Senior Fellow -page 3 


Keith Spatz tries to peddle the last ofthe wares at the Student Saver Store to Montque Headly and Nolanda Hatcher during the store's "Going Outta Business Sale." The close-out sale, held in the base-
American forces step up presence in Mediterranean Sea near Libya 
AMoclated Prc8ll 
WASHINGTON -The United States has ordered its two aircraft battle groups in the Mediterranean Sea southward toward Ubya and notified civilian air traffic officials there the carriers will be conducting flight operations over the next week. 
Pentagon sources said yesterday that the moves in no way presaged any type of military attack on Ubya and that all operations would be conducted in international airspace and waters. 
One official added, however, that the exercise was intended to demonstrate that the United States would not be intimidated by an in­creased Soviet naval presence in the region, nor by Libyan leader Colonel Moammar Khadafy's decision to place his own military forces on alert and to pledge continuing sup­port for Palestinian terrorists. 
"It's a..<;serting the right to passage in international airspace, with plenty of notice to everyone in ad­vance of our peaceful intent," one source said. 
Another source said the flight operations had been approved ear­lier in the week by the National Security Council "as a warning that we're not forgetting these terrorist attacks. We know what Khadafy has done and we want him to know we're prepared to respond." 
A White House official denied reports that the exercise was a deliberate provocation ofKhadafy. 
"Reports that it is a stern message on terrorism are just wrong," the of­ficial said, speaking on condition he not be identified. "It Is not designed to provoke Ubya. We are not flying over the Gulf of Sidra; we are not flying over the Libyan hind ma.ss." 
Another.senior official, comment­ing on an earlier published report that the administration hoped to goad Khadafy into attacking U.S. forces to give the United States an excuse for retaliating, dismissed the suggestion with an expletive. 
"Anyone who says a thing like that doesn't know Ronald Reagan," the source said. "The point is to dis­courage terrorism and keep him guessing about what we might do, not give him an excuse to try it again." 
The United States has accused Libya ofsupporting a Palestinian ter­rorist group suspected of mounting the Dec. 27 attacks on the Rome and Vienna airports, in which 19 people died. Khadafy responded during the first week of january by putting his military forces on alert, claiming the United States was planning an inva­sion. 
The Soviet Union, which supports Libya, responded by increasing its surveillance ofthe U.S. 6th Fleet and by moving two more combat ships into the Mediterranean from the Black Sea, bringing to six the num­ber of Russian combat ships in the region. 
The United States currently has 31 Navy ships in the Mediterranean, of which 20 are combat ships. The combat forces are led by two aircraft carriers -the Coral Sea and Saratoga. The Saratoga joined the Coral Sea just last week. 


ND faculty keep eyes to the skies for view of passing Halley's comet 
ByGREGTUEL 
NeursStaf! 
Several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty members have become involved in the interna­tional stir created by the appearance of Hailey's comet, back after its 76 year hiatus from sight. 
Sightings of the comet started last November and continued throug­hout December and january. 
In Miami, the comet was filmed and broadcast live throughout the world by a crew of scientists Includ­ing Terry Rettig, assistant professor of physics and astronomy at Notre Dame. 
Using newly-developed equip­ment which allowed photographs to be taken at a rate of one every 1/30 of a second, the crew studied the comet for changes ofshort duration, Rettig said. 
"There is not really anything that sets this comet apart from the rest," he said, adding that the history which surrounds"the comet is more unique than the actual comet. 
"It reappears every 76 years, which ties it to a lifetime. And so many interesting things have hap­pened upon Its appearance-empires have fallen, countries have fallen, and rulers have died," Rettig said. 
"There was a long-standing belief that a comet might strike the earth," said Michael Crowe, professor in the graduate program ofhistory and the philosophy of science. "In 1910, people were selling comet pills to protect others from possible Infec­tion carried by the comet. Some scientists speculated about life on the comet, and there were many theories ofwhat it would be like," he said. 
In South Bend, the Michiana 
see COMET, page 6 


Student Saver Store to close its doors today after year of trouble 
By BETH CORNWELL 
StaffReporter 
The Student Saver Store sold its few remaining items yesterday and shut its doors permanently. 
Originally the store was con­ceived as a student alternative to the bookstore, according to manager Keith Spatz. Administrative con­cerns about direct competition bet­ween the two stores resulted in strict restrictions on the Student Saver Store. 
"The proposal (which created the store) put us behind the eight ball to begin with. We couldn't add new items without the approval ofthe ad­ministration," Spatz said. 
"When we wanted to open during the lunch hour, it took four months for the administration to approve the request," he said. 
The store opened at the start of the 1985 spring semester. qom the very beginning, the restricted line of products and a difficult location limited business, Spatz said. 
"When I got here last january, there were already problems," said Spatz. "The school supplies were four days late In arriving because ofa strike, and the beauty Items hadn't even arrived when we opened. 
"The location was trouble. We were on the second floor of LaFortune, but you have to go up three flights ofsteps to get there. No one seemed to know where we were. Of course, there wasn't any passing traffic up there to just stop by, either. By the time we got all the supplies in and the new hours ap­proved, the semester was practically over anyway," he said. 
The renovations of La Fortune created a new problem for the busi­ness. Originally, it was hoped that there would be space in the building for both the student store and Rock du Lac. But early this year the stu­dent business manager, Rob Hoover, was informed that there would be space for only one store. 
"We had to decide which store's existence should be continued. So we chose to try to combine the two. Rock du Lac is being expanded to in­clude some items with a more col­legiate appeal. The new store will sell T-shirts, posters, and maybe some smaller electronics as well as records and tickets," Hoover said. 
"I'm not sorry to see (the Student Saver Store) go. My own personal opinion is that it was all politically motivated. There were so many compromises made in the original proposal that it was doomed before it started. I'd much rather see the money being spent on the record store than on a business not doing well," he said. 
Attempts to reach administr:atlve officials for comment were un­successful. 
Because the record store doesn't have an agreement with the Univer­sity requiring administration ap­proval ofpolicy changes, it has more freedom, Hoover said. 
"The Cellar (the name of the new store) is not under the Student Saver Store proposal. Because we won't be In competition with the bookstore, we can avoid most of the problems encountered by the store," said Hoover. 


Miss USA next stop for Lyons Hall beauty 
By TRIPP BALTZ tiona! hotel. The contestants CopyEdttor were judged upon their per­sonality, beauty and character. Lyons Hall resident. Maureen Besides an evening gown 
McDonnell won the crown of Miss Virginia· in Virginia Beach last weekend. 

Maureen McDonnell 
McDonnell, who transferred to 
·Notre Dame from james Madison University in Virginia after her freshman year, is the first Miss Virginia to attend school out of state. She will go on to the Miss 
U.S.A. Pageant to be held In Miami May 20. 
The junior business major was one ofSO girls chosen from 2,500 applicants to participate in the pageant at the Omnl-Interna­presentation and swimsuit com­petition, the pageant included a discussion session between the judges and participants McDon­nell said was interesting. 

"We went into a room and were supposed to initiate con­versation with them (the judges). It was a little awkward. You didn't know what to ask," McDonnell said. 
When the competition got down to 15 finalists, McDonnell 
· was part of a stage interview In which the judges asked her ques­tions. "I did well there, I knew the questions they asked me," she said. Prizes McDonnell won In the Miss Virginia contest include a fur, a camera, a watch, a luggage set and "some money." She said there are big stakes in the Miss 
U.S.A. Pageant. 
The grand prize in the May contest Is S200,000. The winner Is also given a S I 0,000 ap­
see BEAUTY, page 6 

The Observer Friday, January 24, 1986-page 2
f 
f 
r 
~ 
r 


In Brief 
The John Cardinal O'Hara Award, honoring a 

former Notre Dame student who later served the University in a distinguished capacity, will be awarded this year to Walter Ml Langford ofSan Diego, Calif. The 1930 graduate was a member ofthe Notre Dame faculty from 1931 to 1974 and organized foreign study programs in Central and South America while serving as chairman of the department of modern and classical languages. Langford also or· ganized Notre Dame's participation in Peace Corps training programs. The award was established by the Notre Dame Alumni Association in 1983 to honor the 12th president of the University who later was named cardinal archbishop of Philadelphia. It will be presented to Langford at the 1986 Alumni Reunion in the ACC on June 6. · Tbe Observer 
More than 9,000 auto accidents involving alcohol were reported betweenjanuary and September 1985 by the Indiana State Police. Alcohol was blamed for more than 140 fatalities during the same period. One of the leading misconceptions about driving and alcohol is that a person has to be drunk to be dangerous, accord· ing to the Indiana State Medical Association. Even at alevel of .05 percent blood alcohol content(halfofIndiana's legal limit) a person is twice as likely to have an accident than if driving sober. A report from the American Medical Association's Council on Scientific A.f· fairs indicates alcohol causes deterioration of driving skills begin· ning at .05 percent with deterioration progressing rapidly with rising blood alcohol content until driving skills become seriously impaired at .10 percent. · Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
Mark Torres, a senior preprofessional major at Notre Dame, assumed command of the Army ROTC cadet corps in a change-of-command ceremony held yesterday at Stepan Center. Cadet Torres replaces Alan Perry, who held the position during the first semester. · The Observer 
The Dismas House Student Group will 

hold a reception today from 4 to 6 at the Center for Social Concerns for student applicants, board members and anyone interested in learning more about the program. All are welcome. Aboard meeting will follow.-The Observer 
A Super-Bowl dance party will be held at the 

Saint Mary's Clubhouse tomorrow night from 9 to 12. The cost of admission will be Sl.50. with a 50 cent discount for those with any football jersey. ·The Observer 
lchthus will hold a Christian Fellowship meeting at 6:30 today in the library lounge. All are invited. -The Observer 
A slide showofcontemporary scenes in El Salvador will be presented tonight at 8 and Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Social Concerns. The slide show, produced and as­sembled by Stephen Moriarty, a South Bend photographer and 1969 Notre Dame•graduate, consists of photographs taken by Moriarty during a late December journey through El Salvador. Accompanied by Moriarty's commentary, the slides provide a glimpse ofall classes in Salvadoran societyincludingscenesfrom a Christmas Eve celebra­tion in a refugee camp near San Salvador. Both slides are free and open to the public. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Itain'tNewOrleans, but it will 

be partly sunny today. High in the upper 30s. Cloudy tonight with a 60 percent chance of snow after midnight. Low 25 to 30. A 60 per­cent chance ofsnowpossibly mixed with rain at times tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 30s. 
--Ihe--Obs.----e~~er----­
-. &.-=:Y~ 


Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin Design Assistant..................Alice Kroeger Layout Staff................................ Man Cizek Typesetters ...................................... Pal Clark 
Chuck I.W. Papandrea News Editor................... Cindy Rauckhorst Copy Editor ................................ Tripp Baltz Sports Copy Editor........ Eric Schuermann Spectal Layout...................... Laura Gronek 
Viewpoint Copy Edltor.......... ~uc Uunbar Viewpoint Layout................... Rob Banolo Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moor~ Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin ND Day Editor...................... EUyn Mastako SMC Day Editor................. Maryjean SuUy Ad Deslgn.....................................j~sse Pesta Fr~d Nelson Allison Fahrenhoft Photographer..................... Paul Pahor~sky 

lbe Obsen'er (I'SPS ~99 l ..\0()()) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.lbe Observer is published by the students ofthe I lniversily of Notte Oame and Saint Mary's Collc:ge. Subscriptions may be purchased for S;\0 per year ( JlU per semester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M'\6 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 

r~sr'"V~d. 

Increase in liability lawsuits puts fear into hearts of many 
Some signs are subtle, others flash blue and gold print outside Notre Dame Stadium. 
Obstetricians and surgeons leave their practices. Bartenders refuse to serve drinks. And rollerskating rinks close their doors. 
These are signs offear. Granted, it has not yet reached epidemic proportions. Most people are not awakened by nightmares of liability lawsuits. Yet fear of lawsuits and skyrocketing insurance rates has had a tangible im· pact on our lives, both as Notre Dame students and as future doctors, engineers and lawyers. 
A high school teacher once told me, "You can sue anybody for anything, but you won't always win." Today, more people are suing others for more things than ever before. And some of them are winning. 
Engineering firms may be sued ·when someone is injured using equipment they desjgn, even ifthat equip· ment is used incorrectly. Handgun manufacturers may be sued for damages from a shooting. Even rock stars are vulnerable. Parents of a teenage son who committed suicide filed suit against Ozzy Osbourne last week, claiming his song lyrics in· fluenced their son's decision to shoot himself. 
Why the spread ofliability~·
,, 
suits? U.S. News and Worlc Report traces it to change _...) in law and society. "N• ~' longer is the decisive ques ~ tion whether the party sued · the defendent · negligently harmed someone. The ques­tion now centers on how much the plaintiff ought to be compensated for in­juries."· 
Also, the spread ofliability insurance has led to the at· titude that no one is hurt by law suits except insurance companies. Ofcourse, in reality consumers pick up the bills via increased insurance rates. Not only do we pay more for car insurance, but manufacturers tack in· creased insurance rates onto their prices. 
These hikes in insurance rates can have drastic ef· fects. Ice and roller skating rinks are shutting down or going without insurance because of high rates. Some towns are closing their recreation departments and swimming pools because they cannot afford to pay for insurance. 
Perhaps doctors suffer most from insurance rate hikes. Some doctors leave their practices rather than pay S50,000 a year in malpractice insurance. Others are opting for early retirements, choosing not to risk in· volvement in a malpractice suit. 
"To err is human, to forgive divine," said Alexander Pope in his often-quoted "Essay on Criticism." Humans, however, are not allowed to 'err' today without threat 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
ofa lawsuit, and divine forgiveness is practiced only by those poor suckers who haven't been tempted by million-dollar damage suits. 
No longer are we allowed to make mistakes. En· gineers cannot design machines that will never mal­function, especially ifoperated improperly. One cannot predict the future when manufacturing a product; if a drug approved by the 'FDA and manufactured by a chemical company is later found to be dangerous, can the company really be blamed? 
Increased responsibility for one's own actions is the supposed goal of these law­suits; however, these suits 
can sometimes force us to 
<...~ take responsibility for ot­~ 
~· 
her's actions as well. Damage suits can allow us to blame someone else for

IRIItllho~~~· 
mistakes that traditionally would be considered our own. 
A bartender can be sued if a patron is involved in a drunk driving accident. A homeowner can be sued if someone is injured while trespassing. One woman (unsuccessfully) sued a tobacco company when her husband died ofc~ncer. 
For victims, all this is somewhat attractive. As victims, we can blame our own mistakes on another's supposed negligence, and perhaps pick up some pocket money in the bargain. As (potentially) insured consumers and professionals, we could suffer from higher prices, high insurance rates and unexpected lawsuits. 
Right now, the alcohol policy may be our most tan­gible evidence ofthe fear ofdamage suits. But ifcurrent trends continue, many of us may someday be joining our pre-law friends in court. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
""'Support the 
\Ji' ~!9DEC~tQ!U'~ 
···························~ 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
•
Unltedwau 



The Observer 
Friday, January 24, 1986 -page 3 


Controversial Senior Fellow award to reappear this year after hiatus 

By KATHY BERRY 
News Staff 

The Senior Fellowship Award, which has been riddled with con· troversy in the last two years, will be resurrected this year, according to Senior Class President john Spatz. 
The award is given to a member of the present Notre Dame community who has had an important influence on the senior class. 
"The recipient must have affected the senior class and influenced the prospects ofthe class. It is necessary that the individual upholds the Notre Dame spirit, and works to aug­ment the progression of the school and its philosophies," Spatz said. 
"The individual must also uphold the Christian ideals and morals that are so evident in the Notre Dame community," he said. 
Nominations will be taken sometime in April and voting will follow at a later date. The presenta­tion will take place at the cocktail party during senior week. 
Two years ago the nominating committee refused to allow Harold 
B. Augustine to be put on the award ballot. Augustine was the Notre Dame alumnus noted for h.is saying, "A wet campus is a happy campus." 
"The administration probably thought the student body was making a big joke of the award and consequently withdrew Augustine's name from the ballot," said George Apt, second year Notre Dame M.B.A. student. 
Although William Hickey, Univer­sity food services director, was nominated for the award, said Apt, "The seniors refused to elect anybody Senior Fellow, and no award was given that year. It was basically forgotten." 

The nominating committee's desire to preserve prestige for the award backfired, as there was no Senior Fellow named last year eit­her, he said. 
"We want to revive the award this year because we want to recognize an individual who upholds the Notre Dame ideal, lives his life in Christian fashion, and is a practical example of what we can achieve down the road," said Spatz. 

High school students' contribution 
goes toward cutting national debt 
The Oblervu/Trtpp Baltz 

When Harold B. Augustine was prevented jrvm receiving the an­nual Senior Fellow Award two years ago, seniors voted not to present the award, ending the tradition for the past two years. But this year, students are trying to revive the award. Story at right. 
A8110CiatedPn:88 
DELPHI, Ind. -A SIOO contribu­tion by Delphi Community High School students to help reduce the national debt has received some at· tention on Capitol Hill. 

In a speech on the U.S. Senate floor, Senator Dan Quayle, R-Ind., commended the students for generating grassroots support for a balanced budget. 
"While $100 may not go far toward erasing ... a $2 trillion debt, the energy, spirit and dedication and sense of civic responsibJJity dis­played by these young Hoosiers will do much to secure the future of our nation," Quayle said Tueday. 
The students' teacher, Thomas L. Miller, said Wednesday that ap­proximately 30 students from Car­roll County wanted to become 
involved after studying about the 
federal deficit last fall. 
The students, mostly seniors, or­ganized a group called Students Against Inflated Deficit Spending, or SAIDS, and started a petition drive at the school. They got 313 of their 500 classmates to sign a petition ur­ging Indiana's congressional delega­tion to push for the balanced budget measure. 
The students also raised $1 00 through a raffle they applied toward reducing the federal deficit. 
'The money aspect was simply to draw attention to the petitions," Mil­ler said. "I guess it worked." 

r----------------------------~ 

52929 u.s.31 rlorth
__, ..._...., _____. 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza forSmallPizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delioery Area) 
Offer expires Feb. 2 
277-5880 

L---------~------------------~ 




r.------------------------·I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
Amtrak



~... 
FREE TICKET DELIVERY & PACKAGE EXPRESS PICK UP 
FOR ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS & FACULTY 
SPRINC BREAK PACKACES/SKI PACKACES CROUP DISCOUNTS/WEEKEND PACKAGES 
CALL A FRIEND AT AMTRAK KEN, AL, OR MARV 

288-2212 
11 AM-7 PM DAILY 2702 W. WASHINGTON 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~-•••••••••••••••••••••••r 


The Observer Friday, january 24, 1986-page 4 
Fire in luxury Indian hotel kills 38; one American among the dead 
NEW DELHI, India -Fire raged  
through a luxury hotel before dawn  
yesterday, killing at least 38 people,  
Indian officials said. One American  
was among the dead, and 38 people  
were hospitalized.  
Some victims were found in their  
beds, and others escaped by break­ 
ing windows, tying bedsheets toget­ 
her and lowering themselves to the  
ground. Several leaped to their  
death from the 1 0-story Siddharth  
Continental Hotel, which is near the  
airport in the upper-class Vasant  
Vihar suburb, fire officials said.  
Police and fire officials said it was  
the worst hotel fire in the Indian  
capital since independence from  
Britain in 1947.  
About half the victims were  
foreigners but names were not  
released pending notification of  
relatives, police said. The victims in­ 
r  cluded a West German diplomat and  
r  his wife, an Argentine diplomat,  
r  three Britons, two Japanese, two  
r,  Australians, an Iraqi, a Soviet citizen and the American.  

"It was only by the grace of God we got out alive," said Jane Rosser, an official for the U.S. relief agency CARE, who is based in Bangkok, Thailand. "If I had awakened minutes later in that hotel without lights, I wouldn't be here." 
She said she herded a half-dozen people into a room, smashed open a window and got them to tie bed­sheets together. They lowered themselves about 30 feet and dropped onto a balcony, then groped their way to a fire escape. 
"I knew that when I opened the door and gulped the smoke I would be dead if I didn't act. I must have done what I had seen in the movies," Rosser, a native of Newton, Mass., said. 
She told the Associated Press she heard no fire alarm, the hotel lights were out, and there were no auxiliary lights marking emergency exits on the fifth floor where she stayed. She also said there was no working sprinkler system, the win­dows wouldn't open, and she saw no one organizing rescue operations. 
A spokesman in New York for 




SATURDAY 
"'CHANTZ"' A great band from 
I.U. plus... 75c Molsen Drafts!! 
FO"' CLUB RENTALS CALL: 


C:~~~B~R~Y~A~N~D~E~D~R~I~C~K~~2~8~3~-1~0~69~==23=9=-7=5=2~1~~ 

CARE said Christopher Roesel, 3 7, of Alexandria, Va., a technical adviser stationed in Bangkok, was hospi­talized in serious condition from smoke inhalation. 
An American identified by a hospi­tal source as Richard Arnell was seriously injured. No further in­formation was immediately available. 
Police filed preliminarycharges of negligence against the management ofthe five-star hotel, which is owned by the Siddharth Intercontinental chain of India but is not affiliated with the worldwide Intercontinen­tal chain. 
A judicial inquiry was ordered· into the blaze and safety measures at the hotel, which had about 190 guests. Many guests said they never heard a fire alarm and groped their way in the dark through blistering heat and dense, acrid smoke. 

APPhoto 
Police andfireman rescued guests from a fire that raged through the Siddharth Intercontinental Hotel in New Delhi earlyyesterday morning. Atleast34people were killed and 70 injured in the blaze. See left. 
"But on Sunday,four bottles of Coke®cost only$1.00!' 

Call DOMINO'S PIZZA® 
for Sunday's special­

four 16-oz. bottles of 
Coke® for only $1.00 

with any order. 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from Domino's Pizza. Made to order and deliv­ered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And. on Sunday, get four servings of Coke® for only $1.00 with your order. 
Just ask for Sunday's spe­cial. Available all day this Sunday ... only from Domino's Pizza. 
Call us: 277-2151 1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request the Sunday special. Limited delivery· area. © 1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

DOMINO'S PIZZA 


DELIVERS® ®FREE. 

The Observer Friday, january 24, 1986-page 5 

ND concerned abou~ nearing Philippine election 

Corazon Aquino Uf8es continued pressure on Ferdinand Marcos for a clean election. The presidential candidate called Marcos an 
Hesburgh to celebrate special Mass for peaceful Philippine elections 
ByJOE MARKEY Ceremonies during.the Mass will in· Citizens Movement for Free Elec­News Staff elude a blessing of the American, tions (NAMFREL), a non-partisan Philippine, Indiana, Notre Dame, citizens group committed to the res­
Pea(·eful and fair elections in the Papal and Diocesan flags and a bless­toration of democratic institutions Philippines will be the intention of a ing of the "free election" candles. in the Philippines. special Mass to be celebrated Mon­
The controversial elections, pit· 
Tantoco is active in NAMFREL inday at 5: I 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart 

ting incumbent President Ferdinand 
the Michiana region. Locally theChurch. 

Marcos against Corozan Aquino are 
movement is concerned with con­

"We all want honest, fair and 
scheduled to take place on February 
ducting public informationpeaceful elections in the 7. 

programs on economic and socio­political developments in the Philippines," said Delores Tantoco, 

chieforganizer of the Ma..tis. Tantoco Tantoco emphasized that Mon­Philippines, according to Tantoco.
is a native of the Philippines and day's Mass will be non-partisan. "We librarian at Notre Dame Memorial are all working for peace and not It also encourages Filipinos and Ubrary. celebrating a partisan mass," she others to write appeals to ap­
l'ather Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­said. propriate officials about their con­versity president, will celebrate the At the Mass, a special collection cern for democratic processes in the Mas.~ and give the homily. will be taken for the National Philippines, she said. 
ND professor, librarian assess current situation 
ByJOE MARKEY He explained that the opposition News Staff candidates are not necessarily any more reliable than the incumbent 
The upcoming Philippine president but have gained support presidential election, drawing by merely being anti-Marcos. worldwide attention because of the "The nation is in great disarray," challenge it presents to the Marcos said Moody. Many people blame the regime, also has drawn considerable wretched state of the economy on notice on the Notre Dame campus. possible embezzlement of govern­
ment funds by Marcos, according to 
The plight of the Philippine Moody.
people as a result of Marcos' al­legedly repressive reign should be "Things can possibly work them­noticed, and solutions found, ac­selves out," Moody said. He main­
cording to Delores Tantoco, native tained, however, that the situation In of the Philippines and librarian at the Philippines Is desperate. Notre Dame Memorial library. "Rationally speaking, a recovery Is hard to see" no matter who Is presi· "There are thousands of Filipinos 
dent, said Moody. 
who are suffering. Many retired people are not getting their pen­There is a definite communist sions and some who worked in threat within the Philippines, ac­
government offices are being cording to Moody. There has been a suspended for false accusation," she guerrilla movement since about said. ' 1968 and the last few years have 
Marcos has been accused of been extremely vicious. The move­human rights violations and other ment now has an army of about violations of international law for a 1,500 soldiers, Moody said. number of years. According to 
If Marcos is reelected, then it is
Professor Peter Moody, director of likely that the Philippines will con­
Asian Studies at Notre Dame, the as­tinue to fall into inner turmoil and
sassination of opposition candidate conflict, according to Moody.
Benigno Aquino two years ago as he returned from exile was a rallying 
Corazon Aquino has said that if point for opposition against the 
she is elected she intends to put government. 
Marcos on trial for human rights violations.
When the Aquino assassination United States relations with the case was brought to court, witnesses Philippines are "pretty close," saidtestified that they saw members of Moody. The U.S. presently gives aid the Philippine Army commit the as­to the Philippines and holds a "fairsassination, explained Moody. 
amouunt" of investments there, he said. Two major American military
This resulted in the trial of bases are located In the Philippines
Philippine General Ver and 25 other as well. 
Philippine soldiers. Marcos ac­quitted all these men. The 
U.S. companies operating in the Philippine people were outraged at 
Philippines include American the president and the courts on ac­
Express International, Bank of count ofthe acquittal. 
America, Coca-Cola, Du Pont, Exxon Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino, 
Chemical, IBM, Nabisco, and Proc­is running against Marcos in the 
tor and Gamble. coming elections. 
Despite the United States' fairly 
Moody said that he doubts whet· close relations with the Philippines, her Aquino will be able to do anyth­however, the U.S. government's an­ing productive other than rid the tagonism toward the Marcos regime Philippines of the Marcos regime. is increasing, according to Moody. 


Let's Ialk Careers! 

First National Bank of Omaha is hosting a reception. 
Monday, January 27, 1986 

7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
Morris Inn Alumni Room 

First National Bank of Omaha is an innovative, aggressive leader among financial institutions in Nebraska. Established in 1863, today we offer a wider range of services to people and businesses across the country than any other financial institution in the area. • 
We1l be on campus interviewing Tuesday, February 18, 1986, and we'd like to introduce ourselves before that date. Our representatives will be available Monday, January 27, 1986, to talk to you about First National Bank of Omaha and the opportunities available with a strong and growing regional banking power. We look forward to meeting you! 

first national tx:Jnk 


ofomaha 
an equal opportunity employer 

The Observer Friday, january 24, 1986-page 6 



Chanting spectators encourage 
-


Purdue Nude Olympics athletes 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. Thousands of spectators chanting anti-administration slogans lined up early Wednesday morning to watch as more than 100 Purdue University students threw caution to the wind to join in the recently banned annual "Nude Olympics" race. 
Two students were arrested and scores face disciplinary action ran­ging from probation to expulsion, campusofficials said later in the day. 
Extreme cold temperatures during last year's run around Cary Quad prompted Purdue President Steven Beering to ban the event this year. This time, however, the tem­perature was a relatively mild 38 degrees. 
At least 20 plainclothes campus police officers attempted to stop the nude runners, but policeonly netted two arrests. 
Police Chief)ohn Woods was the only known casualty, according to 
Joe Bennett, director of university relations. 
"Police were routinely stopping runners and getting names," Bennett said. "One runner refused to do that and he bolted and ran into Woods. The two fell and there was a pileup." 
As Woods tried to get up, Bennett said, one runner in the pileup took a swing at the police chief. Woods suf­fered cutsand bruises, Bennettsaid. 
Robert Pritchard, 19, was arrested for assaulting the police officer. The other student, whose name was not immediately available, was arrested for public intoxication and resisting law officers, Bennett said. 
Meanwhile, police and residence hall supervisors were busy later Wednesday compiling names ofpar­ticipants in the run. 
"Disciplinary measures will be on a case-by-case basis," Bennett said. "The people who are going to be dis­ciplined will receive notice in writing" in about a week. 
One spectator, Sandy Eulitt, 23, said she came from Fort Wayne to watch the race. Eulitt, who ran two years ago, said a friend called about 8 
p.m. Tuesday and told her the run was scheduled. 
"I don't really care what Beering says," said runner Andy Banta, 20. "I ran to have some fun. It's something different to do. It's not really as cold as the past few years." 
Beering was asleep during the race, which began about midnight, according to a man who answered the telephone at Deering's home. 
The university president said later in the day that violation of the ban would not be taken lightly. 
School officials also are consider­ing disciplinary measures against 1i male students who staged another nude run Sunday night. They raced around the outside of Owen Hall dorm, said floor senator Pat Bobillo, a junior who· said he was in the group. 


Indiana mother and four children victims of mobile trailer home fire 
GARY, Ind. -A woman and four children died yesterday morning when fire swept through their mobile home in Gary, authorities said. 
Detective William Burns, a spokesman for the Gary Police Department, said the mobile home was engulfed in flames when firefighters arrived at the scene and that officials did not know im­mediately that anyone was inside. 
"There had been no activity seen 

Comet 
continuedfrom page 1 
Astronomical Society sponsored a comet watch program from Novem­ber through January in Saint Patrick's Park. 
Many people saw the comet, ac­cording to Robert Ernst, planetarium director of Mishawaka. 
Ernst  described  the  comet  as  a  
"fuzzy  star,"  when  viewed  with  
binoculars.  


Beauty 
continuedfrom page 1 
pearance contract, a car, a boat, jewelry and a wardrobe for ap­pearances, and a 5-year supply of cosmetics, according to McDonnell. 
McDonnell will leave for Miami in late April to prepare for the big con­test. A state director has assumed the role of her contact and will help get her ready for the May pageant. McDonnell will be speaking with him frequently throughout the semester. 
She will go home during spring 
around the trailer fur the last few days," Burns said. "No one actually knew there was anyone inside. They (the firefighters) were just trying to fight the fire." 
Burns identified the victims as Bethann Spriggs, 24, and her four children: Charles, 3; Kenneth Jr., 2; and 9-month-old twins, Brian and Brandy, a girl. 
It was the second major mobile home fire in the state within eight days. On Jan. 15 four children died in a similar blaze in Livonia in sout­hern Indiana. 
"This was a fairly dim comet, best viewed in the Southern Hemi­sphere," Ernst said. 
Because ofthe less-than-ideal con­ditions and the few opportunities to view it, many people have not ac­tually been able to see Halley's comet, he said. 
A group of physicists discussed the comet and a computer program that mapped its trajectory, said Joseph Bellina, assistant professor of physics at Saint Mary's . .!!But, as it turned out, none of them had ac­tually seen the comet," Bellina said. 
break to fulfill the duties of Miss Vir­ginia. These include being in parades, doing promotions, and making other appearances. Her director will also be helping her with forms and pictures. "But I don't want to go back and forth all the time," she said. 
McDonnell hopes to pursue a marketing career after she graduates. During the summer, she models at her home in Alexandria. "I'd like to model if it comes," she said. "Modeling is fun and it pays 
well. But it's unsteady." 
The twins were round in the front of the home, which suffered the brunt ofthe fire damage, and the ot­hers were in a back bedroop:~., Burns said. 
"Apparently they (the twins) were asleep on some type of sofa bed, at least that's what we assume. The two 9-month-olds were burned beyond recognition. 
"The heavy concentration of fire was in the front of the trailer and it appeared it could have started in the kitchen area or the living room," Bums said. 
The chances ofviewing the comet again this year are slim, according to the experts. The comet will reap­pear in late February, but it will be only viewable just prior to sunrise, Ernst said. 
To see Halley's comet before the light of the sun prevents i,t ,"you must be high enough to see very low in the South-eastern horizon, about one half-hour before sunup," he said. Also, the viewer must wait for the two-week period between new and full moon, and hope for a clear mor­ning, Ernst said. 
McDonnell's parents are elated about their daughter's success. "My dad was stunned. He's kind of strict about education. But when he heard the news, he was stunned," McDon­nell said. "My mom was so happy. She handled everythinikeeping in touch with the officials of the pageant." 
The new Miss Virginia is looking forward to the pageant in Miami. "I'm so psyched. I can't wait to go to Miami," said McDonnell. "I had so much fun last weekend. I just can't wait." 

The Obocrvcr/Paul Pahornky

Pump it up! 
Seniorjoseph Creely listens for Freshman David Ragan's pulse during the Center for Social Concerns Festival yesterday in the CSC Building. 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 

(More than 40 items to choose from) FREE Delivery from 5pm • Midnight 
272-5455 


mitt <ttnlouial lfaurakt llfnust $1.00 OFF 



OUR SPECIALTY OVEN-BAKED APPLEPANCAKES 
With This Ad
OR 


OMLETTE 
Limit 1 per person
LJ .S. 31 North m Roseland IA~:ro..s from rhe Holida\· Inn) 272-7433 Good through February 

p 




Accent 
Friday,January 24, 1986-page 7 

We are all part of Martin Luther King's dream 

Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely God 
n Monday night television, on a
0 program in honor of Martin Luther King's birthday, a small army of black performers paid tribute to the great civil rights leader. As each one finished, he or she declared with pride: "And lam part ofhis dream." Hearing the refrain repeated set me to thinking: "l too am part of his dream." 
King's dream was one ofblacks and whites together in brotherhood and sisterhood, living In peace, equals as Americans and as the children of God. He dreamed of freedom for the down-pressed and the victims of injustice. This could only come true if the oppressors themselves underwent a change of heart which would free them from hatred, fear, and the slavery to prejudice. 
He had seen the red-necked sheriffs willing to let the police dogs loose against the demonstrators on the streets of Selma. He dreamed of them halting such horrors, delivered ofthe ugli· ness in their souls which made their behavior uncivilized, cruel and obS<.·ene. lie dreamed of arousing Americans to righteous anger over the humiliations imposed as a lifestyle on black America. He 
dreamed ofstirring all ofus out of 
the indifference which tolerated 
children, white and black, going to 
bed hungry. 
His dream was as big as America's dream of itself as the home ofthe brave, the land ofthe free. Whether we liked him or not, his dream Included you and me. He was a patriot who believed in the Con­stitution. He died for keeping us honest about the promises that the Constitution made to all ofthe people ofthe country. He did us a favor by confronting us with the racial bigotry which is our national sin. 
Monday night, as I turned off the television and went to the chapel to say Mass, I kept realizing, "I'm part ofhis dream." At Mass, I spoke a few words about what it felt like to live through the '60s, during the heyday of the civil rights movement, when we watched the confrontations and demonstrations every night on television. I remember my old Irish mother saying (with singular in­sight, I thought): "IfI had been created black, I think I might hate God for a.I.lowing me to suffer so much." 
King didn't hate God or teach his people to hate God. When he died, the students had another civil rights song to add to "We Shall Overcome." It was Abraham, Mar­tin, and John: "Has anybody here seen my old friend Abraham?" Later, Robert Kennedy's name was added to those of his brother, Lincoln and King. America's dream, in that ter­rible decade ofthe Vietnam War, had a lot ofsadness in it. A student became very angry when we sang "America the Beautiful" in church, because it seemed such a mockery ofeverything. 
Alot of us coould have stood beside Harry Belafonte and Bill Cosby to say: "I am part ofhis dream." Our saying it wouldn't mean we were just trying to climb on a popular bandwagon. Years ago, Tom Wolfe wrote "Radical Chic" to make fun of Leonard Bernstein and his wife, entertaining the Black Panthers in their fashionable Park Avenue apartment. I could never be called "radical chic" for being grate­ful to Dr. King for including me in his great vision. 
Now those ofus who believed in King have visions ofour own. I like seeing blacks at Notre Dame; like everyone else, I wish there were more of them. Fifty years ago, Notre Dame didn't admit blacks. The University president of those days is quoted in his biography as saying Notre Dame was not ready to admit blacks, because ofthe large number ofSoutherners alrady here. They might decide to drop out, and go to state colleges, he said, where they could hurt their souls. Father Hes­burgh has brought us a long way from those narrow days ofthe Cat­holic ghetto. 
I have a dream ofblacks enrich­ing the Catholic Church by becoming members in large num­bers; they would bring us someth­ing very special called "soul." The nation was exposed to the power of "soul" at Dr. King's funeral; "soul" is alive and well today in the great black singers and in the style ofthe Rev. Jesse Jackson when he speaks. 
Maybe, as Catholics, we read too much St. Paul. A great minister at Boston talked about his grandmot­her, a former slave. "When I would go to see her as a seminary stu· dent," he said, "she would ask me to read her the Bible, except she never wanted to hear St. Paul. Every Sun­day, during slavery days, the master would read his workers the lines from St. Paul: 'Slaves be subject to your masters.' Maybe the Pope could invent a liturgy which puts St. Paul on the back burner. I'IJ! sure women would bless him for doing it. 
I have a dream that when I watch the local news in New York, I will not see a disproportionate number ofyoung blacks in handcuffs being led to jail. The cities are very hard on black kids brought up in filth and poverty. "A mind is a terrible thing to waste." Yet even after King, the waste goes on. 
Please God, there is now some hope. The black messiah died nearly 20 years ago. Harlem, I would guess, is as ugly as ever. Kids, who should have become lawyers, doctors and astronauts, never get a chance. They're dead from violence and drugs before they reach 16. 
Blacks blame whites, like the president, for not helping them. Whites blame blacks for not helping themselves. Who is to blame? When the children are dying, why bother to ask who is to blame? The ques­tion should be "Who can help?" 
Dreams don't come like movies, In color, or In black and white. Dreams, if they are worthy of humanity, come as visions oftlesh and blood. All ofus, as Americans, are asked to be parents to a genera­tion with racial diversities, a rain· bow coalition ofurchins and moppets. Every child in danger is my responsibility. Who is that child, shown stabbed to death by a maniac, pictured in the paper? It's my precious lamb. The death is the beginning of my nightmare. 
People in every generation have to dream Martin Luther King's dream after him; as Christians, we are candidates. Ifwe don't dream the dream, and work to make it come true, we are doomed to relive the nightmares which ruin America as the Promised Land. 


Higher goals for the Irish as they prepare for Miami 
These are thf' 14th and 15th episodes in The Obsen•er's serial publication ofthe Notre Dame football story, 'The Gipper's Ghost. "In last week's episode, victories over Stanford and Pittsburgh had raised the record ofthe surprising Fighting Irish to 3-1-1, and the Notre Dame campus had renewed its legendary spirit as the game against No.4 Miami loomed ahead. 
Kelly's promise­
"The Fighting Irish ofNotre Dame ... your Fighting Irish ... plan to win every game the rt:'st of the sc.·ason. Your Fighting Irish will win a bid to a major bowl game. Your Fight­ing Irish will finish this season ranked among the top I 0 teams in the nation." 
The Glpper's Gho~ 
Chapters 14& 15 W 
lie stopped for just a slight moment. 
"And we are going to start that victory 
march tomorrow by upsetting Miami for 
you in our stadium!" 
It was almost too much for the win­starved Notre Dame student body. The band, recognizing a good cue when it heard one. instantly played the Victory March. 
The crowd was besides itself. Coach 
Kelly had not only said it, he sounded like 
he meant it. 
In turn, Collins. O'Connor and Lee took 
centerstage and delivered rousing pep talks. 
O'Connor stole the show with his impres­
sion of Ronald Reagan doing George Gipp. 
An older Holy Cross priest was overheard 
to say it rivaled Pat O'Brien's rendition of 
K.nute Rockne. 


God only knows 
T 
hings are going rather well, K.nute. Why do you need My help?': said the voice of God. 
"Well. I know how much you enjoy a good practical joke, Lord," Rockne said. "I thought you'd want to be in on the fun." 
"Hmmm. Well ... it could be very funny. I'll do it!" 
"Thanks, Lord." 
Rockne caught the early morning rainbow back to Indiana. He was glad the planning session had gone well. Everything goes a little better with God's help, he thought. 


Football Saturday 
T 
he Golden Dome blazed in sunlight 
against the backdrop ofan unclouded 
brilliant blue sky. Perfect weather for a 
football weekend. 

This morning, northern Indiana had bedecked itself in its best autumn clothes. The trees were turning. Red, gold, and brown leaves blended well with the yellow­buff bricks of the buildings ofNotre Dame. 
walkways. Sales ofhot dogs, hamburgers, bratwurst and soda pop were brisk. A favorite stop was the Knights ofColumbus concession, ~enowned for its steak sandwiches. 
The oldest buildings were actually derived from the Indiana earth; rich marl deposits in St. Mary's Lake had yielded enough raw materials to allow the University to produce its own bricks and mortar. 
Sedan, vans, and recreational vehicles streamed from the exit ramps ofthe Indiana Toll Road. Uniformed South Bend police and Indiana state troopers kept traffic flowing smoothly as the sons and daughters ofNotre Dame returned for a weekend visit. 
On campus, various student groups commenced setting up outdoor grills, yellow saworses and blue tabletops at choice locations along the busiest 
The most popular place ofall was the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The first 
floor was alive with two colors· gold and 
blue. The merchandise sparkled; the staff 
had started dusting offthe inventory after 
the Pitt victory and the job was now almost 
complete. T-shirts, caps, jackets, pennants, 
collectors' plates, coffee mugs and various 
carried the words "Notre Dame" or bore 
the famous leprechaun, with his upraised 
fists, or the familiar NO monogram. 
Books could be found on the second 
floor, if one was willing to climb the stairs. 
Outside, bedsheet banners hung 
everywhere. One urged the Irish to weat· 
her the Hurricanes. One draped from a 
Sorin Hall turret offered an encouraging 
"Go Irish!" Still another, handing from the 
Administration Building, addressed a 
special audience, "Dear Alumni, send 
money." At first the alumni passing by 
thought it was a joke, then, realizing it hung ·from the window of the development 
office, knew better. 
As morning turned to afternoon, the women of Saint Mary's began wandering over in groups along the service road which led them past Holy Cross Hall and St. Mary's Lake to the center ofcampus. 
The unofficial opening of the football game was the band's pre-game outdoor concert. An hour or so before the kickoff, the band assembled on the front steps of the Administration Building. The show served as a final full-dress rehearsal for the halftime performance. Tonight's program was titled "An Irish Celebration," and an appreciative audience applauded perfor­mances of the Minstrel Boy, Foggy Dew, and The Garryowen. 
Near the conclusion of the program, the band announcer intoned, "... and now we invite you to join in as the Band of the Fighting Irish plays the greatest ofall fight songs: The Notre Dame Victory March!" 
Immediately afterward, in the light of the setting sun, the faithful began the proces· sion to Notre Dame Stadium. 
To be continued ... 
From "The Gipper's Ghoot," copyrll!ht 1985 by Roben Quackenbush. Publilhed by O'Connor PubU.shlnR Co. Reprlntc:c.J by permission. 





~i~~~_{)__i_Il__t__________________F_rid-~._Ja-nu-ary-24_,1_98_6_-pa-ge-8
,r 
' r 
'
r 
Writer just here doin' the Super Bowl Shuffle 

~ 
Yes, it is that time of the year again. The 20th annual rite of the Super Bowl has captured America one more time. The hype and excitement has already started so even the most casual fan will pay close attention to this Sunday's activities in New Orleans. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 

These games are rarely super; neither will they bowl you over. Yet the whole spectacle of the event takes the country by storm, oc­cupying approximately five hours of the lives ofAmericans who generally have nothing bet­ter to do with their time. 
This year our campus has been blessed with the presence ofthe Chicago Bears in the Super Bowl. The Chicago contingent is louder this year than they were last year when the Cubs choked. But please tell me, how many ofus are sick and tired of the Fridge and psuedo-hip quarterbackJim McMahon? 
We the people of America have been vic­timized by an unprecedented media barrage about the Bears. It is not over yet. Just think if they win the Super Bowl. The Fridge may run for President. 
New England suffers from the anonymity which we all hope would affiict Chicago. The Patriots are the surprise team of the year and possibly the decade. Who would have ex­pected that the place that gave 05 dam chow­der would produce a championship-caliber football team? 
Back to the campus. It is easy to distinguish the Bears fans from the Patriot fans. The Bear fans chug, go' unshaven and believe jim McMahon is the Second Coming. Patriot fans sip, wear argyles and really hope that their team plays a good game. 
OK, enough about the participants. What is really important is the pre-game hype (the most overused word in sports history). All that matters is what happens before the game ~here we learn everything from the punter's favorite childhood activity to the trainer's concern over the libyan crisis. 
The key, naturally, is to see how high up we can build the game. It is World War III. It is the toughest defense against the best offense and ofcourse the same applies to both teams. 
Each team sits atop an unattainable pedes­tal. Then each team proceeds to play average­to-good football for 60 minutes, which is inexplicably stretched into four hours, and everyone sits back and wonders why they got so excited the whole week. 
Could we do without all of the excitement and hype of Super Bowl week? Would our lives be complete? Probably so. However, would we have as much fun without it? Probably not. The whole concept ofthe Super Bowl and all that surrounds it is a vital piece of modern Americana. It is something that belongs solely to America and is an important part of our lifestyle. Despite the commer­cialism and the overpublicity, the main in­gredient of Super Sunday is there, and that is fun. 
By the way, I hope I did not offend anyone' with my comments on the Bears and Patriots because I did not write this to cause no trouble, I'm just here doin' the Super Bowl Shume. 
Brian Broderick is a sophomore govern­ment major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 




Learned most critical lessons outside of school 

After one semester in law school, my head is swimming in new knowledge. I feel I've learned as much in the past four months as I did in the previous four years. But, as always, I think the most important things I've learned have been outside the classroom. 
Mike Wllkins 
here, there and back 

I've always been a strong believer in the idea that you go to collegefor two reasons: to get an education and to learn. The education I received at Notre Dame, and continue to receive in law school, .iii one of the finest anywhere. More importantly, the things I've learned here -things that were not taught to me in any classroom-have changed who I am and who I will be.. 
I already had to summarize the education I received over the last semester in order to inake it through final exams. But I think it's important to summarize the other things I have learned in my first semester of law school. • 
• Not everyone here is a 22-year-old single student with nothing more important to worry about than whether or not he's going to be prepared for class the day he's called on. 
Law students are different from what I'm used to. Many ofthem are older and several of them are married and supporting families of their own. For someone who has spent the past four years in one of the most homogeneous environments one can create, this was a tough lesson to learn. 
About two weeks into classes, I became at­tracted to a girl in several of my classes. After much debate, I talked myself into asking her out. As luck would have it, one day we were walking out to the parking lot together. 1 started small talk, hoping to steer the con­versation in the direction of a possible date. 
We were talking about the neighborhoods we lived in and I recognized the name ot her neighborhood as being uncommonly nice for a student's residence. Being someone in­nocent and having not yet learned my first les­son in law school, I asked her if she lived alone, expectng that she would say she lived with her parents or was renting a room in a house. I was terribly embarrassed (and more than a little disappointed) when she said she lived with her husband. My first lesson was quick, but far from painless. 


• There is life beyond the friendly confines of the Golden Dome. 
-
This is an extension of the first thing I learned. As an undergraduate, I was so wrapped up in my studies and other student­type activities that I often forgot there were other people out there besides Domers, alumni, professors, sports opponents and SMC chicks. But this year I have more interaction with "real people" and I'm frequently reminded ·that not everything I do has to revolve around Notre Dame. 
Luckily, I've been able to get involved with something that has no connection with school whatsoever. I'm helping to coach a high school hockey team in South Bend and I'm having the time ofmy life doing it. First ofall, it makes me feel the way I did when I used to play. I've missed that feeling very much but now it makes me look forward to going out to the rink for every practice and every game, even though coaching takes a lot oftime away from my studies. 
More importantly, I can actually see these kids learning the things 'I've tried to teach them. One of the nicest things that happened to me this year was when the mother ofone of my players came up to me and told me she could see that her son had improved since I had worked with him. That's the kind of reward I can't get from studying. 
• There's nothing like a good rumor (or a bad one, for that matter). 
I've never had more fun at Notre Dame than the short time between when Gerry Faust resigned and when Lou Holtz was named new football coach. I've heard hundreds ofrumors in my years here, but never have the rumors flown as freely as this past fall. 
The problem with a rumor is that it is only good until the next one comes along. Unfor· tunately, many people (including the local news media) aren't aware of this. If we had judged"rumors based on which ones sounded the most believable, Dick Vermeil would now be head coach and would be living comfor­tably in a newly carpeted house somewhere in Knollwood. The way to deal with rumors is to uncover as many as you possibly can and believe the last one you've heard until the truth finally comes out. 
• Above all else, keep everything in perspective. 
This is another lesson that was particularly hard to learn, even though it had been taught to me once already. During finals, when stu­dents tend to lose all grasp on reality, I came back to earth with a thud. A very good friend of mine was seriously injured in an auto acci­dent and came as close to death as I would ever want to come. 
Something like that tends to give you a dif­ferent perspective on things: as I lay in bed before my last final, I prayed that my friend would be OK instead of praying that I would pass my exam the next morning. Many things besides Contracts went through my mind that night. I remembered how important my friends are to me and how much I take them for granted. I realized that worse things could· happen to me than flunking out oflaw school and that no matter how bad the morning's test went, things were going a helluva lot worse for many people. 
I learned this lesson once before and, like Sociology of Sport or Russian Civ., I forgot it. I'd like to think that I'm smarter now and that I won't make the same mistake twice. Hope­fully, this time I won't forget what I've learned. 
Mike Wilkins is a first-year law student at Notre Dame. 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 








A watery grave 

Lakes are final rest for church statues 
MARY REYNOLDS 
features writer 
E 
ver wonder where a religious 
statue goes when it dies? It 
doesn't go to heaven. At Notre 
Dame it is more than likely that, 
when a religious statue becomes 
old and worn, it goes to the bottom 
ofSt. Joseph's or St. Mary's Lake. 
According to Father Daniel R. 
Jenky, rector ofSacred Heart 
Church, the Sacred Heart com­
munity has heen using the lakes to 
dispose ofhroken and worn statues 
since the 19th century. "It's a well­
known fact in the Sacred Heart 
community that there are a lot of 
things at the bottom ofthe lakes," 
Jenky said. 
When holy objects are disposed 
of they must be burned, buried or 
submerged in water. "We wouldn't 
just toss out something that's been 
used for worship or in church," 
Jenky said. The objects are made 
unusable and "reverently disposed 
of' as a means ofshowing respect 
for them. 
All flammable objects, such as 
vestments and altar linens, are 
burned. "A couple times a year we 
have a huge bonfire," Jenky said. 
Objects that can't be burned are thrown into one of the two lakes. "We do it at times when nobody is around," Jenky said. He described the process as reverent, although not ceremonious. 
The disposal of the statues is usually performed by the sacristans, or by maintenance workers ifthe statue is larger. Occasionally a job is even too large for maintenance. The one-ton statue ofjesus and Mary which was recently removed from the Grotto after sustaining damage in the September fire last semester is currently sitting in storage until maintenance figures out how it should be disposed. "We don't have the equipment to handle a statue of that size," Donald Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant, said. 
The statues that are disposed of are usually broken. "We don't throw out much," saidjenky. "Nothing of historic or artistic value is thrown out." 
Nothing ofvalue is cast away. that is, except for the gold crown lying at the bottom ofSt. Mary's Lake. It seems that in the early 19205 the crown, which an early issue of Scholastic magazine describes as "a crown ofsolid gold, studded with precious stones and inlaid with pearls," was dumped into St. Mary's Lake. 

Nothing of value is cast away, that is, except for the gold crown lying at the bottom of St. Mary's Lake. 
The crown was given to Notre Dame in 1866 as a gift from the Empress Eugenic, wife ofNapoleon III, emperor of France. It was originally put on display in the church. 
Eventually the crown was removed and it passed into obscurity for several years. In 1886 two crowns were stolen from the church and it was feared that the Eugenic crown was among them. In time, however, the crown turned up at St. Micheal's Laundry, where it apparently had been sent for safe keeping after the theft ofthe other two crowns. 
Years passed, and the crown was placed in the attic of Holy Cross seminary. The crown was then forgotten for several years. 
The crown later reappeared as a prop for the annual Christmas play at the seminary. By then, the semi­narians had no idea ofthe crown's value. The crown continued to be used as a prop in Washington Hall and local South Bend plays. 
Over the years the condition of the crown declined until finally it was dropped and shattered. Even­tually the crown was thrown out and subsequently was dumped into St. Mary's Lake. The mistake was not discovered by the University until several years later. 
.. 
'Ibe exact value of the crown is not known. The exact location of the crown is also unknown, al­though a Scholastic magazine dating from the early 1950s states, "it is thought to be along the shore ofSt. Mary's Lake near the Old College," since that area was used for dum­ping during the University's early days. 
Somewhere In the mud ofSt. Mary's Lake, the crown still sits. Scuba diving, anyone? 

r Happenings-page 2 Friday, January 24, 1986 

C 
allers to Hammond, Ind., City 
Courtjudge Peter Katie's · 
private line are getting the judge's 
own version ofthe "Super Bowl 
Shuffie" from his answering 
machine. 
Katie borrowed the tune ofthe 
Chicago Bears' "Super Bowl 
Shuffie" video, which will be broad­
cast Jan. 24 on "Friday, Night 
Videos," and adapted it to his 
answering machine. 
It goes like this: 
"Hammond City Court, pork and 
beans. 
I'm flying out to New Orleans. 
Leave your name, number and a 
message, too. 
The travel agent will get back to 
you. 
Leave your message when you 
hear the tone. 
Cause I'll be at the Super Bowl 
dome. 
I'm not trying to start no trouble. 
I'm just here to do the Super 
BowlShuffie." 
Word of Katie's message has spread as he has averaged 300 calls a day since he first began using it last week. 
Katie said he used "pork and beans" in the first line because "it rhymes with New Orleans" and also because it refers to a nationally publicized canned food drive for the needy he headed recently. 
A national magazine referred to Katie as the judge who collects pork and beans. 
The Super Bowl will be televised live Sunday from New Orleans when the Chicago Bears compete against the New England Patriots. 
Burge leads 'A Chorus Line' 
Associated Pre88 
T 
hese days Gregg Burjl;e is dancing in double time. 
On Broadway, he earns cheers nightly in "Song and Dance," the Andrew lloyd Webber musical starring Bernadette Peters. On film, he leaps across the screen and steals it in the movie version of"A Chorus Line." 
At the age of 27, Burge may be the best dancer now on Broadway. He's a performer knowg for his exuberance, a quality that shows in every step he takes. 
"I really do enjoy dancing, on top of the fact that it is my career," says Burge, sitting in his spartan dressing room at the Royale Theater where "Song and Dance" is currently playing. "That's where the energy comes from." 
"Song and Dance" tells the story of an English girl, played by Miss Peters, who looks for love in New York and Los An-geles. The first act is all song, the second all dance, and that's where Burge shines. He plays what he describes as "a guard-ian angel" who looks after the musical's hero, Joe, a nice guy from Nebraska who comes to New York and falls in love with Miss Peters. 
The dances in the musical were choreographed by Peter Martins, who along with Jerome Robbins co-directs the New York City Ballet. Martins required that all the dan· cers in "Song and Dance" have strong classical training. 
"He had auditioned a lot of them but many ofthe Broad way dancers didn't meet his level oftechnique which is classic ballet," Burge says. 
Broadway dancing is not classical ballet and in order to successfully blend the twoin "Song and Dance," Martins relied on Burge's expertise in musical theater. It is an expertise honed during long runs in such musical hits as "The Wiz," in which he played the Scarecrow for three years, and "Sophisticated Ladies," the Duke Ellington tribute that had him tapping on stage with Gregory Hines. 
"Peter didn't have any ex­perience in tap," Burge says. "He knew that in order for the show to be as successful as possible, he would have to take contributions not just from myself but from everybody connected with the show." 
Burge choreographed two num­bers in the.show-a big dance num­ber with a Wall Street setting and a tap duet for Joe and himself. The work earned him the title "co­choreographer" for the production. 
It was Burge who had to ~each the classically trained dancers to 
~100 
Place
OFF ANY MOVIE 
Washington Hall 
·cLOCK TOW& SQUARE 
tap, a job that he says was not very hard because he gave himself the 
most difficult tap steps. 
"Tap dancing is like being a drummer except you use your feet instead ofdrumsticks," he says. "Rhythm is very important." 
Burge has been tapping for 20 years. He decided he wanted to be an entertainer after watching Sammy Davis Jr. on the "Ed Sullivan Show." His parents -his father worked for the Transit Authority, his mother was a housewife -were supportive. 
There were endless dance classes and then four years at the High School ofPerforming Arts. But Burge earned his keep. He appeared as a regular on public television's "The Electric Company" and made dozens ofcommercials. It was whilt attending the Juilliard School, where he received a bachelor's degree, that Burge appeared in "TheWiz." · 
Now there's a Gregg Burge Dance Studio in Merrick, N.Y., which he directs. 
Now with the movie version of "A Chorus Line," people outside of New York are getting a chance to see Burge in· action. In the film, which was directed by Sir Richard Attenborough and choreographed by Jeffrey Hornaday, Burge played the role of Richie and worked as 1ssistant choreographer, a position distinctly different from his job on "Song and Dance." 
Imaginecreating 
yourown Crab Legs
and Seafood Feast. 

Start with a full Yz lb~ of our flavorful Alaskan Snow Crab Legs. Then add one of eleven delicious seafood selections. Like. sizzling shrimp scampi. Or savory sea scallops. Or tender fried shrimp. Come in soon and create your own Crab Legs & Seafood Peast. But hurry, this offer is for a limited time only. 
*Approximate weight 

Red Lobster:> 
20! West McKinley Mishawka 
256-1565 10 1986 Red Lobster Inns of America 
A Broadway Play by Bill C. Davis Presented by 
Actors for Africa, Inc. 
Date Time 
January 24 & 25 7:30pm 


51400 U.S. 31-33 NORTH tickets available at the door 
South &end, Ind. 277-8510 Call Far Detalla to Jain 
Admission by Donation Proceeds Go To Relieve The Famine In Africa) 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, January 24, 1986 ­
Broadway bursts into film with dance extravaganza 
GERTIE WIMMER 


features copy editor 
D 
o you want to dance? 
I would love it, but only ifI could 
dance like any one of the people dancing in 
Richard Attenborough's "A Chorus Line." If 
you thought you saw great dancing in sum· 
mer flicks like "Fiashdance" and ''Footloose," 
you ain't seen nothing yet. There is simply no 
way to describe the perfection and flow of 
movement that these artists show. lmpos· 
sible, incredible, amazing· it's all there. 
Movie review 
A Chorus Line .*** (out of four) 

But wait, there's more. Maybe you don't like "dance" movies. Maybe dancing bores you. Never fear. Not onJy can every person in this movie dance circles around anyone else I've ever seen before, but they can also sing. Yes, even Audrey Landers, the beautiful blonde from the "Dallas" series, can sing. Miracles still come true. 
But you know the score, the musical score, that is. The Broadway musical by the same name was so popular a few years ago that everyone has heard the title song, "A Chorus Line." It was written by the well known composer Marvin Hamllsch. The lyrics to such memorable songs as "Dance 10, Looks 3" were written in collaboration with Ed· ward Kleban. The best part about the score is that ifyou liked it on stage, you'll probably love it in the movie. 
The only star in the film who doesn't at least do a little soft-shoe is Michael Douglas. He puts in a powerful ifstern performance as Zach, the director/choreographer ofthe show. His sadistic streak becomes im· mediately evident to the dancers auditioning for the part, but it is not until his ex-lover Cassie ( Alyson Reed) shows up that the audience really begins to despise him. The love story between these two could have constituted the main part of the plot, but mercifully it doesn't. 
What the movie is about is dancing, the dream ofdancing on Broadway, the dream of making it big. Every one of the dancers who makes it to "final cuts" has his own story, and the most fascinating part of the movie is the characters. 
There are parts, as in any movie, that make you laugh. Matt West as "Bobby," the boy who used to break into people's houses just to rearrange the furniture, is especially good. 
But this movie isn't all laughs and dancing, though. The painful story of"Paul," played by Cameron English, is among the most moving of the "Chorus Line" monologues. 
Although other critics have blasted this movie, claiming that it lacks the spark of the Broadway musical, I found it even more rewarding than the live performance I saw. The camera angles, especially on the dancing figures, brought clarity into the action that my scat in Row Y could not provide. I must admit that I missed the intermission, for the movie seemed to go on indefinitely, but despite that small flaw. it was well worth it. 
About the plot. not much can be said. But who needs plot, anyway? The movie is about dancing and about the separate stories of the people who devote their lives to the art. And ifyou take the movie for what it is, even though it does not have Mikhail Baryshnikov in white tights, it's a superiorly made dance movie. 
Mass 


The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: 
.. 
Father Patrick Gaffney at 5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 10:30 a.m. and 
!2:15p.m. 
The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
Heart Church is: Monday through Saturday at II: 15 a.m. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday onJy 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:1 5 
p.m. in the Lady Chapel. 
The rosary is said daily at 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto. 

-
"Mass Appeal" 


Movies 
o The Student Activities Board hosts "Witnrss" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Harrison Ford stars as john Book, a tough Philadcl· phi a cop whose only witness to a brutal murder Is a young Amish boy on his first visit to the city. Tension mounts as Book's attraction to the boy's widowed mother (Kelly McGillis) grows and the killer moves closer to his prey. Robert Ebert of the Chicago Sun Times called this film "ont> hell ofa thriller." Tickets to the 7, 
9: I'i and I I :30 p.m. shows arc S I. 'iO. 
o The department ofcommunication and theater presents the film "The Brother From Anothrr Planrt" tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium. This science· fiction comedy features an extraterrestrial in the form ofa human who lands in New York Harbor and winds up in Harlem. An allegory about the experience ofbeing an immigrant alien and an outsider, this film was directed by AmericanJohn Sayles. As a result of various grants, admission to movies presented during the Spring Film Series are being offered at reduced rates. Tickets to the 7 and 9:30 p.m. showings of "The Brother From Another Planet" are St.'50. 
• Beginning the Indiana University at South Bend's spring film series is "\'rod," Barbra Strelsand's story about a courageous young woman who disguises herselfas a man to enter a field ofstudy denied to her. Admission lO the 8 p.m. show in the Little Theater of Northside Hall on the JlJSB campus Is S 1.7'5. 
I
Music 
• Tonight the Holiday Star Theater in Merrlllvllle hosts Roy Ayers with special guest jazz Explosion featuring Ramsey ~wis, Freddie Hubbard and Noel Pointer. Tickets are S 14.95 for the 9 p.m. show. 
The Scoop 


"Witness" 
Art 
~I 
• The South Bend Community School Corporadon Art Faculty Exhibition can be viewed in the Warner Gallery of the South Bend Art Center. For the first time since its move to the Century Center complex in 1978, the Art Center is spon· soring an invitational exhibit which highlights the work of the art instructors within the South Bend Community Schofll Corporation. The exhibit is free. 
•St. Patrick's Brown Barn offers "Moonlight Interpretive Skiing" tomorrow night from 7 to 8:30p.m. For reservations, call 277-4831. 
Theater 

• 
The Office ofStudent Activities, in conjunction with the Around the Corner Club, is sponsoring the play "Mass Ap­peal" tonight and tomorrow night in Washington Hall. "Mass Appra.l," by Bill Davis, is the story ofa pastor (Father Tim Farley) who learns from his student and seminarian (Mark Dolson) the value and sacrifice ofa real commitment to higher education. Calling themselves Actors for Africa, two Indiana men,Jim Shildmyer and Harvey Fries, star as Father Tim Farley and Mark Dolson, respectively. Tickets are S3 for the 7:30p.m. performances. 

• 
The Broadway Theater ~ague presents David Merrick's song-and-dance ex­travaganza, "42ndStrert," directed and choreographed by Gower Champion, tonight, tomorrow and Sunday at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets are available for tonight's show at 8 p.m. for S 14. 50, tomorrow's matinee at 2 p.m. for $11.50 and 14. 50, and Sunday's show at 


1:30 p.m. for Sl9.50. For more informa· tion, contact the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office. 
o The Elkhart Civic Theater presents "Harvey," a family comedy, at the Bristol Opera House tonight and tomorrow night at 8:1 5 p.m. Admission is S6. 

--~~ 
~------------~------------------~--------~~-----~-~-----------------------­
Happenings-page 4 Friday, January 24, 1986 
Macri's decor perfect for enjoyable dining 
LISA YOUNG 
feaiUn!s writer 

I 
f Notre Dame ev.er made the movies and 
the director requested a setting for an 
off-campus restaurant scene, Macri's Deli 
would be the obvious choice. With picnic 
tables and booths which are wooden and 
slightly marred (just so) and walls lined with 
jerseys, banners and, near the bar, a collec­
tion ofbaseball caps-what more needs to be 
said? 

Restaurant 
Macri's Deli 
***"') 
(outoftour) 
Macri's is a delicatessen, and much more. A big-screen television and various video games provide for a constant hum ofactivity, an ambience perfect for cheering on the Fighting Irish on any other favorites. A room adjacent to the main TV room, designed in an outdoorsy motif, is a tranquil change ofpace from the TV room. 
Ofcourse, the menu is excellent, as the appetizers alone are a must. Selections vary from a crock ofonion soup to pizza bread. Their quality tempts one to forget about the rest ofthe meal. 
Befitting Macri's collegiate style, all oftheir entrees are served in a wicker basket, nestled with potato chips and a hot pepper. The "Create Your Own" section ofthe menu offers the deli standbys, fixed to perfection. "House Specialties" are Macri's own unique renditions ofthe basic sandwiches, including the "Old Chicago" Oake and Elwood's favorite), "Beefand Company," which claims to weigh a pound, and the "B.R. T." -a bacon, roast beef, and turkey breast sandwich with 

-
melted cheese on an Italian roll. "You won't be disappointed," says the menu, and you won't. 
Even ifyou feel that you can't eat another bite, a look at the dessert display will change your mind. The house specialty is cheesecake, with changing varieties daily. A typical day offers raspberry, pumpkin, turtle and chocolate-chip pies, and such standbys as cannolis, eclairs and apple pie are also available. 
Macri's is not a bar, but wine and beer, including imports, are served. 
For reference, Macri's has carry-out and also offers catering services. For tailgaters or otherwise, three-and six-foot submarine sandwiches can be ordered. 
Macri's is easy to find. Take Douglas Rd. to Grape Road and make a left. Turn right into the shopping mall across froni University Park and look for the neon sign -and a good meal. 



2nd ANNUAL SUPER BOWL SUITCASE PARTY  
Winatri to theSu erBowl  
FOR YOU AND A GUEST TRIP INCLUDES: PARTY INCLUDES: airfare ·························~ FOOD accomodations • Patriots vs. Bears •• • DRINKS• •Super Bowl tickets MUSIC• •• in New Orleans •$100spending money DANCING• • per person •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• FUN Rulesfor lf1inner & guest: NON-JUNIORS1. Must be a Notre Damejunior 2. Must have paid $5 at the door WELCOME$1 S. Must have suitcase Friday, January 24 9-1 am in South Dining Hall $5 ADMISSION  

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~---------------------------------------------F_r_id_ay~,~Ja_n_u~ary~2~4~,~~9~8~6--~p~ag~e~9 
Boys from Boston sound like the best kept secret 
I tell you, I love those Bears. I just love them. They are the best. I watch them on the television, and I love to read about them in the paper. You have to like that McMahon kid; he really gets the job done. And you know what? He has fun doing it. You have to like those headbands he wears, making fun ofauthority. Yes, sir, he is a great guy. And how about those shades? He looks great in those shades, let me tell you. And how about that hairdo at the beginning of the season? You have to love it ­this guy Is a nut. 
Dan Casey 
smoke signals 

And how about Walter Payton? After all these years, he still has the moves. He can do It all. Did you ever sec him throw the ball? What a great spiral. 
And how about that new kid, the big one, the appliance there. The Refrigerator, you say? Yeah, he is great. I love to see him run with that ball. How big is he, anyway? Three hundred pounds, is that right? He can catch, too. And he even plays defense. I am not kid­ding. I read it In the newspapers. 
P.O.BoxQ 

Chicago can learn from Notre Dame's tradition 
/Jear Editor: 
I write this letter to congratulate Amy Step­han on her fine article criticizing the Chicago Bears fans. She adeptly identifies the atrocious behavior of the Bears fans in which no self­respecting Notre Dame fan would ever par­ticipate. She so perfectly writes with the ideals of Notre Dame in mind that she must be the spirit of Notre Dame personified. We may, in fact, use her letter and the Bears as a guideline to keep Notre Dame pure and safe for all time. Some excellent examples from Amy's letter: 
"... Chicago fans were treated to a halfhour show focusing on the greatest symbol ofBear­hype titled 'Fridge: The legend grows.' " Nobody associated with Notre Dame will ever allow the media to make a legend out of a Notre Dame sports figure! 
"But the Bears do not limit themselves to terrorizing Chicago." Never will Notre Dame put up with fans making a fuss over them In other cities. We all know that the Alumni Clubs, and especially the Subway Alumni, are under strict orders to keep silent about their feeling.~ toward Notre Dame. 
"Even our school mascot, the symbol ofthe Fighting Irish, wore a refrigerator with the number 72 ... .'' We at Notre Dame will M"A"s•u anyone who would dare disgrace us by publicly wearing clothing with our school's name across it, right Father Mulcahy? 
"Those who like the Bears become Bear­maniacs. Those who dislike the Bears or are indifferent toward them become Bear-haters. "lltere is no middle ground.'' Need I say more? 
"OK., maybe the Bear-hater could survive winter in Chicago by avoiding all discussions concerning football and occasionally hum­ming a bar or two of the 'Super Bo:wl Shume· on his way to work.'' Our school's alma mater Is, admiuedly, constantly going through every student's head much of the time, but we are extremely proud that nothing is made of our Victory March. I bet none of our alumni can remember the whole tune, let alone the words. 
And finally, the most serious accusation that even we at Notre Dame have been seen slip­ping into In recent years. 
And the coach, that Ditldt guy. Boy Is he tough. I bet he eats gravel for breakfast. You know, he is the kind ofguy that lets you know when he Is really ticked off. I like that. You see him, chewing that gum on the sideline. Looks like he could still play, Ditka does. 
And that Singletary kid, is that his name? He looks like Dick Butkus out there, making tackles, hitting people. He is a real monster. And how about that Dent kid? Talk about hur­ting some quarterbacks. He is tough. You know, I really do not think that Miami has a chance on Sunday. 
What did you say? Miami didn't make it? Wow, I thought for sure that they would make it. That Marino kid is so tough. Beat the Bears once already. Boy,l guess that it is going to be a game ofdefense, huh? Those Raiders against our Bears, huh? 
What do you mean, the Raiders got beat? You must be kidding. You are not going to tell me that the jets are going to the Superbowl, are you? God, that Gastineau kid gives me the fits. And how about Klecko, and that quarter­back, O'Brien? They could sure play the Bears tough. What, the jets got beat, too? Then who is playing for the AFC in the Super Bowl? The Steelers again? 
What do you mean, the New England Patriots? Are they a new team? You must be kidding. Did the Raiders move again? What? The guys with the minuteman on their hel­mets? Are they from the USFL or what? You must be pulling my leg. 
Walt a second, I remember. They got that little guy playing quarterback, right? The one with the Heisman? Am I wrong again? Shoot, I just don't remember Boston having a football team. They have basketball, though. Larry Bird, right? So, does he play quarterback for the Boston Patriots or what? 
Tony Eason? That name sounds familiar. Andre Tippett? Never heard ofhim. What, you say he is the best outside linebacker in foot­ball? Funny, I never heard ofhim. Craigjames? Any relation to Jesse james? Is he the guy that does wine cooler commercials with that Bartles guy? God, they are funny. john Han­nah? A nine-time Pro Bowler? He must be pretty good then, huh? Funny I never read about him before, though. 
Wow, Chicago against Boston. Well that will just not ftc the same. I thought the Bears would be playing a real team for the Super Bowl. What a shame. I guess my copy of the "Super Bowl ShufHe" will be worth a little less. Ah, what the heck. At least this Is a sure win for the Bears. Playing a bunch of nobodies from Boston. 
"All this enthusiasm only serves to make Chicago fans look more foolish when their bubble inevitably pops ... But none of this phases Chicago fans. Despite their disappoint­ment, they obstinately support their teams, somehow summoning fresh optimism for each new season." Some Notre Dame loyalists almost fell into this trap with jerry Faust, but I am confident that we will re-evaluate our priorities and "Heave Holtz" before he has a chance to have a losing season. Chicago fans definitely have much to learn from the great Notre Dame tradition. 
Eric Kuehner Music Department 
Civil rights awareness 
on college campuses? 
Dear Editor: 
Do you know how many minority students on this campus are not varsity athletes? Have you ever stopped to think about it? 
Civil rights progress on college campuses is often measured by the success ofthe minority athlete. While the minority athlete is remem­bered, other minority students are often for­gotten. We believe that both the athlete and the non-athlete should be recognized for their academic achievements on college campuses. 
Our "Campus Comments" intended to focus attention upon this issue and to promote individual thought. We hope that our comment was received in this spirit. 
Susan Hayes Tom Considine Notre Dame students 
A campus comment on Campus Comments 
DearEditor: 
How far has Notre Dame come on the issue ofcivil rights? The only rational answer to this question can be that this University has not gone very far at all. Yet I have come across an answer to this question that disturbs me very much. "How many minority students don't play varsity sports?" is the answer that two white upperclassmen gave to the question in Monday's Campus Comments. What kind of attitude is this representative ot? Also in the same Campus Comments, two minority stu­
dents' answers to the same question present a 
startling contrast in minority awareness here. 
One admitted to being unaware prejudice 
even exists at Notre Dame. The other student 
said she feels like an outcast here. How shock­
ing? Not really. It is just the cold, hard truth. 
Another student in the Campus Comments 
tells us "Notre Dame is always behind the 
times." We know how true this can be at 
times, but this is in marked contrast with the 
"liberal" reputation this school has. Why? 
Why? Why? Could it be a jet-set administra­
tion that works hard at enhancing this image 
has Lost sight ofone ofits most important goals 
-to make Notre Dame a truly integrated com­
munity, where all students ofany race, sex or 
religion can thrive? When will the administra­
tion realize it must look not just to the 
problems of race in the world outside Notre 
Dame, but also within? 
What is the point of all this? It is simple. By selecting these six people to respond to the question of the day, The Observer did the Notre Dame community a great service. It brought out into the open (whether by acci­dent or by design: The Observer did it) five distinct attitudes which can speak for the at­titudes of the vast majority of the student body on the minority situation. From left to right the attitudes were: acknowledgement of the problem by one of the "majority;" brush­ing aside the problem through the old "some things will never change" answer; unaware­ness of the problem even existing; a flippant remark; and saddest of all, one of the Notre Dame family who feels like an outcast. What can be done? What will be done? 
Go back and look at Lester Flemons' article from that same issue of The Observer, right above the Campus Comments. This is an ex­varsity football player who has been writing about the minority problems at Notre Dame for at least the two and a halfyears I have been here. We can all take hope from this column, for Flemons hones_tly believes the struggle for minority progress is worth the time and effort to make it a worthwhile and achievable cause. I applaud Flemons. 
I do not apologize ifI have offended any of you. This letter is intended to offend, awaken and question. But I do apologize ifl have taken any of the Campus Comments mentioned out of the context for which they were intended, 
So, who is the coach of this new team, anyway? Raymond Berry, you say? The guy who used to play for the Colts? Well, I guess he was okay. He was sort of an overachiever though. Just a guy off the street they got to catch Johnny Unitas' passes. A real quiet guy, not like Ditka. 
So how did Ray Berry's team get to play in the Super Bowl? Did they win the Massac­husetts lottery? Is this an NBC "Sports Fan­tasy"? Well, you say that they won three games on the road? Heck, that is better than the Chicago Bulls did all season. They beat the jets? And the Raiders? And the Dolphins? What, are you kidding? You say that no one took them seriously? Don Shula must have been shocked? A bunch of basketball players from Boston coached by Ray !;Jerry beat the Dolphins in the Orange Bowl? 
If these guys really beat the Dolphins, then they could be pretty tough. How come 1never heard of them? Sounds like these guys from Boston are the best kept secret in the world. That is such a surprise -I watch television every Sunday and I always read the papers. 
Dan Casey is a junior in the College ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
though I do not believe I have done so. People should be aware what appears at the moment to be a "cool" remark that will look good han­ging on your door may actually end up wounding some of the very peers you are trying to impress in ways you cannot imagine. Be aware not only of the minority issue at 
Notre  Dame,  but  react  intelligently  to  it.  
That's alii ask.  
jim Pastore]r.  
Howard Hall  

Calls for University to pave the shoulders 
DearEditor: 
I am the jogger. I returned to campus via Notre Dame Avenue and finished my exercise by running past the lakes. The sidewalks and trails inside the main circle and east gates offer safe running, but my concern lies in the road and shoulder conditions from the east gate to the far end of Notre Dame Avenue. My reason is simple: I was struck by a car while I ran down Juniper Street. Fortunately, I was not injured; however, I was angered. "Why had I been struck?" 
There are three reasons. First, I ran on the wrong side of the road. Second, the poor shoulder conditions, on both sides ofthe road, forced me to run along the white stripe. Third, the driver of the car did not wait until the op­posing traffic had subsided; consequently, he did not try to pass wide ofme. I do fault myself for not running against traffic; however, the shoulder conditions present large difficulties and risks of injury to runners. Large potholes, inconsistencies in the surface, and other obstacles make the shoulder unsafe. As for the driver who struck me, he increased my aware­ness of my responsibilities as a pedestrian and as a driver. 
I hope all joggers who share my concern will take this opportunity to voice their opinion on this Issue. With enough support in the form of more letters, the Notre Dame ad­ministration will take action to correct this hazardous condition. 
Steven A. Sley Keenan Hall 
Editorial Board Operations Board 

-----·-. -----A-=Y~ -.-­-I-he.--0-bse~~er--­
Editor--in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
ManiJfling Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 

The Observer tS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan

Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson

admtntstratton of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ..............•........ John A. Mennell

Sible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editooal Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 

ranes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 

avatlable to all members of the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on 
PhotOQraphy Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 

campus. through letters. 11 encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 

~------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, January 24, 1986-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski· equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or staff members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.-The Ob­
server 
Aerobics will be offered· in Angela Athletic 
Facility, Mondays and Wednesdays from 10·11 p.m., Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5·6 p.m., and Fridays from 5·6 p.m. A $5 fee per semester, payable on the first day of attendance, entitles you to at· tend all sessions. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Tae Kwan Do Club will be accepting 
new members until Thursday,Jan. 30. Classes will meet regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. Bring workout clothes for practice. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440. · Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame-North Carolina game will be carried live by AM 64, WVFI, beginning with "Digger says. . . "at 12:45 p.m. "Let's talk basketball" with Jim Gibbons will also precede the play-by-play with Pete Pranica at 1:00 Sunda-,r afternoon. -The Observer 
The ND Judo Club will hold a meeting Sunday at 2 
p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone in· terested is welcome to attend. No experience is necessary. For more information call Sara Harty at 283·3352. ·The Observer 
A Schick SMC basketball tourney, for 
three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. 5. Rosters can be 
picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned byJan. 
29. No preilent or former varsity basketball players may participate. The winning team will go to regional play with the championship. game being held in an NBA arena. For more information call the' Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The ND Kung Fu Club will hold its first meeting of the semester tomOTTow at 6 p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Techniques from the Northern Sil Lum Dragon style will be taught. Anyone interested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call David Scott at 2R'\-1 766. -The Observer 
Bookstore BasketballXV Commissioner applica­tions are now available at the main desk in the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Any sophomore is eligible to be this year's commissioner. All applications must be returned today by 5 p.m., and an interview time should be arranged at that time. -The Observer 
A SMC co-ed volleyball tourney will begin 
Feb. 3. Teams must consist of 3 men and 3 women. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned with a no entry fee by Jan. 29. For more information call the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -The Observer 
Interhall hockey teams may now register to practice on the ACC ice rink. A limit ofone hour per week per team will be imposed and the fee will be S50 per hour. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll at 239·5247.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Squash Club will be practicing this semester at the ACC courts every Monday from 7-9 p.m., Thursday from 4-6:30 p.m. and Saturday from 3·5 p.m. All members are en­couraged to attend each practice. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451.-The Observer 
A SMC doubles racquetball tournament will 
begin Feb. 3. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned by jan. 29. For more information call the An· gela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 
Green leads Phoenix golf by one stroke 
As!ociated Press 
PHOENIX PGA champion Hubert Green birdied his last hole for an 8-under-par 63 and a one­stroke lead in the first round yester· day of the $500,000 Phoenix Open Golf Tournament. 
"A fun round of golf," said the 39· year-old veteran, who scored his 19th career victory in the 1985 PGA national championship. "I'm close to doing it the way I want to." 
Green scattered nine birdies across his card, including a 20-footer on his last hole at the Phoenix Country Club that gave him sole possession of the top spot. 
A single stroke back at 64 was a starry group made up of the defend· ing title-holder, Calvin Peete, former PGA champ Hal Sutton, the white­haired Australian Greg Norman and Larry Mize. 
Norman, the massive hitter who has come to be known as the "Great White Shark," inadvertently violated a standard of golf etiquette when he drove the green on a par-4 hole, hit­ting into a crouched jack Nicklaus. 
Nicklaus was hunkered over a birdie putt when Norman's drive trickled across the green on the 320­yard hole. 
I ht• ( Jhst•rn•r 'ol rt· I>JnH· nffit t' lul.llc:d on lht· 1lun.l tlnur nf I JlnrlluH· '\tlldl'IH ( l'llfl'f •.H.t t'PI"' l(J,,Ifin.l Jth t'fll".,lll~ tr, Hll l) J 111 until f p 111 .\1t lllll.J\ lhrough I ndJ\ I her lhst•rr·er 'JillI \t.tn 'otfill' .(nL. JIL'd on lhL· lharlf floor ol IIJ)4)4Jr < ullt•J4t· <nlln Jt <TPI' 'IJ,'IIinl' lr<~m 12 ~II p m unul ~ p m \tun. dJ\ lhUliJ4h 1rodJ\ l>cJdlont· lor IH..\1 dJ\ tlJ"IIit·d, " ~ pIll \II tlJ"rfkd' mu... l hL· prl·p.ttd t·Hll('r 111 per'( Hl or In m.ul <hJ.f)!.l' '' I o' l'nh pc:r h\ t' l h.trJL.

Classifieds 
rcr' L'f dJ~ 

NOTICES  DO YOU EAT LUNCH IN THE NORTH DINING HALL? DID YOU TAKE  ll's nol juot a job, iraan advenlure. Deliver lhe Obaefver! Spola now open lor everyday of lhe week. Good pay. Come  PREGNANT? NEED HELP? Call 234·0363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling  NoiM magazine issue number 2 comes oul Friday a! lunch. Look for lhll briiHanl piece of rocl< hiltory and savor your copy  H8PPY 21 at lllrthdlly, llrtan Trecey ­Lockpor1, N.Y. is bracing itoelf, 10 iveitup !! (But watch lhe licenae. buddy ...)  
MY BLUE NOTRE DAME BINDER BY  up to the Obaefver and fiN out an applica­ & free pregnancy leata.  while you can! To order lhe nex16 ruues  Love, Mary  
MISTAKE?  tion, or cell Marl< Potter at 283-2450.  WOMEN' I CARE CENTER  of this, ND/SMC'a only alternative music  
HELP WANTED $60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for prCIC88eing mail at home! Information, send oelf-addrMM<I. stamped envelope. Aaeociates. Box 95, Roeelle, N-Jereey 07203  IT HAS MY CLASS ADD SLIP IN IT, AND WHATEVER ELSE. PLEASE CALL MATT PATRtCOSKI AT 232-6697 OR BRING IT TO THE LOST&FOUND IN THE ADMIN BUILDING THANX  PM.on to share house in residential neighborhood near campus. Ap­proximately $150/mo utiHties induded. Cal Mike 23lH861 or 232-o841. MALE GUITAR/VOCALIST LOOKING  FREE FACIALS AND MAKEOVERS Held in your own residence. Celt JuHe at 234-7635 Protesaional Beauty Consultant  newsletter. write to: Pat B., 224 Alumni. Subscriptions are $3 off campuo. only $1 on campus. Thank you and have a good lunch. LJfe is reelly wonderful. -Kolski  OMerv• ltatiMemiNte: You are encouraged to anend a lt8ff Forum Tuesday. Jen. 211 at 7:30p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Scrence Hal. Bring your questtonl. commenta, compliments and criticiama. Refreshments wil be  
Typing Available 287-4082  WOMENS SWATCH WATCH FOUND IN FRONT OF O'SHAG. CALL. 1654  FOR ANOTHER TO GET TOGETHER AND PLAY LOCAL COFFEE HOUSES AND BARS. ENJOY E.LISTENING,  OAII HOUlE: COLD BEER I UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.l. 31 N., 1  1/21/86  served. CP, TH. LN. GT, KC, JW Dad is great.  
·············'······..························1.................  FOUND ..... ONE SET OF HOOPS TIX AT O'SHAG ON TUES. NIGHT CALL  COUNTRY AND SOME POP ROCK. CALL ANYTIME AND LV MSG. 233-6692  IILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  A BCAF FASHION SHOW SPECIAL! A UNIQUE PRESENTATION! A LONG  givet ue choc cake. We're gonna h•ve fun, ·cauoe we have the beet dat811. See  
BEAVER AT 234-2275 WITH LOCATION  HOOP HYSTERIA T-IHIRTI  AWAITED  PERFORMANCE!  LOOK  y'all Saturctay! SKF2. MM2. JW2  
$10.$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Orculals!  Support Logan Center and the basketball  IHAIIP•••  OREII SHARP•••  FEMALE  
Noquotu! Sincerely inlereated rush oelf-addr~  Were you shooting hoopa in Stepan on  RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL, IL) JAN 31. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. SUE  team! Long and short aleves  MODEL TRYOUTS: TUES. JAN. 28TH, 6:00PM MALE AND FEMALE FINAL  HhhHie! ..Ita better to have flung and 10111 than never to have flung at all ... • The Tight  
envelope:  Success,  POBox  470CDD.  Wed. 1/15? llostmyblackwatch (aCuio  284-4122.  Stop by Room 221 Stanford  CUTS:  FRI, JAN. 31ST. 6:00PM AP­ Endl  
WoodStock, IL 60098.  cheapie but it's the only one I have) bet·  or call 2089/2078 tor delivery  PLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT  
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040.$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-687·6000 Ext. R-9834 tor cur­ ween8:00and9:00.Ifyoutoundn,pleaae <*I m&-Kevin 1750. Thanks. FOUND: A COPY OF /luaiona by Richald  FOR SALE  Hungry? Call Yellow Submarine at 272­HIKE. Delivery hou,..: 5pm·12am Mon­ 227 LEWIS(TONI'S) BEGINNING WED. JAN 22, 10:00PM-12:00AM AND RETURNED SUN. JAN 26 ALL DAY. AP­PLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP  ERIC ..GRASS.. GRASBERGER Thanx tor the wet beer on such a cold night' (or vice-versa)  
rent t-alJiot.  Bach. If you received thlo book In May of '83 and can give your name, call Chartae  Need  a  GOOD  USED  ELECTRIC  Thun~; 5pm-2am Friday, 3pm-1am Sat; 4pm-10pm Sun.  AT 117 B.P.(LISA'S) BEGINNING WED, JAN, 22, 8:00PM-10:00PM AND  You'll never be able to forget it!  
TYPING  at 1537 or atop by 401 Cavanaugh. Thil il  TYPEWRITER? Let's make a deal--call  RETURNED THROUGH  THURS.  JAN  
23WIII7.  CAU.CHRtl  one book that should not be milllaid or for· gotten.  Sharon at 2762 tor exciting detaila.  SUMMER  SERVICE  PROJECTS ap­ 23.  Reggoe Oanret will be 22 tomorrow! Give the tyrant of WVFI a call•1153 and wish  
Att1111tlon: ltu­~FI'8flda TyplnfSarvlc:e haa a ph-chrlnga 277-8131 BUliNEll EXPRUI, INC. Wordproceaatng and typing 272-8127 TYPING BY IALl.Y 272-7573.  LOST:BACKPACK L011t Tues.21(dinner) a blue Notre Dame backpack. Contents vital. Need IDa ur· gently. Reward offered. If found pleaae call Anita at 234·8002. L.oat: green spiral notebook in ear-and Placement office on Tues clay. I know it's otiU early. but there were some important not811 that I'd hate to loae. It you picked it up by mistake. pleue call me at 3564. Thanks. FOUND: LEATHER GYMBAG IN SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CLAIMATLOST AND FOUND SECOND FLOOR  JVC portable otereo with cuaene player. Sounds great! $175. Cal Paul at 283­2107. Looking tor an (almost) new HOT AIR POPCORN POPPER. by any chance? I just happen to have one that I MUST sell. Cal2762. TICKETS WANTED 2 GA'S TO MARQUETIE GAME CALL BILL X2161  plications deadline io February 3. More info at Center tor Social Concerns. Do you like to take pictures? Do you want to put your finger on lhe pulae of the campuo? Do you have experience in Black and White film proceuing? Do you own a 35mm camera and need exira money? It you anawered yea to any of these questions you really want to become a member of the elite OBSER­VER Photo Staff. WE NEED PHOTOGRAHERS in a really bad way. There are acheduled and freelance poai· tiona available. Apply at the Observer Office, third floor LaFortune.  MIKE SHIELDS IS A MADIIAH' HEY PIGGY MCSWINEY!!! So you're finally 19. eh? Well then. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Don't tall apart on ua!! Lake. Patty, Lake!!! Call 4169 and wish her a happy b-day' HAT AND TIE IS COMING!!!! Details next week... THE MUSIC KING IS BACK'!!!!!! FIRST THE BEACH PARTY, THEN THE FRESHMAN DANCE NOW YOU CAN PARTY TO THE MUSIC OF ALEX KING AGAIN THII FRIDAY, JAN.24 FROM t:30P.M.· 1:30AM AT THE AJ..UMNI  him a MEUOW B-Day1 To the X-Pres of NOLC: Thanks for being 10 sweet I hope the NOLC can get along without you. Jimmy D. SCOTI CASSIDY Congrato tor makrng it through Ranger week!! SLEEP!! Take care. Maria MOM AND DAD---WELCOME TO NO!! Thanks for everything. Have a GREAT weekend!! ILU-Mary ............................. NO CHICAGO CLUB BEAIIIBAIH ND CHICAGO CLUB BEAIIIIIAIH  
LOST/FOUND I LOST: A thick, chain-linked gold bracelet with a large cfaap. It wu loet Friday, January 17th. It hu incredible Mntimen­tal value and cannot be rep!Ked. If you haVe any information,~ cal Karen at 1884. Thank you. FOUNO:RED FLOWERED MAKE-UP BAG IN HAYE5-HEALY RESTROOM. CALLX3865 LOST: Notre Dame Boxing oweatahirt left in Haggar auditorium after Tuesctay night final. If you picked it up. ~cal me at 272-4287 and let me know. It's not mine 10 I rMiy need It bact<! R-ard offered. LOST: Gold herringbone bracelet with tri color gold roae attached. REWARD!!!!!  LAFORTUNE. FOUND: TO THE GAL THAT ..LOVES PIGS", YOUR KEYS HAVE BEEN FOUND! PLEASE CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND, LAFORTUNE. FOR RENT Semi-furnished houee in good neighbor· hood 25!>-3684/2n-3604 One Female Roommate needed • ND Apbl. • cloae to campus and inexpensive. If interested call Sharon at 3484. N.D. Ave. Apt. tor rent· If interested t*l Shirley at 234-684 7  D-atelySeeking 2 Marquette baaket· belt tickets. Pleue cal Jim at 1609. I need 2 baaketball tickets, either GA or student, for either the Marquette game on Feb.1 or the Dayton game on March 8. Cal Mike at 283-1643. I NEED 3-4 TICKETS TO THE MAR· QUETTE GAME, G.A. OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL BtU. AT 2001 I need up to 4 Marquette ticketo/ Call Maryat2865 NEED: AT LEAST 2 TIX, G.A.. FOR MARYLAND, FEB.3. CALL 2994 LORETTA I NEED MARQ. OR MARYLAND GA'S­283-1639; JOHN NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX. CALL DAVE 1059.  THE CHICAGO BEARS WILL BE SHUF­FLING OFF TO BUFFALO AFTER SUN­DAYI"BERRY.. THE BEARS! SIG!!iED, A REAL FAN, A PATRIOTS FAN!I!!!!!!III My prediction for the Beat8?­HIBERNATION HIBERNAnON WILL BEGIN ON SUPER BEAR MONDAY. WANTED: Pereon of good writing ability and excel­lent tute. The Accent section of Tha Ob­_.._. ia looking for 10meone to write biweekly reviews of South Bend's fine eating establishmenbl. $$ wiN be provided. Contact Mary Healy at The Ob­server. 239-5313 tor information.  lENlOR CLUBII NO 21 I.D. REQUIRED EVERYONE WELCOME!!!!!! EVERYONE WELCOME!!!III!!II! EVERYONE WELCOME!!II!!!!!II! 0 21 I.D. REQUIRED I LOVE YOU ST. JUDE, jd E. GINA LEE ofLewioHall Wecan make it all work out if we want it to! Someone from Howard ... Thank you St Jude for intentiono granted 79 MAZDA RX7;AM/FM/TAPE,SUNROOF,GREAT SHAPE,BRONZE WIBLACK INT. !>­SPEED,SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY,PlEASE.4,500.CAU 1946 OR 232-4928 JIM MCMAHON FOR UMOC!  ND CHICAGO CLUB BEAIIIIIAIH COME AND WATCH THE BEARS WIN WITH THEIR BIGGEST FANS ALOHA.GIRLS!We're havin' a PARTY I Have a BEACHIN' time at STAN­FORD Hall's ..HAWAIIAN WIPE-OUT" thio SATURDAY 9:30-1:30.Firat 100 in have chance 10 win one of 20 SHEU LEIS! GO HAWAIIAN!!!!!!! NEEDED CREATIVE AND/OR HARDWORKING PEOPLE TO HELP PLAN DECORATIONS FOR THE MS VALENTINE'S DAY DANCE !!! IF IN­TERESTED CALL 2644 OR 35n lUPER BEAR MANIA • VA GOTTA LOVEITIIII Happy Birthday Meeahl Love, T Dear S.A., Sure I'll meet you soon. How about this weekend? Give me a call. K.P.  
call Jackie at 2286. LOIT : THE NAME Of THE PEJIIION WHO HIT MY CAR ON TAYLOR STREET ON THE NIGHT IIEFORE CHIIIITIIAIIIIIEAK. IT WAI A DAM IILUE DATSUN AND DIDN'T THINK IT  Apt. lor rent. Campus Vi-!!! Fernale­nonamoker. CaH Ellen 1312. .--·······_·······_·······_······_··_·······_·······___,....... I PERSONALS WANTED I ~}~~.~;;f:~;;~··;;;;~..t;;;;;~~..;~:  DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'B OR 2 STUDENT nCKETI TO MAIIQUETTE GAIIEII IRtiH, CATHOLIC, COII­MODmEI MOKER WAI DENIED THE CHANCE TO QO TO ND; THEREFORE, HE WILL PLAY HANDIOIIELYI CALL KATHLEEN 2114-533111 THANKS! .  NEVER NEVER turn down a '10'-The I Oth Annual KEENAN REVUE February 6,7,8 SMC/ND SENIORS Happy N-Year! Post New Year'o Eve Party Jan. 25, 1986 9-1am Haggar Cottage Center $2.00 at  RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL, IL) JAN. 31. WIU SHARE EXPENSES. SUE 284-4122. MB, PART 1 IS DONE, JAM ON PART 211 LUV,US!!  
WAI 1IAD AT THE nME. IIUT IT NEEDIIOMI RIPAIR. CALL ..KE AT 272-81011.  Wanted: Girl Friday. Part time r-chaecretary Call 233-3432  legal  -Richard Bach, Thellrldge Acroaa ForrtY•  DAN GARREn AND ANTHONY EUGENI ·THE FOOIBALL FEEN  door. 21 id required to drink. Those under 21 welcome Limited space 10 come early.  KIM AND LYNN'· YOU SAY IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY! HAPPY B-DAYI WE LOVE YOU MOL,COL AND LEE  


The Observer Friday,January 24, 1986-page 11 
McMahon's alleged rude remarks create huge uproar in New Orleans 


Allsoclated PreM 
NEW ORLEANS· Having already argued with his own team over acupuncture, played Pied Piper on Bourbon Street and mooned a 

• helicopter, Jim McMahon found himself in trouble yesterday for something he didn't do · insult New Orleans women. For once, at least, he apparently was an innocent victim. In a fitting coda to the sideshow week before Sunday's Super Bowl between the Chicago Bears and New England Patriots, McMahon, the ir· reverent Chicago quarterback, was the subject of a broadcast report · later retracted · quoting him as cal· ling New Orleans women "sluts." 
But the retraction didn't halt an anti· Me Mahon demonstration outside the Bears' hotel, bomb 'threats to his hotel switchboard, and some threatening calls that got through to McMahon's room. 
Had it been the only incident in· volving McMahon, it would have been sensation enough in Super Bowl week, which is normally no more than a series of staged media events. 
But it came following three days in which McMahon, whose rebel­lious personality had already made him a lightning rod for attention: 
· upbraided his team's manage­ment for refusing to allow an acupuncturist to fly here to treat his bruised buttocks. The Bears relented, the acupuncturist flew in Wednesday, and McMahon said yes­terday he felt 100 percent better after three treatments. 
· mooned a helicopter flying over the team's practice field in suburban Metairie. "I just wanted to show them where it hurts," he said. 
· got into an altercation with a photographer who tried to snap his picture at a restaurant. "When I'm on my own time, I don't want people shoving cameras in my face," he said. 
· led an impromptu parade Wed­nesday night down Bourbon Street in the city's famed French Quarter as he headed back to meet an 11:30 
· p.m. curfew. 
"You people may think I'm crazy," he said at one point. "I think I'm nor· mal because I don't give a damn." 
The latest incident was set off at the end of the 10 p.m. newscast Wednesday on WDSU-TV, the NBC 

THE KING IS BACK! 
Come party with 
ALAN HANSBARGER 
The Music King 
~ 
TONIGHT' .Vouat
• f.L''erect h 
9:30-1:30 8eachp~~~~ Senior Club~ 
ALL students welcome! 
Sponsored by The At ound-The-Corner Club 


affiliate here, by the station's sportscaster, Buddy Diliberto. 
"Jim McMahon app~ently, on a radio interview with WLS, the Chicago radio station, really ripped New Orleans," Diliberto said. "He ripped the people, he ripped the ladies, he ripped a lot of things. 
"Basically, I understand, he said most of the ladles he ran into were sluts. He said most of the people he ran into were stupid. And things like that. And they said he really took off." 
Yesterday, McMahon denied saying that; WLS said it had not Inter­viewed McMahon this week, and both Diliberto and Bob McRaney, the station's vice president and 
general  manager,  publicly  
apologized.  
"I  sincerely  apologize  for  the  

problems caused by these un­verified statements," Diliberto said on the air. "I wishJim McMahon and the Bears well in the Super Bowl Sunday and hope the remainder of the week is devoted to preparations for the game without distractions caused by my comments last night." 
Meanwhile, two dozen women, surrounded by roughly four times as many reporters, picketed outside the Hilton Hotel, where the Bears were staying. One woman, who identified herself as Yetta Bolotte, carried a sign that said, "Only a true Patriot would recognize a New Or­leans lady." 
"I'm hearing now that he didn't say it and It's all a big rumor," Bolotte said. "Ifhe did say It, yes, I'm angry and he ought to get down on his knees and apologize." 
That wasn't aiL 
McMahon, who was partying in Pat O'Brien's bar just off Bourbon Street at the time of Dilberto's broadcast, said he heard about It when he woke up In the morning. He also said he had received several abusive phone calls in his room. 
"There was a message from a lady saying, 'Who in the hell do you think you are calling the women In New Orleans sluts?"' McMahon said. 
New Orleans pollee, meanwhile, said the switchboard at the hotel received three calls threatening McMahon's life and one bomb threat. The hotel wasn't evacuated and no bomb was found, but police spokesman John Marie said security had been increased around the Bears in general and MeMahon in particular. 
Wilson hopes for barks 
~dPreu 
NEW ORLEANS · "No, no, It's not an 'Arf or a 'Woof,' It's more like a 'Whaaarf,' "said linebacker Otis Wil· son of the Chicago Bears. 
"Whaaarf' Is what Wilson hopes to hear Sunday when the Bears take on the New England Patriots. 
"I hope everybody will be doing It Sunday," Wilson said. "The players, the fans, everybody. We're like a bunch ofjunkyard dogs. It's fun." 
The barking began in Dallas at midseason when the Bears walloped the Cowboys 44-0. 
"Me and Dave Duerson started It," Wilson said. "They (the Cowboys) started dogging It so we started barking at them. Pretty soon everybody was barking. Then when we got home the following week for the Atlanta game, the fans got Into the act." 
Wilson will hear more than barking dogs If he and the heavily­favored Chicago Bears lose on Sun· day. 
Does Wilson plan on kickingsome ofhis teammates if they don't join In on the barking? 
"Heck, no, they might kick me back." 

The Observer Friday, January 24, 1986-page 12 

I 
I 
I 
I 
t 
New England Patriots quarterback Tony Eason 
tosses around a ball In a practice session /ate last 
week. Eason and his teammates will try to upset the 
Eason merely wants to do his job Sunday 
AMoclated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Tony Eason 
doesn't wear flippant headbands or 
movie-star dark glasses. He doesn't 
make waves by flying in an 
acupuncturist to treat a painful pos­
terior over his club's protests. 
And he doesn't make headlines. 
Reporters flock to Chicago Bears' 
quarterback Jim McMahon for out­
rageous remarks. They are frustrated 
by New England Patriots quarter­
back Tony Eason, who speaks 
politely but in a low voice. 
"Despite his quiet nature, Tony's got leadership qualities," said Patriots' quarterback coach Les Steckel. "People like him because of his personality." 
The focus in the buildup to the Super Bowl has been on the uncon­ventional McMahon. But when the Bears and Patriots meet in Sunday's NFL championship game, the other quarterback will have a lot to say about the outcome. 
Typically, Eason rejects the idea that he has the burden to carry his team. 
"I'm not looking at it that I have to be the guy anymore than anyone else," he said. 
If the Patriots win and Eason is "the guy," he likely would find him­self in another uncomfortable situa­tion, answering questions in front of hundreds of reporters. 
"Do I have to?" Eason said when asked to speak from a platform into a microphone after the Patriots' AFC championship vicrory over the Miami DolphinsJan. 12. 
A native of California, Eason does little to dispel that state's laid-back image. 
Reporters covering Eason rarely have to delete expletives as they do when quoting McMahon. · 
Even their hairstyles reveal the difference. McMahon's short­cropped, punk-styled cut drew notices when it first appeared. Eason frequently has the casual, tousled look ofsomeone who has just gotten out ofbed. 
On Sunday, the hair will be covered by helmets, the attention will be on whichever quarterback's team has the ball, and the per­sonality differences will be secon­dary to how they play football. 
Eason is doing that better than he did early in the season, when the Patriots struggled with a new of­fense. 
And he has done it, as he has behaved here, without frills. In three playoff victories he has completed 29 of 42 passes for five touchdowns and no interceptions. He has thrown conservatively, yet precisely. 
"He is an extremely dedicated football man who puts a lot of thought into it," New England coach Raymond Berry said of Eason. 
Eason is seemingly unaffected by Super Bowl hype and hoopla. He said he doesn't feel pressure stem­ming from the importance of the 
game. 
"Why should I?" Eason said. "If I don't want to think about it, I don't think about it." 
He doesn't spend much time eit­her thinking about the club's cur­few. 
"I'm not here to see how late I can stay out," he said. "We're here to get a job done." 
Lllat night's Results 
"Both of these freshmen will Part of building for the future in­
Notre Dame women 75, Loyolll women 54 Loyolll women (54) probably be starters for us all year cludes the addition of Auriol to the

Women Fencing
M FG-A FT·A R F P long," says DeCicco. "They both staff along with assistant Mikecontinuedjrompage 16 McNerney 9 0-2 0-0020 
continued/rom page 16 Weeks. Auriol has spent the past

Huszti 29 6-8 1-2 7 4 13 entry against their zones was from Busiel 35 0-5 0-0520 adds Auriol. "She never ceases to 
eight years as the United State Olym­Carr 40 7-16 1-2 5 2 15 pic team coach and has spent some

her wing position." amaze me in competition." "We looked to penetrate the gaps Leyden 32 5-13 3-5 4 3 13 time as women's fencing coach at 
Zalig 5 0-1 0-0 1 0 0

(from the wing) because a zone can­Portland State from 1975 until last
Nelson 22 2-8 3-4 4 2 7 Along with Sullivan, the nucleus not shift fast enough," said Ebben. York 5 o-1 o-o o o o year. Weeks, a 1984 graduate of Pen­
of the team will be composed of 

Once again, Trena Keys led all Barkemeyer 23 3-5 0-2 3 2 6 nsylvania, returns for his second
seniorJanet Sullivan (Conway, N.H.) 

scorers with 22 points and seven 200 23-59 8-15 29 17 54 year on the Irish coaching staff.
and juniors Vittoria Quaroni (San
FG Pet. -.390. FT Pet. -.533. Team

rebounds, while Sandy Botham 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -21. Assists -11 Antonio, Tex.) and Cindy Weeks (Syracuse, N.Y.). Their experience

grabbed 11 rebounds and had 13 (Carr 6). Technicals-None. "Weeks did a great job shaping points. this team and he is a major reason
Notre Dame women (75) and leadership is important for the While not being able to stop M FG-A FT·A R F P why our program is growing at its
squad this season if they hope to Notre Dame's transition game, Keys 30 8-15 6-8 7 2 22 present rate," adds DeCicco. "And I
finish higher in the nationals.
Willis 29 4-6 3-4 6 3 11

Loyola also had trouble on both can't stress enough how valuable it
Both am 24 3-9 7-12 11 2 13

boards. What resulted was many is for us to have an instructor the
Gavin 27 0-0 0-0230 fouls against them in the paint, and Ebben 37 5-8 0-0 1 1 10 calibre of Yves. He was quite a fen­
Two freshmen with excellent the Irish converted for 26 points at cer in his day and he brings that
Toney 20 1-6 1·2 5 1 3 credentials are expected to bolster 
Brommeland 9 1-6 0-0 4 2 2 the women's roster in '86. Janice Barron 6 1-2 o-o 1 o 2

the free throw line. knowledge and skill to coaching." 
Hynes (Peabody, Mass.) and Kristin

Up next for Notre Dame is North 
Bunek 15 5-11 0-0 3 1 10 Star rival Depaul on Sunday. Depaul Morrison 3 1-2 0-0 1 1 2 The fencers will meet with some
Kralicek (Portland,Ore.) both enter enters the ACC with a 12-2 record. 200 2H5 17·26 41 16 75 Notre Dame with Junior Olympian tough opponents on their way to the 
FG Pet. .446. FT Pet. -.654. Team

"Going into the season you had to status and both were trained by nationals this year, but with some
rebounds • 4. Turnovers -18. Assists -22

figure Depaul as one of the con­(Ebben 10). Technicals-None. Auriol. Hynes started at the tourna­dedicated training and their natural ference favorites," said DiStanislao. Halftime· Notre Dame 43, Loyola 29. Offi­talent, there should be no stopping
ment, compiling an impressive 11-2 

"They lost a tough game to Dayton, cials-Ray Diagentini. A-190. record. them. but the NSC is so competitive this year I don't think any team is going to go unbeaten." 
Notre Dame is looking for consis­tency. "We came together as a team tonight, and we will have to do the 
lansFade 

same Sunday," said Willis. "We want to prove to ourselves that we can win the NSC and a bid to the NCAA 
Excuses, Excuses 

Tournament." 
"We will face a physical team so we have to control the ball and limit turnovers," said Ebben. "After the 
STAY BROWN AND BEAUTIFUL 

Boston loss, we regrouped and famaliarized ourselves with the 
WHATEVER THE WEATHER 

common team goal, to win the NSC. 
"We are at home-hopefully they will not have that much luck." Tipoff Tanning Salon 272-9780 against Depaul is scheduled for 3:1 5 p.m. 
52303 EMMONS RD.

IRISH ITEMS -Last night's victory 
GEORGETOWN ~HOPPING CENTER

came amid 'Big Gulp Fever' among the 190 thirsty Irish fans, as the local SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 7-11 Store offered free coupons for the drink upon the successful ASK US ABOUT SESSIONS THAT CAN BE SHARED WITH completion of 1 1 cartwheels by A FRIEND Courtney Patnaude, 11-year-old daughter of Assisstant Trainer 
10. X 'DISCOUNT FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY 

Diannne Patnaude, truly a mag­nificent feat. 


The Observer Friday,January 24, 1986 -page 13 

The-Oblervrr/Drrw Samtlc-r 

Irish forward Trena Keys drir,es past a Loyola defender in action last night at tbe ACC. Keys scored 22 points to lead Notre Dame to 11ictory ouer on of tbe team's North Star Conference riua/s. Mike Szymanski bas more on tbe game on page 16. 
Wrestling comes to ACC tonight with exciting matches 

Men's interhall basketball league action starts to heat up after break 
By TERRY LYNCH Rounding out the ACC second­that was secured at the end of the Sports Writer round action, the Off-Campus Bom­game on the foul line. bers put away Flanner II, 63-53, in a "Everyone played really well, and 
Just as with real college basket­game where five of the six Bombers no one really dominated the game," ball, the men's interhall basketball who played score in double figures. commented Fisher captain Chris schedule picks up a good deal of in­Abner Figuerua and Doug Feeney Carlson. "Skip helped In stretching tensity once January rolls around. chipped in 1 7 and 10 points apiece out their zone In the first half." However, it is a fact that the true in the losing cause. Both teams In the only other Big Ten contest, champions of such a grueling sport evened their records at 1-I. Pangborn defeated Alumni II, ';7-46. arc measured by their desire to win The Big Ten League had one inter­In the Big Sky League, Keenan and every game, regardless of whether esting development as the mys­Flanner I have jumped out to quick . those games are scheduled a week terious Off-Campus II team, which 3-0 starts. In Flanner's 68-49 win before finals or one week after break had forefcited its first two games, over St. Ed's on Tuesday night, Flan­has ended. This is a story about those was discovered never to have been a ner's dominating point guard, Wes very games. team in the first place. This was good Shorter, controlled the tempo and 
With the third round of the news to the remaining seven teams once again keyed the Flanner vic­regular season slated for last night, a in the League, some of which now tory, pouring in 14 points to lead his few teams have shown signs of do not have to worry about a winless team. dominating play within their season. respective leagues. In the ACC Sorin had considerably more "We played real well as a team," League, Morrissey seems to have its trouble in its second game of the said Flanncr captain Eric offense in high gear while going un­season, fending off a valiant effort by Grasenberger. "St. Ed's gave us defeated in their first two contests. a surprisingly tough Holy Cross trouble early by mixing up their In its second contest before the team by a 48-40 score. Holy Cross' defenses, but Wcs did a good job in holidays, the Manor pounded the Steve Belles led the Hogs' offense picking up on it when they did." Carroll Vermin by an unbelievable and all scorers with I 5 points, while Keenan, which before the break score of Hl-14. Chris Nanni paced the Screaming survived a second half letdown to 
Jumping out to a 20-0 lead, the Otters with 12 points on some beat the Off-Campus Slugs, ';7-51, Manor spread out their scoring clutch late jumpers. came back well-practiced after the against a five-man Carroll team that "Nobody was pleased with the break to beat Off-Campus Crime, 78­
obviously didn't know what it had way we played, but Holy Cross was 5 I. George Baldus led all scorers bargained for. John Buscher led all much better than I thought," said with 16 points for Keenan. Keenan's scorers in the game with 18 points. Sorin captain John Chute. "Steve Rick Bliha, serving as an interim The Vermin fell to 0-2 in the ACC Belles is a really good player." The coach for the Crime game, used all 
with the loss. Otters were without their rebound­I 0 of his players and a press to tire 
Keeping pace with Morrissey in ing game, namely Rick DiBernardo. the Crime's limited bench. Keenan's the ACC is the Alumni I squad, In other Big Ten play, Fisher beat traps forced a bunch of turnovers whose victory by forfeit· over Off­Howard, 53-49, in a tight contest toward the end of the game, and Campus I kept the team undefeated. that saw Fisher's Skip Holtz keep his were simply too much for the In other fast-paced ACC action, Dil­team in the game with some hot Crime. lon I pulled out a close 46-40 game first-half outside shooting. Howard In the remaining Big Sky games, over a tenacious Grace II team, came out in a tight zone to start the Grace defeated St. Ed's, 62-58; Zahm evening its record at 1-1. Frank Izzo, game, but made adjustments at the defeated Cavanaugh, 57-38; Grace Dillon's captain, put on an offensive half to accomodate the shooting of defeated the Off-Campus Slugs, 63­show that left him with 22 points on Holtz. Fisher took advantage of this 52;and Stanford defeated the evening. and opened up a second half lead Cavanaugh, 49-40. 
Pantelleria helps lead Saint Mary's basketball team gain much success 
By LINDA BAILY  much more than just responsibility.  "We  have  had  so  many  faculty  
Sports Writer  "I have a completely new role,"  members at  our games, especially  
says Pantcllcria.  over  break.  It  means  so  much  to  
Junior Kris  Pantellcria has  seen  have them there," says Pantelleria.  
many changes in the Saint Mary's  "As  a  freshman,  my job  was  to  She added that her teammates on the  
basketball  team  over the past few  score.  I led  in scoring,  but Beth  bench arc very cnthulsiastic while  
years, changes that she feels have  Krebcr was injured that year," says  the other members arc playing.  
been beneficial. A co-captain, Pan­ the 5-6 guard.  "Now most of my  "They don't just sit there hoping  
tcllcria, out of Benton Harbor, Mic­ points arc from driving."  someone will get injured or foul out  
higan, is having her ".  best  so they can play."  
season yet."  Pantcllcria describes her new role as ". more of a playmaking  The Saint Mary's basketball team's  
Despite  the  frustration  of  her  role." She admits she enjoyed the ot­ immediate  goal  is  to  win  the  
sprained  ankle,  the  21-ycar  old  her role better, but "now we have  Roundball Classic. The tournament  
chemistry major is the team point  people to score.  will be held tonight at 6:00 and 8:00  
guard. She also plays second base for  "It's a sure basket when you give  at the Angela Athletic Facilty, con­ 
the Belles' varsity softball team. Pan­ the ball to Tammye Radke, you can  tinuing tommorow at I :00 and and  
tcllcria has been asked several times  see  it  in  her  eyes,"  she  says.  3:00p.m.  
which sport she prefers, but she says, "I really can't say which I like better. I love to steal bases but I also like the close-knit group of the bas­ketball team.  "Tammyc is a pure shooter." Pantcllcria also enjoys working with senior co-captain Beth Krebcr. "Beth and I work well together," says Pantcllcria. As a captain, she finds herselfapologizing a lot. "I was  The Belles wlll open up the tournament against Hope College and play the winner of the game bet­ween Grace College and Purdue­Calumet.  
"The basketball team has changed so much," says the 5-6 Holy Cross  always the screw-off."  "Purdue-Calumet is not one ofour  
resident. "I'm excited about our season. Wc'rc a really close team this year. We weren't last year -there  Pantcllcria says they play music during practice, and whenever Head Coach Wood tells them to  favorite teams. They have been in the finals of the Roundball Classic for the last two years," says co­ 
were  personalities conflicts.  Now  "entertain their defense," she starts  captain Pantellcria.  
we  all get along great," says Pan­ dancing.  Eventually, Kris Pantdlcria plans  
tcllcria.  on  going to graduate school. This  
"I feel bad because I'm supposed  summer  she  hopes  to  find  a  job  
Being one of the two upperclas­ to be setting a good example for the  related to her field. Right now her  
smen on  the team, the leadership  freshmen," she says with a smile.  intentions arc focused upon playing  
responsibilities  arc  definitely  The added team support has made  in the Roundball Classic, sprained  
present,  but  for  Pantcllcria  it  is  a difference.  ankle or not.  

STUDY IN EUROPE 
The University of Louvain (est. 1425), Leuven, Belgium offers COMPLETE PROGRAMMES IN PHILOSOPHY FOR THE DEGREES OF 
8.A, M.A.. AND Ph.D. plus A JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD PROGRAMME 
All courses are 1n English Tu1tion is 11.500 Belgium Franks ( :t: $250) 
!/~·~
~vnte to: Seoe111r1o Eng11sn f>rog11onunes 
3
><ara•nul Merc..rpleln 2. B-3000 ~n. BeiQllJIJl "'· I. a 
KULeuven 'i:vlf 


By MIKE CARDINALE 
Jports Wrtter 
Intercontinental Heavyweight Champion Tito Santana, Ricky Steamboat, Pedro Morales and the "Macho Man," Randy Savage, will highlight a six-match card as the World Wrestling Federation returns to the ACC tomorrow night for its premiere engagement of 1986. 
The main event will be Santana's title defense against Savage in a match that promises an unusual mix of beauty and brutality. The beauty will be in the person of the Macho Man's stunning manager Elizabeth, who has delighted, and distracted, wrestling fans in recent months. 
Savage himself wiU provide the brutality, as he attempts to wrest the championship belt from Santana with a style that leaves no respect for the rules or the referee. 
In other matches, Steamboat will square off against his bitter rival Don "The Magnificent" Muraco. Morales will tackle Tiger Chung Lee, and Big John Studd will be matched against Tony Atlas. Rounding out the card, 
S.D. Jones will face WWF newcomer Hercules Hernandez and the poet laureate of wrestling, Leaping Lanny Poffo, will take on the cagey veteran, Rene Goulet. 
Tickets for this exciting card arc on sale at the Gate I 0 box office of the ACC for S12 and S9. All the ac­tion begins at 8 p.m. 


The Observer Friday, january 24, 1986-page 14 
Durso contributes a great amount to Irish wrestling team as freshman 
By RICK RIETBROCK honors, and his victory total ranks one thing he has to improve, 
however, it is getting away from his opponent." The 134-pounder says that with time, that area will improve. 
"I think that I need to improve my strength a bit," Durso says. "Experience will definitely help me a lot as well." 
Durso is not ready to relax, despite his impressive showing thus far. He has some dreams that he hopes to attain somewhere down the road. 
"This year, I definitely want to go to Nationals," he says. "My main goal when I came here, though, was to be an NCAA champ someday." 

At the present time, Jerry and his teammates are preparing to com­pete in the National Catholic Tournament in Cleveland, Ohio this weekend. 
"Coach McCann really wants this tourney," Durso adds. "It will be tough, but we are confident we can win." 
McCann says that the host team, John Carrol, will be gunning for the Irish. 
"Their coach realizes that we have a young team and they probably think it is their last shot at us for a while," the coach explains. "However, ifwe continue to wrestle well, as we have been lately, we definitely can win this weekend." 

I I I I I 
~ 
I 
1 
l ~ 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 16 
test for us Sunday. They're a Final Four team, if not a national cham­pionship team. We'll see how good we are. I just hope they don't beat us by40." 
Most Notre Dame fans will remember Smith as the Tar Heel player whose dunk with three seconds left gave North Carolina its win over the Irish last year. That game still stands as a sore spot for Notre Dame. 
"If last year's game film doesn't motivate our players, then they shouldn't get on the bus Saturday morning to go to Chicago. That's what itcomes down to," Phelps says. 
This will be another tough weekend of basketball for the Tar Heels. For the second consecutive weekend, they will play games on both Saturday and Sunday. 
Last weekend, North Carolina beat No. 2 Duke, 95-92, on Saturday and then flew to Milwaukee for a come-from-behind 66-64 win over Marquette on Sunday. With Georgia Tech on Saturday and Notre Dame on Sunday this weekend, both at home, the Heels run into a similar situation. 
Many people would think that North Carolina coach Dean Smith was crazy when making such a gruel­ing schedule, but Phelps says ot­herwise, adding that the Heels' game with Georgia Tech will have no ef­fect on Sunday's contest. 
"Dean has made his schedule this year knowing that he has a very talented team. It will be good preparation for March, when you have games so close to each other 
Phelps says that his team cannot afford to relax, even if it should get out to a sizeable lead because Carolina can pull itself even very quickly. 
"They never lose their poise and they always play hard," says the Irish coach. "They do a great job of playing from behind, so you better not relax even if you get up 1 0 points because their pressure defense will get them right back in 
it." 
The key in this game, though, will be how well Notre Dame can shut down the awesome Carolina of­fense, and Phelps leaves no doubt that the Irish will be prepared to do just that. 
"We'll be ready by Sunday," he pronounces. "Trust me." 
IRISH ITEMS-Gary Voce, ham­pered recently by back spasms, remains questionable for the game. A· more complete decision on his status will be made today. In addition to the win over Virginia, past Notre Dame victories over No. 1 under Phelps are: 67-61 over Ken­tucky on Dec. 27, 1980 at Freedom Hall in Louisville; 76-7 4 over DePaul on Feb. 27, 1980; 65-59 over Mar­quette on Feb. 25, 1978; 93-82 over San Francisco on March 1, 1977; and 71-70 over UCLA on Jan. 19, 1974, to end the 88-game winning streak ofthe Bruins. North Carolina holds a 10-2 lead in the series bet­ween the two teams. This is Notre Dame's first visit to Chapel Hill with the Heels scheduled to play a return game at the ACC next January. For anyone who wants to meet the team when it arrives back in South Bend, the team bus should hit campus sometime around 11:15 p.m. on Sunday. 
Sports Writer 
When Jerry Durso came to Notre Dame, he was part ofthe fourth-best recruiting class in the nation, ac­cording to Amateur Wrestling News. Durso hopes that he and his clas­smates can propel the Irish to wres­tling notoriety in the future. 
"When my class graduates, I want Notre Dame to be ranked consis­tently," the freshman says. 
"I hope to gain a reputation for this school so that after I graduate and the team continues to do well, I will know that I was a part in build­ing the program." 
Durso has good reason for this type of optimism. The Irish are cur­rently 5-2 in dual matches, and the West Millington, N.J. native sports a sparkling 25-6 record. 
This immediate success even has Head Coach Fran McCann a bit surprised. 
"Coming into the season, I knew he was good, but not this good," McCann says. "He has placed in just about every tournament we've en­tered. He is just dominating his op­ponents." 
Domination could also be used to describe Durso's high school career. While earning four letters at Ridge High School, he posted a 113-10 record, including 60 pins. These statistics earned him all-America 
Cushing and Murtagh lead SMC swimming team with dedication 
sixth on the all-time list for NewJer­sey. 
Despite this impressive back­ground, Durso was not sure how much he would contribute in his freshman season. 
"I was optimistic when I came, but I wasn't sure what to expect as far as wins and losses," says Durso, who hopes to major in business 

Jerry Durso 
management. "I was concerned mainly with improving with every match. I came in with a good class, which provides excellent competi­tion in practice." 
McCann says the work in practice has been a major factor in Durso's success. 
"Jerry's a very hard worker," the coach says. "He has a lot of drive, determination and heart. If there is 


ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's swim team co­captains Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh do double duty for the Belles at team meets. When they aren't competing in an event, the two are backing the other swimmers at poolside. Cushing provides sup­port simply by remaining calm, while Murtagh encourages her teammates by cheering them on in the water. 
Cushing, a long distance swimmer from LaGrange, lll., specializes in the 500, 1000 and 1650-yard freestyle events. Murtagh, from Toledo, Ohio, is a sprinter and middle distance swimmer who competes in the 50, 100 and 200-yard freestyle events. 
The combination ofthe two as co­captains is a definite asset for the Belles. 
"Anne and Joyce are great team captains," says swimmer Meghan Rafferty, a . sophomore. "They're motivators, and they're really ded­icated to the team." 
Perhaps Cushing and Murtagh best motivate the team by their ex­amples of self-discipline. Each is 
presently working toward qualifying for the National Association oflnter­
ONCE A YEAR YOU CAN PURCHASE AT
collegiate Athletics Nationals, RETAIL SELECT ROSSIGNOL, K-2 
scheduled for March 7-9. 
DYNASTAR AND ELAN 
"Anne and Joyce are both striving SKIS, AND FOR 1¢ 
WE WILL GIVE YOU A 
hard to qualify for Nationals," says 
PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 

during the NCAA Tournament," says 

.

Phelps. "They handled it well last 
THE 1¢ SKI SALE, 
DESIGNED FOR 

week with Duke and Marquette. 
IMPRESS THAT ~ •: 
BEGINNERS AND 

"I don't care ifGeorgia Tech beats 
INTERMEDIATES
SPECIAL PERSON! ,.; · ·:
~ 
NOW GOING ONI 

them. Whatever happens on Satur­
day doesn't mean anything. It will 
Give them a suntan AND ~ 

have no bearing on what we're doing mentally." 
an acu-massage ~ 

Despite getting through the Duke and Marquette games relatively un­
SPECIAL! Jan. 25-Feb. 14, 1986 

scathed, Smith believes his team still has much to work on. ~------------------~ 
BED 10 visits $39.00 

"After reviewing those two games 
NEW! Acu-ma~sage bed 1 visit $4.50

on film," Smith says, "it's obvious · that we must start doing the things 
53 p~~ 15 mmutes BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 
Buy 3 VJstts, get one free 1 visit $2.00

we were doing earlier in the year, 
and doing them better. "Marquette outplayed us in many ways. You have to hand it to our 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

players to come back the way they 
4609 Grape Road

did. Still, we can't depend on spurts like that:in the future." 
Mishawaka 


Cushing, who has been swimming on the collegiate level for four years, believes the sport is an activity which allows her to enhance her college experience. 
"Swimming's a new dimension to school. It's a release for me, and it's also a way to meet people," she says. 
Murtagh, who is currently in her third season of swimming and was named all-American the last two seasons by advancing to the finals at Nationals, agrees. 
"Swimming adds something to school. It also helps me discipline myself," she says. 
In spite of their busy schedules, Cushing and Murtagh find time to participate in another area of Saint Mary's athletjcs. 
Cushing is president of the Ath­letic Council, and Murtagh is a representative to the council. 
Belles' swim coach Nancy Jo Kuz­mitz. "Anne is concentrating on the 500 free, and Joyce is working towards the 200 free. Joyce has dropped her time in the last two meets." 
Both swimmers attended Nation­als last season. Cushing entered the 400-yard freestyle relay event, while Murtagh swam in the 200, 400 and 800-yard freestyle relays. · 
According to Kuzmitz, the co­captains possess true leadership qualities. 
"Anne and Joyce are hard workers. Both of them are really committed to the team," she says. 
The two swimmers are leaders in the classsroom, as well. Both were named academic all-Americans last season, an honor they received not only by qualifying for Nationals but 
· also by maintaining a specific grade point average. 

~c:tcJlC3L~-----------------------------------F-rt-·d-ay_,J_a_nu_ary__2_4_,1_9_86_-_p_ag_e
__Is 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

81/T Wf /?ti?N'f fi/N!C...

L I f(fMtM/!€{{ 
WE HIIO f71?0Ff5SIONIIL.

eVERYTHING NOW.• Mf 
CIINNff7 MilK 
fM{f?i':JfNCY £0/IPMfNT

IINO Cllr'fff< JJHN... WE 
CIINN£1? HAM, 
IINP. Of CO(!!(Sf. I HIIO

Sf'l.MHfiJ WWN {J(J11(Wf!Ef?f 
CflNNEP P(IICH£'5.
PIICK£/l UCfLt.ENr

IN 'TIE 1/TliWTlC ... 
CIINNfP Q</ICHE.
fM£!?6€NCY ff?OV/5/0NS ... 

Zeto 
Thursday's Solution 

40 Residences 46 Chill 
41 Eccentric 47 Adolescent 43 Blouse style 48 Sidle 44 Fr, author 49 Obtain 45 Melange 50 Needleflsh 


. :t~:=:: ..::.:. :' .,:;:;:;:::: :.:.:.:::::. 

Kevin Walsh 
"And the next thing I knew, the whole ship just sunk right out from under me. So what's the deal with you? 


Campus 
FRIDAY 
•I2: 
I c; P.M. · Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns for Faculty and Staff, "The (:ollege Curriculum and the Special Mis­sion of Notre Dame," Dean Frank Reilly, Col· lege of Business Administration, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns Building, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, $1, Please call S293 for soup-bread reservations 

•6:00 
& 8:00P.M. · Saint Mary's Round Ball Classic, with Grace & 'Hope Colleges and Purdue at Calumet, Angela Athletic Facility 

•6:30 
P.M.· Ladies ofNotre Dame Interna­tional, ACC Monogram Room 

•6:30 
P.M. · Icthus Christian Fellowship Meeting, Library Lounge 

•7:00 
· 9:00 P.M. · Saint Mary's Opening Reception for guest artists, Donald Furst, prints and Steve Lowery., drawings and con­structions, Little Theatre and Hammes Gallery, Sponsored by until February 2I 

•7, 
9:I S & Il:30 P.M.· SAD FUm, "Witness," Engineering Auditorium, 1.SO 

•7:30 
P.M.· Play, "Mass Appeal," Washington Hall, Sponsored by Office off Student Ac· tivities and the Undergraduate Club, S3 



ACROSS 1 Epic tale 5 Alexander the 
poet 9-Alonzo 
Stagg 13 On the crest 14 Bach's 
Instrument 15 Dally TV fare 16 Seaweed 17 Greedy woman 19 Dye chemical 21 Mountain 
nymph 22 Courageous 23 Nuncupative 24 Tranquil 26 Where Gen. 
McAuliffe 
said "Nuts!" 30 Sheepllke 31 Railroad flare 32 "-the 
ramparts..." 33 Reality 34 Chanson de ­35 Scheme 36 Printing 
necessity 37 Carries 38 Dip 39 Ridiculed 41 Boats 42 Garden areas 43 Kind of cords 44 Animal-like 46 Remedy 49 Forty-niner's 
objective 51 Cooled 52 Author Wiesel 53 Insolent 54 Keel support 55 N. M. city 56 Migration 57 Thrall 
DOWN 1 H. H. Munro's 
pen name 2 Solar deity 3 Shirks 4 Manifest 5 Recumbent 6 Eye amorously 7 Tablet 

8 Document name 
9 San­10 Large: pre!. 11 Was In arrears 12 Russ. letters 14 Pointed arch 18 Provoked 20 Neck hair 23 Kilns 24 Bulgarian city 25 Daleor 
Maurice 26 Conveyed 27 Girl in a 
children's tale 
28 Football Hall of Farner Greasy­
29 Coastal birds 31 Holidays 34 Placer mining 
find 35 Elysium 37 Relationship 38 Places 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame · Roast Top Round Beef Sausage Jambalya Beer Batter Perch Pepper Egg Hoagie 
TV Tonight 
7:30P.M.  1b  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFortune  11:30P.M.  
8:00P.M.  16  Misfits ofScience  
22  The Twilight Zone  
28  Webster  
10:00P.M.  16  Miami Vice  

... You been here long or what?" 
•7:30 & 9:30P.M.· Friday Night FUm Series, "The Brother From Another Plane~" Annen­berg Auditorium 
• •7:.30 P.M. · Super Bowl Suitcase Party II, South Dining Hall, SS for junior participants in raffle; S I for each non-participant 
SATURDAY 
•8:00 
A.M. · :\:00 P.M. · Graduate Manage­ment Admissions Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•10:30 
A.M. · Saint Mary's Art Department Lecture, Steve Lowery presents a slide and lecture on his work, Room 232 Moreau llall 

•6:0Q. 
10:00 P.M. ·Junior Class Tubing, Bendix Woods, Sponsored by Class of'87, S4 


•7,9:1S& II:30P.M.-SABMovie,"Witness," Engineering Auditorium, S l.c;o 
SUNDAY 
•I:OO · 4:00 P.M. · Opening Exhibition, Urban America, an exhibition ofphotographs, O'Shaughnessy Gallery East, (until April I3 ), 
Saint Mary's Grilled Rueben Fish & Chips Frittata Chimachungas 
22 Falcon Crest 28 The Fall Guy 
16 Tonight Show 22 CBS late Movie: "The Five of 
Me" 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Star Trek 
,#Jrrison Ford is John Book. 
A big city cop. A smallcountry boy. 
_____They have nothing incommon ...Qut a murder._____ 


__] 
SRorts 
12-2 Irish travel to North Carolina to take on No. 1 ranked Tar Heels 
ByJEFF BLUMB nation, and outscored its opponents round out the core of a formidable SportsEditor by a margin.of 28.6 points. In seven front line. of their 19 games, the Heels have The Carolina backcourt chores 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Most sports scored more than 100 points. are handled by Kenny Smith, Steve fans around the country believe that Hale and freshman Jeff Lebo. Each of the biggest game of the year takes Center Brad Daugherty, at 6-11 the three is an excellent playmaker. place on Sunday. and 245 pounds, leads the Carolina Smith has 118 assists this season to 
And while the Notre Dame basket­scoring with 20.2 points a game. go along with an 11.1 scoring ball team feels much the same, the Daugherty backs his scoring up with average. Irish do not believe that game will 8.6 rebounds a game. 
Hale, a scrappy senior, averagesbe played in New Orleans between 11.6 point per game and has 92 as­the Bears and Patriots. Instead, in sists to his credit. He did not play last their minds, the biggest game will be year in Carolina's 60-58win over thehere in the recently opened Student Irish in the second round of theActivities Center, where they face NCAA Tournament because of aNo. 1 North Carolina ( 1 p.m., NBC­separated shoulder suffered in aTV). 

first-round game with Middle Ten­In past years, Notre Dame has had nessee State. 

agood amount ofsuccess against the top-ranked team in the country. Six 
Lebo, one of the most highly times since Digger Phelps has been 
sought prep guards in the nation last coach of the Irish has Notre Dame year, contributes 8.8 points per upset No. 1, but the Irish have never 
game. pulled off the feat on the road (four 
"The thing that's scary is that times at home, twice at a neutral North Carolina has so many site). The last win over No. 1 was a 
weapons," says Phelps. "With Daug­
Kenny Smith 

57-56 win over Virginia at the 
herty, Wolf, Papson and Martin, they Rosemont Horizon during the 1980-But he is only one of many threats 
can really hurt you up front because 81 season. on the Heel front line. Warren Mar­
of their size, yet they still have greatWhen the 12-2 Irish meet the Tar tin, Joe Wolf and Dave Popson all 
quickness and outside shooting with Heels, 19-0 heading into an ACC could pose problems for the Irish if 

Smith, Lebo and Hale. clash with No. 4 Georgia Tech left unchecked. Martin, as big as tomorrow ( 3 p.m., NBC-TV), they Daugherty at 6-11, 243 pounds, "When we played them last year, figure to have their hands full in comes off the bench to add 8.2 we had to try to match up with them more ways than one. In the process points and 5.8 rebounds. physically and then just make every of becoming No. 1, North Carolina possession count. It will be a good has averaged a whopping 93.2 At 6-10 and 6-9, respectively, 
see IRISH, page 14points a game, third highest in the Wolf(8.1, 6.3) and Popson(5.4, 3.5) 

Notre Dame beats Ramblers, 75-54 
By MIKE S2YMANSKI coach Mary DiStanislao. "We kept get rebounds. Offensively, I have to Sports Writer our turnovers to a minimum while post up myself." taking good shot selections. Ifwe do Notre Dame guard Mary Gavin 
The Notre Dame women's basket­that, we can afford to have a lower was assigned the difficult task ofcon­ball team dominated Loyola in every shooting percentage. taining Loyola point guard Sharon facet of the game last night in its 75-"It was about time our inside Carr, which she accomplished with 54 victory. Rebounding from a flat game came around. We have a very tight defense and help from co­appearence in the loss against Bos­young team, and that type of thing captain guard Lynn Ebben. "Our ton University last week, the Irish requires experience. We also stayed main objective was to stop Carr," showed the consistency needed to out offoui trouble." said Ebben. win the North Star Conference. Notre Dame's man-to-man "McNerney and Busiel are physi­
Notre--Dame scored on its first defense was so effective that two cal types who are real offensive four possessions and never looked Loyola starters, forward Maureen threats. They just did not have good back. While shooting for only a .446 McNerney and center Sue Busiel, games." field goal percentage, they were did not score. That can be attributed Ebben provided the spark needed strong on both offensive and in part to the fine inside workoflrish to spur the Irish offense with a game defensive boards, netting 45 forward Lavetta Willis. high 10 assists. "It is important to get rebounds against Loyola's 33. "We played well as a team offensive production from her," said 
"We controlled the basketball defensively," said Willis. "We DiStanislao. "The crucial lane of tonight better than in any other wanted to stop them from posting 
see WOMEN, page 12 game this season," said Irish head up inside by fronting them, and to 

Friday,January 24, 1986-page 16 

Notre Dame guard Lynn Ebben ( 12) guards a Loyola player in last night's contest against the Ramblers. The Irish beat Loyola, 75-54, behind Ebben's 10 assists and Trena Keys' 22 points. Mike Szymanski details the game at left. 
Women's fencing squad starts season out very well 
ByTRISH SULLIVAN tournament and for the Irish is sop­Sports Writer homore Molly Sullivan (North An­dover, Mass.). Sullivan was the top It's easy to be optlmtstlc when women's fencer last season with a you have everything going for you. shining 43-4 re~ord while receiving That's the position that Head second-team all-America honors fol­Coaches Mike DeCicco and Yves lowing a fifth-place finish in the na­Auriol are in with the Notre Dame tionals. Her slate is perfect thus far women's fencing team. with a 14-0 record following the 
The youthful squad earned its tournament. wings following a challenging "Molly is a fantatstic fencer, season a year ago, compiling a 12-7 probably one of the best if not therecord and capturing ninth-place in best in the country," lauds DeCicco. 
the NCAA tournament. In addition, "But she isn't quite up to her poten­the team graduates no starters while tial yet if she hopes to get the title.
returning four. 
She has the abiliW is she trains hard"The women's statistics have enough.
been impressive so far," says DeCicco. "and though their perfor­"Molly is excellent for the team as mance hasn't been perfect, I'd say well. Her fencing gets the other girls that we are on track." on the squad going and as a whole 
The only competition of the they fence better." 
season has come at the USFA Col­"Sullivan is one of the top fencers legiate Open in Chapel Hill, N.C., in the country, and could win a where the women came out on top NCAA Championship in the spring," 
as a team and scored big in in­dividual bouts. The top fencer ofthe see FENCING, page 12 
Rivers and Irish looking forward to big chance 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -One could almost sense the im­pending celebration by the Notre Dame basketball team. The Irish were about to beat North Carolina in the second round ofthe 1985 NCAA Tournament. 

The ball was in the hands of David Rivers as the final seconds ticked off the clock with the score tied at 58. Rivers, the architect of so many other storybook endings during the season, surely would write another this time around. The worst that could happen was that the Irish would have to go to overtime. 
Or so it all seemed. 
in one fleeting moment, the ball somehow glanced off Rivers' leg and into the hands of North Carolina's Curtis Hunter. Hunter fed Kenny Smith and Smith raced to the other end of the court for a dunk which gave the Heels the win. 
Somehow, some way, the story ofCinderella had turned into the Amityville Horror. 
Nary a spectator in the ACC could believe what he had witnessed. Rivers, the sure-handed one all season, had made the crucial turnover instead of the crucial basket 
It has been over 10 months since that game, but the memory ofhis turnover lingers with Rivers, who had never expP.rienced anything like it in his career. 
"It comes to mind every time I hear the words North 
Carolina. That's only natural. But maybe that will help me 
to have a better game this time around," Rivers muses as he 
Jeff Blumb Sports Editor 

prepares for another go at the Tar Heels on Sunday. 
Rivers also will get another chance to face the talented Smith, rated the nation's top point guard by some experts. "I look forward to playing against Kenny Smith," Rivers says. "It's a challenge. He's one ofthe best point guards, and I feel that I'm one ofthe best, too." 
North Carolina will be either 20-0 or 19-1, depending on the result of its game with Georgia Tech Saturday, when the Irish face the Heels. Let there be no doubt, the Irish would like to see Carolina unbeaten when the ball goes into the air on Sunday. 
"I want them to be No. 1 and unbeaten. That way if we beat them there will be no excuses," Rivers says. "They're going to be vulnerable, especially ifthey haven't lost yet." 
Either way, expect Rivers to have one of his best games ever. The way his career has gone so far, you almost have to expect it. 
• 
For those of you who care, here are my picks for this eventful sports weekend. First, North Carolina will beat 
Georgia Tech here on Saturday to set up a classic Irish-Tar Heel showdown on Sunday. 
Notre Dame then will shutdown the potent Carolina of­fense in that game, holding the Heels' leading scorer Brad Daugherty under double figures. And, while it will be dif­ficult, the Irish will break the vaunted Carolina press the way they've broken so many other presses this season. 
To go out on a limb, the Irish will win this one going away to pull off a classic upset in front ofa national televi­sion audience. 
But, hey, let's not forget about the Super Bowl (although _ that would be pretty hard with all the hype we have to put ~w~} ­
To go out on yet another limb, and probably a much weaker one at that, I'm going to go with the Patriots. Some have said that the Bears are a dynasty and a team ofdestiny, but I'm sticking with the Pats. 
No one gave them a chance against the Raiders and yet they won. Then people gave them less of a chance against Miami and again they won. This time many peoJ!!e are giving them virtually no chance at all, and again they will overcome the odds and win. 
Hopefully, New llngland will win Sunday. It will be eit­her me or all those obnoxious Bears fans with egg on our face Monday. 






