Car care -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. 95 
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 19, 1986 
3 SBP tickets attend first 
•

pre-campaign rule meeting 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
StaffReporter 
Three potential candidates for 
Notre Dame student body president 
attended the first pre-campaign 
meeting last night. 
In attendance were Jim 
Domagalski, Bruce Lohman, and 
Mike Millen. 
Laurie Bink, Domagalski's tentative running mate, also at­tended the informational meeting held by Ombudsman. Jim Crandall, Lohman's tentative running mate, and Sheila O'Connor, Millen's tentative running mate, were not present. 
The purpose of last night's meeting was "to help the campaign machine get going and for the future candidates to ask about the rules," said Tom Brennan, Ombudsman election officer. 
Petitions for candidacy will be: dis­tributed at tomorrow's 7 p.m. man­datory meeting for all student body president and student body vice president candidates in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The peti­tion.~ will be: due at '5 p.m. next Mon­day in the Ombudsman office. The official candidate list will be posted the following afternoon. 
Campaigning will extend from ll:OI a.m. Wednesday, February 26 until I I :'59 p.m. the following Mon­day. The student body elections will be held Tuesday, March 4. 
WVFI, the student AM radio sta­tion, may cover a possible candidate debate, Brennan said. 
According to Brennan, several new campaign rules will be in effect this year to help avoid any viola­tions. 
Last year the Pat Brown -Joanie Cahill ticket violated several regula­tions, including printing more posters than allowed and being en­dorsed in the Stanford Hall newslet­ter. 
see ELECTION, page 3 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Punishment for parietals violators discussed by CLC 

By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus life Campus devoted more than an hour to discussing a proposal to lessen the punishment for overnight parietal violations in most cases, yet took no action on the proposal at yesterday's CLC meeting. 
However, CLC members did en­dorse the concept of a University course on alcohol awareness and voiced general approval for a Sop­homore Sibs weekend, which they will vote on at the next meeting. 

The CLC also voted down a proposal to allow The Observer to print the voting records of in­dividual CLC members. 
The parietal violations proposal, submitted by Junior Bruce Lohman, would prevent administrators from suspending or dismissing those stu­dents with no previous disciplinary records who have violated the over­night parietals rule. 
Lohman's proposal would eliminate from the student hand­book du Lac the provision that "overnight parietal violations in­volve suspension or dismissal." 
Inserted in its place would be: the statement, "Upon consideration of all relevant circumstances, an over­night parietal violation by a student who has a previous disciplinary record may result in suspension or dismissal. Violation by a student who has no previous disciplinary record shall involve any penalty ex­cluding suspension or dismissal." 
According to Lohman, overnight parietals violations now receive a punishment similar to those levied for selling drugs, seriously hurting others or violating the University's
1'he Obtlervcr /aoben Jones 

sex code. 
Take a bow 
"I don't put parietals violations 

An unidentified violinist from the Notre Dame Chamber Or­into the category of offenses that 
chestra rehearses for a concert scheduled for March 4 in Sacred those three would seem to 
Heart Church. The concert, perfonned with the Notre Dame describe," he said, adding that his 
Chorale, features music by Mahler and Mozart. 
proposal would distinguish the punishment for overnight parietal 
violations from more severe viola­
tions. 
Several CLC members questioned 
the effect Lohman's proposal would 
have on disciplinary procedures. 
Associate Vice President for 
Residence Life John Goldrick said 
the outcome of Lohman's proposal 
would result in different punish­
ments being levied in the same case, 
such as when "the male has the rat· 
her shaky record and the female has 
no record whatsoever." 
"You have a decision for the same act that will result in such blatant in­consistency that the stu­dents would be: climbing the administration steps (protesting)," Goldrick said. 
CLC members also debated a 
statement made by Lohman saying 
that "a students with no previous 
disciplinary record is an example 
student." 
Alumni rector Father George Rozum said it's "not true that a stu­dent who has no record is also an ex­ample student. I have had experiences with students I have had in the past who I learned the mo­ment after they were gone that they were blatant parietal violators ...." 
Several times near the end of the meeting, CLC members attempted to take a straw vote on where in­dividual members stood on the issue. Those attempts failed, however, and members agreed to take Lohman's proposal up at the next meeting. 
Before Lohman had presented his proposal, tne CLC:.: dio a!Vee to en­dorse the concept of a University course on alcohol and alcohol abuse. 
Senior Mark Herkert, who brought the proposal to the council, cited scores of statistics which sup­ported a class devoted to al­coholism. Taking into account statistics indicating one in eight Americans are affiicted with some 
seePARIETALS, page3 


Confidential pregnancy counseling available at ND, SMC 
Editor's note: This is the last  problem, however, is  not fully  nant  women  choose  outside  occur only in marriage. Violation  dent at the College can live in on·  
day  of a  three-day  series  ex­ known since  an  undetermined  help. In more than four years as a  shall involve suspension or dis­ campus  housing  during  her  
amining  sex  Issues  at  Notre  number of women choose not to  counselor  at  the  University,  missal," Malloy said no discipli­ pregnancy.  
Dame and Saint Mary's. Today's  confide in the services offered by  Steibe said she can only remem­ nary  action  is  taken when  an  Sister jean Lenz, assistant vice  
story  deals  wtth  pregnancy­ the institutions, said Notre Dame  ber "about four cases which dealt  unmarried Notre Dame student  president  for  student  aflil.irs,  
related issues at both schools.  Associate Provost Father Edward  with  unmarried  pre~~nt  stu­ informs the University that she is  commented  that  Notre  Dame  
By SCOIT BEARBY Assistant News Editor "Turmoil, both ·spiritual  and  Malloy. "The problem is discovery. Help is readily available to women who need it, both finan­ Campus  pregnant. Malloy said people in this situa­tion are suffering enough under the circumstances. Any further  "would not put anyone out, but would try to work with the rec­tor to help the student make the best decision."  
physical," is a natural reaction when a single woman discovers  cial and morally," Malloy said. He added that some unmarried  Sexuality  action by the University would get in the way of responding to  Malloy added that even when on-campus housing is available to  
she  is  pregnant,  according  to  women choose not to make their  the individual's need, he said.  an  unmarried pregnant woman,  
Deborah  Rogers,  executive  pregnancies public  because  of  At Salnt Mary's there is "no  she may wish to remain in more  
director of the  Women's Care  the  stigma  still  attached  to  dents. This is out or 50U or so  College policy (that) says she  family-supported surroundings.  
Center.  unwed pregnancies and because  cases I have worked on."  can't stay" if a woman becomes  If a pregnant woman does not  
Across  college  campuses  they are afraid to ask what help is  Fear of disciplinary action is  pregnant,  according  to  Mary  wish to remain living on campus  
women  face  the  reality of un­ available on campus.  also a reason some women will  Depauw,  director  of the  Saint  but does want to stay in school,  
planned pregnancy and the deci­ Susan  Steibe,  clinical  psyc­ not inform Notre Dame of their  Mary's  counseling  and  career  other  housing  options  are  
sions which accompany it. The  hologist at  the Counseling and  pregnancy, according to Malloy.  development center.  available to her. Penny Jameson,  
Notre  Dame  and  Saint  Mary's  Psychological  Services  Center,  Despite  the  Notre  Dame  According  to  Mary  Ann  chairman  of  the  Saint  Mary's  
campuses are  not exempt from  concurred with Malloy's opinion,  sexuality code in du Lac, which  O'Donnell,  director  of student  
this scenario. The extent of the  saying that most unmarried preg­ states that "sexual union should  activities at Saint Mary's,  a stu­ see PREGNANT, page 5  

The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
Lottery in the works? A resolution to lift Indiana's constitutional ban on lotteries cleared the House amendment stage unchanged Tuesday, despite several amendment efforts. The lottery resolution has been approved in the Senate four ofthe last five years, but this was the first year it was approved in the House Commerce Committee and received debate on the House floor. IfSenate Joint Resolution 3 is approved in the House, it would have to be approved again by either the 1987 or 1988 Legislature and by voters in ~ statewide referendum before the 135-year-old constitutional ban on lotteries could be lifted. The earliest a lottery could go into effect would be 1989. -AP 
Of Interest · · 
Radio Free Notre Dame, WVFI's public affairs program, will feature the topic of religion at Notre Dame tonight at 
11.Joinjohn Rogers and Reginald Daniel and their guests as they ask: Are other religous groups locked out? Listeners may call in their comments and questions at 239-6400. -Tbe Observer 
Spiritual Rock will hold a Christian Fellowship meeting tonight at 7 in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. All are welcome. -Tbe Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh will speak on "A 
Christian Appraisal of the Crisis in South Africa" tonight at 7 in Howard Hall. All are invited. -Tbe Observer 
The Thomas More Society of Notre Dame will hold a short but important general meeting tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. · Tbe Observer 
The N.D. Shakespeare Club will hold a 
meeting tonight at 7 in the library auditorium lounge.-Tbe Observer 
Farmworker Week will be topic of tonight's discus­sion at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited to participate for the support ofMidwestern farm workers. -Tbe Obser­
ver 

Jodie Cantwell and Vince Willis, members 
ofthe Around the Corner club, will be the guests on WVFI's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 11. Lynne Strand will interview them on the club's future and its headquarters in renovated Chautau­qua. Calls from listeners will be taken at 239-6400.-Tbe Observer 
The Kellogg Institute is sponsoring a lecture to be held today at 4 in room 112 ofthe Law School Building. Larissa Lom­nitz, professor of anthropology at the University of Mexico, will speak on "Origins and Development of a Bourgeoisie: Family and Enterprise in Mexico. -Tbe Observer 
"Optimism -the Worst Contraceptive" 
will be the topic ofa discussion by Karen Wians and Ella Harmeyer in 
the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's tonight at 7. ­

Weather 

A huge daquiri (lime, perhaps?) is what the quads will look like today as the rest of the snow melts. Fog lifting this morning, then partly cloudy. High 45 to 50. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers. Low 35 to 40. A 60 percent chance of showers tomorrow. High near 50. 
Tbe Observer 



Design Editor ................................Andy Saal Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Design Assistant ................. Robert Luxem Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Typesetters ......................................Pat Clark Features Layout.........................Carey Gels 
Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor......................Ellen Mastako News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann SMC Day Editor............................... MJ Sully Copy Editor..................... Ma.rk Mclaughlin AdDesign .................................. Fred Nelson Sports Copy Editor............. Marty Strassen Kimberly Brown Sports Special Layout............ Marty Bums Photographer .......................... Robert jones 
Viewpoint Copy Editor........... Tim Adams 
lbr Obsuver ( l'SPS ~99 l-~000) i• puhli•hed :\lunda)· through Friday ext·ept during exam and ,·acarion JXriod.s. lb.~ Obsrrv~r i~ published h~ the studenb <)fthe t·ni\·er~it~ of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mar he purcha,..d for SW pt"r year ( SZU per semester) b)' writing Thr Obsrrver, P.O. Box<}. :-.mre Dame. Indiana ~M~6. 
Tbr ~rver is a member of Thr Associated Press. Ail reprodul'lion ri!(hts are 
~St"rv~d 



Establish credit rating now and you'll be able to pay later 
Picture yourself as a Notre Dame graduate with a shiny new diploma and a lucrative job offer. The world's at your command, right? 
Not exactly. 

Unless you have built up a credit history, you probably won't be able to take out a loan for a car or rent an apartment without a co-signer. 
We've all heard of this mythical credit rating but few of us know exactly what this "rating" is. Actually the term is something ofa misnomer. A credit rating is not a number or grade to be pasted beside your name. Ac­cording to Dewery Watkins, personal banking officer at First Source Bank, one's credit rating is really an ac­cumulation of information gathered and maintained by the Credit Bureau. 
The term credit rating is interchangeable with the term credit history. It includes information about banking and checking accounts you have held, loans you have taken and credit cards you have held. Banks 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
If you have trouble making payments, the best thing to do is contact your lender and tell them what your problem is. Most lenders, said Watkins, are willing to work out something if you are unable to meet your full payments for a short time. If you arrange to make reduced payments for a short time, your credit history will remain unharmed. 
What happens if you have a problem with a lender that is not your fault? For example, what if you are billed for a purchase that you later returned? 
Watkins advises that youand companies with whom 
you have credit report on trace the mistake back to the the status ofyour account to source. Talk to a person, not the Credit Bureau. Thus the a computer or a recording, Credit Bureau will have on and explain your concern. file whether or not you paid Often, they will ask that you 
a given account as agreed, send a copy of your request had slow payments, or in writing. defaulted on any payments. After you have worked 
When a bank considers out any billing difficulty, 
you for a loan, or a landlord make sure you request that considers you as a tenant, the lender inform the Credit they first obtain a copy of Bureau of the mistake or your credit history from the misunderstanding. If this 
Credit Bureau. According to correction does not go into Watkins, they will consider the Credit Bureau, the your record for at least the problem will remain on past seven years. Such your record. problems as constantly late You can obtain a copy of 
payments could cause you your credit history from the to be denied a loan. Credit Bureau for a nominal 
How does one establish a good credit history when it is difficult to get credit without such a history? 
Watkins advises that you start small. 
Establish a savings and checking account and take a small loan against that account. In paying that loan back in a timely manner, you will have begun to establish credit. 
Perhaps the best way to establish a credit history is to use one or two charge cards regularly and pay them back as agreed, said Watkins. You don't need to obtain every card available, however. This is a mistake some people make, said Watkins, and they can find them­selves in over their heads. 
Once you have begun to establish credit, it is impor­tant not to let your payments slip. Slow-paying borrowers (those who habitually turn in payments more than 30 days late) and those who let even a small balance go unpaid will often be refused credit, said Wat­kins. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
GUADALAJARA 


SUMMER 

SCHOOL 

University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthropology, art, bilingual educa­tion, ESL, folk music and folk dance, history, political science, sociol­ogy, Spanish language and literature and inten­sive Spanish. Six-week session. June 3D-Au­gust 8, 1986. Fully ac­credited program. Tui­tion $480. Room and board in Mexican home $520. 
EEOIAA 
Write GuadalajaraSummer School 

Education Bldg., Room 434 l)llversity of Arizona Tucson. AZ 85721 (602) 621-4729 or 621-4720 

Special StudentI Youth Fares to 


SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, ASia, Africa and the Middle East. Winter Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 Summer Fares Now Available! 
fee. According to Watkins, the bureau will also explain any questions you have about this record. 
The credit rating is not, after all, such a mystical term. It is simply a record of how you have used credit in the past. But a well-established credit history, along with a shiny new diploma and a lucrative job offer, can make the transition into post-undergraduate life just a little bit easier. 
~ingAdvice .···~ ca_nsa~e
.. 


alife /,, · 
,..,.. 
.....· 

The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 3 

HPC objects to 'no conflict' clause included in proposed constitution 

ByALEX PELTZER 
CopyEditor 
The Hall Presidents' Council last night objected to clauses of the proposed student government con­stitution that some members claimed took too much power away from the council. 
HPC chairman Kevin Howard ob­jected in particular to the clause that stated that the HPC is autonomous but could not conflict with the con­stitution, bylaws or policies of the Student Senate. 
"I don't agree with the last part about conflict," Howard told the council. "If we're autonomous, we're autonomous." Howard sug­gested that the HPC recommend striking that part ofthe clause. 
But Zahm Hall resident Vince Willis said the rationale behind the clause was that the new structure of the government was designed to be centralized. 
"People were scared that there was more than one legislative body," Willis said. 
Brian Holst, a member of the stu­dent restructuring committee that designed the constitution, presented it to the HPC. He ex· plained that the biggest change from the present constitution Is the Stu­dent Senate's increased number of members. 
Under the new provisions, the senate will consist of 28 members, one each from the 24 dorms on campus and two members to represent off-campus students. Grace and Flanner would receive one extra member each. Holst said this would assure the dorm representation in legislative matters that the HPC now has. 
But the·Council argued that they are losing the check on the senate that they now have. They objected in particular to a provision that al­lows the senate, through a three quarters vote of its members but no consent of the HPC, to amend the constitution. 

Howard argued that this puts the existence of the HPC Into the hands of the senate. 
But Holst argued that because the senate is representative ofthe dorms this would never happen. 
Jim Hagan, who also worked o..; the restructuring committee, added that the emphasis ofthe changes was not to take power away from the HPC, but rather to make the voice of the students unified in one body, the senate. 
"We want one body to speak for the students' concerns," Hagan said. 
Howard suggested the council wait until the senate passes the proposed consitution before voting on it themselves. The senate is set to vote on the constitution tonight. lf the senate passes it, the HPC wiU meet tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. to decide whether or not to ratify it. 
junior Mike Berens mans tbe phones in a pbone-a-tbon to benefit tbe Women's Care Center in South Bend. 
Do you have a way with 
The Accent department of The Observer is looking for talented features writers. 
?
•

Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review campus entertainment and interview celebrities. 
For more Information contact Mary Healy at The Observer 239-5313 
on 

and Hent]Y.­
at 
~ ~~~~~~i:i5......

ickets $20.0Ckan~ purrbased from Conn1e-Rm 309 O'Sh~ uses depart from Main C1rc1e at ~PM and r-eturn ar · 


Parietals 
continuedfrom page I 
form ofthe disease, Herkert said that means at "Notre Dame, give or take a few, 1000 can or do have the problem ofalcoholism." 
Herkert proposed that the Univer­sity Implement a three credit course to educate students on alcohol awareness. He noted some of the possible objections to his proposal, such as whether there would be 
enough  student interest.  "I  think  
there would," he said.  
Because  faculty  and  ad­ 

ministrators must approve such a course before it is implemented, the CLC could only endorse the proposal. Healy said he would take the council's endorsement of "the general concept" of such a class to Vice President for Student Affalrs Father David Tyson with the goal of Tyson discussing it with Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
CLC members also voiced general support for a Sophomore Sibs weekend, although they did not om­cially approve junior Steve Taeyaerts'proposal. 
Several CLC members expressed some disapproval that such provi­sions as limiting sophomores to 100 of their younger siblings between the ages of II and 14 being allowed to attend may be too restrictive. 
Taeyaerts said the age limit is designed to prevent the drinking problems that occurred at the previous little Sibs weekend. He added that the small size ofthe event would allow problems that arise to be addressed on a small scale, which would improve the chances of having subsequent weekends.' 
After Taeyaerts makes certain changes in the proposal, such as in­creasing the number of siblings allowed to attend and adding a rule that sophomores could oniy bring siblings who are the same sex as they, he will bring the proposal back to the CLC. lfthe CLC approves the proposal, it would then go to Tyson for his approval. 
Before Taeyaerts' made his proposal, Observer Editor-in-Chief 
Student Body President Bill Healy, who proposed the $30 increase,


Election 
said, "I want the best candidate to continued/rom page I win. He should be given the ability to prove that he's the best can­
This year the student senate didate." upped the amount of money a can­Healy noted that people asked didate can spend campaigning by him for copies ofhis platform during $30. The maximum amount allowed last year's campaign, but there were is now $125. never enough to distribute. "The 
Georgetown 
Programs at home 
0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
0 Approaches to Teaching Writing 
0 English as a Foreign Language 
0 Government Internships 
0 High School Programs 
0 Intercultural Training 
0 Interpretation and Translation Institute 
0 Language Courses 
0 Theology Conference 
0 Literary Criticism Conference 
0 Parish Workshop 
0 Sacred Scripture Institute 
0 Alumni College 
Sessions 
Pre-May 19-Junc 13 First-June 9-July 11 8-WcckCro53Scssion-June 9-August 1 6-Wcck Cro53 Sc53ion-June 23-August 1 Second-July 14-August 15 
University Summer Sessions 1986 

Programs abroad 
0 Antwerp, Belgium-lnt'l. Trade 0 China-Chinese 0 Dijon, France-French 0 Fiesole,ltaly-ltalian0 Leningrad, V.S.S.R.-Ru53ian 0 Oxford, E~land-Business 
AdministratiOn 0 Quito, Ecuador-Spanish 0 Trier, West Germany-German 
Send more information: Name _____ 
Address----------­
--------ZiP'---­
Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to: SSCE-Gcorgetown University 306 Intercultural Center Washington. D.C. 20057 
Sarah Hamilton, saying council members should stand behind their votes, requested that the CLC allow The Observer to print individual CLC members' voting records. 
Explaining why the CLC had prohibited individual records from being printed, Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy said that The Obser­ver had printed an article last year "which apparently took one single person's vote and made that the stress ofthe entire article, which ap­parently slanted what was done in that meeting. A lot of people were upset ... ," 
Healy agreed with Hamilton's statement that The Observer had im­proved its coverage this year and was the oniy source of information for students on meetings of groups like the CLC. 
After several more minutes of debate, however, the council voted down Hamilton's proposal 12-2. The vote means that the CLC will con­tinue to allow Observer reporters to quote CLC members and record the final vote, but not to record in­dividuals' voting records. 
(monetary) amount hasn't been changed in a while," he said. "U 25 isn't that much for candidates to raise." 
Healy also supports the new rule concerning candidate endorse­ments from various student groups. 
Said Brennan, "Candidates can solicit endorsements from media, like the Observer, Scholastic, and WVFI, and from other student or­ganizations, like the halls and clubs. 
"But the: candidates can only be mentioned in the (student) group's minutes," he said. "Candidates would have to pay for It ifthey were endorsed In the group's newslet­ters." Endorsement forms must be signed by an executive member of the organization. 
Another new rule requests the candidates to sign a release form giving Ombudsman the: right to check area printers' receipts so no candidate goes over his I 12 5 spend­ing limit. "This makes it much easier for Ombudsman. The releases should really help out the policing aspect (of Ombudsman's job)." said Brennan. 
"We wouldn't think they (the can­didates) would have anything to hide." He added, "After last year, I don't expect anyone to break the rules." 
Brennan continued, "It's my job to be very impartial. I don't even evaluate the candidates in my own head. I will take the appropriate ac­tion ifsomeone violates the rules. I think the rules are pretty straightfor­ward." 
Healy, whose term will expire this April, said "you always learn a lot by the end that you would've done a lot ofthings differently. 


The Obserwr Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 4 

BCAF speaker warns of media stereotyping 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
Many black entertainment and sports celebrities are seriously har­ming the national black community, according to media analyst Brenda Verner. Verner spoke last Monday evening as part of the Black Cultural 
Arts  Festival  at  the  library  
Auditorium.  
Her  lecture,  entitled  "Media  

Images ofBlack and White Women," discussed both the stereotypes she said the media presents of black and white women and the "subliminal seduction" lowering the status of blacks. She said this subtle degrada· tion is projected in the entertain­ment world with the help of well-known black males. 
Verner said these entertainers think they ". . . have to show a preference for the white authority culture. They must exhibit sufficient self-hate to be willing to commit genetic suicide. Do you know what that means? They have to marry somebody white." 
Verner said Wilt Chamberlain has said in print that he would not marry a black woman. "And Kareem Abdul Jabbar tells the whole world that his white wife is the greatest thing that ever happened to him," she said. 
Verner said Richard Pryor, James Earl Jones, Harry Belafonte, and Billy Dee Williams have expressed in public their preference for white women either through action or word. 
"It's hard being a black man, and some are escaping. It's hard building institutions where there aren't any. But black men have to understand that ... marrying a white woman will not make them white," Verner said. 
"It's not that interracial marriage is an abomination. What is the abomination is the rejection of the women and children of your own race, Verner said. 
"The biggest crime committed by the white world against black 

Be responsible for placing advertising materials on your campus buBetin boards. Work on exciting marketing programs for dienls sucb as American Express, AT&T, Sony and Sierra Oub. Choose your own bours. Good experience and great money! for more information caD, 1-800-426-5537 g.5pm. (West Coast time) 
Representative Program AmeriC111 Passage 500 Third Ave West Seattle, WA 98119 

--------------· 

people is the treatment that black 
women have suffered at the hands of 
black men. We sit proudly while we 
see our so-called heroes parade 
across television and movie screens 
telling us how much they do not 
want us. It's disgusting," she said. 
"Too many black men have bought the white lie that says black women are ugly, have no taste, and are not sexually attractive," Verner said. She showed a slide presenta­tion of magazine covers, advertise­ments, and postcards from over the last 200 years that she said were derogatory to black women. The show was intended to demonstrate how the "white lie" has been promulgated. 
She also showed images she said depicted white women stereotypi­cally. 
A media consultant whose firm has advertising and network clients, Verner said this "subliminal seduc­tion" has also downgraded male and female blacks in modern television and movies. She said Miami Vice, Hill Street Blues, The Jeffersons, and Benson are examples of racist shows. 
As an example, Verner said that Mr. Jefferson is shorter than the shortest women on the show and that the leading white man is con­siderably taller. "In some states there was a written or unwritten law that a black man could not look a white man in the eye. That law is still in effect on television and film today," she said. 
Verner said blacks should write to networks and television stations against the airing of material which degrades the black community, and suppon anists like Bill Cosby who promote a positive black message. 
Verner holds degrees from Cor­nell and Harvard and was a civil rights activist during the 1960s and early · 1970s. Her protest efforts helped establish the first African studies center at Cornell. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
The University 

Song and dance 
Notre Dame's Shenanigans were featured in the Cabaret Night event at the Alumni-Senior Club last 




Incoming ND freshmen espouse traditional values, survey shows 
Spcdal to The Observer 

Most Notre Dame freshmen oppose legal abortion, revere family life, and believe that couples should not live together before marriage, according to a nationwide survey of freshmen entering private univer­sities. 
The survey, conducted last fall by the American Council on Education and the University of California at Los Angeles also indicates that more incoming Notre Dame freshmen 
(34.3 percent) describe their politi· cal orientation as "conservative" than do their counterparts at other private universities, where 25.3 per­cent of entering freshmen accept that label. 
When asked what objectives they considered "essential or very impor­tant," more Notre Dame freshmen 
\\"ith Rohen Stonnont as Pruspcn J 
Dlrecledby-Pildnt­

********************************* 
SEX 
IS NOT INCLUDED BOT ••• 
S~if\9 • Hot * p.J. 
~ Chocolate 
provided at ACC Ice Rink Feb. 20, 8-10:15 

A STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRODUCTION 
********************************* 
(80 percent) choose the raising of a family than do those in the national average, where 72.4 percent choose similarly. "Helping others in dif­ficulty" is considered a very impor­tant objective by 68.5 percent of Notre Dame's freshmen and by 66 percent ofthose at other private uni­versities. Slightly fewer Notre Dame freshmen ( 61.6 percent) think it an essential objective "to be very well off financially" than do the 66.4 per­cent in the national average, and slightly fewer at Notre Dame ( 19.4 percent) than in the national average (21.3 percent) indicate an urgent desire "to influence political structures." 
The most significant disparity bet­ween the opinions ofentering Notre Dame freshmen and those of other 
.Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWIIENDNG FOil FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
234~7/~5716 
Call Anytime 



=J_Ufl[Jc!Jd?cE 
JPW Registration 
fJfw.uda.y,  6 -10 pm  
...£a'Jo'ttune. cNew D.Je.an:i .d?oom  
'J.r.ufay,  9am-8pm  
...£a'Jo'ttune. cNew D.rfe.a.n:i d?oom  

c:Eatwc.day, 4 -8 pm d/{!{! Cnte't thwugh §ate 10 
Please Bring your 1.0. You oryour parents may register 
1br Obecrver/Roben jones 
night. They were part ofa night ofinformal enter­tainmentprovided by talented students. 
private universities occurs in a sur­vey question on legalized abortion. In the national average, 57 percent "agree strongly or somewhat" that "abortion sould be legalized" as opposed to 28.2 percent at Notre Dame. 
In a related matter, more Notre Dame freshmen (35.7 percent) favor abolition of the death penalty than their counterparts at other private universities, where 29.8 per­cent favor such abolition. Another issue on which Notre Dame fresh­men differ sharply from those in the national average is whether men and women should live together before marriage. In the national average, 
45.5 percent find such living at· rangements tolerable, as opposed to 
27.5 percent at Notre Dame. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 5 

Flooding kills 7, forces evacuations in California, Nevada 
Thousands of people were evacuated in the West yesterday as the heaviest rain in 31 years forced rivers out of their banks, landslides blocked major highways and rail­roads, and heavy mountain snow triggered killer avalanches. 
At least seven people were killed and six were missing since the first In a series of storms struck the West a week ago. Since then, up to 19 Inches of rain has fallen on parts of California with about 9 feet of snow In some mountains. 
More than 3,000 residents of Nor­thern California were In evacuation centers with their homes flooded or threatened by slides. National Guardsmen were called out to help In California and northwestern 

Pregnant 
continuedfrom page I 
psychology depart­ment, said "it would be fair to say that some faculty would be likely to take In unwed mothers," although 5he would not comment further be­cause of possible conflicts with con­
fidentiality. 
According to Depauw, "There have been instances where the ad­ministration has done everything rea.'iOnably possible to support a stu­dent in that situation." 
"It Is fine (for a pregnant student) to take outside advice, but it is dif­ficult because the agency may adv­ocate pregnancy termination," said Malloy. He continued that Univer­sity support can help provide a pro­life climate for the unmarried woman. 
Nevada, where more people were forced out of their homes. Flooding also caused damage in parts ofUtah. 
More than 20,000 people were without electricity In various Nor­thern California counties, Pacific Gas and Electric and Sierra Pacific Power reported. Winds gusting to 50 mph blacked out about 2,000 customers yesterday in parts of Oregon and earlier had caused mil­lions of dollars' worth of damage in Colorado. 
California Governor George Deukmejian declared states ofemer­gency yesterday in Napa, Sonoma and Humboldt counties, a prelimi­
nary  step  toward  making  them  
eligible  for  federal  disaster  assis­ 
tance.  

"We have evacuated everybody, so far, that needs to be evacuated," 

Said Depauw, "As a counseling center at a Catholic institution It is inappropriate to refer for abortion. It seems to undercut the mission sisters want at the College." She stressed, however, that "this does not mean I will not talk to a woman about problem pregnancy concerns. If a student comes and says she's made a decision to have an abortion, this is what I am dealing with, will you help me? This doesn't mean I won't help her and that I won't talk to her." 
"If you don't talk about abortion, we are all kidding ourselves. In the 1980s this will run through some­body's mind in a problem pregnancy situation," added Depauw. 
Marne Greening, administrator of the Women's Pavillion which offers abortions, would not comment on whether Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have utilized their Napa County Red Cross disaster chairwoman Doris Zylinski said yes­terday. "Napa's really isolated. We have slides or torrents on all high­ways, in and out. I don't think anybody can get into Napa right now." 
"We have 400 to 500 people In shelters, but I understand people who have left on their own could number In the thousands," Napa County sheriffs Captain Ken Narlow said. 
Twenty-four-hour rainfall in parts of the Coast Range in Napa and Sonoma counties exceeded 8 inches, with 11.1 5 inches at Atlas­Dutra in Napa, the weather service said. Kentfield in Marin County had about 19 inches ofrain since Feb. 12, the agency said, and the Heavenly Valley ski resort reported 9 feet of 
services because "it is privileged in­formation." 
In Indiana, if a pregnancy is to be terminated it must be done within 12 weeks of conception, according to Greening. She also said an abor­tion may be performed without parental consent if the woman is 18 years ofage or older. 
"As students at Catholic univer­
sities and as members of the Cat­
holic Church," Rogers said, women 
may not have a belief in abortion. 
Malloy concurred, saying the moral background of students is more likely to give them a different attitude about abortion than that at a public university. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's counseling centers offer their services to unmarried pregnant women or women who believe they may be pregnant. Depauw said the programs at Saint Mary's are very ap­plicable to the situation. She 




(*** * * * * * * * * * * * *****
j DISTINGUISHED STUDENT i ~ AWARD * 
: Th• Notr• Dam• Alumni Association will II•aee•ptlnt no•IINitfeas i ~ from F••ruar3' J4·~8for th• Sth annual Dfstlntulsh•d Stud•nt ~ : Award. Th• DfstlniUish•d Stud•nt AWflrd was er.,.t.d to honor•• il outstllndlnts•nlorstud•ntat th• Unlversft3' llas•d on th• folle~~~l•l ~ 
: ·erlt•rla: 
il ~ 1) Service to Notre Dame, : 2) Service to the Community, and, 
·~~ App:::ti:s:::~~::::i:::he Alumni As.odation Officeon 
the second floor of the Administration Building, The Centerfor Social Concerns" and at Campus Ministry Office in the : Memorial Library * 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Fell. 28, 1986. 
i 
********************************************•******** 

snow. In Utah, Wellsville had 10.56 inches of rain in five days, and Bald Mountain, Idaho, got nearly 50 inches ofsnow. 
National Guardsmen were sent to assist sandbagging and rescue efforts in Napa County and another unit was on standby to the north in Tehama County around Red Bluff. 
The Napa River at St. Helena rose to more than a foot above the 1955 record level of 18.2 feet, while the Russian River near Guerneville reached 45 feet-13 feet above flood stage and 4.7 inches short ofits 1955 record but still rising, the weather service said. Five hundred evacuees stranded in a Guerneville church awaited rescue by National Guard helicopters and boats. 
The 1,350 residents of Hamilton City In Glenn County were advised 
stressed that women can come to them and expect to get confidential counseling. 
Depauw added that non­judgmental help is avallable in the woman's "personal struggle," al­though they do encourage people to make moral decisions. "The Cat­holic character of the school is woven in what we do but in a way so that if a student isn't Catholic, she wouldn't find the questions in­trusive," she said. Steibe added that at Notre Dame a 
woman  can  also  expect them  to  
"provide  counseling  in  order  to  
facilitate some decision."  

The ~otre Dame Health Center also offers individual counseling, al­though Carol Seager, director ofUni­'versity Health Services, said they primarily serve as a referral service 1o women if they would rather have off-campus counseling. Seager added that they also refer women to a gynecologist, if they request the in­formation. 
Gloria Chelminiak, director of Saint Mary's health services, said her center helps to direct women to the proper sources once students find out they are pregnant. "We will lis­ten to the problem and try to give them sources to seek help from. We are obligated to help in any health situation," said Chelminiak. She added that she is available whenever necessary to talk with women. 
Both campus counseling centers also function as a referral service to outside organizations who deal with problem pregnancies. The Women's Care Center and the Catholic Social Services are two examples of or­ganizations which help women in the South Bend area to deal with pregnancy. 
Rogers said The Women's Care Center works to help give women courage to deal with a possible preg­nancy. "Some of the women are living on college campuses and at­tending school," although Rogers said that these are not necessarily Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students to evacuate as the Sacramento River rose to within a foot of the top of eroding levees, said Dan Roach of the U.S. Forest Service. 
Nevada Governor Richard Bryan declared a state ofemergency In the northwestern counties of Washoe, Lyon and Douglas and in Carson City. One hundred Guardsmen were sent out to help, mostly in Reno, AI Alcorn of the state Department of Emergency Management said yes­terday. 
Between 400 and 500 people had been evacuated In Nevada, most in the Dayton area southeast of Reno where water from the El Dorado Reservoir threatened to isolate resi­tients, said Don Dehne, assistant director of the Emergency Manage­ment Division. 
since there are other colleges in the 
area. 
Rogers would not elaborate fur­
ther on the subject, saying "all case 
information is confidentJal." 
"Both women and men are af­
fected" by unmarried pregnancies, 
according to Rogers. Aside from 
counseling for the pregnant woman, 
Rogers said the Women's Care 
Center also offers men counselors 
for the father of the expected child. 
"Men may feel helpless in the 
situation since he has no legal right 
should a woman choose abortion," 
Rogers said. The male counselors 
are there to help men deal with the 
pregnancy. 
Although Chelminiak said the 
Saint Mary's Health Center does not 
perform pregnancy tests, they will 
refer the woman to a gynecologist. 
According to Seager, the Notre 
Dame center docs perform 
"extremely confidential pregnancy 
testing." 

Seager explained that pregnancy test results are only given to women in person and that no results will be given over the phone In order to protect the student's confidentiality. Although the test is not free of charge, Seager said no bill is made and the student may pay in cash. 
The Woman's Care Center and 
Women's Pavillion also provide 
pregnancy testing. Rogers said the 
majority of tests are negative, ln 

which case her center helps the 
woman decide how she would have 
dealt with the situation. 
Malloy said "the only way to com­pletely prevent problem pregnancy is not to have sex." Although neither campus health center dispenses birth control methods or devices, Seager said that when a woman seeks information on con­traceptives, they will refer her to a gynecologist. 
Seager added "not many requests 
for birth control are received here." 

Chelminiak said the Saint Mary's Health Center does not specifically offer advice on birth control but they would direct students to literature that might help them. The focus of the health center is not to deal with birth control, but with sickness and well-being. she added. 
According to Greening, the Women's Pavillion offers birth con­trol counseling. She said that "your doctor has the capability to offer birth control when requested." The Pavillion itself docs offer vasec­tomies in addition to binh control counseling. 
Contraceptives may be obtained without parental permission in In­diana since there is no "squeal law," added Greening, referring to laws in some states which require parental consent when an underage person requests contraceptives. 
"Although unmarried pregnancy is always a tragedy," Malloy stressed that "it does not have to be destructive." 
"It is a problem to have unmarried pregnancies. It is also a problem if we didn't attend to the (pregnancy) problem," he said. 
TilE GUTHRIE THEATER 
( hurlt'!l tntJw,s' sple,did~l' l•ll•ltl dNlTW l1>n nmw to life h, this dus.!lt' !lor)' oj Pip. lb.-11rpbm1 ht~l' 11obo NrtJil'S UJIIOik• 11 J(tWih•m:m of )!n¥11 m:fH't.·Jt~llmu .. 
JMU Pt:RYORHJN<; ARTS Sfo:RH:S t-'ebru..try 23, 19Bb -8:00pm 

ILM~
O'I..Juqhltn Auditorium 

WlthiMIUp90f'lafthe
for T1ck••t lnfur...at1on 

lnd!MI Artl Commlelkm lind C"al I 284-4b2b Nation.. Endowmfilllor 1M Arta. 
Do you have a favorite band that you want to bring to Notre Dame? 
Would you like to be the person who decides what comedy acts, movies, and plays are shown on campus? 
SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENLIVEN THE ENTIRE CAMPUS WHILE GAINING PRACTICAL BUSINESS EXPERIENCE. THE STUDENT AcnYmES IOARD IS INTERVIEWING FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS FOR THE 1986-87 SCHOOL YEAR: 
Calendar Commlsslon~eE§§i
Cultural Arts Commissioner 
Ideas and Issues Commissioner 
Movie Commissioner 
Musical Entertainment Commissioner-
Publicity Commissioner -:::::::1 
Personnel Commissioner 1 Services Commissioner•••.. Special Events Commlssloner••-t 
Applications are available In the S.A.B. ofllcea 2nd Floor LaFortune Applications are due February 20. Any questions? Call XJ9.nfil 
View~_o_i_n_t________w_e_dn-es-da.._y,-Fe-bru-ary.__l9_,1-98-6-....pa-ge-6 

Seniors should take some historical lessons 
"Remember Grant, remember Lee, the heck with them, remember me" · a sentiment often scribbled in those end-of-the-year grammar school autograph books. General Ulysses S. Grant, the fearless leader of the army who sought to ensure the union of the states and the _financial success of the industrialized North, was considered a drunken, old has­been when Lincoln appointed him com· mander. After his fame in the Civil War, though, Grant was elected president of the United States at the age of47. 
Jeanne Grammens 
ask not 
In I0 years, a man whose life was essentially over became president and a historical hero. No small feat, yet if Grant had exhibited the attitude of several second-semester seniors, who knows how many countries would in· habit this continent today. 
Seniors at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are expressing the attitude, "Well my time here is almost over. I've done all I can do and gotten close to anyone I'm going to get close to, so why start anything new?" 
"that first job," all the other possibilities fade or are put on hold. Once we have defined our future, once we are in the "real world," we might very well wish we would have lived these final months differently. The next few months will probably be the last for this kind of life. It would be wise to apply our job . strategy of "anything goes" to our daily lives 
here at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
A famous person once said, "Life is someth· ing that happens to you when you are making other plans." just when we think we have our life plannedout, or when we believe it is going to follow a normal course of events, it turns itself upside dQwn. Adjustment is the key to survival, but an open attitude, a willingness to let the unexpected happen, is the key to happiness and fulfillment. 
We can not afford to restrict the levels of 
life we can experience, even ifwe are second­
semester seniors. It is never "too late" to live, 
learn or love. Let us feel and experience our 
final months at these institutions with open 
minds and hearts. Adopting such an attitude is 
a true step in faith. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior government and communications major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. BoxQ 
United States is urged to denounce Marcos 
DearEditor: 
Ferdinand Marcos has really done it this time. In a blatant disregard for democracy and freedom, Marcos used his dictatorial power to cheat, bribe, terrorize, and murder his way to "victory" in the Philippine elections. The Philippine people have been stepped on once again. 
There is no doubt in my mind that Corazo~ Aquino would have won the presidency had the election been honest and falr. The evidence offraud and foul play on the part of Marcos is simply overwhelming. Yet he has the nerve to emphatically deny over and over any wrongdoing. His naivete infuriates me. Has Marcos been breaking the rules for so long now that he does not even consider it wrong anymore? 
Aquino may not be the savior the Philippines desperately needs, but she deserves her chance to lead the nation she loves. Marcos has consistently demonstrated ineptness in the past, not to mention his total neglect of Filipino human rights. 
I urge the United States to officially denounce the Marcos administration as in· valid. In the meantime, I pray for Aquino and 
A fairly well known biblical figure, Abraham, had the same attitude when God of­fered him his long-cherished son. Abraham told God, "but I'm too old, it's too late." IfGod hadn't clamped Abraham's mouth shut for nine months, jews and Christians alike would be lacking Isaac andJacob. 
A favorite Christmas cartoon character of mine, the Grinch, could have exhibited the "too late" attitude also. Perched upon the bundles, upon poor Max, upon the mountain, an ear picked up the singing voices of the Whos on Christmas morning. Logically, the Grinch might as well have walked back up to his lonely quarters. The Whos obviously did not need the material goods or the Grinch's generosity. They were happy. 
The Grinch was too late to bring this happi­ness. But, as we all know, the Grinch did go down to Whoville. He did not say, "it's too late." Instead, he participated in the greatest joy known to man, to be loved and accepted. The Grinch allowed himselfto experience the unexpected, in a split instant, because he was not resigned to the "too late" syndrome. 
One of my close friends met a special per­son in March oflast year. This "special person" was a fifth-year student at Notre Dame, and she was to spend six weeks of the summer in Europe. My friend and the Notre Dame stu· dent were engaged the following August. If either had believed, "Well, we shouldn't bot­her getting to know each other; we're outta here in May," they would have missed each other. Instead they utilized every moment with an open· mind and heart. 
Before certain men and women head for the hills swearingI am advocatingquick romance, let me redeem myself. The previous three ex­amples can be applied to absolutely every aspect of life: careers, relationships, family, spirituality. There are enough restrictions in this life; people need not create them in their heads. 
At the present time, many ofus are seeking to secure our place in the world outside of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In the search for this security, we are prematurely saying goodbye to this way oflife. We are writing col­lege life off in anticipation of starting a new life. 
To all ofyou who do not have jobs yet, think momentarily of all your future possibilities. Come on, you have to admit it is exhilirating to think that any number ofour dreams could come true. Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, Houston, Boston, anything goes. Once we get 
her many supporters to continuetheir valiant fight until this unacceptable and immoral dic· tator has been replaced. 
Colin M. Lipnicky Pangborn Hall 


Commemorative stamp should honor Rockne 
DearEditor: 
I have sent the following letter to Alben V. Casey, the postmaster general of the United States. 
March 4, 1988, will mark the 1OOth anniver­sary of the birth of an immigrant American who successfully lived the American dream, and who, I believe, should be honored by a commemorative stamp. 
Knute Rockne was born on March 4, 1888, in Voss, Norway. Five years later he emigrated to the United States with members of his family. Like many immigrant families of the time, the Rocknes worked hard to support themselves, to learn English and American customs in the melting pot of Chicago. In or­der to help support his family and earn funds for his education, Knute worked as a clerk for four years at the main office of the post office in Chicago. In I9I4 he graduated summa cum laude with a degree in chemistryfrom the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame. 
Following graduation, Rockne began an academic career as a chemistry professor and pursued his avocation as a football coach. In I9I8, Rockne was named Notre Dame head football coach and athletic director. As head coach, Rockne represented all that is good and decent in college athletics, setting stan­dards which many today attempt to attain. He not only developed the athletic skills ofyoung men into victorious teams but developed dis­ciplined, accomplished leaders with the abilities necessary to carry on after their playing days. 
Only 43 when he was killed in a plane crash in I93I, Rockne had lived the American dream · poor immigrant child who worked hard to learn and develop his skills into the accomplishments of a successful American. By honoring Rockne with a commemorative stamp, the Postal Service will be honoring im­migrants, postal employees, teachers and coaches and most of all those who attempt through hard work and sacrifice to achieve success for themselves, their families, their communities, and their country. Knute Rockne is all-American. 
Favorable consideration ofa Knute Rockne commemorative stamp would be greatly ap­preciated by all who admire and respect Rockne. Please advise me if you need addi· tional information. 
Michael}. Feld Notre DameAlumnus 

Palestinians are cheated by unfair Israeli laws 
DearEditor: 
I was very pleased that a man, held against 
his will for believing in freedom, was released. 
I am a Palestinian from the West Bank. Israeli 
law requires that a Palestinian exiting Israel to 
study abroad must return every year to renew 
his exit visa. Failure to comply with this law is 
an automatic denial ofreentry. I was a student 
at one time and had failed to comply with this 
law. Oews are not required to comply with 
this law). I simply did not have the S I ,200 for 
a round trip to Israel just to renew a visa. 
Anatoly Scharllruiky was admitted to Israel 
as a citizen hours after his release from the 
Soviet Union. I was born in the West Bank, as 
was my father and his father. I feel cheated by 
Israeli Zionist law which favors Jews. I am not 
the only one in this predicament; every Pales­
tinian abroad faces this problem. 
Scharansky is free. Hurray for him. We the 
Palestinians are paying the price for the guilt 
of the West and the East for their inhumane 
treatment oftheJews. Any jewcould become 
an Israeli citizen shortly after arrival in Israel. 
We the Palestinians are treated like foreigners 
in our motherland. 
joseph S. Araman Notre Dome alumnus 

Quote of the day 
"The distance is not­hing; it is only the first step that is difficult." 
Marquise du Deffand (1697-1780) 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
MW~aQing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either institution. The news ia reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sparta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager.......................John A. Mennell 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy available to all members of the community and the free expression of v&l)'ing opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 
Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 7 
ABCs 
LEICESTER CHEONG 
features writer 
There's no doubt about it. 
The typical college student's car is a 12-ycar-old bone shaker with 100,000 miles on the odometer. 
However, even a high-milcagcd road straggler can continue to off~r reliable and trouble-free perfor­mance for many more years with proper maintenance. The myth that a car can only last for 100,000 miles is not necessarily true. 
The older engine 
generally has worn-out valves and lifters. Valves arc the doors that let the air-fuel mixture in and the ex­haust gases out after combustion. When these door edges arc worn, engine oil can seep past them and burn up with the fuel mixture, leading to continuous oil loss and black smoky exhaust fumes. 
Sometimes a thick oil additive like STP Oil can help. This sub­stance is thick enough to seal up the worn valve edges, preventing fur­ther oil seepage. It also has chemi­cal lubricants that coat all the internal moving parts. 
If the valves arc too worn, however, the only other alternative is to have them overhauled and re-ground. Bad valves can be tolerated, though, if one docs not mind ropping up the oil level every once in a while and that's certainly cheaper than having a major valve job done. 
Worn lifters (valves within a valve) only result in a noisier engine. They may leak oil too, but not to an aiarming extent. Piston rings arc tougher than valves, and they're designed to take on direct explosions in ti:tc combustion chambers. They can wear out too, but not as fast or as easily as valves. Worn piston rings make for power loss as compression efficiency is affected, in addition to (you guessed it) poor fuel economy. 
But after only 100,000 miles, the rings generally won't be so worn that any appreciable loss ofpower intake manifold gaskets can be tolerated. It's only a matter ofad­ding oil and antifreeze more oft~n than usual. Gasket replacement ts not an overly complex task, and any motivated "weekend mechanic" can handle it. 

The oil and transmission pan gaskets have a tendency to wear out too, and they should be replaced when this happens. 
Care for an older car 
First ofall, the oil should be changed every 1500 miles at least, as compared to every 4000 miles for a newer car. This is because an older engine is not as efficient as a newer one and sludge and deposits form faster. The illter should also be changed at the same intervals. 
A point ofcaution: stay away from "detergent"-type oils. An old engine may already have deposits caked up inside, and detergent oils will release these solidified sedi­ments into the system. These solid pieces may very well then clog the circulation lines. 
Regular oil changes will clean the engine and help keep it that way. Detergent oils and engine cleaners are a definite no-no. 
The coolant should be a 50-50 mixture ofwater and antifreeze. Older radiators and heater cores have an unfortunate tendency to rust and leak, but that's part oflifc. A minor radiator leak can sometimes be treated with Prestonc 

Stop-Leak, but a bad heater core can't. tion channels. This fault must be The proper coolant level must be 
of old car care 
or fuel economy can be noticed, corrected immediately or severe maintained, as overheating can unless the engine has been involved engine damage can and will occur. burn up the gaskets or crack thein "lndy-500" type driving for many Oil pressure is a definite must for engine. All radiator and heater years. Power loss or rough running engine lubrication. hoses should be replaced if theyarc usually attributed to other fac­show wear symptoms or spongytors like a bad carburetor (the 
Engine gaskets arc like thick spots.
prime cause), a worn fuel pump, 
paper sheets and they're typically
faulty fuel-injection systems, burnt­made ofcardboard-like material. The spark plug wires should be out spark plugs, a corroded dis­changed after every 50,000 miles to
They take up the slack between two
tributor, or even a clogged fuel line. 
ensure good current passage. Spark 

connecting meJa.l surfaces. Gaskets 
Acarburetor is a rather complex plugs should be changed regularly,
can dry up and crack, thus allowing
mechanical device and when it depending on the extent ofoil
antifreeze to leak from the intake
malfunctions, it's usually less ofa burning. When oil leaks past the
manifold, or oil from the valve
hassle to replace the entire unit valves and pistons and burns, it 
covers. That is why an older engine
completely rather than attempting fornts black soot which coverd the
Is usually enveloped in oil grime. 
to repair it. Rebuilt carbs are a good spark plug points, so it's a good idea bet and they're cheaper than brand The head gaskets are made ofa to use only the "hot"-typc plugs. new ones. Some agents like Sears tougher material and they lie bet­These ignite at higher temperatures 
also offer warranties for rebuilt ween the main body of the engine which helps bum up some ofthe units and installation charges arc and the blocks encasing the valves. soot deposits. quite reasonable. Head gaskets usually don't wear out Acorroded distributor should be 
but ifthey do, the most obvious replaced for good starts. All fan symptoms will be the presence of belts should be changed ifthey
A bad fuc;l pump is another unit oil in the radiator and antifreeze in appear cracked or frayed. that meritS replacement rather than the oil pan. Engine compression Only regular gasoline should be repair. Unlike carburetors, a leaking may also be affected, leading to a used unless otherwise stated. Most fuel pump should be taken care of profound loss in power and tremen­older-model engines require the immediately, as the leaked gasoline dous vibration. lead component for cylinder-wall poses obvious dangers. lubrication. 
Bad gaskets cannot be repaired, so they must be replaced. However, The brake lines should beFuel-injection systems were only with the exception ofhead gaskets, checked for rust, and the propermass-produced within the last marginally worn valve cover and , l:luidlcvc:l maintained The brake seven years, so there's a good chance that cars older than that do not have this exotic function (and the problems associated with them). 
Fuel lines are made of metal so they're subject to rust and deposit build-up, but this usually occurs only when the car has not been driven for extended periods of time. A fuel line with a hole is anot­her story, but that will be visibly apparent. A leaking line should be assigned the same level ofconcern as a leaking fuel pump. 
Arough engine may also be caused by a lack ofproper oil cir­culation, characterized by the oil pressure warning light and by un­usually high engine temperatures. There are two main reasons for these conditions. 
The oil pump (situated in the oil pan assembly) may be faulty, or excessive sludge build-up due to negligence in oil changing may have blocked some ofthe circula-
This may tool.. great at the drive in, but how are the gaskets? 
cylinders arc usually in good shape even after ten years, as the heat generated helps to keep them dry and thus slows down rust forma­tion. But they should also be checked for excessive rust, espe­cially for cars that arc long time 
winter veterans. 
Body and frame 

With the: excep­tion of"unibody" designs, all cars have a separate frame and body assembly. The: frame: is the car's backbone, and it alone: withstands collision impacts. A rusted-out frame is therefore an indication that the car has outlived its time. 
Surface rust on the othc:r hand is okay. Don't bothc:r to repair a rusted frame, it's not worth it. A hole in one part of the frame ind­icates that much of the c:ntire framework has been eaten by rust even though it may not be so visible. 
A rusted body is another fun­damental aspect of life. Rust can be prevented but once it starts, thc:re's only but one effc:ctive way to treat it and that's by using spent engine oil. Used oil has a miraculous effect on rust. It stops It dead and prevents further rusting. 
Don't be suckered into believing that a two hundred dollar rust­proofing job is going to help it any. You'd be better off to use a spray paint gun and squirt the: entire frame and body undersides with spent motor oil. Rust-proofing is only I00 percent effective for a brand new, no-rust car. 
A regular waxing of the paint job is highly recommc:nded to prevc:nt surface corrosion, unless c:xcessivc: rust is present. For vinyl rooftops and interior unholstery, penetrating polymer compounds like Armor-all can help restore that showroom look. 
Acar's condition is largely dc:pen­­dent on its maintenance (or lack of it), and not its age:. Gretchen Goulet, a senior electrical c:nginec:r­lng and computer science major, owns a 1974 Datsun that has seen 102,000 miles ofroad. It makes three cross-country trips to Nc:w England c:very year, but it's still in prime running condition bc:cause of good maintenance practices. 
"I'll never part with It," she: says. 
Ralph Whitbc:ck, a Dillon Hall custodian, has a full-size: 90,000 mile Buick that still parallc:ls its contemporary showroom counter­parts. 
The lesson is clear. No mattc:r what make, age or size:, a car needs proper malntc:nance and not lame c:xcuses. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 8 
YMCA hosts 
Sports Briefs 
fitness hour 

The ND water polo team will hold practice tonight from 9-10:30 p.m at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588.-The Observer 
Campus tug-of-war captains should phone in 
their completed rosters by today. Captains should call Kevin Len­non at 239-6440. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a meeting for all rowers tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building. For more information call Patricia Warth at 283-2759.-The Observer 
The ND I SMC Women's Golf club will be videotaping today'at regularly-scheduled times. For more informa­tion call Laura Gleason at 283-3351.-The Observer 
A team water volleyball tournament 
will be held by the NVA. The double-elimination tourney will be open to anyone on campus, but rosters must include at least eight names. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by today. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
An open singles racquetball tourney will be held by the NVA. Separate elimination tournaments will be held for intermediate and advanced players, but entry is limited to the first 64 people that apply. Interested players should register at the NVA office in the ACC bytoday. For more information call NVA. ­The Observer 
DonMattingly,New York Yankees first baseman and the 1985 American Leaugue MVP, resigned with the Yankees for n .375 million yesterday. Although Mattingly's signing avoided arbitration, Boston infielder Marty Barrett, New York Mets pitcher Ed Lynch, and Montreal pitcher Bryn Smith all were winners in arbitration hearings yesterday. Boston catcher Rich Gedman, meanwhile, lost 
his bid for a $1 million contract. -AP  
NVA Interhall tournaments will be held in team relay swimming, wrestling, and field hockey. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by today. All players must reside in the same hall. For information on entry fees and dates call NVA at 239-6100.-The Observer  In COllege basketball last night, No.6 St. John's edged Villanova, 79-76, while the Dayton Flyers were upset by St. Peter's, 66-56. -AP  

Special to Tbe Observer 

A one-hour workout will be held tomorrow at the South Bend downtown YMCA ( 120I North Side Blvd. ) as part of the "Celebration of Health and Fitness," sponsored by Blue Cross And Blue Shield of In­diana and the Indiana Pacers. 
Two representatives from the Pacers and a YMCA instructor will conduct the exercise program, which begins at 11 :30 am. 
joe Harvey, assistant trainer for the Pacers, will kick off the session with 15-20 minutes ofstretching ex­ercises. Following Harvey, Diana Mazza, choreographer of the Pacemates danceline, will conduct 20 minutes of aerobic dance. The workout will conclude with some cool-downs and calisthenics, which will be lead by a YMCA representative. 
Students are encouraged to attend the exercise session, which is open to the public. 
HELP 

SAVE BABIES 
~Support the 
uv~rsh.9.f P.irr~ 

I ht· f Jh.\crt·•·r '\.t •t rt: I ),,na t •tllll" It •t .Jit·d ••11 1Ia 1turd tlt 11 •r • •f I .11 • •rtlllh "'ttu.h:nl ( t·nrt·r J.«.lt:pl,tl.t'''tit·d Jtht·rtl'..,ng tnn11 tJ .am tllllll t p 111 \1tllldJ\ rhrou~h I rtdJ\ I Jw t JIJSt•rn·r ,,IIIli \t.1n ' t •tf~t. t It H. .lit d ••ll riH 1turd rl••• •r ••f tl.tgg.tr < olkgc: ( cnlc:r .Hlt·rt,ll.t''ttlc. d' tnJilJ 1.! '''I' 111 1111111 J.. p 111 \1tJn d.l\ 1h1J11gh I ru.IJ\ J)c..lliiiiH f•,r IH \1 d.t\ tl.t... ~IIH d' ,, 'I' 111 \II tl.l"lllt'd' mu...lhcprcp.ud l'ltiHrlnpc.r"•nc•rh' !11.111 « li.H~l '''''ltTll... ptrll\ctll.u.t,




Classifieds 
llT' l."f dJ.\ 

lntereeted In tutoring a Iouth lend  all the lrilh eurfer needl il aome ~  ITOP UIING lEX AS A WEAPON  
NOTICES  WANTED  PERSONALS  ICIIool ldd? The NIHP 8111 '­openlnge at Kennedy GrMe lchool on llondlly-Weclneedlye from 12:1111:411. ..._. .,.. Tom at 11111 or Alicia at  wavee and a cool buzz and he'l fine LONG UVE SPRING BREAK  Liu, You're the greatut!! Happy 22nd Birthday...Maliaa  
- Typing Av•~a~e 287-4082 TYPING CALLCHNS :IJW117. IUIINE..EXPREM, INC. Wonlproceeelng 8lld typing 272-11127 ································································ EXPERT TYPING UIMCE. CALL -.COKER, 2»-7001. PRO-TYPE.._.._, In~~ _..._,8tlldenl,.... 277--. ATTN: ITUDENn Doloree Francia typing ~«Vice phone number chenge 277-8131 ProleeeiONII word proc-'ng and typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Cell 2n-4220. LOSTlFOUND I LOST: ONE PAIR WHITE WEIGHT LIF­TING GLOVES. SOUTH QUAD OR ACC 30 JAN PLEASE CALL CHRISTINE 3784 LOST: S DINING HALL, BLUE BACK­PACK WITH NOTEBOOK, TENNIS  OVERSEA~ JDa..lum-. yr.rouncl. Europe, I.A-., Aua!NIIa, .-..... All lleldll. SI00-2000 mo. ...,._,ng, Frw Into. Write IJC, PO lx 52-IN-4, car-del...,, CA 12125. NEED RIDE TO PITISBURGH weekend of Feb. 21·23 (this weekend). WIU lhare driving and expe,.ee. Cal Jim AT 1596. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040.$59,230/yr. Now Hiring, Call 1­805-887-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current federal Dlt. NEEDED: Ride to ChiCIIgo weekend of Feb.21. Calf R.J. at 1097 Semi-furnilhed house good neighbor­hood after 4 • 25S.3684/2n-3604. 2-bdrm. apt. Call272-4613. FOR SALE 75 FIAT Spyder gd tranaport, gd engine, tiree, muffler, needa bodywork, cal 283­3472 anytime TICKETS Top$ for Dayton GAs. Cd John 2368. I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR DAYTON. LET MY PARENTS SEE THE GAME. CALL 2602  The depth of ln~macy we feel tow•d another Ia inversely proportionel to the number of others in ourNvea. -Richard Bach, Thellrlclge A-F-• v.,....nce noun 1. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth; a lair, satisfying and rapid way to a sighU811, toothl811 world. Mercy noun 1. The infrequent art of turning thumbe up on an old antagonist at the end of one's rapier. ·Calvin MiNer, Theil..., P.l.: Sorry I was so busy yeeterday . I mined your smile. T.B. OAR HOUR: COLD lEER a UQUOfl. CAMIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 IILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWSLETTER! lncludel:800 no.; travel partner 1181\'ice;featuree on exotic OVEJtiEAI budget travel, work, atudyl Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, New Haven, CT. 06525 Ferdinand, My hero. When shaH we meet again? Miranda  211117. This ian 'I reality, this/a the e...,. -Gomer SMC Sexuality Education Council Op­timism -The Worat Contraceptive (What they are. how they work, what they fool< like) Wedneeday, Feb 19, 7:00 PM Stapleton Lounge Karen Wia,. and EHa Harmeyer Faculty Nureing Department Kelly Luff-Can we go on our walk now?-T National Champ Plaque For Sale For In­formation Cd 616 663 8750 Good Luck to swim teams at Con· terence. "All it takel il au you got" Student& in need of gyneccilogical e«Vicel can be aeen by the Univereity phy.icia,. or by a gynecological specialilt. Gynecologlet by appointment only 23!1-7497, Wed. mornlnge ($20 mini· mum fee). No fee to aee Univereity physicians. Theology maJora: P'-~ a~ clal dlacuaalon with Fathar John Dunne, c.a.c., tonlfht at 1o:oo PM In 341 O'lhaugh-y. TONIGHT Fathar Heeburgh, C.I.C. wtM.,.Uon "A Chrl811an Appml_, ol the Crlala In Iouth Africa" Weclneaday, Fallruary 11, 7:00PM H~Hal ALL INVITED!  Happy Birthday to KIM VANDE1181LTI She is 21 today. Have an excellent birthday Kim! Love, M. Is anyone going to Marquette/Milwaukee this weekend? (2/21-2/23) I need a ride. Pleue cal Margie at 284-4425. One ticket needed for the Dayton/NO game on March 8-Caft 284-4425. ROMANCING THE STONE SMC HAG· GAR GAME ROOM-$0.75 THRUS FEB. 20-6-8-10 pm FRI FEB. 21 • 6-8-10.12 pm A CPA' a NIGHTMARE Waking up and realizing that each com­pany's individual balance lheet doeln't add up to The llltlanc:e lhaat o1 Tha World. WELCOME TO NO WENDYI!III!!I! SHAKESPEARE CLUB MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:00 IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE SCORR, THANX FOR A GREAT WEEKEND. IT WAS VERY SPECIAL TO ME. LOVE YOU, B-I·T THANK YOU ST. JUDE-CJ Sheila Taylor-Notre Dame'• own ran­dom O.J. -challenges the South Send Radio Blue~ thil week. Tune to WSND­FM 88.9 after midnight Thursday for the belt in late night radio, when Sheila T.  Mill San Diego: I've got the aoap if you've got the time. To thoae of inferior inteligence We pereonally do not gatoff from hal­lucinogentic pizza although we do require a LARGE buzz to withltand your com­pany if you didnot know that thil wu directed toward our SAINT MARY'S CONNEC· TION,itenot. THE SMaC PACK(?) ps. it is Uland its only a little (verbal) fun 0081 "Soccer Burger" give you Indiges­tion? "If life were a camera, I'd probably have thele,. cap on." Ya gotte watch out for thoee oogo beeltera. Happy Wednesday After Velentine'a Day. A good day for a emile? HEY PATIY AND ANDYI! Surprise! Happy Valentine's Day. Thankl for being so great!! Love ya· oodles. GREG you ehoufd know better than to drive your car on the ice, you might juet get into and OTIOwreck HOT PACKAGES RULE FRIDAY OTIOOTIOWHO? IKIIIKIIIKII WE RE GOING TO GLORIOUS  
SHOES, SWEAT PANTS, KEYS. PLEASE CALL 283-25971F HAVE INFO. LOST: GOLD NECKLACE WITH PEN­DANT THAT HAS DIAMONDS IN IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 272-Q253. REWARD I  AND ASK FOR DREW. I need 2 GAl for the Dayton game. Cell Rodx1768. I need 4 tickell (GAs preferred) for the Dayton game. PI-call Dale x1657.  Come See FALSTAFF & HAL in ChiCIIgo on Feb.20 Tickell $20.00 in 309 O'Shag. No SEX again, but Ice Skating, hot choc­olate and loll of fun. Thu..-day, Febru81"f 20. 8:oo-10:15 p.m. at N.D. Ice Rink. FREE-FREE-FREE-FREE-FREE  ROlE and PAJAMA PARTY THURSDAY NIGHT CLUI on CORBY SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR 1986­87 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN.  piloll the Nightfllght. Don't mill ill Your eara wiN never forgive you! YO CHICK The put three and a haft months have been continually sunny and uplifting. I thank the Big Guy for your preaence in my  COLORADO FOR A WEEK DURING BREAK, TO ARAPAHOE. BRECKIN­RIDGE, COPPER, AND KEYSTONE. WE NEED A FEW MORE SKIERS TO JOIN US. IF INTERESTED, CALL CHRIS(3185) OR RAMON(2475) BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE! IT'U BE A  
au•lty Instruction at Economy Pricee:  life. !JIG !JIG !JIG !JIG !JIG hu a nice ring,  GREATTIMEI!  
Need only ONE GA for DePaul. Pleez  Buoin811  Adminiltrlltion,  Hispanic  huh? Love and Flowers alwaye. George  
LOST 2 C8 Winter Coata (a navy blue  hetpl Connie 2768  Studiee, Artl and Sciencea. GRADUATE  YES TODAY IS JOHN "LITILE LOU"  
coat with a red etripe,and alky blue coat)  IA8'1 WINTER  FEITIVAL II COM­ COURSES IN HISPANIC STUDIES of­ LOOMER'S BIRTHDAY THE "ACTION  
at Campue View on Sat ni9ht. A reward i1  NYTHING FOR 2 DAYTON GA'I CALL  INGIll  fered in July. Contact: Admilli0118, St.  THEIOPHOMORECOTILUON  FOREVER KID" IS GETIING OLDER  
being  offered.  Call  ROB-272-0828  or  JOHN2110  FEB. 24-MARCH 1  Louie University, 221 N. Grand Blvd. St.  A FORMAL  EVENING  OF  DINING &  BUT  HE  WILL  NEVER  LOSE  HIS  
Mike-272-2385.  BEACH  PARTY-SKI  TRIP-BOWLING­ Louis, M063103. Toll-freetef.:(800)32S.  DANCING  ANIMAL MAGNETISM.  
1980 NO GRAD WANTS TO IMPRESS  ICESKATING­ 6666.  FRIDAY MARCH 7TH  
LOST(Itolen?) Gold ch•n.it wun't even worth that much, only of high 181ltimental  BEAUTIFUL GIRL WITH 2 DAYTON B­BAI..L TIX. CALL 309-452-8809, LEAVE  UNDERGRAD NITE AT BAR-AND MOREl  SENIOR  The Man-The Myth-The Legend THE LOOMER Happy Birthday-Tom, Mo. and  
velue. Pleule call3810. Reward and no  MESSAGE, AND I WIU PAY YOU FOR  FOUR GUYS DO MI'WAUKEE  SOPHOMORE  Mike Is it Mr. Hand's birthday too?  
que1tion1 uked.Thankl.  THE T!X AND THE CAU.  (part two)  COTILUON  
COMING SOON ... SOONER THAN YOU  $67 at DiiCOUnt Liquors? You'd think aft  COTIUION  TO THE GUY AT THE TICKET STUB­ 
FOUND:  Silver  Men'l  Loru1  Watch­ Have two (2) main floor tix to South Bend  THINK... THE SAGA... THE WAR "NO  you came here to do wu drink -My dad  COTILUON  SORRY  ABOUT  VALENTINE'S  DAY.  
Found Tuu in front of Library. Cell Bob  symphony Sat. nite ........... WANNA BUY  FUN"  wiN love me if I gat him Paddy'alrilh Whil·  BRING YOUR FLOWER TO 236 BADIN  
287-8656  'EM?? If so, call .Greg at 4186 ......  a man who is torn between two lovers and  key -No, Megan, no Molaon'a -Maybe  .......................................  AND WE'U TALK ABOUT THE MOVIE.  
IILL ient even here yet  next year, Mike • I don't care if yellow  JOE MURPHY: CONGRATULATIONS!!!  KEUY  
LOST: GOLD IEJKO WATCH; Dalcrip­ NEED 4 DAYTON GA'S. CAll BIU AT 1n5  Coming loon: ..•  lighll offend your ee,.itivities ­Ray and Dot's • the incredible second-ball jump -I  THE ST. LOUIS CLUB IS PROUD OF YOU I  BED ·;;N'i:>'8RE'.4i<'F"A8:r~~~i;;t;i~·;;;.:·N'·c;  
tion: Quartz, thin, gold latch type band. Loet somewhere on North Quad 2/16/86.  NEED  2G.A.I  &  2  STUD.  TIX  FOR  DAVE FLANAGAN  like the hat, but you didn't call that fait bank! -At least de guys at Da Lanche go  E-To the Best Friend anyone could ever  Junior Parenti' Weekend and St. Mary's Sophomore Parenta' Weekend. Two  
If found, pi-contact Rey, 359 Cav.,  DAYTON. $$CALL CHRIS-t 135  WEEKEND  to college-once a cardinal, always a car­ uk fori! Luv Ya, (like a sister!) R  nighll minimum; 10 mine. from campus.  
tel: 1533. WIK give reward to finder!  dinal-the strawride without a tractor· how  272-5640.  
.............................  NEEDAOAYTONGATICKETWIUPAY  ·come watch him get ugly!!!  many pound& of beer did we drink? ·This  
If  someone  happened  to  IlEAL the  WEU CALL X2035  ............................................  can't be a yuppie bar ... there's a pool  Hey, anyone from D.C. My friend Ellie  MY HEART BELONGS TO DADDY. I  
llbove GOLD SEIKO WATCH, atleut call  Hu19Y? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at  table· fumigate the car, please.  needa a ride from there at the end of  LOVE YOU DAD! MISS YOU, MJ  
or drop a note to Rey. 359 C&v., tel: 1533  MY SISTER WILL DO ANYTHING FOR 4  272-HIKE.  Delivery  houre:  5pm-12am  spring break  (she's so irreeponaible I  
& tell me how much you gotfor it ... it wiU  DAYTON TICKETS !I! Calf Ed at 3168.  Monday-Thul'lday;  5pm-2am  Friday;  ThiUika frx an awesome trip, guys.  have lo do theee thinga for her to keep her  DEAR ZAMIES, HAPPY 21 HON! DON'T  
make me feet better!  (Hope you don't mind, Anne.)  3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday  out of trouble!) Call El at 1273  GO CHANGIN' ... LOVE, LITILE Z  

The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 9 
... 

Q @ SPORTS WEDNESDAY ~ 8 NHL 
PfiiNCE Of' WALEI CONFEIIENCif 
--Dlvllllon

W L T QF CIA Pia. Quebec 33 22 4 245 208 70 Montreal 32 22 5 252 196 69 Boeton 27 25 7 230 219 61 Buffalo 27 25 6 219 206 60 Hlllllord 27 211 2 233 224 56 
Petrtck Olvlillon Philadelphia 39 18 4 253 1711 82 WMhlngton 35 17 4 223 196 74 NY lllandenl 28 20 10 238 209 88 Pllleburgh 28 24 7 228 202 59 NY Rangen 27 26 4 202 195 58 New-*My 17 37 3 211 271 37 
CLAIIENCE CAIIP8EU.. CONFERENCE lmyth• Ovlalon 
W L T QF CIA Pia Edmonton 40 13 6 309 237 86 ClligWy 27 23 7 2411 223 61 Loa~ 111 33 8 209 284 44 Vancouver 17 31 9 209 239 43 

-
WlnniPag 18 35 8 214 278 42 Noma Olvlalon Chi~ 29 22 8 260 252 88 SI.LOUII 26 23 8 219 218 60 Mlnne&ota 23 26 9 235 230 55 Toronto 16 35 6 219 2n 38 Oetroot 12 41 5 192 302 29 
LMINitJIII"a ......lta Hlllllord 5, Vancouver 4 Loa Angal• 5. Quebec 4 WMhington 5, NY I!Hndera 4 St. Lou1a 5. Detroit 0 Calgllry 7, Boeton 4 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball Statistics through 2/15/86 
Won 15, Lost 7 

TOP 20 
Player GIGS MIN/AVG FG/FGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO AST BK ST PTS AVG Th• Top T.,.nly cohge buk..,..tMme In Tha Aaoclatad Prua pol, wtlh litwl-place vot•ln par.,lh-. lhla .-on·a raoorda 
Keys 22/22 675/ 30.6 180/ 343 .524 65/ 90 .722 141/ 6.4 53/ 0 54 20 41 425 19.3 and lola! polnta. Polnta liMed on 20-1e-18­Bolham 22/18 509/ 23.1 116/ 190 .610 60/ 82 .731 161/ 7.3 69/ 3 23 12 16 292 13.2 17 etc. Notre Dame opponenta we 
Italicized.

Ebben 22/21 654/ 29.7 75/ 171 .438 38/ 46 .826 88/ 4.0 51/ 1 66 10 41 188 8.5 
Willis 21/15 504/ 24.0 46/ 101 .455 51/ 68 .750 94/4.4 63/ 4 8 1 14 143 6.8 
Gavin 22/22 662/ 30.0 42/ 91 .461 31/ 50 .620 63/ 2.8 52/ 2 131 4 46 115 5.2 1. No. Carollna(62) 25-1 1,240 
Bunek 13/3 243/ 18.6 50/ 83 .602 12/ 19 .631 64/ 4.9 
27/ 1 10 11 5 112 8.6 2. Duke 25-2 1,171 3. KarwM 24-3 1,087
Toney 22/1 431/ 19.5 43/ 106 .405 17/ 38 .447 62/ 2.8 49/ 2 43 12 20 103 4.6 4. Memphla St. 23-2 1.017 Brommeland 18/4 253/ 14.0 43/ 88 .488 2/ 3 .666 48/ 2.6 18/ 0 8 6 3 88 4.8 5. Georgia Tach 1e-4 8110 Morrison 13/1 126/ 9.6 16/ 39 .410 9/ 21 .428 35/ 2.6 23/ 0 3 12 1 41 3.1 6. St. John'a 24-3 928 
7. Michigan 22-3 647
Kuhns 14/0 131/ 9.3 13/ 39 .333 9/ 11 .818 17/ 1.2 9/ 0 13 1 6 35 2.5 
8. K.,tucky 22·3 764
Barron 16/3 153/ 9.5 15/ 35 .428 3/ 4 .750 23/ 1.4 8/ 0 5 0 13 33 2.0 9. Syracuae 
20-3 678 Basford S/0 59/ 7.3 4/ 15 .266 0/ 1 0.000 10/ 1.2 12/ 0 5 0 3 8 1.0 10. Oldahome 23-3 658 11. UNLV 24-3 837
Team Rebounds 81/10.1 
12. ar.dley 26-1 583 t3. Gaorgetown 1e-5 478 
14. ....Deme 17-1 
... 

15. lncbna 17·5 421 
16. Loulavlle

Notre Dame 22/ 4400/200.0 643/ 1301 .494 297/ 433 .685 • 887/40.3 434/ 13 369 89 209 1583 71.9 18·7 327 
17. Navy 20-4 100
Opponents 22/ 4400/200.0 480/ 1293 .371 312/ 479 .651 • 7n/35.3 408/ 14 219 37 196 1272 57.8 
16. VlfVinla Tach 1H 99 19. Michigan St. 17-6 64 
• Deadball rebounds not included in totals: Notre Dame 52 , Opponents 58 20. N. C. State 17-8 85 
NBA l!atarn Conf­Atlantlc Dlvlelon W L Pet. Q8 Boaton . 41 10 .804 Phlladell>hl• 34 20 .630 8.5 N-J-y 211 28 .527 14 WMhlngton 25 29 .483 17.11 N-Yorlc 18 37 .327 25 c.ntn1 Dlvlalon MUwaukM 37 18 .873 Atlanta 30 23 .588 6 Detroll 30 25 .545 7 Cleveland 22 32 .407 14.5 Indiana 18 35 .352 17.5 Chi~ 17 38 .309 20 w-..Conf­.......Dlvlelon W L Pet. Q8 Houaton 35 19 .646 Denver 32 23 .582 3.5 OeiM 29 23 .558 5 San Alllonlo 30 28 .536 6 Utah 28 30 .464 10 Saaamento 22 32 .407 13 PIICitlc Olvl ..on LAL.akera 38 13 .750 POf!land 28 28 .509 12.5 Phoenix 22 31 .415 17.5 L.A. Cllppera 21 33 .388 111 S..ttle 20 34 .370 20 Goldan St. 17 39 .304 24 L.Mt"""t'a"-'118 Cleveland 111, NewYorlc 105 San Antonio 120. Phoenix 1 14 D.nver 101. WMhlngton 110 Sacr•manto 115, Houalon 105 TOflltl!l'• a.m.. Chi~ at New -*My Portland at PhiladelPhia S..ttle •• Detroit L.A. L.akera at Indiana MllwaukM at 0­AdantaatUtah Boeton at Goklen St.  
 LISTS Selected publications with most teams in final AP football poll 1. Football News -­13 of 20 preseason picks 2. Inside Sports -­12 ( tle). Sponing News -­12 (tie). Associated Press-12 5. Game Plan •• 11 ( tle). United Press Inti ... 11 7. Sports IUustrated--10 ( tle). Street & Smith .. 1 0 ( tle). Spon .. 10 1 0. Playboy •• 9  

The Observer Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 10 
... 
Many games forfeited in women's IH hoops 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
SportsWrltn" 
"We'll show upfor all ourgames." 
It has become a cliche. No matter how uncertain a team's prospects appear, no matter how unlikely a winning season becomes, no matter how unwilling to comment on the future team leaders remain, the fact that the team wm attend all its games remains a given in most sports, leagues and levels. 
Not so in women's interhall bas­ketball. 

-
In the NVA league, the women play primarily for fun. There are teams that take the league more seriously than others and there are some strong interhall rivalries, but 
for the most part this is a league for the enjoyment of athletics and com· petition as opposed to the specifics ofthe competitions themselves. 
That sometimes those competi­tions are not very convenient becomes apparent in the recent dif­ficulties with the women's interhall schedules. The teams do not neces­sarily show up for the games. 
Case in point, last night's schedule saw Pasquerilla West earn an automatic 2-0 victory when Farley 'B' failed to field a team, and 


Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
Welsh says he is very pleased with the depth ofhis 8-3 women and that he feels this depth will pay off for the team in the championships. 
"The key matchups will be the five relays," he explains. "Points awarded are double. This means that to win, one must be powerful in the Pasquerilla East picked up a win as Walsh 'B' forfeited 
Last week, out of 10 games scheduled, only three were played. The others became victories by for­feit for one of the teams when the other failed to find the proper gym· nasium for whatever reason. 
Last Wednesday, Breen Phillips beat Walsh 'B', 40-9. In other action, Farley 'B' (who has since dropped out of the league) forfeited to Farley 'A,' P.W. salvaged its first victory of the season with the forfeit by Lyons, Badin forfeited to P.E., and Lewis 'B' surrendered without a contest to Walsh. 
In the B.P.· Walsh 'B' massacre, 
B.P. balanced its scoring. Ann Curoe and Dava Newman each had 12 points while Carolyn Burke dropped in 10. 
P.W. earned its first victory on Sunday by defeating Badin, 37·33. Captain Anne Hentzen paced P.W. with 12 points from the low post. While the victory was P.W.'s second, it was special because its only other "win" was by forfeit. 
"It was a good game all around for us," Hentzen said. "We're very proud ofthat first win." 
Walsh edged out Lewis, 24-23, in the only other game played Sunday. 
relays. We have been strong in this event. 
"This is a good example of our depth. We can field five relay teams without sacrificing individual per· formance." 
Notre Dame goes il_lto today's championships as defending cham­pion with an 8-3 record and the power and depth to win. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare 
C1 Midway Airport One Way$ZOOOaound Trip$JOOO 
. Availa.,le re•ruary 15th throqh March Jist. Tickets plll'CIIasal ualtle throqhout Ul6 
INSIDE 

INDIANA Or call,..traYd qat 



The Observer 
The independent student newspaper 
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
accepting applications for the following positions: 
1986-87 Business Manager and Managing Editor 
Applications must be submitted to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Friday, February 21, 1986. 
The Observer 3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Body English 

Denver Nuggets forward Alex English signed a new contract with the NBA team yesterday, and then wentoutand led his team to a 101-90 victory over the Washington Bullets. 



Jaspers 
continuedfrom page 12 
while Schiano has chipped in under­neath with 8.4 ppg. and five rpg. 
Other key weapons in the limited Jasper attack include 6-2 freshman Antoine Owens, who was a teammate of Notre Dame guard David Rivers back at St. Anthony's High School in New Jersey, and 6-4 sophomore Jamil Adams. Owens has responded well to the demands of the college game by contributing 
9.2 ppg., while Adams follows with just over eight points per contest. 
But Notre Dame, still smarting from Sunday's 75· 74 loss to Duke, should be able to rebound and take a bite out ofthe Big Apple's Manhattan team. 
In fact, the match tonight should give Phelps a chance to rest some of his battered players. Guard David Rivers, hampered by an assortment of nagging injuries, will see limited action as will forward Donald Royal who is still bothered by a hip bruise he suffered last week. Freshman guard Mark Stevenson, meanwhile, will be rested a bit as he continues to fight a bout with the ftu. 


Workouts 
continuedfrom page 12 
The weight training is the central focus of Notre Dame's off-season conditioning program. Players average about eight hours a week in the Athletic and Convocation Center weight room, a facility open only to varsity athletes. 
"Nowadays, any good head coach sees the importance in strength training," says Irish strength and conditioning coach Gary Weil. "Ten years ago strength training for foot­ball was kind of a luxury. Now you have to lift year-round just to keep up with the Joneses." 
W eil says he sees increased fervor in the off-season conditioning this winter with the advent of new head coach Lou Holtz. 
"I think there's been an increase in discipline," says the fourth-year head conditioning coach. "I think the team's outlook is very, very good. The guys really want to work hard." 
The atmosphere in the weight room, nevertheless, remains some­what light, as Weil can attest. He tells many stories about the bizarre ac­tivities of some of the players, such as senior linebacker Tony Furjanic: 
"I remember a couple years ago after a workout, when Furjanic took all of the dumbells off the dumbell racks and made them into a slalom course. He climbed up one ofthe in­clines, made believe he was an Olympic skiier -complete with speaking German · grabbed a couple ofbroomsticks we use for flexibility and went down the slalom course. 
"That was interesting." 


\liED.-Seniors, if you missed the last one... RELAX!! Time to be re­jected again! REJECTION NITE! 
Thurs.-1~000111 ClLAII 'AIVYDDD Enjoy the "calm" of South Bend, then get ready for the Storm! HURRICANE'S just like Pat O'brien makes!!! 
FRI.-VINO aRoma Nite Wine I Coolers, etc. !! 
SAT.-D.J.-Dance...all students come. 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1089 239-7521 
-----------------------------------------~-~-------------------------------------------­


~4(Jt4()lC3l~--------------------------------------w--e_d_ne_s_d_a.y,_F_e_b_ru_~_._1_9_,_19_8_6_-_p_a_g_e_l_l

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
© 1966 Umversal Press Syndicate 


l ~'I HAll!: TI<lED. 

Bur '7'00 J<JST C.:VLDN 'r rDON'r Kll/0\\1 WHAT 
"HE~ A Gf<EAI~, '' " 
SEEM ID fWN 11-IAT TI-WB­.::.OVL.D f41l<VE HA~El>. 
''l-IE~ FAIR ~\Nt> 11'1PAl<TIAt1 
sc.REW TI6HTENOUSI1, 1\101-J [ THDU61-1T I IJAS • CCXJL D'r'OU ~ ,---:...__ __, 
'-'IAAT IS nus .;...IRS.\5~ ?r 
I Mf'eRSONAC, HEART­
L£5:5 !>ND N._OOF, BUT.•. 

Campus 
•12:15 
P.M. -Meeting, "Spiritual Roots for Spring, 1986," Sister Francis Bernard, and "Women, Ministry and the Church," Sister Joan Chittister, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality 

•2:30 
P.M.-Tax Assistance Program, Center for Social Concerns coffee house 

•3:30 
P.M. -Computing Minicourses, SPF Editor: Room 23 Computing Center, Dis­playWrite3: Room 115 Computing Center 

•4:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "Origins and Develop­ment of a Bourgeoisie: Family and Enterprise In Mexico, Larissa Lomnitz, University of Mexico, Room 112 Law School, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg Institute 

•4:00 
P.M. -Forum, Pax Christi Forum on Non-Violence, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•6:
I 5 P.M. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for So­cial Concerns Building 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Meatloafwith Gravy Spaghetti & Spirals with Italian Sauce Broiled Sole with Lemon & Herb Sauce Chicken Salad Supreme on Kaiser Roll 

TV Tonight 
7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 MASH 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 28 Wheel of Fonune 16 Highway to Heaven 22 Mary 28 MacGyver 34 Mark Ruuell Comedy Special 22 Foley Square 34 Enterprise: "Billion Dollar Day" 46 Concert Book 16 Blacke's Maslc 22 Crazy Uke a Fox 28 Dynasty 34 The Planet Earth 46 LeseaAUve 

.. 

"Looks like another one of those stupid 'Incredible Journey' things." 
•7:00 
P.M.. Forum, "Optimism • the Worst Contraceptive," Karen Wians and Ella Hac· meyer, Saint Mary's, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry Sexualtly Education Forum 

•7:00 
P.M.-Saint Mary's Basketball, SMC vs. Aquinas College, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7:00 
P.M. -Movie, "The Joyless Street," So­cial Concerns Auditorium, Sponsored by Wednesday Night FIJm Series 

•7, 
9 & 11:00 P.M.-Movie, "Sophie's Choice," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, Sl.50 

•7:30 
P.M. -Discussion -Meeting, "Farmworker Week," Center for Social Con­cerns Buildig, Sponsored by N.D.F.L.O.C. Sup­port Group 

•10:00 
P.M.. Campus Perspectives, VInce Willis and Jodie Cantwell of the Around the Corner Club, WVFI·AM 6400, 


Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce BeefTaco with Hot Sauce 
10:00P.M. 
10:30P.M. ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 

Corn Souftle Quiche Lorraine 
16  St. Elacwhere  
22  The Equalizer  
28  Hotel  
34  A Walk 1bru the 20th Century:  
"2nd American Revolution Pan  
II"  
46  Calvary Temple  
46  Ouistian Financial Guide  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  Eyewitneae New11  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Pralac: the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  TJ. Hooker  -CBS late Movie:  
"Nlaflt Moves"  
28  ABC New11 Niafltllne  
34  Star Trek  

SPONSOR: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Wednesday ,February 19th and Thursday, February 20th 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 


SPONSOR: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

Friday, February 21st, $ll. () § (ID Saturday, February 22nd 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 



Wednesday, February 19, 1986-page 12

SRorts 
Irish get set to invade Big Apple for matchup with 2-23 Manhattan 
Courts and NCAA treat Skiles as special case 
Hello again, everybody! 


there are too many coaches who would have done the When you talk about court time around Scott Skiles, same as Heathcote. 
please specify. 

That's not the worst part ofthis case, though. The reason
Chuck
The 1\fichigan State guard has spent almost as much time Scott Skiles should not be playing basketball is not becausein court as on court this season. Skiles' two-year saga in­of suspensions from the NCAA or Michigan State. The

Freeby
cludes three arrests, one based on possession of cocaine reason he shouldn't be plaving is that he belon~ in jail. 
and marijuana and two coming on charges ofdriving while 
Irish Items 
intoxicated. Skiles' problems will come to a head Friday 
I am not alaw student, nor do I profess to be an expert on when a Marshall County (Ind.) Circuit Court judge will 
the legal system. However, I do know that drunk driving decide whether he violated his probation with his last DUI 
cases which begin in November usually are finished by
The NCAA legally has the authority to suspend players
arrest. 

February. Furthermore, people who violate probation
who play in unsanctioned leagues, participate in all-star
The rumor circulating around Skiles' hometown of usually are dealt with harshly by the judicial system. 
games, receive honors of excessive value or even lend
Plymouth, Ind., says the Spartan guard will be given a 30­But this is an unusual case. 
their picture for promotional use. However, the NCAA is
day jail sentence Friday, to be served after the completion 
absolutely powerless to do anything about a convicted
of the season. Skiles also may have his sentence shortened What makes it unusual is that the defendant just happens
felon. Something is dreadfully wrong here.
by two weeks for "good behavior." It is not a rumor that to be in the middle ofbasketball season. Somehow the judi­people in Plymouth are less than pleased about the entire cial system has acknowleged this fact through excessive
While the NCAA has an excuse for its lack of action (a
situation. delays and a postponement ofsentence until after the bas­
weak excuse, but an excuse nonetheless), Michigan State 
Plymouth is a small community located about 45 ketball season. 
University has no alibi. The school administration has
minutes south of campus on U.S. 31. It is an understate­Thus, it appears for three arrests, Scott Skiles will have 
taken no action on the matter. Spartan coach jud
ment to say the biggest thing that ever happened to this received a n 00 fine (marijuana conviction), performed
Heathcote initially did suspend Skiles, but reinstated him
town was when the high school boy's basketball team won 120 hours of community service (first DUI conviction)
four days later. Heathcote says he didn't keep Skiles to win
the state tournament in 1982. In Indiana, that feat guaran­and two weeks in jail. 
more games, but because he didn't feel his offenses war­
tees immortality. So much for the belief that justice is blind. Her scales 
ranted a suspension. 
Skiles certainly had risen to deify status in Plymouth. He have been tipped by a basketball. was the leading scorer on that '82 squad. He scored 39 Yeah,Jud. Right. points in the state championship game, including a 22-I'm sure the fact that Skiles ranked among the Big Ten Pick ofthe Week. . You probably won't see any footer at the buzzer to force an overtime. At the age of 18, leaders in four offensive categories last season never en­convicts, but you may see some great basketball this week he had the world by the tail. tered Heathcote's mind. Nor is Heathcote probably con­if you drop by the ACC. With all the varsity teams, on the 
Now his tail is in a sling. cerned that Skiles is second in the nation in scoring and has road, the spotlight falls on the interhall basketball playoffs. 
It has been no secret over the last six months that Mar­guided the Spartans to an almost-certain NCAA berth. Six men's dorms have advanced to the tournament, and shall County prosecutor FredJones wanted to make an ex­Come on,Jud! Whom are we trying to fool here? there will be plenty ofaction tomorrow night at the ACC. ample of Skiles by taking him out of bars and putting him Heathcote's actions are almost as inexcusable as those of Go out and cheer on your favorites, as the teams always behind them. What has kept Skiles out of jail and on the Skiles. There are some coaches who would have booted appreciate fan support. They may not be the Notre Dame court is a flawed system -not only a legal system but an Skiles Immediately. Jim Dutcher quit his job at Minnesota varsity, but these guys are probably better than some ofthe intercollegiate system as well. before his players even received a hearing. Unfortunately, teams that will be in the NCAA tournament. 
ByMARlY BURNS 
Asststilnt Sports Editor 
The Manhattan basketball team better think of something quick. That's because tonight at 9 p.m. in New York's Madison Square Garden, the jaspers will have to drag their 2­23 record onto the court against 14th-ranked Notre Dame in a game that should be every bit as close as the records indicate. 
The game, which will not be televised In South Bend, will be the second one of a college basketball
• doubleheader at the Garden. LaSalle and Army are scheduled to play In the opener. Although the overmatched Man­hattan team should not be able to seriously challenge the 17-5 Irish, Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps claims the contest can be of vital benefit to his NCAA tournament-bound team. 
"The thing we want to do over these last four weeks is stay healthy and get as many people as we can in a groove," said Phelps. "We've still got our share of good road tests ahead of us and this game can only help us down the line. We've had a 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team will defend its 1984-85 North Star Conference title when it travels to Evansville today to compete in the three-day North Star Conference championship meet. 
"A championship meet is decided by both power and depth," says Notre Dame swim coach Tim Welsh. "Our most prominent power· swimmers have been senior captain Anne Cochiolo and sophomore Amy Darlington. 
"We have agreat deal ofdepth and this is going to be an invaluable asset lot of different people have big games for us lately. We want as many of those people as possible to be playing that way when March gets here." 
But Notre Dame will not be the only team on the court tonight anxiously awaiting the month of March and the conclusion of the regular season. Manhattan head coach Tom Sullivan, who played on Phelps' 1971 NCAA team at Fordham, has found the goings tough so far in his first year at the jaspers' helm. 
For beginners, Manhattan lost two starting players, Including all-time career scoring leader Tim Cain, to graduation from a team that lost to Notre Dame last season by a 67-52 margin. The jaspers finished the 1984-85 campaign with an 8-20 mark, 4-1 0 in the Metro Atlantic Conference. 
little did Sullivan know when he took over the Manhattan reins this year that things would, or even could, get much worse. The first blow came before the start of the season when 6-1 junior guard Ed Lawson, who started all 28 games at the point for' Manhattan last season, 
for us in the championships. There is an 18-person limit and we had to cut down to 18 where other teams could not field that many." 
Competing against the Irish will be host Evansville, Butler, Val­paraiso, St. Louis, Xavier and Oral Roberts. 
"Evansville and St. Louisare pretty much unknown quantities to us," Welsh says. "We have not faced eit­her of these two this season. 
"We swam against Valparaiso in the Notre Dame Relays (Dec. 6) and again on Feb. 7. We swam well against them and won easily but they are an improved squad. 
was forced to sit out the year be­cause ofa back Injury. 

You won't find any twin towers in this Manhattan line, and that is mainly because of the second blow which struck the jaspers. After the third game of the season, 6-4 senior forward Tom Chance went down with a stress fracture of the femur. Irish fans may remember the bulky Chance from last year's battle at the ACC. Chance picked up nine points, five personal fouls, a leg Injury and a few stitches In the head in just 13 minutes ofplay in that game. 
Without Chance or Sullivan's ot­her starting forward, Maurice Wil­liams, who was leadingtheJaspersin scoring at 18.8 points per game before he was ruled academically in­eligible last month, Manhattan will have a tough time inside against the bruising Irish. 

Stepping in to face that un­enviable task for Manhattan will be 6-5 freshman Bret Holmdahl and 6-8 junior center Chris Schiano. Holm dahl has picked up some ofthe slack for the Jaspers, netting 12 ppg. and over five rebounds per game, 
see JASPERS, page 10 
1bc Obl~nV,..II'rt~


ND swimmers will try to keep title in North Star championship meet 
Irish forward Ken Barlow launches a jumper over Marquette's David Boone (25) and Tom Copa (54) in tbe Notre Dame victory earlier this month. Tonight Barlow and tbe 17-5 Irish will meet Manhattan. Marty Burnspreviews ~be contest in his story at left. 
"We also raced Buder in the Notre Dame Relays," Welsh continues. 

ND football team keeps fit 
"We have much more power and depth than they do. 


during off-season workouts 
"Oral Roberts just began its tion to the mandatory agility drills at 

6:15 every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning, team members presently participate in a rigorous weight-training program four days a week. This schedule will continue until the spring football season begins March 14, when a toned­down weight program will com­
mence. 
see WORKOUTS, page 10 
program this year so they still need a good deal of development and we raced Xavier already in the Relays." 
Welsh says he feels the first day of events will be the telltale sign for the outcome ofthe meet. 
"Watch the results of the first day," he says. "This is a good cross­section of events for the meet. If things go well the first day, watch out for the Irish." 
see IRISH, page 10 

By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
Monday morning, 5:47a.m.-Var­sity football players all across campus drag themselves out of bed. They grope around to find clean socks and stumble outside where they realize that the sun has yet to rise. It's time to play football. 
College football in the 1980's is indeed a year-round activity. 1n addi­







