,..,.-----~-~-­
'Mooning' it -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 30 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Man apprehended by ND Security 

By MARY HEILMANN According to a Morrissey resi­Assistant news editor dent who saw the suspect taken into custody, the man was ap­
A man allegedly armed with a prehended in the parking lot be­shotgun was apprehended by tween Morrissey and Lyons Halls. Notre Dame Security outside "I saw at least three security Morrissey and Lyons Halls at ap­guards around a man by a blue proximately 9:45 Monday night camaro," the student reported. according to several Morrissey "Police were searching his car residents. and taking out various items, 
The residents said the suspect one of which looked like a had an accomplice who had not shoebox. By the time I was been apprehended. He was last leaving the scene they had hand­seen running in the direction of cuffs on him and were putting Morrissey Hall, they reported. him in the police car," he added. 
Director of Notre Dame Secur­Morrissey resident assistants, ity Rex Rakow said a report on looking for the suspect's ac­the alleged incident had not yet complice, conducted a search in been filed. He would not release the hall, according to one RA. any further information. The accomplice was not found 
Reports that a shotgun was Monday night however, and it taken from the suspect's car was assumed he had left the dor­could not be confirmed Monday mitory, the resident assistant night. added. 
Reagan warns against false hopes for summit 
Associated Press Meanwhile, House Democrats, 
saying they don't want to hamper 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan's arms bargaining power 
Reagan sought Monday to dispel at the summit this weekend, said 
what he termed "inaccurate they were willing to compromise 
speculation and false hopes" on arms control restrictions 
that his summit with Soviet added to a Pentagon bud']et bill. 
leader Mikhail Gorbachev will "I believe we will be able to 
lead to new superpower agree­find a way to compromise," said 
ments. House Majority leader Jim 
Reagan also said he would Wright, D-Texas. "We do not want 
confront Gorbachev in Iceland to make his task more difficult 
this weekend on the Soviet we want to make it easier." 

Union's contined military opera­He said Democrats are talking 
tions in Afghanistan and "un­with Senate Republicans in an ef­
ceasing" human rights viola­
tions. see REAGAN, page 4 

training camp being held held at the Air 
French hos~ag~s plead Student chosen as pageant finalist 

for release ID VIdeotape 
By HELENE GOUDEAU Wimmer said the interview testsin 1983afterbeingnamed News Staff will be conducted by fivejudges Indiana's Miss Love's Baby Soft. and is the first part of the com­
Associated Press tactics the U.S. government used to gain the release of American Wimmer is an English litera­
Gertie Wimmer, a Saint petition. Questions asked will Mary's senior from Hobart In­pertain to plans for the future,
BEIRUT, Lebanon Three journalist Nicholas Daniloff from ture-Writing and German major. French hostages said in a the Soviet Union. All thre·e diana, has recently been cho­she said. She is also employed by The 
sen as a state finalist for the Observer as a Viewpoint writer
videotaped appeal for help Mon­Frenchmen were kidnapped title of 1987 Miss Indiana. The Wimmer also said she will be and Features copy editor. At
day that they believe their gov­early last year. ernment has abandoned them to In a similar videotape from Is­preliminary Miss U.S.A. compe­working with Nina Grills, who Saint Mary's, she serves as both 
a slow death and they cannot sur­lamic Jihad last Friday, two tition will be held December 7 copy editor for the Blue Mantle in Merrillville, Ind. at the 
yearbook as well as the news let­
vive captivity much longer. American hostages asked the Holiday Star Theater. ter commissioner for the Senior
Islamic Jihad, the fundamen­Reagan administration to work council.
talist Shiite Moslem group that as hard for their freedom as it Wimmer said she entered the "I am interested in pursuing
holds the Frenchmen and at least did for Daniloff's. three Americans, said it would That appeal was made by Terry competition in August, adding, a career in broadcast jour­free them if Kuwait releases I 7 Anderson, chief Middle East cor­"I was chosen to participate in nalism and I am now interning 
the competition when the with the WSBT eyewitness news
prisoners convicted of bombing respondent for The Associated 
pageant director received station. Working as the opera­
the U.S. and French embassies Press, and David Jacobsen, several of my pictures." The tions director at WSND also
there in 1983. director of the American Univer­winner of the competition is gives me experience in my
The Islamic Jihad statement sity Hospital in west Beirut. An­chosen on the basis of beauty, desired field," she said.
did not mention the American derson, 38, was kidnapped personality and intelligence,
captives, but the group made the March 16, 1985, and Jacobsen, 
she said, and added that talent Upon graduating from Saint
same demand in the past in ex­55, was abducted May 28, 1985. 
will not be considered until the Mary's, she said she hopes tochange for their freedom. In its statement Monday, Is­
national competition.
Copies of the 20-minute lamic Jihad said: "we still are attend Northwestern University videotape and the typewritten waiting for a serious move by the 
for broadcastjournalism, or theGertie Wimmer 

statement in Arabic from Islamic French government toward the Until the competition in University of Iowa for its crea­tive writing program. "What my
Jihad, whose name means Is­release of the 17 strugglers in December, Wimmer said she heads the leading modeling lamic 11oly War, were delivered Kuwait." must work at obtaining spon­agency in Indiana. Grills will career is depends on who ac­to offices of Western news It added: "France is capable of sors and advertisers, as well as help Wimmer with her walk, cepts me," she said. agencies in Moslem west Beirut. solving this issue and of getting preparing a wardrobe including speech and presentation, she Until then, she will be quite 
Hostage Jean-Paul Kauf-what itwants from the countries an eveninggown, swim suitand said. busy preparing for the Miss In­a dress for the judge's inter­Wimmer says that she be­diana competition to be held
fmann, ajournalist. appealed for of the area, which will lead to the view. came Interested in such con-on Dec. 7.
diplomacy by Premier Jacques release of three French hostages Chirac's government similar to with us." 

In Brief 
The pursuit of parietal revision at this time was voted down at last night's joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Pro­gramming Board and Board ofGovernance. The boards voted 
12-6 to keep the present system requiring men to leave their IDs at a parietal desk. The new policy would still require an escort in the hall, but it would not be necessary for men to leave an ID at a parietal desk. Judicial Commissioner Mary Fisher has started a student committee, independent of stu­dent government, to rally support for the new policy. -The Observer 
Results of the Saint Mary's elections runoff for freshman class officers have been announced. The new Saint Mary's freshman class president is Doreen Brown. Sheila O'Donnell will serve as vice president. while Elizabeth Ehret and Maria Zarko will occupy the offices of secretary and treasurer, respectively. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
The annual Arts and Letters Career Day will be held today from noon to 4 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education. The event sponsored by the Career and Plcement Services office, will feature 30 career represen­tatives who will answer students' questions and provide career literature. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores of all majors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
"Development Policies in Northeast Brazil" will be dis­~ussed in a Kellogg Institute lecture today from 4 to 6 p.m. m 122 Hayes-Healy. Speaking will be Dirceu Pessoa, director of the Economic Studies Division of Social Science Research Fundacao Joaquim Nabuco. -The Observer 
The Mexico City Foreign Study Program will hold an im­portant informational meeting tonight at 6:30 in I 03 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The American Chemical Society -Student Affiliates is hold­ing an informational meeting tonight at 7 in I 18 Nieuwland. All interested chemistry and chemical engineering majors are welcome. -The Observer 
As part of the week-long Multicultural Fall Festival, there will be a lithography display in the Snite Museum, a book display in the Memorial Library foyer, and multicultural din­ners in the dining halls. Today's fireside chat will feature Dr. Silvia Anadon speaking on Latin America at 7 p.m. in the International Students Lounge on the second floor of Lafor­tune. -The Observer 
Southern Methodist University Law School representative Regis Campfield will speak tonight from 7 to 9 in I04 and I04A O'Shaughnessy. He will speak on financial aid admis­sions, the law profession, and preparing for law ~hool. A question and answer session will follow the lecture, which is sponsored by the Notre DamCISaint Mary's Pre-Law Society. -The Observer 
Ethnic Minority-in-Law Night, sponsored by the Notre 
Darnel Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society in conjuction with the Notre Dame Law School, will be held tonight from 7:00 to 8:30 in the Law School lounge. Deans Link and McLean and Professors Crutchfield and Wright will speak. -The Observer 

Weather 
Today will be partly sunny, with highs in the low to mid 60s. Skies will be fair (and 'justly" so) tonight with lows in the mid to upper 40s. Tomorrow will bring partly sunny (and partly cloudy) skies, with highs in the mid to upper 60s. 


The Observer 
Design Editor . ........... Andy Saal Viewpoint Editor . .... Gertie Wimmer Design Assistant ... Mike 'Moj' Mojica Accent Copy Editor . .. Gertie Wimmer Typesetlers ............. Pat Clarke Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels ................ Becky Gunderman Typists ............... Colleen Foy News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia AdDesign .......... Sharon Emmite Sports Copy Editor . ...... Pete Gegen Photographer .......... Joe Vitacco 
TM Obwrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday eKcept during eum and vacation periods. TM Obwrver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing TM Observer, P.O. BoK Q, Notre Dame,lndiana46556. 
TM Obwrver is a member of TM Associ•ted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


'Bull sessions' an essential part of college social experience 
"Yeah. well, one night I had two papers, a lab prep, a physics test. and my parents were in town. so I hadda take 'em out to dinner." 
'That's nothing_ -I had a philosophy prof once who-" 
"What was his name?" 
''Harmemwell. Man. he was a -" 
"Oh. yeah, I heard about him. He use to think that Ood and mankind were supposed to live on some kinda direct-link-type relationship, whatever that means. Zat so?" 
"1\inda. He felt that some sorta 'Ultimate Fulfill­ment' was the absolute director ofall our actions, and we have to try to get on some kinda com­munal level with it. Can you believe it? Anyway, Harmemwell made us write a full-scale philoso­phy dissertation every night ..." 
The scene: it always begins innocently enough. You walk into a friend's room across the hall, pick up a photo album, a high school yearbook, or some other personal artifact, and a conversation begins. You start talking about all the work you've got to do, your teachers, your future, God, life, the universe, etc. Amazing. isn't it, how speedily two and a half hours whizzes by when spent dis­cussing such relevant subjects? 
Before you know it, you've succumbed to a com­mon college phenomena: the bull session. Or shooting the bulL the breeze, the wind. A Rap session. A discussion. Chattin~. Talking. 
You can get into one at any time or place, with anybody; although roommates are ideal bull ses­sion partners. Think it's ironic the bull session most often schedules itself at those wee hours of the morning. when you're awake anyway because you're working on a term paper? 
It's not. The bull session is just another way to blow off responsibility: "avoiding the task at hand," as one of my management-majoring room­mates described it. The bull session is an oft­chosen alternative to studying. 
"Waste of time," my dad always said. That was a part of the wisdom he bestowed on me before I left Tennessee for my first year at Notre Dame. "Don't ever waste any time sitting around talking abouLnothing at all." 
After more than three years of plunging myself into topics such as politics, sports, religion, movies and other pressing social and existential concepts, I must admit that not a word I ever heard or spoke in one of these late-night talks was ever useful to me. 
Like the popular conversation game "Trivial Pur­suit." bull sessions are a medium of useless facts and knowledge. But are the sessions themselves useless? 
In his semi-autobiographical work "Life on the Mississippi." Mark Twain describes the rough 
FA\IOL:S LAST WORDS FR0:\1 FRIE:'\DS TO FHIE!'\IlS. 
Notre Dame Avenue 
'Are you OK to drive?' 

Apartments
'What's a few beers?' 
NOWIIENTINGFOilFALL'Didyou have too much to drink?' 
'I'm perfectlyfine' 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, 
'I don't guzzle and drive, 
and off-street parking. 
I just embezzle andrun!' 
On site management & maintenence, 

I'm not as think as you drunk you are.  all deluxe features  
Move  in  before  October 15th  andget 
'I'd rather drink, drive, crash, burn, and have all ofmy Wham albums  ONE MONTH RENTFREE  
destroyed than talk to Claire.'  Office at 820 NO Ave  
DRINKING AND DRIVING  ~7  
CAN KU A FRIENDSHIR  CaUAnydme  

------------TheFourth Annual-----------.­
BUSINESS CAREERS FORUM 
Wednesday, October 8th 7:00pm in the Library Auditorium 
A chance to hear diverse speakers give insights about the world of business and how to get ready to enter it. 
THEEVENING'S SPEAKERS: 
John Hurley, consultant, Arthur Anderson & Co., Chicago Ron Nahser, president and CEO, Frank C. Nahser Inc. Advertising Agency, Chicago Mary Ann Weldon, director, financial controls analysis division, General Motors, Detroit 

Everyone is welcome to attend. An informal reception will follow the forum. 
lt.oiiiiii~ii~iiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii sponsored by the ND management Club ii 
Tripp Baltz 
News Editor 


The Bull Session 

river-running keel-haulers who sat around, filling each others· ears with the wildest. most colorful lies. These river-day versions of the bull sessions often came to blows, of course, but nonetheless they always established one thing. 
They designated who was the boldest and most fearsome of the pack, the so-called Big Cheese, or the "Cock of the Walk," as they called him in those days. 
Today's bull sessions feature the same bravado and exaggeration that graced those earlier, more violent ones. Each tale imparts to its teller the chance to stand alone in the spotlight with his opinion, funny anecdote, or memorable experi­ence. The spotlight shifts to a different center of attention as often as the subject is changed, with reckless disregard for what's being talked about in the first place. 
It's down in the trenches of daily discussion that friendships are formed and strengthened. Dad was right about the uselessness of knowledge gained from shooting the bull with my buddies. But what he didn't realize was how memorable such times would be during my years at Notre Dame. 
That's why as long as there's chapters to be read, tests to study for and papers to write, they'll all suffer. Because there is also people to toss the bull around with. 
I have a German paper due tomorrow, but you know what I heard about this new parietals revi­sion proposal .. ? 
The Observer 
Tuesday, October 7, I986, -page 3 




Soviet submarine sinks after crew abandons 
Associated Press The warheads atop one of WASHINGTON -A nuclear-those missile could very well 
powered, nuclear-armed Soviet have been blown into the sea and submarine, apparently doomed sank when the submarine expe­after experiencing a fire and ex­rienced a fire and explosion while 
plosion last Friday morning, submerged on Friday, said Vice sank and was abandoned by its Adm. Powell Carter Jr., the staff crew early Monday in the western director for the Joint Chiefs of Atlantic Ocean. Staff. 
The Soviet news agenq Tass said no lives were lost when the 
The other warheads have un­doubtedly been crushed and ren­
so-called Yankee-class sub­marine went down at approxi­dered useless by the pressure of the ocean's depth, he said, add­
mately 4 a.m. EDT, and the Pent­ing that the fuel inside the reac­
agon said it had no reason to tors is encased in a heavy metal
doubt that statement. that will likely deterioriate only
The vessel sank in waters over thousands of years.
18,000 feet deep approximately L 060 nautical miles to the east of Cape Hatteras, N.C., or Asked ifthe sunken submarine roughly 600 miles east of the is­posed a threat to the environ­land of Bermuda. A Soviet mer­ment, Carter responded: "Really, chant ship, which earlier hao ifyou're talking about radioactiv­been attempting to tow the ves­ity or a nuclear explosion, none." sel, collected survivors and remained in the area on Monday, The Soviet news agency Tass, the Pentagon said. which reported earlier that three 
Two ranking U.S. military offi-men had been killed in the initial cers said the sinking posed no fire, announced at midday Man­threat to the environment, even day (Eastern time) that the sub­

prayer meetings give participants a chance though the submarine was marine had gone down. It said to learn about scripture and share their re­
powered by two nuclear reactors the crew had been evacuated and and carried 16 nuclear­

ligious reflections in a casual atmosphere. up to that there was no further loss of 
tipped, SS-N-6 ballistic missiles. life.

r---·--------·-·----------1 ' 
1 Have a nose for news? Floodwaters move across Midwest 
1 Associated Press declared five new counties dis-to homes inundated by up to 8 i aster areas Monday, for a total feet of water when the Army ! Flood crests moved down-of eight. Corps of Engineers was forcedI stream across the Midwest on Flood damage to Oklahoma to open flood gates on nearly 
I 
If you do, The Observer Monday, allowing people to roads and highways is so overflowing reservoirs. return to some of the thousands widespread it may take months And while the flood crest on i news department needs of flooded houses from Okla-to even assess the damage, Dep-the Arkansas River moved past 
I 
! you. A special session on homa to Illinois, but other com-uty Transportation Director Muskogee, Okla., on Monday, at interviews for new munities were threatened as Monty Murphy said Monday. 4.5 feet higher than flood stage reporters will be held water from up to 2 feet of rain Traffic on Interstate 35 had to and expanded its normal 100­
l 
Wednesday at 7 p.m. All in· drained toward the Mississippi. take a 26-mile detour on two-yard width to three miles over A new levee break in Missouri lane roads because part of the farmland, the river was still rising terested should meet at slowly flooded two trailer parks deck of a bridge over the Cimar-downstream, the National Wea­l The Observer's offices on and National Guardsmen were ron River dropped about 6 ther Service said.1 the third Door of LaFor-sent to help evacuate them. inches, apparently because of i tune. All are strongly en· During more than a week of river bed erosion, he said. A two­! flooding, up to 48,000 people mile section of U.S. 81 between
couraged to attend. .
1 are estimated to have been Dover and Kingfisher was Senator says I forced out of their homes at one washed out by the river.1 time or another, including 1-70 across Missouri, however, public figure i 30,000 in Oklahoma, 15,000 in was reopened Monday, after ! Illinois, 1,000 in Missouri and being closed for 100 miles by 
_ I,500 to 2, 000 in Kansas.
I Ih QL.-..__ ,I high water since Wednesday. 'anti-student,'
I = ~ -e= -~~l==Vt:l.~ i At least eight deaths have been In Oklahoma's hard-hit I l linked to floods in that region. Bartlesville and in the Tulsa area, behind raids ----------------------' Illinois Gov. James Thompson many residents returned Monday 
By DAVID T. LEE News Staff

--MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL========t 
....... 
Looking for ways to ease the rash of party busts, Off-campus Senator Race Thoman suggested


TOMORROW'S EVENTS 
students get involved in a cam­
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8th 
paign to remove the city council­woman who Thoman said sup­ports the raids. 
South Bend Councilwoman

• Lithography Display Snite Museum at 9:00 
Ann Puzzello has been "hard on students," according to Thoman.

• St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer from 9:00-4:00 
"She has fostered a police men­
tality that is totally anti-student" Thoman said. 

• Indian Association Fieldhouse Mall 12:00-1 :00 
"Many robberies are blamed on students, when street gangs 
• Fireside Chat with 
are running wild," added Thoman. 
Dr. N azih Daher discussing 

the Middle East ISO Lounge at 4:30 
She said most off-campus stu­dents live in Puzzello's District

• Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls from 4:45-6:45 
Four, while Notre Dame lies un­der Roseland city council juris­

• Sudent Reception Snite Museum from 7:30-9:00 
diction. In a related matter, the Senate

• Movie: Running Brave esc at 9:00 
was informed of the reason that two resident assistants were dis­

MOKE COMING TOMORROW • • • 
missed from theirjobsas a result ofserving alcohol to minors. Hall Presidents' Council Representa­


tive Clay Stephens reported the "only reason (the University)
THE LAW CARAVAN 
acted on the RA's was that they
• 
were employees."
IS 
University Food Services Direc­


COMING 
tor William Hickey is considering a proposal to provide a 14-meal
Thursday, Oct. 9 12-4 pm 
plan for off-campus students in­
at Stepan Center 
stead of the current I0-meal 
llpanaa...d byttw ND-SIIC Pre-Law llclcl•ly 
plan. 





Financier offers nearly $8 billion to purchase troubled USX Corp. 
Associated Press The largest USX plant is the the SEC within I 0 days of the 
Gary Works in Indiana, where purchase. 
NEW YORK -Financier Carl about 6, 000 United Steel war kers 

lcahn offered nearly $8 billion in union members have been idle lcahn said in the SEC filing that 
cash Monday to buy USX Corp., since their national contract ex­he made the acquisition pro­
the troubled steel and energy pired at midnight July 31. The posal in a letter to the Pittsburgh­
giant that has been the subject company has called the work based company's chairman, 
of repeated takeover speculation stoppage at numerous plants a David Roderick, and its board of 
in recent weeks. strike and the union says it's a directors. 
The $31-a-share offer for lockout. 

USX's 257.3 million shares out­The bitter labor dispute is If USX accepted the offer, 
standing was one of the biggest caused partly by a slump in the lcahn said he would try to win 
acquisition proposals in U. 5. cor­steel industry. At the same time, contract concessions from its 
porate history and the largest USX's Marathon Oil Co. unit has steelworkers in exchange for part 
proposed leveraged buyout, a suffered from declining oil ownership of the company or 
transaction financed largely by prices. profit-sharing. 
borrowed money that is repaid lcahn, a New York investor who 'with the target company's earn­specializes in takeovers, said in Such arrangements, he wrote, 
ings or sale of assets. a filing with the Securities and would make USX "and the 
The proposal offered the pos­Exchange Commission that he domestic steel industry more sibility of giving USX's unions and the companies he controls competitive with foreign produc­part ownership in the company own 25.34 million shares of USX ers and provide greater and came against a background stock, or nearly I 0 percent. opportunities for USX's ofgrowing troubles at the parent employees." of the nation's largest steel­Under U.S. law, when an inves­USX spokesman Bill Keslar maker, a symbol of U.S. corpor­tor acquires more than 5 percent said the company had no com­ate might. of a company, he must inform ment. 
Higher risk of cancer among poor 
Associated Press Freeman and his committee diagnosed among the poor at 
called for more research, consid­later, less curable stages, he 
NEW YORK -Poor people run eration of government-provided said. higher risks of getting cancer insurance for cancer treatment. That arises partly because and dying from it, according to better cancer education for the medical care for poor people an American Cancer Society poor and more cancer screening. tends to focus on treating an im­report and a new study. The Pap smear for cervical can­mediate problem rather than 
Among the reasons are ciga­cer, mammography for breast providing services for preven­rette smoking and a tendency for cancer and rectal exams with tion, he said. cancers to be diagnosed at later, stool sampling for colorectal Institutional barriers could dis­less curable stages among the cancer are top screening courage a woman without insur­poor, scientists said. priorities, Freeman said. ance from getting a breast lump 
Research had previously found For overall cancer survival, diagnosed, for example, he said. disparities between blacks and Freeman said, poor people fare In addition, poverty breeds a whites on the frequency, and I 0 percent to 15 percent worse "day to day existence" that dis­deadliness of cancers, but a re­than middle-class patients. That courages thinking about pre­analysis shows that much of that gap is very close to national fig­venting future problems, he effect really comes from differ­ures that show overall cancer said. ences in socio-economic status, survival for whites at about 50 People in the lowest one-fifth said Dr. Harold Freeman, chair­percent and for blacks at about income group showed a 40 per­man of the committee that 37 percent, Freeman said. cent higher cancer death rate for produced the report. An income-linked disparity 1979-81 than those in the top 
"You can clearly show that also shows up for surviving spe­one-firth, his study found. poor people develop cancer cific cancers, such as those of The highest disparities were more and die more from cancer the colon and breast, he said. for cancers of the stomach, cer­simply because they're poor. It In terms of getting particular vix, respiratory system, ovary means you have to reassess how cancers, he said, poor people and fallopian tubes, while the you're confronting the problem show higher rates of cancer of lowest were for those of the brain as a nation and as a cancer so­the lung. cervix and esophagus. and nervous system, breast and ciety," said Freeman, director of About half the difference in the colon-rectum, said Lerner, a pro­the surgery department at Har­overall cancer death rate results fessor in the department of lem Hospital Center in New York. from a tendency of cancer to be health policy and manaqement. 

Student government officers bring business out in the open in front of the War Memorial. From left, Student Body Vice President Don Montanaro, Off-campus Commissioner Race Thoman and Student Body President Mike Switek confer while Tina Pidgeon, far right, chats with a fellow student.
•r----·-------------.,
I Witt 1\nigQts nftilt &stlt I 



I iii'"·'
we we/comeBack Haircut, Shampoo, I all faculty & C d"t" I
I andstudents Blow Dry, on I IOnI ~ Reg.$15 I 
I 54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. NOW $8 50 WITH COUPONI 
l
Across from Martm's on_ St. R~.23 •H • t I $6 1
Tues, Wed, Sat 8.30-5.30 wnH Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 a1rcu on y COUPON.
I 
sa Otter epplle1 to MALE patron• only. Heirmultbew·•-dayofcut. •

L----------------­
APPLY NOW! 
For a position with United Way of Notre Dame: 
e Vice Chairperson 

ghanistan, Central America, At the same time, Reagan
Reagan 

Africa and Southeast Asia un­brushed aside suggestions by dergo terrible sufferings as a conservative critics that by going
continued from page I 

result of Soviet intervention." to the summit, he is "sort on fort to "postpone any confronta­Reagan also said the Soviet communism." tion" over five major restrictions decision to arrest and hold U.S. The White House reinforced added by the Democratic-run News & World Report correspon­Reagan's view that the summit House to a stop-gap budget bill. dent Nicholas Daniloff on spy was a working session, by an­
Reagan, speaking to a busi­charges "underscores the differ­nouncing that Nancy Reagan 
ness group meeting at the White ences between our two systems. would remain behind in Wash­House, said in the strongest ington, despite plans by Gorbac­terms since the Iceland summit "It was an extremely grave hev's wife to qo to Iceland. 
was announced last week, that step, but one that could hardly he viewed it as merely a surprise us. Arter all, human Until Raisa Gorbachev's plans preparatory session for the full­rights violations in the Soviet 
were revealed on Icelandic tele­scale meeting he and Gorbachev bloc remain unceasing because vision, the United States had no envisioned after they first met in they are institutionalized and inkling that she would accom­Geneva last November. sanctioned by the state ideol­pany her husband to the hastily­Officials in both Moscow and ogy." 
called superpower summit. Washington have said both sides 
appear to be narrowing differ­ences on ways to reduce num­bers of medium and long range missiles, but Reagan said the purpose of the session in Reyk­

javik is "planning and prepara­is looking for dedicated students tions, not treaty signing and wanting to get involved in college publicity. journalism. Applications are now being accepted for the following
"I hope that in explaining all 

· positions:
this I have done something to dispel some of the inaccurate speculation and false hopes Assistant News Editor raised about the Iceland talks," he said. "I expect these. talks to 
Applications are due by Friday.
be useful and successful, but only as preparation for future Contact Mark Pankowski, Tripp summit conferences." Baltz or Lynne Strand at 239-5313 
He added, moreover, "It would or come up to the Observer office be simply unthinkable for world on the third floor of the LaFortune leaders to meet in splendid iso­
Student Center. 
lation even as the people of Af­
e Treasurer 
e Publicity Director 
Applications and info sheet in Student 
Government offices. 
Applications due Friday, Oct. 10 

~ THELAWCARAVAN ~ 
iC iC 
~ Thursday, Oct.9 ~ ~ /.~ 12-4p.m. ~~ ~ \._~, Stepan Center --· iC """ ' iC ~ .. iC ~ Over 200 nationally iC ~ recognized law schools iC ~ will participate iC 
t • t
•von't miss this chance to rub elbows ~ with the BEST! iC 
iC Co-sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and ~ iC Career and Placement Services i( 
----~------~~---~---~~­
; 
l 




HERE'S Will 

Theresa new career option for todays quantitative graduates. Its not in academia. Its not in Corporate America. Its not in the Silicon Valley. 
Its on Wall Street. 

Today, Wall Street "quants" are literally shaping the future of high fmance. They're developing a new generation of investment products, pioneering new ways to improve profitability, and creating new opportunities for investors and issuers. And for their quantitative creativity, they're being recognized with qualitative rewards. With challenge, responsibility and recognition. 
Yet you might be surprised to learn that many ofWall Streets most successful "quants" have no prior experience in fmance or economics. They come from backgrounds in math, physics, engineering, operations research, computer science, and other quantitative disciplines. 
Today, Wall Street firms are hiring more quantitative graduates than ever, and Salomon Brothers Inc. is no exception. A major invest­ment banking and market-making firm, we're Wall Streets leading employer of "quant" graduates. And since our research and tech­nologymanagement departments are the most respected in the industry; you'll be working with some of the top talent in your field. 
Want to learn more about the challenge of working with a Wall Street leader in one of today's most rewarding quantitative careers?Don't miss the Salomon Brothers presentation scheduled for your campus: October 14, 1986; University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn; 7-9pm 
Salomon Brothers Inc 
Market Makers and Investment Bankers 
One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004 Allama, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, London (affiliate), Los Angeles, San Francisco, Tokyo (affiliate), Zurich 

"ieVV~_O_i_n__t____________~Tue-sda~-oct-ober_~,g_a~--~g-e6 
Question of the week: World Series 
Viewpoint What Major League baseball team do you think will 
Policy

win the World Series and why? How many games 
Viewpoint will be focusing on one timely campus, national or international issue each Tuesday in the "Question of the week" sec­


will it take to clinch the title? 
tion. We would like you to address these issues. 

Respons es must not exc eed 100 words and  
Students respond on campus infirmaries  must list nViewpoint  ame, major, hawill print as  ll and year. many legitimate  
responses  as space allows  each Tuesday.  In  
''I  think  the  infirmary  should  run  its  "Although I never have had  to  use  the  "The infirmary does not seem  to really  the  event  that  all submi ssions  cannot  be  
r r  schedule by appointment. Most infirmary cases are not emergency situations, so it  facility, I think the infirmary is handling the situation adequately. I know they  help in some instances. If you have a cold, they tell you to take aspirin and  printed, threpresenta ose appearing in tive ofall responses.  Viewpoint will be  
would be a lot more efficient to have ap­ make referrals to outside doctors if an  won't let you see a doctor. They are under­ 
pointments. When I sprained my ankle I  optomotrist, dentist or specialized doctor  staffed  and  need  more  overnight  This  w eek's  World  Series  question  
waited one and 112 hours. The infirmary  is needed. They also provide blood drives  facilities. Last year I had a bad case of  responses  must be receive d by 5 PM on Fri­ 
would run more efficiently if they had bet­ which is a benefit to the community."  the  nu and couldn't stay because all of  day.  Last  week's respons es to the infirmary  
ter  organization.  Students  have  busy  the beds were full."  question c a n be found to th 
schedules and shouldn't have to wait all  Tim Lackey  e left.  
day."  Lisa Connor Math Senior  Pre-Med Junior Flanner Hall  Jennifer Wachter History-Government Senior LeMans Hall  The Viesuggestionweek."  wpoint Departms for future " ent will also take Questions of the  
Lewis Hall  




P.O.BoxQ 
Appearance of student houses can draw crime 
Dear Editor: 
Although Mary Jacoby in her article of 
October 2, contrasts the student's con­
cern with crime in the Northeast neigh­
borhood and the neighborhood reis­
dents' concern with student parties, she 
did not explore a possible correlation be­
tween these two issues. 
We are one of the many university families who live in this neighborhood. In the past fifteen years we have had only one theft. .. a bicycle which was left out­side ofour garage. We have had no rocks thrown through our windows, our car has not been vandalized. How can it be that we have very little trouble and students have so much? 
Students are such wonderful targets for crime. Rather like attractive nuisances, they seem to invite thieves into our area. Our students are not the starving variety who have sold their extra shirt for a textbook; rather they come equipped with "$7,000 worth of jewelry and other items," which they consider indispen­sable in obtaining a higher education. Students are rich pickings. 
Not content with stocking a treasure trove for potential thieves, students then advertize thier location. Students may notice that permanent residents rarely hang banners across their porches, play their stereos at full volume or entertain large numbers of people in their front yards. We do not generally drag our couches outdoors to sunbathe or deco­rate the yard with litter. A casual drive through the neighborhood is all that is needed to pinpoint student houses. 
Houses earn reputations. While this year's student resident may be a paragon of prudence, last year's party crew may have firmly established the address as a student's house. Did you think to ask the landlord about previous burglary? 
Residents of the Northeast Neighbor­
hood are concerned about crime. We do 
not like being considered a high-crime 
area (much less being considered thieves 
ourselves), we do not like the effect it has 
on our real estate value, we do not like 
the possibility that crime might spread 
from the student houses to our own. We 
don't even like students being robbed. 
But we are well aware that the problem 
will not be solved until all of the off­
campus students are willing to live in the 
neighborhood in a responsible manner. 
Carole Roos South Bend Resident 

More participants and trophies seen at runs 
Dear Editor: 

In response to Mark Weimholt's column "Non-Varsity Domer Runs too much in the Fast-Lane" (Sept. 29, 1986), I would like to clarify some information about the Domer Run. 
Really, the Domer Runs haven't changed as much as Weimholt thinks they have. Non-Varsity's goal has always been to provide a fun, safe and challenging event for both the recreational runner and the serious racer. 
In 1984, NVA added a three-mile run to give more runners at various levels the opportunity to participate. Incidentally, the growth of the three-mile run has been super -18 people ran in the first Domer 3, compared to 89 in the most recent one ( 113 three-milers signed up). 
We have continued to call the runs just that -the Domer Runs -instead of the Domer Races, for precisely the same reasons that Mark mentioned. We want fun-runners and competitors to be able t0 enjoy what we think are the best-run runs on campus. 
We have also been having door prizes at the runs the last couple of years to encourage all runners to participate, not just potential trophy winners. We did have more trophies this year than in the past. With as many runners as we have, we felt second place finishers deserved a trophy as well. 
The awards that were being handed out as Weimholt crossed the six-mile finish line were for the three-mile race. For the first time, NVA ran the three-and six-mile races simultaneously. We have always presented the three-mile awards at the conclusion of that run. Since there was over 41 minutes' difference between the first place three-miler and the last place six-miler, we didn't think it was fair to ask those being presented awards to wait. Presenting awards for the shorter run before the conclusion of the longer one is a common practice. 
The Domer Runs and their sister race the Irish Spring Runs have been very popular events at Notre Dame. We're glad that people like Mark Weimholt and his friend Chris enjoy participating 'just-for­the-fun-of-it." We'll be cheering for you in the spring. 
Sally A. Derengoski Assistant Director Non-Varsity Athletics 

Doonesbury  Garry Trudeau  
ANO 7H& BOYS 7HINI<  
RUNA6AJN'3T  5H£'5 V&RY, V£RY VUl-­ ATC05T!  
tACEYrYOU  N£RABl8 ON 7H8 PR/J'E1  THAT'!>A  
! CAN'Tet  WA!<.I'3SU8. IN FACT,  V£RYIM­ 
t 5£/(1()()5,  tAJ£'V8 o&e.tf?8P wuse  RJRTANT  
• aYO&.  ITA?MYCAMPA!GN  015TINC770N1  
I  7H£Mf3'  "  
"  

Quote of the day 
"Beauty beholder."  is  in  the  eye  of  the  
A1arg aretllungerford (1855-1897)  

General Board 


Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief.. ... , ... , ......... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Viewpoint Editor . ... , , .......... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ..... , ......... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . .. , ......•...... Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 

ND/ SMC 
"MOONS" 
ever before. People loved the show and JOE BUCOLO soon made it part of their weekly FEATURES WRITER schedule. "Moonlighting" quickly became 
an American pasttime. If there is one thing that is always evi­For those who have been detained in 
dent on the Notre Dame campus, it is the barren deserts of Africa for the past trends. Students at this school are into two years and don't know what "Moon­every possible trend: wine coolers, Jams, 
lighting" is, it is a show about two people, Swatches, you name it. One of the hottest 
Maddie (Cybill Shepherd) and Dave (Bruce trends on campus showed itself proudly 
Willis), who run a detective agency called at about 8:55 last Tuesday night, Sept. 
"Blue Moon," hence the title "Moonlight­
30. The trend is "Moonlightin~." 
ing." Together, these two solve crimes of One-and-a-half television seasons ago, 
the strangest sorts. Dave is a witty and a new show called "Moonlighting" ap­
very funny guy who plays much more than peared. It was an awkward show that com­
he works. Maddie, on the other hand, is bined detectives and comedy, two ele­
more conservative. She drives a BMW, ments that mix about as well as oil and 
which says it all. 

water. The show started late in the season and received mixed reviews. While some liked the show, most found it unamusing. "Then, at about 8:55, it 
As a result. it soon began to flounder in 
happened. As the show
the ratings. At the end of that season, the show's future was in question; ABC was ending, Maddie and threatened to end the show's short life. 
During the summer of that season, Dave kissed! It was only however, ABC used reruns of the show. 
a dream but that didn't

It was then that something incredible happened: the show's audience increased matter to the students..." incredibly and the ratings began to im­prove. Viewers wrote to the network and told it to keep the show. Because of this A third character, Ms. Dipesto, is just immense response, ABC renewed the as popular as the main characters she show for the '85 -'86 season. supports. Dipesto works as the "Blue 
Last year, the show that was doomed Moon" secretary and is full of cute and from the start reached new highs in the funny ways to answer the telephone. Each ratings and attracted more attention than week, Maddie and Dave (and Ms. Dioesto. 

/ 


Tuesday, October 7, I 986, -page 7 


too) solve a mysterious and usually "Moonlighting" fans in South Bend (andbizarre case. 
across America) were beginning to see Funny plots and great characters don't their dreams turn into realities. always satisfy the viewing audience. Be­
People watch "Moonlighting" every

cause Maddie and Dave have become part 
week for many reasons. Saint Mary's Judy

of the viewers' families, they must meet 
Beacom says she likes the "repartee" that

certain expectations. These days, the 
the show offers.

viewers aren't satisfied until Maddie and Dave become romantically involved. Ever "Besides, it offers a good escape from since last season, viewers have hoped studying." Notre Dame freshman Vince and prayed for Maddie and Dave to "get Pellegrini says. "I see a lot of myself in together," and it's more important to Dave. His mixture of comedy and class viewers than the writers ever thought it make for the ultimate personality." That's would be. why Pellegrini never misses an episode. 
At 8:00 p.m. on Sept. .30, "Moonlight-Kelly Ryan likes the show because ing" began to show its episode. As usual, "Maddie and Dave play games with each it was great. Then, at about 8:55, it hap-other's minds and keep the viewers won­pened. As the show was ending. Maddie dering if they'll ever get together." and Dave kissed! It was only a dream, For these reasons, and a few others, but that didn't matter to the students at "Moonlighting" has become one of Notre Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. As Maddie Dame, and America's, hottest shows. and Dave's lips met, loud screams and Will Maddie and Dave kiss again? Will cheers were heard all over both cam-· Maddie and Dave get married? Will Ms. puses. It was incredible. If a tourist had Dipesto think of even more clever been on campus, he would've thought riddles? Tune in and find out. One thing that a pep rally was going on. He would is for sure, most Notre Dame and Saint never guess that an entire campus was Mary's students will spend their future cheering for a TV show. Hundreds ofavid Tuesdays moonlighting. 
*···········································~ ~
* ~
* ~ 
~ Get into 
* ' ~ 

~ the spotlight. : 
* 
~

* 
~

* 
~ 


~

* 
The Features Department of The Obser-iC : ver is looking for writers interested in art, !

* 
theatre or movies. See the Features Editor ~ ~

* 
for more information and see your name ~ : up in lights-well, in print anyway. ! 


* 
~

* 
~ 


\******************************************: 
--~---------------------------­


Sports Briefs 
The ND Men's GolfTeam won the Irish Invitational yesterday on Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish compiled a score of 300, followed by Detroit with a 31 0 and Glen Oaks with a 
318. Sophomore was the top finisher for the Irish with a 72, followed by Pat Mohan (75), John Connelly (76), Norm Campbell (77), and Chris Bona (80). -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will have its first organizational meeting today in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in trying out for the team or in the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, should attend. If you have any questions, call Kathy (4029), Jeff (3660), Joe ( 1 190) or Lisa (284-4415). -The Observer 
The NO Raquetball Club will sponsor a women's clinic today from 8 to 9 p.m. at the ACC Court One. All are welcome. For more information call Dave Pyron at 1393. -The Observer 

Two Hydrorobics classes are being sponsored by NVA this semester. Monday and Wednesday evenings, participants meet at 6:45 for an hour of aerobics in the water. Tuesday and Thursday at 12:15 p.m. there is a half-hour class. Call NVA at 239-6100 or stop by one of the classes for more details. -The Observer 
In the NFL last night, two records were broken in Seattle's 33-7 victory over San Diego. In the second quarter, Steve Largent's 17-yard reception from Dave Krieg was the I 28th straight game he has caught a pass, breaking Harold Car­michael's mark of 127. And in the third quarter, Charlie Joiner set a career receiving yardage mark on a 20-yard pass from Dan Fouts. He ended the game with I I, 855 career yards receiving. -Associated Press 
Irish 
continuedjrompage 12 

more Tony Kahill with partner Wallace posted wins over Oral Roberts and Evansville. At second doubles, Carr and Reitter were undefeated. At third doubles, three different teams each representing the Irish lost. 
Despite the lost to Western Mic­higan, Notre Dame won the tournament due to their direct win over Evansville, who also finished with a 2-1 record. Oral Roberts placed third and Western Michigan fourth in the tourna­
ment. 

The tournament gave Fallon a good chance to look at the team. He says that from here on out the team will play challenges amongst themselves and work on the doubles combinations. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Wordprocesalng resumes, Typeset quality. 287-9024. SAME-DAY TYPING NO Pick-up Quick-Type, Inc. 277-8998  II WANTED ~--------------~ SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is now hiring children's ski Instructors for the winter season. Salary plus room & board. Contact Martha Mandel etc. or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911. EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR As a delivery driver you must have your own car. Hours are flexable. PIZZA HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 t.2 DIXIE WAY NORTH.In Roseland around the  I NEED GA's FOR PITT CALL MIKE£ 1658 DESPARATELY NEED 3 PENN ST. TICKETS, STUDENT OR GA. FAMILY IS COMING FOR BIRTHDAY. PLEASE CALL MARY, 272-5783. I have many bros and sisters coming for A-F gamell NEED TIX! PLEASE HELP ME! CALL MARK AT 4302!$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  DRUIDS ARE COMING to worship at Stonehenge. They would also like to see the Fighting Callie peoples destroy the barbarian cadets of Air Farce... Please sell me two GAs and help a great religious cause. Call Andy at 283-1650 NEED 4 PITT GA'S IN THE WORST WAY.HAVE 1 PITT AND 1 AF STUD TO SELL MARK 1666.  ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7. NOON TO 4:00P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCA­TION ALL ARE WELCOME. ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7. NOON TO 4:00P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCA­TION ALL ARE WELCOME.  IM DRIVING TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR BREAK-NEED RIDE TO OR VICINITY? CALL SUZETTE 233-5396. Karen! I can't remember the wonderful quote I had about men and machines last night. Wasn't II something about satisfaction running out with the bat­teries? RRRRI'dlck'ulous. HEY, who's got the most Pxploslve of­lanse? WE DO! Who's got the most  
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-8131. Professional word processing and typing. Convenient location on N. Iron­wood. Call NICS 277-4220.  corner on Murray St. HELP! NEED A RIDE TO PHILA AREA AFTER AF GAME. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL TED X4074. NEED RIDE TO MNPLS. 4 BREAK. WILL PAY$. KATHY X2891 DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO LloNYC FOR THREE LOVELY  HELP parents coming and I have no tickets, they will suck out my liver If I don't gel 2 or 4 GA's for AIRFORCE: CALL JEFF £1560 NEED 4 GA'S FOR PITT & AIR FORCE. CALL GAIL KRZYSKOWSKI 284-5139. NEED 2 SMU GA's Call Karen 272-5783 Lots SSSS  I NEED SOME PITT GA'S WILLING TO PAY$$$$$ PLEASE CALL DON X2266 I desperately need 2 PENN STATE tick­ets. Please call Kathy at 4049. $$ WANTED $$ PENN STATE GA's TOM £283-1310  "WANT TO WRITE A BOOK" ?I NEED HELP!! 15 years of study has gone Into data & research. Subject dlelohutrlllon. Would like underclas­smen, graduate student or faculty member talented In writing. Reply to: NO Boxholder, P.O. Box 33, Osceola, Indiana 46561  devastating defense? WE DO! Who's gonna win? WE ARE! LET'S GO B.P.­BEAT FARLEY!! Quit slamming that door open. BUSINESS CAREERS FORUM Listen to diverse speakers from the business world give advice on business careers  
LOST/FOUND LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE­GIES text In Hurley. If found, please  LADIES.LEAVE AFTER AIR FORCE, WILL BAKE COOKIES FOR THE RIDE BESIDES SHARE DRIVING AND EX­PENSES. PLEASE CAll PAT AT 3714. THANKS I  I need 3 ga's or student llx !orr Air Force game. Please call RJ at 2129. YOU WANT EM, I'VE GOT THEM I AIR FORCE TIX! 2 GAs & 3 STUDs Insist  MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR PITT OR AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA'S) PLEASE CALL 283-2493, JOHN.  PITT CLUB PITT CLUB PITT CLUB PITT CLUB SIGN UPS FOR OCT. BREAK BUS AT 8:00 ON TUES. 1G'7 AT SOUTH DINING HALL  Wednesday evening at 7 al the Library auditorium All are welcome Sponsored by NO Management Club  
return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyons Hall or call 283-2999.  Need riders to Youngs. Ohio area lor Fall Break. Call Elaine 284-5077.  on trade for 2 Penn or SMU GAs Chris 4335  Have 2 Air Force GA's. Need 2 or 4 SMU GA's. Will trade and/or buy. Call 1-609-354-0227.  "Why did Babe shoot Zachary?" "Causa she didn't like his looks, she  I THOUGHT IT WAS LAST FEBRUARY, NO I THOUGHT IT WAS IN JULY OF  
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at 1712 for positive 1.0.  Need ride to No. NJ for break. Janet 284-4346.  I NEED 2 PITT TIX!! CALL KEVIN AT 4006 OR 4277.  I NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'SII 'RENTS WILLING TO PAY BIG$$, CALL MIKE  just didn't like his sllnkln looks." These and other serious philosophical thoughts In CRIMES OF THE HEART,  1982, NO IT IS REALLY TODAY. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY PAT CLARK!  
HEY  YOU  -I'LL  PAY  MORE  THAN  AT 177911  Oct. 8 thru 12, O'Laughlln Aud.  
LOST:FRIDAY NIGHT AT BRIT­GETS ... OLD BLUE JEAN JACKET CONTAINING KEYS AND LICENSE. THIS JACKET HAS EXTREME SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE, IF YOU'VE SEEN IT, CALL 2172 OR STOP BY 433 LEWIS. REWARD OFFERED. I NEED MY BACKPACK!!!!! If you find a red KREEGER & SONS backpack please call Faith Ellen at 232-5743. Thanks. FOUND!! KEYS, GLASSES, CAL­CULATORS, BOOKS ... STILL LOCKED OUT OF YOUR ROOM? GETTING WET EVERY TIME IT RAINS BECAUSE YOU CAN'T FIND YOUR UMBRELLA? CHECK THE LOST AND FOUND OF­FICE!! FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE, OPEN MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, 8:00­12:00 AND 1:00-5:00  FOR SALE TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex­1.7316. 1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, A~M,5-speed, No Rust, Very Reli­able, $1,650, 233-9947. MUST SELL--Round-trip ticket to LOS ANGELES for Oct. break. Best offer. £1674  EVERYONE ELSE FOR 2 OF YOUR PITT GA'S ASK FOR BILL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE 283 4052 PSU PEUKS coming out for game! Need MEGA PENN STATE tlx. Nama your price, GA or STUD. Warren (£1206)!! SELLING my PITT std lkl -Chrls272­7649 (nights) Two GA's needed for PITT game -Call 288-6364 (Jens) HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TIXS NEED 4 PITT TIXS, TRADE ONLY MIKE 277-4960 Parents want to party at NO, Need 4 AF GA's and 6 SMU GA's. Call Dave  Need 2 AF GA's,call Rob 2355 Help I I need 4 Pitt GA's In a bad way. $$$Involved. Merit 284-4298. Deperately need 2 ancVor 4 GA tickets lor Pill game. Please call Ludy or KT at 289-3716 If you can help. I need 3 for Air Force please! Molly 284-5123. Need 2 Tickets ItA! or 11115 Desperate: 232-5282 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  bp b.p. B.p. B.P.-LOOK SHARP!! Watch out Farley, hera comes THE BLITZ! HI Suzy!! I hope your polson Ivy Is getting bellar. You bellar be keeping my room clean! Love, Mike · BIRTHDAY TAG!! Mike Busato Is II today! Coma gel that birthday present In 139, Mike! VANNA WE HAVE EVIL. SEND 4 FREE VOWELS TO ERNEST SPERM WHALES OR EVIL WILL BE RETURNED HAIR BY HAIR. THE SHOE SHINE BOYS Notre Dame Is like the Green Bay  DOC E SIRRY 4EVER BOUT V-1000. SIGNAL 8 113 T-16:45 1 OXO J12 SENIORS!!!SENIORS!!!SENIORS!!! Have you been wondering when you'll get to use those Infamous GOLD CARDS again? Well, this Wednesday night (10-08-86) Is Senior night at HANS HOUSE Your Gold Card will entitle you to 20% off the dinner check and Half-Price Beverages HANS HOUSE HANS HOUSE HANS HOUSE TO JOHN, MIKE AND "CHUCK": THANKS FOR AN EVENTFUL AND COLORFUL EVENING AT FARLEY'S SYR. WE DON'T REMEMBER THE  
LOST: Radio Shack calculator. found, please call James at x1150  If  1978 NOVA, STICK, 4 DOOR, GOOD TIRES. $350. 259-2014  at 2271 Think of the most beautiful girl In the  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Packers because 1. Both teams last had great seasons under Dan Devine  FINER DETAILS, BUT WE HAD A BLAST!! WISHING YOU A SPEEDY RECOVERY! LOVE, THE WASTOID,  
l  •• LOST: BLUE AND GOLD NO BOOK­BAG .. CONTENTS: NOTEBOOK, FOLDER, CALCULATOR, TEXTBOOK, ETC.'' WHERE: NORTH DINING HALL .. WHEN: 1G2-86 .. REWARD: $50.00 FOR NOTES AND FOLDER $100.00  TICKETS $$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ DAN 3273  world, and then Imagine her In need of two PENN STATE GA's, then you understand my situation! Don't you want to help her out? Call Janice at 284-4095.  Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? Desparalely need a ride for Fall Break! Call Rob at1546. Will more than share expenses. Grace Hall SYR It's comingI Grace Hall SYR It's comlngl  2. The subsequent coaches at each place had no coaching experience In their new league 3. Paul Horning did great things at both places 4. Green Bay, like NO, can only beat teams from their home stale  THE PORCELAIN GODDESS, AND SPUD. HEY POTATOE HEADS! NEXT TIME REMEMBER TO USE THE YELLOW  
I I I I  FOR EVERYTHING NO QUESTIONS ASKED .. CALL: MIKE MELIA 329 ZAHM HALL 283-1111 Found: set of keys. Room 202 and mall key. On South Bend Tribune kay chain. Found In CompMath building terminal room. If they're yours please call 2129 to clelm. LOST: GOLD WATCH WITH CLIP DIAMONDS ON DIAL.VALUABLE PRIMARILY AS KEEPSAKE­DECEASED SISTER'S WATCH. MOREAU HALL-REGINA  IN A PANICII Family coming In from Jersey and Ohio for PITT GAME­ENEED SIX TIX-GA.STUDI Staph 272­5417 HELP! P.W. Partner(my boss) needs 4 GA & 2 studenlllckets for Pitt Oct. 11. I love my Job & my llfell Call Joanna (716)837 -9176 I NEED PITT GAS & All HOME GAMES.272-6306 I NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA'S PLEASE CALL 2157  RAMBO FANSI He needs three AIR FORCE GA's Im­mediately. Either catch him at the weight room (you'll recognize him) or call him el 2274 and ask for Paul (his real name). ARE YOU FROM OREGON? Then you can Imagine what It means to have your dad fly all the way In and have him aee a NO football game. Help me out by selling me your AIR FORCE GAl Ask for Mike at 2443. I need 1 Pitt 11x call Dan x4101  FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READY TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS. Ride Needed NYC1..1-Westchester Area For October Break -Can Leave Thur Will Share Expanses. Call 2853 or 3010. SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 -INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF  5. Both teams often use several QB's In the same drive 6. NO Is also negotiating for Jim Everett 7. Knute Rockne was born In Norway; Green Bay Is also north of civilization HELP!! I NEED A RIDE FROM NOR­THERN NJ BACK TO NO AFTER BREAK. I CAN MEET YOU ANYWHERE IN NJ. CALL FRANK 1502  CORD, DAMMIT! M & M PLEASE ATTEND PROF. GRIFFITHS' DISCUSSION ON "THEORY AND TECHNIQUES OF BUDDHIST MEDITA­TION" TOMORROW EVENING AT 10:00 PM IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY. THIS EVENT IS FOR THEO MAJORS AND ALL OTHER INTERESTED PER­SONS. RUT-ROHI TODAY IS MARGOT MACHECA'S 20TH BIRTHDAY!! Yap, It's only her 20th but that doesn't  
I I I  HALL.REWARD. CALL SR. MARIA 284-4490 FOUND -pair of wire-rimmed sun­glasses outalde the stadium after the Michigan game. In a brown case. Call £1206 to claim.  NEED ONE OR TWO GA'S FOR PITT -cALL CURTIS AT 1421 NEED 6 PITT GA'S. CALL PATTY 284­5257.  I NEED PITT GA'S OR STUDENT TIX CALL GARY 2252 YO! I need two Pitt GA'a. Call Stave, 1850.  ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE).  SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEET­ING tonight at 7:00p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy MANDATORY FOR ALL SAC MEM­BERS  really maller, now does It? This could be a big year though: It very wall could be the year she overcomes her desire for...wall...certaln types of men. Get herday off to a great start -call GO-GO at 2764 and wish her the happiest day.  
~ ~ ~ I I  Lost-To the girl who found my credit cards at the Michigan game, I need them. When you called I waa buZZed and did not remember your name, ao I don't know who to call. Plaasa call me. Joe x2320  NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME. 284-5320. $$$$ ANSWER MY PRAYERS and sell me 2 GA'a to the AF game. Call me eter­nally grateful. But plaasa, call me, Mary (after 8 PM) 283-3090.  I NEED SIX PITT G.A.'S. CALL DOC £3390 need 2 PSU !IX will trade 2 AF GA'a or top all oHers Ill mike -2388 Need 2 PITT GA'a.Have 1 AF GA and  Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. WASHINGTON D.C.BUS SIGN-UPS  If you're not on a committee but would like to help make this year our best one yet, please feel to attend. SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEET­ING TONIGHTIII  Only your true buda would do this to you. We love you! Happy dayl 'se and 'thy BUSINESS CAREERS FORUM Wednesday at 7  
i  Hewlett Packard calculator-SMC par­lor room HCC, name on back. If found call 284-5235.  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.s. PLEASE CALL MELISSA 283-3848. NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'5-famlly'a ffra1 vial! CALL 272-3463 attar 9:30  SS.Call Mark £1488. NEED MORE PENN ST. GA'S, BAD I FRED 289-9225 NEED 2 PITT TIX EVEN WORSE I FRED  TUES., OCT. 7th from 6-7pm In the lobby of LaFortune ?'a call Kevin Vlroatelc 1570 CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE  HELLO, K-TOWN, Life's a -and than you die. That about auma up the leal week or so. Pleasa send cookln, cash and Stuttgarter Holbrau. Hello, Amanda.  Library auditorium HAIL THE DEMISE OF THE THREE RIVERS JINX Hey, Dave: Go Browns!  
FOR RENT  PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE! I NEED  289-9225 Plaasa Pleasa Please  CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE -THROW A  Wed. Oct.8 Ia senior night at HJ'a In Niles 8:30-cloae. 21 ID requl...cl$1.70.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR PARENTS FOR NOVEMBER GAMES AND SPECIAL WEEKENDS. (1-219­291-7153).  'EMIIIII! I Deaperatety Need 1 Or 2 Pitt. GA'a or Stuclent'a. Willing To Pay Big $$1. Call Jim At 1011.  Sell me 2 Pitt atudent tlx (or die) But at ._at your W11llat will be let!ISI' when you paaa -y... Call Marly at 234-1873 aftiSI' 8:00  PIE IN THE FACE OF YOUR FAVORITE lYONS CHICK-FRIDAY OCT. 10,4:30 UNDER LYONS ARCH ON SALE IN DINING HALLS FRI, MON A TUES -$2 A PIE -SIGN UP NOW!!  2 GUYS NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR OCTOBER BREAK. WILLING TO LV FRI.OR SAT.. WILL MORE THAN SHARE EXPENSES.CALL X2573 OR X2158  Mind Your Own Bualnna Soclely For Entrepreneurahlp and New Venturn Oct. 8 Wed. 8:30 Chameleon nn. HCC.  
!..  

The Observer  Tuesday, October 7,  1986, -page 8  

The Observer Tuesday, October 7, 1986, -page 9 
Best start ever for Women'~ Golf Club 
Many clubs had to tangle with both opposing schools and rainy weather conditions across the Mid­west this weekend, but that was no problem for the Women's Golf Club. 
Off to its best season ever, the golfers participated yesterday in a tournament at Evansville, a city which had not seen rain all week. 
In matches prior to yesterday, Notre Dame placed third out of nine teams in its own Labor Day tourn­ament. came in second out of I 2 teams in the Loras College Invitational on September 19, and got an­other second-place finish in a five-team tournament the following weekend at Franklin College. 
'This is our best year so far," said Club President Laura Gleason. "This is our fourth or fifth year of existence, and we've never placed first or second in a tournament before this year... 
The club has managed to accomplish all this despite losing Saint Mary's freshman Amy Junius, the top player in the season-opening match, for the remainder of the year due to illnesses. Golfers pick­ing up the slack have included Gleason, Meghan Bar­rett. Carolyn Burke, Melissa Houk, Mary Huffman, ;md M.C. Malloy. 
Following the Evansville tournament. the golfers close the season this weekend with a tournament in Purdue. Gleason showed cautious optimism about their outlook for this match -their biggest of the year. 
"We usually don't come out as well in the standings because the competition's so good. I say we'll be in about the middle of the pack," said Gleason. "We usually don't beat the lower-level varsity teams like DePauw and Evansville, but I expect to beat them and end even give some of the schools like Purdue some competition... 
Notre Dame defeated DePauw and Evansville ear­lier in the season. 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

Evansville might not have seen much rain last week, but Milwaukee had buckets full, making the Rugby Club's match at Marquette on Saturday a low­scoring affair. 
Neil Garrison scored a try for the Irish, then added the two-point kick to provide all the Notre Dame points in a 6-4 victory. The B team fell to Marquette, 14-6, with Jack Regis scoring a try in a losing cause. 
"The conditions were really sloppy because it had been raining for about two weeks there, .. said Club President Quentin Williams. "We got good play from our special teams, and that helped a lot... 
With a 2-3 record, the club will take a week off from competition to hold its alumni game on Satur­day behind the Stepan Center. 
Also having to play in terrible conditions, the Wo­men's Soccer Club lost two games over the weekend to fall to 5-6. 
The Irish lost to Hope, 5-1, last Friday, and fell to Marquette, 3-1, on Sunday. Susan McConville got the only Notre Dame goal against Hope, and Kate Tit­terton scored on an assist from Kerry Haverkamp against Marquette. 
"Marquette was a really tough game. We played well, but they did too, .. said Club Secretary Susan Haling. "Friday we didn't get it together, and we weren't playing as well as usual. The weather made the fields really tough... 
Notre Dame next plays Saint Mary's in a home game tomorrow. The Irish will be trying to avenge a 2-1 overtime loss to the Belles on September I 2. 
Rain even forced the shortening ofevents in places as far as Ontario, but it did not keep the Rowing Club from coasting to another successful showing last weekend. 
Competing in the Head of the Trent at Peterboro, Ontario, the women's eight placed first. and three men's eights finished fifth, sixth, and tenth. 
Because it rained throughout the regatta, the course was shortened from two and a half miles to just over two miles. 
"Overall we did a lot better than last year," said Club President Joe Brunetti. "The women's finish was particularly impressive because there were a lot of tough Canadian teams out there. The women's pro­gram is really taking off this year." 
Rowers will next compete in the Alumni Row at the 
boathouse on Saturday from 8 a.m. till noon. 
After not playing last weekend, the Water Polo Club 
is looking forward to a tournament in Dayton, Ohio, 
next weekend. The four-team tournament will include 
Dayton, Miami (Ohio), Kenyon, and Notre Dame. 
"I think we can do really well," said Club President 
Dave Patchin. "We're in a lot better shape than we 
were in the first tournament... 
About 30 students are preparing to get their first 
taste of boxing experience in the Novice Bouts on 
the week before Fall Break. The Novice Bouts are a 
fall prelude to Notre Dame's traditional springtime 
charity Bengal Bouts. 
"It's just for anyone who wants to learn boxing techniques who has never boxed before, and if they want to go on to the Bengals, that's fine," said Boxing Club President Thomas Newell. 

Women's tennis falls to Michigan State in close match, 6-3 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
One service break and two points in the tiebreaker. That's how close the Notre Dame wo­men's tennis team came to beating Michigan State on Satur­day. Instead, the Irish fell to the Spartans 6-3, dropping thier overall season record to 0-3. 
It was the kind of loss where a coach just takes a deep breath and says, "tough match... Four of the six singles matches went to three sets. 
Freshman Stephanie Tolstedt registered the only Irish win in singles competition. Tolstedt defeated Marimar Alonso, 0-6, 6­2, 7-5. 


lll! Homemade soups, New Yort Style thlll, homemade !I!! f breads, fresh salads, belgian waffles, buttermilk { ( pancakes, gourmet lte cream, fountain delitaties, New}t Yort theesetalce, gourmet burgers, and of toone all f ( your fauorite deli meats and sandwithes. t 
ill! Join us for breakfast, lunch, and dinner_. ill 
:!li 100 Center, Mishawaka Party Trays AvailabtJ!! ) Mon-Fri 7 -8 256-0710 ~~~: }: Saturday 8 -9:30 ~~~: fsund~ 9-5 i 
ij: New York Deli &Cafe' Diaoount coupon···-·-····-~ 
:l! With this coupon, buy any salad plate and get a second i!!!l ) plate for 1/2 price. Bring a friend! { 
iii: This coupo.o ca.o.oot be used with a.oy other promotio.oal offer a.od ili! } only one coupon per table...Lhant you } 
:~::;:;::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:::=:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::iii! 
Alice Lohrer, Tammy Schmidt. and Resa Kelly were also involved in close three set matches. Loh­rer lost to Tracy Balagna, 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. Schmidt fell to Nancy Redman, 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 (10-8 tie­breaker), and Kelly was defeated by Sara Ramirez, 6-2, 6-7, 6-1. 
Head Coach Michele Gelfman was quick to point out that of the four matches that lasted three sets, the Irish dropped the opening set in three of those matches yet were able to main­tain their composure and force a third and deciding set. 
"We had problems in our opening sets but we made the necessary adjustments and per­formed really well," said Gelfman. "All the matches were close and a few points made the difference in us winning and losing." 
B.P. undefeated 
In the other singles matches, Michelle Dasso lost to Kathleen Monczka, 7-5, 6-3, and Natalie Illig came up short againstJoelle Lukasiewicz, 6-3, 6-2. 
The bright spot for the Irish had to be the play of the doubles teams, which took two of three 
matches.  
The  number- one  doubles  
team  of  Dasso  and  Tolstedt  
chalked  up  a  win  against  

Monczka and Balagna, 6-3, 6-2, raising their doubles record to 5-4. Playing at the number-three doubles position, Schmidt and Kelly defeated Lukasiewicz and Ramirez, 6-4, 6-2. 
Lohrer and Illig. the second­seeded doubles team lost to Red­man and Alonso, 6-0, 6-1. Gelfman attributes the lop-sided score to the flawless play of the MSU team. 
Everything (Redman and Alonso) did, worked," said Gelfman. "Every shot went their way. The score doesn't reflect how well Alice and Natalie played." 
The doubles teams continue to improve every week, and their hard work is definately paying off. 
"At Michigan State we were able to execute the things we've been emphasizing in practice," Gelfman said. 
The Irish don't have time to dwell on the loss. They travel today to Milwaukee to face North Star Conference opponent Mar­quette. The Irish are seeking their fourth consecutive NSC title, and today's match will have a direct bearing on the seedings for the NSC championship. 

P .E. holds off Farley, 20-14 
By KATHY BERRY Sports Writer 
Breen-Phillips is the only un­defeated team left in women's ln­terhall football arter Pasquerilla East downed Farley, 20-14, in the completion of their suspended game. 
Starting with 6:43 lert to play in the game, Farley scored on their first drive with a thirty-five yard touchdown pass from Marilu Almeida to Sue Shelton. The two-point conversion was successful, tying the game at 14. 
The Farley defense held P.E. on three downs. But on fourth down and fourteen, Colleen Don­nally connected with her favorite receiver, Annie Shrenk. for a thirty-five yard game-winning touchdown. Pasquerilla East failed to convert and the score stood at 20-14. 
ETHNIC MINORITY LAW NIGHT 
7:00 Law School Lounge Tuesday, October 7 
eLaw professors Crutchfield and Le will discuss the opportunities for minorities in the legal orofession 
eoean McLean will discuss law school admission criteria and financial aid 
eouestion & answer period involving students and a Notre Dame Law School Panel 
This is a continuing program designed to familiarize minority students with opportunities in the legal 
profession; Ethnic Minority Night is hostedf by the hosted by the Notre Dame Law School in cooperation with the NO/SMC Pre Law Society. 
Farley got the ball back but could not.produce anything. 
"We had a twenty game win­ning streak going. so I guess it was about time we got put in our place," said Marilu Almeida. " I think that this will make us even more psyched for our upcoming games." 
In last Thursday's action, Far­ley crushed Walsh, 29-0, B. P. defeated Lewis, 6-0, and Lyons won by forfeit over Badin. 
In the B P -Lewis game a con­troversial pass-interference call allowed B. P. to score the winning 
touchdown  in  the  last  20  
seconds.  
In  Sunday's  games,  Lyons  

edged Pasquerilla West 16-14, Lewis defeated Badin, 20-6, and 
P. E. downed Walsh, 20-0. 
The games to watch this Thursday include undefeated 
B. P. facing defending champion Farley and 3-I Lyons against P. E. So come out and watch some great football action. 




AL playoffs start tonight • Associated Press 
BOSTON -Roger Clemens, the most dominant pitcher in baseball this season, said his injured right elbow was "1 00 percent" ready yesterday as the Boston Red Sox prepared to meet the California Angels in Game 1 of the American League playoffs. 
Clemens, who was 3-0 against the Angels this year, ad­mitted his elbow that was hit by a line drive last week was still "sore to touch." 
But the right-hander, who led the AL with a ·24-4 record and 2.48 earned-run average, said he would be fine to start Tuesday night's playoff opener against Mike Witt. 
"My arm's 100 percent," Clemens said. When pressed for details about his recovery, he firmly replied, "I don't want to talk about my arm anymore." 
Witt was 18-10 this year and 1-2 against Boston. Overall, the Angels won the season series 7-5, with the teams splitting six games at Fenway Park. 
While Clemens' problems may have cleared up, another injury clouded the outlook for the start of the best-of-seven series. 
Reggie Jackson, the Angels' designated hitter, again was in the postseason spotlight, nursing a left hand injured when he hit a dugout wall Saturday night during a game at Texas. california Manager Gene Mauch said the incident occurred when Jackson got upset after making an out. 
X-rays on Jackson's hand were negative, and he took batting practice Monday. 
Two other Boston players who had been slowed by minor injuries, third baseman Wade Boggs and catcher Rich Ged­man, were expected to start Game 1. 
Boggs, the major leagues' batting champion at .357, did not play in Boston's final four games because of a right hamstring injury. 
Miami retains top spot; Alabama shrinks lead 

Associated Press 
The University of Miami remained No. I Monday in The Associated Press' college foot­ball poll but second-ranked Ala­bama made up ground on the Hurricanes while Stanford and Mississippi State cracked the Top Twenty for the first time in five years. 
Miami, which climbed into the No. I spot last week after beating Oklahoma, cruised past Nor­thern Illinois 34-0 on Saturday for its fifth consecutive victory. The Hurricanes received 55 of 58 first-place votes and L 155 of a possible 1,160 points from a nationwide panel of sports writ­ers and sportscasters. 

Alabama also raised its record to 5-0 by defeating Notre Dame 28-I 0. The Crimson Tide received two first-place votes and 1,084 points. Last week, also with 58 voters participating, Miami led 56-1 in first-place votes and 1. 156-L 058 in points. 
The first nine teams are the 
same as last week. Third-ranked 
Nebraska edged South Carolina 
27-24 and received 988 points 
while Michigan remained No. 4 
with 959 points after downing 
Wisconsin 34-17. 
The other first-place ballot 
went to fifth-ranked Penn State, 
which knocked off previously un­
beaten Rutgers 31-6 and ·received 937 points. 
Sixth-ranked Oklahoma 
rebounded from its loss to Miami 
by crushing Kansas State 56-I 0 
and received 867 points. Auburn 
stayed seventh with 828 points 
by blasting Western Carolina 55­
6, Arkansas held onto eighth 
place with 726 points by whip­
ping Texas Christian 34-17 and 
Southern California remained 
No. 9 with 709 points thanks to 
a 35-21 triumph over Oregon. 
Arizona was idle, however, and 
slipped from I Oth to I I th while 
Iowa moved up from I I th to 
I Oth. The Hawkeyes turned back 
Michigan State 24-21 and 
received 614 points. 

Miracle finish 
Flanner wins battle of towers 
By KEVIN MCCORMACK Sports Writer 
Behind a play that Flanner coach Jim Fitzgerald called "a miracle," Flanner defeated Grace, 6-0, highlighting the third week of lnterhall football in the Parseghian Division, the league's most hotly contested bracket. 
On the game's final play, Flan­ner set up for an apparent game­winning field goal. However, the snap was too high for holder Dave Kelly and he scrambled to pick up the ball and get it to any open receiver in the endzone. He threw it towards the vicinity of Pete Kazmierczak, who was being covered. The ball was tipped, Kazmierczak fell down, but the ball fell in his chest as did the victory for Flanner. 
While most of the game was a defensive struggle, Flanner made a run at scoring several times in the second half. Twice, drives were halted by stingy fourth-down defensive stands of Grace deep inside Grace terri-
Cheap 
continuedfrom page 12 
had rolled out of bounds, midfielder Rolfe Behrje was kicked in the knee by a Marquette player while on the ground. He is questionable for today's con­test with Akron with a contusion of the knee. 
Grace criticized the officiating, which he said was inconsistent and not in control of the game. 
In one situation, forward Pat Murphy was taken down from be­hind by a Warrior defender on a breakaway. The referee only gave the Irish a free kick, even though a yellow card usually is issued in such a situation. 
Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt also ended up on the short end of a referee's call. McCourt was tripped on the edge of the penalty area, but the ref­eree allowed play to continue. McCourt however, was caught retaliating and was issued a yel­low card. 
At first Grace thought that McCourt had dissented to the ref­eree. But when McCourt said he did not dissent, Grace entered the field while play was in prog­ress. 
"I wanted to know why (the ref­eree) had issued the yellow card," said Grace. 
In the rulebook, Grace's action 
is also a yellow-card offense, but 
the referee did nothing but to 
turn and give Grace an answer. 
"That just shows the lack of control he had in the game," said Grace. 
Grace was quick to point out, though, that the referee did not lose the game for the Irish. The Warriors controlled play much of the game. 
"The important point is that we were still in the game up til the end," noted Grace. "We launched an attack with 45 seconds left, and with a little luck, we could have tied it." 
Luck is currently running a little short for Notre Dame. Statistically they dominated the Wisconsin game on Friday, but the Badgers got the breaks and the 2-1 victory. 
"We're just in a rut right now," said Grace. "If we make a little mistake, the other team has capi­talized. We're in control of the game, but we haven't been able to put them away. 
"Ifwe would have had any luck, we would have won one of the three games." 
Today's game is the last for the Irish until they head east for a game against nationally­ranked Connecticut on Oct. 19. 
tory. Finally, after a key intercep­tion by Flanner with I :40 left in the game, Flarfner had one last opportunity. After several at­tempts to get the ball in the endzone, the clock ran down with six seconds remaining, setting the stage for the game's final dramatics. 
In other Parseghian games, Morrissey, behind freshman quarterback Joe Fuqua's one­yard touchdown run and five-yard pass to Joe Fiedler, shut out Keenan, 12-0. Dillon tied Off-Campus, 3-3. 
In Leahy division action, the anticipated matchup between undefeated Zahm and Stanford ended in a 14-0 Stanford victory. The option play was working to perfection for Stanford as they marched in for an early 7-0 lead. Then mistakes plagued the Zahmbies. 
On the ensuing kickoff, they fumbled on the five-yard line and three plays later the score was 14-0, Stanford, still in the first quarter. Inclement weather in the second half prohibited any offensive drves by both teams and when it was over, Zahm fell to 2-I while Stanford upped its record to 3-0. 
In other Leahy play, Holy Cross defeated Pangborn 6-0, while Cavanaugh put to rest any chances of Alumni defending its lnterhall title, by defeating the depleted Dogs, 3-0. 
Finally, in the Rockne division, Sarin continued its run for the lnterhall title by easily defeating St. Ed's, 14-0. The Screaming Ot­ters utilized their balanced attack of a timely passing game com­bined with the strong running of John Kennedy. 
In other Rockne play, Howard dumped Fisher 15-0, 

14th Annual 
Summer Programs 
Program
ND-Smc Students 

London  Rome  
May 20-June 14  June 14-July 13  
Travel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  

Scotland & France Germany & Switzerland 
Courses In art. buslneu. education. English. history. and Hollan 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: Oct.14, 7 p.m., at 232 Moreau, SMC Come visit with last year's students over pizza For more Info. contact Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 


'Tnste the :Aroma. of Romance..... 
Tue Special: All you con eat Sirloin Dinner Fondue Style Wed Special: All you con eat Seafood D1nner Fondue Style Thr Special: All you con eat Chicken Dinner Fondue Style 
liry our Chef's featured entrees Friday and Saturday evenings 
~ Discount Coupon-~ 
This coupon entttles you lo tour dollars off lhe total pnce 
ol your dtnner ltcket when ordenng two dtnners 
Th1s coupon cannot be used wlh any olher promolonal oHe< end 
only one coupon per loble lhonk you 
..._._TheFondue Parlor~ 
100 Center Old Brewery Butlding 255-1526 Mishawaka Tue-Thr 5-9 Reservations Suggested Fri & Sot 5-1 0 

~~---------~---­


']I['t(Jt~.al~--------------------------------------------------T-ue•s•d•ay•,•O•c•to.be•r•7•,•1•98•6•,•-•pa•g•e•l-l
Bloom County 
A 61155ei.IJPC SOUW5 VC!Ol/6 • HM ANY P!?OTCCT!fJN 1' 
PIII?T /JI/55£T HOf/NP..• PIIKT 
~lOPe. 
i.EKY 1?111?€. 
/ 

Beernuts 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
~ 5H~5 liRe /JY ''!?6£80K ~ .. 1He I!A9/flJN, /JY •tiJ(jf5VItLE. 
5(..l(;(£{(~ .. 71£ f?/fiH!tJN5 IJY 
''8fWI/Nil f8'r/f!l/C THANK YOf/ /K.L 50 MICH. I 
Mark Williams 



Campus 
9:00-I 0 a.m.: Jesus Seminar; Center for Con­tinuing Education auditorium 
10:30 a.m. -12 p.m.: Jesus Seminar; CCE 
auditorium 12 -4 p.m.: Arts & Letters Career Day for all -.eniors, juniors and sophomores; CCE 
3:30 
-5 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, R:base 5000, part I; I 08 Computing Center, limit 7. To register, call Betty at 239-5604. Free and open to the public 

3:30 
p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar: "Plasma Deposition and Etching in Microelectronic Device Manufacture," by Prof. Dennis Hess, University of California, Berkeley; 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 


4 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Lecture, "Develop­
ment Policies in Northeast Brazi," by Prof. Dor­
ceu Passoa, director, Economic Studies Divi­
sion of Social Science Research, Fundacoa 
Joaguim Nabuco; 122 Hayes-Healy 
4 p.m.: Cushwa Center's American Catholic 
Studies Seminar: Prof. Robert Kress, Dept. of 
Religious Studies, University of San Diego; 
Memorial Library Lounge 
Focus 

The Daily Crossword 


4:30 p.m.: Biological sciences seminar: Prof. Jeffrey Bennetzen, Purdue University; Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
7 p.m.: SMC History Department Lecture, "Ireland, America, and the Famine," by Prof. Vincent Comerford, St. Patrick's, Maynooth, Ireland; Little Theatre 7 p.m.: Spanish Club Get-together; CSC 
7:30 
p.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Opening Tea to welcome newcomers; Notre Dame Libary Penthouse 

7:30 
p.m.: SMC Philosophy Department and Justice Education Lecture, "Is There Just Punishment?", by Prof. Jeffrie Murphy, Arizona State University; Carroll Auditorium 


7:30p.m.: Kellogg Institute, Depts. of Anthro­pology and Communication and Theatre Latin American Film Series; Annenberg Auditorium 
8 p.m.: Informational meeting, all those in­terested in joining the newly formed Dallasft. Worth Club; Pasquerilla East's Chapel Lounge. For information call Erica at 4419 

ACROSS 1 Attic 5 Paddy plant 9 Marsh bird 
13 Dear mel 14 Caspian feeder 15 Shoulder 
gesture 16 Started 18 Hoist 19 Gloaming 20 Volcano's peak 21 Incarcerated 22 Go over a 
story 24 Make points 26 Catches 
forty winks 28 Tool chest 
item 32 Stood firm 36 Cycle 

beginner 37 Verse forms 38 So-so grade 39 Discontinue 40 -soup (fog) 41 Forbidden 
All Rights Reserved

45 Raging fire 47 Scotch and ­48 Paris subway 8 Sprite 50 Pandemonium 9 Strident yell 54 "Mood-" 10 Unwritten 57 Leyte's 11 Old Norse 
neighbor poem 59 A Wallach 12 Ancient 60 N. Oak. city 15 Few and far 61 Tussle between 63 Garnish 17 Striking 64 Undo effect 65 Strong -ox 21 Collins of 66 Record "Dynasty" 67 Bows 23 Some grldmen 68 Eng. river 25 Kansas City 
team DOWN 27 Segment 1 Magic Johnson 29 Astound 
for one 30 Dry 2 Popeye's Oyl 31 Jokers 3 Aspect 32 Pueblo dweller 4 Disapprover's 33 Paradise 
sound 34 Page 5 Red-nosed 35 Buscaglia reindeer 39 Campus spot 6-out 41 Beaver state (untangle) 42 "-us a child 7 Bistros is born" 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
MIMEDITSAR ISAAR 
ENOLA ELLIE TRIIO WOULD REAP AIDA E N T • A R M W:R E T L IE R
...,.,,,_
-pAST FE L DISIP A R IIDIOM .ROE
F E E S P A R E D B I N S AEC.ORAT COVET T lB E A T I S E S 0 D A­
IIIIIIT I S T R E T C H FOOT OILDI R.ERA 0 R N E 
N 0 0 N A H E A D 
u s 
E S L 0 
S T 
10/1/86 

43 Spools 54 "-first you 
44 Music hall don't..•" 46 Refugee 55 Nothing: Sp. 49 Take place 56 Fall 51 New -on life 58 Newsman 52 Single-celled Sevareid 
plants 61 Madrid Mrs. 53 Appearances 62'Tatami for one 

.....-THINGS S.A.B. HATES: ---------THINGSS.A.B. LIKES: -...-Ill! 
apartheid rainy days & Mondays empty concerts dining hall goulash 
O.C. crime Miami ofFlorida exams worms on the sidewalk workmen that sit on the steps South Bend police & their dogs tofu parietals ethanol injustice tailgaters havingfun happy students winning teams Lou Holtz walks around the lakes birthdays PB&J lots ofevents Collegiate Jazz Festival working hard Adele, Joni, Ceil & Amy Chinese food Switek & Montanaro the new LaFortune 


r---------~------~--------------------------~----------------------------------­
Baseball playoffs encourage 'hot-dog' antics 
S~orts 

ND soccer faces Akron after bruising road trip 
By PETE SKIKO and PETE mean that. Despite the recent GEGEN close losses we've had, I feel that Sports Writers the team has played well enough to win all of them with a break 
After coming off of three road or two. They (Akron) beat us losses to .Bowling Green, badly last year, and I think the Wisconsin-Madison and Mar­guys really want this one." quette, the Notre Dame soccer The team had a break from 
team could probably use a rela­practice yesterday as it nursed tively easy home opponent to the bruises suffered in the Mar­regroup against in their next quette contest. game. On Sunday Grace was fuming 
Unfortunately the Irish will not 

about his team's 2-I loss to Mar­get a break as the Akron Zips 
quette. But he was not directing invade Alumni Field today at 3 his displeasure against his 
p.m. players. 

The Zips are fresh off of a vic­Instead he was upset with the tory over perennial ·power In­officiating and the cheap shots diana, whom they hadn't beaten taken by Marquette players in the since 1974. The Irish have yet to soccer game. 
beat Akron in five tries, and last "Marquette is a hell of a team," year took a 8-I drubbing in Ak­said Grace. "They're very good, ron. but they're very cheap, and that 
Irish head coach Dennis Grace bothers me. realizes his squad has no easy "The would charge from be­task ahead, but is looking for­hind, take our players· legs out ward to the contest. from behind. It was very sad." 
"Akron is tough," said Grace, The rough play resulted in one "but I'm convinced that when we injury for the Irish. After the ball play well, we can play with any team in the country, and I really see CHEAP, page 10 

Sophomore Dave Reiter, shown above, combined with soph· omore Tim Carr for a 9-0 record in this weekend's Irish Fall Invitational. 
The 

Wingback Marvin Lett moves past a DePaul defender in a game earlier this season. Pete Skiko and Pete Gegen preview the team's 
Irish tennis takes home invitational despite bad weather, W. Michigan 
By GREG ANDRES  Kalibas split in the two prosets  proved to be tougher competi­ 
Sports Writer  he played, needing the maxi­ tion. He rebounded from down  
mium 16 games to win, 9-7, over  a set to post a 3-6, 6-4, 6-0 win.  
The Notre Dame men's tennis  Evansville, while dropping an 8-6  This win was important to  
team survived a weekend -of  decision to Western Michigan.  Rieter because it was this type of  
sruprises to capture its third con­ "It is really tough to play," said  match which he feels he would  
secutive Irish Fall Invitational.  Kalibas of the prosets. "When  have lost last year.  
Rain caused the tournament to  you get down it is really hard to  "The team win was a good vic­ 
be moved indoors to the South  come back...  tory in a tournament with good  
Bend Racquet Club where  Sophomores Dave Reiter and  teams, .. Rieter also noted. "We  
matches were shorten from the  Tim Carr, playing third and  played really well against Oral  
standard two out of three sets to  fourth singles for the Irish,  Roberts and will get another  
eight game prosets.  respectively, compiled a com­ change against Western Mic­ 
The Irish won their opening  bined record of 9-0 over the  higan later in the season."  
match against Evansville, 6-3,  weekend. Each won their three  Freshman Mike Wallace and  
but were defeated by Western  singles matches, while  junior Dan Walsh contributed at  
Michigan 5-4. In the end it was  colaborating on 3 doubles  fifth and sixth singles. Wallace,  
a 7-2 win over Oral Roberts that  vicotries.  in the sixth position against  
won it for Notre Dame.  Carr, whose shoulder has  Evansville, won conviningly, 8-2,  
Number-one singles player  restricted his practice time.  and split at the fifth position, win­ 
Brian Kalibas clinched the tourn­ showed no signs of any weak­ ning in straight sets against Oral  
ament with a 6-1. 3-6, 7-6 (9-7)  ness in his play. Carr cruised to  Roberts while losing. 9-7, to  
win over Wayne Stewart of Oral  an 8-5 victory over Evansville and  Western Michigan. Walsh, who  
Roberts. In the match, Kalibas  an 8-2 win over Western Mic­ stepped in after Paul Daggs  
erased two match points in the  higan, and truimphed in straight  pulled a muscle in his opening  
tie breaker to capture the victory.  sets over Oral Roberts 6-4, 6-0.  match, won both of his singles  
"This type of match was typical  Reiter won convincingly over  matches.  
of Brain," said Head Coach Tom  Evansville and Western MiC­ In doubles action, the Irish  
Fallon. "He hung in there and  higan, spotting his opponents  won 5 of the 9 matches. Sopho­ 
gutted it out. He knows what to  only three games. Reiter's op­ 
do to win."  ponent on Sunday, however,  see IRISH, page 8  

only home game this month in their story at left. 
Are you serious? You mean the baseball playoffs really start today? 
I guess I've been so caught up in trying to figure out when (or if) Notre Dame is ever going to win another big football game, that I completely forgot that the World Series is coming up soon. 
So let's talk baseball. 
On second thought. let me tell you a story about baseball, with my apologies for leaving Houston and California out of the tale because they probably don't have a chance anyway, and because I didn't see them play this past summer. 
I did, however, have the good fortune (or bad for­tune in one case) of getting out to Boston's Fenway Park and New York's Shea Stadium over the summer for a couple of ballgames. Each was only four hours from the Upstate New York city I worked in, and, as Harry Caray might say, you can't beat fun at the old ballpark. 
Harry Caray couldn't have meant Shea Stadium. 
New York was first. The first-place Mets were playing my favorite team (yes, I admit to being a Cub fan) and my friend and I had what we thought were good seats -yeah, right. 
I had never been to the City and I must admit that I despised the obnoxious Mets even before I stepped out of the car and onto a rain-drenched parking lot. My friend and I were greeted by about 30-40 ticket scalpers and a few winos just outside the stadium ­a large, dirty, semicircular structure, in which any seat above the mezzanine level gives you a good 

shot at flagging down the airplanes which fly over­head every five minutes. 
If you haven't seen the Mets this season (four of them ~ven have mugshots in United States post of­fices for messin~ with a police officer in a Houston 

Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
bar), then you've missed perhaps the most class-less team organized sport has ever seen. 
Just take a look at the hot-dog antics ofGary Carter as he taunts opposing pitchers while rounding the bases, or the way Len Dykstra snaps his glove at pop-ups·. Or how about the hot-tempered Jesse Orosco storming off the field when pulled from a game by that gentleman ofgentlemen, skipper Davey Johnson. 
With the score tied in the bottom of the eighth, Johnson sent in Tim Teufel (jailbird no. I) to pinch hit. Teufel had blasted an extra-inning grand slam three days earlier, but walked back to the dugout to a chorus of boo's this time after flying out to end the inning. Talk about spoiled fans. 
Then Keith Moreland homered to win it for the Cubbies, and I was pelted in the back of the head with assorted food Items for simply standing up and cheering. Needless to say, we left town quickly. don't plan on returning soon. 
I thought Boston might be even worse. I can't say I have ever disliked the Red Sox, but if Sox fans were anything like Celtic fans, I figured we'd be in for a long day. 
Especially since I was rooting for the Chicago White Sox. 
Much to my surprise, however, I was ove!Whelmed with the atmosphere of Fenway Park. I thought Wrigley Field was the next-best thing to Heaven, but now I'm not so sure. People were actually friendly, and the fans gave Red Sox' pitcher Dennis 'Oil Can' Boyd a standing ovation in his first game since walking out on the team a few games earlier. 
Mets fans would have run him out of town. 
The White Sox won the game, and I even left with a clean shirt on my back. I stuck around for a few minutes afte!Wards to soak up the tradition of Fen­way, and to say 'good-bye' to the friends I had made in the surrounding seats. 
Now, it's playoff time, and the two teams I saw this summer are the favorites to do battle in the World Series. 
To Houston and California: Good luck, you'll need it. To Boston: Do us all a favor and humiliate the Mets in four straight. 
And to the New York Mets: Watch out for one angry Notre Dame student above your dugout. armed with a sloppy hot dog. the next time you set foot on Wrigley Field grass. 









