/ 
/ 


VOL. XX, NO. ·121 TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
U.S. strike against Libya studied by Reagan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. -Presi­dent Reagan was reportedly study­ing yesterday the possibility of a military strike against Libya, ac­cording to the U.S. envoy and am­bassador to West Germany. 
The ambassador's statement came as the United States compiled evidence that the renegade Arab republic was involved in the fatal bombing of a West Berlin disco. 
Ambassador Richard Burt, the 
U.S. envoy to West Germany, said there were ''very clear indications that there was Libyan involvement" in the nightclub bombing that kill­ed and American Army sergeant 
and a Turkish woman.  
When  asked  whether  Reagan  
favored  a  military  move  against  
Khadafy,  Burt  said  that  he  was  

"studying this issue right now." 
One U.S. diplomat in the divided city, speakin on condition he not be identified, said: "The Libyan angle is being explored very vigorously. Khadafy is an active suspect." 
On his return from a California vacation Sunday, Reagan refused comment when reporters asked him whether he planned to strike at the Libyan leader. He ignored ques­tions yesterday as he left the White House to watch the start of the Baltimore Orioles' season-opening baseball game against the Cleveland Indians. 
At the White House, spokesman Edward Djerejian said the ad­ministration would "have to reserve final judgment on exactly who was responsible until we make further progress on the investigations." 
But he said the weekend explo­sion in West Berlin and the bomb­ing last week of a TWA jetliner over Greece followed the "pattern of indiscriminate violence which we have traced to the types of terrorist activities that Col. (Moammar) 
see LIBV A, page 3 

Bush finds no 'common solution' on stabilizing volatile oil market 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Vice Presi­dent George Bush said Monday the United States and Saudi Arabia found no "common solution" on stabilizing the volatile oil market during three days of talks. 
He also said the two countries disagree about what oil price level is desirable. From the Saudi stand­point, "the stronger the price for in­ternational oil the better . . . That does not coincide with the best in­terest of the United States," Bush told a news conference in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. 
He said, however, it is not the role of the United States "to dictate to countries around the world what the price of oil should be." 
The vice president later flew to 

Bahrain on the second leg of a Mid­dle East visit that includes Oman ,and North Yemen. He was greeted by Sheikh lsa bin Salman ai­
Khalifa, the ruler of this cluster of 
islands in the Persian Gulf. 
Bush discussed security and 
economic issues into the early mor­
ning· yesterday with Saudi King 
Fahd at his summer palace in 
Dhahran. 
The vice president then ended his 
visit to the gulf city with a trip to a 
Saudi air force base to watch exer­
cises involving U.S.-made F-15 and 
F-5 fighter bombers and a British­
made Tornade warplane. Dhahran 
is a front line of air defense against 
possible attack by Iran, which has 
been fighting Iraq for 55 years on 
the other side of the Persian Gulf. 
Discussing the different U.S. and Saudi viewpoints on oil prices, Bush said, "The best way to sort it out is (the) market. So we have not gone in there to fix prices or discuss levels of pricing. 
"I was not sent here on a price­fixing mission." 
Asked if there was any common ground for stabilizing the sharply fluctuating market, Bush said, "Not really. I hope there's a better understanding on their part.... Certainly there wasn't any common solution found." 
Oil is a major topic of Bush's trip. Last week, he said national 
security  interests  would  be  
threatened  by  low  prices  that  
weakened  U.S.  producers  and  
energy financiers.  


The Observer/Paul PVIoresli:y 
Sophomore Rodney Choe finds yesterday's spring weather i(ieal for playing Frisbee on the North Quad. Warm temperatures have tempted students to partake in many outdoor sporting activities in the past weekbut Mother Nature may beckon students back into the library today. 
Survey results indicate ND faculty openness to divestment option 
By BETH CORNWELL 
Staff Reporter 
A majority of Notre Dame facul­ty responding to a survey by a Faculty Senate committee agreed that the University should divest from South Africa now, or at a specified date in the near future if certain conditions are not satisfied. 
A report detailing the survey's results will be discussed at the Faculty Senate meeting tomorrow night. 
Ninety-six respondents (34.2 per­cent) advocated immediate divestiture, while another 79 (28.1 percent) suggested setting a date in the future after which Notre Dame will divest unless South Africa has legally committed itself to both en­ding apartheid and enfranchising all South Africans, according to the report. 
"However, the results of the poll must be used with some care, because many faculty remained silent," said the report's introduc­tion. 
"One may regard the results as supportive but not conclusive evidence of a majority opinion on the issues discussed... In certain areas, one must say, that ev idence 
seems  substantial,"  the  introduc­ 
tion said.  
Approximately  930  faculty  

members received the survey, ac­cording to Frank Connolly, author of the report and chairman of the Faculty Senate Committee on South African Investments. 
Out of the 281 responded, 209 
(74.4 percent) agreed that it was the responsibility of the senate to discuss the issue of South African investments with the Board of Trustess, said Connolly, whose committee conducted the survey. 
Forty-eight respondents (17.1 percent) agreed with the policy of continued constructive engagement announced by the Board of Trustees in 1985, said Connolly. 
Twenty-two percent said the senate should not discuss South African investments in the first place, the report said. 
Forty-two (14.9 percent) favored the current University investment policy, but in conjunction with a reconsideration of that policy when the Sullivan Principles expire in May 1987. 
The survey indicates that a heavy majority of the Notre Dame faculty is primarily concerned with the moral implications of the Universi­ty policy, while they are split. over their concern about the financial impact of that policy on the University endowment, said Con­nolly. 
In January it was proposed that the committee bring to the senate a motion on divestment, according to the report. Some senators then voiced concern that this motion might not represent the opinion of the faculty, the report continues. The survey was decided upon to aid in the motion. 
see FACULTY, page 4 

Nine to be recipients of honorary degrees 
Spedal to The Observer 
Notre Dame has selected nine others to receive honorary degrees at this year's commencement, in ad­dition to Bishop James Malone, the speaker at the May 18 exercises. 
Malone, the president of the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Bishops, was announced as an honorary degree recipient and com­mencement speaker last week. 
Joining Malone as degree reci­pients are: Gertrude E.M. Anscombe, pro­fessor of philosophy at Cambridge 
· University, best known for her work in moral philosophy, philosophical psychology and metaphysics. Author and editor of many scholarly books and articles about the German philosopher Wit­tgenstein, under whom she once studied, Anscombe has also written and lectured on ethical problems. 
Neal Amundson, Cullen Pro­fessor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Houston, known for his pioneering work in the ap­plication of advanced mathematics to chemical engineering problems. Author of more than I 50 technical articles and several books, he was 
U.S. editor of Chemical Engineer­ing Science from 1955 to 1972. 
Lewis Branscomb, vice president and chief scientist of International Business Machines (IBM) Corpora­tion, whose research specialties are the temperature of stars and the physics of negatively charged atoms. Before joining IBM, Branscomb did two decades of research at the National Bureau of Standards, applying his discoveries about atomic and molecular negative ions to plasma physics, chemistry, the study of the upper atmosphere and astrophysics. He is also current president of Sigma Xi, the scientific research society. 
Eleanor Burbidge, director of the Center for Astrophysics and Space Science at the University of California, San Diego. Burbidge, who has served as president of the American Astronomical Society and director of the Royal Green­wich Observatory, was one of the earliest investigators of quasars. 
Henry Knott Sr., chairman of the board of the Arundel Corpora­tion in Baltimore. A contractor and land developer, Knott oversees a firm which employs a thousand people. His extensive philanthropic 
see DEGREES, page 4 


--.--­

The Observer Tuesday, April 8, 1986 -page 2 
Coed dorms in programs abroad should be tested at home as well 
Of Interest 
The National Peace Quiltea quitt made by women across the United States, is on display at the Center for Social Con­cerns this week for Peace with Justice Week. The goal of the Peace Quilt project is that all 100 U.S. senators sleep underneath the quilt. Currently, 57 senators have written their reflections about peace in a journal which accompanies the quilt. The Center is open from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. this week. -The Observer 
"Testimony of Torture in South Africa" w~ll be presented tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. A dtscus­sion will follow the 20-minute movie sponsored by Amnesty Inter­national. -The Observer 
Senior Advisory Council applications for next year are now available at the cl~ss ~ffices and the Student A~­tivities office in LaFortune. Apphcauons are due Monday, Apnl 
21. Any interested  juniors  are  encouraged  to  apply.  - The  
Observer  
An Entrepreneur Society meeting will  be h:ld  

tonight at 7 in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy Center. All students m­terested iil involvement for the 1986-87 school year should attend. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, under direction of Nancy Menk, assistant professor of music, will pre­sent a concert of 19th and 20th-century music for women's voices tomorrow night at 8 in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. The performance is part of the College's inaugural Fine Arts Festival. -The Observer 
"The Future of Medicine" will be the topic of a lecture tonight at 6:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Doc­tor Harry Weil, from the University of Southern California School of Medicine and the University of Health Sciences at the Chicago Medical School, will speak in the lecture sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre-Professional Society-The Observer 
"A Capetown Parish: The Struggle Against Apar­theid" is the topic tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. Speaking will be Basil Van Rensburg,, a priest of the Capetown diocese and an opponent of apartheid. -The Observer 
A New York City Homeless Coalition member, Robert Hayes, will speak tomorrow on the condition and em­powerment of the homeless at noon in Room 101 in the Law School. -The Observer 
The Pre-Law Society of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will conduct its spring general meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. The meeting is mandatory for members who are juniors. Information and packets necessary for law school applications will be distributed. Underclassmen are welcome. -The Observer 
Weather 

A strange white substance may strike tonight, scientists say. Variable cloudiness to­day with highs from 50 to 55. But mostly cloudy tonight with a chance of sprinkles or flurries and lows near 35. A 30 percent chance of light rain or snow showers tomorrow with highs near 40. -AP 





The Observer is continuina to ex­perience typesettina 4ifficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
The Observer ( l'SPS ~99 l·-t()()() 1is published :0.1onday throu~ l'riuar cxn·pt durin~( exoun <~nd vacation period~. The Observer i~ published by the Mudents of the l·niversit} of Notre Oame and Saint Mary's Colle~e Suhscription~ may he pur<:ha~d for $~0 per yt=ar ( Jlll per scm~st~r) b~· writin~ lb~ Observer, P 0 Box<). ~utn· Dam<". Indiana 
-46'1'16. 

The Observer is a memtx-r of The Assoclat~d Press. All reproduction fll(ht~ art" rcsr"·cd 
.-.. 

Focus On vn11 America's YOUFut HELP 

SAVE BABIES 

"Hey, did you hear? Even the showers are co-ed" 
My fellow American dormmates were as surprised as I about the living situation in which the Notre . Dame Innsbruck program had placed us. 
We lived in an apartment set aside for Austrian students, although foreign students lived there as well. We shared floor and kitchen space with both men and women. We used the same bathorrom facilites, in­cluding the showers. 
Our dormitory had no hall rector, no resident assistants, no hall monitors of any kind. The hall staff consisted of a woman who lived in the basement, ac­ting as little more than the head cleaning lady. 
Our program director coordinated academics and organized trips, meetings and other important pro­gram activities. He very rarely interfered with our per­sonal lives, meddled in our travel plans or regulated our social affairs. 
This is going to be a long shot from campus living, I thought, as soon as I moved into the coed apartment. Total freedom. No supervision. Coed showers. I wondered how life would be without overwhelming rules anc;i how we could save ourselves from our now­released, immoral and irresponsible inner souls. 
But the situation really worked well. And we didn't break any records for immorality, either. Without the rules that tried to force us to be mature and responsi­ble adults, we were free to be mature and responsible adults .. 
In addition to the moral decisions left entirely to us were also the little "freedoms" that accompany living on one's own. Male students had to do their own laun­dry. The convenience of the dining halls was not available to us: we were on food budgets and had to shop wisely to stay fed. 
Finally, several headaches accompanied what was one of the most essential and enjoyable aspects of the year: travel. Visas, train passes, housing, language barriers and other concerns were all part of the preparation required to make a trip safe and suc­cessful. We went where we wished and learned to take care of ourselves even in edgy situations. 
Yet travel was so satisfying because it was an experi­ment in independence. When the experiment worked, it was a personal success. When it didn't work, it became a personal lesson. 
Of course, it would be impossible to re-shoot this entire scene on campus. The differences between American and European societies cause several of the inconsistencies between study abroad and at Notre Dame. Without the freedom of the year abroad, many of the year's experiences would be stifled. 

The coed dorms in Innsbruck, London, Israel, and Tianjin represent only the tip of the iceberg. Foreign study is simply different from what happens here at home. 
there are obvious reasons why the administration downplays the inconsistencies foreign study programs demonstrate in following du Lac. The main reason is that the experiments in the abroad programs work. If they were unsuccessful, the University would eliminate them. 
Not all these experiences can be offered by life in Notre Dame, Ind., the United States of America. 
But why not coed dorms? · 
Most students who return from study abroad will agree they developed healthy relationships with.both sexes during the year. Often this was enhanced by liv­ing in mixed dorms. 
If the .l.Jniversity admits that coed dorms work with student's abroad, that they are part of a successful ex­periment, that they promote responsible and mature adult men and women, why can't this experiment be attempted under the shadow of the Golden Dome? 
As many students choose to go abroad, many might also opt to live in a coed environment. The University should learn to put its successful ideas into practice at home as well as abroad. 
---·· 
The Observer Tuesday, April 8, 1986 -page 3 

Cordobes" Benitez was fighting. The incident oc­curred during a benefit bullfight in Madrid Satur­day. 
Nicaraguan opposition newspapers find censorship a common practice 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -For editor Jaime Chamorro and his op­postion newspaper, La Prensa, cen­sorship is a way of life. 
On one recent day, for instance, the government forbade Chamorro from publishing 18 stories he had planned. It also ordered him to discard four photographs and change the headlines and delete specific paragraphs from four other stories. Not a single page escaped unscathed. 
Articles killed by the censor that day included one about Miskito In­dians of the Caribbean coast com­plaining that the Sandinista military had bombarded their villages. Another was about a pastoral letter from Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, one of the harshest critics of the leftist regime. 

That day, too, the censor killed an article about Managua taxi drivers complaining about the need for increased fares and the critical lack of spare parts for their vehicles. 
Still, in his own way, Chamorro has the final say. Censored articles are tacked outside the office on an old bulleting board for passerbys to see. In the middle of the board is a faded card that reads: "The freedom ofthe press is the right of choice in what they read in the daily newspapers. There is the Sandinista-controlled Barricada, the pro-government Nuevo Diario and the heavily censored La Pren­sa. 
the  people,  not  a  gift  of  their  
government."  
Nicaraguans  have  a  limited  

"We are not against social change. We are against the system of today... we want changes with freedoms and democracy and not a totalitarian system like this one," Chamorro said in explaining why he continues to publish the 60-year­old newspaper in the face of cen­sorship. 
Most days, Chamorro makes the ordered changes and the afternoon newspaper is published, although often it does not reach the streets until after dark. 

Contras undergoing shakeup in leadership 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON D.C. -The chief U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebel group, concerned about charges of mismanagement, is engaged in a behind-the-scenes reorganization that has put a Miami-based exiled businessman in charge Of coodinating financial and political operations. 
But Nicaraguans close to the United Nicaraguan Opposition (UNO) say the shakeup has been kept quiet for fear it could jeopar­dize President Reagan's $100 million aid request by acknowledg­ing existing problems in handling earlier U.S. assistance. 
The Democratic-controlled House is scheduled to reconsider Reagan's proposal for military and other aid on April 15, after defeating it last month. Reagan's 
proposal  narrowly  cleared  the  
Republican-dominated  Senate  on  
March 27.  
Leonardo  Somarriba,  an  

Amercan-educated businessman who runs a printing company in Miami, was named UNO's secretary-general last month, although the appointment has not been publicly announced. He is prepared plans for an overhaul of the rebel group's internal opera­tions. 
In a recent interview with the 
Libya 
continuedfrom page 1 
Khadafy  has  sponsored  in  the  
past."  
Burt,  however,  indicated  the  

United States had intelligence in­formation before the Berlin bomb­ing that the Libyan embassy in East Berlin was planning a terrorist at­tack. 
Djerejian said one action the United States is seeking, following the two recent terrorist incidents in­volving Americans, is ''the possible closing of more Libyan Peoples' Bureaus known to be the source of terrorist planning and activity." 
Although the European allies have declined in the past to go along with U.S. attempts to coor-Associated Press, Somarriba ac­cepted the characterization of his new role as UNO's "chief executive officer" and said he would try to "establish a structure so the three members (of UNO's directorate) can work together." 
". . . I personally have no political ambitions," he said. 
Somarriba's appointment represents an apparent shift in power away from the umbrella group's three publicly known direc­tors: Adolfo Calero, who also heads the chief rebel army, the CIA-organized Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN), and two former Sandinista officials, Arturo Cruz and Alfonso Robelo. 
The appointment follows moun­ting complaints from Nicaraguan exiles that the UNO -created at White House urging last June ­had failed to acheive either political or military unity in the war against Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government. The exiles also have criticized the UNO for nepotism and its handling of U.S. funds. 
The Nicaraguan Busines Coun­cil, a group of exiled business leader who have worked with the UNO, outlined the complaints in a heated, private meeting with the three UNO directors in Miami on Jan. 18, according to several par­ticipants who spoke on condition of ananymity. 
dinate the economic and diplomatic isolation of Khadafy, Djerejian said the latest terrorist incidents, "both on European soil, have sen­sitized the Europeans to the danger, that the danger is really at their doorstep, not only at our doorstep." 
Djerejian said that in its various diplomatic communications, the United States is stressing that "it's imperative for the civilized com­
munity  to  work  together  much  
more  effectively  t han  ever  in the  
past."  

Djerejian also said Reagan would express his condolences yesterday to the family of Army Sgt. Kenneth T. Ford of Detroit, the American killed in the bombing of the disco frequented by American servicemen stationed in East Berlin. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
SPRING MEETING 
Mandatory for All Juniors 
Information and Packecs necessary.for applyi to Law School will be distributed 
Tuesday April 8 7:30p.m. Engineering Aud. 
Come hear lhl' fint>st Pre-Law Advisnr in thP U.S. SJWok 
EVERYONE WELCOME 

SENIORS!SENIORS 
SENIORS! 
Moving to· a new city? Need a new roommate? 
STOP BY CAREER & PlACEMENT SERVICES OR CALL 239-52001 


----------~~----------------~ 
The Observer 

Tuesday, April 8, 1986 -page 4 

Demonstrators at Malacanang palace in Manila yesterday yell their slogans in prott~st to the visit of 
physical sciences. 
Patricia Wald, circuit judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Wald, a graduate of the Connec­ticut College for Women and the Yale Law School, has held her pre­sent position since 1979. She has published extensively in the areas of criminal justice, juvenile law, mental disability law, poverty law, and administrative law. 
Also, Dr. Thomas Carney and his wife, Mary Elizabeth, will receive the 1986 Laetare Medal at commencement. Carney is presi­dent of the Metatech Corporation in Northbrook, Illinois, and is chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
Purdue won't divest, despite student protests 
Degrees 
continuedfrom page I 

support of Catholic education has included Notre Dame. 
Dr. James Muller, cardiologist at Harvard Medical School and co­founder of the International Physi­cians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. A 1965 graduate of Notre Dame, Muller was one of the physi­cians who established the 145,000­member international medical association which was awarded the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize. 
John Phelan Jr., president of the New York Stock Exchange since 1980. Phelan arrived on Wall Street in 1947 as a 16-year-old runner for his father's brokerage firm. He left the firm to earn a business degree from Adelphi University and to spend three years in the U.S. Marines. In the early '60s, he returned to Wall Street and pioneered in the computerization of brokerage commission bills and profit and loss statements. 
Sir George Porter, Fullerian Pro­fessor of Chemistry and president of the Royal Society of Great Bri­tain. Well known for his research in photochemistry, photosynthesis, laser pulse technique and solar energy, Porter, who shared the 1967 Nobel Prize for chemistry, has written many popular texts on the 


GUN SHOW MODERN 8t antique guns 8t knives 
attheACC 
April19&20 
admission $2.00 

ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS Center for Teaching Non-Violence is seeking full-time stafl. LodJing. U 50/mo., &: health coverage. One year commitment with $2000 separation stipend. Public interest research and publishing on aggres­
sion,  developing  courses  on  non­ 
violence  and  operating  National  
Coalition  on  Television  Violence  

(TV, ftlms, war toys, sports, etc.~ Next to University of Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. Resume to Thomas Radecki, M.D., Box 21 57 Champaian IL 61820. 
Located only 5 minutes from Notre Dame. featuring all the luxuries in modern living. 
t wao,her dryer in rnost t dishwasher 
+ private halcony or patio 
+swimming pool t garage'> availahlc 
1671-A N. Kivcro,idc Dr. South Bend, IN 4h£i lh 233·2212 
Summer Fall Spring 
WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD su,~:SER 
Full Academic Years In 
• 
Oxford University 

• 
L.S.E. 


• 
St. Andrews, Scotland 


U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions 0 irector CQEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St., NY,NY, 10024. 
(212·724·0804/724·0138). 
(EO/AA) 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Investments in companies doing business in South Africa in no way indicates suppon for that country's policy of racial separa­tion, says a Purdue University of­ficial. 
And desipite an an ti·apartheid p·rotest during the weekend, Purdue has no plans to divest its holdings in such companies. 
1oseph Bennett, director of university relations, said business investments do not mean that the school supports apartheid. 
"It's pretty hard to have a sound business portfolio if you try to limit" investments on the basis of where companies do business, Ben­nett said Sunday. "The university has tried to make its position clear from the beginning. There simply is 
no  basis  for  saying . that  Purdue  
supports apartheid."  
He noted  that Purdue  trustees  

have voted against divestiture three times. 

In a rally Saturday, 22 protesters 
-19 of them Purdue students ­
were arrested when they refused to 
leave a makeshift shanty built on 
campus to symbolize the plight of 
black South Africans. 

The demonstrators, protesting the school's reported $10 million in­vested in companies doing business in South Africa, were all released after the arrests. 
Meanwhile, Indiana University trustees voted over the weekend to divest all holdings in two com­panies doing business in South Africa. 
The companies, General Signal and Schlumberger Ltd., have not satisfactorily complied with guidelines established by the trustess at their November meeting in South Bend, the school announc­ed Saturday. 
The guidelines include com­pliance with the Sullivan Principles and other measures designed to help end policies of discrimination in South Africa. 
nolly. All current teaching, research and library faculty were
Faculty 

polled, according to the report. Tomorrow's meeting is at 7:
continuedfrom paKe 1 

30 p.m. in the Center for Continu­The committee sent the survey to ing Education and is open to the the faculty on Feb. 20, said Con-public. 

ABE YOU FEELING• •• 

the effects of your parents separating? Feeling Confused, sad, down, adrift, after the divorce? 
This workshop, DEALING WITH DIVORCE OR SEPARATING PARENTS, may help with some of those feelings and reactions. 
Lyons Hall, April9 at 6:30. Come to the social room in the basement. Sponsored by the Counseling & Psych. Services Center ... (Soon to be renamed. Stay tuned for details). 
ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now.

CLUB REGISTRATION Winners and locations are chosen by lottery. 
Ail clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
For~s are now available for: 

1. 
Registration 

2. 
Funding 


3. 
Football Concession Stands 


Pick Up Forms In Student. Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS APRIL 18, 1986 
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_____________________
T_ue-sda-y,_Ap-ril-8,_198_6_p_ag-e5 
Switek, Montanaro vow to listen to 'brethren' 
It's for real. Crazy! Is this Russia? This isn't Russia. Gee Beav, it looks like we finally got a coupla swell regular guys as Student Body President and Vice President. 
MikeSwitek Don Montanaro 

guest column 
So now what? Good question. When people heard that we were going to stay here in rockin' South Bend over break to get the hang of this student government cheese, they had one oftwo reactions: some laughed and called us fools, others expressed a feeling ofpity. All were operating under the outdated assump­tion that this student government stuff is a chore. We had fun here over break, (what?!), and we will continue to prove that these jobs can be entertaining. Now calm down all you crazy politicos -that does not necessarily mean that we are going to sit up in our offices giggling senselessly. 
We were catapulted straight from our couches into office. We're not some kind of political machine; we don't even compare to a well constructed wind-up toy. We are regular guys, and we wonder about the same things that most other regular guys (and gals) wonder about, namely, "Why is everybody staring at the sidewalk instead of saying hello or even (gasp!) smiling?" 
For those who have previously operated under the delusion that student government here at Notre Dame resembles any type ofreal world governing body, it's time to admit that we are not likely to change the world radi­cally. However, we can change the day to day life of the average student, and we will. 
Surveys have indicated that the student body happiness ratio goes up significantly in response to the playing of loud music on the quads on Friday afternoons; so we will see to it that either a band or a deejay is making noise every Friday (depending on the crazy South Bend weather patterns, of course). Nutty Cuckoo Dave! Nutty Cuckoo. 

Now, we will never be able to pull this whole thing off if we lose touch with our beloved couch brethren; so we are going to go to extremes to make ourselves accessible. Sometime in the near future you will be notic­ing some strange-looking individuals sitting behind desks out in the middle of the quad somewhere. We are going to bring the whole show out into the open, doing whatever it is we do right out there where you can see us, talk to us, advise us, trip over us. (Relax Grandma, it's just the crayon guys). 
We ask you to keep in mind that until a few weeks ago we made a habit of doing exactly what you do -sit around and complain about the quality of life around here. We hope that now that there are a couple of regular guys in office you will do what we never did -lean forward, pick up the phone and call us. We're almost always either in our room or in the stu­dent government offices (the numbers are in the book), so why not give us a call and scream unrealistic demands in our ear? We want to hear from the rest of you. 
SMC ·officers: 'We are excited for next year' 
We have been student body otflcers for one week now, so far, so good! We realize that it is too late to back out now, so here goes. By way of introduction again we are Jeanne Heller, student body president, a junior English major from Normal, Ill., Sarah· Cook, vice president of student af­fairs, a sophomore English and psychology major from Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Betsy Burke, vice president of academic affairs and college relations, a junior English literature and writing major from St. Louis, MO. 
Jeanne Heller Sarah Cook Betsy Burke guest column 

Student government awareness is our main goal for 1986-87. We represent you, the stu­dent body, and we want students to be aware of the services that student government pro­vides. But in order to be most effective, we need your input. We address every aspect of Saint Mary's community life: educational, spiritual, social and physical through com­missioners who sit on the Board of Gover­nance and the Programming Board. 
The Board of Governance is chaired by the student body president and provides a forum for discussion of issues and poliCies concern­ing students. This board consists of the vice president of student affairs, the hall and class presidents, and the following commis-
Doonesbury 

sioners: elections, Sandy Cerimele; Sheila Coyne, secretary; Kathleen Daily, public relations; Mary Fisher, judicial; Jill Gillig, treasurer; Rebecca Hetland, Campus Ministry; Mary Kim Koch, Notre Dame Stu­dent Senate liaison; Lori Lohman, publica-• tions; and Allyson Salzman, Freshman Council advisor. The Board of Governance met with and fostered good relations with almost every area of the College in 1985-86. The 1984-85 Board of Governance was responsible for the change in parietal hours. 
The Programming Board is chaired by the vice president of student affairs and is responsible for coordinating all student ac­tivities on campus. This board consists of hall and class vice presidents and the follow­ing commissioners: Mary Carol Cahill, calendar; Chris Didonato; Haggar College Center; Kim Drahota, athletic; Louise Foley, foreign studies; Smith Hashagen, Notre Dame Hall Presidents' Council liaison; Lisa Lawler, traditional events; Sue Miller, secretary; Suzanne Ritger, publicity; Kelly Nieses, publicity assistant; Jill Tiefenthaler, off-campus; and Eunice Tornetta, entertain­ment. 
The 1985-86 Programming Board spon­sored weekly coffeehouses called "That's Entertainment" and was responsible for Lit­tle Sisters' Weekend and the St. Paddy's Wagon. 
The Student Academic Council represents and acts upon the views of the Saint Mary's student body in relation to the academic af-

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
fairs of the College. The Council is chaired by the vice president of academic affairs and college relations and consists of student representatives from the following commit­tees: Health and Counseling, Library, Cultural Affairs, Teacher's Education Ad­missions and Scholarship and Curriculum; and also a student representative from each academic department. The 1986-87 Council will be reviewing the minors program and registration procedures and will be focusing on increased faculty involvement. 
We are eager to take a step in a responsible direction. You can help define our 1986-87 goals by contacting us. We have mailboxes in the Haggar Student Activities office, of­fices on the third floor of Haggar where we can be reached at 284-5373, and we will be sponsoring a Gripe Night on April 20 to hear your comments, suggestions and complaints. It's not too late to get involved. Hall officer elections are April 23. We are excited for next year. Remember, we wear students' shoes! 
Jeanne Heller is student body president at Saint Mary's. Sarah Cook is vice president of student affairs. Betsy Burke is vice president ofacademic affairs and college relations. 
P.O. BoxQ 

Teaching birth control is not condoning it 
DearEditor: 
After reading Shirley Cushnie's fire-and­brimstone letter condemning contraception being taught in St. Mary's recent sexuality series, I shuddered to think that such archaic drivel was printed at an institution of higher learning such as Notre Dame. 
lbough I agree with Cushnie that sexuality is a gift from God, and use ofthis gift should be carefully considered, I disagree with her posi-
Garry Trudeau 

MIY? 51iN77MENTAL REASONS,
GCOI), GtXtJ. I'll.. 7EiL. Y()(J 
RIN6!RING.'

MOSTLY. M4YweNl360nAre.r
IVHY I CAUEI:J. Ili't VeRY 
HEY,JA/115!

6R/3AT. rMGOIN6 7D PUTONMY 
THE ATTDR­

IIVTERESTEP IN AcaJIR!N6 
HI6H-IUVeREI? tE:64/.. COUNseL,
()ole CF HI$ ZOM81e ~v~ 
NCY GENC/?.AL.

M'3. JOAN!c '~"CAUCUS.
A MR. LE.6uMc. 
ONliNE TWO! 

" \ 
\_..<v~ 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor................ Scott Bearby Sports Editor. ............... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor. .................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor............ Margie Kersten Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski 
Oh, about this woman controversy. Some of you may have heard that we garnered few females votes in the election ( 282 was the offi­cial count). That's OK, we don't hold grudges. In fact, in order to increase our awareness of feminine issues and concerns we are happy to 
,
announce the new "Take the Student Body 
,
President and Vice President to Lunch" 
,
program. Women wishing to really impress us 
.,
may get fancy and bring us to the South Dining Hall. 
"' 
Well kids, you're going to be seeing an aw­.., ful lot of us in the next year, (scary thought, we know). Look for the new student govern­ment logo (the crayon}, when you see it you'll know where your money is being spent. Look for us in the next few days -we'll be roaming the dining halls with petitions championing the ever important Cheese and Macaroni cause. That's all for now from the Hall of justice. Beam us up Scotty! 
Mike Switek is the 1986-87 student body president at Notre Dame. Don Montanaro is serving as student body vice president. 
tion on birth control vehemently. Teaching the existence ofcontraception is not a satanic evil or a direct attack on the teachings of the Catholic Church. Indeed, doesn't the much heralded Natural Family Planning method achieve the same end? 
Cushnie stated strongly that "evil cannot be fought by evil." I submit that evil cannot be fought by ignorance. Making students aware oflatent facts in no way serves to condone or even encourage the use ofcontraceptives. In­stead, it makes them more clearlyaware ofthe moral choices that are before them. 
Tbmluls Beatty SorlnHall 
Quote of the Day 

"Friendship is not like running the four-minute mile. It is more difficult and more rewarding and it requires a steady effort rather than a big race." 
Eugene Kennedy "On Being a Friend" (1982) 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager. ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager .......... James Carroll Advertising Manager .... ..... Anne M. Culligan Photography Manager. .......... Drew Sandler Systems Manager............. David Thornton Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3,1966 

---~~ ~------~--------­
Accent 
( 
I 
~ 
l 
'Cheers' actor has roots at Notre Dame
I. 
f. 
l 
ERIC BERGAMO 

the idea struck. "It was on a 
features copy editor 

whim," explained Wendt. "The 
George Wendt may just be the best road trips are the ones that most famous person to drop out of aren't planned." Piling into an Notre Dame. MG, the trio headed west towards 
The actor who plays Norm on the Denver, only getting stopped once NBC hit comedy "Cheers" has by police in Illinois. Then came the come a long way from receiving a telegram from Leo J. Gorbci, then 
I telegram from the Registrar that Registrar for the University. 
{ 
he had been dismissed from Notre "It said, 'We never want to see 
~ Dame for having a 0.0 GPA. you at Notre Dame again. Don't 
l Wendt's experience with Notre even think of crossing the Inidana 
l Dame began long before that state line."' moment. His father, a 1943 grad­So what did this ex-domer do after uate, took Wendt to Notre Dame Notre Dame? football games when he was a After graduating from Rock­child. In 1967, Wendt entered hurst College in Kansas City in the U niversity as a student. He 1971, Wendt spent the next few lived in 133 Breen-Phillips as a years in southern Europe
( 
freshman and in 30 Pangborn as "bumming around and meeting
' a sophomore. others from England, Australia Wendt moved off campus for his and all over. It was a good way junior year, "Which may or may to meet friends." not have lead to my leaving Notre Only when the money ran out Dame," recalled Wendt. would Wendt return home and What did Wendt remember most work for his father, a prominent about his years under the golden Chicago businessman, helping dome? the secretaries and doing "girl "Parties," said Wendt. "I went to Friday" work. Finally deciding a Jesuit prep school and compared that he should do something with to that Notre Dame seemed like his life, Wendt considered what Sodom and Gomorrah. We were he liked. "I didn't like racehorses coming out of the like math, (six credit hours of re­gate. The gun went off and boom, quired calculus) and I didn't like off we would go." teaching. What I did like was the Did he ever see Father Hesburgh Second City troupe. So I became while he was here?" an actor." "Never." Life on "Cheers" wasn't always And, being the most poplar bar­smooth sailing. In its first season, fly on television today, where did "Cheers" was near the bottom of he go when he wanted to sow a few the Nielson ratings and constantly oats? in danger of extinction. "We "Corby's," answered Wendt. knew· we had a good show," says
',. George Wendt, who plays Norm on 'Cheers,' toast Notre Dame 
, What about Nickie's? Wendt about that time. "Fortun­
~----~--------------------~~~--~~~--~----------~~~----------~~~--­
( "If I had been there my senior ately, Mr. Cosby has taken care were released this past month, .. You bet," said Wendt. make for great copy, but I hope{. 
year (when Nickie's first opened), of that," he said in reference to "House" and "Gung Ho," feature Wendt expressed a sentiment he's more of an animal as a 
' 
I would have been there, too." the strong lead-in given by "The Wendt in major roles and are doing felt by all Notre Dame football coach." 
Did he have Emil Hoffman Cosby Show." well at the box office. In the movie fans when asked about the past Wendt also liked the hiring of for a class? Do the other actors on "Cheers" "Gung Ho," Wendt was directed season. Foge Fazio. "Holtz and Foge, "~o. but I heard about the guy." ever comment about Wendt being by Ron Howard ("Splash," "Co-"I'll say one thing, I want Miami ·I kind of like it." He was also 
But the event that stands out in the most famous drop-out of coon") and co-starred with Michael bad," refering to the 56-7 shel-happy when informed that Holtz Wendt's academic career at Notre Notre Dame? Keaton ("Night Shift," "Johnny lacking the Hurricanes gave the had brought Joe Yonto back to Dame is the road trip he took to "No," said Wendt. "College Dangerously"). Wendt enjoyed Irish. "It looked like they were the coaching staff. Would Wendt Denver. Unfortunately, this road doesn't really mean that much the experience. "I liked working badmouthing us after every play." return to Notre Dame someday? trip coincided with finals, hence when you're an actor." with them. Michael (Keaton) What does Wendt think of new "Only if they give me an honorary theO.OGPA. When Wendt is free from his is a very funny fellow." coach Lou Holtz? degree." 
Wendt was eating pizza with two commitment to "Cheers," he Does this former domer still fol-"I hooe he's more of an animal. Who knows, maybe the ad friends at a local restaurant when turns to movies. Two movies that low Notre Dame sports? All those witty things he says ministration will. 

( ( ( 
' 
r 

CATHERINE COFFEY assistant features editor 
"It goes through stages. When I first got here it was longer than this. Then I got a cut and left this long but shaved it all around. I've had it about a month, but didn't shave the sides bald right away. Then I just did it. I got a total mohawk," said freshman Mike Bender. 
Unique haircuts abound on the campus this year, ranging from long spikes to virtually no hair at all. It is no longer unusual to see flattops, mohawks and brushcuts in the dining halls. And with the warm weather, the shorter cuts will probably become even more popular. But this hasn't always been the case. 
"Last year this haircut was a lot less common," said sophomore John Keegan, whose flattop is modelled after basketball player Matt Beeuwsaert. 
Freshman Paul Bentinger, whose hair now resembles that of musi­cian Charlie Sexton agreed, saying "I noticed that a lot of people are getting a bit more risque. At first 
.
Hairstyles show ' un1 
only a few people did something weeks?" with their hair. But now, there are a Some, however, do think the cuts lot of people with different hair­stand for more than just an outgo­cuts." ing personality. 
But why look for such unique "My mother told me I couldn't styles? Why so extreme come to Florida if my hair was cut Because they want to make a per­like this. She thinks people's hair sonal statement? Because they're should be 'normal'," said Keegan. punks? Freaks? Wierdos? Accor­"My dad made comments," said ding to some, the answer is no. O'Reilly of her spikes. "I know my 
Most of these people are just parents don't really care for it, but looking for something to add I'm five hundred miles away and I bounce and shine to the otherwise don't see them that much." flat, dry and brittle life enjoyed at Although parents are the most Notre Dame. They want to express likely to comment negatively on the their creativity and extroverted per­extroversion of these students, their sonalities. peers surprisingly, also are 
Commented Megan O'Reilly, adverse to the students' displays of whose spikes were sculpted by Matt creativity. at Jan's Hairum. "I always express "I think my girlfriend might be myself-verbally, emotionally. My afraid to go out with me with my being different comes out in earr­hair cut like this. She says it's fun­ings, jewelry, hair, the way I dress, ny, but I know she'd never go the way I look, everything." anywhere out in public with me, 
"I'm not trying to say anthing by with the exception of an occasional it or make a statement," said SYR," Keegan said. Bender. "IT's just a thing to do. I Are the students 'shafted' by mean, I'm 18, why not? If I don't faculty members? Apparently not. like it. it grows back in what, three In fact, professors have been the 
------~ ----------------~ 
-··· 
Tuesday, AprilS, 1986-page 6-7 
Area offers a variety of hair salons 
fare best on weekday mornings.
The salon, which is staffed by three beds (probably through May), omers do not make appointments,PHIL WOLF women, is open from 9 a.m. to the salon also will be open for a few and the staff of 15 men and women Manager Jeff Emmons says the 
features writer 

salon may increase its staff and
8 p.m. Monday through Thursday, hours on Sunday. Appointments quickly can serve them. Most of
You've finally decided to get your hours of operatin when it opens
from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday, are suggested, although watk-ins the customers are young people,
hair cut and styled. You may even and from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on are accommodated when possible and a discount of 15 percent is in its new location in Lafortune have decided how you want it to Saturday. Appointments are by the staff of seven. Afternoons given to all students. Student Center next fall. 
look when it's finished. Now you A haircut, with shampoo and
necessary. are best for walk-ins. Haircuts start at $11. Men's
must decide where to go for the finishing, costs $10. ROTC stu­
A haircut with shampoo and Haircuts cost from $9 to $12, haircuts with styling cost $13,
job. 
dents may have their hair cut for
styling costs at least $15 for women depending on the style. A haircut and women's haircuts with styling
Several factors must be considered $6. Perms start at $40. For an
and $13 for men. A dry trim for with finishing costs from $16 to cost $16. Perms start at $45, and
in selecting a hair salon. The talent appointment, call239-5144. 
men is $9 and "area trims" (such $20. Perms start at $29.95, and coloring costs from $17 to $30.
and experience of the staff must as bangs) cost $5. Blow drying coloring starts at $18.50. Students For an appointment, call 272-The Varsity Shop be taken into account, of course, and styling starts at $8, and a receive a discount of 20 percent on 1168. Located at the corner of Edison 
so talking to friends about where Sears 
shampoo and set starts at $8. all services. For an appointment, Road and State Route 23, The
they have their hair styled may be Although it operates under the 
Perms range from $25 to $45, call234-5350 or 277-0505. Varsity Shop is an easy walk from 
a good idea. Other factors, such as Sears name, the salon at the Uni­campus, and many students haveand coloring starts at $18. For an
prices and services offered, also Master Cuts versity Park Mall Sears store
appointment, call284-5363. their hair cut and styled there. 
must be considered. And, for most Master Cuts, which is operated actually is run by Glemby, the The shop is open Monday through students, transportation can be a Hudson's (Giemby) by Regis Hairstylists, offers only national company with a rep­Saturday from 8 a.m. to 7:30p.m.,
problem if the salon is far from The salon in the Hudson's store haircuts and perms, no styling or utation for excellent hair cutting. 
and it is possible to make appoint­campus. The following list of at University Pa,rk Mall is oper­shampoo, etc. The advantages for The staff of 11 welcomes young ments. Many customers do not salons -in alphabetical order -ated by Glemby, a national chain the customer are lower prices and people, and the salon even has a make appointments, however,is by no means a comprehensive list which prides itself on the training quicker service. Located in Uni­special students' night. The salon but at least one of the staff of 10 of salons in the South Bend area. and talent of its hair stylists. versity Park Mall, the shop is is open from 10 a.m. to people usually is available for It is: however, a guide to some Customers may choose either a open during regular mall hours 8 p.m. on weekdays, from 9 a.m. 
walk-ins. 

salons which are easily accessible "stylist" or a "master" to cut thier No appointments are made, but the to 8 p.m. on Saturday and from Haircuts cost $6, and an extra to most students. They are, for the hair. The masters are those stylists staff of five men andwomen usually noon to 5 p.m. on Sunday. Most charge of at least $2 is tacked on most part, on campus, within with the most skill and experience. can accommodate all walk-ins. customers make appointments, for blow drying and styling. A walking distance of campus, or at The salon is open during regular The best time to go is in the morn­but many also benefit from spon­shampoo and set is $7, and permsUniversity Park Mall, which mall hours (10 a.m. to 9 p.m. ing when there are the fewest cus­taneous specials which are an­start at $25. Streaking and frosting may be reached by bus. on weekdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. tomers. nounced over the store's public costs from $10 to $30. For an ap­L.S. Ayres on Saturday and noon to 5 p.m. on Haircuts cost $8, and blow drying address system. 
oointment, call277-0057. 

The full-service salon at Ayers Sunday). Most customers reserve is an extra $3 to $5. Students are A shampoo and haircut costs One factor in choosing a salon is located on the second floor a time with one of the seven women entitled to a discount of 20 percent $10, and blow drying is an extra 
is hard to quantify: the atmos­of the department store. It is open stylists at the salon, although on all visits. $8. Men's haircuts and blow drying sphere. Here, again, asking around from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Monday, walk-ins may be accommodated. J.C. Penny cost only $10 on Wednesday night, 
may be the best idea. Some salons Wednesday and Friday, from All salon services are available. A staff of 36 people wields the which is men's night. Men's perms such as the Glemby salon at 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Tuesday and Haircuts cost $9 ($10 for a master), scissors at the hair salon at J. C. cost only $19.95 on men's night, Hudson's and the shop at AyresThursday, and from 8 a.m. to finishing costs $8 ($9 for a master), Penny, so there usually is no while the regular perm prices are are very luxurious, but they are also 5 p.m. on Saturday. Most of the perms are $40 to $50 and coloring problem for walk-ins. The salon from $35 to $50. 
rather expensive. Others, such as customers -70 percent of whom costs from $10 to $19. Students at University Park Mall is open A special attraction for students is the salons on the campuses, The are women -make appointments pay full price on their first visit, but from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday students' night, which is from Varsity Shop and Master Cuts, with a particular stylist, but walk­they are entitled to a 25 percent through Saturday and noon to 4 to 8 p.m. every Thursday. 
offer less atmosphere and lower ins are accommodated when discount on all services thereafter. 5 p.m. on Sunday. Appointments Students may get a shampoo, hair­prices. Then there is the shop at possible. For an appointment, call 277-are made for those who wish, and cut, blow drying and styling for Sears, which attempts to make the weekday afternoons are the best just $5. The staff members of the
Haircuts start at $9, but may cost 6206 Jan's Hair-Um salon fun, with students' night and 
times for walk-ins. salon speak fondly of the several
more, depending on the type of cut. Since it is located on U.S. 31 a valuable discounts announced 
'groups of regulars who come in
A shampoo costs $2 and blow few miles from campus (143 Dixie Haircuts start at $8.50 and blow only to customers in the store. 
for students' ni~ht.
drying is $5. The salon manager Way South), Jan's Hair-Urn is ac­drying costs $8. Perms start at And if all of this seems like a lot
University Hair Stylists 
says a customer can expect to pay cessible only to students who have $35. No discounts are offered, of fuss over getting a haircut,
Conveniently located on the first 
about $20 to $22 for a haircut, their own transportation. Nonethe­but some services occasionally "ROTC" Joe D'Angelo offers
floor of Badin Hall, the University 
shampoo and styling. No discounts less, many Notre Dame and Saint go on sale. good haircuts for $5.50 in the
Hair Stylists see their share of 
are available for students. For an Mary's students make the trip. The campus barbershop on the first
Regis Hairstylists students, both from Notre Dame 
appointment, call277-4661. salon offers a full line of services, This full-service salon at Univer­floor of Badin Hall. Appoint­
and Saint Mary's. All salon ser­
including tanning beds. Jan's ments, which usually must be made 
Campus Hair Crafters sity Park Mall is operated by the vices are offered by the eight-mem­
The Saint Mary's salon, which is ·is open from 8:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. about three days in advance, may
Regis national chain. The salon ber staff. Hours for the salon are 
located in the basement of LeMans on weekdays and from 8 a.m. be made in person or by calling Joe 
is open from 9 a.m. Monday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. MondayHall, offers a full line of salon to 5 p.m. on Saturday. As long through Saturday, and from noon at 239-7624. 
through Saturday, and appoint­
Mary Ellen Harrington contributed 
services, including tanning beds. as there is a demand for the tanning to 5 p.m. on Sunday. Most cust-ments are taken. Walk-ins usually 
to report. 

que' individuality 
his look, ''you don't get too manymost supportive, commenting on the V's in back, I could part is on chicks."
the students' strength in expressing the side and it'd look normal," "A lot of people come up andthemselves and asserting their per­agreed Bentinger, who will enter talk to me that I didn't know wellsonalities. the College of Engineering next 
"I've had professors say they year. before-a lot of acquaintences. really like the fact that I'm not O'Reilly, a government major Even when people bust you about 
hair, they notice. I guess I don'tafraid to walk around like this and who plans to attend law school, 
exert my individuality," said feels the same way. mind being noticed, even if it might O'Reilly. "I can wear it down, part it on be unfavorable," he said. Other faculty members merely the side, or swoop it in front," she No matter what people think,
poke fun, not meaning any harm. says of her cut. 
Then there are those who don't these students and others on cam­"My Seminar class went out for have to worry about looking nor­pus sport their 'dos and will con­pizza at the end of the last tinue the practice despite publicsemester. and my professor said, 'I mal. 
reactions. Although most wouldthink we'll call you "Boy Paul." ' I "I work construction during the think their unorthodox locks gogot along with him pretty well," summer so nobody really cares against the traditional universitycommented Bentinger. what my hair look like," Keegan 
One advantage of the haircuts is said. standard of "If you don't look their versatility. Must of the styles good, we don't look good," the can be tamed for those times when He, however, did admit that he faculty seems to enjoy the view. they need to look 'Normal' and the would "never go to a job interview" These four certainly are enjoying 
ones that can't such as the mohawk, with his present "do." themselves. So who knows? Why grow out so quickly that they're not Another highlight of the novel not take advantage of that inhibiting. Since the cuts are all in looks is the notoriety they create. anonymous saying, "hair today, fun, the students compromise no But these extroverts don't seem to gone tomorrow" and rush right principles when they make their mind, although none of them admit over to ROTC Joe in Badin for a cuts more conservative. to getting the cuts to help their flattop, or Matt at Jan's Hairum 

"Right now I could get out of the social life. Keegan actually thinks it for spikes? It should prove to be a The mohawk ofMIJI'Y Loft~. 0.oftlw 111tiqwhairstyles on campus. shower, and with the exception of may be hurting his, citing that with hair rai,~ing experience. 
~r 
lt\ J 
:~ The Observer Tuesday, AprilS, 1986-page 8 
~ 
! . 
':
·' 
l' 
Sports Briefs 
The Harlem Globetrotters, featuring Lynette Woodard, will visit the ACC this Friday night. Tickets are on sale now at the ACC with chair seats selling for $9.50 and bleacher seats for $8.00. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff will receive a two-dollar discount on all tickets. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will hold a meeting concerning the election of officers tonight at 7 in Nieuwland room 127. All rowers are expected to attend. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC sailing club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. For more infor­mation call Joan Anderson at 272-1259. -the Observer 
Bookstore Basketball will be featured tonight on "Speaking of Sports" beginning at 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Bookstore commissioner Steve Wenc will join hosts Rudy Brandl and Kevin Herbert to answer questions and comments at 239-6400. WVFI will have results of Bookstore Basketball games every night at 11:45 and previews at noon. -The Observer 
Major League Baseball opened yesterday with five games. In the American League, the Detroit Tigers beat Boston, 6­
5. Cleveland topped Baltimore, 6-4, while Milwaukee snuck by Chicago, 5-3. In the National League, the Cincinnati Reds clob­bered Philadelphia, 7-4, while Los Angeles defeated San Diego by a 2-1 margin -The Observer 
Sather, Oilers remain very cautious 

Associated Press 
Glen Sather is uncomfortable and Wayne Gretzky is uneasy as the Edmonton Oilers prepare to defend their National Hockey League title, beginning this week in the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
"If I had my choice, I'd rather sneak up on someone who didn't know what was happening," said Sather, coach of the two-time Stanley Cup champions. "But we haven't been able to sneak up on 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
To make matters worse, The Hammers won the game easily, 21­6, while playing with only four men. They were led by Mike Vabganin's 10-of-19 from the field. Tina Chou screamed the loudest for the losers, scoring two baskets on seven attempts. 
The brickshooting award for the day went to Tom Tracy as he failed to help Teachers in Space with an 0­of-14 shooting performance against Lay Down, I Think I Love You. John Koselka refused to lie down but instead scored nine points in leading his team to a 21-9 victory. 
Bookstore veteran Jeff 
anybody since Wayne (Gretzky) started to play for the team." 
Gretzky, the NHL's individual point-scoring champion for the sixth straight year, with a record 215 points, feels the Oilders can't take anything for granted despite a strong finish in the regualr ~eason. 
"It gets tougher each year becaue people want to knock off the cham­pions," he said. 
Those people include the Van­couver Canucks, the Oilers' op­ponents in the Smythe Division 
Masciopinto provided one of yesterday's best shooting perfor­mances as he shot 9-of-14 to propel 5 Stiffs Gently Ribbed for the True Feeling of Love past Flamming Buttresses, 21-6. John J. Kennedy completely dominated the boards with 25 rebounds to help White Dudes slip past 5 Guys Who Like Hot Pies, 22-20. 
The well-balanced scoring of Oriental Express proved too much for We Scared 0' the Goofaman as the Express rolled to a 21-18 vic­tory. Gao Tse-Chiang, Hung Ren­dy and Yeh Ting-Jiang each scored five baskets for the victors. 
It took The Snackers 84 shots to put away Chief Big Head and the Baals, 21-14. Pat Collins and Tom McHugh took the most shots, best-of-five semifinal opener tomorrow night at Edmonton. Best-of-five divisional semifinals also will begin tomorrow night in the Norris, the Adams and the Patrick divisions. 

· The other Smythe semifinal battle 
. will be between Calgary and Win­nipeg. In the Norris, it's Chicago against Toronto and St. Louis vs. Minnesota. The Adams playoffs feature Quebec against Hartford and Montreal against Boston. 
shooting 4-of-21 and 2-of-18, respectively. 
"Fatigue and a basic lack of basketball skills played a large part in our performance," said McHugh. "But we'd like to thank our fans and also the other team for serving us Bloody Mary's at the halftime. It gave us 3 needed lift." 
The drinks seemed to help Mark Howell the most, as he shot 5-of-10 to lead The Snackers. Chris Mc­Clean scored nine for the lsoers. 
In today's big games, varsity football player Tim Brown leads Much More Manhood, a Final Four team last year, against Five Seniors with Big Loads on Stepan Coart 1 at 6:15. Also, Tofu Chaka Khan, a final 16 team last year plays G*A*S*h* at 5:30 on Bookstore Court 10. 
,,,. (Jh.\l'rtl'l '"lrt ll.lllJt• lltlllt "" .ltnl "" tlu· tlurd rlouor "' l,dllfllllll "ttllkllt C nllt·r .lltt·pt'' l.t"tlinl.uht rt'""!-! lro•111 '1.1 111 11111!1 II' 111 \lo•ll<l.l\ 1hn Ht).:h I nd.11 I ht· t Jh.,.·rt ,.,. ".mll \!.1 n ' ..rt I< , It" .11, d '•II t I;, till rd llo" •r ••I ll.t).:).:.tr c olk).:t· C nll•·r ·'',,I''', 1.1"11" -'' lr• ••11 I.! o\11 I' 111 1111111 ~ p 111 \lo •n d.JI thoHI).:Il I ntl.l\ I kJdlllll f,.r IH '\I d.l\ 'I.I"IIH "' '' ~ pIll \II tl.t"llll d' Jllll't ht· prt·p.tul ntht r "ll'' r"'"n "r l•1 111.111 c h.lr).!t 1, HI' nth I'< r l1\t· tlur.lt
Classifieds 
tt·r' t·r t1.11 

Hungry? Call YELLOW ::SUt:IMARINEEXTRA LARGE 4 BEDROOM HOUSE Second annual KARIN HOBGOOD Thank You St. Jude for all your help! 
NEAR CAMPUS. LOTS OF EXTRAS! Birthday Party KARIN HOBGOOD Pleaae continue to help me! at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours tonight:
NOTICES ., 
NEAR BRIDGET'S. $400 A MONTH UN­In Hopperlancl 5pm·12am.
KARIN HOBGOOD 
FURNISHED. WILL FURNISH IF 
HAPPYB-OAY Typing Avaia.ble DESIRED. CAll272-8185 Girls: Come and meet the guys that HAPPY 8-DAY 
Spanish.A· .Psych,98,Comp FOR SALE Official NO class ring ­
your mothers warned you about
287-4082 HAPPY B·DAY Lit,A.Chemiatry.7...Thank NEW, 14K, women's petite, spinal
Guys: Come and meet the girls who 
LOVE, P.S.
Semi·furnlshed house good You,St.Jude!!!!!! blue stone. A good deal. Linda V. 277·
are In the habit of ignoring their
neighborhood call after 4 · 255-3684 6856.
TYPING mothers 
KARIN HOBGOOD ts 20 years old to­277;3604
CA&.L CHRIS day. She will be accepting BIRTH­11T SOUACI NEW CAR SALE 234-8117. 5~~~;;·~-i~~~~;~ ··L;v·~·i~·~..i~;~;~~ed DAY KISSES all day. Give her a BIA· APRIL 18TH, NO ACC Ombudsman Presents 
Attention Gumby gift wrap fans: 
THDAY CALL· 284-4067 OPERATION BRAINSTORM house near NO for very little money. 
Gumby has quit the Ca. wedding Ombudsman Presents 
................................................................

call 289-5245
Wordproceuing· Typing scene and has been spotted surfing 
KAFIIN HOBGOOD·watch out for 84POMCHEM4 OPERATION BRAINSTORM 272-8827 St. Joe Lake. Inquire as to his 
those "teela" pockets! Happy B·day! 11,000 MILES 118,500whereabouts at rm. 748 P.E., 4570. 
Love, Peg, Janet, & P.S. ND ACC APRIL 18TH 
WANTED 

Ombudsman Presents 
TYPING • Faat, High-Quality. Call 287· TA Worshipper, Cross-Stitch God· Steve G. 9257 dess, and Sun·Lover. HAPPY BIRTH· OPERATION BRAINSTORM 
RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR, female. wiN Steve G. 
DAY!! 19 years and 1 day old. Have a
sit with children (or houae). perform Where were you? I waited backstage OAR HOUSE: COLD lEER & UQUOR. 
Typing/Wordproceaing GREAT one!! Love, the Roomies 
' household enoree, in return tor room and for you. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.• 1 An Idea Contest ................. .
' 277-8131 
board.Referencea available. 283-2762. Desperately seeking you, BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
'·' DESPERATELY SEEKING: AIDE TO Hula GOT TICKETS FOR COMMENCEMENT Love, L.W., C.H., & D.S. ...details in the dining halls and at I he 
CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. 1ST IOURCE NEW CAR SALE PLEASE CALL MARY KATE AT 4174.
?? Need 2 tix. Will pay $$$. Cll MARK at SENIORS ••••••• SENIORS OBUD desk in LaFortune. 
APRIL 18TH, NDACC 

2287. KATHY VAN ZWOLL Mowing to a new city?"Nice guys" wanted at Northwestern 
I want you, I need you, I love you! NMCI a roommate? WORK WANTED. HARD WORKING Happy Birthday! Career I Place~~Mnt Services can
Med School·thls means you Jeff­84 PORSCHE M4 congrats!! 
There are Official Notre Dame Track
MAN NEEDS MONEY FOR GRAD Love, the psycho drummer help.
18,000 MILES 118,500 and Field T·Shirts and Sweat tops left
SCHOOL EXTERIOR PAINTING AND Stop by or call238-5200. 
(very few left). Please hurry and pur·
ND ACC APRIL 11TH. ANDY DOUGHERTY: Your smile chase one or as many as we have left. 
LANDSCAPING. GOOD It all started one day when Sheila In· 
makes me smile. I'd like to say hi, T-Shirts are S8 and Sweat Tops are 
REFERENCES.CALL OON (616-695-vited AI, Megan Invited Tim, Lynn in· 
2369). but...Sincerely, an observer vited Ed, Sarah Invited Tom, Mary SENIORS ••••• SENIORS 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL $15. Call Tom at 239-7634 for more in­
Lynn invited Eric and Jean Invited Mowing to a new city?
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. NO SPANISH INSTRUCTOR NEEDS OKIE, formation ... this is top quality mer·
John. NHd a roommate? 
REASONABLE ROOM/BOARD NEAR chandlse.
Then Cat'MI' I Place~~Mnt Services can NYU FOR YEAR 86-87.CALL KEVIN I'm clueless Sarah uninvited Tom, i..,nn uninvited help.
291-2878. 
So the next move is yours. Ed and Eric unlnvltea himself. Stop by or cell238-5200.LOST/FOUND Thursday Really was Fun. But 
HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! A81idental Sarah reinvlted Tom and Lynn reln­ATTENTION SPORTS WRITERS MISSING: LARGE ROUND ROTARY Camp in SouthWfttern Michigan needs PREGNANT?
vited Ed. (Eric still did not reinvitedcounselors. inatructcn, unit leaders and
SIGN FROM THE LOWER LEVEL OF ALASKA himself( NEED HELP? There will be a mandatory meeting
THE SAINT MARY'S DINING HAll. program directors. Call lor information Then Wednesday, April 9, at 8 in Little PLEASE RETURN-NO QUESTIONS and appNcationa. Muat be 18 yrs. or oldel'. ROB, (MR. NICE GUY), 
Lynn uninvited Ed again and Mary Call 234.0363. 24-hr. hotline, Theater. We'll be discussing springWILL BE ASKED! THIS SIGN IS RE­Camp Chief Makillbee, 8800 Black lake WE KNOW IT TAKES YOU A LONG Lynn in desperation is considering in· counseling & free pregnancy tests. assignments and other things. If youQUIRED FOR THE ROTARY CLUB Road. Eau Claire, Michigan 49111 TIME BUT OVER . AN HOUR IS 
vlting Mikey, James, or Larry but not can't make it, please notify Dennis or MEETINGS. (616)424·5272. RIDICULOUS. HERE'S SOME TIPS. Doug. Is Senior Formal really worth WOMEN'S CARE CENTER one of the assistants. Thanks 
GET CLOSE 
this????? 
FOUND: ladies watch OUtside NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­,PENETRATE, AND SHOOT. CHICAGO SHOPPING TRIP! O'Shaugn-y Thursday, 3-20. Cal MENT EXERCISES. WILl PAY ($$). K-NO LUCK Kevin at277·0920 to identify. CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. LOVE, 3 B'S ON THEIR KNEES COUNSELORS: The NO Chicago Club will be spon·
BEFORE 10. Summer boys resident camp in N.E. soring a bus into Chicago on HELP!II I LOST A BLACK AND GOLD ANTHONY, High salary, travel allowance for SAT APRIL 12th STRIPED WATCH IN THE FIRST WEEK DO YOU GET WOMANLY POINTS students with skills in basketball, . Departs 9:30am from main circle thanks$ OF MARCH.IT WAS PROBABLY LOIT FOR SALE FOR A PERSONAL? baseball, soccer, sailing, tennis, ar­and returns 7pm. Cost is only $10 Thank you all for making my 201h soAROUND THE IUIINESS IUILDING, LOVE, THE LONE RANGER, TONTO, chery, fencing, computer, pioneering, round trip! (Deluxe motor coach) 
special. You are all super. Love ya,ST. MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OA SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND SILVER ropes, bicycling. Also openings for Sign-ups at ND-LaFortune Main Desk MariaCAVANAUGH HAll. PLEASE CON­AN's, LPN's. For further information
AND CREDIT' C~lf notes available. PAN­5-7pm Wed, Thurs. SMC-Dining Hall TACT TONY AT 1412. REWARDS$$ IF DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. MIKE "BIFF" MCDERMOTI, call 914-381-5983 or write to Camp 4:3().6:15 Wed and Thurs. Space is FOUND. HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL 233-2342 GOOD JOB FRIDAY NIGHT!! Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, limited. so don't miss out! Shish: Realize you're gett.ng poohed 
VALUE, PLEASE HELP!! 

YOUR OWN PERSONAL FLOCK N.Y. 10543. . ................ . on by Molly·· ... Vet 
................................................................ CH.ICAGO... CLUB SWEATSHIRTS
RIDE NEEDED FOR 3 PEOPLE TO .............................................-.................. 
Lost two gold keys on silver elastic OJ, CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS
MIAMI OF OHIO
band. Call277-6798. thanks....... . TICKETS SPONTANAITY IS THE KEY TO LIFE/ CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS It may be! 
LEAVE 4-18, RETURN 4-20 CALL 3874 
BUT IT DOESN'T HURT TO BE Get them at The Cellar! .......... . II could be! Lost Lost Lost· at B.P. Formal-sport PREPARED. GET THOSE WAFFLE It Is! Home run! 
I NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS!!!! IF HELP! NEED RIDE TO
coat with wallet in chest pocket. I RECIPES READY. YOU'LL HAVE P.J. handcranked ice cream-·Yt::S! HsrryCarsy
YOU ORDERED EXTRAS, I WILL BUY INDIANAPOLIS
have yours-call -1805 and we can PLENTY OF TIME TO PRACTICE feeding the ducks, Chicago, monopo· 
THEM. PLEASE CAU MIKE AT 277· FRIDAY 4111, RETURN SUNDAY.
trade. Very important call Kevin at NEXT YEAR. ly til dawn and the Jetsons. Still in­
1087.1 AM DESPARATE!!!!! WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL STEVE AT
1805, that's 1805. 1805! ........... . D terested? L. Thank you LED ZIPPELIN, you saved 
1617 AFTER MIDNIGHT my life. I couldn't have done it 
I DE.SP.EFlATELY...NE.ED··A···RIDE TO .............·-··-··························--·--········.. ···· 
LOST: BLACK ROSARY. Great sen­BRIE, without you. timental value. If found, please call You Light Up My Life ! ! ! CINCINNATI, LOUISVILLE, OR IN· CONGRATULATION & THIS & THAT 283-1432 after 11:00 p.m ........... . PERSONALS THANKS, LOVE HUCK DIANAPOLIS ANYTIME THIS WEEK. JIMMY JAMES Selling SR. FORMAL BID! Home 272· 
PLEASE CALL 3772! II! Yale bound ...Yale bound...Yale 8834, Office 239-5136 S60 ask for Pam LOST: WHITE.SHORT WINTER COAT 
IIIOio-oooo•nloOoooooo•OooooOO•OOOOOOoouooo•••••••u•••••••••
·;.;·;·;·r;·;·······-······~·;·~d·········;·i-d~······ ..i·o 
boundWITH GREEN PLAID SCARF TWO ID'S CPA REVUE: Desperately need ride to Miami of Oh.

from that certain Yale man.

AND DETEX AT MR. D'S 3/19. IT'S NOT AKRON leaving 4/11. Call Michele 2685 orACCCARSALE
EVEN MY 10 AND IT'S NOT EVEN REAL or anywhere east along 1-80 call Moe
A real Anita 291-5699!
Ia IUIIARU 18,243CALL CARRIE X3221 288-9121

cliffhanger! 
April 18th 88 FIERC lt,teS POLISH SAUSAGE AWARD:88 GRAND-AM lt,lt5Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 SHIRLEYCALL MARIO MANTA Be SUN..RD 18,te5
through the U.S. government? GelAttention SMC students:
FOR RENT 
General Committee Meeting for the facts today! Call 1·312·742·1142 88 FIAEIIRD 110,585 · · · · · · · · ·oiiau·oslii.\N 
for more Information 86 MERCURY LYNX $5,888
Ellt. 7318.
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272-Orientation '86 GRIPE NIGHT
236-2201 aa ESCORT $5,187 
6306 April 8th & 9th aa OLDS CALAIS lt.1H
BRAND NEW! Ross 10.spet'd. In­
6:00pm 88 HORIZON 11,500 Wednesday, April II
cludes tool kit, tire pump, 6' steel
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO Carroll Hall 4:45to8:45
ACC APRIL 18TH cable & lock. $99. Call Greg. 232­

Must attend 1 meeting 6153 FOR NEXT SCHOOl YEAR 2876389 Thanks for your prayers St. Jude South Dining Hall 

The Observer Tuesday, AprilS, 1986 -page 9 
Brown leads the charge 
Indiana beats track team 
Receiving corps keeps improving 
Special to The Observer meters. Brennan's time of 54.8 
The Notre Dame track team dropped a close match to In­diana, 77-74, as the squad's dual-meet season got underway. Although the loss was tough to take, Irish head coach Joe Piane was happy with his team's show­ing. 
"It was a good meet and on the whole the kids performed well," said Piane. "I was surpris­ed to see Tony Ragunas win the 100 meters and i hadn't expected Mike Brennan's second place in the intermediate hurdles." 
Ragunas won the 100 with a time of 11.01, just .03 of a se­cond ahead of the Hoosiers' Albert Robertson. Ragunas also finished second in the 200 

ALUMNI •SENIOR CLUB 
BARTENDER APPLICATIONS 
Now available in the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. 
You must be 21 by Deadline is Sept. 10, 1986 Monday, April14 to apply. 
(Interviews will be April 21) 
M}\Df.SON
I'-..,....,.._..,....,.~ coach. Everybody has a little more incentive to go out and impress him." AVE
'&.fWJ£' For Brown, who reported toj.&J£ workouts freshfromtrack competi­tion, it was not difficult to attract P.~rRsl .:.~c,..r• lr the attent of new head coach Lou 
.&;,, ~&:;, • ~ Wfa:; Holtz. Brown's condition, intesnsi­ty, and attitude, along with his outstanding ability drew immediate 
PRESENTATION BY 
admiration from Holtz and receivers' Coach Pete Cordelli. 
JACK BOWEN 
"I can't say enough about Tim 
Chairman of the Board & CEO of 
D' Arcy Masius Benton & Bowie 
SUMMIJR STOllAGIJ SPAOII 
DMB & 8 is one of the leading advertising Special discount for BDISMG students agencies in the U.S. (5 x 10 spaces and larger) Jack Bowen will talk on: CALL 259·0835 to USIJBVI SP.&CIJ "Advertising Careers in the 90's" SELF LOCK STORAGE Of MCKIXLilY "What Advertising has to Offer You" 
816 East Me Kinley 
a short tape will be shown on DMB & B Advertising , 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
WHEN: WED. April 9th WHERE: Hayes-Healy 
Auditorium Queen's Castle TIME: 7:30 P.M. & The Knights 
Question and answer period after the presentation 
$5 student $8.50 comp 
. cut style 
MINUtES AWAY.FROM CAMPUS
Sponsored by:-~., 

272-0312 277-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS
notQe oame 

A6()fi<~tlll (]u~ 
We aleo leatare the Ro"al Bronze Suntanning 
Ce•ter

and the Advertising Educational Foundation 
Iillllllj 
~~....o~ Student Government-·----­~,ca-\o ASSISTANT TREASURER 
~~~ available in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor Lafortune Must presently be a Sophmore Accounting Major Applications due 
if you have any questions call
Friday, April 11 , 4:00 PM 
'Becca at 239-7417 
put him .4 of a second behind 
Indiana's Scott Hacker. 
In other track events, Rick Mulvey won the 3,000-meter steeplechase with a time of nine minutes and 29 seconds, a new meet record. Ron Markezich also picked up a meet record in the 5,000 meters with a time of 14:37.71. 
In field events, Brian Driscoll won the javelin competition, while Joel Autry won the triple jump with an effort of 43-5. 
Next up for part of the Irish squad is the Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tenn., this weekend. Another contingent of the team will head for West Lafayette for the Boilermaker relays, also to be held this weekend. 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Notre Dame defensive players might not believe it, but flanker Tim Brown is not always in a big hurry. 
Just because Brown has cut and slashed his way with abandon through the defense over the spring practice season does not mean he's counting the days until the fall season. On the contrary, Brown seems to be enjoying himself im­mensely as he leads an experienced and talented group of Irish recievers that has looked solid throughout the spring sessions. 
"Things have been going really well and I'm just having fun out here," said Brown after yesterday's practice. "It's not like the real thing because we're only playing against ourselves, but I like the practices . I've certainly been learning a lot, especially out of the backfield." 
Brown himself, though, has taken more than one opposing defender to school when he lines up in the wishbone., Thischange,along with the changes in coaching staff, have not served to slow the sophomore speedster but rather to add fuel to his competative fires. 
"It's different running from the 
backfield but I like carrying the ball 
so I can't complain," said Brown. 
"It's also a new situation for the 
simple fact that we have a new 

GIFT SHOP 20~iscount to Students 

sketched note cards, baskets, beautiful pastel a' cent rugs, and Tiffany Lamps & nite lights, etc. 
50% off Easter items! 
Within walking distance • across from Pepper's Subaru Gift certificates for Hot Air Balloon rides 2036 State Road 23-8485 

Brown," said Holtz. "His work habits have been outstanding!' 
"He's a sujper athlete," agreed Cordelli. "He came in here ready to play. Like everyone else he has some things to improlve, but he has .. been great." 

Tim Brown 

Brown's consistent and frequent­ly dazzling play is not the only reason, however, that observers are tabbing the Notre Dame receiving corps as one of the nation's best. Much of the respect accored to the unit will fall on veterans Milt Jackson, Reggis Ward, Alvin Miller and Tony Eason. 
Although split ends Jackson and Miller both missed last season with injuries, the two potential stars have shown enough in the workouts to allay most fears. Miller has been slowed a bit in his recovery by an experimental trial at tight end and by a minor toe affliction which 
Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
But the team came back strong against some stiff competition on Saturday when it hosted Michigan State and won 5-3. The Spartans challenged the Irish in some singles matches, but were overcome by the aggressive doubles play of Susie kept him out of yesterday's prac­tice, but Jackson has continued to progress. 
"Milt Jackson has been a great addition to the team," said Cor­delli. "He's doing very well as a player, and he's also been a real leader for the team." 
Along with flankers Brown and Ward, and split ends Jackson, Miller and Eason, freshman Ray Dumas, Steve Alaniz and walk-on Brad Alge also are receiving a good look from the Irish coaching staff. 
While this unit has looked im­pressive for the most part in runn­ing patterns and hanging onto the football, Cordellis stresses that is is in other areas where improvement must come. 
"We're a long way from midseason form," said the first­year coach. "In an area such as run­blocking, we're not quite there. To get better we'll need more strength, more intensity, and we'll have to improve our concentration. If you don't have those, you get the men­tal mistakes. 
"But this is a talented group. They're all good athletes with good awareness and good instincts. They are going to do some good things." EXTRA POINTS Besides Miller's injury, the Irish were without the services yesterday of Joel Williams, Matt Dingens and Shawn Heffern because of minor ailments. 
Panther and Michelle Dasso and the duo of Mary Colligan and Izzy O'Brien. The third match of doubles was suspended due to rain. Senior Colligan, sophomore Dasso and senior O'Brien also captured the second, third and fourth singles respectively. 
Notre Dame continued its domination Sunday, when the Irish downed Eastern Michigan 6-3. It was a pleasant finish to a grueling weekend of tennis. 
"It finally all came together," says Gelfman. "The aggressiveness of our doubles teams was the key. Our number-one team of Panther­Dasso had the most aggressive match I've seen in a long time, and the number-two team of Colligan­O'Brien is like a rock for me. I can always count on them." 
Gelfman also was pleased with the play of the third doubles team consisting of junior JoAnne Biafore and freshman Natalie Illig. According to the coach, the couple has finally pulled it all together and used effective net play to outlast their Eastern Michigan opponents 2-6, 6-2, 6-3. 
The team now has a week layoff until it takes to the road to meet Western Michigan (April15), Ohio State (April 19) and Miami of Ohio (April20). 
"These next matches will be barn burners," adds Gelfman. "Nothing will be easy from here on out. But if we maintain the aggressive play and momentum we had this weekend, we should meet with positive results." 
• 



----~­

The Observer Tuesday, AprilS, 1986 -page 10 
~J 

i 
) 
'~ 
) 
\ 
) 
{ 
Brokaw 
continuedfrom page 12 

Regional, and were ranked third by UPI and fifth by AP in the final polls. 
Brokaw still stands 29th on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list with 1,001 points in 58 games for a 
17.3 average. 

He is perhaps best remembered, though, for scoring 25 points to lead the Irish in Notre Dame's 71­70 upset of UCLA in 1974 to end the 88-game winning streak of the 
Bruins. 

A native of Brunswick, N.J., Brokaw played five years in the NBA with Milwaukee, Cleveland 
and Buffalo. 

Irish freshman guard Mark Stevenson was surprised last night to find out that Brokaw was leaving Notre Dame. He had looked for-
More in the first round .•. 
Bookstore Tournament 
Today'a Garnes Stepan 1 

4:00 · See the Bungee In the Night v. Mary Has Big ... 
4:45 · You're Interesting I'm Interesting v. A Shlek, a Trojan & 3 ... 
5:30 ·Crew of the Enterprise v. Masters of Gash · 6:15-Much More Manhood v. 5 Seniors with Big Loads 
Stepan2 4:00-We Hate the World v. Sphinxter & 3 Other Orifices 
4:45 · Baskerville Holmes v. Unidentified Grace Defenders 
5:30 ·Third Time's a Charm v. Team Many Mar­loonies 6:15-We'd Be Good If Jim Pernas Was Here v. Hitler Youth 
Stepan3 4:00-4 Jerks & a Spurt v. Managerial Units 

4:45 · Fun with Small Rodent Stimulation v. A 
Wheel Chair & 4 Useless Limbs ... Stepan4 

4:00 · Painful Discharge v. Fighting Bohemian Rutabegas 4:45-The Lumpsters v. Auto Mechanics 
5:30 ·Jason & the Axe Wounds v. Southern Hoss & a Couple Yankees 6:15-No ... Budlights v. I've Been Hypnotized 
StepanS 

4:00 ·Blood, Sweat & Salamanders v. Cool Willie & His Boys 
4:45 
· Juice-Melster & the Furious Fornications 

v. 
Second Round Spectators 



5:30 -5 Guys Still Worse Than Tim Kempton v. Puff My Magic Dragon 
,... Special Rates~
Summer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
lY2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 


•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
Master Mini Warehouses 
Are you or someone you know...? 
sad  troubled sleep  
pessimistic  loss of appetite  
fatigued  poor concentration  
poor motivation  loss of enjoyment  

If two or more of these describes you or a friend, this workshop may be for you. 
THE COLOR BLUE (overcoming depression) 
All interested are welcome Tuesday, April 8 at 6:30-8:00 in room 316 of the Student Health Center. Sponsored by Counseline and Psych. Services Ctr.. (soon to be renamed. Watch for details) 
6:15 ·Josephus v. Barbed Wire & the Fences Stepan& 
4:00 ·The Ghurka Bags v. Long Duck Dong & the Neo-Maxi Zoom Dweebs 
4:45 • Margarita Hoops v. Who's Next 5:30-Belt Mistletoe Hung Low v. Muddy Whores & Harlots 
6:15 • Help! v. 5 More Basketball Players Who 
Won't Graduate from Memphis State BookstoreS 
4:00 • Falso Sense of Pride v. The Manhattan Jasper Transfers 
4:45 ·The Fell as v. Prime Beef 5:30-Facto Frolics v. The Men's Club Plus 1 
6:15 -4 Gringos & a Stump v. OD, 3 Throats & 
Some Dude Bookstore 10 
4:00 -1 Poorman & 4 Foreign Americans v. Vanilla Thunder 
4:45 ·Duke &the Dongs v. Now We Go to School 5:30-Tofu Chaka Khan v. G" A·s·H 
6:15 ·If We Lose It's Tim's Fault v. South Dining Hall Hot Hands 
Lyons11 4:00-We Are __ . Who Are v. Underdogs 
4:45 · Why Is Larry Bud Melon ... v. Dealers of Equal Tempered Chromatic __ _ 
5:30 ·Double Stuffs v. Kabbai 6:15-Capt. Kirk & 4 Guys with Lasers v. 4 Fat· boys & a Cheese Head 
Lyons12 
4:00 ·Vanilla Thunder v. Rasta Man Vibration 4:45-5 Marines Who Love to Shoot v. 15Will Get You20Crew 
5:30 · Faction Against Raising Tuition v. You See Us, What Us, How ... 6:15-Hung Over But Slow v. 4 People & a Short Fat Guy 
ward to working with Brokaw for three more seasons. 
"He's going to be missed a great deal next year," said Stevenson. "I really like him a lot. He talked to me when things were going bad for me this season. He understood the things I was going through, having played for Coach Phelps himself. 
"It's kind of saddening for me to see him leave, and I'm sure the rest of the fellas feel the same way, but it's a great opportunity for him. I think he really deserves a head coaching job." 
Brokaw, who earned his bachelor's degree in sociology from Notre Dame in 1980, should have a good amount of job security at lona. The New Rochelle, N.Y., school maintains a policy of not fir­ing its coaches, whatever the sport. 
Brokaw's wife Renee, who is pregnant with the couple's rhird child, remained in South Bend for the announcement. 

Men's tennis team splits matches 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
.Sports Writer 

Notre Dame had a busy tennis weekend which saw it add a win and a loss to its record, while ad­ding more experience which should prove very valuable to the develop­ment of Tom Fallon's young squad. 
On Saturday, the Irish had to battle not only Western Michigan but the elements as well. After two singles matches, the action had to be moved indoors to the ACC courts, but the change in environ­ment did not affect the Irish, as they thumped Western Michigan, 9-0. 
Fallon expressed great pleasure with his team's performance while pointing out that the score was a bit deceptive. 
"I thought we just played excep­tionally well," Fallon said. "Any time you beat a team as good as Western Michigan 9-0, you've real­ly accomplished something.' 
"We won some very close mat­ches, so the score seems a little wider than it really was. It looks like a blowout, but it really wasn't." 
Setting the tone for the Irish right off the bat was sophomore Dan Walsh, who recovered from an opening set loss to defeat Mike Kiewiet 4-6, 6-1, 6-4. The freshman parade took over at this point, as Brian Kalbas (6-4, 7-6), Tim Carr (7-5, 6-2), Tony Cahill (6-0, 6-0), and Dave Reiter (6-2, 6-2) registered victories before senior Joe Nelligan capped the singles competition with a 6-2, 6-1 trium­ph. 
The number-one doubles team of 
Walsh and Paul Daggas clawed its 
way to a 6-7, 6-3, 7-6 victory. Carr 
and Reiter teamed for a 3-6, 6-3, 6­
1 win, while Cahill and Nelligan 
combined for a 7-5, 7-6 victory. 
Sunday, the Irish got a little more badger than they could han-
Juniors and 
Sophomores 
in Engineering~ PhYsics~ 
Chemistry and Math. 
Earn Over $1000 A Month While Still In School! 
It's oart of the Navy's Nuclear Prooulsion Officer Candidate Program. And the money you can earn while still ln school is just the beginning! 
After graduation~ YOu will receive graduate level training valued at $30~000 and begin work as a technical manager with immediate authoritY and responsibilitY. This ts the onlY orogram of its kind in the world. 
To qualifY YOu must be between the ages of nineteen and twentv-slx~ be in good health and meet stringent academic requirements. 
A Navy·Engineering Programs Specialist will be on campus April 9 R 10, 1986 
For more information call toll-free 1-800-382-9404, Man-Wed, 8:30am-2om. 
------Lead the Adventure-------­
die, however, and dropped a 7-2 match to Wisconsin. Despite the loss, Fallon said his team had once again performed well. 
"I thought Wisconsin played an outstanding match," the Irish men­tor said. "We played pretty well ourselves, but they just did a little more. They are playing excellent tennis right now. They just beat Ohio State 5-4, and Ohio State is recognized as one of the top teams around so we have nothing to be ashamed of." 
Walsh lost the number-one singles match, 2-6, 7-5, despite playing well, especially in the se­cond set, according to Fallon. Kalbas and Carr also lost before Cahill got the Irish in the winner's column with a 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 win. Reiter followed with a 6-2, 7-5 vic­tory, but then Joe Nelligan dropped a very tough decision, 6-0, 2-6, 7-6. 
Wisconsin swept the doubles matches, including a particularly grueling 6-7, 7-5, 6-4 win by Tim Madden and Jim Schnider over Notre Dame's team of Cahill and Nelligan. 
The Observer Attention. 
sports writers 

!here will be a mandatory meeting for all current sports wnters and those Interested in becoming a sports writer We~nesday in the Little Theater at 8 p.m. Spring ass1gnments and other department business will be discussed. If you can't make it, please contact Dennis or one of the assistant sports editors. Thank you. 
Fallon said the loss to Wisconsin is, by no means, a discouraging one. 
"We played well, but small things were big," he said. "Walsh played well but he couldn't get over the hump and the number-six match (Nelligan and Schnider) w:1s a dif­ficult one to lose. 
"It's just a case of experience, and we have to go through these losses and hope they help us later on." 
Next up for the Irish is Ball State today. According to Fallon, that match will by anything but a picnic. 
"Ball State beat Wisconsin early in the year, 8-1, so that gives an in­dication of the type of team we will be facing," Fallon said. "(Wiscon­sin's) coach told me that his guys weren't playing well then, but Ball State is definitely a top-notch oppo­nent. There's no place for us to hide from teams like Ball State, Indiana State and Ohio State that are com­ing up." 
The Irish are now 12-6 for the season. Game time for Ball State today is 3 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Courts. 

Tuesday, AprilS, 1986-page 11 Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Cf!freR ,KJNN ld 

Cfltf#IN6 !JACK .t/ 
~'/:,/~
A~.,;/ 
\. 

Zeto Kevin Walsh 
.:.JDW DID YOUR Et):>k::SmRE TEAM DJ, DANN'r'? 

Giraffe evolution 
THE'r' CALLED THC:M­SELVE"S "tFVOU ~T 
us we: L.t S?~N l<lc 
lOUR RAVIOLI 1<1 rTY L..t rTcR. " 






Ti 

ACROSS 1 Rhyme scheme 5 Bose 9 TV time 
14 Lively dance 15 Yes­(ultimatum) 16 Miller's salesman 17 Anatomical 
tissue 18 Implore 19 Pome 20 Surgical 
aftermath 21 Andy Warhol e.g. 23 Certain 
song book 25 Jungle beast 26 Hawaiian 
hawks 27 Secret org. 28 Nibble 32 Disconcert 35 Villa-in 
Italy 37 Rink base 38 Nostalgic 
people 41 Gentle touch 42 Howard and 
Robert 43 Certain poet 44 Boil slowly 46 Burns or 
Gobel: abbr. 47 Copy 48 "Mary-

little lamb" 50 Nymphs 53 Playwright 56 Cuts off 58 Instrument in 
the symphony 59 Unemployed 60 Amazon 
cetacean 61 Ail 62 Vaticinator 63 Melody 64 Dear: Fr. 65 Conservative 66 Teak or teil 
DOWN 1 B.A. word 
2 Tree with tri­angular nuts 3 Fasten a 
nautical rope 4 He causes fear 5 Fathers 6 Film's Flynn 7 Take­
(snooze) 8 Cavaliers 9 Gr. philoso­
pher 10 Using a lasso 11 Urchir.s 12 Brewing item 13 Vane letters 22 Gaucho gear 24 Kind of base­

ball game 27 Literary work 35 Downbeat one 29 Not yet final 36 Flee to wed 
in law 39 A Gabor 30 Deeds 40 Dreamer 31 Occident 45 The Pequod 32 Horned vipers 47 Blood vessel 33 Pulsation 49 Valuable 34 Pay up violin 
Campus 
4(8/86 
50 Can. physician 51 Philanthropist 52 Part of a book 53 Plate 54 Function 55 Thought: pref. 57 Wise 58 Damone of song 

*12:15 p.m. -Movie, "Be Not Afraid," on non-violent civil disobedience, Center for Social Concerns. 
*
12:15 p.m. -SMC and ND Psychology Collo­quium, "Two Tests of the Crucial Assump­tions of Adolescent Egocentrism and a New Theoretical Perspective," by Professor Daniel 

K. 
Lapslev, Room 147 Moreau Hall ND. *3 p.m. -Tennis, ND vs. Ball State, Courtney Courts *3:30 p.m. --Reilly Lecture in Chemical Engineering, "Steady-State Multiplicity Features of Distributed Parameter Systems," by Professor Dan Luss, University of Houston, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall *3:30 p.m. -Computing Minicourse, Apple Works Spreadsheet, limit 6, Room 104 Com­puting Center. To register, call Betty at 239­5604 *4:30 p.m. -John a Lynch Lecture in Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Program, "Positive and Negative Regulation of Neuroblastoma mRNA by cAMP," by Dr. Marshall W. Nirenberg, Room 127 Nieuwland 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Baked Ham Cheese souffle Beef Bourguigon Corn dog Rolled Spanish Omelet Breaded baked fish · Ground cheddar beef with cheese sauce 
Tuna Muffin with cheese 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 

*6:30 p.m. -SMC Biology Dept. Guest Speaker, "Science Literacy: The Missing Link," by Dr. Jane Kahle, Purdue, Academy of Sciences Speaker of the Year, Carroll Hall *7 p.m. -Lecture, "Pregnancy -What is it Like to Be Pregnant?" by Dr. Nancy Madden, Haggar Parlor, sponsored by Sexuality Education Council 
*7 p.m. -World Hunger Coalition Lecture, Dr. Charles Wilber, ND, will speak on the bishop's Pastoral Letter on the Economy and its implications for the Third World, Center for Social Concerns *7:30p.m. -Movie, "Every Man for Himself," 1980, color, 87 minutes, Jean-Luc Godard, France, Annenburg Auditorium 
*8 p.m. -Lecture, slide show, "A Capetown Parish: The Struggle Against Apartheid," by Fr. Basil Van Rensburg, priest of the diocese of Capetown, South Africa, Center for Social Concerns 



I Tuesday, April 8, 1986 -page 12
SRorts
li 
11 
1' 
\ Brokaw takes head job at Iona
li
I '1 
I-'-By JEFF BLUMB Iona Athletic Director Rick Maz­Gillen left the Irish staff last Sports Writer zuto had narrowed his choice down August to accept the job of head
\ 
F 
u to three candidates: John Griffin, coach at Xavier. Gary Brokaw, Irish assistant head coach at Siena College; Dave Jim Baron andMattKilcullen are basketball coach the past six Magarity, an assistant at Iona, and the two remaining assistant seasons, will accept the head Brokaw. Mazzuto, who received coaches.H coaching job at Iona College late 
j 
approximately 80-90 applications "I'm very happy for Gary," said this morning, The Observer has 
Phelps. "He's earned the chance. learned. Brokaw, who also played His experiences made him a for Notre Dame, replaces Pat Ken­tremendously-valuable member of 
nedy, who resigned the post to our staff. He has seen it all. He had 
become head coach at Florida an obvious impact on our program State. in areas like recruiting, game Iona has scheduled a press con­
' l preparation and individual work
j 
I ference for 11 a.m. today to make with players." 
.~
\ the announcement of Brokaw's Brokaw ~s a member of Phelps' selection. first freshman class at Notre Dame "There's been a good foundation in 1971, playing for the Irish for 
laid at Iona by Jimmy (Valvano, three before skipping his
seasons 
who left for N.C. State after the senior season to turn pro. He earn­\t 1979-80 season) and Pat," said ed all-America honors his junior' \ . Brokaw. "Basically, I have to year, averaging 17.1 points per 
ll ~ 
Gary Brokaw

j revive the talent here and move for­game. ) ward." for the job, offered it to Brokaw That Notre Dame team, which also \) The Gaels, who play in the late yesterday. included John Shumate and Adrian Dantley, finished 26-3. The 1973-74 
~~ 
Metro-Atlantic Athletic Con­Brokaw, who worked primarily ference, were 14-15 this year under with the guards, became the top Irish placed third in the Mideast Kennedy after finishing 26-5 the assistant of Notre Dame head see BROKAW, page 10
previous season. coach Digger Phelps after Pete 
The Observer/Paul Pahorcsky 
Pat Collins (right) ofTheSnackers made four of his 21 shots as
lj ~ Tough Bookstore action continues 
H 
his team beat Chief Big Head and the Baals in Bookstore action yesterday. It took 84 shots by The Snackers to finally come out on 
By MIKE CARDINALE helped them to a 21-11 victory. from the field, and teammates Rich top. Mike Cardinale has more on yesterday's games in his story at 
\ I 
Sports Writer Bobb led the losers with five points. Whalen and Chris Campilii added left.
~ \ 
Tim Kempton shot 9-of-17 from four buckets apiece. Freshman sen­_Tough, physical play and close the field in leading The Embarrass­sation George Baldus' 11-of-16 games replaced many of the ing Stains to a shooting 17 led
'~ l hard-fought 21-18 and rebounds Women's tennis wins three, 
~ { weekend gags as Bookstore Basket­victory over Too Muck and Futch. Keenan Inmates II to a hard-fough ball XV continued yesterday. All The losers played most of the game 21-16 victory over King Ortega nd 
improves team record to 12-3 
four seeded teams playing yester­
the Four Seasons. Greg Ripple had day faced tougher than expected 7 baskets for the losers. tests as the random scheduling Bookstore A group of melodius muses from By TRISH SULLIVAN see the team get better as the 
system provided the fans with the chapel choir could not help Sports Writer weekend went on. Some of the
Basketball

unusually exciting first-round their team, 5 Screams from the 
losses were ones that could have games. XV Loft, against The Hammers, in The Notre Dame women's tennis gone either way, but the team is 
The tournament's top seed and 
what was unquestionably the team upped its record to 12-3 after learning a lot about each other and defending champion, Fun Bunch sweetestsounding game thus far. On a long weekend of action at the their ability to play."Finale, faced a tough Good No Go of the Screams, Dave Klos, express­Courtney Courts. But as the Irish The squad started the weekend a
with only four players, but sparked

team featuring three varsity defen­ed some of the frustration of losing head into the most difficult part of little rough on Friday with some 
sive backs, Troy Wilson, Marv by Mark Nigro's 10 points, they 
Bookstore games. their schedule they can look back sloppy play against Toledo. 
Spence and Jim Bobb. Good No stayed close throughout. "In three combined years we on this weekend as one that produc­Although Gelfman feels the Irish Go took an early 4-3 lead and trail­Of the other two seeds, Dan haven't scored enough points to win ed more than just three wins. took their opponent a little too 
ed by only three at the half. Fun Michelini paced Four Fags and A 
a game yet," he lamented. lightly, they came away with a 6-3 
Bunch wore them down in the Zahmbie past 5 Packages that the "Overall, the team's play was just victory.
second half, however, as Greg Postman Can't Deliver II by a 21 see BOOKSTORE, page 8 outstanding," commented Head see TENNIS, page 9
Dingens' 9-of-13 performance -12 margin. Micheline shot 7-of-15 Coach Michele Gelfman. "I could 


; 
i 
\ 
J 
1 ) 
j 
' 
Water Polo club wins tourney over weekend 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club held its annual Spr­
The game starts at 1 p.m. at Stepan Field. ing Invitational Tournament over the weekend at Rolfs Pete Aquatic Center. The Irish emerged as champions of the • two-day tournament by winning three games. 
Gegen

Friday night the team faced the seventh-ranked Armed with only six runners, the Women's Track Club Ramblers of Loyola (Chicago). Due to transportation placed seventh in the 10-team Manchester Invitational
Club Corner 

problems, Loyola did not field its complete team, and Saturday. Julia Merkel placed second in the 1500-meter Notre Dame easily won, 9-4. run and fourth in the 3000-meter run with times of 5:04 
Saturday morning Notre Dame defeated Cincinnati in team's contest against IUPU-Fort Wayne. The club is try­and 10:52, respectively. overtime, 12-11. This set the stage for Saturday night's ing to break the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Kathleen Lehman placed seventh in both the 1500 and game against Ohio State. Association's attendance record of 1500. This game the 800-meter runs. Anne Attea and Nancy Laughlin 
"We haven't beaten Ohio State and Cincinnati since against the 11th-ranked Mastadons is the team's final finished sixth and eighth respectively in the 5000-meter 1983," noted player-coach Mike Roberts. "But we played home game of the season. The game will be played in the run, and Laura Gidley took fifth in the long jump. well this weekend." ACC Pit at 7:30. This Saturday, the team will participate in the Hillsdale 
The match was close all the way, with the score tied aat Notre Dame will then defend its MIV A championship Invitational against top NAIA teams. the half, 8-8, and after the third quarter, 12-12. But in the this weekend at the University of Michigan. The Irish fourth quarter, the Irish built up a 16-14 lead on the have been given the second seed behind Wisconsin by • strength of Marty Watts' two goals. virtue of their two regular-season losses to the Badgers. 
In an exciting finish, Notre Dame was penalized with a If you are looking for something to do on the water minute left in the game, and the Buckeyes scored once in • under the great South Bend sun this weekend, the Rowing the man-advantage situation. But the Irish held the ball Club will be holding its second annual regatta. The races for the last 30 seconds to preserve the victory. At the Northwestern Rugby Tournament last weekend, will start at 9 a.m. at the Margaret Prickett Marine Park 
The club also fielded a "B" team which defeated Pur­the Rugby Club showed the Chicago Rugby Union why it on the St. Joseph River in Mishawaka. due on Friday, 13-10, and lost to Louisville Saturday, 10-is a serious contender for the Midwest Championships by Steve Blaha, racing commissioner for the club, said 
7. shutting out all three opponents. that nine teams will be racing in 11 divisions. The team will participate in one more tournament this The A side destroyed the University of Chicago grad The club trained in Austin, Tex., over spring break, in 
season, April11-12 at Ohio State. school, 46-0. Gary Flanagan had the hat trick and Tim preparation for the spring season. The lightweight boat Brannigan scored two tries for the Irish. of the men's varsity team has been especially impressive, 
• Steve LaChance had the only try and Kevin Whelan defeating Texas and Minnesota in an informal race in made the conversion as the B side downed Northern Il­·Austin. linois B side, 6-0. And the C side also beat Northern Il­
Before break the Volleyball Club split a pair of mat­linois, 12-0. • ches. Without its middle blocker, Mark Trautman, the "Our serums played well," said LaChance on the three team lost to Purdue in five games on March 18. The shutouts. "They won most of the serum downs and line And finally, the Wom~'s Softball Club has yet to play following day the Irish dumped Western Michigan in outs." this spring, having four games cancelled last week. But four games. The team will play its only home match of the spring this week the team travels to Purdue for a game tomor­
Tonight the entire campus is encouraged to attend the this Saturday against the South Side Irish of Chicago. row and to Valparaiso for a tournament this weekend. 


