
Financial aid -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 60 Tuesday, December 2 1986 
Low student interest cancels 


Sikh terrorists kill total of32 Hindus 
Reagan told by senators to get facts, take initiative 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON From 
friend and foe alike, President 
Reagan is getting the same ad­
vice: take the initiative and get 
all the facts out about the 
tangled dealings by members 
of his administration that sent 
arms to Iran and money to Con­
tras. 
"He needs to get on top of it," Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said on Sunday. "It's not going to go away." 
What steps Reagan takes could determine whether he comes out of this crisis able to govern effectively or whether the nation will watch another president struggling to survive a controversy he allowed to get out of control. 
Reagan was back at the White House after a Thanksgiv­ing holiday at his California ranch. He returned vowing to "do whatever we have to to get to the bottom of this." 
The Sunday interview shows on the television networks reflected the high degree of skepticism and concern among Republicans and Democrats about what has been disclosed so far. 
And while most members of Congress were reluctant to speculate on who might have known more than they now are admitting, two Republicans suggested that Vice President George Bush should have known. 
"I don't know," said Richard Lugar when asked if he thought Bush knew. "I presume he should have known," the Re­publican senator from Indiana added on "Meet the Press." Lugar is chairman of the Sen­ate Foreign Relations Commit­tee. 

spring semester in Jerusalem 
Associated Press 
By JOE MARKE Staff Reporter 

Lack of student interest is responsible for suspended operation of the 1987 Spring semester of Notre Dame's foreign study program in Jerusalem, according to Isabel Charles, director of foreign study programs. 
"Only three students signed up. We need at least ten or more students to par­ticipate in order to run the program," she said. 
Charles said the program will be reopened next Fall if the minimum enrollment of ten students can be met. 
Charles blames the low en­rollment on a variety of fac­tors. The main reason, she says, is that students aren't aware of the program, which began only last Fall. 
"I think what it takes with every program is students coming back to say what a good experience it was," said Charles. 
Another factor contribu­ting to the low enrollment may be fear of terrorism in the area, Charles said. "There may be some con­cerned with terrorism, al­though there has actually 
see ISRAEL, page 3 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Reagan reiterates he knew nothing of 
Contra connection 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan ordered his National Security Council staff Monday not to conduct diplomatic, mil­itary or intelligence operations while a review board inves­tigates the agency's role in the secret sale of arms to Iran and 

:'CJ the diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels. 
";:; Asserting that "I want all the facts to come out," the presi­dent also said he would wel­come appointment of a special prosecutor if recommended by the Justice Department to in­vestigate possible wrongdoing. 
And he reiterated that he had known nothing about the secret transfer of up to $30 million to the Nicaraguan rebels, known as Contras. In a statement to his press spokesman in response to questions from reporters, Reagan said: "You can tell them flat out that I had no knowledge whatsoever of it until (Attorney General) Ed Meese briefed me on it Monday afternoon" -Nov. 24. 
Gripped in the gravest crisis of his administration, Reagan met with a three-member review board headed by former Republican Sen. John Tower of Texas he charged with the task of investigating NSC staff operations. 
Meanwhile, the Senate Intel­ligence Committee went be­hind closed doors to begin its own investigation of the Iran­Contra affair. 
A committee member, Sen.
The Observer /Fred Dobie 
Thomas Eagleton, D-Mo., said

Huddling up former national security ad­viser Robert McFarlane tes­
Senior Elizabeth Hoppe shares a coke and a smile with Mike tified under oath during the af­Lattanzi, a graduate student, in the newly-renovated Huddle. The ternoon.
new facilities, including an ice cream shop, ethnic food counters and the Huddle Deli, opened Monday in LaFortune. 
White House spokesman 

NEW DELHI, India -Hindus rioted and Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi pledged "tough and strong action" against Sikh terrorists Monday, the day after four gunmen pulled Hindus off a bus in Punjab and killed 24 of them. 
Police said Sikh militants killed eight more people in Pun­jab state Monday. 
Sikh extremists, who want in­dependence for Punjab, killed 14 Hindus in a similar bus hijacking July 25. 
Paramilitary troops were or­dered to patrol New Delhi during a general strike called for Tuesday by an opposition Hindu political party. Strikes also were scheduled in the Hindu-dominated states of Haryana and Kashmir next to Punjab, which has a Sikh majority. 
Shops were closed Monday by general strikes in towns and cities throughout Punjab. Clashes between Sikh and Hindu youths were reported in J allundhar, but police said no serious injuries resulted. 
About 3,000 Hindus rioted and threw stones on the edge of New Delhi. Police fired shots into the air and lobbed tear gas to scatter the crowds. 
Officers said they arrested 100 people for trying to block traffic on the main ring road around the capital. 
"There is a lot of tension in the city, but we are keeping a watch on things," said Police Commissioner Ved Marwah, who prohibited public gather­ings for four days. 
Near Parliament, police hauled away 300 supporters of the opposition Janata Party who held a non-violent protest in violation of the ban. They were released later. 
The lower house of Parlia­ment was adjourned briefly he-cause members shouted "We want action!" and demanded dismissal of Home Minister Buta Singh, the chief law en­forcement official. 
Gandhi appealed in Parlia­ment for all Indians to "be careful and hold tempers down." He said "a concrete plan" of strong action had been devised to combat Sikh ex­tremism, but did not elaborate. 
Larry Speakes said the admin­istration "has raised no objec­tion" to key figures in the case testifying before Congress. However, he said information that constitutes advice to the president "could come under the claim of executive privilege" and might be with­held. 
White House and congres­sional leaders debated a pro­posal from Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas for the president to call Congress back to town to form a Watergate-style investigative committee. 

Reagan said the idea was "under discussion and there's been no decision yet. But we want to work with the Congress." 
At the White House, Reagan gave marching orders to the review board composed of Tower, former Democratic senator and onetime Secretary of State Edmund Muskie, and Brent Scowcroft, who was na­tional security adviser in the Ford administration. 
Promising full cooperation irom the White House and all agencies of the executive branch, Reagan told the com­mission: 
"I want to assure you and the American people that I want all the facts to come out -about learning of a possible transfer of funds from the sale of arms to Iran, to those fighting the Sandinista government. . .. And we'll continue to share the actions we take and the infor­

mation  we  obtain  with  the  
American  people  and  the  
Congress."  

l 
r 
f 
r r 
r 
-----~ 
The Observer 
In Brief 
The Student Senate has approved plans for issuing "I'm Driving" pins, entitling their bearers to free soda as long as they agree to abstain from alcoholic beverages. Off­Campus President Race Thoman said The Commons, the Senior Alumni Club, Bridget McGuire's Filling Station and Chips would most likely participate in the program. -The Observer 

Saint Mary's economics professor Jerome McElroy was a participant in the first "Interoceanic Workshop on the Sustainable Development of Small Islands,'' held recently in Puerto Rico. The specialists' areas of expertise included economics, demographics, marine and terrestrial biology, and planning. Administrative observers from the U.S. Congress and the United Nations Development Program, as well as representatives from Malta, Yugoslavia, Japan, and China were also present. -The Observer 
Murder U. A Hollywood film producer is turning the Purdue and Indiana campuses into sets for a new movie to be called "Murder U." The low-budget effort, $1.5 mil­lion, will star Clint Walker. -The Observer 
At Monday night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance, Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs and college relations, presented the results of the student government survey. The most common concerns regarded campus ministry, information about senior com­prehensive requirements, and social functions for those under the age of 21. Jeanne Heller, student body president, announced student government will circulate a petition to open the library at 10 a.m. on Sundays. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
Collection of Aerobathon pledges will be taken today from 4 to 6 p.m. and Wednesday night from 7 to 9 in the student government offices. The first 75 people to turn in $5 or more will receive at-shirt. Proceeds go to the United Way. -The Observer 
Concert band auditions will be held today and Wednes­day. Interested students should sign up in the band office in Washington Hall. For more information, call 239-7136. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will present an exhibit of recent paint­ings and prints by William Tourtillotte and Julie Wroblewski from today through Friday, December 19. Both artists have exhibited throughout the midwest. The public is invited to an opening reception for the artists will be held Wednesday night from 7 to 9 in the gallery. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. This exhibit, which is open Monday through Friday from 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m., is sponsored by both the Department of Art, Art History and Design and the Student Activities Board. -The Observer 
The First Annual Respect Life Mass and Dinner is being hosted by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Group on Saturday. The 5 p.m. mass will be held at Sacred Heart Church with Bishop John D' Arcy as chief celebrant and homilist. The dinner will be held afterwards with Deputy Assistant Attorney General Douglas Kmiec speaking. For more information, call Brendan Kelly at 288-6578. -The Observer 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival talent show will be held in February. All students interested in assisting pro­duction, lighting, and technical operation, may contact Esther Ivory at 283-2905. -The Observer 


Weather 
No, it only looks like purple rain be­cause you are still in a purple haze after your break. There is a 90 percent chance of rain Tuesday with highs in the low 40s. Lows Tuesday night in the low 30s with a 60 percent chance of rain mixed with sleet, changing to light snow or flurries after midnight. Occasional flurries Wed­nesday with highs in the mid 30s. 



Design Editor .................. Alice Kroeger VIewpoint Layout.............. Heidi Traxler De1lgn Aaalstant .••.•••........• Mike Mojica Accent Copy Editor.............. Lisa Young Layout Staff .•..•...•....•.••..... Lisa Tugman Accent Layout...................... Carey Gels Typesetter ....•.•••.•.......•••.•..•••• Pat Clark Typist................................. Colleen Foy .................................. Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor .............. Laurine Megna News Editor ......•........••. Mary Heilmann SMC Day Editor ••... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor....................... Karen Webb Ad Design ..................... Sharon Emmite Sporll Copy Editor............... Pete Gegen Photographer.••.~ .••.•••.••.•...... Fred Dobie VIewpoint Copy Editor ....•••.... Bob White 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 2 


Technicolor in old movies makes some people see red 
I can't understand why so many people are upset about this business of coloring black and white films. 
This new process will enable us to see classic oldies like "It's A Wonderful Life" in vibrant technicolor. It's a miracle of modern technolo­gy. 
I'm all for technology and progress. After all, technology and progress brought us color movies in the first place. Imagine the initial impression on the 1930's audience of "Gone With the Wind." Color movies became the rage, black and whites became a sad remnant of the distant past. 
Why watch Jimmy Stewart wander through drab, black and white Bedford Falls when you could see Atlanta collapse in a fury of red and orange flames? Why see Humphrey Bogart say "Here's lookin' at you, kid" in the gray, un­colored setting of Casablanca? 

Those who protest the idea of colorization should be thankful for its implementation. God willing, we'll get all those embarassing oldies switched over to glorious color before our grandchildren have the chance to laugh at the primitive form of black and white cinema. 
Recently I read that the same computer process involved in colorization can add much­needed features to those outdated actors of the archaic black and whites. 
Now computer wizardry can put facial hair here and remove a ba~d spot there. Santa might look interesting with a red toupee in "A Miracle on Thirty-Fourth Street." We could remove Clark Gable's mustache and give it to Gary Cooper. I always thought Claudette Colbert would look good with a beard. Why not? 
Why indeed? Now that we're coloring old films, why don't we change them completely? We could modernize the set of "High Noon" by stashing a few microchip skyscrapers behind the dusty Western buildings. We could let King Kong ravage Paris instead of New York by replacing the Empire State Building with the Eiffel Tower. I just can't comprehend why some people can't see the marvelous thing computer technology has brought us. 
I guess there's some flimsy sentimental rea­son. Something like the importance of preserv­ing the original whose greatness elevated the movie industry to the position it holds in popular culture. Or the thin rationale that black and white oldies are the sole representatives of the early era of American film. Such small benefits can be sacrificed in the face of inevitable prog­ress. 
I am not, however, unsympathethic to old­fashioned types who remain stubbornly devoted to black and white movies. I'm willing to sell an old machine I haven't needed ever since I became an avid proponent of the wonders of technology. 
This ancient device will enable misguided film sentamentalists to view their beloved oldies in their original, lifeless form. 
How someone could enjoy the boring, gray versions of the early classics is confusing to me. This machine will deprive its users of the new phantasmagoric wonder colorization makes possible. 
As it will defy the inevitability of technology, it will be laughed at as the only object that still makes the old movies look the way they were. As holiday movies are being changed over to color, I'm making my machine available for a low price during the Christmas season. 
Ever heard of a black and white television? 

Eye Exams

ProfessionalVISion 
Large Selection -of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 


20-,o DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  

VOLUNTEER 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 . 8 • 7
Come meet the 
SUMMER 

executive director of the International Special Olympics on 
~-~ 

Wednesday, December 3, 1986 at 6:30 pm on -1lllllr the second floor of 
LaFortune -­

Notre Dame Lounge. li1f.. 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS GAMES'· 

Find out what you can do to help these special athletes from 65 countries realize a special dream. Be a student host, a friend, a translator, a guide, a coach, a supporter, a driver: Notre Dame­SMC is a small place to host such a big event. 
WE NEED THE HELP OF EVERYONE WHO PLANS TO BE AT NOTRE DAME FROM JULY 30 -AUGUST 8, 1987 Office of International Student Affairs: 239-5243 



The Observer 
Tuesday, December 2 1986-page 3 
Back to the books 
Sophomore Stewart Garcia joins other Notre Dame students in some post-turkey, pre-finals studying in Memorial Library. With Christmas break not even three weeks away, computer rooms and study lounges across campus will also be filling up very shortly. 
FINDING AN APARTMENT 
IN MANHATTAN TAKE~ 




THE RIGHT EDUCATION 
Get afree copy of "Manhattan Moves"­
the insider's guide to finding an affordable 
apartment in Manhattan. 
To welcome potential new residents to the city, and dispel some myths about housing in New York, we have published a book called "Manhattan Moves". It's the ultimate insider's guide to apartment hunting in the Big Apple. 

"Manhattan Moves" helps you set your sights on the right type of apartment and location. It takes you on atour of the city's neighborhoods, introduces you to the available housing, gives you vital facts about transportation, housing laws, renting, sharing, and much more. 
The book gives you inside advice on actually finding the apartment you've targeted. It helps you find the hottest listings, tells you how to canvas, and how to select abroker. 
Send for afree copy of 
ll\1ns111er'sgu111e ~ tin6\IJA ·· 

"Manhattan Moves" today. It won't 
an attol'ltab\e IJII'\mel\\ IR ~-tan
guarantee you aManhattan apart­
ment, but 1t will definitely get you 
"moving" in the right direction. 

r--------------------------------1 
I TO: MANHATTAN MOVES MILFORD MANAGEMENT,I 1271 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020 
I Send me acopy of "Manhattan Moves", The Insider's Guide to finding an I Apartment in Manhattan-free without cost or obligation. 
I Your Name-----------------------­1 School _______________________ 
1 Address-----------------------­City------------State _______ Zip ____ 
1 Home Address----------------------­1 City ____________State _______ Zip ____ 
Phone No. __________ Or Call Toll Free 1(800) 247-4041 
$1 investment could return $100 in ND's Mock Stock Market game 
By CAROLYN GILLESPIE Staff Reporter 
Invest $1 with the hopes of winning $100 in a low-risk, low­cost chance to learn about Wall Street investments. 
Play the Notre Dame Finance Club's Mock Stock Market, which began on No­vember 17 and will run until March 13. An executive com­mittee headed by senior finance majors Jim Vizzini and Erin Jilek is in charge of this year's game, which is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty. 
"The main objective of the game is to gain hands-on expe­rience and a knowledge of how the stock market works at no risk," said Vizzini. "It is a great opportunity to learn about various types of invest­ments, especially for those without any type of business background," he said. 
For a $1 entry fee, which will be collected at a later date, each entrant is given a Cash Management Account with $100,000. This money is auto­matically invested into a tax­able money market fund ear­ning a fixed yield of 8%. 
Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and options may be bought and sold during the market hours of 8:30 a.m to 4:30 p.m., with the purchase or sale price for any security trade being the last closing price reported by the Wall Street Journal for the previous day. 
Enrollment and trade forms are located on the second floor of Hayes-Healy in front of the Finance Office. Trade forms will be collected on a daily basis, and enrollment is allow­able any time during the game's running. A maximum of 250 portfolios may enter, with one portfolio per person or team. 
The portfolio with the best 


Israel 
continuedfrom page 1 
been no problem in the area. 
"Most students are not familiar with the Holy Land. It is another world," she said, adding, "once students begin 
hearing  from  students,  they  
will become aware."  
The  13  students  who  have  

participated in the program since its beginning have ex­pressed satisfaction with the 
Anti-Violence Activist 
Cenler lor Teaching Non-Violence & NCTY lull-time stall. Lodging & $400/mo. Research on aggression, publishing & lobbying against violence in TV, film, war toys, sports, erotica, etc. Non-violent films. Next to U Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. 
P.O. BoK 2157, Champaign IL 61820 

Don't let 
your next test 
bowl you 

over. 
Get Stanley H. Kaplan to be your quarterback. 
For nearly 50 years, Kaplan's test-taking techniques and educational programs have helped over 1 million students boost their scoring power and test confidence. 
So if youre going up against the SAT, LSAT, GMAT, MCAT, GRE, NTE, CPA, or others, go with the team that knows how to win. Kaplan. 
!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DON'T COMPETE WITH cALL ToDAy ! A KAPLAN STIJDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. YOU CAN START South Bend, IN 46637 IHHEDI ATEL Y. Phone 219/272--135 
after-tax return on their initial $100,000 investment will win the first prize of $100. A second prize of $50 and a $25 third prize will also be awarded. 
"The difference between this year's game and those in the past is a software package that was donated by a well-known and well-respected brokerage firm," said Vizzini. "This software will be used on the IBM PC and takes into account commtsstons, taxes, accrued interest and dividends," he said. 
The information from the trade orders are input by the committee at the end of each week. 
According to Jilek, the Mock Stock Market "is more com­prehensive this yP-ar than in the past because it is running for a longer span of time. The idea is to hold various investments over a longer period of time rather than just practicing pure market speculation." 
academic quality of the courses and the excellent op­portunity for growth in their understanding of Middle East problems, according to Charles. 
"It is an ideal experience to go there," she said. 
While open to all undergradu­ates, the program has offered special appeal to students majoring in theology, govern­ment, history, and the classics, she said. 
Students interested in par­ticipating in the program during the 1987-88 acedemic year should inquire at the Foreign Study Program Office, 420 Administration Building. 
The Observer Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 4 
North building air resupply wing for Nicaraguan rebels, officials say 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senior Reagan administration offi­cials knew that a now-fired White House aide was building an American-manned air resupply wing this year for the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, ac­cording to government sources. 

Lt. Col. Oliver North, dis­I missed last week for what the administration says was hisI role in diverting to the Coritras 
r 
I 
as much as $30 million in Iranian arms sale proceeds, ar­ranged the purchase of a five­plane air force and delivery of military supplies to the Con­tras, said the sources, who in­~ 
sisted on anonymity. An administration official said an internal White House
t 
review of the Contra resupply operation has found that ther Iranian payments were used to pay for the air wing. 
North's role in both the Con­tra resupply operation and the Iranian arms deal raises ques­tions about what President Reagan and other top advisers knew about the Iran-Contra connection. 
U.S. government officials, familiar with the North opera­tion, said that although the Iranian-Contra link was a closely held secret inside the White House, North's manage­ment of the air operation was known to officials in the State Department, Pentagon, CIA and the National Security Council. 

"Everyone knew something was going on down there and that Ollie (North) was doing it," one official said. 
In explaining North's firing from the National Security Council staff last Tuesday, At­torney General Edwin Meese said only North "knew precise­ly" about the Iran-Contra con­nection and his boss, national security adviser John Poindex­ter, who resigned, "did know that something of this nature was occurring." 
But congressional inves­tigators have begun examining how an operation as large as the Contra air resupply mis­sion, based at El Salvador's Ilopango military airport in clear view of U.S. military ad­visers, could have been funded from Iranian arm sales without 
Workers continue to build concrete wall around Soweto 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -A concrete wall is being built around parts of Soweto. The government said Sunday the barrier would not enclose the entire black township, but workers building the wall contradicted this. 
Construction began last week, but there was no official announcement. 
Andriana Andersen, a spokesman for the government Bureau for Information, said the wall was designed to block children and animals from run­ning onto a major highway which curves around an area of Soweto called Diepkloof. 
She said the wall would not enclose the entire township, which covers 38 square miles near Johannesburg and is home to about 1.7 million blacks. She said the wall so far extends several hundred yards and is about 7 feet high. 

The Sunday Star, an indepen­dent English-language newspa­per, quoted workmen at the site as saying they were told the wall was meant to enclose the entire township. 
Three black townships around the Indian Ocean city of Port Elizabeth have been fenced off by barbed wire for months, with access to the townships possible only through checkpoints manned by the security forces. 
,\)e'· . -·. Erasaaas Books
~(\· 'i dill I:' 

'"'\) \O b,.-~ T 1027 E. Wayne 
oO(\ _. 1?!,:"J Tues • Sun, ooon • 6 ~ ···' -1 block lOUth of Jefferson & Eddy 232-8444 U...ti a_..,......NobM.pt.-w.._..... 
Do youwant a fun job? 
e Do you have a warped sense of humor? 
e Do you like to make and handle money? e Are you efficient? e Are you a frosh or soph? 

If so please call Mo at 234-0982 to set up an interview for field hockey manager. 
Reagan and other top officials knowing. 
When Congress, in October 1984, banned U.S. officials from "directly or indirectly" aiding the Contras militarily, North turned to outside inter­mediaries to handle many of the tasks for the supply opera­tion. They included retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, retired Army Maj. Gen. John Singlaub and conser­vative activist Robert Owen. 
The air resupply operation came to light Oct. 5 when an American-manned C-123K cargo plane was shot down over southern Nicaragua while flying guns to the Contras. Two Americans were killed and one crewman, Eugene Hasenfus, is now a prisoner of the leftist Nicaraguan government. 
Documents recovered from the plane and interviews with principals show that the llopango operation was a major resupply effort, involv­ing more than 100 flights dating back to early 1986. Reagan secretly authorized U.S. arms 

sales to Iran in January. 
§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
~ ~ §  ,, .... I _ /J (' ~ \.11 Basement of  Open Monday § thru Saturday ~ 12:30.5:30 §  
~ §  1fr/. offon Boutonierres & Corsages for this weekend  ~ §  
L  all corsages & bouts must be ordered two days in advance ~ FOR FASTFR SFRVICE PLACE OTHER ORDERS EARLY §~~~<.t:/>~.Q>~~.q;~<q>~~,O">~~~~~~..q-.~~~·  

ULLERY INK 

WORD PROCESSING DESK TOP PUBLISHING 
We will do term papers and theses at reasonable prices 
for more information call 219-272-0880 
eU1 frofl'l the ~'I . ~ H''I. Whts 
I'm Mary Beth. 
I have joined the styling team at The Knights 
men's haircutting 

and hair care. Co,.e help me make my career a succes 272-0312/272-8471 54533 Terrace Lane 
(across &omMartin's) 

'' Careers in International Business'' 
Wednesday, December 3 
4:15 room 122 Hayes-Healy 
Speaker: Mr. Walter J. O'Connor Partner, Peat Marwick and Mitchell 
All are welcome. 





View~oint 
Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 5 
P.O. Box Q 
Preservation of human life is our duty 
Dear Editor: 
On Dec. 6, the first annual Respect for Life Mass and Dinner will be held on the Notre Dame campus. I encour­age all of you to attend and ·to support these significant events at the Univer­sity. 
The respect for human life from the moment of conception to the time of death is the responsibility of all of us. It is important that we take the occa­sion of this Mass and dinner to reflect upon this issue and to re-commit our­selves to the protection and preserva­tion of this gift from God. We can do no less than to preserve what is most sacred and most human. 
Let us join together as the Notre Dame family on Dec. 6 to celebrate human life and our commitment to it. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President, University of Notre Dame 
Everyone must respect holiness of life 
Dear Editor: 
I wish it were possible for me to be present for your celebration at Euc­harist and dinner of the sacredness of all life on Dec. 6. Although a long­standing commitment will have me in Atlanta, Georgia on that day, I shall be with all of you in spirit as you celebrate. 
At Saint Mary's College, we are profoundly aware of the Catholic and the Holy Cross traditions about the holi­ness of life. These traditions are founded on the life and teaching of Jesus about life, best summarized, I think, in the words of Jesus: "I have come so that they may have life and have it to the full." John 10:10. 
Know that the efforts of your group to focus the attention of our commun­ities on the sacred character of all life, unborn and born, is a welcome reminder to us to continue our search for ways to affirm the commitment of Saint Mary's to a deep and lasting respect for life. 
Dr. Mary Feeley, the director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's, will bring to you and your group my per­sonal greetings on the Dec. 6, the feast of Saint Nicholas, a saint who has long symbolized the tradition's love for life, especially the life of the young. At Saint Mary's, we shall be remembering also that the weekend honors our patron­ness, Mary, the Mother of Jesus. 
William H. Hickey Saint Mary's President 
Everyone encouraged to attend celebration 
Dear Editor: 
The Right to Life is sponsoring a mass and dinner Dec. 6. 

We have worked very hard in prepar­ing for this Mass and dinner. I can't imagine that the Notre DameSaint Mary's community isn't ready to show their support for life. We urge everyone to attend the mass and offer prayers for life with us. And we hope many will come to the dinner and meet faculty and townspeople who have actively worked to fight the great evil of abor­tion. 
Bishop D'Arcy is coming to say the Mass, and our speaker for the dinner is the United States Assistant Deputy Attorney General. Prof. Douglas Kmiec is another great speaker that has been lined up, too. 
It will be embarrassing if the turnout is small for this will suggest that this community is apathetic in its commit­ment to defending the lives of innocent babies in the womb. We really need stu­dents to turn out in large numbers and buy tickets today in the dining hall ­their last chance to· obtain tickets. 
The Mass will be at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church, and the dinner will be in the North Dining Hall at 6:30 p.m. on Dec. 6. Student tickets are $8, faculty tickets are $10 (call 5825 for reserva­tions). 
Janet Smith Kris Murphy NDISMC Right to Life 
Write to P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Administrator avoided questions on policy 
Dear Editor: 
I am the Nicaragua student who was told to "sit down and shut up" during Sandinista Vice-President Ramirez' visit to Notre Dame. Luckily for me he did not bring along the "turbas divinas" or "divine mobs," as Presi­dent Ortega calls them, to beat me up for disagreeing with the government. It should be said that I was congrat­ulated and helped on by some of those present. As expected, Ramirez dis­missed all questions about policy as ex­aggerations or lies. I will not take on his warped version of events in Nicaragua because it was obvious that every question posed to him by the stu­
. dents was inquiring about the veracity of his statements. Suffice to say that the Sandinistas have not delivered any of the promises made to the OAS in 1979. The elections held were no better than the frauds of the Somozas; political pluralism is paid lip service but the reality is a one party system. The free press began to be destroyed with the shutdown of the newspaper "Pueblo" in 1980, long 


General Board  
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy  Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker  Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll  
News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz  Advertising Design Manager... Mary Carol Creadon  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer·  Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby  Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan  
slty of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the  Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan  OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone  
policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately  Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby  Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann  
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of  Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten  Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton  
the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of  News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski  Controller ........................................ Alex VonderHaar  
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free  Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt  
expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  

Ihe Observer 
before Contra time. The Church in Nicaragua is divided and the higher number of priests today is made up of those who subscribe to liberation the­ology, which has no conflict with man being made subservient to the state. These are specifically imported priests to train others in their views and ul­timately engulf the hierarchical Church, led by Cardinal Obando y Bravo who is still the most popular man in Nicaragua. 
It is not surprising that Ramirez would call those who oppose his gov­ernment Somocistas; under the San­dinismo banner you are either friend or foe. Ironically, it is Ramirez who has the best Somocista credentials, which cannot be said of any of the Contra leaders Calero, Cruz and Robelo. His apologetics to the Somozas in the news­paper "Poliedro" are still well remem­bered in his hometown of Masatepe as an old Masatepeno lawyer told me just recently. 
Ramirez did not deny what I said about his parents and himself, he said that he had not come to discuss his fam­ily, but this may have been too subtle for the reporter present there that day. My conscience is at ease for I know I have told the truth; I have no fear. 
Quote of the day 
"The business of everybody is the business of nobody." 
Thomas Macaulay (1800-1859) 

Founded November3, 1966 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---------~---------------­






Accent 

ROBIN SQUYRES features writer 

Tucked away in the basememt of the Administration Building, the tiny Office of Financial Aid quietly processes thousands of forms and appropriates millions of dollars each year. Two-thirds of the Notre Dame student body make use of some kind of finan­cial aid, and a great majority of these students are processed through this office. 
Amazingly enough, for the amount of money that is han­dled, the Office of Financial Aid is essentially a system of manual filing; there is only limited com­puter assistance. Regardless, this office can provide the most up-to-date financial information needed to set up a financial plan for any student demonstrating monetary need. 
The staff must serve as coun­selors, public relations officers and finance experts and must stay on top of all new legislation that may change the funds they receive and the qualifications necessary to distribute them. 
They try very hard to keep a "personal touch" in the often confusing sphere of financial aid. 
"I see tlnancial aid as both an art and a science," says Joe Rus­so, director of the Office of Fin­ancial Ald. "We try to use com­passion and understanding...rather than just formulas and boxes." 
Russo put forth a little-known fact, "The University's top fundraising priority is under­graduate scholarships." Finan­cial Aid has not always enjoyed this status. In fact, it has taken years ofbitter struggle by faculty, trustees, student government and alumni to achieve this posi­tion. 
As Russo explains it, tlnancial aid is essential to the unique di­versity that Notre Dame's student body demonstrates. "Our ability to offer tlnancial aid is one ofour best means to attract the top stu­dents." 
Notre Dame's relatively high cost can frighten away excellent potential students. Notre Dame's student body then suffers, be­cause its diversity is narrowed by monetary qualitlcations. A bit of its unique flavor is dulled with every student who rejects Notre Dame as a choice because they think they cannot afford it. 
The Office of Financial Aid has "a very simple goal. Get people into the system," says Russo. To get Into the system, Russo en­courages people to come in with questions, for part of this goal is to explain the confusing tlnanclal aid process. 
The staff will explain exactly what tlnancial aid is, determine qualitlcation and explain the dif­ferent kinds of aid that are avail­able and the pitfalls involved, "rather than just what goes in box 23A." 

$$The buck 
ROBIN SQUYRES termine need on the basis of the trated on those who need it features writer above qualitlcations. rather than freely distributed. The Office of Financial Aid is 
Financial Aid: the words bring not the primary policymaker in New legislation to mind visions of greedy gov­the area of student tlnancial aid, A few weeks ago major legis­ernment oftlcials gleefully entic­however. Since the federal gov· lation was passed by Congress ing innocent college students to ernment funds many of the that will again affect student aid sign their savings away for edu­scholarship and loan programs, programs. The "Higher Educa­cational loans. Thereafter, the the goverment determines the tion Amendments of 1986" con­victims are hunted down for the qualitlcations for those itwill give tain good news and bad news. impossible payments until their money to. The good news: the maximum dying day. Scenes of hundred­amount a student can borrow page forms, which, if even one The Reagan myth has increased. The bad news: box is missed, will be sent back It is often heard that Reagan eligibility has once again been with a huge REJECT stamped has drastically reduced student reduced. across the cover become com­aid, but this is actually a com­This legislation, as well as 
mon nightmares. plete myth. The truth: tlrst, other governmental regulations, 
It doesn't have to be this ugly. Reagan has restricted eligibility. sets the ground rules for the Of­You don't have to wander Before the Reagan administra­fice of Financial Aid to follow. through the halls of tlnancial aid tion, Rockefeller's son could After identifying a student as 
in aimless confusion, smashing have gotten government aid for qualified for aid, the financial your nose on every governmen­schooling. Rather than institute staff determines what the stu­tal door you try to open. You, an expensive selective program dent's family can realistically too. can enjoy the benetlts of tln­determining need eligibility, past contribute, and then attempts to ancial aid. administrations have allowed assist with the remaining ex­
money to flow restriction-free. penses. 
Here is a behind-the-scenes They did not anticipate the tre· look at the powers which influ­mendous increase ofdemand for Gifts and scholarships ence the aid available to stu­governmental student aid. Con­There are three general types dents, and an outline of the mec­sequently, the originally cheap, of aid: gifts, loans and work. A hanics of the tlnancial aid system unrestricted program became an gift is aid which does not require at Notre Dame. enormously draining system that repayment, mainly given in the 
obviously needed some limlta· form of scholarships. The Uni­Financial Aid Forms tions. Cost of student aid versity itself offers scholarships 
If you are interested in dropped 25 percent when to students in recognition of ex­researching the possibilities of Reagan came into office. ceptional excellence, but only to tlnancial aid, your tlrst step is to students who demonstrate a def· submit a Financial Aid Form Second, Reagan has inite need. (FAF). This is a long-winded gov­"stabilized" the money the gov­ernment form which merely ernment is putting into the aid The Pell Grant is aid from the creates a tlnancial profile of a programs; that is, he has not in­federal government which could student and his family. Forms creased the amount allotted, but range from $250 to $2100. The are available at the Office of Fin­he has not decreased it either. It government also offers Supple­ancial Aid. can be argued that this is the mental Educational Opportunity 
same as a reduction since a Grants, which are intended to 
The results of the FAF, along "stable" amount will not rise to "supplement" other forms of aid with other family circumstances, match inflation, but since fewer that a student may have. are reviewed by the tlnancial aid people are qualified for aid, the Several states have their own staff at Notre Dame. They will de-money available can be concen-scholarship programs and mill-
Financial aid awards not entirely hassle-free for all students 
LAURA LINDNER despite her proof of their eco­student, she was required to features writer nomic position. She sensed, 
finance her entire education. Her "there was no attempt to under­financial aid package consisted 
Financial aid horror stories stand my needs and limitations." of grants, scholarships and the may be few in number in regard This year the same student College WorlvStudy program, to the multitude of students at reapplied for a Guaranteed Stu­but she could not make the full Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dent Loan to cover her tuition payment on such short notice. whose education costs are suc­costs. Considering the size of the She strongly feels she was cessfully covered by monetary amount requiring payment, she treated disrespectfully, because support, but this does not was told that this form of mon­the finance officers had accused demean the seriousness ofsome etary aid would not supplement her of "using her money unwise­economic crises. her bill. The irony of the situation ly." She was also threatened that 
Some students have suffered was that her officer instructed a default on her payment would from the intricacies of the finan­her to apply for ~ Plus Loan, hinder her eligibility for the cial aid process and the imper­which requires initial repay­second semester. This year she sonality of being reduced to a ments in 60 days. r~mains confused and dismayed file bursting with forms and ap­This advice seemed a blatant by the office's failure to confirm plications. Despite the fact that disregard for her situation be­the validity of a scholarship she the Offices of Financial Aid claim cause it was incompatible with received last year, and she has to encourage questions to raise her financial profile. This student been in school more than three the individuality of this formal then had to take the initiative by months. process, select student experi­suggesting a National Direct Stu­A senior at Saint Mary's Col­ences often nullify this claim. dent Loan, after which the officer lege, Heidi Bowman, fell victim 
The Interactions of two sop­agreed to delve into the possibil­to a lack of communication with homores with the Office of Fin­ities. The student is completely their Office of Financial Aid. She ancial Aid at Notre Dame is char­frustrated by the advice and in­requested information defining acterized by severity and difference expressed by a profes­the possibility of attaining aid, harassment. One student was sional. and she promptly returned the called to the Office of Financial Another sophomore was forms she was given. Aid and asked to pay her entire treated similarly. Between Unfortunately, the office ne­bill before enrollment for the semesters last year she had ac­glected to send her the essential second semester last year. crued a bill of $300. Without supplementary forms. Upon re­
She attempted to explain the notice, payments for the second ceiving no response, she re­gravity of her personal tlnanclal semester were also added, in­quested the documents they had situation, but her finance oftlcer creasing the amount to $700. failed to send. Because she had remained unresponsive and al­She was instructed to pay this received them late in the sum­most apathetic. She was merely amount in full, or she would for­mer, she missed the priority encouraged to turn to her par­feit her second semester deadline, and her application ents for the necessary funds, schedule. Being an independent was rendered late. 
~ ~ 
-
Tuesday, December 2 1986-page 6 -7 

starts here 


tary scholarships are available to  
those participating in the  
Reserve Officers Training Corps.  
Many Notre Dame Alumni Clubs  
offer scholarships to students  
from their area. These scholar­ 
ships awards are based on,  
among other things, University­ 
supplied financial information.  
There are also miscellaneous gift  
programs which students can  
take advantage of, such as em­ 
ployee's children benents in  
large corporations and minority  
scholarships.  
Loans  
The second type of aid, a loan,  
is money borrowed for the stu­ 
dent's education which must l:)e  
repaid either during the stu­ 
dent's education or at its conclu­ 
sion. One type of loan is the Na­ 
tional Direct Student Loan. This  
is a loan provided by the federal  
government. Interest does not  
begin to accrue until six months  
after the conclusion of the edu­ 
cation, at a rate of five percent  
per year.  
Another type of loan, and by  
far the most widely used at Notre  
Dame, is the Guaranteed Student  
Loan. Money from private insti­ 
tutions is made available to the  
student at lower than commer­ that will best suit the student's  Joe Russo, director of the Of­ 
cial rates through government  needs.  flee of Financial Aid, advises,  
subsidies.  Avoiding pitfalls  "First exhaust all the normal  
On the quest for financial aid,  routines." In other words, don't  
WorWStudy Program  there are definite pitfalls to be  start your search by calling a  
The third type of aid Is the Col­ avoided. Slick advertisements  number from the National En­ 
lege WorktStudy Program. The  promising personalized lists of  quirer which promises you un­ 
University offfers various on­ possible aid sources are often a  told millions.  
campus employment  complete waste of time, and  The Office of Financial Aid is  
opportunites to students  more Importantly, money. "HOT  more than willing to work with  
demonstrating financial need.  Tips for Financial Aid" or "Stu­ any student and clear' up any  
The Office of Financial Aid will  dent Loans Now Available up to  questions they may have con­ 
work with a student and often  $1,000,000" sort ofdeals should  cerning financial aid. If you have  
will create a "package," or a com­ not be taken as a probable  a question, ask: It may be well  
bination of the above sources,  source of ald.  worth your time.  


Bowman  had  received  a  for $1 I00 which she cannot pay,  Financial Aid at Notre Dame and  
Guaranteed  Student  Loan  her  and has not yet.  Saint  Mary's  for  their  imper­ 
three  previous years in school  Her complaint Is not directed  sonality,  harassment  and  me­ 
amounting to $2500 each year,  at the Impersonality of the sys­ chanical  errors.  Although  their  
but  this year she  has  not  yet  tern, rather she Is distressed by  numbers  seem  Insignificant  
received the necessary ald. She  "the difficulty of attaining neces­ when juxtaposed  with  the  tre­ 
went to her finance officer defln­ sary aid and the complexity ofall  mendous success ofthe dealings  
ing her problem: she could only  the forms."  of each office with a large num­ 
pay the balance of her education  ber  of  students,  the  mere  
with  a  loan.  Then,  almost  six  These  students  have  valid  recognition  of such  problems  
weekS later, she received a bill  complaints against the Offices of  could only improve the system.  

Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Natalie got surprises sprung at them. Chel­an urgent message from Palmer. sea continued her anger over He told her he needed her Jean Claude's death. Dorl was desperately and to come over as puzzled by India's attitude. Com· soon as possible. She said she lng: A Spaulding venture may be would but had something to in danger. finish first. Edca continued to KNOTS LANDING: Jill's accl­tage at Adam for wiping out dent raised questions from Ben, major coverage of her wedding Gary and Greg. She was taken to to Jeremy. Coming: Adam puts a hospital in critical condition. pressure on Tad. Her recovery was complicated by 
ANOTHER WORLD: Brittany a new discovery. Karen found was arrested and charged with Paige In Michael's bed. Coming: trying to kill Peter. catlin rushed Peter faces questions about Jill. to her defense. Jamie suspected LOVING: Jack finally explained someone tampered with Donna's to Stacey that tests showed he medication. Michael and Adam had a brain tumor. She was hor­learned Reginald held the deeds ritled at the news. Jim regained to almost all of the real estate in consciousness but still had no Bay City. Coming: Rachel's plan recall as his life as a priest. He to avenge herself on Mitch goes told Shana he planned to get the into operation. · bishop to dispense of his vows 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Tom so that he could marry her. Com· insisted on getting more infor-lng: Evan plans his next move. mation about Earl's activities. ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Clint was Sierra was tormented by her upset when Vickie insisted some­need to know more about one planted a valise containing Tanio's plans. Coming: Margo the red wig In her car. Kate saved gets news that could change Cord who played dead. Cord and ev~rything. Tina returned to the house. Tom 
CAPITOL: Angelica agonlzed suspected Tina had framed over Trey's attlt~des about his fu· Vickie. Coming: Jonathan scores ture. Myrna put new pressures a breakthrough. on Jordy. Clarissa seemed RYAN'S HOPE: Rich found John haunted by . the past. Coming: standing over the dead body of Trey makes a decision about his Harlan with a lamp in his hand. future. Siobhan told Frank and Jill that 
DALLAS: Clayton fought both John had been booked for mur· Jock's ghost and Wes Parmalee der_ Lizzie inslted to Maeve that In an effort to keep Miss Ellie as Harlan was a perfect father to his wife. J.R. made an Interesting her. Jill told Frank she suspected proposal to April Stevens. Sue El-Della of killing Harlan. Coming: len made a deal of her own with Della's story makes things worse a HollyWood producer. Coming: for John. Pam fas:es a new threat to her SANTA BARBARA: Cruz vowed happiness with Bobby. he would get Eden to come back 
DAYS Of OUR LIVES: Roman to him. Eden told Keith that Cruz worried that Orpheus would still tried to get help to save Katie try to kill Marlena to avenge from drowning. Tori thought Roman's accidental shooting of Katie was just pulling a stunt. Orpheus's wife eight years ear· Keith vowed to make Tori pay for ller. Mike tried to stop Robin's letting his sister die. Santana wedding to Mitch, but she In· fretted that Danny might be sisted on going through with the hooked on drugs. Coming: ceremony. Coming: Patch and Lionel tries to change Caroline's Kayla decided to make adjust-mind about not seeing him ments In their relationship. anymore. 
FALCON CREST: Kit gave Rich· SeARCH FOR TOMORROW: ard a weapon to use against An-Hobbs tried to kill Stu. She later gela by asking for his help in tried to force Jo off the roof, but dealing with Flxx. Angela got was stopped by Grant. cagney Miss Jones' sister a job as a and the police. Hobbs confessed nanny in Richard's house. Rich· to kllling Klein and Suzl. Malcolm ard dumped waste near Chase told Kate that Quinn kidnapped and Tony's vineyard. Coming: his bride on their wedding day. Maggie agonizes over the prob-Coming: Sophia has more lems of her children. surprises In store. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Bobbie THE YOUNG l!l THE RESTLESS: and Jake decided to spend their After Jill got the board to honeymoon In the brownstone. reinstate Jack at Jabal John fl· The Hardys celebrated a tradi· nally agreed to talk to him. Amy tiona! Thanksgiving holiday. was shocked to hear Lauren say Jimmy Lee spent ThankSgiving Paul's nude photo will appear as with Charity and Jonah and a center fold. Nikki told VIctor began thinking about spending she'd like to conceive another more time with them. Coming: baby when they go on the cruise. Ramsey plans a celebration. VIctoria felt Ill. Coming: Ashley 
GUIDING LIGHT: Kyle and Reva fights growing anxieties. had some wedding plan /986, McNaught Syndicate 
,Did you know... 
... that In one day Americans spend $3.6 million on toys an~ accessores for their pets? They spend $27,000 a day on pet clothing alone. Each winter, pet owners In this country buy more than 400,000 T-shlrts for their dogs. 
. . . each time a whip Is crackecl the end of It has to travel at the speed of sound? 
... that Intelligence Quotient (I.Q.) test scort::~ are related to success In school, but not necessarily In careers? The most successful people In business tend to have average I.Q. scores, ranging between 85 and 115. The highest J.Q. score Is 200. 
----· -~-------~ 
-· --· -----------....., 
r The Observer Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 64 will provide live coverage of tonight's Notre Dame-Indiana basketball game beginning at 7. Frank Mastro and Rick Reitbrock will call the action from the ACC, and studio host Rudy Brandl will update scores throughout the night. Then, at 10 p.m. Brian Broderick and Sean Munster join Rudy Brandl for "Speaking of Sports," which will feature a special college football bowl preview. Listeners may voice their opinions by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will hold a general meeting tomor­row at 7 p.m. at Room 127 Niewland. Please bring fund raiser items. Also, the men's varsity team will begin prac­tice tomorrow at 5:15p.m. on the ACC concourse, and the men's novice team will have pratice today at 4:45p.m. at the third-floor weight room in the Rockne Memorial. -The Observer 
The ACC has announced that the building is now open from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m., Monday through Friday. -The Ob­server 
Defending national champion Louisville, 0-3 after the Great Alaska Shootout, was bounced out of The Associated Press college basketball rankings yesterday. North Carolina, which scored easy triumphs over two Hawaiian opponents, remained No. 1 in the first regular-season poll. 
-Associated Press 
The Air Force ROTC detatchment at Notre Dame is hosting the First Anual Flyin' Irish Christmas Classic bas­ketball tournament Dec. 6 and 7. The games will be played at Stepan Center and feature teams from ROTC units throughout Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. -The Ob­server 
Rod Dowhower, hired less than two years ago to put new life into an ineffective offense and rebuild the fortunes of the Indianapolis Colts, was fired yesterday and replaced by former New England coach Ron Meyer. Dowhower compiled a 5-24 record in two seasons with the Colts. That was the worst among active NFL coaches. -Associated Press 
Dubie Brown was fired today as coach of the New York Knicks and replaced by assistant coach Bob HilL­
Associated Press 

college transfers -Keith Smart once again, is senior guard (who scored 15 against Mon-Steve Alford. Alford scored 24
Hoosiers 

tana State), 6-6 junior Steve against Montana State, includ­continuedfrompage 12 Eyl and 6-8 senior Todd Meier. ing 3 for 5 shooting from the But Indiana's main man, three-point area. The 6-2
freshmen Jamere Jackson and sharpshooter riddled the IrishScott Paddock will be the first with 32 points in Indiana's 82-67off the Notre Dame bench to win at Bloomington last seasontry and get the Irish on the right 
Calloway out 

and Phelps has great respecttrack. 
for Alford.

There's nothing wrong with 
Associated Press 

"He's to college basketballthe track Indiana is riding right what (Vinny) Testevarde is tonow. The Hoosiers dominated 
INDIANAPOLIS-Doctors 
college football," he says. 

Montana State Saturday, 90-55. 
determined yesterday that The victory was diminished a 
Indiana leads the overall se­bit when forward Ricky Cal­
sophomore forward Rick 

ries, 32-17, and holds a 9-4 edge loway suffered a knee injury. 
Calloway suffered a medial 

since Knight and Phelps have 
But Knight's cupboard is by 
collateral ligament strain in 

been on the scene. This year, no means bare. Junior-college 
his right knee Saturday 

with the Irish hoping to turn transfer Dean Garrett mans 
during Indiana's 90-55 rout 

things around, Phelps is the center spot and came up 
of Montana State. 

looking for his team to try to with 10 points and eight blocked 
prove something against the shots against Montana State. 
Coach Bob Knight said 

Hoosiers. Daryl Thomas, who Knight had 
after Saturday's game that 
if Calloway had a torn or 

"This is a team that has been dismissed from the team be­
stretched ligament he could 

ranked number-one in some cause for academic reasons, 
be lost for four to six weeks. 

preseason polls and that makes has returned as a starting for­
this a great test for us," Phelps ward. He managed 15 points in 
Calloway, who averaged 

says. "We certainly did not the opener. 
13.9 points and about five 

play well at all our first game, Junior Joe Hillman is one of 
rebounds as a freshman, in­

and it should be a challenge to the guards, while Calloway's 
jured the knee during the 

us to prove we can compete replacement figues to come 
second half of the opening 

with a team as good as In­from the group of junior-
game for both teams. 
diana's going to be." 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 

goal with 24 seconds left in the contest. 
Freshman Kevin Markovitz paced the Irish scoring Friday night with four assists. Fellow freshmen Bruce Guay and Tim Kuehl each added a goal. Matt Hanzel and Bob Bilton had the other Irish scores. 
Saturday night, the Irish got a strong performance in the nets from junior Jeff Hender­son as they completed the sweep, 4-1. Henderson withstood a 45-shot barrage by the Foresters and got some good defensive help in the third period to preserve the win. 
Notre Dame jumped out on top at the 8:39 mark of the opening stanza on a McNeill power-play goal. The Foresters answered a minute later with a Luis Hondros goal. McNeill continued to break out of his scoring slump with another power-play tally at the 14­minute mark to put the Irish ahead for keeps. 
Rich Sobilo, one of the few seniors on the Notre Dame squad, and sophomore Tom Fitzgerald each scored in the second period to round out the scoring. 

"It was really nice to get the wins to get back to the .500 mark," said Smith. "We still have to work on coming out of our own end and our defensive coverage. 
"Remember, we're young, but we've improved since the first series with Kent State. If we continue to gain confidence, we'll be competitive." 
The Obsenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· 
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m .• Monday through Friday. The Obsenrer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-<lay classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. WORDPROCESSING 277·8131 Professional word processing services of term papers, resumes, mailings, etc. Center Services Company, conveniently locatad In downtown South Bend, Monday-Friday, a a.m. · 5 p.m., 282· 8550.  LOST··SILVER BRACELET 11119 ROSES MAKE UP FRONT OF BRACELET AND PICTURES OF MARY ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE. CHAIN-LIKE MAKE·UP. PLEASE RETURN ''MUCH PERSONAL AND SENTIMENTAL VALUE" SHANNON x4045 REWARD. Lost: LIGHT GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF, probably In South Dining Half. Call Elaine at 272·60t6 after 7 pm. REWARD$$. LOST: Brown leather briefcase with combination-lock catches from the library concourse on 11119-86. I desperately nead the contents of the briefcase if noth· ing else. If found, please return to 301 O'Shag or call 277 ·6995. FOUND: BASEBALL GLOVE on S.Quad  SMALL REFRIGERATOR FOR RENT NEXT SEMESTER. CALL 1443. WANTED: HOUSEMATE FOR TWO GRAD STUDENTS, next semester Hop, skip & jump from campus, only $1501 Information? Call 234·3624. APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1·982·6483 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. WANTED Waitresses, Waiters needad at Knol· lwood Country Club. No experience nee· essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16633  TICKETS I NEED INDIANA 6 N CAROLINA TIXS.272·6306 Need GA Tix for Indiana Game. Will pay big bucks. Call Emil or Jeff al 288·t044 between Sam and 5pm. Need tix to USC game? I've got 5. Call Jim £4t08 Need 2 GA tlx for lU-ND basketball game tonight. Pleeae call Shlrtey at 239-5303.  UNO es war. dass zwei Madchen sich in Zurich getroffen haben. und durch die Zeit Schwestern worden sind. Eine von die DUO heisste SOPHIA. und sie war dunkel und schon. Die andere heisste Gertie, uns sie war helL (And what hell!) Und die beida Madchen haben im Herbst Geburtstag. FROHLICHE GEBURTSTAG. SCHWES. Love you like a maddog. 22 isn·t the end of the world for one as dynamic as you. Think you can come out of your shell long enough to enjoy? I think you can! Just remember Budapest. il you need a model. The best of times, schwas. Thank you, god bless. Gert  DRIVE NEW CAR TO SEATILE, WA AND DRIVE BACK ANOTHER CAR AFTER CHRISTMAS BREAK. CALL 232·0453. Get better exam scores. Free book tells how. Cosmos International Box 43056 St. Louis, MO 63t43 ALL MEN ARE DIRT...yea. but i wish a certain speck would call. .. RIGHT TO LIFE DINNER··RIGHT TO LIFE DINNER·· TUESDAY is the last day to buy tickets for the RIGHT TO LIFE DINNER this SATURDAY at 6:30 in the N. DINING HALL. TICKETS are $8.00 and can be purchased in the dining halls or by calling Kris ND·2550 or Theresa SMC·4096. All RTL members. facuny  
in front of Alumni. Call Mary x3781  Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277·1541.  .................................; ..............................  and friends are welcome!  
WORD PROCESSING NEAR NO. CALL MARY 232·2436 SELL YOUR TEXT·BOOKS FOR $$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW foca· tion: 808 Howard St. just oft ol N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 1 0· 530 BALLROOM DANCE CLUB classes have endad this semester. Christmas dance has been cancelled. Valentines dance being plannad. Classes will resume in January.  FOUND: A ring in Haggar on t 1113. Call Lisa at x3719 to identify. LOST: t987 CLASS RING WITH BLACK STONE AND INITIALS MJT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 3036 LOST: A gold chain with an angle with a bell and my name on it (Claudine). It means a lot to me. Please contact me at the South Dining Hall at 239·78t4. FOUND: CLASS RING BEFORE BREAK ON EDDY STREET. CALL MIKE 233· 6024 TO IDENTIFY.  Enterprising, hungry student needed to start Vuarnet and Ray-Ban discount fran· chise. Very lucrative position. Must be personable, innovative, with great sales ability. Call (203) 838·6614 between 9 and 5. If you reach service, leave name, telephone number, and address. We will get Information out ASAP. I AM LOOKING FOR A RIDE TO CIN­CINATI12o!i TO 12'7. CALL t3tt. Ptaaaa aetl me your 2 GA tlx to tha IU·ND basketball tonight. Call Shlrtey 239-5303.  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$. Present this ad and receive an additional 10% OFF of any used book in store I LARGE selection of Clifi'Monarch Notes. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St., just oft of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 Days a week, 1 0·530 LOST: ND Bookbag with books and notebooks at Main Circle Tues. before break. Have TEST Thursday need  And Santiago When was your birthday? Thanks for keeping me informed. The author of the last one. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! (How do you say that in Spanish?) I owe you a Deluxe. (Wonder, world!) Enjoy break. RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE Right to Life Mass and Dinner on Sat. Dec. sixth. Mass at 5PM with Bishop D'arcy. Dinner at 6:30 with assis· tan! Attorney General Kmiec. All wei· come to Mass. Tickets for dinner must be purchasad today. Call 2550, 3712, 284·4096, 239·7222.  RIGHT TO LIFE MASS··RIGHT TO LIFE MASS·· ALL members and faculty and friends are welcome to join us in a celebration of mass at SACRED HEART at 5:00pm on SATURDAY. .... ............................................ RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO ON FRI. AFTERNOON PLEASE CALL MARY 284·5078 OR SHEILA 264·5t81 Hey all you domers We"re you watching the USC game on TV? Did you see the winning field goal? Neither did the rest of America... V01ce your disgust: CBS Sports Dept  
notebooks. Call Brian at 1007 ASAP, my  51 W. 52nd St.  
HARD ROCK CAFE ND-SMC SWEATSHIRTS NOW AVAILABLE!!!  LOSTII Gold rope bracelet wl1 white gold strand twisted around rt. My sister got it  DELIVERY HELP WANTED. BRUNO'S PIZZA, 288·3320.  grade and life depend on it!  TED BENCHIK Get psychad lor your last  NY, NY t0019 A million or so letters should get their attention...  
GREAT FOR X·MAS GIFTS $16.00 ea. or 2 for $30.00 CALL 277·2766 AFTER 5:00 PM .............................................................  for me in France and she"s not returning for awhilel PLEASE call Kath 3027 I FOR RENT I  Two firey wenches looking for ride to Chicago Dec 9 for Cyndi Lauper Concert. Can you help us? Will share expenses. 0~.~.~~.~··~·~................................................ .  ND MANAGEMENT CLUB General meeting, t24 Hayes-Healy Wednesday, Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. All members should attend  month under the Dome. Thanks for being such a friend. You give good meaning, babe. The REALLY Short One  Going 1o Tampa for Christmas break? I need riders to keep me com· pany. If you want a ride, just call Susan at 2875.  1  
I LOST/FOUND I  UNIVERSITYPARKAPTSUNIVERSITY  I  FOR SALE  THE SNITE NEEDS YOUI Volunteer a lew hours of your time on the evening of Thurs., Dec.4 and the Museum will throw  AEROBATHONI AEROBATHON PLEDGES  WILL  BE  Available 2nd semester & fall '87 4Br house furnished, secure 4·5 stu· dents,$440.0C»nonth You pay utilities,  
lost: Fur hat, russian style on Thursday Nov t3inLibraryAuditoriumorCscbuild· ing between 7 and 9 pm.f got it from  PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates for spring. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com· pfetefy lurnishad except for your roomf CALL AL or KEVIN at 277·8938.  L.----------~ FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces·  a party in your honor. Call the Snite for more details. The DOME shirts are coming... The  COLLECTED IN THE STUDENT GOVT. OFFICES TUES. 4·6, & WED. 7·9 MARY REYNOLDS: ZUSAMMEN AUF  call Geoff or Mary 288· 7276 ECONOMICS MAJORS· Undecided on a career? Not sure about the opportuni·  
Russia and will never go back again. Call  sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South  DOME shirts are coming...  EWIGI MUNICH, HERE WE COME! MJ  ties open to you? "CAREER OPPORTU·  
277·2282.  Michigan St. 233·8176.  NITIES  AND  INTERVIEWING  FOR  
Help! I lost my keys on Nov. 14,1986 somewhere on campus between the north dining hall and the architecture bldg. I really need my keys to get into my apartment. There are approximately 7 keys on this typical round,  3 OR 4·BDRM. NEWLY DECORATED, AVAILABLE NOW FOR 2ND SEMES· TEA. 3·5 STUDENTS, $100 PER STU· DENT PLUS UTILITIES. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM. NEAR PORTAGE & ANGELA. 234·6686.  Want basketball tickets? Good seat· sec· tion 5, row 5. Make an offer close to reg. price. Tom or Joe X1945 2 And. trip tix SB to Orlando Dec. 20·Dec. 29. $550. 288·5535.  Just a Tuesday note to say thanks to CAREY GELS for being a great friend-layout person. I don"t get to tell you because I'm so spazzy and busy, but I wouldn't be here without you. love ya. have a great break. Gert  SELL YOUR TEXT·BOOKS FOR $$$$!11 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca· lion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week, t0· 530  ECONOMICS MAJORS" by Paul Reynolds. Career and Placement Ser· vices. 7PM Wad. Dec. 3. 1t4 O'Shag. ALL Econ Majors (and anyone thinking about Econ as a major) welcome. Span· sored by Omicron Delta Epsilon.  
brown, wooden key chain. You know, the  Hear ye...Hear ye...The couch prophecy  NOCTURN5Nightllight·WSND·FM 88.9­ 
one with the NO insignia on it. If found,  CLUB PROSPECTS·· It"s T minus 4 days  has finally been fullillad thanks to one  Every night beginning at midnight  All  
please call £272·8839. I'd really appre·  Fumishad roorrmouse for rent.2 blocks  Canon Typestar 5. Phone Tue. and Thur.:  so get the champagne oul··the "Bubbles"  sensuous Pumper Sponge Club Trustee  new  music·requests·dadications-and  
ciate it.  E of campus. I roommate.272·0127  283·3576.  awart!I!··KIWI  as of December t, t9861!1  anything else you want to hear!  

-----, 
j 
The Observer Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 9 
Women's basketball drops season opener to Rutgers, 71-50 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame women's bas­ketball coach Mary DiStanis­lao tried an old Notre Dame psyche tactic Saturday after­noon against Rutgers. But to her dismay, DiStanislao found that an older cliche still applies as her Irish lost to the No. 6 Lady Knights, 71-50 
The Irish warmed up in their regular home white uniforms, but came out of the locker room wearing new gold uniforms they had received for winning the North Star Conference last season. Unfortunately, that old Notre Dame ploy wasn't enough to offset the 29 turn­overs the Irish committed, proving once again the old adage that turnovers'll kill you. 
"There you have it," said DiStanislao when informed of the number of turnovers her squad had. "The two things we worked on before the game were the transition game and protecting the ball. We didn't do either." 
Behind the strong inside game of all-American Sue Wicks, the Lady Knights were able to convert numerous Irish miscues into easy buckets. Wicks finished with 24 points, a career-high 20 rebounds (nine on the offensive glass) and four blocked shots. As a team, Rut­gers outrebounded Notre Dame, 50-40 
The Irish started off in good shape, jumping out to a 4-2lead in the first minute of the bal­lgame. Mter a Rutgers time out, however, it would be over eight minutes before Notre Dame scored again. The Lady Knights went to a full-court press which resulted in three straight layups for Telicher Austin. 

The Irish battled back to cut the deficit to 26-18 at the half. But from there, it was the Sue Wicks Show. The Irish had held the 6-2 forward to just four points in the opening half, but behind an assortment Of Wicks shots and rebound outlets in the second half, the Lady Knights bolted to a 41-22 lead with just under 12 minutes left to play. With both Sandy Botham and Beth Morrison (who started in place of Heidi Bunek, who is recovering from pneumonia) in foul trouble, The Irish could not offset the strong inside play of Wick and teammate Regina 
Howard. Howard finished with a game-high 25 points and 12 rebounds. IRISH ITEMS -Irish guard Mary Gavin had three assists against Rutgers, moving her just two behind Laura Doug­herty's career mark of 326. 

SOPHOMORES! WIN A 2-YEAR ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP ••• 
And a Commission in the Army Reserves or National Guard when you graduate. 
Serve as a Reserve Officer while you pursue your civilian career. 
INTERESTED? Contact CPT Domingo 
239-6264 

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAIN INC CORPS 
Junior C{ass 51(1 'l!RJP 
to 'Boyne Mountain 

February 27 -March 1 

Trip Includes:  Lifts for Sat. & Sun. Transportation Lodging (with heated outdoor pool) Breakfast Sat. & Sun. Dinner Sat  
$125.00  
Sign ups:  December 2 -December 5 2 -5 pm & 6 -9 pm, in the Junior Class Office 2nd Floor, LaFortune  



MARRIAGE PREPARATION RETREATS will be offered in the Spring Semester: 
JANUARY 30-31 MARCH 6-7 


APRIL 3-4 
'l(g.servations for tkse 1(gtreats must 6e matfe 1W fater t/ian: tJJeam6er 10 -Januar!f 1(gtreat j"e6ruar!f 6 -Mardi 1(gi:reat Mardi 3 -~ 'R.ftrozt 
Each Retreat is limited to 18 couples For more information call University Ministry 239-5242 

Ecuadorian sweaters are back 
as 

~~~~ 
(formerly Lisa's Wild &Wooly) 
presents their newest Fall line 
in the main floor Lafortune Student Center, South Hallway 
December 1,2,3 


For MasterCard/Visa orders: 

Explicit language, not recommended for children 239-5957 Wllkdlyslloon-8 1111 
f 
The Observer Tuesday, December 2 1986 -page 10 
Heroes 
continuedfrompage 12 
consecutive points over the last 12 minutes of the contest, after USC had scrapped and clawed its way to a 37-20 lead. 
The furious Irish assault began at this point, with Beuer­lein (18 completions, 27 at­tempts, 285 yards) linking up with Jackson on two long passes, the second going 42 yards for the touchdown. Jack-· son even caught a subsequent two-point conversion attempt, although it was nullified by an illegal motion penalty. Despite this setback Carney managed to get one point to put the Irish back in the game at 37-27 with 11 minutes left to play. 
"We kept believing," said Beuerlein. "The offense had so much confidence today, and we knew if the defense could hold, we'd keep fighting until we won it." 
It took a little while, but even­tually the Irish defense did hold, stopping the Trojans in dramatic fashion on a fourth­and-inches from the Notre Dame five-yard line. On the play, which concluded a 65­yard march built on a relent­less ground attack, USC quar­terback Rodney Peete (10-of-23, 171 yards) was met on the sneak by Kleine, Kovaleski, and a wall of white jerseys. Although a heated argument came from Peete and Trojan head coach Ted Tollner as to the placement of the ball, there was no measure­ment and Notre Dame once again had possession of the ball. 
"It was the worst call I've ever seen," said Peete, who was hit with a 15-yard penalty for complaining to the officials. "I thought I had made about a yard and a half." 
"He didn't get it," argued Kovaleski. "We anticipated the sneak when we saw him looking with his eyes to the side he was going to go over, and we stopped his momentum. He 
NEED GIFT IDEAS 
~HE SNITE MUSEUM SHOP HAS THE ANSWER 
Engagement Calendars 
Pottery T·Shirts Christmas cards 
Open Mon.-Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1 :00-4:00 

CHUCK'S BARBERSHOP 
Darden at Hollyhock 272-2020 
\\.0~c ....~-t ss 
\\P. 

open 9:30-5:00 

twisted, but it was over once we stopped his momentum." 
The Irish defense certainly stopped Southern Cal's mo­mentum with that play. Up to that point, USC had had good success running the ball behind backs Ryan Knight (22 carries for 90 yards) and Todd Steele (12-for-48), and had scored on all but one possession in the second half. 
This was in sharp contrast to the first half, which saw Notre Dame play well only to give up 17 points on big plays. Southern Cal cornerback Lou Brock (son of the ex-baseball star by the same name) made the biggest play, racing 58 yards for the touchdown after stepping in front of an unwisely-thrown Beuerlein pass, while Trojan kicker Don Shafer made the most outstanding, booting a school-record 60-yard field goal before the half to forge the 20-9 halftime margin. 
Still, these feats just weren't going to be enough on a day when Notre Dame was not to be denied. With the ball on their own 20-yard line and down by 10 points late in the game, Beuerlein and crew went back to work, this time marching 80 yards in eight plays for the score. By far the back-breaker for the USC defense came on the second play of the drive, when Beuerlein set up behind good protection and lofted a 49­yard bomb to the unstoppable Brown. That pass carried the ball to the Southern Cal25-yard line, where six plays later, Beuerlein hit a streaking Braxston Banks for a five-yard touchdown. 
Irish tight end Andy Heck then took a Beuerlein pass at the one-yard line and fought his way into the end zone for the all-important two-point conver­sion that made it 37-35 in favor of the Trojans. 
Still more greatness was to 
come from Brown, though, 
after the defense wrapped up Southern Cal in three plays to did a great job." force them to punt the ball Riding the wave of emotion, away one last time. Brown, Notre Dame then ran the ball who had raced back a kickoff down the goal line, setting up 57 yards earlier in the half to Carney's chip-shot game­set up the second Irish touch­winner. Appropriately, it was down (a 22-yard Beuerlein pass Carney who sealed the victory. to Banks), was inserted by The senior kicker missed the Holtz into the punt-return potential game-winner in the team. Michigan game, a contest 

which started the Irish back on 
Brown, of course, made Holtz the road to gridiron excellence. look like a genius, freeing him­self from the grasp of Trojan "We played better this year tackler Ernest Spears and than I had any right to expect," racing 56 yards down the right said Holtz. "We just had to sideline to the Southern Cal16-learn how to come back and yard line. win." 
"I just wanted to make sure Saturday, ten games after 
I caught the ball," smiled the bitter opening defeat to Brown, "and after that it was Michigan, the Irish crossed just watch the blocks. The guys perhaps the final bridge. 
Dreaming 
continued from page 12 
number-one, when he roared eight yards through the Trojan defense. On the day, Green picked up 119 yards on 24 carries, the best day of any Irish back this season. 
"I ran hard, felt great, and was just real pumped up," said Green. "I've been thinking about it all year. To come down to Southern Cal and beat up on USC in front of the hometown fans and my family is fantas­tic." 
"I thought USC played an outstanding game," said Holtz. "They were well-coached and well-prepared. 

THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 

PROFESSOR HARALD ESCH THE EVOLUTION OF BEE LANGUAGE DECEMBER 3 8:00PM MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 


~__c_l_os_e_d_~o_n_d~ay~s ___l____~ap~p~r~~ed~p~f~OQ[~arrlli~~·--_j~----------------~
__ _____ l 

1[()(((l~------------------~-----Tue-sda~y,D-ece-mb-er2-198-6-p~age-11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

/lT'TWTTON / 11ffl(£ W!U. 13£ NO, Ktft!ITNO, Pt£r5 WfTH Jflt/0 I&L£~1A6 THIS (Jefi5/0N.. 


Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
BIIT H£ NAPE tr, Wl{l(f.l

THE. FIRST OAY OF 
i/1£ tvn.r PAY... WA)N'r. 
AN01 OF COURSE, THE 


VA(A TION  WAS  6R$AT­ 
SURE.' I .. IJH•.. bQfi:. BOTANY TOOl IN FACT, I EVEN . HAVE SOME BOOK<; ON., IJH.. !iHJLYi.1 IN MY ROOM/ (YEAHYEAH, THAT's IT) I WANNA 60 ?I .  Nl'fDIIE .. AliT_.:CW?  14~R£ T C0/'1( 0 PORULAIN GOD 0 0  
&~'  

~ 
Campus 
9:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m.: UNICEF sale on cards, calendars, puzzles and gifts in the Memorial Library concourse, sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, all proceeds go to help needy children in developing nations around the world 
1:30 p.m.: SMC art dept. lecture, Susan Friedman, Chicago, Illinois, on her pho­tography free lance business in Chicago, Room 229 Moreau 
2:30 p.m.: Crown-Minow symposium registration for the Crown-Minow sympo­sium on "Teaching and Preaching about Judaism in Christian Parishes," Dec. 2-3, sponsored by the ND dept. of theoloy, the Crown-Minow Endowment, and the UNi­versity of Notre Dame, free and open to the public, Center for Continuing Educa­tion · 3:30p.m.: Crown-Minow symposium af­ternoon session, "The Presentation of Jews and Judaism in Catholic Teaching and Preaching," F. Ellen Weaver, ND, and Eugene Fisher, Secretariat for Jewish-Catholic Relations, National Con­ference of Bishops, CCE 3:30p.m.: Chemical engineering graduate seminar, "Oriented Crysallization Under Flow," Prof. A.J. McHugh, Univ. of Illi­nois, Urbana, 356 Fitzpatrick 

6Df5 TO SHOW THAT
EVERY CLOUP #AS A
FOR.60TrfN UNTIL. rHf 
9LV£R /..ININC.
LAST MINUTE. 
M6GG! 
/ W~IT 1 
7:00 p.m.: Basketball SMC vs. Indiana, ACC 
7:30 
p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Caught," 1949, bt\v, 88 minutes, Max Op­huls, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.: Basketball, ND vs. Indiana, ACC 8:00p.m.: Crown-Minow symposium eve­ning session, "Objects and Subjects of Faith: How We Teach About Each Other," Leon Klenicki, Director, Dept. of Inter­faith Mfairs of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, CCE 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Southern Fried Chicken Beef Stroganoff over Noodles Rolled Cheese Omelets 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwich Broccoli Stuffed Fish Spinach Crepes Deli Bar 

Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
• 
Fret Pregnancy Tests 

• 
frM Confidential, Individual .. Couple Counseling 


• ~~ 
• frM Relemtl To Support Agencies 
• 
Confidential care 

• 
Medical Referral Servk:e 

• 
Post Abortion Counseling 


*24 HOURHELPl.IP
234-0363 
One .... From The 417N. ST. L 

Non Dune Campua 
r-tf, WHAf 
P.SI'fAU.. 
wo~t\D! 
At a critical moment, Zak's club jams. 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Leaves at the altar 
6 Maxim 11-Na Na 14 "-kettle 
of fish" 15 Afr. river 16 Duffer's goal 17 Candy 
flavoring 19 Gypsy 20 --yourself 21 Writer Zola 23 Work place 26 Knight's 
helmet 28 Brief bright 
lights 29 Writer Susan 30 Larry or 
Luther 31 Part of 
Gr. Br. 32 Sea hazard 35 Happy tune 36 Medium's card 37 Old rifle pin 38 WWI gp. 39 Colora 40 Yonder 41 "The Streets 
of-" 43 Stewed 44 Game officials 46 Fern leaves 47 Part of a ship 48 Lard 49 Mineral earth 50 Gazebo i.e. 57 Connective 58 Afr. gazelle 59 Go in 60 Ger. river 61 Aches 62 College VIPa 
DOWN 1 Mandible 2 "-had a 
million.••" 3-Yutang 4 Explosive 5 More tawdry 6 Ma Dickinson 7 Grime 8 Epoch 
C>1986 Tribune Medie Services, Inc. 
12/2/86
All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
9-whizl 10 Hemingway and Borgnine 
11 City on the Sangamon 12 Non-native 
Hawaiian 13 Mall piece 18 Fabled birds 22 Ma Farrow 23 Stale joke 24 Asters e.g. 25 Guitar part 26 Machetes 27 Dill herb 28 White House 
pet 29 Andrea del ­31 Rods for 
12/2/88 conjurers 42 "-tonga, 51 Swlaa canton 33 Golllwogga vita brevia" 52 Sixty aec. 34 Turned right 43-Rabbit 53 Single thing 36 Bleacher 44 Glistened 54 Ma Hagen section 45 Ricochet 55 Oriental 37 Lean 46 Coal and gaa money 39 Resin source 48 "Peter Pan" 56 Hesitant 40 Dentate baddle aounda 


Sab presents••• 
What's Happening This Week:• 
Wednesday The Verdict 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Friday White Nights 
•
• 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
: Thursday The Verdict 
·.

Saturday White Nights~ 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 
• 7:00,9:30, 12:00 
: Berlin 8:00pm 

--------~ -------­

Tuesday, December 2 1986-page 12
S~orts 

Finally! Irish pull one out at the wire 
Carney's 19-yard field goal lifts ND over USC, 38-37 

I 
By MARTY BURNS "This was just a classic Assistant Sports Editor game in a classic series. We'd come back and then they would LOS ANGELES -They come back. There were a lot of 
played the greatest of games big plays by a lot of big! in the greatest of college foot­people." 
I 
ball's rivalries, and most im­In the melee that followed l portantly, this time they got it Carney's winning kick were right. several of the heroes to which 
I 
Holtz referred. In the center, The Notre Dame football of course, stood Carney and his . team, last-second losers this holder, quarterback Steve season to Michigan, Michigan Beuerlein, two seniors who l State, Pittsburgh, Penn State, rebounded from bitterly disap­and LSU, finally turned the cor­pointing moments early in the 
I 
~ ner Saturday, stunning t7th­season to key the Irish win. ranked Southern Cal, 38-37, on Or one could look off to the placekicker John Carney's 19-side where Irish receivers Tim yard field goal with no time Brown and Milt Jackson were remaining on the clock. high-fiving, the former con­The victory ended the season gratulating his teammate for on a positive note for Notre his 111 yards receiving on four I Dame, which finished 5-6 and clutch passes, and the latter lacking a bowl bid it probably celebrating Brown's two long deserved. USC, meanwhile, kick returns and five catches,
·1·ne uDserveiY Mike Moran 
will take its 7-4 record to the most of which directly set upTight end Andy Heck (88) stretches for the goal Florida Citrus Bowl on Jan. 1 Notre Dame scores.
line to complete the two-point conversion which 
for a date with Auburn. It was evident in Saturday's Then there was tailback Irish win, however, that there Mark Green, who showed off to was much more at stake for the home folks by rushing to
Irish 'homecoming' sacks Trojans 
Head Coach Lou Holtz' squad the tune of 119 yards, the most than merely the chance to gain by a Notre Dame· player this By MARTY BURNS season filled with its share the sidelines thinking, 'Oh a more respectable record. season. 
Assistant Sports Editor of disappointments. No, this is my last game, my And in the end, as the ball Or who can forget senior "This was way more than family and friends were sailed easily through the defenders Wally Kleine and LOS ANGELES -All week I could ever imagine," said here,' and all that. But I just uprights, the Notre Dame team Mike Kovaleski, who teamed long Notre Dame players Beuerlein, who returned to thank God he put me back poured out on the field in wild up to stymie two fourth-quarter Steve Beuerlein, Mark the game to engineer the in. I told him he wouldn't jubilation releasing the Trojan drives to get the ball Green; Pernell Taylor, Tom comeback after being regret it. I just thank God frustrations of having come so and the comeback back into the Rehder, Braxston Banks, benched briefly by Head for all he's done for me this close before only to have their hands of the offense? 
Reggie Ward, Chris Kvoc­Coach Lou Holtz following year." 
feet knocked out from under These were ju!jt a few of the hak, Dan Quinn, and Tom an interception that was Beuerlein is the only quar­them every time. heroes, of cour~, who accom­Riley had been California returned for a Trojan touch­terback in history to start "I can't think of a finer way plished the unbelievable on a 
Dreaming. down. "I had been warned and defeat USC for all four to finish the season," said hazy day at the legendary Los For those native Califor­earlier that (Holtz) didn't of his years. 
Holtz. "We've been so Angeles Coliseum in front of nians, Saturday's 38-37 want any turnovers from Green, meanwhile, was frustrated so many times this 70,614 enthralled patrons. All in thrilling Irish victory over me, and that if I did make visibly pumped from carry year. Every time we'd try to all, the comeback covered 18 Southern Cal was an one, something drastic come back, somebody would
see DREAMING, page 10
especially sweet capper to a would take place. I was on 
kick dirt in our face. see HEROES, page 10 

Third-ranked Hoosiers 
Smith gets 
I 

challenge Irish tonight 300th victory as ND sweeps 
By RICK RIETBROCK says it should only be a matter Sports Writer of time before he's playing at his normal level. By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
Just as the film "Hoosiers" "He's just on the floor has gotten off to a successful playing the game like a kid who 
Home sweet home was the

start at the box office, Bob hasn't been on the playground Knight's Hoosiers have started for a while," he says. "Now place to be this Thanksgiving 
weekend for the Notre Dame
quickly as well, showing their he's just got to come back and hockey team.
No. 3 ranking is no fluke. get used to the environment." 
The Irish swept two gamesThe Hoosiers present stiff op­The rest of the starting lineup from the visiting Foresters of

position tonight for Digger will feature a three-guard look, Phelps' Irish, who are looking with Scott Hicks and Mark Lake Forest, 7-5 on Friday and 
4-1 Saturday. Along the way,
to rebound from a 80-63 thump­Stevenson manning the wing ing against Western Kentucky spots. 

the Irish gave thier mentor of in the first round of the Coca­Hicks did a masterful defen­
19 years, Lefty Smith, the 300th Cola NIT Classic. In particular, sive job in Notre Dame's vic­
and 301st wins of his career and upped their season record to 4­Notre Dame wants to rebound tory against Indiana two years 4, 2-2 in the ACHA.
on the defensive boards and ago when he held Indiana's take better care of the ball, two Steve Alford to only four points. 

Friday night, the Irish which were glaring weak spots Stevenson continues to show 
jumped to a 5-2 lead with 6:02 f gone in the third period. But
against the Hilltoppers. his scoring capabilities, as he then the Irish grew complacent 

I "We had 23 turnovers against tallied 13 against Western Ken­Western Kentucky and gave up tucky. and watched the game be 
16 offensive rebounds," says Donald Royal, who picked up evened at the 12: 13 mark on a t Phelps "So that's what we've where he left off last year with goal by Dennis Moran, his worked on." a 17-point, 7-rebound effort in second of the evening. 
But just 48 seconds later, Bob 

I 
Part of the problem can be the opener, and junior Gary attributed to the condition of Voce, who was held scoreless Herber scored his second goal junior point guard David against the Hilltoppers, round .._ of the period to put the Irish Rivers, who saw his first game out the starting five. back on top. Captain Mike 
action against the Hilltoppers. Sophomore Sean Conner and McNeill added an insurance
The Observer! 

! l 
Rivers will move into the start­

Guard Mark Stevenson has asserted himself as a main scoring
see HOOSIERS, page 8 see HOCKEY, page 8
ing lineup tonight, and Phelps 
threat on the Irish squad. 


