
Freeze-dried pets -page 3 

VOL. XX, NO. 122 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer/Bob Jones 
Apartheid activists 
Hall. The display was intended to show the in­Members of Amnesty International stage a justice of the arrests of blacks under the present demonstration yesterday in front of South Dining apartheid system in South Africa. 


ND Security reports recent rash of thefts from student rooms 
'-------------------------------------------them. According to Rakow, a few 
Booster design problems existed, NASA says 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 

The recent warm weather is part­ly to blame for the 20 thefts from rooms reported to Notre Dame Security in the last five days, Direc­tor of Security Rex Rakow said yesterday. 
"It's so nice outside that people go out, leaving the dorms empty," Rakow said. 
Most of the thefts occurred in Grace and Flanner halls, he said. None of the 20 thefts involved break-ins, but instead were from rooms with unlocked doors, he said. 
Rakow also said that 16 reported bike thefts have occurred during and since spring break. 
Stolen from the dorm rooms were cash, jewelry and credit cards, he said. The total loss ·was estimated at $1,450, he added. 
Security has made no arrests in the reported thefts from rooms, nor does it have any suspects, said Rakow. Students are not suspected of the thefts, he noted. 
Although the sunny weather might be blamed for some of theJthefts, it can't be blamed for all of 
AS80Ciatcd Pr~ 
Cape Canaveral, Fla. -Atop NASA investigator said yesterday that a faulty rocket joint definitely caused the explosion of Challenger, and that engineers failed to take notice when design flaws "winked at us" on earlier flights. 
"We missed it in this joint," said 

J.R. Thompson, vice chairman of a National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration investigation task force. · "We missed it in the design, and I 
think  some  of  the  prior  flight  
anomalies  were  not  taken  
seriously."  

Thompson told a news confer­ence that he was positive the explo­sion was caused by a failure in the joint between the bottom two seg­ments of the right solid fuel booster rocket. 
"Clearly the failure was in that joint," he said. "Clearly that joint has to be redesigned." 
The presidential commission in­vestigating the disaster has said for weeks that the joint was the leading suspect, and other possible causes have been systematically eliminated. Thompson's statements, however, appeared to be 

the most emphatic yet on the sub­
ject. 
Thompson is deputy director for technical operations at the Plasma Physics Laboratory at Princeton Uni­versity. Before that he worked 21 years with NASA at the Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Ala., where he managed development of the space shuttle's main engines. 
Thompson said the task force in· vestigation is focusing on possibly defective 0-rings designed to stop hot gases from escaping through the joint; on the effect of the rotation of the joint when subjected to ignition pressures; on characteristics of the putty intended to put pressure on the rings; a possible joint alignment problem, and the effect the freezing temperatures on launch day might have had on the rings or the putty. 
"It may be a combination ofsome of these factors," he said. "We're weighing each one on what part it might have played." 
Launch day photographs show a puff of black smoke spurting from the joint just after ignition and a plume of flame shooting from the area 58 seconds later. 
Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff on Jan. 28, killing the crew offive men and two women. 

Bomb scare mars Weinberger's Thailand trip 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK, Thailand -Defense 
Secretary Caspar Weinberger drew 
cheers on a border: tour and protest 
in the capital yesterday, then had 
his dinner plans changed by a bomb 
explosion in a hotel parking lot. 
The bomb, which wounded three 

people, went off about 15 feet from 
where Weinberger was to have 
passed 90 minutes later on his way 
to a state dinner at the government­
owned Erawan Hotel given by 
Prime Minister Prem Tinsulanon­
da. 
the receptionOfficials moved Hilton Hotel,and dinner to the 

where the defense secretary was staying. 
The U.S. Embassy said 

Weinberger's delegation had no comment on the explosion. Foreign Minister Siddhi Savetsila tole reporters that the secretary shrugg­.edit off, commenting, "Thailand is 
one of the safest places in the world. It's safer than New York." 
Narond Mahanond, chief of the national police, said the bombing was under investigation and''we at­tach great importance to this case." There was no immediate claim of responsibility. 
Earlier yesterday Weinberger toured the tense Thai-Cambodian border and got a rousing welcome from villagers who have suffered from border battles between Cam­bodian rebels and Vietnamese forces that occupy the neighboring 
country·
His trip to the frontier province of Surin was regarded as· a demonstration of U.S. support for 
Thailand against hostile, Soviet­backed neighbors in Indochina. 
Weinberger is to leave today for Australia. He visited South I<9rea, Japan and the Philippines before Thailand. 


APPIIoto 
U.S. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger reviews troops during his visit to Thailand. Story at left. 
of the thefts occurred at night while students were sleeping inside. 
"We've been receiving reports of people getting up ift the morning and seeing their stuff has been stolen," he said. 
In the case of the Security officer assaulted early Sunday morning, Rakow said the three students iden­tified as responsible have admitted to the assault. The investigation into the incident has ended, he said. The officer returned to work last night. 
In the case of the student assaulted in the LaFortune Student Center early Saturday morning, Rakow said Security has made no arrests. 

Hurley celebrates birthday 
By BETH CORNWELL 
Staff Reporter 
Kevin Hurley, the Notre Dame 
freshman who was struck and in­
jured by a hit-and-run driver Sept. 
7 when crossing U.S. 31-33, 
celebrated his 19th birthday yester­
day by fixing lunch for his father. 
Since Dec. 10, Kevin has been in 
the Greenery Center, undergoing 
physical therapy, said his father, 
Richard Hurley. 
"For his birthday today, he took 
me down to the center's kitchen and 
grilled us some ham and cheese 
sandwiches," said Hurley. 
Kevin's physical condition is fair, according to Mr. Hurley. He is cur­rently being fitted for a temporary artificial limb and preparing for major surgery in early or mid-May, which will ready the muscles in the stump of his left leg for a perma­nent limb, he said. His lower left leg was amputated because of in­juries suffered in the Sept. 7 acci­dent. 
Mentally, Kevin is doing fairly well, said his father. "Hetalks all the time ... his long-term memory is great, it's the short-term which is fuzzy, like what he had for breakfast or whether things hap­pened today or yesterday. 
"When he woke up, it took a long time. It's not like on TV when they open their eyes and ask: Where am I? It's a terribly long process. His biggest concern was the loss of his leg. It still is," said Hurley. 
"I can't describe how much help we've gotten from all of you at Notre Dame. Kevin can't understand it. I mean, he was only there for a couple of weeks... he doesn't know how you could love him so much. 
"All I can ask is that you keep praying for him. Keep sending those letters and cards... he reads every one of them. Boy, it really works... he's getting better," said Hurley. 

The Observer Wednesday, April9, 1986-page 2 

Of Interest 
Warm temperature mean better walking weather. Saint Mary's student government reminds students about the danger of walking alone at night on the road between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Protect yourself by walking with a friend, or call security for a ride. Don't become just another statistic. -The Observer 
A priest from Capetown, South ~frica, Father 
Basil Van Rensburg, and Professor Peter Walshe wtll be the guests tonight on WVFI-AM 640's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 11. Lynne Strand will interview them on life in South Africa and the movement for universities to divest from muitinational cor­porations with South African operations. Calls from listeners will be taken at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Vandalism at Notre Dame will be the topic this week on Radio Free Notre Dame. Join host Sheila McDaniel and John Rogers as they take listeners' calls on WVFI-AM 640's re­quest line tonight at 239-6400 from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. -The Observer 
Cathy Rigby, former Olympic gymnast, will speak on "Balancing ·Wellness" tomorrow night at 7:30 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. A public reception will follow her talk which is sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. -The Observer 
Juniors of all majors are invited to a presentation on their post-graduate job search tonight at 7 in Room 118 Nieuwland. Paul Reynolds, from Career and Placement Services, will tell how his office can assist in the search and analyze a number of activities juniors should consider before next year. The presentation will be repeated tomorrow night at the same time. ­
The Observer 

State club presidents will meet tonight at 8 in Walsh Hall's south lounge. Anyone interested in starting a campus geographical club is urged to attend. -The Observer 
Out to lunch? The patio at the Center for Social Concerns will be the scene of a Vietnamese benefit lunch today from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. -The Observer 

"Losing Weight Without Dieting" will be the 
topic of discussion tonight at 6:30 in Lemans Hall's Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Saint Mary's student government, the talk will feature Martha Erickson, director of Nutrition Services at the South Bend Clinic. -The Observer 
Get Smart about your car. AI Veldman, owner of a local Standard Oil station, will speak about basic car care today from 
4:30 to 5:15 and 5:30 to 6:15 in front of Saint Mary's dining hall on the Lemans side. -The Observer 
Reporter Jerry Thompson, who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan, will lecture tonight at 7:30 in the Architecture Building. An award-winning reporter for the Tennessean, Thompson took on a second identity and became a Klan member. The lecture is sponsored the Michiana Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalism. -The Observer 
. 

Weather 
Bag the suntan lotion. A 20 per­cent chance of showers today with highs in the mid 40s. A 20 percent chance of snow showers tonight with lows in the low to mid 30s. A con­tinued 20 percent chance of showers again tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 40s. 
-AP 


The Observer is continuina to ex­perience typesetting 4ifficu1ties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
The Obsrrver ( l·sPS <;<)<) l.· tOOO l •~ puhli~hnl "lon«...a\ through fn«...n cxn·p1 dunn~: l'xam and ,.,Ration pt"ritxb The Obsrrver 1~ puhli~hcd h~ the 'tut.knt~ofthe l m\·t:r-.1\ of Notre l>amc and Saint \loan··, Cnllq~c Sub~nplion.. rna\ he pun·ha~«... lor S~0 per year ( 120 per ~mc..tcr) b~ ,.:Tlllnl( The Observer. P <I Box<). -.ntre Dame. lmhdn.t ·t<>';'i(, 
The Observer " ~ member of The Assocbted Pre!O.'i....II rrpnl<lutc·uon fll(h" .ut· rc!><'•vcd 



Don't dismiss complaints ­address them constructively 
"Well, if you don't like it here, why don't you leave?" 
How many more times am I going to have to hear 
this fabulous rebuttal whenever some student has a 
problem? Why is it that here at Notre Dame, where we 
are supposed to be learning new and better answers to 
old and new questions, I keep hearing this same old 
answer? Can't people think of a legitimate answer to 
students' gripes? 
I think it unreasonable for us to expect everyone to 
be totally satisfied here. If Notre Dame is everything 
that you hoped and dreamed it would be, that is great. 
The rest of us have several problems which range from 
the major to the insignificant. 
Some people can accept these problems; some peo­
ple cannot. Regardless, the problems are real. They 
have to be confronted. 
Some students would have us believe that you have 
to be totally satisfied with life here. To see anything 
other than perfection means you are deluded. 
Everyone's perception of happiness is different; 
therefore, it is ludicrous to expect everyone here to be 
totally pappy. 
Notre Dame cannot be all things to all people. 
Students should not expect it to be. 
Ifeveryone can see that, then why are some students 
so intolerant of others' complaints? 
A few weeks before break a couple of friends and I 
were arguing about some of my strongest objections 
to University life. Among the complaints were the 
alcohol policy, parietals, and no meat on Fridays. Of 
course, those immortal words of wisdom were 
spoken: "Ifyou do not like it here, leave." 
Needless to say, I was not going to sit back and let 
them say something like that without commenting. 
Just because I disagree with the administration in a 
few areas does not mean I should transfer, does it? 
According to these two, it does. To them, either you view Notre Dame as a paradise or you bite the apple and leave. 
Perhaps this philosophy should be added to duLac, and then around the beginning of second semester they can start hading out transfer applications to those students who have a gripe. 
I told my friends I was not entirely happy, but I also said I did not want to transfer. 
William Curran wrote a wonderful column in Viewpoint two days ago, April 7. He said people often complain, and some even consider transfering. Rarely does anyone do so. What keeps the students here is ''the people and the spirit that make Notre Dame special ... The special feeling is a sense of belonging, the friendly atmosphere, and helpful students who care," Curran said. "Notre Dame is still a special place despite its problems," he concluded. 
This is exactly what I told my friends. I only wish Curran had written his column earlier. 
At the time of my argument, my friends said I should stop complaining if I do not agree with the University's policies. I realize I may not be able to 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 

Drew Sandler 

Photo Manager 


Jfyou don'+ {.ke it... 
/ 


change the administration's policies; however, if no one complained, no one would know anything needs to be improved. Thus, nothing would be improved. 
Or are those who complain just trouble-makers and nay-sayers? If everyone just ignores the problems, they are not going to go away on their own. An example would be the alcohol policy. Why? It is not because I think we should all be running around in a drunken frenzy, but because the policy 's value system is all wrong. 
An alcohol policy should be teaching us how to con­trol our drinking habits and about social drinking. In­stead, as a professor said, we learn to drink behind closed doors, how to sneak a beer past an RA and how to get around the rules. 
Besides, everyone knows the way the school en­forces the policy is haphazard, and changes from dorm to dorm and rector to rector. If the administra­tion is so adamant about the alcohol policy, why do I see every Friday afternoon a sea of beer being brought into the dorms? 
The administration should get its values straight. Maybe, as has been suggested, the alcohol policy is to prevent libel and the administration already bas set its values -money over students. 
So if you have a gripe or grumble, speak up. It is the only way we can hope things will change here. Maybe it will not do any good, but will silence help anything? And to my two friends with whom I was arguing, maybe I cannot do anything to change those things I dislike. 
But I am trying. 

Support 



MAX WEINBERG 
will soon be at Notre Dame. Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberg willjam with the finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
Tickets on sale at Ticket Stub for $3.00 Will take place April12 at 8:00pm at Stepan Center 
MAX is conting Aprill2. 
Sponsored by the '---------studentActivities Board__..,, 
The Observer Wednesday, April 9, 1986 · page .~ 

Freeze-dried pets newest way to preserve dead animals 
Associated Press 
NISSWA, Minn. -Fido or Fluffy can lie by the hearth forever thanks to the wonders of freeze-drying, says a man whose company offers pet owners a way to preserve the remains of their four-legged loved 
ones in lifelike fashion. 
"The natural thing for a human being to do is to hang on to that animal, to want to keep it," said Roger Saatzer, president of Presetv­A-Pet. "The next best thing to bring­ing it back to life is to have it freeze-dried." 
"We've done everything from rab­bits to turtles, dogs, cats, snakes and gerbils," said Saatzer. He has even freeze-dried a lion. 
Freeze-drying gives the animal a far more realistic appearance than traditional taxidermy, he said. 
"Everything remains intact," Saat-


Applications available Office of Student Activities 1st Floor LaFortune 

APPLICATION DEADLINE APRIL 10, 1986 

MARRIOTT'S CHEF BARRY RUMSEY'S 


April Special 
FISH EN CROUTE 



$9.95 

Enjoy a delicious Fish En Croute dinner to include: 
With this coupon 

$1.00 
OFF ANY DINNER ENTREE 
Expires April 30, 1986 

Fresh scrod wrapped in spinach and shrimp, baked in a flaky pastry. 
Topped with a creamy fish sauce. Dinner includes Soup and Salad Bar Offer Expires April 30, 1986. 
SOUTH BEND ~QrriOtt HOTEL 
123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 234-2000 


tracts all water from the body wit­hout altering its size orshape, so that decomposition is halted. The animal's remains thus will not shrink and will have no odor. 
The cost varies depending on the size and posture desired, Saatzer said. "A small house cat in a sitting position would run about $450, while a large German shepherd in an attack position would cost around $2,000," he said. 
Bush visits 

U.S. forces in Mideast 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Vice Presi­de_nt George Bush said yesterday that U.S. warships patrolling the oil­rich Persian Gulf are a signal to potential troublemakers that "they'd better think twice" and blunt Soviet influence in the region. 
Bush visited the USS LaSalle, the command ship for a U.S. naval task force in the gulf, to stress American military power in the region. The white-painted flagship, docked at a Bahrainian port, is known as "the Great White Ghost of the Arabian Coast." 
Standing under a canopy on the sun-drenched flight-deck, Bush told sailors the task force helps blunt Soviet influence in the gulf. 
"The bet that you're here helps friendly countries resist Soviet at­tempts to gain influence, gain dominance in this area," Bush said. 
"The fact that you're here is a war­ning to anyone who might even be thinking of fundamentally disrupt­ing this area that they'd better think twice ... and if that doesn't stop them, then they'd better think again," he said. 
The gulfhas been rocked by a 55­year war between Arab Iraq and Per­sian Iran. Arab countries in the region fear Iranian attacks on Per­sian Gulf oil tankers and the spread of the religious fundamentalism of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Teh­ran's spiritual leader. 
Gulf shipping, including large oil tankers, have been targets for both the Iranian and Iraqi air forces. 
"We have no plan that can lead to the end of the war," said Bush, who noted U.S. relations with both countries have not "been superb over the years." 
"We are concerned and our con­cern stems mainly from the fact that we don't want to see Iran shift the balance of power in the area nor threaten any of the friendly countries -the Gulf Cooperation Council countries," he said. That group includes Saudi Arabia, Bah­rain, Oman, Qatar, United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. 
Bush also discussed last month's U.S.-Libya confrontation in the Gulf of Sidra. The Reagan administration said U.S. forces sunk at least two Libyan patrol boats and attacked a missile site after libya fired missiles at U.S. warplanes. 
"Navy ships and Navy and Marine fliers didn't blink twice when they were attacked in the Mediterranean two weeks ago," Bush said. 
"They responded swiftly and there's a great pride all across the United States because of that," he said. 
Bahrain makes its facilities available to the U.S. Navy but is sensitive about attention focused on its military ties with the United States. 
"Go see it (the ship). Don't make too much fuss about it," Sheik Mohammed bin Mubarak al-.Khalifa, Bahrain's foreign minister, told reporters earlier. 
Bush, nearing the end ofa 38-hour visit to this island country off the coast ofSaudi Arabia, conferred with the emir of Bahrain on the Iran-Iraq war, Middle East peace efforts and oil prices. 
zer said. "The color, the size, even the texture of the hair is the same." 
Saatzer, who also owns a company that manufactures freeze-drying equipment, said the idea came to him a couple of years ago when a taxidermist said he wasn't sure he could afford a freeze-drying machine he wanted. 
"Just off the top of my head I sug­gested he advertise doing pets," Saatzer sait'l. "He tried it and it 
worked." 
"Pet owners ship their deceased pets to the company frozen. They also send photographs so the com­pany can get an idea of how the owner wants the pet to look," Saat­zer said. The animal is then thawed and shaped into position. 
Once the animal's body is shaped it is freeze dried -placed in a vacuum chamber at a temperature of 5 degrees below zero. The process ex-

'i wn ~: &asaaus Books 
i ...... r 1027 E •. Wayne 
• ~-•'""" 4 Toes • ~un. noon • 6 
~-1 block south of Jdeuon & Eddy Ueed A ot~t ofprhlt 1toobIMMI..t, .oW. eean:...
• 

The Notre Dame Department ofCommunication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 
Th·e Wav of the Cross 
According' to the Gospel of Mark 

Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25,26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 

The Observer Wednesday, April9, 1986 ·page 4 

The Observer!Bob Jones

Bookstore fever 

The recent warm weather has brought crowds out to the Stepan and Lyons courts for Bookstore Basketball. Saint Mary•s sophomores Jenn Killian (left) and Beth Nik/as (center), and Notre Dame sophomore Ed Hickey enjoy yesterday's games. 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOWBENIJNGFORFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and Qff-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Office at120 ND Ave 
~7/~5716 
Call Anytime 



Student government considers UBC system 
By BOB MUSSELMAN Parzianello said the internal SeniorStaffReporter auditors found no major problems the last time they were audited, in 
Financial officers of student 1983. government are considering a move The push for the change, he said, to abandon their own internal ac· came earlier this year when several counting system and become part of SAB commissioners wanted more the university's accounting system, up-to-date records ofwhere their ac­Unit Budget Control (UBC). counts stood. 
There is no consensus. however, He said, however, that a move to among past and former ·officials l'BC won't solve the time-lag whether the chang~ should be problems about which the commis­made. sioners were complaining. Rather, 
Most university departments, in­he said, the situation should be cluding all physical operations, and "taken care of internally." some student organizations, includ­"Students' money should be put in ing The Observer, use UBC to ~eep students' hands," he said, "and we're track of their finances. very accountable to students." 
Ed Hums, assistant university "My feeling, and I believe the cur­comptroller, said the system merely rent treasurer's feeling, is that we records transactions and budgets. should stay on our system," Par­How the funds are used, he said, is zianello said. up to the individual organizations. But the new treasurer, Becca Cur­
ren, didn't want to talk about it.
"Whether the switch will be made "Until we've reached a formalwill be worked out through Student decision on Unit Budget Control, ·I
Affairs," he said. 

don't wish to comment," she said.
Currently, the student body treasurer oversees a student govern­Curren did say since student ment accounting system which government's fiscal year ends June monitors funds distributed to stu­30, she expects a decision by then. dent government, the Student Ac­She also said there is no pressure at tivities Board, clubs and this time from the administration to organizations affiliated with Student make the change. Activities and the Hall Presidents' 
Lee Broussard, former manager ofCouncil. 
SAB, said SAB currently works with
Last year, student activities fees two systems: wages are reported
generated 1246,000. 

through the university employment 
"I was totally against it (the system, while other expenses are change to UBC) for the fact that recorded with the student body we've been individual for a long treasurer. A move to UBC, he said, time now and we've been checked would help reconcile expenses im­by the university's internal audit mediately and give each commis­staff," said Eric Parzianello, former sioner more accurate financial student body treasurer. information. 

needs 

Poster hangers and table tent 
distributors for the 1986-87 school year. If interested, ple~se contact Janel at the SAB Office. 
239-7757 
The Best of Everything I 
' 
I 

Bring In This Coupon And Save
I I I I I I 

I Low Prices 
• Lorge Frome Selection Trained Opticians • Free Adjustments 
I 

FrH One Year Glu... CurantH
I 

Broken glasses repaired or replaced at no charge for one year.
I 

1/3 Off






Glasses 
Order a complete pair of prescription glasses and take 1/3 oH the regular price. All .._ included and choose from our entire fr-Hlec:tlon including Halston. Pierre Cardin and Yves St. Laurent. Coupon and student/faculty identification must be presented at time of order. No other diSCounts apply 
Offer expires May 10, 1986. 
South Bend: ScoHsdale Mall 291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7472 . Offer gOOd at all Service Optical offices 
EJ" 
Open All Dav Saturday and Sunday Man Hours PROFIESIIONAL EYE: E:XAMINATION AVAILAIU BY

...._ ________________________
_
OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE: ON PREMIIE:I 


*Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsot 
•Amencan Hydron 
•Aosolt 
•Bausch & Lomb •Cibasofl •Durasolt 
$41.9:1,., 
·rm..tlenses 
• 
Bauscn & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasolt Colors 


'63.97 pair

.,,...._l_ 
•AOSollcon $57/pr 

•Bau\cn & Lomb $46/pr 
•CoOI;le.rVosoon, Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Dvrasort 3 $57/pr •Genes•s 4 !-'io;tor •Hydrocurw 175/pt. 
If YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 
,..-------------,I 
~--------rl

I o,..,, OUC'hw 
I I
I P!.•u wnd _m. • CiJP\1 of m\o l.llnl .ott cOf'll«l J 
I lfoftlo1)ff'Kfiplt<NI Pl.au compl•lf' th-. and m.~oll 11 I 
~~ u~~~~~b~~~·~.::::~-m~~---I 
1 jNIICI'ftlllgn.t!"r• I 

I
...... 
oz 

l 
'•>••I,Wt".'"'
ll.x..nd..d-.ar 
I I -------------------­
1 hr-..r·,,..,..h.n• 
L-------------­
All ltnau gu1r1nlteG hrll qulily. 1111 art supphtd on lht Dtlllftll IICtary ...... filii 

FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
1 ACQu·'P. yO·j (()mp.et~ contaCt •en~ 
orescr,pi.O,.. 
-; Como'ete tne oroer [)(··o~~~o 
3 Ma•ecnec• '""'nt'yO•df'· o• 
CQr"'OOiele cr~11 card •nfotfT\diOf. 031ya­ble IOCLS ,nc 4 En<.•ose "ame aoo•ess & phQne f1umber Wtfr'! Order 5 Ma'· at· .nfor~di•On to 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Certtr ld. On.tand, Ohio 44139 216/241·2416 
Con1ac1 Lens Suppliers for 25 years · 

,.......... -____ ,...._. 
...ty -··---·• pllir. UNO 
•Tet.lfw.._.,
.,..,..&......__2_.0_0_ 
.,.,.. 
I ~~he etldosecl tot..,.,.ntin ..........
.......,: 
died! 
VISA 

(Person.! Checks mus1 be clea•ed pror 10 stMpmentt 

--··------­
------'----­
.-.................,....... 
• We d k.., ell "''"riJtietoa ..fM 
,.,,_....

"".........................._ 
.........., ... ,...,. ,.... .,..,_ ill 
,....... 


The Observer 
Wednesday, April 9, 1986-page 5 


Pigment in black skin may cause positive results in marijuana tests 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Pigments in dark­
skinned people are chemically 
similar to marijuana and may lead to 
wrongful accusations of marijuana 
use based on inaccurate urine tests, 
according to a chemist who testifies 
frequently in court cases concern­
ing drug abuse. 
James Woodford of Atlanta said 
the pigment, melanin, breaks down 
into fragments in the urine that are 
chemically similar to the active in­
gredient in marijuana. 
In very sensitive urine tests, melanin can produce positive results in people who have not used marijuana, Woodford said in a telephone interview yesterday. 
Melanin is present in everyone, but it is present in higher levels in blacks and Hispanics, for example, than in whites, Woodford said. Dark­
~.,,oi. Student Government-----­~d§'o ASSISTANT TREASURER 
?--QQ available in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor ~Lafortune Must presently be a Sophmore Accounting Major Applications due 
if you have any questions call
Friday, April 11 , 4:00 PM 
'Becca at 239-7417 
t===JRISR=============t PRING RUNS======~ 

Saturda~, April J9 
TWO RACES Irish Spring Three· JOam Irish SpringSis •!Jam 
Reelstratlon at NVA offlee
51* Divisions 
orat dlnlnl halls durlnl
$4entr~fee 
dinner Wed. and Thurs. nllhts. 
Registration Deadline April!% 

skinned people are therefore more likely than others to be wrongly accused ofmarijuana use, he said. 
Last month Woodford testified in Cleveland in the case of a group of police cadets who tested positive for marijuana use a month before their 
graduation  from  the  police  
academy.  
Ten  of 20  black and  Hispanic  

cadets tested positive for marijuana use and 3 of 23 white cadets were positive, Woodford said. He filed an affidavit suggesting that melanin was responsible for the larger percentage of positives among the blacks and Hispanics. He said the case has not yet been resolved. 
"Those kinds of splits in the test results are seen across the board," said Woodford, who was prompted to suggest the melanin theory after noticing that dark-skinned people seemed more likely to test positive for marijuana use. 

Arthur McBay, a drug-testing ex­pert with the state medical ex­aminer's office in North Carolina, said he knew of no evidence to sup­port Woodford's claim, but he ack­nowledged that the extremely sensitive tests for marijuana use can provide false results. 
He said he had read Woodford's affidavit in the Cleveland case, and it "didn't give me enough information to evaluate whether this could oc­cur orcouldn't occur." 
Woodford said that melanin, in ad­dition to being chemically similar to marijuana's active ingredient, also "acts like a sponge" soaking up chemical compounds similar to THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, the active ingredient in marijuana. 
By Earning College Credits In 
SUMMER SESSION 
This summer, you can earn college credits while 
·you're getting a tan. Saint Xavier College offers more than 100 courses in 27 fields of study, including art, business, computer science, criminal justice, education, English, history, mass communications, physical sciences, psychology, sociology and more. 
For a brochure, call (312) 779-3300 or send 
coupon today. 


Saint Xavier College 
3700 West 103rd St., Chicago, IL 60655 
Please send me a Summer Session brochure: Name --------------------­Address -------------------­City___________ State___ Zip____ Send to Summer Session Director, Saint Xavier College, 3700 West 103rd St., Chicago, IL 60655 
0 

Accent 
Wednesday, April9, 1986-page 6 
Third 
orld Awareness 
I I ODN strives to provide 
I( 
students with initiative to help 
The group meets every Thursday at various problems facing Third 
KATHY ROE 
7 p.m. in the center for Social Con­World countries. In fulfilling this features writer cerns to talk and listen to music. aspect, the Notre Dame O_DN Students. troubled by injustices The ODN comprises three basic chapter is hoping to promote more 
taking place in the Third World programs. The first program student-oriented lectures at accessi­. ':.'
:·:·:··.':.%,_.··1···.~
..:.,:.. :.. ·.
.... ;

often may wonder how they could focuses on establishing a partner­ble campus locations. Also, the help improve the plight of ship between a college ODN group is interested in establishing a .
' . 

underdeveloped countries. This chapter and a Third World com­faculty advisory board that will 
J·,,.!' sense of helplessness is reflected in munity t)1at is engaged in develop­share it~ knowledge with students. a typical student attitude that an in­ment projects but is short of The third program essentially dividual could not possibly make a necessary funds. Through fundrais­provides an informational service difference. ing activities, the ODN raises the concerning the opportunities for Yet in the past few years, con­capital for the early operation of a student internship or employment cerned college students across the particular community project. An in international development pro­country have found an outlet in important aspect of the ODN pro­grams. This information is the Overseas Development Net­jects is th~r concern for the · local available from the opportunities work. ODN is a national, student­people's view of their needs rather clearinghouse run by the national run organization that aims to than the outsider's view. ODN. educate campuses about interna­According to Executive Secretary Twarog attributes the overall ap­tional development. Sophia Twarog, the tentative plan peal of ODN to the consequence of An ODN branch was initiated at for the Notre Dame chapter is to students seeing other students in­Notre Dame in February largely select and begin funding a project volved and realizing that they, too, through the efforts of senior Paul next fall. Listings of the many com­can aid the effort of development Aiello and junior Sophia Twarog. munity projects that need sponsors work. 
The ObserverI Jim Curoll

After Professor Kenneth Jameson are provided by the national ODN Third World countries should of the Kellogg Institute was con­headquarters. know they have a friend in Left to right: David Rulli, Beth Ballard and Sean McKessy party together tacted by the national ODN head­Generally, project costs run America's Overseas Development while raising their awareness ofthird-world problems at the ODN­quarters, he approached Aiello between $2,000 and $6,000. Cam­Network. sponsored dance. with the idea of forming a Notre pus chapters unable to raise this Dame chapter. Twarog became in­amount of funds can borrow volved in the group's early forma­money from the national ODN tion after she heard about ODN in revolving fund. In return for their 
RASTA, SOLA and WHC work 
an economics class last semester. support, ODN members get both Since its inception the local ODN the satisfaction of indirectly work­
to sponsor week's activities
chapter has grown to include over . ing for Third World improvement 30 students. The members come and are able to directly com­
Gerry Scimeca Against Starvation. With its first whose main goal is to call attention from a wide variety of municate with project participants. 
features staffwriter birthday this past February, to situations that exist in areas ofbackgrounds, including many The second program concen­Third World Awareness Week has RAST A has been both popular and great hunger and to fund variousstudents from forei&n countries. trates on building awareness of the 
arrived at Notre Dame, and four successful in getting its message rural development projects to help · clubs -including the newly formed across. Their main objective is to alleviate the problem. Kevin Overseas Development Network -break people's media-implanted Moser, a senior theology major, is are trying to open the campus' eyes image of Africa as a large mass of president of WHC and has outlined toward various social concerns. starving people and portray them a series of events which will be The clubs are busily planning on a more human and personal sponsored by the WHC during events which they hope will get level. Third World Awareness Week and students involved. Chairman Cathy Ann Reynolds, a will complement the other events of 
Alejandro Foxley, a senior senior English writing and art ma­RAST A and SOLA. A good many government major from Chile, is jor at Saint Mary's, first became in­of the events planned are sponsored currently in charge of running volved with the organization last bytheODN. Students Organized for Latin year when it formed and is pleased The ODN sponsored a dance America. SOLA primarily pro­with the response RAST A has Saturday in the South Dining Hall vides the campus with information received from the students. with the dance-band Rhythm concerning Latin American current "Through the reggae musical Methods. Last night at the CSC a events. groups who we get to play on cam­talk was given by Charles Wilver on 
SOLA has planned several events pus, we see people becoming aware the Bishops' Pastoral letter and its for Third World Awareness Week. of the situation in Africa," said economic effects. Sunday the Monday they sponsored a small Reynolds. WHC will sponsor a crop walk cultural buffet in the Center for A main concern of RAST A is to through S·outh Bend in a show of Social Concerns with a variety of help Africa become developed and support for the world's hunger pro­talent including poetry, music and self-sufficient through resources blems. "It's going to be a lot of art. Their main event is scheduled they already possess rather than fun," said Moser. "But we still for April 18 at the Wilson Com­with the more frequently used need a lot of support from the mons. From 8 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. methods of Western colonization. students. We would like to get they will recreate a traditional With the guidance of faculty ad­about 150 people if we could. Latin American gathering known visor and Zaire native Mutombo Overall though, ideas like this as the Pena Folclorica at the Com­Mpanya, RASTA has planned a don't seem to be too popular right mons. Latin American music, busy week. Among the highlights now," he said. poetry and a film about Chilean is the African Show of Arts In the tO-kilometer walk around singer Edwardo Peralta will be the tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Haggar South Bend, the participants will entertainment, and food will be Parlor at Saint Mary's. The show meet various groups and church provided. will host a range of African music organizations who will greet them 
SOLA utilizes Third World and poetry as well as photographs, along the way with encouragement Awareness Week to inform people, art exhibts and free food. as well as free food. students who are unfamiliar with S orne of the other events RASTA Third World Awareness Week is a the situations of various South and has planned include a movie about time for students to become more Central American countries as well reggae singer Jimmy C I iff, a involved and more informed about as to provide them with valuable in­presentation on South Africa by the conditions of foreign countries formation on current events, Professor Peter Walshe and a con­while they have fun. The en­
'nleOherwrI Jim c.noll 
cultures and lifestyles. cert by the Ethiopian band, Dallol. thusiasm and participation of the 

Richard &hwartz, bassist for the Rhythm Methods, entertains the crowd Another organization with big The World Hunger Coalition is students is essential for the week's at ODN's Saturday-night dance. 
plans for the week is the Rally another socially active organization success. 
The Observer Wednesday, April9, 1986-page 7 

The Harlem Globetrotters, featuring Lynette Woodard, will visit the ACC this Friday night. Tickets are on sale now at the ACC with chair seats selling for $9.50 and bleacher seats for $8.00. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff will receive a two-dollar discount on all tickets. -The Observer 
Attention sports writen. There will be a mandatory meeting tonight at 8 in the Little Theater. Spring assignments and general information will be discussed. If you can' make it, please contact Dennis or one of the assistant sports editor. -The Observer 
An Army ROTC running team captured rJISt place in an intercollegiate 10 kilometer run last weekend at E. Ken­tucky. The team, composed of Garret Hennessey, Mike Woll, John Bowbin and Mike Cotter, finished with a total time of 15:07 in defeating a field of over 140 runners. -The Observer 
A Dancin' Irish organizational meeting for those in­terested in trying out will be held Friday, Aprilll, at 4:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. For more information call Patty Perez at 283-1511. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course is being sponsored by NVA and positions are still available. Any ND students or staff interested in the 15-hour course should attent clas on Sunday, Aprill3 at 4 p.m. in room 218 of Rockne. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A Women's Bookstore Basketball captains' meeting will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Little Theater in LaFortune. Schedules and rules will be distributed and the $5 registration fee will be collected for those who have not paid. Tomorrow is the deadline for the fee. For more information call Mary Sheridan at 2930 or Melissa Warnke at 3433. -The Observer 
NVA fencing and team tennis entries are due April 11. The fencing tournament will be held April 14 and 15 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym and is for novic fencers. The team tennis tournament is a single-elimination event to be held April 19. Both tournaments will include men's and women's divi­sions. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Members of the Chicago Bears, including former Notre Dame standout Dave Duerson, will participate in a benefit basketball game on Sunday, April 13, at 4 p.m. at LaSalle High School. Tickets are $4 and may be purchased at LaSalle High School bookstore, Nightwinds Records at North Village Mall, Merle Harmons Fan Fair at University Park Mall or for $5 at the door. Others scheduled to participate include Otis Wilson, Andy Frederickson and possibly Steve Fuller. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 
Transfer 
continuedfrom page 12 
seemed to tum the program around 
this season in his first year there. 
"You think a lot about your deci· sion to come here," he continued. "I don't regret coming here, I only wish things had worked out dif­ferently." 
Beeuwsaert came to Notre Dame last yeac with a long list of im­pressive credentials. He had been named to the prep all· America teams of McDonald's (one of 25 ), Parade (second team of l 0) and Scholastic Coach/Adidas, and his Mater Dei High School team finished 28-2 his 
senior  season.  He  also  captained  
Mater  Dei  his  junior  and  senior  
years.  

·::::.....
......

Thanksto you... ·==li=··:::• it works... . forALLOFUS 

1ht• Oh~il'rl'l.'r '\otn: l>.tmt· otfkc lot.tlt.·d on the t.urtl tloor of l..tl·ortunt· ..,tutlt.·nt C t·ntt·r. aLtt·ph da....,rfinl .ttln·rtr..m~ trorn <J .t m unul t p m ..\lunda' lhrou~h I rttl.J\ The Uhst•rr·.-r 'amt .\1an ·.., utfitt· lot.ttt·d on tht· lhrn.l tluor ot ll.t~~.tr Collt.·~t· ( t.·ntn .tt.t.l'Pt' tla.,.,tfinl' lrom I.! ~II p m until ~ p m . \1on· d.t\ 1hou~h lrrtla' lk.ttllrrll" l11r Ill" d,t\ ''·•"rlinh '' ~ pm \llti.J"'"'Iinh nur-.1 ht· prt·pard t·rtlll"r rn pt·r-.onor In lliJrl < h.tr~t· '' ftlu·rll' pt.·r IIH·t h.tr.Jt
Classifieds 
tt-r' ·r ua\· 

Lost Lost Lost· at B.P. Formal-· aport coat WORK WANTED. HARD WORKING 'JUNIORS, JUNIORS. PREPAIIIIING FOR 
Need ride to Cleveland April 18.WiR lhare with walet in chest pocket. I have yours­MAN NEEDS MONEY FOR GRAD YOUR JOB IEARCH.' PAUL expenaes.Call Kathleen at 1322.NOTICES caN -1805 and we can trade. Very impor· SCHOOL. EXTERIOR PAINTING AND REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE· tent call Kevin at 1805, that'at805, 1805! LANDSCAPING. GOOD MENT SERVICES, 7:00 P.M. 118
TICKETS 
Need ride back from Columbus April REFERENCES.CALL DON (616-695-NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HAll. 20.WiU ahare expenaes.Call Kathleen at Typ1ng Available LOST: BLACK ROSARY. GrNt aan­2369) T~HT. ALL I~TED. REPEATED 1322. 287-4082 timental value. H IOUI'Id, pleaae call I NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS!!!! IF TOMORROW lA-nME. 283-1432 after 11:00 p.m. YOU ORDERED EXTRAS. I W1U BUY
RIDE NEEDED FOR 3 PEOPLE TO Verbal communication IS in 2nd place,THEM. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 2n· Hungry? Cd YELLOW SUBMARINE at
MIAMI OF OHIO and falling. It 1ook1 ~ke GRAPE JELLY ia TYPING ..SliNG: WOOLRICH KHAKI LEAVE 4·18, RETURN 4·20 CALL3874 1067. I AM DESPARATE!!!!I 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours tonight: 5pm· moving up fat! 
CALL CHilli 
HOODED PARKA. LOST IN FRONT OF 12am. 234-1117. L. banana apjll quand if pleut.'wortting the 
MOfUISIEY LAIT THURSDAY NIGHT. OENEROUI REWARD OF· HELPI NEED RIDE TO INDIANOPUS SIGN-UPS for bua trip to Chicago on cakes' ,llchool houae rock vi~. FERED FOR ITS RETURN. PLEASE FRIDAY 4/11. RETURN SUNDAY. WIU Saturday, April 12th .-e TONIGHT and monopoly ok.pj. 
Wordprocelling· Typing 
CALL WIWAM AT 3451 WITH IN­PAY BIG $$$. CALL STEVE AT 1617 PERSONALS tomorrow night. Coltilonly $10.00 round 272-8827 FORMAnON. NOQUESnONS ASKED. AFTER MIDNIGHT. trip. Sign up at NO LaFortune Main Desk tonight and tomorrow night 5-7pm. At 
Brian (Oaktree) Pi81Tet, OJ (Eaay Layup) 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO CIN· OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. SMC Sign up in Dining Hall during dinner Doyle, Mike (Hoops) Rooney. DanCINNAn, LOUISVIUE, OR IN­CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 hours tonight and tom nt. Departs 9:30amTYPING • Fast. High-Quality. Call 287· (Airball) McCarthy and Tim (7 for 23) Bin­
FOAR DIANAPOLIS ANYTIME THIS WEEK. BLOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. from main circle and returna 7pm.
9257 gham.
PLEASE CALL3n21!!! FREECOUPONSintheyellowpegeaotTyping!Wordprocesllng 
Off to a great IIBrt! 
EXTRA LARGE 4 BEDROOM HOUSE the C.mpua Telephone Directory. UM CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS 
277-8131 DESPERATELY SEEKING: AIDE TO Badin 4 plua I 
NEAR CAMPUS. LOTS OF EXTRAS! themtocayl CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS 
CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. 
CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS NEAR BRIDGET'S. $400 A MONTH UN· PLEASE CAU MARY KATE AT 4174. 

FURNISHED. WILL FURNISH IF Thank You St. Jude lor all your help! Get them at The Celar! 
1ST SOURCE NEW CAR SALE 
DESIRED. CALL 2n-8185 Please continue to help mel THE IN ORANGE
APIIIIIL 18TH, ND ACC TO MAN THE 
WANTED: ORAD. nx WILL PAY WELL. 

........ ··········· . ·············· .............•....•..•... SHOATS WHO WAS WATCHING
ride or riders needed to Indianapolis on M. H. B. T. D. ··MJ CALL BETH AT 2n-8549.
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272· BOOKSTORE AT LYONS ON MONDAY:
4/11
84PORICHEM4 6306 I'D LIKE TO MEET YOU
cal pete 3643 
Selling SR. FORMAL BID! Home 272· FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO Spaniah,A-,Psych,98,Comp & 8834, Office 239-5136 $60 Uktor Pam x3709 
1&,00011LUI18,500 -THE GIRL IN THE RED TANK TOP 
ND ACC APIIIIIL 18TH. FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 Ut,A,Chemiatry,7... Thank
Getting ria d your bike? Don't junk it! 
You,St.Jude!!!!!! ooc·A·o~McoocEivEoiN.rRul-H
Donate it to a needy family. Call George .... 
Semi·furnilhed houae good neighbor· OMBUDSMAN
PRO.TYPE • 15 yra. exp. atudent & law 283-3457 for into. NEVER DIES. YOU'RE A MOUSTACHE· papera, resumes, diuertationt. 2n-hood call alter 4 • 255-3684 2n·3604 1ST SOURCE NEW CAR SALE QRIPENIGHT LESS HUNK. DOH BABY. LO'-'E YA. APIIIIIL 18TH, ND ACC 
GIGGLES
5833. Excellent typill with computerized word 
summer giveway: Uve in a lurniahed WedneM8y, April II
procesaing skill needed. Part
house near NO lor very little money. caH 4:45 to 1:45PM To Ann M. at Saint Marya. It waa my
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL time/flexible hours. Send resume to Text 
289-5245 84POR8CHEM4 
HOPE to go with you to your Senior For­
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Proceasing, Ave Maria Preso, Notre 
16,000 ..LEI $18,500 South Olnlng Hal 

mai ... Pieae. oh Pteue ask Me!l Sin­
Dame, IN 46556. 
ROOM $100/MO 2n-2045 NO ACC APRIL 18TH cerely(a broken-hearted Bilinga, Ombudlmen PrHenll Montana bound 11Udent) Double M
ADMINISTRATOR OF OPERA110N IRAINSTOAM EDUCATIONAI.. CENTER An leMa ContMt Mature-minded individual to direct South 
WANTED ..8U8AAU $&,243 DESPERATELY SEEKING: RIDE TO Mark Broatowaki ia looking lor a live in
Bend Area offlce of nation-wide educa­...detaila in the dining halla and at the tionally oriented company. Respon­8& FIERO St,MS CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. roomate. Preferably blonde, 5'10', 36-24­PLEASE CALL MARY KATE AT 4174. 48. and wears a grMn. sweaty Mi~
OBUD desk In LaFonune. Sibilities include, recruitment of atudents. H QMND-AMSt,tts supervilion of office and inatructional H SUMIRO $8,115 State aweat ahirt. Pteue appty at MBA • office where he is known as the 'Boil on the Help! need ride to AKRON1 4/11-4/13 or staff, public relations & outreach to H FIREBIRD $10,515 ANDY DOUGHERTY: Your amite makea ol' Bung'.
ATA FITNESS CENTER anywhere Mat alonll-80 c8ll Moe 288-academic & bullineu communities. Can­88 MERCURY LYNX $5,8811 
meamile.l'd~ketoaayhi,but ... Sincerely,

1 YEAR MEMBERSHIP didatea should have excellent communi· H EICORT15.•7
11121 

an obserVer Van Pearcy is getting married. Spread the
REDUCED TO $290 cationa & problem lolving akiPa, 8& OLDS CALAIS II,111 word.
VALUED AT $414 demonstrative leadership abiHty, ex­H HORIZON $&,500 CALL JIM 232-0007 GOVERNMENT JOBS. perience wortUng with the public and a ACC APRIL 18TH Between 6:00a.m.·12 Noon M-F $16,040.$59,230/yr. Now Hrring. CaH 1· 
talent for hai'Kiing many reaponsibifitiea. ACCCARIALE 
805-687·6000 Ext. R-9834 for current Hey Pat Murpny...you have to pay for
Bachelor's degree required. Educational APRIL 18TH 
federal fiat these thinga. Sorry. I tried. Better luck
& busineas pref81Ted. Compensation in There are Official Notre Dame Track and CALL MARIO MANTA next time. Sincerely yours---BiN 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for mid-teens. Apply by writing: Search Field T ·Shirts and Sweat tope left (very lor more information a week at Fort Walton Beach, South NO SPANISH INSTRUCTOR NEEDS Group SHK EC, 131 West 56 Street, few left). Please hurry and purchue one 236-2201 DE881E TUCKER turns 21 today! MEN, 
Padre Island and Daytona Beach! Hurry, REASONABLE ROOM/BOARD NEAR NY.NY 10019 or as many as we have left. T·Shirts are call Sunchase Tours lor more information NYU FOR YEAR 86-87.CALL KEVIN $8 and Sweat Tops are $15. Call Tom at make your day by calling thia blond goddeaa to wish her a Happy Birthday at
toll free 1·800·321-5911 TODAY! When 291-2878. 239-76341or more information...thia is top that last test is over Break lor The Beach quality merchrndise. CPA REVUE: 
284-4384!j 
COUNSELORS: Summer boya resident camp in N.E. High salary. travel alowance lor studenta with 

with Sunchase' FOR SALE A real cliffhanger! 
Dj· O.K., 10 you blew me off AGAIN ... Doil
SENIORS .......... IENIORS

SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ Moving to a new city?
skills in basketball. basebal. soccer. 

again. and last nile wiN NEVER be 
sailing, tennis, .-chery, fencing, com­AND CREDIT! Cliff notea available. PAN­Word of the Day: 
repeated ... BjNeed a roommeta?
LOST/FOUND 
puter. pione«ing, ropes. bicycling. Alao UORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 
car..& Placetn.r It S.VIc.e can help.

openings lor AN's, LPN's. For luther in­233-2342 AdJuated Selling Prlca 
WANNA HABLO? 
Slop by or call ~5200.
formation cal 914-381-5983 or write to Cd 284·5428 and wish 

FOUND: Ladiea watch outside camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, BRAND NEW! Rosa 10.apeed. lndudea SAMIRA GOZI.INE 
o·Shaugnessy Thursday, 3-20. Call Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543. a tool kit. tire pump. 6' steel cable & lock. 
a FELIZ BIRTHDAY Kevin at 277 ·0920 to identify. Attention SMC students: 
$99. Call Greg. 232-6153. NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· SENIORS••..•..•..SENIOAS General Committee Meeting lor Orienta· HELPIII I LOST A IILACK AND GOLD MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). Moving to a new city? tion'86
Dad bought one too many. FOR SALE: Macintoah
STRIPED WATCH IN THE FIRST WEEK CALL BRENT, 2n-04t7, EVES. Brand new carrying caae. Need a roommete? April 8th & 9th 
Of MARCH.IT WAS PROIIAIILY LOST BEFORE 10. STILL IN BOX, NEVER USED. Call Glenn car-• Placement lervlc.e can help. 6:00pm To: Steve Hagnel. Jim Sennott. Jim Mac· AROUND THE BUSINESS BUILDING, st 3451. Stop by or call 23e-5200. Carrol Hal Donald, and the guys on 1IIf1oor Alumni • ST. ..CHAEL'S LAUNDRY OR RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR. female. will Must attend 1 meeting Thankl for taking care of the drunken fool 
CAVANAUGH HALL. PLEASE CON­sit with children (or houae). perform from SMC Friday night. She and her TACT TONY AT 1~. REWARD$$$ IF household chorea. in return lor room and ·n DODGE. 51,000 MILES. BELONGED 'JUNIORS, JUNIORS. PT.pertng for roommate appreciate your kindness. FOUND. HAS GREAT IENTIMENTAl.. board.Relerencea available. 283-2762. TO MY GRANDMOTHER. GREAT your job ee.cn. • Paul Reynolda ot To the beautiful McCanchu chickl we Love, Elaine and Peggy VALUE, PLEAIE HELP!! car.. and Plecement llervlcea, 7:00 talked to at NY Street Saturday. WHO
SHAPE LITTLE RUST. P.B., P.S, NEW GOT TICKETS FOR COMMENCEMENT BATTERY. BIG BACK SEAT FOR S.Y ~­p.m. 118 Nleuwt.nd Sdenc:e Hal. ARE YOU?? C&S. TIME "WARP 4-EVER MN· Lcxt two gold keya on silver elutic band. ?? Need 2 tix. Wil pay$$$. Call MARK at DATES ASKING $1,200 (NEGOTIABLE) Tofllehl All lnYIIied. Aepeeled tomor· WHERE ARE YOU?? WWISYA? CROCKET& TUBBS-COOL Call2n-6978. thanks. 2287. CALL MARIA 284·5048 row Mme time. Jim & Rick BEANS ZAAF5-A t-MEI 
The Observer Wednesday, April 9, 1986-page 8 

AP l'iloto 

Oakland A •s second baseman Mike Gallego steps game last season. The A •s and Yankee's were two out of the way ofNew York Yankees Billy Sample of the teams which opened their 1986 seasons after making a throw to first for a double play in a yesterday. 

Cardinals get cold reception; Irish tennis team wins, 5-4 
By RICK RIETBROCK 2 win to go with Cahill's quick 6-4, Sports Writer " 6-1 triumph which gave Notre Dame's freshman crew another solid 
Ball State's tennis team arrived outing. Dave Reiter suffered a 2-6, 5­yesterday sporting a nifty 12-2 7 loss and Nelligan came up ·just record, but Notre Dame gave the '5hort in a 5-7, 4-6 defeat. visiting Cardinals a cold reception 
The key victory in Coach Fallon's
and took a 5-4 win at the Courtney view was the number-one singles
Courts. win by Dan Walsh, who took a 6-4, The Irish got some good singles 2-6, 7-6 marathon win over Marty play to take a 4-2 match lead, and the Reist. doubles team ofTony Cahill and joe Nelligan came through with the "Dan's victory was definitely the deciding victory in the afternoon's key one for us," Fallon said. "He's final match. been taking a beating this year be­Irish head coach Tom Fallon said cause he always has to play the other he felt the tough win would do the team's top guy. But, even though he Irish more good than just a win in doesn't always get the wins, he has the record book really improved greatly throughout "This is really a good win for the this year and I thought today's match team," he said. ""Ball State is really showed that progress." definitely a quality team, as their Going into the doubles competi­
record would indicate. tion with a 4-2lead, the Irish seemed 
"This match should be a big to be in good shape, but Ball State confidence-builder for our club. 
quickly tied the score at four with Coming into the season, I felt there wins over the teams of Walsh and 
would be a number of 5-4 matches, Paul Daggs, 6-0, 6-3, and Carr and and you have to be able to win your Reiter, 6-3, 6-3. That left the match 
share ofthe close ones in the course 
up to Cahill and Nelligan and theyofa season. 
responded with a 6-3, 6-3 victory to give the Irish the win.
"If you lose a few tough matches 
in a row, you tend to hang your head Notre Dame's record now stands
a little and feel down," he continued. at 13-6. They will be off until the
"This win should prevent that from weekend when they start a string of
happening and keep us in a good games which will see them play
frame of mind." every day from Saturday until Wed­
Brian Kalbas got a 6-4, 6-3 singles victory and Tim Carr added a 7-5,6-nesday, all at home. 

.J.P.W. Prints 
W•dn•aday, April !I naan-4pm LaFartun• stud•nt C•nt•r 
Thi• i•th• LAST chanc:• ta ard•r fram thi••v•nt. 

EMC CORPORATION 
EMC Corporation will be on campus interviewing Monday, April14, at Memorial library. 
EMC Corporation Is a high technology manufacturer and marketer of high performance computer peripherals serving the super-mini computer market. 
We are looking for additional sales people for our domestic sales force. We are currently seeking young, aggressive individuals pursuing a career in high technology sales. 
Everyone Welcome! 
The Observer Wednesday, April9, 1986-page 9 
Cordelli follows in footsteps of Holtz on field 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Don't always expect to see a smile on the face of receiver coach Pete Cordelli during practice. It isn't necessarily that he doest:t't like what he sees, it is just that he has a job to do and he knows what it will take to get it done. 
"During the two years that I worked with the Cowboys people always asked me why Coach Landry never smiled," recalls the first-year coach. "When you're out there at practice, it's the most important time ofthe day. It's like when you're taking a test-you don't smile during that test. What's there to laugh about when you're trying to get better? 
You have to enjoy it but you also have to concentrate and be real in­tense in your practice." 
Intensity in coaching is something Cordelli has learned from his guide and current boss, Lou Holtz. Cor­delli played for Holtz at North Carolina State and then spent two years as a graduate assistant under Holtz at Arkansas. His most recent duties were at Minnesota these past two seasons as its receiver coach. Cordelli obviously espouses to Holtz' philosophy as coach and motivator and tries to implement the same in his coaching duties. 
"Lou (Holtz) has always had a plan and a theory of how to do things," says the 32-year-old Blakely, Pa., native. "Then he just goes out and 

ARE YOVFEELING••• 
the effects of your parents separating? Feeling Confused, sad, down, adrift, after the divorce? 
This workshop, DEALING WITH DIVORCE OR SEPARATING PARENTS, may help with some of those feelings and reactions. 
Lyons Hall, April 9 at 6:30. Come to the social room in the basement. Sponsored by the Counseling & Psych. Services Center ... (Soon to be renamed. Stay-tuned for details). 

does it. Since the time I played under him until now, the only thing that has changed is that he has become a little more patient. He still has the a coach either, and he has kept this in mind as he helps the Irish team prepare for the 1986 season. With only 20 more practice days left, Cor­delli will be working with the receivers on building their strength and improving their toughness. 

"Spring ball is to come out and work on the fundementals," adds Cordelli. "This is the time we get this team ready for the fall. We want to know what we should be doing in every situation. Overall as a group, the receivers have come a long way. But we have to increase out inten­sity and increase our concentration. 
"Individually we have two great athletes in Milt Jackson, who I am very happy to have back this year, and Tim Brown who has the ability to be a big playmaker. We also have some depth, but I think we can even improve on that." 

Cordelli also strives to instill a team concept into the players. The early morning workouts helped to emphasize this togetherness accord­ing to the coach, and he stresses that team rights should supercede in­dividual rights. The team concept spells success for Cordelli and for him, Notre Dame is a dream come true. 
"My experience thus far has been fantastic," says Cordelli. "The people have been super in this com­munity and the players are com­mitted to winning. It is just a matter of us going out and working them hard to get them ready for that season opener." 
With so much enthusiasm and in­tensity radiating from Cordelli, it seems that Irish eyes will have plenty to smile about when the foot­ball season kicks off against .\-fic­higan. 
SMC tennis team falls to Toledo 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team dropped its first match of the spr­ing season, falling to the University of Toledo on Saturday, 9-0. The Belles, an NAIA team, are com­peting against only NCAA teams during the spring season. The of­ficial NAIA season is played during the fall. 
The Belles retained most of the same players who played this past fall, with the exception of losing two players and gaining freshman Sandy Hickey. Hickey is playing in the number-four singles position as well as the number-two doubles position with her partner Heather Temofeew. 
"Sandy and Heather's per­sonalities and playing abilities go hand in hand," said Coach Debbie Laverie, noting that this is the op­timum goal for a doubles team. 
Saturday morning's rain forced the doubles matches indoors. The Belles' doubles arrangements are new due to injuries. 
The outdoor courts were dried in time for the singles matches. 
"Heather Temofeew played an excellent match at number-two singles," said Laverie. "I was very happy with her play. 
"Charlene Szajko also played a good match at number-six singles. Her games were very close." 
The NCAA has put into effect a no-advantage rule for deuce play to prevent the matches from being played in the dark. This rule will have an effect on the game and match scores. 

The NCAA teams are tough competition for the Belles. Laverie stated that the spring season is played to provide more experience for fall season play. 
''There has been exceptional pro­gress from the fall season," noted Laverie. "The young team betters itself with every match, which is en­couraging," said Laverie. 
This weekend ~runt Mary's will face two more NCAA teams. Saturday the Belles will travel to Ohio State and Sunday the team will be playing on the road at the University of Cincinnati. 
MAY 16, 17, &18 COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES Needs Student Assistance 
HELP WANTED 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students planning to be here through Commencement Weekend: We have jobs available, serving the 1986 Commencement Activities 
JOBS: Waiters, Waitresses, Laborers, Expediters 

Where to sign up: Virdeen Rupert-South Dining Hall (Accounting Office) 239-7814 Dolores VJydrzynski-North Dining Hail (Manager's Office) 239-6176 

-------------------~--------------------------------------~------------------------~------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 9, 1986 · page 1 0 
Shumate is named assistant coach 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Sports Writer 
Only hours after Gary Brokaw had left his job as assistant basketball coach at Notre Dame for the head coaching job at Iona College, Irish head coach Digger Phelps already had a replacement. 
John Shumate, formerly a volunteer assistant coach and a player for the Irish, will fill the vacancy created by Brokaw's departure. Shumate has spent the last three years as head coach at Grand Canyon College in Phoenix after leaving Notre Dame at the conclusion of the 1982-83 season. 
"1ohn was happy to be able to come back home," said Phelps. "he is familiar with the situation here. He knows where to pick it up." 
Shumate put together records of 21-9, 18-16, and 19-8 at Grand Ca­nyon, an NAIA school. In addition he had two NAIA all-Americans and his team won a total of nine different tournaments. 
When he arrived at the school, the team grade point average was 
1.3. After Shumate had stressed academics for three years, the average had risen to 2.5. 
A 1974 graduate of Notre Dame, Shumate started at center for the Irish in his junior and senior seasons. As a junior, he averaged 
21.0 points and 12.2 rebounds to 
Bookstore 
continuedfrompage 12 
tain Kirk, led his team with six points on 21 attempts from the field. Andy Schiltz, as Scotty, shot 2-of-19, but was quick to point out the true mission of the Enterprise. 
"We're here to observe," said Schiltz. "Basketball is not our forte, it's a secondary thing." 
Kevin Fitzsimmons led the vic­torious Gash team with six baskets. Teammates Peter Kiernan and Tom Schiesser added five apiece, while Rob Houlihan pulled down 22 re­bounds. 
Yesterday witnessed the longest game in Bookstore XV thus far. In a marathon struggle, Managerial Units outlasted Four Jerks and a Squirt, 31-29. Mark Gess was the most important unit, shooting 16­of-33 from the field. John Adams,
l 
Tim Carnesi and Eddie White each 
I 
added four baskets for the victors. 
I 
I 
"Do we have to play another
I ;
I game?" asked a wheezing White, Notre Dame's assistant sports in­formation director. "It was a tough win. They were a tough team. I'm just glad we didn't have to play a team with a hyphen in its name in the first round." 
For the losing Jerks, Tim Adams shot 10-of-17 and Michael Hertel made eight of his 15 attempts. 
In other first round action, Doug Nierle's 8-of-9 performance led Fun with Small Rodent Stimulation past Duke and the Miserbale Social Pro­blems, 21-11. W.R. Mack shot 10­of-12 from the field as Team Many Martoonies pounded Third Time's a Charm, 21-4. 
~-------------, 
1 
FREE! I : REGULAR RAX~ I 
I WITH PURCHASE OF I IREGUlAR FRIES ANDI 
I l
MEDIUM DRINK 

I Our famous Jlax roast beef, sliced 1Ithin, piled high, and aerved on a 1 a.esame-seed roD. I 
l~~~eue pontnl COIIpOft bdorw orclmng. ~ I1~ per penon per ..uit. No! Wllid 111 combination •• 
'-*h any other Rax offer. Offer good at particopet:ingIRax IWIIaurant1. 1120 cent cash redcmpllon Yillur. I1•~ Rax Restaurants, Inc 1 
I I I I I I I I 
L------~------1. 
help Notre Dame to an 18-12 record and a second-place finish in the 1973 National Invitation Tour­nament. 
Shumate was an all-America selection following his senior year 
\' -r  \  ..  ,-;;;,....,.  
John Shumate  
after  averaging  24.2  points  and  

11.0 rebounds. 
He stands 11th on the Notre Dame career scoring list with 1,334 points. Shumate also is the Irish career field goal percentage leader, 
ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now.
CLUB REGISTRATION Winners and locations are chosen by lottery. 
Ail clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
1. Registration 
2. 3.  Funding Football  Concession Stands  
Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune  
DEADLINE  IS APRIL 18, 1986  


CHICAGO TRIP! 
SAT.12th 
leave: 4:30am return: 7:00pm 
see personals 
having shot at a .610 clip during his career. 
A first-round draft pick of the Phoenix Suns in 1974, Shumate spent seven years in the NBA, but missed two and one-half years because of illness. Shumate also played for Buffalo, Detroit, Houston, and San Antonio after making the league's all-rookie team in his first professional season. 
A native of Elizabeth, N.J., Shumate returned to Notre Dame following his pro career to become a volunteer assistant for two seasons. 
Shumate's return to Notre Dame will coincide with the arrival of freshmen frontcourt players Keith Robinson, Scott Paddock and Tony Jackson next fall. Phelps believes this could be a blessing for the Irish. 
"We've got a green front line coming in next fall," Phelps said. "John will be able to work with those three the way he did with (Tim) Kempton, (ken) Barlow and (Jim) Dolan when they were freshmen." 



Get in on the action! -eXIle Obsener 
News department 
is looking for dedicated students with a friendly voice to assign and verity stories over the phone. Must work well with people! Apply for 
•Day Editor Typist also needed 

Contact Lynne Strand by 4pm Thursday at the Observer office 3rd floor Lafortune 239-5303 

Queen's Castle & The Knights $5 student $8.50 cumplet cut style 
AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan in •Inate• .•. Not Houre lronw &: St. Road 23 (Acron From Martln'a) 


T0 day___________________
._w_ed_n_e_s_d_ay_,_A_p_r_il_9_,_1_9_86_-_Pa_g_e_ll 
Bloom County 
fiJ Hel?£ «£ 11~ liT me~ COUNTY fNTa(NIIllONAL 11/KPORT WllmN& RJI? 71ft' I((JJfKIIN fl./WE WI/ICI-1 WfU (!('£ US fJIICK ~I? .JOHN... IINP m~ I/WilY fWR. OL 'fJ({.L 11£ e~rr... 0 
0 
Zeto 
Berke Breathed 



PI-lONE. 
~to.fTQIIIE
............. 
C'...........QN 


The Far Sides Gary Larson 
© 1986 Unoversal Press Syndocate 



The Daily Cros~ord 
ACROSS 1 Silly ones 6 Word with 
back or baked 10 Stunned 14 Rubber tree 
product 15 Russ. mountain 
range 16 Dark blue 17 Violinist 
Stern 18 Blend into a 
whole 19 Swiss painter 20 Charmer of 
sorts 23 Letters 24 Sward 25 Next to 29 Gems 33 Soon 34 Solar system 
giant 

When snakes try to chew gum36 Cinnabar for and crawl at the same time 
one 37 Wallops '1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
4/9/86
39 Snub All Rights Reserved 40 What losers 
toss in 42 Here: Fr. 4 Official stamp 43 Extents 5 Outdo 
46 Actress 6 Peeves 
Patricia 7 In -(stuck) 47 Party game 8 Flagellate 49 Frightens 9 More speedy 51 Dolly of 10 Turk. city 
"Hello Dolly" 11 Sideliner 52 Moslem title of sorts 53 Bon vivant 12-Knievel 60 Attire for 13 Coloring 
Fonteyn 21 Wallet items 61 Peter out 22-sienna 62 Pinnacle 25 Fundamental 63 Eng. country 26 Methuselah's 
festivals father 64 Hip bones 27 Jet set 65 Ruhr city members 66 Terpsichore 28 Sign 
for one 29 Needlecases 41 "-Bicycle 54-the bill 67 Bumpkin 30 Jeff's partner Built for Two" 55 Three 68 Hunts for 31 Midsummer 44 Goofy 56 Church part 
night's event 45 Stuffing herb 57 Increase 
DOWN 32 "She -sea 48 Say no 58 Arduous 1 Silver-tongued shells..•" 50 Memory slips journey 2 Adroitness 35 Peak 52 Winning 59 Desires Saturday morning in the Gorden 

3 Catchall abbr. 38 Work hard 53 Humdinger 60 --o'-shanter 




SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTNITIES BOARD 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
lK!!(jJJ lJ!![J, rE!! w$ 0

Animal House 
"The funniest film of the year.'' 


7:00, 9:00,11 :OOpm 
Wednesday, April 9th, 

Friday, April 11th,
$1.00 $1.00 
$ll0 @(ID Thursday,April lOth $n0 (ID@
Saturday,April 12th 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 p.m. 

Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
~'~~~~~,~~~~.~~aN~2CN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~-~~.................................................................. 
.. 
Wednesday, April9, 1986 ·page 12
Seorts 
Beeuwsaert will leave Notre Dame, plans to transfer to Cal-Berkeley 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Writer 
Matt Beeuwsaert, reserve small forward on the Irish basketball team, will transfer to the University of California-Berkeley next year to play for the Golden Bears of Coach Lou Campanelli, The Observer has learned. 
Beeuwsaert, a sophomore who averaged 6.1 minutes per game this season for Notre Dame, cited a lack of court time as his primary reason for leaving the University. 
"I decided to transfer mostly be­cause of playing time," Beeuwsaert said yesterday. "I could see myself getting only 10-1 5 minutes a game 

t. next year. I want to play 30-35 minutes, or even the whole game. "I started thinking about transfer­ring during the second semester. I was pretty certain I would transfer after the Arkansas-Little Rock game." Beeuwsaert informed Irish head coach Digger Pheips of his decision to transfer on March 19. After Notre Dame gave him his official release, Beeuwsaert initiated contact with Cal, and made an official visit to the 
Eddie White ofManagerial Units attempts to grab a loose ball in campus over spring break. 
his squad's 31-29 victory over 4 jerks and a Spurt yesterday. Mike Because Beeuwsaert has neitherf Cardinale has highlights of this, the highest scorinK game of the been accepted to the school nor tournament to date, and other games in his story below. signed a letter-of-intent, Cam­
panelli's office said he could not lineup because he was in and out 
comment on the situation by NCAA with the tendinitis," said Phelps. "It's 
regulations. no negative on either side, there's no Cal is much closer to Beeuw'­hard feelings. Matt was just con­saert's Santa Ana, Calif., home than cerned with getting more playing Notre Dame. Santa Ana is just south time. of Los Angeles, and Berkeley is only "It's hard to say, and it's hard to an hour flight north near Oakland. talk about what kind ofplaying time Beeuwsaert, who was bothered he would have gotten next year." 
throughout his career at Notre Cal was 19-I 0 overall this season, Dame by chronic tendinitis, Campanelli's first at the school, and its I 1-7 conference record was good for third place in the Pacific l 0. The Bears lost to Loyola-Marymount at home in the first round of the Na­tional Invitation Tournament. 
The year before Campanelli 
arrived, Cal went I 3-1 5 and finished 
tied for eighth in the Pac 1 0. 
By NCAA rules, Beeuwsaert must sit out a year before playing for the Bears. But Cal will lose a whopping nine seniors at the conclusion of next season. 
"There will be a small forward spot open there after next season," said Beeuwsaert. "(Campanelli) said if I made a commitment to them, they would make a commitment to me. 
"It's a good school and Coach Campanelli is a good coach. He "Part ofhis problem here was that he had trouble getting into the see TRANSFER, page 7 

Bookstore tourney is invaded by 'Star Trek' 
By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 
Bookstore Basketball XV celebrated the return of Star Trek to Michiana television yesterday, as two teams of Trekkis, Captain Kirk and Four Guys with Big Phasers and Crew of the Enterprise, battled to defend the federation against enemy attack. 
Captain  Kirk  and  Four  Guys  
were  successful  against  the  Four  
Fatboys  and  a  Cheese  Head  

menace, winning by a 21-4 score. Chris Krochak and Jim Folstrom led the team with five baskets apiece. Both captain James T. Callaghan and Mike "Spock" Gregory chipped in four points, and Tim Laboe added three to the cause. 
According to Laboe, the team formed around a Star Trek viewing club in Sorin Hall. 

Bookstore Basketball XV 

"We watch it every night, whenever possible," he said. "We have a pretty good following, with about 10-15 people a night in the room." 
John Brabazon managed to penetrate the Enterprise's shields, shooting 8-of-12 in a losing effort. 
Unfortunately for Trekkies, Crew of the Enterprise was defeated by Masters Of Gash by a 21-10 score. The Crew relied heavi­ly on the "photon torpedo tactic," which involved long bombs from halfcourt and beyond. More suc­cessful was the "deflector shields up" defense, in which the Crew raised their hands to disrupt the enemy's shots. 
John McNamara, playing Cap-
see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
Area ballparks provide spring fun for baseball fans 
·; 
{ ·i I 
~ 
l 
l. 
f 
; 
r 
i 
,,' 
i 
I 
! 
There is a time for all things and this is the time for baseball. 
The season has started, much to the delight of all right­thinking Americans, and now people are starting to make their plans to head for the ball park and find the answers to these questions and more. 
•Can 
Kansas City repeat in '86? (No.) 

•Will 
the Cardinals fly back to till! top? (No.) 


•Could it be the year for a Subway Series in New York? (No.) 
You can either put faith in my prognosticative ability (not a shrewd move) or go to the ball park during the next six months to find out the answers yourselves. Should you choose the latter, here's our annual guide to the ballparks so you can take yourself out to the ballgame. 
Lookingfora short trip. 

Comiskey Park, home of the Chicago White Sox. This is one place where they belie\:e baseball is for the entertainment of the entire family. Even if you don't like baseball, you can enjoy yourself at Comiskey with the best variety ofconcessions in baseball, the sport's top organist, and a flashy scoreboard that ignites with each Chicago home run. If you are a baseball fan, you'll ap­preciate the old-time atmosphere and the presence of natural grass. A treat for any visitor to the Windy City, located just off the Dan Ryan Expressway. 
Sox Home Dates -April 9-10 Milwaukee; April 11-13 Boston; April 14-16 Detroit; April 29-30 Baltimore; May 2-4 Cleveland; May 5-7 New York. Tickets range from S9.50 for Golden Boxes to S3 for general admission. Best bet is to lay down the three bucks and sit in the bleachers in left or right field. To order tickets in advance, call 312-5 59­1212. 
Wrigley Field, home of the Chicago Cubs. This is mecca. Nothing but green grass, ivy-covered walls and plenty ofsunshine. Take the Dan Ryan to the Edens Expressway and leave at the Wrigley Field exit. It's best to go a little early to grab one of the few parking spots, but that will get you there in time for batting practice when you can sit in the bleachers and grab a souvenir and a few rays. The park for the true baseball af­ficionado. 

Chuck Freeby 
.Irish Hems 
Cubs Home Dates ·April 18-20 Pittsburgh; April 2I-23 St. Louis; April 24-27 Montreal. Tickets range from Club Boxes for S9.50 to the sun-drenched bleachers for S3.50. Now that bleacher seats are sold in advance, it's best to order early. Call 312·281-5050 fortickets. 
For a one-day trip. 
County Stadium, home of the Milwaukee Brewers. . . A fun park to go to because there are no hassles. The stadium has easy access off I-94 and plenty of parking means lots of tailgate parties before and after the game. Brats and beer are plentiful at the concession stands, but in April or May, hot chocolate orcoffee may be a neces­sary beverage substitute. As far as baseball is concerned, the Brewers aren't that great, but maybe you'll see a future Hall ofFamer like Milwaukee announcer Bob Uecker. 
Brewer Home Dates-April 14,16,17 Texas; April 18-20 New York; April 22-23 Chicago; April 29-30, May 1 Oak­land; May 2-4 California. Tickets range from S8.50 for mez­zanine seats to S3 for the remote bleachers. Best bet is to lay down S5.50 for a very good upper grandstand seat be­hind home plate. To order tickets, call 4I4-933-1818. 
Tiger Stadium, home of the Detroit Tigers. . Motown should be rocking this spring. and it's not because ofThe Four Tops or The Temptations. The Tigers are certainly contenders in the AL East, and this old ball park will be a fun place to be during the spring. Some of the food isn't the greatest, but a ball park hot dog is still good anytime. just take I-80 to 1-69 and then to 1-94 to get to the ball park and good luck in getting a parking spot. 
Tiger Home Dates. . April 9-I0 Boston; April 18­20 Cleveland; April 25-27 Chicago; April 29-30 Kansas 
City; May 2-4 Minnesota. Tickets run from S9 for box seats to S3.50 for bleachers, which aren't bad seats at all. Call 313-963-9944 to order. 
Municipal Stadium, home of the Cleveland In­dians. . OK, OK. Enough of the jokes about Cleveland. The big ball park on the banks of the Cuyahoga isn't the prettiest place inside or out, but let's look at the positives. First, they have the best mustard in baseball. Secondly, the Tribe has new uniforms. Third, as of this printing, Cleveland is in first place in the AL East. What more could you ask for? Take 1-80 into Cleveland and fol­low the signs to see a team which hasn't finished as high as third since 1968. 
Tribe Home Dates· April I1-13 Detroit; April IS-17 New York;April21-23 Baltimore; May 5-7 Kansas City. No need to call ahead for tickets, because there's always plenty available. just buy a bleacher seat for S2, because after the third inning you can sit where you please. 
For the weekend traveller. 
Riverfront Stadium, home of the Cincinnad Reds. . There's nothing special about the stadium, except that it may be one of the cleanest in the major leagues. Plenty of concession stands and some exciting baseball as Pete Rose's Reds look to contend in the NL West. It's easy to find, but not easy to get to so plan accord­ingly. 
Reds Weekend Dates -April 18-20 Houston; May 2-4 New York. Tickets range from a reasonable 18 for box seats w S3 for nose bleed "TopSix" seats which are bettersuited for seeing Halley's Comet. Best bet is to lay down six bucks for green reserved seats beyond the outfield wall. Call 51 3­421-7337 for tickets. 
Metrodome, home of the Minnesota Twins. If you're a glutton for punishment, return to the scene ofthe NCAA basketball crime. Take 1-94 to the 5th street exit and then walk into plastic land. This isn't baseball, it's indoors and in the American League. But if that's what you want, have a good time. 
Twins Weekend Dates·-April 11-13 Seattle; April25-27 
California l don't have the ticket information handy, but if 
you're interested call the Metrodome ticket office at 612­
333-5577. 


I~ 



