-~ 
Sports Wednesday -page 9 

VOL. XXI, NO. 50 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

HPChears senate resolution 
By REGIS COCCIA 
Assistant News Editor 
A Student Senate proposal calling for divestment of the University's holdings in South Africa was one of the topics dis­cussed at Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
Student Senator John Gar­diner reported on the Senate's vote on a resolution to impose a deadline for University di­vestment. According to Gar­diner, ·'the close margin of the vote shows how sensitive an issue it is." "I think a lot of students want divestment," Gardiner added. 
··According to the referen­dum held in March, 60 percent of the students who had an opinion on divestment wanted the University to divest," said Gardiner. Responding to a question regarding the Univer­sity's involvement, Gardiner said: "I think that Notre Dame's investment in South Africa is about 9 percent of the endowment, about 33 million dollars." Gardiner said the movie "Wit­ness to Apartheid" will be shown at the CSC Wednesday at 7:30P.M. and a candlelight vigil will be held Thursday night at 7:30 at the War Memorial. Also, there will be a rally"Vigil on Friday at 12: 15 
P.M. at the CCE <where the Board of Trustees will meet). 
Dan Van Haitsma of the Aca­demic Commission of Student Government addressed the council regarding the Faculty Course Evaluation, a comput­erized listing of course instruc­tor ratings. 
see HPC, page 4 

SMC Programming Board' responds to surveys 

By KAREN WEBB · copy editor 
Responses on the success of student government awareness surveys given to students Tues­day night in Saint Mary's dining hall were presented at Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting Tuesday night. 
"The questions were good, but dinner time's not a good time to do it," said Vice Pres­ident of McCandless Lisa Montpetit. 
"People usually object to surveys because it's an inva­sion of privacy," said Calendar Commissioner Mary Carol Cahill, also suggesting the sur­vey, which was given orally, should have been presented beforehand by R.A.'s or through campus mail. 
"Freshmen had no clue," said Athletic Commissioner Kim Drahota. "They didn't know positions, offices, anyth­ing." 

Results of the survey will be compiled and presented at a fu­ture Programming Board meeting. 
In other business, Mary Ger­ber, Director of Special Pro­grams at Saint Mary's, con-· suited with the Board on future dates and events for the cul­tural arts calender. 
Suggestions made by board members for upcoming events were a jazz music concert, a ballet, and also a play, based on the past success of the broadway play Evita shown at O'Laughlin Auditorium Nov. 2. 
After trying unsuccessfully to coordinate dates of cultural arts events with dates of stu­dent government sponsored events, Sarah Cook, vice pres­ident for student affairs, brought up the idea of forming student committees based on a list of volunteers made at stu­dent orientation at the begin­ning of the semester. 
Woman sentenced for Hurley mishap 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 

The South Bend woman who plead guilty to leaving the scene of the accident involving Kevin Hurley was sentenced Tuesday in St. Joseph County Superior Court, her attorney said. 
Mary Beth Gallivan, 24, was fined $1,000 and ordered to spend Sundays in the county jail for three months, attorney Victor McFadden said. 
In addition, Judge Jerome Frese placed Gallivan on four years' probation and suspended her driver's license for the same period of time, McFadden said. Frese also or­dered Gallivan to work eight hours per week at the Northern Indiana State Hospital during her probationary term. 
Gallivan had pleaded guilty on Sept. 17 to leaving the scene of an accident involving a serious bodily injury, a Class D felony. The charge carries with it a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine. 
"I thought (Frese's) sentenc­ing was at least fair, and pos­sibly much more understand­ingly made than many sentences I've seen over the years," McFadden said. 
Hurley, an 18-year-old Howard Hall freshman at the time, suffered a crushed right leg, a bruised lung and numerous abdominal and head injuries in the accident. 
His right leg was amputated below the knee, and he remained in a coma for three months. Returning to Notre Dame this past weekend, Hur­ley said he has been undergoing rehabilitation since December, 1986, and is now attending classes at a private school. 
During Tuesday's sentenc­ing, Hurley's parents spoke for approximately 1 l;2 hours about their son's injuries, McFadden said. "It was a sad thing," he said. "(Mrs. Hurley) talked of his survival as being miraculous." 
McFadden said the family's attorney, Robert Canty, also spoke at the hearing. 
"He essentially asked that Gallivan be required to work with people with serious injur­ies, particularly head injuries with disabling results," said McFadden. 
Frese followed that recom­mendation by ordering Gal­livan to work specifically with those with mental disabilities, McFadden said. 
"It was a tough decision for him to make," McFadden said. "There was no way to com­pensate the family for their grief and expenses . . . " 
At her Sept. 17 plea hearing, Gallivan testified that she was driving north on U.S. 33 at about 2:30 a.m. Sept 7, 1985, when she hit something that caused her windshield to break. Gallivan said she didn't stop even after the passenger in her car mentioned she might have hit someone. 
Both turned themselves in to the St. Joseph County police about 12 hours after the acci­dent. Her companion was not charged in the accident. 
During her testimony, Gal­livan admitted to drinking 1 l;2 beers before driving, but said she was sober at the time of the accident. 

ND students create investment group 
By SEAN HICKEY News Staff 
Seven Notre Dame entrepreneurs have initiated an investment group, accor­ding to Sam Siewert, a soph­omore who is credited with the brainstorming idea. 
Unlike the Morrissey Loan Fund, which is simply a stu­dent service that loans out money, the investment group is a partnership, according to Siewert. 
"It is a partnership invest­ment group ... separate from the university," said Siewert. "Basically what we offer over other investment groups is a far smaller personal fee which would ordinarily stop the small-time investors from investing," he said. 
Siewert said there were two 
reasons for setting up the in­
vestment group. "It's a 
chance to make money!" 
More importantly, however, Siewert said "it is a chance for students who are inter­ested in investing to brainstorm, get involved, and share experiences." 

Siewert said his original idea was spurred on by an entrepreneurial contest cur­rently being held at Notre Dame. "I talked to random stu-dents about my idea and found that there was intense interest," he said. 
"An investment group works by drawing up a detailed partnership contract stating how the money will be handled, i.e. I.R.S. involve­ment, pooling initial re­sources of the group together to serve as a base, and then investing clients' money through a broker. The amount of profit or net profit at the end of cycle is determined by subtracting the brokerage fees and the service manage­ment fees from the gross profit," he said. 
The legalities of forming an actual business seem compl­icated, but Siewert said "It is legal." 
After consulting a lawyer, Siewert said the contract "is currently being discussed and written up in detail." 
According to Siewert, some of these fine points include discussing how money will be handled and how profits, fees, and dividends will be divided. "The brokerage fees will be much less," added Siewert, and "divided proportionally to the amount of money in­vested by individuals" while management fees levied on individual profits "will cover the cost of running the group." 
Siewert said the group decided on becoming a part­nership because a corporation has virtually limitless legalities. In addition, he said 
see INVESTMENT, page 3 

The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief ~· Police dogs to stop the panty raid? 
Erotic messages from a woman were heard on the 
And you thought we have it bad
Greater Madison Convention and Visitor's Bureau enter­
tainment agenda, Madison Wisconsin police say. Bureau employees set a tape-recorded message to play after 5 
p.m. Friday, but found the erotic mess~ge Monday mor­ning. Police said someone may have discovered a code that allows bureau employees to call and update the mes­sage and substituted a recording from a dial-a-porn ser­vice. -Associated Press 
A high school's Blue Devil symbol is satanic and should be removed from the Lodi Wiscinsin school's gymnasium floor and walls. The Lodi School Board has indefinitely postponed a decision to remove the symbol. Students have said they like the symbol and want to keep it. 
The Rev. Chet Okopski of the Lodi Presbyterian Church proposed several months ago that the symbol be removed, but that the school keep the name for its athletic teams. 
-Associated Press 

Pork--the Other White Meat will be the new theme of the $4.5 million advertising campaign of the National Pork Producers Council, the Council said. Peggy Fleming, who won an ice skating gold medal at the 1968 Olympics, will promote the new theme. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 

"Career Planning for Government and History Majors" will be presented by Paul Reynolds of Career and Place­ment Services today at 4:20 p.m. in 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. All juniors and seniors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Financial Institution Series will con­tinue today at 4:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Speaking will be John Porta, president and chief operating officer of the Southeast Banking Corporation. The series is sponsored by the Finance Club. -The Observer 
"Oceanography and Deep Sea Biology" will be focused on by Dr. Kathleen Sullivan, a marine biologist at the University of Miami, tonight at 7 in the Memorial Library Lounge. Sullivan, a 1978 Notre Dame alumnus, is speaking in the Second Annual Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. A slide presentation and question and answer period will follow the lecture. Everyone is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
"Is the Sandinista Movement Christian?" will be dis­cussed by the Kellogg Institute's Scott Mainwaring tonight at 8 in LaFortune's Little Theater. Presented by the Thomas More Society, the lecture will feature a question and answer period. -The Observer 
Should patients in a coma be allowed to die if their kin so wishes will be debated tonight at 9 in the Grace Hall Pit. The second semi-final of the hall's series, members of its sixth floor will debate the ninth floor members. Pro­fessor David Solomon will judge and critique both teams' arguments. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-~ide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 
Weather 

By the looks of the forecast, everybody will be able to Wang Chung tonight, as long as they wear their polar parkas. 

o,

This afternoon calls for a 60 percent chance of snow with accumulation pos­sible and highs near 30. Tonight, the ~,.,_:....~~ Wang Chunging will begin with a 40 per­cent chance of snow showers with lows near 10. Very cold and sunny Thursday with highs from 20 to 25. -Associated Press 

"Senate Censures Use Of K-9 Police To Stop Panty-Raids," the headline read. 
No wayyyyyy, I said. 
But there it was, right on the front page of The Observer's April20, 1967 tssue: South Bend and St. Joseph County police had used dogs and tear gas to break up the annual panty raid. 
According to the article, the Notre Dame Stu­dent Senate reacted by passing a resolution con­demning the use of "K-9 dogs and tear-gas bombs as weapons against a harmless demonstration." 
During the meeting, Student Body President Jim Fish said about 1,500 students participated in the panty raid on the Saint Mary's campus. Fish said he had gone to the police right after the disturbance ended. 
"I was standing talking to one of the policeman when one of those mongrels lunged at me," Fish was quoted as saying. "I never saw such a big grin and bright eyes as I did on that mut. I ran for the nearest tree." 
Because of their capture and subsequent iden­tification during the panty raid, eight students received punishments ranging from indefinite probation to expulsion from their dorms, the article said. 
One student said he was apprehended while returning to Notre Dame. "A cop came up and said to get into the car. I wasn't too willing to get in," he said. "I started to run, but I stopped when he said, 'Stop or I'll shoot!' " 
The disciplinary action came as the result of the first of two panty raids on Saint Mary's that week. The first raid began after a shouting match bPtween residents of Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips halls. Firecrackers, cherry_ bombs and shouting attracted the attention of other halls' residents, the article said. 
Shouting "We want panties" and "Go Irish," the crowd moved from the quad to U.S. 31. There a sheriff's car had the crossroads blocked, The Observer reported. The students moved around the car and across the road to the threats of the police. 
Speaking on a public address system, one dep­uty told the students, "All right now, you guys, we'll give you one more chance to come back to your own side of the road before we set the dogs loose." The threat was met with jeers and dares, the article said. 
The police managed to move the crowd from 

ProfessionalVISion Eye Exams 
Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 
and Associates 

20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400
277-1161 
Martins Shopping Center
South of U.S. 23 

Theology at Saint Mary's college Spring 1987 Electives
• RLST 307 The Bible and Women  Burns  W:6:30p.m.  
RLST 320 Christian Spirituality  Egan  IT:2:45 p.m.  
RLST 357 Gandhi & King  Large  M:7:00p.m.  
RLST 406 Ways of Doing Theology  Martin  IT:9:30 a.m.  
RLST 431 Christian Scriptures  Weiss  MWF:2:20 p.m.  

Requirements: NO students may fulfill first requirement in theology by taking RSLT 200 and the second requirement by taking RLST 201-299 at SMC 
Times for Registration at Angela Athletic Facility: 

the front of Le Mans Hall. The students, however, then moved to the front lawn of McCandless, where they "were greeted by a shower of panties, bras, and Sunday pieces of female undergarments floating down," The Ob­server reported. 
Police officers, arriving with billy clubs in hand, walked toward the students. The crowd then moved back to LeMans where they were met by police officers and their dogs, The Ob­server reported. 
Held on a short leash, the dogs were walked in the general direction of the students, who were eventually herded back to U.S. 31. 
Fish, speaking at the senate meeting, des­cribed the dogs as "150 to 200-pound monsters trained to mutilate whatever came within their reach, pulling along a 160-pound cop. 
"In one instance the back of a student's coat was shredded like spaghetti," he said. "If it had been a student rather than a coat that mon­ster had cattght, there would have been serious injury." 
And you thought we have it bad in 1986. At least our panty raids are safe, if not our off­campus parties. 

Design Editor . _ ............ Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Layout ........ Melinda Murphy Design Assistant ............ Andy Fenoglio Accent Copy Editor ...... Mike Naughton Layout Staff.. .............. Ann Biddlecom Accent Layout.... .. ... Sharon Emmite Typesetters... . .. .. ...... Mike Buc Typists... .. Esther Ivory News Editor........ ........ Chris Bednarski ND Day Editor ...... ....... Kim Yuratovac Copy Editor... . ... Patty Censky SMC Day Editor . Monique Kelly Sports Copy Editor ............ Marty Burns Ad Design.. . .... Catherine Ramsden Viewpoint Copy Editor .. .... Bob White Photographer .......... Margaret Mannion 
Seniors  4:00-5:00  Monday  November 17  
Juniors  5:00-6:00  Monday  November 17  
Sophomores  4:00-5:00  Wednesday  November 19  
Freshmen  5:00-6:00  Wednesday  November 19  
For further information, call284-4535  

Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1986-page 3 
New minority director named 
Falwell to give lecture at ND 
By CHRIS SKORCZ Staff Reporter 

Dr. Jerry Falwell, outspoken leader of the Moral Majority, will speak Thursday night at 7 in Washington Hall. The title of his lecture, sponsored by the Student Activities Board, is "The Evangelical Vote: Is it Monolit­hie?" 
According to Steve Georgi of the SAB, Falwell will most likely use this lecture as an opportunity to discuss t~e issue of religious leaders, such as himself or televangelist Pat Robertson, running for public office. Falwell will dis­cuss the likelihood that such a religious leader can per­suade those sharing his faith to vote for him and effect a strong church-state relationship, Georgi said. 
Falwell comes to Notre Dame free of charge. Georgi said that the SAB extended approximately thirty invita­tions last spring to prominent individuals asking them to speak at Notre Dame as part of the SAB's Distinguished Lecturer Series. 
Bosco Metamoros 
The Washington Representative of the Nicaraguan Contras 
Speaks about: American lnvolovement in Nicaragua 
Thursday November 13, 1986 at 7:30pm the Ubrary Auditorium 
Sponsored by: College Republicans & International Students Organization 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
Staff Reporter 
Getting to know the students and helping them organize their goals is the first step toward solving the problems faced by many minority stu­dents at Notre Dame, accor­ding to Kenneth Durgans the new minority affairs director. 
Durgans replaced Edward Blackwell, who left Notre Dame last summer to take an advanced position at Colby Col­lege in Maine, according to Sr. Jean Lenz, assistant vice pres­ident of student affairs. 
As director of minority af­fairs, Durgans has several re­sponsibilities. 
"I will be involved in the ad­vising and recruitment of minority students, both under­graduate and graduate," said Durgans. "The bottom line is to help the various minority groups to fit in with the Notre Dame community and have 
Investment 
continuedfrom page 1 
the group has applied for a tax number from the I.R.S., "as it will want in­formation on individuals in the group and in the future a list of 
names and the home addresses 
of investors." 
"The group is research inten­sive," Siewert said, "with an automation of portfolio." This means that there are computer programs which, for example, "determine undervalued stocks in industry according to their needs recognized." 

Durgans said he is still be­comming familiar with the sit­uation at Notre Dame, but he believes it is reflective of the situation of minorities in soci­ety at large. 
"Isolation is the biggest problem minorities face," said Durgans. "It is difficult for many minority students to maintain their cultural unique­ness and and at the same time fit in with everyone else." 
Durgans attributes such iso­lationism to the failure of minorities to be acknowledged and to have their needs recog­nized. He said his first goal is to help minority students un­derstand and organize their goals in order to achieve recognition. By getting to know the students on an organiza­tional level, Durgans said he hopes to help them deal with each other as well as the rest of the Notre Dame community. 
"I'm not setting any goals for 
financial equations," he said. "In other words, the risk is lim­ited" with the financial exper­tise of the computer. 
If a student wished to become an investor in the group, Siewert said he or she could take one of two courses. "If a student has a particular idea as to an investment opportu­nity, he-She would have to pres­ent the idea to the group," he said. 
Depending on how convinc­ing the student's presentation is, "the student's idea could be accepted or rejected by a vote of the board members," said Siewert. 
the students, I'm just helping them organize the goals they already have," said Durgans. 
As a result, Durgans said he hopes to see minority groups also doing more activities with each other as an effort to preserve their cultural unique­ness. 
Durgans graduated from Baldwin-Wall ace College in Berea, Oh. in 1977 with a degree in political science and history. In 1981 he earned a master's degree from Kent State Univer­sity, and in July of this year he received a master's degree in school counseling from the Uni­versity of Dayton. 
Prior to his arrival at Notre Dame, Durgans served at Wit­tenberg University and is a member of the American Col­lege Personnel Association, the American Association of Col­lege Admission Counsellors, and the Mid-American Associ­ation of Educational Opportu­nity Program Personnel. 
A student could also go to the group with money and ask for the group to invest it, he said. Then by careful consideration the gr~up would decide where the best sources of investment would be, "but the manage­ment fees would be greater," he added. 
The investment board con­sists of seven members: soph­omore Sam Siewert, managing partner; freshman Jeff Heilert, operating manager who calls the broker directly; and soph­omore Pat Zelton and fresh­man Nick Rossi, marketing managers who handle all ad­vertising and promoting. 

COME TALK TO THE BEST IN THE BUSINESS! 
We'll tell you about career opportunities and summer internships with one of the world's largest financial services organizations. 
Wednesday~ November 12 7:30p.m. University Club 
Refreshments will be served. 


E.F. HUTTON &COMPANY INC. 
invites Notre Dame students to a presentation on the Corporate Finance Analyst Program 
Thursday, Nov. 13, 1986 at 
The Morris Inn • Notre Dame Room 
8:00p.m. 
We will be Recruiting in campus on Tuesday, Feb. 3, 1987. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 12, 1986-page 4 
Charity Ball for Ethiopia planned 
Correction 
LISA DAVISON 
News Staff 
To promote social and politi­cal awareness throughout the country, and specifically at Notre Dame, a Third Annual Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Charity Ball For Ethiopia is planned, according to Dan Har­rison, chairman of the ball. 
The first organizational meeting for the third annual ball in May is scheduled for Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the In­ternational Student Organiza­tion lounge in LaFortune, Harrison said. 
"The meeting is open to anyone who wants to get in­volved in committees," said Harrison. 
Harrison said the commit­tees are selected according to the person's individual inter­ests. "After Wednesday's meeting, we'll choose chair­people from each committee and they will be my working committee," he said. 

Discussing the upcoming ball, Harrison said, "This year I want to have as great a suc­cess as the past two years have been." 
According to Harrison, the first ball grossed $7,000 and the second ball netted $10,000. "The money goes to the Cath­olic Relief Fund and they dis­tribute it to the Ethiopia Fund. It goes to direct relief of the starving," Harrison said. 
"I believe you have to help people that do need help," Har­rison said. "At Notre Dame, we are growing, morally mature human beings and should be more aware of what we could do for other people." 
"The first year of the ball, it was estimated that 75 to 100 people were dying every hour,'' Harrison said. "To me, it .was just unfathomable that people were dying like that." 
"What we try to achieve is a positive outreach for everyone to become aware. It's positive, not negative. We want people to have a good time at the ball, but we also want them to think why they're there. The only negative aspect is that people that don't come are those who aren't aware." 
The Charity Ball is the cul­mination of an idea that Har­rison and Annemarie Finch had while driving back from break two years ago. "We were thinking how we could actually help people in need, actively as­sist those really in need," said Harrison. 
"Father David Porterfield is the faculty member who was most helpful. He's the guiding light. We needed a faculty member to help manifest our idea and he did," Harrison said. 
"The Administration is fan­tastic, a great help. The most fantastic support is Father Hesburgh. · 

facilities to students for the Aerobics for United Way will event. consist of three two-hour shifts 
HPC 

In other business, Cahill said and feature prizes. 
continuedfrom page 1 anyone interested in Aerobics Pasquerilla Hall West Co­for United Way, a fundraiser to President Colleen Kretz, According to Haitsma, the benefit the United Way, can Theodore's HPC representa­
A description of the divest­ment resolution in the Student Senate meeting story in Mon­day's Observer was incorrect. The resolution said "the Uni­versity should set a specific deadline for corporations en­gaged in business activities in South Africa to divest unless the Government of South Africa makes significant prog­ress toward dismantling its 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 






system of apartheid and takes genuine measurures toward negotiating with black leaders. If neither the corporations dis­invest nor the government makes significant progress toward dismantling apartheid by the established deadline, the University ought to completely divest from these corpora­tions." 
IAMERICAN 
WCANCER 
'.SOCIETY'~ 

Academic Commission will sign up in the Dining Halls tive, said the club offers free compile the results of all during lunch on Wednesday chips and pop every night. classes if more than 20 percent and Sunday at dinner. Accor­of the students in each class ding to Cahill, the event will Kretz said Theodore's is featur­
Don't Miss This 
responds to the evaluation. take place Nov. 22 from 10 a.m. ing a DJ this Wednesday and "Hopefully, 30 to 40 percent (of to 4 p.m. in the ACC. She said Thursday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. students) campus-wide will respond," Haitsma said. ...---lliE
THOMAS J.--.... 
One-Time Opportunity
Senior Tricia Mould spoke to the Council about the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC cam­
HITE CENTER 
paign to collect books for the 

To Have Your Copy Of
South Bend Public Housing Li­
FORLAWAND
brary. According to Mould, the ROTC is planning to put up col­lection boxes around campus. 
GOVERNMENT
Student Activities Board 
----=---­
member Junior Janel Blount 

Notre Dame Law School announced upcoming events at the meeting. She said the SAB 
presents a lecture by 
is sponsoring two movies, "The Shining" Wednesday night at 7, 

UNIVERSITY OF
Professor Kenneth Goodpaster
9: 15 and 11:30, and "M* A *S*H" Thursday night at 7, 9 and 11. 
Harvard Business School 

NOTRE DAME
Blount said tickets for the lec­
on 
ture by Dr. Jerry Falwell are 
A
currently available. 
'Can a Corporation Have a Conscience
HPC Co-Chairman J oanie Cahill said the Late Night 
(and should It have one?)' 

CONTEMPORARY 
Olympics, slated for Fe~uary, is sponsored by Non-Varsity 

PORTRAIT
Wednesday, Nov. 12 3:45p.m.
Athletics to raise funds for the 
Center for Social Concerns 
Special Olympics. According to Cahill, the NVA will open all 

' ' '··· 'Ia· . 
I' ') l'"·.rt· T'~-""' 
Sec:and Annual Distin'=Juished 
.· ~ ' 
. -, ·T'
Lecture Series 
. ~ 

ROBERT P. SCHMUHL 
Sponsored by Student Government and the Student Alumni Relations Group 
$16.95, cloth 
signed bv

Speaker: Dr. Kathleen Sullivan 
Robert SchmuhI
Topic: Oceanography and Deep Sea Biology at 
WEDNESDAY, NOV 12 at 7:00pm 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore
in the Library Lounge 
Second Floor 
Saturdav, November 1S
Dr. Sullivan is a Notre Dame graduate and an Oceanography Professor at the University ofMiami. 
10= 30am -12= 00 noon 
"ieVV~_O_i_n__t_____________w_edn-esday~,No-vemb-er1~2,198~6-p~age5 
Church must recognize female participati9n 
"The issue of women's role in the Catholic Church of the 1980's is a con­troversy that will not fade away," writes 1969 Saint Mary's College graduate Joyce Kenny Cassetta. 
Gertie Wimmer 
Private 1 

•-------------­
Women are now inspecting their po­sition in the Church, and many are not finding it to their liking. Women have never before thought to find fault with the male patriarchy of the Church or with the dPcisions that male body is passing on to its flock are now challeng­ing this, and more. 
In the forefront of this new movement of women stand several powerful fig­ures. Most irritating to the politic in Rome at this moment is the Chicago­based Sister of Notre Dame, Margaret Ellen Traxler. Although Traxler has been a nun for 45 of her 62 years, she was almost expelled from her order for her involvement with an advertisement that went out in the New York Times in October 1984. 
Along with 24 other nuns, she has been under Papal investigation since signing the ad, published under the title "A Diversity of Opinions Regarding Abortion Exists Among Roman Cat­holics." Sponsored by a small Washington-based group called "Catholics for Free Choice," the adver­tisement argued that there was more than one "legitimate Catholic position" on the issue of abortion and used as evidence the signature of 97 prominent Catholics. 

Traxler claims that the ad was for­mulated as "a partial response to the highly-publicized anti-abortion state­ments of Archbishop John J. O'Connor of the New York archdiocese, later elevated to cardinal. His comments, ac­cording to the views of many, were clearly aimed at the Vice-Presidential candidate of the time, Geraldine Fer­raro, a member of O'Connor's archdiocese who had come out in favor of pro-choice. 
Statistics show that only 11 percent of Catholics disapprove of abortion in all circumstances. "We tried to put it in the mildest possible tones," said 
Traxler of the ad. "We could have said 
89 percent of Catholics approve abor­tion under some circumstances." 
"(O'Connor's speech) was an at­tempt to rig the election on the basis of this one issue. So we called for some balance in the discussion," said Trax­ler. 
Also among those who had signed the document were two priests and two re­ligious brothers. When the prefect of the Vatican's Congregation on Religi­ous and Secular Institutes Archibishop Jean Jerome Hamer wrote to the offend­ing signers, asking for a recanting of the declaration, only the four gentlemen gave in. The 24 nuns in­volved wouldn't budge. Traxler said she did not believe that she could have done so (recanted) "under any circum­stances." 
Even Chicago Cardinal Joseph Ber­nardin acknowledged that "it was en­tirely possible that the offending nuns might have been expelled because they 'directly challenged the Church's con­stant teachings about the immorality of abortion."' This, however, didn't al­ter the decision of any of the sister. They held fast to their beliefs. 
This may lend to the impression that Traxler has always been merelY. a trouble-maker within the Church. That is not true. Traxler is, among other things, the founder of the Institute of Women Today, founder of the National Coalition of American Nuns, co-founder 
of the Inter-Religious Task Force on Soviet Jewry, an adviser to the World 
P.O.BoxQ 


Marching Band gets credit for dedication 
Dear Editor: 
With all the hubbub lately about who the next Notre Dame president will be and whether the giant sprinkler on the Fieldhouse Mall should be razed or kowtowed to, there is one group on campus who is deprived of the recogni­tion and support it deserves: the Marching Band. 
I am a senior this year, and I think I can safely say that in my three years under the dome I have not seen more spirit (the lifeblood of Notre Dame) and dedication in any other group. But it's not just on Saturdays that the Band per­sonifies this spirit. It's every day when they march out to Green Field and monotonously rehearse the songs that echo their hard work and sound A­number-one on Saturdays. 
At the risk of sounding corny, I have Council of Churches and organizer of countless workshops and projects dealing with interracial justice. Her awards include medals from the State of Israel, Chicago Catholic Women and Saint Theresa's College in Winona, Min­nesota. She has been active in causes since her first march for equal rights in Selma, Alabama. 

Her main cause at the moment, however, is that of women in the Cath­olic Church. "(I) view Pope John Paul II as the misguided defender of a dying patriarchical system that represents neither the will of God nor the essense of the Catholic Church." Traxler con­siders herself representitive of two eras, caught between the old way of thinking and the new. 
Such a figure of strength is surely necessary in these turbulent times after the Second Vatican Council issued the historic statement urging religious wo­men to ease their old restrictions in or­der to capture the intentions of their founders, and in the process, to re­evaluate their calling and the form their calling took. While the 1965 state­ment seemed to many a recognition of the new importance and freedom that the sisterhood was taking, it led to a sharp division between the older, more conservative nuns and those usually younger, more liberal nuns who were delighted with this chance to merge in a small way with the secular life. 
Many women of both categories left the order as a result of this seemingly irreconcilable division. Between the year of the declaration's publication and 1984, some 62,000 nuns in the United States alone left the religious life. 
Traxler explains the massive exodus ~uite simply. "Most Catholic nuns were living in an unreal world," she says. She, sees a large part of the problem in the failure of the Church "to minister to all its people," by refusing to ordain women priests." 
Through her work with the prison sys­tem in Chicago, where she has aided female prisoners through their terms for many years, Traxler has decided in favor of the ordination of female priests. "Male prison chaplains," she explained," usually do not relate well to female inmates, and for that reason 
(I) would like to be ordained." 
While she seems to inspire contro­versy wherever she goes, Traxler's most publicized skirmish to date has been against the 1982 endorsement of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops for a Constitutional Amend­ment, proposed by Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, which would have allowed state legislatures to restrict or even ban abortions. Along with the Na­tional Coalition of American Nuns, which Traxler helped organize in 1969 and which is the first and only organi­zation of feminist sisters in the United States, Traxler condemned the Bis­hops' support statement. Issuing her own opinion on the Phil Donahue Show, she said that "the Catholic hierarchy would be better advised to educate men on the responsibilities of fatherhood." 
All this has been submitted as some­thing different for you to read and for you to form an opinion about. Yes, there was a time when women would simply go to church on the arms of their hus­bands or next to their fathers and not really think about their purpose there, not within the physical building but within the hierarchy and theology of the Church. There was a time when wo­men who wanted to devote themselves to God and their Church settled down to silence and obedience by becoming Sisters of one order of the other, pas­sively teaching the Word to school children and villagers in far-off lands. But times have changed. 
Gertie Wimmer is a senior En­glislv'German major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
always maintained that catching the Band marching out to practice on one of my occasional forays to the library, and hearing the fight song and subse­quent drumbeat, gives me enough pep to get through an additional ten pages before I visit the land of Nod. I guess you could equate it to a human Vivarin pill. 
Seriously, though, I firmly believe that the Band is one of the best things about Notre Dame. Their perpetual 
Garry Trudeau 

spirit and the halftime fun they have provided me with will reserve a place for them in my heart as one of the thumbs-up groups at this place. 
I have only one more thing to add: make it a good show on Saturday. I think that seeing the Lions get thrown to the Christians would be much more enjoyable with a little musical accom­paniment. 
John McConville Carroll Hall 


Quote of the day 

"Happiness is the only good. The place to be happy is here. The time to be happy is now. The way to be happy is to make others so." 
Robert Ingersoll 
(1833-1899) 
General Board 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 
Ihe Observer ... 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager .... , ........ Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary carol Creadon their authors. Column space is availabltl to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letlers, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
In the board we 

six Holy Cross priests. In 1967,

KATHY MARTIN assistant features editor however, that clerical Board in­itiated the first major reorgani­The Board of Trustees is the zation of its government in 125 governing body for all academic, years by giving their sole control 
1

financial, investment. public, of the University to laymen as le­and student affairs at Notre gal trustees of Notre Dame's en­Dame, but how many students dowment. They created the Fel­are aware of their activities and lows of the University and the the role the Trustees play in predominantly lay Board ofTrus­preserving the Catholic tradition tees. and heritage of Notre Dame? The Board has made the major deci­Notre Dame was the first and sions through the University's the largest major Catholic Amer­142 years of growth, from the ican university to change to admittance of women to Notre shared lay-clerical control. Fol­Dame to investments of the en­lowing Vatican Council II. it was dowment to the election of each Notre Dame's purpose to give new President. laymen a more active and re­
sponsible role in the administra­

Father Hesburgh described the tion of the University's affairs. Ac­Notre Dame's Board of Trustees cording to Father Hesburgh, it as "truly unique, a microcosm of was a practical move to add com­our country." "We have Trustees petent and professional laymen that are black. white, men, wo­to the Board. "The university was men, Hispanic, Protestant. one getting so big." he said. "With a Jew, and they come from all over growing endowment, a hotel the country and beyond," he business and radio station on said. Of the 50 members of the campus, and costs of three quar­Board, 2.3 have earned doctorate ter million a day to run the place, degrees, roughly half are Notre the University budget was far big­Dame alumni. and 21 have aca­ger than the budget of the Holy demic experience as teachers, Cross Order." deans, and presidents of univer­sities. The Trustees represent a Father Hesburgh said there cross-section of the country, were special meetings in 1967 from New York to California, Mas­to obtain permission to turn the sachusetts to Oregon, from Illi­control and legal assets of the nois to Texas and Florida. Some University over to the lay Board. trustees even come from as far He had to meet with the Holy as London and Panama. Cross Order, the state of Indiana, and even with Rome, because the 
r The Observer/Margaret Mannion Since the founding of Notre Church needed permission to 
r Dame in 1844 under charter give away more than $10,000. 
r from the State of Indiana, the "The University was already
r University has been governed by worth a half billion," he said, 
r a Board of Trustees, originally "and we gave the title and powers 
I 
I 
r 
Who's who: the members of NO's Bo
r 
I ERIC M. BERGAMO Henry G. Cisneros is mayor of dustry. He holds degrees in naval chairman of the board and chief the United States Catholic Con­I 
features copy editor San Antonio, Tex. and is presi­science and commerce from executive officer of Montgomery ference Office of International 
r 
dent of the National League of Notre Dame and is a former pres­Elevator Company. Justice and Peace. 
r 
Cities. ident of the Notre Dame Alumni Philip M. Hawley is chairman Ignacio E. Lozano, Jr., is a 
r 
r The Board of Trustees is com­Thomas A. Coleman Is a 1956 Association. and chief executive officer of 194 7 journalism graduate of prised of49 members. The tfUS'o graduate of Notre Dame and Philip J. Faccenda has served Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc. Notre Dame and is publisher of
r 
r tees come {rom the clergy, partner of Adler, Coleman and as general counsel and vice pres­of Los Angeles. La Opinion. He served as Amer­
r academics, business and {rom Company. ident for student affairs at Notre father Theodore M. Hesburgh, ican Ambassador to El Salvador government. Arthur J. Declo is chairman of Dame. A 1952 graduate of Notre C.S.C., is president of Notre in 1976-77. Father Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., the board and chief executive of­Dame, he is a former president Dame and has received the frank E. Mackie, Jr., serves as Is a 1953 Notre Dame graduate ficer of Skyline Corporation. He of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­Medal of Freedom and honorary chairman and chief executive of­and serves as executive director received an honorary degree ciation. degrees from I I 0 universities. ficer of The Mackie Company, of the Helen Kellogg Institute for from Notre Dame in 1975. Sister Allee Gallin, O.S.U., is father Edmund P Joyce, Inc. International Studies. He is also Arlene B. Reed-Delaney is a executive director of the Associ· C.S.C., is a 19.37 graduate of Donald J. Matthews is a 1955 a professor of economics at psychiatrist sllecializing in the ation of Catholic Colleges and Notre Dame and has served as graduate of Notre Dame and 
Notre Dame. treatment of actolescents and Universities. executive vice president of Notre senior vice president ofJohnson 
William Aramony is president young adults. She is a regent Robert W. Galvin serves as Dame since 1952. He is also and Higgins. of United Way of America and emerita of the New York State chairman of Motorola Inc. He is chairman of the Faculty Board in Archbishop Mark G. McGrath, United Way International. Board of Regents. also chairman of Illinois Institute Control of Athletics and of the C.S.C., graduated from Notre 
Father Thomas E. Blantz, Joseph F. Dillon is a 1948 of Technology's trustess. University Building Committee. Dame in 1945 and has been 
C.S.C., is the chairman of the de­Notre Dame graduate and direc­Father John C. Gerber, C.S.C., JohnA. Kaneb is president and Archbishop of Panama since partment of history at Notre tor of marketing for Cole As­is a 195.3 graduate of Notre founder of The Catamount Com­1969. Dame. sociates, Inc. He is honorary Dame and serves as superior of panies. Andrew J. McKenna serves as 
Roger E. Blrk is a chairman president of the Notre Dame Moreau Seminary. Terrence R. Keeley is a 1981 vice chairman of the Board of emeritus of Merril Lynch and Alumni Association and an ex of­Roland D. Grimm is president graduate of Notre Dame and a Trustees and is a 1951 graduate Company, Inc. and was a director ficio member of the Board of of Faneuil Management Corpora­fixed income analyst with Paine of Notre Dame. He is a director of the New York Stock Exchange Trustees. tion and holds directorships in Webber International. of the Chicago Bears, Chicago between 1982 and 1985. Anthony f. Earley Is a 1947 the Boston Globe, McCaw Com­Elizabeth Topham Kennan Cubs and The Tribune Company. 
John Brademas served for 22 graduate of Notre Dame and munications and Northland In­serves as president of Mount Newton N. Minow is a former years in Congress from Indiana's serves as president and chief vestment Corporation. Holyoke College, South Hadley, chairman of the Federal Commu­Third District and was House operating officer of Chave and Edmond R. Haggar, Sr., has a Mass. nications Commission and is a majority whip for his last four Earley, Inc. He is a former pres­degree in business administra­Donald R. Keough is the chair­partner in the Chicago law firm years. He is currently president ident of the Notre Dame Alumni tion and acoounting from Notre man of the Board ofTrustees and of Sidley and Austin. 
of New York University. Association. Dame and is chairman of the is president and chief operating Timothy O'Meara is provost of John B. Caron is a 1945 Robert A. Erkins is president board of Haggar Apparel Com­officer of The Coca-Cola Compa­Notre Dame and Kenna Professor graduate of Notre Dame and is of the International Seafood pany. ny. of Mathematics. president of Caron International, Conference and is a consultant Bernard J. Hank, Jr., is a 1951 Father William M. Lewers, Frank J. Pasquerilla serves as C.S.C., serves as the director of chairman of the board and pres-
a textile manufacturing firm. in the international seafood in-graduate of Notre Dame and 


of the University over to the Trus­tees without asking for anything, with no conditions. It had to have been the largest amount ever 
handed over to lay control." 
According to the Statutes of Notre Dame, the Fellows of the University are a self perpetuating body of 12 members. Six mem­bers are Holy Cross priests, or clerical fellows, and six members 
are lay fellows. Six of these fel­lows hold office ex officio, name­ly, the Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross order, the President of the University, the Provost, the Executive Vice President, and the Chairman and Secretary of the Board of Trus­tees. All other fellows hold office terms ofsix years, and are simul­taneously members of the Board of Trustees. The University Pres­ident acts as Chairman, and the fellows meet annually. The duties of their office include electing the Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote, adopting and amending the bylaws of the Uni­versity, preserving the physical property and material goods of Notre Dame, and "preserving the essential character of {he Univer­sity as a Catholic institution of higher learning." 
The Board of Trustees is a 50­member body including ex of­ficio members as follows: the clerical fellows and the President and Honorary President of the Alumni Association. All other Trustees serve terms of three years, and two of the Trustees must be recent graduates of the University, one male and one female, under the age of.30, who only serve one three-year term. 
The retirement age for Trustees 
is 70, at which time the retired 
Trustee has the status of Trustee 
Emeritus, and may still attend 
meetings, although he has no 
vote. 

The Board meets biannually and its seven standing commit­tees reflect its broad range of University control as follows: Ex­ecutive, Nominating, Academic and Faculty Affairs, Student Af­fairs, Financial Affairs, Invest­ment, and Public Relations and Development. The Board ap­proves the budget among other duties, but it is unique from other university boards in that all aca­demic regulations are left to the Academic Council, a 60 member board comprised of administra­tion, faculty, and students. 
Father Hesburgh said he would not change a thing about Notre Dame's Board ofTrustees. "They are not just businessmen who are barely involved with the Uni­versity," he said. "I have had no problem at all with the Board, "probably because of the mem­bers' academic experience, their knowledge about investing the endowment and running the budget, and because so many of them are alumni." 
Notre Dame's Board of Trus­tees will make the decision on a new president to succeed Father Hesburgh's .35-year term this Friday. 
note: There will be an interview ofthe uice-presiden t ofthe Board of Trustees in tomorroul_'s issue. 
rd of Trustees 
ldent of Crown American Corpo­ration. He has been decorated by the governments of Israel and Italy and received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 
1982. Martha Peterson has served as president of Beloit College from 1975 until her retirement in 1981. Jane C. Pfeiffer was the former chairman of the board of the Na­tional Broadcasting Company and holds directorships in a number of companies and insti­tutions. Percy A. Pierre is a 196 I graduate of Notre Dame and president of Prairie View A&M University. Ernestine M. Raclin is a graduate of Saint Mary's college and is chairman of the board of Ist Source Bank of South Bend. John M. Regan, Jr., was chair­man of the board of Marsh and McLennan Companies, Inc. Joseph A. Reich, Jr. is execu­tive vice president of a commer­cial and investment real estate company in Colorado Springs. He is a 1957 graduate of Notre Dame and is president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. John A. Schneider is an inves­tor and consultant in the televi­sion and cable television indus­try. He graduated from Notre 
Dame in 1948 and received an honorary doctor of laws in 1979 from Notre Dame. 
Alfred Stepan serves as dean of the Faculty of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. He is a 1958 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Frank E. Sullivan serves as president of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company of Newark and is a 1945 graduate of Notre Dame. He received an honorary degree from Notre Dame In 1984. 
Kathleen M. Sullivan is a 1978 graduate of Notre Dame and is . an assistant professor of biology at the University of Miami, Fla. 
Jerome W. Van Gorkom IS former under-secretary of state for management in the State De­partmentand was chiefexecutive officer of Trans Union Corpora­tion. He received an honorary doctor of laws from Notre Dame in 198.3. 
Father Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., is provinicial superior of the Indian Province of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. He is a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Robert K. Wilmouth serves as president and chief executive of­ficer of National Futures Associ­
ation  in  Chicago  and  holds  a  
master's  degree  from  Notre  
Dame.  

-

Micky and Davy prove that they can be as much fun as a barrel of ••• (guess). 
Monkeeshines 
GERTIE WIMMER 
features copy editor 
I got ready, feeling vaguely like 
Cinderella on her way to the 
Prince's place. I was going to see 
the Monkees. I was going to 
review the Monkees. It was one 
of those cases where dreams do 
come true. 
I always wanted to see the Monkees (Who didn't?), but of course by the time I was "old enough," the television super­kids had gone in different direc­tions. Micky (George Michael) Dolenz had gotten into television production in England, where he now lives with his wife and three daughters. Peter Tork (Torkelson) was living with his giriJ'~end in New York. He had formed a cult-status band called "The Peter Tork Project," about which little was generally heard. 
Davy Jones, who I had a crush on before I knew there was a dif­ference between boys and girls, I had last seen on a talk show talking about his lovely wife and his many daughters. Then I knew how old we all had become. 
None of them looked old though when they bounded onto the stage at about quarter after nine last night to the roars of the crowd. They were bouncing, singing, joking and gagging like they had so many sitcoms ago, and we couldn't help but respond. Although the press box was relatively calm, from my vantage point (I was standing and dancing) I saw select celebrity feet tapping. 
And then the Monkees can1t on. And they were better than a 

date to the prom (certainl~ better 
than the dateJ took to my prom!) 
The concert upon reflection was 
great, the reliving ofa childhood 
fantasy, a great thrill yet with that 
aftertaste ofpain that came when 
when I realized I could never go 
back to their era, the era of my 
childhood, again. 

The Monkees made thdr grand entrance accompanied by the theme from their television program--a style to which their many generations of fans were accustomed. Halfway through, the recording got stuck and the comedy began. With a quite literal explosion the band launched into "Last Train to Clarksville," one of their first commercia! hits in the '60s. 
"Stepping Stone," "No Time," and "Day Dream Believer" fol­lowed while the crowd sang along. The three reUnited Monkees took turns singing lead vocals, with Micky taking the majority of the tunes including a rockin' version of "Going Down" which was the equivalent (for him and quite a few members of the audience) of an entire semester of aerobic workouts. 
Davy stuck to quieter ballads like "I Wanna Be Free," which he said reflected back to that time when boys liked girls, girls liked boys, and the only one who swung both ways was Tarzan. (You had to be there.) His rendi­tion of "Valerie" brought thousands of squeals f.rom what seemed a largely high school crowd. 
About half way through the hour the Monkees spent on stage, Peter got his chance in the spotlight, as he started to tell the history of the band. He sung "Auntie Griselda," a song un­known to many people which I fortunately had on one Monkees album at home. Peter captured the crowds' approval by dancing on the speakers at both sides of the stage, something neither of his cohorts had done." 
By the end of the show, only one girl had hugged Davy on stage (Who was that and how did she get up there?, I ask.) All three Monkees had touched hands in the crowd, and several bouquets of flowers were tossed up. They had danced a chorus line--Davy with hat and cane. They had ban­tered in the old NBC series style, having fun on stage the same way they used to on TV (then with Mike Nesmith, who was notably absent from all press photos.) 
The Monkees returned for one encore which included the songs "Listen to the Band" and "Pleasant Valley Sunday." They concluded their triumphal Tues­day night performance by walking offstage in the infamous Monkee walk, a walk which every­one and their best friend had been doing in front of the ACC before the concert. The group left the flowers on stage, (or would have) but I, being the in­vestigative type, received per­mission from the stage crew to see them. The cards contained girls addresses and phone num­bers (sheesh!) which the band never saw--something to keep in mind. 
The Observer 

-Waller 
continuedfrom page 12 
who quickly contribute~ to the program last year and now see the brunt of the playing time. 
Despite finishin!:S with a 12-19 record last season, the then­freshmen gained valuable ex­perience through their court time. The result has been ob­vious in this year's 25-6 record, a shot at a tournament bid, nine consecutive victories, and a relatively pleased coach. 
"We even caught him smiling a few times this weekend," said Waller after 
the Irish won three matches in as many days. But Lambert, though pleased, is not content. 
"We had a good weekend but we have no easy matches remaining," noted Lambert. "We can't stub our toe. We can't afford a loss if we are even thinking about a possible NCAA bid." 
The Irish will be thinking win tonight as they travel to Chicago to face Illinois­Chicago for the first matchup between the two teams. The match will be televised by Sports Vision of Chicago on Sun­day, Nov. 16, at 5:30p.m. EST. 

The Observer Is always looking for talent. If you have any, come to our offices 
Mike Scott of the Houston Astros won the 1986 
and start working on your newspaper. 
Cy Young Award yesterday in New York, edging Fernando Valenzuela of the Los Angeles 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Cent~r. accepts classified ~dvertlsing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. The Observer Sam! Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next--day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Wordprocessing-Typing 272·8827 Wordprocessing Call LaVonne 287-9024 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll MRS. COKER, 233-7009. NEED A UTILE MAGIC IN YOUR LI!=E? CALL TIM HANLON, 256 -1353 Ventriloquis~agician One of the best, honest. O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. THE OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NET­WORK IMPORTANT MEETING THURSDAY 6 NOV., 7 P.M., AT THE C.S.C. O.D.N. PROJECT TO BE SELECTED. O.D.N. O.D.N. -BE THERE -O.D.N. O.D.N. LOST/FOUND I LOST: YELLOW CAT. LAST SEEN NEAR ST. JOSEPH'S HALL. REWARD. CALL 277-2950, EXT. 2204 OR 272­3429. LOST: SIX KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEM!!! LOST ON HY.31. ANNETIE 284-4372. ............................... LOST: BLACK RAYBAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES ON HY.31. ANNETIE 284-4372. LOST: N.D. STARTER JACKET (THE KIND WITH NOTRE DAME PRINTED ACROSS THE !=RONT) WAS TAKEN !=ROM THEODORE'S ON THE NIGHT 01= NOV. 7. IT WAS ORIGINALLY PLACED NEAR THE ENTRANCE. IF YOU PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL MARK AT 1712. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. STUDENT TICKET BOOK FOUND IN SOUTH DINING HALL LAST SUNDAY NITE. CALL JAMES AT X3185 TO IDEN­TIFY. Lost at Senior Bar after SMU game: One navy blue mens jacket. If found please call 288-2749. Thanks. LOST: GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF, probably in South Dining Hall. Call Elaine at 272-6016 after 7 pm. REWARD $$$.  In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Student ticketlll Call Theresa X4041111 Will pay bigl GREEN BEER FOR PEEN ST. GA'S. $$$$$ ALSO. CALL FAT TOM X1702. Waitresses, Waiters needed at Knol· lwood Country Club. No experience nee· essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277-1541. RIDE NEEDED TO CORNING, NY (OR AREA-ELMIRA, WAVERL Y,BATH) FORT-BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL ANNE AT 1260 TILL 1:OOAM. Are you going to WASHINGTON D.C. or BALTIMORE for Thanksgiving? I could really use a ride. Can leave anytime Tues or Wed. Call Rossana X2903. Thanxs RIDERS NEEDED to Madison.Leaving Thurs 13,returning Sun 16.Mike 1612 NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE! WILL PAY$! CALL TOM-1774 Year round student representatives needed lo work for (2) national group travel companies. Earn $'s and free trips-Year Round. Next tripa-Miami, Ft. Lauderdale,Daytona Beach. Call 1-800­1654-6933. This could be a member of your school staff. I NEED A RIDE TO U OF I CHAMPAIGN NOV. 14 CALL JOHN 1050 DESPERATE! NEED RIDE TO CQL.UM­BUS, OH 111.21 FOR OSU<MICH GAMEl WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. CALL DAN AT 3677. ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciarvpsychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a child's needs and can provide a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect (212)-724-7942. HELP THIS TURKEY GET TO ST LOUIS FOR THANKSGIV­ING! MOM AND DAD MISS ME. Will share expenses and will be ETER­NALLY GRATEFUL! Call Laura at 3722. MADISON FOR BREAK? I NEED A RIDE. WILLING TO SHARE COST. KATH 4349 FORSALE .1 GUITAR 12 STRING, $160. 277-4482 AFTER 6.  NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1218 ······································ I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL FRED AT 288-2821 Need Penn State GA Tix. Will pay big bucks. Call Joe after 6p.m. 287-4561. NEED 1-4 PENN STATE GA'S CAlL X2266 I NEED PSU stu tickets AND YUGOS­LAVIA studs & GAs DOC 283-3380 PLEASE HELP!! I need PENN STATE G.A.'s or Student tix. call even. after 10 pm. Thanks Ann, 284-5454 PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. 277-0296. ................................................. NEED 1 PENN ST GA CALL MIKE 1562 ·············································· NEED ONE STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET FOR PENN STATE. CALL MATIS. AT 1750. need PSU GA;s 277-9794 CALL 1400-1 need 1 PENN ST GA or STUDENT Ticket! Bob$$$ NEED 4 PENN sT sTD Til( c:.\L.:L.:.jil.:i.. X 2949 si-~"d~-~-~-~~"d··C3;·;i~k~i~-~~~;;~;;·i~~-'P~~~ State. Willing to pay "scalper's prices" This is getting desperate. Call 2339. ············ ······························ Need student and GA tickets for Penn State. Will give you my roommate in return for a good seat. Call Paula at 2976. .................... ...... ........... DO YOU NEED MONEY? I NEED 2 PEN­NST GA'S. CALL KATHRYN 284-5428. Will pay cash dollars for ·2· P~-~-~.. si~ie student or GA tickets Please call Kevin at 277·3786 NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's CALL JOHN 1689 MUST HAVE 4 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN!' CALL DAVE AT 2271 3 STUDENT PENN ST TIX 4 SALE TO BEST OF!=ER(S). CHRIS X3113. NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S BADLY. CALL 1251 I NEED PENN ST. TIX PLEASE CALL JIM 289-3482 AFTER 5 P.M. SELL ME YOUR 4 PENN STATE GA'SIII!! please. X232-5743 Elisa  NEED PENN ST GA'S -FRED 289-9225 NEED PENN STATE TIX CALL MIKE AT 2208 OR2163 PLEASE HELP ME OUT I NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE. 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUDENT OR 3 G.A.'S. PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 2247 OR 2317. WABWanted: 4 Penn St. Tics S. Beckman 513-738-6502 days, 513-661-9341 after 6 set the pin down, let the fingers do the walking and give me a call. I NEED 4 PENN GA Tickets. Call MO at 1813. NEED PENN TIX-STUD OR GA. PLEASE CALL DIANE-37381 MOM IS DYING! NEED PENN ST TIX. CALL LD AT 1107 Sports fanactic brother says he's coming to see me but really just wants to see Penn. State game. Got a ticket to sell?? Patty 2784 JOE PATERNO IS THE NEXT UNIVER­SITY PRESIDENT!!! Actually, he's just a man whose ago is too big. Contribute to reducing his ego by selling me your GAs to Saturday's game. I need two of 'em! Call 239-5303 and ask for Trip. Help!!!!II Need 3 GA's for Penn State or as many as you will sell me. Parents are coming inll So if you have any Tix call 3830 or 1232 ~~~d 3Psii' si~d~~i13:.\·s cALL. i5'l5 Well, Now I need MORE Penn State stud. Tix. There are MORE SACRIFICES to per­form! The YOCKMONSTER needs to bring even more victims to NO!!! Please help me satisfy my yearning for blood Call Jeff at 232-5478. Desperately seeking 2 Penn St student tix. Call 2875. Please. Need 2 Penn St. G.A.'s. Call Todd at 1050. ...............................•.. COT is coming and he needs 2 PENN ST TICKS (stud or GA) call Bob at X3569 if you can help Need Penn State GA's. Will Pay. Call 1599. Need one Senior Stu or two GA's for Penn. $$$ x3258 :.\ii~~~-i~~~ii ;~~ c~i;;~;~~~~~-~t;~;·~~~id be better than watching ND beat USC? I have two GA's at X1078. Ask for Colin.  I NEED 2 PSU GAs--X4311 NEED 2 OR 4 PENN ST. GA'S CALL JOHN: 1750 HELP-NEED PENN ST. TICKETS-AT LEAST 2 GA'S AND 2 OTHERS STU­DENT OR GA. CALL JOE AT 1890 .......................... IF YOU DON'T SELL ME YOUR TWO GA'S PENN STATE TIX. MY BROTHER IS FLYING B-52 OVER NOTRE DAME STADIUM AND WILL DROP AS MANY BOMBS HE WANTS. SO, PLEASE SELL ME YOUR TIX BEFORE I DIE. CALL ME, JJ X32JJ OR STOP AT 141 KEENAN. NEED 2 PENN. TKTS. GA OR STU­DENT. SHARON 284-4346. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$ OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 10-5:30. 233­2342. ARTS AND LEITERS COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS OR CALL 283-1163. $12.00 ············································· HELLO K·TOWN, Today, it snowed. Where's the CD player? Do I get the Mercedes keys? I'm still waiting on my prev1ous requests! Hello, Amanda Sorry, Mel, that's my dog. You gossrp! INTERESTED IN COMBINING COMMU· NITY SERVICE AND THEOLCGY? CONSIDER THEO 273. INQUIRE AT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS R.E.M FANS!---The end is near. Only five copies of our tape are left. This is your last chance to hear impossible-to-find im­ports, b-sides, and flexi-discs. Act now or be forever unhip. ALBUMS & TAPES THE LA TEST RELEASES POP,ROCK, SOUL ONLY $6.00 CALL JOHN X-1745 ·································· '""'"''I NEED 2 PENN STATE TICK­ETS ·GA OR STUDENT!!!!! ......... WILL PAY$$$$$$ -CALL STACY AT 2804 TODAYIIIIIII "These guys are weirder than I am!"-­"Weird" AI Yankovic THE WALLETS  DANCEr DANCE! DANCE! LOGAN CENTER DANCE !=riday. Nov. 14 7:30·10:00 p.m. SOPHOMORES: ROLF'S POOL PARTY! COME JOIN US IN EVERY· THING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO DO IN A POOL--WED, NOV. 12 ................................... Are you running a D&D game. and need another player? If so call 4278 YOU'RE CORDIALLY INVITED TO AT­TEND A PRESENTATION ON CAREERS AND COMMERCIAL BANKING AND TRUST AND FINAN­CIAL SERVICES SPONSORED BY THE NORTHERN TRUST BANK OF CHICAGO ON THURSDAY, NOV. 13, FROM 7 TO 9 IN THE UPPER LOUNGE OF • THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED. Whatever happened to Chuck Freeby? ATIENTION VOLUNTEERS: If you would like to attend orientation for SHEL· TEA FOR THE HOMELESS call 282· 2397 from 9-5 or 684-3864 5-11 by Nov 14 SENIORSII' You are cordrally rnvrted to the Senror Class Block Party for the Northeast Neighborhood thrs Frrday from 4 to 6:30 pm at the A.C. C. 50 CENT BEVERAGES SENIORS!!' V -I'm strll drsoriented! -T This IS because it's great to.. ~~~ ..y~·u·r name rn the paper, rsn't rt MARK SKOL­NICK!? Cheer up. Marly. It's not qurte a bouquet of roses, but then again, when do I do the usual? Going crazy II That's why Lisa I Best wishes on the actuarial exam! Lrsa II I'VE ALWAYS BEEN SUCH A NICE GIRL. HOW COULD I GET SOMETHING LIKE BORBORYGMUS?! MY PARENTS ARE CELEBRATING THEIR 25TH ANNIVERSARY OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK and I don't even have a rrde home to ST. LOUIS yet' If you have room please give me a call at 2274 or 239-7471. Ask for Pete. Bye-Bye to the adolescent years. Hey, how about the tote board figures for your week of indulgence, B.L.? It should be a crazy five days! Happy 21st Birthday Bruce. Your nutty-crazy roommate, Paul.  
LOST BLUE HC WORKS OF CHAUCER. I MISS IT!! II= FOUND CALL ALISON 2778 LOST: LONG WOOL BLACK DRESS COAT BY "PORTRAIT". MISTAKENLY TAKEN F ROM DILLON'S FORMAL LAST FRIDAY. REWARD IF FOUND­PLEASE CALL LISA 284-4329 LOST about two weeks ago, my L.L. Bean, blue and black plaid jacket. Call Margaret, X4087. LOST an envelope of pictures in the North Dining Hall about a week ago. They have great sentimental value. Call Mar­garet, X4087. WANTED  SKIS OLIN UNUSED t95CM SIZE 13 LOOK BNDGS $220 277-4482 AFTER 6 MACINTOSH Computer, new Main Logic Board under warranty, includes 128K main unit, keyboard and mouse. $995 Call 277-9185 TICKETS I NEED PENN ST GAs.272-6306 BUBBLE BUS IS COMING!! BUBBLE BUS IS COMING!! THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST...PLEASE HELP ME...NEED 26 PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352.  I ROADTRIPPED TO LAST YEAR'S PENN STATE GAME Have pity on me and sell me two GA's for this year's game. Call Max at 283-1384 Need Penn St. tix Call Jim at 1874 I ha~~, ;;;y· ~~~sibillties you k~~:,;; · -London Fall '86 ........................ NEED 6 Psu TIXS;4 ToCiE'ri-iE'ii t:.iici< 3591 w"AN·;:·;:o·s'eii.NorfiE.oAME..ciiusH PENN STATE? 2 STUDENT TIX FOR SALE. CALL 1443 OR 3861. Needed: Tixs for Penn Stat~~-GA ~; St·~·­·. dent Call 288-9483  Help! My parents are threatening to erase me from their will if they don't see Penn State! Need 2 GA's at X1078.(Colin) NEEDED 2 PENN TIX, CALL 1670. AVOID FROSTBITE & MAKE MONEY FOR IT: CALL 4280 & SELL MATI YEA PENN STATE TIX I NEED 2 OR 3 PENN ST. GA'S REAL BAD. CALL PAT AT 2034. FAMILY BACK HOME WANTS TO SEE NO BEATLSU.I NEEDTIX. CALL MIKE­2371 I WOULD DO ANYTHING -WELL, JUST ABOUT ANYTHING FOR 2 OR 4 PENN STATE GA'SI CALL KATHLEEN 4036. ................................................................ DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SI CALL KERSTIN 4036  "Their sound is difficult to describe, but their show is unforgettable."-Courier, Waterloo, lA THE WALLETS Help! I need 6 tixs for USC vs. ND in L.A. I don't want to have to sit in the • & X USC section!PLEASE CALL Michelle 284-5096 LINDA DVORAK II You are a special girl­-I had such a great time last weekend!! You're so cute! Let's get together soon­-How 'bout Macri's? Love, Tim THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL KRIS­TEN AT 284-4360. RIDER NEEDED TO PITIA30STON OVERT DAY. KRIS 284-5144. NEED A RIDE TO NEW JERSEY OR  ···························································· SAB Presents THE WALLETS Sat., Nov. 15 9:30p.m. Thaodore's FREE!!! "You can put these guys on the bus to the Twilight Zone." -Red Carpet Lounge, St.Cioud,MN THE WALLETS 'Why didn't you warn us they were moonmen?"--Geo. Mason U,Fairfax THE WALLETS Camp Aiello this Friday. Be there to wit­ness the return of director Paul Aiello in town for a special guest appearance. Notre Dame Crew team, the craziness continues. You thought a 24 hour run was long? Come watch 50 continuous hours of erging outside the South Dining hall. Spenser your favorite rower and watch them sweat. Support the only 5 a.m. social a~ernative.  
WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO WEEKSI FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151  BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX -CALL T J -283-1899 NEED PENN STATE GAs ·CALL 283­3848. Need Penn St Tix 2 GA aod 1 STUD $$$ Call Kevin at 272·8562  ················································· Need 2 ND-PSU G. A.'s &.•1 ND-PSU Student Tix -WILL PAY ANY PRICE Call: Gerry x1062 ····················· I BE HAVIN A PAIR OF PENN STGA'S ON THE 50 YO LINE. IF YOU BE WAN­TIN EM, BE CALLIN THE DUDE. THE NUMBER BE BEIN 232-6153.  SELLING 1 PENN ST STU. TKT. PH 3797 BO MHAITH LIOM 2 PENN STATE Studs-GA's. Go raibh mhaith agat. Ph. 239 5370. Please help me! I need 2 Penn State tickets. Call Mike at 2787. Thanxl  NEAR BY AREAS. WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. CALL COLLEEN 284-5451. M-1 tried to laugh about it, cover it all up with lies ...but, BOYS BOYS DON'T CRY. ARE YOU JUMPING SOMEONE ELSE'S TRAIN? Or are you lost in A FOREST? Or maybe its M -M  HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY JO I LOVE YOU, VERY MUCH! HAPPY BIRTHDAYII ALL MY LOVE, KEVIN JANE: HERE'S TO SWALLOWING IN ST.LOUIS SORRY FOR THE BIG FOREHEAD GOOD DAY, MATE.  
I I  
I  
L  


November 12, 1986 The Observer page 9 
Sports Wednesdar 
AP Top 20 

The Top Twenty cottage footbatt teams 1n The Associated Press pot!, with first-place votes in paren­theses. this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Miami, Fla. (57) 9-0-0 1,195 2. Michigan (1 ) 9-0-0 1,102 3. Penn State (1) 9-0-0 1,075 4. Oklahoma 8-1-0 1,041 5. Arizona St. (1) 8-0-1 973 6. Nebraska 8-1-0 878 7. Texas A&M 7-1-0 830 8. Auburn 8-1-0 782 9. Ohio St. 8-2-0 711 10. Washington 7-2-0 606 11. Alabama 8-2-0 560 12. LSU 6-2-0 529 13. So. California 6-2-0 506 14. Arizona 7-2-0 415 15. Clemson 7-2-0 310 16. Stanford 7-2-0 249 17. Arkansas 7-2-0 242 18. Baylor 6-3-0 195 19. UCLA 6-3-0 95 20. Mississippi 6-2-1 68 

lnterhall Football 
Men's First Round Flanner 6, Morrissey 0 Howard 7, Zahm 0 
Men's Semifinals Stanford 21, Howard 0 Flanner 13, Sorin 0 
Men's Championship Stanford vs. Flanner at Notre Dame Stadium, Sunday 
Women's Semifinals Farley 12, Lyons 0 Breen-Phillips 18, Pasquerilla 
East 16 

Women's Championship Farley 18, Breen-Phillips 8 
SMC Semifinals McCandless 7, Holy Cross 6 LeMans 6, Regina 0 
SMC Championship LeMans 19, McCandless 6 
lnterhall Soccer 
First Round O.C. Hoobers 1,Dillon 0 Alumni 1, Keenan 0 Flanner 1, Grace 0 O.C. Spleiphs 1, Fisher 0 
Winner's Bracket O.C. Hoobers 1, Alumni 0 Flanner 1, O.C. Spleiphs 0 Flanner 2, O.C. Hoobers 1, OT 
Loser's Bracket Keenan 2, Dillon 1 Grace 1, Fisher 0 Grace 1, Keenan 0 Alumni 1, O.C. Spleiphs 0 Grace 2, Alumni 1 
Semifinals Grace vs. O.C. Hoobers at Stepan North, tomorrow at 4:30p.m. 
Finals Flanner vs. Grace-O.C. Hoobers winner at Stepan North, Sunday Flanner vs. Grace-O.C. Hoobers winner (if necessary) at Stepan North, Monday 

Send Your Love With Flowers! 
Corsages and Boutonnieres for Formals 


409 DIXIE WAY NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 call 272·NDND 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today 

Volleyball at IlL-Chicago 
Thursday 
No sports scheduled 
Friday 

Men's basketball vs. SIBENIK Hockey at Pointer Classic Volleyball at NSC Champion­ships SMC basketball vs. LAKE MICHIGAN COLLEGE SMC swimming at North Central College 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  
N.Y. Giants  8  2  0  .800  203  
Washington  8  2  0  .800  228  
Dattas  6  4  0  .600  253  
Philadelphia  3  7  0  .300  145  
St. Louis  2  8  0  .200  133  
Central  
Chicago  8  2  0  .BOO  226  
Minnesota  6  4  0  .600  238  
Detroit  3  7  0  .300  150  
Tampa Bay  2  8  0  .200  164  
Green Bay  9  0  .100  118  
West  
L.A. Rams  7  3  0  .700  164  
San Francisco  6  3  1  .650  254  
Atlanta  5  4  1  .550  198  
New Orleans  5  5  0  .500  181  

AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 
w L T Pet. PF N.Y. Jets 9 1 0 .900 272 New England 7 3 0 .700 274 Miami 4 6 0 .400 242 Buffalo 3 7 0 .300 189 Indianapolis 0 10 0 .000 111 
Central Cleveland 7 3 0 .700 7 Cincinnati 6 4 0 .600 237 Pittsburgh 3 7 0 .300 154 Houston 2 8 0 .200 184 
West Denver 8 2 0 .800 233 Kansas City 7 3 0 .700 232 L.A. Raiders 6 4 0 .600 191 Seattle 5 5 0 .500 192 San Diego 2 8 0 .200 198 
Sunday's Games Chicago at Atlanta Detroit at Philadelphia Houston at Pittsburgh Miami at Buffalo New York Giants at Minnesota New Orleans at St. Louis Seattle at Cincinnati Tampa Bay vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee New England at Los Angeles Rams Kansas City at Denver Indianapolis at New York Jets Dallas at San Diego Cleveland at Los Angeles Raiders 
Monday's Games San Francisco at Washington 

Corner Kicks: NOTRE DAME -151
WALES CONFERENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Adams Division Smythe Dvlslon OPPONENTS-67 W L T GF GA Pis. WL T GF GA Pts Quebec 7 5 4 18 65 54 Edmonton 10 6 1 21 74 58 
Penalties:

Montreal 7 5 3 17 58 54 Calgary 9 7 0 18 58 58 Hartford 5 4 3 13 41 47 Winnipeg 8 6 1 17 60 50 NOTRE DAME -378 Boston 6 7 1 13 48 51 Los Angeles 510 1 11 59 72 Buffalo 4 9 2 10 55 55 Vancouver 410 2 10 45 64 
OPPONENTS -326 

Patrick Division Norris Division 
Philadelphia 10 3 1 21 59 32 Toronto Pittsburgh 9 4 2 20 64 53 Detroit 
N.Y. 
Islanders 


8 6 1 17 59 46 St. Louis Washington 7 7 2 16 55 64 Minnesota New Jersey 6 7 1 13 51 66 Chicago 

N.Y. 
Rangers 3 7 4 10 53 62 


Last Night's Results 
Edmonton 3, N.Y. Islanders 2, OT Washington 2, Minnesota 2 Calgary 5, Vancouver 3 Los Angeles 4, Winnipeg 3 PA 
138 190 168 196 247 
120 168 191 269 265 
150 154 185 160 
PA 
187 153 266 217 260 
3 271 211 234 
155 202 181 185 251 
Sports Lists 
Saturday 

Only NFL Teams That Have 
Football vs. PENN STATE Men's and women's cross country at NCAA District IV 

Never Had Cheerleaders meet Volleyball at NSC tourney(day) Hockey at Pointer Classic Volleyball vs. RHODE IS­LAND (night) 
Sunday No sports scheduled 
Monday No sports scheduled 

New York Jets 
Tuesday 

Cleveland Browns 
SMC basketball at Glen Oaks College 

Pittsburgh Steelers 

Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L Philadelphia 5 2 Boston 3 2 New Jersey 2 4 New York 2 6 Washington 1 5 
Central Division Atlanta 5 1 Chicago 5 1 Milwaukee 5 2 Cleveland 3 3 Indiana 3 3 Detroit 2 3 
Western Conference Midwest Division 
w L Houston 4 1 Otah 3 2 Dallas 3 3 Denver 3 3 Sacramento 2 4 San Antonio 2 5 
Pacific Division L.A. Lakers 3 1 Golden State 3 3 L.A. Clippers 3 3 Seattle 3 3 Phoenix 2 4 Portland 2 5 
Last Night's Results New Jersey 114, Boston 110 New York 111, Phoenix 1 05 Chicago 112, Atlanta 110 Houston 116, San Antonio 95 Milwaukee 102, Indiana 94 Utah 104, Dallas 103 L.A. Clippers 115, Denver 112 Sacramento 119, Cleveland 114 Portland 126, Golden State 108 Philadelphia 121, Seattle 114 
Tonight's Games 
Milwaukee at Boston Chicago at Washington Phoenix at Detroit Houston at Dallas Sacramento at Denver 
7 4 3 17 46 44 7 6 1 15 39 38 4 5 4 12 42 43 

KEEPER G-S 
5 8 2 12 57 60 4 9 3 11 52 69 

Breslin 22-22 Mayo 2-0 Hartigan 2-0 
NOTRE DAME 22 OPPONENTS 22 
otre Dame Ave Apartments 


2bedrooms, 
completely furnished 
Second Semester 
Discount Program 
Call for Details 234-6647 

Pet.  GB  Source: Sports Features Syndicate Research  Observer Graphic/Mark Weimholt  
.714  
.600  1  

.333 2.5 .250 3.5 .167 3.5 
Soccer 
.833 .833 .714 .5 .500 2 .500 2 

.400 2.5 PLAYER, POS. G-S 
McCourt, F 22-22 Pet. GB Sternberg, MF 22-22 .800 Morris, F 22-21
.600 1 

.500 1.5 Guignon, ST 22-22 
.500 1.5 

.333 2.5 Behrje, MF 22-22 .286 3 Szanto, SW 15-14 .750 Murphy, F 22-0 .500 1 Lett, MF 22-7 
.500 1 

.500 1 Karle, MF 22-22 .333 2 Gross, WB 22-8 
.286 2.5 

Gluckow, WB 16-0 Lowney, SW 22-22 Augustyn, F 22-16 Pernsteiner, WB 15-10 Gerlacher, MF 20-1 Gordon, WB 18-0 McClanahan, ST 20-15 Reilly, MF 4-1 Flynn, WB 6-1 Others 
NOTRE DAME 22 OPPONENTS 22 

Final 
SOG 
57 
48 
61 
34 
36 
22 
13 
5 
15 
12 
1 
12 
30 
1 
6 
3 
0 
1 
0 
7 
361 
227 
GLS 25 0 0 
25 
56 
****************** 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
: ~ ~ Read : ~ ~ ! ~ Football ~ t i Notebook t t •very!Thursdayi 
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  

:****************: 
GLS  ASTS  PTS  
16 9 7 5 7 3 3 2 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2  6 4 10 5 1 3 2 0 2 4 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1  38 22 24 15 15 9 8 4 4 4 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 5  
56 25  40 15  152 65  
svs 111 2 2  so 6.5 0 0.5  RECORD 13-7-2 0-0-0 0-0-0  
115 114  7 3  13-7-2 7-13-2  


The Observer 

Good blend of experience, youth has SMC swimmers looking ahead 
By JANE SHEA Sports Writer 
With the arrival of four fresh­men and the return of an expe­rienced corps of swimmers that suffered only two gradua­tion losses, the Saint Mary's swim team is counting on a pro­ductive 1986-87 campaign. 
At least that's according to Saint Mary's head coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz, who will take her Belles squad into its first meet of the season Friday at North Central College. 
"We have a strong team this season,"said Kuzmitz, "and a variety of strokes which will add a lot of depth." 
This fact, along with a new schedule that features more teams of Saint Mary's caliber, 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
feld. "The girls have a great attitude together and they really work as a team. They have progressed a great deal this season." 
The strongest asset to the team this season was the con­sistent play of junior goalie 
M.J. Beetel. Coming into the net with little varsity experi­ence, Beetelled the defense as it improved steadily. 

I 
"The goalkeeping by M.J. be­came better and better all season long," said Lindenfeld. "Our defense started the season with little knowledge of how the other players would work on the field, but they have learned to work as a group. Our passing has improved and we are more confident." 
I 
While the defense supported the team, the forward line was 
I 
plagued with injuries halfway through the year. Co-captains 
Corrine DiGiacomo and Mary Wagner, the biggest scoring threats for the Irish, both were

t 
I lost for the season, substan­
tially reducing Notre Dame's t offensive production.I DiGiacomo ended her career 
I 
shortly after becoming the all­
time leading scorer in Irish his­

I 
tory.

I 
I 
Looking toward next season, Lindenfeld cannot help but be I concerned that the entire for­I ward line for the Irish will I graduate this year, leaving
I 
more holes to fill for the fall. 

~ 
I 
"All five of our {graduating)

I 
I seniors are on the offensive I side of the field. We will be I losing Meg (McGlinn) at left 
I 
wing, Corrine at left inner,

I 
Steph (Giggetts) at right inner,

I 
Mary at right wing and Ber­

I 
I 
nadette Suplick at forward,'' noted Lindenfeld. "Right now, I Annie McGlinn and Debbie I Charlesworth (saw) action and I (performed) well. They will 
I 
both be back next fall."

I 
Experience does return,

I 
however, at the defensive

I 
backs and links, spots where the Irish will look to be espe­cially strong. 
"Benet DeBerry, Caroline Berezny and Christine Sweeney are our stalwarts and they will all be back for us in the fall," said Lindenfeld. "We need to become more aggres­sive and really fight to be a really competitive team. The defense is the solid part of our squad." 

should  translate  into  a  good  
year.  
"We  are  swimming in  the  

NAIA this year,"said Kuzmitz, ''which is a better association for our team." 
Last Friday, the Belles were invited to swim in the Notre Dame Relays where they tied Marquette for fifth place out of 17 teams. 
"We swam excellently for our first meet," said Kuzmitz. "The races were close and we were up against some good swimmers." 
One Saint Mary's group, the 500-yard relay team, swam particularly well on Friday, placing second in the event. The team, which consisted of senior captains Mary Fisher and Patty Juckneiss, junior Mary Hogan, and freshmen 

Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 

4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
~-,II~f)tfli 
(!~ 
~~OtLJ~ 


The Notre Dame Arts & Letters 

Business Society 
RAFFLE 
Prizes: 
o 
Sony 13" Color TV donated by River Park Dist., Inc. 

o 
Panasonic VCR donated by Mito Corp. 


Tickets: $1 each, 5 for $6 To be sold at dinner in the dining halls • ONLY 2000 TICKETS AVAILABLE • Drawing on November 19th 

Erin Tierney and Julie Courtney recorded a time of 5:13.3., the Belles' best finish of the day. 
Fisher, Juckneiss, Courtney, and Tierney also swam well in the 400-yard freestyle relay with a time of 4:072. 
In other competition, mean­while, Tierney finished notably in the 400-yard breaststroke relay, taking third place with a time of 5:25.3. Swimming with her were senior Margaret Mannion, junior Margaret Ken­nedy, and freshman Clare Druley. 
Tanya Reeves, a sophomore, was outstanding in the 400-yard butterfly relay along with classmate Sarah Maurer, and freshmen Clare Druley and Ann Geigley. Their time was 5:04.9. 

Wednesday, November 12, 1986-page 10 
Wednesday 
Bottle Bargains 
(imports, wine coolers) 
Thursday 
• 

~ Tequila Night 
Here's a good stuff offer from Wendy's · 
Get Wendy's Big Classic Combo. We start with our new Big Classic. The fresh ground beef, fresh taste, big size, made right before your eyes hamburger. Then add regular size fries and a medium soft drink. And you get all this at a special Big Classic Combo price. 

THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A 
BIG CLASSIC HAMBURGER, 
REGULAR SIZE ORDER OF FRENCH I 
FRIES AND A MEDIUM SIZE (160Z) I 
SOFT DRINK 

FOR ONLY $2.59 I 
Present Coupon When Ordering. Not Valid ...,._ With Any Other Offer. Bacon, Cheese And 1 
'"" • '"' "'"-""' ·~"'' ,_ I
16 

~~~ I 
OFFER EXPIRES NOVEMBER 30, 1986 I'! 
REDEEM AT ANY SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA OR NILES WENDY'S LOCATION 
I 
I 
I I I I 


~~.cll~~------------------------------------------------------·W•e•dn•e•sd•a•y•'•N•ov•e•m•b•e•r-12•,-19•8•6·--pa•g•e--11 
Bloom County 

Beer Nuts 
. OUR H!RO liAS 8££N WANDER­IN& TH£ UXJVTRYSIP£ fOR UAYS NOW. TH£ OM.Y fii/N& HE HA<; fNCOUNTfRfO IS 
. THE 8/..EAK P£50LATION OF THE LAND. 
I f-
Campus 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Mark Williams 


OUT OF FtXJD, DRINK, ANP... 
SALVATION!

QIH.f.B.. i:ASI{. N£(£5SITI£S OF (J'IIL/tf.TION. BUT 1</A/T­UP -IT's ... IT'S.. .. · 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 In -parentis  
5 The deep to  
a sailor  
10 Greenish-blue  
14 Lendl  
15 Western show  
16 Emulate tabby  
17 Mental giant  
19 Baltic region  
capital  
20 Singer John  
21 Tours summer  
22 Sloping  
surface  
23 Gist  
25 Vast chasm  
27 Priestly garb  
30 Furniture  
piece  
32 Literary  
collection  
35 State over  
37 Wizard of  
Menlo Park  
39 Musical sound  
40 Nosh  
42 King of Huns 43 Make beloved  ®1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved  11/12/86  
46 Advisory  


councils 7 Revise 49 Space vehicle 8 Virgil's hero 50 Crumpled 9 Approval sign 52 Female ruff 10 "-moi le 53 Action place deluge" 55 A Fitzgerald 11 TV host 57 Plus quality 12 Exhort 59-Tin Tin 13 Russ. sea 61 Dodge 18 Geraint's 65 Loathe wife et al. 66 Blueprint 22 Polar explorer 68 War god 24 Uno, due, ­69 Next 26 Social insect 70 Nimbus 27 Soviet 71 Disclose cooperative 72 Crystal-lined 28 Sierra-
stone 29 Music man 73 Turn over -31 Pile up 
11/12/86
leaf 33 Actor Nick 

34 Aromatic seed 
DOWN 36 Notice 51 Decanter 62-Bator 1 Stone or light 38 Fleming 54 Della of song 63 Ravine 2 Athletic field 41 Capable 56 Gr. letter 64 Plenty for 3 Hurl 44 Partner of aid 57 Whale chaser a bard 4 Successful 45 Try for office 58 Poet Teasdale 66 Publication 5 Hockey great 47-canto 60 Proportion for short 
8:00 a.m.-11:30 p.m.: A Call To Peacemak­ing Week Exhibit, "The Peace Ribbon," display at the Center for Social Concerns from the Chicago Peace Museum 
10:30 a.m.: Theology Dept. Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies Distinguished Lecturer Series, question and answer session with Dr. Chaim Potok, Center for Continuing Education Auditorium, public welcome 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of AI­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15 p.m.: 15 min. prayer service for A Call To Peacemaking Week, Center for So­cial Concerns Chapel 
3:45p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture by Prof. Kenneth Goodpaster, Harvard Business School. Topic: The Challenge of Sustaining Corpor­ate Conscience, Center for Social Concerns 
3:45p.m.: English Dept. Lecture, "Milton and Philosophy," by Prof. Stephen Fallon, Program of Liberal Studies, Wilson Com­mons 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Refor­mulation of Electroreflectance Theory To Study Defects in Semiconductors," by Dr. Paul Raccah, University of Illinois, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:20p.m.: Presentation, "Career Planning for Government and History Majors," speaker: Paul Reynolds of Career & Place­ment Services, 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
4:30p.m. ND Finance Club Financial Insti­tution Series Lecture, "Back To the Fu­ture," by John Porta, president and CEO, Southeast Banking Corporation, Hayes­Healy Auditorium. Students, faculty,and general public welcome 
7:00 p.m.: Presentatioll'Reception for all Arts and Letters Math, CAPP and ALPA juniors and seniors interested in career op­portunities with Aetna Life and Casualty, Upper Lounge, University Club 
7:00p.m.: Meeting, Toastmasters Interna­tional, 223 Hayes Healy 
7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series "Stagecoach", 1939, &W, 100 minutes, John Ford, USA, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:00 p.m.: Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series, "Oceanography and Deep Sea Biol­ogy" by Dr. Kathleen M. Sullivan, Library Lounge 
7:15-8:30 p.m.: Fellowship meeting, the Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 
7:30p.m.: African Studies and Center for Social Concerns Film, "Witness to Apar­theid," Center for Social Concerns 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Goulash 
Liver and onions 
Spaghetti with Italian meat sauce 
Sesame baked cod 
Veal parmesan grinder on hard roll 
Saint Mary's 
Philadelphia Steak Sandwich 
Eggplant Parmesan 
Baked Fish w!Seet & Sour Sc. 
Deli Bar 
6 Approach! 48 Loafer 

SAB presents--------'­
JERRYFALWELL 
Thursday, Nov. 13 7:00pm 
Reserved seating-FREE ticket distributed at the Washington Hall Ticket 0./fice 
Wed., Nov. 12 and Thurs., Nov.13 
12-6:00pm · 
NO /SMC student, faculty or staff ID required-one ticket per 10. 
SAB presents 
The Shining 

Wednesday, Nov 12 
$1.50 Thursday, Nov 13 
Eng. Auditorium 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Absolutely No Food or Drink Allowed! 
phrase 67 Before 

Happy Birthday 
'Ween' Kramer and Andre the giant 
21 at last 



Pollsters upset Penn State's party plans 
S~orts 
l}i 
Tb; Oho.o•uo,•/ 

Brian O'Gara features Waller and details the team's upcoming action at right. 
Sophomore middle blocker Mary Kay Waller has rolled up a .379 kill percentage and 131 blocks this year to help her Notre Dame volleyball team to its team-record 25-6 slate . 
Sports Wednesday returns 
Today's issue of The Ob­polls and professional stand­server reintroduces the ings to keep readers up to Sports Wednesday page. date on the national sports This weekly page will fea­scene. Graphics featuring ture schedules, standings interesting or unusual sports and statistics for Notre trivia round out the Sports Dame and Saint Mary's In­Wednesday line up. terhall and varsity sports. Sports Wednesday ap­Sports Wednesday also will pears on page 9 of today's include Associated Press edition of The Observer. 
. 
Wednesday, November 12, 1986-page 12 

Waller, Irish keep rolling along; win streak will be on line tonight 
By BRIAN O'GARA country's leaders in kill Lambert praised Waller, Sports Writer percentage as well. This is a agreeing that she has improved spectacular feat for any greatly but has yet to fully tap 
The Notre Dame volleyball player, let alone a sophomore. her potential on the volleyball team puts a team-record nine­But Waller will be the first to court. game winning streak on the admit that this promising "She has made good prog­line tonight as it travels west career began slowly. ress from last year," he said. to Chicago to face the Univer­"I didn't play until ninth "She is very talented physi­sity of Illinois at Chicago in a grade," she said. "My sister cally, and can go as far as she 7:30p.m. CST match. was starting the seventh grade wants." 
The Irish are coming off an and she talked me into it. I was Anyone who has attended a impressive three-match sweep so bad. I had never even home volleyball match this of their weekend action, defeat­touched a volleyball." season surely will have noticed ing Dayton, Northwestern and Waller improved slowly until the enthusiasm that Waller Pittsburgh. Those three wins her senior year in high school takes to the court. Whether it brought the Irish season record when she led her Lawrence be in the form of a wide smile to 25-6. That mark ties the team High School team through an after a kill or a high-five to a record for the most wins in a undefeated, state champion­teammate, Waller shows her season set in 1982 when the Irish ship season that got her named emotions. went 25-9. to an all-state selection in "I get really nervous before 
As the Irish as a team are Kansas. a game so when I do something having a banner season, so ex­Since joining the Irish last good, it shows," Waller said. pectedly, are several of the fall, Waller has continued to "We work hard in practice, and players. One of the Irish stand­improve steadily. An outside I think it's important to have outs for the past two seasons hitter at first, Waller made the fun on the court. I think youhas been sophomore middle transition to middle blocker play better if you're trying to blocker Mary Kay Waller. Wal­and has since become a steady have a good time. And anybodyler, a native of Lawrence, Kan., force for the Irish at the net. would have to admit that it's a has developed into a major "Last year was my first year good feeiing to get a kill." force at the net for the Irish, playing middle, and I wasn't Waller is a product of Lam­leading the team and the entire sure where I was supposed to bert's first full recruiting effort North Star Conference with a be at times," said Waller. since taking over the Irish in .379 kill percentage for 131 "Now it feels more natural. I 1984. Waller, Zanette Bennett, blocks in 31 matches . can concentrate on hitting the Maureen Shea and Whitney
In fact, Waller is ranked in ball harder. But I still feel like Shewman are all sophomoresthe top 20 in the nation for her I'm learning volleyball." 131 blocks, and is among the Notre Dame head coach Art see WALLER, page 8 
Field hockey review 

Irish suffer growing pains in '86 
By MARGOT MACHECA often trying circumstances coach Jill Lindenfeld would Sports Writer that presented themselves have liked to have amassed a through the course of the better record over the course 
When it comes down to the season. of the season, she now stresses number of wins and losses for The Irish began the year with the important development the Notre Dame field hockey only four returning letter­that occurred with the team as team this season, the Irish may winners and very few experi­a whole and the players indi­not look overly impressive with enced players. In spite of the vidually. a final record of 6-12-1. adversity, the team filled the "We never stopped trying the 
Yet the morale and attitude gaps on the field and accepted whole season,.. said Linden-of the squad could not have the challenge. been more positive during the And although Irish head see IRISH, page 10 
The pollsters went out and ruined the party. By demoting Penn State to No.3, they have taken some of the luster out of Saturday's matchup. 
There has been gobs of hype about how the Fiesta, Gator, and Florida Citrus bowls have been seeking sponsers to enable them to up their antes for a Miami-Penn State matchup for the National Cham­pionship. The increase is necessary to lure Miami away from bowls like the Orange and Sugar, which offer a much larger purse but not the chance for the Hurricanes to defeat No. 2. 
But now those bums that cast the all-important votes have sent Penn State down to No.3. A matchup between Miami and Penn State at this point cannot claim to determine the National Championship ex­clusively. The pollsters may be saved from ruining the dream matchup if Michigan loses to Ohio State, which would give undefeated Penn State a chance to move back into the second slot. 
But that's where the Irish come in. 
Although the excitement of beating the third­ranked team is not quite the same as beating the second-ranked team, I don't really think too many people on the Notre Dame side are going to argue. After all, the Irish are 0-2 against second-ranked teams this season. Whether Penn State is second or third, at any rate, they must be undefeated to qualify for any hope of a shot at Miami. 
The red-hot Irish have an opportunity to make all the talk of a National Championship matchup just babble. 
Notre Dame poses the only real obstacle to that 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

matchup since Penn State only has the Pitt Pan­thers left on the schedule after the Irish. Without John Cangemi, the Panthers lose a lot of their snarl. 
But while Notre Dame can ruin Penn State's trip to the dream game, the Irish can rain on a lot of other people's parades as well. Think of the long faces of the selection committees of the Gator, Fiesta, and Florida Citrus bowls if the Irish nix their chances at a Penn State-Miami game. Notre Dame could be the masked bandit that takes away unlimited amounts of revenue and national expo­sure. 
Being the bad guys can be a lot of fun. 
The game presents a case where Penn State has nothing to gain, since they are expected to win, and everything to lose, like a shot at the National Cham­pionship. The Irish, on the other hand, are in a very different situation. A win against Penn State could serve some notice to some bowl committees to give the Irish more than a passing glance. They can only help themselves at this point. Unfortunately, the Lions are just one step toward any bowl berth, and each step requires a little spring. 
But this game is a special one even if there are no bowl representives chomping at the bit. It presents a little tradition and old-fashioned charm. 

The beauty of the game is captured in the uni­forms of each team. Penn State has the ugliest uni­forms in the nation in the eyes of many, but I don't agree. The simple white-and-blues that look more like some team's practice uniforms represent a little taste of college football in its purest form. Quarterback John Schaffer has been quoted as saying that Joe Paterno would do away with the numbers on the uniforms if he could get away with it. Simplicity has a beauty all its own. 
Notre Dame's move to this year's edition of uni­form puts it in Penn State's class. They both disdain the players' names on the back, heavy striping and rainbow colors. Traditional black shoes present an aura in which the game of football was meant to played. 
With last year's rain and mud added to all this, you have a picture that only John Madden dreams of. 
If you compare scores, the Irish shouldn't have a chance. While the Irish fell to Alabama decisively, 28-10, Penn State went out and left the Crimson Tide red-faced with a convincing 23-3 drubbing. But that's why the game is played on the field. The Irish have come a long way since that debacle, and ap­pear to be primed for a major test such as Penn State will administer. 
So while the pollsters may have ruined the party, this game provides at least enough entertainment for a little gathering. 


