

Ozzy Osbourne-page 3 

I 
A bird's-eye view Construction continues inside LaFortune Student Center as work is done in the lobby and the second-floor ballroom. These renovations will continue this semester and the promise of a more efficient student center lies ahead. 

Radiation Lab director assumes Henkels chair 
S!)ft'lallo The Observer cil since 1964, he has also served on 
the board of directors of several 
Robert Schuler, director of the construction and utility companies. Radiation Laboratory at Notre Barbara Henkels was the first Dame, will assume the Henkels woman trustee of Cabrini College Chair endowed at Notre Dame by and continues to serve on its board. the Paul and Barbara Henkels of 
Schuler has served as chsmistryPlymouth Meeting, Pa. 
professor and director of the "The University of Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory at Notre is indebted to Paul Henkels for his Dame since 1976. He received a 
generosity in recogmzmg the bachelor's degree from Canisius University's significant contribu­College in 1946 and his doctorate tions to radiation chemistry," com­from Notre Dame in 1949. He 
mented Father Theodore 
taught chemistry at Canisius from Hesburgh, University president. 
1949 to 1953 before joining the The appointment of Schuler, said Brookhaven National LaboratoryProvost Timothy O'Meara, "is a as a chemist. In 1956 he joined the tribute to an outstanding, interna­Mellon Institute as director of its 
tionally recognized scientist. Bob Radiation Research Laboratories. 
Schuler is a leading authority on He has held visiting professorships radiation chemistry, and his con­in Israel and India. Schuler belongs tributions in this important field of to numerous professional societies study will have a lasting impact and is the author of more than 150 
upon future research at the Univer­research papers on radiation sity and throughout the world." 
chemistry, photochemistry,
Paul Henkels is president of chemical kinetics, and spec­Henkels and McCoy Inc., an inter­troscopy.
national engineering and con­struction firm in Blue Bell, Pa. Francis Castellino, dean of the He was graduated with a bachelor's college of Science and degree from Haverford College in Kleiderer/Pezold professor of 1947 and currently is a trustee of biochemistry, said "The Radiation St. Joseph's University and Temple Laboratory has been achknowledg­University Hospital. He has also ed as the premier laboratory 

College receives Lilly grant to improve library catalogs 
Special to Tbe Observer This ambitious project is being Collection at Saint Mary's, the 
undertaken by the Indiana Methodism collection at DePauw, 
Saint Mary's is among 28 Indiana Cooperative Library Services the l6-17th century Lutheranism private colleges and theological Authority. The effort is funded by materials at Concordia Theological seminaries that greatly will expand grants that total more than $1 Seminary, the Quaker and Far East library services to their students, million from the Lilly Endowment, Collections at Earlham, the faculty and the general public. Inc., an Indianapolis-based private computer-information science 
During the next three years philanthropy. holdings at Taylor and the Bethel College, Goshen College Larry Frye, head librarian at materials in the 18th century and Saint Mary's will benefit from Wabash College in Crawfordsville, studies at the University of a cooperative cost-sharing effort to Ind., and chairman of the project Evansville. enter approximately l.7 million steering committee says, "Comple­Also, completion of this project pre-1977 catalog records of the tion of this project will significantly is basic to any future local automa­libraries of these schools into a na-improve delivery of library tion of library functions for any of tionally shared computer system. materials and services to faculty these institutions. Through IN­Records of holdings since 1977 are and students throughout the state, COLSA they will be able to par­already in the system. The com­among the general reading public in ticipate in a statewide resource pleted project will make it possible Indiana, and indeed, library users sharing network which provides an for library patrons to locate and throughout the nation." on-line computer catalog of the then borrow on interlibrary loan Included in these holdings are holdings of libraries in the state materials from any of these collec-items unique in Indiana and scarce with support circulation services tions. nationally. Examples are the Dante for every library user. 

U.S. conducted underground tests, according to environmental group 
Associated Press "At least four -and possibly as While no concrete evidence has 
many as 11 -(other) tests apparent­available, Norris suggested the 
WASHINGTON -The United ly escaped detection," suggesting smallest tests could be related to States conducted at least 12 and experiments with very small nuclear President Reagan's "Star Wars" possibly as many as 19 unannounc­devices, the report added. research effort. Published scientific ed underground nuclear weapons papers also suggest that scientists at tests between 1980 and 1984, an en­Lawrence Livermore Nationai
"This is indicative of an ac­vironmental group asserted yester­Laboratory in California have
celerated pattern that goes directlyday. 
contrary to many of the things that worked on "low-yield fission Mr. Reagan and (Defense Secretary warheads" for use on anti-satellite Citing research based on public 
Caspar) Weinberger publicly weapons, he said. 
sources of information, the Natural state," said Robert Norris, a The Natural Resources Defense Resources Defense Council said the 
political scientist and one of four Council has frequently been critical tests showed the Reagan ad­
researchers who collaborated on of Reagan administration policies. ministration had stepped up the 
the study. The Pentagon declined im­pace of nuclear weapons research, mediate comment on the report, despite government figures in­
"They speak of their desire to citing a standard policy not to dicating a stable rate of testing 
get rid of nuclear weapons, but discuss any details of nuclear from the Carter administration. 
they're building more of them and testing. 
they are spending more on nuclear The study was conducted by Nor­
Eight of the unannounced tests testing. And they are operating ris and another political scientist, could be confirmed based on infor­under a policy of keeping some William Arkin, who has specialized mation obtained from the U.S. tests secret on a theory, I believe, in the study of nuclear forces and Geological Survey or the Hagfors that announcing all tests would military strategy. Also col­Observatory in Sweden, which draw attention to the weapons laborating' were two physicists, Dr. detected them in 1983 and 1984, the buildup that they would like to Thomas Cochran and Dr. Milton report said. avoid." Hoenig. 

ND alumnus establishes chair for study of computer technology 
Special to The Observer ing his family to Colorado in 1935. founder, Ross Perot, Marquez 
After relocating he worked as a cat­traveled to Southeast Asia in the 
Thomas Marquez, a Dallas tle trader, a wool buyer in both Den early 1970s to publicize the plight 
businessman and Notre Dame ver and Durango. Mrs. Marquez of American prisoners of war. 
alumnus, has established the has been active in the Colorado Later in the decade, he helped 
Aurora and Tom Marquez Chair at Civil Ri~hts Commission. engineer the rescue of two EDS 
the University, in honor of his employees who were held hostage 
parents. The University Chair will in Iran. A book chronicling the
Their son was graduated from 
initially focus upon the field of in­rescue, "On the Wings of Eagles,"
Notre Dame in 1959 and attended 
formation theory and computer is now being filmed for a television
the Southern Methodist University
technology. As a University Chair, mini-series. He has been a member
Graduate School of Business. In 
it will not be designated for a par­of the University's College of
ticular college. Business Administration Advisory
Council since 1972. 
as a marketing representative. He 

served as a trustee of Temple University, Chestnut Hill College and the Philadelphia committee of the United Negro College Fund. A member of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters Advisory Coun­worldwide in the investigation of the effects of radiation upon mat­ter. Over the years this laboratory has attracted scientists from 50 countries, attesting to its interna­tional reputation." 
The endowed professorship honors Mrs. Marquez, a resident of Durango, Colo., and the late Mr. Marquez, who died six years ago. The elder Marquez had been a farmer in Rosa, N.M., before mov­
left IBM later that year for a sales and recruiting position with a new Dallas computer firm, Electronic Data Systems Corp. He was pro­moted to a vice presidency at EDS three years later. With EDS's 

Marquez retired from EDS in 1979 to devote more time to his family and the Texas War on Drugs, a statewide effort responsi-.,. ble for education and prevention programs and stricter drug laws. 

The Observer Wednesday, January 15, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
Professor of law and director of the Thomas and Alberta White Center on Law and Government at Notre Dame, Douglas Kmiec, has been appointed deputy assistant attorney general in the 
U.S. Department of Justice. Kmiec, who has been granted a leave of absence to accept the Washington job, was graduated from Nor­thwestern University in 1973. He received his law degree three years later from the University of Southern California. He joined Notre Dame's law faculty in 1980. Since May 1984, he has been director of the White Center. -The Observer 
The former senior vice president and director of 
marketing at St. Joseph BAnk and Trust has joined the business faculty at Saint Mary's. Robert Drevs will teach a marketing research course among others this semester. Drevs was also director of management education for NCR Corporation in Dayton. He is a former professor at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Michiana Astronomical Society has chosen 
St. Patrick's County Park as its designated site for "Halley's Comet Watches." The public is invited to attend informative workshops and watches tonight and tomorrow night at 7 in the Brown Barn. Members of the club will be presenting the half hour presentations followed by attempts to sight the comet from hills within the park. Call the park to confirm the workshops each day. A recording will be utilized to inform if the event has to be rescheduled because of overcast skies. The number to call at St. Pat's is 277-4831. -The Observer 
As part of Financial Aid Awareness week this week, hotline telephones will be staffed from 6:30 -9:30 tonight and tomorrow night for questions about financial aid. The public may call 237-5342 or 237-5410 to talk to counselors from seven area school including Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Students graduating in May or December 1986 who have not registered for spring semester on-campus interviews should do so at the Career and Placement Services office, lower level of Memorial Library, by Tuesday, Jan. 21. -The Observer 
Juniors and sophomores interested in seeking employ­ment for the summer of 1986 should come to the Career and Place­ment Services office, lower level Memorial Library for a summer profile form and more information concerning summer jobs. -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will officiate at ceremonies marking the dedication of a newly renovated architecture center in Rome tomorrow. The refurbished facility is in the 400-year-old Palazzo Capranica del Grille at Via Monterone 76 in the heart of the Eternal City. Thirty-five third-year American students and six faculty members are involved in the University's Rome Studies Program, which since 1969 has offered courses in architectural design, architectural and urban studies and visual studies. The curriculum also provides for field trips to Venice, Florence, Paris and Sicily. Professor Francesco Montana is director of the program and the center, which includes a studio, classrooms, lecture and seminar rooms, a library and offices. -The Observer 

Weather 
---~
,, 

:O:
Go to class now.Before you know it, the lure of spring will take you away from your books. Sunshine and warm today with a high of 36. A low of 26 tonight. -The Observer 
Ibe-0-b.se~~er-­
--------~-==Y~ ~­
The Observer (liSPS W9 2-4000) is published Mond:ly lhrough Frid:ly excepl during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is published by lhe sludenls oflhe llniversily of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriplions may be purchased for s:\0 per year (SlOper semesler) by wriringlbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame. Indiana 
-46~~6. 

The Observer is a member of The Asaoclated Press. All reproducrion righlli are rrSt"rvtd. 
$20,000 Scholarships: 
AValuable Scholarship. 





AValuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and com9letion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for mqre information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the NROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, 
or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT Wachtl. 

NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 

PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs 

PARIS WEST AFRICA ITALY LAKE PLACID JAPAN NEW YORK GREECE 
International programs offer courses including painting, drawing, printmaking, fashion, graphic design, photography, decorative arts, architectural history, art history, archaeology, ceramics, fibers, metals, surface design and papermaking. Undergraduate and graduate credit is available to qualified students. For more information, mail the coupon below or call the Office of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975 
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs, 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs. 
Name -------------------------------------------------------­
Address  
City  State  Zip  27  
I am a  D college student  D teacher  D other  



The Observer Wednesday, January 15,1986-page 3 
Parents sue Osbourne, point to lyrics 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The parents of a teen-ager who shot himself to death 14 months ago have filed suit against singer Ozzy Osbourne, con­tending their son was influenced by song lyrics about suicide. 
John Daniel McCollum, 19, allegedly was listening to an Osbourne album titled "Speak to The Devil" when he shot himself Oct. 27, 1984, with his father's .22 caliber pistol. Two of the album's songs, "Suicide Solution" and "Paranoid" refer to suicide. 
"It is my opinion those songs had a direct correlation in John's death," attorney Thomas Anderson said at a news conference Monday. 
The lawsuit, filed in Superior Court last October on behalf of Jack McCollum and Geraldine Lugenbuehl, contends the young man followed the lyrics of "Suicide Solution," which say, "Where to hide, suicide is the way out. Don't you know what it's really about?" 
Anderson said Osbourne and CBS were sued "to teach them a lesson. It is our hope that the case­as a result of applying California law-will make parents aware of what's in these records." 
Osbourne, formerly with the group Black Sabbath, would not comment on the suit, said a spokesman at Jensen Communica­tions who refused to give his name. 
CBS Records Group would have no comment because the matter was in the courts, spokesman Robert Altshuler in New YOrk said Monday. 
Jack McCollum told reporters his son was drinking the night he died. 
"But I don't believe he had a pro­blem with alcohol," he said. "His suicide came as a total surprise." 
Lee Snellings, deputy Riverside County coroner, said an investiga­tion indicated the young man did not seem to have any problems, was well-liked and gave no indica­tion he would take his life. 
SPRING BREAK 
Help us sponsor your Ft Lauderdale, DayI on a or Key West trip and you go for free! 

With 
G 




CL'IRKTELE 

CDMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
7~% LESS  7~% LESS  7~% LESS  
THAN AT&T'l  THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T'l  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST -Clark Telecommunication rates are lV2 °/o below AT&T rates all the time. lV2 Ofo below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND-Because Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus seniice representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 
your voice counts . . . 
Call today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE in room G91 in the Memorial Library. 283-4150 
CLqRKTELE


COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
In NNt W:lrtl SLitr StlnlrV H 1\ipl.ln f dUUII()nlll C~n!fl lid 
TEST PAEI'IlRATlON SPI'CIAliSTS SI'ICE 09:18 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601
CALL OAVS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 1717 E Soulh Bena Ave Soulh Bend, Indiana 46637 
(21 272·4135 




View~_o_i_n__t_________
w_ed-ne-sda-y,-Ja-nua_ry_ls_,19-86-pa-ge4 
Logan Center volunteers show understanding 
There is a group of students among the halls of Notre Dame that I consider super students. They may be well prepared for all their classes and get remarkably good 
' 
grades, but beyond this they are unique. 
They are unique because they volunteer their 
time at Logan Center. The students provide 
many developmentally disabled children and 
~ 
adults friendship which they might not have otherwise. The time and effort that the students put in should not be overlooked, but the appreciation and companionship that they show toward their handicapped friends should be applauded. 
Patrick Burgess 
guest column 

-------~-------­
· This program also involves the cooperation of Saint Mary's and Indiana University at South Bend, and has been working for a number of years. Rocky Blier, the great run-
r 
ning back for the Irish, was a member of the 
r 
r group when he was a student. In fact, his roommate, Dan Harshman, is now the ex­ecutive director of Logan. There have been a 
f great number of concerned students over the years who have been instrumental in the con­tinuing development of handicapped peo­ple's lives. These students are providing an invaluable 
r 
service for handicapped people. It takes a special person to give of himself or herself especially when the benefactor cannot let his appreciation be truly heard in conventional ways. It is a real pleasure for me to serve with such fine students. 
As a member of the volunteer group, it is very exciting for me to share time with han­dicapped people. Also as· a person with a handicap myself, 1 share a special feeling of happiness and joy that such a program ex­ists. It is for me a time of fun and compa­nionship with other people who do not have obvious handicaps. It is very important for handicapped people to have the ability to receive input from other people. This allows them to view others and the ways they relate to their environment. There is a whole range of concerns facing disabled people, from 
maintaining relationships to knowing how to relate to their jobs or school situations. They need to see how other members of society react in similar situations so that they can Jearn from their behavior. Handicapped people want to Jive a life that allows them the creativity to make a better tomorrow for themselves. The ke to unlocking that is be­ing involved with other people of different abilities and backgrounds. The students in­volved are instrumental in providing that aspect of learning for the handicapped. 
As a member of the volunteers, I find it hard to get across to some of the new volunteers that I am here to help, and not to receive services. Unfortunately there were some that did not listen. I find it very dif­ficult to communicate that in spite of my speech impairment, I have normal mental capacity. The same holds true for many mentally handicapped people. Many people assume mentally handicapped people cannot perform everyday tasks like making their beds or washing their clothes, when in fact they possess the ability to lead perfectly nor­mal lives. Many mentally impaired people can live alone or in a situation with some supervision, and have the ability to find gainful employment. Unfortunately, however, many people have been misinform­ed about handicapped people. I fell into the same boat when it came to misconceptions 

about mentally handicapped people. Even 
though I am physically impaired, I was not 
sure how I should react to mentally impaired 
people. I am glad for this opportunity to 
join the group; it was instrumental in dispell­
ing my fears about mentally handicapped 
people. 

Many people tend to apply certain values like productivity, beauty, wealth or even in­telligence to the handicapped and judge them 
. worthless by comparison. As a result, they 
view them as useless members of society. 
Because people have not had the opportunity to know handicapped people as maividuals, they make these crude assumptions. Many handicapped people are eager to show they indeed can succeed, once given the oppor­tunity. Whether that is in a personal rela­tionship, through college, or on the job, the forum does not matter. All that is asked is that people give disabled citizens a fair chance to achieve their individual ideal of the American Dream. 
The students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and iUSB have many things for which they should be proud. Very few college students are willing to accept and assist handicapped people. These students have provided a stimulus for growth and independence among handicapped people that supports and emphasizes the notion that handicapped 
people should be treated like everyone else. Participating in this volunteer program means that students have taken the calculated risk of being rejected by room­
mates and friends because of devotion to the people served. It takes strength to carry on in the face of apathy or even opposition. These students have made a difference and can take pride in what is being done. The community owes them thanks for everything that has been achieved through the faith and conviction that sees handicapped people ac­cepted in our society. They are truly .super students. 


Improper analogy made about apartheid system 
Despite the United States' historical battles with racism, it has ultimately failed to re­sond to appeals by the United Nations and other members of the world community for stronger action against the late South African government. Instead, there is a growing tendency to relate the apartheid system in South Africa to racial discrimina­tion practiced in the United States. 
Patrick Francis 
guest column 

Although there are some similarities between 
the two, the dehumanization of blacks and 
the recent resistance demonstrations, these 
similarities are superficial and do not ap­
proach the heart of the conflict in South 
Africa. 
I would like to present three ways in which 
the two situations differ and the dangers that 
arise from the failure to recognize the dif­
ferences. 
Without detracting from the seriousness of the crimes perpetrated on blacks in the 
Doonesbury 
United States, we must realize the severity of oppression varied between urban and rural areas, most certainly between northern and southern states, and in the phases of life it affected. Racial oppression under apartheid is universal, without variation throughout the geographical regions of the country. 
Secondly, in the United States, at least in principle, the federal government served as a higher authority and afforded the opportuni­ty to appeal segregationist activities. ' Although many of these activities were upheld through the doctrine of "states' rights," discriminatory practices were con­tradictory to the national Constitution and gradually fell down with the dismantling of the doctrine. 
In contrast, racial segregation is grounded in the constitution of South Africa and there is no method of recourse for opponents of apartheid. The relegation of blacks to "homelands," which would remove any last attempts by blacks to participate in the cen­tral political system in the land of their birth, is a manifesto expounded in the constitution. 
The third area of difference is in the com­position of the populations of the two coun­tries. Blacks were a minority in the United States and failed to pose a major challenge over white dominance here. Black claims to citizenship and voting rights did not threaten to reorder the way of life of the white elite. 

By comparison, any semblance of democratic participation in the South African government by the black majority (over 70 percent of the population) would destroy white domination and their privileg­ed lifestyles. This threat produces fear among white South Africans which calls for measures to ensure that blacks remain out­side the political structure. 
Failure to recognize the true nature of the conflict in South Africa can lead to wrong conclusions. President Botha insists no com­promise is possible on the issue of full black participation in the central power structure. Statements relating to the positive aspects of black authorities working in the townships fails to recognize these structures for what they really are -a mere creation and tool of the white regime to give a false legitimacy to the policy of separation. These authorities serve no legitimate representative purpose. 
The acceptance of this invalid relationship between past United States practices and the current situation in South Africa has Jed some to argue that the modifications of "pet­ty" apartheid, such as allowing interracial marriages, are a sign of serious reform pro­cesses initiated by the Botha government. Consequently, they call for "constructive engagement" with this "reformist" regime. In actuality, these modifications make no at­tempt to dismantle the abhorrent system of apartheid. 
Those who accept the analogy between the conditions in the United States and South Africa fail to realize that even if it were true, the struggle undertaken to dismantle our own forms of segregation did not progress through constructive engagement with segregationists. Economic pressures and courageous resistance were only a part of the struggle. It is unlikely to take any less to destroy apartheid in South Africa. 
Patrick Francis is a senior American studies! ALPA major. 
Gary Trudeau r---------------------, 
NO, Fa?. A R/t.L 7RJPPY, IFYOIJ 



Quote of the day 
"We stand today on the edge of a new frontier .••" 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager..... ... Dav1d Stephenllch
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ..... :.......... . ..... W1lllam J . .Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo Advertising Manager . . . . .. .......... J1m Hagan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . . Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager... . . John A. Men nell 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief ............................... ; .......... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 
-----------------~­

The Observer 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team beat 
Marquette, 75-42, on Monday to improve its season record to 7-5. In previous action during the semester break, the Irish went 2-3. Details of these games will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club will hold a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone in­terested in joining the Squash Club also should attend. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451. -The Observer 
t********************************* 
! SEX ! 
: IS NOT INCLUDED BUT... 
i 

* •g*u J*
; skatlf\ not * p. . !i * Chocolate ,. i 
: will be provided at the ACC Ice Rink ! ; for a skating party Thursday, January 16"!
* 9:45pm to 12:00pm • * 
: ~ r : 
: The cost Is FREE l 

-=­110 come out and have a little fun
* 
-;x 
~ before the grind begins again. '* ~ 
*
* 

;* A STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRODUCTION ** 
. * 

********************************** 
Coaches 
continuedfrom page 8 
and assistant head coach from 
1979-81. During his tenure as 
defensive coordinator, the Pan­
thers ranked first in the nation in 
both rushing defense and total 
defense in both the '80 and '81 
seasons. 
Yelovich, offensive line coach at Stanford for the past two seasons, has held that post everywhere he has coached -including stints at Tulane (1980-83), Arizona (1977­79), Cincinnati (1974-76), Ten­nessee Tech (1971-73), Northeast Missouri State (1969-70) and Wichita State (1968). 
The 25-year old Stewart, offen­sive line coach at Minnesota for the past two vears, played offensive guard for Holtz at Arkansas, cap­taining the 1980 team and earning all-Southwest Conference honors in '79 as a junior. 
Cordelli rejoins Holtz after serv­ing as the Golden Gopher receiver coach the past two seasons. Prior to joining Holtz' staff at Min­nesota, Cordelli had been a scout for the Dallas Cowboys in '82 after spending the '80 and '81 seasons as an assistant coach at Memphis State· and then coaching receivers for Holtz at Arkansas in '83. 
Forbes put together a defense at Akron that permitted only 12.7 points per game over the last four seasons, one of the best NCAA Division 1-AA marks in the coun­try. The Zips ranked sixth na­tionally in Division 1-AA in total defense in '85, eighth in scoring defense, finished at 8-3, and stood lOth in the final Division 1-AA poll before losing a first-round playoff game to Rhode Island. 



Jj 

l ~ 
•4 
// 

i 
Jt,}'·,<), __ 
~-~ l 

Vinny Cerrato Pete Cordelli 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 


NOTICE TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ENROLLMENT  
ALL students must enroll. Students who do not enroll by Thurs., January 23, will be deleted from the Revised Class Lists. After January 23 a LATE ENROLLMENT FEE of $25.00 will be charged to add a student to the lists. In order to enroll, you must complete a (green) ENROLLMENT form (example shown below) and give It to a clerk In the Reglstar's Office. Keep your stamped (yellow) carbon copy of the form as proof of your enrollment. You may be asked to show It when making class changes. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ENROLLMENT FORM ~== =-=-----;;:,..,::;;-,-----:.:;:­.. ,;­• ,....., 10 NO MlM • I UPIICT TO QAAOUAft wmMN .......UT tJ ltOtill'tl& ...... T"l Ai'lllllrlc»IIIIATI fi r-l IIOtffHa&OW, Q) JANUA..'t' @ AWGUIT ®®~®Cf®l~®.~l COMIJLITI A I I IILOW DU"INQ fALL INaOLLMINT ONLY 000000000 ®®®®®®®®®! .... (!)(!)(!)(!)(j)(j)(!)(!)® :!."~\~'! 00®0®®0®® ®®®®®®®®® @®~®®®®®® ~ <D <D <D <D (!)(!) <D Q)/ ®®®®®®®®®STUDENTCLASS !soo...TUAI DATI ~(j)!iii@i®®lii-(j)~  
111111111111111111111111111111111SCHEDULES  
To add or drop a course, a student must complete a SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT REQUEST FORM for each change. Students who change majors may drop their old courses and add their new courses on a COURSE SELECTION FORM. The forms are available In departmental offices. Your advisor must sign each form and each add or drop must be signed by a representative of the department offering the course. After January 23 all Schedule adjustments must also be approved by the students' deans. Deans' approval must be obtained for PASS/FAIL option changes at ALL times. No PASS/FAIL option changes will be honored after January 23.  

~--------------------------------------------·­
The Observer 

Break 
continuedfrom page 8 
The Friars shot 61 percent from the field and 76 percent from the line, but that was not enough to overcome a 28-14 Irish rebounding edge, as Notre Dame wound up with a hard-fought 78-72 victory to improve its record to 8-1. 
"Providence had some incredible shooting, but we were able to take away their inside game with a zone in the second half," said Phelps. "We played very well the second half." 
The Friars came out hot, shooting nearly 70 percent (16-23) in the first half, but the Irish did not allow Providence even one of­fensive rebound in the first half, while they scored six times on second-shot efforts. 
"We knew only one or two teams have outrebounded Notre Dame the last couple of seasons, but we wanted to attack Notre Dame at the heart," said Friar head coach Rick Pitino. 
Unfortunately for them, the Friars could not keep the Notre Dame brawn off the boards, and the Irish took a 43-39 lead after one half on Donald Royal's layup off 
an  offensive  rebound  with  28  
seconds left.  
Free-throw shooting paved  the  

way for the Irish in the second half. 
Twice the Friars made strong runs at Notre Dame, taking a 45-43 lead with 18:03left, and trying the game at 55 with 11 :29 to go. Irish timeouts at both junctures helped them pull back ahead, although never by much. 
The Irish shot 15 for 19 from the charity stripe in the second half, with guard David Rivers leading the way with an 8-10 effort after going 2-2 in the first half. Rivers paced the Irish with 22 points (6-12 from the field, 10-12 from the line), five assists and four steals. 
Steve Wright made two free throws with 1:05 to go to pull the Friars with three at 72-69, but free throw shooting by Rivers kept the Irish ahead. 
Jim Dolan helped out greatly with seven rebounds and eight points in 24 minutes of action, while Donald Royal also pulled down seven caroms. 
Guard Harold Starks led the Friars with 18 points. -Eric Scheuermann 
ND 77, LaSalle 63 
PHILADELPHIA David Rivers scored 24 points to lead Notre Dame to a 77-63 victory over LaSalle on the first stop of a four­game road trip on Jan. 4. 
The Irish outrebounded the Ex­plorers 40-24, including 14-5 on the offensive boards, to aid in their seventh victory of the season. Chip Greenberg led the Explorers (6-6) with 25 points. 
The Irish got off to a quick start and held a 21-10 advantage with 
10:40 left in the first half on the strength of sharp outside shooting from Rivers and Ken Barlow. The Explorers refused to roll over. With 48 seconds remaining in the half. Explorer Rich Tarr hit a jumper in the lane and was fouled on the play by Irish center Tim Kempton. After converting the free throw, the Explorers trailed by a point. When Kempton missed the front end of a one-and-one, Eric Lee scored on a short jump shot to give LaSalle a 34-33 halftime lead. 
"We forced shots in the first half and didn't play well in the first half," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps, "But we didn't lose it. It was a good test to be down one at halftime and come back and win by 14." 
After trading baskets to open the second half, the Irish switched from a man-to-man to a match-up zone that the Explorers couldn't solve. When Rivers fed Barlow for an alley-oop to give Notre Dame an eight-point lead with a little more than eight minutes gone in the half, the rout was on. Barlow finished with 16 points, while Rivers had eight assists. 
"We didn't lose our composure," said Rivers. "We had a letdown of intensity and that was what we stressed at halftime, to keep up the intensity." ' 
A large reason the Irish kept their composure was the play of the four seniors. Those four, along with Rivers, stayed on the floor for the final 11 minutes as the Irish put the game away. 
"The four seniors played well," commented Phelps. "Their ex­perience let them beat LaSalle. I was pleased with Dolan (eight points, 11 rebounds). Dolan and Price (13 points, 2 rebounds) really did the job. 
On another note, this was freshman Mark Stevenson's first visit back to the P alestra, a court on which he had played while at Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia. Stevenson played the first 13 minutes of the game and did not score. 
"Mark pressed in the first half," noted Phelps, "but he has played well for us. I've never brought a freshman back home and had him play well. I took Orlando Woolridge back to New Orleans, and he missed three dunks and had 
three  fouls  in  the  first  five  
minutes."  
- Dennis Corrigan  

ND 80, Creighton 54 
The Notre Dame men's basket­ball team wrapped up 1985 on a winning note -and accomplished some revenge -with its 80-54 win over Creighton at the ACC on Dec. 
30. It was exactly one year after the Irish had dropped a 60-58 decision to the Bluejays in the Omaha Civic Auditorium to close out 1984. 
Ken Barlow led a balanced Notre Dame attack with 15 points, while guards Scott Hicks, Mark Steven­son and David Rivers netted 10 

SPRING BREAK 
LUV the Sun? 7 nights I 8 days in Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona or the Islands 
(800) 368·2006 TOLL ··Ru: 

Wednesday, January 15,1986-page 6 

points apiece. Creighton forward Kenny Evans led all scorers with 25 points, while guard Reggie Morris added 21. 
Notre Dame led by just four at the half, 32-28, but blew the game open in the first 10 minutes of the second half by outscoring the Jays 
25-12 to take a 57-40 lead. Junior guard Scott Hicks scored all 10 of 
his  points in  that stretch  to  key  
Notre Dame's spurt.  
The  Irish  took  control  of the  

boards in the second half, en route to a 34-25 rebounding advantage. 
"We controlled the boards in the first half and in the second half we played with more intensity," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We had better shot selection and we just played our game. I was concerned after the layoff (the Irish had not played a game since Dec. 21), but overall I was pleased with our intensity. We did the things I felt we had to do to win." 
"We were very close in the first half, but we didn't connect in the second," said Creighton head coach Tony Barone. "We threw away the ball, but I thought we played pretty well. 
"The key points came from Rivers -he completely changed the game. He's excellent defensive­ly and he has a great ability in pass­ing. Shooting in his range he is very good. He's a bright player, ver -y quick with the ball and I love when a player is willing to give up the ball for his teammates." 
-Larry Burke 
ND 98, Valparaiso 54 
After a long layoff for final ex­ams, one might have expected the Notre Dame men's basketball team to be a little rusty in its Dec. 21 game against Valparaiso in the ACC. 
The Irish certainly put that no­tion to rest, however, punishing the Crusaders, 98-54. 
Notre Dame shot 68 percent from the field in the first half while holding the Crusaders to a dismal 29 percent, and led 45-17 at the half. 
The Irish jumped out to a 10-0 lead, with junior Donald Royal scoring four points, before Valparaiso could get anything go­ing. 
"After the layoff I didn't know how we would play today," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "I wanted everyone to get playing 
In Ntw 'IU11t Stall! Stanlt'y 1"1 K.lpldn fduu.hon.ll \.entt• 11!1 TEST PAEMRATION SI'I!CIAUSTS S..CE 19.38 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS 1o WEEKENDS 
1717 E. Soulh Bene! Ave Soulh Bend, Indiana 46637 
272·4135 
Looking for something to fill those long 
duD evenings? 
239-5303 or stop by 4th floor LaFortune. 
·--------------------------------------------~ 



Come Work With Us! 
The Observer is looking for evening product­ion workers right now. No experience is necessary. Learn Valuable layout skills and have fun too! For more information, contact John Mennen at 
time. We came out and played hard and hit the defensive boards hard. 
"I thought we responded very well to the layoff, and we forced them to take bad shots. The shooting in the first half was what impressed me most." 
"The combination of our inabili­ty to get good shots and their abili­ty to get some good shots and make them was the reason for us losing so badly today," said Valparaiso head coach Tom Smith. "Notre Dame shot well and intimidated us." 
Even before the first half ended, Phelps began to substitute freely, giving almost equal playing time to all of the Irish players. Captain Ken Barlow led the Irish with 14 points and eight rebounds, while freshman Mark Stevenson scored 12 and David Rivers scored 10. 
clip and SOL'P 
With the Irish substitutes playing a great deal in the second half of the contest, the Crusaders were able to stay with Notre Dame a bit more. Valparaiso shot 49 percent this half, but still lost the half by a 53-37 margin, making the final score 98-54. 
"We had to say the first half was over and come out the second half and play well," said Smith. "I thought we shot better in the se­cond half but because we played so poorly in the first half, it was too late." 
"In the second half we let up a bit, but that is only natural when we get a big lead," said Phelps. "And the other team hit their shots to get some confidence. We got in­to a good grove. Now we have to get our minds turned from academics and think basketball. I'm just glad we played so well." 
-Eric Scheuermann 

.. --.-.--------------· 
II DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00 ·Midnight 272-5455 
501 Dixleway North. Roseland. Indiana
NAUGLES<!> 

NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
MEXICAN KITCHEN AMERICAN KITCHEN 
Reg. Macho Hambur~r• -4 to a pound CUSTOM GRII..LED NOT STOCK PU.ED
Taco I .09 1.69 Burrito• Naugleburger 1.99 Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Patties with the works 
Meat 2.39 3.29 
double cheese 
Combo 2.09 2.79 
Chee•e 1.89 2.59 

Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 Make any burrito \Aiel for 50 cents!! 
2 Patties with lettuce. tomato, mayo dressing
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a 

pound of goodies! Hamburger 1.19 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup, 
Nacho• & Cheese 1.19 
mustard. onion
Have some sauce for no extra charge to spice them 
add cheese .20 
up that much more. 

Macho Nacho'• 2.19 DESSERTS Retried beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat sauce, spicy green sauce! 
Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • StrawbeTy • Orange 

Blueberry • Chocolate • Cherry • Vanllla • Root Beer Tostada Grande 3.29 Shake• 1.09 (In a shell wonderful) Sundae• 1.49 
R'9 Plan.. Fudge B,rownle .69 
Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Putry .69 
To1tada Combo 1.59 2.09 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 
Chile Ole" .99 2.39 
Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 
DRINK UP! 
Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 

Cold Beverage• Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders. 
12 oz.' .64 20 oz.-.79 32 oz...94 

Want It a special way · just order it! Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew 
Enchilada'• (Platter of 2) 

Dr. Pepper, Welches, Sunkist, Lemonade Meat -lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 
Ice Tea. Milk, Orange Juice 
Chicken 2.50 
Hot Beverage• -.47 
Coffee, Hot Chocolate. Hot Tea
DINNERS 
•1 Enchilada-1 chicken, 1 beef 

•2 Macho Taco SIDE ORDERS #3 Meat Burrito 
French Frle• .99 

Refrled Beans .99 with chill 1auce .99 Complete with Mexican salad, refried beans, chill & 
#4 Cheeae Burrito &: Taco Nacho Chlpl . .39 
cheese, guacamole, sour cream &_a pile of chips. 

Guacamole Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 A dinnt?r with enough left over for tomorrow's LUNCH' .25
Sour Cream 

4.79 Extra cheeae for anything .50 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 mlnlr••um order 

..----------·clipand save.·----------­


---~--------------­








']I['~~t:Jl~-----------------------------------------------~•e•d•n•es•d•a•y,_J_a.n.ua_cy
__t_s_,1_9_86___.P.ag•e..7 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 
.SURE' I W11..L • 
I'T"S JIJsrA WTn£ SNOW. lfOJ SE~ tr 9RJJSH~ RiGHT 

OFF" ANI> THE'N • , , 
E'R••• '(()() \E Gar ••• 
CJM, •• 





The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Paeudologlst 5 Authorol 
quote, Wll· llam­10 First word ol 
quote 13 Alt 14-Gay 1 5 Beer lngre· 
dlent 17 Radardot 18 Dynamite 
Inventor 19 Sword 20 Throws a lit 22 Smooth peach 24 Agreeable 
quality 28 Record 27 Snips 29 Author Wilde 33 Parisian 
friend 36 Frothed 39 Arab garment 40 Rest ol quote 
C) 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

43 Spasm 1/15/86
All Rights Reserved

44 Agreement 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:

45 Wavy In heraldry 7 Earpart 46 Substandard 8 Choose 
English 9 Conference 48 Precipitous site SO Gulnness 10 "-my serpent 53 France ol old Nile?" 57 Compatible 11 Ariz. Indian 61 Brooks 12 Ready lor 62 Shake -I business 63 Tex. team 16 Observe 
member 21 Title ol 85 Woelsme! respect 86 Skin 23 Footless 67 Oxandgo animals 68 Margarita 25 Spats 
L_,,,.,..,......._.H,..,,.,.,..,,....111111..nll ..... 
This week 
Ingredient 28 Quenches 69 In favor ol 30 Calvados 
70 Walters' Items capital 
1/15/86

71 Connery 31 Underthe covers 42 Wedding 55 Camel's cousin. 
DOWN 32 Unusual ceremony 56 Ruhrclty 1 Zodiac sign 33 Deeds 47 Xanthippe e.g. 57 Surpass 2 Moslem religion 34 Dally delivery 49 Com measure 58 Patron saint 3 VIbrant 35 Early Peruvian 51 Put In Ioree of Norway 4 Rueful one 37 Intellect 52 George Bums' 59 Tyrant of old 5 Desk Item 38 Corroded trademark 80 Tal Mahal site 6 Nameless 41 Bald one 54 Kukla's pal 64 Curve 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

~ ~~~oQecQU2~[l~ 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame SaJnt Mary's Grilled Ham Steak Roast Turkey wI Dressing Cream Chicken over Biscuits Baked Breaded Fish Cod Fish Cakes Beef & Bean Chimichanga Cheese Enchiladas 


TV Tonight 

6:00P.M.  16 NewsCenter 16  1l Georae Bums' Comedy Week  
1l Eyewitness News  10:00P.M.  16 St. Ebewbere  
11 NewsWatcb  ll The Equalizer  
6:30P.M.  16 NBC Nlpdy Newt  11 Hotel  
1l CBS Evening News  46 Calnry Temple  
11 ABC's World News Tonigbt  IO:JOP.M.  46 Lowell LundJCrom  
7:00P.M.  16 M*A*S*H  li:OOP.M.  16 NewiCeater 16  
1l Three's Company  ll Eyewitness News  
18 Jeopardy  18 NewsWatcb  
7:30P.M.  16 Ramey Miller  46 Pralte tbe Lord  
ll College BAsketball: Indiana n.  
ObloState  ll:JOP.M.  16 ToaJabt Sllow  
18 Wbeel of Fortune  1l T.J. Hooker/CBS Late Movie  
18 ABC News NiptUne  
8:00P.M.  16 Hlgbway to Heaven 18 MacGyver 46 Renewed Mind  UA.M. ll:JOA.M.  18 Eye on HoUywoocl 16 David Letterman  
9:00P.M.  16 Blacke's Mqlc  ll Nlgbtwatdl  
11 Dynasty  2:00A.M.  46 lndependeat Network Newa  


ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE ALL THE /YEWS THA rs 
Center fM "on-VIolence ...111n1 r•ll-tt•• Half. 
CLASSES STARTING FIT TO PRIIYT 
_.._ 
.._,..,OMINe 1M,..._ rioiMH 11Mf CJH~erl"f 
1717 E South Bend Ave . 

Nelleu/CMIIUMOII T.~. fiDIMOe
Loa•.... MC_,..,. .... ,. South Bend, Indiana 
........... N.Y. TIMES 
o-,..,OOMMftf,..,.l 272~135 
lfOOI ...,.IHHIII,...,._ 
~-H ICIIPUIN

C"'I:Jll7-.JH-JIJIO 
Suulra:tu~Nto: 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 283-2043 
TlloMUII-.:ld, H.D, 
Edlltill100a1Ce!1leflld 

•-;,U7. c,..,.,...._,L
81UO 



P"'-----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 15,1986-page 8 



S~orts 

Irish up record to 9-2 with 5-1 mark over holidays 
Holtz adds five new assistant coaches to his staff 
By LARRY BURKE 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Five new assistant football coaches joined Lou Holtz' staff during Christmas break, including former Pitt head coach Foge Fazio and holdover Mike StOck, an Irish assistant for nine years under two previous Notre Dame coaches. 
Fazio, who was named to the staff on Dec. 26, will serve as defensive coordinator, while Stock's specific duties will be an­nounced once the staff is complete. 
Other recent additions to the staff include former Stanford of­fensive line coach Tony Yelovich, former Minnesota offensive line coach George Stewart, and former Minnesota wide receiver coach Pete Cordelli. Terry Forbes, defensive coordinator and linebacker coach the last four years at Akron under 
Note 
Because of technical pro­blems, Sports Wednesday does not appear in today's Observer. It will return next week. 
head coach Jim Dennison, joined Holtz' staff Dec. 16. Stock, Yelovich, Stewart and Cordelli will work with the Irish of-

fense, while Forbes will join Fazio's crew on the defensive side. Holtz figures to make one more addition on the defensive side before specific duties will be finalized for the en­tire staff. 
The way things are shaping up on the offensive side, Holtz may decide to handle the duties of of­fensive coordinator himself, while Stock would work the offensive backs and Cordelli would coach the wide receivers. Yelovich and Stewart figure to handle the offen­sive line coaching duties. Holtz also has Vinny Cerrato, the former Minnesota recruiting coordinator who was named to the staff on Dec. 9, to help out on the offensive side. 
Defensively, Holtz has veterans George Kelly and Joe Yohto, nam­ed to the staff early last month, to join Fazio and Forbes. Yonto figures to handle the defensive line, 
while  Kelly  works  with  the  
linebackers  and  Forbes  with  the  
secondary under Fazio.  

The 46-year-old Fazio compiled a 25-18-3 record in four years as the Panthers' head coach from 1982­
85. Pitt earned Cotton and Fiesta Bowl bids in his first two seasons. Fazio's 17 victories (9-3, 8-3-1) in his first two seasons matched the best two-year start in Pittsburgh history. 
Fazio took over the head job at Pitt following two separate stops as linebacker coach for the Panthers. He served four years in that post from 1969-72 under Carl DePas­qua, then returned to the job from 1977-81 under Jackie Sherrill, also serving as defensive coordinator 
see COACHES, page 5 
' ~ 
(~ 
·~
i 
All in all, the time over Christmas break was well-spent for the Notre Dame basketball team. The Irish upped their record from 4-1 to 9-2 and their national rank­ing from 17th to 13th. 
But perhaps more importantly, every player did well enough scholastically to maintain his eligibility for the remainder of the season. 
The period was highlighted ·by victories in three of four road games, including a win over tradi­tional foe DePaul at the Rosemont Horizon. In addition, the Irish were able to extend their winning streak to seven games, their longest winning streak since the 1980-81 season. 
Notre Dame has yet to be re­bounded in a game this season, averaging nearly 12 more rebounds per game than its opponents. 
Sophomore guard David Rivers suffered a bruised knee against Providence on Jan. 7. Although he continues to wear a protective pad over the knee, in scoring each of the last four games, and notched a career-high 28 points Monday night against Brigham Young. 
Up next is always-tough UCLA Saturday at the ACC (2:30 p.m., NBC-TV). The Bruins are struggl­ing this season under second-year coach Walt Hazzard after winning the National Invitation Tourna­ment at the end of last year. 
Here is a complete rundown of the last six Irish games: 
BYU 80, ND 76 (OT) 
Just alongside the Brigham Young campus lies a mountain with the letter "Y" engraved in its side. But while the Notre Dame basket­ball team has climbed many moun­tains this season, the Irish were unable to get over a tough Brigham Young team Monday night. 
The seven-game winning streak of the Irish came to a rude end, 80­76 in overtime, in front of 20,913 came back and tied it. After we won the three on the road, it would have been sweet to get this one." 

Rivers scored a career-high 28 points, converting 16-of-18 free throw attempts. The Irish sophomore had a rough night from the field, however, hitting only 6­of-22 shots, and often was guilty of forcing things as BYU's zone col­lapsed on him every time he tried to penetrate. 
"Our execution wasn't there and I take full responsibility for that," Rivers said. "Their defense was packed in tightly. When the out­side shots weren't falling, I tried to create inside." 
Jeff Chatman, the Cougars' leading scorer with an 18.8 point average paced BYU with 21 points. Center Tom Gneiting added 18 points of his own to aid the BYU effort. 
Jim Dolan, Ken Barlow and Donald Royal all fouled out of the contest as the Irish totaled 29 fouls in the game. Notre Dame previous­ly had not fouled out a player this season until Joseph Price was sent to the bench with five fouls against DePaul last Saturday. 
-JeffBiumb 
ND 70, DePaul 54 
CHICAGO -It took all but 40 minutes for the Notre Dame basketball team to end the frustra­tion of six consecutive losses to DePaul, as the Irish pounded the Blue Demons 70-54Jast Saturday at the Rosemont Horizon. 
"Emotionally, we were just tired 
of losing to DePaul," said Irish 
coach Digger Phelps. "That, more 
than anything else, got us ready to 
play. I thought we played very 
well." 
And it would be hard to pinpoint 
any one player who spurred the 
Irish to the victory, their seventh 
straight, to mark the longest winn­
ing streak since two eight-game streaks during the 1980-81 season. 
This was a team effort all the way. 
lrutially, it was Joseph Price hit­ting from the outside for 10 first­half points. Then, it was Ken Barlow pumping in 16 points in the second half for a game total of 18. And, of course, throughout the contest it was David Rivers, inside and outside, for a game-high 24 points. 
But one doesn't necessarily have to score to contribute. Jim Dolan proved that in grand style, coming off the bench to haul in 11 re­bounds to go along with his four 
points.  
"Jimmy  really  keyed  the  
defense," Phelps added.  
The  fourth  Irish  senior,  Tim  

Kempton (Price, Barlow and Dolan are the other three), also chipped in with six rebounds and four assists as the group assured itself of at least one win over DePaul during their careers. 
The Irish game plan going in was to neutralize the Demons' inside game to force them outside, bank­ing on the fact that DePaul is not a good outside shooting team. That fact was supported when Notre Dame shut down DePaul in the middle and the Demons managed only 21-of-56 from the field. 
"Our guys were trying to push it in, but they usually found five guys in the paint," second-year DePaul coach Joey Meyer said. "But we thought if we could keep Notre Dame under 50 percent shooting, we could win, and we didn't do that (the Irish shot 59 percent from the floor.)" 
-JeffBiumb 


ND 78, Providence 72 
Irish head basketball coach Dig­ger Phelps and his team expected a tough game when they travelled to take on the Providence Friars on January seventh, and tough was what they got. 
see BREAK, page 6 

Joe Yonto (left), shown here with then-Irish football coach Dan Devine in 1977, will return to the sidelines under Lou Holtz. Yon­to was an administrative assistant for the last five years under Gerry Faust. Larry Burke details the rest ofHoltz' staffat left. 
fans at the Marriott Center on the BYUcampus. 
After struggling with the host Cougars all night, the Irish ap­peared to have victory within their grasp in the closing seconds. David Rivers drove into heavy traffic in the final seconds with the score tied at 63, but was unable to get a shot off. Rivers thought he was fouled. 
Instead, he was called for traveling as regulation time expired. 
BYU took control of the over­time period, at one point pulling in front by six, to up its season record to 6-9. 
"We were flat from the beginn­ing," Irish coach Digger Phelps said. "I thought it was the sign of a great team, though, the way we 








