---~-~-------------------­
Sports Wednesday-page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 55 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Irish Guard unit temporarily let go says band director . 
By JIM RILEY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Irish Guard has been temporarily dismissed, accor­ding to James Phillips, acting director of bands. 
"As of this time they are tem­porarily dismissed and <their dismissal l is under investiga­tion,'' said Phillips. "They are not disbanded." he said, adding that the Guard will continue as an institution. 
Phillips said not all of the Guard members were involved in the indiscretions. "Ap­parently it's not the entire Guard," he said. He declined to say which members or how many members were involved because he was still looking into the matter. 
Phillips declined to elaborate on the reasons why the Guard was dismissed. "It's a band problem, not a University prob­lem," he said. "It's no big deal." 
A notice appeared under glass on a bulletin board by the bandroom and band director's office in Washington Hall on 
Monday.  The  notice  said,  
"Because  of  severe  miscon­ 
duct  and  total  disregard  of  

band policy as regards alcohol consumption in uniform at the Penn State -ND game on Sat­urday, the Irish Guard have been dismissed from the band as of Monday, Nov. 17, 1986. 
The notice was written on a letterhead bearing the names of Phillips, Father George Wis­kirchen, assistant director of bands, and Nicholas Morrison, 
' 
also an assistant director of bands. 
Band members said that nothing was announced at practice Monday or Tuesday, but that the notice was visible to all in the hallway on both days. 
~·-'~..-,

Phillips said late Tuesday . . ·~ ~ '.~ that the notice was no longer posted. 
Guards who were contacted Tuesday refused to comment or referred comment to a guard they said would act as spokes­man. The spokesman returned a call and said, "We have no comment to say." 
Phillips said Monday he was not finished talking to the Guard, but he was unclear Tuesday as to whether or not a meeting between the Guard and himself had taken place. 
Band members said there is an appeal process for severed band members outlined in the band manual, but they said they were not sure if the process applies to Guard mem­bers. Appeals are usually made to the elected student band of­ficers who, after reviewing the case, make a recommendation to the directors, according to band members. The ultimate decision, however, rests with the directors, said band mem­bers. 

Band members said that ap­peals are often successful. The Observer;Suzanne Poch 
"The Irish Guard will never Singing in the snow be finished forever," said Phil­lips, adding that the Guard will A lonely walker leaves footprints in the newly scene would be replaced a few hours later by be "with the band" in the fu­fallen snow yesterday on the sidewalk in front the fury of the annual snowball fight between ture. of the Administration building. This peaceful north and south quad. 
North Korean president seen alive on television despite death reports 
Assorlatt>d J>rt>ss 
SEOUL, South Korea -North Korea showed its "great leader,'' President Kim II Sung, on television Tuesday while ignoring reports in rival South Korea that Kim died or was embroiled in a serious power struggle. 
A Defense Ministry spokes­man in Seoul acknowledged North Korean news media reports that Kim was alive and added: "we are closely watch­ing whether these develop­ments in the North have resulted from a serious inter­nal power struggle or its (the North's) high-level psychologi­cal warfare hiding a sinister plot for military provocation." 
An Asian diplomat in Pyon­gyang, reached by The Associ­ated Press by telephone from Peking, said he saw the 74­year-old Kim at Pyongyang Airport on Tuesday IIand he is in absolutely good health." 
The diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added: "Everything is all right in this country, the situation is ab­solutely normal. . . . There seems to be nothing correct about these reports (of an as­sassination or power seizure). . . . It is absolutely normal, there is nothing wrong. He is absolutely normal, he is in good health." 
Questions about Kim were raised Monday when the mini­stry said North Korean propaganda loudspeakers along the demilitarized zone between North·. and South Korea announced Kim was killed in a shooting incident. 

North Korean embassy offi­cials at various posts abroad denied Kim was dead, but offi­cial North Korean media kept silent through Monday. 
On Tuesda~. Pyongyang's of­ficial Korean Central News Agency said Kim had gone to Pyongyang Airport to welcome Mongolian President Jambyn Batmunkh and that cheers for Kim of "Long Jive the great leader!" burst forth from the thousands of peopk on hand. The report was monitored in Tokyo. 
Japanese television stations showed rare segments from North Korean television of Kim, in a dark overcoat and cap, walking up a gold­bordered red carpet to meet Batmunkh, shaking hands ami embracing him. The two walked together back down the carpet. Crowds lining one side cheered as soldiers stood at at­tention holding rifles with fixed bayonets. 
see KOREA, page 4 

Snow battle rages on quads 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 
A one-year armistice ended last night as snow prompted a band of north­quad guerillas to renew hos­tilities that rage during every first snow-fall of the school year. 
The north-quad contingent confronted Dillon Hall at 
10:37 p.m. Minutes later Alumni Hall residents ig­nited Roman-candles and smoke bombs while Dillon mobilized more than a hundred residents into the first battle behind the Sorin statue. 
The armies numbered into the thousands as residents from most halls answered cries issuing from the campus. 
However, casualities and property damage marred much of the fun and games. The Notre Dame Infirmary reported that "quite a few" students had come in with injuries from the snow-fight and were still coming in early this morning. 
Rector of Cavanaugh Hall Father Matthew Miceli said not much damage had been 
done  but  said  there  were  
"one  or  two  broken  win­ 
dows" in his hall.  

Father Joseph Carey, rec­tor of Dillon Hall, had no damage to report but said he expected some damage before the battle ended. "For the past ten years something has happened," he said. 
Rector of Sorin Hall Bro­ther Thomas O'Malley said nothing had been broken in his hall either. But he added, "This thing is so stupid." 




In Brief 

Theodore's will be closed until after Thanksgiving break according to Theodore's student manager Laurie Bink. Bink said the dance floor needs to be revarnished because it wasn't waxed right when first built and more people have been dancing on it than were originally expected. She also said damages from this past weekend still need to be repaired. -The Observer 
David Letterman is in trouble with his local police again. Letterman, fined $40 in May when caught using a radar detector in his car, was stopped last week for driving 57 mph in a 40 mph zone. He also received a ticket for not having a valid Connecticut driver's license, police said. Letterman has until Dec. 5 to contest his latest ticket, worth $147, or to plead guilty and mail in the fine. ­
Associated Press 

Security forces in Afghanistan frequently torture political prisoners and Soviet personnel often watch, Amnesty In­ternational said Wednesday. The London-based human rights organization said it believes torture in Afghanisdtan is "widespread and systematic." Amnesty's 51-page report quoted former prisoners as saying they were beaten, subjected to electric shocks and burned with cigarettes. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Resumes, Resumes--How to Write One" will be pre­sented by Joan Mcintosh of the Career and Placement Services office today at 4 p.m. and 6:30p.m. in the office. All interested students are invited to attend. -The Observer 
"Death with Dignity? Reflections on the Impact of High Technology on Clinical Medicine," will be discussed tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Speak­ing will be Mark Siegler, professor of Medicine and direc­tor of the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the Uni­versity of Chicago. This G.T.E. Foundation Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series is sponsored by Notre Dame's Pro­gram in Science, Technology, and Values. -The Observer 
The Grace Hall Debate Final will be held tonight at 9 in the Center for Social Concerns. Whether or not capital punishment should be constitutionally banned will be debated by the fourth and ninth floors. All students are welcome. to attend. -The Observer 
A day-long seminar on the Tax Reform Act of 1986 will take place Thursday from 8 a.m. to 4:30p.m. in the Rotary Room of the College Dining Hall at Saint Mary's. The seminar will present information for professionals in the fields of tax preparation and tax and financial planning. -The Observer · 
Saint Mary's second annual High School Women's Choir Festival will be held Thursday at 9:45a.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Twelve choirs from three states will take part in the festival, including a performance by the Saint 


Visit to Cornell reminds one of Notre Dame's blessings 
When I was deciding which college to attend, I flirted briefly with the idea of going to Cornell University. Cornell had a good government pro­gram and from the pictures in the catalog, seemed to be a beautiful campus. 
I came close to applying, but the cost of at­tending Cornell was way out of reach. Months later, I was accepted at Notre Dame. 
This past fall break, I had a lot of time on my hands, so I decided to take a trip Cornell and look at what I had passed up. I know a girl at Cornell that graduated from high school with me. While I was in the neighborhood, I thought I would drop in. 
When I got there, it took me over a half-hour to find a parking space on campus, parking being a precious commodity on the campus. After I parked, I'spent a good deal of the day wandering around the campus. 
I thought construction at Notre Dame had been bad, Cornell was swamped with new con­struction. They were even tearing down one building to make room for a new one. 
The campus store was interesting to visit since the whole building was underground (I almost missed it completely). The student cen­ter was very impressive, all six stories of it. 
Other than that, I was a little disappointed. Cornell didn't look as nice as it had in the cat­alog. Maybe I'm just too used to looking at Touchdown Jesus and the Grotto. 
In some places at Cornell there were overly­spacious quads and in others the buildings were jammed next to each other. The campus was right in the middle of the city of Ithaca; take one step off campus and you were in the city. There were cars going through the campus without any restrictions. 
Quite a change from Notre Dame. 

It was late in the afternoon when I visited Lorrie. We hadn't seen each other for close to a year-and-a-half, so needless to say she was quite surprised when I came into her off­campus house. ("Eric! What are you doing here?") 
We talked for over two hours. We talked about what we had been doing since the last time we had seen each other. Inevitably, we talked about our two schools; mine under the Golden Dome and her's high above Cayuga's waters. 
Cornell doesn't have parietals. Lorrie told me about a girl who lived with her boyfriend in her dorm freshman year. As long as you pay room and board, they don't care who you room and board with at Cornell. I had to repeatedly remind myself that I went to a Catholic univer­sity where such things are frowned upon. 
Unlike Notre Dame, dorm-life isn't as impor-

Eric Bergamo 
Accent Copy Editor 
tant at Cornell. More students at Cornell live 
off campus and commute than at Notre Dame. 
The issue of divestment was definitely more heated at Cornell. Pro-divestment forces had built a number of "shanty towns" on one of the quads at Cornell. Each one torn down by secur­ity. The confrontations between the two were becoming increasingly violent while the majority of the student really didn't care about the issue. 
But some things never change when going to different colleges. Lorrie had a huge report due for a class the next day and she was going to start it after "Moonlighting." 
I don't think I would have been happy going to Cornell, and I don't think Lorrie would've been happy going to Notre Dame. Indeed, we both loved the schools we attended and would stay at our schools until we graduated, maybe even staying for graduate studies. 
I enjoy going to football games and watching Tim Brown run kickoffs back for scores. Lorrie enjoys going to Cornell hockey games and seeing the Big Red win a big one. I love the camaraderie and friendship of living in Zahm Hall while Lorrie likes the independence of living off-campus. 
I'm happy at Notre Dame and Lorrie is happy at Cornell. I've heard that being happy with what you have is the best thing. 
I don't think Lorrie and I would have it any other way. 
Mary's College Women's Choir directed by Nancy Menk. Admission is free and open to public. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 

We're having a heat wave, a tropical, heat wave. Today's balmy tempretures will soar into the mid to upper 30s and the clouds will increase throughout the day. Rain or snow likely Wednesday night. Low in the middle 30s with the chance of precipitation 60 percent. Rain likely Thursday. High in the upper 30s. 


Chance of rain 70 percent. -Associated Press 
--Ihe-Obse~'or---.L~Y~'-' _ --__ 
Design Editor .. . ........ . Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Layout. .. ..... Melinda MurphyDesign Assistant ............ Chris Donnally Accent Copy Editor ....... Mike NaughtonLayout Staff.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Biddlecom Accent Layout .. ............ Sharon Emmite Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . Becky Gundermann Typists .............. Esther Ivory........................................... Smed Laboe ND Day Editor .............. Kim Yuratovac News Editor ............... Chris Bednarski Sports Wed. Editor ............... Pete Gegen Copy Editor ................ Marilyn Benchik Sports Wed. Layout ............ Matt Breslin Sports Copy Editor ............ Terry Lynch Ad Design............... Catherine Ramsden Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Bob White Photographers ...... Suzanne Poch 
Tile ObRrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 

Tile ObRrver is a member of Tile AIIOCiated Press. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 
the 

''GOLDER DOME'' 
in a 5-color limited edition lithograph by 

SCOft L. HENDBIE 
(see it hanging in the OBSERVER office.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 Price *30.00 PosT PAID 
Send check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkhart, IN 46516 IND. Orders Add 6% T&x/Sh1p 1 Wk. 

• 
O.C.R.A. 


INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE NEEDED 
We are seeking consultants {or firms operating in a variety of foreign countries. All initial employment is on a part-time, consultant basis. If the abilities and desires of the individual match the long term needs of our client firms, permanent, full-time employment is possible. QUALIFICATIONS: Individuals with technical expertise--evidenced by an advanced degree(s)-­who have fluency in a foreign language, and are also thoroughly familiar with the customs and culture of a foreign country. O.C.RA. is an executive search firm specializing in filling both tactical and strategic needs of international firms. For a confidential assessment of your qualifications vis-a-vis our needs, please send resume, including current address and phone number to: 
Overseas Commercial Research Associates 354 St. Francis St. Mobile, Alabama 36602 
The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1986-page 3 


HPC hears of dangers of quad snowball fight 
By REGIS COCCIA tee will be chaired by Susan Assistant News Editor Hayes, Marty Loesch and Mary Owens; the Female Is­The annual campus snowball sues committee's chairmen fight and the Board of Trustees are Jim Crandall and Ann San­Residentiality Report were derson; the Hall Structures among the topics discussed at committee chairmen are Bob Tuesday night's Hall Presi­Daley and Frank Publicover; dents' Council meeting. the Intellectual Environment 
Assistant Director for committee is chaired by Bruce Residence Life Jim Lies spoke Lohman and Doug Wurth. to the Council about the poten­McCauley said the H.esiden­tial dangers involved in snow­tiality Report has set three ball throwing, noting that 22 goals: a one-page summary of people went to the hospital for questions and issues from each injuries incurred during a committee before Christmas, a snowball fight last year which first draft of the report after caused $2,000 worth of damage. Christmas and a final draft of 
"I don't want to overem­the report before spring break. phasize this," Lies said, "but I In other business, Sally want to tell you about (the win­Derengowski, of the Non­dows broken in the snowball Varsity Athletics office, spoke fightl. I don't think it's the in­to the Council regarding the tention to throw snowballs and NVA Late Night Olympics break windows, but students February 13, 1987. Deren­should be responsible (about gowski said the Late Night itl." Olympics "has a two-fold pur­
Lies asked the Council to use pose; we want to raise money its influence to curb damage for the Special Olympics and associated with the snowball let the student body use the en­fight. "You have more voice tire ACC," noting it as the only than any organization on time of the year students can campus I've ever seen," Lies use all the facilities. told the Council. 
"I'd appreciate anything you Derengowski said the NVA could do. We need a ground­has divided the event, which swell of student involvement will take place from 9 p.m. to cto prevent the damage), said 4 a.m., into two areas: Olympic Lies." sports, requiring advance 
Lies said, "We're not trying team registration; and Not-so­to stop (the snowball fight). It's Olympic sports, such as nerf inevitable it's going to hap­basketball and putt-putt. She pen." said there will be a nominal 
Coordinator of Board of Trus­charge for each game. tees reports Bruce Lohman and "We've thought about having Morrissey Hall freshman Pat a sock hop," Derengowski said, McCauley announced the four "since it's during Valentine's commiUees set up by the Board Day weekend. of Trustees Residentiality "We need your assistance in Report. developing interest in the 
According to McCauley, the dorms," Derengowski told the Rector and Hall Staff commit-Council. 

AP Photo

Fly, be free 
A red-tailed hawk takes off in the headlands freedom. The Golden Gate Raptor Migration above San Francisco's Golden gate Bridge as Observatory bands the birds to track their ornotholigist Allen Fish returns the bird to migration. 


Ward requests election recount 
Associated Press with Secretary of State Edwin tended error rather than fraud 
J. Simcox. Ward's campaign would account for any shift in SOUTH BEND -Democratic paid a $4,500 recount fee, $10 the margin uncovered by 
congressional challenger for each of the district's 450 recount auditors. His sup­Thomas W. Ward formally re­precincts. porters, on the other hand, quested a state recount Tues­The three-member Recount "have a hunch the election may day to settle the nation's closest Commission scheduled a have been stolen," he said. House race. meeting Thursday with repre­
The narrow 66-vote margin sentatives of Ward and Hiler to A recount of all precincts, showing incumbent Republi­begin laying plans for the rather than targeting a hand­can John P. Hiler the winner of recount, said Simcox, who ful, may turn up votes for Hiler the 3rd District contest cast a chairs the commission. The as well, Ward acknowledged. cloud of doubt over the election, other seats are occupied by the "Sure we may re-open a 
Ward said. state chairmen of the major po­precinct and find some votes "The best way to lift the litical parties, the GOP's Gor­for John Hiler, and those may don Durnil and the Democrat's be the votes that put Hiler in
cloud, the best way to John Livengood. office. But that's the way to
elimimate any controversy, is 
to have the Recount Commis­"I am confident that when all go," he said. sion recount all the precincts," is said and done I will be reaf­he said at a news conference firmed as the new congress­James A. Masters, another 
attorney representing the
called to announce the move. man from the 3rd District," Hiler could not immediately Ward said. Ward had initially Ward campaign, said the cal­be reached for comment Tues­claimed victory on election culated risk of a full recount day. night on the basis of a counting may favor Ward. The key is the 
In Indianapolis, Ward's cam­error made by a computer firm distinction in voting patterns paign manager, Michael Mar­hired by several South Bend between precincts using mac­shall, and attorney Joe Don­news organizations. hines and those using computer 
nelly filed a recount petition Ward said he believes unin-punch cards, he said. 
FACULTY COURSE EVALUATIONS ARE COMING ! 

• 
Your chance to evaluate the ND Faculty and see the results! 

• 
Results will be available prior to Advance Registration for Fall classes. 

• 
You will receive your forms immediately following Thanksgiving Break. 

• 
To return --each dorm will have a box ... 

• 
Your input is of exftll'errml<e value ! ! 






surgical operation at the San Francisco Zoo Monday morning. The doctors reported that the surgery went fine. 
Tuxedo-clad bomber arrested for booby-trapped bouquet of flowers 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A man identified by police as the tuxedo-clad bomber who delivered a booby-trapped bou­quet that injured two women was arrested Tuesday at a country house he reportedly shared with the estranged hus­band of one of the victims. 
Shaun Small, 27, was taken into custody in rural Lake County on a federal warrant charging him with detonation of an explosive device involv­ing personal injury. Bail was set at $100,000. 
The bomber allegedly tried to deliver a second flower ar­rangement to one of the vic­tims' parents a short time after Monday's explosion, but the woman's 78-year-old father turned him away. 
Lake County sheriff's Capt. Glen Perkins said Small was arrested without incident when he left a house and got into a car in Clearlake Park, about 75 miles northeast of San Fran­cisco. 
He said the FBI had asked officers to watch the house be­cause it was believed Small was sharing it with longtime friend Peter Pilaski. 
Pilaski is the estranged hus­band of one of the bombing vic­tims, Melanie Pilaski, 41. FBI Agent Robert Delinski said 


Korea 
continuedfrom page 1 
Earlier Tuesday, the South Korean Defense Ministry said North Korean loudspeakers were blaring that 0 jin U, North Korea's defense mini­ster, had seized power. There were no details. 
The South's defense mini­ster, Lee Ki-baek, said that as of 10:04 a.m. Tuesday, the loudspeakers were playing somber funeral music and saying "The nation's great star has fallen. Let us glorify his great achievements.'' 

That was about the same time first reports were coming from Pyongyang that Kim was at the airport. 
At noon, Lee added, the loudspeakers said Kim had delegated all power to his 44­year-old son, Kim Jong 11. 
U.S. military authorities said conditions were normal Tues­day around Panmunjom, the truce village in the DMZ. 
Tuesday authorities also were searching for Pilaski, but only to question him. 
Authorities said the bombing apparently stemmed from an ugly divorce proceeding be­tween the Pilaskis. Ms. Pilaski's father, Willard Swanstrom, said Small recently threatened his daughter because she had frozen the couple's bank ac­counts. 
Also injured was Ms. Pilaski's co-worker, Pamela Castro, 42, of San Bruno. 
An all-points bulletin for Small was issued less than an hour after the bomb exploded in the GSA office on the 33rd floor of the downtown Tishman Building, where Ms. Pilaski is a supervisor handling federal government supply surpluses, said San Francisco Police Of­ficer Dave Ambrose. 
He said Ms. Castro told offi­cers she heard the bouquet of dried flowers had been left at the GSA mailroom on the 32nd floor and she carried them up 
• 
• 

:EVERYWEDNESDAYNIGHT: 
e AT e 
to Ms. Pilaski's desk. 
"I placed the basket of flowers between Melanie and myself," she was quoted as saying in the police report. "Melanie reached into the bas­ket, grabbing a wallet-sized box in silver wrapping paper with pink ribbon. When Melanie lifted the small box, it exploded." 
Ambrose said a witness who knew Small said she saw him deliver the flowers to the GSA office. That witness and others told police the man was dressed in a white tuxedo and a derby and was wearing makeup, in­cluding eyeliner, and what ap­peared to be a fake beard and mustache, the officer said. 
He said officers also learned Small may have been headed for the El Cerrito home of Ms. Pilaski's parents. 
Taxi driver Peter Chandler told police he picked up a man, who he believed to be a florist, at the El Cerrito station of the BART subway system and drove him to the Swanstroms' home. 

: D~~f 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. :
e............... e
Mishawaka, IN e NIGHTCLUB (219) 259-7233 e e Doors open 8;30 pm. Showtime 9:30 e 
•-----------COUPON ·---------.. : ADMIT 4 STUDENTS FOR THE PRICE OF 2! : 
......'"............ ---... 
• • 
e 
• • • 
• 
•: 

""'~Q.I!!!Q.~!r.~g............................................e 
NOVEMBER 19  •  
TIMW~OE  •  
What is Tim Walkoe's favorite joke?  e  
"James Watt". (We like him already.)  •  
His stand-up comedy routines are  •  
nicely complimented by his cleverly  •  
sung parodies and irreverent treatment  •  
of old television show themes.  •  

Also appearing: Rich Purpul'l • 
~~~ I 




SMC collects $1,077 for United Way fund 
By KAREN WEBB 
Copy Editor 

The Saint Mary's United Way campaign came to a close Nov. 14 with a total of $1,077 col­lected, announced Sarah Cook, vice president for student af­fairs, at Tuesday night's Pro­gramming Board meeting. 
The total fell short of the original goal of $1,800, accor­ding to Cook, because halls and classes pledged only one-third of what they did last year. 
"You did a good job with it, though, because I know how hard it is to collect money from people," Cook said to members of the board. 
Cook announced a student subcommittee will be forming to study the ''Mission of the Col­lege" statement in the Saint Mary's Bulletin of Informa­tion. 
According to Cook, the sub­committee will also study the Holy Cross sisters' Philosophy of Education which is more detailed and specific than the bulletin's statement. 

The mission statement pres­ently in the bulletin was written in 1972. 
The purpose of the commit­tee is to update and rewrite the mission statement for the bul­letin, which is designed to out­line the school's approach to education as a Catholic liberal arts college for women, by in­corporating both the Philoso­phy statement and the Mission statement, Cook said. 
The subcommittee of 11 stu­dents, consisting partly of stu­dent government members, will be chaired by Rebecca Het­land, student member of the Board of Regents. 
Cook also announced the Ox­fam Fast will be this Thursday. 
This year's theme, "Feminization of Poverty," is the topic of a lecture to be given at Regina Hall, 7:30, Wednes­day night, before the fast begins at 9 p.m., according to Cook. 
e~ froJll the ~'~ . ~ H''I. ~ht8 
I'm Mary Beth. 
I have joined the 
styling team at 
The Knights 
men's haircutting 
and hair care. 


Come help me make my career a success 
272-03121 272-8471 54533 Terrace Lane (across &omMartin's) 
NAUnLES 
24 HOUR DFUVE THRU 
THANKSGRnNGSPECML 

MACHO COMBINATIONBURRITO 

FREE! 
with o S10.00order Expires 11-26-86 ask for the special when you order 
DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00-Midnight 272·5455 501 Dixieway North. Roseland, Indiana 
-----------------~------------------~----­
----·--------------­







"ie~~_O_i_n__t____________w_edn~esday~,No-vemb-er19~,1986~-pa~ges 
Society must cultivate a true attitude of peace 
In his talk with Notre Dame students, Jerry Falwell was questioned about his feelings toward the American bombing of Libya that occured in April, 1986. Simply put, he supported the action as most Americans do and putting it simp­ly, he justified the action as good people <Americans) defending themselves against a bad person ( Ghadafi). This letter is not addressing that specific opinion or incident. I'd like to question the attitude seemingly held by Falwell and many other Americans toward ac­hieving world peace and also to suggest a silly and idealistic, but a better and more realistic way of achieving world peace. 

Pete Morgan 
guest column 
I'd like to consider the idea of peace -a peace that is beyond merely the ab­sence of war. Such a peace cannot be American, just as history has proven that peace cannot be Roman, English, or German. True world peace cannot stem from the ideals of one nation or culture because these ideals inevitably clash with the peace ideals of another nation or culture. In the same way, peace cannot be made or kept by gov­ernments because governments exist only to protect and advance the inter­ests of their respective peoples. An ex­ample of a lack of peace exists in Nor­thern Ireland. Many people in the Republic of Ireland believe that if the British would simply go back to their own island, peace would be achieved. Many British people feel just as strongly that Northern Ireland is jus­tifiably theirs and that if the Irish would leave them alone, peace would be achieved. The ideas clash and conflict exists, but the governments are not at war. 
The situation is incredibly complex, involving factors from economics to educational systems. What it points out is that governments cannot establish peace, for even if one government or the other were to withdraw its claim, peace would not be achieved. Animosity toward the other side would still exist -and even increase-in the hearts of people on both sides. The con­flict exists between people on both sides and in their attitudes toward their op­position. Peace does not trickle down from governments that are not at war with each other; rather, true peace comes from the ground up, with gov­ernments being able to negotiate meaningful changes only after an atti-
Doonesbury 
tude of peace exists among the people of both sides. Until this attitude of peace exists, people cannot depend on government -any government-to negotiate anything more than a tempo­rary absence of war. 
So what is an attitude of peace? It is more than just the hope that there will be no more war, and it is not the idea that ours is the best way and that others should learn to conform to our beliefs and to play by our rules. These attitudes are held by every culture on earth, and obviously peace does not exist in the world. This "Us vs. Them" mentality is the source of every conflict on the face of the earth, bar none. It follows that an attitude of peace must tran­scend these "Us vs. Them" mental bar­riers. It means that all people must seek a simple "Us" mentality. It means that all must appreciate the differences between people and to seek to under­stand why we are different; it does not blame "Them" for being wrong in their thinking. 

People must realize that differences in history, culture, and religion make it impossible for, say, the Arab and the Israeli Jew to really understand each other. However, a common human na­ture can be understood by people of all races, and nothing stops anyone from being able to appreciate and accept dif­ferences, if he is willing to try. Such an attitude requires that we love our neighbor as much as we love ourselves which, by the way, is a value found af the core of all the world's great religions, not just Christianity. Such an attitude requires a great willingness to give. 
As a Christian, I believe that Christ challenges us to work to establish the Kingdom of God here on earth. I know that we live in a very human world, but I believe that a world in which this at­titude of peace was prevalent would be at least a giant step closer to the Kingdom. It is improbable that this peace will never exist, and if it ever should, it is a safe bet that you and I will never see it. However, anyone who has ever laughed with or made friends with a person from a different back­ground or nationality can agree that such a peace is not impossible. 
We can look also to the whole spec­trum of time and gain hope. We can look to the advances made by mankind through the centuries and see, for in­stance, how modern societies have evolved from essentially barbaric civilizations and how evolving technol­ogy now makes instantaneous commu­nication, sharing of information, and even contact between people separated 
[PRIOR!Tit5) 

SORR'ft KIOS, THERE's 
NO 5UCH THING A5
SORRY, ALia, STILL. NOTHING 

A FRE.£ LUNCH
j AVAILA8/..£. 7Ht f£05 HAV/3. 

HERE Atf!MOREI 
: HAO TO CUTWAY 84CKONtoW 

I 
o INCOMe HOI/SING. 


!=n I 
geographically possible. This gives us a great advantage over our forefathers in our attempt to understand others. We can look to the future and see that space exploration provides a perfect chance for separate nations to come to­gether and work toward a common goal. 
We must realize that to achieve a goal of peace or anything near it, the human race must advance at least as far as it has come to date. We don't know when our time will run out, and assuming that we don't end things ourselves, let us hope that since this universe was created with so much which has not yet been explored and that human society is blessed with so much unmanifested potential, the Creator will not choose to end things yet, thereby leaving so much of His work seemingly• for naught. 
Most importantly, let us treat this ide.alism realistically. The attitudes of a society can change at the rate of only one individual at a time. It isn't easy to change, it isn't natural to change, and in our case, these attitudes won't make America number one in anything except maybe the quest for true peace. It will take uncountable individuals all over the world to adapt this attitude before any effects will ever be seen, and we will never live to see these ef­fects in all probability. However, we all know the alternatives and how dan­gerously close we are to them. Let peace begin with me-we've all said these few words before. If we are to advance toward the Kingdom on earth, someone must take the first step. If not us now, then who will and when? 
Pete Morgan is enrolled in the fresh­men year of studies. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Attacking individuals is also close-minded 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Matthew Slaughter's guest column, "Fundamen­talists Resist Diversity of Thought,'' re­garding seven families who are suing their local schools over textbooks they consider offensive to their religious beliefs. The article stated that fun­damentalists "are now calling for the eradication of one of the basic tenets upon which our government and society are founded: diversity of thought." 
First of all, absolutely no one has the right to judge another religion. 
Second, the author is as narrow­minded as he claims fundamentalists to be. So some people in Tennessee do not want their children exposed to cer­tain material and they are fundamentalists-the only people who are pathologically over-protective of their children. Consider the person who wrote a letter to Father Hesburgh stating that the song "Louie, Louie" had sexual connotations and should not be played at football games. This per­son is certainly not encouraging diver­sity of thought, and she is not necessar­ily a fundamentalist. My point is that no parent, whether Catholic, Protes­tant, or Jewish, really wishes for his or her children to be exposed to ideas that are not in keeping with their religious 
Garry Trudeau 

General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor·in·Chief . .................. Joe Murphy 
Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby · 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan slty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It dotts not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ...................... Tripp Baltz. the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views~! News Editor . ........... :·.... Mark Pankowski 
faith. That is precisely why parents send their children to private, religiously-affiliated schools. 
Furthermore, in stating that there is "a serious problem with the fundamen­talists," Slaughter is exhibiting the same elitist attitude for which he con­demns them. This is not to say that Slaughter and those who share his su­perior attitude "must be rounded up in a heretical witch hunt and burned at the stake." However, "we cannot per­mit any group in our society to attain the dangerous mentality of intellectual supremacy. Society possesses a duty to itself to prevent the development of such a population at all costs." 
Slaughter's article was nothing more than a slanted, cynical attack on a group of individuals. 
Janet Brewer Pasquerilla East 


Write to P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


Quote of the day 

"He who desires to see the living God face to face should not seek Him in the empty firmament of his mind, but in human love." 
Fyodor Dostoyevski (1821-1881) 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager .......... James Carroll Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Welmholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
Ad Design Manager .....•. Mary Carol Creadon 
thelr authors. Column space Is avallablu to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1968 



Accent 
Wednesday, November 19, 1986-page 6 


From Russia 
with love 
Soviet tube stations are rather boring compared with the more familiar London Underground. They are probably, on the whole, more beautiful, with their stained glass and chan­deliers. They are certainly more efficient. Moscavites usually wait 60 seconds for a train while Londeners wait seven minutes. Being deeper underground and much roomier, they even make better bomb shelters. But they are boring; there are no punks, no huskers, and no advertising --especially no advertising. 
appears to be a high level of en­generally steered away from the
JOHN HAYFORD 

thusiasm shown both by the fac­"old ones."
features writer Soviet life is, in many ways, just like Soviet tuhe stations.

ulty and the students. The debate The people are well fed and seem for thL most part content;The final debate ofGrace Hall's tournament has received a very McKenna also said that he is they all have clothes to wear and a place to sleep. But theydebate series will be held tonight positive reaction. At the ques­very pleased with the enthusi­are incredibly conformist. They don'tjaywalk. They don't talk at nine o'clock at The Center For tiorvanswer session, for in­asm, quality, amount ofwork put on the metro. They all wear earth colors. It is not in them to Social Concerns. The topic for stance, there is a lot of feedback in, and the positive feedback try to be different. They won't even talk to us tourists, as if 
this debate is "The United States from the audience. Some people from the University. 
there is an unwritten law that says "thou shalt not fraternize 
should move toward a Constitu­even have to be turned away One of the members of the with the Enemy." :Only the black marketeers will approach 
tional ban on Capital Punishment without getting a chance to ask Fourth Floor team, James 
us, and even then only to offer exchange rates five times in all its forms." any questions." Doerfler, debated on a national 
better than their government will give us. Foreign currency, 
The debate competition at McKenna's involvement in the level in high school. He said that 
you see, is the only money worth anythinQ in Russia. Grace Hall will conclude its nine debate competition has included he hears others talking privately 
Obviously things are controlled by the state. The shops are part series this evening. The two the selection of the topics and in class about an issue brought 
generic: shoe store, bookstore, tourist store. But the people top teams are the ninth floor (the the judges for each evening. He up in one of the debates, but 
are generally the same as the British or Americans. They go proposition) and the fourth said that the inspiration behind nothing public has been made 
to work, come home, eat, watch the telly, and go to bed. On floor(the opposition). Each stu­the debates was to make people out of it. Mike Millen, a member 
weekends they head to the country or to the beach. They dent on the winning floor will be more aware ofvarious topics and of the Ninth Floor team , was ac­
grow old, fall in love, get married, have kids and die. They treated to a formal dinner, pro­get them to talk about something tive for four years on a very suc­
don't know how Americans live and are curious, but they are vided that they have attended at not publicly discussed. The par­cessful debate team in high 
not dying to leave. But then, we feel the same way about least one evening. ticular debate topics, which deal school. He says that when the 
them. The first debate in the Grace with social, local, national, and audience leaves the debate, they 
Oh, so you think you know how Soviets (no, not Russians-ask your history professor) live, thanks to our wonderful freeHall tournament was held on international concerns, were appear to have gotten something press? What do they eat? What do they watch on television?
Tuesday, Oct. 28. The issue con­termed as · "fresh" and non­out of the discussion. However, 
Do they drink Coke or Pepsi or both? How long are the bread
cerned the recognition ofa Notre traditional issues. McKenna said the issues brought up· have not lines? The answers by the way, to grossly simplify, are: lotsDame!Saint Mary's Gays and Les­that he, in choosing the topics, been commented on publicly. 
of meat, old war movies, Pepsi, and about five minutes. Webians club on campus. The semi­are as clueless as they about "the other side".
finals were held Monday and NearSide Mark Weimholt 
We asked our lntourist guide once if she'd ever been to
Wednesday, Nov. I 0 and 12. 

America. She said no, it was very difficult to get permission.
The set-up of the debate com­"Why?" we asked, figuring that' her government would neverpetition is as follows: each night let her leave. "When relations are not so good between ourthere are two teams consisting countries," she replied, "it is difficult. Your country does notof four members each from two want tourists from the Soviet Union." Most of us assumeddifferent floors at Grace Hall. 

that the Soviet government would not want her to defect. ButOnly three of the four actually she could have defected there almost as easily as she could
speak; the last one is used as a in America. Maybe, just maybe, she was right? After all, oursustltute. Prior to the debate, the government wants the Soviet embassy staff cut in half. 

two floors are assigned the topic Perhaps I have had the wool pulled over my eyes and been and what side they must take. 

duped by the Soviet governmental machine called lntourist. 
The judge at each debate is a Maybe I have read too much Soviet propaganda, and too faculty member who is qualified much European anti-American rhetoric. I know if I were sittingin that particular topic. After the in North Dining Hall reading an article like this last semester,debate, he gives his decision, I would have laughed and looked for Doonesbury. But I'm based not on whether or not a 

not laughing now. 
team's opinion was "correct,"but It is a rather distressing feeling walking through a city of rather on how well the teams pre­

eight million people like Moscow, knowing that you could be 
sented their arguments. At the vaporized in less that I 0 minutes by American cruise missiles. 

conclusion of each evening, the Yes, American missiles, paid for with your tax dollars and 

audience is able to ask any ques­mine. It is disconcerting meeting people whom you could 

tions they have or add com­kill tomorrow --or even today. 

ments. 

One of the most peculiar Soviet customs we ran into was 
Joe McKenna, the assistant a wedding ceremony. After the actual wedding, the bride and 

rector at Grace Hall, said that the 

groom drive to a local cemetery or to the tomb of the Unkown debate series has been very suc­
Soldier in Leningrad. They walk to the center, throw flowers cessful. He explained that at the 
on a grave, and walk c;way. It is a stark reminder of death debates, there is a very high par­
and trauma in the midst of the joy of a wedding. ticipation level for a non-al­
These people are scared, more scared than Americans will coholic event on campus. "Ap­
ever be. 20 million people died in the Soviet Union during proximately," McKenna said,"the 
World War II, the Great Patriotic War as they like to call it. audience numbers around sev­
The Soviets are determined never to let th~t happen again. enty on any given night. There 
And we point loaded guns in their faces. Why? 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~-----------------------­




The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1986 -page 7 
Sports Briefs Clemens 'turns two' with AL MVP 
World Wrestling Federation tickets for tonight's ex­travaganza are still on sale at the ACC. The lower arena is sold out, but bleacher seats may be purchased for $9. -The Observer 
Guilty but Mentally Ill won the Law School football league championship Sunday night by knocking off the Killer B's, 20-12. Stan Barton threw three touchdown passes for the winners. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team still has one opening left in the Christmas ski trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone in­terested should call Joe (1190) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
lnterhall football equiptment return will be held tomor­row at Gate 9 of the stadium according to the following schedule: 6 p.m. -Stanford, 6:30 -Flanner, 7 -Sorin, 7:30 -Howard. Anyone who missed the last return can bring their equipment to Gate 9 between 6 and 8 p.m. -The Ob­server 
The ND rowing club (with the help of several special guests) erged 1250 miles in 50 hours over the weekend to raise funds for the team and for the Special Olympics. Members are reminded to turn in fundraiser catalogs and t-shirt money to Joe (322 Keenan) or Gretchen (105 Holy Cross) by 5:30p.m. tomorrow. Ergathon money will be collected next Tuesday. Also, anyone who ordered hooded sweatshirts or betting shirts may pick them up today from 1 to 3 p.m. and from 4:30 to 5 p.m. at room 227 Sorin. -The Observer 
Associated Press KATY, Tex. -Roger Clemens, who won 24 games in his first full season with the Boston Red Sox, capped a dream year yes­terday by becoming the first starting pitcher in 15 years to win the American League's Most Valuable Player Award. The 24-year-old right-hander captured 19 of 28 first place votes for 339 points in easily outdistancing Don Mattingly of the New York Yankees and Boston teammate Jim Rice in the balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Ivies 
continuedjrompage 12 
of the program. These teams have student-athletes playing the game, just as the Irish do. 
Teams with nearly-automatic red-shirting policies and NFL farm system men­talities have worn out their wel­come with Corrigan's crew. 
This future alliance with uni­versities that are more academically-oriented than 

"I thought I did have a pretty good chance even though I was a starting pitcher,'' said Clemens at his home in Katy. He conceded, though, that the news still was a bit of a shock. 
"I was going to come home tonight and see on TV if I finished second or third, but Debbie (his wife) wanted me to stay around the house." 
He learned of the award by telephone, and immediately called his wife, who was at an obstetrician's office. She is ex­pecting the couple's first child in five days. 
some of Notre Dame's current opponents should put the Irish out of the situation of becoming a Top-20 teams' punching bag. But it also takes some of the glitter off the schedule. 
Seeing SMU, Alabama, Miami, LSU, USC on your schedule can do a lot for en­thusiasm. Without those types of headliners, the Irish will have to generate almost all the interest for the games them­selves. 
The scheduling policy switch 
"I hope by winning this award I have put an exclama­tion mark in the minds of voters about starting pitchers winning it. If I was voting, I'd vote for my teammate Jim Rice. But I felt one of us should win it." 
The media descended upon the Clemens home for the second time in a week -he won the Cy Young award last Wed­nesday -and the scene was chaotic with utility crews working on the new home and a cleaning service using vac­cuums in the background. 
is quite surprising, but it seems like a reasonably good idea. As long as Corrigan doesn't go overboard in challenging the cream of academic institutions that are genuine cupcakes on the gridiron, the system should work out well. 
The Irish should stack up more victories, and possibly add another home game on their schedule. That's all fine, but if Notre Dame starts playing Ivy League schools, count me out. 

The ObMrver Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMrnr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classllleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
If you ptcked up a Bto. book m F ltne S.t  LOST: JR. FORMAL-SPORT COAT TAN  HELP!!  NEED  A  RIDE  TO  Please ahend Fr. Richard McCormick's  Vicky, Happy B1rthdayl! Today's Quofo  
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 2H7 ~1182 Wordprocess~ng · T yp1ng 272-8827 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE MRS COKER. 233· 7009  CALL  north dtntng hall Thur. and It'S not yours. It's MINE!! Please return 11 to 1110 Flen­ner or call Frank xl581. I can't afford an· other book and I need to study for the test Tuesday. Thome LOSTII MY KEYS. F1ve keys on a brass NO keycha1n. One of the keys ts blue Please call Stephante at 277-8241. Thanks! HEAR YE. HEAR YE. II you lost an HP. calculator before break, call1412 to tden­llfy a.s.a.p.  WOREEN T ON THE LAPEL PLEASE CALL 284-5054 IF FOUND. FOR RENT Available for &'11!17. Large 4 bdrm. home. Will accommodate 6. Completely fur­nished w1th washer and dryer. Call 234­9364. UNIVERSITY PARK APTS UNIVERSITY  YOUNGSTOWN.OH (OR VICINITY)FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES.IF YOU CAN HELP ME,PLEASE CALL CHRIS-284-5516 Need nde to Cleveland, Ohio for Thanks­giving. Call Debbie X2960. Need nde to Cincy 11/.!1 or 111.!2 Call Amy 3851 ....................................................... RIDE NEEDED to St. Louis for Thanks­giving break. Will share usual. PLEASE call Matt at x2314 or x2261. Thanks!  talk·discussion on "The Curran and Hun· thausen Affaires: The Learning Process of the Church" tonight at 7:00 p.m. 1n room 341 O'Shaughnessy. ................. Buying & selling men's and women's quality clothing. Consignment Showcase, 2214 Mishawaka Ave.. 237-4877. Need ride E..tlll I need a ride to PIHoburgh over Thanksgiving break. If you are going east on the turnpike and can offer me a ride, call Mary at 3726. Share usual expenses.  of 1he Day was chosen specifically for you because each and every day you live and spread It's message so well. Love, Your Friend. Tom Mary Jean. Sorry about your grandmother. Love you, and !hanks for the hugs. Your bowling partner (as in 'Life IS A. .') G .  
typ1ng 277-9649 MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR Thursday. Nov 20. 1986 9amto4pm Computing Center Lobby TO THE OIRL WHO FOUND A BOU· QUET OF WHITE ROSES WITH RED TIPS ON THE PARKING LOT OF SAINT MARY'S MADELEVA --HEW TO­GETHER WITH A LITTLE IRON DOG. KEEP THE ROSES' BUT I DO NEED THE PUPPY BACK GREAT (and th1s cannot be emphasiZed enough) SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 289 · 7219 Reward (more rosas?) WORDPROCESSING 277-8131  lost: Fur hat. russtan style on Thursday Nov 13 tn Ltbrary Audt10rtUrT! or Csc butld· tng between 7 and 9 pm.I got tt from Aussta and wtll never go back agatn. Call 277-2262. Help' I lost my keys on Nov. t4,1986 somewhere on campus between the north d1nmg hall and the architecture bldg. I really need my keys to get 1nto my apartment. There are approximately 1· keys on thts typical round, brown, wooden key chatn. You know, the one w1th the NO insignta on it. II found, please cell X272-8639. I'd really appre­ctate it LOST Season basketball tickets Friday ntght at Theodore·s. Sectton 114, Row 6, Seat 23. Name IS s1gned on booklet. If you have them. call X4645 for reward. LOST -purple and white stnped PURSE w1th 35 mm CAMERA Please contact Rose at 272-3970.  PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates for spring. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com­NEED ride for 2 fa COLUMBUS for pletely furn1shed except for your room! Turkey day. Can leave Tue a«er 4. C ell CALL AL or KEVIN at 277-8938. 2914 Available for 11MI7&611.-87 DEsPERATELY NEED FiioEi· ro 4BR.Furnlshed.Safe,Great Location. SPFLD. ILL OVER THANKS. IF TAKING Rent Nego11able, You pay utilities, Will 1-55 TO ST. LOUIS THAT WOULD acommodate 5. Call Geoff 288·7276 WORK WILL SHARE EXPENSES. ........ . ... ............... ............. ............ . CALL LE ANN 284-5494. 3 OR 4-BDRM. NEWLY DECORATED, AVAILABLE NOW FOR 2ND SEMES­WANT·eo·:..2..Aioes··;:a··ex·,r··4··aHio TER 3·5 STUDENTS, $100 PER STU­TRNPK FOR T-OAY BREAK. CALL DENT PLUS UTILITIES. MONITORED !_ERA 28~:~()~7 SECURITY SYSTEM. NEAR PORTAGE FUN RIDERS needed to CANTON, AK­& ANGELA. 234-6686. RON. CLEVE, for T-glvingl Oates flexible. Leave message at X4455.I WANTED I .--····---····-········---.·····--· WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY I FOR SALE PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR L..-----------J GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO WEEKS! FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME 13 in. RCA color television. less than 1  SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$. Present this ad and receive an additional 10% OFF of any used book In store! LARGE selection of CliM.1onarch Notes. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 606 Howard St.. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 Days s week. 1G-530 Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1 am; Sunday 4pm-10pm JUNIORS'88' JUNIORS'88' JUNIORS'88' IT'S THIRD THURSDAY BOWLING AT BEACON BOWLIII THIS THURSDAY, NOV. 20, 9:30 -BOWL AT BEACONIII JUNIORS'68' JUNIORS'86' JUNIORS'88' ·····················  SAB presents: CHICAGO TRIP Sat. Nov. 22 EATIDANCEIPLAYIWATCH LSU GAMEII Sign-ups In SAB office Leave main Circle 11 am ··Only $7.00 II ........... .. ...... SAB presents: CAMPUS BAND JAM Ill Friday, Nov. 21 theodore's 6pm -2am FREEEEEIIII TOGATOGATOGATOGATOGATOGA PARTY AT THEODORE'S SATURDAY NOVEMBER 22 8:00PM TO 3:00AM PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT UNITED WAY ADMISSION $ 1.00 WIN A TRIP FOR TWO TO FT. LAUDERDALE!Ill Since from the heart It all is made And from beyond d1amond or spade Here then, the frio which has been forbade: I LOVE THEE  
Profeaa10nal word processtng services ol term papers. resumes. mailings, etc. Center Services Company. conveniently located 1n downtown Soulh Bend.  LOST: Women's Gold Seiko Quartz Watch--Somewhere between stadium and Keenan. High sent. value. If found please call 3405  HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151 Waitresses. Waiters needed at Knol­ yr. old. Cell Darren X1843. FUTONS: 100%cotton sleep mattresses. hardwood convertible frames and acces­sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 Soufh  LA SOIREE CREPE VIENTIIIII TOUS CEUX QUI VEULENT PARTICIPER ET NOUS AIDER SONT PRIES DE CON­TACTER EILEEN A 288·1941.  Dear Krls Krlngle-Dude ..... Ya done gone and sprung a leak! Love. Kev,Laur,&Col  
Monday-Fnday. 8 am -5 p.m.. 282­8550 THOMAS MORE SOCIETY WILL HAVE A LECTURE COMMITTEE MEETING WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 19 at 7pm CSC IF HAVE IDEAS FOR NEXT SE­MESTER'S LECTURE SERIES OR IN­TERESTED IN COORDINATING LEC­TURES. PLEASE ATIEND. PITI CLUB BUS S!GNUPS Thursday. Nov 20 Lafortune Lobby-Any qe&flons call Mike x3402 or Rob x1612 Serg1o Ramirez 18 com1ng EXPO ROMA '66 un111 Thurs. at 1he Ark1e Bldg LOST/FOUND  LOST· Be1ge coat et Sen1or Bar--Helpll Call Jim Callaghan X3586. HELP! llost my ID, key, dextex and my life 11 I don't gel them back. It was Fnday n1ght somewhere between 3rd floor PW and Bridget's. I had it all in a little red plastic case. Please help me--Beth Loh­muller at X 1564. .......................... Lost: A set of dorm keys and some bas­ketball tickets somewhere between Bridget's and Keenan. Please call Fred at 3402 with Info. LOST Saturday, 11 -15. at Theodore's a Notre Dame Jacket With the name in the 1ns1de nght front. If you have if please g1ve me a call at 1759 ask for Candy. HELP! I LOST MY DRIVER'S LICENSE. I HOPE NO ONE THINKS THEY CAN GET AWAY WITH USING IT (I'M 21) IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE RETURN IT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. IT'S AN IOWA LICENSE-PROBABLY LOST AT SMC. CALL 284-5230 IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN!! LOST-a dark grey herringbone tweed  lwood Country Club. No experience nec­essary. Knollwood Counfry Club, 16633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln.. 277-1541. ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physician'(>sychologlst) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a child's needs and can prov1de a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie end Alan collect (212)-724-7942. MIAMI'S WHERE I'D RATHER BEl Miami, Ohio, thai Is. Yeaaaah. That's the llckell And you can be my ticket fo gelling there on Fri.. Nov. 21. If you need a rider to Mtami, call 3674 and ask for the liar, uh. the Popel Yeaaah. that's it .. Aide and\:Jr riders NEEDED Roch N.Y. Leave adler 12 p.m. Mon. 24 Call Dave X1683 ...................................................... Earn $480 weekly, $60 per hundred en­velopes sluffed. Guaranteed. Homeworkers needed for company proj­ect stuffing envelopes and assembling materials. Send stamped self-addressed envelope to JBK Mailcompany, P.O. Box 25·66, Castaic, CA 91310.  Michigan St. 233-8176. MUST SELL-ticket to San Francisco tor turkey day. Plane leaves South Bend Wed, returns Sun. Call Tim at 2053. A;;;;i~·;;;~~i~~~~i, -i2a·K' ~p;;~;;;;;·i~·512 K. plus exfernal drive; $1700. Call evenings. 234-6747. TIRED OF THE SHUTTLE? NEED TRANSPO FOR BREAKS AND WINTER MONTHS? FOR SALE: 1981 Chevette Great ConditioM.ow Price AM-FM Cas­sette CALL ANNE 289·6239 FOR DETAILS TICKETS I NEED 4 LSU TIX CALL JIM AT 277­4569  VENEZ TOUS A LA SOIREE CREPE CE VENDREDI DE 19h a 21 :30h CHEZ LE CSC. QUESTIONS? CONTACTEZ EILEEN a 288-1941. Need to get to New Jersey for Thanks­giving? Selling plane ticket from South Bend to Newark lor face value. Call Terry at 1801 Attention Observer Production De­partment Last meeting of the semester -today at 7:00. Please attend. . . .....' ..... . . .. .' ' . . ..' . . ..' . . . .. . . . ... . . . . . .' WISCONSIN CLUB BUS SION-UPS Tues..Wedn. 6-6:30 Thanksgvng bus bottom of LaFortune brown and natural blue a sparkling spirit beaming w~h lite subtle gestures thaf sef me alight brown and natural blue I Love You TWO PEOPLE NEED RIDE TO  To Steve & Jim-Get psyched for a great weekend! Love Laurie & Colleen Hey Joe Green! You're 181 Happy Birthday! Love your Big Sis, Sherry HAPPY B·DAY RAWSON! Too bad you didnt wan1 anyone to know·thlnk of ALL the girls who wouldve wanted to "get naked" with you. Have a fun day anyway­doni be too uptight-and good tuck on lhasa tests. -That Connecticut Chick Field Hockey SYT ?? Men of ND··-wlll you survive when we "HIT YOU W!Tti OUR BEST SHOT"???? Feild Hockey SYT--coming soon FEILD HOCKEY JUNIORS--LET THE BALLOONS FLY HfGHGET PSYCHED FOR A NITE OF FUN??? FH LEGEND LIVES ON ··--JO.GET BETTER OR MORE SHOTS FOR YOUHAHA  
LOST· GOLD SEIKO LADIES WATCH  spM coat at the SMC Junior Class For·  ANYWHERE ALONG INTERSTATE 90  
WED.  MORNING. NOV.12 BETWEEN  mal on Friday, Nov. 14. It has a label  GOVERNESSHOUSEKEEPER  FROM  CLEVELAND  TO  BUFFALO.  
B2 AND HAGGAR PLEASE. IF FOUND, CONTACT KERRY HAVERKAMP 277­81591111WOULDREALLY APPRECIATE  w1fh "Old Crue" on the inside lining and the pockets are sfill sewn shut. Please refurn-reward offered. Call Mike at 283­ After school management and transport of 2 children, 12 & 15, weekly housecleamng and occasional errands.  PERSONALS  WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. ....................................  TOGATOGATOGATOGATOGATOGA TOGA PARTY AT THEODORE'S FOR UNITED WAY SATURDAY. NOVEM·  
IT  3444.  Car essential. M-Th 2-5, Fri. 12·5. Can  HOW 'BOUT LUNCH -ALA MEXICO???  BER 22 8:00PM TO 3:00AM WIN A TRIP  
continue Into full lime summer job. Ref­ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  FOR  TWO  TO  FT.  LAUDERDALE  
LOST· Light grey heavy wool winter coat Lost at Theodore's on last Sat. night be­ PLEASE HELP ME FIND MARQUETTE ID & KEYS, SMC ID & KEYS, GLOVES,  erences req'd. $3.5CYhr. or more depend­tng on experience. Call evenings or  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE CLASS OF 89 TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA TOGA  
tween 2-3 AM--It's gett1ng cold and I  SCARF & JEAN JACKET TAKEN FROM  weekends 288·2449.  TOGA  
really need It back. If you picked it up accidentally. call Oary at x 1153  THEODORES ON SAT. NIGHT. PLEASE CONTACT SHANNON AT 284­ NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE NOV21  ADOPTION· We're a happily married couple (physician'(>sychologist) who  WHEN YOU WANT TO GET A LITTLE MEXICANII!!  
4061.  CALL PAM OR KRIS 284-5482  deeply wish fa adop1 a newborn. We'd  Join us at the esc for lunch  
LOST·ADD-A·BEAD  NECKLACE.  be sensitive to e child's needs and can  Tomorrow, Nov.20  "BODAS DE SANGRE"·"BLOOD WED­ 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN WALSH AND  LOST: LONG BLACK DRESS COAT OF  HELP,I NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON THE  prov1de a warm loving home where a  11:30-1:30  DINGS'  WEDNESDAY.  NOV  19.  
SO.  DININO  HALL  OR  IN  DINING  GREAT VALUE AT DILLON FORMAL.  WEEKEND  OF  NOVEMBER  21-23.  child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal.  TO BENEFIT LA CASA DE AMISTAD  9:00PM  CARROLL  AUDITORIUM  
HALLPLEASE CALL MAUREEN M. AT  PLEASE  RETURN  REWARD.  CALL  PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 284-5449.  Confldenhal. Call Ellie and Alan collect  HASTA LA VISTAIIIIIII!II  MADELEVA,  SMC  SPONSORED  BY  
2612  THANKS  LISA 284-4329.  WILL PAY BIG $$$1  (;!12) 724-7942.  SMC SPANISH CLUB.  

-~---­
November 19, 1986 The Observe_r page 8 
Sports Wednesday 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today 

BostonVolleyball at Eastern Michigan Philadelphia Washington
Wrestling vs. AIR FORCE 

New YorkWWF wrestling at the ACC New Jersey 
Thursday Atlanta Milwaukee
No sports scheduled 
Chicago Indiana Detroit
Friday 
Cleveland 

Men's basketball vs. WEST­ERN KENTUCKY Hockey at St. Thomas (Minn.) Volleyball vs. NORTHERN IL­LINOIS 
Houston Utah Dallas
Saturday 
Denver Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w  L  
6  2  
6  4  
3  6  
3  7  
2  7  

Central Division 7 1 7 4 5 3 6 4 3 5 3 6 
Western Conference 
Midwest Division w L 5 3 5 3 5 5 5 5 

Football at LSU Sacramento 3 6 
San Anton1o 3 6

Hockey at St. Thomas (Minn.) 
Pacific Division

Volleyball at Purdue L.A. Lakers 6 1 Wrestling at St. Louis Seattle 5 4 
Portland

Men's swimming at Ferris 4 5 5 5 
Phoenix State Golden State 4 5 
L.A. Clippers

SMC basketball at St. Francis 3 7 Invitational 
Last Night's Results L.A. Lakers 114, Dallas 110Sunday Milwaukee 111, Golden State 85 Portland 115, Houston 111 OT
SMC basketball at St. Francis 
Denver125, New Jersey 112Invitational Indiana 98, L.A. Clippers 93 Seattle 119, Sacramento 105 
Monday 
Tonight's Games
No sports scheduled 
Atlanta at Boston New York at Philadelphia Detroit at Washington

Tuesday Golden State at Cleveland 
L.A. Lakers at San Antonia

SMC basketball at Hope Col-
New Jersey at Phoenix
lege 
Irish Volleyball 
Through Sunday 
Pet.  GB  
~750  
.600  1  
.333  3.5  
.300  4  
.222  4.5  
.875  
.636  1.5  
.625  2  
600  2  
.375  4  
333  4.5  
Pet.  GB  
.625  
.625  
.500  
.500  1  
.333  2.5  
.333  2.5  
.857  
.556  2  
.500  2.5  
.444  3  
.444  3  
.300  4.5  

NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East  
w  L  T  Pet.  
N.Y. Giants  9  '2  0  .BIB  
Washington  9  2  0  .818  
Dallas  7  4  0  .636  
Philadelphia  3  8  0  .273  
St. Louis  2  9  0  .182  
Central  
Chicago  9  2  0  .818  
Minnesota  6  5  0  .545  
Detroit  4  7  0  .364  
Green Bay  2  9  0  .182  
Tampa Bay  2  9  0  .182  
West  
L.A. Rams  7  4  0  .636  
San Francisco  6  4  1  .591  
New Orleans  6  5  0  .545  
Atlanta  5  5  1  .500  
AMERICAN CONFER ENCE  
East  
w  L  T  Pet.  
N.Y. Jets  10  1  0  .909  
New England  8  3  0  .727  
Miami  5  6  0  .455  
Buffalo  3  8  0  .273  
Indianapolis  0  11  0  .000  
Central  
Cincinnati  7  4  0  .636  
Cleveland  7  4  0  .636  
Pittsburgh  4  7  0  .364  
Houston  2  9  0  .182  
West  
Denver  9  2  0  .818  
Kansas City  7  4  0  .636  
L.A. Ra1ders  7  4  0  .636  
Seattle  5  6  0  .455  
San Diego  2  9  0  .182  

Tomorrow's Game 
L.A. Aalders at San Diego 
Sunday's Games Buffalo at New England Denver at N.Y. Giants DetrOit at Tampa Bay Green Bay at Chicago Indianapolis at Houston Minnesota at Cincinnati Pittsburgh at Cleveland Dallas at Washington Atlanta at San Francisco Kansas City at St. Louis New Orleans at L.A. Rams Philadelphia at Seattle 
Monday's Game 
N.Y. Jets at Miami 

PF PA 225 158 242 196 277 189 156 209 140 263 
239 130 258 190 163 202 149 272 171 300 
192 180 260 178 197 167 208 198 
PF PA 303 203 304 181 276 290 213 251 127 291 
271 278 239 232 175 221 194 255 
271 172 249 240 218 195 199 219 219 275 
PLAYER GP KILLS ERS AT PCT ACES SRVS DIGS BLKS ASTS Mary Kay Waller 101 275 57 564 .386 12 39 94 45 105 Gretchen Kraus 29 47 11 96 .367 1 6 22 6 8 Karen Sapp 42 57 16 154 .266 18 69 58 5 14 Zanette Bennett 106 347 106 907 .266 4 29 157 Z7 66 Kathy Baker 34 46 9 140 .264 2 15 50 5 5 Maureen Shea 118 232 84 592 .250 13 52 187 48 89 
::~fi':
Whitney Shewman 82 144 32 454 .247 12 40 173 3 16 Kathy Cunningham 99 254 88 733 .226 9 46 260 7 48 Kathleen Morin 98 97 31 305 .217 509 1379 141 12 49 Taryn Collins 90 71 24 243 .193 684 1652 198 6 50 Jill Suglich 86 57 23 222 •153 53 140 172 3 24 Mollie Merchant 58 4 2 16 .125 1 5 71 1 3 
NOTRE DAME 125 1631 483 4428 .259 1318 3472 1583 168 477 OPPONENTS 125 1377 716 4759 .139 1140 3826 1433 86 217 
'$! 


AP Photo 
not finish the race. The 1986 Indianapolis 500 winner will be the CART champion on the basis of points. 
-·::~,.. 


Michael Andretti, his closest competitor, did 
Sports Lists 

-


Southern California 39 Washington '29 
Alabama U.C.L.A. Ohio State Nebraska 

AP Top 20 
Football 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll, with f1rst~place votes 1n paren· theses. thts season's records and total potnts. Potnts based on 20-19-1 8-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Miami 10-0-0 1.196 2. Penn State (3) 10·0·0 1.119 3. Oklahoma 9-1-0 1.083 4. Arizona St. (1) 9-0-1 1.025 5. Nebraska 9+0 964 6. Michigan 9·1·0 856 7. Oh10 State 9·2-0 642 8 LSU 7-2-0 730 9. Alabama 9·2·0 707 
10. So. California 7-2-0 641 11. Arkansas 8-2-0 546 12. Washington 7-2-1 472 13. Texas A&M 7·2·0 455 14. Arizona 7-2·0 432 15. Auburn 8·2·0 405 16. Stanford 7·2·0 321 17. Baylor 7-3·0 232 t8. UCLA 6-3-1 t60 19. Clemson 7·2-1 156 20. Georgia 7-3·0 78 
Others receiving votes: Iowa 47, Florida St. 37, N. Carolina State 37, Virginia Tech 18, San Jose State 14, Boston College 8, Minnesota 5, Maryland 3, North Carolina 3, Fresno State 2, M1am1 (Oh1o) 1. Notre Dame 1, Texas 1. 

WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division 
w L T GF Philadelphia 12 4 1 73 Pittsburgh 11 6 2 76 N.Y. Islanders 10 7 1 71 New Jersey 7 2 69
g 
Washington 7 10 3 65 N.Y. Rangers 5 9 4 65 
Adams Division Montreal 10 5 3 69 Quebec 8 8 4 77 Hartford 7 5 3 54 Boston 7 9 2 60 Buffalo 4 11 2 58 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvtslon 
w L T GF Winnipeg 12 6 1 75 Edmonton 11 8 1 87 Calgary 10 9 0 63 Los Angeles 7 11 1 74 Vancouver 5 12 2 55 
Norris Division Toronto 9 5 3 61 St. Louis 5 4 54 Detroit 9 1 47 Mtnnesota 10 2 63 
Ch1cago 4 11 4 60 
Last Night's Results NY. Islanders 4. Quebec 3 Los Angeles 6, Washmgton 5 St. Louis 4, Minnesota 3 Winnepeg 3. Pittsburgh 1 Vancouver 5, Calgary 0 
Tonight's Games Boston at Buffalo Montreal at Hartford New Jersey at Detroit Philadelphia at Toronto Los Angeles at Ch1cago Mmnesota at St. LoUis 
GA Pts. 41 25 64 24 55 21 80 20 82 17 75 14 
61 23 68 20 56 t7 64 16 61 10 
GA Pts 59 25 74 23 70 20 84 15 70 12 
51 21 51 18 56 15 71 12 82 12 
28 27 23 
22 
Basketball 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams tn The Assoctated Press poll. w1th ftrst·ptace votes tn paren­theses. last season·s records and total potnts. Potnts based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are itahctzed 
1 North Carolina (35) 28-6 1.215 2 Lou1Sv1lle (22) 32-7 1.196 3 Indiana (2) 2t-8 956 4 Purdue (2) 22·10 935 5 Nev ·Las Vegas (21 33-5 901 6. Georg1a Tech (1) 27·7 770 7. Oklahoma 26-9 684 8 Kansas 35-4 645 9 Navy 30-5 560 10 Iowa 20-12 531 11 Kentucky 32-4 500 12 Auburn 22-11 498 13 Alabama 24·9 451 14 lllono1s 22-10 386 15. Syracuse 26-6 383 16 P1ttsburgh 15-14 382 
17. N. Carolina State 21-13 322 18. Georgetown 24-8 321 19. Anzona 23-9 299 20. Cleveland State 29-4 178 
Others receiving votes· Western Kentucky 176. Notre Dame 159, UCLA 156. Cahforn1a 77. Tulsa 68, DePaul64. Wyom1ng 42. St. John's 41. M1ch1gan 
33. Temple 31. Clemson 26. Texas Chnst1an 22. So. Miss1ss1pp1 18. Duke 12. LSU 12. Virg1n1a 12. Texas·EI Paso 11. M1am1, Fla. 10. Northeastern 10 . Wash1ngton 10. 
lnterhall Football 
Men's Championship Stanford 19, Flanner 0 
lnterhall Soccer 
Finals -Sunday 
O.C. Hoobers 2, Flanner F.C. 0 
Finals -Monday 
O.C. Hoobers 1, Flanner F.C. 0 
MISL 
Eastern Division 

w L Pet. GB Baltimore 2 0 1.000 Dallas 2 0 1.000 
Chicago 0 .0 1.5 Cleveland 0 0 t.5 Minnesota 0 1 .0 1.5 New York 0 2 .0 2 
Western Division Los Angeles 1 0 1.000 San D1ego t 0 1.000 Wichita 1 0 1.000 Kansas City .500 .5 
Tacoma 1 .500 .5 St. louis 2 0 1.5 
Last Night's Results San Diego at St. LOUIS Tonight's Game Cleveland at Mtnnesota 

Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yarns, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
~219 Grape Road 277-6403 
THE THOMAS ).

'\VlHIIE-C:ENTER. PRESENTS A LECTURE BY 
~EED ~IFT IDEAS?

WFORLAWAND Carl A. Anderson 
THE SNITE MUSEUM SHOP Special oss1stont to the Pres1dent 
GOVERNMENT 
has the answer 

Director of the Domestic Division 
.('J)~ 
·Engagement Calendars

of the Office of Public Liaison 
..;::J~) ·Pottery 
--~·-, .,_. ·T-Shirts ~-·Christmas ca"ds 

The White House 
1

:~ ·open Mon.-Sat. 1~:00-4:00 Su~. 1:00-4:00
on "The Aftermath of the Reversal of Roe V. Wade" 
Thursdav. Nov. 20 at Noon Room 101 -The Low School 
The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1986-page 9 
'Aggressive' Bolcar aids Irish defense, special teams 
Hy MIKE CHMIEL Sports Writer 
Ned Bolcar has played linebacker on the defense, ful­lback on the offense and cap­tain on the special teams this year for the Irish. He may epitomize the versatile football player. 
Bolcar's future, however, rests behind the defensive line as an inside linebacker. 
"I'd like to play inside linebacker," Bolcar says. "My personality is on defense. I like to hit. I'm aggressive. I can get to the ball. I am more of a de­fensive player. 
For the Irish, new players will key the rebuilding as Lou Holtz and his system complete the transition to lead the Irish. While the young players on this year's roster will move into fill vacancies generated by graduating seniors next year, many are either already hel­ping the Irish or hoping to achieve greater responsibili­ties as the season concludes. 
Playing behind senior cap­tain Mike Kovaleski, Bolcar may not see much playing time this year. According to Irish de­fensive coordinator and inside linebacker coach Foge Fazio, however, Bolcar's aggressive­ness and positive attitude augur well for the future. 
"Ned is an energetic compet­itor," says Fazio. "He does everything a hundred miles an hour.... Ned has a lot of strong points about him. He's very agressive, he hits hard, he plays with a lot of emotion, he has real good quickness and real good speed." 
While Bolcar must wait for a starting assignment to arise, Bolcar contributes his leader­ship ability to the Irish on a part-time basis as a back-up at inside linebacker and on a full­time basis as the special teams captain. Following a strong ef­fort on the punt teams, Bolcar achieved a role on the kickoff teams and was subsequently delegated as a captain by Holtz. 
"To me, (to be named as a captain l is an honor," the soph­omore says. "All of the people on the special teams have the desire to play, and we play hard. 
"We've done a pretty good job of improving," Bolcar con­tinues. "Even though our goal is to be perfect, you can't ex­pect everyone to be perfect. You have to criticize (the spe­cial teams) when they're not doing well, because through criticism, we'll keep trying to improve and keep trying to get better. And someday, no one will be able to criticize us. 
"At times, our special teams have faltered -they haven't played up to the level that you 

Ned Bolcar 
have to in order to win a na­tional championship. I don't think our special teams have lost too many games because there's an offense and a defense involved also." 
While Bolcar's natural posi­tion is at inside linebacker, he is capable of playing at ful­lback. Following a rough out­ing against Michigan State, the Irish moved Bolcar to a reserve 

-----------------------, !Bd?fLlcNtD ~~
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 

LISA DUNN 

role at fullback. He played on the offensive side until the Air Force game. 
"If I'm called to play another position, like fullback, I'm ca­pable of doing that, but that's not my natural position," Bol­car says. "Inside linebacker is a key position because you'reinvolved in every phase of the defensive game pass coverage, sweeps, up the middle runs -you name it and you're involved." 
In high school, Bolcar earned four letters in football while playing both ways as a fullback and inside linebacker. Bolcar also earned four letters as a basketball forward and three letters as a baseball centerfielder. As a high school linebacker, Bolcar totaled 181 solo tackles and 30 drops for a loss. He also rushed for over 470 yards and scored six touch­downs. 
"I'm three or four inches to short to play basketball, but I still may go back to play baseball someday," Bolcar says. "I like the competition and the team concept in foot­ball." 
As a top academic and ath­letic prospect, Bolcar chose to attend Notre Dame primarily because the Irish maintain a 
{:\.1~}-o,~\ p{g-~ ~ an.b Jtamilu fRe.!ltaurnnt 
Bruno's now delivers FREE to ND and SMC campuses. 
n ()0 all toppings 61::1 • 
~'":)· '-"SJ.
\1-'~-1) Follow 23 South to: <t~.s' 
e \> 2610 Prairie Ave. .s'q{j 
~~~ 288~Dio Sqg~ ...."-....---------------------~~ 


THE IMPACT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ON SOCIETY 
A Series of Lecturea by Dlatlngulahed VIsiting Scholars to Inaugurate the PROGRAM IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND VALUES at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MARK SIEGLER, M.D. 
Profeuor of Medicine, and, Director of the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics University of Chicago 
"DEATH WITH DIGNITY? 
THE IMPACT OF HIGH TECHNOLOGY ON CLINICAL MEDICINE" 7:30P.M. Thursday, November 20, 1986 Mem011al Library Auditorium 
Thla aerta• Ia ma ponlble bV • ....-ou• grant from tha 
O.T.E. Foundllllon. P.u.t .upport alao w• prvvldad bV the National EncloWII*It for tha Humenltlae. 
rich tradition in football and the potential to rise to the top soon. 
"I always thought highly of Notre Dame," Bolcar says. "I came to Notre Dame to be part of a winning football program. I felt that if there was any place in this country that would be exciting to be a winner at, it would be Notre Dame. 
"When Notre Dame is a win­ner, and we will be very soon, everybody in the country will care. Notre Dame has a follow­ing everywhere, and I want to be a part of that -the Notre Dame winning tradition com­ing back." 
Moving to the collegiate ranks, Bolcar recognizes greater diligence and more dis­appointments as different from the high school ranks. 
"The biggest change ... the number of hours you put into both football and academics," Bolcar says. "Also ... I found more disappointment. With over 130 players on a team, not everyone is happy. The hardest about college football is the dis­appointment of friends and teammates. You have a lot of talented people vying for a few spots." 
Bolcar also believes that dis­
appointment characterizes the 
attitude among the Irish this 
season. However, he believes 
that once the Irish settle in un­
der their new head coach, they 
will achieve confidence and 
success. 
''Disappointment . . . the whole season has been 'so close,' but it's coming to the point where you can't say that anymore," Bolcar says. "For the seniors, I feel bad. They're on their way out. They deserve a lot of respect for what they've done for the last four years ­the turmoils and how they've hung in there. For the younger guys, we need to prepare for next year and not let a similar thing happen. 
"The transition in coaches is 
still in progress ... we're still 
not settled in. The players and 
the coaches, however, are 
gaining confidence." 
Flutie happy if he plays 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Doug Flutie is not exactly treading through a mine field, but he prefers to step gingerly as a backup quarterback with the Chicago Bears. 
"I'm comfortable and relaxed," said the 1984 Heis­man Trophy winner from Bos­ton College. "But I won't feel like I belong until I get out on the field." 
The Bears acquired Flutie from the Los Angeles Rams for a sixth-round draft choice last month. 

The Observer 

Irish wrestling faces Air Force as home season begins tonight at the Pit 
Nine returners to spur SMC basketball team 
By MARISA KOSLA Sports writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity basketball team, whose season begins next week, has set its goals. Besides trying to improve on last year's 8-13 record, the Belles hope to win tournaments and qualify for districts by relying on their strengths. 
"This is the strongest team I've seen in my three years at Saint Mary's," said Head Coach Marvin Wood. 
The team's strength lies in its nine returning players. Senior guard Kim Pantelleris will remain in the backcourt, and juniors Rachel Bir, Step­hanie Duke and Donna Wolf will be alternating at the foward position. Junior Tammye Radke will join Pan­telleris at the guard position. 
Sophomores Laura Danch, Jennifer Harte, Cathy Mansfield and Lisa McGrath are looking foward to a rewarding season. 
"We hope to have a winning team," said Wood. 
With the experience of re­turning players and the en­ergy of new team members, the Belles' chances look promising. 
Freshmen on the squad in­clude Amy Baranko, Mary Elaine Cassidy, Anne Gallag­her, Susan Leto and Julie Radke. 
The Belles have already taken steps to capture a win­ning season. By beginning an early conditioning program of running and weight training, the team has a head start on the competition. 
"Conditioning has been a big plus," said Wood. "Besides becoming a stronger team, we are definitely a quicker team." 
Aside from the advantages of being fit, the Belles hope height will work in their fa­vor. 
"Defensively, we should get more rebounds, while offen­sively we should get the second shot," said Wood. 
Along with size, skills will play a key role in the 1986 season. 

"We are hoping to see ag­gressive rebounding and con­sistant shooting from the wing-post position," ex­plained Wood." Also, we have players with good defensive skills. But it's not going to be easy." 
This year's competition will be tough. The Belles face St. Joseph's College and St. Francis College. 
"Women's basketball is hard to predict. Everyone im­proves every year," said Wood. 
Last week the Belles played a scrimmage against Lake Michigan College. The team used the game as a learning experience. "All fourteen players got into the game, and they all showed great potential," said Wood. 
The Saint Mary's varsity basketball team offically begins their season Novem­ber 22-23 by playing St. Francis' invitational in Joliet, Illinois. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Following a second-place finish in the nine-team Mic­higan State Invitational, an injury-riddled wrestling team opens its home season against Air Force tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
"Traditionally, Air Force has a pretty good program. We're kind of in the dark right now because they're so far away and we don't com­pete with any of the teams they play. There'snowaywe can prepare specifically for them," said Head Coach Fran McCann. "I don't think they'll be that physical, but they'll be extremely well conditioned." 
The Irish will be without sophomore 126-pound starter Dave Carlin and freshman 190-pound starter Dan Mitchell, both of whom suffered injuries at Mic­higan State. Seniors Greg Fleming and Dave Helmer will take over their respec­tive positions tonight. 

While Carlin and Mitchell 
Fran McCann 
are the only ones missing tonight's action, several other Irish wrestlers are also bothered by injuries. 
"I've been coaching about 20 years and this is the worst I've seen it. It's like an epidemic," said McCann. 
"We're hoping to get the in­juries out of the way by Christmas, because the meat of our schedule is after then." 
McCanq is hoping that an enthusiastic home crowd can compensate for the in­juries and inexperience cur­rently plaguing the Irish. 
"We like it at the Pit be­cause it has a close-in atmo­sphere, and we need some fans to generate enthusiasm in that atmosphere." 
Starting for Notre Dame tonight will be 118-pound freshman Andy Raden­baugh, Fleming, 134-pound Jerry Durso, 142-pound soph­omore Pat Boyd, 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski, 158­pound sophomore Dan Car­rigan, 167-pound senior Tom Ryan, 177-pound sophomore Chris Geneser, and Helmer. 
"Their attitude's really 
good,  and  the  kids  are  
working  hard,"  said  
McCann.  

Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
Miami of Ohio, Minnesota and Southwest Missouri State are all also in the running and are ranked ahead of the Irish in the recent NCAA Midwest poll. 
Notre Dame has faced Eas­tern Michigan only once before, in a home match last season. The Irish struggled to a come-from-behind, 4-15, 15­12, 15-6, 1-15, 15-4 victory. This Notre Dame team, however, has come a long way since then, as is evident by its im­pressive statistics. 
"We're surprised at the num­ber of matches we have won, but not that we're winning," said Assistant Coach Patty Hagemeyer, a 1980 graduate of the University of Minnesota. Hagemayer was inducted into Minnesota's Hall of Fame this October for her stellar volley­ball career with the Golden Gophers. 
The Irish have been led this season by the impressive play of sohomore Mary Kay Waller, who currently is ninth in the nation in kill percentage (.386) and blocks per game (1.6). 


Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
Joint Degree Options and Cross-Registration Opportunities with Other Schools 
Meet with a Kennedy School Representative 
DATE: Thursday, November 20 
TIME: 10:00 & 11:00 groups 
LOCATION: Please contact your Career Placement Office for this information. 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! 

CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
We have clients seeking qualified individuals with language and area expertise regarding foreign markets. Part-time and full-time assignments avaiable. Foreign nationals with advance degrees from american universities needed as visa restrictions will not effect certain projects. Expertise in technical, economic, or scientific fields is required. 
Send resume, Including telephone number to: 
Swenson, Crawford &Paine Executive Search Division P.O. BoxA-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 

------~------------~---------------­

'JI['~.cll~~--------------------------------........................w
..ed•n•e•sd•a•y•'•N•ov•e•m•b•e•r•19•'•1•98•6•-•p•a•g•e..11 Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

IT':> W€/JNePR(, AAIP OH WGI.L, I M16HT AS WHt' {)()I At.WAI'S FEEL.
MEANWHILE, Ar AIK!rHEK.. 

I STILL IJOAI'r HAVE THE" REIICIIES OFPt/I.ACI 
UNIVEJ?S!Tt', FIIR FNOM 
A PIIW ~ 11/C"816 
rO~HAL 111/S W{!E'I:8/Pf
MARVIN'S EWJTIIER €NJT1fS 
THE Pfl/1/llCf£ OFUV/#6 WAto-EP~H... 
\ 

Campus 
12:10 -1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
I: 15 -2:30 p.m.: Economics Dept. Labor Workshop, "Strikes and Economic The­ory," by Ruth Bandzak, ND Economics graduate student, Discussant: Suzanne Konzlemann, ND Economics graduate student. Room 131 Decio 
3:30: Aerospace and Mechanical Engi­neering Seminar, "Vortex Simulation of Turbelent Reaction Flow," by Ahmed F. Ghoniem, MIT, 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:00&6:30p.m.: Presentation, "Resumes 
-Resumes-How to Write One", by Ms. Joan 
Mcintosh, Career and Placement Ser­
vices, Lower Level, Memorial Library 
4:45 -6:45: T-Shirt Sale, by Percussion Section of the Notre Dame Marching Band, part of proceeds will be donated to Christmas charities, Dining Halls 
7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "Coroner Creek," 1948, color, 93 minutes, Ray Enright, USA, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:00p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Air Force, ACC 
7:00 
p.m.: Meeting, Notre Dame Toastmasters International, members and guests welcome, 223 Hayes Healy 

7:00 
p.m.: Superstars of Wrestling, with Hulk Hogan and others, ACC, Tickets $9 &$12 


7:15 -8:30p.m.: Fellowship Meeting, The Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 
························································ 
7:30 p.m.: Music Department Concert, Notre Dame Woodwind Ensemble, Annen­berg Auditorium 
8:00 
p.m.: General Meeting for Charity Ball, all welcome to attend, if questions contact Dan Harrison, 283-3476, ISO stu­dent lounge 2nd floor of LaFortune Center 

8:00 
p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letter, and the Dept. of Philosophy lecture, Metaphysics, Theme: The Existence and Identities of Material Objects, "Material Objects II," by Prof. Peter Van Inwagen, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 


8:00p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Serries, College of Arts and Let­ters, and Depts. of History and Commu­nication lecture, Theme: History and the Social Sciences, "Is Gender a Useful Cat­egory of Historical Analysis?", by Prof. Joan Scott, Prof. of History, Institute for Advance Study,Princeton, 122 Hayes­
_Healy 
9:00 p.m.: SMC Dept. of Modern Lan­guages Film, "Bodas de Sangre," play by Garcia Lorca, dance by Antonio Grades, Carroll Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Harvest Picnic 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Scallopini Beef Tacos Turkey Melt Deli Bar 

"Give me a hand here, Eha ... I got Into a nest of wiener dogs over on Fifth and Maple." 
48 Electric unit 50 Fr. coin 51 Pour down 52 Pirogue 54 Ref's kinsman 56 Wild pig 57 "A fool and 
his money 
are-" 64 Light beige 65 Grit 66 Prepared 67 Dolt 68 Diminutive 
suffix 69 Claw 70 Zest 71 Using footwear 72 Coin 
DOWN 1 Elephant baby 2 Hodgepodge 3 Sp. boy 4-Knievel 
The Daily Crossword 



ACROSS 1 Strobile 5 Immense 9 Like a bump 
on­13 Animated 15 She in Paris 16 Part of a 
church 17 Wrinkled 18 "High-" 19 Insect 20 "A fool at 
forty is a-" 22 Sups 23-the line 24 Kukla's friend 26 Jai­30 Ordinal suffix 32 Integers: 
abbr. 33 Runs away 34 Asterisk 36 Blazing 40 Congregate 42 Malt beverage 43 Beastly 44 Large game 
fish 45 Cries 47 Early church 
desk 

C>1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
11/19/86

All Rights Reserved 
5 Blood feuds 6 Lily plant 7 Blackthorn 8 Sinew 9 "Fools rush In 
where-to tread" 10 Hawaiian 
veranda 11 Egg-shaped 12 Receives 14 Redact 21 Negatives 25 Bread unit 26 "There oughta 
be-" 27 Tibetan priest 28 Oriental 
nursemaid 29 "A fool's 
bell-" 41 London 56 Strap 31 Auras district 58 Pledge 35 Caromed 46 Cesspool 59 Aware 37 "My Friend -" 49 Makes untidy 60 Peruse 38 Nobel 52 Hot drink 61 Ankles 
physicist 53 Slugger Hank 62 Ancient land 39 N.C. college 55 Section 63 Unit of force 
•.ar• • • • • rr• ..r•• rrr•~~~ • • r• • • • • ..• • •~ • • rr• rrrrr• r.r• • rrt 
SAB Presents:rBERLIN TIX FOR SALE! 
Sunday Nov. 23 Monday Nov. 24 New Orleans Room LaFortune Student Center 8pm -lOpm 
$5.00 (that's right, ONLY $5) 
...................................... 
SAB Presents... 
Willie Wqnka and the Chqcqlate Factqry!! 
Tonight and Thursday 
$1.00 

Absolutely no food or drink allowedI 
...................................... 



~~ ---~--~---·------­
S~orts 
Momentum keys Irish as streak is put on line 
By BRIAN O'GARA The Irish will finish out their Sports Writer season on Saturday evening against a strong Purdue team. 
A long time ago some guy The Boilermakers defeated the made up three laws. This was Irish in three straight games in the same guy who had an apple the second match of the season fall on his head, remember? on September 6,one of only two Anyway, he said that the first times the Irish were swept all law of motion was that a body year long. in uniform motion will main­This has been by far the best tain that motion. year ever for Notre Dame vol­
With this in mind, the Notre leyball. The Irish are now 31-6 Dame volleyball team hope to after winning five matches in prove Newton right as it seeks the span of 28 hours last to continue their uniform mo­weekend, a school record. In tion, in the form of a school this week's NCAA Midwest record 15-game winning Volley-ball rankings, Notre streak, in an away match Dame retained the lOth spot for against Eastern Michigan. the second straight week. This is the first of three key With the Irish on a 25-2 tear battles for the Irish in their since September 20th, talk of a final week of regular season ac­possible bid to the NCAA tion. Three victories, and a Tournament has surfaced. little luck, could result in the Irish Coach Art Lambert, while first ever Notre Dame trip to praising his team's record­the NCAA Volleyball Tourna­breaking season, remains cau­ment. tious with predictions. 
The Irish cannot afford to "Who knows?" Lambert 
look past Eastern Michigan said. "The only thing we can tonight in anticipation of a pos­do is to make it through this sible tournament bid. The week unscathed. After that, it's Hurons are currently 17-10, out of our hands." fourth in the Mid-America Con­The tournament selection ference, and 20th in the Mid­committee, which announces west by the Midwest Volleyball the chosen teams the weekend Magazine. after Thanksgiving, will then 
After tonight's contest, the decide the postseason fate of Irish will return home on the team. However, the Irish Friday afternoon for their final are among stiff competition. home match of the year against Their only hope for a bid is in Northern Illinois. The game capturing one of two Mid-East time has been changed for this region at-large bids. Iowa, contest to a 4:30p.m. starting time. see IRISH, page 10 
W. Kentucky tickets remain available 
Special to The Observer may purchase two tickets 
per I.D. The cost for each 

Tickets are still on sale for ticket is $5 for both lower and Friday night's opening upper arena seating. Stu­round game of the Coca-Cola dents are reminded that the NIT Basketball game NIT tickets are not included against 21st-ranked Western in their season-ticket pack­Kentucky. Each student age. 
Wednesday, November 19, 1986 -page 12 

Kathleen Morin (3) and Mary Kay Waller (9) go up for a block in action against Bradley ear­lier this season. The volleyball team is riding a 15-game winning streak as they enter tonight's action against Eastern Michigan. Brian O'Gara has the story at left. 
Akers resigns head coaching spot; teaching named as reason for move 
By JANE SHEA Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's soccer coach John Akers resigned last Wed­nesday after serving as head coach for five years. Akers' decision to step down was motivated by a desire to devote more time to teaching. 
Akers' decision to step down as head coach came as a surprise to the Saint Mary's team. 
"We were all very surprised. Coach Akers was always very commited and never gave us any reason to believe he might be resigning," said senior cap­tain Gloria Eleuteri. 
In Akers five years as head coach, he brought the team from club status to the varsity level in the last two years. AI-though Akers has resigned the top post with the Belles, he will remain with the Belles as an assistant coach. 
This winter he is also coach­ing the indoor soccer team, a tournament in February, and will be recruiting perspective players. 
''The soccer team took a lot of responsibility and time,"said Akers. "Although I enjoyed it, I want to put more time into teaching." 
Next year Akers will be up for tenure, which is more pres­sure for him. 
Akers will be there next season to help the new head coach adjust, since he knows all the players and the pre­ssures they have as students. 
"I believe the Belles should be a strong varsity team next year, since we have another strong freshmen class coming in," said Akers. 
The present team members are all in weight training this winter and are playing indoor soccer. 
After ending this season with a 7-9-1 record, Akers antici­pates the Belles will have a winning season next year. 
"We will be playing more varsity teams and dropping some of the clubs,"said Akers. "I feel very positive about the team for next year." 
"Although I have some regrets about leaving, I will still be there as an assistant coach. I appreciate all the sup­port I have received from the Saint Mary's atheletic depart­ment over the last five years." 
Weaker schedule hopefully won't include Ivies 
If you can't beat them, don't play them. 
A stance similar to this seems to be the latest word out of Athetic Director Gene Corrigan's of­fice. He was quoted last week as saying that the Irish were going to begin to play schools with which they had more in common. 
This means teams such as Miami, Alabama and LSU may make fewer appearances on the Irish schedule. To fill their void, teams such as Virginia, Stanford, Boston College and, yes, even Northwes­tern will be paying more visits. 
Obviously, Notre Dame is sick of playing the No.l-rated schedule in terms of difficulty, as they have again this year. We keep hearing that the record must suffer because of the list of heavyweights awaiting the Irish every year. 
But now it seems as though Corrigan is sick of throwing the Irish up against the giants of football week in and week out. He wants to arrange for Notre Dame to be Goliath every once in a while. 
Who can really blame him? Strength of schedule is a very important measure of a team's quality. The Irish are being mentioned for the Aloha Bowl despite their losing record just because of their schedule. But despite the respect a tough schedule commands, simple markers in the "W" column are a lot more noticeable. 
Yet while these moves seem to be in the right 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

direction, we have to keep in mind that by the time we see a schedule with only four teams ranked in the preseason Top-20, most of us will be in the depths of a mid-life crisis. 
Schedules are agreed upon far into the future, and they have to be. For instance, the current contract with Michigan calls for ten opening games between the Irish and the Wolverines. Many of the other contracts are made on a home­and-home basis, but for several years. 
With the large number of years involved, it is often hard to expect exactly how good an opponent is going to be five or six years down the road. But it isn't really all that difficult. After all, how often is Michigan going to be a weakling, or Northwes­tern a power? 
So the move to a different type of schedule is underway. Will this move lessen the excitement of a Notre Dame season? Increase it? It's hard to tell where the tradeoff point for wins as opposed to strength-of-opponent lies. Is it a bigger game to be playing the third-rated team when your team is 4-4, or is it more monumental to be 6-2 and battling it out with 1-7 Northwestern? Which is more exciting? 
The one area that Notre Dame figures to be hurt in view of such a switch is in television revenues. The current schedule put the Irish on ABC for four games, and CBS for one, not to mention the cable deals for the rest, excluding SMU. With a lineup featuring the schools Corrigan mentioned earlier, the television contracts will not be quite as lucra­tive. 
That could be why the athletic department sud­denly annonunced that the Irish need to play six home games a year to bring in enough revenue. 
But while Notre Dame's frustration at playing excellent games only to get another mark in the loss column contributes a great deal to the switch in future opponents, another major part of the idea is a purely idealistic belief that Notre Dame should find schools of similar standards to play. 
Although the committee has yet to find an op­ponent that shares our ethanol abundance, the other candidates do appear to be quite similar to Notre Dame in that academics are a major part 
see IVIES, page 7 



