------~----------­
Rebels divided -page 4 

VOL XX, NO. 7S THURSDAY,JANUARY 23,1986 . . ­an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's · 
Students give 
Students join pro-lifers little support 


at Capitol Hlll march
for upcoming 
ByMARY HEALY which Park Police estimated at SeniorStaffReporter 71,000. An outdoor rally, held under blue

peace march 
WASHINGTON · Members of the skies and 60-degrec: weather, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to featured a five-minute speech byBy DAVID T. LEE 
life Club joined an estimated crowd President Ronald Reagan, who 
News Staff 
of up to 100,000 yesterday in Was­spoke via telephone hook-up from hington, D.C., for the annual march the White House:. Only one Notre Dame student 
and protest ofabortion. "I'm proud to stand with you in may participate in a cross-country 
Thirty members of the campus the long march for the right to life," march that aims to gain support for 
group went on the trip, the largest Reagan told the crowd. global nuclear disarmament, accord· 
turnout ever according to the club's ing to Student Body President Bill 
Vice President Bill Ryder. For the After listening to more than an Healy. 
first time, ND/SMC Right to life was hour of similar remarks from mem· Because students would be forced 
able to fill an entire bus for the trip. bers of Congress, the protesters to miss part of this semester in order 
"We've gained a lot of momen· marched down Pennsylvania to make the entire trek, the Great 
tum. Everyone is staning to realize Avenue from the White House to the Peace March has lacked student sup· 
the mistake that was made in 1973," Supreme Court building. port, according to Healy. 
Ryder said, referring to the 1973 They carried posters and chanted "You have to take nine months 
Roe vs. Wade Supreme Coun deci· slogans such as "Ufe ·yes! Abortion· off," said Healy, who said he 
sion which legalized abortion. no!" and "Hey! Uoctors! Leave those wouldn't be participating because of 
March organizer Nellie Gray, kids alone!" his academic and leadership respon· 
crying "look how strong we are" to Notre Dame students shouted sibllitles. 
the demonstrators, estimated the "Notre Dame loves life" In response crowd at about 100,000. to Marquette University students' "A lot of people would want to 
However, District of Columbia shouts of, "Marquette loves life." support something like this 
and U.S. park Police estimated the Ryder said he was encouraged by (There are) a lot ofdifferent ways to 
crowd at 36,000-to-37,000 -a bit express dislike for the arms race," he 
more than half last year's crowd, See MARCH, page 3 added. According to Healy, the one stu· dent who may participate in the 


War Memorial slated 
march is Felicia Leon. But even she is "doubtful" about participating in the the march, Leon 

for completion in May
said. The Lyons senior said she wanted 

By MARILYN BENCHIK For Peace', will also appear on the to walk with the group, but because 
StaffWriter crosspiece," said Dedrick. the march begins on March 1, she 
He said he has spent agreat deal of would have to miss her final 
The Notre Dame War Memorial time planning the movement of the semester at Notre Dame. 
Fountain project Is running on limestone columns with the Indiana schedule and is tentatively planned Umestone Company. Although she likely will not make 
to be finished by mid-May, accord· "We have arranged all the details the entire march, Leon said she may 
lng to Don Dedrick, director of the with the rigger, and there should be join the marchers in the summer if_it 
physical plant. no problem in setting the remaining "There have been no problems in columns into place," said Dedrick. 
"gains momentum." "I'll see how It startsout," she said. 

the construction of the fountain," The first columns arrived on Mon· The march's organizers had 
Dedrick said. day and were put In place: the follow· ing day. Each column is 20-fc:c:t high
originally planned on approximately "Building the fountain In the and will be topped by a t 0-foot
"1000 persons undenaking the jour· ney, but they're nearly ~000 short of winter presents an advantage be· limestone piece. Other sections will cause the frozen ground supports arrive each Monday, Wednesday and their original goal, according to media coordinator Peter Kleiner. 

the weight of the columns," he Friday until Feb. 7. A.~ the mar{·h progresses 
added. "The project could be completed Dedrick said there are eight by commencement, said Dedrick. It
ea.o;tward, however, he anticipates limestone columns, each weighing depends upon the construction rate
that many "short-term marchers" 85,000 pounds. Across the top of of the flat granite. "john Burgee, a
will join the ranks. Along the route, Kleiner said, ad· 

these columns will be a crosspiece, Notre Dame graduate, is the ar·

I'll huff and I'll ... 

he said. chltect and designer of the project,"
visors and teachers will develop he said. "He Is based in New York
seminars 10 "help students arrange Alan Perry, a Flanner Hall resident, peddled away in Weight 

"On the face of this crosspiece. and following the construction
independent study credits," mostly Room 2 at the Rockne Memorial yesterday. As students settle back 

will be inscribed the names ofNotre process closely."
in the area of peace studies. into the long stretch of winter, m~ny will work on gelling their 

Dame's war veterans since World According to Dedrick, the late
According to Kleiner, the march bodies back into shape for the sunny Floridian beaches at spring 

War II. The Latin phrase 'Pro Patria Maude Clarke underwrote the cost
break. 

Pro Pace', translated 'For Patriotism of the War Memorial Fountain. 
See PEACE, page 4 


Obesity associated with genes, not childhood eating habits 
AMoclatc:d PrcM that they mirrored the shape of the However, the study, published in 
0
adoptive parents who raised them. today's New England journal of 
BOSTON . Whether people grow Many experts believe that Medicine, was not intended to imply up to be fat or skinny depends in heredity plays at least some role in that people have no control over large part on their genes and seems obesity. But they also often theorize their weight or that calories don't to have: nothing to do with the eating that fat people get that way because count. habits they learn a.o; children, a new they learn bad eating practices early "What has been shown here is that study concludes. in life. there is a stronggenetic factor," said 
The research helps explain why "The real surprise: is that the Dr. jules Hirsch of Rockefeller Uni· some people remain chubby even adoptive family has no impact at all, versity. when they diet constantly, while ot· as far as we can tell," said the study's .In an interview, Stunkard cau· hers stay trim no matter what they director, Dr. Albert Stunkard of the tioned that his findings certainly eat: Fatnes.o; and thinness are in their University of Pennsylvania. don't mean that the war on fat is genes. Authorities have long argued over hopeless. Lots ofpeople with two fat 
The finding.~ were based on a whether nature or nunure is the key parents · probably the highest study of adopted children. They of· to obesity that runs in families. Dr. genetic risk for obesity · take off ten grew up to have the body builds Theodore Van ltallie ·of St. Luke's. weight and keep it off. of their biologic parents. Slim offspr· Roosevelt Hospital Center in New Instead, he said, the research ing frequently had slender natural York concludes that the new helps explain why "it's more dif· parents and overweight children research "appears to resolve that ficult for some people than for ot· had fat ones. There was no evidence controversy." hers." 


The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
Herb the missing character on which Burger King has based a 140 million advertising campaign, is about to come in from the cold. The campaign, over the last two months, has been a flop, according to analysts. Nevertheless, Herb will be introduced formally in two 30-second commercials that the Miami-based company has purchased during the Super Bowl football game Sunday. -AP 
A 7 -year-old girl was suspected of driving when the car carrying her and her stepfather plunged into a canal in Cape Coral, Fla., police said. "It's speculation, but the position ofthe wheel does lead us to believe she might have been driving," police Chief Jim White said. The car and the bodies ofKristy Nicole Nieuboer and Harold Conover, 79, both ofCape Coral, were discovered Sunday by a fisherman. The car was submerged in a canal in this lower Gulf Coast town. -AP 

Of Interest 
South African apartheid will be the topic dis­cussed tonight on WNIT-Channel 34's program "34 Front" at 7:30. Father Oliver Williams, professor of management at Notre Dame, and Professor Peter Walshe, director of the African studies depart­ment and a professor in the government and international relations department, will be the featured guests. The show is based on a public call-in format. -The Obseroer 
Seniors: A Post l'l!ew Year's Eve Party will be held this Satur­day from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Haggar CoUege Center. The pric~ is 12 at the door and those wishing to drink must show a 21 10. -The Obseroer 
A mini-booksale, sponsored by the Friends of the South Bend Public library, will be held at the Francis Branch library this tomorrow, Saturday and Monday. The sale, which is open to the public, offers fiction and non-fiction hardcovers, juvenile titles and paperback materials at nq_minal fees. Call the branch at 282-4641 for time schedules. -The Obseroer 
Actors for Africa will present the play, "Mass Appeal," to benefit the starving in Africa on tomorrow and Saturday nights at 
7:30 in Washington Hall. All proceeds will go to the Benedictine Missions for distribution to the African Relief Fund. The Student Ac­tivities Board and the Around the Corner Club are co-sponsoring the event. Tickets are 12 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and are being sold at the Student Activities Office or the ACC Box Office. -The Obseroer 
A Volunteer Fair will be held this Saturday from 10 

a.m. to 4 p.m. at University Park Mall. Community agencies wiU have volunteer information and sign-up sheets available. -The Obseroer 
The Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns begins tomorrow with Frank Reilly, dean ofthe College ofBusiness Administration, speaking on "The College Curriculum and the Spe­cial Mission ofNotre Dame." The talk is open tofaculty and staff from 
12:15 p.m. to 1 p.m. Soup and bread wiU be available for 11 and can be reserved by calling 239-5293.-The Obseroer 

Weather 
Sunny ... but cold today with I highs from 30 to 35. Increasing cloudiness tonight with lows in the.mid teens. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the upper 30s. -AP 


Ihe-Obs.-e~,.er-­
--------.1.-==Y~ --­
Design Editor.........................Chris Bowler Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Typesetters ........................ Mark B. Johnson 
Becky Gunderman Typtst .......................................... CoUecn Foy Slotman ........................................JelfBiumb News Editor...................... Mark Pankowsld CopyEditor.......................Ann Kaltenbach Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymansld Viewpoint Copy Editor......julie CoUinge 
Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout.........Jane Anne Rcldfurd ND Day Editor...................Sharon Emmlte SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign .............................. Peter Georges Joan Wrappe Jim Kraimer Pbotograpber ......................... Andy Sandler 

lbe Observer (liSPS 599 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbeObserver is published by the stud.:ntsofth.: l'niversity of Notr.: Dam.: and Saint Mary's Coll.:ge. Subscriptions may be purchased for s~o per y.:ar ( UO per sem.:st.:r) by writing lbe 6bserver, P.O. Box Q. Notr<: Dame. Indiana 
46~~6. 
lbe Observer is a member of The Auoc:lalcd Press. AU reproduction rights are 

r~srrvc=d 


Notre Dame's modem architects don't build them·like they used to 
Bring back Maginnis and Walsh. 
This duo is not as weU known as other figures that lurk in the history of this campus, but these tw:o ac­hitects' influence can be observed in many buildings on campus. Alumni, Dillon, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen­Phillips, Farley and the Law School are the creations of their architectural firm. 
These buildings and the ones that preceded them, represent Notre Dame. When driving up Notre Dame Avenue, the traditional main entrance to the University, the golden dome ofthe administration building is in the distance and the Law School and Alumni Hall are in the foreground. The Maginnis and Walsh buildings ~ave greeted people at the entrance to campus for more than 50 years. 
These buildings have the "collegiate gothic" style: ivy on the walls and Notre Dame slate roofs that makes you think "college," that makes you think "Notre Dame." 
The Maginnis and Walsh buildings were mostly built in the 1930s and 1940s. They tried to continue some of the style that dominated the buildilfWl that preceded 


John Men nell 
Production Manager 
"collegiate yuk." While this was a popular style in the 1960s, so was long hair and tie-dyed clothes. That is to say that times have changed. 
The newer EUerbe buildings are not as unattractive, partly because they are more "in style." Times will change again and in 1 0 or 20 years they too may be viewed with abhorrence. 
The Ellerbe buildings paint a frightening picture for the University. Current plans have new dormitories and a new classroom building as construction prerogatives for the fairly near future. While the towers and the Pasquerillas are not as gastly as some other Ellerbe dor­
them to the campus. Their mitories, they are not projects continued until beautiful. Their attempt at a 1947. classroom building is not an 
Then came Ellerbe As­architectural masterpiece sociates. by any stretch of the im­
Then came Stanford, agination. Keenan, Lewis and the Ellerbe has been doing North Dining Hall. most of the building on this 
For some, these buildings campus since the 1950s and have tradition, for many ot­it does not look like this will hers they are an eyesore. change but Notre Dame 
Ellerbe and Associates are should find a new architect. 
responsible for most of the buildings built on this campus since the 1950's. One of their first creations was O'Shaughnessy Hall of liberal and Fine Arts, constructed in 1952. Had any fine arts been used in the construction of that building, it might not have been so awful. 
Popular folklore relates a story that O'Shaughnessy Hall had the same design as a grade school in Min­neapolis, from where both EUerbe and Ignatius O'Shaughnessy had come. 
This legend would account for the doors opening into the hall (in an elementary school there would be lockers along the wall and the doors would not protrude out as far) and the low height ofthe restroom fixtures (to better accommodate children). 
According to Thomas Schlereth in The University of Notre Dame: A Portrait ofIts History and Campus the stories are not true. The building was just poorly designed as famous architect Frank Uoyd Wright noted in a visit to campus. 
Since that building, EUerbe and Associates have con­structed many other buildings in a style known as The style of Notre Dame 
should not be changed. Too 
many EUerbe buildings 
might do this. At other 

schools you can see the result of expansion. There is a nice core ofolder build­ings and then, packed in every other space is some new monstrosity. The result is the deterioration of the campus. 
There were other architects before Maginnis and Walsh who have had a positive affect on the campus, most noteably Francis Kervick and Vincent Fagan. Both taught at Notre Dame's School ofArchitecture for more than 30 years. 
These two designed Lyons, Morrissey and Howard. They collaborated with Ralph Adams Cram on the South Dining Hall. 
The North Dining Hall may have new china and big· ger trays, but it still looks like a high school cafeteria. 
Fagan, Kervick, Maginnis and Walsh dominate the South Quad. Whoever designs the new buildings should spend some time there. They should look at what makes the old buildings stand out and fit in. Then, in styles similar to the older buildings, they should design the new ones. 
Either that or build them in Elkhart. 





Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
Howdolknow if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a prieSt? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
Forpersonal, confidential intervie"' "'ith no obligation, please "'rite orcall a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

Forappointment, call bet..,een 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6358 

Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1986-page 3 
30 programs to be represented at Center for Social Concerns Festival 

By KATIE CRONIN 
News Staff 
Those forgeting to read the 
"yellow pages" in The Observer two days ago can.still find out what you need to know about community 'St:rvice from 6 to 9:30 tonight at the Center for Social Concerns Festival. More than 30 student groups and 
community agencies will be 
represented at the festival, accord­
ing to Kathy Royer, the festival's 
coordinator. 
Included among these groups will 
be the Big Brothers and Big Sisters 
programs, the World Hunger Coali­
tion, and the Neighborhood Study 
Help Program, Royer said. The Shel­
ter for the Homeless and the Logan 
Center will also be at the festival, she 
said. 

Planned Parenthood leader claims excommunication won't affect her 
Parenthood ofRhode Island for nine years. The organization provides counseling on birth control and pregnancy and performs abortions. 
She said she did not disclose her ouster from the church because of publicity that would follow. 
Word of the excommunication came during an anti-abortion program broadcast Tuesday on several cable television outlets. The show's narrator, Father John Ran· dall, made the disclosure, calling her "public enemy No. 1 of all babies being killed in the womb in Rhode Island." 


March 
continuedfrom page 1 
the large turnout. "It makes people think when I00,000 people get together for one cause," he said. 
"It's important that we come every year and show our presence. We are one of the prominent Cat­holic universities In the country. It's just a shame there aren't more here," he added. 
Many of the protesters from around the country left to lobby members ofCongress after complet· ing the two-mile march to the Supreme Court building. However, several dozen moved through police lines at the building and knelt to pray and to chant "Stop The Killing" and other slogans. 
They were warned they would be arrested if they remained, and after several minutes police began taking people into custody. 
In Washington, club members at· tended a meeting at which Indiana Senators Richard Lugar and Dan Quayle, both opponents ofabortion, encouraged the pro-life efforts but expressed limited optimism about anti-abortion efforts in Congress. 
Nevertheless, Theresa Har­rington, a freshman at Saint Mary's said she was glad she took the time to join the march. "As Catholics, it is something we should believe in. We can't let this issue: die: through apathy," she said. 
"Ifanyone is going to keep it alive, it's going to be us, the younger generation." 
Tbe Associated Press contributed to tbis report. 

Correction 
Because of an editing error in yesterday's Hall Presidents' Council story, Bruce Lohman's title was incorrect. He has no offi­cial association with student government or the Judicial Council The Observer regrets the error. 

Associated Pre88
~100 
OFF ANY MOVIE 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. · The head of the state's Planned Parenthood or­
CLOCK TOWD SQUARI 
ganization said yesterday that her51400 U.S. 31·33 NOITH excommunication from the Roman
South lend, Ind. 277·1510 
Catholic Church for what it called
Call Far Detalla ta Jain 
activities causing "the sinful ter­mination of human life" would not affect her work or her religious beliefs. 

"I am a Catholic and I will always be a Catholic," Mary Ann Sorrentino said. "Whether they give me com­munion or bury me in their church isn't going to change that.... I can sit in my living room and talk to my 
Let's Talk Careers/ 
First National Bank of Omaha is hosting a reception. 
Monday, January 27, 1986 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
Morris Inn Alumni Room 
Royer said such programs offer "education through involvement." 
"It's an opportunity to express yourself and your values," she added. 
Royer said the CSC's challenge is to present an interesting oppor­tunity to participate to all the dif­ferent people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Royer added that she felt students are broadening their in­terests. 
There are a large variety of programs in which one could become involved, Royer said. 
More than I 000 students are presently involved in at least one area of community service or social action, she said. 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program has the laragest number of participants, according to Royer. 
There are approximately 300 stu­dents who volunteer two hours a week in the study program, which provides tutoring for South Bend children, she said. 
The Dismas House is a new program that is working to establish a community ofstudents and former prisioners, Royer said. The program, which is designed to rehabilitate former prisoners, is looking for in­terested students, she added. 
Students may come to the Center for Social Concerns Festival tonite if they want to find out how to become involved, she said. 
Those attending may also watch the Actors for Africa present a short scene from "Mass Appeal" at 8:30 p.m., and refreshments will be served, said Royer. 

God. I don't need to go to their church." 
The Diocese of Providence ex­communicated Sorrentino in June, saying in a letter that her efforts had "resulted in the sinful termination of human life." The Vatican City liaison in Washington supported the move. 
"It is incomprehensible that you cannot perceive that you are an ac­complice when you direct an agency where ... approximately one­sixth of the state's 7,000 abortions a year are performed," theJune I4let­ter said. 
Sorrentino, 43, has been ex­ecutive director of Planned 
BACK TO THE GRIND For you it'• back to the boob. For u• it'• griadiag lea•e• for your better vudoa 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
c:oatact., gla••e• 
ND/ SMC STUDENTS, FACULTYAND STAFF 

Show your I.D. aad receive
TONIGHT 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS
ring Service Festival -C.S.C. 6-9 PM 
&eluding Specials

or Dining Hall Lunches: Tuesday 1-28 








ProfessionalVISion
Wednesday 1 
ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage
1635 N.lronwood 
234-2400277-1161 

Martin's Shopping

South of .U.S. 23 

Center 

First National Bank of Omaha is an innovative, aggressive leader among financial institutions in Nebraska. Established in 1863, today we offer a wider range of services to people and businesses across the country than any other financial institution in the area. 
We1l be on campus interviewing Tuesday, February 18, 1986, and we'd like to introduce ourselves before that date. Our representatives will be available Monday, January 27, 1986, to talk to you about First National Bank of Omaha and the opportunities available with a strong and growing regional banking power. We look forward to meeting you! 
(j) 





frst national txJnk 
of omaha 
an equal opportunity employer 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Thursday; January 23, 1986-page 4 
Nicaraguan rebels divided, U.S. mllitary aid will not help 
AaMK:iated Press 
WASHINGTON-A U.S_-sponsored Nicaraguan rebel unity group ­central to President Reagan's plan to resume military aid to the insurgents -has failed to heal the deep divisions that have plagued the war against that nation's leftist government, prominent Nicaraguan exiles say. 
Many of the exiles, longtime op­ponents of Nicaragua's Sandinista government, also expressed doubt that even renewed American military aid can avert the rebels' ul­timate defeat as long as the move­ment is run by leaders the exiles contend are hand-picked by the U.S. government. 
Several added that the only realis­tic hope now for ousting the San­dinista government is d~ect U.S. military intervention to crush the Soviet-supplied Nicaraguan army ­an option the Reagan administration has repeatedly rejected. 

The grim assessment by leading Nicaraguans in Miami, Washington and California comes as Reagan prepares to ask Congress for as much as S100 million in military and non-lethal aid for the Contra rebels ­a proposal expected to reignite bit­ter debate over Central America. 
Administration and congressional officials say the success of Reagan's expected request hinges on per­suading moderate House members that the United Nicaraguan Opposi­tion, UNO, the rebefs' principal umbrella group, poses a unified and effective democratic alternative to the Sandinistas. 
"UNO will have to show that it is the legitimate political leader of the Contras, that it controls the military and has a platform for a democratic society for Nicaragua," Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee chairman, said yes­terday. 
But Nicaraguan exiles, interviewed by The Associated Press, questioned UNO's success in unifying and controlling rebel ranks after itwas created at the administra­tion's urging last June. The AP inter­viewed 22 anti-Sandinista Nicaraguan exiles about their views on the political and military situa­tion. 
"UNO is designed to do battle in Congress, not to do battle in the front lines, with the people of Nicaragua," said Silvio Arguello­Cardenal, a former Nicaraguan vice president, now living in Miami. "It owes its existence ... exclusively to ... U.S. intelligence agencies that 
Voyager discovers planet Uranus has clouds, winds and 14 moons 
PASADENA, Calif. -Voyager 2, racing toward the climax ofits his­toric sightseeing cruise to Uranus, has found clouds and winds in the planet's atmosphere and dis­covered two more moons, NASA said yesterday. 
The newly discovered satellites raise the total of known Uranian moons to 14. They are the first "shepherd moons" found orbiting Uranus, Voyager imaging team leader Brad Smith said. 
Shepherd moons are so named because their gravitational forces are believed to herd the planet's nine known rings into their narrow shapes. 

Clouds swirling in the Uranian atmosphere also were discovered by the Voyager spacecraft, said Ed Stone, Voyager project scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Jet Propul­sion Laboratory. 
"This is the first time that any discrete (distinct) clouds have ever been detected in the atmo­sphere of Uranus," Stone said during a news conference yester­day. 
Some ofthe clouds were tracked as they moved around the planet, traveling at different speeds at various latitudes. 
"In other words, there are winds there," Stone said. JPL astronomer Richard Terrile 
said that each of two shepherd moons measure 12 to 18 miles in diameter. They were discovered Monday in photographs taken by Voyager, said Smith, a University of Arizona astronomer. 
The two moons were found "inside and outside the epsilon ring," the outermost and widest of the nine rings, and were designated as 1986U7 and 1986U8 until they are formally named, he added. 
Seven other moons have been discovered by Voyager since late December, and the planet's five major moons were discovered ear­lier by telescopes on Earth. None of those 12 moons are shepherd moons. 






Lawmakers find no captive MIAs 
provide it direction and exercise strict every-day control over its military operations and political pronouncements." 
Jose Medina Cuadra, a Nicaraguan attorney living in Miami, said he resigned from UNO because "the group was set up to function on paper, but not in action." 
Even with a big infusion of U.S. military aid, the rebels "can never overthrow the Sandinistas on their own," Medina said. He said he would support direct U.S. intervention in Nicaragua "because the Soviets and the Cubans have already intervened and control Nicaragua." 
Conservative exiles sharply criticized the inclusion of former Sandinista officials, Arturo Cruz and Alfonso Robelo, in the triumvirate that runs UNO. They hold Cruz and Robelo responsible for the San­dinistas' confiscation of their property and they contend the U.S. attempt to'broaden the rebel move­ment by including them has deepened divisions. 
The third UNO leader is Adolfo Calero, head of the CIA-organized Nicaraguan Democratic Force, FDN, the largest rebel army. But his presence, too, has been divisive, with rival rebel factions charging that UNO's management of S27 mil­lion in non-lethal US. aid -mostly food, medicine and clothing -is in­tended to subjugate them under the conservative FDN. 
Armstrong Wiggins, a spokesman for an Indian contra group, Misurasata, said UNO has used the 
U.S. logistical aid to divide Indian or­ganizations and lure Indian fighters into the FDN at the expense ofother groups. 

Living the Rock 'n Roll Dream 
A one man play that traces the life of a rock star &om his rebellious youth to his mellowed old age. 
Saturday, February 1 
8:00 at Washington Hall 
Tic:kets on sale at the Ticket Stub and at the door for $3.00 
Student Activities Board 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Members of Congress who visited Vietnam and Laos "did not receive anything" to encourage the belief that American servicemen are still being held prisoner there, the head of the delegation said yesterday. 
"I don't want to raise any false hopes," Sen. Frank Murkowski, R­Alaska, told a news conference called to report on the delegation's recently concluded Southeast Asian tour. 
Murkowski, chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, said the panel will hold hearings next week on the possibility American prisoners remain in cap­tivity in Southeast Asia more than a decade after the end ofthe war. 

A top Pentagon official had said last week that the Vietnamese government has pledged to join U.S. authorities in investigating nearly a hundred "live-sighting reports" of Americans missing in Indochina. 
Sen. Dennis OeConcini, D-Ariz., another member of the delegation who returned last week from the nine-day overseas tour, said yester­day: "It is my belief that it is very, very likely that there are some Americans there." 
But DeConcini refused to ·say whether he believes these Americans actually are prisoners, raising the possibility they may be defectors -a spectre the Pentagon long has acko.owledged. 
Murkowski said the delegation had heard reports that some Viet­namese were apparently selling or 
rival, so that students could see the marchers, have failed, according to


Peace 

junior Xavier Zang. He said he is attempting to get
continued/rom page 1 

University President Father Theo­will make its way into South Bendon dore Hesburgh to allow the mar­Aug. 22. chers to sleep overnight at Notre 
Efforts to change the date of ar-Dame. 
THURS. 
JAN 23 

88c10:30pm 

$1.50 

bartering bones believed to be those ofAmerican servicemen, but said he had few details. 
In some instances, Murkowski said, Vietnamese wanting to get out of the country had offered to produce bones if the government would permit them to leave. 
He noted that in recent months, the Vietnamese government had asked the populace to look hard for the remains ofsoldiersfrom the war. 
Officially, the U.S. position is that the government cannot flatly rule out the possibility that American prisoners are still being held. 
The United States is pushing for a full accounting of the 2,441 Americans still listed as unac­counted for, including 1,797 in Viet­nam. 





1•--
LIOUORS,INc.
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23, y,; mtle west ot Martm ·s Supermarlcet 
Donald Seymour  (and It's all pop music, isn't it?)  hook, but you know the tune has  
features writer  could and should be.  not begun until that bass kicks in. ~urprisingly, the music is rather  PREFAB SPROUT  
Prefab Sprout is the band; Two Wheels Good Is the album. I  ...The most  light-hearted and mid-tempo. McAloon's lyrics provide the  TWO WHEELS GOOD  
picked this one up In Britain, and over there the album is called Steve  eccentrically  songs with their idiosyncratic ap­peal. An example from "Moving the  
McQueen. Strangely enough, singer/songwriter Paddy McAloon  original and  Rlver," You surely are a truly gifted kid  
looks remarkably like the late screen idol.  well-crafted  Butyou're only as good as the last great thing you did  
Records ,....-....Two Wheels Good (out of tour)  songs ... Paddy McAloon is obviously the creative center and driving energy  And where have you been since then? Did the schedule get you down? Hearyou got a new girlfriend How's the wife taking it?  

 ofthe band. With the guidance of  Such fare washes past my ears  
Regardless of the title, and  producer Thomas Dolby, he has  like a mountain stream. Take the  
despite the band's name, which  filled this collection with some of  main line of"Desire As:" Desire is a  
tends to scare away laymen to the  the most eccentrically original and  self figured creature that changes  
delight of the band's fans, Two  well-crafted songs I have ever  her own mind. I won't make any  
Wheels Good is indubitably one of  heard.  pretentious stabs at meaning; that is  
the year's finest albums.  The sound is melodic, full of  up to you, but I find something ·  
acoustic guitars, delicate synths,  satisfying about these songs which  
There Is no reason to be scared.  twanging electric guitars, and  cannot be expressed in writing.  
This album did not make The Ob­ sparse orchestration, and driven by  I recommend you open your  
sern·r's "Best of '8'5" list. Trust me.  a throbbing bass. A typical McAloon  mind to the possibility ofinvestigat­ 
Pre tab Sprout produces what pop  song begins with the main melodic  ing Two Wheels Good. It's worth it.  

------~ -----:/-.. 

Accent 
Thursday, january 23, 1986-page 5 
Band sprouts hope for pop music scene 
Evolution mellows music, not gutsy lyrics 


Bad art clogs American music airwaves 

BRIAN PETERS 
featun!s writer 

I 
fyou haven't heard yet D. Boon is dead. 
Well, you might be asking your· 
selfwho D. Boon is. Maybe you 
don't even care. But you should. 
Records 


.--...., 
3-way Tie LJ'\t Place) 
..... ~ ....... .......... r) 

D. Boon was the Minutemen's main man. He was the group's lead singer and songwriter. Now you may he scratching your head won­dering who this group is since they have never had a song within a mile ofthe Top 40. 
The trio from San Pedro, Calif., the Minutemen, play all sorts of music. Last year's critically ac­claimed album, Double Nickels on the Dime, featured the band playing songs that were loud and fast, most 
MARYJACOBY 
assistant features editor 
o one needs this bogus, preten­
N tious album. Even a guest ap­pearance by Pete Buck from R.E.M. can't help (his guitar on "Party" Is barely audible anyway). Sure, there's a hit single, "Life in a Nor­thern Town." Sure, the album is smooth and the arrangements are melodic. And sure, most people don't know their up from down, and that's why The Dream Academy Is bound to be popular. 

Records

~ The Dream ..1\caaemy 
*1 
(out ot tour) 
Now, whoa there. Don't start getting all excited and red in the face. I know this Is a very nice· sounding album. No, I'm not deaf. I can hear The Dream Academy just fine. And that's the problem. 
What I hear Is three Thompson­Twin clones taking themselves way too seriously and spewing out some 111st over a minutc: long. Hence the name Minutemen. 
Hut on the band's latest album, 3·Way fit' (For Last), the band has gone through a transition, an evolu­tion. The songwriting has mellowed musically but not lyrically. The lyrics are very political, running sharply against Reagan's America. 

The lyrics are very political, running sharply against Reagan's America. 
In "Just Another Soldier," Boon takes a decidely anti-war stanch when he sings: 
Over300 dead and we still got pride. 

of the most laughable lyrics in a long time accompanined by inof­fensive but thoroughly forgettable melodies. 
... Three Thomp­son-twin clones taking them­selves way too seriously ... 
My only solace in listening to this album is knowing that The Dream Academy is representative ofthe bland, unchallenging British pop clogging American airwaves right now, a welcome reverse ofthe situation ofapproximately five 
. years ago when the only good music was comingfrom England. Yes, America is back on top In the music world, but unfortunately many Americans don't seem to realize that. 
What's wrong with this album? First of all, it's a very bad work of art. Yes, albums are works of art and this one must have been painted by someone attempting to hold the brush in his toes or something. It's sad but true. 
Lyrics like the following from "Bound To Be" wouldn't be so bad ifthe Dream Academy were joking: 
You shone a ltght in my life that could ltght up Park Lane I was feeltng neroous because I missed mygravy train. 
The band sings such examples of idiocy with complete earnestness, punctuating what is probably singer/songwriter Nick Laird­Clowes' innermost feelings and collected observations ofa short lifetime. Tame, harp-like guitars strive to provide an ethereal aura but succeeding only in presenting a poor immitatlon ofpsychedelia. 
There is much more orignial music out there in the world than what The Dream Academy makes, and eight dollars might be better spent elsewhere. 
We have lost all our morals and still gotpride. 
The band does not push the lyrics on you the way some other bands do. Instead, the band subtly presents its ideas in songs that are so musically solid that you don't seem to notice the harsh lyrics. Boon's guitar weaves in and out of the songs with Spanish-sounding melodies, demonstrating further the mastery he was able to achieve on the instrument which made the Minutemen one ofAmerica's most critically acclaimed bands. 
And one of the highpoints on the album has nothing to do with politics at all. The Minutemen present an excellent cover of Credence Clearwater Revival's classic "Have You Ever Seen the 'Rain?" 
So what have you learned at lunch today? 
You now know about a great band that has just put out a great album but has also lost the bond that held them so tightly together. God rest D. Boon. God rest the fat soul. 



~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t________________Th_ur-sda-y,~Jan_u~~23~,1-98-6--pag~e-6 
Selective divestment will produce the best effect 
The University of Notre Dame should con­tinue selectively divesting from its holdings in South Africa in order to encourage a long­term attitude change in both whites and blacks, by using a low inducement level and by creating dissonance, as all companies fol­lowing the Sullivan code do. According to so­cial psychology the next two points may be the answer to South Africa's racial problems. Low inducement has been proved by social psychologists to attain the highest degree of attitude change. Dissonance creates the change, yet, since a low levelofinducement is needed for a strong attitude change, the Sul­livan code provides a theoretical answer. 
Randy Battistoni guest column 
Social psychology studies the relationship 
between social institutions, social groups and the individual behavior. The problems in South Africa deal with social institutions (companies), .social groups (apartheid vs. African National Congress), and individuals (President Botha.and Nelson Mandela, for ex­ample). Thus, SQcial psychology would be the place to look for reasons to divest. The fact that the United States has made significant strides in overcoming racism in the past few decades through these theories should be proofthat a feasible solution exists. 
Low inducement will attain the greatest at­titude change. When an attitide changes with little or no inducement, the change becomes internalized. For example, if a person was asked to move to a different country he would most likely be opposed to leaving, yet if his brother explained some logical reasQt'Is in favor of his leaving he might change his at· titude. This change in attitude would be easily taken into this person's set of values because 

II 
YEA II' WE WERE IN [(JROPE lA.S T SE~ESTER. WHY?'' 


P.O. BoxQ 
whether or not to continue the boycott. Ifyou 
would like to learn more about the situation 
much as I have chosen to do, feel free to write: 
"Campbell Cares, Box 60K, Campbell Soup 
Company, Campbell Place, Camden, N.J. 
08054." 

Please do not fall victims yourselves to 
uneducated attacks on an innocent third 
party. 

Bradley T.jobnson, Chairman Indiana Federation ofCollege Republicans 
Apartheid supporters should get facts straight 
Dear Editor: 
While I do not intend to answer the vicious, ignorant rigamarole presented by Chris Ed­wards in his piece on apartheid, he makes one analogy which ought to anger Americans. To compare the American "green card" with the "pass" the South African black has to carry is obscene. The "green card" is designed to welcome and include; the; "pass" is there to degrade and exclude. Edwards, a government major, needs to go back and take an introduc­tory course on American citizenship. 
His whitewash of the pariah government in Pretoria and the underlying racism of his at­tack on blacks parallel closely the strategy being used by Jerry Falwell. Edwards and Fal­well have accepted the fundamentals of apar­theid. 
Professor Ktrn Trembath's contribution to the discussion -his comparison between ac­tivism in the United States in the late 60s and the current struggle against apartheid -can only be described as self-indulgent. But there are more fundamental problems with his ap­proach. 

Those who support divestment have never assumed it will be sufficient in itself to bring Pretoria to the negotiating table. Divestment must be seen as a vital, further pressure, sup­porting black protests inside the Republic. As to those protests, Trembath shows no under­standing of their character. Black South Africans are very tired ofbeing told by middle­class whites that they "are suffering enough as it is" -so no further disruptions please! It is extraordinary to find a theologian arguing for business as usual with South Africa's militaryI industrial complex. 
Trembath should read the recently pul;>lished Kairos Document, signed by 150 leading South African Christians · blacks and whites from every denomination. It reminds us that "the church must avoid becoming a 'third force,' a force between the oppressor and the oppressed." Rather the church "must now take sides unequivocally and consis­tently with the opressed" against an "irreformable regime that has lost any legitimacy . a tyrant . that vi­olates the common good persistently and in the grossest manner." 

Laura E. Greeman Notre Dame graduate student 

Campbell's not treated fairly by the boycotters 
DearEditor: 
As chairman of Indiana College Republicans, I often come across many events taking place on campuses around the state. None have so far shocked me as much as the Notre Dame boycott "of Campbell Soup Com­pany. 
In recent columns in The Observer by Sue Yadlon (Oct. 14, 1985) and Patrick Markey (Dec. 10, 1985), support was given to the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC). The conditionsofour migrant workforce have admittedly been deplorable in the past, but the arguments asserted by Yadlon and Markey have no bearing on the recent Campbell boycott. 
I will initially concede that the issue is non­partisan; my interest is solely as a concerned student afraid of a movement on my home campus ofPurdue University. 
After investigating this lssue just a little deeper, I found that Campbell had been vic­timized by FLOC supporters (originated in 1979 by Baldemar Velasquez) simply because ofthe company's high national visibility; such is an open admission ofFLOC itself. 
I also found that Campbell has hired a full­time Ombudsman (an Hispanic by the name ofAfredo Carrizales) to act a a liaison between migrants, farmers, and Campbell; and that 
Doonesbury 
Campbell has acted with FLOC in establishing a joint commission to constantly monitor migrant working conditions. The Committee is headed by former Secretary of Labor John Dunlop. 
Campbell has contracts with 90 farmers in Ohio, and 98 percent of these harvest mec­hanically. Records corroborate that Campbell is in full compliance with the Fair Labor Stan­dards Act, that Campbell has recognized the right of migrant workers to organize and that Campbell is directly subsidizing living condi­
tions that exceed Ohio requirements. 
Not only is Campbell working on behalfof these workers, but the company is also keeping the families ofthese workers in mind by establishing full-time day care centers which serve to care for migrant children much as a private nursery does. 
The question of pesticide usage in fields where migrant workers have been harvesting has also been raised. I unearthed more facts detailing Campbell's safety and health re­quirements that exceed even those of the En­vironmental Protection Agency. 
Campbell Soup Company, like so many other industries, has been boycotted simply because of its size and recognition. The at­tacks launched against the company by Notre Dame's FLOC supporters are unjustified, un­founded and unfair. Campbell has been a leader in improving migrant lives, and for its efforts is being boycotted. The question will be put to your student body very soon as to 
he freely decided to go. Since he decided that 
going would be to his advantage he most 
likely would internalize this behavior as good. 
On the other hand, if that same person was 
paid a large sum ofmoney (high inducement) 
to go, the attitude would not be internalized 
since he could tell himself, "I only went for 
the money." 
Divestment would bring about high 
economic pressures for the whites, who in 
turn might change their .policies yet would 
still feel hostility toward blacks. Notre Dame, 
as a Catholic university, should maintain its 
investments and try to create a low induce­
ment atmosphere both on apartheid and on 
the black community through these com­
panies. The low inducemnt should be a 
rationale for moving toward equality. Notre 
Dame's investments may very well help this 
low inducement work. 
The Sullivan code creates agreat deal ofdis­
sonance which in turn creates change. The 
dissonance theory states that attitude change 
can be achieved by causing one to engage in 
behavior that is discrepant with one's at­
titudes. Brehm, a social psychologist, showed 
that if we choose between two attractive al­
ternatives, our attitudes toward the rejected 
alternative will become more negative. 
The dissonance theory was used in the United States to fight racism. Social scientists, who evaluated how well this theory worked, ·found it to be effective. This theory creates inconsistency between a person or a group's attitudes and their actual behavior. If the be­havior was done under low inducement, then not even an excuse for the behavior could be made and thus the attitude would change. 
This new attitude would be internalized. 
An example of this appeared when the 
public schools were desegregated. A child, by 
law, had to go to school, yet the parents could 
send him to a private segregated school. Since 
Garry Trudeau 
the majority of the population could not af. ford a private school, children soon met with other children of a different color. Many of these students became friends with the colored students and if these children had been taught that all blacks were mean he would have to change his attitude since he was not forced to choose a black as a friend. 

The Sullivan code enforces desegregation and lobbies against all apartheid laws. Thus the Sullivan code has both low inducement and dissonance making the attitude change the greatest possible according to most social psychologists. These attitude changes will ob­viously take longer than if divestment were used but when these changes are done there will be no tension. A complete change must be made so that no racial tension exists be-. cause the whites cannot just leave like many other colonists have been able to do. South Africa is as much the whites' homeland as it is the blacks'. 
Another reason for an attitude change is 
that both the blacks and the whites want total 
control, thus either the blacks or the whites 
will be unp·rotected and unheard. The solu­
tion to South Africa's problems can theoreti­
cally be attained through selective divestment 
from those companies that do not follow the 
Sullivan codes. 

A selective divestment from those com­
panies not following the Sullivan codes 
provides a solution to the crisis because these 
codes bring about low inducement and dis­
sonance which social psychologists feel bring 
about the greatest attitude changes. Notre 
Dame, in its Catholic American tradition, 
ought to do to its neighbor, South Africa, as it 
had done unto itself. 

Randi Battistoni is in the Freshman Year ofStudies at Notre Dame. 



Quote of the day 

"Church members are either plllars or caterplllars. The plllars hold up the church; the caterpillars just crawl in and out." 
Mrs. Warner Phillips "WeeklyAdvertiser" 

------------~~ ------~------~---------------~--­
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------Th--ur_s_da_y_,J~a_n_u~---2-3,_I_9_8_6_-p~a_g_e_7__ 

The old game still exists under the alcohol policy 
It has been a year and a half since the ad· ministration ofthis University decided on and proclaimed a new alcohol policy which proscribed the numerous abuses of alcohol that many here had grown so fond of. 
Robert Anderson guest column 
That odious edict shook this University as only the greater movements of history can. Student fury and protest then were vented in the usual modes. The banners were unfurled. The editorials dashed off. Student government convened, its president presided, and its representatives and policymakers con­templated how to escape the punishments from an inclement administration. 
In solemn tones they proposed decorous retaliatory mea'!ures lO counter a so indelicate spanking. Initial outrage and clamor against what numbers viewed as a flagrant act of in· 
uMlce in the spirit of arbitrary executive 
1wer died out long ago. Peace, order and a 
eneral calm were restored again to our ·ampus. And once more the sun rose and set n turns a<·cordlng to accustomed fashion. 
Looking ba<:k we see that the results conse­ucnt on the new policy have been mixed. erhaps an indication ofone such result is an pparently increa'!Cd display of, to put it lainly, public drunkenness. On a typical 
·riday and Saturday night along common aths leading back to Notre Dame, you are apt 
o sec many ofthe mighty men and women of otre Dame mar<.·hing home to end a night of 1bscenities, and the like. Or the mornings er to see sprawled out here or there on a 
·ampus lawn, draped over a bench, or ropped up against a tree one of the mighty eroes in his triumphal sleep. 
Such thing.-; point to a further increase, or ·ertainly at least to no decrease, of idcspread and ingrained habits of alcohol huS<'. The old game carries on under the new y~tt·m. Though the particular fashions of xcess that existed under one system have hanged, their source hasn't. Remove one evil nd another, mayhe even worse, follows in its la<:e, with the prospect of things getting 
orse. In the fat·e of that, it seems fitting· by some 

t'l·konings, urgent -to put a piece of ancient isdom hefore the rea'i<mahle young men and omen who Notre Dame attracts, to ponder, 
·hould they he so inclined. Everyone, 
hatever they say, knows it well. Though one nay try to ignore it, pushing it a'iide and out of ight, or dismiss it, saying it doesn't matter, 1ver and over again it will keep coming to nind. Though some may claim they don't 
helieve it, a moment later you will find them going hack on what they just denied. 
That wisdom is simply this: "For any con· tentmcnt in this life a lot ofrestraint is going to he necessary." Wht·ther it he anger, fear, the sexual desire, the appetite for food, or that of alcohol, or whatever, each requires a good lkal of moderation if we are ever to become that kind of pt•ople we truly wish to be and to accomplish anything really worthwhile. Any pa.s.'iion, if let to run it'i course beyond reason and proper mea~ure, can make life wretched. 
Yet on the contrary, many here think, ifthey think about the matter at all, or at least act as though they thought, that drinking isn't wrong as long a'i it doesn't harm anyone else · a convenient and specious excuse whenever one wishes to drink without limit. 
Behind this widely-held idea is a babyish conception of human conduct that says not· hlng can be wrong unless it hurts another per· son. What a person does to himself is his own business. Is this the most mature and robust practical principle of moral reasoning stu· dents here can come up with? 
That morality deals with fair play between people, between ourselves and others, is ad· mitted readily. The rules of conduct here dictate that each apportion to others what is their due. When things go wrong here the evils usually are obvious, like war, treachery, selfishness, cruelty, and so forth. That people will ever be kind and helpful to one another, however, all the while with passions and reason, desires and sober judgment, conflict· ing, is on any conceivable view, nonsense. 
Good people make a good society. One can· not blithely pass along to the other without first the personal struggles and denials for self· mastery. It just doesn't happen. That people ever can find contentment and fulfillment apart_ from self-control is equally unreal. To gratify every urge and impulse leads to everything that is the reverse of real satisfac­tion. 
Now with respect to the use ofalcohol, how over-indulgence affects the person himself and those with whom he comes in contact is well-known: all the disgrace, degradation, shame, and so on, inflicted on himself, as weU as all the unjustice, bedevilment, and misery visited on friends, family, and others around him. And, like other appetites, the desire for intoxicating drink grows with indulgence, so that one wants it when without any and even after having had one's fill. 
Because human nature is blighted with crazy desires, infirmity of mind, and weakness of resolution, and because no one will get along well in this life if he surrenders to all desires, good habits are the indispensable means for disciplining oneself. And unless one has been encouraged to like what is right and dislike what Is wrong from the earliest age, it will be next to impossible to acquire good habits later in life. Such encouragement doesn't come easy nowadays. 
One reason is because the young by nature tend to incline toward pleasure. Not yet having learned to regulate their feelings, en­joyment is their ruling principle. They are careless in questions of conduct, annoyed at self-denial, ready to indulge their desires for pleasure, give way to feeling and do as they please. 
Another reason is because we live in an in· dulgent society, one growing more and more compliant to appetite. Restraint is effete, soft· ness manly. In addition, college students' situations are especially precarious, because they live in communities usually steeped in habits of excessive drinking. The strength of the herd works on the weakness of the in· dividual to lead by degrees to a common way oflife. 
As a result, ifwe are to be in touch with the realities of life, we need to recognize that people usually drink before they know what it is to drink with moderation, that they learn of that often only after having exceeded it, and that they are not seldom locked into patterns of excess before there has been opportunity to instill right habits. Perhaps one's native weakness and vulnerability to societal pressures can begin, in part, to be com· pensated for by reflecting on what one is doingwhen drinking and what can come ofit. 
Once upon a time, in this century in fact, alcohol was thought an intrinsically bad thing, or at least practically incapable of being enjoyed in moderation. When one sees how its use so readily sinks into abuse, the in· capacity of reason its use effects, and how the smallest excesses create incessant havoc, the reason for so stern a condemnation ofalcohol altogether is understandable. 
Still, teetotalism, an extreme in the reverse 
direction, is not obligatory or anything close. 
On many grounds it is wrong to think it is. The 
virtue of temperance does not require total 
abstinence unless you are the sort who cannot drink without inescapably doing so too much. It does not even demand that people always remain perfectly sober. Temperance ack· nowledges the place for the amenities of human life in our action, among which are in· eluded the pleasures and beneficial effects of alcohol consumption. But temperance does say that one should only go so far and not fur· ther, drinking in the right measure and not beyond. 
The interior moral quality of every person is his own responsibility. It cannot be ignored nor delegated for experts to handle. Nor can you coddle or coerce a person, unwilling or malingering, to virtue. Nothing could be less likely. For these reasons the doctrine of tem­perance is unpopular and will continue to be so. It would be unwise to expect things ot· herwise. 
But ifyou always evade the task ofmoderat-


Human life is precious no matter the situation 
Would you, if held in a foreign country at the mercy of a dictator, shoot one person to save the lives of nine other hostages who the dictator is intent on killing? If you agree to shoot the one, the dictator will set the othC"r nine free. Ifyou refuse, all ten die. 
joe Murphy 

here I stand 
This was the question Gary Gutting and John Moody asked my philosophy class fresh· man year. The class filled the Ubrary Auditorium, and almost all of the students stated they would kill the one to save the ot· hers. 
In answering the question, I proposed anot· her question, as a good philosopher should do. Suppose the next day the dictator takes you to a starving village and promises to feed halfofthe people ifyou will kill the other half. Ifyou do not act, they will all die ofstarvation anyway. Would you kill half of the people to save the other half? 
The only thing I really had changed was the numbers; the principle remained the same. Once one reduces human life to its benefit to the majority, where does one draw the line? 
I was fortunate to have learned the prin­ciple was important, and not the numbers; however, one man who has yet to learn this is three-term Governor Richard Lamm of Colorado. Among the Governor's comments over the years are the following: To the ter· minally ill, Lamm suggests, "We've got a duty to die and get out of the way .... I'd take the money we could save in reforming the health· care system and put it into restarting America's industrial system and in the educa· tion system." The governor compared the dying to "lea\·es falling off a tree and forming humus for other plants to grow up." 
To the parents of mentally handicapped children, Lamm has questioned spending thousands ofdollars per year to educate these children "when after four or five years all they do is roll over." 
More recently, Lamm said it was futile to spend money on AIDS patients who have no chance of recovery. Lamm said, "There are two types ofAIDS patients, either you're dying or you're dead." 
Using the governor's logic, one easily can rid the world ofsuch problems as poverty by telling poor people they have to duty to kill themselves because they are an economic burden to society. What Lamm has confused is ing drink now, if you never learn to drink by halves but only to your fill · convinced that this is a trifling worry and that you can handle your drinking whenever you wish, or that it doesn't matter in any case what you do to yourself. the habits of dissipation acquired here at college may leave you with an irreparably-skewed appetite and hence 'in· capable ofcontrolled drinking. 
Ifyou persist In those ways, a day Is destined to come, hopefully before all has gone to pieces and the burden ofmanaging your life Is forced on shoulders of the professional kind, when you discover the falsehood of such beliefs and realize you are on a course of dis· appointment and sorrow. 
A grim and fatalistic note to end on? Think It over. 
Robert Anderson is a graduate student in medieval studies at Notre Dame. 
that people do not exist for the economy's 
benefit. Instead, the economy exist for the 
people's benefit. 
The alternative to the quality oflife position 
held by Lamm is the traditional view that all 
life, no matter how great a burden to society, 
is a priceless commodity. 
My concern Is with social justice, and one 
cannot be concerned with social justice un· 
less one first cares about human life, In aU Its 
forms, regardless of Its usefulness or produc­
tivity. 
No one has a duty to die. No one has the 
right to kill. Everyone should have the right to 
life. 
This week we revived the dream of Martin Luther King Jr. and we mourned the millions ofunborn infants whose silent screams go un· heard. Our world is often unjust and prejudiced against those It deems unfit, un· healthy, old, defenseless or poor. 
The world cannot wait for the cause of SO· cialjustice to be picked up by another _Martin Luther King Jr. Instead, you and I must do what we can, where we are, to make a dif­
ference. ­
Pope John Paul II said, "When the sick, the aged or the dying are abandoned in loneliness, we will stand up and proclaim that they are worthy oflove, care and respect." 
Ifyou and I do not stand up for the cause of social justice, who will? 
joeMurphy is a juniorgovernmentand in· ternattonal relations major at Notre Dame and the Viewpoint editor at The Obsen1er. 

Viewpoint Policy 
• 
Commentaries in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appearing In The Observer and may not exceed 700 words. 

• 
The Observer encourages com­mentaries from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity. 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame.IN46556(219) 239-5303 
Manll{ling Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. Wiliam J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advettlsing Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager ....................Anne M. Culligan Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson admm1strat1on of e~ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennelf Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy available to ail members of lhe community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus, through leners. IS encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotf Founded November 3, 1966 



r---_-­
! -The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1986-page 8 
lh(• fJhst'rn·r '\tltrt· I>Jml· otfill· loldln.l on lhl· tlHn.t tlc1or ol l.Jiortun..· 
'lll<knt ( l'nll'f. Jn t·pt' tfJ"Ifinf Jth t•rt "In!( from<) J m Ulltli I p m \IOllUJ\ 
thruu~o:h I nuJ\ I he t Jhserr·••r ~Jmt \1Jn ·, otfit ,. lotJtnl on thl' thlfu tloor of 
IIJI(I(Jr ( ollt'l(t' ( t'ntt"r. Jn t·pt' dJ"Ifil'u' from I 2 \0 p m unul \ p m \Ion 
dJ\ thoUI(h l'ndJ\ llt'Jdhrlt' lor nt·xHIJ\ tiJ'"finh " \ p m .-\II dJ,,Ifku' 
mu't ht· prt·pJ•d t·nh.-r 111 pt·r"•n or h\ 111.111 ( hJrl(t·" 10 ,,·nt-p.-r ll\t·t hJrJt






Classifieds 
t.-r' l'f t!J\ 
MIKE SHIELDS IS A MADMAN! HI.ERNATION WIU .EGIN
LOST: A thick, chain-linked gokf brtlcelet Apt. for rent. C.mpua View!!! Femal• -SUPER•EAR MONDAY.
with a farVe ciUp. It wu loll Friday, nonamoker. CaM Ellen 1312. 
NOTICES January 17th. It hu incredible aentimen-PERSONALS WANTED:
181 value and cannot be replaced. II you have any Information, pleue cal Karen at 
HAT AND TIE IS COMING!!!! Details next Peraon of good writing llbihly and ex week... lenttute. The Accent 118ction of TIM Typing Available 1884. Thank you. WANTED ...H;;;«i~·i;;~·iigi;i.'i'i.i~·:,;;;;rld·... ,next to ....,. ia looking for someone 
287-4082 that Hght, the idH ofNvingand dying, it is 
Kevin biweel<ly revieW11 of South Bend's fiFOUNO:RED FLOWERED MAKE-UP 
simply ... i"elevant. 
"Mad Dog·' eat•ng eatal>lishments. S$ wiN
BAG IN HAYE5-HEALY RESTROOM. CALLX3885 Wanted: Girl Friday. Pert time legal Maddock 
provided. Contact Mary Healy at The S1D-$360 Weekly/Up MaiHng Clrcu'-nl -Richard Bach, 
server. 23~5313 for information. 
r-ch secretary Call ~2 WE WANT YOU 
No quota! TIM llrl.... Acta. Fcnv• LOST: Notre Dame Boxing -lrtleft
Sincerely intereated rullh Hll-8ddr..ed 
In H.-auditorium after Tueedey ni;hl
envelope: Succeea. POBox 470CDD, Frou ••• Putty ••. Frou THE MUSIC KING IS BACK!!!!!!! FIRSTfinal. If you picked It up, pi-cal ma at 
Woodelock, IL 60098. lt'a not juata job,lt'a an adventure. DeNver THE BEACH PARTY, THEN THE DESPERATELY NEED 2 QA'S OR 2272-4287 and let me know. lt'l not mine 
the Obeerver! Spota now open for HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ... ACCEPT 
FRESHMAN DANCE NOW. YOU CAN STUDENT TICKETS TO IIIAROUETTE10 I really need It beck! Reward offered. 
TYPING everyday of the weal<. Good pay. Come Tj;tE CHALLENGE PARTY TO THE MUSIC OF ALEX KING GAIIE!t llllaH, CATHOLIC, COM­CALLCHIQ up to the Obeerver and fill out an applica· One year poatgradUate work. Develop AGAIN THII FNDAY, JAN.24 FIIOII IIIODillU .ROKER WAS DENED THE
LOST: Gold herringbone bracelet with tri I::IOP.M.· t:aciAM AT THE ALUMNI CHANCE TO GO TO ND; THEREFORE, 234-8117. tion, or call Mark Potter at283-2450. your faith and diacern your prioritiea. AP­
attached. REWARD!!!!! cal Jackie at 2286. 
color gokf roae PLICATION DEADLINE: Friday, Jan.31. 
SENIOR CLU.II NO 21 I.D. REQUIRED HE WIU PLAY HANDIOIIELYI CALL
P1n0n to llhare houu in realdential Mary Ann Roemer.7949. 
EVERYONE WELCOME!!!!!! KATHLEEN 2114-IIDSI THANKSIAttention: StuChnlll neighborhood near campua. Ap­EVERYONE WELCOME!!!!!!!!!!!
LC*T : THE NAME OF THE Pa.oN EVERYONE WELCOME!!IIII!I!!!! 0 21 DAN GARRETT AND ANTHONY
DolotM FIW1CI• proxlmutely $150/mo utiHtiea Included. FREE FACIALS AND MAKEOVERS 
WHO HIT MY CAJII ON TAYLOR 
ITftEET ON THE NIGHT .EFORE
Typi......IM Call Mike 231H861 or 232-0841. Held In your own residence. CaM Julie at 1.0. REQUIRED EUGENI-THE FOOIIIIALL FEEMhM. piiOM cNnte 234-7835 
CHIUTIIAS UIEAK. IT WAS A DAJIIK
277-11J1 Babyaitter needed In my home for one 10 ProfeUional Beauty Conlullant 
IILUE DAqt!N AND DIDN'T THINK IT I NEED TO BUY OR BORROW A 
year old boy. Any 3 week-day afternoona 
WAS ltAD AT THE TIME, IIUT IT THEMES AND VARIATIONS FRENCH 
from 2:30-6:00. N-Scotbldate Mall. Call 

NEEDS SOliE REPAIR. CALL MIKE AT BOOK (3RD ED) CALL ANDREA Jt3847 NoiM magazine iuue number 2 comes
Mra. Rowan, 284-4587 before 5pm; 233-OAJII HOUSE: COLD .EER & UOUOR. 
out Friday at lunch. Look for thia brilliant 
272-11101. 
8457 after 6pm. CAJIIIIY OUT TO aA.M. U.S. 11 N., 1 
E. GINA LEE piece of rock history and Mvor your copy IILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
of Lewia Hall while you can! To order the next 6 iaauea We can make it aH work out If we want if to! ol thil, ND/SMC's only alternative mu.;c
DO YOU EAT LUNCH HOOP HYSTERIA T-atll~ Someone from Howard... newsletter, write to: Pat B.. 224 Alumni. 
IN THE NORTH DINING HALL? Support Logen Center and the baat<etball 
FOR SALE Subecriptions are $3 off campul, only $1 
DID YOU TAKE team! 
on campua. Thank you and have a good
LOST/FOUND I 
MY BLUE NOTRE DAME BINDER BY Long and ahorl ateves Ale you a petite, auburn-haired SMC who lunch.
MISTAKE? Stop by Room 221 Stanford 
anawera to "Sue"? I met you at the flrat IT HAS MY CLASS ADD SLIP IN IT, AND Need a GOOD USED ELECTRIC or call 2089/2078 for delivery football game. and miued you at the reel. THE AERIE Wllhea To Thank All Thoae LOST Gold ring with initi ... ML engraved WHATEVER ELSE. PLEASE CALL TYPEWRITER? Let's make a deal--call Call me at 1803. Who M-Saturday Such A Succeaa. 
on the face. It ia of immeaau-..,.. MATT PATliiCC*KI AT 232~97 OR Sharon at2762 for exciting detaill. 
Congratulations To Thoae Who Survived timental value, and a generous reward wiM BRING IT TO THE LOST&FOUND IN The literary world tremblee in it'a boots! The FULL 8 HOURS! A Special Thankabe offered II found. If you have any in­THE ADMIN BUILDING THANX JVC portable atereo with CMMtte player. Hungry? CaM Yellow Submarine at 272­Pat and Mary are now working together at To The Comer Six For Their Hoapitalityformation regarding thia ring, p1eeH con­Sounds great! $175. CaM Paul at 283-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am Mon· the Observer on Tuesday nights! And To Our Favorite Eaglell From SMC. 
lac! Maria at215 Fertey, 4053. 2107. Thura; 5pm-2am Friday, 3pm·1am Sat; Stay Tuned To Thia Bat Channel For Ad­WOMENS SWATCH WATCH FOUND IN 4pm-10pm Sun. 
WVFI WVFI WVFI THE VOICE OF THE vanced Warning Of The Next Neat War·LOST: ONE PAIR OF GRAY WOOL FRONT OF O'SHAG. CALL 1854 Looking for an (almoat) new HOT AIR FIGHTING IRISH IS BACKI!IIIIIII!!I! 64 on ming.
GLOVES IN O'SHAG. PLEASE CALL POPCORN POPPER, by any chance? I SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­your am dial from 7 am to 1 am. The best 288-4753. IT'S BEEN VERY COLO WIT­FOUNO ..... ONE SET OF HOOPS TIX AT juat happen to have one that! MUST sell. plications deadline is February 3. More music. WFVI!II!II! Love, the stick, electricHOUT THEM. O'SHAG ON TUES. NIGHT CALL Call2762. info at Center for Social Concerna. 
voice of the eightiee-7to 9 am Fridays, 3-5 
BEAVER AT 234-2275 WITH LOCATION Ufe 11 ree/ly wonderful. 
pm Sundays. 
THE NOTRE DAME FINACE CLUB IS -Koleki LOST HELP (ltil)ll My HP-15C-you HAVING A MEETING THURSDAY, JAN 
Thank you St Jude for intentione granted 
remember, the oneloet In the Math Build­Were you ahooting hoopa In Stepan on 23 IN 122 HAYE$-HEALY. ALL NEW Ing before Chriatmu 1aat umeater, ia Wed. 1 /15? float my black watch (a Clllio TICKETS AND OLD MEMBERS ARE INVITED. 
'79 MAZDA
STILL miMing!! And, you know kidl, cheapie but it'a the only one I have) bet­THE CHICAGO TRIP AND OTHER Hello you Ron..-woman.
RX7;AM/FM/TAPE,SUNROOF,GREAT10meone out there mull be feeling reelly ween8:00and 9:00.1fyoufoundit, pleue EVENTS WILL BE DISCUSSED. 
SHAPE,BRONZE W/BLACK INT. 5­reelly guilty about II. Jull take a moment call m•Kevln 1750. Thanks. WANTED 2 GA'S TO MARQUETTE SPEED,SERIOUS INQUIRIES 
now, u you read thll, to chect< thoae GAME CALL BILL X2161 Do you like to take picturea? Do you want HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIG BROTHER
ONLY,PLEASE.4,500.CALL 1946 OR
around you and -juat how guilty THEY to put your finger on the pulle of the RON! 21 yeara aure IOUnda old! Love,
232-4928
lnnlc, and If you rect<on they might have Oeeperately Seeking 2 Marquette buket­campua? Do you have eJIP8rience in Ace, Gua. AI, and Bllbycakea my precloua calculator, tel them to take it balf tickets. Pleue call Jim at1609. Blacl< and White film proceulng? Do you 
JIM MCMAHON FOR UMOCI 

FOR RENT

to loet, .& found on the 2nd floor of own a 35mm camera and need extra A BCAF FASHION SHOW SPECIAL! A LaFortune FAST. P..,..._l am Marting to I NEED 2 UTAH (YES UTAH!) TIX. money? If you anawered yea to any of UNIQUE PRESENTATION! A LONG loee aM faith in mankind .... PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 2706 IF YOU theae queationa you redy want to AWAITED PERFORMANCE! LOOK Semi-fumillhed houu in good neighbor­HAVE A PAIR FOR SALE. become a member of the elite OBSER· The only perlect '1 o· on campua -The SHAJIIP ... DREU SHARP ... FEMALE LOST: One Gold Chain Bracelet! LOST: hood 255-3684t2n·3604 •••••••••••••··~•··························•·•·•••••L•••••••••·· VER Photo Staff. WE NEED 10th Annual KEENAN REVUE February MODEL TRYOUTS: TUES. JAN, 28TH, At Sr. Bar, parking lot In front, or 02. I need 2 buketball tickets, either GA or PHOTOORAHERS in a really bad way. 6,7,8 6:00PM MALE AND FEMALE FINAL LOST: If found, piMH calf 2710 LOST: Need femalel to aubleue apt. January student. for either the Marquette game on There are scheduled and freelance pOll· CUTS: FRI, JAN, 31ST, 6:00PM AP· Great Sentimental Vllluellll rent already paid. Call Shirley 234-664 7 Fab.1 or the Dayton game on March 8. lions available. Apply at the Obeerver SMC/NO SENIORS Happy New Year' PLICATION$ CAN BE PICKED UP AT or Maureen 283-2612. Call Mike at283-1643. Office, third floor LaForlune. Poet New Year' a Eve Party Jan, 25, 1986 227 LEWIS(TONI'S) BEGINNING WED, FOUND: Set of keya Thurwdlly in Hurtey ~tam Haggar College Center $2.00 at JAN 22, 10:00PM-12:00AM AND· 
109. Two GM keya on ring. Cal Dave at One Female Roommate needed -NO I NEED 3-4 TICKETS TO THE MAR· THE CHICAGO BEARS WILL BE SHUF­door. 21 id required to drink. ThOle under RETURNED SUN, JAN 26 ALL DAY. AP­272~93. Apbl. -dOle to campua and inexpaneive. OUETTE GAME, G.A. OR STUDENT FLING OFF TO BUFFALO AFTER SUN­21 welcome Umlted apace eo come early. PLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP 
If lntereated call Sharon at3484. TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 2001 DAYI"BERRY" THE BEARS! SIGNED, A AT 117 B.P.(LISA'S) BEGINNING WED, found: 181 of dorm keyaln hagar aud. the REAL FAN, A PATRIOTS FANIIIII!IIIII JAN, 22, 8:00PM-10:00PM /<NO day before breal< (five on a chain) call Ed N.D. Ave. Apt. for rent -If lntereated caN I need up to 4 Marquette tickets/ Cell My prediction for the Bean?-1!'1 Molly McCarthy'a 19th Birthday Give RETURNED THROUGH THURS. JAN 4384. Shirley at 234-664 7 Maryat2865 HIBERNATION her a caN and wiah her well! 23 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Judo Club will hold a meeting Sunday at 2 
p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone in­terested is welcome to attend. No experience is necessary. For more information call Sara Harty at 283-3352.-Tbe Obseroer 
Bookstore BasketballXV commissioner applica­tions are now available at the main desk in the student government offices on the second .floor of LaFortune. Any sophomore is eligible to be this year's commissioner. All applications must be returned tomorrow by 5 p.m., and an interview time should be arranged at that time. -Tbe Obseroer 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or staff members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.-Tbe Ob­
seroer 

The ND Kung Fu Club will hold its first meeting of the semester tomorrow at 6 p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Techniques from the Northern Sil Lum Dragon style will be taught. Anyone interested is welcome. to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call David Scott at 283-1 766. -The Obseroer 
The ND Squash Club will be meeting this semester at the ACC courts every Monday from 7-9 p.m., Thursday from 4­
6:30 p.m. and Saturday from 3-5 p.m. All members are encouraged to attend every meeting. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451.-Tbe Obseroer 
The ND Tae Kwan Do Club will be accepting 
new members until Thursday,Jan. 30. Classes will meet regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. Bring workout clothes for practice. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440. -Tbe Obseroer 
Irish
·

~.­
A free Big Gulp, courtesy ofthe 7-11 stores, for anyone who attends the women's basketball game tonight against Loyola. ­
The Obseroer 

'WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast tonight's ND-LOyola women's basketball game. Frank Mastro and Michael Hug will serve as commentators and broadcast time for the game is 7:20 p.m. -Tbe Observer 
Interhall hockey teams may now register to practice on the ACC ice rink. A limit ofone hour per week per team will be imposed and the fee will be S50 per hour. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll at 239-5247.-Tbe Obseroer 
NVA stretchercise, a toning, stretching, and light ex­ercise to music will begin tomorrow in Gym 2 of the ACC. Classes will be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 5:10p.m. to 6 p.m. Anyone interested may register at the first session. For more in­formation call NVA. -The Obseroer 
An NVA cross-country ski clinic for begin­
ning and intermediate skiers will be held Sunday at 1 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Cost is S4 for people with skis and S6 for those who need to rent skis. Anyone interested should sign up by tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Obseroer 
A Schick SMC basketball tourney. for three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. 5. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned byjan. 
29. No present or former varsity basketball players may participate. The winning team will go to regional play with the championship game being held in an NBA arena. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Obseroer 
continuedfrom page 12 

skills and she has the shot. Sandy has just got to go to the ball with con­fidence and move to the basket with confidence." 
Questionable for tonight's contest is freshman guard Lisa Kuhns, who suffered an injury to her right foot in last weekend's game against Detroit. Kuhns is being evaluated on a day­to-day basis. 
Tip-off tonight is at 7:30 at the ACC, and students are admitted free ofcharge upon presentation ofa cur­rent ID card. 
McMahon is ready to play despite injury 
A88oclatcd Press 

NEW ORLEANS-Chicago quarter­back Jim McMahon got his acupuncturist Wednesday. And, his sore buttocks reportedly improved, seemed set to play in Sunday's Super Bowl. 
After sitting out much of Tues­day's practice, McMahon was treated before Wednesday's session by acupuncturist Hiroshi Shiriashi, after the team's management acceded to his request to have him flown in from Chicago. 
Then, wearing a headband with "acupuncture" written on it, the ir­reverent Me Mahon took most ofthe snaps on the Bears' first two series at practice. 
The Observer Thurs_9~v. January 23, 1986-page 9 

Off Campus and Alumni dominate in interhall hockey action at ACC 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 

Tuesday night at the ACC produced two mismatches, as both Off-Campus and Alumni posted easy wins in interhall hockey action. Off­Campus, the defending league champions, had no trouble whip­ping Flanner, 9-0, while Alumni downed Fisher, 10-2. 
In its first game of the season, Off­Campus showed why it is league champion as it created and con­verted scoring opportunities from the starting to the final minute. 
Captain Ed Sullivan, Pat Collins, and Chris Almon each accounted for two goals apiece. "This trio of Sul­livan. Collins, and Almon should be a very productive unit for us throug­hout the rest of the season," said co­coach Dave Herlihy. 
In addition, Scott Johnston, Nick Stock, and Tom Unger were each credited with a goal. 
Co-coach Mike Dudas feels that the key to his team's success Is that his players play with great intensity and desire. That was quite evident throughout the match. 
"We were obviously pleased with our team's performance tonight, but we won't feel satisfied until we win the whole thing in the end," said co­coach Kevin O'Shea. 
If this game was any indication of what is to come, look for Off­Campus to reign as inter-hall cham­pion again. Flanner is now 0-2. 
However, Alumni may have something to say about Off. Campus visions of the league title. For the second time In as many games, Alumni used its opposition for target practice. 
This time the victim was Fisher (0-2), as Alumni stormed by, pasting its opponent, 10-2. Alumni, In Its two matches, has outscored its rivals by a 22-5 margin. 
Doing the damage was captain John Kaltenmark, who had the hat trick. Jim Vizzini and Steve Vairo both scored two goals apiece. "The team is playing well, but we still haven't faced our toughest competi­tion,'' said Kaltenmark. 
In Monday night action, Dillon upped Its record to ( 1-1 ) by virtue of its 1·0 victory over Hoi y Cross/St. Ed's ( 1-1 ). Keenan ( 1-1 ) won Its first game by skating past Stanford (0-2) by a 4-1 score. 


Forfeits and withdrawals delay the start of women's inter hall season 
Dtlke'sjay Bilas (21) blocks the shot ofNorth Carolina's Warren Martin during last Saturday's Atlantic Coast Conference game. Notre Dame wtll face both these top-ranked teams this season, the first being North Carolina Sunday. 
TIM llotc SIJI, WOWIll 
PRICES GOOD THRU 1-25-86
AFREE CliiEU &LOW, LOW PRICES 
BE SURE TO REGISTER TO WIN AFREE ... 
• 1st Prize  • OR ONE OF  
KONICA  • 5PORTRAIT CLUB MEMBERSHIPS  
TOMATO  • 10 FREE FILM DEVELOPMENTS  
35mm CAMERA  • 15 ROLLS 35mm 36 EXP. PRINT FILM  

DROP OFF YOUR ENTRY FORM AT PICK-A-PHOTO 


By KATHLEEN MCKERNAN 
Sports Writer 

"Things are just geuing under­way,'' Walsh's captain Claire Welsh said of her team, but those words could very well describe the situa· tion of all the women's interhall bas­ketball teams. 
Forfeits, team withdrawals, and most recently, game cancellations have characterized the young season for many of the teams. 
At this point Badin tops the stand­ings with a record of 1-0 after defeat­ing Farley "B." Pasquerilla West is 0-l with a loss to rival PE. The remaining teams are all even at 1-1, but those records are misleading. 
When the Breen-Phillips "B" team withdrew, Lyons and Walsh both gained wins by forfeit. Lyons' loss was also on a forfeit to Farley "B." 
This weekend's games have all been cancelled. Scheduling placed the games in confiict with the men's varsity game against North Carolina. 
"So far It's been a good season (for the team). We have a lot of people who have not come out before," said Badin captain Maureen Connelly. Badin defeated Farley "B" 32-8. 
In one aspect, It was not a bad loss for Farley. "We call ourselves 'St. }udes,' after the patron saint ofhope­less causes," captain Barbara Grant revealed. "We have three team goals: to break double figures, to keep the opponent out of triple figures and to do something interest­ing each game." 
The defen4ing champions, PE, defeated PW but lost to Lewis "B." Captain Colleen Donnelly was somewhat surprised at the loss. 
"We have a better team than last year." she said. "We really haven't gouen offto a good stan. We need to get a little more organized, but whatever happens, happens." 
"We have a real young team, a quick team," said Lewis captain Teresa Buliavac. With Ellen Mouch and Katie Cavanaugh leading the backcourt attack, Lewis surprised Farley's "A" team. 
"We were leading Lewis at the half," Farley's captain Marllu AI· meida recounted. "We had choked a little -but they are a great team (and), they came back and beat us." 
Farley"A," always a strong team, Is looking ahead to the remaining schedule. Depth promises to be a factor in Farley's successes. "We have a well-rounded team," Almei<ja remarked. "We have a lot of people who can start." 
The full interhall schedule will be played next week. 


r--------------------------------------------1 
I I I I I I I I 
1 State _ Zip 1 
I 

I ---------------------1 I U.II-SJ l. Do you own a camera? YES NO I 11
iCUCI.:::::" 3Snvn Dioc 110 126 _ _ i 
~-----------------------~------------~-------J 
COOLER
I 
$29~,. 
MOLSON 
GOLDEN BEER orALE 



$299612 
MRS  
200 N. MAIN ELKHART 295-t310  UNIVERSITY CENTER MISHAWAKA 277·7176  254 DIXIEWAY NORTH ROSELAND 272·2522  

1910 LINCOLNWAY EAST BELLEVILLE SHOPPING SOUTH IIEND CENTER 233-1.30 SOUTH BEND 
233-1936 
1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND 
233-4603 
2934 E. McKINLEY SOUTH BEND 
233-9466" 

American 
continuedfrom page 12 
No one wanted to win the game more than Tapscou, but he was somewhat pleased after the game as his team played much beuer than many fans exxpected. 
"I have three things to say about the game today: first of all, Notre Dame is a very good team and they know how to execute. Secondly, I also think that we played a good game against such a good team. 
Finally, I was disappointed with the officiating tonight," Tapscott stated. 
"Notre Dame is terrific when they run, and we wanted to stop that," he continued. "We tried to tempo the game because they are such a great running team. We are a guard oriented-dominated team, and that's the strength we tried to focus on tonight." 
On a day when the Irish didn't concentrate and played poorly, it was surprising they could pull off the victory. Notre Dame only shot .700 from the free throw line and 




lC SKI SALE 
ONCE A YEAR YOU 
CAN PURCHASE AT RETAIL SELECT 
ROSSIGNOL, K-2 
DYNASTAR AND ELAN 
SKIS, AND FOR 1' 
WE WILL GIVE YOU A 
PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A 
PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 
THE 1t SKI SALE, 
DESIGNED FOR BEGINNERS AND INTERMEDIATES NOW GOING ONI 
.460 from the floor, both of which 
are far below the team's season 
average. 
Also, for the first time all year the 
Irish were outrebounded, as the 
Eagles grabbed 3 7 misses to 34 for 
Notre Dame. Finally, leading scorer 
David Rivers only managed two field 
goals on 11 attempts and scored 1 0 
points under his average of 18.1. 
One bright spot for the Irish was the play of forward Sean Connor. The 6-7 freshman played nine minutes In the first half and made aU three of his long range attempts to lift the Irish when they were strug­gling. 
"1 wanted to give Sean Connor a look because he's worked very hard In practice and it will give him some confidence,'' Phelps commented. "I talked about It with the other coaches and we think he is ready to step In and make a contribution, as he did tonight In the first half." 
Despite lacking much game ex· perlence, Connor was ready and able to give his team needed outside shooting. 
"I feel pretty good because this Is the first time I've played In quality time during the first half," Connor added. "The other guys did an excel­lent job of setting screens and reversing the ball quickly. 1 had the easy job because I just had to catch the ball and shoot it." 
After defeating UCLA, most Irish fans looked past games with Hofstra and American, and on to North Carolina. Despite this, the Irish played well enough to gain victories In both contests and head Into their game with the Tarheels with a 12-2 record. 
In order to pull off the major up­set, however, Notre Dame will have to play much smarter and con· centrate more than they did against American yesterday. 

The Observer Thursday, January 23, 1986-page 10 
Irish track starts successfully with middle distance crew posting gains 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Everything is right on schedule according to Head Coach joe Piane for the Notre Dame indoor track team. The Irish ran solidly last weekend in their first meet ofthe '86 season, the Michigan Relays, and are looking to do well in Saturday's Wes­tern Michigan Relays, another non­scoring meet. 
Piane is pleased with with the progresssion of many of his runners so early in the season. These two non-scoring meets provide an op­portunity for Piane and the Irish run­ners to experiment a little in preparation for the more com­petitive upcoming meets. 
"We are getting ready for the Mid­western Collegiate Conference Championships here on Feb. 1. Some of the guys are coming along very well. I'm enthusiastic about the season," said Piane. 
The two top finishers for Notre Dame at the Michigan meet, which was comprised of schools from the Big Ten and Mid-American Con­ference, were senior Jim Tyler and junior Robert Nobles. Tyler finished third in the 1000 meter run and Nobles also took third in the 600 meter dash with an excellent time of 
1:1 0.88. Piane was especially happy and also a little surprised by Nobles' performance. 
"Nobles' had a hell of a time. I'm surprised in the respect that I did not expect it so soon, the first meet out. That time would be good anywhere in the country," ex­plained the head coach. 
Notre Dame had four runners qualify for the IC4A Championships. In addition to Tyler and Nobles, sop­homore Tony Ragunas in the 60 meter dash and senior co-captain john McNelis in the 800 meter run both earned a spot in the champion­ships later in the season. 

The other co-captain, senior Joel Autry also performed well in the long and triple jumps as did sop­homore Rick Muench. Piane was also pleased with the run of fresh­man, David Warth in the 1000. 
This weekend the Irish travel to Kalamazoo, Mich., for the Western Michigan Relays. Piane wants to con­centrate on getting his 2-mile relay team of Tyler, McNelis, junior jeff Van Wie and Nobles prepared. 
"Middle distance is the strongest part of our team. We'll be working on getting those four coordinated and ready," said Piane They're train­ing hard to achieve their main ob­jective, to make the National Championships. 

Johnson sets a school record early to continue the team improvement 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
A week into her first season as a Notre Dame swimmer, freshman Tracy johnson shattered the women's varsity 50-yard freestyle record to establish herself as the premier Notre Dame sprinter. But the best may be yet to come. 
"She is a very talented swimmer, we are just beginning to learn the extent of her abilities" says Notre Dame swim coach Tim Welsh, "Tracy is a tall girl who is learning to take advantage of her size. As the season progresses, she is getting tougher and tougher in the close races." 
Currently, johnson's forte is the 50-yard freestyle where her time of 
24.98 seconds at Bowling Green on Dec. 12 set a new varsity record. Welsh said he has nothing but praise for his outstanding freshman swim­mer. 
"She is a winner," he says. "Mild mannered about her skills and a great competitor, she likes the chal­lenging positions. From the frrst time I saw her in the pool, I knewshe had a great deal ofpure talent." 
For the future, Welsh said he is looking for johnson to become a better distance swimmer. 
"In the future, hopefully, she will expand her talents, paticularly in the 200-yard freestyle," Welsh says. "Stamina will have something to do with it." 
A problem with that goal, as Welsh explains, is johnson's limited experience in the 200 meter event, which he calls "the most sophist­icated race in swimming." 
"For her to improve, Tracy will have to be given the opportunity to swim the 200-yard freestyle," he ex­plains. "Unfortunately, thus far we have had tough meets and have been forced to go with our strengths so she has not had a shot at the distance race." 
johnson is from Farmington, Mich., and graduated from Mercy High School where she was named all-conference four straight years. 
In her high school career, she was a member of four consecutive un­defeated teams. The lack of im­mediate success experienced thus far this year, however, has not been that frustrating for her. 
"We have trained, and we're prac­ticing very hard," johnson says. "As long as we continue to do our best, success will come our way." 
johnson also said that her teammates have been a great help to her this season. "Having the talented and motivated teammates which we have here at Notre Dame has really pushed me to be a better swimmer," she says. "I'm really pleased to be a member of such a quality. team as this." 

johnson said she already ac­complished one of her goals for the year, but she intends to keep working to become an even better swimmer. 
"At the start of the year, I wanted to break the 50-yard freestyle," she says. "With experience and con­tinued support from Coach Welsh I hope to keep improving my times to lower the team's overall (times). 
"Coach Welsh has placed an equal emphasis on strength, style and technique. He takes time out to work with me, particularly my starts. I can feel a real improvement from this help which is evidenced by my race times dropping. 
"As a team, I hope that we can win the rest of our meets and win the North Star and Midwest champion­ships." 
The men's and women's squads will travel East this weekend to take on St. John's on Friday and Fordham on Saturday. 
"It's possible to win both of these meets," says Welsh. "We must be prepared to race when the gun goes off. St. John's is the faster of the two schools. We'll have (to work) to win it, but that's the way we like it." 
~-­

Notre Dame runner Robert Nobles, pictured above, ran an im­pressive time of 1:10.88 in the 600 meter run at the Michigan Relays last weekend. Nobles and the other middle distace men are preparing for the two mile relay at the Western Michigan Relays this weekend. 

Queen's Castle 

&The Knights 

$5 
student $8.50 cumnlete cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women included too! 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minutes ... Not Hours .lm!lwQQd & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 



EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'ILUlE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
' 

Fencing 
continued/rom page 12 national champion is Notre Dame's oV~m Molly Sullivan who has been fencing for 1 0 years. "Saint Mary's meets them (the Irish) on a regular basis and it's a credit to them," says DeCicco. "They (the Belles) are good fen­cers." So, how does a student get in­terested in a sport like fencing if they've never tried it before? DeCicco thinks it depends on the in­dividual. "We have an open house at the start of the year," he says. "We tell them they don't have to know the sport as long as they want to work hard. And Saint Mary's has been very active over the years. 
"It's not all winning medals. It's a lot offun. It's doing something in the name of your school that you might not otherwise get a chance to do. That's the whole secret." 
DeCiccoo echoes Proost's praise of the job Weeks has done with the novices. 
"We have a great coach in Mike Weeks," he says. "He's doing an out­standing job working with the 13 freshman. I think the interest is to his credit." 
The future looks bright for the 
Saint Mary's program, which appears to be making a name for itself. A high school prospect with two or three years offencingexperience has writ­ten DeCicco expressing interest in attending Saint Mary's. DeCicco, who has been with the Saint Mary's team since its inception as the first women's fencing team in the area, says he will do everything he can to get her here. 
I'd love to have her here and pos­sibly rally the program around her," says DeCicco. "It's a beautiful tie (between the two schools). It would be great to have someone like th. 

here." 
The Belles will only be at the ACC for one meet this season, so if you want to catch a glimpse of Saint Mary's fastest-growing team, which presently consists of six varsity fen­cers, you'll have to wait until February 1. 
The Belles' team record is 1-2 after their semester break trip to the University of North Carolina They will be heading to Chicago this weekend for meets with Wisconsin, Minnesota and Chicago University. 

~{umnt­~Senie?r [fu6 \ :fptctatS: 1· 
Thursday Night: 
ce~~~[p)~~~ ~[E[L~[EY ~~C9lOOY 


r---------------------------..,...._----~­







Toda 

.......m County 
He H€111?17 liN WI.ON€0U~ REPrJf?T Wf./111 1Htrr 1711/Ne Jf/WY€1{ Hflff'€N€17 1 f./1117 MfiM.Ifll. H&'$ HIIP II 1fi?K16l€ f/HOCK. 
I 


I WAS c)()5T THINKING• WHV 
CAN'r Wt f"'L'( SO<JTH LIKE: AU OF Tli~ OTHER t:U:IoS? 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1  -Sea scrolls  
5 Lend­ 
(listen)  
10 Oppressor  
14 Advantage  
15 Dance In Bahia  
16 High home  
17 Hardtack  
19 Miracle  
village  
20 Underwriter  
21 Photography  
Inventor  
23 Nostrils  
25 Uncles: Sp.  
26 Creel  
29 Table wines  
32 S·shaped  
molding  
33 Ell  
35 Carnow  
obsolete  
37 Principal  
roles  
39 Fleming  
40 Use up 42 Part of a chair  !C) 1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved  
43 Slip away  
46 Air. lox  4 Exposed as  
47 N. M. city  sham  
49 Br. taxes  5 Maintains  
51  Rougeet­ 6 Inner layer  
52 Roomsln  of shell  
Allcante  7 Big bird  
54 Conn. city  8 Nichols hero  
57 Day  9 Drum roll  
61 Scrooglan  10 Tlc·­ 
words  11  Dressmaker  
62 Sometime  12 Wild bullalo  
letter closer  of India  
64 "Baked In-"  13 Robert or  
65 Farmerln  Irene  
the spring  18 Dies­ 
66 Lessen the  22 Kings  
pressure  24 Predicaments  
67 Buglecall  26 Hurling weapon  
68 Baxter and Bancroft  27 Ripening factors  41  Sections of  55 Leather type  
69 Large planes  28 Nautical skill  writing  56 Long period  
30 City In Brazil  44 Gr.clty  58 "As ­ going  
DOWN 1 Lover of Lucy 2 Paradise  31 Logic 34 Parisian chanteuse  45 Bakery Items 48 Snares 50 Gat  to..." 59 German-born cartoonist  
3 Oriental  36 Lyric poetry  53 Formal avenue  60 Cancels out  
VIPs  38 Begin  54 Blind as­ 63 Cereal part  


Thursday, January 23, 1986-page 11 Berke Breathed The Far Side 

n-!ERE'S VICICXIS T~L-1.1/Nl:>S,. 
HUNnN47SEASoN5 ANt> 
PRECI'\TOR'r' AAI~LS Al.LOV Tf.IE' AX£. w~ lte GOT N:JNF: 
CF THArHfRE AT NOTRE C>AM~! SURf: IrS A. f!J/1 NlpP/1 AI T7ME5, 80r WEVe Nar A THI?EA.T' IN ill£ 
WORLt>! 


Campus 
•9:00 
A.M. -5:00 P.M. · Booksale, library Concourse, Sponsored by University libraries 

•11:30 
A.M.· 1:30 P.M.· Benefit Lunch, for the Vietnamese refugee family of South Bend, Center for Social Concerns Building, J3 

•1:00 
·4:00P.M.· SaintMary's Music Depart· ment Master Class, Guest: Brass Winds Quin· tet 

•4:00 
P.M.· Radladon laboratorySeminar, "Aspects of Modern Research In Infrared Spectroscopy," Prof. K. Narahari Rao, Ohio State University, Conference Theater Radia­tion Laboratory 

•4: 
15 P.M. · CMI Engineering Seminar, "The Safety and Reliability of Existing Structures," Dr. james T.P. Yao, Purdue Uni· versity, Room 303 Cushing 

•6:00 
· 9:30 P.M. · Social Concerns Festival, Center for Social Concerns Building 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame BBQ Short Ribs Turkey Divan Eggs Florentine Chinese Hero 

TV Tonight 
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  College Basketball: Indiana vs.  
Purdue  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00P.M.  16  The Cosby Show  
28  ABC Movie Special: "Grease II"  
34  34 Front  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  
46  Ught for Uving  
9:00P.M.  16  Cheers  
34  Mystery: "The Moving Finger"  
46  LeseaAlive  
9:30P.M.  16  Night Court  

Belly button slipknots. 
•7,9 
& 11:00 P.M.· Movie, "The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai," Epglneering Auditorium, SAB, J l.50 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Notre Dame Finance Club, Room 122 Hayes-Healy 

•7:00 
P.M. · Presentation/Reception, for Business and Arts & Letters seniors Interested, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:30 
P.M. · Women's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Loyola, ACC Arena • 

•8:00 
& I0:30 P.M. -SAB FUm, "Cocoon," O'Laughlin Auditorium, J 1.50 

•8:00 
P.M. · Concert, by the Brass Winds Quintet ofthe Saint Mary's Music Department, little Theatre, Moreau Hall, 

•9:30 
P.M. -Junior Movie Night, "Fletch" and compact disc giveaway, South Dining 


Hall, Sponsored by Class of'87, J2 
Saint Mary's Roast Beef Au jus Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce Vegetarian Quiche Ruben Sandwich 
!O:OOP.M.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Heritage:  Civilization  
}C'WS  
46  Manna for Modern Man  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  Eyewitness Ncws  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
11:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  

:z:z Nlghtheat/"Mr. Sycamore" 28 ABC Ncws NiatJtllne 34 Star Trek 

ll:OOA.M. :ol8 Eye on Hollywood 
and the 

---~-----------------­
Thursday, january 23, 1986-page 12 


SRorts 
Notre Dame defeats American U. despite poor shooting performance 
By NICK SCHRANTZ halfhelped offset a lousy 7 for I 5 ef­Phelps commented. "We came out Sports Writer fon after the intermission. flat and didn't play well. When we Senior captain Ken Barlow led the don't shoot free throws well it 
With one eye looking ahead to Irish with IS points, including a fine shows that we're not concentrat­Sunday's matchup against top­5 for 8 shooting pedormance in the ing. ranked Nonh Carolina, the Notre second half to give his team an early "Eddie's (American coach Ed Dame basketball team played just lift coming out ofthe locker room. Tapscott) kid's always play hard," well enough to gain a 67-56 victory Classmate Jim Dolan added anot­Phelps continued. "We knew they over the scrappy team from her superb pedormance, as he would play well on offense, as they American University. tallied I2 points on four for five move well, have patience, and set 
The Irishonly led by a 32-26 score shootingfrom the floor and corraled solid screens. On the defensive side at halftime, before they began to a team leading seven rebounds. they were very harrassing, as they utilize their superior talent to pull In addition, the 6-8 forward tried to take away some things we away from an Eagle team that was slowed things down when the team like to do." more than ready to pull off a major was out ofcontrol and made several Eagle guard Frank Ross was the upset last night at the ACC. nice outlet passes that led to fast leading scorer in the game, as he 
In fact, were it not for the 25 per­break baskets when the Irish needed poured in I 0 baskets in 2I attempts sonal fouls committed by the the points. to put 23 points on the board. visitors the Irish would have been in The Irish could only manage a for a much closer ball game. Notre .460 shooting percentage for the American forward Eric White was Dame attempted 18 more foul shots game, but according to head coach the only other Eagle to score in than the Eagles, and convened on 11 Digger Phelps that was not the double figures, as he unexpectedly more to account for the final margin reason for his team's poor pedor-returned from a bout with high 
~ Obecf'Vf:r/Drew ' 
ofvictory. mance. blood pressure to give his team five 
American's Henry Hopkins (31) takes the jump shot over Irish
The Irish connected on 2I of 30 "We had no concentration on ofseven shooting for I 0 points. 
forwardjim Dolan (42) and center Tim Kempton in last night's
shots from the charity stripe, but a what we should be doing, and thus a 
game. Notre Dame managed a 67-56 victory despite their lack­
I4 for I 5 performance in the first lot of little things broke down," see AMERICAN, page 9 
lusterperformance. 


Women's basketball continues pla against tough rival Loyola tonight 
By MARlY STRASEN ference this season, coming into fensively and we can't just let 
Sports Writer tonight's game with a 9-3 record, run on us. 
winning both of their games against "If you stop that part of 
The time has arrived when Head conference opponents. According game, you take away 
Coach Mary· DiStanislao finds out to DiStanislao, Loyola always comes percentage shots from them. 
what her women's basketball team is ready to play. year, their margin of victory 
made of. "One thing I'm always impressed been set by their ability to use 
The Irish play host to Loyola (Ill.) with about Loyola is their consis­running attack." 
tonight in a game which marks the tency," she explains. "They work Leading the charge for Loyola 
first of six consecutive contests hard. They don't do alot of things, be Kathy Leyden, the 5-8 
against opponents from the North but they do what they do very well. guard who has led her team 
Star Conference. Notre Dame They shoot well and they move well scoring in each of the past 
dumped Detroit 72-58 in its first -with and without the ball. seasons and has established 
conference game, and canonly hope "They're not especially big up as one ofthe most excitingplayers 
to encounter the same success in its front," she continues, "but they are the Nonh Star conference. 
final I4 games of the season, I3 of very, very active under the boards. DiStanislao is extremely 
which are against Nonh Star rivals. We will only have (a rebounding with the play of 6-4 """'"""'" 
DlStanislao attests to the fact that edge) if we get good position. For Bunek since her return to the 
her team has entered the crucial the most part, though, we have the 
phase ofthe season, and realizes that size and the strength (advantage)." stress fracture in the team's 
the Irish are going to have to start Notre Dame certainly established opener against Michigan, and 
playing consistent basketball to an advantage over the Lady doctor says her playing time 
secure a bid to the NCAA tourna­Ramblers in both games last season, be limited. 
ment. out-bounding them by 16 in an 84-This thrusts 6-2 sophomore 
"The conference games are the 59 trouncing and by 15 in a 64-63 Botham into a scoring role in 
season for us," she says. "In the non­win over Loyola. The Irish expect middle, and DiStanislao has 
conference games you feather your Loyola to try to establish a running fidence in the center's ability 
nest. Now everygame is important." game early, and DiStanislao predicts come through as she did last 
The Irish have a long way to go_if her squad's success will depend with a 24-point effon in 
they hope to better last season's 20-upon its ability to stop the Ramblers Dame's 64-63 trimming of the 
8 record. After 14 games, they hold from rambling to the hoop for easy Ramblers. 
an 8-6 mark, identical to their record layups. "Sandy is up to it," she says. 
last year before they caught fire and "We have to cut down Loyola's only person who can stop her is 
grabbed 12 ofthe last I4 games. running game and challenge them self She has the size, she has 
The Lady Ramblers appear to be on both ends of the court," she says. 
one ofthe stronger teams in the con-"We'll have to pressure them of-see IRISH, page 8 
SMC fencing team is now growing bi stature 
What is the fastest-growing varsity spon on the Saint Mary's campus? If you guessed fencing you're probably either on the team or have a good friend who is. 
Many students know the team exists. But most don't know who the team members are, where they practice, when their season is, much less what the spon is all about. 
I, for one, have never. known the first thing about the sport, but the ironic thing is that the great majority of the current fencers never did either until they somehowfound themselves trying out for team. 
Senior captain Mary Beth Proost had never fenced before she came to Saint Mary's and has been with the team every year since, with the exception of her sophomore year abroad. 
"This year, "'CC have more girls in novice than ever before," says Proost. 
According to Proost, the most novices at once in the past were five and usually only a few stuck it out to remain with the team the next year. 
"We recruited 60 names at Activities Night this year and 

Kelly Portolese 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
30 came out," says Proost. The number has since leveled 
offto 13. ­· "They were scared at first, but they're really coming along," she says. "They're doing things I could never do in my (reshman year." 
Proost credits Belles' head coach Mike Weeks for the team's progress. 
"He spends a lot of tim,. with the freshmen," she says. "And he has put a lot ofeffon into helping them along." Proost. "They're the future ofthe-team." 
Another aspect that sets the fencers apan from other Saint Mary's varsity teams is that they train and travel with the Notre Dame men and women's teams. They also fence basically the same schedule, which provides some tough competition for the Belles. 
Notre Dame head coach Mike DeCicco says that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women formed a joint team in 1974 and won the first Great Lakes Championship in Detroit that year. 
And even though the schools have since formed seperate teams, it's been a continuing success story. 
"It's a unique thing that happens with the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's teams," says DeCicco. "There is a built-in rivalry between the women yet they are very close." 
Since Saint Mary's is an NAIA school, the Belles are often literally fencing out of their league with the Irish in the NCAA, but Proost sees the positive side of the affiliation between the two teams. 
"It's to our advantage that we practice with Notre Dame," says Proost. "We get more experience that way." That is easy to understand when you consider that the 
see FENCING, page 10 






