
-
-------------~ 
Killer bees -page 5 
VOL. XX, NO. 131 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Reagan Administration hails European actions on Libya 
Auoclaled Press series of raids early yesterday in agencies Monday, the president England, Wales and Scotland. The said the suggestions were ''that we 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan Home Office said they were look seriously together at real ma­administration yesterday hailed suspected of involvement in "stu­jor action" against Libya. Eurooean curbs on Libyan trade dent revolutionary activities" and 
Published reports have said Am­

and diplomatic personnel and the ar­would be expelled from the country 
bassador Vernon Walters brought 

rest of 21 Libyans in Britain but as a matter of national security. 
such a message from Mitterand. 

said additional steps must be taken In addition, 12 European nations 
Walters was in Paris to inform the 

to combat international terrorism. imposed restrictions on the size and 
French president and Premier J ac­

''These are the kind of steps, this activities of Libyan diplomatic mis­
ques Chirac of U.S. intentions 

is the kind of cooperation that is sions, known as "People's 
shortly before last week's air raid. 

essential if we're going to combat Bureaus." in protest of Libya's terrorism on an international alleged involvement in terrorism. "We found that some of them basis," said White House Reagan's harsh criticism follow­were suggesting that -not that the 
ed reports that French President answer be nothing of that kind-but

spokesman Larry Speakes. Only a day earlier, President Francois Mitterand told a U.S. en­that we look seriously at, together, Ronald Reagan complained he voy he would support the U.S. at­real major action against Libya," "can't see any justification" for tack only if it were strong enough Reagan said. "Some of them sug­France's refusal to permit U.S. to be aimed at overthrowing Li­gested that. . .if we were going to warplanes to fly over French ter­byan strongman Moammar resort to force, that then perhaps it ritory ell( route to Libya. Reagan Khadafy. should be a wider-based and a more said he hopes to discuss the issue at Without naming Mitterand, all out effort to change the Libyan the Tokyo summit next month ''to Reagan said some U.S. allies sug­policy." 
The Oblcrver/Robert Jones

see what we can work out gested a coordinated, "alt-out" at­Walters consulted with leaders together." tack to force a change in Khadafy's in Great Britain, West Germany, 
Charles Kuralt, CBS correspondent and anchor, delivers the 
Red Smith Lecture in Journalism last night at the Memoria/ Library auditorium. Story below. 
In London, police announced the policy of encouraging and aiding France, Italy and Spain from April 
international terrorists. 11 to April 15. The bombing raid pilot who threatened to form an In an interview with The 
arrest of 21 Libyans -including a 
see LIBYA, page 5

anti-American suicide squad -in a Associated Press and other news 
Kuralt makes plea for UN condemnation of U.S. vetoed 
improved writing skills 
the norms of international con­The resolution did not mention duct." Libya but contained an article con­

ByDAVIDT. LEE "Good writing," he UNITED NATIONS-A Security 'It also called on the United demning "all terrorist activities 
News Staff said, "comes from good reading Council resolution condemning the States to "refrain forthwith from whether perpetrated by individuals, 
-I'm sure of that. I think all the 

Charles Kuralt, the CBS-TV good writers hear the music of good writing they've read." 
U.S. raid against Libya ran into a any attacks or threats thereof." groups or states." 
broadcaster best known for his
triple veto Monday, by the United Walters said the resolutions "ap­
In an angry rejeclion speech, cross-country treks in search of

States, Britain and France. proach that condemns acts of the "The great writers, like RedU.S. Ambassador Vernon Walters the common man, made a plea
The resolution won nine votes United States against Libya but ig­Smith, compose new music forsaid he was "outraged by the fact for "better writing, smaller egos, the rest of us to hear when we sit
from Communist and so-called nores Libya's documented, open and a broader knowledge inthat nowhere in this resolution do 
down to the typewriter," said we find any mention of the brutal
non-aligned countries in the IS­undeniable use of terrorism" is a 
journalism" to a packed 
Kuralt, referring to the famous

member peacekeeping body. product of perverted thinking that Memorial Library auditorium
campaign of terror waged by sportswriter who died in 1982.

Australia and Denmark voted "equates the criminal with his vic­last night. 
Kuralt, the fourth speaker inLibya.

against the resolution and Vene­tim." 
the annual Red Smith Lecture in "How many American citizens "Good writing elevates peo­

zuela abstained. Nine votes are required for Journalism, criticized broadcast and innocents must be killed before ple, while bad writing depresses 
The United States, Britain and passage of a resolution in the coun­journalism for having "so fewour right to respond is recognized?" 
them," said Kuralt, the anchor
France are permanent members of cil. The critical vote for the resolu­that are good at writing."
Walters asked. 

of CBS-TV's "Sunday Morning" 
the council along with the Soviet tion was cast by Thailand, con­
and this year's Red Smith lec­Because good writing hasUnion and China. Each of their French Ambassador Claude de sidered friendly to the United 
turer. been devalued, he said, good
negative votes constituted a veto. Kemolaria, with the ambassadors States. Many observers thought 
The best way to improve writers would be better offThe resolution "condemns the of Denmark and Australia, said the that Thailand would abstain. 
writing skills is to read, said working in print journalism
armed attack by the United States resolution was unbalanced for not Thailand's Ambassador 
Kuralt, speaking in front of of America in violation of the mentioning Libya's role in the con­
some 300 people. see KURALT, page 3 Charter of the United Nations and flict. see VETO, page 5 


Americans evacuate West Beirut after hostage execution 
at the request of U.S. ambassador Beirut, a safer locale, from which 
' ~n' ...._-____ 

Reginald Bartholomew, and that most are expected to leave Lebanon no one was allowed into the area altogether.
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The few 

without a permit from Jumblatt
Americans remaining in kidnap­

personally. A State Department official,
plagued West Beirut gathered 

Most of the evacuees were believ­Michael Austrian, said "only a
under heavy guard earlr yesterday 

ed to be faculty or staff members handful" will remain in Lebanon to evacuate their homes. 
from the American University of out of the thousands who used to 
Heavily-armed militiamen of 

Beirut. The U.S. Embassy, the live and work in the prosperous
Druse leader Walid Jumblatt's Pro­

university and Jumblatt's militia, Western-oriented nation. He said 
gressive Socialist Party guarded the 

citing security considerations, all all Americans who aren't there on
seaside Ein Mreissieh Boulevard as 

refused to say how many official duty have been urged to
American evacuees began trickling 

Americans were leaving. leave. 
in at first light. 

The exodus of these Americans
Druse sharpshooters manned 

A small embassy staff, headed byyesterday completes a victory for
rooftops overlooking all ap­
Bartholomew, remains. 

terrorists in a nation once declared
proaches to the assembly area, 

"a vital interest" by President
which also was cordoned off by Five kidnapped Americans re­
Ronal~ Reagan -even as he
\ Druse militia checkpoints. main hostages, unable to leave. It
challenges terrorists in another
Two police minibuses and six was the murder of a sixth American 
place, Libya. 

jeeps were parked in the area, ap­hostage, Peter Kilburn, and two A group of foreign journalists crowd into the room of an parently to transfer the Americans Ten Americans who had stayed British hostages in the aftermath of 
unidentified Libyan civilian in a Tripoli, Libya, hospital Sunday, to Christian East Beirut. in West Beirut despite the threat of the bombing of Libya that led to as part ofa media tour organized by Libyan officials. The wound­Reporters and photographers were kidnapping by Islamic extremists yesterday's exodus. A large group ed man was injured in the U.S. air strike last Tuesday, according banned from the area. They were fled the city's Moslem sector under of British citizens also left yester­to Libyan officials. Related story at right. told that the precautions were taken heavy guard. They went to East day. 

APPhoto 




newspaper. The staff apologizes for 

lbe Observer (liSPS ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except durinR exam and vacation periods. lbe Obse.....,r is published by the studentsofthel 'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S~O per year ( SlO per semester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46~~6. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
rcSI""rvcd. 




: at the BLUE & GOLD Pep rally !
* -i'
* •
* -i'
: Friday, april 25, 7:00pm !
* Enter Northwest Stadium Gates -tc
* 

* -tc* -tc * -tc* •
* 

-tc
: *If rain: Main Arena of the ACC 7:00pm !-tc * -i' -tc •
* .M -i' •
* ~

* ~Sponsored by the Around the Corner Club and Student Government ~ 
~ ••••• ..••Jf. : -tc 
* -tc
.......................................................... 

Wednesday, April 23, 1986 -page 3 
College of Science DEAN'S RUN Twice around the Lakes (7km) •  
Sunday, April27 at Noon  
Register in 229 Nieuwland  



Nobodycan top 
thewa~ wetop

our hamburgers. 


CHOOSE WENDY'S@ 

-------------~------------­THIS COUPON GOOD FOR ALL THIS COUPON GOOD FOR ALL 
THE SINGLE '14 LB.* THE SINGLE '14 LB.* HAMBURGERS YOU HAMBURGERS YOU WANT WITH YOUR WANT WITH YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS CHOICE OF TOPPINGS FOR ONLY $1.09 EACH FOR ONLY $1.09 EACH 
Good at all South Bend, Good at all South Bend, Miahawaka and Nilea Weody'•· Mi•hawaka and Niles Wendy's. 
~-~~~ ~-~~­
·~·rookmy..·-~· ..,.,.._,~ · ·
6 •
Pk>d!W prewnt cook11lg. Please present 

courxm when urdenng.Orw coup:.m rxor custo  M-! I  coupo.". when ordenng. One coupon per cusro­ .. I  
m:or VIlli. Baron, chee!lt'  mer vtstl. Bacon, cheese  
~net tax exlrd Coupon  dnd tax extra. Coupon  

t>KJlfl'~ll M.w 17, 1986 ~xptres: Mc1y 17, 1986. 
SOUTH BEND



-------------L------------­
4227 S. Michigan St. 402 Dillie Highway North 1821 lincoln Way Eaat 3401 lincoln Way West 
NILES MISHAWAKA 1411 South II th Street 119 W. McKinley Ave. 


Kuralt 
continuedjrompage 1 
rather than entering the broad­
casting field. 
"Television seems to be more 
impressed with images," he said, 
"but amplification (does) not 
confer wisdom." 
Kuralt, winner of two Emmys. 
for his "On the Road" series, did 
give credit, however, to televi­
sion's impressive technological 
advances and applauded the ad­
vancement of women and 

FRESHMEN interested in being chairperson or on a commiHee for the 1987 
SOPHOMORE• 
_LITERARY FESTIVAL 
Applications are available at the SAB off.ice, 2nd floor -Lafortune until A ril 25th. 
minorities into the journalistic field. 
Referring to the deceased CBS-TV broadcaster Edward R. Murrow, Kuralt said, "I think he would be impressed with how much more advanced our lights and wires are . . . Because he was fair-minded and humane, I think he would be pleased that not everybody in all television these days is looking for a white male." The North Carolina native has criss-crossed America since 1967 in a mobile home which Kuralt said has been mistaken for an x­ray van and a bookmobile. 
After his 45-minute lecture, the 30-year journalism veteran answered a number of audience questions, including a request that he do a story about Notre Dame's An Tostal. 
"That's my kind of stuff," answered Kuralt, prompting a burst of laughter from the crowd. "I read about the bonfire on the quad . . . and the firecrackers last week and, you know, I got here a week late." 

! • f  
\  ··~~~· /~ ·'~!~~~' ~·~· •·. '...~.~~  ': ~~ r~~4  ~~ ~~  
~..........~.....~.... ~·~·~·~···-·~~.~~­......~......~--~-~-·............,JI  ~~ ~.  

Do we each get a cake? 
Greg and Kathy Miller of Aurora, Colo., had their hands full as their quints celebrated their first birthday yesterday. Michael, Joseph, 
APPhoto 
Mallory (the only girl), Tim and Tyler were born at midnight on Apri/22 a year ago. 


HPC plans more dorm interaction 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
"Hall Presidents' Council is a unique body and is one of the most important parts of student govern­ment because of the representation from every hall," said Joannie Cahill, newly elected co­chairperson, at last night's HPC meeting. 
Her comments came after the HPC had distributed presidential surveys, discussed the Sowder award and announced other events. 
Discussing the ambitions of the HPC, Cahill said, "Our goals are first to make activities within the dorms and to increase the events the HPC has sponsored between the dorms and to increase the events the HPC has sponsored as a body." 
Sponsored activities in the past have included lecture series and the development of party rooms, ac­cording to Cahill. "We want to do 


Dome names Iacono editor for 1987 edition 
By DAN GERLACH 
News Staff 
The 1986 Dome, the Notre Dame student yearbook, may be just ar­nvmg, but preparations have already begun for the 1987 edition, as Ann Iacono, a junior finance major from Woodlyn, Pa., has recently been named editor-in-chief for the 1987 Dome. 
Iacono served as sports editor for this year's book and as assistant sports editor for the 1985 Dome. She was chosen as next year's editor-in-chief as a result of a writ­ten application and a personal in-
more between the dorms like for­
mals, retreats, picnics and other 
planned activities," she said. 
Co-chairperson Sheila O'Connor 
was not at the meeting last night. 
Other business included the distribution of presidential surveys to the HPC members. These surveys are to be forwarded to the members of the individual hall councils to be completed. Cahill said the Board of Trustees asked the HPC for their in put on the presidential search. "We really want student opinion, so please try to get them in," she said, adding that the results would be presented to the Board on May 8. 
Cahill explained the Sowder Award, which was designed for t'alls that show excellence in spirit. Keenan Hall currently holds the ttward in recognition of the Keenan Review, said Bill Jelen, HPC 
~~cretary. 
lWf.Ubmil~d The Sowt!@lo.4.~~£ard "a way ()f' s~*t~,xop_to those­
terview with Joanne Richardson, the Dome's 1986 editor-in-chief. 
In addition to Iacono's appoint­ment, junior Gwen Taddonio has been named managing editor. The rest of next year's editorial board will be named this week. 
"Enthusiasm and dedication to the job" will be qualities Iacono said she will look for in the 1987 Dome staff. 
The 1987 Dome will not be mak­ing any drastic changes in opera­tion, she added, but will be produc­ed with a goal of "providing a year­book that is fun for the students to read, not only now, but 20 or 30 years in the future." 
in your hall who have'I\8-~ those activities," in originality, creativity and participation. 
She said Sowder Award applica­tions must be in the HPC mailbox by next Tuesday since the award committee with meet after next Tuesday's meeting to decide on the recipient. 
District 2 student senator John Gardiner announced a concert Fri­day at about 4:30 in front of Keenan and Stanford Halls. He said this will not conflict with Frivolous Friday as planned for An Tostal. 
Jim Wimbiscus, Stanford Hall president, announced the Mr. Stan­ford contest which will be held on Saturday, May 3 at 7:30p.m with a bar beque at 4 or 4:30. He said peo­ple can attend the barbeque if they are invited by a Stanford Hall resi­dent, and added that everyone is welcome to attend the contest. 

The Department of Communications and Theater at StMary's presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 
Conceived and originally choreographed by 
Jerome Robbins Musical Score combosed by Leonard Bernstein 
Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 
Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's Colle~e For information call the box Office at 284-4626 



The Observer 

Professor Bellis wins annual Sheedy Award 
By ROB HENNIG rewards are very personal," he add­News Staff ed. "I'm one of the few teachers not 
Dr. James Bellis, associate pro­(tbttUs good, but that got formally fessor of anthropology, has been tecognlzed. Many of my colleagues selected as the recipient of the 1986 deserve this," Bellis said. 
Sheedy Award for Excellence in The Sheedy Award was establish­Teaching in the College of Arts and ed in 1970 by an anonymous donor Letters. "to recognize excellence in teaching 
in the college," according to Loux. 
Bellis "makes the long, dim "Winning it is one of the highO\ltllnes ,of the human past live in points of your professional career," the minds of his students, said Loux. The winner receives anregardless of their major fields of honorarium in addition to theinterest. Inside or outside the award, he added.
classroom, counseling in his office Bellis taught high school social or speaking in a dormitory, he has science from 1961 to 1964 in Newdemonstrated that all good teachers Albany, Indiana. He received his ·~lll"e as much for whom they PhD. in anthropology from In­teach:·• •Act'ording to a citation ac­diana University in 1972 and hascompanying the award announce­been a member of the faculty at ment. 
Notre Dame since 1970. Bellis has conducted ar­Bellis was chosen by a committee chaeological research in Ghana,composed of students and faculty West Africa, and in severaland chaired by Dean Michael midwest sites in America. HeLoux, of the College of Arts and specializes in the origins of gold 

AP Photo
Letters. 
mining in West Africa. Most 
"I was very surprised and very recently, he has been involved in pleased. It's a very, very nice feel­underwater archaeology at a site ing," said Bellis about being chosen off Key West in Florida, he said. . to receive the Sheedy Award. Last year's Sheedy Award winner "Teaching is a kind of interesting was Katherine Tillman, an associate profession... the rewards you get professor in the Program of Liberal are few and far between and the Studies. 



NOTRE DAME ~SAINT MARYS 

CHARITY BALL 
• A Family Celebration of Life • 
May 2nd at ACC 8:00pm -1:OOam with Lou Holtz, faculty, administrators and students 
all proceeds go to world hunger -----1 
Tickets available at ACC gate 10, Dept. heads, 
dorm reps, Haggar Hall (SMC) and Alumni office 
S5single 
$8couple 
These restaurants will give discounts for showing CB tix: Rathskeller, New York Deli & Cafe, Mr. D's 


Birthday suits 
mark the 60th birthday of Queen Elizabeth on 
mother, the Princess of Wales, as they and father Monday. 
Prince Charles leave a thanksgiving service to Britain's Prince William holds the hand of his 

AN APARTMENT I .HATTAN TAKES 





THE Rill EDUCATION 
Get afree copy of "Manhattan Moves"­the insider's guide to finding an affordable apartment in Manhattan. 
To welcome potential new residents to the city, and dispel some myths about housing in New York, we have published a book called "Manhattan Moves" It's the ultimate insider's guide to apartment hunting in the Big Apple. 
"Manhattan Moves" helps you set your sights on the right type of apartment and location. It 
takes you on atour of the city's neighborhoods, introduces you to t~e available housing, gives youv1tal facts about transportation,housing laws, renting, sharing, and much more. 
The book gives you inside advice on actually finding tl'!e apartment you've targeted. It helps you find the hottest listings, tells you how to canvas, and how to select abroker. 
Send for afree copy of "Manhattan Moves" today. It won't guarantee Y.OU aManhattan apart­Tent.. bu~ 1_t will d~finite.ly g~t you 
movmg mthe nght d1rect1on. 
.-----~--------------------------,
I ro: IIAIIIATTM MOVD ..,.IIAIMIBIEIT,
I 1271AVBII£0f1HEMEIICAI,..YR, I.Y.,. 
I Send me a~PY of "Manhattan Moves". The Insider's Guide to finding anI Apartment mManhattan-free without cost orobligation. 
I Your Marne----------------------­1 School----------------,-----­1 Address-·----------------­
City State-------Zip ___ 
J 
~~--------~-------------------------­
L;-IIO-.-.-~---_-_--_~_-_--_-__State_~-------.TIII-.­
....-1-(.:.M7.o4MI
--____________J 

Wednesday, April23, 1986-page 5
The Observer 



Libya 
continuedfrompage 1 
occurred early in the morning on 
April 15, Libyan time. 
State Department spokesman 
Bernard Kalb said the department 
had no comment on the arrest of a 
Palestinian in connection with the 
bombing of a nightclub in West 
Berlin on April 5, which killed an 
American serviceman and a Turkish woman. 
In Berlin today, officials said a Palestinian arrested in the discothe­que bombing is the brother of a man held in Britain in connection with the attempted bombing of an Israeli airliner. 
In an interview with four reporters, Reagan was sharply critical of France for forcing U.S. warplanes based in Britain to skirt Europe to get to Libya. 
"I think it is difficult to understand, if we're all in this together and supposed to be shar­ing the protection of all of our countries, to deny the right of our planes to fly over, " Reagan said, "I can't see any justification for it." 
But  he  added,  "I  think  it's  
something  to  be  considered  now  
and talked  rationally between us as  

to what the effect might be." 




Ken Kesey: 
Hs Tim Leary led his ll~i)j];) Research at millbrook in the early 60s. Kesey's band of merry Pranksters formed their own IICiJ research group in La Honda. CR. Find out why you ~og trust a Prankster in 1 days. 
The Observer/Roben Jonrs
The Future Pers~ectives Series 
Killer B-E-E 
Mike Marino has just the thing to wear to the annual Grace Hall spelling bee.

'-(I(((((IBiffi((I'firn [((([(fOO (~DD {1 
ATTENTION ENTREPRENEURS: 
BUSINESS PLAN CONTEST 
The Notre Dame Entrepreneurs Society and the 
. Notre Dame Business School Advisory Council 
is sponsoring a contest for would-be entrepreneurs. 
The contest will be to create a written business plan followed by an oral presentation for a new venture. 

The winners of the contest will receive the following prizes: 
1st prize  -$3,000  
2nd prize  -$2,000  
3rd prize  -$1,000  

Important informational meeting 
................................... 
3 p.m. April24 Room 122 Hayes Healy 
Veto 
continuedfrom page 1 
Birabhongse Kasemir said he cast his vote "with a heavy heart" because of "ties of friendship" and because of the loss of innocent lives. But he said pre-emptive attacks are not permitted under the U. N. charter and should not take the place of diplomacy and multilateral efforts at conflict resolution. 
The resolution was introduced by council members Congo, Ghana, Madagascar, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Arab Emirates. Along with Thailand, they won support form the Soviet Union, China and Bulgaria. 
The British government had allowed U.S. bombers to take part in the Libyan raid from bases in Great Britain, and the British government fully supported the United States. 
~****************
* IT'S HERE! : 
* *
* * 
:chris' contest : 
lt6farts today. · * * *
* '**
* * 
t***************'

r-------------, 
I FREE! I I REGULAR RAXe. IIWllH PURCHASE OF I 
I*EGUIAR FRIES AN I 
I I MEDIUM DRINK 
I 

ltr lamou. ~x roast beef, 1llce
I in, piled hi!lh, and served on a I
1 sarne-aeed roll. 
....... preoonl coupon before otdorlng. 0.. 
I 

IOltUpon per per1011 per \ltstt. Not V6lkl In combiMdon ! 
with 'any other Rax offe-r. Offer good at p.artlctJ)IItins ~~IRIJ,x Rastllluranll. V20 cent c.a.tl ntdemphOO Yllklt. ·,•1985 Rax Restaurants, Inc. 
IIJ -~I 
I I
I . -I
L-----------..-_.. 


~i~~~_()__i__ll__t__________________w_ed-ne-sd-ay-,A-pr_n_z3_,I_9s_6_p_ag._e6 


Nuclear test ban a vital step toward security 


While President Reagan is vigorously fighting terrorism in one foreign policy area, specifically Libya, he .is subtly promoting terrorism in another, the nuclear arms race. While arms control does not grab as many headlines as Colonel Khadafy's terrorism ac­tivities, it is a far bigger threat to world peace. 
When Reagan recently ordered a new detonation at the Nevada Test Site, he was squandering the best opportunity to promote arms control in recent history. Indeed, it may have been the best opportunity since the fiery dawn of the Atomic Age: Soviet leader 
ThomasJ. Warth 
guest column 
Mikhail Gorbachev promised to continue the Russian's eight month self-imposed testing moratorium if the U.S. discontinued their test explosions. He also proposed negotia­tions aimed toward a total test ban treaty, offering the Americans (for the first time) the right to make on-site inspections to verify Soviet compliance with the treaty. And this all occurs at a time when experts agree that the U.S. is ahead of the Soviets in the sophistication of its warheads. 
Why is President Reagan foresaking this excellent, unprecedented opportunity? Why is he the first U.S. President to oppose a comprehensive ban on atomic weapons testing? Reagan insists that testing is necessary to preserve nuclear determent. He argues that "a limited level of testing assures that our weapons are safe, effective, reliable, and survivable." 
Indeed nuclear testing will help develop "better" weapons. But better weapons are not safer weapons. 
Much of the current nuclear testing is devoted to certain parts of the proposed Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI. But the promise of security that SDI proponents guarantee is as imaginary as the movie for which the project is named. Even the most enthusiastic scientists concede that "Star Wars" will not intercept all incoming Soviet ICBM's. And "Star Wars" makes no allowances for slow-moving delivery systems that move through the earth's atmosphere, such as bombers, cruise missiles, and even weapons smuggled across borders. Inexpen­sive countermeasures, such as decoy missiles made of tin foil can easily be deployed by the 
Soviets  just  as  quickly  as  "Star  Wars"  
technology is developed.  IN other  words,  
SDI is a dead end.  

Better, more accurate and powerful weapons will tempt both superpowers to in­itiate a preemptive first strike to knock out the other's missile silos. More precise weapons will offer generals on both sides the opportunity to fight "tactical" nuclear wars that they oddly assume, against all historical precedent, will not escalate to a full-scale nuclear exchange. "Better" weapons are a dead end in every way. 
A total test ban offers the most promising method of halting the spiraling arms race. Experts, including former National Security Advisor Brent Scowcraft and former Defense Secretary James Schlesinger, both of the Ford Administration, agree that a test ban could make a "significant contribu­tion to slowing nuclear proliferation." 
A test ban is the best first step because it halts the development of deadlier weapons. A test ban is now more verifiable than ever given the promise of on-site inspections as well as new satellite and seismological technology. 
There is little risk to the nuclear deterrent that we rely on to defend such important areas as Western Europe. A test ban would only halt the deployment of new weapons, not eliminate current weapons in place. 
Negotiating a test ban, or at least agreeing to the present moratorium would contribute to some trust and good will between the superpowers that could lead to actual disar­mament agreements later on. It is only a first step, but we have to begin somewhere. 
Maybe Reagan is not convinced that the 
P.O.BoxQ 
Dame campus, I support this effort and want to encourage others of this community to let the President and their congressional delegates know they are opposed to U.S. ag­gressive action in Libya. 
Sara Webb Phillips Coordinator for Justice and Peace Education 
Conklin 'surprised' to find name on letter 
deserved. However the self-congratulatory tone of the letter was insulting to the talented members of the Notre Dame community who suffered from a tight job market and either found themselves without jobs or were forced to seek them through other channels. 
Those seniors fortunate enough to get a job through Career and Placement should privately thank the staff there rather than pat themselves on the back in print. 
Rick Conklin St. Edward's Hall 
indefinite fast in the hope of inspiring the University as it considers divestment. 
He states that "until it divests, the Univer­sity has chosen to identify with the white establishment, its corporate institutions and state agencies." He also reminds us that it is not the blacks of South Africa who need to be freed. It is the hearts of their white op­
pressors.  Set yourself free. Vote in favor of  
divestment.  
Louise Weber  

Graduate student 

Force not acceptable as terrorism deterrent 
Dear Editor: 
The Pax Christi USA organization has released the following statement on the bombing of Libya. 
"Pax Christi USA deplores the air attack on Libya by U.S. military forces. While we condemn terrorism without reservation, we exclude military force as an acceptable way to deal with the problem. The bombing of Tripoli and other Libyan targets has resulted in what it was meant to protest: the injury and death of innocent civilians. The bomb­ing will certainly cause what it was meant to prevent: more and worse terrorist attacks. The bombing which alienates Arab nations from the West and increases East-West ten­sions in the Mediterranean threatens world peace. Therefore, Pax Christi USA urges the leaders of our government above all to stop the military action against Libya now." 
As a Pax Christi member on the Notre 
Doonesbury 
Dear Editor: 

Life is full of surprises, but one of them I don't need is to find my name attached to a letter I have never seen, much less written. The letter of which I speak appeared in the April 21 Observer and was signed by seven seniors (myself surprisingly included) who lavished praise upon the staff at Career and Placement Services who "have served us well." 
The praise for Career and Placement and in my mind especially for Paul Reynolds was 
y0{//?&8AO:.AT7H& COl.­1136£. YOU'VE 8CEN UNVf3?.. 7HE INFWENC& OFA ZOW­81& COMPOUVl1. a£'RE GO­ING 7V TRY 70 I?RY YOU OUT. SOJlJSTRaAX,OKAYr 
\ 

Grad students should vote for divestment 
Dear Editor: 

Graduate students: Tired of hearing about South Africa and divestment? 
I would like to suggest a way to free your heart of this issue. Vote yes on the ballot in favor of divestment. Father Basil van Rensburg, on sabbatical at Notre Dame from his ministry in South Africa, is on an 
Garry Trudeau 
current nuclear arms race is bad in itself. The development of nuclear weapons is a very ex­pensive proposition, especially in this area of Gramm-Rudman. It consumes resources that could better be used to confront such pro­blems of world hunger. It is, in fact, stealing from the poor in a very real way. 
The assembly of nuclear warheads pro­duces lethal wastes, some of them remaining radioactive for thousands of years. Thousands of tons of these wastes are being produced each year by the nuclear arms in­dustry: a terrible legacy to our children. 
The nuclear arms industry does not pro­duce jobs. It is capital intensive. Other in­dustries would produce far more jobs for the amount of money spent. 
Ronald Reagan made a serious mistake when he ordered the 78th nuclear detonation at the Nevada Test Site two weeks ago. He should halt testing, seek a moratorium, and begin negotiations while there is still an op­portunity. In this way he will stop the wasteful and dangerous nuclear arms race while it is still possible. He will be doing far more to promote a secure world in this way than by dropping a few bombs on Khaddafi. 
Thomas J. Warth is a senior government major at Notre Dame. 
The Viewpoint Department The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Quote of the day 
"No man is an island, entire of itself; and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee." 
-John Donne 
(1573~1631) 
"Devotions" 



General Board 

Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . . . . . . . . . James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......... Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager . ............ David Thornton 
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . ........ Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
-~­

charides which consist of one sugar Maltose 
MAUREEN FARLEY 
molecule. These can combine to A disaccharide made from the features wrtter form disaccharides and polysac­breakdown of starch in the malting charides, double and complex of barley. It is found in baby for­
America has prided itself on sugars. Sugar comes in several mulas.
becoming increasingly health con­familiar forms. 
scious in recent years. We have 
taken up jogging, tennis, aerobic Table sugar Lactose dance and weightlifting We try This supplies nothing for the body Another disaccharide found in everything from yoga to zen to but calories. It is commonly milk. "cow's milk is about five per­
dyanetics for our peace of mind. known that sugar will raise the cent lactose. We eat more fish and less red meat. blood sugar level within ten We concentrate more on natural, Sucrose
minutes. However, this is tem­organically grown foods as il­Derived from sugarcane and
porary and the blood sugar level lustrated by the booming health will then drop dangerously, putting beets. It is found in table sugar,foods industry. 
brown sugar, raw sugar, molasses But the ugly truth is that and maple sugar. A label may say 
the body on a metabolic roller 
coaster. America's consumption of food is "no sugar added" and plainly list
Brown sugar not nearly as healthy as that of sucrose in the ingredients. Make
This type may be more dangerous poorer nations though Americans no mistake. Sucrose is sugar. When found in sugarcane and is a non-nutntlve artificial
than white sugar because the char­consume many more calories. coal and other factors which are us­beets, there are plenty of B sweetener that can kill. It has been From 1908 to 1913, complex car­ed to give the sugar its color are Sugar is nothing with which to vitamins and fiber to help slow the shown decisively that it can cause bohydrates made up 56.1 percent thought to be carcinogens. joke. Continued indulgence in absorbtion and aid the metabolism cancer. Four persons out of every of our diet. In 1986, they make up Raw sugar unhealthy eating habits could lead of the sucrose. However, when it is 10,000 will develop bladder cancer approximately 35.7 percent of our to trouble, regardless of whether consumed in its refined form, it by drinking one can of diet soda
There's nothing more natural diet. In other words, one half of you come from a family with a floods the body, putting a strain
about this sugar than any other. It everyday. And 16 to 20 of the our carbohydrate intake seems to goes through the same refining pro­history of heart disease and on the endocrine system as the body 10,000's offspring will develop have drifted to take the form of cess as white sugar. It is also diabetes or not. Sugar is linked struggles to keep blood sugar levels bladder cancer. More frightening is refined white sugar. The average strongly to these two diseases. normal. Sugar will also cause the that the effects of saccharin tend to
known as turbinado sugar. American consumes roughly two Honey Sugar alters both the blood sugar adrenal glands to secrete more be cumulative. A person who uses it regularly has a much higher
pounds of sugar per week. That's levels and the body's normal adrenalin than is normal. This may 
This is no better for the body than chance of developing cancer thanI 04 pounds per year. response to insulin. We know that lead to adrenal exhaustion from
sugar, except that if it is raw or one who steers clear. 
One problem with our imbalanced unheated, it will contain trace the pancreas controls the balance overstimulation and ultimately diet is that we have become a coun­between the hormones insulin and cause immune system d~struction. Saccharin does not seem to be con­
minerals and B vitamins. try of immediate gratification. We glucagon. When sugar is introduc­As more sugar is ingested by the sumed as much since people have eat off supermarket shelves, Even if you have managed to ed into the body, the blood sugar body, fats in the blood, including become more informed of its reaching for what is fast, conve­avoid these refined carbohydrates, level rises. Insulin gets rid of the triglycerides and cholesterol, in­dangers. However, there is an ar­nient and most of all, what is easy unneeded glucose from the blood. crease. More cholesterol plaques tificial sweetener on the market
you still could be eating sugar. to prepare, instead of listening to When the blood sugar level drops may be seen in the vascular system that may be just as dangerous.
Sugar can come in forms different what our bodies need. Processed too low, glucagon will raise it back after a heavy sucrose dose. This ac­Aspartame is the sweetener of the
than the ones above. foods are relatively inexpensive to Glucose to normal. The problem arises celerates the rate at which blood '80s. It is more familiar by its produce and generate huge profits. A simple sugar also known as when the pancreas can't supply platelets clump together, which is brand name, Nutra Sweet. enough insulin. This shortage one of the characteristics of most Aspartame is composed of two
grape sugar, dextrose, corn sugarAt the expense of our health, we are causes an inability to utilize types of heart disfunctions. Sugar amino acids linked by a peptideand blood sugar. This last name iscontinuously bombarded with glucose and diabetes is the result. can affect the maturation of tooth bond and these are linked to aappropriate because the bodyadvertisements for food that can reduces all sugars to this form, With diabetes, it is common to enamel. There is nothing that does methanol group by an esteressentially lay the groundwork for although you'll never see the name have eye problems and cataracts a better, faster job of destroying linkage. The amino acids arequite a few diseases. 
"blood sugar" on a food label. may form. Sugar contributes to the your teeth than sugar. phenyl-alanine and aspartic acid. 
All sugars, regardless of their ap­degeneration of the retina. In addi­If you've been concerned about Methanol is commonly known as pearance, are made from the same Fructose tion, laboratory experiments with the dangers of sugar, you may have wood alcohol which has been chemical elements: carbon, This is almost identical to glucose rats have shown that the kidney is tried switching to a sugar substitute shown to cause blindness and nerve hydrogen and oxygen. The most but because of a slight structural damaged by either high sugar in­such as saccharin or Nutra Sweet. damage in reasonably small doses. basic of all sugars are the monosac-change, it is much sweeter. take or by inducing a diabetic state. Saccharin is made from coal tar. It Phenyl-alanine can be a danger to 
the unborn as it may cross the placenta. Aspartic acid if consum­ed in very large doses, may cause 
nerve damage. 
There are claims that Nutra Sweet is a natural sweetener because it is made up of amino acids (as are pro­teins). However, there has been no conclusive proof that this sweetener is recognized and digested by pro­tein enzymes. Nutra Sweet is 200 times as strong as sugar and many argue that it is not a danger because it is consumed in such small doses. 
What can cause problems in large dose~ can also cause problems in smatl doses. The disease will just takt. .lbnger to crop up. Also,
"J ., 

because of the low calorie proper­ties, it could possibly be heavily consumed by many. 
A healthy body is essential if you don't want to take chances with your body or your children's. By following a healthy diet, staying away from processed foods, refin­ed sugar and starches, and eating more grains, fruit and fish, you can improve your body. 



The Observer Wednesday, April 23, 1986 -page 

Women's Bookstore tournament is down to final eight teams 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN defeated Slammers II, 21-10. Four Other Balls of Fire defeat Sports Writer Center Kathleen McDavid shot a Chic Superhoops, 21-15. solid 10-of-16 from the field to lead Challenger, with varsity field Sunday against Ladies On the the Slammers, while Helen Gilboy hockey player Bernadetter Suplick Bus, Negligence's Mary McPherson pulled down nine boards. and Lyons' interhall players Karen went up hard for a rebound and Phelps and Noland, lost to Revenge
Clutching at Straws finally lost
knocked her thumb out of joint. of the Quixotic Quint in the third
its grip yesterday, losing to Violent
Two days and a hospital triP later, round last year, so it will be looking
Femmes II, 21-S. Mary Borkowski
McPherson, with the offending for some revenge of its own in to­
paced the Femmes with seven
thumb taped and splinted, led day's game at Stepan. 
points and a 7-fo-12 performance.
Negligence over Voce's Dames with · 
The Femmes will face Double
12 baskets, 21-9 
Decker Oreo Cookie tomorrow. Also at Stepan today, the deliberate Almosts will take on the
Oreo Cookie beat Hearnism's
For the winning team from the scrappy Pacers. The Almosts, with
Better Half yesterday, 21-14, but
law school, Helen Ryan also drop­11 points from Mary Ellen Mileski
Hearnism's gave the Cookie its beg­
ped in five. Mary Driscoll led and 11 rebounds from her sister 
gest challenge so far. The Better
Voce's Dames with five buckets. Patty Mileski, beat P.W.' Pee
Half staged a final effort to
The Dames kept up with Negligence Wees, 21-14. The Pacers, a deter­
outscore the Cookie in the closing
in the full court game in the beginn­mined team from Saint Mary's,
points of the game, 4-1. Double
ing, but the shots simply didn't fall. defeated the Heels, also by a 21-14
Decker Oreo Cookie pulled out the
Near the end, however, score. Jenn Harto shot 10-of-20
win with a strong effort from Lisa
Negligence's strong passing game and pulled down 13 rebounds.
Brown and her nine baskets. 
found its groove and put the game Stephanie Duke grabbed 12 boards
Seven points from Denise
away. in the losing effort. 
Basford led Revenge of the Quixote Quint, the highest remaining seed, 
Today at 4 p.m. on the Stepan over Four Shots and a Chaser, 21-After today's games at Stepan, courts, Negligence will go against 7. Regi Richter also sank five for the women's bookstore tournament We Weren't Cheerleaders in High the Quint. will be down to the final four, after School. Yesterday, We Weren't Hot outside shooting from Beth starting from a 62-team field last Cheerleaders in High School Noland helped Challenger and Friday. 
'--------------------------------------------' 





Classifieds 
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 12 
mates, playing without Jim Reed, who injured his foot in the last round, rode George Baldus' 9-of-16 shooting to a 21-19 victory over Boys of Summer. 
Let's Go Crazy was pushed into overtime by Poddle Chats with Chomsky over Chowder before pulling out a 22-20 victory. Chris Perozek continued his high scoring average with a 7-of-18 performance and nine rebounds. Brian Koehr chipped in six and pulled down 10 boards. John G. Mooney scored eight in a losing effort. 
Let's Go Crazy will face Port-A­Pit, an impressive 21-14 victor over Still Uncoachable, at 6:15p.m. on Stepan Court 6. Joseph Price, Frank Izzo, and Cedric Figaro each scored six times for Port-A-Pit. 
Five more tough contests are on tap today, as the quality of the teams remaining should prove to be a fan's delight. Lee's BBQ Roun­dhouse, a 21-13 winner over Six Guys that Can't Add, will face Shysters at 6:15 p.m. on Bookstore Court 10. Bubba Cunn­ingham, a veteran of former Bookstore champion Macri's Deli, and Tom Antonini each shot 6-of­13 to lead Lee's to victory. Shysters won a tight contest with the Z-Men -The Unpublicized Ones, 21-16. 
Tofu Chaka Khan will battle Te­
quila White Lightning at 5 p.m. on Bookstore Court 9. Bill Zodell 
Matt Hanley combined for 13 
Tofu's 21 points as they beat a 
Nutmeggers X team, 21-16. got eight baskets from Mike 
and seven from Chris Nanni downed Skywalker and the Coachmen, 21-12. 
WBBS with Ed Smerciak tinued its hot shooting with a 21 31 team shooting against Kitty and the Ken Scheurmann's 10 points pelled WBBS to a 21-8 victory. 
Their opponent today will Four Fags and a Zahmbie at 5 on Bookstore Court 10. The won a close contest Minahoonies by a 21-18 Mike Nee scored six, and Michelin poured in five for the tors. 
Mr. Coffey and the Creamers, a 21-13 victor NADS yesterday, will face The harassing Stains, led by former sity basketball player Tim tom, at 6:15p.m. on Stepan 
3. Kempton shot 11-of-28 leading his team to a 21-18 · over Dancing Irish Dingleberries. 
The final game today Leone's Stallions, impressive 21-9 winners over Enough Macho Meat to Make Dick Naugles Proud, against Unidentified Grace Defenders, 21-18 victors over Who's Next, at 5 p.m. on Stepan Court 1. 
Tht• Ohsen•a Notr<: Dam<: oltkt:. lm:atnl on tht· third floor of l.a~ortum· Studt·nt c.,nt.,r. at:n·pts dassilkd adv<:rtisinl( from 9 am until ·• p m. \tonua\ through Friday The Ohs.-n·er "aint .\tan·, offitt· lot·att·d on th<· third floor of Hai(I(Jr Colkl(l' Ct·ntt·r. Jl"l<'P" da"ilinl' from 1.! ~~~ p m until .~ p m. \ton· day lhOUI(h hida\ lkadlont· for llt'XI·dJ\ da'"lkd' IS .~ p m .\If das"lkds must ht· prt:pard. l'ither 111 per"'" or h' marl < hJrl(l" " I 0 <Tn" per lht: ··harac 
t<·rs .:r dav. 
NOTICES 
Typing Av....,.. 
217...col2 
Typlng/W~ 
2n-a131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-70011. 
································································ 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. 111.040 • $5f,230/yr. Now Hiring. Celt 80H87· 1000 Ext. R-11134 ior current federel u.t. 
8I'MIG IALI!IIa.v. ....M .,.._.. 
································································ 
THE CII!Ll.AII 
(N.O.'a only studenl record-) 
/allOW accepllnQ "'"~ epf)llc.,..Applicllllotte -.,..,.. , file Olfllr jill,. ,__,t11 uFatfiiM}, Md.,. due by w.ctrwda)'. April23. 
GOVERNMENT HONES from $1 (U Nplllr). Alao ~tax properly. Call 805-$17-«100 ext. GH-8834 for lnforma· lion. 
\ LOST/FOUND] 
LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow "Grace Hall' tag at party on Colfax St. or on campus. Without them 1 can't open my room, mailbox, car, or house. Please help me by calling 283· 3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. 
LOST-two notebooks and an Engineering Materials book from South Dining Hall on Thursday, April 
17. Please return them to the dining hall -It will lake me hours to recopy all fhe notes. (I didn't really want anyone to see the test I nearly failed either. . .please return It so I can redeem myself on finals.) 
SSMOTH EZE 
$SMOOTH EZE$ 
my 2 yr. old son's basketball was 
mistakenly taken from the bookstore 
game on Stepan 2 at/around 4 p.m. 
Sunday 4120. It Is a Wilson Supershot 
b-ball. A MacGregor b-ball was left In 
Its place. The MacGregor has 
SMOOTH EZE written ot it. II you 
know anything about this mixup, 
please call Jim Mills at 272-8180 (of­
flee), 2n-6039 (home). My son can tell 
the difference despite the fact that 
the balls are of comparable quality. 
S$FORYOURLOFTCALLJONAT2047 
D.R.!. NEED£D IIIIIEDIATELY TO BE fiART OF PLANNING FOR RELIGIOUS EDUCATIONAL WING OF II YI!AR OLD HIOif ENERGY SOUTHERN PARISH. STI'IONG ROOTS IN R.C.I.A., R.C.I.C., 
R£111EW. 
CONTACT: SEARCH COIIIIITTEE, HOLY FAIIIL Y CATHOLIC COM­IIUNrTY, P.O. BOX 130, CLEIIIIONS, NC27012. 
S$S$ lots of hard. cold cash $$$$$ for your extra graduation licket(s) leave mesg. for John al239·7278. 
Lost, a gold bracelet with Egyptian charms on Saturday 19th, at Corby Sir. II has a personal value and means a lot to me! If found please contact Amlr11 at 288-5420, or Nancy at291-8381. GENEROUS REWARD 
LOST: SILVER RING (ADJUSTABLE), TWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. CALL CAROLYN, 2~19. 
LOST:GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH (WITH SCRATCHED CRY~ TAl).UNFORTUNATELY WAS LOST QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU HAVEN'T GROWN TOO ATTACHED TO IT).POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM POOL.REWARD(AND NO QUE~ l'IONS). PLEASE CALL 3289,ASK FOR BRIAN IF FOUND. 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2878389 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 2n-<W17, EVES. BEFORE10. 
WANTED: Ride needed to MSU Frl· day the 25th, normal cost sharing ar· rangements. Ask for David at x1076, call anytime. 
SMC girl wants OC roommate for summer and/or fall. She's friendly and outgoing. Call Suzette at 233­5396 or leave message at 272-4837. Thanks. 
I need graduation tix. Will pey GOOD MONEY. Please call Pat at 289-7340 after 5:30p.m. 
SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, Adams High School. One-half mile from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap· prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288· 4655. 
Help! Need one commencement ticket. Will pay $1 Call Julie 2781 
HELP WANTED lllotel Deell Clertl, lllllll8dlete Opening, Evenlnp, FuUIPIIrHI-Avllll. 
through Su-.C.U 233-11114 7Lift.• 
1p.m. 
I need graduation llx. Will pey GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL Pat at 289· 7340 after 5:30p.m. 

TYPING -fast, High· Quality. Call 287·9257 
PRO-TYPE -15 yrs. exp. student & law papers, resumes, dissertations. 277-5833. 
TULLER WORD-PROCESSING SEA· VICE SEE US FOR ALL YOUR TYP· lNG NEEDS PICK-UP/DELIVERY 291· 1976 
liTHE DECISION IS HERE!! MAUREEN MCDONNELL HAS REGRETFULLY W/DRAWN FROM LONDON 1988. NEW ITINERARY: LOOK·OUT SAN DIEGO AND GUAM11 
FOUND: CAMERA AT SENIOR BAR BEFORE SPRING BREAK. CALL TOM AT 272·2488. 
HELP! Lost white knit coat with keys In pocket at Lee's Ribs last Thurs. Please call x25941f you have them! 
LOST: Key on key chain that says "Mary's Keys." If found, please call 1704. 
LOST: APRIL 18, CASIO TOUCH SEN· SOR CALCULATOR WATCH. CHROME CASE AND BAND. CON· FIRMATION GIFT FROM MY BROTHER. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL CHUCKXXX-1956 
LOST: KEYS, APRIL 9, ON SOUTH QUAD OR POSSIBLY AT UNIVERSITY PARK MALL THERE WERE FIVE KEYS ON A PLAIN RING WITH NO TAG. $20 REWARD. PLEASE CALL CHUCK AT XXX·1956 
FOUND: MEN'S CLASS RING By Flanner and Grace, describe In­Itials and class year to claim. Call Rose 239·7660 9a.m.·1 p.m. 
House for summer or next year, 1 mi. N. of campus. $125/mo. 674-6595 alterS p.m. 
3 bedroom house with fireplace to be sublet lor summer. For Info call 2743 or3347. 
4 & 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR RENT, BLOCK OF 5 HOUSES (3 LEFT) $400 MO. CAll 25&-0933 OR 234-93&4. 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,04().$59,230/yr. Now Hiring, Call 1-805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current federal list. 
Are you a Selnt Mary's student lOOk· lng for a well paying summer job thet will allow you to gain professional ex­perience? Apply now for • position as s PHONE/MAIL Caller. You will be calling alumnae, parents, and friends of SMC as part of a lundralslng pro­gram. Apply now at the SMC person­'"'' office of call Marth Hewitt at 5351 for more details. Also needed­Clerical help. You do not need to be a SMC student to be a clerical. Apply novt! 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL A family celebration of life Saturday, May 2 at the ACC. Get involved now. 

NEED TIX FOR COMMENCEMENT, will pay BIG $$. Call Steve at 277· 0485, evenings. 
NEED RIDE TO EAST. ILL. UNIV OR TERRE HAUTE OR ST. LOUIS (OR PARTS NEARBY) LEAVE 4/25 RETURN 4/27 WILL SHARE USUAL CALL BOB 2202 
FOR SALE 

APPLE IMAGEWRITER, VERY GOOD COND. WITH CABLE, MANUAL, CAR· RYING CASE $275 OBO. 7016 CAM· PUS OR 233·1299 EVES. 
FOR SALE: Like new GE steam Iron wlfull Ironing board and cover. $15. Kelly 233·5284 evenings. 
Need Graduation Tix Desperately!!! WILL PAY ANY PRICE! I! John 4057 ·······················
HAVE· siG FAMILY & NEED A LoT 
(10) OF COMM. TIXI WILL PAY! CALL PAUL ZIMMER 277-39121 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND CREDIT! CIIH noles available. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233·2342 
FOR SALE • 78 DODGE CHALLENGER Excellent Condition, Sporty (Sliver w/ racing stripes) $1500 or best oHer Call 283·3282. Ask for Sang or JeH. 
FOR SALE · 2-becl loll, finished & stained, black vinyl !.....-, and 2 dree-•. Call Sheila at 272·1011. 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: II you really want to "be friends", why don't you try acting like one? 
"sar" 
JUNIORS JUNIORS "LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00P.M. TONIGHT.118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
;;~;;;;~:; ..c:~ii.veU:ow..si:iiiMA"FiiN·e..~i 
272·HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday; 5pm·2am Friday; 3pm·1 am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday. 
PREGNANr?·cotisioi:i:i -'ooPi-io'N. 
LOVING PROFESSIONAL CATHOLIC COUPLE CAN PROVIDE A BRIGHT FUTURE FOR YOUR CHILD. CALL COLLECT (217) 367-3379 after 7:00 
P.M. 
································ 
THIRSTY THURSDAY AT SMC! THIRSTY THURSDAY ATSMC! T!iiRSTYTHURSDAY ATSMC! 
PREGNANT? 

NEED HELP? Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotllne, counseling & free pregnancy test. 
WOMAN'S CARE CENTER 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow peges of the Campus Telepholltl Directory. Use them today$ 
JUNIORS JUNIORS "LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM." PUAL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 7:00P.M. TONIGHT.118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. All MAJORS INVITED. 
Established Band, Into New Music ­Looking for a Guitarist and Drumrner lor Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM· MENCEMENT TICKEY DESPERATELY-BIG BUCKS$$ CALL DREW AT 272·4540 
Tony Loves Maria May 1,2,3 & May 15,16,17 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball with honorary emcee Lou Holtz May 2, 8 p.m .• 1 a.m. at the ACC Pro­ceeds go to World hunger 
All welcome$ 
The DAVE FLANAGAN FOR UMOC Wishing Well is coming soon. Vote Dave lor UMOC. 
································ 
Suzanne Vega sez: "She lives on 9th Street, with Isaac Ice" love, the periodic one. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTON THIS WEEKEND CALL DUDLEY AT 272· 
2064 
COMPLETE, UNADULTERED, 
UNCENSORED MADNESS IS 
ALMOST HERE!!! 
LOU HOLTZ LOU HOLTZ· LOU HOLTZ 
Will speak to the student body at the Blue and Gold Pep-Rally Friday, April 25th at 7:00 p.m. In the Football Stadium. In case of rain head to the Main Arena of the ACC, same time. Come show your support for the Football Team!! 
JOE BASQUE FOR UMOCI 
The man who considered becoming a 
priest "because little girls trust 
priests." The man who loves sheep 
and hates "cute." FOR BASQUE, 
UGLINESS IS NOT A STATE OF AP· 
PEARANCE,IT'S A WAY OF LIFE. 
JOE FOR UMOC! 
FUN...FUN...FUN.. Are you wat­
chlg? Do you know who I am? I want 
to meet you too. 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY TO CLAIRE "POOTS" WILLIAMS!! I WISH THIS AEROBICS GODDESS A HAPPY DAY BE CALLING 4161 OR STOPPING BY 206 LEWIS HALL. 
REMEMBER THE ORANGE GUY FROM 5 GUYS WHO WEAR BODY PAINT? WELL IT's HIS BIRTHDAY!! YES, JIM MELLUISH IS 21 TODAY! To WISH THIS UNIQUE INDIVIDUAL A HAPPY DAY, CALL 3331 OR JUST 
In remembering the times of IBUIInte•• 
and fun past­One thing we both remember Is you took off with my boxers! Do think we could meet again to boxers before we graduate? about a call? 
WALSH HALL RESIDENTS: Ask someone why your hall tax Is ingup. SCOOTER (JPMc): Happy 19th! and one Schaefer's are you so you better enjoy it. Love, Stinky Stinketle 
MARY RAVEN 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! LOVE, OCCUPANT B. DICK, IRWIN, AND FRIENDS. 
You asked for it, Ward, so here it is . . 
CPA Word oltho Year 
NOVATION 
ATIN: St. Mory'o Watch for lhc DAVE FLANAGAN UMOC WISHING WELL today Haggar. Then you can really see DAVE really is!! 





Wednesday, April 23, 1986 -page 9 

"Dally Wear LenHa 
•Amsof 
•Amencan HVdron 
·~ft 
•S.uiCh & LOIT() 
•C<basotl 
•Ouruolt 
S4l.tJ,.., 
• 
Tllltetl L-• 

• Bauscll & Lomo Natural Tmls 

• 
Ctbasoll Colors 'U.t7 ,.W



"b--l­
•AO Solicon S57ipr 
•S.U'<h & LOIT() 
s•&'"' 
•CoodlrV~SO'\ 
~"'~"'"' S67ipr •CSIT S97ipr •Ouroscfl 3 $57/pr •GeneSIS 4 """/Of eHydrocurw 17$;/pr 
If YOuR BRAND IS r.OT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOuR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND •ou A OUQ!E 
,.--------------,
I I 1 ,,• .________ r I ,,... u....... I 
I I
I ,...,..,..,..,._,,...,..,lft\ol..ol..otetl<lHIIao• 1
I ~.::::::.:7:t.:.:.::t;_;h,:.:;:' m••• '' I 
II  ·  -------------­,.,~."...........  It  
.....n~~  
'  
R  

R"..-'"'' 
'L ...~~~.~.... 
................. 
I I
1 lm•••ut,..lu•r 
L---------· ----' 
All IIIIIIU IWI'&f'lttttl hrll 111•11tty. ..,, 
''' '"""'' '" llllt ,,.,,,.., tectery
"""''"' 
FOLLOW THESES EASY STEPS 
o·tt~r •·0' ..,, 
I (.t"l'"t.: I''" '"t' ~··elf~'• tlf 0"" 
• M.t••· 1111"(• <TlQ"!Pyl')ti'lt-> O' cor""'•I•tt• c.•t<CJ·• , ..,o "'''Jtrnt~•or oa'(d 0•..,10(~ S '1( 
4 f.,. en.-., • .......,. ~oo·• \'\ & or>O"r 'J''Of'< ... I"(JHJf-' 
~ /V4 d ·"'G',.,41•C"' r~, 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. lOUD Carter ltl.
a., • ._., Ollie 441 ,, 
216/241-2416 
Conlacl Le11s Suppl•e•s 
tot 25 years l'leu• ...., ,... !It ellly e pllir. UN0 
.,....,., '--• 
• sw,..., ....... __::2'-'.o-'-o_ 
.,.... 
111ne ..........,..
_,
,.,........,....... 
_....
... 
VISA ~ 
1Pe•sonet Cnecks must be c~l'ed prl()l' 10 lh!pi'Tlllnll 
--·-----­........--.............
.••..~......"''""'*"......
,... ,
•tO·.•·.... .................. .. 
__.., .....-, •• "" -.,.4 '" 
,._, 

The Oboerver /Ores Srranser 

Notre Dame tennis player Natalie 11/ig hits a serve in a match earlier this spring. Illig was a pleasant surprise as the women's ten­nis team split pafr ofmatches against Ohio State and Miami (Ohio) this past weekend. Christopher Koster has the details at right. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
between us and second place was not so far as it might indicate." 
In fact, the Irish dropped a few places in the standings when Richard Connelly mistakenly hit a putt from the wrong mark. 
"Richard penalized himself when he realized he putted from the wrong spot, and that meant a two­stoke penalty," noted O'Sullivan. "Had it not been for that, we would have finished three positions better, so you can see the difference that a stoke or two makes in the final standings." 
The Notre Dame golfers averag­ed 80.9 for the tournament, com­pared to the Buckeyes winning average of 75. Chad Willis of Ohio St. was named medalist of the tourney shooting a two-day total of 147 (73.5 average). Leading the way for the Irish was senior Lon Huffman, who had the best round 
(78) among the Irish. 
"He (Lon) was a key factor in helping us finish respectably," said O'Sullivan. 
Huffman, who had a 158 total, also finished among the top 30 golfers for the tournament. 
Irish captain John O'Donovan shot a 78 and 82 for a total of 160, and junior Chris Bona shot 80-82 (162). Senior Steve Fuhrer stroked 84-81 (165), and Richard Connelly finished 81-87 (168). 
"Our nemesis was in our approach shots," he said. "They just kept missing the greens and instead landed in the sand traps or the ruff. 
Though our putting was average, it was our misplayed approach shots that made it difficult to even save pars in the tournament." 
O'Sullivan, though, feels his team will be firing on all cylinders in the upcoming Kent State Invitational which begins Thursday and con­cludes on Saturday . 
"The Kent State tournament will feature 13 teams, with each team comprised of 6 men," said O'Sullivan. "I have always felt that our team is much more competitive playing with six players than we are with five. So, this tournament could be exactly what the doctor ordered. 

Women down OSU, fall to Miami (Ohio) 
By CHRISTOPHER KOSTER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team continued with its strong playing to post a win over Ohio State and a tough loss to Miami (Ohio) in two away games this past weekend. 
The Irish challenge to the two Ohio universities began with the victory over a talented Ohio State squad. 
"We were very steady," said Irish head coach Michele Gelfman. "No one had a really big game for Ohio State, so it was easy to capitalize on their weaknesses." 
The number-one singles player for the Irish, Susie Panther, spark­ed the squad by defeating Kris Col­giazier of Ohio State, 6-3, 6-1. Mary Colligan followed stride, tak­ing her Ohio opponent Yvonne Lehrer, 6-3, 6-3. The third and fourth-place players for the Irish added a win and a loss. Michelle Dasso pulled out a close match over Ohio State's Jodi Saunders, 7-6, 6­4, followed by a narrow victory for Ohio State when Christine Peterson defeated lzzy O'Brian 6-4, 4-6, 7-6. 
The weekend also brought about a temporary change in Notre Dame's normal singles and doubles flights. Joanne Biafore, comfor­tably playing in the number-five position, was unable to travel with the squad because of the MCAT testing. Thus, Tammt Schmidt was bumped up to the number-five spot and freshman Natalie Illig, general­ly in the exhibition match, took the number-six flight. Schmidt defeated Michele DeCosmo of Ohio and Illig lost an exciting match 7-6, 5-7, 6-4. 
"Natalie played her best tennis all year," said Gelfman. "It's very en­couraging to find. 
"Against Miami (ohio) we need­ed to have a big game. I think the girls were a little intimidated, thus they played a little more timidly." 
This match against reputable Miami (Ohio) ended in a 6-2 loss for the Irish, putting their overall record at 14-4. The number-one singles game was suspended because the other matches, h~d been completed and this game would have made no difference in the final outcome. The matches of the day culminated in the Irish dropp­ing four out of five in singles ac­tion. However, a fine performance was turned in by Illig and a come­from-behind victory over Miami's Leslie Riblet, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3. 
Gelfman noted the team has been playing on the road a great deal and feels they are, "learning more and more what they are capable of, and what needs improvement." 
In doubles play the Irish top team of Panther-Dasso was vic­torius, 7-6, 2-6, 6-3. Colligan and O'Brien dropped their match to Miami's Boyle-Brovovich. The number-three team of Schmidt-Illig lost to Filus and Mill, 6.-1, 3-6, 6-2. 
On the horizon the women's team will travel to Kalamazoo, Mich. on April 23 as the team tries to remain aggressive in a series of games to close out the season. 

ND tops BGSU, 6-3, despite lack of 'polish' 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 

Nobody ever said it had to be pretty. Notre Dame's tennis team showed its own version of winning ugly yesterday by slipping past Bowling Green, 6-3. 
Head Coach Tom Fallon said he could take the win, regardless of its lack of polish. 
"We' really just played well enough to win," he said. "I'm not real excited by our performance, but it's still a win." 
Dan Walsh lost a tough 1-6,7-5 match, but the supporting cast came through for five singles vic­tories. Number-two player Brian 

Attention Clubs and Halls 
Due to LaFortune Renovations, the Treasurer's Office is closing early. 
All check requests for 1985-86 funds MUST be received by 

MONDAY, APRIL 28 at 4pm 
in the Treasurer's Office 2nd floor Lafortune 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
..::·:·:·:~ .. 

•, ,:; 
Kalbas was a 6-4, 6-2 winner, 
number-three Tim Carr breezed to 
a 6-2, 6-1 win, and Tony Cahill 
struggled to a 7-6, 6-3 victorv. 
Dave Reiter kept the tnsh mov­ing with a 6-2, 6-2 sweep, and Tom 'Grier battled his way to a 6-2, 6-7, 6-3 win. 
The Irish lineup was shuffled a bit because Paul Daggs suffered an eye infection. The injury should keep him out of action until this weekend's play, which Is hard for the sophomore to accept. 
"It's really hard to sit and watch 
your teammates fight to win when 
you can't help them," Daggs said. 
"I really want to contribute." 
The doubles competition was shortened to a single, ten-game set. Carr and Reiter moved up to number-one doubles team with the Walsh-Daggs team unable to com­pete, and won, 10-5. Cahill and Joe Nelligan were defeated, 6-10, at the number-two spot, and the new team of Grier and Kalbas took an early lead, but couldn't hold on, losing, 9-10. 
The Irish are now 20-8 on the season and head to Chicago for a .match against DePaul tomorrow before taking on two tough squads, 
Michigan State and Kalamazoo, 
this weekend. 

Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 



St. Louis Blues goaltender Greg Millen knocks Toronto last night, as the Maple Leafs pulled out a 
the puck off the stick of Minnesota North Stars 5-2 victory and took a 2-1 lead in the series. center Neal Broten in an NHL playoff game last Calgary also took a 2-1 series lead over Edmonton, week. Millen and the Blues were unable to stop nipping the Oilers by a 3-2 score. 
WEDNESDAY n Band II 
~~~~=ll;tt.t eeIll If you like ZZ Top, Alabama. and Harley Davidsons, then you'll like "Rocket 88". Come get a taste of Early Blues and Grass Roots knee slapping 
music! Also, Draft Specials! 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1089 239-7521 


Wednesday, April23, 1986-page 11 Berke Breathed The Far Side 
oda 

J0661NG IS 01/r. M010f<CYCL/N6 15 01/r. flf/NCIN& IS ()(/f. SW/!YI-­\  WHI/f fi/JOVT. .. t:N.• 'f(}() KNOW ...  WHflft  YW KNOW•••  RJOt!N' AI?OIJNfJ IS (}(ff. \  

\ 

Headhunter hall closets. 
1986 Tnbune Med1a Services, Inc. 4/23/86All Roghts Reserved 
























The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
Cl 1988 UniYI!II'UI Preas Syndicate

ACROSS 1-monster 5 linguini 
10 Saint's sign 
*6:15p.m.-meeting, Center for Social Con­
14 Thanks -1 
cerns, Sponsored by Circle K 
15 Hints of things to come 16 D.C. office 
*6:30p.m.-meeting, Center for Social Con­
17 Is In a precarious 
cerns, Sponsored by Women United for 
position 
Justice and Peace 
20 Dartmouth's town 21 Mythical enchantress 
*7 p.m.-meeting, Keenan/Stanford Chapel, 
22 Rake 
Sponsored by Christian Fellowship 
23 Military force 25 Tree 28 Lily plant 
*7 p.m., 9 p.m., II p.m. -movie, "Summer
29 Matterhorn or Mont Blanc 
of '42", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored 
32 US novelist 
by Student Activities Board, $1 
33 Scot. county 34 Remote 35 Taking a 
chance 
Beached whale surprise 39 Comic Buttons 
40 Defense system 41 God of war 42 US humorist Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
George 7 Capitol Hill 43 Busy one man: abbr. 
FL I TIFALSEICORD 44 Sign of 8 Explosive 
A U T 0 A L A T E E L I A affection letters 
..1)!~ 0 N S I D E R A T E L Y 46 The -Ranger 9 Tree 
R A H • 0 ~=W M E A L S
47 Pear 10 A sweetener 
.AN 
E UAR­
48 Hong Kong 11 Eager 
C 0 N N A I S S A N C E 

neighbor 12 Collar style 
S 0 AIR s•E R NIE s•o R D 
51 Skilled worker 13 Olive genus 
A N TIE GIA E LIS TIR U E 
55 Behind the 18 Revelry cry 
IDE.MARNE.GAMER
8-ball of old 59 Soaks up 19 Entangle: var. 
C 0 N V E R-1 0 N. 60 Has being 23 Chilly 
-ELY MRS 61 Assents at sea 24 Defeat 
S H A N E • E T A P E.,.k. .4-J. 62 Dagger of old decisively 
CONTiMPORAiEOUS 
63 Winner at 25 Hollywood 
A L 0 E 0 I L E R A G R A Gettysburg director 
M E N D E C L A T R 0 A R 64 Not so much 26 Eyed In a way 27 "Cloister and 4/23/86 
DOWN the Hearth" 37 Lunch hour 50 May or Ann 1 Deep cut author 38 Ludicrous 52-terrier 2 Writer Chase 28 Sadat 44 Whodunit item 53 Porter and 3 Bank deal 29 Flaming 45 lt. town stout 4 Perry Mason 30 -and penates 46 Fault 54 Promontory 
"Open tne gate! It's a big -lner dogl"
for one 31 Fourth estate 47 Barked 56 Shade tree 5 Snob of a kind 33 Concur 48 Fall short 57 Even score 6 Love II. style 36 Type of sport 49 Soon 58 Power letters 





The Student Activities Board presents~
Student Activities Board presents 



SUMMER of '42 
o+ 

Wednesday, April 23 Thursday, Apri124 
co 

7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 pm Engineering Auditorium 
co

$1.00 
Please no food or drink in auditorium. 
Please no food or drink In auditorium. 


s orts 
Bookstore field is narrowed down; 15 of 16 pre-tourney seeds advance 
By MIKE CA.RDINALE Unfortunately for The Fugitive "It got pretty intense, and Sports Writer Guys, the reward for yesterday's everyone responded to that," he hard-fought victory is a date with said. "We tried to play tough 
The Bookstore Basketball XV the top-seeded Fun Bunch Finale, defense and get as many fast-break commissioners proved to be as ef­today at 6:15 p.m. on Bookstore points as possible. We wound up fective prognosticators , as Court 9. The Fun Bunch had little with a lot of follow-up shots. organizers this year, as 15 of the 16 problem dispensing with Fatback "Also, we were really tough 
teams originally seeded at the yesterday, winning 21-10 behind underneath. Joel (Williams) pretty beginning of the tournament ad­Rick DiBernardo's 7-of-9 shooting much cleared out the middle for vanced to the sweet .16 in yeston­performance. Pat Collins added six Casey (Newell) and Tim (Brown) to d!IY'S action. In llddition, the only buckets for the winners. grab rebounds." seed to lose, Showtime, did so in Much More Manhood coasted to Manhood reached the final four the closest contest of the day, a 25-the quickest victory yesterday, last year, and have made only one 
23 loss at the hands of Bud Melmon largely because of the great play of change in lineup, replacing Joe and the Fugitive Guys. Mike Huber. Huber shot 10-of-12 Howard with Newell. Huber feels and pulled down 12 rebounds as this year's team is better overall. 
The Fugitive Guys won the game Manhood thrashed Betti Lou 21-7. "We are a better team defensive­with two pressure free throws after The victory came without the ser­ly, and we put more pressure in the Showtime had it tied at 23-23. Tim vices of Rick Muench, whose injury middle. Offensively, we really Woods led the winners with eight will sideline him until at least Fri­haven't had a chance to play out of baskets on 18 attempts and nine re­day, should Manhood reach the a set-up offense because of the fast bounds. Teammate Kevin O'Brien final eight. Pat Flynn played in his break, but we feel we can in the shot 7-out-of-15, while Tim place, but did not contribute any next round." Kenesey and Mike Rimkus chipped baskets to the victory. Much More Manhood will face 
The Observer/Bob Jones

in four points apiece. Kim Adams The action under the basket was Keenan Inmates n· today at 6:15 played impressively for the losers, intense throughout the game, and p.m. on Stepan Court 1. The In-, Mark Polaski of the Minahoonies puts up a shot in traffic shooting 10-of-16 and pulling down Huber felt the intensity was the key against Four Fags and a Zahmbie in Bookstore action yesterday. 
seven rebounds. to Manhood's victory. see BOOKSTORE, page 8 Four Fags won the contest, 21-18, and earned a spot in the final 
16. Mike Cardinale details all ofyesterday's games at left. 
ND golf team performs well in Ohio's Kepler Invitational 
16th-place finish with a total of
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 645.
Sports Writer 
Despite the low finish position, 
The Notre Dame golf team spent the Irish can take solace in the fact the weekend in Columbus, Ohio, that they fared better than fifth­where it joined 21 other teams in ranked Kentucky and sixth-ranked an abbreviated Kepler Invitational Kent State. Coach Noel tourney. The tournament, which O'Sullivan, who was hopeful of a was hosted by Ohio State, was top finish, did not feel his squad shortened to 36 holes from the played all that poorly. scheduled 54 because of rainy and cold conditions on Sunday. "Finishing sixteenth in the stan­
The invitational was won by the dings doesn't look good, but our host Buckeyes, who finished the team numbers were good in com­event with a team total of 602. parison," said O'Sullivan. "Ohio Miami (Ohio) finished second, a State without question was the class full20 strokes behind Ohio St. The of the field, but the difference Irish, however, found the going rough, as they could only muster a see IRISH, page 9 


Chuck pops a quiz on ND trivia buffs 
Hello again, everybody! 
Answers 
I am firmly convinced that the worst two-word phrase (1) Orlando Woolridge and John Paxson (Chicago), • 
in the English language is "pop quiz." In four years at Chuck Kelly Tripucka and Bill Laimbeer (Detroit), Adrian 
Notre Dame, I have heard this phrase used too many Dantley (Utah) and Bill Hanzlik (Denver). 2) Walt times (once is too many times), and I know the fear it can Patulski by Buffalo in 1972. 3) Dave Poulin
Freeby

strike. 
(Philadelphia), Jack Brownschidle (Hartford) and Don
Irish Items 

OK folks. Time for a pop quiz. 
Jackson (Edmonton). 4) Gary Brokaw (lona), Pete Gillen Fortunately, this one's for fun. NO pressure, no grade, (Xavier), Danny Nee (Ohio) and Gene Sullivan (Loyola). 
no problem. Just get the gang together and see if anybody 
(12) During that same year, the Notre Dame basketball 5) Cap Anson. 
can come up with the answers to these "stumpers" on the team was ranked atop the AP poll for one week. Who did 6) Notre Dame volleyball coach Art Lambert coached subject of Notre Dame sports. 
the Irish beat to get to the top spot, and who knocked the U.S. water polo team in 1972. 7); Irish field hockeyFamous Alumni .•. 
coach Jill Lindenfeld was a player on the '80 field hockeythem off? 
(1) Name the six former Irish basketball players still (13) How many national championships has the foot­team. 8) With a win over Bowling Green yesterday, Tom playing in the NBA. 
Fallon now owns 553 career wins (484 in tennis and 69 inball team won? 
(2) Name the last Irish football player to be taken as (14) Which Notre Dame coach won the most AP na­wrestling), one more than former baseball coach Jake the top choice in the NFL draft. 
Kline with 552. 9) Fencing coach Mike DeCicco holds the tional championships? 
(3) Name the three Irish hockey players playing in the Notre Dame record for winning percentage with the foil
(15) Notre Dame has won the national championship in 

NHL. 
posting a career mark of .918 (45-4). 10) Wrestling coach 
two other sports besides football. What are they? 

(4) Name four former Notre Dame basketball Fran McCann finished third at 115 pounds in the 1962 assistants who are now NCAA coaches. 
For the Record ••• wrestling tournament. 
(5) Name the only Notre Dame alumnus in the Baseball (16) Which NFL player holds the Notre Dame record 11) The last time a top-ranked Irish football team won Hall of Fame. 
for the 60-yard dash? was on September 21, 1974 when it defeated Nor­Coaches' Comer •.• (17) Which active player holds the Irish record for thwestern, 49-3. 12) The Irish beat UCLA, 71-70 at the 
(6) Name the Irish coach who won a bronze medal at aSsists in field hockey? ACC to become number one, but lost to UCLA one week the 1972 Summer Olympics. (18) Who holds the record for the lowest score on the later, 94-75, at Pauley Pavilion. 13) Seven. 14) Frank 
(7) Name the Irish head coach who was a member of Leahy. 15) Fencing and men's tennis. 
Burke Memorial Golf Course? the 1980 Olympic team. (19) Which NFL player holds the Irish wrestling record 16) Greg Bell (6.32 seconds). 17) Molly McCabe. 18) 
(8) Which coach has more wins than anyone in the for fastest pin? Mike O'Connell fired a 64 at Burke in 1963. 19) Mike school's history. (20) Which current Irish player owns the school's all-Golic (14 seconds). 20) Joe Franklin has 150 points. 
(9) This coach still holds a record at his alma mater for 21) Vince Boryla (1948) and Adrian Dantley (1976). 22) 
time record for lacrosse scores? •: individual winning percentage. Name him. Chuck Aragon. 
(10) As an athlete, this coach finished third in the The Olympics ••• Pick of the Week ••. It's a big week for athletics out­NCAA championships in 1963. Name him. 
(21) Two Notre Dame basketball players have won side the realm of varsity competition. If you think it's fun Number One ••• gold medals in the Olympics. Name them. to run, offer your encouragement to the folks in the 
(11) When was the last time the Notre Dame football (22) In 1984, Sydney Maree edged this former Notre Grace Hall 24-hour Run on Friday and Saturday at the team won while it was ranked number one? For a bonus, Dame star in the final Olympic trials for the mile run. Fieldhouse Mall. Proceeds go to Northeast who did the Irish beat that day? Name this Irish track man. Neighborhood Services. 







