Snite Museum -page 8 


South Shore Rallroad may have to eliminate South Bend service 
ByDAVIDT.LEE 
News Stoff 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu· dents who usc the South Shore Rail· road to travel to Chicago soon may have to find a new mode of transportation. 
The South Shore, plagued by million-dollar debts, may eliminate its passenger service to South Bend If it Is unable to obtain further income from the Indiana legislature, according to john Robbins, a senior analyst for the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District. 
"It's premature to guess at this point, but there's a possibility that South Bend may be eliminated (from passenger service)," said Rob· bins. "The solution will likely Impart ... a reduction in services." 
Such a reduction, he added, would mean that services-would run only from Chicago to Michigan City, Ind. 
The South Shore has a S4.8 million deficit, according to Robbins. Operating costs for the railroad amounted to approximately Sl7.6 million, while passenger fares and the state of Indiana provided only U 3.9 million in income, he said. 
Skyrocketing electric and In· surance costs are part of the problem. "liability insurance has gone up substantially," said State Representative D. Patrick Bauer, D· South Bend, "(which has) tremen· dously increased costs." 
A recent fare increase of 10/ will be augmented by another 5/ In· crease on February 1. "It'll be a por· tion of the solution," said Robblns,"but as long as there's no stable revenue from the counties themselves, the service Itself will be in jeopardy." 
The Indiana legislature has been reluctant to ball out the railroad. Bauer, who estimates the deficit runs at only S1.5 to S2 million, believes the NICTD "has to come In with better figures." He added that "If they can substantiate the evidence ... they may put In a loan." So far, however, the NICID "hasn't convinced the Indiana legislature." 
The NICTD, which operates the South Shore's passenger service, Is required by contract obligations to provide the necessary revenue to administer the service. One plan Included the usage of Income generated by the Toll Road, which is operating above costs. But the plan was not accepted by the legislature. Additionally, residents of four In· diana counties, including St. joseph County, have rejected a plan propos· lng a gasoline tax, which would be used to fund the railroad. 
Even If the railroad does receive additional funds to stay alloat, there is no guarantee the same problems will not arise next year, Robbins said. It will "always be a long term problem, given a lack of local sup· port," he added. 
He said as a . result, the railroad may curtail Its service or eliminate the NICTD altogether. 
Notre Dame professor emeritus dies in South Bend home at 81 
ND trustee discusses social life, alcohol use 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO 
Senior StoffReporter 
The issue of social life on campus is too Important to overlook, ac­cording to Board of Trustees mem­ber Terrence Keeley. 
"'lllcse party rooms arc not being used and the students are displeased with the social life. Creativity Is being stifled," said Keeley, who sought Input from the student senate at a Saturday afternoon con­ference. 
"I sec this as a valuable oppor­tunity to see that some of the issues students fcc:l Important are raised," said Kec:ley, one of two board mem­bers under the age of 30. 
Much of the talk about the social 
life on campus dealt with the im­
plementation ofthc alcohol policy. 
"Drinking on campus was a 
problem," said Keeley, "A serious 
change In the rules had to be made 
and the Board was completely sup­
ponlvc of the effort." 
"There arc occasions where 
mature drinking should be per­
mitted, but those situations have not 
yet arisen In the minds of the ad­
ministration", said Keeley, who 
serves on the Academic and Faculty 
Affairs Committee. 
The belief that the heavy drinker 
has been forced behind close doors 
was expressed by many Senate 
see TRUSTEE, page 3 
SMC administrator settles into new post 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StoffReporter 
Although she has had the job for only one week, Saint Mary's new director ofstudent activities already Is planning one of her first projects. 
The new director is Mary Ellen Smith and one of her first projects will be Improving fresh­man orientation, she said. 
Smith plans to establish a fresh­men orientation course that she said has been used succesfully at many colleges nationwide. The course would help students as­similate Into their new environ­ment and would help freshhmen get to know themselves and their new community, she said. 
Now, however, Smith said she is trying to get used to the new post. 
"It's an Incredibly big job. There are many responsibilities that I wouldn't have Imagined," she said. 
"I'm just trying to get It all In and straightened away. I want to keep up with what's already going," she said. 
"I'm trying to meet people and get a grasp on procedures and policies," Smith said. Soon, however, she said she hopes to begin work on spring com­mencement, the senior trip and fall orientation. 
Smith replaces Mary Ann O'Donnell, who left the student activities department in good shape, Smith said. 
She said a visit to Saint Mary's inftuenced her decision to take the job. "I was so totally Impressed by the students and faculty," she said. "The students care and take action about what happens to them now and In the future. 
"It was a real refreshing atmo­sphere," Smith said. "I like the energy you feel on campus." 
Smith said she is also Impressed by Saint Mary's view towards women adminlstartors. "The administration has a real high regard for professional women. There Is a commitment here," she said. That commit­ment Is lacking at some othercol­leges, she said. 
For the past three and a half years Smith has worked In the admissions department of In­carnate Word College in San An· 
see SMITH, page 4 
Special to The Obt!erftr 
Stephen Kertesz, professor emeritus of government and inter· national studies at Notre Dame and former Hungarian minister, died . yesterday morning at his South Bend home. 
Kertesz had suffered a heart attack earlier In the month. He was 81. Funeral services will be Tuesday at 10 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Kertesz joined Notre Dame's political science department in 1950, and for 25 years was respon· sible for much of the University's 
development  of  classes  and  
programs  In  the  international  
sphere.  

As a Guggenheim fellow ( 1958· 
59) and grantee of the Rockefeller Foundation ( 1965-66), he studied the new methods and problems of contemporary diplomacy In Wes· tern European countries. He received the Lay Faculty Award In 1963 and a Special Presidential Award In 1975. 
He was the Director of the Program ofSoviet and East European Studies for fifteen years, Chairman of the Committee on the International Relations and Director of the In· stitute for International Studies until his retirement in 1975. He held an honorary doctorate of law from In· diana University. 
He recieved diplomas from the Universities of Budapest and Paris; studied as a Rockefeller Fellow at Yale, Oxford and Geneva and was a docent in International Law at the University in Budapest. 

Stephen Kertesz 
In the Hungarian Foreign Mini· stry, he belonged to the group ofof­ficials which tried to keep Hungary out ofwar and later, In contact with the Allied Powers, to conclude an early armistice. After the Nazi coup d'etat In Hungary he was arrested and passed through prisons and con· centration camps, and was court· 
martlaled and accused oftreason. He 
and his family survived the seven 
week long siege on Budapest. 
lnjune 1945hewasputlncharge 
of Hungarian preparations for the 
Peace Conference. The peace aliT'~ 
notes of Hungary posed the general 
problem ofDanubian Europe In con· 
structlve terms, advocating regional 
economic solutions, deemphasis of 
nationalism, close cultural coopera­
tion, "spiritualization" of frontiers, 
self-determination of people and an 
effective International protection of 
national minorities. 
In 1947 he was appointed Mini­ster to Italy. When the Communists forced the resignation of the Prime Minister, the government ordered Kertesz to return to Budapest. At the same time Newspaper headlines In· formed the Hungarian public that he would be the new Foreign Minister. After conferences with Western -diplomates, he realized that ef· fecth:e Western support was not forthcoming for free democratic developments In Hungary and decided to refuse to return to 
Budapest. 
After his resignation from the 
foreign service he carne to America 
and joined Yale Law School as visit· 
ing Associate Professor for two years 
before coming to Notre Dame. 
The Observer Monday, january 27, 1986-page 2 
In Brief 
Phllip Michael Thomas, star of NBC-TV's fas­
hionable "Miami Vice" cop series, has unveiled a flashy line of 130,000 sportscars. "I love the car. It looks just like a 1130,000 Fer­rari, like the one on the sho'll'(, but it costs only about '30,000," said Thomas, who plans to market the cars through nationwide franchises. Under the Fiberglas body of the Machiavelli, manu&ctured in Miami, is a frame and drive train built by General Motors, which manufactures the Chevrolet Corvette sportscar. -AP 
The Bears not only competed with the Patriots on Sunday but also with the wedding of Sheldon and Barbara Sherman. The Sherman's said they didn't know when they were planning their wedding last summer that it would fall on Super Bowl Sunday. Rabbi Arnold Kaiman said he had hoped to time the service to coincide with halftime of the game. -AP 
AID~ has become the most common infectious disease in newborn infants in some parts of New York City as it spreads increasingly rapidly among children even as the adult AIDS epidemic slows, researchers said yesterday. Fighting the spread of children's AIDS may be especially difficult because most infants with AIDS are born to mothers with no outward signs ofdisease, said Dr. Howard Minkoff, director ofobstetrics at the State University ofNew York-Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. -AP 
Of Interest . 
Three SAB stores reopen today in the newly 
renovated basement of LaFortune. The stores are The Cellar, a record and clothing store, The Ticket Stub, dealing in tickets and stamps, and Irish Gardens. -The Obseroer 
Peaceful and fair elcetions will be the intention of a special mass to be celebrated today at 5:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will celebrate the Mass and give the Homily. Controversial elections, pit­ting incumbent President Ferdinand Marcos against Corazon Aquino, are scheduled for Feb 7.-The Obseroer 
A Brown Bag Seminar will be held tomorrow at noon in Room 131 of Declo Hall. It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and will be conducted by Sylvia Raw, facutly fellow. Her topic will be "Brazilian Public Enterprises: Objectives, Patterns of Finance and the Question ofAutonomy."-The Obseroer 
RASTARally Against Starvation) will be holding a meeting for anyone interested in helping with this spring's benefit concert for African &mine felief. Workers are sought to assist with publicity, fundraising, art, production and special events. The meeting is tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
You may need a dog sled to get to class today. Dangerously cold and windy on Monday with heavy snow continuing and ac­cumulating to 8 to 16 inches by evening. High 5 to 10. Bitterly cold overnight with the low 5 below to 5 above. Wind and snow diminishing by Tuesday morning. -AP 

De$lgn Edltor....•............. Andi Schnuck De$lgn Asststont ............Kathy Huston Typesener ..................... M.E. Harrington News Edltor.............. Kcith HarrisonJr. CopyEditor ........................Alex Peltzer Sports Copy Editor... Dennis Corrigan· VIewpoint Copy Editor Cindy Rauck­
horst VIewpoint Layout..........Maria Groner Dally Quotes .................... Tom Darrow 
Accent Copy Editor............Tim Adams AccentLayout.......... Mark Mcl..aushlin ND Day Edltor..............•.Ellyn Mastako SMC Day Editor.............. Priscilla Karle AdDesign......................Sharon Emmite Usa Michaux Typtsts .................................. Alex Peltzer Mark McLaughlin Jodi Shellenbarger Photographer.................. Drew Sandler 
The Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 l·~OOO) is published Monday through Friday except during exam ami vacation period.' Th., Observ.,r is published by the students ofthe l 'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fnr l.iO per year ( 120 per "<'me•ter) b\ writing Th., Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~(>~~6 
Th., Observ.,r " a member of The Assoclat.,d Prooss. All reproduction right• are 
re~~·rd 
Long search for social life will end with new attitude 
When Charles Dickens died in 1870 he left the world with a mystery -that of Edwin Drood. The English novelist had penned Master Drood's death in six of 12 contracted installments, but he was unable to reveal the murderer to his readers before natural causes claimed him. 
On the New York stage this season, director Rupert Holmes and his cast are bringing the puzzle to the public. Each night the actors perform Holmes' adapta­tion of Dickens' novel, until there is no more novel ­then they turn to the audience for a vote. Who killed Drood? Was it the demure, blushing Rosa Bud? Or the respectable Rev. Crisparkle? Or the dashing foreigner, Neville Landless? Once the audience's votes are tab­ulated, the cast finishes the play according to its patrons' wishes. 
At Notre Dame a remake of "Edwin Drood" is in production. On this off-Broadway stage, the victim is not a young Englishman, but the long-suffering Social life. As for the culprit, the 

Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-In-Chief 
With near syncronization, the spotlight shifts to the rear ofthe stage. There Father Tyson signs a 14 million check and casts a smile at the eight red girders and a block ofcement. Soon 350 will be able to dine here. 
Not all students take notice of the growing structure just west of the limestone columns. A gang of under­graduates lies by the edge of the stage with their heads slumped on their hands. They are gazing blankly into the empty beer bottles. Still others haven't even made their appearance on the stage yet. They've locked them­
selves in their dressin8 

students and administrators rooms. 
are still placing their votes. 
When the curtain rises on Now, the reason that the University ofOur Lady, a Holmes' show is enjoying a lusterless Social life lies stint on the Great White center stage. All around, stu­Way and Father Hesburgh's dents and administrators prodution is in the gather, jaws dropped and cornfields is that on Broad­fingers pointing. In a far way "The Mystery of Edwin corner of the stage a few Drood" uses a master of empty beer bottles glisten. ceremonies, a narrator, to And in the background, a a explain the details of the century-old building looms, story and encourage the with naked steel girders jut­audience to participate. ting out of an unfinished ad­Notre Dame needs some dition. dashing young character to 
"It was him," scream rush onto the stage, grab the several upperclassmen. "It spotlight, and with a voice was Father Beauchamp. He full of enthusiasm, proclaim, 
did it with his alcohol 

-~eyondthe 
-B·eyond the foot 
What a\vaits an N
-.
in the real world? 
Find out from tho-se who know. 
Come discuss "Life alter Notre 
•
Dame" with Alumni Association 
-.
members. •• •• 
When? Jan. 30th, 9:00p.m.::. Where? Rotunda •••••••••• 
-Administration
........
... 
••••••••• . . 
policy." 
As the executive assistant to the president stands resolutely and mumbles something about respon­sibility and liability and the law, a senior stoops to ex­plain to a few curious freshmen about Dillon beer baths, with Old Milwaukee flying and Domers tottering. 
Meanwhile, Joni Neal, director of student activities, crumbles under the pressure of glaring students. "We give!" she sputters. "What kind of activities do you really want?" (She repeats this col)fession in a letter to the editor, January 16.) Clenched in her fist is an in­creased budget she received from boosted student ac­tivity fees. 
Just then a group of students -most of them class officers and several cowering SAB chiefs -throw their arms into the air in frustration. Some wanted to stomp off the stage right then, but a few die-hards put their shoulder to the grindstone in an attempt to revive So­cial life. 
"Hey Domers, this is your university; this is your life. Take it into your own hands and have fun." 
With such inspiration the stage soon would be alive with excitement, because attitudes are contagious. Sud­denly Neal stops stammering and works with students to plan activities and events. Students wake up to take responsibility for their own social life. 
Then, as strains ofthe Victory March float up from the orchestra pit, the now-glowing Social life leaps to her feet. But no one seems to notice, because they have realized that Social life was never really an individual character to kick around, spill beer on, or complain about. Social life is a part of each and every character. And each character can decide what to do with it. He or she can make the most ofit, or stay locked in his or her dressing room. 
erf.! Life 
····No? 
c:>~alltllaf-H. ICIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER In~ '1\:Jr'l Stati Stan~ H Kaplan ECiucaiiOnal r.enteiiHI TEST l'flEMRATlON SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
CALL DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soulh Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 35 

~~-----~----------------­
The Observer Monday,January 27, 1986-page 3 
Notre Dame welcomes 20-year wait ends for Bears fans; returning volunteers Chicago celebrates Super Bowl win 
By KENDRA MORRILL  Kathy Bego, who studied  
NewsSwff  developmental economics, said  
she wanted to go to a third world  CHICAGO -Chicago fans, denied  
While Many Notre Dame  country to see how the people  a major sports championship for  
graduates leave school to enter the  there viewed their situation. She  more than two decades, erupted.in  
working world, some decide to ex­ said she contemplated entering  delirious celebrations from one end  
perience a quite different world, as  the Peace Corps, but then realized  of the city to the other yesterday as  
Holy Cross Associates in Chile.  that she "wanted to go through a  their beloved Bears won the Super  
Notre Dame will be welcoming  religious organization to explore  Bowl.  
four of of these volunteers back  my own faith." Bego said the HCA  "They're the best team ever," ex­ 
from their two and a half year com­ gave her this opportunity.  claimed Kirk Zaranti, 31, ofChicago,  
mitments during the next week  According to the four As­ who was at the Hotsie Totsie Club in  
and a half as the Holy Cross As­ sociates, daily life in Chile is vastly  the crowded Rush Street bar district  
S<>ciates Transition Program takes  different from daily life in the  to watch the Bears trample the New  
place on campus.  United States.  England Patriots 46-I0.  
1983 Notre Dame graduates  "This will make this city better,"  
Cecl Schickel, Brian McGlinn, Jack  Schneider and Bego spent time  Zaranti said. "It's already the best  
Schneider, and Kathy Bego will be  in El Transito, a northern com­ city. It's a city of real pe!Jple-a city  
participating in the transition  munity made up of small subsis­ ofGermans, a city ofltalians, a city of  
program this year. McGlinn, Bego,  tence farms. Schneider  Greeks."  
and Schneider returned home in  described his average day as con·  
December after ending their com­ sisting mainly of teaching, working  Hundreds of happy fans, many  
mitments In Chile, while Schickel  in the garden, and visiting the sick  wearing Bears headbands, gathered  
arrived early in june because of ill­ and those interested in the church.  in the bitter cold to watch the Super  
ness.  A main objective was "to help the  Bowl on a 20-by-30-foot outdoor  
All four will present a slide show  people take more responsibility  television screen at downtown  
of their experiences Tuesday at 7  for their own celebration of their  

Earn Over $1000 A Month While Still In School! 
It's part of the Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate 
Program. And the money you can earn while still In school Is 
Just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with immediate authoritY and responslbllltv. This Is the onlv program of Its kind In the world. 
To qualifY you must be between the ages of nineteen and twentY-six, be In good health and meet stringent academic reaulrements. 
A Navy Engineering Programs Specialist 
wiJJ be on campUS February 5 & 6, 1986 
For more information call toll-free l-soo-3e2-94o4) Mon-Wed) 8:30am-2Pm. 
------Lead the Adventure------­
p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. 
The Holy Cross Associates Program in Chile, with associate communities in the capital city of Santiago and the small northern village of El Transitu, is in its seventh year ofexistence. 
According to McGlinn, his time in Santiago was a "humanizing ex­perience. You give of yourself but receiveS<> much more." 
Each Associate's reasons for pursuing such an experience vary, yet most said they share the desire to deepen their faith in a way that could not be accomplished by at­tending mass, continuing studies, or entering a profession. 
Juniors 
& 
Seniors 
In Engineering, Physics, ChemistrY and Math. 
faith, rather than depend on us," said Schneider. 
To Schickel, her work in Chile "Is an integral part ofthe whole life process. It Isn't two years out ofmy life; it is two years in my life." 
McGlinn said his experience af­fected the way that he looks at his own faith and at God. 
"I saw the struggles ofthe poor," said McGlinn. "Now I see a deeper meaning ofwhat jesus had in mind when He said to give up your possessions and follow Him." 
Anyone interested in exploring the Holy Cross Associates Program in Chile should contact Mary Ann Roemer, associate director. 
Trustee 
continuedfrom page 1 
members during the two hour meeting. 
"They (the administration) have not taken the most creative ap­proach," said Keeley, "We need more creative responses to the problem." 
Keeley also pointed out that the Board of Trustees is concerned about all aspects ofthe University. 
"The Board is supporting growth in the library, computerization of the school, and the situation with minorities and bright students who can't come to Notre Dame", said Keeley. 
Daley Plaza, renamed Bears Plaza for the day. 
"All the real Bear fans are here," said 7-year-oldjeremiah Winns, who carried a teddy bear wrapped in winter clothes as protection against a wind chill that registered at 36 below. 
At one point, the crowd reached nearly 1,500, but it began to thin as the game progressed and the cold took its toll. 
Shopping centers closed early. Refrigerettes cheerleaders -as un­abashed about their bulk as 300­pound defensive tackle William "The Refrigerator" Perry -rooted for their team at a downtown fitness club. A high school band staged a parade. 
Thanos Grigoriou, 36, of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Jo Anne Baboulas of Chicago began their wedding ceremony at the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church just as the game kicked off. "I didn't realize it was a Super Bowl Day" when the wedding date was set four months ago, Grigoriou said. 
In suburban Bloomingdale, Shel­don and Barbara Sherman faced the same problem at their wedding. 
Rabbi Arnold Kalman, who kept an eye on his 2-inch television, said he had hoped to time the service to coincide with halftime. "It was the pre-game festivities that threw me off," he said. 
Most Chicagoans count 1963 as the year of the city's last major sports championship, when it captured two. Loyola upset power­house Cincinnati 60-58 in overtime in the NCAA basketball final. Then the Bears defeated the New York Giants 14-l0 in the NFL title game. 
In pre-game festivities Saturday night, Bears fans jammed Rush Street, where police early yesterday arrested 30 people on diS<>rderly conduct charges. All were released on bond. 
"There is a very large committ· ment to new scholarship funds. Scholarship money is high priority", said Keeley. 
"Generally, I was impressed by the caliber of individuals on the Board," said Keeley, "There are great business leaders, great politi­cal leaders and people who really want to do the best thing for the Uni­versity." 
Keeley also emphasized that the Board is composed of many people who care about the University and want direct input. 
"The Board is much more liberal than the student body thinks," said Keeley, "I think that the Trustees are excellent stewards of the Univer­sity." 
Keeley pointed out the strength of the Board saying that the Board will be extremely influential when it comes to choosing the next presi­dent of the University. 
"The Board does run the place," said Keeley, "It selects the president, it has incredible influence on the direction ofthe University." 
"The next president will be elected without pressure from the present administration," said Keeley. 
Keeley also reflected on his ex­periences and what he has gotten out ofhis years of Notre Dame. 
"We have to cling to our most im­portant identity which I happen to regard as our Catholic identity," said Keeley. 

SI' I~ IN G I\h~~~ 
r-1.
iM 
.. 
OFFICIAL POSTER OFFER: for a 17" x 21" Daytona ~;;-;;:-..., send $1.00 with your name and address to: Daytona Beach Poster I 1 Ollar. 500 Third Ave. West, Seattle, WA 98119. 1 
1 Name Addless I 
I City Slate Zip D I 
L-------------------~ 

--~ 1 
The Observer Monday, january 27, 1986-page 4 
Congress returns to battle with Reagan over budget cuts 
on the same program, however, would not only be all right, it when you have to sell the garage to will deal in general terms with that he believes "a tax increase will would be highly desirable." 
pay the mortgage," says House Reagan's themes and goals for the 
WASHINGTON Congress be necessary if we are to comply Lawmakers also are less than en­Speaker Thomas O'Neill Jr. 
remaining three years of his returns today for an election-year with Gramm-Rudman-Hollings." thusiastic about Reagan's White House officials say Reagan 
presidency, they said. 
battle with President Reagan over White House Chief of Staff "privatization" plans to sell some plans to make a comparatively The president will outline his 
budget cuts, tues and spending Donald Regan said on ABC's "This government assets, such as the brief, nationally broadcast address specific legislative proposals in a priorities that promises to turn Week With David Brinkley" that Tennessee Valley Authority, to before a joint session of the House special, written message to into a political bloodletting of the president wants to fight the private interests. "It's an admission 
and Senate starting at 9 p.m. EST Congress which he plans to sign in Super Bowl proportions. deficit and to stress "privatization" that you're in pretty bad shape 
tomorrow. The 20-minute speech an Oval Office ceremony. Even before the president of government assets, such as delivers his State of the Union Amtrak, by selling them to the address tomorrow night, congres­private sector. 
Nicaraguan aid debated in House 
sional Democrats were maneuver­"H there is a tax increase that ing to focus attention on big, comes forward, albeit with a few As8oclated Press "There's a lot of skepticism up say the president cannot count on politically unpopular domestic deficit cuts, I think that he will look here about (the lethal aid), and their support for open military aid. spending cuts in the fiscal 1987 at it, but I don't think that he will WASHINGTON President when you factor in the Gramm­Some congressmen expressed budget Reagan will propose on buy it," Regan said. He expressed Reagan faces a tough but poten­Rudman limits, I'd have to say now concern over the size of Reagan's Feb. 4. doubt that "the trigger's going to tially winnable battle to resume that r don't think they have the expected request at a time when 
Some legislators say it may take be pulled" to set in motion the military aid to rebels fighting to votes," said Rep. Dante Fascell, D­the Gramm-Rudman act is forcing $80 billion in total cuts to reduce automatic Gramm-Rudman cuts. overthrow Nicaragua's leftist Fia., House Foreign Affairs Com­deep cuts in domestic and military the federal budget deficit to S144 Lawmakers "have to come to government, according to an As­mittee chairman, who sided with spending. billion next year, the target set by grips with the fact that it's a sociated Press survey of key swing Reagan on non-lethal aid last year Reagan partisans say that if the the new Gramm-Rudman budget­trillion-dollar budget and, by votes. but lists himself as undecided on president can present the military balancing law. george, we just can't be spending In the Democratic-controlled lethal aid. aid request as part of a strategy for 
Reagan's refusal to accept any that kind of money," Regan said. House, where the main legislative An AP survey of 33 swing votes forcing the Nicaraguan govern­revenue-raising tax increases or Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., battle will be fought, only a few from last year's congressional ment to negotiate seriously with any slowdown in his military buil­senate Budget Committee chair­swing congressmen said they were battles over aid to the Contra the opposition, Congress might dup, they say, almost certainly will man, said on the same program leaning toward voUn.g with Reagan rebels found 13 "against or leaning well support him. result in a bitter and prolonged that compromise was needed. He on lethal military aid, but that against" Reagan's lethal aid plan, deadlock with Congress unless the reiterated that the country "could could be enough for the president 1 7 undecided or not available and They cite also the strong con­president is willing to com­easily stand an import fee on considering the 64-vote majority three "leaning for." gressional distaste for Nicaragua's promise. foreign oil." But he termed he gained for non-lethal aid last But since Reagan had a 64-vote close military ties to the Soviet 
Senate Finance Committee Gramm-Rudman "an excellent year. victory margin on the non-lethal Union and Cuba and the San­Chairman Robert Packwood, R­tool" to force Congress to cut the Democrats, however, note that aid vote last June, the Democrats dinistas' crackdown on internal Ore., said on NBC's "Meet the deficit. Reagan's expected proposal for must win back nearly all the swing dissent. Press" that Congress would House Majority Leader Jim S 1 00 million in military and votes or persuade other House Although the CIA provided the produce a t2X revision bill by Wright, D-Texas, predicted that logistical aid will go to a Congress members who normally back the rebels with an estimated S80 mil­August at the latest. He said he told the deep cuts required by the doubtful about his Nicaraguan president to switch. lion in covert military aid from Reagan this weekend he could "get measure would force Reagan to policy and grappling with painful Many of those swing votes, who 1981-84, the new aid request 89 percent of what the president strike a deal with Congress. He said spending cuts mandated by the supported Reagan's request for would be the first open military as­wants without raising tues." that if the t2X revision bill became Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction S27 million in non-lethal sistance that the United States has 
Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., said the focus of such a bargain "it act. "humanitarian" aid to the rebels, provided the insurgents. 
Voyager 2 reports new Uranus find 
PASADENA, CAUF. -Voyager 2 has found 1 0 arc-shaped pieces of rings around Uranus in addition to the I 0 full rings encircling the planet, a scientist said yesterday as geologists studied the planet's cratered moons and their moun­tains, valleys and strange squarish features. 
"To date, we've got ap­proximately 10 ofthese arcs," based on only partial examination of in­formation collected by the space probe, said Jet Propulsion Laboratory scientist Arthur Lane. 
He said the arcs are about 30 to 36 miles long, all outside the nine rings discovered from Earth in I977 and a 1Oth ring whose discovery by Voyager was announced Saturday. 
Burton Edelson, associate ad­ministrator for space science for the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration, said earlier that Voyager "found evidence of 10 addi­tional rings . . . with indications of many more to come." 
But Lane said scientists don't yet know if the arcs extend around the planet as complete rings. 
The arcs were invisible to Voyager's television cameras, but were detected with a device called a photopolarimeter, a light-sensing device that measured changes in starlight when the rings and arcs were between the spacecraft and a distant star. The technique allows the detection offine, dark particles. 
Voyager, which also has dis­covered I0 moons in addition to the five major ones that were dis­covered from Earth, sped away from Uranus on yesterday at more than 33,000 mph and will be more than 2 million miles from the planet bv this 
morning. It approached within 
50,679 miles of the seventh planet 
Friday. 
Incoming pictures of Ariel, Oberon and Titania -three of Uranus' five largest moons -showed broad valleys, a mountain four miles high and numerous impact craters, some with dark material on their floors that geologists believe flowed from within the planet. 
Edelson said geologists will be busy for years analyzing the pictures of the moons, especially the amazingly detailed photos of the 300-mile-diameter Miranda. 
The moon has deep canyons; a gigantic, oval-shaped formation resembling a racetrack; an area that looks like it was swept by a broom; and a huge, highly unusual, square­cornered features that looked some­thing like a bird's-eye view ofa tilled farm field. 
HDW WDULD YDU LIKE 
SZD.DD? 
Design the IJest logo for theStudent Aetlvltles Board's new stores: 
~~ ...~~.._..~~~~~~~~~ ......_.~~ ....~~ ...~~~ 


Entries must be in ink on 8V2 x 11 paper. Submit them to the TicketS tub (basement of LaFortune) by February 7th. Include your name, address. and telephone number 

Smith 
continued from page 1 
tonio Texas. The last two and a 
halfyears she was the director of 
admissions. 
Working in admissions did not allow Smith to work as closely with students as she would have liked, she said. Admissions work is more of the business side of college administration, she said. 
Smith said she took the student activities director job so she could work closer with students. "I had been used to working with students in residence halls," she said. "You don't get to work as closely with them in admissions. I want to stay more in touch with students than admissions work allows." 
SEXUALITY: DON'T KEEP IT IN THE BAG 
KNOW TOUR BODY THE INSIDE STORY 
(Where things are, how things work) 
Wedunday, January 29 7:00p.m. Stapleton LollDie Dr. lllyu St.cter U.D. 
BODY MAINTENANCE FEMALE HYGIENE, GYNECOLOGICAL EIAM, BREAST SliLF EIAM 
Wedunday, Pebruary 5 7:00p.m. Stapleton Lounge Gloria ChelmlDlat 
Director of Health S."leH 
PROTECT YOURSELF AND OTHERS 
KNOW YOUR BODY'S WARNING SIGNS 
(Herpes, urinary tract tntections, etc ) 
Wednesday, Pebruary I2 7:00p.m. Stapleton LollDi• Dr. Mart Saudoet U.D. 
OPTIMISM­THE WORST CONTRACEPTIVE 
(What they are, how they work. What they look lllc.e) 
Wednesday, PebruarJ 19 7:00p.m. 
Stapleton LOUD£e breu Wlaus and IIlla Harmeyer Paeutty NurstDR Department 
r----------------~ 
The C>bserver Monday, January 27, 1986-page 5 

Libyans protest U.S. policies 
TRIPOLI, LIBYA -Ubyan politi­cal science students massed yester­day outside the Belgian Embassy, which represents U.S. interests in Ubya, and chanted "Down, down U.S.A.!" 
The hundreds ofstudents shouted themselves hoarse, calling on "the aggressor Reagan" to go home and yelling anti-American slogans. Their enthusiasm lessened when a light rain began to f.ill. 
The students were not violent and made no attempt to storm the Bel­gian Embassy, on the third floor of a crumbling apartment building near the harbor. Members of civilian "people's committees" wearing offi­cial armband~ kept order on the fringes of the crowd. 
A Belgian official said the students "have once again missed their real target. They don't seem to know that the embassy's American interests section still operates inside the old American Embassv." 
The old U.S. embassy, in Tripoli's Dahra Section, has been closed since 1981. It now flies the Belgian flag and few Ubyans seem to know that Belgian officials carry on American consular business there. 
Before their demonstration, the students met for two hours yester­day with Western reporters in a clas­sroom at Tripoli University and discussed what the students called "American imperialist threats" such as the current U.S. 6th Fleet naval and air exercises offof Ubya. 
Ubyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy has said Ubyan suicide squads would be let loose in U.S. cities if Reagan mounts a retaliatory attack. 
"The Libyan people are ready for death," student leader Ahmed el­Hadi, 22, told reporters yesterday. "We are prepared to fight back against American aggression even though we know America is a super­power. We are prepared to die for our cause." 
Nun claims police recruit children to picket Bishop Tutu's return 
JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA -An anti-apartheid black Roman Catholic nun says police tried to recruit young blacks to picket Bishop Desmond Tutu when he returns from a tour of the United States, it was reported yesterday. 
The Sunday Star of Johannesburg said Sister Bernard Ncube told of children from the black area near her home in Kagiso, west ofJohan­nesburg, complaining that police tried to enlist them to heckle the bis­hop when he returns home. 
Tutu, Anglican bishop of Johan­nesburg and winner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize, has been touring the United States, speaking out in Washington, New York and other cities in support of stronger U.S. sanctions against the white-led South African government. 
The nun, head ofthe mostly black Transvaal (Province) Federation of Women, said children told her police promised to drive them toJan Smuts Airport, 40 miles east, when were to be supplied with placards criticizing Tutu. Tutu is expected home soon, but it was not clear yes­terday exactly when he planned to arrive in Johannesburg. 
Tutu  arrives  home,  The  Star  
reported.  
The  paper said  the  youngsters  

Apolice spokesman denied the al­legation, saying, "The police just do not do those sort of things. It is not their job." 
Based on letters to the editors on newspapers, Tutu's criticism of South Africa appeared to have an­gered many. The Johannesburg Daily Star reported that many white callers in a telephone call-in poll believed Tutu "should be locked up or shot." But black callers said Tutu's positions accurately reflected black thinking. 
South Africa issued a stern war­ning over the weekend to Botswana, the last of South Africa's neighbors believed to be used as a staging base for violence by anti-apartheid guer­rillas. 
On Saturday night, after Lesotho evicted 60 supporters of the African National Congress guerrilla force, South Africa threatened to send troops into Botswana to chase the ANC from that usually placid South African neighbor. 
"That infiltration route (Botswana) will have to be closed, or the defense force will take ap­propriate action," said Foreign Mini­ster Roelof Botha. 
The reply from Gaborone, Bostwana's capital, was swift. The office of Botswanan President Quette Masire issued a statement saying: "we have always said that if anyone knows of any bases or in­filtration routes in Botswana, he is free to come and show them to us. Mr. Botha's threat to send the South 
African  Defense  Force  into  
Botswana  is  completely unwar­ 
ranted."  

The military seized power in landlocked Lesotho a week ago and promptly agreed to South African demands to expel the ANC. South Africa alleged the ANC used Lesotho as a springboard for sabotage inside this racially segregated, white­dominated country. 
Pope visits as 'pilgrim of peace' to unify Catholic Church in India 
NEW DELHI, INDIA -Pope John Paul II, making the first official papal trip next weekend to the Hindu homeland of Mahatma Gandhi, visits a nation divided by piety, poverty and bitter sectarian conflicts. 
Invited by the Indian govern­ment to tour this nation of750 mil­lion people, which approximates the size of the world's Catholic community, the pope said yester­day from the Vatican that he will visit as a "pilgrim ofpeace ... a pas­tor sent to confirm among brot­hers of the faith an ecclesiastical unity." 
Christianity, however, is regarded with suspicion in India as a colonialist ideology. Sometimes the Virgin Mary is depicted in a sari as Indian churches have attempted to shed the image of a foreign church and adopt Indian customs. 
Christian missionaries are criticized for converting un­touchable Hindus and im­poverished pagan tribals, for stirring the lower classes to demand their legal rights. The Vatican to many Hindus represents a foreign Catholic minority that makes up less than 2 percent ofthe population. 
Pope John Paul will travel through India for 10 days under tight security, including a bullet­proof limousine. His tour of 14 cities starts Saturday in New Delhi and includes stops in Calcutta, Madras, Goa and Bombay. 
Hindu zealots have declared the pope unwelcome and demanded he cease conversions. They have planned anti-Catholic demonstra­tions in New Delhi and Bombay, and two death threats against him have been reported. 
Militant slogans, spray-painted In Madras, say: "there's No Hope, Pope, Go Home" and "The Pope Is A CIA agent." 
In the Indian Catholic com­munity, there is dispute over "liberation theology" In a nation of overwhelming poverty, sickness, illiteracy, inequality and dis­crimination. "Untouchable" Chris­tians, like Hindu outcasts, have been protesting discrimination against them In Madras. 
Activist priests and nuns have been criticized and transferred by the church for demonstrating on behalf of poor fishermen In the state of Kerala, and for supporting landless untouchables oppressed by Hindu landlords and moneylenders in the state ofBihar. 
Let's Ialk Careers! 
First National Bank of Omaha is hosting a reception. 
Monday, January 27, 1986 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Morris Inn Alumni Room 
First National Bank of Omaha is an innovative, aggressive leader among fir}.ancial institutions in Nebraska. Established in 1863, today we offer a wider range of services to people and businesses across the country than any other financial institution in the area. 
We11 be on campus interviewing Tuesday, February 18, 1986, and we'd like to introduce ourselves before that date. Our representatives will be available Monday, January 27, 1986, to talk to you about First National Bank of Omaha and the opportunities available with a strong and growing regional banking power. We look forward to meeting you! 

first national t:xJnk 
ofomaha 
an equal opportunity employer 
----------~--l ~i~~~_<>__i_Il__t__________________Mo-nd-ay_,Ja-nu-~-2-7,_198-6--p-age-6 
Faith in Christ helped woman through 'Dark Ages' 
Fifty-one years ago, on the feas~ ofthe Epip­hany, a book called "The Mystical Body of Christ in the Modern World" was published in Ireland. The author, a distinguished theologian and philosopher, was Father Denis Fahey. The book received a Nihil Obstat -a declaration that the Church's magisterium found no error in the work -and there is a glowing forward written by the Most Reverend J. Kinane, bishop of Waterford and lismore. The book, which is on loan to me, is from the collection ofCatholic arcana belong­ing to an old friend in South Bend. 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
My friend, who is fast approaching 80, is connected to Notre Dame through her hus­band and sons, who are alumni. But her deepest connection is all her own. During what she calls the "Dark Ages of the Church," (by which she means the 1940s and 1950s,) she was active in the liturgical renewal move­ment spearheaded by Notre Dame's Father Michael Matthis. 

Through this participation she anticipated some of the reforms which would arrive on the universal Church scene after Vatican II. What has long fascinated me about this woman is that she is the product of the same epoch of the Church that produced both the author and the promoter of "The Mystical Body ofChrist in the Modern World." 
It is ages since I have read anything so dis­turbing; it is a horrible, wicked book and it demonstrates vividly how desperately the Church needed Vatican II. The author begins and ends by peddling every mendacity about Jews that he can lay his hands on. His evidence for Jewish machinations, "The Protocols of Zion," is that same spurious tract that Hitler was to use to justify his final solution. 
While Fahey hews to a traditional Catholic social justice line, which is to say he con­demns capitalism and communism, he traces both systems to a Jewish conspiracy. Jews, he opines, have turned money into a commodity and Jews plotted the Russian Revolution. Bet­ween them, these Jewish systems finally will enslave humanity, destroying God's plan for creation. 
Fahey's reading of God's plan represents an age-old temptation of Roman Catholicism, namely triumphalism, which holds the right order will prevail only when the hierarchical Church has imposed its control over the world, creating a global theocracy. The notion that the Church's role should be that ofsuffer­ing servant, learning from the world as it helps to transform it, is alien to this Thomist. After sifting through this book I wohdered, not for the first time, whether Thomism should be retired: the angelic doctor's metaphysics seem so open to abuse from people whose agenda is power. 
If rabid anti-Semitism is far and away the most vicious aspect of this book, (and con­sider how works of this sort would have fanned the flames, five years on, of the Nazi holocaust), a nasty secondary theme surfaces. Tilis time it is the demonic nature of the Protestant Reformation. 
There is no mention of the ecclesial abuses ofthe Catholic side, which were at the root of the Protestant revolt. Instead, Martin Luther, who is portrayed as Lucifer's point-man, is held entirely responsible for sundering Chris­tendom. 
After reading Fahey's book, chills ran down my spine when the newspapers reported that at the recent extraordinary Synod, held in Rome last November, Cardinal Ratzinger, a powerful German Thomist at the Curia, had been all set to demote the Ecumenical Office at the Vatican. It is worth keeping in mind that Ratzinger never has hidden his admiration for the pre-war Bavarian Church in which he grew up -that same Church which enjoyed cozy relations with the Nazi state. This is hardly the man to be making decisions in a sensitive area like ecumenical relations. 
"Plus ca change, plus ca meme chose." In his book "The American Pope: The Life and Times of Francis, Cardinal Spellman," John Cooney reports that Spellman said of John XXIII, "He's no pope; he should be selling bananas," adding, "No change will get past the Statue of Liberty." Spellman is gone, but his most recent successor in New York, John Car­dinal O'Connor, of Ferraro-bashing fame, is out of the same stable; I doubt if his theology differs one iota from Spellman's. 
The Holy Spirit must have worn herselfout trying to get a change of heart among top people in the Church -John XXIII was her last gasp in that direction. Maybe She now is trying to zap those ofus who are at the bottom ofthe ecclesial pyramid. Itwould be a sensible move on Her part because people who do not hold office; in the Church are much, much freer to critique the deformities of the institution. They are unlikely to be hauled in front of Roman Inquisitions to account for their views. 
Which brings me back to my octogenarian friend, the owner of the cursed book. She has lived through some of the worst times in the history of the modern Church, yet her fidelity to Christ had given her the independence to resist institutional insanity while remaining faithful to the Body of Christ. She never has made an idol of the Church and she is no Sun­day Catholic, either. 
On the contrary, she preaches the Gospel unsanctimoniously and unself-righteously every day ofher life. A third order Benedictine for many years, her simple, cultivated life leaves her wonderfully free to serve her neighbors and to bring Christ to her world. 
Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 
Network television bas little to offer viewers 
There are two varieties ofevery college stu­dent's Christmas experience: heavy food con­sumption and bad television. During this festive vacation, we have both the time and lack of energy to melt into the couch, drink a bottle of Coke (not diet), indulge in the chip and dip, and absorb oneself into the alluring world ofbad television. 
john C. Dettling 
outofline 
While once a "Brady Bunch" regular, I now have trouble stomaching most of what net­works offer. But it happens again, time after time, vacation after vaction. Weary of the barrage ofcable movies, intellectually drained from school and PBS, I am seduced by bad television. Simply, I indulge in prime-time net­work inanity. 
Most shows reek ofinanity. While there are few good ones, the list ofthe inane is endlessly awful. Reeking of bad taste, bad acting, bad writing and appalling distortions of reality, this entertainment cesspool magnetically lures more people into wasting their time since "Bad Film" with Ronald Reagan. 
From the allure of "Dynasty" (where the rich are miserable and the poor have been ex­pelled from Denver) and ridiculous sitcoms, we learn about ourselves and our society. But I am convinced that the TV commercial can tell us much more about the politics and predilections of our society. 
Once, after hearing a lecture on the ex­ploitation of women in advertising, I became acutely aware of the actual severity of this problem, the ignoble instincts that many ad­vertisers cater to, and the grand seduction that transpires every time the tube sucks us into its world. Who's really in control when images flutter across the screen? 
Is it the materialistic values that commer­cials flaunt so powerfully that they are in­tegrated into our psyche? How vulnerable are children to the distortions and inanity that television in general portrays? How has TV weakened our attention spans and engen­dered irrevocable damage to the written word? Are we, as Dick Postman conjectures, "amusing ourselves to death?" 
We see beer commercials following anti­drunk driving ads. And on the somewhat lighter but inane side, we learn, to our utter amazement, that people of all ages clap their hands in a mad frenzy when they order at McDonalds. (I contracted food poisoning the last time I ate there. What should I do next time I order?) And ofcourse, we've been sub­jected to so much sexual imagery that many of us probably have become numb to its stagger­ing prevalence in TV advertising. 
At a close glance, we might learn two relatively new trends from TV advertising. First, fragmentation has become the rule in commercials. In fact, even programs have sue­cumbed to this tendency. Measure how long one angle shot is maintained. Probably not more than a few seconds. In commercials, we frequently are bombarded with as many images as the time spot can hold. Beer and automobile commercials try to compress a rapid plethora of appealing images, most ir­relevant to the product. 
The flashing of suggestive images isn't as disconcerting as the actual manner in which they are presented. If this trend continues ( MTV is the greatest program offender), how much will the attention span of the next generation be debilitated? People are watch­ing TV much more than ever. Are we becom­ing conditioned to constantly expect another image rather than reflect on one or a few images? The chronic TV watcher will expect life to move in the same pattern as the images presented to him: fastpaced, little attention to detail, and fragmentary. 
Patriotic imagery saturates TV commer­cials. The pride is back. In what? Most ads are catering to a nationalistic fervor latent in all us, a nebulous, superficial pride that glosses over the substantial and profound under­standing of our way of life that we should possess. Much of it is hot air. Again, there are preposterous associations: Has your town been annihilated by a tornado? No problem. Just get your Miller beer and build the thing together again. 
Ifa war is in the waiting, we're certainly get­ting mentally prepared. War is selling a lot of nice things. Hilton uses jet fighters to convey its message. One firm shows a tank and a cal­vary about to engage in battle. More impor­tantly, the use of sheer power is a prevalent theme that merely reflects a society enamoured with power, force and war. 

And then there's the Wendy's ad. Yes, the Russian fashion show. It portrays Russians as fat monotonous automatons. Critics believe that it hinders Americans from empathizing with the millions of Russians condemmed to live under its government, that it gives us another reason to hate them, and that it bloats our nationalism. 
A closer look reveals that it is mocking the Soviet system. Of course, Russian women want a choice -if they had one. The ad is damaging because many will disdainfully mock the Russian characters while few will reflect on the Soviet system. 
The Politburo isn't too happy with our general portrayal of Russians in our entertain­ment genres. These are the same people who say the Boy Scouts are card-carrying capitalists who are taught the finer points of free-market theory and military machinations. 
While watching bad television one night with my little brother, he told me about a visit to his school by a Boy Scout leader. "The leader said that we'd learn how to fire a rifle, an automatic, and other army stuff," the sixth­grader gleefully recounted. 
Alot has changed since "The Brady Bunch." 
Quote of the day 
':Just what you want to be, you'll be in the end." 
The Moody Blues 'Wights in White Satin" 1967 
VieWP.Oint Monday, January 27, 1986-page 7 
The legacy of Dooley is remembered by few today 
This week macks the 25th anniversary of the death of Dr. Thomas Dooley. Dooley was known throughout the wocld and especially in the jungles ofSoutheast Asia in the 1950s as one who treated those preventable diseases that otherwise meant death to the rural population living fn the area. He was an out· spoken man, impatient with those who did not understand his call to help thelc brothers "halfway around the wocld." 
Larry Skendzel guest column 
Many found his manner egotistical and his anti-Communist rhetoric distasteful. Dooley did capture the imagination of the American ' people in his call for aid to those who "ain't got it so good." He helped raise millions of dollars for medicine and personnel toward his cause. 
Yet the legacy Dooley left the wocld often ha..ti been forgotten since his death at age 34 of cancer. His letter to Father Hesburgh is posted at the Grotto, but few Notre Dame students know of Dooley's life. In an effort to reverse this trend, the University has erected a bronze statue next to the Grotto to commemorate the life of one of Notre Dame's finest in­dividuals. 
The Tom Dooley story began in St. Louis, Missouri, on Jan. 17, 1927, with his birth. He quickly grew into a handsome young man, popular with the gicls and endowed with an energetic personality. He chose to attend Notre Dame and began his pre-medical train· ing there in 194 3. With the outbreak ofWocld War II, Dooley enlisted as a corpsman in­volved as a medical aide. 
In 1946 he returned to Notre Dame, where he continued to impress people with his ener· getic personality. He rode horses well, played the piano expertly and jitterbugged like a professional. He bragged about becoming a "society doctor" back in St. Louis. Dooley finished his pre-medical course of study as a junior and was accepted into the St. Louis·Uni­versity School of Medicine. Dooley was known for his nonconformity to schedules in medical school and often skipped class if a more pressing matter came up at the hospital. Ue wa.~ reprimanded often for this, but managed to graduate in 1953. 
Dooley joined the Navy and spent several months on the West Coast for his internship before being sent aboard the U.S.S. Montague stationed in Japan. In May 1954, there began for young Dooley an experience which was to change the whole course of his life. The Mon­tague was one offour ships assigned to help in "Passage to Freedom," an evacuation of those who wished to flee Communist-held North Vietnam after the French Indo-China War. Dooley was in charge of processing the refugees before they were evacuated, to prevent epidemics and the infestation of the ships used for transport. 
More than 600,000 refugees were processed and cared for. Dooley came to wit· ness firsthand the degree of preventable disease festering in this undernourished, suf­fering society. He rose to the challenge. As a result of his extraordinary effort in this opera­tion, he was awarded the Legion of Merit, be· coming the youngest officer in the history of the U.S. Medical Corps to receive it. 
Dooley left Southeast Asia to return to the United States, convinced ofthe need for aid to this segment of humanity. In 1956 he became a civilian and wrote a book, "Deliver Us From Evil," describing his experiences with those suffering not only from deplorable physical conditions, but also from the yoke of Com­munism. With the proceeds from the book, plus generous help from pharmaceutical com· panics, he returned to Southeast Asia with a 
small staff and obtained permission from the 
Laotian government to establish a small 
village hospital. It was located at Nam Tha, five 
miles from the border of Communist-held 
China. 
At Nam Tha, Dooley ministered to the needs of the people in an educational as well as medical capacity. He set up the hospital only on the condition that it be taken over by a Laotian staff in the future. Dooley was con­vinced that the negative propaganda used by the Communists about Americans was best fought by example. 
He lived with the people, knew their lan­guage and participated in their community, in hope that this exhibition of caring would become a symbol ofAmerica and its commit· ment to freedom and world peace. In late 195 7, Dooley turned the hospital over to the Laos government and returned to the United States. 
Dooley's second best seller, "The Edge of Tomorrow" was published in May 1958. Proceeds from this and a lecture tour helped finance his plans for an overseas operation called MEDICO, committed to aid of under· developed areas. He returned to Laos to es­tablish another hospital in the remote village of Muong Sing. By the end of 1960, MEDICO had 1 7 projects in operation in 12 countries. MEDICO established such projects only at the invitation of the host government. 
In August 1959, Dooley learned he had a highly malignant cancer (melanoma) and flew to New York to undergo surgery. The opera­tion was filmed by CBS for a three-hour documentary narrated by Howard K. Smith on current techniques for the treatment of can­cer. After a few weeks of rest, Dooley started on a nation-wide lecture tour which raised nearly a million dollars for MEDICO. 
People marvelled at his energetic plea that each American could make a difference in the life of some stranger, but still a brother, in Asia. He then returned to his Muong Sing hospital and began working at his usual pace, which often kept him going 20 hours a day. 
In early 1960, Dooley's thicd book, "The 
Night They Burned the Mountain," was 
published. It told of his fight with cancer and 
the constant threat of Communist invasion 
that hung over the region. Despite personal 
danger, Dooley refused to evacuate the area 
insisting, "I am a doctor, that is the root ofme. 
Everything else is second to that." 
He received many tributes for his inspira­tional work. One came from President Dwight Eisenhower when both received honorary degrees from Notre Dame on June 5, 1960. Departing from his prepared text as com­mencement speaker, the President said, "There are few, if any, men who have equalled Dr. Dooley's exhibition of courage, self· sacrifices, faith in his God and his readiness to serve his fellow man." 
Others continued to criticize Dooley's work. Many questioned his medical tech· niques and others complained ofhis rudeness. Volunteers often felt the brunt of his Irish temper if things were not done his way. He readily admitted to being somewhat of a tyrant at the hospital. Others disliked his con­stant use ofthe mass media to obtain contribu­tions. 
Dooley insisted that this was not self-aggrandizement. "If you are going to be a humanitarian today, you've got to run it like a business offail as a service. You've got to have press relations, television, and radio." Many remember him best for his witty remarks on "The Tonight Show" or on Arthur Godfrey's program. 
As 1960 progressed, Dooley began to feel increasing pain in his lower abdominal region. He continued to work his usual schedule, but on Nov. 30 entered a Hong Kong hospital suf· feeing from "extreme fatigue and exhaustion." He left the hospital in a few days wearing a 
brace to support his back and attempted to 
resume his work. 
The pain, however, became progressively worse, and he finally gave in to the persuasion ofassociates and journeyed back to New York for a new examination. He arrived on Dec. 27, 1960, and entered Memorial Hospital, where he spent his last days attempting to organize his foundation MEDICO to survive after his death. 
On his bicthday, Cardinal Spellman adminis· tered the last rites and one day later, on Jan. 18, 1961, Dooley died quietly. The world mourned its loss. Congress approved the Presidential Award which was given pos· thumously, and the king ofLaos presented the Order of a Million Elephants and White Parasol, his nation's highest honor, to Dooley's mother at the funecal. 
In the New York Times, Norman Cousins wrote, "On a non-medical basis, Dooley had the book thrown at him becauSe of his per­sonal manner. They said he was a little too flamboyant and was not above self­advertising. What is Important about Tom Dooley is that he tried to meet the highest need ofhis age, which is for a sense ofconnec· tion between man and man. Even if Dooley's mission in Asia was a total failure, which it was not, he would have valid claim to greatness because he rescued thousands from cynicism. He could have been the world's most temper· mental man and this would not have detracted by the thinnest sliver from the magnificence ofhis ideas and his work." 
Dooley doled out his life for humanity · to men and women with whom he had no direct relationship · but he fought for them just the same. Many found things to criticize. So be lt. There Is also much to praise... and that Is why we at Notre Dame come together this week, to remember this man and his life. 
We should not judge on unfounded hearsay 
Recently, I was jolted from what I call an intellectual or "all-too-knowing" pedestal. After participating in an Urban Plunge this past break, I have found many beliefs I had held as basically unshakeable now are stand­ing on very shaky ground. 
Carol Brown 
in these times 
I always had held a very conservative view concerning American poverty · a view based on heresay, the news, my environment, school · in other words, a view based on not· bing but indirect sources. Prior to the Plunge, I never had had any real contact with poverty. Consequently, now, after the Plunge, and after experiencing this problem in a more real and direct way, I find myself re-evaluating many of my beliefs. More importantly, I am re­examining these issues from a more educated and enlightened perspective; a perspective which rests on some real experience, not merely my own intellectual speculations. 
Here is the point. Having been knocked-off ofmy "all-too-knowing" pedestal, I have come to understand the great injustice we do In for· ming our opinions from unsubstantiated su· perficialities and what often amounts to heresay. 
The key is direct experience with a situa­tion and a sincere attempt at understanding before we form any judgments. 
This idea is not only relevant when talking of major life issues, but also in the judgments we make in our daily experience. We can all think of first impressions that went wrong, that interview when we totally froze-up and lost all human speaking capabilities, that first date with that god-like life form when we regressed into being social dwebulites for the night ... and the list goes on. It is pretty ob­vious that none of us would like opinions formed of us based on these awkward situa­tions; situations which are totally (or at least hopefully) off-base with the great people we really are. 
Unfortunately, because ofhuman nature we all probably have been misjudged in some way or another based on nothing more than superficial misunderstandings. And it is falc to say we have all at some time mistakenly made rash judgments based on the same type of nonsense. 
The cost of such quick, narrow-minded judgments often is much higher than we 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 11 the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of 81ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos· s1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­ranes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all member's of the community and the lree expression ol varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mtuy's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
would like to think. It could cost the loss of a 
job, entrance Into a university, or even a 
friendship. As an example, I clearly remember 
a time at the onset of my freshmen year · a 
prime time for first impressions · when be· 
cause of my possibly overly-gregarious and 
outgoing disposition I was written off by 
someone, who Is now a great friend, as a boy­
crazy socialite. In reality, I was just a scared 
little freshman looking for friends like 
everyone else. Case In point. 
In my honest intention of meeting people 
and making friends, I was mistakenly judged 
to be someone all too unlike myself. In the 
same way, because of my friend's reaction to 
me I, in turn, judged her as being cold and 
unfriendly. Needless to say, within a couple of 
weeks as we got to know each other better, 
our first bad impressions dissolved and we 
became the friends we are today. 
Certainly, this is a very common and not too 
significant son ofsituation, but hopefully it iJ. 
lustrates a point of how we can easily fall Into 
this rash, unjustified sort of judgment. If we 
recognize this, perhaps we will become more 
aware of how we relate to others, and we will 
attempt understanding before judgment. 
We must be particularly careful in forming 
judgments about those who have made 
mistakes. We all share at least one thing in 
common, our humanness. And an innate and 
unavoidable quality ofour humanity is our fal· 
libility. We have all made mistakes. We all 
have regrets about things we wish we had not 
done · things which are out of sync with our 
character. These are things on which we 
would not like to be judged. 
So before judging others from our self· righteous thrones we must first humble our­selves to remember our own weaknesses. We must ask ourselves: Do we wish to be judged in the same way we judge others? Do we offer others Christian understanding and accep­tance or rather cold stares and petty gossip? 
Think about it. 
We must give people a chance. We must grant others the benefit ofthe doubt and make a sincere effort to search out all that is good in them, rather than base their worth on petty faults. If we do this we will experience the genuine goodness of people. If not, we arc no better off than the old biddy school teacher (oops · I really shouldn't judge) who told our parents that we were "unruly and disruptive" when all we really wanted was some atten· tion. 
Carol Brown Is a sophomore In the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and a regular VIewpoint columnist. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. WiNiam J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~----~---------~--------~---------------~-------------. 
Accent 
The Snite Museum -5 years of culture at ND 

features writer 
S 
o you think the pinnacle ofart on 
the Notre Dame campus is the 
renovation ofLafortune Student 
Center or your own "special" 
sculpture consisting ofseveral 
dozen beer cans and some Silly 
Putty? Well, those things just may 
hold some importance tbr selected 
Domers, but when it comes to true 
art, the Snite Museum ofArt can't 
be beaten. 
One ofthe top college museums 
in existence, the Snite is celebrating 
its fifth anniversary under the dis­
criminating eyes ofMuseum Direc­
tor Dean A. Porter. Over the years, 
Porter and his staffof 12 full-time 
employees have operated the 
museum to pedorm two functions ­as a museum for the student body and for the local community. 
As a museum for the student body, the Snite offers curriculum­structured tours and flexible visit­ing hours. The sophomore core courses are all being introduced to the museum through structured tours, and any tour can be arranged to fit an instructor's specific needs. For the Michiana community, the Snite presents a cultural escape by offering concerts, films, and lectures, all ofwhich also are available to students at reduced rates or for free. 
The Snite's briefhistory began with the ground-breaking ceremony on Dec. 3, 1976 and the official opening on Nov. 7, 1980. As for its background, the museum's namesake is Frederick B. Snite, a successful entrepreneur and Notre Dame supporter. Nicknamed "the Colonel;" Snite donated J2 million and 41 Old Master paintings to the art gallery. 
Although "the Colonel" never saw the completion ofthe museum, the Snite family association con­tinues in two ways. His sister, Mary Loretto Dillon, is a member of the advisory council tbr the museum, and the beautiful "Madonna and Child," on display in the atrium, is dedicated to Snite's son, who lived in an iron lung for 18 years ofhis life. In a sense, the Snite Museum is a memorial commemorating the generosity ofthe Snite family. 
There are 15 galleries in the Snite, each one offering a different type ofart. The main specialties of the museum include nineteenth century and ethnographic art, the concentrations ofcurators Stephen Spiro and Douglas Bradley, respectively. Famous works in the museum include etchings by Rembrandt, Picasso, Remington and 
C.M. Russell. 
Because the acquisition fund for the museum is very small, most of the artwork in the Snite has been acquired through donations from philanthropic collectors. Artists-in­residence at the University have also made generous contributions to the gallery holdings. For ex­ample, Ivan Mestrovic resided at Notre Dame from 1955-62, and his works are on display in the gallery bearing his name. One of Mestrovic's religious works, "Christ and the Samaritan Woman," was cast in bronze and displayed at the Vatican Pavilion exhibit at the World's Fair in New Orleans. The original piece is on display outside O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The success ofa museum sometimes can be measured in terms ofits attendance. In this respect, the Snite has consistently finished with high marks. Recently, overall attendance at the museum ranked sixth out ofall reporting college museums in the nation. The Snite fell short of the Harvard and Yale museums, thought by some to be the best college galleries in the country, but the attendance figures look promising, considering the relative youth of the Snite. 
To celebrate its fifth anniversary, the Snite is displaying a recent donation of70 Rembrandt etchings, 
Valentine cards take n·ew look at romance 
K 
toward love," he explained. "Some All heads turn as a knight arrives on Acard replete with cupids, an increasing year-round interest in ofthese are people waiting longer a white horse. "I've been waiting for hearts, flowers and lace talks of communicating about love,·· he said. ANSAS CITY, Mo. ·Love is to marry, singles created through someone like you," the woman says. " ... happiness today and tomorrow definitely not blind in the cur­divorce and an increase in first and and always ... ," and one that opens So, newer cards designed to be rent crop oflove cards and subsequent marriages." Acard that has no written into myriad ofroses, lovebirds and used any time ofthe year include valentines, which take a clear-eyed message shows a middle-aged man hearts carries the ever-popular one that features the message,
Many of the 830 million
and sometimes humorous look at and a middle-aged woman on simple message: "I love you." "Love means coming home to the
valentines expected to be given this 
romance, reports a greeting card separate paths in the park. Cupid someone who's been in your heart
year will reflect the singles scene, 
company official here. has just shotan arrow at the man, Other cards are more sultry. One all day." Others suggest talking-or
he said. One card, for example, 
"You can almost read society's who sees neither the arrow nor the shows a couple in a hot tub. A listening -after a quarrel. And some
features "personals" newspaper ads.
mind by browsing through a card woman whose path he is about to transparent plastic post card broach the topic ofhurt when love
Circled in red is an ad seeking a 
shop," said Wayne Miller, a product cross. presents its message via pink lip doesn't last.
valentine who is adoring, vibrant, 
manager at Hallmark. "And today's prints, and another shows a heart
shy, intelligent and lots offun.
cards say that people are very much "But that's oniy one side ofthe With three little words: "The biggest change in love cards
Inside, the card says, "Good luck,
interested in love -though not love story," Miller pointed out. "throb ... throb ... throb." is that they are more direct," Miller 
Kid. so am I!"
always in the traditional way. "Many cards are totally traditional Miller said the variety in said. "We have found that people "Several recent demographic Another shows a woman in a and vow unending love. Some even v~entine messages should not be want cards that say exactly what changes have affected our attitude~ singles bar being leered at by men. have a Victorian look." surprising. "Our research indicates they feel at a particular time." 
• 
Monday, January 27, 1986-page 8-9 
including some of his most famous ami rarest prints. Richard Stevens, a member of Notre Dame's depart­ment of art, art history, and design, will present an exhibit of rednc­tlonlst stllllifes. The department of communication and theatre is presenting films by such critically acclaimed directors as Fellin!, Hitchcock, DeMille and many ot­hers In the Annenberg Auditorium. Ticket prices are reduced for stu­dents. Call239-7167 for Informa­tion about films or schedule updates. 
Students wishing to participate on a more In-depth level at the museum are Invited to join the Student Uaison Committee. This club is composed ofstudents in­terested in learning about the behind-the-scenes activities ofa museum. The committee en­courages students to become mem­bers because: "a lot ofstudents don't realize: what the Suite is all about," according to club president Mary Connolly. The committee coor­dinates trips, along with Assistant Museum Director Teri Larkin, and is planning a spring art fair in April to 
l (' ~ ~ 
~ •. ' f ' -~ ~·; U J 
; r.1' 
.: <. 
. . · · . , 
, . .' .Jf.tf,· 

At top, a plaque commemorates the official dedication ofthe Snite Museum ofArt on Nov. 7, 1980. The Museum, which was dedicated to Frederick B. Snite, is celebrating its fifth anniversary at Notre Dame. Above, one ofthe many historical artifacts on display at the Snite Museum. 
'Mass Appeal' entertains as well as fights famine 
run concurrently with the: Col­legiateJazz Festival. Contact Mary Connolly at 283-4418 for informa­tion. 
The: Snitc: Museum Is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday (until 8 p.m. on Thursday), 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday, and is closed on Mondays. 
'I' 
' ·I• 
., 
' ' ~:.. .; ~;. -. , ~z i , 
• 
I!J;,. 
c: .t:,,. ',.;, .. ,:~; .. ; i. ' ~ •• . ":· •iT[•,;, PI~ J ···:·t..l.rftt"­
•·. ((. ' .• l!;f,_. ' ,; I'' ·" .~, t·.-•t' =·r ··t·•--~_,, -~ ;j ,; .,-··:,1 ·1· '_ ~-[ t; Hr.:< 1 
.'.'::,~::.-:r,.: ;.: -'~~rr-·. ··' ~~: ~n~~ · .. ;...,. t· ~-~-lfih" r ,r< -tu,~ ••. ~~t~';trrr.:-~ l-·u: :' 
The Oblerver/Hannes Hocker 
So when you get bored ofyour beer can sculpture or looking at LaFortune's ugly skeleton, take a walk over to the Snite and take in some truly fine culture. In the words of Porter, "Just as every great city needs a museum, a great uni­versity also needs a museum." The Suite Museum of Art is Notre Dame's great museum. 
The Observer/Hanna Hocker 
FRAN NORTON 
features writer 
I 
t's not often that one can go see a 
play and, at the same time:, donate 
money to help African famine relief, 
but In this age of Uve Aid and "We 
Are the World," anything is pos­
sible. 
Onstage==!tJ 
Mass Appeal_;.--~ 
"Mass Appeal," which played Friday and Saturday nights in Was­hington Hall, was produced by Actors for Africa, Inc., a non-profit group which Is raising funds to feed the hungry In Africa. All proceeds from the: play go to the Benedictine Missions in Africa. Costumes, microphones and other necessities were: donated by Indiana businesses. Through special ar­rangement with the: publisher and Bill C. Davis, the playwright, Actors for Africa, Inc., Is able to produce the: play free ofcharge. 
The play deals with the relation­ship between Mark Dolson, a young, idealistic seminarian, and his advisor, Father Tim Farley, an aging parish priest who appears com­fortable In the subservient role he ha!j fashioned for himself within his afDuent parish. Naturally, the two clash right from their first encounter. 
Farley defends the way he caters to his pompous parishoners, saying, "Well, I like being liked. It gives me a warm feeling inside. You know, that and wine are the only warm feelings I get. And I'm not about to give up either." Farley also dislikes Dolson's "kick-ass" sermons, but the brash Dolson counters, "Better that than to kiss it." The two seem headed for collision, but the unjust decrees of a mutual opponent, Monsignor Burke, unite: them. 
A two-man show can have problems maintaining interest, but this production manages to pull it off. The play opens with Farley, played by Jim Shildmyer, giving a dialogue sermon to the audience, which serves as his congregation. Dolson, played by Harvey Fries, enters from the rear ofthe theatre, answering Farley's call for ideas. The audience becomes part of the production, not merely silent ob­servers. Telephone conversations also increase: the number ofcharac­ters in the play, and keep the audience's interest high. 
· The play was directed by Mike Shildmyer, who also counts "The Front Page" and "Deathtrap" among his directing credits. Performing the play for charity was his brainchild. He was responsible for casting his father, who has had leading roles in Marion Civic Theatre productions, as Farley. Fries just happened to be in town at the time, visiting from New York, where he did "performance art" in various East Village nightclubs. 
The group has also performed at Ball State: University, Indiana Uni­versity and in some church base­ments. As for the group's aspirations, it simply hopes that live theater can do its part to assist famine relief efforts, as the music industry has done. That kind of attitude is worthy of"mass" atten­tion. 
Childhood friendship ends with a simple diamond ring 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunchbox­
W 
hile I was home for Christmas break, I ran into my old childhood friend, Pete. Pete and I were the best ofbuddlc:s In high school. We played running bases, traded base:ball cards, threw snowballs at cars, climbed trees, and lit firecrackers together. 
But our futures took us down different paths. We attended different high schools and saw each other only occasionally during those: four years. 
Then Pete went away to Illinois State University; I came to Notre Dame. Now that we're both college seniors, it's pretty clear that we've drifted apart. 
In fact, when I ran into Pete outside my house over break, it was the first time we had seen each other in more than a year. It was good to see him. We were able to catch up on lots of news about college and old friends. 
We just stood there in the snow, talking, laughing, reminiscing. 
In a weird way, it was as if nothing had ever changed. Then a terrific idea entered my head. "Hey Pete," I said. "Remember, when we were kids, how we 
used to go tobogganing at Beamis Woods?" "Yeah, sure," he said. "Those: were some great times. Why do you ask?" "Well, I was thinking. Why don't I pull the old toboggan out of the garage and we'll hit Beamis Woods? Sort oflike old times!" "I'd love to," Pete replied, "but I've already got plans to see Debbie. You remember her, don't you?" "Yeah, sure, I remember Debbie," I said. "You two are still seeing each other?" "You might say that," Pete said. "As a matter offact, we're engaged." 
"Well, tell her you have to go tobogganing and that ... "I stopped, stunned, as if somebody had just clubbed me over the head. "You're what?" 
"That's right," Pete said. "We'll be getting married in july. In the meantime, though, I've got a thousand things to do-wedding invitations, the marriage license:, tuxedo fittings ...." 
I couldn't believe what I was hearing. This is the guy I used to race Hot Wheels and watch "Spiderman" with. In those: days, words like "wedding" and "marriage license:" were never even part ofour working vocabularies. The only tuxedo we knew ofwas worn in a cartoon by a penguin nanttd Tennessee. 

Pete noticed that I was shocked, pale, paralyzed. "Hey, you're looking at me like I've: got leprosy or something," he said. "What's the problem?" "Oh ... nothing," I said. "It's just that ... I never pictured you getting married ... so soon." 
"Look, I'm 21. My parents were married and had two kids by this age. Besides, Debbie and I have been going out for four years now. We're sure this is what we want." 
"Well, congratulations," I said as I shook Pete's hand, though I'm not sure I really meant it. I felt more like consoling him. 
"You're still looking at me funny," Pete said. "What's the matter? Doesn't anybody get engaged back at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? I can't believe the social life is that bad." "Well, sure, people are always getting engaged at school," I said. "I know ofquite a few couples who have cuddled their way through the last few years of college and who are now getting a piece of the: rock." 
"See what I mean?" Pete said. "It's not so unusual. And I bet there'll be plenty more engagements there before the year is up." 
"Yeah, I'd imagine so," I said. "I've heard that during Senior Formal weekend in April, diamond rings fly through the air like Frisbees." 
"Isn't it kind of exciting?" Pete asked. 
"I don't know," I said. "I guess it's pretty neat when you walk into English class one day and a bunch ofgirls are crowded around their newly engaged friend, oohing and ahhing at the stone on her finger .... 
"But then I get depressed when I think about the poor guy who's probably abstaining from Domino's pizzas and who didn't get basketball tickets this year so he could afford the thing." 
"I think you're missing the whole point," Pete sighed. "A diamond ring is a beautiful and meaningful symbol ofa man's love for a woman." 
"It's also the smallest handcuff In the: world," I reminded him. Pete sighed again. I think he was beginning to get annoyed. 
"Hey listen," he said at last, "I've gotta run; Debbie and I are looking at apartments this afternoon. Thanks for the tobogganing offer. Maybe some other time." 
As I stood there in the snow and watched Pete walk away, I knew there would be no "other time." I realized that our childhood days were officially a thing of the past. Now there would be only memories. 
I guess I'm happy for Pete, as long as he's happy. I realize that engagements and marriages are special events that come to different people at different times. 
But does anybody out there still want to go tobogganing? 
• The Observer Monday, January 27, 1986 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The NDwrestlingteamwon the National Catholic Tournament over the weekend. The Irish had a winning total of 118­1/4 points, followed by John Carroll with 83 points. Seton Hall placed third with 61 points, followed by Dayton (34-l/2 points), and Marquette (26 points). Notre Dame'sJerry Durso was selected Outstanding Wrestler of the Tournament, and Irish coach Fran McCann was named the National Catholic Coach of the Year. · Tbe Observer 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz will be the 
guest speaker at a meeting for all freshmen interested in becoming members ofthe Student Managers Organization. The meetingwill be at the ACC football auditorium (enter Gate 2) at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. 30. All those·interested but not able to attend should call the manager's office at 239-6482 before Thursday.· Tbe Observer 
The ND water polo team will practice Wednes­day, Jan. 29 And every Wednesday from 9-10:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions call Tom O'Reilly at 3588. · Tbe Ob­server 

The ND Tae Kwan Do Club will be accepting new members until Thursday, Jan. 30. Classes will meet regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. Bring workout clothes for practice. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Squash Club will be practicing this semester at the ACC courts every Monday from 7·9 p.m., Thursday from 4-6:30 p.m. and Saturday from 3·5 p.m. All members are en­couraged to attend each practice. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451.-Tbe Observer 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, lilculty or stall members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.· Tbe Ob­server 
lnterhall hockey teams may now register to practice on the ACC ice rink. A limit ofone hour per week per team will be imposed and the fee will be SSO per hour. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll at 239·5247. •Tbe Observer 
A Schick SMC basketball tourney, for three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. 5. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and mU:St be returned byJan. 
29. No present or former varsity basketball players may participate. The winning team will go to regional play with the championship game being held in an NBA arena. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility.· Tbe Observer 
A SMC doubles racquetball tournament will begin Feb. 3. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned by Jan. 29. For more information call the An· gela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
A SMC co-ed volleyball tourney will begin 
Feb. 3. Teams must consist of 3 men and 3 women. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned with a no entry fee by Jan. 29. For more information call the Angela Ath· letic Facility. · The Observer 
Aerobics will be offered in Angela Athletic Facility, Mondays and Wednesdays from 10-ll p.m., Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5-6 p.m., and Fridays from 5-6 p.m. A 55 fee per semester, payable on the first day of attendance, entitles you to at­tend all sessions. · The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. · Tbe Observer 
Gophers b-ball fate still unclear 
MINNEAPOUS · The fate of the 
University of Minnesota basketball 
program remained uncertain yester­
day as the Gophers forfeited their 
scheduled Big Ten game with 
Northwestern in the wake of the ar· 
rests of three players on allegations 
ofsexual assault and the resignation 
ofCoachJim Dutcher. 
Dutcher resigned Saturday, the day after Minnesota forwards Mitchell Lee, Kevin Andre Smith and George Williams were arrested in Madison, Wis., following an alleged sexual assault on a woman at a motel where the team was staying. 
"I think the program needs new direction," Dutcher, 52, the Gop­hers' head coach since 1975, told a news conference. 
"You can always look at where you are and where you want to be, and where you're heading and I'm not pleased with the direction we're heading," said Dutcher, who guided the Gophers to the Big Ten cham­pionship in 1982. 
"I was convinced for my own mental health at this point, this was the thing that had to be done," said Dutcher, who will be retained in another capacity in the university athletic department at least until the end ofthe school year. 
However, Dutcher told the St. Paul Pioneer Press and Dispatch that he will not abandon the three players who are to be arraigned Monday in Dane County Circuit Court in Madison. 
"Those are my players, men I brought to Minnesota from hundreds of miles away. They are away from their lilmilies. Maybe I can't monitor their every move but I can still be there when they need me," Dutcher said. 
He said he planned to be in Madison for the arraignment and will stay as long as he is needed. 
Tht• Oh.<err·er :\otrt· llamt· otfitt'. lot atnl on tht· th~rd tloor of l.ah•rtun<· ~tudt•nt <.t·ntt-r. Jl'l't'PI' l'ia"tfit-d adn·rt"tnl( from 9 am until~ p m. \lunda\ throul(h httla\ 7bt• I Jhs.•tTI'r ~dtnt \ldn 'oftkt· lotatt·d on tht· thtrd tloor ot IIJI(I(Jr <oilt'l(l' <t·ntt'f. dl tt·pt' tla"tfinl' from I 2 \0 p m unttl \ p m \ton tla\ thoul(h Fntla\ llt·ddltnt· for ncxt tla\ tla"tfkJ, '' \ p m .\II l'ia"tfil'tl' mu\1 ht· prc:patd.t·tthn tn pt·r,on or h\ mdtl <.harl(l'" I lln·nt' pt·r fine t·harat
Classifieds 
tt·r, n tla\'. 
NOTICES 
Typing Avalleble 287-4082 
$10.$360 Weekly/Up MMing Cirru~Mal 
No qualM! 
Sincerely int«•ted ruah Mil~ 
envelope: Sua:eae, POBox 470COD, 
Woodltock, IL 60086. 
TYPING 
CAU.CHRII 
~. 
An.ntlon: ltuclenta · Dalorw FIWICia Typl"'...,lce
._.ph-ch8nge 
277..111 
TYPING IY IAU.Y 272·7173. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: SALES. CHAU.ENGING a GOOD TRAINING. CALL 3318 STEVE. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Notre Dame Boxing -18hirt left In ~aJdtorlum aher Tuead8y f11W!t ftrwl. H you picked It up, piMM call me 81 272-4287 8lld 1M me know. lt'a not !Tine eo I really need it b8ckl R....,d offered. 
LOST: Gold herringbone bracelet with tri color gold "*' .nached. REWAROIIIII call Jllckle at 2286. 
La.'~' : THE MAllE OF THE P8IION WHO HIT IIY CAll ON TAYLOR S1'MET ON THE NIGHT IEFOM CHIIIITIIAIIIRUK. IT WAI A DNIK &UI DATIUN AND DION'T THINK IT WAI MD AT THI n111, IIUT IT NUDa IOIIe I'IEPAifl. CALL IR:E AT 
27MIOI. 
DO YOU EAT LUNCH IN THE NORTH DINING HAU.? DID YOU TAKE MY BlUE NOTRE DAME BINDER BY MISTAKE? IT HAS MY CLASS ADD SUP IN IT. AND WHATEVER ELSE. PLEASE CALL MAn PATNCC*tl AT 232-6687 OR BRING IT TO THE LOST&FOUNO IN THE ADMIN BUILDING THANX 
WOMEN$ SWATCH WATCH FOUND IN 
FRONT OF O'SHAG. CALL 1654 
W«e you shooting hoop1 in St8P8n on Wed. 1/15? lloetmyblack watch (a Caio cheapie but it'a the only one I have) bet· _,8:00 8lld 8:00.11 you found it, pleae Cllll rn&-KIIVin 1750. Th.lnk&. 
FOUND: A COPY OF /luaiona byRichMd 88ch. If you received thia book in Mlly of '83 8nd can give your Mme. call Ctw1ee at 153701 atop by 401 C.van81.1Qh. Thill ia one book thtlt should not be mislaid or fot· gotten. 
LOST:BACKPACK l.oat Tuee.21(din-) a blue Notre 0"""' bM:kpack. Contents vital. Need IDe ur­gently. Reward offered. If found pleae Cllll Anita at 234-8002. 
l.oat: .,..nepi.W notebook In Car-8lld Pt.cement office on Tuee dey. I know ll'a 111M .-ty, but there -eacme important notee th811'd h.lte to loee. If you picked It up by rrillake, pteeee Cllll me at 3564. Thanka. 
FOUND: LEATHER GYM8AG IN SOUTH DINING HAll. PLEASE CLAIMATLOST AND FOUND SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
FOUND: TO THE GAL THAT "LOVES PIGS", YOUR KEYS HAVE SEEN FOUND! PLEASE CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND, LAFORTUNE. 
LOST: Bl8ck aWhite woven ecart. On It II a tag elating It ..... made in Ireland. call,. Tim at 1214. 
FOR RENT 
Semi-furnished house in good ne9lbor· hood 25S-3684/2n-3604 
WANTED 
Wanted: Girl Frid8y. Part time legal r~ 180'Mary Call233-3432 
MALE GUITARNOCALIST LOOKING FOR ANOTHER TO GET TOGETHER AND PLAY LOCAL COFFEE HOUSES AND BARS. ENJOY E.LISTENING, COUNTRY AND SOME POP ROCK. CALL ANYTIME AND LV MSG. 233-6682 
RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL, IL) JAN 31. WIU SHARE EXPENSES. SUE 284-4122. 
~lll..tl.onRide wanted 01 wiN llw'll expenanteave1 /31 return 2/2 M-'<1738 
WANTED 
lnexpenelve electric typewritfll in running condtion. Cd 238·5604 and llllk fot Betty. Th8nk&. 
FOR SALE 
IIUIT UNLOAD FLOPPY DIIKI. S1 PIR.IONZOMn 
TICKETS 
I need 2 beekelball ticketa, either GA 01 etudent, fot either the Marquetteg8me on Feb. 1 01 the Dayton game on March 8. call Mike at 283·1643. 
I NEED 3-4 TiCKETS TO THE MAR­OUEnE GAME, G.A. OR STUDENT TIX. PlEASE cAU BIU AT 2001 
I need up to 4 Marquette ticket./ Cd Milly at 2865 
............................................................;··· 
NEED: AT LEAST 2 TIX. G.A.. FOR MARYLAND, FEB.3. CALL 2984 LORETTA 
I NEED MARQ. OR MARYLAND GA'S­283-1638; JOHN 
NEED 4 MARQUEnE TIX. CALL DAVE 1058. 
YES, I have $$$ and, YES, I am delpfllately -king up to 4 (four) ticketa to the Mwquette g8tne!!! Cal me eo my friendl don't have to listen to the game on the radio. GREG • 4186, THAT'S GREG -4186 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1 MAR· OUEnE BASKETBALL TICKET. PLEASE CALL RAOUEL AT 2807 
I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR MARYLAND GAME. CALL2842. 
NEED 2-4 Marquette GA'a; CALL JIM at 2387;$$$ 
Need 2 GA'e fot Marquette. call Tom at 
1806. 
I NEED 2 TIX FOR NO VS. DAYTON BASKETBALL-STUDENT OR GA PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN-232·6298 
Help! I desperately need 3-4 Mwquette GA·a. PleMe call Mike at 3562. Th8nk&l 
PERSONALS 
................................................................. 
How many worde, how long doea it ,.keto say Who Are You? How long to say why? 
• Richard 88ch. ThellrtdgeAcr-F-er 
Fot moet who live, hell ilnev« knowing who they are. The Singer knew and knowing wa hil 
torment. 
• c.tvin Miller, 
The linger 
' ... • • .•• , a'' .. 
PUFFIUG, The i-.nd wu fun, but walt until Frou Frou... 
O.enP. 
HOI. Y CROSS ASSOCIATES ... ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE I One year poetgraduate wort<. Develop your faith 8nd discern your prioriti•. AP· PLICATION DEADLINE: Thi1 Fridtly (31at) Milly Roemer 7848. 
OAII HOUlE: COLD lEER I UOUOII. CANIY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.l. 31 N., 1 BLOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HOOP HYSTERIA T-aHIIITI Suppori Logan Center and the bul<etball team I Long and short llevee Stop by Room 221 Stanfotd or call 2088/2078 fot delivery 
Hungry? Call Yelfow Submarine at 272· HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am Mon­Thura; 5pm-2am Friday, 3pm-1am Sat; 4pm-10pm Sun. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­pNcetiona deadline 11 February .3. More info at Center fot Social Concerne. 
Do you ~keto take pictur•? Do you want to put your finger on the pulae of the campue? Do you have experience in llt.ck and White film proceaalng? Do you own a 35mm C8mera 8lld need extnt money? If you ane-ed y• to 8ny of th-quellione you really want to become a member of the elite OBSER· VER Photo Staff. WE NEED PHOTOORAHERS in 8 really 1*1 way. There are echeduled and freelance poel­tiO!W available. Apply at the Obeerver Office, third ftoor L8Fortune. 
Irish, jeanne, mary,ern, mag, kethy, mary, tom, troy, doug, chris, 18ur•. and everyone elea:thanke fot your Under· standing and tlllpport.l love and mlu you aH alot. 1'1 be back aooner th8n you think! ~of midnight blue caddl• with ob­noxiOUI window atickere In the coming week&! C8tchyuoondeniae 
Ute 11 really wonderful. ·Kolaki 
1121/86 
.•' ! : I , •! I ••• .... • '· :. ·! :.'· ·• 
You •e encouraged to attend a SWI Forum Tu-y, .len. 21817:JO p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwtand Science Hal. Bring your quelliona. comments, compilments and critici11Tl8. Refreahmenta wil be served. 
"We can Make You Laugh .. on Febuary 8 Hnot YOU win S25 
NEEDED CREATiVE AND/OR HARDWORKING PEOPLE TO HELP PLAN DECORATIONS FOR THE MS VALENTiNE'S DAY DANCE !!! IF IN­TERESTED CALL 2644 OR 35n 
............,.....................,. 
RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL. IL) JAN. 31. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. SUE 284-4122. . 
NEW OIILEANI CiLU. IIE.-EM­COIIE TO THE MEETING TUES., JAN. 21 AT 7:JO P.II.IN Rlll21 ZAHII HALL IIAIIDI GliAl PLANII NEW IIEIIIERI WELCOME. 
IF YOU LOVE SOMETHING. SET IT FREE. IF IT COMES BACK, IT'S YOURS. IF IT DOESN'T, HUNT IT DOWN AND KIUIT.11B 
DAVE NAPOLEON. Heppy 21 at !!!!! • any headaches? • 
Thi1 tangled web we weave. 
THANK YOU JESUS AND ST. JUDE. 
J8 
SOPHOMORES!SOPHOMORES! NO a SMC ICE CREAM SOCIAL NIGHT!! AT CHRIS'ICE CREAM TUESDAY, JAN 28 10.12pmBRING 15/COUPONS 
No, Ill Ufe is not like the Claavere. 
My Lady, I'd like to wish you a Happy Birthday and let you know that I love you very much !II 
-THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT· Featuring: "Naw Age Moth81'8...'' HCC CBmelion Room-SMC 8-11 Tu• J8n 28. Free Food! Come Over aListen To Niel Young, The Grateful Dead a Many More 
The Observer Monday, january 27, 1986 · page 1 1 
UNC defeats Tech, remains 1st in ACC 
ByJEFF BLUMB bombed away all afternoon from Sports Editor the outside and led the Jackets with 22 points on l 0-of-13 shoot· 
CHAPEl. HILL, N.C. ·Joe Wolf ing. Freshman Tom Hammonds and Brad Daugherty combined contributed 13 points to the for 'i'i points to lead No. l North losing effort. Carolina over No. 4 Georgia "North Carolina is a great Tech, H'i-77, Saturday to take team. They proved they were over first place in the ACC. better than us today," said Geor­
The two treams struggled with gia Tech coach Bobby Cremins. each other at the start, but then "They've got a lot of dangerous North Carolina broke the game tools. They really hurt us inside open midway through the first by overpowering us." half. The Tar Heels, 20-0 follow­S.turdey'e RMUitl 
North c.ro11na 85, Georgie Tech n
Ing the win, outscored Tech 17-4 
Georgie Tech (71)
over a 4: 19 span after the jackets 
M FG-A FT·A R F P had led 16-1 'i. 
Hammonds 29 5-6 3-3 10 5 13 From that point on, Carolina Ferrell 37 5-9 1-2 2 3 11 Sally 32 3-7 5-9 5 4 11
held Tech at bay, never letting 
Dalrymple 26 4-7 2-4 4 5 10
thejackets closer than six points. 
Price 37 10-13 2-3 0 1 22 North Carolina guards Kenny Ford 15 1-3 Q-1 4 1 2 
Smith and Steve Hale were able Neal 24 3-8 2-2 2 0 8 200 31·53 15-24 21 19 n
to get the baU into both Wolf and 
FG Pet. -.585. FT Pet. -.625. Team
Daugherty throughout the game. 
rebounds-0. Turnovers-17. Assists-18 
Wolf, scoring a career-high 22 
(Price 5). Technical&-none. points, was l 0-of-1 1 from the Not1h C.rollna (85) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P
field and grabbed eight 
29 10.11 2-4 8 3 22
rebounds. Daugherty, Carolina's 
Martin 19 3-6 3-4 5 5 9 leading scorer, added 23 points Daugherty 31 10-17 3-4 11 4 23 and II rebounds. Hale 37 3-12 2-3 1 3 8 "Smith and Hale did a good job 
K.Smith 37 2-8 1-2 3 2 5 Papson 12 2·2 o-o 3 2 4
of getting the ball Inside to our 
Lebo 19 5·9 2-2 3 1 12 
big men," said North Carolina R. Smith 20.00.0010 coach Dean Smith. "Tech's Madden 10 D-2 o-o 2 2 0 defense bothered us a little at the 
Hunter 4 1-2 o-o 1 0 2 200 3H9 13-19 37 23 85
outside, but then we were able to 
FG Pet. • .522. FT Pet. -.684. Team 
get it inside. Nobody said it 
rebounds-0. Turnovers-12. Assists· 23 would be ea.~y. nor did we expect (K. Smith 10). Technical&-none. It to be, and It wasn't." Halftime -North Caroline 42, Georgia Tech 31. Officials-Gerry Donaghy, Joe
Tech senior guard Mark Price 
Forte. Bob Taylor (all ACC). A-21,444. 

shots, and didn't move the ball
Heels 
around. I was a victim, along with a 
Irish
couple other guys."
continuedfrom page 16 
As the final minutes ticked off the • we wanted. We just weren't making clock, North Carolina held the ball 
rece1ve 
them, especially me. I didn't convert with a six-point lead in an attempt to the opportunities I had down the take time off the clock and get the stretch." Irish out of their 2-3 zone. Notre 
bomb threat 
Notre Dame, scheduled to face dame elected to stay back and let the Utah Wednesday night at the ACC, time run off, however. Spedal to The Obeuvcr 
held its only lead in the first half. "We didn't mind that one bit be­Rivers got a breakaway dunk, three cause we knew they had to shoot the The Notre Dame security office minutes in to put the Irish up 6-4. ball because of the shot clock," received a phone call yesterday af­
Rivers said. ternoon warning that the Irish bas­
The teams struggled with each ot­"It was probably a smart move on ketball team would be in danger If It her early, as the Irish built up their their part," said Smith. "That way boarded Its tlight out of Ra.leigh, confidence. Notre Dame was able to they could keep the game close, N.C., according to Security Director get on top at 16-13, but that was the knowing we'd have to make one or Rex Rakow. last lead the Irish would have in the two of them." The caller said "Coach (Digger) game. Phelps and the basketball team were 
Barlow got Notre Dame's first six Carolina did make one or two of in danger and that the plane would points of the second half after the them, and blew thew game open in not land," according to Rakow. The Irish had trailed 39-3 7 at intermis­the final minute. Kenny Smith caller also said that "the plane 
sion. The game stayed tight then un­capped off the win for the Tar Heels should be checked very carefully." til the Irish went cold and stopped with a full-court drive for a dunk, The Irish were returning to Notre scoring. very reminiscent of his winning Dame from their game against top­
"Defensively, we were able to score against the Irish in last year's ranked North Carolina In Chapel Hill shut them down much better in the NCAA Tournament. · yesterday afternoon. second half," said Carolina coach Rakow said that the call was Dean Smith. "We weren't gambling handled by a security dispatcher at as much and that helped us. Sundey'e RNUitl 3:53 p.m., and that it was a long­
North Cllrolllll 73, Notre Deme 61
"Notre Dame was really fired-up distance call. He described the caller 
Notre O.me (61)
coming in, !lfid outrebounded us as "an older, adult white male."
M FO.A FT·A A F P badly. They had a chance to point to Barlow 32 6-1"2 6-6 3. 3 18 After his warning about the team 
us more than we did them. But it all Royal 352-34-5248 plane, the caller went on to make Kempton 26 2·7 2·2 2 3 6
worked out for us." several derogatory comments about 
Rivers 39 7-17 3-4 2 4 17
But while North Carolina was Phelps, Rakow said.
Stevenson 19 3-4 o-o 3 o s 
taking credit for its defense in the Dolan 20 1-2 o-o 1 4 2 "We notified the Indiana State second half, the Irish wanted to Hicks 20 1·5 2·2 4 0 4 Police and the FBI immediately after Price 9D-3D-0200
place the blame more on them­we received the call," Rakow said.
200 22·53 17·19 19 18 61 
selves. "It is something that is In their juris­
FG Pet. • .415. FT Pet. -.895. Team "Everything was patience. If we rebounds -5. Turnovers -17. Assists -13 diction. They In turn notified the would have had patience for 40 (Royal, Kempton 3). Technical&-none. airline." North C.rollna (73)
minutes, we would have come out Before getting word of the threat,
M FG-A FT·A R F P 
on top," said Rivers, who had 17 the team had already changed to an
Wolf 29 6-7 4-4 4 2 16 points on 7-of-17 shooting. "But we Martin 19 3-4 o-o 1 4 s earlier flight because of inclement lost our concentration, took quick Daugherty 38 3-5 1-2 5 2 7 weather conditions. Both flights Hale 27 3-4 D-0256 
were detained and searched, but 
K.Smith 39 6-11 8-10 0 2 20 
nothing was turned up.
Papson 7 2-3 o-o 1 1 4 
Madden 10 3-4 2-2 1 0 8 "This was not like the usual crank 
Lebo 22 2-3 Q-0424 call we sometimes get after a team Hunter 8 1-2 o-o 0 0 2 
loses," said Rakow. "This was 
R. Smith 1 o-1 o-o 1 o o 
definitely a threat call."
200 29-44 15-18 19 18 73 
FG Pet. .659. FT Pet. -.833. Team The team was originally rebounds· 4. Turnovers-18. Assists-22 (K. scheduled for a Piedmont Airlines Smith 8). Technical&-none. 
flight out of Raleigh at 6:30 p.m., but 
Halftime • North Carolina 39, Notre Dame 
had changed to a United Airlines
37. Officials-Don Ferguson, Wally Tanner. Sonny Holmes (all SEC). A-21,444. flight scheduled to depart at 5: 10 
p.m. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------.....
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
l--------------~~-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
I Reg. $8 ,_...,~
r-------------------1I 
You're the man in charge. And you can your responsibility. handle it. Because the Navy has given you The rewards match up too. A solid the management and technical training to starting .salary of $19,000, and up to 
:s5OFF ANY PERM : 
get the job done. 
as much as $32,000 in four years with Thirty men report to you. And what you regular promotions and increases. 
I ~~I
do includes the care and responsibility Responsibility and rewards. It's the for millions of dollars worth of sophis­way you measure success in the Navy. 
~------------------~ 
ticated equipment. For more information, call toll-free At age 22 you can be a leader in the 1-800-382-9404, Mon-Wed, 8:30a.m.-2p.m. 
MasterCuts
Navy. With all the decision-making auth­A Navy representative will be on ori~y you need to help you match up to campus February 5th and 6th. 
famly hamJttErs "University Park Mall" 
2n-Jno
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER 

The Observer 
Pro wrestling comes back to ACC; Santana defeats the Macho Man 

By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 
Leaping Lanny Poffo, poet laureate of the World Wrestling Federation, set the tone for Saturday night's card at the ACC by reading a poem in which he accurately described the focal point ofthe main event before his match with Rene Goulet. 
"Tonight the Macho Man Randy Savage goes after Santana's belt, but Elizabeth's such a hot number, I'm afraid the gold will melt," recited Poffo. 
Elizabeth, Savage's stunningly beautiful manager, certainly upstaged the Macho Man's perfor­mance, as the more experienced Tito Santana handily defeated Savage to retain his Intercontinental Heavyweight Belt. 
Elizabeth's entrance roused the biggest cheer of the evening, as she appeared dressed in a sequined red tank top and blue miniskirt. Savage entered clad in an impressive black, red and gold cape, but was met with a chorus ofboos. 
Santana had the upper hand early in the match, and Savage quickly ducked out of the ring to escape the champion's onslaught. When San­tana pursued him outside ofthe ring, the Macho Man resorted to hiding behind Elizabeth for protection. 
Savage could not stay out of the ring forever, however, and when he returned, Santana went to work on his head with a series of elbow smashes and a devastating dropkick. Savage seemed to tum things around with a desperation eye poke, but after surviving a couple of pin at­tempts, Santana put him away with a vicious clothesline. The pin came at the 11:5 3 mark ofthe match. 
The most exciting match of the evening was a renewal of the fierce rivalry between "the Dragon," Ricky Steamboat, and "the Magnificent" Don Muraco. The 267-pound Muraco, a native of Sunset Beach, Hawaii, was accompanied by his manager Mr. Fuji. Steamboat, a mar­tial arts champion and an incredibly agile wrestler at 238 pounds, en­tered the arena to the music of "2001: A Space Odyssey." 
The early minutes of the match proved to be a struggle between the two wrestlers for possession of Steamboat's black belt. Steamboat used it first to strangle Muraco, but then the Magnificent One wrested 
Hal Sutton captures Phoenix Open tournament title; Sills, Peete fail to rally , finish two shots back in 2nd 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Hal Sutton, un­der pressure from Tony Sills, played a courageous shot over the comer of a lake on the 18th green that nailed . down the title in the Phoenix Open GolfToumament yesterday. 
Sutton, the leader all the way this hot, sunny day, needed only a round of par 71 as Sills and Calvin Peete were unable to sustain a challenge in the occasionally gusty winds. 
Sutton, a former PGA titleholder, gained this sixth victory of his five­year PGA tour career with a 267 to­tal, I 7 shots under par on the Phoenix Country Club course. 
The victory was worth $90,000 from the total purse of $500,000 and pushed his earnings for three tournaments this season to $137,967. 
Sills, 30, not yet a winner in three full seasons as a touring pro, recorded his career-high finish with a 68 that tied him for second with Peete, the defending titleholder here and a runaway winner two weeks ago in the Tournament of Champions. 
They were at 269, I 5 under par ­one better than Peete's winning to­tal last year -and two shots back. Each won $44,000. 
Peete also had a 3-under-par 68 despite an erratic putter. 
"I had a chance to put some heat on him but I just couldn't keep the putter hot. I missed short birdie putts on the 12th and 15th and that just about did it," Peete said. 
Dan Forsman, who scored an eagle-3 on the final hole, was next at 66-270 but never really got in the title chase. 
He was followed by Don Pooley and Australian Greg Norman, tied at 
271. Norman had a closing 70, 
Pooley69. 
No one else really was in it. 
Sutton, now the winner of three official events and a team title in the last six months, had a two-stroke lead over Sills going to the par-5 18th. 
But Sills put the pressure on him when he ran a long-iron shot over the sun-baked fairway, onto the green and to within six feet of the flag: He had that putt for eagle-3. 
Sutton, in the fairway, never hesitated. Playing it safe, laying it up, he said, never entered his mind. 
He, too, took an iron, a 2-iron from 246 yards, started it out over the comer ofthe lake. 
"I played it toward the left bunker and it went there like an arrow," Sut­ton sald. It kicked off the grass of a mound facing the bunker, kicked onto the green and ran through to the fringe, some 15 feet away. 
That did it. 

(More than 40 items to choose from) FREE Delivery fram Spm • Midnight 
272-5455 
wrestling maneuvers. flying elbow smashes, 
cane. At this point 
attempted some 
post, Muraco 
press from 
and the referee. 
again attempted to interfere. 
This time, however, Steamboat grabbed Fuji's cane and proceeded to attack everyone in the ring, in­cluding the battered referee. Steam­boat was immediately disqualified. 
But it wasn't easy. distance and made the birdie putt. 
"It was a tough putt. I was frozen That made moot the possibility of against the fringe and had to hit Sills' eagle. And Tony, who had failed down on it. Sometimes a shot like on a four-footer on the 17th, also that can explode and you run it 6-8 missed this one and had to settle for feet away," Sutton said. a birdie that lifted him into a tie for 
But he ran it up to within tap-in second. 
IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 

Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 
SPECIAL! Jan. 25-Feb.l4, 1986 
~------------------~ 
BED 10 visits $39.00 
NEW! Acu-ma~sage bed 1 visit $4.50 
$3 P~~ 15 mmutes BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 Buy 3 VJslts, get one free 1 visit $2.00 

J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
• 
: 14"LARGE THIN CRUST PIZZA ! 
• any topping with extra cheese 
PLUS 
Garlic Bread with che.ese 
Delivery Orders Only 
(plus delivery and tax) 
• $6.99 
• 


................................................... 
MARCH !Ia 1-8 !Ia 15-22 !Ia 8-15 !Ia 22-29 
CONDO OR HOTEL LODGING PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MORE! 
OFFICIAL BEACH TRIPS 
DON'T BE LEFT IN THE COLD! 
Um1ted Space Available 
CENTRAL BREAK RESERVAllONS 
USA & HAWAII 
1-8oo-321·5911 ~ se" 
COLORADO \)e ,~~ 
1-800·321-5912 .~~ 
or contact a local Sunchase representative or your local travel TODAY! 
----~--~------------------------­
The Observer Monday, January 27, 1986-page 13 

~Bears 
continued/rom page 16 
yards were the fewest in a Super Bowl since the Oakland Raiders allowed Minnesota 119 in 1977. 
So Chicago won the NFL title with 18 victories in 19 games, including three playoff victories in which they beat the New York Giants, Los An· geles Rams and the Patriots by an ag· gregate of 101-10. 
The Miami Dolphins won the Super Bowl in 1973 to cap an un· beaten season. But perhaps no other team · not the four-time Super Bowl· champion Pittsburgh Steelers, not the Green Bay Packers, not the 18·1 San Francisco 49ers last year -ever had such a dominant season as this year's Bears. 
Excluding their only loss, a 38·24 decision in Miami, the Bears won eight games against teams with records of 1 0-6 or better by a total of 245-40. 
About New England's only con· solation was that it became the first team to score on Chicago in the playoffs, on Tony Franklin's 36-yard field goal following a fumble 
sacks, forced two fumbles and dinator Buddy Ryan to take a head batted down one pass. coaching job. He said his turn on the podium "We know it's a chance for Buddy 
Dent 
Sunday night was the realization ofa to move on and be a head coach, but continuedfrompage /6 dream. that would be trouble for us," Dent "When I was growing up in high said. ''We talked to (team pr~sident) school, I got the feeling I could play Mike McCaskey on the sidelines and 
He said he was never really NFL football," he said. told him, we want him to keep serious about boycotting the Super "At Tennessee State, they had me Buddy here." .,. Bowl to dramatize his contract in the offensive line for the first year, Dent said that for the time being, problems. and things weren't going too well. he'll put all those worries aside and 
The second year, they put me on just relax and enjoy the honor he 
"I wasn't planning to pass It up," defense, and I began to see the wanted but didn't expect. Dc:nt said. "I couldn't pass up an op· light." "It's a good feeling, unusual. ponunlty like this. It's not often you He said that one of the few things Things like this don't happen too of· 
get here." that could keep Chicago from es­ten," he said. "I'm like a llttle kid. I tabllshing a football dynasty could just got a new toy, and I want to get Dent was In on two quanerback be the departure of defensive coor· outside and play with it." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
~AL 
BROfHERS 
A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISI'KY 
Committed to Christ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
1 ADMINISTRATION 1 NURSING I CLERICAL I TECHNICAL 
• PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY 1 LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE 1 MECHANICAL WORK 1 PUBLIC RELA­TIONS I PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 
••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION •••••••• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 
600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
Name-------------------­
Address-----------------­
CiiY------State_____Zip-----­
Age_ Education Tel No . _ 
• -JF29 
"A HEALING PRESENCE" :n•••••n•n•n•••n•u•••n•••••u••••n•••un•• 
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS: 
~lk CroVI' Viii.Jg<', Ill l~lizahC'th. N.I.!St. Louis, Mo./San lo,P, CoJI.!Signal MI., Tl'nn.!Milwaukee. Wise w.----------•Brothl'f' worktn~ tn llw Mt"l<>th, 111 th•• Phtltpptnl''· 

recovery 1:19 into the game and an eight-yard pass from Grogan to Ir­ving Fryar early in the fourth quaner. 
just about everything else went right for the Bears. They even got points on what the league admitted was a mistake by Red Cashion's of· ficiating crew, which allowed the Bears to kick a field goal after they were penalized at the end ofthe first half. An McNally, the NFL supervisor of officials, said the half should have been allowed to expire. 
New England's day lasted exactly one minute and 19 seconds. 
The 10 1/2-point underdog Patriots picked up where they'd left off in their three playoff victories on the road, when they forced 16 tur· novers. 
The 17th came on the second play of the game, when Garin Veris stopped Walter Payton in the back· field, shook the ball loose, and Larry McGrew recovered for New England at the Chicago 19. It was the third game in a row that the Pats had gotten a turnover no later than the second play. 
After Tony Eason threw three straight incomplete passes, Franklin kicked a 36-yard field goal, the first points scored against Chicago in the playoffs. Coming just 1:19 into the game, it was the earliest score ever in the Super Bowl. 
But that was it for New England. It took the Patriots more than two full quaners after that to get more yards than they had points. 
The Bears came back to tie on But· ler's 28-yard field goal 4:21 later. It was set up by a 43-yard pass from McMahon to Willie Gault, who beat Ronnie Lippett on the play. 
Chicago's swarming defense set up the next two scores, which came 
1:03 apan and gave the Bears a 13· 3 lead at the end of the period. So overpowering were the Bears that New England didn't run a play that gained yardage until Craig James ran for three yards on the final play of thequaner. 
First Hampton recovered a fumble forced when Perry, Dent and Steve McMichael swarmed Eason at the New England 13. That set up Butler's 24-yard field goal with 1:24 left in the period. 
The highlight of that possesion came when Perry entered the game with the ball on the five-yard Hne. He took a pitchout from McMahon, raised his arm in the air and was sacked for a one-yard loss, a punish­ment he's more used to administer· ing. 
On the first play after the kickoff, James was dumped and fumbled, and Mike Singletary recovered at the 
13. One play later, Suhey took a pitchout, cut back inside and went 11 yards for the game's first touch· down with 23 seconds left in the 
period. 
The next time, it was the· offense 
that did it, going 59 rards in 1 0 plays 
to make it 20· 3. 
McMahon got the touchdown on 
an option play, faking to Perry, then 
sliding into the end zone from two 
yards out as The Refrigerator 
obliterated McGrew and Tim 
Wrightman threw another key 
block. 
New England finally got a first 
down with four minutes left in the 
half after Steve Grogan replaced 
Eason at quanerback. On that series, 
Grogan also threw the Pats' first two 
completions after Eason had gone 
zero for six, been sacked three times 
and fumbled once. 
Chicago made it 23·3 at halftime 
on Butler's 24-yard field goal on the 
final play ofthe half after a drive that 
began at its own 20. The key play 
was a 29-yard completion from 
McMahon to Ken Margerum. 
But Butler never should have 
been allowed to kick. 
With the ball at the two, the clock 
ticking toward zero and the teams 
milling about, centerJay Hilgenberg 
snapped the ball and McMahon 
threw it out of bounds. A flag was 
thrown and illegal procedure called 
on the Bears; three seconds showed 
on the clock and Butler took the 
kick. 
McNally, however, said later that because the Bears had no time outs left, 1 0 seconds should have been run off the clock before the play. That would have ended the half wit­hout the kick. But since it had aJ. ready happened when the mistake was discovered, the score had to stand. 
If the game had been closer, it would have led to one ofthe biggest controversies in Super Bowl history. As it was, it mattered not at all. 
Chicago made it 30·3 on its first possession of the second half. 
Stuck on their own four by Rich Camarlllo's 62-yard punt, a Super Bowl record, they moved with a 60· yard pass from McMahon to Gault. McMahon capped the 96-yard, nine· play drive by diving over from the one for the score. 
One minute and six seconds later came another TD, this one on the in· terception by Phillips, who plucked a Grogan pass that bounced off New England tight end Derrick Ramsey and rambled 28 yards to make it 37· 3. 
Wilber Marshall's recovery of Cedric Jones' fumble set up the final ID, a one-yard run by Perry, a defensive starter who scored two touchdowns rushing and one receiv· ing during the regular season. 
Waechter, a reserve defensive tackle, sacked Grogan in the end zone with 5:36left in the game. 

The Observer Monday, january 27, 1986-page 14 
ND women edge by DePaul, 55-53; Botham scores 15 points in victory 
By MARlY STRASEN "The key to our offense tonight That's called experience and you Sports Writer was to get the ball reversed. When can't do without it. we reversed the ball, it really looked "I think we kept in with the tradi­
Patience was the name of the open inside. Every time Sandy tion of Super Sunday this afternoon. game at the ACC yesterday after­( Botham) posted up she was able to We won. It might not have been noon as the Notre Dame women's get in the dear. Overall, I think we pretty, but we won." basketball team outlasted a quick played pretty well." team from DePaul to earn a 55-53 Botham attributed her success in 
Sundlly'a R.-ulta victory. the middle to the overplaying Notre Deme women 55, DePaul women 53 Things did not look good for the defense of DePaul. 
DePeul women (53) M FG-A FT·A R F P
Irish and Head Coach Mary DiStanis­"We saw that they were overplay­
Thorsen 14 1-2 1-2 0 0 3 
lao in the first half, as the Blue ing down low and we took 
Joiner 40 6-9 2-4 9 4 14 Demons held the leadfor better than advantage by spreading it out a little Manuel 25 2·5 2·2 1 0 3 6 18 minutes. Trena Keys, usually a bit," Botham said. "They were all 
Anderson 40 6-21 5-7 1 3 17 Hogan 27 0·1 0·0 2 5 0
major factor for Notre Dame in the over us inside, but they just didn't 
Mitchell 13 0·2 Q-1 1 0 0 
scoring department, was held to just have the size. They may have been a 
Morgan 2Q-00-0010 two points in the contest, which little quicker but they don't have a Ollie 1 o-o Q-0000 came on a drive to the hoop at the lot ofpower." Watts 4 o-o o-o22o 
Streit 90-QQ-0200
first-halfbuzzer to cut the lead to 28-The Irish pulled away from the 
Fitzpatrick 4Q-OQ-0010
27. DePaul doubleteamed Keys all Demons early in the second half, Vines 21 6-15 1-4 9 5 13 
afternoon by using a diamond-and­opening up a 35-30 lead, and then 199 21·55 11-20 36 24 53 FG Pet. .382. FT Pet. -.550. Team
one defense, but the Irish waited controlled the game until becoming 
rebounds -0. Turnovers -18. Assists -7
patiently for other players to find the sloppy down the stretch. DePaul 
(Hogan 2). Technicals-none. 
openings. scored six unanswered points in the "Control of the game was up for final minute of the game but could 
Notre Dame women (55) 
grabs," said DiStanisJao. "We let not overcome an eight-point Notre 
M FG-A FT·A R F P
DePaul take control in the first half Dame lead. 
Keys 28 1-11 Q-1 3 1 2 
with the diamond-and-one defense, "Sandy ( Botham) and Lavetta Willis 32 2-4 2-4 6 5 6 
which took some high-percentage (Willis) played super games," DiS­Botham 27 7-11 1·3 11 4 15 Gavin 40 6-11 2-4 2 2 14
shots away from us. In the second tanislao said. "I thought Lavetta did a 
Ebben 32 3-7 3-4 8 3 9
By CHRISTINE FORTIN Mich. Hope worked for an early 39-half we saw what they were doing great job on Jackie Joiner and Mary 
Toney 21 2-4 1-2 5 4 5 Sports Writer 24 lead, and the Belles were never and then took advantage ofwhat we Gavin played outstanding defense Brommeland 11 1-2 o-o 1 2 2 able to come within four points of saw." on Anderson." Bunek 90·02-3212 The Saint Mary's basketball team Hope's score. In particular, 5-6 guard Mary 
200 22·50 11·21 38 22 55 FG Pet. -.440. FT Pet. • .524. Team
finished second in the four-team "It was a super effort on our girls' Gavin was able to find the openings Notre Dame shot 44 percent from 
rebounds -0. Turnovers • 23. Assists • 14
Saint Mary's Round Ball Classic part," commented Wood, even and pick apart the Blue Demon the field to DePaul's 38.2 percent (Gavin 6). Technicals-none. Tournament over the weekend. On though his team could not break the defense with crisp passing and and outrebounded the Blue Demons Halftime-DePaul28, Notre Dame 27. Offi· cials-Donna Wegner, Lou Pitt.
Friday, the Belles downed Grace four-point impasse. timely shooting. The sophomore 38-36. The victory gives the Irish a College, 72-60, but fell to Hope Col­Tammye Radke led Saint Mary's in found 6-2 center Sandy Botham 1 0-6 record on the season and was lege in the championship game on scoring with 22 points. Beth Kreher open in the middle on a number of their third in as many games against Saturday, 71-64. Purdue-Calumet pulled down 1 0 rebounds, and Kris occasions, lobbing passes inside and North Star Conference opponents. 
SObering
was the fourth team in the tourna­Pantellaria aided the team with six enabling Botham to lead the team in DiStanislao was pleased with her ment. assists. scoring with 15 points. In addition team's success over one of the con­
Advice .·
The Belles took an early 18-4 lead Saint Mary's players Beth Kreher to pouring in 14 points on 6-of-11 ference favorites. over Grace College. At halfft:ime, the and Tammye Radke were both shooting, Gavin held the explosive "It was one of those games that Belles were up 40-20 and led by no selected to the All Tournament 5-5 Blue Demon guard Sally Ander­I'm very pleased we won," she ex­
~nsa~
1
less than 12 points throughout the team, as were two players from son to just 1 7 points for the Blue plained. "We made a few mistakes at game as they coasted to their 72-60 Hope and one from Purdue­Demons. With Anderson, that is the end which made it closer than it 
alife ~ 
victory. Calumet. quite a feat. should have been, but as long as we 
·~-­
Beth Kreher led the Belles in "I'd say (Anderson) was the best learned from the game, that's what scoring, contributing 25 points to "I am very pleased with the young I've played against so far," Gavin ex­counts. We got some clutch play the effort. Tammye Radke led the ladies," commented Wood on his plained. "She's so quick. from Lynn Ebben in the second half. team in steals, assists and rebounds team's performance. "In the last with five, seven and seven seven games they've performed well respectively. Belles' coach Marvin and improved a lot. 
Dr. Tom Dooley Awareness Week
Wood was happy to boast that all 16 "They've played consistently both players saw action in the game. defensively and offensively. Our 5-7 
The Belles lost the championship record is more favorable than last Thursday Jan. 30 at Center for Social Concerns 

game to Hope College from Holland, year's." 
Chinese. Vietnamese & American Food 

·Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dining Room 272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~0'0. 
Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~~ on State Road 23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. & Weds.1o-,.oH withdiningroomcoupononly 
.a: Spring Film Series CQI1liT¥J1ICAIJO t. I H fAIR (  
&rand llluslqn  Open City  
Jean Renoir's masterpiece about French soldiers In WWiprlslon camps Is still one of the strongest anti-War statements In cinema. Von Strohelm Is stunning as the  Roberto Rossellini's award winning classic about the occupation of Rome was begun while the Nazis still occupied the city. This un­polished gem became a founda- 
German commandant, Gobin  tlon stone of the neo-reallst  
and Dallo no less so.  movement  
mon. 7:00  Mon.9:00  
Bizarre  Pauline at the Beach  
A delightful burlesque from the  One of the films making up Eric  
famous (or Infamous) Corne/  Rohmer's most recent series,  
prevert team. An all French cast  'Comedies and Proverbs,' Is a  
play class conscious Englishmen  delightful and thoughtful exam- 
from a French perspective, result·  I nation of love as It Is experlenc­ 
lng In a truly lilzarre, but truly  ed by an eccentric group of  
humorous film.  vacationers.  
Tues. 7:30  frl 7:30 and 9:30  
All films shown In the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snlte  




---~------~-------­
~~.:ll.at~------------------------------------------M•o•n•d•a•y-,J-a.nu.~_._2_7_,_19•8•6··•p•a•g·e·l-S
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Sllentone 5 Distinctive 
airs 10 Statutes 14 Verdi work 15 Sudden 
outburst 16 Shore bird 17 Look narrowly 18 Sound 
detector 19 "Ugly duckling" 20 What boxers 
train on 23 Coal mine 24 Dawn goddess 25 Paint spreader 27 Exhausted 32 Short drive 33-davie 
(brandy) 34 Fr. painter 36 Persuasions 39 Laborer of old 41 Pleceof 
fairway turf 43 Do errands 
~ 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
44 Ornaments Friday's Solution
All Rights Reserved 
46 Fodder 
storehouses 4 Author Proust 48 Time period 5 Helpedout 49 Fowl 6 Hepto51 Lamented 7 Chair support 53 Firs 8 Street urchins 
56 Fellow 9 Belts 57 Actor Wallach 10 Dunderhead 58 Is powerful 11 Cattle herder 64-too soon 12 Bring up 66 Talks wildly the rear 67 Traditional 13-Fe 
knowledge 21 Weeded 68 Guitarist 22 Lacunae 
Atkins 26 Dead heats 69 Delicacy 27 Exploit 70 Declare firmly 28 Facility 71 Dish of 29 Joke endings 
leftovers 30 Protective 72 Stargazers shield 73 Seance sounds 31 Saul's suc-45 Easy matter 59 Patella's 
cessor 47 Verbal thrust place DOWN 35 Foodflsh 50 Stings 60 Play lead 1 Lll Abner 37 Raced 52 Eye-like 61 Star type 
creator 38 Old plana 53 Judicial 62 Planting yield 2 Stead 40 -out (makes service 63 Falls 3 Middle East do) 54 Hllo greeting 65 Ordinal-form· 
gull 42 Spars 55 Fright lng suffix 


Campus 
•3:30 
P.M.· Aero-Mech. EngineeringSemi­nar, "Coherent Structures In a Turbulent Boundary Layer Part I. Generation ofArtificial Burst," Dr. Mohamed Gad·el·Hak, Flow Research Co., Kent, Washington, Room 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4:00 
P.M. · Economk:s Department Semi­nar, Dr. Edward Lorenz, Cambridge Univer­sity, Room 124 Hayes-Healy 

•5: 
15 P.M. Mass, Association of Filipino-Americans in Mlchiana, Father Theodore Hesburgh, principle celebrant and homilist, Sacred Heart Church 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Baked Ham Chicken Enchiladas Pasta Primavera Veal Pepper Grinder 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
Washington Hall Student Activities Tickets at the 
16 NewsCc:nter 16 ll Eyewitness News 28 Ncwswatch 28 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC World News Tonight 16 M0A0S•H 22 Three's Company l8 Jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 28 Wheel ofFortune 16 TV Bloopers &Jokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. KJng Z8 The American Music Awards J-' Wonderworks: "Marlcela" 46 calvary Temple 16 NBC Monday Night Movie 22 Kate a: Allie 
•7:00 
P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series I, "Grand Illusion," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M. · Presentadon-Recepdon, for Business, Arts and Letters and MBA students interested in career opportunities with First National Bank of Omaha, Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn, Sponsored by The Finance Club 

•7:00 
P.M. · Meedng, Pre-Professional Society, Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•7:30 
P.M.· Meedng, Rally Against Starvation, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•9:00 
P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series D, "Op~n City," Annenberg Auditorium 


9:30P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
!2:00A.M. 12:30P.M. 2:00A.M. 
Saint Mary's Roast Turkey with Dressing Beef & Bean Burritos Vegetarian Chow Mein 
Quiche Lorraine  
rr'..  
J-' 46 22 z:z 46 16 22 28 J-' 46 16  American Playhouse: Roommate" LcscaAllve Newhart Cafpley & Lacey The Millie ofComp111111ion NcwaCentcr 16 EycwitneM News Newswatch 28 Body l!kctrlc Praise the Lord Tonight Show  "The  

22 Rc1Jlin8ton Steele · "The Abduc· tlon ofSalpt Anne" 
28 ABC News Nlghdine 
J-' Star Trek 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
16 David Letterman 
22 Nlghtwatch 
46 Independent Network News 
-~ ~ 
Monday, January 27, 1986-page 16. 
S~orts 
Bears devour Patriots in Super Bowl rout, 46-10 
McMahon scores twice in most lopsided game 
NEW ORLEANS -The Chicago Bears completed one of the most dominating NFL seasons ever with the most dominating Super Bowl, crushing New England 46-I 0 yesterday behind the clutch quarterbacking ofJim McMahon and an overpowering defense that turned the fatriots' offense into a retreat. 
McMahon, whose sore buttock and off-the-field antics dominated the week befOre the game, scored on two short runs and completed 12 of 20 attempts for 2 56 yards before leaving the game In the third quarter with a sprained left wrist. 
And William "The Refrigerator" Perry, the 300-pound lineman, ran for a touchdown after being sacked in his first pro passing attempt. 
The score might point to an offensive game, but it was the defense, with seven sacks and a safety, that brought the Bears their first NFL title since 1963. 
Led by ends Dan Hampton and Most Valuable Player Richard Dent, the "46" alignment that often puts eight men on the line of scrimmage limited New England to minus-19 yards in the first half, as the Bears moved to a 23-3 lead on three field goals by Kevin Butler and TD runs by McMahon and running back MattSuhey. 
The Patriots gained yardage on onlyone oftheir first 16 plays from scrimmage and failed to complete a pass for 25 minutes or get a first down for 26 as Chicago registered six sacks. 
In fact, New England didn't raise its net yardage total above zero until Chicago was far ahead. The Bears had opened it to 44-3 by the end of the third quarter on one-yard TD runs by McMahon and Perry and Reggie Phillips' 28-yard interception 
return. A safety by Henry Waechter, tackling Pats' quarterback Steve Grogan in the end zone as he tried to pass, capped the scoring. 
That was the major factor in Super Bowl records for most points and largest margin of victory. The Patriots' 123 total 
see BEARS, page 13 

Bears' quarterback Jim McMahon signals touch­down in the NFC championship game against the Rams. McMahon bad plenty of opportunities to make the am signal in yesterday's Super Bowl, as the Bear's routed the Patriots, 46-10. Game details appear at left, while game MVP Richard Dent's per­
fo~nce isfeatured at right. 
Dent named game MVP, leads Bears' defense 
NEW ORLEANS-Richard Dent was one ofthe quiet members ofthe Chicago Bears football team through the week leading up to yesterday's Super Bowl. 
But he made the most of his opportunity to talk after being named the game's most valuable player. 
While linebacker Otis Wilson was predicting "goose eggs" for the New England Patriots, and quarterback Jim McMahon was occupying the headlines with everything from ac­cupuncture to mooning passing helicopters, Dent was relatively low key. 
On Sunday, he accepted the MVP trophy on behalf of a defense that held the Patriots to minus yardage for the first 30 minutes of play, did not allow any kind of gain on any play for the first quarter and didn't allow a first down until the final 2:40 ofthe first half. 
But Dent said the Bears' big day started off a little rocky. 
"On the first play, John Hannah (New England's perennial All-Pro guard) hit me pretty good· knocked me on my butt," Dent said "He let me know he was serious. 
"I had to retaliate. I've never been hit that hard in my life." 
The shutout that Wilson predicted and the rest of the team wanted disappeared less than two minutes into the game when New England converted a fumble Into a field goal. 
Still, Dent said, he knew after that score that Chicago had the game won. 
"We were hoping for a shutout, then with the offense giving them the ball, that went right down the drain," Dent said. "We didn't get the shutout, but we didn't give them any yards, and at that time we knew that we had them." 
Dent, who was outspoken about his unhappiness with his current contract with the Bears, refused to talk about that last night. 
"We'll just let that take care ofitself." 
see DENT, page 13 
North Carolina spoils Irish upset hopes, 73-61 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-When David Rivers hit a jumperwith 11:23left to tie the game at 53, things looked very bright fOr the Notre Dame bas­ketball team. The Irish had stayed even with top-ranked and unbeaten North Carolina through nearly 29 minutes of action yesterday and their confidence seemed to be growing each time down the floor. 
But then, as if a faucet was being shut off, the scoring stopped for Notre Dame. Only two more field goals by Rivers and four tree throws Besides missing the shots, we by Ken Barlow would drip out of weren't getting the offensive that faucet the rest of the way as the rebounds. 
16th-ranked Irish fell to the Tar "Other than that, I like the way we Heels, 73-61. played today. Defensively, we did a 
Notre Dame, 12-3, went almost lot ofgood thinS", andwe didn't turn completely cold from the field in the the ball over in key situations. final 11 minutes, scoring only eight "We have nothing to be ashamed points. Following Rivers' game-tying of," Phelps continued. "We played basket, the Irish did not score again smart basketball. Playing a team as 
until only 3:52 remained. good as North Carolina, especially 
"We had good, open shots. We on the road, will help us down the just weren't hitting them," said road in the NCAA Tournament." Norte Dame coach Digger Phelps. The Irish played well in many "That drought really hurt us and was ways in this game. Most noticeable the turning point in the game. was the way \Jl which Notre Dame shut down Carolina's top two scorers, Brad Daugherty and Steve Hale. 
Daugherty did not score his first points of the game until he hit a baseline jumper weith 3:08 left in the first half, and Hale was unable to get in the scorebook until nearly six minutes after intermission. 
Carrying a 20.3 scoring average coming into the game, Daugherty could manage only seven points on the afternoon. Hale, second in Carolina scoring at 11.8 points per game, contributed just six points to the Tar Heels' effort. 
North Carolina, 21·0, did get plenty of scoring help from point guard Kenny Smith. Smith put in a game-high 20 points, 14 in the second half. The Irish also did agood job of breaking Carolina's trapping, or "scramble," defense. Notre Dame turned the ball over only 11 times in the game. 
"From the films, we knew they liked to trap a lot, but it didn't give us any trouble," said Barlow, who led the Irish with 18 points. "We played fairly well and were gettingthe shots 
See HEELS, page 11 

Physical inside play marks game 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. · Following their 73·61 win over the Irish, North Carolina players and coaches would have had you believe that the Bears­Patriots matchup later in the day wasn't the only football game being played. 
"I didn't think the Super Bowl started until 5, but it was out there," said Tar Heels center Brad Daug­herty. "Notre Dame played hard, and they played physical." 
But Daugherty also suggested that the Irish would have had at least a few penalty tlaS" thrown their way had it been a football game. 
"They really were holding on to us," he said. "If they weren't grab­bing our jersey, they were hookinhg our arms. There is a way to play physical without doing that. 
"Usually there's one individual on a team who's the so-called hatchet man, but today everybody on their team was doing it." 
Arid North Carolina coach Dean Smith already had a plan for when his team visits the ACC next January for a return game. 
"We're going to take tear-away jerseys when we go to Notre Dame next year," he said, "so that when we are held, the jersey will tear away and we can break free." 
While he will have graduated, Carolina's Warren Martin thought Smith just might have the right idea. 
"Tear-away jerseys might be the answer," Martin said, "because every time you'd take a step past them, the Notre Dame players would hold you." 
Numerous blows were ex· changed between players on both sides. Martin was hit in the eye in one pileup and on at least two occa· sions, Carolina's Joe Wolf could be seen dishing out forearms on Jim Dolan ofthe Irish. Dolan also was hit in the face once on a player control foul by the Heels' Dave Popson. 
After one whistle in the first half, an official pulled aside Daugherty and Dolan. According to Daugherty, both players were told to calmdown their physical play or he would sit the two ofthem down. 
Coming in, the Irish knew Carolina was slightly bigger than them and that they would have their work cut out for them. 
"We knew we'd have to work hard. The whole week we con­centrated on defensing their big men inside because we knewwe had to do that to win," Irish center Tim Kempton said. " ·At any one time today, you'd have five or six big guys out there poundingon each other. It wasa clean, physical game, though." 
Daugherty, however, disagreed with Kempton's assessment. 
"I guess the refs were out to lunch," he said, "because there were so many things they didn't call. 
"I was diappointed with Notre Dame. I expected so much more from them. This was not the same team we played last year in the NCAA Tournament." 
No matter how much the Tar Heels complained about the physi­cal play of the Irish, Notre Dame did come out ahead in at least one way. The Irish outrebounded Carolina 24-23 to maintain the distinction of having outrebounded every op­ponent but one (American Univer­sity) this season. 

