
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
The Fly-page 7 

The Observc.navtd fisher

Welcome, Lou 

One of the first banners for this week-end's football game against Michigan State hangs outside Howard Hall. Prepara­tions are already being feverishly made for the game, which is on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. 
Study lounges still temporary home ~ to more than 50 Notre Dame frosh I 
By KATIE SULLIVAN number is gradually diminishing missions, says that no one is to 
News Sta(( 
as the "no show" list is compiled. blame. "The main problem, and 

Freshman will be assigned a one we are working with daily,More than 50 Notre Dame dorm room according to the date are those students who had con­freshmen remain in study their enrollment confirmations firmed and paid their deposit but 
lounges, according to Evelyn 
were sent, Reinebold said earlier. who decide for some reason not Reinebold, director of student 
The sooner a student sends in to attend Notre Dame arid never 

residences. 
his confirmation, the quicker he inform the University of their "We're moving as rapidly as we 
will be moved out. decision." According to can," said Reinebold, director of 
Leonardo this is where numbers student residences. According to Reinebold the get confusing and housing does According to Jenny Gooley, reason for the lack of freshman not have enough rooms. 
housing clerk, 26 freshmen student housing is due solely to remain in study lounges in Grace late enrollment confirmations. Dave Teneles and Tim Craw­Hall and 25 in Flanner. Several "As far as we are concerned there ford are two freshmen in Grace students in Sorin Hall are also is no controversy. The Registrar Hall living in study lounges. Both living in study lounges, said hasn't compiled a complete 'no Teneles and Crawford no longer Gooley. show' list at this time. When we mind being in the lounges. 
Approximately 84 freshmen receive it these freshmen will be "We're kind of used to it all," said were placed in study lounges due assigned rooms as soon as pos­Teneles. "At first we really didn't to overfilled dorms at the begin­sible," she said. think the University cared. Every­ning or the school year. The Pat Leonardo, director of ad-thing was just thrown together." 
L______________________________ -------­

ND-subway lawsuit to go to court 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The lawsuit filed by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame against the Fighting Irish Subway Alumni As­sociation is expected to go to court sometime this spring, said Philip Faccenda, general counsel for the University. 
Claiming unlawful use of a federally-registered trademark, the University filed suit in federal court against the Subway Alumni Association in April 1985. Her­bert Juliano. former long-term employee of the University and founder of the Subway Alumni Association, likened the legal battle to a "David and Goliath" confrontation. 
"All my members are distressed and distraught that Notre Dame chose to attack us," said Juliano. "We expected to be welcomed with open arms not viewed as outcasts. Now, the Uni­versity is dragging us through court until they force us into bankruptcy." 
The Subway Alumni Associa­tion, founded in spring 1984 by Juliano, who was then employed in the Athletic Department, has been supported lately by Juliano's personal finances. Juliano, who referred to himself as "a giver, not a taker" during his thirty-six years of service to the University, said that he is forced to live on $400 per month, partially on Social Secur­ity and personal savings. Be­cause of the financial burden of operating the Subway Alumni As­sociation, whose membership has dropped 50 percent in the wake of the University's lawsuit, Juliano said that he will not spend any more of his own "meager life savings" on the As­sociation. 
Faccenda explained that the University has very good reason for filing suit against the Fighting Irish Subway Alumni Associa­tion. He said that the University 
see SUIT, page 4 


SYR schedule considered last night byHPC 
By J CHRISTOPHER MURPHY 
News Staff 
Last night's meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council sparked a discussion concerning the exten­sion of parietals and University policy regarding off-campus ac­tivities. 
HPC attempted to alleviate the problem of ten SYR's scheduled on the same weekend by having dorms attempt to change the dates of their dances. The real discussion arose concerning the extension of parietals and the possibility of having the dances on football weekends. 
According to several ha11 presi­dents, the office of John Goldrick, associate vice presi­dent for residence life, recom­mended that rectors do not en­courage SYR's in general and discouraged an extension of parietals for the functions. 
Rector and rectress complaints of having to place resident assis­tants at dorm entrances and also at off campus dances was the argument against holding off­campus dances on football weekends. 
In other HPC news, hall presi­dents John Walsh of Dillon, Frank Publicovcr of Keenan and Jim Ryan of Morrissey are plan­ning to speak with Goldrick con­cerning the University's state­ments on SYR's and alcohol policy for off-campus student residents. 
Joanie Cahill, HPC co-chairman, said, "We want stu­dents to be aware of the situation regarding University policy and police actions in off-campus ac­tivities.·: 
HPC is implementing the "Adopt A Section" campaign in hopes of sparking more interhall activities. The program is de­signed to have one section from each dorm to be paired with a section from another dorm to get together for social and athletic events. 

A stray dog follows a student into the Memorial the campus during the day yesterday. Library last night. The dog was sighted roaming 
South Shore railway will not run on weekends, tentative plan directs 
Associated Press $I million for the commuter dis­percent of the South Shore's pas­
trict. Expenses would be reduced sengers would be incon­
INDIANAPOLIS -Commuter by about $3 million, but fares venienced by the cuts. passenger service on the South would likely drop by about $2 "It will be a tremendous trans­Shore Railroad would be cur­million, he said. portation impact in northwest In­tailed during off-peak hours and Last year, the commuter dis­diana," he said. "Some pas­eliminated on weekends under a trict's costs for passenger service sengers will be displaced....lt is plan approved yesterday by the were about $7 million more than not a very happy proposal for state Transportation Coordinat­fare revenues, he said. Approxi­us." ing Board. mately $5 million in state and The transportation board also 
The proposal by the Northern federal subsidies covers part of adopted a resolution encourag­Indiana Commuter Transporta­that shortfall, he-said. ing the State Board for tion District would trim daily ser­He said the $I million savings Depositories to approve a $2.6 vice from 37 trains to 17. Peak­should cover what transportation million loan for the commuter hour service would be district officials believe is the cur­district which contracts with the maintained on the railroad that rent difference between fares South Shore for commuter ser­carries about 3 million pas­and costs. vice. sengers a year on tracks between The NICTD board of directors A measure approved by the South Bend and Chicago. approved the plan Aug. 28. 1986 General Assembly author­
"It's forced by hard-core finan­Having won the state transporta­ized the loan to ease the com­cial questions. It is nqt some­tion panel's approval, NICTD muter district's financial prob­thing that we would want to do must submit the proposal to the lems. The board is scheduled to from a policy standpoint" said Interstate Commerce Commis­meet Sept. I 5 to consider ap­Gerald Hanas, general manager sion. proving the loan. of the Northern Indiana Com­Hanas said the ICC could take William Watt, chairman of the muter Transportation District. from 45 days to four months to transportation board, predicted 
Hanas said the cutbacks would process the proposal. the commuter service could col­produce a net savings of about He estimated that about 25 lapse if the loan is not received. 

~------~------~---------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 2 
Study lounges are for studying
In Brief 
A former University of Southern California employee has admitted to tapping into the campus computer system during a period of two years, apparently tampering with students' grades in return for money. USC administrators think 43 students paid the employee and two others to fix their grades. Since the scheme was uncovered last spring. 14 USC students have been expelled and the records of another 14 have been put on hold, pending further investigation. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Placement Night for all science seniors will be tonight at 7 in the iibrary auditorium. Career and Placement Services strongly recommend that these students attend. -The Ob­server 
Registered Notre Dame organizations must appeal for Stu­dent Government funding by Thursday, September 18. Ap­plications are available in the Student Activities office on Lafortune's third floor. -The Observer 
"The Dating Game" will be the focus of tonight's sexual violence seminar sponsored by Saint Mary's student govern­ment. A panel discussion moderated by Willis Bartlett will speak on dating at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame at 6:45p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. -The Observer 
Former President Ford can't seem to shake his reputation for clumsiness. Ford was in the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Hills Monday to speak at a fund-raiser for Jim Dunn, the Republican candidate for the 6th Congressional District. When he finished taking questions from reporters, Ford smiled and backed into a low-hanging chandelier. He wasn't hurt but the incident added to his list of minor accidents that have ranged from getting knocked over by a chair lift while skiing to hitting a spectator with a golf drive to stumbling on an airplane ramp. -Associated Press 
Geraldine Ferraro's stay on the Columbia University faculty was brief -just long enough for the university to announce that she would teach a course, and then announce that she had canceled. The former congresswoman and Democratic vice-presidential candidate had agreed to teach a course on "Critical Issues of Public Policy" for graduate students at Co­lumbia's School of International and Public Affairs. The school put out a news release quoting Ferraro as saying she was excited by the prospect of working with graduate students this fall. But on Monday, Columbia officials said Ferraro had backed out. Carol Vacchione, her spokeswoman, said the change was made because "her plans have changed ... She had personal reasons." She would not elaborate. -Associated 
Press 
Weather 
Tonight there is a 4Q percent chance of showers with highs in the upper 70s and lows in the upper 60s. What will tomor­row bring? An "enlightening" probability of thundershowers with highs in the upper 70s. 

=--=Ihe_=-Observer 
Design Editor ....... Melissa Warnke Sports Copyt:.dllor . ... Rick Rietbrock Design Assistant . ..... Chris Donnelly Features Copy Editor ...... Ed Nolan Layout Staff. ........ Heather Hypes Typists ................ Ester Ivory 
................... Tom Schiesser ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovic Typesellers . ........... Michael Buc Ad Design ...... mary Carol Creadon News Editor . .......... Jane Kravcik ..................... Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Photogr(lpher . ........ David Fischer 
lbr Obtorrvrr ( t·~~ ~')9 l~ HlOO l "puhh>hnl ~londa~ through ~nda~ ~Xl'~pt dunn~ exam and ViA<.: at Jon peruJd!~o The-ObKrvtr" puhlio.,ht·d h~ lht' 'lm.knt!'t tJI rhc: I OJ\ t"f,JI~ nf :'\lotre Damr" and Satnl .\bry'!\ ( ullt"l(t" ~uh'f..·nplion~ rna~ i"K" pun.·hoao..t·d tor S '\0 pt·r year ( llU txr !'l<:"ffie!\tt"r) b~ \\-TIIIOI( The-Ob!K'rver. P <) Hox <}. 'orn· Uanw lntkJ.nJ 
~16~~6 
lbr Obtorrvrr " a m~mher ol Thr As.<iOCiatrd Prrss. All r~prndudum n~ht' an· 
n:~rvrtJ 
While some students like to get a head start on their schoolwork, that's not the reason why more than 80 Notre Dame freshmen are expected to be in study lounges this week. 
They'll be living in them but only for awhile, 
Because ofoverfilled dorms, about 84 freshmen will temporarily reside in study lounges in Flan­ner, Grace and Sarin halls, according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences. -The Observer/Aug. 2.3, 1986 
Room 400 Grace looks much like any other freshman room. There are pictures of girlfriends, a campus map and a poster of a semi-clad woman posted on the wall. There are at least two stereos, a homemade shelf and a computer set up. 
But something about this room is different from most freshman rooms. Newspapers cover large windows facing the lobby. There's no refrigerator and no sink. 
Room 400 is a study lounge. But it's home to Dave Temeles, Tim Crawford, James Dailey and Steve McLaughlin. 
"The lo~ation is not too great" said Temeles. "On Emil 'night they knew where we were and threw a firecracker under the door. 
"But the room is good sized. And it's great for parties. 
"We get along very well and we do a lot to­gether," said Temeles. "We've all got similar in­terests too. Most of them are over at Saint Mary's." 
Temeles, like Crawford, Dailey and McLaughlin, has lived in Room 400 for almost two weeks now. He is waiting for Student Residences to find him a permanent room. 
Once it does, he'll move away. Probably to an­other dorm. And most likely without Crawford, Dailey or McLaughlin. 
"We kind pf upset about that" Temeles said. "It's an unfortunate situation. We like each other and the room isn't really too bad. And Grace is a pretty good hall. 
"We would like to get into the dorm life," Temeles said. "But it's kind of hard to get into dorm life when you're in a study lounge." 
They're not alone. About 50 other freshmen are living in study lounges as well. 
Student Residences will begin moving these freshmen into permanent rooms as soon as it gets a list of spaces left open by student "no shows," said Reinebold. If 50 spaces aren't avail­able, then some of the freshmen will have to wait until other students move off campus or leave the University, she said. 
Now, there may or may not be 50 students that didn't show up. If there are, then fantastic. Move the freshmen out so they can begin making friends at their new dorms. 
If there aren't 50 openings, Student Residences should do something more than just waiting for students to transfer or move off campus. 
One idea is for the University to rent part of a luxury apartment complex off campus. It then could offer students the opportunity to live there at the same cost as living in a dorm room. Stu­dents would jump at the opportunity, thereby freeing up on-campus housing for freshmen. 


Fiscally unsound, some would say. Unworkable. 
Ludicrous. 

But not to administrators at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga. Like Notre Dame, Emory couldn't provide enough on-campus housing for its stu­dents this year. So it adopted the luxury-apartment plan, and its housing problem disappeared. 
Of course, one shouldn't expect Notre Dame to rent part of an apartment complex so that fresh­men wouldn't have to live in study lounges. But one would expect Notre Dame to institute a varia­tion on Emory's idea. 
If a shortage of on-campus housing exists, Stu­dent Residences would offer students an incentive to move off campus. The incentive could be a tuition break, a discounted meal plan or hard cash. The incentive would be increased until enough students accepted the offer and moved off campus. 
Obviously, Notre Dame would have to spend some money to institute this plan. That might make it unappealing to some fiscally-minded ad­ministrators. 
But the University was willing to spend millions to improve student life by renovating Lafortune and several dorms. Certainly, the University could spend a little more so freshmen wouldn't have to languish in study lounges. 
But in the meantime, Temeles, like his room­mates and about 50 others, will wait for the day he must pack up and leave his friends behind. 
"I don't think we'll get out of here until October or Christmas," Temeles said. "Maybe they'll give us a Christmas gift and get us out of here." 

NOW HIRING! 
Full & part time 

FREE HAIRCUT-PERM-COLOR 
Women needed for Redken and Paul Mitchell Professional Hair Seminar for demonstration of the latest hairstyles 
This is your opportunity to receive a makeover by the winner ofthe 'Hairdresser ofthe Year' award 
Should be open to change Call 256-2033 for details 
help. allpositions open. Apply within at 

*********************** 
NOBLE ROMAN'S 

HAPPY 20th B-OAV 
16533 Cleveland Road 

BABS! 


A woman of never-ending smiles 
Call and wish her a Happy Birthday 284-4078 
WE LOVE YOU, 


Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 

Find a job 
The Ohserver/[)avid Fisher 

Roger Schmitz, dean of the college of engineering, speaks to senior engineers at a meeting last night. Job possibilities for graduates were discussed by Schmitz, representatives of Career and Placement Services and various employers. 

ounsefine Vofuntee~ Needed!II 
Students needed to staff the information tape service 
"' ~ /
of the university Counceling Center for a two hour time 
block-1 day a week, Monday-Friday, between 4-12pm. 
"' "' / / / 
~ /
If interested, call Mary Raeker or David Seid (239-7336). 'V 
F=======Ciassof '87 ========i Last Chance 
Senior Portrait Sig 

Wed Sept. 10 3 pm-5 pm Dome Office-3rd floor LaFortune 
[ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL SCHOOL TRIP 
Friday, October 3 
Meet with ND alumni and tour 
the medical school. 
Pick up applications in 201 Administration Building. Space limited to 30 pre-med students. 
Applications due September 19. 
Registration tee of $7.00 required. 
STUDENT· ALUMNI PRE-PROFESSIONAL RELATIONS SOCIETY GROUP 
Sexual violence against women subject of lecture series at SMC 
By 'MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
"It Happens to Everyone: Sexual Violence against Women, Children and Men," is the topic of programs being offered at Saint Mary's this week and next. 
Pat Rissmeyer, director of residence life and housing at the College said the idea for these programs originated from the Se~ Offense Staff at the Madison Center in South Bend. Rissmeyer said a Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination group was formed consisting ofstudents from Saint Mary's, Indiana University-South Bend, Notre Dame and Bethel College. The group met last spring and this summer, with Saint Mary's developing a com­mittee to initiate a week long se­ries. 
Earlier this semester, each Saint Mary's student received a letter from Rissmeyer co­authored by a Saint Mary's stu­dent who wished to remain anonymous. Last semester the student was raped by a Notre Dame student. 
The letter said, "she met the man in much the same way you meet Notre Dame men-at a gat­hering of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Their first date was typical. He called and asked her to attend a dance sponsored by the University." The letter con­tinued, saying the Saint Mary's student attended the dance and afterwards agreed to go back to the man's room, where, "the man became very aggressive, pinned her down to the bed and raped her." 
The letter was a request from the student because she wants 
'students to give serious thought to their dating behavior and their vulnerability, Rissmeyer said. She said the student wanted to write the letter last semester, after the incident, but Rissmeyer and the committee decided to wait until they had programs for students to discuss their con­cerns about rape. 
Tonight's program is called the "The Dating Game." A student panel from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will discuss their own per­ceptions of what dating is like in the Saint Mary'S'Notre Dame community, focusing on blind dates, SYR's, expectations, and values as well as a discussion with the audience. 
Tomorrow the "Medical and Legal Issues of Sexual Assault" will explain what happens to rape victims from the hospital to the court room. A panel of commu­nity professionals will present medical and legal information about rape, child molestation, incest, and sexual harassment. 

Sunday will continue the series with "Child Sexual Abuse and In­cest." Rissmeyer said this will es­pecially pertain to those students in teaching, nursing, social work and psychology majors and help them recognize signs in children who have been victimized. 
"Tell Someone" is next Mon­day's program which deals with harassment on thejob and in the classroom. A videotaoe and dis­cussion of different situations will help students know what rights they have. 
"To conclude the week in a very positive and prayerful way," the last program next Tuesday is the 'Non-Violence Approach'," Rissmeyer said. 
Rissmeyer said a student inter­ested in attending all the workshops is eligible to receive a program certificate. It will in­dicate that the student has received a basic introduction to the issues of sexual violence. It will be signed by. the SOS of Madison Center and the Dean of Student Affairs, she said. 
All programs begin at 6:45 
p.m.  in  Stapleton  Lounge  of  
LeMans  Hall  and  are  free  of  
charge.  

American educator kidnapped by Islamic Jihad group in Beirut 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -An Ameri­can who runs a private school in Beirut was kidnapped by two armed men while on his way to play golf yesterday, and a caller claimed responsibility in the name of the Shiite Moslem group Islamic Jihad. 
It was the first kidnapping of an American in Lebanon in 15 months. 
The U.S. embassy identified the victim as Frank Herbert Reed, 53, of Malden, Mass., director of the Lebanese International School in Moslem west Beirut. 
A spate of politically motivated kidnappings in west Beirut in 1985 prompted most Americans and other Westerners to leave the city. 
A school associate said Reed has lived in Lebanon about eight years and had converted to Islam before marrying Sahmiya Dalati, a Syrian. The associate, who in­sisted on anonymity. said the couple have a five-year old son. Tareq. 
Islamic Jihad, which espouses the fundamentalist teachings of Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, has said it holds at least three other American hostages. 
U.S. embassy spokesman Christopher English said the em­bassy "does not have many details about it (the kidnapping) now." 
At the State Department in Washington, spokesman Ber­nard Kalb said, "We call on those who may be holding Mr. Reed as well as the other foreign hostages in Lebanon to release their captives immediately. We remind them further that we hold them responsible for the well­being of their captives." 
Police quoted family friends as saying Reed was kidnapped at 
I I: 15 a.m. near the ruins of a supermarket in west Beirut's Bir Hassan district while driving from his west Beirut home to play golf at the city's outskirts. 
Gunmen in a dark blue Volvo intercepted Reed's car a few hundred yards from the headquarters of Syrian intelli­gence officers supervising a se­curity plan for west Beirut, police said. 

A New Approach 
Represent your hall on the OCN, the new campus network designed to gather student opinion on issues which affect the community. 
For consideration, please submit your name, hall and phone number to: 
Frank Malone OCN manager The Observer 3rd Floor LaFortune 239-5303 
DEADLINE: Fri. Sept. 12 
U¥¥M®®GM¥¥W00¥4¥¥¥MM®¥®¥U 

An anonymous caller claiming to speak for Islamic Jihad, which means Islamic Holy War, claimed in a call to a Western news agency that Reed was a CIA spy and that "documents convicting him" were found on him. 
An editor at the news agency said the call was in Lebanese­accented Arabic and that the cal­ler hung up after reading a state­ment. The Christian-controlled Voice of Lebanon radio said the man promised to distribute Reed's photograph soon. 
Islamic Jihad has cautioned repeatedly that any statement purporting to come from it with­out a hostage photograph would be false. 
Other American hostages held by Islamic Jihad are Terry Ander­son, 38, of Lorain, Ohio, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press; David Jacobsen, 55, of Huntington Beach, Calif., director of the American University Hospital; and Thomas Sutherland, 55, of Fort Collins, Colo., acting dean ofthe university's agriculture fac­ulty. 
Correction 
The Army ROTC students pictured on page 3 of yester­day's Observer were incor­rectly identified. They are members of the ROTC drill team. 
The front-page story on the Student Senate meeting in yesterday's Observer misiden­tified the president of Rally Against Starvation. The pres­ident is not Tim Griffy. Also, the rugby club volunteered to secure the side doors and was cited for using alcohol at the Rally Against Starvation con­cert. 
j
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
I SOCIETY~ 


Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 4 The Observer 
Attempt on life causes crackdown in Chile 
Associated Press 
a military coup 13 years ago Thursday, scheduled the 

SANTIAGO, Chile -An editor of demonstration to support his an opposition magazine banned candidacy for another eight under the new state of siege was years in office, starting in 1989. killed after armed men who iden­tified themselves as police took Earlier, the 70-year-old army him from his home, the jour­commander sat in uniform with nalist's relatives said yesterday. members of his government and 
Police, however, denied they the diplomatic corps at a funeral had arrested Jose Carrasco, Mass for the five police and army whose body was found Monday escorts killed in the ambush out­night outside a suburban San­side Santiago. Officials have tiago cemetery. He had been blamed leftist guerrillas for the shot in the head. attack. 
The authorities arrested dissi­The U.S. charge d'affaires, dents and raided leftist stron­George Jones, attended the gholds after a Sunday night as­Roman Catholic Mass. Govern­The free scoop 
Seniors celebrate "Welcome Lou Week" with an

sassination attempt against ment officials said a wide drag­ice cream social yesterday evening on the
President Augusto Pinochet. net for the I 2 to 15 would-be Pinochet escaped with only an in­assassins had turned up no jury to one hand, but five of his suspects. bodyguards were killed. His gov­However, the government an­
President asks for shuttle money
ernment declared a state of nounced it was holding 16 leftist siege. leaders of political parties, uni­Associated Press and space suits, will bring the ting together the space station, 
Gen. Pinochet attended the versity student associations, total to $2.8 billion. which will serve as a permanent bodyguards' funeral yesterday slum organizations and human WASHINGTON President Fletcher told reporters last manned facility in space for con­before heading to a rally staged rights groups. Reagan formally asked Congress week that the country is going to ducting scientific, technological in his honor. yesterday for money to restore be short of launch capacity by and commercial activities. Pres­
Police reported they were hold­The mosi prominent among the space shuttle fleet to four 1992 and "we really ought to ident Reagan has designated the ing 16 opposition activists and the prisoners was Pascual Bar­ships, even as the man he picked have more than four" shuttles. station as the next major space three French priests picked up raza, the Communist former to rehabilitate NASA declared "a Responding yesterday to a project. under a nationwide state ofsiege minister of public works in the fifth orbiter is absolutely impera­question from The Associated "By 1992, two years before the decreed after Sunday's guerrilla elected government of President tive." Press, Fletcher explained that, station is to be operational, we ambush on Gen. Pinochet's Salvador Allende ousted by NASA administrator James "Given the extraordinary will need a substantial number motorcade. Pinochet. Fletcher said a start on the fifth demand for shuttle space to of flights to assemble the station 
Two escort cars destroyed in Relatives ofCarrasco, a former ship "will have tobe made in the launch scientific, military and and put it into operation," the rocket and grenade attack political exile who worked for the next year or two." commercial cargo, as well as the Fletcher said. were put on display outside the leftist news magazine Analisis, Reagan's approval of a re­demands of the space station presidential palace along San­said he was taken from his home placement for the space shuttle launch timetable, we believe a A brief White House statement tiago's main boulevard, site of early Monday by gunmen claim­Challenger was announced in fifth orbiter is absolutely impera­said the funds requested yester­the pro-Pinochet rally. ing to be police. August, and the request for $272 tive." day also would be used to imple­
Hundreds of uniformed and Analisis and five other opposi­million to begin the first phase He said the effort to lower ment the Rogers commission plainclothed policemen tion magazines were shut down of construction had been ex­federal deficits rules out asking report which recommended searched buildings in the down­by decree Monday for the dura­pected. for yet another ship now but "a changes in the shuttle program town area and halted traffic two tion of the renewable 90-day The new ship, expected to be start will have to be made in the to avert another disaster like the hours before the rally was to siege. Another decree banned ready to fly in 1991, will cost next year or two." one that destroyed the Chal­start. dispatches from Chile by the about $2 billion. Other replace­Fletcher reiterated that five lenger and killed its crew of 
Pinochet, who seized power in Reuters news agency. ment costs, such as spare parts shuttles will be essential for put-seven last Jan. 28. 
Reagan expresses concern over Soviet detention of Danlloff 
Associated Press Speakes refused to discuss what great shadow over Soviet good federal grand jury indicted Gen­Associated Press board of direc­further steps the administration faith, a matter which must be of nadiy Zakharov, a Soviet tors, made up of newspaper pub­
WASHINGTON -The Soviets' is considering, except to say great concern to us. It's a kind physicist employed by the United lishers and executives of the detention of American journalist "there are some." of moral Chernobyl, which risks Nations, on charges he ·tried to world's largest news-gathering Nicholas Daniloff "is a matter of Reagan and Secretary of State poisoning the whole field ofEast­buy U.S. military secrets for the organization, canceled a sched­increasing concern" to President George Shultz briefed congres­West relations. It is very impor­Soviet Union. uled visit to the Soviet Union later Reagan as diplomatic efforts to sional leaders on the case but tant that the Soviet Union should The administration has sug­this month, calling Daniloff's ar­win his release continue with no pledged these lawmakers not to take action to prevent that hap­gested that Daniloff, the Moscow rest unjustified and demanding apparent success, the White divulge what retaliatory moves pening." correspondent for U.S. News & his immediate release. House said yesterday. the administration is consider­Administration sources, World Report, was framed by So­Expressing regret at the loss 
A day after Reagan publicly ing. speaking on condition they not viet secret police in a scheme to of an opportunity to strengthen pronounced Daniloff innocent of British Foreign Secretary Geof­be identified, have said the exchange him for Zakharov, who understanding of the Soviet the espionage charges lodged frey Howe, talking to reporters United States may begin expell­was arrested in a New York sub­Union, the board said, "We can against him and warned Moscow at Dulles International Airport in ing Soviets attached to the way station on Aug. 23. Daniloff take no other action in view of that holding hiTD prisoner threat­suburban Virginia as he United Nations a few at a time was arrested in Moscow one the imprisonment of a journalis­ens U.S.-Soviet relations, prepared for a flight home, said until Daniloff is freed. week later. tic colleague by the Soviet gov­presidential spokesman Larry the Daniloff case" ... casts a very In New York, meanwhile, a In an independent action, The ernment." 
Fieldhouse Mall. The week's activities continue today with a night at Chi-Chi's. 
Suit 
continuedfrompage 1 
objects to the use of the words "Fighting Irish" in the Associa­tion's name because "Fightin' Irish" is a federally-registered trademark. 
Juliano said that he has con­sulted with his lawyer over the possibility of countersuing. Were 
he to sue the University, Juliano said that his suit would be for unfair dismissal and for restraint of trade. He said that the Univer­sity pressured him into resigning his job after it learned of his founding the Subway Alumni As­sociation. 
Juliano also said that he has evidence of wrongdoing con­cerning student-athletes and has made it known to University of­ficials that he would be willing to expose these abuses if he is forced to abandon the Subway Alumni Association because of the University's lawsuit. 
f 
Faccenda denied the validity of these claims, viewing them as anI attempt by Juliano to intimidate 
L 
the University. 
·~
_ 

JAMAICA 



Mandatory meeting for all seniors who are: 
1. 
Signed up for and plan on offending ."e trip to Jamaica 

2. 
Signed up for but want to cancel their reservations to Jamaica 

3. 
Not signed up but would like to go to Jamaica 



-Wed., Sept.10 6:00-7:00P.M. in Washington Hall 
-Room signups and remaining balances due Sept. 11 
*Seniors not in aHendance will forfeit their spots on the trip 
__________;_;__:....____________._.__.. 
Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 5
The Observer 
3 South African blacks hung by government 

...., 
I 
~ 
~ 
1 
tory, the beach photo session was forced Indoors 
1 by rain. 1 
1 
Passenger from hijacked jet recalls attempt to calm panicked terrorists 
Associated Press that led to shooting aboard the She said only one of the four jumbo jet last Friday. Nineteen gunmen seemed to understand 
WIESBADEN, West Germany -people died in the shooting, and English. Passengers tried to calm the at least 120 were injured. The "When the lights began to dim, hUackers of a Pan Am jumbo jet four hUackers are in custody. they (the hUackers) panicked be­in Pakistan when the lights failed, Asked to describe the scene cause they didn't know what but the pirates panicked and when the hUackers began firing would happen. started shooting because they at random inside the plane "They asked the passengers could not understand English, an Friday, Miss Hussain said: what had happened, and the pas­American survivor said yester­"When the lights went out. sengers said the power was bad. day. people tried to tell them (the But as these hUackers couldn't 
Nadya Hussain, 16, choked hUackers) the power was off, but understand English, except for back tears as she told reporters they couldn't understand English one, they panicked anyway, and in Wiesbaden about the horror ... and they started shooting." they asked for a radio," she said. 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa Three black insurgents, includ­ing a 19-year-old convicted in a bombing that killed five whites, were hanged yesterday after refusing to seek clemency. 
U.S. civil rights leader Caretta Scott King, meanwhile, canceled a meeting with President P. W. Botha at the last minute. She an­nounced her decision a day after leading anti-apartheid activists said they would not see her if she met with Botha. 
The execution of the rebels, members of the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla group, caused little public out­cry. Previous executions of ANC members prompted worldwide condemnation and appeals for clemency. 
The three Sibusiso Andrew Zondo, Simho Bridget Xulu and Clarence Lucky Payi were hanged at Pretoria Central Prison at 7 a.m., said Supreme Court Registrar Martin van der Wes­thuizen. 
He said three other convicted 
murderers also were executed. 
South Africa executes about I00 
people a year, most of them con­
victed murderers. 
The Sowetan, a Johannesburg newspaper for black readers, quoted relatives and defense at­torneys as saying the con­denmed men did not want a last­minute appeal to delay the executions. 
They were in good spirits and singing freedom songs on the eve of their executions, the 

lawyers were quoted as saying. 
"They told us not to worry be­
cause they were dying for their 
own people," the Sowetan 
quoted one relative as saying. 
Zondo's lawyer, Bheki Shezi, 
said his client's final message 
was that "the revolutionary loves 
his life but knows that life is not 
the end itself." Zondo was 19. 
About 40 people turned out for 
a memorial service for the three in a Johannesburg chapel. The Rev. Sol Jacobs said Zondo, Xulu and Payi "have given their lives in the fight for freedom in our land. They died in the belief that · they were working for the libera­
tion of their neighbor." 
Zondo was convicted in April 
in the Dec. 23 bombing at a 
shopping center south of Dur­
ban. Two women and three chil­
dren were killed and 48 others 
wounded. 
Zondo did not testify in his tri­
al. The trial judge noted that 
Zondo had acknowledged to a • 
magistrate that he planted the 
bomb but intended only to 
wound people. 
Xulu and Payi were convicted 
last February in the May 1984 as­
sassination of a former student 
leader who had turned against 
the African National Congress. 
Their ages were not available. 
The United Democratic Front. 
the country's largest anti­
apartheid coalition, said Monday 
that "going on with the hangings 
can only be seen as immoral and 
unjust. There is nothing in this 
act that promotes reconcilia­
tion." 
NEED $ FOR FALL BREAK? 

NEED S TO GO H<J4E FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
BETTER THAN EVER! 

NOW HIRING A FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS • • • 
Positions Available are: 
Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants 

Casual Employment Catering Positions 


Cal I the Central Administration of University Food Services at 239-7859 
to apply. 


"ie~~_O_i_n__t____________w~edne~sday~,sept~embe~rw,~t9s6~-pa~ge6 
Blacks may suffer from anti-apartheid policy 
For the past two years, in places as diverse as the pages of the Observer and the halls of Congress and practically everywhere else in between, Americans have been debating overjust what we can do to force the South African government to end its practice of apartheid. Now, it seems we have finally decided on an an­swer: punitive economic sanctions coupled with the threat of total divest­ment ifthings do not change in the future. With the overwhelming vote in the Senate in favor of this policy, even President Reagan will be forced to agree with it. 
Adam Milani 
a closer look 
... 
But what are the consequences of such a policy? Even the people who support it admit that the blacks whom we are sup­posedly trying to help will suffer most because of it. Blacks in South Africa and surrounding African states will lose jobs, homes, and lives. A missionary in Lesotho told NBC News this summer that severe sanctions could result in the loss of an additional 50,000 lives to hunger and malnutrition among the children of miners laid-off from gold and diamond mines. Meanwhile, South African whites will feel few, if any, effects because the government we are attacking has already gone on the defensive and stockpiled both economic and military resources. 
If this is the case, and most agree it is, who then benefits from this policy? The disturbing answer is that the sole bene­ficiary is the American people, specifically the American moral conscience that is always looking for the most easily reached safe harbor. If the situation in South Africa does continue to deteriorate into the civil war that so many predict, we can stand self-righteously apart from 
r r 
r 
Doonesbury 
PlA5TIC 5H££TING. YOU'VE 5&ENIN 7HEMOV/5 GR£.47. 
IA/&LL, IT~ NOTLIKe WHAT

15 7H/5 YOUR FIRST rMAfRAI{} IT'5 PAKrOfJ. J.'5
CXP05lJR£ TO P£R-50, 0101. FORMANC/3 ART, ANYTHING 
f 
CONCEPT. MIKe? I5HOUW 
ANOONMTv. !T'5MUCH aJHAT's 
MORe PART!-7HAF 
I 

I<NOIAJ2 I 
I 
the Pretoria government and say, "Well, 
we tried to punish them and show them 
the right way, but they just wouldn't lis­
ten," or, if we hilve totally divested, "Hey, 
it's not our fault. They didn't have our 
support. We pulled completely out of 
there ages· ago." 
Self-righteousness after the fact of a civil war, however, will quite obviously not solve today's problems in South Africa. The time has come for us to realize that, politically, the U.S. has very little power in South Africa, and that the apar­theid situation cannot be paralleled with the U.S. civil rights movement. We cannot force the Pretoria government to institute changes in apartheid because unlike the 
U.S. of the 1950's and 60's, there is no significant governmental and popular support for change in South Africa. P. W. Botha does not have a Bobby Kennedy willing to call out the national guard to defend the rights of blacks against bigoted whites. Conversely, he is using the police to put down continued unrest among blacl\s whom he says have no rights. Even then he is criticized by mem­bers of his own party for being too soft on them. 
Our generation has been told that we learned in Vietnam that even the use of military might is not necessarily success­ful in forcing our values on people who are willing to go to the point of self destruction rather than accept them. Per­haps, then, we should study the values of the interested parties in South Africa as well as our own, finding the ones we share in the hope that we can use them to work toward something we have his­toriclly resisted, a compromise that will satisfy all and act as an alternative to bloodshed. 
First, we must identify the interested parties. The two most obvious and pow­erful ones are the African National Congress and the Pretoria government. With the ANC, the U.S. shares a profound longing to end apartheid. With the South 


The Observer 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1ver­s1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College II does not necessar.ty reflect the potoc•es of the adm,n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tu1ton The news IS reported as ctccurately and oblt!Ct,vely as posSible Uns1gned ed1tonats represent the opm10f' of a ma1or~ty of the Ed1tor~at Board Commentar~es. letters and the 1ns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of varv1nq Qp1n1ons on campus. through tellers. IS encouraged 
African government we share, good or bad, a belief In capitalism. The two do not have to be mutually exclusive as we are so often led to believe. The U.S. must, whatever the cost, open viable, identifi­able, and public diplomatic relations with the ANC and work with its leaders to find a way to bring the South African govern­ment leaders to the same bargaining table with them, for it is only there that any true "peace" agreement will be reached. At the same time we should con­tinue to use what little economic power we have to work toward total acceptance of the Sullivan principles by South African businesses. At the same time we should invest, yes, invest, more monies from or­ganizations like USAID in the homelands and surrounding black African states so that blacks can begin to help free them­selves from economic dependence on the bigoted whites. 

Our power in South Africa is much more limited than we wish to acknowledge. We must not waste it on empty symbolic ges­tures, such as sanctions and divestment, of a moral superiority our own history does not justify and that serve only to wash our own hands. Instead we must be willing to get our hands dirty and work hard from within the existing structures of the ANC, the South African govern­ment, and other organizations with the prayer that someday the bloodshed will 
end  and  a  just  compromise  will  be  
reached  to  achieve  true  and  lasting  
peace.  

Adam Milani is a junior English major and a regular Viewpoint Columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Hunger coalition seeks further student support 
Dear Editor: 
It's that time again. Today and Thursday, members of Notre Dame's World Hunger Coalition will be in the dining halls signing up students who want to participate in the Wednesday Lunch Fast program. 
Each Wednesday, from September 17 through December I 0, these students will forgo their lunch in the dining halls, and the Notre Dame Food Service will donate $I for each student lunch that is given up. The dining halls very generously sup­port this program, giving more per lunch than the food itself actually costs them. The World Hunger Coalition divides the donations, which total over $7,000 a se­mester, among seven development or­ganizations helping the needy in India, Bangladesh, Chile and Africa. .., 
This program produces good results all around. Less fortunate people receive the food and medicine necessary to live and learn to support themselves through education and agricultural assistance. College students with precious little time or money to give to charity can still donate to those in need. 
The reasons for the Fast go beyond the monetary matters, however. Fasting is also a vehicle to further awareness. The people who claim they get too hungry too fast are missing the point. Let's face it. The empty feeling in the stomach from skipping one meal is nothing compared 
Garry Trudeau 
GOSH, I'M 
lOOKING 
fOR/A/A(?[) 
7VTH/5. 
\ 

to subsisting on one bowl of rice a day, every day. 
More importantly, giving up that weekly hamburger and going hungry for those afternoon hours can get us thinking of how the millions of malnourished people have to live. This ugliness is horribly un­pleasant to contemplate; we'd rather not think about it. The reality remains, none­theless, and we have to face it. 
True, stopping to ponder the existence of people who live in abject poverty doesn't alleviate their suffering. Our awareness of their hunger doesn't feed them. But unless we reach this awareness and acknowledge the presence of their misery we will never be moved to elimi­nate it. 
The World Hunger Coalition would never claim that the ~·ast is the ultimate in social awareness. Missing one lunch a week gives us no idea what starvation is. We know that the dining halls will have pasta waiting for us on Wednesday night, and if we really want to, we'll be able to call Domino's. We can't fathom fasting every day of the week, without knowing when the next meal would come. 
Giving up lunch on Wednesday does, however, present us with the opportunity to begin to put into perspective the bless­ings that we can so easily take for granted, while sharing those blessings with less fortunate people around the world. 
Please join in this activity of awareness and generosity every Wednesday, and thank you for your support. 
l.aurie Konwinski World Hunger Coalition 

, Quote of the day 
"He that can apprehend and con­sider vice with all her baits and seeming pleasures, and yet abstain, and yet prefer that which is truly better, he is the true wayfaring Christian." 
John Milton 
(1608 -1674) 

General Board  
Edttor tn·Chtel  Joe Murphy  .  Busrness Manage'  
Managmg Ed1tor  Kev1n Becker  Controller  
V1ewpomt Ed1tor  Scott Beart'y  Production Manager  
Sports Ed1tor  Denms Comgan  Photography Manager  
Accent Edttor  Mary Jacoby  Advertrsmg Manager  
~al'll Mary·s Edttnr  Marg1e Kersten  Systems Manager  
News Ed1tor  Tr~pp B<~ltz  Graphrc Arts Manager  
News Edrtor  Mark Pankowski  OCN Manager  

Founded November 3, 1966 
Er~c Scheuermann Alex VonderHaar Chr~s Bowler James Carroll Anne M.Culhgan 
Shaw_n Sexton Mark Weimholt Francis X. Malone 


-----~ ­
Accent 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing 
FEATURES 
forihe Obsener ___ 
Thursday at 7 p.m. 
in the Observer office. 
Contact Mary Jacoby at the Observer office (239-5313) for more information. 
P.A.CJMJNO 
features writer 
You have not seen "The Fly" yet'? What arc you waiting for'? 
Seriously though, "The Fly" is the newest creation of horror film director David Cronenberg ("The Dead Zone," "Scanners") who fell in love with the idea of an up­dated remake of the classic 1958 version of 'The f''ly" starring Vin­cent Price. 
MoviesN!: 
TheFiy ***' 
Cronenberg·s film contains aspects of the original film as well as new innovative concepts which make this "fly" one of 
Twentieth  Century  rox's  
strongest releases of th e  sum­ 
mer.  

The story opens in an art museum as Seth Brundle, played excellently by Jeff Goldblum of "The Big Chill" and "Into the Night" fame, meets an ambitious science reporter named Veronica, Geena Davis, star of television's "Sara." 
Veronica. in an attempt to ac­quire a story for her magazine, follows Bnm<lle to his warehouse-apartment. Brunelle has been experimenting with matter tcleportation ami al­though he shows Veronica his hardware at work, he refuses to allow her to print a story. As the old saying goes, one thing leads to another. and Brundle and Veronica eventually fall in love and move the action to the bedroom. 
Meanwhile, Veronica's old lover and present boss, Stathis Borans, portrayed by John Getz from "Magruder and Loud," con­fronts Veronica during a fit of childish jealousy in front of Brunelle's apartment. Brundle witnesses the argument and in his own petty envy and having drunk just a bit too much cham­pagne, attempts to teleport him­self. A fly just happens to buzz its way into the telepod with him and the resulting transmission of man and fly changes Brundle's life forever. 
In the original "Fly," the unfor­tunate transportee exited the second telepod with an arm and the head of a fly. In this version the damage is much deeper; Brundle's genetic pattern is fused with that of the fly. Once this fusion is completed, he begins a bizarre disease-like transformation which, under­standably, necessitates some very interesting changes in life­style. 
JeffGoldblum and Geena Davis are the stars of the horror-thriller "The Fly. " 
Putting the story aside and those little "Gremlins," was re­turning to acting performances, sponsible for Brundle's transfor· one has to admire Goldblum's mations and his creations will portrayal ofa genius on the brink definitely astound. of disaster. He has shown his considerable talent in some fine 
There are some bad points,films in the past and his work 
too. A few of the openning
here can only enhance his scenes seen1 unearned andcareer. And well it should. 
some of the time transitions areBnmdlc is a forceful yet soft­jumpy, but these little faults inspoken man who Goldblum is no way detract from the en­able to make more likable with joyability of the film.
each passing minute, before and after the fateful experiment. In particular, Goldblum shows On the whole, "The Fly" is one amazing versatility as he must of the best films of the summer flit between the psychological and does not deserve to be and physical actions of both a shooed away like the insect human and an insect with which is responsible for its regularity. He has done a terrific name. 

job with a difficult character and ,.....-----------------------------------------, 

· deserves commendation. 
Geena Davis is not bad, either. 
Clearly, she must yield to 
Goldblum's acting ability, 
however, she makes Veronica's 
role a believable one. It is diffi­
cult to visualize a person's reac­
tion to the circumstances which 
befall Brundle. Considering both 
the scientific and love interests 
of her character, Davis is able to 
bring potentially inconceivable 
emotions to stirring life. 
The true wonder of this film, 
though, lies in its use of some 
amazing special effects to en­
hance the matter transmission 
idea into something which can­
not be termed science-fiction. 
Again and again the film's prem­
ise and corresponding events in­
ject an air of possibility into the 
mind of the viewer which is 
impossible to overlook. The ef­
fects themselves are at times 
both gruesome and remarkable. 
Chris Walas, the man behind 

Murphy award bestowed on two 
CATHY STACEY 
features writer 
"They are very sensitive to their fellow students, non-judgemental, and, on the whole, genuinely nice people," says Dr. Claudia !\selman, Foreign Studies Department, of Lisa Herb and Michael Jones, this year's recipients of the Mic­helle Murphy Award. 
Given annually to a stu­dent participant in the Angers, France foreign 
studies  program,  this  
honorary  award  seeks  to  
preserve  the  memory  of  

Michelle Murphy, a mem· 
Michelle Murphy 
special and important to her and her boundless genefosity. Her great desire to know God and spread his love also made her a deep source of strength to her friends. 

example of the type of per­son the award seeks to honor. Her fellow students also hoped to inspire others to follow her exam­ple, and, by recognizing 
those who have, to do honor to her name. 
Receiving the certificate of award was as much a surprise as an honor for Jones. Both he and Herb will have their names engraved one the plaque together because they each received a high number of votes from their class­mates. Knowing that his friends respect and admire him was, for Jones, the most important and exciting part of 
ber of the class of 19.84. On January I I, 1983, on their return to Notre Dame from Christmas break, Mic­helle and her sister, Rita, died in a tragic auto acci­dent just one short year after her return from study­ing in France. 
For her classmates, par­ticularly those who were with her in Angers, Murphy's untimely death was a painful loss of an ex­tremely caring and beauti­ful person. She was ad­mired for her unique talent 
for making others know that they were each very 
These very much appre­ciated traits became the basis for the award that her fellow students from Angers established along with their director, Father Eugene Gorski. Each year, at the end of their time to­gether in France, students are asked to individually nominate the person who they feel best represents the ideals that Michelle stood for -being a loving person, a faithful Chris· tian, and a devoted friend. 
Murphy was described as humble in her faith and generous in her love, an 

being honored with the award. 
Although most of the stu­dents who participate in the nomination never met Murphy, they believe that the award given in her name has had beneficial results for them. By reflecting on their choice for the best represen­tative, they had to think about how much they owe to one another. 
They have recognized and been thankful for the qualities that make their group special. And finally, they have striven to express the samejoyful dis­position and deep faith that made Murphy the very special person that she was. 


Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 8
11le Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's tennis team earned an impressive 8-I victory over Valparaiso in recent action. Jennifer Block, Kate McDevitt. Shawn Boyd, Charlene Schako and Kim Drahota won straight-set singles matches for the Belles, while Block­McDevitt, Sandy Hickey-Boyd and Buffy Heinz-Drahota earned doubles wins in straight sets. Saint Mary's meets Anderson College in its next match. · The Observer 
A pep rally to usher in the I986 Notre Dame football season and Head Coach Lou Holtz is scheduled for Friday at 7 p.m. outside Gate 9 of the ACC. · The Observer 
Tryouts for the 1986-87 Men's Volleyball Club are scheduled tonight at 7 in the ACC Pit. Further information may be ob­tained by contacting John Sullivan at 232-3629. · The Ob­server 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in being a member of either the indoor or outdoor men's varsity track and field teams for Spring Semester 1987 today at 4 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Further information may be obtained by contacting Pat Flynn or Joe Piane at 239-6135. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club will hold daily group rides at 3:45 p.m., with short meetings to precede behind the Administration Building. Rides will vary in length, and tours and races are planned for beginners and experienced riders. The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club begins its novice program today at 4 p.m. in the ACC Boxing Room. Anyone interested in learning boxing techniques and training is invited to attend, and veteran boxers are welcome as well. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be holding a general meeting for all varsity rowers tonight at 7 in room I 23 Nieuwland. All men and women interested in rowing novice are to meet at the main circle tomorrow at 4:30p.m. or Friday at 4:30p.m. prepared to run. Questions may be addressed to Patricia Warth at 283-3023. -The Observer 
An organizational meeting for anyone interested in playing on the Notre Dame women's softball team has been scheduled for today in Farley's Middleroom at 8 p.m. ·The Observer 
The Notre Dame Judo Club holds practice tonight from 8-1 0 in room 2 19 Rockne. Beginners should wear loose cloth­ing with long sleeves and any newcomers are welcome. Fur­ther information may be obtained by contacting Rob Detzner at 232-6917 or Sara Harty at 3427. · The Observer 
A general meeting for all members and prospective mem­bers of the NOOMC Sailing Club takes place at 6:30 tonight at the Boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Members are to bring their dues, and the topic of discussion will be the upcoming home regatta. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in joining the Windsurfing Club is asked to attend a meeting in Walsh Hall's South Lounge tonight at 
7. Further information may be obtained by contacting Carter Thomas at I 605. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame water polo team has scheduled practice this week at 4:30 p.m. at St. Joe's Lake. Practice will be cancelled in the event of rain. Further information may be obtained by contacting Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
A Student Athletic Council picnic is scheduled for today from 6-7 p.m. outside Angela Athletic Facility for all Saint Mary's varsity athletes and prospective varsity athletes. -The Observer 
The women's soccer game between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, originally scheduled for Saturday, has been res­cheduled for Friday at 4 p.m. on the field north of Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Racquetball Club has slated a short or­ganizational meeting to elect officers Tuesday, Sept. 16, at 
8:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
HS drug tests a hot issue 
Associated Press 
Proposed legislation to require drug and alcohol testing in In­diana high schools drew mixed reactions from school adminis­trators on Tuesday, some ques­tioning the fairness, enfor­ceability and cost of such a plan. 
Two state representatives said Monday they would introduce a bill in the 1987 General Assem­bly that would mandate the In­diana High School Athletic Asso­ciation to implement the testing program. IHSM Commissioner Gene Cato opposed the plan. 
Don Noblitt. the principal at Jasper and chairman of the IH­SM executive committee, said yesterday he tended to agree with Cato's opposition to the pro­posal. 
"My first reaction would be against it" he said. "It wouldn't be fairjust to have it for athletes. If you're going to test (for drugs). you might have to do it for all extracurricular activities, not just athletics." 
He said penalties at individual schools are often more severe than the 30-day suspension pro­posed by the legislators. 
"At Jasper High School and other area schools, the penalty is much more severe, including suspension from school for a se­mester," Noblitt said. 
Joan Finch, principal at Evansville Central, said she believes the program would create an initial scare in student athletes who use drugs, but ul­timately the program would 
create  "a  more  sophisticated  
user."  
She  said  education  at  a  

younger age is the way to cure the drug problem. 
John Reinitz, athletic director at Evansville Mater Dei. said in principle, the plan is good. But he believes it would be hard to enforce. 

/h,· fJh.\l'rtt·r· '-ctlft (I,I!Hc. c•tlttc. lctt,tltd ••II lilt llttrd ll•utf cd l.tlctrfllllt 
'\iudt:lll ( l"fllc:r Jll c.·pl' 1. l.t,,tflt d .uh crt ''11\f.! Ire 1111 '' .1 111 lllll II 1 p 111 \1ctl\tl.t\ 
through I ndJ\ I ht• I Jl,,,.,., t'l '.Hill \1.tn 'c •tth c. J,,, .tit d elf\ IIi'. 1htrd fl, tc •r ,,f 
ll.t)!.~Jr ( ulk).:.c.: ( l"llJt·r .H c.t·pt.., c.l.t,.. lfu d ... lrctlll I.! ~~~I' 111 11111tl ~ p 111 \l"n 
d.t\ tlltlll)!.h I nd.t\ ftc..Hiflllt l••t nt '' d,t\ , f.l .. 'lflt ,1 .. 1-. ~I' Ill \II~ f.t,..,lflnf, 
lllll't he. prcp.ud t 11 lu r 111 pt r" •II• •r "' lit,& II t IJ.trgc. I' 111, t 111 ... pt r '"c. l h.lf.h
Classifieds 
Icr.., c.·r c.l.1\ 

House for rent. One mile north of TV RENTALS LOW SEMESTER I NEED MICH GA'S.272-6306 Need 4 Michigan GA's. Call Greg at ATTENTION ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. campus. $125otn01>erson. 3 bdrms. RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 1850. THE OBSERVER OFFICE IN HAGGAR
NOTICES 
Call 674-6595 after 5 p.m. FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE. HALL IS NOW OPEN FROM 12:30 TO 255·1343 AFTER 5:30. TRADE 2 AF c S lor 2 Mlch Call Peg 3 P.M. DAILY. BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par· CONCERT GUITAR. NEVER USED. 287 9341 
BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­
ents on football special weekends. $300. 1971 CALIF. VOLVO. RUNS IN DIRE NEED OF 1 PENN ST. GA 

partment needs one student reviewer 
Call 1·219-291-7153. GREAT $500. CALL 272-5693. TICKET AND 1 PURDUE TICKET. Mom and Dad want 2 Mich. GA's. lor the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. Need big S! Selling 2 Michigan GA's
CASH OFFERED. CALL JIM AT 1729. They're willing to shell out big time Must be 21 or older. Application and and 1 student ticket. Best offer until
FOR SO. BEND'S LOWEST bucks. Call Brubaker -283·1122. 
writing samples due Friday, Sept. 12 Friday 8pm. Call Jason at x3024.
WATERBED PRICES VISIT CHEEPER SSSI need MICH TIX G.A. OR STU­

by 5 p.m. on the features department 
SLEEPER WATERBEDS ON THE COR­DENT. CALL TOM 239-5954 desk. Contact Mary Jacoby lor more STUDENTS!!-Purchase your class
NER OF MAIN & MCKINLEY IN MIS· Info. books at PANDORA'S and SAVE$$!!
WANTED 
I' 

HAWAKA. COMPLETE WATERBEDS NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN GAME. STARTING AT $99.95. OUR PHONE [ CALL TONY 1392. PERSONALS 
New-1.1sed books, BOUGHT & SOLD. 3 TYPtNGWORDPROCESSING. Day Service on textbook orders. PAN· 
Women's group at Sacred Heart needs IS 256.0462. WELCOME BACK! GO 

CALL DOLORES 277-8131. DORA'S BOOKS, 937 So. Bend Ave.
babysltters on Notre Dame Campus IRISH! DESPERATE ALUMS NEED MIC· every Wed. 9:15-11:45. Pays $7 per HIGAN TIX. WILL PAY BIG S ANOOR PARENTS WILL DIVORCE ME Ill don't ph. 233-2342. 

meeting. If Interested call Valerie 233· RECENT GRAD MOVING TO L.A. TRADE PENN STATE TIX. CALL (201) come up with 2 Michigan GA's. Call TYPING AVAILABLE Jell at x1384. BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­
6148. NEED TO SELL CAR '68 NOVA 1¥''75 245-5923, LEAVE MESSAGE. 287-4082 partment needs one student Mvlewer
ENGINE, GREAT FOR INDIANA STUDENTS: RESTAURANT WORK, WINTERS, $400 OR BEST OFFER, WILL TRADE FOUR NO-PITT TIX FOR 

lor the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS! OFF­Must be 21 or older. Application and TYPING, TERM PAPERS, ANYTHING. CAMPUS STUDENTS! OFF-CAMPUS writing samples due Friday, Sept. 12 
ALL POSITIONS, FULL TIME, PART CALL TOM OR BILL 232-4352. 2·4 NO-MICH. TIX. OR WILL BUY 2·4 
TIME, FLEXIBLE SCHED. SEEKING NO-MICH. TIX. CALL (301) 256-2845. QUALITY PEOPLE FOR A QUALITY '74 MONTE CARLO FOR SALE CALL

CALL 232.0166 EVENINGS. STUDENTS! Want to learn from the by 5 p.m. on the features department 
experts on how to deal with crime? desk. Contact Mary Jacoby for more Own a Mac and modem? Call NO's The South Bend Pollee will hold a Info.
ATMOSPHERE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 283-2002 WANT TO TRADE 1 MICH GA FOR 
APPLY IN PERSON MON-SUN, 2-4 AT MICH STATE GA'S, BEST OFFER. 

Macintosh BBS. MacCHEG, 283-4714, meeting to answer questions and dis·
STEAK & ALE, U.S. 31 NO. DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS OR RELA­CALL JOHN OR LEAVE MESSAGE: after 6PM and all weekend. Settings: tribute Information on IJow to protect
TIVES THAT LOVE YOU AND ARE 283-1504. 
Greg ·She's at the ice machine. 

&'toN, all bauds. -FREE SOFTWARE!!· yourself from break-Ins. Come to the
TELEPHONE li'll'ERVIEWERS. NO COMING FOR THE MICHIGAN GAME? 
She moves slowly over and fillsNortheast Neighborhood Center at 7SELLING INVOLVED GUARANTEED. I DO NOT ANYMORE AND I NEED TO 

her glass with water. S4 HR., MUST WORK 5 HAS. SAT. & SELL THEIR ROOM AT THE 
YOU NEED THEM. I GOT EM-2 MICH tonight to help take a bite out of bur­
She smiles seductively,5 HRS. SUN. WITH ADDITIONAL HRS. AMERICANA. FRIDAY AND SATUR· GA 'S CALL 277-3952(JZ) glaries. 
and walks past... AVAILABLE. LOCATED DOWNTOWN DAY NIGHT FOR 135.00. CALL SO. BEND. CALL MARKET OPINIOi~ CARRIE AT 1337 FOR DETAILS. need 1 mlch. student ticket will pay HAPPY 21, FISH! We all love you!
LOST/FOUND 
Lou 287-5903 (But our beers tasted Iunny after you MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11 :30RESEARCH, 282-2754. MON-FRI, 5·8 chased your shots!) 12:30 M·F 2ND FLOOR NEW WING 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 Tickets to LAFORTUNE $20-$200 FOR 30 DAYS LOST:GREEN KHAKI JACKET IN 123 P.M. 
TICKETS MICHIGAN Game (Student or GA) Call 1% INTEREST NIEUWLAND HALL ON THURS AUG ED at 288-5599 Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­28 AT 2:00. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE HELP WANTED. DOMINO'S PIZZA. Need GA's lor all home games;Marty MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.
RETURN IT. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
All POSITIONS NEEDED IMMEDI· 1062 Monday • Thursday 5pm-12am. Friday CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE CALL GLEN X1066. 
ATELY. FLEXIBLE NIGHT TIME WANTED 5pm-2am, Saturday 5pm-1am, Sunday BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLlO A Y INN. ·.;., HOURS. MUST BE ABLE TO WORK SSSS$ lather will kill unless I get him 20 GA'S lor SMU. Nov.8. Call x2683 4pm-10pm HELP!!! WEEKENDS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· 4 michigan GA's. save Troy 232·8627 GOLD CARD!! GOLD CARD!! 
LOST AT NAVARRE ST SAT NIGHT TWEEN 4:30 P.M. & 9 P.M. AT 1835 FOR SALE: Michigan State(2) Tlx. Call Avalon Hill gaming opponents SENIOR NIGHT AT CHI·CHI'S! MAR· JEAN JACKET, KEYS, SMC I.D.,$6. SOUTH BEND AVENUE. Joe at 312·664·6140. wanted. I'm also starting a D•nger In­GARITA VILLE SPECIAL FOR SENIOR CAMERA. AND MAKE·UP I NEED MICHIGAN GA TICKETS BIG ternational campaign. Call Chas at GOLD CARD HOLDERS. 7PM-CLOSE. PLEASE CONTACT MICHELLE 284-ROOMMATES WANTED. BUCKS OFFERED CALL: 277-3786 $$$$ ... Willing to pay $$$$ lor 2 Mic­1766. WED. SEPT. 10 ONLY!! SPECIALS ON 4344 male. nice house, good location. 272-higan GA's! HAT b. TIE MARGARITAS WITH GOLD CARD! BE 
THANKS!!! 7017 or 277-2194 I GOT 2 MICH GA'S.BEST OFFER BY Call Carle at 2855 THERE!! 
WED.CALL 232-6153.ASK FOR THE HAT & TIE Wanted: Volunteer Coach lor Gymnas­DUDE. NOBODY SEES THE DUDE. chicks are dumb tic club Team. Call Mall, 3311 DESPERATE lor 2 Purdue GAs CALL HAT & TIE But not dumb enough to miss a 
NEED MICH. G.A. OR STUD TICKET. 4354 chance to wish Wild Bill Irvin a happy CALL D.Z AT 1441 HAT & TIE IS COMING 22nd birthday! Stop by 914 Grace and One Michigan Ticket G.A. lor sale! make Bill feel good allover! LOU WANTS YOU!!!to sell me Mlc· Best offer by noon friday. x4016 HOWARD HALL'S ANNUAL HAT & TIE hlgan tickets at your price. PARTY IS HERE RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND SEPT. 
'"'''-~~~,.~~~~~,J I 
FOR SALE 

• 
neighborhood utilities paid 288-Will pay big S and give little sister. HELP! I need 2 GA's lor Michigan. FRIDAY, SEPT. 12 12 AND BACK SEPT. 14 CALL JAY 095!'>255-3684 10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 Call Joe at 3588. PLEASE call 283-3659 (Ron) BUSES LEAVING FROM MAIN CIRCLE '1911 
•
•
~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 9 
Bradley put on probation 
Associated Press Athletic Association imposed a 
ST. LOUIS-The Missouri Valley similar penalty against the Conference has placed Bradley Peoria, Ill., school. The NCAA University on probation for two also barred Bradley's basketball years for recruiting violations in team from the NCAA tournament the school's basketball program, and other postseason tourna­
Commissioner James Haney ments, and its coaches from off­said Tuesday. campus recruiting. for the com­In July, the National Collegiate ing season. 
Want to write sports? Does your name appear below? 
0c:org1: T,....u. l'alrlck COIIIello. Jim carruL OCnnl• O'Krlen. 1\rl•l) fcrr)·. Mark .,onllc. '~Art Parker. llk.hard Dornan. Anr)· 'I<Aulllle, William Onn..-rt. lien Hochncr, Huh llarig. 'largo 'taclk."<.o, ~lela Homo. .,k.hacl Ka'llc. .,ark P. !ij·rnc, llinkl 'lcCarth). Ill.'\in 'l<fnr· 
nYtk. Ja) Hlnlkcr. Thcn....a Kelt). Tl"d Sh\'t."him. Stt.'\·c.· "'tt."Qargt."t'. t\•t"• 1..1fk_•ur. Jere: rt_"(nh. 
!'lallor) Anne Chl·rl}. Sc.;on llohcn. 1\arcn Th<Jtnp,.mt Rcja Kk.hlcr, lla\ld Oalll\·an. llo•nni• tanh•ell, "-">. 5hu)·kxk. .kYnn l!.'hllllekl "'auR.-.:n Dn·lln. '!all O'llonncl. Aldn Sll\ 1<11. Cl'lllg tton-.lh. r.d YC\'oli. Tim clark, llll\'kl Holland, John Farlc). Christopher l.cupold, l'lllrlckllren....,, Paul l'llsl01e. r.r1c xhlela. 1\errlc Wagner. Jim Carrig. l'lk.k Capece. John 
J. Hllrrll, 1\ell)· T.,...nshcn< •. llrlan O'Clillra. .,oil)· !'lahone)'. ll<~>hlc OclsL Sean 11<·111)·. l.aura Qalus. Clare Hlousmann . .J.no! Shea. SUe O'Connor. Rae Ann Kar!Jar. '<arK) Carnj>h<.-11. 
If you signed up to write sports at Activities Night or are Interested In writing. there will be a short meeting today night at 8 In the Observer ornce. Please try to make It so we can get you In on aU the action or Notre Dame sports. 
The Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore and 
Our Sunday Visitor 
Press cordially invite 
you to attend a 
reception and 
autograph party to 
announce Dr. Ralph 
Mcinerny's new book 
entitled "Miracles: a 
Catholic View". 
Date: Thursday, Septe'"ber 11 
Time: 1 ·3 P.M. 
Place: 2nd Floor Book Dept. 
AP Photo 

Marty Barrett of the Boston Red Sox, shown straight game last night. Details of baseball here getting back to first safely, hit a key action appear below. double to help the Red Sox win their lOth 
Red So·x capture lOth win in a row 
Associated Press ing error by third baseman Floyd Rayford. 
BALTIMORE -Dwight Evans The Orioles added an un­homered twice, and Marty Bar· earned run in the fourth off AI rett's two-run double capped a Nipper, 9-9, when Stefero three-run Boston rally in the walked, and moved around on a seventh inning as the Red Sox wild pitch, a passed ball, and a defeated the Baltimore Orioles 7-sacrifice fly by John Shelby. 5 last night. extending their win­Joe Sambito pitched the final ning streak to I 0. two-thirds of an inning for his 
Evans began the Boston 12th save. seventh with a homer, a drive that finished rookie starter John Habyan. Rich Gedman drew a Dodgers 9, Braves 5 one-out walk off Rich Bordi, 5-3, and moved to second on a field-LOS ANGELES-Bill Madlock hit
r----------------1
1 (\ U.S. DiHygrams ­


1
I•• Singing telegrams by Allen ~1 
I $2.00 off with coupon I 
1 good thru September '86 I I 233·5886 1
L----------------­
JUNIORS Interested in working on 
JUNIOR PARENTS 
WEEKEND 
Please pick up an application m the student activities office (3rd floor-LaFortune) or room 121 Breen­Phillips. All applications must be 
returned to Student Activities Office by 5:00, Friday, September 12. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 

a two-run homer and Alex Trevino and Enos Cabell each contributed two-run singles as the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Atlanta Braves 9-5 last night. 
Rick Honeycutt, I 1-9, got the victory despite allowing five runs, nine hits and four walks over five innings. Alejandro Pena pitched one-hit ball through the final four innings for his first save since April 22, 1983. 
After spotting the Braves a 1-0 lead on the first of Terry Harper's three singles, Los Angeles sent I I men to the plate en route to 
a five-run first knocked out left-Smith, 7-15.  inning hander  that Zane  
Expos 9, Mets 7  

NEW YORK · Andre Dawson's two-run homer with none out in the ninth inning gave the Montreal Expos a 9-7 triumph over the New York Mets last night. 
Tim Raines opened the inning with a single off relief pitcher Jesse Orosco, 6-6, and Dawson followed with his homer to left on the first pitch. Randy Hunt fol­lowed with an RBI single to give the Expos a two-run lead. 
The NL east-leading Mets, who are now 7-7 against the Expos, had taken a 7-6 lead in the bot­tom of the eighth on Darryl Strawberry's 21st homer of the season. 
Tim Burke, 9-7, was the winner in relief. Jeff Reardon pitched the ninth for his 31st save. 
Correction 
The receiver pictured on yesterday's back page was Milt Jackson rather than Reggie Ward. The Observer regrets the error. 
SINGLE WOMENS' RETREAT Mary's Solitude Center Saint Mary's Campus Oct. 3-4, 7am-7pm 
Call: SISTER ARLENE 284·5599 

The Observer Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 10 

Notre Dame fullback Frank Starns follows Mike Szymanski previews the Irish running Hiawatha Francisco in action from last year. backs in his story beginning on page 12. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
nificant contributor today," noted the coach. 
DeBerry scored one goal and fed two assists to her team­mates. 
With only four minutes remain­ing in the match, Joanne Mar­shall tallied the final goal for the Irish, with a dual assist from McGlinn and Christine Sweeney. 
Although the Irish won impres­sively, Lindenfeld knows that there is room for improvement. 
"We need to work on marking better. Our defense has to cover the forwards and we have to score on the penalty corners," she said. 
The Irish will host a series of matches this weekend against Michigan and Southwest Mis­souri. 
Backs 
continued/rom page 12 
Johnson," said Holtz. "He isn't going to dazzle you with his foot speed or overall speed but the guy does the things you don't see from the stands but show up on the scoreboan;l. He's been a very positive influence on the team." 
"I don't know what we'll do, but we will find a way to move the football," said Holtz, "I just hope it is forward. I don't know how consistent we can be running the football, and I don't believe that you can throw it every down either. "We need to be able to control the ball to some extent simply to avoid putting our defense in bad position too many times during a game." 
IRISH ITEMS ...Head Coach Lou Holtz said yesterday that he may have to undergo surgery on the flnger that he sprained in prac­tice last week. Holtz, who was injured while instructing punt­return men. is listed probable for the Michigan game. 
Holtz 
continued/rom page 12 
many top-I 0 teams that some fans think Casey Kasem is in charge somehow. The leader of this imposing group is staring Holtz in the face this week. Mighty Michigan, led by legen­dary Bo Schembechler, comes to town with a quarterback who led the nation in passing efficiency last year. 
He also has a running back that gained over I, 000 yards last year, not to mention a very stingy defense led by captain Andy Moeller (no connection with the high school). 

Flexible laours~ good 
CALL TODAY!! (Business is Booming) 
IRISH GARDENS 
Plant Sale 
All Plants 50% off See Us Now (basement Lafortune) For the Best Prices in TownI 
Viewpoint meetings 
Tonight: New writers from activities night Tomorrow: Regular columnists 
Meeting time: 8 P.M. Meeting Place: Room 341 Nieuwland 
Add all of this to the fact that Big Bad Bo's record on opening day is 16-I since he's been at the helm at Michigan. 
The last time Michigan stepped on the field, it defeated Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl to complete a I 0-1-1 campaign. 
The last time the Irish stepped on the field, Jimmy Johnson's steamrolling crew crushed them by 51 points, to make for a 5-6 finish. 
So it may seem odd that a game between two teams com­ing off entirely different seasons may attract so much national at­tention. But after all. it is Notre Dame, and everyone seems to want to keep an eye on this Holtz guy. 

Parseghian optimistic about Holtz' chances 
Associated Press 

SOUTH BEND-Ara Parseghian, whose Notre Dame football teams won 95 games and two national championships in I I years, predicts that new coach Lou Holtz' ability to motivate players will make him a success with the Irish. 
"Within three years, he will set a pattern here that will bring a consistent winner. In three years, he will go down as one of Notre Dame's winningest coaches," said Parseghian. 
Holtz will make his debut with the Irish on Saturday when they face Michigan's third-ranked Wolverines. He succeeds Gerry Faust, who suffered more losses in his five years at Notre Dame than any Irish coach in history. 
As a color commentator on ABC from 1975-81, Parseghian saw Holtz lead an underdog Arkansas team over Oklahoma in the 1978 Orange Bowl and over previously unbeaten Texas in 

1981. In both cases, Parseghian said, Arkansas was clearly out­manned, but Holtz won by motivating his players. 
"He has enthusiasm. He's a very knowledgeable guy, and he knows how to motivate," said Parseghian, who now serves as football analyst with CBS. "You can't count this guy out. He's been around. He knows what he's doing. He can motivate people and that's a prerequisite for this job." 
Parseghian was openly critical of recent Notre Dame teams coached by Faust, who resigned last fall. 
Parseghian would not spec­ulate on the Irish's chances during Holtz's first season. 

Wednesday: Heinekin $1 Thursday: Tropical Drinks Band: Par three Friday: Extended Hours: 9pm-3am Saturday: Game Hours: 
12:00 noon · 2:00 pm After the game· 3:00am 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm -2:00am 
-------------------~--------­~~ co~ 
Go-J $1.00 off entrance fee ~o, 
':11:'~~~~------------------------------------------------------W•e•dn.e.sd•a•y•,S•e•p•te•m•b•er•l•O•'•l9•8•6•-•p•a•ge...ll Gary Larson
Bloom County 

Campus 
I 2: I 0 to I p.m.: Closed Meeting, Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
2 to 5 p.m.: Senior Formal sign-ups, west basement of Lafor­tune 
3:30 to 5 p.m.: Computer minicourse, fullscreen terminal emulation, I 08 Computing Center, free Dinner: Senior Night at Chi-Chi's, Lou Holtz Welcome Week 
6 p.m.: Meeting. Juggling Club, Fieldhouse Mall. $4 7 p.m.: Film, ..Nosferatu, ·· O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:30 p.m.: Meeting and filrn ..Maids and Madams," Anti­Apartheid Network and African Studies, Center for Social Con­cerns 
7:30p.m.: Meeting. World Hunger Coalition, Center for Social Concerns 
8 p.m.: Meeting. Shakespeare Club, South Dining Hall Faculty Dining Hall 
"/lhi11k you'tv• had a.fi•w/(1() 111a11.1( ·};, kiddi11.! ca11 drit'l' 

Thanks toyou••• 
with lll!f I'.If!'·~ ch..,•d."

it works.•. 
·};,·,.,.had/{)() lllltch to dtiuk,

for 
let llll' d1ive." "Xobody drit'I'N "'!I car but,,,,:

AU. 
OFUS 


• DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR
Unitedway 

Berke Breathed The Far Side 


Kevin Walsh 

"Gangway ... Here come the Morrison brothers." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Counterfeit 5 Top military 
man: abbr. 9 Gem weight 14 Rhine 
tributary 15 Aroma 16 Varnish 
ingredient 17 New Orleans 
athletes 19 Church bigwig 20 Old Gr. coin 21 Paid notices 23 Gaelic 24 Succor 26 Zed's cousin 28 Deep-dish pies 33 Nautical term 36 Man and Wight 37 Earth pig­
ment: var. 39 John or Jane 40 Bauble 41 Fr. painter 42 Antitoxins 43 Era 44 Ranch hand 
at times 45 Most terrible 6 A Lupino 46 Sketch again 7 Exploding star 48 Horse whales 8 Formula of 50 Ardent belief 52 Wreath 9 Fair grade 53 A Jones with 10 Declare 
a locker 11 Lubbock 55 Gat athletes 57 Autry's men? 12 Iowa city 62 Mythical 13 Flag 
hunter 18 Movie Patri­64 Syracuse cia and kin athletes 22 Stylish 66 Playwright 25 Languish 
Alan Alexander 27 Ram's mate 67 Race distance 28 Claro e.g. 68 A Turner 29 Orange type 69 Impudent 30 Durham 70 Hied athletes 71 Male caribou 31 River bottom 
32 Fastener 
DOWN 34 Furze 1 Loses firmness 35 Some races 2 Red deer 38 Of a time 3 Region period 4 Track event 41 Cringe 5 Shell money 42 Old Fr. coin 




9/10/86 

44 Tatter 56 Tap problem 45 Extort 58 Obtains 47 Synthetic 59 Discharge 
fibers 60 Singing Home 49 Tended 61 Catch quickly 51 Cells 63 Napoleonic 53 Monk titles marshal 54 Melody 65 Tavern order 
Weare 
. . 
wtnrung. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIElY~
+ 
Senior sets record in win 
By MARGOT MACHECA 
Sports Writer 
Senior forward Corrine DiGiacomo led the Irish field hockey team to a convincing 6-0 shutout of Valparaiso University yesterday_ DiGiacomo tallied three goals in the first half to be­come tied for recognition as Notre Dame's all-time career goal scorer with 56 to her credit. 
"We played together well as a team today," noted Head Coach Jill Lindenfeld, "with outstanding inner passing and feeds to Cor­rine." Using that combination the Irish dominated the entire game. 
Junior Ann McGlinn contrib­uted one goal and two assists to the Irish's winning cause. Keeping the ball on Valparaiso's end of the field the whole after­noon, the Irish were seldom threatened by their opponents. The Crusaders made no shots on goal against Notre Dame's defense. 
"By maintaining possession and drawing penalty corners, we controlled the match," explained Lindenfeld. 
Because of great execution on 
the field by McGlinn and junior 
Benet DeBerry, the Irish had thir­
teen penalty corner opportuni­
ties. 
Observer.'flle Photo 

"Benet must be noted as a sig-
Benet DeBerry helped Notre Dame post a 6-0 shutout yesterday. see IRISH, page 10 Margot Macheca has all the details in her story at left. 
Notre Dame running backs must overcome injury and inexperience 
By MIKE SZ¥MANSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team's running back corps will have to overcome injury and in­experience to replace Allen Pinkett. the all-time leading groundgainer and three-time 
I.000-yard performer. However. multiple formations and a new offensive approach will also eliminate that tired cliche, 'Pinkett up the middle.' 
"We will run multiple offensive line-ups." said Irish running backs coach Mike Stock, "(including) the 'I' formation, the split backs, and the one-back of­fense. We can run most of the same plays out of the different sets." 
Sophmore Mark Green (6-0, 
183), who caught nine passes for 
I 16 yards as a receiver last season, will start against Mic­higan at tailback. 
"Mark earned the right to start." said Stock. "He has been the most consistent. most durable, and has stayed healthy. He has learned to play without the ball. to block effectively, and to catch the ball out of the back­field." 
"Green does everything you ask him to do," said Holtz. "He is a good college tailback." 
Senior Pernell Taylor (5-1 I, 2 16 with 7 carries for 37 yards and I TD) has emerged as the starting fullback. "Pernell has seen competition from both Frank Starns and Tom Monahan, who played last year, .. said Stock. "He was not I00 percent last year when he played. 
"He has been able to get some strength, and he has gained con­fidence in practice." Taylor spent two seasons rehabilitating from constructive knee surgery. 
"I didn't have any pre­conceived notions about what we would do offensively," said Head Coach Lou Holtz. "But because of the question marks regarding our offensive line and our tail­back and fullback positions, I didn't feel our personnel was conducive to running out of the 'I' all the time. 
"People always ask me about the option, and it's part of our package. But you won't see a steady diet of it because it's not a major part of the offense." 

Pernell Taylor 
The possibility of split end Tim Brown running out of the wish­bone is a real one. "We will try to get the ball to Brown as often and as in many ways as possi­ble," said Stock. 
Starns (6-4, 229 and 44 for 164, 3 TDs) worked primarily as the lead blocker for Pinkett last year. His spring was cut short in the fifth practice when he broke his tibia. "He is coming along nicely and has rehabilitated his leg. but he still has some bumps and bruises," said Stock. 
Monahan (5-I 0, 2 I 0 and 27 for 
93), a senior, is a former walk-on who was awarded a scholarship in the spring of '85. He was primarily used in short yardage situations. 
At tailback, sophomore D'Juan Francisco should be able to prac­tice tomorrow after healing his pulled hamstring. His brother senior Hiawatha (5-10, 194 and 60 for 252 and 3 TDs) switched from free safety after Alonzo Jef­ferson went down to a knee in­jury that will also keep him out this season. However. Hiawatha Francisco has had to battle injury as well. Severely arthritic knees kept him out of spring practice and offseason surgery helped the condition. Then he damaged a thumb liga­ment which was casted. Finally, he badly twisted his ankle in practice last weekjust as he was making major strides. Both of the brothers are doubtful against Michigan. 
"I know the Francisco brothers have an awful lot of talent with the ball under their arm," said Holtz, "but their ability to stay healthy always gives you some concern." 
"We are apprehensive about depth." said Stock. "We are really short on the plethora of backs normally at Notre Dame. We are hurting in physical numbers. 
"Two freshmen will help pick­up in depth, if they materialize. They must see things that they need to learn to be prepared to play Saturday." The two fresh­men are Anthony Johnson (6-1, 
220) and Braxston Banks (6-2, 
208) both at tailback. 
"The individual that really has a chance to make a contribution out of the freshman . dass ·is 
see BACKS; page 10 

Wednesday, September 10, 1986-page 12 
All eyes on Irish as Holtz era begins 
We are being watched. 
Soon the whole campus will be invaded. but not by the body snatchers. The visitors will just be harmlessjournalists, alumni, relatives, and heaven forbid, Michigan Wolverine fans. 
One might be curious as to what all the commotion is about. After all, it is just another silly little game, right? How much excitement can a team coming off a 5-6 season generate? 
Evidently, quite a bit. You see, there is this Holtz fellow who has everyone taking another look at that 5-6 team. 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

This Holtz fellow is not an imposing figure. He describes 
himself as "a guy five-feet-I 0, 150 pounds, who wears 
glasses, talks with a lisp and has a physique that looks like 
he's had beri beri and scurvy." 
He sounds like the type who spends his time playing com­
puterized chess. But instead, he spends his time rebuilding 
football programs. 

In 1969, Holtz took over the head spot at William & Mary. 
In his second season at the helm, the team earned a trip to 
the Tangerine Bowl. its first and only bowl invitation. 
Word started spreading throughout the east that this Holtz 
character could coach a football team. The word reached 
North Carolina State and Holtz became coach of the Wolfpack 
in 1972. A team coming off consecutive three-win seasons 
greeted him. He returned the greeting to the tune of an 8-3-1 
record. 

Continued success. including ACC "Coach of the Year" 
honors, enabled Holtz to be the first head coach to leave 
State with a winning record since 1919. 
More people began to take note of this Holtz, and in 1976 
he got a call from the pros. This is good news for players, 
but it was bad news for Holtz. One year was enough with the 
guys who play for pay as Holtz resigned before his first 
season, an unsuccessful one, was completed with the New 
York Jets. 

Arkansas was waiting with open arms for Holtz, after legend Frank Broyles stepped down following a 5-5-I season. The Razorbacks proved to be the right cure for Holtz· one-year slump. Picked to finish sixth in the Southwest Conference, Arkansas went I 0-I and upset second-ranked Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl, 31 -6. despite the suspension of three of­fensive stars who had accounted for over three-fourths of the 
·Arkansas touchdowns during the season. 
The legend of this little man grew bigger and bigger. He won' some national "Coach of the Year" awards and received over 12,000 letters in support of his disciplinary action. 
The Razorbacks continued to roll behind their wiry leader. who had a knack of ruining perfect seasons for opponents. Texas was ranked second in 1981, with its only loss being a 42-1 I rout in Arkansas. 
In 1982, Arkansas tied Southern Methodist to give the Mus­
tangs their only blemish of the year. 
But in 1983, the little leader of large accomplishments had a big falling-out with Broyles. This is important because Broyles was not only the former Arkansas head coach, he was then current athletic director who made Holtz former head coach, too. 
Oh, but do not weep for our little friend the football coach. 
Minnesota, possibly the worst team in the nation at the time, 
was happy to see if this little coaching engine could make 
them respectable. 
Guess what. He did. 

Last year, Minnesota lost to national-champion Oklahoma 13-7. The year before Holtz took over, the Gophers lost to Nebraska 84-13. 
That brings us to the present. The travels of this Holtz fella 
now have brought him under the dome. Naturally, the con­
tingent of observers has followed him. They all want to see 
if this amateur magician can pull another rabbit out of his 
hat. 

Once again, he is taking control of a program that is in the doldrums. Notre Dame· is in need of a quick fix as much as any team that Holtz has visited before. perhaps more. 
The job will not be easy for him. He has some real question 
marks on this squad, which he hopes become pleasant 
surprises and not problems. 
He has a quarterback who came off an injury and seemed to lose his confidence at times. He has virtually no experience at tailback, where the graduation of Allen Pinkett and injuries have forced some shuffling behind starter Mark Green. He has only one starting lineman returning. but that hole is considerably smaller than it was. 
The defensive outlook is a bit better. The defensive line is improved, but it had a lot of improving to do. The linebackers and defensive backs are experienced and should be fairly strong. 
Besides Holtz' own problems, he has a schedule with so 
see HOLTZ, page 10 



