
VOL XX, NO. 91 THURSDAY FEBRUARY I 3, I986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

lbc Obocrvcr/fodd P. Taylor
Praying for peace 
Fisher Hall residents lead meditation at the Church. From left, they are john Monteiro, Tom Prayerfor Peace sertJice being held at Sacred Heart Butlerand Tim Jrotne. 
Run-off, landslides highlight SMC vote 
By ELLYN MASTAKO Eileen Hetterich won the junior SentorStaffReporter class race with 73 percent of the vote. Thirty-seven percent of the 
Although the Saint Mary's election class voted. With Hetterich on the for student body officers was uncon­winning ticket are Jill Winterhalter, tested, there will be a runoff in the vice president Ann Ruth, treasurer race for senior class positions in yes­and Molly Stanton, secretary. terday's election in which 36 per­Janel Hamann won the sop­cent of the student body voted. homore class election with a 61 per· 
Four votes separated the two cent majority. Twenty-four percent 
tickets in the senior class elections. of the class voted In the election. 
There will be a run-off tomorrow Also included in the ticket are Annie 
between the ticket of Katie Sulllvan, Buch, vice president, Molly Flynn, 
president, Lori Lohman, vice presi­treasurer, and Rozel Gatmaitan, 
dent, Jenny Feeney, secretary, and secretary. 
Clare Hausman, treasurer; and the Tomorrow Is the date for the run­
ticket of Patty Curran, Maureen off election. Voting times are bet­
Erny, Chris Rashid, and Mary Roe. ween 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. in the Haggar 
Fony-six percent of the junior College Center. class voted in the election, the hig­Patty Curran, one of the can­hest percentage in any of the four didates, stressed the need for more races. voter turnout. She said she plans to 
In the student body elections continue her campaign by em· Jeanne Heller, Betsy Burke, and phaslzing her platform and the need Sarah Cook won the election with for even higher voter participation. 96 percent ofthe vote. There was an Katie Sulllvan, the other candidate option to vote yes or no on the bal­lot. See VOTE, page 5 
Aquino warns Reagan 
By SEAN NEALON levels, she said. spreading contagious diseases. She 
News Staff The term 'flu' does not necessarily advised students to keep healthy by 
not to support Marcos 
denote typical stomach flu with ac· getting extra rest, eating a good diet, A rash of colds and flus have hit companying symptoms such as mus­and engaging in at least some physi­
As8oclated Press she has already won the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu· cular pain, fever and diarrhea, said cal activity daily. 
presidency. dents in recent weeks. Seager. "While this won't prevent colds 
MANILA, Philippines -Corazon Marcos has declared himself According to Notre Dame Direc­Most students are being treated or flus, it will deter them," she said. 
Aquino warned President Reagan the "probable winner." tor of Health Services Carol Seager, for viral and bacterial infections in­Once afflicted, students can only 
yesterday against supporting the Reagan asserted at a news con­"The last three weeks have seen an cluding: sore throat, upper be treated for symptoms, Chel­
National Assembly's expected ference Tuesday night that the accelerated patient load, consisting respiratory infections, tonsilitis, miniak said. 
proclamation of President Fer­elections were marred by fraud primarily ofstudents with cold or flu bronchitis, and influenza, Seager Although both health centers 
dinand E. Marcos as winner oflast on both sides, but his remark was symptoms." said. have a full range of prescription and 
Friday's presidential election. disputed by several U.S. election The Student Health Service is cur­While viral infections may be ap­non-prescription medicines 
The assembly, dominated by observers who said they had seen rently seeing up to 135 patients a proaching a small-scale epidemic at available for patients, treatment 
Marcos' New Society Movement no evidence of fraud by Aquino's day, but Monday more than 190 stu­Notre Dame, Saint Mary's students usually consists of aspirin and rest in 
party, is to begin official tabula­supporters. dents waited from fifteen minutes to seem to be comparatively healthier, conjunction with an increased fluid 
tion of votes tomorrow, using No immediate reaction came two and a half hours at the clinic, she according to Gloria Chelminiak, intake, she said. 
what the opposition has said are from the presidential palace to said. director of Health Services at Saint "We try and make the students 
fraudulent local vote tallies. Reagan's statements or to his Although the majority of students Mary's. feel as comfortable as possible while 
"I would wonder at the decision to send diplomatic receiving treatment remain in their She said there is "an increase in letting the virus pass," Chelminiak 
motives ofa friend ofdemocracy trouble-shooter Philip Habib to own dorms, the in-patient unit's 20 upper-respiratory infections and flu­said. 
who chose to conspire with Mr. Manila as his personal emissary. beds are full, Seager said. like symptoms, but no epidemic." Meanwhile Notre Dame's Health 
Marcos to cheat the Filipino Aquino said only that Habib Students are admitted to the unit Chelminiak explained that the Center is working at full capacity to 
people of their liberation," said depending on the severity of their proximity of students living on 
Aquino, who claimed anew that See AQUINO, page 4 symptoms and their own tolerance campus increases the chances of See FLU, page 4 
Director says terrorism isn't a threat to students abroad 
By LYNNE R. STRAND dents to keep their eyes open and Janowsky noted, "Nothing hap­of a London store to see barricades other way,"Janowsky saJd. 
StaffReporter beware of the news." pened in London except for the in the street. "I asked someone what Airports seem to be a key target 
Eric Janowsky, a junior who rioting in Bricksten and Hampton was going on," he said. "And they for terrorists, as demonstrated In the 
Notre Dame's foreign study par­studied in London last semester, said Court. It was the worst rioting ever." said there was a bomb scare." 
ticipant'! are not any more suscep­he noticed less people flying to the Janowsky said he once walked out "I simply turned and walked the See STUDENTS, page 4 
tible to terrorism than anyone else, Athens airport, "even though they 
according to Isabel Charles, assistant could fly there rather cheaply." 
provost and director of Foreign "There's a general feeling of 
'Terrorist' a relative term, say profs 
Study (>rograms. trepidation, but the threat of ter­
"They aren't In any kind ofdanger rorism didn't stop anybody. It's kind By LYNNE R. STRAND "What is terrorism?" Gilligan rorists. The Nicaraguan government 
that couldn't happen in a freak acci­of paranoid to be afraid of traveling StaffReporter asked. "Individuals attempting to accuses the United States of the 
dent," Charles said. in Europe," Janowsky said. hijack a plane for some personal or same (violations). 
"Most people, though they "You can't dwell on it, or you'll "One man's terrorist is another political ends. There's also "We have supported Marcos and 
deplore terrorism, really believe stay inside all your life," he added. man's freedom fighter," said John government-sponsored terrorism," Pinochet, who systematically 
such acts are isolated and there's no Gilligan, director of the newly­he said, adding, "It's a desperate ac­tortured their own people," he said. 
way they can protect themselves.... Junior Dan O'Hearn said he has created Institute for Peace Studies. tion ofweak people." Said Daher, "Nobody is born a ter­
Students can travel as safely in simllar sentiments. "I never worried As terrorist acts and threats from Nazlh Daher, an assistant profes­rorist." 
Europe: as they do here In the United about terrorism," said O'Hearn, who libya's Moammar Khadafy have in­ssor of modern languages, also said Daher, a native of Lebanon who 
States," she said. was also in last semester's London creased, so have the calls for an end the term is used inconsistently. has lived in the United States for 14 
Sister Mary Gube, chairman of Program. to the violence. Yet before the world "There are smacks of hypocrisy," years, pointed to the Injustices com­
modern languages at Saint Mary's, "I don't know of anybody who can eradicate terrorism "we need Daher said. "We (the United States) mitted against Palestinians as their 
said she agreed. "Our students are changed their travel plans," he said. the definition of terrorism im­apply terrorism only to those who reason for committing terrorism. 
more prey to general pick-pocketing While riding on the Tube, the Lon­bedded in international law," said oppose our policies." "The Palestinian refugees were 
robbed of their basic human rights,"than anything else," she said. "You don subway system, O'Hearn said he Gilligan. Gilligan said he agreed. "We 
just have to take your chances." saw signs warning not to touch any "Then we can do somethingabout accuse the libyan government for See TERRORIST, page 4 
Added Charles, "We tell our stu-unattended packages. it," he said. hiding, financing, and supplying rer­

The~ Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief 
A woman who said she suffered brain damage whep a garage door hit her on the head at a department store was awarded S2 million in damages Friday. Susan Berberian, 30, of Framingham, Mass., was walking out of a K-mart auto repair shop four years ago when a worker closed the door to one ofthe bays and it struck her in the head. K-mart said the award will be appealed. A doctor testifying for the store said he believed Berberian was faking her injuries. -AP 
It's beach party time at St. Vincent College, Penn., where students have decorated the campus coffee house with five tons of sand, 12-foot palm trees, coconuts and fishnets filled with artificial lobsters, fish and seashells. "It's so authentic, you can almost hear the surf splashing," said Barbara Bungard, a co-chairwoman of the event. Besides a good imagination, all that is needed for admis­sion to the party Saturday night are a college identification card, a pair ofsunglasses and a swimsuit, Bungard said. -AP 
The type Ofcyanide that killed a woman in Yonkers, N.Y., who took Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules last weekend dif­fered from the poison that killed seven people in Chicago in 1982, the Food and Drug Administration said yesterday. Tests conducted on two ofthree poisoned capsules found in the bottle used by Diane Elsroth showed that the cyanide had a different chemical profile from the chemical used in Chicago in 1982, FDA spokesman William Grigg said yesterday in a call from his Washington-area office. The Chicago case remains unsolved. -AP 
AIDS may be spreading from a few African na­tions to the entire continent as heterosexual men transmit the lethal disease to prostitutes, who then pass the illness on to other men, a new study suggests. At present, AIDS in Africa is confined largely to Zaire, Grwanda, Uganda and other central African nations. -AP 
Of Interest 
A conference on religion and politics in the American milieu, co-sponsored by the Office of Policy Studies and "The Review ofPolitics," will be held in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion tomorrow and Saturday. -Tbe Observer 
The dance floor in LaFortune has been laid 
and preparation is being finalized to sand, stain and varnish the floor. This procedure will begin today and conclude next Thursday. During this time, this area on the second floor will be strictly off­limits to everyone except the construction crew. Thanks for your cooperation. -The Observer 
Professor Emeritus Ernest Sandeen and Professor John Matthias will read from their poetry tomorrow at the Wilson Commons at 8 p.m. All are welcome. -Tbe Observer 
Father Walter Kasper, professor of theology at the University ofTuebingen and a theological advisor during the recent Extraordinary Synod ofBishops in Rome, will give a lecture entitled, "Faith and Reason: An Unfinished Theme ofEnlightenment" tonight at 7:30 in Notre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium. Kasper's lecture is sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies and made possible by funding from the Exxon Foundation. -Tbe Observer 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold 
a meeting tonight at 7 at Flanner Hall's Commoner room. All are welcome. -Tbe Observer 
Weather 
Igloo-building on the Main Quad is not permitted. A 20 percent chance of snow late today with highs from 15 to 20. A 60 per­cent chance of snow tonight and tomorrow with lows near I5 and highs from 25 to 30. 

Is pay for plasma donations spending cash or blood money? 
The other day, I was paging through The Observer when my eye spotted an advertisement a little different from the usual pizza coupons and student government announcements. 
"Your plasma makes a difference," it read. The ad 
went on to explain how donated plasma is used to treat 
hemophilia, and how the red blood cells are returned to 
the donor's body. Strangest of all, the ad offered S7 
"Cash For Your Donation," plus an extra S4 with the ad. 
Not a bad deal, I quickly decided, and showing the ad to some friends, told them of my plans to donate that afternoon. To my surprise, they reacted with horror. "Blood money!" "You're selling your body for Sl1 !" "You blood prostitute!" they yelled, only half-kidding. 
I was so taken aback I decided to cancel my plans. It did seem a little unkosher to earn money for the "gift of life" that Red Cross bloodmobiles are constantly plead­ing for. 
But reconsider that ad. Eleven dollars is a lot to offer for one liter of plasma. "Worldwide demand for 

Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
24 hours, a donor can give up to twice a week, instead ot the eight weeks needed between full blood donations. The clinic has a few regular Notre Dame donors, who come in and study as they bleed, said Edwards. 
Another concern directed at the blood industry is that paid donations lower the quality of the blood pool, by giving incentives to malnourished or alcoholic per­sons. But the clinic is extremely careful in its screening process, Edwards said. "Our screening process is so tight up front. Ifa person looks like he's been drinking, a red flag goes up and I say 'I'm sorry, you can't donate.' " 
plasma is not being met," the 
Each donation is tested for ad said. Demand must be AIDS, hepatitis, syphilis and high to draw such a price. other diseases before it is 
In fact, demand is very high. Three million Americans a year need trans­fusions, and 19 in 20 will have one before they die. Only eight million people a year donate, according to the American Blood Com­mission, with one liter per donation. Severe accident victims and some surgical patients often need many liters. 
The problem is compl­icated by the fear of AIDS among donors, which has led to private "blood clubs" and directed donations, where you stock up your blood pouches in case you, a friend or relative gets hurt. 
Although AIDS-phobia has affected the blood supply, the fears are completely groundless. Even in cases where plasma is taken out and cells returned to the body, the liquid is kept always in sterilized plastic pouches which are only used once. Needles and tubes, to~, are sterilized and thrown away after the first use. 
At the South Bend plasma clinic, which is run for profit by American Plasma Systems, blood is withdrawn and centrifuged to separate the red blood cells from plasma, according to Greg Edwards of the clinic. The cells are returned through the same needle, which is kept in the arm during the procedure. Two liters are drawn off this way, one at a time, yielding one liter of plasma. The whole procedure takes about an hour and a half. 
Since the plasma can be regenerated by the body in returned to the body. Food and Drug Administration standards are very stringent, he said, and the standards of their pharmaceutical clients are even higher. 
Unlike the nationwide trend, APS's blood volume has grown. However, its 
Notre  Dame  and  Saint  
Mary's  clientele  has  
decreased.  Edwards  does  
not  attribute  this  to  AIDS  

fears but to "more money from Mom and Dad." 
For those who do have qualms about selling their body fluids, plasma for money is not the only way. The Red Cross regularly conduct blood drives at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This spring they will be at the Notre Dame infirmary several times a month, including Feb. 19, 25 and 26. They will visit Saint Mary's April I6 and I 7. The or­ganization even set up a blood clinic in Alumni Hall last week and may continue to do this for other dorms. The Red Cross gets a good response on campus. "Notre Dame does supply a lot of our blood throughout the year," said a representative of the South Bend branch. 
Eventually, I decided that worrying about the ethical problems ofdonating for money was not a good excuse for not givinganytbtng. I just may show up at the infir­mary this Wednesday. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 

AMERICAN CANCER I SOCIElYa+ 
Wln$1,000! Poetry Contest A $l,(XXl grand prize is being offered in World of Poetry's new poetry con· test, open to all students. There are I 00 prizes in all. For a FREE list of rules and prizes, write ­WORLD OF POETRY 2431 Stockton, Dept. CS S.c...nento, CA 95817 :j:: .... :z .s ~~ ... :a:Q. :Q Q) :Q. U) Ql ~~ ~ Cl. i z ~ I ~ J II. ... I (J ., N  



Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Typesetters ............. Mary EDen Harrington 
Becky Gundennan News Editor...•...•.............. Mark Pankowski Copy Editor ................................ Tripp Baltz Sports Copy Editor............•.. Many Strasen Viewpoint Copy Editor_,.•.Julie CoUinge 
VIewpoint Layout......•.•..•..... Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout.........;......•..•. Carol Brown ND Day Editor ..............•....Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign ..................................Fred Nelson Kimberly Brown Photographer ...................... Todd P. Taylor Steve Grablcki 
The Observer ( 11SPS W9 l· ~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( JlU per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46<;<;6. 
Th~ Observer is a member of Th~ Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
r~srrv.ed. 
The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 3 
SMC Sophomore Parents'Weekend to be packed with activities, people 
By HELENE GOUDEAU 
News Staff 
A busy weekend of activities has been planned for this year's Sop­homore Parents Weekend at Saint Mary's College, according to Shari GiUig and Patricia Murray, co­chairpersons of the event. 
The price for the entire weekend has been set at S80, a S5 Increase from the previous three years. The increase was called for in order to 
cover  necessary  expenses,  Gillig  
said.  
This  has  not  affected  the  es­ 

timated attendance, however, which should be near 450 people, including parents and students, she said. 
Gillig added that there could be as many as 800 people because many students arc expected to bring dates. A fee of S.20 will be charged for any additional guests at the din­ncr/dance, she said. 
Because co-chairpersons have been appointed this year, there has yet to be any complaints or problems, said Gillig. She added everything has been running smoothly. 
The weekend's activities, slated for February 28 through March 2, will begin on Friday with registra­tion at the Angela AthletiC Facility from 2 to 6 p.m. Latecomers can register at Angela on Saturday from 9 
a.m. to noon. 
The highlight of Friday evening, however may be the sophomore class talent show, which will be held at Angela. 
Saturday's activities start with an optional sports event to be held at Angela from 9 a.m. to noon. 
For those who may be more cul­turally inclined, there will be a taste of the arts 10 a.m. to noon in the second floor parlor of the Haggar College Center. Sophomores will have their art work displayed throughout the area. 
In the Welsh Parlor at Haggar, the Women's Choir will provide perfor­mances at 1 0 and 11 a.m. 
Sister Campion Kuhn will add a new touch to the weekend this year by presenting a slide show and his­tory of Saint Mary's in the Chameleon Room at Haggar at 10:30 
a.m. and again at 11 :30. 
An Open House for all parents, faculty, and students will be held from 12:30 to 2:30p.m. at Angela. 
From 4 to 5 p.m., the sophomores will hold a special mass at the Church of Loretto. 
Amajor event ofthe weekend will be the dinner/dance at the Century Center from 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. A cash bar will be available from 6 to 7:15 p.m. 
Between 7:15 and 7:45p.m., Wil­liam Hickey, acting president of Saint Mary's, will give the welcome, along with Gillig and Murray. This will be followed by dinner, followed by a dance until 1 a.m. 
The weekend will come to a close Sunday with a brunch catered by SAGA, who is also catering the open house. 
The Century Center will cater the dinner which will consist ofchicken cordon bleu, mixed vegetables, salad and chocolate mousse. 

GTE ACADEMIC ALL-AMERICAN 
The GTE Academic All-Americans are selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America. They are fine college and university athletes who also have outstanding academic records. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 34 year old program. 

• 
1st Team Football 

• 
Pre-Professional MaJor • 3.77 GPA • Sen1or 



GTEAcADEMICALLAMERICA TEAM 
SELECTED B y C o S I D A 


---~-~-----~------~--~-~---~----------­
The Observer 
Students 
continuedfrom page 1 
Rome  and  Vienna  attacks  last  
December.  
Madhu Malik,  a  junior  who  

studied in Innsbruck, Austria last year, said, "Airports are the most sus­ceptible to such acts with everybody coming and going." 
Malik, a world traveler since age five, said she believes most airports do "thorough, thorough checkups." 
"But you never know when ter­rorists may strike," she added. 
O'Hearn said he noticed the air­port guards in Brussels, Rome and Milan carried machine guns. 
Malik also expressed some ap­prehension. "Middle Easterners make me paranoid when I'm travel­ing. I make sure I don't say anything to arouse them," she said. 
"I have nothing personal against them. I understand the abuses com­mitted against them, but I don't believe in violence." 
"Terrorism just creates more an­tagonism," she said. "Terrorists have no respect for human life." 
Terrorism 
continuedfrom page 1 
Daher said. 
"One day in 1948 the Palestinians 
were declared non-people," said 
Daher, referring to the 1948 declara­
tion of Israel as a state. "When they 
do seemingly crazy things, it is not 
difficult to explain." 
Terrorism is not a hobby, he 
added. "There's some deeper cause 
ofit ... We must understand that," 
"Who are terrorists?," Daher 
asked. "Teens, refugees, the under­
privledged, the undernourished, the 
under everything .... And some do it because they believe" in the Pales­tinian cause, he added. 
One ofthe problems of terrorism, Daher said, is that it "... breeds ter­rorism, and then multiplies it." 
Referring to a past Israeli attack on a Palestinian refugee camp, Daher said, "When they see their parents and brothers killed on a wall without any reason, terrorism is the normal thing (for the young)to do;" he said. 
Latin America also has seen its 
share of terrorist acts. 
Ricardo Araujo, a Notre Dame 
senior from Brazil, said he believed 
terrorism stems from political and 
religious reasons. 
"There is an explanation behind 
terrorism," Araujo said. "It comes 
from anger. The terrorists don't 
think they can speak out," he said. 
But terrorism cannot be stopped 
with violence, said Araujo. "You 
don't have to grab guns to fight ter­
rorism," he said. 
Daher agreed, saying "It's a mistake trying to Stop terrorism by force." 
A better method, Daher said, would be for the United States to treat Middle-eastern countries equally. 

. APPhoto 
Libyan leader Colonel Moammur KbadafY arrived tn Vienna and was greeted byAustrian Chancellor Bruno Kretsky tn Scbwec­bat airport, where terrorists attacked an El AI desk tn December. Stories below and at left. 
Charles said people usually con-Embassy would get in touch with nect the Middle East with terrorism. (Notre Dame), if there were any 
"Our students inJerusalem tell us problems." that the city is quiet for the most She said, "we've never had any part," said Charles. "The American calls," however. 
"There's no problem without a solution," said Daher. "There must 
be  concessions.  The  Middle  East  
doesn't  need  homogenity,  but  
equality."  

Referring to the close relations between the United States and Is­rael, Daher said, "Balanced support (by the United States) would much diminish the terrorist acts. The United States government could stop being ignorant or acting ig­norant." 
Without the support ofthe United States, Gilligan said, "Israel couldn't last one week ..." 
Yet the United States must have the support of other countries to counter terrorism, Gilligan said. 
"The United States could make it a lot more difficult for the terrorists with European help," he said. "But that won't happen at the present time." 
"Europe thinks we're going after the wrong-guy and in the wrong way;" Gilligan said, adding that Israel held the same view as Europe. 
"The United States says Khadafy is responsible for the terrorist acts in the Mediterrean in recent months. But Israel says the United States is wrong -it's Syria ... Maybe Libya is easier to push around than Syria," he added. 

"CtfQoweftri {,ott aQQ .OCCO~iOtt~." 
Comein and Browse 
3l7lincolnway l3l-3354 

MID .. EASTERN . VEGETARIAN 
• Vqna,.. .t Jkal D~ltn FOODS SHAWBIU#A • MUGBDERA-BABA GHENOVJ 
HOMMUS-FELAFEL ~ 
TEBBOULI 814/.AD SOUTH BEND • LEBAN_ESB STYLE 
• 
Pit• Sll4fed Salwlouidtu GYROS

•
'/).~~~t.~ ~~~~M ~ J;;f;l' Coif,. 288·5639 COMPLETECATEit/NGFOR 838 Portage


PARTIES & BANQUETf 
107.-Discount for ND/SMC Students 
With this Coupon 
Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 4 
FLU 
continuedfrom page 1 
combat the escalating cases on campus, employing two full-time doctors from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and an additional doctor from 3 to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday, Seager said. Three nurses run the clinic and 
two more run the in-patient ward 
Aquino 
continuedfrom page 1 
would likely get a courteous welcome. 
As to suggestions that she 
reconcile with Marcos, she replied: 
"It would be a delusion ofpolicy that 
an opposition whose leaders and fol­
lowers have been and are being during the day, she said. There are always at least two nurses at Notre Dame's clinic, including weekends, so students should not wait for treat­ment. 
The Saint Mary's Student Health Center is also open daily, Chel­miniak said. Visiting hours are from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m, including weekends, and there is at least one nurse on duty 24 hours a day. 
killed can suddenly settle down to a Western-style opposition role in a healthy two-party system. Too many will be dead the moment the world's head is turned." 
The nation's Roman Catholic bis­hops arranged to meet yesterday to review the election. 
Results of two separate counts kept showing opposite results five days after the election. 


Don't be Dull on Valentine's Day 
Send your valentines in on Observer display ad *Pictures •graphics *your own wording deadline to submit display ads for Feb.14 is 1 p.m. TODAY Call 239·5303 for details. 
IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! Give them a suntan AND • an acu-massage BED 10 visits $39.00 NEW! Acu-massage bed 1 visit $4.50 $3 per 15 minutes BOOTH 20 visits $39 00 Buy 3 visits, get one free 1 visit s2:oo  
Call 277-7026 J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road 1M-~ Mishawaka  


..----------------------------­
-------------------~-­
The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 5 

18 Dartmouth students arrested during protest 
Trapped for four hours after his plane bit power lines and was bung upside down 80 feet above the ground, Dear1 Plath, 58, and another man are released from the suspended single-engine craft by rescuers near Ontario, Calif. International Airport early yesterday morning. 
Vote 
continuedfrom page 1 
in the run-off, said that she knew the race would be close. She added, "We want to tell everyone how impor­tant their vote is. We want them to know that their vote does count." 
Eileen Hetterich said was pleased to have been elected to represent the junior class. She said, "We want to serve our class in all aspects ofstu­dent life, academic, spiritual, and athletic, as well as social." She also stressed the need to build cohesive­ness within the class as well as bet­ween the junior class at Saint Mary's and the junior class at Notre Dame. 
Hetterich added, "We want our 
class to do things together, whether 
it be a class mass or a class dance." 
Sophomore Class President-elect Janel Hamann said, "I am looking for­ward to a great year. My main goal is to get every member of the sop­homore class informed and in­volved." One of the ways she said she proposes to keep everyone in­formed Is to send copies ofthe coun­cil's weekly meetings to every member of the class. 
' She said she was disappointed with the low voter turnout and will try to encourage more voter par­ticipation in future races. 
Student Body President-elect Jeanne Heller said, "I wish that more people had voted," adding one of her main goals is to encourage both voter and candidate participation for the hall officer elections in April. 
Another one of her administra­tion's goals will be to examine the duties and the structure of the Academic Council. "We will also give priority to the issue of minorities at Saint Mary's," Heller said. 
Within the structure of student government, she said, "We are con­sidering the addition of new com­missioners to our cabinet." 
OR£55: CASUAL. ELE&ANcJ! 
Associated Press 
HANOVER, N.H. Eighteen Dartmouth College students were arrested Tuesday when they un­successfully tried to stop school offi­cials from tearing down a shanty that had been erected on the college green as a symbol against apartheid. 
The arrests on criminal trespass charges capped three months of struggle between the school and groups ofstudents over roughly S63 million in the college's investments in companies that do business in South Africa. 
Hanover police led the students away in handcuffs as about 300 ot­hers looked on. 
The shanty, which was con­structed along with other shacks last November to protest the invest­ments, was loosened from its frozen moorings by workers using a jack­hammer, and taken away with a forklift. 
One of the 18 arrested also was charged with simple assault on a police officer. All were released on S500 personal recognizance bail, police said. 
The arrests occurred about 3 p.m., after protest spokesman Erik Ness told a crowd of gathering students that the Dartmouth Community for Divestment was trying to negotiate relocation of the shanty to another campus location but the administra­tion was refusing to cooperate. 
"They are not bargaining in good faith," Ness had said. "Through this, the college is not dealing with the issues of divestment and racism, they're dealing with the logistics." 
Dartmouth Dean of Students Ed­ward Shanahan said the college was negotiating the removal of the 
shanties with the group, but that 
group members on Tuesday said 
they did not have the authority to 
approve a removal proposal and 
asked for more time. 
"We were bargaining, but we weren't going to have a protracted discussion," Shanahan said. 
Many in the crowd sang "We Shall 
Overcome" and chanted their sup­
port. 
Police first arrested a group ofstu­
dents inside the shanty. A 
plainclothes police officer then told 
other students nearby that anyone 
wishing to be arrested should 
remain at the door. Police then ar· 
rested the remaining students. 
Before the faceoff on the green, 
grounds crews removed a second 
shanty from the lawn of the ad­
ministration building, about 100 
yards from the green. 
"I think It's wonderful," said Roland Reynolds, a junior from San Juan Capistrano, Calif., and the editor of the conservative newspaper, the Dartmouth Review. "It's Hanover's Grenada." 
Some of the independent newspaper's staff members, not in· eluding Reynolds, face possible dis­ciplinary action as a result of a sledgehammer attack on the shan­tytown in January. 
The sledgehammer attack, which resulted in no injuries, sparked a brief takeover of the administration building and a one-day suspension of classes. 
Last week, College President David Mclaughlin urged that the shanties had served their purpose and should be removed from the green by Sunday, the end of the col­lege's Winter Carnival. 
Your plasma makes adifference. 
H.l~noOOuOt!. 
aoout•t-vour oonauon make\ a Otflerence Tne Otflerence oe­rween 01 00v lead· no .. normal. actiVE' Ole ar belnO an fo'lVal<l ThtY ~ ll,l>t> i IJIOCX1 OIS<'asl' c-.:1 hemOOiltlta. WlltCn wnOIV means tll,lt tnev IJIOCX1 C3MOt clOt t>v ·~f Trtev ptev!QBv leO il ptettv \1lellerea kfe because tnev cru10 Ole('(J to aeatn from a ITWlO' t"III'V roaav tnev can oe treatea Wttn il ciOft.-.g fact()( tll,lt tnev 0\MlOOOtes 
dO rot PlCXUr 
And that Clotting faCtor 
Is taken frOm the pasma you donate. 
HOw much plasma 
IS needed? A IOf Far exill<l(lle. one ll'ltt of piaVN vtelclltess tnan 01 tea<POOOful Of tne CIOn.-.g factor ~neea. 10 vou can 1ft! tne neea far l¥oe ~o1 p~a~ma JUSt far t"terTO ~ Ana 1~ of IIlllS of p~avN 11e U\eO 
'" f10!Piall and 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
PlaSma ~ tne loQuoCJ .n WlltCn 01000 cell\ ille 11 an\· wrea Af)(lro"'natetv h.llf Of 01000 >\ f)I.WI1.1 Tne IJIOCX1 cell\ ille le()aratea from vour f)I.WI1.1 at tne 
aoror center t>v d PI'OC~I caneo l)lalmapllere\11 ana 
returnea to vour IXXIv 
Tne Oli\ITiataken hom 
vour IJIOCX1 ~ aoout 91'1 rn.ner all ana water. molt of tne rernaooer ~ pt'Oieon\ It >\ lrtele pro 
reons tnar ille U\eO to 
CashForYourdonation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PLASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation is important, so important that we'll pay $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 if you donate a second time within th~ some .......,calendar week. In addition, if you meet thft physical requiremenh you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.00 wo<th of FREE Lob Tests. 
Open. TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9:00·5:00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend 

~i~~~_()__i_Il___t________________
Th_u_rs-day-,F-eb_ru_ary_1_3,_19-86--p-ag-e6 
Parietals offenders have been treated 'too fairly' 
I would like to voice my opinion of the "issue of the month" at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, that is, parietals. 
I think we can all agree that parietals violators are morally deficient, depraved in­dividuals with a perverse desire to flaunt their opposition to any law, order and authority. But is the fault solely theirs? I propose that it is not. After all, the character of the majority of the students at Notre Dame is still in its formative stage. I therefore propose that there are other culprits who must not escape punishment. 
Liz Reeves 
guest column 
First, there are the offenders' families. It is from the family that children derive most of their social and religious values. Undoubtedly, at some point in the little deviant's childhood, his or her parents neglected to administer a severe beating when, as a child, he or she vi­olated some minor law ofthe household. As a result, the pitiful pervert, now a young adult, is completely incapable of existing in polite society. I recommend an immediate trial by jury of cardinals to decide the fate of these unfit parents, with a suggested punishment of the suspension of all visitation rights, a revok­ing oftheir driver's licenses and an immediate denial of suffrage. This, of course, is not to be interpreted as a minimum punishment, as each case will be judged individually. 
Second, there are the deans, professors, academic advisors and teachers who instilled who knows what repulsive doctrines in the tender hearts of these traitors to the Notre Dame community. I feel strongly, nay, I insist, that each individual who had any significant contaCt with or influence on these psychotic and dangerous young adults be required to present a full account ofany criminal offenses, traffic violations, sexually communicable diseases or contact with men with hair longer than their shoulder blades, to a board ofpsyc­hoanalysts. Also, they must report for a urinalysis, a blood test and a close screen for any knowledge of the Russian language beyond that which could be gleaned from the Sunday edition of the New York Times. 
Any individuals who can be associated with subversive activity shall be denied contact with minors for the rest of their natural lives, unless they agree to be lobotomized, sterilized and to accept a new identity, which will be determined by the staff of the North Dining Hall. This punishment may be suspended if the convicted party agrees to serve for the remainder of his or her life as a test pilot for the space shuttle program. Of course, none ofthese are to be interpreted as minimum punishments, as each case shall be judged individually. 
It is not fair to impugn exclusively the character of the above-named social groups. Therefore, I would like to make the ad­ministration aware of the possible involve­ment of any and all of the following: the offenders' childhood friends, pets, parish priests, roommates, section mates, the editors of their most widely circulated hometown newspapers, Dan Rather, the pope, and of course, the omniscient guru of the freshman class, Emil Hofman. 
And what of the offenders themselves? I do not feel that expulsion or suspension is a punishment which fits the crime. After all, if these young criminals are products ofsociety, is it proper or morally responsible for the ad­ministration to send these flawed, weak souls back to the dens of sin and iniquity from whence they came? I think not. 
Therefore, I would recommend a semester offorced labor during which period these las­civious schizophrenics can contempklte the gravity of their offense. Afterwards, they will be granted the opportunity to confess their sins and beg forgiveness from the Notre Dame community on the steps ofthe Administration Building. 
Ifthe student body, alumni, and administra­tion decide that the individuals have suffi­ciently debased themselves, they will be readmitted to the school, although the glaringly ugly account of their wayward steps will remain on their permanent record. If forgiveness is denied, they will be sentenced to a slow and agony-filled death in a glorious exhibition at the front circle, where their death will serve as a warning to the South Bend/Notre Dame community. 
This proposal is humbly and piously sub­mitted in the nineteen hundred and eighty­sixth year of our Lord on the campus of the University of Notre Dame du Lac. I hope and pray that these suggestions will be accepted in the same spirit in which they were made. 
Liz Reeves is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. ­
Memories of the 'Four Horsemen' still alive at ND 
"Your grandfather is one ofthe 'Four Horse­men ofNotre Dame!' " 
Words not uncommon to myself as I've grown through the years and now find myself a junior at Notre Dame. However, even though I've told and retold the story of a man famous in my eyes and in the eyes of many others, I've never grown tired of sharing his story of accomplishments and athletic ac­claim which constantly shadowed his love for Notre Dame. The man I speak ofis Don Miller, Notre Dame's former right halfback, who quartered in the infamous backfield known as "The Four Horsemen ofNotre Dame." 
Dan Thompson guest column 
It all began some 62 years ago when, "Outlined against a blue, gray October sky ..." the lives offour young men would be altered forever. The immortal words of the New York Herald-Tribune's Grantland Rice on that blue, gray October day coined a phrase which became legendary in the annals ofcollege football history. 
To capture the spirit of that year of 1924, one must understand that the Cadets ofArmy were considered "the powerhouse" of na­tional college football, aided by the effective military draft. Notre Dame, on the other hand, came out ofthe small town ofSouth Bend, Ind. led by the soon to be famous Knute Rockne. Wor~ of "tradition" and "reputation" were yet unknown to the Irish football program. But oh, what a tradition would be initiated on that October day. 
The matchup of the Army -Notre Dame game was expected to be nothing more than another Cadet rout, adding to their column of wins. However, the unexpected would occur and history would be made. Notre Dame prevailed that dreary fall day by a score of 13 · 7, a score which shocked the country. It was following this unimaginable upset that Grantland Rice, a South Bend reporter, sat at his typewriter and made famous the phrase "the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame." Hen­ceforth, the lives of these four young men 
Doonesbury 
YOV Sf£, MICHAEl.... WHILE IT'IJ 8tGReAT 7rJ 5EU A fflV PIEC£5 WNIGHT, THe 
MAIN 7H!NG15 7rJ 6ET PICK&/? UP BYA /YIAJOR ti4LI.B<.Y. 
\ 
would be accompanied by fame and attention. The men comprising this quartet of Death, Pestilence, Famine and Destruction were El­mery Rayden at fullback, Don Miller at right half, Jim Crowley at left half, and Harry Struhldreher at quarterback. 
Rice's analogy of "The Four Horsemen" came from the four horses found in the book ofRevelation in the New Testament. The anal­ogy implies strength, unity and cohesion; similar were the attributes ofthese four young players. 
To continue with that immaculate season of 1924, the "Four Horsemen" continued to ride in glory. Onward the quartet galloped, defeat­ing the Cornhuskers ofNebraska 34-6. On the road to an undefeated season, the Fighting Irish of 1924 became Notre Dame's first na­tional champions after defeating Stanford in the Rose Bowl. 
Their careers at Notre Dame attracted na­tional fame and attention, yet leaving as graduating seniors, none could boast a future in professional football. The four men even­tually would be inducted into the National 
Collegiate Football Hall ofFame. My grandfat­
her was an all-American in 1924 and still holds 
the school career record for average yards per 
rush at 6.83. School records survive the others 
as well. Each ofthe horsemen pursued careers 
in college football coaching, with Elmer 
Layden filling the shoes ofthe infamous Knute 
Rockne until 1941. However, it was much 
more than their lives on the gridiron which 
made then men ofgreatness. 
I grew up not only with the legend but with the man. My grandfather, Don Miller, con­tinued to walk in those shoes ofgreatness, the shoes he stepped into some 62 years ago along with his three other companions and teammates. After finishing several years of coaching at Georgia Tech, he went on to get a law degree, and eventually assumed the Office of District Attorney in Cleveland, Ohio. Several years later, he became a district court bankruptcy judge. He and his wife Mae had a family ofsix, with five daughters and one son, Don Jr. Don Jr. was the only member of the ·immediate Miller family to attend Notre Dame, yet many ofthe same family line would come to find themselves under that same Gol-
IAJfTH/N A MlfT7l3R OF IA/CCI<S, YOU've GUTPK05PfLJ7VC BUYC/?S Ff?OM ~MV58JHS COMING TO YOUR $TlJJ;YO TO WATCH YOlJR PAINT/NOS IA/HILE THCY /JRY.
'\ 
den Dome. Miller graduates can be traced back, on a continuous line, from several years before my grandfather's nephew, Creighten Miller, who was an all-American halfback for the Irish in the 40s. The line has been long and continuous, until the point in 1986, where I find myself a junior at that same school upon which my grandfather brought greatness years ago. 
Shadowed by a love for Notre Dame, I have continually felt the presence of that spirit of the Fightin' Irish. I knew what college I wanted to attend even before I was able to ride a tricycle. Though many see Notre Dame as just another university among universities, there are just as many who hold it with a bit more esteem. For many, Notre Dame is and always will be a very special place with many special individuals. For me, the love for Notre Dame which encompassed me in my childhood, has only been reinforced and strengthened in my three years thus far. The memories I cherish and the friends I've made are things I attribute and hold as unique to Notre Dame. 
Many a time did I sit in my grandfather's haven of trophies, honors, awards and pictures and acquire the feeling that Notre Dame was different. Reminiscing aloud, he 

Garry Trudeau· 
f)JH/fT'$ THAT 
THere~ 
CALL.tf}? OFT/Me. 
I \ 
told of actual happenings here which we know of today by history books alone. I still have memories oftimes I spent here with him, for example, his being honored at half-time and post-game parties with all the players at the Morris Inn. Often, we fail to recognize or realize what many before us have done here at Notre Dame. Often, we forget their efforts, leaving many unrewarded. Now, I've stopped to take several moments to thank my grandfat­her and his three comrades of that immortal quartet, "the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame." These were men of greatness, at least in my eyes, who brought pride, respect and great­ness to the University of Notre Dame. These are qualities and attributes which we still 
pride ourselves on today. 
The Four Horsemen are all but gone now, with the last of the quartet, Jim Crowley, dying on Jan. 15, 1986. Though they are no longer here making appearances and giving speeches, their memories are still alive and vivid. Even today, with the ever-present "blue, gray October sky," the "Four Horsemen" still ride in glory. 
Dan Thompson is a junior pre­professional studies major at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 
"I don't know anything about music. In my line you don't have to." 
Elvis Presley (1935-1977) 
"ievvg_o~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a~y_,F_e_b_ru_ary~I_3_,_I9_s_6_-~p~ag~e--7 
P.O. BoxQ 
Now I'm not denying that the principle be­hind the housing clause Is a good one; ob­
ND community's help 
is greatly appreciated 
viously there is no nobler cause than the preservation of "Security, discipline and the Dear Editor: orderly operation of an educational institu­
During the early morning hours ofSaturday, tion." However good intentions are not al­Dec. 14, 198'), when my children and I were ·ways sufficient because, as we all know, the awaken by a banging on the door and screams ·road to hell Is paved with them. And the fact of "fire," only God knows what was actually ,remains that as long as we have to sign a con­going through my mind as we found our way tract forfeiting our right to privacy for the to safety. My main concern then and now privilege ofliving here, those good intentions remains the safety of my children, ages 10 and have gone astray. 
13. II took me a few days before I really got a HeatherBretter clear picture ofwhat else had happened to us. Farley Hall By the grace ofGod we were all alive and uni­njured, but we also had lost everything we 
Students need a place
owned. Seemingly, only those of you who at one 

"You Idiot, A;J~ Bob...2 RH.nJs ofGun R.-..,. in Me Phone Bo,..b,
to study late at night
time or another experienced a tragedy like ours would fully understand; however, the 
DearEdttor: 
~ .20 Mls" 
Notre Dame family-faculty, staff, students and The purpose of this letter Is not to point a probable that these infringements will con­friends, opened up your hearts as though each finger at the administration. I simply wish to 
tinue to be violated.
of you had once lived this experience. All of make a request -the basement of LaFortune, Corazon Aquino is the only "viable" solu­the financial contributions, clothing, food, 
the Nazz, should be kept open all night to tion. She not only represents her dead 
Wiping out dissenters 
furniture and Christmas gifts are greatly ap­
provide an all-night study area for the stu­husband "Ninoy" Benigno, but also all thosepreciated. I thank you fOk' all of your prayers 
dents. Filipinos who are sick and tired ofthe present could have bad effect and· concern. I do not fec:l that I can fully 
At Notre Dame, part of what we learn we system. She not only provides the credibility 
express my gratitude for all you have done for 
learn from our teachers. The other and needed to stabilize the government but also 
my children and me; we would just like to say 
equally important part of learning is what we gives to them the hope that there is a chance DearEditor: 
"thank you" from the bottom ofour hearts for learn from each other. Communication Is im­for a better tomorrow. with Marcos and his Rich Coglianese's article attacking the CBS your unselfish willingness to hc:lp us In our portant. This is the function of a student domineering wife Imelda at his side and the leftist news bias Is based on rwo fallacies: that 
time of need. I love all of you, and may God we account historical facts an
center, to provide the space for this essential ever present army, there is no chance. can for In blesseach and every one ofyou individually as communication. Granted the fact that Aquino has no prior "objective" way; and that It Is undesirable for well as collectivdy. 
LaFortune is that space and it belongs to us, political experience, it has been shown in society to have a so-called "leftist" nerwork. 
Cheryl, Theresa andjay Reed. 
the students. Uke many transfers, the Nazz American history that that is not always a re­
South Bend, IN. was one of the only ways I was able to make quirement. I believe that Martin Luther King, First of all, no institution (nor person) can friends. And what about the hundreds who Jr. showed to all ofus that one person can start give us an objective account ofhistory. We are Unwarranted searches live off campus? They need a place to meet as the wheel turning. He too fought for human inextricably imbedded in It through tradition, do we all. rights. Aquino is not alone in her fight. Many culture and language. To pretend we can ac­Presently, the Nazz serves this function, but suppon her but we may never know just how hieve a sort of angelic distancing from our
deny rights as citizens 
many because ofthe vote fraud taking place. very essence In order to repon "honestly" Is
studying and the need for others does not end Dear Editor: In conclusion, the result of the elction will plain nonsense. Even Coglianese's article Is
at 12:30. I do not feel this request is either
On page 2~ of DuLac: A Guide to Student determine whether it is a day ofcelebration or filled with the prejudices (In his case right­
"asking for too much" or difficult to ac­Ufe, Notre Dame assens that, "At the univer­complish. We had the Nazz before as an all­civil war. If Mar,:os wins, the latter will wing and fascist ) that he despises In others. sity, as In the nation and the states, generally probably result and more blood will be shed.
night study area, why not again? Ifyou agree, tfls rendering of the CBS/Fidel Castro love af­accepted values and manners are embodied in Things should be done for the good of the fair Is a clear example. Contrary to his belief, 
please join my petition to keep it open and
rules and regulations." One would assume people. Unfortunately, the good does notal­19'>7 Castro was a
In national hero. Evenfurnished all night. 
that the constitution of the United States and ways come out ahead as this election may moderate political organizations throughout
Pbtltp Manning
Its amendments embody those "generally ac­FisherHall prove. Nevertheless, the peowe have begun a Latin America supported him at that time ~­cepted values" cited by the University. How united front and this is a spirit Marcos cannot cause of his efforts to ovenhrow the then is the Notre Dame housing regulations tear down. American-based dictatorship ofBatista. clause -"The University reserves the right ... Lisa Yee
Marcos cannot destroy
to enter rooms without a search warrant for Regina Hall Second, the United States is a democracy. As the purpose of maintaining security, dis­Aquino's united front such, it is enriched by the debate springing cipline, and the orderly operation ofan educa­from the tension berween dl.lferent views
Much gratitude is owed 
tional institution"-justifiable when the fourth DearEditor: regarding the political ideal. This country has Jmendment to the Constitution of the United Hear Hear! I applaud Margarita Villalon's recognized in the past that no group has the
to Hickey and his staff 
States clearly states that it Is not? letter about the "free" elections taking place monopoly in insights regarding the solutions 
The fourth amendment states "The right of in the Philippine Islands. The situation there is DearEditor: to its many problems. That is the reason why the people to be secure in their persons, that of tense riots, vote fraud, and murder -I am writing this letter to express my dialogue-the arena from which sensible solu­houses, papers, and effects, against un­actions escalating in many towns and cities. gratitude to William Hickey, director of Uni­tions emerge -is Institutionalized and em­reasonable searches and seizures shall not be All of these actions show the people's discon­versity Food Services, and to his entire staff. As bodied in democracy. If a group In society violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon tent with the present form ofgovernment. Yet a member of Keenan Hall, I was very pleased were to believe that it had the privilege of probable cause, supponed by oath or affirma­there are some who stlll believe that Marcos to see the effort put forth in making a special pure objectivity and distancing to judge and tion, and particularly describing the place to or his military comrades should be in control dining hall event out of the opening night of interpret history, then there would ~ no be searched, and the persons or things to be because they are considered the most, I the Keenan Revue. That effort demonstrated need for this dialogue since it would possess seized." believeJim Lahren used the word,"viable" in­that Hickey and his staff are tuned into the stu­the only correct answers to political, social 
Even though Notre Dame Is a private in­dividual or group. Is Lahren saying that it is dents of this campus. It is very commendable and economic problems. stitution, It has the obligation to uphold those still possible for an iron-handed governing that the food service takes such a genuine in­irrevocable rights. After all, if the University body to rule the Philippines? I hope not. Presi­terest in the things that are important to us. As I was reading Coglianese's article, I expects, as it states in DuLac, that students are dent Ferdinand Marcos' regime, which has On a mQre general level, I think we are very glimpsed at the column's name, "the way we 

to abide by those values which are so essential ruled the islands for 20 years (and he calls his fonunate to benefit from Hickey's talent at were." Yes! Maybe he does possess the angelic 
to citizenship, then shouldn't we expect the party the "New Society Movement?"), has managing the food service. Many other col­privilege of having the only right answer. University to uphold those same values? If It proved itself to be inefficient and insensitive leges and universities are served by the in­May~ we shouldget rid ofall the leftist germs doesn't, then It Is blatantly denying our rights to the people's needs. famous SAGA in their dining halls. The that pollute the American Way by showing us as citizens both ofNotre Dame and the United The econtJmy ofthe Phlllppines is dropping benefitsofa privateservice, especially the one injustices, poverty, death and guys In black ., States. faster than a rock in a bucket ofwater. Where we have now, are many. Hickey has made beards leading revolutions against U.S. puppet , 
There is an obvious inconsistency In the is all the money going? Only Marcos knows. some enormous contributions to the quality regimes in little countries. But remem~r the , principles the University claims to support That, unfortunately, is not the only problem. ofstudent life by promoting and making Uni­trade-off: he might have us living in a world ., and the ones It actually upholds. Think about The infringement on the rights ofthe people is versity Food Services part of many student where only Big Brother has the correct solu­, it. Do you like the thought ofanyone, be It the evident. Lahren fails to mention the human events. tion. And those who dissent? Well, they're just ., South Bend Police, University Security, or the aspect of the election. For years Marcos has Hickey's concept of service to students leftist rubbish. But perhaps we should wonder l 
Federal Bureau of Investigation Itself, being been violating the basic human rights of all should be adopted as a model for all sectors of about "the way we will be" with such reason­
able to infringe on your right to privacy wit­individuals. The result of this election wlll student service at this university. We owe ing. I'm sure we'll have Mass In Latin. Right, ~ hout a warrant? I certainly don't. Notre Dame determine whether or not these wrongs wll1 much gratitude to Hickey and his hard­Mr. Right? is our home, and nothing should deny us the becorrected. It has been shown that Marcos is working staff. 
rights we hold as citizens of the United States a failure when it come to the subject ofhuman john]. Cerabino Edgardo Tenretro even if the University is a private Institution. rights. If he wins this election, it is most Keenan Hall Notre Dame graduate student 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo AdVertising Manager . . . ................... Jim Hagan The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of AdVertising Manager .................... Anne M. CuiHgan
News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloug, Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager... . ................ Mark B. Johnson adm•n•strat•on of either instill. lion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager... . .......... John A. Men neil s•ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v•ews of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the commun•ty and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor .................. ...... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, •s encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wo# Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
A special place 
at Notre Dame 
Kathy Martin and visitors in this respect has con­features staffwriter stantly increased." Devotion to Mary and the Immac­" Jfl could go to the Grotto now ulate Conception was quite popular 
then I think I could sing .... in the nineteenth cenrury, when That Grotto is the rock to which my France was recovering from the life is anchored. Do the students effects of the French Revolution ever appreciate what they have, and the anti-Christian Napoleonic while they have it? I know I never era. It seemed that Father Sorin was did." These were the words of trying to make Notre Dame the alumnus Dr. Tom Dooley in his final great Catholic university, and he letter to Father Hesburgh before his liked to duplicate and bring monu­death from cancer in the early ments that impressed him in 1960s. Europe to America. Sacred Heart 
The Notre Dame Grotto behind Church is also a replica ofa French Sacred Heart Church holds a special Cathedral. place in the hearts of the Notre It was decided to build the Dame-Saint Mary's community. Grotto "behind the presbytery, in a Scarcely a student passes through little wooded dell" which was al­the challenges, dilemmas, and tri­ready at the turn ofthe century "a umphs offour college years here favorite walking, resting, and without taking refuge at one time or meditating place" for students and another in the peaceful silence ofa religious. moment ofreflection before Construction was made possible hundreds ofglowing candles which in 1896 by the endowment ofFat­are special prayers to the Virgin her Thomas Carroll, a former theol­Mary. It is a part ofthe Notre Dame ogy student from Oil City, Pa. experience and tradition. Boulders ofunhewn rock weighing 
The Grotto is modeled closely as much as two or three tons were after the Grotto ofOur Lady of brought from nearby farms of the Lourdes in France where Mary Holy Cross community. appeared to the young St. Ber­FatherJohn DeGroote brought nadette and countless miracles of back from Lourdes the black stone healing have since been reported. which was set in the Grotto for As early as September 1877, it was pilgrims and visitors to kiss. The 
tion, and the spot is marked now by
announced in the Notre Dame statue ofMary was dedicated on the spring ofclear water, when digging sheets. He wrote, "The spot chosen Scholastic magazine that "it is the Feast ofOur Lady ofSnow, August the foundations for the rocks, just an artificial water fountain. was not a 'beautiful dell' but an old intention ofthe Very Reverend 12, 1896. to the left ofthe Grotto, almost midden where everything from old Father Sorin to erect a fac-simile of There is an interesting twist to exactly the same spot as the However, an contrary account of shoes and tin cans or what have you the celebrated Grotto ofLourdes.... the legend ofthe consruction. Ac­miraculous fountain which sprung these reports is recorded by Father were thrown -just a dump heap.... He says that ever since his first visit cording to early issues ofthe up at Lourdes and has never run Joseph Maguire, of Moreau Semi­The 'spring' actually did appear and to Lourdes in 1873 his resolution to Scholastic and the University's early dry. Supposedly, the flow ofwater nary, in a 1953 letter correcting the old Father Letourneau felt it was a satisfy the wishes ofpious pilgrims publicity sheets, workers struck a gradually lessened during construe-Notre Dame historical publicity miracle since it appeared almost at 
ND Grotto commemorates Bernadette's vision 
T 
She recited the·rM!qf as the Lady When Bernadette brought him a GERTIE WIMMER let the betds.ruatbrough her message from the Lady asking for features copy edttor lingers. The rosary ended, the vi­·processions, he said bluntly that sion dissappeared. first he must know with whom he heGrotto we now have here at To Bernadette's astonishment, was dealing. Notre Dame is modelled after ·her sister and friend had seen not­It was on March 25, at the 16th one in Lourdes, France. Despite the hing. She asked them to keep her ilppearance, -there were to be two popularity ofthe Notre Dame fac­vision a secret, but Marie told her more -that the Lady told Ber­simile, the story behind the original, mother, who scolded them both J1adette in the local dialect, "I am the story ofa young french girl and refused to allow Bernadette to the Immaculate Conception." named Bernadette, is seldom heard. rerurn to the cave. After the girl This message, was not under­
On Feb. 11, 1858, Bernadette pleaded, however, the mother stood by Bernadette herself, and Soubirous set offwith her sister ~elented, and two days later, after only recently proclaimed as a Marie and her friend, Jeanne Sunday Mass, they set out again. dogma. A commission was ap­
Abadie, to gather firewood from the Theybecame the first Lourdes pointed by the bishop ofTarbes to common land by the banks ofthe pilgrims, these four to five children examine the phenomenon. After river Gave. A sickly girl, Bernadette armed with bottles ofholy water. four years ofpatient investigation, 
lagged behind her companions who The Lady appeared again, and the its finding was that "the apparition had already waded across the cold same thing happened. The follow­.which called herself'the Immac­waters ofa shallow stream that ing Thursday the children were ltilate C.onceptior.· which Ber­separated them from the grotto of accompanied by two adults. This nadette both saw and heard is none 
Massabielle. time the Lady gav,. ~::madette a other than the most Holy Virgin." 
Bernadette was removiniS i:ter 'message. She wished Bernadette to Bernadette was now so famous shoes and stockings when she heard visit the grotto for fifteen days, that privacy became impossible. the roar ofa great wind and felt it promising that she would make her After an interval oftwo years spent on her cheeks. Seeing that the trees happy, but not in this world. dealing with a daily stream of 
riearby were motionless, she At the sixth appearance, on visitors, many ofwhom were thought that she must have been February 21st, Bernadette con­merely curious, although some dreaming and went on with her vinced the skeptic, Dr. Dozous, a were·even hostile, she went as a preparations to cross the stream. boarder to the Convent ofthe
prominent physician in Lourdes But once again Bernadette heard who had come to investigate, that Sisters ofNevers. She remained 
the rushing wind, and finally she was both sane and sincere. Dr. there for eight years and finally looking up she saw a girl no larger Dozous became her champion, and entered the mother house where, than herselfbathed in a bright light later was the first doctor to look onJuly 29, 1866, she took the habit 
in a niche of the grotto. after the sick at Lourdes. as Marie Bernard. The girl was dressed in a pure The matter had now spread far Lourdes and its continuing 
white robe with a sky blue girdle ,and wide and was causing grave miracles have in a sense obscured knotted in the middle, reaching .concern to the town officials. Ber­the life ofa remarkable saint. Her down to her feet, which were bare, nadette was bullied, cajoled, and life was a hard one. In her own 
and which rested on golden roses. cross-examined, but_she sruck to words, "she was ground like a grain Over the girl's head, and reaching her story. ofcorn." The Reverend Mother and to her shoulders, she wore a white It was on the ninth visitation that the Mistress ofthe Novices were as a broom, to remove dust. When '1879 at the age ofthirty-six. Her 
veil. In her hands she clasped a the spring appeared and with it the strict to the point ofharshness and the work is done, the broom is put last words were, "Holy Mother, rosary ofwhite beads threaded on a first ofthe miraculous cures. took every opportunity to humiliate behind the door and left." Mother ofGod, pray for me a poor golden chain. The Catholic Church had been her. After eight years, seven ofwhich sinner." 
Bernadette went down on her cautious from the start, resisting Bernadette suffered too from were spent as an assistant nurse in Bernadette was buried in the 
knees, clutching her rosary. She strong pressure from believers in constant ill health, but she realized the infirmary, and the last ofwhich convent chapel at Nevers, where :ried to make a sign ofthe cross but this miracle of Lourdes. The Abbe that the healing spring was not for was a true martyrdom -"The more her body is exposed to full view. trembled too much to raise her Peyramale -'a gruffbear ofa man' -her. She accepted everything, pain I suffer, the more I shall unite She was beatified in 1925, and hand. As the Lady smiled and be­had forbidden his clergy to have expressing her position with the myselfwith His heart"-she died on canonized on December 8th, 1933. ckoned, Bernadette lost her fear. :anything to do with the grotto. simple phrase, "The Virgin used me the Wednesday ofEaster week Her feast day is April 16th. 



-
the same spot as the one at Lourdes. But wiser people closed It up so as to prevent wild rumors regarding it. It did not gradually 'lessen."' 
Father Daniel R. Jenky, Rector of Sat·red Heart Church, described the Gratto today as a place where "even non-church-goers feel they can go to to be quiet and pray." He said that the atmosphere Is "unselfconscious and unpreten· tlous, where normal, active people can share faith without it being a big deal." 
''PeopIe don't 
pray to Mary 
like they do to 
God. God is 
God., but with 
Mary, we ask 
her to pray with 
us to God.'' 
-Father Jenky 
FatherJenky noted the reaction ofa visiting Canadian priest to the enormous number ofstudents who came to the Grotto to pray, "At Notre Dame, there is still the atmo­sphere that gives people permission to pray without looking like they're doing anything weird." 
"It's funny to watch the tourists," FatherJenky continued. "They come with cameras, but then they don't take the picture. They realize It is more a place of prayer." He said that the he receives many letters and plaques of thanksgiving to mark 
The Obterver/Hanneo Hlocker 
"It's a good feeling to let God take 
care of my worries." 
·Francine Torres 
"On a cold winter night, it's one of the few places you can go to be by yourself, yet never feel alone." 
-John Bruening 
"It symbolizes that element that sets Notre Dame apart from other universities." 
·Jane Heisel 
.:Among other things, it Is a place of quiet, and a place that Is always available to students, faculty, anybody else that wants to stop in from town, for example. I think it's a place where people know that prayer Is welcome and devotion is welcome. To see somebody kneel In prayer, to have two students, boy and girl, kneel down next to one another and pray ... I think Is a very special type ofsetting. It's not quite the same as the church, which Is enclosed; this Is outdoors... I think It's very special because of that. You stop In very briefly and go on." 
. Fr. Ron Wasowski 
The Grotto 
What does the Grotto mean to you? 
Complied by Doug Anderson 

"I think the Grotto is a great place to go and be alone. It's too bad it doesn't get used during the semester the way it does the week offinals." 
·Joseph Wood 
prayers answered every year, but he 
cannot accept them. "The walls 
would be completely covered," he 
explained. 
The Grotto is different from a 
church in a theological sense. 
"People don't pray to Mary like they 
do to God," Father Jenky said. "God 
Is God, but with Mary, we ask her to 
pray with us to God. She is a symbol 
offaith, the first disciple." 
She is more than a symbol offaith 
to University President Father Hes­
burgh. He usually attends the 
Grotto every day. "I really believe 
that Our Lady watches over this 
place. I feel I ought to stop in and 
say thanks, and also pray that she 
keeps watching over this place," he 
said. "I usually get down there in 
the wee hours of the morning when 
I leave the office," he continued, 
"There is almost always someone 
down there, rain, sleet, or snow." 
The Grotto adds a unique touch to the Notre Dame campus in com­parison with other schools. Father Hesburgh said, "Every university has a place where students hang out for their social life, libraries where they study, and playing fields where they play sports, but how many have a praying place?" Although there are thiny chapels in the dorms and elsewhere on campus, the popular place to pray is the Grotto. 
Student response to the Grotto from the freshmen to the seniors is usually universal. Senior Gretchen Wroblewski remarked, "It is what Notre Dame Is all about. A lot ofus come here for careers, but one of my priorities is growing spiritually. The Grotto is a place to put aside classes and grades, an outward sign ofwhat life's all about." 
Freshman Kathleen Flynn said the Grotto makes her feel a part of Notre Dame. "I can stop on my way home from the 'brar. It makes me 
The Observer/File photo 
The Grotto ofOur Lady ofLourdes where St. Bernadette saw her vision ofthe Virgin Mary. 

The Observer/ Hennes Hecker 
"Even though I'm not Catholic, I 
find that that Is a place where I can 
find sanctuary to pray." 
-Karla McNair 
"I just spent my whole night in the library, basically, with the books. 
It's good to get away from that and come someplace that's quiet, some­place where you can think about 
things that are more Important than your studies: the goal ofyour studies, why you're here at Notre 
Dame, the underlying reasons for everything. It's a place where everybody comes, and I guess that makes It something that I'd want to come to. It's just not the candles, it's just not the statues or things Jlke that, but I guess since it's just set aside as a special place, it becomes a special place for everyone." 
-Rob Raphael 
feel complete. It's not hokey· religious, just quiet and personal." 
The Grotto has long been the hosting place ofmany Notre Dame traditions. The Rosary is said there every day at 6:45p.m., even in the winter at temperatures of twenty below zero, by the Holy Cross community. There are alumni reunions and countless retreats held there. 
Also, the Grotto hosts the last visit ofthe seniors after a prayer service at Sacred Heart. The Glee Club sings, and the seniors recdve 
A scene many night visitors to the Grotto are familiar with. 
"The Grotto is special because it Is 
the spiritual heart of Notre Dame."· 
Martin McNulty t!d 
"The natural beauty down there, and also because ofTom Dooley's letter · it's a very, very moving letter... so for those two reasons it is a very special place to pray." 
-John Huebl 

The Obaerver/Henneo Hecker 
"I think the Grotto is special be· cause it gives students a secluded place where they can just go by themselves and get away from the overbearing power ofthe college Itselfand where they can sit and be at peace." 
· Pat Leavell 
The OblerverlHanna Hacker 
"I think the Grotto is special be· "The Grotto happens to be one of cause it is a place to escape to when the most beautiful places on all the pressures ofschool and campus. It's a great place to get people around you and situations away from the hype ofcollege life." get to be too much." 
-Pat Cooke -Suzanne Hammer 
their final blessing before they leave the University. "When it is over, the seniors just stand there for a long time," FatherJenky said, "Nobody wants to move." 
Due to the September 23 fire, caused by as many as I500 burning candles, which substantially damaged the interior ofthe stone structure, rocks ofthe Grotto have been chipped and scaled to give it a slightly new filce from the one it showed ninety years ago. 
The fiery reds and soft greens of the Ivy will grow back in time. The Grotto has survived almost a cen­tury ofNotre Dame history as an outward symbol of the peaceful refuge students and religious have found right on campus. 
Whether illuminated In sunshine, blanketed in white snow, or softly glowing with the flickering of candles In the night, this special place is a hallmark ofthe Notre Dame tradition. As Doctor Dooley wrote, do we students appreciate what we have, while we have It? 
"I run just about every night, and the Grotto is a nice place to end up 
... thank God to be mle to run and ..say a few prayers. It's nice and quiet 
... some good loneliness." 
. Mark Bridenstine 
"I think the Grotto's special be· cause it gives us a peaceful place to come after a hectic day ofschool." 
-John Sommerdyke 

The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
ND Rugby Club workouts for anyone interested in playing Spring rugby will begin Monday at 4 p.m. on the second floor by The Monogram Room of the ACC. No experience is necessary, but all attending should be dressed to run. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4761.-Tbe Observer 
An NVA scuba diving course will be offered 
beginning Saturday from 4 -7 p.m.. Interested persons should bring S75 to the NVA office in the ACC before Friday at 5 p.m. For more information call NVA at 239-5100.-Tbe Observer 
Synchronized swimmers are asked to attend an organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in the classroom ofthe Rolfs Aquatic Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. For more information call 283-5983. -Tbe Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday. For more information call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 239-5100.-Tbe Observer 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -Tbe Observer 
-
Women's race heats up 
BP stays on top in inter hall hoops 
ByKATHLEEN McKERNAN In the Walsh-PW game, Walsh Sports Writer started with an early 10-0 lead at the end of the first quarter. PW 
While unbeaten Breen-Phillips recovered in the second quarter to chalked up another one for the wins end the half trailing only 13-10, but column without stepping on the Walsh pulled away in the second court, Farley, Lewis, and Walsh half. preserved their three-way tie for second with victories in women's in­Walsh's Mary Ellen Mileski and terhall basketball last Sunday. Laura Gleason each had eight points 
Breen-Phillips raised its record to in the victory while Cathy Schaefer 4-0 with a forfeit victory over Farley contributed 10 to PW's losing effort. 'B,' who dropped to 1-3. The rest of the schedule followed with Farley A three-guard offense led defeating Badin, Lewis 'A' dominat­Pasquerilla East over Lyons. Captain ing Lewis 'B,' 37-11, and Walsh Colleen Donnelly paced PE with 13 beating Pasquerilla West, 35-24. points while the other guards 
Boosters 
continued from page 16 
volved in recruiting violations and other scandals in recent years. 
In 1980, five schools from the Pac 

10 -USC, UCLA, Arizona State, 
Oregon and Oregon State -were dis­
qualified from the conference cham­
pionship for recruiting violations in 
football. According to The Los An­
geles Times, one booster at UCLA al­
legedly helped players obtain cars, 
stereos, clothes and airline tickets 
free or at large discounts, "and may 
even have financed abortions for 
girlfriends." 
Another recruiting incident was 
exposed at Texas Christian Univer­
sity in the fall of 1985. Head Football 
Coach jim Wacker suspended seven 
players, including All-America run­
ning back Kenneth Davis, for accept­
ing improper payments from 
boosters. Davis said the reason he 
chose to attend TCU was because of 
offers made in writing by boosters, 
which amounted to a guaranteed 
S38,000 in cash and goods. 
Charlie Dierker, the associate sports information director at TCU, claims that the University's athletic department was not at fault in the incident. 
"The school's position remains the same," he says. "What occurred was the doing of certain individuals independently. As far as we know, the only people who knew anything about the incident were the violators, some of the coaches, and the players themselves. 
"The football office has taken steps to eliminate anyone from the outside taking part in illegal ac­tivities. In the past they welcomed recruiting help from our two booster clubs through letters and phone calls. Now only coaches and select individuals will be allowed to recruit." 
Nevertheless, boosters around the country continue to tamper where they should not-offering pay­ments to college athletes and often arranging for grades to be juggled. And while the scandals will certainly follow, Notre Dame has chosen to stay away. 
Alumni donations at the Univer-Lauren Romeo and Colleen O'Connor each scored 10. 
"We were behind by six points at one point in the first half," Donnelly noted. "Probably the key to our coming back was the full-court press." 
Center Kathleen McDavid's tough defense underneath also was in­strumental in PE's victory. Accord­ing to Donnelly, the 5-10 freshman played extremely well. 
Lewis 'A' soundly defeated the 'B' team in the in-hall rivalry. Junior center Moira McGrath, who measures in at 6-4, led all scorers with eight points for Lewis 'A.' 
sity ofNotre Dame go directly to the general fund, and the Athletic Department submits a budget in the same way as the other departments of the school. Only in a special case, such as the building of the aquatics center and the new indoor tennis facility, would the University rely on additional funds. 
"An endowment fund would only be pursued if the University iden­tified an athletic need," says Con­klin. "All fund-raising is done by professionals. It would be a Univer­sity program and no outside group would raise the money." 
By .) keeping fund-raising activities under the control of University offi­cials, Notre Dame appears to have found the answer to the booster problem. Other colleges have managed to combine independent boosters and university control successfully. 
But one fact remains. With the growth of college sports into a big business and the competitiveness in recruiting players, boosters will continue to play a major role in the athletic programs ofmany colleges. 
The Ohsen·er :\orn: Ddmt· offiu:. hKalt"ll on lht· lhrrll floor of l.a~orlum· SIUdt·m Ct'nlt·r. JtT<'PI' da\.~il'it-d adn·ni"nl( from') am umil i p m. :'\tonda\ 
lhroul(h Fnda~ 7'he I Jhserr·er ~aim \tan·~ offin· IotaIt'd on lht· 1hrrll floor ot 
llal(I(Jr Collt'l(l: <t'nlt'r. J<Tt'pr-tla"itkJ, !rom 12 ~~~ p m umrl ~ p m. \ton­
lla\' lhoul(h ~nlla\ lkadhnt· lor nt·xr-lla\ <la'"tit·tb " ~ p m .-\11 da"rtit·J, 
mu" ht· prt'pard.t·nhn 10 pt:r~on or h\ mJrl <harl(t'" I 0 t'l'nh pt·r tl\"t't·hardl"­ll'r' ·r da\' 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing Avllilllble 287-40112 
TYPING 
CALLCHM 
234-1117. 
TYPING -Pick-up & delivery on campus. Wll check apetllng. Qullllty u-anteed by a prof-.lonat. SUSAN-287-8257 
ATTN: ITUDENR Doloree Francia typing l8fVice phone number change 2n-s131 1 ............................................................. .. THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE hal great 1Pfr. lor VALENTINE'S DAYI Open 1o-5, Mon-Sat. Behind Fatima R-tCenter. 
Pandorll'l Books wanla 1o buy and lr8de boolca. Sell your paperllllclca lor Cll8h or lr8de lor 40 PERCENT. Pandorll'l Booka 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Pllir of wire rim ut-ee In black caM on Fri. 31 or Sat. 1. tl found, pteue catt 272-3823 or 2n-7586. 
Duelo my "car....,..."(l'd hate lothlnk aomeone llole them), t !oat my brown Nf. ting gtovee 111 lhe new pool locker room 1M! w.~<. PIMM catt 3810 nyou have found them.Thanka.God wil love you tor it. 
LOST: Gold necklace with a ac.a In 11 h..r, aomewhere near North Dining Hal. U'a very lmportanl to mel Hfound. pteue cal Kym, 2147. 
LOST: NAVY BlUE LADIES' COAT. Mt$­TAKENL Y TAKEN AT TRt-MIL BALL.. PLEASE CALL284-5532. 
FOUND: Sal of keya and eamnga at ACC n.ct< on Sunday. Cllll 284-3010 lo claim. 
LOST: MEN'S N.D. GOLD RING with inl­tiall TA.D. In men·a room on 111 floor Stepan Chemiatry Building (north aide). PIMM cat! 3556 
L.oat: A pair of large black leather gtovee in Nleu. Sc. on 217. PIMM cat! 3528 
LEFT aEHtND IN 206 OR 303 Cuahlng on Monday, be-n 9:55-10:05, one 4 18Ction notebook conlalnlng lilt my notee. t kindll need II bllck Ike la1. II you could help me find 11. il would be grelllly ap­prec:lllled. catt24n or2476aller11,­lor Kevin. Or jull lum ~ In 10 L.oat and Found. 
LOST: MEN'S N.D. ClASS RING ON MONDAY, FEB 10 IN FIRST FLOOR MENS ROOM OF STEPAN CHEMISTRY HALL. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN AQUA STONE AND BEARS THE INI­TIALS TAO '86. IF FOUND PLEASE CALJ.. TOMAT3556. 
llalen: From my atudio In the 1111 building, an 181124 painting depicling an abelrllcl figure on 11 black background. "--11 of­fered lor return of painting or information reautting in ita return. 
Call Paul Mclean 289-5198 
FOR RENT 
Semi-lumiahed houae good neighbor­hood alter 4-255-3684/2n-3604. 
2-bdrm. apt. Call272-4613. 
WANTED 
................................................................ 
OVERSEAS JOIIS..Ium,...., yr.round. Europe, S.Amw., Au..,.._, A81a. All lleldll. 11100-2000 mo. .....-... F-Info. wrtte IJC, PO ax ~N-4. eor-ctet _., CA 12821. 
LOOKING FOR A CAREER We have found in lhe pall lhat college atudenla and gradualea excel In our in­duatry becauae they ere ambltiOUI and goal oriented. National recreation­company Ia looking tor a lew good people to alall our 1986 lalee Nne. High Income potential-excellent opporlunlty lor ad­vancement. Call Mr. Stevenaon at 616­695-3873. 
Rldtn needed to BUFFAL0.2/14-2/16.CaA Mllrk at 1728. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MADISON, WISC. 2/14 -2/17 CALL LISA 284-4415 
FOR SALE 
Macinloah Syslem lor SALE Grea!Deall! Cllll Jim 1097 
TICKETS 
Need GAl lor Depaul or Dayton gamea. Cllll Chad 3884. 
Delperately need 4-8 atud & GA tix lo Dayton game. Pr-cal Amy at x1296 H you hava any lor lale & I'M be forever grateful lo you. 
Need Gulor Depaul game cal Jall2248 
Paulna Porizkova and ENe Macpher.on wiN do anything lor 2 Ga'a lor the Dayton game, cat! John at 2180 
P'-hetplll Need one. juat one DePaJI atudent ticket!! Wll pay$$. Friend driving many milea lor game. Cllll Tracy 4241. 
NEED DAYTON TIX.CALL DOUG 2467 
NEED DAYTON TIX. 2 STUD. & 2 G.A.a OR 4 G.A.a. CALL CHRI$-1135. 
Wiling 10 ~e fl,.l born child or $$ tor 1 DePaul G.A. Call Mike 1028. 
PERSONALS 
...b··;;;;~;·;;~~:·'H~;·;;;;;~;;·;;·;;;;~ 
Mveaia single-handing. 
To God obscenity Ia nol unawered llaah. II is expoaed intention. Nllkednees ia jull 11 atele of heart. Wu Adam any noore unclothed when he diiiCOVered lhllme?Yes. 
-Cetvin MINer, 
P.8.: 
·I miuecl your smile yesterday ... 
T.B. 
OM HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CAIIttY OUT TO I A.... U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Lovt,. catholic -.pie-ato llllopt an lnt.nt.lt you kn-Illanr-who ta conetderl.. plect... child .... ~ tlon, ....Cllll coiKt (217) 317-u?l after7p.m. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS­LONDON, IRELAND, SCOTI.AND. PARIS (MAY 21-JUNE 20). PARIS. GERMANY, SWITZ, ROME (JUNE 15­JULY 14). COURSES IN BIO, BUEC, HtST, MUSIC. SOC, ITALIAN. MEETING FEB 17, 7:00 RM 348 MADELEVA. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284· 4480 OR 272-3726. 
YOUNG TIIAVELI.EitB NEWIILETTEJtt tnctudeii:BOO no.; ll'IIVet partner a.vice;leaturea on exotic OVEMEAS budget b'IIVet, work, atudyl Send chack ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O.ilox 3887, New Haven. CT. 06525 
HEY QUYs-r..pon. hall beMI GREAT 
Ill I -Ill Ill JOU fiW mv-lf 1-catl 231-1225 .... 
tnformatl-.ak ,... 01111 
Thank you St. Jude -EM 
Thank you St. Jude lor watching over me and my family. ·PAG 
Miranda, Another mymed couple! Hke that, and we'Nget Routind lo do your part. Ferdinand 
Hungry? CaA YELLOW SUBMARINE 111 272-HIKE. Delivery Hou,.: 5prn-12am Monday-Thuradlly; 5prn-2llm Friday; 3prn-1am Salurdlly; 4pm·10pm Sunday . 
watch lor the iriah aurler -ch lor the lrlah aurler walch for the irlah aurler 
Hewanta-.....1 
A rich alumnus needs 2 tickela (atudenl or GA) lor lhe Dayton game In March. He's an engineer wiling lo pay big bucka lo aee ua pound the Flyera into the court! 
c.tl Mary Ellen 111 283-3855 or leave 11 meaage al 239-5303. 
THE WORD OF THE WEEK: 
NOVATION 
t NEED YOU-MATT 
Dl FOREVER,FOREVER,FOREVER SOPHOMORES : Bowling nigh! al Beacon Bowl. Thia Thuradlly night, leaving from library circle at 8:30, bowling begina at 9:00. Coel ia $2. 75. lndudelllWO gam• and ahoea. Any ? or need a ride, cat! 239-5225. 
"A wet campuala a happy campu1" 
Take your Valentine 1o Florida !II Tllke your Vllentine 1o Florida !II Win a 111p at lhe MS Sl Valentine'a Day 
Da~ce 
Flidlly 8:30 lo 1 :00 AM Stepan Cenler F~ lo the fi,.l100 girla !!I Dancing-Food-Gamea Admiulon $3 direclly lo MS 
DiMon proclaims National Di-Day-The Men 
Tone: Hope you're up lor "ice aeam" lonighl! Love, Mike 
RAMBEAR STILL UVUIII 
HEY ED TRIFONEI Call Your Coullin-She DoeanT Have Your New Phone Number! 
Words to Nve by: 
Novation 
Privity 
lteplevln 
Come See FALSTAFF & HAL In Chicego on Feb.20 Tickela $20.00 in 309 O'Shag. 
Film Bull? Mullic Lover? Wrile lor SCHOLASTIC Catl239-7419be-n 10 and5 
QUOTE OF THE DAY: 
Better lo be bankrupl ethically !han financially. 
Lui ditch try for a ride to and/or from Cleveland thla weekend-WIN pay good$· ,_..catt Dan at 2288 
Boph-: Come ro lhe RATHSKEL­LAR thla Sunday 10 walch NO beal Duke on big acreen tv.! au­avllit.ble(S2)·Slgn up with dorm repa or atop by Soph office lor11 map. Tip­oll1 :00. GREAT beverages and food wiH be aold! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MARY KAY! HAPPY BIRTHDAY. MARY KAY! You geeld You IUrd! You goober! You lilly! You aweely! Havea•uperday!!! 
To my favorile driver from the DELTA 88 TOUR·11186.... 
"I love you beat, you're nol Hkelllt thereat You're there when I need you You're there when I need. I'm gonna need you." 
Atwaya thinking of you 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY IIARC 0. MLLEJI THE KEENAN HALL LOVE DOG MADE 20 YESTERDAY!!! CALL HIM AT 3234 OR STOP BY 115/113 KEENAN AND WISH HIM A BELATED BIRTHDAY. 
Di'a lUI name ia nor Romano ? 
IIAII'I WINTER FUTIVAL IS COIJ. 
lNGIII 
FEB. 24·MARCH 1 BEACH PARTY-SKI TRIP-BOWLING­ICESKATING UNDERGRAD NilE AT SENIOR BAR-AND MOREl 
VALENTINE'S DANCE: Logan Center ia holding a Valentine'a dance Friday from 7:30-10:00. Newvotunteera ere welcome. 
RAIIBEAR: STILL DEAD 
Thal'a right. Rambear'a stiR dead. Despite other reports lo the contrary. 
ANN VON MURPHY THIS IS FOR YOU SINCE YOU WON'T BE HERE HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY EARLY LOVE, MOUSE VON KARLE 
Tea lor 10, 10 lor lea, me lor men, and men (Joe) lor me 

The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 11 
Belles face St. Francis tonight 
Radke leads SMC basketball team 
Grace remains undefeated in inter hall hockey 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Acoach's dream. That is how Saint Mary's basket· ball coach Marvin Wood describes 
his  team's  leading  scorer,  sop­ 
homore Tammye Radk e.  
"Tammye  is  a  real  class  

representative for Saint Mary's Col· lege both on and off the court," says W<XJd, who coached Radke on an AAU team (which placed fifth na­tionally) the summer before they both came to Saint Mary's. 
"Tammye ha.~ a super attitude, is consistent and Is a very unselfish player. Her range as an outside shooter is outstanding. She's one of the two best shooters at our level of play." 
Currently averaging 16 points a game, Radke is shooting 5 I percent from the field which is second best in NAJA District 21. She Is also an ob­vious team player, pa.~sing out HI as­sists thus far in I 7 games. 
Last season, Radke was one of two freshmen ranked nationally· in the NAJA for free-throw percentage. In one I 5-game spurt in her first season as a Belle, Radke connected on 85 percent of her free throws, a mere 44-of-53 from the line. She finished her freshman campaign fourth in free-throw percentage and sixth in field-goal percentage in the league. 
Radke says she doesn't really place that much importance on her individual accomplishments but knows that when her performance is down, it affects the team. 
"I'm upset If I'm shooting poorly," 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
In the battle of the interhall h<ll"key unbeatens, Grace (5-0) created scoring opportunities through sharp goaltending and ef­fective forechecking to edge Cavanaugh/ Howard, by the score of 4-2 last week. 
"Goaltender Phil Coghlan had his best game of the season, stopping many scoring attacks," said Grace player-coach Jim Radaczak. "Left wing Sam Dempsey, Lance Williams and the team as a whole were very effective." 
The scoring for Grace was evenly­

Queen's Castle & The Knights $5 student $8.50 complet cut style 
MINUtES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women Included tool 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minute• ... Not Hoare Ironwood & St. Road 23 (AcroSI From Martin'•) 
EASY RIDER 
TO AXD FROM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~ 
10844 McK•nley Hwy Osceola .,1 
674-6993 ·1 155-3068 1''11111111'
'11
or call your Travel AQenl I 
~IIUUI 
Ill '!!:muiiHIIWI 
~..~ 1/111 111101 
I ~~~~~· !IIIN ltl 
11u1 e1· 'Jllllllllllllllllr.'
lllllllllllilllltll -h1•1111!1'111 111 II 
balanced as Dempsey, Joe McBride Mike Marino, and Steve Bishop each netted one tally, Marino with the game-winner. But it was the Grace team quickness and defensive pressure that created scoring oppor­tunities in the form of many shots on goal. 
"Cavanaugh/Howard played us closer than anyone we have seen yet," said Radaczak. "We won on the heart ofour team, not one man had a bad game. Because Mike Prender­gast, who had two goals against Oil­Ion, was injured, some guys double-shifted to take up the slack." 
Among those who pulled extra duty were Drew Spesard, Dan says the Regina resident, who was her high school's female athlete of the year. "If I'm taking bad shots it hurts the team. 
"I want to play the best I can to help our team win. I always try to give I I 0 percent. I'm the most excited when we win and the most disappointed when we lose." 
After finishing 4-16 last year, Radke would have to label it a pretty disappointing season. But according to Radke, the team's final record is no reflection of the coaching it recieves from Wood. 
"He's an excellent coach," says Radke. "I think he teaches more than basketball, which is something you don't find a lot in coaches today. 
"All his teams have been classy. Everyone ha.~ good sportsmanship. This is really important, especially at Saint Mary's where we have such a high standard." 
One of the consistent dis­advantages Saint Mary's teams have had In the past Is their lack ofheight. 
"For her size, she has been an out­standing rebounder," says Wood of the 5-6 guard. 
Radke obviously hasn't let her lack of height affect her play and sometimes even likes to pretend that she's a little taller than the roster says she is. 
"I love it when I'm going in for a rebound and catch the ball and shoot it without coming back down on the floor," explains Radke. "It makes me feel tall-which I'm not." 
Teammate Kris Pantelleria, a high school opponent from nearby Ben­ton Harbor, Mich., generously helps out Radke's cause. 
"I'm usually the one who misses the shot so she can put it back in," quips the junior guard. 
"She'll be messing around in practice with some unbelievable shots one week, and have them ;''down to perfection the next. She's very excitinjZ to watch." 
Although Radke may not tower over her opponents on the court, she definitely walks tall in the clas­sroom. Carrying a 3.59 GPA, the economics major hopes to attend law school in the distant future and possibly stuuy corporate law. 
Her coach apparently thinks she will be just as effective in the courtroom as she is on the basket­ball court. 
"She's a great student of the game," says Wood. "She reads defenses well and reacts to them in a positive way." 
Tonight the 7-10 Belles will make the five-hour trek to Franklin, Ind., where they will meet an always­tough Franklin College team. That is, if the team can stay healthy enough to play the game. 
"Our biggest opponent right now is illness," says Wood, who has about seven players battling the flu. 
Radke was a little under-the­weather on Monday night against Valparaiso, playing just 28-of-40 minutes and still managing to con­tribute 19 points. 
Tammye Radke's dedication to the game of basketball and to her studies defines the model student­AP f'holo 
athlete. And ifshe someday becomes Michael Ray Richardson of the NBA's New jersey Nets ties up a corporate lawyer, it's a safe bet Clark Kellogg ofthe Indiana Pacers in a game earlier this season. she'd be a good person to have on Richardson rejoined the Nets yesterday after a drug test imposed by your side. the team proved negative. A related story appears below. 
Guloli, and Tom Elliott. "Elliott is our consistent defensive player who also adds good puck handling," said Radaczak. 
"The level of competition has been consistently building. After this game, we feel that we can play with anyone. The game that we are definitely working toward is with Off Campus. 
They say that a tie in sports is like kissing your sister. Off Campus ( 2-0­
2 ) would dearly love to trade its sister for wins, as OC settled for its second draw in its last three matches of interhall hockey action. The 2-2 tie came against Cavanaugh/Howard (2-1-1) in a 
' , 
0 

(2191272·7144
,,,ironwood hquors 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOWIIENTING FORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 810 NO Ave 
~7/256-5716 
Call Anytime 
Krause League battle of playoff con­
tenders. 
OC spotted Cavanaugh/Howard a two-goal lead, on scoring efforts by Chris Sulllvan and Grant Weidner. OC was able to cut its deficit in half on Jim Grow's goal, just before the end of the first period. 
The goaltenders took over in the final period, as countless goal­scoring opportunities were turned aside by both goalies. Pat Collins' goal forged the tie, thus keeping OC in second place behind Grace. 
Despite the tie, Cavanaugh/Howard coach John Oteri was pleased with his team's ef­fort. 
llliSH, • 
yoa''/E WON 
OQ" ~EAm! 
~·C? 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 48835 
"The team gave a great effort though we missed a couple of our players," said Oteri. "Andy Fena, our goalkeeper, played a superb game despite having the flu, and Jim 'Scarface' Meija was an emotional in­spiration." 
Keenan and Sorin, two teams playing out the season, met in a Cor­rigan League match as Keenan won easily 7-2. Sorin (0-5) scored the first goal but opted to play its own style of hockey the rest ofthe way. 
The game featured many penalties soon after the score was out of reach. Keenan, which had only eight players, was able to contend with Sorin's rugged play to post its second victory in five games. 
In other matches played, Zahm (3-2) eked out a 3-2 victory over Fis­her (2-3) to keep its slim playoff hopes alive. Pangborn ( 4-0) stayed tied with Alumni for the Corrigan lead by whipping Keenan 7-2. 
Pangborn will face Alumni next Monday night In a battle which should decide the Corrigan League champion. Dillon improved Its record to 2-3 by shutting out Flan· ner ( 0-4 ) by a score of 6-0. 
Richardson rejoins Nets 
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ. · Mic· hael Ray Richardson rejoined the New Jersey Nets yesterday after a drug test on which hls NBA career hinged showed no trace of cocaine in his system. 
Richardson, who has been plagued by cocaine dependency, flew to Cleveland immediately after the results of the mass spectrometer drug screening were released by the league. 
"I am happy for him," said Lewis Schaffel, Nets executive vice presi· dent. "I like him very much. He is an endearing person. The problem is professional." 
The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 12 
Notre Dame's 1986 Recruits 
Name Pos. lit. Wt. Hometown HighSchool 
6-6·· Chi<:ago Car:! Sandbu.tg
Jeff Alm DE 230 
6-2 :ws Hayward, Cal.if. ~fnrcau
Braxton Banks FB Canton, Ohio Md(in.ley
Dean Brown OL-DL 6-4 260 250 Chicagr1 St. taun~nceJason Cegielski OL Mike Crounse OT-DT 
22'5 F.ndi<:ott, .N.Y. Union·Endlnm 228 Denver East
Jim Dadioitis u~ 

b-,3 245 lakewood.· Ohio SLEdward'sBryan Flannery DL 
LB <>-'i 23"i Chicago St. Rita
John Foley 
2.70 
Chicago St. laurenct~PaulG!onek Dt• .6-6 
6~3 .·.· SctaurcnceTimGrunhard OL 2")5 Chkll.g~1 
·chkago St, Laurene(~
Mike Ha:tazin c 6·5 230 :no Braintree. Mass. Archbishop WitHams 
Ted Healy DT 6-3. 
178 Omaha; Neb. Cr.eighton Prep
•t ~ 
DaveJandric DB 
~ 
220 Squth })end .&~tams
AnthonyJohnson LB-DB 
•L ~ 
.. J6lid,Jll; Jf,ttet·cat!iolic·
Kevin McShane DE~TE 225 
Chicago St: Laurence
jeffPearson Ot :H'5 Tt)nyRice QB 
200 Woodruff, S.c. Woodruff 
• ~ 
SL Laurence
Pat Terrell RI:V\\'R, 170 Chicago . 
ioo••·.•·.):k St..· t>ctershurg, fh!C·· · l,;lkewoo(j ...
Stan Smagala WR·DB 
l ~ 
DE 12(.! NewOrkans ·· Bt()ther ~1arHil
Rod West 250 Chkagt'i. St. Rita
John 7..aleski DL-P
J 
Jordan hopes to play, waits for final decision 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Michael Jordan is eager to return to the Chicago Bulls' lineup this weekend after a 3 I /2­month layoff, but his agent says he thinks the acrobatic guard should sit out the rest of the season. 
David Falk of Pro Serv, Jordan's agent, told the Washington Post that he would prefer that Jordan, who broke a bone in his left foot during the third game of the season, not try to return until next fall. 
"We've gone back and forth with him about it and we've been harping with the Bulls' management too. But Michael won't listen. He's such a competitor that if he thinks he's ready to play, then he's going to play," Falk told the Post. 
Falk was out of town Tuesday and unavailable for comment, according to his office in Washington. 
jordan has been consulting with bone specialists in Eugene, Ore., and in Cleveland the past two days before reporting back to the team's doctor, Tim Hallen, a spokesman for 
the National Basketball Association 
club, said Monday. 
"Then we'll compare notes and 
make a decision," said Hallen. 
Jordan had said he was hoping he 
could play tomorrow against the In­
diana Pacers or Sunday when the 
Dallas Mavericks play in Chicago. 
But Bulls General Manager Jerry Krause said the doctors would have to say jordan's foot is ready. 
"If one of those doctors says it's not ready, then he won't play," Krause said in Dallas last Sunday. 
jordan, the NBA's Rookie of the Year last season, told reporters he was certain the Bulls would make the playoffs ifhe comes back healthy and plays the rest of the season. 
"I know what I can do," he said. "I 
won't let this team miss the playoffs." 
Without Jordan, the Bulls are suf­fering with a 17-34 record, but trail the Cleveland Cavaliers by only two games in the race for the NBA east's final playoff berth. 

APPhoro 
Michael jordan of the Chicago Bulls (right) goes up and over Cleveland's Roy Hinson in an NBA battle earlier this season. jor­dan is currently awaiting word from bone specialists who will determine if the guard's broken foot bas healed properly from an injury be sustained over three months ago. The complete story ap­pears at left. 
Happy Valentine's Day 
from 
Join us for Bud &Bud-light 75¢ Bottles Every Thursday Night 
Recruits 
continuedfrom page 16 
Dame class seems to fit that descrip­
tion. 
"Based on pure numbers we had good success with the linemen," said Holtz of his recruits. "We have only four defensive and eight of­fensive linemen on scholarship right now, so I'm concerned about getting through spring practice. 
"But I think you want to look for balance when you recruit. With our current fullback situation there was a question of quickness. Well, the two young men coming in (Braxton Banks and Anthony johnson) have quickness. And Rice can run it downfield and hand the ball to the receiver. 
"The linebackers have very good size and seem to run very well. It looks like the defensive linemen have quick feet, and the offensive linemen can run." 
This is a group of recruits whose names migt)t become familiar to Irish fans as early as next season. 
"I will definitely play freshmen," said Holtz. "I think that it's usually easier for a freshman to play at a skill position than anywhere else, but for now the important thing is who gets better next year." 
IRISH ITEMS -Irish will begin 
spring practice on March 14, with 
five workouts slated for that week 
before spring break. Spring 
workouts will then resume right 
after break. 
N. Carolina tops Clemson 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. -Center Brad 
Daugherty scored 13 points in the 
first 10 minutes ofthe second half as 
top-ranked North Carolina defeated 
Clemson 79-64last night in an Atlan­
tic Coast Conference basketball 
game. 
North Carolina is now 25-1 over­
all and 9-1 in the ACC, while Clem­
son is 14-1 0 and 2-8. 
Daugherty finished with 23 points 
while point guard Kenny Smith, held 
scoreless in the first half, finished 
with 16. Freshman forward Michael 
Best, getting his ftrst start for Clem­son, scored 20 points, and forward Horace Grant added 18 points and 12 rebounds for the Tigers. 



,..
:**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****: ....
f DISDNGUISHED STUDENT .. 
~ AWARD ..* 
-tc .. ~ The Notre Da1ne Alu1nnl Association will IJeaeeeptlnl nonaiiUitloul : frolft FeiJruar~ J4·Z8 for the Sth annual Dlstln,..lshedStudent ~ ~ Award. The Dlst1n1ulshedStudentAward was ereated to honor•n -tc outstandinlseniorstudentat the Unlverslt~ IJased on thefollowlnl 
~~~~ ! 
~ 1) Service to Notre Dame, ~ ~ 2) Service to the Community, and, ~ .~ 3) Good Academic Standing. ~ 
i *
Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on ~ the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for ~ Social Concerns, and at Campus Ministry Office in the ,.. ~ Memorial Library • 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Fe... 28, 1986. : 
****************************************************** 
The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 13 
Price plays key scoring role for Irish off bench 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Over the past four years, Notre 
Dame senior Joseph Price has had a 
habit of breaking out of slumps in a 
big way. 
The 6-S swingman had struggled since the DePaul and BYlJ games in January, not scoring much and seeing a drop in playing time during those eight contests. 
He ended that string with a 28­minute, 12-point performance that helped the Irish defeat highly­ranked Syracuse last Saturday. He continued his fine play by making four shots in only six attempts as Notre Dame routed Fordham on Tuesday. 
Price's mid-season slump is reminiscent of la.'it year, when the Marion, Ind., native averaged less than I 0 minutes of play and one point over the la.'it eight regular­season games. 
Once again, Price rebounded with superb play in the team's final games. He replaced an ill Ken Bar­low in the NCAA Tournament against Oregon State and helped the tl·am with 34 quality minutes and 16 points on seven-of-nine shooting from the floor. Two days later he poured in nine points in 25 minutes 
during Notre Dame's dose loss to 
North Carolina. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps knows 
he needs Price to remain hot if his 
team wants to continue playing well 
the rest of the year. 
"Joseph Price was overdue, and that's why I predicted he would have a good game against Syracuse," Phelps said. "That game really helped his confidence, and that is a key. He played very well last year in the NCAA Tournament, and we need him since that's only a month away 
now." 
Price agreed with his coach con­cerning his play against Syracuse and during last year's tournament. 
"The Syracuse game lifted my confidence because I really haven't played too much lately," Price said. "Playing well in the NCAAs last year really gave me a lot of confidence, and put a lot ofconfidence in Coach Phelps. I didn't play much at the end of last season, so it made me feel good to help the team like I know I can when they needed me. Those games really helped me mature as I headed into my senior year." 
Despite his mid-season slump, Price still remains Notre Dame's fifth-leading scorer with almost seven points per game. He has started two games, but most of his 
ND/SMC Theater announces ... 
Orchestra Auditionsfor West-Side Story Monday, Feb. 17and Tuesday, Feb.18 7-9pm Room 308Moreau Hall, SMC 
Needed: Brass, Winds, and Strings Bring a prepared piece You will be asked to sightread something from the shorr 
18 minutes ofplaying time per game occur when he comesoffthe bench. 
Price has had several outstanding games this year. He scored 13 points and grabbed seven rebounds as Notre Dame held off a furious 

Joseph Price 
second-half rally by Loyola. Two days later he pumped in 20 points and hauled in seven rebounds in a nine-point win uver Oregon in December. 
On Jan. II he scored 10 first-half points to get the Irish out of the blocks as they defeated DePaul 70­54 for the first time after six straight 
losses. Finally, his big performance more confidence, not just me. 
against Syracuse helped Notre Dame "Sometimes I can feel it when I'm 
in its latest big victory. on, but if I'm not real comfortable 
Price is known as a streak shooter, with my shot that day then I won't but both he and Phelps know he can force it. If I'm not on I just try to play do more than just score points. consistently on both offense and 
"He plays well defensively if he's defense." against a big guard or a forward in During his four years, Price has which he can deny the ball," Phelps been forced to endure many said. "Against Syracuse he was changes in his role on the team. sometimes matched up against the "Having a good attitude has Pearl (guard Dwayne Washington), helped me to deal with all of the and he did a very decent job on situations I've faced here," he him." pointed out. "In my freshman year I 
"People seem to feel that Joseph had to go from starting to not start­Price has to score points in order to ing. Then my father died, but I had to have a good game," Price explained. keep playing because life just goes "I try to do other things like set up on. others for their shot, play good "My sophomore year I didn't start defense, or try to get a rebound. A much, and I had some Injuries in my great game isn't only scoring, so if I ~ junior year that kept me back. But don't score Icanstill help the team." then I came on In the tourney and so 
Despite what both Phelps and I looked forward to this year. Price say, many fans of Notre Dame "My senior year I've had to accept basketball look to Price solely as a the role ofa sixth man offthe bench shooter. In fact, most people assume after losing a starting role to a fresh­
that if he misses his first shot then man (Mark Stevenson ~" Price said. he'll be offthe rest ofthe day. "I'm not a selfish-type player so I can "Most of the ,students seem to accept something like that. It just think that ifJoseph Price hits his first makes you more competitive be­
shot then he'll be on, but I don't cause you have to be In the flow of think that way," Price said. "Anyone the game when you enter." who hits their first shot will have If the Irish hope to advance far in 
~~;g;s~;g;s~~;s~~~~~;g;s~~;s~~;s~>S'i;s~~ii'J post-season play, they need Joseph 
..ORirs
SOPHO,J"•' .:;;,,
Ju'&FJORS
J., tarlo
& SEJ. R S 
4
SPEND AN AFTERNOON IN YOU
R 
SPECIFIC CAREER INTEREST! 
CAREER ORIENTATION DAY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1986 in Indianapolis 
apply at the Alumni Assocation Office by Friday, February 14, 1986 $12.00 fee for transportation, lunch & dinner 
Limited space available sponsored by the AlumniAssociation StudentAlumniRelations Group (SARG) 
Price to come off the bench and provide the scoring and consistent play he has shown in the last several games. Ukewise, Price wants to 
finish his career on a high note. "I want to keep taking what I learn and usc tt to help my game, rather than let it work against me," he con-eluded. "Looking at this year 1 want 
~~~.tofinishstrongandglveltalll 
Rice 
THI K 
THICK
I 
THURS 

MY $51 
Right now, you can get the hearty THURSDAY THICK ONE for only live buckst A thick 12" pizza with pepperoni, double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less than 30 minutes. So call Domino's Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. Our dnvers carry less lhan 
$20.00. Ltmtled delivery area. No coupon necessary. 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
/At
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA DEUVERS" 
FREE. 
BACK TO THE GRIND Foryoa It'• back to the boob. For••It'• grinding len•e• for yoar bettervt.lon 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contact.. gla••­
ND/SMC STUDENTS. FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show yoar I.D. and receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Eacladlng Speclaa. 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400277-1161 
Martin's ShoppingSouth of U.S. 23 
Center 

~~M!CH!GAN 
:...,____.._The feeling is forever.____) 
Knight stays at Indiana 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Memo from Indiana's Bob Knight to anyone else seeking his coaching services: forget it. 
The Hoosier coach said yesterday he has not applied for the coaching job at Ohio State, that he doesn't In­tend to apply there or anywhere else and that he wlll remain with the Hoosiers for the rest of his coaching 
career. 
The Observer Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 14 
Iowa goes across country in Big Ten recruiting 
Iowa's Big Ten football cham­pions went coast to coast for their top two recruits yesterday, while runnerup Michigan and third place Illinois concentrated on home­grown talent. 
Purdue's Boilermakers landedJeff George, the nation's No. 1 quarter­back, and the National High School Coaches Association Player of the Year. 
George, a 6-3, 193-pounder from Indianapolis, led Warren Central to a second straight undefeated season by completing 252 of424 passes for 
3,594  yards  and  a  national  high  
school record 45 touchdowns.  
Iowa  signed  quarterback  D;or-,  

Swimming 
continuedfrom page 16 
Baerlocher and senior Joan Burke finished in first, second and third places, respectively. Byrne swam the race with a time of 5:36.2I, while Baerlocher had a time of 5:46.42. 
In a close 200-yard freestyle 
event, Notre Dame freshman Jean 
Browne captured first place with a 
time of 2:07.77, while Saint Mary's 
senior Joyce Murtagh finished right 
behind her with a time of 2:07.97. 
Monica Smith, a sophomore, 
finished in third place for the Irish. 
The Belles took first in the 50-yard freestyle event, as sophomore Meg­han Rafferty finished with a time of 
0:26.90. Amberg came in second for the Irish with a time of 0:27.07, while Saint Mary's junior Patty Juckniess placed third. 
O'Brien and Tess Doering, a senior, made the one-two finish for the Irish in the 200-yard individual medley, finishing with times of 
2:28.12 and 2:30.66, respectively. Freshman Tanya Reeves came in third place for Saint Mary's. 
Amy Darlington, swimming ex­hibition for the Irish, set a new pool record in the 200-IM, finishing with a time of 2:I8.35. The sophomore broke the old record of 2:19.39, set just two weeks ago by the Irish against Oral Roberts. 
In the one-meter diving competi­tion, Notre Dame captured first, second and third places. Seniors Col­leen Ambrose and Mary Amico totaled 140.5 5 and I 12.5 points, respectively, while freshman Kathi Epping posted 90.25 points. 
The Irish made it a clean sweep in the 1 00-yard butterfly event as well, with Walker, Logan and Browne finishing in first, second and third places, respectively. Walker swam the race with a time of 1:04.56, and Logan had a time of I :06.33. 
Notre Dame sophomore Anne Costello finished first in the 1 00­yard freestyle event with a time of 
0:58.92. Murtagh took second place for Saint Mary's, posting a time of 1:00.20, and Jennifer Veselik, a sop­homore, came in third for the Belles. 
O'Brien swam the I000-yard freestyle in 12:26.90 to capture first place in the event for the Irish, while Saint Mary's senior Anne Cushing came in second with a time of 12:29.90. 
In the second one-meter diving competition, Irish diver Amico totaled 145.75 points for first place, and freshman Brigid Murphy took second place for the Belles with 1 04.1 points. 
Smith captured first place for the Irish in the I00-yard breaststroke with a time of 1:17.65, and Margaret Mannion, a Saint Mary's junior, came in second with a time of 1:18.53. 
The Notre Dame senior relay team of Boss, Burke, Doering and Venette Cochiolo won the 800-yard freestyle relay with a time of 8:55.18, while Murtagh, Veselik, freshmen Sara Maurer and Jennifer Burke took second for Saint Mary's with a time of9:13.00. 
McGwire of Claremont, Calif., and running backTony Stewart ofUnion, 
N.J. McGwire, a 6-8 giant who passed for 3,172 yards and 33 touch­downs last season, had 65 career touchdowns. Stewart, one ofthe top three running backs in the country, rushed for 1, 71 5 yards and 29 touch­downs. 
Michigan Coach Bo Schem­bechler landed three of his state's top five prospects in running backs Allen Jefferson and Tony Boles of Detroit and linebacker Marc Spen­cer of Birmingham. Schembechler also received commitments from tackle Warde Manuel of New Or­leans and defensive back Vada Mur­ray ofCincinnati. 
With Schembechler gaining an edge as fur as in-state talent this year, Michigan State Coach George Perles made Ohio his target. Perles landed tackle Chris Soehnlen of Louisville and linebacker Percy Snow and defensive back Jerome Perrin from Canton McKinley. 
In Michigan, Perles got linebacker Curtis Young of Kalamazoo and defensive back Vetson Donaldson of Detroit. 
Illini Coach Mike White signed 28 players including 1 7 from the state of Illinois. The other 11 were all from neighboring Missouri and In­diana. White's top prospects from Il­linois were quarterback Chris Ondrula ofSpringfield and offensive linemen BradJames of Lockport and Ed Pedersen ofDeKalb. 
"We set out to put our major em­phasis on the state," said White. "I feel the results justify the approach we've taken. We got the numbers we wanted and, if we evaluated properly, this will be an excellent class." 
Ohio State signed quarterback Greg Frey of Cincinnati, but Coach Earle Bruce went heavy on linemen in the home state. The list included 270-pound John Peterson of Mid­dletown and 265-poundJeffKuczek ofYoungstown Boardman. 
"I think we have done a pretty good job," said Bruce. "It was a good year for linemen and I think that's the emphasis we took." 
Minnesota's program was jilted and jolted when Lou Holtz opted to take his coaching philosophy and dry humor to Notre Dame. John Gutekunst, who replaced Holtz, has done an excellent job under the cir­cumstances. 
Gutekunst landed most of the players he wanted in Minnesota in­cluding running backs Darrell Thompson, Pat Tinglehoff and Ron Goetz, and · defensive lineman Bob Coughlin. 
Tinglehoff is the son of former Minnesota Vikings' all-pro Mick Tinglehoff. Pat rushed for 1,662 yards and 23 touchdowns and could step in as Minnesota's kickoff return specialist. 
Gutekunst also went to Florida for running back Marcus Evans and wide receiver Eddie Miles. 


'JI['t(Jt.cllC3L~-----------------------------------------Th--u_r_sd_a_y_,_F_eb_ru
__ary___1_3_,1_.9_8_6_-_P_a_g_e_l_s Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
f£Y.•. ARE YOU IIIICJiAU. 'MAil Ct\1 • BINKt£Y... CHIW f.MPWYf£ ~ 6/f'H-13-7098 p? ------­ I ~NNO... r GUe:55 fXJ. Wff'l?  YM ro5mON HA5 B€£N lERMIN/UtD. YOO'V£ I3WJft'£ OB5CX..E.TE. I  00! WAIT! TU. STUpY HARVEK !... BRING '€R ru. C:hJf OFF~ rN HARRY ffffOtNTt.Y!... '1 . .11V<E ~ow RJ1TY BKEAI\5!  


*************************·•*************************
~ · The Student Activities Board presents..... ltiC The Student Activities Board presents.... * iC *ie * t.o1\et':~!"~J\.CHELOR at African Queen a ~ ~\;~eguYs PARTY *~ ~
"" *"" ~
Wednesday and ThursdayiC Friday and Saturday *iC February 12 and 13 $1.00 * ~ February 14 and 15 $1.50 ~iC Hall of Engineering * iC Hall of Engineering *iC ~ 
ie*****7:00,9:00, and 11:00******!*****7:00,9:00, and 11:00 ***** ~ 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Comedian Johnson 
5 Founds 10 Freeway glut 14 Average 15 Small egg 16 He loved a 
Rose 17 Entering 
money 16 Actreaa Oberon 19 Duck milieu 20 Shawplay 23 Huge 24 Mink's swim· 
mlngcousln 25 Fuji's land 26 Trumpet sound 31 Dill herb 32 Followers 
ofZeno 34 -man (unanl· mously) .. 37 February 
missives 40 Lawyer: abbr. 41 Refer 42 Sunday paper 
section 43 Highlanders 44 John Jacob ­45 Pledged word 46 El-, Tex. 50 Conrad classic 57 Facilitate 58 New Zealand 
native 59 Pelvic bones 60 Forest member 61 Upper crust 62 Rich fabric 63 Underling: 
abbr. 64 Badgerllke animal 65 Story 
DOWN 1 Oriental 
nanny 2 Director Clair 3 So long In Soho 4 Sap 5 Flops 6 Tum away 7 Certain 
!Cl1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 2/13/86All Rights Reserved 
Monday's Solution 
8 A Logan 9 Try to find 10 "In Cold 
Blood" author 11 Circa 12 Washercycle 13 Passovermeal 21 Make leather 22 Appaloosa 25 Indonesian 
Island 26 Med.sch. 
subj. 27 Trapper's goal 28 Certain gift 29 Told a fib 30 Persistent 
pain 
2/13/86
32 WWIItown 33 Pinball error 45 Le«er from 51 Heb. measure 34 Move smartly Greece 52 White House 35 Premlnger 46 Brlngsup dog 36 Old lyre 47 Desert spas 53 --yourself 38 Night: Ger. 46 Ex -(one-54 Director 39 Burner sided) Kazan 43 Broad or Wall 49 ''Tempest" 55 Window part 44 Inquire sprite 56 Benefit 
-

Campus 
-9:00 A.M. · Reception, Representative from Volunteer in Diocesan Action, Center for So· cia! Concerns Building, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns 
•II:30 P.M. -Out To Lunch? Proceeds go to Dismas House, a hallWay home where stu­dents and ex-prisoners live together, Center for Social Concerns Building, S3 
•12:15 P.M. Faculty Forum, "A 
Microeconomic and Evolutionary Approach to Macroeconomics," Mancur Olson,· Univer· sity of Maryland, Room I2I Hayes-Healy, ~ponsored by the College of Business Ad· ministration 
•3:30 
P.M. · Computins MlnJcourses, Tapes and Backup: Room II5 Computing Center, Displaywrite3, Part 2: Room I04 Computing Center 

•4:00 
P.M. · Seminar, "Time Resolved EPR Spectroscopy Applied to a Covalently Unked Porphyrin Dimer," Prof. Halm Levanon, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory, Sponsored by the Radiation Laboratory 

•4:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "After Gramsci," Prof. Joseph Uttigieg, Notre Dame, Wilson Com­mons, Sponsored by the Dept. ofEnglish, 

•4:15 
P.M.· Lecture, "A New Approach to the Ethics of Income Distribution," Prof. Mancur Olson, Memorial Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by the College of Business Ad· ministration Manville America Enterprise Lecture Series 


Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame Veal Parmesan Ham & Broccoi Rollup Cheese & Vegetable Pot Pie Western Sandwich  Saint Mary's Roast Beef Chicken Breasts  

"Mom! Theron's dried his bed again." 
•4:I5 
P.M. · Seminar, "Water Quality Model­ing in Saginaw Bay, Lake Huron: A Long-Term Case Study," Dr. Victor Bierman, USEPA, Rhode Island, Room 303 Cushing, Sponsored by the Civil Engineering Dept. 

•4:30 
P.M. · Colloquium, "Index Sets in Recursion Theory," Prof. Steffen Lempp, Uni· versity of Chicago, Room 226 Computer Center and Math Building 

•5:30 
P.M. • Support Group, Women's Sup· port Group, Room 3I6 Student Health Center, Sponsored by the Psyche Services Center 

•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Fellowship of Christian .'Athletes, Commoner Room, Flanner 

•7, 
9 & II :00 P.M. · Movie, "African Queen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, Sl 

•7:30 
P.M. · Lecture, "Faith and Reason: An Unfinished Theme of the Enlightenment," Rev. Walter Kasper, University of Tubingen, Memorial Ubrary, Sponsored by Exxon Dis· tingulshed Visiting Scholar lieries, College of Arts and Letters, and the Program of Uberal Studies 

•7:30 
P.M. · Movie, "The Hit Man," Saint Mary's library Audio-Visual Room, Sponsored by Amnesty International 

•8:00 
P.M. · Concert, Cincinnati Opera, un­der the direction of Byron Dean Ryan, O'Laughlin Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. ·Movie, "Woza Albert," Center for Social Concerns Building, Sponsored by African and Black Studies Program -9:00 P.M. · Bowllng Night, Beacon Bowl Bowling Alley, Sponsored by Class of '87 


Thursday, February 13, 1986 -page 16
Seorts 
Notre Dame signs 21 B.S. players; Holtz pleased with his first recruits 
By LARRY BURKE 
AsststantSports Editor 
Irish head football coach Lou 
Holtz called the signing of offensive 
and defensive linemen "a prime con· 
sideration." He also referred to the 
establishment of a strong recruiting 
base in Chicago as "an absolute 
necessity." 
He achieved both those goals yes­terday, the official signing day for high school seniors. 
The Irish received commitments from 21 recruits, five ofthem Parade Magazine All-Americans. But more importantly as far as Holtz is con­cerned, 12 of them are linemen, and nine of them are from the Chicago area. 
Overall the Irish did not do as well as they could have. They missed out on some blue chippers in the last few days, like safety Mark Carrier (to USC), lineman Adam Cooney (to Washington), tight end Ed McCaf· frey (to Stanford), and defensive lineman Warde Manuel (to Mic· higan). But considering the cir­cumstances surrounding the post-season coaching change, Notre Dame fared quite well. 
"I can't really say what our needs are because I don't know our ath· letes that well," Holtz said yesterday. "But I'd say considering that (the new coaching staff) had to pick up in mid-stream, we did pretty well. Overall, I'm pleased, because these 
Complete list -page 12 
young men chose Notre Dame for the right reasons. They have a realis· tic understanding of Notre Dame and what we expect from them. And I'm still head coach · I didn't promise that title to anyone in order to get them to come here." 
· As Holtz had planned all along, the Irish signed justone quarterback. He is Tony Rice, a Parade All-American from Woodruff, S.C. The other four Irish recruits on the Parade honor 
I 
roll are St. Rita (Chicago)linebacker John Foley, McKinley (Canton, Ohio) lineman Dean Brown, and St. Laurence (Chicago) linemen Jeff Pearson and Paul Glonek. 
Holtz might have had a few more names from that Parade list, but he went into the recruiting race several weeks behind because he needed time to assemble his new staff last November. 
"The late start that we got was critical," Holtz said. "Did you ever try to get a date with a girl a week before her wedding? I wouldn't advise you to make a living that way. You won't fill up your social calen· dar doing it." 
But Holtz, along with recruiting coordinator Vinny Cerrato and the rest of the coaching staff, managed to fill his calendar pretty well. Holtz' recruiting philosophy is to bring in new talent that compliments the present athletes. His first Notre 
see RECRUITS, page 12 
Boosters create controversy; none present at Notre Dame 
(Editor's note: Today The Obser­ver begins its two-part series on boosters and college athletics. Part one focuses on booster scandals and wby there are no boosters at Notre Dame.) 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Writer 
"Booster." Just mention the word to the athletic departments at 20 dif· ferent universities and you'll hear 20 different opinions. Just one thing. Don't mention boosters at Notre Dame. 
Boosters, while not highly· regarded at Notre Dame, are an in· tegral part of the athletic programs at a number of colleges throughout the country. Without their support, many top contenders in college football and basketball would not have the financial ability to field quality teams. 
Essentially, booster groups raise funds for athletic scholarships in any number of varsity sports, help finance new facilities, and help ath· letic programs survive among the rising costs of college sports. But why are boosters nowhere to be found at Notre Dame? 
"First of all, we're in better finan­cial shape than in many cases," ex­plains Director of Public Relations and Information Richard Conklin. "Our football and basketball teams have large followings and our alumni support has been superb in the past." 
But there's something more to the 

Boosters& College Athletics 
story which has to be said, and it might be appropriate to introduce a new word "scandal." Some boosters seem to have a knack of overstepping their bounds and violating the rules laid down by the NCAA. This, perhaps above all, frightens the Notre Dame athletic department away from booster groups. 
"Early on, we saw the danger ofan independent group controlling such a thing as athletic funding under the University name," says Conklin. "They can be trouble, and there are so many scandals to back that up. Some gain so much control that they can pay the better part of a coach's salary. (The University of) Colorado was the biggest case. If you can't control them, they can get out of hand." 
What Conklin was referring to oc· curred in 1980 at the University of Colorado, when an independent booster group known as the Flatirons Club raised $200,000 to hire football coach Chuck Fairbanks. To accept the new position, Fair· banks had to break his contract with the New England Patriots. The Patriots sued, and a settlement for $200,000 was reached out of court. In essence, the booster club had bought the rights to Fairbanks and cancelled the penalty for breaking a 
contract. 
But the Colorado incident is by no means an isolated one. Boosters have become more and more in· 
see BOOSTERS, page 10 

The Obllcrver/Hanna Hacker 
Notre Dame forward joseph Price puts the ball up over Utah's Mitch Smith (left) in an Irish win earlier tftis year. The senior bas played a valuable role offthe bench tbis season for the Irish. Nick Schrantzfeatures Price in bis story on page 13. 
Irish swim past Belles, earn 8th win of season 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame swim team defeated host Saint Mary's by a score of 79-32 last night at the Rolfs Aquatics Center. 
Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh was pleased not only with the vic­tory, which improved the team's record to 8-2, but with the addi· tional experience his swimmers received in preparation for upcom­ing championship meets. 
"We had the chance to try some events we hadn't swum before at this meet," he said. "We used several opportunities to prepare for upcom­ing events by swimming either over or under our primary distances." 
Despite the defeat, Saint Mary's swim coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz was satisfied with the Belles perfor­mance. 
"It was fun," she said. "We got some more optional times qualified for Nationals, and that helps us a lot." 
The Irish started out on top, sweeping first, second and third places in the first event of the meet, the 200-yard medley relay. In a combined effort, senior Julie Boss, sophomores Hollianne Logan and Nancy O'Brien, and freshman Tracy Johnson finished first with a time of 
2:02.01. The team of sophomores Elizabeth Genega and Sharon Von· Dolman, and freshmen Erin Daly and Kelly Quinn took second place for Notre Dame. Juniors Katie Traxler, Suzanne DeVine, Monica Walker and 
P.J. Amberg completed the sweep for the Irish by placing third. 
It was all Notre Dame once again in the 500-yard freestyle event. Sop· homores Barbara Byrne and Eva 
see SWIMMING, page 14 
ND is not lowering standards to recruit Rice 
Under normal circumstances it would not be unusual for Notre Dame football fans to take notice of Tony Rice after the high school phenom signed a national letter of intent yesterday to play his collegiate ball here under new head coach Lou Holtz. After all, the star quarterback from Woodruff, S.C., is a Parade Magazine All-American and one ofthe highest-rated passers in this year's talent-laden pool of prep players. 
What is a bit unusual about the amount ofattentiQn Rice has been receiving on campus and in the local press is that it has nothing to do with his ability to throw the pigskin. 
In case you haven't heard, Rice is reported to have scored only a 640 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
So what, you say? Isn't a 640 on either the Verbal test or Mathematical portion a relatively typical mark for a Notre Dame student? Yes, but this 640 is a combined score. Recent NCAA legislation requires all athletes to record a minimum score of660 on the SAT to remain eligible. Rice, who will receive a scholarship no matter what happens, therefore will retake the exam March 15. 
At many schools, such as Florida or Miami or SMU, the boosters would be losing sleep while they waited and worried about Rice's eligibility. At Notre Dame, however, a school that prides itselfon its squeaky-clean image in inter· collegiate affairs, the worrying is centered around academic standards. Is Notre Dame, a long-time and vocal 

Marty Burns 
Assistant Sports Editor 
supporter of tougher NCAA regulations, forming a new recruiting approach? 
Not a chance, says Holtz. 
"We would certainly never want to do anything that would jeopardize Notre Dame's reputation academically," said Holtz. "That's what makes Notre Dame great. Here the players have to be true student-athletes." 
It would appear, nevertheless, that Rice has been a lot more of an athlete than a student over his high school career. On the field, the 6-3, 200-pounder has passed for more than 7,000 yards total offense (40 touchdowns), while rushing last season for 934 yards and 21 touch· downs. In the classroom, Rice scored a less notable 2.65 grade-point average and the aforementioned 640 on the SAT. 
Holtz, however, emphasizes that Rice is not a special case, and that the star player completed all the necessary requirement& established by the undergraduate admis­sions office. 
"We had our coaches look at his academics to see if he could get in here," said Holtz. "He has taken all the subjects that everybody else around here has taken, and he has received excellent grades. To my knowledge, he's a good student. And I'll tell you, he's a real class young man and a very intelligent young man. He's a Notre Dame man and he'll blend in very well with the student body." 
Perhaps the most important thing to keep in mind is that Holtz will never have the final say in determining an ath· Jete's admission. The final decision, as Holtz himself is quick to point out, rests with the Notre Dame administra­tion. 
"I don't have anything to do with admissions," noted Holtz. "The admissions people do an outstanding job wit­hout me. I'm not even familiar with Rice's SAT scores. I do know, however, that there have probably been few who have made a more favorable impression on their visits to this university than Tony Rice. He impressed everybody that he met." 
An interesting note to the issue came from Irish basket­ball coach Digger Phelps, who disclosed that some of his players from previous years also would not have been 
see RICE, page 13 

