Circle K -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 32 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 , 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Vote on parietals proposal slated for next CLC meeting 
By MARILYN BENCHIK the next CLC meeting, they appears the students and the ad­Assistant Saint Mary's Editor would then need the approval of ministration have two different Vice President for Student Affairs conceptions of what the severity 
A vote for the proposal con­Father David Tyson in order to of the offense for parietal viola­cerning changes in parietals was become official policy. tions are. We didn't come to any set aside at a closed meeting of "The feeling of the council is consensus. the Campus Life Council on Wed­that there is a better chance of "It came down to a discussion nesday. the proposals being passed by of semantics but that was not the 
The CLC, which includes rec­Tyson if they are backed by a main problem at the meeting. tors, student representatives and comprehensive survey of all the The semantics do not matter," administrators, discussed three hall staff," Montanero said. Holst said. proposed changes to the parietal "We need to do more research "The meeting was good and it policy. and refine the proposals. We was frustrating. On the first two 
The proposals would extend have to speak with all of the hall proposals, things looked pretty Sunday visitation hours from 12 staffs about changing the positive. On the last issue, as a 
a.m. to 12:.30 a.m., and morning phraseology concerning the student it was pretty frustrat­visitation hours from I I a.m. to penalty for overnight parietal vi­ing," said Steve Viz, student 10 a.m., as well as reduce the olations," Student Body Presi­senator for district 4. penalty for overnight parietals vi­dent Mike Switek said. "We spent a lot of time on the olations. "They (the rectors and faculty) semantics on the third issue. 
According to Don Montanero, didn't shut any doors on us. They How we (students on the CLC) student body vice president, the encouraged us to iron-out the felt is that the overnight parietal proposals were set aside for dis­phraseology which would lead violation is not as serious as sex cussion at the next meeting, one to believe that they're and drug violations as it is which will come some time after heading in the same direction portrayed in du Lac as of now," fall break. that we are," Montanero said. Viz said. 
"There is a lot of stuff to work According to Switek, "We're all Wednesday's CLC meeting was out with the semantics in the heading in the same direction." closed to the public because proposals before the next meet­Brian Holst student senator Switek decided there was a need ing," Montanero said. for district I, said, "''m disap­
If the proposals are passed at pointed with the CLC meeting. It see PARIETALS, page 6 
System of import quotas, licenses proposed by economics professor 
The Observer /Michael Ury 
is ever going to exist. nations involved and not creat­

By ROB HENNIG Letting it all hang out 
Senior StafF Reporter Speaking before an audience ing political side-effects. of approximately 125, Cul­"The United States needs to Many students are excited about Halloween, which falls on a 
John Culbertson, professor of bertson added, "Most nations do limit access to its market by set­friday this year. Some Zahm students publicly display their economics at the University of not practice it and are not going ting quotas on imports from anticipation with a little help from a friend. Wisconsin, criticized present to practic~ it." other nations then selling the im­trade policies and called for a According to Culbertson, the port licenses that effectuate the new comprehensive system of effect of the United States prac­quotas," he said. import quotas and licenses at a ticing free trade while other na­According to Culbertson, a sys­

ND Security pprchases 

lecture given last night in the tions do not reciprocate is a one­tem of quotas and import Hayes-Healy Auditorium. sided movement of benefits. licenses would reduce the trade Culbertson, speaking on the "If the trade problem is not deficit. Trade would then be both 

machines to test breath 

topic, "The Trade Threat to taken care of, action on other balanced and mutually benefi­American Labor," said present matters will be useless," he said. cial. By MIRIAM HILL Bend Police Department for a Senior Staff Reporter breathalyzer test Rakow said. 
trade policies are harmful. He Culbertson said that trade After speaking, Culbertson In addition to campus roads,
said it is delusionary to pretend policies should be based upon a Notre Dame Security has juris­
that universal free trade exists or balanced trade, benefitting both see QUOTAS, page 6 Notre Dame Security has pur­diction on roads adjacent to chased breath testing equipment campus, including U.S. .31, An­to use in law enforcement and gela Avenue, Juniper and educational programs, accor­Douglas roads. 
Teaching posts announced at SMC 
ding to Director of Security Rex Although the Alco-Sensors will Rakow. be used for law enforcement, Special to The Observer fairs. and has worked as a counselor Security officers will use hand­their primary use will be educa­Rose, Overly and Anselman are at Indiana Vocational Technical held machines called Alco­tional, Rakow said. In order to New appointments to Saint recent graduates of Saint Mary's. College in South Bend. Sensors to give breath tests to teach students about drunk Mary's faculty and administrative Rose completed a B. B.A. in Mar­New faculty members in art in­people they suspect of drunk driving, he said, Security officers staff were announced recently. keting'Management and a com­clude: Brian Madigan, visiting driving. The Indiana Department will be stationed in campus 
Mary Joe Palmieri and Holly puter science minor. Overly was professor. Madigan received his of Highways awarded the Secur­parking lots one night per Taylor are new residfnce hall formerly a coordinator for Saint Ph. D. from the University of Min­ity Department a $600 federal weekend and will offer students directors. Palmieri recently com­Mary's Alumnae Admission nesota. He was an adjunct assis­grant in September to purchase leaving their cars the chance to pleted her masters at the Univer­Council. Anselman taught at tant professor at the University the Alco-Sensors. take a breath test. sity of Pittsburgh. Taylor Alston Middle School in Summer­of Notre Dame. Rakow said he did not expect Students are free to to turn received a B.A. in education at ville, S.C. before returning to New faculty members in biol­an increase in the number of down the test and those who par­Bethel College in Mishawaka, Saint Mary's. ogy include: Thomas Platt, assis­drunk driving arrests on campus ticipate will not be asked to iden­where she was Assistant Director lise Klinkhamer, a native of tant professor. Platt holds a as a result of the new equip­tify themselves, Rakow said. of Student AffairSIResidence Germany and a former student Ph. D. from the University of Al­ment's use. Students whose blood alcohol Director. at the University ofDetroit, works berta, Edmonton. He was for­"We won't be out patrolling for levels are above the legal limit 
Susan Clark, Kathleen Rose, in the deparmtment of Modern merly assistant professor at the drunk drivers any more than we of 0. I percent will not be turned Karen Overly and Jeanne Ansel­Languages as Language Lab Co­University of Richmond. ever did," he said. over to campus or local aut­manjoin the Admission Office as ordinator. New faculty members in busi­The results of Alco-Sensor horities, Rakow said. Admission Counselors. Clark Susan Searightjoins the Coun­ness administration and eco­tests are not accepted as Security will not use the Alco­was Assistant Residence Coord­seling and Career Development nomics include: Robert Drevs, evidence in court. Anyone whose Sensors at raids of off-campus inator at Indiana University Center as a part-time counselor. associate professor. Drevs blood alcohol level registered parties and bars. where she completed her M.S. in Searight received her M.A. from above the legal limit therefore, higher education and student af-the University of South Florida, see SMC, pqe 3 would be taken to the South see BREATH, page 6 


The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 2 


In Brief 
Food for thought. Jim Muensterman of Evansville, Ind., says that if a person can't stomach a brain sandwich, it's all In the mind. Every day, the owner of the Hilltop Inn serves up hot­from-the-skillet brain sandwiches, a popular alternative to hamburgers in southern Indiana and Illinois. Muensterman prides himself on using fresh beef brains, carefully cleaned of their membranes and mixed with a batter of eggs and self-rising flour. "Then you've got to cook 'em so they're crisp on the outside, but still moist on the inside," he said. A properly prepared brain sandwich "has a taste all Its own," said Clyde Peckenpaugh of Henderson, Ky. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Highlighting the Multicultural Fall Festival, the American Lebanese Club will be on the Fieldhouse Mall from noon to 1 p.m. A fireside chat with Notre Dame provost Timot~y O'Meara and Diane Murray will focus on China at 8 p.m. m the International Students Organization Lounge on the second floor of Lafortune. -The Observer 
Approximately 50 major American law school representa­tives will meet with area college students from noon to 4 
p.m. in Stepan center. Prospective law students will rec~ive information on admissions, application procedures, curncu­lum, scholarships, tuition, housing. and placement and career services at the various schools. The informational ses­sion is co-sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
Sports Editor of the Los Angeles Times, William Dwyre, this year's flrst speaker in the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series, will speak at 4 p.m. in the Memorial Libra~ auditorium. The lecture, sponsored by the Student Alumm Relations Group and Student Government, is open to the Notre DametSaint Mary's community. -The Observer 
Eating disorders will be discussed by Dr. David Garner, director of research in Toronto General Hospital's department of psychiatry, tonight at 8 in Madelava Hall's Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Garner will focus on the sociotcultural pressures on women to stay thin. The talk is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
A solo voice recital of sacred music will be presented by Carol Belland, a lecturer In Saint Mary's department of music, tonight at 8 in the Chu~ch of Loretto. The performan~e will 
·Include spirituals, Gounod's "Ave Maria," and a selectton of hymns dedicated to the Blessed Virgin which will be sung in Polish. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Law School's 12th Annual Tax and Estate Plan­ning Institute will be held tonight at 8:.30 In South ~nd's Century Center auditorium. Speaking will be Lawrence Gtbbs, commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. For more in­formation, contact Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute at 2.39-7528. -The Observer 
"Do Notre Dame freshmen and seniors think alike?" will be the topic on tonight's Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 to 1 1 on WVFI-AM 640. Host Lynne Strand will interview seniors Shiela McDaniel and Milt Mirashiro, and freshmen Kara Trowbridge and Brian McCarthy on their views of Notre Dame life. Listeners may call 2.39-6400 with questions and comments. -The Observer 
The National College Internship Service ofNew York assists undergraduate and graduate students to obtain individually designed internships in their major fields during Summer 1987 and December/January Intersession 1986-87. Place­ments are available in New York City, Long Island, and Westchester. For more information, write or call: National College Internship Service, .374 New York Avenue, Hunting­ton, N.Y 1174.3, or call 516-67.3-0440. On-campus informa­tion is available through the Career and Placement Services office. -The Observer 




Drug testing may Impinge on our privacy and civil rights 


President Reagan recently signed a far­reaching executive order calling for the manda­tory testing of federal workers for evidence of illegal drug use. Under the Reagan plan, all gov­ernment employees whose work is considered to be important to national security or to the protection of public health and safety will be required to submit urine specimens for chemical analysis. 
No one is sure yet how many of the approxi~ mately 2.8 million civilians on the federal payroll will be ordered to routinely fill specimen jars as part of their job requirements. Programs of "voluntary" testing are already being instituted in those offices which do not clearly fall within the domain of national security or public safety. This evidence suggests that a considerable por­tion of the U.S. population, under orders, will soon be standing in line with a warm jar of liquid in their hands. 
Federal workers will not be the first to be screened for illegal drug use. Already airline pilots, athletes, military personnel, police offi­cers, and top business executives accept specimen cups as a routine part of their lives. 
The Career and Placement Services now main­tains a list of major companies recruiting here on campus that require pre-employment drug tests. The precedent set by the Reagan decision is sure to be followed by large corporations, state and local governments, and many other large scale organizations. 
In the sports world, drug testing is accepted as the key to greater public respectability and a winning record. Mandatory testing has become the policy of both professional and collegiate teams all across the country, including those here at Notre Dame. 
Not many people have deeply objected to this sort of intrusion into athletes' personal lives. Supposedly the Interests of the team take precedence over the privacy of the individuals. It seems almost a given that the examination of an athlete's urine falls within the bounds of the team doctor or trainer. After all, the argument goes, ifan athlete really objected to the principle of drug testing or sincerely preferred drugs to sports, he or she could always quit the team. 
But the same reasoning thatjustifies drug test­ing for athletes could be used to institute the tests for the general population as well. Clearly if the Athletic Department finds that urinalysis enhances its respectability, improves its com­petitive performance, and helps it to enforce dis­cipline among problem athletes, it is only a mat­ter of time before the Admissions Office and the Office of Student Affairs get the same ideas. Frankly, the prospect of filling specimen cups for any administrative reason, whether on a reg­ular or random basis, is not only frightening. it's digusting. 

James Carroll 
Photography Manager 
In the business world, proponents ofdrug test­ing usually justify their position with claims of increased office productivity and greater public safety. We are led to believe that urinalysis will weed out those acting irresponsibly on the job. This argument is flawed in that a positive return on a drug test offers no proof that an employee has been high on the job or has in any way mismanaged his or her official responsibilities. 
Traces of marijuana and cocaine appear in the urine for days and even weeks after the psycho­logical effect of the drug has worn off. Such tests reveal who has been breaking the law but not who is negligent on the job. The issue then be­comes one of criminal prosecution and not busi· ness efficiency. And as a matter of due process, mandatory drug testing seems to be very much in violation of the Constitutional privilege to be free of search and seizure without probable cause. 
For centuries western societies have recog­nized the privacy of certain personal acts as the immutable right of the individual. The Reagan administration's decision to begin urine testing on a massive scale represents a major incon­venience with which all of us are going to have to learn to live. Apart from the indignity of being ordered to urinate for some official inspector, we will be losing a large measure of civil rights and privacy as well. 


KNIGHTS
t AMERICAN WCANCER 
Men's hairstyling
'.SOCIE1Y11 
272-1691 


Weather 
Jack Frost may visit Saint Mary's and Notre Dame tonlte; however, look for clouds today with highs in the mid 50s. Clear with frost likely tonight with lows In the mid .30s. Mostly sunny Friday with highs In the upp€r 50s. -Assolcated Press 


Design Editor .......... Rob Luxem Sports Copy Editor ..... Marty Burns Design Assistant ......... Bob White Viewpoint Layout ...... Alice Groner Layout Staff . ...... Katy Kronenberg Accent Copy Editor . Caroline Gillespie Typesetter . ............ Sean Sexton Accent Layout ....... Mary Reynolds News Editor ........ Ann Kaltenbach Typist . ............... Colleen Foy Copy Editor . ......... Rachel Jarosh Photographer . ......... Mike Moran .................. Margie Kersten ....................... MikeUry 
The Obsener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods. The Obwrnr is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obwner is a member of The Assoc:iloted Press. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 
,
,
, 

,,, Now, you can ,, look&feel 
,


, great all yearl 
,
,, 

Call us at 272-7653 
University Commons St. Rd. 23 
Sanitized tanning booths and beds Expiration date: Oct.16,1986 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 3 

UC(}'Qowe/t<J fpn oQQ occQ~iong_~~ 
, Come in and Browse 327 Lincolnway 23l~3354 

· · · ·······~lass·til.,IV·~ 
f:r"" : 
~sA •
O,o :



Pee Wee's Cor/)~
• 
Big Adventur~ 
(;/.'{'\~c:, 
~~ee When: Thursday, Oct. 9 : Time: 9:30
•
: Where: LaFortune Lounge (1st floor)!~~ee. c:,i,,o(\ Door prizes including a $25 gift. : ~o~' certificate for the Bookstore : 
~ .............................................~ 
SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 
received an M.B.A. from Northwestern University; Ravindra Parashar, visiting in­structor. Parashar holds an M.A. from Delphi University and is an associate professor at the Uni­versidad de Las Americas in Puebla, Mexico. 
New faculty members in busi­ness include: Katherine Phelps, lecturer. Phelps was a graduate assistant at the University of South Carolina, where she is completing her Ph. D.; Donald Smith, lecturer. Smith earned an executive M.B.A. at the University of Notre Dame. He is currently employed by First Source Bank, South Bend. 
New faculty members in chemistry and physics include: Douglas E. Ecoff, visiting assis­tant professor. Ecoff holds a D.A. from the University of Northern Colorado. He was formerly a visiting professor at Davidson College. 
New faculty members in com­munication and theatre include: Leroy Kennel, visiting assistant professor. Kennel acheived a Ph. D. from Michigan State Uni­versity and is interim pastor at Kern Road Mennonite church, South Bend . 
New faculty in education in­clude: Corrine McGuigan, asso­ciate professor and chairman. McGuigan has a Ph.D. from the 


ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272-7144 
IfWe AddedAnyMore Beef,
We'd HaveTo BuyABiggerAd. 

\\'ith all of till· bed already in our Burrito Supreme;· it's hard to imagine adding any more. But we did. Our new Double Beef Burrit< >Supreme has twice as much seasoned ground beef as our regular Burrito Supreme-for a bigger, beefier taste. 
\Xl'\·e even added these money-saving coupons to get you in to try one. In bet. if we added an~ thing else you'd need a bigger mouth. 
The Cure for the Common Mea[


-------, -------, 
Purchase a 
$l 99
1Double Beef Burrito Supreme I I Double Beef B~rrito Supreme I 
at the re~lar price and dMedi n..:~l-; 

I get aregular taco FREE. I I an .urn tull\. I 
!'leN: prL·~nt this 0 >Up< >n when I I PleaSL' presL'nt this wupon when I "rLkring. Limtt: One · ortlaing. Limit: One Luupun J'LT 1-isit. n>upun per visit. 
Nut g,x,,J wtth any • • I I Not gouJ with any I 
other oth:r. -.. .-other offer. Cash rL·,Iemptilln 1-alue ~ Cash redemption l'alue is I/20th Cl'nt. ()md ~~~co I I is l/20th cent. Gu,>d ~~~co I 
<>nly at participating 1ft only :tt :a~ti~tpati~g . I ft T:t<:u Rdl' rL·staur:mts. 1JELL T:K_~, ~II ~Lst,ntr,mts. 1JELLI Utter L'xpiTL·s 11/30/86. , I LOfkr LXptrLs 11/30/86. " I
._ _____... _____... 
University of Idaho and was an assistant professor at Saint John's University; Freda Dysert, lecturer. Dysert has an advanced degree in education from In­diana State University and is a former teacher at Indiana Labo­ratory School and Ball State Uni­versity; Arthur Lambert, lecturer. Lambert holds a M.A. from San Jose State College. 
New faculty members in gov­ernment include: John Kearnes, visiting assistant professor. Kearnes earned a Ph. D. at the University of Utah and was an as­sistant professor at the Univer­sity of Minnesota. 
New faculty members in math­ematics include: David Red­mond, visiting associate profes­sor. Redmond received his Ph.D. from the University ofIllinois and is a lecturer at Saint Patrick's Col­lege, Maynooth, Ireland. 
New faculty members in the modern languages include: Julie Storme, assistant professor. Storme completed her Ph.D. at Northwestern University and was an assistant professor at the Uni­versity of New Orleans; Odette Menyard, lecturer. Menyard com­pleted a D.U.E.L. 1 and 2 from L'Universite de Tours, France; Ruth Tulchinsky, lecturer. Tul­chinsky holds an M.A. from the University of Notre Dame. 
New faculty members in phi­losophy include: Douglas D. Cor­bitt, lecturer. Corbitt is working toward his Ph. D. at the University of Chicago, where he was for­merly a teaching assistant; Holly Graff, lecturer. Graff completed her Ph. D. at the University of Il­linois and was formerly assistant professor at the University of Pit­tsburgh. 
New faculty members in physi­cal education include: Debra Anne Laverie, lecturer. Laverie is currently working towards an 
M.B.A. at the University of Notre Dame. She is also head tennis coach at Saint Mary's; Kay Slat­tery, instructor. Slattery recently attended Indiana University at South Bend and now works through Pro Health at the Nor­wood Country Club. 
New faculty members in psy­chology include: Cheryl Meyer visiting instructor. Meyer comes to Saint Mary's from Miami Uni­versity, where she was a visiting assitant professor while com­pleting work on her Ph. D. 
New faculty members in religi­ous studies include: Richard Al­len, lecturer. Allen holds a Ph. D. from the University of Notre Dame and is sponsoring editor of the University of Notre Dame Press; Bonita Raine, lecturer. She received her Ph. D. from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, and is a member of the staff at Logan Center. 


Bernard Kalb resigns post 
Associated Press 
-Former newsman Bernard Kalt resigned Wednesday as chief spokesman for the State Depart­ment over a reported effort by the Reagan administration to mislead the news media on Libya. 
"Faith in the word of America is the pulsebeat of democracy," Kalb told a farewell news confer­ence. He will be succeeded by his deputy, Charles Redman. 

Kalb, 64, held the job for nearly two years after a long career with The New York Times, CBS and NBC. He said his choice was "whether to allow myself to be absorbed in the ranks of silence, whether to vanish into unopposed acquiescence, or to enter a modest dissent." 
Asked about Kalb's resigna­tion, President Reagan said late Wednesday, "No one on our side has been lying to anyone." 
The Observer 

Thursday, October 9 , I 986, -page 4 

Female emotions lead judgements 
By MARY-SARAH REARDON by their feelings." Freud may be sions differently. Kohlberg put News Staff long dead but his opinion about moral judgement into six stages women is still widely held, Griffin of development. The sixth, or ul­
Are women capable of making said. timate stage to reach in his scale sound moral decisions, or are Griffin said she agrees with is justice, the ability to judge ob­they too sentimental to look at Freud, and that the main differ­jectively. moral problems objectively? ence between men and women Gilligan, a modern feminist Leslie Griffin, assistant professor is that women use more emotion who wrote In A Different Voice, of theology at Notre Dame, in their judgements. believes this scale is unfair be­raised this question at a lecture Because men have dominated cause it does not apply to wo­on "Women and Morality" Wed-philosophy for so long, male men. Instead, Gilligan set up her nesday afternoon in Stapleton standards of morality have been own scale, 1in which the woman Lounge at Saint Mary's. accepted as the correct behavior. passes through three stages. In 
Philosophers have often Griffin said she believes that wo-the first stage the woman is often represented women as too emo-men have different standards of selfish, and she looks out mainly tional to make objective deci-morality than men; therefore, if for herself. In the second stage sions, Griffin told the mostly-.judged according to the male she feels so much responsibility female crowd of I 00. standards, women do appear in-to others that she neglects her­
Aristotle, St. Thomas Aquinas, ferior from a moral standpoint. self. In the third and final stage and Sigmund Freud, for exam-This use of emotion is not nee­the woman finds a good balance pie, all believed that women have essarily wrong, according to Grif­of the two. She can balance her trouble making moral decisions fin, just different. responsibility to herself and to because they are less rational Griffin used two modern others. than men, Griffin said. philosophers, Lawrence Griffin's lecture was the fourth 
Freud stated this belief most Kohlberg and carol Gilligan, to in a series of lectures on "Issues simply when he said, "Women demonstrate her point that men Facing Women In The Church" are more influenced in judgment and women make moral deci-given weekly at Saint Mary's. 
THE ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY NEEDS 90 STUDENT TICKETS TO AIR FORCE GAME_ WE ARE PAVING $10 FOR TICKETS AT JAMAICA GENERAL MEETING ON THURS_, OCT 9 AND WILL RETURN THEM ON FRL.. OCT 10_ WE ARE WORKING 
WITH THE TICKET OFFICE AND ONL V NEED YOUR TICKET BOOK FOR ONE DAY_ WE DO NOT NEED YOUR ID_ THANKS! 

Univenity of Notre Dame 

Foreign StudyPrograms 



Jerusalem 

Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments 
NOW RENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Office at 820 ND Ave 234-6647 Call Anytime 
Organizational Meeting 
NOTRE DAME INVENTORS CLUB 
Thursday, October 9, 7:00pm 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
for more info CALL PROFESSOR NEE X7003 
IMUL TICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL 
TODAY'S EVENTS  
FRIDAY, OCTOBER lOth  
• Lithography Display  Snite Museum at 9:00  
•St. Francis Shoppe Display  Library Foyer from 9-4  
• Ethnic Clubs  Fieldhouse Mall 12:00-1  
•Fireside Chat with Dr. James Bellis  
Dr. Bellis will be discussing  
Africa  ISO Lounge at 12:00  
• Multicultural Dinners  Dining Halls 4:45-6:45  
•Lecture by Billy Mills  
Billy Mills will be discussing Indian  
Cultures and the movie  
"RUNNING BRAVE"  Washington Hall at 8:00  
TASTE  OF  NATIONS  ETHNIC  

FESTIVAL COMING SOON!!!! 
z ALL SENIORS GOING TO -0 --,JAMAICA-­
..... 

Mandatory Meeting Thurs. Oct 9
z 




7:00pm in Washington Hall
u.l 

..... Room assignments and day of departure 
..... 

< 
will be discussed, and free trips will be raffled off~. Please attend. 
/ 
ALL COUPONS ARE TO BE PRESENTED WHEN RDERING OR COUPON WILL BE INVALID. ONE COUPON PER ORDER. 
------------------------~,---------------~ ---~---------... 
16" ORIGINAL 1 13" ORIGINAL 
ONE PIZZA ONE PIZZA 
I 
Double Topplngs-2 Items or More 1 Double Topplngs-2 Items or More 

$1oo I 50c
OPP Plus I 01. R.C. Cola I OPP Plus I Qt. R.C. Cola 
With Any (21tema or More) Pizza With Any 16" Deluxe or Supreme Original Original 
~0· MAMMA'S Plaza 
~01 MAMMA'a PIZZA 
._. .,, •....·.·.·.·.-.-.·.-.·.v.-.-.·.·.-.-.-.-.·.·····_,•._..,_._._...,.-.........·.·.·.·.·.-.-.·.v.•J".-...._._...............,......,.._._."""-"-..._._......,........._..._..-.....-.-.•.·.-.·.·.·.-.-.-.·.-,..·.·.·.-.-.v.-.·.-.-.v.•.·,..•.•.,.....•., .....·.·.·.-.·.-.·.·.y·•·········Y····*"···v·············· 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------____..._------------------... -. --------­
-1 
::r
.,. 
0 
.,."' c:r ., 
<
.,.
., 
-l ::T !: 
til 
0. 
Ql 
:<: 0 
(') 
0 
0" 
(1) 
.... 
\0 
-
\0 
CXl 
pl 
5l 
~ 
(JT 
--~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 6 
limit our imports and of course

Quotas 
we need to do it in an intelligent 
continuedfrom page 1 
responded to questions from the audience. He said, "I see the basic issue, thus, is one of realism versus unrealism." 
Culbertson criticized the Reagan Administration's at­tempts to reduce the trade deficit by decreasing the value of the dollar. "A reduction in the value of the dollar reduces our stan­dard of living," he said. 
Culbertson said, "We need to way." 

He characterized present protectionist efforts as "too little too late." He added a long-term commitment is necessary if American industry is going to benefit and jobs are going to be saved. 
Culbertson received his Ph. D. in economics from the University of Michigan. He is an economist with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and consultant to the Federal Reserve 

;..-..--_,..-.....,.._..-......,_.,.._......,._....,_.,.._......,.~...,..._,.._.,_...,...~_,---_,...~_,---_,...~---_,.~~...... __ __ ...... ...... ........... 
211 E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm -2:00am 
~o(\ "o~ co~ $1.00 off entranee fee ~0~ 
Bank of St. Louis, the Subcom­mittee on International Finance 


Breath Parietals 
of the House Banking and Cur­rency Committee. continuedfrom page 1 continuedfrom page 1 Culbertson is the ninth 
"We're not out there to nab stu­for open discussion of the three speaker in the Joseph P. Molony dents while they're driving. The parietals proposals.Memorial Lector series spon­
purpose of the tests is to give The CLC also decided that the sored annually by the Notre 
students a chance to see where next meeting will be open to the Dame Economics Department 
they register and compare that public. As Montanero said, "You and the United Steelworkers of to the state legal limit," he said. (The Observer) can come next America. 
time as was our wish all along." "It's an eye-opening experience "Dr. Goldrick (Associate Vice Molony, who had previously for most people how little it takes !'resident for Residence Life) was 
lectured at Notre Dame, was a to get to those levels where you one of the strongest proponents vice-president of the United could be legally drunk,'' he of having The Observer there," Steelworkers union. added. Montanero said. 
Do you desire to live and to explore further in your life the ideals of Christian service and community as a lay person? 
:::: If so, we invite you to consider 
rnogh~~~~~~i~~~~~sci~~~,fn~: 
l ~~~:~·f~~~:6 Jane Pitz ~~ 
t Center for Social Concerns HCA Office f \J (7949J (5521J .I 
~?:.::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::.;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
After your lastexam, what toughquestions will you stnl be facing? 
W: don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact 

Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556-0541 (219) 239-6385 

320 WestSouth Bend's Mitchell's JeffersonTotal ----··---­South BendEntertainment Indiana center Indiana Club 134-5313 featuring---·-·---1 • Top In Live Music & Video Entertainment Top 40 Rock Wed. through Sat., Open 9 P. • Blues Every Other Monday • Food Service Till Midnight • The Ultimate in Nostalgic Nite Clubs D.J. ~ 50's & 60's Music, Open 7 P.M. Daily • Food Service Till Midnight Coming Attractions: Monday, Oct. 13 ­Reggae • IPSO FACTO Monday, Oct 20 ­Blues Monday ­Lonnie Brooks Most Excitin new Talent in Blues  Island Club Bus Round Trip-$70 Reservations can be made between 7 and 9 pm on Thursday, October 9, in the basement of LaFortune. Payment must be made in full at this time. Any Questions: Tomx1310 Mikex3122 Mary Grace x2735 Mattx4362  



"ie~~_O_i_D__t____________T-hurs~da~-octo-ber9_.19-s6.~-pag~e7 
Summit talks to offer nothing new for U.S. 
Well, Dallas beat Miami Vice in their first ratings confrontation much to the dismay to those of us who feel that Don Johnson's acting abilities rival at least those of Oliver's or Stallone's. 
Moving on to less pressing matters, the White House announced the dates for a meeting between President Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev to take place in Iceland (where else?). All of this comes on the heels of a dangerous prec­edent set by both countries. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
As everybody knows, the Soviet Union kidnapped one Nicholas Daniloff, an American journalist, and accused him of being a spy. This is not a good sign for those of us headed to Moscow for Fall 
Break. Well, as all of us good, red­blooded Americans know, Daniloff was just an innocent American who happened to be carrying a brief-case full of Soviet maps marked secret. The United States traded a convicted Soviet spy, Gennadi 
Zakharov, for the release of Daniloff. 
Apparently the Soviet Union can kidnap 
any American citizen and hold him 
hostage until the United States releases 
a Soviet spy. Obviously the USSR has 
stumbled on to something here. What is 
really mystifying here is that Reagan and 
his "no compromise" attitude toward 
foreign affairs has fallen apart in what 
amounts to an act of terrorism by the 
Soviet Union. 
Can you imagine the frustration and 
anger of the families that have close re­
lations being held hostage in Lebanon? 
It almost appears that they have been 
forgotten. When Daniloff gets kidnapped 
for bribery purposes it is a national crisis. 
It should be. However, the lives of those being held hostage are no less important than Daniloff's. The families and the hostages are being betrayed by their own government. Where is the justification? 
Now after being used by the Soviet Union to achieve their purpose, Reagan is going to meet Gorbachev to discuss arms control. My spine is tingling already. The last time these two met the major story involved the fashion styles of the wives of the two most powerful men in the world. 
Excuse me for being cynical, but recent events and previous meetings between the two superpowers have left a bad taste in my mouth. Both men will sit down and discuss the enormous amount of nuclear weaponry their countries possess. Then they will agree to a minimal reduction (if any) and set a date for the next meeting. What we have are two men who have shown no honest commitment to nuclear disarmament. Instead we have a presi­dent who is interested in leaving a mark In the history books and a General Sec­retary who is attempting to gain an ad­vantage in the propaganda war. 

What is the net result ofall ofthe activity of the past few weeks? First of all, the United States has started a dangerous policy of trading spies for innocent Americans. Secondly, the present admin­istration must have aliented any of those who are associated with the American citizens being held hostage in Lebanon. The neglect shown to these innocent Americans is frightening. 
About the only result of the upcoming meeting is an assured boom in Iceland's tourism. They picked a good time, I hear it is the slow season in Reykjavik. Will anything of any significance happen in Iceland? Probably not, unless the two ladies appear. As for me, I have a good feeling that Crockett and Tubbs will over­take the Ewings. 
Brian Broderick is a junior government mCjjor and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Women priests offer advantages to Church 
No one has ever given me a single theological reason why women should not be allowed to become priests. At best. the reasons why they should not be al­lowed are based totally on tradition, not on anything rooted in doctrine. 
Chris Julka 
in plain english 
Is it that men are better befit the Euc­harist. because they are somehow in­trinsically more "holy" than womeni If anything, it could be argued that the op­posite is true, at least in terms of or­thodoxy: polls show, for instance, that more women oppose abortion than do men. 
Does the reason women cannot be­come priests today lie in the historical fact that Jesus did not make any women his priests? This does not have to mean anything-Jesus never said it did. At most. one can only validly attribute his decision to either pure coincidence or to the dom­inant role of men in the society of that time. Not only, for instance did Jesus ap-
Doonesbury 
point no women to the original apostolic offices, but he also appointed no Gen­tiles. Has the Church taken this to mean that no Gentiles could ever become priests? Of course not. If it had, Father Hesburgh and most of the members of the Holy Cross order would be out of a 
job, and instead of being the "Home of the Fighting Irish," Notre Dame would have to be called "Home of the Fighting Jews." 
Ifno one wants historical precendence, look at Jesus' mother and Mary Mag­delene, for starters, both of whom had an active role in the early Church. Look at the long litany of canonized women and female mystics. Look at Mother Theresa today. If certain prelates are worried that the clergy might somehow become ruined if women were allowed to become priests, one might ask if the clergy can really become that much worse with women than it already is with only men. 
Some ofthe most diehard conservative, fundamentalist Chrisitan sects allow wo­men to become priests. Even the Anglican Church, which is in many ways today like the Catholic Church was before Vatican 

GU£55 WHO's 
FURJHERMOR&,
HO/JJON 

RUNNINGA6AINST
6lAJNY' 
6UC5S tt/HAT NO/
70 YOlJR 

LAC£YAS7HI5
HOM/siT 
H/5 CAMPA/6N I .
HAT, 6/RJ...I 

YfAR5 SAC/lJFIOAL NO!
601N6~ 
/5~/S?
f 

CAN/1/{l/JJE I
\ 

l, 
II, has said that there is no theological 
reason whatsoever why women should be barred from the priesthood: what stands in the way is simply ecclesiastical tradi­tion, which exists because of accidents of history. If the Catholic Church could do away with many of the traditions which have had no theological foundation in the Second Vatican Council, why can it not do the same with this particular tradition as well? 
The advantages to the Catholic Church of admitting women to the priesthood would be many. By doing so, for instance, the Church would demonstrate dramati­cally that It is notjusta gentleman's social club, as many claim, but a genuine Church of God, which takes Its commis­sion from God so seriously that it is willing to constantly re-evaluate those traditions which merely happen to be comfortable at the time to see if they are indeed in accord with what God has revealed to us. Appointing women to the priesthood would be an acknowledgment of the in­dispensable role which women have played and continue to play in the Church. And this would enable the Church to show that it does not make its pronouncements against abortion and adultery simply be-
Garry Trudeau 

cause it is a man's Church, as many groups masquerading as the represen­taives of the majority of women would 
To show that I am not simply a voice crying in the barren wilderness but have something concrete and practical in 
mind, I would like to make the following 
proposal. IfNotre Dame has the boldness 
to spurn the Vatican on the issue of abor­
tion, by having Father Hesburgh get 
chummy with Mario Cuomo, a political supporter of abortion, and feels free to contradict theVatican on the issue of faith and morals, by reappointing a gay atheist as a theology professor for graduate stu­dents, why can't It take a single, simple initiative with regard to admitting women to the priesthood? The condoning of abortion, homosexuality, and atheism contradicts the very doctrine of the Cath­olic Church; allowing women to become priests, on the other hand, would be simply to break with a tradition, for which no one can give a single theological rea­son why it exists in the first place. 
Chris Julka is a junior American Studies mCjjorand a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 

~ 
"He that is without sin 
,
among you, Jet him first cast 
,
a stone." 
John8:7 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-In-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Unlver· Sports Editor . •.............. Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll slty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger ......•.•. Mark Welmholt the Editorial Boerd. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor • ..............•. Mark Pankowski OCN Manager • ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space Ia available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1888 

-




Accent 
e 


erna IODa 
e



er1ence
r 
r r 
r 

Tile Obsener/Fred Doble 

Scott Bearby Is the new International secretary for Circle K. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
TileObsener/Fred Doll!; 

Scott Blcha was appointed the new International trustee. 


GINA CAMERENA 
features writer 

For the first time in almost 25 years two members of the Circle K Club from a single university have been elected to interna­tional positions. Junior Bearby was appointed club's International Trustees as in tary and sen appointed tee. 
Circle 
give to organi Clubs. The of Circle K at the nearby has, in previous with the handicap for the i11jured on campus. 
However, one of the Club's main objectives this year is to assist at the Special Olympics In­ternational Games which will be held on the Notre Dame campus next summer. The Club hopes to help through fund raising and volunteer work. 
Both Bearby and Bicha's careers as international officers began when they were elected to their positions during the annual international convention which was held in Boston this year. The convention itself serves to vote 
rou 
on proposed programs, award club members for their services and to elect new officers. 
ington to vi part of the Northwest district. 
As international secretary, Bearby is the student represen­tative for budget and finance. t1e helps to develop guidelines for the upcoming year and works with the high school Key Clubs. 
Bearby feels Circle K is a very active and independent club on campus. "We either succeed or fail on our own," he said. 
This year he is working on the "Plus 1987" project hoping to in­itiate 1,987 more members to bring the membership close to 12,000. Bearby is also helping to revise the club's constitution to meet 1980's standards. 

''I'm going through an exciting time and can see the improve­ments," said Bearby. "You can develop your own leadership skills by giving to the community and campus." 
Like Bearby, Bicha became in­voly~d in Circle K through the K¢y<:;lub. He was further inspired 
join the organization when he attended a district convention in S,pokane, Washinqton. 
decided then that I really 
_Jed to get involved," said 6it.ha. t1e currently serves as one oftht! nine trustees on the inter­
tiona! board. 
ne of Bicha's goals this year is to make a larger impact on the college campus. 
w"Ifyou were involved in the Key Club," said Blcha, "Circle K is a good way to get involved in a college ct~b because you already have knowledge of how the club 
tunctions. Anyone can join to develop themselves and serve others." The Circle K Club meets every Wednesday in St. Ed's t1all in the lounge. 
Through Circle K Bicha said he is learning leadership skills, public speaking and working with peers. 
"''m learning more through Circle K than from any book be· cause I'm living the education rather than reading about it," said Bicha. 


 
Thursday, October 9, 1986, -pages 8 -9  
Does anybody care? University Counseling Center does PAUL ANDREW CIMINO selves thought best. Certain un­ships. Many people have realized features writer usable ideas were quickly cut the center's value as is evident ("Joe's Place" being one) and from Utz's full schedule of ap­As one approaches the third after some .deliberation the pointments. Even so, Utz was noor landing in the University In­name University Counseling quick to note that the center is firmary, a profound quiet is Center was chosen. not usually thought ofas a viable noticable and it hangs in the air Utz feels that the new name is option by many students. like a great weight about to fall. a more correct appraisal of the Whether the agency's image, Yet, on the other side of the door services offered by the center. "I with help from the name change, at the landing lies a world filled want us to be seen as highly com­is being perceived from a better with caring people who are ready petent, interested and caring educated viewpoint is not yet dis­to serve the Notre Dame commu­professionals. Everyone on the cernable. nity-if given the chance. This is staff comes from the doctoral "I think more and more stu­the image which the newly level and they represent the top dents are seeing us as a positive  

crowned University Counseling Center (formerly Psych Services) is trying to project. 
"Basically it (the name change idea) started as a marketing proj­ect that six business students were working on last year," said Patrick Utz, director ofthe center. "They worked on a project to market the center and this is one of the ideas they came up with." 
The students originally did not plan to suggest a name change. However, as part of the project the suggested name change was determined to be beneficial to the center's image among stu­dents. 
Eventually a poll was taken of both students and faculty to find a suitable name. Suggested names had to emphasize the broad counseling orientation the center offered as well as show a navor for what students them-schools in the country," he said. He also said that the center wishes to be seen as covering a broad spectrum of problems and that it is specifically for the Notre Dame family. 
"We only see students for in­dividual counseling," Utz said. "However, we have programs for everybody. So, for example, fac­ulty and staffcall us for consulta­tion. We'd like to think that fac­ulty members would call us into the classroom to do a program on stress management or other topics." 
Utz also mentioned some of the different problems for which the center offers counseling. "People come to us to get help for many problems," he said. The problems include such things as deep depression, alco­hol abuse and advice on inter­personal and family relation-resource and in this respect the name change is consistent with our philosophy," said Utz. 

The center has also undergone some other, purely physical changes during the past year. Al­cohol counselor Peggy Cronin retired and three others left for other opportunities, leaving the staff somewhat short-handed. 
"I think we brought in a really high-powered staff," Utz said. "The staff change was not planned but just became neces­sary for various reasons. I am very delighted with our team and I think the new people are going to fit in well." 
The center has also begun a Doctoral Internship Program in conjunction with the Oak Lawn mental health facility in Elkhart. The program allows prospective 
Tile ObMner/Mike Moru Tom Brian counsels for alcohol abuse at the counseling center. 
clinical and applied psyc­A 13 year-veteran of university hologists who wish to work in a mental health, Utz said he finds university environment to intern it very satisfying when a person 
at Notre Dame for three days a with some difficulty is able to week. On the other two days, the conquer it with a little counsel­interns work at Oak Lawn while ing. finishing their doctorate dis­
"It's nice to get a letter back sertations. 
and have someone say they are "In terms of the University, doing just fine, "Utz said. having this internship is a great 
The University Counseling thing," Utz noted. "We may be Center is located on the third able to get approval from the floor of the Infirmary and open 
American Psychological Associa­Monday through Friday from 9 tion this year which would rec­a.m. to 5 p.m. Services are ognize us as a first-rate service usually by appointment and all facility and a training agency. contacts are confidential. 
'Crimes of the Heart' a criminal success 

Tbe Observer /Marxaret Mannion 
Flirtatious Meg with her old flame Doc Porter. 

JENNIFER KROLL 
features writer 

The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre began its 1986-87 season last night with a delight­fully entertaining production of Beth Henley's Pulitzer Prize win­ning comedy, "Crimes of the Heart." 
Henley's play, a comedy, was brought to life by a small but ex­tremely exuberant cast of actors. Not a moment stood still. From the very opening scene of "Crimes" the audience was catapulted into the not-so­tranquil lives of the three Magrath sisters, Babe , played by Jeannie O'Neil, Meg , played by Holly Becker, and Lenny , played by Jenny Rode. 
Babe, the youngest of these three southern-belle sisters has just shot her husband, Senator Zackery Botrelle, as the play opens. She has been bailed out of jail and is returning to her childhood home which is cur­rently occupied by her plain and practical older sister, Lenny. The wild and rebellious middle sister, Meg, is also returning home after unsuccessful years spent trying to make a name for herself in Hollywood. The girls hire lawyer Barnette Lloyd , played by Mark Costanzi, to clear Babe's name. In the process ofhis questioning the audience discovers the very amusing details surrounding Babe's crime. 
Complicating the situation even more for the sisters is the presence their hilarious and ridiculously overbearing cousin, Chick. played by Mary Kay Sheid. Adding to the confusion is Doc Porter, played by Duane Difranco, an old boyfriend of Meg's who managed to acquire a limp during dubious circum­
Onstage==d 
~~ 

'Crimes of the Heart' 
stances involving Meg and a hur­ricane. As if this all weren't enough to make for an amusing storyline, the sisters are also continually haunted by the memory of their mother who hung herself and the family cat simultaneously and by a pushy grandfather who is (finally!) dying in the hospital. 
"Crimes of the Heart" is a won­derfully funny performance and well worth seeing. The actors and actresses convey the intricacies of their complex relationships well and it is refreshing to see how much they all seem to enjoy their roles. 
"Crimes of the Heart" will be showing at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:10p.m. Tickets are on sale at the O'Laughlin box oftlce. 
-

I The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, · page I 0 
counted for the lone doubles The Irish won't have much time Ohio, members of the MAC con· continue to do." 
win. The pair defeated Mary to relish the victory since they ference, so Gelfman is not sure A win over Ohio would give the Foote and Sheila Murray 6-4, 6-3. play host this weekend to Ohio what to expect. But she is sure Irish some much-needed mo­
Gellman 
continuedfrom page 16 
Alice Lohrer and Natalie Illig lost University on Friday at 3 p.m. of her game plan. mentum against Purdue. The the better team; it was simply a to Lynn Davis and Jenny Luke, and Purdue on Saturday at 9 a.m. "We can't underestimate match with the Boilermakers is matter of going out and proving 6-4, 6-4 and Michelle Dasso and All matches will be played at the anyone," said Oelfman. "We've expected to be very close, but it." Stephanie Tolstedt came up Courtney tennis courts behind got to play to the best of our the Irish have an excelllent op­
Irish co-captain Tammy short against Meg Mulcahy and the ACC.. ability. That's what we've done portunity of evening up their Schmidt and Resa Kelly ac-Jackie Prescott, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. The Irish have never faced all season and that's what we'll record. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Coflge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live
Classifieds 
characters per day. 
I NEED A RIDEIII Driving to Boston need 2 PSU tlx will trade 2 AF GA's 
AIR FORCE! SENIORS: FOR 1987-69, CONSIDER Reminder: on Sunday the 19th or Saturday night or top all offers Ill mike -2386 In a panic! Need 3 GA's WITH CROSS DEADLINE FOR URBAN PLUNGE
WORK HOLY AS·
NOTICES 
the 18th? I will pay lor gas II you can 

Please call Lisa 284-4276. SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP­APPLICATIONS
•a get me there. Call Joe at 3338 II Inter­Need 2 PITT GA's.Have 1 AF GA and IS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10
PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CALLTYPING AVAILABLE ested. 
I 
$$.Call Mark £1466. desperately need 4 Air Force GAs, MARY ANN ROEMER (7949) OR JANE 3:00P.M. AT C.S.C
287-4082 
Tony 2086 PITZ (5521 ). CALL 239-7943 FOR MORE INFO RIDERS NEEDED TO ANDOR FROM 
NEED MORE PENN ST. GA'S, BAD I 
NASHVILLE AREA TO SHARE EXP. 

FRED 269-9225 Mom and Dad from Great White North "WANT TO WRITE A BOOK" ? I NEEDSAME-DAY TYPING 
LEAVE OCT 20 RETURN OCT 26 CALL are coming South for A.F. game and HELPII 15 years of study has gone ONLY TWO DAYS LEFT, SENIORS!!!!
NO Plck·up RICH X2024 
NEED 2 PITT TIX EVEN WORSE I FRED NEED two GA's. PLEASE make them Into data & research. SubjectQuick·Type, Inc. 
289·9225 feel warm, call Jim 4108 diet-nutrition. Would like underclas­
277-8998 I need a ride to Dallas lor October '''..SENIORS'''''
smen, graduate student or laculty break.Call Andrew If you can help. ONLY TWO DAYS LEFT!!!
Please Please Please Need 1 Pitt Student ticket Call Ed member talented In writing. Reply to: 1091. Sail me 2 Pitt student tlx £1883 ND Boxholder, P.O. Box 33, Osceola,
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING Sign-up for 
(or die) Indiana 46561
CALL DOLORES 2n-&131. MOM & DAD· I'm trying to find PltvAir SENIOR REFLECTION GROUPS
Hiil'P...w'Aioil-'iiii...;;."AFir::r;"M'E:..c:aP.1: But at least your wallet will be latte•· Force GAs. Jim 2304. at lhe CSC until Friday
when you pass away... "Why did Babe shoot Zachary?" Call Marty at 234·1873 after 9:00 "Cause she didn't like his looks, she 
PUTER STORE. CALL 2n·5026. You'll be glad you did!!! 
Professional word processing and PLEASE SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE 
typing. Convenient location on N.lron­GAs ONCE AND FOR ALL AND QUIT
i>~t;ii~j;;~ ..;;;;;i:;··j;;rt:i;;;;;··;·~-~-~~~~-~i: just didn't like his stlnkln looks." These and other aarlous philosophical
wood. Call NICS 2n-4220. 232·3134 after 3 p.m. WHINING ABOUT IT! CALL 234-4642 Can anyone name two successful 
DRUIDS ARE COMING thoughts In CRIMES OF THE HEART,
and ASK FOR TRIPPIIIIIIIII! football programs that Eddie White
t.i;;;;;i;;d:iiid;~;··i~···N:ii·:··~;..;-;;v:;;h;;~ to worship at Stonehenge. They would Oct. 8 thru 12, O'Laughlln Aud. and Jeff B!umb have been associated close call Joe at 2n-2194 with?
also like to see the Fighting Celtic 
I need one Air Force G.A. call Brian 
peoples destroy the barbarian cadets 
at 1n9
LOST/FOUND I 
RIDERS wanted to ST. LOUIS for Oc· ol Air Farce... Notre Dame Ia like the Green Bay 
NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK
Iober Break. CALL ROB at1151 NOWII Please Hll me two GAs and halp s PITT TIX Packers because (Rochester or I spend
STUDENT DESIRED!! Syracuse) or 
great religious cause. 1. Both teams last had great seasons
FOUND: Ona gold charm bracelet be­PLEASE CALL 4384; ASK FOR JOHN. Break In less than lovely Indiana leave tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at after the Air Force game will pay lor
Call Andy at 263-1650 under Dan Devine HELP! Ride Fell Through! Need ride 2. The subsequent coaches at each
1712 for positive J.D. coat and drive If necessary Call Eric 
to Connecticut October Break -Leave place had no coaching e~perlence In
I DESPERATELY NEED FIVE PITT GA at 1355 or 239-5303.
after game anytime. Going to 195 or NEED 4 PITT GA'S IN THE WORST their new league
FOUND!! KEYS, GLASSES, CAL· TIXS. CALL 2n-2761.
Merrlt Pkwy. Will share ride or take WAY.HAVE 1 PITT AND 1 AF STUD 3. Paul Horning did great things at
CULATORS, BOOKS... STILL LOCKED sales: looking for ambitious, sales or!·
riders for rental. Please call Dennis at TO SELL. MARK 1688. both places
OUT OF YOUR ROOM? GETTING WET HAVE 3 AIR FORCE GA'S will lrade entad persons to sell high quality gifts
263-4075 or 239-5095 or I may never 4. Green Bay, like NO, can only beat
EVERY TIME IT RAINS BECAUSE YOU for Penn St. or best offer by Wed. (nutstandy) to buslnesaes In the 
get homel!l I NEED SOME PITT GA'S WILLING TO taame from their home state
CAN'T FIND YOUR UMBRELLA? £1857 south bend area. earn extra holiday CHECK THE LOST AND FOUND OF· dollars In your free time between now
PAY$$$$$ PLEASE CALL DON X2266 5. Both teams often use several QB's EXPERIENCED PIZZA MAKER In the aame drive
FICEII FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE, FOR SALE STUDENT TIX FOR REST and xmas. ten percent commission OPEN MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, 8:01J. OF F·BALL GAMES 287·6728 BOB paid on all sales made. call weekday
WANTED. NIGHT SHIFTS. HOURLY 6. ND Ia also negotiating lor Jim 
PAY. APPLY IN PERSON. NICOLA'S Idesperately need 2 PENN STATE tick.. Everett 
RESTAURANT, 1705 SOUTH BEND ets. Please call Kathy at 4049. 7. Knute Rockne was born In Norway; 
12:00 AND 1:00-5:00 evenings: 2n·6342. 
STRANDED IN INDIANA FOR .. LOST: BLUE AND GOLD NO BOOK· CHRISTMAS! If I can't get 2 PENN Need riders to New York area lor
AVE. Green Bay Is also north of civilization SS WANTED SS PENN STATE GA'a
BAG .. CONTENTS: NOTEBOOK, STATE GA'S. Please help. Call John break. Leave Wad. or Thurs. Call Dave
RIDERS NEEDED: East on 1·90 up to TOM £283·1310
FOLDER, CALCULATOR, TEXTBOOK, 3373. at2n-0984. 
ETC... WHERE: NORTH DINING HALL 
Schenectady NY, Ken 277-6459 HELPII I NEED A RIDE FROM NOR­
MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY THERN NJ BACK TO NO AFTER GOING TO WASHINGTON, D.C. FOR YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR Pm OR BREAK. I CAN MEET YOU
., WHEN: 1G2-116 ., REWARD: $50.00 HELPIII I desperately need 1' student NEED RIDE TO ALLENTOWN,PA 
FOR NOTES AND FOLDER $100.00 and 2 GA tickets for Pitt. Please call AREA FOR BREAK. LEAVE FRI OR
BREAK? WANT TO LEAVE AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR ANYWHERE IN NJ. CALL FRANK 1502
FOR EVERYTHING NO QUESTIONS Mark at 272·1879 SAT. SHARE USUAL$. PLEASE CALL ASKED .. CALL: MIKE MELIA 329 SUE 1451.
THURSDAY? LOOKING FOR RIDERS GA'S) PLEASE CALL283·2493, JOHN. 
TO SHARE EXPENSES, RENT CAR.

ZAHM HALL 283-1111 SSS BEER NEED 1-6 AIR FORCE GA'S
CALL DONNA X4215 

IM DRIVING TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR Found: HIof keys. Room 202 and mall ································································ Wonton Soup will be preaant In your 
CALL SCOTT 1352 CONFUSIUS SAY ... Egg rolls and 
2 Air Force GA's for sale. Call 1·609-BREAK-NEED RIDE TO OR VICINITY? 
354-0227. CALL SUZETTE 233·5396.
key. On South Bend Tribuna key HELP! NEED TWO AIR FORCE GA'S luture. Go to the Taste ol Nations at chain. Found In CompMath building FOR THE PARENTS.BIG $ CALL 272· 8:00pm at Stepan Center on Saturday
FOR SALE 

I NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'SII 'RENTS I DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO
terminal room. II they're yours pleeaa 9340 and tell them the Wise One Hnl you.
WILLING TO PAY BIG$$, CALL MIKE PROVIDENCE OR EVEN BOSTON! 
ATtn911 WILL SHARE NORMA l EXPENSES! 
call 2129 to claim. 
HELP parents coming and I have no
TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER PLEASE CALL 34781
LOST: GOLD WATCH WITH CLIP tickets, they will suck out my liver If
RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Deperately need 2 ancYor 4 GA tickets
DIAMONDS ON DIAL.VALUABLE I don't get 2 or 4 GA'a for AIRFORCE: SHAKE IT UP BABY! TWIST AND PRIMARILY AS KEEPSAKE· CHOW! atthe Taste ol Nations Festival
FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272·5959. for Pitt game. Please call ludy or KT ...Let'e talk.....Graca Hall
CALL JEFF £1580
at 289-3716 If you can help. Debate....Starta soon.....
DECEASED SISTER'S WATCH. at Stepan Center at 8:00 pm. Twist real
81 FORD GRANADA 6 CYL AIR

MOREAU HALL-REGINA NEED 2 SMU GA's Call Karen 272-5783 fine and win your baby and you a din·
POWER EXTRA CLEAN NO RUST I need 3 lor Air Force please! Molly Men Interested In experiencing lila In
HALL.REWARD. CALL SR. MARIA ner out on the town. 
284-4490 Lots SSSS
$2950 272-6890 284-5123. a Benedictine monastery during all or part of fall break call Br. Mark 239­
I need 3 ga'a or student tlx for Air amERIKA becomes amERIKAN
1974 VW Bua and 1974 VW Need 2 GAs for Air Force 6187.
FOUND -pair ol wire-rimmed aun­Forca game. Pleaaa call RJ at 2129. TODAYII Help her celebrate tonight!
Squareback. Both have good engines, Call Jim at 283-1874glaaaaa outside the stadium after the 
bodies, Interiors, little rust. Depend· Mark your calendar,SENIORSI!I
Michigan game. In a brown case. Call PSU PEUKS coming out lor game! KAREN Q. HALL-I Love You.
able student cars. Call 239-7838 daya, Thursday, October 9 Is Senior Class
£1208 to claim. 
Need MEGA PENN STATE tlx. N11r11e
233-5852 nlghtl. Highest offers. 2 PENN STATE GA'S NEEDEDIIP!eese Night at 
your price, GA or STUD. Warren HELP! Need ride totrom ROCHESTER 
call Jill at 272-4383 II you can help. BARNABY'S on Grape Roed
Lost-To the girl who found my credit (£1208)11 lor braak-wlll pay $-CALL KAREN 3588 cards at the Michigan game, I need 
FOR SALE-COMPLETE CAMERA SYS· 55 for all the beverages and pizza you 
TEM. INCLUDES KONICA EXCHANGE 1 OR 2 S.M.U. GA'S FOR can consume 
AUTOREFLEX TC, 50MM F1.8 LENS, PENN STATE GA'S. CALL 2n 0526 from 6:00PM to 9:00PM 
them. When you called I waa buzzed 
Two GA'a needed for PITT game • Call and did not remember your name, ao 288-6384 (Jane)
28-65MM F2.8 VIVITAR ZOOM,135MM

I don't know who to call. Pleaaa call ND SUNGLASSES NO SUNGLASSES
F2.8 VIVITAR TELE. $250 NEGTIABLE· 

NEED 4 PITT GA'S and 2 Stud. Tlx Call
me. Joe x2320 HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TlXS NEED 4 Pm NO SUNGLASSES call Jeff 3448
CALL PAUL2287. 

John: £1750 
TIXS, TRADE ONLY MIKE 2n-4980 Hewlett Packard calculator-SMC par­HAPPY BIRTHDAY CLARE VAN­
Need 2 student tickets for Pitt. Will
1-way return, Boston to S. Bend on Need 2 student tickets for Pitt. Will 
Piedmont Sun. Oct. 26. Call Mark 234-Hll my roommate'• flrat-bom lor HI! my roommate's llrat-born lorlor room HCC, name on back. If found Parents want to party at NO, Need 4 HECK..E 
call 284-5235. 
AF GA'a and 6 SMU GA's. Call Dave them. Call Mark at 2339.
8588. them. Call Mark at 2339. 
at 2271 HAPPY B·DAY CVH. Lost at Sunday dinner In South Dining 
EXCELLENT I WILL BE KILLED BY ANGRY AND
1982 CHEVETTE, Make sure my parents pay second ·se­
Hall a blue denim jacket with a leather Think of the moat beautiful girl In the LEVI tag. Greatly valued. Please call world, and than Imagine her In need HAPPY 20TH CLARE BARE, LOVE 2
SHAPE, 4 SPEED, $2500. CALL 2n-mester tuition ao I can get out ol thla IRRATIONAL PARENTS IF I DON'T FIND 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE HELP!Il
7456. place. Sell me 2 GAs for Penn Slate
Tara 272·5845. 
of two PENN STATE GA'I, then you COCONUTS.
CALL CHRISTY x3834 OR 3831 UNITED LIMO ROUND TRIP TICKET ao they can experience ND lootbell. 
understand my altuatlonl Don't youCall Mark at 2339. 
want to help her out? Call Janice at HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE
TO O'HARE $30 (45 VALUE). CALL WHAT DID YOU HONESTLY THINK OF
284-4095. TO MPLS. FOR OCT. BREAK. CALL
232-2438. PITT GA's....... 2 olthem have my name THE MUSIC AT YOUR LAST SYR? .. 
LEEANN 284·5439.

FOR RENT 
................................................................ on them! II you have them call Jim at . NOW CALL THE ONLY DJs THAT 2443 ssss MATTER FOR THE NEXT ONE. WE'RE 
RAMBO FANS! TO OUR FRIEND THE RA: HAPPY
PROFESSIONALS. WE GUARANTEEBED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR 
He needs three AIR FORCE GA'a Im­20TH CLARE BEAR. YOU'RE STILL
TICKETS 

HAVE ANY EXTRA PITT GA'S? I MUST QUALITY. CALL PAT MURPHY2n­
PARENTS FOR NOVEMBER GAMES mediately. Either catch him at the OUR FAVORITE RA. LOVE THE NON­
HAVE 2. WILL PAY SSSSSSSSSS ETC. 3667 TITO HIZON277·0973 DON
AND SPECIAL WEEKENDS. (1·219-weight room (you'll recognize him) or RA'SI
CALL x3834. SEYMOUR283·3675
291·7153). call him at 2274 and ask for Paul (his
SS I NEED 1·8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$

................................................................ real nama).
DAN 3273 PITT GAs FOR SALE.277..0296 Ride needed this Fri., Oct. 10, to Rosemont Horizon or Chicago area. 
TAILGATERI FIGHTING ZIPS VS ARE YOU FROM OREGON? (WHO?).
WANTED 
IN A PANICII Family coming In from Need 2 Air Force GA's call Maryann Can leave anytime Fri. P.M. Pleaaa call MTSUBLUERAIDERS BE Jersey and Ohio for PITT GAME· NEED 283-4350 Then you can Imagine what It means Sara at4188 or Mary at 2804. THERE FOR THE HO-HO'S AND BEER. 
to have your dad fly all the way In and GO ZIPS!
SIX TIX·GMiTUDI Staph 272·5417 have him see a NO football game. Help

Stud Tlx-AF, SMU, PS For Sale 255-Happy Birthday Marla!
SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is HELP! P.W. Partner(my boss) needs 4 me out by selling me your AIR FORCE NEED ANYONE
WE YOU! INTER· 
now hiring children's ski Instructors 1508 GAl Ask for Mike at 2443. Love Rob, George, Greg. 
ESTED IN KEEPING SCORE FOR THEGA & 2 student tickets for Pitt Oct. 11.
winter
for the season. Salary plus I love my job & my lllell Call Joanne siii:'i:lioio·;;·ii;;:·sid·:r·,~·i·ch~i~~:;;;::;64ii. HANDICAPPED BOWLERS OF 
room & board. Contact Martha Mandel 
(716)837·9176 I need 1 Pitt tlx call Dan x41 01 LOGAN CENTER JOIN US THIS 
or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911. Happy Birthday to our favorite room­
FRIDAY OR ANY FRIDAY. VAN I NEED PITT GA'S OR STUDENT TIX 
mate I NEED PITT GAS & ALL HOME NEED 2 PITT GA'S WILL PAY$$ CALL LEAVES HOLY CROSS AT SMC AT 
HELP! NEED A RIDE TO PHILA AREA CALL GARY 2252 Love Andrea and Maureen 3:20 AND PW AT 3:30. RETURN BY 8
-GAMES.272-6308 1599
AFTER AF GAME. WILL SHARE P.M. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 
.................................................................
USUAL. CALL TED X4074. 
I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.a. PLEASE COME AND MAKE SOME GREAT NEW
THE DUDE HAS 6 PITT AND8 AF OA'S. 
Hay 'black' Boy:
CALL MELISSA 283·3848. IF YOU'RE SERIOUS, CALL HIM. 232· FRIENDS! 
NEED RIDE TO MNPLS. 4 BREAK. 
PERSONALS Happy B-day
6153. NOBODY HAS EVER SEEN THE NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S·famlly'a first DUDE. HE MAKES NO EXCEPTIONS. Don'tlat big momma crush thoaallttle visit CALL 272·3463 after 9:30 WILL PAY$. KATHY X2891 
bones of yours. IT FINALLY HAPPENED! AM-ERIKA DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
The bird and the rest ol Keenan's 3rd CRETTON, THE SWISS MISS, HAS 
UNYC FOR THREE LOVELY NEED AIRFORCE GA'S WILL PAY CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
I NEED GA'a FOR PITT CALL MIKE £ CASH CALL X2288 floor. TURNED AMERICAN GODDESS! 
LAD!ES.LEAVE AFTER AIR FORCE, BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BASEBALL, HOT DOGS, APPLE PIE WILL BAKE COOKIES FOR THE RIDE 1658 AND CHEVROLETS AND CASES OF 
BESIDES SHARE DRIVING AND EX· Christian theology contradicts 
DESPARATELY NEED 3 PENN ST. PITT GA TfX NEEDED. WILL OFFER BUD CAN BE BROUGHT TO 1657 
PENSES. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 3714. Deuteronomy 28; theological antf.. ... D.C. PARTY BUS ... COME PARTY TURTLE CREEK W. CONGRATS ON
TICKETS, STUDENT OR GA. FAMILY TOP DOLLAR SSSSS Semltlam va. doctrine the YOUR WAY TO D.C. FOR BREAK ON
THANKS! the ol YOUR CITIZENSHIP! LOVE, US.
IS COMING FOR BIRTHDAY. PLEASE cell: SCOTT 277-3788 
"resurrection of the deed" taught by THE D.C. PARTY BUS, NOW ACCEPT· Need riders to Younge. Ohio area for Jeaua. Write: Mlcheel, P.O. Box 4475, lNG ONE·WAY RESERVATIONSII!
CALL MARY, 272·5783. LOST! LOST!
CALL MIKE 1570
Fall Break. Call Elaine 284-50n. South Bend, IN 48834-4475. 3380 OR KEVIN 
HELP A SOUTHERNER MY BROT· SATURDAY NIGHT Halp I I need 4 llx to Air Force game. HERS ARE COMING All THE WAY BIO BLACK LEATHER BELT 
Need ride to No. NJ for break. Janet Hungry? THE
Will pay SSS! Mary 2n-6033 FROM MURPHY NC TO SEE THE AIR Call YELLOW SUB· LOOKS LIKE SEATBELT
THANKS ST. JUDE
284-4348. MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours:
FORCE GAME.NEED 2 GA'S IF FOUND CALL ·SUSIE 
I need 4 Pitt OA'I ·John 283-1722 BAD.CALL DAN 3262 OR 3261 Monday ·Thuredlly Spm·12am; Friday 284-5097 
Need ride to Minneapolis lor October NUDISTSIATTENTION NUDISTS! (or 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 
break. Lel'llng Sunday. Call Fran at $SNEED 2 GAs FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 4 Pm OA'S FOR SALE beat offer by anyone) Have a great party! o-t 4pm-10pm. 
4404. CHRIS·1107U 3 p.m. Thureday £3482 muatc on a top profeeefonal sound IYatem. OJ with redfo,club lnd party Oofng to, near, or thru Atlanta? TO:Lendry Clement 
Ha.,. you taken the Princeton Review? I ~EED AIRFORCE OA'S. WILL PAY NEED STUGA TlX experlencell The Commlaloner ol Fun DMparltely need a ride lor Fall B-kl Be at the Church at noon-1'11 be waiting Make blgllme cash by aetllng me your TOP DOLLAR! PENN STATE 237 01118118E A PARTY HERO CaR Rob at 1548. Will more than 1hare Tom book from lt. call Mark at £4104. call: SCOTT 2n-3711 PATTY 214-51118. CHEAPLY CALL 237-11111811 ..,.,._. 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 , I986, -page I I 
URBAN PL& 
REMINDER: U.P. Allications Due ~ Friday, Oct. 1 0 3:00PM . ~ APPLICATIONS STILL AVAILABLE r\ for more info, call the esc \J I 
239-5293 " 
m 
I'll' 1'110!0 

Wally Joyner and the California Angels took a series at one game apiece. Details of Boston's series of pratfalls yesterday to allow the Boston 9-2 thrashing can be found below. 
Task the :Aroma of Romance ..... 
Tue Special: All you can eat Sirlotn Dnner fondue Style Wed Special: All you can eat Seafood Dtnner Fondue Style Thr Special: All you can eat Chicken Dinner Fondue Style 
Try our Chef's featured entrees Friday and Saturday eventngs 
..._.__ Discount Coupon---~ 
Th1s coupon en lilies yOu to tour dollars ott the total pnce 
ot your d1nner t1cket when ordenng two d1nners 
Th1S COLPJf1 camot oe used w1tn my other prOIT'Otl()f')(J! otter and 
only ore coupon oer IOI:Jie ll>crlk you 
~The Fondue Parlor~ 
100 Center Old &ewery Bu1id1ng  255-1526  
Mishawaka  Tue-Thr 5-9  
ReseNotiOOs Suggested  Fri & Sat 5-10  

DearLSAT 

lifesaver, 
<Excerpts from actual letters* Stanley H. Kaplan has received from satisfied LSAT-prep takers) 
"... I was quite pleased when I received my score (99th percentile). I am certain that I would not have done that well without taking the Stanley H. KaplanC:ourse:· 
. -Student from Gainesville, FL " ... Thank you so much! I was hoping to score dose to the 90th percentile, but that was a dream. Well, thanks to Stanley H_ Kaplan and my instructor, that dream has come true:· -Student from Seattle, WA Kaplan has more ''over 40' LSAT grads than any other test prep company anywhere. So if you want the best and most experienced in test prep-call Kaplan today! 'If YOU'D LIKE 10 IH'AD MORE LETTB!S LIKE THESf, COME VISIT US. 
IKAPLAN 
STAIILIY H.IAI'I.AIIIDIKAliOIW CDITII LID. 

JOIN OUR 12/6/86 LSAT PREP CLASS. NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 4li6:J7 Phone D9/Z72-41J5 
Red Sox to even up their American League playoff 
Student Alumni Relations Group and Student Government Present 
The 2nd Annual Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
WILLIAM D. WYRE
*Sports EditorL.A. Times *FormerSports Editor, 
Milwaukee Journal 
* 1966 Notre Dame Graduate Speakin2Un 
Careers in Sports Journalism 
Thurs. Oct 9 Library Auditorium 4pm 

Boston wins wild one with Angels to even AL series 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Dwight Evans' fifth­inning popup fell for a tie­breaking double and the Boston Red Sox won the battle of bad hops, blunders and bizarre plays to beat the California Angels 9-2 yesterday to even the American League playoffs at one game apiece. 
Every ball seemed like an ad­venture in Fenway Park's late af­ternoon sun and the swirling wind, and Evans' lucky double in the fifth put them ahead 3-2. The Red Sox broke the game open with three runs in the seventh, helped by three errors, and three more runs in the eighth, capped by Jim Rice's two-run homer, to gain a split at home in the first two games of the best-of-seven series. 
Game 3 is scheduled for to­morrow night in Anaheim, site of the next three meetings. 
The Red Sox bunched seven hits in the first two innings, in­cluding a leadoff triple by Wade Boggs and a following double by Marty Barrett, who had three hits, but managed only a 2-0 lead. Then, as the shadows crept across the infield, the Angels began creeping back into the game and they eventually tied it in the fifth on Wally Joyner's home run, the first ever by a rookie in a playoff game. 
But in the bottom of the fifth, with two outs and Bill Buckner on first base, Don Baylor drew a walk on a 3-2 pitch from starter and loser Kirk McCaskill that barely missed outside. 
Evans, hitless in the series, fol­lowed with a high pop ny behind second base. Shortstop Dick Schofield and second baseman Bobby Grich converged on it, both taking turns looking at the ball and each other. At the last moment Grich lunged back­wards for the ball, but it dropped for a two-base hit that allowed Buckner to score. 
The luck that enabled Boston to take the lead stayed with them in the top of the sixth. With one out, Grich singled and took second on Schofield's single off starter and winner Bruce t1urst. 
Bob Boone, the Angels' best career hitter against t1urst, lined a single to left and Rice came up _...... throwing. Grich rounded third in full stride, but suddenly stopped as third baseman Boggs cut off the throw. Boggs then threw to shortstop Spike Owen, nailing Grich as he scrambled back the base. 
Grich sprung to his feet, screaming at third base coach Moose Stubing. Grich threw his hands up in the air before slam­ming his helmet to the ground. 
,-~------­
1 
I 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page I 2 

A man named Jack has got her Jumpin' and the world may never be the same! 
I I ­I I I I 
I I I 




FLASH 

AN ADVENTURE IN COMEDY 

!_________ 
---------------·-. ­
----~~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 13 

Mellow, not yellow 
Spence fights his way to ND, top 
heard often when talking to, or
By TERRY LYNCH went on to college, much less a about. Spence.
Sports Writer college like Notre Dame. Spence, "Marv works hard to do thingshowever, made it through. 
right." says secondary coachA mellow competitor. "My mother was a big innuence Terry Forbes. "He doesn't makeSomehow, there shouldn't be during high school." says the 5­big mistakes. The only mistakessuch a thing. but to deny that I I, 180-pound senior. "She sat you'll see him make are the ones
such a thing exists would elimi­on me and made sure I hit the that great athletes and great
nate the presence of Marv books. A lot of the guys at teams can take advantage of.
~=~: Spence from the secondary of Chester had the talent. but in­"He's an aggressive player that
the Irish football team. It would stead of studying they would likes contact. He can cover the
also deprive Notre Dame of one rather hang out in their groups.

·••• I 
wide-out welL which any corner­
of its biggest success stories. "I was different because I was back has to do well. He concen­
You see, it takes a lot of ex­mellow. I didn't let them get to 
traordinary circumstances to me. I just couldn't conform to trates as well as anybody back there."
make a competitor mellow, and the norms."
ill Fmturift9...... II 
Concentration on the football

Spence has been through a lot Surviving that type of environ­field for Spence is not so much
of them. Chester High School. ment not only takes some non­
a matter of pride than it is ofhis alma mater, is one of them. conformity, but a whole lot of
llJ! Homemade seups, New Yert Style <hill, homemade i\• survival. But then again, it's al­
Not very many of his classmates concentration. It's a word that isf breads, fresh salads, belgian waffles, buttermilk j~j: 
ways been that way off the field 
for him as well.
{ pancakes, gourmet Ice cream, fountain delicacies, Neu( 
"I like to rely on my quickness,f York cheesecake, gourmet burgers, and of course all ( but I've got to have a high level of concentration on each play,"
{ your fauorite deli meats and sandwiches. J 
says Spence. "One breakdown in the secondary means the offense scores on us. The linebackers
!\!\Join us for breakfast,lunch,lllld dimer... ioj 
can miss a tackle, but ifyou don't back them up, it's all over. 
~~·· 100 Center, Mishawaka Party Trays Availabl~~~ \ Mon-Fri 7-8 256-0710 ~~~~ / Saturday 8 -9:30 \ ) { Sunday 9 -5 } 
•1 New York Deli &Cafe' Dlooount Coupon..........J 
iii With this coupon, buy any salad plate and get a second :.·:):···:i.. ) plate for 1/2 price. Bring a friend! 
::::This coupon cunot be used with uy other promotional offer ud llll :::;only one coupon per table...than.t you :::: "The biggest thing for me is 
:-:· :·:· 
being able to maintain the con­centration. Everybody who came :]::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;!;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::iiii out for the team when I was a freshman had the ability to com­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, pete, it's just that the guys who stayed could maintain their con­centration on every play."
~ Cut -Rate -Liquors ~ As a 
senior, Spence is trying

~ ~ 
to pass on his aggressive style ~ ~ of play and mild-mannered demeanor on to younger
I Formerly Lock's Liquor World 
~ 
players. "I try to be a leader on the field by example," says Spence. "I go
~ 2128SouthBendAve.-277-3611 ~ 
~ ~ out and perform to the best of my ability, and hope from there 
~ Across from Yellow Submarine ~ that the rest will take care of it­
~ ~ self." 
~ ~ 
00 )?IS) So far, Marv Spence has doneIBud CWdke ~-just-fine_._____ ~ -~] ~At
~$ 7.69 a case THE.=:~:" ~ s ros 
00 ~ continuedfrom page 16 
, ,_ Darryl Strawberry was the only
~~~ $7.99 a case ~~~ 
Met to reach third. He singled ~ ~ with one out in the ninth for New ~ ~ York's final hit. He stole second ~ ~ and moved to third when Mookie 
0':::) ( • 
~ Wilson hit a hard groundball that
Old St I 
~ y e ~ Davis made a diving stop on and ~ ~ threw to Scott covering for the 
~ ~ out. Ray Knight struck out for the
$7 49 

~ e a case ~ last out giving Scott at least one ~/~ ~,/ strikeout in each inning. 0':::) )?IS) The Astros loaded the bases ~ ~ with one out after Davis' homer, 
~ ~ but Gooden wriggled out of fur-
Vodka 
~ ther trouble despite being wild 
)?IS) high with the fastball.~ ~ Kevin Bass doubled into the ~ ~ right-field corner, and Jose Cruz 
~ ~ "' • ~ nied out to shallow center field. ~ 30 p k $8 59 $4 1 0 ~Gooden then walked Alan Ashby
00 )?IS) on a 3-2 curveball. and Craig ~ e e 99 ~ Reynolds blooped a single into ~ ~ shallow right field, loading the ~ 00 bases. Gooden struck out Scott ~ ~ for the inning's second out. and 00 ~ Billy Hatcher grounded into a for­
~ 
Store Hours: ~ That ended the
ceout at third. ~ inning. one that could have been ~ 9am-10pm Mon-Thurs. more for
much lucrative the ~ Astros. 
~ 9am-11:OOpm Fri. & Sat. The wasted
z Astros three ~ baserunners again in the fourth, 
~ Prices effective Oct. 9 thru Oct. 11 ~ ~~~~~~~ !:;si~~ai~c~se ~ft~~~~ ~ Warm or Cold Beer Available "~sixth innings against Gooden. 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The Observer Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 14 
Sports Briefs 
A pep rally for Saturday's Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. -The Observer 
The SMC Volleyball team defeated St. Francis College of Fort Wayne, Ind., yesterday, 15-8, 14-16, I 1-15, 15-13, 15-2. The Observer 
The J''ID varsity lacrosse team will hold tryouts for anyone interested in playing varsity lacrosse Sunday at 10 a.m. on Cartier Field. For more information call head coach Rich O'Leary at 239-5 I08. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will hold an informal practice session today from 4-7 p.m. at the ACC courts. Players will have a chance to become acquainted and play some pickup games. Anyone interested is invited to attend. For more information call Bill Mapother at 283-3669. · The Observer 
Carolyn Grace, wife of Notre Dame soccer coach Dennis Grace, gave birth Tuesday evening to a healthy seven-pound baby boy. Both Christopher Michael and mother are doing fine. -The Observer 
Grace Hall took first place in the NVA cross-country run held over the past three Wednesdays. Grace captured wins on the first two Wednesdays to post a total score of 184. Howard Hall won yesterday's competition, while Jeff Miller of Alumni was the first individual to cross the line with a time of 13:28. -The Observer 
Two Hydroroblcs classes are being sponsored by NVA this semester. Monday and Wednesday evenings, participants meet at 6:45 for an hour of aerobics in the water. Tuesday and Thursday at 12: 15 p.m. there is a half-hour class. Call NVA at 239-6100 or stop by one of the classes for more details. -The Observer 


Irish 
continuedjrompage 16 
It's sort of like Rodney Danger­field, we don't get respect," said Lambert. "But the program is in it's infancy and the only way to get respect is to beat people." 
If the Irish continue their win­ning ways, especially on the road for the next two weeks, don't ex­pect Lambert and his players to open a Comedy Store in search of respect. They'll get that, and a possible post-season tourna­ment bid, from their play on the court. 
First, however, they must face the task at hand. The Irish will head south this weekend to face Louisville and Kentucky with hopes of keeping their winning streak rolling. 

1'..-c ---~..-....-..~.-...-.....-..~~~~,_.,,_.,._,...... 
_ 

IMIDWEST INSTITUTE OF NLP I 
1 Presents I 
1Applications of Neuro-Linguistic 
tpro~ramming -A 2 Day Seminar I 
I 
I N1.P is a group of tools and techniques that I teaches people how to be more effective when speaking or dealing with others and t I themselves. 1 
I October 23-24, 1986 Americana.Jnn. 
I 

I 9:30a.m. -5:00p.m. 213 West Washington I I South Bend. Indiana· t I 
IS125.00 MasterCard, VISA Call or write for complete II American Express details regarding this pre; 11 cards accepted. gram and other programs II and semmars. . . I 
I Midwest Institute of NLP I 
151J Miami Sr., Sourh Bend, IN 46613 I I <2t9> 232-9636 I 
i_.,_.,,_....._..._....,_..,_.,.._....,._..~~--~-.._...,_...._..,_.,,_.,,_.,,_.,_~~ 
~UNIOR PARENTs~ 
WEEKEND 
We need DORM REPS for JPW. This position will involve getting information to all juniors. 
ALSO, we'd like to have your suggestions for THEMES for the cocktail dance. 
AND,we'd like some suggestions for a BRUNCH SPEAKER. Who would you be interested in hearing? 
Shoot For The Stars! If you can help by being a dorm rep. or sending ideas please return this form to 
Student Activities Office
the 
3rd Floor LaFortune by Friday, October 10, 4:30pm 
I I
IName Phone----. 1Address-------------~ 1Interested in Dorm Rep Position?------tICocktail Dance Theme Ideas------""' 
IBrunch Speaker Suggestions______..,. 
t
I L----------------------------d 
I L_ 
THE KING SAYS, 
..,_Uke a lvHerlfy StlngUke a le• My Law Prices Sends 
the Competition 
up a Tree." 
REGULAR ONLY 
WARM ONLY 
LIMIT 3 CASES 


1e Sample Sale 
Limit 1 bQHie/custQmer at SQuth Bend Ave. StQre Only LemQn • Lager A premium Beer with Natural LemQn FlavQr 
200 N. MAIN-ELKHART 1910 LINCOLNWAY EAST-S. BEND UNIVERSITY CENTER-MISHAWAKA 254 DIXIEWAY NORTH-ROSELAND 295-6310 233-8430 277-7176 272-2522 
1621 SOUTH BEND AVE.-S. BEND BELLEVILLE SHOPPING CENTER-S. BEND 2915LINCOLNWAY EAST-MISHAWAKA 2934 E. MCKINLEY-S. BEND 233-4603 233-8936 255·1989 233-9466 

~~4tJil~~------------------------------------------------------T·h-ur.s.da•y•,•O•c•to•b•e•r•9•,•1•9•8•6•,•-•pa•g•e---15
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
QV!UlY, 7H£ INTI?€PIIl RcfOI? ­tl< 11N/l H15 11KMEl7115~1511/NT t.lt IN WI/IT f"OI? 711EIR ctJ/SNE ff(tY: 7H€ F118t.£fl 81/55£t.Of€, 
Beernuts 
SO IF '(OIJ C.IJT POU/IJDEll1 WHY ltRE YotJ STILL I>OJN(, (T? 
~\ 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Campus Ministry open forum, "Women's Hopes for the future of the Catholic church," A conversation with Bishop Joseph lmesch, Chairperson of the Bishop's Commit­tee on the Pastoral Response to Women, Stapleton Lounge 
3:30 · 5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, R:base 5000, I 08 Computing Center, limit 7; and, Introduction to SAS, Part 3, 23 Comput­ing Center. To register, call Betty at 239-5604. Free and open to the public 
4:00 
p.m.: Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Stochastic Models of Spur Kinetics," by Dr. NicholasJ.B. Green, N.D., Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory 

4:00 
p.m.: Lecture, "Careers in Sports Jour­nalism," by William Dwyre in the 2nd Annual Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 

4:00 
·5:00p.m.: Meeting in Press Conference Format, "Changing Business Environment Re· garding the Major TV Networks", open to all interested, 120 Hayes-Healy 


4:30 p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "Divi· sion Algebras and Fields of Invariants," by Professor David Saltman, University of Texas and MISRI, 2236 CCMB 6:30p.m.: Lecture, "Opportunities for Women in Public Relations," by Doloris Cogan, Cor­porate Director of Public Relations for Miles Laboratories, Inc., 304 Haggar College Center 
7:00 p.m.: Meeting for all Seniors going to Jamaica. Departure and rooming information to be given, Washington Hall 7:30p.m.: African Studies Lecture, "America's 
Mark Williams 
••• MAW AGAINST MAN! ••• /l850LUTELY VIDLENCE" ! f~/11ITIVE I.JICGEt>! /'t)IAITLE"S ~. 

tT'S-tT'5-IT~ •••• 
/ 

Responsibility in Southern Africa," by Mr. Prexy Nesbitt, Program to Combat Racism, World Council ofChurches, Geneva, and Coal· ition for Illinois Divestment from South Africa, Chicago, Illinois, CSC 
8:00 
p.m.: Philadelphia Club bus sign-ups, roundtrip cost is $80. Please bring fee with you, basement of Lafortune Student Center 

8:00 
· 10:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Public Lecture, "Reason or Force · Chile 1986," by Harry Barnes, U.S. Ambassador to Chile. Memorial Library Auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and Department of Communication Lecture, "Gender, Culture, and Theological Essence," by Bernadette Brooton Professor of New Testament, Harvard Divinity School. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.: SMC Faculty Voice Recital, Carol Belland, Church of Loretto 

8:00 
p.m.: SMC Counseling Career Develop­ment and South Bend Memorial Hospital lee· ture, "Socio-cultural Aspects of Eating Disor­ders," by David M. Garner, Ph. D., Director of Research, Dept. of Psychiatry, Toronto Gen· eral Hospital. Carroll Auditorium, free and open to the public 


I 0:00 · I I :00 p.m.: Talkshow, "Do Notre Dame freshmen and seniors think alike?," featured guests Shiela McDaniel, Milt Miyas­hiro, Kara Trowbridge, Brian McCarthy, host Lynne Strand, WVFI-AM 640, listeners may call in at 239-6400 
The Observer-

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
"And now that's the last of that." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Witty remark 5 Winner 
10 Distant 14 Destroy 15 Distinction 16 Lansbury role 17 Improve 19 Sacred image 20 Pro vote 21 Gets drowsy 22 Summary 24 Afr. fly 26 N. Oak. city 27 Myrna of 
old films 28 Crucial 31 A Red Rose 34 Silverheels 
role 35 Alliance acronym 36 Permission 
to a priest 38 Real ending 39 Name words 41 Speed letters 42 "L' --midi 
d'un Faun" 44 Words of 
understanding 45 55 mph? 47 Dance step 49 Pitchers 50 Unpretentious 53 Church 
district 55 List 56 Digit 58 Norwegian 
name 59 Temperate 62 Sheep shelter 63 Metallic disk 64 Tattered 65 Boat part 66 -Ste. Marie 67 Church section 
DOWN 1 Wharf 

7 Literary collections 8 Bon­(witticism) 9 Foretell 10 South-of-the­border buddies 11 Tongue-in­cheek 12 Biblical 
prophet 13 Let 18 "-the valley 
of..." 23 Skull part 25 Old Gr. city 26 Egyptian king 28 Napped 29 Bam adornment 30 Being: Lat 31 sassy 51 Bend 52 Fr. city 


2 Like some needs32 Montreal  Seine  53 Small cavity  
3 Plans  player  43 Maybe  54 Uly plant  
4 Vote seeker:  33 Middle-of­ 48 Pivot  55 Alphabet run  
abbr.  the-road  47 Cogent  57 Thrall of yore  
5 Particular  34 Whitewall  48 "­Bade"  60 Ovlne aound  
6 Multitude  and redial  50 Stopover  61 Qlve-try  

•··················································~• : SAB PRESENTS THE ENF0 Rc ER : 
t WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8 7 00 9 00 tt
• : ' : '11:00
t THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 t •+ EngfneeringAuditorium $1.00 •+ 

S~orts 
!­
f 
~.·. 


The Observet!Mike Moran Sophomore blocker Zanette with an easy win over Illinois Bennett (left) and the Notre State. Brian O'Gara has details Dame volleyball team upped of the match at right. their record to 13-4 Tuesday 
Women's tennis team overcomes Marquette 
usual procedure to play singles 

By SHEILA HOROX 
matches first, Marquette re­

Sports Writer quested and was granted per­mission to play doubles first in Prior to Tuesday's match with an attempt to speed up the over­Marquette, the Notre Dame wo­all play. men's tennis team was still Despite being down 2-1, there­looking for its first victory in dual fore, as the Irish began singles competition. action, Notre Dame head coach An 0-3 record. however, was Michele Gelfman still was not not enough to discourage the worried. Irish, who promptly went to Mil­"I wasn't concerned after the waukee and defeated the War­doubles because I knew we had riors, 6-3. a strong singles line up," The Irish took five of six Gelfman said. "We knew we had singles matches and one 
see GELFMAN, page 10

doubles match. While it is the 
Thursday, October 9 , 1986, -page 16 

Volleyball team makes it 7 in a row with quick victory over Dlinois St. 
By BRIAN O'GARA The task ahead is an imposing 15th point. This clinced the Sports Writer one. The Irish are now in the second game for Notre Dame, midst of eight consecutive and set it up to finish the eveningThe statistics are impressive. games on the road, five during with a 15-3 performance to once 
Seven consecutive victories, the week of October break. But 
again sweep its opponent three three consecutive matches with­this challenge got off to a great games to none. out losing a single game, and a start on Tuesday evening as the Lambert was happy with his 
13-4 record, the best start in Irish took another Illinois team team's performance. Notre Dame volleyball history. to school. After routing DePaul 'We passed very well and This is the stuff that breeds con­at home on Saturday, 15-2, 15-0, blocked off the left side ex­fidence, yet Irish head coach Art 15-4, the Irish traveled to Illinois tremely well," said Lambert. "But Lambert retains a strong sense State and once again came out our weakest point is transition. of cautious optimism. on top with a 15-4, 15-13, 15-3 We need to make the switch from 
"The program is improving victory. 
offense to defense and defense 

and there is no doubt that the The Irish, as was the case in to offense quickly. If we can do girls are improving," says Lam­recent games, jumped ahead at that. we'll be in good shape." bert. "I love their enthusiasm and the outset and took game one If you can't tell, Lambert is not 
their intensity in approaching with ease, 15-4. Another quick content with just beating Illinois practices and matches." start in game two followed as the State, the 7th-ranked team in the Yet in the same breath, Lam­Irish went up 14-6. A few lapses Midwest pre-season poll, and bert admits that there is still work in concentration and a seemingly winning seven straight matches. 
to be done if the Irish are to endless line of side-outs for the 
He has loftier goals in mind, in­succeed in the next stretch of the home team allowed Illinois State for
cluding greater recognition schedule. to get back into the game. Faced Notre Dame in the volleyball "We need to work on all with the possibility of losing their world. aspects of our game," he says. first game in three matches, "Nobody knows who we are. "We're not where we've got to be however, the Irish finally to do the things we need to do." managed to score that elusive 
see IRISH, page 14 


Houston takes the 'Shootout' win as great Scott out-powers Gooden 
Associated Press Game 2 of the best-of-seven with the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
series tonight will match Hous­Detroit's Joe Coleman in 1972 
HOUSTON Mike Scott ton right-hander Nolan Ryan, I 2-and Baltimore's Mike Boddicker prevailed in the heralded 8, baseball's all-time strikeout in 1983 also struck out 14. Shootout at the K corral with leader, against left-hander Bob Davis, who became only the Dwight Gooden, equaling a Ojeda, 18-5. second Astra to hit 30 or more playoff record with 14 strikeouts The shutout was the first in the homers in a season with 31 this and throwing a five-hitter as the NL playoffs since Rick Sutcliffe year, hit a 1-0 pitch from Gooden Houston Astros defeated the New and Warren Brusstar of Chicago to straightaway center field to Tork Mets 1-0 last night in the combined to beat San Diego 13-lead off the second. Center first game of the 1986 National 0 in Game I of the 1985 series. fielder Lenny Dykstra was at the League playoffs. The last individual shutout by an wall waiting, but there was no 
NL pitcher was Bob Forsch for chance. it was over the fence with 
Glenn Davis' home run leading St. Louis, 7-0 in Game I of the plenty to spare, and the Astros off the second inning was all 1982 playoffs against Atlanta. had the first league champion­Scott, who led the major leagues Danny Jackson of Kansas City ship playoff homer of their his­in strikeouts with 306, needed. pitched a 2-0 shutout in Game 5 tory. 
of last year's American League Jim Wynn twice topped the 30­
Gooden, the major-league playoffs against Toronto. homer mark for the Astros, who strikeout leader the past two Scott became only the third NL lost a five-game series to seasons, gave up seven hits and pitcher to strike out I 0 or more Philadelphia in 1980 in their only struck out five in seven innings in a playoff game, the most previous championbship playoff while working in and out of trou­recent being John Candelaria, appearance. ble as the Astros wasted who also struck out 14 against 
see ASTROS, page 13

numerous scoring chances. Cincinnati on Oct. 7, 1975 while 
Andrysiak runs his way into starting role 
Notre Dame quarterback Terry Andrysiak may have been running for his life last Saturday, but he seems to have run himself into a starting role in the process. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz gave a strong hint Tuesday that Andrysiak, the 6-L 181-pound junior back up to Irish regular Steve Beuerlein, would get the starting nod Saturday when 2-2-1 Pittsburgh comes to Notre Dame Stadium for a game with the 
1-3 Irish. 
While neither Beuerlein nor Andrysiak had a par­
ticularly good day on the stat sheet against Alabama 
Beuerlein was 5-of-16 passing, for 66 yards and one 
interception; Andrysiak was 8-of-18, 90 yards and an 
interception -both made several outstanding plays 
to avoid the ferocious Tide pass rush. 
Yet Beuerlein, who suffered a concussion in the 
first quarter on a sack by the Tide's Cornelius Ben­
nett, simply could not scramble out of the pocket 
enough to satisfy Holtz. Holtz, therefore, sent in the 
smaller, more light-footed Andrysiak and was 
pleased overall with his performance. 
The question, then, is whether or not this decision 
to start Andrysiak had more to do with Andrysiak's 
feet or Beuerlein's head. Beuerlein has not taken a 
snap in practice this week, presumably because his 
head still hurts, and even spent Saturday night in 
the hospital as is customary for a concussion suf­
ferer. He has been at practice all week, however, 
watching Andrysiak and reserve Steve Belles line up 
behind center. 
"Terry made an awful lot of fine, fine plays against 
Alabama," said Holtz. "He has tremendous 

Marty Burns 
Football Notebook 
maneuverability, and is a much better game player than he is a practice player. Eliminate his mistakes, and in that type of (pass rush), I think he gives us the best chance to win. 
"Beuerlein, on the other hand, suffered a concus­sion and cannot have contact. Andrysiak just does some things in football games that warrant him re­ceiving more playing time." 
For Andrysiak and Beuerlein, therefore, this Sat­urday's game may be one of immense Importance to their careers. Andrysiak started one game last year in similar circumstances, but was back at number­two a week later. Beuerlein, a starter since his fresh­man year, now appears to have a serious challenger for the first time In awhile. 
''I'm glad to have the opportunity to play," said Andrysiak. "We need to get something going and I just hope I'm the right person. The most important thing is to get the win." 
For Andrysiak, this is a chance at least to get off 
the rollercoaster ride he has been on for the past 
two seasons. Last year he played in nine games, 
leading his number-two unit to scoring drives in 
several. piloting the team to its consecutive drub­
bings of USC and Navy and even directing the team 
to its only scoring drive in the fiasco at Miami. Yet 
Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust always returned 
to the vastly-experienced Beuerlein as his starter. 
This season Andrysiak had appeared only briefly 
up until the Alabama game when Holtz freely shuffled 
the two in and out. While that situation no doubt 
frightened the two signal-callers as much as the Irish 
fans, this vote of confidence may be what Andrysiak 
most needs. 
"Last year, I think the coaches just felt I'd be more efficient off the bench or something," said Andrysiak. "This might be week-to-week, or depending on my performance it could be permanent. 
"It's very hard to get consistency, though, alter­nating in and out with another quarterback. But I'm always thankful for the opportunity to play. Coach Holtz has to know what's better for the team, and I just hope he stays with me a bit." 
It is likely that Andrysiak will get that chance this 
time, for Holtz still talks as though he is adverse to 
the idea of shuffling his quarterbacks on a regular 
basis. 

"In a football game, you would like to have one starting quarterback," said Holtz. "And then you want another who can play. I don't believe you want to jump up and down with your quarterbacks. Right now, Steve Beuerlein is our starting quarterback, no doubt. But Pitt puts tremendous pressure on the passer (the Panthers have registered 2 I sacks already) and Terry's pretty good when he's scram­bling." 







