---------~---~---­
Alcohol awareness -page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 51 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1986 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Prosecutors 
Corby's owners 
urge penalty 
of 30 years refused renewal for Hasenfus of liquor license 
Associated Press 
By MARILYN BENCHIK representing attorney for CTI 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -Assistant Saint Mary's Editor and Theta Enterprises, the for­Prosecutors asked on Wednes­mal, operating company day that the People's Tribunal Corby's Tavern will not re­owned by the Przybylinski 
deciding the case of American open its doors any tim~ soon, brothers, "CTI put itself in mercenary Eugene Hasenfus as the St. Joseph County Al­every position to sell the assets. give him the maximum 30 coholic Beverage Board voted The consistent intent was to sell 
years in prison for aiding Wednesday not to renew the liq­the property as a bar." Nicaraguan rebels. uor license of CTI Corporation, Gourley said CTI found the owners of the bar. buyers because that is what the 
Ivan Villavicencio, the assis­In a 3-1 vote, the ABB refused ABB advised the corporation to tant pros~cutor, made the re­to grant CTI the renewal be­do last February. quest in written final argu­cause of problems Corby's en­Several law-enforcement ments to the tribunal of a countered while it was open. authorities and neighborhood lawyer, truck driver and Such problems, cited by law­residents spoke against the laborer. He said the 45-year-old enforcement officers and renewal and transfer at the American's guilt was "plainly neighborhood residents at the meeting, citing the past history demonstrated" by his state­meeting, included underage of the once-popular student bar ments to the tribinal and gov­drinking and general deface­as reason for denying the liquor ernment officials. ment of the surrounding area. license. 
CTI needed the license John Clark, state _excise offi~ 
Defense attorney Enrique renewal in order to sell Corby's cer and member of the ABB, Sotelo Borgen said he also assets to the prospective said the state has made 116 would deliver a final statement buyers of the tavern, Thomas minor arrests at the tavern in to the court, which is expected and Robert Przybylinski. the past five years. to announce its verdict before Had CTI received the "This does not include the ar­the weekend. renewal of the license, the ABB rests the South Bend Police 
would have decided whether have made in that time," said 
An army patrol captured the license should be trans­Clark. Hasenfus, of Marinette, Wis., ferred from CTI to Theta En­Arthur Quigley, president of on Oct. 6, the day after the C-123 terprises, owned by the the North East Neighborhood aircraft on which he was cargo Przybylinski brothers. Association said his associa­handler was shot down over The brothers would then tion is "adamantly opposed to southern Nicaragua. It was have had to prove they could the transfer of the license." carrying supplies to U.S.­run the tavern in a responsible Steve Moriarity, a North
Let it snow 

backed rebels fighting the manner. They already had · East Neighborhood Associa­leftist Sandinista government. Sophomores Mike Donovan and Joe Maloney brave yesterday's received a variance to continue tion member also spoke He is charged with ter­snow and cold weather on their walk across the quad. With Tues­legal, non-conforming use of against the license renewal and 
rorism, conspiracy and other day's snowfall, winter came a bit early this year ... even for the property. crimes against the state. South Bend. According to John Gourley, see CORBY'S, page 5 


Morality in management urged by professor 
By JIM RILEY teach students to look inward to this question is "yes," but stages of thinking. The first for others as ends not means, 
Assistant News Editor and outward but only with an not a simple yes. stage simply treats people as a said Goodpaster. · 
economic point of view" in­"Conscience is made of means to an end; the second In six studies over eight 
"The field of management stead of considering society, stronger stuff than words," he considers moral thinking to be months conducted by 
must exercise moral judge­said Goodpaster speaking Wed­said, and some people question a system of constraints; and Goodpaster, "The aspiration 
ment concurrently with eco­nesday at the Center for Social whether conscience even has a the third, "type-3 thinking," al­was always type-3, but the 
nomic judgement," said Ken­Concerns. plaee in business. lows for independent motiva­reality was type-2," he said. 
neth Goodpaster, professor of Goodpaster, whose talk was Goodpaster compared the tion. "Corporations have a long way 
business at the Harvard Busi­entitled "Can a corporation thinking of corporations to the Type-3 thinking considers to go ... but managers want 
ness School. have a conscience (and should moral development of individ­respect as an independent 
"Too many business schools it have one) '?''lrsaid the answer uals. He said there are three value and considers concern see MORALS, page 5 

American bishops step back from confrontation 
Associated Press predecessors and all subject to has no authority to intervene" 
church discipline themselves, in the dispute between the 
WASHINGTON -America's did not add to the Vatican's Vatican and Hunthausen, he 
Roman Catholic bishops, after criticism of Seattle Archbishop said. 
daring to debate the Vatican's Raymond Hunthausen. But nei­Hunthausen was ordered by 
punishment of a fellow U.S. pr­ther did they defend him, as the yatican earlier this year to 
elate, stepped back from con­some of his supporters among give up much of his authority 
frontation with Rome on Wed­the group had hoped they to a Rome-appointed auxiliary 
nesday by declaring the might. bishop after Vatican officials 
Vatican's verdict "deserves "On this occasion the bishops judged him too liberal on such 
our respect and confidence." of the United States wish to af­matters as ministry to 
Their decision, after five firm unreservedly their loyalty homosexuals and divorced Cat­
hours of intense secret talks to and unity with the Holy Fa­holics and dispensation of gen­
over two days, said that while ther," Bishop James Malone, eral absolution for sin to large 
the bishops sympathize with president of the National Con­groups. 
the pain of an embattled col­ference of Catholic Bishops, He was allowed to make his 
league, the pope in Rome still said in a statement approved case to his fellow bishops at the 
must come first. by most of the group's nearly secret sessions, sessions like 
The bishops, all appointed by 300 bishops. 
Pope John Paul II or his "The conference of bishops see BISHOPS, page 5 


--------~-------~-----~------­
Of Interest 
"Democracy and Authority: Latin America in the 1940's" will be focused on in today's Brown Bag Seminar at noon in 131 Decio Hall. Speaking will be Ian Roxborough of the London School of Economics and Political Science. The lecture is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. -The Observer 
Expo Roma '86, which features a collection of student works from the Rome Studies Program last year, will be held today through Tuesday in the Architecture building gallery. A special reception will be held today from 4:30 to 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The Archbishop of Panama, Mark McGrath, C.S.C., D.D., will offer a mass of thanksgiving commemorating the 25th anniversary of his ordination as a bishop today at 5:15 in Sacred Heart Church. A 1945 Notre Dame alumnus, McGrath was on the Vatican II Council's Com­mission on Doctrine and press committee for Latin America. A principal figure in the conferences of Medellin and Puebla in South America, he has been a Notre Dame trustee since 1975. -The Observer 
Tickets to attend tonight's Dr. Jerry Falwell's lecture already have been distributed. Those wishing to attend but do not have tickets, may line up at Washington Hall starting at 5:30p.m. At 7, all of the hall's empty seats will be filled by those who waited outside. Late arrivals with ticket will not be permitted to enter. -The Observer 
"Grassroots Development in Guatemala" will be dis­cussed by Tom Lent, a doctoral candidate who lived eight years in Guatemala, at a meeting of the Overseas Devel­opment Network tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Con­cerns. -The Observer · 
Bosco Metamoros, a Nicaraguan Contra leader, will speak tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. His talk is sponsored by the International Students Or­ganization and College :Republicans. -The Observer 
Christian singer Ken Medema will present a free concert tonight at 7:30 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Complimentary passes, which are required for entry, are available at the Center for Social Concerns. The event is sponsored by the Social Concerns' Cultural Arts Series. 
-The Observer 

A fall choral concert, featuring the Saint Mary's Wo­men's Choir and the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame Collegiate Choir, will be held tonight at 8 in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at Sair~t Mary's. Both choirs are under the direc­tion of Nancy Menk, assistant professor of, music at the college. The free performance is open to the public. -The Observer 
"A Night at the Polls" is the theme of tonight's "On Broadway" show from 10 to 12 on WSND-FM 88.9. Lis­teners may call 239-7342 to vote for and request their fa­vorite musicals. Host Dianne McBrien will announce the results. -The Observer 
"A Night with a Democrat and a Republican" will be held on tonight's "Campus Perspectives" talkshow from 10 to 11 on WVFI-AM 640. Host Lynne Strand will interview Young Democrats President Bill Smith and College Republicans President John Hallisey on the recent elec~ tions' results and the parties' future prospects. Questions and comments may be called in from listeners at 239-6400. 
-The Observer 


·weather 
Prepare for a high around 20 by pulling out the plush P.arkas today ...might want to pull on the boots too...there is a chance of snow. Tonite expect a low be­tween 10-15. Enjoy friday's high of 35.. .it may not be that warm again for quite sometime. 


Design Editor ..... Rob "Lux" Luxem •. Viewpoint Layout ...... Alice Groner Design Assistant .......... Bob White Accent Copy Editor. Caroline Gillespie Typesetter . ....... Becky Gunderman Accent Layout . ..... Katy Kronenberg News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Typist ................ Colleen Foy Cooy Editor . ......... Rachel Jarosh ND Day Editor . ......... Bill Herzog Sports CO(JY Editor. . . . • . Pete Gegen SMC Day EditorTheresa Harrington Viewpoin(. Copy Alison Pivonka Ad Design . ...... Catherine Ramsden 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Could one of these men be the next ND president? 
Today, the Board of Trustees 10-member nominating committee meets in the Center for Continuing Education to vote on who it will pro­pose to the board to succeed retiring University President Father Thoedore Hesburgh. 
Tomorrow, the full 49-member board will choose, in all likelihood, the nominating com­mittee's choice. 
While most observers have centered their at­tention on Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, Fa­ther William Beauchamp, Father Ernest Bar­tell, Father Michael McCafferty, and Father David Tyson as likely candidates to succeed Hesburgh, I hope there remains the possibility for a "dark-horse" candidate to emerge. 
Maybe, just maybe, the Board will consider some possible successors who are qualified to serve the University in their own, unique way. 
Here are some alternatives; Board of Trus­tees, please take note. 
l.Billy Martin -The former manager has proven himself a winner wherever he has been made the head man. Martin's managing stints in New York, Texas, Minnesota, Detroit, and Oakland have made him popular all across the country, making him perfect for Notre Dame's national student body and alumni. Get Martin away from the pressures of George Stienbren­ner and New York, and I think he'll stop getting into barroom brawls that could embarrass the University. . 
Although by University rule, the next presi­dent must be a C.S.C. priest, I think if a few extra dollars and a lifetime supply of Captain Black chewing tobacco are put into the con­tract, Martin will take up the vows. Besides, just think of the publicity when the University president races down from the press box of Notre Dame Stadium to kick dirt on a football referee. 
2.Gerry Faust -We all know how much the man loves Notre Dame. Although his first go round as a man at the top at ND was not all that successful, what better place than Akron to regain one's composure and build leadership skills. His optimism and incredible enthusiasm would make him great for those fundraising cocktail parties. 
From Faust's well-documented trips to the Grotto, we know he's Catholic enough to join the ranks of Holy Cross, and he always said he would do anything for Notre Dame. Most im­portantly, he's got an escape clause in his con­tract at Akron, so you know he's ready and willing to come back. 
Chris Bednarski 
Assistant News Editor 

3.Pope John Paul II -He's a priest, so he's cleared hurdle number one. Add in the fact that in the last few years he has gained invaluable experience in the Vatican, and I would say he's just about ready for the job. The Pope loves to travel, so he would fill Hesburgh's shoes per­fectly, and his recent decision to fire Father Curran for liberal teaching at American Uni­versity make him perfect for Notre Dame's predominately conservative administration. The Pope's only drawback would be the long­term contract he's tied into with the Vatican. It's doubtful he has an escape clause for Notre Dame a•la Gerry Faust and Lou Holtz. 
4.Clint Eastwood --If the trustees are looking for toughness in the new president, then Clint's their man. Who better to enforce the rules of duLac. "So the students want to extend parie­tals; Go ahead, make my day." He's been gaining valuable administrative experience at his post as mayor of Carmel, California and may be ready for the position on the third floor of the Administration Building. 
His largest drawback is his past experience as an actor. We know the perils of what can happen when a former actor becomes presi­dent. 
What are the chances the Board would actu­ally choose one of these candidates? Well, what were the chances that Mike Switek and Don Montanaro would be elected? 
SObering Advice:: can save a1~;-,:cr 1 
Think BefOre You Drink ~~ BefOre You Drive "' · 
~« (j0e:, ~ , , 
\ 0 ~ ~~· ,
,~~~0~t>0 / Now, you can ~o~ ~e:, , ' look.at feel 
'~,



~,, great all year! 
,
,

, 
Cell us at 272-7653 
QU
te.> INS fUJj TAN. INC 
University Commons St. Rd. 23 Sanitized tanning booths and beds Expiration d.ate: Nov. 20,1986 
The Observer  Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 2  

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 3 



Phone book distribution soon 
By JOE MARKEY 
Staff Reporter 
A computer program mal­function is responsible for the two-week delay in the distribu­tion of this year's University directory, according to Assis­tant Registrar David Kil. 
"Any changes put into the system after the middle of Au­gust were not picked up be­cause of a program problem," he said. 
As a result, the addresses of those undergraduate students who made dorm changes were not updated from last year, ac­cording to Kil. Also,"the campus addresses of graduate 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
What is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
students from St. Joseph's, Brownson, and O'Hare-Grace Residence Halls did not appear in the directory," he said. 
Kil recalled all the books before they were able to be dis­tributed for circulation at the last HPC meeting. A corrected version of the book was imme­diately sent to the printer, Uni­versity Directories, for reprint­ing. 
Kil emphasized that it is not possible to put the blame on 
anyone. "We have used the same program for a number of years and never had any prob­lem," he said, calling the mal­function "a quirk in the sys­tem." 
According to Kil, the reason for malfunction of the program has been discovered and "we know what to do in the future. It won't happen again." 
Kil, who said the books should be out by the end of this week or the beginning of next week, commented, "two weeks is an excellent response from the company," referring to the amount of time it took for the reprinting. 
"In the future we're trying to get the books out earlier than the traditional mid-October date," Kil said. 



Holy Cross Fathers 
For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Danae, IN 
46556 

For appo!ntmrnt, can bet..,een 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-23~·6385 




-............ ' ... 4 .. 

Study by osmosis 
Junior John Walters seems absorbed by his classwork as he studies yesterday in the Memorial Library. Sights like this will become more and more familiar as the semester continues and final exams near. 

Northern Trust Bank of Chicago 
will be on campus 
TONIGHT 
at the University Club from 7to 9 p.m. to discuss careers in commercial banking and trust. 
All Business and ALPA majors encouraged to attend. Pizza and soft drinks will be served. 
Arts and Letters Business Society presents 


DEAN WADDICK 

on 
MBA School Admissions and Management Training Schools 
TONIGHT 7 p.m. Room 124 Hayes Healy Open to sophomores, juniors and seniors 

~------­
The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 4 

ND senior, alumna discuss alcohol awareness in talk
Former prof dies Special to the Observer Mter his return to the Uni­Bernard Waldman, versity, Waldman directed longtime Notre Dame scien­the nuclear physics labora­tist and administrator who tory, home of a 3 million-volt watched from a military accelerator that in 1949 was plane as the atomic bomb the world's second most was dropped on Hiroshima, powerful producer of X­died Wednesday in Sanford, rays. Postwar research un­N.C., after a long illness. He der Waldman's direction was 73. concentrated upon the inter­Born Oct. 12, 1913, in New action of elctrons and X-rays York, he received a bac­with matter. helor's degree in 1934 and his In 1967 he was appointd Ph.D in 1939, both from New dean of the College of Sci­York University. He joined ence, a post which he held the Notre Dame faculty in until 1979. During his tenure 1938 as a physics research as dean, Waldman imple­associate, was promoted to mented plans for developing physics instructor in 1940 the College of Science, an ef­and to associate professor of fort supported by a $5.6 mil­physics in 1941. Beginning in lion grant from the National March 1943, he took a leave Science Foundation. of absence to join a team of Following his retirement scientists working to from Notre Dame in 1979, develop the atomic bomb at Waldman served as associ­the Los Alamos, N.M., labo­ate director of the National ratory. Superconducting Cyclotron Waldman's part in the Laboratory at Michigan Manhatten Project included State University until 1983. work on instrumentation Memorial services will be used to measure the force of at 10 a.m., Tuesday, Nov. 18, the explosion. Mter witness­in Sacred Heart Church. ing the first atomic test on Burial will follow in Cedar July 16, 1945, at Alamogordo, Grove Cemetary. N.M., he was one of four The family has requested civilians who watched the that in lieu of flowers contri­Hiroshima bombing from a butions be made to Notre military observation plane. Dame's Memorial Library.  
Show ND or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 '(219) 277·2870  

By KATIE SULLIVAN 
News Staff 

"I didn't even realize there was something wrong in my life. It sounds so weird, but al­cohol was just a part of our lives," said Connie, daughter of an alcoholic, at Saint Mary's alcohol awareness lecture Tuesday night. 
The lecture, entitled "Someone I Know Drinks Too Much," was the second in a se­ries sponsered by the Saint Mary's Alcohol Education Council. 
Representative of the benefits of alcohol therapy groups, Connie, a Notre Dame graduate, and Kristin, a Notre Dame senior who battled alco­hol and drug abuse, spoke of their experiences with al­coholism and discussed how they learned to deal with the disease. 
Connie spoke about her expe­rience with an alchoholic fa­ther and discussed how Al­anon, an alcohol support group counseling relatives of al-Like Connie, Kristen said she 
had led an unhappy life before 
becoming involved with an al­
cohol support group. 
Kristen said she began drink­ing and experimenting with drugs when she was 11 years old. Describing her life as one of living on excuses, Kristen said she never accomplished a thing. 
"I was an erratic person. I was always looking for fun, ex­citement, parties and freedom. It was as if I was afraid of something," she said. 
Kristen said she finally sought help for her problem after Christmas of her sopho­more year at Saint Mary's. 
"I just hit bottom and couldn't take being unhappy anymore," she said. It was then that she went to Alcoholics Anonymous for help, she added. 
AA helped her be honest with herself, Kristen said. Like Connie, she noted that alcohol hindered her from developing relationships. "I had no friends but a million aquaintances." 


Jrofll the~ 
~e~ '~~h

Hi! 'Is 
I'm Mary Beth. 
I have joined the styling team at The Knights 

men's haircutting 
~ and hair care. Come help me make my career a succes 
272-03121 272-8471 54533 Terrace Lane 
(across &omMartin"s) 
Bosco Matamoros The Washington Representative 
coholics, changed her life. 
In her battle with an alcohlic parent, Connie said she be­carne an empty and unhappy person. "If I didn't have a brain then there would have really been no reason to go on," she said. 
Connie said she realized she could be an "Okay" person by getting involved in Al-anon aftr she saw how the support group had helped her mother. 
"Al-anon taught me to believe living was for continual growth," said Connie, "I had to detach myself from my fa­ther's problem and get on with living." 
Connie said that having anal­coholic parent was was very destructive for her when she tried to establish male and female relationships. With the help of Al-anon, she said, she learned to explore her spirituality and form good, meaningful relationships. 
Because of Al-anon, Connie said she feels she is gradually becoming the person she wants to be. 

~----------~~-----------~ 
of the Nicaraguan Contras I Regular Roast I J Regular Roast I I Beef 99¢ (limit 4) !I Beef 99¢ (limit 4) I 
I ;I I 
Please presenl coupon belore ordenng. One coupon per person, per Vl~l No1val1d 1n l I Please presenl coupon belore ordering. One coupon per person pervr~l Nolvalid 10 I
Speaks about: 
combrnallon w1lh any olfler Rax oHer OHer good al par11c-~ comb1nal10n Wllh any Olher Rax oHer. OHer good al parlrc-
I 

1pallng Rax Reslauranls only No pholocop1es allowed • 1pal1ng Rax Restauranls only No phOiocoptes allowed ~ Void where prohlblled Cash redemphon value m I I Void where prolllblled Cash redemptiOn value 11201 I
American Involvement in Nicaragua 
I Ollerexplres 11130/86 "' I OlllriiJIIres 11130/86 ~ 
----------------------~~---· 
~-----------·----------~
I 75¢ off Salad plus 
I 
I

60toffany
1 Mexican Bar and 
I 
I

ThuBday November13,1986 
I medium drink or 
baked potato 
I

at 7:30pm the Library Auditorium 
iced tea 

Plea,. presenlcoupon belore ordering. One coupon per persoo, per visit NOI val•·' · 
Please Jllesenl coupon before ordering. One coupon per person, per visit Not Valid in combinalion wilh any olher Rax oHer Otler good al parlic-~ 
combinlliorl willl any oll1er Rax olfel. OHel good at partie-Ipaling Rax Reslauranls only. No pholocopies allowed. 
I ~
Ipaling Rax Restaurants only. No pflolocopies allowed. 
Void where prollibiled. Cash redempllon value 11201. 
Void where proflibned. Cash redernptiorl value 1120e.
I I , ___________..I I ___________ I 
ll llllere~Jires 11130/86 ~ JII lllleru,lm 111301861 e ')
Sponsored by: College Republicans 
& International Students Organization 
1986 RAX Restaur-Inc. 

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 5 




Morals 
continued from page 1 
to go there." 
Rather than allowing moral decision-making to be taken care of by the invisible hand of Adam Smith or the "visible hand" of government, Goodpaster said he wants to defend a third way, the "Hand of Management." 
Goodpaster said the whole 

conception of management 
must change. "The corporation is a citizen of society," he said. It must look both inward and outward from both the eco­nomic and moral point of view, he said. 
The role of conscience must be institutionalized both inside the corporation as well as out­side, said Goodpaster. The company has to have respect for the employees as well as respect for the consumers and the general public, he said. 
"We have to go deeper than the rhetoric," he said. A corpo­ration's conscience is more than just a statement of values 
E.F. HUTTON &COMPANY INC. 
invites Notre Dame students to a presentation on the Corporate Finance Analyst Program 
Thursday, Nov.13, 1986at 
The Morris Inn ·Notre Dame Room 
8:00p.m. 
We will be Recruiting in campus on Tuesday, Feb. 3, 1987. 


$8.59 
Store Hours: 9am-10pm Mon-Thars. 9aaa-1.1:00pm Fri. & Sat. 
that somebody pulls out of a drawer, he said. "We have to look deeper than that." 
Goodpaster also discussed the "Frankenstein problem," namely the question of whether this move toward type-3 think­ing and a corporate conscience will be a good thing or if society will be creating a monster. "The moment you move in the direction of corporate con­science as an agenda . . . " you face these three paradoxes, said Goodpaster. 
"The idea of corporations working under the same moral standards as we do has intui­tive appeal," he said. But the leadership of this organization is not elected or appointed to do this kind of managing, said Goodpaster, calling this the paradox of legitimacy. 
Managers usually motivate by appealing to self-interest, said Goodpaster. Thus, he said they face another paradox as they ask, "How do I motivate people to behave not just be­cause it's in their own interest but because it's the right thing to do." 
The third paradox 
::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::d::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::: 
!!!!+4.).. ~~~ lronwoo ~ !!!! 
;:;: ~~~T~ .:;: 
:!:l ,~ welcomes [!ll 
:::: "~ ::::
. 
:::: " the Ntttany:J ~ Lionsandl jjji The beer jjjj llll from Lion llll i! Country. I
i Rolling Rock Beer 
!Ill 

$7.99 a case 
~~w~~~~~~w~ 
I Formerly Lock's Liquor World ~ I 2128SouthBendAve.-277-3611 ~ Across from Yellow Submarine 
WE a case HAVE KEGS $7.99acase Lite


Milwaukee's Best 
$7.99
~$5.29 a case Busch $7.99 


Stroh's 30 Pk. 
Cold Beer HVBU4aDJte 
• 
li 
-!Ill 




Our motto is to wheel and deal. Come and talk to us about parties, SYR's, etc. Also check our keg 
Goodpaster mentioned was the paradox of authority. There seems to be something coer­cive about dictating values to employees, he said. 



Corby's 
continued from page 1 
transfer. "According to (Tuesday's) Observer, John Gourley was quoted as saying, 1 'We can't remember when 1 (Corby's) wasn't a tavern.' 
.,I 
Well, for over the past year, 
,
Corby's hasn't been a bar, and 
.,
we've enjoyed it. ,
"My main objection is al­...., coholic beverages being sold ~ from that particular prop­, erty," he said. 
Said Renelada Robinson, center director for the associ­ation, "The main issue is that the tavern is not needed. We have enough taverns in tbe neighborhood. 
"We need to get on with the business of improving our neighborhoods. Let them sell Corby's and get a business the neighborhood wants," she said. 
Gourley added, "The present 
owners have no affiliation (to 
these past problems) in the 
transfer of the license." 
James Broad, owner of CTI, 
said CTI was only trying to con­
form to the ABB's proposal of 
divesting the assets. 
"CTI voluntarily gave it (the 
property, assets and license) 
up. We wanted to follow the 
ABB guidelines to the letter. 
We would like to sell the per­
mit," said Broad. 
"If the renewal is denied, 
then the asset has no value. 
Most of these funds will go to 
creditors," he said. 
Board member Harold Zyski 
offered the only vote in favor 
of renewal. 
"I'll vote for renewal so the 
man (James Broad, present 
owner of CTI) can sell the 
license," said Zyski. 
The proposed renewal was 
voted down by Joseph Szekendi, 
board secretary; Joseph 
Derda, board president; and ,
,
Clar}t. 
1

Blshops l, 
, 
continued from page 1 1 
none other in recent years, and 1 
he used the opportunity to com­
plain that "a shroud of 
secrecy" around the Vatican's 
investigative process had kept 
him from even seeing the for­
mal charges against him. 
Malone, however, said, "I 
believe it is clear that the 
process employed by the Holy 
See was in accord with general 
principles of church law and 
procedures. The decision 
reached at the end of the 
process was made by the 
proper church authorities. As 
such, it deserves our respect 
and confidence." 
Sources familiar with the debate said that the verdict was softened a bit from an ear­lier version that would have declared the Vatican decision "just and reasonable." 
The final statement, said Cardinal John O'Connor of New York, indicated the bishops do not feel "the sky is falling in ... the church is about to explode, there is imminent rebellion on the part of the bishops toward the Holy See.'' 
Another conservative car­dinal, Bernard Law of Boston, said the statement indicated strong papal support by the bis­hops, and "at this moment, more than anything else, that has to be seen." 







"ie~~_O_i_n__t _____________Thur~sday~,Nov~embe~r13,~1986~-pag~e6 

Small vote 
In response to Joe Merchant's View­point article of November 11 entitled, "Student Senate Must Push for Divest­ment," allow me to clarify a few facts and set the record straight. The Student Senate decided on November 3 to table the motion on recommending to the Board of Trustees that Notre Dame 


Steve Viz 
guest column 

should divest from South Africa be­cause, at the time, many of the Senate members did not feel adequately prepared or informed on both sides of r' the issue to vote intelligently. It was r' not simply a matter of not having a r r mandate from the students, but more a reluctance to vote hastily without seriously considering the implications
~ 
r of divesting and not divesting and with-
r 
out being reasonably ·sure of why we would vote a certain way. We didn't want to be swayed by emotional claims that divestment is the only moral al­ternative without really understanding the other side of this complex issue. 
ln light of this, during the subsequent week those of us, myself included, who didn't feel comfortable with their knowledge of the subject, researched the issue and tried to formulate an in­formed, intelligent position. This was capped off by presentations from legitimate representatives of both sides of the issue at the Nov. 10 meeting. Then, and only then, did we take a vote. I hope you would agree that the mem­bers of the Senate should not vote on any issues, especially isues of this mag­nitude, on a whim without intelligently formulating an opinion. 
As reported in the same issue of The Observer (Nov. 11), the Student Senate 


murgins do not indicate mandate 
Student mandate calls for board to divest now 
This past Monday, the Student Senate voted on a resolution which I proposed concerning the University's investment policy toward companies engaged in business activities in South Africa. It is resolved that " ... the University should set a specific deadline for cor­
. porations engaged in business activi­ties in South Africa to disinvest unless the Government of South Africa makes significant progress toward disman­tling its system of apartheid and takes genuine measures towards negotiating with black leaders. If neither the cor­porations disinvest nor the Government makes significant progress toward dis­mantling apartheid by the established deadline, the University ought to com­pletely divest from these corpora­tions." The measure was passed by a slim majority, 8 to 7. 
John Gardiner 
guest-column · 

I worked overtime to present my col­leagues in the Senate with substantial material from both sides to make a decision, and felt betrayed by the final vote. Upon reflection though, the result has proven to be very revealing. Both sides present valid arguments. However, although each side would like to think that their argument is correct (as I did in proposing the resolution), 

Doonesbury 
neither can be absolutely certain that they are correct. Do corporations really aid in the dismantling of apartheid or are they lending economic support to the policy? Would the government of South Africa concede under economic sanctions? These are questions which cannot truly be answered. 
What one can be certain of is the cur­rent University policy which was estab­lished by the Board of Trustees last May. It basically states that the Uni­versity would divest if it became ap­parent that the corporations were not influencing the dismantling of apar­theid and if the situation deteriorated further. Has the established criteria been met? 
Since the last board meeting there have been numerous developments. In June, the South African government declared a state of emergency, vir­tually taking away any of the rights the blacks may have had. As a response, the United States government, through Congressional impetus, has imposed sanctions on South Africa. In addition, within the past month, numerous cor­porations have announced that they're divesting. Moreover, the Administra­tive Board of the United States Catholic Conference voted 47-0, on Sept. 10, 1986, urging the "consideration" of divest­ment to all Catholic institutions. The bishops claimed that their "religious and moral teaching is daily con­tradicted by apartheid." Is Notre Dame 
WHY? WHYNOTBENlJIRt'S VINTAGe CUll.! IF IT's 
THRASHER OR 7Ht BRJSTL£­NOTONe THING IAifTH HIM, 
THIGHEP QJ!?Lti!J? GOO/J OIANCES ARC VeRY GCXJ{) 
QfJ5T/ON. I /?AN6 fJPPICK'$ INIJf3&[) IT'S ANfJTHCR. 7Hc 
50100/..MAT& CE(JL TO SEE 5TORIBS I CO/JL/J 7El/.. Y{J() 
IFHE KNEPI, BUT11&tuA~ A£JO/JT THAT CHAI?Ac:TER! / ()(fTM£1)1NG. 
/ 

did indeed pass a resolution on Nov. 10 recommending to the Board of Trustees that Notre Dame divest from compan­ies d~ing business in South Africa un­less by a specific date, which would be determined by the board, the govern­ment of South Africa "has made signif­icant progress toward dismantling its system of apartheid and has taken genuine measures toward negotiating with black leaders." The vote, however, was split down the middle with seven votes for and seven votes against the proposal before Student Body President Mike Switek cast the tie-breaking vote in favor of the pro­posal. This clearly is not a mandate to the Board of Trustees to change their policy on divestment. 
I also do not believe that the student body has mandated divestment either. We cannot take the vote from last year's referendum on divestment as a call by the student body to divest. Based strictly on that vote, we find that the students are split on the issue. On the divestment referenum, only 2,082 stu­dents out of an undergraduate popula­tion well in excess of 7,000 voted that Notre Dame should divest. Only 58 per­cent of the undergraduates voted on the issue at all and, of those who did vote, not even half voted for divestment, while a third voted for not divesting and almost a fifth had no opinion on the issue. How can these underwhelming results be taken as a clear mandate by the students to divest? Until proven otherwise, I do not believe such a man­date exits or ever has existed. I just don't see the wholehearted, collective support by the student body as a unified call for divestment, as Merchant ap­parently does. 
Steve Viz is a sophomore pre-med major and a student senator. 
immune from such teaching? 
Again I ask, has the criteria of the present policy been met? This question will underlie the board's policy discus­sion. From all appearances, the answer is an unequivocal yes. Words mean nothing unless acted upon; therefore, the board must act. The resolution passed by the Student Senate and a similar proposal passed by the Faculty 

Garry Trudeau 
8UT I 
lJI6R£9S... 
/ 

Senate are viable alternatives. In set­ting a specific deadline one leaves hope that the situation will improve, while putting substance into the policy by genuinely threatening divestment, even if the process of divesting occurs many months later . 
John Gardiner is a senior government major and a student senator. 


Quote of the day 

"When you have nothing to say, say nothing." 
Charles Caleb Colton 
( 1780-1832) 
General Board 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corngan Advertismg Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the 
Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt 
OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ........... : . ... Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space Is availabld to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1966 
• 



----------------------------------------~~----------~----------------------------------------------



ACcent 
Thursday, November 13, 1986 -page 7 

c enna-
Cubs, Bears and ND? 
ERIC M. BERGAMO features copy editor 
For Andrew McKenna, interest in baseball bega11 very early in life. 
"In my youth, baseball was truly the national pastime, the sport that everyone had -the greatest Interest in. Professional football had not reached those peaks at that time," McKenna said. 
"I grew up in a major league city, a two-team city, in Chicago. So it was a matter of interest for everybody." 
That interest would become even greater later in life for McKenna, vice chairman of the Board of Trustees of Notre Dame and a member of the Class of 
1951. He helped save the Chicago White Sox from a possi­ble move to Seattle in 1975 and became director of the Chicago Cubs in 1981. More recently, as director of the Chicago Bears, McKenna's involvement in sports has expanded into the world of professional football. 
McKenna is also president and chief executive officer of the Schwarz Paper Company and serves on the board of directors of I I corporations and chairites. 
McKenna came to Notre Dame as a student in 194 7 during the post-war era. World War II had a profound effect upon the student population at that time, McKenna recalled. 
"College life at the time was a mix because there were many older students on campus who were veterans who had come out of the service from World War II and of course there were younger ones like myself," McKenna said. 
Notre Dame, at the time McKenna was a student. had not yet reached the level of success experienced today. 
"There was a cohesiveness of 
the school. The school was in 
many respects still in its early 
daysand was marchingaiong the 
road to the days ofthe leadership 
of Father Hesburgh. It was a 
school that had not yet quite 
achieved some of the greatness 
that Father Hesburgh has 
brought to it today." 
McKenna's first experience with baseball came at a critical moment. Chicago was in danger of losing the White Sox in a move to Seattle. 
In 1969, there had been a 
major league team in Seattle 
called the Pilots. The Pilots 
moved to Milwaukee to become 
the Brewers. 
After losing the franchise, the city of Seattle brought a lawsuit against the American Leauge. The lawsuit called for payment of damages incurred by the move or having the League give Seattle another team. 
When it was apparent that Seattle had a good case, the American League had to respond by either giving them a team at the end of 1975 or start paying damages. The American League decided to give Seattle a team. At that same time, the White Sox were owned by a man named John Allyn and were in very dif­ficult financial condition. The American League decided that the White Sox would be the team to move to Seattle. 
McKenna said he realized that Chicago was in danger of losing one of its institutions. 
"It occured to me, as well as other Chicagoans, that it would be wrong for a major city like Chicago to lose one of its long time franchises." McKenna recalled the moves of the Brook­lyn Dodgers and the New York Giants to Los Angeles and San Francisco respectively and how those moves broke the hearts of their fans. To prevent that from happening to Chicago, McKenna contacted an old friend who had been deeply involved in baseball in the past: Bill Veeck. 
"He had run several major league franchises and owned the White Sox at one time. He came back and put together a group of businessmen and purchased the White Sox from Allyn and saved the White Sox from moving_ to Seattle." 
McKenna remembers Veeck. who died in 1985, as having a profound effect on him and anyone who got to know him well. 
"He was an absolute rugged individualist and referred to him­self as a survivor. But he was loaded with common sense and had a great spirit. He had an in­tellect that he expected some challenges." 
''He had a perception of things that you just couldn't imagine. He had a sense about them and anticipated them. He's one of those kinds that doesn't come around very often." 
McKenna was chairman of the White Sox when they were sold in 1981 and "having been bitten by the bug," heard that Chicago's other team, the Cubs, were likely to be for sale. 
"Mr. Wrigley, who had been the owner, had died and his wife had died and his son was in an estate problem. I approached the Cubs and it was true that they could be purchased." 
"But it was also true that they weren't going to wait for some­one like me to syndicate a group to buy them," McKenna ex­plained. "They wanted a buyer who was going to put down one check quietly." 
Fortunately, it was the Tribune Company, of which McKenna is a member of its board of direc­tors, who put down that check. 
"It occured to me that they (the Tribune Company) would be a very logical buyer because WGN television telecasts their games and WGN radio broadcasts their games." 
"And right across the street from the Wrigley Building is Tribune Tower. I just knew that there would be a certain romance to a transaction of that sort," McKenna said. 
McKenna was named director 
of the Cubs after the Tribune 
Company purchased the Cubs in "Mike's done a terrificjob. He has a terrific way of handling ail con­stituencies: the players; the op­posing teams; the media. I think he's outstanding." 

Running back Walter Payton: "He looks as good to me today as he did ten years ago. When we need important yardage, Payton gets It for us." 
Quarterback Jim McMahon: "He's a very talented young man. His personal style may be differ­ent. but he's a winner. You can't be successful in football unless you have a good quarterbackand what makes one quarterback better than the other is the con: fidence he instills in his team­mates." 
Defensive tackle William "The Refrigerator" Perry: "A very, very nice man with a large family in South carolina. Who could im­agine a year ago that Perry would be a national hero." 
Football has become very popular in England the past few years and the Bears travelled to England over the summer to play an exhibition game against the Dallas Cowboys. 
"The sportsfans in London are very good. When we played there, ail the attention was on the Bears," McKenna explained. 
As vice chairman of the Board of Trustees, McKenna will be in­volved in two important issues facing Notre Dame: divestment and the election of Father Hes­burgh's successor. 
McKenna said that he does not 
believe that Coca-Cola's selling 
of their holdings in South Africa 
will have much influence on the 
board's decision. 
"Coca-Cola did what was ap­propriate for that company and I respect them for that and I think that Notre Dame will have to study its own circumstances." 
The search for Hesburgh's suc­cessor has been "a very healthy and lengthy process and very thorough," McKenna said. The final decision will be made when the board meets this Friday. 
McKenna had the highest praise for Hesburgh and his .35­year term as president of Notre Dame. 
"You could write a book. He took a school that had not achieved any greatness, but was a good school and on the way up. Just look at the record. He took the endowment from a single digit to $400 million. There are 9.3 endowed professor­ships on this campus. There has been the expansion of a number of buildings. The number of Notre Dame graduates who are leading major companies." 
"Hesburgh's role in the church, 
his role in the country and his 
role In the world has focused 
great attention on Notre Dame," 
McKenna noted. 
McKenna said he believes that 
the future for Notre Dame looks 
very good. 
"I think that Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce and Tim O'Meara, our provost, have placed Notre Dame In very solid condition. There is a great foundation for fultlllment of goats:' 1982. Two years later the Cubs, the most lovable losers in baseball, would be challenging for the National League Champi­onship. 
"That was a very rewarding thing," recalled McKenna. "The Cubs had been a doormat for years as lovable as they were. In a very short time period, we had set a timetable for turning things around and in 1984 we had a very successful year." 
"The only dissappointlng thing was when we went to San Diego after we won the first two games of the playoffs in Chicago and didn't win a game out there." 
Because of their immense ap-Super Bowl. McKenna said that he wasn't worried that the bad luck that struck the Cubs would also hit the Bears. 

The night before the game McKenna had dinner with Mi­chael Mccaskey, president and chief executive officer of the Bears, and were kidding about a possible Patriots upset. 
Among the guests that night was Dallas Green, general manager of the Cubs. Green and Mccaskey, McKenna said, were 
both professional enough not to be superstitious and yet also aware that sports are full, of little nuances of that sort. 

Andrew McKenna is vice chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, director of the Chicago Cubs and Bears. 
peal the Cubs are a national in-The beginning of the game, 
stitution, McKenna said. however, provided a few anxious 
"Cubs fans are not only moments. 
throughout tpe country but "The Bears fumbled immedi­
throughout the world. The Cubs ately and New England scored. I 
have great appeal to all parts of thought the Bears could only 
America and Its certainly en-lose by making mistakes and 
hanced by the fact that their right away they made a mistake. 
games are telecast throughout But from that point on it was ail 
the country." Bears." 

"This year the team has not McKenna said that he believes 
had a good year artistically, but the Bears can make the trip to 
attendance has been terrific and the Super Bowl again. But the 
the interest is stili there," second time around is going to 
McKenna said. be tougher than the first. 
While the Cubs are owned by "There are a lot of other good 
a publicly held company, the teams and It is hard to maintain 
Chicago Bears is a family busi-intensity. When you're the charr.p 
ness. In May of 1985 the Mccas-everyone is waiting for you." 
key family, the owners of the 

Bears, contacted McKenna and "There is great pressure on the 
asked if he would serve as direc­team in the off season for public 
tor of the franchise. appearances or other requests 
"I think they wanted an outside that are made. A lotof these guys 
director, someone from the out­do a lot of charity work which I 
side who would come in and think is needed and they ou9ht 
hopefully offer a little tiny bit of to do it," McKenna said. 
wisdom." McKenna had high praise for 
In his first year as director, the the coaches and players of the 
Bears marched through the reg­Bears. 

ular season ail the way to the Head Coach Mike Dltka: 
I 
I 
t 
I 
I I I I 
-~-~---~~-----­
The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The ND volleyball team defeated Illinois-Chicago last Roger Clemens, the Boston Red Sox' right-hander who 
night, 7-15, 15-6, 14-16, 15-6, 15-13. This match marked the came back from shoulder surgery to lead the major 
third consecutive time the Irish have trailed in games and leagues with 24 victories, became only the third unanimous 
come back to win. The win pushes their record to 26-6, winner of the American League Cy Young Award yester­
including victories in 22 Qf their last 25 games. -The Ob­day. -Associated Press 
server 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-Penn State game will Iowa State football coach Jim Criner was fired last night. 
be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. -The Observer "As a result of the recently completed university investi­gation of NCAA allegations pertaining to football, new leadership is desired for Iowa State University's football 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in program," said Iowa State University President Gordon The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Stu­Eaton in a statement. Chuck Banker, an assistant, was dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. named acting football coach for the rest of the regular -The Observer season. -Associated Press 
Running 
continued from page 12 

And, adding depth to the team, junior Nancy Loughlin, sopho­more Teresa Kibelstis and freshmen Wendy Murray and Linda Filar will be counted on for a strong appearance Satur­day. 
. It will be very difficult for the Irish to come out of this weekends competition with a NCAA championship berth, but Ryan hopes that the team will run well and possibly send a handful of individuals on to the championship meet. 
The ObaeJVer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­
I I I I I I I 


Classifieds 
MUST HAVE 4 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN!! CALL DAVE AT 2271

NOTICES WANTED 
3 STUDENT PENN ST. TIX 4 SALE TO TYPING AVAILABLE BEST OFFER(S). CHRIS X3113.
WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY 287-4082 
PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO 
I NEED PENN ST. TIX WEEKS! FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME 

PLEASE CALL PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. JIM 289-3482
HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­277-5833 AFTER 5 P.M.
TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151 Wordprocessing Call LaVonne 287-9024 
······························· ·1n DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn 
SELL ME YOUR 4 PENN STATE State GA or Student ticket!!! Call Theresa 

GA'S!!!!! please. C232-5743 Elisa EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL X404 1 ! !I Will pay big! MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Need Penn St. tix
·········"'··· 

GREEN BEER FOR PEEN ST. GA'S. Call Jim at 1874 NEED A UTILE MAGIC IN YOUR LIFE? $$$$$ALSO. CALL FAT TOM C1702. CALL TIM HANLON, 256-1353 Ventriloquist-Magician Waitresses, Waiters needed at Knol­I have my sensibilities you know One of the best, honest. lwood Country Club. No experience nec­-London Fall '86 essary. Knollwood Country Club, 1 6633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277-1541. typing 277-9649 ........................................... NEED 6 PSU TIXS;4 TOGETHER. NICK Are you going to WASHINGTON D.C. or 3591 
O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. O.D.N. BALTIMORE for Thanksgiving? I could THE OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NET­really use a ride. Can leave anytime Tues WANT TO SEE NOTRE DAME CRUSH WORK or Wed. Call Rossana X2903.Thanxs PENN STATE? 2 STUDENT TIX FOR 
IMPORTANT MEETING THURSDAY SALE. CALL 1443 OR 3861. 6 NOV., 7 P.M., AT THE C.S.C. NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE! 
O.D.N. 
PROJECT TO BE SELECTED. WILL PAY$! CALL TOM-1774. Need 2 ND-PSU G. ,;.:·.~ ·;; 1ND:Psil 

O.D.N. 
O.D.N. -BE THERE -O.D.N. Student Tix -WILL PAY ANY PRICE Call: 


O.D.N. I NEED A RIDE TO U OF I CHAMPAIGN Gerry x1062 NOV. 14 CALL JOHN 1050 
NEED PENN ST GA'S -FRED 289-9225 DESPERATE! NEED RIDE TO COLUM­BUS, OH 11121 FOR OSU>MICH GAMEl


LOST/FOUND I 
WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. CALL NEED PENN STATE TIX DAN AT 3677. CALL MIKE AT 2208 OR2t63 

LOST: YELLOW CAT. LAST SEEN 
HELP THIS TURKEY

NEAR ST. JOSEPH'S HALL REWARD. 
PLEASE HELP ME OUTCALL 277-2950, EXT. 2204 OR 272-GET TO ST. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIV­I NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE.

3429. ING! MOM AND DAD MISS ME. 
2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUDENT OR 3 G.A.'S. 
PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 2247 OR 2317. 

LOST: SIX KEYS ON A RING THAT Will share expenses and will be ETER­
SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED NALLY GRATEFUL! Call Laura at 3722. THEM!!! LOST ON 1001. ANNETIE 
Wanted: 4 Penn St. Tics

284-4372. MADISON FOR BREAK? I NEED A 
S. Beckman 513-738-6502 days, 513-661 -9341 after 6 

LOST: BLACK RAYBAN "BEWITCHING" RIDE. WILLING TO SHARE COST. SUNGLASSES ON 1001. ANNETIE KATH 4349 284-4372. 
HELP! 2 GUYS DESPERATE for ride to 
NEED PENN TIX-STUD OR GA. 
PLEASE CALL DIANE-37381LOST: N.D. STARTER JACKET (THE NY,LI. AREA forT-Break. Will share cost 

KIND WITH NOTRE DAME PRINTED or rental. Can leave Tues. CALL JOHN Sports fanactic brother says he's coming ACROSS THE FRONT) WAS TAKEN at 1777. 
to see me but really just wants to seeFROM THEODORE'S ON THE NIGHT Penn. State game. Got a ticket to sell??

OF NOV. 7. IT WAS ORIGINALlY Need ride to Purdue on Fri. Nov. 21 to Patty 2784 · 
PLACED NEAR THE ENTRANCE. IF see I.U. play P.U. YOU PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL Will pay$$$ 
JOE PATERNO IS THE NEXT UNIVER­

MARK AT 1712. NO QUESTIONS WILL Call Chris at 3337 SITY PRESIDENT!!/ Actually, he's just aBE ASKED. 
man whose ego is too big. Contribute to reducing his ego by selling me your GAs STUDENT TICKET BOOK FOUND IN to Saturday's game. I need two of 'em!

SOUTH DINING HALL LAST SUNDAY Call 239-5303 and ask for Trip.
NITE. CALL JAMES AT X3185 TO IDEN­

FORSALE .,

TIFY. 
Help/!!!!_! Need 3 GA's for Penn State or
'

······································· 
as many as you will sell me. Parents areLost at Senior Bar after SMU game: One coming in!l So if you have any Tix call 

navy blue mens jacket. If found please HOOPS Season tix best offer Jon 1738 3830 or 1232call 288-2749. Thanks. 
need 3 PSU Studeni-GA'S CALL t 565 

LOST: GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF, probably in South Dining Hall. Call Elaine 

TICKETS 
Well. Now I need MORE Penn State stud. 

at 272-6016 after 7 pm. REWARD $$$. 
Tix. There are MORE SACRIFICES to per­

LOST BLUE HC WORKS OF I NEED PENN ST. GAs.272-6306 
form! The YOCKMONSTER needs toCHAUCER. I MISS IT!! IF FOUND CALL bring even more victims to NDI!!

ALISON 2778 NEED PENN STATE GAs -CALL 283­Please help me satisfy my yearning for3848. 
bloodLOST: LONG WOOL BLACK DRESS ····················· Call Jeff at 232-5478.

COAT BY "PORTRAIT'. MISTAKENLY Need Penn St Tix 2 GA and 1 STUD $$$ TAKEN F ROM DILLON'S FORMAL Call Kevin at 272-8562 
Need 2 stud tix LAST FRIDAY. REWARD IF FOUND­
for Penn State. 

PLEASE CALL LISA 284-4329 NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1218 Call Dave at 3344 
LOST about two weeks ago, my L.L. I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL Bean, blue and black plaid jacket. Call FRED AT 288-2821 
Help! My parents are threatening to erase Margaret, X4087. 

me from their will if they don't see Penn 
· Need Penn State GA Tix. Will pay big 
State! Need 2 GA's at C1 078.(Colin)

LOST an envelope of pictures in the bucks. Call Joe after 6p.m. 287-4561. North Dining Hall about a week ago. They have great sentimental value. Call Mar­NEED 1-4 PENN STATE.GA'S CALL 
Will pay cash dollars for 2 Penn State garet, X4087. X2266 
student or GA tickets Please call Kevin 

at 277-3786 MISSING : Royal Blue Women's COAT PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. 277-0296. Last seen Chi Chi's, Tues. 1111 1 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's CALL JOHN 11:00pm. PLEASE GIVE ME BACK MY 
1689 COAT !I I don't have the heart to tell NEED 1 PENN ST GA CALL MIKE 1562 Mom that the present she bought for me 
NEED 2 LSU GA'S is "missing" and I'm freezing I Please CALL KEVIN AT 3482 

return coat(&mu~i-colored scarf and NEED ONE STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET gloves...) to LaFortune Lost& found or call FOR PENN STATE. CALL MATTS. AT Desperately seeking 2 Penn St student 277-6033 for reward. NO QUESTIONS 1750. tix. Call 2875. Please. ASKED. 
································································ 
need PSU GA;s 2IT-9794 

Need 2 Penn St. G.A.'s. Call Todd at LOST: GOLD SEIKO LADIES WATCH 
1050. WED. MORNING, NOV.12 BETWEEN CALL 1400-1 need 1 PENN ST. GA or ......................... 
B2 AND HAGGAR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, STUDENT Ticket! Bob$$$ Need Penn State GA's. Will Pay. Call CONTACT KERRY HAVERKAMP 277-1599. 81 59!!! I WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE Student and GA tickets needed for Penn 
.................... IT. State. Willing to pay "scalper's prices" 
Need one Senior Stu or two GA's for This is getting desperate. Call 2339. 

Penn. $$$ x3258 LOST: Light grey heavy wool winter coat. 
···················· 

Lost at Theodore's on last Sat. night be­Need student and GA tickets for Penn Attention all you Californians: what could tween 2-3 AM--It's getting cold and I State. Will give you my roommate in be better than watching NO beat USC? really need it back. If you picked it up return for a good seat. Call Paula at 2976. I have two GA's at £1078. Ask for Colin. 
accidentally, call Gary at x1 153 
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObaeJVer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NEEDED 2 PENN TIX, CALL 1670. ''These guys are weirder than I am!'\­.......... I NEED 2 PENN STATE TICK­"Weird" AI Yankovic THE WALLETS ETS -GA OR STUDENT!!!!' ......... 
AVOID FROSTBITE & MAKE MONEY WILL PAY$$$$$$ -CALL STACY AT FOR IT: CALL 4280 & SELL MATI YEA 'Their sound is difficult to describe, but 2804 TODAY!!II!!! PENN STATE TIX their show is unforgettable.''·Courier, 
Waterloo, lA THE WALLETS I NEED 2 OR 3 PENN ST. GA'S REAL DAYBEE AND JERUSALEM --MY BAD. CALL PAT AT 2034. Help! I need 6 tixs for USC vs. NO in ROOMMIES 
LA. I don't want to have to sit in the • & FAMILY BACK HOME WANTS TO SEE ~ USC section!PLEASE CALL Michelle NO BEAT LSU. I NEED TIX. CALL MIKE-284-5096 ATTENTION TRAVELERS AVOID FARE 2371 INCREASE PURCHASE YOUR AIR­
LINE TICKETS NO LATER THAN MID­I WOULD DO ANYTHING -WELL, JUST NIGHT NOVEMBER 13TH TRAVEL­ABOUT ANYTHING FOR 2 OR 4 PENN MORE LAFORTUNE STUDENT 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND OVER 
THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL KRIS­STATE GA'S) CALL KATHLEEN 4036. CENTER 239-7080
TEN AT 284-4360. 
TORI NYCE. FRIDAY: YOU,GEORGE,& DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN ST. ME! BLOWKISS-P 
RIDER NEEDED TO PITT AlOSTON 
OVERT DAY. KRIS 284-5144. GA'SI CALL KERSTIN 4036 
THE ERGOTHON. It starts today. Come BO MHAITH LIOM 2 PENN STATE see Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s rowers 
NEED A RIDE TO NEW JERSEY OR 
NEAR BY AREAS. WILLING TO SHARE Stud&GA's. Go raibh mhaith agat. Ph. do their thing in the cold outside South
EXPENSES. CALL COLLEEN 284-5451. 239 5370. Dining Hall. See celebrities do that rowing thing. Chills! Spills! Action! Support Notre NEED PENN GA & STUD.TX'S­Dame Crew-the only 5 a.m. social altern­CALL1272 ative.
Ride needed to Cincinnati for Thanksgiv­ing. Can leave Wednesday at noon, pos­
I NEED 2 PSU GAs--X431 1 
sibly sooner. Margaret X4087. 
NEED 2 OR 4 PENN ST. GA'S CALL SHAWN SEX-DOG SEXTON
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$.
JOHN: 1750 

Present this ad and receive an additional t 0% OFF of any used book in storet
HELP-NEED PENN ST. TICKETS-AT Why DO they call you Sex-Dog?
LARGE selection of CliftMonarch Notes. 
LEAST 2 GA'S AND 2 OTHERS STU­
PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St.,
DENT OR GA. CALL JOE AT 1890 just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 Days a week, 10-530NEED 1 OR 2 PENN ST. TIX, STUD OR 
Camp Aiello-Campers we need to know GA. WILL PAY. CALL MIKE 2180 
if you are going. Don't miss your only opportunity to see Paul Aiello in action 

IF YOU DON'T SELL ME YOUR TWO R.E.M FANS'---The end is near. Only five once again. Do South Bend in one night.
GA'S PENN STATE TIX. MY BROTHER copies of our tape are left. This is your be one of the few. the proud. You'll never IS FLYING B-52 OVER NOTRE DAME last chance to hear impossible-to-find im­forg1ve yourself if you miss this one. 
ST.ADIUM AND WILL DROP AS MANY ports. b-sides. and flexi-discs. Act now BOMBS HE WANTS. SO. PLEASE SELL or be forever unhip. 
JUDY ''THE" BEACOM Happy BirthdayME YOUR TIX BEFORE I DIE. CALL 

to the sweetest. funniest, and best 

ME, JJ X32JJ OR STOP AT 141 ALBUMS & TAPES looking (not to mention my favorite) SMC 
KEENAN. THE LA TEST RELEASES chick! Hope it's as fun as last year-1 wish
POP,ROCK, SOUL 
you had a locker Those candles are NEED 2 PENN. TKTS. GA OR STU­
ONLY $6.00 
getting mighty scary. We are two old wo­

CALL JOHN 
DENT. SHARON 284-4346. 
men before our time! I hope it's the best. 

X-1745 
Judy. And . don't worry-1 sent Jon an NEED THREE PENN STATE GA'SI! 

invitation·to Anchorage, Alaska! Love ya, WILL PAY BIG$$$$. WE WILL NOT BE 
CathyUNDER SOLD. X4009. 

TO ANNE AND LANDRY 
I NEED 4 LSU TIX CALL JIM AT 277­
THE WEEKEND WAS INCREDIBLE TODAY'S MY SISTER'S B-DAY. SHE'S 4569 
I DON'T KNOW WHICH ONE OF ¥0U IN NEW HAMPSHIRE WHERE IT I'D LIKE TO TAKE OUT NEXT. LOVE HASN'T SNOWED YET. GO WILDCATS Need 2 PSU GA's John-1722 
YOUR SECRET ADMIRER AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
STILL NEED 1 for PENN STATE call Chris x1371 JOLT!t! Live at 
JOLT/!! YO HOLMES, NEED PSU TICKETS? 2 Eddie's Restuarant JOLT A REVOLT!!! GA's FOR SALE! Best Offer by 11/14. DAN KEUSAL 
Call Jude at 1641 

Acoustic Gutta..Vocals Tomorrow Night B-1 1 
GET READY NO, JOLT IS COMING ... I'M STUCK WITH A PAIR OF PENN 
Call 232-5861 STATE GA'S. GIVE ME YOUR BEST TO A FOODSALES NEAR YOU OFFER. CALL JIM ANYTIME, 283-1941. ATIENTION VOLUNTEERS: If you would like to attend orientation for SHEL­
LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI DOES ANYONE STILL HAVE PENN 
TER FOR THE HOMELESS call 282­STATE TIX? MIGHT-YOU WANT TO 
2397 from 9-5 or 684-3864 5-1 1 by Nov 
SELL THEM KINDA CHEAPLY? CAll Let's see ... I'll have the scallops. the Alas­ME ANYWAYS ... LISA 2595 kan king crab legs, the lobster, whole 
SENIORS!!! I NEED PENN. ST. TICKETS C4072 -You are cordially invited to the Senior also. And don't forget a bo«<e of your BARB Class Block Party for the Northeast best wine. And for my second course .. Neighborhood this Friday from 4 to 6:30 HELP!!! I NEED ONE STUD TICKET pm at the A.C.C. 50 CENT BEVERAGES FOR PENN STATE. CALL MARK at 272­
.. 14 
. ............................. please. Oh, some shrimp would be nice 
SENIORS!!! 1879. 
HAPPY 21ST ANN BEER and CASH is what I have. 1 PENN Lisa I DARK HAIR...DARK EYES... 

STATE ST. TIX is what I need. PLEASE, Best wishes 
I STILL SAY WHAT COULD BE BETIER HELP ME. JIM 3268 
on the actuarial exam! 
LOVE ROB

Lisa II NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX PLEASE CALL 284-5223 
JOHN PARKER,

I NEEo--A RIDE TO MICH. FOR BREAK. 
SORRY ABOUT THE BREAKUP. 

NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS PLEASE CALL COLLEEN-284-4149 THERE ARE OTHER BOATS IN THE 
CALL ANNETIE 284-4312 BAY! 
-THE RICHARDS MY MOTHER TOLD ME I AM A DIS­GRACE, BECAUSE NO ONE IN OUR FAMILY HAS EVER HAD ANYTHING JOHN DEEGAN, 
LIKE BORBORYGMUS. --SUE CONGRATULATIONS ON THE 
RHODE SCHOLARSHIP NOMINA­SAB Presents THE WAllETS Sat., Nov. TION! 15 9:30p.m. Theodore's FREE!!/ GOOD LUCK! 
Christian theology contradicts Deuteronomy 28; theological anti­"You can put these guys on the bus to Semitism vs. the doctrine of the "resur­the Twilight Zone." -Red Carpet Lounge, 2 GUYS SEEKING RIDE TO THE rection of the dead" taught by Jesus. St.Cioud,MN THE WALLETS MAJOR METOPOLIS OF OMAHA, NE 
Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. Will Bend, IN 46634-4475 . "Why didn't you warn us they were SHARE EXPENSES. 
moonmen?"--Geo. Mason U,Fairfax THE CALL TIM X1658 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, WALLETS CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Notre Dame Crew team, the craziness 
continues. You thought a 24 hour run HI ANGIE, MOLLY, MORIA, LORIE, ARTS AND LETIERS was long? Come watch 50 continuous TRISH, AUSA, NATALIE, EVE, EILEEN, COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! hours of erging outside the South Dining MOE, ELLEN. BRIDGET (HOPE ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING hall. Sponser your favorite rower and DIDN'T FORGET ANYONE) HALLS OR CALL 283-1163. $12.00 watch them sweat. Support the only 5 ROB 

PERSONALS 
a.m. social alternative. 

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 9 


SWEENEY 
Daily and Nighdy Spedals with free munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thru Saturday 
10:00 pm-Close 
tloin our "Around the World with 80 Beers"Club 


Fumble recovery record 
Figaro works on pass rush 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
Is it luck, or skill, or both? 
When Cedric Figaro fell on a fumble last Saturday against SMU, it was almost as if the scene of watching number 48 fall on a football that the other team's offense just happened to drop, had become part of the season ticket package. 
"I've never seen anything like it," says outside limeback­ers coach Kurt Schotten­heimer. 
But that is not really all that provocative of a statement. The fact is that nobody associ­ated with Notre Dame football has seen anything like it. Ever. 
The previous Irish record for fumble recoveries in a season was five, shared by six players. 
Phone 2n-6368 6402 Grape Road Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 

Figaro has seven so far this season, and there are still three games left on the schedule. 
But Figaro, a junior, has played in every game since his freshman year, and hadn't come up with a fumble in all that time. So what's all that dif­ferent about this year? 
"This is the first year I've been concentrating on pass rushing," says the 6-3, 232­pound Figaro. "We worked on it a little bit in my sophomore year, but now we work on it all the time. 
"Most of it's just getting to the ball. Now we're creating the fumbles. Every day in prac­tice we work on getting to the ball. Last year (on the defense), we'd normally only send eight guys after the foot­ball and drop three back. This year we send allll guys. 
"Every day it's,'run to the ball, get to the ball," continues Figaro. "And if we get tired and start slacking off, coach Schott makes sure we keep going." 
For Figaro, this new style of 
defense may mean a lot more 
work, but it also means a lot 
more fun. 
"Last year it would depend 
on the defense we called as to 
what I'd be doing. Sometimes 
Bob (Banks) would drop back 
and I'd rush, and sometimes it 
would be the other way around. 
"Dropping back was fun, but 
I'm the type of player who 
prefers being in the contact 
zone." 

The contact zone is really 
where Figaro belongs, as was 
shown last week against SMU. 
One questionable call involving 
a late hit on SMU quarterback 
Bobby Watters cost the Irish 15 
yards. 


McCann 
continued from page 12 
our wrestlers beat guys who they lost to in the past." 
Notre Dame finished 13 points ahead of fourth-place Central Michigan, who won a dual meet between the two schools in 1985. 
Notre Dame has participated in the Michigan State Invita­tional in each of the past ten years. In the last three years, under the direction of McCann, the team has finished in ninth, sixth, and second place. 
"It is a very competitive tournament," said McCann. "Michigan State always ap­pears at the top of the Big Ten. Central Michigan is the defend-
Faust 
continued from page 12 
for the sake of reference, that's one behind Missouri (77-0 losers to Oklahoma) and only 79 notches below the 21st­ranked Irish. 
Things are going so well for Faust, in fact, that rumors began circulating last week that Wisconsin was interested in hiring him to fill the Badgers' head coach vacancy. 
·Faust reportedly has an escape clause in his contract that al­lows him to leave the Zips if he gets an offer from the Big Ten, ACC, or, yes, Notre Dame. 
No word yet on whether any 
"The quarterback ran a naked bootleg and I really couldn't tell if he had the ball when I hit him," says Figaro. "After that play, I got a good hit on the quarterback and that got us back up again." 
The physical style of play Figaro has adopted was part of him long before he came to Notre Dame. In Lafayette, La., where Figaro played his high school ball, you either played the physical game or you didn't play at all. 
"Every game, every prac­tice was a war," explains Figaro. "I still like to play the rough style of football. Up North, it's a different game. It isn't as big up here. 
"Up here, guys help people up. Some players say 'nice shot' when they get hit during a game. Down South, if there's a back that comes to your side, you hit him hard and talk to him, and say things like, 'Don't come back here,' or 'Don't run over this way again.' 
"We played the game where we wanted the other guys to get mad at you or want to kill you,'' continued Figaro. "If they were thinking about that, then they wern't thinking of what they had to do as much. In high school, they taught us to do that." 
While three years up North 
have mellowed Figaro ("this 
year I helped one guy up"), he 
still adheres to a few rules from 
the deep South. 
"I won't let the other player know they got a good shot on me. During the game, I'll never let him know he got the best of me. It makes him wonder,'What's this guy think­ing?"' 
ing Mid-American Conference champions, and Ferris State is the Division III champion, so you can't be upset about where we finished." 
What Notre Dame can be up­set about is injuries. Both 126­pound Dave Carlin and 190­pound Dan Mitchell will be out for several weeks due to injur­ies suffered last weekend. Car­lin has a bad elbow and Mitchell has a sore shoulder. 
"The key to a successful season is to stay away from in­juries," said McCann. "Notre Dame has the toughest schedule in its history and we can't afford to have people out with injuries." 
The team's next competition will be a home dual meet against Air Force on Novem­ber 19. 
of the ACC schools are inter­ested. 
• 

Paterno must be feeling very confident these days as he gets his team ready for its game with the Irish. At least that's the way it appears based on the coach's comments to the Chicago Tribune. 
"The first time I went to play at Notre Dame Stadium," he said, "everyone told me about the mystique. To tell the truth I didn't feel anything different. 
"I think Notre Dame has got a fine football tradition, but so do Alabama, Southern Cal, Michigan, and others. I don't think there's any unusual mys­tique about Notre Dame any longer, especially not to the younger kids." 
The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1986 -page 10 

Instincts put Lawrence 'in right place' on field 
By RICK RIETBROCK He has that knack for being in Sports Writer the right place at the right time." Being in the right place at the For a defensive back, being right time. opportunistic translates into in­
There is something about this terceptions and fumble intangible that cannot be recoveries and Lawrence has coached, improved or created. his share. With a fumble Either you have it or you do recovery and an interception not. this season, Lawrence now has 
Luckily for the Irish, Steve nine recoveries in his career Lawrence has it. and eight interceptions.· 
The senior free safety has es­His total of five fumble tablished himself as a consis­recoveries last season tied a tent player in the Irish second­Notre Dame single-season ary, and he adds some record, which has since been excitement as well. Secondary eclipsed by Cedric Figaro. His coach Terry Forbes says he career total of nine is three shy 
I thinks the past few weeks are of the career mark of 12 heldI an indication of what Lawrence by Ross Browner.
I I 
can do. Lawrence agrees that his op­I "He has been playing very portunism is not something I well lately," Forbes says. that he has worked on, or been I "He's very experienced, and he taught.
I 
~ just does a lot of things right. "It's something that's natu­
game. The Irish are still waiting to 



I Pointer 
get a little more experience on

! I continued from page 12 
their roster. a fine job up front." "Sophomores Bob Herber at
l 
Guay scored the only Irish right wing and Torn Smith atI goal in the second Kent State left wing are coming back from 
I I 
I 
I 
All are invited to the 
I 
Junior Class Bonfire 
I 
! 
~ 
TONIGHT

I 
I 
Thursday, November 13 
White Field (Across from Stepan Center) 10:00p.m. 

Guest Speaker: LOU HOLTZ
' 
Let's help Lou "Fire Up" for Penn State. 
ral," says the Ypsilanti, Mich., 
native. "It's not something that 
I really think about. I an­
ticipate pretty well." 
The Irish could anticipate Lawrence would be a pretty good player based on his high school accomplishments. He was an all-state selection as a junior and a senior as a defen­sive back. He also earned honorable mention for the AdidasScholastic Coach prep All-American squad. 
It did not take long for Lawrence to get into the swing of things once he arrived, and he received some helping hands. 
"We didn't have much depth when I got here, so Troy Wilson and I were second-team right away, behind Stacey Toran and Chris Brown," he says. "That situation definitely helped me 
knee injuries," said Smith. "They'd have a little more ex­perience and a little more quickness. We lost three big scorers in the likes of (Tim) Reilley, (Brent) Chapman, and (Bob) Thebeau. 

develop quicker, and those guys really helped me, too." 
Now it is Lawrence who is the experienced member of the group. The 6-4, 194-pound bal­lhawk also packs a wallop as evidenced by his 23 solo tackles and 10 assists. Forbes says that Lawrence is also taking over the job of showing the younger players the ropes. 
"He leads by example," Forbes says. "He really en­courages the team from the sidelines, and just exerts a great deal of positive leader­ship." 
His experience and leader­ship show in his attitude toward drive-stopping. He likes to be the one the team can depend on to make the crucial play that stops a drive. 
"I just like to make the play that can turn the game around,'' the psychology major says. "I like any big play in general, whether it be a recovery, an interception or a big hit." 
Being in a position to make the momentum-stopping play is what the free safety position is all about. It is also what Steve Lawrence is all about. 

tl~ SUNGLASS a '{ University Park Mall q 

t 
RAY-BANS NOW 25% OFF TO ALL CUSTOMERS WITH STUDENT ID GET 251Jr. OFF REG. PRICE OFANYSUNGLASSESINSTOCK 
NAMESUKE: VUARNET, CARRERA, BOLLE and CHARLES JOURDAN 
THIS SPECIAL OFFER TO STUDENTS EXPIRES 11/23/86 
SAB presents:---------­




JERRY FALWELL 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13 7:00pm WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATING-Free tickets distributed at the Washington Hall Ticket Office: Wednesday, Nov.l2 and Thursday, Nov. 13, 12:00 to 6:00pm ND/SMC Student, Faculty, or Staff ID required One ticket per ID 

Double Toppings of your choice-21tems or more 
$1.50o,. 
101 MAMMA•a "IZZA 
With Any (21teml or More) Pizza With Any 18" Deluxe or SupremaStendard 2 For 1 

Standerd-2 For 1 101 MAMMA'a "IZZ,A 
216·1611 or 212..0677 


']I['~4tJiltt~t~------------------------------------------------------•T•h•u•rs•d•a•y,•N•o•v•em
..be•r•1•3•,1•9•86•-•p•a•g•e•11• 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
\SABpresents 
SAB Presents: 
Reserved seating: FREE ticket distribution
The Wallets 
at the Washington Hall Ticket Office 
9:30pm at Theodores Saturday, November 15 
JERRYFALWELL I 
Thursday, Nov. 13 7:00pm 
Wed., Nov.12and Thurs., Nov.13 12-6:00 pm 
ND/SMC student, faculty or staff ID required 
I 
.one ticket per 10 
I \ I 

"And this report just in ... Apparently,
~ ! 

the grass is greener on the other side." 
-( 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Awestruck 6 Golliwogg 
10 Food for 

livestock 14 Hue 15 Seethe 16 Indian 17 Puck 20 Stop -dime 21 Pub specialty 22 Water lines 23 Comp. pt. 24 Wanderer 27 Former Dodger 33 Raison d'­34 Anatomically 
outward 35 Man in a ring 37 Sault -Marie 38 Swab 40 Kaline and 
Oliver 41 Regret deeply 42 Youngster 43 Violin name 45 Unclean matter 
46 Famed castaway e>t986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 11/13/86

50 Cream of the All Rights Reserved 
crop 51 Flushed 12 In the near 52 F:arming name future 55 Nothing 13 Wields an axe 56 Drive to anger 18 Great joy 59 Gangster 19 Makes 
prototype co"ections 64 Old-time dill 23 Make do 65 Boaters' tools 24 Mythical bird 66 Instrument 25 Get 
of Casals 26 Medicine 67 Uncommon container 68 Gaelic 27 Quip 69 Bird sound 28 Extract of 
rose petals 
DOWN 29 Belief system 1 Height: pref. 30 Meal 2 Unsavory 31 Fragrant root 
strikebreaker 32 Kind of ' 3 Old love song surgeon 
4 Luau food 36 Lavish 48 Com or baby 56 Seagirt land 5 Verdi opera entertainment holder 57 Actor's part 6 Woodwind 38 Author Norman 49 Survivor 58 Snarl 7 Sticky stuff 39 Atlanta 52 Beloved 60 Lady deer 8 Disencumber feature 53 A Millay 61 Long-nosed 9 Sprite 44 Pedal digit 54 Pitcher fish 
10 Teeth 45 Failure 55 Durante 62 Carriers: abbr. 11 Gudrun's mate 47 Scold feature 63 Unused 
..­

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
LID C OlDie E AIN,Iolu A 
I VAN R 0 DIEIO IPIU R R 
M A S T E R M I NID R I G A 
ELTON.ETE.8EZEL 

p I 
y s 
M­
T H•A 8 

!~1..-DRESSER.ANA 
REA SIS E R-1 SIO N 
T 0 N E E A T A T L I 
ENDER A 8 I NJ.J~ 
L EM. 8 U C K L E D. -A R E N A. E L L A A S stfR I N • EL U 0 E 
HATE MASTEiPLAN 
ARES AFTER HAL_O_ 
B A R E G E 0 ID E A N E W 
11/13/86 

Campus 
8:00a.m. -11:30 p.m.: Display at the CSC 
from the Chicago Peace Museum for A 
Call to Peacemaking Week 
10:00 a.m.: SMC Student Affairs Lecture Topic: The Drug Crisis; Experimentation and Dependecy, Stapleton Lounge 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Democracy and Authority: Latin America in the 1940's." by Ian Rox­borough, Political Science Department, London School of Economists, 131 Decio 
12:15 p.m.: 15-minute prayer service for A Call to Peacemaking Week, CSC Chapel 
4:00 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Faculty Forum "Building World Security After the Reykjavik Sum­mit," by Dr. Robert Johanse, World Policy Institute, and Senior Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, for fur­ther information call 239-6970 4:00p.m.: Radiation Laborator)l Seminar "Radical Reactions Involving Iron Prop­hyrins: A Molecular Approach to the Toxicity of Halogenated Alkanes," by Dr. Daniel Brault, Museum National d'Historie Naturelle, Paris, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory 4:30p.m.: Anthropology Lecture, "Social Science and Business: A Meeting of Minds," by Dr. John Sherry, Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University, 120 Hayes­Healy 4:30-7:00 p;m.: Expo Rom a '86, exhibition of student work in Rome, Italy, Architec­ture Bldg. Gallery 
6:00p.m.: Presentationteception for any Marketing or ALP student interested in career opportunities with Foote, Cone and Beldin, Alumni room, Morris Inn 7:00p.m.: SAB lecture by Dr. Jerry Fal­well, Thomas Road Baptist Church, Lynchburg, Virginia, Washington Hall 
7:00 p.m.: Meeting, Overseas Develop­ment Network, Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m.: Presentationteception for any Finance, Accountancy, Management or Arts and Letters student interested in car­rer opportunities with Northern Trust Company, Upper Lounge, University Club 7:00p.m.: Meeting of the Rocky Mtn Club consisting of NM, ID, WY, CO, UT, MT, in order to elect officers, New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
7:30 
p.m.: ND College Republicans Lec­ture by Bosco Matamores, Head of the Nicaraguan Force, Library Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum of Art "What is Art?" Series Lecture, "Painting and Sculpture of the Greeks and Romans," by Brian Madigan, SMC, An­nenberg Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.: Concert by Ken Medema, singer, composer, pianist, and music ther­apist, due to limited seating for the con­cert, complimentary passes are required and may be obtained at .Century Center Box Office or Family and Children's Cen­ter, free tickets availabJe at the esc, O'Laughlin Auditorium 8:00p.m.: Fall Choral Concert featuring the SMC woman's choir and the SMGND Collegiate Choir, directed by Nancy Menk, SMC, Little Theatre 8:00p.m.: Presentationteception for any student with an interest in Economics, sta­tistics, or similar quantitative discipline 


·interested in career opportunities with 
E.F. Hutton, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 9:00p.m.: Movie; "Cerease", $1 donation for United Way, Carroll Hall, SMC 


Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
Wf'R£ AU SIJPfOS£0 TO ~~ IJEAR OUR NEW CAMWFLN.E \\\ 

•• BIJTKIS... CARLSON..•. YOO! -~ 
NWNILE : BACK AT N.P. rBUT-BUT-I CAN'T 5££. \~ 
(XJ(f,I/TS TOPAY. ~ ~ I 
£AMOIJFI.A6{ ()llfFITS?
fKNOJ.J, 

~ 
Sl/1. tf'J 
I Alf R.0.1.l. 
".,.. I'~OJECT. -;.. CAREFVL,StR. ~ 
15 MY 
SfR6EP.NT. 
I ~ 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 13, 1986-page 12
SRorts 
Wrestling takes 2nd at Mich. St. 
By CHRIS KILEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling 
team opened its season on the 
road this past weekend at the 
Michigan State Invitational 
and returned with a second­
place finish behind host Mic­
higan State .. 
Head Coach Fran McCann 
was aprehensive about the 
results. 
" It was a typical good news, 
bad news situation," said 
McCann. "Although we did 
come in second place, we still 
didn't win, and that was our 
goal." 
The surprise of the tourna­
ment was freshman Andy 
Radenbaugh in the 118-pound 
division. Radenbaugh won the 
tournament by defeating last 
year's tournament champion, 
who was also a NCAA qualifier. 
Three other wrestlers were 
also crowned champions. Pat 
Boyd won the 142-pound divi­
sion while both Ron Wisniewski 
and Chris Geneser won their 
respective divisions with pins 
in the finals. 
Lone senior Dave Helmer 
and 158-pound Dan Carrigan 
both looked respectable · al­
though they did not place. Cap­
tain Jerry Durso, however, 
finished a disappointing third 
place. 
As one of the top 134­
pounders in the nation, Durso 
was heavily favored to win the 
tournament. After reaching the 
semifinals, Jerry was upset in 
the finals by a wrestler he had 
defeated last year. 
"One of our goals was to have 
five champions and we had four," stated McCann. "I was . most pleased because many of 
see MCCANN, page 9 
Irish defenseman Lance Patten (3) and the rest but the offense needs to increase its goal pro­of the defense played well against Kent State, duction at the Pointer Classic this weekend. 
ND needs improved offense tomorrow at Pointer Classic 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
After the Notre Dame hockey team lost two season-opening games in which the defense played well enough to win, Head Coach Lefty Smith is looking for an improved offense when the Irish take to the ice this weekend in the Pointer Classic. 
"The key to this tourna­ment will be our scoring ability. We have to put the puck in the nets," said Smith. "In our two games against Kent State, we played well defensively and only allowed six goals in two games, but we didn't play well enough offensively." 
·Notre Dame faces St. John's (Minn.) tomorrow at 5 p.m., then will meet either Augsburgh or Wisconsin-Stevens Pofnt on Saturday. Wisconsin-Stevens Point is hosting the tournament. 
"We don't know much about St. John's, but Stevens Point and Augsburgh are very competitive," said Smith. "We're certainly going up there with.the idea of winning, yet it's tough to see how they'll respond on the road." 
Smith is hoping that an ex­tra three weeks of practice will work to the advantage of the 0-2 Irish. Notre Dame had only two weeks of prac­tice before the 4-2 and 2-1 losses to Kent State. The Irish have had three weeks off since then. 
"We seem to have made some improvements on the power play, but we've only been playing against our­selves, so we can't really tell." said Smith. "We'd like to feel we've improved, but the proof in the pudding is when you go against some­one else." 

Three freshmen will receive starting assign­ments this weekend. Tim Kuehl will start on the front line, Kevin Markovitz will be on the defensive end, and Lance Madson will start at goalie. 
Kuehl scored in the season opener, and Markovitz had an assist in the same game. In the second game, Madson recorded 28 saves and al­lowed only two goals. 
"We've been pleased with our freshmen," said Smith. "Markovitz and (Mike) Leherr have done well on defense, Madson has been good in the nets, and Kuehl and (Bruce) Guay have done-
see POINTER. page 10 
Merkel leads Irish at districts 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
As the snow begins to fall around the Notre Dame campus, most students are busy running towards the warmth of their dorm rooms. But for the 17 dedicated women of the Notre Dame cross country team, these icy days are just one of the many they have spent since August not just running, but outrunning their competition. 
The Irish hope to highlight an already impressive season with a strong finish in the NCAA District IV meet this Saturday. They hope to finish in the top 20 and possibly even better if the team runs well against the powerful teams of the Big Ten and Mid-America conferences, as well as against the defending National Cham­pions from the University of Wisconsin. 
Under the guidance of first­year coach Dan Ryan, the team will look to continue its consis­tently strong showings that have included first-place showings against 12 teams in the Southwestern Michigan In­vitational and against 14 teams in the Indiana Intercollegiate meet. 
Having finished second in the North Star Conference behind an experienced team from DePaul, the Irish will look to follow in the footsteps of junior Julia Merkel, who has led them to top-ten finishes in every in­vational they have competed in this year. 
Junior Kathleen Lehman and sophomore Theresa Rice will look to qualify for the NCAA champion-ship meet as well. 
see RUNNING, page 8 

-. 
Green given brief look· at defen.sive back 
It wouldn't be the first time a Notre Dame tail­back switched over to defensive back, but it might be the most surprising. 
Following the tradition of Irish runners like Hiawatha Francisco' and Corny Southall, both promising tailbacks that were moved at one time in their careers to defensive back, Mark Green spent Monday afternoon's practice working out with the defense at the request of Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
While the move itself may not be that surprising -Green was a standout defensive back in high school and played flanker for the Irish all last year -the timing is certainly so. The 6-0, 183-pound sophomore has gained 248 yards rushing this year while split­ting time with freshman Anthony Johnson, and with only three games to go it would seem unusual to make such a drastic change. 
"We've got some guys hurting in the secondary," said Irish secondary coach Terry Forbes, referring to the nagging injuries plaguing Marv Spence and Chris Kvochak, as well as the season losses of Brandy Wells and Mike Haywood. "Mark: is a talented all-round player, and we just wanted to look at him there in order to find the best combin­ations possible." 
While this may mean a permanent change for Green in the future, don't count on seeing him anywhere else but in the offensive backfield against Penn State on Saturday. 
"Mark's practiced on both sides of the ball this week," said Forbes. "We're not sure yet how we'll use him against Penn State, but he'll be a factor somehow.'' 
For the second time in three weeks, a Notre Dame player has been named AP Midwest Player of the Week. Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein picked up the award this week after connecting on 11-of-20 passes for a career-high 269 yards in directing his squad to its 61-29 rout of SMU. 

Marty
Burns 
Football Notebook 

Two weeks ago, Beuerlein's favorite target Tim Brown received the honor for his performance in Notre Dame's 31-3 victory over Air Force. 
For Beuerlein, the award caps an impressive three-week stretch that has seen him settle down and complete a combined 32-of-53 passes for three touchdowns and no interceptions. This leadership has not gone unnoticed by Holtz, who credits much of his team's recent success to Beuerlein's im­proved direction of the offense. 
"Why have we been playing better?" asked Holtz. "I think Beuerlein has really played well. He's got more confidence and he's blending in well with the football team." 
On Saturday, of course, it will be critical to Notre Dame's upset chances that Beuerlein have a good day. Although the senior signal-caller had a nightmarish day in the rain at Penn State last season, he has had two of his finest performances against the Lions previously. In 1983, Beuerlein hit 14-of-20 passes for 257 yards, while in 1984 he com­pleted 20-of-28 for 267 yards. Both of those totals were career-bests in yardage. • 
• 

Holtz has one more thing to add to the growing list of reasons for the importance of the upcoming matchup with head coach Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions. 
So far we've all heard about the role it will play in deciding Notre Dame's bowl chances, Penn State's bowl choice, Miami's national championship bid, and the financial situation of the Fiesta, Citrus, and Gator Bowls. 
"Notre Dame and Penn State, Notre Dame and Southern Cal, Notre Dame and Michigan," said Holtz, "are all big rivalries that generate a lot of excitement. But because of recruiting it gets in­tense. They're all fine institutions and you recruit against these teams. Because of what's involved there, this game is so crucial." 
• 

Remember Faust Fever? It may still be accom­panied by dizziness and nausea in some Irish fans, but not so 300 miles east of here on the campus of Akron. 
The Fighting Zips have rolled up a 7-2 slate so far this season, good enough for a rank of an even No. 100 in this.week's USA Today computer. Just 
see FAUST, page 9 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 







