Social life-page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 104 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Dancin' Irish disbandment to be discussed by committee 
By MIRIAM HILL the committee to recommend that the Dancin' Irish "were Senior Staff Reporter reversing the decision to dis­more bothersome than help­band the group. ful," said Corrigan, a member 
The fate of the Dancin' Irish The committee will make a of the board. In addition, he hangs in the balance today, as recommendation to University said, the board was concerned a committee of eight faculty, Vice President Father Ed­about people who appeared on students and administrators mund Joyce and Vice President the field during football games, meet to discuss a recent deci­for Student Affairs Father but did not officially represent sion to disband the group. David Tyson, who will make the University. 
"I guess there might be a the final decision on the Dan­number of issues ... we want cin' Irish. "There were people who to look at once again and see if The group was disbanded began to show up at football there are things we can do to Jan. 20 after the faculty board games with leprechaun cos­help the Dancin' Irish or to see in control of athletics, chaired tumes and everything else, and if the particular reasons given by Joyce, voted to allow only so the board just decided to by the faculty board are so sub­the cheerleaders and the have the cheerleaders and the stantive that it would warrant marching band to represent the band represent the Univer­disbanding the Dancin' Irish," University, according to Direc­sity," Corrigan said. said Assistant Vice President tor of Athletics Gene Corrigan. The Dancin' Irish is a group Father Peter Rocca, chairman The board agreed to allow the of Notre Dame and Saint_ of the committee. Dancin' Irish to perform until Mary's women who provide 
Dancin' Irish Co-Captain Sue the end of this semester, Novak halftime entertainment at foot­Novak said her group had col­said. ball and basketball games. lected more than 1,000 signa­The faculty board had tures on petitions encouraging received letters complaining see DANCIN', page 4 
FBI director selected to head CIA 
Associated Press dergoing surgery for brain can­remarkable depth and breadth 
cer. of experience, as well as an out­

WASHINGTON -President Reagan had nominated the standing record of achieve­Reagan on Tuesday chose FBI CIA's acting director, Robert ment, to this position." director William Webster as Gates, to take over the top spot. Fitzwater said there were director of the CIA, the White But the president withdrew "no candidates yet" to replace House announced. that nomination Monday after Webster at the FBI. 
White House spokesman it became clear Gates would Justice Department sources Marlin Fitzwater said the pres­face stiff Senate opposition be­said a debate was still under ident called Webster at 10:20 cause of the Iran-Contra affair way over who would be 
a.m. EST Tuesday and offered and the CIA's involvement in nominated to take over the him the job. Webster "said he it. FBI, but that the leading can­wanted some time to consider The nomination of Webster, didate was U.S. district Court this and would let us know as on the other hand, received Judge Lowell Jensen, who had soon as possible," Fitzwater quick praise from Senate Dem­served as deputy attorney gen­added. ocratic Leader Robert Byrd of eral in the Reagan administra­
Webster called back at 6:04 West Virginia, who called him tion before being appointed to 
p.m. EST, after news of these­"a highly regarded profes­a judgeship in San Francisco. lection leaked out, and ac­sional who will bring much­Before coming to Washing­cepted the job. needed credibility to the CIA.'' ton, Jensen served for many 
If confirmed by the Senate, Reagan, in a statement years as a county prosecutor in Take it in stride The ObserverJSusan Poch Webster would replace William released at the White House, Mike Manning, sporting spring fashions and a smile, enjoys an Casey, who resigned after un-said, "Bill Webster will bring see WEBSTER, page 4 easy walk on north quad Tuesday. 


'Great Hunger Cleanup' and Regatta discussed by HPC 
By REGIS COCCIA live entertainment and a 
Assistant News Editor party will be held at the boat­
house. 

The Fisher Hall Regatta The "Great Hunger 
and the "Great Hunger Cleanup", sponsored by the 
Cleanup" were two of the Overseas Development Net­
topics discussed at Tuesday work, is a community im­
night's Hall Presidents' provement effort to raise 
Council meeting. money for the hungry 
The Regatta, a boat race around the world. ODN 
sponsored by Fisher Hall, is Chairman Sophie Twarog 
scheduled to be held Aprilll spoke to the HPC and asked 
on St. Mary's Lake. "All for representatives from 
boats have to be crafted out each dorm to help with the 
of material that is not a real event on April 11. 
boat," Fisher Hall President Twarog said participants 
Bob Daley said. "We're raise money through 
looking for two entries from pledges for community ser­
each dorm." vice. Participants in the 
Daley said money raised project help to paint, repair 
from the event will go to the and clean up various sites 
Center for Basic Learning around South Bend and Mis­
Skills, a charity organiza­hawaka. Twarog said there 
tion which helps illiterate will be an organizational 
youth and adults learn to 
read and write. Daley said see HPC, page 5 

Curran to teach at ND this summer 
By MARK DICKINSON senting views on Catholic Catholic U., unlike Notre Senior Staff Reporter sexual ethics. Dame, is a Vatican-chartered Curran disagrees with the university whose theologians 
Catholic theologian Father Church's unconditional con­must' be liscensed by Rome. Charles Curran, who was demnation of such issues as McBrien said Curran's invi­suspended from teaching at abortion, which he says could tation to Notre Dame was not Catholic University of America be justified in some cases to given in response to his suspen­for his views on sexual ethics, save the life of the mother. sion. He says Curran was in­will teach a class this summer Curran also disagrees with vited in May 1985 and accepted at Notre Dame. the Church's teaching regard­within a month. The Vatican 
Notre Dame theology depart­ing homosexuality. Curran was made its announcement in Au­ment chairman, Father Rich­quoted as saying that irrever­gust 1986, and Curran was ard McBrien, however, sible homosexuality, !'in the suspended from teaching at stressed that Curran's invita­context of a loving relationship Catholic U. in January 1987. tion to come here was extended striving for permancency, can McBrien added, we "honor our more than a year before his in a certain sense be objec­contracts." suspension. tively morally acceptable." 
Curran appealed the The Vatican mentioned noth­

McBrien said Curran plans to Vatican's decision, claiming he ing about Curran teaching at teach a one week graduate had the right to dissent on the another Catholic school, course in Catholic Social Et­Church's view of sexual ethics McBrien said. hics, beginning June 29th. because, he feels, the Church's McBrien also said he was 
Curran gained national at­teachings are not infalliable. "not worried" that any contro­tention in August 1986 when the Catholic U. suspended him with versy would arise from Cur­Vatican revoked his authoriza­pay for the spring semester, ran's visit this summer. tion to teach theology at Cath­pending the outcome of his ap­Curran could not be reached olic' U. on the basis of his dis-peal. for comment. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 2 

In Brief 
Three Notre Dame students won speech honors in the 1987 Indiana State Individual Events Championships held last weekend in Terre Haute, IN. Junior Dominic Alfaro won second place in Poetry Interpretation and sixth place in Prose; junior Sean O'Donnell placed fifth in Im­promptu Speaking and freshman Jim McCarthy placed first in Impromptu and fifth in Extemporaneous Speaking. 
-The Observer 
Cadets of Notre Dame's Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Detachment 235 will open ABC­TV's "Good Morning America" on Saint Patrick's Day. Two hundred and fifty members of the "Flying Irish" will gather on the steps of the administration building at 4:30 
p.m. today to videotape the greeting that traditionally begins the network show. -The Observer 
The Student Affairs programming board at its meeting Tuesday night announced to hold an educational program on AIDS for members of student government, resident advisers and members of the task force on AIDS, said Sarah Cook, vice president for student affairs. Ella Harmeyer will conduct the program using a video tape by Tom Brokaw on attitudes towards AIDS, she said. -The 9bserver 

Of Interest 
"OfficeVisits¥1antTrips-LearnWhatToExpect on Second Interviews"is the title of a workshop to be pre­sented by Kitty Arnold of the Career and Placement Ser­vices. It will be held at the Career and Placement Services Conference Room today from 4-5 p.m. All interested stu­dents are invited to attend. -The Observer 
"Feminist & Catholic: Is It Possible?" will be the title of a lecture by Regina Coli of the Notre Dame Department of Theology, sponsored by the Thomas More Society, tonight at 7 in the Little Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
"Who's Running This War?," a documentary about the role of Colonel Oliver North and the National Security Council in the Contra War, will be shown tonight at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Steve Francis, an economics graduate student, will present the film. This event is sponsored by the Graduate Association for Latin Amnerica. -The Observer 
A Women's Non-Traditional Career Fair will be presented Thursday from noon to 6 p.m. at the Century Center, downtown South Bend. The fair will offer presentations by more than 25 local organizations. For 
more information contact Susan Searight in the Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Office, 284­4565. -The Observer 
John Reid, Director of Channel, a Seattle based ministry program that provides support and train­ing services, will be at the Center For Social Concerns today and Thursday. Reid is a Notre Dame graduate and former Director of Student Activities. Potential jobs in­clude teaching, parish ministry and social justice work. All seniors are invited to stop by and meet John Reid, or call ahead to make an appointment. -The Observer 

Weather 
The Winter machine malfunc­
-----~ 
tioned this week and remains inopera­
k 
:0-I
tional. Area climate operators blamed ' 
the shut-down on "serious design flaws." 
As a result, warm temps will continue """"" 
to leak off the production line with a high 
of 44 today and sunny with a· high of 48 
for tomorrow. -Associated Press 



SacrificeforLenthclpsone become a better Christian 
Lent always seems to creep up when I least expect it, and often when I need it most. In the pre-spring lull, when everything is grey and everyone seems preoccupied with the monotonous happenings of acadamia, out of nowhere comes Ash Wednesday. Catholics go to mass, get a cross smeared on their foreheads and are forced to think about Lent for the simple reason that they are marked as Catholic. 
The first thought that crosses my mind each year is what to give up for forty days. This act of penitence is an attempt to bring Christ back into my life. God has become a distant priority in my hectic, self-created reality of deadlines and overcommitment. Lent is a chance to reflect on the things that really matter in this world. 
Doing penitence during Lent is a personal tradition for me rather than something the church imposes upon me. I usually pick some­thing that will be hard to give up, but something I could do without anyway. One year I gave up caffine. Another year I quit putting salt on my food. (The "salt of the earth" is not necessarily good for the body.) 
By Easter I had lost my craving for salt as well as the psychological need for caffine. When I asked what others were giving up, I often got responses like, "I'm giving up going on hot dates seven nights a week." A common one was always, "I'm going to give up studying." The fact that these people decided not to take Lent seriously strengthened my own conviction. I had to ask myself, "Why am I doing this? Does it really matter?" Yes, it does. Christ gave up his life for us. The least I can do is participate in a simple mind game that forces me to re­member that. 
Oh, sure, we give up meat on Fridays during Lent. At Notre Dame, it's pretty difficult not to. The dining hall always serves seafood on Fridays, Lent included. The endless debate ensues. Does this lack of choice make the fast from meat meaningless? My first response is that we're missing the point. The dining hall recognizes that the majority of the campus will not eat meat on fast days during Lent for ob­vious religious reasons. Half of those people are usually grateful for this. They are the ones that fully intend to abstain, but occasionally forget. Secondly, the people who complain for "democratic reasons" about not being given a choice, are usually not going to give anything up in the first place. 
Lent is an excellent time to become closer to Christ. Spiritually, it's even better than Christmas. With all of the hype and con­sumerism, people are too distracted to find 


Mark Weimholt 
Graphic Arts Manager 

Christ at Christmas. Lent comes without last­minute shopping or finals, during the slow part of winter, when there is time for reflection. 
We owe it to ourselves to take time out for prayer. If you don't know how to pray, take the time to find out how. We should be careful in choosing what to give up for Lent. The real motive behind giving up alcohol might be a slowly developing beer gut. Cutting out sweets will reduce the dentist bill, but will it bring you closer to God? 
I have a dozen things I could give up to make me a better person. Which of these will strengthen my spirituality? Perhaps we should give up not doing certain things. I could give up not volunteering my time to service organ­izations, or give up not praying. I need to choose a commitment that will provide more than a personal gain. 
Christ is easiest found in others. By sacrific­ing some of my time, I might find Christ through volunteer work or joining a scripture group. It will bring me to a better understanding of my faith during a season that encourages reflec­tion. Besides, I can always give up procrastina­tion next year. 

Tonight the Sophomore Literary Festival Presents: Carolyn Forche 
Winner of the Lamont Poetry Selection 
Award in 1981 and human rights investigator 


Deaign EditOT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Kathy Huston ·Accent Copy EditoT ........ Mike Naughton Deaign Auistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andy Fenoglio Accent Layout.............. Melinda Murphy Type1etter ................ Becky Gunderman Typist ................................ Esther Ivory ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor .................. Susan Coene New• Editor .................. Chris Bednarski SMC Day EditoT ..... Theresa Harrington Copy EditOT ........................ Bud Luepke Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Sportl Copy E ditoT............. Marty Burns Sports Wednesday Editor,.... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy EditOT ........... Bob White SpoTts Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout .......... Kathleen Moran Photographer................... Suzanne Poch 
Tile Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tbe Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblerver is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
' 
·. 

---------___,.........­
8:00pm Ubrary Auditorium 

r------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 3 

Security Beat Negotiators continue missile talks 
Sunday 12:10 p.m.-Three male white subjects were ejected from Grace Hall as they attempted to distribute adver­tising pamphlets throughout the dormitory. 
Monday 2 p.m. -A female student reported that a man in­decently exposed himself out­side the Memorial Library. The victim was sitting in the first floor of the library. Upon hearing a knock on the window, she observed the man with his pants open. This report is similar to numerous others oc­curring over the past two years. It appears that the suspect may have a vehicle in the immediate area, as he has been seen fleeing east from the library toward the Juniper Road parking lots. The suspect is described as a white man, about 30 years old, sandy blonde or brown hair with a receding hairline, possibly some facial hair, a round face and stocky build. Security is as­king anyone with information 
about the suspect to call the of­
fice at 239-5555. 
2:25 p.m. -Security received a report of a hit-and-run accident in the Memorial Library Circle. The victim's vehicle received approximately $200 in damage. 
Tuesday 12:32 a.m. ­Security investigated the break­in of a vehicle parked on Green Field. Although the car was locked, a vent window was bro­ken to gain entry. An AMFM stereo cassette radio was removed forcibly, causing damage to the dash area. A screwdriver was found in the ve­hicle and is believed to have been used by the suspect or suspects. The damage and loss were estimated at $165. 
9:25a.m. -A Keenan Hall res­ident reported the loss of his wallet from his jacket pocket while he was attending the Notre Dame-Brooklyn basket­ball game the night before. 

Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network 
special guests 

orgia Satellites aturday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. 
All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A. C. C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone VISAtMC call (219)239-7460 
Associated Press 
GENEVA -U.S. and Soviet teams continued talks on medium-range nuclear mis­siles and President Reagan said the Americans would pres­ent new proposals Wednesday, when this round of talks originally had been scheduled to end. 
Maynard Glitman and Lem Masterkov led the U.S. and So­viet negotiators in Tuesday's meeting. Soviet spokesman Al­exander Monakhov said they talked for about 90 minutes at the Soviet Mission, but he gave no details. 
Max Kampelman and Yuli Vorontsov, chiefs of the two delegations, had a luncheon meeting Tuesday to discuss procedure. 
During an appearance in the White House briefing room in Washington, Reagan said: "I welcome the statement by So­viet Secretary-General Gor­bachev on Saturday that the So­viet Union will no longer insist tion in INF (Intermediate Nu­clear Force) to agreements in other negotiations." 
Mikhail Gorbachev, the So­viet leader, proposed that the superpowers reach an agree­ment apart from other arms negotiations on eliminating medium-range missiles from Europe in five years. 
Reagan said he would bring 
U.S. negotiators home for con­sultations at the end of this week and, "following these dicussions in Washington I will send a team back to Geneva to take up once again the detailed negotiations for an INF reduc­tion agreement." 
He said he had told the Amer­ican team to begin presenting the U.S. proposals Wednesday and added: "I hope that the So­viet Union will then proceed with us to serious discussion of details which are essential to translate areas of agreement in principle to a concrete agree­ment." 
Among issues to be resolved, he said, "none is more impor­
on linking agreement on reduc-tant than verification. We will
*..••••••••.•....••....•....•.•••* 
lt lt*  Saint Mary's College Dept. of Communications and Theatre  lt lt* 
presents  
lt-NDISMC Production  lt  
~  "To Dance!"  *  
ltMarch 4,5,6, 7 at 8:00 pm  ~  
*March 8 at 3:00 pm  O'Laughlin Auditorium  ""­ 
""­ Ticket Info 284-4626  Jlllf'"  

Jlllf'"¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥lt 

presents 


Senior Send-off 
Thursday, March 5 5-7 nm 
(Before tlte game) 
Alumni Senior Club FREE FOOD 
Do you know where you're going? 
~ 
-""" I \ 
' I 
~ 
"'..... / 
, ··~,, 
I 


continue to insist that any 
agreement will be effectively 
verifiable." 
U.S.-Soviet nuclear arms 

negotiations in Geneva are in 
three areas: medium-range 
missles; long-range, or strate­
gic weapons; and the fields of 
defense and space. 
Gorbachev's offer reversed 

the Soviet position, taken after 
his Iceland summit with 
Reagan last October, that 
agreement on medium-range 
nuclear forces must be tied to 
the U.S. strategic Defense Ini­
tiative. 
The space-based defense 

project, commonly called 
"Star Wars," has been a major 
sticking point since the Geneva 
talks began two years ago. 
Moscow has insisted the United 
States curtail research, but 
Washington refuses to accept 
limits. 
In the latest Soviet attack on 

Star Wars, a speech delivered 
Tuesday by the chief Soviet del­
egate to the 40-nation Geneva 
Conference on Disarmament, 
Yuri Nazar kin said: 
"whatever its 'defensive' 
labels, (it) is designed to alter 
the balance of forces to the ad­
vantage of the United States." 
He reaffirmed the new Soviet 

position that a deal on medium­
range missiles no longer is con­
ditional on agreement about 
Star Wars. 
Pravda, the Soviet Commu­nist Party newspaper, quoted Gorbachev on Tuesday as call­ing a medium-range weapons agreement a "tremendous" step toward others on arms re­duction and regional conflicts. 
His proposal would affect the 316 U.S. pershing 2 and cruise missiles deployed in Western Europe and Soviet SS-20s. Western officials estimate 441 SS-20s are deployed in the So­viet Union. 
Gen. Sergei Akhromeyev, the Soviet army chief of staff, said Monday that 243 were aimed at Europe. The rest presumably are in Asia. 
Under the Gorbachev pro­posal, each nation could retain 100 warheads on its own terri­tory. The Soviet missiles would be deployed in Asia. 
Tuxedo Rental Senior Formal Pierre Cardin, Bill Blass, and more..... Black Classic ...$35.00 Pay no more than $50.00 Century Fonnelwear 1822 Mlshewelul Ave 287-5938  
Telenlllfketlng 18m I ............. Holn: 11i1o1*r .... T~ lpln to 1Gplll, ....11... to?plltGood..,. ..... to ........... poellloM. lmmtdller ........ MANPOWBR T....,., ._, lpecltlltt 320 w. Ltltlle 234-0117  


--~ --~---------~---' 
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 4 
First lady is pictured as a 'dragon' 

Dancin' 
continued/rom page 1 
They specialize in dance routines to popular tunes. 
After being informed of the board's decision, the Dancin' Irish immediately appealed to Joyce. In response to the ap­peal, University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh ap­pointed the eight-member committee, chaired by Rocca and Director of Residence Life Ann Firth, to reconsider the decision to disband the group. 

Dancin' Irish members said the faculty board's decision surprised them. "I'm quite shocked," said Dancin' Irish co-captain Patricia Perez. 
"I don't think the decision was extremely thought out. I think it was something that came up and was discussed .. . without looking at who we are or what we do as a squad," Perez said. 
Novak said the Dancin' Irish should be allowed to continue to perform because of a high level of student support. More than 100 students signed up to try out for the group at last fall's activities night, she said. 
The Dancin' Irish are advised by Roger Valdiserri, associate director of athletics and sports information, and operate as a club under the di­rection of the Office of Student Activities. 


Webster 
continued/rom page 1 
Oakland, Calif. He worked in that office with Edwin Meese, now Reagan's attorney gen­eral. 
Other sources said some con­sideration was being given for the FBI post to John Simpson, head of the U.S. Secret Service. 
At that time, associates of Webster said he would be very interested in taking on the chal­lenge presented by running the CIA during the current inves­tigations of its role in the Iran­Contra affair, but that he did not want to push Casey out of the job. This was before Casey resigned. 

I 
aac 

The American Express• Card can get you virtually everything from a leather jacket to a leather-bound classic. Whether vou are bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about anything you'll want. 
How to get the Card before graduation. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. You can qualify even before you graduate with our special student offers. For details, look for applications on campus. Or just calll-800-THE-CARD. and ask for a student application. -The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without IC 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Nancy Reagan, victorious in her campaign to drive Donald Regan from the White House, suddenly is being pictured as everything from "a dragon" to a "power-hungry first lady" who has made her hus­band appear wimpish and helpless. 
But Mrs. Reagan's sup­porters say it's nonsense to assert -as one published report did this week -that the first lady has become so pow­erful she plans to use the remainder of President Reagan's term to press for an arms control agreement with the Soviet Union. 
"That's silly," Mrs. Reagan's press secretary, Elaine Crispen, said Tuesday. "Sure, she's interested in arms control, she's interested in peace. But she's interested in arms control only to the point that it affects his (Reagan's) planning and his policy and what he's doing with it." 
Mrs. Reagan's former press secretary, Sheila Tate, agreed. 
"She gets involved with people, yes. Policy, no," said Mrs. Tate, a long-time aide now working in public rela­tions. 
Few people question that Mrs. Reagan has great influ­ence over her husband or that she acts out of an intense con­cern about his health and his image. 
She has often commented that ''all my little antennas go up" when she believes some­one is attempting to take ad­vantage of her husband and that she tries to stop it "by telling him or telling someone else." 
And she has not been reticent in recent weeks while the president, out of sight recuperating from prostate surgery, has been battered by the Iran-Contra controversy. 
Many who know the couple might argue over how per­vasive Mrs. Reagan's influ­ence is. But rare is the White House official or adviser who is willing to have any com­ments about her attached to his or her name. 
Commenting only on condi­tion they not be named, sources had said for weeks she was leading a movement to dump Regan. 
"She's making it hap­pen,"said one Republican source prior to the chief of staff's departure last week. "Itlooks pretty obvious, she's going to get rid of him, one way or another," said a senior White House official. 
Former Sen. Howard Baker, Reagan's new chief of staff, showed during his first meeting with the White House press corps on Monday just how delicate the subject is, though he treated it with humor. 
Queried about a comment he had made previously of Mrs. Reagan that "when she gets her hackles up, she can be a dragon," the Tennessee politican replied by praising her as "a distinguished citi­zen" and "a great lady." 
The Observer 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
meeting March 12 at 6:30p.m. 
in the Center for Social Con­
cerns. 
In other business, a member 
of the Notre Dame Martial Arts 
Society spoke to the hall presi­
dents about self-defense 
classes for women residents. 
The member said the classes 
deal with "basic self-defense 
techniques against attacks by 
a stronger opponent." The 
member annouced the classes, 
to be held Saturday in one and 
a half-hour sessions from 10 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m., are open to all interested male and female students. 
In other business, Ann Dur­ning spoke to the HPC about a Print and Sound Collectors Contest sponsored by the Friends of the Library at Notre Dame. "No other school seems to have a music contest," Dur­ning said. She said prizes of 50, 25 and 10 dollars will be awarded to the best essays on the origin and development of individual collections of books, magazines, newspapers, records, tapes or compact dis­cs. 
The HPC also heard from Paul Giorgianni, who asked the hall presidents to consider ad­vertising in the program of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
St. Edward's Hall President Andy Barlow announced the St. Edward's Hall's production "Love, Sex and the I.R.S." will be held next Tuesday at 8 p.m. "We're pushing it as a study break," Barlow said. "It's a good way to spend two hours in the company of good friends watching a very funny play," he said. 
The Observer 

The news department is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Senior Staff Reporter 
Questions should be directed to Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at the Observer office (239-5303). Resumes and one-page personal statements are due by Tuesday, March 10 at 7 p.m. 


f---------------,
ATTENTION STUDENTS  1  
1  Shakey' s Special Delivery  1  
1  Introductory Offer  I  

I Medium Homestyle Pan Pizza 1 Topping
I $7.75 I or 1 Large Homestyle Pan Pizza I 1 Topping 
I ~~ 


Worlb's grrulrsl piZZa.  
Delivery Houra: 5-10:30 Sun.-Thura. I 5-12:00 Fri.-S•t. 277 29• 1 0 L----------~---­ I J  

,P-!!!!!!!!~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ ~ 
"• 
Celebrate the last days of Mardi Gras! 

Wed: Bourbon & Coke 
Thurs: Miller "MDA" Night 
Bring your suitcase packea for Spring Break. Prizes for Most Creative. 

1 
I 
I 
I Ppi..~~t'R 1 
I 
Wednesday, March 4, 1987 -page 5 

Lee Min-woo, president of the major opposition New Korea Democratic Party (right), and Choi Hyon-woo, vice president of the party, wear AP photo crossed masks in mourning for a dissident stu­dent who died under police torture. The proces­sion was stopped by riot police. Story below. 
50,000 police fight riots in S.Korea 
truncheons to fend offAssociated Press demonstrators. 
SEOUL, South Korea -Tuesday's "Grand Peace Demonstrators fought for Marches for Anti-Torture and hours against nearly 50,000 riot Democratization" were called police in hit-and-run clashes by the main opposition New Tuesday on the streets of Seoul Korea Democratic Party and during a day of remembrance 47 dissident and church groups for a student who died during to mark the 49th day after the police torture. death of Park Chong-chul, 21. 
Violent confrontations also Park, a dissident student were reported in six other from Seoul National Univer­cities. Police said 20 people sity, died Jan. 14 while being were hurt in all, two seriously, questioned by police using and 395 were detained. water torture. 
At least four opposition law­A 49th-day rite is a Buddhist makers were injured, one practice to mark the entry of seriously, in leading protesters the deceased person's soul into against police, who fired tear another world. gas and used shields and National Police Director Lee 
Cfh.c. c4~h 6 Ldtc.u cEtud.c.nt ci/J1.1~D~!J Council 
pu.1c.nh 

MEET YOUR MAJOR 
DATE DEPARTMENT LOCATION TIME 
Wednesday March 4 
4:15-5:15 English Lib. Lounge 
4:30-5:30 Anthropology 210 O'Shag 
6:00-7:00 CAPP 210 O'Shag 
6:00-7:00 ALPP 104 O'Shag 
7:00-8:00 ALPA 104 O'Shag 
E.Jnyonc. G. Wc.fcomc. to attc.fld! 
Yong-chang said 20 people were put under house arrest. But Dong-A Ilbo, the nation's biggest independent national daily newspaper, and Yonhap News Agency said at least 72 people, including top dissident leaders Kim Young-sam and Kim Dae-jung, were confined to their homes. 
Lee said 123 students were 

among those detained. He said 
171 people were held in Seoul 
and 25 in Pusan, the nation's 
second largest city, 205 miles 
southeast of the capital. Other 
arrests were made in Taegu, 
Kwangju and Taejon. 
Demonstrations also were reported in Chonju, 120 miles south of Seoul, and Chongju, 70 miles south-southeast of the capital. 
Despite the violence, police were largely in control of Tues­day's street actions, through which critics of the govern­ment sought to point up their demands involving greater democracy and human rights in South Korea. 
The number of marchers ob­viously fell short of organizers' expections. Many students chose to hold their own rallies on campus. 
The Korean Constitution limits a president to seven years in office. Chun, a former general, has said several times he will step down in 1988 when his time is up. 
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO GET INVOLVED! 
Ideas and Issues Commissioner: plans events : Dr. Jerry Falwell Russia Ambassador Shevchenko national speakers 
Cultural Arts Commissioner plans: Theatre trips: Pippin Soph. Literary Festival Collegiate Jazz Festival and more! 
Pick up application at 2nd fl. LaFortune 


-~---~-------~~~~----------~-­
The Observer 

Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 6 



llllliiJ
I i 

Steve Dean of Carol, Ill. and a few of his friends were clowning  a concert by the Neville Brot­ 
around in New Orleans for Tuesday's Mardi Gras celebrations.  hers.  
Story at right.  This year's Lundi Gras,  a  

Gunman killed after taking lawyer hostage 
Associated Press 

PASO Robles, Calif.-A man and woman armed with hand­guns took a lawyer hostage at a courthouse Monday and led him to the parking lot where gunfire erupted, leaving the gunman dead and three people wounded, authorities said. 
The couple was apparently upset about an unfavorable ruling in the court of Judge Donald Umhofer, said Sgt. Greg Slane of the San Luis Obispo County Sheriff's De­partment. 
The lawyer, who was shot in the stomach, was identified as Fred Metzger of,Atascadero. Sheriff's Sgt. Gary Gray was shot in the wrist, officials said. 
The dead gunman and in­jured woman were not identi­fied. Conditions of the wounded were not immediately known. 
The shooting e111pted in the parking lot outside the court building in this community of about 10,000 people 175 miles northwest of Los Angeles. 
New Orleans parties with Mardi Gras gala 
Associated Press 
NEW Orleans -Mardi Gras revelers filled the French Quarter on Monday and police braced for the all-night party that climaxes Fat Tuesday, the day before the beginning of Lent. 
Meanwhile, business people rejoiced at the influx of tourist dollars in a city still reeling from hard times in the oil in­dustry. 
''As far as the tourist dollars, 
we sure need them,' said . Maureen Detweiler, head of l Mayor Sidney Barthelemy's 
Mardi Gras Task Force. 
"I know that the hotels are almost 100 percent filled. And that hasn't happened in years," she said. 
The tourists started showing up Friday, flooding the streets to watch elaborate parades 
" Saturday and Sunday. More than 1 million people were ex­pected to cram the French Quarter on Tuesday. 
A coast Guard cutter, the big excursion riverboat President and a flotilla of smaller tug­boats escorted carnival king Rex on the Mississippi to the riverfront for a welcoming cer­.....,.,.._..~----~ emony. That was followed by a AP photo fireworks show, a parade and 
"I saw the man and woman arguing with the attorney. They were upset with the court system. They were upset with the judge and the police," said Fred Strong, editor of the Country News, who witnessed the shootout. 
Metzger, standing between his captors, tried to reason with 

"""' 

SENOR KELLY'S 
119 NORTH MICHIGAN S.B.'s 1 IRISH-MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
Wednesdays -MUG of BEER 75 cents 
The bar
free munchies! 
234­
10% off aU dinners with NIYSMC ls open 
LD. 5389 
'til l2am 
them before the shooting started, Strong said. 
"They were trying to edge him over to a motorhome about 75 feet away," Strong said. "He resisted and he attempted to deflect the pistol (held by the man). 
"As soon as the first shots rang out, police opened up with a crossfire," Strong said. 

tradition abandoned without explanation in 1917 and revived this year to lure tourists, fell on the 288th anniversary of the explorer Iberville's arrival in 1699 to claim New Orleans for France. 
The School of Design on Mon­day disclosed the closely guarded identity of Rex, a Mardi Gras eve tradition. This year's monarch of merriment is William Young, a 71-year-old lawyer and civic leader whose father was Rex in 1952 and whose daughter was queen of Carnival in 1970. 
Young's queen this year is Adair Draughn Freeman, a teen-age debutante who at-
The Observer Is always looking for talent. If you have any, come to our offices and start working on your newspaper. 
The Observer 
The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Business Page Editor Head Driver 
Questions should be directed to Brian Murray at the Observer office (239-5303). Applications are due by Monday, March 9. 

'fiil~~-l1i 11-111 ~ ~MJ 
j 
~ 
~~ ~-thJ/uw, dlutu 1iJ 

n~ ~UJL.~ tn.s.,lfUII;\_ 

IMtJil 2 ........_ 
tends college in Switzerland. 
Police prepared for an onslaught of revelers by block­ing French Quarter streets to all but residential traffic and reinforcing their ranks with state troopers. 
Lt. Max Gagnard of the French Quarter police district said crowds had been uni­nhibited, but generally well be­haved. 
"We kind of overlook the minor type of infractions as far as dress goes," he said, adding that police have had to cover up a few partygoers "in a couple of important areas -up­per and lower." 

Spring Break Special 


'MN-~ 
sun tmnrg satn 
Booth 
JMS PLAZA 
$2.50 each visit 4609 GRAPE ·RD, 6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, IN 
Bed  Combo  
$5.00 each visit  3 Bed I 3 Booth  
6 visits for $27.00  $19.95  


277-7026 

SABpresen~...TOM DELOCA 
*Hypnotist *Comedian 
* Magician 
* 
1986 Campus Entertainer of the Year 

* 
Most requested act on college cam­puses 


Tix on sale TODAY at the Cellar: $2LEve!'t: S"und~y, ~arc~ 8, ~pm Washington Hall 



\1ie\V~_O_i_n_t__________~wedn~esday~,Mar~ch4,1~007-p~age7 
Social life requires the help of new administration 
P.O.BoxQ 

Quote of the day 
"Compliment what she does. Send her roses just because••. Take the time to open up your 
heart. romance."  That's  the  secret  of  
Quincy Jones  1981  

"One Hundred Ways" 
More minorities would enhance Saint Mary's 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the article that covered Dr. Pilgrims' speech, given on Tuesday, Feb. 24 at Saint Mary's. I have had the pleasure to hear Pilgrim speak on two previous occa­sions, and I strongly support the issue of integrating Saint Mary's. 
As I walked home from his lecture, I tried to understand what his words made me feel. I felt great sadness. But even more than sadness, I felt resentment--resentment toward a place that has been my "home away from home" for the past three years and that has denied me a valuable learning experience because of the lack of minorities. The world does not look like a Saint Mary's classroom; in fact, it is far from it. 
I have a few Black and Hispanic friends, and I wouldn't trade them for the world. Not only are they close friends, but through knowing them, I have learned things that I could never have learned from a textbook. Every student should have this opportunity to interact with minority students. How can you expect to go out into the real world and successfully deal with other people when the only people you've dealt with for the past four years have been middle to upper class whites? 
Something must be done. Pilgrim is only one man--he cannot bring about a change by himself. Saint Mary's ad­ministration has recently formed a committee called "Ad Hoc on Student Diversity" to try and deal with this minority problem. I think they believe 
that by forming this committee, they 
have done their part in solving the 
problem--wrong. Much more needs to 
be done! 
I am one of the five or so member on 
the committee. We need more support 
from both Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students because this problem 
extends onto both campuses. I urge all 
students who are interested to come to 
our meeting. We meet at every Wed­
nesday at 6 p.m. in the Regina lounge. 
Remember, strength lies in the num­
bers. The more students we have, the 
stronger we will become. Do your part 
to make Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
a much more colorful community--a 
community we can all be proud of. 
Susan Harsch McCandless Hall 
Junior parents extend thanks for weekend 
Dear Editor: 
A great big "Thank You" to Laurine Bink, Catherine Nonnenkamp and the legions of Notre Dame students, as well as administrative, faculty and service workers for the delightful "belated Valentine" delivered to juniors' par­ents. 
We junior parents were "petted and praised" in such lavish fashion, while wisked about from one beautifully planned and executed event to another, that we returned home in a daze with nothing but fond thoughts of Notre Dame and the wonderful, exceptionally brilliant child we had had the foresight to send to that "good place." 
The care, planning and expressed love evidenced by the tremendous ef­organizing the emotionally moving mass, the beautifully creative recep­tion dance, the elegant dinner, con­vivial dorm receptions and festive brunch, speaks volumes about the values held at Notre Dame. 

From the first "Welcome to Notre Dame" spoken by our son as we arrived Friday evening, to the wonderful Flan­ner Hall reception, to Sunday's fond farewells to newfound friends -stu­dents, parents, and faculty -the weekend took on the luminescence of a gemlike memory. 
What mother will forget to the image of a dance floor filled entirely with mother-son couples? Fathers, as well as mothers, basked in the warmth of Father Hesburgh's remarks on Notre Dame as " ... Shrine of Our Lady ... Her special place.. of peace and growth where children learn to cherish par­ents ... " 
We parents can appreciate trustee Andy McKenna's after-dinner remarks emphasizing "pride and privilege" in being part of the Notre Dame family. To know we have sent our sons and daughterss to continue their education in a place which supports and en­courages Christian family values is, as a parent, to experience some measure of peace, and with it a sense of pride and privilege. 
Our "Thanks" to all those who worked so very hard to make Junior Parents Weekend a heartwarming Valentine which will be treasured al­ways. 
Dan & Angela DeCarlo Downers Grove, Illinois 
(CI-IBJ< 'lOJR I.OCN.. USTlNGS FOR mNLS) 
As the academic year draws ever nearer to an end, I find it appropriate that the accolades for retiring Father Hesburgh begin in earnest. He has with­out question taken a university known for its prowess on the football field and has established it as one of the leading academic institutions in the country. Though I have disagreed with many of his political positions and found his repeated absences from campus some­what disconcerting, the results of Fa­ther Hesburgh's work over the years speak for themselves. I look forward to the continued advancement of the Uni­versity by the new administration of Fathers Malloy and Beauchamp. 
Michael Beaudine 
guest column 

A key element of such success would undoubtedly be an improvement in the social life of the student body, someth­ing which I personally saw deteriorate from 1981-1985. A huge step backward in this regard was the enactment of new alcohol-consumption guidelines in 1984. Of course, the new rules were not meant to harm social life--they were designed principally to ameliorate concerns over potential University liability for alcohol-related accidents--but only the sadly idealistic and simply dumb thought back then that the effects on the social environment would be anyth­ing other than seriously detrimental. 
And it appears the new policy did in fact spur such a decline in social life. Starting from the realistic, and thus necessary, premise that for most stu­dents social life an alcohol are inex­tricably intertwined (particularly at an Irish Catholic university), one can only expect that a major shift in alcohol policy will cause noticeable changes in student behavior. At Notre Dame, the dramatic cutback in on-campus drink­ing opportunities in social settings naturally led to increased drinking in bars and at parties off-campus. 
Strong-arm tactics of the hateful local authorities alone with general inconvenience--both necessarily en­dured when choosing the off-campus option--have ultimately resulted in lessened interaction between the sexes, something which is central to one's overall development as a total person during his or her college years. Thus, while the University effectively accom­plished its objective of largely preempt­ing future legal troubles, the student body has in turn suffered in the form of stunted social growth. 

The LaFortune Student Center renovations are certainly to be ap­plauded, but undue focus on them will only draw attention away from the real, major problem facing Notre Dame and its administratiors today: how is social life on campus to be enhance, if not completely revised, within the present dorm structure? 
No easy answers to this question present themselves. However, the dif­ficulty of the task should not pose a deterrent to thoughtful action. The new administration, once in place, should form a committee comprised of Uni­versity officials, faculty members, and 
------~---------­
----, 
student leaders. This committee should investigate means of working within the system (principally the alcohol policy) to achieve better social condi­tions, both by reviewing the different approaches to this general problem at other colleges and universities and by truly listening to student proposals (unlike past committees bent on secur­
ing one end). Should the committee de­""\ 
termine the system itself needs fine­
tuning, such modificaitons must be 
recommended and carried out. 
Of course, there are ways to ac­complish needed change other than by committee, but ultimately something must be done soon to improve Notre Dame's social environment before complacency and yes, ever-growing apathy, extinguish the once-high flames of discontent. 
Effect change soon, or the observa­tion that Notre Dame students are so­cially retarded will become a more common refrain across this country. 
Michael Beaudine is a 1985 graduate of Notre Dame. 

r---~ 
VieWP.Oint Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 8 
Conscience must be formed using moral precepts 
Editor's Note: The following is the first in a two-part series. 
In recent days since the Second Vatican, the notion of the Catholic Church in crisis has become ever more prevalent. Much confusion and distur­bance has arisen from the current denial of certain Christian dogmas and from dissent with regard to the divine institution and teaching authority of the Church. What has evolved (and stands in perfect conformity with modern process theology which rejects the traditional transcendency of God and salvific message of Christ) is a sub­
r­
stitution of a subjective situation ethics in place of an objective sense of morality, and in general, an overturn­ing of the relationship between secular 
r 
and religious values. 

r 
r Steve Hipp 
guest column 

r 
Recently, I had the unpleasant expe­
rience of sitting through a presentation by one of our professors of theology who, while speaking in the name of the Catholic Church, proceeded among other things to significantly contradict the real teaching of the Church. I refer to Regina Coli, whose topic for discus­sion was that of Church: what is it?... where is it today? ...where has it come from and where is it heading? ...and how would we like to see the Church in the future? As a proponent of secular, and apparently process, theology, Coli's lecture was an injustice to the many people who had come to learn more about the Catholic Church. 
The following representative quotes taken from her lecture capsulize to a large extent what Coli had to say: "As responsible Christians we should criti­cally question everything ...only those things contained in the Creed cannot be changed...customs, traditions, rules can all be changed, including synods and encyclicals which have all been changed in the past. ..we can't always use answers that worked in the past to deal with the situation today; we don't do it in physics ... we must change the face of the earth and the face of the Church...the role of the laity is not to respond to some structure above you...that old notion of sheep...as long as you faithfully follow your con­science you are being moral. Con­science grows out of experience...over a whole lifetime that we have a general sense of rightness or wrongness. If you're against something because the Church is, then you don't have an in­formed conscience; you do not know what you are talking about. ..we no longer think of sin this way anymore, in terms of venial and mortal. We are not saved by anything we do but only by Christ. If we are fundamentally ori­ented toward good, then we'll be saved...theology today grows out of the experience of the people. The the­ology we have is white, European and middle class...there are many theologies-not just one; look, we have four gospels that tell us different things about Christ." 
Though Coil's words have numerous anti-Catholic implications, what stands out most forcefully (and was indis­putably clear from the whole of her talk) is her rejection of the authority of the magisterium and her uneducated characterization conscience (by which she defends a consequentialist basis for reasoned moral decision making). Now the relationship between authority and conscience is of central importance to the Catholic, and its understanding is inseparable from the relationship be­tween conscience and truth. The mind of man is such that when it recognizes truth, it naturally adheres to it, and acknowledging its authority, accepts it. There is an epidemic attitude today which says that the mature man trusts only what he can verify for himself, and that to be guided by the authority of another marks one as immature and insecure. This of course is not neces­sarily true, and a real sign of im­maturity lies in the inability to distin­guish what sources of authority can be trusted and which cannot. A mature personality will accept the advice and word of another to the extent that the other is trustworthy, even in matters beyond his own ability to verify. The teaching authority of the Church with regard to faith and morals is trustworthy because it is divinely guaranteed. Those who would not agree with this divine guarantee will not regard the authority as trustworthy, but this is at the heart of the issue. As true Catholics we firmly believe that the Church is what it is precisely be­cause it is guided by the Holy Spirit, and through its divine institution the Church is first of all the mystical body of Christ. Anyone who, like Regina Coli, attempts to adequately describe the Church without any reference at all to the Holy Spirit and the notion of mysti­cal body has utterly confounded the issue. 
The suggestion that there is no real freedom in the Catholic Church because Catholics are forced to submit ("that old notion of sheep") to rules externally imposed is absurd. No one is forced to believe or to do anything in the Catholic Church; rather the system is a volun­tary one, and faith is a gift which we can freely choose to accept or to reject. Every man or woman is free to consent to what he or she regards as credible; hopefully all Catholics have experi­enced that freedom and have freely chosen to believe the teaching of the Church because they have considered the evidence and concluded that its teaching is divinely guided and thereby guaranteed to be true. We should ap­proach the Church not with reluctance but with gratitude. Far from restricting mankind's feedom, She facilitates it and aids us in the choice of personal conscience. It is in this sense that the Church is truly 'servant', by informing conscience, not forcing it, by providing vital information so as to remove doubt and uncertainty. 
But what about the situation of the Catholic whose conscience tells her one thing while the Church teaching calls her to another? Does this mean she is required to surrender her personal commitments and freedom, and to live with insincerity? Real conflicts like this happen less often than we might be led to believe, and most often the conflict derives from the individual's lack of true self-awareness, from a failure to grasp what it really means to be a Cath­olic, and a superficial grasp of freedom. If it actually is the case that the whole of one's conscience stands in solid op­position to the Church concerning a serious issue, then, in choosing to follow his personal convictions, he has funda-

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 

mentally altered his position as a Cath­olic. The inescapable result for such a person is the rendering untenable the teaching of the Catholic Church, vir­tually stripping it of its basic meaning, and through resolving this problem of conscience, the person has rejected the Church. The conclusion adhered to is that the teaching of the Church on the issue in question is not really upheld by Christ, hence the Catholic concept of Church is rejected, namely that it is the guaranteed teaching body, a magis­terium guided by God. Such a person rejects the meaning of Church, and though he may frequent the Sacra­ments and be involved with his parish, his heart has left his religion. If Christ is not present in the living teaching voice of the Church, there remains no guarantee of his presence in the Sacra­ments or even the Eucharist for that matter. And when a man contends that Christ does not uphold the Church's teaching on birth control, there is no reason to believe in the Church's teach­ing about abortion or divorce or premarital sex. Such a man abides by no true Christian criterion, but operates purely upon human opinion. 
With the growth of secular theology comes the demand that the Church be restructured according to the human principles of Rousseauian democracy. As supernatural revelation is denied, and Rousseauian liberalism rejects the eternal and natural law, what remains is the general will of the people formed by consensus as the new magisterial basis. If truth is really relative to the imminent evolving will of the people, there ceases to be any foundation for authority at all of any kind. Authority and obedience are artificial when truth is denied, and law and conformity are but pedagogues of slavery. One clear manifestation of the inroads made by process theology today is the growing acceptance of situation ethics. The "evolving all" ("change is one of the marvels...") replaces the notions of eternal and natural law, such that there can be no rightness or wrongness in keeping with the intrinsic natures of things ("as long as you faithfully follow your conscience ... We no longer think of sin in this way..."). Rather, the morally relevant choice is determined by the pragmatic results ("all the con­sequences.") obtainable from a given situation. Situation ethic's excessive regard for the desired effect is exclu­sive of the notion of intrinsic good in actions to be performed, and this is di­rectly opposed to a traditional objective ethics based on norms available to rea­son. Only an objective ethics belongs to a God-centered universe with intel­ligible order, like that of Christian tradition. The other ethic belongs to the man-centered tradition growing out of agnosticism and culminating in the sub­jectivity of Hegel. When Pope Paul defended the tradiitonal teachings of the Church concerning artificial birth control, he was defending the first tradition. It was the second tradition which was defended by those who have rejected Humanae Vitae. 
Perhaps one is entitled to adopt a po­sition contrary to that of the Church on the grounds of conscience; however, having made such a choice, one is not entitled to insist upon regarding one's new position as Catholic. Anyone who claims the right to be called Catholic while remaining totally subjective with respect to what it means to be Catholic completely fails to understand that being Catholic means to belong to a Body which, where fundamental prin­ciples are concerned, thinks and teaches with the mind of Christ. 
Where a sense of conflict between conscience and Church exists, what most likely obtains is a self-induced pseudo-collision, primarily resulting from superficial thinking, and a lack of self-awareness, of an understanding of one's proper values. The formation of conscience which Coli describes does not prescind from the lack of objective truth which is responsible for value dis­crepancy. Conscience, properly under­stood, is an inborn disposition of the mind to consider the general truths of moral conduct which become the prin­ciples of reasoning in the realm of moral decision making. Strictly speak­ing, conscience is the act of the practi­cal intellect deciding whether a partic­ular, propsed operation is good or bad, here and now. It is a conclusion reached by reason after having applied moral principles to a specific course of action. We cannot attempt to re!Juce con­science to an emotionally governed state, without stripping it of all author­ity. Conscience is not a matter of one's personal moral preference (as moral relativists claim). What does this mean for those who claim to act according to their best conscience yet violate a nat­ural law precept? 
Steve Hipp is a graduate student in phi­losophy. 

General Board 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
Founded November 3, 1988 




Accent 

On with the Dance! 
GINA CAMARENA features writer 

D
edication and hard work-· that is what I felt being emitted from the dancers on stage as I slipped into the auditorium during dance rehearsal on a late Friday eve­ning. Why would anyone want to spend five to six hours sweating and laboring over dance routines while most other students are out having fun? The answer is quite simple for the dancers--"lt's something we believe in," ex­plained Saint Mary's junior Clare VanHecke. 
They are rehearsing for one of the major dance productions that comprises "To Dance!" which is being presented by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theater. The production "is a portfolio of works (with the) culmination of hard work," said Saint Mary's dance professor lndi Dleckgrafe. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dancers will present a dazzling array of original works focusing on dance from the mid-20th cen­tury. "To Dance!" will run Wed­nesday through Saturday, March 4-7 at 8 p.m. and Sun­day, March 8 at .3 p.m. In O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Since last September the dancers have been preparing for this "eclectic evening" to demonstrate that dance is not simply a recreational activity. but instead a form of art. A total of ten pieces comprise the event including solos, duets and group performances. Dieckgrafe will perform two solos: in "Light in the Wilder­ness" Dieckgrafe pays homage to the Sisters of the Holy Cross during the Civil War period, and In "BackSpace" she focuses on the special element of the space behind the dan­cer. 
In addition, featured guest artist Gerald Otte will present his solo "Posterboard" and will also perform a duet with Dieck­grafe called "Acts Two." Otte Is a choreographer and the artis­tic director of the Otte Com­pany In New York City. With over 20 years of experience in 
5.3 countries Otte said he "choreographs out of need--the need to dance." 
Other performances include "Manners," a three-selection piece based on the etiquette which is performed by eight dancers to music by Benny Goodman; "Le Musee and Les Goyles" is a neo-classical duet with dancers Andrew Fena and Susan Koper; Notre Dame graduate student Laura Greeman will perform "Compromises;" "Strydes" con­tains abstract ideas and space­like costumes; and "On Wo­men" is a 20-mlnute work performed by I 2 female dan­cers. 
What makes this production a special event is that the dan­cers dedicate themselves to much time and effort without receiving sufficient credit. The problem is as simple as It is frustrating--there is no dance minor at Saint Mary's and fur­thermore no dance program at Notre Dame. "(Dance) doesn't fulfll any physical education or fine art requirements," ex­plained Otte. 
Dieckgrafe has been the only dance instructor until this se­mester when JoAnn Barkes was hired part-time to teach ballet. "We are so lucky to have a bal· let teacher now," said Dieck­grafe. Currently, four dance classes are offered at Saint Mary's: ballet. intermediate and advanced modern dancing and repertory performance. 
The limited number of classes is a result of the lim­ited amount of recognition given to a dance department. When Dieckgrafe began teach­ing at Saint Mary's she "had high expectations of establish­ing a dance department" primarily to make available a dance minor for students. Not having the support of the ad­ministration, Dleckgrafe said, "I have just been doing my work as a professor as best as I can with the level of my dancers." 
The only way in which a stu­dent can receive a dance minor is through self-design. For those who choose this option Dleckgrafe would be the ad­visor who would regulate the student's responsibilities and achievements. Dleckgrafe ex­plained that a self-design minor would require a total of 20 hours: eight hours for tech­nlque "to make sure the dancer reaches the advance level of proficiency" and I 2 hours of academics including method and material of dance, 20th century dance history, aes­thetics and a choreographed dance composition. 
Although this is one method to receive a dance minor it is still far from the conventional path toward a degree. Many of the dancers who spend count­less hours working on routines feel that the system is an un­justlce. Greeman said "the frustration" is that the one credit "doesn't fulfill anything-· Notre Dame really doesn't ac­knowledge the Importance of dance." For Greeman, dance is a way "to keep you sane and healthy." 
Kristen Tweedell, a Notre 
Dame student majoring In 
theater said "It would be great 
If Notre Dame got Involved." 
Similarly, Notre Dame student 
Andrea Reilly said that "Notre 
Dame should have its own 
dance studio." For Notre Dame 
students It Is clearly an "extra 
effort" to dance as they spend 
approximately one hour just 
commuting between the two 
campuses during rehearsals 
and class days. 
Dancing at Saint Mary's Is not 
only restricted to those with 
dance experience. The level of 
dancers ranges from no previ­
ous experience such as Saint 
Mary's junior Krls Lasher who 
"haphazardly became in­
volved," to dancers such as 
MaryCaren Ferrini who has 
eight years experience and Is 
working towards a self-design 
dance minor. 
With or without the establish­
ment of a dance minor the 
dancers will continue to dance 
and to commit themselves be­
cause "dance does mean 
something," said VanHecke·· 
especially to those who care. 
Otte said that the situation of 
dance education at the college 
Is "desperate." 
Dreyer summarized the situa­
tion in his comment: "''m not 
in judgment of the college, but 
there Is an apparent resistence 
in certain parts of the Univer­
sity and support in other parts­
-when the support Is universal 
then It will be successful." 

Wednesday, March 4, 1987 ·page! 
People watching in Paris 
S 
o you are a "people watcher." You like to stare at people on buses and try to perceive bits of their personalities. You spend half the time In class gazing around the room guessing who has a date for this weekend's SYR and who doesn't. Arriving at the dining hall around 5 pm., you have no qualms about hanging out until you are thrown out. After all, the dining hallS are a "people-watcher's heaven", as is a museum. 
In most museums, the art works are displayed on the 
Mary Berger 
C'est la Vie 
•

four perimeters of a room. Quite convlentiy, the architect also usually details that comfortable chairs with panoramic views be placed at the center of such a room. Most often, these lounges are the haven for weary feet or they are the perch of a true art lover absorbing the feast around him. As for me, however, my true love of people-watching is satiated here. 
As I write this column, I am located in front of a work by Gustave Caillebotte in one of the new Musee d'Orsay's rooms dedicated to impressioniam after I 870. This train station turned museum is the talk of Paris, and all of France. Recently renovated and opened to the public last December, the museum holds a vast collection of impres­sionist works and other treasures of the 19th century. Thus, it draws a large and varied crowd. 
At 2:40 pm on this dreary Saturday afternoon, there are quite a good number of people milling around. At last count there were approximtely thirty-five people of varied ages and descriptions in this room. 
A group of young Japanese girls just walked In and definitely merit a good glance.. The first to draw my attention is in a color scheme of cream and black and wearing a dashing hat to top off the look. Her eyes are wide as she looks around the room, a small smile perking out as her hand nervously reaches for the camera around her neck. Three of her companions follow her into the salon and it is the girl trailing behind who makes me smile. 
Noticing her Louis XIV style shoes with the silver buckles first, my eyes travel up her black and white ensemble to her shy face. Then, I see the ears. No, not her real ears but the two small buns she has swept her hair up Into on either side of her head, just above her ears. I really hate to think It but she looks like Mickey Mouse, or Minnie Mouse as the case may be. The girls glance around and move onto the works of Degas next door. 
On either side of Cailiebotte's large depletion of shirtless men working on a large, wooden floor in a dimly lit room, there is a door-like opening which serves as both exit and entry. It's great. I can watch someone walk Into the room, take one glance around and watch them decide if they are going to stay or spend their time elsewhere. Most people stop in front of me and look at this dark painting for awhile. It is large, the sole piece on this wall. They read the artist's name and the title at the lower left of the work, say something to each other, shrug, and go on. 
Another classic just walked ln. An older man, problably around 55 or 60, just passed in front with his "Betamovie" camera poised and ready for action. He fllmed a bit of Monet and now just did the trek to the painting I am facing. He is tall with gray, almost white, hair and has the relaxed air of one who is retired on a person truly enjoying his vacation. 
A red-headed (is it real?) woman to my left Is wearing a pair of pearl and gold earrings which I think are beautiful but which I don't think my neck is strong enough to support (three inches wide and reaching her shoulders). Another fashion note on the very thin woman in chunk­heeled boots and bright puple velour at the Pissaro piece. OK, the boots and a beret which is purple I can handle but velour? That was the how swatch when I was In flth grade! One find all kinds here In Paris. There are Burberry scarves, oxfords, pearls and headbands coming out of the woodwork. In the same way, all-black ensembles are just as popular. Put yourself together from head-to-toe perhaps with a dash of color, and you will definitely look European. 
A very amusing aspect of sitting here people-watching Is that I in turn am watched by them. With notebook and pen in hand scribbling away, just what am I doing? Curlouslty gets the best of people and as they walk by; they glance at the book and then my face. I look back and they look 
away but are unable to resist one more look. though. They take in all of me from my red hair and red pants to my ten-button purple shirt from the Gap and black boots. I smile and keep writing and they walk on, embarassed maybe. 
-
-
---------~--~~----­
-

Sports Briefs 

The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 10 
The Bengal Bouts semifinal matches get underway tonight at 7:30 at Stepan Center. Featured on tonight's card is the super-heavyweight match between Pernell "Big Train" Taylor and Anthony Johnson. A complete lis­ting of the semifinal matches is given in Sports Wednesday on page 11. -The Observer 
In women's IH basketball preliminary action last night, Breen-Phillips A defeated Lewis A, 41-35, to gain the third seed in the semifinals. Breen-Phillips A will face Farley A tonight at 6, while Lewis A will play Pasquerilla East at 7. Both games will be held in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 

The ACHA playoffs will be held at the ACC this weekend. Friday night Kent State faces Michigan­Dearborn at 6:30 and Notre Dame plays Lake Forest at 
9. The finals will be played Saturday. Because this is a league tournament, there will be a $1 admission charge for all students. -The Observer 
The junior class warm-up for Bookstore Basketball XVI continues this Sunday with the second round. Teams should check the the chart outside the Junior Class office for dates and times. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 12 
NCAA nabs Texas Tech 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Tex. Texas Tech's football program was put on probation for one year and penalized three scholar­ships for the 1988-89 season for violating recruiting rules, in­cluding cash offers to athletes, officials said Tuesday. 
The probation will begin im­mediately because university officials said they would not ap­peal. 
The Obsenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsernr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR HELPIII SPRING BREAK SAB APPLICATIONS YOUTH IN AISA --a moral dilemma BOOGER: FROM A HOLE IN YOUR BREAKI IF YOU HAVE ROOM FOR A TRAVEL PLANS CHANGED, NEED TO PANTS TO A HOLE IN YOUR EAR ..
NOTICES 

RIDER PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 2939. SELL $238 TICKET Deadline extended til Friday! Youth In Alea WHAT'S NEXT? SB TO LA, RETURNING SAN FRAN TO Plck·up your application TODAY 2nd Duke's Bislro HOWDY DOODY'S SB, DATES: 3113·322 Floor LaFortune Thursday night GOOD LUCK HIGH NOONEIII JUST TYPING AVAILABLE On US 33 One block north of the stateline WILL TAKE BEST OFFER I With special guests: Squash Puppies GIVE IT YOUR BESTI 
287-4082 is now accepting applications for part­CALL 4644 OR 4643 CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT MENDENHALL time waitresses, waiters and bartenders. Apply in person between 2 p.m. and 6 SPECIAL EVENTS TODD GERBER IS A SPOOK 
ADOPTION: We're a happily married p.m. Monday through Saturday. TODD GERBER IS A SPOOK JILL: couple (physlciar>jlsychologist) who TWO ROUND TRIP PLANE TICKETS MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT TODD GERBER IS A SPOOK Thanks lor a fun Friday night. deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd Need ride to Ohio State on March 6. Will OHARE-NEWARK lor the week of spring You looked so cute with your pail. be sensitive to a child's needs and can pay. Call Karen at 284-4393. lor many Chicago schools (320-329) IDEAS AND ISSUES Bullsaye. provide a warm loving home where a best offer-call Kathy 2722 Julie 'ABRA" Beyere-you may be the JACK child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Helpl Need Ride to I.U.-Bioom. for 3-6-~ MOVIES nicest girl I've ever metl Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect Will share cost. Dan x4332 
AT PLANE TIX FOR SALE 

(212) 724·7942. CULTURAL ARTS Jell Zawada Rick Rauter Tom Beatty·
SPRING BREAK OR GOING HOME TO Blonde. chharter members of Sorin's 2·North Late 
TUCSON,ARIZONA Red sweater.
Need Ride to Bon Jovi Concert at Uic

Wordprocassino-Typing SERVICES Nlte Brew Crew. Meets every morning
Pavillion in Chicago Leave 3115, Return 3-23 to O'Hara Anderson's 11:00 class. 
272·8827 alter 3am in 251 Sorin. We are now ac­
FOR $130 AT CHEAP Blue jeans. PLEASE CAU NOW JJ X3255 OR B-C lunch afterwards. 
Wed. Mar 5. Call Kurt or Frank 283·1427. 

BUSINESS AUDITOR cecpting applications lor accacptance 
into this prestigious organization. Join Typing PUBUCITY Now !II 
SEND MESS. TO 141 KEENAN Beau1ilull 
NEED RIDE TO ROCH.NY FOR BREAK Free Pickup and Delivery MATT 2576 

277·7406 NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY Dan Reynolds-two monthl bllbylll got Congretuletlone, JIM RILEYKeyboard Synthesizer lor sale In good 
you taech. Mau with the bull, you get 
From your "roommate" in 131condition $300 call 1306 

the hornalll TURTLE CREEK APTS RESERVA· Need riders to Columbia SC lor break. TIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED. Call 284·5058 alter 10pm. 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL ONE WAY DAN COUGHLIN WEARS BLUE UN·
TICKET TO LOS ANGELES OPENCLOSE TO CAMPUS FRNSHD. 

OFF-CAMPUS FORMALIIII TIM.. 
DERWEARTICKET GOOD THRU MAR 23 $89

STUDIOS 1 ,2,& 2 BR TWNHSES. 272· HELPI Ride Needed to West. NY 3113 AT KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB CALL MARGARET.
CALL TIM 272-2339

8124 $$$1 Call 2907 PLEASE! THURS., MARCH 5 8pm TO 3Mn GOD 
TIX ON SALE WED., M & THURS., H THE URGEI EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU $$ HELP ONE OF JERRY'S KIDSI I 4-epm LaFORTUNE LOBBY SAT. et CHIPS MRS. COKER, 233-7009. NEED A TIX FOR FRIDAY DEAD SHOW S1CK:OUPLE PARTYI PARTYI PARTYI SUN. et MITCHEU'S 
................................................................ IN CHICAGO, APRIL 10. CALL JIM TICKETS FREE FOODII 
wllh lp-12 NO COVERI X1143.$$$ MUSIC BY "PAR 3"11 THE LAW et
$$ HELP ONE OF JERRY'S KIDS. IHELPII
I LOST/FOUND I 

CHIPS Friday Night MIKEWHmON
NEED ONE TIX FOR FRIDAY DEAD

I NEED A RIDE TO MARYLAND FOR Want to express feelings of undying love? From probation to production in just two
SHOW IN CHICAGO, APRIL 10. CALL

SB. CAU MARK 1428 secretive lust? thoughtful friendship? short weeks. CONGRATSII Keep smilin', Lost: 2 rings, SMC Claaa ring and Ruby 
JIM X1143. 

spontaneous nlcenesa? it brightens the office. 
ring and one Selko watch, lady's two DRUIDS will rule the known universe. It
HELPI My parents moved to the northern What belter way than DAISY BOU·
a Luv, ME 
tone. Loetln the ACC field house on 222. wilderness-I need a ride MINNEAPOLIS SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS is only a maHer of time before thay arise 
QUET??? Extreme sentimental value. H found (or N. WI) lor Spring Break. Will share Wed. & Thurs. at lunch and dinner as 
NEED XTRA $$$ FOR BREAK?? OR· from the depth& of LaFortune and storm 
please call Dena at 284·5209. REWARD $, driving. PLEASE call Kristen -1287. OER AN EXTRA GRADUATION TICKET well as tha campus quads. Join them before d K Harold, Emily, Backstreet& and I say
FOR MY GREAT-GRANDMOTHER is too late.
Fri. at lunch ... look lor Farley's Friendly "Thanks" lor a wonderlul year. Love You, 
AND I'LL PAY ... PLEASE CALL KEVIN, Spring depends on us . . .
LOST: TAKEN FROM BRIDGET'S WED· 2-4 GIRLS NEED RIDE TO SC OR Daisy Salespeoplelll Delivery before Your Greco-Rornan Wrist wrestling
x2139 ... THANKSI 

NESDAY NIGHT· AN AQUA GREEN SKI DAYTONA AREA 4 BREAK £13471.3725 Spring Break partner!JACKET WITH GLASSES AND BAS. 
Ride n-d to Mid Mlchlgen Area KETBAU TICKETS INSIDE. ALSO NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS! 
(tri cdies, Flint, Lansing, or anywhere Sick of Ice-cream? Sick of Pizza? In ot­TAKEN WAS A GREY JACKET WITH A 
Will share expencas. anything I Please Ride offered lor two to No. Virgini~alls near) on Fri. March 6. harwords, sick of the same old snacks? 
MAROON AND NAVY STRIPE. 1.0., call 3887 or 3520. PERSONALS Check out· THE
Church. Leave 03113 return 0322. $50 Please call Sheila at 284·5181 us COUNTRY KEYS, AND BASKETBALL TICKETS roundtrip. Call Jim X2250 
HARVESTER-S We have trail mixes We 
WERE INSIDE THIS COAT. NAMES 

TAU GREEN CORPORATION have dried fruits and nuts We have yogurt WERE ON COLLARS OF THE COATS. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR,

National Lawn Care Company seeks de­JUNIORS there is a PRE·ST. PATRICKS covered items Check us ou1· Free
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE PLEASE CAU KEITH AT 283-1225 TO 

pendable, hardworking individuals lor lull DAY PARTY on Sat. March 7th at the K Samplu O.lly.. Located in Lafortune
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.

RETURN. INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
or part·time sales. Morning and evening of C on 31. Live band and D.J. Tickets Basement 
SAT. MARCH 7 
shifts are available. Must be able to com­on sale this week! Get your green outl 
LOST: Benrus quartz watch. Please call 7:30PM WASHINGTON HALL
municate with potential customers effec­NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK?

Jeannine at £2646 H found. FREE ADMISSION
tively. Sales experience helpful, but will TO BOB L.-ODE TO AN EGO (II)
Sell your teX1books at PANDORA'S DEAR MSP: CONGRATS FROM THE train the right person. Call 233-9700 I've never known anyone more naive than 
BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. OTHER "NUKED" EDITOR I All bitterness LOST: Gray Tweed Hat left In South 
during business hours -8 am to 9 pm. you appear to be, but it's become so
just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 aside--way to go Mark--best of luck neX1 Ask lor Kyle or Pierre. year ·TB evident by the things you've said to me.
Dining Hall (Laft,Lelt) Sunday night of POMPIDOU PARTY 
North Carolina Game I'd really like to get AU MOUUN ROUGE I'm glad your're glad I "haven't stayed
this hat back II you know where It Is or 1ST SOURCE BANK THURSDAY NIGHTI picked it up please bring d to campus NEED RIDE, LOUISVILLE AREA, Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­Jell Blumb home"-hnow why on earth would I? 
SPRING BRK. $$,PLEASE CALL NOW: Shouldn't I be with those I love most with 
Ing available lor all US atatea. WELCOME BACK 1133 The staff of The Observer my friends in the halls of Alumni? ForLost and Found or leave ~ at 11 09 Grace 
·Thanks Tonight please participate In the Ash wishes its former they are the ones that bring light to myWednaday Llturgy-Maaa ana Dlatrlbu·
NEED RIDE(RS) TO COLUMBUS, THANK YOU ST. JUDE. sports editor life they've taught me the true meaning
I LOST SOMETHING AT BRIDGET'S tlon ol Aehea-celebrated by Father
OHIO--LEAVE FRI RETURN SAT CALL a belated happy birthday ql caring, because it's not just a matter
TUESDAY (2-24) NIGHT James Burtchaell, C.S.C., In the Log
PAUL X4052 of going out-gil's laughing, loving, and
I loat 2 jackets. Ona waa lnalde the Chapel at 10:00 P.M.. Thla Ia lor the­
•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• sharing. P.S. L,P.D,e you dogs-have a
other. On the outalde waa a jean-jacket ology majors and all other members
•• Buy Now & Save •• nice day
HEATHER,FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT •• $90 RT Tix to Newark ••
with plaid lining. On the lnalde waa a ol the Notre Dame Community. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TODAY! MAN, SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684-288-0955 •• Leave 3112, Return 321 ••beige Field & Stream jacket. If found 
YOU SURE ARE GETTING OLD •• Call X3586 NOW ••
pleue call Mike x3402. Sandy 
Jell Zawada Rick Reuter Tom BeattyI still love you I 
AREN'T YOU? HOPE YOU HAVE A SU· 
Sorin's Late Night Brew Crew charter LOST: Thln,sllver ring alter DePaul 
2 BE~ 

PERB DAY! LOVE (THE INFAMOUS),BATH-NEWFURNISHEOCPTM8CY 
Was it as good lor you? members. The Crew meets every night game. Great sentimental valuel II found. Give me a ring. cold ones 
PANDA RENT OR SUMMER SUBLET CALL 
at 3:15am. Bring some and call Debbie at 1311. ·Chris 
stop by 251 Sorinlll
BILL 232-7416 Thank you St. Jude lor your help­
Thank you St. Jude lor your help­

HEY DUDES-LOOKING FOR 2 Thank you St. Jude lor your help-LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL DROP 
Life 11 serious but art 11 funIll EARRING SONMEWHERE BETWEEN POOR COLLEGE STUDENT 
ROOMATES TO SHARE NO AV APT 
FOR 87-88. PREFER PARTYERS. CALL 
FARLEY AND CUSHING ... GREAT SEN· To the guy who smashed Into the white GOOD LUCK
WANTED 

CHRISi>AUL 232·3629 KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS
TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL Dodge Colt Saturday evening in B 1 and South Bend Mad Dawg 
HEATHER £3878. left a note saying he couldn't alford to Chew him upll
STARTING NOWi CALL 272-4135. 

pay lor the damage: II honesty is worth Love, The Gang 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, ACHA PLAYOFF ACTIONI 
Did you tak&flndlltea~rrow my Bible? anything to you, please dial 1079.
yr.round.Europe. S.Amer.,Australia, IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR Yea, the day-glo orange one left in 

Asia. All fields. $900-2000 KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL The lrlah hockey team takes on Lake 
O'Shag or Cushing. 

K·Let's do Ill Thanks lor everything-$ Consider d yours, but could I PLEASE DAN LIZARRAGA
mo.Sightseeing.Free inlo.Write IJC, PO 272-4135. Forest Friday night at 9. The injuries are 
BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 gone, the players ara back, and the
have the pepers Inside back? They're I wish you lots of dry bread wdh candles 
•• 194 •• Foresters are going DOWNI Come out
important, really I PLEASE send or return on your birthday. Hope it's wonderlull L.A. BOUND FOR BREAK? 
SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE and support Irish hockey!
them to 404 P.W. Thanks. Need cheap air fare? 
PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK Let's Ill/ the stands--on BOTH sides of
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE· Ticket lor sale-$198 or best offer 
I STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE the rlnkl
TITION GRANTED. ride needed lor 2 to D.C. area lor break Call Steve 3589 HEADED TO 
Found: leathar jacket. Call 283-3507 and D.A.C. £2806
3 FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTERask lor Garrell. 

COUNTY, HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES 
Thank you St. Jude! PUMPKINHEAD: I thought pink was fun
Softball Tournament 
LOST: EEL·SKIN WALLETI Probably lost SPRING BREAK DAYTONA! until the thought of a Fergie bow in your
Sunday, March 8 in the engineering auditorium or at the contact 283·4003 BIG LOOONNGG HAIR was mentioned
PICK UP ROSTER IN CLASS OFFICE S.dlning hall on Sat., the 21st of WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU as an alternative to a cummerlbund. 
I NEED RIDES TOFROM MIDWAY AIR-BY 5:00 FRIDAY, MARCH 6. 
February. II found please contact John WERE TURNED ON? Ha!Hal L, a SMMM Eustermann at 1066. Please keep trying PORT TO DANCEI 
I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm

to get ahold of me. andt!r leave a mes­WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU 
on Fri. Mar. 13 and I need a ride back BUFFALO CLUB SPRING BREAK To Steve Dufour, You Wild Turkey, We'll 
sage w'phone £11 really need the wallet! WERE TURNED ON? 
to ND from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. BUSI CALL KIM 4329 OR JACKIE 31114 get you back.
SENIORS ·I need your extra graduation WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU

lcould leave the airport anytime alter 6:00 tickets!! Do you need eXIra cash lor BY NOON 35 TO SIGN UPII 
LOST: the phone no. of the girl named WERE TURNED ON? 
am. CALL PAUL £2287. Hi Prince Nu11 Remember: "A hug a
Senior Formal or Spring Break? Call me

Suzie (Susan) who possibly found John WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU day, .. ." From Princess Nutand we can talkll Tom 1251
Eustermann's WALLET! Please call me WERE TURNED ON? back! I've tried to contact you bu1 to no Good Luck tonight Kelly lgoel You are a 
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING DIFFER·

availl I need the wallet desperately!! call WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU starl Love your biggesl fan. KERR. EVEN THOUGH YOU DO
FOR SALE 
ENT FOR LUNCH??

283·1 066, or atop by room 203 Alumni WERE TURNED ON? Maureen BABBLE, WE STILL THINK YOU'RE Hall. You'll make my day. 
HOW 'BOUT SOMETHING MEXICAN? SWELLI LOVE, THE KNOTHEADS, -Come join us lor lunch at the AND OF
MORONS YAYHOOS THE 

ATTN: Notre Dame memorabilia collec­Center lor Social Concerns Need graduation tickets. Will sell my WORLD. 
tors. TOMORROW ..MARCH 5 roommate lor them. Call Mark at 2339 PLEASE BUY MY RT AIR·TIXISB TO
FOR RENT 

Original center jump circle from ACC 11:0().1:30 CHARLOTTE NC (NOT TOO FAR 
PAPPY· 

main arena basketball floor. Blue back­To benefrt:CILA SUMMER MEXICO Camp Aiello update-Remember you FROM HILTON HEAD 
Good luck this weekend! II you swim as FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND good as you look, you've got ~ made I -a
ground wdh gold ND in center. 219·287· SERVICE PROJECT need a collared shirt to get into Stude's SC}'L YNCHBURG VA 3113-231HELPI FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 fan
6392. Lounge. CALL JACKIE 3194 

March 4, 1987 The Observer , page 11 
Sports Wednesda)' 
ports Lists 
BASKETBALL TEAMS MOST OFTEN IN THE AP TOP TEN IN THE LAST TEN YEARS 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Bengal Bouts semifinals Men's lnterhall basketball champion­ships Women's lnterhall basketball semifinals 
Thursday Men's basketball vs. MIAMI (FLA.) Men's swimming at MIDWEST INVITA­TIONAL lnterhall hockey championship 
Friday Bengal Bouts finals Hockey at ACHA PLAYOFFS Men's swimming at MIDWEST INVITA­TIONAL Women's tennis at NOTRE DAME QUADRANGULAR 
Saturday Men's basketball at Dayton Indoor track at ICAAAA Championships 
Hockey at ACHA PLAYOFFS Women's basketball at Dayton Baseball at Indiana (2) Wrestling at NCAA Western Regionals Men's swimming at MIDWEST INVITA­TIONAL Men's tennis at Wisconsin Women's tennis at NOTRE DAME QUADRANGULAR 
Sunday Indoor track at ICAAAA Championships Baseball at Indiana Men's tennis at Gustavus Adolphus Wrestling at NCAA Western Regionals Women's lnterhall basketball champi­onship 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday No sports scheduled 
AP To 20 
Baaketball 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Nevada-Las Vagas (50) 30-1 1,244 2. North Carolina (13) 27-2 1,210 3. Purdue 23-3 1,118 4. Indiana 23-4 946 5. DePaul 25-2 945 6. Iowa 25-4 935 7. Georgetown 23-4 914 B. Temple 29-3 948 9. Alabema 23-4 799 10. Syracuse 24-5 654 11. Pittsburgh 23-6 582 12. Illinois 21-7 5n 13. Clemson 25-4 444 14. Duke 22-7 360 15. Texas Christian 23-5 338 16. New Orleans 25-3 275 17. Oklahoma 21-B 209 18. UCLA 21-6 120 19. Missouri 21-9 115 20. Notre Dame 19-7 104 
Others receiving votes: Florida 99, St. John's 73, Kansas 68, Navy 58, Texaa-EI Paso 58, Providence 32, Memphis State 23, Virginia 20, West Virginia 16, San Diego 11 ,Northeastern 6, Alabama-Birmingham4, Marshall4, Western Kentucky 4, Auburn 3, Geor­gia Tech 3, Tulsa 3, Florida State 2, Southwest Missouri State 2, Arkansas-Little Rock 1, Brigham Young 1, Kentucky 1, Pennsylvania 1. 
a..e~~.u 
The Top Twenty oollage besebell teams In the poll compiled by College Baseball magazine and ESPN , w"h first-place votes In parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-1 B-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Florida State 11-2-o 496 
2. Georgia Tech 9-o-o 493 
3. Texas 13-3-o 492 
4. Oklahoma State t-o-o 491 5. Loyola Marymount 14-4-D 489 6. Louisiana State 6-2-0 486 7. Southern Cal 14-4-0 485 
8. Michigan o-o-o 481 
9. Pepperdlne 11+2 479 10. UCLA 11-7-1 4n 11. Cal-Santa Barbara 9-7-1 473 
12. 
Maine o-o-o 471 

13. 
Indiana State o-o-o 469 14. Arizona 14-5-0 488 15. Stanford 12-8-0 468 


16. Oklahoma s-o-o 485 17. South Carolina 4-D-D 481 16. Baylor 5-0-0 458 19. Texas A&M 13-1-1 467 20. Fresno State 8-6-o 455 

fNDAVE~1 
~ Early Bird SpeciaJ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
~ Sign up before break and 
~ receive a 10% discount 
2 Call 234-6647 
~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
~·~~.q~·~ 
ns wimming 

Women's swimming results: Midwest Independent Championships 
EVENT 500-yard Freestyle 200-yard Individual Medley BOO-yard Freestyle Relay 200-yard Freestyle Relay 400-yard Individual Medley 100-yard Butterfly 1 00-yard Backstroke 200-yard Freestyle 400-yard Medley Relay 200-yard Backstroke 200-yard Butterfly 
400-yard Freestyle Relay 
EVENT 1 Meter Diving 
POS 3 8 2 5 2 4 8 6 6 6 6 7 3 
POS 8 SWIMMERS Amy Darlington Suzanne DeVine Quirk, Byrne, Darlington, DeVine Amberg, Browne, Acampora, Quirk Amy Darlington Suzanne DeVine Barbara Byrne Amy Darlington Byrne, DeVine, Darlington, Quirk Barbara Byrne Amy Darlington Suzanne DeVine Darlington, Quirk, Quinn, DeVine 

DIVER Georgia Bosseler 
TIME 5:06.72 2:14.81 7:54.93 1:42.45 4:38.24 
:59.50 1:03.49 1:57.46 4:11.04 2:17.51 2:12.47 2:13.31 3:38.77 
PTS 361.06 
lnterhall Basketball 
Men's Playoffs Results 
A League 
Loser's Bracket Sarin 51, Dillon 49 Sarin over Morrissey 
Championship Sarin 50, Stanford 45 
B League Winner's bracket Dillon 58, Sarin 44 
Loser's Bracket Grace 49, Howard 48 Off Campus 61, Keenan 53 Off Campus over Grace Off Campus over Sarin 
Men's Playoffs Schedule 
A League Championship Stanford vs. Sarin, tonight 
B League 
Championship Dillon vs. Off Campus, tonight Dillon vs. Off Campus, Sunday (if needed) 
Women's Playoffs Results Breen-Phillips A over Lyons Breen-Phillips A 41, Lewis A 35 
Semifinals Farley A vs. Breen-Phillips A, tonight Pasquerilla East vs. Lewis A, tonight 
Championship Winners of semifinals, March 8 
Midwest Marquette 74, Evansville 63 Western Kentucky 78, Dayton 72 
Atlantic 1 0 Conference 
Semflnsls Temple 84, St. Joseph's 68 West Virginia 80, Rutgers 58 
ECAC North Atlantic Conference 
• First Round Niagara 109, Vermont 90 Northeastern 85, New Hampshire 71 Siena 67, Canisius 65 Boston U. 76, Maine 57 
Southland Conference First Round Arkansas State 81, Northeast Louisiana 
60 

Lamar 87, North Texas State 82 
• 
• d •
: provi es a unique combination : of service, support and training 
:• 
will be at the 

Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, March 4 •• • and Thursday, March 5 • •• •• ••• Stop by to meet John Reid, the Director of Channel, or call ahead for an appmt
• 

Bengal Bouts 
Semifinal Matches 
Featherweight Bill Goodwine vs. Ernie Olivarrla Laurin Dodd vs. Michael McCann 
Jr. Lightweight Kevin Duggan vs. Bill Hession Jaime Bellalta vs. Eric Bender 
Lightweight Mike Noone vs. John Albertini Mark Anderson vs. Joe Cox 
Jr. Welterweight Tim Hartigan vs. Tom Hayman Bob Jagger vs. David Cane 
Welterweight Tom Newell vs. Steve Hillsman Dan Schneider vs. John Drew 
Super Welterweight Raymond Powers vs. Liam Healy Chris Walton vs. Jack Gleeson 
Jr. Middleweight Ted Gradel vs. Mark Gibbs Steven Riedl vs. Vance Becklund 
Mlddlwelght John Mundo vs. Keith Burget John Burelbach vs. Edgar Reilly 
Lt. Heavyweight Dan Gamache vs. Paul Reuvers Andrew Wood vs. Steve Freschi 
Crulserwelght Fred Ahlholm vs. Greg Rowe Bill Angrick vs. Brad Purcell 
Heavyweight John Uhll vs. Jim Ackerson Neil MacDonald vs. Rob Merkle 
Super Heavyweight Anthony Johnson vs. Pernell Taylor 
Irish Wrestling 
Final 11S pounda -Andy Radenbaugh 19-9-1 -Carl Hildlnger 1-4-o 
126 pounda -Dave Carlin 9-10-2 -Greg Fleming 1-4-1 
134 pounda -Jerry Durso 23-4-Q 
142 pounda -Pat Boyd 27-6-0 
150 pounda -Ron Wisniewski 18-12-0 
158 pounda -Mike Sheets 4-13-Q -Dave Carrigan 4-6-0 -Dean Bubolo 3-2-0 -Sean Dillon 1-2-o 
167 pounda -Chris Geneser 25-4-Q 
177 pounda -Dave Helmer 9-19-1 -Carl Loesch 0-2-o -Tom Ryan 4-10-Q 
190 pounda -Dan Mitchell 0-5-0 
HNvywelght -Mike Crounse 4-7-o 
lnterhall Hockey 
Gold Dlvlalon RNulta Pangborn 10, Fisher 1 
Blue Dlvlalon RNuha Flanner 5, Carroll/ Keenan 2 Grace 7, Cavanaugh I Howard 1 
S.mlftnala Off Campus 7, Morrissey 1 Grace 4, Pangborn 2 
Champlonahlp Grace vs. Off Campus, Thursday night at 10:30 

Wales Conference Adorno Division 
w L T GF GA Pto. Hartford 34 24 7 225 217 75 Montreal 30 26 9 217 203 69 Boston 31 28 5 239 214 67 Quebec 24 33 8 206 219 56 Buffalo 23 35 6 219 243 52 
Patrick Dlvlalon 
N.Y. 
Islanders 28 26 9 216 209 65 

N.Y. 
Rangers 27 29 8 250 250 62 Pittsburgh 24 30 11 242 232 59 New Jersey 24 33 6 219 282 54 


C.mpbetl Conference Smythe Dvlalon 
w L T GF GA Pta x-Edmonton 38 20 5 287 221 81 Calgary 37 26 2 252 234 76 Winnipeg 35 24 6 234 224 76 Los Angeles 25 31 7 253 258 57 Vancouver 20 38 8 217 262 48 
Norrla Dtvlalon Detroit 29 27 9 214 226 67 Minnesota 28 28 7 242 232 63 Chicago 25 29 10 234 248 60 St. Louis 24 28 12 217 238 60 Toronto 24 34 6 222 251 54 x-cllnched playoff berth 
Laat Nlght'a Reaulta Hartford 5, Detroit 3 Philadelphia 4, -Buffalo 2 Pittsburgh B, Quebec 1 Washington 3, New Jersey 2 St. Louis 4. Toronto 3 Boston at N.Y. Islanders, late Montreal at Calgary, late Minnesota at Los Angeles, late 
Tonight'• Game 
N.Y. Islanders at N.Y. Rangers 
College Basketball 
NCAA Tournament Bids The following schools have received automatic bids to the NCAA Tourna­ment by virtue of winning their confer­ence's post-season tournament: 
Sun Belt Conference Alabama-Birmingham 
Metro Atlantic Conference Fairfield 
Southern Conference Marshall 
Colonial Athletic Association Navy 
Ivy League Pennsylvania 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference Xavier (Ohio) 

The...Observer 
The Sports Department is now accepting applications tor the following position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Questions should be directed to Dennis Corrigan at the Observer office (239­5303). Resumes and one­page personal statement ore due by 5 p.m. Sunday . March8. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 12 
SorinBriefs 
The Heart Lights 5K run is set for tomorrow at continuedfrom page 10 3:30p.m. Prizes wilT be awarded in men's, women's and 
continuedfrom page 16 
dorm divisions, and t-shirts will be given to all finishers. 
Interhall wrestling deadline is March 9. Workouts will be held March 9 and 10 from 7-8:30 p.m., and a man­datory weigh-in will take place March 10 from 8:30-9:30 
p.m. The meet will be held March 11 and 13. -The Observer 
Intramural floor hockey deadline has been extended to March 11. Rosters and entry forms are due then. A captains' meeting will be held March 12. -The Observer 
Observer sports writers will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 at The Observer offices concerning spring sports assignments. If there are any problems con­tact Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303. -The Observer 
The OC lacrosse team will definitely hold practice a-today at 4:30 at Stepan field. -The Observer 

Advance entries are available at NVA. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice today and tomorrow this week at the Rockne pool from 4: 30 to 5:30p.m. All members are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 283-4502. -The Obser­ver 
The ND crew's men's novice team will practice today at 3:30. Meet at the main circle prepared to row. 
-The Observer 

Bookstore Basketball XVI late registration will be held tomorrow at the SAB office (second floor LaFor­tune) from 3 to 5 p.m. Any team that has not registered should do so then. There is a $5 fee per team. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 

Action in the 57th annual Bengal Bouts compll~te list of scheduled fights can be found resumes tonight at 7:30 at Stepan Center. A in Sports Wednesday on page 11. 
Report claims Blue failed drug tests last season 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Vida Blue, who abruptly retired a day before the start of spring training last month, tested pos­itive for cocaine three times last season while pitching for the San Francisco Giants, ac­cording to a published report. 
Interested in people? Would you like your degree to lay a 

foundation for understanding the world better... 
Meet Your Major Wednesday, March 4 
4:30 pm -5:30 pm 21 0 O'Shaughnessy 
~mrn~Dc!Jrn!J' {llllrn [III!~ DW~llllmi' mrnc!J ~mmn.n.ll~(£![1 ma m 
~~rn~ A~THROPOlOGY 
Are You Dedicated, Enthusiastic and Creative? 
Deadline Extended For Student Activities Board Commissioners 
Campus Entertainment Special Events Musical Entertainment Cultural Arts Movies 
Ideas and Issues Services Publicity Business Auditor 
Pick up your application from the Secretary on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Application due March 6. 
• 

game," said Martin. "We must be much more patient on of­fense. It might take more than two passes before we put up a shot tonight." 
Martin also feels his club will have to play both halves with the intensity with which it played the first half last night. 
"We'll have to limit their strong inside game," noted Martin. "They can shoot those outside jumpers from 20 feet, but we cannot give away any lay ups." 
So tonight Sorin will attempt to defend the title it earned a year ago while Stanford at­tempts to regain the form that enabled it to win nine consecu­tive games before last night. If the game is played at all like last night's battle, the fans on hand will be treated to quite a show. 
MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT 
Wednesday, March 4 6:30pm Hayes Healy Auditorium 
*Speakers from Proctor & Gamble and Career and Placement Services will present advice on career choice and hunting for jobs in management-related fields. 
*Sponsored by ND Management Club 
._____but the Lord looks into the heart." 's"''"'"''•1 --------' 
Wednesday. March 4th ASH WEDNESDAY UTUI!GY 5ropm Sacred Heart Orurch John Lahey, CSC. Preslden\ 
Music by the N.D. Folic 010ir 
Wednesday, Man:i. 4th-PllA YEll VIGIL 1'011 PEACE 
Friday, March 6th Sacred Heart. Lady Olopel 
All.,.. inlliled top;, the /Jnir.esity depMtmenl andrestcfencr! haiJs in silenlll'l/eclim and~krpur:¥! 
Friday, March bth PIAYI!R SI!RVICI! !2:15pm This servic8 WIH ronclvde the 10hour I'Nre lWi S~ M ! Gi'ilfiTI OSF, homilist 
LHNTHN REPLIICTJON SHRillS 
l'ersonal reffections on the UniW!rsity Comm101¥ Lentm theme. Alllectures heldIn the bldy Olapel W..m...doy.~: 1-1:11pm 
Wednesday, Man:h 11th Amy Zajai<Dwolci 'ff1 Ouis Nanni '88 
Wednesday, Man:h 25th CateOHare Alaistant Rector, Lyono HaD 
Wednesday. Apr111st James Burtdlaell, esc Protessor of Theology 
Wednesday. Apr1l 8th Bishop Thomas Gumbleton AUXIliary Bishop of Detrntt/ l'laident, Pax am.ti USA 
n-lay, Apr11141h CAMPUS PI!NANCII SIIRVICII 
tlllqlm Sacnod ~Clmrdl 
Andr6 ~esc,~ 
Musicby !he ND Polk Ollllr 




r-------------------------------------------------~~-----------------------­
The Observer 
NCAA nails So. Carolina program 
Terry Dozier of South Carolina throws his hands up in a game earlier this season. Yesterday, the NCAA placed South Carolina on two year's probation and banned the Gamecocks from post­season action for NCAA rules violations. Details appear at right. 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -South Carolina's basketball program was placed on two year's probation Tuesday for NCAA rules violations, the most serious being a "well­organized and well-executed scheme" in which players sold 
complimentary  tickets  to  
boosters.  
South  Carolina also  was  

banned from postseason action by the NCAA because of rule violations under former Coach Bill Foster from 1982 to 1985. 
Foster, who resigned after the 1985-86 season and was replaced by George Felton, is now coach at Northwestern. Foster didn't return telephone calls made to his office, but during the weekly Big Ten teleconference call, he said: "I've not heard anything. I can­not comment. I am on the road recruiting." 
University President James 
B. Holderman said the school 
The price of going down-/(hill at legendary Boyne Mountain just went downhill. 
per person, quad occupancy. 
Includes one night's lodging, your 
,,
next day's skiing and a compli­mentary breakfast. Offer good mid­week, Sunday through Thursday, any number of consecutive days. 
Get together with your roommate and friends and enjoy Boyne Mountain's 17 superbly groomed runs, 10 lifts, out­door heated swimming pool, Jacuzzi and lively entertainment. 
Call now for reservations and ask for our Spring Break Special. 
Bay!!@USR 
Boyne Mountain, Boyne Falls, MI 49713. 800-253-7072 or 616-549-2441. 

wouldn't appeal the NCAA's decision. 
At the end of the first year of probation, the school can ask the NCAA to rescind the second year's penalty, something Hol­derman said the university plans to do. 
"None of us like to get a report card which gives us some .. . suggestion of things we've done wrong," Holder­man said at a news conference at which the report was released. 
"But I think in all fairness, the report deals with us with equity and deals with a prob­lem with a great deal of fair­ness. That's why I've indicated we have no ... desire to appeal the matter. We'd like to put it behind us." 
Other violations outlined in the 8-page report from the NCAA Committee on Infrac­tions included: 
-the loan and lease of automobiles to several possible recruits and players. 
-transportation, meals and 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
lodging being provided for pos­sible recruits and players. 
But the committee said the "most distressing and serious" violation was the scheme set up and run by members of the coaching staff in which players sold their complimentary tick­ets at face value to boosters. A basketball ticket costs seven dollars. 
The players didn't "have contact with the ticket pur­chasers and received remuneration for their tickets directly from a member of the men's basketball coaching staff," the report said. 
"Ticket purchasers neither negotiated nor passed money directly to the student-athletes, but rather arrangements for the sale of the tickets were han­dled by members of the coach­ing staff," the report said. 
The report didn't identify the coaches, players or boosters who took part in the scheme, and the univertsity declined to release the names during the news conference. 
Irish join 'Big Four' schedule 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -The "Big-Four" basketball double­header involving Kentucky, Louisville, Indiana and Notre Dame is set for early Decem­ber next season, UK Athletic Director Cliff Hagan said. 
Kentucky will "most likely" 
play Indiana in one game of the 
inaugural doubleheader, 
Hagan said, with Louisville 
playing Notre Dame in the 
other. The participants will al­
ternate opponents in the follow­
ing two seasons. 
The Hoosier Dome in In­
dianapolis will be a permanent 
home to the doubleheader, 
Hagan said. 
In the years Kentucky plays 
either Louisville or Indiana in 
the "Big Four" event, the 
Wildcats would not play those 
teams in a regular-season 
game, Hagan said. But Ken­
tucky would play Indiana and 
Louisville in other seasons. 
A specific date in December 
1987 for the first doubleheader 
has not been set. 
Marquette to investigate fan incidents 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Marquette University officials say they will investigate a beer­throwing incident at last Satur­day's game with Notre Dame that led to a heated verbal ex­change between Irish coach Digger Phelps and Warrior coach Bob Dukiet. 
Marquette University is against having beer at home games, according to Raymonds. He said the deci­sion to allow beer in the arena was made by officials at the MECCA. Beer is not sold at Notre Dame's ACC or any arena in the Big Ten. 
Marquette Athletic Director 
Hank Raymonds said Phelps' 
reaction was triggered by emo· 
tion. 
-
.....------~ ~--·..,....---~---------~­
----·-~-~---. -~-~~~ .. ·~ ···~-----------·-.. ··-··· 
The Observer Wednesday, March 4, 1987 -page 14 
duties expertly this season as 
well. Against Marquette, she
Items Off-campus, Grace skate their way

set an Irish record with 17 as­
continuedfrom page 16 
sists. Lavetta Willis, informed DiS­Sandy Botham has returned 

into IH hockey championships 
tanislao that she was quitting to her consistent scoring and 
the team for personal reasons. Strike one. 
Later, junior forward Kathy Brommeland decided it was in her best interest to quit the team as well. Strike two. 
Finally, Julie Garske, a freshman who had been averaging 6.2 points per game, decided to transfer to her home state and play for Wisconsin and former Irish assistant coach, Mary Murphy. Strike three. 
But surprisingly, Notre Dame is not out. Even though the schedule overwhelmed the rapidly-smaller bunch early in the season, and Beth Mor­rison's injury added to their woes, the Irish refused to end the season as a doormat. 
There are plenty of reasons why. 
A major force has been the outstanding play of Heidi Bunek. The sophomore from Milwaukee, plagued by injur­ies during her freshman cam­paign, has been a force in the lane all season. 
Point guard Mary Gavin has performed the playmaking rebounding numbers of a year ago, and Diondra Toney has hit for double figures in the last five contests. 
But perhaps the biggest rea­son for Notre Dame's rise from the win-loss percentage graveyard has been the emer­gence of Annie Schwartz as an outside scoring threat. The freshman from Ann Arbor, Mich., has stepped into the starting lineup and opened up the inside for Bunek and Bot­ham to maneuver. 
These ingredients have been mixed together to produce five straight wins and have made the future -there are no seniors on the squad -look much brighter. 
Their current record is still only 11-15, they have no NCAA bid awaiting them next Sun­day, and DiStanislao most likely will not receive consid­eration for any post-season honors. But this team has come a long way, and DiStanislao has probably done as much, if not more, coaching than in either of her previous award-winning seasons. 
By Orlando Rubiano Sports Writer 
The Crime began its assault on the Manor last night at the ACC, and were unrelenting throughout in posting a 7-1 win in Interhall hockey playoff ac­tion. 
Off-Campus will play defend­ing champion Grace, who held off Pangborn in the second game, 4-2, in the finals Thursday night for the Inter­hall hockey crown. 
In the evening's first game, Off-Campus grabbed a 3-0 lead in the first-half and was never seriously threatened after­wards. Morrissey captain, Ted Gradel, acknowledged that his club was beaten by the superior team. 
"They kept us off balance primarily due to their good puck movement, and their defense was able to keep our guys out of their zone," said Gradel. 
In the first half, Kurt Peter­son started the Crime's goal spree. He stole the puck from a Morrissey defender and found an opening in the far side of the goal for a 1-0 Crime lead. The second goal was a work of art, as Mike Breslin took the puck coast-to-coast and in the process left the Manorites mys­tified as he skated by them one by one. Bobby Newman closed out the first-period scoring as he slid the puck past a fallen defender and goalie just in front of goal. 

The second half was much like the first, as Morrissey was under constant pressure. Its lone bright spot came from Chuck Curley, who fired a blis­tering shot from outside the blue line that caught 0-C's Phil Coghlan napping. Off Campus captain Mike Breslin, however, was pleased with goalie's per­formance. 
"Phil played well in the nets tonight, and he made tough saves when needed," replied Breslin. 
Mter Curley's goal, the Crime put the nails to the Manor coffin. Lance Williams got 0-C's fourth goal after re­ceiving the puck in front of goal, where he faked the goalie right and easily scored to the left side. Rich Kennedy got number five after beating two defenders to a loose puck at the blue line and backhanded the puck past the goaltender. Hugh Hart made the score 6-1 by taking a rebound shot from in front of goal and putting it in. 
In the late game, Grace jumped to a 3-0 lead early in the first half, but Pangborn came back with two quick goals to make the score 3-2 at the half. 
Grace advances to the finals with a 6-1 record, while Pangborn finishes their season at 4-1-2. 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban Setting just 10 minutes from campus. 
You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Lane Apartments. 
beautiful setting is ·scent of the aid Isle. Maple provides professors 
oyees, graduate 
.., • ., and retreat from campus. 

In addition we offer you a special discount. 
apartments being through Spring '87 

~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 



*call for details about your discount 
177-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
Information and materials for the May 1987 Commencement Exercises will be available in the Registrar's Office (215 Admin. Bldg.) from 8:30 am to 4:oopm, March 4 through March 13. At that time you will be asked to proofread the way your name and hometown will appear in the commencement program and the way your name will appear on your diploma. 
If you intend to participate in the Commencement Ceremony, complete the Com­mencement Ticket Request Form (see example below) and bring it with you when you come to the Registrar's Office to pick up your commencement materials. The form must be turned in no later than March 13, 1987 or you will not be guaranteed tickets and you will not be included in the ticket lottery should there be one. 
Ten (10) commencement announcements will be available for you to pick up begin­ning March 4. Extra announcements will be available after March 13 at a cost of 10 cents each. 
COMPLETE COMPLETE EXAMPLE: THIS ~ 
0@@@@~Q@~8@~Q~~~~~~~~~~¥~~~ o~~~~~~~~Q@~~~~~~~~~Q~~~~~~ O@®@®~G@~<=::·G@Gca'~·<S. 1.0-.··.s.. .,;;:·c.;,;: ~··<2J<>i.'<iJG0~9 
o~~~~~~~~Q@~~~~~~~~~Q~~~~~~ 
OG>®®®€>Q@~06>@G<a)<i:>c.9)<eJ@:.~)(;;,><8®@ti>€>@<@ O~®®®®Q®®G@®G~®®@@®®e®@~®~~ 
O@®@@QQ@®b'•C:il~G<i:>~. (<il.;:J@(!C;G<!l<8<2>@<iJ<is)~~ 
O<S:>®®®®G:>®®0~®@~®®@®®®e®®~®@~ 0@@@@QQ@@06>~@(j)@@@@@€)1i:)<2)@<il®0~ O®®®®®Q~~G@®G~®®@®®®®®@~®@~ 
O<S:>®@®Q€>@®G6>®@<i:l®@~<2·®®<8®@<il®@Gl oe~e®®~®~ee®G~®@@@®®e®®~®e~ 


USE NO. 2 PENCIL ONLY PRINT NAME ... If you make a mistake or change your mind about an answer, erase cleanly and then blacken the correct oval.
Ticket Selection: Blacken ONE oval here 

I F 
I F T F T F T F
3 (X)())(:t)(J)([; 5®())m~m I®~<D~~ 7®~m~~ l®~m~m -I F 
\..t rI <fiwwcp I 2®<Dm~<D 
I ®~<c~m IOCE>~tr>(D)Cl) 
COMMENCEMENT TICKET !EQUESTFORM 

ltelun this fo.,. to the ........... Oftke (ROCHa 215 Adaliailtratioa Buildia1) ~ 
Friday, March 13, 1917. If this fo.,. illl't tuned ia by thea, you woa't be guaranteed 
tickets aad you will aot be iaduded ia the ticket lottery should there be one. 
·-I: ..~ .,:: .~ E~ 
I:,C 
i~~ 
..... I: 
~ ~-~ 
~:ce 
I: = 
.. I: .. 
-~~£
i,;l 
.. ~! 
I: > u
_o-;
J Q. E 
~~~ !.&~ .51~
.t_ 
:tiE 
u:: 
w :tiE 
C( 
z 
~ 
(/) C( 
...J 
a: 
:::1 
0 
> 

~«:»c:ICt~------------------------~-------We-dn-esd-ay_,M_ar-ch-4,_100-7--pa-ge-15
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
..~ f€11Rcfl7Hc K/5KS Nf£P£fl wacet. tN t.tF£'... IINP NOW t.IV£' II C~Y 
FfiC/1/le trJ 1111/5/( (}(!/? /l/51/f'I'O!Nl('fl ftVf'€:'1. Wit€... /f't6r 
~ f(/f(/((6 llii!A':Hm?. 
~ 

Beer Nuts 
TRUE, 11W£. 

Campus 
11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Economics Depart­ment Labor Workshop, "Early Labor Re­lations at Studebaker," by Prof. Don Critchlow, ND, 131 Decio 12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 2:30-5:00 p.m.: Tax Assistance Program, Center for Social Concerns coffee house 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, MacWrite, 108 computing center, limit 12, to register, call Betty 239-5604 3:30p.m.: Aeronautical-Mechanical Engi­neering Seminar, "Energy Storage Via compressed Gases,"by Dr. W. Leidenfrost, Purdue University, 356 Firzpatrick 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "What Can We Learn From Heavy Quarks?" by Prof. Sheldon Stone, Cornell, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 4:30p.m.: Reilly Lecture In Chemistry "Multiple Bonding Between the Heavier Main-Group Elements, "by Alan Cowley, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Promotion 
._, io=_t. ·I 

Mark Williams 
E'XCUS[ 11f, LIJOIES -BUT [ 
LOOK, KID -SOHETINES ITS 
LOOI<, I OON'f 111/NK CIJN'r FIND NY PAc.KAC£ OF 
IHI'OSS18l£ IO {)O n//NG5 
YOU FlJUY UN()[RSTAIJD
CWTII£5 4ND TJJEYi?E ~Pf· 
ON f!Hf. . La-![ 8A()( To­
Tf.//f SITUATION H£11'£. -.
OSE.t> 10 BE R.EAIJI /Ob4Y. 
NCRRa.J AND I'f1 SUR[ JT'u BE Do!Vf. 
\ 
\
\ 
/ 
• 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Treaty  
5 What dieter's  
watch  
10 In addition  
14 Wild OX  
15 Hermit  
16 Stupid one  
17 Settlement  
of a kind  
19 Anka  
20 Viper  
21 Particularly:  
abbr.  
22 Corrugated  
24 Mundane  
27 Metal  
28 Call for help  
29 Power gp.  
31 Decorative  
sticker  
35 El-, Tex.  
39 Sash  
40 Alive  
42 Xylophone  
look-alike  
<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.44 Speak 3/4/87All Rights Reserved 
lovingly  
45 Tester  
47 Train for  6 Smug  
a bout  7 Cuckoo  
48 Boredom  8 "-Miserables"  
50 Sailor  9 Upright  
51 Wire measure  10 Towering  
52 Norm: abbr.  11 Fertile earth  
54 Go back  12 Minestrone  
57 Olive's man  13 Just  
60 Japheth's  18 Soaks flax  
brother  23 Document  
61 Extinct bird  addition  
63 Mellowed  25 Space  
64 Grace  26 So soon  
68 Refuse  30 Understand  
allowance  32 Congratulate  
69 Dress shape  33 Rhyme scheme  
70 Move slowly  34 Ananias  
71 Villain's foe  35 Tempo  
72 Playgrounds  36 Forthwith  
73 Remain  37 -loss for  
words  49 Once did  58 Hideous one  
DOWN 1 Spotted rodent  38 Voice vote 41 Quality of:  51 Chevalier's girl of song  59 Equal 62 Cinereous  
2 Win by­ suff.  53 Rot  65 Wave: Sp.  
3 Mercy  43 Sister of  55 Glens  66 VIllage on  
4 Spigot 5 Melted snow  Osiris 46 Row  56 Puccini opera 57 Way  the Volga 67 Serbian city  



6:30 p.m.: Presentation, "Managaement Opportunities Night", Proctor & Gamble and Career and Placement Services, Hayes Healy Auditorium 7:00p.m.: Meeting, Toastmaster Interna­tional, 223 Hayes Healy 
Dept., sponsored by Thomas More Soci­ety, LaFortune Little Theater 
7:00 p.m.: Meeting and Lecture, by Mi­chael Garvey, sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "Secrets of a Soul," 1926, BtW, 58 minutes, directed by G.W. Pabst, Germany, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "Dead Zone". $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, 202 Center for continuing Educaiton 
8:10 p.m.: NI}SMC Theatre presents, To Dance! with Indi Dieckgrafe, SMC, O'Laughlin Auditorium for tickets call284­4626, cost $6, $5 and $4 for students 


SAB presents: 
SAB presents: 
STEVE MARMEL 

The Dead Zone Stand By Me Friday, 8:30 Theodore's 
Tonight and Friday, Saturday Tomorrow Night 7, 9, 11
FREE! 

7' 9, 11 $}.50 from Minneapolis 
Opening Act: Michael Todd 
$}.50 

• He'll be doing a benefit show at The Comedy Store in L.A. in May. 
*Absolutely NO ALCOHOL allowed in EQ
• He is going to be cutting an album; "If I Wanted Your Opinion, I'd Ram it Down Your Throat" 
Auditorium! 
-

Wednesday, March 4, 1987-page 16
Seorts 

• 
tie-breaking rematch tonight at 9 p.m. in the 
ACC Pit for the 1987 men's interhall basketball 
championship. Details appear below. 
Sorin keeps IH title hopes alive with 50-45 victory over Stanford 

By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer 
Sorin Hall defeated Stanford Hall last night in the Men's A League Interhall basketball championship, 50-45, forcing a second and final game tonight. 
Defending champion Sorin overcame a 10-point halftime deficit and hot outside shooting by Stanford point guard Dan Niedermeyer in gaining the victory. Swingman Steve Beuerlein led an impressive third quarter surge in which Sorin outscored the Studs by a 13-6 margin. Beurlein, who led all scorers, finished the game with 18 points. 
Mark Trautmann, a senior forward for the Screaming Ot­ters, chipped in with 10 points. 
"Mter keeping our inside game quiet in the first half, (Stanford) seemed to suffer some fatigue," said Traut­mann. "In the second half we were able to set some back­picks, and get some easy lay ups." 
The Sorin rally came just in time, in fact, as the defending champs found themselves down by four to Stanford with just over two minutes left on the clock. But after the Studs were slapped with a technical foul, the momentum began to shift the Otters' way. Shortly thereafter, Sorin finally seized control of the game when point guard Sean Cullinan sank a pair of clutch free throws with 17 seconds left, giving his team a three-point lead. 

Alvarez, Strong join Holtz' football staff 
Special to The Observer 
Barry Alvarez, former Iowa linebacker coach, and Jim Strong, former running back coach at Minnesota, have been named to positions recently vacated on the Irish football staff. 
Alvarez replaces former out­side linebacker coach Kurt Schottenheimer who left to be­come the special teams coach of the Cleveland Browns, where his brother Marty is the head coach. Alvarez joined the Hawkeye staff in 1979 under the tutelage of Hayden Fry. While at Iowa, Alvarez coached such standouts as Larry Station, the Hawkeyes' all-time leading tackler. 
The 40-year-old Alvarez

-graduated from Nebraska in 1969, where he was an all-Big Eight linebacker in his senior year. Strong will replace Mike Stock as the Irish running back coach. Stock left to join the staff of the Cincinnati Bengals where he will coach the special teams. Stock had been on the 
Notre Dame coaching staff for four years. 
Strong joined the Gophers' staff in 1984 with Lou Holtz after being named to Holtz' Arkansas staff in 1983. Strong played wide receiver at Tulsa for three years. 
"As a head coach, you never have trouble justifying who you hire as assistants," said Holtz of the new additions. "But you do have trouble justifying who you don't hire. In that regard, I think that both Barry and Jim are outstanding people. Barry has an outstanding reputation in the Big Ten, and I've coached with Jim personally both at Arkansas and Min­nesota. They'll both add a lot to our program because they belong at a place like Notre Dame." 
Holtz talked to George Kelly, a former Irish assistant for 18 years and current special as­sistant to Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan, about resuming on-field duties. But after consulting with Corrigan, Kelly decided to continue on in his present position. 
. ' 
Sorin sixth man Dan Reynolds iced the game seconds later with two more points from the charity stripe. 
For Stanford, the loss was its first setback of the season. 
Sarin's win last night did not clinch the championship be­cause it had already lost once in the double-elimination tournament. Their victory last night, therefore, sets up tonight's tie-breaking show­down for the championship. 
Junior AI Martin, Stanford's captain, realizes his team must attempt to put the defeat be­hind it when it faces Sorin again tonight at 9 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
"We have to learn from this 
see SORIN, page 12 

Despite season of defeats, Irish did whip adversity 
The Irish basketball team is on a pretty good roll these days. And so is that team Digger Phelps coaches. 
The men's team has been knocking down highly-rated 
teams as fast as the schedule can bring them up, and 
considering the rocky start with which this season began, 
Notre Dame's performance can only be described as a 
pleasant surprise. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
But that's not what I'm talking about here. 
The Notre Dame women's team had a rough start this 

season, to put it rather mildly. Head coach Mary DiStanis­
lao's team began with four straight defeats and the season 
continued in miserable fashion. Two-and-a-half weeks ago, 
the women found themselves saddled with a 6-15 record. 
The sluggish start was something new for the Irish. Last 
season, they finished third in the women's NIT Tourna­
ment and took the North Star Conference title with a 23-8 
overall record. The season before that, they put together 
a 20-8 record and also took the conference championship. 
Both seasons, DiStanislao was named North Star Confer­
ence Coach of the Year. 
This season, a combination of factors left the team at 
the foot of a huge hill that loomed larger with each passing 
day. One of the expected obstacles was filling the scoring 
duties handled by graduated forward Trena Keys. Keys 
holds the Notre Dame career scoring average record of 
14.3 points, and holds numerous other career marks. DiS­tanislao had sophomore Lisa Kuhns ready to try her hand at filling the outside shooting need. 
Another expected hurdle was the schedule. It figured to 
be quite a task, and it was just that. Seven of the 15 teams 
that have defeated the Irish thus far have been nationally­
ranked teams, including top-ranked Texas, No. 2 Rutgers 
and No. 7 Tennessee. 
That's when the problems DiStanislao didn't expect 
began their assault. 
Kuhns may have been ready to fill the vacant forward 
spot, but one of those hard-to-see-in-the-dark wires on 
campus prevented her from showing it. She was lost for 
the season with damage to knee ligaments. 
Next came a group of surprises, none of which were pleasant. Getting ready to leave for the second game of the season at Texas, the team's lone senior, captain 
see ITEMS, page 14 

Head coach Mary DiStanislao discusses game strategy with her team during a timeout. DiS­tanislao and the Irish have rebounded well of 



