
......--------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
·r--~~Ql
jACCENT: The 'new' Chicago I~~~~9~:.::,~o~..O':!rm••
'--==========================================: today, with highs In the low 
rl...V_I_E_W_P_O_IN_T_:_U_s_h_e_rs__n_o_t_d_o_in____;;g~j;._o_b___________,j. ~~~~:~~~v '":.:,owwaS: 11:-r 

VOL. XXI, NO. 22 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Reagan defends U.S. attack on 

Associated Press gulf toward Bahrain "because The Pentagon said three 
it had been seen loading Iranians were killed and two 

WASHINGTON -U.S. mili­suspect devices" before were listed as missing in the tary forces had shadowed the leaving an Iranian port. attack, while 26 Iranians were Iranian ship they attacked "It was no accident" that rescued, four of them wounded. Monday night for days, waiting U.S. helicopters from the It said a Navy boarding party for conclusive evidence the frigate USS Jarrett were flying found 10 mines aboard the Iran vessel was laying underwater near the Iranian ship Monday Ajr, a 1,662-ton amphibious lan­mines, Pentagon officials said night, using infrared sensors to ding craft. Tuesday. monitor its activities, one offi­President Reagan, mean­
The officials, who requested cial added. time, defended the U.S. attack anonymity, said the vessel Iran "When we caught them in the on the ship as clearly "aut­Ajr had been tracked by radar act, we had the evidence we horized by law" because the and by air for several days as needed and we moved in," he vessel was sowing mines in in­it steamed through the central said. ternational waters. 

Nicaragua to try partial cease-fire 
Associated Press country and concentrate troops 
in designated areas. 

MANAGUA, Nicaragua It said the actions were uni­
President Daniel Ortega said lateral and would allow the Na­
Tuesday the government would tional Reconciliation Commis­
start a partial truce and sion and other peace 
withdraw troops to designated commissions in these regions 
areas to open the way to a total "to explore the willingness of 
cease-fire with U.S.-supported the counterrevolutionary 
Contra rebels. chiefs to accept the cease-fire, 
"We are working on concrete and if this is positive, to ar­
actions to make known the first range the procedures for car­
zones where the cease-fire will rying it out." 
be declared," Ortega said. He The announcements were the 
said the locations of the desig­latest in a series of actions to 
nated areas would be an­comply with a Central Ameri­
nounced but did not specify a can peace plan Ortega and the 
timetable. presidents of El Salvador, Hon­
The leftist government also duras, Costa Rica and 
announced that Radio Catolica, Guatemala signed on Aug. 7. 
the Roman Catholic Church Creation of the Reconcilia­
radio station, could reopen im­tion Commission was one of the 
mediately. commitments in their agree­
A communique read by ment. 
presidential spokesman On Sunday, the government 
Manuel Espinoza said that to announced that the opposition 
achieve "an effective cease­newspaper La Prensa would be 
fire" Ortega had decided to allowed to resume publication 
postpone offensive military after a shutdown of more than 
operations in part of the a year. 
Iranian mine-laying 
Reagan also insisted, of lies" and declared: "The however, that the United States U.S. shall receive a proper had not entered a shooting war response for this abominable with Iran, and White House and act." Pentagon spokesman said the Pentagon sources reported crewmen of the Iranian vessel U.S. military bases around the would be returned to Iran. globe had been reminded to 
At the same time, Iranian maintain an alert for terrorist leaders dismissed the U.S. ac­activity, and tensions in the count of the incident and vowed gulf itself remained high. revenge. 
An unidentified IranianIranian President Ali hovercraft closed within on&

Khamenei, appearing at the United Nations, described the American account as a "pack see ATIACK, page 4 
day of activities surrounding the Inauguration. See the special Inauguration Section Inside. 

Malloy inauguration scheduled 
Special to The Observer 
For the first time in its 145­year history, the University of Notre Dame will inaugurate a president. 
Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., will be formally in­stalled as the University's six­teenth president in ceremonies scheduled to begin at 3 p.m. this afternoon in the Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
The 46-year-old theologian,· who assumed office June 1, was preceded in the Notre Dame presidency by 15 Holy Cross priests, including Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh, who served 35 years. All of Mal­loy's predecessors, however, took office without the tradi­tional academic ritual. 
Inaugural activities began 
yesterday with a 6 p.m. dinner 
in the South Dining Hall for 
out-of-town guests arriving 
that day. The dinner was fol­
lowed by a performance of 
Notre Dame choral, or­
chestral and organ music in ·Sacred Heart Church. 
Today's inauguration 
events include a 10 a.m. Mass 
celebrated by Father Malloy 
in the arena of the JACC. The 
homilist will be Father 
Thomas Oddo, president of 
the University of Portland 
(Oregon). 
Following the Mass, the 
chairman of the University's 
Board of Trustees and the 
president and chief operating 
officer of the Coca-Cola Com­
pany, Donald Keough, will 
speak at a luncheon for more 
than 1,500 inaugural partici­
pants in the ACC Fieldhouse. 
An outdoor academic procession, composed primarily of Notre Dame fac­ulty and students, and heads of learned societies, will move from the mall of the Hesburgh Library to the ACC arena at 
2:15 p.m. for the inaugural academic convocation. 
About 175 persons were in­vited to attend the inaugura­tion as representatives of uni­versities, colleges and learned societies. South Bend Mayor Roger Parent and Bis­hop John D'Arcy ·of Fort Wayne-South Bend were ex­pected to participate in the procession. 
Malloy's inauguration con­vocation is scheduled to open with remarks by Patrick Cooke, president of the Notre 

Drug-seeking gunman robs Holy Cross House 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
Notre Dame Security was still investigating Tuesday an armed robbery at Holy Cross House which occurred late Monday, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
Johnson said the intruder stole a small amount of nar­cotics from the nurses station at the house, located at the edge of the Notre Dame campus on Douglas Road. Retired Holy Cross priests, some of whom require nursing care, reside at the house. 
No one was injured and noth­ing else was taken, Johnson said. 
The man entered the house at approximately 9:35 p.m. through an a door that is usually left open, Johnson said. The intruder approached the nurses station upstairs and asked the nurses about a per­son who supposedly was a ter­minally ill patient there, said Johnson. 
The man was told that no pa­tient by that name was in residence at the house, and he was escorted to the door, Johnson said. 
The intruder then pulled out a small handgun, ordered the nurse to go back upstairs, and demanded narcotics. 
Johnson said the intruder then fled the building, taking a small bottle of narcotics. 
Johnson described the suspect as a black male in his late 30s or early 40s. He was light-complected with several acne scars. 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1987 
Throwing dining hall food just turns my stomach 
For the past two years the staff of University 
In Brief Elizabeth Saunders, of Oak Park, Illinois, has won the $500 first prize in the Nathan Burkan Memorial Com­petition at Notre Dame Law School. Saunders, a 1984 Notre Dame graduate and currently a Dean's List student in the Law School, won for her essay "Copyright Protection for Compilations of Fact: Does the Originality Standard Allow Protection On the Basis of Industrial Collection?'' The Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition is sponsored an­nually by the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers in memory of ASCAP's first General Coun­sel who died in 1936. The award originated in 1938. Of Interest \ Students and staff attending the Inauguration Ceremony at 2 p.m. today are asked to follow these in­structions. Those approaching from the north side of campus are asked to walk between Decio and the Snite (down Old Juniper Road), avoiding the library mall. Please do not walk down Juniper Road. Proceed around the west side of the football stadium, and enter the Joyce ACC through Gate 10. Those approaching from anywhere else on campus should also avoid the library mall and follow around the west side of the stadium, and into gate 10 of the ACC. This will facilitate a smooth procession. -The Observer Driving and parking will also be affected by today's events. Tlie faculty parking circle just north of the stadium will be closed today. The library circle will be closed to all vehicular traffic today. Drivers on Juniper Road should expect traffic delays all day and are urged to make plans for alternate routes. -The Observer Purdue ticket lottery sign-ups will take place today, 11 a.m. -2 p.m., in the "Old Cellar" in the basement of LaFortune. Sign-up is limited to one chance per person with a student I.D. The 300 winners will posted outside of the Old Cellar tonight or tomorrow morning. The tickets must be picked up Thursday at the ACC ticket office from 1 to 4 p.m. -The Observer Got a beef? If you do, tune in and call into WVFI's Campus Perspectives as we discuss everything under the Dome. Chris Shank hosts the show from 10-11 p.m. tonight. Call in at 239-6400. -The Observer Pax Christi will meet tonight at 9 p.m. in the Lyons chapel. The meeting will feature a viewing of the video "Gods of Metal" and a discussion. New and old members are welcome. For information, call Dan Keusal at 239-7943 or Tom Esch at 239-7735. -The Observer Women United for Justice and Peace will meet tonight at the Center for Social Concerns at 6 p.m. with the women from the shelter for battered women. -The Observer Big BrotherS'Big Sisters will hold an orientation meeting tonight at 7:15p.m. in the esc coffee room. This is the last chance for sophomores to join. For information call Scott Smith at 1164. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor .. ........ Rob Luxem Accent Layout ... ................... Rachel O'Hara Design Assistant . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Sports Wednesday Editor ... ....... Pete Gegen Layout staff... . . . . Karen Voltura Sports Wednesday Layout ....... Joe Zadrozny ............. Jodi Ziegler Special Section Editors ...... Christine Walsh Typesetters... . . . . . Chris Reardon ............................................... Lora Anthony .... Becky Gunderman ................................................... Kathy Ellis News Editor .... . Regis Coccia Special Secti0>1 Layout ............. Kathy Ellis Copy Editor .... . . . . . Tim O'Keefe Typists ........... ................... Jennifer Conlon Sports Copy Editor ... . . . . . Theresa Kelly ............................................... Cathy Haynes Viewpoint Copy Editor .. . . . . . Julie Collinge ND Day Editor ....................... Katie Gugle Viewpoint Layout ... ...... Laura Manzi Photographer............................. Brian Mast Accent Copy Editor ........ . ........ Rick Resile ne Olllrfw (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday lhrouah Friday cacept duriaa cum IDd VKalioa periods. ne ~is publisbcd by the students ol the University ol Nacre Dale IDd Saint Mary's Colleae. Sublcripti0111 may be purc:bu­ed for S40 ~year (US~ leiDtltcr) by writiq ne ~. P.O. Box Q, Nacre DuDe, ladlaa 46556. De ot.nwia a -bcr of De U I dl... rr-, All rcproduaion ri&bta are rellmld.  

Food Service at Notre Dame has put the "thanks" in my Thanksgiving and the eats in my Easter. Recently they have made my life on a diet a lot better. And before I decided to drop a little burlap, they made all of my meals exciting and speciaL 
But I guess to call anything the dining hall 
does for Notre Dame students "special" is to 
go out on a limb these days. 

Bill Hickey, director of University Food Ser­vices, has recently cancelled all Food Services special events for the remainder of this semes­ter in the wake of a major food fight after the Michigan game. And instead of taking the can­cellations as a sign of Hickey's legitimate dis­appointment, some students think having the picnics and special nights taken away is a little­disguised blessing. 
Some students have asked what else they could do to have Hickey remove some other "undesirable" aspects of the dining hall oper­~tion. Maybe we can get rid of the tofu and meatloaf and stirfry, etc. if we shed some real blood after the next football game. Punching a dining hall worker instead of verbally abusing him or her would at least be enough to get the brussel sprouts out of the "Fast Fare" line. 
This is all pretty funny when you do not con­sider that these little jokes might actually be hurting the people who give up a lot more than 40 hours a week to keep this student body fed. But then again, why should we care about those people who go out of their way to make our meals better than those at other colleges? I mean, we paid for those glasses and plates that were broken in the food fight a couple of weeks ago, and we can do with them what we damn well please. Right? 
Of course, if the students go about breaking more glasses, throwing away more food and running up higher maintenance bills for cleanup of frolicking food fight free-for-alls, we will probably notice Food Services tightening its belt to make up for the cost. And for some reason, I would suspect that shaved turkey for the deli bar, ice cream, french fries, and chicken patties (gasp!) cost more than stirfry, tofu, meatloaf and brussel sprouts. 
Cancelling the special dinners served over the various holidays for those unfortunate enough to be away from their families at these times are also a way to make up for some of those wonderful times we can have hurling double domer burgers at each other. The dining hall could just make up some baloney sand­wiches and throw them in some box lunches for the poor slobs who cannot have mommy serve them up a turkey leg. 
But Hickey would never do that, would he? I mean, he cancelled the picnics this semester 
Kevin 
e


Becker 
Editor-in-Chief 

because he knew that walking all the way out to Stepan Center is rough on the students and that some of us prefer to eat bur~ers every meal instead of having a little vartety in our meals. Never mind the fact that people got hurt, facilities were abused and dining-hall staff members were mistreated during one of those fun food fights. 
But at this point I have to 'fess up and admit that I think food fights are dumb and dining hall food is better eaten than hurled. I have always been able to find something to eat; there is the salad bar, etc. 
I have also lived on my own for the past two summers and have had to fend for myself in the grub department. Needless to say, eating cheese popcorn for dinner five nights a week is enough to make any self -respecting individual rush headfirst into any dining hall line, be it Fast Fare, Menu Fare or Chef's Fare. I have also had no problem finding tasty soups and salad to eat as I enter my fourth week of dieting this year. 
But to heck with all of that. Let's have a great time this weekend and throw food at one another after the Irish trounce Purdue. That will show good school spirit and let Hickey know that we are undaunted by the loss of Circus Lunch and the like. Let's see if we can reduce the dining hall service to nothing more than a slop line unbefitting of an inner-city soup line. 
It is the only tasteful thing we can do. 

SObering AcMce.: . 
cansavealife,;.~ 'I 
Think Before You Dr1ni< ~~ Before You Drive ~~--.. 

Know Your Rights! 
Take a look at the Students' Rights Manual being distributed throughout the dorms this week. Giving a clear outline of the rights that Domers have at NO, manual 
' also lists the proper procedures to take when accused of an offense. Also available is a listing of South Bend lawyers who are willing to work with students at reduced rates and information on Pre-Trial Diversion. This list and information is available through the Judicial Coordinator In Student Government 

------~~-~I 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 The Observer page 3 
... Lil' Sibs' weekend postponed
' 


The Observei1Srian Mast 

Tent City 
Tents are being set up In the area around the reflecting pool of the library. They are being put up for the academic procession, just one of many events scheduled for the presidential Inauguration today. 
Ourthree-year and two-yearschohirships won't make college easier. 
Just easier topayfor. 
Even if you didn't start college on ascholar.;hip, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholar.;hips pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

INTERESTED??? CALL CAPTAIN DOMINGO 239-6264 ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC (__ ORPS 
By MATT GALLAGHER 
News Staff 
Sophomore little sibs weekend, originally planned for Oct. 2-4, 1987, has been in­definitely postponed due to a breakdown of communications between the administration and the Sophomore class offi­cers. 
The weekend, sponsored by the Class of 1990, was to have been a three day event, allow­ing the little brothers and sisters of sophomores a chance to get to know Notre Dame. 
Sophomore Class President Dave Kinkopf said the officers of the class planned such events as a movie, an ice cream social, a cookout, a Casino night, and speeches by Student Government officers and athletes. 
Kinkopf said the event was to be limited to those younger 

SATURDAY SEPT. 26, 10:00 
• 3 and 6 mile runs 

• 
Dorm and Individual Competitions 

• 
TROPHIES 

• 
T-Shirts to all finishers 

• 
Entry fee $4.00/Day of Entry $5.00 Sponsored by NVA 


SMC budget upped by surprise find 
By CHRISTINE MCCANN 
News Staff 
A significant amount of money discovered in an inac­tive account will increase the Saint Mary's student govern­ment budget for the 1987-1988 school year, Eileen Hetterich, president of the board, told the Board of Governance last night. 
Last year, the student gov­ernment budget totalled $40,000. This year, due to in­creases in student fees and $6,000 that was discovered in an inactive account, that 

'Common Sense' coming back 
siblings who were betwen the ages of 10 and 15. The younger siblings were to be closely su­pervised, including a check-in at the end of each night by dorm representatives. 
Problems arose after the class had already begun plan­ning the event. The Office of Student Affairs notified the Sophomore class officers that they would not be allowed to go ahead with the event unless they met certain conditions, of which neither Kinkopf nor Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, were aware. 
Last year's sophomore class was the first in several years which had been allowed to hold a little sibs weekend, Kinkopf said. They were given permi­sion after a lengthy study, in­terviewing rectors, RA's, and other members of the commu­nity about what restraints would be necessary. 
amount has been increased to 
$49,000. 

"We're very excited about it; it means more money for you ... We hope you'll use it wise­ly," Hetterich told representa­tives of various halls, commis­sions, and classes. 
The money will be used to in­crease the per student allot­ment for halls and classes, as well as to increase the budget of certain commissions "just getting off the ground," Het­terich said. 
In other business, the board discussed the annual events Fall Fest and Oktoberfest. 
Fall Fest will take place on Wednesday, Sept. 30, in Haggar College Center. For a fee of one dollar, students can visit a spir­itual medium, view the movie "Crocodile Dundee," or listen to a DJ who will be playing on Haggar Terrace. In addition, discounts will be given at the snack bar, and the bookstore will host a "Midnight Madness Sale" at 10:30. 
The next evening Oktober­fest will be held, featuring a BeerGardens set up on Haggar Terrace. 
After review, the Campus Life committee allowed them to procede, with the condition that further review was neces­sary before the event could be repeated in the future. 
Neither Kinkopf nor Cassidy were informed of the decision. When notified that they would not be allowed to proceed until this review was made, the offi­cers of the Sophomore class decided to postpone the event until the spring. 
Kinkopf stressed that both the Sophomore class and Cas­sidy's Student Activities Office followed normal procedures. 
"Normally, if it's O.K. with Student Activities, we go for it," Kinkopf said. He stressed that this was the first time in his experience that Student Ac­tivities had to get permission from another office of the ad­ministration. 
the paper does not receive uni­versity funds, he noted. 
The reaction to Common Sense has been favorable, Dini said. 
"The faculty has been very supportive of Common Sense," Dini said, noting that faculty members are a primary source of donations. 
Support from graduate stu­dents is also high, he added, with them providing "25 per­cent of the monetary funds" needed for operation. Reac­tion from undergraduates has been "relatively quiet," he said. 
One reason is the paper is not available in areas frequented by undergraduates, he said. Common Sense is primarily distributed in areas frequented by faculty and graduate stu­dents, such as the Hesburgh Li­brary and O'Shaugnessy Hall. 
The number of papers printed constrains the circula­tion of the monthly, Dini said. 
A request to distribute the paper in the dining halls was not approved of by University Food · Services Director William Hickey, Dini said. 
Dini hopes to again ask Hickey to allow distribution. Dini addeti he will ask hall rec­tors if the monthly could be given out in the residence halls. 
Common Sense was plagued last year with people stealing stacks of papers from distribu­tion points, Dini said. The staff had members monitor the papers to insure no one stole them. 
By ERIC BERGAMO 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The first issue of Common monthly issues 
USC vs. ND 
t~OOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 

of "social justice" will be avail­able Sept. 29, said co-editor Mi­chael Dini. 
The monthly, begun last year, will continue with the for­mat of focusing on social issues at Notre Dame and around the world, Dini added. 
Common Sense is "needed to balance out the journalistic milieu on campus," Dini said. 
The monthly also has jour­nalistic independence because 
with special guest GREAT WHITE 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00PM 

-·NOTRE DAME 
A. C.C. 

RESERVED SEATS 
$15.00 

TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS, (U.P. MALL AND ELKHART), ST. JOE BANK (MAIN OFFICE), NIGHTWINDS (NORTH VILLAGE MALL AND NILES), ELKHART TRUTH, SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART), J.R.'S MUSIC CENTER ILA PORTE) AND MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 239-7356 ($1.50 SERVICE CHARGE PER ORDER) 
PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS FOR ZIP 104 

l 
l Titanic's artifacts displayed in public for first time 
•

t 
l 
1. 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 · 

page 4 The Observer 
Associated Press involved in the salvage opera­
tion. 

PARIS -Artifacts from the Divers spent 55 days over the Titanic hidden 75 years on the summer scanning the ocean floor were shown to the wreckage and retrieved the public for the first time Tues­first remnants ever taken from day and included a delicate it. About 100 reporters gath­pair of gold spectacles, a silver ered for the first unveiling, at ladle and a cracked whiskey a laboratory treating the pieces bottle. for exposure to saltwater. 
Among the items pulled from Donning thin rubber gloves, the ship but not displayed Tues­Jacques Montlucon, a spokes­day was a bag of loose, rough­man for the Electricite de cut diamonds, said an official Fran<;e lab. pulled the items 
Iran fuming at U.S. attack on Gulf boat 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS-Iranian President Ali Khamenei fumed at the U.S. "arch-Satan" before the United Nations Tuesday and swore Iran would avenge a U.S. attack on an Iranian ship in the Persian Gulf. 
The U.S. delegation stalked out in protest after the black­robed and turbaned Khamenei indicted the "bullying" United States and announced: 
"This is a beginning for a se­

ries of events, the bitter conse­
quences of which shall not be 
restricted to the Persian Gulf." 
"I declare here, very unam­

biguously, that the United 
States shall receive a proper 
response for this abominable 
act," the gray-bearded cleric 
said in an 80-minute speech in 
Farsi. 
Hundreds of angry, dissident 

Iranians demonstrated against 
the fundamentalist Tehran 
government outside the United 
Nations building, shouting 
"Expel Khamenei from the 
U.N.! Down with the criminal, 
murdering regime!" 
"I do not intend to sit by pas­

sively when our country is in­
sulted, our president pilloried 
and the truth trampled," Dep­
uty U.S. Ambassador Herbert 
Okun told reporters. 
He called Khameini's 

charges against the United 
States "false accusations 
(which) distort the facts and 
misrepresent our policy total­
ly." 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
mile or so of an American 
frigate that was towing the 
crippled Iran Ajr on Tuesday 
afternoon, the Defense Depar­
tment said, and stopped its ap­
proach · only after warning 
shots were fired across its bow. 
Despite the confrontation 

and rising tensions, the Pent­
agon announced that Defense 
Secretary Caspar Weinberger 
would proceed with a sched­
uled trip to the region. 
Weinberger will leave Wednes­
day on a five-day trip that will 
include stops in Saudi Arabia, 
Bahrain and Egypt and visits 
to U.S. warships. 
A U.S. military helicopter, 

believed to be an Army MH-6 
Special Operations aircraft, at­
tacked the vessel while a 
second copter flew nearby, 
sources said. Chief Pentagon 
spokesman Fred Hoffman said 
the American aircraft used 
7.62mm machine guns and 2.75­
inch rockets to attack the boat 
and caused extensive damage. 
Hoffman said U.S. personnel 

boarded the Iran Ajr at 10:40 
The bespectacled Khamenei, who met Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar in Iran last week, was greeted by shouts of "God is great!" from supporters in the gallery as he began his speech with a prayer. 
The 29-page text, including long, fundamentalist Islamic theology, was hardbound in blue with pages decorated in gilt designs. 
Khamenei did not answer 
President Reagan's call in a 
U.N. speech Monday that he clearly state whether Iran ac­cepts a U.N. Security Council demand for a cease-fire in its 7-year-old war with Iraq. Reagan said that if Iran does not comply, the council must enforce its resolution, refer­ring to an arms embargo. 
Khamenei, who is staying at a hotel near the U.N., has launched a vigorous propaganda campaign with foreign diplomats, using U.S. television and media inter­views and meetings with in­fluential editors. He is the highest ranking Iranian official to visit the United States since the 1979 revolution. 
He demanded in his speech 
Tuesday that Iraq be punished 
as the aggressor and said the 
Security Council had no moral 
authority because of the veto 
power of the United States and 
four other permanent council 
members. 
In Iran, Tuesday was ob­served as the seventh anniver­sary of the outbreak of the Iran­Iraq war. 
p.m. EDT Monday, about 6 hours after it was attacked and briefly set ablaze. Although Hoffman wouldn't comment, sources said the boarding party consisted of Navy SEAL com­mandos. 
Hoffman said the mines found aboard the craft were "old-style contact mines," the same type that have previously been discovered in the gulf and attributed to Iran. 
Six other· mines were believed to have been sown by the Ira Ajr before it was at­tacked and Navy helicopters were searching for them, he said. 
Hoffman said the ship would be towed to an anchorage in in­ternational waters off the coast of Bahrain. No decision has been made on the vessel's dis­position, he said. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the United States now had plenty of evidence to lay before the United Nations to document the Iranian mine-laying activity. 
"Our main purpose at this point is to document the laying of the mines ... "he said. "We certainly have the evidence." 
The satchel carried no iden­tification, expedition or­ganizers said. There are many accounts and rumors of large quantities of gems being transported on the luxury liner, which carried the cream of British and American society. 
The Titanic sank after hitting an iceberg off the coast of New­foundland on April 14, 1912. It was on its maiden voyage from England to New York. Of the 2,200 people on board, 1,513 died. 
one by one from their con­tainer. 
"Oh my," he said upon seeing for the first time the gold spectacles, in mint condi­tion and still in the leather case bearing the name of the Paris optician who made them. 
He also displayed a pale green whiskey bottle, with a small crack in its side and filled with murky water; an elabo­rate bronze grill used to cover a duct on the ship; a silver ladle, its engraved handle cov­ered in a tar-like substance, and a fluted serving bowl. 

Eric lsphording, president of the French Institute for Re­search and Exploitation of the Sea, said a leather valise con­taining coins, bank notes and loose, uncut diamonds also was found by divers. 
The institute served as a technical partner in the $2.5 million salvage operation, which was financed by a group of mostly North American adventurer-entrepreneurs. 
Now you can turn your favorite photo into your favorite poster-and get $2.50 off Champion Authentic Sportswear. 
Brighten your sorority or fratemHy 
house. Dress up your donn room. 
Hang them around campus. Or use 
them a big gifts for family or frtenda. 
12" x18" only $12.85 20" x 30" only $15.85 Just send us your t.vorlte 35 rnm nega­
tlw, slide or print. We'll send you a crisp, colorful KODAK Poster Print In your choice of two super sizes. KODAK Poster Prints make your best times In school big times! 
And with each KODAK Poster Print ordered through October 16, 1987; we'll Include a coupon worth $2.50 off any Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at $10 or more at your partici­pating college bookstore. 
Take advantage of this special, limited­time offer. Order your KODAK Poster Prints today! 

-----~ 

!jM, I want to order KODAK Poster Prints. For I each poster send me one Champion coupon worth $2.50 I off any item of Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at I $10 or more at my participating college book store. I 
Special Poster Print offer is good only through October 31, I 
198~ I I NAME I 
I I

SCHOOL 
I

IMPORTANT: Take your original35 mm color negative, slide or color print to your college store offering KODAK Processing. This request I form must accompany your order in a KODAK Processing Envelope. 
I

Coupon requests without orders will not be honored. Sports-ar must 
I 


Wednesday, September 23, 1987 The Observer page 5 
PTL scandal brings out Hahn's anger and misery 
Associated Press don't draw millions of people 
on TV 8 doesn't mean I'm not 

CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Jessica human." Hahn, declaring, "I am not a "This has been a game to Jim bimbo," says in a Playboy Bakker and John Fletcher," magazine interview that she she said in the interview. "This "hated every second" of her has been politics to Jerry Fal­sexual encounter with PTL well (who took over PTL from founder Jim Bakker seven Bakker) ... I hate Jim Bakker years ago and "it has ruined for it. I hate John Fletcher for my life." it." 
A copy of the November issue of the magazine, which in­Bakker, who resigned in dis­cludes a 31-page interview and grace from the TV ministrysemi-nude photo layout of Miss after Miss Hahn's story be­Hahn, became available Tues­came public, has acknowl­day as she concluded two days edged having sex with her but 
of testimony before a federal claims she was the one who grand jury looking into hush seduced him. money paid her after the Fletcher has acknowledgedliaison. introducing Bakker to Miss 
"You know, two men had me Hahn, but has not commented in one day," Hahn said in the on her allegations that he also 
interview, referring to Bakker had sex with her. and Oklahoma City evangelist John Fletcher, who she said ac­A man answering the tele­companied him to a Florida phone at the John Wesleymotel room for the tryst with Fletcher Evangelistic Associa­the young church secretary. tion in Oklahoma City on Tues­
"... I've been treated as less day said Fletcher would testify than human, as a thing, as a before the grand jury in Char­pawn," she said. "And just be­lotte on Wednesday and would cause I don't have a Bible or a make a statement to reportersmicrophone --just because I afterward. 
the fa111ily inn 
Student Specials 
~~H**HH COUPON H4~,...~,....,. 
52.00 OFF 1:.~ :~. 
25c Carry Out Charge With Discount Coupons iN~,......._.. C01JPON ,......~,...__ _. 

limit 1 Couoon Per Pizza 
O•OFF an, Sanclwich
Purchase 
...... Mt ,.......... IIIIIIWielilllhb 
All coupons Expire Oct. 15, 1987 -~ 
Ilion. lhru ThvrL 11 1.m. to 11:38 p.m. ~ '-~ ~ Fri. & Sat. 11 LIIL to 12:38 p.m. '-"~-~ I 
713 E. J•:a= So. 810d . . . . __ ~;; '"':...:.. I" 1 ln4 Gr•pe INII llllklalwlk•-50121 


THE MANOR • THE MANOR • THE MANOR 
FOR OVER 60 YEARS THE MANOR HAS BEEN NOTRE DAME'S RESIDENCE HALL MOST DEDICATED TO EXCELLENCE AND WE EXPRESS OUR SINCEREST CONGRATULATIONS AND SUPPORT TO 
FATHER MONK MALLOY 
-MORRISSEY MANOR 
THE MANOR • THE MANOR • THE MANOR 

President Corazon Aquino meets with the heads nation of her cabinet may give Aquino the latitude of various labor organizations, from militantly left· to solve the serious economic and political prob­1st to pro-management. The recent mass reslg· lems plaguing the Philippines. 
HPC stresses student unity 
By SUSAN MARHEFKA The suggestion that received News Staff the most positive response was reinstating the tradition of 
Campus unity was the theme meeting the team after its for last night's Hall Presidents' return from an away game. Council meeting, held at Lewis "I think it's a really goodHall. idea," said Bob Daley, HPC co­
chairman. "Only six people 
In an effort to encourage en­met them (the team) after the thusiasm for the football team, (Sept. 19) Michigan game." the HPC entertained several "The football team deserves ideas, such as more pep rallys it; Lou Holtz deserves it," said and events in coordination with Tim Salmon, the other co­the Leprechaun and cheer­chairman. "We want to be leaders. there for every game --win, 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
In cooperation with the Country Bake Shop o~Simply fill out the below order form 
South Bend, we'll deliver fr ISh baked goods & mail to: 
right to your door. P.O. Box 191 

Delivery Date.............................. Sen:e;·~o~:me
..................................•. 
Recipient's Name & Address 

,................................................................ Cakes:slzes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.00 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 Icing: white wl fruit $12.50 --chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-lncludes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
lose or draw." 
Students are asked to watch for posters in the dining and residence halls this week for the estimated time of arrival of the team after the Saturday game against Purdue. The meeting place also will be posted. 
In other council business, the HPC members have offered their services to the director of food services, Bill Hickey. 
Members have volunteered to spend an hour per person in the dining halls as a formal stu­dent apology for the food fight following the Sept. 19 Michigan-Notre Dame game. 
The effort is in conjunction with the Student Senate. "We'll help on behalf of all the student leaders," said Daley. 
The HPC established com­mittees to address difficulties students face gaining entrance to campus by car, student so­cial life including SYR's, campus fire codes, social con­cerns and ticket distribution. 
Peggy Woodward spoke on behalf of United Way, asking for dorm and off-campus rep­resentatives to help in their campaign. A meeting wil be held Oct. 1 at 6:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Room on the first floor of LaFortune for all those interested. A representative from St. Joseph's County will be present to answer questions, and campus representatives will be elected at that time. 
The new budget committee members were selected. They are: Jeff Dorschner, Tom Doyle, Jamie Froman, Jim Winkler, Karen Vuono, Bob Daley and Tim Salmon. 
The HPC Hall Life Fund for 1987-88 was established. The purpose for the fund is to im­prove hall life with "mainly capital assets" such as VCRs, TVs, couches and non-alcoholic social activities, according to 
Daley. 
Hall presidents applying for funding must show a need for the item to be purchased, use­fulness to the hall, its durability, an accurate esti­mate of the price and limit the requests from $500 to $800. The required forms also must be completed by next week's meeting or else no money will be given. 
The council will meet next Tuesday at 6:30p.m. in Lyons Hall. 
----~-----~­
rr: 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987

page 6 The Observer 

Peers dispute Bork nomination as hearings go on 
Associated Press Bork from Harvard University urban development in the Ford Cutler was on hand to give expression of support for Bork, Law School Professor administration, testified she his testimony in person. But was related to reporters at the 
WASHINGTON -Supreme Laurence Tribe, himself men­had been "startled and sad­lengthy questioning of earlier court by Supreme Court Court nominee Robert Bork tioned as a possible Supreme dened" by what she said had witnesses pushed the session spokeswoman Toni House. was described by a noted legal Court justice some day. been distortions of Bork's into the evening for a second She said White made the scholar Tuesday as a man views during the hearings so straight night, and the hearing remark last Friday to televi­whose views "could spell And a panel of witnesses in­far. was adjourned before his ap­sion talk-show host John chaos" for the nation, but other cluding novelist William pearance. He will testify later. McLaughlin and gave witnesses at his confirmation Styron and artist Robert Raus­And Lloyd Cutler, White Meanwhile, Supreme Court McLaughlin perm1sswn to hearings defended him and chenberg suggested that con­House counsel in the Carter ad­Justice Byron White was report the conversation. said his views have been dis­firming Bork to the Supreme ministration, submitted tes­quoted as saying "It would be "I wouldn't regard it as a torted by critics. Court would be a threat to timony calling Bork "a conser­all right with me" if Bork won public endorsement," she said, 
freedom of expression. vative jurist who is closer to confirmation. adding that it was up to the The Senate Judiciary Com­However, Carla Hills, who the center than to the extreme White's comment, inter­public to decide what the mittee heard the opposition to was secretary of housing and right." preted by Republicans as an remark meant. 
Biden may quit '88 race from campaign damage 
Associated Press During a break in the hearings on the nomination of 
WASHINGTON-Sen. Joseph Robert Bork to the Supreme Eiden said Tuesday he is as­Court, Eiden told CBS News sessing the damage to his and ABC News, "If the damage troubled 1988 Democratic done from this makes it presidential campaign, and a impossible for me to do these key aide said the senator has hearings and makes it discussed quitting the race impossible for me to conduct a with members of his staff. campaign at the same time, 
"I'm not going to make that then I'm not going to stay in judgment now. I'm not going to for the exercise." make any further comments on the presidential race," the Del­"Nobody would say that aware senator told reporters we're not damaged. This is a following a string of dis­time when any campaign in its closures involving law school right mind would do a reassess­
plagiarism and his use of other ment," said one Eiden aide, politicians' material in cam­speaking privately. paign speeches. 
One associate said Eiden __ Eiden's campaign was who travels to his home in Wil-damaged first by reports that mington, Del., practically he had lifted campaign speech every night --intended to dis-ma~~r~al fr~m .British cuss his political future with his pol~hci~n ~ell Kmnock, family before returning to del~v~rmg a KI~nock anecdote Washington on Wednesday. as If It were his own . 
I-
Four former attorney generals walt to testify : Happy 21st : before the Senate Judiciary Committee during confirmation hearings for Supreme Court : Birthday, : nominee Robert Bork. Many witnesses have ap­
• Chrissie • 
Navy shoots down Air Force plane • • 
: The Queen : i Associated Press fired by the F-14, said Cmdr. but Keefer said she did not e e f Jolene Keefer, a spokeswoman know which hit the Air Force Reigns Now!! • 
NORFOLK, Va.-A U.S. Air for the Naval Air Force Atlan­
jet. • •
f Force reconnaissance jet was tic. The Air Force plane was 
I 
i. accidentally shot down Tues­from Tactical Reconnaissance A helicopter from the e Love, e day by a Navy F-14 fighter over Wing 26 at Wiesbaden Air Base Saratoga picked up the two Air e Sh · • the Mediterranean Sea during in West Germany. Force officers within 30 • ar1 • 
NATO exercises, but the two The F-14, from the carrier minutes and took them to the ••••••••••••••••••••••
Air Force crewmen ejected USS Saratoga, carries the long­Saratoga, said Keefer. safely, the Navy said. 
range Phoenix missile, the "Neither of the men suffered ------------------~ 

The Air Force RF-4C jet was medium-range Sparrow and any apparent injuries, and both downed by an air-to-air missile the short-range Sidewinder, are in good health," she said. 
sor of music. for invited guests only. Sixteenth Students and faculty spouses Special inaugural exhibits 
are invited to the Mass and the were mounted in the rotunda of 

continued from page 1 academic convocation today. the Administration Building,
The Personnel Department has the Center for Continuing Edu­Dame student body; Joseph asked University departments cation, the Hesburgh LibraryReich, Jr., chairman of the to release staff employees at 2 Concourse and Rare Book Alumni Association; Jackson p.m. so they may attend the Room, and on Tuesday there Forstman, dean of the Vander­convocation. The luncheon and were tours of the campus and 
bilt University Divinity School post-convocation reception are the Snite museum for visitors. where Father Malloy received his doctorate; Ellen Weaver, chair of the Faculty Senate, 
• Use this coupon at :
·····················~ 

and Father Richard Warner, provincial of the Indiana Prov­
: COUNTY MARKET e

ince of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
: to redeem $2.00 off our : Mr. Keough and Father Hes­• 4 or 6 foot giant deli • 
burgh will vest Father Malloy and present him with the sym­
: submarines :

bols of office --a presidential medal and a mace. The mace 
was designed by Rev. Anthony : *orders must be : 
Lauck, C.S.C., professor emeritus of Art, Art History and Design. The three fanfares 
! placed 2 days in ! to be played by the University Concert Band during the 
: advance* :

ceremonies were composed by Paul Johnson, assistant profes-
COUNSELINE 
Volunteers Wanted !I! ************* 
We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if... 
-You want to help provlde a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
· You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easv volunteer work In a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask tor Tim at the University 
Counseling Center or just leave a 

message. 239-7336. 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 page 7 
Bork question easy to analyze 

P.O. Box Q 
For all those confused by the Judge Bork confirmation mess, be assured that there's little to be confused about. For example, Judge Bork wears a beard. Republicans don't vote for men (or women) in beards. Therefore, Republicans won't vote to confirm Bork. 
Ken Kollman 
on politics 

This syllogism, of course, is wrong. It does, however, symbolize the debate over the latest Supreme Court appoin­tee. People spend time analyzing the minute details of Bork's early writings, when in fact the big issue -whether one believes Judge Robert H. Bork is fit to be a Supreme Court Justice or not -is as simple as one's idealogy. 
The real reason most people are for or against Judge Bork's confirmation is whether or not they stand on his side of the ideological line. Conservatives vote for Bork, liberals vote against Bork. 
Using this easy question, politicians proceed to confuse the issue by pretend­ing it's complicated. Bork has been questioned at length over his role in the famous Saturday Night Massacre, when he dismissed the Watergate Spe­cial prosecutor, Archibald Cox, on Oc­tober 20, 1973. No accident, these ques­tions came from Senator Howard Metzenbaum, a relic-like New Deal liberal. 
To Bork's defense came Senator 
Strom Thurmond, notorious conserva­
tive who once opposed civil rights legis­
lation. Thurmond derides his Senate 
colleagues for examining in detail 
Bork's writings that are over 20 years 
old. As Thurmond knows, one can 
change one's mind upon circumstance. 
<The reader is asked to remember 
Thurmond's attack on the character of 
Martin Luther King, Jr., about attend­
ing a class on communism in the 1950's. 
The attack on the dead man's character 
occurred during the 1985 debate over a 
national holiday commemorating 
King.) 
Then there's Senator Edward Ken­
nedy, the world's most famous Ameri-
Doonesbury 
can liberal, who warns of a return to back-alley abortions, segregated schools, and government in the bedroom if Bork is comfirmed. 
On last Tuesday, Gerald Ford, fa­mous Republican, spoke to the commit­tee on behalf of Bork, reminding the senators of Bork's distinguished career. 
The pattern is easy to follow. Con­servatives like Bork, liberals don't like Bork. 
Accordingly, the fight over the con­firmation of Bork continues to be a bruising one. Each day on the New York Times editorial page there's a fresh article that explains why Bork should or should not become a Justice. Planned Parenthood and Americans For The Democratic Way (both liberal organizations) try to demolish Bork's credibility with advertisements. Pro­Life and various conservative organi­zations lobby on Bork's behalf. And naturally, demonstrators on both sides of the issue landscape the Capitol. 
The real battle, though, is in the Sen­ate Judiciary Committee, where, through lengthy dialogue, 14 senators are trying to settle the debate. It's as­sumed that five members of the com­mittee, led by Metzenbaum, Kennedy, and Senator Joseph Biden, the commit­tee chairman, oppose the nomination of Bork; that five members, led by Thurmond and Senator Orrin Hatch, support the nomination; and that four members, Senators Arlen Spector, Dennis DeConcini, Robert Byrd, and Howell Heflin, all Democrats, are un­decided. 
On these four men who are undecided rests the decision. Forget for a moment what the senators should consider in their votes. These four men are consid­ered "moderate" Democrats. Although regrettable and dangerous, what they will consider is whether Judge Bork is too conservative for their tastes. 
Bork himself says, "My philo<5ophy is neither liberal nor conservative." Yes, but his enemies are liberal, and his friends are conservative. It's really very simple. 
Ken Kollman is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular View­point columnist. 

Ushers fail to aid students in need 
Dear Editor: 

What does the word "usher" mean to you? Most people would respond that an usher is one who shows you to your seat thus keeping the incoming crowd under control. The word "usher" at Notre Dame, however, means one who is paid to don a yellow uniform and watch the football game without len­ding a hand to any of the students. The football game this Saturday was a suc­cess on the field but a disaster in the stands. Not only was the student section unruly, but also the ushers did ab­solutely nothing to alleviate the prob­lem. This was a dangerous problem to anyone who attended the game. I would like to present the problem in a couple of cases. 
Case 1: Trying to get to her seat in the student section, she was literally carried by the pushing crowd so that even her feet did not touch the ground. Luckily she was pushed toward the railing separating the box seats, thus supplying some stability. She was pushed so hard, however, by the crowd · that she did a flip over the bar into the box seats, landing flat on her back on the steps. When she looked up to find an usher to help her get up, the usher was staring at her saying that if she didn't have tickets for the box seats, she would have to leave the section, as though she had performed the acrobat­ics just to get choice seats. The usher did not offer a helping hand, nor first aid. He just restated unemotionally that she was not supposed to be in the section and she would have to leave. Shaken, and physically hurting, she slowly got up to join the pushing mob again. 
If this sounds like a fiction story or a nightmare, that girl was me this Sat­urday. Now any one who knows me, knows that I am not a small person who is easily shoved around. I feel sorry for anyone who was smaller than me in Saturday's crowd. I see the cause of this incident due to two things: the in­tensity of the pushing in the crowd, and the lack of control by the ushers. My question is, why have the ushers at all if they are not going to earn their ad­mission into the stadium? Sure, the us­hers can blame the problem on the stu­dents, but it is the usher's job to control the crowd. Isn't it my right as a student who has paid money for the ticket to expect civility from the ushers, or even a helping hand? 
Case 2: Going up the steps to the stadium seats, there were people who were being literally trampled, stepped on, pushed forward, and backward. I saw ushers laughing at the spectacle rather than trying to help the students who were being physically abused. One girl was pushed down by the deluge of people. When I turned to look for an usher to help, he was actually laughing at the girl on the steps! I could not believe it. The other usher near the sit­uation had his W alkman on, listening to the game -not doing his job. Looking around, I saw another usher with binoculars watching the game, while the uncontrolled crowd was beside him. He did not try to calm or control the situation because he was too involved in watching the game. Is this what Notre Dame hires these ushers to do? 
The list of minor and minor cases could continue for quite a few pages, but it all comes down to the point that if Notre Dame does not hire some com­petent ushers dedicated to crowd con­trol in the stadium, there could be law­suits and some potentially bad publicity for the university. Crowd control is vi­tal to the enjoyment of the football game. I am happy that Notre Dame controlled the game on the field, but as far as I'm concerned, the game in the stands was a real loser. 
Michele Martin Lyons Hall 

Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.O. Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"I think both Ned (Joyce) and believe the new team are going to really bring a new spirit to the place ... They're going to bring new Ideas and new lnltatlves and that's good. Places need change... That's what keeps places vital." 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC The Observer, Nov. 15, 1986 
General Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor·in-Chief .. ...... .. ... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managmg Editor.... . ...... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor..................... .. ........... Chris Bednarski Advertising M&.nager .. ................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .... .......................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor......... .. .................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polictes Sports Editor .. ............................ Dennis Corrigan Systems M11nager..... ......................... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .. .. .. .. . . ..... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor.. . ................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor........ .. ...................... Jim Car roil space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1968 

Accent 



Courtesy ol Werner BrosAUck Diamond Some of the faces may have changed • but the characteristic Chicago sound Is still the same. 
'New' still 
as good as old 

' I_ 
., ' 


: t· 
:~ ' t 
r I 

~"HA1 IF f'JC:M ~0 VAD 'tl)(1 
nlt'f NArE 1b T~ M£ 

T~E Mt. 8t..CK BEQ..IJS£. 
S~CK! 1'\o\ 1Wcl~ 'SW~W 

I SECED8> ~ WW..T lr nit~ 
KID. RIG\\1? 

lti..L ~t: I CAA\ \¢.:()\~ 
\
~E FNAIL'i? 

f 

pressive statistics in terms of record sales, and top ten hits. With broad listener demograp­hics as a foundation, the band has churned out eighteen al­bums in eighteen years. Its 
first was released in 1969 un­der the moniker Chicago Tran­sit Authority. 
Chicago's current album, creatively titled Chicago 18, seeks to bridge the gap be­tween the group's baby boomer audience and its younger lis­teners. The group uses one of its classic oldies "25 or 6 to 4" as a vehicle to accomplish this task. freshening up the tune with impeccable horn work and unshackled guitar riffs. Two other singles off the album, "Will You Still Love Me" and "If She Would Have Been Faithful," demonstrate the band's song­smithing prowess, as well as its time-tested ability to produce slickly arranged hits. The band's previous release, Chicago I 7, sold an impressive six million copies, produced four hit singles, and was nominated for Record of the Year at the Grammy Awards. 
Chicago was faced with a unique challenge after the suc­cess of Chicago I 7 when vocal stylist Peter Cetera abandoned the group to pursue a solo career. "Peter really wanted to be on his own and we all sup­ported that desire," remarked keyboardist Peter Lamm after Cetera's departure. "His contri­bution to Chicago over the years has been significant, but at this stage in our career, you can't help feeling that the band is bigger than any one individ­ual." Lamm added. Unfortun­ately, Cetera chose not to plow any new ground, opting for such incisive material as the 
theme from "Karate Kid II" and duets with Amy Grant. 
Having experienced the tragic death of leader Terry Kath in 1978, Chicago was not un­familiar with the renewal process they faced after Cetera's departure. Chicago enlisted the services of ace producer David Foster and as­sembled a package of songs for Chicago 18. Cetera's re­placement, Jason Scheff, the son of Elvis Presley's bass player, introduced some fresh creativity to the band and even possessed the vocal latitude to reproduce the sound of Chicago's lyrical past. 
While Chicago's critics point out its sometimes sappy, over­produced music, the band is noted for its unfettered, uni­nhibited live performances. Unrestrained by the excesses of studio technology and a producer's knob control tem­permant, Chicago's visit to the campus of Notre Dame is ex­pected to live up to this reputa­tion. Plenty of tickets are still available for the 8:00 show and can be purchased at the ACC box office. 
Bill Watterson 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 

Of He-men and women haters 
n 19.35, the script read something like this: Spanky,I Alfalfa, Buckwheat and the boys have become a little ticked at what they perceive Is the "haughtiness" of the girls In their neighborhood. In retaliation, they form the infamous "He-Man Woman Haters Club", dedicated to the edict that all women are to be condemned for their superior attitude towards men. But that was 19.35, right? 
Wrong. 

Sitzer and Yuratovac 
Domed 


Yes, It's true. The "He-Man Women Hater's Club" has In­vaded the hallowed halls of the University of Notre Dame. Armed with original personals, the club is trying to attract more members to preach its gospel of gender segregation. 
It all started with six guys sitting around in their room in Alumni Hall desecrating the alcohol policy. There was this pretty cocky freshman who called himself Spanky. After only a few weeks at Notre Dame, Spanky got pretty tired of being "blown-off" by a lot of women. You see, Spanky has one of those Notre Dame egos that is rooted In genera­tions of alumni. He got this crazy notion that women would like him just because he goes to Notre Dame. To his utter dismay, he encountered a different breed of wo­men In the land of the Golden Dome. These are the kind of Catholic girls whom Billy Joel sings about girls who have two guys at their sides at all times because of the ratio. 
It took old Spanky a while to admit he was defeated. He couldn't understand why women turned up their noses when he shotgunned his beers at the tallgaters. He couldn't understand why his "You know you want me" lines didn't work. So, he took his cause to the people --the men people. He made his way around South Quad where he collected most of his signatures from the men of Pangborn and Fisher. It seems many women didn't even know that these dorms existed. And when women came to their par­ties, they drank the ceremonial "one beer" and left for Dil­lon or Grace. 
It was outside Pangborn that Spanky met Alfalfa a double-E senior. Alfalfa hadn't been to an SYR yet except the time that he came back from the library a little too early and crashed the last couple minutes. Alfalfa had al­wa¥s vowed that he hated girls. "Girls are such a distrac­tion," he crooned. When Spanky and Alfalfa met, they realized they shared a common destiny. Alfalfa became the He-Man Woman Haters Club's most ardent campaigner. 
The first place Alfalfa headed was the dining hall. He had always eaten at the same place and at the same time each day. But tonight, he was so Inflamed about passing out He-Man Woman Haters pamphlets that he didn't make it to dinner until 6:00. It was then, while standing in the Hun­garian Noodle Bake line, that he first saw Darla. 
The dark-haired beauty was shovelling out spoonfuls of Hungarian Noodle Bake to the salivating diners when Al­falfa first spied her flawless countenance. She was slender, exotic and perfect in every way --except as fate would have It she was a girl. He couldn't abandon the cause, but it was too late. Their eyes met. Alfalfa smiled. Darla blushed and said, "Oh hi Butch," to the football player who was standing behind Alfalfa. But this minor set-back didn't stop the adrenaline that had built up inside him. 
Alfalfa now lives a lie; passing out women-hater material by day, pursuing Darla by night. He eats dinner at 6:00 each evening and has added 20 pounds of dining hall flab to his skinny body, all in the futile hope that she will ac­knowledge his quivering, pitiful presence, perhaps with an extra tap of her serving spoon upon his plate. 
Alfalfa Is at his wit's end, a helpless victim of his own hormonal Imbalances. His only choice Is to write a letter to The Observer. "Dear Darla, I'm such a nice guy," he begins. Blah, blah, blah ... , Now all he can do is walt for the reply and, at the same time, pray that his He-Man brot­hers will not discover his terrible secret. 
No one knows how many other "Alfalfas" there are In the He-Man Woman Haters club. No one knows how many men are torn by their minds and hormones. If history repeats Itself, the He-Man Woman Hater's Club will turn Into a club of one true women-hater--Spanky. 
But he's short and frumpy anyway. 
f J 
I 
I I 
!
I 
~ 
~ 
( 
f 
l 1 
l 
i 
r 
I 
I 
TOM MCDONALD accent writer 

J\ tribute to musical longevity ~n the company of the Beach Boys and the Grateful Dead, Chicago has been around as long as many Notre Dame freshmen have been alive. 
With a long and respected musical resume, Chicago represents the quintessence of a band's ability to successfully vascillate within its genre of music by adapting to the changing demands of its pop audience. Chicago brings its finely-tuned craft to Notre Dame's Joyce ACC this Friday night, September 25, in what will be one of the biggest shows of the year on campus. 
With such classics from years past as "Make Me Smile," "Old Days," "Searching So Long," "Wishing You Were Here," and the venerable prom night clas­sic "Color My World," Chicago fans have grown and matured with the band and its music. Championing the art of musical diversity, Chicago can alter­nately turn up the amps and break out the brass for a white­knuckled, unpretentious ver­sion of "Alive Again," or drum up contrived emotional impact for such ballads as "If You Leave Me Now." 
Despite Chicago's formulaic trappings, the band boasts im-
Calvin and Hobbes 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
Domer Runs
Sports Briefs changed 
The Domer Runs September 26 will start at 10 a.m. rather than 10:30. Runners should sign up from 9-9:45 a.m. 
-The Observer 
Aerobics at the ACC will be cancelled today for In­auguration Day. There will be one night class open to all tonight at 7 p.m. in Gym 1. -The Observer 
Purdue ticket lottery sign-ups will take place today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the "Old Cellar" in the LaFortune Student basement. Sign-up is limited to one chance per person with a student ID. There are now 300 tickets available. Winners will be posted outside of the Old Cellar tonight or tomorrow morning. The tickets can be picked up at the JACC ticket office from 1 to 4 p.m. on Thursday only. -The Observer 
Lyons Hall will hold its campus-wide volleyball tournament October 3-4 on Green Field. Proceeds will go to Logan Center. Sign up in the Dining Halls. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold a meeting tomorrow at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre for those in­terested in a Christmas break ski trip. This year's trip, open to all students, will be to Telluride, Co., Jan. 2-10. 
-The Observer 
The Squash Club will hold a clinic today at 7:30 
p.m. in Court 1 of the ACC. All interested are invited. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramurals co-ed flag football. For more information and sign-up forms contact Angela Athletic Facility at 284-5549. -The Observer 
Stepan Court time requests are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If your club-Organization would like to reserve time for bas­ketball, now is the time to apply. Deadline for applications is September 25. -The Observer 
SMC basketball tryouts will begin Sunday, October 4, from 6-8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Players must have a physical to try out. For more information, call 5548. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Special to The Observer 
Because of a conflict between the original starting time and the Notre Dame-Purdue game kickoff, the starting times of the Domer Six runs this Satur­day has been changed. 
Both runs will begin at 10 
a.m. with check-in from 9 to 
9:45. This is a change from the 
10:30 start time. 
Kickoff for the football game is at 11:30. 

Tile a..-Nobw o.me office, locet.d on the thlnllloor of LaFortune Stu­dint c.m., ~claalfted ~from 10 Lm. unHI <I p.m., Monday thnlugtl Fftder. 11le ~s.lnt Mery'8 office, located on the third floor of H..-Collge Cent•, eccepts c:a..lfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday ttwoug11 Fftder. o.dllne tor next-dar claalfledala 3 p.m. All ciUIIIfleda muet
Classifieds be ,...,_..,, em-In peqon Of by melt The ctwge Ia 10 cents per five ct.w:tera per day. 
NOTICES  LOST: One blue wallet Thursday night on the South Quad. If found please call Pal at 1615 immediately. There are  FOR SALE  GA'S WANTED 1 USC AND BAMA CALL BILL x3366  4 ALA­ Hey Kassie. What's opera, Doc? Your singin' pal, Robb  Mrs. B, H's been a great four weeks. Thanks for Monday Nigh!. Friday will be great. Your H.L Devil  
several forms of ID inside which I NEED'  NEED 2 USC GA'S  Aide or riders needed for 2 U2 fanatics  
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING 237·1949: H: 277·8131.  0:  Reward if returned' Lost:  1984 Toyota Extra-Cab Pick-Up. Auto· matic, AMFM & Cassette, 21 ,000 miles.  PARENTS VISITING STEVE 277 ·8932  to Cleveland Oct 6 show. If interested, call Patty 4160 endad  I may call you chtng or squinchy or gig· glesnort,but all n means is I lolle you. Thanks for a wonderful month! Your litlle  
MARISSA'S TYPING: WOAD PRO· CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY: 277·2724 EVE TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  Blue Bud Light keychain on way back from game. Call Joe at 1748. LOST: GLASSES WHEN: ON DAY OF NO VS MS GAME WHERE· SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SMC AND NO BOOKSTORE WHY: HAVEN'T YOU BEEN TRASHED  $5,200. Call Katie 239-5200 during day. or 232-5238 after 6:00. 1976 PONTIAC ASTAE. $500 OR BEST OFFER. WILL RUN. 289·2478.  WILL TRADE 2 GA PSU FOR 2 GA BC OR BAMA 201·359·2132. WILL TRADE 2 USC TIX FOR 2 BAMA TIX (GA). CALL KATIE 404-257·8588 TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF  AOSE...GIVE IT UP. Do you have our PANTY'S? We need it back-running loW! Please call­Love ya, SW, Kitten, Mini. Paddington, Cinderella, Ballerina, Bambi, & Bubbles  puppy Roses are red, Violets are blue. Guys !rom Notre Dame have no clue.  
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  BEFORE? IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUE 284·5067 LOST  TICKETS NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233· 5732  MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA­TION ··TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CO MATI 283·3549 RICH ALUM NEEDS SO CAL  DESPERATELY SEEKING STEPHEN my sweetie at Marquette My sweet guy wants to show off his HTH at a dance on the weekend of Oct 2. Going my way? Call Geese at 284-4302  1 G.A. ticket needed for the USC game $$$. Call 284·4372. blonk generation  
Recetve $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weei<' 10:00  STUDENT TIX-SECTION 33 ANY INFO CALL MARY DUNNIGAN 284·5168  I NEED PENN ST GA'S\ MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238.  !!TICKETS!! 233 6298 Want to trade 2 U.S.C. for 2 B.C. tics: call Paul 277·6399  NEED AIDE TO PURDUE FAI AFTER 5 AND BACK SUN. BIG BUCKS, NO WHAMMIES II! 284-4083 AFTER 3PM  at Uncle's Thursday night, drink specials Regis· ter to win a date wtth Brian Brohman  
a.m.-5:30. With. rece•ve an extra 10% off on pur· chases of useo paperbacks (tn stock) at Pandora's Bookstore. located at 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a week• 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Wordprocessing-Typtng 272-8827  Please, please, please L YNETIE DICKSON needs her keys back desperately!!ll no questions asked !Ill REWARD !Ill Please call 2971 anytime, best late at night. FOUND 2 STUDENT FOOTBALL TICS must be able to tdentify section & row. Call Mary Lee al 2897.  '  WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213· 422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME GA"S. 272-6306 I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN AT 1980  Need 2 BAMA GAs or my parents will make me drink meat. Tim 1199 Need 2 BAMA GAs or my parents will make me drink meal. Tim 1199 HELP!!! Must have 3 GA's for USC! $$$ WILL PAY$$$ Please call ROBIN x3832  To my Junior Admirer: Michele.Junior. Please feel free to express your deepest admirations directty to me-silverware neatly on one side, napkins in the bin...Now, WHO ARE YOU? The good-iool<ing blonde MARTA (rm 220 Farley) SIT UP AND BARK -F.Y.B.  IF YOU HAVE MY TIE(70391) I WANT IT BACK. They're all talking about blank generation " ... !heir unprofessional and drunk"·SAB "... we're not giving them drinks until they can stand"·Chips • ... 1thtnk Rick's kind of cute"·unknown Uncle's Thursday night THE CARDINALS ARE URINAL AIR FRESHENERS  
Terrie's Typi"!}'Word processtng 1283. close to campus  287­ FOR RENT  I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE  I need 2 GA's for NAVY! call David at x1817 (please!)  THE CARDS EAT WORMS  COULD MOUSES HAVE UNDETEC­TABLE SOULS???? WHO KNOWS?  
LOST/FOUND FOUND: One bracelet. Stiver and pearls. A friend tells me that the perfume it is  COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE AEN· TALS 272·5959  BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC GA'S. CALL FRANK -3104 NAVY-NEED 4 GA"S. USC-NEED 1 STUD. CALL JOHN x1867  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CAARYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  DESPARATELY SEEKING SOMEON!" with NO vs BC g.a.'s $$$ evenlngs... 288-3018 (Matt) DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA"S FOR  COULD MOUSES HAVE UNDETEC· TABLE SOULS???? WHO KNOWS? TO Tina myra on the forgotten 5th: Are we THAT scary? Margret in 503  
imbued wrth is Chane! No. 5. If you want this back, call 1536 either early or la1e. or call 239-5305 and ask for Mark Mclaughlin. LOST: CALCULATOR, CASIO 7000. PLEASE HELP ME OUT. IF FOUND, CONTACT JOHN AT 1620. $$$ REWARD$$$. LOST: ALL OF MY KEYS SOMEWHERE AT SMC. IF FOUND. PLEASE CAU 283·1073 OR I'M OUT $75. Whoever picked up my Guess jean jacket wun 10 and keyo by mistake at Senior Bar on Thurs. 9117 --Please call me! No questions asked. Leanne 289·6512 FOUND .... SET OF KEYS AFTER THE GAME ·ROOM AND CAR KEYS. YOU CAN FINO THEM AT LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND HELP 1111 LOST: One checkbook Friday afternoon  FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BOAHOOD 255·3684288-0955 B & B in quiet country setting just 7 miles from campus. Two night mtm. $45.00 per night. (616) 684-3751 for info. or reserva· tions. MOVE IN NOWt FREE RENT UNTIL 1OQS1l7. Two separate 2 bedroom apart· ments available, each with kitchen. full bathroom and large living room. Beds and dressers furnished. Aenl includes all utilities. Call 232·9239. 3 BEDROOM APTM BEAUTIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 6298 WANTED  WANTED: USC GA's WILL PAY $$$$$$$ CALL ELLEN 272·0806 Need 2 USC ga's. Call Jose at 263·3346 $$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! I'M DESPERATE!\!! I need 2 or 4 GA'S to any home football game after MICHIGAN STATE!!!II!I!II\ If you can help, my Dad has tons of money, serious­ly. PLEASE CALL Jenny at x3618 $$$$$$$$$ HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP My Dad needs 2 Navy GAs! If I dont get them he will send some very LARGE, very UN· FORGIVING persons out lool<ing lor me. Save my health, please! Call Pat a1 x1768 I NEED 2 G.A.S FOR THE USC GAME ON OCT 24. IF YOU GOT 'EM, SELL 'EM TO ME. CALL 3n2  WAKE UP! GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (GLNOSMC) BOX 194: NOTRE DAME. IN 46556 CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL ALYSSA 3736 I'M YOUNG AND RESTLESS AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY, SEPT. 25. BUT THIS SIX DAYS UNTIL SHE TURNS 21. PARTY THUR. NITE WITH $2 PITCHERS & bJ.nk gener8tlon AT UNCLE"SII  USC. CALL LINDA AT 284·5406 HEY, I NEED 3 GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME! PLEASE CALL PATII AT 284· 5176. Cubl. Snell. Vlno. Lar. Kristen. Brlsn. Dave. Jamu, Goodby, I'll miss you all this year. Have fun In South Bend and wrtlll me everyday. Love, Mat1a NEED AIDE TO PURDUE THAT LEAVES FRI. AFTER 4 AND RETURNS SAT. NITE WILL SHARE COSTS. CAU TOM AT 2301 OR 2302  Hey EILEEN DOHERTY I've gal some dirty laundry tha1 needs to be washad. Can you help me out? To Tina ·myRA on 5 Help my roommate. She wont come out of the sink. 503 SECOND FLOOR LEWIS: Thanks for the smiles! No more late r.alls ·I promise. Andy PLEASE HELP!!! Need ride home from PURDUE anytime SUNDAY. C.ll LISA £3832 Roses are red, Violets are black, We want a single sex college back. Happy 21st John! See you at Senior Barl  
(12·1p.m.) between PW & Cushing. AlsO,  AUDITORS  NEEDED  DAYS.  WAITE  The Beefs  
Friday nite-wh~e NO jacket with green &  YOUR OWN  SCHEDULE. CAU 272·  1 WAY FLIGHT TO NYC SAT OCT 17  SWEET REVENGE: Webs, you haven't  
yellow piping, says 'brew cri!NI' on front, contains NO 10, dalex. drivers' license, etc either at Navarre St, Campus View or Brendenwood Apts. If any of the above found, please contact ZooBrsin a.k.a.  0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. Models needed for I USB Fine Art• O. pertment. Clothed. $4.00 hr., nude,  9:30 AM 2874336 NEED Pm TlX please caM Becca 4290 or Mom will kill me  had any aH·nighters wHh the Glee Club yet! Aren't you a groupie anymore? Mary, you say he doesn't remember you taking his Bartels&Jaymes. Should I remind him? And Rach, I think your Keenan date  WEAR A RED RIBBON Show your solidarity with the oppressed of South Africa. Wear a red ribbon during the in­auguration activities on Wednesday.  Good g..cloua _,In thana tor the lunch you guys I'MIIy.,. bou -vt­aomeday.••. 1 could .... be.•... ,..... who the hell would wtorll to be -mrn lib  
Colleen at 283--4355 or 411 PW. FOUND, Outside of Morris Inn Saturday  $6.00 hr and up. Contact Joan For· •vthe or Tony Droege, 237_.2n. or Harold Langland, 237-4475.  NEED 2 GAs or STUO. TIX FOR BAMA Call Rachel x2930  should be a yearly event. YOU ASKED FOR IT..• The Zhulkster  So you want my U2 tix for Indy November  you guys Riders needed to St. Bonaventure U. 01  
morning, a blue watch with a black wristband. H you lost n. call1615 with a full description of the watch to claim n.  NEED RIDE TO PURDUE LEAVING SAT. MOAN. CAU KATHY AND PAULA  Need to exchange 2 Navy GA's lor 2 BC GA's CaR Jayme £1790  GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS RIDERS! COMING? CALL JODI AT 1282.  181.".".--LET'S MAKE A DEAL-H you've got BC GA"s behind Door No.1, then we winl! Call Monty 3571  Erie PA this weekend 01 next. 1:2033 DAN STRUTZEL LOVES BOAK BIOEN  
Ask for Pat.  AT 3590.  I NEED PURDUE TlX MIKE 1741  IS THE ANTICHRIST  

The Observer 

Sports Wednesday 
page 10 Wednesday, September 23, 1987 
lnterhall Soccer Soccer Top 20 Sports Lists 
The Top 20 college aocc:.r !Mma In the lntercol· legiate Soccer Association of America coaches· poll 
North American DIVIIIOn Thursday's Re1ulta 
w L Pet. GB Off Campus Hoobers 3, Zahm B 0 
with this season's records. The third column has the 
Fisher 0 1.000 Morrissey A 4, Holy Cross B 1 

"Give me an OUCH!"
Top 20 rankings in the Soccer America Megazine
Flanner F.C. 0 1.000 
Grace A 1, Law School 0, forfeil 
poll as compiled by rts editorial staff. Notre Dame
Sorin 1 0 1.000 Sunday's Results 
opponents are Italicized: 

Injuries Sustained by Cheerleaders, 1985*
Cavanaugh 0 .000 Sorin 6. Morrissey B 0 
Keenan White 0 .000 Stanford 1, Alumni 0 
1. Fresno State 8-0·1 1
Morrissey B 0 .000 Pangborn 1, Grace B a. lorteit WHtern European Division Zahm A 3, St. Ed's 2 
2. Virginia 8-0·0 2 3. Norlh Carolina 7-Q-0 3
Pangborn 1 0 1.000 Garabald1 3, Grace A2 2 
4. Akron 4.0·2 5
Stanford 0 1.000 Holy Cross A 2, Off Campus Spleiphs 1 

5. South Carolina 5-0-2 4 .
Zahm A 1 0 1.000 Monday's Results 
6. San Francisco s-o-o 7 
1,291
Keenan Blue 0 0 .000 .5 Flanner F.C. 1, Cavanaugh 0, lorfeit 
7. Seton Hall 3-0·1 6
Alumn1 0 1 .000 1 F1sher 2. Keenan White 0 
B. Harvard 2.0.0 9 
890
Grace B 0 .000 Law School 3, Zahm B 0 
9. Quincy 6·1-1 13

St. Ed's 0 .000 Grace A 2, Holy Cross B 1 European Division Tueaday's Re1ult 785
10. UCLA 5·1.0 9 
11. William & MAry 5·0·0 12
Garibaldi 1 0 1.000 Off Campus Hoobers 4, Dillon Big Red 0 
12. Colombia 1-1·0 19

Holy Cross A 1 0 1.000 Wednesday's Games 783
13. Rutgers 5.0·0 17
Carroll 0 0 .000 .5 Pangborn vs. Stanford Dillon A 0 0 .000 .5 
14. Duke 5-2.0 11

Holy Cross A vs. Grace A2 549
15. Southern Methodist 3·2.0 e
Flanner B 0 0 .000 .5 Carroll vs. Flanner B 
16. Connecticut 5·2·1 20

Grace A2 0 1 .000 Thurtday's Game 549
17. Evansville 4-3·0 13
Off Campus Spleiphs 0 .000 St. Ed's vs. Grace B 
1e. St. Louis 4·1·1 16
Sunday's Games 
471
19. Norlh Carolina State 5-1·0 13
South American Division Fisher vs. Cavanaugh 
20. Notre Dame 7-Q-0 18
Grace A 2 0 1.000 Sorin vs. Keenan White 
288

Off Campus Hoooers 2 0 1.000 Flenner F.C. vs. Morrissey B Great Lakes Region Top 10 Morrissey A 1 0 1.000 .5 Alumni vs. Keenan Blue This week's Great Lakes region poll of coaches. With Law School 1 1 .500 1 Grace A2 vs. Off Campus Spleiphs records through Sept. 21 Notre Dame opponents 2~8 Dillon Big Red 0 1 .000 1.5 Grace A vs. Morrissey A are italicized. Zahm B 0 1 .0 1.5 Dillon Big Red vs. Law School 273 Holy Cross B 0 2 .0 2 Zahm B vs. Holy Cross B 1. Akron 4-0·2 50 
2. Evansville 4-3·0 41 Notre Dame 7-Q-0 41
NHL Preseason American League 
4. Marquette 5·1·1 37 5. Indiana 5·2·0 30 Saturday's results Eut 6. Bowling Green 5·1·0 27 Winnipeg 6, Minnesota 6 w L Pet. GB 7. Wisconsin 6·2·0 25 Boston 4, Washington 4 Toronto 92 59 .609 B. Clevelland State 3·2·0 15 Oetrort 91 59 .607 .5 9. Miami (Ohio) 3·3·0 6
Detroit 5, St. Louis 2 
Milwaukee 83 68 .550 9 10. Wright State 5-1·1 5
Quebec 3, Montreal 2 
NewYorl< 83 68 .550 9 Canadian Olympic Team 5 Calgary 4 
Boston 73 77 .487 1e.5 
National League
Hartford 5, New Jersey 4, OT Baltimore 63 sa .417 29 New York Islanders 4, Philadelphia 1 Cleveland 57 95 .375 35.5 New York Rangers 6, U.S. Olympic Team 5 


E..t MEN'S CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Vancouver 2. Los Angeles 1 WMt w L Pet. GB l.Mhy Division East
Minnesota e1 70 .536 St. Louis B9 61 .583 w L T Pet. PF PA 
w L T Pet. PF PAOakland

Sunday's results 77 74 .510 4 New York 86 65 .570 3.5 Dillon 0 01.000 21 0 Dallas 0 .500 29 38Kansas City 75 77 .483 6.5 Montreal
St. Louis 4, Chicago 4 65 65 .587 4 Grace 1 0 01.000 6 0 Philadelphia 0 .500 51 51
Texas 73 77 .487 7.5 Philadelphia 75 76 .497 14.5 Flenner 0 0 1 .500 0 0
Edmonton 5, Minnesota 3 St. lOUIS 1 0 .500 4e 41 Cal~omia 71 e1 .487 10.5 Pittsburgh 73 7B .483 16.5 Morriasey 0 0 1 .500 0 0 Washington 1 1 0 .500 54 45
Sherbrooke (AHL) 7, Montreal 1 

Seattle 70 e1 .464 11 Chicago 72 7e .480 17 Keenan 0 1 0 .000 0 6 
N.Y. G1ants 0 2 0 .000 33 50

Philadelphia 3, U.S. Olympic Team 2 Chicago 68 83 .450 13 WMt Off Campus 0 1 .000 0 21
0 
Central 

Buffalo 5, Washington 3 San Francisco 82 69 .543 Parseghlan Division 01.000
Chicago 2 0 54 22 Calgary 3, Winnipeg 0 Cincinnati 75 75 .500 6.5 Stanford 1 0 01.000 41 0 Minnesota 0 01 000 55 35
2 Tueeday'a Reaulta Houston 72 7B .480 9.5 Cavanaugh 0 0 1 .500 0 0 Tampa Bay 1 0 .500 51 30 Monday's results Milwaukee 7, New Yor1< 2, 1st game Los Angeles 66 85 .437 16 Zahm 0 0 1 .500 0 0 Green Bay 0 1 .250 17 37 New York 10, Milwaukee e, 2nd game AHanta 64 65 .430 17 Alumni 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Detroit 0 2 0 .000 29 61
Edmonton 4, Toronto 2 

Toronto e, Belli more 4 San Diego 63 B7 .420 1e.5 Holy Cross 0 1 0 .000 0 41
Canadian Olympic Team 5, New Jersey 3 Weal 
Detrort e, Boston 5 Rockne Division 
Atlanta 1 1 0 500 31 68 Oakland 10, Cleveland 2 Tuaeday'a Reaulta Pangborn 1 0 01.000 27 6 New Orleans 0 .500 45 48
Tuqday'l niiUitl 

Minnesota 6, Texas 4 Chicago 6, New York 2 Fisher 1 0 01.000 e 0 San Francisco 1 1 0 .500 44 56 Chicago 3, Detroit 3, OT Ca/Homia 5, Chicago 3 Cincinnati 5, Sen Diego 3 Carroll 0 0 0 .000 0 0 L.A. Rams 0 2 0 .000 32 41 Los Angeles at Vancouver Kansas City 4, Seattle 3, 10 inning~ Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 3 Sorin 0 0 .000 0 8 Hartford at Pittsburgh Atlanta 6, Houston 2 St. Ed's 0 0 .000 6 27 AMERICAN CONFERENCE New Jersey vs. Canadian Olympic Team at 
St. Louis 3, Philadelphia 2 East Wedneaday'a Games Los Angeles 4, San Francisco 3 w L T Pet. PF PA
North Bay, Ont. Toronto (Flanagan 5·7) at Baltimore (Habyan 5-5) N.Y. Jets 2 0 01.000 74 52
New York Rangers at New York Islanders Lut Sunday's Results 
Detrort (Alexander Hl) at Boston (Hurst 15-11) Wednesday's Games Dillon 21, Off Campus 0 New England 0 .500 52 64 Calgary at Winnipeg 
Oakland (Ontiveros 9-e) at Cleveland (Akerfelds 2·5) Philadelphia (Ruffin 10·14) at Chicago Grace 6, Keenan 0 Buffalo 0 500 62 61 
U.S. Olympic Team vs. Buffalo at Rochester, 44
Texas (Guzman 14·11) at Minnesota (Biyleven 14· Sen Diego (Show 8-B) at Cincinnati (Power 10-12) Flenner 0, Morriasey 0 Miamt 1 1 0 .500 3e 
N.Y. 11) Montreal (Smith 1()..7) at New York (Candelaria Q-0) Stanford 41 , Holy Cross 0 lnd1anapohs 0 2 0 .000 31 46 New York (Allen O-e) at Milwaukee (Wegman 10·11) Houston (Desha/as 10-6) at Atlanta (Z. Smrth 15·9) Cavanaugh 0, Zahm 0 Central Wednesday's schedule Chicago (Long 8-e) at Ca/Hornia (Reuss 4-<1) Pittsburgh (Fisher 9·9) at St. Louis (Mathews 1 0-10) Pangborn 27, St. Ed's 6 Cinctnnatt 1 1 0 500 49 48 
Winnipeg at Minnesota Kansas Crty (Gublcza 11-17) at Seattle (Langston Loa Angeles (Hershiser 18-13) at Sen Francisco Fisher e, Sorin 0 Cleveland 0 500 55 38 1e-11) (Reuachel 13-7) Houston 0 .500 50 50
New York Islanders at New York Rangers .,
Pittsburgh 0 .500 40 51 Edmonton at Toronto 

Sunday's Games West Quebec at Hartford Keenan vs. l.A. Raiders 2 0 7
Thursday's Results 

Thursday's Games Sen Diego at Cincinnati Flanner 01.000 47 Washington vs. Boston at Worcester, Mass. Detrort st Toronto Philadelphia at Chicago Off Campus vs. Grace Denver 0 1 750 57 34 Morrissey vs. Dillon
Canadian Olympic Team vs. Buffalo at Lon­Texas at Minnesota Houaton at AUanta Kansas City 0 .500 34 56 don. Ont. Boston at Milwaukee Montreal at New York Stanford vs. Cavanaugh San Diego 0 .500 41 44 
Calgary vs. Chicago at Madison, Wis. Chicago at Oakland Pittsburgh at St. Louis Zahm vs. Alumni Seattle 0 .500 60 54 
St. Ed's vs. Fisher Sorin vs. Carroll Sunday's Results Chicago 20. Tampa Bay 3
Sports Calendar AP Top 20 

Denver 17, Green Bay 17 WOMEN'S CONFERENCE Buffalo 34. Houston 30
The Top Twenty col/ega football taama In The 

w L T Pet. PF PA Miami 23. Indianapolis 10
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes In paren-

Farley 2 0 01.000 30 0 Philadelphia 27. New Orleans 17Home games in CAPS Volleyball at Bowling Green theses, this season's records and total points. Points Lyons 1 0 01.000 14 0 Cleveland 34. PittSburgh 10
based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponenl8

Women's tennis at IRISH INVITA-Breen-Phillips 1 0 .500 34 1e San Francisco 27. C1nc1nnat1 26 
are Italicized. 

Pasquerilla East 1 1 0 .500 2e e Atlanta 21. Wash1ngton 20
TIONAL
Today 

Pasquerilla West 1 I 0 .500 18 34 Dallas 16. New York Giants 14Field Hockey at Purdue 1. Oklahoma (53) 2-o-o 1,193
Soccer vs. ILLINOIS STATE Bedin 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Los Angeles Ra1ders 27, Detroit 7
2. Nebraska (7) 2-Q-0 1,129

SMC tennis at SAINT MARY'S INVITA-1 0 .000 0 14 Seattle 43, Kansas Crty 14
SMC volleyball vs. GOSHEN 3. Auburn 2-Q-0 1,02e Lewis 0 
TIONAL Walsh 0 1 0 .000 0 22 Minnesota 21. los Angeles Rams 16
4. Louisiana State 3-()..(1 995 

Howard 0 1 0 .000 0 2e Sen D1ego 2e. St. louis 24
SMC soccer at Purdue 5. Miami (Fla.) 7-Q-0 888 
Thursday 
6. Florida Sta1a 3-()..(1 SS9 
Mond•y'a Result
Volleyball vs. BRADLEY 7. Ohio State 2-Q-0 867 

Lui Sunday's Results New York Jets 43, New England 24
8. Notre Dllme 2.0.0 711

SMC soccer at Notre Dame Pasquerilla East 28, Howard 0 
9. Clem8on 3-()..(1 777

Sunday Farley 22, Pasquerilla West 0 Sunday's a ......
10. Atkanus 2-Q-0 843 

Breen-Phillips 22, Walsh 0 Chicago at Detroit 
Friday Soccer at Wright State Invitational 11. Tann-3-()..(1 587 

Lyons 14, Lewis 0 Atlanta at New Orleans Women's tennis at IRISH INVITA­
12. Arizona State 2-Q-0 547 

Women's tennis at IRISH INVITA­Tueeday'a Results Buffalo at Dallas
13. UCLA 2·1.0 507

TIONAL Farley e. Pasquerilla East 0 Green Bey at Tampa Bay 
TIONAL 14. Michigan 1-1-() 307 

Pasquerilla West 18, Breen-Phillips 12, 60T Indianapolis at St. louis
SMC tennis at SAINT MARY'S INVITA-15. Penn State 2-f.{) 231Men's cross country at NATIONAL 

Thurtday'a Games Los Angeles Ra1ders at Houston 
TIONAL 16. Texas A&M 1·1.0 223

CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL Lyons vs. Howard Minnesota at Kansas Crty
17. Alabama 2-1-() 214 Women's cross country at NATIONAL 18. Washington 2·1.0 178 

Walsh vs. Badin New England at Washington Sunday's Games New York Giants at Miami
CATHOLIC INVITATIONAL Monday 19. Iowa 2·1.0 164 

Farley vs. lyons Cincinnati at Los Angeles Rams
20. Georgia 2·1.0 145

SMC volleyball vs. SIENA HEIGHTS Field hockey at Olivet Howard vs. Lewis New York Jets at P1ttsburgh Badin vs. Pasquerilla West Philadelphia at San Francisco
Others receiving votes: Florida 143, Syracuse 45, 

Breen·Phillips vs. Pasquerilla East Seattle at San Diego
Saturday Tuesday Oklahoma State 34, Plttaburgh 32, South CaroNna 

Next Tuesday's Games
30, Michigan State 27, Southern Cal 5, Boston Col· 

Football at Purdue Soccer vs. BOWLING GREEN Walsh vs. Pasquerilla West Monday's Game
/ega 3, North Carolina 3, Duke 2, Air Force 1, Kent 

Pasquerilla East vs. Badin Denver at Cleveland
Soccer at Wright State Invitational SMC volleyball at Bethel State 1, Kentucky 1, Temple 1. 

Irish Volleyball Scoreboard 
Football Soccer
PLAYER GP KILLS AVG E TA PCT AST AVG ACES AVG DIGS AVG as BA AVG 

Notre Dame 31. Michigan State 8 Notre Dame 3, Michigan State 1 Zanette Bennett 25 92 3.68 17 200 .375 6 0.24 17 0.68 52 2.08 7 19 1.04 Notre Dame 5, Northwestern 0 Maureen Shea 25 74 2.96 22 179 .291 4 0.16 9 0.36 41 1.64 5 25 1.20 Findlay 2, Saint Mary's 1 Kathy Cunningham 23 63 2.74 35 176 .159 2 0.09 10 0.43 46 2.00 0 11 0.48 Saint Mary's 3, Oberlin 2 Mary Kay Waller 9 23 2.56 8 50 .300 1 0.11 3 0.33 16 1.78 3 16 2.11 Colleen Wagner 15 30 2.00 18 83 .145 0 0.00 6 0.40 26 1.73 0 4 0.27 
Volleyball Field Hockey Notre Dame over William & Mary. 11-15, 15· Notre Dame 1 , Alma 0
Rachel Hall 6 7 1.17 5 18 .111 1 0.17 1 0.17 3 0.50 3 3 1.00 
13, 8·15, 15·13, 15-10 
Gretchen Kraus 10 11 1.10 3 34 .235 2 0.20 4 0.40 13 1.30 0 5 0.50 

Notre Dame over Eastern Kentucky, 15·1 1, Women's Tennis 
Whitney Shewman 3 3 1.00 0 11 .273 0 0.00 3 1.00 3 1.00 0 0 0.00 

15·7, 15·5 Notre Dame 8. Marquette 1 Taryn Collins 25 16 0.64 6 51 .196 284 9.92 9 0.36 62 2.48 1 18 0.76 Notre Dame over Cincinnati, 10·15, 15-10, Saint Mary's 9. Goshen 0 Kathy Baker 11 7 0.64 7 36 .000 4 0.36 0 0.00 17 1.55 0 10 0.91 15-5, 13-15. 15·10 Saint Mary's 9, St. Francis 0 Amy White 10 4 0.40 5 19 -.053 1 0.10 1 0.10 24 2.40 1 4 0.50 Notre Dame over Rice, 7-15, 15-11, 10·15, Saint Mary's 9. Anderson 0 
Jill Suglich 14 0 0.00 1 3 -.333 2 0.14 1 0.07 16 1.14 0 0 0.00 15-6, 15-7 Saint Mary's over Valparaiso, 9-15, 16-14, Golf
Kathleen Morin 1 0 0.00 1 2 -.500 7 2.33 0 0.00 1 0.33 0 1 0.33 

15-9, 13-15, 15·12 Notre Dame 379, Westem Michigan 406
NOTRE DAME 25 330 13.20 128 862 .234 278 11.12 64 2.58 320 12.80 20 116 3.12 

Bluffton over Saint Mary's, 15·8. 15-10 Notre Dame. first place in the Glen Oaks 
OPPONENTS 25 311 12.44 166 983 .148 264 10.58 52 2.08 392 15.68 21 61 2.06 

Walsh over Saint Mary's, 15·8, 15·7 Classic 

Toronto tops Orioles, Tigers beat Red Sox 
Associated Press Willie Hernandez got one out in the ninth, and Dickie Noles got 
BALTIMORE -George Bell the last out for his first save drove in the winning run for the since being acquired from the second consecutive game, sin­Chicago Cubs. gling in the eighth inning to touch off a five-run rally, as the Twins 6, Rangers 4 Toronto Blue Jays defeated the MINNEAPOLIS-Kirby Baltimore Orioles 8-4 Tuesday Puckett, Greg Gagne, and Tom night. Brunansky hit home runs to 
The victory, Toronto's third lead the Minnesota Twins to a straight and 15th in 20 games, 6-4 win over the Texas Rangers enabled the Blue Jays to main­Tuesday night. tain their lead in the American League East over Detroit. The The victory was Minnesota's Blue Jays started the night with fourth straight and reduced the a half -game lead over the Twins' magic number to eight Tigers. for winning the American 
Bell's blooper to right came League West. The Twins main­off reliever Mark Williamson tained their four-game lead
Irish cornerback Stan Smagala (29) looks for ac­Smagala below. The Observer I Greg Kohs 
and increased his major over Oakland, which defeated
tion against Michigan. Steve Megargee features 
league-leading RBI total to 130. Cleveland 10-2. Ernie Whitt added a two-run double as the Blue Jays im­Minnesota increased its 
proved their season record home record to 53-23, the best against the Orioles to 11-1. The in the majors, and snapped a Orioles have lost 19 of 22 and four-game Texas winning are 7-47 against the five teams streak. 
Defense tougher with Smagala 
By STEVE MEGARGEE coaching staff had its first ex­need." 
ahead of them in the AL East.
Sports Writer perience to watch the young Smagala quickly showed 
Brewers 7, Yankees 2
man as a player." fans that he belongs in the de­A little conversation can go Smagala impressed the fensive backfield during Notre Tigers 8, Red Sox 5 MILWAUKEE-Robin Yount 
a long way. Just ask the family BOSTON-Kirk Gibson had drove in four runs with a double 
coaching staff enough to be Dame's season-opening win of Stan Smagala. placed on the recruiting list and over Michigan. The sophomore four hits and scored three runs and a home run and Teddy 
and Darrell Evans drove in Higuera won his seventhSmagala's road to a starting eventually earn a scholarship put a hit on Wolverine quarter­
cornerback position for the to Notre Dame. But that was three Tuesday night, leading straight game as the Mil­
back Demetrius Brown that 

Fighting Irish started when with the Gerry Faust coaching forced Brown to throw his first the Detroit Tigers to an 8-5 vic­waukee Brewers defeated the tory over the Boston Red Sox. New York Yankees 7-2 in the
Stan Smagala, Sr. had a staff. Once Irish coach Lou interception of the afternoon to 
friendly chat with his old high Holtz replaced Faust, Smagala Cedric Figaro. He also Detroit remained one-half opening game of a twi-night 
school football coach, Joe Sas­had to prove himself to another recovered a fumble later in the game behind first-place doubleheader Tuesday. sano, who happened to be the group of coaches. game. Toronto in the American coordinator of the Notre Dame After switching from tail­But what impressed Forbes League East. The Blue Jays Higuera, 18-9, scattered summer sports camps at the back to cornerback at the the most was Smagala 's per­beat Baltimore, 8-4. seven hits, struck out four and time. beginning of his college career, formance against Michigan Detroit starter Walt Terrell, walked three in seven innings 
"We were at a fair in Smagala has done just that, State last week, as Smagala 16-10, survived home runs by before getting relief help from 
Ellis Burks, Todd Benzinger Mark Clear and Paul Mirabel­
Chicago, and he was talking earning a starting position at graded out the highest among about his son," said Sassano, right cornerback. the Irish defensive backs. and Wade Boggs. Mike Hen­la, who notched his second currently the coordinator of "I thought it would be the "I liked the fact that he neman pitched 1 1-3 innings, save. events at the Joyce Athletic and best thing for me to play defen­played significantly better Convocation Center. "I sugges­sive back; I was getting against Michigan State than head into the rest of their Par­ted he send him to the Notre recruited as a defensive back," Michigan just in terms of seghian Division games,
Tie

Dame summer football camp." said Smagala. "Each day is a playing consistently," Forbes players and fans from both
continued from page 16
At this time, Smagala was learning day for me, and I'm said. "He played pretty well sides will be awaiting a enjoying a fine career at tail­still learning the position. I feel against Michigan and signifi­we've been in the champion­rematch, possibly at Notre back for St. Laurence High more confident, and I feel I can cantly better against Michigan ship, and we didn't win the first Dame Stadium in November. School in Chicago, but he did just get better each day." State. game either year.'' After this In other interhall action, low not appear to be as much of a Secondary coach Terry "There aren't many things hard-fought game, Golonka is scoring was the story of Sun­college prospect as his class­Forbes shares the optimism he can't just flat out do. We're looking forward to the rest of day's games. mates, which included Irish concerning Smagala's future. looking for Stan to be more con­the season. "I think we got the The Green Wave of Fisher teammates Tim Grunhard and "He has all the ingredients fident and aggressive, and to toughest game out of the way. defeated Sorin 8-0. Freshman Jeff Pearson. you look for in a defensive take the ball from our oppo­We showed a lot of good things, running back Pat Murphy took 
"He wasn't getting much at­back-quickness, intelligence, nents several times." our plays were working. We'll a handoff on Fisher's third play 
tention because there were and a drive to succeed which That would suit the former be working on our offensive from scrimmage and ran 57 probably seven other blue-chip makes him correct his mis­tailback just fine. line." yards for the touchdown. recruits on that team," said takes," Forbes said. "He's got "That's my goal, to get an There is no doubt that the Murphy followed with a two­Sassano. "One bit of conversa­excellent leverage as far as interception and run with it," Manorites and the Flanner point conversion rush to close tion led to another, and that led tackling ability, and has great said Smagala. "I really like to team are better offensively out the scoring. Stan Sr. to sending Stan Jr. to control of his body. Put that all get the ball and have a chance then their opening game per­the summer camp, where the together and he has what you to run with it." formances suggest. As they "After that," noted Fisher 

TERRIFIC VALUE 

join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge.
. 
MATEO'S SUBS 
1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday Offer may expire without notice Not valid with any other promotion 

coach Chris Carlson, "neither 
team could generate much of­
fense." 
In another game full of offen­
sive heroics Cavanaugh and 
Zahm fought to a scoreless tie. 
Tailback Brian Driscoll ·Jed 
Zahm's offense. 
''There was lots of running in this game," said Zahm coach Pat Havel. "I was surprised that Cavanaugh didn't throw more. They only threw about three passes, and we inter­cepted two of them." 
Parseghian League powers Dillon and Grace won their respective games, the Big Red downing Off-Campus 21-0, and Grace defeating Keenan 6-0. 
Defending Leahy League champion Stanford demolished Holy Cross 414. Stanford once again is the team to beat in the medium-sized dorm group . 
And in the final game, Pangborn downed St. Ed's 27-6 in the Rockne League. 
Next Sunday, seven more games are scheduled with the key contest matching Morris­sey and Dillon for the Parseg­hian League lead. 

page 12 
Drury makes mark in first year with Irish 
With the NFL strike, there is a possibility that the television networks would want to move 
WEAR A RED 
some college games to fill the 
(
void left by the lack of NFL ac­tion, but not in ths case. 
(
RIBBON
"No, it's a misprint," Notre Dame associate sports infor­mation director John Heisler said Tuesday. "It's our mis­
Show your solidarity with the 
take. The schedules were 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987
The Observer 

• 
I • 
··-v·· 
I 
I!Jr;: 
.~.11 
~ ·,d 

Freshman Mike Drury looks for the ball In soccer The Observer I Suzanne Poch Into action tonight against Illinois State. 
action against Indiana. The Irish are 7-o heading 
Stanford, Alumni kickoff IH soccer action 
By ROB PIERCE Sports Writer 
This past weekend saw the beginning of the interhall soc­cer season, with the featured game being the Sunday after­noon matchup between the Stanford Studs and the Alumni Dogs of the Western European division. 
Most of the match was a de­fensive struggle, as the teams battled to a scoreless tie with time running out. Then, with two minutes remaining in the game, Stanford sophomore Jim Greco took a pass from junior Tom Zibelli and booted the gamewinner into the open net. Zibelli beat the Alumni defense and fed Greco, who was sweep­ing in unmarked from his left wing spot, for the tap-in and a 1-0 victory. 
"Both teams played with tre­mendous effort and poise," said Alumni freshman sweeper Andy Schlidt. "But Stanford's ability to capitalize on offen­sive opportunities was the deciding factor. They deserve credit for manufacturing a win." 
But the real hero for Stanford was senior goalkeeper John Sheehan, who displayed his tal­ents in two sports Sunday. Fresh off a two-touchdown per­formance in Stanford's football before the soccer game, Sheehan overcame a sluggish start by his defense to register the shutout. 
"The credit should go to the defense," said Sheehan. "They did not allow Alumni many good opportunities. I didn't have to make too many saves." 
Sophomore goalie Bill Fitzpatrick was also a standout for the Alumni team. Fitzpatrick, with support from Schlidt and senior stopper John Boroski, held Stanford score­less until the breakdown that led to the lone goal. 

The turning point in the con­test seemed to come at the five­minute mark, when Stanford returned its starters to the lineup. 
"It was in our game plan to rest our starters so that they would be fresh for the last five minutes," said Greco. "Ap­parently, it paid off." 
"We lacked a team concept and weren't completely into the game until we fell behind," said Alumni co-captain Bingo Hanley. "By then, it was too late. We'll be better prepared for our next game." 
Nine other games were 
NOW AVAILABLE AT· 
BUY 
OBSiRVER 
CLASSIFIEDS 
oppressed of South Africa. Wear a red ribbon during Monk's Inauguration today. 
slated for the weekend. Also in the Western European divi­sion, Zahm A beat St. Ed's, 3-2, behind two goals by freshman Kevin Keeley, and Pangborn won by forfeit over Grace B. 
In the North American divi­sion, Sorin routed Morrissey B, 6-0, F1sher blanked Keenan White, 2-0, on goals by junior Tom Schiesser and senior Tom Cramer, and Flanner F.C. defeated Cavanaugh by forfeit. 
In the South American divi­sion, the Law School shut out Zahm B, 3-0; and Grace A edged Holy Cross B, 2-1, on a pair of goals by junior Jim Grace. 
And finally, in the European division, Garabaldi's Men topped Grace A2, 3-2 in over­time, and Holy Cross A beat the O.C. Spleiphs, 2-1. 


*Hair *Tanning *Make up *Nails 

IMAGE CONSULTANTS 
$5.00 off with student 10 
Ironwood at Edison across from 7-11 234-6767 

l 
I 
By PETE SKIKO) Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team takes on the Illinois State Red­birds tonight at Krause Memorial Stadium, and the Irish couldn't have any more momentum heading into the 
7:00 contest. 
The Irish are 7-0-0 thus far, and have come up with an im­pressive win against the highly-ranked Indiana Hoosiers to prove that the record is not a fluke. But Head Coach Dennis Grace isn't so sure that the Irish are playing as well as their undefeated status indicates. 

l \ 
"Well, we seem to be playing with a lot of confidence," said Grace, in his fourth year as the Irish mentor. "Maybe too much confidence. I didn't feel that we played up to our abili­ties either Friday or Sunday (in victories over Michigan State and Northwestern), mainly be­cause a lot of guys aren't playing the full 90 minutes. This isn't an hour game or a 45 minute game -you've got to go all out the whole time. I'm not sure we're doing that yet." 
One player that will surely see action tonight is a fresh­man who has raised a lot of eyebrows early in the season. He is Mike Drury, and he is con­sidered by many to be the heir apparent at sWeeper to senior Steve Lowney, who completes a brilliant four-year career at that position this season. Drury draws raves from his coach. 
"Mike is quickly learning one of the most difficult positions in the game, the sweeper posi­tion," said Grace. "He is ex­tremely bright and doesn't have to be told things twice. He picks up the little things and is becoming extremely reliable. 
"As a sweeper, you've got to be able to communicate with team members constantly throughout the game and keep track of a lot of things as well as play your position. Mike, so far, has done everything we've asked." 
Drury hasn't started a game yet, but he plays more than a 
Special to The Observer 
A misprint on Notre Dame football schedules and the cur­rent NFL players strike have combined to create confusion about this Saturday's game at Purdue. 
The misprinted schedules say that the Irish and Boiler­makers play September 27, which is Sunday, not Septem­ber 26, the actual day of the game. 
lot of the starters. Grace likes to start Lowney at sweeper, and then insert Drury early in the game, moving Lowney to right midfield. Grace explains this tactic. 
"We like to get settled early in the game with Steve at sweeper," said Grace. "Because of Steve's great ver­satility, I then feel extremely confident moving him to an­other spot where he'll be effec­tive and stick Mike at his native position. Mike understands why we're doing it and knows that, for now, that's best for the team. 
Drury, a Westfield, New Jer­sey native, has obviously ad­justed very well to the college game, but concedes that there are some big differences be­tween the two styles of play. 
"In college, they mark a lot tighter," said Drury. "In high school, the play was a little more offensive; we didn't ex­actly play a zone, but we cer­tainly didn't stick to guys as much as we do here. 
"When I visited the school and talked to the coaches, I knew Notre Dame soccer was going to be committed to win­ning, but I wasn't sure if being committed was going to be enough. After I was here for just a few days, I knew that a lot of commitment wasn't all we had." 
Grace and Mike's team­
mates have shown Drury the 
ropes on the team and, al­
though he admits it was diffi­
cult at first, Drury appreciates 
the people that surround him 
on the Irish. 
"It wasn't exactly a walk in 
the park," said Drury, regard­
ing his first two weeks of be­
coming oriented on the squad. 
"There were a lot of new ad­
justments, but Coach Grace 
and the whole team have been 
very patient and supportive so 
far. I really can't be too much 
happier with my situation on 
the team this year, especially 
because I'm already looking 
forward to the next three." 
printed in advance. It's just ironic how things worked out." 
Heisler reconfirmed the po­sition that Notre Dame would not want to move its home games but that it did not have complete control in regards to road games. 
Kickoff Saturday is slated for 
11:30 EST. The game will be broadcast as part of the Big Ten Conference's syndicated package.. 
Irish football Saturday 




Wednesday, September 23, 1987 The Observer page 13 

The Student Union Board wishes Father Malloy the best of luck on his inauguration day. 
( 

We're looking forward to working with you. 
Farley 
continued from page 16 
tion pass fell incomplete. 
Both of last year's women's 
interhall finalists opened the 
season with convincing wins 
Sunday night. 
Enthusiasm keyed Farley and BP as they rolled over their opponents by identical scores of 22-0. 
Defending champion Farley 
scored early and never looked 
back in defeating PW. After an 
aggressive 3-4 defense held the 
PW offense in check on the 
opening series, Farley's Tami 
Goodwin returned the ensuing 
punt 67 yards for the game's 
first score. 
PW kept the game tight early 
Support the 
WANTr:D 
USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
f."RLY AM OR CV~NINOS 
on with some great penetration from its defensive line. Succes­sive sacks of Farley quarter­back Elliott forced offensive coach Greg Rowe to switch to an option running attack. 
"The offensive line lacked aggressiveness early," said Rowe, "but toughened up as the game went on." 
Late in the first half the im­provement really began to show as the offensive line gave Elliott time to throw. The Far­ley quarterback responded by going 4-5 during a 60-yard scoring drive. 
Elliot capped of the drive by hitting captain Karen Lynch in the back of the end zone on 4th and goal. 
"I called an audible at the line," said Elliott. We were 

Sutcliffe pitches Cubs past Mets 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Rick Sutcliffe, pitching with three days' rest for just the third time this season, became the National League's first 18-game winner and Dave Martinez singled home the tie-breaking run with two out in the seventh inning Tuesday, leading the Chicago Cubs to a 6-2 victory over the going to run right, but when I saw three defensive lineman on the right side, I decided to go with the pass." 
In the second half, PW showed signs of a comeback. Some good special teams play by Sara Voigt put the PW of­fense in good position. PW quarterback Kathy Kronenberger teamed up with the versatile Colleen Kretz for gains both through the air and on the ground. But just as things began to look good, penalties and some fine Farley defense kept the shutout intact. 
"We had a real team effort defensively," said Farley coach Andy Baker. "Espe­cially linebackers Kristine Bonn and Kathleen Hannon. Both contained very well 
New York Mets. 
Sutcliffe, 18-8, who had a two­run single in Chicago's three­run eighth, allowed eight hits as the last-place Cubs dropped the second-place Mets three games behind St. Louis in the National League East. The Cardinals played a night game in St. Louis against the Phillies. 
With the score tied 2-2, Jody Davis opened the Cubs' seventh with a single, the fifth hit off Mets starter David Cone, 5-5. After Shawon Dunston struck out, Sutcliffe sacrificed pinch runner Chico Walker to second and he scored easily when Mar­tinez lined a 3-1 pitch into cen­ter field. 
The Cubs wrapped it up in the eighth against Mets relief aces Roger McDowell and Jesse Orosco. 
New York's Kevin McReynolds had tied the score 2-2 with one out in the top of the sixth with his 26th homer, tying his career high. 

BEACON BOWL BAR & RESTAURANT WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after 9:00pm & All day Saturday & Sunday. 
NDIST. MARY'S STUDENT DISCOUNT RATES 4210 Lincolnway West 2..)4-4167 
tonight,  and  Kristine  came  
through  with  a  big intercep­ 
tion."  

With three minutes remain­ing, Elliot finished the scoring on a 46-yard run to secure the victory. 
In the night's opening game, BP's Carolyn Burke scored two touchdowns, including a game opening kickoff return, in leading BP to its victory over Walsh. 
BP quarterback Teresa Coombs connected with Burke and running back Angi Wim­mer on numerous occasions to keep BP drives alive. 
A swarming BP defense, known as the BP Blitz, com­bined with a penalty-prone Walsh offense to give BP great 
Cardinals 3, Phillies 2 
ST. LOUIS-Vince Coleman singled and tripled and scored two runs, leading St. Louis to a 3-2 victory over the Philadel­phia Phillies Tuesday night that extended the Cardinals' lead to 3 112 games in the Na­tional League East. 
By winning, St. Louis trimmed its magic number for winning the division to nine over New York and Montreal. The Cardinals lead the Mets by 3 112 and Montreal, which has played one fewer game than New York, by four. 
Danny Cox, 10-8, pitched a five-hitter, striking out six and walking four for his first vic­tory in six starts since Aug. 23. Cox went 7 2-3 innings before Todd Worrell came on for his 32nd save. 
Coleman, marking his 26th birthday, singled and stole his 103rd base of the year to open the first. 
field postion throughout the 
gam~::. 
Coombs teamed up with Mar­garet Johnson for two conver­sions to account for the final score. 
In other action, Pasquerilla East showed why it is consid­ered a favorite this year by crushing Howard 28-0 at Car­tier Field. In Sunday's final game, Lyons completed a night of shutouts by defeating Lewis 14-0. Contributing to Lyons' vic­tory were Cari Martinez with two interceptions and Robin McHugh, termed "the fastest tailback in the league," by Lyons captain Rachel McCaf­fery. 
Women's interhall action picks up again Thursday, when Walsh faces Badin at 8 P.M. 
Reds 5, Padres 3 

CINCINNATI-Rookie Terry McGriff ended an 0-for-14 slump with a two-run single that broke a 2-2 tie and helped the Cincinnati Reds to a 5-3 vic­tory over San Diego Tuesday night. 
Padres catcher Benito San­tiago singled in the fourth in­ning, setting a modern Na­tional League record for rookies by hitting in 24 straight games. 
McGriff's single keyed a four-run rally in the fifth and was his first game-winning RBI. Kal Daniels walked leading off against starter Mark Grant, 7-8, but was picked off first. Eric Davis and Dave Parker also walked and Buddy Bell doubled in Davis. 
Nick Esasky was intention­ally walked and McGriff sin­gled home Parker and Bell. Barry Larkin singled in the final run. 
Expos 4, Pirates 3 

MONTREAL-Mitch Webster had two hits, including a homer, and scored twice to help Pascual Perez win his fifth straight game as the Montreal Expos beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 4-3 Tuesday night. 
Perez, 5-0 since being recalled from the minor leagues, gave up nine hits in eight innings. Bob McClure got one out in the ninth, then Tim Burke earned his 15th save by getting the final two outs. 
The victory moved Montreal within .003 points of second­place New York in the NL east race and 3 112 games behind first-place St. Louis, which was playing Philadelphia. 
r 
\ page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1987
' 
Former Irish tight end 
\ 
l 
~ 
l I 
I 
~ 
1\ 
!\ 
l 
l 
l
\ 
l 
l 
l 
~. i 
\, 


Photo courtesy Miami Public Relations Dept. 
Former Irish tight end Joel Williams has earned a spot on the Miami Dolphins' roster, but the NFL player's strike may hurt his chances of staying In the pros. See story at right. 
Items 
continued from page 16 
With two big wins over 
nationally-ranked foes in con­
secutive weeks, the Irish have 
every reason to hold their 
heads high and enjoy the recent 
No. 8 ranking by the Associated 
Press. 
But not for too long. Although 
Purdue certainly is struggling, 
the Boilermakers will be up for 
their big chance to knock off 
now-mighty-again Notre 
Dame, especially at home. 
With a much-improved Pit­tsburgh team looming around the corner, it is tempting to look past this weekend and Purdue. But the Irish will have two weeks to prepare for the Panthers after Saturday, with an off-day on October 3. 
The Boilermakers are hungry for a win, feel a strong rivalry with Notre Dame and certainly whatever talent is there will be well-coached with former Texas mentor Fred Akers at the helm. The Irish can not afford to look past Purdue, Navy, or any team on the schedule if the present hopes for a major bowl bid are going to come to fruition. 
SObering
Advice . ~ 
can~.)
alife , ­
/. 
....
..­

Williams makes grade in Miami 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
An eighth-round draft pick in the NFL is often a longshot to make the club. But for former Notre Dame tight end Joel Wil­liams, the horse came in. The Miami Dolphins made Wil­liams the 210th overall pick in last spring's draft, and Wil­liams has made the most of his opportunity, helped by the fact that Dan Johnson, a five-year veteran back up tight end for the Dolphins, was placed on in­jured reserve. 
"It was a challenge to see if I could play and perform at this level," Williams said Friday by phone. "I didn't worry about it. I just wanted to go out and show what I've learned. 
"Playing in the NFL has al­ways been a dream, a goal, of mine." 
But with the NFL players on strike, Williams' dream may be in trouble. 
"It's going to hurt," Williams said before the strike. "There's no doubt about it. I want to make progress and get the feel of things more." Should the players strike drag on, Wil­liams could be in a precarious position. That would allow Johnson the time to heal and endanger Williams' chances of sticking with the team. 
"It could be a possibilty," said Dolphins special teams and tight ends coach Mike Wes­thoff. "It's a very realistic sit­uation. I hope there's a chance of an expanded roster. Then we 
God Bless You! 
Love, our Favorite Surfers 

could carry three tight ends. In one aspect, the strike could hurt him. In another, it might help him." 
Williams has caught on with the Dolphins largely because of his blocking ability, which has earned him a spot on special teams. But this has been a big 
Joel Williams 

adjustment for the native of Pittsburgh who hasn't played on special teams since high school. 
"On special teams you have to fly around a lot and just let loose," said Williams. "But of­fensive linemen aren't sup­posed to let loose. It's a big ad­justment. It's hard for any rookie. In order to play, you have to play special teams." 
As would be expected, there are areas where Williams is fine, but others where he needs work. 
"He's involved with kickoffs, kick returns, punts and punt returns," Westhoff said. "His blocking on punts and returns is fine,-but at this point his coverage is only mediocre. But you have to remember he hasn't done this since high school, maybe since his sopho­more year." 
While at Notre Dame, Wil­liams was labelled by many as a tight end who couldn't catch. 
"He's worked at it," Wes­thoff said. "He's run through some ball drills. We've worked on him. 
"But he didn't win a place on the team by default. He earned it." 
As would be expected, catch­ing the passes of the NFL's all­time top-ranked passer, Dan Marino, has to be tough. 
"He's so quick," Williams said of Marino. "He's a great timing quarterback. You turn around, and the ball is there. The first few times, I turned around and the ball hit me in the head. He's so accurate." 



Center Street Blues 
care 

September 
Entertainment Calendar 
Wind \I Cit \I Jazz TUE WedM,dll\1 ThOJnde\1 FRI 
Thursday:  DJ's: Tom Tisa  
8:00-1:00  Rick Reuter  
Friday:  DJ's: Tom Sloan  
8:00-2:00  Bryan Reo  
Saturday:  Battle of the campus  
8:00-2:00  bands at 9:00 p.m.  

Blank Generation Freudian Slip Monarch and others All you can eat 
Sunday: TACO BAR 
12:00-6:00 only $2.00 
...­



Wednesday, September 23, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
HUH 1 WHA--.~  WHY, 7H€  
111/S CAN'T 1% HI!P~r/IN&...  m /!IIICK !PM£ IN 111€  WHOlE THIN&wAs vvsr  
7HIS CIIN'f Be HllffeNIN&...  Mt:AfJOW./  II PK6/IM /!  
CliNT.  
CliNT..  
CAtv 'f...  
\  

10 a.m.: Inauguration Day Mass celebrated by Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. in the Joyce ACC Arena. Rev. Thomas Oddo, C.S.C., President of the University of Portland (Oregon) will give the homily. · 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 2:30p.m.: Academic procession from the Mall of the Hesburgh Library to the 
ACC for the inaugural academic convocation. 
3 p.m.: Inaugural Academic Convocation begins. 
6:45p.m. -8:00p.m.: SMC Sexuality Education Council Lecture, "Things That Can Help Your Body," by Ellyn Stecker, M.D., Family Practioner in South Bend, 
Stapleton Lounge. 7 p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Illinois State, Cartier Field. 7 p.m.: Volleyball SMC vs. Goshen College, Angela Athletic Facility. 
7: 15 -8 p.m.: Big Brothers-Big Sisters Orientation Meeting, Center for Social Concerns Coffee room. Last chance for sophomores. 
9 p.m.: Pax Christi-Notre Dame sponsored film, "Gods of Metal" and discus­sion, Lyons Hall Chapel. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Picnic on South Quad  Turkey Cutlets  
Eggplant Parmesan  
Fetticini Alfredo  
Deli Bar  

58 Yes -! 
59 Rose or 
Fountain 60 Hamilton bills 61 Fixed time
Focus On 
62 Vicinity 
DOWN
America's 
1 Ceiling sliding 
door 2 Jot 3 Key
Fut 
4 Czar: abbr. 5 Flavors 6 Spartan serf 7 Sand ridges 8 Honky-­
--~~ 

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ACROSS 1 Current 5 Used a gun 9 Hair style 
13 Space 14 Fables man 16 Shut the door 
noisily 17 Up above 18 Level 19 Smoky air 20 Golf goal 21 Bell's cousin 23 Certain genre 25 Santa -, 
Calif. 26 Bridges 27 Process paper 32 Particle 33 Observes Lent 34 Yoko ­35 "Citizen -" 36 Impetuous 37 Periods 38 Glaciarium 
stuff 39 Minor role 40 Ward off 41 Saw-edged 43 Obese 44 Grampus 45 Disposed 46 Ask someone 
to leave 51 Self-esteem 54 Anticipation 55 Live 56 WWI plane 57 Utility 
customer 


'"­

©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
9 Depth charge 10 Antiaircraft 
fire 11 Tear down 12 Heb. measure 15 Imposition 21 Moist 22 Bills 24 Galt 26 Gap 27 Packed 28 Concerning 29 Porter or tiler 30 Access 31 Optimistic 32 Slaloms 33 Reputation 36 Deck covers 37 Mild oath 39 Transport 40 Below average 42 Coxswain's 
crew 43 For the time 47 Drench down 52 Fence door 
being 48 --door policy 53 Theaters of 45 Riddle 49 Way out old 46 Door position SO Urgent 56 Resort 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Beernuts 

IJiiAT t'l> UK£ TO STf(fSS 1VIY'.Y /fSIJ)f 
THANK YOU... Ull .. . 
fROM TH[ FOI?.HALIT!E5 

ALL tF >OU .. . 
/S.. \
I 
... TI-IAT f'1Y TfNIJR[ AS f'f<£51D£NT IJ(j)[..b t1£AN N6THIM:r IJtrHour THE Svlf()R_r ANI> /NM Of y~ mE rrvMNT5. 
l 
Mark Williams 
ANP BY rH[ IJA~ TIIANK5 fOR COMIN(r, /..AVR.I[ 
AN{) Pflr ~ 
: 
~~·)
...;. I 

The committee to decide whether spawning should be taught In school. 
THE 

iM0NI;Y 
Wednesday & 
PIT
Thursday 
.­
ARICHARD BENJAMIN F•lm 

7, 9, 11 pm 
$2.00 

Engineering Auditorium 

I,.. 
l ~ 
i! 
\' 
I 
f 
I 
\
I 
I ' I 
L 
~ l
fi 
·'
·t 
f;} 
t
I 
i 
l;I l 
11 
j ~ 

\: •'•­
' 
\i 
I 
l< 
): 
)! 
)1,~ 
q
;) 
.~ l 
.... 
1\ 
I 
I. 
Ji 
i ~\ 
Sports 
Wednesday, September 23, 1987 

PW surprises BP in women's IH action 
By JEFF HEILERT fensive possessions, so offen­Sports Writer sively I can't complain. We did have problems tackling 
Whoever said that pre­tonight. The girls are going to season rankings are worthless have to bounce back next week. might have been talking about One loss doesn't put us out of the 1987 women's interhall foot­it." ball season. In the night's other action, 
An underated Pasquerilla Farley outlasted Pasquerilla West team stunned heavily East in a defensive struggle to favored Breen-Phillips last post its second victory by a night by a score of 18-12 in six score of 8-0. overtimes. On the first possession, Far­
The PW defense was able to ley quarterback Carol Elliot hit hold BP at the one yard line to Kara England over the middle pull off the upset. for ten yards and the game's Jill Bodensteiner caught a ten only score. 
yard touchdown reception late With less than two minutes in the game to put PW up 12-6, left in the game, PE threatened and defensive end Kathy to force a another overtime 
The Qbeelver I Suzanne Poch 

Moran recorded several key game when they marched to
Pasquerllta West quarterback Carol Elliot looks Women'slnterhall action kicked off this weekend. 

sacks down the stretch in hel­the Farley 29. Two consecutive
to ga1n some yardage against the Farley defense. 

ping PW even its record at 1-1. off-sides penalties, however, "Give PW credit," said BP pushed them back to the 39 coach Dan Deboar. "They before a last second despera­played a great game. We
Morrissey, Flanner in interhall football 

scored on two of our three of-see FARLEY, page 13 By TIM SULLIVAN Jim Kelly. "We won't be minutes to go in the game. Sports Writer making those mistakes as the Golonka decided to go deep, season goes on." and Gallivan fired down the The Titans clashed. The inability to move the ball right sideline for Rick PurcelL The Big Guys fought to the was the key to the game. Flanner junior Dave Kelly, wire. Despite an effective option play however, was step for step with But this battle is far from which continually sprung Kelly Purcell and made the intercep­over. for good gains, Flanner's of­tion. Kelly ran the ball back In men's interhall football fense was held up by the Mor­into Morrissey territory, and 
action Saturday, perennial rissey defensive line and its Flanner prepared to strike. powers Morrissey and Flanner own mistakes. Jim Kelly sandwiched two met in a game which was The Morrissey defensive strong runs around an incom­
predicted to be the game of the line, comprised of Tom plete pass, and the referees regular season. Fredericks, Tom King, Pete brought out the chains for a Which team would grab the Dumon and John Holmgren, measurement -Kelly was just
early lead in the standings? was consistently in the Flanner short. On fourth and inches Who would be the favorite in backfield pressuring QB Pete Holmgren penetrated the Flan­the still distant playoffs? Parton. The two ends, King and ner backfield and made the Well, Saturday's action of­Holmgren, played particularly tackle. Morissey had the ball 
fered absolutely no answers to well. for one last chance. those questions as the two Morrissey had a tough time With the ball deep in his own 
teams battled to a 0-0 tie. moving the ball as well. Its of­territory and less than a minute Surprisingly, both of these fense, keyed more toward the remaining, Gallivan againusually precise teams were ex­passing game, seemed a step called for a deep pass play to tremely sloppy. In fact, Flan­or two off throughout the game. Purcell. True to form, Dave ner fumbled four times, and The Manorites had the ball Kelly raced back and againMorrissey quarterback Dave eight times during the game, made the interception to seal 
Gallivan was intercepted three but ran more than four plays the final score. times, including two in the last on only two possessions. "We lacked that killer instict," two minutes of the game. The game finally became ex­said Jim Kelly of his team's :,.:·"' ' '• .~ 
"We had three fumbled citing in the closing minutes. failure to score when it had the The Observer I Rob Regovich snaps, and we were just After two ineffective posses­chance. "The last two years 
Men's lnterhall football action began with two powerful teams, Flen­
making concentration errors,'' sions in the second half, Mor­

ner and Morrluey, leading the way. Tim Sullivan details the action 
noted Flanner player-coach rissey got the ball with two see TIE, page 11 
at right. 


Special teams key to Irish victory 
"OK, you guys on offense move to the left and books aren't clear, but that may be the first time booming punts, averaging 47 yards a kick over eight the defensive players go to the right. The rest of that has been done in college football. Ever. punts. you, well, you're in a special category. · Placekicker Ted Gradel kicked two field goals in You're ... uh... the special team. Yeah, that's the But Tim Brown was not alone in this awe-inspiring three attempts for the second straight game and ticket. The special team." feat, and he'll be the first to say so. On the first put one kickoff in the end zone to gain more confi­
And in this manner, special teams were invented. return, he followed an organized wall of blockers dence in a job he earned late in fall practice. Be­Or at least it was something like that. to break the pack and was home-free after Rod tween Gradel and Phelan, the Irish kicking game 
The offense gets the glory and is assigned the is steadily becoming a consistent aspect of Notre task of scoring points. The defense gets to hit people Dame's game, rather than the weak link that many and prevent the opposition from scoring. The spe­Brian 
thought it would be with the graduation of John cial teams, well, they are the transition guys. Carney and Dan Sorensen. 
But, as we were so wonderfully shown on Satur­O'Gara Kickoff and punt coverage was also an important day night, the special teams can indeed be quite factor in keeping Michigan State in their own ter­important. Kicker Ted Gradel, punt-returner ex­ritory. The Spartans averaged ten yards per return 
Irish Items

traordinaire Tim Brown and an opening-second on the day, while the Irish averaged over 22. Backup safety accounted for 23 of Notre Dame's 31 points center Tim Grunhard hustled downfield to down in the game. West's block took out Michigan State's punter, who one of Phelan's punts at the two-yard line, setting 
by the way is billed as an All-America candidate. 'JP a Michigan State safety. 
After seeing Brown return two kickoffs for touch­The second touchdown return came despite a punt­Saturday's victory showed just how much special­downs and one long punt return against USC last blocking attempt of the Irish, which left Brown all team play counts in the game of football. Though season, Notre Dame fans have been waiting to see alone to juke and dodge eleven Spartans. He did. they are on the field less than the offense or defense, Brown break the big one. We knew it would happen, Brown's heroics were not the only bright spots special teams have the opportunity to break open it was just a matter of when. After he took back for Notre Dame special teams Saturday, however. a game, and the Irish did just that in the 31-8 thrash­one punt for a TD in Saturday's first quarter, the The Irish defense was relentless in the near­ing of the Spartans. By putting points on the board question was no longer when but how many? One shutout and has proven to Notre Dame friends and and keeping the Michigan State offense from begin­was not good enough for Brown, now a leading can­foes alike that this group of "No-Names" can play. ning their drives in good field position, the Notre didate for the Heisman Trophy. No, he had to go Before they had their way with Lorenzo White and Dame special team play was just that -special. ahead and set all sorts of records by taking back Bobby McCallister, however, punter Vince Phelan two punts for TDs. Back-to-back even. The record was putting the Spartans in poor field position with see ITEMS, page 14 
~------------------------------------------­
-

The Observer I Paul Oeschger 

By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
and CARA ANTHONY 
Projects Staff 
"Never eat dinner alone." 
This is the advice that Father Edward Malloy, University president and Holy Cross priest, gives to incoming stu­dents. "Meals are a social time. In a new environment, there's a sense of both wonder­ment and loneliness, and the loneliness is accentuated when you go to a social time and eat by yourself," said Malloy. "Eating with other people con­veys a sense of family." 
Malloy's sense of family ex­tends to the Notre Dame com­munity as well. "I really see the inauguration as a multiple family celebration. It's the first time the members of my im­mediate family, my distant relatives and my friends from different times in my life will all be in the same place at the same time." 
Malloy's inauguration will the first formal inauguration of a University president at Notre Dame. "It's the first time we've done it. We're setting a precedent in everything we do," said Malloy. "The ceremonies are a chance to show off the University to guests from other academic in­stitutions and the Church, and other people who have not had the occasion perhaps to see Notre Dame. It will be a col­lective showing." 
The inauguration ceremonies today are merely a formality, as Malloy actually took office on June 1 of this year. Malloy has settled in well, overcoming challenges as they arise, and making plans for several new projects. "The job's going fine, except for some tragedies that have struck the campus recently. People have been working well together, and I'm very grateful 
to the administration and 
various units of the administra­
tion," said Malloy. _ 
Malloy said he is looking for­
ward to the results of some 
projects, including several 
task forces similar to the com­
mittee which produced the 
recent recommendations on 
drunk driving. "We're ex­
perimenting with a lot of new 
things" to encourage commu­
nity participation in Unversity 
life and decisions, said Malloy. 
"They (the task forces) make 
everyone feel their presence 
makes a difference." 
Malloy sees the Presidency as a unifying role, combining diverse aspects into a complete picture. "I think the primary duty of the President is to sus­tain a vision of common enter­prise, and what we're about, here at the University," said Malloy. "This means that what I do during the course of a week has tremendous variety-every day I answer correspondence, host meetings, greet visitors, and do interviews." 
"In some ways I am repre­sentative of the University as a whole. I need to encourage, reward, and occasionally con­front people who are respon­sible for every aspect of Uni­versity life. I inform various local community clubs, alumni council, and student govern­ments," said Malloy. "I don't have to do it all, but I need to be aware of what's going on." 
Although Malloy foresees a busy schedule requiring him to travel occasionally, he plans to keep in touch with campus life. "I think it's important t~at people think I'm basically pres­ent. I will have to travel, but that's not a sign I'll be gone for huge periods of time," said Malloy. 
Malloy saw several problems confronting the University. "I 
see MALLOY Inside 
Inaugural committee 
relying. on students 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Jones said that plans had Projects Manager been made for up to 10,000 students to attend at least 
Plans for today's in­part of the inauguralaugural ceremonies are ceremonies. More than 300 based on large numbers of student volunteers are students attending, said working at various func­Sister John Miriam Jones, tions, as well as 60 student associate provost and a representatives marching in member of the Inaugural the Academic Procession. Committee. Tracy Schindele, one of 
the student volunteers, said"Since we began planning she was "excited about it.
in April, our whole emphasis We'll get to meet lots of thehas been on the hope that people coming." 
large numbers of students 
Schindele said studentswill attend," Jones said. 
were asked to volunteer to 
"The students are as be ushers, program dis­much a part of this as the tributors, hosts and hos-faculty or anybody else." tesses, and guides. I 
_I

-----------------~--·-·----·-------------­
Schedule of events 
Observer Staff Report 

10:00 a.m. Inaugural Mass at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, celebrated by University President Father Edward Malloy. Father Thomas Oddo, president of the University of Oregon, will preach. 
11.45 a.m. Inaugural Luncheon at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Admission by ticket only. 
2:30 p.m. Academic Procession from the mall of the Hesburgh Library (near the reflecting pool) to the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Delegates from many universities and academic societies will also attend. Students are asked to avoid Juniper Road and the Library mall at this time. -i 
3:00p.m. Academic Convocation at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Students are asked to enter through Gate 10. 
4:30p.m. Reception in the Hesburgh Library mall. Admission by ticket only. 
5:00p.m. Student picnic on South Quad. Father Malloy will receive an award from the student 
body. 

INAUGURAL SPECIAL SECTION 


By CARA ANTHONY 
Projects staff 
Father Edward Malloy is not only the president of Notre Dame University, but he is also a Holy Cross priest. He con­tinues the history of the Con­gregation of the Holy Cross that is inseparable from the history of Notre Dame. 
The Congregation of the Holy Cross, or Congregatio a Sancta Cruce, was formed in the early 19th century when the Brothers of St. Joseph, a group of priests and brothers founded in 1820, were combined with a group of religious women, the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Their motto is "Spes Unica"-"our only hope is the Cross". 
The order's mother house is in France, while its general ad­ministration is in Rome. Other apostolates are located in Chile, Africa, and Bangladesh. But, "Notre Dame is clearly the most important apostolate of our community," said Fa­ther Daniel Jenky, Superior of the Holy Cross Order. The Holy Cross community at Notre Dame is relatively small but, continues to attract new voca­tions, two-thirds of which are Notre Dame alumni. 
The ideal of the Holy Cross community as educators, said Jenky, is simply to give Notre Dame students "the highest quality of education they can get in the world ... to have a premier university where an atmosphere of faith and a com­mitment to Christ is still at the heart of it." 
Much has changed since Fa­ther Sorin founded the Univer­sity in 1841. The University is no longer a tiny mission in the wilderness of Indiana, but a thriving, growing Catholic in~ stitution. According to Jenky, one of the greatest changes will be Notre Dame's growing role as a center for research and publication. Holy Cross admin­istration will respond by giving its faculty members "the space and the time to develop as scholars," thus maintaining high academic standards, ac­cording to J enky. 
Religious faculty will con­tinue to live in residence halls, but will not be assigned as rec­tors or have specific duties at their respective residences. 
The Holy Cross community took a major step in 1967, when it decided to give University control to a predominantly lay board of trustees. For 125 years the Congregation of the Holy Cross had owned the Indiana province, and the transition was, as Jenky said, "a free gift... a multimillion dollar change in governance." Holy Cross fathers switched from owners to employees, and the change was not always smooth. 
Despite these changes, Holy Cross priests and brothers are still vital to the University. Al­most 100 members of the order serve as faculty or deal in stu­dent affairs. Half of the Univer­sity Board of Trustees are Holy Cross fathers, as is the Univer­sity President. "One of the ways that Notre Dame can stay Catholic and stay close to its roots would be to always have a priest as president of the In­diana province," said Jenky. 

Malloy 
continued from front page 
think there's a need to diversify the stu­dent body in terms of minority repre­sentation," said Malloy. "We also need to work hard on male-female interac­tion. We have to do better job of pre­paring people for their future life re­sponsibilities, like marriage and raising a family." 
Ceremon part of p1 
Observer Staff Report 
To go along with the first for­mal inauguration of a president at Notre Dame, the Inaugural Committee has commissioned a ceremonial mace and medal to be made for formal Univer­sity events. 
"Every university is sup­posed to have a mace," said Associate Provost Sister John Miriam Jones, a member of the committee. 
The mace is a symbol of au­thority and is a part of the tradition of most universities, Jones added. 

Malloy sees "all kinds of changes the~ coming" for today's students. "There sors is always something happening on M< campus. In March, we'll have many dentl task force reports coming out. Their sincE recommendations will precipitate reac­"the tions." Malloy also spoke of the contin­have ued construction at Notre Dame, ferer including the two new dormitories and has< a proposed classroom building. viom 
"We will continue to explore in the dent! academic fields," added Malloy. one< "There are always new professors, and to th1 
................................................... 
What are students doing today? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Kathy Ellis Photos by Jim Carroll 

"We're probably going to do the ac­tivities planned. The night before is a different story, let's not talk about that. Let's just say we'll be in the spirit of the inauguration." 
Malini Chablani Freshman Farley Hall 


.... 
"I don't know guys, what are we 
doing?" 

Mike Manning Sophomore Keenan Hall 
"I plan on going to all the events. I'm glad we have the day off." 
Bill Bentley Junior Grace Hall 

"We have school that day. I'm going to my classes, you can put that in the Observer." 
Kristen Swanson Freshman Regina South 

"Bum around probably. I'll prob­ably go to the main stuff. I'll play some football if I can, maybe some baseball." 
Vince Pellegrini Sophomore Dillon Hall 
"I'm in the procession because I'm 
the president of P.E." 

Amy Rochon Junior Pasquerilla East 



"I'm waitressing at the special reception Tuesday." 
Kelly Harris ­Senior Farley Hall 


"I wouldn't miss this for the world. It's a once in a lifetime event and 
-

who's to say he won't be here for another twenty-five years." 
Ted Czarnecki Senior Morrissey Hall 
President's job

a.m. :1ration Mass 
widely varied 

...... 
By LOWELL FRANCIS 
Projects Staff 
What exactly does the University president do? Is he in charge of everything? 
According to the Notre Dame University Charter, the president is "vested with full and final authority over all matters pertaining to its government, except as limited by the Original Charter and the Statutes and Bylaws of the United States." He is the executive head of the University and "shall be responsible for the General Direction of its affairs." 
Most importantly, the president provides intellec­tual and moral leadership for the university as a whole. ''The primary duty of the president is to sustain a vision of the common enterprise," said University President Father Edward Malloy. The president "needs to encourage, reward, and occasionally con­front people who are responsible for every aspect of University life," he added. 
The president chairs the Academic Council, which decides general academic policies and regulations. He has the power to sign his name to all contracts, deeds and other legal documents that pertain to University business. This can also be done by the executive vice president, the vice president for business affairs or anyone else appointed by the Board of Trustees, the Executive Committee or the president. 
The president is involved with University finances. He makes an annual report to the Boa.rd of Trustees on the "affairs .and general'condition of the Univer­sity." He makes financial reports to the Board of Trus­tees regarding all funds and assets belonging to the University as well as all income and expenditures. He submits an annual budget to the Executive Committee. 
The President is subject to the supervision and di­rection of the Board of Trustees. He makes appoint­ments to the academic and non-academic staffs of the University, designating both duties•and function, ex­cept for offices appointed by the Board of Trustees. 
He maintains a balance between research and edu­cation. While Notre Dame tries to attract distinguished professor&'; it also emphasizes the importance of giving the students the quality education through teaching they are paying for. 

ural Exhibit 
What else does the President do? 
He guards the University's Catholic spirit. Notre

E.) 
Dame has gone from being governed by The Congre­gation of the Holy Cross to government by a board primarily lay in its composition. It is still, however, very much a Catholic University and, through its pres­ident, strives to maintain that attitude. 
Rather than spending his day bogged down in minute 
details, the president can appoint staff to take care of 
trivialities. According to Malloy, "I don't have to do 


•••••••• it all, but I need to be aware of what's going on." 
onial mace 
~pageantry 
The new symbols of office 
will be taken out of storage only ·st for­for official University events, sident such as the presidental in­1gural auguration, said Jones. ;ioned The mace was created by Fa­medal ther Anthony Lauck over a per­niver-iod of two months, Jones said. 
The mace is made of gold­sup­plated bronze, with a walnut' said shaft and an enameled blue
·John 
finial. The medal is also made ·of the of gold-plated bronze, and will hang on a gold chain.
of au­)f the Jones estimated the price for sities, the two symbols of office to be 
about $1,000. 
the granting of tenure to some profes­sors and not others." 
Malloy said that, even though stu­dents haven't changed dramatically since he was a student at Notre Dame, "the pre:;sures of contemporary life have changed. Students come from dif­ferent backgrounds, and Notre Dame has changed as an institution. One ob­vious change is the addition women stu­dents since I went here. I think that's one of the best things that's happened to the University." 
One thing that hasn't changed, according to Malloy, is the high standards expected of Notre Dame students. "I think the University, as a Cath­olic university, has a tradition of certain values regulating the common life. Notre Dame will always be a place where expec­tations for behavior will exceed what might prevail on other campuses." 
"The interesting thing is that, having gone through Notre Dame myself, most of the people I know who com­plained, want their kids to go here. I think that suggests that, in retrospect, the values and expectations seem to make sense." 
Amid all the duites of being president of a major univer­sity, Malloy still finds time to play basketball twice a week, eat meals with students, and meet almost all the freshmen in Sorin Hall, his current residence. "I like the opportu­nity living in Sorin provides for interaction with the students," said Malloy. "It's worked out comfortably for me. I have no intention of leaving." 
And why is he called Monk? 
"In the third grade, there was a neighborhood hero four years older than me. I called him Bunk, and he kept looking for a comeback. " 
-


By KATHY ELLIS 
Projects staff 
From Father Edward Sorin to Father Edward Malloy, the position of Presi­dent of the University of Notre Dame has been held by fifteen men. 
Sorin, the founder of the university and the principal policy maker until his death in 1893, began a line of dreamer­builders who have guided Notre Dame through its development from a small frontier school into a true university. Sorin, using land granted by the bishop of Vincennes, built shops, an infirmary, and a church. His attempts to set up a sister school of Holy Cross nuns even­tually became Saint Mary's College. His name lives on in Sorin Hall, the first dormitory built at any Catholic col­lege with private rooms for male stu­dents. 
Even though Sorin's successor, Fa­ther Patrick Dillon, only headed the university for one year, he laid the foun­dation for the development of a science program. He required intense study programs so Norte Dame graduates could hold jobs and earn a steady in­come. Father Dillon organized a two year commercial course to supplement the six year Arts and Letters program. 
Father William Corby was the only 
man to hold the position of University 
President twice: first from 1866 to 1872, 
then again from 1877 to 1881. After fin­
ancial problems clouded Corby's 
second term, Sorin received a letter 
from Rome stating that Corby held too 
much responsibility, serving as both 
President and Provincial. Corby was 
willing to give up his position as Provin­
cial, but Sorin still wanted a younger 
man in the presidency. 
That man was Father Auguste 
Lemonnier, Corby's vice president and 
Sorin's nephew, who served from 1872 
to 1874. He tightened the requirements 
for graduation, and made the first 
move toward filling the library. He also 
saw an obligation to cultivate artistic 
and intellectual talents in students, 
regardless of the university's poor eco­
nomic state. At age 35, he died after 
breaking down from overwork; and on 
his deathbed said, "Be good to the stu­
dents." 
Lemonnier's vice president, Father 
Patrick Colovin took over from 1874 to 
1877. He was a man of many talents, 
From Sorin . • • 

The Observer I Br1an Mast 
including orator, theologian, dis­ciplinarian, and outstanding teacher. He ran a tight administration and han­dled students justly, but firmly. Colovin was removed when he allowed celebra­tion of Saint Patrick's Day against Sorin's wishes, after which Corby took over for the second time. 
Father Thomas E. Walsh, who served as president for twelve years, was the first Notre Dame student to become president of the University. He was a builder of men, academic departments, and physical facilities. His building pro­grams showed steady growth with the addition of two wings to Brownson and Carroll Halls. A man truly dedicated to Notre Dame, his last words were, at age 40, "I should have liked to labor longer for the University." 
Father Andrew Morrissey became president in 1893 and served until 1905. Although he opposed expanded enroll­ment and facilities because of limited finances, the enrollment of the Univer­sity continued to rise during his term. He built a new athletic facility after the gymnasium burnt down, initiated a central heating plant and railroad, and was constantly revising the univer­sity's curriculum. 

to Hesburgh 

The Observer I Flle photo 

The president who appointed Knute Rockne as head football coach was Fa­ther John W. Cavanaugh. One of his pri­mary concerns was building an exten­sive intramural sports program. Cavanaugh was a public relations man and presented Notre Dame as a na­tional asset, asking not for charity, but for an investment in the public interest. He raised twenty-five thousand dollars for the statue of Father Sorin. Cavanaugh retired at the age of 49, after serving fourteen years as presi­dent. 
Father James Burns was president 
from 1919 to 1922. Despite his reputation 
as a tough, no-nonsense headmaster, 
he allowed George Gipp to return to 
school after the athlete skipped several 
classes. Burns' goal was to tighten up 
the internal structure of the various col­
leges. Because Notre Dame was 
thought of as a national asset, Burns 
wanted a Board of Lay Trustees for the 
administration of all permanent funds. 
Father Matthew Walsh, president 
from 1922 to 1928, faced a very contro­
versial issue during his presidency. The 
Ku Klux Klan planned a parade in South 
Bend and Walsh had the difficult task 
of trying to tame the student's resent­ment, while pursuading the KKK to abandon their plan. Expansion contin­ued under Walsh with·the building of Howard, Morrissey and Lyons halls along with a dining hall and cafeteria. His faculty increased to 175 members, causing the lay teachers to outnumber the religious teachers for the first time. 
The great Notre Dame football stadium was opened during the term of Father Charles O'Donnell. Along with the stadium, the Hurley Com­merce Building and the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering were opened. O'Donnell also commissioned a new university seal during his term. 
The twelfth president, Father John O'Hara is remembered as "John Faith­ful," a name given to him because he was always willing to help students in trouble. His term was from 1934 to 1940, after which he was appointed bishop and military delegate for armed forces. From then on, he was called John Car­dinal O'Hara. He is buried in Sacred Heart Church. 
Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, O'Hara's vice president, was a member of the 1913 football squaq that defeated Army. His administrative decisions were influenced by World War II. In 1940 a Civilian Pilot Training Program was started at Notre Dame, and in 1941 the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps was formed. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh came to Notre Dame and worked for two years as a full time secretary to President John W. Cavanaugh. After being elected to the presidency in 1946, Cavanaugh faced the problem of reconverting the wartime training center back into a ci­vilian university. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, the fif­

teenth university president, guided the 
growth of Notre Dame for thirty-five 
years. During his term, the enrollment 
grew from 4,979 students to 9,600, and 
the University's endowment skyrock­
eted from $9 million to more than $350 
million. 
Writing about Father Sorin and the 
dream he had for Notre Dame, Res­
burgh noted, "The French priest ... 
envisioned an institution of the first 
ranks that explored great issues within 
the context of the Catholic faith ... in 
short, a great Catholic university." Fif­
teen University presidents have helped 
to build that dream into reality. 
Hesburgh keeping busy 
By CAT FRANCIS 
Projects staff 
With Father Edward Mal­loy's inauguration today, a new era begins at Notre Dame. What will happen to the man who preceded Malloy, the leader who steered the Univer­sity for 35 years, Father Theodore Hesburgh? 
Hesburgh, accompanied by Father Edmund P. Joyce, a fel­low retiree, spent the summer in a Skyline touring vehicle, seeing the America he missed while performing his presiden­tial globe-trotting. Together, the two braved the perils of the non-academic world, including the rigors of doing one's own laundry and cooking. 
They returned to South Bend in July to view the Special Olympics, and then went westward on their pilgrimage. After spending time in Alaska, Hesburgh returned to his office in the newly named Hesburgh Library. According to an arti­cle in the South Bend Tribune, at the beginning of next year, Hesburgh and Joyce will serve aboard the Queen Elizabeth cruise ship as chaplains. 
In May 1988, Hesburgh will return to Notre Dame as pres­ident emeritus and will devote time to two of the University's institutions: The Notre Dame Institute for International Peace Studies and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. He is chair for the ad­visory committees of both in­stitutes. 
Hesburgh hopes to devote some time to his favorite activ­ities. After 35 years of travel and work in the University's name, he may finally have time to fish and write. 
Hesburgh, besides being listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the holder of the most honorary degrees in history, has been deeply in­volved in issues concerning civil rights, academic freedom, American relations with Third World countries and peace. Of these, he sees peace as overidingly important. 
Hesburgh served on 14 Presidential appointments during his time as president. He has served on a hundred boards and comm1sswns devoted to ideals such as higher education, business and sci­ence. In 1972, he denounced Nixon's Equal Educational Op­portunities Act as a fraud, and was subsequently bumped from the Civil Rights Commis­sion. 
Hesburgh's farewell ad­dress, held on May 9, 1987 at Washington Hall, was delivered to an audience of 600, and broadcast to 123 sites via satellite. These sites included every state in America, Toronto and Mexico City. 
During Hesburgh's tenure at Notre Dame, 40 new buildings have sprung up on campus. En­dowments to the University have risen from $9 million to · $350 million. And the budget has experienced a similar up­surge: $9.7 million to $176.6 mil­lion. Enrollment has almost doubled. The University also experienced a switch of admin­istrative control, in 1967, from the Congregation of Holy Cross to a predominantly lay Board of Trustees, and went co­


educational in 1972. 
In 1982, dation of Catholic Colleges and Universities es­tablished the Hesburgh Award to recognize distinguished ser­vice to Catholic higher educa­tion. 
Hesburgh has recieved many awards over the years, including the Medal of Freedom, the highest honor that can be given a civilian, by President Lyndon Johnson in 1964. 








