-----------==------~---~--------~ 
An Tostal -page 9 

VOL. XXI, NO. 131 MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1987 

the independent student newspaper sen·ing 'otre Dame and Saint '-fa11's 
Students injured in crowd-for courses 
By JIM RILEY the crowd," Hardiman said. "I News Editor was bleeding all over people." He said two students noticed 
At least two students were his condition and helped him recovering Sunday from injur­exit the crowd and get his ies they received as they at­checkmarked course. tempted to register for Assistant Director of Secur­checkmarked courses at ity Phil Johnson said Security Stepan Center Friday. responded to a disturbance call 
at 9:10 Friday morning. 

Two students were transported to St. Joseph Medi­"Officers arrived at the cal Center at approximately scene and found two foyer 
9:30 Friday morning by Secur­doors broken," Johnson said. ity. Security also assisted injured 
Sophomore Todd Hardiman students, he said. said he was pushed into a glass "We've been requested to door by the force of the crowd staff registration in the future" 
and suffered cuts which re­by the registrar's office, quired two or three stitches to Johnson said, adding that Se­close. curity had not staffed registra­
It was not known whether tion previously. more than two students were ''There was absolutely no oneinjured, though one student in any authoritative position," said some students may have said Steve Traubert, anotherbeen injured when the crowd student who was waiting to en­surged forward toward the ter Stepan Center. 
doors. 
At 9 a.m. when the doors "There really isn't any one opened, people started "run­person in charge," said Daniel ning, pushing and screaming," Winicur, dean of administra­according to one student. Stu­tion and registrar . dents said a "mob" then 
Winicur said each depart­formed around the philosophy ment with a table in Stepan is table, though the other lines in charge of handing out its own were orderly. 

checkmark cards. These de­

Hardiman said that after he partments used to hand out the was pushed into the door, he cards in O'Shaughnessy Hall, found himself running with the but they asked to have a larger crowd, unable to stop. room a few years ago. 
"I was bleeding all over the 
see INJURIES, page 6

place, but I couldn't get out of 
Panel of Soviet and U.S. officials discuss ar01s control 
J 
tsy BUDOY LUEPKE 
Strategic Defense Initiative, 'Don't you remember the fall said. Milshtein said SDI would diplomatic policies. 
Senior Staff Reporter 
commonly known as Stars of 1972 when both sides agreed increase the possibility for an 
The discussions are part of

Wars. not to develop space-based accidental war because of the
Three former high ranking Secretary General Mikhail
''The ABM treaty was the weapons?' " limits of technology. ''Consider 
Soviet military officers and Gorbachev's new policy of ope­best thing in arms control,"
three former ambassadors Former Soviet Lt. Gen. M. I. accidents -Challenger and ness, and they come at a time from the United States met said former ambassador L. C. Milshtein said the ABM treaty Chernobyl -it is dangerous for when the two countries areSmith, who was the head U.S.
Friday in the Center for Con­has broken down from mutual everyone," he said. closing in on a treaty to remove
negotiator for the ABM treaty.
tinuing Education to discuss accusations of cheating. The meeting was the second intermediate-range missiles in
Smith said the Reagan admin­
arms control. However, Milshtein said, "A of three panel discussions at Europe.
istration is amending the
Both sides agreed that weap­defensive treaty must go ahead the CCE. The Soviet officials An agreement from the pres­
ons reduction must begin with original interpretation of that of an offensive agreement." arrived in Washington D.C. on ent talks in Geneva "merits to treaty in favor of SDI. "I would
an affirmation of the Anti­Defensive weapons like SDI April 19 to meet with former be a timeless document," said 
Ballistic Missile Treaty, in­very much like to hear some­"undermine the stability" be­U.S. military officers to discuss 
cluding the elimination of the one in the Soviet Union say, tween the two countries, he current military and see PANEL, page 3 
Swartz appointed adviser of undergraduate academics 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
Copy Editor 
Undergraduates enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame will have access to more specialized advising as a result of the recent appoint­ment of Professor Thomas Swartz as College Fellow, ac­cording to the College's dean, Michael Loux. 
Swartz, an economics profes­sor, will be responsible for en­hancing the quality of under­graduate academic advising in the University's largest col­lege. According to Loux, the College Fellow's office will sup­plement the current advisory program of the assistant deans of the College. 
"The assistant deans handle the formal advising of under­graduates very well," he said. "They do an excellent job with the routine advising such as helping students with registra­tion. The College Fellow's of­fice will supplement their work, to facilitate the flow of information to students so that they can find a good academic fit for their interests." 
Swartz believes the College Fellow can also send a signal to faculty: excellent work with 
see ADVISER, page 6 
Progra01 honors Hesburgh 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
"Citizen training has fallen into a sad state of disrepair," said David Leege, professor of government and interna­tional studies at Notre Dame, adding, "It's our task to help people understand the func­tioning of a democracy." 
Leege has been named the first director of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, according to Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
The Hesburgh Program, named to honor the retiring University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, is a con­centration designed to com­plement a variety of majors, Leege said. 
"The program certainly represeJIIts a marriage of fac­ulty interest and a beacon of someone who we all emulate for his contribution to public life in this country," he said. 
Hesburgh, who has served on 14 presidential commis­sions, said he was honored to have the program named after him. "I think presidents of universities have to do things that many don't do. I think you have to be clear on the great moral issues of the time" said Hesburgh. 
The new program will be funded by a $300,000 grant from the Exxon Education Foundation, said Leege. He said the proposal was con­sructed and submitted by Nathan Hatch, associate dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters. 
"Exxon has always been very good to us," Hesburgh said, adding that his col­league, Robert Payton, pres­ident of the Exxon Education Foundation, was largely re­sponsible for the grant. "It's nice to have an old friend do 
see STUDIES, pageS 

The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 2 
In Brief 
Officials of haly, Luxembourg and Spain have expressed increasing support for Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's proposal to eliminate all of the superpowers' ballistic nuclear missiles in Europe. Other members of NATO, Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark, also are believed to support the proposal. -Associated Press 
Organizers of a protest at CIA headquarters say their non-violent demonstration is a sign of opposjtion to Reagan administration policies in Central America and South Africa. Several hundred people were expected to gather outside the Central Intelligence Agency offices in nearby Langley, Va., early today, and they planned to invite arrests by disrupting traffic, according to a spokes­man for the National Mobilization for Justice and Peace in Central America and Southern Africa. -Associated Press 
A collapsed apartment building in Bridgebort, Connecticut Sunday led to a search party by a community of workers looking for missing friends in the wreckage, while officials and counselors tried to help the searchers cope with exhaustion, anger and despair. The death toll was listed at 15, with 14 bodies pulled from the rubble of the L 'Ambiance Plaza and one other spotted and presumed dead. Thirteen other workers were still unaccounted for Sunday afternoon, and six were hospitalized in good or satisfactory condition. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
The graduation ticket lottery will continue today. According to David Kil, assistant registrar, seniors wishing to acquire an additional ticket for Commencement may enter the lottery at the Registrar's Office 4:30p.m. today. The results of the lottery will be posted May 1. ­
The Observer 

The English department Colloquium Series is sponsoring Peter Smith presenting a paper on "Entropy in 'Bartleby the Scrivener"' at 3:30p.m. today in Wilson Commons. -The Observer 
Seniors, will you be moving after graduation? Do you need a new roommate or a ride to your new location? Stop by Career and Placement Services or call 239-5200 to find out about the Information Exchange.-The Observer 
"In the Beginning God Created ... " will be the title of a lecture to be given by Seymour Feldman, professor of philosophy at Rutgers University, tonight at 8 in the library auditorium.l'he lecture is part of a three-day sym­posium on God and creation. -The Observer 
Involventent with Druids reveals conforntist attitude on cantpus 
It was a dark and medium-stormy night. The fifteen mile-an-hour winds blew the 
Mark
matches out four times before we got the torches going. The sacrifice for the night's Mclaughlinceremonies, the Spirit of Winter, was ap­parently trying to thwart us by kicking up some 


wind for our journey across the sea (Saint l~iiiiiifii~i--~J;-iiii[
Mary's Lake, actually). But we overcame. ~ 
The journey across the sea was a nightmare beyond all proportion. As we made our way across the lake, a sea serpent (no, not a duck) reached up and snapped our magical fishing line, our only link to safety on the shore. "Druids adrift!" was the cry heard at Holy Cross and at Old College, our scheduled landing point. We were forced to douse the torches for fear of creating flaming Druids -not the kind of publicity An Tostal needs. But we overcame. 
We poor stranded Druids used the litter bearing the Spirit of Winter to make a sail, and we made our way towards Carroll Hall. Some­time during all the excitement, the wind snatched up the Spirit and carried it into oblivion. That wasn't supposed to happen until we got to Stonehenge, but wind and Spirits made of helium are unpredictable at best. But we overcame. 
We rejoined our bretheren on Main Quad after an exhausting run across campus. They re­ported an aerial attack with water-bearing mis­siles in the vicinity of Dillon. They also were having problems with the torches, but the water we had brought along "just in case" helped to keep things under control. Sorin wasn't overly friendly. Neither was St. Ed's. But we over­came. 
And so we marched down North Quad, as we had last month, as we had last year, with voices loud and spirits high and a small crowd gath­ered to see what idiocy we would pull off this year. A nice crowd, considering the weather (cold and damp) and the anti-Druid sentiment voiced in certain quarters. Unfortunately, our sacrifice had been stolen by the wind, and with it most of our ceremony. We made up things as we went along. It worked out all right, I think. At least we told everyone all about An Tostal, which was the point all along. 
What amazed me about the Druids this year was the negative feedback we got all along. That wasn't as easy to overcome. Sure, some of it was just friends giving me a hard time. And some of it was probably deserved, espe­cially with the overkill in the Personals section. But come on, the point of all this is An Tostal awareness. What's wrong with that? If the Of­fice of Student Activities hasn't censored it (which they didn't, to their credit), then I doubt people find it morally objectionable. 

No, the reason that Druids get water balloons thrown at them and rather obscene threats shouted through windows is because they have broken the Eleventh Commandment at Notre Dame: 
11 J Thou shalt conform 

This unwritten law seems to be a integral part of Notre Dame life. Look at how many guys own blue blazers and unfailingly wear them to every semi-formal they attend. Look at the percentage of campus students who go to football games, and compare that with the number that follow football. 
We don't enforce conformity at this school? Ask a homosexual. Ask a minority student. Ask a woman. Even ask a Druid. 
Seems kind of hypocritical for us to do that here, this being a Catholic community and all. Typical, but hypocritical. Jesus said "love thy neighbor," not "love thy neighbor only if he does the same things that thou doest, and ridicule him if he does not." 
The Druids are not out there to convert every­one else into burning torches and hanging around the Peace Memorial. Women on this campus don't ask guys to start wearing makeup or quit their drinking. Homosexuals don't ask heterosexuals to stop dating and getting married. 
Give different people the same respect they give you. 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. on the day prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus­wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish. -The Observer 
Weather 
AMERICAN CANCER 
• SOCIETY~
+ 
The Observer Is always looking for talent. If yQu have any, come to our offices and start working on your newspaper. 
Attention Juniors and Sophomores! 
One final event for An Tostal: It's a wet T-shirt contest and everyone's en­tered because there is a 50 percent chance of showers today with highs in the upper 60s. Lows in the upper 50s. Cooler Tuesday with highs in the 50s. 




come find out what 
THE JOB HUNT 
is all about! 
Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Design Aasistant ................ Matt Breslin Accent Layout ............... Mellisa Warnke Typeaetter .... .. .. .. .... .. .. .. ... Shawn Sexton ~ypist ·:...... ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Colleen Foy ........................................... Daniel Cahill d Deatgn .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Mary C. Creadon 
News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning . Copy Editor ....................... Karen Webb ND Day Ed1tor ................ Beth Cornwell Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrin~n Viewpoint Copy Editor .. . Matt Slaughter Photographer....................... Fred Dobte Viewpoint Layout......... Melinda Murphy ·· ............................................ Zolton Ury 
Tille Olllener (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& eum and vacation periods. 'I'M Olllener is published by the stu<knts of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collq;e. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2$ per semester) by writina 'I'M Olteener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. 
Tille Olleener is a member of Tille Auodakd Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Panel Discussion with recently hired graduating seniors. TODAY, APRIL 27th 7pm Room 221 Hayes-Healy 
Co-sponsored by the Finance Club and the Arts and Letters Business Society 

The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 3 
PANEL 
continued from page 1 
former Soviet Maj. Gen. E. P. Sirukov. But an agreement on intermediate-range missiles in Europe rests on an agreement on defensive weapons such as SDI, he said. 
Sirukov said the develop­ment of defensive weapons in space would lead to offensive weapons in space. "Any weapon has the pontential for improvement," he said. He said technology already exists for the development of space to space missiles. "That is why space-based weapons is closely connected to weapons in Europe," he said. 
However, the U.S. must resolve political differences before progress can be made on weapons reduction. Ambas­sador David Aaron, who was a member of the SALT I negotia­tions, said the U.S. has prob­lems with the Soviet occupation of Afganistan, human rights vi­olations in the Soviet Union and Soviet dealings in the Middle East. Aaron said Carter's SALT II failed largely because "opponents of arms control could read through a litany of political problems with the So­viet Union." 
Milshtein said his country has political problems with the 
U.S. as well. He cited Qrenada and Nicaraugua as examples. Of President Reagan's deci­sion to no longer abide by SALT II limits, former" Ambassador Ralph Earl, who negotiated that treaty, said, "I would have maintained SALT limits." He said the reason for "dumping it" was that it was fatally flawed by limits which were too high. But Earl said, "SALT II did establish a basis for reductions in SBLMs (submarine launched missiles) and ICBMs (intercontinental ballistic mis­siles) . ''. Other agreements 
could be worked out from SALT II, he said. 

We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 

NAVY HIRING 

College graduates are needed to pilot, nav1gate, and maintain the most sophis­
ticated aircraft in the world! 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
ALL majors considered 


As a NAVY PILOT, you will fly the most advanced a1rcraft ever developed. 
As a NAVY FLIGHT OFFICER, you will operate the electonics and computers 
in the Navy's newest jets. 
Navy Officer Representatives will be on campus conducting an exclusive testing session. All interested students who are within three years of graduation are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 
3~ hours and seats are limited. 
Date: .......::...F!:..;r d~a:!..JV:....c•c.....:::M~a.J....v--=..1L,_!....:1=-.:9~8'-!.7
1:::..:. 

Place: Career & Placement Services, Conference Room 
----------------~----~~~---------­
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling 256-1455 
~~~~----------­
PILOT -Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 uncorrected vision. Ages 19-26. 
FLIGHT OFFICER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. 
MANAGER,-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Ship handling and manage­=:-=:-==,...,.,.,m~e~n~t_. Strong emphasis in personnel management. Ages 19-26. 
BUSINESS MANAGER -Sta~t ~t $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 ·years). Finance, personnel, log1St1CS. Ages 19-28. 
ENGINEER-Sta~t at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. ProJect management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
Sophomores & Juniors: 
NAVAL AVIATION CADET -Sop~omores from 4-year or Community College that are un­dec1ded about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA and pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
-.m~~~~==~~~~~~=
AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE -Guaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Sophomore or Junior year summer break, and/or upon completion of BS/BA degree. 

PILOT TRAINEES 
Time: 8 : 3 0 a. m. ; 

~~~~===-~==~
RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE -Guaranteed Officer Training during ~ophomore or Junior year complet1on of BS/BA degree. No 
Must be a U.S. citizen and in good 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Warning that "poverty itself pollutes the environment," a group of prominent world citizens finds that only sustainable economic growth can stave off environ­mental disaster, says a report to be released Monday. 
"Those who are poor and hungry will often destroy their immediate environment in or­der to survive: they will cut down forests; their livestock will overgraze grasslands; they will overuse marginal 
at OCS (Newport, RI) summer break and/or upon drilling/meetings required. 
health. 

NAVY~ OFFICER. 

LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

Three retired Soviet military officers, (from Milshtein, attend a conference Friday with left to right), Maj. Gen. E.P. Surikov, Maj. Gen. three former ambassadors from the United V.I. Makarevsky, and Lt. Gen. Mikhail States, talking of war and peace. Story at left. 
Report: Poverty causes pollution 
land and in growing numbers they will crowd into congested cities," said the World Com­mission on Environment and Development. 
Among other recommen­dations, the panel called for all nations to begin planning for the switch to renewable sources of energy and "the highest priority" for research on alternatives to nuclear power. 
The commission was asked by the United Nations in 1984 to examine critical environ­mental and developmental is­sues and propose strategies for dealing with them. Its report was scheduled to be released Monday in London and Wash­ington. 
Correction 
A story Friday incorrectly reported the deadline for en­tering the lottery for addi­tional commencement tick­ets. The deadline is today at 4:30. 
The panel, whose U.S. repre­sentative was former Environ­mental Protection Agency ad­ministrator William Ruckelshaus, held hearings on five continents. 
"Our report ... is not a predic­tion of ever-increasing environ­mental decay, poverty and hardship in an ever-more pol­luted world among ever­decreasing resources. We see instead the possibility for a new era of economic growth ... ab­solutely essential to relieve the great poverty that is deepening in much of the developing world." 
Its hope "is conditioned on decisive political action now to begin managing environmen­tal resources to ensure both sustainable human progress and human survival," the com­mission said. 
"The commission believes that widespread poverty is no longer inevitable." The report advocates a strategy of "sus­tainable development" for all nations, rich and poor alike. 
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA 
Quality 35mmSlide 
Up to 20 Dupes of one Slide @ 50c ea. (Color Correction and Discounts on larger quantities also available ) Contact Christopher in Rm. 13 CCE 239-5465 
. 
:
: 
: 
: 

............................................................................................................................... 
-----~----~-------------~ 

The Observer 

Protests at Chernobyl 
Associated Press 
Protesters gathered Sunday outside nuclear power plants to mark the first anniversary of the Soviet nuclear reactor dis­aster at Chernobyl that killed 31 people and contaminated wide areas. At least 27 people were arrested. 
"Chernobyl made crystal clear the threat to our lives coming from every nuclear power plant," said Wes Croc­heron of the Clamshell Al­liance, an umbrella organiza­tion for anti-nuclear groups in New England. 
About 300 demonstrators at the finished but still-closed Seabrook plant in New Hampshire observed 30 minutes of silence, a protest of Ohio's Perry nuclear plant east of Cleveland drew 300 people, about a dozen people demon­strated at Maine Yankee, and, near Monroe, Mich., about 15 people chanted, "Shut it down," outside the Fermi II plant, shut down since an April 12 steam leak. 
In San Luis Obispo, Calif., 16 people were arrested for trespassing at Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant as they stepped across the property line and sat down at the gate. 
Some 300 other demonstrators, many wearing buttons stating "Remember Chernobyl, It Can Happen Here," cheered as each person was led away. 
Eleven protesters who tried to scale the fence around Wash­ington's Hanford nuclear reservation also were arrested. 
In Chicago, about 80 activists held a memorial service for Chernobyl victims at the site on the University of Chicago campus where physicist En­rico Fermi and his colleagues succeeded in producing the first controlled chain reaction Dec. 2, 1942. 
Chicago Mayor 1 Harold Washington declared Sunday to be Radiation Awareness Day and urged people "to remem­ber the tragedy in the Soviet Union is our tragedy as human beings and a warning to all nu­clear power and weapons pro­ducers." 
In Richland, Wash., about 200 peopple demonstrated near the Hanford nuclear reservation, calling for permanent shut­down of the reservation's N re­actor, which produces plutonium and shares several key design features with the re­actor that blew up in a steam explosion and caught fire at Chernobyl. 
They also called for a com­prehensive cleanup of defense wastes buried at Hanford. 
About 250 members of the Hanford Family, a pro-nuclear activist group composed mostly of Hanford employees, held a counter-rally a few hundred feet away. 
Later, some of the anti­nuclear demonstrators drove to the border of the reservation, and 11 were arrested when they climbed over a fence. The De­partment of Energy had earlier warned that anyone crossing the fence would face trespass­ing charges. 


lVIay 12 through May 17, 1987 Senior Week & Commencement 
May 18 & May 19, 1987 Staff Recognition Banquet Faculty Awards Banquet 
----------------~---------------­
Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 4 
PLO reunites, but peace rentote 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria -The Palestinians' "parliament-in­exile" ended a stormy session Sunday with the PLO reunited under Yasser Arafat, but with a Middle East peace settlement looking more remote than ever. 
For the first time since they split four years ago, Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, and his leading Marxist rivals, N ayef Hawatmeh and George Habash, appeared hand-in­hand and smiling as the 18th meeting of the Palestine Na­tional Council came to a close amid prolonged applause. 

But the bitter dissension be­tween hardliners and Arafat­led moderates that was aired during the five-day session sug­gested the PLO's new-found unity is fragile and subject to constant upheaval. 
Arafat once again survived concerted efforts by Syria's President Hafez Assad and Syrian-led radicals to oust him, but he paid a heavy price, bowing to demands that he abandon his relationship with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. 
An earlier, informal agree­ment would have allowed Arafat to maintain his relation­ship with Mubarak in violation 
University Food Services 
Needs Student Assistance 
HELP WANTED 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students planning to be here through Commencement Weekend: We have jobs available, serving the 1987 Commencement Activities 
of an Arab boycott imposed after Egypt signed a 1979 peace agreement with Israel. 
In exchange, Arafat had agreed to drop all attempts to negotiate a future peace settle­ment under a Jordanian umbrella. 
Apparently with strong back­ing from Syria and the host government, Algeria, Hawat­meh and Habash on Saturday abruptly upped the ante: to maintain the PLO's new-found unity, Arafat would have to ac­cept a Palestine National Coun­cil command to abandon his re­lationship with Egypt. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10 pm Sunday May 3, at 3:10 p.m. 

Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 
June 4 through June 7, 1987 Alumni Reunion Weekend 
July 30 through August 8, 1987 International Summer Special Olympics 
Other on-call positions available throughout the summer. Sign up at North Dining Hall with Dolores Wydrzynski, Manager's Office or South Dining Hall with Jean Wiley or Virdeen Rupert at the Lower Level.
t 
r 
~ 
IMPORTANT: Due to new Immigration Laws, it will be necessary for you to bring one of the following: U.S. Passport, Certificate of U.S. Citizenship, Certificate of Naturalization, Unexpired Foreign Passport with attached Employment Authorization. Alien Registration Card with photograph. 
Or, you need to bring one item from each of the following lists: A. State issued driver's license or Student I.D. Card with a photograph, U.S. Military Card B. Origi~al Social Security Number Card, Birth certificate issued by State. county, or municipal authority bearing a seal or other certification, Unexpired INS Employment Authonzat1on. 

. .. 

The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987-page 5 


Telling dirty jokes 
Four students reap the benefits of these natural beauty substances -mud and clay -while they 
STUDIES 
continued from page I 
something for you," Hesburgh said. 
The program, which is sched­uled to begin next fall, is pres­ently open to anyone who has met the prerequisites. Govern­ment 140 or 340 and Economics 
Meese aides told not to get involved 
Associated Press legations that the firm paid off more than a dozen local, state and federal officials in return
WASHINGTON-Aides to Ed­for favors. 
win Meese were advised in In 1982, Meese acknowledged 1981, when the attorney general that as White House counselor, was White House counselor, not he interceded on behalf of Wed­to get involved in problems tech and directed his staff to · Wedtech Corp. was having in make sure that . Wedtech getting a no-bid Army contract, received considerat'l.on fromaccording to a published the Army in connection with a
report. • $28.2 million no-bid contract toThe Washington Post, supply engines to the govern­quoting informed sources, re­ment. The Army had objectedported in Monday's editions that the price was too high.
that the advice was contained Wedtech eventually got a $32.2
in memos from former White million contract. Meese hasHouse counsel Fred Fielding said there was nothing unusual and former Cabinet secretary about his intercession.
Craig Fuller. 
The pair told Meese's top Recently, it was disclosed 
aides that on ethical and that Meese's financial adviser, 
procedural grounds, they who manages his blind trust, 
should not be involved in the served on Wedtech's board and 
Wedtech case. However, one may have invested some of 
aide convened a White House Meese's money in the company 
meeting on the subject without Meese's knowledge. 
anyway. 
Wedtech, a defense contrac­Meese at his own request was 
tor in the Bronx, N.Y., is now interviewed last week by the 
at the center of three federal FBI about Wedtech, and he is 
criminal investigations into al-regarded only as a witness, not 
ACC Box Office 239-7356 Sears (Elkhart) 277-4800 Sears (Mishawaka) 294-1621 Elkhart Truth 674-6337 JR's Music Shop (La Porte) 326-5403 
115 or 215 are anticipated to be the gateway courses to the con­centration of study, Leege said. 
The committee that is draft­ing the program will formulate one entirely new course for the program that is tentatively being called Introdution to Public Policy, Leege said. In order to complete the concen­tration, students will have to take 5 out of a large range· of courses that has yet to be spe­cified, he said. 
The program will also offer 10 to 20 government internships each year to students in the concentration for the summer between their junior and senior year, said Leege. "These stu­dents will get practical experi­ence in dealing with public ser­vice questions," he said. 
The program will also bring public officials and policy makers to the campus to inter­act directly with the students, Leege said. 
"We have overlooked the fact that the government is us," Leege said. "The concern over the past decade has been that we have seen the government and public service as the enemy.'' 
a suspect, in the probes. 
The Post said that the memos from Fielding and Fuller have been turned over to indepen­dent counsel James McKay. who is investigating allega­tions that former White House political director Lyn Nofziger lobbied his former government colleagues on behalf of Wed­tech within a year of leaving his post in violation of federal conflict-of-interest laws. 
~----~~---------­
The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 6 
Security Beat 
Thursday 
3:30p.m.-An employee reported that her bicycle was vandalized while it was parked in the B-1lot. The extent of damage is approximately $100. 
9:45p.m.-A Keenan Hall resident was apprehended by security for illegally entering campus and driving under the influence of alcohol. 
10:55 p.m. -Two juveniles were ap­prehended after it was reported to Se­curity that there were people on the roof of LaFortune. The juveniles did no damage to the building. They were cooperative and were escorted off campus. 
Friday 
An SMC student reported that her jean jacket and keys were taken from Theodore's in LaFortune. Estimated loss is $50. 
3:08a.m.-A Dillon Hall resident was questioned by Security after gaining illegal entry to campus via SMC gate. 
12:45 p.m.-A person was injured while unloading at the dock of Columba Hall. He was transported to St. Joseph Medi­cal Center by ambulance. 
3: 10 p.m. -A Dillon resident reported that a textbook valued at $45 was taken from the South Dining Hall lobby book rack during the lunch hour. 
3:13p.m.-An employee's vehicle was damaged while it was parked in the AB 15lot. A second vehicle apparently slipped from park and rolled into the first vehicle. Estimated damage is $150. 
ADVISER 
continued from page 1 
students contributes to the ex­cellence of a teacher-scholar. 
"At Notre Dame, we're serious about our undergradu­ates' educational development, and we can't afford to leave it to happenstance," said Swartz. "Our office will help show stu­dents the way to exploit the re­sources here fully." 
The new position of College Fellow is the result of a recom­mendation made last fall in a report by the Committee on Un­dergraduate Advising, a panel of seven faculty members ap­
12:28 p.m. -A motorcycle was wit­nessed by a security officer being driven on the sidewalk by the Univer­sity Club. The driver was stopped and found to have a restricted driver's licence and the motorcycle license plate was expired. The cycle was brought to Security until the driver can produce proper plates and driver's license. The driver is a non­community member. 
8:15p.m.-An off-campus student re­ported that his vehicle waS& ctamaged while being parked in the D-6 lot. Ap­parently another vehicle struck the driver's door causing approximately $250 damage. No information on the second vehicle was obtained. 
8:30p.m.-A Farley resident reported to Security that her Sony Walkman was taken from a room in Grace Hall. The victim had left the Walkman with the Grace residents for safekeeping. No value for the Walkman was avail­able. 
Saturday 
3:17a.m.-An employee reported that her coat was taken from Walsh hall by a male student who was refused entry to the dorm. Value of the coat is listed at $25. 
3:30 a.m. -A Breen-Phillips resident reported that she was assaulted by two males while she was walking down South Bend Avenue. Victim was able to break away from the suspects and was not injured. 
11:15 a.m.-At 10:45 p.m. Friday, an off-campus student was apprehended by Security after he was seen driving irradically and at a high rate of speed. Upon being stopped by security he was 

pointed by the Arts and Letters College Council. The program is supported in part by a grant from the Lilly Endowment, In­c., of Indianapolis. 
Swartz will place special em­phasis on increasing and im­proving the contact between students and faculty, to "extend the classroom to fac­ulty offices and outside the Uni­versity." This activity will in­clude a seminar for new faculty members, constructive criticism of lectures and en­couraging social activity such as dinners or group visits to so­cial and cultural activities, he said. 
Swartz has been a member 

Surviving Finals Week 
A workshop on test anxiety and test preparation Tuesday, April 28 6:30 p.m. University Counseling Center, Room 300 
Sponsored by the University Counseling Center 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

•VERYCLOSETOCAMPUS 
•APPROX 
2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE T E IN MICHIANA" 
found to be drivmg under the influence of alcohol. 
2:08a.m.-A Flanner resident reported to Security that his wallet was taken from his unlocked room. Total value of wallet and contents is listed at $82. 
3:00p.m.-A number of students were witnessed by Security tailgating in the Green Field area. In view of the Uni­versity's Rules and Regulations re­garding alcohol the parties were bro­ken up and several students' names were turned over to Student Affairs. 
8:10p.m.-An off-campus student re­por,ted to Security that his Schwinn ten-speed bike, valued at $200, was taken from the Galvin Bike Rack. The bike had been secured and the chain and lock were found l~ying near the bike rack. 
11:30 p.m. -An uncooperative Zahm resident was stopped by Security after it was witnessed that he was taking alcohol into a concert at Stepan Cen­ter. The case will be forwarded to Stu­dent Affairs. 
Sunday 
3:49a.m.-A Dillon Hall resident was arrested by Roseland Police after he was witnessed by the police removing a United States Flag from the pole at Burger King. 
3:15 a.m. -A Pangborn resident re­ported to Security that a green Tan­dem bike was taken from Saint Mary's by two male whites, student age. At 2.:00 p.m. this date, the bike was found by Security near the bookstore. The bike was returned to the owner. 
of the Notre Dame faculty since 1965. He is the director of the Notre Dame Center for Eco­nomic Education, a position he has held since 1973, and is a research fellow for the Na­tional Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs. He will continue teach­ing during his tenure as College Fellow. 
He received his doctorate in economics from Indiana Uni­versity in 1965. He also holds degrees from Ohio University and LaSalle College. 
INJURIES 
continued from page 1 
"This is something we've 
done for years," said Winicur. 
"We've never had any problem 
at all." 

Students also reported prob­
lems during Thursday's check­
mark registration with crowds 
at the theology table. 

Before Friday's checkmark registration, a group of Keenan students arrived at midnight and took up positions between the two sets of glass doors at the entrance to Stepan, accor­ding to the students. They said they "controlled" the doors to prevent anyone from entering early because they said they had encountered problems the year before. 

"We tried to keep it a little more organized than last year," Traubert said. 
Traubert said he entered Stepan and walked from table to table, making sure all the registration workers were ready. He returned to the en­trance and signaled for his friends to open the doors. 
Hardiman said the students planned to open all four doors simultaneously, but they could only open one door of each pair. He was then pressed by the sur­ging crowd into one of the un­opened doors, he said. 
Students also said the only exit from the philosophy table at times was to crawl under the table. They added that the sur­ging crowd upset the table at one point. 

GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED lOOlbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

~----------------~-----. 
"ie~~_O_i_n__t______________
M-onda-y,Ap-ril2-7,198-7-pa-ge7 
Homosexuals explain their discovery 
Editor's Note: The following is the first in a three part series dealing with homosexuality. The colums were writ­ten by Jenifer Naughton and four anonymous members of the communi­ty. 
"I'm gay." 
These two very brave and difficult words can change everything. They can alienate friends, disappoint parents or provoke the wrath of bullies. They can also be a .strange, welcome sigh of relief. 
Jenifer Naughton 
guest column 

Christopher is twenty one. He has al­ways known that he is gay. He did not always understand it, and he certainly did not always like it, but he has always known. 
"Ever since I was very young, it was like, 'Well, girls are nice, but there's something for these guys.' From a very young age, there was a tension that I couldn't plug into at the time because I wasn't old enough to understand the feeling." 
The easiest way to deal with tensions like that ("even when you're at an all­male school") is to repress them. "You still look and think, 'That guy's really cute,' but you can never say it because it's wrong, the church says it's wrong and society says it's wrong.." 
Until very recently, homosexuality was regarded as an unnatural, sinful 
Economics department also considers values 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, Christopher Ryan, in a guest column in The Observer, raised a number of questions concerning the quality of graduate programs at Notre Dame. I am writing because both his article and several recent responses to it in your letters section make a number of assumptions which I am afraid prej­udice the entire exchange. 
Doonesbury 
disease. We now know, through scien­tific research, that it is a natural ori­entation for probably ten percent of the population. This means that between seven-and eight-hundred students here are silently wondering whether they are gay, and what it would mean to say 
so. 
Steve is a junior. For the longest time, he 'didn't know much about homosexuality. "I knew I was, in the back of my mind, but -1 didn't know anything about it. I think it would have helped if I had learned a lot earlier what it is." 
When Steve and Christopher were growing up, people did not talk about homosexuality. Not with respect; not without joking. So they kept their feelings quiet, and they wondered what was wrong. 
"After a while," Chris explains, "the little seed you put down there starts to grow, and you try to smash it down. It doesn't work. Because it's you, and you have to grow. If you don't want that part of you to grow, the rest of you won't grow. And then you end up fighting it one more time." 
"I remember walking around the woods, basically telling God what I thought. It was like, 'You've done this to me. I don't know what it means, and no one likes it, and if everyone is so against it, how can it be good?" 
"How can I be good?" 
Chris met someone during his fresh­man year. They started talking and spending a lot of time together. They noticed a tension that they could not quite understand, until they talked some more. Something occurred. 

They realized that they loved each other, "and not just physically." They tried to keep it secret. They even stopped eating dinner together, but the relationship was discovered. 
"It was not a pretty sight. I almost committed suicide." · 
Despair is common. So are drugs and alcohol. "Is it because we're deviant? No. It's because we have a society that says, "You are unnatural, you're wrong, you're a pariah. Go to hell." 
Richard is a priest. He does not have any immediate queston of what to do with his sexuality since he is celibate. But he says, "If I were a nineteen-year­old undergraduate here who had just realized I was gay and wanted to figure out what to do with my sexuality for the rest of my life, I would want more than anything to be able to talk to other people who were gay, who had already been through that experience and had made some intelligent choices. 
"Not so they could tell me what to do, but so I could have some intelligent guideposts." 
When Steve decided that it was time to talk to somebody, he contacted the campus organization, Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. He did not feel comfortable going to a priest. "Just knowing how some priests feel about it, I would have been scared. Even though the church says that it ac­cepts people who are gay, that it just doesn't condone that lifestyle, the im­pression I get is that it doesn't accept us. 
"So I felt I had to contact the group, 
P.O. Box Q 
Ryan, in arguing for the mediocrity of our graduate programs, takes only one department, economics, into ac­count. He notes that based on the num­ber of articles the Notre Dame econom­ics department has published in four select journals, it ranks very poorly. In response, it should be noted, and I am 
sure that this is well known to economists both here and elsewhere, that these journals all share an ex­tremely quantitative approach to this social study. In their approach they at 
least implicity view economics 
tflcw~
TRJJST Me, SIR. Irs APAIN/..f£6 

REAf)y 7l) Ga MR. FINe. IAJilY 70 !NCI?I3A5E 
BAKE!?. 7HEPRESI/JEN/s S!JIRT ~AtiE!f618!/..­
TEMR.ATE ~ lfJAIJtW REPl-I­ITY-ANlJYOUR. 
ON IJ/5CORJV&. CATION. 
Ql?fTIN~ _£" 

~\ /r::~ 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of. the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible Uns1gned editonals represent the op1nion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 
as a 

value free social science. The Notre Dame department on the other hand, has made a special effort to reflect the special nature of Notre Dame by stress­ing work that is concerned with issues of developmeQt in such a way that dis­cussion of values cannot be avoided. All Ryan shows with his statistics is that Notre Dame economics has made a spe­cial effort to keep their st\ldY human, to avoid the fads of an economics es­tablishment that seeks to mechanize and quantify their study. What Ryan seeks as a criticism of the economics graduate program should, I believe, be 
Garry Trudeau 
and I'm glad I did. Before, I was con­stantly angry with myself. I was afraid to deal with it. I thought that somehow there was something wrong with me." 
Steve tried dating a girl. So did Chris. It's what he calls his "straight phase." He tried to convince himself that it would work, but the entire time they were dating, he was still checking out guys. "I realized it's not something to be cured. After a period of searching, really looking inside myself, I found out that this is just a part of me. 
"I tried everything to get away from it, but it was like, 'It's not running. It's not letting you chase it.' I wanted it out. But it decided to stay, so I decided, 'Yeah, you're a nice welcome person in my house."' 
Chris told his closest friend, and she listened. Steve told his girlfriend. Tel­ling a roommate, a parent or a friend can be terrifying. What if they hate me? Sometimes people aren't ready to hear that a friend is gay. Sometimes they are. Homosexuality remains abstract and anonymous until somebody says, "I'm gay." Then, we are obliged to respond to the person, either with com­passion or utter rejection. 
Every person Christopher has told personally has reacted positively. "I have never had a negative reaction. I've been very lucky in that regard. They might not understand, but they say, 'It's fine.' They say, 'We loved you before we ever knew. This shouldn't make any difference.'" 
Jenifer Naughton is a senior American Studies major. 
viewed as something positive. 
In remaining true to our special con­cerns, it is no accident that in some cases the secular world will view our work here with scorn. But if these con­cerns are worthwhile, which in the case of our economics department I am sure is the case, the chastisement of faddish and misguided (e.g. can economics really avoid questions of morality?) power cliques means very little. 
Alven Neiman Assistant Dean College of Arts and Letters 

Quote of the day 
" If you are willing to accept mediocrity from yourself or those around you, even part of the time, people will flnd it easy to live down to your expectations. If, however, you set your expectations high, you will continually be surprised at the many ways in which those around you strive for and achieve that which they 
once  thought  was  only  an  impossible  
dream."  
Anonymous  

Submitted by William Sullivan, '64 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ........... ................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Proje_cts Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor. .. ......... Marilyn Benchlk Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
Founded November3, 1888 
Accent 
Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 8 

The ObserveP11'11ke Moran 
Sister Evodlne McGrath of the Center for Basic Learning SkUls and one of her students. 
Center 
MATT SITZER features writer 

R
eading is fundamental, as the saying goes, but for one out of three adults in America, the ability to read is viewed as a next to impossible dream. 
As a nation, the United States ranks only 49th on the list of the world's most literate countries. This translates into millions of our own citizens unable to read a road sign, unable to fill out a job applica­tion, and unable to read a bed­time story to their own children. Here in South Bend, however, there is a program dedicated to changing these sad statistics. Because of the efforts of a few concerned indi­viduals, some adults, previ­ously ignored and neglected by society, are now learning how to read. 
Located at I 007 West Colfax Avenue, the Center for Basic Learning Skills provides free tutoring for illiterate adults of the South Bend area. The Cen­ter, which has operated there for close to two years, is di­rected by two enthusiastic Fran­ciscan nuns, Sisters Evodine McGrath and Marita Stoffel. Prior to the opening of the Center, the Sisters ran a similar program for children called the Primary Day School. The Sisters are currently assisted by a few area volunteers but mainly by 38 Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"We are working with func­tionally illiterate people, mainly to help them get better jobs," explained McGrath, "but, in some cases, it's just a matter of personal enrichment for the 
individual." 
McGrath said the reading abilities of the people at the Center range from those who are "positively illiterate" to 
some who are "actually high r school graduates, but read at 
r 
an elementary level." 
"We have dozens of them like this," added Stoffel, "with high school diplomas, yet still at a second or third grade reading level. We've had athletes--star athletes--who couldn't read a fourth grade text book. One had scholarship offers from four different uni­versities, Including Indiana and Purdue." 
fights for justice 
"Some of our students are 
pretty far along," continued 
McGrath. "They simply want to 
pass the OED (high school 
equivalency exam) in order to 
get a job, or, in some cases, to 
keep the ones they have." 
When asked about the role of 
the Notre Dame volunteers, 
McGrath remarked, "The volun­
teers from Notre Dame are 
very, very helpful. There is 
such a nice rapport, a nice re­
lationship between our stu­
dents and those from Notre 
Dame. It's just great, and I 
think all of us are profiting by 
it." 
There are also other volun­teer tutors from around the community who routinely take part in the daily sessions. Mrs. Jean O'Meara, wife of University provost Dr. Timothy O'Meara, is very active at the Center. "She has just been wonderful," said McGrath. "She's here every day." 
Tutors at the Center concen­trate on the basics, "the three r's " says Stoffel, unless the student expresses the desire to do something additional or has a special goal which he or she would like to pursue. 
One of the more advanced students eventually wants to pursue a career in therapy, but first needs to finish three high school courses. 
Another student, Addie, a 75-year-old woman, wants to learn how to read the Bible. "I just want to learn so bad," said Addie, "but I waited too late to do it!" 
At this,· Stoffel immediately exclaimed, "It's never too late, Addie! It's not too late if you're 85!" 
Notre Dame volunteer Chris­topher Zenk, a sophomore from Butler, Indiana, has been involved with the program for close to a year and a half. Zenk stresses the importance of Notre Dame student involve­ment at the Center to help people who have been ne­glected by our society for so long. "Try to fathom that some­one can't read a street sign," said Zenk. "I don't know how you can not help them." 
When asked about the dis­position of the students at the Center, Zenk remarked, "There's something they exhibit--it's more than enthusi­asm. It's an innocence, a sense of wonder at what they're ac­hieving." 
Junior, Rob France, another Notre Dame volunteer, agrees with Zenk adding, "These people really want to learn, and I think that's great. No one really took the time to. educate them before. They just sort-of slipped through the system." 
Most of them pick things up very quickly," said senior, Anne Fessler, "I guess that's because they're so enthusiastic. They never seem to get tired of learning. Also, they seem to really appreciate us tutoring them, and that makes us feel good too." 
Funding for the Center depends upon donations from concerned individuals and groups within the community. The Center has also received contributions from groups of Notre Dame students. In fact, all proceeds from this year's Fisher Regatta were dortated to the Center. 
Anyone needing help can enroll in the program, and the Sisters don't inquire into a stu­dent's personal life unless in­vited to. "That's not what we're here for," said Stoffel. "It's not our business to say 'shame on you.' We want them to be people first--to develop good self-concepts. We will never let a person fail. We always stress the good things, the right answers, never the failures." 
Instilling self-confidence in the students is a primary goal for all the tutors at the Center. According to McGrath and Stof­
fel, a good self-image is ex­
tremely important for people 
who have been conditioned by 
society to consider themselves 
inferior. Once they realize that 
they do have the capacity to 
learn, the greatest obstacle has 
been overcome. 
According to the tutors at the 
Center for Basic Learning 
Skills, all of us who have been 
lucky enough to obtain a good 
education have a duty to help 
the illiterate members of our 
society. They admit that the 
public educational system has 
improved over the years, but, 
in some areas, it still leaves a 
lot to be desired. "I really 
believe we owe it to them," 
said Stoffel. "I think we owe it 
to them because they've been 
shortchanged for so long. It's a 
matter ofjustice." 
Days of Our Lives: Marlena's plane crashes 
All My Children: Travis 
prepared to enter an auto 
race, where he gambled on 
winning Tempo away from 
Adam. Jesse, who had gone 
undercover to investigate the 
baby selling ring. was rrrts­
sing. Angle believed there was 
a contract out to murder him. 
Driving in a thunder storm, 
Jeremy saw a woman about 
to.jump from a precipice. He 
recognized her as the face in 
one o.f his oil paintings, and 
took her to the hospital. Com­
ing:Jeremy searches for clues 
to the identity of the mysteri­
ous woman. Complications 
arise in the planning of Natalie 
and Palmer's wedding. 

Another World: Greg told 
Nancy that Tony had a secret 
life. Greg learned that Tony 
was spending a lot of time in 
an apartment in the same 
building where the killer once 
lured Adam. Lisa was terrifed 
when her car overheated and 
the man who offered to help 
was wearing the same surgi­
cals the killer wore. She ran, 
and Jamie arrived, trying to 
find her. Greg was attacked by 
the killer. By the time Adam 
got there, Greg was dead. 
Coming: The search for the 
killer intensifies. 

As The World Turns: 
Sabrina moved to England. 
Casey wondered how Taylor 
Baldwin's arrival at Memorial 
hospital would affect his 
romance with Lial. Despite 
threats from Seth, Tonia con­
tinued to see Meg, who had 
moved back to the farm. Com­
ing: John and Lucinda face 
new decisions. 

Days of Our Lives: In a bat­
tle with Roman, Olivia was shot and Orpheus was killed. Olivia sent Shane to the air­port to find Marlena, but he ·arrived in time to see the plane crash. After Paul and Kim's fake wedding, Shane took Gillian home, plying her with champagne, and later told her they had made love. Coming: Kim is shocked when 
Shane proposes to Gillian. 
General Hospital: Oreta had 
an emotional reunion with her 
father In Lockport. DVX's 
thugs discovered Malcolm 
gave them the wrong formula. 
To save himself, Malcolm 
swore to kill Greta, and began 
his desperate search for Greta 
and the real MOX-36 antidote. 
Ray Gibbons discovered the 
identity of the bearded mys­
tery man in the photograph. 
Coming: Good news for Anna 
and Duke. 

Guiding Light: Alan ad­mitted to Alex that he met with Valere and left his cane by mistake. Wyatt insinuated to Roxie that Valere got his scar from Johnny. At the hanger, Johnny came out of hiding, and he and Roxie made love. Allen tried to trap Christine with her conflicting stories about where she was when Valere died. An intruder took the gun from Roxie's hiding 
place. Coming: More twists in the murder investigations. 
Loving: Ned joined Jim's class to get closer to April. Cecilia collapsed, and Steve hurried to the hospital to dis­cover Cecilia might lo.se the baby. Lily threatened a fellow patient to keep her mouth shut about her plan to leave the hospital. Doctor Horton told Lily he would talk to the bo.ard about her release. Shana accused Clay of doublecrossing her when he, not she, was voted chairman. Coming: The romance be­tween Clay and Ava continues to develop. Ned discovers April's secret life. 
One Life To Live: Maria confessed to Clint that she schemed to break up his mar­riage and tried to give the im­pression that Viki was losing her mind. In Argentina, Gabrialle searched Indian vil­lages for a white woman believed to be Tina. Thinking Tina was dead, Cord planned his wedding to Kate. Coming: Gabria!le finds Tina. Clint and Viki reunite but there continue to be problems in their rela­tionship. 
Ryan's Hope: John woke up confused in Concetta's bed. Roger told Jill he was going to try to get Maggie back. A guilty John and Lizzie agreed tb continue their engage­ment. Pat and Concetta con­vinced Melinda to have chemotheraphy and radiation. Dee saw a painting that Roger hung of Maggie. Rick, Ryan, and Sam found Zena, but she refused to go with them. Coming: Zena's confusion continues, and there are more problems for Melinda. 
Santa Barbara: The Cap­wells were devastated follow­ing the plane crash. Cruz took a helicopter to where the plane went down and said an emotional goodbye to Eden. The mountain man took Eden to the Hospital and registered her as his sister, Susan Cain. Semi-conscious, Eden heard a doctor say she would never walk again. Jeffrey was drawn to Kelly in her pain over Eden's "death". Ken ambushed Cruz at a warehouse. ·Coming: Mason and Jeffrey have a con· frontation. 
The Young & The Restless: Nikki continued to try to find out Ashley's whereabouts, but Jack said she was on vacation. Steve told Ashley to mentally let go of Victor, and Ashley began to forgive herself, knowing that everything she had done was for Victor's protection. She vowed never to love again. Nikki was con­vinced Victor stayed with her out of pity, not love. Phillip became more infatuated with Cricket. Faran lost her baby. Coming: Before she dies, Nikki is determined to find a replacement for Victor. 
1987 McNaught Syndicate 
The Observer Monday' Apr!l. 27 ' 1987 -page 9 


Monday, April 27, 1987-page 10
The Observer 

NBA roundup
Sports Briefs 
•
Jordan nets 42, but Celts WID 
SMC aerobics instructors for next year are needed. Send resumes to Mary Jo Lambert or call Angela Athletic Facility at 5549. -The Observer 
The ND baseball team lost two of three game& against St. Louis University this weekend. Saturday, the Irish split a doubleheader, losing the first game, 3-1, and taking the nightcap, 5-2. The Irish lost Sunday's game, 3-2. Notre Dame, now 13-23, take on Western Michigan today. Details appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Ob­server 
In the NUL playoffs, the Philadelphia Flyers beat the New York Islanders, 6-4, to take a 3-1 in their series. Also, Montreal sqeaked past Quebec, 3-2, in overtime to even their series at two games apiece. -The Observer 
The Hering Awards for outstanding performances during spring drills were given to: Jeff Kunz, Most Im­proved Defensive Lineman; Mike Stone breaker, Most Im­proved Inside Linebacker; Frank Starns (who switched from fullback), Most Improved Outside Linebacker; Corny Southall, Most Improved Defensive Back; Steve Huffman, Most Improved Offensive Lineman; Aaron Robb, Most Improved Receiver and Alonzo Jefferson, Most Improved Offensive Back. -The Observer 
Dancin' D.an's Fan Club won the An Tostal Mud Volleyball championship over Radical Liberals, 10-15, 15-2, 15-12. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer Associated Press 
Danny Ainge led Boston on a fourth-quarter rally, and the Celtics overcame a 42-point performance by Michael Jor­dan to beat the Chicago Bulls 105-96 Sunday and take a 2-0 lead in their NBA first-round playoff series. 
"We're just trying to scratch it out and weather the storm by Jordan," Boston Coach K.C. Jones said. 
The Celtics could wrap up their best-of-5 series Tuesday night at Chicago. 
Trailing 87-85, Boston out­scored Chicago 10-2 during a stretch that included three bas­kets by Ainge. The only Bulls points during the rally came on a basket by Jordan. 
Larry Bird, held to just 17 points in the first playoff game, had 29, and McHale added 20. Ainge and Dennis Johnson had 18 apiece. 
Pistons 128, Bullets 85 
Detroit, behind the shooting of Adrian Dantley and a body­slamming defense, rolled to an NBA playoff record 40-point halftime lead and coasted to victory over the Washington Bullets. 
The Pistons, with Isiah Thomas sinking a "Hail, Mary" fling at the buzzer from just inside the halfcourt line, opened the largest halftime lead in NBA playoff history, 76­
36. The previous record was 36 points on March 30, 1970, when Milwaukee led Philadelphia 77­41. 
The Pistons increased the ad­vantage to as much as 99-51 in the third quarter. 
Adrian Dantley, who scored 18 points in the first half, finished with 24, while Thomas finished with 17 for Detroit. Terry Catledge led Washington with 19 points. All-Stars Moses and Jeff Malone, were held to 17 and 11, respectively. 
76ers 125, Bucks 122 OT 
Charles Barkley scored eight points in overtime, including the go-ahead basket with 11 seconds left, for Philadelphia, which will host the next two games of the best-of-5 series. Tne next is Wednesday night. 
Sidney Moncrief gave the Bucks a 122-121 lead with 29 seconds to go on a driving bas­ket, but Barkley's six-foot shot from the left baseline, which bounced on the rim several times before falling through, made it 123-122. 
Milwaukee's Terry Cum­mings missed a jump shot and Julius Erving dropped in two free throws with a second remaining for the final points. 
Roy Hinson scored 28 points to lead the 76ers while Barkley added 26 and Erving 23. Ricky Pierce scored 24 for the Bucks, Cummings 21 and Moncrief 20. 
Trail Blazers 111, Rockets 98 
Clyde Drexler scored 32 points and Houston had 25 turn­overs as the Trail Blazers defeated the Rockets. Terry Porter added 18 points and tied a Blazers playoff record with 15 assists. 
The Rockets took a 12-point first-quarter lead, but with Akeem Olajuwon on the bench in foul trouble, fell apart on of­fense in the second quarter. 
Houston was within 92-87 with 7:31 remaining, but Porter and Kiki Vandeweghe hit jumpers and the Rockets got no closer than seven there­after. 
The~ Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The~ Saln1 Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prapald, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $319 Lowest Scheduled AirFares to all of Europe. Call 1 (800) 325-2222 dapl. 518. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
Wordprocessing· Typing 272·8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Pro!MaiOI'Ial Raaumaa Student A­Near tha Mtlll 272-8338 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR$$$-­Non-texts for $$$tredit neld fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI 10·530, ph. 233·2342 
PRO· TYPE Quality work, word proceaalng avail· able. Reaaonable $. 2n-5833. 
IF YOU ARE A OJ OR BAND RETURN· lNG NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CONTACT ANNE AT 1675 YOU WILL BE PUT ON A LIST TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO ALL HALL PRESIDENTS 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: Woman's prescription eyeglasses at bus stop near Law School on Monday, April 13. Call 272· 7949 to identify. 
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES (LADIES) in a soft black case on North Quad Tuesday ,night. Call Craig (not Dave, Greg, Grag, Dan or Joe) at NO· 1694 

FOUND: A BASKET BALL. ON BOOKSTORE COURTS ON MONDAY, APRIL 13TH. IF IT IS YOURS , CALL MIKE AT 1657. 
LOST MEN'S GOLD COLOR WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND. IT WAS MY CHRISTMAS PRESENT. DOES NOT HAVE MUCH STREET VALUE, BUT PLENTY OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME IF SHE FINDS OUT I POSSIBLY LOST BE· TWEEN MORISSEY AND KEENAN LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL RAFAEL AT 3348, OR DROP OFF AT LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 
LOST CAR KEY N HOUSE KEY ON NORTH SIDE OF CAMPUS PLEASE CALL GROUNDS DEPT 6537 OR 654 7740 ASK FOR RHONDA THANKS 
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE--I,M ON MY KNEES If you accidentally look an Organic Chemistry book Friday at lunch Pleaaa return to MARK at 1851 
Lost Faded Out Jean Jacket at Theodore's on April23 . I think there was a mix-up · yours is In the Lost and Found in La Fortune. it has sentimental value to melllll Please contact Cindy at SMC £4219. 
Lost: HANDMADE SILVER PEACE SIGN EARRING, possibly in the ACC fencing gym two weeks ago. Extreme sentimental value. If found please call 284-4338 Cattlln 
FOR RENT 

6 bedroom 4-6 students $400500 & utilities. Security system 234 6688 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683· 8889 
FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­_36841288-0955 
SUMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL 
2 BAs remaining in large house on NO Ave. Cali 255-5852 or 234-6661 
Apt. lor rent this summer Call Heidi 233·4176 

STUDENT HOUSES 2, 5, and 6 man houses on Corby available for neld year. Call Chat at 234·7664 
································································ 
WANTED 

ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physlcla"'l>sychologist) wiho deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We can provide lots of love, opportunijies, and a warm welcome from family and friends. Expenses peid. Lagal. Confidential. Call Eliie'Aian collect (212)· 724-7942. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR CHICAGO-LINCOLN PARK AREA STARTING JUNE 1, 87. CALL KAREN AT 272·7421. 
O:O"Yoii".NE.Eo..i...R"oolilii.rE"?..i:ii 
NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO UVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors, 21 plus, Coed, sleepeway camp, Massachusetts Berkshlres, WSI, arts&crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, gymnastics. drama, pianoj)lay for shows, judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock· etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year· book, woodworking, RN and typists. Write:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd, Eastchester, NY 1 0707 or call 9141779· 9406. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 814-381-4224. 
Need a female roommate for summer mayba lall too. Call Maureen at SMC 5243. 
EARN$$$ PART-TIMEI 

Established manufacturer seeking 
Aggressive Students to promote Your School Shoes. GOOD INCOME AND EASY WORK. FREE Details: JAVELIN, 9825, Lackman Rd, LENEXA, KS 66219 
INDIANAPOLIS-BOUND GRADSI female roommate needed June 1st call: Mary Beth 284·5134 
Eam $2500-4000. Gain unbeatable busi· ness experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar· keting Director for Campus Connection, our nationally expanding, Innovative ad· vertising guide. Currently at 42 univer· sities • we'll provide complete training, materials, and support. Call Chris Kelsey, Manager, at (805) 564·1260 for complete information. Ideal tor ambitious, person· able freshmen-junior. Start earning In May. 
Moving off-campus? Need furniture? Graduating seniors will sell bed, table, chir, lamps, dresser and much, much more. Everything must GOIII Let's make a deall Call Joe and Tony 277-7209. 
RIDER NEEDED TO S.F. BAY AREA THE CAR IS LARGE AND THE RIDE IS FREE JUST HELP DRIVE BILL P. 1165 
Ride Mex or So West U.S. John 267 
0931 

FAREWELL MASS-LECTORS NEEDED. Tryouts In Secred Heart, Tues· day 28 April, 6-6:30 pm. Pick up copy ol readings at 121 B-P. 
.........cHicAGo:iiouNo.GR'Aosii........ 
Female Roommate needed. 2 BrII bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1st. For more Info: call Pam (312) 348·6688,SMC'66 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: TAKARA 1Q-SPEED BIKE Technics Stereo Speakers· 75 watts $8~ir Technics Quartz Turntable $30 Technics cassette deck $65 CALL TOM 1702 
FOR SALE TWO NEW PAIRS OF REEBOKS, SIZE 9 112, MUST SELL $45 OR BEST OFFER. CALL C4020 LOOK GOOD FOR THE SUMMERI 2 NEW PAIRS OF REEBOKS, 
FOR SALE:1978 VW RABBIT,GOOD CONDITION,$1,200,239-5693. 
AIR TICKET:SOUTH BEND-LOS AN· GELES,FRIDAY MAY 1,1:30 P.M.,$120,239-5693 
FOR SALE 1976 Monte Carlo, swivel seat, AM-FM stereo cassete player, 80,000 original miles, a good winter car, $400 or best offer. Must sell by or before graduation. Call 232-6428 after 6PM. 
FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283· 3883,NICK 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE NEIL DIAMOND TIXI call 277·8347 
Let me make an offer for 1 graduation ticket. Call Tom at 233·5065 
U-2 TIX beat offer £2028 
Need Grad. Tix Will Pay $$$ Call Pete 272·6078 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUOAY INN. 
Are you going 1o be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
If so, The Observer needs your help in 
producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, if you are inter· ested in newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 
Special Olympics 
NEEDS YOU!If 
Mark • My fears were unfounded. Blind deteo can be fun... Thanks to all Glee Clubbers for a great evening. JA 
Mothers and fathers throughout the land Don' criticize what you don't understand 
................................................~..~ 
"Inbreeding increases homozygosity." 
Words we all can live by. Ral's Syndrome 5 • The Final Chapter (except for the final of course) 
oo··voi.i"'i.ieeo··A'..FiooM'iiiAre?"i:u 
NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL· TIME JOB, AND f NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282·3727. 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. If you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
································································ 
OK this is m~ final offer for Graduation tickats. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. 
• Call Mark at 2339. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--· Non·lelds for $$$tredit neld fall. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 10·530 ph. 233-2342 
Thank You St. Jude P.N. 
needed: rides to and from the U2 CON· CERT In Chicago for two people. $$$$ call Paul 2287. 
"Sure I look tha Kaplan a~urM. I don't gamble with my future." Clue beglna &15 lor the &15 LSAT. ReHrvallona:272-4135. 
I need a roommate neld year at Stanford Univ. Please call John at 283-1814. 
iiAuoi-TioNsii.................iiA'uoi-TioNsi, 
IIAUDITIONSII NOTRE DAME FOLK CHOIR for '87·'88 Contact Campus Min­istry at 239·5242 
Hey Nat, how's it going. 
..........................li:irix.....................,... . 
Only $25 apiece! Call Dick at 7787 
REMEMBER JAMAICA f still have a few 
L & XL !·shirts .I JUST HATE THAT I Only 
$6 at3851 

FOR SALE NEW PUMA WARM UP SUIT $35 
...............P.~-~~.~~!:1-~..~:.~.!.~............... 
DANIEL C. GAUGHAN: IF EVER THERE WAS A PERSON WHO DESERVED TO BE IN THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, IT IS YOU.GOOD LUCK ON THE MCAT SATURDAY--I KNOW YOU'LL JUST POSITIVELY KICK-. A FUTURE PA· TIENT 
································································ 
ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION BAN· QUET ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION BANQUET ACCOUNTING ASSOCIA· TION BANQUET ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION BANQUET ALL MAJORS INVITEDIII "REFRESHMENTS" AT 6. DINNER AT 
7. KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB. 
$3.00. 

IF YOU WERE ItT GREG KOHS' PARTY ON SATURDAY NIGHT AND ACCIDEN· TALLY PICKED UP AN INSTAMATIC CAMERA (WITH THE INITIALS S.E.D. ON THE BACK) PLEASE CALL RAC· HAEL AT SMC 5181. THANKS! 
;:~;;;;·-;;;;;;;~ ....................................... 
Congrats on emcats 

Thank you, St. Jude! L.W. 
CHRIS, MY BEST TIMES WERE TIMES SPENT WITH YOU. YOU HAVE GIVEN ME ONLY GOOD MEMORIES AND YOU'LL ALWAYS HAVE A LITTLE PIECE OF MY HEART. LOVE ALWAYS, 
-~M.Y. ....................................................... 
GOING TO EUROPE THIS SUM· MER-FALL? Large backpack for sale! 272·8919 
Lon A. Q.O.T.D. "There are better ways to use a mattress" please tell us what are they, Lori? 
ATTN: MIKE BUC Couldn't find you Eutar weekend to tell you • you're going to be an uncle again. Your at-. Noodlu 
P.S. No more Roaabuda 
Well It's the last week of classes! Hal· lelujahll I can't wait to get out of herell 1 just know there are some real women somewhere out there and I'm going to find one or else I'm going to die a single man. I just refuse to lower my standards! 
PLEASE. PLEASE, PLEASE--I'M ON MY KNEES!! If you accidentally took an Organic Chem1stry book Friday at lunch Please call MARK at 1851 
MUST SELL FAST · before school is out ·1985 Honda Civic· good cond. stick shift. $1500 or best. Cali x3460 after 10 p.m . ask for Kevin 
Tonight on WVFI AM 64:THE ALBUM REVIEW SHOWIII Kara and Ann will be listening to and discussing the new great LP by THE FLESHTONES as well as a really cool compilation album just released by Nettwerk Records. Lots of good music from 9pm-11pm TONIGHT! WVFI 
MAGGIE SIEGER· the cute one from 
Texas. You're so sweetl Your Secret Ad· 
mirer 

"My biological clock is ticking, and my social life has M rock bottom." 
SMC ORIENTATION NEEDS NO MOVERS • Any guys interested in hef· ping SMC freshmen move into their dorms in August, please call Sue at284­5067. 
to my s.h.: remind me never to buy you a warmer jacket...Cat stevens is the coolest. P.S. I think i fell in love with you again this weekend 
Hey, who scratched my Porsche outside Macri's Saturday night? 

---~--~----~---­
The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 11 
Colts fullback injured 
Associated Press Center in Baltimore, where he was flown by a Med-Evac 
TIMONIUM, Md. -Randy helicopter. McMillan, a running back with McMillan was struck after the National Football League's getting out of his car and Indianapolis Colts, was walking across the street to seriously injured early Sunday talk to a person who had been when he was struck by a car, pulled over by a state police police said. trooper, Reese said. 
The first selection of the Colts 
McMillan, 28, of Timonium, in the first round of the 1981 received a head injury and two college draft, McMillan has broken bones in his lower left 3,876 career rushing yards, the leg in the 2:18a.m. accident, fifth highest in Colts history. according to Sgt. Glenn Reese, 
..... 

a Baltimore County police A Maryland native, he -· 
spokesman. played two seasons at Pit­
He was listed in fair and sta­tsburgh after spending two ble condition at the University years at Harford, Md., Com­of Maryland Shock Trauma munity College. 
l~~ 
• t. ~ -~\:~~.)--· 
•

Move Yourself, All Your Staff, 
>~, 

•• -' •••
,~--And S~, Tool-........., 
· The Observer1Joann Whitfield Steve Belles engineered two touchdown drives in the Blue's 24-7 victory. i\ ~' ~~' attempts for 51 yards. Graham, the ball very, very well."
,\n #'I. 

meanwhile, completed 7-of-15 Indeed both secondaries did
Green 
...:;-, 

passes for 107 yards and an in­turn in standout performances . 
( .'1;;co,i 

J ;--. continued from page 16 terception. Green's Brandy Wells came up too many penalties (10 for 93 On the other side of the ball, with an interception and a
/{ 

yards between both squads). Terry Andrysiak found the day fumble recovery, while Gold's But other than the number of a bit rougher. While complet­Marve Spence, who had the un­,JI~~ penalties, I thought we played ing 12-of-29 attempts for 140 enviable task of covering Tim the type of game that won't get yards and one interception, Brown, broke up three passes.~-r you beat." Andrysiak was harassed most Gold's Mike Tafelski came up The Green relied on a solid of the day and was sacked five with a diving interception after 
It's as easy as renting a Ryder truck, one way. 
ground attack based on Green, times, three by Darrel 'Flash' Corny Southall deflected a flea­
Campa.-., costs bdo.-., you make plans lor moving at the end o! 
who gained 61 yards on 15 Gordon. He directed his squad flicker pass intended for Brown 
t~ semt.:ster. 
II you'.-., 18 or older and have a valid driver's license. you can carries and scored twice, and on 50-yard, nine-play drive at the Gold six with Green up use a Ryder truck. l'<'nt-it-he.-.,, leave-it-there. Load up your 
fullback Anthony Johnson, who capped off by a Braxton Banks 14-7
ste.-.,o. 10-speed, clothes: everything. You'll still have room. no doubt. !orone or two friends with theirthings to sha.-., the cost also had 61 yards on 12 carries. three-yard scoring run in the
Compare that to the price o! a plane ticket Or even a bus. 
Plus shipping. Their task was made easier by second quarter. The Green broke to 14-0 lead Rent a newer truck !rom the best-maintained, most dependa­running behind the blocking of 
"It's the first time we've ever in the first quarter, as Green
ble neet in the world Ryder. The best truck money can rent 
Chuck Lanza, Tom Freeman had a football team where the followed his one-yard dive with 
2715 North Bendix, South Bend, Ind. and Marty Lippincott -all of starting quarterback's team a nine-yard bolt. In the second 

(By the Airport) whom should be in the starting loses by 17 points -which con­half, Green added to its 17-7 RYDER TRUCK RENTAL lineup come next fall. cerns me. (But) I think you get lead as Pernell Taylor, who All studt>nts are givt>n a IO<:( discount. The Green squad also got there and try to make things gained 16 yards while playing 
solid jobs at quarterback from happen. Our pass rush lanes the first half for the Gold, went 
IT'S RYDER, OR IT'S WRONG Steve Belles and Pete Graham. are much better than last year, off left tackle for a three-yard 
Belles led the team on two and (Andrysiak) didn't have an score. Taylor finished with 21 
touchdown drives, while awful lot of time. yards for the Green in the 
Graham directed one drive for "Defensively, I thought we second half. ' six and another which resulted pressured the passer a little bit 
in a Reggie Ho field goal from better, but it's hard to tell when Earlier in the third quarter, 42 yards out. Belles finished the you go against one another. I Ho just missed a 48-yard field day with 4 completions on 14 thought the secondary played goal as it hit the left upright.
It beats osmosis, 
Seturday'o Game 
Gold 0700 7 Green 14 3 7 0 24 
Scoring GRN -Green 1 run (Ho kick) GRN -Green 9 run (Ho kick) GOLD -Banks 3 run (Gradel kick) GRN • Ho 42 FG GRN • Taylor 1 run 
Gold Grn First downs 1 0 18 Rushing attempts 27 48 Net Yards Rushing 27 213 Net Yards Passing 140 158 Passes comp-attempted 12-30 11-29 Had Intercepted 1 1 
Total Net Yarde 167 371 Fumbles-loa! 1-1 3·0 Penalties-yards 4-47 6-46 Punts-average 7-37.2 5-29.6 lndlvldu•l Le•dera 
RUSHING · Gold: Banks 8-32; Taylor 4-16; Jef­ferson 5-3; Andryalak 9-(-25); Green: Green 15·61; Johnson t2·61; Taylor 6-21; Belles 8-43; 
PASSING-Gold: Andryslak 12·29·1,140; Phelan 0-HJ, O; Green: Bellea 4·14·0,51; Graham 7-15· 1,107; 
RECEIVING • Gold: Terrel 5; Robb 3-49; Dumas 2-39; Green: Eason 4-38; Brown 2·33; Ward 2-89; Green 2·12; 
AHendance · 17,616 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
Center tor T..chlng Non·VIolenco & NCTV lull-time otall. Lodging & S60001yr. Aeoeorch on aggreoalon. clearinghouse, publishing & lobbying agelnot vlolencelnctudlng TV, film, wor toyo, sports, erotica. Next to U IIIInolo. Student loans deferable. 217·384-t920. 


ENJOY COMPLETE CURRICULUM IN ENGLISH, SPANISH
SAINT LOUIS UNI­

LIBERAL ARTS, BUSINESS,
VERSITY'S 
SCIENCE, HISPANIC STUDIES 
MADRID CAMPUS July Session Includes: GRADUATE PROGRAM IN HISPANIC STUDIES 
SLU ie ar. AMOE 
Apply NOW for Summer & Falll 
INFORMATION: 
CALLE DE LA VINA, 3 
MADRID 28003 SPAIN 
TEL. (91) 233-2032 
233-2812

Absorb more with this Zenith PC, featuring: Dual Drive Special Student Price 
• Compatibility with virtually all IBM PC" software 
TELEX: 44813 
• MS-DOS-the system that takes you from college to career 
m with more than 500 S anish Students.
$799.00 *

• 
256K of RAM-expandable to 640K on main board 

• 
Up to 720K of floppy disk storage 

• 
Dual speed processing that offers a response lime Hard Dlok up to 60% faster than the IBM PC 


Special Student Price 

__URDA~ .
• The ability to support most peripherals right out of the box 
$1,199.00 * 

• And the 20 Megabyte Hard Disk version offers 
If you have already ~_;
Increased storage and expendability in a low-cost PC. 
made an Urban Plunge... ' ~ 
Ask about the Special Student Pricing on our other exciting Zenith Personal ...then you are invited to be a member of the ;_
Computers and Monitors! 1987-88 Urban Plunge Task Force. Help with ~ Special Student Prices on the Zenith Z-148 Desktop PC now available at: 
publicity, registration, organization sites, the Or-~ ientation Workshops, evaluation, or as a Hall ~
Computer Center 
Rep. ~ 
Demo Room 


Interested? U• 
Come find oul more lonight al the Urban Plunge Task Force
Lisa Hines 
:: 

organizational meeting, 6:30 pm at the Center for Social Con­cerns. If you would like to help, but cannot make lhe meeting,
239-5153 

call Dan Keusal at 239-7943.
llo\ F 

"<••~t· D<tnl<·. IN 46~'>6 
Ask about our Zenith Data Systems Credit Card. 
~1'1-2\9-~142 lnanyt2-ITlCWIIhpetKXIPr1CeSStJb;lc1 21'1 ·2!'1-~ll'l 

'Mlnla ncllflChJdldlf'lpncs canQUter aOO me nmtrJ per I!Ovllilal 
Spocol ~-~... IJDI..,"' 71NirN I~:Jfems to change Wlthwt nooce.
purctm. ttwlliQh lanllh Cc:IUcus) 
l'IIIH.'r"'ll\ of
,_.

Idled ibM by Sludllnll. IM:lM)o .Uid 
llallkr theM own use Molfhlt C' 1987, Zemth Data Systems Nt~l\' ll.mx· lilcwnls.QllylmtnperiQ'!lll 01
1til <)l.J!ILITY (,()[SIN HHORE THf NAME GOES ON 



----________________________________________________________________________________________________. 
The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987-page '12 
~e Quint 
We Weren't Cheerleaders In High School 8 21 
Hooelar Lawyer??? 
Takes It All 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie 21 19 Hoosier Lawyer??? 
4'24 ST1 6:00 Double Decker Oreo Cookie 16 4'25 ST1 4:00 Double Decker 
4'24 ST1 5:00 

Feat Break Flva
5
Oreo Cookie 
21 
CHAMPIONSHIP 
Qulxotl~;, Quint 

Iceman, Slider, Maverick, Goose 
Kulka, Fran, Ollie How About a Game ol Hoops? 14 
14 and 2 Other Players 
21 Quixotic: Quint 4-25 ST1 3:00 Still Having Fun 
13 

Quixotic: Quint 
21 

4'24 ST2 6:00
4'24 ST2 5:00 
Still Having Fun 

Quixotic: Quint
21 21 
Source: Women's Bookstore Basketball Comittee Observer Graphic I Laura Stanton and Pete Gagen 
Wilkins explodes for 43 for Hawks as Pacers fall behind in series, 2-0 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Dominique Wilkins scored 43 points and Kevin Willis connected on a short hook shot with 58 seconds remaining as the Atlanta Hawks held off the Indiana Pacers in the closing seconds Sunday night for a 94-93 NBA playoff victory. 
The triumph gave the Hawks a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 series. Game 3 is Wednesday night in Indiana. 
The Pacers' John Long, who scored 12 of his 14 points in the final period, missed a 15-foot jumper from the foul line with two seconds left that could have given Indiana the victory. 
Chuck Person, who led the Pacers with 24 points, hit a pair of free throws with 42 seconds left, cutting Atlanta's lead to 94-93. 
The Hawks then failed to get off a shot within the allotted 24 seconds and Indiana took over with 17 seconds remaining, set­ting up the shot by Long that hit the rim and bounced away. 
Wilkins rallied Atlanta after the Pacers had taken a 69-60 lead with 5:14 left in the third period. 
Long, however, then got hot and scored 12 of Indiana's next 17 points to give the Pacers a 90-88lead with 2: 29left. Atlanta took the lead on a rebound bas­ket by Wayne "Tree" Rollins at 92-91 with 1:24 to go. 
Wilkins, the NBA's second-

ELEGANT PASSAGE JS BACK with their spring line of cottons  

We promised you these last fall-cotton sweaters, pants, shirts,, blouses, and the "famous" Baha shirt. All prices below wholesale. See you on April 27 through May 1. Lafortune Student Center -Main Floor  


~~ing~oc&,~oc~~p~~~ti~e·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
during a 17-2 run that gave the ~ .., = game victory Friday night. Webb had 12 points and 14 as­sists. 
When Willis, who finished with eight points, hit his last­minute hook shot, it was the first time he had scored since the second period. 
The Pacers, behind Wayman Tisdale's 13 second-quarter points, had taken a 42-33 lead before the Hawks ran off a 17-4 string that put Atlanta ahead 50-46. But Indiana scored the last four points of the half. 
Wilkins scored 16 of Atlanta's 21 third-period points as the third quarter ended in a 71-71 
Quint 
continued from page 16 
Both teams made several trips down the court with a lot of agressive play. Willis took a pass from Ann Curoe to cut the Quint lead to four, but Richter's jumper from 15 feet put the game on the books, 21-16. 
"Colleen (Donnelly) did a great job," said England. "She really shut them down when we needed it." 
Both teams had to play very well to get into the Champion­ship Game. Double Decker used an incredible advantage in strength, size, and quicknes~ to appear practically in­destructible in beating We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School, 2.1-8. They followed it up with a closer match against Still Having Fun, showing great balance in winning 21-13. Carolyn Burke had five points for the Cookie, and each team­mate contributed four to over­come the outside bombing of Mary Beth Borkowski, who was this year's Miss Bookstore. 
The Quixotic Quint also had a tough road, overcoming Kukla, Fran, Ollie and Two Other Players, 21-14 behind great teamwork and the rebounding of Brommeland. The Hoosier Lawyers??? were next up for the Quint. In the best game of the tournament, the Quint overcame the tough, talented Hoosiers with a Rich­ter free throw that won the game, 21-19. Both teams were worthy of a victory in this one, but the Quint proved them­selves as a great team when they held off the final surge of the Hoosiers. 
"Our fans really got us going," said Quint team mem­ber England. "Our foul shoot­ing was up from last year. Our defense came through today, and we played well enough to win the game." 
So the 1987 tournament ends with the Quixotic Quint taking their place as champions of Wo­rnen's Bookstore Basketball. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
~ ~ 
NEED A NEW 
SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT liT FOR 131 WAYS TO: 
GMAC College Graduate Finance has your answer!
Get a head start
~ 

Fill prerequisites
~ 

Buy the car of your choice with 
Make up a course
~ 

no credit necessary
Speed up graduation
~ 

Hawks a 77-71 lead with 1:43 gone in the final period. Spud Webb started in place of the injured Glenn "Doc" 
ATTENTION Rivers, who hurt his left ankle in the Hawks' 110-94 opening 
GRADUATES 
CAR? Plan 
• 131 undergraduate or graduate courses to 
-verifiable commit ~ 
choose from 

• 8 week summer session-June 15 to August 8 
for employment \~e~ 
• 
Day and evening classes 


• 
Convenient locations-Main Campus, liT West -90 days until and Extension Centers first payment 

• 
Ample FREE parking 



You can register by mail. 

FOR INFORMATION CALL TOLL FREE: 
Outside Illinois 1-800-448-2329 
Ask for: Mary Edwards 
liD 

ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 3300 South Federal Street Chicago, Illinois 60616 




~ 
r---------------~--~--~-­
The Observer 

Executive Committee are noI available in the S udent Government Office. pplications must be returned y Thursday, April 30. 

Brown 
continued from page 16 
dished off to Donald Royal un­derneath, kicked out to either Wes Shorter or Kim Adams, or got fouled on his way to the bas­ket, the result was usually an­other Manhood score. 
The game began with both teams exchanging jump shots en route to a three-all tie. Bas­kets by Royal, Adams and Brown gave Manhood a 6-3 lead, a lead that they would never relinquish. Leone's stayed close until the end of the half, behind Bill Sullivan's five points, and trailed at the inter­mission, 11-9. The Stallions were able to neutralize Man­hood's height advantage under­neath in the early going, but left Shorter and Adams free to pop from the outside. 
Ironically, the two non­varsity athletes on Da' Brot­hers and the only players on the court under six feet tall (Shorter and Adams) com­bined for 13 of Manhood's 21 points, hitting long jumpers to give their squad much-needed breathing room in the second half. 
"We concentrated on shut­ting them down underneath," said AI Martin of the Stallions' game plan. "We didn't think the little guys would hit the jumpers like they did." 
With the score 12-10 early in the second half, Shorter tallied his team's next three points on bombs from the outside to put Manhood up 15-11, and Da' Brothers saw their visions of the title come close to being realized. Shorter said he was happy to be able to contribute as much as he did in the cham­pionship game. In earlier rounds, Da' Brothers relied heavily on their inside game, with the brunt of the scoring being done by Royal and Joel Williams. But Shorter never doubted that, given the chance, 
Monday, April 27, 1987 -page 13 
he and Ad~ms could come 
through. 
"There wasn't any set plan 
for Kim and I to shoot like we 
did," said Shorter after going 
6-of-7 in the contest. "They 
(Leone's) collapsed on Donald 
down low and they just couldn't 
get back when he kicked it back 
out. Fortunately, we were hit­
ting from out there. I felt pretty 
good shooting the ball, and we 
were open a lot of the time." 
Sandwiched between 
Shorter's fourth and fifth points 
came a brief, yet intense, al­
tercation between the two 
teams. Mter pulling down a de­
fensive rebound, Royal threw 
an elbow at Leone's Sullivan as 
Sullivan had his hands in 
Royal's face trying to prevent 
a fast break. No call was made, 
and as the two players headed 
upcourt, minor jostling 
progressed into a scuffle that 
eventually included most 
members of both teams. 
The incident was quickly bro­
ken up by the referees, but 
seemed to be an indication of 
the Stallions' frustration with 
the game's officiating. Not a 
single foul had been called on 
Manhood in the first half, while 
Leone's had been tagged with 
eleven. 
"The referees were in­
timidated by them 
(Manhood)," commented Mar­
tin, Leone's intense 
playmaker. "The officiating 
was awful." 
Royal went 5-of-7 from the field and denied the Stallions from putting up second and third shots by dominating the defensive boards. He ripped down 11 rebounds, and slapped away several shot attempts. Sullivan had eight points for the Stallions, who finished as runner-up in the tournament for the second consecutive year. 
"Last year, it was a big thing 
to reach the finals," said the 
sharp-shooting Sullivan. "This 
year, we were confident that 
we could make it to the finals, 
and it's a little disappointing 
that we couldn't win it. Losing 
was a letdown, but we're happy 
that we reached the finals 
again." 
Six of the Elite Eight bowed out on Friday and Saturday, in­cluding defending champion and top seed (and some reporters' pick to win it all), Party at Chips When We Repeat. It was 4 Slammma Jamma that broke up the Party with a convincing 21-16 upset, as Scott Hicks and Chris Perozek led Slamma with eight points each. 
"They really prepared well for us," said Party at Chips' point guard Bubba Cunnin­gham. "We couldn't get in synch, and we didn't seem to be able to get any bounces. We didn't play as well as we would have liked." 
In previous action over the weekend, Leone's pulled out two, 22-20 overtime wins. Friday, they nipped New Or­der, and in Saturday's semi­final, they ended 4 Slamma Jamma's dreams for the title. Da' Brothers of Manhood knocked off Corporate Raiders, 21-16, after trailing 11-8 at the half. The next day they downed Tequila White Lightning, 21-19. 
According to Tournament Commissioner Steve Wenc, the tournament ran extremely smoothly and, in his words, "everything was copacetic." Great interest in the tourney and attendance at games in­volving Final 16 teams indi­
cates that things might be copacetic for at least a few more years. 

~·~~~:~::..t 
4<24 BK10 5:00 
4 Slemma Jammo 
Leone'a Stallion• 
BK S:OO
4124 9 

_N_•w_or_d•_•____, 

Source· Bookatore Basketball XVI ComiHee 
!"a'\ANVTHNII 
MOfW! 

333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 
Brothers 
Are Da' Champs Tequila White Lightning 
16 
19
1-4-S_I•_m_ma_J_•m_m_e_..., 20 

Leone'a Stolllona 15
4<25 ST1 5:00 
21 

CHAMPIONSHIP Do' Brothora ol Manhood 
22 
Do' Brothora 21 of Manhood 
Leono'a Stolllona 

22 21 
20 
21 
Tequila White Lightning 
10 
16 
4<25 ST1 8:00 
De' Brother• ol Manhood

'--------1 4124 BK10 8:00 De' Brothera 
21 

of Manhood Observer Graphic I Laura Stanton and Pete Gagen 

Yanks thump Cleveland 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Tommy John pitched a one-hitter over seven innings and Dave Winfield had three hits and drove in four runs as the New York Yankees routed the Cleveland Indians 14-2 Sunday. 
John, who pitched seven shutout innings against Kansas City last Sunday, struck out four and walked one. The left­bander retired 14 Indians on groundouts in improving his career record against Cleveland to 19-12. 
• Unlt.dWIIU 


BE A PART OF WELCOMING THE CLASS OF 1991! Applications for the Freshman Orientation 
4<24 BK9 5:00 
Who'a Next ... Who Cor..? 
Corporate Raldera 
~---------~­
The Observer Monday, April 27, 1987-page 14 
Lacrosse teant splits in weekend blowouts 
By CHRIS DALLAVO 
Sports Writer 
One thing is certain about this weekend's lacrosse action -there were goals. Plenty of goals. The only problem Satur­day was that Ohio Wesleyan had most of them, as they beat the Fighting Irish by a score of 17-5. "Serene Sunday" proved to be a different story, however, as the Irish rebounded to crush Wittenburg 26-1. 
"We knew we were in for a fight (with Ohio Wesleyan) and we got one," said Notre Dame head coach Rich O'Leary. "They played extremely well. They could possibly be the best team we've ever played." 
O'Leary's praise was well­deserved, as the Battling Bis­hops, the second-ranked Divi­sion III team in the nation, jumped out to a 5-0 lead. John McLachlan and John Olmstead rallied the Irish, combining for three goals in the second per­iod, but Ohio Wesleyan coun­tered with three of their own, making the halftime score 8-3. 
The third period was much like the first, as Ohio Wesleyan, behind Rob Alvino and Kevin Crooks, fired in four straight goals, while the Notre Dame of­fense went into hiding. 
"We worked very, very hard on defense, and we were able to contain them fairly well," noted O'Leary. "But they wore us down. Our defense got tired, and they wound up scoring." 
The Irish refused to die, as Jim Shields tallied in the fourth period, and then Randy McDonald notched his first career goal for Notre Dame. The Battling Bishop's proved to be just too much, however, as they added five goals to make the final score 17-5. 
Sunday was notably better, as the Irish buried the Witten­berg Tigers with an eleven-goal barrage in the first period, and never looked back en route to the 26-1 victory. Fourteen dif­ferent Notre Dame players scored, and when it was over, the Irish had the largest mar­gin of victory, twenty-five goals, in its lacrosse history. 
Brew Crew wins again 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Juan Castillo hit his first major-league home run and the Milwaukee Brewers improved their record to 16-1 by completing a three­game sweep of the Baltimore Orioles with a 5-3 victory Sun­day. 
The Brewers took a 2-0 lead in the third on singles by Bill Schroeder and Castillo and Robin Yount's triple. Mil­waukee went ahead 3-0 in the fourth when ob Deer tripled and scored on Cecil Cooper's groundout. 
In the mth, Orioles starter Mike Flanagan, 0-3, gave up a single to Jim Paciorek before Castillo homered to give the Brewers a 5-0 lead. 
Milwaukee starter Mike Birkbeck, 1-0, limited the Orioles to three hits through the first five innings before yield­ing two runs in the sixth. 
Dan Plesac, the third Mil­waukee pitcher, pitched the final 1 1-3 innings to record his sixth save. 
Bookstore Basketball Lists 
"It was a case where every­thing we did worked, and everything they did failed," ob­served O'Leary. "(Wittenberg) was a little out­manned today." 
Notre Dame scored virtually at will. McLachlan led the as­sault with six points, and Brian McHugh and Jeff Shay chipped in with four points apiece. 
The rout allowed O'Leary to rest his starters for most of the game, as he took them out leading 15-1 with ten minutes remaining in the second period. 
"We have a lot of games in a short period of time, and we were fortunate to be able to spread around the playing time," commented O'Leary, referring to this week's con­tests against Michigan State and Ohio State. "Our season is on the line, and we need to have everyone ready to play." 
Both of the games will be on the road, Wednesday at Mic­higan State and then Saturday at Ohio State. Both are also conference games, and will decide the Great Lakes Lacrosse Conference champi­onship. 


The following awards were chosen by the Bookstore Basketball XVI Committee: 
Golden Hatchet Award Mike Kovaleski of Party at Chips When We Repeat, for the most prolific fouling and hacking display 
lronman Award (playing with pain or Injury, gutsy per­
formance, etc.) John Coffey of Mr. Coffey and the Non­Dairy Creamers, who was injured at the 12th point of a game, but scored six of the final 12 points in leading his team to a 24-22 victory 
Hoosier Award (for gunning and missing with extreme 
regularity) Mark "Beernuts" Williams of Team No. 164, who was 3-of-28 from the field. He led all scorers on his team 
All-Star Game MVP Tony Rice of Carte Blanche, who scored six points in the classic 
Tournament MVP Wes Shorter of Da' Brothers of Manhood, as presented by Donald Royal, the Bookstore Basketball XVI Committee's choice lor MVP. 
Mr. Bookstore John "Booger" Buscher of Corporate Raiders 
Third Team All-Bookstore Dick Prosen of Malandros Dave Moorman of NO Law Mike DiPaolo of Who's Next... Who Cares? Will Anderson of Ballheaded Freakdaddies Paul Bruer of 4 Fags and a Zahmbie 
Second Team All-Bookstore AI Martin of Leone's Stallions Wes Shorter of Da' Brothers of Manhood Mike Scotty of Tequila White Lightning Gary Sasse of Leone's Stallions Tim Crawford of New Order 
First Team All-Bookstore Brian Koehr of Tequila White Lightning Bill Sullivan of Leone's Stallions Chris Perozek of 4 Slamma Jamma Ken Schuermann of Ed Smerciak's Last Hurrah John Buscher of Corporate Raiders 
AII-Holtz Team Tim Brown of Da' Brothers of Manhood Joel Williams of Da' Brothers of Manhood Matt Dingens of Tequila White Lightning Steve Bauerlein of Party at Chips When We Repeat Tony Rice of Carte Blanche 
The following special awards were chosen by sportswriters Pete Skiko and Brian O'Gara: 
The Dunk-0-Manla Award Tony Rice of Carte Blanche, for scoring all six of his second-round points on dunks 
The Manute Bot Award Joel Williams of Da' Brothers of Manhood, for swatting a blocked shot a country mile at Stepan AI Martin of Leone's Stallions, for thinking nothing of recording two consecutive blocks of a female participant in the tournament 
The You-Must-Be-Crazy Award Lou Holtz of Verkler Construction, for taking a charge on Donald Royal 
The 1-Made-No-Frlenda Award The referees, for taking the abuse of slightly biased fans 
The Moat Courageous Award The three blind players on Blind Ambition, for seeing the true spirit of Bookstore Bas­ketball 
The Water Hazard Award Dick Addis of WNDU, for sending rain and snow to the Bookstore Basketball courts 
The Steve Nlcgorakl Free Throw Award Donald Royal of Da' Brothers of Manhood, for missing tlwee potential game-winning or game-tying free throws in overtime against The Killer Bees after shooting 83 percent from the line for the varsity bas­
ketball team 

The Indiana State Pollee Award Bart Timm of Ex-MBA Proposition 48 Intel­lectuals, for driving six hours from Cleveland to play in a Bookstore game and getting a speeding ticket on the way 
The Surprise, Surprise Award SOMFAW and Verkler's Construction, for going farther in the tourney than expected and taking 4 Slamma Jamma and Da' Brot­hers of Manhood, respectively, to within two points of an upset 
The 

It-Seams-Like-An-Easy-Enough-Job 
Award Commissioner Steve Wenc and Assistant Commissioners Tad Beccheti, Mike Ruff, John Lake, Rich Burns, Jenny Hallenbeck, Pat Ryan and Warren Berry, for dedicating hours of time to this crazy little thing called Bookstore Basketball 
Observer Graphic I Pete Gegen 

']I['4(Jt~4tll~----------------------------------------------------------M•o•nd•a•y•,A•p•r•il•2•7,•1•98•7•-•p•ag•e•1-5 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
This Week: 
Wednesday and Thursday-Bugs Bunny Film Festiva Friday and Saturday-Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex 
Sponsored by SAB 


YER HOM€ l  MILO, If rM tvtr< fOI(C€CJ trJ 5HI/f(£ 1/tVOTHtf< UP WfTH HIM 11&11/N, 51(()()1 Aft.  '!;~' 1lft 6f/Y HilS MN !rlcr?t VIV!flLY t.IISCIV!(}(J8 ~IIM5 1/81}1/T VIINNII WHIT8 1lfi/N M& . I  
"  

BeerNuts 
11:45 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: h:conomics De­partment Development Workshop, "Toward a Theoretical View of Inflation in Latin America," by Prof. Antonio Kan­dir, 13 Decio 
4:00 p.m.: Dept. of Music Recital, An­thony Elliott, Guest Cello, Annenberg Auditorium 
4:15p.m.: Jacques Maritain Center John 
M. Olin Lecture, "Catholic Equation: Fact or Fiction?" by Ronald McArthur, president of Thomas Aquinas College, Santa Paula, California, Memorial Li­brary Lounge 
4:30 p.m.: Dept. of Earth Sciences American Associated Petroleum Geologists Distinguished Lecture, "Diagenetic History of Pennyslvania Fan­Delta Arkosic Sandstone, Anadarko Basin: Geochemistry, Paleohydrology, and Resevoir Quality," by Dr. Shirley Dutton, Univ. of Texas, Austin, 101 Earth Sciences Building 
7:00 p.m.: Shakespeare Club Film, "King Lear," with Paul Scofield, free, En­gineering Auditorium 
7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Stardust Memories," 1980, bW, 89 minutes, directed by Woody Allen, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:00p.m.: Panel Discussion, "Juniors: Learn About Planning Your Job Search," sponsored by Arts and Letters Business Society and the Finance Club, 221 Hayes Healy 
7:30 p.m.: Poetry Reading, Philip Holmes, British poet and mathematician, will read from his recent poetry. Prof. Holmes is currently professor in the Depts. of Theoretical and Applied Mec­hanics and Mathematics at Cornell Uni-

'I 
' '1 

!Y/an, Bernie/ you're q mess!. .. You ain'f :tchin' a"lwhere, are yo11? 
!&m, I had a C'~t oh rny ley Y~rs CIJO and-~ did ;f ilch!•.. Drove me crazy! Y'Know wM/1'm say;n'l.. 'Cause yov can•t scn~fcn it y'.tnow ... 
Don't think ~:?bout ifch1n9 anywner~ J?ernie, 'cquse i'f'l/ driv~ )'Oil mds! 
Mark Williams 
AN T05TAll5 THE BEST! 
versity and also director of the Univer­sity's Center for Applied Mathematics, Memorial Library Lounge 
8:00 p.m.: Nieuwland Lecture in Chemistry, "Structure-Function Studies of Enzyme Action Via Site-Directed Mutagenesis,'' by William Rutter, Hertzstein Professor of Biochemistry and Director of the Hormone Research In­stitute, University of California, San Fran­cisco, 123 Nieuwland Science 
8:00p.m.: ND Department of Theology and the Center for Philosophy of Religion and the Institute for Advanced Study of Religion at the University of Chicago Divinity School Lecture, "In the Begin­ning God Created ... ", Prof. Seymour Feldman, Dept. of Philosophy, Rutgers University, Library Auditorium 
9:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Blind Alley, 1939, bW, 72 minutes, di­rected by Charles Vidor, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Veal Parmesan Turkey Turnover Baked Sole with Rice Dressing Italian Sausage Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Beef Spaghetti with Meat and Marinara Sauce Stuffed Green Peppers Deli Bar 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Obscure 5 Chemical 
compound 10 Space 14 Mona­15 That place 16 Rain hard 17 Last word 18 Cache 19 El-, Tex. 20 Saloon 
appurtenance 22 Extend inward 24 Kiln for hops 25 Star of a kind 26 Abash 29 Thespian's 
part 341nns 36 Augury 37 Equivoque 38 Footless 39 Norman V. ­41 Trading center 42 Sow's home 43 Land: abbr. 44 More costly 46 Alpine flower 49 Saltpeter: Br. 50 Sidekick 51 Jab 53 Display 
ostentatiously 56 On-site aide 60 Tender 61 Horses 63 lr. river 64 Pot pool 65 lt. river 


66 "Damn Yankees" 26 Configuration heroine 27 Had good 67 Hog expectations 
68 lsr. statesman 28 Expiate 
69 River in 30 Autocrats Belgium 31 School of painting DOWN 32 Siren 1 Squeal 33-nous 

2 Bean  35 Motorist's  
3 Consumer  bane  
4 Redeemed  40 Huron's  
by paying  neighbor  48 Soak up  56 Tresses  
5 Mores  41 Girlish  52 Tricks  57 Catcalls  
6 Plant growths  43 One of two  53 Excess fat  58 Heraldic band  
7 Duck  45 -Slaughter  54 Gauzy fabric  59 Twelvemonth  
8 Slip  47 Sir Harry - 55 Square pillar  62 Plndarlc poem  

C>1987 Tribune Media Servlcas, Inc. 4/27/87All Rights Reserved 
9 Charged at 
the passer 1 0 Seem 11 Gather 12 Otherwise 13 Like -of 
bricks 21 Chin. money 23 Flat 25 Brad 



(;reen pounds White in 57th 
Johnson, Green impressive in Blue squad's 24-7 victory r 
Anthony Johnson had a good outing at fullback 
see GREEN, page 11 

in the Blue-Gold Game. Dennis Corrigan has 
S~orts 
AI Martin of Leone's Stallions attempts a shot over Tim Brown of Da' Brothers of Manhood in the Bookstore Basketball Finals. Pete Skiko 

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
It wasn't easy, but the Quixotic Quint won the Wo­men's Bookstore Tournament Championship yesterday at the Stepan courts. The Quint, be­hind the gutty play and high scoring of Regie Richter, dethroned last years champs, Double Decker Oreo Cookie, 21­16. 
"We really wanted it," said winning team member Kara England. "We had to work hard 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Irish outside linebacker coach Barry Alvarez is a new­comer to Head Coach Lou Holtz's staff, but Saturday he resorted to an old Notre Dame ploy, in coaching his Blue squad to a 24-7 win over the Gold squad in the 57th annual Blue-Gold Game. 
Spring Football '87 
lead on a Mark Green one-yard dive. 
From there, the Green went on to control the game on both sides of the ball. The Green piled up 371 yards of total of­fense (213 on the ground) while limiting the Gold to 167 yards of total offense and yards rushing. While numbers may seem whelming, Holtz 
the result. 
"I don't think there's an aw­ful lot you can tell from a spring game," said Holtz, watched the game from press box. "I wasn't there, but I'm told the hitting was very good. There were far 

the details from the annual spring game at left. 
to get it, and we did." 
Both teams started playing tough defense and forc­ing turnovers, until Bennett opened the scoring for the Cookie. After the court was cleared of Oreos thrown by the rowdy Cookie crowd, teams continued cold until basket by Lavetta Willis put the Cookie up by two. 
The Quint was playing tough, swarming defense, but it was slow on offense until Col­leen Donnelly put her team on the board with a rebound goal, 


Or was it the Green-Gold game? Showing he's no stranger to Irish legend, Al­varez had his charges put on the green jerseys before taking the field. The psych ploy seemed to have an effect, as the newly-named Green team took the opening kickoff and marched 75 yards to take a 7-0 


