
Revue Review -Campus Scene 

VOL. XXI, NO. 81 FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 1987. 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Grand jury returns sealed indictment 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
A St. Joseph County grand jury returned a sealed indictment Thursday, one day after it reviewed three fatal traffic accidents, including the one that killed junior Michael Cogswell. 
Because information about the indict­ment was not released, it was not publicly known whether the jury in­dicted the Notre Dame student arrested in connection with Cogwell's death. 
A source told The Observer, however, that the student will be charged with a misdemeanor. 
The source, who requested anonymity, said he did not know what the specific charge would be. He said he obtained the information from an administrator at the county prosecu­tor's office. 
County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said information about indictment 
Jones 
won't be released until the person
Color provided by Anheuser -Busch, Inc. 
charged is arrested. He added that he expected the arrest to be made today 
see JURY, page 4 
Senate rejects congressional raises 
Aquino orders justice 
With a 50 percent chance of snow today, bikes like this one parked recently at St. Ed's face the threat of being buried until spring. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate voted Thursday to turn down a $12,100 pay raise scheduled to take effect next week, throwing the sticky political question to the House. 
The vote was 88-6. 
Unless the House also turns down the 15.6 percent increase, it will automatically take effect Feb. 4, setting congressional pay at $89,500. 
An amendment proposed by Sen. Gordon Humphrey, R­N.H., and tacked on to the homeless emergency aid bill that cleared the Senate late Thursday would force the House to take up the question. 
The Humphrey amendment, passed by voice vote, would kill the pay raises and require the cherish the virtue of com­passion, we shall have jus­tice in this case, for we must
'Equal' sweetener targeted by threat 
Associated"Press 
SKOKIE, Ill. -A tampering threat concerning 50-count boxes of _Equal artificial sweetener m Chicago-area Dominick's Finer Foods has prompted the grocery chain to withdraw all of the product from its shelves, officials say. 
Robert Durbin, a spokesman for the Equal Consumer Prod­ucts Co., said lot No. 6JlOP141 of 50-count boxes of Equal was identified in the threat con­tained in a letter received at the company's Skokie House to deal with the question when it meets to resolve differ­ences between the homeless aid bills passed by the two chambers. 
A house task force will hold hearings on the pay raises Mon­day and Tuesday, but the full House doesn't meet again until Tuesday and some lawmakers have indicated the Democratic House leadership has no inten­tion of putting the issue to a vote on the floor. 
"The average family in the United States earns $27,735 per year," said Sen. Strom Thur­mond, R-S.C. "few Americans understand the need for these large increases when they have to struggle to make ends meet on salaries much lower than ours." 
headquarters Thursday mor­ning. 
The letter was postmarked Gary, Ind., the 14th tampering threat to come from that city since October. 
It came on the heels of a warning by the Illinois Depart­ment of Public Health that con­sumers should not use 32-ounce bottles of Borden ReaLemon Juice because of possible tam­pering. 
That warning was issued Wednesday after an anonymous letter, also from Gary, contended the product had been poisoned, said .Dr. 
The pending increase comes on top of a 3 percent cost of 
for rebels' coup plot 
living increase that took effect 
Jan. 1, making congressional paychecks $77,400 a year. 
Associated Press "We can talk about how dif­
MANILA, Philippines ­ficult it is to survive in Wash­ington, D.C., on the present President Corazon Aquino on Thursday ordered thepayscale but that doesn't wash," Sen. Jesse Helms, R­
prosecution of soldiers and N.C., said. "Folks back home 
civilians who took part in an make a fraction of what we 
attempted coup and said the make." 
"gravity of the crime" was Some senators said they did 
not lessened by their peace­not deserve a pay raise when 
ful surrender. other Americans were being 
The government also said asked to tighten their belts. 
it thwarted an attempt by "The bottom line is this: if 
former President Ferdinand you're going to lead, you have 
Marcos to return to the got to set the example," Sen. 
Philippines from his exile in Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said. 
Hawaii. "These raises in my opinion 
One Cabinet minister are obscene," added Sen. 
linked Marcos to the coup Quentin Burdick, D-N.D. 
plot. "While we continue to 
have respect for the law,"Bernard Turnock, department Aquino said, a few hoursdirector. 
after about 250 rebelliousThe letter about the troops and civilians surren­ReaLemon Juice was sent to dered at a downtown televi­the product's Columbus, Ohio­sion station. 
based manufacturer, Borden The mutineers were theCo. No evidence of tampering last holdout~ from about 500has been found after the previ­rightist soldiers who tried toous threats. 
take over key communica­Turnock asked that 32-ounce tions and military installa­
bottles of the juice with the code X27JAN88W be removed 
tions around Manila on from shelves at Chicago-area 
Tuesday. It was the most serious challenge toJewel Food Stores. He said fur­ther inquiries should be ad­
Aquino's government since dressed to the FBI, which has 
she took power last February. see EQUAL, page 4 
She has faced down other rebellions, the most serious of which was a coup bid last November by soldiers linked to then Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile. Some of her supporters have criticized what until now has been an apparent willing­ness to pardon the plotters, saying it could foster mutinous tendencies. 
Except for the group at the studios of Channel 7, the rebels were quickly neutralized, with one rebel soldier killed and 16 others wounded in a brief battle at an Air Force base adjacent to the Manila airport. 
"The gravity of the of­fense is not lightened, and the damage inflicted on per­sons and property is not diminished by the per­petrators' change of heart," Aquino said in a speech at the installation of a univer­sity president. 
She said she had ordered Defense Minister Rafael Ileto to begin court-martial proceedings against the sol­diers and instructed Justice Minister Neptali Gonzales to charge the civilians with 
see REBELS, page 5 
-------~ ----­
Friday, January 30, 1987-page 2 
The Observer 
In Brief 
Catherine Mustacchia, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate, a Government and Japanese major, has been selected as recipient of the 1987 Japanese Government (Momusho) Scholarship Award for Graduate Students. Mustacchia is the first woman student from the University to win this award.She will be the eighth student from the University to pass the Ministry Examination for Graduate Students. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Opening receptions for exhibits by artists Ruth Sinclair ana Robert Erkshire, previously scheduled for last Friday, have been rescheduled for tonight from 7-9 in the Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
A Spanish Mass, sponsored by The Center For Social Concerns, will be celebrated in the Farley Hall chapel on Sunday at 11 a.m. with Rev. Don McNeil, C.S.C. presiding. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
Jeffre;r. Jacob, Associate Professor of Music at Saint Mary's, will present a recital of piano works ranging from George Crumb to Robert Schumann on Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. -The 
Observer ' 
Prospective candidates for Student Body Pres­ident, VIce-President and Student Senator are invited to attend an informational meeting Monday at 6:30 in 343 Nieuwland Science Hall. A mandatory meeting for these candidates will be held on Wednesday at 6:30 in Nieuwland Science Hall. Elections will be conducted on Tuesday, February 17. -The Observer 
The International Student Organization will hold a general meeting Saturday at 4: 30 in the ISO Lounge. Following the meeting will be a pizza party. -The Observer 
"What Catholics Should Know About Church," the first in a five part series sponsored by University Ministry, will be presented Sunday and Tues­day from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Keenan chapel. -The Observer 
The 1987 CILA Workshop begins tonight with a talk "Central America's Challenge to Our Politics and Faith" at 8 p.m. at the Center For Social Concerns. Sat­urday's workshop, "Living the Challenge of a Simple Life­style," will be presented from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. at The Center For Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Network Of United Sisters will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the Black Cultural Arts Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Guest speaker will be Dr. Rosemary Phelps. -The Observer 
A Gospel Choir Concert, beginning the cele­bration of Black History/Awareness Month, will be pre­sented Sunday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Weather 


Deolgn Editor ............ Mark McLaughlin Accent Copy Editors .......... Mary Jacoby Dealgn Aaalotant ............. Tory Schiesser .........................................Cindy Petrites Typeaeltera .. ..... ......... ...... Shawn Sexton Accent Layout................ Ann Biddlecom ........................................ Chris Reardon ............................................ Karen Webb New• Editor..-..................... Regis Coccia Typl•t ................................ Esther Ivory Copy Edltora ....................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler ............................................. Chris Julka SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Radar Sporll Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch Ad De1lgn ....................... Peter Georges VIewpoint Copy Editor .. Gertie Wimmer Photographers ................. Suzanne Poch Vlewpolntl.ayoul .......... Melissa Warnke ........................................... Robert Jones 
Color in today's issue was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile Oblener (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. The Oblernr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S.W per year ($2~ per semester) by writing Tile Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S~6. 
TM O!Mener is a member of The Aaodated Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Covering the 'Nude Olympics:' Just what should newspapers bare? 

Some wore nothing but running shoes and ski masks. Others just wore running shoes. 
Despite temperatures in the teens, 20 naked students ran around a snow-covered quad at Purdue University last week, continuing an an­nual tradition that's lasted more than 25 years. 
The Purdue "Nude Olympics." 
According to press accounts, about 3,500 people watched the "athletes" this year. A group of women even came to the Olympics with scorecards to rate the runners, all of whom were male. 
In the past, nude students, both male and female, ran circles around the quad until only one remained, the Indiana Daily Student said. But beginning with last year's ban by Purdue's president, campus police have broken up the race early by arresting runners. This year police arrested 20 students. 
As always, press coverage of the event was heavy. Television cameras filmed the scene for viewers back home, and the Associated Press sent a story over the wires. 
The Daily Student sent a reporter and two photographers from Bloomington, and the Purdue Exponent had two reporters and a photographer covering the event. 
The photographers got several good shots, including some showing runners from the front. The photos, however, left the student editors with a dilemma: What photos would they use, and where would they crop them? 
The Daily Student ended up running three photos. One of the pictures showed a runner from the front, but it was cropped high enough to make it appropriate for family viewing. 
The decision to crop the photo that high caused a lot of controversy at the Daily Student, News Editor Garret Ewald said. "We struggled with (that) one picture," said Ewald, who was in favor cropping the photo a little lower. 
The way the photo ran "took away the essence of the event," he said. "It no longer looks like the 'Nude Olympics.' It looks like people went out and ran around in shorts." 
Ewald wasn't in favor of showing full frontal nudity, of course. But he wanted to make it clear the runner had no clothes on. 
Ewald said most of the editors agreed with him. He explained that the opinion to crop the photo lower was "fostered by our being a col­lege newspaper, that we should challenge the traditional way of doing things." 
"We were really gung-ho. We were saying, 'Let's go for it. The New York Times wouldn't publish it .... We have a chance now to do it. So let's do it.' " 
Mark Pankowski 
News Editor 

The Daily Student's publisher, a paid em­ployee who's not a student, warned the staff not to crop the photo too low, Ewald said. Mter a three-hour discussion with some staff mem­bers, the editor-in-chief decided to crop the photo higher than most wanted. "She was afraid we would cross the line of decency," Ewald said. 
The Purdue Exponent printed two stories and two photos the day after the event. The larger of the photos showed a masked runner from behind, and left no doubt that he was a partic­ipant and not a spectator. 
Exponent Editor-in-Chief Mark Sabbe said running a picture of a bare-bottomed runner "is something that we do every year.'' 
"We run the best news photo we have," said Sabbe, adding that he hadn't received any com­plaints about the photo. 
Ewald said the Daily Student had a couple of similar photos, but the staff didn't consider printing them. "Running a rear shot is saying, 'We don't have either the guts or the stupidity to run a frontal shot. So we're going to cop out and run a rear shot,' " he said. 
"It may have come across as if we were trying to get something in there, just for the sake of the nudity." 
Present your student tO Tues·Thurs & receive 10% off your dinner. 


APPLICATIONS 
CLUB FUNDING 
FOR SECOND SEMESTER ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 3RDFLOOR, LaFortune. 
Deadline is Friday, January 30 
The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 3 

All the dorm's a stage
Cavanaugh Hall is preparing for its production 

Reagan to veto clean water bill 
Associated Press WASHINGTON  -President  Reagan would act. He has until Monday. The measure calls for $18 bil­ the necessary ride. Dole said  votes to Reagan  over­com­ 
.ij.eagan told congressional leaders Thursday he will veto an $18 billion clean water bill. Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas quoted Reagan as saying "right up front" that he was going to veto the clean water bill, which the GOP leader described as a "budget buster." House Majority Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said  lion for sewage treatment facilities and $2 billion for waterway cleanup over an eight-year period. It is vir­tually identical to a bill Congress passed in November, which the president killed by a pocket veto after the law­makers had adjourned. This time the House adopted it by a vote of 406-6 and the Sen­ate by a vote of 93-6. It takes two-thirds of both houses to  mented during the meeting that he realized his veto might be overridden. Dole also said he believed it probably would be. Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia offered an even stronger prediction, saying, "I'm confi­dent" that the veto will be over­ridden. Byrd defended the bill,  
White House officials had "sig­ override.  saying  it  "is  not  a  budget  
naled" that the president would veto the bill on Friday. White  House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, said a veto override  buster by any stretch of the im­agination." He said it calls for  
House  Spokesman  Larry  vote would be scheduled in the  less  money  than  was  being  
Speakes, however, said no deci­sion had been made on when  House on Tuesday, and he believes supporters will have  spent to fight water pollution when Reagan came to office.  

Shultz says 'strong ties' link Iran to kidnappers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George Shultz said Thursday there are "strong ties" between Iran and the kid­nappers of three Americans in Beirut, and he ruled out any deal to win the captives' freedom by dropping prosecu­tion of a Lebanese terrorist suspect. 
Shultz said of the shadowy groups claiming responsibility for abducting three Americans and eight other foreigners in Beirut: ''it is our basic infor­mation that with whatever names may emerge they are to a substantial degree linked to­gether." 
"And we also observe some very strong ties to Iran," he added. 
Shultz's comments, in a satellite news conference with reporters in Europe, Israel and Japan, supported a White House official who said Wed­nesday on condition he not be identified that the latest round of kidnappings are the work of a cell within Hezballah, or Party of God, a militant Mos­lem group with acknowledged ties to Iran. 
Officials had said previously they were not sure who was be­hind the latest abductions. 
Shultz's spokesman, mean­while, brushed aside a threat by the group holding the three Americans to kill the captives if the United States retaliates with military force. 
"We hold all captors, whoever they may be, respon­sible for the safety and well­being of the hostages," said State Department spokesman Charles Redman. "Our posi­tion concerning terrorism and hostage-taking is firm. We're not going to negotiate, make concessions, give in to terror­ists' demands." 
As to whether the adminis­tration has decided to retaliate if the hostages were killed, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said, "There are many options that are certainly avail­able to us, but I would not com­ment on any of them, particu­larly that one." 
The Pentagon said U.S. naval forces have bolstered their visibility in the Mediterranean Sea and Persian Gulf as a show of support to "our friends in the region" in light of intense fight­ing between Iran and Iraq and the deteriorating situation in Lebanon. 
Chief Pentagon spokesman Robert Sims added that the ship movements are needed to ensure that President Reagan "has all options available to him that he might choose." 
Three American instructors 
at Beirut University College, 
Alann Steen, Robert Polhill and 
Jesse Turner, were among the 
captives taken this month after 
West German authorities ar­
rested Mohammed Ali 
Hamadi, a Lebanese under in­
dictment in the United States 
on charges of hijacking a Trans 
World Airlines jetliner to 
Beirut in 1985. 
25¢  Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus.  
Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am  
Senior Club 12:00  Five Points (Goodwill) 12:03  Schedule Campus View/ Howard & N.D. Main SMC Library Turtle Creek St. Louis A artments Circle Hoi Cross Circle lv & Vaness 12:07 12:10 12:14 1'2:18 12:22 12:25  
12:30  12:33  12:37 12:40 12:44 12:48 12:52 12:55  
1:00  1:03  1:07 1:10 1:14 1:18 1:22 1:25  
1:30  1:33  1:37 1:40 1:44 1:48 1:52 1:55  
2:00  2:03  2:07 2:10 2:14 2:18 2:22 2:25  
2:30  2:33  2:37 2:40 2:44 2:48 2:52 2:55  
25¢  Mike Switek rides the Buzz Bus TONIGHT! 25¢  

I 
~ 


The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 4 
S.Africa makes Coetzee 'country's chief censor' 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -A judge nullified one of the police commissioner's press restrictions Thursday, and the government responded hours later with new emer­gency rules allowing him to ban "any matter" he chooses. 
An attorney who represents the news media, Paul Jenkins, said Police Commissioner Johan Coetzee had been "elevated to the country's chief censor." 
Judge H. Daniel of Rand Su­preme Court in Johannesburg invalidated an order Coetzee issued Jan. 8, the day after 22 newspapers published adver­tisements urging legalization of the African National Congress, the main guerrilla group fighting white-led rule. 
Government-controlled tele­vision had said two "gazettes" were being prepared in response. Laws and proclama­tions are effective only when published as "government gazettes." 
Coetzee gained his new powers with publication of the first gazette, and the Indepen­dent South African Press Asso­ciation said late Thursday a second was being printed. 
They are encompassed by stricter press restrictions President P.W. Botha promul­gated Dec. 11 under the state of emergency imposed on June 12, 1986. 
Under the new rules, "The commissioner may, for the purpose of the safety of the public, the maintenance of public order or the termination of the state of emergency, and without prior notice to any per­son and without hearing any person ... prohibit any publica­tion, television recording, film recording or sound recording 
Equal 
continuedfrom page 1 
investigated the previous tam­pering threats. 
In the sweetener threat, "Dominick's Finer Foods is cooperating fully with Equal Consumer Products, and as a precautionary measure, pack­ages of all sizes of Equal have been pulled from the shelves of all Dominick's stores," Durbin said. 
The manufacturer of the sweetener asked that custom-
Jury 
continuedfrom page 1 
or Monday. 
The six-member grand jury met Wednesday to review police records and listen to tes­timony in three fatal traffic ac­cidents. 
One of those accidents in­volved Cogswell, who died from massive head injuries 10 hours after being struck by a car on Dec. 6. A 21-year-old stu­dent was arrested on the charge of driving while intox­icated after he submitted to two blood-alcohol tests, police said. 
The prosecutor's office did not charge the student, but in­stead sent the case to the grand jury for review. The student containing any news, com­ment, or advertisement on or in connection with any matter specified in the order, to be published." 

Botha's December regula­tions severely restricted or banned reporting on unrest, se­curity force actions, treatment of detainees, most forms of peaceful protest and a broad range of statements the gov­ernment considers subversive. 
They are being challenged in 
the Pietermaritzburg Supreme 
Court of Natal province. 

By custom in South Africa, rulings by provincial supreme courts are followed throughout the country unless another su­preme court rules differently. In that case, the matter goes to South Africa's highest tribunal, the Court of Appeal. 
Commissioner Coetzee now appears to have the power to decide what matters are sub­ject to the existing regulation on "publication control," which covers both print and broadcast reports. 
According to the South African Press Association, the new regulations also appear to broaden the definition of sub­versive statements to now in­clude taking part in or support­ing the "campaigns, projects, programs or actions of violence or resistance against . . . the authority of the state" by an unlawful organization. 
After publication of the pro­ANC advertisements, Coetzee imposed a nationwide ban on publishing any news report, comment or advertisement that explained, defended, sup­ported or was calculated to en­hance the public image of the outlawed African National Congress. 
ers who have recently bought the 50-count boxes of the Equal in lot No. 6J10P141 to return the packages to the nearest Dominick's store for a refund or exchange. 
The lot number is embossed on the top flap of the product, Durbin said. 
Dean Schott, a spokesman for the Illinois Department of Public Health in Chicago, said the department has been notified and the FBI is inves­tigating. 
was then subpoenaed to testify before the jury. 
Notre Dame senior Douglas Meier said he was also sub­poenaed to testify at the hearing, which was closed to the public. Meier was driving in the area at the time of the accident. 

According to police, the 21­year-old student said he was driving east on Saint Mary's Road, stopped at a stop sign, then went forward and hit an unkown object. 
One of Cogswell's room­mates said Cogswell was walking home with two friends when he was struck. 
He said the two friends did not testify before the grand jury because they are par­ticipating in foreign-study pro­grams this semester. 
II 
The ObservertSuzanne Poch 

Paying heed to need 
Father Hesburgh converses with Sister Karuna the Annenberg Auditorium. See related story Mary Braganza at a lecture given Thursday in below. 
Poor are able, need chance, nun says 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 

The poor of India are fully capable of recognizing their needs and designing the pro­grams necessary to meet them, according to Sister Karuna Mary Braganza, General Sec­retary of the All India Associ­ation for Christian Higher Edu­cation. 
Speaking last night in a lec­ture entitled "The Culture of the Poor --Is Equitable Devel­opment Possible?" Braganza said, "The poor are able to per­ceive, to design, articulate and to implement their own plans if given the opportunity." 
Braganza, a Sacred Heart nun and Fulbright scholar, said the future of India does not lie in the words of politicians or in ,the thoughts of academia "but in the hands of the people." The problems the poor of India face will not be solved until govern­ments are willing to give up their prestige and allow the poor to "create a destiny from their own will," Braganza said. 
Braganza said, "the key to a paradigm of development" lies in the poor's "self-rule, produc­tion of local units and self­reliance," three requirements first stipulated by India's great champion of the poor, Mahatma Ghandi. She said the 
THEATRE­_ GUIDE . • 
SPECIAL STUDENT" PRICE 
At All Plitt Theatres 7 Days A Week! 
$3.50* 

Round Midnight (R) Dolby 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Crocodile Dundee (PG-13) 

1 :50, 3:50, 5:50, 7:50, 9:50 
poor must have their own markets in order that attempts at development will not be "dehumanizing." 
Braganza said the govern­ment's equal opportunity pro­grams have been ineffective because the government has lacked knowledge of the poor and their culture. She said In­dia's seven five-year economic plans "have misfired" against the poor and that the wrong techniques and methods have been used to meet an "unrealis­tic" 100 percent literacy target by 1999. In fact, the literacy rate has fallen, she said. 
According to Braganza, the development of the poor should not be at the expense of their culture. "Development by al­lowing the dynamics of the cul­ture to function" must be the method of progress, she said. 
Now QD)y at GOOr.ther's Plaa 
Get Twice As Much For Your Dough! Ask For ~~THE BIG V'' 
Two Special Pizzas for One Special Price 
Only '12.99 Now you can stretch your douldt even farther! Get 2 extra large 15" Godfath­er's Pizzas for only $12.99 (plUI·tu). One Su~r Pepperoni and One Four Topper 
(Beef, Pepperoni, Onion, Green Pepper). No coupon necessary. 
Just Ask for ~~THE BIG V'' 
(V le for Value) Sorry, no subetitutloDB Oft'er trood on carry--out or dellvery 

~Pizza. 
Flad one. It'• wol'th lt. 
"I think we have disregarded completely the attitudes, the style of life of the poor, and the arts," Braganza said. She noted recent religious struggles for dominance as symptoms of this loss of respect for culture. "In the name of God we are killing people," said Braganza. 
She said that the women of India are leading the efforts of what progress there is in India. "The women's movement has been quite spectacular," she said. According to Braganza, most of the nation's poor are women and children, but she described these poor as "hap­PY, resourceful and creative." 
In closing, Braganza said that progress must come from less reasoning and more com­mitment. "Movement will grow out of endeavor rather than thought," she said. 


--~----~-----­

The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 5 
Burtchaell, Maguire to debate abortion issue 
Special to The Observer published a controversial ad­vertisement of its "Catholic 
Father James Burtchaell, Statement on Pluralism and professor of theology at Notre Abortion'' in the October 7, 1984 Dame, and Daniel Maguire, edition of the New York Times. professor of theology at Mar­A past president of the Soci­quette University, will debate ety of Christian Ethics and au­the morality of abortion at 8 thor of several books, he has 
p.m. Feb. 9 at Washington Hall. written and lectured widely on The proposition will be: the subject of abortion. 
"Recent developments and Burtchaell, who joined Notre reflection provide authentic Dame's faculty in 1966, has reasons to reconsider the vir­served both as chairman of his 
tually total Christian disap­department and Universityproval of abortion.'' Burtchaell provost. He has written and lec­will argue on the negative side tured widely on abortion and and Maguire will argue on the infanticide as well as grace,positive side. marriage and pastoral care. 
According to present plans, His book "Rachel Weepingthe debaters will be provided and Other Essays on Abortion"30 minutes apiece for opening received a Christopher Award presentations and 10 minutes as one of the best books of 1982.

apiece for replies. Questions 
:~ .., 
from the floor will be enter­Admission to the debate will 
fll'~ 
tained for 30 minutes, and the require a ticket obtainable free 
} >:_>., ~ ~ 
debaters will be given five of charge on a first-come-first­
Yeah, that's the ticket The ObserveMluzanne Poch minutes each for summations. serve basis from the office of 
Jay Jan:et, left, and Jim Niemann anticipate making vacation plans at the campus travel Maguire, an ethicist, is a the theology department, 
spring break and warmer weather while agency. board member of Catholics for room 327, O'Shaughnessy a Free Choice, the group which Hall. 
Soviet writer attacks Brezhnev, Khrushchev in press 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A top Soviet com­mentator has published sting­ing personal attacks on two former Kremlin leaders, saying Leonid Brezhnev be­came a "monument to him­self" and Nikita Khrushchev betrayed the hopes of a gener­ation. 
The article by former Brezhnev protege Alexander Bovin appears in the latest issue of the state-run New Times weekly, which goes on sale Friday. A summary was carried Thursday by the Tass news agency. 
The article contains the har­shest personal criticism ever to appear in the Soviet Union of Brehznev, who headed the na­tion's Communist Party from 1964 until his death in 1982. 
Brezhnev's tenure is now routinely linked to stagnation and corruption, but most criticisms don't mention the late Kremlin leader by name. In his speech to the Communist Party Central Committee on Tuesday, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev was critical of the Brezhnev and Khrushchev years but did not mention their names. 
Bovin's article accused "con­servatives" of blocking change and was clearly linked to the campaign waged by Gorbac­hev against the party's old guard. 
Although Bovin's article was unusual in criticizing the per­sonalities of the two late party chiefs, it is typical in Soviet his­tory for a Kremlin leadership to denounce its predecessors. Khrushchev attacked Stalin in 1956, three years after Stalin's death, and Brezhnev denounced Khrushchev after he was ousted in 1964. 
Bovin's article follows this week's meeting of the party Central Committee, at which two Brezhnev-era stalwarts, Dinmukhamed Kunaev, 74, and Mikhail Zimyanin, 72, were ousted from the party's top or­gans. 
Since coming to power in March 1985, Gorbachev has criticized stagnation of the eco­nomy under Brezhnev, the grandiose projects and sudden shifts in policy linked to Khrushchev. 
Bovin, who writes for the government newspaper Izves­tia, is one of this country's best known political analysts. His article was certain to be care­fully read by Soviets wanting to know how current Kremlin leaders reinterpret the past. 
Bovin said a group of "Soviet socialist conservatives"' stand in the way of the changes en­dorsed by Gorbachev. "Al­ready twice in my lifetime they rolled us back, twice blocked the way of long overdue and es­sential change," he wrote. 
He said the party's 20th congress in 1956, at which Khrushchev shocked many Soviets by denouncing Stalin, was "a cleansing storm which gave us a hope of the future." 
Brezhnev, whom Bovin served as Central Committee adviser until the two men had a falling-out in the 1970s, was "a man who undoubtedly had innate common sense, (but who) allowed himself to be turned into a monument to him­self." 
asked if he believed Marcos Laurel said Marcos planned to was blocked by the Philippine was behind the coup attempt. board a chartered Boeing 707 consul general in Honolulu,
Rebels 
at Honolulu Airport Thursday Tomas Gomez III. Benignocontinuedfrom page 1 "Probably so, because you to return to the country he was said the government received rebellion before the civil cannot have three simulta­forced to flee 11 months ago reports that Marcos and his courts. neous attacks in three different after the combined civilian and wife Imelda ''were preparing 
Trade Minister Jose Concep­places without any master military uprising. to fly back to the Philippines in cion, interviewed from Manila plan," he said. Government spokesman a special plane." on NBC's "Today" show, was Vice President Salvador Teodoro Benigno said the plan In Honolulu, an angry 

VOCATION RETREAT 
[plUJ~[p(Q)~~ to help you consider the brotherhood 
and priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)ffi\lJ~~ Friday, February 13 to Saturday, February 14 
7:00 p.m. 12:00 noon 
[p[Lffi\~~Moreau Seminary 
~~~~~U~ffi\U~(Q)~by calling the Vocation Office-no cost 239-6385 
Marcos told reporters he felt like a prisoner because two State Department officials, Carl Taylor and Elwood Mac­Guire, visited him at his home and told him not to leave Hawaii. 
He said he wanted to return to the Philippines as soon as possible because "my country is in a crisis." 
In Washington, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said that when Marcos arrived in the United States 11 months ago, "it was with the under­standing that he could come and go as he pleased with one exception, and that was that if he wished to return to the Philippines, he could do so only by prior agreement with the Philippine government." 
He said that as a result of • reports from Manila officials that Marcos was planning to return, two State Department officers in Honolulu paid the former president a visit "to review our agreements with him." 
In an earlier television ad­dress, Aquino charged that the rebellion was part of desperate efforts by "the enemies of democracy" to block Monday's plebiscite on a new constitu­tion. 
The plebiscite is widely re­garded as a vote of confidence in Aquino's administration. 
~~------------~~---------------------------------.-----------------------­


"ieVV~_O_i_n_t____~-------'-Fr-iday,-Janu-ary3-0,198-7-pa-ge6 
Minorities must find their identity on campus 
My first recollection of racism oc­curred when I was just seven years old. I was playing with a group of white children from my neighborhood when a little boy not much older than I rode by on his bicycle and questioned, "What are you doing playing with that nig­ger?" I had never heard the word ut­tered before and had no idea of its meaning yet it burned hotter than any fire. It left me astonished and confused­a memory that I will never forget. 
Lisa Boykin 

in thru the out door 
.............................. 
I certainly believe that racism exists­to deny it would be naive and to simply sit back and accept it would be foolish. However, in this day and age, racism no longer rears its ugly head so that it may be clearly distinguished. Rather, the "new" racism is subtly cloaked in a different garment and is often times a result of sheer ignorance. This is par­ticularly true of Notre Dame. How long shall this campus dwell in the shadow of ignorance? Since ignorance and in­difference seem to be Notre Dame's greatest villains, let us hope that this Minority Awareness Week has raised the consciousness of the student body to a few harsh realities. We must bridge the gap that exists between minority and white students with understanding. 
Notre Dame is presently confronted with a mounting dilemma which cannot be resolved without further commit ­ment and action from the University. Although the Admissions Office has made some notable strides in the past two years, the minority enrollment of Notre Dame is still not comparable to that of other leading universities. 
(There are exactly 26 Native American Indians at ND, Hispanics comprise less than 3% of the student body, and Blacks comprise less than 2%) Most impor­tantly, though, is the lack of minority faculty here at Notre Dame. 
In 1957, the University hired its first Black faculty member-Dr. Adam Ar­nold. Thirty years later, there are now three Black faculty members. I ask you, has progress been made? Although the administration claims to be con­cerned with this dilemma, it is has done very little to actively recruit minority faculty members. "That responsibility rests with college deans, department heads, and Committees on Appoint­ment and Promotion. The most effec­tive technique would unfold via admin­istrative mandate, with clearly defined deadlines," commented Dr. Arnold. Furthermore, the administration asserts that qualified minority appli­cants are difficult to find, yet this seems to be inconsistent with the fact that less prestigious schools with comparable standards are able to locate and employ qualified minority faculty. Dr. Arnold noted also that, "The PhD has not been the sole criteria for selecting people to fill key posts of responsibility within the various colleges at Notre Dame.": Several administrators and professors do not hold PhD degrees so this guideline is not an effective explanation for the University's inability to employ more minority faculty. Furthermore, it is apparent that salary is not a deter­mining factor either since Notre Dame is in the position to offer relatively lucrative positions in comparison to other universities. The plight of the minority-both faculty and student-is an embarassing reflection upon Notre Dame. This crisis desperately needs to 
be resolved. Now that we know what needs to be done, as if it has not been clear all along, let us work vigilantly to address these problems. 
However, there is still much work to be done right here and now by the stu­dents to improve minority relations not only between non-minority students but within the distinctive minority com­munities themselves. White students need to be more receptive to the con­cerns of minority students. It is a frustrating feeling to think that I am surrounded by some 7,000 White people who claim to regard me as one of the infamous Notre Dame family members yet do not support minority related events, do not associate with minority students, and barely make any attempt to enlighten themselves on significant issues which concern the minority com­munity. This holds true for both faculty and students. The isolationism that I see here is very chilling. 
Again, understanding is the primary step towards bridging the gap that exists between white and minority stu­dents. 
To the minority communities I say, unify yourselves! (Do not confuse this with excluding yourselves!) It is im­perative that a minority student is com­fortable with his own identity and ded­icated to his own community before he can hope to successfully interact with others and teach them that cultural di­versity is acceptable and essential to the well-being of society. It is dishear­tening to see minority students here at Notre Dame who have absolutely no sense of identity because they reason that association means assimilation and, therefore, this is the way that they will become accepted. Never relinqish your identity! How can you know where you are going if you don't know where you've been? . 
Finally, let us hope that the admin­istration, the faculty, the staff, and each student at Notre Dame will make a personal commitment to establish and improve relations between the minority and non-minority communit­ies so that we can all proudly and truth­fully proclaim to belong to the Notre Dame Family. Ignorance is NOT bliss! 
Lisa M. Boykin is a junior Govern­ment/Philosophy major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


P.O.Box Q
I 


Garry Trudeau 
COULIJ YOU YOU POOR CAUMY 013AR...
IN THERe, Jl3FF... 
MOMMY, '\
Jeff?... JEFf'? 
PLeASE~
\, -;',J,., 
l 

• 
J(J5T FINISH/t./6 UP . H&Re... I 
F ootballlegacy will return when dog does 
Dear Editor: 
There is a sad postscript to your Ac­cent article entitled "Mascot to return?" The decision by Father Joyce and Faculty Board in Control of Ath­letics not to reinstate the Irish Terrier mascot means the hex stays. 
In the October 9, 1986 edition of the South Bend Tribune, Bill Gleason wrote about a curse being put on Notre Dame football. He pointed out that in 1945 when the Chicago Cubs refused to allow Billy Sianis and his goat to attend the 1945 World Series, a hex was put on the Cubs. "The Cubs will never be in a World Series again!" 1945 was the last time the Cubs went to the World Series. 
I quote from the October article. "Notre Dame won't win another na­tional football championship until Clashmore Mike is strutting in front of the bench again." Laugh if you will, but when the current student body is old 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
and gray they will realize there was not a football championship in their lifetime. Last season, one of Notre Dame's "sure wins" was supposed to be over Pittsburgh. On the Thursday before the Pittsburgh game it was predicted in the South Bend Tribune that Notre Dame would lose -just to prove the power of the hex. The final score was Pittsburgh 10 Notre Dame 9. 
The Cubs have their Billy Goat curse and now the Irish have their Irish Ter­rier curse-no more football champion­ships. Sorry about that Lou Holtz. Per­haps it would be wise of Coach Holtz to call on the skill of a little red furry as­sistant blessed with the soul of a leprec­haun. Maybe the pot of gold will be a golden trophy with the words ''National Football Championship -University of Notre Dame" inscribed on it. 
I intend to continue to work for the reinstatement of an Irish Terrier mas­cot. Then we can all sit back and enjoy another national championship in foot­ball. Go Irish! 
Marge Andre 
Campus quote 
"People don't think you're that good; the country doesn't think you're that good. Now let's show the nation just what we have. They'll believe nobody ever comes to Notre Dame number one and leaves that way." 
Richard "Digger, Phelps 1981 "Digger Phelps and Notre Dame Basket­
ball, 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November3, 1988 



models for them. Digging deep in the bag of familiar Notre Dame-Saint Mary's stereotypes, it's easy to guess what kind of new models he meant: strap­ping, subservient, huge­breasted Saint Mary's students. The skit drew a few scattered hisses, but any displeasure the audience might have felt had to be pretty evenly counter­balanced by how funny the men looked dressed as "SMC chicks." 
And of course, there were several serious instrumental numbers in the show to slow the pace down a little and add variety to the lineup. Dan Ripper pro­vided the first such interlude, If Interlude isn't too classy a word for his act. Playing a revolution­ary instrument called the nose flute, Ripper interspersed con­versation about his life in a small Southern town with rather nasal but nonetheless entertaining renditions of well known tunes. 
The other musical acts were mostly originals and quite good. Rick Hodder sang and played his piano composition "Returnln." Marty Mullen played acoustic guitar and sang his song "Mr. Wiseman." Pianist Mike Seasly performed "Counting the Blues," and Keith Tadrowski presented the audience with a version of his synth-song "Ghost Town." 
Probably the Revue's most out­standing performer was Kevin Keirn in the role of James Goldricker, agent 007. The audi­ence rewarded his skit, "Goldricker," with a mountain of applause at its conclusion --ap­plause well deserved. Keirn's 
MARY JACOBY features editor 
T 
he targets were, for the most part, predictable ; yet so was the laughter as the 1987 Keenan Revue opened to a full audience at O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
Fat Notre Dame chicks, loose and easy Saint Mary's women and the familiar constraints of 
life under the dome were the main objects of ridicule. But there was a new butt of many jokes: Lee's Bar and Grill. 
The skit titled "The Danger Seekers" was one of the crowd's favorites, combining a spoof on the male Domer as a social retard with the recent raids on Lee's Ribs, which have netted more than 200 citations for the South Bend police in the past two weeks. 
Lee's notoriously lenient car­ding procedure yielded a lot of laughs as one nervous freshman Domer, who couldn't remember the name on his ID, was told to "go to the back of the line" and memorize his ID "real good" so he'd be allowed to enter on the next try. 
The show moved quickly and smoothly for the most part, yet one skit --"SMCers Rent To Own" --caused a palpable silence in th' audience when the content of the skit became apparent. In used­car salesmanlike style, a fast­talking salesman asked Notre Dame men if they weren't tired of baggy sweatpants and handles of fat on their women; and if so, then he had some new 

The Observer -January 30, 1987 
portrayal of a neurotic, paranoid and power-hungry Goldrick. out to advance his reputation with the administration by busting every student party he can find, was hilarious. 
see BEHIND, page 1 
The Observer/Paul Oeschger 
Top: Kevin Keirn portrays the maniacal Goldrick In "Golttrlcker." Above: The Farley Fungi gobbl.e their dally sustenance greedily In 'Wild Kingdom.' 


..

The Observer -January 30, 1987 Scene-Page 2 
[ 1 
A sound to suit 
everyone's taste 
TIM ADAMS 
features writer Into Chicago on a
Go 
weekend and walk up to the flrst person you see who appears to be reasonably knowledgeable about music, and ask them who's the best up-and-coming band In Chicago. More than likely, he or she will reply, "Precious Wax Drippings." Then ap­proach a "true" punk rocker ­a GBH-shlrted, flst-ln-the-alr, 
jock-brained skinhead, say ­and ask them the same thing. Well, Ifthey weren't too stupid or stubborn to admit It, they'd give the same answer. Which leads to one conclusion: Pre­cious Wax Drippings are doing something right. 
They're punk, but not In the stereotyped way . None of them wear an earring or sport a new wave doo, and as far as I know, they don't often travel the 90 miles It takes to get here so that they can hang out In LaFortune. But, with one of the band members (drummer Johnny Machine) still awaiting his 21st birthday, these four young musicians obviously have opted for the road less travelled -a life of rock 'n' roll, toughing It out, being cool. 
Sharing a house on the West side of Chicago, Precious Wax (consisting of bassist Bill Little, his brother Joe on guitar, guitarist Jim Garb I and Johnny Machine on drums) have made Inroads Into the Chicago scene faster than most bands as a result of al­most constant rehearsing and their undying enthusiasm, and they are now the premier opening act In town. Since their debut In September of 1985, they've garnered opening slots for big-name "college" acts like Guadal­canal Diary, the Replace­ments, Naked Raygun, Soul Asylum, Let's Active and 
In concert, which is the only way to experience them until the release of their upcoming flrst record, the band takes on many shapes. Some nights they deliver their power-chord set, reminiscent of both the early Who and Replacements, oddly enough. Some nights they stick with their poppier stuff, which is no less lethal, 
just a little sweeter. And other times they whip out the wah­wah pedal and explode into space, combining psychedelic sounds (a Ia Grateful Dead and Nell Young) with punk­tinged softer stuff. It's rare that they stick with any one of the above categories, so It's almost like seeing three bands in one. Good drugs will do that to you, but this Is cheaper. 
Saturday night's concert at Stepan Center (featuring headliners Marginal Man) will be Precious Wax Drippings' flrst stop in the northern In­diana area, although they have done shows in Pit­tsburgh, Philadelphia, North Carolina, and three concerts each in Minneapolis and Madison. 
Also slated to open the show are two bands, Youth In Asia and Damaged Retina. Youth In Asia, a campus band formed last semester, Is a little less known than groups like the Law and In My Shrub­bery, but their selection of cover songs is the choicest on campus. They mix in the Talking Heads, Creedence and the Clash with their own selections and more obscure songs by Squirrel Bait, Naked Raygun and the Feelies, re­sulting in a potpourri of tunes that doesn't insult your intel­ligence. Damaged Retina, a South Bend high school trio, plays with an attack much like the Ramones, but a little faster. Their set consists of 

The Man: An above par band 
BILL MURRAY 
features writer 
I 
n the genre of punk-inspired rock 'n' roll bands, there's been a lot more imitation and stagnation than originality and progression. Whether we're talking about the original British punk bands such as the Sex Pis­tols, the Clash and the Jam or the flrst wave of American hardcore groups like Black Flag. the Dead Kennedys and Minor Threat. there have been a small number of groundbreaklng groups that have emerged, only to be followed by seemingly hundreds of generic clones. This phenomenon is the main reason why punk rock may have gone through rigor mortis long before most of you ever saw a college application. 
With this state of punk mirror­ing the pathetic state of rock 'n' roll, it's a relief to see that a pre­cious number of bands are writing new material and forging new directions with their music. Marginal Man is one of these groups. 
Marginal Man formed In I 982. This Washington, D.C.-area quintet has released two LPs and has survived two extensive U.S. tours, and now, with a third al­bum in the can (due out some­time on the well-known Relativity Records label, home of under­ground god Robyn Hitchcock), it's fair to say they've displayed something almost foreign to their hardcore contemporaries-­progress. 
The 1987 version of Marginal Man, coming to the Notre Dame campus Saturday, Is a more vocally-oriented group, featuring intense harmonies between lead singer Steve Polcari and guitarist Pete Murray. That doesn't mean the band is neglecting its musical duties, however. Murray and Kenny Inouye's guitar playing have become strong tools in the band's developing arsenal of songs. The songs themselves have evolved from short tunes punctuated by sudden bursts in tempo and volume to longer, steadier compositions. 
Throughout their career, the Man have k'ept the energy level extremely high. The band's live shows are where it all comes to­gether -the great melodies, the crack drumming by Mike Manos, bassist Andre Lee's frequent scissor-kicking. and of course the band's wall of guitar, always there to remind you that It's rock 
'n' roll and nothing but. Almost lost in the fun of Marginal Man's shows are the band's lyrics, which are almost universally in­trospective and thoughtful. From the beginning. the Man differen­tiated themselves from most "underground" bands by singing concerned with punk-taboos like friendship and Individualism; In­stead of things like bashing somebody's head Into the ground with a skateboard. To­gether, the band's commitment to putting on a memorable show and penning involving lyrics has earned Marginal Man a very devoted following in the D.C.­area as well as various cities throughout the country. 
Once the band's new record is released, the members of Mar­ginal Man may venture out for a third national tour. Saturday night's show at Stepan Center is the band's flrst date in the Mid­west in 18 months, and the band's only concert In the near future outside of Washington. The band is pumped up for the show, since a November show at Notre Dame fell through at the last minute, and the band Is ready to "rock out." 
Showtime Is 8 p.m. and tickets are $5 at the door. 

Christmas. Add that to the In­numerable house parties and smaller club dates they've done and you've got yourself a pretty well-lubed band. They're hot. 
mostly originals, plus covers of "At the Hop" by Danny and the Juniors and the Ramones' classic "Blitzkrieg Bop." Ali in all, Saturday's concert looks to be one well-rounded show. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film Series This week at the Snite: Play It Again, Sam (1972) 
Color, 85 minutes, directed by Herbert Ross, USA Friday, January 30, 7:30 and 9:30p.m., Snite After his wife leaves him for "insufficient laughter," Woody Allen explores the singles scene with romantic advice from his alter ego, Humphrey Bogart, who leads him to a reprise of Casablanca in this self-reflexive homage to Hollywood romance. Woody Allen at his best. 
Meet Me in St. Louis (1944) 
Color, 113 minutes, directed by Vincente Minnelli, USA Monday, February 2, 7 p.m., Snite Judy Garland falls in love with the boy next door in this lushly colored musical about life in St. Louis During the 1903 World's Fair. Garland lilts a strong score (title song, "Trolley Song," "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas") in a lovely Victorian mise-en-scene. Margaret O'Brien is especially appealing as little sister Tootsie. 
The Front (1976) 
Color, 94 minutes, directed by Martin Ritt, USA Monday, February 2, 9 p.m., Snite Nebbish Woody Allen agrees to become a front for some blacklisted Hollywood writers during the McCarthy blacklist era. High comedy evolves from Allen's lack of wit in comparison to the men writing his lines. Interpolating actual documentary footage within the film adds substantially to its authenticity. 
Woodstock (1970) 
Color, 184 mmutes, directed by Michael Wadleigh, USA Tuesday, February 3, 7:30p.m., Snite The Oscar-winning documentary of the legendary festival that was the triumph of the Age of Aquarius. Incredible performances by rock greats are captured on film, along with the sur­rounding celebration of 400,000 young people who gathered in the name of peace and love. Be 
there or be square. I di "d I d . . $l SO
n VI Ua a miSSIOn: . . Season tickets are also available. 




.....--------­
The Observer -January 30, 1987 Scene-Page 3 



No more whiplash for skinheads 
KRIS MURPHY features writer 
J..IUsker Du wastes no time I lin giving you something to think about on their new double album Ware­house:Songs and Stories. 
Bob Mould's distinctive fast and fuzz-soaked guitarjumps out of the silence in "These Important Years." The rhythm section of Grant Hart's drums and Greg Norton's bass then kicks In and soon Mould is singing "Expectations only mean you really think you know what's coming next anJ 
I.AIBEIT DISI'I.AY OF 

CIDSUTITt:ll SA•I'Us EWE 8 ME 
2532 MI..._.Av..,louth Bend (3 blocks Eat or Ironwood) 

you don't." 
Mould's band has gone from playing whiplash thrash for skinheads in Minneapolis beer bars to national expo­sure and incredible critical ac­claim in six years and eight albums, two of them double efforts. 
Along the way they experi­mented with hardcore, heavy metal, folk, and power pop. They also resisted major labels until they were assured of complete creative control. Last year found 
see MOULD, page 7 

COli for directions 288-2385 

Harrison Ford portrays Allie Fox as a man who ventures toward paradise -away from culture. 
A jewel in the jungle 
PAUL PILGER 
features writer 
11fhat do you like In a fllm? VV Are you a fllm artisan looking for complexity and sym-
Movie review 
,,,
C
¥-¥-¥-oast 
1.1 
(out of four) I
.. 
bolism In every shot? Or are you an adventurer who likes more emphasis placed on sense­appeal and less emphasis on those unexplored comers of the mind? 
Me, I lean approxlmatly 60140 toward the artisan side. 0.K. I know, you are probably saying. "Well good for you buddy, but what's the point?" Well, the point Is, where you stand on this Issue will deterrnlne whether or not you can sit through ''The Mosquito Coast" for Its' entirety; and the extremist will have a dif­ficult time doing just that. 
"The Mosquito Coast." a Jerome Hellman Production from Warner Bros. (based on the Paul Theroux's book of the same 
ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Specia 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount Call 234-6647 by Pinkerton Security Agency 

name), Is an extremely sound fiJ_m and, without question, the film represents state of the art fllm making. However, Its' gradual and substantial mood change, which peaks about mid­way through, Is what. for the au­dience, really makes or breaks this film. And, although the fllm carries the same escapist/back to 
nature  theme  throughout.  the  
change  in  mood  divides  the  
movie into two parts.  

In the beginning. we see Allie Fox. the "I hate America because !love it" absent minded etc. pro­fessor, played brllilantly by Hat;­rlson Ford, pick up his family and seek his '1ungle utopia" dream far away from civilization. Things go quite well for the determined Allie Fox and his family. 
After buying and rebuilding a town, during which Allie gains the respect of his few but devoted citizens, the genius Fox brings ice and air conditioning to the jungle for the first time with his invention, Fat Boy. Paradise seems found until Fat Boy is destroyed hi a fabulous crash and bum scene of flrery explosions. 
The conflict in this fllm seems to totter back and forth between Allie and the "real world," and Allie and himself. Allie Is a man fighting a loslnij battle. Every stride he makes ·In . creating paradise is a step back toward civilization. Western culture Is manifest In Allie (evident in the fact that he can't do a thing with­out his glasses). 
The first half of the fllm makes 
Allie Fox a kind of hero through 
his successful denial and escape 
of American culture. He defies 
most hardship, of which we see 
very little, and Is quite confident 
about the whole matter. The 
fllm's first half Is very Crocidile 
DunDee-Ish. And, because Allie 
Is made a hero at the start, we 
tend-to Ignore questions left un­
answered and problems left un­
seen (or unheard oO and just 
revel in the success ofthis 1980's 
Swiss Family Robinson. 
We don't ask: Where does he 
get his tool? Where do they get 
their food? Why are the natives 
(not of thejungle persuasion) so 
helpful? And, put plainly, how 
can life In the jungle be so damn 
hunkle-doorle? We leave all tnat 
behind because we don't want to 
ruin this lliuslon of paradise; one 
we wouldn't mind having our­
selves. 
The second half of the fllm, 
whether It Is fortunate or not Is 
dlficult to say, brings us and 
Allie back down to earth; crash­
Ing down_ as very clearly al­
legorized through Fat Boy's 
destruction. From this point on, 
the story becomes more and 
more complex. It is here that 
one's love for the art of fllmmak­
ing comes largely into play, be­
cause the film seems to have no 
end! 
I believe director Peter Weir 
("Witness," "The Year of Living 
Dangerously'') could have ended 
this film three different times and 
not lost anything. It becomes a 
patience tester; but is worth . seeing through to the end. 
A few technical and performing 
notes: Weir and Director of Pho­
tography John Seale A.C.S. com­
bine thier talents to give us some 
fabulous night shots and narra­
tive angles; the shots of Fat Boy, 
the Storm scene, and Allie 
posfng as if his hammer were 
a six shooter being particularly 
outstanding. 
As for the actors, convincing 
roles were handed in by River 
Phoenix and Helen Mirren who 
play Fox's son and wife, respec­
tively. 
Director f'eter Weir likens "The 
Mosquito Coast" to an opera. "In 
opera many times you start out 
with everything wonderful, the 
songs bright and positive, and 
then you end with tragedy." 
That's a pretty good summation 
of this interesting. entertaining. 
and at times, difficult fllm. 


The Observer ---January 30, 1987 

On stage~tr\~ /"?-~ 
Behind the scene 
Goldrlcker, with a "licence to 
expel," exemplified what stu­
dents perceive as hypocrisy in 
Notre Dame's policies by giving 
a straight-A. straight-laced stu­
dent the boot for attending one 
party and drinking one beer. 
What about the Christian prin­
ciples of forgiveness and com­
passion? You're more likely to 
get a urine test than compassion 
according to this portrayal of the 
Office of Student Affairs. 
"Eyewltless News," with Dave McMonagle and Paul Schloemer as co-anchors, was another notable skit. Keenanltes managed to l'lJect a tired format with livelyjokes, spoofing every­thing from peace protests to AIDS. One of the skit's most in­novative Ideas was an Iran­Contra scandal-type news seg­ment, substituting Wednesday fast money ("Just where does that dollar actually go?") for the millions In the arms deal and making the World Hunger Coal­Ition a shady operation as a front for the scam. Unfortunately, the skit was marred by technical problems which hopefully will be corrected in performances for the rest of the weekend. 
As for an overall assessment 
of the show, there were no real 
clunkers in the lineup, although 
some skits were more entertain­
ing than others. The makeshift 
polka band which closed the first 
act with the skit ''It's Hlp to Polka" 
provided a different change of 
pace: the audience got to stand 
up and dance. But other skits 
such as "Simon Says" (the name 
explains Itself) and "Middle Age 
Dating" (middle age referring to 
several centuries ago, not the 
period most of our parents are 
passing through now) were kind 
of dumb. 
"Run SMC," a takeoff on the popular Run DMC remake of Aerosmlth's "Walk This Way," was a good Idea, but the words of "rappers" Rod West and Myc­hal Schulz were hard to under­stand. Most of the probably funny lines were lost on the au­dience. 
In general, the themes of this year's Revue were the same as in the past and sexual innuendos abounded, especially in the out­standing "Dome Connection" skit, a spoof on the dating show "Love Connection." Steve Beuer­leln received a lot of abuse for his passing skills --or lack thereof--In both "Dome Connec­tion" and In other various jabs. 
As the show's producer, Eddie 
Leonard, and the director, Myc­
hal Shultz, explained In the 
opening remarks, many Keenan 
Hall residents have been working 
since September to get the Revue 
on stage. Over 100 skits tried 
out; 34 made it. For the I 1 th 
time, Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students were treated to 
a slice of sarcasm and satire at 
O'Laughlln Auditorium Thursday 
night. 
Clockwise from top: The bad Twinkle gets dressed; "Run SMC;" Mike Seasly at the plano; the co-producers watch a prac­tice; making last-minute changes. 
Photography by Paul Oeschger 
• 


~~r~ 
--~-------~---­
~-----~----------------. 
Scene-Page 4-5 


at Keenan Revue '87 



The Observer -January 30, 1987 Scene-Page 6 
4 star film is a 
5 star general 
DON SEYMOUR reatures writer 

N
o other m~or VIetNam film 
has tried to enter the psyche ofa grunt. "Apocalypse Now"was mythical; "The Deerhunter" dealt with friends; and "Coming Home" was exactly that. 
Platoon 

··~~ffour) 

"Platoon" Is the soldier's movie. Yes, It Is graphically violent and brutally real. But this fllm is the closest some ofus will ever come to understanding what our brothers and friends went through in the forests of VIet Nam. 
Much has already been written about Oliver Stone's fllm "Platoon." Many call It the first fllm to show what It was really like In Viet Nam. Indeed, this Is the flrst fllm to capture the hor­ror, from an individual grunt's perspective, of the war America lost. 
"Platoon" depicts this horror for the beneflt of those who were lucky enough to miss the war, so that the war Itself and the tor­ments that many vets have gone through back on the homefront can be understood. For those vets, this fllm Is an exorcism, an exorcism of the demons which they could not possibly com­municate to the rest of us. "Platoon" is undoubtedly one of the best American films of the year. 
Oliver ~tone, winner of an Academy Award for his screenplay "Midnight Express," director of last year's "Salvador," and, most importantly, a vet of Nam himself, wrote the screenplay for "Platoon" 10 years ago. But the script was r~ected everywhere at the time, because It was too graphic and too real­Istic. 
Stone gets three powerful per­formances from Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, and William Dafoe. Sheen Is known for his looks and his name more than for his acting ability, but his lack of expression works In his favor here as he plays Chris Taylor, a 19-year-old who volunteered for service and Is thoroughly dazed by his experiences. 
Tom Berenger plays a war­hardened fanatic named Ser­
*...'*'*'*****'*'*'*+)o
River Park Theatre -f+ 2929 Mishawaka Ave. of+
* *
288-8488

oft Now Featuring: +Jo 
-lt "a French comedy" of+ 
oft 3 Men and a Cradle i+
-
1!: Coming Feb. 6: !t "t'1" Sid and Nancv ..,.
t 

a// seats $3.00 : 
*''*'**''*'$'*'*'*'*~ 
-· 
geant Barnes who terrorizes the platoon with his brutal ideas of warfare. Berenger's performance Is Intense, and the scar that stretches across his face makes him all the more frightening. His character comes Into conflict with the tough but human Ser­geant Elias, played by William Dafoe. The two are a source of friction that divide the platoon Into two camps. 
Berenger's followers are boot­lickers motivated by fear or fanatics like himself. Dafoe, on the other hand attracts the sol­diers we meet Intimately, includ­Ing young Chris Taylor. A spar­kling moment of his struggle to retain his humanity occurs when Chris is introduced to the mari­
juana den where Elias' squad 
'Platoon' Is both arresting and alarming while It provides an understanding of VIet rtam. 
spends their off hours. The men, stoned and laughing. dance arm In arm to "The Tracks of My Tears" by Smokey Robinson. 
The center ofthe fllm Is Sheen, whose voice-over narration reveals to us his thoughts at cru­cial moments of the fllm. In truth, this Is the voice of Oliver Stone, telling us the emotions he felt while In Nam. This fllm Is un­abashedly autobiographical. Very little happens In the war during the moments of this fllm. 
We lost. Stone recognizes this. The efforts over there were futile. The movement In this film Is within Chris, as he watches Elias and Barnes and the others In the platoon. This Is the key to the -·~ .......~ fllm's success. "Platoon" should 
'Platoon' depicts the physical and emotional scars of the VIet rtam War. 
not be missed 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD University of Notre Dame 
presents 
SPRINC BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiRht on the beach * RiRht in the middle oF the St,.ip 
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES:
J. 189
Driving Packape • Seven nights accommodations at the totally new R1viera
Without Transportation ... -r Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of Ihe stnp at 505 
Quad Occupancy .,. North Atlantic (AlA). This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels mthe middle of the strip The Riviera has agreat cafe restaurant. one of 
Full Packape the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a night·
J.2 79
With TransportatiOn... -r club Available are hotel rooms for four people and SUites Quad Occupancy .,. that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have a1r condition­ing, color TV. and great new furnishings 
March 13-22. 1987 • Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leavmg Fr1day. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 
• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway


Or For More Info • The services of full time travel representatives available 
To Sign Up 
daily to throw parties and take good care of youCall 239-7757 • All taxes and gratuities NOTRE 
Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 


The Observer-January 30,1987 Scene-Page 7 
• 
MOULD 
continued {rom page 3 
them disavowing the constrict­ing American punk scene that

TheScoop ­
spawned them and moving on to broader horizons. On Warehouse Husker Du con­
Town and Country Theatre 
2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka 259-9090


Movies Art
University Park Cinema I, II and 
e;l
Ill .366 University Park Mall 277-0441 

' 
The Student Activities Board The Saint Mary's campus presents "The Gods Must Be galleries this weekend continue Crazy" tonight and tomorrow to host two art exhibits. "Ruth night In the Engineering Sinclair's Personal Papers" will Auditorium. This Australian film, be displayed at the Moreau which depicts a bushman's Gallery and "Robert Berkshire's
/Music

comic attempt to return a Coke Paintings and Drawings" go on bottle to the gods, will be shown exhibit at the Little Theatre and
IR

at 7, 9: 15 and 11 :.30 p.m. Admis­Hammes Galleries. Gallery hours sion Is $1.50. Tomorrow nightat Theodore's are 9:.30 to noon, 1 to .3 p.m. the Freshman Advisory Council Monday though Friday and Sun­
"Play It Again, Sam" will be will sponsor an Alumni Look­day 1 to .3 p.m. Both exhibits will showing tonight at the Annen­Alike Dance. Over $200 in door be on display through Feb. 20. berg Auditorium. Woody Allen prizes will be given away, includ­stars in this hilarious spoof of ing two stadium blankets to the romance, Humphrey Bogart best dressed "alumni." The prize style. Shows start at 7:.30 and drawings begin at 9 p.m. and last 9:.30 p.m. Admission is $1.50. until the big $20 Notre Dame 
chair giveaways at midnight. Ad­

A guide to movie theaters in mission is free. the South Bend-Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
Tonight Gregg Allman and 


52709 U.S . .31 N. Dickey Betts are back together 277-1522 again for the "Allman Brother's 100 Center Cinema I and II Reunion". The concert will be
/Mass

100 Center, Mishawaka held at the Holiday Star Theatre 259-9414 in Merrillville, IN. The show starts 
River Park Theatre at 8 p.m. and tickets are $14.95. 2929 Mishawaka Ave. Masses for this weekend at Sa­For tickets call Ticketron at 288-8488 cred Heart Church are: 219'769-6600. 
Scottsdale Theatre Saturday night at 5 p.m. 
115.3 Scottsdale Mall Sunday at 9 and 10:.30 a.m. and 291-458.3 12:15 p.m. 
tinues their "change as a way of life" tactics. Whereas their last .double LP, 1984's Zen Arcade, 
was a barren landscape ofindeci­
sion, frustration, and death, 
Warehouse offers some light at 
the end of the tunnel. 
This is not to say that the out­
look is a happy, or even an op­
timistic one, only that some 
resolutions crop up. The band's 
sound is still refined hardcore 
with Mould's guitar cutting 
through every song like a den­
tist's drill and a rhythm section 
with enough momentum to 
make nodding your head to the 
music a painful exercise. This au­
ral landscape does little to 
lighten the mood. 
Mould and Hart write the 
band's. material and alternate 
songs throughout the album. 
Mould is the better writer. Four 
of his compositions; the 
aforementioned "These Impor­
tant Years", "Bed of Nalls", "It's 
Not Peculiar'', and "Up in the Air'' 
are the best songs on the album. 
Mould has always had a gift for 
articulating his mental state but 
In the past he could do little but 
face his problems and despair. 
This reached a peak in last year's 
"Too Far Down" in which he con­
templated suicide as the only 
way to escape depression. On 
Warehouse he makes an attempt 
to struggle out from his prob­
lems and learn something along 
the way. 
In "These Important Years" he 


~~<Q><Q>oQ><Q><Q>~~~~ 
complains that "nothing 

~ Jrw{]Ot](P5tl(f£9{rr.5' WET-~9{_f}) § 
changes fast enough" but 
resolv~s in the end to "stop and 

~ '1JI'J{'J{'E!l{.M{'lJ 'T51.'13L'£ ~ smell the roses now, they might 
§ t](T.(jiSPJ(JltTIOJ{S § § Monday, !{e6ruary 2"" and ~ ~ rruesaay, !{e6ruary 3ra 
§ ~ 7-10P.9vf. § g..,[f}) ~om, 2"" '}'foor La!{ortune § You ao not fiave to sit with. tlie same peopu 
I 
for 6rundi ani ainner. Yfssignments wi({ 6e aone rarnfom(:g 6y a computer. 
. (jroups of9 Pri_efi"'<e:;o-...11iq,u£."-(l.~N~~~ 
.q~~<Q 


The Book Department's Pre-Inventory Sale 
20o/o discount on all 20o/o discount on all Trade Hardbounds Children's Books 
additional 20o/o discount on all Sale Books 
Ends February 14 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

end up on you." Again, in "Up in the Air," he sings 
Poor bird flies up in the air never getting anywhere and how much misery can one soul take? Trying to fly away might have been your first mis­take. 
Mould is our generation's 
Pete Townshend; an intelli­
gent and troubled man with a 
passion for his craft and a 
great ability to articulate his 
emotions. He also shares 
Townshend's conviction that 
"the kids are alright" despite 
the ever-increasing pressure 
that they face. 
Hart is a weaker lyricist but 
a more imaginative musician. 
He incorporates everything 
from thrash to rockabilly in his 
songs and his half-shoutthalf­
croon vocal style is great. He 
also gets the last word on 
Warehouse with "You Can Live 
at Home." He concludes 
"Figured it out that I'd been 
wasting my time'And time was 
eating my soul...I can be 
free." Words to live by. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND 

·---l 

The Observer -January 30, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
• 

Ballerina dreams recall love lost 
J..le woke early because of the told old jokes, and laughed at her. In the dream sequence, she ther --clapped and cheered for for an analyst to see, hints for a lllntenslty of his dream. pretty girls with flirting In their had asked him to come to a party their prima ballerina. story. Re-reading them, he kept Memory, desire, regret and sad­eyes --gilded butterflies out for celebrating her 60th birthday, Then he awoke, and he wanted ripping the sheet until he had ness had stirred him as he slept; fun. where she wa,rted him to recite to cry. It was Instantly clear to reduced It to confetti. "Old men but to say he was nostalgic, he Prom queens and superstars the poems he'had written for her him that she had never danced, shall dream dreams, young men felt. would make his mood sound came and left like the ebb and on a birthday when she was and her marriage had been child­shall see visions." Perhaps the trite. The room was cold, so he flow of the tide. Paired off as young. He saw himself in a flash­less; he was no sonneteer. He lessons that come in dreams are moved out of bed to put on a friends, they felt hedged in by back ofthe dream, coming home grieved because he hadn't taken for the dreamer. Perhaps young blanket. It was still early, and he affection, with privacy allowed from school with her, on a long time to stay In touch; the care­men, studying an old man's hadn't rested long enough, but them as their royal estate. They avenue he recognized, down a lessness had probably cost him dreams, could use them as al­he wanted to retain his dream. were sweethearts, perhaps, but steep hill, then right, until they part of his fulfillment; that was ternative versions of their vi­came to her house. He sat at a the way he was being punished sions. Why would young men white-topped kitchen table, by the gods. He didn't want to bother with a second-hand writing the poems as a surprise see her now, or for her to see dream, as though they didn't
Father Robert Griffin 

on the day she was 17. him. Meeting, they could disap­have a past of their own, about Now In this part of the dream point one another; he had no to come back to haunt them?

letters to o lonely God 
she wanted to hear him recite poems for her; she would not 

the set of sonnets again as a gift. dance for him. A regret Is nothing you can un­He wanted to write It down before never lovers who perjured them­He told her he had forgotten He wasn't sorry for his life or load with ease. Why was he hung the imagination, so entertaining selves by vows with eternity In them, and didn't have a copy. didn't have any will to relive It; over with worry, as though he with Its pictures of what never them. They spoke of doing She supplied him with some regrets are as useless as the had given up a chance of enter­was or could be, called back the things which would take forever pages and smiled as she laid crabgrass growing up unwanted. Ing heaven? "How can we know players from the stage and and a day, or at least the rest of them in his hands. Later, she had She was yesterday's news, and the dancer from the dance?" How dropped the curtain. Amnesia their lives, to finish. gone on a stage to dance for him. the dead had burled the dead. shall we tell hell from high water? drugged the mind with forgetful­After high school graduation, He appreciated the tenderness of He was not happy as an old man ness. He had dreamed of her they separated In sadness, each She was still lovely at 60. It her haunting his dreams as the dreaming dreams. The poet before, and he could almost re­with a different agenda, to take was a mature loveliness; he had insubstantial dream ballerina. Donne furnishes food for member a time before that. He paths that didn't cross, under no Impression she had stayed 0 body swayed to music, 0 thought: probably had been dreaming of stars unfavorable to their toget­young, even as a dancer. She brightening glance I long to talk with some old her for a couple of years. herness. was good on stage. The young How can we know the dancer lover's ghost 
"Old men dream dreams," he They would resume being the adults --he couldn't count the from the dance? who died before the god of love thought. Maybe old dreamers best of buddies In the college number, and never saw their fa-He had scribbled down notes was born..-: were not supposed to under­vacations; neither of them stand their dreams. Maybe realized they would soon say a GOING A dreams are like the strange lan­final goodbye. No pie In the sky guage which visits ecstatic Chris­would be waiting for them, tians praying In tongues. If the rejoined as fellow travellers, in a 
LONG DISTANCE 

language Is God-sent and holy, penthouse overlooking Broad­an Interpreter present In the way when they would, perhaps, FOR SPRING BREAK? circle of believers should be in­renegotiate their innocence in a spired by grace to explain the holy union allowing them to live message. Junglans make a reli­legally and licitly at the same gion out of dream Interpretation; swell address. he didn't want Junglans telling This mention of marriage was him what he meant. the only mutual lie they ever 
But If a 60-year-old is visited tolerated between them; mar­by some ghost from his uncon­riage, as they used It as a code scious --If he sees in a dream a word, signified their unwilling­face that was very dear to him ness to let go of the past. They 40 years ago, maybe youth could wanted to restructure the past as tell him what old age had forgot­a future option in the most fa­ten. Maybe a 20-year-old should vorable circumstances possible. be forewarned of the stuff that The grand passion, however, dreams are made of. He thought. was not a clause in the contract "I would be laughed at as a fool. they had in mind. They would or made a joke of, If I told my continue to be bonded as soul dreams. No one should be so Ill­mates, they hoped, until the time willed as to begrudge a man his came for them to become dreams --even if they're roman­romantics with emotional ties to tic --or be silly enough to think their own true loves. But life an old fellow Is past the age of hadn't shown them that part of lively dreaming." the game plan. Eros and Agape, 
They were never In love nor Venus and Cupid never offered spent time carrying on a them rentals on the high-priced romance. He was more sen­plateaus above the Platonic. timental toward her In these late­With the help of Christ and 14 breaking dreams than he had policemen, they might. when ever been when they were In they grew up enough, have en­school. They had had a good joyed the miraculous wine time In school. To paraphrase poured at cana. They would un­Lear, they lived, and prayed at derstand this only In hindsight. church, and sang in choir, and Now he had just dreamed of 
Break away with Clark Telecommunications FREE airfare to Florida. 
To enter our "Break Away Sweepstakes:· you must be a registered Notre Dame student and you must be 18 orAre you tired of this Northern Indiana winter ytll? 
older. Complete the entry form below and bring it to CTI'sLonging for warm sunshine? Sandy beaches? Aplace in on-campus office, Room G89 in the Notre Dame library.
the sun where you can relax and get away from the books Official entry forms are also available there. Current Notre
for awhile? How does Florida sound?

FREE 
Dame customers may enter. and there is no purchaseWhen you sign up for CTIIong distance between now necessary.
and February 25. you become eligible to win round trip The deadline for entry is February 25, 1987. So don'tairfare to the Florida city of your choice for you and a delay. You could break away to Florida this spring!
friend...the GRAND PRIZE in CTI's "Break Away

SOUPG&SALAD 
Sweepstakes." 
There is also aFIRST PRIZE of a$100 gift certificate to Tippicanoe Place and two SECOND PRIZES of $75 in ~-­

:,;, your choice o7me following entrees BUFF.E':f 
CTIIong distance calls. And the first 50 students who 
-.. -----­.. 
sign up for CTI quality long distance through this sweep­

plus Baked Potato, French Fries, Vegetable or Rice Pilaf 
& 
~-­
stakes offer will receive $5 in free long distance calls. ClarkTelecOOlll.Jnications, Inc.

•Cod Bella Vista • Prime Rib 
~----------------­
--,
0 Yes. Sign me up for CTIIong distance. ~FFICIA~REAK AWAY SWEEPSTAKES RULE-; ­

• Rolled Sole Only •Fried Seafood Only 
No purchase necessary. 
I 0 I already use CTIIong distance, but enter me in the I
1. CTI's Break Away Sweepstakes is open to all regtstered, full or par1-t1me

with Broccoli ~Q5 Platter ~5 
sweepstakes. Notre Dame students18 years or older. Employees of CTI and their lamlhes, rts subsKhanes, advertiSing and sweepstakes agents are not eflg1ble. Win­I
0 No. I'm not interested in long distance, but enter me ners' names Will be posted at CTI's on-campus office, Room G89, library.in the sweepstakes. 2. To enter the sweepstaJ<es, complete the entry form and return It to Room I G89 1n !he library between 8 am and 5 pm Monday through Friday; Entry 

•Cajun Chicken '~"'\J' •Chicken Teriyaki '~"" /.­
deadline Is 5 pm February 25. All entnes must be on offlctal entry forms available e1ther 1n the CTI ad in the Notre Dame Observer or •n CTI's on­

Available every evening, Feb. 2nd thru Feb. 28th 
I 
Name ______________________________ 
campus office, Room G89,1ibrary, One entry per student Not responsible for lost. late or misdirected entries. 
I

In Lounge FREE APPETIZERS Mon. thru Fri. 4:30 til 6:30 p.m. 
3. Winners will be selected 1n a random drawtng to be held on February 27,
School Address-----------------------­
1987. All pnzes will be awarded. By entering this sweepstakes, entrants agree I 
1to be bound by these rules and the decision of the JUdgeS will be lmal 
SWde~ID# 
Winners will be nottfied by telephone. No pnze subslllutlonB are allowed.


300 E. Colfax I
4. Prizes consist otfhe tollowfng· GRAND PRIZE Two round· trip plene tickers at the River to the Flonda City of your choice. TICkets must be used by December 31, 1987
Te~hone# 
and are subject to flight availabdtty. Arrangements tor the flight will be made I Return this entry form to Room G89 in the library between 8 am through CTI. Taxes If any are !he sole responsib<llly of !he winners Pnz" are
Reservations Accepted 
and 5 pm, Monday through Fnday Entry deadline IS February 25, non·lransferabla. FIRST PRIZE One $100~ft certificalalo T1pp1canoe Place. II 1987. OffiCial entry forms only_ no repiDduci/OfiS One entry per Soulh Bend, Indiana. SECONO PRIZES wo certlf1ca1es worth $75 In CTI I
234-4477 
student. Prizes are non-transferable. ~~~N~~L~"~~es,:~·~~Y T~) ;U:n~ ~~::n ~~~o:~~~Yc~· ~~~~;~,:
j__________________ servlce~llrecelve$5oftthetrflrstlongdistanceblllfromCiark~ ___j 

I I I 
L -· 


-------~----------------~--------­The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 7 

Sports Briefs 
The ND rowing club will have an aerobic workout for all members today at 5:15p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 9-15 at Stepan Fields. Sign-ups run through Feb. 4 from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the SAB office. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. For more information contact Mike (1155) or Christian (1300). -The Observer 
The Off Campus lacrosse team wants anyone interested in playing to call Dick or Bill at 289-4613. No equipment necessary. -The Observer 
The ND Kung Fu club will hold workouts tomorrow at 3 p.m. instead of 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. -The Ob­server 
The SMC varsity track team will have a meeting Monday, Feb. 4 at 4:30 p.m. at the Angela Lounge con­cerning the spring schedule. For more information contact 284-5548. -The Observer 
The NVA office has extended the deadline for its track meet to Wednesday, Feb. 4. Entries must be sub­mitted to the NVA office in the ACC for the Feb. 18 meet. 
The Observer 
Inside 
continuedfrom page 12 
and go from there with it, even against their zone," he said. "I just felt we didn't lose our com­posure." 
Mter the teams traded bas­kets for the opening minutes of the second half, Marquette scored on a Tony Reeder tip-in to give the Warriors a 36-29 lead. It would be the largest they would enjoy for the rest of the night. 
Mter a timeout, all of Notre Dame's inside work finally netted a result. With 15: 15 to play, David Boone committed his fourth foul, which was a sign of Warrior foul trouble to come. Marquette's leading scorer and rebounder came back in three minutes later, but he was not the force he was ear­lier. Boone managed only five points and one rebound in the second half. 
While Boone was limited, the Irish began to click offensively. With solid boardwork, Notre Dame climbed back into the game, and with 11:21 left to play, Sean Connor drilled a 
three-pointer to give the Irish 
a 39-38 lead, their first of the 
second half and their first since 
they led 7-6 early in the first 
half. 
Marquette quickly answered with baskets by Sims and John Ellenson, but two rebound bas­kets by Mark Stevenson gave Notre Dame the lead for good at 42-41. 
Marquette stayed close until a Rivers air ball found its way to Stevenson, who put the Irish ahead 49-46. It was the start of a nine-point run that would spell the end for the Warriors. 
The continual inside grind of Notre Dame put Marquette into foul trouble and the Irish were able to hit eight-of-ten free throws down the stretch to claim the victory. The foul trouble, resulting from the in­side pressure, did not escape Marquette head coach Bob Dukiet's notice. 
"We committed a lot of fouls tonight," he said. "We have been trying to get out of that habit, but we fell back in it tonight. We wanted to play ag­gressive defP..J~. and that's important, but without fouling them. Notre Dame got to the line much too often." 
The numbers support Dukiet's comments. Notre Dame shot 17-25 from the charity stripe, while Marquette hit five free throws in only nine attempts. That, along with a 31­24 rebounding edge, enabled the Irish to win, despite shoot­ing only 42 percent for the 
game. 
Royal and Rivers scored 16 points apiece to lead the Notre Dame. Royal and Gary Voce led the rebounding charge with nine and eight boards, respec­tively. Royal said the inside strength of the Irish was definitely a key. 
"The main part of their team is inside with Boone and (Tom)Copa," he said. "So we wanted to attack them and get them into foul trouble because they really don't have anybody that can come in and take their place." 
Boone led the Warriors with 14 points while Copa grabbed eight rebounds. 
The ObMnrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMnrer Saint Mary's offica, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cants per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 

PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277-5833 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

All a1udents are Invited to attend an ex­ercise conditioning program to be held in the north dome of the A.C.C. The ses­sions which will be progressive will run from Feb. 2-Mar. 1 1 on Mon., Tues., Thurs., and Fri. afternoons from 5:00­
6:00 p.m. 
We've got the BALLS and the brooms, so sign up today for the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices, 2nd floor LaFortunelll 
MUST GET TO OHIO FEB 6-8.$$CALL mike schadek x1 803 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST TAN WALLET. PLEASE FIND. REWARD IF RETURNED. CALL 201 7 
I lost my light blue key chain W' six keys. It has two £103 keys, and a £224 key. The key chain Ia the top half of a number one (£1 ). If you have found ~. please call Danny at x1719. 
Rewardll Help me get my wallet, chain, and ring backl Incredible sentimental value. No questions asked. Please help. Call 1988 or 1987 with Info. Rewardll 
LOST: at Bridget's sometime near the end of December--a BLACK MEN'S COAT. Keep the coat but PLEASE nstum theROOM KEYS in the pocket. 356 Alumni. 
LOST: BLUE LL BEAN NAPSACK AT SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE, I NEED MY GLASSES AND MY NOTES. IF FOUND, CALL 4859 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. 
LOST: G.E. WALKMAN WRADIO ON EARS, JANUARY 22 AT SAGA. PLEASE HELP CALL 284-5271 
LOST--STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKET (Before West Virginia Game) II found Please call Mark, £2151. Thank You. 
HELPI I LOST A PAIR OF TORTOISE­SHELL GLASSES IN A ROYAL BLUE CASE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LaFORTUNE AND PW ON 1/.!3. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL KIM AT 2845. 
FOUND SKI POLES ON SOPH SKI TRIP 3178 
LOST...GOLD BEAD NECKLACE.LOST ON DEC.15TH IN NO LIBRARY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL £3763. 
Lost: Purple key chain with two keys.PLEASE call 3829. 
LOST: men's ring, silver with a red stone(garnet).ll found please return to 1 124 grace or call me. Ricky--£3024 
LOST Heart-shaped Opal. It fell out of rts setting 1127. PLEASE if you find it, call 277-8033. Sentimental value. REWARD$$$. 
Lost-blue NO bookbag from table by F line N Dining Hall at dinner 1 -27 Any info? PLEASE call 38961 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be­tween PW & O'Shag 9:00-10:00. Please be kind and contact me II you are the one who found it x--2738 or bring it by 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
FOUND: Gold ring in Howard Saturday night Jan. 24. Call Maraya 2698 to iden­tify. 
REWARD for red Japanese ntbk. You have my name so call 2304 or leave It someplace dry where it'll be found. Going abroad-this is ESSENTIAL 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FALL SEMESTER 6638889 
3 BDRM HOUSE for '87-'88 school year NEAR CAMPUS-GREAT NBHD call PAT 
268·5006 ..•••• 1! ....................................................... . 
CHEAP AENTIITWO BEDROOM APT­NO AVE.-BEAT ANY PRICE-CALL MATT x3488 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-80Q-237-2061 
Summer job interviews-Average earn­ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales, and public natations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame campus telephone direc­tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. Complete training program In North Carolina. (Expen988 paid) LOOking for enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Sign up for interviews with University Directories at Career & Placement Ser­vices by Jan. 30. 
Students needed to help save lives. Watch T.V. and earn extra money. New clonors or former donors who haven't clonated plasma in the last 30 days will be paid $11.00 following inijial or return clonation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 bloci(S west of Burger King on US 2CY Uncotiiway West. Phone 234-8010. Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. 
HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut wants drivers w~ own car and In· surance.Call277·2662 or stop by 138 112 Dixie Way No. In Roseland. 
Campus travel representatives needed to promote Spring. Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call inter-Campus Programs at 1-800-433-7747 for details and information mailer. 
................................................................ 
FORSALE 
I 
D A SUPER SALE D SUNDAY FEB.1-6 1-4PM D 50% PEA­CENT OFF OF ALL CLOTH­ING,SAVINGS ON FURNITURE AND GIFTWAAE, D RECORDS AND TAPES, AND PAPERBACKS 5.$1.00 D JOINT 
THIRFT 1023 S. MICH. ST. 
TICKETS 
Need Tickets Deaparately to both the North Carolina and Duke beaketball games. Either student or GA'a. Call Ertc at 272-9123. 
HELPtl Mom and Dad are comingl I DESPEAATEL Y need 2 Carolina GA's Will pay BIG$$ Call Kerstin 4036 
NEED UNC TICKETS CALL NANCY 277·5626 
NEED 1 NORTH CAROLINA STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET. CALL MIKE AT 2180 
I NEED 1 STU OR GA FOR N.C. X 3831. 
NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA G.A.'S CALL MONICA 4041 WILL PAY BIG MONEYIIIII 
NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR NC GAMEICALL TOM-1774 
HELP. NEED 4 TIX FOR N.C. WILLING TO PAY WHATEVER. CALL 4095. 
I NEED ONE TICKET TO THE NOOOATH CAROLINA GAME SUN· DAY. PLEASE CALL MICHAEL AT 283· 
1644 
I need 2 Duke or UNC GAs. Please call Will at 1662. Thanks. 
NEED 4 N CAROLINA GAS $ 284-5013 ELISA 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR DUKE GAME CALL DIANE 284 4373 
I need a DUKE student ticket or GA. Call Mary at 2750. 
I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equi­leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. 
TICKETS NEEDED for Carolina game. Offering top $ for 4 Stud tix. Call THE URGE at 287-5616. 
NEED 2 DUKE TIXI $$$$$ CLARE x2916 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FEB. 15 DUKE GAME. CALL KATHY 284-5310 
PERSONALS 
Part-time mktg. pas. on campus. Poten­tial to make $6ttr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592·2121. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED! 
MECNOISE CONCERT Sat., Jan. 31 8 p.m. $5 at the door Stepan Canter apona. by SAB 
Athletic, well groomed, morally secured male; Looking for sincere friendship, Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165 lbs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from you. All responses are welcomed and 'answered. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, 81B0981, Box-149, Attica, NY 14011 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MAUREEN ERNYI JAN. 30 IS FINALLY HERE II YOU ARE THE BIG 22...CALL MAUREEN AT 284·5230 AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Are you in a campus band? Would you like some FREE publicity? Contact Mary at either 239-531 3 or 272-3833 before Friday. 
WANTED: ONE KNOWLEDGE HAM· MEA. Willing to pay BIG BUCKS. Call Max at 1384. 
Summer Service applications deadline is February 2. Students work in social ser­vice for 8 weeks In return for a $1200.00 tuition scholarship. For more information contact the Center for Social Concema..239-7887. 
Go~HeU,CaroUna 
WINTERFEST '87 dAOOMBALL TOUANEYIII sign up at SAB offices 2nd floor LaFortune 
BAOOMBALLIII BAOOMBALLIII BROOMBALLIII BROOMBALLIII BAOOMBALLIII 
Of thee we sing, Usa. 
Birthday greeUngs we bring, Usa. 
May happiness be ever yours, Usa. 
Today, tomorrow, et toujours, Usa/ 
God love you. We do. 
Aunt Soph and Uncle Med 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
GOING TO BOILERMAKER COUNTRY??? LOOking for a ride to Purdue any weekend! Please call Kath· teen at 4036... 
Wargamming opponents wanted for CIVILIZATION and DIPLOMACY. Call Chas, x1766 
BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS at Irish Gardens In LaFortune send an arrangement to your friends BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS 
Lisa Hollenbeck Let's do lunch Senior Bar next Friday, 
Joe 
C.T.K.H.S. 
Beware 
We are The Committee 
To Keep Her Sober 
We will be protecting 
LISA HOLLENBECK (we can be bought however) 
SOPHOMORE CLASS RETREAT SAT. FEB. 7th -ONE DAY -9AM·9PM­SIGN-UP BY FRIDAY, JAN. 30th IN SOPH. CLASS OFFICE. 
SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS WITH 
MONK MALLOY SUNDAY, FEB. 1 7:00PM ZAHM CHAPEL 
F5 STEAMBOAT COLORADO SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP INFORMATIONAL MEETING: MONDAY, FEB 2 AT 7:30 IN LAFORTUNE LmLE THEATER ••• DEADLINE FOR SIGNUPS FEB 8 
STILL CAN'T TELL THEM APART? IT DOESN'T MATTEAI RICKY AND RANDY BOTH TURN 20 TODAY II happy b-day fellas, luv, liz 
Desperately need ride to Columbus on Valentine's Day weekend! Call Aos x3352 
...AIDE OA RIDERS NEEDED TO PUADUE-W.LAFAYETTE WKND OF 02-08-08 CALL KIM l!84-5535 I'M DESPAAATEIII..' 
NEEDEDIII ONE KEENAN REVUE TICKETIII FAt OR SAT CALL 284-5500 
"-KEENAN REVUE""' 0' Laughling 
7:30 tonlghtllll 
The guy at the Huddle at 12:30 28 Jan 87 eating Ice cream and wearing a v -neck sweater. The girl in the NO cap would like to talk to you. Call 284 -4182. 
For Sale: One Knowledge Hammer (slightly used ) Price: $5.01 (I have to make a protn) Call Max ar 1384. 
There's no such color as Carolina Blue. It's really called BABY Blue 
Hey, J.A., how do you spell your name? 
The Dean's going down, Dupree 
Now isn't that special What a guess-so close and yet...so far. Maybe If you REVUE your list, you'll find that you missed someone, CAPTAIN KOSHER. 
DIANNNE, After much thought and dis· cussion, I agree wHh you totally. Hope­fully, Will and I aren't included In the gen­eral classification, but I'll understand If we are. MIKE (the WAVE) Living color IS more fun than newaprint,true. But I never meant for H to happen.SOARYI 
To Lisa I 
Happy 21 at Birthday 
Maybe now you can legally drink at any 
St. Louis brewery . 
Love, Lisa II, Maria, Nelson & the Stan­
ford Studs 
T.B.K.· Happy 19th to my main squeeze I Love you, Teddy )(J(J( 
To Capt81n S.S.-(and that dloes not stand 
for STEVE SCHUEPPEAT) 
'Whoopeeee" ~·a your b-dayl 
Affectionately, 
the Wild Women 
LISA HOLLENBECK-
Giad your 21 -Joe & Wilson are finally off 
the hookl (te he) 
Love, L&C 
To the best big sister in the worldlll Happy 21st LISA! Love, Laurie XOXO 
ATTENTION MR. AND MRS. WHITEIII WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME HOPE THE IRISH GIVE YOU A WIN 
MEN OF NO-AMY SMITH is 21 todayll Stop by 422 B.P., call £1346 or catch her at Senior Bar and make It a birthday she won't FOAGETIII 
GARY GAMINO.-So...how's life the day after the 21? 
Good Luck this weekend C DiDonato! We Love Val Luehrs & Cher 
Thank you St. Judel MCL 
To our good friends In 321 Howard: Thanks for lnvrtlng us to such a great party. We appreciate the hospitality. We'll be there for the next one tool Love, Chria,Meg,Theresa,Jennlfer 
Good Luck, T~ahl 
We'ns all wetching you 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be­tween PW & O'Shag 9:00 ·10:00. Please be kind end contact me If you are the one who found ~ x-o2738 or bring Hby 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
"'"KEENAN REVUE"'" 0' Laughling 
7:30 tonlghtllll 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FEB. 15 DUKE GAME. CALL KATHY 284-5310 
DANCEIDANCEIDANCEI 
Council for the Retarded will sponser a dance at LOGAN CENTER on Fri. Jan. 30 from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. 
MATTHEW: 
1
. Don't worry too much 

2. 
Don1 undensstlmate yourself 

3. 
Don't make me kill you 

4. 
DO remember that ... you bring me joy ... ~h Love, from ... well, I think you know. 



-----~~----~-------­
Friday, January 30, 1987-page 8 
The Observer 

Fencers head to Detroit for meeting with rival Wayne St. 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 

Although few people will notice it, few headlines will be written about it, and few letters will be written home describing it, a clash of the titans in the Midwest will be going on this weekend. 
Like any sport, fencing has its great rivalries, and Notre Dame-Wayne State is no exception. Tomorrow's meet in Detroit will mark the 42nd time the two peren­nial fencing powers have stared at each other across the strip, and while the Irish lead the series 27-14, those 14 losses are the most the Irish have suffered against a single opponent since 1934. 
Coming into this year's matchup, the 5-0 Irish, riding a 58-meet win streak, take on the 5-1 Tartars, who fell last Saturday to Illinois, 17-10. 
One crucial change in the lineup for Wayne State is the loss of Markus Muller, the Tartars' premiere sabreman, who finished second in last year's 
N.C.A.A. tournament. Mul­ler left Wayne State before the fencing season, and if he had bothered to stay, he would have been a major ob­stacle for Head Coach Mike DiCicco's Irish. 
"He left this year, I can't tell you why. I could prob-
ND hockey takes on Stevens Point; Smith anticipates tough weekend 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team hopes to put what Head Coach Lefty Smith calls "a great week of practice" to good use when it takes on Wisconsin­Stevens Point in a two-game se­ries this weekend. 
Both games, on Friday and Saturday nights, face off at 7:30 
p.m. at the ACC rink. 

Smith, the 19-year veteran head coach of the Irish, is looking for ways to alleviate his squad's shooting woes, and he's seen some gradual improve­ment in that area in the past week. 
"We seem to be moving the puck better on offense, which is usually an indication of bet­ter things to come as far as scoring goes," said Smith. 

ably guess, but since it's a guess I'd just as soon not talk about it," DiCicco said. 
"He would be one of the class sabremen in the country, and without him they become just a good team, but they'd be a great team with him." 
Two of the other three sabremen for Wayne State, Neil Kessler and James Klemic, will be returning, and that tandem combined with replacement Matthew Doswman have whipped up on opponents to a .796 win­ning percentage. Kessler posts a record of 17-1. 
What makes the Tartars' sabre team less fearsome to DiCicco is that they will be running up against senior captain Kevin Stoutermire, who is now the hottest thing on the strip for the Irish. 
"Kevin Stoutermire has demonstrated by his perfor­mance last weekend that he would have been at least one of the major challenges that Muller would have had this year," said DiCicco. "Wit­hout Muller, then he be­comes the ranking sabreman in the Midwest. 
"If Kevin can hold it up and build on it, then con­ceivably he can have a good weekend against Wayne State, Detroit, and the others. Right now he's the hottest fencer we've got. He's 11-0." 
"Deflections, tip-ins,and the like tend to happen when all five people move the puck well on offense. 
"We'll be playing three lines instead of four this weekend to try to maintain some continuity on the ice, and I've been quite pleased with the line of Bob Bil­ton, Bob Herber, and Frank O'Brien. They've really taken some of the pressure off of our first line."' 
The Irish and the Pointers played each other in a tourna­ment last November and, despite a good effort from Notre Dame, Stevens Point won the game. But Smith seems happy with his team's level of confidence going in to the weekend. 
''Wisconsin-Stevens Point has good experience and excel­lent team quickness," ex­
---Ihe-Obse..----~~-­
. -~-=Y=-~A.-=-­
The Observer is now recruiting for the following positions: 
Business Page Writers 
Interested applicants should contact Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune or by phone at 239-7471 . 
In the other events, the Irish remain strong in the foil, with the all-American tandem of Charles Higgs­Coulthard and Yehuda Kovacs. They will have to contend with A very Goldstein, who is 16-2 for the Tartars. But beyond that, Wayne State has little to of­fer the Irish in the way of resistance. 
The epee will present DiCicco with his biggest worry. The Tartars list Ulf Lernesjo (15-3) and Guillermo Lande ( 11-7) to go against the Irish. While Lande's record may not be impressive, he went unde­feated against Illinois, which DiCicco feels is the strongest team in the Mid­west. 
"Epee's that way. Epee's the kind of weapon where you can fence and look like a national champion one day and a national chump the next. You get a hot point and you're there," said DiCicco. 
"I expect to beat Wayne State, if you want to know the truth, because I think we do have the kind of sabre team that will give Wayne all they want as far as win­ning the weapon. 
"If we can win the sabre 5-4 or better, we beat Wayne State. If we don't, then it's going to be a donnybrook. Then it'll be touches." 
plained Smiti1. "They're rela­tively big and they hustle, but our boys know that we can play with them. It should be a hard­hitting contest that we're all looking forward to." 
The 7-11 Irish are hurting heading into the series, however. Sophomores Brian Montgomery and Tom Smith will both miss action because of injuries, while senior John Nickodemus and junior Lance Patten are questionable for Friday night's game. Junior Jeff Henderson will start in goal for the Irish on Friday night and senior Tim Lukenda will take over on Saturday. 
These two games are the final regular season home con­tests of the year. The American Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs will take place at the ACC at the end of the season. 
I 
I 
The Observer/Greg Kohs 
Tim Lukenda hopes to shut out Wisconsin-Stevens Point tonight and tomorrow night at the ACC. Pete Skiko previews the action in his story below. 
Steve Nicgorski got in on the board action, grabbing two in
Boards 
his 14 seconds of playing time. 
continuedfrompage 12 
And though the Irish rebounding has suffered fromof the half, and the team a lack of respect, outrebound­grabbed three of the five ing the opposition actually ismissed attempts. 
nothing new to them this 
Royal and Voce finished with season. Notre Dame currently nine and eight rebounds, averages 7.3 more rebounds a respectively. Even forward game than its opponents. 

Ir·········~-·-, 
~-,I ~)-~ 
I -*-~<i'~ ..,~4'Q ~ 
~ -~ ,, ' ~ :t>e.r I ~ ~-~ 
I INVITES YOU! I 
~ *TWO FOR ONE NIGHTS= ~ 
~ THURSDAYS' FRIDAYS & SUNDAYS I r• 6pm -llpm ~ 
I·MIDNIGHT MI\..DNESS= 
I 
Ll WARNING•••DO"'T GET CAUGHT I ~ WITH YOUR rAJ A.I'IAS Orll ~ 
~ SATURDAYS -MIDNIOHT to 4AM ~ 
Ll Ski World Invites you to experience the atmosphere IJ ~ of "Moonlight" Skiing. ~
I YOU'V~ OOT TO SKI IT TO B~LI~V~ IT ~ 
I SKI WORLD 14547 N. MAIN STREET ~ ,. BUCHANAN, MICHIGAN 49107 a1 
~ (616) 695-3847 ~ 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 9 
John Carroll is the name to beat as wrestlers host Catholic tourney 


Fans 
continuedfrom page 12 
support has been on the decline. And that's a shame. 
The lack of fan support hasn't been confined to basketball ­it's spread to football as well. In the past, the players on the field didn't have to wave their arms to get the crowd going. 
It used to be that teams hated to play at Notre Dame Stadium or the ACC. They used to be snakepits, but no longer. Joe Paterno was quoted last season as saying that the Notre Dame mystique is gone. Writers at the press table ask what's wrong with the Irish students and that they had heard that the ACC rocked. 
"Yeah, but the teams aren't as good now as they once were," you argue. But that should be an argument for more noise. When the teams are down, they need the stu­dents even more. It's easy to cheer when a team is 9-0 or up 25 points. Being down is bad enough, but when a team is down and without support, it's infinitely worse. 
"Yeah, but the Irish are slowing down the game and it's boring," you rejoin. So put a little more pressure on the op­ponents. Rattle them into making a mistake on D. 


"~oweltS fprr aQ~ occagiong.H 
Come in and Browse 
3l7Lincolnway 23l-33S4 
Alcohol Awareness Week 
Free Soda after Midnight! 
also... 

75$ drafts for Senior Club Cups all Weekend 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Most students might be wor­rying about names like Kenny Smith, Joe Wolf, and J.R. Reid haunting the Irish at the ACC on Sunday, but the Notre Dame wrestling team is more con­cerned with the name of John Carroll. 
John Carroll is the school with the best shot of keeping the Irish from defending their National Catholic Wrestling Tournament championship on Sunday at the ACC North Dome. Preliminary rounds start at 9:30a.m., and the finals begin at 7 p.m. 
"It will be a two team race 
between John Carroll and our­
selves, then after that probably 
Seton Hall and Marquette," 
said Irish coach Fran McCann. 
"Wrestling is John Carroll's big 


One thing you can say about the Notre Dame students, to borrow the language of Dick Vitale, is that they are PTP, redlight fans. That is, fans who really play when their team is on national television and have an uncanny knack of knowing which camera is aimed at them at any given time. But if a game is only on regionally, like West Viriginia, or not on a major network, like Dayton, forget it. We'll sit it out. 
It's really easier to cheer against a top-rated team than somebody like Eastern Mic­higan or Cornell. But if you can rattle the weaker teams into mistakes early on, everyone can go home early, including thelrish. Youdon'tknowhow important you really are at a basketball game. A few years ago when Irish head coach Dig-sport. Before last year, John Carroll had won the National Catholic Tournament for about eight years in a row." 
Last year, Notre Dame fi­nally ended John Carroll's reign by winning the champi­onship impressively, as the Irish had wrestlers in the finals of nine of the ten weight classes. McCann feels that Notre Dame has a good chance of repeating as champions. 
"We have the people to win the tournament. We need help from other teams to knock off John Carroll," said McCann. "We're hoping to have Jerry Durso and Tom Ryan back in the lineup (both have been in­jured). If not it's going to be tough to win. 
"We don't have the balance we had last year, but I still think we have the people to win 
ger Phelps was touring the dorms, he told a story from the days when Bill Laimbeer was patrolling the paint for the Irish. When Laimbeer came in from the pregame warm ups, he was visibly angry. When Phelps asked what was wrong, Laimbeer replied that the stu­dents hadn't shown up. 
Mter Tuesday night's game, Gary Voce said it was really exciting to hear the students cheering for him. It does count. 
With that in mind, the number-one North Carolina Tarheels come to town Sunday in a game that no one should have a problem getting up for. Two tight losses in as many years to the Tarheels have the Irish hungry for a win at the ACC. And they need your help. 
Stand the entire game, espe­cially during the timeouts. 
The Observer is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 
Interested Sophomore or .Junior 
Accounting Majors should submit a 
personal statement to Alex 
VonderHaar by 5 p.m. on Friday, 
January 30. 
3RD Floor Lafortune Student Center 239-5303 
The Governor's Fellowship Program 
Seeks top 1986/87 graduates for management training program in state government. 
Applications Available: 
Governor's Fellowship 
Room 206 State House 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
it. Nobody in this tournament has faced the competition we have." 
Notre Dame met some of this kind of competition on W ednes­day, as the Irish fell to unde­feated, 12th-ranked Purdue, 33­
9. Freshman 118-pound Andy Radenbaugh, junior 150-pound Ron Wisniewski, and sop&o­more 167-pound Chris GeneSt!l were the sole Irish winners. The loss dropped the Irish to 1-6 in dual meets. Purdue got 12 of its points from Notre Dame forfeits. 
"I thought it was a good ef­fort for us. The score wasn't indicative of how the meet went. We were better condi­tioned than they were; we out­wrestled them and lost," said McCann. "Purdue's just on a roll. They're having their best start in history." 
Make enough noise that Dean Smith has problems giving his squad instructions. Bring torn T -shirts to wave during the game. Remember how the Tar­heels whined about the rough inside play of the Irish last year and said they should wear tearaway jerseys the next time they faced Notre Dame? 
Taunt the 'Heels by singing 
N.C. State's or Duke's fight 
song,  as  well  as  literally  
screaming our o wn,  more fa­ 
mous one.  

Do almost anything you want, but watch throwing things on the court. That could cost the Irish a few technicals, and they can't afford to give Carolina any freebies. 
If you have to, borrow a few chants from the students at Duke, who have won much ac­claim for their intelligence in fandom. A few of their favorites against Carolina are: "State School, private school" and "We're smart, you're dumb." 
Those are intelligent? Hey, We Are ND. We're definitely smarter than anyone there. We should be able to come up with cheers better than that, and we have until Sunday at 1 p.m. to do it. 
And Phelps has some sugges­tions of his own. 
"I want the students there a half-hour before the game, and I want to hear that traditional chant," he said. "You were number one." If anything, prove how wrong the world is. Prove that Notre Dame's spirit isn't dead. Don't call me and tell me how wrong I am. Show me Sunday afternoon. More importantly, show me next Wednesday when the Irish take on LaSalle, a team that's doing well and could be a rough cus­tomer. 
Finally, there is one cheer that Duke has that the Tarheels find particularly loathsome. It really isn't too polite, but all's fair in war. 
"Go to Hell, Carolina." 
Correction 
Because of an information error, the Farley A women's interhall basketball team was incorrectly reported as being undefeated. Lyons had beaten Farley A last week by seven points. 

The Observer Friday, January 30, 1987-page 10 
Phelps, Irish prepare for Tar Heels hoping that mighty No. 1 falls 
By MARTY BURNS Assistant Sports Editor 
Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball team want to create another "Notre Dame Moment." 
But they know that moment can take a long time -40 minutes to be exact. That's the amount of time Phelps' 11-5 Irish must play relentless defense, pound the boards, and otherwise frustrate No.1 North Carolina (18-1) when the two teams link up Sunday after­noon at 1 p.m. in the ACC. 
"We'll have to play intense basketball and do all the things we want to do for 40 minutes and see if that's good enough," said Phelps. "(North Carolina) is just so relentless that you think you're doing well for four or five minutes at a time -but the minute you relax they'll take advantage of it." 
If any team in America has learned the painful truth of Phelps' statements, it is the Irish. Almost a year to the date, Notre Dame had the then top­ranked Tar Heels on the ropes at Chapel Hill, N.C., 53-53, late in the game. But, as is typical of the great discipline Carolina head coach Dean Smith instills in his squads, the Tar Heels held Notre Dame scoreless for over seven minutes and pulled away to an easy 73-61 win. 
That tough loss, in fact, was the second consecutive one to the Tar Heels for the Irish -they dropped a second-round NCAA Tournament game two years ago on a last-second shot. In that contest as well, Notre Dame played tough for most of the game, only to see it slip away at the conclusion. 
The fact that the Notre Dame players have a score to settle with North Carolina is not lost on Phelps, who hopes his team can use it as a motivating tool without letting it interfere with their patented slow-down, control-the-tempo offense. 
"I think our players know that we've been able to play with them each of the last two seasons, and that should be a bit of a confidence-builder," said Phelps. "We've generally done a good job all year playing at our tempo. But in our losses recently, we've had a break­down somewhere that really cost us." 
The job of controlling the tempo for the Irish will, of course, fall to junior point guard David Rivers. While Rivers has been struggling in his shooting from the floor of late (his scoring average this season is down to 15 points per game), he will have the addi­tional task of having to contain All-America candidate Kenny Smith. Smith, a 6-3 point guard averaging over 17 points a game, is coming off a 41-point performance Wednesday night that helped Carolina beat 18th­ranked Clemson, 108-99. And the senior floor-leader was listed as doubtful going into that contest because of a sprained knee. 
"Kenny's going to have a great year," said his coach, whose seen more than a few great players wear Carolina blue over the past 25 seasons. "He does an excellent job on the fast break and he has be­come a very sound defensive player." 

The Observer/File photo 
North Carolina's Kenny Smith, one of a host of 'Heels without souls, will lead his top-ranked team into the ACC Sunday after­noon. Marty Burns previews the crucial game in his story at left. 
But, as usual, North Carolina has more than one great player on which to rely. Sophomore Jeff Lebo (13.2 ppg.) comple­ments Smith well in the back­court, while a pair of 6-10 seniors, Joe Wolf and Dave Popson team up underneath to usually thwart any success in­side for their opponents. The two, who have combined to average over 26 points and 13 rebounds a game, may be a step slower than Irish forwards Donald Royal and Mark Stevenson, but they will make whoever enters the paint pay for it physically. 
Then there is J.R. Reid. The most-observed Tar Heel rookie since Michael Jordan, the 6-9 Reid has disappointed few fans, averaging over 12 points and seven rebounds from his center position. 
"North Carolina is ex­tremely deep and talented," noted Phelps. "They throw so many talented athletes at you that you just can't let up. They will be a tremendous chal­lenge." 
Already this season college powers like Illinois, Duke, and Purdue have failed to handle the challenge presented by North Carolina. In fact, few have been able to handle the Tar Heels this decade -they have finished in the top ten of the polls for the past six seasons. 
Notre Dame's a team, however, that built its reputa­tion on upsetting No. 1 teams on the home court of the ACC. Few remember the last time it happened, though, in 1980 when De Paul fell off its perch atop the nation. Since then, the Irish have always been just a mo­ment or two away. 
On Sunday, a national televi­sion audience and a capacity crowd of 11,345 will pack the ACC to see if, this time, Notre Dame can make a "Moment" with 40 minutes. 


~t[Jt~tCil~----------------------------------------------------•F•r-id~ay~,-Ja•n•u~ar~y~30~,~19~8~7~-p~a;ge~11 

Campus 
FRIDAY SUNDAY 
8 p.m.: Talk: "Central America's Chal­11 a.m.: Spanish Mass, Holy Cross As­lenge to our Politics and Faith" emphasis s~ciates from Chile will give the homily, on Nicaragua, by Jack & Sara Nelson­with reflection on their 2 years in Chile,Pallmeyer, Center for Social Concerns Farley Hall Chapel, sponsored by CSC7, 9:15, 11:30 P.M.: Movie: "The Gods 7 p.m.: Gospel Choir Concert, first eventMust Be Crazy" $1.50, Engineering of Black Cultural Arts Festival, all wel­Auditorium come to attend, Washington Hall 
1 a.m. (Mter Keenan Review) : Post­Keenan Review Party, free admission with ticket stub or bring $1, Chameleon 
Room, ACC . Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

SATURDAY Roast Turkey Breast 9 a.m. -1 p.m.: Workshop: "Living the Brown Beef Saute w!Noodles Challenge of a Simple Lifestyle", by Jack Broiled Haddock Jardinere & Sara Nelson-Pallmeyer, CSC Dilly Burger 7,9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie: "The Gods Must Be Crazy", $1.50, Engineering 
Saint Mary's

Auditorium 8 p.m.: MEONoise Concert, Marginal Cod Parisienne Man (Wash.,D.C.), Precious Wax Drip­Pizza pings (Chicago), N.D.'s own Youth in Asia Broccoli Cheese Potato & Damaged Retina, $5. Stepan Center Deli Bar 
Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 


• Free Pregnancy Tnu 
• FrM Confidential, Individual & Couple COUnseling 
~~ 

• Free Referral To Support Agencies 


Beer Nuts Mark Williams 

SAB Presents 
MEC I Noise Concert 
Answer yes to any ofthese 

Do you have a pierced ear (right or left)? Hang out in LaFortune too much? questions and we've got Got a new wave doo? music for you! 
Who: Marginal Man(Washington D.C.) Precious II1CIX Drippings(Chicago N.D.'s o..,n Youth in Asia Darnaged Retina 
SAB presents: 
The Gods Must Be Crazy 7,9:15,11 :30 Fri., Sat. $1 .50 EG Auditorium 
. BENDIX WOODS, Feb. 12 
-sign-ups Feb.2-6 SAB -bus leaves at 8prn 2nd floor LaFortune $5 
Applications for Student Activities Board positions available starting Feb. 2nd on 2nd floor LaFortune 

• 
Confidential cant 

• 
Medical Referral Service 


• Post Abortion COUnseling 
234·0363 
417 N. ST. LOUIS BLVD. 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
1H/5 VNffJtmiN~ flfFIIIR Wl/5 10 ~Nfl SflweN!.Y {?()WN IN 'MIU&K'.f Ml/1? ft.llTS'WffH ~ 
fNJI/KY. J/N/1 Wlfft~ eV&Nrfj MI/I?K£(1 WITH IJ€N&RIII.. Cll/105, 
1r Wl/5. Neri~Rllf({..~55. AfP!If?&Nr W f/{..1.. THIIT TH&' 
•
*24 HOUR HELPlJIE* 
One ... From The Non o.m. c.m~ 
-
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Enjoyed 6 Stop! 
11 Solidify 14 Anoint old 
style 15 Appraisal man 16 Actress Mary 17 61A, 11D 
and 28D? 19 Highway hotel 20 Mountainous 21 Convicts 23 Plants 25 Diva Eames 26 Certain horses 29 Makes beloved 32 -, amas, amat 33 Reasonable 35 Certain one 
of 21A 37 Prepare for 
action 39 Antelope 41 Muse number 42 Slaves 44 To-(pre­
cisely) "1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved
45 Wind dir. 

46 Metric measure 6 Curved 48 Converted 7 Ripening tub 
into money 8 Bell town 51 Cutting 9 Fished in 52 Series of a way 
steps 10 Revolving 54 Puncture coal sieve 
an ego 11 Undersea 57 Imagine performer? 60 Onassis 12 Fish-eating 61 Undersea bird 
performer? 13 Telescope 64 "-the season glass 
to be... " 18 Alive: Lat. 65 Rye blight 22 With full 66 Fr. aunt force old 67 Cigar end style 68 Thinks 24 Advisory 69 Show disdain councils 

26 Leaf 38 Transferable 53 Leans DOWN 27 Mennonites picture 54 Things known 
1 --tse 28 Undersea 40 Arrive at a 55 Gr. goddess 
2 Quechuan performer? choice 56 Advantage 
3 Poet's ship 30 Island goose 43 Shot up 58 Trident part 
4 Pass 31 Common-47 Raiment 59 lt. family 
5 Hosiery yarn 34 Like a wing 49 Puts on guard 62-Deluise unit 36 Donna or Rex 50 Marine animal 63 That girt 
Applications due Feb. 13 
-. 


______________,______-=-----~-----..-..------------------...--~.......--~~­
Friday, January 30, 1987 -page 12

S~orts 
58-48 Irish win sends Marquette packing again 
When crowd wakes up, so too will the echoes 
Front line keys win with play underneath 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 

One of the question marks at the beginning of the season for the Irish was rebounding. But if Mark Stevenson, Donald Royal and Gary Voce have their way, the campus won't be hearing the names Kempton, Barlow and Dolan anymore. 
The Irish used strong offense rebounding to turn
-around a 10-point deficit and beat Marquette, 58-48. Notre Dame out-boarded Marquette, 31-24, and grabbed ten more offensive rebounds than the War­riors. "Rebounding hurt us tonight," said Warrior head coach Bob Dukiet. "We're not that big and quick. The boards just didn't go our way tonight." Actually rebounding help put the Irish in a hole early in the game. The Warriors out-rebounded the Irish in the first half, 13-10. "At halftime we only had three offensive rebounds," said Stevenson. "We had to go to the boards because they're not that good of defensive rebounders." Stevenson grabbed four of the team's 13 offensive rebounds in the second half, converting three of them into points for the Irish. Stevenson finished with 13 points and six rebounds. Voce and Royal matched Stevenson with four of­fensive rebounds apiece. Voce also kept the ball alive many times, tipping the ball away from the shorter Marquette players. "One of the points (Head Coach Digger Phelps) made at the half was that we need offensive rebounds," said Voce. "We want Sean (Connor) shooting the three-point shot, and it's up to us if he misses to get the boards." Last night the three-point gamble paid off, as Connor's home run gave the Irish their first lead 
see BOARDS, page 8 
Reportedly, USA Cable Network's Bucky Waters referred to the crowd at Tuesday night's Notre Dame-Dayton game as a "painting" be­cause it was so still and quiet for most of the game. 
Yesterday's edition of The Observer ran a letter from a 1969 alumnus which decried the apathy the fans at the ACC showed when the Irish played host to the Mountaineers of West Virginia two weeks ago. 
You know what? 
They're right. 

Until Gary Voce began to assert himself in the second half of the Dayton game, the fans acted as if they still were sitting in their 1 : 15 physics lecture. As soon as the teams were introduced, the crowd settled down for a short winter's nap. 

Freshman Ca..y Emigholz and the women's basketball team hope to continue the string of Irish victories against Marquette tomorrow at the ACC. 

Mark Stevenson aided the Irish cause last night with four offensive rebounds during Notre Dame's 58-48 win against Marquette. 

Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 
Against West Virginia, everyone should have stayed at home, for all the noise they made. The ACC was a tomb filled with 11,418 barely warm bodies. While this sort of behavior is barely ex­cusable by those from town, it is unforgivable by the students, the friends, classmates and peers of those on the court. 
The spirit showed signs of returning last night, 
Women seek first NSC victory as Lady Warriors visit tomorrow 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will be seeking their first North Star Confer­ence win Saturday with a 1 p.m. contest against Marquette. The Irish, defending conference champions for the past two years, have an 0-2 conference record with losses to DePaul and Dayton. 
The Warriors will also be seeking their first conference victory in a place that has been unfriendly to them in recent history. Their past three visits to the ACC have resulted in Notre Dame victories, includ­ing last year's 75-42 rout. In fact, the Irish have controlled the series since 1982, winning the five games by an average of 35 points. 
Notre Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao doesn't put much importance into the im­pressive statistics of the past, however. 
"They've got a new coach, a new point guard and an infu­sion of new energy," said DiS­tanislao. "They're playing very well -more aggressive than in the past." 
The Irish are looking for a little dose of energy themselves 
ND makes it 7 straight with second-half surge 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
The game plan was the same. The results were different. The key was execution. 
Improved ballhandling, strong offensive rebound­ing and a little luck helped Notre Dame come back from a five-point halftime deficit and claim its seventh straight victory over Marquette, 58-48, last night. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps said his team was trying to get the ball inside all game long, they just did it better in second half. And it paid off. 
"We thought we could go after their people inside a lot" he said. "What happened to us (was) we had some turnovers and put ourselves in some negative situations with turnovers, shot selection and no of­fensive rebounds." 
Those problems combined to put the Irish ten points behind in the first half. Marquette vaulted from a seven-all tie to take leads of 21-11 and 23-13 with the help of Notre Dame mistakes at the offen­sive end. 
An interception of a Mark Stevenson pass led to Michael "Pops" Sims' three-point play. Sean Con­nor and Jamere Jackson could not hook up on a pass in the lane and it resulted in a Tom Copa rebound basket. Sims knocked the ball free from David Rivers and scored two more easy points. Sims scored again off a Tony Reeder steal, and the lrish found themselves on the short end of a 23-13 score. 
The Irish came back within three and had the ball, but Rivers missed a jumper and Mike Flory powered a shot over Gary Voce to give Marquette the 28-23 lead at the intermission. 
Despite the deficit, Phelps stayed with his original intentions of pounding the ball inside. "Again, we just felt we had to keep going inside 
see INSIDE, page 7 
complete with scornful answers to the introduction of Marquette's starting lineup, but it still has a long way to go. 
Because it's still a far cry from ten years ago. On March 1, 1977, San Francisco came to the ACC riding a 29-game winning streak and sporting a number-one ranking. With crowd roaring in their ears, the Irish whipped the Dons, 93-82, behind Don William's 25 points. But the highlight of that game almost 10 years ago was when NBC, which televised the game nationally, named the Notre Dame student body the MVP of the game. 
It hasn't happened since. If anything, the fan 
see FANS, page 9 
after a disappointing last­minute loss to Dayton, 55-54, on Wednesday night. The Irish have played a strong inside game all season, led by sopho­more Heidi Bunek and junior Sandy Botham, but DiStanisao still is in search of solid outside shooting. 
"We still have to find some­body to do it (hit the outside shot) consistently," said DiS­tanislao. "Mary Gavin and Diondra Toney are finding their way. Not shooting is a habit, just like shooting is. They should be setting up others but looking to set them­selves up as well." 




