Irish Extra -inside 



Scholastic must stop appeals before publication resumes 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
' Scholastic will not be allowed 
~ . 
to publish until it stops appeal­ing the decision to suspend the magazine, Student Activities Director Joseph Cassidy said Tuesday night. 
''When (Scholastic) gets to a point where they can discon­tinue appeals, they can start working with (the Student Ac­tivities Office) to get a compro­mise," Cassidy said. 
''After both sides are clear on the perception (of how Scholastic should operate) , things can go on running again," he said. "It was real clear to me that everyone had a different perception of how Scholastic was operating," said Cassidy. 
Maher Mouasher, editor of the Scholastic, said "We've started a dialogue at the Office of Student Affairs with (Assistant Vice President for Student Services) Father Peter Rocca and (Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs) Sister Jean Lenz. 
"We're at a sensitive point in· the dialogue," Mouasher said. "More detailed commentary would not be in the best interest of Scholastic," he said. 
"We're trying to get the thing resolved. I don't want to hurt the magazine or say anything that would affect the magazine in an adverse way," he said. 
Cassidy said Mouasher met Tuesday with Lenz and Rocca to continue the appeals process. "We're waiting for (Rocca's) decision," he said. Cassidy added that the appeals decision is up to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Attempts to reach Rocca and Lenz were unsuccessful. 
Cassidy said the decision to suspend Scholastic from publication was completely up to himself as director of Stu­dent Activities. 
He said it was "totally my decision to suspend Scholastic from publication, until such time as they can come to clarification of their operating atmosphere." 
''I had to make an interpre­tation of du Lac and it was ap­pealed to Father Rocca. His decision was appealed to (Vice President of Student Affairs) Father Tyson and he upheld the decision,'' said Cassidy. 
"DuLac made it clear I could have removed the editors (of Scholastic), but I felt, 'What would they have learned?' " 
see SCHOLASTIC, page 6 

Scholastic editor meets with HPC 
By BUD LUEPKE Copy Editor 
Scholastic Editor Maher 
Mouasher, seeking support 
from the Hall Presidents' 
Council for the reinstatement 
of recently suspended Scholas­
tic magazine, confronted 
Director of Student Activities 
Joseph Cassidy at the council's 
Tuesday night meeting. 
"All we ask from the HPC," Mouasher said, "is that they support a Scholastic free of censorship such that there can be open discussion." 
However,. the HPC decided not to vote on support for Scholastic until definite proposals regarding its edito­rial status have been worked out be[ween Scholastic's edito-

Saint Mary's professor criticizes SMC's 'lily-white' composition 


By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Answering the question "If you were giving your last lec­ture, what would your final message to the world be?", Dr. David Pilgrim, assistant pro­fessor of sociology at Saint Mary's College, spoke Tuesday at the first of the Last Lecture Series. 
Pilgrim in his lecture studied the question, Why is Saint Mary's College lily-white? He first pointed out that there are "only a handful of black admi­nistrators, faculty members, and students" on campus. 
"There have been, and are, so few blacks here that it makes any statistical analysis impossible," he said. 
He explained, other colleges, some very similar to Saint Mary's, integrated their cam­puses two decades ago. They made the commitment to in­tegrate their schools, and they seriously made the effort, Pilgrim said. 
Pilgrim listed the usual ex­cuses he experiences when he suggests to administrators that the College needs to be integra­ted. One excuse he encounters is that "blacks aren't cat­holics." He said you need not be Catholic to benefit from Saint Mary's. 
"We have many non-Catholic members of the Saint Mary's family, are they uncomfortable with our religious beliefs, so un­comfortable that they want to leave?" he said. 
"Sound Catholic theology embraces the idea that all of humankind is equal in the eyes of God," he said. 
"I have talked to recruiters who admit they make no effort to visit schools with large en­rollments of black Catholics," he said. 
Another excuse Pilgrim has experienced is "blacks are too poor to attend Saint Mary's Col­lege.'' He said there is ''a dis­proportionately large number of blacks who are poor, but there is a growing and sizeable middle class." 
Since Saint Mary's "is com­mitted to giving each student enough financial assistance to cover their costs," and since the College accepts working class whites, "why don't we have any working class blacks?'' Pilgrim also ques­tioned why the College does not 
see SMC, page 6 

rial board and the Office of Stu­dent Activities. 
Colleen Kretz, president of Pasquerilla West, proposed that the HPC "encourage (Student Activities and Scholastic) to work it out them­selves. We should table the issue until we have more spe­cific information." Kretz's mo­tion carried. 
The Office of Student Activi­ties suspended Scholastic last Sunday after Scholastic pub­lished a photograph that Cas­sidy's office had forbidden Jug­gler to print in its fall issue. 
Cassidy said Scholastic was suspended in order to be con­sistent with the decision pre­venting Juggler from publish­ing the artwork. 
HPC Chairperson J oannie Cahill began the discussion by asking for a clarification of Scholastic's editorial status relative to other student publications such as The Observer. 
Cassidy said that his office is "responsible for what happens in the Scholastic," Juggler and Dome. He said The Observer does not "go through" his office but instead receives a separate $12 fee from each student. 
Asked what Cassidy's office could do if the controversial photograph appeared in The Observer, Cassidy said he would not be responsible. 
However, Mouasher said, "Essentially, all publications are run on money that comes 
see HPC, page 6 

Arms shipment approval is 'possible to forget:' Reagan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan suggested Tuesday that "It's possible to forget" whether he authorized a 1985 shipment by Israel of U.S. arms to Iran. 
At a meeting with business executives, Reagan was asked if he was upset about a report that he had been unable to as­certain whether he gave ap­proval for the shipment--the first in a series of clandestine sales of U.S. arms to Tehran, with some proceeds reportedly later diverted to the Nicaraguan Contras. 
"I'd like to ask one question of everybody,'' Reagan said to reporters and to the business group. ''Everybody that can re­member what they were doing on August 8, 1985, raise your hands." 
Surveying the table and fin­ding no arms outstretched, Reagan said quietly, "I think it's possible to forget. Nobody's raised any hands," and chuckled. 
The president waved off fur­ther questions, saying he would not comment further until after the Tower Commission releases its findings Thursday on the Iran-Contra arms-and­money scheme. 
In other developments on Tuesday: 
*Lt. Col. Oliver North, a key figure in the affair, asked a federal court to block the inves­tigation by a special indepen­dent counsel. The lawsuit said special counsel Lawrence Walsh has been granted prosecutorial powers in viola­tion of the Constitution and that 
see ARMS, page 4 


Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 2 
The Observer 


In Brief 

The Notre Dame student charged in connection with the traffic death of junior Michael Cogswell is sched­uled to plea to the misdemeamnor charge on March 17, said Mindy Mcintire of the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. The 21-year-old student is charged with driving while intoxicated, a Class A misdemeanor. He will plead in the Traffic and Misdemeanor Division of the Superior Court, said Mcintire. The charge carries a maximum punishment of one year in prison and a $5,000 fine. -The Observer 
Janel Blount and Jeff Woode have been appointed to head the Student Activities board next year. Blount, this year's publicity commissioner for the SAB, was selected to become SAB Manager by the Student Ac­tivities Steering Committee, a nomination which was ap­proved by the Student Senate in Monday night's meeting. Woode, this year's assistant controller, was appointed by the Steering Committee last Wednesday to become SAB Controller. Both students will assume their offices April 1 of this year, thereby also becoming members of the interim steering committee which conducts interviews for the selection of next year's appointees. 

Of Interest 

The Third Annual NDSMC Charity Ball will hold a meeting from 8-9 p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune. All those interested in working on this year's ball are invited to attend. -The Observer 
American Impressionists Exhibit will be presented at the Smte Museum tonight from 7-9. The opening will feature a lecture, and refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
The American Catholic Studies Seminar will meet again on Thursday at 4:00 p.m. in the Memorial Library Lounge. Professor Margaret Thompson of Syracuse University will speak on the topic: ''To Serve the People of God: Nineteenth-Century Sisters and the Creation of an American Religious Life." -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery will be the location for the installation of a piece by Catherine Ferguson, who was honored as the 1983 Arts Woman of The Year by the Ne­braska Political Caucus. She will be using the 700 square feet of the Isis Gallery to construct an environment for the viewer. There will be an opening reception Thursday open to the public from 2-4 p.m. The show runs through March 13. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of Riley Hall of Art and Design. -The Observer 
Applications for Summer Hall Manager and Assis­tant Manager are now available in the Office of Student Residences. They may be picked up in Room 311 Admin­istration Building. The deadline for return of applications is March 27. -The Observer 
Joseph Brophy, Senior Vice President of The 
Travelers, will speak on a variety of timely information­
science issues today in the Library Lounge from 2-5 p.m. 
The Observer 


Weather 
You're getting warmer. 
A balmy high in the low to mid 40s will continue the thaw of the campus with partly sunny skies today as spring break stands less than three weeks away. In­creasing cloudiness late tonight. Low in the mid to upper 20s. Mostly cloudy and mild Thursday with a 20 percent chance 


of showers towards evening. High in the mid to upper 40s. -Associated Press 


(>e.ign Edit01' .. . . . . .. .. . . . . .. . . Kathy Huston ::'i:>efi{ln A.aliltant ...•. . ... . . . . Andy Fenoglio Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. . . .•. . ••.. . ... Ann Monahan T11pesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Becky Gunderman ........................................ Chris Reardon Newa Editor .................. Chris Bednarski Copy Edit01' ........................ Bud Luepke Sports Copy Edit01' ............. Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Edit01' ........... Bob White Viewpoint Layout .......... Kathleen Moran 

Accent Copy Edit01'... ... . . Mike Naughton Accent Layout .............. Melinda Murphy Typist ................................ Esther Ivory ND Day Editor .................. Susan Coene SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Sports Wednesday Edit01' ..... Pete Gegen Sports Wednuday Design .. Matt Breslin Irish Extra Layout ............. Matt Breslin Photographer................... Suzanne Poch 
The Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Oblener is a member of Tbe Anocialed Prns. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Tabloids: Where else can you learn about the man saved by a UFO? 

I used to consider myself a pretty well­informed person. After all, I watch NBC News and WNDU's News Center 16 every night. I read the Chicago Tribune, the South Bend Tribune and The Observer every day. I even read Scholastic, when I can get a copy of it. 
Then I went to the grocery store last weekend. To my horror, I discovered I wasn't well in­formed at all. 
There in the check-out rack sat the Feb. 24 issues of the Sun and National Examiner. 
I stared in disbelief. Right on the Sun's front page blared the headline "Girl raised by herd of goats-She eats tin cans & old rags." 
That couldn't be true, I thought. But I turned to page 25, and there it was. 
"A mysterious 11-year-old girl, who prefers a diet of tin cans and old greasy rags to normal fare like hot dogs and hamburgers, was thought to be the victim of a rare disease until it was learned she was raised by a herd of goats and picked up her odd eating habits from the vora­cious creatures. 
''A cafeteria worker in Melbourne, Australia, was the first to notice sixth grader Billie McCain's abnormal behavior when she was dis­covered munching discarded items from a dumpster behind her elementary school. 
'' 'I found her stuffing an empty can of corn into her mouth,' says stunned school employee Marcia Andrews. 'I always wondered why she never touched her lunch plate, but I never suspected she was going outside and eating gar­bage.' " 
I stopped reading and began turning through the pages. On page 8 was another shocker, this one carrying the headline, "Fisherman describes how ... UFO aliens pulled me from gator's jaws" 
"A man who thought he was doomed to die a terrible death was miraculously saved at the last possible moment--by extraterrestrial visitors in a UFO who scooped him up. 
"His nightmare began when the airboat he was piloting conked out in the middle of the Florida E;verglades. 'I thought for sure I was going to be an alligator's breakfast,' Herman Potter said afterwards." 
I put the copy of the Sun down and picked up a copy of the National Examiner (not to. be confused with that other bastion of fine jour­nalism, the National Enquirer). 
Inside, not only did I get news, but I got "Top 
Psychics' Amazing 1987'' as well.  Predictions  For  Spring  
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS  Support~ March of Dimes -1111111< Dff!CTS FOVNOo!ITION- 

Mark Pankowski 
News Editor 


Belle Starr, an astrologer and clairvoyant 
living in Mexico, predicts" 'Wheel of Fortune' 
hostess Vanna White will reveal she has been 
taking courses at UCLA in her spare time--and 
has earned a Ph.D. in physics. She will insist 
that emcee Pat Sajak call her Dr. White.'' 
Emily Dumas, parapsychologist-lecturer of 
London and Montreal, forecasts "the new tax 
form debate will continue to rage after it is 
discovered that top IRS officials concocted the 
complicated form as part of an elaborate in­
house joke during a rowdy, well-lubricated of­
fice party.'' 

Dumas also predicts that "it will be revealed 
that President Reagan tried to combat terror­
ists in Lebanon by recruiting sexy lady spies 
to infiltrate their desert training camps. Em­
barrassed officials reveal that the plot back­
fired when the impressionable women agents 
fell in love, became pregnant, and ended up happily married.'' Wow. All of that for just $1.18. But come to think of it, I'm not sure which is 
more amazing: That $1.18 buys all of that. Or that there are people who buy all of that. 



BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Spring Break FLORIDA 
Studios, 1 bdr. (, 2 bdr. apts. Close to beach in Delray Beec:h,FL.A ~ Ft Laude!dale & W. Palm Beach 

CaiiiDday. 305-26~158 ­$40 off with this eel 

---~-----~-------------------------------_.____-""_ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 3 
Security Beat . · 
Sunday 
6:52p.m. -A Flanner Hall res­ident reported three suspicious male white subjects in the D-2 parking lot that had approached him asking for $1,000 in cash. The victim went to his dorm to contact Security. By the time Security and police officers arrived, the subjects had left. The victim did not give any cash to the subjects. 
Monday 
1:29 a.m. -A Pasquerilla West resident reported that her book­bag was stolen from inside Stepan Center while she was watching some friends play basketball. The victim did not observe anyone 
* * * * 

take the bag but noticed there were several non-community type persons in the building at the time the theft would have oc­curred. The loss was filed at $15. 
11:55 a.m. -A Notre Dame cheerleader reported the loss of some jewelry she had placed on the shelf in the ACC while she was teaching other cheerleaders. The loss was estimated at $800. 
12:10 p.m. -A faculty member reported losing his vehicle keys between the Main Gate Circle and the Law School. Officers searched the area to no avail. 
2:15 p.m.-A Carroll Hall stu­dent reported the theft of his 

t
NEW HOURS: 4 .. 12 p.m. ,liON-FRI 
t 
nut I 
I ,...,......,, JMllll.lla :J ~ of Iatu.iq
• .__dl'll,.tcal......tlltiMcy u .... ,_...... r..u ... t 
.1 Dull.lla with Cout.,.,tbe Cr1t1cl• 
' t
I DHll.lla 'vitill MeeT ~al&alliJII Jaal_,-...., to 'Ileal llitll ll
' -,.Say ... t
10 16 lec•l.lla OpeD to OtMn 11 Datl.lla Atlla 
20 r-1• --......utr t 
ll llale ID•a-Uty )0 Aaletr ....a -U•I.-..,. to C:.,. llttb Jt 
t
l2

, 
-to hal wlttl '-'"'"' 
..., to lo..la har'a
,. t
I~~en..1.. S.lf-AoMHMaa 35 hUdtq s.lf-18t-... c-rtanr• J1 ..lasatlon ~1•••
,. t
Coplaa •itt. Straaa
r-t• s.a 1o1e--a.u.a• ... s,....... 
40 llal• s... lol~ ... sn·•..••
" 

.. Leaplaa to Aoe..t T..oualf t 
2 t
JO u... i ~4 Dl.nl.ra 
51 • 

lJakt ......... 
u 

lWa ....... 

...., ••. n..u, -.. to u.. It t
lafatuaUOD or ._,, -to ~ wltb a -.. lolatl_..,,,
Deetll ... DJtae ' 
t 
U...rai-iJII Crlef ..lpi.Joa • ........ 18.-lr ll... of a a!-1 ,.....la 
f 
..._ ..1• Declel-,.,., Drlul-. lelf ......,,...... 
~l•• of c..t,ut ••n•t-. I
....,.. ~·81­
.... to Deal wltlo ~••1• a..reooloa .. a Llf,.trl• 
-lac I_,...., fra. Paraaia 
DMIU.. lfitlo Al-Uc ru...u S.te1Aa1 Crlato llecephl"' Svlg..l ,.t..tlalo 111 Oth!n ' 
.,lpiJoc '--l• a S..ld..l Crhlo• 
t 
' 


~**** * * * 
backpack from the lobby of the South Dining Hall while he was eating lunch. The victim esti­
mated his loss at $55. 

2:20p.m.-AUniversity Village resident reported her vehicle was damaged while it was parked out­side her apartment. The damage was estimated at $300, and there are no suspects at this time. 
3:50 p.m. -One of the Con­Celebrants of the Saturday night Mass which has held in the ACC during Junior Parents' Weekend, reported that his wallet was mis­sing from a room in the building. The loss was estimated at $35. 
* ~ DISTINGUISHED STUDENT 
* 


~ AWARD 
* 

:* Once again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nomina­
* 
tions from February 10 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished ~ Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor

* 
an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following ~ criteria: ~ 1. Service to Notre Dame 


*

* 2. Service to the Community *
! 3. Good Academic standing*
*Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association office on the 2nd : floor of the Administration Building, University Ministry offices -Badin :Hall and Memorial Library and the Center for Social Concerns. 
* 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 

AFTH 
SON 
by Nicholas A. Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, february 25, 8:10pm Thursday, february 26, 8:10pm friday, february 27, 8:10 pm Saturday, february 28, 8:10pm Sunday, March I. 3:10 pm 
WASHINGTON HALL $3 General Admission $2 Students, Senior Citizens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday 
Washington Hall Ticket ornce I 2 noon-6 pm weekdays Master Can:Wlsa orders: 239-5957 
* * * * ******: 
! Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 28. ! 
***************************************************•** 
Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball  
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir & Chorale and the Student Activities Board present a MARDI GRAS BALL with Johnny Knorr and his 13 piece Orchestra Date: Friday, February 27 Dress: Formal or Masquerade Time: 7 pm to 10 pm -Masks for everyone Where: Theodore's -Helium balloons Tickets: $3 Students, $5 Adults -Beverages & Snacks -Door prizes Tickets go on sale 2116 -212.7 at the department of (Y\usic in Riley Hall anet the Student Activities Board on 2nd floor In LaFortune. *Aiso--2t23(Mon.)-2;26(Thurs.) there will be ballroom dancing lessons at Theodore's from 4 pm 5 pm. .......-----------------·-··---------------' Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball  

* 
: 

* 
~ 

*
*~ 
* 
:

* 
: : 

*
* 

!* ** 
~ ~ 
* 


t 


tf COUNSELINE ' t 
All you do Is dial 239-7793 and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear. 
t
f Below is the list of tapes offered. COONSELINE ' I is a confidential telephone service that offers t f professionally taped materials covering a variety tf ofstudent concerns. 
t 
t t t 
•
•
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
' 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t' 

t COUNSEIJNE Is1a completely anonymous t service offered by the counseling and psychol­
t 

ogiet\1 services center, University of Notre Dame.
I t
For further Information or assistance, call ' t 239-7336 t 
--~--------------­

The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 4 



Programming Board hears from T heodores' employees 
By KAREN WEBB Copy Editor 
Assistant managers of Theodore's spoke to the Saint Mary's Programming Board Tuesday night about the club's operation and attraction to stu­dents. 
Plans for An Tostal Week were also discussed. 
Assistant Manager Laurie Bink told the board, "We have lines every weekend all the way down the stairs." 
"A lot of Saint Mary's stu­dents show up," said Assistant Manager Tom Utter. 
"We found that a big draw is free food," Bink added. 
''Mostly freshman and sop­homores go, especially fresh­men because they need a place to go," said Utter. "But I have programmed things for upper classmen.'' 
Bink said, "We used to get a lot of upperclassmen between two and three (a.m.), after the bars closed." 
But after damage to the club on a weekend night, Student Activities began closing the club at 2 a.m, Utter said. 
Bink explained that although the club is under the direction of Student Activities, it is not financially supported by the Student Activity fee payed by students. 
She said the name Theodore's was circulated around campus for advertising two years before the club opened. 

''We got the name Theodore's--we were just joking around really--because this is (University President) Father Ted's (Hesburgh) last year. No one took it seriously at first, but it caught on. He thought it was pretty funny," Bink said. 
Upcoming events at Theodore's include a Mardi Gras Ball on Feb. 27 and the "Nazz competition" on March 7, according to Utter. 

In other business, Lisa Lawler, commissioner for traditional events, previewed events planned for An Tostal. She said there are plans for the annual picnic, a "Dating Game," a "Mr. Campus" con­test, a "Timbuk 3" concert, and a canoe race on Lake Marion. 
Arms 
continuedfrom page 1 
he and his staff are interfering unlawfully with the conduct of foreign policy in their investi­gation. 
* 
Lawmakers said special congressional panels inves­tigating the affair may vote as early as Thursday to grant im­munity from prosecution to several individuals believed able to shed light on what hap­pened.

* 
Fawn Hall, North's former secretary, who has been re­ported as telling Walsh's inves­tigators that she destroyed doc­uments, showed up for a brief photo session for news photog­raphers at her lawyer's office, smilingly posing but refusing to comment on the case. 

* 
Former President Gerald Ford, referring to the scandal that brought down President Richard Nixon and made Ford president, said at a Fort Wayne, Ind., appearance that "this crisis is not comparable to Watergate (and) I hope and trust it doesn't reach the stage Watergate did." 

* 
Former Reagan aide Robert McFarlane checked out of Bethesda Naval Hospital, a little over two weeks after being rushed there after a drug overdose that police called a suicide attempt. McFarlane's lawyer, Leonard Garment, said he would "go back to work and resume a normal life as much as the various investiga­tions will allow.'' 


McFarlane, who was Reagan's national security ad­viser from 1983 through December 1985, has testified that the president approved the 1985 arms shipment to Iran. 
For three months, the com­mission headed by former Sen. John Tower has been seeking to learn, among other things, the precise nature of Reagan's role in the initial stages of the program of secret arms sales. 
Reagan was questioned Tuesday in light of a published report in The New York Times. That report said Reagan's in­ability to state with certainty his role in the 1985 Israeli ship­ment of U.S. arms has compl­icated things for commission 
members  trying  to  sort  out  
conflicting accounts.  
It  was  confirmed  indepen­ 

dently that Reagan feels he is unable to say for sure whether he authorized the Aug. 30, 1985 shipment. 
Elsewhere in Washington, House Speaker Jim Wright, D­Texas, asked to comment on the Times report of Reagan's uncertainty, said, "Well, that's an appalling thing." 
Asked if he believed it possi­ble someone could have forgot­ten such a decision, he said, "I find it believable that someone might have forgotten, and if the president has a lot on his mind, maybe he did forget." 


ln•no•va•tor (L.,'e-va'ter) 11. 1. One who begins or introduces something new; one who is creative. 
2. THE TRA~IELERS COMPANIES. 
We will be on campus Friday, February 27. 
AND YOU CAN TOO. 
Ideas spark innovation. Imagination fuels 
it. Achievement realizes it. 
At The Travelers, we challenge your po­
tential so you can strive for innovation. 
So let your ideas help shape our future. 
And yours. 

Write to: Rubin Fisher, Assistant Director, College and Professional Recruiting, Depart­ment 316, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct 06183 


TheTravelerit' 
The Travelers Corporatiol") Hartford, Connecticut 06183 
.---­
The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 5 

Professor says racism not to blame for problems plaguing minorities 
By JOHN KELLY News Staff 
Walter E. Williams, profes­sor of economics at George Mason University, spoke to a near capacity crowd in the Cus­hing Auditorium Tuesday af­ternoon highlighting economic problems in minority commun­ities in a lecture titled "Does racism explain everything?" 
"There is a conflict of visions on how the world operates," said Williams. "I recognize that discrimination exists." 
He said discrimination com­monly does not lead to adverse effects on the achievements of those discriminated against. He cited the historical exam­ples of the Japanese and Jews, 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban Setting just 10 minutes from campus. 
You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at 


In addition we offer you a special discount. 

ew apartments being uilt through Spring '87 

~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
~ 

asher & Dryer in 

~ 
Intercom entrances 
~ 
Reasonably priced /heat 
~ 
Earthtone Interiors 
~ 
Country Kitchens 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
who have survived intense rac­ism to become some of the most prosperous groups in the United States. 
"The issue is not to justify or minimize discrimination. The point is that if discrimination does not explain everything, then instead of putting your re­sources into fighting discrimi­nation maybe there is a greater payoff in focusing your re­sources in other directions," said Williams. 
Williams spoke "in a chal­lenge to the conventional wis­dom." He characterized the civil rights vision as resting on two assumptions, that "Statistical disparities mea­sure discrimination, and statistical differences would not arise and persist without discrimination.'' 
"There are some other dif­ferences that explain . income differences among different groups that have nothing to do with discrimination,"said Wil-Iiams. 
He said the statistical dis­
parity in median incomes be­
tween blacks and whites is 
primarily due to the difference 
in median age of the two 
groups. 

"If you keep the age group under 40 and control income relevant variables then make the comparison, then you have 8 percent unexplained varia­tion. I doubt whether that 8 per­cent can be called racism," Williams said. 
He added, "One of the most 
devastating things to the eco­
nomic welfare of the black 
community is crime. A lot of 
people say it is caused by dis­
crimination; that is why there 
is so much disorder. Black 
people were more secure in 

their neighborhoods in times when there was much more dis­crimination in the United States." 
Pietrzak ticket prevails in SMC junior class run-off 
By MARGIE KERSTEN Saint Mary's Editor 
The ticke~, of Rose Pietrzak, Anne Palamaro, Barb Gullifor and Katy Burns won Tuesday's second run-off election for Saint Mary's junior class presi­dent, vice president, trea­surer and secretary, respec­tively. 
The Pietrzak ticket won 53 percent of the votes, while the opposing ticket of Christy Wolfe, Michelle Agostino, Tera Sternitzke and Lisa LaMalfa captured 46 percent of the vote. 
Speaking for her ticket, Pietrzak said, "We would like to thank our class for their continued support. Our goal is to get everyone in­volved next year and we think their eagerness throughout the election shows a great deal of prom­ise." 
According to Elections Commissioner Sandy Cerimele, 51 percent of the sophomore class turned out to vote as compared to 54 percent voting in the first election and 59 percent voting in the second election. 

"The reason that it is such a high voter turnout in spite of the two run-off elections is because of the campaigns themselves, each ticket had great ideas and also because of Jeanne Heller. Jeanne's organization has increased student awareness and par­ticipation tremendously,'' Cerimele said. 
Agostino, the opposing ticket's candidate for vice president commented on the election. "I thought it was a very well planned and fair election." Both tickets put forth an effort, she said add­ing, "We were just excited with a winner--no matter who. 



This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
s the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. . 
lliGOGREYHOUND 
~Aidleavethe driving tous: 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No Olber discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 2!lMl through 4/30/87. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. () 1987 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 6 
know what's going in, how can . guess how long ScholasticHPC we be responsible? The Uni­would be suspended but said, versity wants to make sure its "We're as anxious to get it
continuedfrom page 1 

publication is acting in a man­cleared up as much as from the students. The differ­ner appropriate for this Uni­Scholastic.'' ence (between The Observer versity," he said. and Scholastic) is not a sig­Mouasher, however, in­In other business, the HPC nificant one. We are respon­sisted there be no prior cen­announced that it will dis­sible to the students." sorship. "We cannot function tribute a letter to students 
But Cassidy maintained as a truly student publication concerning student drinking,that the University was the if there is to be prior censor­the Buzz Bus and the desig­publisher of the magazine and ship. We want to be respon­nated driver program. should therefore know what sible for what we print." He Chairperson of the CharityScholastic will print. "My of­added, "Our first responsibil­Ball Lisa Jochum asked each fice has been charged with the ity is toward our editorial in­dorm to donate $100. She said responsibility of Scholastic, tegrity.'' the dance will feature the Juggler and Dome. If we don't Cassidy said he could not band, "The Law." 
*The Board of Regents and newspapers which have a size­SMC the president must publicly able black readership. *~ 4609 Grape RD. :* state that they are in support *Black administrators * JMS Plaza * 
continuedfrom page 1 
of racially integrating this should be hired. accept any middle-class and school. *The College should have * *
* * 
upper-class blacks. race relations seminars to sen­Pilgrim said another admin­*Black recruiters should be sitize its members to the prob­* * ** 
istrative excuse is that "since hired, or whites who are com­lems associated with integra­t Special Thursday ~ we don't have blacks already, mitted to racial integration. tion. newly enrolled blacks will be *Standards must not be *Saint Mary's should write 
t Draft Beer 25¢ ~ 
unhappy." lowered, but values and other colleges, similar to it in The College must admit at recruitment strategies must be mission arid size, and request 
~ Mixed Drinks 75e !
least 25 black students each altered. copies of their desegregation year, he said. "There will still plans and proposals. 
* * 
be adjustment problems, but *The administration should *The College should invite 
~ Large Screen T.V. !
all social change has built-in hire more black faculty, adver­more black speakers to the tise in journals, magazines and campus.
problems that must, and can *********************************** 
be solved." Another problem Pilgrim ~xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx faces from those who are op­posed to integration is "but why would a black student 




~ X . !49{ lJ'OSlJ'.9LL ~ X 
come here?" Pilgrim said 
X X


"Why does any student come here? Hopefully. and prayful­
ly, to receive a quality educa­~ LO(jO CO:J{PESlJ' ~ 
We cater to weddings
tion in a climate undergirded 
X X
by strong moral commit­
and rehearsal dinners.
~ Designs needed for T-shirt ~ 
ments." Black students deserve a ~ and booklet cover. ~ 
Within walking distance to the
quality education as well, ac­
~ A $25 prize goes to the ~ 
cording to Pilgrim, "and no so­
University of Notre Dame. 
~ chosen design! ~
cial scientific evidence exists which would claim that whites are more moral than blacks." ~ Submit designs to the An Tostal office -~ 
Pilgrim criticized Saint ~ at the Student Activities Board, x 
1404 North Ivy Road For r-eservations call: 
Mary's administrators who, in South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682
~ 2nd floor LaFortune, by March 6, 1_987 ~ 

an attempt to contain a homogeneous society at the College, he said, say "they can not handle the academics." 
"I have some smart stu­dents, and I have some stu­dents who are not committed to scholarship. The same would be true of any blacks we ad­mitted," he said. 
He also discussed the admin­istrative contention that "our students will mistreat them." Pilgrim admitted there are stu­dents with prejudices, but ''most young people are malle­able; they can be taught to be prejudiced or open-minded." 
Pilgrim said our students are denied one of the greatest joys of college in interacting with people from diverse back­grounds. "The world does not look like a Saint Mary's class­room, therefore we are cheat­ing our students.'' 
He also said administrators claim that, "blacks nationwide are not attending college as much" and "there aren't any black faculty to serve as role models." 
In answer to the first prob­lem, Pilgrim admitted there was a downward trend in black student enrollment, but "there are still thousands of blacks who would consider coming to Saint Mary's, if our house was in order.'' 
Regarding the lack of black faculty, Pilgrim admitted this is true, but it is not the black student's fault. He said there should be at least three black _faculty members. "The admin­istration must commit itself to hiring black faculty." 
Pilgrim listed proposals he said the administration needs to implement in order to in­tegrate Saint Mary's. 
XX)i~ 



ATTENTION: SENIORS!. 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT The US Railroad Retirement Board is recruiting for the position of claims examiner trainee. Bachelor's Degree (in any major) is required. For additional information, a rep.. resentative from the Board will be making informal presentations. 
Date: Friday, Feb.27, 1987 Time: 10:10, 12:15, 1:15 and 2:20 
Place: Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall, SMC 
"Scholastic did feel that they 
had the right to print the pic­


Scholastl•C 
ture. The University looked at 
continuedfrom page 1 it and felt they didn't. The two Cassidy said. groups have to get together and 
· He added that the Student Ac-look at this," he said. "They tivities Office acts as publisher are not allowed to publish any of both Scholastic and the Jug-form of publication. gler. "Like any publisher, we "(Scholastic) gets to deter­want to be informed of what is mine how far they want to going to be in it. When the pic-carry it out. As long as they're ture came out, we had no idea held up in appeals, the longer it was going to come out,'' Cas-they're not going to be able to sidy said. publish," Cassidy said. 
*********************************** 
~ Uncle's Irish Pub : 
* * 
r-NDAVE~1 ~ Early Bird Special t 
~ NowB rdenting for Faii ~ 1
~ 2 e rooms comp ete 1y ~ § furnished ~ §§ Sign up before break and ~~ receive n 10o/o discount ~ Call 234-6647 § 
~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ i~~-.Q"><Q>~~!~J..r.b'-~~-~.,0.·~~ 
Spring Break Special 




'MN-ttAVJ6. 
s..;n tmnrg sotn· Booth 
JMS PLAZA $2.50 each visit -4609 GRAPE RD. 
6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, IN 
Bed Combo $5.00 each visit 3 Bed I 3 Booth 6 visits for $27.00 $19.95 
277-7026 


·--------­


"ieVVJ!_CJ__iJl__t________________
wed-nesd-ay,F-ebr-uary-25,_1987--pa-ge7 
Program could establish independence for poor 
-----~­
-----~ 
Since Marilyn Benchik stated that the poor are as independent as we are in her Inside column (Feb. 4), a plethora of both verbal and written emotional generalizations, ranging from the poor "should touch our hearts" to "the poor are (not) lazy," have been reverberat­ing around many parts of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Because of my ob­servations of and experiences with "the less fortunate" on my Urban Plunge in Chicago, I can honestly say that all the statements I have heard about the poor and how society mistreats them are true. Unlike many of the people making these statements, though, I do not believe that only broad statements will help the poor. Instead, I believe that once these statements are coupled with concrete, irrefutable examples and so­lutions, society will realize that many of its members are trapped in destitu­tion and are in desperate need of some proper assistance. 
Bob White 
worlds apart 

During my Plunge, I was lucky enough to see "Crisis on Federal Street," a documentary about life in the poorest (median, non-welfare in­come is $5182) and the largest (28 build­ings) housing project in the country, 
Chicago's Robert Taylor Homes. The 
program, in order to more specifically 
illustrate its message, revolves around 

th~ 28 members (a mother, 11 children 
over 18 years old, and 16 
grandchildren) of the Nash family who 
live in one five bedroom apartment and 
for whom public aid has become the 
way of life for three generations. 
Even though it analyzes at least five 
different aspects of the family's im­
prisonment in poverty, unemployment 
seems to directly affect and therefore 
unite all of the categories. Like many 
other topics dealing with poverty, 
though, this problem involves more 
than one reason for its existence and 
more than one result. 
Some reasons for the Homes high un­employment rate are: 1. Only two out of every five entering freshmen in the neighborhood schools will recieve a di­ploma. 2. Only one in 20 can read at or above the national level. 3. Many have never left their immediate area so that they do not realize that they are part of a much bigger world and that they can have an affect on it if they only became involved. 
Some consequences of the high un­employment rate are: 1. Each "per­manently" unemployed person receives one-fourth of a millon dollars in aid over a lifetime. The Nash family alone receives $78,564 a year from the federal and state goverments' food stamp, general assistance, and other welfare programs. 2. Their abilities to visualize, dream, and set goals are lim­ited because they lack the proper role models and responsibilities. 3. They do not have anything to do to occupy with so many times they resort to crime be­cause it is perceived as being very glamorous and as an easy way to obtain some quick cash. 

In order to raise the poor's self­esteem and to help them learn a skill in order to become independent of the government, Senator Paul Simon (D­Ill), who is chairman of the Senate's Employment and Productivity Com­mittee, will be proposing within the next three weeks his Guaranteed Job Opportunity Program. This program insures a government-created job for those who have been out of work for five or more weeks and sets salaries at either minumum wage for 32 hours a week, 10 percent above welfare or 10 percent above unemployment compen­sation, depending upon which of the three is highest. 
Unlike programs similar to GJOP which have failed in the past, according to Senator Simon's Public Relations Director David Carl, Simon feels that his will succeed because GJOP will take much of the control out of bureaucratic hands and place it in the hands of local committees. This way applicants will be screened and assigned a job at their 
skill level so that they are always being 
trained for a job in the private sector. 
Also, there will be greater regulation 
of the jobs in order to make sure that 
each employee is looking for employ­
ment in the private sector while filling 
a goverment-subsidized job. 

Carl says that Sen. Simon hopes 
GJOP will pass this year because "wel­
fare reform is moving from the back 
burner to the front burner.'' In order 
to help guarantee the passage of this 
bill and to demonstrate that we, the stu­
dents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, 
truly care about the oppressed, I sug­
gest that we write either our respective 
Senators or to Senator Simon himself 
so that the members of Congress know 
that their constituents want the system 
reformed. Simon's address is 462 
Dirksen Senate Office Building Wash­
ington, D.C. 20510. 

Only three to four percent of the poor 
can ever break the cycle of destitution. 
These people are the lucky ones be­
cause they are allowed to fully experi­
ence the independence that we so often 
take for granted. Let's help raise that 
percentage by actively supporting what 
I think is the beginning of a feasible 
solution to poverty. My letter is now in 
the mail. Is yours? 

Bob White is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies and is a regular View­point columnist. 

Future telegram serves as warning to leaders 
Yesterday, I received a telegram. It was sent by Prescilla Hall. Prescilla and I dated some last year when I was a senior at Notre Dame. The telegram said: Tragedy struck Notre Dame last week. Stud Sneate committed suicide. I know not why. I shall write again soon. All my love, Prescilla. 
Bruce Lohman 
guest column 
So here I sit wondering why did Stud 

kill himself? I can't answer this ques­
tion, either. But, I chose to write for 
another reason. To share with you what 
I have learned from Stud. 
Stud and I never got along. We had 

different views on almost everything. 
But, more fundamentally, I think that 
we had different approaches to life. I 
always try to approach every day with 
positive thoughts. I try to ask positive 
questions. When difficulties arise, I al­
ways try to look forward rather than 
backward. How can I over come this 
problem? How can I improve this sit­
uation? 
Stud, in contrast, was always pes­simistic. Antagonism was his trusty game plan. Dozens of negative ques­tions. 
Stud feigned to be a student leader. 

So did I in my day. This game served 
me well. I learned much. I enjoyed 
thinking of myself as a student leader. 
But it was only a game. One never 
knows if that is truly the case or not. 
Doo .. 
_..,,.., 
In the end, that question is one of the 
least important. 
Stud, however, knew for sure that he was a campus leader. The campus leader, in fact. No decision or challenge was outside his realm of power. He spoke with plenty of whereas's and whereif's. His opimons were resolu­tions. He was actually quite funny at first. Soon, he became simply a nuisance. 
Seldom did Stud ever come up with an idea of his own. Rather, he read The Observer and picked issues from the headlines. Always negative. Never trusting. Stud pursued his adopted pas­sions with. the tenacity of a wounded predator. I once suggested to Stud that he could get more accomplished by be­coming a Doukhobour. He actually con­sidered it. A distorted sense of impor­tance squashed whatever misgivings he might have had about parading around in his unbashed nakedness. That would have been the ultimate sacrifice for a student leader. 
To enjoy only oneself, I believe, is impossible. Stud came as close to living this impossiblity as anyone whom I have ever met. Yet, in the end, it was he who Stud disliked the most. Unable to come to grips with the despair and frustration which accompanies the recognition of stringent limitations. In fact, Stud talked himself directly into a state of virtual impotence. 
I never felt that Stud provided any good answers to the questions of stu­dent leadership. Sadly, to the most im­portant question, Stud had his worst an-
IAIHY PICK THE. UNREIATE!J 

''A PRIJG5TOR& 
, " 
WOI?P ''Cb.JPtr 70 REFeR 
UM... IA/EU.., !'[)
/A/HAT

tATt 1..457"YeAR... 
CANI[)()
70 TH/3 fJNMeNTIONA&e 
UK& ... UH ... 
PfliXJUCTtueMe SEUING~ 
THAT 1~... /.R...
FOR YOU

{}H... EXCfJSE
BtAR U/17HMe fO/?. A TAlC 
50Nr 
I'O... l'P...
Mer
/ A80UTMY 
I 
\ 
--·-7EeN-Ar£
Kf{) ... 

swer. I wonder if Stud felt his act, in the tradition of the great Kamikaze pilots, would serve to improve his com­munity. 
Tragically, it is this conclusion which I want to endorse. Of course, no one is happy when we lose one of the Notre Dame family. Yet, Stud is gone now. We should learn from him as much as we can. 
I never much wanted to be like Stud. We had different approaches. It is precisely those limitations with which Stud was unable to come to terms, whose existence a student leader needs to recognize immediately. By doing so, and by bringing a positive, active atti­tude to the job, a student leader can be a true value to his community. Other­wise, as with Stud's case, you simply live a fantasy, a myth of importance which has no basis in fact. Stud lived in this fantasy world more than anyone. This game of student leadership never suited Stud well. In the end, this game cost Stud his sanity and his life. I am truly sorry to hear of his death. 
Bruce Lohman is the coordinator ofstu­dent reports to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 

Garry Trudeau 
TJ1EN YOU
I'O LIKC 
8£7713/l. 57AKT 
A~ 
5AV/NGNOW.
CONIXJ. 
\ 
\ 
Quote of the day 

"Happiness is a butterfly which, when pursued, is always beyond your grasp, but which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you." 
Nathaniel Hawthorne 
(1804-1864) 

VieWP-Oint 
Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 8 


Breaking the 'nuclear spell' requires ~ voice 

Last week Americans were provided a unique glimpse of a Soviet vision of nuclear war. Aired by the Turner Broadcasting Network, "Letters from a Dead Man" was originally produced and publically released in the Soviet Union. As a Soviet counterpart to "The Day Mter,'' it chronicled the destruc­tion of the Soviet society in the after­math of a nuclear holocaust. In addi­tion, it transcended the normal confines of docudrama and accomplished an aesthetic beauty and existential sensi­tivity reminiscent of Hiroshima Mon Amor and other films. 
Mike Keen 
guest column 

Perhaps most surprising to those Americans who viewed it was the lack of anti-American propaganda we all just naturally assumed would perme­ate the film. The holocaust breaks out as a result of a Soviet computer error. In retrospect, the anti-Russian tone of our own ''Amerika'' is disconcerting by comparison. 
One of the most powerful images portrayed in the film is that of a dream recounted by the author of the ''Let­ter,'' an elderly scientist who was seven seconds too late but still continues to cling to an undying hope in the survival of the human race. In the dream, he sees himself inextricably bound' to a railroad track. Bearing down upon him with ever greater presence and velocity is a huge locomotive. His last fleeting glimpse before a startled awakening is of himself, hands on the throttle, sitting in the engineer's seat. He interprets the image as humanity's complicity in its own destruction, making specific ref­erence to Soviet society and even its politicians. 
This unexpected openness and force­fulness of vision, though directed at So­viet society, also speaks to us. For we too are members of this global humanity. Following the film, Univer­sity President Father Theodore Res­burgh moderated an exchange between Soviet and U.S. experts on nuclear war. He suggested this and other such meetings were directed to "breaking the spell" which draws us ever further to the brink of such a "ghoulish destruc­tion.'' 
For a number of years now, Res­burgh has been a leading and coura­geous spokesperson, raising the issues of nuclear holocaust and venturing beyond the nationalistic boundaries which usually determine the discourse. It would seem appropriate that the 


Protection from AIDS requires advertising 
Condoms, there, I said it. OK, now that you've stifled a giggle or gasp and checked to make sure the person next to you doesn't notice you reading this, we can begin. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long

I. 
~ It seems that this funny little word has been in the news an awful lot lately. Many highly respected doctors are call­ing for television advertisements to tell people that the use of condoms can prevent the spread of AIDS. They believe the use of condoms to be an effective way to stop AIDS. Since abstinence is not likely to become the next sexual fad, condoms seem to be the next best line of defense against AIDS. For some people, however, con­dom ads are a problem. Just the mention of this funny little word sends moralistic people running for cover. They cover their ears and say, "I will not listen to such talk! " The mention of one funny little word (not f::ven a profane one) sends them off the deep end. Well for these people, I would like to mention another little word, except it isn't so funny: DEATH. AIDS kills, it's as simple as that. It has reached near epidemic proportions in this country. For those of you who still believe AIDS affects only homosexuals, wake up! It kills homo­and heterosexuals with equal fervor. AIDS is not a homosexually transmit­ted disease, but a sexually transmitted disease, like syphilis. Unlike syphilis, however, AIDS cannot be cured by a quick jab of penicillin. AIDS is fatal. Many people are frantically searching 
for a cure. Until they find one, preven­tion is our main line of defense against the plague of the 80s. 
Many groups believe abstinence is a method of prevention, and it is. However, for some whose moral stand­ards · are not as high as others, abstinence is not the answer. I do not wish to comment on today's morality, but, for some, abstinence is worse than death. Many would risk all for sex, and many do. It has been this way through­out time. Although these people may be immoral, can we abandon them to the ravages of AIDS? While abstinence is always a solution for some, condoms provide a viable alternative for others. 
Despite the moral opposition to con­doms, they are legal and safe to use. The question is, should they be ad­vertised on television? Will they offend viewers? Probably, but so does the average soap opera. 
The movement to advertise condoms is not based on money, rather on saving lives. That is the bottom line. Other products banned from television, such as alcohol and tobacco, are so because they are dangerous to our health. The use of condoms, on the other hand, can save lives, so why should people be kept in the dark? While it is true everyone 
knows  where  to  buy  condoms,  not  
everyone  knows  condoms  can  save  
lives.  

If the focus of condom advertising is to save lives, what is wrong with it? Although condom ads may offend some and be a sign of an ever-permissive so­ciety to others, informing people that condoms can protect you from AIDS must be done. 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore English major and a regular Viewpoint colum­
. Notre Dame community follows this 
prophetic discourse with some concrete 
action of its own. 
There are a few possibilities that 
come to mind immediately. First, we 
should stop all nuclear weapons re­
search, including SDI, carried out in 
our labs and discontinue seeking 
federal funds designed to contribute to 
such projects. These are the coals that 
stoke the fires of nuclear holocaust with 
ever more destructive and less controll­
able weapons and strategies. This is no 
easy sacrifice, for the University often 
receives 50-60 percent off the top of 
federal research grants. Our participa­
tion in the spell has been well­
rewarded. 
Second, we should begin an open ex­
amination of our endowment investi­
tures. President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
recognized that "Every gun that is 
made, every warship launched, every 
rocket fired signifies in the final sense, 
a theft from those who hunger and are 
not fed, those who are cold and are not 
clothed.'' He identified the major in­
strument of this theft as the "Iron Tri­
angle" or the U.S. military-industrial 
complex. It is this corporate political 
web that ensnares us in the spell. Its 
fires are fed by capital investments in 
such companies as General Electric, 
General Dynamics, Boeing, Lockheed, Honeywell, Texas Instuments and their many hidden subsidiaries. Again, this is not an easy task for investments in the spell, which bind and blinds humanity, have been profitable. 
Finally, we should refuse to continue to train and encouarage our students to tend the fires of destruction through our ROTC programs and monumental glorification of the military. Herein lies perhaps the greatest price to be paid in breaking the spell for it would put us in prophetic opposition to the domi­nant currents of our society. The Chris­tian tradition is very familiar with the cross such "foolish prophets" must bear. 
Nonethless, no moment could be more timely for us to embark on such a course. For, unfortunately, in our so­ciety courageous talk unfulfilled by similarly courageous action is labeled as rhetoric or charged with hypocrisy. We can help legitimize Hesburgh in his prophetic stance and strengthen his voice by choosing now, for humanity, to take the first steps in breaking the spell. 
Dr. Mike Keen is a 1985 PH.D graduate of the Notre Dame and is Program Co­ordinator for the Center for Social Con­cerns. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Publication suspension restricts student work 
Dear Editor: 
Sunday's suspension of Scholastic is another example of our University's continued heavy-handed, inconsistent, and paternalistic approach to adminis­tration and education, education not for responsible and informed thinking, but for reliance and obedience. 
The primary issue is not the quality or imagined obsenity of Antonakna's art. At issue is the Scholastic's exis­tence as a "student publication" and a legitimate source of campus jour­nalism vs. Scholastic as the extension of our administration's paternalistic wing of protection. If Scholastic is the wing of the administration, then the Student Activities Office should end the farce of a "student publication" and give Cassidy and Father Tyson the ed­itorial credit they deserve. If, on the other hand, "student publication" is more than an empty promise to the stu­dent body, then Student Activities should have faith and trust in the judg­ment of the editors they appoint. 
Secondly, the suspension reflects an inconsistency in administration policy, and in particular the role of du Lac in student life. Despite Cassidy's evasive word-game, the action of the Student Activities Office is obviously one of cen­sorship which du Lac clearly forbids for student publications. If we as stu­dents are to place any credibility in du Lac as a whole, how are we to under­stand our administration's selective ap­peal to its law in support of their policies and beliefs. 
Finally, the use of the power-play of suspension is another example of the University's use of intimidation as an approach to problem solving. If there is a lesson that a University founded on Christian and democratic ideals should not be implicitly teaching its students, it is the use of power and supression, instead of dialogue, to solve problems. 
I am thankful that the Scholastic had the journalistic courage that the Jug­gler lacked, and I hope their suspen­sion will open our eyes to see the ab­surdity of a censured "student publication," and the paternalism and 

inconsistency of  our University's ad­ 
ministration.  
John Mojzisek  
Grace Hall  


Viewpoint would like-occassionally to highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly con­troversial, please send the quote to View­point. 
Ibe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1988 




Accent 
Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 9 

secon 

a nee 
At Dismas House, Notre Dame students help 'reclaim lost lives' 

CATHY STACY such dehumanizing conditions. The interest they show for Their self-confidence is rein­these former prisoners is an­
R
features writer forced by the presence of other form of motivation pro­easons for moving off young, positive role models. vided by Dismas which enables campus are usually per­Dismas originated in Nash­the residents to trust others sonal -a need for more inde­ville where carol Gales, a Notre while also providing members pendence, privacy, or excite­Dame student worked on a of the community with a ment, but students living at Summer Service Project with chance to get to know and un­Dismas House In South Bend the students of Vanderbilt Uni­derstand them. are motivated by their concern versity. Her reflection paper "The rate of recidivism (of for others, specifically, former caught the attention of Father Dismas residents) has drasti­prisoners. Don McNeil, Director of the cally decreased," says Roemer, Notre Dame students have Center for Social Concerns, and It Is due most of all to the been involved in this coopera­who then approached Father dedication of the students. "We tive effort since September, Theodore Hesburgh, University look for men and women who continuing a student project president with the Idea of are anxious to give of them­based on I 0-year Tennessee creating a home in South Bend selves for the purpose of hel­experience, the site of three which would be run by Notre ping others. "They may be un­Dism4~ homes. Dame students In the same dergraduates, graduates or law For the men and women who manner. students who want to partici­have recently completed their The house, located at 521 S. pate In a Christian, fun and prison sentences, the support St. Joseph Street now houses healthy way to live," says and encouragement provided eight students and two former Roemer. Though each student by the students enables them prisoners, all of whom pay may be drawn towards Dismas to cope with the problems they room and board of $5.3 per for different reasons, they will may encounter while being week. Students commit them­all be "inevitably marked in reconciled with society. The selves for a one year period, ways that wlll influence their benefits, however, also extend but their roomates normally choices and values for the rest to the society and the students stay there for three or four of their lives." themselves, whose determina­months -as long as it takes for The backgrounds of the stu­tion has been the secret of the them to become readjusted dents and the prisoners could project's success. and get their feet on the not be more diverse, and many Imagining oneselfjust out of ground. may never have been exposed prison, "with no family, no The close proximity of to the poverty that pervades friends, maybe $100...trying Westville and Michigan City the lives of the latter. Despite to get a job but having to ad­prisons also enables former· these differences, however, the mit you are a former prisoner," prisoners to remain in their former prisoners have formed would use big words I wouldn't prisoners have to face in order is a frightening and lonely own communities. Prospective trusting relationships with understand," Muller began to ot readapt. Many just want to thought says James Roemer, residents are interviewed in the Notre Dame students and attri­accept the students as his talk and are really confused Director of Community Rela­prisons, and only those con­bute much of their successful friends and now attributes his about their crimes. tions, and coordinator of Dis­victed of sexual offences are rehii:Jilitation to their help. success to their openness and "In our society, we punish mas. disriminated against. House "They've helped me a lot." willingness to help. "''d be someone with a prison term. These men and women have rules include no violence or sex says John Mueller, a former back into drugs if they hadn't It's enough for them to com­lost touch with society, having in the house, and the house­prisoner, who presently resides helped," says Mueller. "I never plete their term but then we go been through a hardening ex­hold adopts its own rules for at Dismas after serving seven used to pay my bills on time, and punish them when they perience, have no concept of self-government based on ex­years for drug and alcohol but now I am saving my want to get a job," says economic realities, and have perience and circumstance. abuse. "They've taught me money. If I was back in the old Bridenstein. "I can understand little chance of success. "We "Everyone is expected to eat about myself. I was used to attmosphere around all the prejudices, but I wish it didn't reclaim lost lives," Roemer says the dinner meal together," says being by myself and I used to drugs I would have done it happen. We lock them up so of the project. "Unless they Roemer. Dinner begins with a stay high all the time. I so­again, but now I'm not nervous they don't hurt us. Given a learn to adapt , they are forced prayer that reflects the diversity cialize more." anymore and I want to be chance, they can do better." Into quick crime situations of religious beliefs among Mueller was introduced to the myself." " I'd never have the oppor­which perpetuate poverty for those living at the house and program by his counsellor who Muelller success has been tuinity to do It again. I've be­themselves and for others." follows with introductions. suggested it as a possible praised by the students and he come less critical about mis­By living with college stu­Though chores are usually transitional stage in his return is surely an example of the po­takes, and I ask myself dents who are non­shared by all residents, outside to society. "I was tired of the tential of such a program, but questions like why did he do it, judegemental and genuinely community people such as area at first and I didn't want to repeat offenses are also a what sort of things caused it," concerned, these former Gene Corrigan and Digger do it, but I ended up moving problem with some who find It says Jamie cantorna, another prisoners can regain the social Phelps and his wife come to in," says Mueller. After getting harder to adapt. Weekly student resident, on why he skills they may have lost in the home to prepare the meal. over his initial fears that "they meetings of all in the house joined the project. On the address problems such as this weekends they are just a bunch where reasons behind the of "normal guys," playing P<>Qt crime of any other difficulties going bowling, or just talking~ are discussed. The experience is not for "The toughest part is getting everyone, however. "Some them to trust you, "says Paul people aren't concerned Bridensteine, an economics­enough to do it," says can­pre-profesional major who lives lorna. To best set an example, at the house. "We care and we "you have to help them realize wouldn't be here if we didn't. some goals and eventually "They need to believe that reach for them." people do care about them and cantorna finds that the they can believe in themselves. former prisoners "don't plan John is getting his life back from A to B" and are in need together. Sure its a long road of examples. When he was ac­but it was 22 to 24 years cepted to medical school, they before he was ready. were all genuinely excited to "I didn't know what to ex­see that his hard work and de­pect" Bridenstein says, "I just termination had brought him knew I wanted to help them what he wanted. get adjusted in any way I Dlsmas House wlll continue could." Within an hour after to provide support and encour­reading about Dlsmas in the agement to the community of Observer, he called for an in­South Bend with the help of terview and was accepted. dedicated and concerned stu­Bridenstine also feels that he dents, but their example has gained a better under­should also be a strong one for
Joann Whitfield/The Observer 
standing of prison life and an the students who will remain 


Notre Dame senior and Dlsmas House resident, Jame Cantorna appreciation for the struugles on campus. 
-~­
Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 10
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
Bengal Bouts tickets are available at Gate 10 of the ACC. Tickets for the opening round matches Feb. 27 and Mar. 1, as well as the semifinals and finals, are all $2 per session. A special pass for all bouts is available for $3. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 6:45 in the basement of Breen-Phillips. The indoor soccer season will be discussed. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA Tuesday, March 3, at 6 p.m. at the NVA office. Participants should wear shorts and a t-shirt. The free test will be given on a first-come, first serve basis. -The Observer 
The ND rugby club will have a mandatory meeting Monday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all interested in playing this semester. No experience required. For more information contact Quen­tin (287-5903) or Oakie (1170). -The Observer 
The ND women's track club hosts the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday, Feb. 28. Anyone interested in volunteering for the meet is aasked to contact Dan Ryan at 287-6616 or 239-6989. There will be a meeting for the volunteers tomorrow at the women's cross country office (room 127) on the second floor of the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND sailing club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. at room 204 O'Shaughnessey. For more infor­mation contact Mark Ryan at 3883, -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will have a meeting for all rowers tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. at room 127 Niewland. Also the men's novice team will hold practice today at 4 p.m. on the first floor of Rockne. Bring money for sweats. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball begins the first week of March. Entry forms are available at Angela Ath­letic Facility and are due today. There is a $10 fee per team. -The Observer 
No. Dlinois to join NSC 
Special to The Observer 
DAYTON, Ohio -North Star Conference President R. Elaine Dreidame announced today that Northern Illinois University has accepted an in­vitation to join the conference as an active member beginning with the 1987-88 academic year. 
The addition of Northern Il­linois, along with the elevation of current NSC associate mem­ber Valparaiso to active status, will bring the membership of the North Star to six. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame, DePaul University, Marquette Univer­sity and the University of Dayton comprise the North Star Conference's present ac­tive members. 
The ObMrYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsener Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Complete KEG TAP UNIT: C02 Tank. Construction. Drivers, Welders, Mac­Hey Ed K ...... Molly •••••• Bonjour ma chere amie! Pressure Gauge,Tapper.all Hoses AND hinists. Will train some positions. (Up to Happy 21st Birthday Qu'est-ce qui est nouveau en Franca?[ NOTICES FOR RENT REFRIDGERATOR -$100 x272-7649 $6()()(}tnonth). TransContinental Job From sunny FLA Je voudrais tu visiter. Est-ce possible? 
late nights Search (303) 452-2258 fee. Go out & par-tay! Ecrites-moi s"il te plait. Je ne peux pas Love big sis attendre pour le juin quand tu retournesTYPING AVAILABLE 48R AVAILABLE NEXT FALL SEMI­···················--···········································
"I WAS HERE FOR TED'S LAST YEAR" aux Etas-Unis. Aies une bonne joumee!
287-4082 FURNISHED $440.00tnon. 
Aide needed for two to Cleveland on '2127.
t-shirts Avec amour, ton amie a N.D., SCSAFE,CONVENIENT LOCATION, CALL PLEASE call Michelle at 284-5076 after$6 delivered! CaH 4127 or 1028
TICKETS
GEOFF, 288-7276. 
6 p.m. Wordprocessing-Typing 
.... STUDENT OPENING .... LITTLE SAND' BUY THE TICKETS,
HOMES CLOSE TO NO Attention May Gradsll I am willing to ex­American Impressionists TRUST ME. f"Ll BUY THEM IF YOU272-8827 FURNISHED Ride needed to Milwaukee leave '2126 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 return 311. Call 284-5105 or 239-5370.
change hotel rooms for graduation tick­Snite Museum of Art DON"T USE THEM ratts. ets. Seats must be in the dome. Call Wednesday, February 25HOUSE NEXT
Typing FURNISHED FOR Ride needed to Purdue any weekend.
Robert 1546 7-9, lectur&tefreshmants · He said: "I've never had that done to meFree Pickup and Delivery SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684-288..()955 
Call Heidi at 284-4319. 
.... STUDENT OPENING .... before." She just smiled ... DOMINANCE
2n-7406 

NEED 1 GA for Brooklyn game. Call Mike is up lor grabs!
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH 
Like new Smith Corona Electric Type­LUX. FURNISHED OCEAN FRONT 
1142 writer: foreign characterS'Ilccents. Only
.... STUDENT OPENING "" There once was a Womens Swim Team SERVICE. CONDO SLEEPS 4-POOL-$500 MAR 
EXPERT TYPING CALl $60. Call Prof. Meyerhofer at 284-5399
American Impressionists from Notre Dame, There goal was to winMRS. COKER, 233-7009. 14-21 CONTACT MICHELLE £1259 days or 289-1426 eves.
Snite Museum of Art Midwests and gain fame. This is our last Wednesday, February 25 time to swim our best, So let"s shoot for 
•• 194 •• 
7-9, lectur&tefreshments the title and leave behind all the rest.
PERSONALS
DOES your club need aT-shirt design? 
.... STUDENT OPENING •••• It really is amazing When you meet that We're destined to break records in every How about T -shirts or other imprinted 
WANTED 
special few And it really seems quite won­race, In our own pool, we"ll set the win­
sportswear?? Reasonable prices. Cali OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, IS IT LOVE? or just sex? Don't tell the drous When you like them and they like ning pace. We"va worked our buns off all John at 1622. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE IRSII 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, you. We"ve really had some good times the year through. So lat"s get psyched
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, From Captain Marsh. to Penguin Lust and Saturday Night. Party we will do!
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE SEX We share our fears and sorrows WeAsia. ALl fields. $900-2000 THE YELLOW SUBMARINE SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX LOVE SEX laugh until we bust. We really must con­Gumby 0, We are rooting for you.
mo.Sightseeing.Free info.Write IJC, PO We deliver til midnight daily LOVE SEX LOVE SEX AND THE IRSI fess And we really think it's keen We've Row"em down il"l Madison!! Love. M&D. 
BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 Buy 2 sandwiches. try a snack sub Ires THIS SPRING'S HOnEST PRODUC­
I LOST/FOUND I 
found a 2nd home In Badin 318. lt"s our Little Sls, & your COG"s 
til March 1. TION FROM THE ST. ED'S HALL 
first year together And I hope we've satNEED TO BUY 272-4453 PLAYERS. 
a trend That we 'II be friends together For Need Aide to HOUSTON or AUSTINfound: gold Benrus quartz watch contact MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PAINTER & lour years till the end. bo,km.gp Spring Break Share $$ Kevin 161 6'1614lost and found La Fortune 
SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 HEY, MIRIAM HILL OR 239-4478. CHIMES Have a great day! 
NEED RIDE TO DAYTON, OR VICINITY. Bridget Agresta-We didn't forget aboutLOST: One room key to Alumni at Junior The Saint Mary's Literary Magazine MAR.6 and MAA.14 Greg at 1590 you yesterday. We hope you had a great Fonnal. It found, please call Paul at 1209. 
Is Now Considering 20th birthday. Love the 6-A sect100.
Thanks. 
I need a ride to MILWAUKEE for the POEMS NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND NOTRE DAM&MAAQUETIE garneill! STORIES WEEKEND OF FEB. 27-29. CALL The DRUIDS want YOU 
Today you tum 20; tomorrow you will feel LOST: Grey Britches Backpack. Spanish Please help me and call Ann-Marie at PLAYS PHOTOS MIRIAM AT 2687. If you want to become a Druid. and 
its effects. Happy 8-day Colleen Clynes! 
books inside. from the Huddle Wed. night 
4015. DRAWINGS receive all the blessings and benefits that 
Love your 6-A section2-18 Please call Maura £3727 

Submit to CHIMES MAGAZINE CO MAX REASON AND SENSIBIUTY 83-14 being such entails, find one of us and HELP! WE NEED A RIDE OR RIDERS WESTLER 310 MADELEVA HALL ALUMNI; TheN wtn be a reunion at ask to join the Notre Dame Druid Society. 
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE·LOST: Green suade jacket at Bridget's 
TO ST. LOUIS. LEAVING FRIDAY 2-27 VIctor's after Spring Break. For lnfor· Stonehenge endures ... 
TITION GRANTED.

on Thurs. 2119. Please, I need the keys AND RETURNING SUNDAY 3'1. matlon call any of the following num­D.A.C.
Stave & Mark, Thanks for Sat. night atdesperately! CaH 284-5010 it found all PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT x4304 OR NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? berl: John Simona, 277-5963; Kathy 
next week. JPW. We had a great time silting at your
CHRIS AT x3789. Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S McGuire 277-1241; Don Urgo, 287· table. Debbie. Steve, is the deal still on? 
BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. 5818; Chuck Bidinger, 272-412118; CUrt 
Thank you St. Jude for all the favorslost: EEL SKIN WALLET; single-fold. 
Earn $2000-4000. Gain valuable busi­just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 Junge, 283-1432. 
grantad!llllll!ll!

brownlit's the wallat that I am really con­Run, Joey, Run
ness experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar­cerned about. What was in it can be Kung Fu Fighting
keting Director for Campus Connection, What would SPRING BREAK be like KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS Cathy Stacy: welcome to the Sports De­replaced. Possibly lost in engineering December 1963 (Oh, What a Night)
our nationally expanding innovative ad­without your STARTING NOW! CALL 272-4135. 
partment (sorry so late).

auditorium, or south dining hall on Sat­vertising guide. Currently at 42 Boogie Nights 
RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS 
urday after 6:00 p.m.. Please contact Get ready boogie oogie oogie 'til you just 
univers~ies-we'R provide complete train­RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you JUGGLER Camp Aiello, Thursday March 5.
John Eustennann at 283-106611 can't boogie no more. Wheels-a-Fun
ing, materials, and support. Call Chris -nt them. You know you need them. W1nta to publlah your fiction, poems, Roller Boogie
Kelsey, Manager, at(805) 564-1260 for WEU COME AND GET THEMI CALL pllya art worlla, 1nd photos. Bring to TOASTMASTERSFOUND: one German car key on side­It's coming ...
complete information. Ideal for ambitious, TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLON! 309 O'Shag. Deadline: Frl, Feb. 27 WILL MEET AT 8PM -NOT 7PM ­walk to d-2 parking lot on Sat. night Iden­Stayin' Alive
personable freshman-junior. Start in Mar­"THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" TONIGHT IN RM 223 HAYES HEAL VI tify the make and you can have it back. Y.M.C.A.
Apr. HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO THE PIT· 
1672 The Night Chicago Died
............................................................... TSBURGH-l.ATROBE AREA FOR THIS 
TOASTMASTERSWe Are FamilySUMMER JOBS ' WEEKEND (FEB. 27) I CAN LEAVE AT WILL MEET AT 8PM -NOT 7PM ­Found: ONE STUPID LOOKING OOU 1ST SOURCE BANK
ALl lAND AND WATER SPORTS 10 AM FRIDAY. CALL MAUREEN AT TONIGHT IN AM 223 HAYES HEAL VI 
WITH A FUNNY SAILOR SUIT. 4041 PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK Buy or leaH a car. 236-2200. Flru~nc­284-5230 SOPHOMORES--SOPHOMORESII MOUNTAINS lng available for all US ItaiM. Come join us at BEACON BOWL this St. Jude: Thanks, big guy! 
Thursday! The bus will leave from main I lost a gold Cross on the second floor 
CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381-..................................~.............................. PATIY STUDEBAKER 
4224 Need a ride to Cleveland. Any 1'188kend. and everyone on PW4-Thanks lor the circle at 9:15. $4.00 includes bowling and of library on Sunday 2-22 Please call289-R1ndom
transportation. Sign up in the Class Office 
Call Miriam at 283-2687. wonderful time. Have a great spring and
8472 if you found it. Thank You. Random!
by Thursday at 5:00. Hope to see you
ooooooooooo••••••••••ooooooooooo\o ••••••••••••••••uo•••••••••• know you have a home in CO. PLS you're 
Random II 

there!!
RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE • THANK YOU ST. JUDE. the best!! Love ya·, COO
Lost: 2 rings, SMC Class ring and Ruby She's Randomlll 
WEEKEND OF FEB. 27-29 -WILL
ring and one Seiko watch, lady"s two She's...
ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE ... ALL DRUIDS Dear MEM 8818, "More water glideth by
SHARE $$$ -CALL GRETCHEN AT ...ATIENTION SENIORS ... NOT READY tone. Lost in the ACC field house on 2-22. 
the mill Than wots the miller of, and easy 2661. MUST DIE... All DRUIDS MUST TO GET ENGAGED? UNPREPAREDExtreme sentimental value. If found 
it is Of a cut loaf to steal a shive ... "WS please can Dena at 284-5209. REWARD ~~~~~~~NVVV~NV~.~
OIE ... All DRUIDS MUST DIE ... TO SPEND $500 IN THE WINDY CITY 
Be this as it may, let's work out thisHELP-Need Ride To Indy On 2-27 Kevin THE WEEKEND AFTER PARTYING IT How did you like your birthday NORM?
damned thing. Remember, love is no vile£2035 UP ALL SPRING BREAK? WE OFFER
LOST IN THE 4TH FLOOR FRESHMAN (or ahoulcl I say Raaaaalphh? Don't
" Spring Break Travel to New York? •• disease that only old bags snatch when
YOU AN ALTERNATIVE· THE SOUTH
STUDIO OF THE ARCHITECTURE worry. You'll get another chance next
" Buy Now I Save •• they"re tight and need advancement. ·rm
Need ride to MPLS for spring break. Call BEND FORMAL. FOR A MERE
BUILDING ARMY GREEN BANANA monday.
in Like" is enough lor slugs and polar
Mark at 3639 or 239-7411 between 8-9 •• $90 AT Tix to Newark •• $20COUPLE, YOU CAN ENJOY FOOD, REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAG WITH UN­p.m. Will share expenses. •• Leave 3'12, Return M!1 •• DECORATIONS, PREMIUM BEER bears. but humans must do better. Merry, 
MAILED LETIERS. NAME IS SEWN """HAPPY BIRTHDAY, COLLEEN
•• Call X3586 NOW '' for ita human fails to love, and the Candle
(HEINEKEN AND LOWENBAAU ON
UNDER COVER FLAP. PLEASE CALL CLYNESIII""
gives its final flame, that human, whenPLEASE TAKE ME TO PITISBUAGH TAP), AND MUSIC BY THE ONLY OJ'S 
2098 WITH INFORMATION. Culean, hey babe, what's up? You
facing the Ultimate, will get cold feet, notFRI. 2-27 AFTER 12:00. CALL MAAITA THAT MATIER, JUST 15 MINUTES tonight, hopefully, after those 20. Noto mention cold hands. And that humanAT 1274. FROM CAMPUS. ITS HAPPENING need to BYOB, it will be there, but justThank you St. Jude for your help­MARCH 28, LIMIT 100 COUPLES, will rot. Love, Fartblossom 
LOST--LOST!! GOLD ROLEX WATCH in case BEWARE lor we too, always
HELP! NEED AIDE TO LAUDER­Thank you St. Jude for your help­FIRST COME. FIRST SERVE. TIX ON
and HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING, pos­THE LAW cause a scare! Great time--lace down ... 
DALEtW. PALM AREA 3'13. CALL SUE Thank you St. Jude for your help-SALE FEB 25 AND 26. 3-5 P.M., IN
sibly at the Miami Room in LaFortune, rocks Lots of Luv, Cole, Mia, and Nance 
284-5315. LAFORTUNE. FOR MORE INFO CALL or in Flenner Hall. Reward for return-­L.ae'a AlbaTITO 2n-0973 OR PAT 277-3687.
Please call Eric 1078. Lost around 13 Sat. night Schnuckums,
SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE HEY DICK AND DOAKI Frick has rallied MUST BE 21 BY 3-28.February. Lata nita wrestling (anything goes)? 
PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK with Oork and Freck has rallied with Dick. 
joe butkovichI STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE so why not Frick n Dick and Frack n ITS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR 
Found: Love letter written by Meggie to JOE BUTKOVICH ·······················~:.\.Fii<··P:::························ 
HEADED TO Dork?l? LOVE VAlli FRICK N FRACK KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL
Patrick. Found on shuttle . Interesting JOE BUTKOVICH 
THERE IS A REALLY GREAT HORROR reading. If either ot you want this letter, HAPPYBIATHDAYIII 3 FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTER 272-4135. 
COUNTY, HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 SENIOR VIDEO ' SENIOR VIDEO ' MOVIE PLAYING IN TOWN! 
please ca~ 2129. Ask for Kevin Barry. Signed: John, Man. and the Freshman
SENIOR VIDEO ' SENIOR VIDEO ' Pleue attend Profeaaor Brooke' talk WOULD YOU LIKE TO JOIN ME? 
It's good to know that Maggie is finally Snatch
SENIORS ' Last chance -deadline to and dlacusalon on "Mystical Experl·
maturing. 
buy the senior class video is Friday, enceln Judaism" tonight at 10:00 P.M. 
ATTN DRUMMERS: Give Joe B. a call
March 6. Make checks payable to SPE­In 341 O'Shaughnesay. This Ia for all MOM "Kate", Sura you don't...La. Ia. Ia.
and wish him a hearty "lighten up,
LOST: White K-Swiss tennis shoes, at FOR SALE CIAL MOMENTS COLLECTION for theology m•Jora 1nd tnt-ted per· Ia, Ia!! Scott and Paul. 
Francis II" for his 21st. (Call aarty, before the ACC Please call 4645. $47.50. Send to 735 LeMans Hall, SMC. aona. 
the drugs take hold.) x2261 or x2314 ·­
Delivery is graduatiOn weekend. MAUDE, Thanks lor Sunday, I am still
Call now! 
GREEN & GOLD '87 WOMEN'S CLASS Comfortable ranch for sale by owner. RIDE NEEDED to CHICAGO, O"HARE. recoveringll Goodluck in meet, Go like 
..................................... ························· 
RING FOUND TUES. 1 PM IN 2ND FL. One Mila north of NO library. 3 bedrooms, ATTENTION R.O.T.C. or NW SUBS on FRI FEB 27. Will share greased snotll ha hal I love you! Sophie 
0 THURSDAY, 26th. LEE"S RIBS DOL­O"SHAG WOMEN'S BATHROOM. CALL 2 baths-low taxes. $68,900. Call 277-REGULATION CUTS -$4.50 expenses. Call Lawrence at 3257. 
LAR MOLSONS C with LAZY BOY AND 
KATY £1319 TO IDENTIFY INITIALS. 1907 ALWAYS PERFECT LIFE IS LIKE BASKETBALL­
THE SWIVEL ROCKERS
VITO'S BARBERSHOP HELPI! I NEED A AIDE TO SOUTH Sometimes you score. sometimes you
and MILES LONG AND THE SHAN· 
LOSE SOME MONEY? I FOUND IT. YOUR OWN CAR FOR BREAK? 1980 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST .CAROLINA, PREFERABLY HILTON don't.
TYTOWN JAMBOREE . HOW MUCH AND WHERE? CALL 4dr 4spd V6 Chevy Citation:$1350 call SOUTH BEND -233-4767 HEAD, FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL Tots. Bosch,Crisp, Treesh 
0 THURSDAY, 26th. LEE"S RIBS DOL­
£4088. 1682 DAN£ 11n. 
LAR MOLSONS 
... ~=-.­


February 25, 1987 The Observer page 11 

nes 

Irish Hockey lnterhall Hockey Sports Lists 

Blue Dlvlalon Through Sunday 
w L T GF GA Pta. PLAYER, POS. GP G A PTS PIM PPG SHG GW Off Campus 5 1 0 26 8 10 

Real Names
Mike McNeill, C 26 16 15 31 22 4 0 2 Grace 5 1 0 36 11 10 Tim Kuehl, AW 26 12 12 24 38 6 0 1 Dillon 3 2 0 20 7 6 Cavanaugtl'Howard 3 3 0 19 21 6 OF PROFESSIONAL WRESTLERS
Matt Hanzel, LW 22 10 13 23 2 4 0 0 
Flanner 2 3 0 8 19 4
Kevin Markovitz, D 26 2 17 19 30 1 0 0 
CarroM<eenan 1 5 0 6 36 2
Tom Mooney, C 26 8 8 16 40 2 1 1 0 0
St. Ed'&+loly Cross 0 5 0 5 18 0 
Pat Foley, D 26 4 11 15 32 3 0 0 0 
0 

Bruce Guay, W 26 6 6 12 39 2 0 0 Gold Ovlalon 0 
0 

Rich Sobilo, RW 24 5 7 12 10 1 0 0 w L T GF GA Pte oo 
Robert Herber, RW . 24 4 6 10 14 0 0 1 Pangborn 4 0 1 16 3 9 
oO Morrissey 4 1 1 28 8 9
Robert Bilton, C 26 5 4 9 8 0 0 0 
"Alumni 3 1 1 16 14 7 
0

Tom Smith, LW 15 2 7 9 20 1 0 0 
Stanford 3 3 0 14 13 6
Lance Patten, D 26 2 6 8 42 0 0 0 
Fisher 2 2 1 20 14 5 
Roy Bemiss, D 20 2 3 5 43 0 0 0 
Zahm 1 4 1 18 23 3 Frank O'Brien, D 25 1 4 5 22 0 0 0 "Sarin 0 5 0 2 36 0 
Tim Caddo, D 22 1 4 5 8 0 0 0 • record of Alumni-Sarin game not available. 
Michael Leherr, D 25 2 1 3 22 0 0 2 Blue Dlvleton Reaults 
Hulk Hogan Terry Bollea 
Tom Fitzgerald, LW 12 2 0 2 2 0 0 0 
Off Campus 4, St. Ed's 1 Holy Cross 0
John Nickodemus, LW 23 1 1 2 10 0 0 1 
Rowdy Roddy Roderick Toombs
Off Campus 4, Grace 3 
Brian Montgomery, C 17 0 2 2 6 0 0 0 Grace 7, Cavanaugh 1 Howard 1 
Sgt. Slaughter Robert Remus
Bruce Haikola, D 9 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 John Welsch, C 25 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Gold Dlvlaton Reaulta Dusty Rhodes Virgil Runnels Tim Lukenda, G Alumni 3, Fisher 2
6 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 
Andre The Giant ndre Rousimoff 
Erik Galis, AW 9 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Stanford 2, Morrissey 1 Zahm 7, Sarin 0 Abdullah The B Larry Shreve 
Andy Slaggert, RW 6 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 
Thuradey'a Gemea
Bench 2 
Junkyard Dog Sylvester Ritter
Carroll/ Keenan vs. Flanner Pangborn vs. Fisher 
Brutus Beefcake Ed Leslie 
NOTRE DAME 26 86 127 213 429 22 1 8 Mondey'a Game OPPONNETS 26 111 145 256 409 15 5 17 Dillon vs. St. Ed's I Holy Cross Semlflnala, March 3 
Flnala, March 5 
SCORING BY PERIODS 
1 2 3 OT lnterhall Basketball
T Notre Dame 
22 33 30 1 86 Opponents 31 39 37 4 111 Men's Playoffs Results 
A League 
AP Top 20 Sports Calendar
GOALTENDERS MIN RCD G GAA svs PCT so Winner's bracket Lance Madson 914 4-10-0 67 Holy Cross 45, St. Ed's 43
4.40 469 .875 0 Tim Lukenda 384 2·5-0 3.90 .848
25 139 Sorin 47, Dillon 45
0 

Balketbel! 
Home games in CAPS
Jeff Henderson 310 2-2-0 16 3.10 148 .902 0 Stanford 63, Holy Cross 55 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Morrissey 41, Sorin 35 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­NOTRE DAME 
1608 8-17-1 109" 4.07 \ 756 .874 0 Stanford 59, Mo.-rissey 50 theses, this season's records and total points. Points TodayOPPONENTS 1608 17-8-1 86 3.20 635 .881 1 Loaer'a bracket based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
Men's basketball vs. DEPAUL
Dillon 61, .St. Ed's 56 are Italicized. 
SMC basketball vs. VALPARAISO
"Does not include open-net goals ~rin 53, Holy Cross 39 
1. Nevada<tas Vegas (49) 28-1 1,258B League 2. North Csrollna (6) 25-2 1 , 195 Thuract.y Wlnner'a bracket 
3. Indians (9) 23-2 1 , 179 Women's swimming at MIDWEST IN· 
Sorin 53, Howard 47 4. DePaul 25-1 1,062 
VITATIONAL
Off Campus 72, Stanford 47 5. Temple 28-2 991 
6. Purdue 20-3 986 SMC basketball at districts
Eeatern Cont.rence Walea Conference Keenan 62, Cavanaugh 40 Atlantic Dlvleton Adama Dlvlalon 7. lowe 23-4 799
Grace 50, OC Hoobers 42 
w L Pet. GB w L T GF QA Pta. 8. Georgetown 21 -4 786
Dillon 50, Grace 38 Frldlly
Boston 41 14 .745 Hartford 31 24 6 207 204 68 9. Pittsburgh 22-5 680 
Sorin 45, Off Campus 33
Philadelphia 31 24 .564 10 Montreal 29 26 8 211 198 66 10. Alabama 21-4 673 Hockey at Alabama-Huntsville Washington 29 25 .537 11.5 Boston 29 26 5 221 201 63 Dillon 37, Keenan 33 11. Syracuse 22-5 617 
Women's swimming at MIDWEST IN­
New York 16 39 .291 25 Loaer'a bracket 12. Oklahoma 21-5 569
Quebec 24 30 8 202 203 56 
VITATIONAL
New Jersey 13 41 .241 27.5 Buffalo 22 32 6 210 227 50 Grace over Cavanaugh 13. Clemson 24-3 561 
14. 19-6 Women's tennis at Texas Christian
Central Dlvlelon Howard 40, Stanford 38 Illinois 493 Patrick Dlvlalon 
15. Texas Christain 22-4 407 
Detroit 36 17 .679 Men's Playoffs Schedule 16. Kansas 21-7 373 Milwaukee 36 22 .621 2.5 Philadelphia 37 18 5 243. 1n 79 A League 17. Duke 21-6 179 Atlanta 33 21 .611 3.5 N.Y. Islanders 27 26 8 208 202 62 18. Florida 21-7 160 Saturday
Loaer'a bracket
Chicago 27 25 .519 8.5 19. New Orleans 22-3 96
N.Y. Rangers 26 27 8 242 237 60 Men's basketball at Marquette
Sorin vs. Dillon, Thursday
Indiana 27 28 .491 10 Washington 26 28 8 211 227 60 20. Providence 18-6 70 Morrissey vs. Sorill'Oillon winner, Sunday Indoor track vs. DEPAUL and MAR­
Cleveland 22 33 .400 15 Pittsburgh 23 28 10 224 219 56 New Jersey 23 31 5 206 269 51 Championship QUETIE Stanford vs loser's bracket winner, Tuesday Others receiving votes: St. John's 67, UCLA 40, Hockey at Alabama-Huntsville Weatem Conference C.mpbell Conter..lce B League Navy 32. Notre Oamtl 32, Western Kentucky 31, Women's basketbaM at MarquetteSmythe Dvlalon Memphis State 23. Texas-EI Paso 19, Georgia Tech
Mldwaat Dlvlalon Winner's bracket Wrestling at Marquette
w L T GF GA Pta 17, Virginia 13, Auburn 6, Missouri 6, Tulsa 5, San
w L Pet. GB Sorin vs. Dillon, Thursday 
Women's swimming at MIDWEST IN­
Dallas 35 19 .648 Edmonton 38 18 5 283 212 81 Diego 4, Southwest MilkK>Uri State 3, Howard 2,
Loser's bracket
U1ah 31 23 .574 4 Calgary 35 25 2 240 222 72 Northeastern 2, Ohio State 2. Kansas State 1, Step­VITATIONAL Winnipeg 33 23 6 221 213 72 Grace vs. Howard, Thursday
Houston 29 25 .537 6 hen F. Austin 1. 
Men's fencing at Great Lakes Cham­
Los Angeles 25 28 7 246 242 57 Off Campus vs. Keenan, ThursdayDenver 24 32 .429 12 
pionships
San Antonio 19 36 .345 16.5 Vancouver 19 36 8 203 247 46 Grac&tioward winner vs. Off 
Women's fencing at Great Lakes
Sacramento 18 36 .333 17 Campus-Keenan winner, Sunday 
N. Star Conference
Norrla Dlvlalon
Pacific Dlvlalon Winner of above game vs. Sorill'Oillon loser, Championships Monday Men's tennis at Ohio State
Detroit 26 26 9 198 213 61
L.A. Lakers 42 13 .764 Conference Standings 
Minnesota 26 28 7 231 225 59 Championship Women's tennis at Texas Christian
Portland 35 21 625 7.5 W L Pet. GB 
St. Louis 23 27 10 202 223 56 Sorill'Oillon winner vs. loser's bracket winner,
Seattle 27 29 .482 15.5 DePaul 3 1 .750 
Chicago 23 29 9 223 243 55 Tuesday
Golden State 27 30 .474 16 Dayton 3 1 .750 Phoenix 22 33 .400 20 Notre Dame 2 2 .500 1
Toronto 23 32 6 209 237 52 
Women's Results Sunday
L.A. Clippers 9 43 .173 31.5 Marquette 0 4 .0 3 
Lyons 32, Breen-Phillips A 31 Women's basketball at Wisconsin Pasquerilla East over Farley A Overall Stendlnga Men's fencing at NCAA Midwest • Farley B over Badin · 
Regional
Leat Nlgh'a Reaulta Laat Nlght'a Rnulta · Lewis A over Lewis B DePaul 18 6 .750 
Women's fencing at NCAA Midwest
Detroit 120. New Jersey 112 Dayton 11 13
N.Y. Rangers 6, Buffalo 3 Walsh over Breen-Phillips B, forleit .458 7 
Portland 122, New York 109 Quebec 5, Minnesota 4 Notre Dame 8 15 .348 9.5 Regional Chicago 113, Atlanta 103 Washington 8, Detroit 2 Marquette 8 16 .333 10 Men's tennis at Ohio
Women's Schedule
Milwaukee 120, Indiana 114 OT Pittsburgh 5, Edmonton 2 Sacramento 112, San Antonio 106 St. Louis 3, N.Y. Islanders 2 Leat Week'a Reaulta
Breen-Phillips B vs. Breen Phillips A Denver 134, Houston 105 Calgary 2, Vancouver 0 Walsh vs. Farley A Dayton 68, Marquette 53 Monday Utah 1 33, Seattle 103 Los Angeles 8, Winnipeg 3 Pasquerilla East vs. Farley B Notre Dame 53, DePaul 44 
Men's basketball vs. BROOKLYN
L.A. Lakers 97, Phoenix 93 Badin vs. Lewis 8 Notre Dame 90, Illinois-ChiCago 53 Tontght'a Game• Tonlght'a Gamea Lewis A vs. Dayton 60, Xavier 51
Lyons
Portland at Boston Boston at Hartford Virginia 82, DePaul 49 
Tuesday
Cleveland at DetrOit N.Y. Rangers at Toronto Northern Illinois 85, Marquette 60
Semlflnaht, March 1
Sacramento at Dallas lidmonton at New Jersey Marquette 67, Valparaiso 53 Women's basketball vs. NORTHERN Phoenix at L.A. Lakers Montreal at Chicago Finals, March 4 Central Michigan 80, Dayton 59 ILLINOIS 



SENOR KELLY'S 

119 NORTH MICHIGAN S.B.'s 1 IRISH-MEXICAN 
RESTAURANT 

Wednesdays -MUG of BEER 75 cents 
The bar
free munchies! 
234­

10% off all dinners with NDSMC Is open 
I. D . 'til 12am 
...... 
~:;;.,~; ia'i1i. •'~~re\ :ira'\:rre\~rre,~ri.Yirie\: ~ i•'·~ ;.i: ~ 
•••••••••••••••••••+ 

t ••••••••••••••••••• 
: t  Who's Patti dreamingofTHIS  • :  
: .·  weekend?  •  
:~ +~· · : t··  Happy Belated Birthday, WEED Love & Revenge  : : t +  
t  •·  L.S.  :  


The Observer Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 12 

I , 
il 
I ~ I ~ 
I . I 
1 
l 
I 
I 
i 
\ 
\ 
\ 
i ~ 

Bookstore 
registration 
set for Mar. 1 
Special to The Observer 
Registration for Bookstore Basketball XVI will take place in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall this Sun­day, March 1, from noon until 4. 
The tournament is open to all Notre Dame-Saint Mary's un­dergraduate and graduate stu­dents as well as all members of the faculty, staff and admin­istration. Teams are to be com­posed of at least five players and a registration fee of five dollars per team is required. 
The captain of each team should bring a team name, the name, address and phone num­ber of a co-captain and know whether or not any varsity foot­ball or basketball team mem­bers will play on his team. There is a limit of three varsity football players (players listed on either the spring or fall rosters) or two varsity football players and one former or pres­ent NCAA Division I basketball player per team. In no circum­stances may more than one former or present Division I basketball players play on a team. 
l 
Schedules for Bookstore Bas­ketball XVI will be distributed at a captain's meeting on Wed­nesday, March 25th, at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The tournament will begin on 
March 31st with the annual Hall of Fame game at the Bookstore Courts. 

WVU shocks No.5 Temple 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Tyrone Shaw scored 16 points and West Virginia used an effective box­and-one defense to upset No.5 Temple 64-61 in an Atlantic 10 basketball game Tuesday night, snapping the Owls' 15­game winning streak. 
Besides having the nation's longest current winning streak ended, Temple also suffered its first home loss in 34 games and first conference loss of the season. 

Items 

continued from page 16 
Enough sympathy for the rest. 
Tonight's game features the heavyweights of the mythical Great Independents. DePaul's Joey Meyer is now leading the candidates for Coach of the Year, instead of Overmatched Son Pretending to be a Coach of the Year. Dallas Comegys has finally shown some im­provement from his freshman season, after two seasons where his intensity was fre­quently AWOL. And · Rod Strickland has shown marked improvement from his super rookie season. With the rest of the players filling roles ad. mirably these Demons have made all but one of their oppo­nents blue thus far. 
The Irish, on the other hand, have made concession stands a big money-maker at every arena they play by keeping every fan until the game's end. They have survived enough buzzer-beaters to make Head Coach Digger Phelps go through his whole wardrobe. But it is doubtful that Phelps minds a little thread-ripping -in return for the performance he has received from this year's edition. 
With a few disappointments aside, the West Vire:inia yawner and UCLA fiasco come to mind, Phelps finds it hard to suppress his happiness with his team this year. 
With both teams headed straight for the NCAA Tourna­ment, there seems to be little at stake. But these two almost­conference foes have a good rivalry going and have had some very memorable clashes in the recent past. Besides, Phelps has already assured that it will be another classic. 
Another upset at the ACC? Weren't wins over Duke and North Carolina too much to ask for already? Under normal cir­cumstances, I would say so. But when the Amateur Athlete of the Year competes in some­thing called the heptathlon, these obviously aren't normal circumstances. 
The Observer is accepting applications for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
Controller Advertising Manager Development Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin Becker by 5 p.m., Friday, February 27 (in The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center.) 

ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) (INCLUDES ALL OF THE ABOVE) 

,.Oceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days ~nd ! wild nights, providing air conditioning, color TV, telephone, sw1mm1ng pool and sun deck. All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. 
:toptional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis). lfFree pool deck parties. .,.Food, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus 
Programs trip participants. 
~Computerized central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization. 
,.Full time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 


~OAD TRIP: We will provide round tnp motor coach transportatoon departong from your campus and travelling straoght through to your hotel in Fort Lauderdale All buses have reciinong seats and air condotoonong. and wash room facilities for a comfortable ride. 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY ON THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 
Sharon 283-1669 Miche.lle 283-2939 & Anne 







----COMPLETE PACKAGE 
•ALL TAXES. TIPS AND SERVICE CHARGES INCLUDED 


Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 13
The Observer 
Ellery chooses ND 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ky. ­Washington County High School basketball standout Kevin Ellery, who is among the state's leading scorers this season and a candidate for Mr. Basketball, verbally committed to Notre Dame on Tuesday. 
Ellery, however, cannot sign a national letter-of­intent until April 8. 
Ellery said that after visit­ing the Notre Dame campus in South Bend, Ind., earlier this month, he decided playing for the Fighting Irish would be the right move. 
"I feel it's the best place for me," Ellery said. "I think I can play there.'' 

International Week Continues: 
Wed: ENGLAND 
Gin & Tonics Newcastle Ale 


Thurs: FRANCE 
Kronenbourg 

He was also recruited by Georgia, Auburn, Western Kentucky, Eastern Ken­tucky and Morehead State. 
Ellery, a 6-foot-5, 230­pound forward, has averaged 29.8 points and 9.5 rebounds per game this season in leading Washing­ton County to a 20-4 record, scoring at least 20 points in each of those games. 
He has scored in double figures in 84 of the 86 varsity games he has started since his sophomore year, includ­ing the last 58 in a row. 
Ellery said now that he has committed, he can con­centrate on trying to lead Washington County to the state basketball tournament next month. 



It's elevenp.m.Doyouknowwhereyourpaperis? 

The Observer is accepting applications for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
News Editors (2) Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photography Editor Production Manager Advertising Design Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Projects Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin Becker by 5 p.m., Friday, February 27 (in The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center). 

AP Pltoto 

Georgetown's Dwayne Bryant hits the arm made it seven wins a row, handing Big East of Troy Bowers of Boston College in their game rival Boston College a 79-65 loss in Boston. earlier this year. Last night No. 8 Georgetown Details appear below. 
No.8 Hoyas get 79-65 win over Eagles 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Senior forward Reggie Williams scored 25 points to lead No. 8 Georgetown to a 79-65 Big East Conference basketball victory over Boston 
College  Tuesday  night,  the  
Hoyas'  seventh  consecutive  
victory.  

Georgetown improved to 22-4 overall and 11-4 in the confer­ence for sole possession of second place, one-half game behind Pittsburgh. 
The Eagles, 9-16 and 2-12, trailed 38-36 with 15:33 to play when Williams scored eight points in a 2 112-minute span to stretch the Hoy as' lead to 54-41. 

Let's be real. Compare the equipment she's using to yours. If you were both trying to tunnel through amountain, she'd have abulldoze~ and you'd have ashrimp fork. 
Don't despair. Your problem is already half-solved. For alimited time, you can buy an AppleS> Macintosh'" Plus or aMacintosh 512K Enhanced computer with Microsoft Works-for less money. 
Which is wonderful. 
You get aMacintosh1 with its speed, ease ofuse, and graphics capability. Plus, you get asoftware program that lets you use all this Macintosh power in all your subjects. 
Microsoft Work5 is not just one program, it's four integrated pro­grams: word processing, data-base management, spread5heet with charting, and communications. 
Meaning you can put chart5 in your history essays. Spreadsheets in your economics papers. Call Dowjones News/Retrieval at 2:00 A.r..t to get the facts for your journalism story due at 8:00A.M. 
So if you're taking more than one subject this semester, you should check out Macintosh and Microsoft Works. 
But don't wait till the eleventh hour.TI1is offer will end soon. 
And your paper might stay out all night. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 
IIW*-'*"""""""-~,..._..ofA/lllhc-p.un. hK _ ...II. ,.._.of.._~""· DmiJo-~~~•..,._-ofDo..Jo-&"""PA7. hK. ""-JIII•..,.,....,_oflil*:rwofl~· 
i I 
l l 
l 
~ 
' 
' \ I 
} 
) 
\ 
\ 
,\ 
I 
~ 
I I 
I .l I 
I , 
I \ I \ 
i \ 
l ~ 
I 

The Observer 
Atlanta Hawks guard Randy Wittman (left) holds off Indiana's Steve Stipanovich (second left) while Pacers guard John Long (right) and Hawks forward Cliff Livingston look on in their 

Huskies 
continuedfrom page 16 
the second period (.440) after a red-hot first half (.606). They also shot well from the foul line, hitting 20-of-24 for an .83 clip. 
The Irish wrapped up their home season with the victory over the Huskies, finishing 7-6 at the ACC. It was the third straight victory for DiStanis­lao's team, making it their longest winning streak of the year. 
"We want to keep playing the way we have been," said DiS­tanislao of her team's remain­ing games. "We want to bal­ance our scoring and keep up the inside game." 
The Irish have Marquette, Wisconsin, and Dayton road games left on the schedule. 
IRISH ITEMS: Although it was the final home game of the season, there are no senior players on the Irish, leaving the ceremony for next year. . . Bunek's 27 points and 16 rebounds marked the tenth game of the season in which she was in double figures in both categories. . . Botham passed Laura Dougherty to claim fifth place on the Notre Dame all­time scoring list. Botham, a junior, has scored 966 points during her irish career. 
Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 14 

AP Photo game last week. Last night, Atlanta fell to Chicago, 113-103, while the Pacers dropped a game to Milwaukee. A complete NBA update appears in Sports Wednesday on page 11. 
Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network Presents 
special guests 
eorgia Satellites aturday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C. C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone VISNMC call (219)239-7460 
LIVE 
AS~ 
KN~rt--,curL'IS/ 
Pasquerilla East stays on top as IH basketball nears finals 
By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer 
The playoffs have not yet begun for the women's inter­hall basketball league, but with only one more round of games remaining in the regular season, action has heated up to post-season levels. 
Leading the pack all season has been Pasquerilla East, who going into Thursday night's final regular season contest, boast an undefeated season thus far. On Monday night at the ACC, P.E. played once­beaten Farley A and ran away with a 48-32 victory. Things didn't go exactly as planned, however, at least in the begin­ning. 
"We got behind early, 10-3," explained P.E. captain Regi Richter, who fininshed with 12 points, "and we also knew that Farley was going to be one of the toughest games of the season. When we were still down by one at the half we knew we had to regroup." 
In the third quarter, however, P.E. went on an early 8-0 run and never looked back. In the fourth quarter, P .E. broke open a close game and cruised to a relatively easy 16­point victory. 
In another key women's in­terhall contest on Monday night, Breen-Phillips' poor second-half performance doomed them to a 32-21 loss at the hands of Lyons. B.P. got out to a 13-8 lead at halftime, but went absolutely cold in the third quarter, scoring no points. In the fourth, B.P. was able to manage eight, but it was too little too late. Missing from that game for B.P., however, was leading scorer and rebounder Anne Curoe. 
Rounding out the action, Far­ley B defeated Badin 56-48 in a high-scoring affair, while Lewis A defeated Lewis B in a rout, 44-11. On Thursday, the key game of the night will be Lewis, defending interhall champion, against Lyons. The winner will apparently join B.P., P.E., and Farley in the playoff rounds beginning on March 1st. 
THE IMPACT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ON SOCIETY 
A Series of Lectures by Distinguished Visiting Scholars to Inaugurate the PROGRAM IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND VALUES at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


RICHARD L. GARWIN 
IBM Fellow and Science Adviser, Thomas J. Watson IBM Research Center 
''SPACE DEFENSE THROUGH TECHNOLOGY • THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM?'' 
7:30 P.M. Thursday, February 26, 1987 Memorial Library Auditorium 
Dr. Garwin, a distinguished physicist and high ranking adviser to the federal government on national security Issues, Is co-author of Nuclear Weapons and World Politics (1977) and Science Advice to the President (1980). 

IllALUMNISENIOR =====::i 






~CLUB 
Applications for the 1987-1988 The two available positions are: Assistant Managers of the Alumni­Asst. Manager for Food'Supplies Senior Club can be picked up in the Asst. Manager RentaiS'Promotions Student Activities Office. 
The deadline for all applications is Job descriptions are displayed in March 6, 1987. Interviews will be the Student Activities Office. held March 30, 31 and April 1, 2. 
10 Gallon part  
11 Destroy  
12 Old-time  
actor Roscoe  
13 Medicinal  
amount  
18 "Grand Ole-"  
19 Ostrich e.g.  
23 Track events  
24 Foot part  
25 Ursa­ 
26 Orally  
27 Bert and  
family  
28 Water buffalo  
29 Dismay: var.  
30 N.Z. native  
31 Ancient  
Mexican  2/25/87  
33 Red dye  45 Nippon  51 Twig angle  
36 Must  aborigine  52 France.cattl  
37 Ell's place 38 Put into  46 "Tempest" sprite  the violinist 53 Cry of revelry  
financial  47 Booster rocket  54 Soap frame  
difficulties  48 Open  bar  
44 Dealer in  49 Unadulterated  56 Kid's dad  
supplies  50 ­Karenina  57 Guido's note  


~~~~~......................................................w..ect.n.es•d•a•y,•F•e•b•ru•a•ry._25•'•100__7_-.pa•g•e•1•5 


Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 


Campus 
9:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.: University Libraries Philosophy And Theology Booksale, Li­brary Concourse 
11:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Economics Dept. Labor Workshop, "Deregulation, Social Legislation and Positive Rights,'' by Simon Dekin, Room 131 Decio 
12:00 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center On Law And Government Lecture, ''Religious Liberty In The Courtroom,'' by William Ball, Room 121 Law School 
12:00: "The Pros And Cons Of Capital Punishment," by Sandy Bietila of the Il­linois Coalition Against the Death Penalty, in room 105 of the Law School 12i10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting Of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 12:15-1:00 p.m.: SMC Center For Spirituality, Spring, 1007 Series,' 'The Catholic Experience: Worldviews and a Community of Faith," by Margaret A. Cavanaugh, Stapleton Lounge, SMC 2:30-5:00 p.m.: Tax Assistance Program, Center For Social Concerns Coffee House 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, Lotus 1-2-3, Part 2, Room 108 Computing Center, limit 7 
3:30 p.m.: "The Philippine Revolution: Alternative To Violent Change," Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Charged Symmetry in Nucleon-Nucleon Scatter­ing," by Dr. Steven Vigdor, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 6:00p.m.: Meeting, Toastmasters Inter­national, Room 223 Hayes-Healy 6:30-7:00 p.m.: Sign-Ups for Bus Trip to Milwaukee for the Marquette~'Notre Dame basketball game, $20 7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari," and "Nos­feratu," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00-8:30 p.m.: SMC Alcohol Awareness Week Lecture, "They Are Cheap, They Are Legal, and They Are Lethal, " Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
7:30 
p.m.: Basketball, ND vs. DePaul, ACC 7:30p.m.: Basketball, SMC vs. Valparaiso University, Angela Athletic Facility 

7:30 
p.m.: Art Lecture, "Americans In 


Paris: American Impressionism," by Elizabeth Milroy, Annenberg Auditorium 8:00p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, "The Religious Founda­tions of Education in Southern Slave So­ciety," by Prof. Eugene Genovese, Room 122 Hayes-Healy 
8:00p.m.: Movie, "The Green Wall," Cen­ter For Social Concerns 8:00p.m.: Meeting, ND-SMC Charity Ball, LaFortune Little Theatre 
8: 10 p.m.: A Readers Theatre Production of "The Fifth Sun," Washington Hall 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Stuffed Pork Chops Shells With Italian M.eat Sauce Sesame Baked Cod Veal Parmesan Grinder on Kaiser Roll 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Pork Chops Beef and Vegetable Stir Fry Fettucine Carbonara Deli Bar 
"Have you noticed that? ... You get stuck swinging behind some guy who's just lollygagging along, and sure enough he'll be wearin' a hat on the back of his head." 
The Daily Cros~ord 
ACROSS 1 Before sphere 5 Thinks 

10 Campus area 
for short 14 Author Paton 15 "Dallas" name 16 Biblical 
preposition 17 Handy man? 20 Singing group 
of yore 21 Came up 22 Forest unit 23 Dillon or Helm 25 Sumatra 
natives 28 Atmosphere: 
pref. 29 Doctors' gp. 32 Jai­33 Build 34 La-, Bolivia 35 Handy man? 39 "-Town" 40 Comforts 41 Biblical weed 42 Sta. 43 Author Wiesel 44 Pungent bulb 46 Arabian gulf 47 Solo 48 To pieces 51 Struggles 55 Man on the 
way up? 58 Br. composer 59 Dress form 60 Slaughter of 
baseball 61 Actual 62 Of the cheek 63 Negatives 
DOWN 1 Mecca pilgrim: 
var. 2 Dash 3 Connie or Ted 4 Splotch 5 Writer Daniel 
and family 6 Happify 7 Building 
wings 8 Wire measure 9 Coterie 


C1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/25/87All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
SAB presents : 
.r 
Today and Tomorrow 
Maltese Falcon 7, 9, 11 pm Friday and Saturday $1.00 
9 12 Weeks 7, 9:15, 11:30 EG Auditorium 
.J,$1.50 ABSOLUTELY NO ALCOHOL ALLOWED 


.. 
Sign... ups today 3pm...5pm Basement of LaFortune DEADLINE IS FRIDAY! 
~-~-·--­
-~-~ ---~---------------------.... 
Wednesday, February 25, 1987-page 16 


\. 
r·
.I 
l 
J 

The Observeli Jeff Otto Notre Dame forward Sandy Botham hits on two of her 14 points in last night's 82-66 Irish rout of Northern Illinois. The win upped the Irish season record to 9-15. Details appear at right. 
ND, DePaul ring in 'Independent's Day' 
Notre Dame vs. DePaul. College basketball's Indepen­dent's Day. 
The Irish and Blue Demons are part of a dying breed, the few, the proud, the independents. 
Of course these teams are no ordinary independents, no 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

siree. They have ceremoniously dubbed themselves, along with Marquette and Dayton, the Great Independents. In the reality of college basketball, they're more like the last of the Mohicans. 
With little regard for other independents, the Great In­dependents have gone about discussing a possible confer­ence. The vote is almost split among the four, however, with Notre Dame as the most vocal member disdaining the notion of the need for a conference. 
The Irish feel the current contract among the indepen­dents calling for a home-and-home with each of the others, a three-year deal which ends after this season, provides them with a conference-rivalry atmosphere without bin­ding them to conference restrictions. Kind of like great coffee taste without the caffeine. 
But this attitude helps only Notre Dame and DePaul. Both teams have some notable opponents dotting their schedules to cover for some of the less-than-awe-inspiring ones. Marquette and Dayton, however, get lost in the shuffle. 
They have not been as successful in luring top-notch conference foes to their schedules. Independents face the greatest difficulty, with many holes to fill and limited openings on conference teams' agendas. While Notre Dame and DePaul can attract teams by virtue of their high rankings in the recent past, teams like Marquette and Dayton slowly drift a little farther down the list. 
Once this trend starts, it is hard to stop. Great intersec­tional games on national television have enormous appeal with recruits, and consequently, the rich do get richer. This snowballing effect lands the top independents in the NCAA Tournament consistently, and the next echelon bat­tling with winners of the ECAC Metro, South, North and, whatever other direction they think of, for the precious few remaining tournament spots. 
see ITEMS, page 12 


Irish jump out to big lead, hold on to paste UNI, 82-66, in ACC finale 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Thanks to a quick start, the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team overwhelmed the Huskies of Northern Illinois 82­66 last night at the ACC. 
The Irish, in improving their record to 9-15 on the season, played one of their best games of the season, using their ad­vantages and following their game plan to precision. 
Two quick baskets by Diondra Toney and Annie Schwartz put the Irish up 4-0, and head coach Mary DiStanis­lao's team never looked back. Every Notre Dame starter had scored by the time just over five minutes had elapsed in the first half, and the Irish built up a 17-point lead (27-10) with 
11:07 left before the intermis­sion. That big lead was estab­lished thanks to an 11-point run midway through the half. 
The Huskies, however, managed to keep the game respectable, trading baskets with the Irish through the latter part of the first period and get­ting the Irish lead down to 13 at the break. The tough Notre Dame defense held the Huskies to .400 shooting in the first half and .405 (30-of-74) for the game. 
Another Irish run, this time for 10 points, put them ahead 57-34 with 14:06left in the g,ame to bury Northern Illinois' chances at a comeback. Notre Dame repeatedly worked to get good shots from the open players, keeping the Huskies behind by double figures throughout the second half. 
The victory was sweet revenge for the Irish, who lost 81-71 to Northern Illinois on January 13. What made last night's game different from that of five weeks ago? 
"The girls made the decision to come out and play the best game they could,'' said DiS­tanislao. "We are a different team now because we are going into the games with a plan. We are anticipating the game we want to play, rather than just reacting to the other team's plan." 
Irish sophomore forward Heidi Bunek played a nearly flawless game, shooting 9-of-16 from the floor and 9-of-11 from the free-throw stripe for a team-high 27 points. That sum was two short of her career high of 29 set earlier this season. She also pulled down 16 rebounds, tying her personal best, which also ties the Notre Dame single-game record. 
"Heidi just keeps playing well for us," said DiStanislao. "She continues to put herself into the right position to get the ball, both to score and to get the boards. She and (center Sandy) Botham are getting more and more comfortable playing together.'' 
Notre Dame continued to ex­ploit its height advantage against opponents, getting 14 points from 6-3 Annie Schwartz and 14 points and 13 rebounds from the 6-2 Botham. 
"We've played them before," said DiStanislao. "We knew we had to get the ball to our big girls on the reverse. That was our plan, and it worked." 
The triple towers also played well defensively, holding the tallest Huskie player, 6-1 Tammy Hinchee, to just six points, almost 10 below her season average. 
Toney also chipped in 14 points for the Irish, shooting 6­of-10 from the floor and 2-of-2 from the line. Notre Dame guard Mary Gavin had 9 assists and six rebounds for the home team. 
As a team, the Irish shot .535 from the field, slowing down in 
see HUSKIES, page 14 

The Observei/'Greg Kohs 
Gary Voce soars high, but too late, as the ball in a 7:30 contest with fourth-ranked DePaul. rolls around the rim in last weekend's Notre Details of tonight's showdown can be found in Dame upset over Duke at the ACC. Tonight the Irish Extra inside. Voce and the Irish will be at it again-this time 
r--~--~·----~----------~--------------------~--------­
---~-------------~-------­
-. ­
~~-­
Last meeting Time 
7:30 DePaul 59, Notre Dame 54 Jan. 10, 1987 
~ 
vs.
Rankings TV and Radio 
DePaul 4th (AP) WGN, WNDU-TV Notre Dame 24th (USA Today) 

WNDU-AM, WSBT-AM 


DePaul wednesday, February25,t987 




The Observer Royal turns raw skills into team leadership 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 
Donald Royal, the raw talent, has evolved into Donald Royal, the com­plete player. Notre Dame's senior for­ward currently leads the Irish in scoring (14.7) and rebounding (6.5) and remains as one of the team's top defenders. The road from green fresh­man to savvy senior has been a consis­tent and steady trip for Royal. 
Adding components to his game in bits and pieces, Royal has complemented his strong inside game with great im­provements in his free throw shooting and defense. In his final season, he has also helped his offensive firepower with a consistent jump shot, one that Head Coach Digger Phelps credits with opening up the offensive game for the Irish. 
"He's been the type of guy that can make things happen for us inside," Phelps says. "But the thing we've let him do lately, because he's ready to do it, is go outside, facing the basket, and shoot the jump shot. That adds a whole new dimension to our offense, opening all kinds of things up and that causes a lot of problems for the other team." 
The addition of the outside game has increased comparisons to former Irish and current NBA star Orlando Wool­ridge, whose development took a path similar to Royal's. But Royal compares himself to a more recent former Irish star, Ken Barlow. 

''A lot of people say I remind them of Kenny and me along the same way, Woolridge, but it's odd because I have starting us out slow and then giving us never even met him," Royal says. "It more responsibility. It seems we have seems as though (Phelps) brought both been accomplishing the same things, like winning the Most-Improved Player award our sophomore years." 
But it took a while for Royal to get people's attention. He led St. Augustine High School in New Orleans to a 35-0 record and the Louisiana state cham­pionship his senior year, but his statis­tics, 12.7 points and 14.2 rebounds per game, did not turn a lot of heads. But Gary Brokaw, then an Irish assistant, found him in an AAU summer league and he saw what Royal believed he had all along, major-college potential. 
"I played against most of the nationally-known guys and I played pretty well against them," the 6-8, 210­pound senior says. "I knew I belonged with them." 
Royal has proved that with Irish. He arrived for good in the second half of his sophomore campaign. Royal started the last 16 games and finished averaging 9.1 points and 5.5 rebounds a game. 
Royal increased his value as a junior, by continuing to raise his scoring (10.6), and joining Dolan for Notre Dame's top defender award. In his senior year, Royal (who is still just 20 years old) has continued to round out his game. His consistent inside production, im­proving outside game, and thunder­dunks remain, but, in addition to his steady statistical improvement, Royal has emerged as a strong leader, sharing co-captain's status with Scott 
see ROYAL, page 4 

ND seeks next ACC victim with 'classic' against DePaul 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Sports Writer 
Once again a nationally-ranked bas­ketball team comes to Notre Dame, hoping to depart unscathed. Twice this month the Irish have had such visitors, but North Carolina and Duke both discovered the perils of the ACC and left with one more in the loss column. This time the chal­lenge is closer to home. 
Tonight, fourth-ranked DePaul brings its show to town, sporting a 25-1 record and a nine-game winning streak. The Blue Demons feature two legitimate all-America candi­dates in senior forward Dallas Com­egys and sophomore playmaker Rod Strickland. In DePaul's win over Georgia Tech Saturday, Comegys and Strickland both registered per­sonal scoring bests with 33 and 28 points, respectively, leading the Blue Demons to a 84-67 victory. 
The Notre Dame-DePaul series has provided for one of the most il­lustrious rivalries in the Midwest, dating back to the first meeting in 1912. The Irish hold a 43-31 edge in the series, but the most recent game is the one on the mind of Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. 
"What we remember about the DePaul game is being up one with a minute to go," said Phelps, "and that is where we want to pick up." 
The game Phelps is referring to is Notre Dame's 59-54 loss to the Blue Demons on January 10 in Chicago. In that contest, the lead changed 18 times before DePaul scored seven points in the final minute and hung on to keep their 12-0 record un­blemished. 
The Blue Demons are currently 25-1, while the Irish pulled out a 57-56 vic­tory over Utah on Saturday to bring their record to 17-7. This win came without Notre Dame's outside scoring threats Scott Hicks and Sean Connor. Both players resumed prac­tice on Monday and are expected to 
see DePAUL, page 4 

. ... . . ' . . 

-~-~ -~~ ~----~---­
Irish Extra, page 4 . 

Royal 
continued/rom page 1 
Hicks. 
''My role this year is as a leader," he says. "I have to go out there and perform every game. The younger guys are looking at me and Scotty and if we go at it with less than a total effort, then they'll go about it the same way." 
And that leadership role has turned him from pupil to teacher for the next in line, Tony Jackson, whom Phelps has compared to the Woolridge-Barlow-Royalline. 
"I'm just trying to keep his con­fidence up and let him know I went through the same things," Royal explains. "We've all been through it, so I just let him know that when his turn comes, he's got to suck it up and make the best of it.'' 
Tonight's Matchups 
PLAYER HT WT G FG-FGAG Rivers 6·0 180 24 113-261 Strickland 6-3 170 25 159-269 
G Hicks 6-3 190 23 104-222 Edwards 6-3 200 26 153-288 
C Voce 6-9 250 24 39-67 Comegys 6-9 205 26 162·310 
F Royal 6-8 210 20 85-149 Golden 6·9 205 26 33-90 
F 
Stevenson 6-6 210 24 96-200 Greene 6·4 190 26 104-223 
Royal has also been trying to make the best of his upcoming opportunities. The government major has done his interviews prior to the season and says he is thankful for the variety of careers Notre Dame has made available to him. 
"That's the best thing about this university and our basket­ball program," he says. "The coaches make things very real­istic so you know there are other avenues. If I have to work in front of a desk, I'm ready." 
But Royal would like to give pro basketball a shot first. With the aid of trainer Skip Meyer, Royal has recovered from a calf injury that caused him to miss four games, and his prospects of playing in the NBA are now better than ever. 
"I'm going to get the opportu­nity, and t-hat's all I can ask," he says. " From there, it's up to me. It's always been a dream of mine to play in the NBA, and I'll have the oppor-
P<:T  3PT-3PA  PCT  FT·FTA  
.433  12-37  .324  100·120  
.591  6-9  .667  88·149  
.468  0-6  .000  39-62  
.531  13-25  .520  52-65  
.513  0-0  .000  31-42  
.523  Q-1  .000  131-170  
.570  0-0  .000  124-155  
.367  0-0  .000  14-19  
.480  1-4  .250  53-68  
.466  6-22  .273  69-103  

Notre Dame 24 55M153 .478 3().88 .341 393-525 DePaul 26 633-1516 .511 59-125 .472 407-605 
tunity to prove I can play there." 
Phelps says Royal can be very successful in the pro ranks if he enters the proper situation. 
"He'll be a sleeper in the draft," Phelps says. "He's going to be one of those guys that if the right team will take him, he's going to make it for a long time, because he funda­mentally sound and he's been through the wars." 
But before he attempts to enter the wars for pay, Royal will lead the Irish, a team he says he is proud of, down the home stretch. 
"The teams before this year were expected to win, but this year we surprised a lot of people," he says. "When people looked at the schedule at the beginning of the year, they already marked down losses to North Carolina and Duke before we even played. This team is full of surprises." 
PCT  REB·AVG  PF·D  PTS·AVG  
.833  93-3.9  59-1  340-14.2  
.591  99-4.0  46·1  412-16.5  
.629  99-4.3  56-1  247-10.7  
.800  135-5.2  48·0  371·14.3  
.738  148-6.2  62-2  111·4.6  
.771  198-7.6  61-0  455-17.5  
.800  130-6.5  69·5  294-14.7  
.737  79-3.0  63-2  80-3.1  
.779  96-4.0  34·1.  246-10.3  
.670  121·4.7  37·0  283-10.9  
.749  787·32.8  405--10  1525-63.5  
.673  1011·38.9  387-6  2014-77.5  



DePaul 
continuedfrom page 1 
return to the lineup for tonight's game. 
The Irish will have their hands full with Comegys and Strick­land. Comegys, who has asserted himself as DePaul's leader in his final season, is averaging 17.5 points and 7.6 rebounds a game. Strickland · led the Blue Demons last season as a freshman in scoring (14.1 points), assists, steals and minutes played. The flashy point guard is scoring 
16.5 points per outing this year while running the fast-paced and high-scoring DePaul of­fense. 
"Comegys has got a great 
chance to be player of the year," said Phelps. "You can talk about Alford and Kenny Smith but when it comes to big guys, nobody has done what Comegys has in situations where he is surrounded with de­fensive pressure. Yet, he still gets to the boards and scores · his points. He's got to go in the first five picks of the first round in the NBA because he is so flexible." 
"Strickland as a sophomore has taken that team to where they have the confidence to do the things that have to be done," added Phelps. · 
But neither of these two big guns are the key to DePaul's outstanding season, according to Phelps. This designation goes to junior guard Kevin Ed­wards, a junior college trans­fer. 
''They've got the ingredients of a great cake, and he puts the icing on that cake that just not be known until the Irish and Blue Demons play forty minutes (or more) of basket­ball tonight. But with the excel­lent play of both teams recently and the magic generated in the ACC during big games this season, one would tend to agree with the words of a Phelps statement in his Monday press conference. 
"It'll be a classic in the tradi­tion of Notre Dame basket­ball." 
makes it look perfect," said Phelps of Edwards. "That's the guy who gets the key jumps shots, the key steal or shuts someone down. Or he gets a rebound and the next thing you know Comegys will get six straight points or Strickland will take off in transition. But it all started because Edwards got the steal or the rebound. Some of those things don't get into the box scores." 
"I think DePaul is playing al­most near perfection," said Phelps. "They just have a lot 
Time Capsule 
of confidence. You take Nevada-Las Vegas, Indiana, North Carolina and DePaul. These are the teams that could be ending up in the final eight. DePaul has a chance to go to the Final Four, and that's a credit to (Blue Demon head coach) Joey (Meyer), who in my opinion should be coach of the year." 
Since replacing his father Ray, the DePaul coaching legend who won 724 games as DePaul's head coach from 1942 to 1984, Joey Meyer has coached the Blue Demons to three-straight NCAA Tourna­ment appearances. He seemed to be lingering in his father's shadow, however, until this season. There -should be no more doubts that he is the one · calling the shots now. And evi­dently his shots, like those of his players, are on target. 
Notre Dame's target is simple to detect -another major upset at home against a highly­ranked foe. The final score will 
· 



Irish knock off No.1 Blue Demons 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
On the surface, Notre Dame big man Orlando Woolridge stopped DePaul's bid for a perfect season in February of 1980, by sinking a pair of free throws with 19 seconds left in the second overtime period. 
But if ever a game at the ACC was won by the famed "Sixth Man," more-commonly known as the Notre Dame crowd, it was this 76-74 victory. 
Irish guard Bill Hanzlik tied the contest at 74-74 with 2:30 left to play in the second extra segment and rebounded a miss by the Blue Demons' Terry Cummings with the clock showing 1:49. 
That's when Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, the then 20-5 Irish and that big Sixth Man made their move. 
Phelps, in an effort to keep DePaul's quick~handed guard Clyde Bradshaw away from the ball and another steal, inverted his team's offense against Demon coach Ray Meyer's man-to-man defense. Notre Dame guard Rich Branning took Bradshaw into the corner on the baseline, as Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson -the front line -moved out to handle the ball. 
"We're pretty good ballhandlers," said Tripucka, who hit 11-of-18 shots and led the game in scoring, along with DePaul's Mark Aguirre, with 28. "We felt we could handle the ball man-to-man against their center and forwards. 
Besides, Clyde deserved to be buried in the corner because he gives us so much trouble." 
With the clock ticking down under a minute, Meyer and his assistants were calling for Bradshaw to switch and go out to play defense in the backcourt, but he was not able to hear the instructions over the capacity crowd of 11,345. 
"We kept calling for Clyde to switch," said Assistant Coach Joey Meyer, "but Clyde couldn't here because of the crowd noise.'' 
With Bradshaw out of swiping range, Cummings commit­ted his fifth foul against Woolridge and Notre Dame took 
the lead. 
James Mitchem, playing with a taped, broken left hand, fired a 20-footer for the Demons with time running out, and Bradshaw missed with a desperation shot off the rebound. 
Once again, a number-one team had fallen to Notre Dame at the ACC, and the crowd responded with chants of "25 and one, 25 and one," the Blue Demons' updated record. 
"The electricity was here all week," Phelps said. "Don't 
ever come in here undefeated or No. 1 against Notre 
Dame." 


