ND 
COLU 
Neil Diamond -pa~e 7 

· the independent student newspaper sen·ing 'otre Dam~ and ~aint \fa~·~ · 

The Observer!Brian Mast
Bright student 
Junior Tim Malone maximized the use of his the sun. This scene is becoming more common time on Wednesday by studying and enjoying as students approach finals and summer. 

FDN says American slain in fight 
The Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras­An American engineer killed in northern Nicaragua was caught in a firefight between rebel fighters and Sandinista militia, the largest U.S.­supported Contra force said Wednesday. 
The account contradicted Nicaraguan statements that 27­year-old Benjamin Ernest Linder, of Portland, Ore., was singled out by the Contras and slain. 
The Nicaraguan Democratic Force, or FDN, said that it held the leftist government of Nicaragua responsible for the death of the first American to die in Nicaragua's civil war. Nicaragua said the U.S. gov­ernment was to blame for sup­porting the Contras. 
"The death of Linder was produced in the midst of a firefight between one of our patrols and a group of militia of the Sandinista army, which accompanied the U.S. citizen," the FDN said in a statement released in Tegucigalpa. 
Linder's body on Wednesday was in Matagalpa, a Nicaraguan provincial capital, where a ceremony was held in his honor. 
American colleagues of the Oregon engineer joined Sandi­nista officials in blaming the Reagan administration for his death. 
The Contras' statement said Linder was killed Tuesday near La Camaleona, located about 45 miles from the Honduran border. 


Board to consider divestment issue 
By MARK PANKOWSKI and JIM RILEY Staff Reporters 
One week after this Friday's 
planned protest against apar­
theid and racism, the Univer­
sity Board of Trustees will dis­
cuss whether to divest from 
companies doing business in 
South Africa. 
A recent request by the Rev. 
Leon Sullivan, however, has 
decreased the likelihood of the 
board's deciding to divest at 
next week's meeting. 
On May 7, 8 and 9, the trus­tees are ~cheduled to discuss the University's investment policy. 
''I hope the Board of Trustees will realize the situation (in South Africa) has deteriorated, and that the time has come to implement the policy (to divest)," said Margarita Rose, chairperson of the Anti­Apartheid Network. 
In November, the Board of Trustees decided it would com­pletely reassess Notre Dame's investment policy at its spring meeting. 
By then the trustees expected to know whether Sullivan would call for American col­leges and universities to divest. 
Earlier this month, however, Sullivan asked all colleges and universities that followed his principles to postpone any di­vestment decisions until after his press conference on June 1. 

At that press conference, Sul­livan said he will announce whether universities should divest their holdings from firms doing business in South Africa. 
"I think we'll want to wait until after June 1," said Father Oliver Williams, a member ol 
the Board's ad hoc committeE 
on South African investments. 
Williams stressed, however 
that this was his opinion an< 
not necessarily the board's. 

Sullivan will make his June 1 
announcement after travelling 
to South Mrica, where he'll 
meet with black union leaders 
to discuss what effect the 
withdrawal of American busi­
nesses would have on South 
Africa. 
In an effort to influence the trustees' decision, several groups are sponsoring a protest at 3:15p.m. Friday on the steps of the Administration Building. 
Rose said she hopes between 400 and 500 people show up at the protest, which will take place rain or shine. 
The rally is sponsored by stu­dent government, Anti­Apartheid Network, Black Cul­tural Arts Council, Women United for Justice and Peace, Notre Dame NAACP and the Peace Institute. 
Besides influencing the board's divestment decision, the protest is intended to focus attention on racism in the United States, she said. 
Notre Dame is not immune from the problem of racism, she said. 
"It's not been anything like cross burnings or lynchings," said Rose. She's heard, however, of cases where a black student has gone to a party, and unlike white stu­dents, has been asked to show an I.D. card to prove he's from Notre Dame. 
Rose also cited reports of 
see TRUSTEES, pageS 

House defies president; approves trade surplus plan 
The Associated Press presidentially decreed sanc­
tions. 

WASHINGTON -The House Besides Japan, countries that defied a presidential veto run sufficient surpluses to be threat Wednesday and nar­affected include West Ger­rowly approved major legisla­many, Taiwan, South Korea, tion to force Japan and other Italy, Hong Kong and Brazil. countries to end "excess and But Hong Kong would not be unwarranted" trade surpluses liable for sanctions under the or face stringent U.S. sanc­legislation, Gephardt said. tions. "I've been all over this 
The House voted, 218-214, to country in the last few months attach the plan to a sweeping, and I think we're beginning to 900-page trade bill after its be in a state of decline," said sponsor, Rep. Richard Gep­Gephardt, an aspirant for the hardt, D-Mo., urged law­presidency. "Wages are begin­makers to adopt "a new way, ning to decline in this country, a tougher way," to fight the well-paying jobs are being lost record $166 billion trade deficit to countries abroad." and related job losses in some There were loud cheers from industries. the floor, however, when Rep. 
Under Gephardt's measure, Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., countries with "excess and un­spoke against the measure and warranted" trade surpluses called instead for ''a bill so with the United States would be tough the Japanese can't ignore j forced to eliminate them or it and so fair the president has face 10 percent annual reduc­to sign it." tions enforced through 
Activist says blacks suffering 'backlash' 
By SANDY CERIMELE nomic base necessary for The U.S., according to liberalism and significant Baraka, is considered the
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

social ability." first liberated colonial state 
Renowned playwright, The rationale for this ex­made powerful by the rob­poet and political activist, ploitation has consistently bery and murder of op­Dr. Amiri Bar aka, called for been the assumption of the pressed countries. democracy and the right to inferiority of the black race, ''Americans are the most ar­self-determination for all according to Baraka. "The rogant and ignorant people Americans living in a world exploitation began with in the world. They don't 
of white supremacy in a lec­
realize that the U.S. cannot ture in the Center for Social survive without full Concerns Wednesday. democracy and self-
Speaking on, "The Black dermination. This means all Liberation Movement in the citizens who are victims of 1960s: How far have we this dangerous tribalism," really come?" Baraka said said Baraka. a "backlash" has resulted in He said the democracy 
every attempt for progress and integration we claim to in achieving equality made have achieved in America is by blacks. not founded in any real 
''We get a backlash every evidence. Black citizens time we push up, just like have been discriminated 
our parents gave us as against in such areas as edu­children every time we cation and politics, living made a push up to something Dr. Amiri Bar aka predominantly in the .South they didn't like," he said. and in only 26 major U.S. 
He added that this back­Western dominance and cities. lash is a result of the white U.S. imperialism of the so­"Minority scholarships supremacy and "comes with called uncivilized Third 
see BACKLASH, page 5

the disappearance of an eco-World," he said. 


The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 2 
In Brief 
Accused of teaching religion in his classroom, a sci­ence teacher promises to appeal the Department of Edu­cation's decision to uphold a school board's decision to fire him. The superintendent said the district had received complaints .about R~od~s' teaching of religion during his 23 years With the district and had warned him to stop discussing religion during lectures. When Rhodes said he could not teach without doing so, however, the board took action. Rhodes said Tuesday he will appeal to Common­wealth Court. -Associated Press 


Of Interest 
1988 An Tostal chairman applications are available at the secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Completed applications are due in the An Tos­tal office by 5 p.m. on Monday. -The Observer 
The Snite Museum Student Liason Committee will hold its final meeting and officer elections for next year today at 4 p.m. at the Snite. All new members are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Artist Paul Soldner will speak about art and contemporary art tonight at 8 in the library auditorium. His work over the past 30 years has contributed to the increasing prominence of ceramic art in the world of fine art. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
"From Rococo to Revolution: Art in 18th Century Europe" is the title of a lecture to be given by Robert Eskridge of the Art Institute of Chicago in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum at 7:30 p.m. Admission is free for students. -The Observer 
Overseas Development Network general meeting will be held tonight at 6 in the Center for Social Concerns. The Great Hunger Cleanup meeting will follow at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
Mandatory Charity Ball meeting for all committee persons who were involved in this year's Charity Ball will be held tonight at 8:30 in the lobby of LaFortune. Danny Harrison will speak about plans for next year. Please bring weekly journals of information which were used during the Ball's preparation. -The Ob­server 
OH HENRY T-shirt winners maypickupshirts at the first floor information desk in LaFortune from today until Saturday. -The Observer 
Geographic student clubs sponsoring baggage trucks must register with the Student Activities Office, 301 LaFortune, by Monday. -The Observer 
A meeting for all participants in Notre Dame excavations at Oppido-Manertina will be held Thursday at 5 p.m., Room 151 Decio. The chairman of the department of modern and classical languages, David Ladouceur, has made available a limited amount of financial aid to be allocated to students with need who are participating in the dig. For information contact Ladouceur. -The Observer 


Weather 
When shall we three meet again? In thunder, lightening or in rain ... Today it. shall.be in s.un, with a high near 65. Fair tomght with lows in the upper 30s. -The Observer 



Design Editor ..................... Rob Luxem Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg Deaign Ani.ttant ............... Lisa Tugman Typilt1.. ... . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. ... .. Colleen Foy Typeaetten ........................... Jose Novas ............................................ Jim Winkler .................................. Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor............. . Jane Kravcik News Editor ......................... Chris Julka SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor ................... Racheal Jarosh Ad Deaign ....................... David Culligan Sport• Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen Photographer.................. Paul Oeschger Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Tim Brennan Btl8ineu Editor .................. Steve Claeys Viewpoint Layout .......... Rachael O'Hara Btl8iness Layout .. .. .. .. . . Katy Kronenberg 
Accent Copy Editor ....... Kath'' Scarbeck 
l'lle OINener,(USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during ex.m and vacation periods. 11w Olllerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing T• Obsener, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
11lr <MIIerYer is a member of n.e AIIGdaled Pras. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 



The perils of hall storage are not worth the hassle 
Yes, it's that time of year again. It's time for finals. For final parties. For finals parties. And moving out of those wonderful dorm rooms. The seniors are lucky enough to avoid the conse­quences of moving out and back into a building three months later. For the rest of us, summer means only one thing. 
Storage. (Screams, thunder and lightning, if this were TV) 
Have any of you underclassmen ever really seen, with your own eyes, what happens to all that stuff that four or five semi-drunk guys from your dorm, or from some other dorm if you're female, pick up and throw into a disreputable­looking rental truck'? "Sure, they put it in storage," you say. Sure, and nuclear bombs just spread radiation. 
Until last summer, I had several theories on where stored materials actually ended up. The coal pits to the north of Notre Dame always struck me as a likely spot for dorm storage. Or maybe when they say they're storing in a ware­house, they really mean an abandoned ware­house. One with rats. Hungry rats. 
Wait until the stuff comes back. If it does, it will most likely be dented, and possibly be snapped in half. 
I had seen the condition in which others had 

gotten their stuff back at the beginning of fresh­
man year, so I got together with a few guys in 
my section at the end of the year and we all 
split a small storage area. We rented our own 
truck and loaded our own stuff. It only took two 
trips, and it worked out to be only marginally 
cheaper than going through hall storage. 
But at least I got my things back in one piece. 
Contrast that with the absolutely monstrous 

pile of "stored" (read "thrown in a pile in a 
warehouse") goods we saw in the same place 
we stored our things. 
Standard ND boxes were stacked 18 boxes 

high. The bottom ones looked an inch or two 
shorter than they're supposed to. Hope there 
wasn't any glassware in those. 
Couches were piled only twelve high. The bot­

tom one had literally snapped in half. Instead 
of looking like an ''L'', the couch looked like an 
"I" on its side. Maybe it was a recliner. It is 
now. 
Carpets were kind of mixed in with the rest 

of the goods. They resembled spaghetti. I 
wonder what kind of molds grow in carpet. Did 
you ever wonder what those things were in the 
carpet when you unrolled it in the fall after 
storage? They sure weren't there in the spring, 

Mark Mclaughlin 


Projects Manager ·'· 
~­
Pt:>tRIER 

you thought. But is it really your carpet anyway? 
We saw half a bicycle sticking out of the top 'Jf the pile. We couldn't find the other half. Things did seem to have an alarming tendency to snap in half in this storage pile. 
I refuse to conjecture where the stereo speakers and other valuables were hidden. Per­haps they were buried underneath the couches to discourage thieves from taking them. 
By the way, I have it from a reliable source that many storage crews are provided free lunch and a case of beer besides. Hey, if you stored your furniture yourself, you could be en­joying that free case of beer and free lunch yourself. 
That was, of course, only one pile of dorm belongings I saw that fateful May afternoon. But it was enough to convince me never to send things to hall storage. Never ever ever. 
Personally, I don't know what I'm going to do with my stuff this year. Maybe I'll sell it all off and buy new stuff next year. I'll get all new furniture for my room and save myself a few bucks and the hassle of storage. But this solu­tion won't work for everyone, since if everyone sells off their furniture and carpets then no one will buy them. So you all keep sending your valuable furniture to hall storage. 
I'll take mine home to New Jersey. 
By the way, have a great summer and all that. I promise I won't say "I told you so" next fall. 

..mow~ ~Oir. oQQ OCCO~iOtm." Comein and Browse 
~l7 Lincolnway 
232~3354 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&'Saint Mary's Theatre production of 
.. ­

by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10pm Sunday May 3, at 3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony 
$4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 

The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 3 
Falwell says PTL will continue 
The Associated Press 
FORT MILL, S.C.-The Rev. Jerry Falwell took over as host of the "PTL club" television show Wednesday and assured donors the ministry would sur­vive, complying with "the rules and regulations of man as well as of God.'' 
Falwell characterized tur­moil in the ministry as God "cleaning house." 
PTL is trying to rebuild fol­lowing the resignation of Jim Bakker as its head and revela­tions shortly afterward of his sexual liaison with a church secretary in 1980. 
Disclosures about the mini­stry's finances, including pay­ment of $1.6 million in salary and bonuses to Bakker and his wife, Tammy, in 1986 have prompted the Internal Reve­nue Service and the South Carolina Tax Commission to challenge PTL's tax-exempt status and to seek millions of dollars in back taxes. 
The success of the $129 mil­lion ministry and Christian retreat, however, depends on donations, Falwell said. 
"Join us . . . to see to it this ministry never becomes just a page in history,'' he said during his first appearance as host of the program. 
Falwell said he would remain as host of the show until a per­manent replacement was found. But he said he did not know how long that would be. 
The syndicated talk-show, which features music and Christian entertainment, is the cornerstone of the ministry founded by Bakker and is its main fund-raiser. 
"I want to share heart-to­heart with you what happened here," Falwell, a fundamen­talist evangelist, said from his office in Lynchburg, Va. "I believe a sovereign God is cleaning house." 
The new PTL board chaired 
by Falwell agreed Tuesday to 
stop all payments to the Bak­
kers and to Jessica Hahn, a 
former church secretary who 
agreed to a settlement of 
$265,000 if she would remain 
quiet about the incident with 
Bakker. 
Bakker, a charismatic, turned the ministry over to Fal­well on March 19. The new board on Tuesday banished Bakker and his top aide, the Rev. Richard Dortch, from the PTL pulpit and agreed to inves­tigate allegations of homosexuality and wife-swapping at PTL. 
Falwell said Dortch would receive no remuneration, but he did not make clear whether that included severance pay. 
The majority of the board, with legal control of PTL's operations, ignored Bakker's plea to turn the ministry over to charismatics, with former 
U.S. interior Secretary James Watt as chairman. 
Church cracks down on national hoDiosexual group 
The Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Under a toughened Vatican policy, Roman Catholic efforts to curb organizational activi­ties of Catholic homosexuals are spreading in the United States. 
One after another, local chapters of the national group Dignity are being barred by diocesan bishops from meeting in Church facilities and priests told not to cooperate with the group. 
A few priests reportedly have resigned in protest, at least one of them publicly. 
"It's just appalling," said James Bussen of Chicago, national president of Dig­nity, an organization of about 5,000 gay and lesbian Catholics, with 110 chapters across the country. 
"We're disappointed in these diocesan decisions. We just wish the bishops would be brave and more steadfast in serving all people." 
Noting that a gradually in­creasing number of Ameri­can dioceses --eight so far ­have acted to prohibit worship services or meetings sponsored by Dig­nity in churches, Bussen said in a telephone inter­view, "It seems to be a domino effect so far. We're not sure why, or how to stop it." 
San Francisco's Arch­bishop John Quinn said the conflict with Dignity would be eased if it would "be more cooperative." 
"If they would not be at­tacking the moral teaching of the Church, we could all work together," he told the National Catholic Reporter. 

MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beaudful setting Is reminiscent or the Em·erald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
-Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
ae Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
-
Reasonably pnc gas/heat 
-"ed 
-
Earthtone Interiors Country Kitchens 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 

A Notre Dame student discussion of: 
APARTHEID IN SOUTH AFRICA RACISM IN THE UNITED STATES 
Student Gover11ment . 
Sponsored by: The Anti-Apartheid Network The Black Cultural Arts Council Women United for Justice and Peace 


The Peace Institute "BUILDING TOWARD The Notre Dame NAACP oNe sociETY" 
GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
WITHOUT MISSING ABEAT. 
The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the Army 

ing into professional music is-well, break­ing into professional music. So if you're looking for an oppor, tunity to turn your musical talent into a full,time perform­ing career, take a good look at the Army. 
It's not all parades and John Philip · Sousa. Army bands rock waltz and boogie as well as march, and they perform before concert au, diences as well as spectators. 
-..............._._\N_t_.th__a_n____~ 



}lallY For Justice 

Friday, May 1st 1987 


On the steps of the Administration Building 
~ 
A~~ 
3:15p.m. (before the picnic) 

also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
1v1ost important, you can expect a first,rate pro, fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help you pay for off, 

duty instruc­.. . tion, and if you qual, ifV, even help you repay your federally ,jnsu red student loans. 
If t, 

could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjatnin Harrison, IN 46216,5005. Or call toll free 1,8QO,USA-ARMY. 

ARMY BAND. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 


The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 4 

The Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Conserva­tive activist Carl "Spitz" Chan­nell pointed to former White House aide Oliver North as a fellow conspirator on Wednes­day as he pleaded guilty to the first criminal charge of the Iran-Contra affair. 
Channell was formally ac­cused of defrauding the govern­ment by telling contributors to his National Endowment for the Preservation of Liberty that their gifts would be tax de­ductible even though the money actually was used to provide military aid to the U.S.­backed Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
Channell pleaded guilty to a single count and agreed to cooperateinindependentcoun­sel Lawrence Walsh's investi­gation. 
Walsh's formal charge, 
Slain American 
Benjamin Linder, who witnesses said was killed by U.S.-backed 
rebels along with two Nicaraguans Tuesday is carried aboard a Soviet-made helicopter by Nicaraguan government soldiers. 
known as a criminal informa­tion, said Channell was in­volved with a government offi­cial, but the charge did not identify that official. 
However, when Channell was asked in court by U.S. district Judge Stanley Harris to name the persons with whom he con­spired, he replied simply, "Col. North, an official of the Na­tional Security Council." 
When Walsh aide Michael Bromwich was asked later if a similar charge could be ex­pected soon against North, he said, "We're not prepared to do that at this time." 
At the White House, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater declined to com­ment. "We're not investigating ourselves and I don't expect to elaborate on these kind of is­sues," Fitzwater said. 
Under the agreement Chan­nell entered into with Walsh, 


he was killed in an ambush. 


ELMO'S STEREO 
We buy and sell used home stereo equipment We also sell and install new car S\ereos 
US I 20 & 259 N. Logan St. No. 287-1720 
TOYOTA CLASS OF'S? 
1
-L-'·-1 ..,.. ~ POSSIBLE TO 
BUY OR LEASE A NEW TCIYIO,.~ WITH ND DOWN PAYMENT. 


~ ..• 
Gr8cluetes: If)'OIM rec:eived • wrifl8ble job offer, we want to get you 8nCI your.....,•­otrto • grwt _._with• ~Tayota • • s... IT ...... LE A --IT. Toyola Motor Ct1ldit Corpomion 81'1d)'OUI" per­
.... T" _.... --• licipMingToyotadeeler.,..now!Nkingilpoaibletoget ..c:ndit you delerwwithtwo Clasd '87 "quick epprov81''finllncing progrwna. 
Ifyou quMfy,you C8n blftorIMM• nMTO)'OU end glfl8rWiy nodown l)8ymlnt or MCUrily ----1 depositwil be required"Wiwt'a more,MCIII'I ~prciCIMI ljOUr lollnwillin2off1our5.•• Seeyour per1icipaling~ deelerfof progrwn apecifics. 
To8pply, you'l need. c:urrent drMir'llicenM8nd proofd ~Ofjob oftW.-You meyfind it helpfiA to bring 8long8f1Y t:.nk or credit a.rd llUIYiberL Once~ 8PI)rlMCI. youCllll ,_.)IOU!'choioedlhemolleu:iling lined,_CMend trucbT<¥'f8 Nl-allered. including 
...._Coro18 FX16GT·S Uftbeck. ----t 
So comeondcwwl toyour perticip8tingToyo~~~ dMier tod8y. Fill out.,8PPiica1iol ~ rod then b!NoriMieyournMTO>;tU-~or1Mse~mustbll~b>/June30.198I 
A,_C8rMf 8nd • newTowotL Who Could Nil. For Anything Morel 
CDII..D~ TOYOTA ~~ 


333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 
Friday, May 1 : Art Exhibit at 
O'Shaughnessy 
Mall 
come vote on 
student projects! 
Thursday, April 30, 8:00 p.m.: Library Auditorium Artist Paul Soldner will speak about Art and Contemporary Art. 




GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100lbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -~age 5 
Backlash 
continued from page 1 
are being eliminated, Black Studies programs of univer­sities are being undermined and belittled, black professors routinely denied tenure and equal opportunity programs made disfunctional or ineffec­tive with less and less money," he said. 
Baraka spoke of the political discrimination whereby of the 40 million black Americans, 
NO 'E,I 
only one has become a senator since the slaves were "freed" 120 years ago. 
''We are still victimized and abused and asking for our own Holocaust to be ended. The main obstruction to progress has been the tooth-and-claw animalism of our social struc­ture, which results from our simple inability to think," he said. 
He emphasized that accor­ding to the historical trend of white supremacy in America, "You can't teach a slave to 
it believes U.S. companies "are 
not influencing the dismantling 
of the system of apartheid," or 
if "circumstances warrant this 
action because of further 
deterioration of conditions in 
South Africa." 

A decision to divest at next 
week's trustees' meeting would 
be good for Notre Dame 
"because it would mean Notre 
Dame is taking the justice is­
sues in South Africa seriously,'' 
said Walshe. 

"Secondly, it would be im­portant because it would then be Notre Dame throwing its very considerable weight in Catholic circles behind the whole broader divestment issue and sanctions movement. 
"In other words, Notre Dame by itself is not going to change South Africa. Divestment by it­self is not going to change South Africa," he said. 
"But Notre Dame and the broader divestment move­ment, in cooperation with sanc­tions by Congress, in coopera­tion with black protests in South Africa . . . will bring the white regime to the negotiating table sooner rather than later.'' 

ATTENTION GRADUATES 
NEED A NEW CAR? 
GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan has your answer! 
Buy the car of your choice with no credit necessary 

-verifiable commi'tment for employment 
-90 days until first payment YOU WON'T 
FIND A BEnER 
BUY ••• 
ANYWHERE! 


1903 LINCOLNWAY EAST, SOUTH BEND liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 232-1111 or Toll Free from Elkhart 679-4978 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
Can youafford to gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,or MCAT? 
Probably not. Great grades alone may not be enoegh to impress the grad school cf your choice. 
Scores play a part. And tha(s how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if you've been out ofschool for a while and need a refresher, or even if you're fresh out of college, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take a chance with your career? 
~T· 6/


IKAPLAN°187 
STANlfY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL <»rnROD. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 
*CLASSES ql~1 
*INDEPENDENT STUDY 1 ~ q '~\.~\ 
*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS ~~f., 
*TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
View~_O_l_·n_t________
Thur-sday_, 1987--pa-ge6
Apr-il30_, 
Humility vital when addressing dissension 
Walk into the periodical center, go to the farthest shelves, by the window. On the fourth row from the front, on the second shelf down you will find Fidelity magazine. 
Robert Hennig 
guest column 

What is surprising is that the library has chosen to include Fidelity maga­zine in the theology section instead of the fiction area. 
Jerry Walls, in his inciteful opinion of three types of Catholics in last week's Observer mentions his reading of Fidelity as a source of his education in "the ways of the Roman Catholic Church." 
Unfortunately, people such as E. Mi­chael Jones, editor of Fidelity, do not truly know what it means to be ''Cat­holic." 
In the past few months, Jones has seen fit to criticize Notre Dame Theol­ogy PrGfessor Father Richard McBrien (December), University President­Elect Father Edward Malloy (January), and the recent debate be­tween Father Dan Maguire of Mar­quette and Notre Dame Theology Pro­fessor James Burtchaell (March). 
Curiously, quotations from The Ob­server appear often in criticisms made by Jones. 
It is also interesting that Jones' Fidelity and other publications such as "The Wanderer" insist upon chastising dissenters in the United States. For it is in their vigilance to point out the non­Catholicity of dissenters that their own non-Catholicity becomes apparent. 
But how can people who follow every doctrinal statement and every papal encyclical to the letter not be Catholic? 
Simply by the attitude of their obedience. An air of self-righteousness wholely inappropriate with the Chris­tian witness is the main distinguishing feature I have found among the "guar­dians of the faithful." 
Some letters to Fidelity magazine it­self testify to this truth. In the February issue, an anonymous 
reader addresses the point: ''You are revealing little-known scandals seen in your brothers (and Mother Church), the frightening positions of so-called Catholic press; but I don't perceive the .flens dico ('I say it with tears') attitude (Phil. 3:18), and you don't seem to ask your readers to join in a crusade of prayer for the malaise you show so forcefully.'' 
The issue here is not whether their challenges have any merit or not it is in the manner they perform their chal­lenge. It's not what they're saying, it's how they say it. 
It is so easy to point out the errors in others, but a more difficult task is to do so humbly and more difficult still to not do it at all. 
I am not defending those dissenters that normally come under the wrath -Curren, Kueng, et al. -but nor am I condemning them. 
I wonder if the Catholic church can encompass both viewpoints. Can the church have two sons wno nate each other? 
I really don't know. 

But we should try to reach some degree of understanding.
Maybe some dissenters fall of short doctrinal fidelity (a point made by simply calling them dissenters), but those who are so quick to criticize dis­play no sense of Catholic spirituality. 
What would Jones say to Jesus? 
Jesus consistently violated those le­gal norms of the day, attacking those "knitpickers" who pondered the minutest question of the Law while ig­noring their own spiritual needs. 
I really can sympathize with Jones. Some positions taken in the name of "progress" in the Catholic church are neither progressive nor Catholic. 
But if Jones and his ilk have a com­plaint, they should make it with a shade of sorrow at having to speak against their brothers and sisters in Christ. Compassion seems-to be an appropriate word. 
Unfortunately, I just don't see that. 
Robert Hennig is a sophomore Econom­ics major. 

P.O.BoxQ 

Respect for Memorial reason for reception 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps the reason why Archdruid Mark McLaughlin and his hooded friends received such a poor welcome during An Tostal has nothing to do with conformity, but rather with respect. 
The Peace Memorial is a monument to more than 500 fallen sons of Notre Dame, the victims of three wars. It serves as a reminder that the price of war is too great -even for "hypocriti­cal" and "conforming" students -to pay once again. To use the Peace Memorial for torch-burning, play-acting Druid idiocy is inexcusable as well as sicken­ing. Five-hundred Notre Dame men ­enough to fill Sorin, St. Ed's and Howard Hall to capacity -have made the ultimate sacrifice. They deser~ed better than hooded jokesters playing games on a monument recognizing their lives, bravery, and dedication. 
And by the way Mr. Archdruid, if you think your reception at certain halls 
Doonesbury 
was inhospitable, just imagine what it would be like in front of 500 families missing their sons of Notre Dame. 
George Keough Sorin Hall 

War criminal subject too self-righteous 
Dear Editor: 
Am I alone in viewing the extradition of Karl Linnas as a nauseating display of self-righteousness? I see two super­powers move against a feeble, old man for alleged acts of terror during World War II, which, if true, hardly compare to the acts of inhumanity perpetrated by both the Soviets and the Americans. Yet these bloodstained Soviets and Americans judge a grandfather, who, as a 22 year old subordinate in a Nazi prison camp, may have supervised the execution of 100 or more prisoners. They send him to the gallows and call it justice. But who, I wonder, secures justice in the name of the 15 million people, including my grandfather, who were systematically killed in Soviet 
prison camps before, during and after the losing team. Unfortunately for him Linnas' supposed acts of barbarity? the winners decide what is and what is Who troops about with ritheous indigna­not a war crime. They select who is and tion exclaiming that we must never for­who is not a war criminal. So, far from get that holocaust? Who is held ac­their tainted pedestal, the United States countable for America's ruthless and the Soviet Union can dish out their bombing of Dresden, Hiroshima and so called justice. Now, thanks to Nagasaki? Who will try the men re­America's new found faith in the Soviet sponsible for those crimes? And who, judicial system, Karl Linnas will hang as we continue must-never-forgetting while both the Soviet Union and the the Jewish Holocaust, even recollects United States bask in the glory of the heinous crimes of the Soviet Union righteousness. Personally, something and the United States? The answers about the whole affair makes me sick. are-practically no one. Hypocracy, Michael Tarm anyone? News Director The fact is, Karl Linnas played on WSND-Fm 
Viewpoint would like occassionally to highlight quotes from faculty members, students, and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly con­troversial, please send the quote to View­point. 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
''To a friend's house, the road is never long." 
Anonymous 

r 
r 
r 
General Board 

'l'he Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ...... ...................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager . ........................Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ............ ...................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton qf the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ..... ........................ Michael Naughton Controller.. ..................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 
Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 7 
Macbeth is ambitious 
The play reflects a united In the persons of Professors
DOUG ANDERSON 

effort of the whole department, Paul Rathburn and A.L. Soens. 
features writer 

an effort which pays off. An Rathburn is aiding the cast in 
Notre oame·s Department of especially tremendous job was analysing the text (the theatre 
Communication and Theatre is performed by the carpenters, people call him a "dramaturg") 
presenting Shakespeare's Mac­and everyone else involved in and Soens is choreographing 
beth through May 3. All perfor­creating the set. Master the fight scenes. 
mances are in Washington Carpenter Scott Moore, Master 
Hall, with Professor Reg Bain Electrician P.J. Gibbons, and In addition to the outside 
of Notre Dame's Departmant of their respective staffs have help the cast is receiving, they 
Communication and Theatre turned in a monumental effort, are also benefitting from the 
directing the play. creating a stage which reaches expertise of Will Neuert, a pro­
The title role is played by from the stage to the balcony fessor in Communication and Ted Manier, a South Bend na­of the theater. Theatre. Neuert has created a tive and Communications and The united effort Is also evi­multi-leveled stage which 
Theatre mcijor, and the role of dent in the energy and enthusi­reaches to the balcony of 
Lady Macbeth is performed by asm of the cast who which Washington Hall, and has 
Maureen Farley, a Finance makes the audience member pieces of the set jutting from 
mcijor. Briefly, Macbeth Is a forget he is watching a college the stage. This should serve to play centered around the lead play, performed by students Integrate the audience with the character's corrosion into evil who also must concentrate on action of the play. --a demise caused by his lust for class work. "I thought it went 
power and position. Director really well. I was impressed by It seems that this effort has 
Bain cautions us, though, that the work they put into it," not gone to waste. "Sales are Macbeth is more than a cold­quipped Megan Kearns, a Lewis going really well," says Tom blooded monster. "There is no 
junior. Barkes, the facility manager of 
tragedy if there is no moral The cast of the play has Washington Hall. "We probably element in the character of received help from a number won't sell out any perfor­Macbeth. At any point he could 
of professionals in preparation mance...(but) there is a possi­will be used only when all of and on Sunday, May 3 there choose good, and we see him 
for opening night. Kate Burke, bility on Friday and Saturday." the other seats are sold. Last will be a matinee at .3:10 P.M. 

tormented by his darker a vocal specialist from the Uni­There is no really bad seat In night's performance .was played Tickets are $6.00 for the main choices. This Macbeth is a versity of Iowa, came to work Washington Hall, but Barkes to about a three-fourths 
floor and $5.00 for the bal­human who gets caught up in on stage vocal techniques. pulled the "pole seats" --"They capacity crowd. cony, and are available at the the politics of blood," states Notre Dame's own English de­
are the favorite ones for lec­Performances through May 2 door or in advance at the Bain. 
partment has contributed help tures," claims Barkes, and they are scheduled for 8: 10 P.M., Washington Hall ticket office. 

Neil Diamond pleases packed ACC 
Diamond opened with 
MATT SITZER "Headed for the Future," the 
features writer title song from his latest al­
bum, but soon brought out 
P 
laying to a sold out ACC favorites like "September Morn" 
packed with enthusiastic and "Cherry, Cherry." He 
fans of all ages, Neil Diamond brought down the house with 
proved last night why he is three rousing reprises of the 
considered by many to be one classic "Sweet Caroline," the 
of the entertainment industry's last of which was belted out 
most dynamic performers. from atop the band's piano. 
This was more than just a Diamond played for the entire 
concert--it was an event. audience, constantly moving 
Diamond tends to attract an behind his band to sing to the 
older crowd to his concerts, fans seated behind the stage. It 
and last night was no excep­was as if the audience was en­
tion. There was an air of dig­gaged in a game of tug-of-war 
nity and order to this crowd as for Diamond's attention, with 
they waited for the show to each section applauding and 
begin. The air smelled of fine screaming as he moved closer. 
perfume and expensive scotch Diamond loved it, and his fans 
(quite a surprise to anyone who were ecstatic. 
has ever been to a "rock" con­
cert). Diamond was about 20 Later, Diamond excited the 
minutes late, but this only crowd with a spirited medley of 
served to build the intensity songs from his movie The Jazz 
until he and his band finally Singer, including the hits 
appeared at 8:25p.m. "Hello Again" and "Love on the Neil Diamond proved there is no generation gap. Diamond took the stage Rocks." Without a doubt, the amidst thick fog and an excit­most electric moment of the The rest of the concert was wrenching "You Don't Bring Me song's personal significance In ing display of green laser night was during the popular an emotional roller coaster Flowers" or "Heartlight," from an emotional monologue which beams. His stage was semi­"Coming to America." As the ride, as Diamond would bring the movie E. T. ended with Diamond saying, the audience to Its feet with "This is a song that will be with
circular, with flowers flanking houselights were turne'.J up, 
all sides. A small tiered runway and Diamond had everyone rousers like "Forever in Blue Diamond ended the concert me until I die." If Neil Diamond 
in front allowed him to move in standing and singing, a huge Jeans" and "Cracklin' Rosie," with "I Am, I Said," which is can continue to put on shows 
and out of a mob of American flag fell from the and then silence them instantly considered by many to be his like last night's, let's hope that 
adoring first row fans. rafters and draped the stage. with ballads such as the theme song. He explained the won't be for a long time. 

Last chance to vote for your strip! 
• Calm .... Hobbes MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM Rubes• 
I


r --------------------------------------------1
I Circle the cartoon of your choice ~~~ ....­
..--By Leigh Rubin 
1 and bring this ballot to either the · ~ I 1 La Fortune information desk or \ ~.. IIThe Observer office by 5 p.m. Friday. " ~ 1 
1 Name: Hall: 
I


IComments: -1 

-n--~~-~-~ ~,,~------------------_...___________.__..___________,....____ 
; I 
Ii Ii 



Business 
Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 8 
New tax laws to change amount students pay 
Although April15 has come and gone, this story should interest those who are going to the working 
.,
,· world, going to school or going bananas trying to 
'' 
H find a job. That's right -it's never too late to start planning for your 1987 taxes. Despite all the hype about the new lower rates, some students won't benefit much from the new federal income tax rules. Remember all those zeros on the old tax tables for income up to $2,480? They are gone. Now single people are taxed from the first dollar up to $1,800 at 11 percent and at 15 percent up to $16,800. The new laws really sock it to continuing stu­dents. Last year, the personal exemption was $1,080, but this year's increase to $1,900 is not as rosy as it seems. A student who is dependent on his parents could earn as much as $3,560 without paying any income tax in 1986, but the same guy will pay $183 this year. For the ones who decide to don business suits this year, the situation is more complex. People with $22,000 jobs may earn only half of that this 
Alex VonderHaar 
Business Bits 

year depending on when they start, putting them in lower brackets for 1987 than in 1988. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni will pay $2,677.50 on their first $17,850 and 28 percent after that in 1988. It's not as bad as it sounds because taxable income is figured after taking out the per­sonal exemption ($1,950 next year) and the stan­dard deduction. 
The standard deduction is new in this year's IRS booklet. Ifyou're not a dependent on your parents' return, you can take an extra $3,000 out of your 1988 income. 
Before you get too confused, we will pause for an example. 
Lucy the engineer got a great offer of $25,000 from Texas Instruments in Dallas. In 1988, her taxable income will be $20,050: 25,000 -1,950, (her personal exemption) -3,000 (the standard deduc­tion). Her tax, therefore, will be $2,677.50 plus a 
DOooo~~~KM~~oc~~~oo~~~~oo 
·I 
BLIND RIVER 
1 WITH
,{ 
'i I 
•J 
I Cube and the 
~r 
' 
I ) 
'! ·! Rh~hm Cats 
Tonight at Duke's Bistro 
(North of campus in the 
Georgetown Shopping Center) 
10:00 pm Rock and Blues to move your Shoes 
portion of the amount of money she makes over $17,850: 2,677.50 ¢ ..28 (2,200), or $3,293.50. What does this mean? It means that Lucy's biweekly paycheck loses $127 to the feds. 
Of course, all the new hotshot businessmen will be looking for the itemized deductions their par­ents received. Chances are good, however, that graduates will not itemize deductions unless they incurred huge expenses for moving, interest, medicine, and charitable contributions. 
How huge? Itemizing won't save a taxpayer a cent unless these expenses exceed the standard deduction of $2,480 in 1987 and $3,000 in 1988. 
So, what can a graduating senior do to reduce the tax bite? First, try to shift income like capital gains to the year of graduation when a student will be in a lower tax bracket. 
Second, if you pay interest to companies like Master Card or GMAC and you qualify to itemize, you should remember that the consumer interest deduction is being phased out: 65 percent of it can be claimed in 1987, but only 40 percent in 1988 and none by 1991. If you want to buy things on credit, oo it now. 
First-time investor's guide to entering the bull market 
By SAM SIEWERT Business Writer 
The stock market is becom­ing an increasingly popular in­vestment alternative. Many stur.lents are using their job earnings to make money in today's vibrant bull market. 
l 
The realistic world of invest­ing, though, is often different I than the ideal conception a would-be investor may have of 
it.
I 
I 
But the investor will find that l investing in the market is not very difficult after all. The first step is to decide how 
i 
much to invest and what level I of risk will be acceptable.
r 
The funds you use in a high risk investment should be money you can afford to lose, although in reality even the worst investment won't be a complete loss. 
Because medium risk invest­ments are characteristically less dynamic, the investor must be willing to have his money invested for longer pe­riods of time. 
Finally, for low risk invest­ments, it may be best to open a certificate of deposit rather than enter the stock market. 
Say you have decided how much you want to invest and what level of risk is acceptable. Which stock should you buy? 
If you've been watching stock market favorites or have received a tip from friends or family, you may be set. 
Another way to find a win­ning stock is to do your own 
Don't waste your time keeping information on 
spending that has no tax consequences. deductibles include life insurance premiums, per­sonal automobiles and business suits. On the other 
hand, records of moving expenses and job-related travel can prove to be very valuable. 
Even educational expenses can be itemized. Ac­countants seeking to enhance their present posi­tions, for example, can cut taxes by claiming the expenses involved in taking the CPA exam or in getting an MBA. Sorry, law degrees are not de­ductible. 
One final piece of advice, don't forget to keep copies of your returns. 
Oh, but that's not all. Payroll stubs are full of details on other taxes. Social Security taxes, for example, will rise from 7.15 percent to 7.51 percent next year. ' Also, many graduates will be astounded by the 
chunk the states will grab. Not every place is a haven like India ta. New York's top rate of 14 per­cent on income i.s a far cry from the 3 percent 
that Hoosiers pay. This doesn't include the slice sales taxes or city income taxes take. 
lorm 1040 1117 tn•'rid11al In rwtum 

Market clitnbs 20.3 points 
Associated Press exchange and an easing of up­ward pressure on interest 
NEW YORK -The stock rates. market staged a moderate Before the opening Wednes­rally Wednesday, bidding to day, the Commerce Depart­recover from its recent sel-ment reported that the index loff. · of leading economic in-
The Dow Jones average of dicators rose 0.4 percent in 30 industrials climbed 22.30 to March. 2,254.26, after struggling to a That modest increase 1.42-point gain on Tuesday. stemmed almost entirely 
Volume on the New York from gains in stock prices. Stock Exchange came to Analysts said it was consis­
173.59 million shares. tent with expectations of a slow-growth, low-inflation 
On Tuesday the market economy that would broke a four-session losing presumably serve as a favor­streak, aided by signs of a able background for the stock stabilizing dollar in foreign market. 
research. Your goal is to find a stock that is worth less than the other stocks in its industry. This means you must research the industry as a whole to de­termine if the price of stock "xyz" is below market value. After some time, the market will recognize the undervalued stock, and its price will jump, earning you a profit. 
Of course your other option is to seek the advice of a full-service broker who has cur­rent, detailed market research information available. 
Once you have gathered in­formation, the next step is to pick a stock broker to carry out your transactions. 
When trying to decide be­tween a full-service and a dis­count broker, you should con­sider the service you need and how much each type of broker costs. 

If you are interested simply in aquiring a security, you will probably want to deal with a discount broker. He will exe­cute only your orders to buy and sell. Ifyou need investment advice, however, and can af­ford the higher rates, then you should sign up with a full ser­vice broker. 
The rate differences between discount and full service brokers are not as great as in the past. Competition between the two types of brokers has caused prices to fall. 
After you set up an account with a broker you are ready to buy and sell stocks. 
Just call up your broker and 
Allied Shipping 
Let us pack and ship your electronic equipment, stereo, etc. direct to your home by UPS -Emery. 
219-277-7616 
Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri University Commons SR Western Union 
-r-----------------------­
• ~m~~ ,
s!~C~D S~R~a,. celnJrnooce® 
~f!lll@ 
aumnk Tmpa smu1 
o T[!)l sA -~o: o~e1~o 0 MIIIUU Xl~ ~: 0201 ~ ~ 
o M111UU Xl~~~: 02~1 ~ U 

tell him exactly what you want done. You can specify that the stock is to be bought or sold on your command, regardless of the price. Or you can say that a stock is to be bought or sold at a certain price within a set amount of time. 
Once you have acquired your stock, you can get current price quotes from your broker or watch the market summary in the papers. 
After buying your first stocks, you are on your way to using the stock market as a profitable investment. With time and experience your sue­cess and understanding of the market will improve vastly, and so will your profits. 
I 
LHours: 11 :30 -5:00 M-F & 1-5 Sat. J . Available
I 
·I 
' 
The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 9 
SPONSORED BY WATERBEDS CLASSIC WATERBEDS STEREO WATERBEDS 


NOTRE DAME 



A.C.C. 
SATURDAY 10 AM -9 PM SUNDAY NOON -6 PM 

ADMISSION ADULTS ..... S1 UNDfR 12. FRff 
SAVE TO 500~ OFF OR MOREOVfR 60 .. FRU 


JACKETS 
OVER 500 MEN'S & WOMEN'S CYCLE & FASHION JACKETS 
50·700/o OFF 
LEATHER PANTS & LEATHER SKtRTS 
AUDIO & VIDEO 
liD, t'IIIJ'FI.fF, 1'1/lr 
FOR HOME & CARl 

Classic Stereo ~ 
STEREO • TVs • VCRs ~ CELLULAR PHONES • MUCH MORE 
ALSO SWEAT & SPORT CLOTHES & SOCKS TO 80% OFF 

~ KID'S e MEN'S e WOMEN'S 
t..J BASKETBALL•TENNIS•RUNNING•AER081C•FITNESS,FIELD 

~ 
SUPER SALE SPECIAL 
PALM SPRINGS SET 
8 CASE IRONS 3 METAL WOODS
=S14915 

liiiLF STARTER NCKASE S79 
MANY MORE INCREDIBLE SPECIAL$ 
SATELLITE DISHES 
JUST FOR THE 
CORD 
~J" ~ 

ALBUMS • TAPES • MORE 
NUQE SAY/NtiS 
NIKON • CANON MINOLTA • MORE 
TRADE-INS WELCOME 
SINGER 
SEWING MACHINES 
~~. 

LIQ...IE:»~-rle».-.. 
• 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 

• 
LOWEST PRICES 


~HIRTH ~ JEWELERS 
AND FIVE OTHER FINE JEWELRY STORES 
UP TO 

70
0/o CHAINS • WATCHES GOLD • DIAMONDSOFF SILVER. RUBIES. MORE 
GOLFs:: 
• 
FACTORY DIRECT PRICING 

• 
SAVE TO 87% OFF 


FREE LOVESEAT 

ONLY 
WITH PURCHASE OF SOFA 

$599
REG. 8499 LOVESEAT FREE 

-------~---­
The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 10 
Phelps 
continued from page 12 
month of February. After Western Kentucky blew out Notre Dame in the opening round of the Coca-Cola NIT Classic, some wrote off the Irish for the season. As February began with the Carolina game, the Irish stood at 11-5, and not many gave them a chance to get past the No. 1 team country. 

But then the miraculous up­sets which have been a hal­lmark of Phelps tenure at Notre Dame began to happen. The Irish knocked off the top­ranked Tar Heels, but two weeks later, following two­straight road losses, the Irish were 13-7. They wouldn't lose again in the regular season. 
First the Blue Devils of Duke fell, followed by an upset of No. 4 DePaul. Phelps had primed his squad, and it responded. He said before the Duke game that freshman Joe Fredrick would be a factor and worked with him on his free-throw shooting. Sure enough, Fredrick came off the bench in overtime to hit a jumper and two free throws as the Irish pulled off another improbable upset. 

Before the DePaul game, Phelps guaranteed a classic, and it was. The Irish took it right to the Blue Demons and came out with a 73-62 win. 
In the NCAA's, the Irish beat Middle Tennessee St., 84-71, and Texas Christian, 58-57, in the East sub-regionals, but then fell to revenge-minded North Carolina, 74-68. Still, it was a superb season for a team that graduated four seniors the year before. 
"What I liked the most about this team was that it didn't know how to lose," said Phelps, whose record at Notre Dame stands at 325-146. "Whatever it took, this team did the things it had to rio to win. The kids 
never quit." 
The ObMinr Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObseiNI Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next•y classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
To the person who took my denim jacket I REALLY need a ride to D.C. or N. SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$··· I've got back stage passes lor U2­
MKS I 
night at Carolina on 511 Can you give me a ride to Miami of Ohio
on Thurs Cleveland and Hol­or 51'12. I won't take up Non-texts lor $$$tredit next fall. PAN· I want to thank you lor the great times J NOTICES lyhock, thank you for returning my 1.0. much space. John 3362. DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just this weekend? Please call Katy 284· 
we've had together this year. We've been but I would appreciate getting my jacket off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 4307. let's make a deal! alot have slot
through and done of back. No questions will be asked. Please I need a female roommate 10-530 ph. 233-2342 growing together. Although we'll be far
TYPING AVAILABLE call me at 4553 lor this summer!!! apart thss summer, I want you to know 
Have cheap apt. MONDAY, MAY 4, IS THE LAST REG­that you'll be on my mind everyday. I'm287·4082 
LOST: light blue book bag containing Call Mary x4311 ULAR PUBLISHING DAY FOR THE OB­
already counting the days until next Au­MONARCH 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Electronics, Physics, and Calculus SERVER. HURRY IN TODAY OR TO· gust and all the great times ahead. Maybe Professional Resumes books. Prescription glasses are also in­at MORROW TO SAY YOUR GOODBYES next year I'll even buy you flowers!
Senior Bar
....................... Need a female

side. Lost at South Dining Hall during IN THE CLASSIFIEOS. THERE WILL
Student Rates All my Love
Saturday 11 :30 pm

lunch on Monday. Please return to Vince roommate BE A COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON
Near the Mall GHM Ill 272-6336 
2578 for this summer!' MAY 15. Have cheap apt. 
Friday Night South Quad

LOST: CHROME DIGITAL WATCH Call Mary x4311 DANA TOGNI IS A WILD WOMAN!
....................... Campus Bands Beefy Bobcat·
somewhere on campus. This watch wasEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
The Bottom Line, Bill Bob & Bill, the Law, Happy 7th week! 
a graduation gift from my parents. so it To my uncaring, insensitive, off-duty
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 

and I love You!!
has considerable sentimental value. If Need female roomate R~MC: Thank you lor an incredible
MONARCH -Charmin (S.S.) SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$··· 
you find it please let me know. The watch lor this summer year and all the love that you have given. Non-teKts for $$$tredit next fall. PAN­
has the name "Jesse" engraved on the Have cheap apt • I'm glad NYC trains aren't safe at night. DORA'S BOOKS, BOB Howard St. just back, and the initials "BCHS." Call jesse Call Mary x4311 Love, Now and Always, your over-we1ght "What? Me worry? -Oops! The smart at x2055. twelve-year old ones are taking Kaplans." LSAT prep
off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI classes at•rt 5112 lor the IYI5 LSAT.

10-530, ph. 233-2342 HELP WANTED NO Prof. needs depend­GRADUATION TICKETS Call 272-4135 for Info.
LOST:A PAIR 0~ RAYBANS AT OR PRO-TYPE able person for cooking and some er· To Lori Arick-the woman in motion,
for saleNEAR BADIN HALL ON SATUR­

Quality work, word processing avail­rands. Sunday aft's 2-3 hrs. Must have Call Artie at 1787 Well it's the last week of classes! Hal­
DAY,APRIL 25. --$20 REWARD. CALL 
able. Reasonable s. 277-5833. own transportation and be available thru Thanks lor brightening up my lelujah!! I can't wait to get out of here!! I
GREG AT £3170 
summer. 277-4725 evenings & week-you STIR ME UP! BIT BY BIT, just know there are some real women RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD somewhere out there and I'm going to
Word Processing near NO. Call Mary REWARD REWARD weekends. ONE WAY OR ANOTHERyour energy 
REWARD 
BLDG TAKES ME UP TO THE HIGHEST. find one or else I'm going to die a s1ngle
232-2436 REWARD REWARD IF YOU FOUND A 
WHEN man. I just refuse to lower my standards•MEN'S GOLD COLORED SEIKO RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD ALL FALL DOWN, you alwaysKEEP ME
WATCH AT ST.MARY'S ON BLDG HANGIN' ON! 10,20,30,40minutes of • 70S tunes 70s tunes 70s tunesTHE JPW MUGS ARE HERE!! PICK THURSDAY PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 
FOR SALE 

aerobics are never enough for me. Sunday night at 11 on WVFI THURS, 10 TO 11 pm. Bring your ID. TARY REWARD. RALLY FOR JUSTICE RALLY FOR May your future make you as cheerful "December '63" "Rhinestone Cowboy" JUSTICE "Billy, Don't Be a Hero" Bay City Rollers 
THEM UP IN 718 PE WED, 6 TO 7 pm; 4221. YOU WILL RECEIVE A MONE­
Extras are available. Problema? Call of a person as you are today. Maureen £4455 
Good luck in S.F. and God Bless! Bee Gees Shaun Cassidy and much FOR SALE:1978 VW RABBIT,GOOD RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD more with the king of tacky music Donald CONDITION,$1 ,200,239-5693. BLDG Seymour
Typing-Word Processing 277-5014 FOR RENT love, Your Three Aerobics Buddies FOR SALE (WE ARE THE BOYS) CHICAGO-BOUND GRADS!! 1976 Monte Carlo, swivel seat. AMFM Female Roommate needed.
6 bedroom 4-6 students $400SOO & 
stereo cassete player. 80,000 original SMC P S. AH,HA,HA,HA,HA! 2 Br.1'1 bath. Lincolnutilities. Security system 234 6688
I LOST/FOUND I 

miles, a good winter car. $400 or best SMC Park apt. June 1st. offer. Must sell by or before graduation. SMC For more info: callFURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
Call 232-6428 after 6PM. MANDATORY MEETING FOR ALL IN­I heard that if you feed alka-seltzer tablets Pam (312) 348·6688,SMC'86LOST MEN'S GOLD COLOR WATCH SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­
WITH LEATHER BAND. IT WAS MY 8889 TERESTED IN to sea gulls, they explode. Is it true? CHRISTMAS PRESENT. DOES NOT ORIENTATION '87 GENERAL COMMIT­Please answer in the personals. HAVE MUCH STREET VALUE, BUT FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR 
FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER TEE P:'6.·S8 143 B. LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283· APRIL29 AND 30 AT 5:30 IN HAGGAR
PLENTY OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­3883,NICK COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 304 Rei NEED RIDE TO NJ ANYDAY AFTER
MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME IF SHE 3684288·0955 

PLEASE ATIEND ONE OF THE TWO MAY 12 PREPARED TO SHARE GAS
You're Awesome! MOVING OFF CAMPUS? MEETINGS Thanks a Million! & DRIVING CALL 272-6594 FINDS OUT! POSSIBLY LOST BE· 
TWEEN MORISSEY AND KEENAN Apt. for rent this summer LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL NEED FURNITURE? SMC Love, l
Call Heidi 233-4176 
CALL PERRY 272·2252 SMC THANK YOU ST. JUDE P.N.
RAFAEL AT 3348. OR DROP OFF AT LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 

MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE SMC BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA LAST MINUTE FRENCH TUTORING LAST CHANCE TO BUY YOUR TIE-DYE FOR RENT: LARGE, UNFURNISHED SHIRT. LIMITED SUPPLY 284·5343
BEFORE FINALS. CALL PIERRE AT ROOM WITH PRIVATE BATH. $150-MO. MUCH GOOD LUCK TO THE Lost Faded Out Jean Jacket at 239-5414 OR 277-2282Theodore's on April23. I think !hera was 
INCLUDES UTILITIES EXCEPT BIKE AND CAR RACK FOR SALE, CALL DYNAMIC MACBETH-IAN DUO FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED PHONE. PEACEFUL SETIING NEAR FRANK-3043, $50 OR BEST OFFER MARK COSTANZI INDIANAPOLIS AREA a mix-up -yours is in the Lost and Found 
in La Fortune. It has sentimental value ST. JOE RIVER, 4 MILES FROM 

K.LYNN BERRY Susan, thanks lor telling. Terry, party in CALL MARYBETH 284-5134 CAMPUS. LIVE WITH SINGLE MOT­to me!!!!! Please contact Cindy at SMC 
FuU Pioneer System: Digital Quartz break the proverbial leg'll London? M.
£4219. 

HER AND 2 BOYS, AGES 8 & 10. CHILD 
Tuned Receiver, Full-Functional Auto­love you --Ann CARE NOT EXPECTED CALL 233­
Reverse Tape Deck, Direct-Drive Turnt· Joe, I've got 10 minutes ... How about WANT TO MAKE HUNDREDS OF DOL· Lost: HANDMADE SILVER PEACE 4591 EVENINGS ONLY. 
able, Acoustic Speakers, Glass Stereo you? LARS WORKING ONLY A FEW NIGHTS Cabinet. Call Dave K3136. HELP WANTED!! Year around. part-time. A MONTH? Graduat1ng D.J. needs to'sell SIGN EARRING, po:iSibly in the ACC 
fencing gym two weeks ago. Extreme sentimental value. II found please call STUDENT HOUSES 2, 5, and 6 man Apply at PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Three hotel rooms at the Holiday Inn. stereo system. It's too much of a money­284-4338 Ca~lin houses on Corby available lor next year. '81 MAZDA RX7, 5-spd., excellent con· Howard St. JUSt off of N.D. Ave. OPEN Please call if wanted: 283·1546 making opportunity to pass up! Best offer. Call Chet at 234·7664 dition. 49,000 miles. Air, AMFM stereo, 7 days a week: 10-530 Call Nick at 1060 lor details. new tires, brakes & clutch, 1-owner, a~­Todd: Why be so modest? You're being APT. FOR RENT·CHICAGOOAK PARK, king $5,500. 277·2365 Bob. To Alex, Renee, John, Sam, Brian, GeoH, scoped··you know it & you love it. Don't JERSEY BOUND??? NEED RIDE TO
HELP!!! I LOST MY WALLET AT SMC FEMP.LE ROOMATE. SUMMER. 239· Laura, Hedi, Katy, Jim, and Mark: THIS deny us one of life's simpler pleasures. CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM·
THURSDAY NIGHT DURING THE MR. 

7712 Californian selling authentic "beach BUD'S FOR YOU Thanks for your help MER. WILL SHARE ALL EXPENSES.
CAMPUS COMPETITION. I THINK IT 

cruiser" bike:$50 or best offer Also selling on the Bus. Page ·Steve SANDRA ZABEL How we, two complete HELP!! PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041.
WAS LOST IN THE MENS RESTROOM 

Subletting House-Bulla Rd. 8 blocks from "huge" electric lan:$25 or best offer. Call opposites, managed to be the best of
IN ANGELA. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE campus. Fireplace, 3 bed rooms. Mike 283-2542. BAL TO MD Ride needed or will rent WI friends is both enigmatic and epitomizes Holy St. Jude, Martyr and Saint
CONTACT ME (154 DILLON OR £4783). 272·3763. others. leave 511 Call Wendy 1:3855 what friendship really is--a tribute more To you I make my plea
YOU CAN HAVE THE MONEY AS A 

Commodore 64 For Sale Call John at to you than me. Graduation beckons you I do not write this in complaintREWARD. RON FlYNN 
Apartment to sublet. Turtle Creek, 1 1158 FREE BEER! FREE BEER! FREE to move on. Yale will be the better for But please have pity on me bedroom. summer. Dan 1809 BEER! your presence, I will miss you. 0HEY!!!! TO WHOEVER SAVED MY 
Really, I need a ride to Midway Airport I study so hard. study all nightCAMERA FROM BEING DIPPED IN 
3 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT in Chicago on Tuesday, May 12. Call Paul C. (consulting god) And prepare so well lor the testMUD ALONG WITH ME···THANKS!!I 
AVAILABLE 87·88 SCHOOL YEAR 10 Andrew at 1532. Good luck in the lacrosse game tonight But when I sit down I get such a fright
BUT, PLEASE, I NEED IT BACK NOW. Minutes from campus 233·6298 although I still think that there's someth· I remember my name and forget the rest
CALL ME AT 272-9361. -THE GIRL 
TICKETS 

1ng wrong about playing lacrosse with aWITHOUT A NIKON 
Attention all IKE-STERS: Eileen, Patti, sprained ankle. In just a lew days I'll be tested again Margie, Michelle, Karen, Terri, Ellen, And this is for what I prayI WANT MY JEAN JACKET!!!!! IF YOU 
Kathy, Amy, Bonnie, Pam, Cindy, Faye, That you may find the time to send"MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY 
WANTED 
I 
Need Grad. Tix Will Pay $$$ Call Pete Marie Glad I met ya, It's been a blast GUMBA DEGO-WHOPSON DAVID A simple blessing my way
NIGHT, I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D 272-6078 My scarf is your scarf, FOREVER! SCHMUTZE Thank you lor an unlorget·
RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY 10!). SUMMER JOBS FRANCE BOB (BLIZZO) table night; bested only by lour incredible -A. Fnencl in Need
PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT ALL LANDWATER SPORTS years. We love you--Jim Ray Tim & the
NEED 1 GRAD TICKETBACK----NO HARD FEELINGS. 
$$$CALL SUE 284-4113

PRESTIGE CAMPS To the guy who eats in B line: I like your m1ce
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
'JIONICA £1337 

gray patch! Thanks for the "hi!" at the St. Jude, help me remember. CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­ketchup table From the dessert girl SMC ROCKS
HELP! I LOST MY GOLD NECKLACE INGS 914·381-4224. 
·A Friend in NeedAND CROSS ON STEPAN FIELD 
!!!HELPIII I know it's early, bull need 1·5 Thank you, St. Jude.
DURING THE AN TOSTAL PICNIC. 
USC tickets. Please call Matt at )(1070 Knock, knock.

......................................................... ! ..... . 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE; 

FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR before break, or (712)246-4585this sum· SMC ROCKS SMC ROCKS
REWARD OFFERRED. CALL CHRIS CHICAGO-LINCOLN PARK AREA 
mer. CHANTAl·I'VE FOUND A NEW DIMEN­with lhe Law· and "Freudian Slip"COOKE AT 3286. THANK YOU!! 
SION TO THE OMEGA. CAN'T WAIT 1-5 pm
STARTING JUNE 1, 87. CALL KAREN AT 272·7421. NEED 1-2 GRADUATION TIX. PLEASE TO SEE PEASH AND Al. HOPE THEY Hi, Meg!! LeMans Courtyardlost...II gold loop earring somewhere near 
CALL HELEN £288-8157 LIKE MOl-MARC Move, Meg!! Sat., May 2
Sarin, Lewis and Stepan Courts on Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay big Nice, Meg!!
Friday. Sentimental Value II found, call 
AFAR-You're right, I have no clue, So

$$$. Call 3586. Love you, Meg!!
x2297. Reward. 

tell me, WHO ARE YOU??!! Dear Social Blunder, Liz Who? 
1984 Grad. looking for rommate to share 
I PERSONALS 

CHRIS-Surprise! Law students get per­NJ Club TRUCKS CALL TO RESERVE
2 bedroom condo 1n l incoln Park areaLOST Women's Gold Selko Quartz sonals too! Smile .. and keep passing 
of Chicago. Call Jim (h) (312) 248·4262 Greg T.. I just wanted you to know that SPACE & GET INFO JOHN 2215 DEBWatch on Saturday Near the Mudpits. if (w) (312) 263-2610 ext. 2322 OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, the open windows ... love. Diane & KT no matte1 what happens between the two 284·5147 KEVIN 1791 WE NEEDFound Please Call 283·2112. 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE ENOUGH RESERVATIONS IN ORDER
of us. you will always have a special place ··············· ............................................... in my heart.
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. attention--BILL SCHMITZ has finally got­TO RUN A SENIOR & UNDERGRAD LOST: light tan LONDON FOG jacket JERSEY BOUND??? I NEED A RIDE 
ten over his liver disorder , a drinking TRUCK. CALL BY FRI 5PM.DRIVERS 
mistakenly taken from Senior Bar last TO CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM­Are you going to god, he is. Love. the ch1cks who partied SMC ROCKS MIGHT BE NEEDED ALSO. CALL be here for with you this weekend. SOON!!
Fri.nrte. Size: 38 Reg. II you have i1 MER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. HELP!! please call John x3667. PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041. SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
PmSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE Maria C. Doti, (Part 2) SENIORS-NEW YORK CITY BOUND! LOST: CANON TX 35mm CAMERA BOSTON-ROOMMATE NEEDED CALL II so, The Observer needs your help in TRUCKSUNDAY, MAY 10. LOOK FOR Are you feeling like yourself today? Why WHO ARE YOU? INTERESTED IN A sometime Saturday, 4-'25, probably at ZACK 1154 produc&ng some summer issues of the FLIER LISTING PRICES IN MAIL Also, do you hang out in the 'Brar? It can't be HAPPY HOUR SENIOR WEEK? CALL 
newspaper. if you want to be on the ballot for next

BlueGold game, about 112 way up in Sec. to study. ELLEN 1262 OR KRIS 2894 
The jobs are vaned and, if you are inter­year's club officers. call Bill Boyle at 272­strap(orange, black. grey,) no lens cap. NY LV MON -2885 (KEEP CALLING) ested in newspaper training in your spare 9514 or Red xt612 by Saturday. RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1 ·-3:15 AD GOODBYE ANo.aoool.."ucK Filled with Kodak color film, 400 ASA. time, call The Observer offices and ask BLDG Dave Temelea University team photos on film and Need summer employment? Why not for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. De11r Sloth, Kirby 
The Observer I know you have my Advoc11te. Come 

7. It was in a black camera case, woven NEED RIDE-POKEEPSI&E FISHKILL 
needed DESPERATELY!!!! This has come to camp this summer? Positions RAUY FOR JUSTICE RALLY FOR I'll miss you guys. And as lor my lady been part of my life lor over 10 years; open f01 counselors, waterfront, nurse. and over tonight and give IT to me. I'll be JUSTICE lnends-RM, Terri and Cathy Notre Dame please don't take it from me now. No and bu~ness manager. Send for appli· Special Olympics waiting, cutie. won't know what hit it when we get back love Mr. leather
questions asked. Call Katie at 239· cation: lLGSC, 2421 S. Nappanee, NEEDS YOU!!! RAUY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD Love Renee 5200(day) or 232·5238 (evenings.) Elkhart. IN 46517. BLDG 
The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 11 
Krause Award nominees boast impressive campaigns 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Several individuals have turned in outstanding perfor­mances for Notre Dame ath­letics this year. 
While only three can be honored with the Edward W. "Moose" Krause Award, pre­sented by The Observer sports staff to the outstanding male athlete, female athlete and coach, many more deserve spe­cial recognition for their achievements. 
Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt, a sophomore local from South Bend, tallied 16 goals and six assists for the Irish soccer team in its 13-7-2 season. He put the punch back into Notre Dame's offensive attack with five game-winners and two hat tricks during the season. 
The transfer from Holy Cross Junior College was among the
SAB PUBLICITY top 10 scorers in the nation at one point in the season. In every game he had a goal or
COMMISSION 
is looking for committee members for next year. Positions are available for anyone with artistic, creative, or organizational ability. Information sheets and applications can be picked up in the SAB Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Move Yourself, All Your Staff, 
,~--Aod Save, Too!--..., 

assist, the Irish won. 
Last fall, Steve Beuerlein turned in the best performance of his four years at the helm of the Notre Dame football of­fense. The senior quarterback from Fullerton, Calif., and four-year starter broke nearly every Irish passing record, in­cluding the most career pass­ing yards in the season-opener against Michigan and the all­time total offense mark, previ­ously held by Joe Theismann, against Navy. 

Beuerlein was one of the na­tion's leaders in passing effi­ciency, thanks in part to his 102 consecutive pass attempts without an interception mid­way through the season, includ­ing a career-high 39 attempts against eventual national champion Penn State. 
Beuerlein's favorite target, flanker Tim Brown, also had a stellar year on the gridiron for Notre Dame. The junior from Dallas, Tex., was among the nation's top five players in all­purpose yards per game for most of the season, averaging well over 150 a contest. 
Mary Kay Waller led the vol­leyball team with her powerful net play to a 33-7 record, its best season ever. The sophomore from Lawrence, Kan., ranked among the nation's top ten leaders in kill percentage and blocks per game for much of the season, and was named to the first-team North Star Con­ference squad. 
Corrine DiGiacomo, a senior captain from Rosemont, Pa., set the Notre Dame career scoring record in field hockey with a penalty shot goal against Southwest Missouri in Septem­ber. DiGiacomo missed the final nine games of the season with a knee injury, but tallied 15 goals and two assists to lead the Irish in scoring. 
Art Lambert coached the Notre Dame volleyball team to a an outstanding 33-7 record, a huge improvement from last year's 12-19 mark. Lambert's squad set several team records, perhaps the most im­pressive being their 17-game 
stretch  of  wins  midway  
through the season.  
Yves  Auriol,  in  only  his  

second year as mentor of the Notre Dame women's fencing team, coached the Irish to the first-ever National Champion­ship for a Notre Dame women's team. 
Under Auriol, a native of France, the women's fencing team has seen two consecutive undefeated seasons. 

continued from page 12 

immediately after he returned to the lineup following his rehabilitation . 
"We had some ups and downs this year, especially me," he said. "When I first came back, I expected to be 100 percent, and when I didn't start that way, I became frustrated and played that much worse . 
"But I think I came along at the right time, and most of the credit for that should go to our trainer, Skip Meyer. He was 

It's as easy as renting a Ryder truck, one way. 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at tht: end of the semester. 
If you're 18 or older and have a valid dri\ler's license, you can use a Ryder truck, rent-it-here, leave-it-there. Load up your stereo, lO-speed, clothes: ewrythlng. You'll still have room, no doubt. for one or two friends with their things to share the cost. 
Compare that to the price of a plane ticket. Or e\len a bus. Plus shipping. Rent a newer truck from the best-maintained. most dependa­ble fleet In the world-Ryder. The best truck money can rent. 
2715 North Bendix, South Bend, Ind. 
(By the Airport) 
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 

All students are given a 10% discount. 
IT'S RYDER, OR IT'S WRONG 
' 
I 
After JOUr last exam, 
• 
W don't have your answers. 
But we'll listen to your questions, share some of our own about who we want to become 

•
•
and where we want tC' journey. 


what toughquestions 
: No Deposit 
will you still be facing? 
:
• Free Membership : No Hassle 

•
• • • 
• 

Ask about our95t student club membership! 
per day (2 day min) 
"Early Bird Special" 


: (blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A) 
: • : : : • : : • 
: : • : 

·=========================: with me for all the rehab and 
: ··-• he made sure I didn't do too 
For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, 

•~~INf" FREE 
the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore 
: 512 W. Edison 
the possibilities in community. 

: Mishawaka 
Contact: 
Curtis

: 256-0226
Father Couhlg 6 FlJlher Doyle Vocation Director 
• 55011 Mayflower 
•
Box 54 I

II • 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIMathes

• South Bend
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-6385 
• 288-8348 HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER
• 
: much at a time." : Tournament time was when 
• Rivers did it all. He scored a ! season-high 27 points in the !. first-round game against 


Middle Tennessee State and added 24 against TCU, includ­ing the winning free throw . 
Against North Carolina, the six-foot junior canned 23 in the season finale. 
"It's an honor because, along with the USBWA award, it lets me know that my effort and de­termination are being recog­nized," the Jersey City, N. J. native said. "Seeing that people recognize those things motivates me to do more." 
: • : : : 
•
•
•
•
• 
: 

The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 12 

Coach 
continued/rom page 12 
quotes. 
This is one writer who is going to miss those days. 'Mary D.' has resigned and decided to return to school at Northwes­tern lwhere she used to coach) to pursue a masters degree in business administration. 
There are probably a lot of coaches who refer to their players as their own children. But I wonder how many other coaches treated their players that way in every aspect of life. And the energetic DiStanis­lao's willingness to lend a bel­ping hand to each and every one of her players is only half the story. The numbers tell the other half pretty much for themselves. 
A career record of 204-109 over 12 years. When she took over the job at Notre Dame, the Irish program made a leap from AlAW Division III status to an NCAA Division I squad.

.l 
Since then, she has registered \ three 20-win seasons in seven 1 years and guided Notre Dame 
to a third-place finish at the 
Women's National Invitation 
Tournament in 1985-86 with a 
23-8 mark. Many thought the 
Irish should have received a 
bid to the NCAA Tournament 
that year. 
''The opportunity to go to Northwestern was more or less an offer I couldn't refuse," said the 36-year-old DiStanislao, who hopes one day to become an athletic director. ''The deci­sion has no bearing on how I feel about Notre Dame. I love this place and I always have. I feel very strongly about the job we've done, I feel we're in a good position to continue along a successful path, and it's a cinch to say I'm going to miss this place.'' 
The Irish were 6-15 and had just been trounced, 90-55, at the hands of Tennessee at one point in this past season. Three players had quit the team, leaving no seniors and no cap­tain. So what did DiStanialso do? She gave her players a choice. They could either go out in embarrassing fashion or they could start playing some basketball. 
PIME MISSIONARIES live t e GOSPEL among t e poor arrl uocl'rurched in the Third Warld. So that all may ~w of God's love. 
Yotmg men 18-35, interested in FREE BOOKLET about life as a missionary priest in PIME, fill out this ad and send it to: 
PIME Vocation Dept. 3731 West 62nd St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767-0620 

~________________________Age______ 
Address Cit State Zi 
DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY 
REVIEW COURSE FOR THE NOVEMBER 1987 CPA EXAMINATION 
JUNE 15-0CTOBER 30, 1987 
THE 
FACULTY 
THE

~ 
COVERAGE 
THE 
APPROACH 

THE 
LAB SESSIONS 
THE 
PASS RATE 
THE 
MEDALS 
Classes meet Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, or Tuesday, Thursday evenings and Saturday mornings. Classes held at DePaul's Loop Campus. Call341-8640 for information. 
School of Accountancy DePaul University 25 E. Jackson Bou1evard Chicago, Illinois 60604-2289 

Please send me a brochure and admission from the DePaul University CPA Review Course. Name _____________________________________ 
Address ------------------------------­
City----------State---Zip-----­
They chose the latter, win­ning the last six games of the season when they weren't given much of a chance, and finishing the campaign with a 12-15 record. 
Then, nine days ago and ex­actly seven years after she was named head coach for the Irish, DiStanislao decided to call it quits. While she told her story at a rather quiet press confer­ence, her players gathered to­gether with long faces. 
"It was definitely her who kept the team together in some hard times," said junior point guard Mary Gavin. "She's helped me from day one and we were all really upset that she wasn't going to be coaching next year. But we're also really happy for her because she's doing what she really wants to do. I think it's a good decision for her, no matter how much she'll be missed." 

As of yet no decision has been made as far as a replacement is concerned. The only thing anyone seems to know for sure is that DiStanislao is on her way to Northwestern. 
A couple of days ago the same reporter stopped by the basketball offices in the ACC just to say 'hello.' Or is it 'good­bye?' 
This time it was very differ­ent, however. The lobby was the same, but the similarities ended there. In the hallway were a number of large moving boxes. DiStanislao was not busy with a player in her office. In fact, she wasn't even in her office. Not much else was either. It's amazing what you can fit in moving boxes. 
DiStanislao was in Irish as­sistant coach Caren Truske's office with Truske and the other assistant coach, Bill Fen­nelly. They weren't talking hoops. They were sitting back, talking about the evening's WWF wrestling card. 
I had to laugh. I finally catch her at a time when she isn't busy, and I don't need an inter­view. Oh well. Maybe some other time. Hopefully some other time. 
But enough of these stories. Good luck Coach D. We'll miss you. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Refrigerator Return 
All University owned refrigerators MUST be returned to STEPAN CENTER on SATURDAY, MAY 2 
10:00 am -3:00 pm 
Refrigerators must be clean and defrosted to receive your $20.00 deposit. SAB Services Commission 
NAVY HIRING 
College graduates are needed to pilot, n~v~gate, and maintain the most sophis­t~cated aircraft in the world! 
* 
No experience necessary

* 
ALL majors considered 


As a NAVY PILOT, you will fly the most advanced aircraft ever developed. 
As a NAVY FLIGHT OFFICER, you will ~perate the electonics and computers 1n the Navy's newest jets. 
Navy Officer Representatives will be on campus conducting an exclusive testing session. All interested students who are within three years of graduation are encour.aged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 3~ hours and seats are limited. 

PILOT TRAINEES 

Date: _:;,F=r=i=d=a..... Time: 12:30/4:30 p.n'~
yL..,~M~a::.....v~:........:l:...J,~l:..:::9~8:...!..7______ 8:30a.m.; PI ace: Career & Placement Services I Conference Room 
----~-----------------~----------------------------------­
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling 256-1455 
---------------------------------­ 
PILOT- Start at $21,200Ages 19-26.  ($35,000  after  4 years).  20/20  uncorrected vision.  
FLIGHT OFFICER  -Start at vision.  $21,200 ($35,000Ages 19-26.  after  4  years).  20/20  correctable  

MANAGER,-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Ship handling and manage­ment. Strong emphasis in personnel management. Ages 19-26. 
=:-=c=-=~=

BUSINESS MANAGER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance personnel logistics. Ages 19-28. ' ' 
ENGINEER-Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
Sophomores & Juniors: 

NAVAL AVIATION CADET -Sophomores from 4-year or Community College that are un­decided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semeste~ hours, 2.5 GPA and pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
~~~~~~~~~~====~ 

AVIATION RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE -~uaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Sophomore or Junior year summer break, and/or upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
~~~~~~~~~= 

RESERVE OFFICER CANDIDATE ~ Guaranteed Officer Training at OCS (Newport, RI) dur~ng Sophomore or Junior year summer break and/or upon completion of BS/BA degree. No drilling/meetings required. 
Must be a U.S. citizen and in good health. 
NAVY~ OFFICER. 

LEADTHE ADVENTURE. 
-----------------------------------------------L!;;;;;;;;:;;~~~=============:=:=~~~~~
....... .., ...... ........... ... .
...-_ 


The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 13 

sour cream &onion, 880, regular & ripple V2 lb. bag 
S99 





Catsup Paper Plates

grade A fancy 32 oz. 100 count, uncoated, 9 inch 


Turkey Wieners 

12oz.•) 

LM~IJ ~wl;2!49e 

Fruits & Vegetables 
Fruit Cocktail, choice 
496a 

quality, heavy syrup. 16 oz. . . • • . .... Hawaiian Pineapple, fancy quality. sliced. chunk. crushed. 
59e 

ju1ce pack. 20 oz. ••..••..••..•. Irregular Peaches 
596a 

California. light syrup, 29 oz. . . • . ..,. !~!~~~=~~~5 oz............49e ~~~d~_'!~ ~~~-~~~~.........39e :~!~ A~a~:~~6Soz ............3se ~uo~h·~-~~~~~.~~~~~ ......49e 


~ALDI 
Low Price 
WholeKernelorCream 
2S6a 

StyleCorn,gradeAfancy. 16.5oz ~ 
S299
Sweet Peas 
2Se

grade Afancy, 16 oz. ........... 
Cut Green Beans 
2Se 

grade Afancy. 15.5 oz. .•....... Asparagus 79e ~~cnhc~. ~~~~~.~~~~~~ ..••..99e 
grade Afancy, cut. 14.5 oz ..... . 
100% Pure Orange Juice 99~ unsweetened, gradeAfancy,46oz. . ~
~e~~h:~i~':: 4 oz ..........39e 
Prepared Foods 
:~~~~ -~~.~~~~~~...........39e 
::r~~~ ~~i:a~!. ~sn! ...•....49e · Cereal 
~2~co~r~~.~-~..~~~~.~~.........J9e ~o:zn ~~-~~~.~ ••..•..••••.•...89e ~~a0;h!":t':~:~~n~.~~.~~~.~.69e ~a!'n -~-r-~~-~~.................SJ99 ~2~!a .~i.~~-~~-~~-~~.~ .......39e 
59

~:~!1 ~~~~~~~ ..................SJ ~:~~r~h~~~~.:~v~,r~ia~!x .....49e 
These are not weekly specials. These are e~eryday ALDI" low prices. 
929 N. Eddy south Bend. IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 10om-7pm Friday: 9am -8pm Saturday: 9am -6pm Closed Sunday 

3207 Lincolnway West South Bend. IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 9am-7pm 

Friday: 9am-Spm Thes~I!JJJ~Stoek-Up Store: 
Saturday: 9am -6pm ~ Closed Sunday 
Hamburger or Hot Dog Bunsact. 
2~ 

12 ounce can 
Foam Cups 50 ct. 
Condiments and Spreads 
~~!P~~ -~~-~~.~. ~-~~~.~~-~~-. 79e 
8!8
~o o~ ~~~~~~-..•.•...•....49e 
Richelieu Western SJ99 Dressing, 32 oz. .. .......... .. 
~=:~~:~~.rJ~~!c~~~~-.....79e 
;:-;~ f~n~~.~~ oz. .•...•...•.79e Peanut Butter, creamy or SJI9 chunky, grade Afancy, 18 oz. ..••..• 
Cookres and Sl"lacks 
~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~.r.~ .....99e ~6ac:d~~~~-~~~~~~~ ........99e ~~~c~~~~~. ~~ ~~-~~-~~.~~~ ..79e ;~:n.~~~~-~ .................49e ~~~tc~~.~~. ~~~~~...........79e 
Brach Peppermint Kisses SJI9 16 oz. or Salt Water Taffy, 19.25 oz. 
Baking Supplies 
;4u~:. ~~~~~~.~~.~-~~~ .........79e ~~~~~~~~~~~!eoz .............SJ29 ~:~~~ ........................49e 


Darry and Lunch Meat 
i~~:~o~~~~~~••...•••••..••.39e ~o:.m. ~~~~.~~-......•..•...•.99~ ~~~~-e~. ~.~~~ -~~~~~.~ ......99e ~~~~~~~.....................S9e 
8
~~~~ ~ac~ 
....••...••.•....99e 



The Observer Thursday, April 30, 1987-page 14 
Irish golf team tries to defend title at Spartan Invite 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO After a poor finish at the should do just fine." standing play at the Kepler was hampered by a wrist prob­Sports Writer Kepler (Ohio State) two weeks 
made him an academic all­lem for most of the fall." 
ago and a break in the schedule If a change in the golf team's America nominee, enters the Naturally, the rest of theThe Notre Dame golf team last week, the squad is eager fortunes are to be realized, the 
Spartan with the club's low Irish contingent will have to put concludes its season this to resume match-play. Coach coach hinted that Norm average. He has played well all forth good rounds if they want
weekend at Michigan State, as Noel O'Sullivan, whose club Campbell would be-part of the year and has been the most to keep their title. O'Sullivanthe Irish are out to defend their has been preparing at both answer. 
consistent golfer on the team coined the team's motivationSpartan Invitational title they Morris Park and South Bend 
according to O'Sullivan. as pride.captured a year ago. for the Spartan, is confident "Certain situations call for a "We are the defendingthey will finish on a positive needed change," he said, "but 
"Dick has really performed champs, and we owe somethingThe 54-hole tournament note. in Norm Campbell's situation well," he said, "which is to the program and ourselves," 
should be a three-way race be­the change was deserving. The remarkable considering he he said. tween host Michigan State, "We have had good rounds of players are looking forward to Miami (Ohio), and Notre golf this spring, and I can't see 
Norm making the trip. His ~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~-~-~~~~-~~~~~~~~~ 
Dame. In all, 10 clubs represe­us finishing worse than third at presence will not disturb the
nting the Big Ten and MAC will the Spartan," said O'Sullivan. chemistry, but can only en-vie for the top spot at Forest "Besides, with a forecast for hance it." Akers Country Club. good weekend weather, we Dick Connelly, whose out-
SMC tennis has impressive finish 
By ELLEN WILLSON number-two singles position, teamed to defeat Milczarski Sports Writer ended her college tennis career and DeVore of Hillsdale, 4-6, 6­by defeating Hillsdale's 2, 6-0. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Natalie DeVore, 6-0, 6-2. ended its challenging spring In the number-one singles Drahota and Kate McDevitt season on a strong note with an spot, freshman Jennifer Block held out to beat Hillsdale's 8-1 victory over Hillsdale Col­fell to Hillsdale's Janet Susan Weide and Lil Peterson, lege at home Tuesday. Milczarski, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5. 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. 
"We have improved tremen­In other singles action, Char­dously this season and we lene Szajko, Elizabeth Heinz, The pair of Szajko and should be a top-notch team next Sandy Hickey and Jane Schnell Hickey rounded out the team fall," said Head Coach Deb all posted straight-set vic­effort with a 6-1, 6-1 victoryLaverie. tories. over Jacquin and Hammond of 
I' I 
,, 
I 
I' 
1 
j L 
J 
) 
Senior Kim Drahota, at the In doubles, Block and Heinz Hillsdale. 
M I IN • • 


The large bannerbelonging 
to the Notre Dame chapter of PHI BBTA KAPPA has been taken from the LibraryAuditorium Lounge. 
This banner is needed for initiation ceremonies on Commencement weekend. The return of this· irreplaceable item will be greatly appreciated. 

~ 1986 Miller Brewmg Co., Milwaukee, WI 

THERE'S 
ONLY ONE 
UTEB&R
'' 
I 
*TRANSLATION: A SUPERBLY BREWED. FINE TASTING PILSNER BEER. 
I 



~~~ttll~.........................................................
T.hu.r.sd•a•y•'•Ap•r•il•3•0,•1•98•7•-•p•a•ge..15­Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
fl{l.t{} ?  RI6HT... If ~IN t.A. 30 n~5  
•StJllfJel Sra£55  I!!IMK 1Hf11'f 1£A£'61?5... II  .. fif(J? ~5€RV6  
SEKVIC£5, INC. ?  ~XHe.. l1 Hllf?t.£Y f(JI( !M/16€.•  1He Clfm CHA56 5(/~  
MY CIJeNT f«JtJt.P t/Kc  II IJI~e:JT Pa?60NIIL lfV{J//Vt'm  1fT JHe' f£1TY FCJ!(fl  
10 CIK!Je'K Yw~ Wtl/X€  Mf/Nilt£K... 11 !J(X)KING I1T THe  Ct!VTCR 1Hf?()(Jf711  
llCK !KKIY£ '~..  •mt-11/P" CONCE!(T, II PITZY  1988. Wad'.  
\  FASHION M0/1({.. fi:Jif A WI/F ... \  '\. ----­ 

Beer Nuts 
Mark Williams 


·························~~~~-~~~-=-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~ 
II SAB Presents: : Everyth(g You Wanted to Know About Bugs Bunny Film Festival + Sex 

+

+ Friday and Saturday Nite
Tonight 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 + 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00
Engineering Auditorium + 
$1.00
+
$1.00 

+ Engineering Auditorium 
Absolutely no food or drinks allowed! + 
-~·-~_~·_c~~·-~_!-~-~~-~_:_O~==================================:~========~~Ab--so_l_u_re_~__no__foo__d_o_r_d_r_ink__a_l_lo-~--d~=========== 

LOOK AT TJ.IAT THOSE F{X)TBALL 
t.JH0'5 WNNA
PLAYERS JUJT CUTIN LINE LJ.Kf TH[Y 0/./NfD TH[ CANPV5. STOP US? I H SICK OF IT. 
/ I \ ' 
Campus . · 
10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m.: Art Dept. Pottery 8:00p.m.: Festival of Arts and Dept. of Exhibit, O'Shaugnessy Great Hall Art, Art history and Design slide1ecture 
3:30 p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical by Paul Soldner, Claremont Graduate Engineering Seminar, ''Hydro-Thermo School, Claremont California, who will Dynamics of Superfluid Helium II," Part lecture on his own work and the contem­II, By Prof. Wyladek Fiszdon, visiting porary art scene, Library Auditorium Freimann professor and the University of Warsaw, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:00 p.m.: College of Business Admin­Dinner Menus istration Lecture, "An Analysis of the Ef­fect of the 1983 Social Security Amend­Notre Dam.e ments on Individual and Family Equity,'' by Prof. Ed Outslay, Michigan State Uni­
Salisbury Steak 
versity, Room 20 Hayes-Healy 
Turkey Pot Pie 
4:15p.m.: Army ROTC Spring Awards, 
Tofu & Vegetables
Library Auditorium 
Clam Strip Roll 
5:00 -7:00p.m.: Social hour at H.l.'s Tavern, Niles, Michigan, Class of '88 
Saint Mary's
7:30 p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum of Art, "What is Art," Series Lecture, "Art in the 18th Century: From Rococo to Revo­Turkey Cutlet & Gravy lution," by Robert Eskridge, Dept. of Pork Chow Mein Museum Education, Art Institute of Swedish Pancakes Chicago, Annenberg Auditorium Deli Bar 

GE£1, FROH TilE 
/,JAY THEY ACT YOU(J THINK 
THEY WENT 11-0 
LAST 
\ 

"More worms? ... Saaaaaaaaay -why are you being so nice to me all of a sudden?" 
• 

The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 1 Struggle for air 
5 Speechify 10 Parent 14 Reboant sound 15 Sublease 16 Rara­17 O'Neill opus 20 Vast expanse 21 Culture 
medium 22 Atomizer 23 Shortly 24 Evaluate 26 G.B.S. product 32 Relating to 
a stem part 33 Cravat 34 Marquis de ­35 Actress Hagen 36 Encumbrances 38 Dairy queen? 39-sana in.•. 41 One-time 42 Separately 44 Sailor's ditty 

Cl1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
48 Subtle air 4/30/87
All Rights Reserved

49 Yemen money 50 Disdain Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 53 Numbers man: 11 Verify 
abbr. 12 Eastern bread 54 Oriental pot 13 Pale 57 Heavenly 18 Waterway 
being? 19 Bone: pref. 61 Bucolic way 23 Uterary 62 Bracken or collection 
Fisher 24 Destroy 63 Grab forty 25 "Tarzan of 
winks the-" 64 Fragrance 26 Tourists' spot 65 Planers 27 "A Bell for -" 66 Did in 28 Fulton's 
power source 
DOWN 29 Parrot 1 Obtains 30 Decorate 2 Yearning 31 Lizard-Hke 3 Mets' domain creature 
4/30/87

4 Oahu dish 32 Unfeeling 5 Medford's 36 Cowardly lion 43 Waraaw's 52 Wine: pref. 
state portrayer land: abbr. 53 Connectives 6 Send back 37 Virginia 45 Food fish 54 Knitting stuff 7 Winglike willow 46 North pole 55 Seep 8 Sawbuck 40 Bee at times region 56 Was aware 9 Common abbr. 42 "-which will 47 Recesses 58 Actor Beatty 
10 Treats live in 50 WWII site 59 Amin indulgently infamy" (FOR) 51 Afr. land 60 Drs. 


~------~--~--------------------~--------------~----------------------~ 
. 
Thursday, April 30, 1987 -page 16
S~orts 
Observer announces Krause Award winners 
Rivers' courage 
Phelps' squad pays dividends hits Sweet 16 
By RICK RIETBROCK By DENNIS CORRIGAN Assistant Sports Editor Sports Editor David Rivers finished as the Notre Irish men's basketball head coach Dame basketball team's second­Digger Phelps has been named the win­leading scorer and led the Irish in steals ner of the first Edward W. "Moose" and assists. But his statistics weren't Krause Award for Notre Dame Coach half the story. of the Year by the sports staff of The 
For his courageous comeback and Observer. sterling play in the NCAA Tournament, This is the first year that the award, 
. 
I Rivers has been selected by The Obser­which also goes to the outstanding male ver sports staff as the 1987 recipient of and female athletes of the year, also the Edward W. "Moose" Krause Award has been given in a coaching category. as the Male Athlete of the Year. Phelps' 16th Irish squad finished with 
Rivers survived a van accident in Au­a record of 24-8 and made the NCAA gust to lead the Irish to a 24-8 record, Tournament's Sweet 16. Additionally, and the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tourna­the Irish finsihed 20th in the final As­ment. Along the way, Rivers averaged sociated Press poll. All this for a team 

15.7 points per game, handed out 163 that Phelps said might only finish with 
I assists and registered 45 steals. 18 wins in the regular season. He was an honorable mention all­"Before the season, l said that there 
. 
~ 
American and was selected Most Cou­would be two games that would be im­
\ rageous Athlete by the United States portant," said Phelps. "One was 
\ Basketball Writers Association. against BYU, and the other was at 
\ "I think the season was a successful Utah. I thought we had to win those one," Rivers said. "We accomplished games and then get into the Tourna­more than a lot of people thought we ment on our strength of schedule. I would. The team was not as talented never thought we would win 22 games.'' as the previous year's team, with (Tim) Indeed, the Irish schedule was impos­Kempton, (Ken) Barlow and (Jim) ing this season with road dates at Dolan. We realized that and I think we Kansas and UCLA, as well as home 
-

worked harder because we were not as The Observer-File Photo dates against eventual NCAA cham­talented.'' Point guard David Rivers of the Notre male athlete at the school. The award pion Indiana, North Carolina, Duke and But much of the season was a Dame basketball team has been is voted on by The Observer sports DePaul -the latter three all in the 
awarded the Edward W. "Moose" staff. 
see RIVERS, page 11 see PHELPS, page 10

Krause Award for being the oustanding 
Record-setting guard Gavin is female athlete of year 
By MARTY STRASEN given annually to the outstand­Her season mark of 214 assists 11 points and 14 assists to ac­and I think that's really helped 
Assistant Sports Editor ing male and female athletes gave her the career record in company the 10 swipes. sists with the talent I play with at Notre Dame, and this year the same category with 535. She Gavin, however, overlooks here. I owe a great deal of my 
The 1986-87 Notre Dame wo­a coach's category has been also upped her career steals the personal accomplishments success to my teammates.I men's basketball season was added. record to 188 with a new season and prefers to focus on the suc­\ one of giving and taking away "I'm pretty excited," Gavin standard of 80. cess of the team, which went "We really came together asI for junior point guard Mary said. "I think it's an honor, es­12-15 on the season but won its a team at the end of the season, 
Gavin, as she established her­pecially here at Notre Dame. In addition to those career last six games. and I think that momentum will 
! 
self as the school's all-time There are a lot of women's and season records, Gavin es­help us out a lot going into next ) I leader in both assists and sports here, and to be singled tablished new game marks "I really don't put too much year. If we would have lost 
steals. out as athlete of the year has with 17 assists against Mar­weight on the records and per­some of those games, next! In honor of her accomplish­to make a person feel pretty quette and 10 steals in another sonal things," Gavin said. "If season probably would have ) ments, Gavin has been named happy." contest with the Warriors. In anything the assists are impor­started off like this last one did. 
s this year's winner of the Ed­Gavin, a native of North the latter-mentioned contest, tant because I've always grown· I don't want to speculate, but 
ward W. "Moose" Krause Wildwood, N.J., broke assist Gavin also became the first up with the idea of passing the we've got a full team returning Award by the sports staff of and steal records in game, player in Notre Dame history ball. People have always told and I think we've got some mo­The Observer. The award is season and career categories. to record a triple-double, with me not to be a selfish player, mentum going our way." 
Women's basketball won't be the same 
Allow me to set the stage for you. It's a typical day at the Notre Dame basketball offices. Early afternoon. Middle of the week. 
Marty 

~
..
Strasen r~*., " 
Assistant Sports Editor ,P "'..;;/ ': 

The women's basketball writer for The Observer walks through the front door, past a comfortable reception area and down the hall toward Irish head coach Mary DiStanis­lao's office. Usually he makes an appointment, but earlier today yet another player has decided to quit the team and he needs the story soon. 
Today he has a problem, however. Coach DiStanislao is busy with another player at the moment. It might be a while. A personal problem, no doubt, or maybe troubles in a class. It seems the Coach is never finished with that type of thing. If it isn't watching films of the last game 1 or going over some plays, it's counselling a player or I solving a personal problem. Well, maybe later for those 
• I
see COACH, page 12 
award-winner for female athletes at Notre

·------------------------------------------·----J 

The Observer-File Photo 
Dame. Gavin set many steal and assist records this past season. 



