~------------------~--------------------~------------------------------­
WSND-page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 132 TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing"Sotre Dame and Saint :\fa~ 's 

Austrian president barred from U.S. 
Associated Press Attorney General Edwin Meese III made the decision, 
WASHINGTON -Austrian which found that "a case of ex­President Kurt W aldheim is cludability exists with respect barred from entering the to Kurt Waldheim as an indi­United States because he aided vidual," the Justice Depart­in the deportation and execu­ment said in a statement. It tion of thousands of Jews and said he knew of and aided per­others as a German Army offi­secutions of Jews, other cer in World War II, the Justice civilians and partisans. Department announced Mon­In Vienna, Austrian Foreign t day. Minister Alois Mock said the 
decision produced "great dis­
Waldheim, who was United may," and the government Nations secretary general recalled Ambassador Thomas from 1972 to 1982, thus becomes Klestil from Washington for the first head of state ever consultations. Mock said it was placed on an Immigration unclear whether Chancellor Watchlist of 40,000 people, Franz Vranitzky would The ObserverMike Moran many of whom, like him, are proceed with a visit to the Getting his kicks 
excluded from the United United States planned for later As part of his blue-belt exam, a member of the his comrades, doing a running jump side kick States as undesirable aliens. this month. ND TaeKwonDo Club sails over the backs of at a helpless wooden board. 
•

Police arrest ND and SMC students Ill party raids 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 12:20 a.m. Saturday morning, a party after a complaint has In addition~ Julie McKeiver age, Kilgore said he would not News Editor according to Lieutenant Jack been received, Kilgore said. and Brad Pavloski of Grand release their names. Kilgore, spokesman for the Police then arrested Saint Rapids, Michigan were ar­Later Saturday, at 8:30p.m. Three separate raids by the South Bend Police Depart­Mary's students Carmella Gar­rested for being a minor con­police went to St. Louis St. after South Bend Police Depart­ment. ritano, 18, Ann Perri, 20, Lucy suming alcohol, according to receiving a complaint of per­ment, one involving the use of Kilgore said an undercover Hostetler, 18, Deborah Caiola, Kilgore. sons in the street and a large an undercover officer, resulted officer entered the party and 18, Erin Connor, 18, Tina Pupel, party at 713 St. Louis St., Kil­
in the arrests and issuance of purchased alcohol from Notre 18, and Lisa Coleman, 19, for Those arrested, Kilgore said, gore said. Notre Dame stu­citations to more than 20 Notre Dame student William Com­being a minor consuming alco­were transported by police dents Charles Mayer, 21, and Dame and Saint Mary's Col­ponovo, 18, who was then ar­hol, said Kilgore. cars and a police van to the Michael MacNulty, 22, were ar­lege students this past rested for the sale of an al­Also arrested for being a Saint Joseph county jail. rested for public intoxication. weekend. coholic beverage without minor consuming alcohol were Kilgore also said a 16 year­Notre Dame student Michael 
After receiving a complaint permission and being a minor Notre Dame students Douglas old and a 17 year-old Saint Varlotta, 21, was arrested for about a large party, South Bend consuming alcohol. Silfies, 19, Julie Johnson, 19, and Mary's student were cited for public intoxication and resist-police officers arrived at 814 It is a normal procedure to Mary Andreano, 20, Kilgore illegal posession and consump­
see ARRESTS, page 4

Corby St. at approxi mately send an undercover officer into said. tion of alcohol. Because of their 


Student identified in theft of Common Sense 
By CATHY STACY 
Assitant News Editor 
A suspect has been identi­fied in connection with the recent disappearances of Common Sense, according to the independent monthly's editor-in-chief Joe Merchant. 
"We've identified some­one who took (the papers), but we're still investigating the matter," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
Johnson said, "Apparent­ly, there has been an on­going problem with people taking issues and destroying them." 
Father Isaac McDaniel, a graduate student and mem­ber of Common Sense's edi­torial board, said he sta­tioned himself in the library lobby to monitor the stack of Monday's paper in hopes of preventing further thefts of issues. 
"I saw a guy walk through <the lobby) who looked around to see if anyone was looking and then grabbed a huge stack of papers," said McDaniel. 
McDaniel said he followed the student into an elevator, took the papers from him, and told him that the papers had to stay in the lobby. 
A half-hour later the same student ran through the lobby again and took more than fifty papers, according to McDaniel. McDaniel said he was unable to get on the elevator which the student entered. He said he took an­other elevator to the thir­teenth floor and searched each floor of the library until he found the student study­ing on the seventh floor. 
According to McDaniel, the student did not have the papers with him, and when McDaniel accosted him, the student said, "I've never seen your newspaper." 
Graduate student Tim Tibida identified the suspect as one of two students he had seen carrying a large stack of the papers in the Medieval Institute. 
"They seemed to be un­
see SENSE, page 3 



Student Activity Budget approved 
By GREG LUCAS treasuries, and the clubs' op­tribute posters for student gov­portunities for concession prof­ernment at cost. "Why should 
Senior Staff Reporter 
its at upcoming football games. the notion of being a business 

The Student Senate passed The Senate disagreed on the negate (Adworks) being a ser­the $392,000 1987!88 Student Ac­allocation of $2,430 to Adworks. vice to students and student tivity Fee Budget proposed last The controversy was centered government?" said Yeager. night by unanimous consent. on the role of Adworks in Stu­The Senate concluded that it 
A little more than $167,000 dent Government. will work through Adworks for was allocated to the clubs and According to Janel Blount, publicity but possibly at a classes, $152,620 went to the SAB manager, Adworks is a reduced rate, said Blount. Student Activities Board and branch of student government There was also discussion as $71,680 was alloted to student and also a profit-making busi­to the proper catagorization of government. ness. such special interests groups 
Funds are allocated on the Steve Yeager, chief of staff, as the NAACP and the Anti-basis of previous allotments, said that the role of Adworks 
see BUDGET, page 4

the amount left in the clubs' should be to produce and dis-

PLO office closed in retaliation 
Mubarak for his help in provid­tions belonging to it (in Egypt) 

Associated Press ing protection for PLO forces and will take the necessary CAIRO, Egypt -President evacuated from Lebanon fol­measures related to this," he Hosni Mubarak's government lowing the Israeli invasion of said. retaliated Monday against Lebanon in June 1982. Arafat Diplomatic sources said 
PLO criticism by shutting has visited Egypt several times seven offices of the PLO and down the organization's offices since then. related agencies were covered in Egypt. by the order. 
The break marks the most se­A statement read Monday by vere crisis between Egypt and Egyptian Foreign Minister Es­The closure was a response the Palestine Liberation Or­mat Abdel-Meguid implied that to resolutions passed at a week­ganization since PLO chair­Palestinian officials might be long meeting in Algeria of the man Yasser Arafat resumed expelled. Palestine National Council, the relations with Cairo in late "The Arab Republic of Egypt PLO parliament. The resolu­1983. has decided to close all offices tions referred to previous 
At that time, Arafat came of the Palestine Liberation Or­resolutions highly critical of personally to Egypt to thank ganization and the organiza-Mubarak's government. 

In Brief 
William Casey, former CIA ?irector, remains hospitalized, being treated for pneumoma. Casey, 74, was admitted Saturday to the intensive care unit of Glen Cove Community Hospital in critical ~ondition. A ~pokes'Yo~an said he was conscious. He was hsted as havmg asptrahon pneumonia, which is caused by fluid in the lungs. -The Observer 
Former U.S. presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter favor changes in the U.S. Constitution that would affect the length of a president's service, while Richard Nixon suggests a longer term for representatives, reported American Heritage magazine in an issue celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. The 22nd Amend­ment, which limits a president to two terms, should be repealed, said Ford. Carter believed a one six-or seven­year term in office would best serve the president. -The Observer 
CBS News has received permission to send nine correspondents to the Soviet Union to work on a documen­tary, the network announced Monday. "CBS Evening News" anchor Dan Rather will head a team of correspon­dents who will follow the lives of a range of Soviet citizens in Moscow, Leningrad and other cities. The two-hour, first­person style documentary will be broadcast in June, CBS said. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Dome 1987 distribution for those students who did not yet pick up their yearbooks will be on Thursday evening from 6 -8 p.m. in the Dome office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. This will be the last chance to pick up the yearbook. -The Observer 
"Last Lecture Series," sponsored by the SMC Student Government, presents Professor Max Westler from the English Department tonight at 7 p.m. in the Haggar College Center Parlor.-The Observer 
"SurvivingFinals Week" is the title of a workshop on test anxiety sponsored by the University Counseling Center. The second part of this workshop will be held tonight from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in room 300 of the University Counseling Center. -The Observer 

I 'Weather 
Improving conditions will mark the next few days. Morning sprinkles will end, and the high will struggle to reach 60, with partly cloudy skies. Lows tonight will dip to almost 40, but tomorrow will be partly sunny, with a high between 65 and 70. 

--Ihe-Obse~~or---·--­
----~-=·~'-' 
Design Editor ........... Kathy Huston Typesetter ............................ Jose Novas ......................................... Shawn Sexton News Editor ........................ Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ................ ...... Tim O'Keefe Sports Copy Editor ............ Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout........... Matt Zyniewicz 
Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty Accent Layout ......... Jane Anne Riedford Typist .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Colleen Foy Ad Design................... Mary C. Creadon ND Day Editor .......... Pratibha Tripathi SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Photographer ................. , .... Mike Moran 
The Obsernr (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. • 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Christianity or Hollywood production? 
Is anything holy any more? 
No, I am not about to talk about Saturday Night Live, process theology, or the American Civil Liberties Union. (I just assume that everybody knows that there is nothing holy about them). Rather, I had more in mind Oral Roberts, Jim Bakker, and Jerry Falwell. 
Now I am not about to jump on the media bandwagon just so I can join in the open-season of joke-making and mud-slinging, for I am not totally unsympathetic to the religious revival. I would agree that the much hyped "sexual revolution" is about as "revolutionary" as the orgies in Rome before it fell. Also, anybody who takes the time to read will discover some purely empirical problems with the theory of evolution as accepted today. 
But you don't have to be religious or "born again" to hold concerns or views like these. The fact of the matter is that if preachers on TV are so worried about a divorce rate of thirty percent, starvation in Africa, and the rise of the "Condom Generation," (as anybody has reason to be), their biggest problem is not the secular humanists. Their biggest problem is the three-ring circus that some people, especially charismatics like Roberts, Swaggart, and Bak­ker, have the audacity to call religion. 
Of course, Bakker's affair with Jessica Hahn and Roberts' "Your-money-or-your-life" depic­tion of God is already old news. Beyond these instances, however, even if they are isolated, I still have a problem with the approach of the televangelists in general. 
More often than not, the philosophy at work seems to be: if there's some really tacky way of capturing the hearts and minds of the people, go for it. T-shirts, preachy rock groups, cassette-recordings of sermons, telethons, car­toons... There is nothing in the Bible so sub­lime that it cannot be put on a bumper sticker or appear on a telethon, seems to be the rationale. 
In Old Testament times the Hebrews re­garded God's name as so sacred that they would never use it directly, subsituting instead Adonai or "Lord." Today the phrases "personal rela­tionship with God" and "Jesus loves you" are insisted upon so often and melodramatically that it sounds as if the minister is trying to psychoanalyze Him. Maybe I am the only one, but it seems to me like some evangelists are trying to turn the Bible narrative into a B­movie, with Charleton Heston playing God and keeping the sea parted as long as the donations. keep clinking in the collection plate. 
I once watched a show called "I Predict 1985," in which an evangelist named Lester Sumerall said he could could foretell everything 
Chris Julka 

Assistant News Editor r 

worthwhile that would happen in that year. Not only did he make the most dramatic predictions for that terribly boring year, but after each commercial one of those smooth, matter-of-fact television voices would introduce his predic­tions "as having been revealed to him by God." 
I almost expected someone to add at the end of the program, "This program has been brought to you by (guess who?) God: every­thing you wanted in a religion and less." 
The Ringling Brothers never had it so good. Through the miracle of television, the televan­gelists have become so successful that if P.T. Barnum were still alive, he would probably have to revise his saying to "There's a sucker born every tenth of a second." 
Now I don't want to go too far. Everybody knows that the members of the media worship John Lennon and Vladimir Lenin more than they do the Holy Trinity, so I don't want to give Christianity any worse of a press than it already gets. 
My question is, however, is this really Chris­tianity? Isn't there a way to spread the word without turning it into a cheap Hollywood pro­duction? 

....-... 1987 SUMMER SESSION..._--. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
The Summer Session is an excellent opportunity to supplement 
your academic year program at reasonable cost, only $88 per credit 
hour. 

--ADVANCE REGISTRATION-­
Advance Registration for the 1987 Summer Session is taking place now, April 23-30. Obtain the 1987 Summer Session Bulletin, which lists the courses available this summer, and the Summer Session Advance Registration Form from the Summer Session Office (room 310 Administration Building) and Departmental Offices. Summer Session Advance Registration Forms may also be obtained from Dean's Offices and the Registrar's Office. 
•DON'T DELAY -REGISTER TODAy.­
The Observer Tuesday, April 28, 1987 -page 3 
Reagan addresses trade, hopes to lift sanctions 
Associated Press Meanwhile, 12 members 
WASHINGTON of Reagan's Cabinet said President Reagan said they will recommend a veto Monday it's time to stop of sweeping trade legisla­
"hemming and hawing" tion scheduled to be about trade problems be­debated in the House of tween the United States and Representatives today "un­Japan and warned he has less substantial changes not ruled out imposing ad­are made." ditional sanctions against Tokyo to resolve trade dis­"Many provisions are so 
putes. contrary to our objective of opening markets that it 
Although saying he hopes would be impossible for us to be able to lift sanctions to recommend that he (theagainst Japan soon, Reagan president) approve the en­said, "We will do what is tire package in its present necessary to see that other form," said the Cabinet nations live up to their secretaries in a joint letter obligations and trading to House Speaker Jim agreements with us." Wright, D-Texas. 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the Viewpoint "Quote of the Day" Person 
Deadline is April 30. All applications and questions can be referred to Chris Murphy. 

THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 
PROFESSOR KERRY THOMAS 



"OIL AND WATER DON'T MIX" APRIL 28 8:00 PM MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

SMC progratn aired on cable 
By SANDY CERIMELE Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students are now producing a series of 30­minute television programs en­titled "Take One" that are being aired on Heritage Cablevision's community access channel. These pro­grams are the result of a new course offered by the Commu­nication and Theatre Depart­ment. 
Each semester, 12 students work together for three credit hours to write, produce, film and edit five shows that aired on community access channel 31 at 9 p.m. on March 19, April 2, 9, 23. The final show will air on April30. 
The "Take One" format is similar to that of the sydicated show "Entertainment Tonight." It contains four reg­ular features: "Community on the Spot," "Entertainment," "Community Service," and "Special Focus." 
Early segments this semes­ter have focused on the Farm­ers' Market, the South Bend School Corporation Radio Sta­tion, the Beach Boys' concert, the Special Olympics, Hotline, and alcohol on campus. 
"We used the Cable Policy Act of 1985 which requires all cable companies to provide a community access channel for any group to use free of charge, and we developed a course in conjunction with Heritage Cablevision," said Professor Ann Plamondon, chairman of the Saint Mary's Communica­tion and Theatre Department. 
Plamondin said that the pro­gram started last semester with a one-hour, one-credit Production course in which four students produced one pro­gram in the fall. She attributed the success of the program to the joint effort of Professor 

Aworld of 



opportunities. 
Master of Seienee in International Business. 
You can earn a Master of Science degree in Inter­national Business at Saint Mary's College of California in 12 months.of full-time study. The curriculum of this highly regarded program includes study in economics, finance, marketing, law and business strategy. Students can expect small classes, a highly qualified faculty, and a practical approach to business education. Graduates of this program have gone on to a wide variety of management positions in international and domestic businesses. 
Saint Mary's College is 21 miles east of San Francisco, making the cultural, social, and economic opportunities of the San Francisco Bay Area easily accessible to students. Admission to the program is competitive, but qualified candidates with degrees in any academic discipline are encouraged to apply. Classes start in October, 1987. For information, write to the Graduate School of Business, Saint Mary's College, P.O. Box M, Moraga, CA 94575 U.S.A. Or call (415) 376-3840. 
.,~~···\~ Saint Mary's College 
Ill~~~~ Graduate School of Business ~ Distinguished business education since 1868 Craig Hosterman of the Com­munication and Theatre De­partment and Gary Stephen­son, the programming coordinator of Heritage Cablevision. 
"The purpose of the program was to provide students with the hands on experience of working on a television show," said Hosterman. 
He said that the program has benefited three groups of people: "In addition to the stu­dents' experience, enthusiasm and awareness, the community benefits because content of the stories gives the interest groups publicity, and Heritage Cablevision benefits because the program provides an ex­panded schedule of offerings." 
Hosterman said that the slots are limited to 12 and broken down by class year and previ­ous experience in the program. "We reserve four slots for those students who have already taken the course to lead the others, four slots for juniors, and the remaining four can either be filled by juniors or seniors who have declared a communication major," he said. 

Sense 
continued from page 1 
familiar with the room, and one student turned to the other and asked where the garbage can was," he said. 
Tibida, who said he is not affiliated with Common Sense, had heard that there was a problem with papers disappearing and decided to follow the students into the hall. He said he asked them, "Are you going to throw those away?" They said the papers were • for their friends, according to Tibida. 
Tibida did not think much of the incident until he met McDaniel in the lobby. When they approached the stu­dent, who was still studying, he again denied ever seeing the papers, according to McDaniel. 
Tibida said he was upset to see students suppressing freedom of speech. 


Move Yourself, 
AllYour Staff, 
r"""'-ADd Save,Tool--.., 



It's as easyas nmting a Ryder truck, one way. 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester. 
Ifyou're 18 or older and baYe a valid driver'w license, you can use a Ryder truck, rent-it-here, le....,-lt-there. Load up your stereo, 10-speed, clothes; everything. You'll still baYe room, no doubt.for one or two friends with their things to share the coat. 
Compare that to the price or a plane ticket. Or even a bus. Plus shipping.Rent a newo:r truck from the best-maintained, most dependa­ble fleet In the world -Ryder. The best truck money can rent. 
2715 North Bendix, South Bend, Ind. 
(By the Airport) RYDER TRUCK RENTAL All students are given a 10% discount. 
IT'S RYDER, OR IT'S WRONG 
' 

Falwell considers resigning 
Associated Press that if he does the rest of the

SMC Board announces upcoming events 
board also might step down. 
By THERESA HARRINGTON News Staff 
The Student Committee on Campus Diversity received support from the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance Monday night. Jeanne Heller, the former Student Body President, started the committee three months ago to "make life on campus more like real life." 
With support from the Board of Regents, faculty and alumni, the group has grown considerably. 
According to Mary Kim Koch, the group's current 



Budget 
continued from page 1 
Apartheid Network because no money is to be allowed to groups of a political nature. 
Most of the senate members felt that the group was more educational than political. "I see this group as fostering awareness and I think that if you start cutting off aware­ness, you are making a bad precedent" said Diane Fitzgib­bon, next year's Senior Class President. 
Bruce Lohman, executive as­sistant to the former student body president, also announced the completion of the Board of Trustees report that will be presented in early May. 
"I think that the Board of Trustees report should be of the utmost importance in a senator's mind" said Cooke of this six month study of the stu­dent body consensus on the is­sues of foreign students, intel­lectual life of the undergraduate student and residential life. 
The Senate decided to dis­cuss the reports in an informa­tional meeting over the weekend, but not to attempt to edit the reports in any way. The issue over the mechanism of Senate approval was assigned to next years executive com­rnittee for review by Pat Cooke. 
"Regardless of how the process has been run in the past, we must concentrate on positive steps in the future" said Cooke. 

Arrests 
continued from page 1 
ing law enforcement, said Kil­gore. Varlotta refused an offi­cer's request and then had to be physically restrained, he added. 
Approximately five hours later, at 1:20 a.m. police returned to the scene after re­ceiving another complaint of a loud party outside the residence, according to Kil­gore. Upon arrival, police ar­rested Saint Mary's students Carolyn Gillespie. 21. for disor­derly conduct and public in­toxication and Sheila Kanehan, 22, for disorderly conduct. 
SOberingAdvice .··~ ca_nsa~e'..

alife /., ·. . 

director, "The long term ident Eileen Hetterich an­goals include attracting nounced an outdoor day of more minorities, older stu­fun in the LeMans courtyard dents, and women from from 1 -5 p.m., Saturday diverse religious back­May 2 at Saint Mary's. The grounds." event features entertain­ment by "The Law" and 
Koch said that the group "Freudian Slip" and free is "working on an exchange munchies. All SMC and ND program with ' a students are welcome. predominently black campus and a campus sur­Student Government is vey to assess the attitudes of also sponsoring "Ferris students and faculty" to Bueller's Day Off" in the begin next fall. Haggar College Game 
Room. The movie will be 
The upcoming events of shown at 7 and 9 p.m. every Student Government were night this week as well as at also discussed at the 11 p.m. on Saturday and Sun­meeting. Student Body Pres-day. Admission is 50 cents. 
~----------------------------, 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top la•n firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND" AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 *CLASSES *INDEPENDENT STUDY *NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS *TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Two members of the new board of the PTL ministry empire said Monday that its founder, the Rev. Jim Bakker, should not be allowed to return in spite of his threat of a "holy war" to regain it. 
The Rev. Bailey E. Smith said the board's chairman, the Rev. Jerry Falwell, is consid­ering resigning at Tuesday's board in Fort Mill and 
The Baptist evangelist from Oklahoma said his ministry and Falwell's have been hurt 
financially  because  of  their  
connection  with  the  scandal­ 
ridden PTL.  

Smith said from First Baptist Church in Del City, Okla., that he can't say exactly how much donations have decreased be­cause of the PTL scandal and his connection to it, but Falwell has said he has lost $2 million. 
LSAT 61.5-87 ! KAPLAN 

Happy Birthday Jenny Uber 4-28-87 Big "21" Once a Champion Always a Champion God Bless You! Love, Mom, Dad, Liz Cate & Bill  
THEBQ3;8.SHOPPE  
PACKING. SHIPPING. STORING. MOVING. BOXES. W•W w,.lt, lloxlt, 1WA lt. SAIIplt • •• To Meet YOUR St-Cr.. • MOVING BOXES PACKAGE SHIPPING • GIFT BOXES MAILING TUBES •STORAGE BOXES LOOSE PAKING MATERIAL •GIFT & PACKAGE SHIPPING ENVELOPES WRAPPING AND CONT A INTERS .,..,,., JIISI 0./kuOr A Tr...u.ltd, .. 1/ Wf'l)!M., H.wIt Wr Cflll tJrt/1.! WI'Atr AM~ DdtnbeaiDr ~01 ,._. 8Gp' tlolfll/llt111trfl . .. Altd Tlwt AINIU C...,.,ntrw ~!  
HoursNext to TAN HAWAIIAN JMS Plazaand UNCLES IRISH PUB 10 AM-6 PM M-F 4690 Grape Road Aak about our delayed 10 AM-2 PM Saturday Mishawaka, IN 46545 ahlpplng of packagea 277-97n UPS Federal Express  

BE A PART OF WELCOMING THE CLASS OF 1991 ! Applications for the Freshman Orientation 

----..... 






"ieVV~_O_i_n__t______________
Tu-esda-y,Ap-ril28_.198-7-pa-ge5 
Homosexuals in need 
of more understanding 
The following is the second in a series. fun. We're just like normal everyday people." 
Sometimes, when straight women Christopher is offended by the preju­discover that Sarah is a lesbian, it dice and the stereotypes. "We're not makes them immediately uncomfort­out to get anybody. I'm not about to put able. "The commonly held attitude, I on a dress. I'm not about to molest a 
think, is that lesbians are out to seduce child. It's disgusting. I'm just as any woman in sight, and that's just revolted by it as anyone else. I'm just blatantly untrue." as anti-pornographic as many people on this campus." Jenifer Naughton Gays and lesbians are said to be promiscuous. Their sexuality is what guest column distinguishes them, so people tend to think that they are just out for sex." There is a risk of rejection in any Steve admits that a lot of gay people relationship. Nobody wants to be sleep around, ''but so do a lot of straight rejected. "If you're a lesbian trying to people. Most gay people I know do not develop something with a straight wo­sleep around and are not promiscuous. man who is not open to it, you know I still consider myself a Christian, and you're going to be rejected. It's not whether I'm straight or gay, I don't something you set yourself up for if you think that type of behavior is necessar­have a brain in your head." ily good. So we're not all that type. Myths about homosexuality persist. People don't realize that we experi­People are curious, but often ill­ence the same emotions, just being with informed and afraid to show an inter­somebody we like. And falling in love est. Stereotypes are merely incomplete with someone, it's the same thing. I and harmful explanations, dismissing guess. I can't say what it's like for a people in a word: queer, dyke or faggot. straight person." Gay men are not all sissies. Straight Chris has fallen in love. Ask him how men are not all macho. he is and he smiles, blissfully. He and "The effeminate gay men that you John have been together for quite some see," Sarah says, "are just a fringe of time and they are very happy, very the entire male population. The romantic. majority of gay men that I know, you They plan to get married. Both 
would not be able to tell by looking at believe in monogamy, and they take them. That's obviously the case since their relationship seriously. "John and most of them are, you know, they're all I consider our relationship sacramen­around you." tal. God is definitely present. Some 
Steve is very aware of the people will hear that and be totally stereotypes. He is very conscious of revolted, and I'm really sorry, but how he acts and what he wears. He tries that's the way it is. to act straight. "Just in the time we have been to­
"I was always afraid if I'd wear gether, we have grown so incredibly something that wasn't real conserva­much. If we hadn't then there would be tive that people would make assump­something wrong. Ifit was just a physi­tions. Not that I wear blouses, or cal relationship, then there would be anything, but you have to be careful." problems. But it's not. There's a con­
Richard sees Notre Dame as being a tinued challenging of each other to be particularly difficult place to learn better persons." about homosexuality. "I think the rea­Chris does not try to hide his relation­son that I became so aware of the prej­ship with John, but neither does he an­udice here was because it contrasted nounce it. The risk is still too great. so much with my seminary experience. People still make gay jokes, without It was really when I got into seminary realizing who they might be hurting. that I realized I was gay, and I think I People might not be ready to see two accepted it because I met so many men holding hands in front of other people who were gay, too. I found O'Shaughnessy or Dillon. that a lot of people I really admired "If gay people here were much more were gay. open, maybe other people would not be 
"The big question people have in antagonistic, would not be intentionally seminary about being gay is whether cruel -call people names or embarrass or not one wants to go ahead and get them," Steve supposes. "I wouldn't be ordained and be celibate, or to live out afraid of getting beat up or anything, some other kind of lifestyle. The big but I do think people here would be very question here is whether or not it's even cold. In a sense, that's being antagonis­human at all." tic. They would probably just try not to 
Steve is a bit baffled by the hostile associate with us, maybe for their own ignorance. "If people would try to sake, so that people might not think realize what being gay is like, and they were gay. It's hard to say. maybe realize that it's not easy here. "I wish people wouldn't be scared of But they dismiss the thought and don't us. It sure would make life a little hap­worry about it. But if they would just pier." realize that we're very normal people. You know, I like going to football Jenifer Naughton is a senior American games. And going to parties and having Studies major. 
Doonesbury 


P.O.BoxQ 
Doctrinal authority open to interpretation 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to thank Jerry Walls for sharing his experiences of Catholics here at Notre Dame (The. Observer, Apr. 23). I would like to point out, however, that his understanding of Catholic doctrinal authority is incor­rect. As he understands it, "its official teachings are guaranteed to be infal­lible, particularly when the pope or an­other ecumenical council exercises "extraordinary magisterium" when making doctrinal or moral pronounce­ments." Mr. Walls could change the word "particularly" to "only". 
Church teachings are only "guaranteed to be infallible" when the pope speaks ex cathedra ("from the chair") on matters of faith and morals with the intention of binding the whole church. This is a very infrequent oc­currence. In lay terms infallible state­ments are literally "not wrong". Infal­libility does not insure that a particular statement is an adequate expression or even an appropriate formulation of truth. There is plenty of room for growth. To remain Catholic, one may not insist that an infallible statement is wrong, however Catholics may dis­agree with non-infallible church teach­ings and remain true to their faith. 
Not all official teachings carry the force of infallibility. The Declaration of Religious Freedom of the Second Vatican Council clearly states that the "Christian faithful ought carefully to attend to the sacred and certain doctrine (church teaching) of the Church." but as Fr. McBrien states in his book, "Catholicism", "If, after ap­propriate study, reflection and prayer, a person is convinced that his or her conscience is correct, in spite of a con­flict with the moral teachings of the Church, the person not only may but must follow the dictates of conscience 
Garry Trudeau 
rather than the teachings of the Church." It is also worth noting, as McBrien does, that the Church has never explicitly claimed to speak infal­libly on a moral question. 
I am happy to hear that the conclu­sions of Lutheran-Catholic dialogue of 1978 are being lived out here at Notre Dame. I am glad that Mr. Walls in con­versations with Catholics finds our views differing little from his own. The matter does not surprise me. The term "functional protestant" does not of­fend, and is often appropriate. Fr. Burtchaell, in disagreeing with a cer­tain non-infallible church doctrine, might be a functional protestant, or he might just be a good Catholic. Margaret 
E. Payne Lyons Hall 



Checkmarking takes courtesy and order 
Dear Editor: 

In a wonderful display of Christian­ity, Notre Dame students have once again pushed, shoved, trampled and deprived one another of oxygen to get their theology courses. We are two of the lucky ones to have escaped Stepan Center with both of our lives and the checkmarked theology courses of our choice. Not that it was like a Who con­cert or anything, but one of us had to crawl under the registration table just to get out of there. 
Do you think they could put up ropes or barbed wire, (or maybe even just two tables side by side, like the English department did) so there could be a line, and those who get there first could register first? 
In the meantime, is there any possi­bility that we could all learn something 
before  we  graduate  -like  courtesy,  
maybe?  
Maria Gerace  
Walsh Hall  
Polly Carl  
Lyons Hall  


Quote of the dayRON HEAPREST TESTRtJN, TC5T 
RUN/ /XJRUN, RIJN! OPeN RR/3, 
"Lean on me, when you're not strong, and I'll be your friend ­I'll help you carry on. For it won't be long, 'till I'm going to need ­somebody to lean on." 
Bill Withers "Lean On Me" 


Too many people waste time being serious 
In previous columns, I have dealt with many important issues. But no topic has been more significant than today's: people who take themselves too seriously. You've seen them in the classroom, on the quad and in your dorm. You've wanted to grab them by the shirt and say, "Hey, pal, give us a break!" People who take themselves too seriously have lost perspective on life. They fail to realize they are just an insignificant speck of cosmic sand in somebody's big sandbox. Someone must inform them of this before they completely waste their lives. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 

Many people in the real world obvi­ously take themselves too seriously: fundamentalist preachers, MTV VJ's, movie critics, aerobic instructors, daytime talk-show hosts, America's cup fans, Joan Rivers, Dr. Ruth, and the list could go on forever. You may be saying to yourself, "What does this have to do with me?" Well, fellow domers and domettes, a few of you have been leaning a little too much to the serious side lately, and I thought you might like to know about it. 
First of all, some athletes take them­selves too seriously. You know the ones, they flash Oak Room coupons like credit cards, walk with a strut that would put Hulk Hogan to shame, and wear a wardrobe stolen from the ACC Issue Room. Fellas, lighten up, huh? We all realize your extreme importance to our school. You really don't have to constantly remind us about it. Relax that strut, walk slightly hunched like the rest of us. Go return those stolen turf shoes, they look silly anyway. (By the way, my address listed in the phone book is incorrect, so don't even bother looking for me.) 
R.O.T.C. people. Let me tell you right now, you look downright silly running around in those matching outfits, talking about field maneuvers and call­ing each other "Mr." or "Miss" so-and­so. Let your hair down every now and then. Oh, I'm sorry, it's too short for that. Well, urrt, let it grow a little. Take down your Reagan, Ollie North and Rambo posters and listen to the song "Even of Destruction." But, most of all, please call each other by your first names. 
People who like to study in the 'brar. Puh-leese, try and relax. This is col­lege, remember? You know, irrespon­sibility, irrationality and inconsis­tency? We're supposed to have fun, here. Ten years from now, that four on that Emil isn't going to mean squat. Relax. Blow off work for an entire night. Go into class the next day com­pletely cold and fake it like the rest of us. For a change, get a good night's sleep (remember those)? And for crying out loud, stop having your meals in the pit, it's not good for your health. 
Skateboarders and hacky-sackers. 'Nuff said. 
P.L.S. majors. Stop trying to argue about everything! Don't discuss Aris­totle's Poetics like we discuss Moon­lighting. Stop talking about Sartre as if he were still alive. Do me a favor. Put down your Plato and dig into a juicy Harold Robbins paperback. Every now and then, when embroiled in an argu­ment, just say, "Who cares?" Go up to a friend in R.O.T.C. and say, "You know, I think Alexander Haig is a viable candidate for president." I know that's asking a bit much, but think of the look on their face when you say it. 
The people in Student Government. It is a noble gesture folks, but on this campus you carry about as much weight as a contraceptive salesman. Please stop promising to make the so­cial life better if you can't deliver. You can make chicken salad out of chicken... feathers. Realize there is only one president on this campus, and it's not the one that gets elected every year. Don't take it seriously. The last guys did a great job because they didn't take themselves too seriously. Learn from them. And don't try to tell us you didn't run to pad the old resume. 

Senior business majors. I would really appreciate it if you put away your personalized Big 8 business cards. Stop babbling about marginal profit and your first BMW. Stop being so bloody efficient. Go waste some time by the lake. Bounce a check. Do some­thing wild before your times becomes surgically attached to your neck. Above all, stop praying that the 22nd Amend­ment is repealed so that Reagan can run again. 
Dining Hall workers. If we pay all this money to go here, we shouldn't be harassed if we try to smuggle out the occasional loaf of bread or box of Cap-' tain Crunch. It's not as if we're taking money out of your pockets. And what's it to you if we want to take two entrees at the same time. Mter all, we are paying for it! So wipe that sneer off your face and by all means, don't get so excited for these theme meals, we sure don't. 
Some professors take themselves too seriously. We are tired of hearing about your latest publication and your grant to teach at some less socially strict school. And try to remember we are college students. Try to realize we are not going to prepare for every class. Go find your college yearbook. Look at the pictures of your friends. Did they knock themselves out all the time? Of 
course not. Did you? Let's be truthful, 
now. You turned out alright, so cut us 
some slack. 

The people who censor student publications. Folks, we are adults and we can really decide for ourselves what is dirty and what is clean. Please realize that "ambiguous" is not a four letter word. We are big boys and girls now. Let us run our own publications. Take a break. Go sit through a double feature at the Pussycat theatre. Visit the Linebacker Inn on lingerie night. Listen to the album "American Prayer" by the Doors. Live and let live, huh? ' Notre Dame Security. Just because 
you have a tin badge does not make 
you a descendant of Wyatt Earp. Do 
you really expect us to take· you 
seriously when you wear those silly 
hats and ride around on bicycles? Give 
the macho bit a break. Let our cars on 
campus every now and again. If we are 
passed out on the steps of the Archy 
building, let us sleep. And please, stop 
kicking us off of the quad when we want 
to play stickball. 

If I've forgotten anyone else, hope­
fully they will get the message by 
reading this. If you feel offended by the 
article, you might be taking yourself a 
bit too seriously. Relax. If you feel 
you're beginning to take yourself too 
seriously, write a letter to Fr. Ted tel­
ling him black is not his color or tell 
your parents you think Charles Manson 
deserves another chance or do someth­
ing just as stupid. Don't think about it, 
just do it. You'll feel a whole lot better. 
Oh my, I almost forgot to mention a 
group of people who really take them­
selves much too seriously. 
Observer columnists. 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore English major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 



P.O.BoxQ 
Students urged to eat in respective halls 
Dear Editor: 
With the advent of finals on the horizon, a great number of students will be taking to the library for endless hours of power studying in preparation for exams. Unfortunately, most ofthese students also decide to eat at North Dining Hall while they are studying at the library. There are typically greater concentrations of students at North Dining Hall during finals than at any other time of the year. 
North Dining Hall cannot withstand the mass influx of students during finals without tremendous lines. With this in mind, I proposed a resolution at the first meeting of the 1987-1988 Stu­dent Senate to formally restrict stu­dents of each quad to their respective dining halls (to have been decided by Food Services in the most equitable manner possible) during the final ex­amination periods, and only during these periods, in order to alleviate the frustrating problem of the mass influx of students to the North Dining Hall during finals. 
The resolution could have easily been implemented via the computer check­ing system and I was assured it would have been implemented had there been considerable student support for it. Un­fortunately, I could not generate enough support for the resolution as many members of the Senate viewed it as an unnecessary restriction of freedom and simply another burden­some rule thrown onto the heap of already a plethora. 
The resolution was not intended to create another, more pervasive prob­lem, disharmony or inter-quad schism, but was meant to be mutually benefi­cial to both North and South quaders alike in light of this. The resolution was amended to make it a suggestive rather than a binding one and then it. was passed unanimously. Essentially, we are strongly urging the students of each quad to eat at their respective dining halls, that is, where they usually eat the majority of their meals, during the final exam period (and only during this period) in order to alleviate the prob­lem of the mass influx of students from the library to North Dining Hall during finals. A short walk from the library back to South Dining Hall during finals' 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
week will save you from wasting time in long lines at North Dining Hall and from unnecessary frustration during an already tension-filled time. 
Let's try to keep finals week as pleas­ant as possible. 
Steve Viz Student Senator 

Charity Ball continues fight against hunger 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to sincerely thank all or­ganizations and individuals who helped to make the Third Annual NDSMC Charity Ball a continued success. The beneficiary of the Ball is Catholic Relief Services, which aids Third World Countries. The funds generated will be used to nourish lives blemished by the tragedy of malnutrition. 
The Ball, which is a black-tie event, was held on April 4 in the South Dining Hall. Entertainment was provided by Shenanigans, the Law, and the Pat Heiden Jazz Quartet of Chicago. This diversity of talent and showmanship truly added class to the Ball. Atten­dance at this year's event was diminished significantly because of many Hall formals and parties. However, the tradition of the NDSMC Charity Ball continued strongly, pro­viding a fun-filled soiree for all who were present at this gala of music, dance, refreshments, and "Life." 
Life was the celebrated theme of the Ball, which is indicative of the sharing, growing Christian community present at our University. The goal of the Ball is to raise consciousness about World Hunger. We, as a God-fearing commu­nity, should be more involved in bring­ing resources, and new agricultural technology to underdeveloped countries who lack this knowledge. Our Ball is a step in the proper direction, which the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family must make in order to eliminate this evil -World Hunger. 
So, if one person was inspired to give a donation or pray for the end of hunger, then the Charity Ball has been a suc­cess. I firmly believe that our prayers, thoughtfulness, and selflessness will extinguish the flames of World Hunger. 
Danny L. Harrison Founder/Chairman Charity Ball 

General Board 

Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1968 
Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
----~ 




Accent 
Tuesday, April 28, 1987 -page 7 
WSND brings flair to campus radios 
THERESA LOOMIS features writer 
11fmt do the call letters VVWSND bring to mind? Un­fortunately, a majority of Notre Dame students are not even aware of the station located in the clock tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall. However, 
88.9 on the FM dial has much to offer--Including a wide range of both music and opportunity. 
The station Is run through 
the Offlce of Student Activities 
just as the Dome, Juggler, and 
Scholastic are, with most posi­
tions filled by undergraduates. 
Station manager Jessie Pesta, a 
junior, said although he Is ul­
timately responsible to Student 
Activities, the staff works as a 
group. 
WSND possesses some notable characteristics which distinguish It from the other stations and publications under the jurisdiction of the Offlce of Student Activities. It Is licensed by the FCC and, as a public station, Is non-commercial. Since It cannot accept advertis­Ing. broadcasts are paid through underwriting. At the end of a program the business which helped with funding Is recognized as the underwriter and therefore publicized. 
The Offlce of Student Activi­ties funds the station primarily, but two annual fund drives raise additional money neces­sary to the station's operation. These drives consist of sending a pamphlet and program guide to the approximately 1400 Indi­viduals on the mailing list. Premiums, such as tickets to the upcoming production of Macbeth for those giving $ 15, encourage donations. 
The large mailing list high­lights another of WSND's unique characteristics. The sta­tion, whose tower broadcasts within a 35 mile radius 365 days of the year, directs pro­gramming toward an off campus audience. In fact. WSND has led the area in fine arts broadcasting. Since it Is on the air year-round, including vacations, the station employs a considerable number of pro­fessors, graduate students, and summer students. 
Even though the station does cater to an adult off-campus audience, Pesta wishes It were better known on campus. He regrets that the term "classical" often carries connotations of boredom, loftiness, or even slight repugnance in the stu­dent mind. 
Classical music featuring the New York Philharmonic, the Chicago Symphony, the San Francisco Symphony, and se­lections from Oberlin Col­lege(to name a few) are the norm on weekdays between 7 
a.m. and 10 p.m. However, the strict "classical" label does not reflect the variety offered by this fine arts and educational station. 
On weekdays from 7 to 8 
p.m. the Macneil Lerher News Hour Is simulcast with WNIT channel 34. The I 0 to I 2 p.m. 
weeknight time slot Is filled by Jazz Galleries on Monday and Friday, Irish music on Tuesday, Big Band music on Wednesday, and Broadway music on Thursday which ranges from 50's classics to selections from "Cats." 
Classic rock. new age music, and progressive music also fill the air waves while requests to the station and community. "Notre Dame in Review" pro­vides news of Notre Dame and St. Mary's on topics of Interest to outsiders. Furthermore, director Mike Tarm conducts interviews of people ranging from Fr. Hesburgh to Afghanis-situated In the pressbox of the 

football station originally and then later in the old fieldhouse. More recently it shared its pres­ent position with WVFI. At one time the two were more closely affiliated but they now have seperate station managers and 

are often played on 
weekends. "Nocturne 
Nightfiight" is WSND's most well-known show. On weeknights from 12 to 2 p.m. it specializes in more modern rock and occasionally follows themes. Next year reggae and British punk will be added to the station's format. 
Programming also includes informational segments unique tan's Minister of the Interior. WSND has added several of the aforementioned shows this year and will continue expand­ing their format as they build up their record collection. 
Station manager Jessie Pesta's wish is that a greater number of students come to realize where WSND is located and what it has to offer. Accor­ding to him, the station was are totally distinct. 

WVFI's move to Lafortune has opened up much needed space for WSND. The additional room will enable groups such as quartets or local bands to perform live on the air and will facilitate continuing expansion and renewal. However, Pesta remarked, "I am afraid we might become more removed from students' minds because 
we are not in Lafortune. It is 
Important for people to realize 
that we're here." The station 
publicizes Itself through 
posters, ads In the Observer, 
and Information presented at 
Stepan Center during the Initial 
part of the school year. 
Although the staff includes 
over I00 Individuals, people 
are still needed to ensure prog­
ress. Presently, the concern 
regards summer DJs. 
Newswrlters, newsreaders, and 
DJs will be needed next year. 
After Initial involvement In 
those three main positions 
people can move up to direct­
ing the news and assisting In 
management. 

"Since we deal firsthand with people outside the university, In certain ways opportunities here are more practical and closer to real life," commented Pesta. "It Is unfortunate that people get the idea they don't want to get involved because they feel they don't know enough. We are more than will­ing to talk to anyone Interested In working. learning. having fun, and doing a good show." 
Obviously, Notre Dame's claslcal music station plays more than the "1812 Over­ture." WSND Is worth looking Into for opportunities and equally worth tuning into for musical diversity and enjoy­ment. 
Cable TV lives in a state of Grace 
GINA CAMARENA features writer 
K
eenan has its "Review," Fisher has Its "Regatta," and Grace Hall has "Grace Vision"--a dorm broadcasting station exclusively for Grace Hall residents. What began a few years ago as one of Rector Lardner's pet projects has now been popularized into a dorm identity. "I have only received positive responses about (Grace Vision) said program director and Grace resident Ed Trifone. 
Since Grace is equipped with a cable antenna every room is capable of receiving cable broadcasting including the Chicago stations. In ad­dition, last year's installment of a VCR into the system allows for more possibilities in programming. "Right now we're at the beginning stages but everything is going well--there is so much potential," said Trifone. Cur­rently, Trifone and approxi­mately 15 other Grace resi­dents are responsible for the broadcasting. but Trifone is encouraging more people to get involved so that Grace Vision can become an "or­ganizational structure with goals and guidelines clearly defined." Staff member Bill Dunn also agreed that "freshmen need to get in­volved because we need someone to pass it on to." 
With Grace Vision, hall residents have a unique sense of community which differs from other dorms on campus. For example, Grace athletes that might seldom receive recognition are pre­sented in video through Grace Vision's broadcasting of intra-and inter-hall sports events. Regular features that viewers can enjoy are Wed­nesday night social aware­ness film series and a con­tinuous display of up-to-date dining hall menus, bus schedules and announce­ments. 

fane commented that this was a good way to visually associate everyone with the candidates. 
This semester "Sunday Night Live" made its debut as a flrst-time attempt for a live show, and positive responses have made it a 
success. Hall residents have 
their chance to capture the 
audience with their original 
videos and talent shows. 
Call-ins, raffles, and trivia 

However, the program­ming of special events Is what has given Grace Vision its popularity. Much of the recent fame is attributed to the presentation of Keenen Review, Grace hall elections, and the new variety show "Sunday Night Live." For the first time Grace expanded its hall elections this year to include speeches, commer­cials and election results of the candidates on video. All of the candidates had the opportunity to broadcast a three-minute speech and an original television commer­cial six minutes or less as part of their campaign. Tri­

questions are also part of the programming that keeps the viewers Involved. One of the goals for Grace Vision is to get increased participa­tion from the residents. "We need ideas," said Trifone, "and we want to get more people involved." 
Trifone likes to broadcast a variety of shows to main­tain a diverse Interest. Up­coming special broadcasts Include Hesburgh Week which will present Father Hesburgh's Interviews on 60 Minutes and Phil Donahue. Also on the agenda is a boxing special showing dorm residents In Bengal Bout action. Already, Trlfone 
and others have plans to 
expand the programming 
and technology next year. 
Additional features might 
Include videos from students 
in the communication and 
theater department showing 
their performances for final 
projects and certain events. 
Trlfone believes that the 
hard work of these students 
Is too often unrecognized. 
Staff members are already planning to make Improve­ments with the system beginning next year. A likely collaboration with WVFI will enhance the audio and vis­ual effects of the broadcast· lng. Also, a "new or revised computer system will In­crease our capabilities for special effects," said Trlfone. Special effects and a possi­ble display of personal ad­vertisements will improve the announcements next year. A new television moni­tor might also be placed in Grace's lobby so that those who don't live In Grace can experience Grace Vision. 
Trifone believes that within time everyone on campus will be able to enjoy their own dorm station. A campus-wide system could begin with the Pasquerlllas and Flanner Halls and later expand to include the remaining dorms. "Right now we're just realizing our capabilities," said Trlfone, but the continued progress of Grace Vision is "what makes us a step ahead of everyone else." 
The Observer Tuesday, April 28, 1987 -page 8 


Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball referees must return shirts and whistles Wednesday, April 29, from 3-4 p.m. in the An Tostal Office (2nd Floor LaFortune). All pay will be distributed at that time. -The Observer 
Trivia Ni~ht Finale! Tonight, on WVFI AM-64, Rudy Brandl hosts his final edition of "Speaking of Sports," a special two-hour trivia extravaganza. Guest hosts include Frank Mastro, Kevin Herbert, Rick Rietbrock and Sean Pieri. Callers with correct answers will be awarded Wendy's food coupons. Call 239-6400 to participate in this sports bonanza. -The Observer 
In major league baseball Monday, only three National League games were played. Houston rocked the Mets, 11-1, San Francisco defeated Atlanta, 7-3, and Montreal beat Philadelphia, 6-4. -The Associated Press 

Sweet-C Robinson a Notre Dame staff member, won the Indiana state middleweight kick-boxing title Sat­urday. Robinson, who won the Michigan state title last year, defeated John Poe for this year's Indiana crown. 
-The Observer 

The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting for ~ll those interested in trying out this fall on Thursday, April .30, at 4:30 on Green Field. No previous marching expenence necessary. Must be at least 6-2. For more in­formation, call Mick at 1770. -The Observer 
In NHL playoff action last night, Toronto nipped Detroit, 3-2, in overtime to take a 3-1 lead in the Norris Division series. Also, Edmonton sweeped it's Smythe Divi­sion series with a 4-2 win over Winnipeg. -The Associated Press 
Kings name head coach 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Bill Russell, five times the NBA's Most Valuable Player and player-coach of the World Champion Boston Celtics during the 1960s, was named head coach of the Sacramento Kings on Monday. 
Russell has not coached in the NBA since he left the Seattle Supersonics in 1977. 
Russell, 53, was selected the greatest player in the history of the NBA in 1980 by the Pro­fessional Basketball Writers' Association of America. 
The ObeMw. Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObeMw. Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Co~ige Center,_ accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadlme for next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 
UNIVERSITY RESUME Professional Resumes Student Rates Near the Mall 272-6336 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­Non-texts for $$$k:redit next fall. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS. 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 10-530, ph. 233-2342 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, word processing avail­able. Reasooable $. 277-5833. 
IF YOU ARE A OJ OR BAND RETURN­ING NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CONTACT ANNE AT 1675 YOU WILL BE PUT ON A LIST TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO ALL HALL PRESIDENTS 
. 
LOST/fOUND I 
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES (LADIES} in a soft black case on North Quad Tuesday night. Call Craig (not Dave, Greg, Greg, Dan or Joe) at ND­1694 
FOUND: A BASKET BALL. ON BOOKSTORE COURTS ON MONDAY, APRIL 13TH. IF IT IS YOURS , CALL MIKE AT 1657. 
LOST MEN'S GOLD COLOR WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND. IT WAS MY CHRISTMAS PRESENT. DOES NOT HAVE MUCH STREET VALUE, BUT PLENTY OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME IF SHE FINDS OUTI POSSIBLY LOST BE­TWEEN MORISSEY AND KEENAN LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL RAFAEL AT 3348, OR DROP OFF AT LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. 
Lost Faded Out Jean Jackel at Theodore's on April23 . I think there was a mix-up -yours is in the Lost and Found in La Fortune. It has sentimental value to me!llll Please contact Cindy at SMC £4219. 
Lost: HANDMADE SILVER PEACE SIGN EARRING, possibly in the ACC fencing gym two weeks ago. Extreme sentimental value. II found please call 284·4338 Caitlin 
HELP!!! I LOST MY WALLET AT SMC THURSDAY NIGHT DURING THE MR. CAMPUS COMPETITION. I THINK IT WAS LOST IN THE MENS RESTROOM IN ANGELA. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE CONTACT ME (154 DILLON OR £4783). YOU CAN HAVE THE MONEY AS A REWARD. RON FLYNN 
HEYIIII TO WHOEVER SAVED MY CAMERA FROM BEING DIPPED IN MUD ALONG WITH ME---THANKSI!I BUT, PLEASE, I NEED IT BACK NOW. CALL ME AT 272-9361. -THE GIRL WITHOUT A NfKON 
I WANT MY JEAN JACKETI!III IF YOU "MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY NIGHT, I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY 10!). PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT BACK·..·NO HARD FEELINGS. MONICA £1337 
HELPI I LOST MY GOLD NECKLACE AND CROSS ON STEPAN FIELD DURING THE AN TOSTAL PICNIC. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE; REWARD OFFERRED. CALL CHRIS COOKE AT 3286. THANK YOUII 
I lost my NO ring at the picnic at SMC Thursday of AnTostal, possibly in or near the green jello. It's a men's ring, initials RWH. Please call 3083. 
lost. ..a gold loop earring somewhere near Sorin, Lewis and Stepan Courts on Friday. Sentimental Value If found, call x2297. Reward. 
To the person who took my denim jacket on Thurs night at Cleveland and Hol­lyhock, thank you for returning my 1.0. but I would appreciate getting my jacket back. No questions will be asked. Please call me at 4553 
LOST: Light tan LONDON FOG jacket mistakenly taken !rom Senior Bar last Fri.nile. Size: 38 Reg. If you have it please call John x3667. 
LOST: CANON TX 35mm CAMERA sometime Saturday, 425, probably at Blu&Gold game, aboult/.2 way up in Sec. 
7. II was in a black camera case, woven strap(orange, black, grey,) no lens cap. Filled with Kodak color film, 400 ASA. University team photos on film and needed DESPERATELY!!!! This has be.en part of my life for over 1o years; please don't take if from me now. No questions asked. Call Katie at 239­5200(day) or 232-5238 (evenings.) 
LOST: light blue book bag containing Electronics, Physics, and Calculus books. Prescription glasses are also in­side. Lost at South Dining Hall during lunch on Monday. Please return to Vince 2578 
r----------...,
I 


FORRENT 
sbedroom 4·6 students $40(}500 & utilities. Security system 234 6688 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­8889 
FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277· 3684288·0955 
........................ 
SUMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL 
2 BAs remaining in large 
house on NO Ave. Call 
255-5852 or 234-6661 
Apt. for rent this summer Call Heidi 233-4176 
....... ......... . STUDENT HOUSES 2, 5, and 6 man houses on Corby available for next year. Call Chet at 234· 7664 

WANTED 
W~RK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 683-8889 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 914-381-4224. 
................................................................ 
Earn $2500-4000. Gain unbeatable busi­ness experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar­keting Director lor Campus Connection, our nationally expanding, innovative ad­vertising guide. Currently at 42 univer­sities ·we'll provide complete training, materials, and support. Call Chris Kelsey, Manager, at (805) 564·1260 for complete information. Ideal for amb~ious, person­able freshmen-junior. Start earning in May. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR CHICAGO-LINCOLN PARK AREA STARTING JUNE 1, 87. CALL KAREN AT 272-7421. 
Ride Mex or So West U.S. John 287 0931 
FAREWELL MASS.. LECTORS NEEDED. Tryouts in Sacred Heart, Tues­day 28 April, 6-6:30 pm. Pick up copy of readings at 121 B-P. 
Dear Maria, I've lusted for you for months! Your Secret Admirer. 
································································ 
Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay big $$$. Call 3586. 
Need Ride to KY DERBY Leave Fri 51 Paul 4052 
1984 Grad. Looking for rom male to share 2 bedroom condo in Lincoln Park area of Chicago. Call Jim (h) (312) 248-4262 (w) (312) 263·261 0 ext. 2322 
...................... . .......... . Earn up to $8,000 next school year managing on-campus marketing pro­grams for top national companies. Flexible part-time hours. Must be Jr., Sr .. or Grad Student. Ask lor Gene or Dee at (800) 592-2121. 

FOR SALE 
Is II True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312·742-1142 Ext. 7316 
FOR SALE:1978 VW RABBIT,GOOD CONDITION,$1 ,200,239·5693. 
AIR TICKET:SOUTH BEND-LOS .AN­GELES,FRIDAY MAY 1,1:30 P.M.,$120,239-5693 
FOR SALE 1976 Monte Carlo, swivel seat, AM!FM stereo cassele player, 80,000 original miles, a good winter car, $400 or best offer. Must sell by or before graduation. Call 232-6428 after 6PM. ........... . ....................................... . FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283­3883,NICK 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? NEED FURNITURE? CALL PERRY 272·2252 MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA 
BIKE AND CAR RACK FOR SALE, CALL FRANK-3043, $50 OR BEST OFFER 

TICKETS 
Let me make an offer lor 1 graduation ticket. Call Tom at 233·5065 ······································· 
U-2 TIX best offer £2026 
Need Grad. Tix Will Pay $$$ Call Pete 
272-6078 
............................... ············· 
Helpfcan'l see Neil D.:tickets for sale call Drew 1091 
................................. .............. 
FOR SALE -NEIL DIAMOND TIX CALL £2624 
NEED 1 GRAD TICKET $$$ CALL SUE 284-4113 


PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
CRACKY: Thursday -Best time ever. 324, Caviar, Movies, Company. 
Cupid Uvea Thanx lor all you do ... FRANKO. P.S.-Isn't Marty the greatest guy you know? 
Are you going to be hera for SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, if you are inter­ested in newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Observer 
and 
Special Olympics 
NEEDS YOUIII 

SPECIAL OLYMPICS MEETING! SPECIAL OLYMPICS MEETING 
There will be an informational meeting on Wednesday, April 29, at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre for anyone who inquired about working lor The Ob­server this summer on Special Olympics. Anyone else interested in working on this project or who will be attending summer school should also attend. 
I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. If you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and finance your Senior Week Call Mark at 2339. 
··································· ·········· OK this is my final offer for Graduation tickets. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. Call Mark at 2339. 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­Non-texts for $$$tredit next faiL PAN­DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 10-530 ph. 233-2342 
needed: rides to and from the U2 CON­CERT in Chicago for two people. $$$$ call Paul 2287. 
Kaplan, Kaplan, Kaplan lor your fu­ture, future, future. LSAT prep claas starts on 512 lor the 615 LSAT. Call 272-4135. 
I need a roommate next year at Stanford Univ. Please call John at 283-1814. 
U2 TIX 
Only $25 apiece! 
Call Dick at 1787 
FOR SALE NEW PUMA WARM UP SUIT $35 CALL JOHN x-1745 
GOING TO EUROPE THIS SUM­MEMALL? Large backpack for sale I 272-8919 
···················· Well it's the last week of classes! Hal­lelujah!! I can't wait to get out of here!! I just know there are some real women somewhere out there and I'm going to find one or else I'm going to die a single man. I just refuse to lower my standards! 
MUST SELL FAST 1985 Honda Civic good cond. slick shift $1500 OR BEST OFFER CALL: X3460 after 10 p.m. ask for Kevin 
SMC ORIENTATION NEEDS NO MOVERS -Any guys interested in helping SMC freshmen move into their dorms in August, please call Sue at 284-5067. 
CHICAGO-BOUND GRADS!! Female Roommate needed. 2 BrJl bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1st. For more info: call Pam (312) 348-6688,SMC'86 
HEY~eeMONARCH fri.nitesouthquad 9pmtlveROCKS-yeah 
P.S.-48 143 B. 

Someone once told me that ex-baseball players are the greatest guys in the world. I agree. 
He's coming to town with that crazy kind of frown II! 
D. ROYAL YOU AND THE GREY ONE SHALL BE 
PURGED (LOOK IT UP IF YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT IT MEANS) 
JIM KELLY YOU HAVE NO CLASS WHATSOEVER. SOUTH QUAD OB­SERVER NEED RIDE TO NJ ANYDAY AFTER MAY 12. PREPARED TO SHARE GAS & DRIVING CALL 272-6594 
......................... 
SMC girts named Terry become trash at Carroll! 
J. Gillig . . lor luck in studying and spearmint Trident .. 
thanks I Good luck on the CPA exam I 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE P.N. 
........................ 
ITT A IS A LIZARD IIITTA IS A LIZARD 
!! 
VICTORY! MR. BOOKSTORE AND LISA H. OVER LISA 0. AND MURPH 15-9 WHAT FLAVOR DO YOU WANT? 
John Quinn You don't have to fall down the stairs tonight 
Sheila, although we didn't spend enough time together, just knowing there are "normal" girls like you(&Terry&Susan)made it possible to get through this year. Don't ever change & don't forget to write. Yours in the '60s, Love, Jim. 
w~·.·~~·t;iki~g··~~rt~~-bu't ~~;~~-~~i'ki~·g 
food, too. Speaking of Sports ltnale features "Rudy's Final Food Corner,'' with special guest food conolaseurs Shaun Hopkins and Jim Sosnowski commenting on the much debated Issue In Mlchlana: Bruno's va. Glanet­to's. 
TRIVIA NIGHT IS BACKIIIII More Marvelous Mayhem than anyth­Ing you've ever heard. Rudy Brandl takes no prisoners In his last show as host of Speaking of Sports. Exciting food prizes lor correct answers. Catch It tonight from 9-11 on WVFI. 
ANN SEIFERT "Hold on, hold on tightly, and don't let go..." Hang in there, baby. Wedneday's comingllthe EDGE 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WASH· INGTON, D.C. will be sponsoring a Big Brother-Big Slater Program lor Notre Dame students coming to Washington this summer. Students will be matched with local alumni and alumnae, who can provide advice and Information on finding housing, job hunting and generally adjusting to life In Washington. To participate, Inter­ested students should call or write to either of the following people: Mary Beth Wachowski, 3013 Mosby St., Alexandria, VA 22305, 703-549-5446; or Maura Kahn, 8201 Greensboro Dr., £708, Mclean, VA 22102, 703-847­0555. 
NOVENA 0 Holy St. Jude, apostle and martyr, great in virtue and rich in miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful interces· sor of all who invoke your special patronage in lime of need, to you I have recourse and from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assis­tance. Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be in­voked. Sey 3 Our Fathers, 3 Hail Marys, 3 Glorias for 9 days. 
To my skating and golf partner: I'd hate to be wrong (again!), but I have to know ... was the classified on 424 from you to me? 
Three beers in Lewis elevator. ... Any re­quests? your serenaders 
RIGHT TO LIFE ELECTIONs-RIGHT TO LIFE ELECTIONS'RTL This is your las! chance to put in officer applications. They are due by Wednesday. Questions? Call 284-4096. 
Cindy Ann Harrigan. Hi. 
Todd says stop seeping me. 
Dave Shearon Dave Shearon Dave Shearon need I say more? 
Slnaad Rigney Ia 20 II Slnaad Rigney Is 20 II Slnead Rigney Ia 20 II Sinead Happy 201h birthday! Great cheering. You are LOUD I Have a great day getting ready for U2 while I cram for our test/1 Play " The Unicorn " a couple of times and remember last year's EG stress, then laugh I Love, "Chin Up " 
............................................................... 
W.K. we're holding Meggie hostage. she now knows what we do at night. DO YOU? The WINDOWBUGS 
D Duke's Bistro AZTECS IN AFRICA Montezuma's Band C Tuesday, April 28, 10pm 
D AZTECS IN AFRICA C Montezuma's band Duke's Bistro Tuesday April 28, tOpm 
THE OMINOUS SMOKE FROM NOWHERE!! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE I SMOKE FROM NOWHERE!! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE!! 
AT CHIPS TUESDAY -TONIGHT AND $2.00 PITCHERS! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE! ·HEAVY METAL AT ITS FINEST!! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE with their own brand of Yock-and-Rolllll Featuring HEAVY METAL lor ell ages!!! SMOKE FROM NOWHERE at CHIPS ­TONIGHT!! BE THERE OR FACE THE WRATH OF THE BEAST!! 
SMOKE FROM NOWHERE!! 
Happy 201h Birthday, Lynn Swift Love, Mom and Dad 
BOB HUTCHISON BOB HUTCHISON 
BOB HUTCHISON To the second sweetest guy I know(after Norm). Congratulations on finally turning 20, getting a personal,and your Spiritual Rock Position. You're a doll. 
Love, Maria 
·························· 
LAST CHANCE TO BUY YOUR TIE-DYE SHIRT. LIMITED SUPPLY. 284-5343 
Danger! Danger! I'm in love with a Ranger. Cadet Brian Lantz I'm lookin' for romance. You're the one for me Even though you're R.O.T.C. Allhough the Army will take you away, I love you B.L. What more can I say? 
To My Favorite A.A., Hang in there. I know you can do it! Let me know how things go. Love, Your favorite frosh P.S. I'm NOT madl 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED INDIANAPOLIS AREA CALL MARYBETH 284-5134 
MARK P you can't fight passion when passion is HOT your secret admirer 
RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE Officer Application deadline is Wed. April 
29 
CONTACT: Theresa Harrington 315 Regina S. SMC­4096 Tim Marchesi 41 0 Keenan ND-3388 Kris Murphy 228 Howard ND-2550 to pick up or drop off applications 
New officers will be notified by Friday 
································································ 
"You know, I've spent the night wilh doz­ens of women this year. .. Yet I haven't slept with a single one of them." 

The Observer Tuesday, April 28, 1987 -page 9 


Macho 
continued from page 12 
Wrestlemania III, and said he feels as ready as he's ever been. 
"If I was in peak condition before Wrestlemania III, then develop another word, because I'm even better than I was," he said. "I can't win the Inter­continental belt back by whoop­ing George 'The Animal' Steele, but I can put the thought back in anybody's mind that lost that thought that the Macho Man Randy Savage is an unbelievable threat to the World Championship belt. 
"I'm going to put that thought back into the minds of the fair-weather friends that left Macho Madness. And the loyal ones who supported me all along, well they're going to see that their money is in the right bank because I'm going to explode at the Convocation Center. If I don't, then I might as well leave the planet earth and go someplace else." 
Part of the problem has been Steele's affection for Savage's manager, the lovely Elizabeth. On a previous Saturday Night's Main Event, Steele carried Elizabeth away from the ring while Savage and Steamboat were wrestling. Macho Man has not forgotten that night. 
"Millions of people around the world love Elizabeth and that's all right, but to scoop her up on national television and 


allege Game Room Limited Seating: 90 People Admission: 50¢ 

Show Times As Follows: 
Tuesday, April 28 7pm & 9pm 
Wednesday, April 29 9pm only 
Thursday, April 30 6pm & 9pm 
Friday, May 1 7pm & 9pm 
Saturday, 
May 2 7pm, 9pm & 11pm 
carry her out of the arena, 
that's the embarrassment," he 
said. "I don't know how much 
more this guy can do to me. I 
have to bury that embarrass­
ment. It's got to be done and 
done properly. 
"We're not talking about the 
possibility of a 60-minute 
match here, because of the vin­
dictive emotion that I possess. 
But if I hurt him early, I'm 
going to drag it on." 
Savage, in his distinctive 
gravelly voice, explained that 
his sights are firmly set on the 
Hulk Hogan and the World 
Heavyweight Championship 
Title. And he will allow no one 
to stand in his way. No one. 
"In fact, if anybody could ever find my mother and put her in a position where I had to beat her to get a title shot at Hulk Hogan, I'd go in there and give her the flying elbow," he said. 
Hogan will also be on hand tonight. It was recently an­nounced that the champion and a mystery partner will face Andre the Giant and Bobby 'The Brain' Heenan in a tag­team match. Recent specula­tion about Hogan's partner has centered on Strongman Ken Patera, who was recently released from prison, and has voiced his anger over Heenan's Chis former manager) deser­tion of him while he was ser­ving time. 
Also on the card is a tag-team title match between the British Bulldogs, with Tito Santana and manager Jimmy 'The Mouth of the South' Hart in their corner, and The Hart Foundation, with the referee­turned-evil-wrestler 'Dan­gerous' Danny Davis in their corner. 

NAVY HIRING PILOT TRAINEES 

College graduates are needed to pilot, 
n~v~gate, _and maintain the most sophis­t~cated a~rcraft in the world! 
* No experience necessary 
• ALL majors considered 
As a NAVY PILOT, you will fly the most advanced a~rcraft ever developed. 
As a NAVY FLIGHT OFFICER, you will 
operate the electonics and computers in the Navy's newest jets. 
Navy Officer Representatives will be 
on campus conducting an exclusive 
testing session. All interested students 
who are within three years of graduation 
are encouraged to take advantage of this 
opportunity. Testing takes approximately 
3~ hours and seats are limited. 
Date: Friday, May 1, 1987 
Place: Career & Placement Services, Conference Room 
Testing appointment may be obtained by calling 256-1455 
------~--------------­

PILOT-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 uncorrected vision. Ages 19-26. 
FLIGHT OFFICER-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. 
MANAGER,-Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Ship handling and manage­ment. Strong emphasis in personnel management. Ages 19-26. 
==;-;:-;:--,;-;:-:~=
BUSINESS MANAGER -Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, logistics. Ages 19-28. 
ENGINEER-Start at $23,500 ($45,000 after 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
Sophomores & Juniors: 
NAVAL AVIATION CADET -Sophomores from 4-year or Community College that are un­decided about continuing college may qualify for immediate Pilot training. Requirements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA and pass the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
"AV~I~AmT"rowN'RmE~S~E~RV~E~OFmF~I~C~ER~C~AN~D~I~DA~T~E -Guaranteed Pilot/Flight Officer Training at AOCS (Pensacola, FL) during Sophomore or Junior year summer break, and/or upon completion of BS/BA degree. 
~RE~S~E~RV~E~O~FF~I~C=ER=-=c~AN~D~I~D~AT==E -Guaranteed Officer Training at OCS (Newport, RI) during Sophomore or Junior year summer break and/or upon completion of BS/BA degree. No drilling/meetings required. 
Must be a U.S. citizen and in good health. 


NAVY¥0FFICER. 




LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 

ND baseball loses lead and gatne to Broncos 
By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer 
After losing two of three on the road against the University of St. Louis over the weekend, the woes of the Fighting Irish baseball team continued against Western Michigan yes­terday at Jake Kline Field. 
Jumping out to a 3-1 lead in the second, the Irish self­destructed against the always­tough Broncos and continued its losing skid, falling 7-5 and leaving flead Coach Larry Gallo befuddled about his Fighting Irish. 
"We go up two runs early and then we go to bed," said Gallo. "It's happened all year." 
In the first inning, it ap­peared it might be Notre Dame's day as Mike Flynn and Steve Skupien drove in two runs with RBI singles. 
Irish starter Brian Piotrowicz then proceeded to shut the door on the Broncos' hitting, holding them to five hits through the first six in­nings of the nine-inning con­test. The lone Western Mic­higan offensive production during that stretch was an RBI single by John Reimnik, who drove in Mike McNees. In ad­dition, the Irish added another run of their own when centerfielder Scott Rogers, who scored earlier in the game, drove in leftfielder John Lough­ran on a fielder's choice grounder. 
In the top of the seventh, 
_ 

however, the Bronco bats went wild on reliever Robert Fitz, who surrendered four hits and three runs, two which came on a double by Mike Davis, scoring Steve Tramms and Eric Sowall. 
In the eighth inning, newly inserted Irish hurler Tom Howard fared no better, giving up two runs, one of which was an RBI single by All-American John Vanderwal. In the bottom half, however, the Irish were able to rally behind the bats of Pat O'Brien and Tim Hutson, who drove in Skupien and Flynn to close the gap to 6-5. However, an extra insurance run in the top half of the ninth made the score 7-5. 
The Irish seemed posed for a comeback when consecutive singles by Pat Pesavento and Dan Peltier put the winning run, Flynn, at the plate with only one out. However, Flynn hit a hot shot to the second baseman, who tagged second when Pesavento was caught between second and third, en­ding the contest. 
"Anything that is hit in the infield means you can't run un­til it drops," said Gallo. "Our baserunning has been ter­rible." 
"At this point," added Gallo, "I feel that if anything can go wrong, it will. At least the runs we had in the eighth indicated that we're not giving up, but I'm sick and tired about losing so many close ball games. I'm not pleased at all." 

C A R RENTAL 
Now renting to ND Students, Alumni, Faculty, and · Staff at Low Daily and Weekly rates. Free pick up and delivery. 
2n-ssoo 

~:If )lOWe~. wrif-job aller,--togel )IOU and )'OUr 
oil toa great ~wilh a tnnci-NwTOI'QI8. 
•UY IT O..l..EA-IT. ~::.;::::s.==-toi!M lhe.,._)OUdaaerwwilhtwoCiaoaol"lf7"'quiclt_.,.,.r•-.angprograma. 
If!IOU quoolily.IIOUc:en!Juve<INMa,_'fowola _, 
dapoaitwilbe'*!Uiflld."llllhal'ornore.-can-.....,.,_l"""l'*'•wllllln.:NI"'-1.""
panicipatinQ'fowoladealerforpnogrwn_,wa. .... 
Toapply,you"lr...t aturNntdrMI"a-andproolol~orjobciW.-'Ibu
nwyfind. halpfUtobltng a~ong.,...,."'c:rdcanlnumllers. O...you'N~)OU­
-.=..:::.s'Gf-sU::..Iinaol.-cersandtrucbTC¥*1-M-ohrwd,lnduding 
dealer!OCII¥. 
-

~TOYOTA 
MDf'W!
-AIIIVTl-1INII 
333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 



The Fastpitch Softball Club entered Easter break with a 4-3 
record, but the Irish have not


Rugby Irish see '111ild success' at Drake 
continued from page 12 
Notre Dame is now prepar­ing to take on Ball State this weekend for the state champi­onship of Indiana. Action at Stepan Field starts at 1 p.m. 
Ball State defeated the Irish during last October's Indiana­Kentucky Tournament, so Notre Dame will have added in­centive going into the match. 
"We played them in about the first ·month of the year, so it will mean a lot to beat them this time," said Williams. 
In last weekend's Midwest Sprints at Madison, Wis., the Notre Dame Rowing Club did 
' well, but not quite well enough 
to earn a berth in the NCAA 
Championships. 
The men's lightweight eight won a silver medal, losing by a few points to Kansas, and the women's lightweight four also earned a silver medal. 
"I think that every year we do a little bit better, and gain a little bit more respect," said Club President Joe Brunetti. "Maybe next year or the year after we'll really clean up and get about five or six medals. We came really close to getting more medals this time, but we weren't quite good enough. We're still about the second or third best team in the Mid­west." 
Even though the Men's Vol­leyball Club ended its season with a disappointing finish in the MIVA Tournament and a loss in three straight games to nationally-ranked IUPU-Fort Wayne, the players were still happy with their season as a whole. 
The Irish had a final record of 26-8, and were 26-3 against fellow club teams. 
"We did far better than the team has in the past," said Club President John Sullivan. "We had never finished much above .500 before, and we can't complain with being 26-3 in the club division. The tournament was kind of a disappointment, but it came down to us all being fatigued, and we had a lot of injuries. We have a lot of respect in the division now." 
Mike O'Grady, Mike Shimota, and John Sullivan 
were  selected  to  the  All­ 
Division team.  
"Bill  Anderson  put  a  

phenomenal amount of time in coaching the team, and he was a key to our success," said Sul­livan. "If he's back next year, hopefully the guys will continue to get better." 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&'Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

-

by William Shakespeare 
Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10pm Sunday 
May 3, at 3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. 
Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 




ELEGANT PASSAGE IS BACK 
with their spring line of cottons 
We promised you these last fall-cotton sweaters, pants, shirts, blouses, and the "famous" Baha shirt. 
All prices below wholesale. 
See you on April 27 through May 1. LaFortune Student Center -Main Floor 
ENJOY COMPLETE CURRICULUM IN ENGLISH, SPANISH
SAINT LOUIS UNI­
LIBERAL ARTS, BUSINESS,
VERSITY'S 
SCIENCE, HISPANIC STUDIES 


MADRID CAMPUS 
I 
July Session Includes: 
GRADUATE PROGRAM IN 
HISPANIC STUDIES 
SLU ie ar. AMOE 
Apply NOW for Summer & Fall! 
INFORMATION: 
CALLE DE LAVINA, 3 
MADRID 28003 SPAIN TEL. (91) 233-2032 
--233-2812 TELEX: 44813 
...In the classroom with more than 500 Soenish Students. 
. -~­

the distance medley relay team 
"It's been a long season for of Garrett (1200 meters, Tom," said Piane. "It's a long
3:00.1), Nobles (400 meters, season for any freshman." 
48.1), Warth (800 meters, 1:51) With junior sprinter Tim and O'Conner (1600 meters, Brown staying in South Bend 
4:09.5). 
for the Blue-Gold football game, the Irish did not run the 
The Irish also entered two 4x400-meter relay team. other team members in indi­The rest of the squad partic­vidual events. Freshman ipated in the Hillsdale Invita­hurdler Glenn Watson placed tional. Freshman Yan Searcy third in his heat of the no­was the lone winner for the meter highs with a time of Irish, taking the 400-meter 
14.37. But freshman shot putter dash with a time of 48.62. 
Tom Kraus, who has been The Irish will next host the struggling as of late, recorded Midwest Catholic Invitational a toss of 51-6. this Saturday. 

_..........._ ofthe Castle 
$6
Men's Hairstyling atudenf $8.50 complete cut style AWAYFROM CAMPUS 
212-6312 211·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
••....,..._.Ill• •oveaar....s......... C.aw ....taa Ia ••••...... Not H-r• 
~.-a 

~....-..u cw-t.._,, ~ ..... , 

had too much luck following the holiday, losing four straight games to run their record to 4-7. 
Notre Dame dropped two games to Saint Mary's, 1-0 and 5-1, then lost to Taylor Univer­sity, 6-5 in 10 innings, and to Anderson College, 6-2. 
"We've been playing well but not well enough," said Club President Lynn Boyle. "They've been squeaking by in the last few innings. One of our pitchers wasn't available for the last two games, and Barb Mooney had to pitch with an injured back, so that had some­thing to do with it." 
The Irish have six more games this week to try to im­prove their record before the season ends. Notre Dame will be at Purdue University at Hammond for a doubleheader­on Tuesday, at Grace College for a doubleheader on Thursday, and at Saint Mary's for a final doubleheader on Friday. 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
A third-place finish by the 4x1600-meter relay team high­lighted what Head Coach Joe Piane termed a "mildly suc­cessful" run for the Irish track team in the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa. 
Junior Nick Sparks (4:09), freshman Mike O'Conner (4:06), junior Dan Garrett 
(4:07) and sophomore Ron Markezich (4: 14) comprised the relay team that finished be­hind Iowa State and Rice. 
"I was especially pleased with the 4x1600 relay," said Piane. "The best thing is that they'll all be back next year." 
Notre Dame's two other relay teams did not fare as well. The 4x800-meter relay team of Sparks (1:54.9), soph­omore David Warth (1:50.8), senior Robert Nobles (1: 51.1) and freshman Mike Rogan 
(1:55.0) finished sixth, as did 










'JI['~t:ll~~--------------------------------------------------------•T•u•e•sd•a•y•,A•p•r•il•2•8,•1•98•7··-p.ag•e·1-1
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Nf/81XO WIINT5 7V 81/Y 7lfe' 
RI&Hr5 TrJ YOIIR 50N6, ''(J 9T!NK /Jf/TI ~ C/, " fiN!? 1HEN f?EWK/TC IT f/5 II TV Jlfo/61£ fOR "WHEIIT 1li/N5.• 



111£YU Mf/KE YOII II 
/'fi(JLT!M!t.I-IONIIIRE. 
'~ 

Beer Nuts 
Campus ~ 
11 a.m.: English Department Lecture 
"Metaphors of Order and Chaos: Reflec­
tion on Mathematics and Poetry," by 
Prof. Philip Holmes, Cornell University, 
303 Cushing 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute <Brown Bag) 
Seminar "Politics of Heterodox Shock in 
Argentina and Brazil," by Prof. Robert 
Kaufman, Rutgers University, 131 Decio 
2:30p.m.: Baseball: NDvs.PurdueUni­
versity, Jake Klein Field 
3 p.m.: Tennis: NDW vs. Kalamazoo, 
Courtney Courts 
3: 30 p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Lecture "Chaotic Bounc­ing," by Prof. Philip Holmes, 303 Cushing 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Natural Gas Hydrates: Problem or Opportunity?" by Prof. E. Dendy Sloan, Dept. of Chemical Engineering and Petroleum Refining, Colorado School of Mines, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:30 
p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar with Dr. Mark Muller, Ohio State Univer­sity, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

4:30 
p.m.: Nieuwland Lecture in Chemistry "The Action of the Insulin Receptor and the Mechanism of Trans­membrane Signally," by Prof. William J. Rutter, 123 Nieuwland Science 


7 p.m.: Last Lecture Series by Max Westler, Haggar College Center Parlor 
7:30 p.m.: Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes meeting, Stanford 24-hour lounge 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Mark Williams 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series "Seventeen," 1983, color, 92 minutes, di­rected by Joel DeMott, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30p.m.: WWF Superstars of Wrestling TV Event, ACC arena, $12 & $9 
8 p.m.: SMC Music Department Student Voice Recital by Melissa Strong, Soprano, Little Theatre 
8 p.m.: College of Science Distinguished Scholar Lecture In Chemistry "Water and Oil Don't Mix: The Useful Schizophrenia of Chemistry," by Dr. Kerry Thomas, ND, Library Auditorium 
8 p.m.: Graduate Organ Recital by Jane Bergeron, Sacred Heart Church 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round of Beef, au jus 
Sweet & Sour Chicken 
Seafood Newburg-Patty Shells 
Grilled Ham & Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Fried Chicken 
Baked Meatloaf with Gravy 
Bean Burritos 
Deli Bar 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Fellow 5 Lieu 
10 Soviet news 
agency 14 Wife of Zeus 15 -fire (truce) 16 Singer Paul 17 Actor from 
Egypt 19 Dose 20 Ventriloquist 

Paul 21 "The Lady -" 23 Skirt bottoms 24 Pyrosulfuric 
acid 25 Hold back 28 Diversion 31 Ruby and 
Sandra 32 Most tender 34 Kind of jazz 35 Old language 37 Area used 

for storage 38 Small shoot 40 Vane letters 41 Sets up 44 Delete 45 NY city 4 Board 47 Grace game: var. 49 Opera by 5 Plots 
Delibes 6 Ducks 50 Fox follower 7 Nobleman 51 Trunk 8 "-was going 52 Rack of a kind to St. lves" 56 Architect 9 Contaminates 
Saarinen 10 Zodiac sign 57 "Lost Weekend" 11 Can. singer 
star  12 Slide  
59 Give an alert  13 Posed  
60 Violinist  18 Lean-to  
Mischa  22 --foot oil  
61 "-go bragh"  24 Fragrant  
62.-out  25 Takes it easy  
(gets by)  26 US labor  
63 Campus VIPs  leader  
64 Actress  27 Spooky film  4/28/87  
Thompson  star  42 Spread gossip  51 Wood used In  
DOWN 1 Bushy-coated dog 2 Half: pref. 3 Islands off  28 Vincent of the screen 29 Poker term 30 Type of moth 33 Fat 36 Bottle parts  43 Muscle pulls 46-rod (tall plant) 48 Islamic weight 50 "Man's Inhu­ shipbuilding 52 Double curve 53-avis 54 Arthurian lady 55 Ms Millay 56 Ram's dam  
Galway  39 Chats  manity-"  58 Beverage  





Tuesday, April 28, 1987 -page 12


S~orts 

'Macho Man' looks for revenge at ACC 
By RICK RIETBROCK so you know where that puts Assistant Sports Editor me. Better than fabulous. George 'The Animal' Steele is 
Black Tuesday has arrived. the one. And vengeance is in the air. "If I had lost to Little Beaver 
Tonight at the ACC, the the midget, it wouldn't have World Wrestling Federation been Little Beaver that beat will stage its first major event me, it would have been Steele. since Wrestlemania III as an I don't think he deserves to be all-star card has been compiled in the same sentence with the for a May 2 nationally-televised Macho Man Randy Savage." Main Event. The road to Wrestlemania III 
One of the headlining was a long one for Savage. In matches features Randy fact, he started his athletic 'Macho Man' Savage and career in baseball, but after George 'The Animal' Steele in playing four years of minor a Lumberjack match. Lumber­league baseball, he decided to jack rules put 12 wrestlers out­pursue his dream. side the ring to throw any "I decided to do what I wrestler that is out of the ring wanted to do," Savage said. "I back into it. hit the weights and trained 
And Savage is ready. really hard, paid my dues, and 
"I've been set back, and got up to 6-1, 235 pounds, quick that's the reason for all the vin­as a cat. If I gained a pounddictive emotion that I possess and it shaved off a little of that right now heading into Black speed, I took it off." Tuesday." Even though Savage left 
Savage's setback occurred at baseball, one aspect of his Wrestlemania III when Ricky baseball career hasn't left him. 'The Dragon' Steamboat The nickname, 'Macho Man' 
defeated him in a controversial stems from several alterca­match to take Macho Man's In­tions following brushback tercontinental Heavyweight pitches, and collisions at home title. But Savage contends that plate in the minors. Writers Steele, not Steamboat, was the commented that he had an at­reason for his defeat. titude. 
"The only reason that Steam­But the only altercation on 
boat won the belt is because of Macho Man's mind right now Randy "Macho Man" Savage and his manager, George 'The Animal' Steele," is tonight's match with Steele. the lovely Elizabeth, will have a score to settle said Savage. "Steamboat is a He has not wrestled since with George "The Animal" Steele in tonight's fabulous athlete, but he could World Wrestling Federation contests at the ACC not hang with the Macho Man, see MACHO, page 9 

Irish tennis continues hot play through final weeks 
By STEVE MEGARGEE won six out of seven there, and over Illinois State, extending though he has won four of his give Fallon his 500th victory Sports Writer that seemed to carry over its winning streak to five. last five matches. and a final season worth pretty well into the season." The surge by Notre Dame reminiscing. And if the Irish The Notre Dame men's ten­N9tre Dame showed the rest Junior captain Dan Walsh since spring break has given continue their late-season mo­nis team is making sure that of the Midwest a good example has led the way this season for Fallon a fitting way to cap off mentum, they have a good shot Head Coach Tom Fallon retires of its recent prowess during the the Irish, posting a 29-2 singles his 30-year career coaching of defending their Eastern Col­as a winner. past week. The Irish beat record and a 13-4 doubles tennis at Notre Dame. Starting legiate Championship on May 
Injuries to several key Toledo, 7-2, on the road last record with Paul Daggs. Daggs the season with a career record 25 at Rutgers, N.J. starters at the beginning of the Wednesday, then returned also sports a 10-2 doubles of 494-190, and coming off a 22-9 "The season has gone very season left the Irish struggling home over the weekend to rout record with Brian Kalbas, season that included an Eas­well," said Fallon. "We're early, hovering around the .500 four teams at Courtney Courts. while holding an 18-6 singles tern Collegiate Championship, doing better than we expected. mark. But since a trip to Cali­record. Kalbas is 18-11 in Fallon did not originally ap­We'd be much further ahead if fornia over spring break, the In Saturday's Notre Dame singles play, Mike Wallace pear to have a team that would we hadn't had the injuries." Irish have been on a tear, going Triangular, the Irish shut out holds a 19-8 record, and Dave meet the standards set by pre­Notre Dame closes its regu­15-4 over their last 19 matches both DePaul and Butler, 9-0, Reiter has won his last five vious Fallon-coached squads. lar season this weekend with to raise their record to 21-10. and thrashed Malone, 8-1. matches to improve to 17-14. But the Irish have shaken off matches against Michigan 
"The spring break trip was Notre Dame closed out the Tim Carr, playing at the top injuries and a slow start to State on Saturday and against a big factor," said Fallon. "We weekend with an 8-1 triumph seeded slot, has a 15-16 record, come on late in the season and Kalamazoo College on Sunday. 

ND Rugby Club wins two over the weekend 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club had good reason to celebrate over An Tostal weekend. 
While most students spent the day playing in mud pits or watching the Blue-Gold game, the rugby team was busy blowing out Earlham College at Stepan Field. 
The A-team won, 35-7, and the B-side came out on top by a 23-6 score. 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

"We were really aggressive, and we had a really strong pass rush," said Club President Quentin Williams. "Paul Bridenstine played probably the best game of his career at inside center." 
This win improved Notre Dame's spring record to 2-1 following a 5-3 fall season (4-1 not including tournaments). 
see RUGBY, page 10 
By MOLLY McNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team is on a four-game winning streak that has improved their record to 13 wins and 11losses. 
On Friday, the Belles downed Notre Dame in a doubleheader, 1-0 and 6-3. They continued their intense playing and swept Earlham College Saturday, 6-2 and 11-0. 
In the first game against Notre Dame, Dawn Koutek scored the victorious run in the third inning on Martha Judge's smash single. 
The Belles continued their consistent offensive attack in the second game led by the powerful bat of Dawn Broh­man, who connected for three hits, including a triple. 
Marge Reynolds was two-for-




SMC softball takes four straight 
three and first baseman Lori White was one-for-three with one run batted in. 
Head Coach Scott Beisel was pleased to see his team play their own game. 
"We are making fewer men­tal mistakes now," said Beisel. "We are playing the right people in the right positions." 
The Belles did not let up Sat­urday when they easily defeated Earlham College, 6-2 and 11-0. 
J a nine Adamo led the Belles offensively with three hits in three trips to the plate, includ­ing a triple, while teammate White contributed one hit and three RBis to the Belle's vic­tory. 
Winning pitcher Tammy Shelor evened up her record at 7-7, as she threw three strikeouts and only allowed four free rides to first base. 
The second game was a five­inning· shutout sparked by Dawn Brohman, Trish Tierney and Kris Pantelleria, who con­nected for two hits each. 
Winning pitcher Colleen Murphy held Earlham hitless until the fourth inning when Earlham connected for their only hit of the game. 
"These were the most consis­tent four games we've played," said Beisel, "we are finally starting to gel. 
"I like to see strong intensity for two full games," added Beisel. "It is important to keep this level of intensity during the last eight games as we head into the districts." 
The Belles travel to Tri-State today and return home Thursday to host Taylor Uni­versity. 





