---~ --------~----· -----­
An Tostal -Catnpus Scene 

VOL. XXI, NO. 130 FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1987 the independent student newspaper sen·ing :\otre Dame and Saint \far) 's 
Hot dog 
After an evening on the town, Luke Sheridan devours a "Cadillac" as his friends look on at the Great American Hot Dog Stand. With a plethora of An 


Soviets grant etnigration 
Associated Press Koryagin, a 48-year-old psychiatrist, 
was pardoned by the Supreme Soviet 
MOSCOW-Anatoly Koryagin, who in February in a review of dissident spent six years in a labor camp for ac­cases and released from a labor camp cusing authorities of sending sane dis­where he had been imprisoned since sidents to mental hospitals, has been June 1981. granted permission to emigrate, Soviet He had been sentenced to seven years news media said Thursday. in prison camp and five years in inter­
nal exile on charges of anti-SovietThe two-sentence statement by both agitation and propaganda, a chargethe English-and Russian-language ser­used frequently against dissidents. 
vice of the official Tass news agency was believed to be the first time the Koryagin publicly accused Soviet 
Soviet media has announced a dissi­authorities in an article published in a dent's departure. British medical journal of sending men­tally healthy dissidents to hospitals,
"Anatoly Koryagin, who was where they were treated with drugs. 
recently released from detention, has been allowed to leave the U.S.S.R., it Koryagin's accusations were based was confirmed to a Tass correspondent in part on his examination in 1980 of today at the U.S.S.R. Ministry of Inter­Alexei Nikitin, a worker from the Uk­nal Affairs," Tass said. rainian city of Donetsk who was treated 
in mental hospitals after complaining"Koryagin is leaving for Switzerland about industrial working conditions infor permanent residence," the state­an interview with western correspon­ment said. It provided no other infor­dents. Koryagin pronounced Nikitinmation. 
mentally stable. 
Dissident sources in Moscow said Koryagin also was an adviser to the Koryagin arrived in the Soviet capital Working Commission to Investigate the from the Ukrainian city of Kharkov on Use of Psychiatry for Political Pur­Wednesday. But they said he did not poses, a dissident group formed as an want to speak to reporters. affiliate of a Moscow organization that 
The sources said Koryagin would monitored compliance with the Hel­leave Moscow this afternoon. sinki accords. 


Shultz urges NATO to support reductions 
Associated Press verifying that a treaty was being ob­
served. 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State The Soviets would keep the 100 war­
George Shultz, assuring the NATO heads in Asia, targeted on Japan and 
allies that the United States has an other Asian countries that have pres­
awesome and flexible nuclear arsenal, sured the United States to get them 
said Thursday the West "shouldn't be removed. The 100 U.S. warheads might 
afraid to take yes for an answer to our be kept in Alaska, although the Soviets 
own proposal" for missile reductions. are fighting hard to shift them else­
where in America.
In a move to persuade the North At­Shultz last week delayed a finallantic Treaty Organization to approve response to Gorbachev until the alliesthe near-deal he worked out with Soviet could consider the prospective U.S.
leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Shultz held pact with Moscow. Some NATO offi­open the possibility of trying to elimi­cials, as well as several members of nate even the 100 medium-range war­Congress, have expressed concernheads the two sides have tentatively about not deploying new U.S. nuclearagreed to keep. 
weapons in Western Europe. 
Similarly, President Reagan said in Gorbachev offered also to destroy the a statement that destroying all war­50 shorter-range launchers the Soviets heads was "the preferred outcome" of keep in East Germany and the United States and its allies. Reagan said that would ease the problem of see SHULTZ, page 3 
More grad tickets at ACC 
Special to the Observer All students participating in the Com­
mencement are eligible for the lottery. 
The Commencement guest seats al­The results of the lottery will be posted loted each 1987 graduate will all be in in the Registrar's Office on May 1. the Athletic and Convocation Center It was earlier feared that, because of arena, and a lottery will be held for the record number of candidates for those wishing an additional ticket, the degrees, some of the ticket requests Registrar's Office has announced. would have to be filled via a telecast of 
Students must sign up by today at the the Commencement, to be held in the Registrar to be entered in this ticket Center for Continuing Education. lottery. All Commencement tickets, includ­
Because graduating students asked ing those won in the lottery, can be only for the number of Commencement picked up on the fourth floor of the Ad­tickets they needed, with 38 percent re­ministration Building May 12 through questing fewer than four, enough tick­May 16, the Registrar reported. In or­ets were available to seat everyone in der to get tickets, a student must pres­the ACC. ent an ID card and receipts for cap and 
In addition, the Registrar announced gown rentals. that several hundred seats will be avail­In addition to the regular tickets and able on a lottery basis. The seats from lottery tickets, the telecast of the Com­the lottery will be in the ACC arena mencement in the CCE will take place bleachers and will not be contiguous as planned. No tickets will be requiredwith a graduate's other guest tickets. for this telecast. 
Study: 'Star Wars'needs research 
As~ociated Press sive research would be required just to provide the technical knowledge 
WASHINGTON Challenging needed for an informed decision Reagan administration assumptions about the potential effectiveness and about "Star Wars," a group of top survivability" of lasers and other American physicists said Thursday "directed energy weapons," the that at least a decade of research is report said. needed to determine whether high­A pentagon critique said the energy lasers and particle beams report's conclusions were "subjec­can be used to knock down enemy tive and unduly pessimistic about missiles in space. our capability to bring to fruition the 
In a 422-page technical study, 17 specific technologies needed for a members of the American Physical full-scale development decision in Society delivered the sharpest scien­the 1990s." tific challenge yet to administration But Patel and others rejected that plans to deploy space-and ground­view at a news conference. based ballistic missile defenses as "In spite of the progress that has early as 1994. been made, a substantial amount of 
"On purely scientific and engi­research remains to be done before neering criteria, one would not make an informed judgment can be made a decision on early deployment. But about the effectiveness and the in the international arena, there are reliability and survivability of such other forces," said Kumar Patel, a weapons if and when they are physicist at AT&T Bell Laboratories deployed," Patel said. and co-chairman of the study group. The Pentagon's Strategic Defense 
Another author, Jeremiah Sullivan Initiative Organization, which of the University of Illinois at Ur­directs Star Wars research, said in bana, said deployment in the early a statement that recent or mid-1990s would be "a gamble." breakthroughs have brought some 
"Even in the best of circum­stance", a decade or more of inten-see STAR WARS, page 5 
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 2 


ND family forces member to search for a. new home 
In Brief ·.·~ · 
Seven workers were killed and a dozen injured when a high-rise apartment building under construction collapsed Thursday in Bridgeport, Conn. Bridgeport's mayor said 21 others were trapped under tons of concrete and twisted steel beams. -Associated Press 
The Ronald.Reagan Presidential Foundation, which has been raising money to build a Reagan presidential library at Stanford University, announced Thursday that it is abandoning that plan and will find a site in Southern California instead. A substantial number of the faculty at Stanford had objected to putting the library on the campus south of San Francisco, but the foundation did not refer to that controversy. The announcement said only that it was essential the library and an affiliated center for public affairs be located at the same site. -Associat~d Press 
Muhammad Ali surprised workers at the Parco Foods bakery when he showed up to meet the folks who will be baking a cookie under his name. The former boxing champ toured the Michigan City plant Wednesday, stirring the batter and watching the cookies roll off the assembly lines. The Michigan City plant will begin baking Muhammad Ali Champ Gourmet Chocolate Chip Cookies in July for nationwide distribution, according to Aric Smith of Celebrity Products in Chicago. -Associated Press 
Trout season in streams opens Saturday in Indiana, and the Department of Natural Resources says more than 46,000 rainbow trout have been released in 21 lakes and 18 streams statewide this spring. Anglers are reminded that the daily catch limit is 10, and the minimum size limit is 7 inches. -Associated Press 


Of Interest
. 
Yearbook distribution endstoday. Freshmen may pick up their copy of the 1987 Dome from 12:30 to 4: 30 this afternoon outside the Stepan Center. All other undergrad­uates who have yet to pick up their yearbooks may do so today. Bring student ID when picking up yearbook.-The Observer 
A Chamber Orchestra Recital will be held on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. For ticket information, contact Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. -The Observer 
TheBattalionofMidshipmenwillbecelebrating Mass at the Grotto this Sunday at 10:30 a.m. Brunch in the South Dining Hall will follow immediately after Mass. 
The Observer 
Lt. Col. Hugh Burns will be the featured speaker at the Indiana Teachers of Writing annual spring seminar to be held today and Saturday at the Center for Continuing Education. Burns' address tonight will be entitled, "On the Gift of Empowering Tools." Burns is a nationally recognized expert on the use of computers in writing and learning to write. -The Observer 
The Debriana Duo, featuring sisters Debra Sutter and Diane Schmuck, will perform piano duets on Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at St. Mary's. The performance is part of the SMC Graduate Artists Recital Series. -The Observer 


Weather 
An Tostal weather will be mostly sunny and cool today with a high of 60 to 65. Mostly clear and cool tonight. Low around 40. Mostly sunny and mild Satur­day. High around 65. It's just that simple. -Associated Press 


-Ihe-O.bse~~or__ _ 
---. ---&.-=-Y~'-' .. -·-­

Design Editor ......... Jane Anne Riedford Viewpoint Layout .......... Matt ZyniewiczDesign Aasistant ...... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ......... Cindy Petrites Typesetter ... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Chris Reardon Accent Layout ................ Ann Biddlecom .......................................•. Shawn Sexton ........................................Heather Hypes News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Typiat ............................, .... Esther Ivory Copy Editor ........................ Rob Hennig ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Doti Sports Copy Editor .......... Marty Strasen SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Radar Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
The Obsener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods. The Obsener is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obsener is a member of The Associated Pras. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 

This year I have discovered what the hal­lowed Notre Dame family is all abQut. When I returned in· August, I got some of the worst news I have ever received in my life. My room­mate for the past year and a half had just undergone surgery for the removal of a brain tumor. 
I was frantic. I really. didn't know how he was. I only knew that he had been in surgery much longer than expected. I didn't know if he would live or die. This person is the closest thing to a brother I have. It was then that I saw the Notre Dame family swing into action. 
My friends were there for me when my room­mate and I needed them. Although only a few had returned from home, we had a small Mass for his recovery. My hall signed a poster for him and sent him cards and letters wishing him a speedy recovery. , 
Happily he dia make a quick recovery, al-· though he had to take a leave of absence from the University for this year. He came out for the Penn State game, and said he'd be back next fall. We were all relieved to see him doing so well after such a serious operation and were happy to know he would be returning. 
Mter this experience, I came to believe that the Notre Dame family was more than just nice talk. The way people rallied together when one of their friends was in need was truly touching. 
Now my old roommate is ready to come back, looking forward to returning to the hall and his friends. 
A few weeks ago, he called and said the Office of Student Residences had sent him a letter saying he was to be treated as an off-campus transfer for the purpose of room picks. 
I said that this was ridiculous and had to be a mistake. He asked me to look into it for him, and I assured him I would. 
I went to my rector, who only had been in that position since the fall and didn't know my roommate. Nevertheless, he has been very sup­portive. He said that the housing situation seemed odd and that my roommate should be able to get a room in the hall after everyone had picked a room. He said he would talk to the Office of Student Residences. 
Just two days ago, the order for picking rooms went up, and my roommate's name was not on the list. 
I asked my rector why, and he told me that my roommate indeed would be treated as an off-campus transfer and would get a room only after all incoming freshmen had received a room. 
Calls to the Office of Student Residences con­firmed this. There is nothing that can be done. I can't even pull him in. 
What this really means is that my roommate not only won't get a room in my hall, but he won't get a room anywhere. 


It's too early to tell how many, but it's safe to say that more than a few incoming freshmen will be living in study lounges when school begins in August. It's happened each of my three years here and is bound to happen a fourth, so few if any transfers will make it on campus. 
I can't believe that my roommate will not get housing. He didn't ask to undergo emergency surgery or to withdraw for a year. Now when he is ready to return, he's told that he'll have to look for housing off-campus. 
What will happen to Kevin Hurley when he makes his long-awaited return? Will he be al­lowed housing? If the Office of Student Residences sticks to its guns, he'll be in the same situation my roommate is in now. 
What I really can't believe is how the Notre Dame family now is turning its back on one of its own. 
In August, the family was there. Now it says sorry, we can't give you housing. This Univer­sity, which prides itself on its Catholicism and compassion, suddenly is showing neither. 
Yes, I've learned a lot about the Notre Dame family this year. I've learned that it's fickle. If this is a family, I'd like to be adopted by some­one else. 

A N T 0 s T A L 
1 • 9 


Frivolous Frtday 
12:30 
JELLO TOSS.-Aiumni 

12:30 
LICORICE EATING--Cushing 


12:45 BOOKBAG TOSS.-O'Shaughnessy 
1:00 
HOT PEPPER EATING--Alumni 

1:
00 MATTRESS RACE--Cushing 


1:15 
DONUT EATING--Alumni 

1:
15 EGG DROP--Alumni 


1:30 
WATERMELON SEED SPIT--Alumni 

1:30 
TREASURE HUNT--Admin. Bldg. 1:30 PiE-IN-FACE--Cushing 


1:45 EGG TOSS--Alumni 2:00 17RE ROLLING--Cushing 
2:00 PIE EATING--Alumni 
2:30 
KEG TOSS--Cushing 

2:30 
CEREAL EATING--Alumni 


2:45 
cow CHIP ross--cushing 

2:45 
POPCORN EATING--Alumni 


3:00 OBSTACLE COURSE--S. Dining Hall 
3:30 CAR STUFFING--Alumni 
3:45 IMPERSONAT/ONS.-Sorin Statue 
4:15 LOUDMOUTH--Sarin Statue 
4:30 SERF AUCTION--Sarin Statue 
9:00 BAND: ''THE SUBURBS"--Stepan 

• 8 • 7 

9:00 ROAD RALLY--South of Stadium 
9:30 HANGOVER 5K/10K--Stepan Center 
10:00 KITE FL Y/NG--Stepan Field 
11 
:15 PICN/C/BAND--NW Stepan Field 

11 
:45 BALLOON TOSS--NW Stepan Field 

11 
:50 ORANGE PASS.-NW Stepan Field 

11 
:55 WHEELBARROW--NW Stepan Field 


12:00 BUCKET BRIGADE--NW Stepan Field 12:<>5 POTATO & SPOON--NW Stepan Field 
12:10 SACK RACE--NW Stepan Field 
12:15 WET CLOTHES.-NW Stepan Field 
12:20 3-LEGGED RACE--NW Stepan Field 
1:15 MUD WHEELBARROW--S White Reid 
1:20 MUD PILLOW FIGHTS--S White Field '1:25 MUD TUG-OF-WAR-S White Field 
1:30 MUD VOLLEYBALL--S White Field 
2:00 MUD CHARIOTS--S White Field 
2:30 BOAT RACES.-St. Joe's Lake 
3:30 FLAG F001BALL--Stepan Field 
4:00 FRISBEE GOLF-Holy Cross Hall (NO) 
5:00 UL T. FRISBEE FNLS.--ND Stadium 
8:00 RECESS.-Stepan Center 
10:00 BAND:''TIIIBUK 3"--Stepan Center 

---------.--------~·~ -----~-~~~--------------~ ---~-­
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987-page 3 
The secretary said those weapons and others stored in


Shultz University receives $1,046,980
the United States were a basis 



continued from page 1 
Czechslovakia, and indicated that another 80 launchers on So­viet territory also might be dis­mantled. 
Seeking to allay Western con­cerns, Shultz arranged for a government-sponsored telecast Thursday to Belgit.m, Britain, Italy, the Netherlands and West Germany in which he said "there are many nuclear weapons left in Europe, not considering the ones under dis­cussion." 

Dinners st1rtinc•t. _••• ___ $4.75 
.... open 7 dayo a week .....Thtln.: 11:30 •.•.-10 p.& Frl...s.t.: 11:30 L•.·ll II-•· 
S... & 11811Uy1 11:30 L&·ll p.&
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272-7376 

South Bend,130 Dixie Hwy.{Roseland) 




IN·DEPTH UNDERSTANDING 
THE WORLD & I is the magazine for people who want to know more: more about cur­rent issues; more about people; more about science, culture and art; more about current aca­demic trends. Each month exciting, state-of-the-art photo-journalism complements penetrating commentary by today's leading thinkers, such as, in recent months: 
Ben Stein on the feminist takeover of TV • David Horowitz on the anti-Vietnam War movement • Mangosuthu Buthelezi on South Africa's future • Lewis Branscomb on 
American science policy • Dinesh D'Souza on PBS • William Bennett on education • Tom Wolfe on socialism • Jack Kemp on foreign policy • Robert Nisbet on de Tocqueville 
THE WORLD & I is making a special one-time subscription offer to college teachers and students. The first 200 people from your campus to mail in the attached form will receive a free copy of our next issue with no further obligations. Should you then decide to subscribe, our special college discount rate will be $20 for six months, a very substantial savings over any previous offer. The regular newsstand price of THE WORLD & I is $120 per year, and our reg­ular yearly subscription rate is $90. So have a free copy on us and take advantage of this unprece­dented offer. 

WORLD&! 
We Put The World In Your Hands 
~ ~ ~,.., _.,,..,...._.,..1lllllr1 
FREE COMPLIMENTARY ISSUE , 
For a free complimentary issue, clip and fill out this ­coupon and send it to: ~ 
THE WORLD & I,Circulation Department, 2850 New York Ave., , 
N.E ., Washington, D.C. 20002 • 
,, 

State· Zip· 
Department· 
Date· 

for a "flexible response" policy and that American nuclear ca­pability would still be "quite awesome." 
He referred to the strategy of threatening the Soviets with a nuclear attack if they invaded Western Europe with ground forces. 
In 1981, NATO endorsed the 
U.S. negotiating position that all American and Soviet medium-range warheads should be destroyed. 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,046,980 in grants during March for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $989,571, and was awarded to fund 22 different programs. 
Howard Saz, professor of bi­ological sciences, received $167,179 from the National In­stitutes of Health for work on intermediary metabolism of helminths. 
In addition, Subhash Basu, professor of chemistry, and Manju Basu, associate faculty fellow in chemistry, received $110,740 from the National In­stitutes of Health for work on glycolipid biosynthesis in lym­phomas. 
National Institutes of Health also granted $94,371 to Paul Huber, assistant professor of chemistry, for work on protein binding domains on eukaryotic 5S rRNA and rDNA, and $4500 for work by John Duman, asso­ciate professor of biological studies, on an apprentice pro­gram for minority high school students. 
The U.S. Navy granted $112,360 to John Dow, Freimann professor of physics, for re­search on semiconducting su­perlattic and microstructure theory. 
The Navy also granted $23,517 for research by Bruce Bunker, assistant professor of physics, for studies in semicon­ductors. 
The National Science Foun­dation granted $100,000 to Mary Jane Clancy, assistant profes­sor of biological sciences, for research on the genetics and regulation of meiosis in yeast. In addition, the Foundation awarded $61,300 to Laurence Taylor, professor of mathema­tics, for work on algebraic and geometric topology. 
Andrew Sommese, professor of mathematics, received $47,200 from the Foundation for his work on transcendental al­gebraic geometry, and Nancy Stanton, professor of mathe­matics, was awarded $24,100 by the Foundation for work on eigenvalues of complex laplacians. 
The Foundation also granted $22,600 to Anand Pillay, associ­ate professor of mathematics, for studies in topics in model theory. 
The National Endowment for the Humanities awarded two grants, the first of which was $27,500 to Joann Dellaneva, as­sistant professor of modern and classical languages, for work on imitative strategies. The second award was $27,500 to Susan Youens, assistant pro­fessor in the program of liberal studies, for her studies on the music and poetry in the songs of Hugo Wolf. 
Steven Bell, assistant profes­sor of modern and classical lan­guages, was awarded $17,100 by the Council of International Exchange Scholars for re­search on Paz and Revueltas. The Council also awarded $14,300 to Scott Mainwaring, assistant professor of govern­ment and international studies, for work on the Party of the 
Sunday & Holiday Prices Slightly Higher 
6502 Grape Rd. University Center 

272-0009 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. S:Q0-8:30

lists 
Sat. 8:{)()-7:30

6502 Grape Rd. Unlverelty Center 
Open

272-0009 Sunday 10:{)()-4:00 
Brazilian  Democratic  Move­ 
ment.  
NASA's  Langley  Research  

Center awarded $45,871 to Thomas Mueller, professor of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering, for work on seperated regions near the leading edge of airfoils. 
NASA's Lewis Research Cen­ter granted $40,000 to Mary Vir­ginia Zeller, College of Engi­neering professional specialist, Richard Kwor, associate pro­fessor of electrical engineer­ing, and William Berry, profes­sor of electrical engineering, for their work on materials de­velopment of electrical con­tacts for beta-SiC. 
The Indiana State Board of Health granted $17,600 to Har­vey Bender, professor of bio­logical sciences, for work on human genetics. 
David Leege, professor of government' and international studies, and Father Robert Pel­ton, director of the Institute fo1· Pastoral and Social Ministry, received $12,500 from the St. Mary's Catholic Foundation for research on phase three of the IPSM parish study. 
The Environmental Protec­tion Agency awarded $10,433 to Stephen Carpenter, associate professor of biological sciences, for research on the varience of ecosystem stress indicators. 
Joseph White, assistant fac­ulty fellow in history, was awarded $8,000 from the Asso­ciation of Theology Schools for research on Protestant wor­ship traditions in America. 
In addition to these research grants, several special grants were also received by Notre Dame. Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $6,400 from the National Science Foundation for equipment to analyze data of Halley's Com­et, a study by Terrence Rettig, visiting assistant professor of physics, and Randal Ruchti, professor of physics. 
HAIRCUTS MEN'S WOMEN'S CHILDREN'S 
PRECISION $700
&STYLE
......__....,.., 
finlslling r1nw I blewstyle. 
SHAMP'OO 
SET OR ILOWSTYLE 



................._____p __________, ___ 
,. 
.-,"1 

The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987-page 4 
~ Gun~nan kills 8 in shopping Inalls 
that numerous customers and Brown said a secood manAssociated Press employees who were in the was arrested "in relation" to 
PALM BAY, Fla. -A man store when the gunman entered the shootings, but authorities armed with high-powered had "locked themselves in the later determined he had not rifles and handguns opened fire coolers," where they remained taken part in gunfire and that at two downtown shopping throughout the siege. there was in fact only one gun­centers Thursday, killing at man. least eight people, wounding 11 "They are Ming let out and Brown said five people were and holding hostages in a su­treated now," she said. found dead in the parkiJ!g lot permarket for several hours More than 200 police and Air of one of the shopping centers. before he was captured, aut­Force canine units converged Officials at Holmes Regional horities said. on the scene and police snipers Medical Center said three 
"The man has been ar­were stationed on rooftops, ac­shooting fatalities were 
rested," Police Lt. Candice cording to witnesses. brought there. 
Leek said shortly after 2 a.m., • 

more than 7 hours after the shooting began. "They chased him down and subdued him. He is being brought to the station right now." 
The gunman had released the last of his three hostages about a half-hour earlier, and Leek said then that police had "gassed the store, and he says he's going to kill himself." 
Police had negotiated with the man all night over a special telephone line, according to police spokeswoman Louise Brown, who said he told aut­horities he "didn't want to hurt any more women." 
Mter the man was arrested, Leek said police discovered 
The Observeri.Joann Whitfield 

To be or not to be 
Sophomore Fred Heidenreich takes part in a scene from a Shakespearian play. Heidenreich acts out his role as part of James Robinson's Shakespeare course. 




FINDING AN APARTMENT 
SENIORS!SENIORS 


IN MANHATTAN TAKES
SENIORS! 

Moving to a new dty? Need a new roommate? 
STOP BY CAREER & PLACEMENT 


THE RIGHT EDUCATION 
SERVICES OR CAll 239-5200! Get afree copy of "Manhattan Move~"­the insider's guide to finding an affordable apartment in Manhattan. 
To welcome potential new residents to the city, and dispel some myths about housing in New York, we have published a book called "Manhattan Moves©" It's the ultimate insider's guide to apartment hunting in the Big Apple. 
"Manhattan Moves~e~" helps you set your sights on the right type of apartment and location. It takes you on atour of the city's neighborhoods, introduces you to the available housing, gives you vital facts about transportation, housing laws, renting, sharing, and much more. 
The book gives you inside. advice on actually finding the apartment you've targeted. It helps you find the hottest listings, tells you how to canvas, and how to select abroker. 
Send for afree copy of "Manhattan Moves©" today. It won't guarantee you aManhattan apart­ment, but it will definitely get you "moving" in the right direction. 
r-------------------------------------,
) MUSICAL CAP $795 TO: MANHATTAN MOVES0 235 EAST 95TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10128 Send me acopy of "Manhattan Moves©" The Insider's Guide to finding an Apartment in Manhattan-free without cost or obligation. Your Name __________________________ 
School ___________________________ 
Address-------------------------­City--------------State ___ Zip
AMUSICAL $595 

~~ KEYCHAIN Home Address------------------------­City State Zip-----­AVAILABLE AT THE Phone No. Or Call Toll Free 1(800) 247-4041 HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE In New York State: (212) 996-5000 
L-------------------------------------~ 

------~ 
---------~----~~--------~

~--------~--~.-,---~~~----­
The Observer 

Security Beat 
Tuesday 
8:45 a.m. -While on routine patrol, a Security Officer found a wallet stolen in a previous case. Security is in the process of contacting the owner. 
Wednesday 
12:44 a.m. -A Howard Hall resident reported the theft of a stereo deck from a studio In the Architecture Building. Victim estimates his loss at $130.00. 
12:25 p.m. -A resident of Pangborn Hall reported that his vehicle was broken into while it was parked in the D6 Lot. Entry was made by smashing a vent window. A color television was removed from the ve­hicle and valued at $150.00. 
2:20p.m.-The manager of the Mor­ris Inn reported the theft of a black trench coat, belonging to a priest, taken from the cloak room. Value of the property is unknown at this time. Prior to the theft being reported, a black male subject-25 yrs. old, 5'8," medium build, light complexion ­was seen exiting the Morris Inn wearing a black coat similar to the one stolen. Security attempted to lo­cate this subject, however, he left the area. 
2:30p.m. -A Pangborn resident re­ported that two checks on his account had been forged in his name at the Notre Dame Bookstore. There is no actual loss to the victim, but the checks were written in the amount of $50.00 each. 
9:12p.m. -Residents of Grace Hall apprehended a subject attempting to steal a wallet from another resident in the dorm. The subject was taken into custody by Security and the wal­let was returned, with nothing mis­sing, to its owner. 
10:30 p.m. -Security investigated a property damage accident near Lyons Hall when a vehicle slid on wet pavement and struck a light pole. An estimate of damage is un­known at this time. 
Thursday 
10:20 a.m.-Two heat lamps, valued at $6 each, were reported stolen from the pool area at the Rolf's Aquatic Center in the ACC. 
12:15 p.m.-A University Village res­ident reported the theft of his bicycle from outstde the Memorial Library. Victim estimates his loss at $150. The . bike was locked at the time the theft 1 occurred. 
2:30p.m. -A Pangborn resident re­ported the theft of a check out of his checkbook after his roommate alerted him to the fact that he had some checks stolen. At this time there is no actual loss to the victim. 
2:50p.m.-Security stopped and iden­tified the driver of a golf cart as it was observed driving recklessly throl;!gh campus. 
4:55 p.m. -A Farley resident re­ported the theft of a license plate from her vehicle while it was parked in the D2 Lot. Victim estimates her loss at $50. 
*********************************************************************· 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* ~ '* ~ Sophomores 
* * 
* * 

E E Applications for E E Junior Parents' Weekend : * : * Chairmen · 
* *
* * 
:* :* now available April 23 & 24 in : : the Student Activities Office, : : 3rd floor LaFortune. Applications! : must be returned by Friday, : ! April 24 by 5:00p.m. 
i * * i * * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
E E 
E E 
: * : * 
* *
* * 
::* :* : : 
! : ! ! ! ! 
********************************************************************* 
Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 5 
Star Wars 
continued from page 1 
energy devices closer to the weapons stage. 
The report played an imme­diate role in congressional debate on President Reagan's request to spend $5.8 billion next year on Star Wars. 
Members  of  a  Senate  Ap­ 
proprations  subcommittee  
raised it in  a  closed session  

Thursday with the head of the SDI office, Air Force Lt. Gen_ James Abrahamson, said one congressional source, who declined to be identified. 
The authors of the report, "many of whom have impor­tant roles in developing those technologies," received classi­fied briefings from Defense De­
partment officials, Patel said. 
Patel's co-chairman on the study group was Harvard Uni­versity physicist Nicolaas Bloembergen, who was awarded a Nobel Prize in 1981 for his work on lasers. A six­member committee that reviewed the report included two others who won Nobels for laser research, Charles Townes of the University of California at Berkeley and Ar­thur Schawlow of Stanford Uni­verisity. 
Their report concluded that the power and quality of even the most promising of the lasers and other prospective di­rected energy weapons needs to be improved at least 100 times before they could be used in an anti-missile defense sys­tem. 


-~--___,_-~----------~ 
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 6 
We are pleased to announce the following 1987 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently been associated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE  Molly A. McGinnis, BA  DALLAS OFFICE  
Jim G. Byrne, BBA  Consulting  Regan A. Richter, BBA  
Audit  Patricia A. Mileski, BBA  Audit  
Patrick T. Celeste, BS  Audit  Kevin M. Valek, BBA  
Consulting  John H. Moore, BS  Tax  
Stephen P. Mettler, BS  Consulting  DETROIT OFFICE  
Consulting Tammy Miller, MBA  Scott C. Morrison, BBA Consulting  Sarah H. Bernard, BBA Audit  
Tax  Daniel J. Piscatelli, BBA  
Brian P. Rose, BS  Audit  MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE  
Consulting  Kathleen A. Shander, MBA Tax  Daniel D. Sorensen, BBA Audit  
BOSTON OFFICE  Patrick J. Songer, MBA  NEW YORK OFFICE  
Paul D. Dorger, BBA  Consulting  Thomas W. Powers, BA  
Audit  Mary K. Steinmetz, BA  Consulting  
CHICAGO OFFICE  Consulting  Mayling M. Woo, MS  
Michael S. Carlson, MBA Audit  Jeffrey G. Van Wie, BBA Consulting  Audit PHILADELPHIA OFFICE  
Anne C. Comer, BBA Audit  Tammy S. Wedeking, BBA Consulting  Thomas M. McCabe, BBA Audit  
Richard D. Cooney, BBA  CHICAGO WORLD  PHOENIX OFFICE  
Consulting  HEADQUARTERS  Joel S. Soltis, BBA  
Walter D. DiGiulio, MBA  Michael S. Berens, BS  Audit  
Consulting  Technical Se"rvices  
Laura T. Gleason, BBA  Organization  PITTSBURGH OFFICE  
Audit Todd A. Harding, BA  Patrick B. Donahue, BS Technical Services  Robert M. Very, BBA Audit  
Consulting  Organization  Joseph G. Zewe, BBA  
Michael T. Hofbauer, BBA  Patricia R. Hall, BA  Audit  
Audit  Technical Services  ROCHESTER OFFICE  
Sheila A. Kennedy, BA  Organization  John S. Mclachlan, BS  
Consulting  Helen M. McCormack, BS  Consulting  
Estle 0. Kominowski, BBA Audit Edward R. Lahood, BS Consulting  Technical Services Organization David G. Scott, BS Technical Services Organization  SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE John P. Hallissy, BBA Consulting STAMFORD OFFICE  
Christopher S. Lang, MBA Consulting John F. Lavoie, BS Consulting  CINCINNATI OFFICE Robert F. Cooney, BS Consulting  Shelly S. Jegier, BBA Audit WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE  
Cathleen G. Leroux, BBA  CLEVELAND OFFICE  Katherine L. Ruppe, BBA  
Audit  Thomas J. Ryan, BBA  Audit  
Kevin R. Maddock, BBA  Audit  
Consulting  Douglas J. Sibila, BBA  
Ellen F. McDonald, BA  Consulting  
Consulting  

We are pleased to announce the following 1987 graduates of the University of Notre Dame Law School have recently been associated with our firm: 
CLEVELAND OFFICE MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE NEW YORK OFFICE 
Patrick C. Mackin, JD Ingrid A. Dittrich, JD Anthony Scordo, JD Tax Tax Tax 
We are pleased to announce the following 1987 graduates of St. Mary's College have recently been associated with our firm: Anne C. Easterday, BBA Christina M. Rashid, BBA Karen G. Steck, BBA 
Audit Audit Audit 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&£9 


33 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 (312) 58Q-0033 
f 
l r 
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 7 
College Briefs 
A student pornogr~phy magazine at Yale Univ. is causing a stir, even before the first issue is printed. Some officials are upset about a poster advertising a benefit dance for the ptJblication, which graphically depicts men and women engaged in sexual acts. The as-yet-unnamed magazine will include both heterosexual and homosexual informa­tion. 
Monitorswillberequiredforoff-campushousing at Brigham Young Univ. next fall in order to ensure that school standards are being upheld. They'll also serve as liaisons between students and BYU in sol­ving housing problems. If the housing is not BYU­approved, the school will "let parents know it's wide-open and that things can get pretty wild," says one official. 
While toilet paper use by dorm residents at Oklahoma Univ. is excessive (78,000 plus rolls last year), at Iowa State Univ. students don't want to use any of it. ISU students, after circulating a pe­tition complaining about tissue paper quality, tested 18 different brands and chose their top five picks. Then, ISU officials selected which brand fit into the school's budget. 
.A~ Auburn Univ. fraternity was officially dismissed from the campus Greek system, a "first" in the school's history. Phi Delta Theta, a part of the Auburn's campus since 1876, was dismissed be­cause of "a long, cloudy history of poor behavior" capped by two recent, serious alcohol-related inci­dents. 
No sex is the rule for Catawba College (N.C.) athletes, who must sign an agreement stating they won't engage in inappropriate h''eterosexual or homosexual activity. They must also agree to at­tend study hall and not to use illegal drugs. Failure to follow the agreement may result in dismissal from the team and notification of an athlete's par­
ents. 

National Orgasm Week was declared recently. An~ to celebrate, Roger Libby, a free­lance sexologist and former Univ. of Massachusetts pro~essor,. urged ~tudents to stage a fantasy ball durmg which they d dress up as their favorite fan­tasy. No word yet on what costume Libby wore. 


::::s
-
ca 







> YOU DESERVE 
0 
0 ~ From your 


0 I~ 
"C
.... ....; • college grad 
ca specialist
::::s 
Cl 
.... ~~ 
(,)



·-.c .... Greg Kantauskas Dan Meachum 
For this special GMAC financing, all you need is your diploma or letter of graduation,
ca 
w 
LL proof of a job, a low down payment, and the ability to meet monthly payments. Bring this ad and get $400 off the purchase price, or a 90-day deferral on your payments, 
as a graduation present from GMAC and Rafferty's. 
w
a: 
(Eligible 6 months before gradua-tion.) 
LL 

FFERTI~S 
PONTIAC • BUICK • GMC • CHRYSLER • PlYMOUTH • DODGE 
616-683-3920 616-684-8200 
1102 S. 11th St., (U.S. 31·33 N.), Niles, Ml 

""' 
CD 
CD 
"C 
m 
::::s 
r+ 
0 
CD 
m
-
m 


::::s 
r+ 
0 
1\) 
0 
0 
<
m 
c 
CD 


PIME MISSIONARIES ive t e GOSPEL among t e poor and unchurched in the Third Warld. So that all may knJw of God's love. 
Young men 18-35, interested in FREE BOOKLET about life as a missionary priest in PIME, fill out this ad and send it to: 
PIME Vocation Dept. 3731 West 62nd St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767-0620 

~_________________________Age______ 
.Address Cit State Zi 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION '87 
Plea.se send my free copy of the Summer Session '87 catalog with fin&ncl&l aid and registration information. (Available mid-March) 
Name 

School Addraee 
City 

State Zip 
Home Address 
City 

State Zip 
Wlall Jft ..,. lien. Send the coupon or calll-800-ENRLS-NU (Inside Dllno!s call312-491-6260) 
883 

---------------------------------------------------~--------~--~~~--~----~~-----~ --­


"ie~~_O_i_n__t ____~--------F-riday~,Ap-ril24-,1987~-pa~ge8 
Blind competition blurs communistic· vision 
For the first half of last century, when technology had not reached its present superiority, society was far from producing enough supplies to keep all of its members from hunger and cold. A great idealist in Europe Karl Marx distinguished between two kinds of people -the proletarians and the bour­geoisies. The proletarians, as Marx saw, though working all day long, did not receive enough pay to support their family. On the other hand, the bour­geoisises, who hired workers to work for them in their factories, enjoyed all the luxuries without working. Marx decided that it was the insatiable desire of bourgeoisises for money that was driving the proletarians, the majority of people, into miserable situation. Out of humanitarian concern, Marx hoped to achieve social justice by the public ownership of the means of production. The ideal has been in practice for more than half a century and remains an op­tion for people in places like Nicaragua and the Phillipines. 
Nile Huo 
guest column 
The main advantages of a so-called communist society, according to its own propagandists, are as follows: so­cial property is ensured since everyone has to work; individual creativity is en­hanced since each individual is one of the hosts of the country and works for himself and the entire society instead of his boss; blind competition between the companies, and hence periodic crisis of overproduction, is avoided since the public ownership allows the government to arrange the entire social production in harmony; social equality is achieved since the party official and government administrators, all devoted people, are public servants rather than rulers; social democracy is guaranteed since the proletarian gov­ernment, which represents the desire of the majority, exercises dictatorship over bourgeoisies and all other parasitic which are seen to inhibit the democratic process. 
A heavenly dream, which turned out to be a nightmare, a nightmare in Rus­sia, China, and many other places. 
The hidden assumption of com­munism is the universal selflessness. If this assumption were valid, com­munism surely would have succeeded nightmare followed. Now and then, these people would learn how to con­tribute less to and take more from the "big communist family." They would learn how to use power, whenever available, for their own interests. And finally, they would learn how to grab power. The idealistic morality is soon totally ruined. The public ownership of the means of production only makes the centralization of power possible, the control over individuals possible, and hence the hierarchy, the dictatorship possible. Classes and the disparity be­tween poverty and richness are far from being ruled out. While old bour­geoisies disappeared, new aristocrats arise among government administra­tors and party officials. 
in  replacing  the  capitalist  system.  
However,  once  this  proved  untrue,  
Doonesbury  

That's exactly what has been happen­ing in every communist country. People in those countries, especially young generations, cannot help ques­tioning the communist doctrines from end to beginning. 
Does the majority always agree on every issue? Certainly not. A govern­ment is always necessary to do what the majority agrees on and to decide what to do when consistency is not found within the majority. This dictat­ing government may represent the majority to some extent at the begin­ning. But what guarantees that it will remain so? It may easily find an excuse to apply dictatorship to every member in the society. And finally, the majority dictatorship over the minority may well become the minority dictatorship over the majority. The majority government is not identical to the majority itself and hence would eventually be alienated from the majority. Unfortun­ately, so far no communist government has escaped such alienation. The moderate communists in the western Europe are still dreaming of the achievement they accuse their commu­nist brother in Russia and China of betraying an authentic proletarian government. As a matter of fact, there is no such thing as majority democracy. When democracy is denied to one person, it is denied to all. 
The reinforcement of absolute un­animity has necessitated a totalitarian government in every communist country. As a result, people become vulnerable victims. There is no right of election since a government centered on certain ideology has to be formed by hierarchy. There is no free press since every newspaper has to speak with one voice in keeping with that ideology. 
OR.IAHJOPEE, (1}(){.., CAN'rGeT MYPflfXJleM ANYSAFER THAN Y{)(}KNO/AJ, 1$ 7HATI THAT.' tuHAT5 THE THe GUYS... IXJNTFEeL-Pl?tJBleM r 
\

UH...ReAPY. 
I 
What originates the responsiblity of government of personnel if it is none of their own business? Success in admin­istration is not necessarily a criterion for promotion since ordinary people don't have a say on that issue. 
What difference does it make if you may claim that you own the state bank yet cannot .take a penny home? Only people with power have access to money there. Of course when the situa­tion deteriorates to reveal the hypocrisy in communism, there is crisis, in which power is transferred to a group perceived as less corrupt. These kind of crises occur periodically, almost predictably (every ten years in China). 
What motivates people to work hard it they don't get fired anyway? What motivates a factory to improve its pro­duction if bankruptcy never occurs? Communism does not allow unemploy­ment and bankruptcy, which it claims to belong to decaying capitalism only. When a factory is losing money, all the money in the state bank is poured out to compensate it. Public ownership of communism actually generates equalitarianism which rules out com­petition. 
The naivete of communist fantasy is that it tried to achieve social justice by elimination of competition. Of course, it did succeed in eliminating competi­tion in economy, and hence eliminating development. Instead, another broad field was opened for competition, com­petition in politics, which brought not development, but catastrophe. 
Since life began on our planet, there has been competition. It should not be surprising that egoism dominates the behavior of animal individual. Life as as whole evolutes through competition according to the rule of natural selec­tion. However, human individual com­petes not only for its physical existence in society, but also for its spiritual exis­tence in culture. In this world of still very limited material abundance, the drive for material wealth rather than spiritual accomplishment is dominat­ing human behavior. Competition still bears egoist mark and is far from be­coming purely spiritual. One funda­mental of communist morality is to live for others' happiness. Unfortunately, it never worked. 
If communism is nightmarish, how has it come to be accepted in some na­tions? Marx was not evil, nor is Mar­xism. Actually, when communism came to power in China, it was hailed as salvation by the majority with some-
Garry Trudeau 
YO!VINNIE.' SORR't YOU60T ' 
A PRIJ8-MAN.tlL lEM~ 8AO< 
' 
thing approaching religious zealotry. Marxism resembles the church in its attitude towards poor people. In some sense, Marxism is an image of Christi­anity in politics, though a distorted one. This may help to explain why churches in poor countries are often accused of communist sympathy simply becasue they help poor people. 
Competition promotes evolution, but, only at the cost of sacrificing the weak competitors. Competition is indeed gen­erally a constructive force, but it is blind, just like wind, flood, or any other natural forces. The process of natural selection is somehow painful. As a fan­tastic counteraction to ·the natural forces, religion has always been a part of the human dream of liberating itself from nature. Man has dreamed of transcending flood and earthquake, plague and death, and now competition. Communism represents an attempt and a failure to realize the dream in modern society. 
A contradiction about constructive competition is that it is self-destructive. The result of competition is the further differentiation between the strong com­petitors. This destroys the basis for a fair competition. The effect is espe­cially deteriorating when both social privilege and social disadvantage are bequeathed to future generations. That is how hatred and despair find their roots in the minds of children from poor families. When the polarization sur­passes human tolerance, a capitalist so­ciety may hearken to communist ap­peal. 
No doubt there should be some limita­tion to prevent differentiation from be­coming so huge. That is why each so­ciety needs a government and law. The question is where, how and to what ex­tent should the limits be set. The socialization of capitalism in northern Europe and the capitalization of com­munism in Russia, and in China a few months ago indicate that both capitalism and communism have got to learn something from each other. Where elimination of one of them or reconciliation will be the result is un­known. While competition is definitely necessary for evolution, we should also 
consider  that  natural  selection  
produces serpents  as  well  as  human  
beings.  

Nile Huo (pseudonym) was once a member of Red Guard (not to be con­fused with any international terrorist organization) during China's Cultural Revolution. 
,---------------------------.

Campus Quote 
"The trouble with pre-marital sex is its power to impair this freedom of choice. At the very time a couple need the clearest view of one an­other and must be free enough from each other to decide whether to embrace each other for life, they are held in an embrace which makes them feel as though they have already done so, and so their energy to face the life decision is weakened.'' 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell "For Better, For Worse," 1985 
General Board 


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief .. ........................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P Murray Managing Editor .................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Wtiitton
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor ..... .. .. ............. Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor.. . . ................................ Jim Ailey Production Manager ..... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Ed1tor .. . .. ....................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .... .................. Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor . .. .......... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .... .... Michael Naughton Controller..... ........ ....... .. Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Samt Mary's Ed1tor. .. ............. Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ...... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor. .. ........ Jim Carroll Development Manager.. .. .. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer --April 24, 1987 
KIM YURATOVAC features writer 

A 
n Tostal Is Notre Dame's answer to the "nothing-to-do-In-South-Bend" syndrome. The favorite pastime of many Notre Dame students Is com­plaining. "But there's so much to com­plain about." you say. There's the alco­
hol policy, the lopsided male-female ratio and South Bend. 
Notre Dame has long suffered through an Identity crisis In the party area. "I thought Notre Dame was a "dry" campus," a friend asked. "Well," I told her the whole story of the exodus 
off-campus. I started with the campus VIew party cruises, continued through Bridget's, 
and ended with the South Bend cops. "What about the bars?" she asked. "This Is Indiana. You need an ID, a really good ID," I tried to explain. "I think you should transfer to Univer­sity Of Illinois, "she told me. 
Trying to defend the reputation of the Golden Dome, I told her about some of the better weekends I had here. "You mean the cops actually send the dogs on students," she gasped. Dramatically, I told the story of Notre Dame students who were brutally breathalyzed and 
harrassed while trying to er\Joy a party. An Tostal Is Notre Dame's chance to party. OK. so It Is non-alcoholic. But 
Notre Dame Is Infamous for Its at­tempts to throw non-alcoholic parties. We did have the world's largest musical chairs competition, and then there Is 
Theodore's. An Tostal hasn't yet attracted the masses that nock to Indiana University 
for the Little 500, or to the University of Wisconsin for Halloween. But those are state schools. They are supposed to be party schools. Besides, Wisconsin has a grandfather clause In Its drinking law that makes many of us under 2 1-year­olds legal there. And Indiana University gets .3000 kegs for their Little 500 
weekend. 
I asked some students how they thought An Tostal could be built up Into a bigger, more famous event like those of the state schools. "Alcohol would make the event better," was the most popular response. "Couldn't they 
bend the rules just a little, like at SYR's or tallgaters?" they asked me. But we all know that we can have a good time without alcohol, I assured 
them. "At this school," said Doug Reil­ly, "If there Is alcohol, people get more relaxed." I reminded him of the alcohol policy and told him that I knew the University wouldn't go for the Idea. "The people who are going to drink are going to drink regardless of the alcohol policy. It would be safer to drink on campus," said Reilly. As with any dis­cussion about the alcohol policy, we 
came to no peaceful resolution. 
"I think An Tostal would be more successful if the faculty gave no papers or exams during An Tostal," Steve Rawlings suggested. Keep dreaming, I thought. It wouldn't be Notre Dame without all of the work. Rob Walters suggested that the An Tostal committee should send out questionnaires polling the students about what events they would like to have. "They should pump up the popular events like Bookstore Basketball and the mudplts more, to 
make them a bigger tradition," Walters continued. 
see AN TOSTAL, page 4 

-~--------~ 
The Observer --April 24, 1987 Scene-Page 2 
Louder than bombs:turn it up 
Rounding out An Tostal weekend 

get annoying at times. Second­ly, this album has eight songs on it which have been released on other albums already in dif­ferent versions. The new ver­sions here are often disap­pointing. especially the re-working of the once haunt­ing "Back To The Old House." 
On the bright side, Johnny Marr's innovative beautiful guitar work continues brilliantly and most of the new songs here are really great. Their as­tounding musical range is really shown off well here, from the quasi-hardcore "London" to the lullaby-esque "Asleep." 
Louder Than Bombs is a good Smiths album to get if you've heard about them but don't have any of their albums. Don't expect themes. This is a singles album. Whether the Smiths become the Rolling Stones of the Eighties is anyone's guess, but most of the music on this album proves them to be an important. inter­esting. and innovative band. 

Frivolous Friday 
Jello-0 Toss Licorice Eating Bookbag Toss Hot Pepper Eating Mattress Race Egg Drop Donut Eating Watermelon Seed Spitting Treasure Hunt Pie-in-Face Egg Toss Tire Rolling Pie Eating Keg Toss Cereal Eating Cow Chip Throwing Popcorn Eating Obstacle Course Car Stuffing 1mpersona tons Loudmouth Serf Auction Friday Night Dance 

Sunny Saturday 
Road Rally Hangover 51\ IOK Kite Flying Picnic Balloon Toss at Picnic Orange Passing Wheelbarrow Race Bucket Brigade Potato and Spoon Relay Sack Race Clothes Relay Three-Legged Race Mud Pillow Fights Mud Wheelbarrow Race lnterhall Mud Tug of War Mud Pits Mud Volleyball Chariot Races Frisbee Golf Frisbee Finals Recess 101 Timbuk 3 Concert 

Serene Sunday 
Bookstore Basketball Finals 1:00 

······f~········~···· 
l!l f!J}-t'b ---­
f.J/" $ CAFE 
ev-APRIL 
• 
Wed. 1 Eddy Clurw-Frl. 3 Prlecllla Phllllpa I FrieMa Sal 4 Duu Tonm-1 P-Trio 

• 
Wed. I Junior Welle Fri. 10 Heall8tlon B"-a Band Sal 11 Heallatlon Bluee Band 

• 
Wed. 15 Big Twtal I Mellow Fellowa 


Fri. I 7 Shartca Sal. !ISh-• 
• Wad. 22 Lonnie Brooke 
Fri. 24 Soultlalde Denny • The SldniOIIH 
Sal 25 Soulhalde o.nny & The Sklntonea (0 Wondy Coty Wednesday·s­Chocago Blues Artosls) 
SunUy., u-Ha,.y Slauhr, WVPE DJ 
Lunc:tl & Din_. Tun.-Sun.. ALL CaJun-.. 
100 Center, Mishawaka 256-0710 
You must be 21: cover charged. 


Students earn money and gain job experience this summer. Positions 
now open in:  
• Marketing  • Finance  
• Personnel  • Accounting  
• Distribution  • Manufacturing  
• Communications  • Telemarketing  

No experience necessary. No fee, no contract. We have the positions/hours to keep you busy this summer. 
l\onell' Contact these offices for more information: 
SIIMC(IK 
1900 East Golf Rd. Schaumburg, Ill. 31;2/882-1233 
2400 Devon Ave. Des Plaines, Ill. 312/699-0950 
2021 Spring Road Oakbrook, Ill. 
312-574-2797 
1601 North Bond St. Naperville, II. 3121.369-2440 
8707 Skokie Blvd. Skokie, Ill. 312/673-4024 
4740 West 95th St. Oaklawn, I II. '­312/636-0401 

Bring in this ad and receive an additional $20.00 on your first paycheck. 
645 North Michigan Ave. Chicago, Ill. 312/337-6054 
150 North Wacker Drive Chicago, Ill. 312/977-0791 
108 N. State St. Chicago, 111. 312/782-4181 
Northwest Office Automation 2700 River Road Des Plaines, Ill. 312/699-9970 
Chicago Office Automation 
108 N. State St. Chicago, Ill. 312/346-9276 

The time is getting near­
so use your Senior Club cup while you still can! 

DRAFTS 75 CENTS TONITE 
The Club will be closed on Saturday 
KEVIN WALSH features writer 
A 
common rock critic com­plaint is that there aren't enough exciting and adven­turous bands around these days. They hearken back to the 1960s as a time when bands like the Beatles and the Rolling Stones (inarguably the biggest and best bands of that time or any time) were daring and commercial at the same time. A sort of glow emanates from these bands because they began at a time when rock criticism itself was in its in­fancy. 

Records 

~ \\ The Smiths ~ \Louder than bombs 
As critics and fans alike grew more jaded and discriminating. the idea l,r the rock star changed aud so did the music. Inexplicably, before anyone knew ll most rock music was dull, populist trash. Im­mediacy, energy. and inspira­tion had fallen by the wayside to danceabllity, showmanship, and technical competency. This was what plagued the 1970s. 
Punk re-established rock and roll as the domain of the young. the energetic, and the slightly insane. Disregarding the current. disturbing trend of metronomic, syncopated, coldly programmed synth­music junk. the crop of what rock history will regard as the important Eighties bands (not Boston, not Bon Jovi, and not Genesis) owe their start to punk. 
Louder Than Bombs, a sort of double album retrospective of the band's history thus far, is the Smiths' latest offering to the American record-buying public. It can't really be called a "new" album, because it only boasts six "new" tracks, making the majority of the songs here "old." This market­ing ploy is a little too cute for my tastes, since this double album's new songs insure that old fans will buy it. while its Greatest Hits nature insures that new fans will be attracted, 
too. 
Most of the music here represents an interesting evolu­tion of the musical punk ethic. Smiths songs can be divided roughly into two categories and this album, patchwork though it is, is no different. 
The first grouping are the ambiguous, confusing love songs, like the great new "Is It Really So Strange?" and "Ask." Many times these "love" songs are deceptively violent lyrically. The speaker in "Is It Really So Strange?" tells his lover: "Oh yes, you can kick meland you can punch moond you can break my face-but you won't change the way I feeVCause I love you ... " This is not a tradi­tional lov.e song. 
The other category of Smiths'songs --political and social comment songs --are not as prevalent here as they are on other albums. "This Night Has Opened My Eyes" is an especially moving song against either abortion or maybe what would happen if there were no abortions. 
This is what I meant about the furthering of the punk idea of turning pop music on its ear. Like so many "enigmatic" Eighties Bands (REM, Let's Ac­tive), the Smiths tend to throw out a certain feeling through the various images they write into their songs. 
I have only two complaints regarding Louder Than Bombs. First. a general complaint that I have with some of the Smiths' songs is that Morrissey is sometimes a little too verbose and wandering in his lyrics, and his tra-la-la yodeling vocals 
12:30 12:30 12:45 1:00 1:00 1:15 1:15 1:30 1:30 1:30 1:45 2:00 2:00 2:30 2:30 2:45 2:45 3:00 3:30 3:45 4:15 4:30 9:00 
Alumni 
Cushing 
O'Shag 
Alumni 
Cushing 
Alumni 
Alumni 
Alumni 
Admin. steps 
Cushing 
Alumni 
Cushing 
Alumni 
Cushing 
Alumni 
Cushing 
Alumni· 
South Dining Hall 
Alumni 
Sorin Stage 
South Quad Stage 
South Quad Stage 
Stepan Center 
9:00 9:30 10-11:00 11:15 11:45 11:50 11:55 12:00 12:05 12:10 12:15 12:20 1:00 1:15 1:25 1:15 1:30 2:00 4:00 5:00 8:30-11 10:00 
South of Stadium Stepan Center Stepan Field NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center NW of Stepan Center Mudpits Mudpits Mudpits Mudpits Mudpits Mudpits Holy Cross Hall Notre Dame Stadium Stepan Center 
Stepan Courts 

The Observer --April 24, 1987 Scene-Page 3 




Timbuk 3: a dynamic duo 
DENNIS CORRIGAN reatures writer 
T 
imbuk .3 isn't your average group. When they play out­doors at Stepan Saturday, you'll only see two people: the husband and wife duo of Pat MacDonald and Barbara K. So why the Tlmbuk .3? 
Besides the fact that Barbara says three is the group's lucky number, the third member of the group, T.3, Is a jambox which plays prerecorded bass and drum machines to the duo's onstage guitar playing. It's an unusual mix. but then Tlmbuk .3 Is an unusual group. 
The group hit It big with their debut album, Greetings From Tlmbuk .3, which featured a mule carrying a television on the jacket cover. Their debut single, "The Future's So Bright. I Gotta Wear Shades," went Top 20. In addition, the album was one of the most original of the year, mixing a variety of rock. country, folk. blues and reggae. 
Pat and Barbara originally met in Madison, Wis., but moved to Austin, Tex., and a club called the Hole In The Wall. After an appearance on MTV's "The Cutting Edge," 
I.R.S. signed the group to a record contract, and the group put on Its shades. 
In a recent phone conversa­tion with Barbara, she talked about the group's recent European tour, philosophy and more. 
How were you received everywhere? 
It went really well. I was surprised. We were real popular in r:ngland at least and some other countries are starting to catch on to our music too, which is kind of interesting to me (laughs). 
Are you really surprised by the success you've had? 
Sure, I mean it's kind of rare that bands put out their first 

NO 'E»I Ironwood liquors 1725 North Ironwood South lend 272-71.W  
THINK BIG r Contact Marc Middleton or Bob Yonto Lease a Plymouth Horizon "America" with Air Conditioning, 5-Speed Tranuxle and AMFM Stereo for $145.84 a month. Leuee pa)'l an Initial aecurtty depoalt of St 75.06 arw1 $14!5.84 per month tor 60 monthl, tor a total of $8825 . .t0 with an opUon to buy. leaaee agreea ID pay for damagn And $.08 per mfle for mileage over yearly average Of 18,000 miles at the term~natiO"' of the leue. Exdae tax and llcenea extra 0 UNIVERSITY PARKLEASING CHRYSLER-PLYMOUTH 1l£LEASINGijUQjJ,jil@ 5210 N. Grape Rd., Mishawaka 271-4145 PROFESSIONALS - 

University Counseling Center is pleased to Sponsor 

TIME PLACE. 
DATE 
record and have so much suc­
cess. Although, there are lots 
of bands. There's a whole new 
crop of bands --really good 
bands--that are getting airplay 
on the radio. It was a good 
year for new bands. 
Other bands out of Austin? 
There are a lot of bands that are doing well In Austin. Maybe more regionally that are real successful or in a few regions of the country. There aren't that many that have good record deals where they go to record companies promoting albums. Although the T-Birds are certainly an exception. They're doing great. 
What do you think It Is about Austin that there are so many bands coming from there? 
We're a supporter of original rock and roll. It's just the com­munity. There are so many clubs to play and lots of bands. It's a vibrant music scene with all different styles. There are a couple blues clubs, rock clubs, and big clubs that can have touring bands and also help out the local acts. It's really good. 
And then there's The Hole In The Wall. 
And then there's The Hole In The Wall (laughs). 
Were they happy to see you back? 
Oh, yeah. We played there under an alias right before we went to Europe and had a great gig. We haven't played there since we've been back. As a matter of fact. I was there last night. 
You have so many different styles of music on your album. What types of music were most Influential on you? 
Oh, all different kinds. Pat listened to the radio, and I was more Influenced or actually Inspired by live music because I grew up mostly In Texas 
WVFI Top Ten 
1. 
Set Me Free (Rosa Lee) Los Lobos 

2. 
Living in a Dream Psuedo Bcho 


.3. Now We're Getting Somewhere Crowded House 
4. 
I Go Crazy Flesh for Lulu 

5. 
Bizarre Love Triangle New Order 

6. 
Life's What You Make It Talk Talk 

7. 
Honeythief Hipsway 

8. 
Ever Fall in Love Fine Young Cannibals 

9. 
Running Up the Hill Kate Bush 

10. 
World Shut Your Mouth Julian Cope 


This chart compiled from the playllsts of WVFI-AM640 as of April 22 

where there's a lot outdoors all 
year round. I know that Pat 
used sneak his radio under the 
covers at night when he was a 
kid and turn It up only loud 
enough so that he could hear. 
I read a quote In Rolling Stone where Pat said that the "universe vibrates to a 8o Dlddley beat." What Is that? Is he a big 8o Dlddley fan? 
I think he's a fan of the Bo Dlddley beat or what has been coined the Bo Dlddley beat. We like the music of Bo Dlddley. I think his politics are a little questionable, though. 
What Is. the Tlmbuk .3 vtew of 
the world? 
That's a big question, you know. It's changing every day. Just going through Europe, through all these different countries, and experiencing different viewpoints on this and that -how they feel about us good old USA Americans over here. Nothing really hard and fast, just a kind of a feel for different things. It's pretty interesting. but it's always changing too. 
Will the European tour have 
any Influence on your next 
album? 
I guess everything that we 
experience somehow sees its 
way Into what we create and 
what we do. 
Where did you get the Idea for 
the mule on the cover of the 
record? 
I saw a picture In National Geographic when we were recording. It was a picture of a mule transporting a television through the narrow streets of a Moroccan village. We'd been thinking about using a televi­sion somewhere on the cover because some of our songs deai with TV and the media. I 
just thought It was a good 
Image. When I saw this with a 
donkey I thought It was really 
comical. Originally, when we 
tried to get the actual photo­
graph, we could never talk to 
the photographer, just his 
agency. They wanted to charge 
$10,000 or something to use 
the photograph and that was 
more than we spent even 
recording the record. So we 
found Ears. 
The Observer --April 24, 1987 
AN 

TOSTAL 
Sights 
of Spring 
continued from page I 
Even though An Tostal hasn't yet attracted the wandering road-trippers of the Midwest, It is still good party. Where else could you find the world's largest basketball tournament, featuring 662 teams, with the most creative team names (at least they used to be creative). The finals of the bookstore tournament end the An Tostal events on Serene Sunday at 
1:00 p.m. at Stepan Courts. The final two women's teams and the final two men's teams will battle it out for the XVI title. 
Frivolous Friday should be 
called "Fat Friday" since many 
of the events center arond 
food. There are contests for 
licorice eating, hot pepper 
eating, donut eating, pie 
eating, cereal eating, and pop­
corn eating, to name a few. 
The An Tostal committee was 
clever in recognizing Notre 
Dame's love of free food. All of 
the food events take place in 
front of Alumni and Cushing 
beginning at 12:30 and lasting 
until 2:45. 
Friday's events also include a 
keg toss. Yes, the kegs are 
empty. But, who empties 
them? Someone told me that 
they shipped them up from IU. 
A mattress race, cow chip 
throwing contest, car stuffing 
contest, impersonations, loud­
mouth, and a serf auction are 
some of the other afternoon 
events on the South Quad. 
Sunny Saturday is also 
known as Muddy Saturday. 
Many consider the mudpits to 
be the highlight of An Tostal. 
People like playing in the mud, 
throwing mud, and most im­
portantly, throwing other 
people in the mud. This year's 
mud events include a chariot 
race, wheelbarrow races, pillow 
fights, volleyball, and tug-of­
war. The formal mud events 
begin at I :00 p.m.. The free­
for-all lasts as long as anyone 
can stand it. The mudplts are 
the ideal way to get back at 
those who threw you In the 
mud last year. The mudplts are 
also an Ideal way to let out all 
the frustration of the semester 
before finals. And they say 
Notre Dame is a dry campus. 
Saturday's events do Include 
a lot more than the mud. 
There are the hangover 5K and 
!OK at 9:.30 a.m. at Stepan Center. Satrday morning and early afternoon is filled with picnic events, including a three-legged race, a sack race, and a balloon toss. And Satur­day night there's recess. Is that Notre Dame's answer to the 
alcohol policy? Recess lasts 
from 8:30-1 1 at Stepan Center. 
The highlight of Saturday 
evening's events is the Timbuk 
3 concert. Timbuk 3 is one of 
the hottest bands to invade 
Notre Dame in a long while. 
The concert is outdoors at at 
Stepan Courts at 10 p.m.. And 
the event is free. 
So there you have it, An 
Tostal, the Notre Dame tradi­
tion. If this year's events are 
successful, maybe the word will 
get out. Maybe next year Notre 
Dame will get 3000 kegs for An 
:ostal, emp!l, of course. 

An Tostal 
J. Farley pulls in a win 2. A spring swing 3. JELLO--not just for dessert 
4. The secret to Druid growth 5. Passing the orange--Does Dulac approve? 6. Foul much? 7. Yeah, we're cool. 8. Wanna go to my SYR'? 9. Slamming in the rain 10. Girls strut their stuff at Air Band Competition 1 1. Twisted and still smiling 12. Peacefully paddling along Lake Marian 13. Saint Mary's g iris at the end of their rope 


-


The Observer --April 24, 1987 Scene-Page 6 

Notre Dame concludes s 
By MARTY STRASEN to rally Stewart's troops from a 
I 0-.3 deficit. The Blue did provide a com­
While this year's 57th-annual eback threat, but the Gold held Blue-Gold Spring Classic Is not on to post a 24-I7 victory. surrounded by the hype of last "I am definitely going to stay year's debut of Irish head coach up there this year," Holtz said. "I Lou Holtz, Saturday afternoon's told coach Stewart after the intrasquad battle might just be game last year that I'd give him one of the most important spring another chance in the next one." games played to date. This time, Stewart will call the 
The last session in a 20-plays for the Gold squad, and will practice spring gets under way be banging heads with new Irish at I :.30 p.111. In Notre Dame outside linebackers coach Barry Stadium and gives the Irish an Alvarez, who will coach the Blue. opportunity to dispel any notions Once again, the losers of the that a tough spring with limited contest will be required to per­numbers has not shaken a team form a total of I 00 hours ofcom­coming off a 5-6 season. munity service around the South 
"The players think it's been a Bend community. very physical spring," Holtz said. "That's really not because we've OFFENSE been playing more physical foot­ball, but because we've been Quarterbacks -Junior Terry doing the same things with less Andrysiak has established him­people. self as the No. I signal-caller this 
"That takes a lot out of a spring, and will be looking to player, but I'm just pleased that tighten his reign as he leads the we've made it through the Gold. The 6-1, 18I-pound workouts without any serious in­Andrysiak has always been 
juries. That comes with good tabbed as a runner, but showed fundamentals and a good atti­in the team's third spring scrim­tude." mage that he can throw the ball 
No, this year it was not injuries as well, racking up I89 yards in The Observer /Greg Kohs' 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame tailback Mark Green breaks through look to lead the Blue squad In tomorrows annualwhich left Notre Dame with a the air on a 12-of-I7 completion the line last year against Pittsburgh, and. will Blue-Gold Spring Classic.
depleted roster. It was the ratio. Sophomore Tom suspension of tlve players from Chapleau, a walk-on who has ferson (5-9, I79 pounds) has at a position lacking consistency Scott Bufton are back at the in-spring play because of discipli­seen limited play this spring, will been perhaps the biggest and thus far. side spots. nary reasons (linebackers Cedric be the only back-up for most pleasant surprise this Junior Reggie Ward will handle For the Gold, converted ful-Figaro and Dan Quinn, and fresh­Andrysiak. spring, coming off a knee injury the flanker duties for the Blue in lback Frank Starns and hard-man offensive linemen Jeff Pear­The Blue quarterbacks have and making things happen. Jef· front of walk-on James Sass, hitting sophomore Greg Hudson son, John Zaleski and Jason the depth advantage, but will ferson scored three touchdowns while sophomores Ray Dumas are at outside linebacker, backed Cegielski), as well as pair of need either Pete Graham or Steve in the scrimmage just prior to and Aaron Robb will share time by Kevin McShane and Mike players still out until fall under Belles to come up with a big per­the Easter holiday, and is giving for the Gold. Visovatti. Freshmen Mike Proposition 48 (linebacker John formance to counter the play of last year's leading rusher, Mark Give the depth advantage to Stonebreaker and Greg Harris fill Foley and quarterback Tony Andrysiak on the other side. The Green, a run for a spot on the the Blue at tight end, with junior the inside slots. Rice). two big sophomores have been No. 1 team. Francisco is also Tom Byrne and walk-on Mike 
The Blue-Gold Classic, sharing time with the No. 2 of­playing on a rehabilitated knee Brennan, while the Gold team Secondary -With each team however, gives Holtz a chance to fense, with Graham keeping the but has been carrying the ball will rely solely on the services of having two players at just about forget all the problems and have ball in the air most of the time more and more as the spring has sophomore Kurt Zackrison. every position, the defensive sec­a little fun before the pads are and the 6-4 Belles doing a lot of progressed. ondary might be the deepest unit put away until August. running. Behind the Blue team's Green, a 6-foot, I8.3-pound Offensive Line -The standard taking the field tomorrow, and 
"It's important after a long, version of the twin towers will be sophomore, led the Irish last task of the linemen in the Blue­Holtz is hoping that translates hard spring to end it all on a fun walk-on Joe Fuqua, who has year with 406 yards, has picked Gold Ciasic is to survive, and with into some hard hitting and quick note and give the players a been used mainly in specialty up where he left off this spring the suspension ofthree offensive feet preventing the big play. chance to compete," Holtz said. roles during spring workouts. and will start for the Blue. The linemen at the start of the spring, The Gold squad looks to have "It should be fun to watch." speedy ex-flanker led the Irish in the situation is even worse this the edge on paper with what 
Tomorrow's game also gives Tailbacks • If Holtz' claim last both rushing and rece1vmg year. could amount to three or four Irish tight ends coach George year that teams with initials in categories in the second spring Co-captain Chuck Lanza will starters. But with the balance of Stewart another opportunity to their names are tough to beat scrimmage, and is always a line up in the middle of the Blue talent in the backfield, you can keep Holtz in the pressbox. applies to individuals as well, the threat when he gets to the out­line, and will be helped in the never be too sure what is going 
Last year, after vowing to Gold will be strong at tailback. side. Green will be helped with trenches by Marty Lippincott, to happen on the field. remain in the upper level of the 'AJ' and 'DJ' -Alonzo Jefferson the tailback duties by walk-on Tom Freeman, Chuck Killian, At strong safety for the Gold is stadium pressbox and watch his and D'Juan Francisco -will share Jon Monahan. Pete Rockich, Dean Brown and sophomore George Streeter, assistants do the coaching, Holtz time in the backfield, and should Tom Rehder. who looks to have one of the found himself on the Blue provide a consistent threat shuf­Fullbacks -Freshman Anthony For the Gold, co-captain Byron starting jobs at that position. sideline in the second half trying fling In and out. The senior J~-Johnson, the team's second­Spruell fills the right tackle slot, Streeter is backed up by walk-on 
leading rusher last season, has flanked by Tim Grunhard, Steve Marc Dobbins and Marc Gleason. spent the spring season making Huffman, Ted Healy, Dam Prin­For the Blue, Yale transfer Pat the transition from tailback to zivalli, Jim Dadotis and Vesey Eilers should start at strong fullback. Tomorrow, he will be Wilborn. safety, in front of Doug Diorio. tested, as the 6-1, 220-pounder With the limited number of Sophomore Corny Southall gets the starting nod in the Blue players, you can bet that just has the free safety job for the backfield. Johnson will be about all ofthe above-mentioned Gold, whilejunior Chris Kvochak backed up by Joe Jarosz, who players will be pleased when the and freshman Dave Jandric are has seen time with the reserve final quarter expires. at free for the Blue. offense this spring. Junior Marv Spence and fresh­
The Gold team has what DEFENSE man Stan Smagala start at the amounts to the spring's top two corners for the Gold, while junior fullbacks in senior Pernell Taylor Defensive Line -The defensive Mike Tafelski and freshman Pat and freshman Braxston Banks. side of the trenches is not in bad Fravel are sure to see some time Each rushed for better than 200 shape as far as numbers are con­behind them. For the Blue, yards from the fullback slot in cerned, and a low-scoring con­juniors Brandy Wells and James I986, with the 216-pound Taylor test might just be the result. Bobb will cover the corners, gaining 284 yards and the 208-Rich Morrison anchors the while Mike McLooneand Bob Sat­pound Banks adding 209. Gold team from the nosetackle terfield will tlll ln. 
position, while Matt Dingens and Wide Receivers-Last year's Blue­Bryan Flannery will line up beside Kicking Game -Untested. Gold game's top offensive him in the tackle positions. Mark That word describesjust about player, who also happens to be Nigro and Steve Roddy will be all the kickers for Notre Dame, an all-American, will suit up for the main reserves. as John Carney and Dan Soren­the Blue squad this year and is For the Blue, Tom Gorman fills sen took care of all those duties slated to start at the split end the middle, with Jeff Kunz, Ted in the past. position (although normally a Fitzgerald and Michael Crounse Top placekicking prospect, flanker). Junior Tim Brown has tllling in at tackle. junior Ted Gradel, will join soph­been the big-play man for the omore James Sacco on the Gold Irish this spring just as he was Linebackers -Much of the heavy team, while junior Vince Phelan in the fall of '86, and will share hitting this spring has come from will take care of the punting time with junior Tony Eason for the outside linebacker position duties. the Gold. At split end for the Blue for the Irish. Junior Darrell For the Blue, sophomore will be emerging freshman Pat "Flash" Gordon and freshman Reggie Ho will be aiming for the 
The Observer/Greg Kohs 
Terrell and sophomore walk-on Rod West fill the outside backer uprights, while sophomore 

Irish flanker Tim Brown was last year's. Blue-Gold offensive MVP, Brad Alge, who also could make slots for the Blue, while junior David Munger will do the pun­leading the Gold squad to a 24-17 victory. a name for himself in the future Wes Pritchett, Mike Farrell and ting. 
The Observer --April 24, 1987 Scene-Page 7 .. 

What was once round of 662 has been narrowed to Elite Eight 
By PETE SKIKO 
and BRIAN O'GARA 
Sports Writers 
Eight teams. Seven games. One champion. The laws of the game of basketball tell us that any one of the eight remaining squads are capable of walking away from Stepan I as the newly­crowned Bookstore champion. 
But only five players will sur­vive the rigors of the next three days, and experience the glory and adulation befitting the win­ners of the month-long tourna­ment. Each remaining team has endured a long and grueling road, paved with Midgets, Druids, Fags, Team No. (take your pick). and Dead Chicks; as well as pouring rains, driving blizzards and biting winds. 
Today's games will be played on the Bookstore Courts this af­ternoon at 5 and 6, while the semifinals and finals will be played at Stepan. Here Is a quick rundown of the final eight teams: 
Party At Chips When We Repeat -The defending cham­pions have quietly become the team to beat In the tournament. Known last year as Lee's BBQ Roundhouse, Party at Chips returns four players and adds Rick DIBernardo to replace last year's Bookstore MVP, Jim Dolan. They have run teams Into the ground for the past three weeks with their height and quickness, scoring most of their points In the transition game. Bubba Cunningham, who also played for 1984 champion Macri's Dell, runs the show from the point for the favorites, while Steve Beuerleln adds outside scoring punch. DIBernardo, a member of the 1985 champion Fun Bunch, bangs the boards for Party at Chips along with Mike Kovaleski and Tom Antonini. 
Tequila White Lightning • A team that has been to the final 16 of this tournament for five consecutive years has to be highly regarded, and Tequila White Lightning certainly Is. Floor captain Lou Nanni, himself a former Mr. Bookstore, has once again molded this squad Into a cohesive unit that's hallmarks have been consistency and level­headed play. Nanni has quite a corps to feed the ball to this year, as Matt Dlngens has given Te­quila the big man that may have been the missing link In their previous Bookstore bids. The rebounding and Inside scoring of Dlngens and Sean Cullinan have added a new dimension to a squad that Is already one of the best passing teams In the bunch. Mike Scotty returns from last year's team to bring even more experience to the well-rounded unit. Brian Koehr, who led Te­quila with six points In the round of 16 on Wednesday, fills the fifth spot. 
Da' Brothers of Manhood ­Quick and exciting play has led Manhood through six victories and could take them to the finals. Joel Williams and Tim Brown return from lastyear's Much More Manhood, which made the Final Four before bowing to Lee's BBQ. Brown may be the key In­gredient for Manhood, running the fast break as If the court had yard markers. Williams teams with Donald Royal to give Man­hood the muscle and height un­derneath, while Kim Adams and Wes Shorter add outside scoring punch and quick hands on defense. Da' Brothers benefit from Brown's decision to stay on campus for the Blue-Gold game rather than head to the Drake Relays for the track team. 
New Order -This quintet from Grace Hall Is one of three un­ranked teams remaining In the tournament. They have dis­played hot outside shooting In recent games and play well to­gether as a team. Joe Hills has paced New Order with his quick­ness and shooting touch, while Tim Crawford and Ralph Ferrara both can fill up the basket from the outside. Ferrara tallied nine points In Wednesday's 21-18 come-from-behind win over 4 Fags and a Zahmble. Ray Blajda and Chris Jenks are the big men In the paint. while Hllls and Craw­ford have the height to bang the boards as well. 
Leone's Stallions -Last year's runner-up has run Its way to the final eight. holding Its opponents to under I 0 points In most games, Including a 21-8 drub­bing of Put It In The Hole, Chief, on Wednesday. AI Martin runs the break for Leone's, dumping off to teammates Mike O'Grady, 
---1987 SUMMER 
Gary Sasse, Blll Sullivan and John Leone. O'Grady's height and shooting touch Is comple­mented by crafty boardwork. while Sullivan and Sasse can go on scoring binges at any time. Leone replaces talented John Mundo from last year's runner­up. 
Who's Next••.Who Cares? -An unheralded fivesome from St. Ed's, the apparently apathetic Who's Next certainly doesn't play like a team which doesn't scout and prepare for upcoming foes. Joel Rump has had the hot hand lately, scoring seven and nine points, respectively, In his squad's wins In the rounds of.32 and 16. Mike DIPaolo is the floor general for Who's Next. wielding a deadly shooting touch and dis­hing out pinpoint passes to teammates Mike Nelligan, Greg Noe and Brian Brohman. This team lacks dominating height and relies on quickness. 
Corporate Raiders • Corporate Raiders has become the dark horse of the remaining teams, with help from a rather vociferous fan club. Fan support won't beat Da' Brothers of Man­hood, but great efforts from already-hot Pat Walsh at the point. John Buscher (and last year's nine-foot slam dunk king) at shooting guard, and Cedric Figaro Inside just might. The Raiders also need the defensive play of center Jeff Stump to remain consistent as the squad heads into the tourney's last leg. Outside shooting and a smooth transition game have carried the Raiders thus far. 
4 Slamma Jamma • Team play and the recent emergence of Scott H leks as a dominating pres­ence has been the driving force behind 4 Slamma Jamma's suc­cess. Hicks nailed 11 points In the squad's nip-and-tuck 24-22 victory over SOMFAW on Wednes­day, but when and If Hicks fal­ters, he has more than simply bit players to back him up. Ray Flan­nery and John Wassll have pro­vided scoring punch, and Chris Perozek. a first-team All· Bookstore selection last year, hopes to find some more of his old form late in the tournament. Tom Schuster Is a role player who wlll shoot when open, but otherwise wlll crash the boards. 
~Elite Eight 
Wtt.n W• RepNI  Tequill Whllti LlghtntnG  
....,.. 8t(10 !li:OO 1------.  1-----14!,14 8KU 5:00  
4'215 ST1 5:00 1-----­ 

4 BIMII'J\1 Jamml 
-----1 4'25 8T1 I cOO +2• 8~0 loOO J-----' l-----i""'OKlO 1•00 
.. 
0.'...._Brot,_,.. 




Women's Bookstore field down to eight 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Women's Bookstore Tournament Is down to Its Elite Eight. Here's a brief look at the remaining teams: We Weren't Cheerleaders In ·High School • After squeezing out a 21-19 vic­tory over We'll do Anything For A Quarter In the round of 16, Cheerleaders hopes Its balanced scoring will continue. 
"We have fun, but we work hard, too," said Kathleen McDavid. "We run a three-guard offense, but depending on the other team's strengths, we can go to the middle well, too." 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie • No doubt about It, this Is a tough team. Last year's champ, the Cookie looks to the scoring of Lavetta Willis and team quick­ness to demolish Its opponents. "I think our chances are really good If we keep playing the way we are," said Cookie player Zanette Bennett. "We are deter· mined to keep our title." The Cookie's defense has prevailed so far, having given up only two points in Its first two games. 
Iceman, Slider, Maverick. Goose • How About a Game of Hoops? · The team with the longest name, the members have played well throughout the tournament behind the scoring of Francine Kelly and Colleen O'Connor. "Francine really sets the tempo of the game," said a team member. "We've got a run· nlng team, and If we play our game, we'll do really well." 
Still Having Fun -Led by point 
SESSIQN---guardMaryBethBorkowskl,and

the rebounding of Jane Weldon, Having Fun Is looking to take top honors In the tournament. "We
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
The Summer Session is an excellent opportunity to supplement your academic year program at reasonable cost, only $88 per credit hour. 
--ADVANCE REGISTRATION-­
Advance Registration for the 1987 Summer Session is taking place now, April 23-30. Obtain the 1987 Summer Session Bulletin, which lists the courses available this summer, and the Summer Session Advance Registration Form from the Summer Session Office (room 310 Administration Building) and Departmental Offices. Summer Session Advance Reglst.-atlon Forms may also be obtained from Dean's Offices and the Registrar's Office. 
•DON'T DELAY -REGISTER TODA v­
:: 

~~----------------------~~~--.. 
-

have good overall players and a lot of balance," said Annmarle Reilly. "The competition this year Is really tough, but we just need to play well to win." 
Hoosier Lawyer??? • A team made up entirely oflaw students, the Lawyer has breezed through the tournament on the strength of basketball experience and teamwork. They had little trouble with Who Needs High Heels, Anyway? In their last matchup, winning. 21-14. A tournament fa· vorlte, the Lawyer should con· tinue to play well. 
fast Break five • Er\Joylng a great height advantage over most of the other Bookstore teams, the Five hopes that Inside play and rebounding are enough to carry them to the finals. "The competition looks really good," said one of the Five, Cynthia Gucklen. "We have good bal· ance, though. Everyone contrl· butes." Will that be enough? Only time will tell for the Five. 
Kukla, fran, Ollie, and 2 Other Players· Another team that relies on balance, Kukla has added quickness and endurance to get to the Elite Eight. "We play well as a team," said Tina Duffy. "We have a great combination of out­side shooters and Inside play." 
Quixotic Quint • A really tough team, the Quint looks to wrap up four great years of Bookstore play with a championship. "We are better this year with our new player (Kathy Brommeland)," said Regie Richter. "Kathy's awesome at center. The compe­tition Is good, but our height will help." The Quint, another team with balanced scoring. hopes to keep up their outstanding play and make this a tournament to remember. 
ELEGANT PASSAGE IS BACK 
with their spring line of cottons 
We promised you these last fall-cotton sweaters, pants, shirts, blouses, and the "famous" Baha shirt. 
All prices below wholesale. 
See you on April 27 through May I. LaFortune Student Center • Main Floor 
~-----------~-----­
-----~----~-~­
.. 
The Observer --April 24, 1987 Scene-Page 8 




Of bigots, Bakker & peacemaker King 
W 
hat I chiefly hate about this very cruel century is its unwillingness to tolerate heroes. Martin Luther King was a very great hero who kept tel­ling us, "I have a dream." It was a powerful dream, for which he was willing to put his life on the line. It was a dream which inspired other Americans, whose families had been badly used for many generations, to start dreams of their own. King's dream of black children and white children growing up peacefully together as brothers and sisters was so good that it seemed like one of the mes­sianic messages given to the Old Testament prophets. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
When King stood on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial to describe his dream in a speech, the streets in Washing­ton were jammed with crowds of his followers, black and white together, anxious to lis­ten to him as the new Moses delivering the slaves from bondage. He had a dream In living color which defined him as a patriot. He understood the abstract language in the official documents guaranteeing Americans their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap­piness. 
King's bitter enemies were not the politicians defending segregation as part of the Southern way of life. His real enemies are the detractors who now try to keep our minds off his dream by their insistence on our looking down at his al­leged feet of clay. He died for his country's sins in the way that soldiers die in a war. Bigots, fearing the image of him as a black Christ spread the stories dishonoring him as God's servant. They tried to disqualify him as a civil rights 
leader with an immaculate dream of children unbothered by prejudice. 
A story out of the Talmud says that at the creation, the Master of the Universe decided that living things should begin as seeds which keep getting bigger and bigger. Only sorrow was created fully-grown. People were created to decrease the size of the sorrows in the world. 
The devil continually tries to blind us to human goodness. "The evil that men do lives after them," Shakespeare wrote, "The good is often in­terred with their bones." 'There is always something." said 

Willie Stark. the politician out of the Louisiana statehouse In "All The King's Men." "From the stink of the diaper to the stench of the shroud, there is always something you can use as blackmail." That's a fairly Presbyterian outlook. about which Oral Roberts tells us not to worry, since sinners in need of hanging are saved by faith and not works. 
John Kennedy wasn't a saint. He wasn't even a martyr in the same sense King was. Still, Kennedy left us proud of being Americans, and the country has been going downhill ever since he died. Could we not give him credit for the size of his dreams as he showed them to us on his inauguration day or at the Berlin Wall? How many more books will be written to demythologize Camelot? 
We've become a nation of cynics anxious to find out the worst about people so that we can write them off as phonies. The Boston Irish who kept voting James Michael Curley for mayor were realists; they understood that human gran­deur is always flawed. 
Curley was a lovable rogue operating on the principle that you can't make an omelette without breaking eggs. Meeting a poor, homely widow, Curley would slip her some change. "Every woman needs money and good looks," he would tell her, "and now you have both." Such a compliment covers a multitude of sins. He was adored in South Boston as an Irishman who grew up poor and never forgot to take care of his own. 
Even though he spent part of his time in office as a jailbird, the voters whom he was good to didn't mind. They felt that he loved them, and that he would help the working man or his bereaved family when times were hardest. He would chase away the sorrow waiting at the door like a wolf. A month after Curley's death, Archbishop Cus­hing received the Cardinal's red hat for which he had been waiting for years. The Irish said, "James Michael got the Cardinal his promotion." 
Even if the courts declared James Michael a crook. the Irish knew that all was well with his soul. He was like the Good Thief who was told on his deathbed, "You will be with me in Paradise." 
Now, all the lovable rougues who used to rule the cities are dead. Edwin O'Connor wrote their obituary in "The Last Hur­rah." We will not see them elected to pubic office again. 
You have to worry about a man who doesn't have a dream, or who doesn't trust that other people have a dream that they live by. How could the television preachers have turned on Jim Bakker If they believed he was sincere as a shepherd of souls who brought the black sheep home? '"He's a cancer on the body of the Church," declared Jimmy Swaggart throwing the poor, soiled shepherd to the wolves because of a five-year-old sin. 

The electronic church has no sacrament of reconciliation available to the sinner needing to make his confession and receive absolution. There is no seal of confession; one preac­her discusses another preac­her's frailty on a talk show beamed coast to coast. There are no reserves of grace whi~h heal the soul and fill it with peace. Even the shrink felt free to describe Bakker rolling on the floor out of shame and self-hatred. 
Everything that happened was show business staged in a glass house, as simple enter­tainment. Such a religion has no grass roots; its pastors are con artists ignorant of what Christianity means by mercy and forgiveness. With them as his judges, Bakker was more sinned against than sinning. 
Once there was a famous teacher on this campus who used to remind his students that the Latin word "credo" doesn't mean "I behave." As the years went on, the teacher, through consistent self-neglect, got sick and slowed down physically. His former brilliance dimmed; he survived as a ghost, too burnt out for fresh insights. During the sad time he was dying. the students kept alive the reputation of his greatness. 
On the day of his funeral, I heard one freshman telling an­other, "He died of a broken heart." I could have con­tradicted him, "He died as an alcoholic," but it somehow seemed better not to. A kind of mythologizin!:i was beginning. and Notre Dame would be en­riched by the myth. 
Sometimes the opposite happens, however. Sometimes mythical figures are belittled for their feet of clay. Giants are forgotten as though they never existed. Their monuments rest in the hearts and minds of young scholars to whom they imparted the lessons of love and truth which decrease the size of the sorrows in the world. Like Martin Luther King. they serve God with their im­maculate dreams. I hope these myths rise from the grave to haunt the campus. 


AIM HIGH 

~ 

GET THE EDGE 
Air Force ROTC can help you stand out from the crowd. Our training program gives men and women an equal oppor­tunity for success. You can have a responsibll' position right away. Why settle fur anything less'? 
Air Force ROTC 
Ph. 239-6634 
All~¢:> 
lr~oERSHIP ExcELLENCE STARTS HERt 
Notre Dame 

Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&'Saint Mary's Theatre production of 









·m 
·' 
by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10 pm Sunday May 3, at 3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239·5957 

~v..-.x:.v..-~--7 
DOME 1987 DISTRIBUTION Outside Stepan Center (inside if rain) 2:30-4:30 pm please bring ID FINAL DAY!! 
all classes ('87 -'90) can pick up the book 

I~ 
--
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA 
Up to 20 Dupes of one Slide@ 50c ea. ( Color Correction and Discounts on larger quantities also available ) Contact Christopher in Rm. 13 CCE 239-5465 
SAB is now accepting applications for the position of: 
1988 Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman 

Applications are available in the sec­retary's office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune and must be returned by Tuesday, April 28. 
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 9 

Sports Briefs 
SMC aerobics instructors for next year are needed. Send resumes to Mary Jo Lambert or call Angela Athletic Facility at 5549. -The Ob­server 
The ND saili~ team finished third behind Iowa and Ohio State last weekend at the OSU regatta. Among the 18 teams the Irish beat were Michigan, Michigan State, Northwestern and Purdue. Mark Ryan finished third in A's with Sarah Hussey and Greg Barlow crewing, and Pete Wall finished fourth in B's with Paige Cooper crewing. The team will head to Ohio this weekend for a women's regatta. -T.he Observer 
Bookstore Basketball can be heard live this weekend on WVFI-AM. Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro will broadcast Saturday's semi­final games from 5-7 p.m. and Rudy Brandl, Kevin Herbert and Rick Rietbrock will describe the action for Sunday's all-star game and men's and women's finals from 1-4 p.m. -The Observer 
The Crew Team travels to Madison this weekend to compete in the Midwest Rowing Chamoionships. The team has nine boats entered in the regatta, which is its last race of the season. 
-The Observer 

The Blue-Gold Game will be played Saturday, April25, at 1:30 p.m. The 57th Annual spring football game is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are available in advance at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9-5, Monday through Saturday. Prices are: $3.00 for adults, $4.00 on game day, $1.50 for kids, $2.00 on game day. -The Observer 
• Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The~ Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The~ Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Apt. for rent this summer FOR SALE LOOK GOOD FOR THE WANTED: COMMENCEMENT AN­F6 GOOD LUCK ON MCATS 01-HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE CRAN­Call He1di 233-4176 SUMMER! 2 NEW PAIRS OF NOUNCEMENTS$$ Call Michael x2522 KNOCK'EM DEAD-ON TO UCLA­LEYIIII
NOTICES 
AEEBOKS! SIZE 9 11.! MUST SELL $45 WE'RE WITH YOU ALL F6 THE WAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE CRAN­OR BEST OFFER. £4020 GOOD LUCK, FA. GENEt LEYIIII ST. ED'S IS LUCKY NEED CASH? We will give you $80 tor HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE CRAN­Typ1ng FOR SALE:1978 VW AABBIT,GOOD HOWARD IS GRATEFUL your lour Neil Diamond tickets (in padded LEYIIII Free Pickup and Delivery WANTED CONDITION,$1,200,239-5693. ...............; ................................. seats sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12) and HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE CRAN· 277·7406 _ give you lour free bleacher tickets. Call LEVI III AIR TICKET:SOUTH BEND-LOS AN­U2 TIX 236-2495 and ask lor Theresa. WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS GELES,FAIDAY MAY 1,1:30 Only $25 apiece! Wordprocess1ng· Typmg SUMMER 683-8889 P M .. $120,239-5693 Call Dick at 1787 HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, LYNN (4341) FOR SALE 
272·8827 LOVE, MOM & DAD NEW DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M FOR SALE PUMA NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA 1976 Monte Carlo, sw1vel seat. AM<FM Kate "the Beast" Mullaney for UMOC LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR WARM UP SUIT 
TYPING AVAILABLE AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I stereo cassete player. 80,000 original Kate "the Beast" Mullaney tor UMOC Somewhere on campus there is a Mr. $35 NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL miles, a good winter car, $400 or best Kate "the Beast" Mullaney for UMOC Goodbar wrapper. Until Friday, there will CALL JOHN x-1745 287·4082 BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. alter. Must sell by or before gradualion. Kate "the Beast" Mullaney for UMOC be clues in The Observer lhal will lead IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL Call 232·6428 after 6PM. Kate "the Beast" Mullaney for UMOC to II. II you lind the wrapper, you win. MIKE AT 282-3727. TEAM AMERICA vs. MCATs Emerge UNIVERSITY RESUME 
NEAT VICTORIOUS Ill Proleaalonel Anumea SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS SHE'S BADI Student Ratao Counselors. 21 plus. Coed, sleepaway SHE'S BEASTLVI TOM SKUBIC Near the Mall camp, MassachuseHs Berkshires. WSI, TICKE AND SHE'S RUNNING FOR UMOC! for 272-8336 arts&crafts, tennis, all land and water VOTE FOR KATE "WITH EXTRA, EX­u.o.o.c. 
DANIEL C. GAUGHAN: IF EVER THERE 
WAS A PERSON WHO DESERVED TO shows, tude, pholography, dance, com· 277-8347 -two alios 
spor1s. gymnastics. drama. p1anC>jllay lor FOR SALE NEIL DIAMOND TIXI call TRA CHEESE" MULLANEY FOR UMOC Ugly DIPDOT on Campue... 
BE IN THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, IT EXPERT TYPING CALL IS YOU.GOOD LUCK ON THE MCAT
SERVICE. pulers, nature, Wilderness, model rock· Sadder than the Beastie Boys More pow­elry, gUitar. rad1o, v1deo,archery, year­Let me make an alter lor 1 graduation er1ulthan a shol of Tequila Able to drink
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SATUAOAY..I KNOW YOU'LL JUST 
POSITIVELY KICK .... A FUTURE PA­
book, woodworking, AN and typists. ticket. Call Tom al 233·5065 an entire pitcher ol beer In a single gulp ARE YOU GOING TO IU 
TIENT 
Non-le<ls lor $$$tred•t ne<t !all PAN­Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779-U·2 nx beal oHer £2026 UMOC TAKE ME WITH YOU I CALL NIKKI-283­DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. tusl 9408 3785. GLORIA ELEUTEAI all ol N D Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK' KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC Patience is a virtue 10-530. ph 233-2342 Kleplomama is a fault 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$-.. Wrne·Camp Emerson. 5 Brassle Ad, It's Kate "the Beaat" Mullaney for BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND ? 
SUMMER JOBS KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC IIAUDITIONSII IIAUDITIONSII ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PERSONALS Forgel all lhasa other wimps who are IIAUDITIONS!I NOTRE DAME FOLK It takes some time 
to make a rhyme

PRO· TYPE PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK running lor UMOC. Put a "real man" in CHOIR lor '87·'88 Contact Campus Min­And steal your lable sail.
Quality WOrk, word proc1111ng lVIII· MOUNTAINS oltlce. Vote Kale Mullaney tor UMOC. istry at 239-5242 
able. Re11onebla $. 277·5833. CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC INGS 914·361 -4224. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE KATE MULLANEY FOR UMOC Nomination• lor Pangborn'• Mlater 
Kevin Virostek

0 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Section 3 are now being accepled. Given You'll never bacorne a man of the cloth
annually to the senior who best e•­IF YOU ARE A OJ OR BAND RETURN­Need summer babysitters with own trans­Are you going lo Wally "Cool W" Stack emplilies the character and lradillon of 
il you can't even keep your clothes on. 
P.S. It's true.
ING NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CONTACT por1ation. P1ck your hrs. Auna 287-3315 be here for for Section 3, contact your local section rep­
ANNE AT 1675 YOU WILL BE PUT ON SUMMF.R SCHOOL??? UGLY MAN ON CAMPUS resentative. 
A LIST TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO ALL Vole "Cool W" for UMOC Michelle ..... only 21 more days 
HALL PRESIDENTS Need a female roommate for summer II so, The Observer needs your help In Hey Nat, how's ~ going. maybe tall too. Call Maureen at SMC producing some summer issues of the 
ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION BAN­
QUET ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATION The jobs are vaned and, II you are inter­with the FELLAS tornmorrow on Green ..................................................... 
5243 newspaper. CASE DAY-It's a good day. Celebrate it Hi Tricia H. Guess who? Hoo-Aahll 
BANQUET ACCOUNTING ASSOCIA· 
TION BANQUET ACCOUNTING
EARN$$$ PAAT-TIMEI ested in newspaper training in your spare Field! Mr Schultz II has been a good learning 
LOST/FOUND 
ASSOCIATION BANQUET ALL
Established manufacturer seeking time, call The Observer oltices and ask experience being in your wrillng clasa. 1 
MAJORS INVITEDIII "REFRESHMENTS" AT 6. DINNER AT
Aggress1ve Students to promote lor Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. MARCIA IMFELD Here's your personal· hope you heve an enjoyable summer. 
FOUND Woman's wedd•ng band, out­Your School Shoes. The Observer You are a SWEETHEART! Love, Sweats Linda Evans s•de law school. Call Gary at 234-8984 GOOD INCOME AND EASY WORK. and 
7. KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB. 
$3.00.
FREE Details: JAVELIN, 9825. Lackman Special Olymp1ca PIE IN FACEt D.C. CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK The D.C. lost. grey Boston College sweatsh•r1. Ad, NEEDS YOUIII BEAN YOUR FAY (OR UNFAV) Club will run a baggage truck to transpor1 
CHRIS, MY BEST TIMES WERE TIMES
Stepan 3. Fnday at the Bookstore games. LENEXA, KS 66219 CELEBS! COOKE & SINK all D.C. area student's baggage home. 
SPENT WITH YOU. YOU HAVE GIVEN
please return to Bedin 307 ·3713 VOCE You will receive a newsletter w~h tur1her ME ONLY GOOD MEMORIES ANDDO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M LEPRECHAUN delails taler nexl week. Questions call YOU'LL ALWAYS HAVE A LITTLE
Lost· CitiZen's watch -Roman numerals WANTED NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL· PADDOCK Mike at33BO w1th brown leather band. Somewhere on BLUEMLE lor U.M.O.C TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO ANDAYSIAK PIECE OF MY HEART. LOVE ALWAYS. 
AMYSMC campus. Please call 284-4288. He's UGLY to lhe BONE LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM FRIDAY 1:30 CUSHING YOUR .50 
"THE PURPOSE OF LIFE, AFTER AU, ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP GOES TO THE HEART FOUNDATION 
IS TO LIVE IT, TO TASTE EXPERIENCE FOUND Woman's prescnpt10n ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT282-3727. 
TO THE UTMOST, TO REACH OUT eyeglasses at bus stop near Lew School INDIANAPOLIS-BOUND GAADSI PIE IN FACEt POP HOWARD?
EAGEAL Y AND WITHOUT FEAR FOR on Monday. April 13. Call 272-7949 to female roommale needed I desperately need 2 Graduation lickets. NEWER AND AICHER EXPERIENCE." Identify June 1st II you help me, I will ensure your financial HOW DO YOU KNOW IF SOMEONE
I wish to do exactly that at Purdue this call: Mary Beth 284-5134 weekend. Desperately seeking a ride to
future, and finance your Senior Week Call PIE IN FACE! ROWS CREW? a) they have great lags Oe<k blue, Puma warmup tacket Wllh Mark at 2339. b) they heve grease marks on their legs 
West LalayeHe. Call PaUl 1:2986. 
kay& on N.D. keyche1n on 4'14 Stepan ....................;........................................... c) they wear Iunny blue jackets that cover 
.....................
Bookstore cour1a. Please contact Paul at Eem $2500-4000. Gain unbeatable busi­OK this is my final alter lor Graduation -· GOOD LUCK ON MCATS ••• needed: rides to and !rom the U2 CON· their bulls d) you never see them any 234-7584 Keys are only set I have. tickets. I'll give you my slsler and my MATT, PAT, SCOTT, more e) they will earn hardware In
nesa experience. Be the NO Soles & Mar­CEAT in Chicago tor two people. $$$$ 
roommate lor two Graduation tickets. SARA, MARY, JULIE! Madison on Saturday GO CREW Ill
ket•ng Director lor Campus Connection, call Paul 2287. 
FOUND PRESCRIPTION GLASSES They do not even have to ba together.
our nationally expanding, innovative ed·
(LADIES) 1n a salt black case on Nor1h Call Mark at 2339. NOTRE DAME CREW: The quickest
ver11sing guide. Currently al 42 univer­"Kaplan LSAT prep course? sities -we'll provide complete lralning. Why?" Your future! Classes start 5112 lor
Quad Tuesday n•ght Call Craig (not HOLY HANNAHI hands and slowest slides on campus. Dave, Greg, Greg, Dan or Joe) at ND-SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOMORROW, JEN­RAGE IN MADISON.
matenals, and suppor1. Call Chris Kelsey, 6115 LSAT. Call 272-4135. 
1694 Non-texts lor $$$tredil next tall. PAN· NIFER I 
Manager. at (805) 584-1280 lor complete 
DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just TIMBUK Ill
•nlormalion. Ideal lor ambitious. person­1 need a roornmale nexl year at Stanford 
FOUND A BASKET BALL ON olt ol N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI TIMBUK Ill
able freshmen-junior. Star1 earning in Unlv. Please call John at 283-1814. 
BOOKSTORE COURTS ON MONDAY. 10-530 ph. 233-2342 IGNACIO ARMAS: Have you had any TIMBUK Ill
May. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Tick
APRIL 13TH. IF IT IS YOURS , CALL V1aellne trouble• lately??? SATURDAY 10:00 PM STEPAN MIKE AT 1857 Thank You St. Jude P.N. COURTS
Tock Tick Tock LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR So 9:00 Warm-up WOAD OF MOUTH
As ol noon today. there are only 530 
LOST MEN'S GOLD COLOR WATCH FOR SALE L, close, so close, and yet so lar II it is tor hours lelt In senior year.WITH LEATHER BAND. IT WAS MY Goodbar you look And you seek to lind
II you ever do decide you want to bacome 
CHRISTMAS PRESENT DOES NOT his secret nook Why don't you just simply AAH-WHO?I? (YES, I KNOW IT'S
allached, look me up. SENIOR HOLY CROSS HOGS II II HAVE MUCH STREET VALUE. BUT ask tor the book? (Mrs. Urbanski knows CORNY. BUT... IT COMES WITH THE
cjl 
·M (Oid)Paul, Rich, Pete (Schlump), Lorry
PLENTY OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. all) AGE). CALL ME.
(LEroy),Dan, Doug (FHI), Patcjl
MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME IF SHE ............................................................. 
(Molehead), Frank, Dave B., Vinnie, Tom FINDS OUTI POSSIBLY LOST BE­Annie My band is playing tonight at Holy SCARY CARRIE FOR U.M.O.C.I SHE
Team America F.. Joe P.. John (ny Wad), Chris H., and TWEEN MOAISSEY AND KEENAN cjl Crank on Saturday Cross ( NO ) at 10. I'll look lor you but ANYONE ELSE I've lorgollenlll Thanks THINKS SHE'S A MAN ANYWAY. 
LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL you'll be at Bridget's, right ? Your SYA lor all you've done lor me, and lor the 
RAFAEL AT 3348, OR DROP OFF AT cjf dale GOOBER CLUE £3
lilelime ol memories! You'll never know LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTUNE. To lind the duck
Greg & Dave, how much I'll miss you. May you have ...cjf t-ehlrla atlll on ule... ell REMEMBER JAMAICA I slill have a lew Just lind Its NEST

There's more than one way to skin the all the good health and happiness pos­
alzn...cell 2139 anytime ... L & XL l·shir1s I JUST HATE THATI Only That's.where the duck
MCAT. Good luck on Saturday. slblell I LOVE YOU GUYS! II Jan $8 at 3651 Is laid to REST
-Mark & Jim ...live buckalll... 

The nest Is near

[ FORRENT 
TIMBUK Ill Rick wear A lake somewhere
Will a dress? Will Czar be cjt TIMBUK Ill It's on the ground,
"I knew I should have sent out 20 copies sober? Will Paul probe young women 
TIMBUK Ill Not in the AIR
ol that leHer." with drum equipment? Will Byron the8 bedroom 4~ students $400500 & 
SATURDAY 10:00pm STEPAN Found GOOBER? contact MJ at Howard
cjl Tone Master develop any sense ol
ullhllea. Security system 234 6688 
COURTS lor pnze
rhythm? Will Chris show up? To lind out. cjl 9:00 Warm-up WOAD OF MOUTH catch Blank Generation at Theodore's on
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
EMPTY PROMISES 
JOHN ZICThurs., 10 to 1.

SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­
cjl ................ii'M'm..PFioM'isiis............... ............................................. You ...tty ere wonderlull
8889 
Kerrle Wegner: So. when are you going I Love Youl
Some people are ugly, bul their ugly is 
.................... 
Moving oN-campus? Need furniture? to answer me? Your Oak Room Admirer only skin deep. BLUEMLE FOR P.S. Congl'llulllllonaFURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR 
Graduating seniors will sell bed, table, EMPTY PROMISES ................................................................ U.M.O.C . 
GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­
chlr, lamps. dresser and much, much The chicks say: "ANDY BRAUN FOR3684-288-0955 
EMPTY PROMISES · 
more. Everything must GOIII Lei's make UMOCI" Campaign donations accepted He's UGLY to the BONE TO KEENAN STUD WATERSKIERS a deall Call Joe and Tony 277-7209. at310 PW. BLUEMLE lor U.M.O.C . THANKS FOR A GREAT TIME (FAATS
.............................................................. SUMMER &CHOOL SPECIAL EMPTY PROMISES ........................................ EXCLUDED)! LOVE, AUBIKS & KITIY FOR SALE TWO NEW PAIRS OF 
1
hey PATIY( It still feels( like heaven right 

2 BAa remaining in large Mlko..Ya haven't told us lately how gar· now( -still like somelhin'( from a dream ... ( Franko
AEEBOKS, SIZE 9 11.!, MUST SELL $45 F5 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY DELIA AND house on NO Ave. Call geous ya are. We lorgotl Vote Micka S. 21 I Cradle robbing, what? Champagne
OR BEST OFFER. CALL £4020 LOOK DIANA LOZANO-NOTHING TOO WILD 255-5852 or 234·8681 for U.M.O.C. AMY CURTIS (YS) WELCOME TO MY llukes...Chips...ID? Well. Welcome to ND 
GOOD FOR THE SUMMEAI 2 NEW GIRLS F4 WE LUV YOU-KATHY AND PAIRS OF AEEBOKS, MERCY
Lovingly, A and J RED LIGHT! LOVE. THE OTHER ONE Teddy! Oh, happy belated, lwol Cathy 
r----~-~ ~~--->~-~~---------------· 
I 
The Observer 
Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 10

I 

AP Pboto 

Although Detroit's Steve Chiasson got the best the Maple Leafs dumped the Red Wings, 7-2, in of Toronto's Jeff Jackson in this confrontation, NUL playoff action Thursday. _ 
Order 
continued from page 16 
will be the best game out there today. But I'll ruin the surprise and tell you now-the New Or­der has arrived. 
Now I realize Leone's is the most intense team in the tourn­ament, and I know it has a great transition game. And I see how no teams have even come close to beating Leone's. Aye, there's the rub. They have not been tested. New Order has survived a few scares to get to this point and needs to be at its best to beat Leone's. But it will. 
New Order's balanced attack 
and hot shooting are peaking. 
Joe Hills, Tim Crawford and Ralph Ferrara as a backcourt trio provide the firepower, and Ray Blajda is blue-collar-un­derneath. If New Order can shut down the Stallions fast break and continuing shooting well, they're not done yet, baby (I've heard that before). 
Da' Brothers of Manhood may just have the best overall talent among the remaining teams. Corporate Raiders are riding in Cinderella's carriage and have been playing great team ball. But Manhood has been tested, they have just begun to click as a team and Tim Brown is staying in South Bend, so I don't see an upset in this one. 



SObering Advice·.: 

can save alife \-, 
Think Before You Drink ~ 
·4--'

Before You Drive ..­


-~ 
333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon&Thur 'til 9P.M. 
In the Final Four, then, we have Party at Chips against New Order and Tequila White Lightning facing Da' Brothers. 

New Order and Tequila will have to settle for finishing one step away. Party at Chips is just too much for the fivesome from Grace Hall. And Donald Royal will need to assert him­self more than he has, but Man­hood's quickness and the inside play of Royal, Joel Williams and Brown the leaper will over­whelm Tequila. 
Party at Chips When We Repeat vs. Da' Brothers of Manhood. 
Manhood has the talent, but Party at Chips is the better team, so I'll see you at Chips. 

..___O_UnltMI_w.u_--JI 

Oilers down Jets; Leafs stop Wings 
Associated Press 

EDMONTON, Alberta ­Charlie Huddy and Dave Hunter scored late in the first period Thursday night and the Edmonton Oilers went on to a 5-3 victory ovl;!r the Winnipeg Jets to take a two-game lead in the Smythe Division finals. 
The Jets, who have never beaten the Oilers in an NHL playoff game, host Game 3 Sat­urday night. 
The Jets scored first when Dale Hawerchuk stole the puck to the right of Edmonton ~oaltender Grant Fuhr and centered the puck to Thomas Steen, who beat Fuhr with a rising wrist shot at 6:35. 
But Huddy tied the game with his first goal of the playoffs at 16: 18 when his slap­shot from 45 feet went through 

Raiders 
continued from page 16 
rebound with Donald Royal, and if they can stop Tim Brown's quick first step into the paint (two pretty big if's, but the Raiders have the people to do it), they will beat Da' Brothers of Manhood. I expect overtime, and I don't think Da' Brothers can pull off another nailbiter. Raiders by two. 
In the semis, Party at Chips will face its most severe test of the tourney from Leone's Stal­lions, and still win by five or six. Too much height, too much muscle. Just too much. Corpor­ate Raiders could be a team of destiny, but I don't think it will be able to stay with Tequila a tangle of arms and legs and past Winnipeg _ goaltender Pokey Reddick. 
Hunter made it 2-1 at 18:30, rebounding Steve Smith's slap­shot past Reddick. 
Maple Leafs 7, Red Wings 2 
DETROIT-Toronto got first­period goals from Steve Thomas, Rick -Vaive and Dan Daoust as the Maple Leafs beat the Detroit Red Wings 7-2 Thursday night to take a two­game lead in their best-of­seven Norris Division finals. 
The Maple Leafs, who won only 10 NHL games on the road all season, now have won four of five away from home during the Stanley Cup playoffs. The series resumes Saturday night in Toronto. 
White Lightning late. I thnm this will be one of the best matchups of the to'Urney, with both squads virtually even on the boards and in team speed, but Tequila's desire to win the big one will be the deciding fac­tor. Tequila, 21-18. 
The final probably will be billed by the commissioners as the tourney's dream matchup, and there will be the pre-game hype, the throngs of students pulling for the underdogs and the drama building after the All-Star Game. Stay home and study, folks -you can mail this one in. Tequila White Lightning will be down early and stay down. But it shouldn't despair. No one could have prevented Sunday night's bash at Chips. 
At l~ast I hope not, or I'll hear about it for an awful long time . 

L--1_Bu_v_o_B_SE_R_V_ER_C_L_A_SS_IF_IE_D_S____. 




GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 

INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100lbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 


--------------------~~--.-~..--~--..--------------~,I 
I 
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 11 
Bookstore writers
Bookstore bits by Brian O'Gara, Pete Sklko and Theresa Kelly 
Brian and Pete's Most Censorable Uncensored Names (part 1) 
1. 
Paul Bunyan, Father Sorin and three other guys who... 

2. 
Chicken Patties, SMC Chicks, and three other things ... 

3. 
If You Fake It One More Time... 

4. 
Fawn Hall Desktop Aerobics and... 

5. 
Liberace, Len Bias and 3 Other Guys Who... 


Remaining teams with varsity athletes (men's teams) 
3 -Party at Chips When We Repeat (Bauerlein, Kovaleski, DiBernardo) 
-Da' Brothers of Manhood (Royal, Brown, Williams) 1 -4 Slamma Jamma (Hicks) 
-Tequila White Lightning (Dingens) -Corporate Raiders (Figaro) 
(women'• teams) 2 -Still Having Fun (Borkowski, Wel­don) 
-Double Decker Oreo Cookie (Willis, Bennett) 
-Hoosier Lawyers (names unavail­able) 1 -Quixotic Quint (Brommeland) 
-We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School (Waller) 
• 
only for those who deserve to be called the best -the Wo­
..-----------1111!1!---~--!II--111!1-JI!III--~~--------• men's Bookstore Basketball 
Observer Graphic 1 Pete Gegen 
V 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Champions.
·1 The true test for us comes'( THIS WEEF•KmSerAiesTPreseTntsH:E SNITE ~:'b~~J~~;~:;~ufi~~r~t~~h: 
winds and make our champion­ship predictions. 
Individual admission: $1.50 
The first game pits Double Decker Oreo Cookie against We 
Weren't Cheerleaders in High
Marlann• and Julianne (19811 Friday, April 24 at 7:30 & 9:30pm, Snlte 
Marrianne and Julianne Is the story of two sisters; it is also a story of the political turmoil of Germany in the 19708. 
School. We have to go with the 
Cool and precise on the surface, but seething with feeling and paradox underneath, von Trotta has fashioned one of the 
experience and talent of last 
most moving and penetrating portraits of the desperate politics of a chaotic era, and of the lives that were transformed by it. 
year's champ, Oreo Cookie. Al­though Cheerleaders made it to the final four in 1986, they won't 
Stardu•t Memorle• (1980) Monday, April 27 at 1 pm, Snlte 
be able to crumble the Cookie. 
Memnro.. as Alien's version of Frederico Feiiini's 8 112. Alien plays a harrassed celebrity filmmaker who discovers there's a meager satisfaction in such adoration. A bitter look at fame and success. 
The second game is tough to call, because the teams are evenly-matched and playing
Blind Alley (1939) Monday, April 27 at 9pm, Snlte A psychotic breaks out of prison and holes up in the house of a criminal psychologist <Ralph Beiiamy 1. He soon has the 
well. We're going to pick 
house terrified, until his "moil" (Ann Dvorakl decides it's time to get the psychiatrist to help him. But will he? 
Iceman, Slider, Maverick, Goose -How About a Game of Hoops to narrowly beat the 
Seventeen (1183) Tuesday, April 28 at 7:30pm, Snlte 
balanced attack of Still Having 
This fUm represents one seK•uem of a documentary commissioned by PBS to return to the town immortalized by 
Fun. 

sociologiats in their study Middletown. PBS decided not to air this segment on youth due to the attitudes the teens voice 
Hoosier Lawyer??? and Fast
about sexuality, drugs, and other social problems confronted in growing up. 
Break Five will also be a tough All ftlms are screened In the Annenberg Auditorium, Snhe Museum of Art. 
game, but the experience and solid play of the Lawyer will 
for a life of ministry and for service among the People of God, the Congregation of Holy Cross announces the ordination to the order of Priest: 
0. CJflichae/ {A/co.,er, @.d.@. flom {){ (J)a/y, @.e>J(CJ. 
(fflicltael ern. (J)ec-L)attP)J, @. Gr @. g/wma., 0. {)aug/tan, @.d.@. @J.m./e., [}3. {Jon/on, @.d.@. ge[[rey Jl. JliJJe/1, @.GJ@. f:Roberl 0. f.Roel:;e/, @.GJ~@. 
For further information about The Holy Cross Community and the One Year Candidate Program, contact: 
Fr. Mike Couhig, C. S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle, C. S.C. Vocation Directors P.O. Box541 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 
Phone: (219)-2.39-._6=.38=5;;;M:;;;==;;M;;;;! 
Women's sportsmanship award To 5 Mistresses of Captain Barbel, which best displayed the attitude that Bookstore should be fun. 
Kelly's favorite names (women's teams) ... 
1. 
Kimba and the 4 Potatoes 

2. 
Not Afraid of Public Ridicule 

3. 
We Chuckle in the Face of Chaos 


...and her favorite censored names (women's teams) 
1. Team No.5 
2. 
Team No. 25 

3. 
Team No. 80 


Brian and Pete's most offensive censored names (men's teams) 
1. 
Team No. 59 

2. 
Team No. 644 

3. 
SOMFAW 


You'll have to figure out their real names on your own 
How numbered teams fared 


pick Quixotic Quint 
The tourney began with 119 of 662 teams censored by the Bookstore 
As Women's Bookstore Bas­overcome the running and 
committee and given numbers. 
ketball enters the final rebounding edge that the Five
After the first round, 42 numbered 
weekend of competition, the have.
teams remained. 
tournament continues to run The final preliminary game
After the second round, 15 num­bered teams remained. 
smoothly, despite thun­has The Quixotic Quint taking 
After the third round, 7 numbered 
derstorms, worms on the court, on Kukla, Fran, Ollie, and 2 
teams remained. 
broken fingernails and rain­Other Players. We are picking
After the fourth round, 0 numbered 
shortened games. And despite the Quint to make it to the Final 
teams remained. 
some gaps in communication, Four by using its size and con­we've been able to get a pretty sistency to defeat the smaller, good idea of who's hot and team-oriented Kukla, Fran and 
Men's shutout 
who's not. Friends. 
4 Fags and a Zahmbie 21, Druids 0 
Women's unorlglnallty award To everyone -let's see a little more 
Anne Gallagher 
creativity on the court next year. 

Theresa Kelly 
Women's Bookstore Basketball 

Brian and Pete's 
Most Censorable 
In the early rounds, it looked 
Uncensored Names 
as if any team that had a set 
(part 2) 
play and a general idea of the
1. ...Like to Eat Beaver in the 
definition of defense would
Woods 2....ND Guys Like to Eat 
have an easy time. But now the 
3....I'll Spit in Your Face 
chips are down, and the 
4....the Rise of Oliver North 
remaining teams, the Elite 
5....Get into Some Bad Crack 
Eight, have earned the chance to bask in a spotlight reserved 
This leaves us with the Final Four, the dream come true for the women involved. In the first game, Double Decker Oreo Cookie will win. This team is loaded with outstanding players, and Iceman, despite its talent, will bow out in this round. 
Although Hoosier Lawyer??? has made a great case for itself, we're going to pick (with some hesitancy) the Quixotic Quint. Currently on a roll, the Quint only gave up five points in its Sweet 16 game. Again, the size advantage will tell the story. 
So in the final, it's Double Decker Oreo Cookie taking on the Quixotic Quint, a worthwhile championship matchup if there ever was one. This is finally going to be the year for the Quint, who will dethrone the 1986 champion and take the crown. The Quint can't lose, its history makes the outcome clear. As freshmen, the players got to the Elite Eight, as sophomores, they fell in the Final Four, and last year, they lost in the champi­onship game. Although the Cookie will be ready for the rematch, this is the year the Quixotic Quint will earn the coveted women's title. 

Boston tops Chicago 
Associated Press 
Robert Parish's 12-foot 
jumper broke a tie with 37 
seconds left and the Boston Cel­
tics survived a threat to their 
homecourt domination by 
edging the Chicago Bulls 108­
104 Thursday night in the 
opener of their NBA playoff se­
ries. 
Trailing 95-81 with 7:37 left, the Bulls scored the next seven points to kick off a 19-5 run that tied the game 100-100 on Mi­chael Jordan's two foul shots with 2: 10 to play. 
Jazz 99, Warriors 85 
Karl Malone and Thurl Bailey each scored 20 points as the Utah Jazz held off a late charge by the Golden State Warriors for a 99-85 victory in the opening game of their playoff series. 
Lakers 128, Nuggets 95 
James Worthy scored 28 points and Earvin "Magic" Johnson threw in a spectacular 80-foot basket at the halftime buzzer as the Los Angeles Lakers mauled the Denver Nuggets 128-95 in their playoff 
opener. 


--------------~-----------­

-.. JU5 
f 
The Observer 


Wo~nen's tennis teain travels to Indiana 
By SHEILA HOROX number-two doubles team with Sports Writer Stephanie Tolstedt. Although the quiet Illig shies 
The Notre Dame women's away from the attention, her tennis team travels to court demeanor is one of a Bloomington, Ind., today to fierce competitor. face two more Big 10 oppo­"I consider myself a perfec­nents, Indiana and Michigan tionist, and I enjoy the competi­State. tiveness of the sport," said Il­
The former will provide the lig. "I think I thrive on the greater challenge to 6-8 Irish, competition. as the Hoosiers are currently ranked in the nation's Top 20. "I realize I've come a long Realistically, the Irish are not way since last year. I'm trying anticipating an upset, but the to come to the net more as op­Irish would at least like to take posed to sitting on the baseline, some matches from IU. and during a match I'm recog­
"Indiana will probably win nizing what l need to do, and the match, but they'll have to then I'm setting out to do it." earn it," said Assistant coach Against IU, Illig is hoping the Steve Simone. "We want to Irish can raise their level of make IU win the points, rather play, but the Irish will have to than us giving them away." maintain that intensity tCl beat 
If the Irish take any matches Michigan State. from the Hoosiers, don't be Earlier this year the Spar­surprised to see sophomore tans handed the Irish one of Natalie Illig's name under the their toughest losses, a 6-3 deci­win column. Illig, who plays at sion. Four of the six singles the number-five singles posi­matches went three sets and tion, has a 9-5 singles record the Irish managed to capture thus far, which is the best on but one. the squad. According to Irish head 
Illig made the team as a coach Michele Gelfman, the walk-on last year, but saw only Irish are much-improved since limited action while playing their previous meeting with doubles. This year, in addition Michigan State, and a win to her number-five singles spot, against them will be concrete Illig comprises half of the proof of that. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
----~--------........ 
Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 12 


The Elite Eight 
:1 We Weren't Ch..,leaderl 
4'23 AN013 4:00 In Hlgh School 
We'll Do Anything lore Quarter 
I19 
4'24 ST1 5:00 Four Rooms Make 1 Wall 13 
4125 ST1 4:00 
~ DoubMI Decker 4'23 ANG14 4:00 0~ Cookie 
Daub.. Decker 
Or.o Cookie 
r21 . 
The Oyster Crew 

' I Icemen, Slider, 9 Mliverlck, GooN 41.ZJ ANGlS 4:00 How About 1 Garne of Hoops? 
Icemen. Slider, Maverick, GooN 
How About a Game ol Hoopa? 21 
4-24 ST2 !5:00 
The ....... 
12 
.V.Z3 ANGUS 4:00 I51111 Hevlng Fun 
Still HIIVIng Fun r21 
Source· Women·s Bookstore Basketball Com1ttee 

Theology at Saint Mary's College Fall 1987 Special Electives 
RLST  335  Thomas Merton  Malits  W:  6:30 p.m.  
RLST  340  Sacraments  Murphy  TT:  1:15 p.m.  
RLST  420  Religious Education  I  Feeley  Tu:  6:30 p.m.  
RLST  445  Evolution of Theology  Egan  TT:  11:00  a.m.  

ND students fulfill first requirement in theology by taking 
RLST 200 and the second requirement by taking RLST 201-299. 
ND students may register for SMC Religious Studies courses at usual ND times for registration at Stepan Center, at ND Registrar's Office, at Theology Department (Rm. 340 O'Shaughnessy), and at Madeleva, Rm. 172 at 4:00-6:00, Monday, April 27 and 4:00-5:00, Wednesday, April 29. 
information, call 284-4535. 
FRIDAY APRIL 24 



9:00 p.m. 
AN TOSTAL DANCE 
at STEPAN 
Sponsored by 

21  HoosW Uwyet'?77  
Hooalet" Llwyt~r 1 ?1 14  4'23 ANG17 4:00 Who Needs High HHIS Anyway?  
~----1 4'24 ST1 8:00  
THm No.5  

Fast Brute Flva 
4'23 ANG13 5:00 21 
5 Olrla In Search
13 
of L.arga Condominiums Kulka, Fran, Olllto 
and 2 OtMr Playara 
4-23 ANG14 5:00 

--1 
4125 ST1 3:00 
l------j 4-24 ST2 8:00 
21 Quixotic Quint Quixotic Quint 
423 ANG15 5:00 
Observer GraphiC · laura Stanton and Pete Gagen 


o; I , I .. , !l') ~I I' ; , , ... '
The Observer 
Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 't3 
Irish baseball tea01 loses, 6-5, to Butler's late surge 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
For six innings Thursday at Jake Kline Field, the Notre Dame baseball team appeared to be breezing toward its fourth consecutive victory. 
But in the final three innings, the Irish fell into the same bad habits that caused them to lose eight straight games earlier, and Butler came from behind to beat a sloppy Notre Dame team, 6-5. 
"I really thought if we could win today, playing a struggling St. Louis team this weekend, we might be able to get some wins together," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. "I told them they had to be ready from the beginning of the game. We have to make some hard and fast decisions in the next week and a half." 
Butler scored first when junior first baseman Jeff Cun­nington, who haunted the Irish throughout the game, blasted a solo home run far past the left­field wall against Irish starter Robert Fitz. It was the only trouble Fitz ran into in his four innings of work. 
Notre Dame made sure the lead did not last long, as a run­scoring single by Mike Moshier and an RBI double by Pat Pesavento put the Irish in front, 2-1, in the second inning. 
Notre Dame scored twice more in the fourth inning and, after another RBI by Butler's Cunnington cut the lead to 4-2, the Irish grabbed another run in the fifth inning to take a 5-2 lead. 
The Irish had several chances to break the game open, but Notre Dame left nine runners on base in the first five innings to keep the game close. 
The Irish would later regret the missed opportunities. 
After Fitz' four innings, Tom Howard came on for the Irish, allowing one run in two innings of relief. In the seventh inning, the Notre Dame pitching did· not fare quite as well. Erik Madsen opened the inning on the mound and, after giving up an RBI single to Cunnington and loading the bases, gave way to John Gleeson. Gleeson retired his first batter for the second out of the inning, but then walked in two runs to tie the score at five. Brian Piotrowicz became the third Irish pitcher of the inning, and got out of the inning, but by then Butler had tied the game. 
Meanwhile, after the Irish had more or less had their way with Butler starter Rick Ghar­rett, they were being puzzled by Bulldog reliever Tim Mas­heck. Masheck · started the sixth, and he did not give u}:> a run in four innings. 
"They weren't overpowering pitchers," said Gallo. "We swung at pitches that weren't good, and we weren't making adjustments.'' 
Cunnington, who had five hits in five at bats and four RBI, dealt the final blow to the Irish in the eighth inning. Following a two-out double by catcher Brad Phelps, c;unnington got the game-winning RBI by driving in Phelps with a double to the centerfield wall. Cun­nington ended the game with a home run, a double and three singles. 
The Irish could not rally in the final two innings, and Piotrowicz suffered the loss after giving up one run in two­and-a-third innings. While Notre Dame Jeft 13 runners on base, Gallo pointed at the team's inability to make plays on defense as a prime reason for the loss. 
"It's a simple game, and we're making it really difficult right now," said Gallo. "We had several opportunities to make double plays and didn't do it. There's no way in the world the game should have gone to the point it did." 
Notre Dame will go on the road this weekend for a three­game series with St. Louis, a team that has suffered more than its share of losses. Even though St. Louis held a 4-31 record going into this week, Gallo stressed that another sloppy game could result in a disappointing weekend. 
"St. Louis is kind of strug­gling, but no matter who we play, we're going to be in for a long day if we don't make the plays," said Gallo. 
•mam 
IAU 
• 
an 
IlK 
IUIO
........ 
!I; (2 miles from campus, I comer of Edison & Grape)

L...--....:...--­
BEER (cases) 
Michelob (24 bot.) ........... $9.89 

~~~~ 
Rhinelander (24 RTN bot.) .... $4.79 Busch (24 cans) .............. $6.99 Miller (24 cans) ............. $7.99 Hamms (24 cans) .............. $5.99 Bud Quarts (12 bot.) ......... $10.99 Special Export (24 bot.) ...... $8.99 
~7~~,0pm City Wide Liouors 
~r~!-~~tpm 3825 North Grape Road, Mishawla 272-2274 
Largest selection of corked wines in area Call us on your SYR partie~ tor price quotes~~ 
~~~-~ W1ne ""'­
~~ ; :r= ,.. Iii 4 pak 
b. ~:r:;::--;c::-t;t'::!

~ t;:--zt_..,._W_.....B Bartles & Jaymes ............. $2.99 ~ MhJHE ~ ~~P=~ockl -New Red) Seagram's Cooler ............. $2.99 


Prices good through April 
Liquor 
1.75 I Silvercrest Gin...$7.99 
1.75 I 
Glenmora Vodka...$7.99 1 I Ancient Age and Cola ... $.99 
1.75 I Castillo Rum...$10.99 1 I Giro Tequila ... $6.99 
11 
Old Thompson (blend) ... $6.99 
1.75 I Old Thompson (blend) ...$9.99 


l~--1--­
BE A PART OF WELCOMING THE CLASS OF 1991 ! Applications for the Freshman Orientation Executive Committee are now
I available in the Student Government Office. 'pplications must be returned 
y 
Thursday, April 30. 






_cs;., 
~ 


J 
I 
i ... 

---~-~-------~~­
The Observer Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 14 
NY wins lOth straight; Astros dutnp Braves 
Associated Press Thursday night and home runs by Devon White, Wally Joyner 
CLEVELAND -Dave Win­and Brian Downing led the Cal­field hit two home runs, includ­ifornia Angels over the Min­ing a three-run shot with two nesota Twins 7-3. out in the ninth inning John Candelaria allowed four Thursday night, as the New hits, struck out six and walked York Yankees extended their one in seven innings, earning winning streak to 10 games his third straight victory of the with a 5-4 victory over the season. Donnie Moore pitched Cleveland Indians. the final two innings for his 
In five career at-bats against third save, allowing one hit. Cleveland starter Greg Swin­Candelaria also beat Twins dell, 1-3, Winfield is 3-for-5 with starter Frank Viola 1-0 last three home runs. The other week, with Moore getting the 
homer came in the Yankees' save. home opener this season. Astros 5, Braves 3 
The Yankees now are 13-3 and just one game behind Mil­HOUSTON -Kevin Bass had waukee in the AL East. three hits and drove in three 
Swindell struck out six and runs as the Houston Astros won limited the Yankees to two runs their ninth straight home on three hits through the first game, beating the Atlanta eight innings. But he walked Braves 5-3 Thursday night to 
Rickey Henderson with one out sweep a three-game series. homer of the year with one out single to center with men on two runs apiece and Danny Cox
in the ninth, and, after Hender­Rookie Dave Meads, 1-0, got off San Diego starter Andy second and third. The second pitched his first complete game son stole second, walked Don the win in relief, striking out Hawkins, 0-2, giving the Reds run scored when Phillies' cen­of the season as the St. LouisMattingly before Winfield lined the only batter he faced. Dave a split of the four-game series. ter fielder Milt Thompson mis­Cardinals defeated the Chicago 
the game-winning homer to Smith recorded his fifth save, Tom Browning, 2-2, allowed handled the ball. Cubs 5-2 Thursday.
left. pitching 1 1-3 innings of score­seven hits in 7 2-3 innings to Randy St. Claire, 1-0, pitched The victory pulled St. LouisDennis Rasmussen, 2-0, less relief. Rick Mahler, 2-1, beat the Padres for the second 1 1-3 innings of relief to get his into a first-place tie with thethrew a six-hitter for eight in­time this season. He struck out first victory of the year for idle New York Mets in the Na­
was the loser, going 6 1-3 in­

nings. But Brook Jacoby and three and walked none. Montreal. Andy McGaffigan tional League East. Chicago
nings and giVing up four runs

Carmen Castillo hit consecu­pitched the ninth inning to pick had won the first two games of
on eight bits. 

tive homers with two outs in Expos 6, Phillies 5 up the save. the three-game series. 
Reds 3, Padres 2

the ninth, driving Rasmussen Mike Jackson, 0~1 took the Cox, 3-0, scattered 11 hits from the game. SAN DIEGO -Dave Parker, MONTREAL -Vance Law hit loss for Philadelphia. with no strikeouts and no 
Dave Righetti got Rick who had struck out in his pre­his third homer of the season The Phillies scored five runs walks. Dempsey to pop out for his vious three at-bats, hit a solo and Reid Nichols had three hits off Expos' starter Floyd Rookie right-hander Gregsixth save. homer in the eighth inning to as the Montreal Expos rallied Youmans, who lasted 2 2-3 in­Maddux, 0-2, gave up all five
Angels 7, Twins 3 break a 2-2 tie and lift the Cin­to beat the Philadelphia nings. St. Louis runs during his six in­cinnati Reds to a 3-2 win over Phillies 6-5 Thursday. nings of work.
Cardinals 5, Cubs 2 
MINNEAPOLIS -Darrell the San Diego Padres Montreal trailed 5-4 entering Lindeman's two-run single in 
Miller's single in the sixth in­Thursday. the seventh but took the ST. LOUIS -Rookie Jim Lin­the first put the Cardinals nine: drove in the winning run Parker connected for his fifth lead when lined a deman and Jack Clark drove in 
I 
I 
I 
~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



']I['~.cll4tll~--------------------------------------------------------•F•rid•a•y•,A•p•r•il•24•,•1•98•7•--pa•g•e..
15 

Bloom County 
MfeN I Wllf l/17'l£, flfY 
MtJTHe? MJ(J{.£l -mt. /tie 5Tt¥?£5 liT Nl7T7M£... WONile/?FIIl 
STlJK!eS Of MIIG!CIIL K!N&f?CMS. fV!L KINGS IIN/l 8£111/T!fi/L /{e'ROfN£5 •. 
t> \ 
Beer Nuts 
1

CH fiJI!11-/0Pf. H[SI1USWLAR .
. 
Gary LarsonBerke Breat.hPrl Far Side 


ONe& f/fON A TlM~, 1H~R~ WIIS II 7V EVIINGC"t.!ST, 
SOMe" /li?V&r£/l W/1.1 W!Nf 1/Nflll HOT SH~ CHfJI?CH !Jfiii/17FVl _7 
S~CKU!Ifit-I 
''<! ~ 
Mark Williams 

... Of/, /1150/?RY, BUT I l!Cflir f/AVE I NEAN BILL/ SO... UH.... . . 
0!1! Ull .. Hi! YOU NUST BE BLAC .... 
ANY ·con 45's: WXJLD ·sup" 
... 
WANTA BEER? 

5£ 0./(. ? RACIAL ITHf.G1tf'[S SUR£. TJ.IANk5. 
/ ~U AUVl AN/:' >I[LL 
A1 NOTR[ /W1[. 0 



The Daily Crossword 


Campus 
FRIDAY 
10 · 11:30 a.m.: Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies Panel Discussions Panel I, Theme: In Seach of Peace: A Soviet -American Diologue, "How Can We Be Secure From Attack?", Partici­pants include nine retired Soviet military officers and retired U.S. military officers Rear Adm. Eugene Carroll, Major Gen. John Kidd, and Brig. Gen. James Terry CCE Auditorium, Tickets for admission are available to faculty, call 6970 for in­formation 
2 ·3:30p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Panel Discussion, Panel II, "Can We Negotiate Peace?" with retired Soviet military officers and Amb. Gerard Smith, former SALT I negotiator; Amb. Ralph Earle II, former SALT II negotiator and former Director of U.S. Arms control and Disarmament Agency; and David Aaron, former deputy director of the Na­tional Security Council, CCE Auditorium 
3 p.m.: ND Tennis Quadrangular with 
Butler University, DePaul, Malone Col­
lege (Ohio), and ND, Courtney Courts 
3:30 p.m.: Philosophy Lecture, "Medieval Aristotelianism and the Case Against Secondary Causation," by Prof. Fred Freddoso, ND, Library Lounge 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Dept. Seminar, "Hydro­Thermo Dynamics of Superfluid Helium II, Part I," by Prof. Wladek Fiszdon, Uni­versity of Warsaw and Visiting Freimann Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:30 · 6 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Panel Discussion, Panel III, "What Hope Is There for Peace?" with nine retired Soviet military officers and selected Notre Dame students, CCE auditorium 
4:40p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "Approaches to the Synthesis of Ionophore Antibiotics," by Prof. David Evans, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:30 p.m.: College of Science Lecture Series, "Theory of Value Distributions," by Prof. Y.T. Siu, Second floor of the Com­puting Center and Mathematics Building 
7:30 and 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Series, "Marianne and Julianne," 1981, color, 106 minutes, directed by Mar­garethe von Trotta, Germany, Annenberg Auditorium 
SATURDAY 

8 a.m. · 3 p.m.: Medical College Admis­sions Test, Engineering Auditorium 1 p.m.: Varsity Softball, SMC vs. Earlham College, SMC Softball Field 
1:30 p.m.: Lacrosse, ND vs. Ohio, Wes­leyan, Alumni Field 
2:30p.m.: Graduate Piano Recital by Greg Jones, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, for more informa­tion call Eric Kuehner 239-6201 
SUNDAY 

12 p.m..: Tennis, ND vs. Illinois State, Courtney Courts 
1:30 p.m.: Lacrosse, ND vs. Wittenburg, Alumni Field 
2-4 p.m.: Opening of the Annual Student Exhibition and Reception for the Artists, Snite Museum of Art 
3 p.m.: SMC Music Department Graduate Artists Recital Series, Debriana Duo, piano, Little Theatre 
4 p.m.: Department of Music concert, Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra Spring Concert, Annenberg Auditorium, Tickets required, call 239-6201 
8 p.m.: SMC Department of Music Con­cert, The Wind Ensemble, Little Theatre 
8 p.m.: Graduate Organ Recital by Lynn 
Trapp, Sacred Heart Church 
ACROSS 1 Home of a silkworm 
6 Croat's 

neighbor 10 Elide 14 "He might have 
-Roosian" 
(G&S) 15 Drinking cry 16 Pleasant 11 Historic 
Pa. creek 19 Arrow poison 20 Table scrap 21 Knievel 22 Brawl 24 More savory 26 Strumming 
instruments 29 Time periods: 

abbr. 30 Weaver's frame 32 Gums 33 Where Pago 
Pago Is 36 Moves at full speed 38 To -(unan· 
imously) 39 Brazilian port 40 Pod contents 41 Mixer 43 One of the 

Cottontails 44 -Wednesday 45 -Infra 
(see below) 46 Saloon 47 Like certain 

cocktails 49 Pope of yore 53 Flavor 54 Fires 55 Clear 56 -in (intrude) 58 Adhesive 61 Tropical fish 62 Ubangl feeder 63 Dine at home 64 Like claret 65 Brandy fruit 66 Exhausted 
DOWN 1 Monastery man 2 Sawlike part 

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/24/87All Rights Reserved 
3 Chairs 4 Dancer Miller 5 Islands 
off Afr. 6 Water conduit 7 Iniquity 8 Actor Howard 9 Caricaturist 
Max 10 Gimlet item 11 Kentucky Derby 
favorite 12 Cooler cooler 13 Pipe joint 18-Saint 
Laurent 23 Metrical foot 25 Sandal strap 
4/24/17

27 Water jugs 28 Impudent 39 Introduces 51-the bud 30 Fr. city 42 Tied 52 Name tag for 
31 Curved arch 43 Fens short 
33 Long tales 46 Courtroom seat 54 SoH drink 34 Mennonite 48 Gymnast 56 Arc 35 NY borough Johnson 
57 News agency 36 Beer feature 49 Alma-59 Passing grade 37 Nautical word 50 Incensed 60 Lager lever 


----------------------~-------


Sgorts 
Friday, April 24, 1987 -page 16 


Won1en's Bookstore slices field to eight 
By ANNE GALLAGHER Sports Writer 
While An Tostal activities got underway Thursday, basket­balls were bouncing on the out­door courts of the Angela Ath­letic Facility at Saint Mary's campus. The contests resulted in the selection of the elite eight 
Women's 

... 

Bookstore Basketball 


teams which will for the championship this weekend. 
"The tournament looks well balanced," -said chairwoman Barbara Tull. 
There were strong perfor­mances by many contenders but only the favored teams came out on top. The closest contest pitted We Weren't Cheerleaders In High School against We'd Do Anything For A Quarter. The Cheerleaders squeaked by the Quarters, 21­19. 
Anne Gallagher has details at right. In other action, The Oyster Crew was frozen solid in its en­deavor against the Icemen. The Crew was held to nine


Kilcullen nanted to full-time job points against the Icemen's 
Special to the Observer 
Matt Kilcullen, a part-time assistant on the Notre Dame basketball staff over the last two seasons, has been named full-time assistant to replace Jim Baron, who recently ac­cepted the head coaching job at St. Francis CPa.) College. 
Jeff Nix, an assistant at Xavier the past two years, will fill Kilcullen's spot on Coach Digger Phelps' staff. 
Kilcullen, 33, joined the Notre Dame staff after serving three years as an assistant at Siena College. A native of New York City, Kilcullen is a graduate of Lehman College. He coached for three years at Castleton (Vt.) State College and one year as an assistant at Delaware Valley (Pa.) Col­lege. 
Nix, 28, comes to Notre Dame after serving on former Irish assistant Pete Gillen's staff at Xavier the past two seasons. 
A native of Portville, N.Y., Nix played two seasons at Canisius College, graduating from tnere in 1980. He was an the upcoming competition despite an almost flawless win. 
"I feel nervous, I hope we'll win, but its going to be tough," said Kelly. 
The Icemen will face Still Having Fun in today's action. 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie continued its winning ways as it looks for a second champion­


ship title. The Cookies crumbled any hopes Four Rooms Make a Wall had of ad­vancing to the finals, defeating them, 21-13. Zanette Bennett led the Cookies with seven points and teammate Lavetta Willis added five. 
The luck of the Irish was not with Erin Go Braugh, which was defeated by Quixotic Quint, 21-5, despite the support of Notre Dame head basketball coach Digger Phelps, who came out to cheer on his daughter Karen. 
The Quints were led by Kathy Brommeland's six points. 
Still Having Fun will con­tinue to do so today since they defeated Heels, 21-12. Hoosier Lawyers beat Who Needs High Heels, 21-12, while Team No. 5 dropped out to the Fast Break Five. Finally, Five Girls in Search of Lare Condominiums only found disappointment against Kukla, Fran and Ollie 
who won, 21-13.  
The remaining  teams  hope  
for  better  weather  this  
weekend,  as  conditions  were  

chilly during yesterday's ac­tion. 
"Pray for sun," said assis­tant chairwoman Anne Laverty, as some exciting play is expected today. 
assistant for three years at St. Francis (Pa.) and was on the staff at Loyola College in Bal­timore for one season. 
Nix is a veteran of the Notre Dame summer basketball camps. 
"Matt is one of the brightest young talents in the coaching profession," said Phelps. "He's been a positive factor in our success the past two seasons. We have a great tradi­tion of our assistants moving on to head their own programs, and I'm confident Matt will join those ranks some day. 


Bookstore writers try 
Jimmy the Greek, you need not Sure it lost Dolan and changed its fret. name, but Rick DiBernardo fills Jim­
Mter Sunday's Bookstore Basket­my's spot more than adequately and ball XVI final is completed and a Party at Chips has what every coach 1987 champion is crowned, I don't loves to see -height, quickness and plan on heading to CBS for a job. I great shooting. Scott Hicks and Com­couldn't work with Brent Musberger pany for 4 Slamma Jamma have anyway -he wears funny hats. But struggled with less-talented teams, 
Brian O'Gara 

Bookstore Basketball XVI 
hopefully my Bookstore predictions and will have to pull off a minor will be better than the Greek's NFL miracle to win this one. picks, or I may never be able to step Tequila White Lightning is another into North Dining Hall again. one of those teams that plays in­
Basketball games are never ab­credibly well together, and Lou solutely predictable and that is what Nanni is everywhere on the court. makes it a great sport. Especially Both teams have had trouble playing down the stretch, some favorite's in poor weather, so rain could be a toes will be stepped on. neutralizing factor that gives Who's 
At any rate, with some reserva­Next a shot. Otherwise, Who's Next tion, here is what will happen over doesn't have to worry about its next the final three days of the Bookstore game -it won't be until next April.Basketball tournament. But the amiable prediction atmo­
Today's first two games will be at sphere ends there, for Mr. Skiko and 5 p.m., featuring Party at Chips vs. I differ on the 6 p.m. games-Leone's 4 Slamma Jamma and Tequila White Stallions vs. New Order and Corpor­Lightning vs. Who's Next...Who ate Raiders vs. Da' Brothers of Man­Cares. We may be no fun, but Pete hood. 
and I agree on these games. The Leone's-New Order matchupParty at Chips is undoubtedly the best team among the Elite Eight. see ORDER, page 10 
chilling defense. The combina­tion of leading Icemen scorers Francine Kelly and Colleen O'Connor dismembered the Oyster Crew defense. 
"There's something wrong with our system," said Crew member Mary Sheridan during the game as the Icemen in­creased its six-point lead to nine. 
The rest of the game followed suit, as Kelly hit a turnaround jumper to give the Icemen a 16-9 lead, and O'Connor added several short jumpers off nice feeds from Kelly. 
Still the Icemen are wary of 


hand at prognosticating 
Mter covering Bookstore Basket­ball XVI for three weeks, it has be­come apparent to me that just about anyone can beat just about anyone on any given day, give or take a few exceptions. 
But in my opinion, one team is about to become the fifth team in 
Pete Skiko 

Bookstore Basketball XVI 
Bookstore history to repeat as cham­p~n. • 
There might be an upset or two along the road to the title, but I don't think anyone is in the class of Party At Chips When We Repeat, last year's Lee's BBQ Roundhouse. We'll get to the title game in a bit. Here are my picks for the quarterfinals, the semis and the final on Serene Sunday. 
Today, Party at Chips will destroy 4 Slamma Jamma. Scott Hicks can carry 4 Slamma Jamma only so long before the house of cards comes crumbling down. Party at Chips will give up no more than 13 points, as their inside game will dominate. 
Tequila White Lightning looked a little sluggish in the round of 16, but I don't see them bowing to Who's Next...Who Cares? in today's matchup. This one might be closer than a lot of people think, as the un­derdogs might fly out to a fast start and Tequila may have some early jitters. Tequila's calm in the clutch will prevail, though, in a tight one. 
Now, my colleague O'Gara gets a 
-·~~--,: 
:~ 

little nutty, though things admittedly get tougher from here on in. I like New Order's tough inside game, but I'm going with the experience and court savvy of AI Martin and Gary Sasse, and another win for Leone's Stallions. Martin is just intense un­der pressure, Sasse can hit from anywhere, and Mike O'Grady will probably play a big factor. Look for a physical contest, with the Stallions prevailing by three or four. 
Ah, my Upset Special. I've watched Corporate ·Raiders' last three games and they've got a one­game-at-a-time attitude that doesn't fool me. This is a solid squad that can adapt to any game conditions. They can run the ball. If they can 
see RAIDERS, page 10 

-







