
-----------------.., 
Warmer
IACCENT: Kiss record review Warmer increasing cloudiness and breezy Monday with highs in the lower 70s. Cloudy Mon­day night with a 40 percent
IVIEWPOINT: Scandal-sheet journalism 
chance of showers. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 30 
-

Flu shots instituted at N.D. 
By CARL PUTNAM New Staff 
Free flu shots will be offered 
by the University Health Ser­
vices to all students, faculty 
and staff for the first time. 
The program, new this year, is engineered by Carol Seager, Director of the Health Center, and Dr. James Moriarty. Flu shots are very important, espe­cially in a campus environment where so many people live in such close contact, according to Dr. James Moriarity, who is instituting the program. 
"Most people have a miscon­ception of influenza," he said. "Influenza is not just diarrhea and vomitting." Rather, it is a respiratory disease that causes headaches, coughs, for a period of two to three weeks, he said. "Influenza is very difficult to treat. Plan on being laid up for a week." 
Moriarity advised all stu­
dents to avail themselves of the 
program. People should get flu 
innoculations annually because 
see FLU, page 3 
about two miles west of Thursday's, was felt 40 miles

Demands to Nicaragua listed 
west of Los Angeles in Ventura County and 100 miles south inCarlos Tunnerman San Diego. It was followed byBernheim, Nicaragua's am­three tremors measuring 3.0 orbassador to the United States, more within four hours.
said his government had no in­Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The White House has compiled a list of demands the Nicaraguan gov­ernment must accept if the Sandinistas want to prevent a request to Congress for more military aid to the Contras, ac­cording to a published report. 
The New York Times, in its Sunday editions, said the list in­cludes several conditions that are not part of the Central American peace agreement signed in Guatemala two months ago. 
One of the conditions calls for 
court officials said. 
UAW may set GM strike deadline 
Michael Root, a carnival 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Negotiators for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union met in subcommittees this weekend, amid speculation that the union will set a strike deadline at the giant automaker on Monday. 
. Unionized workers at GM have been working under a con­tract extension since Sept. 14. Either side may cancel the ex­tension with three days' notice. 
The Detroit Free Press quoted an unidentified union of­ficial as saying that the dead­line had been set Friday after UAW president Owen Bieber and 11 other union negotiators met for about an hour with the GM team. 
G M spokesman Howard Erickson said company negotiators would not discuss the talks until a settlement is reached. 
But Bieber said the negotia­tions at the "big table" Friday centered on how the agreement ratified last week by UAW members at Ford Motor Co. could be tailored to GM. 
The three-year Ford-UAW contract calls for preservation of 104,000 jobs, except in peri­ods of sales slumps; a 3 percent pay boost in the contract's first year and 3 percent lump sum Nicaragua to hold new presidential elections well before those scheduled for 1990, the newspaper quoted an uni­dentified senior White House official as saying. 
Among the other conditions, the Sandinistas must release all of their roughly 2,300 politi­cal prisoners, negotiate a cease-fire with the Contras, give the Contras unconditional amnesty that allows them to run for office, put an end to Cuban and Soviet military aid and evict all Cuban and Soviet military advisers. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1987 
, the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 


Aftershock hits south California 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-A sharp af­tershock from last week's se­vere earthquake jolted South­ern California before dawn Sunday, causing at least one death and dozens of injuries, damaging buildings, knocking out power and sending jittery residents into the streets. 
The quake, centered in sub­urban Rosemead about eight miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles, registered at 5.3 on the Richter scale of ground motion, said Don Kelly of the 
U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. 
At the California Institute of Technology the quake was measured at 5.5, according to a spokesman, Robert Finn. 
"It was pretty wild," said Mark Rosenker, who was on the 18th floor of the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles. "Let me tell you, it does get you up." 
The 3:59 a.m. quake was the , 22nd aftershock registeringWheel of Fortune The Observer/Kerry Harrington more than 3.0 since Thursday's If they play their cards right, Saint Mary's seniors and their fathers quake, which measured 6.1 on will have a great time at Casino Night. The Father-Daughter event the Richter scale and caused was held Saturday at Angela Athletic Center. six deaths and more than $75 
million in damage. Sunday's shock, centered 
worker for the Michiganpayments in the last two years; State fair was bound over for and an extension of a plant­trial in Oakland County Cir­closing moratorium, excluding cuit Court on two counts of two plants the company previ­first-degree murder and oneously announced would be count of first-degree cri­closed. 
minal sexual conduct, said a 43rd District County clerkGM has three times the num­who declined identification. 
ber of employees as Ford, and Conviction on either mur­some analysts have expressed der charge carries a manda­concern about the nation's top tory life prison term without automaker's patterning a job­parole; conviction on the sex security provision after that at charge is punishable by upFord. 
to life imprisonment, offi­However, some of that con­cials said. 
cern softened last week after Root remained held with­the analysts learned that out bond in the Oaklandworkers may be laid off during County Jail pending arraign­production cuts due to slow ment Oct. 14 before Circuitsales. 
tention of meeting the condi­tions. "We have a constitution that 
Worker to be tried 
sets elections," he said. 
in Beauchamp case
Rejection of the conditions, 
senior officials told the Times, means the administration Associated Press would almost certainly ask Congress for $270 million in 
FERNDALE, Mich.-The renewed Contra aid next 
suspect in the slaying of Fa­month, even if the Sandinistas 
ther William Beauchamp's comply with the Guatemala 
elderly parents was ordered plan. 
Friday to be tried on first­degree murder charges, Judge Robert Anderson, a clerk said. 
Root and Nilda Lopez were arrested Sept. 11 at a cabin in rural Mecosta County, five days after Ed­ward and Marion Beau­champ were found strangled in their bed following a break-in at their home in the Detroit suburb of Ferndale. 
Lopez was arrested along with Root on charges of passing bad checks at a grocery store in Morley, also in Mecosta County, several days before the police from several agencies tracked them to the cabin in western Lower Michigan. 
Lopez remained held Friday in the Mecosta Coutny Jail on $50,000 bond pending arraignment Oct. 19 on one bad-check charge and one of forgery. Conviction on either charge is punishable by up to 14 years' imprison­ment, court officials said. 
Power outages occurred in numerous areas, and many residents, some in bathrobes, gathered outside apartments and houses, waiting for more shocks. Others, camped out in a downtown parking lot, said they had been there since Thursday. 
"We are glad we stayed out here " said a man who identi­fied himself only as Hector. ''At least here we feel safe." 
Mildred Robbins, 66, of Ar­cadia, was pronounced dead at 5:14a.m. at Arcadia Methodist Hospital after going into full cardiac arrest, said adminis­trative supervisor Terry Pisenti. Efforts to revive her failed. 
Pisenti said the heart attack 
was attributed to the quake. 
More than 60 other quake­related injuries, mostly cuts from broken glass, bruises from being hit by falling ob­jects and anxiety-related chest pains and breathing problems, were reported at area hospi­tals. 
"All the lights went out. It 
felt like the sky was falling. I 
thought the whole house was 
coming down," said Marta 
Jimenez of suburban Montebel­
lo. 
The J imenezes moved a 
mattress and cushions onto 
their lawn and set up camp, lis­
tening to a portable radio. 
see QUAKE, page 3 

--~----­
page 2 The Observer Monday, October 5, 1987 
In Brief 
. c, 
More than 20,000 visitors have attended the "Life: The Second Decade, 1945-1955,'' exhibit of 200 classic black and white photographs from Life magazine at the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibition was organized and circ­ulated by the International Center of Photography. The exhibition will close Oct. 11 with a reception from 2 to 4 p.m., during which four posters of Marilyn Monroe will 
be given away. -The Observer Of Interest Rock over London features the latest release from Yes, Lloyd Cole and the Commotions, and Squeeze, as well as a Billy Idol live track. This, along with the UK's Rock Top 5, can be heard at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. -The Observer SUB Campus Entertainment Committee will hold a short meeting tonight at 7 in the Montgomery Theatre, first floor Lafortune. Anyone interested in getting involved please attend. -The Observer GreatHungerCiean-Up'880rganizationalMeeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. People in­terested in helping with fundraising, worksites, recruit­ment, and publicity please attend. -The Observer Eating Awareness TraininJ( Session 3: How to deal with the problem? Nancy Sclioeneman will speak at the session on Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. in Room 300, Uni­versity Counseling Center, 3rd floor Student Health Ser­vice. Speaker: Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. -The Observer CROP Walk sign ups will be held this week in dorms and dining halls. The walk, part of a nation wide campaign to feed the poor around the world, will start at 2 p.m. at St. Joseph High School on Oct. 11.-The Observer The One Minute manager, a film presentation given by the CAPBDPMA Club will be shown Tuesday night at 7 in 210 O'Shaughnessey. The film will feature basic managerial skills and techniques to increase productivity of managers and subordinates. -The Observer Urban Plunge registration continues today through Friday, October 9 at 3:00p.m. Registration packets are available at Notre Dame from the center for Social Con­cerns and from Campus Ministry (Badin Hall or Library), and at SMC from the Office of Justice Education (Rm 128 or 159 Madaleva Hall) and Campus Ministry (Regina Hall). For more information, call Dan Keusal at 239-7943. -The Observer The College of Science will sponser a sophomore orientation in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer The Gerontology Honor Society (Sigma Phi Omega) will hold an organizational meeting Monday, Oc­tober 5 at 7:00p.m. in the Memorial Library Lounge. All interested are invited to attend. -The Observer Junior Dogbook Pictures for Saint Mary's students will be held Monday and Tuesday from 5:30-9 p.m. in the Haggar Parlour. Juniors must bring a quote to run next to their picture and $8.00. -The Observer  
We want to know! Ifyou see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor....... Kathy Scarbeck  

De•ign ASBistant ................ Joe Zadrozny Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg Layout Staff....................... Tracy Burke Business Layout ................ Heidi Traxler Typesetters........................ Michael Buc Typists ................................ Jenn Conlon ........................................... Daniel Cahlll ......................................... Karen Vossen News Editor......................... Chris Julka NO Day Editor ................ Beth Cornwell Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh .............................................. Maria Doti Sports Copy Editor ............ Brian O'Gara Photographer.. .... .. .. .. .. .. Jim Carrol Viewpoint Layout.. ............ Heidi Traxler 
~ o..nw (USPS '99 2~) ia published Mouday throuah Friday except d11n111 exam IIIII vacation periods. Tile Ol.rrll' ia published by the students of the Unlvcnlty of Notre Dule IJid Saint Mary's CoiJeac. Subscriptions may be purchu­ed for S40 per year <S2' per ICIIICitcr) by writi1111'11e Ol.rrer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dule,lodiaDa 46'"· 
~ U....• ia a member of~ "-cia... Pn& All reproduction ri&hts are raerved. 

Shut up and listen, I've got something to say 
"Shut up and listen!" 
Sometimes these words seem to be the only 
way to get anyone's attention around here. 
Everyone is so busy abusing, insulting and 
degrading each other through columns, letters 
and personals that discussion seems to be 
nearly a lost art. And the loss Qf this ability to 
communicate hurts the University as a place 
of education. 
Education is the primary goal of this learning institution; we may differ in our opinions about the appropriate process for that education or what it is that should be taught, but for the most part we acknowledge that we are here to learn. 
By education we mean more than just having our heads stuffed full of quadratic equations, Shakespeare and Church teachings. Education is not supposed to be a passive experience. The latin root of the word, "educere," means to lead forth or to draw out. The process of education when understood as a "drawing out " neces­sitates a free interplay of new and different ideas which are to be taken from others, ex­posed to criticism and eventually accepted or rejected. 
Clearly, then, the art of dialogue is essential to Notre Dame's work. Our ability to speak with and, more importantly, listen to each other is the litmus test by which we can judge our suc­cess as"a place'of, lt~arliing. 
In order to learn, we must listen. Yet it seems that more and more of us are unwilling to close our mouths and open our minds. Factionalism is rampant; we talk and associate only with others who share our views and from our snug nest of ideolo~y label everyone else as "them." 
It is ironic, though not surprising, that those factions which are at the extremes on this campus employ the very same attitude and method in dealing with issues like abortion, feminism and homosexuality. The campus "right" (who know that they are right) operate on a level of smugness. Their attitude boils down to, "I know the truth of this issue, and I have nothing more to learn about it. If you can­not see my position then you are a liberal and if you are a liberal you are a fool. I have no time for you or your opinions." The left, not to be outdone, responds, "You are wrong, you are very very wrong. The things which you believe are illusions and if you cannot see this you are obstinate and deserve to be attacked and mocked.'' 
There is no room for either of these attitudes in a community which wishes to foster learning and growth. · . 
If someone really believes that they see com­pellingly wrong in our views and if they wish to see reform, then it is incumbent upon them tp share their vision with us. 

Mike t"J
Naughton 
~ ~·, 1
\. . J 
Accent Editor 
-~ 

JOE WHALEN HAPPY "21" BIRTHDAY 
xxoo 
M, DAD, DAN, TIM, DONNA & DAVE MARK, TERRI, 
MARY JEAN 
Ann Pettifer, a columnist for Common Sense, has a valid point, I think, when she claims that irreverence is necessary for education. Ir­reverence can teach us much, especially when it is self-applied. However, Pettifer fails to see that thin and easily breached line between ir­reverence for sacred cows and disrespect for other's positions. Lately, it seems that the line is regularly crossed with impunity. 
Respect is the necessary first element of any useful discussion. Itmanifests itself in two ways in any dialogue ; the first is in allowing the op­position their opinion --no matter how falla­cious, ill-considered or plain offensive it may seem. We should listen to the other side if for no other reason than this: the more that we understand the opposition the better we under­stand our own beliefs. 
The second form of respect, self-respect, demands an even higher standard for discus­sion. The person who wishes to defend their po.si~ion must have the dignity to say, "Look, this IS my stand. What I have to say is important and even if you disagree with me, and attack me and condemn me my message is valuable. In fact, what I have to say so valuable that I will not stoop to personal attack, I will not resort to polemic and I will not lower myself to your standard of debate. My position does not need to be defended by such poor weapons; it stands on its own merits." 
Thank you for listening. You can talk now. 
Attention all ND and SMC Students 
You are cordially invited to 
YOGI'S YOGURT 
On Wednesday Night, Oct. 7,1987. 

From 10-12 pm All purchases 1 I 2 price 
~ pARTY! v'o9i:~~~~ 
One Little Tasce IS Al/1r Toke:J 
17911 State Rd. 23 (across from Martin's 2 minutes from campus) 

-----------~-~ --­
Monday, October 5, 1987 The Observer 

Frontrunner Bush tours Europe 
Associated Press presidential nomination on believes Bush is helped politi­Oct. 12. cally every time he undertakes 
WASHINGTON Polish Bush insisted throughout a foreign policy assignment be­Solidarity leader Lech W alesa that the trip was an official one, cause it underscores his expe­had just lavishly praised Vice and the federal government rience in the field. President Bush in Warsaw as picked up the cost. In London, a man who "deserves to lead a he uttered a denial that he was Bush's conservative cam­great nation," when Bush was behaving in a political fashion paign rivals may envy the vice asked how it felt to have the while standing a few feet from president the dramatic equivalent of a campaign en­a video camera hired by his videotape of him and W alesa .,-.. dorsement from one of the campaign organization. appearing before thousands of 1\1 world's best known figures. And he and aides expressed cheering Poles at the balcony 
"The question is, how many particular satisfaction at the of a pro-Solidarity church in relatives does he have in diplomatic outcome of his trip Poland. Iowa?" the vice president to Poland, where he met with replied with barely a pause. government leaders, church of­However, they may also 
"That's the only thing I want ficials and leaders of the criticize Bush for several ele­to know." banned Solidarity movement ments of his trip: 
Bush's jocular reference to over a delicately scripted four -'1'he prospective agreement the state that will pick early days. with the Soviet Union to elimi­delegates to next year's Repub­But having pronounced the nate intermediate-range nu­lican National Convention trip a success, Bush said on his clear weapons, which some demonstrated the extent to final day in Europe on Satur­conservatives already are 
which his official nine-day visit day that he expected to receive complaining about. to Europe occurred against a some political benefit. -Bush's delicate mission in backdrop of domestic politics. "If the trip had not been suc­Poland. There, he lent moral 
Bush, who returned home on cessful, if it had been viewed support to outlawed Solidarity Saturday, will meet with Pr~s­as a massive failure... there and Walesa with a series of dra­ident Reagan to report on his would have been some major matic gestures, but agreed to <.:f...-··~,< . ' : 
'·~ • • ·< .,.· I •; if> •" ·~·_... •
trip on Monday. He begins in­political fallout for me," he help the Communist Polish tensive presidential campaign­said. government ameliorate its foreign debt problem without The Observel:lt<erry Harrington
ing on Tuesday. "There's bound to be some Our fathers 
Already the front-runner in winning concrete human rights 
political benefit" the way it Father Tom Stella blesses the wine and bread for the Father­the race, Bush will make a for­turned out, he concluded. concessions from ruling Gen. Daughter Mass at Saint Mary's. The Mass was held Sunday at 9:30 mal declaration of his can­Bush's chief of staff, Craig Wojciech Jaruzelski in ex­a.m. at Church Loretto. didacy for the 1988 Republican Fuller, told reporters he chan e. 


Quake 
continued from page 1 
Many neighbors did the same. 
In suburban Whittier, where 
hundreds of homes were 
damaged and 30 buildings col­
lapsed Thursday, residents 
who had been in overnight shel­
ters were evacuated to a 
lighted baseball field. 
Among the injured was a 91­
year-old Pasadena woman who 
suffered a possible ruptured 
disc in her back when the quake 
knocked her into the bathtub. 

·Flu 
continued from page 1 
the disease changes its "fin­
gerprint" every year. 
The risk of developing com­
plications from the injection 
are extremely low, according 
to Moriarity. He said the shot 
does not have the adverse ef­
fects it did 10-15 years ago and 
is 99 percent effective. "I will 
be first in line to get the shot," 
he said. 
Nevertheless, he conceded certain people should be cau­tious about getting the shot. Pregnant women, people allergic to chicken eggs (the vaccine is grown inside a chicken egg) and people who have a fever or cold should con­sult a doctor before taking the shot, he said. 
Several types of people are more susceptible to influenza than the general population, according to Moriarity. Anyone taking drugs that sup­press the immune system (such as cortozone), afflicted by allergies or asthma, older than sixty or having a history of being immuno-deficiency are at high risk, he said. The shots will be administered on Monday, October 12, and Wed­nesday, October 14 at the Con­course of the Hesburgh Memorial Library between 10 
a.m. and 10 p.m. and on Tues­day, October 13, and Thursday, October 15, in the Father Sorin Lounge in the LaFortune Stu­dent Center between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. People who are not able 
to take the shot at these times can go to the Health Center to receive their free shots at any time. 
page 4 
Monday, October 5, 1987 

rf;.5riVA~ TOPJE~ 5-10 

FIRESIDE CHATS 
12:15 -1:00, MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, IN 
THE ISO LOUNGE ON THE 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
Laidback, lunchtime talks with various members of the faculty who relate their experiences abroad. These are not lectures but rather relaxed open dialogues. 
Free lunch is provided. 
October 5th: Prof. Matta on the Middle East October 6th: Prof. Bellis on Africa October 7th: Prof. Ruccio on Latin America October 8th: Prof. Delgado on Spain October 9th: Prof. Burrell on Israel 
Monday, October 5, 1987 The Observer page 5 
Security Beat 
Friday, October 2 
1:57 p.m. A Grace Hall student re­ported the theft of $60 from his wallet sometime between 8:15p.m. Sunday and 8:00p.m. Wednesday. 
2:04p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his Sony car stereo and speakers from his car in the D6 parking lot. 
4:15p.m. A Badin Hall resident re­ported the theft of her blue bike sometime between Thursday Sep­tember 24 and Tuesday 'September 29 from the Cavanaugh bike rack. Her loss is estimated at $160. 
Saturday, October 3 
11:50 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her Sony Walkman from a stairwell in the South Dining Hall between 8: 00 and 
10:00 a.m. 
12:02 p.m. Two youths were ap­prehended by an unknown citizen for stealing valve stem caps from a rar. 
The suspects were turned over to the South Bend Police Dept. which notified Notre Dame Security of the Incident. 
1:10 p.m. A LaFortune employee reported the theft of her disc camera from the kitchen between noon and 4:00p.m. on Friday. 
2:35p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported hit and run damage to his car sometime between 11:30 a.m. and 2:15p.m. Damage is estimated at $400. 
6:50 p.m. A Physics Dept. em­ployee found a set of keys on Juniper Road at the 82-Library crosswalk and turned them into Notre Dame Security. 
8:58p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his "Bill Rogers" wind breaker jacket and wallet from Stepan Center between 5:00 and 6:45p.m. 
Sunday, October 4 
1:41 a.m. A Sorin Hall R.A. was involved in a physical altercation with four Marquette University stu­dents after asking them to leave the dorm. 
4:45 a.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported that he was assaulted by four bouncers at Tivoli's Nightclub. He was transported to a local hospi­tal for treatment for facial lacera­tions. 
12:35 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the loss of a 14k gold band ring in the JACC during the In­auguration Mass and ceremonies for Fr. Malloy. 
2:00 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of a Seiko Quartz 100 diver's watch and a 14k tri-color ring from his room sometime be­tween2:00p.m. on Saturday and 1:30 
p.m. on Sunday. Loss is estimated at $600. 
2:15p.m. A Purdue University stu­dent reported the theft of her car bat­tery and cables in the D2 parking lot. Loss is valued at $50. 

Crime in decline: down 20 percent since 1981 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Americans were victimized by an esti­mated 34.1 million crimes last year, a decline of three­quarters of a million from 1985 and down more than 7 million from the peak year of 1981, the government reported Sunday. 
The survey of about 100,000 people in 50,000 households by the Bureau of Justice Statistics found that the rate of violent crime dropped 6.3 percent last year compared to 1985 and has fallen 20 percent since 1981. The survey counts crimes whether or not they were reported to police and uses the results to estimate the number of cri­minal incidents nationwide. 
Criminologists say the five· year downward trend is due to the aging of the baby-boom generation, the movement of people born after World War II out of the age group most prone to commit crimes, those from 15 to 24. 
As the children of baby­boomers come of age in in­creasing numbers later this de­cade, crime levels should begin turning upward because of the "sheer number of children en-
Or in any of 60 developing countries in Asia. Africa or Latin America. Your first job after grad­uation should offer you more than just a paycheck. In the Peace Corps you will have the oppor­tunity to broaden your horizons for the future. You will learn a for­eign language ... live in a different culture. You will develop profes­sional skills. handle responsi­bilities and meet challenges far greater than those you might be offered in a starting position in the United States. When you return, you will find that international firms and government agencies value that kind of experience. 
25years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
See our free film Wed.• October 7th at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concem. Register now for interviews Thurs. 8c Fri.• Oct. 15th 8c 16th 1n the Placement Office. 
tering their teen-age years," said Marvin Wolfgang, profes­sor of criminology and law at the University of Pennsylva­nia. 
Last year's figures may rep­resent a bottoming out of the decline, which showed some signs of slowing down in 1986, said Alfred Blumstein, dean of the school of urban and public affairs at Carnegie-Mellon Uni­versity in Pittsburgh. 
In the first three years of the decline which began in 1981, the number of crimes fell by nearly 6 million. 
The number of assaults per 1,000 people fell7.9 percent last year, while there were smaller declines in the rates of rape, theft, burglary and household larceny. 
Haig: Woodward's account accurate 
Associated Press 
HUDSON, N.H. -President Reagan was gravely ill follow­ing the attempt on his life in 1981 and he and the White House misrepresented his con­dition to the public, former Sec­retary of State Alexander Haig says. 
"If you knew the true story, it would make your hair stand on end," Haig said while touring the Liberty Millwork factory on Friday. 
Haig, campaigning in New Hampshire for the Republican presidential nomination, said he agreed with author Bob Woodward's depiction of a White House in chaos and a president who was seriously impaired after being shot in the chest. 
In his new book, "Veil: the Secret Wars of the CIA, 1981­1987," Woodward wrote that White House aides soon dis­covered that the smiling and waving president who left the hospital two weeks after the shooting had been acting for the public. 
The day after leaving the hospital, Woodward said, Reagan collapsed into a chair, spoke in a raspy whisper and had to use oxygen to recover. During the following days, the president was able to work or remain attentive only an hour or so a day, Woodward wrote. 
Sessions to take oath as director of FBI 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -William Sessions, now scheduled to take formal charge of the FBI later this week, said Saturday he felt fine but "a little gray" as he left a hospital where he had been treated for a bleeding ul­cer. 
Sessions originally had been scheduled to take the oath as FBI director at a ceremony last Thursday, but the proceedings had to be postponed when he was admitted into George Washington University Medi­cal Center after becoming ill on an airline flight. 
"I feel fine -a little gray ­but I feel good generally," Ses­sions told reporters as he left the hospital. 
He was accompanied by his wife, Alice, who carried a bou­quet of yellow roses. 
Sessions said his swearing-in ceremony had been res­cheduled for 2:30 p.m. Thursday at the FBI building. 
He praised his doctors and said he intended to follow their advice, which included a spe­cial diet and some medication. 
Sessions was stricken Wed­nesday night aboard an airliner on the way from Dallas to Washington and was taken by FBI officials from National Airport to the hospital. There, doctors discovered a previ­ously undiagnosed small ulcer in the upper portion of the small intestine. 
Sessions had taken aspirin on an empty stomach, became sick and fainted on the flight from Dallas. Doctors said the ulcer flared up when he took the aspirin. 
-~~-----~-­

Monday, October 5, 1987
The Observer
page 6 
Reagan hails trade agreement 
Associated Press implementation of the treaty principle·. We still have to cross and others would be phased out some t's and dot i's. We are con­
WASHINGTON -President over five to 10 years. tinuing to clean up loose ends." Reagan hailed a tentative U.S.­Baker said the tentative The president's statement Canadian trade agreement agreement also eliminates said, "This historic agreement Sunday that would eliminate other trade barriers and will will strengthen both our all tariffs between the two improve trade in agriculture. economies and over time countries as a historic pact ben­He called it a "political signal create thousands of jobs in both eficial to both nation's against protectionism.'' countries. It will serve as an economies. Baker described the negotia­important model for other na­
"Now, in addition to sharing tions, which he said culminate tions seeking to improve their the world's largest undefended a 100-year effort to reach a trading relationships." border, we will share member­trade agreement between the The president said the pact ship in the world's largest free two countries, as "taxing and will remove all Canadian trade area," Reagan said in a at times overwhelming." tariffs; secure improved statement released at the U.S. and Canadian access to Canada's markets for White House. negotiators had settled on the U.S. manufacturing, agricul­
Treasury Secretary James general framework for the pact ture, high technology and fin­Baker and Canadian Finance linking the world's two largest ancial sectors; improve U.S. Minister Michael Wilson said trading partners just before the security by opening access to at a joint news conference they midnight Saturday deadline Canadian energy supplies, and were confident the agreement that had been set for submis­offer new investment opportu­would be approved by the U.S. sion of the agreement to nities. senate and Canada's parlia­Congress. The president telephoned ment. Both described it as a Neither side gave niany Canadian Prime Minister
AP Photo 
Badly shaken "win-win situation," good for details of the agreement at the Brian Mulroney Sunday after­both countries. news conference. noon after returning from his
Art Walker, a resident off Whittier, Calif., contemplates the floor of 
U.S. trade Representative "There is a lot of text," weekend at Camp David, ac­
a temporary shelter In Whittier. Walker, whose house was damaged 
by the earthquakes which convulsed southern California during the Clayton Yeutter said some Baker said. "I would charac­cording to White House spokes­
tariffs would be dropped upon terize it as an agreement in man Marlin Fitzwater. 
past week, says It will be hard to find another to live ln. 
Report accuses State Dept. of illegal propaganda 
posing Nicaragua's leftist San­office's collaboration on the ar­by the White House under a in June 1983 to lobby Congress dinista government for place­ticle apparently were not dis­sweeping request for all docu­for increased economic and
Associated Press 
ment in major media outlets, closed to the newspaper. ments which could have a military aid in support of ad­
WASHINGTON -An office while carefully concealing its The GAO concluded that the bearing on the investigation. ministration policies in Central within the State Department own role in the publicity effort, activities "were misleading as America and to head off "crip­engaged in an illegal, covert according to investigators for to their origin and reasonably pling restrictions" on such aid, "white propaganda" effort to the General Accounting Office, constituted 'propaganda' "It makes me wonder what according to its first chief, po­generate support for the Congress' investigative arm. \Vithin the common under­else is still being hidden from litical appointee Otto J. reich. Reagan administration's standing of that term," and vio­Congress and the American Reich now is U.S. ambassador policies in Central America, lated a legal ban on use of people," said Rep. Dante Fas­to Venezuela. according to congressional in­For example, a March 11, federal money for propaganda cell, D-Fla., chairman of the The office has come under 
vestigators. 1985 opinion column in the Wall not specifically authorized by House Foreign Mfairs Com­previous criticism for its 
Since it was created in 1983, Street Journal on the offensive Congress. mittee. Fascell requested the awarding of contracts to Inter­the department's Office of threat posed by Soviet attack GAO investigation along with national Business Public Diplomacy for Latin helicopters in Nicaragua was In addition, the six-month House Government Operations Communications, a public re­America and the Caribbean at attributed to Rice University GAO investigation turned up Committee Chairman Jack lations firm that worked times arranged news media in­professor John Guilmartin Jr. documents seen by inves­Brooks, D-Texas. closely with fired White House terviews for leaders of GAO said Guilmartin's status tigators as relevant to aide Lt. Col. Oliver North on Nicaragua's Contra rebels and as a paid consultant to the Congress' Iran-Contra probe, The public diplomacy office private efforts to help the Con­generated opinion articles op-pt1blic diplomacy office and the but which were not turned over was set up by the White House tras. 
II COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
Teacher strike expected to end 
I SOPHOMORE ORIENTATION 
Assoociated Press Teachers went on strike Sept. tions would be cut because of 
8, their ninth walkout in 18 the new contract, many of them 
CHICAGO -Teachers consid­years. Classroom teachers with the ered Sunday whether to accept The proposed contract, least seniority. a tentative contract agreement reached Saturday, called for a About 100 people would get that would return them to their 4 percent pay raise this year layoff notices this week, he classrooms, ending a four­and a 4 percent increase the said. week school strike that has next year, with the second-year been the longest in the city's increase depending on addi­"This is the cost of the con­history. tional state funds. The contract tract they (teachers) wanted," 
The Chicago Teachers also called for some reductions he said. "Ask (teachers union Union's House of Delegates in class size. president) Jackie Vaughn what was expected to approve the The Board of Education, she thinks of it. The blood's on two-year pact, sending the sys­which has insisted it had no her hands, not ours." tem's 28,000 teachers and other money for raises, planned to striking employees back to the finance the $43.8 million pack­Burdeen called the threat of classroom Monday, said union age largely through layoffs, in­layoffs "at best speculative," spokesman Chuck Burdeen. cluding teacher layoffs, said saying many of the positions 
If approved by the delegates, board spokesman Robert targeted for layoffs already the contract would be submit­Saig}W. were vacant. ted for a rank-and-file vote over "You're asking if teachers Moreover, he said the union the next few weeks, Burdeen are going to be hurt in this and the board plan to lobby the said. process? You bet," he said Sun­Illinois General Assembly for 
The system's 430,000 stu­day. more state funds for Chicago dents would return Tuesday, He estimated that 1,300 full­schools when the legislatureofficials said. time and 500 part-time posi-meets, he said. 
KKK holds rally, attracts protestors 
Associated Press supporters looked on. Mean­·away, attracted some 600 per­while, about 300 anti-Klan sons who lit candles and said 
EPHRATA, Pa. -Ku Klux demonstrators and spectators prayers. Klansmen dressed in tradi­gathered a few hundred feet tional white garb burned a 15-away, some of them shouting Earlier, five anti-Klan foot cross Saturday night at a "Death to the Klan! " and protesters were arrested after rally in this quiet township, "KKK go home!" brawling with Klansmen, while hundreds of opponents police said. staged counterdemonstrations. About 40 police officers in riot About nine groups, including 
Klan Imperial Wizard James gear stood by as the two the NAACP and the National Farrands of Shelton, Conn., demonstrations were held. An­Conference of Christians and ~l!~b~\!! __25 other Klansme':l other anti-Klan rally in Jews, supported the anti-Klan lit the cross as about 200 Klan Lancaster, about nine miles vigil. 

Viewpoint
Monday, October 5, 1987 page 7 
Press overstepping its boundaries 
P.O. Box Q 
human rights. By the way, what did that Gallup poll say about the Contras? 
Rebecca Simpson LeMans Hall 
Nicaraguan problem needs a deeper look 
Dear Editor: 
I feel the need to express my concern on the views presented by Glenn Fogarty in his September 29 column. Mr. Fogarty has presented a succinct, yet erroneous view of the Nicaraguan problem. I use the term "erroneous" because he has failed to look deep into the nature of the conflict, instead choos­ing to wave the flag of one-sided sta­tistics and hearsay. 
The Sandinista Government of Nicaragua is not perfect, but in the same sense it cannot be cast aside as the "Evil Empire" Mr. Fogarty claims it to be. The majority of his claims against the Sandinistas, such as the scarcity of food and resources, can be traced to the simple fact that the United States is funding an overtly covert war against Nicaragua. This war has put an incredible strain on both the political and the socio-economic status and its people. 
I am not making apologies for the actions of the Sandinistas, only asking that they be viewed in the context bf the Central American conflict. Mr. Fogarty forms his views from the U.S. State Department reports and Gallup Polls of Central Americans. I have formed my views through living in the region and sharing the joy and the pain of the people. These people do not es­pecially care for the Sandinistas, but in the same breath, tell of the pain suf­fered under the U.S. backed dictator­ship they (the Sandinistas) overthrew. The people I speak of are simple people, wanting only room to live in peace. 
Thus the picture is not clear as Mr. Fogarty would like us to believe. The Nicaraguan situation cannot be solved by misconceptions and overpowering rhetoric. We need to approach the pres­ent with an understanding of the past, if any progress is to be made for a bet­ter future. 
Andrew Morrow Sorin Hall 
Quote of the Day 
"If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written upon our heart. The spirit should never grow old." 
Support of Contras lacks rationale 
Dear Editor: 
Excuse me, but the Sandinista Com­munists have not "hoodwinked the whole U.S.liberal spectrum into believ­ing that Nicaragua actually has a sweet and humane government and system." I find it amusing that the whole U.S. conservative spectrum chooses to view the Nicaraguan situation with a one­sided perspective. How convenient it is to ignore the flip side of "reality." Let's take another look. 
Please show me the "tender loving care" with which the Nicaraguan rebels treat the people. Our govern­ment supports their valiant fight for freedom and human rights. Where? The "Freedom Fighters" have been re­ported to kill the unarmed, including medical personnel. These murders are among many savage acts of human degradation. I wish we had such a bla­tant display of human rights in our country. I suppose we're to believe that all reports of Contra atrocities are fab­ricated by the Sandinistas. 
The sad truth is that the U.S. Gov­ernment does not support human rights in Central America. The U.S. Govern­ment, in fact, does not know what it supports. Didn't we help the Sandinis­tas overthrow the Somoza Dictator­ship? The Sandinistas made many promises about how they would repair Nicaragua. As soon as they showed Marxist tendencies, U.S. aid was cut off. And those darn Sandinistas never fulfilled their promises. Enter the Con­tras. Are they anti-Communist? Great, we're in! This time we're sure that we're supporting the "Good Guys". How do we know that they won't turn against us? It doesn't matter, I guess, as long as they're not Communist. Reagan (and everyone else who favors aid to the Contras) knows that they're corrupt, but chooses to overlook that. We'll support anyone who doesn't fol­low Communism (and we'll even claim that they advocate Social Justice.) 
Reagan's propaganda is very effec­tive, but some of us are too intelligent to forget that every issue has two sides. It's a beautiful piece of irony to encour­age violent action in a struggle for 
Garry Trudeau 
We've already heard a lot in these pages about presidential politics in this day and age. So what"is really going on? It used to be that campaigns cen­tered around certain key issues, such as a candidate's stand on domestic spending or his view of the Soviet Union. Or the media examined his vote­getting ability among certain groups and geographic regions. But lately, searching for news about the current presidential contest has been like flip­ping through the latest edition of People magazine. Some recent headlines? Gary Hart has love affair! Donna Rice tells all! Joe Biden plagiarizes Kinnock, Kennedy, et al! Biden cheats on law school paper! Patricia Schroeder won't run, tearfully cites the dread of endless "photo opportunities"! Nowadays, one is more likely to see the members of the media peering into bedrooms, sor­ting through trash, or rifling through grade school records. One wouldn't be surprised to see George Will replaced by Rona Barrett. 
Kevin Smant 
guest column 
Since Democratic candidates so far have borne the brunt of this media mucking, they have done the most com­plaining. Patricia Schroeder wept that she feared too many people would try to protect her from today's new­shounds. Joe Biden was angered --at himself, of course, but also at the press for digging so far into his past and ig­noring his pet issues (er --what were issues, anyway?) Most conspicuous was Gary Hart, who charged that the media, by its delving into candidates' personal lives, discouraged the best people from plunging into our electoral maelstrom. Hart warned that eventu­ally we as a nation must step back and examine what our election process is becoming. 
Ironic, isn't it? Two persons, both on the liberal side of our political spec­trum, have been burned by 1980s-style adversarial, muckraking journalism. Another liberal is at least partly deterred from running by the fear of the same. The irony is that liberals like 
Dooneabury 

Hart and Biden encouraged the media's adversarial role. Both of them, begin­ning their careers outside of the "es­tablishment", cheered on the press when those in power felt the bite of press watchdogs. They hailed the ille­gal acquisition of the Pentagon Papers, since it seemed to strike a blow against the U.S. presence in Vietnam. They en­joyed Woodward and Bernstein's revelations and their enemy Richard Nixon's subsequent downfall. The press was instrumental in providing fodder for gutting the CIA, in nearly talking the 1982 recession into a depression, and in unravelling the Iran-Contra af­fair. The liberals loved it. 
But a funny thing happened. Media cynicism cannot be turned on and off like a faucet. When liberals like Hart and Biden joined the Senate --and thus became a part of the formerly hated "establishment" --they were targets too. The adversarial role for the press, implanted in the Watergate and Viet­nam period, became a double-edged 
sword. The puppies of 1967 have come back to bite their masters in 1987.­Therefore, you'll excuse me if I don't weep along with Gary and Patricia, or share Joe's anger. Their bitter denun­ciations ring a bit hollow. 
This is not to say that Mr. Hart has no point. The fact is that the media has nearly become a fourth branch of gov­ernment. Anyone viewing the hostile at­mosphere of presidential press confer­ences, or the self-righteousness of the Sam Donaldsons of this world in defend­ing their cherished "role" in question­ing governmental officials, can sym­pathize with those on the receiving end. The problem? While the executive, legislative, and judicial branches all exist in a system of checks and balances, who checks and balances the press? 
Make no mistake, a free press is es­sential to our free society. But his scandal-sheet campaign journalism has gone far enough. Use your freedom, gentlemen of the press. But don't abuse it. 
Kevin J. Smant is a graduate student in the department of history. 
James A. Garfield 
1831-1881 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................... ·-········· Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian fJ. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ........................_.... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor .... -................................. Chris Bednarski Advertising Msnager ............ ·-·····Melinda Chapleau News Editor ............................... ·--·············· Jim Alley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chrls Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ....................... ·-······ Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schlndele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Edltor ....... , .. _............... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll space Ia available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. FoundedNovember3,1111 
Accent 
Monday, October 5, 1987 
Soap update: 
Music box triggers gun shot 
}\ II My Children: Erica Andy after seeing Tom with .n.c1utched her stomach Terry. 
after Noelle fired a gun trig· Coming: A date for Lucy. gered by a music box. Guiding Light: Josh woke 

~ Fleeing the island by boat, up from a nightmare about Noelle fought with Goldie, Sonnl to find her alive. who fell overboard. Mark Sonnl was crushed to hear 
I denied a rumor Ross passed of Josh's Involvement with 
~ 
Kiss' latest offers 
I 
that he had AIDS, and Reva. . r proved it with a negative Coming: George begins to 
r blood test. scheme. r Coming: Erica's baby at risk. Knots Landing: Abby and ~ KRIS MURPHY of punk and heavy metal etc.), and a minimum of 
r· 'heavy medal tedium' 
Another World: Vicki slipped Olivia both became suspectsmakes bands like Whltes­
into a coma after surgery.nake and Kiss seem ex­soloing. In short lt'sa Bon 
r accent writer nasty screaming or guitar as the murder investigation 
Adam questioned Donna continued. Gary believed 
T
he press release for the tremely tame in comp<>rason. Jovi song. about the man ·who attacked Olivia did It after watching
f 
new Kiss album Crazy Even if one doesn't com­
her on the dock. Amanda her at Hollister's memorial Nights says that Kiss has pare Crazy Nights to the new 
Later on you get "Good was upset to find Joyce at service. Greg Sumner un­delivered another album of Metaiilca album, It stili 
Girl Gone Bad", a car sex Sam's loft. Scott encouraged covered evidence which the "oversexed, super­sounds lame. This is prob­song just like Bon Jovi AND 
Dawn to sing at Tops. pointed his suspicionscharged music that their ably due mostly to producer Polson. Kiss also tries to 
Coming: VIcki's family keeps towards a greedy Abby. 
fans have been clamoring Ron Nevison, a man who please the more serious 
a vigil. Mack learned distressingfor." Unfortunately for Kiss learned the trade by engi­metal fans with "No, No, No" As The World Turns: Casey news about AI Baker's and its fans, this just isn't neering some of Led Zep­in which they rip off Van and Taylor tried to save private llfe. 
true. pelin's later albums. He then Halen's "Get Up" which was 
Kathy's life after she over­Coming: New evidence ap­resurrected the career of a rip-off of speed metal in 
dosed on alcohol and pills. pears.
Kiss is oversexed in the Heart by bringing in outside general. 
Duncan overpowered Nick. Loving: Alan forced Aprilhackneyed way that most writers and making them Guitarist Bruce Kulick runs 
Meg found a blazer button through a bizarre wedding
metal bands are. That sound like Mr. Mister with a up and down the fret-board where Nick and Duncan had ceremony, but got furious 
means you get a picture of female vocalist. Kiss has as fast as he can, and drum­fought. Margo was miffed to when she pulled away from Paul Stanley revealing his done its own production for mer Eric Carr hits his toms 
see Tom with Taylor. him. Alan chloroformed Aprilbikini briefs on the album the past several years, and 
relentlessly in search of the Coming: Andy rushes to and started a fire meant to cover and lyrics like "You're the decision to bring in elusive Alex Van Halen Kathy. 
kill them both as Ned and 
looking nasty and I'm In too Nevison seems to indicate sound, but that only means Dallas: Bobby was shocked Jim broke Into his house. deep-"You'll be real happy to that Kiss is attempting to that "No, No, No" ends up when he entered Pam's Rick suggested that Cece be losing sleep." reach the same audience sounding like Van Halen. For hospital room. JR enlisted think about a modelingIf stale sexual posing was that has made such hard­
a band like Kiss, once the Casey Denault into an un­career. enough to make a great pop glam groups as Bon­most easily recognizable derhanded scheme. Sue El­Coming: A race to save heavy metal band, Kiss Jovi and Poison some of the 
band in the world, being len took a business trip to April.might still be as big as they most popular bands in 
generic is sad indeed. L.A. with Nicholas. Ray One Life To Live: Kate was were in the mid-70's. Unfor­America. 
brought Bobby to see his stunned when Charles' will 
tunately it's not, and as far In fact "generic" Is the key 
son. Clayton lashed out at acknowledged Geoff as his as the music on Crazy In light of all this, the word to this whole album. 
his doctor for telling Miss son. Kate decided to live Nights being supercharged, songs on Crazy Nights make Generic production, generic 
Ellie about his condition. with Cord. Sandra tried to that's just a lie. Speed-metal perfect sense. The first playing, generic ripped jeans 
Cliff searched for Dandy help Tina deal with prisonbands like Metaliica, Slayer, single is, surprise, "Crazy, and leather and generic after kicking him out. life. Steve told Gabrielle he and Motorhead have Crazy Nights," and it has a lyrics like "Turn on the nighV Coming: Cliff has regrets. loved her. Herb and Judith changed heavy metal from catchy hook, lyrics that I can't waiVcan't wait any 
Days of Our Lives: Patch and split up. Lee decided to sludgy, slow-moving jams to belong in a beer commer­longer" all add up to one 
Kayla were caught overnight throw a coming-out party for mile-a-minute, molar grind­cial, (You are my crow<Yrhis boring album. Boring is one 
In a storm and fought their Mari-Lynn at Holden Towers. ing thrash. This new hybrid is our musioWe love It lo'.ld thing a heavy metal band 
mutual attraction. In Coming: Max asks for a new cal!'t afford to be. This is 
Montreal, Adrienne joyously trial. especially true when Metal­
accepted Justin's marriage Ryan's Hope: Ryan vowed to Ilea and their Ilk are causing 
proposal. Roman followed fight Rick's desire for a 
audiences to completely 
Diana and Kiriakis to divorce. Lizzie decided to 
destroy auditoriums and 
Greece. Eve ha i t.1 secretly move In with Ben. Dee sent 
each other and are increas­
save Kim. Nancy Don to see Ben. Chaz 
ing record sales with every 
Coming: A shock for Jen­and Mark vied for Ryan's af­release. 
nifer. fections. Dynasty: The police sugges­ted that Steven might need Coming: Zena faces a
Even worse, Kiss used to 
psychiatric help. Fallon and hearing.
be an original (if goofy) Jeff had problems due to Santa Barbara: Cruz was at­
band capable of writing her allen experience. Dana tacked In jail, and his fellow
compelling tunes like "Rock hid a medical secret. Sammy inmate Julio was stabbed
and Roll All Night" and "Strutter." There was a Jo accepted a lifestyle which and left to die. Hayley nearly 
rumor this summer that Kiss would let Steven stay In died from a burst appendix. Denver. Jane became jealous of
was going to put its make­up back on and go back to 
Coming: Steven finds under­Celia. Gina sensed that 
spitting blood and fire. It standing. Pamela was In town and Falcon Crest: Nicole Sauget searched for her. Dr. Nikolas
might have been stupid, but at least it was funny. It could and mercenary John Remick told a shocked Mason that 
have rescued them from the caused problems for Angela Elena was Mason's half· dreaded world of heavy and Maggie. Angela's wiles sister. A surprise awaited metal tedium where they worked on Chao·Li. Emma C.C. at a seedy hotel. 
now reside. Skip Crazy believed she was beginning Coming: Wedding plans are Nights, and dig up Love Gun 
a new career. Melissa at­made. or Destroyer instead. tempted to make peace with The Young & The Restless: Lance, who Instead moved Paul got beaten up helpingBill Watterson in with Dina. Dana get even with an old Coming: Dina resents boyfriend. Victor refused to
BKAIJS'E 0\W~.R \)8)1>LE. llKE. 
Lance's hobby. forgive Nikki's deception. 
\D 1'-lP...K\1 l-\OW~.S WIT\-\0\.lT 1-\t:r>-.QING P.,I)~ICE SIDJIC.D General Hospital: Lucy Ashley went away .with 'il) \'rlt. (1-\f>,.Qr._OB<S ~ moved out of Tony's house Steven. Cricket was horrified 
"1\-lE. SCR\±l't but vowed to win him back. to learn that Phillip actually Sean and Tiffany grew closer slept with Nina and threw as they schemed to trap Nina out. As Evan flied for Alan. Lila and Alan con­divorce, Faren remembered vinced Edward to put up his her wedding day as Michelle. old enemy, Herbert Quarter· Coming: Faren confesses to maine. Felicia and Scorpio Andy. helped each other deal with loneliness. Simon went to 1987, 

Business
Monday, October 5, 1987 page 9 
How to find the broker who fits your needs 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN 
Buslaess Writer 
This is the second in a series of investment tips for Notre Dame students. 
The first part of this series discussed the investment op­portunities available to the small investor in the stock mar­ket. 
This part of the series will focus on the differences of brokerage companies, and how these differences influence a new investor's choice of brokers. 
If a potential investor has funds that are ready to be in­vested, the first step is to decide with whom to place the funds. 
One of the most common ways to enter the stock market is to employ the services of a stockbroker. 
The first decision an investor faces is one of choosing either a full-service broker or a dis­count broker. A new investor must examine the advantages and disadvantages of each. 
A full-service broker is employed by a firm such as 
E.F. Hutton or Thompson McKinnon. These firms are full-service because they offer a wide range of investment ser­vices. 
An investor with money will have no trouble meeting with a broker. As a new investor, you will want to find somebody trustworthy and somebody who will work with you to meet your investment objectives. 
Many new investors will be referred to a stockbroker by a friend. This is usually a wise move since this will provide the novice with the confidence to proceed. 
After deciding on what type of investments to pursue the in­vestor should expect oc­casional contact from the bro­ker, as necessary, to keep informed of the investment. 
An investor should feel free to contact the broker and in­form him or her of any changes in financial position or invest­ment objectives. 
Wall St. 
at 
NO Ave. 

An investor pays approxi­mately three percent commis­sion on the standard stock transaction. Any investor, however, can use the resources of a full-service brokerage regardless of experience. 
These resources include the research reports that assist brokers in making recommen­dations on bonds and mutual funds, as well as stocks. 
Other services provided by full-service firms include infor­mation and opportunities to in­vest in limited partnerships, Individual Retirement Ac­counts (IRA) and insurance. 
The chief competitors of full­service brokerage firms are discount houses. 
These firms, such as Schwab and Quick & Reilly, charge less commission than their counter­parts. The savings amount to between thirty and fifty per­cent in many cases. 
Discount brokerage firms advertise daily in The Wall Street Journal and in the busi­ness section of local newspapers. 
Many banks, in addition, now offer a discount brokerage ser­vice. 
With a discount firm, an in­vestor calls and transacts busi­ness with a registered broker. This broker is not the investor's personal broker, and in most cases the investor will not speak with the same broker. 
The investor will not receive any investment advice or recommendations from a dis­count broker, thus the lower commission costs. 
Different discounters offer some of the services provided by a full-service firm. An in­vestor must therefore "shop around" in order to see what is available. 
Using a discount broker is a very economical way to invest if one is sure of his own deci­sions. Discounters are also good for one-time sales. 
One may want to liquidate stock received as a gift, for ex­ample and this would be the least expensive process. 
Some investors will use both types of brokers to handle their business. However, the deci­sion is up to you, the investor. Ifservices provided by the full­service firm outweigh the savings of the discounter, then full service is the way to go. 
We will talk about the differ­ent type of stock investments in the next installment. 
Wall Street continues climb 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The stock mar­ket inched ahead Friday, recovering from some early selling as interest rates showed signs of steadying. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 1.79 to 2,640.99, 
finishing the week with  a net  
gain of 70.82 points.  
Volume  on  the  New  York  

Stock Exchange came to 189.Q7 million shares, against 193.20 million in the previous session. 
Analysts said many traders had been impressed by the market's forceful rise Thursday, which seemed to sig­nal an end to the setback it suf­fered in late August and most of September. 
The advance paused Friday morning as interest rates rose in the bond market. But by midafternoon rates on long­term Treasury securities turned downward. 
Meanwhile, investors also were faced with signs of con­tinuing strength in the eco­nomy. The Labor Department reported that the civilian un­employment rate dropped to 
5.9 
percent in September from 

6.0 
percent the month before. 


The data showed an increase of 132,000 in nonfarm payroll employment, compared with a revised gain of 152,000 in Au­gust. 
Energy stocks were mostly higher as oil prices rose, spurred by talk in Iran of in­creasing tensions between that nation and the United States. Amoco gained 1 to 84; Atlantic Richfield 1 to 96; Occidental 
sidered by Congress this year,'' said Jontz. 
A conference committee is currently considering trade measures passed by the House in April and the Senate in July. 
Jontz wants the eventual product to include House proposals requiring U.S. trade representatives to negotiate with nations that have barriers or tariffs to block or impede the flow of American products. 
Petroleum 1 to 35; Chevron to 55; and Texaco to 41. Alexander's Inc. jumped 4 to 
49. Donald Trump, New York real estate developer and financier, asked that govern­ment regulators give him clearance him to buy as many shares of the stock as he might want. 
Earlier in the week, Trump began talks with Interstate Properties of New Jersey about a possible joint acquisition of Alexander's, an operator of de­
Protectionism growing in D.C. 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -Trade legislation under review by a House-Senate conference com­mittee could reduce the na­tion's trade deficit by breaking down barriers other nation's have erected to block U.S. im­ports, Rep. Jim Jontz, D-Ind., said Friday. "I think this is probably the most important legislation af­fecting our economy to be con-
Steel rebounding 
u The U.S. steel industry is turning around, and no company better exemplifies this than Northwestern Stc'll and Wire Co. Located west of Chicago, Northwestern has seen sales in­crease from $170 million to $400 million in the last 5 years. How do they compete? They work strictly from industry scrap metal, avoiding the more expensive ore processing. After three years of losses totaling over $100 million dollars, last year they had a $6 million profit followed by this year's profit of $6 million. The U.S. is back. 
u 'fhe Business of Politics. Many will agree that there is no frontrunner in the Democratic race for President. Many will also admit that they do not know what distinguishes one candidate from another. The winner may be the most suc­cessful fundraiser. 
Federal law states that for any given election an individual may not donate more than $1,000 to a candidate. Professional fundraisers will phone businesspeople for a $1,000 donation and then try to use the businesspeople's connections to find other $1,000 donors. The candidates with the most money will have the best chance of winning early primaries and caucuses, especially "Super Tuesday." 
Why do people donate to campaigns? Some people are enthusiastic about a certain candidate, while others will donate and arrange for other donations to make business connections. Large donators expect possible intangible returns. As far as the 1988 presidential race goes, the Democrats will field a few financially sound candidates, even if nobody knows what they stand for. 

Wholihan and Murray 
Business Briefs 

u The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, more com­monly known as the FDIC, is not enjoying a banner year even though economic indicators are rising. Last week, the FDIC announced that it expects to deal with 200 bank failures in the United States in 1987. With three failures in Houston last week, the national total so far this year is 141. Is your bank next? It might be if it is in Texas, where a troubled economy and a poor real estate market have contributed to a nation-leading 42 failures. 
u Happy Whatever! Greeting cards made the headlines this week. The number two greeting card company, American Greetings, recently announced that second quarter profits were off 82 percent from second quarter 1986. American Greetings, as a result, has adopted a competitive pricing strategy of lowering their prices to obtain more of the market. The company now controls about 35 percent of the market, trailing Hallmark by 5 percent. American Greetings hopes to end this pricing strategy if the retail sector of the economy improves. Greeting card retailers are expecting an improve­ment by Christmas. Retailers especially look forward to growing card sales because retailers usually enjoy a 100 percent markup on each card sold. 
u The Last Word. Ralph Waldo Emerson, as quoted in Forbes: "We are shut up in schools, and colleges, and recitaion-rooms, forteen or fifteen years, and come out at last with a bag of wind, a memory of words, and do not know anything.'' 
partment stores in the New '--------------------------l 
York City area. 
Advancing issues outnum­bered declines by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally on the NYSE, with 817 up, 706 down and 465 unchanged. The ex­change's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .46 to 183.43. 
He also supports a proposal that would allow the United States, if the negotiations fail, to impose quotas or tariffs on products from countries that keep their restrictive trade policies. 
The threat of sanctions could be a potent negotiating tool to get countries to change their policies, making imposition of the sanctions unlikely, Jontz said. 
Top 5 Domino's Toppings 
1. Pepperoni 2.Ham 
3. Mushroom 4.Sausage 5.0nion 

----------------~­
page 10 The Observer Monday, October 5, 1987 
n.a..wrHotnt o.me office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent eent., eccepts claaifled .._.Ising from 10 LRL until 4 p.m., Monday ttwuug11 FrtclaJ. 1"he a..wr Saint Mery's office, located on the third floor of Hllgger Collge Cent•. eccepts cla8lfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through FrtclaJ. Deedllne for next-clay claaalfledala3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be piWpllld, ei!Mf In person or by mall. The ch..-ge Ia 10 cents per five ~perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWOAD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
NOTICE: Lllura Stanton tuma 20 today. C.ll hw and wlah har a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
FREE RAFFLE 
Marilyn Monroa Poata,. 
from The Snne Museum exhlbn 
LIFE;The Second Decade 1946-55 Fill out entry lonna in the Muaeum Shop. Drawing will be on Sunday, Oct. 11 2;00 pm 
Resumea/Typing&K:. wortoeookkeeplng 2n·5815 
Typing 
237-1141 or 277-8131 
Diwall Dinner $10. 283-3197. 
LOST/FOUND 
YELLOW UMBRELLA MISSING! Who "bOrrowed" my yellow umbrella at lunch In South Dining Hall Wednesday, Sep­tember 16??7?? PLEASE, PLEASE retum the yellow umbrella to South Dining Hall where you found h, Loat and Found, or 226 Howard. No questions asked. Thank You. LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST 
HELP THURSDAY 
ON 21ST AT BAIDGETS BLACK JEAN 
JACKET DISAPPEARED 
IF CAN HELP PLEASE CAU PETE 3498 
II! IIIII 
LOST lady's CIII8S Ring Light blue stone. "B-Seidel 88" inscribed on inside of band. Please call Barb at £1348 II found. REWARD! 
LOST: WOMEN'S PETITE RING WITH DIAMOND. INITIALS M.K.F. REWARD. REWARD. REWARDIIII CAU 3023 OR 2999 -PLEASE 
LOST: TWO DORM KEYS ON GREEN, PLASTIC TENNIS-RACKET SHAPED SHAPED KEY RING. PLEASE CAU 3881 IF FOUND. THANKSIIIIIII 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COUEGIATE REN­TALS 272·5959 
R'ooM.F'o'R'FieN:r:272:oiio5·c;;;;;·i;i;;;;i. 
away. 
:;·Fioot.i's'iN'-UiFiG'ii.iious·e:·usE..oF: 
KITCHEN, WASHER, CABLE TV. ON BUS ROUTE. $120 MONTHLY. PHONE MIKE 289 6308 
aeo..;ttsii.ui<Fur..ii'oous···Fofl 
NOV. GAME WEEKENDSORADUATION. 1-219­2111·7153. 
WANTED 
'AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WAITE 
YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CAU 272· 
0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK· 
DAYS. 
o~i,~;;.Fi:·w~;;h·~~~~·:i·;;;;;;d·~·;;d~·;;~;;;~ 
lor FALL BREAK. Will share driving and expenses as usual. n you can leave Friday, soon alter 1 pm, please call Joe at x1139. 
;~;··t-t·iit:;;..i..i··~~;;d··~··;;;;~··i~·v:;;~~~~~~ 
(Milwaukee or Madison) on Fri. Oct. 9. Will pay$$$$ -please call PAT at £1201 ~ you can help. Thankslll 
oiieiisus................:i.o&ii:::s;;;;;;;;;, 
yr.round. Europe, S.Amer., Auat,.lla, A•la. All llelda. 1800-2000 mo. Slgh!Helng. FrH Info. Wrlta IJC, PO bx 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92&25. 
t-i'iii:;;·;·t.i;;;;;;·~~·;;;;;;;·usc'i3:.\:~·;~·p;;. 
aible. Call Jennifer at 4619. 
N'iie'o'Fiioii·;:c;·:r.:ie..w:.\st-t·::oeL::;;·m-
AAEA FOR BREAK. CALL FRAN-TASK TO NEGOTIATE AT 2999/3023 
Are you driving to Minneapolis lor Oct break? Do you have room in your car? II so, please call Kathy at 2602 I WILL PAYI 
RiiiE'N£eoeo·:rc;·iOW;::oc:r..Bi:iEAK. 
PlEASE CAU ANHETTE X4428 
FOR SALE 
DATSUN 210, 1980 5SPEED $1200 OR BEST OFFER SKIS: DYNASTAR 190Cm AND MARK 4 160Cm. CALL PIERRE AT 239-5748 OR 289-7905 
7i"iiW'Eiu'c3"S49'5'232'9'iiiO.................. 
SONY DISKS Why pay $2.80 or more? Support the MadMacs Macintosh User's Group and get high-quality, Sony 3.5" diskettes lor only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at 283-2101 or stop by Stanford 138. 
;ilii''";;~: ....H;;;;~~;;· ..·:r~ri;;;·"·(2""'d;. 
hatchback), 4 spd., AMFM Stereo cas­aette with Power Booster-Graphic Equalizer, 75,000 mL, Body VGC, runs very well. MUST SEUIII Asking $800. Call 239-7180 and ask lor Dave between 9 am & 1o pm. H's just that simple! 
TICKETS 
YO! Really need USC GA's BIG TIME lor the folks. Please call Jim at 2474 or 2457. 
TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA· TION --TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US C{) MATT 283-3549 
$$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 
WANT LARGE PROFITS? SELL ME BAMA GA TICKETS!Ii CALL ED £1826 
PITT TIX PLEASEIIIIIIANY NUM­BEA,(nearly)ANY PAICE.CAU STEVE X-3068 $$$I'M DESPERATEIIII 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1 GA FOR USC. DAD IS COMING FROM CALIF. PLEASE CALL $$ JOHN £1709 
I NEED BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS AND USC TICKETS. AS MANY AS YOU CAN SPARE. PLEASE CALL 3257 AND ASK FOR BRIAN. 
NEEDED: U~C GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFEAII CALL 1075 
ALABAMA GA'SII You got thllm, I need 
them BADL VII 'rents coming from MO to 
see game. Can't let Mom down! Call Rob 
1106 
································································ 
NEED 2 'BAMA TIX. x2916 AT NIGHT. 
...............i..;;;;;;d..2.N;;;y··a·A;~............... 
call2084 
............N.iieo'3"c3:.\:s·FoFi'lisc........... 
CALL JOHN AT 2924 
................................................................
.................................................. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR USC CALL SHAWN AT 2235
.......,......................................... 
i"oiisPiiFiArel:¥..~;~d..~;; ..N~;;y ..c3:;.:. 
joe x1631 
.....w:A;:;;:·:ro..sE·e·ac..iiiNS"ciiv?.... 
Than nil me your BC GA'a ao my alata,., coualna, and unclea can ­the Eagleeloaelllllll C.ll Steva at 232­
11818. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX BC T11( 
................................................................ 
USC-USC-USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DADI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272-5417, ASK FOR SL 
N"iieoeo..;1··usc··;:;;;;..;;;;;·i;iii;·i;~!.;;~ 
is coming from NY to see what coli ega is ail abOut-but I can't take an 8 year old to the bars-so let me take him to the game-CALL KATHY 2909 
i'N'iie·r;·:;.:s·t.i:;.:i-i¥·;;·,:r;:-:rix·.o:s··Possi-
BLE CALL DAN 1914 
G.A. TICKETS TO THE B.C. GAMEl 
WILL PAY BIG $$$1 CAU DAN AT £1823 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY OR 2 BAMA GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX x6013 or 272-8813. 
PLEASE, Hll me your extra Navy Ux lor my llttla brother who I cara lor grutly·Todd 3754 
to NYC 1 way ftlght sat, OCT.17 8:30 am 287-4338 
Needed -usc GA'a...lota of theml Call .loa or Dan at 2073 
CALL 4578 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111 I DESPERATELY NEED A NAVY TICKET! HELP! CALL KRIS ·3865. THANKS! 
NEED 4 GAS FOR ALABAMA, NOV. 14. CALL 284-5666 
Mom and Dad really want to see NO crush USC Anyone wHh GAs PLEASE call Kathy at 2602 
NEED B.C. TICKETSIIII 4 GOOD SEATS WILL PAY TOP $$1111111 CALL KELLY·BELLY: 234-71881111 
I NEED AS MANY PITT TIX AS POSSI­BLE CALL DAN 1914 
000 00....00 OO .. xx..OO OXIIO XII XII XXXII 
Sell rna TICKETS or I will nuka Notre Dame Stadium out of axlatenca. 
I'm looking for: 
4 Pitt GA's 4 B.C. GA's 
I have 2 Navy GA'a and Iota of caah. Call Mark at 1538 elthar befora 8:00 am or attar 10:00 IJIYI. Save tha atadlum. 
Relatives coming to town--Need two TIX for ALABAMA game. Call Chris at x2379 as soon as possible. 
................................................................ 
SOUTHERN BOY DESPERATE FOR 2 USC GA'S. PLEASE CALL DAN X3281 
AEL. FROM IRELAND want to see Amer. football. I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.s. Will also pay lor 2 U.S.C & 2 B.C. enher Stud or G.A. !1111 £ 1560 KEVIN 
TWO USC GA'S WANTED WILL PAY$$$ CALL ELLEN 272-0806 
I NEED 2 PITT TIXI CALL CHRIS 301-837-8587. 
STUDENTS HOLDING TROJANS TIX: NEED USC STUD TICKET. ALSO, NEED BAMA STUD TIX. CALL A.J. 
287·1348. 
................................................................ 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA FOR 2 USC. CALL MIKE 2204. 
................................................................ 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-34&-2822 AFTER 5 PM. 
.......................................,........................ 
...BIG BUCKs••• Will Pay $$$lor 4 PITI !I• andtlr 2 or 4 USC GA's. Cali Andy X1236 
PLEASEIII need 1 STUD or GA lor the BAMA game. Cali 4209 
Need GAs lor all home games 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S CALL MARY 284­6058 
Will trade 2 USC tlx lor 2 Bama tix GA's Lisa 284 4426. 
STOP I I NEED STUDENT OR 
********************************* ********************************* 
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama 
ticket. 
Student or GA will do. Call John at 283­
2445. 
********************************* ********************************* 
••-•••••••••n••••••••u•••••••••u••••••u••••••••• 
BOSTON COUEGE GA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, G!MME 
Big, Big cash offered lor BC GA's I'm 
holding your family hostage 
Please call Chris X 1489 
YOU NEED MONEY I NEED 2 BAMA GA'S CALL PETE AT 271·0479 
................................................................ 
NEED 2 NAVY TIXII 283-2916 AT NIGHT. 
NEED 3 NAVY GAS CALL 2782 
................................................................ 
2, 3 OR 4 GA'S WANTED FOR ALA­BAMA GAME--CALL BILL X3366 
i3;~;;;;~;~~b;···~;;d····:;-· ..usc····ii;;k~~­
Thanks. Todd 234-8852. 
N"iieo···24...ric.i<E:rs···:rc;··'AN'v·..ANo 
EVERY HOME GAME WIU PAY BIG $$$ IIIII! CALL TIM: 234-7188 
NEED ALABAMA and NAVY TIX 
x3111 
N'eiio'usc·s:ruoiiN:r'rO<iii·w·~u:··PAv 
$$. CAU BILL £2003 
N"Eer;··:;··C>R-·3..usc··G;:s:c;u:...;:;;,~ 
NETTEX4428 
PERSONALS 
Lllura Stanton turns 20 today. Call her and wlah her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Sha'll never forget 11. 
The Goddess turns 18111 Happy Birthday Lizil 
TIM WEBER WE LOVE YOU I WE LOVE YOU I OONNA AND FIDEY 
KATE -WHO DO YOU WANT FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY: a. DJ b. LE c. Mr. lntanH d. All of tha above Better 
decide by Oct. 10 
KATE -ara you done wt1h your water 'yat?? 
Happy Birthday, Lllurall Tha Big 20. 
KA~~y LUND: 
YOU LOSER 
YOU LOSER 
YOU LOSER 
YOU LOSER WAKE UP AN[I SMEU THE COF· !FEEIll THE BIG "L" 
SHAKING DOWN THE THUNDER WAKING UP THE ECHOES TEARING UP THE TURF ALL THE WAY TO PITI CALL AND REQUEST "1 00 YEARS" WVFI 239-8400 U93 239-3893 WAOA 683-5432 Z104 255-6000 GET SET FOR ANOTHER VICTORY! 
Ok, so il took me a week to sufficiently 
recover from my birthday, but I am now 
ready to thank ali to people who made 
It what ~ was (and who told me HOW ~ 
was.) Thank you Mom, Dad, Drew, and 
Mark lor the beautiful flowers -my room 
was like paradise all weeki And TANK YOU ··all or you ··who made sure that I consumed more alcohol than I thought possible. Thank vou for not keeping track of exactly how much It was. But hey, who said "That's what friends are for"??? My trips to the bars wouldn't have been what they were without all of you. Thanks to everyone lor all the cards and gilts, too. I wish I could tum 21 more often. Love and thanks, 
Lisa
6'8........................................................... 
Don't study too much! Ba social and call me. 
........................................................ 
BACCHUS BACCHUS BACCHUS General meeting at Lewis Hall 7:00 pm tonlghl 
Equaatrlan Club mambera 
Check campus mail lor mailing; member­
ship lee can be paid at the first lesson . 
II you did not receive the mailing call 
Leanne at Kensington 
Aiding Center 291·6630. TODAY! 
Molly, You'ralncradlble. Thenka ao much for coming ao fllr to make this weekend ao apeclal. And, I love you, elwaya, Hugh 
Uncle Sam wants you to call Lloura at 2750 and wlah har a happy birthday. Tha freedom of our country dependa onlt. 
TO THE GIRL AT THE PHONES IN THE LIBRARY LAST WED. NIGHT AT 10: Thanks lor the piece of paper. I loved those striped pants and your cute smile I Hyou get the chance, write something to me in here. You know I'll reply, so do ~soon. I want lo meet you SOON I 
ATTENTION STUDENTS TRAVEL­MORE NEW MONDAY HOURS 830AM­700PM PLEASE CALL 239-7080 OR STOP BY LAFORTUNE LOWER LEVEL 
FLIP,SUDONNA,ALI BABBA,REENA, IF YOU SPILL RAINBOW PUNCH YOU DON'T GET NO GUMBAUII LOVE,K.T.C. 
MOVIE POSTERS Decorate your dorm rooms. Lota of titles 1 alzes. 2n-5441 . 
AATPICK, HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY I WE LOVE YA, ELMO and JAIME 
Only 8 shopping days left until Sandy Cerlmele'a birthday. 
Rach, Hope you make H to your own room after your birthday celebration. Maybe we should ucort you next time. 
Happy 18th! 
Love, 
Tine I G.C. 
Rachel turns 18 today. C.ll and wlah her a happy birthday (4389). 
Kate Boland Ia 18 today -INTENSE! 
KB-1 knew I was destined to hete you from tha moment of conceplionl Happy Birthday Anywaysl 
l.ovll, ES 
Mom and Dad will be MAO and I'll feel BAD if I don't get 5 B.C. tickets, so Please Sell Me your GA's. Cali Sheila at 284­5447. 
R squared, 
The Mad City woman and I had a great time In the Windy Cny due to you ... Thanks a toni 
A squared 
Just exactly what does Sarin's 118Sistant ractor do anyway? I mean, besides make my heart go pitter·pat? 
But Shirley, we should get back to the point at hand. Tim and Marian Taylor deserve one. Thanka lor brunchl 
signed ... us. 
So, the SYA was a bOmb. 
So, I was late Sat. morning. 
So, every other thing reminded 
me of senior formal. 
So, we all so oped til our eyes bulged. 
So, we had a scary moment when we saw Matt's car. So, we never stood up ... so the shot 
never really went down. So, lieU asleep early. So, we didn't see the stars. So, tha MadCHy woman thinks ~·s a bed metch. 
STILL, IT WAS, AND 
CONTINUES TO BE. AWESOME 
***SLAP"*" Thanks lor a classy trip around the world . (In one night no less) Save another bottle lor us --line wine tastes even finer with a great friend like you. 
Tha girl who lovn your Drakbr. 
WAKE UPI 
NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233­2784 
Need tickets to any home game, either 
G.A. or student I will do ANYTHING!III Call 284·4372 any time day or night, es· pecialiy when M.J. is taking a nap.$$$$$ 
HELP! I need GA'S lor USC game. Long 
lost parents first time in S.B. Big money_ 
Call Suzette 233-5396 
BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK -Bus leaves N.D. on Friday, October 16 and returns to N.D. on Friday, October 23 betOfe tha USC game. Cost is approx. $60 round trip. Sign-ups Friday, October 2 and Monday, October 5 from 3:30-5:30 PM in 343 LEWIS HALL. Questions· sCALL KIM x3425. -BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UOUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
I deperately need tickets tickets, either 
G.A. or student to the Bosten College game. I will sacrifice my first bom child!!$$$ Call Ann ay 284-4372. 
India Association of N. D. presents Diwall Celebration--Festival of Lights--Oct. 17. Indian cuisine, slyle show, IMe recital, music, dance performance. FOf inlo. call Nageen 283-3197. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONOON (May-June 17) and ROME (June 12-July 11) cou,..a In Art, Buec, Blo, Hlat, ltal, and Soc INFORMATIONAL MEETING Octobar 12, 7:00 P.M. Carroll Hall at SMC Talk with THchara and Formar Partl­ctpenta Slide Show and FrH Pizza For More Info. C.ll Prof. A.R.Biack, 284-4480 or 272-3728 
One Way Ticket 
Memphis-Cincinatti-Southbend 
lor October 25 
Contact Will 1764 
............................................... 
WASHINGTON D.C CLUB BUS SIG· 
NUPS 
The D.C. Club I' aponaorlng a bus 
home for October bruk. 
~parture: Friday Oct. 18th at 8 P.M. 
from the library circle. 
Arrival: Approx. 8 A.M. on Sat. Oct. 17 
at the Grayhound Bua 
Station on Naw York Ave. In D.C. 
Return: Friday Oct. 23 at 8 P.M. from 
the Grayhound Bus Station. 
We ahould be back at N.D. approx. 12 
hou,.later In tlma for tha U.S. C. game. 
Coat: $75 Roundtrip (Paymant by ND 
Credit Union check or cuh) 
...SIGN-UPs••• Tundey October 6 
from 8-7 P.M. IN THE LOBBY OF 
LAFORTUNE Queetlona call Mike 
McCarthy at 32111. 
CAMPUSVIEW APT FOR RENT female (I moved on-campus) II interested call 271-0952 or 283·3958. 
GREAT HUNGER CLEAN-UP '88 GREAT HUNGER CLEAN-UP '88 Come find out how you can help!! Organiza· tiona! meeting Monday, Oct 5 at 7:00 in the Center lor Social Concerns 
I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON FOR FALl BAEAK.I CAN LEAVE THURSDAY OR FRIDAY.! HAVE A.E.M. TIX FOR SUN­DAY NIGHT,PLEASE CALL PAUL AT X3665WIU SHARE NORMAL EX­PENSES,OF COURSE! 
................................................................ 
LEANNE and SHEILA Thanx for the pizza Be I'Mdyto party llrL.A. I Brllln 
LEWIS WEEKI LEWIS WEEKI LEWIS WEEKI COME AND PLAY, LEWIS IS A O.K. WE HAVEN'T THOUGHT OF THE END TO OUR SONG YET BUT.•. COME AND PLAY ANYWAYIIIIIIIIIII 
................................................................ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANNNEIII I'm a 
day late. I know, you'll get over it Let's 
see how little we can remember abOut 
our birthdays-ostarling Saturday, ending 
next Sunday. Remember, it's not the size . of the gilt but the way it's wrapped that counts; just ask T.J. Luv BUZZ (heart mel) 
Hey Jules (or is HJoules?) 
Thanx lor keeping me warm on the 
Hayride Fri. night. Jules lor president! 
-me 
BOB WELCH ... DO YOU ALWAYS WAITE PERSONALS TO YOURSELF? 
..........cii.Fiis··:.s:ru·r;::·R"iOFioAN'.'......... 
The wheel that does the squeaking Ia the one that gets the grease. I'll bet you think you're groovy now, don't you? Where DID you get THAT nickname??? 
i<iii.~ii ..i.iiii;·;;;~~iii .................................. 
........................ 
Mom and Dad are flying all the way from FORT LAUDERDALE to see the USC game. They already have their plane tick­ets, but now they need 2 GA tickets. Do you need MONEY ? My dad will PAY YOU MORE than anyone else on this page. Do you need a place to stay lor SPRING BREAK or are you interested in a day of yachting along the FORT LAUDERDALE lntracoaslai? II any of these questions seem to lloal your boat, grab your tickets and call TUCKER at 293-1004. 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR Monday evenings. 7:30-9:00, beginning October 5, and lasting seven weeks. Sponsored by the Notra Dame Charta­malic P...yer Group. Prepares people to be prayed with lor the Baptism in the Spirit, and lor an en­trance Into a deeper spiritual life. For mora information, call: 2n·5243 or 239-7851. 
................................................................ 
HEY B. KAUTH, I STILL OWE YOU FOR FREDDY'S REVENGE. I'M A MAN OF MY WOAD. INTERESTED? BRUCE 
................................................................ 
PATTY 0 (PMO) • 
I'M WATCHING YOU, 
YOU LOOK GREAT II 
YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
MR. RIGHT 
................................................................ 
There's no place like home! There's no piece like home! Help! I need a ride home and back from Cola .•O.H., lor Oct break Will help pay gas $. Call KIM £2687 
................................................................ 
LOST: CAR & ROOM KEYS IN SOUTH QUAD BETWEEN THE ROCK AND PANGBOANE. CALL 283·1963, REWARD. 
I'm looking lor a ride to CINCINNATI or OXFORD over filii brHk SS will pey 1$ call 234-7385 John 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LAURA STANTON. WE LOVE YOU. Your Friends In Cavanaugh Hall 
................................................................ 
EARN 12110-1140 IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS. Multi-national markatlng company needa ulee repreeentatlvee Immediately for upcoming Vatican Vacation glvuway at Not.. Dama. Eaay ulee; T-ahlrt featured on MTV. C.ll (812) 333-60611 befora TUESDAY, OCT. 8 at 5 PM. 
VINO, KRISTEN, SNELL, & LAA I MISS YOU GUYS! LOVE VAl CUBI 
THEO MAJORS AND MINORS: OUR MEETING HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED FOR NEXT WEEK. IT WILL BE ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13 AT 7:00PM IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ATTN ALL GIRLS: Today is Patrick Louis Smiths' 19th birthday! Call him today at £1187 and tell him how much you love him. 
................................................................ 
SNOOPY SWITCH-PLATE BUYER IN osco 1G1 WHY were you STARING at my room­mete? 
PLEASE REPLY/I My roommate is curious 
x4425·SMC 
The Goddess tums 18111 Happy Birthday Lizil 
ILFU 
... tee hee. 
o. and Happy ~raary. 

Monday, October 5, 1987 The Observer page 11 --· 

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
Murphy at the near post, and he knocked it under the cros­sbar while falling backwards. 
"We needed that win," said Murphy. "I was just trying to stay down on it and not hit it over the goal." 
McCourt then put the game out of reach at the 108:20 mark when he took a cross from Roemer and beat Wisconsin keeper Bob Kollasch on the right side. 
The Badgers, ranked sixth in the region, fell to 8-4 on the season. 
"The kids are ready for a break," said Grace. "They've had four games in nine days. They need the break to recoup." 

Photle lJJ-4957 
IRISH ITEMS -Among the 212 fans braving the cold and rain were five who won the halftime Notre Dame Credit Union shootout. They were senoir Tom Cramer, juniors Sean McKessy and Dave Rulli, sophomore Dave Devine and Mike Gordon, the older brother of wingback Dan Gordon. 
Friday Night's Game Notre Dame 4, Wisconsin 2, OT 
Wisconsin  0  2  0  
Notre Dame  2  0  2  
Firat Hell  

Notre Dame · Behrje 5 (Morris) 21 :06. Notre Dame • Sternberg t 2 (Morris) 41 :04. 
Second Hell Wisconsin -Rose (Yoo) 52:40. Wisconsin-Rectenwa\ 6 (penalty kick) 74:12. 
Overtime Notre Dame • Murphy 4 (McCourt) 101 :06. Notre Dame -McCourt 8 (Roemer) 1 08:20. 
Shots on Goal Wisconsin 1 5 1 ­
2 
4 
7 
Noire Dame 6 1 5 -12 
saves-Kollasch (Wisconsin) 5, Lyons (Notre Dame) 
2. Corners -Wisconsin 5, Notre Dame 8. Fouls ­Wisconsin 16, Notre Dame 29. Yellow Carda ­Hickey (Wisconsin) 41 :20, McCourt (Notre Dame) 65:00, Froslid (Wisconsin) 89:13, Kucha (Wisconsin) 
91:10. Red Card -Schmid (Notre Dame) 110:00. Referee -Jeff Landis. Linesmen -Galen Graber. Henry Stephan. Allendence-212. 

U.S. 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 

U.S. 
INFORMATION AGENCY 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE offer 
A Foreign Service Career 
Representing the United States abroad as a Foreign Service Officer 
The Initial Step: 
The Annual Foreign Service Written Examination December 5, 1987 
Deadline for receipt of application: 
October 23, 1987 
You may obtain an application from your Campus Place­ment Office or by calling (703) .235-9376 or 235-8295 
Eligibility Requirements: 
To be eligible to take the Foreign Service Written Ex­amination, applicants must be: 
• 
At least 20 years old on the date of the examination; 

• 
C.itizens of the United States 

• 
Available for WORLDWIDE ASSIGNMENT, including 


Washington, D.C. An Equal Opportunity Employer 
College Football 
FSU 
Associated Press 
Bobby Bowden, who likes to 
win as much as any other 
coach, was kicking himself be­
cause he didn't play for a tie. 
Rather than let Derek 
Schmidt attempt an extra­
point kick that would have 
given the fourth-ranked 
Florida State Seminoles a tie 
with third-ranked arch-rival 
Miami, Fla., Bowden decided 
to go for a two-point conversion 
and a possible victory with 42 
seconds to play on Saturday. 
When Danny McManus' con­version pass was knocked down by Miami's Bubba McDowell, the Seminoles were left with a 26-25 loss. 
No. 1 Oklahoma 56, Iowa State 3 
Jamelle Holieway passed for two tou~hdowns and r(!n for an­other and Anthony Stafford scored three times for· the Sooners, 4-0, who led 35-3 at the half. Iowa State became the first team in 10 quarters to score on Oklahoma when Jeff Shudak kicked a 35-yard field goal one second before halftime. 
No. 2 Nebraska 30, South Carolina 21 
Keith Jones rushed for 129 yards and scored two fourth­quarter touchdowns on 3-yard runs for Nebraska. Todd Ellis threw touchdown passes of 35 and 80 yards as South Carolina built a 21-13 lead midway through the third quarter. 
No. 6 Auburn 20, N. Carolina 10 
Jeff Burger threw two touch­down passes in the third quar­ter, including a 2-yarder to Vin-
loses game, gamble 
cent Harris with 1 : 18 remaining, to enable Auburn to overcome North Carolina, which led 10-3 midway of the period. Burger completed 11 of 12 passes for 124 yards in the decisive quarter. 
No. 7 LSU 13, No. 19 Florida 1 0 
David Browndyke kicked a 24-yard field goal with 5:34 remaining to snap a 10-10 tie. Florida had a chance to tie it, but Robert McGinty was wide right on a 37-yard field goal at­tempt with 15 seconds remain­ing. 
No. 9 Ohio State 10, Illinois 6 
Tom Tupa ran five yards for a touchdown and Matt Frantz kicked a 32-yard field goal to give Ohio State a 10-0 lead early in the second quarter. Illinois dominated after that, but managed only Scott Mohr's 11­yard scoring pass to Anthony Williams with 6:22 to play. Il­linois reached the Ohio State 20 in the final minute before run­ning out of downs. 
No. 10 Tennessee 38, California 12 
Freshman Reggie Cobb scored on runs of 14 and one yards and also caught a 25-yard scoring pass for Tennessee. Quarterback Jeff Francis com­pleted 21 of 26 passes for 220 yards. 
No. 11 UCLA 49, Stanford 0 
Gaston Green, who became UCLA's career rushing leader, sprinted 91 yards for a touch­down and set up another on a 54-yard pass play. Green ran for 139 yards, increasing his career total to 3,217 yards and surpassing Freeman McNeil's total of 3,195. 
No. 12 Michigan 49, Wisconsin 0 
Senior tailback Jamie Morris rushed for 182 yards and scored on runs of 35, 13 and 1 yards for Michigan. Morris moved into third place on the Wol­verines' career rushing ·list with 3,269 yards. No. 2 Rob Lytle has 3,317 and Butch Wool­folk finished with 3,861. 
No. 14 Penn State 27, Temple 14 
Blair Thomas ran for 167 yards and two touchdowns as the Nittany Lions, 4-1, beat the Owls for the 13th consecutive time. Thomas surpassed 150 yards rushing for the third con­secutive game, the best Penn State streak since All­American John Cappelletti surpassed 150 yards in four con­secutive games in 1973. 
Texas Tech 27, No. 15 Texas A&M 21 
Tyrone Thurman, Texas Tech's 5-foot-3, 130-pound mighty mite, returned a punt 74 yards for the game's first touchdown for Texas Tech, which staved off the Aggies with two pass interceptions in the final minutes of play. 
In other Top Twenty action, No.13 Arizona State rolled over Texas-El Paso, 35-16, Oregon upset No. 16 Washington, 29-22, No. 17 Alabama beat SW Louisiana, 38-10, Michigan State upended No. 18 Iowa, 19­14, and No. Georgia held off Mississippi, 31-14. 
NFL action off the field too 
Associated Press 
Pickets in Philadelphia closed the gates to the stadium and only 4,074 fans entered through a corridor of mounted police as thousands of union members supporting the NFL strike demonstrated at game sites on Sunday. 
In Detroit, seven people were arrested for disobeying a court order not to interfere with people entering the stadium. 
Supporters demonstrated without arrest in other NFL cities, including Denver, At­lanta, Cincinnati, Washington, Buffalo, New Orleans and Pit­tsburgh. 
In Philadelphia, three dozen trucks, tractor-trailer rigs and vans stopped bumper-to­bumper on the street next to Veterans Stadium 45 minutes before game time, paralyzing traffic. One truck had a sign that said, "Teamsters Don't Like Scabs." 
One car was attacked by pickets and had its windshield smashed and radio antenna ripped off. 
The game, which normally would draw about 60,000 people, was attended by only 4,074. Police said about 1,500 pickets were outside the ders of police directing traffic, stadium. authorities said. 
In Detroit, only 4,919 fans Pickets from several unions showed up for a game that had joined strikers outside the an advance sale of 40,000. At Louisiana Superdome where least seven people were ar­29,745 fans showed up, the 
rested, given citations and smallest crowd in the team's released for disobeying the or-21-year history. 
Sports Briefs 
The Racquetball Club will start league play Tuesday, October 6, and Thursday, October 8. Schedules will be ready Sunday and can be picked up in either room 221 or room 218 Cavanaugh. Call Dave (1425) or Mark 
(1422). -The Observer 
The field hockey team will play at Albion today at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
The SMC soccerteam beat the UniversityofChicago, 3-1. Mollie Meehan scored all three goals. The Belles will play host Kalamazoo College Wednesday, October 7. -The Observer 
The New York Mets announced yesterday that Davey Johnson will relinquish his duties as manager at the end of the 1988 season to become the special assistant to the vice-president for baseball operations. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer ' 

---------------------~­
The Observer Monday, October 5, 1987
~e12
·-­
Golfers weather tough outing 
By AARON GRICE team's performance thus far Univ. A-312(as there was a tie Sports Writer and had said that the possibility at this score, the fifth man's existed for a sweep in a tourn­score was used to break the tie. When it started, Sunday ament in which the Irish are In this case, it was an 81), Glen seemed to be the perfect day usually first or second. Unfor­Oaks College-312(82), Detroit for the Irish Invitational. When tunately, it was not to be. College-312(83), Notre Dame it was over, many felt it As the day progressed, it be­Blue-320(81), Marquette couldn't have been much came clear that the breaks University-320(89), Notre worse. were not with the team this Dame Gold-323(87), Oakland 
The weather was coopera­time. Perhaps the clearest sign Univ. B-323(89), Univ. of tive, if not ideal. The trend of of this was junior Doug Giorgio Detroit A-327, and Univ. of near-freezing temperatures making the turn to the back Detroit B-339. abated and the almost ever­nine with an uncharacteristi­present overcast cleared as the ca,I~y high 48. Ev~n in the face Individual scores for the 11 teams participating in the of adversity, however, the Irish were: Terry Berland-79, tournament prepared for the Irish' No. 1 man didn't give up. Pat Mohan-79, Dick Conelly-82, round. As tee-time ap­When many players would Paul Nolta-83, and Doug proached, the wind picked up have surrendered, the junior Giorgio-89. For the Blue team: out the southwest. The match from Savannah, Ga., fought Mike Lynch-77, Bob Kloski-80, began at noon, with the wind back to fire a 39 on the back D.J. Romano-82, Pat Kusek-82, forcing many of the drives into side. Unfortunately, this and Jim Trautman-82. Coach the next fairway. Things were valiant effort was not enough. O'Sullivan hopes that this ex­looking up, however, as Terry As the sun set, the damage perience help the Irish prepare Berland launched one long and became evident. The winner of for the upcoming Buckeye straight down the middle of the the tourney was the team from Classic at Ohio State Univer­fairway. the University of Dayton. The sity's Scarlet Course this 
The Irish had been on a tear Flyers shot a team total of 303, weekend. In this tourney, the in the fall season, chalking up with No. 3 man, Andy Irish will face the son of PGA­a 25-1 record coming into today. Kaczmarowski, coming in with great Jack Nicklaus, Gary Coach Noel O'Sullivan was a 72. The rest of the field Nicklaus, on a course designed very optomistic about the finished: Olivet-309, Oakland by the Golden Bear himself. 
Tigers clinch American League East on final day 
Associated Press playoffs with a five-game batter. It was the ninth time league career, which began in Cubs 7, Expos 5 losing streak, dropping a 10-1 this season he has fanned 10 or 1967 with the then-Kansas City 
DETROIT -The Detroit decision to the Kansas City more in a game and the 21st in A's, with 1,702 RBI. Jackson MONTREAL -Dave Mar­Tigers took advantage of one Royals on Sunday. his career, both club records. also walked, flied out, and sin-tinez hit a two-run triple and of the great collapses in The Twins, who clinched the gled in his last at-bat in the Rafael Palmeiro and Keith baseball history to win the AL west title last Monday night Orioles 4, Yankees 2 eighth. Moreland added solo homers, American League East title in Texas, will be host to the first leading the Chicago Cubs to a Sunday, beating the Toronto AL playoff game against the NEW YORK -Cal Ripken hit Mets 11 , Cardinals 6 7-5 victory over the Montreal Blue Jays 1-0 behind the six-hit East Division champion at a two-run homer to help Bal­Expos Sunday. pitching of Frank Tanana. home Wednesday night. timore beat the New York ST. LOUIS -Pinch-hitter Lee 
The Blue Jays lost their last In their personal duel for the Yankees 4-2 Sunday, ending Mazzilli hit a two-run single Andre Dawson managed only seven games of the season, in­American League hit champi­one of the worst seasons in the and Tim Teufel added a two­a single in four at-bats as he cluding three in a row in this onship, Kansas City rookie Orioles' history. run double, highlighting a five­fell one short of becoming the season-ending series in Kevin Seitzer and Minnesota's The Orioles, though snapping run ninth inning that powered first major-leaguer since Detroit, squandering a lead Kirby Puckett . each had two a three-game losing streak, the New York Mets to an 11-6 George Foster in 1977 to hit 50 over the Tigers that was three­hits to finish with 207. closed the season at 67-95, their victory Sunday over the St. homers. and-a-half games on Sept. 26. third-worst record in the Louis Cardinals. 
The Tigers, who got a home Red Sox 4, Brewers 0 team's 34 years in Baltimore. Giants 5, Braves 4 run from Larry Herndon in the Gary Carter and Keith Her­clincher, finished the season BOSTON -Roger Clemens White Sox 5, Athletics 2 nandez homered for New York, SAN FRANCISCO -Bob two games ahead of the Blue became the first American helping the defending cham­Brenly led off the lOth inning Jays af!i} avoided a one-game League pitcher to win 20 games CHICAGO Oakland's pion Mets finish second in the with his 18th homer, leading the playoffthat would have been two straight years since Reggie Jackson had two hits in National League East behind division-champion San Fran­held here Monday if the Blue Tommy John in 1979-80, throw­the final game of his 21-year the Cardinals. Darryl Straw­cisco Giants to a 5-4 victory Jays had won. ing a two-hitter as the Boston career, but Ron Hassey hit a berry added a run-scoring Sunday over the Atlanta 
Tanana, 15-10, pitched his Red Sox beat the Milwaukee two-run to help the Chicago single in the ninth to help the Braves. third shutout, walking three Brewers 4-0. White Sox beat the Athletics 5-2 Mets wind up their season se­and striking out nine. Herndon Clemens, finishing with. a 20-9 Sunday. ries against the Cardinals at 9-Brenly's homer off reliever put the Tigers ahead once and record after starting 4-6, al­9. Jim Acker, 4-9, capped a day in for all in this season of struggle lowed a double to Mike Felder Jackson, who ended his The Cardinals used seven which the Giants hit four home with a one-out, solo homer in in the third inning and a double career with 563 home runs, pitchers in their tune-up for the runs for a new team record of the second inning off Toronto's to Dale Sveum in the seventh. doubled in the first inning to NL playoffs, which begin Tues­205..The previous mark of 204 ace, Jimmy Key, 17-8, who al­The 1986 Cy Young Award drive in Jose Canesco and put day night at Busch Stadium was .set in ·1962, when the club lowed only three hits, struck winner with a 24-4 record, Oakland ahead 1-0. Jackson against the San Francisco won its only pennant in San out eight and finished with the struck out 12 and didn't walk a closed out his illustrious major-Giants. Francisco. 

AL era title at 2.76. · All seven of the games the Blue Jays and Tigers played in the final two weeks of the season were decided by one run, and two went extra in­nings, including Saturday's 3-2, 12-inning victory that put the Tigers a game ahead of Toronto. 
Toronto played six of the games without All-Star shortstop Tony Fernandez and catcher Ernie Whitt missed the last three games with two cracked ribs. Fernandez suf­fered a broken elbow on Sept. 24 when he was hit while making a pivot on a double­play attempt. 
The Tigers begin their second American League playoff in four years on Wed­nesday in Minnesota against the Twins, who already had clinched the AL west. The Tigers also won the division, and the World Series, in 1984. 
Royals 10, Twins 1 
KANSAS CITY -The Ameri­can League West champion Minnesota Twins head into the 
FREE 32 oz. SOFTDRINR 

Join us for "1\IIEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N.IRONWOOD DR. FREE DEUVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may 1apire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 

Monday, October 5, 1987 
The Observer page 13 
NO men run well in Invitational 
By TIM SULLIVAN a top-five finish would be tough. country and the 10,000 meter 
Sports Writer His runners, however, ran their run. His time of 24: 18.2 was 
best meet of the season for the seven seconds better than his 
When is finishing third a third place finish. time of a week ago on the same 
cause to be happy? Notre Dame senior Dan Gar­course. 
When your name is Joe Piane rett ran his typical, excellent "Danny ran real well," said 
and your cross-country team is race, but the key ingredient for Piane. "Scherer is a great run­
improving with each succes­the Irish was the performance ner, but Danny made him work 
sive meet. of the fourth and fifth place for it." 
Irish finishers, Pat Kearns and Behind Garrett was sopho­
On Friday at the Burke Rick Mulvey._ more Mike O'Conner (sixth Memorial Golf Course, the place), junior Ron Markezich Notre Dame men's cross­Kearns, a freshman, caught (twenty-fourth), and then country team ran extremely up to Mulvey, a senior at the Kearns and Mulvey (thirty­well -placing third out of an two-mile mark, and the two ran sixth and forty-sixth respec­impressive 16-team field at the together the rest of the way. tively). 
•I
32nd annual Notre Dame Invi­Both runners finished with the According to Mulvey, the 
i
tational. The only teams to beat best times of their careers. team feels they have still better 
the Irish were Michigan (with performances ahead of them. Chet Lemon and the Detroit Tigers have a lot to celebrate after their an impressive total of 64 "My performance wouldn't "Surprised is not the word," 1-0 win over Toronto yesterday, giving the Tigers the American points) and Edinboro (84), the have been possible without Pat said Mulvey of his reaction to League East championship. Major Legue highlights are on page 12. 
defending Division II National Kearns," noted Mulvey. the third-place finish. "we are Champion Notre Dame's point "Coach Piane always stresses definitely not satisfied with total was 109. helping each other out, and it losing. Our ultimate goal is to 
NO women runners 
"I'm really pleased with the worked." As for Garrett -he, go to the Nationals and I think way we ran," said Piane, the too, is consistently improving. we are on that road." Notre Dame coach. "And I On Friday the Notre Dame cap­
show team form 
think we can run even better." tain outlegged the entire field "We may not be the favorite Going into the race, Piane except for John Scherer of Mic­to go (to the Nationals), but I By GREG GUFFEY and two. I think we can beat was naturally hoping to win, higan, who qualified for the think we can surprise a lot of 
Sports Writer them at the end of the year."
but, realistically, he knew that NCAA's last year in both cross-people." 
Junior co-captain Theresa The women's cross country Rice led the harriers with a
• 
team finally achieved someth­time of 18:46.6, good enough for 
Irish fare well 1n Fallon tourney 
ing at the Notre Dame Invita­fourth place. She finished be­tional Friday that has alluded hind Matava, who was third in it in past meets -a good overall the nation last year, Malone'sBy THERESA KELLY play," Bayliss continued. playing seven matches in two 
team effort. Margugrite Skello, the 5000m
Sports Writer "They were a good team last days." 
The Irish finished fifth in the NAIA defending track champ,year, but they've gelled andes­West Virginia's Mancini took inaugural 10-team event by and Hillsdale's Gina Van Larr, The Irish men's tennis team tablished themselves. They on teammate Foley for the A­
hosted the Notre Dame-Tom placing their top five runners the NAIA cross country cham­
won the national hardcourt flight championship. Foley in the top 35. More importantly, pion.
Fallon Invitational over the championship last summer.'' won in three sets, 6-7 (7-2), 6-1, the time gap was only 1:26, 26weekend, and although West Kalbas and Wenger beat 6-1. 
seconds quicker than last week "She's running excellentVirginia dominated the compe­Irish teammates Walsh and In the B singles flight, Notre at the National Catholic Cham­times," Ryan said. "She'stition, first-year Irish coach Sordi (6-2, 6-2), the Purdue duo Dame placed two in the final 
pionships. learning to run with the frontBob Bayliss was pleased with of McCafferty and Gobbel (6-3, four, but both were eliminated "I was pleased," Irish coach runners, and she's runningthe results. 7-6) and won due to a before the championship
In doubles competition, the withdrawal to make it to the match. Dan Ryan said. "The time with national champions." Irish teams netted three of the finals. Paul Daggs beat Purdue's spread was better between first Jenny Ledrick was the four semifinal spots, but even­The singles action was MeMafferty in two tie­and fifth place. We shortened second Irish finisher in 20th tually lost the final to one of the divided into two flights. In the breakers, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-1} that up a lot." place with a clocking of 19:35.4. strongest teams in the country, A-flight, Kalbas led the Irish, after winning his first round Virginia took first place in She was followed by Julia 
West Virginia's Joby Foley and making it to the third round match, 6-4, 6-1 over Cornell's the tourney with 38 points. The Merkel in 26th at 19:53.6, Kath­Cavaliers were paced by Patty leen Lehman in 34th at 20:09.3
Ray Kurey. before losing to WVA's Paul David Schwarz. Daggs lost to Matava who won the meet with and Wendy Murray in 36th spotThe Irish duo of Brian Kalbas Mancini 6-3, 7-5. Kalbas Tom Reilly of Purdue, 7-5, 6-3. 
a time of 17:59.4. Hillsdale was with a time of 20: 12.4.
and Ryan Wenger lost 6-1, 6-1 defeated John Fasullo of Cor­Dan_ Walsh was the other 
to Foley and Kurey in the nell, 6-3, 6-3 and won by second with 70 points, Kent
Irish player in the semis, 
State third at 77, Ball State "We had very strong perfor­
finals, but Bayliss said the withdrawal. beating Terry Lin of Cornell 6­fourth at 105, and Notre Dame mances at one through five"
match was a good one. "Paul lost to a great player", 0,6-1 and Gobbel of Purdue, 7-6 "The first set was closer than said Bayliss. "He played a (8-6), 6-4. WVA's Kurey beat fifth with 117. Ryan said. "The times were the score indicates," he said. smart match, and mixed things Walsh to reach the champion­"Virginia is a very strong slow today because of the rain 
team," Ryan said. "Hillsdale and the wet grass."
"We lost all the games 4-3. If up really well. He just got out­ship game against Reilly. 
is second in the NAIA, and Kent Ryan says the Irish arewe could have won the close gunned in the end. Mancini was Kurey won, completing a State and Ball State are strong beginning tp pick up the slack ones, the score would have in the top ten or 15 on hardcourt sweep for West Virginia. 
Mid-American Conference left when Terry Kibelstis, nor­
been 5-2. last year. It was a tough match. Bayliss said the team is still teams. Ball State beat us be­mally one of the top finishers, "Basically, the West Vir­"Kalbas was our sparkplllg. going through a period of ad­cause they packed better at one went out with a stress fracture. 
ginia guys taught us how to He really was an ironman. justment. 

Irish
GOFROMCO~GE~THEAaMY 
sixteenth-ranked N orthwes­
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAT. 
tern last Wednesday snapped an eight-game winning streak, 
The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the Army 
but the Irish blew by DePaul
ing into professional also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: 
on Thursday, 15-3, 15-3, 16-14 music is-well, break­not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
and Butler on Friday, 15-4, 15­10, 15-1.
ing into professional abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. 
Notre Dame now has nearly
music. So if you're Most important, you can Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. 
a week off before taking on
looking for an oppor­expect a first-rate pro­
Kentucky at home on Fridaytunity to turn your fessional environment 
night. "It'll be nice to have four­
musical talent into from your instructors, 
straight days of practice for
a full-time perform­facilities and fellow 
once," said Lambert. "It was 
ing career, take a musicians. The Army 
a tough week with four-straight good look at the has educational 
games, three on the road, but it's nice to be back at home for 
Army. programs that 
a while."
It's not can help _you all parades . pay for off­and John Philip duty instruc­Sousa. Army tion, and if hands rock, you qual­waltz and boogie ifv, even as well as march, help you and they perform repay hcfore concert au­r diences as well rally-insured 
ARMY BAND.
as spectators. student loans. With an ave If BE ALLYOU CAM BE. 

page 14 The Observer Monday, October 5, 1987 
'Strike Sunday' arrives for NFL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -There was some good football, some mediocre football and enough bad football for a full show of "Football Follies." 
It was Strike Sunday in the NFL, a kaleidescope of picket lines, empty seats, strange plays, unlikely heroes and goats. 
"We've just witnessed a bit of history, I suppose," Bengals Coach Sam Wyche said after his team lost 10-9 to San Diego in a game marked by fumbles on three of the first eight plays. 
In most places, the "crowds," were hardly that, kept away by pickets or the prospect of B-team football. 
And where members of the A-Team showed up, they didn't always fare that well. 
The biggest hero among the picket-line crossers was the Colts' Gary Hogeboom, who tied a 22-year-old team record with five touchdown passes in the 47-6 rout of Buffalo. 
But St. Louis and New En­gland, with veterans back, lost to Washington and Cleveland, which had none. 
Dallas didn't bother to use Danny White, Tony Dorsett or Mike Renfro in its 38-24 win over the New York Jets, one of two previously unbeaten teams done in by the scrubs. Min­nesota, which lost to Green Bay 23-16, was the other. 
"Maybe we had an advan­tage in that not any of our guys came in,'' Washington Coach Joe Gibbs said after his team's 28-21 victory over the Car­dinals, who had eight veterans suited up. "The same group was able to practice together for 10 days." 
Just 4,074 fans showed up in Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium, where 1,500 picketers blocked all but one gate and some egg-throwing and car­smashing was reported. Inside, the new Chicago Bears looked just like the old ones, register­ing 11 sacks in a 35-3 win over the Eagles' replacements. 
There were 4,919 fans in 80,368-seat Pontiac Silverdome to watch the ersatz Tampa Bay Bucs come back from a 17-0 deficit to bat the Detroit Lions 31-27. And just 9,860 were in Buffalo's 80,000-seat Rich Stadium, where the Colts routed the Bills, 47-6. 
Atlanta, Seattle, New En­gland and New Orleans also had their smallest-ever crowds and there were just 27,728 in Washington's RFK Stadium, the first time in 160 games over 22 years that the Redskins didn't sell out. 
Mile High Stadium in Den­ver, which also always sells out, was only half full and the crowd of 38,494 dwindled to a few thousand in the second half as Houston moved out to what became a 40-10 victory over the Broncos. 
Management, predictably, saw a silver lining; the union called it a sham. 
"It's better than being shut down," said Tex Schramm, president of the Dallas Cow­boys and a member of the Man­agement Council's executive committee. 
"After what I saw on TV today, I felt bad my players are on strike," said Gene Upshaw, the executive director of the NFL players Association. "They're being cheated and the 
fans are being cheated." As for the games, a few of the heroes were old, but most were new. 
More often, the heroes were the likes of John Fourcade, Mike Hohensee, Ed Rubbert and Anthony Allen. Plus Vince Evans, an eight-year veteran who hadn't played since the USFL's Chicago team folded in 1985. 
Fourcade has three touch­down passes for New Orleans in a 37-13 win over the Rams in the Superdome, where the all­time low crowd of 29,745 chanted "Stay on Strike." Hohensee, a bartender until two weeks ago, threw his in Chicago's win in Philadelphia. 
Evans completed 10 of his 18 
passes for 248 yards and rushed 
for 63 yards on four carries for 
the Raiders. He threw for two 
touchdowns and scored his 
touchdown on a 4-yard bootleg 
run early in the second quarter. 
Rubbert, a rookie free-agent from Louisville and Allen, a former Atlanta Falcon and USFL player, combined on three touchdown passes in the Redskins' upset of the Car­dinals. Allen, who just arrived in camp Friday, set a Redskins' receiving record with 255 yards, including an 88­yard reception that was the longest for Washington in 12 years. 
There were also signs of in­eptitude, both by veterans and replacements. 
~here were nine turnovers and 26 penalties in Dallas' win over the Jets, in which Kevin Sweeney, cut in preseason, rephwed White and had just six completions, three for touch­downs. 
New England's Tony Collins, a starting running back who returned to camp this week, ran for just 24 yards in 15 carries and fumbled twice in another upset. The Patriots, with five veterans back, lost 20­10 to Cleveland, which had none. 
Ken Lacy, a former USFL player with the Kansas City Chiefs, fumbled twice in first­and-goal situations on the Los Angeles Raiders' 1-yard-line. The Raiders recovered both times. 
Notre 
by Arthur Miller 

the press during these trying times for the entire NFL. Results of yesterday's games are at left.
on 
A.D. 
continued from page 16 
world and factors that govern all that may change over the years ahead. One very signifi­cant difficulties we have is scheduling. We don't have a fixed schedule presented to us every year. At certain times of the season in basketball for in­stance, it's very difficult for us to find games. As we get into February and March great teams that we'd like to play are involved in their own confer­ence schedule or playoffs. 
BUY OBSERVER 
CLASSIFIED~) 
r.-..~~~~._..~..._....-.cx 
I I
Looking for 101 Tickets to NO I USC Game contact iI Mike Kelly (312)565·5959 I'
I 
From 9-5, M·F 
L~~t.-.ct.-.c.._..~~..-..1 
w1th Daniel Daily as Willy Loman directed by Father Arthur Harvey Wed., Oct. 7-Sat., Oct. 10 Sunday, October 11 Washington Hall 
8:10P.M. 3:10P.M. 
$6 Main floor $5 Balcony $4 Students/Senior Citizens (Wed., Thurs., Sun) 
For MasterCard/Visa orders or information: (219) 239-5957 noon-6 P.M. weekdays 
BUS TRANSPORTATION ••CHARTER SERVICE ** 
Reasonable Rates Call 259-9506 anytime 
STUD~~T HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS------.....
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
1 Reg. $8 family haircutters
r-------------------1I 
I ssoFF ANY PERM II 
I MasterCuts
I famiyhaircuttersl 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·3770 

~-----~--­
Monday, October 5, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus, · · . . The Daily Crossword 
' 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
\ 

W6/.l.,ITWA5 NO 577WJ..IN A !JWOf 1(05€5.  .., WANl1ei?IN& ,, MCIINPff/(/N(?,, f,05T IN II CK€"AT/Ve Wlt./J€1?­NeSS W!THOIIT PI/KPO~£, 1?/RCCrtON... OI? eteN A 5CKIPT. I  

"Julian ... you're cheating." 
Movies this Week: 
The Color Purple:Wednesday and Tfiursday 7:00, 10:00 pm 
Engineering Auditorium $2:00 Admission Sponsored by S.U.B. 
Heartbreak Ridge
Friday and Saturday 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
Beernuts 

.... ANO TO WE. TilE CIIICK5 JJ/10 (CJ1[ 
OVEt. FRLH mE OT/1£~ /XJRI'fS, Of' CO<JRSE. I 
Mark Williams 
Wf.IICH I 60ESS 15 SU<T OF A POINTLESS ENP. If YO() THINK A/3a!T IT 


©1987 Tribuna Madia Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Is brave 7 Okla. city 8 Literary 
collection 
9 Sad song 10 Abrogated 11 Smell 12 Highly excited 13 Bank 21 Shade trees 23 Mr. Coward 25 Bible priest 26 Mountain 
range 27 Climbing vine 28 --Azlz (Turk. 
sultan) 29 Like horses 
and Ilona 30 Fla. bird 48 Apathy 58 Land map 31 Because 60 Eastern 67 Cleaning 32 Beer type religion agent 35 Filament 52 Trim 58 Cigar end 38 Orchid 53 Over 59 Actor ­40 Savings 54 "-but the Connery 43 Resound brave ..." 62 "-Llppo 46 Sports group 55 Social group Lippi" 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

. 
12 p.m. -1 p.m. Multicultural Fall Fest Fireside Chat by Prof. Matta on the Middle East, ISO Lounge. 
12 p.m. -1 p.m. Culture on the Quad sponsered by the Spanish Club. 
3 p.m-5 p.m. Computer Minicourse, Excel (Spreadsheet), Room 115 Computing Center, limit 12. To register call Betty at 239-5604. Also Wednesday, October 7. 3 p.m. -5 p.m. Computer Minicourse, Job Control Language, Terminal Labo­ratory, Computing Center, limit 24. To register, call Betty at 239-5604. 
4:30p.m. Chemistry Department Organic Syntheses Inc. Distinguished Lecture, "Sulfoximine, Enzymatic and Noble Metal Routes to Natural Products," by Prof. Carl Johnson, Wayne State University. 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Multicultural Fall Fest Ethnic Entertainment: Mexican Folklore Dancers, Fieldhouse Mall. 
7 p.m. PresentatioiYReception: Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit invites all Finance, Accountancy, and Economics students interested in discovering career opportunities with them to attend. Sponosred by Career and Placement Services. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Applause," 1929, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m. WWF Superstars of Wrestling. $12 and $9. ACC 
9:00p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Kiss Me Deadly," 1955. Di­
rected by Robert Aldrich. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Veal Parmesan Grinder Spaghetti and Shells with Sausage Filet of Sole Florentine Garlic Baked Chicken 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
-
-
Comics , _ 
Saint Mary's Hawaiin Ham Steak Italian Style Lasagna Apple Swedish Pancakes Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Attempt 5 Perfect 
10 Laugh loudly 14 Polynesian dance 15 Spiritual 
nourishment 16 Outer limit 17 Participating 18 King of Troy 19 Game of 
chance 20 Was Important 22 Pep 24 Yale students 25 Wild ox 26 Frightens 29 Widowed 33 Beak 34 Up to this 
point 36 Proper 37 Art style 39 Sheer fabric 41 James Bond 
adversary 42 Harden: var. 
44 Stephen VIncent ­46 Old Fr. coin 47 Chosen 49 Part of a sonnet 51 Norse god 52 Egyptian god 53 Item of stability 56 Assumptions 60 Balsam 61 Actress JoAnn 63 Observe 64 Responsibility 66 Simian 66 Toodle-oo 67 Armadillo 68 Prices 69 Ready for business 
DOWN 1 Kind of filler 2 Sandwich filler 3 Thanks -1 4 Chit-chat 6 Put behind 
bars 
----------~-------. 
Sports
page 16 Monday, October 5, 1987 
Irish volleyball tops Hawkeyes 
By BRIAN O'GARA Irish rallied to take a 5-2 lead kills, out-finessed Mullarkey Sports Writer behind a kill and service ace and tipped the ball to an open by sophomore Kathy Cunnin­spot in the Hawkeye defense 
After dropping a tough con­gham and several Hawkeye and gave the Irish a two-game test with Northwestern last miscues. Iowa stayed close to lead. Wednesday, the Notre Dame Notre Dame by finding the Iowa jumped out to another volleyball team rallied back for gaps in the Irish backcourt, but 2-0 lead in the final game of the to win nine-straight games and junior Mary Kay Waller evening and the two teams three matches and improve its teamed with Kathy Baker and battled to an 8-8 tie before record to 14-3. Maureen Shea for two blocks Notre Dame ran the score up 
The Irish concluded their before ending the first game to 14-8. Shea and Waller teamed hectic week of four matches in with a service ace. for the final two blocks as the four days with an impressive Waller continued to harass Irish ran away with the game sweep of Iowa, 15-10, 15-8, 15-9, the Hawkeyes at the start of and the match with a 15-9 win Saturday evening in the Joyce game two with several kills to in the third game. ACC. put the Irish up 5-2. Iowa Bennett led the Irish in kills 
"It's been a long road trip battled back to tie the score at with 16, while Cunningham this past month," said Head 6-6, thanks to too many added 13 kills and 12 digs. Shea Caoch Art Lambert, "and misplaced Notre Dame kills. and Waller led the defense at we're delighted to come home. After Lambert called his troops the net with 11 blocks each. We didn't play as well as we together for a timeout, the Irish "Iowa is not a formally are capable, but I think the quickly got their act together predictable team," said Lam­players were a litle weary and and jumped ahead 10-6. bert, "so it was good for us to I'm delighted to win the match. Iowa's Ellen Mullarkey held play them. We had to adjust of­
"It was not an artistic suc­off the eventual Notre Dame ten and be on our toes all cess, but it was a good win for win with a solo block on junior night." us." Zanette Bennett's kill at game­Notre Dame's loss to 
Iowa jumped out to a 2-0 lead point, but a moment later Ben­
see IRISH, page 13
in the opening game before the nett, known for her thunderous 
Soccer team wins in OT, 4-2 
By PETE GEGEN to second place on Notre a corner kick off an Irish Assistant Sports Editor Dame's all-time asist list with defender to cut the lead to 2-1 
24. He needs only six more to atthe 52:40 mark. 
The Irish soccer team over­over take Sami Kahale for the Twenty minutes later Irish came a second-half letdown to lead. stopper John Guignon was defeat Wisconsin 4-2 in over­"I'm not looking for assists," whistled for tripping in the time Friday night. said Morris. "What's happened penalty box on a tackle. Andy 
Forwards Pat Murphy and is different people have differ­Rectenwal, the Badger'sBruce "Tiger" McCourt both ent roles on the team, and after leading scorer, took the penalty scored in the second overtime three or four games it all kick and beat Irish keeper Dan period to give Notre Dame its started to fall in place. Tiger Lyons with a rocket to the right 11th win on the season without and Joey Sternberg have been corner. a defeat. The Irish have one tie. scoring the goals and I've been The Irish argued that and 
In a cold, windy, rainy first getting the assists." several . other calls in the half it appeared Notre Dame The second half was a differ­second half, much to the dis­would dominate the game. The ent story as Wisconsin took pleasue of the referee, who Irish controlled the midfield, charge of the game and had the whistled 27 fouls on Notre and they scored the first goal Irish chasing the ball. Dame in regulation time to of the game when midfielder ''They wanted it very badly,'' Wisconsin's 11. Rolfe Behrje headed home his said Irish head coach Dennis No scoring occured in the fifth goal of the year off a direct Grace, who was feeling the ef­first 10 minutes of overtime. kick by forward Randy Morris. fects of the flu. "I usually yell But one minute into the second 
Morris assisted again on a at the players at the half, but overtime period, Murphy goal with four minutes left in this time I didn't think to, and scored the game winner. On the 
The Observer 1 Greg Kohs 
the half. He fed a perfect pass they were just all over us the play midfielder Kurt Roemer Notre Dame's Joe Sternberg attempts to stop a Drake opponent In to midfielder Joe Sternberg, second half. I have to take the hit a corner to the far post.action earlier this fall. Sternberg and the Irish won yet another who volleyed home his 12 goal blame for not getting the McCourt headed the ball to overtime contest yesterday by dropping Wisconsin, 4-2. The game in as many games. players ready." 
story Is at right. Morris' two assists move him Wisconsin's Steve Rose head see SOCCER, page 11 
Rosenthal takes a look at the future of ND athletics 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN import to a university and to collegiate and the club pro­are competed in intercol­so that we can have kind of a Sports Writer our kids. Secondly, the more grams. We raise more money legiately in programs that we blueprint for where we'd like events we have on our campus by playing at home than on the don't have intercollegiate to go in the future. Chances are 
Editor's note -This is the the more recreational and en­road. teams. This is not suggesting if we know where we'd like to third of a three-part interview tertainment we provide to the Q: We've talked about how that we are moving in any of go we might even get there. with Notre Dame Athletic community -primarily to the there are more women coming these because they all take Q: Turning quickly to some Director Dick Rosenthal. In university community but to Notre Dame. Can you see huge sums of money, but we of the issues that have been dis­this final installment, Rosen­corollarily to our surrounding adding more women's pro­are certainly going to look at cussed in previous years, there thal talks about some of the is­community. grams down the road? things such as softball, soccer has been a big debate nation­sues facing Notre Dame ath­I don't know what the spil­A: I would suspect that for -which are rapidly developing ally about Notre Dame joining letics. lover effect is of just the foot­us to live up to our responsibili­intercollegiate sports -and a conference. What are your
ball programis. I saw a study ties to our total constituency, track which we don't even com­views on that? that Penn State did as to what that we're going to be expand­pete in except cross country. A: We are today looking at their program means to their ing the offerings menu of op­Those are areas that need to be limited conference affiliation. 
Q: Going along with the ques­community, and I am absolut­portunities to both women and looked at, and we have to find Pure amd simple our two tion of a new stadium, Gene ley convinced that the eco­men. I think that it's a truism ways to support them if they major revenue producing Corrigan had said that until nomic effects of this program to say that out program for wo­are indeed beneficial to our stu­sports, football and basketball, something happens with the are immense. I don't have any men is still in developing stage. dent body. substantially generate all the stadium, Notre Dame is going statistical information, but an­Women at this university are It may well be that in the life revenues to support all the ath­to have to schedule more home nually someplace between $50-yet, historically, in a new of intercollegiate athletics that letic programs here. It would games. Is that more of your 100 million of economic activity phase, in an infancy if you will. we will be doing some things be financially perhaps suicidal thinking at these early stages? was probably brought into this We didn't have women for the differently and may be not if not incredibly difficult for us 
A: There are lots of reasons area by reason of just the foot­first 100 years plus of our exis­doing everything we currently to consider taking either one of for us to want to have a strong ball program. tence. There probably will be do. We're currently making an those two major revenue pro­priority in scheduling more Having more events here has further and more rapid devel­analysis of this very issue ducers and abandoning our in­home games in all of our an economic benefit. It's a true opment in some of our offerings within the department. We're dependent status and putting sports. Obviously, the more statement that we raise more for women because we have in looking at not only what we do them in a current conference. time we spend at home the less money to support the athletic place programs for men. We but at what needs exist in our I must say that it is a dynamictime we take our students away programs -and that's all the have an awful lot of women who current programs. We're also from classes. That's of major programs, non-varsity, inter-participate in the sports that assessing other opportunities see A.D., page 14 






