Maybe, maybe not
/ACCENT: The man in green 
Partly cloudy today with a 50 percent chance of thun­dershowers. High in the up­

lVIEWPOINT: Losing ground in space 
per 70s. 



THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1987VOL. XXI. NO. 18 
' 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
·.-..._,~ ly.
bers. The other three students, ~~ Reagan led a nationallywho had not been dismissed televised Pledge of Allegiancefrom the old squad. were eligi­for "Celebrate the Constitution ble to try out for the new team. 

Day," the preamble toThe three former members Thursday's bicentennial bash. 
tried out, but did not make the "It's still our blueprint fornew team, said Snavely. 

freedom," Reagan said fromThe decision to dismiss the the Capitol in Washingtonseven guard members "was during the day-long civics and 
based on incidents that oc­The Observec-Susy Hemandez curred this year in light of in­Under where? history lesson. 
In anticipation of the first home game coming up window to the awaiting Notre Dame freshmen At the New York Stock Ex­
cidents that occurred last 

this weekend, freshmen of Regina Hall toss arti­below In the annual "panty raid." cles of clothing of dubious nature out of their see BIRTHDAY, page 5
see GUARD, page 3 


Pope says dissent from church law 'grave error' 

Associatt•d PrPss 
LOS ANGELES -In a blunt exchange, American bishops told Pope John Paul II on Wed­nesday that "an uncritical ap­plication" of old solutions is no longer good enough for U.S. Catholics. But the pope called dissent from church law "a grave error" and incompatible with being a good Catholic. 
There was no compromise in the pope's reply to the leader­ship of the American Church, as he affirmed the Church's stand against women priests, contraception, divorce, abor­tion and homosexual acts. 
"Dissent from Church doctrine remains what it is, dis­sent," the pope said in remarks to 320 of the nation's 400 bis­hops. "As such it may not be proposed or received on an equal footing with the Church's authentic teaching." 
The meeting with the bishops began a day in which the pope also visited with Nancy Reagan and met with representatives of the Hindu, Buddhist, Moslem and Jewish faiths. Later, he was to say Mass in Dodger Stadium. 
During the private meeting at a seminary in the San Fer­nando Mission complex, the pope was treated to an un­usually frank discussion about what bothers American Cat­holics and has caused them to ignore many of the Church's teachings. 
A Los Angeles Times poll of 957 Catholics last month found 9 of 10 say Catholics may dis­agree with Church policies and still be considered loyal fol­lowers. Sixty percent dis­agreed with the Church's ban on women in the priesthood, and only 25 percent thought birth control is sinful. 
To accept faith, said the pope, is to abide by the Church's teachings and "it would be altogether out of place to try to model this act of reli­gion on attitudes drawn from secular culture." 
The pope was addressed by four senior bishops of the American Church. 
"We live in an open society where everyone prizes the freedom to speak his or her mind," said Cardinal Joseph Bernardin. "Many tend to question things, especially those matters which are impor­tant to them, as religion is." 
Archbishop John Quinn of San Francisco told the pope that "the first challenge, the conversion of the mind, is to convey to American Catholics that the revolutionary changes which have occurred in per­sonal and societal life in the 20th century are not grounds 
see POPE, page 3 


Disapproval 'widespread' for Scholastic cartoon 
By KRISTIN COLLIGAN 
News Staff 
Members of the black com­munity at Notre Dame have ex­pressed concern over what they consider a racial remark in a cartoon in last week's Scholastic Magazine. 
The cartoon, "Life in Hell," by syndicated artist Matt Groening, had a teacher telling a character that in high school he would face "gangs, drug­pushers and Negroes." 
The cartoon "puts blacks in the same context as criminals," said Rochelle Holder, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council. "To propagate that type of informa­tion is wrong and disrespect­ful." 
Dennis Tillman, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, said, "It's as if one, two, three there's a definite re­lationship between drug­pushers, gangs and Negroes." 
Kathleen McKernan, editor of Scholastic, said she was 
surprised by the reaction on campus. "It was definitely not a type of thing that was 
.neant to be offensive." 
In a statement issued Wed­nesday, McKernan said, "Scholastic now recognizes that in publishing that strip we inadvertently hurt deeply many of our readers. Scholas­tic did not mean to cause pain in any way. 
"We officially apologize for any hurt that cartoon may have caused any and all members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community," she added. 
Holder said she thought the cartoon was printed without thought to the feelings of the community. "It was a careless error, and there was no reason this needed to happen," she said. "The way it was accepted by the people (at Scholastic) who read it was careless and irresponsible on the part of Scholastic." 
Tillman also expressed con­cern about the ease with which the cartoon was run. "I have a feeling that it was read, maybe interpreted as being a little fun­ny, and overlooked. And that is probably the thing that has up­set the students the most," he said. McKernan, however, said she does not feel that the cartoon was meant to be taken as a racial statement. "It's the kind of attitude that's always presented to people going off to high school," McKernan said. "It was dryly mocking what the teacher was saying. He's 
see CARTOON, page 4 

~--------~----------~~~~-----~----~~--------~------.-------------~--~----------~~-------. 
Thursday, September 17, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Prince Harry, younger son of Prince Charles and Princess Diana, spent his first day at nursery school Wed­nesday making a pair of cardboard binoculars. Harry, who turned 3 on Tuesday, arrived at school with his parents 
and 5-year-old brother, Prince William. Two hours later his mother came to take him home. "I was upset about leaving Harry," Diana was quoted as saying. -Associated Press The Earth's ozone layer will be protected by a treaty that calls on nations to reduce emissions of harmful chemi­cals by the year 2000, signed by two dozen countries Wed­nesday. Friends of the Earth, hailing the treaty as an important first step, announced Wednesday that McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King and Kentucky Fried Chicken franchises in the United States and some other countries have agreed to abandon chlorofluorocarbon­filled foam packaging for safer materials. "It's the tip of the iceberg, but a visible one," said the group's interna­tional director, Geoffrey Webb. -Associated Press Of Interest Dillon Pep Rally will be held outside Dillon Hall tonight at 8:30. Guests will include running back Mark Green, offensive guard Dean Brown, and quarterback Tony Rice. Everyone is encouraged to join this ND football tradition. -The Observer Sophomore Little Sibs Weekend was originally planned for October 2-4 but has been postponed until the spring. -The Observer A memorial Mass for Joseph McCarthy will be held today at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15p.m. Fr. Mall~y will celebrate the Mass and all are invited to attend. -The Observer "Tops In Blue," a musical production by the U.S. Air Force, will be performed tonight at 8 in the ACC arena. This free performance will be held in honor of the bicen­tennial of the Constitution and the 40th anniversary of the U.S. Air Force. -The Observer Off-campus students: there will be a picnic at 1146 South Bend Avenue, across from Lee's Ribs, this Saturday. The picnic will be from 1 p.m. until gametime. Bring a dish if you like. Live music will be provided. -The Observer You will hear bells across campus today at 3 p.m. as Notre Dame participates in the Bells Across America celebration of the signing of the United States Constitution. Bells across the nation will ring simultaneously for 200 seconds, more than three minutes, to commemorate the historic moment the Constitution was signed 200 years ago. -The Observer N.D. window posters will be distributed for every dormroom window on campus this evening. Please hang these in your window as soon as possible to show support for the Irish as they take on Michigan State. -The Observer SMC Jazz Concert, featuringpianistClaytonHenderson, that was originally scheduled for tonight has been can­celled and will be rescheduled at a later date. -The Ob­server  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ....... Rob Luxem Accent Copy_Editor ... ....... Beth Healy Design Assistant .. .. Pete LeFleur Accent Layout... .. Ann Biddlecom Typesetters...................... Paul Babka ................................... Heather Hypres ............................................. Mike Buc ................................. Valerie Lamanna News Editor.................... Scott Bearby Typists......... .. .. Lynn Ewing Copy Editor .... Karen Webb .................................... Jennifer Conlon Sports Copy Editor ...... Rick Rietbrock ND Day Editor ... Kathy McKee ........................................... Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ..... ..... Karen Rader Viewpoint Editor ........Brian Broderick Photographer Susy Hernandez Viewpoint Layout. DeeDee Wroblewski Tile Olllener (USPS S99 2~) is publish<'<! Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tbe Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $'10 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile O!Mener is a member of Tile Aaodaled Pras. All reproduction right.s are reserved.  


Michael Jackson hype a thing of the past 
If there is one rock artist who is universally held in contempt by today's college students it is surely Michael Jackson. 
Despite the fact that an overwhelming percentage of these same people at one time either bought or taped Jackson's hit album "Thriller," and probably still remember the words to its songs, they are reluctant to admit their past admiration. More likely than not, their copy has been lost, taped over, or ig­nominously handed down to a younger brother or sister who doesn't listen to it either. 
Around campus the consensus holds Jackson to be "major uncool." And even though people are aware that his newest album is out, nobody seems to care. For many, this pretended indif­ference even veils a hidden hostility to the former star. People want to see Jackson's al­bum fail. 
And this contempt extends to the general public as well. Given Jackson's immense popularity only three years ago, it's amazing that none of his "Thriller" songs receive any airplay anymore. Clearly this once-popular fig­ure is now shunned. Jackson dolls, microphones, T-shirts, posters and other paraphanelia likewise have vanished from the market. Single white gloves, like bell-bottom jeans and leisure suits of an earlier era, seem to have gone the way of the dinasaur -and no one misses them. 
Why then is he poised for a comeback? As­suming that Columbia Records is aware of his present unpopularity why would they gamble so much money on an album that is resented by many ex-fans before it is even released? Is it even possible that millions of dollars in high­tech hype can bring back a glittery, high­pitched singer of apparently mixed gender and indeterminate sexual inclinations? Does this mean that "moonwalking" and 'breakdancing will be on the upswing again soon? 
Perhaps the key to these questions lies with Jackson's mysterious disappearance from the limelight after his "Victory" tour. A larger question that needs answering is this: how is it that a man (?) who was held so high in the public esteem fell so quickly to the depths of public scorn? 
Once upon a time Michael Jackson was sur­rounded by the glamour of screaming fans. Now it's only rumors that follow him-his hair caught fire, he bought the Elephant Man's bones, he sleeps in a special oxygen chamber in hopes of living longer, etc. And while these stories circ­ulate Michael has done nothing to counteract their deragatory effect. No media events, no 

Jim Carroll 
Photo Editor 


new concerts, no commercials, no interviews, not even the ever popular charity appearance to show the world what a generous guy he can be. During the few times he crossed paths with the media since his touring ended he calmly maintained his low-key, aloof posture. 
Whether Michael Jackson was banished by disgruntled fans, or whether his disappearance should more accurately be termed a self­imposed exile is a question that does not interest many people right now. The public just feels good that he is gone. But could it be that the sudden drop from the peaks of popularity is just another ploy to keep his career alive? The sudden disappearance, the mulltiple face lifts and the radical change in style seem to suggest that the old Michael Jackson died and has now been reincarnated into a new form. And if his past life forms weren't weird enough the new Michael Jackson has vowed to outdo his past. 
So which will be the greater challenge, to come back amidst a barrage of popular disdain or to outstrip the flashy showman of the past? Couldn't it all be part of the gimmick? If so isn't it possible that the BeeGees could someday play the same game? 


Thursday, September 17, 1987 The Observer 
page 3 

... 
Student-alumnae contact on Saint Mary's agenda 
By KATHLEEN CROOKS News staff 
The Saint Mary's Alumnae Association Board of Directors, in town this weekend for their bi-annual meeting, will discuss a more advanced system of net­working students with alumnae for career and business purposes. 
The Board of Directors is a group of 18 women representing different classes that assemble from all over the United States to aid in the advancement of education and facilities at Saint Mary's. 
"These are valuable wo­
men and we want them to 
have not only a fruitful meeting, but also a good time," said Jean Martin, director of alumnae rela­tions at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
The main goal of the board this year is to design a more sophisticated system for keeping students and alumnae in touch for busi­ness purposes. 
In order to assist Saint Mary's, the board finds it is necessary to group board members into four commit­tees that can focus on differ­ent areas of campus development, said Martin. 
The Alumnae Resource Committee keeps track of all the alumnae and what they are doing with their lives. 
The Development Com­mittee works in coalition with the college to assess the financial and educational needs of the college. 
New methods of recruit­ment are researched by the Recruitment Committee and ideas on how to help the student body are researched through meetings with stu­dents by the Student­Alumnae Committee, accor­ding to Martin. 

This fall four new mem­bers will be orientated. They will serve a 3-year term with an option to serve one addi­tional term when the first is over. The four new members are Pamela Carey Batz, '70; Colleen O'Brien Carey, '74; Peggy Schneeman, '82; and Mary Beth Dornbach Snyder, '80. 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
The long waits to use washers and dryers in the LaFortune Student Center laundry room are about to end. 
Since the beginning of the school year five washing mac­hines and the coin inserters on five dryers have been missing. 
But new washing machines and dryer parts will be in­stalled "by the first of next week," explained Robert Wat­kins, director of support ser­vices. 
The machines and parts that were removed are being used in Howard Hall, according to Watkins. He said that in the conversion from a men's to a women's dorm, the plans called for installing a laundry room. 
'Missing' washers moved to Howard 
St. joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking Center in LaFortune Student Center. We're right on your way to


St.joe Bank, 
wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed. 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­
Now Open On 
thing you need from a bank, and more: 0 Free checking for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 off your first order of checks. 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card with access to

Notre Dame 
·the CIRRUS nationwide network 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness).
0 Free VISA Traveler Checks. 
Campus 
And of course we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire transfers. 
To open your free checking account package stop by our office in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 
St. Joseph Bank 
Ifyour money could talk, it would tell you St. Joe. 
LaFortune Student Center, lower level Monday-Friday 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 
.~
~-ts (t1l987 St. joseph Bancorporalion Member FDIC CIRRUS. 
Except somebody on the project forgot to order the mac­hines. 
"It's the last thing you think of when changing over a boys' to a girls' dorm," Watkins said. 
The whole problem was be­cause of a lack of communica­tion, Watkins added. 
"All of a sudden they (the renovators) needed them and no one told us," he noted. 
The decision was then made to take the machines and parts from the LaFortune machines and put them in Howard, Wat­kins said. 
The purchasing department has been in contact with Whirlpool Corporation since then about replacing the mac­hines and parts. 
The dryers are still opera­tional, Watkins said, but with the coin inserts removed they can't be used. 

Pope 
continued from page 1 

for dismissing Church teaching as outmoded." 
The pope was blunt in response. 
"It is sometimes reported that a large number of Cat­holics today do not adhere to the teaching of the Church on a number of questions, notably sexual and conjugal morality, divorce and remarriage," he said. "Some are reported as not accepting the Church's clear position on abortion. 

Guard 
continued from page 1 

year," said Father David Tyson, vice president of Stu­dent Affairs. 
Tyson said that he did not want to comment on the nature of the violations cited in the decision in order to protect the privacy of the individuals in­volved. 
According to Tyson, the seven dismissed members ap­pealed the action to Father Ed­ward Malloy, president of the University, who sent letters to the former Guard members up­holding the decision. 
"I wanted to deal with the Irish Guard as an organiza­tion" said Tyson. "I didn't send it (the issue) to residence life," Tyson said, adding that no charges were brought against the individual Guard mem­bers. 
The Guard members were also dismissed last November by James Phillips, who was act­ing director of bands at that time. The Guard was reinstated at the beginning of this year, said Snavely. 
Tyson said that the dismissal last year was entirely a band matter, but that he felt inci­dents that occurred this year made the situation severe enough to intervene. 
"As a person, I have long been a supporter of the band," Tyson said." I think that the band as a whole provides a pos­itive image of the University, ''but one unit (the Guard l seemed to be failing consistent­ly," Tyson said. 
"I'm in favor of anything that adds to the good name and image of Notre Dame. In the long run this will be good for Notre Dame," said Snavely. 


page 4 The Observer 



::sd~~ptemM• 17, 19: -l 
Reagan denies peace repudiation 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The White House said Wednesday it sees no contradiction between Pres­ident Reagan's support for stopgap aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels and his promise to back efforts for a Central American peace settlement. 
"We see it first of all as a fairness issue," presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters. 
Fitzwater denied that Reagan's stand was "a repudiation in any way" of his agreement with House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, to delay requests for new aid for the rebels until after Sept. 30 to give the peace talks a chance. ,; '~' J ~ The spokesman was ques­The Observeli'Susy Hernandez tioned repeatedly about theTaking shape president's announced support 
A student rolls out a rope of clay to make a piece one of the many finely sculpted talents Notre 
for a proposal by House Repub­
of coiled pottery for an art project In the Riley Dame students possess. 
lican leader Robert Michel of 
Hall of Art and Design. Pottery making Is only 
Illinois to offer an amendment to a 30-day spending bill to con­tinue assistance to the Contras. The spending bill, designed
Bark defends role in Watergate 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork, parrying attacks on his in­tegrity , by Democratic senators, said Wednesday he acted honorably and legally in 1973 when he fired special Watergate prosecutor Ar­chibald Cox. 
In a dramatic retelling of what Bork called "an enor­mous governmental crisis," he said that as soon as Cox was dismissed, "I did promptly act to safeguard the special prose­cution. I understood from the beginning my moral and pro­fessional lives were on the line if something happened to the special prosecution force." 
The gripping sparring match between Bork and Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Com­mittee occurred in the same marble-columned room that was the site 14 years ago of hearings that helped lead to President Nixon's political demise. This week the room is the setting for Bork's nation­ally televised confirmation hearings. 
The questions on what has be­come known as the Saturday Night Massacre marked an in­terruption in attacks -soon to resume-on Bork's political and judicial ideology as opponents 
Cartoon 
continued from page 1 

mocking the way people 
think." 

Holder said, "I have received 
calls not only from the black 
population but also from other 
students on campus, and they 
were infuriated. They were em­
barrassed. The disapproval 
was widespread." 

Holder said the BCAC has 
heard from some members of 
the administration, whom she 
said she would not identify, 
supporting the objections and 
promising to be in contact with 
Scholastic. 

McKernan said the "Life in 
Hell" cartoon has been under 
question in the past, but not by 
the students. "The students 
I've talked to love the cartoon 
in general. A lot of the admi­sought additional grounds to defeat his confirmation. 
Liberal opponents of Bork, a 60-year-old federal appeals court judge, say if he is con­firmed to succeed the recently retired Justice Lewis Powell he could push the closely divided court to the right for years, per­haps decades, to come. Sup­porters say he is clearly qualified to join the nine­member court. 

Robert Bork 

Bork spent much of Wednes­day responding to questions about his views on such sub­jects as civil rights, abortion and privacy. 
The proceedings generated few sparks as Bork spelled out in calm, measured tones his conservative legal approach that has evolved in a 25-year 
nistrators don't like it. I never anticipated a problem from the students." 
McKernan cited the context in which the cartoon was writ­ten. The strip is a grade-by­grade look at the attitudes of teachers towards students. Each square contains a derogatory comment from the teacher to the failing student with a negative attitude. The cartoon "is attacking the tradi­tional stereotype of people who are worried about going to high school because there are going to be 'negroes' there," McKer­nan said. 
Tillman said he can see that side of the argument as well. "Personally, as a black student on campus, I think there may be a question about context. Groening's making a state­ment. If you follow the se­quence, he presents 16 themes which you are told all of your 
to continue government spend­career as lawyer, Ivy League ing at current levels while scholar and judge. Congress works on appropria­
He acknowledged that some tion bills for the fiscal year of his views "have evolved and beginning Oct. 1, is expected to changed," and he sought sup­reach the House floor this port for that by quoting Ben­week. jamin Franklin as saying, 
"Having lived long I have experienced many instances of 

Gulf cease-fire ends 
being obliged by better infor­mation or fuller consideration 
Associated Press

to change opinions even on im­portant subjects." 
MANAMA, Bahrain -IraqBut Bork said he has never unleashed its fighter-bomber,schanged an opinion in order to against Iranian oil centers and win confirmation to a judges­a ship in the Persian Gulf onhip or for any other reward. 
Wednesday, saying Tehran has In one example of a changed spurned "all peace efforts" inopinion, Bork said in 1971 that the 7-year-old gulf war.
free speech protections apply The air raids signaled a newonly to political speech but has flare-up in the so-calledsince said that approach was "tanker war" after a six-daytoo narrow. 
lull in the waterway that coin­Until his nomination last cided with a peace mission byJuly, Bork was best known by U.N. Secretary-General Javierthe general public for his ac­Perez de Cuellar. 
tions the night of Oct. 20, 1973. 
Shipping officials feared IranThat Saturday night, Nixon might stage retaliatory attacks ordered Cox fired when the 
on neutral shipping in theHarvard professor insisted the southern reaches of the gulf. 
president surrender White "The U.N. secretary-House tapes to the special pros­general's mission has beenecutor's office. In quick succes­
sion, then-Attorney General El-r,!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
liot Richardson resigned, his top deputy, William Ruckel­shaus, was fired after refusing to dismiss Cox, and Bork, the third-ranking Justice Depart­ment official, carried out the president's order. 
life. 

"If you showed me just the '8th grade' segment, I would be incensed. In the context that he presented it, I have to say he's making a very valid point, a crucial point, and that is that as long as you continue to tell children these type of things, you're going to run into these attitudes, and probably this child will grow with a bad atti­tude about gangs, drug pus­hers, and blacks. 
"My objection to this cartoon is if he did mean something by putting all three of these things together. I don't think he's trying to be funny. I think that 
he's taking a Satirical, SOrt Of reflective look at life. I think the Way he presented it, the in­elusion Of NegroeS in that COn­text, WaS in very poor taste. lt 
is still offensive, but at the l~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,Ji"iiliil?,ii~riiriiniiMiiFii,iiJi"iill?ii,~iirii.~iiJi"iiRiiviiJi"ii;-,ii,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
same time I think you've got to look at it from a different angle." 
STRATFORD SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL 
"A Weekend in Canada ... A Change of Scene" <October 9-11 , 1987 l 
TRAVEL: Chartered buses leave Notre Dame Campus at 7:00 a,m .. October 9 and return at 6:00p.m. on October I L 
THE PLAYS:  CABARET  b ~h p.m,  Oct. »  
OTHELLO  2:00p.m.  Oct. W  
MUCH ADO  8:00p.m.  Oct. 10  

ABOUT NOTHING 

ACCOMMODATIONS: Bed and Breakfast <Accommodations= two evening' and two breakfasts> 
PARTIES AND MEETINGS WITH ACTORS FOLLOWING ALL PERFORMANCES!!! 
COST: $150: Includes Round Trip Transportation, h:xcellent Tickets To All :'t rformances. Bed and Breakfast, Private Bacl,stage Tours of the Festival Theatre! 
PAYMENT IN FULL REQUIRED TO <WARANTEE YOUR RESERI'ATION 
SIGN-UP IN ROOM 331v.l56 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239_539s OR CONTACT PROFESSOR RATHBURN AT 239-5069, 
Fitzwater said, as Michel did Tuesday, that House Democrats had designed the bill to continue funds for all government programs except aid to the rebels, who are fight­ing Nicaragua's leftist Sandi­nista government. 
"We see it first of all as a fairness issue ... in terms of continuing our aid to the resis­tance during that month the budget is under considera­tion," the spokesman said. "We do not consider it as a repudiation in any way of Speaker Wright." 
''This is not a new funding request," he added. "We will not have a request until after the 30th." 
Secretary of State George Shultz told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last week that the administration will ask for $270 million in aid for the Contras over 18 months. 
Michel's amendment would call for an appropriation of about $8.3 million, one month's share of the current fiscal year appropriation of $100 million for military and other aid. He said his amendment would be for humanitarian and commu­nications aid and for delivery of military and other equip­ment already on its way. 
portrayed as a last-ditch peace effort, so it might be hell from now on," said one shipping ex­ecutive, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
However, a flotilla of U.S. warships escorting the Gas Prince, a Kuwaiti tanker flying the American flag, was re­ported to be nearing Kuwait's Al-Ahmadi oil terminal after an incident-free 550-mile voyage up the gulf. 
Tehran's Islamic Republic News Agency, monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, quoted a War Information Headquarters spokesman as saying Iran will "strongly respond" to Iraq's "mischievous acts." 

Thursday, September 17, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
..,~


Gorbachev: Treaty possible -Presse­
worked out before the end of called "double-zero" first pro­
Associated Press the current year," he said. posed by Reagan in 1981. MOSCOW -Soviet leader Both sides have said that the "The treaty on medium-and Mikhail Gorbachev said signing of an agreement to shorter-range missiles would Thursday a treaty eliminating scrap the missiles with a range be a fine prelude to a medium-range nuclear mis­of between 300 and 3,000 miles breakthrough at the talks on siles could still be worked out would be an occasion for Gor­large-scale -50 percent -reduc­this year by the superpowers, bachev to visit Washington for tions in strategic offensive and an accord to cut strategic his third summit meeting with arms in conditions of the strict weapons was possible early President Reagan. observance" of the 1972 Anti­next year. Gorbachev termed as "con­Ballistic Missile treaty, he Gorbachev made the upbeat ducive ... to a certain extent" said. statement in a major article West German Chancellor Hel­"I believe that, given a being published in the Soviet mut Kohl's announcement last mutual striving, an accord on press Thursday in conjunction month that his country would that matter could become a with the opening of the 42nd not seek to modernize its 72 reality as early as in the first session of the United Nations. Pershing 1A missiles equipped half of the next year," Gorbac­It was billed as a major So­with U.S. nuclear warheads. hev said. viet statement on a system of Elimination of those weap­worldwide security and was ons is one of the sticking points The Soviet Union says released by the official news in wrapping up an agreement. Reagan administration plans · agency Tass in Moscow shortly Verification issues also to develop its space-based anti­after midnight Wednesday as remain. missile system, popularly 
U.S. Secretary of State George The United States has ac­called "Star Wars," is a viola­Shultz and Soviet Foreign Min­cused the Soviet Union of tion of the ABM treaty. ister Eduard Shevardnadze raising the issue of the West The Soviets say there can be met in Washington to work out German missiles as a last­no agreement on limiting stra­the details of an arms treaty. minute barrier to an agree­tegic, or long-range, missiles 
Gorbachev said a treaty ment, and have sought to keep unless the two sides reach an eliminating U.S. and Soviet the warheads stockpiled at understanding on the space­medium-and shorter-range nu­home rather than destroy based system. clear missiles is "possible and them. Earlier Wednesday, Shultz realistic." reported "some progress" in 
"The Soviet Union is The Soviet Union insists that the talks, which were sched­proceeding from the premise all such warheads be detroyed uled to shift to Afghanistan and that a relevant treaty could be by both sides to reach the so-other regional issues. 

Cat adopts mouse, then kills it 
Associated Press Southeast, said it was unusual and mice are not instinctively for an animal of one species to enemies. Adult cats who had 
FLOYDS KNOBS, Ind. -take care of another, but it hap­been raised with mice didn't When Jo Jo the Calico cat pens. try to kill them, the study said. adopted a tiny little mouse as "I believe since the cat part of her litter, Pam Eves­recently had kittens, she still But Jo Jo and the mouse lage thought it was downright has the maternal hormones cir­weren't raised together. unnatural. culating and is treating the 
After all, she had brought Jo mouse like one of her kittens," Their relationship took a Jo home to rid her house of he said. nasty turn on Wednesday. mice. Atnip added that it also was 
But when she saw the mother unusual for the mouse to ven­When Eveslage got home cat nursing the baby mouse on ture out in the open during the from work late Wednesday af­Sunday, Eveslage changed her day and climb into Jo Jo's box ternoon, the tiny mouse was mind because it was "so small in the garage since mice gen­found dead in Jo Jo's box. and cute." erally like dark, secluded "It looks like it got smashed. 
Jo Jo had baffled everyone by places. And she just ate it," Eveslage taking an uncanny liking to the "I've never seen anything said. "I just got home about mouse. like that before," he said. 4: 30 and I went out there and 
Gill Atnip, professor of psy­However, the professor cited looked. It looks like she laid on chology at Indiana University a 1920s study that showed cats it.'' 

Birthday
continued from page 1

HAPPY 

change, trading was halted briefly during the afternoon,

BIRTHDAY 
and workers cheered and waved American flags on the

MICHAEL! 
trading floor. In Boston, workers took off their hard hats, dropped their tools and
Step in at 

joined Reagan in the pledge. "We're a part of history,"

158 Alumni-
said Holly Maultz, 16, one of 108 pupils from the Country Day School of the Sacred Heart in Bryn Mawr, who recited the pledge on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS Kitty 
Help him eat that big Birthday Cake! 

Love from the Gang in Stevens Point 
Hawk, in Pennsylvania for an
+------------------------overhaul. 
Beauty and brains 
AP photo 
Wau Holland, chairman of the Chaos Computer Club, displays a computer at a Hamburg news conference Wednesday which he says friends used to break Into NASA computers. He said computer hackers succeeded last month In entering the U.S. space agency's worldwide computer network used for research and development. 





ATTENTION SENIORS: 
THE LOCATION FOR 
SENIOR PORTRAITS HAS 
BEEN CHANGED 10 THE 
NEW ORLEANS ROOM-­1ST FLOOR LA FORTUNE. 
If you missed signups see the secretary at the Information desk outside of tfle New Orleans Room between 12:00 & 8.00 pm. 
In Lancaster, the pledge had special meaning for Peter Bel­lamy Jr., 18, a freshman at Franklin and Marshall College whose great-grandfather, Francis Julius Bellamy, wrote the pledge 95 years ago as an assignment for Youth's Com­panion magazine. 
"It's been a family thing for generations, but nobody's ever made a big deal of it publicly for me before now,'' Bellamy said in a telephone interview. 
WANT~D 
USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
~Y 'N1 OR I!Vl!NINOS 

.-------~·~~-----·_____.._..-,1 





Viewpoint
page 6 Thursday. September 17. 1987 
Space 
While everyone has been caught up in the football season and the Iran­Contra hearings, something quiet has been going on in the backrooms of the Capitol. Perhaps you are familiar with the Honorable Senator Proxmire. He is the guy who makes the golden fleece awards to agencies squandering our taxes. Well, the good Senator is retir­ing, and he is leaving us with a won­derful legacy. Senator Proxmire is quietly going about killing NASA's space platform project. 
Robert Tomihiro 

guest column 
Now a space platform may not seem like much to you, but let me assure you that it is important. The space platform is a major goal for NASA. It means a
r 
r permanent presence in space, and it is 
also a big step towards a lunar colony. The shuttle program was created with this platform project in mind. The shuttle really doesn't do a good job of putting satellites in high orbits. A space platform of course, allows that capabil­ity. The platform is also important towards establishing iqdustry in space, and of course, it is vital to a working 
S.D.I system. Now I am not here to debate about 
S.D.I. If you like the idea of S.D.I., then you had better be worried. If you don't, you had still better be worried. The fact is that space is big business. Every major T.V. network, and cable televi­sion as well, relies on satellites for transmition. But it doesn't stop there. Long distance telephone companies use satellites. Oil companies use satellites to help in sea exploration. Large ships, including our Navy vessels, use satel­lites to track their position. Also, from the test so far, it appears that steel made in space is ten times as strong as that made on earth. Pharmaceutical companies have long been wanting to get into space so they can make purer drugs. The computer industry also is interested in getting into space. They can make better chips there. There is so much of a demand to get into space that a private company was formed to put up business payloads. 
Now, of course, all ofthat will be shot down. With th loss of the platform, NASA will be just another subsidized transportation company, like Amtrak. All those big companies will not. give 

Doonesbury 



platform needed by NASA 
up as easily as Congress. There are bil­
lions of dollars involved here. Just be­cause America loses its will to fly does not mean Europe, Japan, or Russia have. Japan doesn't have a functional program yet, but those little guys are good at finding a place in the market. I should point out that already compan­ies, American companies, have asked China about launching. Just think about all the money that will be flowing out of this country. It's kind of ironic that the most advanced country in the world, with the most advanced pro­gram, is grounded. While in other countries launches are being stepped up. It doesn't matter much that we have so much incredible technology when we refuse to use it. Other countries, with far less make up for it with courage and dedication. Unfortunately, our elected representatives in D.C. don't feel we support NASA any more. That misinformed opinion must change. 
Let me give a possible picture a few years from now. NASA has been gutted, and everyone in Congress is fighting over who gets to funnel the money into their state. Meanwhile, over in Mos­cow, some desperate American com­panies are making out big checks for Soviet launches. Now what happens to all that money? Rockwell certainly won't see any of it, nor will any other American company involved with the shuttle. Old comrade Ivan, on the other hand, now has a big wad burning a hole in his pocket. He sends some new toys over to his friends in Nicaragua and Cuba so they can romp around in Central America and make new friends. Where does the rest of it go? It goes to our farmers. With that kind of money, comrade Ivan can buy up surplus grain that you and I subsidized at bargain prices. Of course, Ivan won't keep it all. Some of it will go to un­decided nations so they can see what a great guy Ivan is. Finally, some of that money goes back into their space pro­gram, which brings me to my last point. 
Have you ever wondered what Russia is putting up there? They launch very regularly. Granted, they use outdated boosters, but they manage to get the job done. Now Russia doesn't need to put up more satellites for T.V. First they don't have that many T.V.s, and second, Propaganda Hour and the Life of Stalin are not very popular shows. They also don't have that many long distance calls to manage. As far as in­dustry is concerned, they don't really care. So what are they putting up? Some people believe killer satellites are being launched. After all, we know they have tested such systems. Even if you aren't that paranoid, it would be a fair guess that they are putting up surveil­lance and communication satellites. Those, of course, are used by the mili­tary. Considering the fact that these are the same people who sponsored the Iron Curtain, and imprison people who don't agree with them, I am a bit nervous about such a situation. But even if you believe that our comrades across the sea are really nice guys, the fact remains that is such a picture, America steps down from a first world nation and finds itself with more unemploy­ment and a big welfare budget, al­though I suppose budget is too loose a term to apply. 

Of course, such a far off picture may never come to pass. Maybe our people in Washington will come to their senses and do what is right. Maybe they will rise above the pork barreling and do what is good for the whole country. Maybe they will look down the road in­stead of at their own political careers. What do you think? 
Robert Tomihiro is a sophomore engineering major. 
P.O. Box Q 
tic, at first I was enraged, so degraded! I could not believe what I had read; that blacks had been classified with gangs and drugpushers. I saw no humor whatsoever in the strip. To have a comic strip character warn another character that upon arriving to high school the things to beware of are "gangs, drugpushers, and Negroes." Now tell me how I am supposed to find this humorous. 
I cannot believe that the editors of Notre Dame's Student Magazine would allow something of this nature printed, reflecting on the fact that this is slander against a family member. It did not matter that maybe I would be affected or hurt. Why, because I am black and I am not a family member. 

AT THIS T/Mt, I HAVe NO, 'KJ(/ ()//) RiJN THINK. Pfq;;S­REPE.A:f NO, POLITICAL­FOR. ({)N6/l£$... AMBITIONS IAJHA150eYER! 
\ 

Cartoon destroys sense of family 
Dear Editor: 
When I came to Notre Dame as a freshman, I was told that I was part of the Notre Dame family. This gave me a sense of worth and acceptance from my new family. But unfortunately I learned that I truly was not accepted as a member of this big family. Be­cause time and time again mud was thrown in my face and the faces of my brothers and sisters. But I kept on trying to be accepted by this family. 
Here we are at the beginning of a new school year. Everyone was welcomed back, even me. Then it happened, I picked up a Scholastic. I read the comic strip on the back of the Sept. 10 Scholas-
Garry Trudeau 

QI(AY, BUTIF PR£5/IJENT. 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski News Editor ................................................ Jim Ailey Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor ..........................Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll 
Quote of the Day 
"As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another." 
Proverbs 27:17 

Business Manager........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan Advertising M<.nager ................... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager....................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... laura Stanton 
Founded November 3, 1988 


The 
man 
•
In 
MAGGIE MACDONALD accent writer 

I 
f you catch a leprechaun, you can force him to disclose the location of a burled treasure. But beware! If you let your eyes off this small roguish elf for just one second, he may vanish Into thin air. I recently snared a leprechaun, and he did indeed reveal to me the location of a veritable treasure -the spirit of ND. 
This leprechaun, better known as Brian Stark.. knows the location and the nature of this treasure, being a mem­ber of the animated cheerleadlng squad at Notre Dame. Brian, originally from Erie, Penn., is a senlo.r mcijorlng In pre-med with a minor In anthropolgy. He has been Interested In the role of 
the leprechaun since his freshman year, 
and he has observed the competlon 
each year. Finally, as a senior, he felt it 
was his time to give it a shot and com­
pete for the position. "More than wan­
ting to be the leprechaun, it started 
with wanting to have a positive impact ­
add to the thrill of being in a world­
renown university." 
The competition, which lasted for about two months, was an initiation with the gymnastics, routines, and mental attitude that are involved in being NO's mascot. He was a natural candidate for the position with his Irish heritage, mutton chops and enthusias­tic personality. However, for Brian, the qymnastlc skills were not innate. Al­though he had been a cheerleader of 
sorts at his all-boys high school, the 
September 17, 1987 

tllps, tucks and other various maneuvers were foreign to him at the beginning of the competition. He faced the challenge and with the overwhelm­ing support of his parents and his section, he won the coveted role. 
Brian has accepted his position modestly. He sees himself not as a star in the spotlight, but as a leader. "People are here because they are proud of ND and its tradition. It is my desire to be the catalyst to people with that pride." 
He has found that being the catalyst is not all fun and games. Cheerleadlng is varsity sport; one that Includes two to three hour practices, and running and lifting three times a week. Brian says 
see LEPRECHAUN page 2 
September 17, 1987 Scene-Page 2 



Leprechaun 
continued from page 1 
Brian says that under the guidance of coach Sandy Van Slager "there is no playing around, but it's paying off." 
The challenge of the role does not end after the strenuous practices or the games. Being the leprechaun is 
"People are here because they are proud of NO and 
•

its tradition. It IS my desire to be the catalyst to people with that pride." 
a full time job. It entails being 
a leader on and off campus, 
and an example of ND for stu­dents and alumnists alike. Brian's moral code as a leprec­haun was tested at last Satur­day's game at U of M. He was harassed a lot and, as a former wrestler, was tempted to put a few of the drunken revelers in their place. 

According to Brian, his first experience as the ND Leprec­haun was "a helluva lot scarier" than he'd anticipated. However, 
he said,"ND people were everywhere. It was great!" The most exciting moments for Brian took place In joining the students In the stands during the game, and luring the stu­
dents onto the field afterwards. 
In addition to the regular trials and tribulations that plague a mascot Brian has faced added pressure: a contro­versial quip In an article written by Sports Illustrated that depleted last year's leprechaun as "worst mascot." Brian's Im­mediate reaction to the derogatory remarks was,"To hell with 'eml" He felt that 1) Mr. Looney, the author of the article, Is deserving of his name, 2) the leprechaun 
reflects the spirit of Notre 
Dame, and to slam the mascot 
is to slam ND, .3) and most im­
portantly, "Regardless of what 
Sports Illustrated says, the 
leprechaun is here to stay." 
Brian has an optimistic view of the 1987-88 season and, specifically, the upcoming game against MSU. According to him, everyone is working to produce an "awesome" weekend. He encourages stu­dents to concentrate on the "why rather than the where" of the pep rallle, and to wake up the echoes. He urges the alum­nists to "fake like they're stu­dents again -like they have 19 or 20 year old bodies -and fire up!" 
Brian feels that we all have that leprechaun spirit to one degree or another. It is Brian's job to help people catch that Internal leprechaun within all of us and keep a careful eye on him. Without this, the leprec­haun and the buried treasure --the ND spirit --could vanish into thin alrl 




A new kind of spirit: the emerald society 
JOE BUCOLO features writer 
T
he spirit is back...but did it ever leave? For 100 years Notre Dame has displayed the kind of school spirit that other insititutions can only dream about. But, to convince a few remaining "doubting Thomases," students plan to show more spirit than ever this year. In fact, a new group has been formed on campus to serve as a liason between stu­dents and l!he coaches of the football team. They call them­selves the Emerald society and, despite the formality implied by their name, consider them­selves an informal group and encourage all students to be­come involved with their activi­ties this year. 
With the great deal of en­thusiasm already in the air as a result of last Saturday's victory over Michigan, the society more than ready for this week's game against Michigan State. A great deal of spirit-rousing ac­tivities are planned and ready to go. 
The men and women of Notre Dame will "kickoff" the festivities with a Kickoff Picnic at Stepan Field on Friday at 
4:45. Dinner will run through 6:45, ending just in time for the pep rally. 
The pep rally at Stepan· Cen­ter is sure to be fun for all. This year the Leprechaun will emcee the occasion. Lou Holtz will speak at the event encour­aging students to show their spirit at the game by wearing as much gold or yellow as pos­sible. The rally begins at 7:00. 
Afterwards, students will be encouraged to head over to Krause Stadium to watch the Irish soccer team take on Mic­higan State. Ai' ._r tt-1e recent Notre Dame soc...~· victory over highly ranked Indiana, Friday's event. The dedication ceremonies for Krause Stadium will commence after the game. 
Certain "spirited" events will begin on Friday and run through kickoff on Saturday. The Alumni Association will sell gold balloons at the pep rally, as well as during the day on Saturday. For one dollar, students can get their own piece of the gold. Balloons should be taken to the game. 
The tradition of hanging ban­ners out of dorm windows will be encouraged through a campus-wide banner contest. Entries should be hung from windows on Friday and left out through kickoff time. Judges will evaluate the entries during the day on Saturday and the winners will appear with their banners in a photo in The Ob­server. 

The Alumni Association will hold its usual pregame recep­tion in the Hospitality Room of the JACC on Saturday. Both Notre Dame and Michigan State fans are invited. 
The game itself should be full of excitement. At kickoff, fans will release their gold bal­

loons into the air creating a spectacular example of Notre Dame's school spirit. The Leprechaun will also make a surprising entrance into the stadium to celebrate the I 00 year anniversary of Notre Dame football. 
The start of a new tradition will occur at the end of Satur­day's game when the football team will walk over to the stu­dent section of the stadium and lead the student body in singing the "Alma Mater." It's sure to be a tradition carried on into the future. 
This weekend, and hopefully every one after it will once again show America that Notre Dame still has more spirit than 

Tops in Blue soafSouldO'ii Stii"Qe 
KIM YURATOVAC assistant accent editor 
T 
wo hundred years ago today a committee of "founding fathers" signed what was to become the most in­fluential document in the west­ern world. This week, there is a nationwide celebration hailing the 200th anniversary of the United States Constitution. Tonight part of the grandeur comes to South Bend with a performance by the United States Air Force's touring show, "Tops In Blue." 
The performing troupe is composed of 250 active-duty military members from all over the world. They perform an­nually to audiences of over 500,000 at more than 200 Air Force bases and supporting communities. In 1985, the group performed to a television audience of over 110 million Super Bowl fans. 
"Tops In Blue" has per­formed twice locally in the past two years . In December 1986, the group performed at Saint Mary's College for a combined university and community per­formance. Tede Almon, Chair­man of the South Bend Bicen­tennial Committee called the group "the purest expression of patrioti~youth in America today." In July, 1986, the group appeared at the South Bend Firefly Festival for the Performing Arts before an audi­ence of .3000. Firefly Festival Coordinator Jill Ross was im­pressed by the performance. "What a pleasure it was to have 'Tops In Blue' perform... we could all learn a lesson in the industry by watching your team work, setting up, performing, and striking the set." 

The organization was founded by Major AI Reil,ly in 
195.3 when Reilly, now a retired colonel, wanted to bring perfor­mances to the more isolated Air Force bases. 
The theme of this year's per­formance is "We Are The People," which revolves around the bicentennial of the U.S. constitution and the 4oth an­niversary of the U.S. Air Force. Performers act as representa­tives from the planet "Annoid" who visit earth to study our form of government. These aliens, although hailing from the 21st century, lack a govern­ment as sophisticated as ours, and hope to get some ideas from our constitution. Music and choreography from several eras accompany the aliens on "Tops In Blue" is only one of their trek through history. They the many activities planned by encounter everything from the the South Bend Bicentennial colonial beat, to bop, to Committee. A Bicentennial modern-day rap. Concert by the South Bend 
Symphony, a lecture on 

The performance is tonight "Religion and The Bill Of at 8 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. Rights," and and a Bicentennial Admission is free. Stamp cancellation are among the events scheduled for this month. 
The South Bend community is especially honored to host the bicentennial events since two years ago, it became the sixth city in the nation to be recognized as a bicentennial city. 



September 17, 1987 Scene-Page 3 


'The Big Easy': easy to watch 

ELIZABETH CORNWELL accent writer 

T 
he Big Easy" Is a romantic thriller that's easy to like. Its striking ·"Miami VIce" style color scheme and down-home cajun accents welcome the au­dience with a breezy Informality that's difficult to resist. But all that laid-back friendliness Is a veneer, covering a plot which revolves around gangland drug wars and pollee corruption. 
Movie review 
The Big Easy~ 
Dennis Quaid, following up his performance as a likeable reprobate in Joe Dante's "ln­nerspace" plays a likeable reprobate with a cajun accent. Quaid's homicide detective Is assigned the seemingly routine slaying of a mafia drug-runner. Breaking the routine, however, Is Anne Osborne, played by Ellen Barkin, a member of the district attorney's task force on police corruption, who is as­signed by her office to look Into the murder. 
The mafia rivalry crime 

~------~-------------------. 
~need someone with 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
the ronfidenceofaSll.l_'gOOil, the dedication of amarathoner andthe 


FROM: LEE'S BAR-B-QUE 
~ofanexplorer. 11 AM • 11 PM MON-WED 
\.\\· flf\'dJ J\·J\l'('t•rJ"-'''Iunt~·l'f ( ·.,11 11~ Jf 1·800·...2.. ·H5HO, ht IH 
11 AM -1 AM THURS 
11 AM-3 AM FRI-SAT
PeaceCorps.
n.r_..,_,.._,.fWf..., 

4 PM-9 PM SUNDAY You can count on Lee's for the "BEST" Bar-b-que 
drama and attraction-of­
opposites romantic develop­
ments which follow are pretty 
standard. Well done, and enter­
taining to watch, but not really 
out of the ordinary. 
What sets this movie apart 
from Its genre Is the gradual 
develpment of its police cor­
ruption subplot. As the movie 
gets going. we realize that our 
likeable hero Remy McSwain is 
a not -entirely -clean cop. 
First it's little things -he runs a 
red light; he parks illegally; he 
gets special treatment at a res­
taurant. And we wish uptight 
Annie could just relax and en­joy the atmosphere of New Or­leans, the big easy. Sooner or later, she's going to have to accept that down In the big easy they've got a certain way of doing things. 
Then we find out about Remy's part In "the widows and orphans fund," an organized system of police payoffs and kickbacks. Underneath all that oozing charm, there lurks an acceptance of extortion and corruption. And the central questions of the movie begin to surface. can anyone ever be 
just a little corrupt? When do good guys stop being good? 

Ellen Barkin plays assistant district attorney Anne Osborne, Investigating pollee corruption In New Orleans. 
CORKTOWNE 




UOUORS,INC. 
t\&'i's 1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
1"~~c;\&\ 

'"-•ST•A•TE-RO•A•D•2•3,•1•/4•Malli,;'-=F· MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET 
Busch Kegs $26.77 Busch $6.99 Pabst Blue Ribbon $6.99 

Seagram Coolers $2.99 Budweiser(long necks) $7.19 Bud Lite(long necks) $7.19 or n s· P k $4. 
NOW HIRING: 
FOR ALL POSITION call 277 2151 
• 
DON'S PREDICTION: ND 40 MSU 3 

Now many laws can be broken 
before It stops being okay? Quaid does a terrific job at playing the developing detec­­
tive. 111s portrayal of a man 
forced to confront deeply held assumptions and question his own integrity Is convlclng. His 
transition from a cocky, self­assured and slightly smarmy 
man-In-control Into an unsure man caught In a crisis of con­
flicting loyalties and beliefs works. Watching this complex performance makes watching 
the movie worthwhile. 
lie's backed up by an able cast, doing th.elr jobs with panache. Barkin gives a solid performance as a woman whose uncompromising prin­ciples are In sharp contrast to the heady sensuality of her romance with Quaid. Ned Beat­ty's supporting role as another policeman and father figure to Quaid deserves mention. 
All In all, "The Big Easy," will give you a slickly -produced, attention -grabbing. action ­packed adventure, with a pretty good plot and an intensely sexy love story, all accompa­nied by an opportunity to tackle some genuinely difficult ethical dilemmas. 


ChitChat. 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL accent writer 
S 
ylvester Stallone has taken over an entire floor plus 30 rooms in the Sodom (no kid­ding) Hotel in Israel. He's there getting ready to film "Rambo Ill" in the Dead Sea area. . . . Susan Dey is preparing a synd­icated special on AIDS as well as an AIDS videocassette for parents and teachers.... Fox Broadcasting is considering Pia Zadora and Linda Blair for reg­ular roles in their "Women in Prison" drama.... Cheech Marin just lost the starring role in Robert Redford's "Milagro Bean Field War" film. Unfortun­ately he didn't hear about his replacement until he was on a plane to New Mexico to begin filming.... Producer Keith Barish has begun casting for his movie version of "The Flintstones." Jim Belushi has been chosen to play Fred and Rick Moranis is a good bet to play neighbor Barney Rubble. 11owever, all rumors to the con­trary, Vanna White is not being considered to play Wilma.... Sean Connery is after the Oscar for his work in "The Untouch­abies" and has hired publicity firm PMK to help him promote his performance.... Delta Burke of "Designing Women" and Gerald McRaney of "Simon and Simon" intend to be married as soon as McRaney's divorce from his second wife is final.... The Motion Picture 
Association of America has threatened to give a fii'I'Tl an "X" rating for Its language alone. 

Director David Burton's "Patti 
Rocks," set for an October 
release, could be the first film ever to be branded "X" solely on the basis of language. . . . 
David Bowie and Mlck Jagger are getting ready for lead roles 
In a movie written by Richard 
Price ("The Color of Money") about competing nightclub owners. . . . Richard Gere is spending his days In Cedar Rapids, Iowa working on t.ls new movie, "Farm of the Year" for 11arvest Films. Although the city council r~ected the mm company's request to waive its parking tickets, Commissioner of Public Works floyd Bergen did offer Gere use of one of the city's five helicopters to commute to location shots... 
.(;~.. 
,
~ 20" Discount 
except sale items 

N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
September 1 7, ''1987 



Scene-Pages 4-5 
l 
I 
l 
l ~ 

South Bend derives not only its name from the Saint Joseph river but also much of its char­
.... 
1 
j j 
acter and identity. The river pro­

vides recreation in the form of rafting, kayaking and rowing; pleasure through the architec­ture and sculpture which line its banks. 
Photos by Suzanne Poch 
-



Scene-Page 6
September 17, 1987 





End of the line for The Smiths 
KRIS MURPHY accent writer 
T
hese are sad days for the fanatical followers of Manchester England's favorite sons, The Smiths. Johnny Marr has left the group. You may very well not give a hoot, but for some of us The Smiths are one of the few bastions of 

Girlfriend in a Coma 

The Smiths 
sanity left in this mess we call the 1980s. If anything, singer Morrissey's enigmatic, self­pitying, disillusioned, psyc­hopathic, wickedly funny lyrics tell us that someone out there is even more messed up than we are, and the compelling, guitar-driven melodies of Johnny Marr are a joy com­pared to the recycled sludge that most "guitar-pop" bands try to pass off as songs. 
The Smiths have been very 

STUDENTS ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO 

MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & 
DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. September's Leader: Fr. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Director of University Ministry 
Junior & Seniors -Wednesday, Sept. 23 
8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information: Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C. Fr. Paul F. Doyle, C.S.C. 
popular in Britain for the past five years or so and were on the verge of gaining mass ac­ceptance here. Now, however, Marr has left, saying he wants "to do things I can't do with The Smiths" while maintaining that The Smiths are still a great band and that there was no animosity in the breakup. 
Rumors have it that both Madonna and Bryan Ferry are talking with Marr about poten­tial ventures. Madonna? Gulp. Morrissey, for his part, began auditioning replacement guitarists in August and insists 
that The Smiths will carry on as soon as he finds one. 
English music magazines have quoted both Morrissey and Marr saying that a new album finished before the breakup should come out in October. Unfortunately, record company disputes may delay that album. 
So for now the only thing a Smiths fan can du is curl up with the new three song 12 ­inch called "Girlfriend in a 
Vocation Directors P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, ln. 46556 Phone: (219)-239-6385 

Coma" backed with "Work is a Four Letter Word" and "I Keep Mine Hidden." Because "Girlfriend in a Coma" is only available as an import, you may end up paying six to seven dollars for it. 
That's the bad news. The good news is that "Girlfriend in a Coma" is one of The Smith's five best songs ever. The music is the purest kind of pop as Marr's gentle strumming sets up the perfect atmosphere for Morrissey's hospital whisper delivery of the lyrics. "Girlfriend in a coma. I know it's serious, really serious" he sings, and then "I would hate anything to happen to her." He refuses to go in to see her and almost chuckles as he asks "Do you really think she'll pull through?" Strings come in for the chorus as in their "There is a Light That Never Goes Out," while Morrissey is yodeling in the background. Does he want her to live? to die? Maybe he thinks it's all a big joke. Whatever the song means, British black humor has never been this catchy before. The song is only two minutes long but you'll find yourself singing "Do you really think she'll pull through?" for days after you first hear it. 

The other two songs are pretty typical of The Smiths. Though "Work is a Four~Letter Word" is a cover, it's perfect for Morrissey and company with its message to dump everyday life and run off with someone. "I Keep Mine Hidden" was written 


WVFI TOP TEN 
.•.. <1• Big Decision That Petrol Emotion 
. 2. The One I Love R.E.M. 31HAlex Chilton Replacements .4.··Murderous Nitzer Ebb 
''~l:,:::::: '~1 0ut o{ Hand The Mighty Lemon Drops · ·#· 6. Misfit Curiosity Killed the Cat 
7. What's My Scene The Hoodoo Gurus 
8. Ahead Wire 

9. 
Let./t Be with You Belouis Some 

10. 
Communication Ipso Facto 


This chart compUed from the playlisb of WVFI-Af/1640 
.HS 

by Morrissey and Marr and seems to be a commentary on Morrissey's self-professed asexuality. "You force emotions to the fore," he sings, "but not for me, of course I keep mine hidden." Somebody's also doing some mean whistling on this track. 
Where will Morrissey and his lyrics end up without Marr's great music? Alas, it seems to me that The Smiths are dead. Go find this record and wear black for the next month. 
CHARLEVOIX PRODUCTIONS presents 
FRIDAY, 
SEPT. 25 
8:00P.M. 


NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. 

;:...





"··.;:0
. 

RETREAT 
"Sexuality, Intimacy & Spirituality" directed by Patricia Livingston 
TOPICS: 
Intimacy Homosexuality Sexuality: Primary Relationships Heierosexuality Genital Masturbation Loneliness Affective 
• 
How do I relate to God in the context of the gift of my sex ·ality? 

• 
How does intimacy in my life reveal God to me? 

• 
How do the yearnings of my life tell me about God's love for me! 

• 
How can I come to understand my ~exuality more broadl1,• and deeply? 

• 
How does understanding my sexuality free me I•J choose what is most life giving at this time in my life? 


When: Sept~mber 25 (6:30)-September 27 (noon) . Contact: Campus Min:stry Office (Bodin Hall) 239-5242 
Sign-up Deadline: September 18, 1987 
Cost: 12.00 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BOB!  

T1a1ksto you... itwortcs... for AU. OFUS •Unlliadwau  

WANTtD USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
f.ARLY AM OR t:Vt:NINOS 


' 

September 17, 1987 Scene-Page 7 


Movies 
Tonight the Student Union Board present., the Burt Lancaster! Kirk Douglas comedy adventure "Tough Guys" In the Engineering Auditorium at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. Admission Is $2. 
In the Annenberg Audlorlum tonight you can see "It Came from Outer Space." at 7 p.m. and "The Creature from the Black Lagoon" at 9 p.m. 
On Friday and Saturday the Indiana basketball drama "Hoosiers" will be shown In the Engineering Auditorium at 7, 9:15 and 11:.30 p.m. Admission Is $2. 
On Friday In the Annenberg "Last Tango In Parts starring Marlon Branda will be screened at 7 and 9 p.m. 
Also on Friday "The Philadelphia Story," the classic story of a spoiled heiress's lessons In humility starring Katharine Hepburn. Cary Grant and James Stewart. will be shown at the Morris Civic Auditorium at 7:.30 p.m. Admission Is $1.50. 

The Scoop 
University Park East Cinemas on Grape Rd. at 277-7.3.36 "The Untouchables" "No Way Out" "Nowhere To Hide" "Beverly Hills Cop II" "The Barbarians" "Can't Buy Me Love" 
Forum Cinema on U.S . .31 at 277­1522 "The Big Easy" "Dirty Dancing" "The Living Daylights" "Disorderlles" 
Town and Country on N. Hickory Rd. at 259-9090 "La Bamba" "Hamburger Hill" "Stakeout" 
Scottsdale Cinema In the Scottsdale Mall at 291-458.3. "A Prayer for the Dying" "Born In East L.A." 
100 Center Cinema In the 100 Cen­ter at 259-0414. "Dragnet" 
Art 



e;;J 

Continuing at the Snlte'Museum Is the "Life: The Second Decade exhibit located In the Print Drawing and Photography Gallery. The exhibit features many of the best known Images taken for Life Magazine be­tween 1946 and 1955. 
Currently at the South Bend Art Center Is the exhibit "The Artistic Heritage of South Bend: 1930·1970" featuring the work of 65 area artists. 
The sculptures of Yvonne Tofthagen will be on display at the Women's Art League Gallery In the Century Center. 
Beginning Monday, the Isis Gallery In Riley Hall of Art and Design will feature an exhibit of drawings en­titled "Accidents Happen" by Mary Lum. 

Immediately following the Michigan State Pep Rally on Friday night. the band Ipso Facto will play for a dance on the Stepan Center basket­ball courts. 
In exhibit at the Northern Indiana 
Historical Society Is "Under the 
Golden Dome," a historical exhibit 
chronicling a century of athletk: 
traditions of Notre Dame varsity 
sports. 
The South Bend Symphony Or· chestra opens Its 1987-88 season on Sunday at the Grace Methodist Church. The orchestra will perform American Accents by David Stock Mozart's Clarinet Concerto In A Minor and Le Borgeols Oentll· homme by Richard Strauss. The concert begins at 7:.30 p.m. 
The U.S. Air Force Tops In Blue performing troops will give a free concert In the JACC tonight at 8 
p.m. 

Billy and the Boingers: redefining rock 'n' roll 
I 
MIKE NAUGHTON Boingers," derives its strength many talents, Catt has pushed accent editor from the perfect harmony of its the art of head bangin' into four amazing personalities. new realms. While many rock t's only once in a great The guiding light of the band legends have died, Catt is the while that a band appears since their first single "Demon first to have repeated the feat on the music scene which is Drooler in the Sewer" has al­on separate occasions. Despite capable of redefining the very ways been the humble and his multi-fatalities, he still consciousness of pop. With staid song writel/tnanager twangs his tongue with the their current release, Billy and Steve Dallas--a true gentleman best that rock has to offer. the Boingers Bootleg. Billy and in an industry which needs the Boingers have proven such role models. He takes The unique ambience and themselves to be such a band. great pride in his past hits tone of the Boingers is the 
result of lead 'lectric tuba Opus Croakus' daring explorations

the Boingers Bootleg beyond the ordinary strictures of rock 'n roll. Croakus is the pioneer of a new form of heavy
Berke Breathed 

metal he calls "weighty brass." Croakus is living proof that real 
Formerly known as Death­such as1"Skateboarding to penguins do wear make-up. tongue, the fabulous foursome Satan," "Guillotine your par­Of course, no band would be from Bloom County, USA has ents," "Ciearasii Messiah" and complete without a solid literally turned the music indus­that classic battle cry of teens, rhythm section. Despite some try on its ear. Their explosive "Let's Roll Over Lionel Richie criticism that he is nothing debut fuses nco-punk in­with a Tank." Dallas says that more than a rabbit sex idol, strumental experimentation, "It's easy for me to write master skins-basher Hodge radical marketing. violent stage songs. It's hard to write good Podge fills his role admirably antics and an unprecedented ones." by laying down one of the nas­social consciousness. If Dallas is the brains behind tiest collections of bangs and 
The band, known to their the Boingers, then "Wild" Bill bumps around. friends simply as "The Catt is the soul. An artist of The single ''I'm a Boinger" is 


·BillY ~~,~ BOINGfRS 


destined to become a classic in enough, the Boingers have its genre but the real gem on developed a marketing glmic the band's release is the nip­which is sure to become a side "U stink but I love U." This standard for the eighties. In­poignant ballad of false ap­stead of presenting their single pearances and teenage betrayal in the traditional album sleeve, aptly illustrates the depth of they have enclosed it in a book sensitivity and thought that of comics by Berke Breathed. goes into the work of the These cartoons. apparently a Boingers, culminating when documentary. trace the story of Catt screamns out. "I hate your the band's conception, devel­polyester pantsuits/And your opment and subsequent greasy hair/And that stuff be­meteoric rise to stardom. tween your braces/And your Look out Europe; the future hairy derriere." belongs to Billy and the 
As if the music wasn't Boingers. 

-

September 17, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
Keg politics: survival of the fittest 
Question: What do you call it Don't misunderstand me. I'm assuming that you aren't when you crowd into a not advocating alcohol over­trampled to death, It will be dilapidated house with five consumption, but if you insist Monday morning. hundred other students, pay on going to an off-campus you Unle::.s, of course, you listen 
two dollars for a cheap plastic had better be prepared to alter to the·,tdvice of a veteran of cup, risk your life fighting to your mood and deaden your the party wars, a Machiavelli of get bad beer, acquire that beer senses significantly. If you keg politics --me, your humble after elbowing people for half don't, you won't make it narrator. an hour, spill on someone, get through the night. The only way to approach an In line again only to find out Now that I have revealed the off-campus party Is to recog­nize It for what it is, a battle zone. On this field of contest
Mike Naughton 


there is no room for the weak. the gentle or the sober. Only the strong will survive; only the ruthless will e'1ioy themselves. 
Victor's foot 

The following strategies will make your mission, getting to that the keg ran out, throw first secret of off-campus oeer­the keg, somewhat less your cup away on the grass bashes --that they make phone perilous:
outside and get arrested for booth stuffing seem civilized -­littering? 1 will let you in on another 1. Become the kegmaster: Answer: Socializing at Notre unpleasant reality --it is almost the kegmaster is the student Dame. impossible to get drunk at one who holds the tap to the keg 
Yes, friends, this Is the es­of these fiascos. "Impossible!" and determines who gets sence of the good weekend for you cry, "I am going to a party served; in other words, he or a Notre Dame party animal: tonight and I hear that they are she controls the destinies and overcrowded, pandemonious having 60 kegs." Ah yes, naive B.A.C of everyone at the party. debacles that are so unpleasant one, they are indeed having 60 The kegmaster is essentially a that you can only tolerate them kegs. Unfortunately for you god-like figure, and he knows 
if you get thoroughly crocked. they only have one tap for it. His supplicants offer up Of course, if you do get blitzed those 60 kegs which means continous chants of "do me up, you can think that you are that there will be 700 students dude" and "hey, me next, having a good time or at least trying to drink out of those huh?" Though the kegmaster forget about the whole thing sixty kegs one at a time. By the position is tactically superior to the next morning. time you get your first beer, any other on the 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

September 17, 7:00 p.m. 
the Library Auditorium 
ITEMS TO BE DISCUSSED INCLUDE HOW TO ACCESS MONEY FROM YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITY BUDGET, HOW TO APPEAL YOUR ALLOCATION, MER­CHANDISING AND CONCESSION STAND GUIDELINES, 
AND A PRESENTATION ON FUNDRAISING. THERE WILL BE A PENALTV IF YOUR CLUB OR ORGANIZATION DOES NOT HAVE AMEMBER IN AT­

TENDANCE 

-
-

party;battlefield, it is the most precarious because anyone who is larger a>n topple you. 
2. 
If you can't become the kegmaster, befriend him. A kegmaster is a good friend to have so do anything to win him over. Give him money, offer him sexual favors, pretend that you're on the SUB ticket com­mitee, tell him anything. 

3. 
Flirt with the kegmaster. If the kegmaster is a guy, act like a bimbo If the kegmaster is a girl, act like a football player. 

4. 
Fake a "house beer." House beer is when the student who lives at the house that is being destroyed by the party cuts to the front of the beer line. It's a territorial move, but that doesn't mean that you can't pretend that you are a resident. This strategy is effec­tive but be careful, people tend to get ugly if they catch you lying for beer. 


5. 
Bring your own beer. No don't. It's too tacky, besides everyone will hit on you for one. 

6. 
Arrive at the party three hours early. Things might not be hopping but you'll get a good head start on everyone else. 

7. 
Bring a doberman and pretend that the police have arrived. For more effect yell something to the effect that "the police are here and they brought Sister Mary Rosewater who taught you in first grade and she has a ruler!" 

8. 
Spread a rumour that there is a better party next door. Of course if you find these strategies to be too morally repugnartt, deceitful or just downright sneaky you could always go to a movie with a friend or do something normal for a change ... naaaaaah. 





The most successful college graduateshave auniform 

appearance. 
Dress for success. Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and you could graduate with the 
privilege of wearing the proud gold bars of a second lieutenant as well as a cap and gown. Army ROTC is the college electi\'e that gi\'es 
you an opportunity to learn, and practice, management skills. Experience leadership styles and motivational techniques. And gain 
the self-confidence that can spell success in any career, civilian or military. 
Start that career with the advantages only Army ROTC can give you. Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED??? Call Captain Domingo 239-6264 


--------~---------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 17, 1987 
The Observer page 7 
n.a.--Notre o.m.offlcle, located on INthird floOf of l.aFor1une Stu· dent c.nt.r, eccepb claalfled ..._,.Mrlg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ltlnJugll Friday. n.~SMit Mwy's offloe, located on the third floor of tt.gprCollge Center, ecceptaclaalftedaITom 12:30 p.m. unlll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next~ claaslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaslflada muat 
Classifieds be prepakl, either In peraon Of by mall. The charge Ia tO cenn par five ~perday. 
NOTICES  L FORSALE  1 GA FOR USC ·PLEASE Stoll YOURS TO ME1 CALL ""ALASKA"" £3007  PERSONALS  Class of 'B8 Thord-Thursday Bowlong Thursday September 17 9:30 Beacon Bowl THE TRADITION CONTINUES  TO THE GOOD lOOKING BLONDE who works the dosh line on South 01n1ng Hall MWF morn~ngs betore B·OO class  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 0 237-1949 H 277·B131 MARISSA'S TYPING. WORD PRO­ 197B Honda Wagon many new parts $650 or besl call 2BB-6240 al1e1 6  HELPII NEED 1 MSU STUD TICKET. WILL PAY BIG $$$$ CALL JOHN AT 1968  OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 AM U.S. 31 N .. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN  My life's a mess I waot tor you to pass I stand here at the bar I hold an empty glass  WHO ARE YOU ? reply on lhos column ·Your Jun1or Adm1rer HAPPY BIRTHDAY. DAVE BROCK· WAYI!I LOVE. A GUARD 12 GROUPIE  
CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 277-1051 DAY. 277-2724 EVE TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7-40B2  Couches. cha1rs. tables Very reasonable. Call Mrs Cooper after 6 00 272·60B5 WWaterbed.O·slze.heate(.mattress· pad.sode paddong.$125.277·1318  NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS FOR SISTER AND FRIEND CONTACT KRIS AT 2B4· 5418 I need MSU lix Call Mark 272·7497  WAKE UP!  sl I NEED FOUR TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE THE FAMILY IS IN TOWN 2  FROM LONG BEACH AND HER ROOMIES. CALLAGHAN!!! BEER MEl!!! Hotel Room lor ~1 8-19 vacant 520 a  
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·B997 Receove 55 oil 550 or more purchase of your 1ex1books al Pandora s Bookslore. localed on BOB Howard Sl al Noire Dame Ave We re open 7 days a week 10·00 am -5 30 Wtth. rece1ve an extra 10°o oft on pur­chases of used paperbacks (on slock) al Pandora s Bookstore. localed a1 BOB Howard Sl at Notre Dame Ave Were open 7 days a wee~ 10 00 a m.-5 30  Stereo AudiO MIXer.NUMARK model OM· 500.never used.S50neg .277-1318 Macmtosh 512K enhanced. lmagewr1ter pronter. mosc software. Call Clill a\4288. SENIOR TICKET BOOK lor all home games 271-0661 71 IMPALA $300 277·4576 ALPINE STEREO. COMES W1977 TOYOTA CELICA RUNS GOOD• $500 291-9425  PLEASE!III NEED AT LEAST 2 GA'S FOR BOTH BC AND ALABAMA.WILL PAY$$$$ !!I Call x1120 aller llpm GET RICH QUICK! Woll pay $90 lor 2 MSU GAs Call Melanoe al 277-3006 I NEED A MICHIGAN STATE TICKET GA OR STUD CALL JIM WEHNER 1935 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC GA'S. CALL FRANK ·3104 NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S. USC-NEED 1  NEED $5 babysilter needed durong msu game' my place or yours? call 5150 at smc NEED A RIDE TO READING PENN. OR PHILADELPHIA OR ALLENTOWN FOR FALL BREAK.. CONTACT KRIS AT 2B4-541B DESPAAATELY SEEKING SOMEONE wllh NO vo BC g.a."a SSS eventnga...288-3018 (Matt)  GA's AND 2 STUD OR 4 GA's. PAUL £2185. DESPERATELY NEED 2 MICH. ST GA'S CALL PAUL 283·3431 I NEED MSU, PURDUE, & ALL HOME GAME GA'S. 272-8306 Will beat any oiler on Mich. Stale sludenl ticket Call Christy 3B29 Need MSU lockets -Will pay dearly -Call 234·B377  noghl Call Kathy 2B3·3607 I also need MSU lox! Kathy. have good lome on Columbus Get lots of sun. from. all of your lovers Dlllonlteal Come oul to see BIG RED destroy and demoralize the ott-campus crome (in tootball that os) thos Sunday al tour The Dillon trad1t1on cont1nues .  
pm LOST/FOUND LOST-I losl my calculus notebook and text wh1le studytng at a MIChigan game ta11gater at Ann Arbor II found. please call TOM HAND al C3172 HELP! I LOST MY KEYS. DETEX. WASHINGTON STATE DRIVERS LICENSE. CALL 2971.  1979 MUSTANG COBRA. brown. 4 speed. turbo engone. amlm stereo cas· selte player. sunroot. 70.000 moles. Looks good. runs excellent 2B9-1586 TICKETS NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 BIG ss·s OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES• CALL 4579 I NEED PENN ST GA S1 MOM 1\ND DAD  STUD. CALL JOHN x1887 Need MSU GA tix. Will pay $$$. Call Chros 4006. NEED 2 STUDENT MICH. ST. TJXI CHRIS X4320 WANTED: USC GA"s WILL PAY SSSSS$$ CALL ELLEN 272-0806 Need 2 USC ga s. Call Jose al 2B3·3346  GOOD-LOOKING MEN: Thurs.. !V17 eal dinner in B-C lone of North at 5:00. We wan\ to scope you. Thanks' GRETA HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY only 1 more year LIVE IT UP Jo Paul Caolin Bart Jeanne Sue Ann Carolyn Cheryl  Mad Macs-Mclntosh Users Group F~rst meeting, 7 p.m .. Thursday. Sept 17 in Room 124 on Hayes-Healy. Hyper Card. Mullo-Finder. The Mac II and more' Mac experts. nov1ces. and new members welcome. HEAVY METAL RETURNS TO WVFI METAL MAYHEM SUNDAYS 7·9 LOOK -You've seen all of these really stupid ads about needing MSU lox. how someone·s pregnant mother and dyong sister need 2 GA"s or the studenl woll be cursed to hell. Seriously. folks. I need  We're hallway to St. Pal's Day! I NEED 2 MSU TIX. GA OR STUD. CALL 2034. GOLLY NEDS! Only 2 days lei\ untollhe arrival or Miss Colorado. Warm up those engones: of the Acura Legend that is. Stay luned for more... THANKS TO ALL MY FRIENDS WHO  
WILL PAY SSS X423B  PLEASE CALL SUE AT  SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS$$ HELP"' I"M DESPERATEII" I need 2 or 4 GA"S  Jeanne ··you're fickle  lois ol tix or rm DEAD MEAT. Somple as thai. I'm from Easl Lansing and I can'l  LET ME USE THEIR SILLY PLOTS LOVE. SMELLIE  
LOST  WOMAN S GOLD RING WITH  to any home tootball game atler MIG·  get any more from up there. So my fellow  
BLUE STAR SAPPHIRE STONE I WILL Bf SO HAPPY TO GET IT BACK THA'o I WILL NAME MY FIRST SIX CHILDREN AFTER THE FINDER REGARDLESS OF SEX PLEASE CALL CAROLE 271­0575 LOST"' A GOLD HERRINGBONE NECKLACE  WANTED GAS FOR ANY NO HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MATT AT 1404 WANT USC·ND FOOTBALL TIX. 213­422-2812 EARLY AM OR E'/ENINGS. NEED MSU TICKETS  HIGAN STATEIII!II"'!' II you can help. my Dad has tons ol money. seroously PLEASE CALL Jenny al x361 8 SSSSSSSSSSSSSS$$$$$$5$$$$ NEED  Spec1al delivery. A bumb. Were you ex­peeling one? A BUMB1!! AHHHHHH!!'· 3169 KATHLEEN' The Peachk1 Queen!! 1\"s so nice to have you back. Let's emote! We love YOU ... CHOC-O·LIT CHIP!!! Martha and Judolh  students. you are my last hope. Sorority girls. tamily. Domer brother"s roommates. lriends at MSU all need 'em. Call Hasbro at £349B or £3506 or my life os OVER !! $$HELP!!I$$ NEED MSU AND USC TICKETS STUDENT OR GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID £3592  ANN D. seeks attract1ve male w1th that special look in hos eye available October 2nd'!l! send resume and poclure 10 327 BADIN lnterv1ew by invitation only GOOD LUCKI!  
IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO STEPHANIE CALL ANYTIME AT 2B4­51B3 THANX 11 FOR RENT EFFICIENCY APT NEAR NO 259-4943 OR 234·3827 COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN· TALS 272-5959 Room lor rent Call Mrs Cooper 272­3004  GA or STU call carolyn x3B72 DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA"S CALL JENNY 2B4·4154 CHIEF NEED 2 MSU GAS CALL EXT 1609 WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA TIX NOT FOR SALE 120 1) 321· B269 9·5 EST Help Me" Please" Need 1 Moch Sl Stud or GA lox Woll PAY BIG SSSS call R1Ch X2050  MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL 284-4329 DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL ALYSSA 3736 SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL· lNG TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 257611 CAN YOU HELP?  DEAR PHIL IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU READING THE PERSONALS AGAIN GLAD TO HAVE YOU BACK. WITH DOMINANCE. THE OBSERVER REP OF THE HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB sl. What IS worse than bemg alone? I can't wa1t decades. Maybe it os already loo !ale for me. jb SCAMMASTEAS UNLIMITED Lookln' lor some Iovin'? Well, so Is sha!!l  Michigan can be beal but the Yellow sub can't quock delivery 272-hike ARE YOU SHOAT AND MALE? DO YOU HAVE A SEXUAL COMPLEX? COULD BRIAN M. BE YOUR CLONE? THEN MAYBE YOU TOO CAN PUT IN "'BAMBI-JIM"' PERSONALS... Blanche is back!! and she's hotter than ever. £4060 lor \he scoop. I"M YOUNG AND RESTLESS AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY. SEPT. 25. BUT THIS GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS RIDERS' COMING? CALL JODI AT 1282  oz the answer 1& no!! DOCior Paul CONGRATULATIONS !I! on School Love ya. The Gang K­LOVE VA! STUBBS HAPPY BIRTHDAY  Medocal  
FOR RENT FURNISHED BEAUTIFUL 3 BEDROOM APT 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 629B MOVE IN NOW' FREE RENT UNTIL 1025B7 Two separale 2Dedroom apart ments available each w1th kitchen. lull bathroom and large livong room Betls and dressers lurn1shed Renl mcludes all u\111\oeo Call 232·9239 lor appo1ntmen1 FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-36B42BB-0955 8 & 8 1n qwel country sell•ng JUSt 7 m1les tram campus Two mghl m1m 545 00 per noghl 16161684·37511or 1nlo or reserva­tions  I NEED 4 BC GAS CALL ROSS X1741 I MUST GET 4 MICH ST GA TIX-$45 PLUS HELP AMY £2574' Need MSU I1X 0 1 Stud and 2 GAs Call Kev1n 271-94 79 SSS Need 2 or 4 MSU GA s111 Call L1sa a\ 458B Need Boslon College GAs --woll pay SS" Call 4302 WANTED 3 SOUTHERN CAL TICKETS REAL MONEY' CALL 233 629B WANTED 2 USC Tox lor mom and dad call Kros 3099  Mom and Dad would love 2 GAs lo USC game Woll pay SSS• Call Kalhy at 2602 USC c PARENTS I NEED 4 GA"S DESPERATELY MONEY NO OBJECT CALL SEAN X3261 NFL AGENT NEEDS 2 USC TIX $$$$$ SEAN X3261 Woll trade 2 NAVY GA for 2 USC Call M1ke 2204 I NEED 2 GA"S FOR MICH ST. PLEASE CALL NED AT. 3515  II you're Interested, approach the "hormonal girl". She can be found this weekend at random campus bare, tallgaters, or the CASE CLUB. PLEASE HELPII!!I!I! To \he EE -So whal is the verdicl? Please don't leave me hangong -mmy neck can'! lake much more .... ( You only WISH ot was my neck ! ) Will you go or won't you !? BA Beautolul  HENRIETTA WAS HERE JUNIORS JUNIORS TONITE !It! All-YOU-CAN-EAT-PIZZA JUST 54 AT BARNABY'S 6:30 -8:30 p.m. COME DO DINNER WITH YOUR CLASS BEFORE A NIGHT OUT ON THE TOWN! PAUL KOLECKI YOUR BEAUTIFUL\!11!  MY DEAREST LOVE THE GANGLEA KICK OFF THE MSU WEEKEND TONIGHT AT UNCLE'S WITH blank generation Catch NO's Best Rock TONIGHT AT UNCLE'S blank generation TONIGHT AT UNCLE"S blank generatoon Boyfnend wan\ HERSHEY SYRUP? !VII Remember what I saod WT  
STUDIO. Furnoshed. 5225. 4 M1n !rom campus Call Don a\ 2B2-350B leave name and phone number or call 239· 65B9 on campus trom B-5  SS for your Moch St sludent IIX Call Jon 2006 I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN MONEY FOR 2 BC GA"S CALL JOHN AT 19BO  EVERYBODY PROMISES MONEY AND BEGS FOR TICKETS. l"m just going to tell it like ot is. I need as many GAs as possoble lo any home game lor my whole tamoly. I need B on all. bul wolllake \hem even 1 by 1. Call Dane at 1185.  Effervescent Tasteful Heartwarming If you can't figure it out. you don't deserve to know.anyway. But it is her week. So be noce  YOUR SECRET ADMIRER THE HE-MAN WOMAN HATER:, CLUB IS PROUD TO DECLARE THAT IT COM­PlETELY AND UNADUlTERATEOL Y SUPPORTS JUDGE BORK IN HIS  U need lois o MONEY? Cool! Caus I need lots o STATE lix stu$45 for GA's call MARK 157B CE Jusl wanted lo say lhal even lhough I don'l show it all the t1me I really care a  
WANTED  I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA"S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL  I need 1 mochigan stale GA or Sl1ix. call Peter at 3192  Don·r ask why. Jusr do ir  QUEST FOR A SEAT ON THE SU· PREME COURT. JUDGE BORK HAS SHOWN HIMSELF TO BE A TRUE  great deal about you. You mean alol to me. Mark  
HIRING All POSITIONS FULl TIME. PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE NICOLAS REST 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE 277·5666 APPLY IN PERSON' NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G A TICK· ETS WILL PAY SSS 'CALL MIKE X4340 AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE CALL 272· 040B BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK· DAYS. I NEED BC TIX ALOT THEY VE ALREADY BOUGHT PLANE TIX Please call Jom al 271·0763  STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE I NEED SEVERAL ALABAMA GA S OR STUDENT TIX. CALL ROONEY £234· 6394 NEED 2 MSU TICKETS FOR PARENTS PLEASE I'M DESPERATE""' CALL JIM X-3540 NEED 2 M S.U G A"S CALL PAUL [1116 OOPS! S1s 1s com1ng. lao. So I need another Michigan State ticket Call Moke at 271­ PAY BIG BUCKS for 2-4 GA's tor Navy game Call John 3179 NAVY NAVY NAVY Cash lor GA'I!Stud Todd-3754 HEY HOLMES! I need some 'BAMA TlX GA'S PREFERRED. GOOD MONEY call bill 1384 I NEED 1 M S.U. GA ANQOR I STU· DENT TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 2B3·1661 Need GAs lor all home games. Woll pay bog S Call John 1 B37  (Sorry. dear. bul "'stunning and tonal"' just didn't lit) Well MIKE. now thai you're 21 you need no longer wonder why we chose you as a roommate' WAAAH' Happy B·day. Rich and Shawn Thwip. Thwip RIDE NEEDED TO OHIO COLUMBUS OR ATHENS.AREA WKND OF !¥.!5 KRISTEN £1759 LAW STUDENT SORRY I WAS SMOKING. SORRY I WAS BOMBED  AMERICAN AND A REALIST WHEN IT COMES TO THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN AMERICAN SOCIETY HAIL BORK ........ ..... . .. ... What's \he purpose of a Thu-rsday n~ght unless you end up face down or on your back? blank generation featuring Rick Carton tonlghl at Uncle's A liHie bit of uh-huh and a whole lot ol oh yeah blank generation featuring Rick Carton tonight at Uncle's  BELOVED JANE, I AM NOW CERTAIN THAT I CAN NOT LIVE WITHOUT YOU. YOU ARE IN MY EVERY THOUGHT, DREAM, AND BREATM. MY EMO­TIONS TOWARD YOU HAVE BLOs­SOMED INTO AN ETERNAL FLOWER OF LOVE. YOUR FAITHFUL SERVANT, DICK NOVENA TO ST. JUDE 0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR. GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES. NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST. FAITHFUL INTERCES­SOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPE· CIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED.  
Potter needs ass1stant Prefer applicant w11h one clay course and or a strong 1n1ere01 20 hours a weok. llo<~ble to lol your schedule Star\ a\ $3 75 Call 277· 1341 Anyone goong home 10 Indy or Conconnalo the weekend of Sop I 25? I love on SE lndoana and need a rode Wolling lo share gas money Call Melissa at 2750 I need Penn Sl GAs call Marty-1 050 WANTED: One Mich. Slate Tlckotl lor little alater who haa never a..n N.D. game. Will pey Sl Call 2n·3254.  0765 DESPERATELY NEED 3 MSU TICK· ETS. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 4259. THANKS' mom and LITTLE SISTER have never l>een to NOTRE DAME. Comong on OC­TOBER and need lockels for e1\her game.(Can you hear the voolons? Well then can you hear the sound ot BIG BUCKS? My Mom is a pogeon.l Call JOE at 3642 or MIKE at 3656. NEED 2 MSU TIXS CALL X22B7  AND SHE"S COMING TO THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME WITH DAD SO, I NEED TWO GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE I also need BOSTON COLLEGE GA·a and Student tlx II you want cash lor your extras. call Sieve al 232-9816 I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET PLEASE CALL GINA-289·560B DESPERATELY need a student ticket lor MICH ST. Will trade for any other game or pay $. Call Jenny al 212B. Woll pay $30 for 1 stud. ticket lor Mich.St. Call Rob 272·B689  TOO·ONL Y BECAUSE I FORGOT YOUR NAME. GO OUT. IT'S THURS. TRENT AND SEAN. IT'S YOUR FIRST PERSONAL OF THE YEAR. WILL YOU BE PLAYING DARTS AT THE COM· MONS THIS WEEKEND? I'M BACK SO LET'S GET TOGETHER. DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA"S FOR USC. CALL LINDA AT 284·5406 slackers-Hrom re)l street to ann artx>r worst ever' dutch solranco·ldid you gel \hose lovebites in ann amor? whal a nice jewish  MIKE DEBOT WELL, BASICALLY, TODAY IS YOUR 21al BIRTHDAY... WHICH MEANS YOU'RE BUYING THE BEER, RIGHT? YES YESI...WAH! YOU KNOW WHO WE ARE. P.S. CAN WE BORROW THE CAR?! TO JIM, THE EGOIST IT'S A CASUAL, CON~STENTLY TEMPORARY PLATONIC RELATIONSHIP! DID I GET THAT RIGHT? LOVE, BAMBI N D WINDOW POSTERS' N D WINDOW POSTERS! N 0 WINDOW POSTERS'  TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE AND. FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART. I HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE HELP ME IN MY PRESENT AND URGENT PETI· TION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED SAY 3 "'OUR FATHER"S. 3 "HAIL MARY"'S, AND 3 "GLOAIA"S FOR 9 CONSECU· TIVE NIGHTS PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE. PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID AMEN. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL  
The 1-. lhe proud. The Marone Wolhoul A Dale I Modshopman Forst Class "Koller" Kelleher. deaperalety need a dale (prelerably lem.alel lo \he Navy Ball. Please can me at 283·2281 PART TIME SALES PERSONNEL NEEDED IMMEDI,TELY AT THE PEACOCK. A WOMEN'S APPAREL SHOP. IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL EVENINGS. WEEKENDS. AFTER· NOONS PlEASE APPlY AT THE STORE.  HELP"' I KNOW YOU"RE SICK OF DES· PERATE PlEAS FOR TICKETS. BUT IVE JUST GOT TO HAVE TWO STU· DENT OR G.A. TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. PLEASE CALL CAROLE AT 27Hl575. I need 1 stud tick to the Navy game' Will pay SSS or beer. cal Marl< F.( 1422) WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CAU KEVIN 315-33. 52!14.  NOT GOING TO BE HERE FOR USC? PUT YOUR MIND AT EASE AND UNLOAD THAT TICKET NOW' CALL DENISE C2494 NEED 2 MSU TIX! KEVIN 271·0579 HELP' I NEED 1 8C STUD. TICKET· PLEASE CAU JULIE 3512. I NEED MICH.ST. GA'S 1741 MIKE  boy' mission accomplished. karen ludwog goes to ann amor·tthis isn't laor. everyone os mashong here bul me. i just walked 50 miles lo find a party. I hat was really cool when you pulled up your shirt in charteysl Haol Ann A. \he new Love Bandot of Holy Cross. Michican wtU never be 1he same. Love. THE FLASHERS'  HELLO TO TME AUSTRIAN DUNGEON RAT! It -• nice to ,.lk to you lor all ol 30 NCOnda on S.turday night-call apln aomallma and to. aure to aend ua your ADDRESSI! WE MISS YOU!!! LOVE, ·the Dungeon Rars  Top Ten Reasons to Jotn Females Agaonsl Guys . (lrom our home oHoce at SMCI 10. Thetr bottom hall oa theor only redeemtng quahly 9.You'll get your own pitcher. 8. Frank Pinn 7. The Idiot (gollha1. Beel?)6. You won·t expect any double rings. 5. They send illoterale leHers when you breal< up wrlh lhem 4 Date-rape. 3. They'll trap you and then leave lhe country. 2. Courtney •• a mern· ber 284-4152 (gollhal. Napes'll They don'l want a relabonahop bul they dor!"1 want to be good 1-erihe<.  - 

-

·------~----------·------~ 
~,______p..ag_e_a________ ------------~--~e Obsewer 
Thursday, September 17, 1987 

• 


Strike seems likely, according to Donlan 
Associated Press have any effect before the NFL players Association strike 
NEW YORK -The chief deadline of next Tuesday. negotiator for NFL owners, On Tuesday, the NFLP A pre­calling the latest proposal by sented Hie owners with its the players union "very, very latest proposal for settlement discouraging," said Wednes­of the dispute, in which the day that without mediation, a union moderated its demand players' strike next week is "a for unrestricted free agency to very good possibility." one that would make players 
Jack Donlan, the executive free agents after they had 
director of the NFL manage­played in the league for four ment Council, said at a news years. conference that the proposal submitted by the players on Upshaw, the NFLPA's exec­Tuesday would cost owners utive director, called the pro­$200 million above the figures posal "a step forward in the contained in their proposal. areas that we feel can bring a And, he said, that is without clear and fast conclusion to this taking into account the union's collective bargaining demand for free agency. process." 
He also said he would like to resume negotiations, but only But Donlan dismissed it as with a mediator or only face­little more than a variation on to-face with his union counter­the original union proposal, part, Gene Upshaw. first put on the table April 20. 
The Management Council also disclosed it has filed with "A cursory look at the pro­the National Labor Relations posal showed that it was little 

The Observe11Greg Kohs Reggie Ward (83) celebrates a Tim Brown touch-Is one of Marty Strasen's topics In the Football down reception at Michigan. The senior receiver Notebook on the back page. 
Board an unfair labor practice more than a restatement of r\X-e;:;:~~.:.::::::;~·:·~~<J&"!~~~"'JJM~..,.;:a.~'~':\!>:8:·~;-:;~~~~ complaint against the union, their opening proposal with a accusing it of refusing to bar­few cosmetic changes," Don­gain in good faith. Council offi­lan said. "It was a very, very 
iI "PARTY WITH THE PLAID" I ~
cials conceded, however, that discouraging proposal. In the action was little more than laymen's terms, it's a cynical a token gesture that could not thing." " I
I SMC -StudenVAiumnae Tailgater I 
In addition, sophomore ful-Saturday Sept. 19 10a.m.-2p.m. 1Injuries lback Anthony Johnson suf-L Haggar College Center Terrace I 
fered a minor ankle injury !Ill 
against the Wolverines, but will Free pre-game food. ~ 
continued from page 12 

be able to play against ~ .. ~-;,~~~~-;~~;~-~~~~:li;~~-~!I~I;I~•;IJ;ll~iJ~lX~M~M~tt~:lllli;":•:•:•:r.t:d~
the l'i:~;;~~~:r&:~ll!i).S~...~:;~:>.!'~:.;~;;~~ ...


;'"~\:1'.~mtl;'r~·::~~~~~:~:~·~;~~;
Spartans. 
least four weeks with partially­"We paid a big price at Mic­torn knee ligament suffered at higan," Holtz said. "But we'll Michigan. fill the ranks and keep march­
ing. Somebody will come to the Outside linebacker Frank forefront until Braxston and 
Starns is doubtful for Saturday, Brandy are ready again." and is expected to be out seven Fifth-year senior Marv to 10 days with a thigh strain Spence will start in place of he suffered at Michigan. Wells. 

BEACON BOWL 

BAR & RESTAURANT WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after 9:00pm & All day Saturday 
IF YOU CAN•T READ IT...
& Sunday. 

HOW CAN YOU LEARN IT?
NDIST. MARY'S STUDENT DISCOUNT RATES 
It's back to school time and Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical wants to take care of
4210 Lincolnway West 

your vision needs this semester. We're Indiana's largest vision care provider and we can put that expertise to work for you. Please use the coupons below. They
2..J4-47o7 

cover the vision care products and services you'll need for your schoolwork. When 
you have a vision problem, there's someone you can turn to. Dr. David Tavel's 
Premium Optical. 


Campus Bible Fellowship Annual Hay Ride 
Fri., Sept. 18 5:.30 p.m. 

Please present coupon at time of purchase. All offers not valid with other offers or Campfire, Hobo Roll-ups, Fiddle Music. 
-
on sale items or previous orders. Offers expire September 30, 1987. and Blbie message All are welcome Call 277-8471 for info. 

Soutb Bend Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley 
or 

meet at 19525 Pendlc Rd. north of campus 
Broadmoor Plaza K-Man/Martin Center 
across from Sccttsdale Mall next door to Oleo DruR
at 5:.30. 
291-4000 258-5000 





-


Thursday, September 17, 1987 The Observer page 9 





Sports Briefs .. 
SMC gymastics will have practice today from 5:30-7:30 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Obser­ver 
The Crew Team, men's and women's, varsity and novice will have a mandatory meeting for all members in room 204 O'Shaughnessy, tonight at 7 p.m. -The Obser­ver 
The J.V. soccer game against Goshen scheduled for tonight has been changed to Saturday, at 10 a.m. on Alumni Field. -The Observer 
The Alpine Club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 5 p.m. at 19117 Cleveland Road. Rides will leave the main circle at 5 p.m. and dues should be paid. For more information, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
TheSquashClubdeadlineforduesistoday.Payment will ensure a spot on the ladder as well as other benefits. Remit payment to Philip Lau ~t 240 Fisher. -The Observer 
DeBerry 
continued from page 12 
her last three years at Homewood-Flossmoor High School in Illinois. She's also qualified to B-Level Olympic Development Field Hockey Camps twice. After her high school senior and college fresh­man years, she played on one of the four AAU Junior Olympic Field Hockey teams. In 1985, she and fellow Notre Dame teammate Caroline Berezny were on the team that won the AAU Tournament. 
In the future, this senior sci­encebusiness major is inter­ested in applying to MBA school andor pursuing a career in a pharmaceutical, chemical, or health-related industry. 
In the meantime, DeBerry will continue to contribute to Irish field hockey. She is co-
Q: Will the BIG RED be put on probation after this year's 
DILLON PEP RALLY? u~(\d 
~-~>V s\W •\))~ 6\~(\
A: At this point...we don't know. 
f(e~ 6.-;P 

Thursday -8:30 in front of N.D.'s only Fraternity. 

A GALA EXTRAVAGANZA! 
Featuring: Mark Green, Corny Southall, Dean Brown, Tony Rice, Jeff Kunz, Knute Rockne, Dancin' Irish, and Dillon's very own BOOM-BOOM GIRLS. 




Coupon for one FREE Ride on the Buzz Bus. 
Friday and Saturday Nights 12-3 am 
Schedule 
Campus View' 
Five Points

Senior Howard&. N.D. :vtaln SMC Library Turtle Creek Club St. Louis Apartments Circle Hoi)! Cross Circle (I~ & Vaness)
(Goodwill) 

12:00 12:03 12:07 12:10 12:14 12:18 12:22 12:25 12:.10 12:33 12:37 12:40 12:44 12:48 12:52 1255 
1:00 1:03 1:07 1:10 1:11 1:18 1:22 1:25 
1:30 1:33 1:37 1:40 1:44 1:48 1:52 1:55 
2:00 2:03 2:07 2:10 2:14 2:18 2:22 2:25 
2:30 2:33 2:37 2:40 2:44 2:48 2:52 2:55 


25¢ 25t 
captain this year with goalie 
M.J. Beetal. 

"I'm really enjoying the team this year,'' DeBerry said. "Everyone's very competitive and this helps to bring out the best player in each of us. Being captain encourages me to stay on the ball. I'd like to improve my passing and be more aware of my teammates around me. As a team we need more con­sistency in our play. 
"I expect as the season goes on that improved teamwork will improve our success. I'd like to see the team have a strong finish. It'd be a great way to end my Notre Dame career.'' 
But for now, Benet DeBer­ry's sights are on Friday's game. 
"After two disappointing losses, a victory would really help get us on track and boost morale," she said. 
• 

team to an 8-5 decision over Pittsburgh last night. See National League roundup below. 

NL roundup 


Cards, Mets match victories 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -John Tudor pitched eight-hit ball for 7 2-3 innings and Tony Pena's two­run double capped St. Louis' four-run third inning as the Cardinals beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 8-5 Wednesday night. The win kept the Cardinals one and a half games ahead of the New York Mets in the National League East race. 
Tudor, 7-2, survived two solo home runs by Mike Diaz and was relieved by Ken Dayley in the eighth inning. Tudor is 5-l since coming off the disabled list July 30 after breaking a bone in his right knee in April. 
With the Cardinals leading 2­1, Ozzie Smith walked to lead off the third against Doug Drabek, 8-12, and moved to second one out later on Willie McGee's single. Terry Pendleton's grounder moved up the runners before first baseman Diaz threw wildly to Drabek covering first on John Morris' hard-hit ground ball, allowing both runners to score. 
Diaz was charged with an er­ror when Drabek was unable to hold his off-line throw. Former Pirates' catcher Tony Pena then made it 6-2 with a two-run double to left. 
Mets 10, Expos 0 
MONTREAL -Len Dykstra hit a grand slam and Darryl Strawberry added a two-run homer to support the three-hit pitching of Dwight Gooden as the New York Mets routed the Montreal Expos 10-0 Wednes­day night. 
The victory kept the Mets one and a half games behind first­place St. Louis in the National League East. The third-place Expos fell four games off the pace. 
Gooden, 14-6, struck out 11 and walked two as he pitched his sixth complete game, third shutout of the year, and 16th shutout of his career. It was the 35th time in his four-year career that Gooden has struck out 10 or more batters in a game. 
The Mets scored three runs on wild pitches, two by Montreal starter Charlie Lea, 0-1. 
Strawberry was hit in the ribs by a Joe Hesketh pitch in the second inning and was removed from the game in the fourth. He was taken to the hospital for precautionary X­rays. 
Giants 7, Astros 1 
SAN FRANCISCO -Dave Dravecky pitched a four-hitter and Will Clark hit two two-run homers Wednesday as the San Francisco Giants beat the Houston Astros 7-1 for their fifth straight victory. 
The Giants took a seven and a half game lead over idle Cin­cinnati in the National League West and the third-place Astros fell eight and a half games be­hind. 
Phillies 8, Cubs 5 
PHILADELPHIA Jeff Stone's three-run pinch double off reliever Lee Smith capped a seven-run Philadelphia seventh inning to lift the Phillies past the Chicago Cubs 8-5 Wednesday night. 
Trailing 4-1, the Phillies put together their biggest inning of the season, sending 11 men to the plate and taking advantage of three straight walks by Smith, including Greg Gross with the bases loaded. Stone, pinch hitting for winning pitcher Mike Maddux, 2-0, opened the inning with a walk. 

National League 
Eaot 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. Louis  85  59  .590  
New Vorl<  84  61  .579  1.5  
Montreal  81  63  .563  4  
Philadelphia  73  72  .503  12.5  
Chicago  70  74  .486  15  
Pittsburgh  69  76  .476  16.5  
Weer  
San Francisco  eo  66  .548  
Cincinnati  72  73  .497  7.5  
Houston  71  74  .490  8.5  
Atlanla  62  82  .431  17  
Los Angeles  61  83  .424  18  
San D1ego  60  as  .414  19.5  

Wednellday'a Reeults San Francisco 7, Houslon 1 New York 10, Monlreal 0 Philadelphia a. Chicago 5 St. Louis a. Pittsburgh 5 San Diego 3, Atlanta 0 
-

,.....--------------------~------·--~------------~--­
Thursday, September 17, 1987

page 10 The Observer 


ar ~··. Colts preparing for strike 
. A\ , 
· ,...;rl ·. Associated Press "We are offering $1,000 to problems finding prospects for
I 
free agents out there ... in case a 45-man replacement roster.

I I INDIANAPOLIS -The In­of a strike to field a team," he "We've signed a tremendous I dianapolis Colts are putting to­said. "It's pretty much just an amount of guys in the last 24 l gether a team of free agents option that we have the rights hours," he said, adding that 
I and waiver victims to replace to them to play for us this some are players who made itI striking players if there is a year." to the final cut during trainingI walkout next week, General The NFL players Association camp earlier this year. I I Manager Jim Irsay said Wed­has set Tuesday as a strike date "The players who were in 
nesday. 

if the union and management training camp obviously know t "We are hoping to avert a cannot agree on a new con-the system and can get ready 
~ strike, obviously. We're getting 
tract. to play quicker. For the obvious

I 
prepared for that possibility, 
In the .meantime, Irsay said reasons, they're the ones we're 

llo though," he said. the Colts are not having any looking at," he said. I 
I I Now you can turn your favorite photo
I 
into your favorite poster-and get $2.50
! 
~ ., off Champion Authentic Sportswear. 
t 
t 
Brighten your sorority or fraternity house. Dress up your dorm room. Hang them around campus. Or uset 
them as big gifts for family or friends. 12" x18" only $12.95 20" x 30" only $15.95 Just send us your favorite 35 mm nega­
tive, slide or print. We'll send you a crisp, colorful KODAK Poster Print in your choice of two super sizes. KODAK Poster Prints make your best times in school big times! 
And with each KODAK Poster Print ordered through October 16, 1987, we'll include a coupon worth $2.50 off any Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at $10 or more at your partici­

Jeff Sellers, 7-8, gave up three pating college bookstore.
Associated Press runs on seven hits in five-plus Take advantage of this special, limited­TORONTO -Jimmy Key innings for Boston. time offer. Order your KODAK Poster Prints today!
pitched a six-hitter for seven innings and Tony Fernandez had three hits and three runs White Sox 13, Twins 10 batted in, leading the Toronto CHICAGO -Harold Baines Blue Jays to a 7-0 victory over doubled home a pair of runs to Baltimore Wednesday night, highlight a five-run fifth inning, the Orioles' ninth consecutive then hit a two-run homer in loss. Chicago's seven-run sixth as 
Key, 17-6, struck out four, did the White Sox beat the Min­not walk a batter and got the nesota Twins 13-10 Wednesday Orioles to hit into three double night to sweep the three-game plays. Mike Boddicker, .10-9, series. gave up 10 hits and seven earned runs in 5 1-3 innings. It marked the first time since 
Toronto scored three runs in Sept. 25-27, 1979 that the White the sixth inning for a 7-0 lead. Sox have beaten the Twins Fernandez singled home two three straight games. Min­
runs and later scored on a nesota is clinging to first place single by George Bell, who had in the American League West. two RBI to increase his major league-leading total to 124. 
Angels 6, Royals 4 Brewers 5, Yankees 4 KANSAS CITY-Bill Buckner 
NEW YORK-Glenn Braggs' had three hits and drove in two seventh-inning triple broke a 4-runs and Ruppert Jones had 4 tie and Ted Higuera won his two RBI as the California An­sixth straight start as the Mil­gels beat the Kansas City waukee Brewers defeated the Royals 6-4 Wednesday night. New York Yankees 5-4 Wednes­day night. Greg Minton, 4-2, got the vic­
Braggs tripled off reliever tory in relief of starter Chuck Tim Stoddard, 4-3, highlighting Finley as the Angels' Bob a three-run rally in the seventh. Boone caught his major league 
Higuera, 17-9, allowed six record-setting 1,919th game. hits, including homers by DeWayne Buice went 2 1-3 in­Bobby Meacham and Don Mat­nings for his 16th save despite tingly. Higuera walked three allowing a bases-loaded walk to 
---,

and struck out six while pitch­George Brett in the ninth in­ing his 13th complete game, ning. ijeA, I want to order KODAK Poster Prints. For I five of them in winning his last each poster send me one Champion coupon worth $~.50 I six decisions. American League off any item of Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at I 
$10 or more at my participating college book store. I 
East
Tigers 4, Red Sox 1 

w L Pet GB Special Poster Print offer is good only through October 31, I
DETROIT -Jack Morris Detroit 88 57 .607 
1987. I 

toronto 57 Milwaukee 81 65 .555 7.5
pitched a three-hitter and Alan 88 .607 
Trammell drove in two runs New York 80 65 .552 8 I with a homer and a double 75 18.5 NAME I
Boston 69 .479 Baltimore 62 83 .428 26
Wednesday night as the Detroit Cleveland 56 91 .381 33 I Tigers beat the Boston Red Sox West 
I
SCHOOL

4-1, sweeping the three-game M1nnesota 77 70 .524 series and staying even with Kansas City 73 73 .500 3.5 IMPORTANT: Take your original 35 mm color negative, slide or color I Oakland 73 73 .500 
3.5 print to your college store offering KODAK Processing. This request I
the Toronto Blue Jays in the California 70 76 479 6.5 
form must accompany your order in a KODAK Processing Envelope. 1

76 6.5 Seattle 68 77 .469 8 Coupon requests without orders will not be honored. Sportswear must 
Ch1cago 64 81 441 12 be purchased by November 30, 1987. I 
American League East. Texas 70 .479 
Morris. 18-8, who didn't allow 

{When a print is submitted, a copy negative I a hit for the first 5 1-3 innings, Milwaukee 5, New York 4 
Wednesday's Results 
-
Seattle 5. Cleveland 3 Detro•t 4. Boston 1 
allowed one unearned run, 
walked two and struck out four Toronto 7, Baltimore 0 Ch1cago 13, Minnesota 10

while pitching his 12th com­u ~~ l~i
California 6, Kansas City 4plete game. Texas 4. Oakland t 

L------------------------------~ 
-
Thursday, September 17, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
-. 

Campus · 
9:30-11 a.m. Seminar led by John Phillips, a former LIFE photographer will meet will all interested students. Second floor photography studio, Riley Hall of Art and Design 
4 p.m. Civil engineering seminar series, "Screening Study for On-Site Biological Remediation of Soils Contaminated by Coal-Conversion Residuals and By­Products," by Dr. Asher Brenner, ND. Room 258, Engineering Board Room, Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:30 p.m. Lecture by Dr. Gerd Langguth of the University of Bonn-West Germany, "What's With the Younger Generation in Germany Today?" sponsored by modern & classical language department, 124 Hayes Healy 
6-7 p.m. Lecture by Fr. Tom Stella, "Family Ties: Making the Break From Home," sponsored by Campus Ministry, Room 11, Holy Cross Hall, SMC 
6:45 p.m. "No Means No" lecture series, ''Children are for Loving, Not Abusing," by Pat Rissmeyer, sponsored by CARE, Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
7-9 p.m. Life Film Series: 3-D Night, 7 pm: "It Came From Outer Space," 9 pm: "Creature From the Black Lagoon," Annenberg Auditorium 
8 p.m. South Bend's Bicentennial of the Constitution committee presents the Air Force "Tops in Blue," which represents the best entertainers in the Air 
Force, ACC Basketball Arena, Free  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame Veal Grinder Fried Perch BBQ Pork Loin  Saint Mary's Pizza Deluxe-Cheese Pizza Pork Sukiyaki over Rice BBQ Chicken Deli Bar  

Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
Comics 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Beard parts 6 Gr. portico 
10 Hairdo for short 14 Long-legged 
bird 15 A-one 16 Wild OX 17 Climbing plant 18 "-keep 
fallin~ ..." 20 Helena's state 22 Heckles 23 NC school 24 Shamrock 
land 25 Dressed 28 Old 30 Verb form 34 Move rapidly 35 Noah's eldest 
son 36 Presses 

37  Upright  
39  Disburden  
41  Anglo-Saxon  
laborers  
42  Frighten  

43 Manipulates 
fraudulently 45 So-so grade 46 Small group 47 Author 
Sholom 48 Sea bird 49 Too bad! 51 Goodbye 53 Experts 56 Sports 
competitor 60 Incidental 62 Extreme 63 Sandarac 64 Japanese 
receptacle 65 Measuring 

device 66 Muscle health 67 Headliner 68 Donkey sounds 
DOWN 1 Tiller 2 Exchange 
medium 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
M€ANWH/U OIJf-' HfRO /.IICKIN& II SCRIPT Of?. STORY. IS CI/U.£1? tJPON TO WIN& If rr?f ~5Uf?€. S ON THt · l?f &ONNfl VOIP MY 1/?tA I KNOW IT LESS£[ .... -~ ~. ~~f"~:~~~ .. rll~u.,Eq:l_~ \'  HOtY Cd/11 / !T'J JIMMY H()ff~ /KilliN& 111~ toC/1 NtSS MONJTeK / If'S Cf(AS!fiNG !Nr?J AN Aft<­__,_ · LINeR.' (1/.f. ..  NO NO NO ... WH6Rf'j 7H£ !KONIG 7~NjtON 10f!Cfll 1HINK TOf!Cil' I  

Mark Williams 
TH/5 IS CWE TIM£ IH 6LA/J IH NOT FRIENP5 WIT/I
TH£ S.U.B. T/(/({T ·-hl<'l7JID,MOui 
/ 
1987 Tnbune Med1a Serv1ces. Inc 
09/17/87
All R1ghts Reserved 
3 Middle East 
country 4 Leased 5 Purloin 6 Unknown 
person 7 "-Skylark" 8 Expressed a 
belief 
9 "Lou Grant" 10 Pals out West 11 Chemical 
compound 12 Lasso 13 Church service 19 Gods 21 Ark designer 25 Wave top 26 Stagger 
27  Lend  - 
(listen)  
29  Arab princes  
31  The present  

32 Snide look 33 Ger. city 35 Pittsburgh 
player 
Far Side 
"T AleE s "I"
I R A 0 R E A R M TA
A H A B P E R U A R 0 E B C U B E s L E A z rviire~ t 
r HLN_ r u r -T 
A DIS 
D D SE­
-·W A L E
D E.SII-~~A NID
E V A N A E 
LILIT PILA 
A p T A V·,W.~ T 
SIW 
R T 
A N ElM I C ~ 
ICIA 
0 N 0 A -A 
S K S olu 
ST-
w0 0 l iJJ.!I!L~ Is " E ' 
A N N A G 0 T T 0 M A T H CITY EMEER AILAE S T 0 A S A N T A N 0 T A 
09117187  
38 Animal  52 Pollex  
40 Autocrat  53 Castle feature  
44 Ind. mountain  54  Height: pref.  
pass  55 Read quickly  
47 Yield  57  Miss  Kett  
48 More lanky  58  Canasta card  
50  Architectural  59 Corn units  
ridge  61  Gun gp.  
Gary Larson  

Flamingo toughs 
Student Union Board presents 


7:00, 9:00, I I :00 pm 
TOUGH 

Wednesday ~ Thursday 
GUYS 

Engineering 
-

Auditorium 
No food or drink allowed. 
II 


Sports 
Thursday, September 17, 1987
page 12 

IH soccer begins; Irish defeat Ramblers
Hoobers tough again 
Special to The Observer By MARK KOWALSKI J.V. program to serve this func­
CHICAGO -Zanette Bennetttion.
Sports Writer 
had 16 kills to lead the NotreEach team plays a six-game Dame volleyball to team to aThe men's interhall soccer schedule, using NCAA rules sweep of Loyola, 15-3, 15-6, 15­season begins Thursday, kick­with a few minor modifica­13. The Irish are now 5-2 on theing off what should be an excit­tions. The top two teams in season.

ing season. In past years, the each of the four divisions ad­Notre Dame jumped out inlevel of play has been of a very vances to the playoff round, the first game by scoring thehigh caliber, as most players which will consist of a double first 11 points and cruised to were members of their high elimination tournament start­the victory. 
school squads, and some have ing after October break. 
Bennett tallied five kills in even played for the Notre Defending champions O.C. 

the second contest and addedDame varsity team. Hoobers have several return­three blocks and three serviceMany dorms have fielded ing starters in addition to some aces.

several teams this season new off campus residents The third game was a rollerwhich comprise the league of which makes them, according coaster, with the Irish jumping 27 squads. The reason for the to coach Dave Thompson, a out to a 6-1 lead early. Thepopularity of the interhall preseason favorite. 
Ramblers roared back to scoreleague is that it provides an op­Any game against perrenial nine straight points. 

portunity to play some excel­powerhouse Stanford Hall Notre Dame recovered andlent competition without the should prove to be quite a chal­took the win on Bennett'senormous commitment lenge to the opposition. Mike seventh kill of the game. 
necessary to play a varsity Gordon, coach of last year's Kathy Cunningham added 10
sport. runner-up, Flanner F.C., 
kills for the Irish and TarynIt also affords underclas­reports that although they lost Collins had 34 assists and 12smen, who were not quite good a few key starters, the addition digs.

enough to make the varsity of some excellent freshmen The squad next plays in theteam in the fall, an opportunity and some former members of 
Eastern Kentucky University Colonel Classic, Friday and Saturday. 

DeBerry, ND look to weekend 
By KATIE CRONIN Still, Lindenfeld will depend Lindenfeld relies on her for Sports Writer on senior Benet DeBerry -a both offense and defense in the 
complete contrast to Alma's link position. 

The football team isn't the players -to lead the Irish wo­"She can get back on defense only varsity sport facing a cru­men. De Berry, a petite 5-1 and still be an offensive cial contest over the weekend. right link, is a fast, finesse threat," added Lindenfeld. Also looking to gather momen­player, and 'very smooth' ac­"Mainly it's her stickwork. She tum will be the Notre Dame cording to Lindenfeld. Win or keeps the ball on the end of her field hockey team as it faces lose, you can be sure that stick like it was on a string." off against Alma College in DeBerry will be a strong factor Lindenfeld is not the only one Michigan this Friday afternoon in the game. who's noticed DeBerry's tal­at 3:30. ent. Aside from being acknowl­
The Irish are looking for "She's a scoring threat every edged as the Outstanding De­things to come together in this time she carries the ball," said fensive Player . on the Irish game. They beat Alma last Lindenfeld. team for the past two years, year, but Coach Jill Lindenfeld DeBerry has been on the Mid­is certainly not overconfident In terms of overall offensive west Regional Tournament All­going into the upcoming game. and defensive skills, Linden­Star Team for the past three 
"They're a young team -a feld, Irish head coach for the years, and she was appointed big, fast, aggressive; and ex­last three years, considers to the Midwest Region First tremely physical team. And DeBerry the most talented String Field Hockey Team as playing orr the grass won't be player she's ever coached. a junior last year. to our advantage," said Lin­"She's an outstanding player Honors are not new to DeBer­denfeld. "Played on the turf, in all aspects of the game. She ry. She won All-State honors field hockey is more of a finesse has skill and confidence," said game." Lindenfeld. see DeBerry, page 9 
see more action 
was slumping, but it was frustrating not catching the ball. 
"Whether my success catching the ball since (last Thursday) is physical (because of the lens) or psy­chological because I'm concentrating more, I'm not sure. But whatever it is, I'm just glad to be out of my slump, and I'm looking forward to helping us beat Michigan State." 
Holtz is also looking forward to seeing more of Ward on Saturday evening against the Spartans. 
"You'll see more of Reggie Ward in the future," he said. "Ray Dumas and Pat Terrell came along very well with the opportunity afforded them. You'll see all three of them on Saturday." 
And, with a little help from a contact lens, Ward should not only be seeing a lot more of the field ­but a lot more of the ball as well. 
Holtz is certainly glad only one more game on the regular schedule will be played on Astroturf. The Irish were hit with some key injuries this past weekend in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Here's an update: Sophomore fullback Braxston Banks and senior cornerback Brandy Wells will be sidelined for at 
See INJURIES, page 8 



The Observet;<Rob Regovics 








