
. 
'Pee Wee's Playhouse' -Campus Scene 
-------------------------···------·-···­
--------~-----------·-· 


VOL XXI, NO. 96 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1987 
tbe independent student newspaper serving :Sotre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Cooke, Dink win SBP /VP election in landslide 
By MIRIAM HILL government, in reaching stu­Senior Staff Reporter dents and providing services for students," he said. 
Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink A total of 3,200 valid votes easily won Thursday's run-off were cast in the election, election for student body pres­slightly less than the 3,711 votes ident and vice president, cast in the election Tuesday. defeating the opposing ticket of Vince Willis and Cathy Non­nenkamp by a wide margin. 
Cooke and Bink carried 20 out 
Election

of 24 dorms, winning 1,975 votes, or 61.72 percent of the '87 total votes, according to Dan Gamache, chairman of the Om­budsman election committee. Willis and Nonnenkamp cap­The runoff became neces­tured 1,225 votes, or 38.28 sary after Tuesday's election percent of the total. failed to give any of the seven 


The off-campus vote went to tickets the 50 percent majority Cooke and Bink, while Willis required to win. Cooke and and Nonnenkamp won the Bink garnered 39.24 percent of majority of votes in Badin, the votes in that election, while Holy Cross, Pasquerilla West, Willis and Nonnenkamp cap­and Zahm halls. tured 21.13 percent. 
Student Body President-elect Cooke and Bink will replace Cooke said he was relieved the Student Body President Mike election was over and attrib­Switek and Vice President Don uted the victory to a "positive Montanaro on April 1. attitude ... not just about our Until then, Cooke said he will campaign, but about student concentrate on fulfilling his re­An excited Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink relax after their victory in yesterday's run-off for Stu­government in general. sponsibilities as sophomore dent Body President and Vice President.
"We wanted a chance to realize the potential in student see ELECTION, page 7 
" 
Becker to be Editor-in-Chief 
Kevin Becker, a junior from New Orleans, Louisiana, was elected 1987-88 Editor-in-Chief Thursday night. Be!,!ker was elected by a majority vote of The Observer Gen­eral Board. 
He will assume office on March 30. 
Becker joined the Viewpoint layout staff of The Observer as a freshman. He became Assistant Viewpoint Editor his sophomore year. This year he served as Manag­ing Editor until January. "' "i.._•.. ,,
.!1 . 
"I hope in the upcoming year The . :·, . ;:_·:'\'"' i.~-6.1 ••}~~\~~~--...-. •. Observer will be an objective source ~ l . lt"!""·~.r.~~~ ..
.::,s~f:~~J~·;~~~---....~-.-~·.\, ~ ·'i~~1-..,~--~·~~·~·;'".~.'>.
of news and a forum for thought on 
' 

this campus," Becker said. "We mented, "The Observer has enjoyed would like to carry on a dialogue with a lot of success this year in the ser­all members of the community in or­vice it provides. We would like to der to reflect the events and situa­continue looking forward as we have tions that are having an effect on in the past to serve all the needs of every one of us," he added. this community, both Notre Dame 
Emphasizing growth, Becker com-and Saint Mary's." 
Junior Parents' Weekend 
TODAY 4 p.m., ROTC Building Noon -4 p.m.: Campus tours will leave 
1:30 p.m.: "The Notre Dame Jazz
every hour. 

Band" performs in the AnnenbergNoon: "Wake Up the Echoes," the Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
movie about Notre Dame football his­2:30 p.m.: "Shenanigans", Notre tory will be shown continuously in Dame's answer to the song and danceLaFortune's Little Theater. 
of Broadway, will perform in the An­9:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m.: A Cocktail nenberg Auditorium. 
Dance, centering on the theme "An Evening of Holiday Cheer," is the 4:30 p.m.: Junior Class Mass. This weekend's kickoff event. Tickets re­event in the ACC Arena is very special quired. for University President Father SATURDAY Theodore Hesburgh, who will be the cel­
9:30 a.m. -12;30 p.m.: College ebrant, with Father Edward "Monk" Workshops will be held for each of the Malloy delivering the homily. four colleges. 6:15-9:30 p.m.: Presidents's Dinner in 1, 2:15, 3:30 p.m.: "Wake Up the the ACC, Ticket required. 
Body Building Echoes" will be shown at the Cushing SUNDAY 
Celebrating 25 years of architectural Hall of Engineering. 10:30 a.m.-Noon: Closing Brunch: The education at Notre Dame, design Noon -4 p.m.: Open House Receptions: Closing Brunch, held in the ACC North classes are competing for the best rep­Air Force ROTC, 12 -4 p.m.; Navy Dome, is the conclusion of the weekend. resentation of this anniversary. This ROTC, 1-3:30p.m.; Army ROTC, 2-Tickets, required. 



l 
• 
The Observer 


In Brief 
$500 million in emergency aid for food and housing programs for the homeless was unanimously approved by a House panel Thursday. The House housing and commu­nity development subcommittee voted to approve a sub­stitute measure offered by Chairman Henry Gonzalez, D­Tex., which would establish an Interagency Commission on Homelessness to coordinate all federal programs for street people. -Associated Press 
Little Richard's life story should be told on film and should be played by Prince, Little Richard told inter­viewers in London. "Prince is me in this generation. When anybody sees Prince, they see Little Richard," he said. Little Richard, one of the original '50s rock 'n rollers known for such hits as "Long Tall Sally" and "Tutti-Frutti," said he hasn't found anyone willing to make a movie of his life. 
-Associated Press 
Iron Maiden rocked a hotel in Long Beach, Calif., after the rock group's stage crew occupied 29 rooms and left without paying the 2,000 dollar tab, the hotel manager said. Hotel Manager Robert Crow said the problem stemmed from a dispute when the crew showed up at the hotel on Saturday night when it had reservations for Sun­day. Iron Maiden's travel agent, Karen Pebley, said the crew did not pay because it was unhappy with the rooms and service. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
''The Catholic Faith Series''continues Sunday from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel with Fa­ther Andre Leveille, C.S.C. on "Sacraments." -The Ob­server 
Student Aid Finders, a nation-wide scholarship matching service, offers help to college freshmen and sop­homores in finding additional outlets for student aid.The service, which costs $39, guarantees to find any student a minimun of 5(and as many as 25) student aid sources based on information the student supplies to the firm. For further information call1-800-AID-FIND. -The Observer 
~ 
''World Terrorism,'' an International Law Society Lecture by International Criminal Law Specialist Profes­sor Cherif Bassiouni, will be presented today from 12-1 
p.m. in Room 101 of the Law School. -The Observer 
The An Tostal Committees will hold a meeting for anyone interested in working on An Tostal Sunday at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium.-The Observer 
Professors Patrick Maloney and Peter Breslauer will present a Program of Song on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium.Their program will include songs of Johannes Brahms, two new songs of Ethan Haimo and "Liederkneis" by Robert Schumann. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 


Weather 
Junior Parentswill not be deceived as skies remain cloudy as usual with highs in the middle 30s. A 40 percent chance of snow is predicted for Friday night and Saturday. -Associated Press 
--=-l.-= _· ---A--=-Y~ ~ ~. ----­

-~he-Ob.se~~er----


Deaign EditoT .......... Jane Anne Reldford Deaign A"iatanl .. .. .. .. ...... . Pete LaFleur TJipeaetterr .... .. .............. .. Shawn Sexton ........................................ Chris Reardon News Editor....................... Regis Coccia Copl/ EdltOI' ........................ Cathy StacySporn CopJI EdiiOI'............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint CopJI Editor ...... .. Pam Bethel Viewpoint La11oul ..... Ann Marie Durning 
Accent Cop!/ Editor................. Ed Nolan Accent LaJioul.. .............. Ann Blddlecom ........................................... Karen Webb ........................................Heather Hypes Campw Scene Editorr .. .. Cindy Petrltes TJipiato ............................... Esther Ivory ND Da11 Editor ............... James Winkler SMC DaJI Editor ... .. Theresa Harrington Ad Design............... Catherine Ramsden Photographsf' .. ..................... Fred Dobie 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile Olllenw (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throu&h Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile O!Mener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoiJese. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed fOt' $40 per year (S2.5 per semester) by writinal'lle Otllerv•, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodiana 46SS6. 
Till a..ner is a member of Tile "-iattll r.... All reproduction riahts are reserved. 

Friday, February 20, 1987-page 2 


JPW: time for parents to see what we do here 
Well, here I am again at the office, past mid­night, pounding something resembling a JPW Inside column into a terminal that's probably older than I am. "As usual," my parents would say. "Don't you ever study?" 
Many of us, by the time we become juniors, have at least one activity that we throw a lot of effort and spare (or not-so-spare) time doing. For some it's student government. For some it's social projects, or awareness groups, or An Tostal. For a couple of hundred students, it is this publication. 
For the people who work on this newspaper, life can get very hectic. Papers have been known to be finished after five o'clock in the morning, and academic pursuits end up becom­ing secondary. There have been weeks when I could count the classes I attended on one hand. And of course there have been countless papers written in one draft, tests crammed for in one night, books unread. 
But on the other hand, there's been a lot of accomplishment in something in which I was totally inexperienced as a freshman. If some­one told me my first day here that someday I'd be writing this column, I'd have laughed. 
When I signed on with The Observer as layout staff, it was just something to fill a resume and my spare time. But extracurriculars are like plants in dorm rooms. They either grow so quickly that you can't see out your window, or they quickly wither up and die. This interest has grown. 
It means a lot to me. 

I think it's hard for parents to understand why we spend hours on extracurriculars, espe­cially when they're shelling out their hard­earned cash to send us to an institution of higher learning. Parties and dates the~ can under­stand. After all, they were kids once too. They'll even tell their kids about their own exploits once in a while. But I have to admit that, if I were spending thousands of dollars every year on my kid, I'd expect a 4.0 for my money. 
The extracurriculars are important, though. Besides making one more marketable when job interviews roll after graduation, they allow the college student to meet a whole range of people that they otherwise wouldn't have met. 

Junior Parents Weekend is obviously a weekend to let our parents meet all those people that we've been telling them about for two and a half years now. And it's a special time to be with people that have been an important part of our lives, whether we want to admit it or not. 
It's also a chance to show off the campus we have come to know and, hopefully, love so well. Even though they've probably seen it before, now it is really our campus. As freshmen and sophomores we were still getting to know it, finding our niche. As seniors we'll be planning on leaving it. But junior year is our year. For the first time in our twenty years, we will be entertaining our parents instead of them enter­taining us. 
But more importantly, we'll be showing them the places where we put in so much time and totally destroy our GPAs. When they see the offices, read the newspaper, meet the co­workers, hopefully they will understand why we do this to ourselves. 
But since they're our parents, they probably will. Thanks, Mom and Dad. 
Tlae Notre Dame Chapel Choir and Chorale • : and the StudentActivitiesBoard present a : 

i MARDI GRAS BALL i 
:WUh dohnny Knorr and his 13 piece Orchestra : 
: •Date: Friday, February 27 : : •Time: 7pm-10pm : • •Where: Theodore's •••• • Tickets: $3 Students, $5 Adults •• 
• •+
+ Ticket~ go on sale 2/16-2/27 at the Department of Music in+ Crowley Hall and the Student Activities Board on the 2nd floor of ++ Lafortune. +
•+ Dress: Formal or Masquerade •t 
doorrrkes • 

: 
ona berJery• & ...ca?: 
•+Also: On ~3(MonJ •~6(thursJ there will be ballroom dancing lessons •••
•
+ at Theodore's from 4 pm • 5pm.
.............................: 
The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 3 
Security Beat Reagan lifts sanctions froiD Poland 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m.-An Alumni Hall resident reported that his bookbag was stolen from the South Dining Hall lobby while he was eating breakfast 
2:10 p.m. -Security received a report of vandalism in the basement of the Declo faculty building. Estimate of damage unknown. 
9:45p.m. -A Lyons Hall resident reported that her bookbag was stolen from the South Dining Hall lobby during the lunch hour. Loss estimated $80. 
Wednesday 
1 p.m. -Security investigated the theft of a wallet from a resident's unlocked room in Stanford Hall. The loss was estimated at $30. 
2:30p.m.-The manager of biological sciences In the Galvin Life Science Building reported that one of the teaching labs in the building had been vandalized. The damage estimate was unknown. 
4 p.m. -A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the bike rack located outside the dorm. The loss Is estimated at $30. 
4:24 p.m. -A student in Flanner Hall reported the theft of his jacket during the lunch hour. Loss valued at $200. 
5:50p.m. -A Sorin Hall resident was surprised by an intruder while he lay sleeping in his room. Upon seeing the resident, the subject claimed to be looking for someone. However, the name he mentioned was not found to be a student at the University. Til@' subject is described as a black man, approximately 20 years old, 6 feet 1 inch tall, stocky build, medium com­plexion, with short hair. 
Thursday 
2:17a.m.-A student telephoned the Security Office to report that he had observed someone break the gate arm located In the Parking Lot by the Center for Continuing Education. These gate arms cost $20 to replace. 
1:45 p.m. -A resident of Carroll Hall reported the loss of his wallet somewhere in the Cushing Engineering Building. Loss to the victim is approximately $20. 
2:00 p.m. -Security received a report from a student in Howard Hall that some unknown person(s) had removed his $325 jacket from inside his unlocked room while he was showering. · 
2:45p.m.-An employee of the Cedar Grove Cemetary reported to Security that two windows had been broken out of the Maintenance Building. Total damage was estimated at $25. 


tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'l 
*~~~~~***************** 
You've come a long way baby! 
Happy 21st
-·­
\ ( 
Birthday Brian 
With Love 

·~ 


Senior Formal 
Tuxedo Special 
Classic Black Tuxedo 
Re~ularly $44"" 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan, responding to pleas from church and trade union leaders, lifted economic sanc­tions against Poland on Thursday, but warned the War­saw government not to retreat on political reforms. 
"We will be watching to see that further steps are taken toward national reconciliation in Poland, and that the prog­ress made is not reversed," Reagan said in a statement. 
The Polish government es­timates its economy has lost $15 billion because of Western sanctions imposed after the martial law crackdown on the Solidarity trade union in December 1981. 
However, critics claim War­saw's leaders used the sanc­tions as an excuse for the country's poor economy. 
"The present regime in Poland uses the sanctions as a 
1 crutch and it's high time that we kicked the crutch away and let them stand on their two feet and do not blame (the United States for) what's happening to the economy," said Aloysius Mazewski, president of the Chicago-based Polish Ameri­can Congress and a guest at the White House for Reagan's an­nouncement. The last remaining U.S. 
sanctions against Poland were the denial of "most-favored­nation" tariff treatment and a ban on U.S. credits and guaran­tees. 
A senior administration offi­cial, briefing reporters on con­dition he not be identified, said that while trade tariffs will be lowered for Polish goods, War­saw will have to compete in a very competitive market. 
As for the lifting of the ban on credits and guarantees, the official said, "There will be no manna from heaven flowing from this decision." Poland already owes the United States more than $2 billion in guaranteed credits than it is unable to repay. 


The Observer /Fred Dobie

Sunsets and silhouettes 
The sun setting behind Carroll Hall casts a glimmer across the waters of St. Mary's Lake at the end of a clear winter's day. 
Juniorsl Juniorsl Juniorsl 
This weekend show mom that Notre Dame has some country..... Bring them to rrFie Country 91arveste11! We graciously invite parents to come in and browse. 
Check our large assortment of: 
•
gift items for all occasions 

•
decorated baskets/ wreaths 

•
mugs and tins to be filled as you wish ·trail mixes, dried fruits & nuts, unique yogurt Items 


-FREE SAMPLES-

Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11 :3D-6:30 Sat.-Sun. 12:oo-5:00 
lJ1ie Country !Jfaroester, located in the basement of LaFortune 


Avalanche buries skiers, hundreds search for missing 
The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987 -page 4 

Associated Press 
BRECKENRIDGE, Colo. ­More than 250 mountaineers using long poles to probe the deep snow across an avalanche recovered two more bodies Thursday and continued searching for at least one more missing skier, authorities said. 
All three victims of W ednes­day's snow slide were men, and their bodies were found in one area of the steep slope in the central Rockies. 

The first body was found Wednesday, less than three hours after the avalanche. The other two were found in 4 to 6 feet of snow Thursday. 
"We have developed infor­mation that a fourth victim is involved in the slide. We have shifted our emphasis to the other side of the slide," said Summit County Sheriff Delbert Ewoldt. He said the missing man was skiing with his stepbrother and was not with the other victims. 
A helicopter dropped ex­plosives to relellse loose snow that could cause more avalanches on Peak 7, a steep slope north of the Breckenridge ski area, before the searchers, aided by dogs, headed out Thursday. 
The snow slide that thun­dered down the mountain Wed­nesday cut a half-mile swath and left a 40-foot-long fissure where it broke loose. 

Sixty certified mountaineers and 200 volunteers searched the snow Thursday. Each was equipped with a radio transmit­ter in case of another ava­lanche in the Arapahoe Na­tional Forest 65 miles west of Denver. 
One of the volunteers was Mike Tyack, a 31-year-old South African who said he missed joining the doomed ski party when he was unexpec­tedly called to work as a bartender at one of the area 

Oh, hang it all 

North Dining Hall Manager Tory English, left, and Sophomore Chris Lee undertake preparations to welcome parents to campus for Junior Parents' Weekend. · 

ATIENTION JUNIORS: Good news! Due to a change in table seating arrangements, we will be able to occomodote on the fieldhouse floor all families who hove 'purchased tickets. There will be NO dinner seating in the Monogram Room. Your table numbers will correlate with tables on the fieldhouse floor. Thank you for your cooperation See you tonight! Hove a great weekend! 
resorts. 
"I was meant to be with them at the top of the peak but I got called to work 10 or 15 minutes earlier," he said. "I'm thank­ful, but I'm also sad for the others." 
The area was marked dan­gerous and out-of-bounds, but Tyack said some skiers dis­regard warnings because "it's a challenge. It's deep powder, and the guys get pretty bored just skiing the runs. We're all aware of the risks." 


Driver shot in argument on Interstate 
Associated Press 
LAFAYETTE, Ind.-An off­duty Marion County Sheriff's deputy was arrested after he allegedly shot another driver during a dispute along Inter­state 65 and left him wounded about 20 miles north of here, police said . 
Marion County Sheriff Joseph McAtee identified the deputy as Ruben Rivera, 28, of In­dianapolis. He said Rivera, taken into custody by state police, joined the department May 24 and was assigned to the jail division. 
Authorities said the wounded motorist, Steven Rusk, 29, of Lafayette, was hospitalized in Lafayette in serious condition 
with a gunshot wound in the ab­domen. 


The JPW Committee 

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987 -page 5 
SMC President declares Special Olympics Week 
Michiana's history to date,"By MARIA DOTI according to Randy Brown, 

Saint Mary's Day Editor 
manager of O'Laughlin Saint Mary's President Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 

William Hickey recently "The Games will require the declared Feb. 16-19 Special support of the entire Saint Olympics Awareness Week Mary's community." in honor of the 1987 Interna­This summer's Games 
tional Summer Special will include representatives Olympics Games to be held from over 60 different on the Notre Dame and Saint countries. "One advantage Mary's campuses this sum­of a college community is mer. that many of the students have use of a second lan­
Information sessions were guage," said Mary Beth held Monday for Saint Wilkin, the Saint Mary's IS­Mary's students and com­SOG representative. munity members interested Approximately 1200 ath­in volunteering for the letes and coaches will be Games on Monday, Feb. 16 housed on the Saint Mary's and Tuesday, Feb. 17. campus alone. Saint Mary's 
will also act as host for the 

Over 4500 athletes and cycling, volleyball and 15000 volunteers will gather equestrian events. at Saint Mary's and Notre The bid for the 1987 ISSOG Dame during the week of was made October 21, 1983 July 31-August 8 to partici­by former Saint Mary's pate in the "largest event in President John Duggan. 



r=T. LAUU~l2UAL~ 
I• 




' 
WHEN YOU NEED IT BAD 
WE DEliVER: 
~Oceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days and 7 wild nights, providing air conditioning, color TV, telephone, swimming pool and sun deck. All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. :toptional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis).
1fFree pool deck parties. 

' 
~Food, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus Programs trip participants. 
~ Computeriz~ central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization. 
~ Full time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 
~COMPLETE 


PACKAGE 
'ALL TAXES, TIPS ANO SERVICE CHARGES INCLUOEO 

ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) ROAD TRIP OPTION (INCLUDES ALL OF THE ABOVE) (DETAILS BELOW) 
' 
ROAD TRIP: We will provide round lrip motor coach transportalton departing from your campus and travelling straight through to your hotel In Fort Lauderdale. All buses have redimng seats and air conditioning, and wash room facilities for a comfortable ride. 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY ON THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 
THE NEW WAVE" 

Referendum ranks The Observer 
By JIM RILEY the referendum on the ballot by endum didn't really say anyth­Assistant News Editor a majority vote. ing. Gardiner was out of town and Holst said there was no A slight majority of students could not be reached for com­prescribed course of action to said The Observer is "very ment. be taken if the results 'Yere good" or "good" on this week's The wording of the referen­negative. referendum, according to dum was: "Every student pays Holst said he was surprised results released by Dan a mandatory $12 annual Obser­the results were so good con­Gamache, Ombudsman elec­ver fee. The quality of the Ob­sidering that the language of tion commissioner. server is: Very Good, Good, the referendum, which men­In round figures, 11 percent Average, Poor, or Very Poor." tioned the $12 Observer fee, said The Observer is very good, could have insinuated the fee
Miklos said the survey was
and 41 percent indicated it is was too much.
for The Observer's own inter­
good. Holst said that if the results
est. "We have no power over
Thirty-four percent said The had been negative, it would
The Observer," he said. 
Observer is average, 9 percent have been a slap in the face to
Miklos said he never meant
said poor, and 4 percent indi­"a lot of students who put good
the referendum to be mali­
cated it is very poor. time in." 
cious.

There were 3,688 valid votes Miklos said he thought it 
"I strongly believe The Ob­
cast in the referendum, accor­must be hard to decide news ding to Gamache. server has to remain autono­and editorial content and still 
"We're pleased and mous," said Miklos. He said he remain popular. delighted with the results," was against the idea of having "Last night we elected a new said Joe Murphy, editor-in an Observer review board. editor-in-chief, and I'm pleased chief of The Observer. Senator Brian Holst said the to say he takes over the news­
According to Dave Miklos, intent of the referendum was paper with the support of the senior class president and Stu­to assess student opinion of The community," said Murphy. dent Senate member, the ref­Observer. "It was intended to Kevin Becker, who will take 
erendum was brought forward be a useful tool,'' he said. office as editor-in-chief after to the senate by Student But he said that the context spring break, said, "I think the Senator John Gardiner. After in which the question was pre­vote is a reflection of the ser­discussion, the senate placed sented was such that the refer-vice The Observer had been
I 
providing over the past year. 
"Hopefully, we'll continue to look forward and enjoy even more support in the future," Becker said. 
Murphy said The Observer is in the process of doing its own survey. Preliminary results have been similar to the results of the referendum, Murphy said. 
"It just goes to show while you can't please all the people all the people all the time, it looks like we're pleasing most of the people most of the time," said Murphy. 
'87 graduation speaker rumored but still unknown 
By LIZ REEVES Staff Reporter 
The identity of the 1987 com­mencement speaker is as of yet unknown. Rumours suggest that it may be the Pope, others that it will be Corazon Aquino, and still others that University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will be the speaker because it is his last year in office. 
The decision is solely up to Father Hesburgh. Honorary Degree recipients are nominated by the College Coun­cils and elected through the Provost Advisory Committee. But these groups have no say in the final selection of a com­mencement speaker. 
Father Hesburgh will accept suggestions from the senior class, as well as from any fac­ulty and staff members, but these are merely suggestions, not nominations. According to Dave Miklos, senior class pres­ident, "It's really just a matter of who's available." 
The senior class will decide who they will suggest through the Advisory Council. No for­mal suggestions have been made yet. 


---------~-----~-----~­
The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 6 

Bank manager thwarts near-holdup 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Bank branch manager Frank St._.Charles is playing down his role in foiling a bank robbery attempt by a would-be bandit who carried a gun that later was found to be a fake. 
St. Charles, a 20-year banking veteran who had not previously been the victim of a holdup attempt, wrestled with the bandit Wednesday, forced him out of the bank, and yelled to scare the man away. 

Officials said the incident began when an elderly man walked up to St. Charles' office at the Fifth Third Bank branch in suburban Monfort Heights and pointed what looked like a blue steel revolver in St. Charles' face. 
St. Charles grabbed the man by the hand that held the gun, struggled with him across the lobby floor, and continued the scuffle until the man was out of the bank. 
"It was a reaction," St. Charles said. "I just thought, 'Get control of this and get him out of here.' " 
Frederick Gale, 59, of In­dianapolis, later was arrested and charged with aggravated robbery of the bank, said Victor Carrelli, Hamilton County chief deputy sheriff. Gale was picked up driving west on In­terstate 74, west of Cincinnati, Carrelli said. 

The Observer /Fred Dobie
Fake handoff 

A lone glove outside the Stepan Chemistry Hall reveals itself as the winter snow on campus 
slowly gives way to spring. 
Investigation of severed legs continues 
Associated Press 
, FAIRFIELD, Ohio -Police are trying to determine whe­ther a trailer that contained what are believed to be satanic symbols is linked to the slaying of a Cincinnati woman whose severed legs were found dumped near an Indiana church. 
Police in rural southeastern 
Indiana, where the legs were 
found, and in southwestern 
Ohio continued their efforts 
Thursday to find the rest of the 
body and to learn more about 
the case. No arrests had been 
made Thursday. 
Indiana State Police tenta­
tively identified the victim as 
Monica Lemen,. 21, of Cincin­
nati. She was employed as a 
waitress at a downtown Cincin­
nati restaurant and had been 
attending Cincinnati Technical 
College. Her family had re­
ported her as missing Feb. 10. 
The legs, severed 8 inches 
above the knee and found Sat­
urday near a historic church in 
rural Franklin County, Ind., 
were tentatively identified by 

~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wwww~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 







C R L. ~
at-ate-1quors 1 
~ 

Fonnerly Lock's Liquor World ~ 2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 ~ 
Across &om YeUow Submarine ~ ~ 
~
1· 
~ 
~ 
~
I 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ P



I eac

~Schnapps
I~ $5 99
. 
~ 
~ 
~ 

h 
WE HAVE 


KEGS 
· 
p 
opov $8.99 

IMilwaukee's Best 1 $5.29 a case 
Surrogate mother views agreement as 'mistake' 
Associated Press 

HACKENSACK, N.J.-A wo­man fighting in court to keep the baby she bore under con­tract testified Thursday that one day she'll tell the child the surrogate agreement was a mistake. 
Baby M, as the 11-month-old child is known in court papers, will "have difficulty with the way she was conceived (and) the way she was brought into the world," Mary Beth Whitehead said. 
"But I think she'll be able to deal with it," she added. 
Whitehead agreed to be ar­tificially inseminated with sperm from William Stern and to bear a child for him and his wife, Elizabeth, for $10,000. But when the girl was born March 27, Whitehead changed her mind and fled to Florida, where she stayed until authorities caught her and put the baby in the temporary custody of the Sterns. The Sterns have sued for custody of child. 
On Thursday, Whitehead said of the contract, "I view it as a mistake." 
Meanwhile, a character wit­ness for Whitehead admitted Thursday that she forged a May 18 letter sent to Superior Court Judge Harvey Sorkow and that she lied in earlier tes­timony. 
Susan Hergenhan, a former neighbor of Whitehead and now living in Stuart, Fla., said she wrote the letter to Sorkow and signed it Mary Beth Whitehead. The 11-page letter responded to allegations made by Stern. 
At the time the letter was sent, Whitehead was in Florida, and the surrogate tes­tified she never knew the letter was sent. An angry Sorkow told Hergenhan, "You know I have no alternative but to consult with the prosecutor on this." 
An attorney for the Sterns, Gary Skoloff, said the tes­timony discredited the witness who earlier testified that Whitehead was a caring and loving mother and wife. 
"At this point the judge won't know who to believe on the Whitehead si«;le," he said out­side the courtroom. "They are producing witnesses who blan­tantly lie to the judge." 
Attorneys for Whitehead left the courthouse immediately after testimony concluded and could not be reached for com­ment. 
Court documents were sent by the Sterns' attorneys to Her­genhan's New Jersey house while Whitehead was in Florida with the instructions that they be forwarded to the surrogate and her husband, Richard. 
Under cross-examination earlier in the day, Hergenhan had testified she never read the documents. 
Whitehead, on the stand ear­lier Thursday for her second day of cross-examination, said if she is granted custody, she will allow the Sterns to visit the girl because she wants the child to know her biological father. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

$7.99 a case ~ 
1 
Lite ~ 
~ 
~ 



Busch ~ 
I ~ ~ 
a pair of boots and calluses on 
the feet, police said. Police said Lemen's father and boyfriend had identified the cowboy boots as a pair purchased for Lemen. 
Indiana police said they hoped to positively identify the legs by matching the blood type with Lemen's blood type. 
Franklin County Sheriff Lee Davidson said members of his department, state police and conservation officers expanded their search Thursday into churches and cemeteries. 

I 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 

~ Store Roan: ~ 
G0 

~ 9._.10p• Moa-Than. Our motto is to wheel and deal. ~ ~ 91.1·1.1:00pa Fri. A Sat. Come and talk to us about parties, ~ ~ SYR's, etc. Also cbeck our keg ~ 
~ • G0 
~ Wuaa or ~ld Beer AvaUable pnces. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 
Federal drug testing procedures criticized 
----------~ 
Friday, February 20, 1987-page 7 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal employees ordered to take drug tests will find it hard to doctor urine samples under rules issued Thursday, but are also guaranteed review by a medical officer before any pos­itive result can be reported to a supervisor. 
The technical rules, parepared by the Department of Health and Human Services, do not deal with the underlying controversy of whether it is proper to require tests. 
But they still drew quick criticism from a union chief and from two members of Congress, one of whom accused the Reagan administration of attacking fundamental privacy rights of federal workers. 
Last September, President Reagan ordered drug testing of employees who have sensitive jobs and instructed the depart­ment to develop the scientific procedures to be followed. 
The Office of Personnel Man­agement issued regulations last November that could make as many as 1.1 million workers subject to testing, although only a fraction of them are likely to be required to submit. 
Those government-wide rules were held in abeyance pending the Health and Human Services guidelines, but some agencies -including the FBI and Drug Enforcement Admin­istration -have been testing on their own. They will have 180 days to bring their clinical procedures in line with those set Thursday. 
The detailed new rules, de­signed to ensure that the person being tested is submitting his own fresh urine sample, call for water in the toilet used to con­tain a blue dye and for the sample's temperature to be taken within four minutes. 
Both are to guard against the person submitting a sample diluted with toilet water or one that was smuggled into the test­ing site. A monitor would be nearby, but would not watch the person give the sample. 
The guidelines include elab­orate instructions on transpor­tation of samples to make sure they are not mixed up and on the laboratory testing procedures. 
For example, any sample that tests negative on initial screening is reported back to the agency as negative. An in­itial positive must be con­firmed positive by a second, more expensive analysis that is generally accepted as nearly 100 percent accurate. 
At a news conference, Attor­ney General Edwin Meese and Office of Personnel Manage­ment Director Constance Horner said the testing pro­gram was aimed at rehabilitat­ing drug users. 


R..taurant And Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuen and Hunen Tnte 
Juniors bring your parents to the Great Wall 
Lunches startin& at•••••••12.95 Dinnen startin&at••••••••14.25 
lew open 7 day• a w .... ....TlMin.: 11:30 ·····10,... Fri.-Sit.: 11:30 L•.·ll ,_.. 
S... & lleihleyll1:30 L&·ll ,... 
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272·7376 

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
~~~~~~~~·~~~~ 

The most fashionable foul-weather gear in the world 

The Outback Coat is one of the finest ramcoats in the world and is recognized as such hv all. It is made from asrurdv dark bro~·n conon infused with asecret oiVwax blend which makes it I00% waterprrx>l~ yet breathable. Its features mdudc ashoulder cape to shed rain, a double snap dosurc, conon lining, and ms1dc leg straps and a rear gusset tor mimg 
Everything lor Horse and Rider English & Western 
55345 Fir Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259-1188 

518 Mile North of U.S. 20 on Fir Road Mon. Thru Sat.: 10-8 Sun.: 10-6 
The Observer /Paul Oeschaer burgh. A weekend of traditional festivities has been prepared for juniors and their parents to 
enjoy. 


Election 
continuedfrompage 1 
class president and Bink will continue her work as chairman of the Junior Parents' Weekend Committee. 

As student body president, Cooke said his first priority is to "organize ourselves and or­ganize a structure in which we can accomplish the ideas and goals we set forth in our cam­paign." 
Cooke criticized past ad­ministrations for not using stu­dent government to its greatest potential. 
"We think the structure of student government is good," he said, "but we think the po­tential of certain offices has not been fulfilled in the past." 

Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy RoM South Bend, lndlene 46637 
For reservellons cell 
(219) 277-9662 


Cooke said he wants "to work on the smaller things, the things that affect students di­rectly," like shuttle services to the airport for students on days near break. 
Cooke and Bink said they also will work on providing snowplows in student parking lots and on reducing service charges on student accounts at the Notre Dame Credit Union. 

Crowdof200 storms, loots neighborhood 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -A rock-and bottle-throwing crowd of about 200 people stormed a predominantly black neighbor­hood Thursday night, looting stores, and setting fire to a car and trash bins. 
A city official said the fight­ing may have been in response to Wednesday's death of a black man subdued by white police using a choke hold. 
No serious injuries were re­ported in the melee, but one police officer was hit with a brick, Tampa Police Sgt. Jerry Dejonge said. 



The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987 -page 8 


Sha:mir would oppose peace role despite Soviet diplomatic moves 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir says he would oppose a Soviet role in Mideast peace talks, even if Moscow resumed diplomatic relations with Is­rael after a 20-year break. 
"Their aim is not to bring peace there," Shamir said Thursday. He said the Soviets would put Israel in an "un­tenable position" of having to face extreme Arab demands. 
Shamir gave his views in an interview with The Associated Press and in a speech to the National Press Club. 
Despite Shamir's views, President Reagan and key aides told the Israeli leader an international peace conference that included the Soviets may be one way to get peace talks started. 
V olcker says 
•


currencies must stabilize 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said Thursday that a weekend meeting in Paris of in­dustrial nations should help ef­forts to stabilize exchange rates, but that real progress re­quires West Germany and Japan to do more to stimulate their economies. 
Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee that con­tinued slow growth in those and other industrial nations in­creases the risk of recession in the United States. 
He also suggested that Japan should import more goods from Korea and Latin America in an effort to trim its huge trade surplus, a move he said would indirectly help ease this na­tion's $170 billion trade deficit. 
Volcker testified amid reports of a tentative agree­ment among industrial nations aimed at stabilizing the value of the dollar against other major currencies in exchange for promises from Japan and West Germany to do more to spur growth. 
The dollar has plunged more than 40 percent in the past two years against other major cur­rencies. And, while this decline promises to help ease the U.S. trade deficit by making im­ports more expensive, it has created economic hardships elsewhere, particularly in Japan. 
The proposed accord is ex­pected to be announced on Sat­urday at a meeting in Paris among finance ministers and central bank officials of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain and France, with a second session tenta­tively scheduled for Sunday that will also include Canada and Italy. 
Speaking with reporters after his testimony, Volcker said, "I don't think this meeting in itself should be given undue importance. It's part of a process in a coor­dinated, cooperative way." 

NY Health Department to distribute condoms 
"We are opposed, I am op­posed," Shamir said. "In my opinion, it will be harmful to peace, to prospects of peace in our area, and to Israeli inter­ests." 
Asked ifSoviet recognition of Israel would cause him to change his mind about a peace conference, the prime minister replied quickly: "In my opinion, no." 
In fact, Shamir said, the Reagan administration was not enthusiastic about a peace con­ference, but had to explore it in deference to others. He referred apparently to Jordan, which proposed such a confer­ence last year. 
Some U.S. officials believe the Soviets could be confined to a nominal role, but Shamir said 
"The Soviet Union wants such a conference in order that they should play a major role in the region," he said. "But the role it has been playing has been far from constructive." 
Shamir said a series of diplomatic approaches to Mos­cow about resuming relations with Israel had not brought "any tangible results." 
Relations were broken off by the Soviet Union in 1967 in a show of solidarity with the Arabs who were defeated by Is­rael in the Six-Day war. 
The Israeli leader said he would be willing to attend a peace conference with Egypt, Jordan and Palestinian Arabs, held under U.S. auspices. 
Shamir leaves today for Los Angeles. He will stop in New York on Monday and return to Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The city Health Department will give away an additional! million condoms in the coming year to help fight AIDS, a department spokes­man said Thursday. 
The department has been dis­pensing free condoms to family planning clinics, health fairs and community organizations for several years. An extra $300,000 appropriation will al­low the stepped-up effort, said Martin McGinley. 
He did not have figures on the number of condoms dis­tributed in the past. 
The condoms will be dis­pensed at health clinics, family planning clinics and social ser­vice organizations where there are large numbers of in­travenous drug users, McGin­ley said. 
He said the city has had 9,000 cases of AIDS since 1981, "and we only see the problem getting worse." The number of people infected with the AIDS virus in New York is estimated at half a million, he said. 
"The only way to prevent the spread of AIDS is educating the public on how to prevent get­ting AIDS and how not to engage in risk behavior, and to promote the use of condoms, which will prevent the spread of the virus," he said. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

-. ---­








p E E 
w E 
E 
H 
E R 
M 
A 
N 

The Observer -February 20, 1987 

The new morning man 



JOE BUCOLO senior staff reporter 

t I 0 o'clock every Saturday morning. an incredibleAevent takes place. It's not the Olympics or even a Notre Dame Glee Club concert but It's just as popular. Each Saturday, people across the country -many right here at Notre Dame -turn on their televisions to watch "Pee-Wee's Playhouse." What makes this show so special? 
"Pee-Wee's Playhouse" airs on CBS. The main star, as one can easily guess, is Pee-Wee Herman. Pee-Wee is a lovable, somewhat peculiar, man who has been around for many years; however, his most recent movie, "Pee-Wee's Big Adventure," really boosted his career and fame. Whether the movie was loved or hated (and It received both opinions), the movie did make Pee Wee a famous star. 
"Pee-Wee's Playhouse" Is a kids show only in that it is shown during the traditional Saturday morning cartoon hours. Many teenagers and older Pee-Wee fans tune in weekly to see what the playhouse has to offer. In fact "Playhouse" has over 1.3,000 
regular viewers who are age 18 or older. 

The playhouse Itself is a large room decorated with very strange and modern things, many of which are regular characters on the show. 1'1r. Window, for example, is simply a large window with one heck of a big mouth. Despite this "flaw," everyone seems to admire him. Pee-Wee also has a Genie-in-the-Box who grants Pee-Wee wishes and also tells some whimsical jokes. Pee-Wee's green chair, Chalry, is a weekly character, too. 
No playhouse would be complete without a mousehole; however, Pee-Wee's mousehole is a little out of the ordinary. Instead of housing mice, this one houses a family of small dinosaurs. Every now and then, Pee-Wee checks up on them; they're usually playing a sport and having a family event. Pee-Wee also has a pet rterodactyl named (what else?) rterry. 

The playhouse does have some human characters beside Pee-Wee. Mrs. Steve Is a plump, gossipy woman, while Captain Carl is the show's macho sailor. Probably the 
see PEE-WEE, page 2 



The Observer-February 20, 1987 Scene-Page 2 


'Black Widow' 
She mates, she kills, but does she love? 
B 
BETH CORNWELL There is never any question Reni gives Alex a chance to features writer about the identity of the killer. explore her sexuality,.to be-Alex knows what the audience come comfortable and familiar lack Widow'' is a tight psy­knows -Russell's character is a with her femininity, her vul­chological thriller that ex­serial murderess. The only nerability. The relationship be­ploits the relatio~ship between question is whether or not Alex tween the two seethes with hunter and huntJd. Alex Barnes can prove what she knows in contradictory undercurrents of (Debra Winger) is a federal in­time to stop another murder affection, admiration, jealousy, vestigator who lives solely being comitted -or before Alex obsession, suspicion. within her work. She is trapped too falls prey to the seduction Reni's gifts to Alex do not in an unattractive world of of the murderous beauty. end with self-awareness. Even­
Russell's character has as-tually, Reni offers to share even sumed a new identity, calling Paul, her latest victim, with her herself Reni. She has begun a friend. As the two women face romance with an international each other in the end, each hotel maganate, Paul Nuytten recognizes a profound respect (Sami Frey). and liking for the other. Each 
The women become friends. also recognizes that ultimately computer terminals and green Reni offers Alex a heady trip they are adversaries, and that painted windows and longs to into a brand new world. Reni their confrontation must turn get out. When she discovers loans Alex seductive clothing. out both a victor and a loser. facts through her data-analysis invites her to glamourous par-The resolution of the plot is that point toward a pair of mur-ties, introduces her to attractive a bit of a let-down, using a ders, she becomes obsessed men. Reni puts her world Into cop-out plot-twist to avoid fol-with solving the case. Alex's hands, and a strange lowing the events to their natu-
The killer is a woman exchange of identities takes raJ conclusion. Unfortunately, (Theresa Russell) who makes place. Alex admires Reni's abll-the ending that is used also Russell is less well known to very best actresses. her living by targeting wealthy ity to manipulate men to get underscores most of the worst the average movie-goer, Dut The packaging surrounding men, seducing them, marrying what she wants. She begins to holes In the plot. she has a long history of criti­these two actresses is first-rate, them, and finally killing them. absorb and reflect Renl's confl-But it really Isn't the plot that cally respected performances, including the beautiful Alex locates the woman in dence and strength in her own makes this fllm, it's the linger-Including a debut at age cinematography of Academy Seattle, but is not In time to personality. ing character analyses that are eighteen In Elia Kazan's adap­Award winner (for "Butch Cas­prevent a third killing. Forced When the audience first met offered, and the tenslon-fllled tion of F. Scott Fitzgerald's sidy and the Sundance Kid") to choose between her job and Alex she was an unattractive, relationship between the "The Last Tycoon" opposite Conrad Hall, and the costum­the case, Alex quits the job, Insecure, repressed workaholic. protagonists. As neither of Robert DeNiro, "Straight Time" ing of four-time Oscar nominee sells her car and furniture, and She was uncomfortable with these elements are left out at with Dustin Hoffman, and most Patricia Norris. Both use their follows the woman to Hawaii. her sexuality, unable to deal the finish, the fllm does not recently the adaption of W. arts to subtly establish the 
When the two women finally with men except on a profes-disappoint. Somerset Maugham's "The transfromation of Alex as she meet that's where the movie sional level. Playwright David Winger, a double Oscar Razor's Edge" starring Bill Mur­leaves behind her drab world begins to surpass Its genre. Mamet ("Sexual Perversity in nominee (for "An Officer and A ray. and enters Reni's exotic one. Instead of an ordinary catch-Chicago" and "Glengarry Glen Gentleman" and "Terms of En-Russell's performance In this the-killer track and chase fllm, Ross") has a cameo appearan-dearment") gives a strong per-fllm Is brilliant, lending The fllm is a four-star pro­director Bob Rafelson ("Five ceearly In the tllm, as Herb, formance in a difficult role. She credibility to dubious plotllnes. duction leaves the audience Easy Pieces" "The King of Mar-one of Alex's co-workers at the plays the captivation and trans-Her Intensely convincing per­with several stellar perfor­vin Gardens" remake of "The Justice Department, who once formation of Alex with quiet formance captivates the audi­mances and at least one good Postman Always Rings Twice") took her to a football game on enough skill to make the quite ence with an almost tangible question to take home and gives us the compelling explo-a date. When asked how the drastic changes seem like natu-allure. This role will undoub­ponder. Black Widow -she ration of a complex relation-date went he replies "The ral unfoldings of a released tably be the one to mark her in mates and she kills. But does ship. 'Skins lost." personality. everyone's eyes as one of our she love? 
~~--------------------------------------~ 
singing food. These sequences are fun to watch and done in a

Pee-Wee 

form of animation that makes continued from page 1 It obvious to the viewers that It most controversial character Is Is artificial. This form of a 

Loads of styles, sizes, colors ... 

Miss Yvonne, a glamorous gal show Is very expensive. While who always wears low-cut normal cartoons cost about dresses, just one of the $250,000.00 for each half 
... and great prices 
reasons this Is no ordinary kids hour, "Playhouse" costs show. $325,000.00. In fact, the show Each character usually has a Is the most expensive in Satur­

TO BOOT! 
meaningful message to con­day morning history. vey. h'l one episode, for exam­The character of Pee-Wee, ple, Mrs. Steve wants to be­with his trademark laugh, Is come as beautiful as Miss someone that children can Yvonne. She asks Yvonne to learn from and relate to. He's 
1200 pairs of namebrand boots to choose from: 
make her beautiful. After a the Captain Kangaroo of today. whole series of hairdos and He learns from his friends and makeup jobs, Mrs. Steve teaches his viewers. 
*.MINNETONKA *ABILENE believes she Is beautiful. Pee­One of the best ways he 
MOCCASINS *DAN POST 
Wee, however, notices that Mrs. teaches Is through his famed 
*ACME *TEXAS
Steve looks no different than "word of the day." At the 

*TONY LAMA *CAPEllO
she did before the makeover. beginning of the show, Pee Yvonne tells Pee-Wee that Wee announces a word that 
*DINGO *IMPERIAL everyone Is beautiful In his own has been designated as the 
*JUSTIN way; It just takes some self "word of the day." Whenever confidence and encouragement the word Is used during the to make some people realize it. show, everyone pauses and 
Infant size 4 through 
What makes "Pee-Wee's screams, Pee-Wee's scream Playhouse" so successful? First, being the most prominent. The 
men's size 14 
It Is a welcome relief for those concept seems odd, but it does who are tired of endless hours show the younger viewers dif­of cartoons. Pee:wee usually ferent ways of using and inter­shows one cartoon during his preting the word. In addition, show, but most of the show It's entertaining. Involves real people. Second, "Pee-Wee's Playhouse" is a when the show does use show for children and adults animation, It Is unusual and alike. The show's comedy is unique. For example, Pee-Wee innocent and entertaining. In often turns into a small addition, the show offers an 
~~ 
~AHC~
animated form so that he can alternative to the mindless car­do wonderful things such as toons to which Saturday mor­swim underwater In a cartoon ning viewers have become all 
One mile north on Fir Road 
or take a ride In space on his too accustomed. It just goes to 
55345 Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545
bike. show you that Saturday mor­Pee-Wee also has a ning television's not just for 
(219) 259-1188 
refrigerator full of dancing and children anymore. 








The Observer-February 20, 1987_ 
The Observer/Susan Coene 
River Park Theatre In Mishawaka 

Where art can be found 
DON SEYMOUR features writer 

Students looking for a theater that shows foreign and American art tllms and who want more recent products than the Snlte usually offers now have a place to go. 
The River Park Theatre, on Mis­hawaka Avenue, In South Bend offers a series of critically­successful films not usually shown In commercial theaters. Recent fllms shown there include "Down By Law," "She's Gatta Have It," and "Three Men and a Cradle." According to Nancy Aiken, manager of the Forum I & II Cinema and head of advertising for the River Park. theater man­agement brought back art tllms because a certain audience kept asking about them. The new owners of the theater realize they are not going to get huge crowds, but they feel committed to give the project a good try. 
A similar program at the theater In 1985 called the Premelr Classics Series failed to attract an audience, and the theater returned to showing mainstream, commercial fllms. 
The new owner of the River Park Is Frank Randazzo, who bought It from Jerome Vogel, whose family owned the theater for many years. Randazzo Is a member of the family that also owns the Forum I & II Cinema, In South Bend, and the I00 Cen­ter Cinema I & 11, In Mishawaka. 
Admission price for adults at the River Park Is $.3. Aiken admits this Is to attract students. The theater Is located at 2929 Mis­hawaka Avenue. 
Aiken says she gets lots ofcalls from students asking directions to the theater. Students should take Eddy Street past five cor­ners, through three more lights, to the Mishawaka Avenue exit. Once on Mishawaka Avenue, the theater Is approximately one mile away, on the left. 
Pictures of games?! Parties?! Family?! Friends?! 
1-Hour, Same Day, Next Day Service 1­Hour Portrait Proofs 
Scene-Page 3 

The Scoop 



20o/o off every 
purchase at all 
times with NO or 
SMC stude.nt 1.0. 
"GRADUATION PORTRAITS" 
Studio & location, film, develop & print, enlarge­ments photo accessories, b & w, color, slides, poster prints, and related Items! 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 
AFTH 

SUN 
by Nicholas A. Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10pm Thursday, February 26, 8:10 pm friday, February 27, 8:10 pm Saturday, February 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, 3:10 pm 
WASHINGTON HALL SJ General Admission $2 Sludenls, Senior Clllzens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday Washington Hall Ticket ornce 
12 noon-6 pm weekdays Master Car<Wisa orders: 239-5957 

jMusic 


The Notre Dame Music De­partment Is sponsoring a voice recital by Patrick Maloney. The performance will be Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. For more Informa­tion contact Eric Kuhner at 
2.39-6201' 
The Notre Dame Music De­partment welcomes the Goshen College Chamber Choir Sunday night to Sacred Heart Church at 8 p.m. For more Information call Eric Kuhner at 2.39-620 I. 
South Bend welcomes rock star Rick Cua to the Bendix Theater In the Century Center tonight. The new music band "Out of the Blue" from Chicago will be opening the show. The performance will begin at 7:.30 
p.m. and tickets are $5. 


IMoviesA'tl 
' 
The Student Activities Board presents " ... About Last Night " tomorrow night In the Engi­neering Auditorium. This movie stars Rob Lowe and Deml Moore as two people who have a physical relationship but don't know how to deepen It into an emotional commitment. Shows begin at 7, 9: 15, and I 1:.30 p.m. Admission Is $ 1.50. 


Rob Lowe 
"My Beautiful Laundrette" will be showing tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. This daring social commentary from England takes a provocative and uncompromising look at life In the slums of South Lon­don, while challenging a great many misconceptions about class, life, and love. Shows start at 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. Admission Is $1 .50. 
The IUSB Film Series will present "The Graduate" Sunday night at 8 p.m. In the Northside Little Theatre. For more Information call 2.37­4278. 
A guide to movie theaters In the South BendtMishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S. .31 N. 
277-1522 
Now playing: Light of Day, From the Nip, Hoosiers, and Hannah and Her Sisters. 100 Center Cinema I and II 
I 00 Center, Mishawaka 
259-04-14 
Now playing: Star Trek IV and Crocodile Dundee. 
'Mannequin' at U. P. Mall 

River Park Theatre 
2929 Mishawaka Ave. 

288-8488 Scottsdale Theatre 
115.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-4-58.3 

Now playing: Dead of Winter and Black Widow. Town and Country Theatre 
2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka 259-9090 

Now playing: Golden Child, Dead of Winter, The Mission, and Platoon. University Park Cinema I, II and Ill 
.366 University Park Mall 
277-04-41 
Now playing: Mannequin, Lady and the Tramp, Mosquito Coast. and Bedroom Window. 
Call the respective theaters for prices and showtimes. 
Art 
The exhibition "Directions In American Painting 1875-1925" will be on display at the Snlte Museum of Art through April 5. The collection focuses on French Impressionists and other famous American painters from that era Including John Singer Sargent and Mary Cassatt. The collection was organized by the Carnegie Institute, and has been travell-Ing the country since 1982. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Satur­day; I p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday; and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday. The museum Is closed on Mondays and Holidays. 

The Saint Mary's campus galleries this weekend continue to host two art exhibits. "Ruth Sinclair's Personal Papers" will be displayed at the Moreau Gallery and "Robert Berkshire's Paintings and Drawings" go on exhibit at the Little Theatre and Hammes Galleries. Gallery hours are 9:.30 to noon, I to .3 p.m. Monday though Friday and Sun­day 1 to .3 p.m. Both exhibits will be on display through Feb. 20. 


Masses for this weekend at Sacred Heart Church are: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and I 0:.30 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. 


The Observer-February 20, 1987 

Are midterms wearing you 
down? 
Has the Dome become an eyesore in your daily routine? 
Well, take heart. Only a fortnight and a week are left to go. 
Spring Break is an oasis near at hand. On these pages you will find eight stylish modes of escape. 
However you choose to depart, and wherever you plan to go, the break with the ordi­nary schedule of your day will undoubtedly benefit the soul. 
photography by James Carroll 
------------------------------------------------~ 

Scene-P es4-5 



-

The Observer-February 20, 1987 Scene-Page 6 


Los Lobos goes contemporary 
TIM ADAMS Song characters aren't merely the band's traditional Tex­features writer pawns manipulated for didactic Mex!early rock 'n' roll sound. purposes, because they're too 11~·ve got no money/ But real to us, too familiar. The songwriting pair also 
VVwe've got our lives" sings The young girl who wishes contribute the chunky blues guitarist David Hidalgo in "The for a life of heaven but instead tune "Is This All There Is?", the Mess We're In," and one can't finds herself as "somebody's tender, waltz-ish "Tears of help but suspect that's about wife," or the little boy who is God" and "All I Wanted to Do as close as Los Lobos get to hit by a car and never gets a Was Dance," a spicy, accordian­delineating any one "message" chance to grow up to become injected dance number; the on their new album, By the a preacher, a teacher or a cop -only thing that's obvious about Light of the Moon. these are people for whom life all their songs are their diver­
I 
in America isn't so sweet. But sity. Los Lobos don't use their Rosas, on the other hand,
Records 

stories as an indictment of sticks with the party songs.

,......~ By the light 

their country; rather, their "Set Me Free (Rosa Lee)" is ~\ of the moon songs simply flesh out what Motown soul reinterpreted for 
I 
\'\ ~ Los Lobos can happen in a country so the '80s. Not a bad concept in vast and full of possibilities. itself, but it's difficult to differ­Theirs is a vision of America; In general, the compositions entiate the song's bad-girl con­not the America as dreamed up of David Hidalgo and drummer tent from the bad-girl lyrics of 
by jingoistic flag-wavers nor Louie Perez encompass this "My Baby's Gone" and "Shakln' even the land of greed and op­record's more introspective Shakln' Shakes," his two other pression It Is made out to be moments, and they stand in contributions. All nice songs to by your typical "politically con­contrast to guitarist Cesar hear, but pretty limited idea­cerned" rock band, but rather Rosas' upbeat. meatier­wise. an America that guarantees an sounding tales of love and love Except for a few repetitions opportunity and not much lost. The lightly rolling "One on the part of Rosas, By the more. Time, One Night." as well as Light of the Moon flows along that's strong on content and "The tears of God will show 
Perhaps the most attractive "The Hardest Time" and "The very smoothly, through stories loaded with musical vitality. you the way." That doesn't feature of this primarily East­Mess We're In" are excellent and snippets that present Quite purposefully, It all ends sound like much, but to Los 
L.A. quintet Is their ability to contemporary songs that seem themselves as they are but do on a pretty note In "Tears of Lobos, it seems, that's all the ensconce the listener squarely to pinpoint Hidalgo and Perez not proclaim answers. What God," an appeal to faith in light one needs to get by in a In their not so far-fetched tales. as the main forces In updating results is a very good album which Hidalgo and Perez croon, place like America. 

Duran Duran is' Notoriously'un-cool 

KRIS MURPHY features writer 
R
emember Duran Duran? Neither do I. They've been pretty scarce since 1984's Seven and the Ragged Tiger, only managing to release two singles and a vapid live album since then. 

-
Records 
Notorious 
Duran Duran 
These British teeny bopper heroes have been more Inter­ested in their spin-off bands, the Power Station and Arcadia, of late. Not that I really missed them. The sight of 10 thousand teenage girls on MTV going Into a coma as Simon LeBon sang "Girls on Film" al­ways made Ozzy Osbourne look like an Intellectual. 
Bu~ anyway Duran Duran is back with Notorious and they seem to be undergoing an Identity crisis. To begin with only three of the band's original members are left. Those three are Simon LeBon, keyboardist Nick Rhodes, and bassist John Taylor. Drummer Roger Taylor quit because of "exhaustion" and guitarist Andy Taylor left to go solo and a trendy-looking pony tail al­though he does make on ap­perance on Notorious. 

-
Hi Mom 

.... 
Love, 
H. 


well. "Notorious" Is lean and single and boasts some tasty tight and genuinely catchy. In horn parts and a great sleazy short its irresistable. The only bump and grind atmosphere. problem is that it borrows This is where the fun stops liberally from Prince's "Kiss". In though. other words Duran Duran has lost any shred of originality The rest of side one Is only that it once had during its mildly annoying but side two is three year hiatus. To make up a mess. "Vertigo (Do the for that they now rely on Demolition)" is a morass of proven methods and a top sludgy power chords and plod­producer like Rodgers to bring ding vocals. "Meet El in the hits. Presidente" has the stupidest 
That's no great sin in the song title so far this year as world of Top 40 Pop. If its well as sounding like someth­catchy and it sounds good in ing Whaml refused to record. the clubs and on the radio who "Winter Marches On" tries to cares right? Well that strategy be "arty" but ends up bogged is great as long as you can down In a useless string sec­keep it up. tion and LeBon's hopelessly 
Unfortunately, Duran Duran trite lyrics. Filling the gap as producer his patented "big bass and big can only keep it up for three 
and guitarist is Nile Rodgers, drums so you can dance" pro­songs on Notorious. "American To top it all off the album former co-leader of Chic duction and a lot of funky Science" steals its synth line cover looks like a Calvin Klein (remember "Le Freak" and guitar fills. from Billy Idol's "Eyes Without ad. As a band Duran Duran is "Good Times"?) and Madonna's On the albums's first single a Face" but the chorus is a kil­dead. As a marketing ploy they producer. He gives the album "Notorious" these tactics work ler. "Skin Trade" is the new 
could go on for years. 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAYJOHN!! (SCOOP) 
YOU ARE A SUPER 
tw• SON & BROTHER!!! 
ilih 

February 20th LOVEALWAYS, 
MOM, DAD, SMILE!!! KATHY& DANNY 

-

The Observer-February 20, 1987 Scene-Page 7 


BurningS 
Special to The Observer 

A 
t Its best, reggae Is a spiri­broader audience with the tually uplifting music, a release of the new LP, People transporting experience. When of the World, and promoting It Winston Rodney, the Jamaican with a world tour. slnge&'Songwrlter who goes by Burning Spear and his band the name of Burning Spear are finishing up the U.S. part plays reggae music, body and of a world tour with dates in mind are engaged totally. South Bend, Bloomington and 
For two decades, Burning Chicago, to promote the album Spear has been In the van­"People of the World," recently guard of reggae music. He has released by Slash Records and Influenced a generation of distributed by Warner Brothers. roots reggae artists, and even People of The World Is, by 3 few new wave musicians, In­far, Burning Spear's most cluding Sting, The Clash and modern sounding record, yet It the Talking Heads, touring with still retains the inspirational the latter two In 1981. messages characteristic of his 
For nearly two decades Win­music. The album blends ston Rodney, the man called 'Spear's lyrical gifts with the Burning Spear, has been a vet­powerful instrumental sounds eran slnge&'Songwrlter of of the Burning Band (his nine­reggae music. Though he may piece back up force) and the not be as popular In the U.S. U-3 horn section. This trio of 
Burning Spear

as Bob Marley, Jimmy Cliff or American women, a sight sel­one of the other few reggae dom If ever seen before in a adding a new dimension to the than any other. 'Spear has set In 1986. One could hardly artists to have made reggae band, replaces the long band. forth. The band manages to expect anything less of this breakthroughs here, Burning time Burning Brass. These There Is a more precise, Integrate styles ranging from masterpiece. Out of all the Spear Is attempting to reach a ladles are truly exceptional, polished edge to this album blues and jazz to rock. calypso reggae albums to come out 
and African, all within the after Marley's death, People Of "roots" reggae realm associ­The World Is surely one of the
*************************************************** 
! SMC Student Government ! ated with 'Spear's music. Check best. As a result 'Spear Is out "Seville Land," a song frequently mentioned among about Jamaica's first sugar those most likely to assume
E {il presents $: ! 
plantation in what Is now St. leadership In reggae music Ann's Bay, the birthplace of today.:: s Carnival ~.o~ :: Burning Spear, Bob Marley and Onstage, 'Spear starts out Black nationalist leader Marcus like a storm, calm and slow,
E ..~1\t\te u, :: 
Garvey. Garvey has been an then whips Into an Intense Inspiration for much of Burning fervor, delivering his cries of
:: "14~ Feb. 19 -21 SMC ! Spear's music. In fact In 1975 unity and "Rastafarl," a religion
* ~ * 'Spear's voice first reached favored by many Jamaican
* ~ ql * 
American ears with the release reggae artists. 'Spear brings
: d"'"-J ~ p 4 : 
of the LP, Marcus Garvey. you to sprltltual heights one
* .....~ ...~to~'t\~ o~~ ellq'g_IJte * On the album Itself, we hear might experience In church, some blues jammln' on "Dis­uplifting and life-giving.
: <:«-:~e r,..'l}.{) fb<l o'l>-~ ~ : tant Drums" and "No Worry Burning Spear and his nine­Yourself." The standout cut piece Burning Band will Ignite though, Is "Who's The Winner," the stage of Mitchell's Indiana
! ·c~"~?>-~'-';) ~«,~ G00 o' ! 
with a trumpet solo by Pamela Club in South Bend on Mon­! ~~ ~ _...\~~o' e ~~ ! Fleming that Is fantastic. An­day, February 23 at 8 p.m. other track not to overlook Is Moja-Nya, New York City's hot­
:: v 0~ ~, ~ ~~n~ o..S ,, : 
the reworking of Starshlp's test reggae act will warm up:: '2J~ ~,,:"\~'I~~\'/)"" ~ ·~CJ' o.~· ! "Built This City" Into a reggae 
the stage before 'Spear sets It anthem, proclaiming the city on fire with his roots rock
: 0( ~~ ~e ~e· A~e.......~trJ ~~ : 
built on reggae. reggae style.
* ~ \0~ o0 oV. 4.•' ",. ~ ~ * This album should also be Tickets for the Burning Spear easy to grasp for non-reggae show cost $10 and are avail­
fans, because the boundaries able at Mitchell's and the fol­
cross over Into a broad spec­lowing locations: Record Con­trum of music. Of the title, nection, Easy Shopping Place, 
! ~'t~~o~ ~,~'0~ v'lf~o~~~t> i 
* ~0 * 
'Spear says, "All people have Elkhart; Super Sounds, Con­
* *
* * been through a struggle and all cord Mall, Elkhart; Just For the * * Record, Town and Country,
of us have a problem. People

*************************************************** 
of the world, we are on." Mishawaka; Nlghtwlnds . Resistance, 'Spear's album Records, 100 Center, Mis­
-------Notre Dame Communication and Film Series-----· 
prior to People of The World, hawaka and North VIllage Mall, 
This week at the Snlte: 

was nominated for a Grammy South Berid. 
My Beautiful Launderette (1986) Color, 93 minutes, directed by Stephen Frears, Great Britain Friday, February 20, 7:30 and 9:30p.m., Snite 

TELE-TRIVIA
A daring social commentary from England, this provocative film takes an uncompromising look at life in the slums of South London. In this environment, two youths, a Pakistani 
GILLIGAN'S ISLAND 
immigrant and an alienated punk native, try to keep a small business and their personal relationship alive. Directed with great style and intensity, "Laundrette" is a thoughtful and compassionate film that challenges a great many misconceptions about class, life and love. 
1. How did they get stranded on The Island in tbe first place? 
2. When were they finally rescued from Gilligan's
The Conversation (1974) 
Island?
Color, 113 minutes, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, USA 3. What mistake did they all make again? 

Monday, February 23, 7 p.m., Snite 4. When they converted the Island iato a TouristAn obsessive surveillance expert (Gene Hackman) becomes personally involved in a case, Resort, what famous Basketball team dropped in? 

-
finding himself pulled into murder and high-level power plays. Perhaps Coppola's most 5. Who was the only one of the original .cast members 
brilliant (and underrated) film among the strong early work. 

who did not appear on "Rescue From Gilligan's Island?" 
Remember My Name (1978) Color, 101 minutes, directed by Alan Rudolph, USA 

*************** 
Monday, February 23, 9 p.m., Snite The film preceding "Choose Me" and "Trouble in Mind" stars Geraldine Chaplin as an 
·pu.As 'lq.SmiN=>W 'L86l@

ex-con who, having taken the rap for lover Anthony Perkins, gets out of jail only to discover 
(lUliJD Ja.S1J!DI 98!110'1 U1J!.L ·g
that he has married another woman. Rudolph's quirky, non-genre film of great originality 
·sJanoJ'laqom wat..nrH aq.1 ·t 
was produced by Robert Altman. 

'PUli(S! aurns aq'l uo papUliJlS dn pua 01 A(UO 'aS!n.IO uo!UnaJ u JOJ II moUUJW aq1 ao lUaM .Aaq.L ·g Manhattan (1979) 
'8L6l JO Jaqol;)() 'Z BW, cinemascope, 96 minutes, directed by Woody Allen, USA 
·pUli(SI O!J!O'Bd q'lnos pa'IJUqoun Ull uo lf:>eJM aq'l .S1J!snuo 'WJQlS u U!
Tuesday, February 24, 7:30p.m., Snite 

:Jq.Snuo a.JaM pUll AlJUd aB!n.IO .3u!qsy u uo a.mM .Aatt.L ·y
Chronicling Allen's search for the ideal relationship (from Meryl Steep to Diane Keaton to VIAili.L ~'1~.1 O.L Sli~A\SNV
Mariel Hemingway), "Manhattan" is at once a delightful comedy and a passionate and gentle love song to New York City and its inhabitants. 
-
---------------. The Observer-February 20, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
What's the matter with Charlie? 
I 
n reading a reprint from style regulated by a schedule Some of the moderns have Newsweek. "A Priest's Pain­conducive to prayer, study, and even lost the sense of Him as ful Choice, " in Feb. 15's Religi­recreation. We were grown-ups Christ. a title that means He's ous Bulletin, I found myself and happy to be seminarians, the Messiah. The de­saying, ''That's not the way it learning the mutual concern mythologlzers prefer to merely is." which would keep us close as a call Him a prophet of Nazareth, 
Obviously if Father Charles family. Eccentricities or sen­an executed criminal. Burns says so, that's the way it timentality would have been a But He was Christ the Son of is with him. He was left emo­nuisance and an embarrass­the living God. God was "Ab­tionally undeveloped and fear­ment totally out of place. ba," His own dear Father; did ful of Intimacy by his Jesuit One of the priests in the He not know Himself to be the 

only-begotten Son? The Creed recognizes this when It says He
Father Robert Griffin 
Is one In Being with the Father. He cried out as He was dying,
Letters to a Lonely God 
"My God, my God, Why have you abandoned Me?" recog­-nizable as the first line of the seminary training. In assisting theologate was flat on his back messianic Psalm 22. As the AIDS patients, they had to In the hospital with arthritis. I Suffering Servant mentioned by 
teach him how to be spon­met him on the day his mother Isaiah, He may have ap­taneous with his display of died; his disability didn't allow propriated that song of sufffer­feelings. If he's a representa­him the option of attending the lng as His prayer, said in its tive priest needing to be shown funeral. He spent an hour or entirety as He was dying. The how to be in touch with his two that afternoon being kind Gospels tell us of His praying feelings, obviously the Church to me as a newcomer to the as He suffered, a prayer which Is to blame for turning house. Later, when he returned turned that bloody ordeal into youngsters into zombies. Some to the seminary to teach us, he an act of worship for the Fa­priests are Introverts, others as showed us his wit --sometimes ther. charmless as dead fish. Per• his temper--but he never com­haps the milk they were plained about the suffering that The old timers, offering it weaned on was laced with handicapped him, even though up, joined their pains to His raven's blood, but even raven's he had to wear a brace and pain so that their rough times blood wouldn't help if the sem­carry a cane. This was his per­could be efficacious as part of Inary makes a point of neuter­sonal cross, and he didn't ask His prayerful worship. Ing the passions of Its candi­us to share it. During his years dates. as my teacher, he set an exam­It would be mealy-mouthed 
I feel sorry for Father Burns, ple as a good priest with a to want to upstage Charlie in or "Charlie," as he prefers to profound faith and an ability to his ministry to AIDS patients. be called. The seminary rules enjoy life. His severe arthritis After all, he may not subscribe made sense to me though, but wasn't anything we thought to the theology of "offering it I wasn't trained as a Jesuit. We about as we sat In his class. up." But couldn't the Cross of were being prepared for All these years later, he may the Lamb of God, nailed be­lifetime membership In a religi­not appreciate my mentioning tween two thieves, serve as a ous community. No rule has it now. I only do so to cite him bridge over troubled waters, a ever been written that could for his example of grace under Jacob's ladder, to a sick person force you to like each of your pressure as a community mem­embittered by a fate he feels classmates equally well. Frater­ber you could love as a father­he doesn't deserve? Wouldn't it nal charity was an Ideal you figure or as an elder brother. help him to hear about the 
... were expected to strive for. You Older Christians, close to the promise to the loser who be­couldn't pick a few cronies and Cross, used to talk of offering came a winner when he was Ignore everyone else. You up their sufferings in union told: "Today, you shall be with couldn't constantly pair off with with Christ. You don't hear me in Paradise?" You don't ram a pal in a way that made others much about that these days. faith down a dying's man 
uncomfortable at being ex­cluded from your company. We grew comfortable with a life-
THERE'S STILL 
TIME TO PREPARE. 
~ 

GRE •GlfAT •NCLEX
Furniture Arriving Dally!! ~ 
~ 
Located in former JC Penney store, 

6116 LSAT
downtown South Bend, at Michigan and Wayne Streets. 

Classes Starting 2/21
liJJ.. Complete Double Beds $95.00 Lamps $20.00 Chairs $12.00 Dressers $55.00 Desks $40.00 
plus mirrors, drapes, tables, carpet, sofas and MUCH, MUCH MORE! 

-
Open Daily 9am -6pm; Sunday 12-Spm 

5TANlfY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER IJD.
UNTIL SOLD OUT! 

The worlds leading test prep organization 
Phone: 288-6630 CAll DAYS. MNINGS AND WEIICENDS. WE ARIINROWNG NOW! 
1711 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4115 South Bend, IN ~17 
throat, but you don't abdicate the truth you live by, either. You pray for the grace of being sensitive. A priest on the defen­sive is not apt to find the op­portunity to suggest that the sadness of death and dying be offered as a prayer to Christ Crucified, though It might help a patient to know his suffering Isn't wasted. Charlie, writing of Kevin, says, "That wasted body was not about to give In to su­perstition, nor was he about to 
feign being accepted Into the arms of a church that had spent the greater part of his 
life rejecting him. I became awed by the power of the man and almost asked his blessing. 
Now, I wish I had." 
If this were an old movie -­James cagney as Rocky telling Pat O'Brien as Father Duffy, "I don't need you. "--I know how the scene would turn out. But life is not as simplistic as a Hollywood script. 
Rocky, in a foxhole some­where in no man's land, breathes an act of contrition in the chaplain's ear. Kevin isn't Rocky though, and he sure as heck isn't Huck Finn saving Jim from being returned to slavery by the brave decision: "I'll go to hell." Kevin, rejecting the Church, is also not the prob­lem in this story. I feel bad for a priest whose faith in the Church fails him in a crisis, but I'd like to protest the pastoral badmouthing he wrote for Newsweek a5 though defending a principle. I've been a priest twice as long as Charlie has and met many tough custom­ers. You don't reject them, but you don't let them get away with rejecting you. If Charlie wants to say, as Bernanos's country priest says, '"Everyth­ing is grace,' so I'm not worried about Kevin," it could all be quite beautiful. Perhaps it's beautiful even as Charlie 
tells it. but how could it be 
beautiful if he insists on 
making the Church look 
c;habt>y for not jumping on the Stree· _ar N<tmed Desire as 
though it were a bandwagon? 
AIDS patients are tragic, es­pecially when you see them dying young. As the AIDS crisis grows, let's not spread the idea that catholic priests have to be embarrassed to offer them the sacraments. Charlie has love to give away, but he needs some­one to Jove him so that he can grow up as a priest. He wants a man to call him "Father," but I wonder if he knows who he is. If he's symbolic to the Church as a priest, then he's also sym­bolic to Kevin and Bobby as a priest willing to blur his rela­tionship to the Church for their sakes. can Charlie love them 3s wisely as the Church loves them? 
He confuses sympathy with sentimentality and calls It com­passion. Is this more important to dying men than an aware­ness of the Risen Son? Laughter, the risus paschalis, used to be a part of the Easter liturgy. It used to be that the homily had to include a joke at which the congrgation could laugh. Today, catholics who should know better treat the Church as a joke, and some priests hand out bitterness as though it were a sacrament. 
Charlie makes himself sound as though he had been still­born as a priest. I wouldn't mention it If he hadn't pub­lished his own obituary. I, for one, would like to welcome him back to the reservation. He's the kind of priest the Church needs in a crisis, once he finds out that it doesn't hurt anyone to heftr that the way of the Cross leads home. 
TURN BROWN EYES BLUE!! 

here's no obligation to buy 
Now is the time to see what you will look like with 
different colored er,es. We know that you'll love how look so mu~h, you 11 want a pair or two for your personal eye cosmetic wardrobe. 
Even if you don't need glasses ... 
Tinted soft contact lenses are the ultimate eye cosmetic. 
We have every type in aqua, blue, green and brown. 
At Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical you11 find everything 
you need to customize your eyes. A thorough eye examination required at the nme of purchase, will detennine what prescription, ifany, IS necessary. 

"The ultimate eye cosmetic 
will give you a new outlook on life. And that's a promise from the doctor." 
; 
~-ocV/SA]ip 1!0 

South Bend Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center acroos from Scottsdale Mall next door to Osco Dru~t 
291-4000 258-5000 
-
--------~ --------~--------~ ~~­
The Observer 
Communications Director linked to Nazis as a youth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan on Thursday picked a former correspondent and ex­ecutive for The Associated Press to see that Reagan's "goals for the coming two years are clearly and effec­tively articulated to the Amer­ican people." 
John Koehler was named White House communications director to succeed Patrick Buchanan, who has resigned effective March 1 and has not announced his future plans. 
Koehler, who retired from the AP in 1985, is currently an adviser to Charles Wick, direc­tor of the U.S. Information Agency and a long-time friend of the president.. 
NBC news reported late Thursday that Koehler was for six months a member of a Nazi youth group in Germany when he was 10 years old. 
Koehler, a native of Ger­many, confirmed the report, but said the group, Jungvolk, was "a boy scout group run by the Nazis." 
"Yes, I was a member of the boy scouts run by the Nazi party when I was 10 years old," Koehler said in a telephone in­terview. He said he was an­gered by the news report and said it was not newsworthy. 
"It was when I was 10 years old. It would be newsworthy if I was 30 years old and was a member of the SS or the Nazi party," he said. "If this is newsworthy what I did at age 10, then it was also newsworthy that I was married to a Jewish woman. 
"Does anybody do anything at age 10 that's really volun­tary?" he said. "You don't even think for yourself then. 
"My hunch is somebody said it in jest," he said. "It's just another thing to do in Ronald Reagan." 
Koehler said his participa­tion in the group as a youngster was irrelevant to his qualifica­tions for the White House job. 
''All I can say is if I was good enough to serve in the AP for 28 years, then by God, it was a blot on the AP too," he said. 


Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 

18081 State R«*i 23 
Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Band, Indiana 48837 (219) 277·2870 


SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 
( l..'llht lor 
~11..1,1 
( ollt\lfh 
Find out more from Father McDonnell Tues. Feb. 24 & Wed. Feb. 25 9-4 pm Center for Social Concerns 

Contact Mary Ann Roemer 289-7949 

ne CetMot 
PANCAKE 
HOUSE 

FU&i6j Retoawt 
WELCOME NO JUNIOR PARENTS 
Special All 
This Month! 
Our Specialty lxtra Large Oven Baked 

APPLE PANCAKES and all CREPES! 
$100

No Restrictions No Coupons OFF NHCitd ThN Feb. '87 
Open 7 Days a Week at 6:30 A.M. 
U.S. 31 (Dilimy) Mirth In Rasaland-(Acms M lllliday Inn) 212-1433 
Friday, February 20, 1987-page 9 

Handcuffed 
AP Photo 

An unidentified man is searched and hand-by more than 200 Ku Klux Klan mar(' hers which cuffed in College Park, Ga., during a parade resulted in two arrests. 
Ward, ND grad, to campaign again 
Associated Press support for another campaign 
in 1988. 
Since returning to his law 

KNOX, Ind. -Democrat practice last month, Ward says Thomas Ward, the loser in the he has approached private con­nation's closest 1986 congres-tributors and the political fund­sional race, said Thursday he raising arms of interest groups is quietly lining up money and for promises of help next year. 
The Observer Is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
1987-88 Managing Editor and Business Manager 
A resume and a one-page personal statement Is dueto Kevin Becker by 5 PM, Tuesday, February 24. 

3rd Floor 
Lafortune Student Center 
239-5303 
GRADUATE NURSES 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a graduate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week-long, fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Graduates apply now for positions available in 1987. Starting salary $23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acute care Mayo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester, MN 55902 Call Collect: (507) 286-7091 

The Knox attorney has also talked with 3rd District party leaders in an attempt to ensure their support in the May 1988 primary election. 
Ward, who came within 66 votes of Republican Rep. John Hiler in the Nov. 4 election, says he feels assured of early, strong financial and political backing from Democrats in the district and in Washington. 
Ward was little known out­side Starke County when dis­trict party leaders endorsed his candidacy early in 1986. Some Democratic campaign con­tributors who held back last year appear to have more con­fidence in Ward's chances of winning in 1988, he said. "They don't want to miss the boat next time," he said. 
The 1986 campaign, and the recount that followed at Ward's request, left·Ward saddled with debts totaling about $63,000. Hiler won the recount by 47 votes. 
The tab for a credible chal­lenge against the Republican candidate next year could reach $500,000, he said. The fig­ure is almost three times the amount Ward spent for his 1986 campaign. 
"Time will tell whether we can raise that much," he said. "It sounds obscene, but it may be realistic to raise and spend that much." 
At least four other Indiana congressional candidates spent nearly that much in 1986 cam­paigns: Democrat Jim Jontz and GOP candidate James Butcher in the 5th District, which Jontz won; and Demo­cratic incumbent Frank Mc­Closkey and Republican chal­lenger Rick Mcintyre in the 8th District, which McCloskey won. 
Professional political fundraisers say challengers must be able to raise around $500,000 to mount a competitive campaign against an incum­bent, Ward said. "So in a sense, we kind of proved the conven­tional wisdom wrong," he said. 
Hiler has said he will decide later whether to seek a fifth term in Congress. 
"ieVV~_O_l_•ll__t_______________Fri-day,_Feb-ruary-2o,_19s7~-pag~elo 
Prevailing opinions often factually mistaken 
I am not furiously angry about anyth­ing in particular. I do not feel like being intensely sarcastic about any "relevant" issue. Itis just that recently I have come to realize that not everyone is entitled to a point of view on every issue. I have no right to argue with a nuclear physicist about quantum mec­hanics. I am not qualified. I am not qualified to discuss westerns with Reagan, especially as they are his way of life (you know: the cliches, the an­gelic face, the black and white and so on). 
Evan Smith 
guest column 

There was once a time when I thought I could change the world. I thought I could bring people to see the world as it is and not as they wished it were. That was when I believed man to be rational. 
I believed that everyone was, indeed, entitled to their opinion. I have felt, for many years, that people are poor be­-cause they have no alternative. In dis­cussions on the U.S., disagreements I have had with people have very often been reduced to my views on the poor versus the far more persuasive view that people are poor because they are lazy. For years I have agreed with my opponents to call it a truce when this point was reached, thinking to myself that they are entitled to their opinions. Most probably as a result of the iso­lated nature of this area, these argu­
ments had become for me abstract ideological discussions. I had, in some sense, been . sucked into Reagan's dreamworld by his little generals on campus. I had almost been reduced to their inability to mix dreams with reality--except that my dreams, pos­sibly by chance, referred to reality. 
A recent exposure to reality has changed all of that. I now know, beyond a shadow of doubt, that most people are poor, not because they are lazy, but be­cause they lack the opportunities we have been given. What that means is that they are not free. A state cannot be truly free unless it affords each of its citizens an equal chance. So what is the U.S.? It is a democracy in which the average voter is so poorly educated and informed about the world that he would actually vote for Reagan twice! As George Bernard Shaw put it: "Democracy substitutes election by the incompetent many for appointment by the corrupt few." 
It is not that I am right in any abso­lute sense of that word but probably more importantly that all of those who believe in the laziness of the poor are wrong. It is that simple. In order to have a valid opinion on society it must be based on facts -that involves real­izing that the poor are so because they have to be. This implies that they are not as free as we are. From here, all valid opinions on the forming of a civilized free society must originate. It is not so much that I am right, but much more that Reagan and his armies are wrong. You need not agree with me but you have no right to actively disagree if you do not accept the facts. This means that you may not vote in favor of any policy based on the "laziness of the poor" idea because you must be, of necessity, uninformed. It is a sad reality that in a democracy of fools an opinion is an action. A person holding the belief that the poor are lazy causes an increase in suffering. If you accept the facts you are entitled to logically conclude anything you wish. If you do this I will respect you for it but if you do not I will not. Many of the more in­dependent "clones" at lunch are prob­ably saying to themselves that they do not need my opinion of them. Indeed they are right, for my opinion of them is only important to me. It is they who must sit down to assess their views and possibly take a look at the world as it is. 
The world may or may not be a com­plex place but it is certainly not as simplistic as Reagan envisions it. Com­munism is not better or worse than capitalism, but being a communist is not the only alternative to being a dem­ocrat or a republican. One other option is that of being a caring human being. 
Truly, I hope I have spoiled your lunch. Living is too easy if you ignore the world ("Drivin' with your eyes closed" as Don Henley phrases it). If it is easy for us, then you can be sure it is hard for someone else. If drunk driving is wrong how immoral must blind driving be. I believe we owe those less fortunate than ourselves someth­ing and I know that we may not desert them simply because we have a padded wallet backing us up. 

Is it not the American who says: "In­nocent until proven guilty." A noble aspiration. What does it mean? It means that saying people are poor be­cause they are lazy is a violation of our democratic and legal principles as this view is clearly a bias with little or no basis in the real world. My evidence has been presented. I realize that most of you have not had a chance to look at it yet because it is, of course, the real world. The world is my first and only exhibit. I dare you to look at it. 
I know you will not change if you believe the poor to be lazy. All of your life you have been led on a string. Why should you try to break it now? I used to wonder when people would change but now I know they never will. When I die people will still be suffering and, in some sense, that will make me sad but you will die happy because you never cared. If there is a heaven I wonder who will be there. If, when I die, you are there I hope I am sent to hell. If there is no heaven I wonder if your selfish life will let you die as happy as you think it will. Finish your lunch and lead your life but maybe on your deathbed you will remember this. If you do I only hope you are not too late, because if I were the judge you would be. I do not envy your empty life. 
A group of people who think I am wrong will not make me wrong. Ul­timately you will have to decide on your own. That might be hard for you. 
Evan Smyth is a sophomore architec­ture major. 
'Moderate' label often varies within context 
What exactly is a moderate? Nobody seems to know. Words like this get thrown around in White House jargon and journalese so much that after a while it becomes necessary for some­one to step forward and ask just what the word means. 
Ken Kollman 
on politics 

The White House originally an­nounced that the policy of arms sales to Iran was for the purpose of helping the more "moderate" elements in Teh­ran. President Reagan himself said his policy was to "establish a relationship with moderates in Iran" and later, for the purpose of "establishing a more moderate government in Iran." Some of his critics have questioned who these people are. 
Then, there is talk of the "moderate" Administration officials. In Reagan'~ White House, these include those who are flexible and pragmatic. George Schultz and James Baker are moderate. Patrick Buchanan and Casper Weinberger are not. 
For a Presidential candidate, the label "moderate" means you support some conservative interests and some liberal interests at the same time. Or, it r.ould mean that you are a 
noonesbury 
"moderate" conservative, which says that you are conservative, but not fanatically so. Likewise with "moderate" liberals. Bob Dole is a moderate. Jesse Jackson is not. 
The Feb. 10 New York Times offered some reasonable definitions. Moderates in Iran, according to Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokes­man, are "people who would have some reason to be friendly to the United States." Suddenly Jesse Jackson be­comes a moderate, and so does nearly every other American. 
"It's all in the eye of the beholder," said a senior official, again in reference ot Iran. He was also shedding some light on the problem with the word. 
Regarding Iran, some have ques­tioned whether the people the United States dealt with are not extremists. Even those who might be called moderate, critics maintain, still have radical tendencies by Reagan's defini­tion. 
Semantic exercising is fine for writ­ers and crossword puzzlers. Yet inexact words can be troublesome when those in power label the same people differ­ently. 
Indeed, the New York Times quotes Amiram Nir, an Israeli official, saying, "we were dealing with the most radical elements in Iran." Then Vice President George Bush disclosed that the U.S. had delivered arms to "radical elements" in Iran. It is quite possible that these radicals are the same poeple first labeled as moderates. 
Fitzwater agrees that the term is misleading. He would prefer if Reagan used a "generic label" that did not make a distinciton between ideologies. 
In all areas of politics, the word "moderate," which should mean some­one who is ideologically indistinct, now means someone who is not harmful to my interests. Thus, it can mean being "friendly" to the U.S. 

As one of the many ambiguous, ill­defined words used by high officials ­like the word "neutralize" to mean "as­sassinate" in a CIA handbook -when under heat from suspicious critics, the word "moderate" as used in the recent Iran crisis has come to mean "we don't exactly know who these people are but we know they're not as bad as some others." 
Ken Kollman is a junior and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Quote of the day 
"We are now free from that inor­dinate fear of Communism which once led us to embrace any dic­tator who joined us in our fear." 
Jimmy Carter Address, May 23, 1977 


VieWP-Oint Friday, February 20, 1987-page u 
Conflicting attitudes weaken theological aim 
Twenty million dead. Twenty million dead since 1973. Twenty million babies killed through legalized abortion since ­1973. Some may consider these state­ments "unnuanced," but that there have been at least 20 million abortions in this country since 1973 is a fact. (There are an estimated 50 million abortions worldwide, each year.) The womb is one of the unsafest places to live in the U.S.: in 1984 there were about one and a half million babies aborted and just over three and a half mi":ion babies born alive, a ratio approac1 ing 1:2. 
Alfred Freddoso Janet Smith 
guest column 

Can there possibly have been good reasons for each and every one of these abortions? Would Daniel Maguire or some other Catholic theologian approv­ing of abortion on demand please give us a straight answer to this question? (Father Burtchaell tried to get one, but Professor Maguire, the sneaky devil, kept sidestepping the issue.) For what percentage of these abortions do they think the woman had no other choice but abortion? Let's be generous and say that 10% of abortion cases involve rape or incest or imminent and serious dan­ger to the health of the mother (the best estimates in fact put this figure at a fraction of 1%). Let's not ask whether any of these reasons is sufficient to jus­tify the taking of a human life; let's just say that since 1973 there have been 2,000,000 legal abortions that some Catholic theologians think could be jus­tified. 
But what about the remaining 18 mil­lion legal abortions? Have we heard any moral outrage expressed about them by Daniel Maguire or others who share his views? To the contrary, their silence is as shameful as it is scan­dalous. 
These abortions are not the result of necessity in even an extended sense. To be sure, there are very sad cases where women become pregnant nancy requires special treatment be­cause of the physical condition of the mother. But someday even theologians with "nuanced" views will have to ad­mit that the overwhelming majority of abortions are quite simply morally repugnant and utterly unjustifiable. 
Certainly, great effort should be made to provide compassionate care to women with problem pregnancies, to find every bit of help available to make it i'ossible for them to carry their bab es to term and to provide those be~ies with a decent upbringing.Wr 11 's more, since our society actively promotes promiscuous sex and abor­tion, we should not be quick to judge the moral character of those who do choose abortion. As Father Burtchaell pointed out, the women who have abor­tions are undeniably among the victims of abortion. 
Still, we must not be naive about why women get abortions. Millions of babies have been and will be aborted for reasons any theologian should have trouble justifying. To anyone who values innocent human life these num­bers are horrifying. We want to know why so many of the Cathloic theologians who are unwilling to con­demn all abortions refuse to speak out forcefully against these abortions. Why won't they use their great learning and their positions of power and influence to help save millions of lives rather than to justify the taking of life in "extraordinary circumstances"? 
So what do we have here at Notre Dame? A debate about abortion. That's fine with us. Truth is often well served by a debate, especially in the case of abortion. (It is our experience that an­tecedently undecided people rarely leave such debates convinced by the pro-abortion side, though we know many who have been sobered by pro­life arguments.) Indeed, much good was achieved by this debate: hundreds were able to listen to Father Burtchaell's eloquent speech connect­ing the Christian mandate to cherish the powerless with an unflinching op­position to abortion. But why Daniel 
through rape or incest or where a preg---~-~guire as the advocate of the 
abortion-on-demand position! ? Why an erstwhile Catholic priest closely allied with Catholics for free choice? Why a man known less for his serious or provocative arguments in favor of abortion on demand (Daniel Maguire is no Michael Tooley or Judith Thom­son) than for his sensational and headline-grabbing claim that the "pro­choice" position on abortion is authentically Catholic? 
Father Burtchaell made a rather re­vealing comparison. Notre Dame was one of the few universities to give George Wallace a hearing during the 1960's; Father Burtchaell understands this to be a testimony to Notre Dame's willingness to "hear opposing views from those who actually hold them." Now, we certainly agree that Daniel Maguire belongs in the company of George Wallace; both have rather nar­row views about which human beings should be treated with respect. But the analogy is imperfect, since George Wallace was not a Catholic represent­ing a group called "Catholics for a Free Choice on Racial Discrimination." Sup­pose he had been. Would Father McBrien have invited such a George Wallace to propound the "Catholic" argument for racism? Would the campus have welcomed this event, or even tolerated it? Would Washington Hall have been filled with dignitaries? 
Some have charged (or credited) Fa­ther McBrien with turning an osten­sibly serious debate on the morality of abortion into an occasion for legitimat­ing dissent on abortion within the Church. Could this possibly be true? One hopes not, for the university should surely not be exploited for political pur­poses; that smacks of manipulation and hardly contributes to a fair and even­handed search for truth. If we need to work out what sort of dissent on abor­tion is legitimate in the Church, let's have another debate, this time precisely on the topic of whether there are multiple Catholic views on abor­tion. And while we're at it, let's debate whether there are multiple Catholic views oil apartheid or on obliteration bombing of civilian targets in wartime. 

There are, after all, Catholics who deem these permissible. Why not invite them for a debate? Why not give them, too, the opportunity to claim that our invitation itself renders their position a respectable Catholic position? 
The two outside speakers Father McBrien has brought to campus to speak on abortion have been Mario Cuomo and Daniel Maguire. What kind of a message does this send to the campus and to the public? Have we heard enough on this campus from ar­ticulate and distinguished proponents of the pro-life position like James Burtchaell, John Noonan, Germain Grisez, and Stanely Hauerwas? 
Notre Dame is a fine institution, and it rightly takes pride in the strong moral witness it has given on other so­cial justice issues such as civil rights, political oppression, care for the poor and downtrodden. It hasn't worried about "imposing its Catholic view on others" in these matters. We have taken pride, as well, in the fact that Notre Dame represents a Church that bucks the consensus when the con­sensus is wrong. Yet even though there is a good deal of admirable pro-life ac­tivity on this campus, is there really enough for a school of this size and of this nature? Are our leaders, are our theologians doing their part to help us form the consensus which will lead to a restored protection for the lives of all human beings from conception to death? Many accuse Catholics of having failed to speak out forthrightly against slavery and Nazism. Let his­tory not wonder what a great Catholic university was doing at a time when millions of innocent human beings were being aborted. Let us all, faculty and administrators and stullcnts, take the lead in putting an end to this atrocitv in our midst. · 
Alfred J. Freddoso is on Associate Pro­fessor and Director ofGraduate Studies in the Philosophy Department. Janet 
E. Smith is an Assistant Professor in the Program of Liberal Studies and the Chairman of the Board of the Women's Care Center. 
P.O.BoxQ 
A voidance of issues a result of conditions 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to explain my gross con­duct at the Burtchaell-Maguire debate on abortion. Yes, I almost put a few nice professors into shock when I con­sistently did not clap for Maguire. This is not a result of "fanaticism" and only partially stems from the fact that Maguire is not a personal hero of mine. The root of the matter lies in Maguire's message. I was not impressed with its content, his tactics, and the academic "glee" which seemed to debase the seriousness of the issue. I congratulate the University, however, for opening old wounds. 
The real topic of debate should not have been "recent" events, but rather a recent "lack" of events have led Maguire to believe his stand is correct. Certainly, his tirade on Papal authority and historical sketch of "Catholic" in­humanity to man was nothing new. I believe Maguire probably took his ap­plause as massive approval of his view. 
I argue that this "lack of events" stems not from a universal sanction of the truth, but rather from conditioning imposed by the media of our times and shaped by the tactics of the few pro­choice fanatics. For starters, condition ing comes early for people like myseli who attended public schools. This issue was immediately tagged as taboo it be­came much more convenient to avoid than pursue it. My silence began with jibes about contraception before I knew or cared what the Catholic stand was. This topic was held above my head like a "sword of humor" when the topic of abortion was raised. Of course, I was never the one to bring the subject up in the first place, nor did I ever consider it relevant to the morality of the argue­ment. 
Maguire made use of the same tac­tics. He sought to divide and conquer by stating abortion is a relatively small evil compared to poverty, nuclear dis­armament and the present world con­dition. Brandishing the traditional con­traceptive sword of humor, he stated that our sperm will, thankfully, not rise from the dead. This is nothing new. I was not impressed. The real "silent scream" is the lack of voice and event put forth by the Catholic Community. 
Randy Gallagher Holy Cross Hall 
Pre· recorded lectures could replace theology 
Dear Editor: 
Three cheers for Charles Rice and 
his recent defenses of "truth in label­
ing" in Catholic theology. However, I 
do not think we should halt our ac­
colades here, short of recognizing the 
potential such doctrine has in other 
areas of the University; for example, 
spiralling costs in tuition. 
Why should the University waste thousands of dollars paying men and women, who have dedicated many years of thoughtful analysis of theologi­cal issues, to quibble over what Mr. Rice has recently informed us are un­ambiguiously clear matters of doctrine. 

As a matter of fact, why not abolish the department entirely and replace it with a 24 hour video rental outlet in the Lafortune Center. Theological videos, perhaps produced by the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, could be distributed to students directy. Per­haps a national Domer mail order dis­tribution network could be established. New techniques in direct computer­organic information links provide even more exciting possibilities for the fu­ture. 
Better yet, why limit such develop­ments to theology. By applying Mr. Rice's "truth in labeling" doctrines throughout the University, such benefits could be spread far beyond the narrow confines of the Department of Theology ... Oh brother! Or should we say Big Brother! 
Mike Keen Center for Social Concerns 
General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .......... _................... Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone 
_... 

as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle"is of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 
Friday, February 20, 1987-page 12
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Irish Fencing meet this weekend has been moved to Angela Athletic Facility because of Junior Par­ents Weekend. -The Observer 
All potential candidates for the 1987-88 cheerleading squad and Leprechaun must attend a man­datory organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium of the ACC. Requirements will be discussed and applications for tryout registration will be distributed. Also, mandatory clinics will be held the following Monday arid Thursday evenings. For more in­formation contact Tom Swaykus (3198) or the Athletic Office (239:6107). -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team dropped a 59-46 decision to Purdue-Calumet last night. Leann DeYoung poured in 38 points to lead Purdue-Calumet to the victory, while Jenny Hart scored 13 for the Belles, who are now 11-6. Saint Mary's continues it homestand next week when it hosts Kalamazoo Monday and Valparaiso Wednesday. The Belles also expect receive a bid to the NAIA district playoffs this weekend, which means they would also have to play Tuesday night. -The Observer 
Howard Hall took the men's Interhall track title for the last time Wednesday night. Holy Cross placed second and Stanford finished third. -The Observer 
NV A calendar 
Feb. 25 is the deadline for: 
Swimming Relays: Hall rep­resentation, team meet, men's and women's divisions. 
Water Volleyball: Open tournament, double-elimination. 
Lacrosse: Inter hall event, proof of insurance required, 15 to 25-man rosters. 
Students are also reminded of the Stretchercise program, which is already in progress on Tuesday and Thursday, begin­ning at 5:20p.m. 

The Obaenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. unti13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charve is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
BIG APPLE  SAB..SAB..SAB..SAB  Dear Laurie H., I think that you are very  ATIENTIONI ATIENTIONI  
NOTICES  WANTED  WHO LOVES N.Y.? I LOVE N.Y.  Applications for commissioners tended til Friday/  is  ex­ sweet and adorable and I want to go out with you very much. I'm too shy to say  Dear Seamon Eoman and Mad Dog, Welcome to the GAY community of  
DO YOU LOVE N.Y.?  GET INVOLVED/Ill  any of this and lately I've been frustrated  Notre Dame.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 PREGNANT? Happy. loving, financially secure couple eager to adopt infant. Con­fidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg collect 513-271-7526. Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406  OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. ALl fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free inlo.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 TYPISTS -$500 weekly at home/ Write: P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 2 need ride to Milwaukee lor NO­Marquette game call DAN £3691 NEED TO BUY MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 OR 239-4478.  BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE , 42ND ST BLOOMINGDALES! BIG APPLE BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y. BIG APPLE BIG APPLE SUITCASE PARTY  Pick up applications 2nd floor of Lafor­tune SAB..SAB..SAB..SAB WVFI T-SHIRT SALE NOTRE DAME'S PROGRESSIVE MUSIC STATION RETURNS TO THE AIRWAVES MARCH 1 SUPPORT THE "BIG TURN-ON" BY PURCHASING A COLORFUL TWO PRINT T-SHIRT FOR ONLY $6.001 BRIGHT SPRING COLORS WILL EN­HANCE YOUR BODY ON FLORIDA BEACHES, IN COLORADO SKI LODGES, ETC. SUPPLIES LIMITED... ND STUDENTS CALL PAT 277-3687, SMC STUDENTS CALL  by rejection but if you are interested please respond. See ya sweetie. Love. Bertha's surgeon and father --• HAPPY BIRTHDAY ..... MIA FAUST Happenin'?l Zero. No, incorrect. I think the number is 20. SHOTS, that Ia. Time to celebrate in style... No lines, no phones, no SBPDI Juat OED. Happy Birthday toPE's official Met and Giant's fan/ Love ya, Colleen & Nicole.  Love and sloppy wet kisses always, Migwell Hey RAX lover/ Yes, this is for you, not just you tool Thanks lor being such a great listener and friend. You set a good example. Well, that's all. Urn, how do you finish this?... endad? endmom? oh well. MMM is reformed/ She studies long. tedious hours, never goes to part ies anymore and is punctual for every class! Intellectually, she"s on fire. Role model? You betl ····YOU THERE! GIRL SEEKS FAVOR... •••• (limit 2/person) MMM's  
EXPERT  TYPING  SERVICE.  CALL  TODAY 4:30  MONIQUE 284-5173 FOR DELIVERYI!I  SAVEl SAVEl SAVE!  disclaimer...  None  above  is  true,  of  
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. PRO-TYPE Quality work, word proce..lng availability, reasonable $. 277·5833. Anyone interested in working on the Vrdolyak campaign lor mayor of Chicago can call John at 3558 or Kim at 4440 LOST/FOUND I  I need a ride to MILWAUKEE for the NOTRE DAME>MARQUETIE game/Ill Please help me and call Ann-Marie at 4015. FOR SALE AIRTIX CHICAGQ-SAN ANTONIO FOR SPRING BREAK; $125 ROUND TRIP CALL ANNIE 1704  HAGGAR PARLOR IF YOU LOVE S N.Y. To Anne Kelly, wishing a great girl a great 20th birthdayll What would SPRING BREAK be like without your RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you want them. You know you need them. WELL COME AND GET THEM/ CALL TIM AT 1801, AM. 324 DILLON/ "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN"  -Papa Smurfl Papa Smurfl Who was the smurfette in Tues" personals? -it's nar­rowed down to Blues, Pebbles, and plain oi'Smurfette, but I'm just not sure. Let me tell you about carrier pigeons ... -But Papa Smurf, I want to know about Smur­fette -So do I, my little Smurf, but smur­fever it is won't own up... I need ride to MILWAUKEE for NQMARQUETIE game. Call Ann 4015 E You're Incredible/ Happy 21 (shots) I'll be "In touch".  Need tranaportatlon? Low on money? Buy yourself a used YUGOI For further details call Bruce Guay at 3251 KIM WOODWARD-SORRY WE DID NOT GET YOUR B-DAY MESSAGE IN, BUT WE REALLY DID NOT FORGET. HOPE YOU HAD A GOOD ONE ANYWAY. LOVE YOUR 6-A SECTION Mia Faust-Please make a B-Day card for yourse" and sign it from the 6-A section. We love you and hope you have a hel­lacious 20th birthday/ FRIENDS OF LENIN SOCIETY  course. But help me impress my parents here lor JPW. PLEASE send TOP-HALF ONLY of this ad to 322 BP. Include a favorable note on my dryasdust, bookish behavior and I'll give you 1 dollar/ No kidding -Reply NOW and before Sunday. HEY EVERYBODY TODAY IS THE DAY BUBBLES TURNS 21111 LOOK OUT SENIOR BAR AND LINE UP THOSE SHOTS, TONIGHT SHE GOES FOR 21111 ALL YOU YOUNG ELIGIBLES COME AND HELP CELEBRATE, AND IF YOU CAN'T, CALL HER 284-4307, HEY BABE WE LOVE YOU AND ARE BEHIND YOU ALL THE WAYIIIGOOD LUCK, LOVE. BUNULAR. TOOTlE.  
WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN­TALLY TOOK MY BOOKS FROM  TICKETS  SOPHOMORES!  SOPHOMORES!  Ill  meets at 3AM Sunday mornings in the basement of the ROTC building  LINDER, LULU, AND NEENERIII  
SOUTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK PLEASE LEAVE AT LEAST MY NOTES AND MY ADDRESS BOOK SOME­WHERE SO I CAN GET THEM BACK II NO INQUIRIES WILL BE MADE. THANK YOU LOST at JR. Formal: Grey Kuppenheimer Tweed. It is my roommate"s and I want to live with him next year so I need it back. FOUND at JR. Formal: Grey Tweed. Call David at 1454 LOST: One blue ski jacket in the pool· room of LaFortun on 2113 if found, please call 2547 or return to 225 howard. There is a Va lentines card In the pocket with my name and address Lost: Monet pearl bracelet at Tri-MII Ball or between PE & South Dining Hall. High Sentimental value. II found please call x3884. LOST: Friday night 2113 at the ACC a set of keys. They are on an NO key chain and have a small penknife attached. Please call 1242 -they are very impor­tant. FOUND: Small pearl bracelet at THeo's friday. Call 3758 to Identify. LOST: A SMALL BLACK PURSE AT TRI MIL. NEED KEYS AND 1.0. PLEASE CALL MARIA AT 264-4277 IF FOUND. LOST: GUMBY KEY CHAIN WITH 5 KEYS -CALL 1670  NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. HELP/ ALUMNI WILLING TO KILL FOR 4 DEPAUL GA'S. SAVE A LIFE! CALL MARTY-1471 ................................................................ Need DePaul GA's CJ 1382 IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? with two (2) DePaul GAs? Will pay$ Bill x1460 I need a group ol2,3, or 4 DEPAUL GAs CALL 2073 HELP ME GET A FREE PLANE TICKET HOME. SELL ME 2 DE PAUL GAs OR 4 STU TIX. 284-4380 KATHY I NEED 4 DE PAUL GAs TAMMY 284­4057 NEED 1 DEPAUL STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET CALL MIKE 2180 Attention May Gradsll I am willing to ex­change hotel rooms for graduation tick­ets. Seats must be in the dome. Call Robert 1546 HI. I NEED 6-8 GA TIX FOR BROOKLYN B·BALL GAME. IF YOU HAVE ANY PLEASE CALL TIM:283-1710 FOR SALE BON JOY..L.. MARCH 4lR" UIC PAVILION, CHICAGO CALL DAWN 284-4171  SOPHOMORES/ Career Ia a MAJOR declalon. If you haven't decided on one and IHI un­prepared to deal with Fall Registration which begins April 23rd, conalder at­tending a career declalon-maklng workahop. Workahops will be held from February 23rd through March 5th. Call 23!1-7336 lor details. HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY CHRIS McCARTHY We Love Youtl NO Fans fn Toledo DRUIDS: Call40741or robe assignments and wor­ship times Stonehenge lives ... HEY SMOOTHIE, WE HOPE THE SKANK QUEEN OF YOUR DREAMS WILL BE YOURS ON YOUR BIRTHDAY I LOVE, CHRIS F. & HEE HAW 1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available lor all US al8tu. Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. Call Miriam at 283·2687. ii···;;;&;;;,;---w8icoma···i;;·--j;-.;;·,c;;·--p~;:;;;ii5  PAT BOONE ... Family man ... or Satan worshipper? You decide. IF THE BUCK STOPS HERE, THEN HE MUST BE BAREFOOT IN A BAR. COME DO THE "TOWN" AT ROOM 438 KEENAN AND WISH CHARLIE BUCK­LEY A HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY YEAH YEAH FUN FUN BRIAN HUGHES IS 21111 ................(............................................... Hi Papi,Mami,Ang,Tony and Nancy/ Are you cold yet? Just when I needed support the most; just when I needed a friend the most -she deserts me. I thought our friendship was deeper than that but since she never would open up to me -how was I to know? I'm really disappointed and frustrated because I really cared about her and I really wanted~ to work. II would have worked if she wanted it to. I thought she cared more. I was wrong. HELP/I Desperately need ride to Purdue this wknd(20·22) and next wknd(27-29). Will share expenses. Call Dan at 1462 JUNIOR OBSERVERITES SHOW YOUR PARENTS WHY YOU HAVE A GPA EQUAL TO A DOUGH­NUT. BRING THEM TO AN OBSERVER JPW RECEPTION AT THE OFFICE AT 1:30 SATURDAY AFTERNOON. REFRESHMENTS SERVED. SHOW YOUR PARENTS WHY YOU NEVER SLEEP.  Kerbert, Even though everyone abused me for being sentimental. I'm doing It again. I love you and adore you. There it is, plain and simple. Jamala •• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now & Ssve •• •• $90 RT Tix to Newark •• •• Leave 3112, Return 3>21 •• •• Call X3566 NOW •• Thank you St. Jude for your help­Thank you St. Jude lor your help­Thank you St. Jude for your help-SLAP:/ HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH ITI JUDY CHEAP AT AIRLINE TIX SB TO CHAR­LOTTE NCLYNCHBURG VA 3113-23 CALL 3194 MARY J., Here's you late Valentine. Sorry I Despite popular opinion and lor the record, I am not abrasive, vile, vulgar, rude or salacious. DC and I'm not a jerk, either. Dearest J.B., Did lever tell you how won· derful you are? You're wierd • but who LOVES YOU. anyway/ Meet me In the stairwell "cause I'll turn the tag with you anydayll  Dan & Dave-You'll find us up on the roof... -Tots,Bosch,&Crisp Neighborhood Study Help Program Applications for officer positions due this Sunday. February 22. Give to Tom in 1013 Grace. Fair Warning to Brutus Beefcake: Randy Savage is coming for... Elizabeth/ Happy B-day, Peeneyl One more year and you'll be able to drink legally/ Can"t wait Hll the 28th! Luv Ya, La alright, I got your letter seems kind of stupid to go on this way. you're the only one who honestly cared about me just because I am who I am thanks -jane e. To the 2 blonde guys in section 5.row 3,seats 9&1O(we think) in the ACC· You're looking pretty good. Love, the Bleacher Babas MME LUCY Bonj, cav, en fin, bonne anniver~ saire!! bonne anniversaire! ! bonne anniversaire! !  
LOST: FINANCE BOOK, HOPEFULLY ACCIDENTALLY TAKEN AFTER FINANCE TEST LAST THURSDAY IN PROF. CONWAY'S 1 :15 CLASS. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE CALL X1852, BILL.  EXTENDED PARIETALS AND REVOK­ING OF THE ALCOHOL POLICY/I Now that I have your attention, I will be forever indebted to anyone who can sell me GA's  Weekend to the lollowing parents: KOHS' LUXEM'S McGOWAN'S BRINKER'S TRIFONE'S  HELLO, K-TOWN: HI, STINKY! WELCOME DOMERLAND! HELLO, AMANDA!  TO  HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY SELOVER What do you do wijh a 5 loot 19 year old? Just don't consume too much beeah and butter cookies in Pensacola/ We didn't forget/ love CHRIS & STEPH  La vie est une rose. avec amour, Mile Karen, Elizabethwoman, McKayster (baby!), Joanna Oa bonne camarade de chambre), Carolyn et tous les autres  
Found: a winter jacket, on ACC court after N.Carolina game Call 3268 to identify and claim LOST: LADIES GOLD WATCH WITH CIRCULAR FACE. SOMEWHERE BE· TWEEN GALVIN AND WALSH AROUND LUNCHTIME TUES(17th). IT WAS A X-MAS GIFT IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 2646. MISSING; Were you at LNO last Friday, did you pick up a blue NO sweatshirt w11  lor any remaining home B-ball game. Dad's job( and hence my tuition payment) hangs in the balance. Please help mel Call Anne S. '3808 NEED 3 STUD-TICKETS FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 232-6917 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  THANK YOU ST. JUDE. John Crilly says hi to everybody and asks that people write to him, 6 Rodman Lane. Mountainside, NJ 07090 Camp Aiello is planned for March 5. Plan your lives accordingly. Our esteemed director Paul Aiello may make an appear­ance. Invitations in your mailbox soon. "Happy 21st Birthday Carol" See you on your big day. Feb 20th  ERNIE, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A GREAT !JROTHER. IT'S ABOUT TIME YOU HAVE A REAL 1.0. LOVE JUDE. P.S. PAY AL FOR THIS. M.F. Yep. K.F. Andy Braun: Ad tag. You're itl --LTD Hey Woody's team: LNO Broomball Champs '87--we had a blast/ Thanks for  Dear Anonymous, Knock next tlmel BLIND RIVER Uve at LEE'S RIBS Friday February 20 starting at 10:00 Featuring tunes by the Stones, Dead, Who, Beatles, CCR, Allman Bros. and many morel Check out N.D.'s hottest band. occ1 &3amc:we hate you. you ameli bad. go puke on-by yourMivea. occ1&4  INTERNATIONAL PRESS RELEASE TEAM AMERICA will team up with their moms and dads as they engege In friendly competition with other allied na­tions in the Junior Parents Weekend Garnes this Friday through Sunday. The contestants have trained lor over two and one-ha" years for the events. which will include social and fashion skills. Sleep competition has baen postponed until the following weekend. Spectators are en­couraged.  
soccer ball and a St. Zahm inscription on ~. if so call Mike at 4335 or return to 159  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Love, Mom & Dad  all the fun/ Let's do it again sometime! ··Teresa & laura  juat kidding.  MARDI GRAS BALL  
Zahm LOST: One room key to Alumni at Junior Formal. II found. please call Paul at 1209. Thanks.  Baautiful old costume jewelry, reason­ably priced. Middle row, first table at Thieves Market, 2309 E. Edison, SB, Sat. & Sun., 10-6. 10 per cent off with ND­SMC 10.  ................................................................ JOE & MARY ELLEN MORINtl I'm so glad you're here this weekend. Great place huh? lluv ya lots, Maria  Birthday Riddle: What 2 people were born 22 years ago on the 22nd day of the 2nd month 2 minutes apert? Answer: Madhu & Manju Malik. Happy Birthday to our favorite M&Msl Love Esther & Mary  ANTOSTAL ANTOSTAL ANTOSTAL AN TOSTAL  Friday, 27 FEB 1987 Theodore's -7:00 pm -2:00 am Featuring Johnny Knorr and his Or­chestra (a 13 piece swing band) until 10:00 pm Costume of Formal Attire Requested  
$3 Admission -includes mask  
....  FOR RENT FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FALL SEMESTER 6838869  THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453  MIKE WILKINS, There will be a "Miracle on Ice" thla wHkand In Indy. Thanks lor all you've done. You are the best. Love from a hockey mom  Computer geeks? Who? US? P.S. "The toastmasters meeting has been moved/" ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE ...ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE... ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE...ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE ...  There will be an An Tostal General Meeting lor all those interested in working on the stall this year. It will be held at 7:30 pm on Sunday night, Feb.22. in the library auditorium.  Sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapel Choir, Notre Dame Chorale, and S.A.B. FREE DANCING LESSONS in preparation for the Mardi Gras Ball  
ROOMMATE WANTED ASAP/  NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK?  WIN. A VCR IIIII Baa caller for the Wo­ K-Thank you very much. You know that  AN TOSTAL ANTOSTAL  4:00 pm -5:00 pm -­Theodore's Monday, 23 FEB thru Thursday, 26 FEB  
HICKORY VLG. $15Gtno.  Sell  your  textbooks  at  PANDORA'S  men"s Care Center Phone-a-Thon Come  I feel the same way, even after yesterday  AN TOSTAL  Sponsored  by  the  NOOMC  Ballroom  
CALL CLAIRE 272·5388  BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St.  to the Ad. Bldg/ Room212--Feb. 23-27,  (Feb. 18). Thanks lor being special. love  AN TOSTAL  Dance Club  
just off of N:D. Ave. ph. 233-2342  6-9:30  you, J  

Friday, February 20, 1987 -page 13
The Observer tice after noticing that his team 
was "flatter than a pancake." "I had a talk with them last 

Dlini A novice fan's guide to fencing
continuedfrom page 20 night, and I said, 'Listen, if you 
Irish provided the only blemish to an undefeated season on their way to an eventual na­tional championship. Return­ing from last season's Illini squad will be foilist Eric Schicker, who finished 18th at last year's NCAA Champion­ships. 
Where the Illini hope to beat the Irish is in the epee. Tim Hensley and Miles Phillips pro­vide DeCicco with the biggest worry, and is concerned that if 

Head Coach Mike DeCicco Looking for his 500th win 
these two win five or six bouts 
between them, Notre Dame's 
win streak could be in 
jeopardy. 
"It could go either way," he 
said. "If we beat Hensley and 
Phillips, then the tide will turn 
our way and it'll be another 
year before they have another 
shot at matching up with us." 
DeCicco talked to his team 
at the end of Wednesday's prac-
Forfeits 
continuedfrom page 20 
son on how much forfeits can hurt a team's chances in a dual meet Wednesday. Illinois State defeated the Irish, 24-17, as twelve of Illinois State's points came on two Notre Dame for­feits. 
want to win, your whole season is this weekend --the next four or five days. After Sunday, we have no more dual meets so to speak, justthe Great Lakes and the (Midwest) regionals. '" 
The most important goal for DeCicco right now is to finish the season undefeated, and to do that, he must guard against any possible emotional let­down. "There's no such thing as an emotional upset, he said. "I think if we had any kind of emotional letdown by any of our starters, we have the backup people who can do it. 
"There's no way we can lose to those first four or five teams we're fencing. But I can tell you one thing, I can think of half a dozen ways we can lose to Illi­nois if we're not fencing prop­erly and not fencing as well as we are able to." 
The fencing team enters the weekend with a higher winning percentage (.829) than last year's team (.821), and this weekend should only help that statistic. Individually, the Irish are led by the three-man foil team of Charles Higgs­Coulthard (26-2), Yehuda Kovacs (24-0), and Derek Holeman (24-2). 
Kevin Stoutermire leads the sabremen with a 31-2 record, followed by Tim Collins (27-6) and Geoff Rossi (22-6). The epee team is led by Todd Grif­fee, whose new style of fencing has resulted in a 26-2 record so far this season. 
On the threshold of his 500th win, DeCicco instead deflected the praise to his assistants, es­pecially women's coach Yves Auriol. 
The Irish actually won the 
dual meet on the mat, winning 
five of the eight matches that 
were carried out, but lost it on 
the scorecard. 
It was far from the first time 
forfeits have caused the Irish 
to lose a dual meet in their 1-10 
season. 
"I thought we wrestled pretty well. The guys tried hard to make up those twelve points, 

Each bout is scored to by touches or points. The first fencer to five points wins, or the fencer who leads at the end of five minutes is declared the winner. The team winner is decided by number of bout wins. Close meets are decided by cumulative bout points. 
Men: Three fencers compete In each of the three weapons--foil, sabre and epee. There are nine bouts In each weapon for a total of 27 bouts. 
Women: Four fencers compete in the foil only. There are four bouts for each totaling 16 bouts. 
The schedule of events for this weekend's fencing meet at the Angela Athletic Facility are as follows: 
Saturday: 

9:00 a.m. Case Western University 
10:30 a.m. Eastern Michigan 
12:00 p.m. Cleveland State 
1:30 p.m. Michigan State (men only) 
3:00 p.m. Illinois (men only) Sunday: 
2:00 p.m. Wayne State (men and women) 
Source: Notre Dame Sports lnformat1on The Epee: Scoring: on tip of blade only, also scored with electical equipment. Slmuna­neous points may be scored If touches occur within 1125 of a second. 
Target area: entire body, which is electroni­cally wired. 
The Foil: Scoring: Touches that count are on point (tip) of blade only. Electric equipment Is used to decide scoring. 
Target area: (area of body where touches are counted) trunk area, which is electroni­cally scored. 
Right of way: attacker has right of way. Defender must repel the attack before he can score. Director decides right of way, and describes action at every point. 
The Sabre: Scoring: on front of blade, tip and top W of back of blade. Points deter­mined by director and four side judges. No electrical equipment used. 
Target area: entire body above the waist. 
Right of way: same as foil. 

"Yves has got the women fencing like a Swiss watch," said DeCicco. "He's got our foil team doing the same thing he's got our epeeists going well, too. Just his having him in the gym, we pick up two or three bouts above our average. 
"He is able to get the best out of every one of our fencers Why have we had success with 
our foilists, why have we had success with our epeeists? It's 
and they were just thrown in a difficult situation," said McCann. "If we had the two guys who were hurt last week (Boyd and Andy Radenbaugh), it wouldn't have even been close." 
Notre Dame winners in­cluded 126-pound sophomore Dave Carlin, 134-pound sopho­more Jerry Durso, 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski, 167­
people like Yves and Rich Da­
ly. 
"He's doing now what I'd like 
to think I might have have done 
when I first came here. I just 
think that if he had 25 or 30 
years ahead of him, you don't 
know what kind of records 
there would be in fencing." 
Auriol has a particularly tough meet for his team on Sun­day, when the men and women take on arch-rival Wayne State 
pound sophomore Chris Geneser, and heavyweight freshman Mike Crounse. 
Sunday's meet with Indiana will be the team's last appear­ance of the season at the ACC Pit, and will mark the final home dual meet at Notre Dame for 118-pound senior Carl Hildinger and 177-pound senior Dave Helmer. 
"I look at those two guys as 


,~...,..,.._,..,_-..;.;.,...,;..,._.._,......_,~-.;,.-...-.:'0>-0;.~~~-~;;-~~-.;~..,._,,~~~~~,~~~~~5SS::SSS~~~~~J 
~  STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD  
~  University of Notre Dame presents SPR/NfJ BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE  
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL Ritht on the beach * Ritht in the middle oF the Sttip  

1st deposit Deadline: Feb 20! 
To Sign Up Call 239-7757 

Sign-ups 3pm-5pm Wed-Frl Basement of Lafortune Final deadline: Feb.27 
Driving Packape 

J. 189
Without TransportatiOn.. 'f Quad Occupancy .,. 
Full Packape 

J.219
With TransportatiOn.. 'f Quad Occupancy .,. 
March 13-22. 1987 
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the strip at 505 North Atlantic (A 1A) This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels in the middle of the strip. The Riviera has agreat cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a ni~ht­club. Available are hotel rooms for four people and su1tes that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have air condition­ing. color TV. and great new furnishings. 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use lo save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of you. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 

Observer Graphic I Pete Gagen 
on Sunday in Angela. 
Kristin Kralicek leads the team in wins coming into the weekend with a 33-6 record, fol­lowed by Janice Hynes (31-5), Anne Barreda (31-7), and Vit­toria Quaroni ( 27-4) . 
The women will face Case Western Reserve, Eastern Michigan, and Cleveland State on Saturday. Michigan State and Illinois are bringing their men's teams only. 
people with minimum talent but lots of desire. They had the best desire you ever want to see. They'll do anything you can ask of them, and their work ethic is great," said McCann. "I'll miss them because of their work ethic, and they'll both be extremely successful no mat­ter what they do because of their work habits." 
DePaul 
continuedfrom page 20 
Izard and has averaged 21.6 
points per contest. 
The Notre Dame-DePaul se­
ries is tied at five wins each. 
In their meeting earlier this 
season, the Irish closed the gap 
to 68-66 with only two minutes 
remaining before the Lady 
Blue Demons pulled out the win 
with clutch shooting from the 
foul line. 
Notre Dame hopes to reverse 
this result with a victory Sat­
urday afternoon in Chicago. 
The game is slated for a 3 p.m. 
(CST) tip-off at DePaul's 
Alumni Hall. 
TNncs toyou..• itwortcs... for 
AU. 
OFUS 

• 
• 
Unltadwau 


The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 14 
Face Lake Forest 

leers need momentum for playoffs ;,; 

a heartbreaking loss in Chapel 

Hill, N.C., and Notre Dame _______________ ______ ______
i~·.Q><.Q><Q>.Q>~;..~J...q,.q...q.~<Q><.Q>.q.<.Q>§ Ji;;;;;;;F riday's~F---e atu;;;;;;;;;;;;;r e:------r
romped to a 94-64 win. The Utes 


Utes 

rNDAVEAP~1 
continuedfrom page 20 

l Early Bird Special !
Also starting in the back­
court will be 6-5 junior Chris 

Fulton (4.3 points), a transfer Now renting for Fall 
from the University of 

Portland . 2 Bedrooms completely
Notre Dame has not lost to

l• ! furnished
Utah in any of the three previ­

ous meetings between the two § Sign up before break and 
schools. 

~ receive 'U 10% discount 
Last season, the Utes played 

§ Call 234-6647
the Irish just days after North 

Carolina handed Phelps' squad t Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
shot 32 percent in that game. 
"I know Utah did not play one 

WIN A VCR! 
of its better games in South Bend last year," Phelps said. "I'm sure their returning players will remember that. 

Be a callerfor the 
Springs and Smith and Gondrezick have been consis­

Women's Care Center
tent for them all year. 

Phone-a thon
"Playing on the road in front of a hostile crowd (the Special Events Center seats 15,000), playing in a place we've never played before and going up 

Come to the Ad. Bldg.--Rm 212
against a team that won 20 games and played in the NCAA tournament last year -all those things will make this a good 

Feb.23-27 6-9:30 
challenge for us." 
Smith has seen a few of his more prolific scorers this season nurse nagging injuries over the past month, and many of them will return for this se­ries. But the Irish will still be missing the services of sop­homores Brian Montgomery and Tom Smith and freshman Bruce Haikola. The Irish men­tor hopes an overall improve­ment will be seen in his team's play as a result of the increase in numbers. 
"Haikola is an example of what we've had to deal with this year," said Smith. "He's a good young player with great potential, but right away this season he breaks his wrist, he comes back, he breaks his ankle, he comes back, he comes down with bronchitis, he comes back, he gets his first goal of the season last weekend and now he's in the hospital with pneumonia. What are you going to do? 
"I'd really like to see us show some consistency this weekend. It seems every week we play inspired hockey one night and just fall apart the next. It's hard to figure out be­cause it's not just in one area that we let down, it's everywhere. If we're going to do anything at all come playoff time, we're going to have to be a little more consistent." 
The ACHA playoffs are two weeks away, and Smith realizes that his team's shoot­ing woes must improve within that time for the Irish to beef­fective. 
"Yeah, we're still having trouble putting the puck in the net," said Smith. "Sometimes we become a little too unselfish and give the puck away when we have open shots, but more often we've just been off the mark when we shoot. I'm scoring punch will come with experience. Maybe we'll be able to build our confidence with two good performances this weekend." 
~ 
§ § 
~ 
§ 

The Observer I Greg Kohs Irish center Heidi Bunek goes up for the block in a game earlier this season. Brian O'Gara details Notre Dame's weekend contest with DePaul beginning on page 20. 
3 Keenanites 
MEXICO Corona, Tequila Saturday: 
IRELAND 
Irish Harplager 
Whiskey Beer 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team completes its regular season conference schedule in Illinois this weekend, taking on Lake Forest Friday and Satur­day nights. 
The 7-15-2 Irish squad is looking to sweep a young but improving Lake Forest team. A sweep is exactly what the recently lackluster and often battered Irish need to pick up momentum heading into the American Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs in two weeks at Notre Dame, accor­ding to Irish head coach Lefty Smith. 

"We fared well against Lake Forest earlier in the season," said Smith, in his 19th year at the Irish helm. "But back then they were young and relatively inexperienced. They've really come together lately; their lines are beginning to gel and they have good team speed. I'm expecting two games that will go right to the wire. They match up evenly with us." 

The Observer I Greg Kohs 
Assistant captain Tom Mooney defends against the point in a shorthanded situation. The Irish hope to get back on the winning track when they visit Lake Forest this weekend. 

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 15 
Outside income of coaches not the business of presidents 
What's really sticking in my craw right now is something that's officially called Proposal No. 50, au arr endment that was passed at the last NCAA conv'-n•. ion back in January, and which has since c.ume tv be known as the Jim Valvano Rule today. 
What it says, and I quote, is that "coaches an­nually shall report all athletic-related income from sources outside the institution (including, but not limited to, income from annuities, sports camps, housing benefits, complementary ticket sales, TV and radio programs, and endorsement or consulta­tion contracts with athletic shoe, apparel or equip­ment manufacturers) through the director of ath­letics to the institution's chief executive." 
To that, I say: What the hell is going on here? Why do these presidents of the universities have such a fear of a coach trying to better himself? And why should they be able to become an extension of the IRS? 
Instead, why don't they ask a faculty member what he is doing during his 12-week vacation during the summer, or his extended Thanksgiving weekend, and Christmas vacation, spring break and every other holiday known to the free world? 
Let's stop all the foolishness and get down to brass tacks. This country was made on opportunity, and if a coach has the ingenuity to create a private empire, what difference does it make--as long as he and his teams live by the rules of the particular university? That's the way it works for the rest of the campus citizenry--the students, the faculty and anybody else who works in administration, right down to the dishwasher in the cafeteria, or the guys who deliver the cadavers to the medical school, now that frogs have become passe. 
The point I'm trying to make is this: As long as a coach lives within the image the school wished to project, then what he does in his own time is nobody's business. 
AI McGuire 
Hoopla 


So let's stop it right now. Let's not take this outside income thing a step further. A person's income is like his home, his castle. It's private, it's personal, and for some university president to receive that information through normal channels of secretaries and administrators--which is usually 18 levels minimum--is outrageous. 
I say, Mr. President, until you can explain to a coach just what is a representative season (we know you want one, but what is one?), until you can say to a coach, 'You've got tenure,' until you do what the president of Wake Forest did, where they were in the basement for two years and he still extended the coach's contract, until you can show this kind of compassion, then stop trying to be a priest in a confessional box, living in a world of whispers, be­cause it's nobody's business what a coach makes. 
Think about it. That's why you and the school are paying the guy in the first place. Because he's giving you a "representative" season, which accor­ding to the guys in the Ivory Towers --even though they won't say it--seems to mean 20 victories, an NCAA bid, and the program in the black. 
To my mind, what "representative" should really be is: How did you handle these young men? Has the alumni enjoyed the standard of giving that a Rose Bowl or NCAA Final Four team generates? And has the entire family of the university enjoyed the benefits as well? Have all the supplemental activities that surround that sport--from pom-pom girls to the school newspaper, the pep band, march­ing band, program sellers, vendors, even the kids who help park cars on the big weekends--is all this successful? Whether you know it or not, Mr. Pres­ident, the sport brings more to the university than the game and the three hours surrounding the game. It's an integral part of education. 
To sum up, I think what we've got here is possibly another big crack in the coaching profession. Un­fortunately, it seems that the only thing everybody agrees on in the world of college sports today in that coaches should be kept in their places--that they should live in a six-story, walk-up high rise in the Bronx of East St.· Louis, or maybe a Mother Cabrina develpment in Chicago someplace. 
And why is it that coaches are only invited out on Friday nights, when they serve pizza and beer? Very rarely do they get invited to a Saturday night academic function, the kind that are more black tie and Blue Blood. It's like with the country clubs: The best one is always the one the president belongs to, and then there's another club a step or two down for the coach. What most university presidents would prefer is that a coach belong to the YMCA; that he's an outstanding citizen, and that he knows his place. And that his place is not to make money and drive a car better than the one the president drives, because it might just break the rhythm. 

Cl Anheuser-Busch. Inc .. St. Loui$. Missouri 

Vida Blue snubs A's, retires 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif.-Vida Blue announced his retirement from baseball Thursday, less than a month after signing as a free agent with the Oakland A's and one day before A's pitchers were due to report for spring training. 
The 37-year-old left-bander, who had been penciled into the starting rotation by A's Manager Tony La Russa, gave little indication why he is retir­ing in a statement released through the A's. He said he remains in good physical con­dition and decided to quit while he remains healthy. 
Team spokesman Jay Alves said the announcement came as a surprise, and the A's did not know anything beyond Blue's formal comments. 
Blue, a resident of Oakland, helped the A's to world cham­pionships in 1972, 1973 and 1974, recording three 20-victory seasons in seven full years with the team. 
He pitched for the San Fran­cisco Giants the past two seasons, going 10-10 with a 3.27 earned-run average in 1986 and running his career record to 209-161 with 2,175 strikeouts. 
"I am going to miss my fans, the players, and all the people associated with baseball," Blue said in his statement. 
Sandy Alderson, Oakland's vice president of baseball operations, expressed regret at Blue's announcement but said the A's "respect his decision and wish him well." 
After leaving Oakland fol­lowing the 1977 season, Blue spent four years with the Giants and two with the Kansas City Royals. He was suspended from baseball for the 1984 season after being convicted for cocaine possession, then rebounded with a pair of too-strikeout seasons for the Giants. 
...------~--------~­
The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 16 

SMU proposes sanctions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Penalties pro­posed against Southern Meth­odist University's football pro­gram by the NCAA enforcement staff stop short of the first use of the maximum, two-year "death penalty" shut­down, the school's faculty rep­resentative said Thursday. 
While the NCAA's infractions committee is not bound by the recommendation and still could impose the maximum penalty on its own, SMU pro­fessor Lonnie Kliever said the staff's proposal at a hearing last weekend was the same as the school's. 
"We cooperated and were not adversarial," Kliever said. "We discussed and disclosed the infractions that put us at risk with the enforcement people. And we went into the hearing with the staff and the institution agreeing on viola­tions and proposed penalties. Neither the institution nor the enforcement staff went in as­king for the death penalty." 
Under legislation adopted in June 1985, the NCAA may suspend repeat offenders for up to two years, prohibiting com­petition, recruiting, coaching or scholarships during that per­iod. 


Joey Meyer topsAP nominations 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -DePaul coach Joey Meyer laughed at the news that he led nominations an­nounced Wednesday for The Associated Press Coach of the Year in college basketball. 
"I'm flattered, " he said. "I never really thought about it. This is just my third year. I'm so used to the shadows, it 

doesn't  jibe  with  my  men­ 
tality.''  
Meyer  received  316 points  

and 12 first place ballots to 308 for Iowa's Tom Davis, who also had 12 first place votes. John Chaney of Temple was third with 11 firsts and 296 points fol­lowed by Jerry Tarkanian of Nevada-Las Vegas, who had 16 first place votes and 268 points. Paul Evans of Pitt was fifth with 167 points and three first place votes. 
Balloting was conducted among the college basketball poll writers and broadcasters who participate in the weekly AP poll. 

Caray recovers from mild stroke 
Associated Press TV. Caray announces for the Cubs on both WGN and WGN­TV.
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. -Caray, 67, never lost con­Sportscaster Harry Caray, the sciousness according to Willsvoice of the Chicago Cubs, was and the attending physician,resting comfortably Thursday Dr. Burton Winston.
at Desert Hospital after suffer­''There is no paralysis and alling a mild stroke. 
signs are good," Wills said. "It won't be long before he's back calling the games." 
Caray, who maintains a win­ter home near Palm Springs, suffered the stroke Tuesday while playing cards at his country club. 


"He looks good, he is in fair •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
condition and the prognosis is JPW TABLE RESERVATIONS • good,'' said Bill Wills, a spokes­man for Tribune Co., which owns the Cubs, The Chicago 
.•
~ 
Tribune, WGN radio and WGN­

WILL BE FINALIZED FRIDAY t 
CORAL NISSAN, INC. 
51176 U.S. 33 North 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 277-5800 

NOTRE DAM&ST. MARY'S STUDENT VIP DISCOUNT CARD entitles student to a 15o/o discount on PARTS•SERVICE•RENTAL CAR 
Rental car discount applies only while your car is in our shop for service work we service all makes and models 
lplease brin9 coupon) 

~.  AND POSTED AT THE  ~  
f  JPW  OFFICE  ,  
!;•.•  AND AT THE ACC. PLEASE CHECK POSTINGS  :. •:i 

i....~~~.:~::.:~.~~~~~....: 


Tho Golden Child (R) Dolby 1:30, 3:30, 5:36. 7:35 9:30 
""Tho Mlooion (PG) 
1:45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:30 
Pla1oon (R) Dolby 
1:00, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00 (Nomrtlated for etght Oscars) 

SCOTTSDALE 
1153 Scottsdale Mall 219 291-4583 Slack Widow (R) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Over !he Top-Slallion (PG) Dolby 
I , , 7:30, 9:45 


• 

a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over30 years. 

~~s" 
~ol'lf-' 

The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 17 
Gelfman juggles doubles pairings, takes squad to Wis. without Dasso 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team opens its 1987 spring season by traveling to 
Madison,  Wisconsin  to  face  
Wisconsin  and  Western  Mic­ 
higan this weekend.  

But Head Coach Michele Gelfman will be without the services of number-one singles player Michelle Dasso, who will not make the trip because of a personal conflict in her schedule. 
In her place freshman Step­hanie Tolstedt will move up to play in the number-one spot, followed by freshman Alice Lohrer, senior co-captain Tammy Schmidt, sophomore Natalie Illig, freshman Resa Kelly and sophomore Julie Sul­livan. 
The team has spent the last several weeks preparing for a season which Gelfman terms as the toughest the Irish have ever faced. 
The task that lies ahead will not be easy, and no one recog­nizes that more than co-captain Tammy Schmidt, whose col­legiate career is coming to a close. A leader by example, Schmidt plans to make the most of her last tennis season. 
"Just because I only have a semester left doesn't mean I can't continue to improve as a tennis player," said Schmidt. "As far as team goals, we al­ways want to strive for a win­ning record. We've got to get it into our heads that we can beat some of these teams even though they might be ranked a little higher than us." 
Wisconsin and Western Mic­higan will provide some indica­tion of what this year's team is made of. 
"Wisconsin has a very strong team," said Gelfman. "Play­ing them will be a valuable learning experience for us and as for Western Michigan. We've got as much of a chance to beat them as they do of beating us." 

The Irish will also be playing this weekend with new doubles teams. The freshmen tandum of Tolstedt and Lohrer will lead off in the number-one doubles spot. Schmidt and Kelly, who posted the best fall doubles record, will take the number­two position, and Illig will be paired with Jackie Uhll for the third team. 
To Gelfman, coaching a young team has its advantages. The focus is towards the future, but the present day goals must be realistic. 
"If we go into the season with an open mind, things will come toghther," said Gelfman. "The team has worked extremely hard, and it's going to pay off." 
Fallon set for 500th career victory 

By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
The costumes have been made, the lines rehearsed, the players prepared and the stage set for Head Coach Tom Fal­lon's 500th win. 
Today the Notre Dame men's tennis team will play host to Northern Illinois in an attempt to continue its three-game win­ning streak. The action will be followed tomorrow by a quandrangular meet in Elkhart against Iowa, Toledo and Southern Illinois. 
Northern Illinois could prove to be a good match for the Irish. 
While the Notre Dame defeated the Huskies last year, 7-2, both teams were defeated by Northwestern by equal mar­gins this year. 
"We're looking for a good match this Friday," said Fal­lon. "Northern Illinois is a good team. We'll have to be ready to fight them." 
Behind hard-firing southpaw Tim Carr, the men have a good chance of extending their streak and pushing Fallon over the 500 mark. 
If the play happens to falter Friday, the Irish have a chance to re-open the show in a two-day appearance in the Notre Dame Quadrangular Meet. The opening act will be against Toledo, a regular the Notre Dame schedule. The second act pits the men against Southern Illinois, an on-again, off-again opponent. The Irish will close the drama with a Sunday scene against the Hawkeyes of Iowa. 

"Toledo is a familiar op­ponent," said Fallon. "Last year we solidly beat them. Southern Illinois will present a few surprises with new names on their roster. The Iowa meet could go either way." 
Despite injuries to starters Paul Daggs and Tony Cahill, Dan Walsh and Mike Wallace have taken over their roles in grand style. Their strength and determination are a fine exam­ple that, "the show must go on." 
>rz  ....  
The Observe r I Robert Jones  
The Irish women's tennis team  opens  its  spring  season  this  

weekend when it travels to Madison, Wis. to face Wisconsin and Western Michigan. 
Parrish, Phillies at standstill 

Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla.-The Philadelphia Phillies broke off negotiations with Lance Par­rish over the possibility of a law suit by the free-agent catcher against the Phillies and major league baseball, Phillies spokesman Larry Shenk said Thursday night. 
Shenk said the Phillies and 



"mowe~ 1/Jil aQQ occogiong.'· 
Comein and Browse 
~17 Lincolnway 231-3354 


Parrish agreed Wednesday to financial terms of the $1 million contract for one year, but the two sides could not agree on a clause protecting the Phillies and major league baseball from legal action. 
In a brief statement read by Shenk, Phillies President Bill Giles said: "our lawyers and Parrish's lawyers were unable to agree on satisfactory con­tract language that would release the Phillies and the rest of major-league baseball from recent threats of legal action relating to negotiations with free agents such as Lance Par­rish. 
"I'm very dissappointed we couldn't work it out." 
Shenk said he would have no further comment except that John Russell would be the Phillies' catcher in the coming season. 
Chris Wheeler, a Phillies spokesman, said he knew noth­
ing of earlier reports that Par­rish's negotiators were willing 
threat of a suit. 

Sprlng Break 
FLORIDA 
Studios, I bdr. & 2 bdr. opts. Close to beech In Detrey Beech,FlA BoW Ft i...Duderdele & W. Palm Beech c.u todlly. ~26~1~ •40 oft wtth this Ml 
Telemarketing Earn and have tun. Hours are Monday and Tuesday. Spm to 10pm. Sunday. 11 am to 7 pm. Good pay, short to Indefinite posit1ons Immediate open1ngs 
MANPOWER 
Temporary staff specialists 320 w. LaSalle 234-0157 



The Observer Friday, February 20, 1987-page 18 
College basketball roundup 
No.2 Indiana escapes Minnesota 

$22.95 cloth $12.95 paper Just Arrived 


Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-No.2 
Indiana again flirted with an 
embarrassing defeat against 
the lower echelon of the Big 
Ten Conference Thursday 
night. 
But a big defensive play by 
Steve Eyl and the clutch free 
throw shooting of Dean Garrett 
gave the Hoosiers a 72-70 vic­
tory over Minnesota. 
It was Indiana's third con­secutive Big Ten basketball cliff-hanger against the bottom three teams in the conference. All three were decided by two points or less, 
Eyl, a 6-foot-6 junior for­ward, didn't score a point. But he made a key block of a shot by Minnesota's Kim Zurcher in the waning seconds. Then Gar­rett came through with the game-winning free throws as Indiana posted its eighth straight victory and dealt the Gophers their nth loss in a row. 
Garrett, who hit the game­winning basket in Monday night's triple-overtime victory over Wisconsin, hit seven straight free throws in the final four minutes, including the winning pair with three seconds to go. 
Minnesota had one last chance after Garrett's go­ahead free throws, but Ray Gaffney was called for travel­ing. 
Indiana Coach Bob Knight said Eyl "hadn't made many plays (up to that block). That's very uncharacteristic of Eyl's play." 
Daryl Thomas, who led In­diana with 24 points, said, "It's good to have games like this, but not against teams like this. If we play the way we played tonight against Iowa on Satur­day, we're going to get beat by 20 points." 
Minnesota Coach Clem Has­kins said, "Mter you work hard like that and lose, it's always tough. We just got beat by a better team." 
Indiana, 22-2 overall, stayed in first place in the conference with a 13-1 record. But guard Steve Alford's shooting slump continued and it took the inside play of the 6-10 Garrett to save the Hoosiers. 
Alford, Indiana's scoring leader with a 22.8 average, hit only seven of 20 shots from the field, including three of nine 3­point attempts. Over the past three games, he has made only 15 of 52 shots and scored 45 points. 
Tulsa 73, Indiana St. 54 
TULSA, Okla. -Forward David Moss scored 30 points to lead Tulsa to a 73-54 thrashing of Indiana State in Missouri Valley Conference basketball Thursday night. 
Tulsa jumped to a 13-3 lead on the scoring of Moss and for­ward Brian Rahilly. 
But Indiana State, led by guard Ron Cheatham and for­ward Benji Frazier, chipped Tulsa's lead to one, 19-18, at the 
8:30 mark. 
Tulsa regained its momen­tum and held a 34·28lead at the half. 
Indiana State was able to stay close to Tulsa during the second half, despite poor shoot-rebounding advantage to offset their 10 first-half errors and stayed close to the Hoosiers the rest of the game. 
Alford hit only one other bas­ket before halftime. 
A three-point play by Coffey brought Minnesota within two points eight minutes into the game. Another basket by Cof­fey tied the game at 20-20, and the Gophers managed five more ties and several leads of one and two points before Rick Calloway and Todd Meier scored to put the Hoosiers ahead 36-34 at the intermission. 
There were 11 more ties in the second half before Garrett, who led both teams with eight rebounds, got the winning free throws. 
UNL V 86, Lg. Beach 66 
LONG BEACH, Calif. -Armon Gilliam scored 15 of his 19 points in the first half as No. 1-ranked Nevada-Las Vegas opened a big early lead Thursday night en route to an 86-66 Pacific Coast Athletic As­sociation basketball victory over Long Beach State. 
Freddie Banks scored 20 points for the Rebels, who ran their overall record to 27-1 and their conference mark to 15-0. 
The Rebels' only loss of the season was an 89-88 defeat by Oklahoma on Jan. 17. 
Long Beach State, which had suffered a 104-74 humbling by the Rebels last month at Las Vegas, dropped to 12-15 overall and 7-8 in the PCAA. 
Syracuse 90, 
Providence 81 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. Sophomore Sherman Douglas scored eight of Syracuse's final 10 points and finished with 26 as the ninth-ranked Oran­gemen held off No. 19 Provi­dence for a 90-81 Big East Con­ference basketball victory Thursday night. 
The Friars, who held the lead throughout the first half, moved to within 84-81 with 1:51 to play on a jumper by Delray Brooks. But Douglas scored on two fast-break layups and Rony Seikaly and Howard Triche each added a free throw to give Syracuse its final points and its biggest lead of the game. 
Syracuse is 22-4 overall and, at 10-3, tied for the Big East lead with Pittsburgh. 
The Friars fell to 18-6 in all games and 8-5 in the Big East. 
Temple 77,
St. Bonaventure 56 
PHILADELPHIA -Howard Evans scored 20 points as fifth­ranked Temple defeated St. Bonaventure, 77-56, Thursday night to clinch the Atlantic H Conference regular-season basketball title. 
Temple extended its winning streak to 14 games, the longest current victory streak in the country. 
Temple, 27-2 and 16-0 in the conference, played without starting center Ramon Rivas, who sat out the game with an infected heel. Starting guard Mike Vreeswyk, nursing an ankle sprain, did not appear in the game until the second half and scored six points. 
Rob Lanier led the Bonnies, now 5-20 overall and 3-13 in the conference, with 15 points. 


Xavier 69, Butler 67 
CINCINNATI -Sophomore 

guard Stan Kimbrough scored 
20 points Thursday night, in­
cluding a layup and a free 
throw in the last 30 seconds to 
give Xavier University a 69-67 
Midwestern Collegiate Confer­
ence victory over Butler. 
Kimbrough's layup put 

Xavier ahead 68-65 with 30 
seconds to play. 
Butler, 12-14 overall and 5-6 
in the conference, had a chance 
to go ahead after sophomore 
guard Darren Fowlkes cut the 
score to 68-67 on a layup with 
17 seconds left. Xavier turned 
the ball over with 11 seconds to 
play, but senior center Mike 
Harper missed a jump shot 
with three seconds remaining 
and the ball bounced over the 
backboard. 
Kimbrough was fouled and made one of two free throws with two seconds left to lift Xavier to 14-12 overall and 6-5 in the conference. Kimbrough had a game-high nine assists in addition to leading four Xavier scorers in double-figures. 
Senior guard Darrin Fitzgerald led Butler with 20 points, but was only 4-of-12 on 3-point attempts. 
Welcome JPW Parents! NO Press Proudly Presents 
NOTRE DAME 
~~=====PAST==========================~~ 

EDWARD FISCHER 

NOTRE DAME AND 
PRESENT======Di
REMEMBERED 
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY 
Available at 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
A 

CONTEMPORARY 
PORTRAIT 
ROBERT P SCHMUHL 
$16.95 cloth 
the Hammes Bookstore 2nd floor 

' T 0 day____________________________
F.ri·d-ay_._F.eb_r_u.ar_y_2_0._1_98_7_·_p_ag.e-19 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Bus Trip to 100 Centerll Sign-ups in SAB office 2nd floor LaFortune TODAY 



r-·_) 
oefore b pn· 

LaFortune.
* $1.50 Movies Star Trek IV, CrocodUe Dundee 
11 am-3 pm
* fondue Parlor (use the coupon in today's paper) _.. 
Lawmaincircle 7:1S,I:30 pm R«um to ND IOpmAmiclniahl 
* Hacienda (low-price Mexican) 
TODAY!!
• Ice House (nicer dining) • FREE BUSII 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
llt.W CAN Jt¥1 
EVEN 9166EST 1/Af?R/~ lllJ THAT! AT 8tS{ !'W ~M 11£? 
/.111/UI ONE'? JOfll OR I'Wi!E? 
IT's 111/fcliAll ! 5/tiO 6·'I, 
. l.'IO, 1./.1! ~\ 4./ !f'! 
\ 
. I 

Campus 
FRIDAY 
10 
. 6 p.m.: Snite Museum, special museum hours 

11 
. 3 p.m.: Caricatures, in the first floor lobby of LaFortune, sponsored by SAB of Winter Carnival 3 p.m.: Tennis, ND vs. Northern Illinois, ACC 4:30p.m.: Department Of English Ward­Phillips 1987 Lecture, Lecture VI:"Otherwise then Language," by Prof. Gerald Bruns, Room 222, Hayes-Healy 


4:30-5:30 p.m.: Big Apple Send Off Party, Haggar College Center, SMC . until 5 p.m.: Sign-ups for Bus Tnp to 100 Center SAB Offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Series "My Beautiful Laundrette," 1986, Annen­berg Auditorium 
SATURDAY 8 a.m.-3 p.m.: Law School Admission Tests, Engineering Auditorium 9 a.m. & 2 p.m.: Tennis, ND Quadran­gular .Iowall'oledoSouthern IllinoiS! Notre Dame. Also Sunday at 10 a.m. 10 a.m.-6 p.m.: Special Museum Hours, Snite Museum 12 p.m.· 4 p.m.: Air Force ROTC Recep­tion for Junior Parents, Air Force ROTC Building . 1:30p.m.: Movie, "SoundOfMusic,"Car­roll Auditorium, SMC 
1:30 p.m.: ND Jazz Band Concert, Annen­berg Auditorium 2 -4 p.m.: Army ROTC Junior Parents Reception, Army Lounge, ROTC Building 2:30p.m.: Museum Tours, Snite Museum 3 p.m.: Free-For-All Winter Sports, Win­ter Carnival, SMC Library Green 3 p.m.: Snowball Fight and Hot Cocoa and Cookies, Winter Carnival, SMC Clubhouse 7,9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie,"About Last Night," Engineering Auditorium 
SUNDAY 2 p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Indiana, ACC 2 p.m.-4 p.m.: Art Exhibition Opening, Todd Webb-Photographs of New York and Paris, 1945-1960, O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 4 p.m.: Dept. Of Music Concert, Rev. Patrick Maloney, Faculty Voice Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 8 p.m.: Dept. Of Music Concert, Goshen College Chamber Choir, Sacred Heart Church 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Beef Consomme Breaded Pork Chop Baked Cod Rolled Spanish Omelet Sloppy Joes 
Saint Mary's 

Batter Fried Fish Tacos Cheese & Mushroom Omelet Deli Bar 

l/11..•. 

-· 
80TH. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Secure Slndlan VIP 
10 Masticate 14 Col. aubj. 15 Make joyous 16 Mata­17 Prepare for 
battle 20 Keats product 21 No part 22 Ship deck 23 Framework 25 Caliber 27 Alpine abode 29 Abased 33 One marked 
by failure 34-Mason 35 Silkworm 36 Sights along 
the Thames 37 Appellation 38 Fed 39 Helm letters 40 Pith helmet 41 Deer 

42 Kitchen gadget "'1987 Tribune Madia Services, Inc. 2/20/87All Rights Reserved 
44 Urban areas 45 Max or Buddy 46 Persian 9"For-a 
prophet jolly good ... " 47 Take an oath 10 Nervous 50 Tennille of disorder 
song 11 Call out 51 Newt 12 Rublk of 54 Battle· cube fame 
chimeras 13 Strand 58 Wight or Man 18 Below 59 Essential 19 Truck In 60 Olive genua Tewkeabury 61 Peruse 24 Pub drinks 62 Battery 25 Uncle Mlltle 
terminal 26 Golllwogg 
63 With little 27 School group margin of 28 Lift safety 29 Inhibit 
30 Young woman 

DOWN 31 Clear a tape 
2/28/17 1-llly 32 Eats well 43 Moderated 50 Yugoslav 2 Amlno-34 The one to pay ·44 Taper leader 3 Weather man 37 Normal tissue 46 Simple 52 Kind of circus 4 Pan catcher firmness organism 53 Autocrat 5 Rumor 38 Carry 47 Cooking 55 Govt agcy. 6 Isolated 40 Headdress direction 56 Triumph 7 A Fonda 41 Something 48 Astute 57 Electrtfled 8 Eroded Insignificant 49 Fitzgerald particle 


Friday, February 20, 1987-page 20
S~orts 

Slow-down offenses to rule as Runnin' Utes host Irish 
By MARTY STRASEN by the utes, it's no wonder the Irish see Assistant Sports Editor tomorrow night's game (10 EST) as an important one. 
SALT LAKE CITY -What might give Notre Dame has slowed down the the Notre Dame basketball team more pace of games against running teams trouble than anything else Saturday like North Carolina and Duke on its way night is the fact that the University of to some upset victories, a three-game utah's team does not live up to its winning streak and a 16-7 record. But name. milking the shot clock in Salt Lake City 
The utes certainly live up to their might be playing right into Utah's billing as defending champions of the hands. Western Athletic Conference, having The utes are led by 6-8 sophomore dumped cross-state rival Brigham Mitch Smith at the center position,
·-· Young last weekend and sporting a 15-9 averaging 16.7 points and 9.0 rebounds record going into a contest at Air Force per game. last night. Also, Utah made the NCAA Another 6-8 sophomore, Jimmy tournament last season and finished Madison (8.3 points, 5.0 rebounds), will with a solid 20-10 record. take up some space in the paint at for­
But this year, the Runnin' utes don't ward, along with 6-5 senior Albert run, and that could give Irish head Springs (14.0 points, 6.4 rebounds). coach Digger Phelps some trouble. Senior guard Gale Gondrezick prob­
"This is the road game that we, as ably has been the most pleasant coaches, felt would be key when we surprise for utah coach Lynn Archibald looked at the schedule before the season this season. The 6-4 guard filled' one of began," said Phelps. "They're coming two vacant back court slots and is shoot­off a big win on the road against BYU ing his way to an average of 15.4 points and I'll guarantee that this game will a contest. be a war." 
With the style of basketball played see UTES, page 14 
DiStanislao looks for 200th as Irish face Blue Demons 
By BRIAN O'GARA Mary DiStanislao has been the emer­gence of freshman Annie Schwartz as
Sports Writer 
Color provided by Anheuser-Busch

a top scorer and rebounder. CHICAGO -Mter recording a 90-53 Schwartz scored 17 points and pulled Irish forward Donald Royal goes for night. Notre Dame faces Utah tomor­
the rebound as center Gary Voce clears row in a 10 p.m. contest.
drubbing of Illinois-Chicago on Wednes­down 10 rebounds in Wednesday night's day night at the ACC, the Notre Dame victory over the Flames, and has the way for him againt Wagner Monday 
women's basketball team heads to averaged 18.5 points in the last four Chicago this weekend in a North Star games. For her efforts the 6-3 native of Conference matchup with DePaul. Ann Arbor, Mich., was named North 
Wrestlers face forfeits, IU 
A victory Saturday would give Notre Star Conference player of the week for Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao her the period ending Feb. 16. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE and Tom Ryan that will be Notre 200th career victory. Her record over 
DePaul will be led by sophomore for­Sports Writer Dame's biggest obstacle. 
12 years of coaching is 199-109, includ­ward Diana Vines and senior point "It will be a good meet," said Irisi1 ing a 110-79 record in her seven years After two forfeits due to mJunes
guard Sally Anderson. The Lady Blue head coach Fran McCann. "But in our 
at Notre Dame. resulted in an Irish loss to Illinois State condition, it will be difficult to win. Pat
Demons' dynamic duo combined for 50
The Irish will certainly have their points in DePaul's victory over the Wednesday, the Irish wrestling squad (Boyd) beat Dehart earlier, but he'll hands full with the Lady Blue Demons, Irish in January. will try to overcome forfeitures in a probably not be ready to go on Sunday.''
who are currently ranked 23rd in the 

dual meet with Indiana Sunday at 2 The Hoosiers are even better in the 
nation in the AP Poll. DePaul has won Vines, who is small for a power for­p.m. in the ACC Pit. heavier weight classes, an area in 16 of their last 18 games, including eight ward at 5-10, used her quickness and 
Indiana will also have the advantage which injuries and a lack of depth have 
straight games since defeating Notre mobility to score 20 second-half points of experience over the Irish. Two hurt Notre Dame the most this season. Dame on January 18. They have since in that contest. Vines is averaging 22.4 nationally-ranked fifth-year seniors, "They're really strong in the uppertaken over the lead of the North Star points per game, and her 12.8 rebounds John Dehart and Scott Duncan, will weights, where we're kind of hurting,"Conference. per outing is sixth-best in the nation. wrestle for the Hoosiers at either 150 said McCann. "We'll have to get to 
Since losing to the Lady Blue Anderson has been a dependable bal­and 158 pounds or 142 and 150 pounds. them early to win." Demons, the Irish have gone 4-5 but lhandler for DePaul head coach Jim Nevertheless, it is the twelve points the Notre Dame received yet another les­
have picked up their level of play. One Irish will probably give Indiana on for­bright spot for Notre Dame head coach see DEPAUL, page 13 feits because of injuries to Pat Boyd see FORFEITS, page 13 
Illini to test fencers 
By TERRY LYNCH of their returning personnel Sports Writer and our losses," said DeCic­co, who will most likely cap­
The men's fencing team ture his 500th career victory will face its biggest obstacle when the Irish fence Mic­to a second undefeated higan State one meet before season this weekend when the Illinois matchup. Big Ten power Illinois faces ''Mter we fenced the Wis­the Irish in Notre Dame's consin weekend, then I felt annual home meet. that we had a shot at going 
The two fencing teams will undefeated," he continued. battle for the top spot in the "I'm going into Illinois right Midwest when they step onto now with the attitude that we the strip at Angela Athletic are the 'king of the hill' and Facility on the Saint Mary's they've got to try to knock campus Saturday. us off. If they think they're 
For Head Coach Mike the best team in the Mid­DeCicco, fencing Illinois has west, they're going to have been a worry from the start to prove in on the strip." of the season. The Fighting Illini are in
Courtesy Notre Dame Sports Infn>rm~•tion 

"At the beginning of the much the same position they 
The Irish fencing teams will host their first streaks on the line, the men's team has the year I conceded Illinois to be were in last year when themeet of the season this weekend at Angela Ath­added incentive of getting the SOOth career vic­one of the four or five teamsletic Facility. While both teams have winning tory for Head Coach Mike DeCicco that would beat us because see ILLINI, page 13 












