Fifth Sun-page 6 


VOL. XXI, NO. 100 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Scholastic
U.S. sold arms to Iran 

discussions


for release of hostages, 
•

progressing says COIDmiSSIOD report By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor Associated Press letter last Friday, as it was 
Following a meeting Wed­completing its work, because nesday, Scholastic EditorWASHINGTON-The Tower "he simply felt there were Maher Mouasher said he and
commission will report that the other recollections and Assistant Director of StudentUnited States sold arms to Iran clarifications he wanted to pro­Activities Adele Lanan made to win the release of American vide the board." 
"some progress" towardhostages, despite contrary In two meetings with the reaching an agreement that statements by President board, Reagan made conflict­would allow the magazine toReagan, but the panel could not ing statements about when he publish again. 
determine how profits from the authorized the first shipment of No compromise wasdeal were diverted to U.S. weapons to Iran, accor­reached, however, andNicaraguan rebels, a source ding to published reports. Cur­"publication (today) or Friday
said Wednesday. rent and former White House is definitely out," said Monas­Concluding a three-month in­aides have disputed each other her.
vestigation, the three-member on when Reagan approved the He added that he'll meetboard headed by former Sen. transaction. 
again today with Lanan and anJohn Tower, R-Texas, will An administration source administrator from the Officedeliver its findings to the pres­said Reagan's letter offered yet of Student Affairs. 
ident at 10 a.m. ESTThursday a third version -that he simply "I feel that we are makingand discuss its report at a news had no recollection of when he some progress, but I don't think conference an hour later. approved the shipment and it would be advantageous to goOn the eve of the report's that he may have allowed him­into specifics," said Mouasher, release, White House spokes­self to be influenced by the discussing the meeting be­man Marlin Fitzwater said tween himself and Lanan.
Reagan had sent the board a see TOWER, page 4 
"We're at a very sensitive stage. "The possibility is there for

Report: U.S. hostages are in 
an agreement at any time," he said.
custody of the Syrian army 
Assistant Vice President for Student Services Father PeterAssociated Press seized from the campus on Jan. 
Rocca, who met with Mouasher 
24. 
on Tuesday, said the Office ofNEW YORK Three A previously unknown group, Student Affarrs is "hopeful that Americans and an Indian who Islamic Jihad for the Libera­we'll get (Scholastic) rollingwere kidnapped in Lebanon tion of Palestine, on Jan. 28 pretty soon." 
last month are now in the cus­claimed responsibility for kid­Rocca said he wouldn't dis­
tody of Syrian army intelli­napping the four, and had cuss the specifics of meetingsgence officials in Beirut, NBC demanded that Israel free 400 between Mouasher and admi­news reported Wednesday. Arab prisoners. The group has nistrators.
Citing Middle Eastern and released photographs and He did say, however, thatWestern intelligence sources, videotapes of the four hostages. 
Student Affairs would "morethe network said Americans Asked about the NBC report, than likely" go along withRobert Polhill, Jesse Turner Dan Howard, a White House whatever agreement the Office and Alann Steen, and Mit­spokesman, said, "We have no of Student Activities made with hileshwar Singh, an Indian independent confirmation at Scholastic--"unless, of course,with resident alien status in the all." 
we find difficulty with it." 
United States, were turned At the State Department, "But we don't see that hap­over to a senior Syrian intelli­spokeswoman Deborah Cavin pening," Rocca said. 
gence officer, Col. Amir Taleh. said she also had no informa­

Junior Lynn Ewing and Senior Tom Skubic practice their dancing Student Activities suspended 
The report said it remains tion on the report. in Theodore's yesterday for Friday's Mardi Gras Ball. The dance Scholastic from publication onunclear who had kidnapped the NBC reported its sources 
is being sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ballroom 
four, all professors at Beirut see SCHOLASTIC, page 4
Dance Club. 
see HOST AGES, page 4
University College who were 


Pankowski, Murray chosen


Moslems vow revenge on soldiers 
for top Observer positions
Associated Press Wednesday evening 100 yards el-Shahidein (Garden of the from a mosque in the Shiite Two Martyrs) cemetery chant­Special to the Observer As managing editor, 
Pankowski will be respon­BEIRUT -Shiite Moslem ex­slums near Beirut airport in ing, "Death to the killers of the Mark Pankowski, a junior sible for the daily production 
tremists buried 23 comrades south Beirut. martyrs! Death to America! 
American studies major, of the newspaper and for in­Wednesday and vowed ven­According to police, at least Death to Israel!" 
has been selected managing itiating long-term improve­
geance against the Syrian two people were killed in editor and Brian Murray, a ments for The Observer. 
soldiers who hacked them to Beirut's fourth car bombing of They shouted "Death to junior accounting major, "This past year has beendeath with axes and bayonets. 1987. No group claimed respon­Kenaan!" Brig. Gen. Ghazi has been named business a very successful one for The 
Police and hospital officials sibility. Kenaan, Syria's military intel­manager of The Observer Observer, and I hope to con­said the men died in close com­Amal, the mainstream Shiite ligence chief in Lebanon, com­for the 1987-88 publishing tinue the growth that we
bat. The Shiites claimed they militia which is more secular mands the 7 ,500-member inter­
year. have enjoyed," said
were rounded up and mas­than the rival Hezbollah, said vention force. 
Pankowski, a native of Pankowski. "I look forward 
sacred. the car bomb exploded near the Tallahassee, Fla., has to continuing the sprrit ofThe militiamen of the pro­home of its military command­"Oh Kenaan! Oh Kenaan! 
served as news editor for the teamwork that has worked
Iranian Hezbollah (Party of er, Akel Hamieh, but he was Hezbollah will not be in­past year. He joined the staff so well in the past." 
God) were slain Tuesday in the not home at the time. sulted!" they called out. 
in the fall of 1984 as a sports Murray, a native of South
bloodiest confrontation since Bearded men shook fists in the 
writer. Bend, is currently serving asthousands of Syrians moved An Amal communique said arr and women wept. 
Pankowski joined the development manager and
into west Beirut on Sunday. the explosion set several news staff later that fall and joined The Observer in thisSyria sent the soldiers to end a parked cars on frre and A mother covered herself in was promoted to copy editor capacity last semester.
week-long factional war for wounded 17 passers-by. It dust, a Moslem gesture to show the following spring. He As business manager,control of the Moslem sector made no mention of fatalities. she wanted to join the dead, worked as assistant news Murray will be responsiblethat killed at least 300 people Hours earlier, about 10,000 and shrieked, "Oh God, I plead editor before becoming news for all business and financial and wounded 1,300. mournersmarchedthroughthe with you to avenge the killing 
editor. aspects of the newspaper.
A car bomb blew up early 
southern slums to the Rawdat of my son!" 

....----------­The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 2 
r 
r 


In Brief 
Mayor Harold Washington, fresh from his primary victory over Jane Byrne, criticized two Democrats on Wednesday for running as independents, while an analyst predicted they might ensure his re­election by splitting the white ethnic vote. Washington scored his primary victory by melding liberal white and Hispanic support with overwhelming support from blacks -producing a margin of better than 100-to-1 in one mainly black ward. -Associated Press 
A study of manic-depressive disease in three generations of a family has shown for the first time that defective genes can cause psychiatric disorders, and scien­tists say the finding could help them understand a wide range of mental illness. Manic-depressive diseases involve severe depression plus episodes of mania, which can in­clude restlessness, racing thoughts and delusions of gran­deur. -Associated Press 
People infected with the AIDS virus seem more likely to develop the disease in the second five years after they are infected than in the first five years, researchers in San Fransisco said Wednesday. The unpublished study of 104 infected men also found that 33 percent of them had developed the disease within seven years of contracting the virus. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Food and Agriculture: The World's Largest Industry" will be presented by the Honorable Richard E. Lyng, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, tonight at 8 in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. -The Obser­ver 
A Dismas House Informational meeting will be held tonight at 5:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. All those interested in living in the house next year are invited to meet at the esc at 5:30, then go to the house for supper and return to campus by 7:30. -The Observer 
"Space Defense Through Technology: The Impossible Dream?" will be presented by Dr. Richard Garwin, tonight at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium. This is the third in a series of lectures in the G.T.E. Foundation Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, "The Impact of Sci­ence and Technology on Society. -The Observer 
Auditions for "MacBeth" will be held March 2 and March 3. Interested stuents should pick up an audition form at the Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Of­fice, 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Bike-Aid participants are to meet tonight in the LaFortune Lounge at 7 with t-shirts. Bike-Aid, sponsored by The Overseas Development Network, is a program to raise funds for world hunger. A few Notre Dame students will be participating. ODN members will be accepting pledges tonight. -The Observer 
Interested An Tostal workers, who were unable to attend Sunday's meeting, may pick up application forms today on the secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFor­tune, or the Haggar College Center Desk at Saint Mary's. 
-The Observer 

Weather 
Another one bites the dust. Enjoy another Notre Dame upset with a partly cloudy day today with highs in the mid 40s. A 30 percent chance of rain tonight with lows from 30 to 35. A 70 percent chance of rain Friday with highs in the mid 40s. -Associated Press 


===-=-====-. ----&.~Y~ --·-·-­
Ibe-Ob.se~~er--­
Design Editor ...................... Rob Luxem Accent Copy Editor......... Tracie Fetters Design A,.istant .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg Typesetter ............................ Jose Novas CampiiB Scene Editor.. ............ Ed Nolan .................................. Becky Gunderman Typist .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... Colleen Foy News Editor .................. Chris Bednarski ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik Copy Editor .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. Racheal Jarosh SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Radar Sports Copy Editor .......... Marty Strasen Ad Design ....................... David Culligan Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Photographer .................. Paul Oeschger Viewpoint Layout ............... Alice Groner 
Tbe Oblerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tbe Oblerver is a member of Tbe Aslodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Real answers needed when facing county prosecutor 
The issue hasn't died yet. For those of us who 
were cited at Lee's Grill & Barbeque the fun is 
just beginning. As I opened my first letter from 
the Prosecutor's Office yesterday, I realized 
that I am now officially a criminal. 
But wait, am I a criminal? I'm not sure be­
cause I went the pre-trial diversion route. This 
process seems to cause more confusion than 
the two and a half hours I had to wait to receive 
my citation. According to the process, if I pay 
an extra $55, in addition the actual $45 fine, and 
do 10 hours of community service, then I lose 
my record. 

Maybe, I was afraid that a Class C Mis­
demeanor would come back to haunt me some­
day. Maybe I didn't want to have a "criminal 
record" with the South Bend Prosecutor's Of­
fice and the Indianapolis State Excise Police. 
But one thing's for sure, I was and still am 
confused. 

At first, I thought that pre-trial diversion was 
the best alternative. Unfortunately, I did not 
and still do not know what I have gotten into. 
The problem I'm facing is not the fact that I, 
as a nineteen year old in a tavern, broke the 
law. That's obvious by the date on my driver's 
license. The problem now, however, is getting 
a fair and honest evaluation of my legal stand­
ing. I know I'm not the only one suffering. 
Since the bust, I have received three different opinions from supposedly educated people working for the state of Indiana and operating under the same law. 
First, at the site of the citing, I was told by an officer that my ticket was simply a fine. His comment was something along the lines of, "We don't want to give students a record for some­thing as petty as this." I immediately felt relieved that I would only have to pay $45. 
The next morning, I called the Prosecutor's Office to find out how to pay the ticket. They informed me that I could not pay the ticket by mail, but would have to come to the Prosecu­tor's Office. So, I made an appointment. 
Five days later, at the Prosecutor's Office, I was told that if I simply just paid the fine, I would have a record with the state and that, in future job interviews, I would have to answer "yes" to any questions about a criminal record. After hearing these stirring words that shook my lifelong dream of someday getting a job, I signed a two-page contract that I didn't under­stand. All I really knew was that I was required to pay a $45 "initial users fee" and another $5 "monthly users fee" for eleven months. 
Now, as I prepare to pay my first "users fee," I'm wondering if it's worth it? Is there really 
~ingAdvice .···~ 

can~
alife ~· · 
"~owe~rg ~ll a~~ occagioM.'. 
-:·"'.... 

Comein and Browse 
3l7 Lincolnway .232~3354 
Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir & Chorale and the Student Activities Board present a 
MARDI GRAS BALL 
with Johnny Knorr and his 13 piece Orchestra 
Date: Friday, February 27  Dress: Formal or Masquerade  
Time: 7 pm to 10 pm  -Masks for everyone  
Where: Theodore's  -Helium balloons  
Tickets: $3 Students, $5 Adults  -Beverages & Snacks  
-Door prizes  

Tickets go on sale 211.6 -212.7 at the department of Music in Riley 
Hall anct the Student Activities Board on 2nd floor in Lafortune. 
*Aiso--212.3(Mon.)-212.6(Thurs.) there will be ballroom dancing 
lessons at Theodore's from 4 pm 5 pm. 
.,___________________.________________....} 
Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball 

Chris Murphy 
Viewpoint Editor 
Do '='ou have a rewrd. ? 
/ 

a record of the 225 criminals that were busted that night? Do companies, when offering jobs, really check this "record?" Should I have just paid the $45 fine and taken my chances that the record doesn't really exist? 
These questions need to be answered. My ig­norance of my rights surpassed my ignorance of breaking the law in the first place. But, I did ask these questions, and each time, the answers were different. 
This confusion apparently doesn't just apply to those cited at Lee's Grill & Barbeque. This is why the issue will continue to exist until we get a clear definition of our rights. The legal system was set up to protect and educate the rights of citizens, but students don't seem to reap any of these possible benefits. The city deals with us any way they want. That's fine, as long as we are aware of what the penalties are, and as long as they are honest and consis­tent with their advice. 
As I look back to my decision for the pre-trial diversion plan, I'm not so sure I made the right choice. I have a feeling, however, I made the choice the Prosecutor's Office wanted me to make. I hope that someone else reading this, facing the same situation, gets the real answers to what the situation actually is. 

The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987-page 3 



Filipinos celebrate first anniversary of Aquino government 
Associated Press 
MANILA -Filipinos cheered and danced Wednesday in the same streets where they stood en masse a year ago, faced down tanks with "people power" and drove President Ferdinand Marcos into exile. 
Bands played. Some people danced on cars and rooftops. The crowds cheered "Cory! Cory!" for Corazon Aquino, the widow of an assassinated oppo­sition leader who was thrust into his role and became pres­ident. 
Helicopters hovered over­

~ [!)mw 
(!)l1t!JCSJ!tm 
lkmll~ 
~~~\t u~~ (Q)rro (C[p) 

lilU~lil~ i~!PtD ® 0!®1 U® IAJ(!I~i ~u l!nDIDia A I!Ba~t?Ji it?J~ ® 01m. 
Hours: 11:30 -5:00 Basement of Lafortune 


ATTENTION: SENIORS! 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT The US Railroad Retirement Board is recruiting for the position of claims examiner trainee. Bachelor's Degree (in any major) is required. For additional information, a rep.. resentative from the Board will be making informal presentations. 
Date: Friday, Feb.27, 1987 Time: 10:10, 12:15, 1:15 and 2:20 Place: Stapleton Lounge of 

LeMans Hall, SMC 

Send free "God Made Me" poster 0 or, send free poster along with one-week Summer opportunities in Appalachia 0 to: Brother Jack Henn, Glenmary Home Missioners, P.O. Box 465618, Cincinnati, OH 45246-5618. 
Name _______________________ Age________ 
Address -----------------------------­City _______________ state___Zip_____ 
048/87

T~ep~e~~~-----------­
head showering flowers on the joyous crowd. Three U.S. Air Force jets streaked repeatedly across the sky. 
An enormous cheer arose as the night sky blazed with fireworks at 9:05, the time on Feb. 25, 1986, at which Marcos and his wife Imelda left the presidential palace in an Amer­ican helicopter. They were taken to Clark Air Base, then to Hawaii the next day. 
Mrs. Aquino was swept to power by a civilian-military uprising that followed the fraud-tainted Feb. 7 presiden­tial election, which the Marcos-controlled National As­sembly said he had won. 
Marcos and Mrs. Aquino were sworn in last Feb. 25 in separate ceremonies with their supporters, but Marcos gave up that evening and ended 20 years of autocratic rule. 



Theft of bookbags on the rise this semester 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
Although "we have always had a problem with stolen or lost bookbags," there has been a noted increase in the number of backpack thefts on campus this January and February, ac­cording to Phil Johnson, assis­tant director of Notre Dame se­curity. 
In January and February so far, there have been 27 re­ported bookbag thefts, said Johnson, adding that this is just two less than the total number of reported thefts for August through December. The total estimated monetary loss for the last two months is close to $3000, Johnson said. 
"I want students to under­stand that we're talking about some significant losses," Johnson said. "There is also in-

The Observer Ia accepting applications for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
News Editors (2) Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photography Editor Production Manager Advertising Design Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Projects Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin Becker by 5 p.m., Friday,. February 27 (in The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center). 

convenience that can't be mea­sured in dollars and cents." 
According to Johnson, almost all of the thefts have occured in South Dining Hall. Johnson said he feels that this is due to the high traffic zone of the waiting area. "In the North Dining Hall, you don't have all of the students' belongings con­gregated in a common lobby as you do in the South Dining Hall," he said. 
"Although some recoveries have been made, we have not, in any case, apprehended a per­son with a backpack in his possesion," said Johnson. 
Because of the congestion in the South Dining Hall, "staking that area out is very ineffec­tive," he said. "The most ap­parent solution is for students to avoid taking backpacks to the dining hall," Johnson added. 
Bill Hickey, director of Uni­versity food services, recom­mended that "students take the bookbags right into the dining room with them." 
There are two long term so­lutions that are being discussed according to Hickey. The first is potentially installing lockers but such a decision is unlikely due to limitations of space, Hickey said. "The second is opening up a checkroom where the deli is," he added. 

: Have you tried a BAHAMA MAMA yet? : 
+ Come in and pick up your free ++ Bahama Mama recipe card! ++ Corktowne has all the ingredients. + 


: CORKTO~E: 
: ~:~ho~~~::~rel keg $~::~~ LIOUORS,JNc. • 
ease of Budweiser $8.39 184~0UTH BEND AVE. t • 12-pack of Budweiser $4.76 sreteRo«t23. '•m•re-rotMar~~n·aSupem~er•er •
+6-pack of Budweiser $2.38 277-6805 •+30-pack of Stroh's $8.99 
SAB presents: 



REGGAE 
Tuesday, March 3rd 8 p.m. (Mardi Gras) FREE at Theodore's 
IPSOFACTO National recording artist performed with Kinks. Clash ~ UMO 

The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 4 


John Creel of Alder Creek, Ore. Is airborne as he starts lngton. Creel was able to ski In the area after obtaining down from the summit of Mount Saint Helens In Wash-a permit from the U.S. Forest Service. 
Arrest warrant issued for bishop 
Associated Press 
MILAN, Italy -An arrest warrant has been issued for Archbishop Paul Marcinkus, the American who heads the Vatican bank, in connection with Italy's worst financial scandal since World War II, authorities said Wednesday. 
The 1982 collapse of Banco 
Ambrosiano  has  cost  the  
Vatican $250 million.  
A  judge  investigating  the  

Ambrosiano case told The As­sociated Press the warrant charges Marcinkus, who also has served as bodyguard for Pope John Paul II, as "an ac­cessory to fraudulent bank­ruptcy" in the case. 
Marcinkus, who has denied wrongdoing repeatedly during the lengthy investigation, could not be reached for comment by the AP. The Italian news 
Hostages 
continuedfrom page 1 
said that when it became known Syrian troops were going to move into Beirut in force last weekend, the hostages were turned over to Taleh in order to keep them out of the hands of the pro-Iranian Hezbollah, or Party of God, which is believed to hold some other hostages in Lebanon. 
agency ANSA and state-run RAI television quoted him as saying Wednesday evening, "Up to this moment, I have not received anything." 
The judge, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, said police could not serve the warrant on the 65-year-old native of Cicero, Ill., unless he leaves the Vatican. 
Vatican ·  which  has the  
status of an  state.  
Marcinkus  at  

Italy has no extradition treaty with the Vatican, and court sources said there prob­ably would be no official an­nouncement about the warrant unless Marcinkus was ar­rested. 
Milan judges Antonio Pizzi and Renato Bricchetti, long in­volved in the investigation, would not comment on the case 
Scholastic 
continuedfrom page 1 
Sunday. The action came after 
Scholastic ran a photo which 
Student Activities had previ­
ously removed from Juggler's 
fall edition. 
Director of Student Activities 
Joe Cassidy has said his office 
is the publisher of both Scholas­
tic and Juggler, which are sub­
ject to the same policies. 
Because Scholastic operated 
contrary to these policies by 
printing the photo, the maga­
zine was suspended from 
publication. 
Mouasher said he and Lanon 
currently are "discussing all 
aspects of the situation," in­
cluding prior review of 
Scholastic's copy. 
According to Mouasher, 
Scholastic will stop publishing 
permanently rather than allow 
administrators to review the 
Tower 
continuedfrom page 1 
recollection of others. 
Meanwhile, a source at the Tower commission said the panel concluded that an arms­for-hostages swap was at the center of U.S. contacts with Iran. 
GOFROMCO~GE~THEAaMY
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAT. 
of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first~rate pro~ fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help you pay for off~ 
duty instruc~ tion, and if you qual~ · ifv, even . help you repay 
~insured 
student loans. Ifyou can sight~ read music, performing in the 
could be your big break. Write: 
Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216~5005. 
Or call toll free l~SOO~USA-ARMY 
ARMY BAND. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 

magazine before it's published. 
"That's been our position all along," said Mouasher. "And that continues to be our posi­tion." 
Lanan was unavailable for 
comment  late  Wednesday  
night.  
Following  the  suspension,  

Student Activities changed the locks on Scholastic's doors to keep the staff out. Staff mem­bers, however, have now been allowed back into their offices. 
According to Mouasher, the suspension already has resulted in a financial loss for the magazine. 
The cover of this week's planned issue was printed before the suspension carne down, costing Scholastic about $700. 
In addition, Scholastic was "on the verge of signing a pretty big advertising con­tract," Mouasher said. The contract may be lost as a result of the suspension. 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban Setting just 10 minutes from campus. 
You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is of the Isle. Maple provides professors 
graduate 
• .,\,uuocu,,., and administr retreat from campus. 
apartments being 
through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 
asher & Dryer in apartment 
priced 
*call for details about your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 



"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________Th-ursd~ay,F-ebrua~ry2~6,1~~7-pa~ge5 
Hesburgh and student offer advice to leaders 
In the past three days, I have shared with you some of my thoughts about student government -its strengths, its weaknesses, and its possible future. Yet, something was missing in those essays. I was writing to an audience. In this essay, I want to write to an in­dividual: someone, like myself, who wants to get involved in some way; who is devoted to improving our community in whatever way possible. 
Bruce Lohman 
guest column 

What can I share with you from my experiences that will help you in the future? What advice will help you make student involvement a winning experi­ence as it was for me? 
The first item, which I was honored to receive as a result of my involvement with a leadership conference, is from Father Hesburgh. 
Here are my Ten Commandments for student leaders: 
1. 
Look upon all of it as a learning experience. 

2. 
Mistakes are inevitable. You have to learn to live with them and so do I. 


3. Don't get caught up with global is­sues, such as remaking the whole Uni­versity and outgunning the Trustees. Politics is the art of the possible, so pick out some realistic goals and really go for them. 
4. 
Try to strike up a friendship with the administration. They aren't really bad guys and you might have someth­ing to learn from them. Also, they are not automatic adversaries. Believe it or not, they like you and want to be helpful as you mature into real leaders. 

5. 
The common good is terribly im­portant. It means the common good for students, faculty, and for the whole Uni­versity community. You are a part of it, so work for it. 

6. 
Be honest, especially with your­selves. Integrity is probably the best quality of a leader. 

7. 
Be open-minded. No other attitude makes learning possible. As Winston Churchill said, "All complicated ques­tions have simple answers. However, they are all wrong." 

8. 
Be fair, even with grown-ups. Fair­ness will win them more than anything else. 

9. 
Don't be cynical. A cynic ac­complishes nothing. All of us have to be shocked by the injustices we face in life. Cynicism will never conquer them and attain justice. 


10. This will probably sound silly, but my bottom line is laughter and love. It is important to be able to laugh at our­selves which means not to take our­selves too seriously, whether we are President or freshman. Somehow laughter gets us through the most dif­ficult of situations, but love is impor­tant, too, because in a very real sense, we can't work together unless we respect and love each other, young and old. 
I have valued Father Hesburgh's thoughts in my activities and I hope that you shall appreciate them also. 
Now, what commandments might I offer of my own? I came up with these nine. I think they apply just as well in the classroom as they do for student involvement activities. 
1. 
Learn to learn. Learning is a skill. Choose an activity like a course by the opportunity which it presents for being introduced to new material. Don't do the same thing twice. 

2. 
Learn to listen. Listening is a skill, also. I am indebted to Professor O'Meara for driving this point home for me. 

3. 
Don't ever be afraid to ask for an invitation. Whether academic assign­ments or student activities, few thing have to be done only one way. Do some­


thing different. 
4. 
Just do it. Notre Dame has a penchant to talk things to death. If you have a good idea, go for it. 

5. 
Work with people. If you want to work with a particular individual, ask that person. Like courses, the best way to choose activities is by the teacher: whether professor, administrator, or fellow student. 

6. 
Be introspective. Criticism is too easy. Self-criticism is too difficult. Test the limits of your strengths and weak­nesses, be conscious of your own per­sonal growth. 

7. 
Remember that you are not here to major in secondary subjects. 

8. 
Use the term "studentry" rather than the term "student body." Also, I stole this one from Professor Strunk. By the way, The Elements of Style, written by Professor Strunk, might be the most valuable $3.50 that you could spend in your four years here. 

9. 
Keep smiling. Smiles are infectious and healthy. 


With this, I shall lay my pen down. Good luck with your future student ac­tivities. 
Bruce Lohman is the cooridinator of student reports to the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
______P_.o_._B_ox_Q______] 
never had enough reason to write a let­Sophomore festival is Student Activities should prevent this ter to the editor. Call it apathy, per­production. If the issue is delayed, the 
there is no reason why the Office of 
haps. However, something took placeinadvertently punished material will no longer be relevant, and this weekend at Notre Dame that I fi­
As the executive board of the Sopho­hours of work will have been lost. We nally feel deserves a letter. The seniors ask that the pending issue of the have already lived through it, so you
more Literary Festival, we have been 
working to produce this event since Scholastic be allowed to be published know what I'm talking about. All I can May 1~. Because of the recent con­and the Sophomore Literary Festival say to the sophomores and freshman troversy between the Scholastic and the not be caught in the middle of this con­is-be prepared for the best weekend you 
will have here (in the first three years Office of Student Activities we may troversy. 
anyway). For those of you who mighthave been victimized along with the Jennifer Freeman be concentrating more on the latestScholastic. The issue of the Scholastic Tom Thesing dining hall cuisine than on reading the that was scheduled to come out this Scott A. Pool 
week featured the Sophomore Literary Colleen Martin paper, I'm talking about Junior Parents Festival, highlighting the various Jennifer Kroll Weekend. speakers that will be speaking. Much Pam Smith My parents must have said, of the publicity for the festival hinged Stephanie Johnson "Imagine the amount of work that went 
upon the timely publication of this Bryan Green into this," at least ten times a day. Un­issue, and, by suspending production of fortunately, since I did very little this issue the Festival is unnecessarily Committee is thanked schoolwork this weekend, I don't have 
being punished. 
the time to congratulate personally all We suggest that the current issue, be­for hard work on JPW the people who spent so much time and 
cause of its timely nature should be al­Dear Editor: energy putting JPW together. So, this lowed to go to press. The subject matter In the two and a half years that I've is an open thank you letter to Laurie couldn't possibly be objectionable, so been a Notre Dame student, I have Bink and everyone on the JPW commit-
Garry Trudeau Doonesbury 
ASH& GE75 UP 70 0/M TH/3 WHAT NOT YCAH, YUPS 1)61{15, SH& S4Y5, "OARUNG, {)() YOU JJel/E.V-5CJI&IJUL& UT5 8e 5URE TO U~ A .481.£. iVtll.YTHIN6. 
CONIXJM/NIUM!h CIJT 70 P/(f)­WCTNAME ANOOUT! 
tee. It may have seemed at times like no one appreciated what you were doing. Yet even if we didn't say it, I can assure you that the junior class is grateful. You folks did a fantastic job and deserve much more than a round of applause at the closing brunch. You created a weekend that we'll always remember. Thanks again. 
Elizabeth Durkin Pasquerilla east 

Write to P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Quote of the day 
/ \~ "When you jump for joy beware that no one moves the ground from beneath your feet." 
Stanislaw Lee 

General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuennann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of, varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1• 
Accent 
Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 6 
'Fifth Sun' shines bright 
a focus on the audience so it appears as If the narrative was actually occurring in the audi­ence. This type of production is directly contrasted to a play in which the actors focus on each other. and the action and inter­action occurs directly on the stage. From the powerful beginning of the play, when the four cosmos of Mayan mythology relate the story of the Fifth Sun. Patricca successfully com­bines Mayan culture to the CAt­holicism of Archbishop Romero. This provides the central parallelism of the play, the sacrifice of Nanautzen and Romero. The cosmos also relay biblical teachings and the Word of God as it applies to Romero's religious role. 
Because the audience is forced to analyze the conflicts that each character of the Sal­vadoran crisis face, whether it be the violence of an unjust social system, the repression of the oligarchy, or the fight for 
justice amid tyranny, the pro­duction of "The Fifth Sun" by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre was exceptional and quite unusually effective. The play will continue to run 
through Sunday, March I, and 
it is definitely worth seeing for 
its theatrical excellence and the significance of the historical 
implications that It addresses. As we approach the seventh anniversary of Romero's assas­
sination, "The Fifth Sun" is a 
superior reminder of the values and ideology that he sym­
bolized and remain Integral to our present world. 
LAURA LINDNER 
features writer 
n every age there must be 

a sacrifice to bring light and life to our present world. This Is the theme reiterated in Nicholas A. Patrlcca's play "The Fifth Sun." It ties the sacrlflce of Nanautzen in the MayarvNahuan legend to that of archbishop Romero of El Sal­vador. They "must be loved, must be spotless, pure, and without blemish" as they both became the Fifth Sun. 
Onstage==d 
FlfthSun ~~ 
"The Fifth Sun," as per­formed by Notre Dame Com­munication and Theatre and directed by Frederic Syburg. is both masterfully powerful and shockingly revealing. The Readers Theatre production forces the audience to imagine the religious strife and political repression in El Salvador. The minimal set is evident of both Mayan and Christian elements, critical to Patricca's message. The strength of the perfor­mance lies in the visual im­agery of the play as It is in­sightfully conveyed through the oral interpretation of each reader. Each reader eloquently transfers the reality of the sit­uation in El Salvador to the audience to the point that the audience is a participant in the tension. 
'The Fifth Sun" traces the life of Oscar Arnulfo Romero from 

The actors give exposition relating the story ofthe'Fifth Sun'. 
of El Salvador to his death. Romero was elected for this position on Feb . .3, 1977 when El Salvador was In the middle of a political nd socio­
economic crisis. An attempt at 
which kept most in a state of poverty, triggered government violence to suppress a potential insurrection. The few of the ruling class were committed to maintaining the traditional dis­parity. They supported Romero's appointment because of his reputation as being con­servative and conciliatory. They had hoped that he could stifle clerical opposition to the oligarchy which had heightened despite the torture and expul­sion of many priests. 
From the beginning of the narrative, the audience per­ceives the opposing forces pul­ling at Romero. On the one side the rich of El Salvador, the plored that Romero cooperate with their plans and not enter the political scene. On the other hand, Romero could not Ignore the poor of El Salvador who were vulnerable and ex-
Romero chooses to help the poor and his efforts earn him the admiration of the poverty­stricken despite the fact that he 
is a major disappointment to the wealthy land owners. Three years following his appoint­ment he was assassinated for helping the poor of El Sal­vador. He was shot while celebrating mass on March 24, 
1980. His final words were those of a saint preaching God's word: love God with all your heart and always be ready to help your neighbor. 
Patricca combines elements of Mayan culture and Cat­holicism as he relates the "transformation of an ordinary man Into a hero in the ancient suffers for the good of his people." The title of the play is adopted from the MayarvNahuan myth of the Fifth Sun, in which the son of the Lord Universe voluntarily 
Franciscan missionaries adapted this story, with Jesus as the Fifth Sun, when they Introduced Catholicism to Central America. This also helped missionaries combine Indian culture with Catholic myth and ritual. 
Readers Theatre is the style of stage production that is open to the creativity of the audience as well as those on stage. Performers do not act out the script in the traditional sense, rather they orally Inter­pret Patricca's lines. The nar­rator gives the exposition, in­cluding the setting and significant details, to the audi­ence. The performers read with 
military, the pope and the his apolntment as archbishop United States government im-sense of the word, one who 
Theology major broadens perspective ± 
S 
KRIS MURPHY scholarly publications, and an ogy has become a popular features writer emphasis on high-quality choice as a second major and teaching. These have all been a minor. enlor Michael Steinberg is hallmarks of the theology de-Weaver points out that the a science-pre-professional partment since It turned from theology major encompasses major. He's also a theology religous education to high level history, anthropology, and 

major. Steinberg's decision to tackle a double m<\Jor In these seemingly unrelated disciplines might seem strange at first but his explanation quickly dispels any confusion. 
"I had enough electives to pick up a second major and I specifically chose theology be­cause of the way that it syn­thesizes several of the liberal arts. It's an excellent program and It's small so everyone gets a lot of personal attention." Steinberg's attitude typifies the way an ever-Increasing number of students have come to view the theology Department, a department described by Dr. Eugene Gorski c.s.c. as "one of the best In this country." 
Gorski assists Ellen Weaver In the administration of theology at Notre Dame. Their depart­ment has earned Its place among the nation's best by virtue of an Internationally recognized faculty, frequent scholarship. A more recent de-literature, with emphasis on 
Searching for a small major with a lot of personal attention, a synthesis of the liberal arts and enlightened horizons? 
velopment however, has been the revised program of courses for the theology major. 
These revisions consist mainly of expanding the sub­jects treated in the theology major. Courses such as Reli­glon and Politics, Women and Religion, Spirituality and Mys­ticlsm, and Hebrew Scriptures are attracting students who view theology as one of the liberal arts instead of an iso­lated entity. As a result theol­literature. "A great deal of the­ology is learning how to ap­proach analytical texts" she says. "That teaches you to communicate with those around you and with other cui­tures." Weaver also thinks that much of America is alienated from their cultural and spiritual history. She feels that theologi­cal studies "give one a broad perspective which help us to understand our own roots." 
While Weaver overlooks most of the department's academic needs Gorski has increased what he calls "the student life components of the theology major." This has Included de­velopment of the theology forum. a diverse program of social activities and academic discussion designed to broaden the opportunities available to those in the major. 
Opportunities available to those who graduate with a the­ology major are as many and 
varied as any of the liberal arts. Perhaps even more so. In the last five years graduates have gone on to medical school, law school, marketing. nursing. engineering; teaching at everywhere from Yale to grade schools and a variety of other careers and lifestyles. There is also, of course, the opportunity for Christian Mini­stry. Senior Patricia O'Connor will graduate this year as a full theology major with a minor in computer applications. She plans on a career in lay mini­stry. Notre Dame's theology major is an excellent opportunity to gain a unique perspective on life in general. As Weaver says "Our church is structured in such a way that it is a microcosm of modern society. Understanding it gives you a deeper understanding of your history and culture." 

The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 7 
SMC wins District opener 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basket­ball team travels to In­dianapolis tonight to take on IUPUI in its second game of the NAlA District 21 playoffs, after ousting Manchester on its op­ponent's home court Tues­day night, 65-61. 
The Belles, seeded fifth out of eight qualifying teams for the single-elimination competition, were led by junior Tammye Radke, who put in 23 points, and fresh­man Julie Radke, who added 12. 
Head Coach Marv Wood was quite pleased with the results of the Belles' first playoff game. 
"It was a real team effort for us," he said. "We showed a lot of enthusiasm at this game, and we played very well." 
"Our bench was tremen­dous out there," Wood said. "I was delighted with their efforts." 
If the Belles are victorious at Indianapolis, they will play again Saturday against either Tri-State or Franklin. 
Upset 
continued/rom page 12 
going to hold the ball," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "Once the second half got going, we just attacked them early. We went right at them. That was the key for us. We just played aggressive at both ends of the floor and on the boards." 
The Irish opened a 39-33 mar­gin with just under three minutes gone in the second half, but the Demons scrambled back to a 46-45 lead at the 12:37 mark. Two Royal free throws put the Irish on top for good, but not without a scare. 
With 9: 30 left to play and Notre Dame up 51-46, Rivers picked up his fourth foul, and Phelps had to bring him to the bench. DePaul responded with a full-court press, and just 19 seconds and a turnover later closed to within one. Phelps called a timeout and reinserted his star playmaker. 
"I didn't like the turnover," Phelps said, "and I knew they were going to come after us. We were up one with the ball out of bounds. I had to gamble on that situation. I had to get David back in, rather than lose the lead. I think if we had lost the lead we would have lost mo­mentum. As long as we were up one, I knew David was going to beat the press because that's one of the things he does so well." 
Rivers, on the other hand, didn't think it was much of a gamble at all. 
"I've played longer with four fouls," said Rivers. "I have confidence in my ability to play under control when necessary. 
"I was disappointed when they took me out, but that's the coaches -they have to be cau­tious in the type of situation we had tonight. As soon as I sat down I looked at (Assistant Coach John) Shumate and told him to put me back in. I'd be all right." 
With Rivers back in the driver's seat, the Irish had no problems with the press and scored on several breakaway dunks and layups. When DePaul was forced to foul, the Irish put their free throws and the Blue Demons on ice. 
The Obaenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObaatYer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287~082 
Typtng Free Pickup and Delivery 277·7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
PRQ.TYPE Ou1111y work, word proceeelng 
IVIIIIblllty, r1110n1ble I. 277·5833. 
STUDENT OPENING Amencan lmpres&IOnlsts Sntte Museum Wednesday. Feb. 25 · 7-9 P.M "" STUDENT OPENING •••• 
DOES your club need e T -shtrt destgn? How about T·ahtrta or other imprinted sportswear?? Reasonable priCes. Call John at 1622. 
Ltke tredlttonal Chtnese patn!tngs? Real ertl Call 277·9649 7·11pm. 
BREAK THE WINTER BLUES! DAYTONA BEACH $229 PANAMA CITY $188 FLORIDA FOR SPRING BREAK! TIM x1150 BEST DEAL AROUND! 
LOST/FOUND I 
found gold Benrus quartz watch contact lost and round La Fortune 
LOST: One room key to Alumni at Junior Formal. II round, please cell Paula!1209. Thanks. 
LOST: Green suade jacket at Bridget's on Thurs. 2119. Please, I need the keys desperately! Cell 2&4·501 0 II round all next week. 
lost: EEL SKIN WALLET; single-told, brownIll's the wallet that I am really con· earned about. What was In ncan be replaced. Possibly lost In engineering auditorium, or south dining hall on Sal· urday after 8:00 p.m.. Please con1acl John Euatermenn at 283·106611 
FOUND: one German car key on stde· walk to d-2 parktng lot on Sat. night lden· lily !he make and you can have 11 back. 1672 
Found: ONE STUPID LOOKING DOLL WITH A FUNNY SAILOR SUIT. 4041 
I lost a gold Cross on the aacond floor of library on Sunday 2-22 Please call 289· 8472 II you tound II. Thank You. 
Loa!: 2 rings. SMC Class ring and Ruby ring and one Selke watch, lady's two lone. Loa! In the ACC lleld house on 2-22. Extreme sentimental value. II found please call Dena at 284·5209. REWARD 
....................................... 
LOST IN THE 4TH FLOOR FRESHMAN STUDIO OF THE ARCHITECTURE BUILDING ARMY GREEN BANANA REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAG WITH UN· MAILED LETTERS. NAME IS SEWN UNDER COVER FLAP. PLEASE CALL 2098 WITH INFORMATION. 
LOST..LOSTII GOLD ROLEX WATCH end HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING, pos· aibly at !he Miami Room In LaFortune, or In Flenner Hall. Reward lor naturn.. Please call Eric l078. loa! around 13 
February. 
Found: Love letter written by Maggie to Patrick. Found on ahullle . Interesting reading. II either ol you went !his letter, please call 2129. Ask lor Kevin Barry. ll'a good to know that Maggie Ia linally maturlng. 
LOST: White K-Swiss tennis shoes, at the ACC. Please call 4645. 
......................... .............................. 
GREEN & GOLD '87 WOMEN'S CLASS RING FOUND TUES. 1 PM IN 2ND FL. O'SHAG WOMEN'S BATHROOM. CALL KATY C1319 TO IDENTIFY INITIALS. 
LOSE SOME MONEY? I FOUND IT. HOW MUCH AND WHERE? CALL £4088. 
············································ 
LOST: BLUE BLAZER. LOOKS THE EX· ACTL Y THE SAME AS EVERY OTHER DOMER BLUE BLAZER EXCEPT IT IS MINE AND I'D APPRECIATE IT IF I COULD GET IT BACK. HAS INITIALS 
J.F.W. ON INNER POCKET AND A SET OF KEYS IN THE OUTER POCKET. LOST AT SWIM TEAM FORMAL ON ST. LOUIS ST., SAT. FEB 14. IF YOU HAVE IT AND WOULD LIKE TO RETURN IT CALL WAD AT 4639 OR DROP IT OFF AT ROLF'S. 
FOR RENT 
4BR AVAILABLE NEXT FALL SEMI· FURNISHED $440.001non. SAFE,CONVENIENT LOCATION, CALL GEOFF. 268· 7276. 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 267·6389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684-268-0955 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH LUX. FURNISHED OCEAN FRONT CONDO SLEEPS 4 ·POOL· $500 MAR 14 · 21 CONTACT MICHELLE C1259 
2 BED2 BATHoNEWFURNISHEDCPTM601 RENT OR SUMMER SUBLET CALL BILL 232·7416 
............................................ 
ORIENTALS: ANY FEMALE INTER­ESTED IN A CUL TURED,FUTURE PHD FRENCHMAN WITH A TALENT IN COOKING SEAFOOD AND REPAIRING CARS CALL PEDRO EL NEGRO AT 239-5414. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer. yr.round.Europe, S.Amer..Austral/a, Asia. All llelds. $900·2000 mo.Sightsaelng.Free inlo.Write IJC. PO BX 52·1N4 Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
................................................................ 
NEED TO BUY MACINTOSH COMPUTER. PRINTER & SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233·7722 OR 239-4478. 
I need a ride to MILWAUKEE lor the NOTRE DAME-MARQUETTE gamellll Pleaae help me and call Ann-Marla at 4015. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381· 4224 
RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE • WEEKEND OF FEB. 27-29 · WILL SHARE $$$ • CALL GRETCHEN AT 2861, 
NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE AREA FOR SB PAUL 2364 
Need ride to MPLS lor sprlng break. Call Mark at 3639 or 239-7471 between 8-9 
p.m. Will share expenses. 

SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK I STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE HEADED TO 3 FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTER COUNTY. HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MARDI GRAS PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 277· 8940 IF YOU HAVE ROOM IN YOUR CAR. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. ETC. 
I NEED RIDES TOf'ROM MIDWAY AIR· PORT I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm on Fri. Mar. 13 and I nead a ride back to NO lrom Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. !could leave the airport anytime after 6:00 am. CALL PAUL £2287. 
NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR BREAK! IF YOU HAVE ROOM FOR A RIDER PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 2939. 
HOWDY DOODY'S On US 33 One block north ol the stateline Is now accepting applicat· ions lor part· time waitresses, waiters and bartenders. Apply In per· son between 2 p.m. and 6 
p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
FOR SALE 

Comfortable ranch lor sale by owner. One Mile north ot NO library. 3 bedrooms, 2 baths-low taxes. $68,900. Call 277· 1907 
YOUR OWN CAR FOR BREAK? 1980 4dr 4spd V6 Chevy Cltation:$1350 call 1682 
Complete KEG TAP UNIT: C02 Tank, Pressure Gauge,Tapper,all Hoses AND REFRIDGERATOR · $100 x272-7649 late nights 
ATTN: Notre Dame memorabilia collec· tors. Original center jump circle !rom ACC main arena basketball lloor. Blue back­ground wllh gold NO in center. 219·287· 6392. 
Help • nead to sell $238 ticket SB-LA :vt 3, SF·SB 3-22. Best Oller. phone 4643 or 4644 
TICKETS 

Attention May Gradsll I am willing to ex· change hotel rooms lor graduation tick· ets. Seats must be In the dome. Call Robert 1546 
NEED 1 BROOKLYN G.A. CALL MIKE 1142 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free Ill March 1. 272-4453 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 806 Howard St. just otl of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 
Beat the Winter blues with the beat of the Islands. monl '"REGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO'" This and every Thursday, Come here your favorite reggae tunes spun by Jah Dave ol WVPE's 88 REGGAE STREET. SPECIAL ON RED STRIPE JAMAICAN BEER '"REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO'" 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or INH 1 car. 238-2200. Finane· lng evllr.ble lor etl US etat... 
" Spring Break Travel to New York? " " Buy Now & Seve " " $90 AT Tlx to Newark •• .. Leave :vt 2, Return 3o21 .. " Call X3586 NOW "' 
Thank you St. Jude lor your help· Thank you St. Jude for your help· Thank you St. Jude lor your help-
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND 'NEEKEND OF FEB. 27·29. CALL MIRIAM AT 2667. 
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
JUGGLER Wanta to pubtlah your flctlon, poeme, playa art worke, and photoa. Bring to 309 0'Shag. Deadline: Frl, Feb. 27 
HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO THE PIT· TSBURGH1.ATROBE AREA FOR THIS WEEKEND (FEB. 27) I CAN LEAVE AT 10 AM FRIDAY. CALL MAUREEN AT 284-5230 
ITS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
HELPII I NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH CAROLINA, PREFERABLY HILTON HEAD, FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL DAN C 1177. 
.. 194 .. 
Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. Call Miriam at 283-2687. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
The DRUIDS want YOU II you want to become a Druid, and receive all the blessings and benelltsthat being such entails. lind one of us and ask to join the Notre Dame Druid Society. 
Stonehenge endures ... 
Run, Joey, Run Kung Fu Fighting December 1963 (Oh, What a Night) Boogie Nights Get ready boogie oogle oogle 'Ill you just can't boogie no more. Wheels-a-Fun Roller Boogie It's coming ... Stayin' Alive Y.M.C.A. The Night Chicago Diad We Are Family 
SOPHOMORES..SOPHOMORESII Come join us at BEACON BOWL this Thuredayl The bus will leave lrom main circle at 9:15. $4.00 Includes bowling and traneportation. Sign up in the Claas Office by Thursday at 5:00. Hope to see you thereII 
THE LAW 
rocks 
LM'a Rlbl Set. night 
THURSDAY, 28th. LEE'S RIBS DOL· LAR MOLSONS 
with LAZY BOY AND THE SWIVEL ROCKERS and MILES LONG AND THE SHAN· TYTOWN JAMBOREE 
THURSDAY, 28th. LEE'S RIBS DOL· LAR MOLSONS 
Gumby 0, We are rooting lor you. Row'em down In Madlsonll Love, M&D, Little Sis, & your COG's 
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE· TmON GRANTED. D.A.C. 
Camp Aiello, Thursday March 5. 
St. Jude: Thanks. big guyl 
M, THANKS FOR YOUR NOTES "D HE.\RTS M." TOOl 
UMOC GREEK UMOC GREEK FOR UMOC UMOC and GREEK:IN THE SPIRIT OF DAVE MAKE MOM PROUD. YOU WON'T BE SORRY. GREEK UMOC GREEK 
RETURN AIRLINE TICKET FOR SALE PHILIDELPHIA TO O'HARE SAT. MAR. 21 DEPART 7:30PM $50.00 CALL KRIS· TIN AT 3390 
SPRING BREAK IN FLORIDA DAYTONA BEACH $229 PANAMA CITY $168 LIMITED SPACE TIM x1150 
WANTEDIII Ride to PEORIA. Two guys desperate lor ride to P-Townll Can leave anytime alter 12 on Friday. $Will PAY expenses$ Call Chris at X2075. 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
Tom DELUCA 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
IPSO 
GOING TO NEW ORLEANS FOR 
MARDI GRAS? 
HAVE ROOM FOR MORE RIDERS? 
PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 277-8940. WILL 
SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. 
to the maaler: YOU DON'T PULL ON SUPERMAN'S CAPE YOU DON'T SPIT INTO THE WIND YOU DON'T PULL THE MASK OFF OF OLD LONE RANGER AND YOU DON'T MESS AROUND WITH JIM (CARROLL) 
Trivia John. We know you like to come over and have "fun" But when you're here we can't get homework done. You sleep In our bedroom and eat our cheese, Invite her more to your pad, PLEASE! ·the roommates 
JME-What did you do to your head? Is that why you never come over any more? You deserve a dutch rubl 
Potter-Talking politics Is lots ol FUN Isn't Ill Who's buying the six pack? 
Jell Blumb Jell Blumb Jell Blumb Jell Blumb Happy Birthday ·The Obeerver 
Frlday evenlng ...Frlday ... hmmm. I know I took RA duty otl lor something. Gee, I wonder what It was? Maybe I'll find out tomorrow. 
BADIN HERD-THANKS-YOU ARE THE GREATEST FRIENDSI·LOVE MON 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACHIII Spaces still available from $200/U-Drlve $149. Call Campus Rep. at 283·4003. 

FLASH You though! I was blowing you otl? Sae. I told you ...you really don't know me al all. .. yel 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA! contact 283-4003 

................................................................ 
Hey Terp, Wepps. Yak, and Shelby (AKA Teresa, Chris, Laura, and Michelle) Here's your personal. Have a great dayll 
ONLOOKER. I HAVE ONE BIG REA· SON FOR YOU TO MEET ME. J.S. CASKO 
................................................................ 
Chris McCarthy, Princess Lela looking lor a "forceful' birthday boy with which to enter hyperspace. 
WELL IF YOU WANTED TO WISH 
GREG OTIO A VERY HAPPY 21ST 
BIRTHDAY, YOU'RE THREE DAYS 
LATEl HOPE IT WAS...FUN. 
FROM ALL OF US 

P.S. DON'T GET TOO TRASHED TONITE 
P.P.S. WE REQUEST YOUR PRES· ENCE GREG FRIDAY AT 8:30 P.M. IN AM 224 OF DILLON. YOU HAD BEITER BE THERE. 
To those great DlllonOC Guys • Thanks lor all your concern and support about my broken leg. Only 11 more days, then we can really have one ol the good old lun weekends. Take care and have a great weekend. 
Love, 

Maureen "Break A Leg" Connaughton 
P.S. TOdd looking forward to our date on Saturday ·I'll warn my dad about the "moving" palm !reel 
Attn: Ticklish Tootle Traxler Tums 21 TOday! All you males come down to Senior Bar and buy her a sho!l Live II up Babe. 
Love. Bonular. Bubbles, Linder, Lulu, and Neener 
KIDNAPPED: One Marshmallow Man 
Answere to the name of STA YPUFTI 
Last seen dressed In a aallor'a suit. 
Any lnlormatlon !hat may help reunite ua 
wlth our loved one? 
Please call 4041 
COME HOME STAYPUFTI 
COME HOMEI 

Yo Buddy, H you picked up a Notre Dame soccer sweatshirt at L.N.O. I want It beck.lnscnp. St. Zahm apr. tourn. champe. 1968. No quest. asked, cell Mlka C4335 rm 159 Zahm 
JIMBO BODZIONY YOU ARE ONE CLASSY CASE OF MASCULINITY 
'~IHMBO 

TO DANCEI 
DUCKIE NOW THAT YOU ARE 21 U R SURE TO HAVE TONS OF FUNI ESPECIALLY DURING SPRING BREAK· A SCARY PR U-N-BOB MAKE! 21 YRS HAVE COME AND GONE THE LAST 2 SEEMING RATHER LONG WE MAKE EACH OTHER MAD ITS TRUE BUT NOONE'S WORTH IT, 'CEPT FOR YOU I HAPPY B-DAYI LOVE YAI XOCHUCKXO 
GUYS, want to make some EXTRA MONEY? Be a releree lor SMC 5-on-5 Intramural Basketball call 5290 for more lnlormatlon 
SMC 5-on-5 Intramural Basketball com· lng soon! Get your teems NOW/ 
JUNIORS GET YOUR GREEN OUT FOR THE PRE-ST. PATRICKS DAY CELEBRATION MARCH 7TH. 
~~ 
I I The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 8 
IHhockey playoff slots are decided 

By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
All four interhall hockey playoff slots were decided Tuesday night in two heated battles. 
Grace, Off-Campus, Pangborn and Morrissey will be dueling for the champion­ship, beginning next week with the championship set for Wed­nesday night in the ACC. 
In Gold Division action, Stan­ford stunned Morrissey in a 2-1 thriller. 
Morrissey led, 1-0, atthe half. In the second half, helped by the outstanding goaltending of Marty Tankerson, Stanford scored two unanswered goals to win. Morrissey dropped to 4-1-1 while Stanford improved its record to 3-3. 
Stanford's upset means Mor­rissey and Pangborn have tied for first place in the Gold Divi­sion. The tiebreaker will be de­termined later this week. 
The second game saw Grace and Cavanaugh-Boward play in a must-win game for both teams. Grace did an excellent job of forechecking and con­trolling the puck, and went on to win, 7-1. 
Cavanaugh-Boward's only goal came from Clay Hamlin on its first shot of the game. Grace's scoring attack was led by senior Sam Dempsey, who racked up five goals. 
Cavanaugh-Boward coach Mike Jennings said his team had nothing to be ashamed of. 
"We played very well," Jen­nings said. "We knew coming into this game that we had a shot at knocking Grace out. It would have been nice since Grace beat us in the champion­ship last year. 
"Our goalie, Andy Fena, had a great game but they were too much. The way Grace played tonight, I predict they'll take it all." 
Grace coach Jim Rataczak was very pleased with his team. 
"We were unstoppable out there," he said. "We played collectively and calmly. Sam Dempsey and Mark Galis played extremely well. The key to the game was that we kept the puck in their zone and passed smartly." 
Cavanaugh-Boward con­cluded its season with a 3-3 record. 
Grace finished the regular season at 5-1. 




NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 
FIFTH 
SON 
by Nicholas A Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10 pm Thursday, February 26, 8:10 pm Friday, February 27, 8:10 pm Saturday, February 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, 3:10 pm 
WASHINGTON HALL $J General Admission $2 Students, Senior Citizens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday Washington Hall Ticket Office 12 noon-6 pm weekdays Master CarcWisa orders: 2.39-~9~7 
Irish football looks for new opponent or extra home game for 1988 
Associated Press Mustangs to visit South Bend. Athletic Director Gene Cor­The University of Notre rigan said Wednesday a site 
Dame could either get a new change would take care of opponent or an extra home everything. "It would be fine if game in the 1988 football they want to come here and season, thanks to illegal pay­play," he said. "It gives us an­ments and the punishment other home game." handed out to Southern Meth­odist University for such in­He added, "Because there is 
fractions. no athletic director or football 
One of the sanctions issued coach at SMU right now, I don't Wednesday by the NCAA know who to talk with down against Southern Methodist there." would cancel the Mustangs' game against Notre Dame in Notre Dame officials, aware Dallas on Nov. 5, 1988. for sometime that the NCAA 
death penalty was a possibility 
SMU was banned from par­against SMU, had made some ticipating in football in 1987 be­preliminary contacts with cause of illegal payments made other schools as a possible to players. It was the NCAA's schedule replacement. harshest penalty. 
Another sanction limits SMU "We don't necessarily have to only seven games with out­someone lined up, precisely " side competition in 1988 none Corrigan said. ' of which can be a home game. 
"It's a difficult position for 
Notre Dame also is sched­the Irish, because football uled to host the Mustangs on schedules are made years in Nov. 11. advance," said Corrigan. 
"However, schools on SMU's 
Two options appear avail­1987 schedule have bigger able to the Irish: find another headaches. It's shocking that opponent for 1988 or get the the NCAA did it for 1987." 
~******************************
* A of Endless Pasta-B/1/tles 
Call us for price quotes on
* 

* 
your SYR parties.
* 

*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* ** 525 E. McKinley, Mishawaka
*
*
* *Free Delivery* Carry out* Dine-In
*
*
* Great Pizza's Subs/pfsta•s
*
*
* Endless Salad Bar: Hot & Cold
*
* •••• f~~ta_, Fruit Ice Cream, Cheese Pizza 
** : 2Jii:a,.slor ·1· iow ·Pricii• • • ·: 
* : .., 2-1 (mix & match) :
*
* :small cheese-$8.75 lg. cheese-$11.65 :
*

* 
• 1tems: $1.00 items· $150 :* •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
11 am-1 Opm,Mo11-Thur
* 

11 am-11 pm,Fri-Sat Noon-9prn, Sun. no. 258-1111 
The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987-page 9 
Senior goaltender Lukenda helps anchor hockey program 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
Tim Lukenda would rather be lucky than good, but over his four years at Notre Dame, he could very easily be consid­ered both. 
As one of the three seniors on the young Notre Dame hockey team, Lukenda remembers when the squad was flounder­ing three years ago as a club sport dominated by bad at­tiudes, weak competition and little respect from the world of college hockey. 
Lukenda was not at Notre Dame to play hockey. He came to study, and if an opportunity to play came along, great. But school was his number-one priority. 
Then the opportunity came along and Lukenda jumped on it. 
In 1983, a year which Head Coach Lefty Smith refers to as "one of the leanest times in Notre Dame hockey history," Lukenda started in goal as a freshman and was one of the lone bright spots in an other­wise bleak year. He posted a 12-5 record with a 3.35 goals­against average and a shutout. Smith couldn't help but notice the goalie who maintained his work ethic in a losing situation. 
"Tim wasn't sure of the fu­ture of the team when he came aboard,'' said Smith, in his 19th year at the Irish helm. "Heck, none of us really were. He played solid from the start and helped to form the backbone of the teams of the last three years. He came out of nowhere to lead us his freshman year and he's formed the backbone of the teams of the last three years." 
Lukenda was Smith's top goalie during his first three 
The Observer Is accepting applications for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
Controller Advertising Manager Development Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin Becker by 5 p.m., Friday, February 27 (in The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center.) 
The Observer 
~~NDAVEAPTs:"~ 
~  Early Bird Special  ~  
Now renting for Fall  
2  Bedrooms furnished  completely  
~  Sign up before break and  
§  receive n 10o/o discount  
§  Call 234-6647  
~  Protected  by  Pinkerton  Security  ~  

i~~··.Q">o.Q>~~!";;J.<.Q"><.Q"><Q-~t<?>~<.Q">§ 
~« f:) , 

~ ,.~ -~ ,0 ~v ~'"'\· ' 
~':<~~o0<:</ Now, you can 
~oO:~':,' look Itfeel 
~",, great all yearI 
, 


,' Call us at 272-7653 
II!:• INS FUN TAN. INC 

University Commons St. Rd. 23 
Sanitized tanning bootha and beda Coupon expires March 5, 1987 
years, compiling a 25-25-2 record over that span. But this year, one of Notre Dame's best recruiting years ever, a fresh­man goalie named Lance Mad­son came along and has essen­tially taken over the goaltending duties. Lukenda has accepted his new role, but remains a vital component of the team. 
"This year has been kind of tough," said the 6-1, 180-pound native of Sault Ste. Marie, On­tario, "in that it hasn't been my best year, and we've been working Lance in, so I haven't gotten the starting time I used to get. But when I consider that as a freshman there was a good chance that I wouldn't even play, let alone start, I just have to be lucky that I've had an op­portunity to play on this team. It's been fun, and it's been great getting to know the people I've played with." 
Lukenda, looking back at his early playing days, sees the progress the team has made. 
"The team is definitely headed in the right direction," said Lukenda. "A different type of player is coming to play here now -a student-athlete 
rather than just a hockey player. If we could give a few scholarships, I feel the pro­gram would really take off. But as it is the program has a lot of potential. This past year was a great recruiting year, and a lot of teams want to play us be­cause of our name and because the program is generally im­proving." 
Smith cites Lukenda as being a big part of the leadership of his team, and realizes that the senior could handle the situa­tion he is in a lot differently. 
"Sure, Tim is used to starting and he could try to bring down his competition or downgrade the decision-making, but he's 
Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network Presents 
special guests 

ia Satellites , March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone VISA'MC call (219)239-7460 
continued to play hard and help out where he can. He's a quality individual and a good goalie," Smith said. 
Lukenda and the Irish travel south to Huntsville, Ala., this weekend for a newly-formed tournament featuring the Irish, Huntsville, and two schools from the Eastern 10 Confer­ence, Hawthorne and Upsala. Notre Dame draws Hawthorne for its first-round opponent, and while Smith knows little about the New Hampshire squad, he is happy to have the services of a couple key players again. 
"We'll probably get (sophomores) Tom Smith and Brian Montgomery back from injuries this weekend," said Smith. "That's nice, because we're finally near full strength heading into the playoffs. Hopefully, that fact will spur us on to playing the way I know the team can.,.. 
Stripe 
continuedjrompage 12 
team-leading .833 free-throw 
percentage. 
America's high school 
coaches who preach the impor­
tance of the foul shot should 
give Royal a call. 
Wednesday night's results 
Notre Dame 73, DePaul 62 
DePaul (62) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p 

Greene 35 6-11 0-1. 3 3 12 
Golden 20 1-4 -0-0 5 3 2 
Comegys 35 6·17 0·0 3 4 16 
Strickland 29 7-13 3-4 3 4 17 
Edwards 39 4-12 0-0 3 3 6 
Laux 19 1·2 0-0 2 1 3 
Brundy 23 2·3 0-0 3 5 4 
200 29-62 3-5 22 23 62 
FG Pet. -.468. FT Pet. -.600. Team 
rebounds -3. Turnovers -1 0. Assists -12 
(Greene 6). 3-point goal -Laux. Technicals 
-none. 

Notre Dame (73) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 40 6-12 10-11 14 2 22 Stevenson 37 7-15 1-1 4 0 15 Voce 33 3-5 1-1 5 2 7 Rivers 36 5-12 4-4 5 4 14 Hicks 35 6-9 3-4 8 4 15 Fredrick 1 o-1 o-o o o o Connor 6 0-3 0-0000 Paddock 60-00-Q110 
200 27-57 19-21 37 13 73 
FG Pet. -.474. FT Pet. ·.905. Team rebounds -b4. Turnovers -13. Assists -12 (Rivers 6). Technicals -none. 
Halftime ·29·29. Officials • Steve Weimer, Mike Sanzere, Randy Drury (all MAC). A ­11,418(c). 

.9 ~~
...

of 20% Discount sale items 
N.D..-S.M.C. Students 
. niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
The Observer Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 10 
Higgs-Coulthard looks for big finish to ND fencing career 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
Senior Charles Higgs-Coulthard had one bout left in his regular-season campaign last Sunday. If he won it, he would tie Pat Gerard's career foil win mark of 146. 
That's no small feat in a fen­cing program that cranks out winners on an assembly line. 
Standing in the way of that was Wayne State's Avery Goldstein, with whom Higgs­Couthard had a share of tough bouts over his four-year career· at Notre Dame. A difficult bout, but nothing that Higgs­Coulthard couldn't handle. 
But something went wrong. Higgs-Coulthard never con­trolled the bout, and let Goldstein dominate the tempo by fencing quickly. When Goldstein scored his fifth point and it was all over, he let out a yell automatically, without realizing that he was only about a foot away from his opponent. 
Catching himself, Goldstein stopped, smiled weakly, and of­fered an obligatory handshake. Higgs-Coulthard took up the of­fer and walked off the strip, shaking his head. 
A few minutes later, he walked up to Irish head fencing coach Mike DeCicco. 
"Did you see it, coach?" asked Higgs-Coulthard. "Tell me what went wrong with that bout," said DeCicco. "I rushed it," replied Higgs­Coulthard. 
"That's just it," DeCicco said. "You were too fast. Nobody's going to give out any awards for finishing a bout un­der a minute. You wanted to get it all over with, take a shower and go home. I wanted you to win this bout because of what it meant to you." 
At that, DeCicco smiled and gave Higgs-Coulthard a hug. The regular season was over. But there was more to it than that. If Higgs-Coulthard wanted the record, he could have had it easily by racking up wins on worse teams than Wayne State last weekend. 
"I wanted to make it memorable," said the senior foil captain from Scottsdale, Ariz. "I wanted to make it worthwhile -if I could ac­complish that, then I deserved it." 
And you have to be a pretty good fencer to have opponents like Goldstein to lose control of themselves when they beat you. 
"He's been trying to do that for three years now, and he fi­nally did it,'' said Higgs-

Mike DeCicco Coulthard. "He fenced a very good bout. I let him play his game, and that's the biggest mistake I made." 
Now Higgs-Coulthard is trying to finish up a brilliant career by "going out in style." He plans to do that by imitating the way he came in. 
As a freshman, Higgs­Coulthard took the fencing world by storm when he climbed to the top in the foil in the 1984 NCAA Championships. Mter finishing fourth as a soph­omore, Higgs-Coulthard fol­lowed teammate Yehuda Kovacs by capturing third place at the NCAAs. This year, he and Kovacs will again bid for the top spot in the foil, and it puts the two fencers in an unusual position of rivalry. 
"If it happens, it happens," said Higgs-Coulthard about a possible confrontation with Kovacs in the NCAAs. "I'd like the last bout to decide it. Last year, coming in second and third like we did was so frustrating. We got so close and we didn't make it. 
"It provides extra incentive for this year." 
Instead of going with his teammates to Dearborn, Mich., for the Great Lakes Championships, Higgs­Coulthard will go to Los An­geles to participate in a national-circuit event that will help him accumulate points to achieve his goal of participat­
ing in the World University Games. 
Ultimately, Higgs-Coulthard wants to participate in the 1988 Olympic Games in Seoul, Korea. He will train here with women's head coach Yves Auriol next year, and then plans to attend medical school. 
Freshman Joel Clark (20-2) will replace Higgs-Coulthard this weekend at the Great Lakes Championships, where the Irish have a three-year streak of first-place finishes. Derek Holeman (33-3) and Kovacs (34-1) will round out the foil team. 
Kevin Stoutermire (46-2), Geoff Rossi (33-9) and Tim Col­lins (36-9) will comprise the sabre team, and Tim Vaughn (34-7), Todd Griffee (33-6) and John Haugh (18-4) will round out the epeeists. 
Auriol will bring Molly Sul­livan (21-4), Janice Hynes (36­5), Kristin Kralicek (40-6) and Anne Barreda (37-8). Cindy Weeks (38-9) will be the alter­nate. 
AWORD FROM "PYTHON"PLKOPO U•WRESnERABOUT MILLER LITE TillE'S 0111011 una'' *TRANSLATION: A SUPERBLY BREWED. FINE TASTING PILSNER BEER.  


'JI['t(Jt~4tll~--------------------------------------------------------T•h•~-s.da•y•'•F•e•br.u.ar•y•2•6•'•1~.7_.-P•a•g•e.. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
tr'5 ..+fY ANXI!TY I'P 115K HIM ~r, 171111••• ~ If l«<~ 577ti. 71£Y'Kc 60fN6 Ifn TCRI?I!JlY t..OOPY ll51l 10 6f?IN6 tJf/T /lN'IIOf/5. I mf'T M£1/~IU KNOWWH11T 
~1W!N1Y !U !/51< HIM. 'YE/IK5 fmtf foKJW. 
More Bloom County 
80f?IS ··me 

''11{6
tr'u. ··me Ff6Hf
so 
SAB presents: MALTESE FALCON 
SAB presents: Tonight 7, 9, 11 $1.00 
Fort Lauderdale 9112 WEEKS for Spring Break 
Friday, Saturday 7, 9: 15, 11: 30 
Sign-up in basement of LaFortune 
Engineering Auditorium 
.3 -5 p.m. Today and Tomorrow
Absolutely no foodtirinks allowed 
MAll f?I/5511/N· WHIIT'S Kfl80KOV 
Pf?O

P£ A 1 10 ~ET 
WKCSrl.IN6TH£ f€1117.1(€ 1/ei?SiJS 
M11fCH HIJ(.I< 'M/1/le 
~'J(.ft. 1HIN66 r IS 50 
TDNt&Hr( IN llMY<ICII • 
RI&HT. '80s/
f{()&AN.

\ 
Campus 
11:00 a.m.: Women's Swimming trials, finals at 7:00p.m. Mid-West Independent Invitational Championships, Rolfs Aquatic Center 3:00-5:00p.m.: SMC Campus Ministry Lecture "Struggles for peace in the Philip­pines," by Arachela Suzard, Church Coal­Ition for Human Rights for the Philip­pines, Washington D.C., Stapleton Lounge 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Ap­pleWorks Database, 108 Computing Cen­ter, limit 5. To register call Betty 239-5604 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Dept. Graduate Seminar "Separation and Con­centration of Fermentation Products Using Liquid Emulsion Membranes," by Michael P. Thien, MIT, 224 Cushing 
4:00 p.m.: Cushwa center for the Study of American Catholicism Lecture "To Serve the People of God: Nineteen Century Sisters and the Creation of an American Religious Life," by Margaret Susan Thompson, Syracuse University, Memorial Library Loun~e 
7:00 p.m.: Thursday Ntght Film Series "Essene," 1972, Black and White, 89 minutes directed Frederick Wiseman, USA; and "Night and Fog," 1955, color, 30 minutes, directed by Alain Resanis, France, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00-8:30p.m.: SMC Alcohol Awareness Week Lecture "If You Want To Get Down... Cocaine." Stapleton Lounge 
7:30 
p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters And Department of En~lish Lecture. Theme: Feminist Critictsm and the Literary Virtues of Re-Reading. "Shakespeare, Mother of Us All," by Cop­pelia Kah, Wesleyan University, Architec­ture Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Film, "Fatima," Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune Student Center, free and open to the public 

7:30 
p.m.: Lecture, "James Turrell's Roden Crater Project," by Professor Craig Adcock of Florida State University, 127 O'Shaughnessy 


\ 

7:30 p.m.: G.T.E. Foundation Distin­guished Visiting Scholar Series and the Program in Science, Technology, and Values Lect~e Theme: The Impact of Sci­ence and Technology on Society. "Space Defense Through Technolgy -The Impossible Dream?" by Dr. Richard L. Garwin, Federal Science Policy Adviser and IBM Research Scientist, New York, Library Auditorium 8:00p.m.: College of Arts and Letters Lec­ture "Food and Agriculture: The World's Largest Industry," by The Honorable Richard E. Lyng, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Center for Continuing Edu­cation Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: SMC Dept. of Music Recital Mary Patricia Bach, soprano guest artist, Larry Dieffenbach, piano, Little Theatre 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Meatloaf Shrimp Fried Rice Macaroni & Cheese Casserole Polish Sausage on a Hot Dog Bun with Sauerkraut 
Saint Mary's 

Swiss Steak Turkey Broccoli Divan with Copen­hagen Sauce Grecian Pocket Pita Deli Bar 
fllTCF?.CifT!ON 71J C/ltJ5£
f'!r<SP!RA1ioN/ 
"Horse! ... Is there a man called 'Horse' In here?" 
The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1-the Red 5 Movie dog 9 Of the church: 
abbr. 13 Zhivago's love 14 Singer John 15 Taxi rider 16 Use kindling 18 Set loose 19 Postulate 20 Brings back 
to nonnal 22 Mediocre 24 Eng. party 25 Pert 28 Tote­31 Garibaldi's 
land 34 Coastal flyer 35 Of blossoms 37 Nail or hold 38 Even Steven 39 Actress Sophia 40 Mitchell's 
plantation 41 Country 
monogram 42 Carried on 43 "-,poor 
Yorick!" 44 Hyson kin 46 Wander Idly 47 Concerning 
old style 48 Rhyme scheme 50 Famed Mich. 
grid coach 52 Claps 56 Most painful 60 Goddess of 
earth 61 Deflate gossip 63 Allowance 
for waste 64 Coast or tower 65 Mud 66 Rice drink 67 Checks 68 Remain 
DOWN 1 Schiaparelll 2 Dam ltl 3 Gershwin 
et al. 4 Fondled 
C1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
2/26/87
All Rights Reserved 
5 Landon 6 Mix 7 Ripped 8 "-of robins 
in her... " 
9 Exertion 10 Be a tattler 11 Manitoba 

Indian 12 Dregs 14 Corrodes 17 Helen of­21 Slave 23 Rectangle 25 Organization 26 Revolt 27 Emulate Tom 29 Artery 30 Avaricious 2/21/17 32 Navigational 45 Monastic 54 Hindu god 
aid 47 Old lyre 55 Parvenu 33 Baker's Item 49 Examine 57 Give off 35 Ga. neighbor eccounta 58 Shore bird 36 "The King -1" 51"-can you 59 Playing 
40 Fits of rage ......" card 
42 Singer 52 Splea: abbr. 82 nme periods: Mcintire 53 Rubber type ebbr. 
Thursday, February 26, 1987 -page 12
S~orts 
Irish knock off fourth-ranked DePaul 
ND pulls out 73-62 victory, gets third big win of month 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN coach Joey Meyer. "I think Sports Editor they wanted the game a little more than we did. They came 
February is the smallest up with the loose balls. Anyth­month on the calendar, but for ing that went on the floor they the Notre Dame basketball came up with. I'm a little team, it's been the biggest on frustrated, but it just comes the schedule. Three times this down to the fact that they short month a Top 20 team has wanted it more than we did." come to the ACC, and three Notre Dame's Donald Royal, times the Irish have sent them who paced the Irish in points packing. with 22 (10-of-11 free throws) 
Wednesday night, the ACC and rebounds with 14, agreed and the Irish claimed their with Meyer's assessment be­latest victim with a 73-62 upset cause of the revenge factor. of the fourth-ranked DePaul "We did want it more be­
Blue Demons. The win upped cause of our five-point defeat the Irish season record to 18-7, by them in the Horizon (on Jan. while the Blue Demons suf­10)," said Royal. "We didn't do ftred only their second loss the little things in the last min­against 25 victories. ute which cost us that game. 
"This is a crazy place when We didn't want to go into the a Top 20 team comes in here," same situation. We were deter­said Irish guard David Rivers, mined to win this ballgame." who scored 14 points. "The fans Notre Dame's determination 
set the stage for upsets. They was evident from the outset, as come in screaming and chant­the Irish disdained their ing. This is a really crazy deliberate offensive style and place." jumped out to 16-7 lead with 
In the upset wins over North 13:31 to play in the first half. Carolina and Duke, the key But the Blue Demons, word for the Irish was patience. notorious slow starters, fought 
Against DePaul, the key word right back by going to their big was aggression. The Irish went gun, senior center Dallas Com-right at the Blue Demons from -egys. the opening tip to the final horn. Comegys scored six-straight They crashed the boards and points as DePaul went on a 14-4 finished with a 41-25 rebound run to take the lead with 4:51 margin (14-7 on the offensive to play and would open a 29-26 end). advantage with 59 seconds 
They pounded the ball inside remaining. A Mark Stevenson to draw fouls and shot 21 free three-point play forged a throws (made 19) to the halftime tie. And then, the Irish Demons' five (made three). went for the jugular. Most of all, Notre Dame played "When we had the dry spurt with desire, working for every after we jumped out, I think a loose ball. lot people thought we were 
"I have to give Notre Dame 
see UPSET, page 7
credit," said DePaul head 


The Observer /Robert Jones 

Although Irish forward Donald Royal commit­bit on 10-of-11 free throws as a result of Blue ted a charging foul on this drive to the bucket Demon fouls in last night's Notre Dame upset over DePaul's Dallas Comegys (35), the senior of DePaul. 
Royal hits on 10-of-11 from line; foul shots crucial in another upset 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer  what we did today." The "ice man" for the Irish last night was Donald Royal.  game, one would tend to think Notre Dame would exhibit cau­tion driving to the hoop.  
It's free, but it be can worth  The senior forward had a hot  "You've got to take the ball  
so much when the game is on  hand from the stripe, canning  right to him," said Royal. "You  
the line.  10-of-11 on the evening. His only  can't be intimidated by the fact  
This gift is the free throw, the only uncontested shot in bas­ miss can almost be forgiven, coming on an attempt to com­ that he is a great shot blocker -he really uses that to his ad­ 
ketball and Notre Dame used  plete the three-point play after  vantage. But if you take it right  
it last evening once  again to  David Rivers had set him up  to him, you'll either score or  
pull out a victory over DePaul,  for  a  thunderous,  bring-the­ get the foul."  
73-62.  house-down dunk.  The Irish took it right to Com­ 
The  Irish  hit  19-of-21  foul  "Before  the  game,  Coach  egys and the rest of the DePaul  
shots, including eight in the  told us the game would prob­ squad early in the second half,  
final two minutes of the game,  ably come down to foul shots,"  drawing five quick fouls in the  
to secure the upset victory. For  said Royal. "We put in a lot of  first 3 : 20 after the intermis­ 
the season, the Irish have shot  time  all  week  shooting free  sion. That would make the dif­ 
75 percent from the line, con­ throws."  ference down the stretch, as the  
verting  on  393-of-525  free  Exactly one year ago to the  Blue Demons put Notre Dame  
throws.  What  is  impressive  d.1y, in Notre Dame's 70-59 vic­ in  the  bonus  with  over  11  
about this statistic is that Notre  tory over the Blue Demons last  minutes  remaining  in  the  
Dame has gone to the foul line 126 more times than their op­ponents. "We feel we can drive on  season, Royal connected on all 16 of his free throws to lead the Irish and break a 19-year-old school record.  game. Once in the bonus, the Irish hit 14-of-15 free throws to put it out of reach. "They (free throws) are so  
people and get the ball inside,"  "It's just a  matter of  con­ important,  especially  in  a  
said Notre Dame head coach  centrating  and knowing that  game like this when it comes  
Digger Phelps. "We've done that all year. We feel that we  you can hit from the charity line to put the game away,"  down to the wire,'' said Rivers, who was flawless in his four at­ 
can take the ball to the hole and  added Royal.  tempts  from  the  foul  line.  
create the situation where we  With DePaul's 6-9 senior all­ Rivers, whose dribble, dip and  

Notre Dame forward Mark Stevenson sails to the hoop for two have the bonus at the end of the America candidate Dallas shoot routine has netted him 
game. That's how we feel we Comegys patrolling the paint
of his 15 points in a 73-62 Irish victory over DePaul last night at 
can ice the game and that's and averaging 3.6 blocks per
the ACC. see STRIPE, page 9 


