Careers Unlimited-INSIDE 

VOL. XXI, NO. 85 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5,1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11's 

Six to run for ND student body president 
By BETH CORNWELL Gonzales must declare his 
Staff Reporter running mate by 1 p.m. today, 
according to Ombudsman 
Six potential student body Election Committee Chairman 
presidential tickets and at least Dan Gamache. Cooke and 
one candidate from each stu­Bink, who have declared their 
dent senate district were pres­candidacies but have not yet 
ent at a mandatory meeting for specified which will be the 
prospective candidates Wed­presidential nomminee, must 
nesday night. also register their decision with 
The prospective presidential the Ombudsman committee by 
tickets include Theodore's 1 p.m. Thursday. 
manager Vince Willis and Incumbant senator Brian 
junior class president Cathy Holst is the only candidate run­
Nonnenkamp, juniors Todd ning in senate district one, 
Graves and Brian Moffitt, which includes St. Edward's, 
Grace Giorgio and Bill Sam­Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, 
mon, Willie Franklin and Jim Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, and Old 
Mangan, Black Student Union College halls. 
President Martin Rodgers and Sophomore Sean Hoffman 
L.B. Eckelkamp. registered three minutes 
Sophomore Class President before the 7:30 p.m. deadline Pat Cooke and J.P.W. Commis­to delare an unopposed can­sioner Laurie Bink, as well as didacy for senate district sophomores Raul Gonzales and two, which includes Stanford, either Ray Lopez or Chuck Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, 
meeting for candidates last night. Five otherNeidhoefer also declared their 
candidacies. See CANDIDATES, page 3 candidates also attended. Story at left. 

Three to vie for SMC Waite detained by radical Moslems 
Associated Press held in the Lebanese capital by of the Lebanese people and gov­

student body offices 
Hezbollah, or Party of God, and ernment, who are very keen to 
LONDON -Missing hostage the radical Shiite group in­see Terry Waite back soon in 
By KAREN WEBB "Experience is key," Cook, negotiator Terry Waite ~as tended to try him. SAT 1 gave Britain and continuing his 
Copy Editor current vice president for stu­been taken before a drumhead no sources and did not specify humanitarian role," the 
dent affairs and the only mem­court of radical Shiite Moslems the charges. Church of England said in a 
Confirming their intention to ber present from her platform, and ordered "detained," the It said Waite was being kept statement. run for Saint Mary's student said after the meeting. "It Independent Television net­in Bir al Abid, a southern sub­It described the 30-minute body offices, members of three won't hinder creativity or work reported Wednesday. urb of Beirut, and had never meeting at Lambeth Palace, platforms attended a pre­originality but it even allows us Correspondent Brent Sadler been taken to the Syrian­Runcie's London residence, as election information meeting to more creative." said from Nicosia, Cyprus, that occupied Bekaa Valley of east "very friendly and informal." Wednesday night. Cook said her goals include "a usually reliable Moslem Lebanon, as has been reported. The archbishop is spiritual 
The meeting, at which Stu­to restructure the student aca­source" reported that several Hezbollah is believed close head of the Church of England dent Body President Jeanne demic council, to provide a Shiite fundamentalists ap­to, or synonymous with, the Is­and the worldwide Anglican Heller spoke, was the first of body that can express students' peared in the unofficial lamic Jihad group that holds Communion. two pre-election meetings, one concerns to the admininistra­proceeding as witnesses American and French cap­Spokeswoman Eve Keatley of which prospective candi­tion, and to provide a forum against Waite, the personal en­tives. Among them are two said the church was "still hope­dates are required to attend. where students and depart­voy of Archbishop of Cantur­Americans for whom Waite ful of action" from the arch­
The three platforms, each ments can work together. bury Robert Runcie. was said to be negotiating: bishop's appeal for help last consisting of three candidates "As far as objectives, we There was no corroboration Terry Anderson, 39, chief week to Hashemi Rafsanjani, for the offices of president, vice would like to re-evaluate and and the Church of England said Middle East correspondent of speaker of Iran's parliament. president for student affairs, somewhat reorganize hall gov­it had no confirmation that The Associated Press, and Runcie wrote in response to and vice president for aca­ernment" and work to improve Waite, who dropped out of sight Thomas Sutherland, 55, acting Rafsanjani's offer of aid. demic affairs, are: Sarah residence life, Cook said, be­in Beirut on Jan. 20 to negotiate dean of agriculture at the Justice Minister Nabih Berri Cook, Janel Hamann, and Jill cause "living in a dorm for four with kidnappers of foreign American University of Beirut. of Lebanon, who also leads the Winterhalter; Eileen Het­years can be an unpleasant ex­hostages, had become a cap­Lebanon's ambassador, Maj. major Shiite militia, said Mon­terich, Smith Hashagen, and perience." tive himself. Gen. Ahmed el Hajj, met with day that Waite has been "ar­Julie Parrish; and Ann Rucker, The West German cable sta­Archbishop Runcie on Wednes­rested" by Islamic Jihad. He
See OFFICES, page 5 
Ann Reilly, and Ann Eckhoff. tion SAT 1 said Waite was being day "to express the sympathy did not elaborate. 

Democrats call for an end to funds for weapons testing 
Associated Press Leaders of the effort said the him to drive the policy in an­resolution, called the test "the bill, which has 140 co-sponsors
show of unity reflected mount­other direction." ultimate in bad faith . . . The and will be introduced in the 
WASHINGTON House ing frustration and fundamen­The Soviet Union has not opportunity (for a test ban) has Senate soon. As an alternate Democrats, angry about a nu­tal disagreement with detonated weapons since Au­been lying around for 18 strategy, they said they will at­clear test this week under the Reagan's arms control policy, gust 1985. But Soviet leader months. It's growing whis­tach the measure to the defense Nevada desert, called Wednes­and could result in a congres­Mikhail Gorbachev said in kers." authorization bill scheduled to 
day for halting funds for weap­sional standoff with the White December that he would end Mrs. Schroeder said the come up this spring. ons tests, postponing further House. the unilateral moratorium frustration ·level is such that This week's test and a protest explosions and pursuing after the first U.S. test explo­moderate Democrats have now by anti-nuclear activists, immediate test ban negotia­"No matter what the presi­sion of this year. joined with liberals to seek fun­among them . actor Martin tions with the Soviet Union. dent's saying, I think his policy Mter Tuesday's blast, the of­ding restrictions that would, Sheen and astronomer Carl 
The resolution denouncing is an all-out arms race," said ficial Soviet news agency Tass for all practical purposes, end Sagan, had been scheduled for Tuesday's test and urging Rep. Richard Gephardt, D­said it could push the Kremlin nuclear testing. Thursday. An Energy Depart­President Reagan to seek the Mo., chairman of the caucus to resume test exRlosions "with "There's been a real turn­ment spokesman said the nuclear test ban was approved and a prospective presidential redoubled force. around," she said. schedule was changed because unanimously by more than 130 candidate. "We intend to fight Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D­Gephardt and Mrs. the test was ready, but lawmakers at a meeting of the him on these issues. We're not Colo., who with Gephardt has Schroeder said they fully ex­House Democratic Caucus. content to stand by and allow introduced a bill similar to the pect a presidential veto of their See DEMOCRATS, pqe4 
• 

~ ~ 
! ~ 
I I I 
I I I 
I 
The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 2 
~~~--------------------------------------~ 

, In Brief 
The number of incunabula in the Memorial Library is now 76, thanks to a gift of a text written by Egidius Romanus, bearing the first-edition printing dated of Feb. 6, 1496-97. Incunabula are books printed before 1500. The author was a member of the Order of the Hermits of Saint Augustine who became Archbishop of Bourges, France, in 1295 and died in 1316, according to Prof. A. L. Gabriel, director emeritus of the Medieval Institute, and donor of the book. -The Observer. 
Off-key singers are in demand by a University of Washington music professor who says she c~n teach anyone to sing. Elneta Cooper has taught an evenmg, non­credit class in tuneful singing since 1979 and only accepts the worst of off-key warblers as students. -The Observer 
Laser Tag gets the green light at s~me campuses, where it is almost an official sport. Teams like the Lensmen of California State University-Long Beach and the Falcons of Seattle Pacific University participated in the sport's first national collegiate championships last month. Players shoot guns emitting infrared beams while wearing targets that register hits with red lights. The game was originally designed for children.-The Observer 
A Video News system has r~placed th~ Coll~ge of Business' in-house newsletter at Oh1o State Umverstty. A two-minute news segment is repeated continuously, Monday through Friday. The video can be prepared much more quickly than the printed newsletter, which required two months to produce. Officials hope the video format will also increase student interest in college activities. 
-The Observer 
Morning traffic reports from Mo_scow's Red Square will be heard in Sima,Val~ey, Cal. _thts summer, while a wisecracking local dtsc Jockey will play to an audience in the Soviet Union. In exchange, a broadcaster from Radio Moscow will get his own weeklong show on Simi Valley's own station KWNK in the summer. The So­viet invitation was issued after DJ dick Whittington called the Soviet Embassy in Washington during his show to say he could help improve cultural relations between the United States and Russia because he once attended a So­viet ballet. -Associated Press 
Thousands of elite Soviet commandos and paratroopers backed by waves of jets and hel_icopter gu?­ships on Wednesday attacked. Mos.lem guernlla bases. m Afghanistan close to the Pak1s~am border, _sources sa1d. The major offensive came desp1te a cease-ftre calle~ last month by the Communist government of Afghamstan, which is backed by an estimated 115,000 Soviet troops. Guerrilla leaders rejected the cease-fire, and Western sources said Tuesday it had collapsed. -Associated Press 
A Daytona, Florida man accused of using his 3-year-old daughter as collateral when he bought ~0 W?rth of marijuana has been sentenced to 15 months m pns_on on drug charges. The girl, who police said w~s left w1th a drug dealer in a motel room for about four mmutes, was returned to her mother after Floyd W. Cook was arrested by undercover officers Oct. 22. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"The Constitution and Higher Education," a series to be sponsored as the Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns. Prof. Philip Gleason will speak on Cath­olic Higher Education in the American context this Friday. The discussion is open to faculty and staff and will be held from 12: 15 to 1 p.m. in the multi-purpose room of the esc. 
-The Observer. 

Weather 
Today's lineup has _par~ly sunny in the starting slot, averagmg m the up­per 30s. Off the bench tonight ":'ill be un­seasonably mild with lows falhng to the mid 20s followed by a relief appearance by mo;e unseasonably mild tempera­tures Friday with highs near 40. 
' -Associated Press 
Deaign Editor .................. Kathy Huston Accent Copy Editor......... Tracie Fetters Typeoetter ............................ Jose Novas Accent Layout............. Katy Kronenberg .................................. Becky Gunderman Typist ................................. Colleen Foy News Editor .................. Chris Bednarski ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ..................... Rachal J arosh SMC Day Editor ..... Therese Harrington Sporta Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Photographer .................. Paul Oeschger Viewpoint Layout ............... Alice Groner 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Observer is a member of The Aaaoclated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
.. ------~--­

Press has a chance to bring positive attention to AIDS 
Pianist Liberace, famous for his garish cos­tumes and flashy rings, died Wednesday. At his death, however, a new notoriety overshadowed the legacy of Liberace's career, as the press spe<;ulated that he died of AIDS. 
This type of press speculation is nothing new; it has happened before. When Rock Hudson died, for example, the newspaper headlines did not report simply that the actor had died, but that he had died of AIDS. More recently, the death of designer Perry Ellis generated contro­versy when several dailies, including The Washington Post, suggested that AIDS was the probable cause. The Liberace obituaries are simply another episode of AIDS speculation, and thus are not particularly interesting. 
What does interest me, however, is the jour­nalistic dilemma such reports pose, the ethical problem of whether newspapers should violate the victim's privacy by citing AIDS as a possi­ble cause of death. The question currently causes debate among editors and AIDS victims alike, and its answers are inextricably caught up in the social stigmas and health hysterias surrounding the disease. 
To say that AIDS carries with it the stigma of homosexuality in a heterosexual society is nothing particularly new or profound. One need only note the proliferation of AIDS jokes in the past few years (one popular joke book dedicates an entire chapter to poking fun at the predominantly gay disease) to perceive that homophobic Americans are slow to accept the deadly seriousness of AIDS. Just yesterday, I heard a student say with a chagrined laugh that he had lost the Liberace death pool; several of his friends had placed bets on when Liberace would die from AIDS. 
Given this jeering attitude and the morbid fascination with AIDS, it is not surprising that families of AIDS victims would want to disguise the diagnosis with vague obituaries. But if we are to dispell this cavalier attitude that the dis­ease is a joke, the press must publicize that AIDS is killing thousands of Americans each year, including public personalities with whom we are familiar. 
This was precisely the reason why a Honolulu paper decided to announce that its managing editor was suffering from AIDS. When Execu­tive Editor of the Honolulu Star-Bulletin John Simonds discovered that Bill Cox was resigning his, job because he had contracted AIDS, Simonds grappled with the problem of how -­or even if--to report Cox's illness. 
"Is it anybody's business what somebody's personal health is?" Simonds was quoted by the Columbia Journalism Review. "If he had appendicitis or TB or something with no social 
Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

stigma attached to it, would that be newsworthy?" 
Probably not, but fact remains that AIDS is news, news about which the American public has misconceptions, prejudices and fears. Re­alizing his position with the Star-Bulletin pro­vided a forum for education, Cox decided to write a column about his condition. 
"As a journalist, I have spent my career trying to shed light in dark corners," Cox wrote. "AIDS is surely one of the darkest corners. It can use some light." 
Cox's column shows how reporting on AIDS can have a positive, enlightening effect on the reading public. The ethical problems occur when the reports are used for exploitation rather than education. 
Headlines like the one in Tuesday's Chicago Tribune, which read "5 Catholic churchmen dead of AIDS," use the disease to titillate the reader's curiosity and exploit clerical taboos . . . and in the process, raise revenues. After all, journalism is a business, and AIDS sells papers. 
As the AIDS problem grows, so will the chal­lenge facing the press. One would hope editors will use their public forums to bring positive attention to the disease, and not simply to con­tinue its status as a misunderstood social prob­lem. 
Recruiting Students for Academic Year 1987-88 To Live in DISMAS House ~­·~· AJt~A_ 'IJV DISMAS of Mlchlaoa, Inc. Undergraduate, graduate, and law students Invited. Room and Board is $225.00 per month. Beautiful home downtown South Bend. Experience a warm caring community for the purpose of helping former prisoners adjust. Applications avaUable from Kathy Royer at Center for Social Con­cerns, 239-7862. Come to an informational meeting TONIGHT 5:30-7:30 at the esc Meeting will include tour of Dismas House and dinner  

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 3 


Professor: female ideals too high 
By PEGGY PROSSER Staff Reporter 
Women tend to set very high standards of perfection for themselves, which are ad­mirable, but unrealistic, accor­ding to Saint Mary's assistant professor of psychology Cath­erine Hale. 
In a lecture, sponsored by the Sexuality Education Council of Saint Mary's College, she said women set themselves up for failure and low self-esteem. 
Self-esteem is rarely associ­ated with women, who spend the majority of their lives wis­hing they had greater self­esteem, Hale said. This affects the way women cope in addi­tion to everything women do, see or think, she added. Hale also said the lack of self-esteem affects women's choices con­cerning boyfriends and mates. 
Self-esteem and self-concept do not go hand in hand, Hale said. "Women who seem so full of confidence have grave doubts and misgivings about their own abilities," she added. 
According to Hale, most wo­men cannot express what it is they like about themselves, probably from a lack of self­esteem or self-concept. She cited examples of colleagues and students who, when asked what it is in particular they like about themselves, gave such answers as, "I have nice teeth," or "my parents are pleased with how successful I am here in college." 
Neither self-esteem nor self­concept is present at birth, but are nurtured throughout a per­son's life, Hale said. "We learn from two main sources, people who are around us and how those people treat us as our­selves," she added. 
According to Hale, everyone has his or her own "Ideal Self" which is the notion of who we think we should be. "The wider the gap between self-concept and ideal self, the lower the self-esteem." Hale said. 
The majority of fathers want sons, she said. The birth of a daughter, therefore, brings about more problems and distress between couples as fat­hers admit to feelings of disap­pointment and deprivation 

nY~~ 
o/lk ~o/s~ ~QIIM and 
YaVn£L,'6 ~ ~tk~o/rw-~ attk y~ !F~ ~~ ~am,u 
lm 

Y~.tkP&iojLd 
s~~am<~~· n rg~ f!Aalkxmt (JJ~~ 17 gad~ !/bed ~.f~ 

·,., :,.,·:!~~:,.,-;,., ..,.,:..!!._•'··,., :tai,:~ra,·ira' ·,.,~~~.,·;~•' "ta' ;,.,·t,.,·;,.,·;,.,,.. ,.,·.·,., ~'•" 
when their wives gdve birth to daughters, she added. 
This distress causes parents still treat sons and daughters differently, Hale said. Boys are given more mechanical toys as well as educational and com­petitive games, while girls are given toys that are more suited to their gender role, according to Hale. 
Boys also tend to play more sports and team games, she added. Hale said boys are taught to settle arguments in competitive ways, without ruining their self-esteem but girls have problems because they are afraid of hurting people's feelings. 
Women can be divided into two groups, Hale said. The first is the group of women who have a fairly low sense of identity and self-esteem. These women tend to stay in relationships that are unhealthy for them. The second group are fairly confident and have a high level of self-esteem, but have diffi­culty making a commitment and staying in a relationship for any length of time, she said. 

Professor discovers perfect love potion 
After 23 years of research, Dr. Rufus 
T. Valentine, noted romanceologist, has discovered the perfect love potion. 
Said Dr. Valentine, "The FTD® Sweet­heartTN Bouquet is a perfect combination of flowers and a heart­shaped potpourri in a ceramic powder jar. Lab studies have shown it to have a powerful, romantic effect on both sender and recipient. 
"However;· Dr. Valen­tine warns, "the effect seems to peak around February 14. And you must make sure to go to an FTD Florist Otherwise;· he added, "you may find yourself spending Valentine's Day alone in a most unromantic place-the library:· 

Second Marine force sails into the Mediterranean 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A second amphibious force of Marines continued to sail eastward in. the Mediterranean toward a flotilla of U.S. warships sta­tioned off the coast of Lebanon on Wednesday as the White House sought to dampen speculation that a military strike was in the of­fing. 
Pentagon officials, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said 1,900 Marines aboard five ships that left Spain on Tuesday would link up with U.S. forces already in the area by Friday. 
The sources also disclosed the Navy force already on station is slightly larger than previously thought ­including 21 warships, three Marine amphibious ships and four ammunition and oiler support vessels -and that several smaller war­ships had moved to within 50 to 100 miles of the Lebanese coast. 
The sources said the main aircraft carrier battle groups were maintaining a standard patrol farther out to sea. The carriers Nimitz and Kennedy were conduct­
ing routine air operations 
with their jet fighters 
remaining in the skies over 
the carriers and not ventur­
ing toward land. 
At the White House, 

presidential spokesman 
Marlin Fitzwater told 
reporters he could not rule 
out the possibility of a mili­
tary strike, but he went out 
of his way to discourage talk 
of such action. 
"I can't speculate on any 

future course of action," he 
said. "We always do have 
substantial forces in the 
area but I would urge (you) 
not to speculate along those 
lines." 
Over the past two weeks, 

the Pentagon has mar­shalled its battle force in the Mediterranean in response to rising tensions in the · Mideast and new hostage­takings in Lebanon, repeatedly describing the moves as only precaution­
ary. 
Fitzwater, when asked 

about rumors of military ac­
tion if any hostages were 
killed, replied, "I would 
urge a little downgrading of 
the spculation in that area. 
Our forces are there on what 
in many ways is normal ac­
tivities and operations. 

Reporter accused of spying to be expelled from Iran 
Associated Press 

NICOSIA, Cyprus-Iran said Wall Street Journal reporter Gerald F. Seib will be expelled Thursday, five days after he was arrested and accused of spying for Israel while visiting the country by government in­vitation. 
Its official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted an Infor­mation Ministry official Wed­nesday as saying the decision to free and expel the 30-year­old American came after "a judicial probe into his case ended." 
The official, who was not identified, said Seib was "per­manently banned from return­ing to Iran." 
Three other Westerners held by Iran on espionage charges remain in prison. American telecommunications engineer Jon Pattis, Canadian engineer Philip Engs and British journalist-businessman John Cooper were arrested last year. 
The IRNA gave no details of the Seib investigation or fin­dings, but he apparently was cleared of the allegations. The report did not say where the Thursday flight would take the journalist, who is based in Cairo. 
Premier Hussein Mussavi told Tehran radio Wednesday, without elaboration, "After being questioned, the issue has been clarified." 
Shortly before the IRNA report, he (Mussavi) said Seib would be expelled in two or three days. Asked in a Tehran radio interview why a foreign reporter was detained, Mus­savi said he (Seib) was "en­gaged in certain investigations and collecting intelligence at the front." 
Seib was among 57 foreign correspondents and photog­raphers invited to Iran for a tour of the border battle zone where Iranian forces have pushed into Iraq toward its southern capital, Basra. The Persian Gulf neighbors have been at war since September 1980. 
He had been in Iran for 10 days when seized Saturday out­side his Tehran hotel. The other journalists were allowed to leave. 


Candidates 
continued from page 1 

Breen-Phillips, and Farley halls. 
Sophomores Michael Car­rigan and David Bruner are vying for the senate spot in dis­trict three, which includes Dil­lon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and Howard halls. 
Incumbent district four senator, Stephen Viz, will run again, facing freshman Mi­chael Schadek and possibly sophomore Laura Janke, who has not decided whether or not to run. The district includes Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla East and West Halls. 
Former and current Bookstore Basketball Commis­sioner Steve Wenc is the unop­posed candidate for the off­campus senate district. 
All candidates must have their petitions for office on file with the Election Committee by Febuary 9, when the Om­budsman group will release the list of official candidates. Cam­paigning will begin Feb. 11 at 12 p.m., according to Gamache. 
The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 4 
Liberace dies as his fans stand vigil 

Associated Press 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. ­Liberace, the unequaled king of glitter who dazzled audiences for four decades with romantic piano flourishes and outrageous flashy costumes, died Wed­nesday. He was 67. 
Denise Collier, his spokes­woman in New York, con­firmed the death Wednesday afternoon. 
Liberace had been gravely ill for weeks with what aides said was anemia, em­physema and heart disease. Spokesmen denied a pub­lished report that he had AIDS. 
On Monday, when word spread that death was im­minent, friends and rela­tives gathered at his home. Dozens of fans and reporters stood vigil outside. 
Liberace was one of the nation's most enduring en­tertainers, a master of piz­zazz long before the likes of Elton John. As a boy, he played in speakeasies at $35 a week. He later gave com­mand performances before royalty and commanded an income estimated at $5 mil­lion per year. 
The candelabra that adorned his pianos became a trademark; his stage savvy earned him the name "Mr. Showmanship." His name on a marquee -be it Radio City Music Hall, a sports arena in Hutchinson, Kan., or the entertainment palaces of the Las Vegas Strip -meant audiences would buy out standing room to see him drive on stage in a mirrored Rolls-Royce, pop out of a giant pink egg in a pink feathered cloak, or soar across the stage suspended from wires in a swirl of purple feathers. 
"I've never had my popularity dwindle away," he said in 1985. "There's al­ways been a market for my kind of music, my kind of en­tertainment." 
He was a man of gentle wit who lived quietly but reveled in consumption. He had 18 pianos, painted, mirrored and gilded, including instru­ments owned by Chopin and Gershwin; dozens of antique cars; a desk owned by the last Russian czar; a collec­tion of Napoleonic pieces; a rhinestone billed as the world's largest, as big around as a dinner plate; and a reproduction of the Sistine Chapel ceiling in his bedroom. Three warehouses held the overflow. 

Crew of next space shuttle begin practicing launchings 
Associated Press 

SPACE CENTER, Houston ­Three of the astronauts who will fly the first space shuttle mission since Challenger ex­ploded began training as a team Wednesday, practicing launches and landings in a simulator. 
Pilot Richard Covey and mis­sion specialists John Lounge and David Hilmers entered a computer-driven cockpit simulator at the Johnson Space Center for four hours of prac­ticing the intricate procedures required to launch and land the space shuttle. 
Mission commander Freder­ick "Rick" Hauck and mission specialist George Nelson were out of town Wednesday, but all five crew members are sched­uled to start joint training next week. 
They are scheduled to be launched from the Kennedy Space Center on the space shuttle Discovery on Feb. 18, 1988, although that date is ex­pected to be pushed back. It will be the first shuttle flight since Challenger exploded on Jan. 28, 1986, killing its seven crew members. The shuttle fleet is grounded until en­gineers correct flaws that caused the Challenger acci­dent. 
The mission is planned as a four-day flight, with the astronauts placing a satellite in orbit and operating a package of scientific instruments. Lan­ding is slated for Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
Training coordinator Frank 
Tha1ks to you... it works ... for 
ALL 

OFUS 


unltadwau 

Hughes said Wednesday's ex­ercise was routine. 
He said Covey sat in the pilot's seat of the simulator, with Hilmers in the command­er's couch on the left side of the cockpit. Lounge was behind Covey for support duties, similar to those of a flight en­gineer on an airliner. Only Covey was in the role he will assume on the actual mission. 
The simulator is an duplicate of the shuttle flight deck. Com­puters simulate signals from actual shuttle equipment and make the cockpit instruments respond as if in real flight. Television screens in place of the cockpit windows give views similar to what the crewmen would see during an actual mis­sion. 
Hughes said Wednesday's training was designed to keep the astronauts tuned up for training problems that will be specifically designed for their mission. 
"This will be just a routine training session," said Hughes. "We've got months before it really matters." 
The principle payload of the Discovery mission is a Track­ing and Data Relay Satellite, or TDRS, that NASA will use to relay signals from orbiting spacecraft. A twin of the TDRS was destroyed when Chal­
lenger blew up. 





Democrats 
continuedfrom page 1 
conceded the protest had also been considered. 
The Democratic resolution labels the nuclear test ''a se­vere setback" for arms control and said it would escalate the arms race. It also contends that "anything that gives the Soviet Union an excuse to resume test­ing and thereby modernize its weapons systems will ad­versely affect the security in­terests of the United States." 
The Reagan administration has argued that continued test­ing of weapons is vital for defense research and insuring the reliability of the nuclear stockpile. The Soviets have proposed a test ban, but the ad­ministration wants it phased in and only as part of an overall arms reduction package. 
The Democratic resolution calls on Reagan to postpone further tests and begin imme­diate negotiations with the So­viet Union "to achieve a reciprocal, simultaneous and verifiable ban on nuclear weap­ons tests." 
The resolution also calls on congressional committees to "take whatever action which may be necessary" to make sure no money is authorized or spent on tests of warheads out­side a designated test area or with a yield in excess of one kiloton. Since all long-range weapons are above one kiloton, the practical effect would be to end nuclear testing. 
The restrictions would not apply if the Soviet Union tests a weapon in excess of one kiloton outside a designated area or refuses to accept and implement reciprocal in­country monitoring. 
For thisValentine's Day, visit The Country Harvester 
and see what interesting gift ideas we have for your ] Valentine......such as: • ] 
Decorated heart-shaped baskets and 
M 

Decorated baskets filled with delicious v chocolate hearts. 



Hours: Mon.-Fri. : 77:3G-6:30 Sat.-Sun.: 72:00-5:00 
Located in the basement of LaFortune 
tf!jjf''·"'"""'-· 


ATTENTION BSN CLASS OF 1987. 
The Air Force has a special pro­gram for 1987 BSNs. If selected, you can enter active duty soon after graduation-without waiting for the results of your State Boards. To qualify, you must have an overall ·s· average. After commis­sioning, you'll attend afive-month internship at a major Air Force medical facility. It's an excellent way to prepare for the wide range of experiences you'll have serving your country as an Air Force nurse officer. For more informqtion, call 
TSgt Vaughn 
( 317 )269-6377 Collect 

The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 5 , \ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\ 
\ 
Surrogate mother threatened to kill herself and baby 
Associated Press The taped conversation you right now, I'd rather see abusing her 12-year-old to see that it was our baby,
played in a hushed court­me and her dead before you daughter. Stern called the not his baby and not just my 
HACKENSACK, N.J. -A room demonstrated the bit­get her." accusation an "empty baby, and that she needed distraught surrogate mother ter tug of war between Mrs. The 40-minute conversa­threat." me," Mrs. Whitehead said. faced with losing the baby Whitehead and Stern that tion was taped secretly by Stern, who didn't know she agreed to bear for has developed into the first Stern on July 15 when Mrs. Judge Harvey R. Sorkow where Mrs. Whitehead was $10,000 threatened to kill court test of surrogate Whitehead called from a is considering the validity of calling from when he made herself and the child rather parenting's legality. hideout in Florida, where the surrogate contract and the July 15 tape, said Wed­than give the child up, ac­"Bill, it's my flesh and she fled with the child after whether custody of the 10-nesday, "I had visions of her cording to a tape played in blood, just like yours," Mrs. disobeying a court order ob­moJJth-old baby should go to being in some rooming court Wednesday. Whitehead said on the tape, tained by the Sterns. She Stern, a 41-year-old bioc­house with the baby and The cries of the infant made while she was a fugi­was on the run for nearly hemist, and his wife or to taking pills or something. I 
known to the court as Baby tive in Florida. "It's mine three months before aut­Mrs. Whitehead, 29, a was frightened." M were in the background too, and I would've given her horities found her and housewife, and her husband. as Mary Beth Whitehead· up. I can't do it." returned the baby to the Out of court Wednesday, The tape was introduced pleaded last July for forgive­She mentioned harming Sterns. Mrs. Whitehead said she into evidence by the Sterns' ness for changing her mind herself or the child at least A tape of a 10-minute July was not serious about the attorneys, who have been about the contract under three times, in one exchange 16 conversation also was threats made in the tape July trying to demonstrate that 
which she agreed to be ar­saying, "I gave her life, I played in court in which 15. the Whiteheads do not have tificially inseminated with can take her life away." She Mrs. Whitehead falsely ac­"I was just saying those the emotional or financial William Stern's sperm. also said to Stern, "I'll tell cuses Stern of sexually things because I wanted him stability to raise the child. 

Offices 
continuedfrom page 1 
In regard to the upcoming election she said, "We're so happy to see that there are 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
"~owellg {;o~ aQQ occogtong.'~ 
Comein and Browse 
3l7lincolnway 23l~3354 
three tickets and that the inter­est is there." 
Hetterich, current junior class president, said a major basis for her ticket's campaign will be change. Hashagen added, "We'd like to 'shake it up' a little bit." 
Speaking of the experience 

• ; ,, , ~~J' I 
g ~-~ 
~ INVITES YOU! I1"TWO FOR ONE NIGHTS= ~ 
members of the ticket have in student government, Has­hagen, current Saint Mary's representative to HPC, said, "We have diversity in where we come from in student gov­
ernment." 
Said Hetterich: "We've seen the students' needs and wants in these different areas, and in order to bring the Saint Mary's community together, we know what's going to work with the students, whether they're viewing it as a class, ... a hall or in relation to Notre Dame. 
"So there are certain things that we know we can rule out and certain things that we know are going to work be­cause we've seen all these dif­ferent areas," Hetterich said. 
"We also want to enhance our relationship with Notre Dame," she said. " We can't ignore the fact that we're the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame com­munity. We're a separate en­tity and we don't have to prove that by always planning things on our own without Notre Dame. 
In regard to the upcoming election Hashagen said, "We're going into it with a good attitude. We want to have a good time . . . maybe lighten things up a little bit." 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Special•• 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10o/o discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 



Doctors discover new drug to help cancer victims' fight 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -In a new approach to fighting cancer, doctors say they have used light to activate a powerful drug in the bloodstream and apparently vaccinate cancer victims against their own disease. 
The technique has produced remarkable remissions in some people with a relentlessly fatal fo~of blood cancer who had not rel>ponded to ordinary treatment. 
The therapy appears to mar­shal the body's own immune defenses to zero in on cancer and destroy it. It seems to do this without causing nausea, hair loss or any of the other common side effects of chemot­herapy or radiation. 
"It's a very early stage in the development of something very exciting," said Dr. Rich­ard Edelson, who created the treatment. "I don't want to overestimate where we are, but with a single disease we've got some strong concrete data." 
He says his approach may become the standard treat­ment for cutaneous T-celllym­phoma, a disease that probably strikes more than 10,000 Americans. It may also pro­vide a new technique for at­tacking other forms of blood cancer as well as disorders ranging from arthritis to organ transplant rejection. 
The therapy combines two rapidly emerging approaches for managing cancer and other diseases: manipulating the body's immune system and switching on medicines with light. 
"For the first time, a drug that has no activity by itself has been activated by light in the blood of patients as their blood was being routed outside the body," said Edelson, who is chief of dermatology at Yale Medical School. 
A report on the work, con­ducted at five institutions in the United States and Europe, was published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. 
"It's very clever," said Dr. Faye Austin, an immunologist at the National Cancer In­stitute. "There is definitely cause for optimism." 
Doctors have tested the therapy so far on 37 people with advanced cases of cutaneous T­cell lymphoma. This is a can­cer of a particular variety of white blood cells called helper T cells. These cancerous cells invade the skin, and the first symptom is often a rash, which may eventually cover the body and attack other organs. 

~ THURSDAYS, FRIDAYS & SUNDAYS ~ 
r• 6prn -11prn ~ 
~ *MIDNIGHT M~DNESS: I 
~ ~ 
l.. WARNING•••DON'T GET CAUGHT I= WITH YOUR f"AJAMAS ONI ~ 
r• SATURDAYS • MIDNIOHT to 4AM a1 
~ Ski World Invites you to experience the atmosphere ~ ~ of "Moonlight" Skiing. ~ 
~ YOU'VE OOT TO SKI IT TO BELIEVE IT ~ 
~ SKI WORLD 14547 N. MAIN STREET ~ r• BUCHANAN, MICHIGAN 49107 a1 
~ (616) 695-3847 I 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 
Pick up your free recipe card for the February  
Drink of the Month--THE BAHAMA MAMA!  
Busch half-barrel keg......  $25.99  
6 Pack of Corona Extra......  $3.89  
(while supplies last)  
Case  of  Miller  Genuine  

Draft (bottles)........... $8.99 Blatz Squatz ( 12 Pack)...... $3.49 
CORKTOWNE 
LIOUORS, INC. 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
277-6805
State Road 23. 1'• mtle west ot Martm's Supermarket 


The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 6 
Golf club-wielding youths blamed for 15 assaults; police form 70-member task force 

Associated Press 

DENVER -Police formed a 70-member task force Wednes­day to hunt a brazen gang of golf club-wielding youths blamed for at least 15 recent assaults, including the beating death of a woman bringing groceries home. 
As many as six men have been involved in the attacks near the state Capitol, and rob­bery appears to have been the motive in each assault, police said. 
The assailants, who struck over the past 11 days, carried golf clubs in at least six attacks and knives at least once, and in all cases intimidated their victims, said Detective John Wyckoff. 
The woman who died in the most recent attack was fatally beaten as she pushed a cart of groceries home about 10 p.m. Tuesday, authorities said. 
The identity of the woman, described as being in her 40s, has been difficult to track down because her purse was stolen, said Sgt. George Masciotro. 
Police said a blunt object was used in the assault, but they have not specified it was a golf club. However, they are inves­tigating the death as connected to the other attacks in the high density neighborhood where transients live alongside 

Authorities question high school students after discovery of satanic bible in locker 
Associated Press 

CORYDON, Ind. -Aut­horities in Harrison County are questioning high school stu­dents about their involvement in Satanism following the dis­covery of satanic materials at Corydon High School. 
Earl Saulman, principal at the school, said he checked some student lockers and found a satanic bible and three drawings featuring satanic creatures. 
Saulman and police believe about six students are involved in activities related to devil worship. Although some said they had satanic bibles, none admitting holding meetings or black masses, Sheriff Ed Davis said Tuesday. 
Davis said his department is investigating at least 25 reports of anonymous death threats, in­cluding one to his own wife, Lisa Davis. She received a call Friday from a male who said she would be sacrificed at a black mass. 
Saulman also received a call while he was checking the lock­ers. A male voice told him that "it would be too bad" if he went through student lockers. 
Saulman said one student who disrupted classes and in­timidated students was ex­pelled on Monday. The 16-year­old boy had information on Satanism, he said. 
In the last few weeks, stu­dents have streamed to coun­selors for reassurance, SaW­man said. There also have been reports of mutilated animal's, overturned headstones and satanic symbols painted on a house. 
Davis said he has found no evidence of the animal mutila­tions, but a farmer told state police his bull was killed and had its testicles and anus cut out in December. 
The farmer, who did not want to be identified because he feared for the safety of his fam­ily and livestock, told The Louisville Courier-Journal that whoever killed the bull drained its blood. No blood was found on the ground or in the carcass, he said. 
Cartoon cat to make debut with orchestra 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind.-Garfield, the 
cantankerous cartoon cat, will 
leap from the comic pages Sun­
day orito the stage as he makes 
his concert debut with the 
Muncie Symphony Orchestra. 

"Cats as a whole are very musical animals," said Gar­field's creator, Jim Davis. "I've always felt that they moved to a rhythm. They live almost in a cadence. So music is a very natural thing for them." 
Davis, who produces his Gar­field and U.S. Acres cartoon strips from his Muncie-area home, said the concert in Emens Auditorium was scored by Ed Bogas, composer of the music on the Garfield televi­sion specials. 
The program will open with "The Garfield Overture," or Rondo a la Tuna, and will in­clude Strauss' "Radetszky March" and !-!andel's "Water 
Music," illustrated with Gar­"Yeoman of the Guard," Offen­field visuals. bach's "Can-Can" and Bernstein's "West Side Story" 
"A Garfield Travelogue" excerpts, conducted by the will feature Rossini's "Thiev­symphony's music director ing Magpie," Sullivan's Leonard Atherton. 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the follow­ing position: 
1987-88 
Editor-in-Chief 
Questions should be directed to Joe Murphy. Applications are due by by February 12 at 5:00 
p.m. 

The~Observer 
3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
. 239·5303 
longtime residents, said Mas­golf club at the man while an­ciotro. other suspect grabbed the wo­
"We're going on the assump­man's wallet. tion that it is connected," he In another attack, two wo­said. "It fits the pattern." men were struck with fists and 
The attacks all have oc­robbed as they were getting curred in public places. A into a car. And the assailants couple in their early 20s was used golf clubs to beat a 24­attacked by five young men, year-old man and his dog with one assailant swinging a before robbing him. 
The most successful 









college
graduates 

have 
aunifonn 

appear­
ance. 
Dress for success. 
Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and you could graduate with the privilege of wearing the proud gold bars of a second lieutenant as well as a cap and gown. 
Army ROTC is the college elective that gives you an opportunity to learn, and practice, management skills. Experience leadership styles and motivational techniques. And gain the self­confidence that can spell success in any career, civilian or military. 
Start that career with the advantages only Army ROTC can give you. Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
Interested? call Captain Domingo 239-6264 
en 
~ 
0 ~ 
u 
l) 
z 
z 
~ 
~ 


----~ ------~-----~--­
The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987 -page 7 

Fruits & Vegetables 
;fJ!1 :~:n~~~s oz ...........49e Pineapple, laney quality, sliced, 59"' 
chunk, crushed.;Uice pack, 20 oz. . "~­California Peaches 59"'
light syrup, Irregular cuts, 29 oz. . "1-­
~~~d~·r·i~ -~~~~~~~-........39e Pears 69"'
light syrup, Irregular cuts. 29 oz "~­Asparagus 79"'
grade A fancy. cut, 14 5 oz . . . . . . "~­Mushrooms 39"' 
stems and p1eces. 4oz . . . . . . . . "1-­~h~~i ~-~~~~ .................29e ~~~~~.:~.~a~~-es_ ..........39e ~t~:'~~-:~~~~~~~-.........49e ~'::d.-~~~-~~~~~-~~-......... 29e ~~~~~~a~c~~t~soz ...........29e ~~!~~~~ncy. 1soz............J9e ~~::!a~~a~~-ss1~z ............2Se 
Soup 
~h~~~e~ 0 ~-~~~~~-~~~~-0 25e
0 0 0 
~~~~~1~~ :u~~-r-~~-~ 25e
0 0 0 00 0 
~h~!~ ~~~~~~-~~-~oooooooooo·59e 

These are not weekly specials. These are everyday ALDI® low prices. 
3207 Llnc:olnway West
929N.Eddy 
South Bend, IN
South Bend, IN 
Mon•Th111'8: 9aDI-7pDI
Mon-Th1US: 10aDI•7pDI 
Friday: 9aDI-8pDI
Friday: 9aDI-8pDI 
Saturday: 9aDI·6pD1
Saturday: 9aDI·6pDI 
Closed Sunday
Closed Sunday 
Baktng Supplies 

f;~;c~~~~~~ -~~~~~-~~~~. 79e 
1

~e~,et~~~-~ .~. ~ •••.•••••.•••••79e ~:~u-~ ........................49e ;~~~ ~~'-'~~-~~~............2se 
Cake Mix, 49"'
devils food, white, yellow, t8.5 oz. "1-­~a~ca.~~-~~~ ............... 69e ~ao~ca_~~-~-~~~-~-........... 69e 
Condiments and Spreads 
;:!!~~ancy. 32 oz .......... 69e Peanut Butter, creamy or SJI9 
chunky, grade A fancy, 18 oz. ...... . 
;;r::e. ~-~~~-~ .................79e 
Strawberry Preserves, 99"' 
grade A fancy, 18 oz. . .. .. .. . .. . "~­Fresh Kosher Spears, 79"' 
grade A fancy, 24 oz. .. .. . .. . . .. "1-­~fo~g~~~~~ -~~-~~~ ...........79e 
Cookies and Snacks 

Tasti Buddy All Purpose 99e 
Crackers, 16 oz. 
00 00 00 00 00 .. 

~s!~!:.~~:0~.0~~~~~·........99e Potato Chips, reg., ripple, 880 49"' 
or sour cream & onion, 'h lb. bag .. . "1­~::s~~-~-~-i~-~~-~oooooo•••oooo• SJ.f9 
Juices and Dnnks 
~~s~":ef.:~:: ~r:zn~~ ~~~~~ .99e 
100% Pure Grapefruit 99"' 
Juice, unsweetened, 46 oz. . . . "1-­
~~~c~:~--~~~~~. ~-~~-~~-.....99e 
soda Pop ISe
assorted flavors, 12 oz. cans ..... . 

Prepared Foods 

Chunk Light Tuna 
oil or water pack 
6.5 oz. 
•

~wl;2~49e 
Bread and Pastry 

Com King or Agar Canned 
Ham 
I
S799 · ~;{.. 
was$89g 
Household Items 

Indian River 
iRe~ ,.Grapefruit large size 
~­


-.'J ,, 

~1;2! ~~a~ 
Dairy and Lunch Meat 

Frozen Foods 
~~~~~n~~o~~~~:~~au~~~~-~~ ...89e Frozen 100% Pure Orange 69"' 
Juice, grade A fancy, 12 oz. . . . "'­
~8o~q~~t. ~~~-~~-~~-~~-~~~ .... S289 Sea Net Crunchy Fish S249 
Sticks, 40 pk., 32 oz. 
00 00 00 00 00 
M~~~s~~B-~~~~-~~-~~~~r-~ .....SJ 69 
Price Reduction! 
Jennie·O Prebasled Whole £R~ Turkeys, 10·121bs , was 99¢ lb. U7tb. 
Produce 
Fresh California 

..119e 
Lettuce, large head •• 't ea. 

©1987 ALDIInc. We welcome cash and food stamps. No checks please. 

Tbe Stoek­
--~-~-~~ -~----~­
~-----------------~--------~-----~-----------~--­



"ieVVE_O_i_n__t_____________T-hursd~ay,F-ebru~ary5~,19s7~-pa~ges 
Great traditions fall 
to greedy capitalists 
Did you watch the Superbowl? Stupid fingers in a vain rescue attempt? How question, of course you did. Every true easy it was to cheat? And best of all, American watches this monumental the sound effects? Each ship went down game. Only Godless Communists don't with its own unique cry of agony in­watch Superbowls. Being from Min­vented by you and you alone. And nesota, home of the only true football today? Kids today suffer with an team, the Vikings, I had no real interest electronic version of the game. They in the outcome of the contest. Nonethe­know not the joy of severing your fin­less, I enjoyed, all the pomp and cir­gertips, of going "ka-boom" at the top cumstance. Big John Madden, the of your lungs. Now a computer of all ridiculous half time extravaganza, the things tells them when a ship is sunk ­half-hour coin flip ... the Slice blimp. The and the price tag must be outrageous. what? 
And let's not forget Legos. Who can for­get the agony of laboring for six hours Matthew Slaughter to create that fire station, only to dis­cover you're one window short. Legosand another thing were the perfect toy: inexpensive, durable, and creative. That's exactly 
Yes, you read it correctly. In case why marketing men eliminated them. you didn't notice, there was no I know I for one still have a stash of Goodyear blimp providing those spec­them in my basement which I'm saving tacular aerial shots this year. Slice pop, for my kids. in a repulsive display of capitalism at Let's take a look at clothes. its most base, outbid Goodyear for the Children's clothes were synonymous rights to the blimp. An outrage? You with one word: Gar animals. All you bet. You just don't get rid of the had to do was match the animal on the Goodyear blimp; it's an institution as skirt with the same animal on the pants American as cheating on your taxes. I and voila, an outfit. Pick up a pair of couldn't believe CBS would cast aside tigers, lions, giraffes, and hip­something as inbred in American soci­popotamuses and you were set for life. ety as the Goodyear blimp for the profit Kids of 1987, however, parade around motive. I was appalled, nay, offended. in Polos and lzods. A kid's Polo costs This got me thinking -is there a trend $30, and then he outgrows it in six forming? Are we in America today cas­months. An entire Garanimals ward­ting aside our great traditions for robe didn't cost more than $30. Again, money? Unfortunately, the answer is capitalism is behind this outrage. yes. Finally, not even the American pas­
Take cartoons for example. Remem­time has escaped. Baseball cards used ber the Bugs Bunny-Road Runner to be made by one company and one show? Vintage cartoons. Stupid jokes company alone: Topps. Topps equalled and lots of violence -what more could baseball cards. Ten cards and a terrible a kid want? And you didn't just get Bugs stick of gum for $.25. What kid can for­and the Road Runner, mind you, you get the torment of getting down to his got a veritable plethora of cartoons' last six cards necessary for a complete finest actors: Porky Pig, Daffy Duck, set. He'd sell his little sister to get Foghorn Leghorn, the Tasmanian money for more packs, only to find Devil.... And what are kids watching more doubles. I know I never com­today? Nothing more than commer­pleted a set in four painful years. Today cials. Let's take a look at the titles: the baseball card industry is anarchy. Care Bears Family, the Smurfs, the At least three companies now produce 
G.I. Joe Show. These shows are nothing their own sets of cards, all in the name more than hour-long commercials of a hearty economic competition. What which entice kids into haranguing their will the poor kids of America do? No parents for new toys. Remember the allowance could possibly provide one where Bugs played the Barber of enough money to complete three differ­Seville? These shows were cultural to ent sets. boot. Now cartoons are simply another So what am I trying to say? Not a advertising vehicle. lot, to tell you the truth. It's just that 
How about Kool-Aid? Remember we are witnessing the disappearance of when mom would whip up a batch for some of America's institutions, all in you and your pals? A quart of water, a the name of higher profits. What's scoop of red coloring, and about two worse, this trend is mainly affecting pounds of sugar. One glass and you had this country's greatest asset: its enough energy to climb any tree. But children. Our kids today, living in a today, economists and nutritionists world devoid of Bugs, Legos, have attacked this sacred drink. Now Garanimals, and the like, are missing it's made with Nutrasweet, is packaged a lot. Scary, isn't it? Maybe if the in cardboard boxes instead of the huge Goodyear blimp made its glorious canister, and makes more money for return things would look better. The General Foods. But it tastes disgusting. Slice blimp? Just the proverbial tip of 
Toys and games have not avoided this the iceberg, ladies and gentlemen. tragedy either. who can forget Battles­hip: blue versus red, us versus them. Matthew S~aughter is currently en­Remember how the little pegs would rolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies fall into the crack and you'd losl. your and is a regu~ar Viewpiont co~umnist. 
Doonesbury 

fJTH£RIA/!5E, Mlf.SRE'S IT60NNA 570P? IFW.SPAYI4.5MIUION7lJ 
SAVE~' NE.XT7HIN6 Y(}{) 
KNOW, tue'U. Be COfJGHING UP 
15MilliON FOr< fMX)(1YAIJ£N, OR 
..,U,II'/ILIJUIV FOR JCRKY6ARDA. 
/-4//J':'=<b 
~----------­
j P.O.Box Q
~.----____! 
Photography captures the defendant be a public official or a homeless urban dweller, or the right to true feeling of game protect oneself from self -incrimination. One may guess that Poindexter and Dear Editor: North may be hiding something, but 
Obviously Notre Dame's exciting nothing is proven. come-from-behind victory over North Second, people should not compareCarolina has prompted many reactions this to Watergate, because there is no from all who witnessed "the moment". comparison. Watergate was the Although I am in full agreement with brainchild of a paranoid maniac, those who found the crowd's hysteria Nixon, who knew he was not popular often uncharacteristic of civil adults, with his people and who set out to I'll let Chris Bowler's heart-felt inside destroy the reputations of his opponents column in The Observer (Monday Fer­to ensure re-election in 1972. Nixon won burary 2) speak for my disappointment in a landslide not because he was with select Notre Dame fans. popular, but because the country, dis­
I'm writing for another purpose. illusioned' with the activism of the There is much to savor from the deter­sixties, was experiencing a backlash mination and courage shown by the against liberalism and because the players and coaches on the floor last Democratic Party nominated the most 
Sunday. Nothing captured "the mo­liberal candidate they had. Nixon was ment" better than the photos of Greg just the lesser of the two poisons in the Kohs and Robert Jones on pages eight country's eyes. This current situation and nine of Monday's Observer (and is a constitutional question that has this comes from a subscriber to most raged from the Monroe Doctrine to this of the major sports publications in day, not a situation of a paranoidAmerica). It would be easier to pick maniac seeking to destroy his internal out one or two pictures as examples of opponents, the issues being the limits good photography, but they are all su­of presidential power in foreign affairs perb. David Rivers' look of determina­and the right of secrecy as an executive tion as he leans in on Ranzino Smith; privilege. People should look at history Joe Wolf looking aimlessly at Gary and ask questions: Voce's palm as he struggles to find the basket; and J.R. Reid's hopeless -How would the nation have reacted desperation as Voce clutches another if, having lost World War Two, they dis­rebound are but three examples from covered that their beloved FDR was this excellent piece of photo journalism. directing American destroyers and My hat is off to Kohs and Jones. Thanks planes to aid the British in the search for preserving "the moment". for U-Boats in the summer and fall of 
early 1941, in direct violation of Con­
JeffRice 
Assistant Director gressional and popular wishes? 
Career and Placement Services -What would they say about their beloved JFK okaying the manipulation of power groups in South Vietnam Watergate comparisons during the time of the Diem Coup in 1963, an incident that involvedcould do much damage Americans deeper in a conflict from 
which they still have not recovered? Dear Editor: -Of course, 22 years ago, Congress 
Around this campus, many students passed the Tonkin Gulf Resolution with and faculty members are taking great two dissensions, even though the docu­joy in the recent troubles surrounding ment was drafted several months the Reagan administration involving before the incidents on which it is based arms sales to Iran and aid to the con­took place. tras. This supposed enemy of the poor, Third, before people rejoice in the po­liberals, and minorities has finally met tential fall of Reagan in an "All the his match. They compare it to the President's Men, Part Two" scenario, Watergate days of Richard Nixon, who, and join in the destruction of people and after a landslide victory in 1972, fell reputations by the press, they should from power less than two years later. look at how the country suffered with Before jumping on the media band­Watergate. Americans experienced a wagon that attempts to weaken presi­severe disillusionment about the future dents and destroy reputations of pos­of their nation. They suffered a loss of 
sibly innocent people, would-be Reagan pride in themselves as Americans and haters should consider some things. experienced despair in their system of 
First, people should consider the government, a system that is probablypoint men in this operation, Oliver the best and fairest in the world and North and Admiral John Poindexter. 
that is one of the oldest surviving sys­They may be guilty of unlawful acts. 
tems in the world. 

They may not be. That remains to be As the lawmakers of ancient Rome discovered. What is true is that there once said, "Let justice be done, though are rights guaranteed in the Constitu­the heavens fall." As we proceed on a tion that some members of the press road to a potential American crisis, let conveniently ignore;' rights such as the us reflect and make sure that justice is presumption of innocence until proven being done, not vengeance.
guilty in a speedy and public trial con­
Michael J. Barron, Jr.
sisting of a jury of one's peers, whether 
Off-campus 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
GOD &XACTL.Y.' 
ONl-Y Ht'l? HAVE KNOWS. U5 (JI.SR
I ABARR&L! 
"God does not pay weekly, but he 
.......-~~ pays at the end." 
Dutch Proverb 

----------------------------------~----~--------­

Brought to you by Career and Placement Services THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1es1 


Career &Placement Services: More Than A Placement Bureau 
H 
ave your parents said to you, "You should see the placement office to get a job?" Or maybe a close friend has confided to you, "The place­ment office is great. They got me a job in Chicago." The truth of the matter Is the office of Career and Placement Services does not "get" graduates jobs. Agreed, the term placement can be mislead­Ing because It implies the arrang­ing of a job for students. It en­courages a passive approach to job hunting. Yet, despite the name, the students who are aware of the numerous opportu­nities available to them through Career and Placement have come to see this service as more than a placement bureau. 
Tim Smith, a senior pre­professional studies major from Grand Rapids, Mich., states, ''I've enjoyed my coursework in the sciences, but I wasn't viewing medical school as my only op­tion. I met with a professional staff member In Career and Placement to discuss my career options. Since that time almost six months ago I've had four on­campus interviews and hope to secure a position In pharmaceuti­cal sales before I graduate in May." Tim's situation is an exam­ple of one primary service avail­able to students through Career and Placement Services -individ­ual counseling relating to self­assessment, decision-making, interviewing, resumes, cover let­ters, and general career search strategies. 

Career and Placement Ser­vices is more than counseling and on-campus interviews, however. Monika Schlaak, a sophomore from Huron, Ohio, just recently visited the Career and Placement Services office. "I was confused about my decision to major In natural sciences. I made an appointment to use the DISCOVER program and I found out I'm also interested in the so­cial sciences. I'm still not ab­solutely sure, but through DIS­
'The individual attention given to students (is) where Career & Placement shines.' 
COVER I have another option to consider." DISCOVER, a computer-assisted career infor­mation and guidance system is 
one of Career and Placement's 
most innovative services. It al­
lows the user to conduct a self­inventory as well as an in-depth exploration of occupations which are of interest. Monika is ap­proaching her career planning realistically, using self­assessment and independent re­search as preliminary steps to deciding on a career. 
Jeff Rice, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, joined the staff just seven months ago. "My first impression of the services was how easy they were 
for students to use. If a student simply wants to research a par­ticular career, they can spend hours of uninterrupted time in the career library or view one of many videotapes on careers." The career resources library con­tains a wealth of information for students in different stages of their career development. Refer­ence guides and books on life planning, self-assessment, career decision-making, resume writing, and interviewing skills are con­tained in the library. Pamphlets on specific careers and literature from over 500 employers are also available. 
In addition to the library, stu­dents are encouraged to attend workshops and presentations held throughout the year on such topics as career decision-making, resume writing, interviewing, op­portunities in specific majors, mail campaigns, and making a job decision. The office also arranges for over ninety employer recep­tions each year. These activities are scheduled for students to meet employer representatives on an informal basis. 
Perhaps it's in the individual attention given to students where Career and Placement shines. Whether It's meeting with under­classmen to discuss personal career goals or assisting seniors with interview preparation through videotaped mock interviews, the office's mission is to meet Individ­ual concerns. Kitty Arnold, direc­tor of Career and Placement Ser­vices, affirms, "Our office has established many goals, yet none is more important than helping the individual student define clearly and specifically their 
career goals. Students often encounter questions or problems during their career planning which can best be solved by con­sulting an experienced career counselor. Our professional coun­selors look forward to meeting students on an individual basis to discuss their unique career con­cerns." 
The staff of Career and Place­ment Services believes career decisions are best made within a 
supportive environment where a variety of options are considered. Such an environment Is waiting lor those who understand Career and Placement Services to be more than a placement bureau. 
·~·
.... .....
~ 

(1) Arthur Andersen~ ·~· ,.
recruiter Jim Dublin .,,· (left) Interviews senior .....,.. Marchea Malone on campus. ,.. 
(2) Arthur Andersen staff accountant " Kathy Balane (left), Accountancy -~-.·.·...
. , . '86, looks over the Interview schedule with senior Maureen O'Rourke. (3) Ann Mauro (right), Marketing '88, presently employed by Procter and gamble, meets students at a reception. (4) DISCOVER, a computer-assisted career guidance system, Is available to all students by appointment through the Career and Placement Services office. 
Hang In There Seniors! 
Yes, graduation Is approaching and on-campus Interviews are num­bered, but you're still in the driver's seat. 
HAVE YOU•.• . . . updated your resume? •••reaffirmed your Interest with company contacts? 
•..narrowed your search to one or two fields or Industries? •••focused on a specific geographic area? •••expanded your network? (Spread the word to family, friends, former employers, faculty, ate. that you're still looking) .•.personalized every contact? •••sat dally goals? ..•remained confidant? •••VISITED THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT OFFICE? 
• 

Careers Unlimited -FEBRUA:V~~~a~ 

The Profile Form-What Is It? 

M 
cDonneii-Douglas; Foote, Cone and Bel­
ding; Westinghouse Electric; Price Waterhouse; Gen­eral Mills; Salomon Brothers ­this is just a sampling of the more than 150 corporations which ordered profiles of incom­ing seniors from the Career and Placement Services office last summer. 
What is the student profile? All seniors who take on-campus in­terviews must complete this two­sided form, containing much of the same information as on a resume. "We use a standardized form," explains Paul Reynolds, associate director of Career and 
'Including your profile in the booklet for students in your major will give you a competitive advantage.' 
Placement Services, "so that employers can locate key infor­mation about a student quickly and easily." 
To gain exposure with a variety of firms prior to interviewing in their senior year, juniors are en­couraged to hand in their profile that career. 

Imagination is also helpful. John Munschauer, in his book "Jobs for English Majors and Other Smart People," tells about the student who was a sailing enthusiast. He sought a career related to his English degree and
Apr 

interest in boats. By careful re­
Mar
Feb 

search and lots of talking he
Jan 

ended up working for a yachting 
-

Government Career Day magazine. He's happy as a clam. 
Videotaped Mock Inter· Interviewing workshops 

What other careers have liberal 
-
views . 

arts majors chosen in the past?
Sign-Up Orientations summer Intern Workshop 

Lynne V. Cheney, chairperson of the National Endowment for the 
Employer Receptions 

Humanities, conducted a survey On-Campus lntervie":'s I 
of successful Americans. While
Counseling By appomtmen 
several prominent examples are 
not full proof of the value of a 
liberal arts major, the results are before leaving campus for the summer months. Reynolds con­tinues, "In a volatile job market, our students should use every means possible to have their credentials reviewed by different organizations. Including your profile in the booklet for students in your major will give you a competitive advantage over other students. 
Candy Dellinger, director of ex­ecutive recruitment and place­ment at May Department Stores Company in St. Louis, asserts, "We review the profiles contained in the booklets to identify those students who might be interested in pursuing a career in retail management. We then encour­age these students to attend our corporate presentation and to consider scheduling an interview when we are on campus." 
Marynell O'Connell, director of recruiting at Peterson and Com­pany in Chicago, adds, "Students who fill out the profile in the latter part of their junior year frequently are those who are motivated, focused in their career goals, and well-organized -traits that we look for in a candidate." 
Before filling out the profile, students should first assess themselves and the industries they will be targeting in their job search. Only then will pertinent information be included on the form. 
Pat Collins, a May 1986 graduate of Notre Dame pres­in a wide range of careers. Such a discussion will supplement writ­ten information." By careful ques­tioning you can learn the many aspects of a particular career, what the chances are for ad­vancement, what additional courses or outside activities might be of use in order to enter ently in the analyst program of The First Boston Corporation in New York, feels that "gathering the information to include on my profile prior to leaving campus at the end of my junior year re­quired me to do some thinking about myself and to establish a plan for conducting my job search. The biggest mistake is to wait until your senior year." 


To learn how to market them­selves on the profile, juniors should attend one of the workshops sponsored by Career and Placement Services shortly after spring break. Doing so could be a major step contribu­ting to a successful job campaign in their senior year. 
Junior Profile Workshops in April 
April 8 7 p.m. (123 Nieuwland) April 9 7 p.m. (118 Nieuwland) April 13 7 p.m. (123 Nieuwland) April 14 7 p.m. (123 Nieuwland) 
Profile forms are available
in the Career and 
(123 Nieuwland) 
Placement Services Office. 
Can A Liberal Arts Degree Pay The Bills? 
C 
ontrary to the thoughts of many Arts and Letters students, and sometimes their parents, a liberal arts degree is marketable. What it re­quires is preparation, research and a good dose of imagination to identify possible careers. These three activities are espe­cially advised during the sopho­more and junior years. 
Research is crucial to discover­ing career options for the liberal arts major. It not only sheds light on the number of occupations available, it also helps focus on the kinds of skills various careers require. Beyond researching oc­cupational literature, Joan Mcin­tosh, career counselor at Notre Dame, advises "talk with people suggestive. Cheney found, for example, the communications world dominated by liberal arts majors. Thomas H. Wyman, chairman of CBS, majored in En­glish, as did Cathleen Black, pub­lisher of USA Today. Washington Post columnist William Raspberry studied his­tory; NBC News anchorman Tom Brokaw, political science. Cheney herself was an English major. 
'Research is crucial to discovering career options for the liberal arts major' 
Obviously, these individuals didn't land their present positions right out of college. Yet, ad­vancement didn't just happen without various levels of desire and intellectual curiosity, tradi­tional by-products of the liberal arts. Robert Key, Vice President Account Supervisor of Leo Bur­nett Company, notes, "What's crucial for advancement in adver­tising is not specialized training but the ability to think critically and judge wisely. At Burnett, we often find these qualities in liberal-arts majors." Conducting research on careers, learning what people do in a wide variety of jobs, and using one's imagination are essential in making a sound career decision. Mcintosh confirms, "Increase your career options by studying careers -the same way you have increased your mind's range by studying the liberal arts." 
--------------~-----------------------­
,--------­

Careers Unlimited THURSDAV,FEBRUAR~~~~~ .. 
S 
tudents used to think that techni­
cal sales was a career for the 

also-rans. Seniors with technical academic backgrounds lined up for inter­views for research and development and plant operations but shied away from sales opportunities. That is no longer the case as more graduates recognize the challenges and rewards of this type of career. 
Technical sales (sometimes referred to as Industrial or professional sales) is far different from the common stereotypes about sales. It involves dealing primarily with highly-educated, technically com­petent Individuals discussing product ca­pability. In fact, the role of the sales rep­resentative Is really two-fold: providing detailed Information about a complex product and then ensuring that all the necessary follow-up services are provided after the sale. 
According to Lary Leach of Texas In­struments, technical sales representatives for the major firms in his industry are expected to understand the business of their clients from beginning to end. "We used to deal with purchasing agents, sell­ing and supplying a product as a com­modity. Now our technical sales represen-


TECHNICAL SALES: A Well Kept Secret 
tatives work approximately 50 to 60 percent of the time with our clients' design engineers so that we provide products immediately responsive to their needs." 
Coordinating the service of the product after its sale is the other half of the equa­tion. This may include actual maintenance of a piece of equipment, arrangement for replacement of defective parts, responding to questions from the customer, oversee­ing billings, investigating delivery delays, or introducing new applications of the product. This entails frequent interaction with individuals within the representative's own firm. Therefore, developing good rapport with one's own fellow employees is vital to a sales representatives contin­ued success. 
According to Jeff Rice, assistant director of the Career and Placement Service office, recruiters state that a candidate for technical sales must be ambitious. Since sales work is fairly independent, success­ful individuals must be self-motivated enough to put in long days with little or no supervision. Rice adds, "Recruiters em­phasize that technical sales is not a forty­hour per week job. It frequently requires far more time so stamina and a high en­ergy level are necessary also." 

Brian Rafferty, regional personnel manager of Pfizer, Inc., adds that profes­sional and technical sales for a large, successful corporation offers entrepreneurial individuals the best of both worlds. "In effect, they have the indepen­dence to run their own small business as well as the security of a stable environ­ment with strong product support from the other corporate divisions." 
The downside of the job for some is its extreme competitiveness. Since competi­tion can be fierce, sales representatives in a very real sense bear the weight of their company's health on their shoulders. They 
must plan their activities very carefully, 

targeting the most likely prospective cus­
tomers for the bulk of their attention. 

The paperwork I~ another complaint of 
many sales representatives. However, It is 
far easier to maintain a positive relation­
ship with a current customer than to at­
tract another away from the competition. 
Therefore, there Is a real payoff for the 
person who is thorough. 

"The desire to make a healthy salary is one of the strongest attractions of techni­cal sales," says Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services. "Cor­porations expect to pay top dollar salaries for technically trained graduates, often 
provide them with a company car, and 
offer them commission incentives for ex­
cellent sales results." 

While not a career for everyone, techni­
cal sales is no longer the best kept secret 
it once was, concludes Arnold. "I recom­

mend that students who aren't interested 
in a career at the bench, the terminal or 

on the plant floor give serious considera­
tion to technical sales as a viable method 
of using their academic background in a 
dynamic profession." 

Hard Work &A Great Education Can Be Found On Wall Street 
A 
nalyst positions at investment banks ~re probably the jobs most sought after by today's top college graduates. While recent articles have portrayed investment banking careers as "hot" or glamorous, undergraduates should view analyst positions as very rewarding but grueling experiences. 
James F. Cleary -­Analyst, Corporate Finance 
E.F. Hutton and Company, Inc. 

Investment banks, most of which are based in New York, hire college graduates to work in corporate finance, public finance, or mergers and acquisi­tions for two years before they return to school to pursue their MBA degree. In return for attractive compensation, analysts can count on a great deal of hard work and frequent late nights and weekends at the office. 
Analysts supply senior investment bank­ers with statistical information that is used to advise corporations and municipalities on financing decisions. More specifically, they help to price initial public offerings, compare recent merger transactions with potential merger candidates, and analyze the credit-worthiness of debt-issuing cor­porations as well as prepare presentations to attract new business and help process ongoing transactions. 
The statistical work is valuable in pre­
'in return for attractive compensation, analysts can count on a great deal of hard work and frequent late nights and weekends at the office.' 

paring analysts for business school. Be­cause of the competitive admissions process, however, students should not view an analyst position as a ticket to the top MBA programs. 
The investment banks interviewing at Notre Dame are seeking candidates from a variety of educational backgrounds. Some prefer undergraduates with majors In business or similar quantitative disci­plines, while others prefer arts and letters majors who have taken a broad range of bilities. "Above all else," John Schaefer, senior vice-president of E. F. Hutton, stresses, "recruiters look for well-rounded applicants who have outstanding aca­demic credentials and who have actively participated in extracurriculars." 
In preparing for investment banking interviews, students should begin by reading material on specific firms as well as the industry itself. A bank's annual report or recruiting brochure will provide specific information, while articles in busi­ness periodicals can help with the indus­try. During the actual interviews, appli­cants should ask pointed questions. Schaefer adds, "With the competition for analyst positions fierce, students must appear keenly interested to be consid­ered." 
After an initial round of interviews on campus, selected candidates will be in­vited to New York for a more intensive interview whereupon an employment deci­sion will be made. If an investment bank is not interviewing in the Career and Placement Services office, a few phone calls and a well-written resume may help obtain an interview. 
In addition to analyst positions, other opportunities for undergraduates in invest­ment banking include sales and trading positions and those which allow top col­lege graduates to rotate throughout differ­ent departments. Whichever program a student decides to pursue, thoughtful preparation and a thorough dedication to one's professional life are the key ele­ments in obtaining and, ultimately, succeeding in that position. 
Did you know • • • 
1 ••• computer programmers will make the second greatest percentage gain In jobs over the next decade (71.7%)?-U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2 • • • the average annual pay for the U.S. workforce was $19,186 In 1985? • U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 3 •.• the Career and Placement Services office has a directory of American Com­panies operating In Foreign countries? 4 ••. economics and finance majors are the most sought after new college graduates? Recruitment Is up 65%. Bust· ness administration majors are second (up 33%), followed by engineering (up 18%), sales and marketing majors (up 14%) and computer majors (up 11%). • Northwestern Endicott Report. 5 • • • the three worst human fears are public speaking, heights, and Insects? Death Is sixth. -The Book of Lists. 
courses yet shown strong analytical capa-L-__._________....;._______. 

I 
t often surprises career seekers when they hear that employers are looking for attributes and qualities other than expertise in a particular area. In fact, they don't believe it. Engineers and accountants, for example, are surprised to learn they are more marketable if they can communicate ideas clearly to members of a team and write a good report. 
Liberal arts students are relieved to hear that many employers are looking for the very qualities they have. developed through their humanties courses and thought were of no use to anybody but themselves. 
What are these qualities? In a recent College Placement Council survey of recruiters from large corporations, recruiters were asked what qualities they looked for during an interview. The attri­bute most frequently mentioned was com· munlcatlon ability. 
How do you demonstrate this ability on a resume? If you have worked with the student government, helped in freshmen orientation or tutored other students you have demonstrated your ability to com­municate verbally. You couldn't do these jobs without communicating. 
If you were a reporter for The Observer or wrote a thesis or special report, you demonstrated writing ability. Mention these items on a resume or in the interview. Describe what you did, using active verbs. 
Here are the 16 qualities mentioned most often by recruiters: 
Procter and Gamble recruiter George Christensen (right) talks with students about career opportunities. 

What Are Employers Looking For? 
1. 
Communication ability 

2. 
Intelligence 

3. 
Self-confidence 

4. 
Accepts responsibility 

5. 
Initiative 

6. 
Leadership 

7. 
Energy 

8. 
Imagination 

9. 
Flexibility 

1
0. Interpersonal skills. 

11. 
Self-knowledge 

12. 
Ability to handle conflict 

13. 
Goal achievement 

14. 
Competitiveness 

15. 
Vocational skills 

16. 
Direction 



You do not have to say: I can com­municate, I'm intelligent, and have initia­tive, energy and leadership ability. You give examples of these qualities by saying what you have done. If you are out-going, belong to a variety of organizations and also work, you are automatically showing the employer you have both a high energ level and self-confidence. It you are an officer in an organization or a resident assistant you are proving you have lead­ership qualities and interpersonal skills. 
Before you write a resume or have an interview, analyze which of these qualities are most important in the career you want. Slowly and methodically, consider each job you've had, office held or specia tasks you've undertaken. Then ask your­self how you can demonstrate from these that you possess the qualities the em­ployer is looking for. 
-
-
-

. PAGE4
.. 


..... 
-
ass than 1 00 miles 
due west of South 
Bend lies a mecca for young professionals affec­tionately referred to by many as "my kind of town." Chicago has become an entry-level career stop for many Notre Dame graduates, partly due to its proximity and popularity, yet mostly due to the signifi­cant number of Chicago­based companies recruiting on campus. Domers are not the only young professionals who have packed their bags for the Windy City. Chicago has slightly more than 3 million people, with 391 ,471 men and 424,464 women between the ages of 25 and 44. Should you find your own career heading west after graduation, here are some tips. 
Finding a place to live will be your first priority. "Get a copy of 'The Reader'; it's a free listing of apartments," advises John Moran, an '86 accoun­tancy graduate. "Be willing to experiment. Chicago has a lot to offer in living arrangements. There are many apartment­finding services which charge fees, but get a comfortable pair 
of walking shoes, The Reader, 
-------­
and hit the pavement." 
For urban dwellers, cars are 
unnecessary and, generally, 
inconvenient and expensive to 
house. Of course, work may 
necessitate a car, but 
Chicago's convenient public 
transportation, featuring the 
legendary "el-train," makes 
door-to-desk travel time 
approximately 20 to 30 minutes. Kathy Balane, an '86 accountancy graduate ob­serves, "From 9 to 5 during the week, no one walks, they sprint. You'll see more tennis shoes than in a Reebok fac­tory." 



Pre-Employment Drug Testing On The Rise 
N
early 30 percent of employers hiring this year's college graduates conduct pre-employment drug tests, and another 20 percent plan to adopt the practice within the next two years, according to a recent study done by the Col­lege Placement Council of almost 500 national employers. 
"The data found in our survey corroborata other reports that drug screening programs are on the rise. Clearly the study shows this is a major employment issue," said Warren Kaufman, acting executive director of the College Placement Council. 
The number of firms recruiting at Notre Dame which have notified the Career and Place­ment Services office of their in­tention to do drug screening remains relatively small, accor­ding to the director, Kitty Arnold. 
'The data found in survey corroborate other reports that drug screening programs are on the rise.' 
"To date, only eleven of the ap­proximately 280 firms recruiting here have indicated that they are requiring applicants to take drug tests. However, I would estimate that many others have begun testing but simply have not notified us as yet." Arnold reports that the only companies which she has heard from are Cham­pion International, Chrysler, Dow Corning, Eastman Kodak, Exxon Research Center, General Foods, IBM, McDonnell Douglas, Martin Marietta, Procter and Gamble, and Texas Instruments. 
'Not a single student has spoken to me about the tests or questioned their legality or appropriateness ••.' 
Generally firms incorporate the drug testing with a pre­employment physical exam, Ar­nold explained. The first stage of the controlled substance testing is usually through urinalysis. If the results are positive, most companies will use a second, more sophisticated analysis tech­nique as a confirmation. If the candidate still tests positive for illegal drug use, employment will generally be denied. 
"One of the interesting aspects of this complex issue for me has been the apparent lack of student concern. Not a single student has spoken to me about the tests or questioned their legality or ap­propriateness," Arnold observed. "Among my colleagues in college placement and corporate recruit­ing, the questions of invasion of privacy, breach of confidentiality, accuracy of the tests, and the ability of the tests to assess im­pairment for the job are currently being debated." Since so many of the issues surrounding drug testing in the workplace are still unclear, she advises students to stay abreast of new court deci­sions, both for job applicants and current employees, and to be aware of the far-reaching implica­tions of casual drug use with regard to today's labor market. 

If you do opt for walking, you'll need an equipped ward­robe. Chicago has deservedly been called the "Windy City." Gusts of 35 mph off the lake in winter are not uncommon. "You'll experience all four seasons in Chicago," warns Gretchen Wroblewski, an '86 accountancy graduate. She adds one needs a "long, warm coat for winter," and that "boots are a must." 
Once you've made it through winter, summer prom­ises more unpleasantries. "Hot, humid, sticky; it's like home away from South Bend," 
quips Chris Hirschfeld, an '86 GovernmenV ALPA graduate. 
Lest you despair, Lake Mic­higan does exert a moderating effect in the summer, and Chicagoans do enjoy their summers. Chris is anticipating fun, "I can't wait for summer. 
2@~ 
~ 
l:ntCNiCIUS  'a.IO  
Mllndcta~  ~'TuH~  -.II  
~_.drao..,  3~  
L...~  ?>a.I  
s~  '+-JU  11\7  

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5,1987 
Chicagofest and Taste of 
-------­
Chicago are two cultural fes­
tivals I've been told not to 
miss." 
Most Chicagoans remain in 
the city on weekends. Conse­
quently, the city's weekend so­
cial life is intense. Kathy Bal­
ance is convinced "all 3 million 
residents of Chicago go to 
Rush Street every Friday and 
Saturday night." There are an 
endless number of watering 
holes on Rush Street, and 
good times are the norm. John 
Moran reports, "There are still 
quarter beers ($.25) at Mul­
doon's." 
Chicago is also a beautiful 
city. Mike Milani, an '86 
finance graduate, who lives 
near the lake, says, "The 
lakeshore offers all the park 
space, running tracks and 
playgrounds anyone could 
desire." 
Whether Chicago is "your 
kind of town" remains a matter 
of opinion. Should your career 
take you to Chicago, however, 
Chris Hirschfeld offers the 
most challenging advice. 
"Don't be afraid to try anything 
once. You might be 
surprised." 

Chicago Pastimes 
What Domers Recommend 
•Chicago 
Theatre 


•Summer 
Boat Rides 

•Wright 
Brothers Tour (Oak Park) 

•Giordano's 
("the worlds greatest pizza") 

•Cubs 
game ("There's noth­Ing like a rubbery hot dog washed down by a warm, flat beer") 

•Marshall 
Fields 

•Rush 
Street 


•Museum 
of Science & In­dustry 

•Brookfield 
Zoo 


•After-dinner 
drinks atop the John Hancock Building 

•Bears 
Game 


•Water 
Tower Place for shopping 

•Dinner 
at Ed Debevlc's 

•Museum 
of Natural History 

•Zanies 
Comedy Shop 

•Schubert 
Theatre 


Second Interview Workshops 
•February 9 4-5 p.m. Memorial Ubrary Lounge 
•February 10 4-5 p.m. Memorial Library Lounge 
•March 4 
4-5 p.m. 

Career & Placement Conference Room 


Hints For On-Site Interviews 
Y 
ou've finally gotten the call inviting you to fly to the corporate office for an on-site interview. Congratulations! You are a giant step closer to that desired job offer. Before you go, take the advice of some recent grads who were in your place several years ago. 
In 1985, the late Dr. John Lindner of TRW, a long-time friend of Notre Dame, polled recently hired employees at his firm about their experiences with second interviews. His findings made in a report before his untimely death in September of that year included some of the following sugges­tions and comments. 
Preparation for the plant or office visit is the key to success, according to many of the respondents. In depth research of the company and the industry as a whole is strongly recommended. Knowing the structure of the organization and being able to identify the particular projects of greatest personal interest are mentioned frequently as significant. 
Also mentioned is the need to anticipate techni­cal or hypothetical situation questions. The TRW employees reported that they were asked technical questions at many of the companies they visited but advised candidates not to panic. One stated that the interviewer is often more interested in the method an applicant uses to arrive at an answer than whether the answer is correct. Several recom­mended that when asked a tough technical ques­tion, interviewees should verbally reason their way through the response and not worry about whether it is the best answer. 
Respondents also advised that one dry clean one's business suit and plan one's wardrobe with reference to variations in the weather. Comfortable business shoes are a necessity because most on-site interviews involve a great deal of walking. Kitty Arnold, Career and Placement Services director, also recommends obtaining specific information in advance of the trip about flight and hotel reservations, ground transportation from the airport to the hotel and the work site, and appropri­ate expense reimbursement arrangements. "Your hosts don't want a fouled-up trip to dampen your enthusiasm for their firm, so they welcome any questions you may have," she asserts. 
Some of the TRW employees discussed surprises during second interviews. A few were dismayed by delays or interruptions during the visit. Others said they were amazed at how tiring an entire day of interviews could be and urged students to get a good night's sleep the night before. Many individuals stressed the importance of remembering to save receipts for reimbursement requests. 
· Many respondents maintained that the most important aspect of the plant or office interview visit is that candidates are in a position to evaluate the company more critically. According to Arnold, three of four 1986 Notre Dame graduates invited for second interviews were extended job offers. With odds like that in the balance, the second interview can really be an enjoyable experience. 
-
----~-------------------------------------­
Viewp.oint ..
Thursday, February 5,1987-page 9 







New rules necessary to better college sports 

Third And Long January, 1986. Holy Cross head football coach Rick Carter commits suicide following a disappoint­ing season. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 

February, 1986. At anN.F.L. scouting combine, the top college football seniors were given drug tests. Over 50% of the players tested positive for drug use. No action was taken against these players. 
June, 1986. Len Bias, all-american basketball player at the University of Maryland, dies a cocaine-related death. Later in the week it is revealed Bias had failed four out of five courses in the spring semester. Later in the year, head coach Lefty Driesell resigns, leaving the Maryland program in shables. 
August, 1986. As a result of Proposi­tion 48, minimum academic standards for freshman athletic eligibility, many top football and basketball recruits are ineligible to play. 
November, 1986. Investigations by the N.C.A.A., reveal widespread and systematic violations in the Southern Methodist University football program. It is the third time in the past decade 
S.M.U. has been found guilty of viola­tions. Both the N.C.A.A. and the school administration consider terminating the football program. Following this, both the head football coach and ath­letic director resign their posts, ap­parently getting off scot-free. 
December, 1986. Oklahoma All­American linebacker Brian Bosworth and U.S.C all-American offensive lineman Jeff Bregel both test positive for steroid use and are banned from playing in their bowl games. The ex­tremely random test of bowl partici­pants reveals other steroid users and bans them from their games. Cocaine and marijuana users, however, are not named or punished. 
January, 1987 Auburn defeats U.S.C. in the Florida Citrus Bowl. Auburn All­American running back Brent Ful­lwood rushes for over 100 yards. During the game, it is announced that due to illness and personal problem, Fullwood had not attended class since early Oc­tober. He did not, however, miss any games during that time. Following the game, Auburn officials censure head coach Pat Dye for allowing this to oc­cur. 
As you can see, 1986 was not exactly a banner year for college athletics. Al­though there were a few positive stories, including the miraculous recovery of our own David Rivers, the 
N.C.A.A. in 1986 was a house on fire. Scandals involving drugs, academics, recruiting and even death rocked the very foundation of college athletics. The 1987 N.C.A.A. convention is being held this month, and hopefully, some positive steps will come from this meeting. 
Attending school full-time and also being a top-notch athlete is a near­impossibility. The time demands from both activities are enormous. Last year, I spent the spring as a baseball manager, so I am speaking from some experience. Last year, the baseball team played 50 games over a period of 56 days. I am sure most other sports take up at least as much time. The rules set down by the N.C.A.A. which govern college athletics are very confusing and need to be revised. The rules put undue stress and strain on players and coaches alike. As a result of some of these weak or ineffective rules, some violators are getting away while inno­cent people are being punished. The end result of this confusion is often a destroyed life, such as Len Bias or Rick Carter. 
I am sure the N.C.A.A. administra­tion has many ideas on how to fix what is wrong in college athletics. I do not know if they have sought actual input from the student-athletes who will be affected by their decisions. I am sure student-athletes would have some dif­ferent ideas about what should be changed and what shouldn't. Although I am not a student-athlete, I think some of my ideas might be worthy of inves­tigation. So, N.C.A.A. officials and coaches, LISTEN UP! 
FIRST, each school should institute a drug testing program for all its ath­letes. If players test positive for drug abuse, treat them with a firm hand yet with compassion. Tell them they cannot play until they clean up their act. Get them into rehab programs but do not abandon them, because they need help. The problem with drug testing as with most of the following changes, is money. Schools claim they don't have the funds to subsidize drug tests for all their athletes. I have one question to ask these schools. What is more impor­tant: a new scoreboard in the stadium or the lives of your athletes? Find the money for drug testing, because drugs are destoying college sports. 
SECOND, abolish athletic dorms. They serve no purpose. By isolating the athletes from the other students, you foster an attitude of contempt and suspicion in your student body. Keeping the athletes together does not help your team. Notre Dame has never had ath­letic dorms and has always been a top program. Let your athletes live with other students. By sheltering them, you deprive them of a significant part of the college experience. The more expo­sure your athletes get on campus by mixing with the student body, the more support you will get on game day. 
THIRD, make freshman ineligible for varisity competition, either by red­shirting or some other method. This will be a very unpopular suggestion to most Division 1 coaches, but it must be done. Allow these fragile young men and women time to get their feet wet in the college experience before thrust­ing them into the limelight. Adjusting to the academic work is difficult enough without worrying about three hours of practice per day. I realize this would take away such performers as Rex Chapman, but for every Rex Chapman there are four or five other freshman who are seriously floundering. A red­shirt policy might not be a bad idea. Freshman year, the athletes could at­tend practice three or four times a week to get use to the system but still con­centrate on their studies. As they move to their sophomore year, they would still have four years to play. They could decrease their school load during their playing season and easily graduate in five years, at the same time their ath­letic eleigibility runs out. This would also reduce the number of players that have to attend summer shcool to main­tain their eligiblitiy. 
FOURTH, provide academic ad­

visors for each sport. Allow them the power to oversee all the academic work of the players in the sport and to with­hold the student from competition if his or her grades are poor. We have ath­letic trainers, why not academic trainers? I know that last spring, a majority of my studying was done on a bus. These academic trainers should be able to travel with teams and act as a professor while the team is on the road. FIFTH, give all scholarship athletes a monetary stipend for personal ex­penses. Just because they have no time to work doesn't mean they don't need spending money. I know I would not be able to survive here if I did not have a job on campus. The athletes are acting as ambassadors of the university, so pay them for it. By paying this allow­ance, you would drastically reduce im­proper loans or other dealings with boosters. If the athlete has enough money to tide him or her over, he or she is less likely to accept money or other things from an over-zealous booster. 
SIXTH, educate high school seniors about the ethics of recruiting. Let them know what is right and what is wrong. Tell them that if they do wrong, they will lose their college eligibility. By starting at this level, you can signifi­cantly reduce illegal recruiting. Assign one N.C.A.A. representative to each state and have them go into the high schools and talk to potential scholar­ship athletes about the recruiting process. Educate the high school coaches as well. Since they have the most contact with the athlete, they should also know what is going on. 
Some of these changes are quite dras­
tic, while others are not. 

Some coaches will agree with some points, but disagree with others. Regardless, all these points have the students athlete's best interests in mind. I believe they would make a good starting point for the reform of college athletics. Some of these ideas may very well be considered at the convention. The suggestions will all cost money, but what doesn't? I think it is worth the extra cost to prevent a reappearance of the tragedy and scandal of 1986. One can only hope the N.C.A.A. realizes its problems before more lives are destroyed by the intense pressure of college athletics. 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore English major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 



P.O.BoxQ 
Sponsorship of debate misrepresents labels 
Dear Editor: 

The University press release stated that "The University of Notre Dame's Theology Department will sponsor" the February 9th debate on abortion be­tween Dr. Daniel Maguire and Fr. James T. Burtchaell. This sponsorship is a disgrace to Notre Dame. 
Daniel Maguire, a leader of Catholics for a Free Choice, presents his pro­abortion view as a legitimate Catholic position. Thus he congratulated Notre Dame on "allowing the multiple Cath­olic views on abortion to be heard and debated." In fact, as the Pope and Bis­hop D' Arcy of this diocese have made clear, the pro-abortion or "pro-choice" position is not a genuine Catholic posi­tion. Daniel Maguire gains notoriety in the media only because he falsely passes his position off as authentically "Catholic." Notre Dame, in providing him a forum to present his claim at a Catholic university, implicitly con­cedes that his view is at least a debatably legitimate Catholic position. Whether or not Fr. Burtchaell himself regards the Maguire position as aut­hentically Catholic and no matter how eloquently he speaks against abortion, 
he will have lost the real debate the moment he steps on the platform. By the mere fact that the "debate" is held under these auspices, Dr. Maguire will have gained the sanction of Notre Dame for the false claim that the Cath­olic position is defined not by the Vicar of Christ, the Councils and the bishops in union with him, but by individual 
theologians. 

The basic principles of legalized abortion is precisely the principle that underlay the Nazi extermination of the Jews, that an innocent human being can be defined as a non-person and sub­jected to death at the discretion of others. If the present leaders of the The­ology Department had been around in 1943, perhaps they would have provided a forum for a "Catholic" apologist for Auschwitz and Buchenwald. 
The Notre Dame Theology Depart­ment (with a few notable exceptions) and Dr. Maguire deserve each other. Both claim to be "Catholic" and yet neither accepts the teaching authority of the Vicar of Christ. It is time for the Theology Department to institute a course on "The Moral Imperative of Truth in Labeling." 
Charles E. Rice Professor of Law 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. 
General Board


Ihe Obseryer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann 
Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon 
Viewooint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University 
Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and S!lint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies 
Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlinof the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively 
Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 
• 





Accent 
Thursday, February 5,1987-page 10 
-----------~--~-~~~-­
--------------------------------------------------------------~~Vl~ 
Winter fun in the sun i~} 
THERESA LOOMIS features writer 
sn't all of our recent snow 

fun? Before answering with an emphatic "no", consider the myriad of opportunities offered near the South Bend area. Win­ter activities suiting all tastes exist in close proximity so try a new sport or continue with a familiar one for either relaxa­tion or excitement. 

Several ski resorts are within calling (616)695-.3847. a one hour drive from the Swiss Valley, located in Notre Dame campus. Ski Jones, Michigan, offers more World, in Buchanon, Michigan, for the advanced skiier with is just :50 minutes away. On approximately seven hills, three weekends lift tickets cost be­of which are chair lifts. If you tween $15 and $1 7, depending have equipment, $17 pur­on arrival time. Weekend rental chases a lift ticket for an entire prices range from $11 to $15. day. Tuesdays are free days The curious can obtain addi­with rental and lessons pro­tional information by talking to vided if you register before 4 any freshman in the skiing pro­p.m. Dial (616)244-8016 to gram for physical education or learn more. 
• 

Double, triple, quad, and pommel chair lifts are in use at the Timber Ridge Ski area of Otsego, Michigan which is an hour away. Weekend rates are $1 7 for a lift ticket and $12 for rental. As with the previous ski areas, weekday prices and times vary so call toll free at 1-800-25:5-2928. 
Nearby cross country ski trails are in greater abundance than downhill ski resorts and presently are in excellent condi­tion. The county parks of St. Patrick's, Baugo Creek. Madeline Bertrand, and Bendix Woods provide miles of scenic trails. All are within a half hour drive, with St. Patrick's being the closest at only 10 minutes away. These parks are open to skliers from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and require a $:5 per hour fee for rental services which are available only on weekends. 
For those who wish to 

remain close to "home", the 
Notre Dame golf course boasts 
Its own trails. Rental fees 
fluxuate depending on the 
number of days one wishes to 
keep the equipment. The NVA 
will be sponsoring cross 
.Senior Keith Tel'l'erl goes for the gusto 
Snow days? 
I t1t/ST 5/IY-rH05£ WC~c TilE BBr ··oov&HNtJT5" rovvc-£1/ER. PoNE!
v; "-. 
KAREN THOMPSON features writer 
1•Jth at least another month 
VVof possible snow storms, the ever present hope that classes will be cancelled remains. Timothy O'Meara, provost of Notre Dame since 1978, stated he "didn't recall a campus wide cancellation of classes during his term." This year however, with a record number of off campus stu­dents, the issue may become more serious. 
O'Meara explained that there are three situations under which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's operate. "They operate with everything open, with classes open and services closed, or with everything can­celled except for security and maintenance." He stated that "there is no policy concerning off campus students and bad weather." O'Meara added, "Even if the number of off campus students increases, do not anticipate the imple­mentation of a policy regarding this." 
\Maureen Mullen, Professor of Nursing at Saint Mary's, feels that. "it is important for stu­dents to use prudent judge­ment concerning the weather." She stated that "missing class because of extremely bad wea­ther is something that should be kept between the students and the professor." Katie Cerel­11, an off campus senior, agreed that "the responsibility for getting to class rests with the students and we have the responsibility for contacting professors if unable to attend." She also feels that "some sort of policy should be imple­mented to avoid confusion." Mary Ann Lynch, a Campus View resident, stated that "off campus students should be excused in bad weather so they can make up missed work." 

On the other hand, MiKe Breslin, a Notre Dame off campus student, explained that even though he was in "a three car accident because of the roads, no policy should be im­plemented because the stu­dents would abuse it." Trish Skahan of Irish Hills apart­ments disagreed, stating, "both campuses cater to on campus students only. I had to drop a class because I missed several meetings due to the weather and couldn't make up the work." As Regina Lynch of Campus View says, "I didn't realize how bad walking to classes would be until it started snowing so much. It's really cold out there and it's a long walk." 
In light of the aforemen­tioned remarks, It Is clear that there is some disagreement as to whether or not a policy should be put into effect and If so, what it should be. It is ob­vious however, that off campus students do have added re­sponsibility In getting to classes and meetings, regard­less of the weather. 

7/ll\.(\f... ~ 

country ski "moonlighters" on February :5rd and 17th from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. With $1 rental fee and free hot chocolate they provide "cheap fun." On Satur­day, February 7th a 2 mile race and 200 yard sprint with novice and advanced categories will be hosted. The deadline for entries is February 5th. 
Skating enthusiasts do not have to travel far since the Notre Dame rink has free skating on Monday, Wednes­day, and Friday from noon to 1 
p.m. 
Students can also get a little exercise on the weekends. as the rink is open from 8 p.m to 10:15 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and from 2: 15 

p.m. 
to 4::50 p.m. on Sunday afternoon charging just $1. For those who cannot work these times into their schedule, Howard Park Ice Rink which is less than 1 0 minutes away on Jefferson Blvd. is open on weekday afternoons and for four different sessions every Saturday and Sunday. Others who enjoy the feel of the winter sun (yes, it is still there) will appreciate the outdoor rink at Merrifield Recreation Complex on Mishawaka Ave. Skating times are 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 1 1 


a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekends. The center provides rental skates for $. 75. 
Tubing at St. Patrick's, Baugo Creek. and Bendix Woods of­fers an alternative for the more adventurous. Thrill seekers need pay only $2 per person. Hours at St. Patrick's and Baugo Creek are Friday from 4 
p.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday from 1 I a.m. to 9 p.m., and Sunday from noon to 5 p.m. 
Bendix Woods proves that even tubing can be romantic. Not only do they remain open an extra hour on the previously mentioned nights, but they also designate Friday night as two for one. 
Snowshoeing at Baugo Creek 

demonstrates that walking 
through the white stuff does 
not have to be as tortorous as 
it appears. $:5 will provide a 
pair of snowshoes and an un­
believable day of winter 
sightseeing. 
A final place worth mention­

ing is Michigan's Camp Bel­
lowood Recreational World. 
Forty-five minutes separates 
the Notre Dame campus from 
this :550 acre winter paradise. 
After paying $.3, cross country 
skliers, with complementary 
map in hand, may spend the 
entire day roaming the trails. A 
sleigh ride and bonfire could 
make the day complete. Camp 
Bellowood supplies the teams 
of horses, bonfire, hot dogs, 
and buns and the sleigh riding 
party can bring additional 
refreshments. Groups making 
reservations must consist of 1 0 
or more people. The hour long 
ride costs $5 per person. 
With all of these recreational winter diversions, any com­plaints about the lake effect snow are unjustified. Hurry to get out Into the brisk February breezes and take advantage of these winter opportunities be­cause. Qefore long, the fun will be melting away. 

The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 11 
Sports Briefs Alford lights up for 42 as IU wins 
The ND women's soccer club will have a scrimmage against Saint Mary's tonight at Turners. Tournament players should meet at the Library Circle at 7:45p.m. and should wear dark jerseys. Also, anyone in­terested in playing indoor soccer should meet at Gym 1 of the ACC every Wednesday night. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The ND judo club has new practice times for the rest of the semester. The club will meet Wednesdays, 7:30 to 9:30p.m. and Sundays, 4 to 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. Also, the club will not hold practice this Sunday because of the tournament. For more information contact Rob (232­6917) or Sara (3427). -The Observer 
A women's softball clinic forplayersandcoaches will be held Saturday, Feb. 14 at Angela Athletic Facility. Registration will run from 7:30 to 8:30 the day of the clinic. Coaches from various colleges, including Northwestern's Dr. Sharon Drysdale, will be featured. Fees are $25 per coach and $10 per student. For more information call 284­5448. -The Observer 
The ND women's varsity cross-country team will have a mandatory meeting today at 5:30p.m. at room 127 of the ACC. -The Observer 
A cross-country ski race sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Sign-ups run through tomorrow in the SAB office, second floor of LaFortune. Rentals are available. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Steve Alford scored a career­high 42 points, setting an As­sembly Hall record enroute to No.2 Indiana's 84-80. victory over Michigan State in Big Ten Conference basketball Wednes­day night. 
Indiana, 9-1 in the Big Ten and 18-2 overall, preserved a one-game first place lead over Iowa in conference standings. 
The Hoosiers led 44-31 at halftime, with Alford scoring 24 points, but couldn't shake the stubborn Spartans. 
Indiana led 72-59 with 8:58 remaining, but Michigan State exploded for 10 of the next 12 points, taking a 74-69 lead on a Vernon Carr break-away dunk with 3:44 left in the game. 
The Spartans had a chance to cut the lead to three, but Ed Wright, all alone on a breakaway layup with 2:30 left, traveled. Then the game turned into a free-throw shoot­ing contest, with Alford hitting eight charity shots in the last 1: 51 to secure the victory. 

The Hoosiers jumped out to a 16-10 lead in the first 7:30 of the first half, but the Spartans' Darryl Johnson scored six of Michigan State's next eight points to give the visitors their first lead, 19-18. 
But then Alford took over, scoring 15 points in a 19-4 spurt, giving the Hoosiers a 37-23lead with 4: 21 left in the first half. 
Michigan State, 3-7 and 8-12, was led by Carr with 25 points, including 17 in the second half; and Johnson with 21, including 13 in second half. 
Oklahoma 80, Nebraska 66 
LINCOLN -Harvey Grant scored 22 points as eighth­ranked Oklahoma beat Nebras­ka, 80-66, in a Big Eight Con­ference basketball game, the Sooners' ninth consecutive vic­tory. 
David Johnson had 16 points for the Sooners, 18-3 overall and 6-1 in the conference, while David Kennedy and Tim McCalister scored 15 each. 
The Cornhuskers, 12-8 and 2­5, were led by Brian Carr and Anthony Bailous with 15 points each, while Bernard Day added 11. 
Iowa 78, Minnesota 47 
IOWA CITY, Iowa-Forward Roy Marble scored 12 of his 14 points in the first half as No. 4 Iowa rolled over Minnesota, 78­47, in a Big Ten college basket­ball game. 
Marble sparked the first-half surge as Iowa moved to 20-2 overall and 8-2 in the confer­ence, as the Hawkeyes held on to second place. Minnesota fell to 9-11 overall and 2-8 in the Big Ten. 
Kelvin Smith, Minnesota's leading scorer averaging 14.2 points going into the game, did not start and scored only two points. 
Iowa 7-foot forward Brad Lohaus added 11 points, six on 3-point field goals, while center Ed Horton had 10 points. 

T1le Obaerver Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obaerver Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
PRO· TYPE Quality wort<, reasonable $. 
277·5833 
WORDPROCESSING 277·8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277· 7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST Haart·ahaped Opal. It fell out of Ita aet11ng 1127. PLEASE If you lind It, call 277-6033. Sentimental value. REWARD$$$. 
FOUND: B·Bali Tlx after Marquet1e game ·near Grot1oSt Mary·a Lake call 2885 to Identify and claim 
LOST: Room Keya(318) & others on ring 
with a charm which hu "SAJ" on front. 
II found call Scot1 \609 
LOST :a gold link bracelet last Thursday at the b·bali game, Sr. bar. or Bridget's. Great sentimental value. II found please call Melissa at 272·2478. 
LOST: BLACK COOPER HOCKEY GLOVE AT ACCONTHURSDAY NIGHT BEFORE ALUMNI-SORIN GAME. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 287·6622. REWARD OFFERED. 
FOUND: one pair of eyeglasses In the Engineering Auditorium Friday night aher the movies. Cali Chas. x1766 
I lost a small gold keychaln last Friday at Thaodore'a. It Is oval and the name "KIM" Is engraved on one side. II you found It, please call 2845. I really want to get back Into my rooml 
LOST·On Feb. 2,sllver necklace wtroaa,rlng and charm.Probably at the ACC track.ll found please call Tim at 
3450. 
FOUND! CASSETIES: 8 or 10 mus1c tapes 1n a "Tupperware" box along with a watch Call Steve Weldy or Kay at UNITED LIMO 674·6993. Must Identify moat of casaelles and watch brand. (These Items were found at Bus Shelter at Christmas) 
LOST: Navy Blue Cordouroy Notre Dame Hockey hat 1n hockey rink stands Thursday, 1129 aher midnight Internal! geme Please call Tony at x438511 found 
LOST Key on NO keynng: studect 10, MD dnver's license. cash, and photos gl Mom and Dad I'm locked out ot my house May have been lost 1n car of n1ce guy WhO gave me a nde to campus ...Call Beth: 287·3953 Leave a message II I'm not there. PLEASE' 
LOST· in Theoaore·a Fr1 t.30 FOOT· BALL JACKET · blue w white sleeves "PELHAM VARSITY'' on back. No que&· !ton. Cali Sr.tZ1V 37< LOST: DESIGN OF MACHINE ELE· MENTS a Lt. Gray ME book and 3 spiral notebooks on Feb. 2, noon, North Dining Hall. If found call Marc x2056. 
LOST: Keys lost at the North Carolina game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. If found PLEASE call 2690. 
FOUND: A detex at Career and Place· menton Monday, Feb. 2. You can claim It by giving us the Identification numbers on it. Ask for It at the main desk. 
LOST: Men's Class Ring. Initials Inside ·JPK '88·. Lost last Wednesday night be­tween bookstore and Senior Bar. Please contact If you lind lt. 'Ptlbne·1222 and ask for John, '!}lanka. 
i:iew»:i:ioiii:i'ewA'Fioii·i·;.;~;·;;;y a:b~ii'ii~ 
just inside Gate 10 before the Carolina Gamel! Call Dan £11 IT! Please. 
LOST: MY MIND IF WHOEVER FOUND MY STUDENT ID AND OTHER LIFE NECESSITIES MONDAY NIGHT (FEB. 
2) DOES NOT RETURN THEM. THEY WERE LOST BETWEEN THE E·F LOBBY OF NORTH DINING HALL AND PW,AND HELD IN HALF OF A GREEN 10 CASE. IF YOU FOUND THEM, PLEASE RETURN THEM TO NORTH DINING HALL OR CALL LESLIE LAC· HAPELLE AT £4351. THANKS! 
WANTED 

SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-8()().237·2061 
HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut wants drivers with own car and In· surance.Call277·2662 or stop by 138 11.! Dixie Way No. In Roseland. 
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR EASTER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL JACK x1666 or DAN x1719 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381· 4224 
Need ride to IU·Bioomington or Indy for !hiS weekend. Please call £2913. 
Muat Buy! Needed to buy: a couch. Must be cheap and 'nappable' Call 2053 
I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI ON FEB. 12 OR 13. MARTY 2937 
NEED RIDE EAST· Toi,Ctev,P1t1, this wknd. leb.6·8,share$$,please call Brad· 4076. 
FOR SALE 
AIRLINE' TIX: OHARE-LAX 13MAR· 22MAR MUST SELL·$280 OR BEST OF· FER BY t 8FEB. CALL LIZ EHRET 4­
I\4QA ANV'l 
FOR SALE: '86 Bertone x19 convertible. Alpine Stereo. Plrelll tires. 4500 miles. $9900. Call 255·2130. 
ROUNDTRIP AIRFARE: SB· Tampa,3"14·:Y.!2.$200.Call Gordo, 1666. 
TICKETS 
~ Tickets Deaparetely to both the North Carolina and Duke basketball games. Ehhar student or GA'a. Call Eric at 272·8123. 
I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. Could you help me achieve equl· leeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. 
I NEED 2 DUKE TIX (EITHER G.A. OR STU.) SISTERS ARE COMING OUT FOR THE WEEKENDII CALL TOM AT X-4605 
WANTED: Duke GA's & STU TIX, ext. 2994 Loret1a 
NEED 2 OR 4 DUKE GA'S CALL KEVIN 2t65 
I NEED 2 DUKE GA'S: PAUL 2364 
Druid needs Duke GAs Andy 1650 
4 SENIORS ROADTRIPPING TO KANSAS. NEED TIX. CALL 4334 OR 1499. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
I NEED DUKE GA'S. PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 2892. 
Need 2 Duke GA's. Please Call Mickey at 2742. 
Tix for Anne Murray show In Merriville, Sat. 2-28 at 8pm. Call after Spm 233· 5168. 
2 Ilk's Beach Boys & J.Jett. 1st row $20 each £1587 
I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DUKE GAs PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALf· FORNI A BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 
$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED DUKE 
TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR 
AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 1!111 
........................................................ 
UP TO 6 DUKE GA·STEPHX3944 
I NEED GA'S FOR THE DUKE GAME. MARTY 2937 
............................."''"' HELPI My grandparents are coming out lor the DUKE GAME and I need 3 GA's! PLEASE call xt34t or x127t 
URGENT Need 2 GAs for DUKE game Call J1m 277·3760 
NEED 3 DUKE GA'S OR STUD TIX. CALL NOW, IF NOT SOONER x21 13 
~)~ 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH ­STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
HAIRCUTS 
$4$4 
call amy 284·5032 
Last Chance For Spring Break '871 South Padre Island, Daytona Baach, Steamboat Springs, Miami Beach/ Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island' Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal· ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today lor last minute Information and reserve· tlons 1·800·321·59111 
BENDIX WOODS Thurs. Feb. 12 Sign-ups thru Friday In SAB olllcea tlx $5 (Incl. bua) 
APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSmONS available on 2nd floor Lafortune applications due Feb. 13; lor more In­fo., atop by SAB ollie• 
RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS Very, very cheap. Best deal In town. If Roy Orbison can wear 'em, so can you. Call Tim at X180t. 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH 
Round trip trenaportatlon I 7 nlghta 
eccomodatlona $200. U·Drlv•lt & 
Hven nlghta accomodatlona $149. 
Contact Campua Rep. at 283-4003, or 
atop by 324 Farley lor more Inform•· tton. 
I need a ride to Purdue on 2113·15 Greg 2727 
DISCOVER SOME GREAT VALENTINE GIFT IDEAS AT THE COUNTRY HARVESTER LOCATED IN THE BASE· MENT OF THE LAFORTUNE BUILD· lNG. 
DO ME againfl DOME shirts are backll Watch lor more into ..... 
Are you the blue-eyed blond guy wl glasses in Scanlon's 9:30 TI? I want to meet you. Reply here 
Help! Ride·needed to Holland. Ml on :Mi. Please call Kara, 284·4t45 
STUDENT STEALS KEG PART 4 OF 5 
At the news conference the suspect made her first statement since her arrest. After demanding "G1mme abrew, I wanna get some shmaky now." The suspect said only, "I'm not guilty, and I'm not a lush." After th1s bnef comment she was as· corted out under llasn1ng bulbs by the pohce. She could be heard yelling, "You want some of thiS." by the pol1ce. Con· tinued Friday 

HUMAN LEAGUEIII 
HUMAN LEAGUEIII 
HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING! 
TO THE RIVIERA NIGHT CLUB·· CHICAGO FEB. 15 BUS PROVIDED TO CHICAGO··FREEIII 
C.J. HAPPY 191h B·DAY·to one older but mature and beautiful lady. Thank you lor tour wondertul years of friendship. Can't wait to celebrate the next lour years I Love, The younger one 
SENIORS SENIORS Last chance to be lnvolved.Help out with Senior Month ...the best month of your young adult llves.lnterested persons should at1end a meeting Wed,Feb 11 ,9:00,Senior Bar.Call Lea(3719) or Gordo(1666) If you are unable to make lt. 
D· I am very glad lor you. When It gets tough, you know you have a Friend. My warmest, V. 
JOSEPH IS A DEITY YES, JOSEPH CHURA IS INDEED THE MALE VIXEN OF THE CENTURY. 
DESTINATION INDYit 
PILLOWS?? TICKLING?? FUN?? AS SOON AS YOU WANTII MAYBE WE COULD EVEN GET DRUNK TQ. GETHER. NAAHI..DC 
Weather forecast for Thursday: Intense blluard, 10 feet of snow. Sorry Tim, no wedding. Remember Chris: bring the flower to my room. Bob: we're going to have to share the room at the Knight's Inn too. Bug Eater: Have they made smaller jeans yet? Hso, bring them along to the Inn. 
Two weeks ago It was Wheel of Fortune, Family Feud, and S and B. Walt until you see what we have In store for after Lyons formal. The Basement Pseudo· roommates 
SECOND CITY TOURING COMPANYIII SECOND CITY TOURING COMPANY! II Tonight 7 & 9:30 shows Tix $4 sold at door Wash. Hall 
The Observer is looking lor BAR and RESTAURANT reviewers. Reviewers are reimbursed for reviews. Contact Mary Jacoby at 239·5313 or 272·3833. 
Okay Greg, you BIG WEASEL! Gimme back my poster and my teddy bear or the penguin gets lt...as in FRICASSEEII I've got two willing roommates and a large butcher knife to help put Opus out of his MISERY! So return the poster and the bear or else your beloved is going to REST IN PIECESIII 
MP: SURPRISE! JUST A NOTE TO THANK YOU FOR MAKING THE PAST 4 MONTHS SO FUN AND SPECIAL. "HAPPY TO BE STUCK WITH YOU" SMILE, SWEETIE I XOXOXO YOUR AD 
HEY LULU, I HATE IT WHEN I SCREW UP A PALINDROME. TRY ANOTHER CATEGORY! 
HI TRUCKBACKI MAYBE YOU SHOUl.DTRY RANDY'S PICKUP NEXT TIME I 
CPA's unite! We can do ltlf 
THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPART· MENT All would·be MUCKRAKERS and HACK JOURNALISTS are Invited to at1end the INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS AND EDITORS CONFERENCE to be held this year at the University of Missouri at Co· lumbla, a bastion of American journalism excellence. All Interested News Depart· ment reporters and editors are Invited to an Informational meeting this Sunday at 
7:15 at The Observer. Questions, ask tor Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski. 
ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU· DENTS PARTY TONIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO 
FREE ADMISSION! MUSIC BY "BLIND RIVER" I "PAR 3" DRINK SPECIALS TOOIII SEE VA THERE... 
PICK UP YOUR OFF-CAMPUS 
NEWSLETTER TODAY! THEY'RE ON THE OBUD DESK IN THE RRST FLOOR OF LaFORTUNE. 
ALL CAPP MAJORS REMEMBER TODAY IS THE CAPPIOPMA MEETING AT 7:00pm IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE THE PROGRAM WILL BE A MOVIE THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE WELCOME 
Problems are a slave through which our acqualntancas pass; those who are too blg to pass through become our FRIENDS. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SUSIE! ·CN, your friend & CA 
You were In lane 1 late Tues. night. Who are you? -The Guard 
CAPTAIN KOSHER..Look In the mlr· ror(during the REVUE), and see who's standing next to you! 
HI CASEY AND GREG III 
HELP · We Need Money For SPRING BREAKII II that seems hopeless, 2 Suffering SMC's will accompany any party to the Bahamas, Hawaii, or Florida. (We'll set11e lor FLA. and you don'l have to pay us II) II Inter· ested PLEASE reply here. 
Happy hall Birthday to a Very Exotic Gooberll Luv Your Roommates 
2 Ilk's Beach Boys & J.Jett. 1st row $20 each £1587 
REWARDIIREWARDIIIIost my B·ball tlx just 1ns1de Gate t 0 betore the Carolina Gamel! Call Dan £11771 Please. 
HELP • We Need Money For SPRING BREAK II II that seems hopaless, 2 Suffering SMC'a will accompany any party to the Bahamas. Hawaii, or Flonda. (We'll set11e lor FLA. and you don't have to pay usfl) II Inter· ested PLEASE reply here. 
Thursday, February 5,1987-page 12
The Observer 
Explorers 
continuedfrom page 16 
just did the things we needed to do to win." 
Notre Dame's flatness was evident on defense, as Conlin and Tarr both scored on easy layups when the Irish were slow getting down the court. Tarr then went on a tear, eluding his defender Rivers and scoring three straight times for LaSalle. Eight of Tarr's 13 points came in the first half. 
But with LaSalle switching to a zone defense, Notre Dame went to work outside. Rivers and guard Scott Hicks both con­nected from outside, and three­point specialist Sean Conner went to work from his charity stripe, making two three-point shots in the final minute, in­cluding a 30-footer at the buz­zer. That, combined with a Rivers-to-Royal alley-oop slam, gave Notre Dame a 32-30 halftime lead. 
Simmons, the freshman sen­sation for LaSalle, went to work on the Irish defense in the second half. He drew two quick fouls to open the half and hit three free throws to give LaSalle a 33-32 lead. But Con­ner, who finished with 16 points on the night, responded with two straight three pointers to keep the Irish close. 
"Sean's been doing a better job of (shooting the three­pointer)," said Phelps. "We want him to shoot it. He got a little tentative towards the second half, and I don't care if he goes four-for-nine shooting threes -that's 12 quick points." 
Simmons continued to take 

his defenders one-on-one, 
scoring 14 of his game-high 22 
points in the second half. But 
Notre Dame, behind Royal's 
patented turnaround jumper 
and River's outside shooting, 
built a 57-49 lead with 6: 10 left 
in regulation time. 
The outside shooting touch 

then disappeared for the Irish, 
as they did not score the rest 
of the half. Meanwhile, LaSalle 
came back with buckets from 
Tarr and guard Tim Legler. 
Legler finished with 16 points 
for the Explorers, including 
two crucial free throws which 
tied the game at 57 with 30 
seconds left on the clock. 
The Irish had a chance to 

take the last shot, but in a scene 
Last Night's Results 
Notre Dame 76, LaSalla 64 
LaSalle (64) 
M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 
Simmons 44 8-17 6-8 6 2 22 Kortez 42 2-6 0-1 3 4 4 Conlin 25 2-3 0-0 2 4 4 Tarr 45 6-11 0-0 0 2 13 Legler 44 7-15 2-2 4 2 16 Johnson 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Barnes 20 1-1 0-0 1 4 2 Jones 2 0-0 1-2 2 0 1 Palczewski 2 0-0 2-2 1 0 2 225 26-54 11-15 21 19 64 
FG Pet. -.481. FT Pet. -.733. 3-point goals 
-Tarr 1. Team rebounds -s5. Turnovers -7. 
Assists -8 (Tarr, Kortez, Legler 2). Technicals 
-LaSalle Bench 2. 
Notre Dame (76) 
M FG·A FT·A R F P 
Royal 35 5-7 7-9 7 1 17 
Stevenson 41 4-9 2-2 5 2 10 
Voce 21 1-3 0-0 4 2 2 
Rivers 41 6-10 1-1 2 2 13 
Hicks 34 5-8 2-2 3 4 12 
Conner 35 4-13 4-4 4 1 16 
Paddock 1 0 1-2 2·2 4 1 4 
Jackson, J. 3 0-0 0-1 0 0 0 
Fredrick 10-0 0-0020 
Jackson, T. 10-00-0100 
Nanni 1 0-0 2·2 0 0 2 
Nicgorski 1 0-1 0·0 0 0 0 
225 26·53 20·23 30 15 76 
FG Pet. -.491. FT Pet. -.870. 3-point goals 
-Conner 4. Team rebounds -e3. Turnovers 
·11. Assists -15 (Rivers, Stevenson 5). 
Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 32, LaSalle 30. Of­
ficials -Darwin Brown (MAC), Steve Skiles 
(MAC), Norm Nelson (MAC). A -11.41R 


SMC swimmers fall, 111-76, Improve against Kalamazoo 
By JANE SHEA Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team fell to Kalamazoo on Tuesday night by a score of 111-76, bring­ing the Belles' record to 5-3. 
"The team showed an excel­lent improvement from last year's meet with Kalamazoo," said Head Coach Nancy Jo Kuz­mitz. "Both Peggy Halloran and Margaret Mannion did out­standing in their events." 
Saint Mary's won the first event, the 200~yard medley relay, with a team composed of seniors, Margaret Mannion, Patty Juckniess, Mary Fisher and sophomore Tanya Reeves. Their time was 2:06.28. 
In the 50-yard freestyle, second and third place were captured by junior Meghan Rafferty with a time of 0:27.20 and senior Mary Fisher with a time of 0:28.11. 
Halloran, a sophomore, took second in both the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 1:03.29, and the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:13.75. 
Halloran also took second in the 500-yard freestyle while Jennifer Veselik, a junior, took third with times of 5:46.63 and 
6:30.32 respectively. 
In the 100-yard breaststroke Margaret Mannion had first place with a time of 1:16.95. This qualified her for the na­tionals which take place in early March. 
Tanya Reeves had two seconds in the 200-yard fly and the 200-yard individual medley while Rafferty took second in the 200-yard backstroke. 
"Our lack of divers and il­lnesses hurt the team," said Kuzmitz. 
The Belles next meet is an away meet against Calvin Col­lege on Feb. 18. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 

which was reminiscent of the really surprised at the charge UCLA game, Rivers was called call." for a charge with 23 seconds The final shot was taken by left. Tarr, who tried to go one-on­
"The charge on David was one against Stevenson. But his 

interesting," said Phelps. "I jumper from 16 feet fell short, thought we were going to be and the game went into over­shooting the one-and-one. I was time. 
Sanitized tanning booths and beds 

COUPON EXPIRES FEBRUARY 12,1987 

THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE 

The Observer Thursday, February 5,198'1-page 13 
Despite polls and ratings, Tar Heels are McGuire's top team 
, " 
.. 
r 
The Observer /Robert Jones 

North Carolina sharpshooter Dave Popson (35) fires over Donald Royal in Notre Dame's recent upset of the Tar Heels. AI McGuire tells why he thinks Carolina is the nation's top team in his column 
at right. 
• 

LIQUOR 
1 . 75 1 Glenmore Vodka • .$7.99 1.75 1 Lord Calvert•••••• $9.99 
1.75 p Ron Rico Rum ••••• $11.99 
HOURS: 
750 ml 
Windsor Canadian ••$4.99 
1.75 I Old Thompson •••$8.99 (blend) 
750 ml Absolute Vodka • .$8.99 
Editor's Note -Today's The baseline is led by Wis­column by Al McGuire was consin's gift to college hoops, received before Notre Dame Joe Wolf, who can score facing upset North Carolina last Sun­or with his back to the basket. day. Bear in mind that this is Surround him with the trium­a little dated. virate of Dave Popson and the 
AI McGuire 



Hoopla 
I don't care what AP, UPI or any of the other polls around the country say. With all respect to the Hawkeyes of Iowa, UNLV and all the other 87 heavyweight clubs in the na­tion, I still truly think that off the charts, the real power is ob­viously Sky Blue -that the Tar Heels of North Carolina are No. 1. 
From top to bottom, Dean Smith has built a solid, well­balanced basketball team. And when I say balanced, I mean balanced from the three-point area down to the paint and being able to use multiple defenses that can neutralize any offensive assets of the dif­ferent opponents they play. 
First, let's look at the back­court situation with Kenny Smith, who pushes the ball up­court quicker and more consis­tently than anyone in the game, has the ability to penetrate and kick off when drawing a double team, and who, along with his running-mate Jeff Lebo, pro­vide the finest three-point po­tential in the college game today, which stops the effi· 
ciency of any zone thrown at this Chapel Hill club. And, in case of an injury, they have a safety valve in Ranzino Smith, who is adequate, physical and mature. 

M.-TH. 9 am-10 pm Fri. & Sat. 9 am-11 pm 









~2~Vrth !~~a! M~!!~~I2~4
KEGS 

Largest selection of corked wines in area Call us on your SYR parties for price quotes. 
750 ml 
Kahlua. ••••••••$8.99 750 ml Peach Tree Schnapps•••• $4.99 

baby Twin Towers of J.R. Reid 
and Scott Williams, add a 
gentle mix of four other better­
than-average players, and 
presto: You have Numero Uno. 
North Carolina's style on of­
fense is to move the ball up­
court quickly and don't let the 
defense get set. If the numbers 
aren't right, then they'll go to 
a set offense, looking to punch 
the ball inside to one of their 
quartet of 6-10-plus baseline 
keepers. Obviously, if you sluff 
off, then they'll open up with 
their bombers from far out, and 
everything else being equal, 
they'll wear you down in the 
foul situation, so that by the 
second half you're in foul trou­
ble, ready for the knockout 
punch, which usually comes 
with about eight minutes to go 
in the game. During the last 
few minutes, they'll usually 
spread it out, work the clock, 
and get their high-percentage 
shooters to the foul line. 
Believe me, if you can't shoot 
fouls, you can't play for Dean 
Smith. 
To sum up, watching North Carolina is almost like seeing a movie in slow motion. They use multiple, multiple substitu­tions in the first half; Coach Dean will go with no fear to his nth man. And that nth man is no fluke. He's a kid out of high school somewhere that, at the time he graduated, everyone thought he was the greatest thing since 7-Up. 
So if we're talking about the best team in the country, I say forget the charts, forget the polls, and the Morning Telegraphs and Daily Bugles. The Tar Heels, in my mind, just have to be the odds-on favorite. 
But the real strength of North Carolina, I feel, is more than just the Xs and Os, or five guys on the court. It comes from what Dean Smith has done, from the total basketball pack­age he has created. The char­acter and orderliness of his pro­gram is what every coach, guys and dolls, dreams of. Its style is unique. 
Win or lose, you'll see Dean Smith's players run off the court at the end of the game, whether they're 20 points up or 20 points down. Subs on the bench stand and applaud their teammates, and on every bas­ket that's scored off a pass, you'll see the guy who scored point to the player that gave him the assist. 
Carolina is truly an efficiently-run juggernaut. Even at practice, no one gets in without a written pass from the athletic department. At courtside, there's a special car­pet laid out, where the ball players can lay while they're doing their stretching, and everything is sparkling clean ­like the penthouse suite at the Waldorf on the day the Presi­dent comes to town. 
When the commander-in­chief blows his whistle to start practice, you'd think it was the 100-yard dash for the gold in 
L.A. From then on, every second is accounted for, and every problem has been an­ticipated. And I have to add that Bill Guthridge, Coach Smith's No. 1 assistant, is a complementary basketball genius. 
One of Dean's greatest as­sets, I feel, is that he never criticizes his ballplayers to the public. He also runs the senior star system to take care of his upperclassmen, but I don't think even he can hide fresh­man J.R. Reid. Reid is definitely a three-time all­American, an Olympic star in Seoul, and I've no doubt that someday his jersey will be hanging at the Smith Center, alongside those of Michael Jor­dan, James Worthy, Billy Cun­ningham, Sam Perkins and on, and on and on. 
Finally, the big question: 
Will  the  Tar  Heels  win  the  
NCAA?  Or  even  get  to  eat  
creole food  and go from  the  

Dean Dome to the Superdome? 
Honestly, I don't know, be­cause there the timing has to be just right. They can't afford to have one of their starting backcourt men go down in­definitely, and they can't af­ford to stay with their run-and-jump, pressure defense, once opponents have broken it down and are getting chippy baskets. And, too, they can't afford to catch a team with extremely quick, snake­type rebounders in the 6-5 range who are having the game of their lives -especially if they catch that club on the second game of the weekend, when big guys tend to get lead-legged. 
But if those three above­mentioned things don't occur, then unwrap the trophy, paint it Sky Blue, and mail it to North Carolina. 
thru feb 7 

(15.6 gal.) 
Bud••••• $29.99 Busch••• $24.99 Lite••••••$32.99 
Lite (24 cans).$7.59 Miller Dratt••••$7.99 (24 cans) Old Style••••• ~7.39 (24 cans) King Case•••• $5.99 Busch 
(24 cans) ••••••.$6.39 

The Observer Thursday, February 5,1987-page 14 

Freshman Frederick is used to waiting for his opportunity 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 
Joe Frederick is confident that his time will come, his waiting will pay off, and he will get a chance to prove he can play. 
But that does not make spending most of his time during the games on the bench any easier. 
Mter finally proving to his brothers at home that he could play, he is now faced with the same obstacle at Notre Dame. And it hasn't been any easier trying to overcome this obsta­cle than it was the first. 
"That's probably been the most frustrating thing so far," says Frederick. "Most of the freshmen knew we weren't going to come in and play a whole lot, but it was rougher than I expected. It's easy to say, 'You've got to pay your dues,' but you don't realize how 

America 
continuedfrom page 16 
Planning and practice con­sumedthousandsofhours.Con­ner survived more than three months of trials among 13 chal­lenging boats from six nations. He and Stars & Stripes beat New Zealand, 4-1, in the Janu­ary semifinal, which the Kiwi boat entered with a 37-1 record. 
Kookaburra III, meanwhile, eliminated Australia IV, owned by an Alan Bond syndicate. A bond boat defeated Conner in Newport. 
At 44 and in his fourth Cup final, Conner had an edge in ex­perience over Kookaburra III skipper lain Murray, in his first final at age 28. 
Now, after 1,227 days as an Australian possession, the Cup is going back to the United States. 
Murray, who would like to be design coordinator in his synd­icate's next challenge, hopes to return the favor. 
"What goes up," he said, "must come down." 
Conner, winning Cup skipper aboard Freedom in 1980, knows the feeling. 
"I have a great feeling of em­pathy for the job he's in and the way he's feeling right now," Conner said. 
At a news conference the day he lost the Cup, Conner fought unsuccessfully to hold back tears. At Wednesday's news conference, he smiled fre­quently. 
"It'll probably all sink in to­morrow or the next day or the week after,'' he said. "Right now we're savoring it. I'm thrilled it all worked out for us." 
And it worked out so easily. The final four-race match was a mismatch. 
It was the 18th American sweep in the 26 Cup competi­tions, and the first since Ted Turner won with Courageous in 1977. 
Stars & Stripes won in light, moderate and heavy winds during the final series. It won 14 of the 16 upwind legs; it won five of the eight downwind legs in which Kookaburra III was thought to be strong; it led after every leg of the eight-leg, 24.1-mile races on the Indian Ocean. 
In 12 hours, 50 minutes and 43 seconds of sailing, Kookaburra III led for about 30 minutes and never after the first leg. 
hard it is until you're there." "It's pretty good that we can Frederick certainly had the practice. All we want to do is 
"There," in Frederick's all go through it together, and credentials to come to Notre beat them to show them that case, has been the bench. He we talk about it a lot," con­Dame coming out of high we can play." has seen action in 12 games so tinues Frederick, who rooms school. He averaged 23.3 Head Coach Digger Phelps far, and scored as many points. with teammate Scott Paddock. points, hitting over 58 percent says Frederick has had an im­Frederick says, however, that 
of his shots while garnering co­pact on the team already. looking at some history and MVP honors of the Western "His spirit has really been a having other freshmen in a sit­Metro Conference both his factor," Phelps says. "He's a uation similar to his has helped sophomore and junior years. lot like Bill Hanzlik in that him deal with it. He didn't have to share the respect and he's already been 
"There haven't been a lot of award his senior year. He was a real positive." freshmen that came in here also an all-state pick by the AP Frederick would rather be and played right away as fresh­and UPI. compared to his idol, John Pax­men," he says. "(Former Irish But he did not enjoy that kind son, but he knows where the player Bill) Hanzlik sat, Pax of success at home. His brot­"Hanzlik-like" spirit comes (John Paxson) sat and a lot of hers, one who played basket­from. people say I'm kind of like ball at Rollins College, and one "My brothers are the reason them, so I just work as hard as who attended Dayton, proved my personality is the way it I can. to be stiffer competition than is," he says. "I could never 
"We'll just pay our dues and his high-school opponents. beat them until I was a junior the next group will come in and Joe Frederick "I always used to play my or senior in high school, and I do it too. It would be harder to brothers and they never, ever used to take it pretty hard. do if I was the only freshman, "We're all pretty consistently let me win when I was little," "Now I always like to go but there are five of us, includ­on the Blue team and we're he says. "All I could do was home and kick their butts a ing Keith (Robinson), and all working together almost all the play as hard as I could just to little bit.'' of us aren't playing as much as time. That can only help us, so get a chance to beat them. It's Of course, he would rather we want to so we're all kind of when our time comes, it won't like when we (the Blue team) get off the bench and do the going through it together. be a shock for us." scrimmage the Gold team in same to Irish opponents. 
Sign up deadline: Friday, Feb. 6 
Jay Adoai Admos Shoe Corp. iJ Philip G. Akin Duds N' Suds =Brad Baker Tech: Time lJ Neil Salter Californ1a Closet Co. ::::::Edwin P. Bertin, Jr. Cubicomp Corp. 0 Richard Bannan Motorm1te Mfg. Inc. :::J Steve Berman R&B Inc. 0 Todd Bernstein Corporate Telecom = Sam Angus & Dan Bienenfeld Design l.ook =:J Joel Billings Strateg1c Simulations 0 Julie Brice & Bill Brice, Jr. Brice Foods Inc. = Matthew M. Brown Collegiate Group 0 Michael Brown Central Pc~!l' <::.oftware 0 Yale Brozen Access Inti. 0 KP.n Brubeck Automated Dynamics 0 Peter Burns Burns Three 0 Michael Cullina & Steven Byer Saladalley 0 Jimmy C. Calano Careertrack Inc. LJ Juan Cameron, Jr. Home Maintenance Systems 0 Steve Carb Guisepp1's Inc. 0 Debrah Charatan Bach Realty Inc. 0 Jennifer Cherney & Robert Shapiro A.H. Shapiro & Co. 0 Cece Colclazier & Jerry Colclazier Equinox Entertainment 0 Roger Conner Flowers by Roger ::: Sharon Corr R.J. Carr Naturals 0 Bob Day The Trade Arranger 0 Arlane Daguin &George W. Faison, Jr. D'Artagnon, Inc. CJ Beth Daskal Tri-State Custom Coach Inc. 0 Brett Davis Troy Nichols 0 Robert Dean II Image Design Consultants 0 Michael Dell PC'S L1m1ted ::::; Scott Deperro Aim Stuart Johnson Executive 0 Henry Network Consultarts 0 r e i f u s C o r p r a Inti. 0 Ron Kaplan Research 0 Neal 4th Annual Kaplan Graph1cs = Elinoff Neal's Cookies Denise F. Keehan Ten 
J Jimmy Enriquez Com International Inc.


¥0UNG ENTREPRENEURS
New Century Mortgage J Donald J. Keehan, Co. 0 Rocky Jr. PyroiteCoallngs ::::: Enriquez E&M Invest-Steven Prato & Brett ments 0 Bill Eplfanio $ 4 B I L L I 0 N Kings tone Kingstone II Dynamedix 0 Prato :J Steven Debbi Fields Mrs. These are our nation's top 100 young entrepreneurs. With combined KirschMouseSystems r1 e 1d s Choc o1ate revenues of over $4 btllion -theirfast growth compan1es do impact the future of c 0 r p . ..., p a u 1 Chippery :::J Joseph our nation. If you are an outstanding young entrepreneur, let us know. Th1s Klaassen Sunrise Forbes Miss Ellie's year'stop100willbeannouncedattheACEconferenceinFebruaryatChicago. Retirement Homes =: 9arbeque :::J Jeff We invite you to meet the world's future business leaders at the Phil'<osak KLB Enter-
Frankel I Love Yogurt Association of CoUodiate Entrepreneurs/ p r is~ 5 = Laurie
:= Charles L. Frazier "'6A K r i e, d 1 e r-Las t e r Ill Dig1tal Devices o Young Entrepreneurs Organmtion LKL Product1ons = 
Richard Garriott & Jacqueline Lacona &
INTERNmONAL CONVENTION
Robert Garriott Origin Barbara Leutert Lela Systems 0 William Computer Su1tors = Gates Ill Microsoft Ted Leonsis Redgate Corp. 0 Ron Grey February 26-28, 1987 0 Chicago Marriott Downtown Commun1cat1ons = Energy Enterprises 0 Young entrepreneurs. professors and students of entrepreneurship pro-John Looney &David Raymond Haldeman grams from all 50 states and 15 countnes will be part of this three-day LooneY Tar He e 1 Raymond Haldeman conference to network. share bus1ness ideas and be 1nspired by outstanding Roofing 0 Mike Pace 
Caterers 0 William speakers. & Michael Macke

TRADE SHOW
M. Haney Fu~l Tech Digital Controls Inc. ::::: 
I n c . 0 K e vi n George J. Mandes Harrington Small Health Care Tech-Business Centeri nology =: Robert Franchise America 0 The ACE Trade Show brings business to your company now and 1n the Kotich & Howard David Hedman EPI-future-achance to build a relationship with the Mure opinion leaders and role Marks Arktromcs lJ models of this generation. The Trade Show is one day only on Saturday,
0

Center, Inc. John February 28. at the convention. It provides a major mar1<et for computers and Walter Martin, Paul Herm a a The J0 h n information processing equipmen~ travel, credit cards, financial and accounting Maria t e s & A n d Y Herman Co. 0 B!Wldt services, executive products. unique innovations and many other products or Udelson Flying Foods Hibbs Legg Hibbs servicesofinteresttoyoungentrepreneurs. 0 Mark McKee International Business Pyram1d Pizza := CJ Mark Hughes Call or write: Batry Minkow llll Herbal Life 0 Mark ACE, Campus Box 147, Wichita State University Best Carpet and Furni­1 d z I k S y s t e m s U Wichita, Kansas 67208 ture Co. 0 William Solutions Plus 0 ItA (316) 689-3000 Noble William Noble Steven Jobs Apple Rare Jewels 0 Marc Computer/Next,lnc. 0 The Netwon< Oatrofsky & Sarah 
Ginnie J. Johanson ~A~~'r:-Alycia Dodd 283-2927 for ~c;:,::;;:::;::, ~ s t r o fs k Y U · S · Ginnie Johanson 0 Payphone Corp. 0 Gary Pelsach MS. Desserts Inc. 0 Brtan S. Peskin Ultrawash 0 Randall Pfeiffer & S.ndl'l Pfeiffer Genesis Electronics 0 Carol Phillips Dermasystems 0 Karen Pohn lnterpro 0 Douglas J. Ranalli Campus Publishing 0 Xavier Roberta Original Appalacian Artwork Inc. 0 John W. Rogers, Jr. Ariel Capital Management 0 Daniel P. Regenold Posterservice,lnc. 0 Michael Relchwald Brilliant Image 0 Michael Renna Michael Angelo's Gourmet Food 0 Jeffrey J. Roloff Central Data Corp. 0 Jonathan Floolcl Rooks Imports 0 Jonathan Rotenberg The Boston Computer Society 0 James R. Rusao 2nd Play Video 0 David Schlesinger Encore Books 0 Steve Schussler Juke Box 
Saturday Night 0 Michael Slewruk Hotlines 0 Pat Somera Somer's Marketing 0 Jim Stein Asian Yellow Pages 0 Jeffrey Palu Sudikoff IDB Communications Group Ltd. 0 Nick Gregory &Jim Tousignant Mirror Images Bu.sin~ Systems 0 .,..-8~~ Frank Valente Cross Valente Construction 0 Robert Vogel Consuneeh CommuniCatiOnS Inc. 0 _.._... 
~G.J~=.~::~:~i~~~~~io~~~w;:~~:'~:'~r8;a~~~:~:~~~s I I~•••, 

']I['~~4tll~.......................................................~.h-ur.s.da•y•'•F•eb•r•u•ar•y•5•,1•98•7•--p.ag•e--15 ·. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
I 8£1./M tr~ 11/J()(ff 1HIIT f'O!Nr IN 0(/~ ~tArTON5HIP WHlR€ 
I 5f((JI/t.fll% ~N& 1'H£ llKtllfle{) •61(, CIJNF€5~t7N • 
AT IINY MOMlN r 
\ 


Campus 
4:00p.m.: Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Second-Harmonic Generation Studies of Aqueous Corrosion on Electrode Sur­faces," by Dr. Bruce M. Biwer, Argonne National Laboratory, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory 
4:30 p.m.: Mathematics Colloquium, "Analytic Invariants for Algebraic! K­Theory," by Prof. Steve Hurder, Univer­sity of Illinois, 226 CCMB 
5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses Lotus 1-2-3, Part II, 108 Computing Center, limit 7; and SPF full-screen editor, 23 Comput­ing Center, limit 30. To register, call Betty 239-5604 
6:00 p.m.: Meeting, Overseas Develop­ment Network, plans will be set about World Awareness Week, CSC 
6:30 p.m.: Meeting, Hunger Clean-up, anyone interesting in helping organize, esc 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 p.m.: Movie, "One Flew Over A Cuckoo's Nest," $1.50, Engineer­ing Auditorium 
Focus On
. ,


Amer1ca s Fut re 
r f/(!Nt/1 Kt~P AKN7tt7 8/./MmJNIN &!6HTH 
6/r11P6 / 
/ 
Mark Williams 


7:00 
p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Michigan State, ACC 

7:00 
p.m.: Thursday Night Film Series, "Triumph of the Will," 1934, Black and white, 111 minutes, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 


7:30p.m.: FCA, fun and fellowship, base­ment of Stanford Hall 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Spaghetti with Italian Sauce Clam Sauce Veal Parmesan Vegetable Cheese Stuffed Peppers Grilled Bologna Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet and Gravy Pork Chow Mein Swedish Pancakes Deli Bar 
NOF!. Y()l) 
WANNA Hii.P 
CAKKY IN l'fY 
HANfWAI ccuartoN? 

ACROSS 1 Afr. land 5 Part of a tire 
10 Continent: abbr. 13 "Good Earth" 
heroine 14 Golf club 15 Casino game 16 Hero and club 18 Swenson of 
"Benson" 19 Most orderly 20 Attached 22-Bowl 24 Shoemaklng 
strip 25 Brews 28 Remedy 32 Kitchen 
appliances 33 UFO creature 34 Moon vehicle 35 Uproar 36 Weather word 37 Shut noisily 38 Lincoln or 
Ford 39 Opera by Massenet 40 "-porridge hot ... " 41 Causing 
lndlg.1atlon 43 Wine 44 Test 45 Sped 47 Put on 50 Closest 54 Command 55 Rocks con­
taining quartz 57 Sea bird 58 Not active 59 Variable star 60 Deranged 61 Parts of 
necks 62 Ger. river 
DOWN 1 The majority 2 Asian range 3 Territory 4 Needy 5 Unexpected 
developments 

01987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Right-hand 
page 7 Old letter 8 "Rock of-" 9 He Is AWOL 
10 Sea urchin 11 Jason's ship 12 Sound of 
distress 15 Monster 17 Has on 21 Heavy vehicle 23 Eng. explorer 25 Sp. city 26 Of the birds 27 Literary 
nom-de-plume 29 Indonesian 

Island 30 Twit 31 Ant old style 33 King of comedy 40 Fold 48 Antitoxins 36 Adds one's 42 Give oft 49 Actor Andrews 
two cents 43 Culminations 51 Arthurian lady 37 Landing area 46 Pianist Watts 52 Saharan on water 47 Attention 53 Autocrat 39 Streetcar getter 56 Fiber knot 


SAB presents: 
One Flew Over the AMBASSADOR ARKADY r<~~~~'. Cuckoo's Nest SHEVCHENKO 
~' a,\~ "A View from the Kremlin" 
1 ~·) EG Auditorium 
A lecture by the highest ranking Soviet official ever to defect to the West. Fri, Sat 7,9:30,12 Prizzi 's Honor $1.50 Tues, Feb.lO Bpm Seats-$2 tix at The Cellar 
Feb.lO 

Thursday, February 5,1987-page 16
SJ}orts 

Irish need overtime to top LaSalle; Pair of technical fouls provides l.ift 
By PETE GEGEN tion it was not a good call. in the overtime as he com­Assistant Sports Editor "I wasn't even saying anyth­plained about a foul called on ing to him. He could have made Simmons. Royal made both 
You could say Notre Dame that call three times in regula­ends of the one-and-one, and hit edged LaSalle on a technical­tion, yet he waited until over­the front end of the two-shot ity or two. time to do it." technical. 
Mter his club had sent the Irish forward Sean Conner, Free-throw shooting was the game into overtime tied at 57, who had been fouled by Conlin key in the Irish victory. Notre LaSalle head coach Bill on the play, Sank both the one­Dame hit 15 shots in a row "Speedy" Morris was whistled and-bonus and the two-shot before Royal finally missed one for two technical fouls in the technical. And when the Irish with 1:33 left in overtime. The extra period. Notre Dame con­got the ball after the free team finished 20-of-23 from the verted three of the four free throws, Mark Stevenson took a stripe, for a shooting throws from the technicals, nice feed from center Gary percentage of 87. and went on to win, 76-64. Voce and sank a one-handed But the main pr{)blem for the 
The first technical on Morris jumper in the lane to give Notre Irish was the one thing every­was called only 24 seconds into Dame a quick 63-57 lead. one feared coming into this the overtime period. He was Explorer forward Lionel game-a letdown. Notre Dame upset that his forward, Craig Simmons made the front end of played flat and did not come to Conlin, was called for blocking a one-and-one to narrow the life until the overtime period. on a pick, but no foul had been lead, but the Irish put it away "I thought we were a little called the previous instant for good with a nine-point flat," said Head Coach Digger when Irish guard David Rivers spurt. Phelps. "It was a great time knocked Explorer guard Rich Irish forwards Stevenson and for LaSalle to play Notre Dame Tarr to the ground on a pick. Donald Royal each made both after Sunday's game. I think He complained on the ground ends of one-and-one free mostly we were just drained. in front of the referee, and the throws, and Rivers threaded a bench technical was issued. perfect pass to Stevenson for a "Our kids played in the over­
The Observer /Robert Jones 
"How could that warrant a layup to give the Irish an 11-time. We didn't have any inten­technical?" Morris asked. 1'1 point lead. sity in the first 40 minutes. We Notre Dame three-point specialist Sean Conner (33) guns for was just talking to the man Morris then picked up his three over LaSalle center Craig Conlin in last night's Irish vic­
upstairs. I think in that .situa-second technical with 1: 24 left see EXPLORERS, pa:ge 12 tory. Pete Gegen has the details on the overtime contest at left. 
Young ND wrestlers host experienced but struggling MSU 
By STEVE MEGARGEE "I think it will be somewhat year," said McCann. "They hardships during the year, Dan Matauch in the 134-pound Sports Writer of a factor, but it should not haven't won many dual meets tonight's meet promises to in­match, and the 24-6 Boyd will mean a great deal," said of late, but they beat us pretty clude some intriguing individ­compete with the Spartans' 
In a matchup between youth McCann. "I anticipate a pretty well last year.'' ual matchups. Three members Stacy Richmond in the 142­and experience, the Notre tight meet." Injuries have forced the Irish of Notre Dame's outstanding pound match. Dame wrestling team will host Notre Dame and Michigan to limp to a 1-6 record :so far in sophomore quartet (Dave Car­the senior-dominated Michigan State met at the beginning of dual meets. Only four wrestlers lin, Jerry Durso, Pat Boyd and "We match up really well. State Spartans tonight at 7 in the season, when the Spartans in tonight's starting lineup Chris Geneser) will be facing Two of their best guys the ACC Pit. won their own Michigan State have been starting throughout three of Michigan State's top (Matauch and Richmond) are 
While the Irish will start four Invitational, with the Irish the season, and Notre Dame wrestlers. matched up with two of our best sophomores and three fresh­placing second. Since that still has not fully recovered. kids (Durso and Boyd)," said men, in contrast to the Spar­time, both teams have fallen Senior Tom Ryan is sidelined In the 126-pound match, Car­McCann. "Last year, they both tans' five seniors, Head CDach upon hard times in dual meets. with sore cartilage in his ribs, lin will face Brian Smith. Car­split their two matches." Fran McCann insists experi­"They're going through and his status for this lin and Smith have split their Notre Dame continues its ence should not make not too transition. They have a new weekend's meet with Central two previous matches. Durso, homestand against Central much of a difference in the coach, and they won some big Michigan is still uncertain. who currently sports a 23-4 Michigan on Sunday at 2 p.m. meet. tournaments early in the Despite both teams' record, meets all-American in the ACC Pit. 
Conner finishes sweep, Brings Cup to America 
Associated Press through a flotilla of boats that flooded the harbor. More than 
FREMANTLE, Australia -three years ago, Conner made The America's Cup is a similar but very different America's again, and Dennis trip. Conner now can be remem­It was early evening on Sept. bered as the first man to regain 26, 1983, when he stood aboard the Cup instead of the first to Liberty in the darkness of the lose it. Newport, R.I., waterfront as 
"It's a great moment for his beaten boat came back America, a great moment for from the course, the American the Stars & Stripes team," Con­flag flying at half -staff from his ner said after guiding the 12-mast. meter yacht Stars & Stripes Australia II had just ended past Kookaburra III Wednes­sport's longest winning streak day and completing a 4-0 sweep -the 132-year American for sailing's most prized monopoly on the symbol of trophy. sailing supremacy. Conner be­
"And a great moment for came the first U.S. skipper to Dennis Conner.'' lose the Cup, and it filled him 
His blue-hulled boat with the with determination to make the red-and-white lettering won the trophy's stay Down Under a final race easily, by one min­short one. ute, 59 seconds. The gunshot He undertook a $20 million signifying that Stars & Stripes campaign to bring the Cup had crossed the finish line, its back, this time sailing for the huge American flag waving, San Diego Yacht Club rather was the opening signal for the than the New York Yacht Club, victory celebration. which had held the Cup for 
A solid mass of jubiliant those 132 years.Dennis Conner skippered U.S. 12-meter yacht winning the final race yesterday. A related spectators lined the shore, Three new boats were built. 
Stars & Stripes to a clean sweep of Australia story appears at right. shouting and smiling as the re­to bring the America's Cup back to America, turning conquerers weaved see AMERICA, page 14 
., 








