---------~------------------------~--------------------------~~---­

Reagan scheduled to meet with panel 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A commis­sion investigating U.S. arms sales to Iran and National Se­curity Council operations on Wednesday nailed down an ap­pointment with President Reagan and won three more weeks to finish its work. 
While the panel headed by former Sen. John Tower inter­viewed former President Jimmy Carter in Plains, Ga., White House spokesman Larry Speakes revealed that Reagan will meet with the commission next Monday. 
Speakes said Reagan is ex­pected to review White House files with counsel Peter J. Wal­lison before the session with Tower and two other panel members, former Secretary of 
State Edmund S. Muskie and 
former  national  security  ad­ 
viser Brent Scowcroft.  
Reagan is  expected  to  an­ 

swer panelists' questions a~out his recollections of how the pro­gram of clandestine arms sales program transpired, Speakes said. 
The three-member board was named by the president on Dec. 1 -less than a week after Attorney General Edwin Meese III revealed that some proceeds from the arms sales had been diverted to Nicaraguan rebels. It was di­rected to report by Jan. 29 on the role of the National Secur­ity Council staff in carrying out sensitive diplomatic and intel­ligence missions such as the se­cret arms deals. 
ND Credit Union robbed 
By MARK PANKOWSKI of money, which he carried in News Editor a bag. City officers and a canine 
South Bend police were con­unit were sent to the scene, said tinuing their investigation police. They attempted to track Wednesday into Tuesday after­the suspect, but did not find noon's armed robbery of the him. West Side branch of the Notre Dame Credit Union. The robber was described as 
Police said a man armed a black man in his 20s, 5-feet-10 with a small handgun entered and weighing 150 pounds, the credit union, located at 3509 police said. 
W. Sample St., at 4:55p.m. He had a mustache and was 
He pointed the gun at a teller wearing a black stocking cap, and demanded money, police an Army jacket and blue jeans. said. The rob her then fled north Police said they have no with an undPtermined amount suspects in the case. 


P&GRep. talks about Diaper Race 
By JIM RILEY Assistant News Editor 
The story of Pampers turnaround, "The Great Diaper Race," was pre­sented by Richard Nicolosi, vice president of the paper products division of Proctor and Gamble. 
Nicolosi gave an hour-long presentation which com­bined lecture with slides and videotapes Wednesday night before a filled auditorium at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Nicolosi said he wanted to 
"share perspectives and un­
derstandings about what the 
business world is like so you 
can make better decisions." 
The Notre Dame graduate 
said when he was coming out 
of school into the real world, 
it was "like walking into a 
black box." 
Approximately a dozen 
representatives from P&G 
were on hand to talk with in­
terested students at a recep­
tion following the presenta­
tion. 
Nicolosi said he was inter­
ested in visiting Notre Dame 
because "When I went from 
Notre Dame to Proctor and 
Gamble, there was no cul­
ture shock. The alignment of 
values ... is very good." 
Nicolosi's vehicle for 
presenting P&G was a case 
study of the revamping of 
the P&G product Pampers 
see DIAPERS, page 3 


Police, ND/SMC Security work to combat drunk driving 
Editor's Note: These articles mark the second part of a three-part series examining the issues and incidents of drunk driving in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities. 
By MARY HEILMANN and CHRIS BEDNARSKI Assistant News Editors 
It is a typical Friday night at the South Bend police depart­ment's traffic desk. A call comes in. 
There has been an accident, and an accident investigation car is requested. 
When the police officer ar­rives at the scene of the acci-1dent, he determines there is probable cause that the vehi­cle's driver may have been driving under the influence of alcohol. 
Mter filling out a Probable Cause Mfadavit, the policeman offers the driver a breathalizer test, a procedure the state of Indiana requires. If the driver refuses, his oper­ator's license may be suspended for one year. 
The driver agrees to the test, and he is driven to the county jail, where the test is adminis­tered. 
The test is positive; the driver has a blood-alcohol level higher than .10 percent. He is booked, fingerprinted, 

Prosecutor reviews DUI legal proceedings 
By MARY HEILMANN Assistant News Editor 
When a student is arrested for drunk driving, the initial media coverage of the incident adequately describes the ar­rest and booking process. But what happens after bail is posted, when the alleged of­fender's case is entrusted to the legal system? 
"Within a very few days after the person has been arrested, his case reaches my desk," said Deputy Prosecutor Brian Steinke of the Saint Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. 
"I review all the paperwork on DUis; my principal purpose is to screen those that warrant felony prosecution and sepa­rate these cases from mis­demeanors," he added. 
Steinke said that deternim­ing a felony from a mis­demeanor requires evaluation on three criteria: whether serious injury resulted from the DUI violation, whether the violation was a second offense, and whether it occurred while the driver's operator's license was already suspended for habitual traffic offenses. 
Describing the Dec. 6 inci­dent which resulted in the 
see LEGALITY, page 3 
photographed for a mugshot and placed in a jail cell. 
It is a scenario which has be­come familiar to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community over the past several months. 
Three Notre Dame students were arrested in separate drunk-driving incidents last se-
Drunk Driving 
and· ND/SMC 

mester, all of which involved accident victims. In one case, the victim required extensive hospitalization for broken up­per and lower jaws; in the other two, the victim died the next day from th1; injuries he suffered. 
"I think it's human nature that ifdrinking isn't allowed on campus, then naturally there will be people going off campus to local taverns to drink legal­ly, or illegally as the case may be," said Lieutenant Larry Blume of the South Bend Police Department's traffic depart­ment. 
"It's a shame that it has to be that way, but if they're off campus, the fact is that in out society they will be using a car. And that might mean they will be driving under the influence of alcohol," Blume added. 
It is a phenomena that Blume encounters daily in his position with South Bend's Alcohol Safety Awareness Program (ASAP), a federally-funded program under the auspices of the Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving. 
Notre Dame Security Direc­tor Rex Rakow was appointed head of the Task Force this month, Blume said. 
The program, which has been in effect for four years, has provided the city of South Bend with $20,000 each year to combat the problem of drunk driving, Blume said. 
see POLICE, page 3 

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 2 



In Brief 

Theodore's will close at 2 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays instead of 3 a.m., said Vince Willis, club manager. Willis said the Office of Student Activities issued the order because of damage to the LaFortune Student Center, where the club is located. Theodore's itself has not been damaged recently, but club patrons have been blamed for the damage to LaFortune's first floor, he said. 
-The Observer 

Three Texas Tech students were arrested and charged with attempted capital murder of a police officer. The incident occured when the officer tried to break up a fight between the suspects, who allegedly knocked the officer to the ground and began beating him. -The Observer 
A plan to give away condoms to University of Iowa students during a program of birth control has been halted by school officials, who said the students should buy them at stores in the area. The program, attended by approximately 20 male and female students, went on as scheduled. -The Observer 
The Fictional "Mr. Right" is nurturing and affectionate with children, willing to do an equal share of housework and doesn't feel threatened by an educated woman, reports a survey of female freshmen at The Uni­versity of Kentucky. The annual survey, used to gauge the importance of various characteristics when choosing a husband, polls female freshmen in an introductory fam­ily studies class. -The Observer 
Rock 'n' roll pioneers were honored Wednesday Night in New York with a ceremony to induct them into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, including Aretha Franklin, the first woman voted in. Joining the "Queen of Soul" as honorees were The Coasters, Eddie Cochran, Bo Diddley, Marvin Gaye, Bill Haley, B.B. King, Clyde McPhatter, Ricky Nelson, and Roy Orbison. 

Of Interest 
Tickets for the 1987 Keenan Revue will be distributed free of charge to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on Friday. Students can receive one ticket by presenting an ID, with a maximum of two ID's allowed per person. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 1 p.m. inside Gate 3 of the ACC. No lines may form prior to noon. Saint Mary's students will get their oppor­tunity at 4:30p.m. inside O'Laughlin Auditorium with no lines forming before 3:30 p.m. The nth annual Keenan Revue will open in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Jan. 29th with additional peformances slated for Jan. 30, and Jan. 
31. Each show will begin at 7:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs,can be submitted at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
Think blue skies ... think sunny ... think 
warm ... now think South Bend. Today 
there is a 60 percent chance of light snow with a high of 20 to 25. Tonite expect much colder temperatures and a chance of snow, mainly late at night with some accumulation possible. Low near 5 above. Bitterly cold and windy Friday with a 60 percent chance of snow with 
• additional accumulation possible. High 

5 to 10 above. -Associated Press 


The Obser:ver 
Deolgn Editor ...................... Rob Luxem Deolgn Alolol.llnt ................. Cathy Stacy Layoat starr........................... Bob White TypeaeUer ............................. Pat Clark .................................. Becky Gunderman Newo Ec!Unr.................. Ann Kaltenback Cnpy Editor ..................... Rachel Jarosh 8pnr11 Cnpy Editor.......... Marty Strasen Vlewpnlnt Cnpy Editor... Alison Pivonka 

Vlewpnlnt Layout............. Alice Groners Accent Copy Editor.......... Tracy Fetters Accent Laynut............. Katy Kronenberg Typlot.. ............................ ... Colleen Foy NO Day Editor .................. Jane Krovcik SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Dealgn ........................... Fred Nelson Photographer ....................... Brian Mast 
The Oboernr (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Auoclated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Reverse culture shock experienced upon return to ND from abroad 
Mter six hours on a cramped but not too un­comfortable train you find yourself at the end of the line, a stranger in a strange train station. A long search of the timetables confirms your worst fears as you realize there are no more trains out of here until 5:10a.m. You camp out in the waiting room only to be thrown out on the street -they're closing the station for the night. You have no local money and no place to sleep. 
Thank God it's not snowing. 
None of the hotels seem to be closed. Since you don't see any signs for American Express or MasterCard, it doesn't really matter. The warmest place you can find is a bus platform, so it's off to sleep, only to be woken up by a multilingual drunk who asks (after two tries in French and Italian) "How's life?" 
You put your head in your hands and moan. 
Welcome to culture shock, the subject of today's column. It's not that bad at first, but it tends to grow on you like some kind of fungus. The first week's not too bad-everything is new and exciting and different. But after a few days of no McDonald's, no newspapers, no English, you tend to get sick of it all. 
People look a little ill when you try to tell them you got sick of traveling around Europe after a semester in London. You really do, though. Even if there is enough money and enough time, there just isn't enough patience. There are only so many different languages you can put up with, so many different train stations you can endure. But the worst is not over. 
Far worse than the culture shock of going, though, is the "reverse shock" of coming back. At least when you leave America for a foreign country, you expect something a little different. You're supposed to be happy coming home. 
And you are, kind of. 
But after thinking "Wow, these people on the plane are obnoxious," only to realize that they are fellow Americans, after wishing for the hundredth time for a pint of Guinness or some good bratwurst or a decent new play in town, after going to your eleventh dorm party in a week and realizing that you are sick to death of them, perhaps you're not so glad to get back. 
It's different from the change all us students undergo when we leave home for school. Home isn't home anymore, but Notre Dame and Saint Mary's become our homes. Mter reverse cul­ture shock, you don't really have a home. The 
Mark Mclaughlin 
Production Project Manager 



campus isn't quite the same anymore. Even the people have changed, you most of all. And you can't go back to London, or Angers, or Rome. 
If you happen to have lived in California you might have some idea of what returning foreign study students go through. It's a lot like an earthquake, coming back. Something you thought was rock solid and unchanging, some­thing that you lean on in a fundamental way, all of a sudden picks you up, bounces you around, and throws you down to the ground. Then it stops and goes back to what it was, almost. And of course your mind knows that things haven't changed all that much, and that you can still depend on the ground. But it's never quite the same. 
So the next time you see someone wearing mostly black and wishing for a pint of Guinness, you'll know how badly he wants it. And you'll also know why he turns down your offer of Old Milwaukee. 

DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KIU A FRIENDSHIR 

Do you need $$$$$? 
Are you good with computers? 

then... 


Student Government is looking for YOU! 
The Student Government Treasurer's Office is seeking an indi­vidual who will automate our accounting system. You would be responsible for developing a program to maintain records and generate financial statements of all student activity fee trans­actions. 
See 'Becca or Chris for additional info and application in the Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor La Fortune 12-4 Mon-Fri. 

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 3 
Police 
continuedfrom page 1 
"We use some of the money to hire off-duty police officers to work the streets for DUI vi­olations.." 
Alcohol-awareness educa­tion constitutes another part of the program, Blume explained, saying two officers speak at the local high schools, an officer speaks at Notre Dame, and elementary-school children hear a police presentation which touches on the problems of driving under the influence of alcohol. 
"We're great believers in the designated driver program. If someone wants to get bombed one night, then there should be someone designated not to drink and to drive them home:' 
Blume said the South Bend Police Department and Notre Dame Security have cooperated in the past on ef­
forts  to  eliminate the  drunk  
driving  problem,  and  main­ 
tained that "if anyone  (from  

Security) calls and asks for a 
speaker or some films, we'd be happy to help." 
He noted, however, that Notre Dame Security is the campus's own police depart­ment and thus responsible for educating the Notre Dame community. 
According to a Security offi­cer, Notre Dame Security will continue to address this respon­sibility this semester through the alcohol-awareness pro­gram it began before Christmas break. He said next week Security officers, along with an officer from the In­diana State Police, will visit the Notre Dame campus to outline and discuss Indiana's drunk­driving laws. 
In addition to a slide presentation about alcohol and driving, the officers will dem­onstrate the effects of alcohol consumption on student volun­teers, he said. 
During the demonstration, two volunteers will be allowed to raise their blood-alcohol con­tent to near .10 percent, the level at which one is legally in­toxicated in the state of In­diana. 

lJou cannnt sfu:l.kg li.ands with a cLosed. fist -Indira Gandhi 



REACH OUT!! 

Social Concerns Festival 
DISPLAYS, REFRESHmEnTS AnD EnTERTAinmEnT 
Thursday, January 22 
6:30-9:00 

Center for Social Concerns 
AN INFORMAL EVENING AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS TO LEARN MORE 
SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION 
OPPORTUNITIES ON THE NOTRE OAME 
ANO ST. MARV'S CAMPUSES ANO IN 
THE COMMUNITV THERE WILL BE 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THROUGHOUT 
THE EVENING ANO PLENTV OF 
REFRESHMENTS. COME AND ENJOVII 
SEE WHAT'S GOING ONI 
According to Security, the of­ficers will then administer field sobriety tests to the students. This will show the effects of drinking on one's capacity to drive, he said. 
Following the demonstra­tion, the officers will remain with the students until their al­cohol level returns to normal, he said. 
Notre Dame junior Michael Cogswell was struck and killed by a drunk driver on the Saint Mary's campus last semester. Saint Mary's Security Director Richard Chlebek said his or­ganization will not implement any new educational policies at Saint Mary's. 
As in the past, if the accident is relatively minor --resulting in little damage and no injuries --then Saint Mary's Security will report the incident only to the College's administration, Chlebek said. 
If the accident is serious, however, or if Security suspects alcohol is involved, the accident will be reported to the Saint Joseph County Sheriff's Department, he added. 
Although both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have spon­sored numerous alcohol-


Legality 
continuedfrom page 1 
death of Notre Dame junior Mike Cogswell, Steinke said the paperwork against the driver "initially came in as a mis­demeanor DUI. 
"When a death became in­volved, we felt a misdemeanor charge was inappropriate and immediately put a halt to the processing of that charge. We awareness programs, Chlebek said he doesn't think drunk driving will ever be totally eliminated at the two schools. 
"There is only so much you can do when you're dealing with young adults to make them aware," Chlebek said. "I don't think we'll ever eliminate the drunk driving problem in this country." 
then began the paperwork for a felony charge," Steinke ex­plained. 
The felony charge in that case was a Class C felony, defined as a DUI causing death, Steinke said, adding that the presumptive penalty for such an offense is five years in prison, with a fine as high as $10,000. 
Incidents which involve in­jury but not death, designated as Class D felonies, have a two­year average penalty, to which the judge can add two years or subtract one year, Steinke said. Fines for Class D felonies can be as high as $10,000. 
If the prosecutor's office rules the case a misdemeanor, they designate it either a Class A DUI, which requires driver intoxication, or a Class C DUI, which requires a .10 blood al­cohol content, but does not con­note intoxication, Steinke said. 
Class A DUis are punishable by a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a $5,000 fine. Class C misdemeanors carry a penalty of 60 days in jail and a $500 fine. 
"All DUis we're talking about here, whether felonies or misdemeanors, have license suspensions," Steinke stressed. 
Once the prosecutor's office has decided on a classification, the case can go to either a Grand Jury -six citizens who hear testimony and determine whether there is basis for filing a charge -or the charge will be filed on the prosecutor's own volition. 
"We then send the formal paperwork over to the judge, who reviews the information for proper form and the Af­fadavit for Probable Cause. If the judge signs the informa­tion, he sets bond and signs an arrest warrant," Steinke said. Authorities then arrest the charged individual. 
The defendant has two hearings before the formal tri­al, Steinke said, one to read the charges and one to formally recognize his counsel. At this time, the judge sets a trial date "typically two months away," Steinke added. 
Steinke said felony charges involve a minimum two-day trial, because they require the selection of a 12-person jury. When felony charges are filed, a jury trial is automatically provided unless the defendant requests a bench trial, Steinke said. 
In cases classified as simple misdemeanors, he added, the normal route is a bench trial. 
\-JEll LOOKING FOR 1\ fE\.1 COOt> ld011IN " ./  
tF YOU ARE INTf~ESTED IN SINGoiNGo WITH  
lol US K'll~ C:lt~ f.r.l!=_IJSES • lliE WOMEN'S CHOI~ OF NOTI\E DAME  
I" CAL.L. ZH·F/IDJfOR.  
CAL.L. niE' DfPI<IlT1'1ENT Of MUSIC  



Diapers 
continuedfrom page 1 
after it started to lose market share. Using video clips, he showed how the brand manage­ment team at P&G went about completely redesigning Pampers. He said they gutted their entire production capacity in what he called an "unprecedented move." They also had to create an industry to supply one of the materials in the new "ultra Pampers." 
He also talked about the thought and effort that went into designing new diaper fea­tures and new production equipment, as well as the ways "ultra Pampers" were promoted. 
Nicolosi also attended a luncheon and spoke to a mar­keting class. 
For those wanting to volunteer for the 
Shelter for the Homeless 
There will be an opportunity to sign-up to do so TONIGHT 6:30-8 pm at the CSC. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday nites are available for students. Teams preferred. Unable to make 
I"t?. Call Lynn Scott 259-5770, evenings 
Themost 
demandlng, 
chall~ 
enljghtening; 
nonrous

&Af!t;-'· ' 
sa

diffiCqlt,. 
rewaril;ft~
~7l ting~Ab' d
mouva an 
excttingcourse 
youcantake 
incoDege. 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC CORPS 
Interested? Call Capt. Domingo 239-6264 
The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 4 
A variety of groups to be at CSC Festival 
By CARl MARTINEZ 
News Staff 
Approximately 30 to 35 dif­ferent group agencies will be represented at the Social Concerns Festival tonight in the multipurpose room at the Center for Social Con­cerns, .according to Justice and Peace Coordinator Dan Keusal. 
"I encourage people, both those who haven't been ex­posed to social concerns to come out and meet some of the groups to find out what the center is all about and to ask yourself if there is any way you can become in­volved," said Keusal. 
The Activities Night will be run like an open house, he said, both very informal, yet very informational. He said each group will have their own table displaying their program for recruit­ment. 
"We are not here to create a need, we're here to answer needs that are already there," said Keusal, who is chairing the event along with Kathy Royer, social and service action coordina­

tor, and student committee 
members. 
The festival, scheduled for 
6:30 to 9, is open to all stu­dents and community mem­bers, Keusal said. "The eligibility rule for participa­tion in these programs is in­terest." He added, "Many students are willing to use their personal time to be­come involved and this is good ... an important and healthy sign of what educa­tion does for you." 
The festival, he said, will feature both campus and South Bend groups, includ­ing the Neighborhood Study Help Program, the Council for the Mentally Retarded, Logan Center and others. 
The Center, according to Keusal, is making an extra special effort to concentrate on the various groups open to students. The main con­cern, he said, is to let people know they are welcome at anytime, not just tonight. 
Keusal said the center has had previous successful ac­tivities nights and a good turnout is expected for this year as well. 
Professor looks at Catholic, intellectual life 
By KAREN WEBB Copy Editor 
"Faith and reason are not ad­versaries," Dr. Terence Mar­tin said at a lecture Wednesday at Saint Mary's, addressing the question of the compatability between the Catholic and the intellectual community. 
The lecture, titled "The Cath­olic Experience and the Intel­lectual Life," was the first in a series offered by the Center for Spirituality. 
According to Martin, intel­lectuallife should reflect life in a community which seeks to be one, holy, catholic and apos­tolic. "Catholic intellectual life is characterized by committ­ments to integration or com­pleteness, to practical trans­formation or change, to serious and fruitful dialogue, and to lis­tening to the wisdom of the classics," he said. 
"Catholic thinking affirms at least some continuity between the world as it actually is and the world as it ought to be," he said. This sacramental view of the world is the difference be­tween the intellectual and the Catholic intellectual, Martin said. 
"The experience of living in a community which wants to be catholic (or universal) calls for a thinking which is care­fully trained in the art of dialogue... A holy community mandates an intellectual policy of conversation," Martin said. 
"What distinguishes the in­tellectual life from other forms of life is how we (intellectuals) practice the social art of con­versation," he said. 
"I have found the Catholic communities in which I live to be a place where certain very important ideals for living and working together are kept alive," he said. Nurturing com­monality and solidarity are marks of the Catholic intellec­tual world, Martin said. 
Martin also discussed the im­portance of classical works to the apostolic tradition of the Catholic church. 
"The intellectual life lived in keeping with such an ideal in­volves a kind of thinking which is firmly rooted in the clas­sics." Martin said. According to Martin, classic texts are still educators because they affect readers and their perceptions of the world. 
Dr. Martin is an assistant professor of theology at Saint Mary's. 


Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 


For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219·239·6385 

Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 
++++++++++++++++++++++ 
+ + + 1987 AN TOSTAL+ : EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: 
+Applications for all positions (except Chairman)+ + are available this week at the + + Student Activities Board Office, + 
+ 2nd Floor LaFortune.+ 
:!: Completed applications are due+ T Friday, January, 23rdby 5:00 p.m.+
+· + 
+++++++++++++++++~t+++ 
++++++++++++++++++++++ 
program In the growing field of compensation and benefits-Is now considering applicants for 1987-1988 summer Internship opportun­Ities. Career opportunities In this area are vast; they Include posi­tions In Accountancy, Communications, Computer Science. Human Resources, Insurance, Investments, Law, Marketing, Consulting, etc. 
Successful candidates work In full-time paid positions with firms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educational seminars In Chicago during the academic year. Post. tlons are available primarily In Chicago. Milwaukee, Cleveland, 
and Rochester, N.Y. 
LF. r.t .... •ls for the energetic sophomore seeking to channel academic excellence toward specific career goals. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. Deadline for application Is Jan. 30. 
Additional information: ,and applications are available from: 
ear••-dPlac••••t s.mc­
JI..ol'laiUiwuy 
The lntomatlonal Foundation olEmployw Bendt l'lllnolo • ~MM~proftt edualtlonaiOfllllnlullon. 
Accent 
Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 5 

ascot to return? 
partment along with Layden saw NOREEN O'CONNOR the potential of an Irish terrier features writer as a mascot. A succession of Clashmore Mikes lived from Unbeknownst to most fans of 19.35 through the '40s, '50s and the Fightin' Irish, the team mas­'60s. They posed for pictures in cot has not always been the Domes, football programs and trademark leprechaun. In the newspapers; some even had early days of Notre Dame's his­their own columns in football tory, the mascot was the Irish ter­programs of the 1930s. Several rier, and efforts by a Notre Dame programs had the terrier on the supporter to reinstate this tradi­front. Then in the late 1960s tion have recently failed. Clashmore Mike Ill faded away; 
No one knows for sure why the nobody seems to know why. old tradition faded in favor of the All the Ciashmore Mikes were leprechaun, but how soon some highly educated dogs, "canines forget that the original mascot with Notre Dame pedigrees," as of Notre Dame was the Irish ter­South Bend Tribune sports col­rier. Just ask any of the alumni umnist Bill Gleason has des­from the 1930s through the cribed them. 
1960s, and they'll tell you about In her efforts, Andre has writ­a spunky Irish terrier named ten to both Theodore M. Hes­Clashmore Mike. Of course, burgh and Fr. Edmund P. Joyce. Clashmore Mike has been gone She has more than 3500 signa­for quite some time, but his tures from 48 states, the District memory is present in the hearts of Columbia and eight countries of those former Notre Dame stu­as well as endorsements from dents who had the pleasure of such prominent people as ex­seeing him out on the sidelines. mayor of Chicago, Jane Byrne; 
The first Irish terrier mascot actor, Burgess Meredith; sports Brick Top Shaun Rhu, was pre­columnist, Bill Gleason; ND full sented to Knute Rockne in 1930 back '60,'6 I.'62, Mike Lind;and by Charles Otis of Cleveland. doner of the first Irish Terrier, Sources have shown that the ter­Queenie Otis-Hanna, just to rier was acquired some time name a few. before the Nov. 8, 1930, football "Coach Leahy saw to it that game with the University ofPenn­Mike was trained to run into the 
sylvania. Perhaps this terrier field, on the secret command, to brought with him the "luck of the delay the game when we needed Irish" because Notre Dame won an extra time out. Of course we that game 60 to 20. never used the 'secret play.' " Very little is known about the On opening day of fall practice 
mascot from 1930-35. In the Ciashmore Mike, along with all summer of 1935, however, his­of the fooball players, would suit tory of the mascot resurfaces. up and pose for pictures. 

"Clashmore Mike" In his best form. 
Robert Cahill, a retired ticket One could never say that the manager in the athletic depart­Irish terrier isn't a spunky canine, Another mark of the Irish ter­One person who is trying to mascot from the lams Company ment was quoted as saying that after all, he has a way of leaving rier is stili present today and can revive the tradition of long ago of Cleveland, Ohio; mascot ex­he remembers personally pick­his mark on Notre Dame and the be seen when one looks at the is Marge Andre, an active mem­penses for life from Westminister 
ing up an Irish terrier puppy at fans no matter where he went. If east wall of Alumni Hail. Etched ber of the Irish Terrier Club of Kennel Club of New York City; coach Terry Brennan were stili within the structure of that wall Chicago. She resides in Glen­and free lodging from La Costa
the train station. Art Weinrich, a 1922 Notre Dame Alumnus, gave around he would say that Clash­is the side profile of the Irish ter­wood, II., and has devoted a lot Hotel and Spa in Carlsbad, Cali­
rier; just a another example that of her time to researching and fornia.
the dog as a gift to Elmer Layden more Mike really did leave his the terrier was part of the Uni­campaigning for the reinstate­With all of her efforts behind
who was the football coach. The mark on ND, or rather the '67 Irish Football Season Banner' versity and that even though the ment of the Irish terrier as one the reinstatement of the Irish ter­
new mascot was named Mike which was prepared by the dog has been gone for some of the mascots of Notre Dame. rier as a mascot of Notre Dame, 
after the coach's younger bro­publicity department to herald time his mememory will survive Andre feels that the time is Andre does not feel that the ter­
ther. right to bring back some Notre rier should replace the leprec­Dame enthusiasm. This could be haun but rather they should rep­achieved by bringing back the resent Notre Dame together. traditional mascot. After all, After all concludes Andre, Irish states Andre, there are many uni­legend has It that the leprechaun versities with proud acedemic and the Irish terrier are one and and athletic traditions such as the same spirit. Only after a Yale with their bull dog, U.S.C. physical transformation or with their Trojan horse, L.S.U. metamorphosis can humans with their tiger, and Airforce with identify the physical form of a their falcon. These mascots take leprechaun because in the part in sporting and nonsporting corpse of each and every Irish events. One can see how impor­terrier is the soul of a leprec­tant a mascot can be to the stu­haun. That marvelous and mis­dent body and the installation of chievous Irish fairy is resident in spirit and pride that comes from the body of an Irish terrier until a representitive mascot. Andre such time as a little leprechaun uses the example ofthe Yale bul­body becomes available. The ldog which is so popular that It reason for this is that there are leads the graduates to com­more leprechaun spirits than mencement. As Andre has there are little bodies to hold stated, the mascot can't win foot­them. Andre says to look long ball games, but the spirit which and hard Into the eyes ofthe Irish keeps the tradition of the school terrier and you'll see someone mascot is a necessary ingredient looking out at you, there is a in any successful program. twinkle and magic which is pure Along with the endorsements Irish. People watch dogs. Irish which Andre has received, the terriers are the only dogs who new mascot would be donated watch people. by Ken Andre Jr.,'56 and Ken Andre's efforts to reinstate the Andre Ill,'87. From the following Irish terrier mascot have come she has received more than just to an end, however. In December signatures. She has been the athletic department voted to promised a free supply of food keep the leprechaun as the sole for the life of the Irish terrier mascot of Notre Dame athletics. 


~------------­

"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________T-hurs-day,-Janu~ary2-2,198~7-pa~ge6 
Reminder of Notre Dame discovered miles away 
ACTlJIIU't THE (.055 ff'S NOT 
RICK, YOf/ AlM05T I f)()U!JT IT's
It/lilA... I 5EE 

ME 7HCtEA$1"OF IT ALJUAY5 
NEVER GETHIM! 7HATOFTEN. tNTER
IUHAT >WMEAN. 

W!'~JIJ5TNOT~-7HAT8AJ). 
NIN& TIMES OUT BfS//JfS. "PARENTING,
a4YCARCIS 

UH-OH...
IN6 THIS KIP! WET 1'1-f' 6tJ17CN 
OF TEN. IM THt I<EEPING FOVR.TH 0
T.41<JN6 A 816 

a4Y5 I OON7PICJ< HIMATF()(JR.. 
ON& WHO HA5 70 Q(JAR.TER."
BITE. I 

H/MIP/JNTI/...9/X! I 
IW5HHOM&. I 
I 
Quote of the day 

"Ignorance of the law excuses no man; not that all men know the law, but because 'tis an excuse every man will plead, and no man can tell how to refute him." 
John Seldon 
(1584-1654) "Law" 

Over Christmas break, I found a home away from the dome. 
I was working part-time at the Finger Lakes Times, where I had interned over the summer, when I learned about this piece of Notre Dame heaven. It began innocently enough over lunch at the Pumpernickel restaurant in Geneva with two reporters from the Times, Carolyn Foster and Jean Jones. 
Eric Bergamo 
here's to future days 

"We should have lunch over at the Cedar Inn," Carolyn told me, "there's all this Notre Dame memorabilia there." 
Sounds interesting, I thought. And so I said that lunch at the Cedar Inn would be fine with me. I had heard of the Cedar Inn before from other people and I wanted to see this place for myself. 
Two days later, as the day's edition of the Times started to roll off the presses in the back of the building, I headed up to Beacon Hill in Geneva to meet the others at the Cedar Inn. I was the first one to arrive to the innocuous white clapboard building. For some reason, I had expected it to be classier than that. 
I parked the car in the parking lot and went inside. In the entrance there was a large painting of the Notre Dame leprechaun. I felt that I had come to the right place as I waited for Carolyn and Jean to get there from the office. 
The decor inside was strictly that of the small-town tavern; bar, barstools, tables. But behind the bar and on the walls was what could be classified as neo-classical Notre Dame. 
There was a sign with the words "Notre Dame Lane" in blue and gold. A sign for Notre Dame lacrosse. Drawings of Knute Rockne, George Gipp, The Four Horsemen, Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian and Father Hesburgh hung from the wall along with numerous Notre Dame pennants. There were other Irish souvenirs on the shelves, even of those "Domer on Board" signs that hang from the inside of car windows. 
Near the top of the wall was a green board with all the years that Notre Dame had been national champions painted in white. Hopefully, there will be another year to paint in underneath the '77 on that board in the near future. 
We were joined at lunch by Don Had­ley, my managing editor who always asks me "Bergamo, do you have some­thing to do?", Tom Rickey, one of the copy editors and Doris Wolf, another reporter at the Times. From time to time I was called on to identify whose pictures were up on the wall. "Oh, that's Ara, he lead the Irish to the na-
P.O.BoxQ 
tional championship in 1966 and 1973" or "That's Father Hesburgh, he's the president of Notre Dame." 
It all reminded me that even though I was some 600 miles away from the university I love, I never really left Notre Dame. There are always things around that will remind of the Golden Dome. 
Even the shirts for the Cedar Inn had the Notre Dame fighting leprechaun on them. One more reminder of Notre Dame and its almost worldwide fame. 
I'll have to buy one of those the next time I'm home on break. Eric M. Bergamo is a junior govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Transfer urges student to find fulfilling place 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to a letter written by John Schloegel. In his letter, Schloegel expressed his ob­vious disillusionment with Notre Dame concluding that he may have made the wrong decision in deciding to attend this university. Although my opinion of this school is a great deal more positive than his, I think I know how he is feeling. I've been in his shoes before, but I did something about it -I trans­ferred to Notre Dame. 
When I graduated from high school, I had virtually no idea about where I wanted to go to college. I just per­functorily looked at a few schools that sounded good and settled into the one that sounded best. Soon, my hastiness caught up with me as I realized (much to my dismay) that I was not happy with my choice. After moping around for a semester or two I decided to do something to change my situation. I sat down, looked at my options, and decided to apply to some other schools. This time, though, I did some research and decided to apply to the schools I thought were best for me, instead of those that simply "sounded good." Well, here I am, and I couldn't be hap­pier. I can honestly look back and say 
Trudeau 

with conviction that I made the right decision. I changed my situation while I still could. 
Mr. Schloegel, I'm really sorry that you are unhappy here at Notre Dame, but, by the same token, if you feel that you've done your best to fit in here, you're a fool if you stay. Try to stick it out for the rest of the year, and then, if you still feel the same way, consider making a transfer. You'll be doing yourself a favor and you'll also be opening up a spot for someone who 
genuinely  wants  to  come  to  Notre  
Dame.  
Matt Sitzer  
Off-Campus  

Students feeling loss must recall positives 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is directed toward the friends of Mike Cogswell. I didn't know him but I understand what all of you are going through. My former room­mate died my sophomore year. I hurt a lot, because I cared for him quite a lot. Why him and not me? He was such a great person. He always wore a smile and never had a bad word to say about anyone. From what I've heard this week, this sounds a lot like a description of Mike. You must look at those qualities and try to express them more in your own lives. You all had the op­portunity to know Mike and see these qualities. I know you feel sad, because this brings back very sad memories for me, but see if you can see the good in all this. Look back and remember Mike smiling and making you smile and feel glad that you got a chance to know him. 
Chris Guarnotta Off-Campus 
President's actions go against people's will 
Dear Editor: 

It is difficult to know whether Joe Murphy's editorial on January 15 about our president's actions is merely cyni­cal, or rather myopic and completely without principle. The "key question" 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference.Write to P.O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
Doonesbury 
as he puts it, regarding current affairs in Washington is "whether the situation warranted the use of such powers as the president decided to use." Yet it is clear from his presentation that "war­ranted" simply means possible of suc­cess. What has become clear is a flagrant pattern of violation of the will of the American people as embodied in law. One need not pause to argue very long in asking whether such a pattern of activity, of which we have simply seen the outcroppings, can be warran­ted. At least a student of American in­stitutions would not linger long on such a question. So the citation of Supreme Court cases is mere window dressing for a totally unprincipled pattern of ac­tivity. 
David Burrell Professor, Philo~ophlfTheology 

\TielV~~()~i~Il~l~--------------------------------------------------------------T_h_ur_s_da_y_,_Ja_n_u_ar_y_2_2_,1_9B_7_-_P_a_ge_7 
Students face reality 
With room picks just around the cor­ner, Saint Mary's students are begin­ning to consider the possibility of life off-campus. I am aware of this fact be­cause many of these students have knocked on my door, toured my house, and asked me questions. Although there is an aura that encompasses Campus View Apartments, Notre Dame Apart­ments and the many student houses in the area, off-campus life is not for everyone.  
Eileen Scherer guest column  
For many students off-campus life is a learning experience quite apart from dorm living. Students acquire impor­tant life skills such as budgeting, home care and paying bills. Students also have to deal with life's little emer­gencies. In October, the shower at my house would not shut off and in Novem­ber, the pilot went out in our gas heater; both times our landlord was unavail­able. Other not  

ready to take on the additional respon­sibility. Pat Rissmeyer, director of residence life, believes some students need the close contact in the dorms; they enjoy having their bathrooms cleaned and their food prepared. 
Presently 101 students from Saint Mary's live off campus. Students con­sidering life in an apartment or a house should be aware of the positive and negative aspects before they move. 
'For your own protection, don't be too trusting. Don't live alone. Get acquainted with your neighbors and keep an eye out for each other.' 
Problems among roommates in­crease when they take on larger living spaces. The different cleanliness stand­ards of roommates combined with the serious issues of paying bills, hosting parties, shopping, cooking and cleaning present difficulties which are un­familiar to the students. One problem in our house is lists. Cleaning lists, pay­ment lists, food lists and lists to stop writing lists clutter our chalk board in the kitchen. However useful the lists turn out to be, dealing with them is usually a nuisance. 
According to Rissmeyer, many steps have been taken to improve off-campus conditions. Representation of the stu­dents has been increased to include two advisors and a representative to the Board of Governance. The off-campus advisors work with Student Activites to provide the camaraderie that exists in the residence halls. Christmas trees and cakes are given to the dorms by Student Activities, and are also ordered for the off-campus lounge. 
The off-campus lounge has been up­
dated to include a color television, a 
of living off-campus 
microwave and a coffee machine. New 
mailboxes with individual combina­
tions also have been added to the lounge 
area. The off-campus lounge serves as 
a meeting place. I often meet one of 
my housemates there for lunch, to 
watch a soap or catch a ride home. 
Students can prepare themselves for the transition by considering the mon­etary aspect for an apartment or house. Rissmeyer suggests that students need to educate themselves about living ex­penses on a budget. They need to in­clude rent, heat, water, telephone charges, cooking and electricity to ar­rive at a realistic cost. 
Marta Ritten, a senior who has lived off campus for two years, sees off­campus life as a chance to live and learn in the real world. Ritten believes that some advantages include the op­portunity to take on additional respon­sibilities, to enjoy privacy and to meet more people. 
Mr. Richard Chlebek, director of safety and security at Saint Mary's, considers good judgment and common sense necessities for off-campus living. students, however, are Chlebek encourages students to read up on protection. He wants students to be safety-conscious. "For your own protection, don't be too trusting. Don't live alone. Get acquainted with your neighbors and keep an eye out for each other." 
In the first few weeks of school, we made friends with one of our neighbors and isolated another. One older couple didn't mind our occassional parties; the other did. To insure good neighborly relations, we informed our neighbors of our upcoming party and supplied them with our names and phone num­ber, so they could contact us if the party was too loud. 
As Saint Mary's students search for their new home off-campus, they should remember a few things. Choose an en­vironment that is safe. Apartments usually have their own security staff and parking lots that are well-lit. Houses in residential neighborhoods should be chosen carefully. Certain con­siderations should be made. Is there adequate street lighting? Who are your neighbors? Is the location safe? Are the housing conditions more than ade­quate? 
The most important thing students 
can do before they look at houses and 
apartments is to call the present resi­
dents first before they drop in. Too 
many times students have plowed 
through our house like invited guests, 
disrupting the daily activity of our 
home with their anticipation to live off 
campus. I remember all too well my 
own anticipation, and empathize with 
these almost-off-campus students. 
Each of my living arrangements, on 
campus and off, has been a good expe­
rience for me at a particular time in 
my life. Typical of most seniors, I'm 
looking forward to graduation and yet 
another new living situation. 
Eileen R. Scherer is a senior history major at Saint Mary's. 

The Iran affair is such an outrageous scandal because wrapped up in one in­cident are a plethora.of legal violations. Not only do the Democrats charge the Reagan administration with secretly ignoring its own anti-terrorism policy and not being able to control its foreign policy makers, but also for the possible breach of laws covering covert activi­ties, the selling of weapons, and Contra aid. Most agree that the details behind the Iran affair should be certain char­acteristics of the present investigations into the incident threaten to prevent a timely and just resolution of this foreign policy misadventure. 
Steve Claeys 

guest column 
The first disturbing aspect of the Iran inquiry is the number of investigating bodies involved. A legion of congres­sional committees have taken it upon themselves to conduct hearings about the scandal. This includes the Senate Foreign Relations committee, the House Foreign Affairs committee, the House and Senate oversight commit­tees on intelligence, and finally, House and Senate special select committees devoted to the investigation. The exec­utive branch, on the other hand, has also committed the Justice Depart­ment, the FBI, a special prosecutor, and an NSC review group. This myriad of bodies was created to insure a thor­ough investigation of the affair; instead they will lead to confusion and delay. 
Instead of a systematic and coor­dinated look at what took place at the White House, the various groups will produce a number of different conclu­sions. They will be based upon dis­similar interpretations of the same evidence and information not available to all of the bodies. Alternatively, a single joint congressional committee should be created to investigate the en­tire Iran affair. This committee would have access to the same information available to the regular intelligence and foreign affairs committees, and at the end of the investigation would sub­mit a report of any violations to the 
special prosecutor. Similarly, the exec­utive branch should limit itself to the special prosecutor and his staff who may use the facilities of the Justice De­partment if needed. 
The Democrats' extreme politiciza­tion of the situation is a second detri­mental aspect of the Iran investigation. While no one can blame the Democrats for taking advantage of the opportunity to attack the Republicans and their "teflon president," if they continue their irresponsible handling of the af­fair, the Democrats threaten to harm the inquiry. Instead of being concerned with uncovering the truth of this sordid affair, the Democrats seem determined to use the situation for bashin~ the Reagan administration. This behavior will only result in dragging out the in­vestigation through unproductive hearings, and damaging the public's trust in the government's ability to keep itself in check. The Democrats may also hurt their chances in 1988 as they expend their energies on the in­vestigation in lieu of proposing new policies. A serious Democratic presidential candidate cannot hope to win only on the damage the Iran affair has done to the Republicans, but must prove that the Democratic party can produce an· alternative to the Republi­can. 
I am not calling for a speedy end to the Iran affair investigation in order to prevent damage to the "symbolism of the president," or to prevent the scan­dal from becoming an election issue. Nor should we in any way sacrifice jus­tice for haste. Instead, I feel that the American people and government must quickly resolve this outrage. Time wasted by the inquiry is time which could be spent on a number of domestic and foreign policy issues such as arms control, the budget deficit, farm sup­port, and international trade. A single investigating body in both the legisla­tive and executive branches, along with some political restraint by the Democrats, will help prevent the inves­tigation itself from becoming a scandal. 
Steve Claeys is a junior government and international studies major. 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University f Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies f the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively s possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. ommentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column pace is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying pinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .........................Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski 
Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November3,1968 
_j 

------------------------------------------------------~-­
The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 8 
(but) Geoff Rossi is not fencing Dame this weekend will be an 
· Fencing 
with any kind of confidence. If unbeaten squad from Wiscon­
Sports Briefs 
he would only realize that he is sin ( 4-0). The Badgers knocked 
continuedfrom page 12 

as good as anybody, he would off Northwestern, Ohio State, 
Chris Zorich, a 6-2, 230-pound linebacker from Chicago, II. has verbally committed to attend Notre Dame next fall. Zorich, a product of Chicago's Vocational High School, the same school which produced NFL Hall-of­Fame linebacker Dick Butkus, is expected to officially sign a letter-of-intent Feb. 11. -The Observer 
The ND varsity women's tennis team is holding interviews for the position of women's tennis manager for the fall of 1987. Training for this paid position will be this spring. Contact Michele Gelfman or Mara Smith at 239-5149 or come by the ACC tennis office near Gate 5 in the afternoon. Deadline is Jan. 30. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will have an aerobic workout for all members tomorrow at 5: 15 p.m. in gym 4 of the ACC (above Gate 3). -The Observer 
The ND Kung Fu club will hold its first meeting of the semester Saturday at 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome and demonstrations will be given. For more information contact David at 3084. -The Observer 
The ND varsity field hockey team will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing field hockey Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 4:30p.m. at the football auditorium .. 
-The Observer 

The ND women's soccer club will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the basement of Breen­Phillips for anyone interested in playing indoor soccer. Elections will also be held. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
if I have to base it on last weekend. Whatever it took to win, he did it, and he did it with a lot of confidence and a lot of quality." 
Freshmen Joel Clark and Colin Gumbs, who notched their first wins last week, will also see match time as the foilists try to better their 9-0 record against the weaker competition. "We don't have a whole lot of strength in the foil," Gillham explained. 
DeCicco will also look to a developing sabre squad which boasts senior Kevin Stouter­mire (3-0) and junior Geoff Rossi (2-0). Presently, the Irish are searching for a solid number-three sabre man among freshman Danny Yu (1­0), sophomore Tim Collins (1-1) and senior Brian Quinn (0-1). 
While they look for that number-three fencer in the sabre, the Irish are hoping that Rossi will regain the confi­dence that could make him a top fencer. After notching an 18-2 record as a freshman, Rossi suffered a compound leg fracture that sidelined him last year. 
"Who's going to support Kevin Stoutermire in the sabre -that's a big question mark quite frankly," DeCicco said. "I know that Geoff Rossi is a bona fide number two right now, give Kevin Stoutermire a run for his money as far as being number one on the (sabre) team." 

The weakest link on the Irish squad this season appears to be an inexperienced epee squad, which DeCicco hopes will turn around to enable a second straight run for the national championship for the Irish. Last week, the epeeist, led by senior Tim Vaughan (2-0), posted a 6-3 mark. 
"I'm hoping to see one or more of them to start fencing like they want to be number one," DeCicco said. "When you've got a group of epeeists and none of them is coming forth, I want to shake them up. I'm digging into my bag of tricks. I have to stimulate them." 
While the Irish look among sophomores Todd Griffee (2-1) and Ted Fay 0-1) and seniors Dave Lennert 0-0) and John Haugh (0-1), the Badgers will put forth a solid epee unit that could plague the Irish. 
The Irish women foilists will also be looking to advance an unblemished record, as they look to improve upon last year's second-place finish in the NCAA tourney. 
Standing in the way for Notre Standford and Minnesota. 
According to women's Head Coach Yves Auriol, the Irish are a better team this year. 
"It's a solid team," Auriol said. "If the girls do a good job, we should have a good season." 
Junior Molly Sullivan (4-0) leads the Irish as the defending NCAA champ in the women's foil. Sophomore Janice Hynes (2-0) adds a solid number-two weapon after finishing 12th in the NCAA tourney. 
Adding depth are seniors Cindy Weeks 0-1) and Vittoria Quaroni 0-1) and sophomore Brenda Leiser ( 1-1). Surprising Auriol are freshman Anna Bar­reda (2-0) and Kristin Kralicek (2-0). 
After being ineligible for meets last year, Kralicek joins the incoming Barreda to bol­ster the Irish attack. "We didn't have Kristin Kralicek last year, and she's going to be able to help us -that's a big plus," Auriol said. Anna Boretta is a big plus too." 
The Irish travel tomorrow for Madison and their Saturday Wisconsin invite. While they should be favored to come away with perfect records, they will also be fine-tuning their act for upcoming rival Wayne State and a jam-packed February schedule. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
,, NOTICES 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277·5833 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8t3t 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca­tion: 808 Howard St .. just off ol N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week 10-530, ph. 233­2342. Bnng in this ad and receive $5 off every order ol $50 or morel 
LOST/FOUND 
lost.. red book bag with gymnastics gear, including gnps, shoes, etc. Meets start In 2 weeka. need desperately. II round call 1802 or bring to It tO Grace. 
LOST: BROWN AND TAN RUSSIAN STYLE HAT. PLEASE CALL 4606. 
LOST: Black wallet at Theodore's Satur­
day night. Please call Terry at x1137. 
Thank you. 
····························· ............................. 
LOST: Grey knapsack, with bool<s, notebooka, and envelopes to be mailed -!rom South Dining Hall, 1119. To anyone who has found this or to the thief that took It: please return to the Lost & Found and-Or call Eroc at 277-0984. EspeCially needed are the contents in the manilla envelopes and In the notebooks. 
LOST • HELP! I NEED MY GLASSES -PLASTIC LENS. WIRE, AERONAUTI­CAL SHAPE, IN HARD PLASTIC CASE LOST ON 1117. IF FOUND, CALL MIKE 4640. 
t left the Arthur Andersen dinner at Barclay's (1119) w1th the wrong London Fog trench coat. ~ you have the same problem, call Mike x1657. 
............................ ........ 
FOUND/ Timex watch on North Quad, 11.2t. Call xt769, Mike after 7:00p.m. to Identity and claim. 
LOST: Small Gold Chain. Last seen a· the Rock on Tuesday night(11.20) Please call Kevin ·3540 
LOST B·BALL TIX AT W.VIRGINIA GAME IF FOUND CALL SCOTT AT 1599 CAN IDENTIFY SECTION WOULD HAP­PILY PAY A REWARD/Ill 
................................ 
LOST: completed cross-stitch needle work of a HUMMEL psttern LITTLE GABRIEL ---CALL Brother John -6284 
LOST CLASS RING FAP 87 Call Fred 288-282t REWARD 

LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be· tween PW & O'Shag 9:00·10:00 Please be kind and contact me it you are the one who found it x-2738 or bring it by 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
LOST at NO Apt party, one navy CB down jacket with light blue stripe. Call Mark at 288-9548 or drop at 728 PE 
...... ..................... 
HAVE YOU FOUND MY KEYS? I 
HAVEN'T! PLESE CALL ME IF YOU 
HAVE/IT'S A BRASS KEY CHAIN THAT 
LOOKS LIKE A GOLD INGOT. MY 
NAME IS KYLE. MY NUMBER IS 1223. 
CALL ME ANYTIMEI(IF YOU FOUND 
MY KEYS) THANKS MUCHAS. 
............ 

FOUND: Bookstore bag ol new books 
!rom O'Shag. Call Lost & Found office in 
LaFortune. 
FOR RENT 

Two room utilities psid private entrance one person 288-0955277-1254 
Have house suitable lor 5 students, near Memorial Hospital. Nice neighbor. For in­to, call 232-4412. 
Large duplex being used as one house. Two kitchens, three baths. Completely furnished including washer and dryer. Complete burglar and tire alarm system. Will accommodate eight. Call 234·9364 after five. 
FOR RENT: 2 BEDROOM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS. 200$ A MONTH PLUS UTILITIES CALL SEAN 287·6546 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. Apt. lor rent. Sleeps 6. 11.2 block !rom beach. Will take best offer starting at $750 lor Spring Break week. Call x41t2 or x4095 ASAP. 
WANTED 

SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-8D0-237-2061 
SUMMER JOBS -Large resort on east entrance to Glacier National Park, Mon­tana looking tor students interested In summer employment lor the to/lowing positions: Waitrons, bartenders, kitchen help, cooks, retail clerks, maids, cas­hiers, cocktail waltrons, desk clerks, or­lice personnel and maintenance. Monthly salary including room and board. Inter­views will be held on campus In mid­February. Write tor application to our win­ter address: St. Mary RB, Inc., PO Box 1808, Sun Valley, 10 83353. 
YO HEY, need 2 DUKE GA'S please call­1152 
Riders needed to MNPLS U ol M leaving thursday jan. 29 at 9 am. Return whenever. Call Joe Neuville 232-91t2 
male s1nger needed:We play everything !rom old party tunes to modern top-40. II interested, please call Scott at 2289 
WAITRESSES NEEDED AT PRIVATE CLUB, 12·22 HOURS PER WEEK, MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD. STARTING AT $3.35 PER HOUR PLUS TIPS. AP­PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT AMERI­CAN TURNERS, 53666 NORTH IRON­WOOD. 
Students needed to help save lives. Watch T.V. and earn extra money. New donors or former donors who haven't donated plasma in the last 30 days will be paid $11.00 following initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west ol Burger King on US 201 Lincolnway West. Phone 234-601 o. Open Tues.. Wed., Fri., and Sat. 
Wanted students with medical back­ground who are available to work 9-5 shill on Tues., Wed., Fri., or Sat. Starting pey 4.25 per hour. II interested bring resume to American Plasma, 5t5 Lin· colnway West, South Bend. 234-6010. 
FOR SALE 
ATT:SKIERS FOR SALE K2 712 WI TYR.360 BINDINGS EXC. COND. CALL LAURIE SHEA 2146 
FOR SALE--Juki 6100 Daisywheel Printer--$t50. Was $400 new. 234-7362 Francis 
WORD PROCESSOR FOR SALE­Philip& Micom 3003 word processor with letter quality printer, cable, disks and software. Like new condition. Contact Shirlee Knudsen at 239-5093, 
Skilom XCL 181 waxless cross-country skis, Ski/om poles (140-156") and Adldas boots-bindings. All in excellent condition -$125. Contact Susan Reed, 239-7516. 
Used cross country ski sale. Saturday 1·2:30 at the Rockne Goll shop. For more into, call NVA at 239-6t00. 
400K External disk drive tor the Mac. Call Nancy at 277-8732. 
TICKETS 
Need GAs torN. Carolina and Duke. Call BiU,2008 
BIG$$$ FOR N CAROLINA TICKS CALL MIKE 1129 
NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 
......... 

Need 2 GA's lor DePaul. Call Kathy 284­4380. 
Need Tlcketa Deaparately to both the North Carolina and Duke basketball gamea. Either atudent or GA'a. Call Eric at 272-9123. 
HELP/ I need 4 N. Carolina G.A.s. Call Pete. £1854. 
NEED t N. CAROLINA GA OR STU· DENT TIX. WILL PAY$$$. CALL PETE 2197 
...................................... 
NEED GA'S AND STUDENT TIX'S FOR MARQUETTE GAME CALL KYLE AT 2036 
WANTED: 4 G.A.'S FOR MARQUETTE GAME JAN 28 CALL TIM 3240 OR 3249. 
HELPII Mom and Dad are coming! I DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's Will pay BIG$$ Call Keratin 4036 
NEED DUKE GA'S $$$$ CALL STEVE 2180 
WANTED 5 TIX FOR N. CAROLINA GAME. CALL TRICIA SMC 4036. 
HELP! I need 2 tix to No. Carolina. Call Bobbi £2764 
NEED UNC TICKETS CALL NANCY 277·5626 
PERSONALS 
Part-lime mktg. pos. on campus. Poten­tial to make $&tlr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592-2121. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 1 0-530 ph. 233­2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off every order ot $50 or morel 
FARLEYITES GET PSYCHED Ill FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR· LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHED/II FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­LEY WEEK FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEOIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­LEY WEEK 
PLEASE HELP --1 NEED A RIDE TO IU·BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND, JAN.23 TO JAN.25. CALL NIKKI, 283­3785. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 DUKE STU­DENT TIX-CALL KIM x4440 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVE OHIO 11.23-11.25 DEBBIE 2960 
............................. .. OK the holidays are over-all would be appreciated it the tree taken at the Sr. Class Cocktail Party be returned to the class office 
HAPPY HAPPY 21ST KATIE ENGLEHART/I 
SENIORS/ SENIORS! SENIORS! IT'S COMING IT'S COMING IT'S COMING GET YOUR SCOPING GOGGLES ON FOR. .. SENIOR FORMAL '87' MARCH 27 ·29 KEEP ALERT! MORE INFO TO FOL· LOW 
THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED! 
NOTRE DAME ENCOUTER APPLICA· TIONS DUE TOMORROW/ PICK UP LAST-MINUTE APPS. TODAY RETURN TO CAMPUS MINISTRY,BADIN HALL BY FRIDAY AT 5:00 
NICE MOUTH GEORGEII -the three hairballs-h 
FALL LONDONERS DINNERS EVERY TUES. 5-7pm So. Dining Hall Starting 1-27; cost 25 cents; queries? Gai/1514 
RIDERS TO OHIO STATE THIS WEEKEND. CALL SARA SMC 5214. 
K.M. No one has ever done anything as beautiful as you have done lor me. I can't thank you enough. You made me so hap­py. Please tell me who you are. Anne 
HUMAN LEAGUEII 
HUMAN LEAGUEIII 
HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING Ill 
HERE? Noll 
Riviera Night Club, Chicago Sunday, February 15 $18 cash--tix and bus S In SAB office by Monday, Jan. 26111 
400K External disk drive lor sale lor the Mac computer. Call Nancy at 277-8732. 
Ride avail. to LOUIS. KY 11.23·11.25 Kim 272-5744 
E AAY. MON I I I C Tired ol the cold? Fed up with snow? Then COME TO THE ISLANDS, MON!II Tontght is 0 REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO/II C No cover charge, just the best Reggae around Forget wtnter, come down and party! Every Thursday IS 0 REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO/II C Georgetown Shopping Ctr, off Cleveland Road on Emmons Caii277-DUKE tor 1nlormation and direc­tions! 
0 REGGAE NIGHT AT DUKE'S BISTRO/II 
Campus band needs drummer. REM. Police, INXS, Blues. Call Tony 4385 or Gary 2313 
MIKE AND WILL-think you could prov1de a HEAT WAVE during this lreez•ng wea­ther? We won't even have to see it to believe it... Diannnne and Beth 
YES YOU CAN, and you did and that's all that matters. Congratulations on your perSI'nal standards. Mall. 
Good luck in Philly Annie! 
Seniors -1 need your extra graduat1on licketsll Do you need extra cash lor spring break? Give me a call and a deal can be worked out! I'm desperate ill Tom 283-125t 
'""KEENAN REVUE TICKET DISTRIBU­TION"" Friday, January 23 at 1 p.m. in Gate 3 olthe ACC and 4:30 p.m. in 0' Laughlin Auditorium. No lines mey form more than an hour before distribution. Limit ot t ticket per 10 and 2 IDs per person. 
YOU'RE HEBE-lNG ME IF YOU DON'T STOP BY TONIGHT. CAPTAIN KOS­HER 
1972 WAS THE FIRST YEAR PEOPLE MARCHE DID IN PROTEST OF THE ROE V. WADE DECISION LEGALIZING ABORTION TODAY, WE MARCH JOIN US IN SPIRIT APATHY IS OUR GREATEST ENEMY SPONSORED BY SAINT MARY's-NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE 
ANYONE TAPE THE LAST FEW MINUTES OF THE HISTORICAL USOND GAME ON 111.2&96?? WE NEED ITt PLEASE CALL MICHELLE 284-5096 
.............................................................. 
SENIORS/II SENIORS/II SENIORS/II DO YOU WANT TO BE A STAR IN THE SENIOR CLASS VIDEO??? GET A GROUP OF FRIENDS TOGETHER AND LIP SYNC A SONG. CALL MICHELLE AT 284-5096 FOR MORE INFO! 

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-pag~ 
Dillon topples Alumni as IH basketball resumes schedule 
-·,... 

By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer 
While some Notre Dame stu­dents might be concerned only about the hoops going on when the Irish play in the south dome of the ACC, they might be surprised to find several heated battles at various gyms all across the venue in the form of Interhall basketball. 
And while the season is still young, the excellent games have been played already. 
In the ACC division, Dillon A, fresh off its 88-30 pummeling of Flanner A-2, squeaked by a hard-luck Alumni squad, 59-56. Alumni had lost its opening game to Off-Campus A, 54-53. The Big Red looked sluggish in th beginning, however, as the Dogs took advantage of solid outside shooting by Shawn O'Brien and John ZadeH, taking a 19-18 lead at halftime. The tough inside game of Dillon, on both ends of the court, enabled the Big Red to capture a nine­point cushion at the end of the third quarter. 
Some key defensive plays, 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
Sign-ups: 
Tonight at the CSC Fest 
Organizational meeting for all prospective tutors: Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:00 at the CSC 
Encouraging the individual growth ofthe children ofSouth Bend 
OFFER GOOD JAN. 19-31, '87 

SALES TAX 
,~.)) 
lORD 

$AVE up to s1 000 
w. w~ A.X.Z Plan luyen WlfA1Dll rr TU£1 ••• Wf WAitT TOlE YDIM CU COIII'AIIYI 
NO ADD-ON STICKERS!
........,._...._..-..,..,__......_, 
JEFFERSON at CEDAR-MISHAWAKAirt~~• FORD HOTLINE: 259-1981 
however-by Jim Welsh in par­ticular -brought Alumni back within three, but missed free throws and key turnovers left the Dogs short, something cap­tain Matt Hanley knows the Dogs will have to improve upon if they have any chance of get­ting back in the race. 
"When the games are close, you can't make those kind of mistakes," said Hanley. "We also have to be more aggres­sive in the future. We don't have a lot of big guys or football players, but we can't be in­timidated." 
As for Dillon, the key to win­ning the last two games has been its ability to outmuscle its opponents. 
"Bill Healy, John Livingston and myself will have to hold our own in the middle," said Dillon captain Frank Izzo. "We took advantage of our height and bulk in both of our first two games." 
Pat Marget led the Big Red with 12 points against Alumni. In the Big Ten division, Sorin A and Holy Cross A have raced 
BRUNO'S 
. \(\a\ Itt 
~t\~ Follow 23 South to: ~ 2610 PnlrleAYe. South Bend 
288-3320 

Free Delivery to ND and SMC campuses Spm to 1Opm monday through Saturday 
Special this month: 14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6.00 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 
.....,,.,.__,--..,,............,..,....~""~,.,.~--...,._IMI'..__,_......,.._,...~,. 
Indoor Soccer Sign-up Daily 2-Spm & Sat., Jan. 24 1 Oam-2pm 
South Bend Turners-, Ironwood at the Toll Rd. 
* 
8 game session starting Jan. 30 

* 
Women -Fridays, 7 pm-12 am 

* 
Men -Saturdays, 7 pm-12 am and weeknights at 11 :30 pm 

* 
$50 deposit required per 15 member team (total fee -$350 per team) Call277-0851 for more information 


{3-5 pm) Indiana's First Built Indoor Soccer Arena 

Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 
Public Finance Group 
is currently accepting resumes 

University of Notre Dame Se'iors for the two-year Financial Analy.!t ~~fll 
Please see the Career & Placemdnt Services Office for details. 
out as early front-runners. Both teams won Tuesday, with Sorin beating Alumni A-2, 44­43, and the Hogs trouncing Pangborn, 68-45. 
The other A division, the Big Sky, has Stanford picking up where it left off in the fall -un­defeated. The Studs have a 4-0 record already, beating Zahm, Keenan, Cavanaugh, and most recently Off-Campus, 82-54. Leading Stanford against 0-C were Bill Sullivan and Gary Sasse, who combined for 36 points. 
Track 
continuedfrompage 12 
high school. In fact, basketball kept him away from track his freshman year because he was too tired at the end of the season to go out for track. 
He finally picked up the shot that year during a field day at his high school. His first toss traveled farther than the best toss of a senior who was prac­ticing for the city champion­ships. 
Upon the advice of his high school track coach, who saw talent going to waste, Kraus 
joined the team. His senior year he placed second in the state championships. At this point many colleges saw potential. Sixteen colleges to be exact. But he turned down all those scholarships to come to Notre Dame. Immediately he was intro­duced to weights. His top bench mark went from 240 pounds in June to 350 pounds currently. He was also introduced to dining hall food, and his weight began to drop dramatically. As a result he was placed on the "Four-Plate Diet," meaning he had to eat four main entres at each meal. A lack of upperclassmen at the shot put left Kraus, along with freshmen Ted MeNamara and Rob Fitzgerald, to fend for themselves. But Kraus says he does not feel uncomfortable in that position. · "That's the way it's always been for me," he says. "I've never had anyone older who could show me how to do it. It would be nice to have someone older to show us how. "It's what you put into it. (Assistant Coach Ted) Potts can't spend time with everyone at the same time. We know what we're supposed to do, and we try to help each other." A goal-oriented . person, Kraus has set his first goal as to qualify for the IC4A's. His toss at the Hoosier Dome was just 8 inches shy of the 52 feet, 2 inches needed to qualify. A football star and a former basketball player join four other runners in seeing their first action of the season tomor­row night. Irish flanker Tim Brown will face some stiff competition in the form of Michigan State's Derrick Leonard in the 60-yard dash. And former Irish guard Jeff Peters will compete in the high jump. Sprinter Tony Ragunas and distance runners David Warth, Mike O'Conner and Ron Markezich will run against the Spartans after sitting out the Hoosier Dome Invitational. The meet gets under way 
with the field events at 6:30 p.m., and the last race is sched­

~ Menill Lynch 
uled to start at 8:15p.m. 

The Observer Thursday, January 22, 1987-page 10 
.... ­
Thompson has work cut out with 1988 Olympic basketball 
Seoul, South Korea, 1988, is just around the corner, and for the first time we have an Olym­pic basketball coach that's over six-feet, four-inches tall: John Thompson, the towel­wringing, resident capital-G genius of Georgetown Univer­sity. 
For the few who are un­familiar, he's known as "Big Bad John" to his opponents in won in 1976. And, he also helped in selecting the material for Bobby Knight of Indiana in 1984. 

Positives? "Big Bad John" is loaded. His style of play was created for the Olympics -­coast-to-coast pressure on D, and a giddy-up offense, which if it doesn't immediately con­vert, is followed by patient pat­terns. Coach John also knows 

FEilD
AI 
McGuire 
Hoopla 

the Beast of the East--a strong, how to use a long bench, which General Patton, Lee Iacocca is a definite asset because of Liberty person who's very the physical style of interna­patriotic, and in my mind at tional play, and which means least, there's no doubt that he that at least 10 of the 12 U.S. was a clear-cut choice if the Olympians will be sure to get 
U.S. is to maintain the gold their fair share of PT. once again. One other thing: Coach John 
Coach Thompson was not, by also has a complete under­any stretch of the imagination, standing of international rules, a political choice, when it came and he also spent time last to deciding who would head up summer with Coach Lute Olsen the U.S. hoops squad this time of Arizona at the World Games around. Anyone who's been in Madrid. Make no mistake, familiar with the international he is no stranger to the inter­scene for the last decade knows national bullring. that his credentials are strong So, those are all the positives. as the Rock of Gibraltar. All the items on the asset side 
First off, he was an assistant of the ledger. Now, I think, it's to Dean Smith of North time we got on to the list of Carolina in Montreal, when we things on the liability side -­
5386 
600 
things that Coach John, or for him on his team. of a team, and that he plans to 
that matter, any Olympic So what are the answers? spend quite a bit of time this 
coach, has to deal with this Well, I really believe that year at the Pan-Am Games in 
time around. David Stern, commissioner of Indianapolis, where Denny 
First off, this is not a summer the NBA, will do everything he Crum of Louisville is handling Olympics, but a Games of the can to help solve the problem the head coaching duties. What fall, when the leaves are start­with the pros, because in the Coach John hopes to do there is ing to turn. It goes from Sep­past the NBA has done more to get a big leg up on evaluating tember to October, which than its fair share to make our the prospective ballplayers, creates major headaches for U.S. Olympic team the best and get some feeling on what blacktop in LaLa Land, which that it can be --both financially, the desires and commitments made it super inviting for the and also by adjusting their of certain players will be, players who wanted to use the rules. before they start the 1987-88 col­Five Rings and the Olympic As far as the college basket­lege season. Anthem to open doors and gain ball players are concerned, I What does he need? exposure into the financial think what you'll see is a reach­First of all, he'll be looking league, the NBA. ing into and response from the for players mainly that can 
As if that weren't enough, private sector to supply a con­play up-court, who can defense let's take a look at problem tingent of 10 to 15 tutors, who the three-point shot, and who number 2, which concerns the would go through training and are mobile as well as physical. athletes who are still in college. the traveling with the Olympic Olympic games are played in Right now, it looks like they'd squad that we send to Seoul. a push-shove, grunt, multiple­be missing at least three weeks Coach John, quite naturally, foul-type style, and you must of class --which is a no-no -is reacting to all this with top remember that John will not 
unless you figure to take 'em hat and cane diplomacy. have the big advantage of '84, out for the whole semester. The only comment he'll when we were on our own And, believe me, that's a no-no make about all the problems is Olympics, so that it might ad­to the poor college coach who that he would like to have three versely affect his Hoyas, or has recruited t.he kid and has Patrick Ewings in his selection vice-versa. 
Super Bowl Special 

Kegs: 

Busch Half Barrel Keg ....... $25.99 
Case of Miller Lite .......... $7.99 Case of Molsen Golden ....... $11.99 
CORKTOWNE 
LIOUORS, INC. 277-6805 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '• mile west of Martm 's Supermark.et 

The above two numbers are very impor­tant. The top one represents the amount of money raised in last semester's Wed­nesday Lunch Fast. The bottom one sig­nifies the number of participants. Thank you now and in the future. 
World Hunger Coalition 


moderation...the 
sensible way to 
enjoy 

your favorite 
Anheuser-Busch beer. 
--~-~$no 
~("iiiji))·
~ ~ IIIII
MICHEWR 

r-------------------·----· --~-,~·-----------------~---­
• 
___ -.:.... 

':11:'~~ttll~...........................................................T•h•u.rs•d•a-y,•J•a•n-ua•r•y•2•2•,1•9•87•-•p•a•g•e~11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
IN AIJDITION 7V GOING 70 UASS -· ANP YOUR 9HI? 
Kl6ULARLY, YOU'V[ BEEN SPOT­ION ON WEEKDAYS 
rEO S11/PYIN61N ,..... .I 1() APAN6EROUSLY 


WIIATGIYES? 
J../AVl'NT JJATCJIEIJ ~ 
1lTT£RMAN"INA 
~ fV/ONT/1 .•.. 
THE LIBRARY. YOU ; 
Campus 
4:00p.m.: Meeting, St. Joseph's Hospital 
E.R. volunteers, all volunteeers, rookies Dinner Menus and veterans must attend the scheduling meeting, 123 Nieuwland Science Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round of Beef Sweet and Sour Pork 
5:00 p.m.: Meeting, Overseas Develop­
Seafood Cantoneese over rice 
ment Network, CSC coffee room 
Pepperoni Cheese Grinder Saint Mary's
7:00 9:15, 11:30p.m.: Movie, "Fast Times 
Pizza Deluxe and Cheese Pizza 
at Ridgemont High," $1.50, Engineering 
Sweet and Sour Pork 
Auditorium 
Potato Pancakes Deli Bar 
39 Punta del ­

.. • • • • •
...• ... .•...•....•. . •.. ...... ......... •.
• • • • • • .!lLnnouncing tlie • • • •
.. • • 42 Berserk
...• ... • 43 Wedge of a 
.. .. .. • • sort
...• ... . .. (jrand Opening . .. . 45 Charge with <>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 1/22/87

All Rights Reserved
• • • •••••••••• gas
. • • 
• 
••• 47 Melts twice ••• 49 Novel 6 Sparse 50 Rich fabric 7 River in lt.
••••• of 
• 
••• 54 Ratio phrase 8 Removal 
•••• • 56 Adores 9 Islet• • 57 Integers: abbr. 10 Bose and • ••• 59 Stop! Anjou
The Country
• 63 So be it 11 Brilliance • •• ••• 64 Foyer 12 Follow
... 
65 Sample 13 Hoglike 
.. ..• 66 Defaces 22 -Raton, Fla . 
67 "Bus Stop" 24 Took turns playwright 26 Logging tools 
...•• Harvester 
...• •••• 
68 Patriotic 27 Outbuildingunique yogurt items HOURS: Allen 28 Mex. money
••••• •• •• •• 69 Heraldic term 29 Palo -, Cal . 
• trail mixes Mon. -Fri. : 77-8 pm 70 Gr. letters 31 Vigor •••• dried fruits and nuts Sat -Sun.: 72-5 pm •••• 71 Augurs 33 Mal de­
• • 35 Long fish
...• assortment of gifts and DOWN 36 Arabian gulf 
1 Turfs 37 Communique
•• handmade items Located in the basement •• ••• 
... 2 Gorge 38 Distort
• afl~& [$&:,fll!i}fP{j,&{$a of LaFortune • 3 Broadway 
41 Roommate
••• 50 Fault 58 Russ. saint...• • notice 44 Sp. ladies: 51 -Empire 60 Tennis great • • 4 Serviceable abbr. 52 Not concealed 61 Luminary
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~'\Ill"·"@''"''..,~ •••
...• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .~V!,;'!J' ·uuw;:V 1 old style 46 Large 53 Perfume in 62 Perfect diving 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Kids' unhappy properties a way scores hour? 48 Bridal paths 55 Egg-shaped 64 Hurry 
I~----------------------,
SAB presents...

TONIGHT 
I 

Pink Aoyd, The Wall I 
I
7,9,11 
I 

Friday and Saturday I EG Auditorium I $1.50 I 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed! 
I 

·--------·------·~--··---------------------.1 

"­

Non-singing canaries have to take wood shop 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Scour 6 Grade 
1 0 Favorites 14 Speak 
pompously 15 Lake or canal 16 Pale tan 17 Victor over 
Goliath 18 Artist Warhol 19 Jai­20 Silvery fish 21 Deity 22-drain 23 Ireland 25 Missionary 27 Hot spring 30 Oafish 32 Knight wear 34 Geometric 
figures 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

s • o •1sc o "I"or
E A V E T 0 T E M l 0 D E T H E P H A N T 0 M 0 V E N HARPERS.REDNESS 
l!rt!-~pl R E ~~R~GE I G S 
l S E E 0 ell-~

II"··­
-!-~U SADSACK LJ_J PREPAY IND DD~ E D s E l ·~ ~~ s p EE D 
-A l l P R 0 URN­,., ••••••• MORAL 
AINU  DOONEiBURY  
S L I  T  D U N C E  E l  L E  
S 0 D S  S T E E R  R E 0 S  

1/22/87 


I 
q',1 
t, 
'I 

John Elway and the Denver Broncos hope to avoid the tenacious New York Giants' pass rush by establishing a running game in Sunday's 
Giants have edge in ground attack; Broncos also want to establish run 
APPhoto Super Bowl. The Giants, however, appear bet­ter suited to keeping the ball on the ground. See related story below. 
Associated Press PASADENA, 
Calif. -The 
New York Giants are confident they can run the ball on the Den­ver 

Broncos. The Broncos hope they can run on the Giants. 
In other words, if Sunday's Super Bowl turns into a ground war, the Giants have a big edge. 
The Broncos, nine-point un­derdogs in the NFL champion­ship game, have spent the week talking about having to es­tablish the run to keep the pres­sure of the Giants' menacing front seven off John Elway. As Coach Dan Reeves puts it: 
"If John is forced to throw 50 or 60 times, we're going to be in trouble." 
The Broncos were the ninth worst team in the NFL at run­ning the ball; the Giants were the best at stopping the run. Joe Morris' 1,516 yards, second best in the NFL, was 362 yards better than the combined total of the Broncos' two best backs -sammy Winder and and Gerald Willhite. 
Moreover, the Giants were not enthralled with their rush­ing performance in the first meeting between the teams, a 19-16 New York win Nov. 23, al­though Morris gained 106 yards in 23 carries. 
And even at their most con­fident, the Broncos don't seem as confident about running as the Giants are. 

"Joe Morris is a friend of 
mine and a great running 
back," Willhite says. "I think 
I'm just as good as Joe, and 
Sammy thinks he's just as good 
... But Joe thinks he's better 
than anyone." 
The Giants' offensive scheme is simple and no se­cret : run Morris until the Broncos show they can stop him and use the running to set up Phil Simms' passing. 
The Broncos, meanwhile, use quickness and deception more than brute force to stop the run -Los Angeles Raiders Coach Tom Flores says they might use 25 different defensive fronts in a 60-play game. They may shift two or three times before the ball is snapped. 
"We're trying to simplify things from what we did the last time," says New York cen­ter Bart Oates, who has a 20­point weight advantage over Greg Kragen, the Broncos' 245­pound nose tackle. 
"I think we reacted too much then to what they were doing. We may have spent too much time adjusting the last time in­stead of concentrating on blocking our man." 
"The movement can cause some blocking problems," says Ron Ehrhardt, the Giants' of­fensive coordinator. "But you've just got to make sure you've got the right people blocking the right people on their side." 
Some of New York's power comes from fullback Maurice Carthon and tight end Mark Bavaro, each one of the best blockers at his position in the league. The Giants may also add a second tight end, Zeke Mowatt, as they did with con­siderable success during the season. 
The 5-7 Morris, meanwhile, has the ability to hide behind the front, then use his quick­ness to cut inside the defense. To counteract that, the Denver linebackers have been working out with a huge medicine ball to teach the linebackers to keep their hands and bodies low when they try to tackle Morris. 
Denver's problems in run­ning are compounded by injur­ies on the offensive line, where Paul Howard, the most experi­ence blocker, is out with a knee injury and will be replaced by second-year man Mark Cooper. Keith Bishop, their Pro Bowl guard, has also been hurt but will play. 
The Broncos must deal with New York's linebackers -not only league MVP lawrence Taylor, but eight-time Pro Bowler Harry Carson and the Carl Banks, who plays the op­posite outside spot from Taylor. Most teams put a second blocker on Taylor and sometimes even a third. 
Like the Giants, the Broncos get a lot of blocking from their tight end -Clarence Kay, who is on a par with Bavaro as a blocker if not a pass receiver. But while Kay did a good job on Banks in the first game, the Broncos ran for just 80 yards, 51 of them on eight scrambles by Elway. 
Kay, with Joey Hackett or Or­son Mobley on the other side, may be the key to handling Taylor because a double-team opens up lanes for other Giants defenders. 

.....-----------------------------__,___________ 
Thursday, January 22, 1987 -page 12 

Irish fencing squads looking to reach top 
By MIKE CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's fen­cing team will attempt to im­prove upon a 1-0 record and ex­tend its 54-meet winning streak, while the Notre Dame women's fencing team will also look to boost its 1-0 mark this weekend in a five-team meet at Wisconsin. 
"I hope we can continue the winning ways," Irish head coach Mike DeCicco said. "If we can improve like I hope we can, then I think that we're going to be good enough to con­tinue with what we've been doing. But we have to improve in the epee, and we have to im­prove in the sabre. If we im­prove a lot more in the foil, they'll have a law against it." 
Traveling to Madison, Wis., the Irish will be facing Big Ten rivals Wisconsin and Min­nesota, Chicago, and Lawrence. Last year in Chicago, the Irish went 20-7 against the Wisconsin Badgers while also notching a 23-4 win against the Chicago Maroons. 
This season, Wisconsin joins Illinois and Ohio as the top teams in the Big Ten and in the Midwest. The Irish will also travel to Ohio State on Feb. 7, while Illinois will visit Notre Dame on Feb. 21. 
"Wisconsin is going to be very, very tough," DeCicco said. "The others (at this weekend's meet) will have in­dividuals -an epeeist here, a foilist there -but when you talk in terms of total team, you've 
Unusual athlete Kraus adds strength in field 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
A coach once said that poten­tial is just a fancy way of saying, "You ain't done noth­ing yet." But once you get a look at freshman shot putter Tom Kraus, you probably will think that coach was a bit too sarcastic. 
Kraus stands at 6-5, 260 pounds, and is currently the top shot putter for the Irish indoor track team. This is amazing considering he has thrown the shot for only three years, and he had never used weights until this past summer. 
Now that's potential. 
"He has both strength and size," says Head Coach Joe Piane. "The kid has tons of po­tential." 
Already the Toledo, Ohio, na-
McGuire joins Observer 
Today's issue of The Ob­from now through the NCAA server marks the debut of Tournament in March. This NBC-TV basketball com­week, McGuire looks at mentator and former Georgetown Head Coach Marquette head coach AI John Thompson in his role as McGuire's weekly column coach of the 1988 U.S. Olym­entitled Hoopla. Sponsored pic team. The first of by Miller Beer, McGuire's McGuire's columns appears column will explore the on page 10 of today's Obser­world of college basketball ver. 
tive has taken fourth place in the shot in the 40-plus team Hoosier Dome Invitational. And he will look to take his first collegiate victory when Mic­higan State visits the north dome of the ACC for a 7 p.m. meet. 
Potential is one word for Kraus. Unusual is another, that is if you adhere to traditional stereotypes of big men. 
Consider, the man has never played football. Ever. 
"I've had everyone and his brother try to get me to play football," says Kraus. 
Kraus stayed away from football on a doctor's advice be­cause he grew one foot between the seventh and eighth grades, and his knees were weak. 
But he did play basketball in 
see TRACK, page 9 
got to think about Chicago." 
Last weekend, the Badgers knocked off Northwestern, Ohio State, Stanford and Chicago, and dropped a close match to Illinois. The 4-1 Badgers are led by Alex Renk, who finished 21st in the foil in the NCAA Championship Tournament last March; Drew Bailey, who went undefeated against a tough Illinois epee squad last week; and Ken Fiorell, who, according to Badger coach Tony Gillham, "had a good week last week." 
The defending national champion Irish squad will base its attack with a solid foil squad and a developing sabre squad. 
The Irish will enter the meet with two all-America foilists in senior Charles Higgs­Coulthard and sophomore Yehuda Kovacs. Each went un­defeated in Notre Dame's opener against Stanford last week and posts a perfect 2-0 mark. The Irish are also enjoy­ing the 3-0 mark recorded by sophomore Derek Holeman. 
"Charles, who has already won the national title, is fen­cing well," DeCicco said. "Yehuda Kovacs has picked up where he left off last year, when he fenced for the gold medal in the nationals. 
·"The one pleasant surprise, in my opinion, is the quality of fencing we're getting out of Derek Holeman, a first-year guy. He didn't fence last year, but this year, he's fencing well. He's my best foilist right now 
see FENCING, page 8 




