
SPECIAL OLYMPICS ISSUE ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 1 
• The Official Publication of the International Summer Special Olympics Games .. 
Games officially open 
1 By MATT SITZER 
-, 
Observer Staff 
....~1 · 
I 


Sunday was a truly memorable day at the 1987 International Summer Spe­cial Olympic Games as they were for­mally begun in a gala Opening Ceremonies extravaganza performed before a capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Ceremonies were preceded by a full day of exciting competion, as many of the events finished preliminary ac­tion and moved into actual competition. 
When not competing in their respec­tive events, athletes took time out to participate in the many interesting clinics and demonstrations taking place at various locations around the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses. They certainly hap no trouble keeping themselves occupied during their leisure time. 
Olympic Town was open as usual, highlighted by an apppearance from Miss America, Kelleye Cash. Special Olympians found many other opportu­nities to get celebrity autographs and photos, as the "stars" were out in force throughout the many athletic venues. 
Athletic events weren't the only things to heat up yesterday, as temper­atures soared into the 90's, making Sun­day's competition sticky indeed. 
But athletes, coaches, and volunteers didn't seem to mind the temperature, as they awaited the thrilling Opening Ceremonies with breathless anticipa­tion. 
And as anyone who attended the Ceremonies can testify, they certainly weren't short-changed. 
Soccer characterized by high level of play 
By PETE GEGEN After 10-minute trial games Satur­in 1983, and they have an excellent tica Ud?" Observer Staff day, the 38 teams have been grouped chance to repeat that title. Why are "Cuatro. Pero en el mes pasado, into six divisions according to abitlity they so good? To find out, read this con­siete." 
In watching the soccer game between level. Factors such as type of handicap versation: The last question gave the more 
Chile and El Salvador, one thing made and wide-ranging ages cause the wide "Practica Ud. el jutbol todos los likely answer. 
an enormous impression -the caliber variation in level of play. dias ?" "Cuantos anos tiene cuando empieza 
of play. Of the 19 foreign teams entered in the "No." Ud. jugar al jutbol?" "This Chilean team could beat some Olympics, six of them comprise the top "Cuantos dias en una semana prac-"Seis." 

small college teams,'' said Notre Dame head soccer coach Dennis Grace, who was taking in the soccer action on the fields at the east end of the campus. 
The high skill levels and quality of play is no accident. Thanks to the work of people such as Warren Roth, soccer director of Special Olympics Interna­tional, this competition is now sanc­tioned by FIFA, the international governing board of soccer, the referees are sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation, and each team en­tered is sanctioned by its country's respective federation. 
"It is important to us as a sports pro­gram to get the proper international sanctioning," says Roth. "The men­tally retarded are as capable, properly trained, of doing these things on a high level. We are trying to make this a soc­cer program, where the participants happen to be mentally retarded. 
A committee of volunteers set up by Duane Hartzler, the soccer coach at nearby Goshen College, has helped to give this tournament a polished, well­organized touch. 
division of play. 
In Sunday's action, Chile impressed everyone with its skill level in defeating El Salvador 5-0. 
Forward Francisco Salas had a goal and an assist, including a beautiful feed to Renaldo Reyes, who headed it home. On the play Reyes had crossed behind Salas, who was carrying the ball to the right corner. He had tapped Salas on the shoulder as he crossed, so Salas waited until Reyes called for the pass by raising his haild. The perfect pass to Reyes' head completed the play. 
Brazil and Ireland met in the proced­ing match, and Brazil scored a hard­fought 5-2 victory. 
Brazil's fourth goal showed just how skilled these players are. Right midfielder Oliveira Paulo sent a long pass from midfield to the left corner, and forward Barbosa Marcelo took the pass in stride, dribbled in and blasted past the Irish keeper. 
The Chileans won the last Interna­tional Summer Special Olympic Games 
ABC airs ceremonies tonight 
By LIZ PANZICA ments made were not much different Observer Staff from that of a football game except 
that the lighting was totally different 
For the first time in the history of than normal." the 1987 International Summer Spe­Also, stages and special boxes were cial Olympics Games, the Opening placed on the field to accomodate Ceremonies will be aired as a special celebrities appearing at the on national television. Ceremonies. 
The ABC Television Network pur­chased the rights to the 1987 Games. Special flights were arranged by A two hour edited version of the private plane to rush part of the pro­opening ceremonies will be shown on duction staff to California to finish ABC at 8:00 central time. editing in time for the special to air. 
According to Paul Shefrin, ABC En­ABC brought in truckloads of equip­tertainment spokesman, ABC bought ment to televise the Games. They also the rights to the games because "they set-up several mobile offices outside have a belief in the Special Olympics the stadium for their staff. movement." He added that ABC ABC's Wide World of Sports will would also like to make television also devote their entire August 15 viewers aware of Special Olympics. show on the International Games. The 
Approximately 100 ABC staff and show will air at 4:30p.m. central time. crew are in South Bend for the Games. World of Sports has done segments on Said Shefrin, "The special arrange-the games in the past. 
~ -~·-----­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 2 



~.> .... 
SW1mm1ng 
Aquatic 7:30 a.m.-8:30 Head Coaches Meeting 
9:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. 
· Trials: 200m Freestyle lOOm Backstroke 4 x 50m Freestyle Relay 

2:00p.m.-6:00p.m. Trials: 25m Backstroke 15m Unassisted Swim Highlight Night lm Diving, Finals Rounds 4 & 5 

alhlehcs Urack & heidi 

Athletics 8:00a.m.-8:45a.m. Athletics Coaches Meeting ( astro-turf) Trials: 9:00a.m.-11:00 a.m. 
2k Race Walk (off track Jake Klein Baseball Field) 9:00a.m. -10:30 a.m. 
lOOm Dash (2 track) 

10:00 a.m. -10:30 a.m. 
Wheelchair Shot Put (astro-turf) 10:30 a.m.-11:00 a.m. 
400m Race Walk 

11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Frisbee Throw for Distance (softball sectors) 
11:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. 400m Dash (Pentathlon) 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 4 x lOOm Relay 1:30 p.m. -2:00p.m. 
30m Wheelchair Slalom (East Track) 3:00p.m. 
Celebrity Challenge Competion West Track 
·f 
basketball 

Basketball 8:30a.m. -12:30 p.m. 
Team Competition ACC Arena ACC Auxiliary Gym Clay High School St. Joseph High School Darden School 

1:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. 
Team Practice Intramural Gym ACC Auxiliary Gym Clay High School St. Joseph's High 
Darden School 

6:30 p.m. Inaugural Game ACC Arena 8:30a.m. -10:00 p.m. Basketball Information 
Center ACC Gate 1 

howling 
Bowling 1:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. Doubles Competition 

gymnastiCS 
Gymnastics 8:30a.m. -Gymnasium opens up for warm-ups 9:50a.m. -Parade Of Athletes 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Trials -Level III 
Optionals Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars Parallel Bars High Bars Rhythmic Pommel Horse 

Rhythmic Compulsories 12:00 p.m. -2:00p.m. Coaches meeting for Draw 
12:30 p.m. -Gymnasium opens for warm-ups 
1:50 p.m. -Parade of Athletes 2:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
Finals -Level I 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars Parallel Bars High Bars 
5:30p.m.-Gymnasium opens for warm-ups 6:50-Parade of athletes 7:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Finals -Level I 
Compulsories Floor Exercises Vault Balance Beam Uneven Bars 

soccer 

Soccer 9:00a.m. -7 p.m. Round Robin Pool Play 
softball 
Softball 9:00a.m. -5:30p.m. Tournament Competition 

volleyball 
Volleyball 
9:00a.m.-9:00p.m. 
B3 vs. B4 
C3 vs. C4 
Al vs. A3 
Bl vs. B3 
Cl vs. C3 
Al vs. A4 
Bl vs. B4 
Cl vs. C4 
E3 vs. E4 
F3 vs. F4 
Dl vs. D3 
El vs. E3 
Fl vs. F3 
Dl vs. D4 
El vs. E4 
Fl vs. F4 
G3 vs. G4 
H3 vs. H4 
13 vs. H4 
Jl vs. J3 
Gl vs. G3 
Hl vs. H3 
11 vs. 13 
J2 vs. J3 

cycling 

Cycling4:30p.m. Volunteer Meeting and Placement 5:00-6:00 Warm-up 5 km 6:00-7:00 Finals 5km 6:30p.m. 5 km Awards 

equestrian events 
Equestrian 
10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Showmanship 
2:00p.m.-6:00p.m. Dressage 
roller skating 

Roller Skating 9:00-12:00 Finals School Figures and Freestyles 4:30p.m. Volunteer Check In 5:00p.m. Warm Up For Highlighted Events 5:45p.m. Doors Open To Spectators 6:00p.m. Highlights 7:30p.m. Session Over 

!able tennis 

Table Tennis 9:00-5:00 Practice Gym #2 ACC 6:00-7:30 Trials Tennis 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.,m. Finals -Singles 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. Finals -Doubles 
3:00p.m. -5:00p.m. Finals -Doubles 

tennis 
Tennis 

10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Finals -Singles 1:00 p.m. -3:00p.m. Finals -Doubles 
3:00p.m.-5:00p.m. Finals-Doubles 

v.etghtlifting 
Weightlifting 

Dead Lift Competition 1:30 p.m.-3:00p.m. Dead Lift Competition 
TODA Y'S CLINICS 9:00-9:45 a.m. 
Weightlifting with Arnold Schwarzenegger, Washington Hall 
11:30 
Baseball with Steve Garvey, Stepan Center Field 
--------~------------­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 3 

Parade of Athletes unites the world 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
It was a time when all fighting stopped, peace was heard in the echoes and the only language was the language of cheer. 
They marched, carrying their na­tional flags, smiling and waving to the crowd. The Parade Of Athletes at last night's Opening Ceremonies reinforced the Special Olympics goal of "Uniting The World." 
The Olympians, from 72 different countries, paraded around the Stadium with their coaches, hosts and ambas­sadors. Greece, the country in which the idea of Olympic competition was born, marched first. And for the next hour and a half, the audience was cap­tivated by the 71 countries that fol­lowed. 
ABC sportscaster Frank Gifford, who narrated the event, introduced and wel­comed each delegation. "Let them know they're welcome. Let them know we love them," Gifford told the crowd. Each time, the audience chanted, waved and applauded. They waved banners from Wisconsin, flags from Britain and shouted in their native lan­guages. Whenever there was a gap in the show, the audience tried to wave blue and yellow sheets of paper to make a "wave." The result was a flutter of colors that evoked a positive response from the crowd. 
When the U.S. Navy Atlantic Fleet flew over the Stadium, there were cheers and sighs. And when the first brief but loud fireworks display com­menced, it took many Olympians by surprise. There was a momentary, in­tense silence before the applause. 
The United States, received the loudest round of applause. Each of the fifty states marched separately after all the other countries were finished. And when the hosting Indiana delega­tion emerged from the tunnel, the spec­tators burst into a sustaining roar. 
A John Phillip Sousa march accom­panied the cheers as delegation after delegation, athlete after athlete, circled the Stadium and settled into their respective groups. Eunice Ken­nedy Shriver, founder of the Special Olympics, Father Theodore Hesburgh, former University of Notre Dame pres­ident and actor Don Johnson were among the dignitaries who waved to the passing delegations. 
Politicians, entertainers and athletes 

-
served as ambassadors who marched with the national and state delegations. Actor William Hurt, who accompanied the Alaska delegation, embraced the Olympians and waved their arms in gestures of victory. Actress Marlee Matlin, who was with the Jamaican Olympians, spoke to the crowd through sign language. However, the only real stars during the Parade of Athletes were the Olympians themselves. 
"Tonight, they cheer for you," Eunice Kennedy Shriver later told them, "You are the stars and the world is watching you." The Stadium was filled to capacity with an audience who spoke different languages, shared dif­ferent beliefs and lived thousands of miles apart. But for the short time that they were there, they were all linked by the joy of the Olympians. 
"Courage, Skill, Sharing, Joy" read the banner that hung above the field. The Parade of Athletes fulfilled this decree. They proved that with dedica­tion and faith, the dream to which Eunice Kennedy Shriver gave birth some twenty years ago, can succeed in uniting the world. 

WELCOME! Olympians, Coaches, l!t Family to The 1987 International Special Olympics Soaps, Salads, Appetizen, Desaerta Unique Sandwich Menu: Beeraad Wlae Casual Atmosphere•Italian sausage •Gyros •Italian meatball • Croissants PLUS: • Beef and company •Old Chicago FootbaU Catering (TaUgaten) 3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches• and many more! Meat aad Cheese Trays Special Boxed Lunches Large Screen Satellite TV University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 Located south of Service Merchandise Mon-Thurs 11 :30-1 0:00 Fri-Sat 11 :30-11 :00 Sunday 12:00-10:00  


The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 4 
Free phone calls home provide fun and emotion 



Hello 
By SUSAN MULLEN and CATHY STACY Observer Staff 

Special Olympians can "reach out and touch someone" anywhere around the world .. .for free. 
Thanks to the long distance services provided this week by AT&T, athletes can share their excitement with those people they love the most -their par­ents, families, and friends who may be as far away as India or Japan. 
"The Games are marvelous," Rene Dupont told his cousin and his parents. "I told them it is raining here, but the weather is fine in France," he said in his native language." 
Chirendra Satyal, coach of a Nepal delegation, called to check on his children and to make arrangements with the national director of Special Olympics in Nepal. "It was 10:30 at night there," he said smiling, "and we had to wake them up." 
Whether the athletes want to talk about their own new discoveries or simply to hear the voices of those at home, they can talk for three minutes anywhere on the continent or two minutes overseas on AT&T's phones in Olympic Town. 
"We're doing pretty good with the countries and the cities-that's all they need to tell us. They need to know the phone number in that country," said Maureen Gilday, AT&T area manager for Indiana and special events coordin­ator. 
Colorful tags mark a large world map behind the AT&T volunteers who are keeping track of some of the more un­usual places that the Olympians have called. 
"We have had calls anywhere from here in Indiana to Zimbabwe, Niger, many countries in Western Europe, Ar­gentina, Monaco and San Juan." said Gilday 
Athletes have also placed many calls to the Middle East and one to the Seyc­helles Islands off the coast of Africa. 
"There is no limit to the number of phone calls people can make, but if there is a line we ask that they only make one and come back later," Gilday said, as athletes began to crowd around the tables waiting to use one of their five phones. 
According to AT&T volunteer John Kundtz, conversations have also been very emotional, with people "crying on the other (end) of the line." On Wed­nesday afternoon, parents will also have an opportunity to call home. 
"At first we had trouble with one gentleman who spoke only fluent French and we couldn't converse with him," but most calls have been going through smoothly, he said. "We're having a great time. I'll be here many, many hours." 
Most of the volunteers are AT&T employees who have offered to help at the Games. To handle the large num­bers of people who have been taking advantage of this service, about 100 vol­unteers work three shifts during the morning, at noon, and during the late afternoon until Olympic Town closes at 4p.m.. 
The opportunity to share stories with those who couldn't be here to attend the Games has attracted many athletes already. Calls will probably increase once the final competition for medals begins, but for people like Tormad Ber­gem, calling long distance has kept him in touch with the important people he hasn't seen the past few days. 
"I talked to my wife -I told her it was great and asked about my dog." 
Member FDIC 
---------------------.---------------------------------------------~--~----~------------------------------------~--~--~ 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 5 

The ObservertFred Dobie o:.ntertainment, >tnd daily

Olympic tQwn, a place whe1·e athletes p~arade!!. can get away from it all and ~njoy 
By JIM RILEY Observer Staff 
Yogi Bear, Tony the Tiger, and even the Red Lobster have been wandering about Olympic Town as part of the area's program of festival entertain­ment. 
Olympic Town is an area where ath­letes and volunteers can get away from the hustle and bustle of competition for awhile and enjoy constant entertain­ment and activities. Spectators and are kept out of the area to allow the athletes some time to themselves. 
Each day at 1:30, a parade forms up and winds its way through Olympic Town, according to John Lute, a coord­inator of the entertainment and an em­ployee at Notre Dame's radiation lab­oratory. 
Featured in the parades this week 

Olympic town attractions allows athletes relaxation 
will be such notables as Hardee Moose, Snap, Crackle & Pop, and Peter Panda. A wheelchair drill team will also par­ticipate. 
High school bands provide the parade music, and the whole ensemble is led by a Notre Dame leprechaun. 
Each day's parade features a differ­ent participating country. 
Miss Indiana and Mary Lou Retton will also appear in Olympic Town this week. 
Olympic town also gives the "stars" a chance to mingle with the athletes. 
Roving entertainment is also pro­vided every 15 minutes by jugglers, bagpipe bands, jumprope skippers, and clowns who have come from as far away as Florida and Texas, Lute said. 
There is also a tent in which bands, singers, and a variety of other acts pro­vide entertainment all day long. 
Carnival atmosphere created for athletes, parents 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Observer Staff 
While competing is the key aspect of the Special Olympics, relaxing and en­joying friends is an intergral part of the Games as well. 
According to Co-Director of Olympic Town, Ann Lagomarcino, the main function of the facility "is to provide an outdoor recreation center open to athletes and coaches." 
The amount of time spent participat­ing in an actual event is short compared to the length of time the athlete is visit­ing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, according to Lagomarcino. 
"The kids need something to do while not competing," she said. 
Lagomarcino said that she and Mikki Dobski, co-director of Olympic Town, have been planning the recreation site for over two years. 
"We needed to prepare for two years because we want to keep the athletes entertained," she added. 
The sponsors, who have donated products and services to contribute to the carnival-type atmosphere of the area, have been solicited to donate their wares, according to Lagomarcino. 
National and International sponsors include AT & T, Civitan International, Crown International, Gates Chevrolet, Hardees, IBM, IGA, Kelloggs, Knights of Columbus, Merrill Lynch, Pan Am, Proctor &Gamble, Red Lobster, U.C.T. (United Commercial Travelers), and Coca Cola. 
"The Olympic Town concept has al­ways been tied with The Special Olym­pics at both the state and international levels," Lagomarcino said. 
She explained the Special Olympics have always had an area for the ath­letes to relax. 
"This is the best Olympic Town yet," she added. 
Steve Wuscina, decorations liason to Olympic Town, said that this town is the best yet because "this is the largest Olympic Town ever." 
He added there is more for the ath­letes to do with advanced computer games and more variety in the types of entertainment available. 
"I went to the Louisiana Special Olympics, and we have worked on im­proving Olympic Town from what they did," Wuscina explained. 
Part of the improvements can be con­tributed to the volunteers, corporate sponsors and the decorations. 
"The decorations committee really wanted to give the Special Olympics a style." he said. 
Wuscina worked on creating a car­nival type atmosphere in the Olympic Town. "We wanted to give it the look," he added. 


-~­

The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 6 
Athletes shine 
By PETE GEGEN Observer Staff 
In front of a crowd of 300, the weightlifting competition took place on the main stage of Washington Hall Sun­day. Athletes in the lower weight classes took the stage in the morning for the bench press competition, fol­lowed by the upper weight classes in the afternooon. 
In addition to the lifting, the crowd enjoyed intense pre-lift routines and colorful celebrations by the athletes. 
Russel Tillson made the sign of the cross before successfully lifting 200 pounds in the second round. Samfred Anfrasomsek of Washington preferred th~meditative approach to his lift, cl ing his eyes and concentrating bef re lying back. His method paid off in the third round as he slowly but suc­cessfully lifted 200 pounds. 
As Troy Johnson of California was in­troduced in the second round, he looked around the auditorium, finally spotting his mother in the second row. In what appeared to be an attempt to reassure himself, or perhaps calm the nerves of his mother, Troy said, "I can do it." 
Troy did in fact do it, lifting 75 pounds over his chest. After the lift he sprang to is feet, found his mother again, and asked, "How was that?" 
The most impressive performance came from Ronnie Smith of Louisiana. Because he has no legs, his coach strapped an extra-long belt under the bench and around Smith's waist. Smith easily benched 215 pounds in the third round of competition. 
But White stole the show in that round 
after he benched a personal-best 145 
pounds. With guest-spotter Arnold 
Schwarzenegger looking on, White cel­
ebrated by going into an Incredible 
Hulk flex routine, drawing applause 
and laughter from the audience. 


Family center offers comfort to relatives 
By JIM RILEY Observer Staff 
More than 3000 families of Special Olympians have been thrust into un­familiar and sometimes chaotic sur­roundings this week, but the all-volunteer Family Center has been set up to make things a little less con­fusing and a little more enjoyable. 
Families are registering m the lobby on the second floor of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center where they receive green ribbons and name tags. 
They then can move on to the hospitality lounge in the Monogram Room. 
"We have daily entertainment, as well as giving out directions and infor­mation," said Bonnie Shaffer, a volun­teer with the Junior League of South Bend, the group which is running the Center. 
The hospitality lounge has been set up to give families a chance to relax, grab some refreshments, and escape the heat and humidity. "It also gives them a chance to meet other families from other countries," said Shaffer. 
"The Junior League of South Bend is a local women's service organization," Shaffer said. All the members are re­quired to work at least once during the week. 
"There are about 250 volunteers in­volved in the project in all," said Pat Newman, Family Center chairman. 
Newman said preparation for the Family Center has been going on for almost two years. The Junior League also worked on the Indiana State Games in 1986 and 1987, Newman said. "They were like our rehearsal for this event," she added. 
VOTED MICHIGAN-s 
"BEST BRUNCH OF -~AR"
Joill Us 11IE 1 .r.. 
· All Yoa
Ev~s:r-7 •8 95 Cart To Eat 
t·30 1111 (UDder 10'W3 Pll • ...15) 
TRY OUR BUFFETS FRIDAY -NIGHT SEAFOOD BUFFET 
· eo Items -AD You todloolelrom •10 95 ~roE•t
Serted • (UDder 10 S-10 pm $U5) 
SATURDAY NIGJIT PRIMF. RIB BUFFET 
:.V;! •10.95 c:lrEat 
WE HAVE BANQUETFACnsnESFOR 
•Cim lemdciiiS •BosiDess lleetiDp · 
•Weddilg lec!pliau •hcfptiool of Any Type 


DOWNTOWN NILES 213 N. FRONT 684-7774 
Visit the area's 
best known eating a drinking establishment and take a 
•
in t1me ... 

BUSINESS HOURS 

MON-THUR •.... llAM-lOPM FRI & SAT ...... 11AM-12PM "SUNDAY ....... 9:30AM-10PM 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 7 
Bleier comes back to NO for ISSOG 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
So much has changed at Notre Dame since Rocky Bleier played for the Fightin' Irish football team in the mid­sixties. 
Before Bleier came to the University, there was no organized effort to help the mentally handicapped citizens of the area. But by the time he graduated in 1968, he had helped to establish the "Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Youth As­sociation For Retarded Citizens." It was at the same time that Bleier got involved with Special Olympics. 
"There was no one really coordinated group for the mentally handicapped people of the area," said Bleier. "So, in 1968 I helped to combine groups so that we had one organization. 
"I got involved at the Northern In­diana Childrens' Hospital," Bleier added, "and then I worked at the Logan Center during summer school and during my senior year. My college roommate, Dan Harshman, is now Ex­ecutive Director of the Logan Center." 
Bleier went on to play football for the Pittsburgh Steelers. He was a halfback on two Super Bowl teams. But he never abandoned his dedication to the Special Olympics cause. In Pittsburgh, he worked with Special Olympics and the "Association For Retarded Citizens". He now sits on the International Special Olympics Board. 
"The main reason I came to the Games is to lead the Pennsylvania delegation, along with Rafer Johnson," said Bleier. "It's always nice to be back at Notre Dame. But it's especially nice to be here for this. The best feeling is to see the joy and feeling in the faces of the athletes. They're excited whether 

The ObservertFred Dobie 

Canada takes soccer game 
they win or lose." 
"In its 20 years of existence, Special Olympics has allowed so many athletes to have so many wonderful experi­ences," he remarked. "They are now told they are integral parts of society. Before that, this was unheard of. Some countries never even admitted they had any mentally retarded back then. Now, they are represented at the Games. This awareness is needed." 
Bleier has been wandering around the Rolfs Aquatic Center signing autographs, shaking hands and giving his congratulations and encourage­ment to the athletes. 
Mter one swimmer finished his relay, he asked Bleier if he could try on his Super Bowl ring. "Sure," he said. "It looks good on you, champ." 
"Now I really have something to tell everyone," the Olympian told him as he ran off to share his news with his teammates. 

By PETE GEGEN Observer Staff 
Canada and Arizona were deadlocked 0-0 at halftime of a hot and windy soccer match Sunday afternoon when Canada forward Mike Chardir was asked why there was no scoring. 
"We couldn't because of the wind," he said, but then his face suddenly took on a look of eagerness, "but we have the wind this half." 
Itonly took three minutes for Chardir to score the first goal in the second half, giving Canada the lead. Chardir maneuvered between three Arizona defenders before sending the ball low into the right corner. 
Chardir just missed another goal five minutes later. · Sukhinder Saggue fed Chardir on a beautiful side-kick volley from near midfield, but Chardir's shot deflected wide to the right. 
Canada forward Martin Pogacnik made up for the missed opportunity when he knocked home the ensuing cor­ner kick. 
Arizona kept the pressure on the Canadian defense, however, as forward Eric Wilson narrowly missed on several shots from the right side, and Henry Lopez's long blasts couldn't find the back of the net. 
Midfielder Don Skiba turned in the most critical plays for Canada late in the second half, making several steals and moving the ball forward with ease. 
Canada went on to win this B-Division game, 2-0. 
Home...cooked food for the whole family No meal over $6.50  
Welcome Special Olympians  
1976 South 11th Just 10 minutes north of ND Belle Plaza (616) 684-2769 Niles, Ml 49120  

''Let the g~ 

mes begin! '' 
• 


---<.-G,,,;'.i~:--·;'-~--­


The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 10 
Indian girl's drawing typifies unity of EXPO Center 
By MARY HOWENSTINE Observer Staff 

To fully appreciate the beauty and significance of the EXPO Center, lo­cated at the Moreau Theatre Complex on St. Mary's campus, is to see a pencil drawing by Murtuza Ladivalla, 16, of India. 
Entitled "Special Olympics -Uniting the World", the drawing is on display at the Very Special Arts International Exhibit in the Moreau Little Theatre Lobby. It shows Peruvians, Nor­wegians, Americans, Italians, Chinese coming together to meet each other and to learn from each other. That's exactly what's happening at the EXPO Center this week. 
The EXPO Center was designed to provide an educational and cultural ex­perience through displays, clinics, 
demonstrations,  and  participatory  
centers.  
On  Sunday  afternoon  at  the  

O'Laughlin Auditorium visitors were treated to a cultural event extraor­dinaire. The Bay-Area Performing Arts Troupe gave a song and dance perfor­mance taken in part from their 1987 touring show, ''Good Timin. ''' The show featured 36 mentally handicapped young adults who performed a 50s revue including "Do You Wanna Dance?", "Let the Good Times Roll", and "Heard It Through the Grapevine." 
Other entertainment throughout the week includes a Disabled Drill Team, magic shows and fashion shows. On O'Laughlin Lawn, a skating rink will be open Monday through Wednesday. Clinics will be offered in skateboarding, alpine and cross-country skiing. A lyricist creating on-the-spot per­sonalized songs will perform on O'Laughlin Lawn Monday through Friday. 
The EXPO Center offers par­ticipatory centers for artists to dabble with origami, weaving, sculpture and stenciling. Other creative play is avail­able on IBM's Programs for the Dis­abled. On one program messages can be left for people. At the "Blocks and Marbles" exhibit, materials are avail­able to create mazes and run marbles through it, or visitors can help build the Special Olympics logo using LEGOS. 
Informative health-related exhibits include Community of Caring Adoles­cent Pregnancy Exhibit and a Health Fair. 
One absolute "can't miss" exhibit is the U.S. Olympic Hall of Fame. Original paintings of such Hall of Famers as Cassius Clay (Muhammad Ali), Peggy Fleming, Jesse Owens, and 1980 Hockey Team will be on display in the lower level of the O'Laughlin Auditorium all week. 

"Sidewalk surfing" was just one of tbe many exhibits that could be seen at the EXPO Center. The Observer!Fred Dobie 


-
DOMINdS PIZZA 
o~rfJJr 

~ 
The best time to eat a pizza is when it's fresh from the oven. But home-delivered pizza is almost never that fresh. Unless of course, it's from DOMINO'S PIZZA . Unlike other pizzerias, Domino's Pizza has perfected a super-efficient way to custom-make each and every pizza. Very, very quickly. And because we make your pizza faster, we can deliver it in less than 30 minutes from the time 
you call. 
If your pizza is not delivered to your door within 30 minutes, we'll take '3 off the price. 
HOURS: 

4:30 
p.m.-1 a.m. Sun.-Thurs. 

4:30 
p.m.-2 a.m. Fri. & Sat. 


Help Us Support Special Olympics 
When you place your order on Tuesday, Aug. 4th and Wednesday, Aug. 5th, mention this ad and thru your support we will donate 50¢ to Special Olympics. 
r---------------------------------·-----------------~----------------,
MONDAY THURSDAY
DINNER FOR FOUR 
MADNESS THINK THICK 
One 16" Pizza with 2 items of your choice 

$1 09 9 $600
Four Cokes 
$7 9 ~STAX 

Enjoy a 12" thick crust pizza . .. . . . I with extra cheese and pep· All for only '10.99 plus tax 
EnJOY a 16 . p1zza w1th 1 1tem I peroni. Offer good on Thurs· of your cho1ce. Offer good on I days only 
YOU SAVE $2.04 Mondaysonly. I LIMIT4.PERCUSTOMER 
YOU SAVE $1.64 IYOU SAVE $2.74 
~---------------------------------L-----------------J----------------~ 
OUR PIZZA IS FRESHER. BECAUSE WE'RE FASTER. 
Made-to-order and delivered in 30 minutes or less. 
Try Us! 

OPEN FOR LUNCH 
*232-2997 277-8700 
816 Portage Ave. 51400 U.S. 31 North 
277-2151 289-7100 233-3133 
4333 W. Western

1835 S. Bend Ave 1428 Calvert St. 
* OPEN FOR LUNCH 11 a.m. EVERY DAY 

II 
DOMINO'S · PIZZA . . DELIVERS® 
· · ®FREE. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 Limited delivery area. 

The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 11 
Coaches enjoy Games, encourage participants 
By ANDREA ROGERS 
Observer Staff 
For the last ten years Jim Burgess has increased his involvement with the Kansas State Special Olympics. He has gone from a walk-on volunteer to Pres­ident of the Kansas State Board for the Games. 
He described the whole experience as very healthy for everyone involved and a valuable source of pride. The ath­letes' sense of achievement is expected but Burgess had a lot to say for the families, friends, and coaches as well. Siblings of the competitors are proud to sit with parents and friends in the stands and cheer on the athletes. 
Burgess spoke very warmly of the Olympians with whom he is involved and shares their excitement over seeing so many different people and places. For a lot of the athletes, he said, this is the first time they have been away from home and parents. Such is the case for Theda Bently from Dutchess City who was thrilled at the prospect of seeing Whitney Houston, her favorite star 
According to Burgess, the coaches are selected based on their long term involvement and enthusiasm. It is an honor to be asked to accompany the Special Olympians to the Games. His reward is seeing the sense of ac­complishment and pure enjoyment of these competitors. 
Gus Alverez, Phillipines track and field coach is here with two -other coaches and 14 athletes. When asked what he especially enjoyed about his time spent with the Special Olympians, Alverez said, "It's more of an ego trip for me. I see the kids smile and every­thing is good." 
Unlike most of the other groups here for the Games, the Philippine delega­tion was informed of their participation only one month in advance. The coaches had been sent to Hong Kong for training before bringing all 14 na­tional medal winners to the States for the Games. The Philippines have been holding Special Olympics Games on the school, regional, provicial, and national levels since 1977. 
17-year-old Mildred Holbert, from Sedalia, Missouri, has been preparing for the Seventh Annual International Summer Olympics Games for months. She said she is a bit nervous because of all the people who will be watching her swim the backstroke. But she has her own wn personal coach with her here to calm her fears. 
Susie Mueller, one of 20 or more coaches for the 64 Missouri athletes, was asked to be Mildred's trainer for the regional competitions. Her involve­ment began when she was coaching soc­cer and swimming which led her to her work with Mildred, who recently won second and third place medals at her fourth State Special Olympics. These 
two  work  well  together  and  have  
formed  a  friendship  through  swim­ 
ming.  

The athletes and their coaches get to know each other in a unique way. This bond is different from a regular student -teacher relationship because athletes and coaches share the same feelings of accomplishment, frustration, and joy. 
After competitions, these expres­sions appear on the faces of both trainers and Olympians. 

tt 
i 
~ 

-~ 

\­

.• ~ 
\.. 

t'be 0~ Carroll Coaches play an important role in each special athlete's life. A coa8 here helps a gymnast through her routine on the uneven parallel bars in the ACC fteldbouse. 
HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S AHERO. The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of The Knights of Columbus works this hard the Special Olympics. We're proud of each of because we believe volunteers make a big the heroic athletes who are participating in difference in the Games ... and the world. the Summer Games. That's why the Knights' donated 21 million The K of Chelps out in lots of ways. We're man-hours to community service and made coordinating the volunteer involvement of $67 million worth of charitable disbursements nearly 5,000 Kof Cmembers and their last year. ($11.3 million of that total families ... contributing a quarter million benefitted programs for mentally dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... retarded citizens.) arranging housing in the South Bend It's why the Knights received area for athletes' families ... and the President's Volunteerrecruiting more than 1,200 vol­Action Award from Presidentunteers for the opening Reagan for "Mobilizationceremonies of the '87Games. of Volunteers."We're also pleased to have provided the printing of And it's why we're proud 25,000 copies of a to be part of the Summer commemorative poster I Games. by noted artist John L. Terelak. .1 The Knights of Columbus is a -­Catholic,1 family, fraternal benefit -­society with 1.4 million dues-.paying members worldwide.  


r------------------------------..-----------------------­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 12 
® 

!ipecialOlyJJJpic!i 
~crown® 
PRINCIPAL SPONSOR OF 1987 INTERNATIONAL SUMMER GAMES 


Volleyball competition continues at SMC 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer staff 

Volleyball action swung into high gear as the eight divisions of teams squared off at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Division I for the females includes Belgium, Chile and South Dakota. The morning match between Chile and South Dakota proved the Chile's team domination by winning the match in two quick games 15-3, 15-1. 
Then Chile followed up by defeating Belgium in two straight games. 
Chile's women's team made tough top spin serves which enabled the team to dominate play, making returns dif­ficult for their opponents. 
The most intense competition so far has been in the Men's Division I. It in­
cludes,  Panama,  Tennessee,  
Maryland, Mississippi  and  Washing­ 
ton.  

Two of the most exciting games were played against Panama's highly­skilled team. In the morning match, Panama defeated Maryland 15-1, 15-4 and then defeated Mississippi 15-1, 15-6. 
Close games between Tennessee and Washington proved to be very exciting matches for the crowd to watch. Ten-· nessee won the match in three games, 15-8, 10-15, and 16-14. 
Tennessee then turned in a dominant match against Mississippi 15-12, 15-1. 
"An interesting point about the com­petition has been that the level of stra­tegic play has improved a great deal from the 1983 Games," said Ruth Nel­son of the professional volleyball team Dallas Belles. 
''Four teams even had video cameras and taped matches so the team could view them after the match," added Nel­son. 
Division II, Group C includes, Arkansas, Indiana, New York and Vir­gina. One of the closest matches was between Arkansas and New York, 15-11, 5-15, 15-11. 
One of the most enthusiastic teams at the competition is from California. Pre-game drills include a great deal of hitting and coach involvement in get­ting the team fired up. 
Participants and coaches said they were very postive and excited about the first day of competition. 
Nelson said, "If the first day of com­petition is any indication of team play, the medal rounds will be very excit­ing." 
Thursday, a volleyball highlight will include two former 1984 Olympic Team members, Claudia Lee and Rose Major Powell. Jean Beautery from the Los An­geles Starlights will appear in the hightlight. 
Runners brave humidity and August heat 
By SUSAN MULLEN Observer Staff 
Despite the sweltering heat and mor­ning showers again on Sunday, the spirit and determination of the Special Olympians shines through. 
Since they compete outdoors, parti­cipants in the track and field events are especially susceptible to the effects of the soaring temperatures and high humidity that have blanketed the Mic­hiana area. 
Four young runners from Oklahoma, however, seem to defy this exhausting weather. Manny Kinley, Roger Tipton, Barry Martin and Charlie Ray com­peted in the 4x400m relay Sunday af­ternoon at Cartier Field, coming in second with a time of 4: 15.1. 
Catching his breath after his leg of the relay, Barry Martin explained that he had run the 1500m just before the relay and earned his best time in that event. Together with his contribution to the 4x400m, Martin raced around the track 10 times within an hour in the 90-plus degree heat. 
"The heat didn't bother me much,"Martin said after race. "It felt alright." 
Kinley, Tipton and Ray didn't seem bothered by the weather either, since they are accustomed to it. "It's per­fect," says Oklahoma coach Adrian Dewendt. "We're looking forward to the flllals on Tuesday and Wednesday," continued Dewendt. 
The Oklahoma relay team will feel right at home for the next few days, since hot, humid days and nights will be continuing through most of the week. 

Salutes: 
Atlas/Soundolier, Fenton, Missouri Beldon Wire and Cable, Richmond, Indiana Boardwalk and Baseball, Haines City, Florida The Bradley-Toner Agency, Inc., Mishawaka, Indiana Carol Cable Co., Pawtucket, Rhode Island Cetec Vega, Inc., Elmonte, California Community Light and Sound, Chester, Pennsylvania Electro-Voice, Inc., Buchanan, Michigan Klark Teknik Electronics, Farmingdale, New York Koontz-Wagner Electric, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
Micro Innovations, Winter Springs, Florida 
Pro Co Sound, Kalamazoo, Michigan 
Sharp Communications of South Bend, South Bend, Indiana 
S~uford Mills, Hickory, North Carolina 
Starcase, Munster, Indiana 

Tascam, Inc., Montebello, California 
Tripp Lite, Inc., Chicago, Illinois 
Whiteford Truck Lines, Inc., South Bend, Indiana 
for soundly uniting with our commitment. 
CROWN INTERNATIONAL • 1718 W MISHAWAKA ROAD • ELKHART. INDIANA 46517 • (219) 294-8000 


Kentucky volleyball team brings unity to Games 
By ANDREA ROGERS Observer Staff 
When it comes to teamwork the Ken­
tucky volleyball team has a slight ad­
vantage over everyone else. They have 
been playing together for quite a while, 
since they all live at the same residence 
school. 
Since 1893, the Stuart Home School 
in Frankfort, Kentucky has been pro­
viding mentally handicapped students 
from all over the world with a commu­
nity living experience. The Stuart fam­
ily has been running this institution for 
three generations. 
The 350 residents range in age from eight to 76 and live as independently as possible in brick houses all over the campus. 
Accordmg to volleyball and swim­ming coach Peggy McNabb, "The stu­dents there are living a normal life with their peers." 
McNabb said the recreation depart­ment is the heart of the school. Regular activities include swimming in the sum­mer, horseback riding every morning, and many team sports. The majority of the residents are very active in these programs. 
The Stuart Home School also empha­sizes basic education with classes such as Science, Reading, Math, Social Skills, Weaving and Ceramics. Some groups are taught fundamental readi­ness skills like counting and determin­ing size difference and colors. 
The school includes a Catholic Church that offers interdenominational services at which the students perform everything but the sermon. The pianist is an older blind man and the choir, complete with chimes, performs regu­larly. 
FLORAL CO. INC. 

GIFTS IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 

SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 



WE DELIVER! COME IN AND BROWSE Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 


The school functions like a self­contained mini-town. Students help or­ganize the weekly soeials and seasonal formals as well as performing daily re­sponsibilities. 
"If they have a talent we put it to use," said McNabb in reference to the boy who acts as the resident disc jockey at the dances. 
The Stuart Home School volleyball, basketball, and flag football teams all have regular seasons during which they compete against local teams up to 50 miles away. 
The volleyball team was told as recently as May that they would be coming to these Games, at which time they went into intensive training. 
A swimmer and a weightlifter are also representing the school among the 70 Kentucky athletes. 
Thirty-eight year-old Craig Crane, originally from New York State, is a member of the volleyball team. Accor­ding to Craig, the team began by playing against the teachers and then moved on to regional and state Special Olympics Games. 
Olive Crane, his mother, spoke en­thusiastically about her first visit to the Games. She stated, "It's been a long time in coming, recognition for him." 
Mrs. Crane also had good things to say about the school. She said she feels that this type of residence facility is the best for her son who is very involved in the various activities. 
According to coach McNabb, every­one at the Stuart Home School puts home before school. It's the long term involvement and sense of unity that make this school so humane and more than just a place to learn. 
The Observer-Fred Dobie An athlete serves up the ball during the volleyball competition at the Angela Athletic Facility on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The Saint Mary's College Community 
Welcomes The Athletes of the World to the 
1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games 
May your voices ring out with the joy of your accomplishments. 
. f!i

SatntMary's College 
NOTRE DAME o INDIANA 
--~------­

----------·--, 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 14 
Performing arts troupe energizes 50's-style show 

By JUDY MOLNAR 
Observer Staff 

The "Do Dahs," the "112 Notes" and the "Signers and Blacklight Troupe" make up the all-star cast from the show, "Good Timin'." 
The Bay-Arenac Performing Arts Troupe, a unique group of mentally im­paired young adults, performed this musical extravaganza in the O'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday and Sunday in conjunction with the EXPO Center. 
The Show opened with two upbeat songs -"Good Time Tonight" and the new song by Whitney Houston, "Do You Wanna Dance?" The energy from the singers and dancers caught the atten­tion of the audience from the beginning. 
Stage design included a large juke box, cut-outs of people and a large sim­mering curtain. Artist Jean Ballor used cardboard material from refrigerator boxes to create the cut-outs and the juke box. 
Effective lighting dramatized the stage sets and added to the overall en­ergy of the show. 
Poodle shirts, pink rolled down bobby socks and boys in white jackets created the 50's look. The up-tempo spirit of the music and dance were consistent with the performers' flashy costumes. 
The excitement and enthusiasm of the audience was evident when four dancers came out on stage dressed in grape outfits singing and dancing to, "Heard It Through the Grapevine." 
One of the grapes, David Davis said, "I love being a grape, its great." Davis agreed that the grapes in his group do a better job than the grapes in the tele­vision commericial for raisins. 
Back up vocals were provided by the great stage presence of the "Do Dabs" that danced and performed to such songs as, "My Boyfriend's Back," "Stop In The Name Of Love," and "If You Really Knew Me." 
Consistent with the 50's theme, Jim Hites gave his rendition of the rock-n­roll legend, Elvis Presley. Hites sang the song, "All Shook Up," with a great level of energy and played to the audi­ence's high level of enthusiasm for his performance. 
Charles Bassette gave another fine performance by singing such hits as, "My Girl," and "Do Wah Diddy." His stage performance conveyed a high level of feeling in both his expressions and stage presence. 
Bassette has been performing with the Bay-Arenac Troupe almost four years. "I like singing very much with the group," said Bassette. "I get a thrill on stage because I love giving to the audience and I think the audience loves 

it., All the stage choregraphy is directed by Mary Ellen Kessler. "There is a feeling I try to achieve with the troupe's stage direction. I do what it takes crea­tively and clean it up later. I just feed it to them and it comes back," said Kes­sler. The Bay-Arenac Performing Arts Troupe was established in 1980 as part of a music therapy program in the In­termediate School District in Bay City, Michigan. Barbara-Scott Thornburg is the founder and director of the perform­ing arts group. Thornburg was given creative freedom to start the program with her background in music therapy. "I love the stage and the feeling you get from the stage, it is like a magic. I wanted the students to have that same feeling by getting them on stage," said Thornburg. 
-----------------------------------------------------------, 
Discover the World of Fraternalism 

What is United Commercial Travelers of America? 
UCT is a non-profit fraternal benefit society founded in 1888 for the purpose ofproviding accident benefits for traveling salesmen, protecting the human rights ofits members, aiding those dependent upon them and elevating the moral and social standing of its members 
across North America. Today, UCT's 160,000 members work in a variety ofprofessions and come from diverse backgrounds. 
•Scholarship Programs •A Proud Sponsor of Special Olympics •International Junior Golf 
/ 

For Additional Information Contact David Corey-632 N. Park St~ Columbus, OH 43215, 11800/848/0123 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987 -page 15 
Housing visitors formidable task 

Today's Issue was produced by the following: 
OscoDrug... ~S 
~e 

COMBINE TO SUPPORT THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS! 
Special Olympics Commemorative Pins Are Available Exclusively At Osco Drug. 

Osco$2 99 
Price • 

Oly~npic• 


................_...._,.~
................,
.............. 
Cllony c-. 
-CIIonyC.. 

One c._.... ,.,_
l•tR·"''''·I 


f•tN·'•'lU·I 



By TIM HEALY 
Observer Staff 
With over 20,000 people coming to South Bend to attend the Games, locat­ing housing accomodations for every­one a formidable task. The Off Campus Housing Office at Notre Dame started preparing for guests at 50 different hotels many months ago. Over 3300 rooms were required. 
Sue Ewing reported, "We've been hel­ping people find accomodations in hotels within a 50 mile radius of the campus. The closer hotels were booked many many months ago." 
Some guests were forced to stay as far away as Merriville and Kalamazoo. However, the Off Campus Housing of­fice is expecting a turnover after the opening ceremonies. Visitors hoping to find a hotel closer to South Bend should feel free to contact Sue Ewing at the office. 
Notre Dame's Morris Inn is housing some very special guests. As Agnes Gloster reported, "The Morris Inn was bought out by the Shriver!Kennedy fam­ily and they are housing their guests there." 
Their guests include such celebrities as Emmanuel Lewis, Patrick Ewing, Dick Sargeant, Bart Conner, and Mary Lou Retton. "Nothing too exciting has happened so far, except that two girls were caught with their ears up against Arnold Schwarzenegger's door. Also Don Johnson is here but no one has seen him yet," said Gloster. 
Host families provide perhaps the most rewarding housing opportunities. Area residents who open their homes to Olympians learn as much about dif­ferent cultures as their guests. 
Ann Gruenig, working at the Knights of Columbus, has helped over 700 families in area homes. "Over 1500 people have been placed in area residences, and some guests are staying at Fatima Retreat House," she said. "The Knights of Columbus have done a super job. They have probably put in over 650 volunteer hours. Fur­thermore, they've transported athletes and their families to and from the air­port and to host families," Gruenig re­ported. 
Gruenig also stressed the great response from the community, ''The community has been amazing. We'll call people on the phone and ask if they can house two more guests and they say, 'Sure, come on over.'" 
She also said that her job has been interesting and fun. "I've seen grandmothers unite with grandchildren that they haven't seen for a long time." 
Gruenig recalled an amusing inci­dent when several men from Ireland appeared at the K of C just as dinner was being served. "We invited them in and they were eating and drinking and having a wonderful time. Then they said to the bartender, 'We'll be back Wednesday and Thursday; this is the best pub in town.' " 
Paul Babka Kevin Becker Marilyn Benchik Ann Biddlecom Jim Carroll Mindy Chapleau Fred Dobie Chris Donnelly Pete Gagen Tim Healy Valerie Lamanna Judy Molnar Susan Mullen Mike Murdock Liz Panzica Suzanne Poch Sean Reardon Jim Ailey Andrea Rogers Matt Sitzer Cathy Stacy Patti Tripathi Bob Tyler Joann Whitfield Joan Wrappe Kim Yuratovac 

Today's Weather 
The Gamea will con­

tinue to alzzle with ex­ceaalve heel Monday and heat Index values around 105 degrees. Hot and humid with tha high In the lower 90a and a 20 percent chance of afternoon thunderatorma. Warm and muggy Monday night with a 40 percent chance of thunderatorma mainly after midnight. low In the low to middle 70a. Not aa hot and humid Tuaaday with the high In the middle to upper808. A 50 percent chance of thundaratorma. 
Welcome Athletes & Coaches from New York State 
We wish you luck during these games. 
See you back home in New York . 
From: NYSO Board Directors NYSO Staff Coaches & Volunteers 
The Observer ISSOG Issue Monday, August 3, 1987-page 16 
•

Rais1ng Spirits 
The press b~ ,..of • Notre Dame Stadium is steamiilg hot•. The wet reporters and photo~aphers prove it. 
In the distance th~l\vo white domes ol the ACC lend thotlints ofice cream cones. But all and all; it's just hot! 
And below on the pJ.t~ field and around the arena, tije Special Olympic fans and volunteers are simmering on another order in S911tb · Bend's high ninety degree tempehture. Yes, the temperature is rising with excitement. 
Leaders instruct the crowds .POW to flash yellow and blue cards. The crowd raises them for a blue effect that flows clockwise around dttim: ·· They flip them over, and hap­pens in yellow. ,,: 
Leaders instruct the yJillow to to 
back with 

Enter Kennedies, their places. William Hurt Johnson capture the stares of the as they take their places at the ing stand. Local celebrities as Father Theodore Hesburgh and Univer­sity ~resident Edwa~d "114o¥" Malloy.
Thmgs start commg to a boil: "Up People" puts flame to an already 
bunch as ABC makes final ad­istnlents to the stage There is a long pause. Then the event unwraps with all the 
"A'"'.."''·""''·.. that gifts beneathe a tree 
bring. The Special Olympic~ Marching Band, Drill Teall'). and Flag Team appear and entertain. 
A shorter pause. Atte&n shifts iP the . south-side stage. cw; ... towers, a'portabl~booin ~nd camera\ envelope the Impresstve 
:e}tructu~. 

Barbara'tl\iandre.U: appears and ~el­comes the "" audience with Arnold Schwarzenegger. Barbera sings "Reach." perso he 
Things roll. ·most mportant thing Susan St. James narrates.the history should have, she is of the Special Olympics. spirit an(j generous Another longer break. •· It beeame much cooler 
-· 
Whitney Houston taJtes. the stage and flowed in. . : ·.. pumps-up the crowd: with "Love will ''Sta't1Jw.mlig:hti,fmd;flashe8' save the day,., and Maria Shriver in-bulbs, sbirlights in the audie troduces the procession .of Special dark sky, ... , Olympians from around the world;' · '+rEntertainm<*l)\'continued 
The march of the athletes finally John Denver arid '\Vhitney H comes to pass. The crowd breaks into leading f9 the event.'s resounding applause. The" stars are ~gbt, tmg ofth . · coming. · A mo t syiru)olic ·of the 
The Greek contingency enters the C9l1fag~us f;Pi!'Jt .and. the stadium followed by the Argentinians ·g~nero•nearts.. ·.·. ·•;; 

Jesu~" greeted the Qeremonies celebrities with arms. 'So let's ce~tbrate,'• said Bar~ara as sffe faced the mosaic of 

Christ (oftencaUed "Touchdown Jesus") with its uplifted arms on the Hesburgh MemorialLil) ry. 
Clad in a Notre Da een coat and cream-colored" · nts, rnold Schwar­zenegger jo' . ndrell to welcome the special a letes, delegates, dig­nitaries, and audience members in at­tendance at Notre Dame stadium. 
Mandrell initiated the entertainment her.songs, "Reach," and "Sure tsA:toon." Whitney Houston's "Love the Day" and "Didn't We Al­Have It All" echoed around the 
earlier interview; :t,.ee Miller, ·· producer who will edit 

version of the&eremonies saia fie chose Barbara Mandtoell be­cause ''she if~,~Jncredible perfor!Der. She is a ver,'emotional and sensitive woman." " 
He said ton was approacheg quite so e ago, and John Denvel came · cause we wanted to balance the t omen." 
T~'male host, Denxer, entertained witft "I Want to Live" after Susan Saint James iritroduced"the flag ceremony. 
Annolliij!jng the entrance of the olym­pians were Frank Gifford, Oprah Winfrey, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
"Miami Vice" star Don Johnson began his speech by introducing him­self, an introduction which was hardly necessary for American fans, but was necessary for those of far away nations for whom the name "Don Johnson" meant nothing. 
Johnson's message to the world, however, meant everything as he said, "There are 70 countries, nine first ladies, and two heads of states. Wouldn't it be something to see the leaders of 70 nations in attendance." 
Actors William Hurt, Susan Saint James, and Marlee Matlin were also on hand for the parade. 
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps, former football great Frank HBlackie" Johnson, Father William Beauchamp, Athletic Director ~ne 
, Corrigan, and former Notre Dame president Father Theodore Hesburgh numbered among the list of Notre Dame celebrities at the ceremony. 
A pre-taped message by President Ronald Reagan, Jane· Fonda, O.J. Simpson, John Ritter, and Clint 
'-''Eastwood will be heard·when the ABC airs the progr on Monday. . "We wen t to major stars that have suppor Special Olympics" to recruit · them for the Opening Ceremonies, said Milller. ; 'Wl.n this day, however, the major stars were the special athletes who watched the performance from the stadium field. 1u ·Eunic~· Kennedy said to the olympians, "Tonight they cheer for ·· you. You are t~ stars and the world is watchin' you/' 



