Mostly cloudy 
IACCENT: C'est Ia Vie no more A 60 percent chance of thun­dershowers today, with a high near 80. Decreasing cloudi­ness, sunny and mild Wednes­
IVIEWPOINT: Random thoughts to ponder 
day. 


VOL. XXI NO. 11 
Honor code 
courses to 
be tried 
in early '88 
By KENDRA MORRILL Senior Staff Reporter 
On April 28, the Academic Council of the University unan­imously passed a resolution im. plementing a four-year experimental program de­signed to accustom students to a full honor code. The new honor system will go into effect in January of 1988. 
Beginning in the spring se­mester, certain freshman and upperclass courses will be con­ducted under a full honor code. 
The proposed honor code con­
• 
tains: 

•unproctored examinations 

•a 
pledge signed by eacb stu­dent indicating willingness to abide by the code and a pledge signed by each student when submitting work indicating that the student has neither given nor received unaut­horized aid 

•a 
requirement that any stu­dent aware of an honor code violation report the violation (a student not acting on a known violation will be considered to be violating the code) 

•student 
participation in the investigation and determina­tion of guilt or innocence of al­leged offenders 


•a system of sanctions. 
see HONOR, page 7 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jesse Jackson '88 frontrunner 

Leprechaun looking for new pep rally site 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR Brian Stark, the Fighting 
News Staff 
This year's first pep rally will be held at the traditional Stepan Center location, but future rallies may take place at a new site. 
The Office of Student Ac­tivities Monday confirmed that Stepan Center has been reserved for Sept. 18, the night before Notre Dame opens its home football season against the Michigan State Spartans. 
The location of the remammg pep rallies, however, has not been set, said Grant Weidner, co­chairman of the Pep Rally Committee. 
Weidner said the rallies may be moved from Stepan Center in the near future. 
Some students, however, are adamant about finding a new pep rally site. 
Irish leprechaun, said the problems and detractions in­volved with holding the rallies at Stepan Center have led Stark and other concerned and spirited stu­dents to actively seek a new venue. 
The major drawbacks of holding pep rallies in Stepan Center include poor acous­tics, stifling heat during crowded events, and a reputation for being associ­ated with a number of recent disappointing football seasons at Notre Dame, Stark said. 
Originally, Stark and others hoped to find a new place in time for this year's home opener but time and the administration among other things have proven to be formidable obstacles. 
The athletic department 
see RALLY, page 6 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-Jesse Jack­son, declaring he has a good chance of becoming America's first black president, said Mon­day he will announce his can­didacy for the Democratic nomination on Oct. 10 and pledged to campaign for "jobs, jobs, jobs, peace and justice." 
A Time magazine poll pub­lished Sunday said Jackson remained the leading choice for president among likely Democratic voters, with Mas­sachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis a distant second. 
"In a real sense, I'm trying to fulfill the best dimension of the Constitution," Jackson 
By MIMI TUOHY News Staff 
An increased budget, a self­defense program, and a com­mittee comprised of off­campus students were the main topics discussed at the Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting Monday night in Haggar College Center. 
Smith Hashagen, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, ex­
The Observei:'Brian Mast

Happy feet plained that the allowances for various clubs, classes and halls are being increased due to a 
Peter Smith and Sheila Dooley dance the night away at the Notre higher student activity fee this Dam&Salnt Mary's Ballroom Dance Club event Monday. year. 
"We are trying to even out 
said. "If I can in fact become president, indeed as (John) Kennedy became as a Catholic, indeed as (Franklin D.) Roosevelt came riding in a wheelchair... every woman can, every man, boy and wo­man and girl can," he said on ABC-TV's "Good Morning America." 
"So in a real sense, I'm giving America a chance to make a choice to fulfill the highest and best of an authentic and honest democracy," he said. 
Jackson, who has been cam­paigning for months around the nation as an undeclared can-
see JACKSON, page 6 

SMC Board raises club allowances 
the allotments given to classes and halls. Also, clubs will be included and an off-campus ac­count will be formed, due to the severe increase in off-campus students this year," Hashagen said. 
The student government is considering instituting a safety awareness program, Hashagen said. The plan would include signs warning students of the dangers of walking alone and a self-defense demonstration in each dormitory. 
"I think we need a program geared toward women which 
see BOARD, page 6 

Senate sets inauguration 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Last night, the Student Sen­ate announced the agenda for Father Edward Malloy's Presidential Inauguration on Wednesday, Sept. 23. 
Laurie Bink, student body vice president, encouraged stu­dents to attend the inaugural mass at 10 a.m., the ceremony at 3 p.m. and the reception at 4:30p.m. 
There were several other an-. nouncements made at the meeting. 
Brian Holst, student senator, gave details on the finalization of a student survey· conducted by the Student Senate. 
"The survey will consist of a two part comprehensive ques­tionnaire that will be dis­tributed to the student body," Holst said. 
According to Holst, the first part is composed of standard questions that are designed to indicate the evolution of the student body and changes that students' opinions undergo as they move through their four years at Notre Dame. 
"The second portion deals with issues of the day," said Holst. 
In other news, Pat Cooke, student body president, asked senate members to suggest ideas for senate priorities. The goal of these priorities is to develop senate subcommitees to examine and present solu­tions to existing problems, said Cooke. 
Ideas presented by members of the Senate included improv­ing student athletic facilities, revision and clarification of du Lac's vague description of stu­dent government, greater op­portunity for student input into administrative decisions, the creation of co-ed dorms and im­proved academic counseling for upperclassmen. 
In other business, Jennifer Gilhool, executive coordinator of student government rela­tions, discussed attempts being made to reinforce communica­tions between off-campus stu­dents and the South Bend City Council. 
According to Gilhool, Mike Murphy, off-campus liaison to South Bend government, is going to meet with Roger Par­ent, mayor of South Bend, with hopes of obtaining a monthly or bimonthly appearance before the city council to voice the concerns of off-campus stu­dents. 
"The goal of this plan is to improve Notre Dame's reputa­tion in South Bend" said Gil­hool, adding that recent prob­lems with crime have sparked this move for better communi­cation. 
Chris . Grahdpre, student body . treasurer, announced that the budget subcommitee will consider appeals and original applications for addi­tional funds from the student affairs fee budget on the first Monday of each month. 

--~---­
In Brief
r 
f Madonna concluded her European "Who's That Girl" 
r ~ 
tour by singing to 60,000 in a Florence, Italy stadium. The American Pop Queen, whose grandparents came from
r 
Italy, ended her 105-minute concert by raising a cham­pagne glass and saying "salute a tutti" (greetings to all) and "arrivederci gente" (goodbye, people). The Florence concert marked the conclusion of a tour of France, Britain and West Germany. -Associated Press 
The death penalty may be imposed on a 20-year-old Indianapolis man convicted in the murder .of tw? room­mates. Marion County Judge Roy F. Jones will decide Sept. 30 whether to impose the death penalty or sentence Dennis Wayne Brown to a prison term as long as 156.years.. Brown was convicted Saturday of seven charges, mcludmg two counts of murder two counts of theft and one count each of burglary, auto 'theft and carrying a handgun without a license. -Associated Press 
Marijuana plants valued at $100,000 were destroyed Sunday by Indiana police in Indianapolis. The 300 plants that police found growing in a cornfield was called the largest pot crop ever discovered in Marion County. A state police detective said the crop was about two months old and half had already been harvested. The police have no suspects. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will have its first huddle meeting this evening at 8:15p.m. in the Multi-Purpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns. All old and new members are invited to this orientation meeting. -The Observer 
Pax Christi will have its first gathering of the year tonight at 7:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, call Dan Keusal at 239-7943 or 234-8984. 
-The Observer 

Overseas Development Network meeting will take place at 7 p.m. tonight in the Center for Social Con­cerns. All those interested in learning about issues of de­velopment in the third world are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Arts and Letters Placement Night will be held at 7 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from Leo Burnett, Proctor and Gamble, and the First Boston Corporation will be featured speakers. All Arts and Letters seniors are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Senior Trip: last chance to pay final deposits is tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. Payments may be brought to the Senior Class office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. cThe Observer 
"Self-critical thinking," a lecturediscussion sponsored by the University Counseling Center, will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. This is the first of the Counseling Center's series of workshops on personal management and self­control. -The Observer 
Office hours have been established by the student senators. The senators will be available in the Student Government office-from 7:30 to 8:30p.m. Sunday through Thursday. -The Observer 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 

Design Editor ................ Robert Luxem Design Assistant .................... Jodi Topel Layout Staff..................... Cathy Keenan .................................... Annette Rowland Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman ........................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor. r ......... Regis Coccia Copy Editor .................... Matt Crowley Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen 
......................................... Theresa Kelly ...................................... Steve Megargee Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Tim Brennan Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Accent Layout ............... Melissa Warnke Typists ................................ Lynn Ewing ....................................... Jennifer Conlon ND Day Editor ...................... David Lee Photographer....................... Brian Mast 
Tille Oblener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam _and vacation periods. Tille Oblener is published by the students of the University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subsc;riptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tille Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tille Oblener is a member or Tille Aaoclated Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Commitment to service is rare attribute today 
"Today, colleges may be producing well­
trained, but only half-educated graduates," 
said a recent article concerning college cam­
puses of the 1980's. • 

Specialization and a narrow academic focus 
may prepare an individual for his eventual 
career, the article said, but it is questionable 
as to whether the student prepares himself for 
real life experiences and, indeed, if specializa­
tion does promote "good" education. 
Seventy-four percent of almost 300,000 college 
students recently surveyed marked "af­
fluence" as a life goal they considered essential 
or very important. 

Only 57 percent of the class of 1991 classified 
"helping others in difficulty" as being an im­
portant trait to hold. 

Another independent survey showed only one­quarter of the students surveyed had a feeling of involvement in the government (this included voting). 
"The idea of service and citizenship is a rela­tively low priority on campuses," the article continued. 
"Today's undergraduates are products of a society in which the call for individual gratifica­tion booms forth on every side," wrote an ed­ucator, "while the claims of community are weak." ­
One set of figures and a doomsday comment by an educator can be dismissed easily. Additional comments and polls can make one suspicious. 
All of these mentioned above have me con­cerned, as a college student and the leader of a leadership, service and social organization which has been losing members nationwide for the past six years. 
This is not a lecture. 

And, I refuse to accept the claim by many that today's campuses are morally bankrupt. The column is designed to lay out these statis­tics for you to decide whether there is a prob­lem, and, if there is, how serious it is. Are you one of those who wish to be affluent? 
If you are, good. I, too, hope to be well-off. There is no harm in this. 
My concern is not that people want to have financial success but rather about the lack of involvement in issues, leadership development, and the obligation to contribute back positively in some way to yourself and others around you. 
There is a compromise between a desire to do well and "service." 
One does not have to sacrifice all for the sake of helping others. Service can be working with the Little Brother you adopted or helping to organize the senior trip to Chi-Chi's. 
It simply means taking a little time to get involved in something outside the narrow per­sonal focus we all can have sometimes. 
"Service can and should be a part of under­graduate education, offering opportunities not found elsewhere," one college student said. "When you're worried about whether you are going to get an 'A' or a 'B' on an exam, it does 

Scott Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 


something to you to be working with a disabled child who's struggling just to learn to eat," the article quoted another college official. 
Even organizing the trip to Chi-Chi's, giving college students the chance to get together for an activity, is its own kind of service. 
Not only does it improve campus social life, but also it gives the individual organizing the event a small taste of what it takes to organize, something invaluable for the real world after :college. 
The narrow academic focus, looking solely at career training, is being re-evaluated by cor­porate recruiters. More and more liberal arts majors are being hired, for their general edu­cation and reasoning skills. 
In more technical fields, those individuals who show additional leadership skills and an interest in something outside their chosen career field are being given the edge over those who do not. 
There may be a problem on today's cam­puses, concerning individual involvement, but I do not really care to get involved in a philosophical debate. 
If there is a problem, we need to do something about it and get active. If there isn't a problem, then we can continue as we always have been. 
In either case, we both should have better things to do than argue, taking a little time to help ourselves and make a positive impact on something for which we believe. 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 

AIM HIGH 

ATTENTION SENIOR TRIPPERS 
Last Chance to pay Final Balance & Pick Roommates. Tonight at Senior Class Office 2nd Floor LaFortune from 6:00-8:00 pm. 
No more payments will be accepted after tonight! 


Funeral remembers slain heir 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Inventory/Maintenance Manager 
For further information contact Melissa Warnke at The Observer (239-5303) by Sunday, Sept. 13 at 5:00 p.m. 
Workshops for NEW Eucharistic 
~inisters · 
Sunday, September 13, 2:30 p.m. Sacred Heart Church and Tuesday, September 15, 10:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
Workshop for RETURNING Eucharis­tic Ministers 
Tuesday, September 15, 8:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
The diocese requires participation in one of these workshops in order to serve the assembly as 
a 
eucharistic minister. 
Associated Press 
KANKAKEE, Ill.-A private funeral was held for kidnap vic­tim Stephen Small on Monday, while police investigated whe­ther his abductors modeled their crime after a 1968 case in which a Florida woman was buried alive for more than 80 hours. 
Small, a businessman and member of a prominent media family, was buried alive last week in a plywood box by his abductors, who fashioned a ventilation system that ap­parently failed to provide suf­ficient air for the 40-year-old man. 
His body was discovered un­der several feet of sand Friday in a remote wooded area about 13 miles south of Kankakee. 

Two men and a woman were in custody, and police said each would be charged with kidnap­ping and murder Tuesday when courts reopened after the Labor Day weekend. 
Several dozen people atten­ded a private ceremony for Small, great-grandson of former Illinois governor Len Small, at a chapel at Mound Groves Gardens of Memory. 
Except for Small's death, his abduction bore striking resemblances to the kidnap­ping of Barbara Jane Mackie, who survived after being 

MARKETING CLUB 
anyone interested in joining should attend the first meeting: 
WEDNESDAY, 9 SEPTEMBER 
Annapolis Room LaFortune 
6:30PM all classes and mqjors welcome Only $5. 00 for membership 
buried for more than 80 hours in 1968. 
Like Small, the 20-year-old debutante was buried in a coffin-like box and provided with water, battery-powered lamps and a ventilation sys­tem. 
In Small's case, a length of narrow-diameter plastic tubing ran from the box to the surface. Kankakee County Coroner James Orrison said after a preliminary autopsy that he believes Small may have suffocated because the tube delivered insufficient air and may have been blocked by sand. 
In the Florida case, the ven­

tilation system of two large­diameter pipes proved ade­
quate, and FBI agents dug Mackie out alive from under 18 inches of earth after her family paid a $500,000 ransom. 
"I just wonder if these idiots got a lot of ideas there," said Deputy Police Chief Robert Pepin, who acknowledged there were "a lot of parallels" between the two cases. 
Police Chief Timothy 0. Nugent said the possibility of such a conection was "being looked into." 
In Mackie's case, all but $20,000 of the ransom was recovered and a man and wo­man pleaded guilty and are ser­ving life terms. 
Small's kidnappers made a futile $1 million ransom demand, recording their in­structions for its delivery on tape and then holding the recor­der up to a telephone after they called Small's wife, Pepin said. 

--------~---­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 8, 1987 
-







"For the few who qualify for 
J.P. Morgans Audit-Plus program~ the rewards are many.~~ 
We're very selective about the people we choose for our Audit-Plus program, and we attract very 
selective candidates. We look for business students 
with a strong academic record, superior communi­cation skills, and the capacity to understand the balance between profitability and risk. What we offer you is a chance to develop your management skills quickly by working in the auditing or finan­cial areas of a leading global firm. We also give you quality training, practical experience on diverse projects, and the opportunity to 

mOVe ahead fast based On your 
Information Presentation 
performance. Hyou're interested in the challenge at J.P. Morgan, 

meet with us at the time and 
place indicated. 

Monday, September 14 7:00-9:00 PM University Club Upper lounge 

"


JPMorgan 
'Ferris Bueller' star charged in Ireland auto death 
Associated Press in Ireland on Aug. 5 with his room in the Royal Victoria Police could not immediately Magistrates' Court in girlfriend, Jennifer Grey, when Hospital and was charged with say why the charge concerned February. his car collided with a vehicle causing the death of Anne Gal­only the death of Mrs. Gallag­
BELFAST, Northern Ireland carrying two women about 80 lagher, 28. her. The actor, from New York,-Actor Matthew Broderick was miles southwest of Belfast near Broderick has been in the Ms. Grey, 23, was treated at has starred in such hit films as
charged last night with causing Enniskillen in County Fer­hospital recovering from a bro­a hospital for shock and "WarGames" and "Ferris
death by reckless driving stem­managh. ken leg and minor injuries suf­released. Bueller's Day Off." He won aming from an automobile acci­Walking on crutches, the ac­fered in the crash, which also The actor was remanded on Tony award for his role in Neil dent that killed two people. tor appeared in a temporary killed Mrs. Gallagher's mot­bail of $4,150 and ordered to ap­Simon's stage play "Brighton· 
Broderick, 25, was traveling court set up in a small, private her, Margaret Doherty, 63. pear in Enniskillen Beach Memoirs." 
Weather gets better, but forest fires still burning 
Associated Press timate from just one fire, the Morning America.'' small fire was burning in Wash­An estimated 496,800 acres 
• 120,000-acre Paper Complex "It's still hot, dusty and dirty ington . had been charred by more than 
Firefighters concentrated on blaze in the Stanislaus National out there, but the winds aren't About 22,000 firefighters 1,000 fires in California as of 200 major forest fires still bur­Forest, was $119 million. as erratic," Clark said. have battled the blazes and 600 Monday, and nearly 105,000 • ning in the West and allowed "We had enough of a break Crews in Idaho brought a Army soldiers were added to acres had gone up in smoke ih more evacuees to return home in the weather that we were 10,500-acre blaze in the Saw­fire crews in Oregon on Mon­Oregon. Monday after containing able to contain some of the tooth National Forest under day to take over some mop-up hundreds of the blazes that had smaller fires and medium size control Monday, allowing most chores. Including about 30,000 acres charred 1,000 square miles. fires. That enables us to shift of a 600-man force to be reas­Three firefighters had been that burned in Idaho, plus 
At least 3,000 people in Cali­some resources to those that signed to the huge fires still out killed in vehicle accidents in smaller fires in Washington, fornia were still being kept are still uncontrolled," assis­of control in California and California since lightning Arizona, Montana, South from their homes because of tant regional forester Ken Oregon. One Idaho fire was al­began setting the woods on fire Dakota and Wyoming, the total fire danger. Clark from Sacramento, Calif., lowed to continue burning in ex­on Aug. 28, and the Forest Ser­estimated burned area was 
In California, the damage es-said Monday on ABC's "Good tremely rough terrain, and a vice said 34 had been injured. about 636,000 acres. 
~··, 


FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
Steve Waller 
(Controller) 
with 

Dan Poorman Beth Schneider 
(Notre Dame '86) (Notre Dame '87) 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 7:00PM Upper Lounge, University Club Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come meet and talk with recent alumni about career opportunities at General Mills. 
~ 


.-------------~-,. ----------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 8, 1987

page 6 The Observer 

The Observei1Srian Mast
Take a bow 
Senior Marc Miller of the Notre Dam&Salnt Mary's Salllng Club shows new members the ropes. 
Board 

tennis courts. ....••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Other possible locations soon llltll••••••------------------------••••••••••••••
to be investigated include the Krause Stadium and the south p••••--••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••l
quad in front of the Rockne Memorial. 
The Joyce ACC has already proven itself impractical be­cause of its "unacceptable acoustics'' evidenced last year, Stark said. 
Despite the uncertainty of the location of future rallies, this year's opener promises to be among the most memorable in recent years according to Stark. 
One in a series of events for the weekend, centered around rallying and uniting the student body for Notre Dame's 100th football season, the first pep rally will include: a well organ­ized program, a number of en­thusiastic speeches, band per­formances, a surprise emcee, and at least one special guest. 
"This will be one of the best pep rallies in history," the Leprechaun Stark said. 
WANTED 
USC vs. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
E"ARLY AM OR EVEN/NOS 


ONCE IN A LIFETIME! 
If you are self-motivated with high standards and have pride in yourself and the work you do, apply to be part of the select group chosen to cater the University's most prestigious event. 
1987 PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION 
Tuesday, September 22, 1987 .. Wednesday, September 23, 1987 
Applications may be picked up at the North or South Dining Hall Manager's Office 
Join us in the celebration 
University Food Services 

UJI'IV&a81TY POOH8aYJC& 
MQTII MMI ­
University of Notre Dame 
GIANT POSTER SALE!!! 
IMPORTED ROCK & POP, ALSO FILM, FINE-ART, & PERSONALITY POSTERS
... 

MON-FRI, 7th-11th Sept. 
9:00 am-6:00 pm 
WEST POINT CONFERENCE ROOM LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER FROM ONLY $3.00 
Jackson 
continued from page 1 
didate, said he will make his candidacy official in Raleigh, N.C., at the national convention of his Rainbow Coalition. 
Relying heavily on his sup­port from organized labor, Jackson formally disclosed his plans during a Labor Day swing through Pittsburgh, Cleveland and New York City. 
He made his first announce­
ment  on  ABC-TV  from  Pit­ 
tsburgh,  attended  a  Roman  
Catholic  mass  at  a  racially  

mixed inner city church, and marched through a supportive crowd of more than 5,000 people watching the city's 100th Labor Day parade. 
From the pulpit at the Roman Catholic Church, the Baptist minister led pre­parade worshippers, including many laid-off steel workers, through a 10-point "Workers' Bill of Rights." 
Jackson said workers have rights to a job, to union repre­sentation, a living wage, safe work place and pension secur­ity. He played to the local au­dience, saying American steel 

workers should not lose their jobs to foreign "slave labor." "Let us fight together and not one another," he said. 
"We agree that what we need is not just a new occupant for the White House. We need a new direction for our nation," said Jackson. "We need a gov­ernment that cares, a president committed to the well-being of the American family who will protect them from the exporta­tion of jobs and the importation of drugs." 
Jackson, who in 1984 won pri­maries in Louisiana and the District of Columbia, becomes the most liberal in the Democrats' ·sizable field of presidential contenders for 1988. 
He said his new campaign will work on broadening the party's base of support, widen­ing its "mainstream into a river," in part by continuing his old theme of registering new vot~rs. 
"The leadership of the Dem­ocratic party is going to be much fairer to me in part be­cause I'm part of the leader­ship of the Democratic varty," Jackson said. 
The Observer page 7 
NO Law School prof helps in mob busting 

By KRISTIN SWENERTON 
News Staff 
In an attempt to combat or­
ganized crime, the federal gov­
ernment has initiated a new at­
tack using a 1970 statute 
written in part by a Notre 
Dame Law School professor. 
The RICO, or Federal Rack­eteer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, was written and researched by a Senate subcommittee of which Profes­sor G. Robert Blakey was a member. 
The law has just been "dis­covered" as a possible method of crippling the powers of crime families. Civil lawsuits using the RICO act, like the one filed last month against New York's Bonanno family, seek to prevent future crimes. 
If successful, these civil suits could do more damage to the Mafia than any previous legis­lation. A courtroom victory for the Government in this case would lead to others, and as Blakey stated, "Society can only benefit." 
Last week Blakey wrote an article in the New York Times it. in which he praised the govern­ment's "imaginative step, ••· 
which marks a historic depar­ture in law enforcement." 
Professor Blakey has been involved in researching organ­ized crime since 1960, when he served under then-Attorney General Robert Kennedy in the Justice Department. 
Blakey began teaching at Notre Dame in the mid-1960's and then returned to Washing­ton to help research and draft crime legislation. He served as chief counselor for the Senate subcomittee on criminal laws and procedures, which produced the RICO act after a year of work. 
Blakey received his degree 
from Notre Dame, and has taught at the Law School since 1980. He also works with
federal law enforcement agencies in teaching. specifics of the RICO act. 
Allstate Update: Insurance Value Review 


._----------~-----------------------------· 
"The best way to make sure you're geHing the most for your insurance dollar is to compare policies~' 
John Davenport 
2036 SA 23 South Be~d. IN 
277·5060 NEAR CAMPUS 
Don't assume all policies are priced about the same 
from company to company It could be costing you 
money! And since our office is nearby, it's easy to come 
in and compare Allstate. 
So why not bnng in your policies or give me a call. I'll do a complete check. and see if we can save you some money You're m good hands with Allstate.· 
Allstate~ 
.\IJ,tult• I nsurnnt't' ( 'ompan.v 
The Observei:Srian Masl
With or without it 

Students hunting for the perfect poster flocked Point Room. to LaFortune for the big poster sale In the West 
Honor 
continued from page 1 

Violations of the honor code will be reported to the dean of the college in which the viola­tion has occurred. The dean will then refer the reports to Honesty Committees which will exist to determine whether the alleged violations have oc­curred. Both students and fac­ulty will be on these commit­tees. 
For a first infraction, the penalty will be an "F" in the course under which the code was violated. For a second in­fraction, the penalty will be dis­missal from the University. 
Faculty members teaching upperclass courses may volun­teer to use the honor code, with approval of the dean of the col­lege in which the class is taught. 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
OPEN HOUSE 

-for all those who signed up at Activities Night and anyone else who is interested 
September 8 Reception: B:00-9:00pm Individual Committee Meetings: 9:00-1O:OOpm 
Refreshments will be served!!! 
In the SUB office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 

In additon, on the first day of was made during orientation, class a professor of such a Hofman said. course may indicate that he is Hofman said he hopes to have thinking about teaching the two types of orientation pro­class as an honor code course. grams for freshman and fac­
If one person objects to this ulty on the honor code before proposal, the honor code can­the end of the semester. not be used in the class. Every­One program will focus on one in the class must agree to "the concept of honor as the be governed by the code. fundamental principle underly­
Any classes regulated by the ing the honor code," said Hof­honor code will be indicated in man.
..

the pre-registration course bul­letin. . The second program will con­
Dr. Emil Hofman, dean of the centrate on the policies and Freshman Year of Studies, procedures within the honor said he is now in the process of code. deciding which freshman "These programs will be courses will be designated as done in such a way that faculty honor code courses. He said he and freshman will have an op­is "seeking agreement with portunity for a clearer under­professors" as to which classes standing of the honor code,'' will be taught under the new Hofman said. honor system. Father Oliver Williams, 
Hofman said he is choosing C.S.C., associate provost, will the classes so that all freshman oversee the honor code pro­will experience the honor code gram as chairman of the Uni­in different types of courses, versity Academic Honor Code 
Committee. 
such writing
as courses, 

Other members of the com­
courses that test using essay 
mittee are Stephan Batill, Col­
questions, and courses that in­lege of Engineering; Gerald volve calculation tests. 
Jones, College of Science;All freshmen came to the Kevin Misiewicz, College of University this year with the Business; Ronald Weber, Col­
knowledge that they would be lege of Arts and Letters; Emil 
required to take some courses Hofman, dean of Freshman 
under the honor system, said Year of Studies; Daniel Ger­Hofman. 
lach, student member. 
They were informed of this policy in the Academic Guide The committee met for the and in a newsletter that was first time on August 25, said sent out this summer, and Williams, and will continue to th!ough an announcement that meet every two to three weeks. 
.~ UOfM ~ 
f The Fig::.·ng lri~~ · -September 11, 12, 13 W 
* 
45 minutes to the stadium 

* 
HoHdome Recreational Area 

* 
Lounge with live entertainment 


·s"J9 00per night
~ • plustax 
For reservations call 
{313) 353-7700. 
i!£

-\{~~~
OF SOUTHFIELD 
26555 Telegraph Road, southfield, Michigan 48034 

Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, September 8, 1987 
.Random ideas give much to consider 
Mter a long hiatus (which was sort of beyond my control) I have returned 
to  the  Viewpoint  page  to  express  
whatever  opinion  comes  across  my  
mind.  

Eric Bergamo 
r 
r 20 seconds into the future 
~ 
r 
r r Unfortunately, I don't have a specific 
r 
opinion that I could write a substantial r column about. I have much to write
r 
about, maybe too much. 
So bear with what may be an enjoy­r able, though muddled, column. r Our good friend G.I. Ollie North r spilled his guts about the whole Contra­
r 
gate mess and his circumventing of the 
r Constitution and became a national hero in the process. I guess if Ghengis Khan had testified in front of a Con­gressional committee the reasons for his rampaging across Europe ("We live in a dangerous continent and we need dangerous barbarians to take risks," he would have said), he would have been a hero. 
I also have this image of the founding fathers at the Constitutional convention back in 1787 and Thomas Jefferson saying, "We'd better put in something about separation of powers because I have this feeling some looney Marine 
r
, lieutenant colonel is going do something r stupid in the future." I just can't see anyone hero­r worshipping Mr. Step-on-the­
r 
r Constitution. Ollie North posters, r videos, action figures and other 
r 
memorabilia are just fine for the ultra­conservative. I'll pass and go to ~ Australia. Speaking of Australia, Senior Bar has 
r 
r made a boffo move and is now serving r Foster's Lager (good day, mate!). r Senior Bar can make me happier by r serving Coors, so get to work on it. 
r 
My next comment is directed at the r r Office of Student Activities. If you don't realize it, the number of working was­r hers and dryers in the laundry room of
r 
r LaFortune is dangerously low. I've r heard of waiting in line for tickets and 
r 
meals, but for doing my laundry is 
r 
where I draw the line. Take care of this problem, Mr. Cassidy. 
T.he dining halls are now giving us new plates whenever we go for seconds. Now if you ask me, I really don't care if I get a new plate every time I get 
Doonesbury 
more Hungarian Noodle Bake. It just doesn't matter to me. And anyway, doesn't that just make more dishes to wash? I don't think any of the dining hall workers want that. 
I think the title of Michael Jackson's 
newest album describes it perfectly. 
And of course the local radio stations 
have already played it over and over 
and over... 
Can you believe Dallas Green didn't want to pay Andre Dawson $500,000 to play for the Cubs this season? Gee Dal­las, you got a bargain. Let's see; 43 
home runs at $500,000 for the season equals (so far) $11,627.90 per home run. Dallas, just give him the moon when he asks for a new contract. 
I hope, I pray that the Cardinals do not win the Eastern division. I can't believe that I, a die-hard Cubs fan, would actually root for the Mets. 
Will somebody, anybody, spend mas­sive amounts of quarters and get to the end of the "Rolling Thunder" video game in LaFortune and rescue the girl that's held prisoner by the ultra-nasty and evil organization? 
I think my mom is selling my child­hood exploits to the guy who writes "Calvin and Hobbes." It just seems too familiar for my liking. If Mom is doing this, I'm going to ask for a chunk of the royalties. 
Dolly Parton is going to have a one­hour variety show on ABC this fall? And this from the network that brought us "Max Headroom" (one of my favorite shows)? Just when you think ABC is showing some intelligence, they go ahead and do something like this. 
I, for one, will be watching "Star Trek: The Next Generation" when it premieres in October. So what if Kirk and Spock and the rest of the old crew won't be on. What do those "Trekkies" think,· that the old cast is going to live forever? Come on, be real. 
I wonder if Sports Illustrated will pick the Cleveland Indians to win it all next year? They'll probably do it one better and pick the Seattle Mariners. 
The people in Arcadia, Florida, who in ignorant fashion ran a family who had three young boys with AIDS out of their town, should get what's coming to them. I'd have them spend one-hour as talking dummies for the football team. 
Refuting an earlier predicition on this page, Tim Brown will win the Reisman Trophy convincingly, and Notre Dame will be playing in a major bowl game. 
IAJHYrtutU, ffALI..5TAR1EIJIAJITHH/5 
7H£GOVB?NOR, 17>11//J/C!l.OUS!I'M 
UN/J£15TAN/J-A MORMON! 7DI.£R.­
/?£5C.ISSION OF 7H& STA'TESiriAK!lN 
ti/TH/3R KINGHOtlf¥lY. MR. SINCE, 
A8/..~ 8C6S 70 ANa15 A BASIC 
/JIFFtR. ... '!EfN&T OfMYFA!TH!
CRiTICS SAY, MliCIIAM'5/?faRPHAS 
/lliW FfJCKMA1?KE./)8YINSCNSITI'IITY. 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all .members of the community and the free expression of varying op1mons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Eating at the North Dining Hall is no longer a job, it's an adventure. 
If you open a can of 7-Up inside a building, will it set off the sprinkler sys­tem? 
.The New York Giants will repeat as Super Bowl champions. I'm not going to guess who they're going to beat. 
It's neat that we're going to have a day off for Monk's inauguration. Maybe the University will declare some snow days later on if we're lucky. 
Well, you were warned that this column would be a muddled ramble. 
Eric Bergamo is a senior government major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Concerned service marks our students 
Dear Editor: 
Paul Newett's September 3 View­point column certainly comes as a relief. Why I had been so foolish to believe that some students actually came here for something called an edu­cation, rather than a four-year reprieve before the inevitable pursuit of wealth and power that he describes. . 
I would like to thank Mr. Newett for informing naive people such as myself that we attend "a finishing school for automatons," rather than a place where one can actually grow as a stu-

Garry Trudeau 

dent and human being. 
And, if any reader still resists the idea that "individual identity Cis) ab­sent from (our) campus" -the title of Newett's masterpiece-then let him for­get the fact that hundreds of Notre Dame students are involved in commu­nity service activities, that our alumni include priests, nuns, teachers, public servants, Peace Corps volunteers, as well as businessmen, and remember that heterogenity at the University of Our Lady is a farce. Others who say different are simply hypocrites, fools like Dr. Thomas Dooley, a Notre Dame graduate who lived for others, and not Newett's pursuit of wealth. 
Daniel Gerlach Flanner Hall 

Quote of the Day 
"A certain amount of opposi­tion is a great help to a man. Kites rise against, not with the wind." 
John Neal 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ . Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1968 

Accent
Tuesday, September 8, 1987 page 9 
Women of Howard 
continue traditions 


LIZ PANZICA 
accent writer 
D
espite the message fre­
quently seen on sweatshirts 
around campus, the Howard 
Hall tradition established In 
1924 did not end In the spring 
of 1987. Howard Hall continues 
to make Its mark on the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame, but In a 
slightly different way than In 
the past. 
When Howard was converted 
Into a womens' dorm this year 
there were complaints from the 
former residents. Yet. In spite 
of the controversy, residents 
are working toward continuing 
proud traditions and beginning 
new ones. 
Sister M. J. Griffin left her 
position as rector of Farley Hall 
to come to Howard to help 
begin the new womens' 
residence. She decided to leave 
Farley because she said she 
was completely committed to 
residential life at Notre Dame. 
She said, "It Is part of my voca­
tion as a Franciscan to be 
flexible and respond to needs. 
I enjoy the challenge of begin­
ning a new endeavor." 
Howard Hall differs from all 
Hey rnon: 
LISA YOUNG 
accent copy editor 
}\ lthough summer is winding L".down In South Bend, Wed­nesday evening will be hot as the Jamaican-born reggae band 
S.W.A.M.M.P. kicks off their 1987 Midwest tour at Mitchell's Indiana Club. S.W.A.M.M.P. Is an acronym that stands for sound, wisdom and many mu­sical powers. 
The S.W.A.M.M.P. sound Is a combination of African and Jamaican rhythms. David Alert. WSND host of "88 Reggae Street", describes them as a "hard working, diverse band." He says their style Incorporates "funk and jazz as well as the Jamaican blend of rhythm and blues, rock and gospel that makes up reggae music." 
S.W.A.M.M.P. 
was one of the most followed and respected bands In Jamaica. They played the Caribbean circuit for many years, performing with such well-known reggae artists as Third World and Bob Marley and The Wallers. The band was discovered In 1982 and moved to Pittsburgh. 

S.W.A.M.M.P. 
began attract­Ing a large college following. They wrote "College Town, U.S.A." for Athens, home to Ohio University. Last year the band played at Indiana Univer­sity in Bloomington. Says Alert. 


Calvin and Hobbes 
the other residence halls on 
campus In the fact that every 
upperclassman wants to live 
there. Unlike other dorms, the 
women were not processed 
Into the dorm as freshmen who 
had little Idea of campus tradi­
tions. The upperclassmen 
decided to come to Howard to 
help begin Its new life as a 
womens' dorm. 
Senior Gall Page said, "I 
think Howard Is going to be 
one of the best dorms on 
campus because It's small; It's 
In a great location and every­
one who's here wants to be 
here." 
Unlike some other womens 
residences, Howard already 
had a tradition behind It before 
the women arrived. A senior 
R.A. said, "The building Itself has a lot of tradition, but yet it is a new tradition being a womens dorm. " 
Freshman Kathy Mudra said, "Living In Howard gives us a chance to make new impres­sions on campus, and not have to live with any of the bad Images that other dorms have." 
Most people on campus are willing to accept the change at Howard. Page said, "I am Im­pressed with how positive people have been, considering the controversy." 
Former Howard residents are Interested in the changes that took place to convert the hall. The bathrooms, lounges and study areas were all remodeled before the new residents moved ln. 
Mary Dandurand, a freshman at Howard, was surprised how friendly the ex-Howard resi­dents were when they came to look at their old room which they claimed she was now living ln. Yet. she was a little dismayed that at least five gentlemen claimed her double room as their old home. 
Howard residents will prove to be a close group. Freshman Laura Rossi said, "It's good being In Howard as a freshman because everyone Is new to each other." 
Griffin said, "I would like to see Howard become a strong womens' hall which makes a positive impact on the whole university community." 
Howard Hall 1987-?, the new tradition begins. 
reggae at Mitchell's 
Courtesy of rast Lane Productions 
Reggae band S.W.A.M.M.P. plays Wednesday at Mitchell's. 
"The band has been success­oral poetry. fully crossing-over for years." Catch the tropical sound of "Crossing-over" refers to a Zap Clarke on vocals and recognizable commercial sound keyboards, Froggie Francis on that has helped the band gain 
percussions, Cookie Willacy popularity. playing lead rhythm guitars The band members are Ras­and doing background vocals, 
tafarians, but not wishing to Devon Green on bass and J.J. cause any religious misun­Smith on drums this Wednes­derstanding, their music is day at 8 p.m. Mitchell's Indiana straight-forward, traditional Club Is located at 320 West reggae. Reggae music delivers Jefferson Boulevard in South a spiritual message originating Bend. Tickets are $5 at the from the African tradition of door and lD is required. 
Bill Watterson 

C'est Ia Vie 
"So, how was France?" 
Like the how-was-your­summer Interrogation which bombards every student as he or she returns to campus after three months away, this question about my en­tire sophomore year abroad Is just as difficult to answer In the time It takes to meet and pass people in the hal­lway. 
Mary Berger 
Back in the High Life 
Summing up In one or 
two phrases nine months of 
traveling, meeting people 
from all over the world, 
living in a different culture 
with a host family and mis­
sing Notre Dame is no easy 
feat. This summer someone 
asked me to find one word 
to describe my year In 
France. Needless to say, I 
was unable to find just one 
word that could tackle the 
total description, but there 
are a few key words which 
can capture most of my ex­
perience. 
"Great!" is usually the firs~ 
word past my huge smile 
when someone asks me 
about my time in Europe. I am quick to add, however, that the experience was not all "wine and roses." In fact it was tougher than I ever imagined it would be. 
First I had to deal with my frustration at not being able to knock down the language barrier like I had planned. Simple questions and tasks like "Please pass the salt" and "I need ten aerograms" became situations I had to 
no more 
thoughts or questions about friends' endeavors and campus happenings: Did they tailgate this weekend? Who Is asking whom to the SYR? Wouldn't It be nice to 
just go hang in the Pit for a study break? 
Never once did I wish I had not gone to Angers or want to really be back on campus and see things for 
myself; I just did not want to 
be forgotten and could not 
help but be curious about 
what was happening back 
here In good old South 
Bend. 

So what was so GREAT 
about my year? Quite frank­
ly, the fun I had and the 
growth I experienced. Not 
only did I have the Indepen­
dence to do whatever I 
wanted but I had the oppor­
tunities to do what I wanted. 
Traveling was the realm in 
which I enjoyed myself and 
learned the most. It was 
educational to visit places, 
to learn foreign customs and 
traditions firsthand, to at­
tempt getting along in a dif­
ferent language and to really see all those other people who make up this world around us. It was fun to walk the ramparts Lady Jane once did. I felt lightheaded at the thought of riding a carousel at the foot of the Eiffel Tower. And spending a weekend on the beaches of Spain was definitely hot. 
Back on campus flipping through photos and telling 
-
plan and consciously com­plete word by word. In the beginning I had to rely a lot upon my friends' transla­tions, and I just plain felt ignorant at times. 
The most difficult aspect of studying abroad for me was being away from Notre Dame and all of the people who are special in my life. Now that I was off in the land of wine, cheese and supposed romance, all of the things which had be­come such a huge part of my life were no longer within my grasp. 
I missed campus life and the spirit which abounds at Notre Dame. Always in the back of my mind were tales, I realize how fantastic my year abroad was. Sure it was tough at times, but I am a firm believer in learning something from every situa­tion, good and bad. What I learned this past year was how to spend a lot of time alone, how to handle myself in almost any situation, how to cross culture barriers and how to better deal with and overcome frustration, loneli­ness and fear. 
Spending an extended per­iod of time in another country was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. I had a lot of fun, I saw a lot of the world, I made a ­lot of friends and I learned a lot about myself. It was an education all Its own. 
~--------------~ 
111E AIR SI\NI<S, TOO. I GUE<::s 1\.\t.RES SIILL ruL\JI\01'-1. 
I 
tJ)
.e 



page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
New writers interested in spor~s writing and who attended last week's open house are asked to attend a brief meeting tomorrow night at 7:30 at The Observer office. Contact Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303 for further information -The Obs,rver 
The track team will hold a meeting for all prospective track and field athletes, both indoor and outdoor, freshmen through seniors, tomorrow at 4:30p.m. in the ACC's football auditorium. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club's first weekly meeting will be held tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse. For more information contact Mark Ryan at 3024. 
-The Observer 

The 5-10 and under Basketball Classic will hold sign-ups today in the Student Union Board of­fice on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from 1-4 p.m. Teams will have 7-man rosters and a $5 entry fee. Space is limited. Any questions call Jim Manning at 1459 or Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
The Softball Club will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 344 Farley, for last year's mem­bers to elect new officers. There will also be a meeting Thursday, September 10, at 6 p.m. in Far­ley's Middleroom for anyone interested in playing this spring. If you are unable to attend or have any questions, call Barb at 4290. -The Observer 
The SMC Varsity Basketball team will hold an informational meeting We-dnesday for anyone interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be held at 4:30 at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Student managers are needed for varsity athletics. Any freshmen interested should report to an organizational meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. at the ACC Auditorium. Enter through Gate 2. -The Observer 
Gene Michael has announced that he will not return as manager of the Chicago Cubs next season, according to reports. -The Observer 
Tile 011eerwr Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advatlsing from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.oe...n.. Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds be prapald, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949; H: 2n-8131. MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 2n·1051 DAY; 2n-2724 EVE. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 MY CHICK is in Pinsburgh and needs a ride too her alma mater (NO) for the NO • Mich ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out for the game who could give her a ride from the P~­tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239·5303 any time of the day or night.  WANTED HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 2n-5666. APPLY IN PERSONI Part-time help wanted. Apply in person at Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. Open: 10:00-5:30 pm , 7 days a week. NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK­ETS. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MIKE X4340 .................................. House-cleaner: 1 Saturday per month. Own transportation. £289-9975. after 6:00pm. Wanted : small couch or love seal. Call Drew 283-3666.  HELP!I Need 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs . Have 2 USC tix to trade. Call Kate 277­2944. SAVE MEII1 BROTHER PLUS NO MICH STATE TIX EQUALS 1 DEAD SIS­DIANE 2627 BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL 4579 MY MOTHER NEEDS A QUICK COUPLE OF TICKETS FOR MICH. STATE. PLEASE HELP. CALL MARC AT 288-7105. ....................................... WANTED-I NEED 1 OR 2 TIX FOR MICH.ST­STU. OR GA.WILL PAY CASH.CALL 1793.PLEASE!II Need 6 MICH ST. TIX Call Steve at 271­0573 PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  WANTED: 4 TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL EVENINGS AFTER 5:00. COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED. ELKHART 264­1761. NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR USC GAME -OCT 241 FAMILY COMING FORB-DAY CALL MIKE X3138 WE ALL WANT TICKETS BUT I NEED THEM FOR MICHIGAN, MICHIGAN STATE AND BOSTON COL­LEGE YOUR REWARD WILL BE SOME SERIOUS CASH CALL STEVE AT 232­9816 THE POPE AND MOTHER THERESA ARE COMING FOR USC. NAME YOUR PRICE. CALL 2338. NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872  She says we'll study together, you know, so I get all excited ... But what happens? She goes home. So I'm left alone with the Venus of Willendorf. Mimi T., (that's T.), I love you, too. -MP Congratulations, Sandy C. As you entered Stephan Chem. for your 10:10 Calc. Class with the prof with longer blonde hair than your.-1 turned towards Galvin-and realized I forgot to ask your name-Call me Ray 2243. PARENTS FIRST TRIP TO NDI  BACCHUS BACCHUS BACCHUS General information meeting Wednesday 8pm basement of Walsh EVERYONE WELCOME! Save cash and purchase your textbooks; three to five day service for textbook or­ders. Also, you can sell your textbooks for cash at Pandora's Bookstore. We're located on 808 Howard St., open 10:00­5:30 pm, 7 days a week. Michigan State tickets I need to get ahold of six student or GA tickets. Call Mike at 271-0765. DESPERATE!!! need MSU TICKET! STUDENT or GAl call christy x3690  
LOST/FOUND LOST KEYS: AT 107 HURLEY ON !¥.!. RED BUDWEISER RING AND BRASS SCRIPT "L" WITH SIX KEYS. PLEASE HELP. HURRY. REWARD. TOM: 1850  SHARP, ARTICULATE graduate student to assist Niles manu­facturing company as bartender and chauffeur for NO home football games. Must be personable and able to interact with top executives. Please call683-81 00 EXT 4737 for interview. AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­ I have to convert a Wisconsin fan I! To do this I need 1 stud. or GA USC ticket. Call Kristen 1367. WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MATT AT 1404  I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 RELATIVES COMMING LONG DIS­TANCE! WANT TO SEE "NO" WIPE  DONT LET ME DISAPPOINT THEM! WILL PAY IN A BIG WAY! CALL BRIAN 2743 OR KRIS 271-0754 WHIP ME! BEAT ME! LASH ME! SELL ME MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS! STUD OR GA. CHRIS $2284 OR $2264  HELP I · I desperately need riders to either Louis­ville or Bowling Green, Kentucky the weekend of September 11. If interested, please call Debbie at x2286. MIGHIGAN ST. TIXII IF YOU HAVE THEM, I NEED THEM. PLEASE !I! CALL MONICA AT 4238.  
LOST: If anyone finds a pink General Electric geno blaster left at the LeMans bus stop, please contact Katherine at 284-4134. LOST: CLEAR PLASTIC LITE BEER KEY CHAIN WITH 3 KEYS. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL JIM AT 1029. REWARD Ill HELPIII IF YOU FOUND A BLUE JEAN JACKET CALL TIM AT 1204. BIG REWARDIII $$$$$ FOUND: Calculator in O'Shag Computer Room last Thursday night. To claim, call Mark x2385. LOST LOST LOST PAIR OF GLASSES WITH THIN BLACK FRAMES IN A SNAKESKIN CASE. LOST THURSDAY IN OR NEAR FITZPATRICK HALL. PLEASE CALL £4510 IF FOUND. LOST 3 keys on s wooden Notre Dame key ring. Rm. 241: cell1136 Hey -My glasses with thin black frames are lost. You can help me keep up my grade point In EE If you get them back to me soon I They are still in a snakeskin case and both have been missing since Thursday. Please help me out. £4510. Thanks a bunch. To the John ...who was given a camera case at the O'Hare Airport United Limo station to deliver on the 12:15pm bus on Monday Sept. 7. I need it. ~ has all my keys In it. Please turn rt into security, losMound or Morrissey rector or call Jack at X3419 immediately. FOR RENT NICE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD 288-0951;255-3684 FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889 EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 ............................................ For Rent 1&2 bedroom apartments close to campus Call 291-6509 after 4:00 for details  0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. FOR SALE IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1-312-742-1142, EXT. 7316. 1978 VW SCIROCCO JERRY 239-5802 ................................................................ TICKETS PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0765. I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH, MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 I NEED TWO (2) GA TIX TO THE NAVY GAME CALL CHUCK AT 283-2443 NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX--AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574. DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX FOR NEED 1 MICH STATE GA call MB 233­5732 Need 2 MSU Student Tickets. Also Need GA's And Student Tickets For USC. Will Pay $$$$. Call Bill £2003. I'm not Catholic (gasp), and my parents are divorced (gasp). Can you help me out with one NavyGA?? Call Tim at 1223. Thanks. NEED 2 TIX TO ANY NO HOME GAMES. CALL 272-3491. GA'S NEED TICKETSII TWO MICH. ST. GA'S& TWO ALABAMA GA'S CALL GARRETT 3506 I need 2 GA tix for the USC and Alabama gamest Call Boo Boo, £3684 HELPII need MICHIGAN GA's. Call Jane at 2179 or 3704.  ....................... Need Mich State tix II Call Drew 283­3666. HELPIII I desperately need Michigan tix and am willing to pay $$$$ call Linda 2485 or leave a note at 340 Howard Help IIIII need four tix for Michigan State or my parents won't tell me their new address in Florida. Please help me or I may be stuck In South Bend forever!lll Call Mike at 288-5832 WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213­422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. NEED MICHIGAN TIX;CALL 271-9339 AFTER 8PM NEED TWO MSU GA'S CALL JER­RY/1450 HELPf I need 2 GA'a lor USC, call Dan at 1450. Pleaee. ALABAMA TICKETSII I NEED 4 OF THEM II CALL SEAN £2836 NEED 4 USC GA'S FOR FAMILY WHO HAS NEVER SEEN A NO HOME GAMEl CALL 234-8047 ASK FOR MIKE (while humming the Notre Dame fight song...) Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame Please help my brother to do the same He'll be here for the BC game We need to get him tickets quickly, right away I Tho the odds be great or small We'll get them 'cuz we'll pay more than all And then we'll all watch her royal sons go marching onward to victory I We need two or more GA or Stud tlx to the BC game Call Therese at 4559 or 2898 I NEED TICKETS til I need two GA's for Boston College and two student tickets for Navy. Call Bill at 4653. I NEED 6 BC GA'S. Please call Shannon 2519 BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING and they need four Michigan State tick­ets. Call Brutus NOW at 283-1483. Urghl Go lrishl ............................................... I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH STI PLEASE  OUT "BAMA"I WILL PAY CASH$$$ TODAYII NOWII CALL 1683, ASK FOR TOM. DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL JENNY 284-4154 "NEED 2 ALABAMA TICKETS'' CALL KAREN 271-0927 NEED 4 STUD OR GA'S FOR MICH ST CALL 4228 OR 3607 I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL PAUL 283-3431 need 1 stud. or GA tic for MSU call2915 MY GIRLFRIEND IS VISITING NOTRE DAME all the way from LUBBOCK, TEXAS I need to get her a student ticket for the MICHIGAN STATE game. Help me out! Call Tim at 4672. CHIEF NEED 2 MSU GA'S CALL EXT. 1609. AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 STUD. TIX AND 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. GAME PLEASE CALL X 1275. NEED 2 MICH STATE TIX STUD OR GA CALL 4340 BC TICKETSIII IF YOU HAVE 'EM, I WANT 'EM! GIVE ME ANY BC TICKETS YOU HAVE PLEASE CALL 283-1151 Need MSU GAs.l've got Navy GAs to trade for the MSU's that I need If inter­ested, call Kevin. 1496 ............................... Please help melt need 4 Boston College GA'SII Do you hear? BC GA'S... WILL PAY DOLLAR SIGNSIIII (call Frank 3104) ......................................... NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX-HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE CALL JOHN AT 271·0464 I DESPERATELY NEED ONE TICKET FOF THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME -G.A. OR STUDENT. CALL CHRISTINA AT £2762. DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 G.A. TICK­ETS TO THE NAVY GAME.PAY GOOD!!! PLEASE CALL ANN AT £2815. Need MSU tix & GA's. BIG $$ Call Mike s. £3573  Thank you St. Jude for answered peti­tions. Need ride to Michigan game. Call Robert at 287-6939 SANDY C.: The solution is obvious: blow off your family, stay here, and watch Little Shop of Horrors. PAT,MIKE,& PAUL, Picture This-You owe a case to the winners! REMATCH!?! The PHENOMENAL FOUR gEEk-What did I say ? You can't spell geek without EE, but thsn you can't spell swEEt without EE either. Have a nice week and BEHAVE at U of M. Hope we can find your glasses ..... Hey, Logan Volunteerat NOOMC Council for the Retarded Organizational meeting: Thursday, Sept. 1o, 7:30 PM, Knights of Columbus Hall (by Bookstore). SMC rides at Holy Cross Hall 7:00. Problem? Call Dennis (283­4075), Marie (284-5526) or Cora (283­3391) ATTENTION BAMBI'S FINAL CUTS FOR BAMBI WILL BE HELD FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE ACC. BRING AN EVENING GOWN, A WED­DING DRESS, AND A BIKINI. CONTACT JIM FOR DETAILS. TO MOOTSIE: HOPE YOUR DAY IS SUN-FILLED & HAPPY I WE THINK YOU ARE SO NEAT·O-KEENI ENJOY YOUR LAST YEAR OF TEENAGE-HOODII WE LUV YOU HAPPY B-DAYI TOOTSIE, CHILLY & WILLY SENIOR PIZZA NIGHT at Barnaby's. $4.00-AII you can eat pizza-inc. drink specialsiiTONIGHT!I Eeeeeeeerrrright Ralphl What are you deeein? HAPPY BIRTHDAYII from: Tom, Vin and Damon RALPH, With LOVE and PRIDE to son £1 on his Birthday £2111 All our love, Mom and Dad Ralph, HAPPY "21st" BIRTHDAYII  A FEW PLACES STILL AVAILABLE IN KAPLAN 10-17 LSAT COURSE, 2ND SECTION. CALL 272-4135 TODAYI Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame I St. Mary's College (GLNOOMC) invites in­terested members of the community to contact our orgar izat1on for further in­formation at P.O. Box 194; l'lotre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality guaranteed. SMC STUDENTS If you have taken e CLASS AT NOTRE DAME, Monday or Wedneaday alter 9 pm cell Steve at 232-9816. BASS PLAYER WANTED Bass player needed for established campus band. Call Ted at 2387. BASS PLAYER WANTED PIECES OF A DREAM PIECES OF A DREAM PERFORMING SATURDAY 9:00PM STEPAN CENTER AFTER SET DANCE, 11 :00-2:00 TICKETS AT THE CELLAR, $3.00 AD­VANCE,$4.00 AT THE DOOR OR CALL BCAC 239-6841 NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 CHIPS II TUESDAY NITE FREUDIAN SLIP $2.00 Pitchers ell nhe longII SMC Damsel in distress needs 6 Mich St. tickets! 284-5460 ............................................. WANTED: MICH ST TfX. PLEASE CALL 284-4329 FEELING HELPLESS IN THE FACE OF POVERTY AND HUNGER IN THE WORLD? Come to the first mtg of over­seas development network tues 7pm at the esc to learn about what you can do NEED 3 GA'S FOR MICH STATE. CALL MEL, 2658, EVENINGS. SPEAKING OF SPORTS WVFI's sports talk show is back, talking Notre Dame football. Join Rick Rietbrock, co-host Sean Pieri and special guests, Terry Andrysiak and Anthony Johnson, for an hour of sports. Call 239-6400 to be a part of it. Talk to Terry Andryalak end Anthony Johnaon tonight on Speaking of Sports. Cell 23Q.6400 .  
3-BEDROOM APARTMENT FULLY FURNISHED BEAUTIFUL OLD HOME  Need 1 Navy Ticket G.A. Or Student Call Chris £1593  CALL NED AT 3515 Same old story--relatives want tix and  PERSONALS  Sher P.S. You can't blame it on Naugles this timet  M~~-~v-i<;'j';;t;;,·:·--············--··--··--··--· "Slap me, hll me, beat me.  
- 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS CALL 233 6298 BEING EVICTED! Must rent out 2 bedroom apt. within walking distance of  Will Pay Big Bucksl $$$NAVY TIX $$$ Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen 271-0585  are promising large inheritance for them. Sell me two GA's for any home game and share the wealth. Call 2378 after 7:00pm.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  ALEX ABRALDESIIII'm watching you. Love, Your Secret Admirer  ................................................................ "I'll wash your floor and scrub your toilets. -Missy  
campus. 271-0513  Rich Uncle will pay top dollar for four  Official minutes of the first  ................................................................  
HOUSE OF SHAME  Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998.  Navy GA's between the thirty yard lines. Call Clare 284-4104 or 312-750-4981.  WAKE UPI  Shaving Basin Corporation  They might have changed the name but SAGA lives forever in our hearts.  
legendary loft  meeting: Buy the darn thingl  
call Niels 1956  I need 2 Mich. St. G.A.s Please call David  Have 50yd U ol M Tlx. Trade for Mlch  9:02-9:04 ~7  ::o;,--y~-~-·k·~~~--h~~-i~··;;;~i.~"i;;;bi~~--;~~1  
at 4235  St Tlx-best offer. Mike X3n5  .................................................................  quick?  

Nathan, Moore, Hartenstine among NFL final releases 
' 

Associated Press and Jim Fahnhorst and running virtually guaranteed a spot. 
back Carl Monroe, who scored Coach Mike Ditka said 

Nat Moore and Tony Nathan, the first touchdown in the 1985 McMahon will spend his time two of the mainstays of the Super Bowl. on the sidelines helping him Miami offense for the past de­McMahon, who missed the and coaching the younger cade, and Tony Hill, a one-time second half of last season with players. star with Dallas, were cut Mon­a shoulder injury and under­"Even if I have to make day, while the Chicago Bears went surgery late last year, McMahon an assistant coach, put Jim McMahon on injured will have to miss at least six I want him to be out there be­reserve with the expectation weeks. cause the Bears will need all that he can help their young That move at least temporar­the help they can get," Ditka quarterbacks develop. ily kept a spot on the Bears' said. 
Hill, released by Dallas ear­roster for Doug Flutie, the 5-Moore and Nathan were cut lier this year and picked up by foot-9 Reisman Trophy winner. as Miami made the unusual San Francisco, was among a Mike Tomczak has been start­move of keeping four group of veterans released by ing in McMahon's place and quarterbacks-Dan Marino, the 49ers. They also included Jim Harbaugh, the team's top Don Strock, Ron Jaworski and linebackers Tom Cousineau draft pick this year, had been Jim Jensen, who also doubles as special teams captain and backup wide receiver. The Dol­phins also placed linebacker Hugh Green back on injured reserve, where he spent most of last season with a knee in­jury. 

The Bears released veteran 

Tony Nathan 
defensive linemen Mike Hart­enstine and Henry Waechter along with punter Maury Buford. 
Among the other players cut was defensive end Daryl Sims, Pittsburgh's first-round draft pick two years ago. 
McEnroe 
continued from page 16 
when he took a break to marry 
actress Tatum O'Neil. No luck. 
Same old Mac. 
Perhaps he will mellow when 
he hits his mid-30s. But until 
then, he will always draw the 
ire of tennis' hierarchy. 
As long as he continues to in­
furiate umpires, though, he will have a certain following. This may be, in part, because he is part of a vanishing breed -an American who can compete among the game's best. In ad­dition to that, he makes the game more akin to more familiar sports -football, bas­ketball and baseball -where players are allowed to argue their case. 

S N FRANCISC 
• 

Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm Washington Hall Tickets on sale at the Washington Hall box office 91.4 -91.6 12-6 pm 
• ~~ 

$4.00 ND;SMC student "~ <:;~ $8.00 public ~fl.~~ ~~ ~ For information, """~~ k._....~fl.l ~'lJ.'(, 
.v N"' Vv ~ 

Call 239 7757 c...~~ ~ 

Players in these sports have to touch an official, kick dirt on him or use words that would even make McEnroe blush to get fines. Fans of these sports aren't used to players being on their best behavior when the outcome of the contest is in doubt. 
These fans like to see some­one scratch and claw when they feel they are wronged. 

Managers get loud support conform to the laws laid out. when they stalk out to the Hence, he is always considered mound to lay into an umpire. to be out of line when these out­A confrontation between a bursts occur. player and umpire is always in­teresting and often something Maybe McEnroe is not an un­to look forward to. And who controllable evil. He may just says the player is always the be misplaced. · If he were a one out of line? baseball star, his tantrums 
Tennis, however, has a cer-wouldn't be abnormal, they tain degree of etiquette. John would make Billy Martin green McEnroe's behavior does not with envy. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
FINANCE CLUB 
FIRST GENERAL MEETING 
ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS WELCOME 
WEDNESDAY SEPT. 9 122 HAYES-HEALY 
7:00-7:30 CAN'T COME? ANY QUESTIONS? CALL x1473 OR x1475 ASK F,OR p at 
But he's not a baseball player, he's a tennis player, once the game's finest. Since he placed himself in tennis, he is forced to abide by the rules, however confining. Until he does, he will always be tabbed as a player with all the talents suited for tennis, but none of its celebrated 'class.' 
·stebbinS 
continued from page 16 
"and Detroit has got young, quality kids. But we try to worry about ourselves more than the other team." 
The Irish will try to chalk up two more victories this week before taking on traditional powerhouse Indiana in Bloomington next Saturday. They do not, however, dismiss the importance of the the two games they play prior to taking on the Hoosiers. 
"I.U. could be a distraction," 
said Grace, "but the kids know we've got to take one game at a ~~~~~captain Steve Lowney echoed Grace's sentiments. 
"Everyone is thinking about I.U.," says Lowney, "but not going into the game 4-0 would
1-----------;1~~~----------$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ be a shame.'' 
.............................................................................. 
JOIN SARG 

The Student Alumni Relations Group 
is seeking new members. SARG sponsors Career Days, Lecture Series, Geographic Clubs, Career Information Nights and much more. Become a part of action! Pick up application In. 
201 Administration Building. Deadline for applications is 4:30 on Friday, September 11 . 
...............................................................................
~~· 


page 12 The Observer 
•

Bell powers Reds past Dodgers 1n 13," 3-2 



t 
ne 



Whether you're into business, science or engineering, TI has all the right calculators with all the right functions for you. 
Every year, thousands of hapless students watch their course load become an overload. And every year, the smart ones among them pick up a TI calculator and take a load off. 
TI offers everything from advanced scientifics that clock your performances, to program, mables that speak your language, to a solar,powered financial calcu, lator that highlights your answers even in low light conditions. 
And the large, color,coded keys and simple keyboard layouts mean you'll spend less time figuring out the calculator and more time figuring out your problems. 
© 1987 Tl. '"Trndemark of Texas Instruments Incorporated 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Buddy Bell homered on the first pitch in the bottom of the 13th inning Monday and gave the Cincin­nati Reds a 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles. Dodgers. 
Astros 4, Giants 2 
HOUSTON -Mike Scott pitched a three-hitter, retiring the last 26 batters in a row, and Glenn Davis hit the game­winning homer in the seventh to lead the Houston Astros to a 4-2 victory over San Francisco Monday night. 
Clubs 
continued from page 16 
One Irish team placed third, behind only Purdue and Mic­higan, and the other group finished eighth. 
Freshman Roberta Bryer 
was the low Irish scorer and 
placed third overall in the 
tournament with two rounds of 
79. Junior Carolyn Burke finished eighth in the individual competition. 
Other freshmen leading Notre Dame included Heidi Hansen and Kristin Kolesar. 
The Irish continue their season this weekend with a tournament at Purdue. 
• 
Having been dealt a convinc­ing season-opening loss by the University of Michigan last year, the Rugby Club will try to get its revenge on the Wol­verines this Saturday. 
Phillies 5, Mets 3 
NEW YORK -Juan Samuel's two-run single snapped a seventh-inning tie as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the New York Mets 5-3 Monday night. 
Yankees 9, Red Sox 5 
BOSTON -Willie Randolph ignited a 17-hit attack with a two-run homer in the first in­ning and Dave Winfield went 4-for-5 Monday night, leading the New York Yankees to a 9-5 victory over the Boston Red Sox. 
Notre Dame will meet Mic­
higan at Ann Arbor on Satur­
day morning before the football 
game between the same two 
schools. 
"Michigan will be really tough," said Sean Evers. "They beat us last year by about 15 points, so it will be in­teresting to see how we hold up against them. 
• 
The Sailing Club also starts 
its season in the state of Mic­
higan this weekend. Notre 
Dame will be competing in a 
regatta at the Diamond Lake 
Yacht Club. 
Among the 19 schools com­
peting are all the schools from 
the Midwest Collegiate Sailing 
Association and the United 
States Naval Academy. 
"The Naval Academy will 
definitely be tough," said Club 
President Mark Ryan. "Mic­
higan and Wisconsin will also 
•

Expos 9, Cardinals 2 
MONTREAL -Andres Galar­raga homered and drove in three runs and the Montreal Expos took advantage of three St. Louis errors Monday to rout the Cardinals 9-2. 
Twins 8, White Sox 1 
MINNEAPOLIS -Rookie Jeff Bittiger pitched seven strong innings in his American League debut and Tom Brunansky homered and doubled Monday, leading the Minnesota Twins over the Chicago White Sox 8-1. 
be tough. We're looking to finish in the top five or top three." 
• 

Another club that has seen a large number of new people this year, the Rowing Club, will wait until Sept. 26 to start its season. 
The crew teams will begin the year at Pittsburgh in the Head of the Ohio. The regatta will benefit the Mercy Hospital Foundation. 
·~Knights of the Castle Men's Hairstyling 
YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
2_72-0312 277-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 
Blue Jays 5, Brewers 3 
MILWAUKEE -Tony Fer­nandez hit an RBI single and Milwaukee reliever Dan Plesac threw two wild pitches during a three-run rally in the eighth inning Monday as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Brewers 5-3 for their sixth straight victory. 
Royals 5, Angels 2 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Frank 

White hit a three-run homer ------------. 
and doubled and Charlie Lei brandt pitched seven strong innings Monday as the Kansas 
The club is expecting 50 or 60 
people to join its novice pro­gram, along with 40 people combined on the the varsity men's and women's teams . 
"Graduation won't hurt us as much as in past years," said Club President Bill Milon. "The women's team only had 
one graduating senior." 
Chris Nye returns to coach the men's team, and Veronica Weadock, Sam Wing and Susan Pusek will be coaching the wo­men's team. 

City Royals beat the California Angels 5-2. 
Tigers 12, Orioles 4 

BALTIMORE -Alan Tram­mell hit a three-run homer and Jack Morris won his 17th game as the Detroit Tigers trounced the Baltimore Orioles 12-4 Mon­day night and remained one­half game behind first-place Toronto in the American League East. 
~if Saint Mary's Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
1987-88 
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
PRESENTS 
THE 
INDIANAPOLIS 
BALLET THEATRE 
. . 

~ 
FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 11 8:00P.M. 
O'LAUGHllN AUDITOIUVM SAINT MARY'S COWGE 
TICKETS: $7.50,$6.50, $~50 
$1.00 off with student J.D. To Charge By Phone: 284-4626 ~lsa, mastercard accepted 



AP Photos American Brad Gilbert Is celebrating after his upset win over second· seeded Boris Becker (Inset) In the U.S. Open late last night. Becker won the first set 6·2 before Gilbert won two straight tiebreakers on his way to victory. 
The Observer 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager Night Typesetter 
For further information contact Shawn Sexton at The Observer (239-5303) 
The Observer page 13 
U.S. Open tennis 

LendI, Graf, Connors advance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Top seeds Ivan Lendl and Steffi Graf advanced to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open tennis championships Monday, but No. 4 women's seed Hana Mandlikova lost after being penalized a game for smashing her racket against a scoreboard. 
Sixth-seeded Jimmy Connors and No. 8 John McEnroe also moved into the quarterfinals at the National Tennis Center. 
Connors, hobbling on an in­jured right foot, beat No. 11 Henri Leconte 6-7 (0-7), 6-4,6-4, 6-3. 
McEnroe, who faces fines and a two-month suspension for a tirade during his third-round victory, was relatively calm as he defeated No. 9 Andres Gomez 6-4, 7-6 (7-2), 6-3. 
Connors said his injury, which doctors have been un­able to diagnose, won't force him out the tournament. "I'd play out there on a peg leg if I had to," he said. "It's the U.S. 

Open. It only happens once a year." 
Mandlikova, who lost to No. 9 Claudia Kohde-Kilsch 6-7 (4­7), 6-4, 6-1, was the second player to be penalized a game for poor behavior at the tourn­ament. In his victory victory over Slobodan Zivojinovic Sat­urday, McEnroe was penalized for cursing and yelling. 
Lendl, the two-time defend­ing champion, beat No. 16 Anders Jarryd 6-2, 7-6 (7-2), 6-4 while Graf downed No. 13 Syl­via Hanika 7-5, 6-2. 
Other women advancing to the quarterfinals were second­seeded Martina Navratilova, No.3 Chris Evert, No.6 Helena Sukova, No. 8 Gabriela Sabatini and No. 11 Lori McNeil. 
In men's play, 14th-seeded Emilio Sanchez lost to unseeded Ken Flach in a third­round match delayed by rain. 
Mandlikova got her first warning after cursing an offi­cial who had just called a foot 

ALL FOOD PRODUCTS FRESH DAILY WE CATER SANDWICHES-ALL TYPES 
MON-THURS 
& SIZES TO 6 FT 

10AM • 12 MID
WE DELIVER AFTER 5 PM 

FRI 10 AM • 2 AM 
(2 MILE RADIUS) 

SAT 10 AM • 2 AM 
EAT IN OF? CARRY OUT SUN 10:30 AM· 10 PM 
DELIVERY CATERING112 BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE 272-4453DAME ST R 23 
fault on her in the fifth game 
of the first set. 
Her temper flared again 
after she lost the second game 
of the third set by hitting a shot 
wide. When she cursed at the 
line official, Mandlikova was 
given a point penalty that 
forced her to start the next 
game down 0-15. 
Mandlikova lost that game to 
fall behind 2-1 in the set. During 
the changeover, the 25-year-old 
Czechoslovakian slammed her 
racket against the scoreboard, 
prompting head referee Geor­
gina Clark to penalize her a 
game. 

Kohde-Kilsch won the next 
three games to close out the 
match. After shaking hands 
with Kohde-Kilsch, 
Mandlikova again smacked the 
scoreboard with her racket 
before leaving the court. 
After the match, Cl~~rk said 
Mandlikova would be fined 
$500. Mandlikova could be fined 
up to $10,000 after further review by a discliplinary com­mittee made up of players and a representative of the Wo­men's International Tennis As­sociation. 
Clark said Mandlikova would not be suspended. 
WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
EARLY AM OR EVEN/NOS 
The Tl-60 Advanced Scientific ft!atures such huilc-m functions as hexa­decimal!< 'ccal n mversi<ms. integration using Simpson's rule, scati.~tics (including linear re!,'Tessi< m), trend line malysis and metric to English conversion.~. There are also 84 {JTO!,'Tamming seeps {c1r repetitive calculacions. 
The Tl-65 Advanced Scientific offers all ofthe built-in functions ofthe T/-60, 
plus a stopwatch/ timer fcrr lab­
WIJTk, eight physical constants fc~r use in thermodynamics and physics a.~ well as Decision Program· ming (if. ..chen) capabilities. There are also I00 pro­RTamming seeps fc~r repetitive calculati< ms. 
ews. • 
The Tl-74 BASICALC"' Programmable Advanced Scientific is TI's BASIC language programmable calculator. 
In addition to offering a full range ofscientific, mathematical and sta­tistical functions, the TI-74 offers 


a I/3 BASIC keyword set with a 
TheTI
special function key that gives direct 
Business
2-keystroke access to 41 BASIC 
Analyst Solar
commands. The TI-74 also has 
features Tl'ssubroutine capability fc>r advanced exclusive Anyliteprogramming flexibility. 
Solar1"' technol­ogy, so you can use it in any 
light. Preprogrammed fc>rmulas help youThe TI-95 PROCALC"' is speed through business problems such as keystroke programmable and also interest, loans, real estate, bonds, pricing
offers a full range ofscientific, and profit. mathematical and statistical functions. 



Featured in the TI-95 is Tl's exclu­
sive Po~er WindowsrM Operating So pick up a TI calculator today. System, which provides easy access It'll save you a lot of grief and it to the functions and flexible file 
might just save your skin. 
management system. Both the Tl-95 and the TI-74offer optional equip­ment such as Solid State Softwarer"' modules, an BK constant memory module, a portable printer and 
TEXAS.Jf 
cassette interface. 

INSTRUMENTS 
______________________________________________. 

-
Tuesday, September 8, 1987
page 14 The Observer 
White leads MSU past usc 27-13 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. ­Michigan State ended Southern Cal's 13-year mastery of the Big Ten Conference by defeat­ing the 19th-ranked but error­prone Trojans 27-13 Monday night as Spartan tailback Lorenzo White ran for two touchdowns. 
Southern Cal had won 17 con­secutive games against Big Ten opposition since a 42-21loss to Ohio State in the Rose Bowl on Jan. 1, 1974. 
It was the college football opener for both teams and made Larry Smith the fifth con­secutive Southern Cal coach who failed to win his debut. 


Dillon pair emerges victorious in biathlon 
Participants In the NVA Biathlon awalt the start 
By PAT KEARNS 
Sports Writer 
Many Notre Dame athletes spent Saturday afternoon swimming and running in a grueling competition known as the biathlon. 
Organized by Non-Varsity Athletics, the biathlon con­sisted of a half-mile swim in St. Joseph's Lake directly followed by a two-mile run around the lakes. 
The tandem division was won by the team of Brian Rini and Dave Steigerwald of Dillon Hall, who crossed the finish line in 19 minutes and five seconds. Twelve other teams finished behind the winners. 
Dave Ledrick of Morrissey took the men's singles division in an impressive time of 21 minutes, 53 seconds. Ledrick finished before several tandem teams and was first in a field of 18 men in winning the event. 
The women's division was captured in a time of 30 minutes, 31 seconds by Amy Jenista. The Breen-Phillips res­ident crossed the finish line before eight other biathletes to win the race. 
The competitors were grouped into three different 
Pr1 x Chrisli 
Organizational Meeting Tonight, 7:30 P.M. • Center for Social Concerns Learn more about Pax Christi. Meet other people who share your interest in peace. Questins? Call Dan Keusal 239-7943 or 234-8984 
1 Formerly Giannetto's 
II 
Tuesday Special-$! OFF Pizza
1Featuring our delicious Pizza, 
Sandwiches, Dinners, 1I Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava.I 
1 Beer and Wine.served. 
I 234-3541 
I Spm-11 pm 1'I Monday-Saturday "·I Dine In or Carry Out 
I I 
I 
J ,.~.., I 
i' 
I 

of. the swimming portion of the competition. 
categories, all beginning the shoes in order to begin the two­swim at the same time. The mile run to the finish line. tandem team classification It takes a well-trained athlete had one person swimming and to compete in a biathlon and an a teammate running. There even better one to finish it. A were also singles categories for few biathletes were forced to men and women. drop out of the race, but to the 
In the tandem division, the athletes' credit most finished 
runner began his leg as the the competition. team's swimmer emerged The biathlon had a good tur­from the water. In the singles nout this year. A total of 53 ath­
divisions, the competitor had to letes competed, enough inter­leave the water and change est for the NVAto run the event quickly into shorts, a shirt, and again next year. 
I
1 

You can do a lot. more with your degree than just get a job. As a Navy officer, you can lead the adventure! 
* 
No experience necessary

* 
ALL majors considered 


Today's Navy is top-flight people working with the best in their field. It's also sophisticated technical and management tra ing in executive, managerial, professional, scientific and technical positions. 
You don't have to wait until you graduate! Navy Officer representativ~s will •~ on campus conducting an exclusive testing session. All interested students who are within 3 years of graduating are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Testing takes approximately 31:; hours ahd ~~ats are limited. 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
point last year. 
Returning to the number-one spot is sophomore Jennifer Block. Block improved her game over the summer by working with a professional at the Kalamazoo Country Club. A strong performance is also expected of junior Char­lene Szajko. Sophomore Elizabeth Heinz and freshman Sarah Mayer will also be major contrubutors. ' "The team may be young, but we have a lot of depth which I'm especially excited about. The top six have a lot of expe­rience," said Laverie. 
This experience will be cru­cial early, as the Belles will be competing in seven tough dual matches to prepare for the seven-team Saint Mary's Invi­tational on Sept. 26-27. The squad will face three Division-I schools before this tourna­ment. 
The tournament will include NCAA power and defending Mid-American Conference champion Bowling Green and Saint Francis College of the NAIA among others. 

Also returning are junior Sandra Hickey and sop­homores Jane Schnell and Kelly Seppi. Freshmen Mary Kate Coyle, Michelle Cheney, Carrie Goethals and Mary Turk fill the remaining spots. 
DATE: September 11th TIME: 8 a.m., 1 & 5 p. PLACE: Placement Office (Conference Room) 
~ ~-

Tescing appointment may be obtained by calling ~~~5(5
r----------------~ 

F[IG~Ia2~F!EE~~l,200 ($35,000 after 4 ya~rs). 20/20 correctable vision. Ages 19-26. Operate the electroJ:ics & computers in the Navy's newest aircraft. 
BUSINESS MANAGER:
I CLUB 23 I 

· Start at $21,200 ($35,000 after 4 years). Finance, personnel, logistics. Ages 19-28. 
I ENGINEER: . 
I 
start at $23,500 ($45,000 afte~ 4 years). Bonus when selected. Project management. Engineering/Science/Technical major. Ages 19-28. 
SOPHOMORES & JUNIORS: 
NAVAL AVIATION CADET: . 
sophomores from 4-year or Conunur 1; ·, College that are u':'decJ.ded abo':It continuing college may qualify ~ur inunediate rilot traJ.ning. RequJ.rements: 60 semester hours, 2.5 GPA, ~ p~s-the aptitude test. Single/no dependents. 
AVIAIION RESERVE oFFICER cAIIDIDAIE: 
Guaranteed PJ.lot/Fll.ght Ofhcer TraH""'' at AOCS (Pens.Jcola, FL) during Junior year summer break and upon comph ·'on of BS/BA degree. 
BACCALAOREAIE DEGREE cOMPLEIION PROGRAM: 
An Affirmative Action program for students wjt~ • "B" average, or better. Selected students will receive $1000 a month unt" . araduation. No drilling or meetings required. 
EXcEP r!ONAL ENGINEERING SIODEN I PROGRAM: ,
sophomores & Jun1ors maJOrJ.na ~n Engineering, Math, Physics, or ChemJ.stry. Must maintain a 3.3/4.0 GPA. Selected students will receive $1100 a month until graduation, plus additional bonuses. No drilling or meetings required. 
Must be a U.S. citizen & in good health. 

NAVY¥0FFICER. 
I 
~S:E~S2?~~?:Ef£Fri23e.~~£B~~~~~IE§.~-:i'i~f~~ 
I ~~ ~ LEAD THE ADVENTURE.
I 744 N. Notre Dame .;"' etue 23 Large Groups & Clubs Welcome I
I

----------------~-------------------------------­
Campus The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS
12:10 p.m.-12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk: "W. Eugene Smith at Notre Dame," by 
1 In this place
Dr. Dean Porter, O'Shaughnessy Gallery 
5 Horse 

4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar: "Application of NMR Spectroscopy to 
9 Flotilla 
14 -Ludwig 15 Mine entrance 
Problems in the Biological Sciences," by Dr. Thomas Nowak, Dept. of Chemistry, 
Room 283, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
16 Long-limbed
6:00p.m.: Senior Pizza Night at Barnaby's, $4.00 for "all you can eat" pizza 
17 Find strength
including drink specials. 
20 Grin 

21 Massive 22 Drs.
7:00p.m.: Notre Dame Communication and Theater'Film: "Le Million," Annen­
berg Auditorium 
25 Negative
7:00p.m.: Arts and Letters Placement Night for senior Arts and 
26 Loathes 
Letters majors at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
30 Fruit acid 
32 Heart 33 Unusual 
7:30 p.m.: Organizational meeting sponsored by Pax Christi at the Center for 
Social Concerns 
34 Pod fruit
9:00p.m.: Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film: "Playtime," Annen­
35 Flies alone 

berg Auditorium 
.. 



--­D(IV£ 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Ham, Turkey, Broccoli & Cheese Sandwich Spinach Quiche Roast Beef 
Comics 
Bloom County 
/?01'/T .JIIY IT 


37 Meadow 38 Find boldness 41 Dexterity 42 Shore birds 
43 Raccoon's relative 
O::J I 

45 Varnish Ingredients 47 Play on 
©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 09/08/87 All Rights Reserved 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 11 Sp. queen 12 Ovum 13 Nautical chain 18 Volume of 
reprints 19 Actress Merle 22 1,200 23 Blueprint 24 Extend 26 Distributes 27 Rescue cargo 28 Place for a 

nest 29 Red or Black 31 Malarkey! 32 George M. ­35 Swagger 36 Worldly 39 Appears 09/DB/87 
unexpectedly 40 "Tarzan" ­

Ely 51 Social 58 Human being 41 Pie -mode group 59 Also 44 One -million 54 Anthracite 60 Article 46 Choose 55 Endure 61 Racing shell 48 Boss 56 Crow call man for short 50 Rakes 57 WWII org. 62 Spicy 
Far Side Gary Larson 

"Yes ... will you accept a collect caHie call from Lester?" 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Baked Fish Beef & Vegetable Stir Fry Corn Dog Deli Bar 

48 Persevered 
49 Mass. college 51 Mountain pass 52 Environmental 
agency: abbr. 53 Gehrig or 
Gossett 54 Waterway 56 Pass muster 63 Speedily 64 Vow 65 Beat It! 66 Desires 67 Butterlne 68 Subject 
DOWN 1 "For -a 
jolly ..." 2 Flightless bird 3 Brink 4 Trees 5 Cassava 6 Mature person 7 Mature 8 And so forth: 
abbr. 9 Oranges and apples 10 More huge 
Berke Breathed 
:r CAN'T HEAR. 
50N. IU 9€ fN
YOV.TM NOT 
U.5TeNINt?... 
Wl771 771€ fiNT5 
I KNOW WHfiT 
YO(}'Kf" /JNP MOlA55f5
IJIIIJ.. 
~ 8tll
YOt/'R£ &oll'l& 
JI/5T 7rJ 5AY IIN!J 
I 
/JLA 
&£mN& /?ON'T 5AY IT 
Ot..!J.
8LI/ 
fJI/17.
/ 

Beernuts Mark Williams 



SUB presents: BURGLAR VVednesday &Thursday 7:00, 9:00, ll:OOpm
FREE admission 

Engineering Auditorium
Monday, September 14 7·00pm 
$2.00
Notre Dame Room-2nd Floor Lafortune 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~---~~------------------~--­

Sports 
Tuesday, September 8, 1987
page 16 
McEnroe's antics hard to swallow 
Some things just never change, and John McEnroe's behavior on the tennis courts may be one of those things. 
When McEnroe smashed and grunted his way into tennis prominence, experts viewed him as a great talent with a sometimes-damaging temper. His scouting reports read very much the same way today. 
Saturday, in the U.S. Open Tennis Tournament's third round, McEnroe broke into one of his patented outbursts, and now he's paying for it. He was hit with a two-month suspension ~n~ fines tha_t tot_al_ $17,500. McEnroe will ap­peal the decision, so he IS ehgible to continue competing in the Open. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Naturally, everyone must hate this guy. 
But despite constantly hearing about 'Big Mac Attacks' and other deplorable acts by 'McNasty' and reading what a disgrace his behavior is to the gentlemanly sport of tennis, how vulgar and objectionable a picture he presents to the youth of our nation and what an out-and-out imbecile he is, he still has a decent fan following. 
That is not to say he's the fans' darling, of course. The folks at Wimbledon will not honor him with too many ovations. He was also booed by American fans in Davis Cup competition. He seems, however, to command a cer­tain amount of respect that carries over the tantrums and the 'brat' image. Why? 
A large group of tennis fans will say that they greatly admire McEnroe's tennis ability (especially before he took time off from the game), but abhor his whining and con­stant complaining. Great player, but lousy person. 
This group prefers the cool demeanor of players such as Mats Wilander. Perhaps the best example was the highly-respected Bjorn Borg, who was a great competitor but did not let that turn him into an intimidating maniac. 
But these fans are drawing a fine line. Ivan Lendl has one of the game's coolest approaches, yet he is viewed as cold and distant. 
Detractors of Lendl will say they prefer someone who shows some emotion, someone who they know is giving a great effort. Who better to display that mode than Boris Becker, who dives more often in a year than Greg Louganis. The fans seem to want assurances that the game requires all-out effort and Lendl makes it look too easy. 
No one can say that McEnroe does not play with inten­sity, but he carries it too far for the refined, cultured fan that wants the game to be a montage of courteous smiles and sportsmanlike handshakes. He swims against the tide. 
Not too long ago, another American player, Jimmy Con­nors, was the game's bad boy. He was the one lashing out at the umpires and then he couldn't even get along with Chris Evert, the ultimate sweetheart. 
Now Connors is wearing a white hat. He's the old guy, still hanging in there, battling the young turks and the fans love him. He has mellowed with age and most of his demonstrations are poking fun at himself, not the umpires. What a great guy he turned out to be. 
The tennis world held its breath and hoped the same process would bring McEnroe's antics down to a simmer 
see MCENROE, page 11 
Major League Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  NATIONAL LEAGUE  
e..t  Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Toronto  83  54  .606  St. Louis  81  55  .596  
Detroit  82  54  .603  .5  New York  78  59  .569  3.5  
New York  78  59  .569  5  Montreal  77  59  .566  4  
Milwaukee  74  63  .540  9  Philadelphia  71  66  .518  10.5  
Boston  64  72  .471  18.5  Chicago  68  68  .500  13  
Baltimore  62  75  .453  21  Pittsburgh  63  74  .460  18.5  
Cleveland  53  86  .381  31  
WHI  San Francisco  WHI 74  64  .536  
Minnesota  74  65  .532  Houston  69  68  .504  4.5  
Oakland  70  67  .511  3  Cincinnati  69  69  .500  5  
Kansas City  68  70  .493  5.5  Atlanta  58  78  .426  15.  
California  67  71  .486  6.5  Los Angeles  57  80  .416  16.5'  
Texas  64  73  .467  9  San Diego  56  81  .409  17.5  
Seattle  64  73  .467  9  
Chicago  58  79  .423  15  

Monday'l RHUIII 
Monday'a Ruulta Montreal 9, St. Louis 2 
Seattle 6, Cleveland 4 Cincinnati 3, Los Angeles 2, 13 innings
Minnesota 8, Chicago 1 Pittsburgh 3, Chicago 2 
Toronto 5, Milwaukee 3 San Diego 11 , Atlanta 4 
Kansas City 5, California 2 Philadelphia 5, New York 3 
Detroit 12, BaHimore 4 Houston 4, San Francisco 2 
New York 9, Boston 5 Oakland 2, Texas 1 Tueaday'a Gemea Tueadey'a Gemea Detroit (Terrell 12• ) at BaHimore (Dixon _) Pittsburgh (Palacios 0-0) at Chicago (Sutcliffe 15-7)
10 78
N Los Angeles (Hershiser 13-13) at Cincinnati ew York (Hudson 9-5) at Boston (Nipper 8-11) (Robinson 6-3) Seattle (Morgan 1Q-15) at Cleveland (Yett 3-6) St. Louis (Forsch 10-4) at Montreal (Smith 8-6) 
Chicago (Bannister 11-10) at Minnesota (Biyleven Philadelphia(Ruffin 10-11) at New York (Fernandez 13-10) . . 10-8) Toronto (SIIeb 13-7) at Milwaukee (Bosio 9-5) ' S o· (Wh"
Kansas City (Gubicza 9•16) at California (Reuss 4-2) an 'ego_ 1tson 10-10) at Atlanta (P. Smith 0-0) Texas (Hough 14-11) at Oakland (Nelson 6-4) ~;~rranclsco (Krukow 3-6) at Houston (Deshalses 


Stebbins adds spark to Irish 
Irish forward Dan Stebbins (3) chases down the ball In Friday night's game against Drake. Molly 
N D soccer heads north 
The Observer I Greg Kohs 

Mahoney features Stebbins below. 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team will put its spotless 2-0 record on the line this week as it takes to the road to play Detroit and Western Michigan. 
One of the keys to a success­ful road trip that will tally two more victories for the Irish will be the play of freshman Dan Stebbins. 
The Milwaukee native has only two games experience com'lng off the bench for the Irish, but his play has already made an impact on the team. 
"He is a tremendous ath­lete," says Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "He's good soc­cer player with ·good technique and he has shown a lot of maturity." 
Stebbins declined scholar­ship offers from Indiana, Evansville and Wisconsin­Milwaukee, opting instead for Notre Dame's program which 
SMC tennis opens year at Valpo 
By ANNE GALLAGHER 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's varsity ten­
nis team plans to open its . 
season at 3 p.m. today at Val­
paraiso. 

Belles coach Debre Laverie 
expressed strong optimism for 
the season. 

"There is no reason we can't 
go undefeated in our division," 
said Laverie. The squad 
returns with two juniors and 
four sophomores. Almost half 
the te!im this year will be fresh­
men. 

"As usual we've drawn a 
great recruiting class without 
scholarships," said Laverie. 
Other reasons for optimism 
are the increase of a competi­
tive attitude among the players 
and their good physical condi­
tion. 

Laverie's goal is to win the 
Indiana State Championships 
and advance to the NAIA na­
tional championships, which 
escaped the team's grasp by a 
see BELLES, page 14 
has become competitive among regional powers and of­fers a student-athlete a chance for a strong academic back­ground. 
Stebbins has accepted his po­sition as a forward coming off the bench and has been able to make a smooth transition into the ranks of college soccer. 
Although used to more scoring responsibilities, he has not been pressured to come up with the goals that Grace in­sists "will come experience." 
"I'd like to become a stronger finisher in scoring and possibly earn a starting posi­tion," says Stebbins, "but for now I'm glad to have a chance to push some of the seniors into playing harder and in doing so make them better players.'' 
He hopes that scoring his first goal will break the ice and lessen the nerves that have slightly hampered his play thus far. He has compensated for a lack of experience with his in­tense play. 
"He has the work ethic and the attitude that we are looking for," says Grace. "He has been cooperative in trying to grow and learn and we are very pleased with him." 
The Irish will need strpng performances out the entire team to do well against a tough Detroit team. The Titans have already defeated thet Great Lakes region's sixth ranked team, Bowling Green, despite beginning only its first year with varsity status. 
Much like Notre Dame, West­ern Michigan will enter tomor­row's game with momentum gained in a victory over Drake. The Broncos will be looking to avenge last year's 2-0 loss to the Irish. 
"Western Michigan is a young team that starts five to six freshman," said Grace, 
see STEBBINS, page 11 

Women's soccer ties Illinois 
While . most club teams are planning to begin their seasons m the next week or two the Women's Soccer Club started its season last weekend. 
The Irish ~raveled to the University of Illinois last Sat­urday and played the Fighting Illini to a scoreless tie. Goalkeeper Helen Gilboy was a key to the defense's strong performance on the road. · 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 


"The de~ense was definitely strong," said Club Secre­tary and nght halfback Karen Logsdon. "We didn't get enou~h.shots off. We're a young team, and we'd only been pracbcmg a week." . 
Notre Dame will play two games this week, traveling to Wheaton tomorrow and meeting Marquette on Sunday in the squad's first home game. . "We'l~ be competitive," said Logsdon. "Our middle's mexpenenced, but I think we're going to have a good season." 
• 

Another team competing last weekend was the Women's Golf Club, which hosted an 11-team tournament last Sat­urday and Sunday. 
Notre Dame split into two squads for the tournament. 
see CLUBS, page 12 



