
---~---­

Thundershowers 
A 60 percent chance of thun­dershowers today, high in the mid 70s. Cloudy and warm Wednesday with a decreasing 
IACCENT: Saint Mary's childhood center 
[VIEWPOINT: Student defends policy 
chance of showers. 


Carnival worker arraigned in Beauchamp slayings 
't ~··''"": 
..., "' I, 
__...... 
The Observeii'Suzanne Poch 
from the Fieldhouse Mall during LaFortune's 
Open House yesterday. 
Up from the depths 
Tom Tlsa helps John Rogers, an engineer for WVFI-AM, exit from the steam tunnel leading from LaFortune. The radio station was broadcasting 
Associated Press 
FERNDALE, Mich. -A car­nival worker in Detroit during the Michigan State Fair was charged Monday with stran­gling the elderly parents of Notre Dame Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp, Ferndale Police Chief Patrick Sullivan said. 
Michael A. Root, 30, a 
Lakeview  native  whose  last  
known  address  was  in  
Youngstown,  Ohio,  was  ar­ 

raigned in 43rd District Court 


ACC thief 'SWATted' in flight 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
News Editor 
A man who stole a 1977 Na­tional Championship plaque and 1979 Cotton Bowl football from the ACC was ap­prehended Wednesday when he accidently ran into the South Bend Police SWAT team prac­ticing nearby, said Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson. 
At about 2:45 p.m. Wednes­day a man, who Security will on two counts of first-degree murder and one count of first­degree criminal sexual con­duct, or rape, Sullivan said. 

Root was ordered held with­out bond in the Oakland County Jail pending preliminary ex­amination Sept. 21 before Dis­trict Judge Douglas Voss, Sul­livan said. 
Conviction on first-degree murder is punishable by man­datory life imprisonment with­out parole; conviction on the sex charge is punishable by up to life imprisonment, the chief said. 
not yet identify, forced open a showcase lock at the Joyce Ath· letic and Convocatoin Center, taking the plaque and football, Johnson said. 
The suspect, who is not a Notre Dame student, was later spotted by Security east of campus near U.S. · 23, said Johnson. 
Additional Security officers were then called to search for the suspect, who fled into a nearby wooded area, he said. 
The South Bend Police SWAT 

Police from three agencies arrested Root and a female companion Sunday afternoon in rural Mecosta County, five days after Edward and Marion Beauchamp were found stran­gled in their bed following a break-in. 
Edward Beauchamp, 75, and Marion Beauchamp, 74, were the parents of Father Beau­champ, second in command be­hind University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy. Services for the couple were held Friday. 
Root and Nilda E. Lopez, 26, 
team, however, was conduct­ing a training excercise in the woods, and the suspect was ap­prehended, Johnson said. 
The plaque and football were recovered, he added. 
The suspect, who was taken to the St. Joseph County Jail, will be charged with theft, pro­viding false information about his identity and age and resist­ing arrest, said Johnson. 
Security took the plaque and football into its posession as evidence, he added. 


Pope visits sick; raps abortion 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Pope John Paul II held a tiny premature baby in his arms Monday, then denounced the "great evil of abortion and euthanasia" and repeated his condemnation of any form of test-tube fertiliza­tion. 
He also reserved time during his one-day stop in this South­western state for a talk with the original owners -American Indians. 
The meeting with the Indians was the first of its kind -a gat­hering of 16,000 from 195 tribes and officials of dioceses that minister to them. 
There are 285,000 Indians among the nation's 52.9 million Catholics. 
The pontiff's first stop after arriving from San Antonio, Texas, was at St. Joseph's Hospital, where he visited three children in their rooms and stopped in a playroom to see ten others. 
"Johnny, can you wake up and open your eyes for a min­ute? There's someone here to see you," said Hope Adrian, whose 15-year-old son, Johnny, was in the first room to be visited by the pope. There was no response from the boy, who has been diagnosed as having an inoperable brain tumor. 
of Miami, had been staying at a Detroit motel about a mile from the Beauchamps' home while working at the state fair, Sullivan said. Police were trying Monday to determine which company employed the pair, the chief said. 
Root and Lopez were ar­rested without incident at the cabin southeast of Mecosta in the westcentral Lower Penin­sula. 
Police also recovered a car allegedly stolen from the Beauchamps after they were slain. But Sullivan said Root 

New equipment to rid area of ethanol smell 
By CARl MARTINEZ 
News Staff 
Ethanol. The familiar odor of ethanol around Notre Dame will soon subside, said Nathan Kimpel, general manager at the local ethanol plant. 
The New Energy Com­pany of Indiana is in the process of installing odor abatement equipment which will be in operation by the end of October. 
Kimpel said the equip­ment is like "no other sys­tem that we have seen anywhere" and will cost less than $400,000. 
Although the system will not eliminate all of the odor, probable elimination es-
see SMELL, page 6 
probably would not face charges stemming from either the break-in or car theft be­cause of the life sentences man­dated by a first-degree murder conviction. 
Lopez was arraigned Mon­day in 77th District Court in Big Rapids on two counts of passing bad checks, court clerk Evelyn Hampel said. Magistrate Gary Lough set bond at $50,000 and scheduled a preliminary ex­amination for Sept. 23, she said. 
Conviction on each of the 
see CHARGES, page 6 
In the second room, the pope took 2 month-old Brooke Johnson from her mother and held her briefly. Brooke weighed one pound, 5 ounces when she was born three months premature on June 29 and, according to her mother, Debby Johnson, now weighs 2 pounds, 10 ounces. 
When the pope inquired about the child's health, her mother responded, "She's doing very well. She's healthy." 
Issie "Lottie" Velasquez was the third child visited by the pope. She has been hospitalized since April when she was paralyzed from the neck down as the result of a traffic acci­dent. 
In the playroom, John Paul picked up a drawing by one child, examined it briefly, ex­claiming, "Oh, she's an artist. Yes, yes, she's an artist," then handed it to Phoenix Bishop Thomas J. O'Brien, who was at his side. He chatted with the other children and staff and ac­cepted a bouquet from a small child. 
Outside the hospital, he con­gratulated employees on their "beautiful work," calling it an "evangelical mission to heal the suffering and the sick. We 
see POPE, page 6 

Tuesday, September 15, 1987
page 2 The Observer 
' 

In Brief 
Violent behavior will be the topic for discussion Sept. 21-22 when some of the nation's top analysts convene in Indianapolis to participate in a conference to help public health officials prevent and cope with violence. The con­ference, titled "Violence: From Fear To Action," will be held at the Indiana University Lincoln Hotel and Confer­ence Center. Featured speakers will include: Dr. Mark Rosenberg of the Division of Injury Epidemiology and Control at the Centers for Disease Control, and Dr. Deborah Prothrow-Stith of Boston University Medical School. -Associated Press 

Of~ Interest 
Annihilate Michigan State --Let's wake up the echoes and decorate Notre Dame's buildings. Hang ban­
ners with "pro-IrisM>eat MSU" for Notre Dame's home opener on Saturday. Judging will include all those hung by Thursday morning, and best banner will likely be fea­tured in an Observer photo. The contest is being held by the Emerald Society. -The Observer 
Transamerica Life Company will give a presentation and reception at 6 p.m. tonight at the Senior Bar. All math majors are encouraged. Job opportunities in the field of actuarial science will be discussed. Please dress in a moderately formal attire. -The Observer 
The SMC International Business Club will be holding its first meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in 247 Haggar. All those interested are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
Anti-Apartheid Network presents "Generations of Resistance," a documentary film on the struggle against oppression in South Africa tonight at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Father David Burrell, professor of philsophy and theology at Notre Dame, will present a program on Jewish mystic Etty Hillesum today at noon in the Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall. The program is the first of four sponsored by the saint Mary's Center for Spirituality on "Women of Faith." Admission is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Kellogg Brown Bag Lunch Seminar features Manuel Antonio Garreton, a visiting professor at the Kel­logg Institute, speaking about "Popular Mobilization and Democratization in Chile" at noon in 131 Decio. -The Ob­server 
Spanish speakinJ! bi-lingual couples or individuals are needed to help witli the promotion of Natural Family Planning with the local hispanic population. Volunteers are requested, but a stipend is negotiable. Call237-7401 or 288-2662 for more information. -The Observer 
Interviews for the 1988 Legislative Internship Program will be held by the Indiana Senate Democratic Caucus on October 5-9 and 13-16 at the State Senate in Indianapolis. Interested students should contact Laura Bauman at (317) 232-9506 for information and to arrange an interview. The internship runs from early January until March 15, 1988. Any undergraduate or graduate student in good standing, regardless of major, may apply. -The Observer 
Do you like food? Need a resume filler? Representatives fro~ each dor~ are needed to serve on the campus Food Advisory Council. Ifyou're a fun person and are interested in getting involved, call Maureen McDonnell at 2992.-The 
Obser:ver 


Design Editor .............. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Tim Brennan Design Assistant ................ Jodi Topel Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbren­Layout Staff... .. .. .. .. . Annette Rowland ner Typesetters ............ Becky Gunderman Accent Copy Editor ........... Lisa Young ........................................ Daniel Cahill Accent Layout............. Ann Biddlecom News Editor .................... Regis Coccia Typists.................... .. .. .. .. . Lynn Ewing Copy Editor ................... Matt Crowley .................................... Jennifer Conlon Sports Copy Editor ............ Pete Gegen ND Day Editor ................... David Lee ................................... Steve Megargee Photographer................ Suzanne Poch 
Tile Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S:Z.S per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Allodated Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

In romance at college, 'Nice Guys' finish last 
"Thank you for the flowers," she called on Friday to say. "Ohhh, Mark. You're such a Goober." 
The woman of my dreams wasn't calling me a chocolate-covered peanut. Nor was she refer­ring to me as a character on the old "Andy Griffith Show." 
No, it was much worse than that. She was referring to me as a "Nice Guy." 
I knew my chances for her were over. As all Nice Guys know, when it comes to love and romance in college, Nice Guys finish last. 
There are exceptions, of course. But for the most part, college women don't want Nice Guys. 
Just who is a Nice Guy? It's not hard to tell. 
A Nice Guy doesn't get drunk on the weekends, dance on the pooltables at Bridgett's and throw up. No, a Nice Guy stays sober and drives the pooltable dancers home -with the women they picked up. 
Around Christmas time, a Nice Guy takes a woman shopping. She has him try on men's sweaters to see how they look. The sweaters aren't for him, though. They're for another guy --the guy she loves. 
A Nice Guy is a good listener, and he's un­derstanding. He'll sometimes talk to a woman until2 a.m. about her problems. 
Unfortunately for the Nice Guy, her problems usually have to do with another guy --the guy she loves. 
A Nice Guy makes a good brother. 
A Nice Guy has a woman pass out in his arms. He doesn't take advantage of her. He doesn't even consider it. 
A Nice Guy is "good friends" with a lot of women, as in "Oh, him? We're just good friends." 
A Nice Guy is the "old reliable" SYR date. If all else fails, a woman can always call a Nice Guy. She won't have the best time. But at least the Nice Guy is available. And he won't bite. 
A Nice Guy, in fact, is always around to do a favor. He'll carry a refrigerator, provide a ride to the mall, or pick up someone from the airport. He will never say no. He'll feel too guilty. 
A Nice Guy, in other words, resembles Charlie Brown. He's pleasant, agreeable, and selfless. And he's unsuccessful with the little red-haired girl. 

Mark Pankowski 
Managing Eciitor 
~ 
y 


So why aren't Nice Guys successful with wo­men in college? 
Perhaps it's because college is supposed to be fun and exciting, so women want fun and exciting men. Nice Guys aren't as exciting as. pooltable dancers. 
Or perhaps Nice Guys don't chase after Nice Girls, who probably have similar complaints about romance in college as Nice Guys. 
Or perhaps, as a Sept. 4 Chicago Tribune ar­ticle said, "being a Nice Guy brings one close to falling over the edge into wimpdom. Nice is safe. Nice is aimless, formless. 
"If Nice Guys were food on the table of life, they'd be soft, crunchless and malleable. 
"Today, when the question is asked, 'What's so nice about being a Nice Guy?' the answer is, 'Not much."' 
So is there hope for Nice Guys? 
Fortunately, there is. Word has it that after college, Nice Guys do pretty well in the romance department. In fact, Nice Guys are in demand. 
For now, however, most collegiate Nice Guys will have to remain pleasant, understanding, selfless --and alone. 
Given the choice, I'd rather be a chocolate­covered peanut. 

SObering Advice} \ 



can savealifei'.cr1 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive .~~-· 
College of Engineers 
presents Arthur Andersen and Company Technical Services Organization "Careers for Engineers in Management & INFORMATION consulting" 
Date: Tuesday, September 15 Time: 4:00 PM Place: 258 FITZPATRICK HALL OF ENGINEERING 
Refreshments served following presentation 
,.....-----~---------------~------------­
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
The Observer page 3 


Reagan: Missile agreement, summit unlikely 
Associated Press range forces, known as INF. 
He said the proposed treaty 
WASHINGTON-President contained the toughest-ever Reagan said Monday the super­measures against cheating -a powers still face "difficult is­fact the administration cited in sues" before reaching an arms minimizing chances for an im­agreement, and the White minent announcement on a House cautioned it was unlikely missile accord or superpower a missile accord or summit summit. date would result from talks It calls for elimination of all with Soviet Foreign Minister medium-range nuclear mis­Eduard Shevardnadze this siles, with a range of about 600 week. to 3,000 miles, within three 
On the eve of Shevardnadze's years, and abolishing shorter­visit to the White House, range missiles, with a range of Reagan instructed U.S. about 300 to 600 miles, within negotiators to present a new one year. draft treaty on intermediate The Soviets have proposed a 

Senate hears SUB ticket discrepancy 
By GREG LUCAS Brian Holst, student senator, Senior Staff Reporter said he felt that too much em­phasis was being placed on 
Janel Blount, Student Union Hering's role in the incident. Board director, told the Stu­"The responsibility for what dent Senate Monday night that happened shouldn't fall just on a total of 38 tickets were Jim (Hering), when clearly the preferentially reserved for incident resulted as a break­board members and friends of down of the SUB manage­board members for the Mic­ment," Holst said. higan game. A big distinction has to be 
Jim Hering, SUS services drawn in policy between SUB commissioner, was able to sponsored events and special retrieve all but a few of the tick­events, such as ticket distribu­ets that he had reserved for tion for away games with friends and most of the tickets respect to preferential treat­that had been reserved for ment of board members, said board members were never Bink. picked up, said Tim Salmon, SUB steering committee The SUB steering committee spokesman. will meet this week to iron out 
The recovered tickets were a new ticket policy to eliminate re-sold last Friday on a first any future problems, Blount come, first serve basis, said said, adding that the new policy Salmon. Students who had will be brought before the Sen­received preferential treat­ate next week. ment were not allowed to pur­In other business, Senate chase tickets in the redistribu­members formed subcommit­tion, Blount added. tees to study and create 
Blount was questioned by proposals on a list of Senate other Senate members about priorities. the discrepancy between the originally quoted figure of 20 The list of issues to be ex­preferentially reserved tickets amined -includes space and and the new figure of 38. facilities alloted for non­
"There was a lack of infor­varsity athletics, many issues mation at the start. I don't want of student parking, revision of to say deception" said Blount. du Lac's definition of student Laurie Bink, student body government, proposal for plus vice president, said of Hering's as well as minus grades, in­involvement: ''I think creased student input in admin­(Hering) knew he was wrong istrative decisions and im­and I think he tried to minimize provement of academic 
his wrong." ~dvising for upperclassmen. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
STRATFORD SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL 
"A Weekend in Canada... A Change of Scene" (October 9-11, 1987) 
Chartered buses leave Notre Dame Campus at 7:00a.m., October 9 and return 
TRAVEL: 
at 6:00p.m. on  October I I.  
TilE PLAYS:  CABARET  & w p.m.  Oct. 9  
OTHELLO  2:00p.m.  Oct. 10  
MUCH ADO  8:00p.m.  Oct. 10  

ABOUT NOTHING 
ACCOMMODATIONS: Bed and Breakfast (Accommodations= two evening> and two breakfasts) 
PARTIES AND MEETINGS WITH ACTORS FOLLOWING ALL PERFORMANCES!!! 
$150: Includes Hound Trip Transportation, l!.:xcellent Tickets To All :'t rformances. Bed and Breakfast, Private Backstage Tours of the 
Festival Theatre! 
COST: 
PAYMENT IN FULL REQUIRED TO GUARANTEE YOUR 
RESER\'ATION SIGN-UP IN ROOM 3381.156 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. FOR MOFlE INFORMATION CALL 239-5398 OR CONTACT PROFESSOR RATHBURN AT 239-5069. 
IFIRST COME FIRST SI':RVF.iJJ 
timetable of five years for dis­State George Shultz that could Room and then meet with him mantling medium-range weap­be crucial to the fate of an INF over lunch. ons and one-year for shorter­agreement. Shevardnadze and Shultz range missiles. Shultz and Shevardnadze will then will go back to the State 
begin with three hours of talks Department for more talks, 
"With these new actions at the State Department Tues­and confer again Wednesday taken by the United States, it day and then go to the White and Thursday. The discussions is now up to the Soviet Union House. may be extended to next week to demonstrate whether or not when both attend the special it truly wants to conclude a There, they will sign a previ­U.N. General Assembly ses­treaty eliminating this class of ously negotiated agreement to sion in New York. missiles," Reagan said in a set up "nuclear risk reduction In a statement announcing speech to the National Alliance centers" in Moscow and Wash­the treaty draft, Reagan said of Business. ington to lower the chance of the superpowers "have come a 
Reagan's speech and the new accidental war. long way" toward an agree­treaty draft set the stage for Accompanied by Shultz, ment and that a "historic three days of meetings between Reagan will confer with agreement. . . is now within Shevardnadze and Secretary of Shevardnadze in the Cabinet reach. 

It's a kind of magic 
A magician displays his skills at LaFortune with help from a student yesterday. 

Space station plan risky, report says 
Associated Press The study said the space report, would pose about a 60 agency's plans to build a space percent probability of the loss 
WASHINGTON -NASA's station by the mid-1990s "rank of another orbiter. It said the plan to build a space station as the most ambitious and National Aeronautics and with the shuttle will be difficult lengthy task NASA has ever un­Space Administration should and risky, and could lead to the dertaken," and that to be suc­prepare for that loss by plan­loss of still another space cessful it cannot be constructed ning to build still another shuttle orbiter, a National Re­"on the cheap." reusuable spacecraft. search Council committee said Using the space shuttle to "We should expect to lose an in a report released Monday. build the station, said the orbiter -not necessarily with 
llllllllll llf'lllllllllllllllllniiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIMIINIIIIIIInlllllllllllllftHUIIHftiiiiiiRI...HI
.. 
accompanying loss of life ­about once every five to eight

··' 
years," said the report.
.l.i:\ IRELA.ND 
In a reply to the report, NASA disagreed that use of the
~PROGRAM 
shuttle to build the station would be risky. NASA said it has recently redesigned the
Information Sessions 
................__................."...................." ... 
deployment plan for the space station and has "a high degree 
.ND.. SMC 
of confidence that the space
·-­
station can be successfully Tuesday, Sept. 15 Wednesday, Sept.16 
deployed with the current shuttle system." 

! 7 pm 7pm 
The report, the result of a

5 Montgomery Theatre 304 Haggar 
four-month study commis­\ 1st floor LaFortune 
sioned by the White House, the National Security Council and NASA, generally supported


WELCOME 
NASA's current space station-·-·""'"'______ design plan. 
L.....,"~"~~•~•~_?. N E 
-----~ 
~---~----~-­
----------.--­
Tuesday, September 15, 1987
The Observer
a e 4 
'1\t J.P. Morgan~ systems professionals are part business person~ , theoretician~ and technician:~ 




As a leading global financial institution~J.P. Morgan is among the most sophisticated users of the most advanced information and communications sys­tems. And as a firm at the forefront of a rapidly changing industry~ we are continuously involved in the design and implementation of innovative systems for complex worldwide financial applica­tions. Hyour goal is a career in systems~ J.P. Morgan has rewarding opportunities to offer both techni­cal and non-technical majors.They begin with comprehensive classroom and on-the-job instruc­
tion and lead to a choice of  
optiOnS ranging from technical  Information Presentation  
specializations to management.  
Hyou~d like to know more about  
J.P. Morgan~ please meet with us  
at the time and place indicated.  
Monday, September 28  
6:00-8:00 PM  
Morris Inn  
Notre Dame Room  




JPMorgan 
----~~------~--l 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 

The Observer page 5 

Student-alumnae tailgater to highlight weekend events 
the annual Saint Mary's FallBy MIMI TUOHY Fest will begin on Wednesday,
Staff Writer A student-alumnae tailgater 

Sept. 30. will highlight the scheduled 
That night's events will all events of the annual Saint 
take place at Haggar. Included Mary's Alumnae Board is a movie in the parlor, musi­weekend at Saint Mary's Col­cal entertainment by John Ken­lege, Smith Hashagen, vice nedy in the Chameleon Room . 
president of Student Affairs, 

and The Hit Man on the ter­told the programming board at 
race. a meeting Monday night. 

"This weekend the Saint The bookstore will also be Mary's Alumnae Board will be open for a "midnight mad­on campus attending various ness" sale. There will be an ad­
meetings and receptions," mission price of one dollar. Hashagen said. The sched­uled events will begin "We want to set the tone to Thursday night with a recep­give everybody a taste'of Saint tion in Riedinger House for the Mary's and what is planned for Alumnae Board and Student this year. All of these events Government members. The that are scheduled will be of­Alumnae Board will attend fered separately later.'' Cahill meetings on Friday before the explained. Saturday tailgater on Haggar The annual Fall Fest beer Terrace from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. gardens will take place on 
Thursday, October 1st, at Saint 
"We <the student govern­Mary's. Cahill hopes that all ment) hope that the Alumnae students of legal drinking age Board members enjoy them­will attend. selves and feel at home again Julie Wagner, Freshman at Saint Mary's. The tailgater Class Adviser, announced that is a great way for the students elections for the Freshman to meet the alumnae on campus class will be held on September and we are looking forward to 29th. a great turnout," Hashagen Any students interested in said. entering on a ticket for 
PresidenWice-President must 
In other business, Tradi­attend a mandatory meeting tional Events Commissioner tonight or tomorrow night in Mary Carol Cahill announced Haggar. 
ATTENTION SENIORS: 
THE LOCATION FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS HAS BEEN CHANGED =ro THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM-­1ST FLOOR LA FORTUNE. 
If you missed signups see the secretary at the information desk outside of the New Orleans Room between 12:00 & 8:00 pm. 

J 

By GINA CAMARENA day, Sept. 21, and an organiza­For the first issue, arms News Staff tional meeting will be held the negotiations, students will meet with the chief counsel for 
For students interested in following night at 6:30 p.m. in the Arms Control Disarma­politics, the Washington Semi­the esc. ment Agency, staff of the Rus­nars scheduled for the fall and The approximate cost is $200 sian Embassy, and one or two spring breaks provide a chance which includes transportation Congressional leaders involved to discuss arms negotiations, and housing. with the arms negotiations, welfare reform and meet with Newton said. the staff of the Soviet embassy. The first of the two Seminars The second issue, welfare 
The seminars, sponsored by is during fall break from Oct. reform, will possibly present the Center for Social Concerns, 17 to Oct. 23, and the second speakers such as Sen. will give students a chance to will be held the week of spring Moynihan and Rep. Downy, as discuss political issues and "to break. Students who travel to well as other congressionalreflect on dimensions from Washington will have the op­leaders. A speaker from the (their) own faith," said Project portunity to meet with top po­U.S. Bishop's Conference is Coordinator Steve Newton. litical and religious leaders as also a possibility said Newton. Application deadline is Mon-well as tour the city. Newton is hoping the stu­
dents will have "more access to congressmen'' since this is

College· of Business 
an election year. Students from the early pri­

Meet the firms Night 
mary states are especially en­couraged to participate so they 
can meet with their local poli­tical figures.

Tuesday, September 15 
The meeting with the staff of the Soviet Embassy is also a 

6:45 pm -10:00 pm 
major aspect of the Seminars because it will give students a 

Representatives from: firsthand Soviet perspective on IC Industries the arms negotiations. For the Coopers &Lybrand Learn about Soviets it is "a change in tbeir Peat Marwick openness," said Newton. Deloitle, Haskins & Sells The week spent in Washing-Price Waterhouse exciting career ton will include a schedule of 
Monogram Room 
Crowe. Chizek & Co. 
General Mills {!;( two meetings per day, a one McOiaddren, Hendrickson & Pullen hour reflection period and free Prudential Bache internship time to sightsee and enjoy the Seidman & Seidman city. Baxter opportunities Newton explained the Arthur Young meetings are not simply "pas­~~~~~e~g;;~on sponsored by: sive learning--but ongoing t:rnst & Whlnney dialogue" which will enhance 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii&iioiithiiiiiie~iisiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiieiitaiiiiiiiAiiliipiihiiaiiiiiiPiisiiiiiiiiil&l the seriousness of ideas by po­
• litical interaction. 


page 6 The Observer 
Swimming in the stuff 

The Observeii'Suzanne Poch A student prepares to enjoy a portion of the swim· yesterday at the LaFortune Open House. mlng pool supply of Ice cream being dished out 
from the state police post at Lakeview. The checks later
Charges 

were determined to have been continued from page 1 stolen from a car near the 
Beauchamps' home about the felony counts in punishable by time the couple was slain, he up to 14 years in prison, Ham­said. pel said. 
Lopez remained held Mon­The store owner obtained the day afternoon in the Mecosta car's license number, and state County Jail, sheriff's dis­police determined that it was patcher Donna Biller said. the stolen Beauchamp vehicle, 
Powers said. 
Lopez on Thursday allegedly Police would not provide cashed two checks at a grocery details about how investigators store in Morley in Mecosta tracked the suspects to the 
County, Lt. Tom Powers said rural cabin. 
been addressing the issue ever since.
Smell 

Until the present, there has continued from page 1 not been a system applicable 
to the problem said Kimpel. timates range from 75 to 85 per­However, he said that the com­cent. pany has found a system that 
The odor given off by the will work in the environment. plant is a common character­"There have been no legal istic of any corn refinery plant, actions taken against the com­Kimpel said. He said that pany, only a citizens group with across the U.S. ethanol is being a legal action tending, but noth­produced giving off the same ing has been done for a year. odor and that "to the best of They are still in the discovery our knowledge there have been stage, where the plant and the no complaints in addressing group are questioning each the odor problem." other," said Kimpel. 
Kimpel said that the plant Kimpel said,"If the condi­has been receiving complaints tions are exactly right, the odor since 1984, when the company is present 20-30 miles from the first started and that they have plant." 
SUNNY Welcomes 

TICKETS: 515.50 ON SALE J.A.C.C. Box Office, SEARS (UP Mall, Elkhart); ST. JOE BANK (Main Office); NIGHTWINDS (No. Village Mall, Niles); ELKHART TRUTH; SUPER SOUNDS (Elk­hart); J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte); MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). CHARGE By Phone (219) 239-7356 

Pope 
continued from page 1 
know that Jesus Christ was es­pecially near to all the suffer­ing and the sick." 
In his greeting to the people of Phoenix from the balcony of St. Mary's Basilica, the pope said Arizona and the United States had been "richly blessed. As you look with grat­itude upon the high standard of living that many of you enjoy, at least in comparison to the rest of the world, may your hearts go out to the less for­tunate." 
Then, in a speech before the Catholic Health Association, the 67-year-old pontiff spoke of "the great evil of abortion and euthanasia." 
He also referred to the church's stated opposition to the use of bioemedical technol­ogy to achieve artificial fer­tilization -nopposition which has drawn strong criticism from some health care profes­sionals and from couples who have been unable to conceive. 
The church has not taken its 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
stand, the pope said, "in order to discourage scientific prog­ress or to judge harshly those who seek to extend the frontiers of human knowledge and skill, but in order to affirm the moral truths which must guide the ap­plication of this knowledge and skill. 
"The Church encourages genuine advances in knowl­edge," he said, "but she also insists on the sacredness of human life at every stage and in every condition. The cause she serves is the cause of human life and human dig­nity." 
The pope called on health care workers to show "the love and compassion of Christ and his church" in treating patients with AIDS. 
"As you courageously affirm and implement your moral ob­ligation and social responsibil­ity to help those who suffer, you are, individually and collec­tively, living out the parable of the Good Samaritan," he added. 
Phoenix was the fifth of the nine cities on the pope's agenda during his 10-day swing through the United States. 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
It's casual 

Rob Labadie walts outside the New Orleans Room In LaFortune before posing for his senior portrait. 
ND PRE PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY IT S 1ST MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 16 Roum127 
Nieuwland Science 7:00PM 
The Observer page 7 
'Franglais' gets into French dictionary via Wall Street 
There are usually about 100 new entries, including names, words, expressions and meanings. This year's 77,000 entries include 129 new contri­butions, Ouvrard said. 
"The difficulty is in trying not to make mistakes, taking only words that are in style now," she said. "We try not to take words that are too a la mode," because they will soon disappear. 
Many new words this year are of a technical nature. 
Among them: "seropositif," or seropositive, most com­monly used to denote a positive test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and "procreatique," referring to the study of artifical procrea­tion. 
"Raider" and "finaliser" (to make final) are among this year's new English words or derivatives. They join such standards as "OK" and "weekend." 
Among the words rejected was the American term "zap­ping," to describe switching from TV channel to channel, es­pecially during commercials. 
"IGF," the French tax on large fortunes that was done away with after the conserva­tives came to power last year, is gone from this year's Petit Larousse, joining "scoubidou" in the trash heap of outmoded verbiage. 
Each year, an editorial com­mittee studies lists of potential new words offered by about 20 people who are assigned to fol­low various sectors of society. 


Associated Press 
PARIS-Straight from Wall Street, "raider" has elbowed its way into the 1988 edition of Petit Larousse, a French dic­tionary that acts as a mirror of contemporary life and lan­guage. 
No arbiter of perfect French, Petit Larousse documents the rise and fall of personalities and words. Less weighty than the more staid Petit Robert die, tionary, it is perused for the peculiarities of the past year. 
The just-published edition in­cludes 73 new words, 20 new meanings to words, nine new expressions and 27 new proper nouns, including Philippine President Corazon Aquino, ten­nis star Ivan Lendl, and Cher­nobyl, site of the world's worst commercial nuclear accident. 
Some have compared the ar­rival of the Petit Larousse to the annual uncorking of the nouveau Beaujolais. 
But language purists might consider Petit Larousse "ralant," a homegrown word meaning bothersome and a new entry in this year's edition, 
WANTED 

right next to "raider," defined 
as one who takes over another person's company. 
USC vs. NO 

FOOTBALL TICKETS 
With its healthy dose of En­
21.3422-2812 

glish entries, Petit Larousse 
EARLY AM OR EVENINGS 
could never be called ''franco­francais," defined as that which is exclusively French. 
"It was a good year," editor Christine Ouvrard said in a 
BUY 
OBSERVER 

telephone interview. "Because 
last year we had only 48 new words and this year 73." 
CLASSIFIEDS 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
NEEDS 
NEED$ A For FEW FALL BREAK? 
AMBITIOUS STUDENTS 

POSITIONS AVAILABLE Waiters Waitresses Bartenders 
NEED$ 

Attendants to go Casual Employment Catering Positions
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 

Apply to: 
NEED$ 

Dolores -North Dining
to see the 

Hall (6176)
Please bring your Social
MIAMI-N.D. GAME 

Security Card and Jean South Dining
Nov. 28in 

Current lfall (6147)
Florida? 

Student I.D. Card when Paula Catering applying Services (7859) 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 

Concern for students key to policy 
I am writing in response to your Sep­tember 10 article regarding the drunk driving policy approved by the Office of Student Affairs. As the only student member of the committee who did not graduate last year, I wanted to clarify the questions you raised regarding the effectiveness of the policy. I would like to emphasize at the beginning that I am speaking of my own opinion and that my views are not necessarily those of the committee or of the administration. 

David Kinkopf 
guest column 
I am very proud of this policy, not only in its final results, but also in the stated purpose of the ad hoc committee and in the method the committee used in formulating the policy. The problems which The Observer sees in the policy are understandable and well thought out. However, these problems arise from a lack of understanding regarding the purpose of the committee and a cynicism regarding its method. The Ob­server's main point, I believe, is that the committee is at fault for only recommending sanctions which will go to into effect after a DUI offense, which does nothing to solve the problem. The Observer ends its editorial by condemn­ing the policy, saying: "In essence the University's policy deals with drunk driving after it occurs, rather than dealing with the problem when it should -before it occurs." The Observer is ab­solutely correct in this observation. The · issue of drunk driving must be dealt with, whenever and however possible, before it occurs. However, it would be incorrect to maintain that the Univer­sity should not have a policy directing the administration when cases of DUI do in fact occur; for, as The Observer itself states: "Despite last year's tragedies, students continue to drink and drive." Therefore, one must under­stand the purpose of the policy and take it for what it is. It is not an end all to the University's drinking, or even its drinking and driving, problems. The stated purpose of the committee was "to recommend a policy, including sanctions, to be implememted in cases of DUI involving Notre Dame stu­dents." Plain and simple. Our charge was to give the administration guidelines to act consistently, fairly 
Doonesbu 

and correctly with students involved in DUI incidents. This is because, as the committee report states: "the absence of a policy to guide University officials in these situations risked arbitrary and ad hoc decision-making which in the long run could ill-serve both the Notre Dame community and the students for whom those decisions would be made." We were not, as The Observer editorial falsely claims: "formed to discourage students from driving under the influ­ence of alcohol." 
I hope this clears up two of The Ob­server's three reasons for the "failure" of the policy: that "the committee's recommended action is presented in a negative way," and that "the commit­tee has failed to offer positive ways to prevent students from drinking and driving." This is certainly not meant to excuse the University from its re­sponsibility to attempt to prevent DUI incidents. And although education for the responsible use of alcohol was beyond the policy-making scope of the committee, the committee makes itself quite clear. ''A consensus, however, did arise that the University has not imple­mented fully the recommendations con­tained in the report, ('the alcohol policy'), especially those dealing with education." Here, as an interested and fairly-informed student, I must con­demn the administration's failure to in­itiate and ensure effective educational programs on the responsible use of al­cohol. The administration has spent a disproportionate amount of effort and resources in monitoring student com­pliance to the alcohol policy while failing to live up to its own end of the policy, which includes establishing an office on alcohol education. 
The Observer's third objection allows me to discuss the policy itself briefly. The Observer claims: "the sanctions that imposed against a student for drinking and driving 'off campus' are a form of double jeopardy." I must ad­mit that while on the committee, I learned a lot about the administration's vision of "community." The adminis­tration's commitment to the realization of a better community is very serious indeed and includes protecting its members from others and from them­selves, as well as forming statements on important issues to those outside our community. The Observer, and many students, I think, believe "the Univer­sity should only punish students for 
drinking and driving on campus." The University, rightly, feels concern for the members of its community, wher­ever they are. Whether he is on or off campus, the drunk driver risks death, injury or arrest to himself, and death or injury to others : passengers and pedestrians, students and South Bend residents. Whether on or off campus, the Notre Dame student or employee and the South Bend resident has the right to be protected from a drunk driver. The punishments outlined in the policy, especially for first offenders are very, very minor, and, for the most part, punishment is left to the proper criminal authorities. The sanctions ex­ist to ensure that the student receives adequate attention from the Univer­sity, that the student realizes the gravity of his offense, that the Notre Dame community stands up for its commitment to the responsible use of alcohol and respect for others and, as stated before, to give a clear outline of procedure to follow by the administra­tion. But maybe the strongest argu­ment for punishing off campus of­fenders is that Notre Dame is a part of the larger South Bend community. We, as students, are guests here. We do not share the concerns that permanent residents of South Bend, including non­student members of the Notre Dame community, have for their city and its residents. When we do damage to the South Bend community by drinking and driving, it is necessary for the Notre Dame administration to respond in an appropriate way. Notre Dame, as an institution and permanent part of the South Bend community, cannot leave the problem of Notre Dame drunk drivers solely to the authorities of South Bend, but rather must work together 
in an effort to stop this problem. 
I was frankly offended by The Obser­ver's claim that "counseling becomes a way to punish students rather than a way to help them." The committee states explicitly: "in addition to any sanctions recommended in this policy, the committee unanimously urges the Notre Dame community to respond with all its resources to provide espe­cial pastoral care and support..." I learned a great deal about the admin­istration's concern for each student; al­though we do not always see it, this University cares. 
One final point, if I may. The Obser­ver uses the term "administration's so­lution." This is not true. There were only two administrators on the commit­tee compared to four students, giving the students the largest representation on the committee. Also, by far, the larg­est number of people interviewed were students and Hall Staff members. If anything, this is the "student's solu­tion." So I must commend the univer­sity for its bold and very productive decision to be as representative as pos­sible in making this policy. The com­mittee and, I hope, the entire adminis­tration see "the many benefits which accrue from collaborative efforts in­volving all our constituents ... " 
In conclusion, my primary purpose in writing this is to clarify some mis­givings regarding the policy. At the same time, this is a challenge to the administration to continue its fruitful use of students in policy formation and to fulfill its promises in the alcohol policy concerning alcohol education. It is also a challenge to the students and The Observer editorial staff to read the entire policy, especially the introduc­tory letter by the committee. Only then can you come to an intelligent conclu­sion about the policy and know your rights and responsibilities. 
David Kinkopf is a member of the Stu­dent Affairs Ad Hoc Committee. 

Over 300 letters to the edit or and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 
46556 

Garry Trudeau 
HAVe YIX' 8I?£N FOUOW­
ING OONALJJ 1RJJMPS POLJTIC4L AI?$ IN 7HE 
Fr/PeRS~ 

fJH-HfJH. 5TATlJRE ENHANCIAG, He's ear us 
ARENT THetr ANOONl-Y TAlKING ABOUT 
RV& MON71-15 70 7Hf3 PRI­IT, RJGHP MARlcS! IAJI{AT'S THIS 
tuUK'S OF-
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression o! varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Quote of the Day 

"Life is like an onion-you peel off one layer at a time, and sometimes you weep." 
Carl Sandburg 
General Board 

Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................... Michael Nau!lhton Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele 
Photo Editor .............................................Jim Gar roll 
Founded November3, 1968 
Business Manager .................... ...... Bnan P. Murray Advertising Design Manager.......... David Culligan Advertising Manager ......... ......... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton 
-

Accent 
page 9

Tuesday, September 15, 1987 

Childhood center isn't just 'kid stuff 
T
LISA COLEMAN offer all eligible families an families and 7 percent from Identify the stage the child is In offer words of praise for ECDC. accent writer opportunity to enroll their Holy Cross Junior College and and encourage self-confidence." "They provide an excellent child. Children of Notre Dame St. Joeseph Medical Center Throughout the day the child preschool foundation," says he Early Childhood Devel­and Saint Mary's administra­families. Morning. afternoon or takes part in a variety of activi­Stoddart. "as well as fostering opment Center (ECDC) on tion, faculty, staff and students full-day sessions are available ties that are geared towards self-concept and self-esteem." the Saint Mary's campus Is not have first priority. In addition, to meet the needs of the par­complete development. Field By funding the Early Child­just a day care center. It Is a families from Holy Cross Junior ents. trips, outdoor playtime and hood Development Center, center for child growth and College and St. Joseph Medical "show-n-tell" are only a few of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's development funded by Notre Center participate in the Why is this program so the ways the students learn offer the community an alterna Dame and Saint Mary's. drawing. popular? According to director about themselves and others. live to day care or babysitting. 
Due to the program's Of the 135 students currently Terri Kosik, it Is the center's Both the teachers and the In addition to offering their popularity and the limited enrolled, 76 percent come educational philosophy which teaching techniques provide students a Teachers Assistants spaces available, the ECDC from Notre Dame families, 18 "not only seeks to accelerate the children with a unique, Program. During the school conducts a lottery In order to percent from Saint Mary's the child's development, but to well-balanced environment in year students taking Saint 
which to grow. The ECDC Mary's education or develop­budget gives the teachers the mental psychology courses par chance to use the most recent ticipate In the ECDC clas­techniques of psychology, edu­srooms gaining "hands on" cation and sociology to in­experience for their classes and tegrate art, music and drama offer the children a greater into the educational process. support system. 
"The children are so well be· 

Teachers employ the dis­haved," said Lisa Cellini, a cipline theories of Psychiatrist Saint Mary's sophomore. "It's Rudolf Driekus. These theories an experience you can't get discourage using punishment. from the book." According to rewards and threats In order to Debbie Neiman, also a sopho­discipline. Instead the child is more, "When you watch the taught to take responsibility for children you really understand his or her actions. In this way what cognitive development Is each student has the choice of all about." behaving or accepting the logi­The Early Childhood Develop­cal consequences If he or she ment Center Is truly a golden misbehaves. By encouraging opportunity for the children. the child to be independent The privately funded center has and using discipline as a learn­the best available techniques ing situation, the teachers in­and teachers and the outside still the students with "4R's": assistance of the Saint Mary's I Respect. Responsibility, Notre Dame students. With Resourcefulness and Respon­such an enriching environment siveness. the children acquire the self­
Cathy White of Saint Mary's reads to Erlc Albert (left) and Mark Trembath (center) as part of her Development Parents, such as Saint Mary's confidence they need to meet Psychology Course at the Early ChDdhood Development Center. Professor Rebecca Stoddart, the challenge of the future. 
0 
brings 'Laundry' to ND 
~AN FRANCISCO 

T
THERESA LOOMIS entitled "Laundry Cycle: The accent writer Long and the Shorts" for their Notre Dame appearance. The he Notre Dame community show features collaborations will have the opportunity to on the score with The Bobs, an experience modern dance at Its a capella vocal group, and best on September 16th when choreography by Brenda Way. the Oberlin Dance Collective I This year, Way received an San Francisco performs In Isadora Duncan Award as Best Washington Hall. The company Choreographer for work done has had a continuing record of In 1986. Also this year, The successful productions in cities Choreographers Committee of across the country Including Dance USA elected Way head of New York. Chicago, Boston and their national organization of Los Angeles. American dance. 
ODC productions have been Nick Rossi, cultural arts chair­highly praised. According to man of the Student Union The New York Times, "The Board, also speaks favorably of company combines Impressive ODC I San Francisco. "We technique and vivid stage pres­picked ODC to come to ND be­ence." As a result of this abil­cause It's a well-known, Ity, ODC has become exten­talented company, and, as sively known on the West Coast dance companies go, they and Is enjoying growing aren't too large. Further-popularity In the Midwest. more, the group can gear Itself 
The company was founded In especially to suit an audience 197 I at Oberlin College In that Isn't very familiar with Ohio by Brenda Way, who was modern dance." then teaching modern dance. Comments Rossi, "It has In 1976 the company relocated been my experience that most to San Francisco. With hard students have not had much work and enthusiasm the exposure to modern dance. group converted an old ware­ODC gives a brief description house for necessary perfor­before each performance." mance space, established a Wednesday night's Oberlin 
... school and producing program Dance Collective I San Fran­and published an arts maga­cisco performance will begin at zine. Following the move, the 8 p.m. Tickets can be pur­company changed Its name to chased at the Washington Hall ODC I San Francisco to reflect box office between noon and 6 Its permanent base and con­p.m. They are $4 for NDISMC 
-
tributed to the rebirth of the students and $8 for general Bay Area as an Important admission purchasers. For theater district. more information or advanced 
ODC /San Francisco will be ticket reservations call 239­performing a humorous work 7757. 
-



page 10 The Observer
-
Shea 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame with 15 kills, in­cluding the final two kills of the pivotal third game, while soph­omore Kathy Cunningham registered 13 digs, 11 kills and a career-high five service aces. 
The Irish next play at Loyola Wednesday night, then head to the Eastern Kentucky Invita­tiona! over the weekend. 

SIDE-OUTS -Zanette Ben­nett was named the North Star Conference Player of the Week for the week ending September 6 ... Junior Mary Kay Waller is still out of action after twist­ing her ankle in practice last week . . . The Irish defeated Michigan last Thursday in a quick three-game sweep, 15-3, 15-3, 15-6. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

and fifth runners) on Saturday was very good," Piane said. "If Garrett stays up with O'Connor and Markezich, that cuts our gap to 41 seconds, which would be excellent." 
Rounding out Notre Dame's top five was highly-touted freshman Pat Kearns, who finished fourth with a time of 26:46. 
The Irish have a week and a half before they return to ac­tion on Sept. 25, when they host the National Catholic Invita­tional. 
"The National Catholic meet will also be a test, and I can't say that we are ready for that one yet," Piane said. "Our ef-
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 

fort this weekend was excellent for this point in the season. However we don't want to be at that same level in two weeks. We want to get better, and that will mean more hard work." 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 
'.SOCIETY'~ 

Tilea...-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Centa", ecc:epta classified adwrtlslng from 10 am_ untll4 p.m., Monday ttvougt1 Friday. Tile a...-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday'. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five a-acters per day. 
NOTICES  AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­ Rich Uncle will pay top dollar for four Navy GA's between the thirty yard lines. Call Clare 284-4104 or 312-750-4981.  I need tixs lor Navy and Penn St. GAs or student. Will pay XXXtra. Cal Marla, alter 5: 272·2883.  Give me a B. Give me an E. Give me aT.  HEAW METAL RETURNS TO WVFJ METAL MAYHEM SUNDAYS 7-9  
DAYS.  Give me an H.  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949: H: 2n-S131. MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 2n-1051 DAY; 2n-2724 EVE. .  I NEED BC TIX. ALOT. THEY'VE ALREADY BOUGHT PLANE TIX. Please call Jim at 271-0763. Responsible part-time help wanted. Flexible hours. 232-9918.  NEED A RIDE TO MICH GAME? CALL 4579 NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872  AND SHE'S COMING TO THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME WITH DAD SO, I NEED TWO GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE lalao need BOSTON COLLEGE GA'e and Student tlx II you want caeh for your ex1r.., cell Steve at 232-9818 I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET  What does that spell? Someone we're supposed to be nice to this week. Don 'I ask why. Just doff.  MAY WE HAVE YOUR ATTENTION PLEASE 20 YEARS AGO TODAY THE COURSE OF HISTORY WAS CHANGED! A GIRL NAMED STAYPUFT CAME INTO THIS WORLD. (a.k.a. CAROLYN AYL· WARD)WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 MY CHICK is In Pittsburgh and needs a ride too her alma mater (ND) for the ND -Mich ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out lor the game who could give her a ride from the Pij­tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239-5303 any time of the day or night. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  Potter needs assistant. Prefer applicant with one clay course and or a strong interest. 20 hours a week, flexible to lit your schedule. Start at $3.75. Call 2n­1341 Responsible individuals needed for gen­eral theatre work. Apply M-T-W from 2-4 pm., University Park Mall Cinema. Equal Opportunity Employer. Anyone going home to Indy or Cincinnati the weekend of Sept. 25? I live In SE Indiana and need a ride. Willing to share gas money. Call Melisse at 2750.  I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL JENNY 284-4154 CHIEF NEED 2 MSU GA'S CALL EXT. 1609. AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 STUD. TIX AND 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. GAME PLEASE CALL X1275. Will trade 2 MSU, BAMA or NAVY GAs  PLEASE CALL GINA-289-5808 Need any MSU stud tlxl I'll double your expense I Jim xl 584 DESPERATELY need a student ticket lor MICH ST. Will trade for any other game or pay $. Call Jenny at 2128. Will pay $30 lor 1 stud. ticket lor Mlch.St. Call Rob 272-6689 NOT GOING TO BE HERE FOR USC? PUT YOUR MIND AT EASE AND UNLOAD THAT TICKET NOWJ CALL DENISE £2494  ONCE IN A LIFETIME OPPORTUNITY: ND WOMEN: IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE MORRISSEY SYR WITH JOE CANDELA, GIVE DAVE A CALL AT £3558 TONIGHT! YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO PASS UP THIS CHANCE...AND I'M NOT KIDDING JANE, MY HONEYCAKE, YOUR WINDSONG STAYS ON MY MIND. MY NOSE LONGS FOR YOUR AROMA. YOUR CHESTNUT MANE AND BABY BLUE EYES BECKON ME. IF I COULD ONLY BE WrrH YOU ALWAYS.  SHE WOULD REVOLUTIONIZE TRAVEL VIA THE FAMILY TRUCKST ER. OUR LIFE HAS CHANGED BY HER PRESENCE. STOP BY THE FARLEY PENTHOUSE (ROOM 403) WITH A BAG OF MARSHMELLOWS (OR MOSHMELLOWS AS CAROLYN SO AFFECTIONATELY CALLS THEM) FOR THE BIRTHDAY GIRL. HAPPY BIRTHDAY STAYPUFT, WE LOVE YOUIll THE REST OF THE UN FORGET ABLES: BONO, THERESA, AND SUBY TOP TEN REASONS FOR JOINING THE HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB (from our home office in Ann Arbor)  
Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7'days a week' 10:00 a.m.-5:30. Wijh, receive an extra 10% off on pur­chases of used paperbacks (In stock) at Pandora's Bookstore, located at 808 Howard Sl at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a week' 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. NHd one Mlch St etudent ticket. Cell Kevin et 238-5303 MUSTGETTO OHIO THIS WEEKEND.$$MIKEx2119 I LOST/FOUND I  I need Penn St. GA'a call Marty-1050 SWIM INSTRUCTORS -Volunteers needed to work w~h mentally handi­capped children and adults In Beginner Level swim classes. Classes on Saturday mornings and-br Wednesday evenings; Individual Instruction. Please call Bill Thomas -289-4831. FOR SALE 1978 Honda Wagon many new parts $850 or bast call 288-6240 alter 8 IBM POXT wijh 10 MEG hard disk, color mon~or, Quadboard Including builtin clock and DOS. Call Kelly at 239-5936 or 233-5284. Three-piece massive wood bedroom set. Queen size bad, tall dresser, vanity wijh large mirror. 1830's. $250. Call Kelly at 239-5937 or 233-5284.  lor 2 BC GAs. 239-8546 balore 5 WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321­8269 9-5 EST. URGENTLY NEED FOUR TIX FOR MIC­HIGANSTATEONSEPT. 19ANDFOUR TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME ON NOV. 14. ALUMNI GRANDFATHER WANTS THREE GRANDSONS TO SEE VIC­TORIES. CALL COLLECT JACK HOWE, 31 2-696-0810 EVENINGS ONLY. MSU Need two Michigan State GAs. Call Max at 283-1542 or 283-1 543. Go forth and Go lrishl Dear Student: Expecting a lot of homework lor the MSU weekend? I'll pay you UP TO $100 lor your 1 student or GA ticket. PLEASE CALL GUS AT x3841 or x3630 Help Mell Pleasell Need 1 Mlch St Stud  NEED 2 MSU TIXI KEVIN 271-0579 HELPIII In need of MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS Call FITZ $$$ ££££ 3758 Pieaaelll HELPI I NEED 1 BC STUD. TICKET­PLEASE CALL JULIE 3512. I NEED MICH.ST. GA'S 1741 MIKE I NEED FOUR TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE. THE FAMILY IS IN TOWN. 2 GA's AND 2 STUD OR 4 GA's. PAUL £2185. DESPERATELY .NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL PAUL 283-3431 I NEED MSU, PURDUE, & ALL HOME GAME GA'S. 272-8308 Will bast any offer on Mich. State student ticket. Call Christy 3829 I have 2 MSU GA'S on the 50 yard line  YOURS, DICK LOOK -You've seen all of these really stupid ada about needing MSU tix, how aomeone's pregnant mother and dying sister need 2 GA's or the student will ba cursed to hell. Seriously, folks, I need lots of tlx or I'm DEAD MEAT. Simple as that. I'm from East Lansing and I can't get any more from up there. So my fellow students, you are my last hope. Sorority girls, family, Domer brother's roommates, friends at MSU all need 'em. Call Hasbro at £3498 or £3506 or my life Is OVER II WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL 284-43211 NEED 3 GA'S FOR MICH STATE. CALL MEL, 2658, EVENINGS. MEET THE FIRMS MEET THE FIRMS MEET THE FIRMS Tues., Sept. 15, 6:45-IO:OOpm  10. Lizard's in it. 9. You can cause mental streas to all women. 8. II you don't hate them, what good are they? 7. It allows you to hate curling Irons also. 6. It makes road trips more fun --or at least Dooley's 5. Hospitalization. 4. You getto drink your own pitcher. 3. Napes is a member. 2. The Beef is a member. 1. You are allowed to say, "Get out of my way balore I dom­inate you." For info call the londler at 1215. SPEAKING OF SPORTS ND football Isn't the only game In town. Talk Irish soccer with John Guignon, Steve Lowney, Joe Sternberg, Bruce McCourt and Randy Morris tonight on WVFI from 1o-11 p.m. Join Rick Rietbrock and co-host Pete Gagen by calling 239-6400. KEVIN, DON'T DO ITI THE "CUSH LIFE" ENDS WHEN YOU SAY, "I DO" CAPITALISM  
found: one watch with broken band. feminine. found In stephan fields about  Couches, chairs, tables Very reasonable. Call Mrs. Cooper alter 6:00. 272-8085  or GA tix. Will PAY BIG $$$$ call Rich X2050.  and I stud. ticket. I'll take best offer. BOB X1219  Monogram Room All Business Students  INNOCENT PARTY TO BLAME EVERY MON & WED 5:30 STEPAN  
one week ago. call 1384 otherwise my sister gets It LOST-I lost my calculus notebook and text while studying at a Michigan game tallgater at Ann Arbor. II found, please call TOM HAND at £3172  TECNICS SA190,POLK AUDIO 4AS. CALL TOM, 234-83n. MACINTOSH 512K printer w-BASIC,PASCAL, &SPREADSHEET.  HELPIIIII Parents, little brother & little sister coming across water all the way from Puerto Rico to see NAVY geme Need 4 Tickets. Cell Gil at 2n·7261 I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741  I HAVE MSU TIXJ TAKING BEST OF­FER. £4095 Need MSU Tickets -Will pay dearly -Call ~34-83n WANTED: 2 USC nx lor mom and dad  Career and Internship Information MEET THE FIRMS Tueedey, Sept. 15, Monogrem Room 8:45-10:00pm Married?Engaged? Looking lor a sale,  SPEAK UP and JOIN TOASTMASTERS INTEANATIONALI Wednesdays 7:30p.m. 223 Hayes-Healy TOASTMASTERS I TOASTMASTERS I TOASTMASTERS I  
HELPt I LOST MY KEYS, DETEX, WASHINGTON STATE DRIVERS LICENSE. CALL 2971.  Call Torn,234-8377. HONDA 110 SCOOTER, EXCELLENT COND. GREAT FOR OFF CAMPUS TRANSPORTATION. ~275 X2359.  I need two MSU GA's. My life depends on ~. Save my life and You will ba rewarded. Will beat your bast offer. Call Harry at 1398.  call Kris 3099 $$ lor your Mich. St. student tlx Call Jon 2oos  effectlve,and morally acceptable means of spacing OR achieving pregnancy? CAll 2n-6807 or 237-7401 lor info on Natural Family Planning class starting S't 6 7pm Hayes-HealyAud  Wednesdays 7:30p.m. 223 Hayes-Healy Aren't there any MOOSE In lndiana?­ 
I MUST GET 4 MICH ST GA TIX-$45  II you have any tickets lor any games,  3169  
wwaterbad,O-size,heater,mattress­ PLUS HELP AMY £25741  please call Sister Kathleen Harklno o.p.  FR. DUNNE WILL LEAD AN INFORMAL  
pad,slde paddlng,$125,2n-131S  collect at 312-425·2850 or write 4100 W  DISCUSSION  FOR  THEOLOGY  $$HELPIII$$  NEED  MSU  AND  USC  
FOR RENT  Stereo Audio Mlxer,NUMARK model DM- Need MSU tixl 1 Stud and 2 GAs Call  1 07th Oak Lawn, IL 80453.  MAJORS AND OTHER INTERESTED PERSONS ON WEDNESDAY, SEP­ TICKETS STUDENT OR GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID r1592  
500,never used,$50neg.,2n-1318  Kevin  li71 -94 79 $$$  NAVY-NEED  2  GA'S  USC-NEED 1  TEMBER  16  AT  8:00  PM  INO  341  
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND FAIR PRICES 2n-3097 683-8889  1979 MUSTANG COBRA. Brown, 4 speed, TURBO engine, sunroof, AMFM cassette player, 70,000 miles. Looks  Need 2 or 4 MSU GA'slll Call Usa at 4588.  STUD. JOHN x1887 EVERYBODY PROMISES MONEY AND  O'SHAUGNESSY. DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL ALYSSA 3736  MONARCH tonite at Chip's Come experience NO's bast band  
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR ND. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 Room lor rent. Call Mrs. Cooper 272­3004. FOR RENT FURNISHED, BEAUTIFUL 3 BEDROOM APT 10 MIN FROM ·CAMPUS 233 6298  good, runs excellent. $1500 289-1586 Macintosh 51 2K enhanced, lmagewriter printer, misc. software. Call Cliff at 4268. TICKETS I NEED TWO (2) GA TIX TO THE NAVY GAME CALL CHUCK AT 283-2443 NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276  Need Boston Collage GA 'a --will pay $$11 Call4302. WANTED 3 SOUTHERN CAL TICKETS REAL MONEYI CALL 233 6298 ................................................................ SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL­ING TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 257811 CAN YOU HELP? Mom and Dad would love 2 G .A.s to USC game Will pay $$$1 Call Kathy at 2802.  BEGS FOR TICKETS, I'm just going to tell ~ like It Is. I need as many GA's as possible to any home game for my whole family. I need 8 In all, but will take them even 1 by 1. Call Dane at 1 1 85. I need I michigan stale GA or SMix. call Peter at 31 92 PAY BIG BUCKS lor 2-4 GA's lor Navy game Call John 3179 NAVY NAVY HAW c..h for GA'..Stud Todd-3754  YO, D.C., Will you pretty please print the words to the Irish Extra Theme Song soon? In­quiring minds want to knowl Mad Ma'cs-Mclntosh Users Group First meeting, 7 p.m., Thursday, Sept. 17 In Room 124 in Hayes-Healy. Hyper Card, Mutti-Finder, The Mac II and morel Mac experts, novices, and new members welcome.  GARBANZO BEANS--T MINUS live days and counting until the arrival of Mlas Colorado. I hope this Bo scores batter than the one In Michigan. Stay tuned lor more... Cute SMC chic: answers to Scarlet, is looking lor handsome ND boy that is "husband material." Dowry included. Must sport L.L. Bean wardrobe. II inter­ested call 284-5481 SMC Finance Club  
TURTLE CREEK: now renting 2 bdrm. apartment, very close to campus. 271­0513  NEED BC TICKETS WILL PAY $ call Theresa 233-5732  NEED 5 MSU GA'S OR STUDENT TIXI Call JANE 283-4228, or KATHY 3807  HEY HOLMES II need eome 'BAMA TIX GA'S PREFERRED. GOOD MONEY cellblll1384  Need Calculus tutor. I am sinking last in Calc 117. You must understand more than I do or I'll sink even laster. I'm serious. call bill 1384.  Informational Meeting Tues. Sept. 15 7:45pm Rm. 304 Haggar ND Finance Club members welcome  
- MOVE IN NOWI FREE RENT UNTIL 11¥.!5-87. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­menta available, each with k~chen. lull bathroom and large living room. Beds and dreasers furnished. Rent lncludas all utilities. Call 232-9239 lor appointment.  NEED 2 TIX TO ANY ND HOME GAMES. CALL 272·3491. GA'S $$$ NAW TIX $$$ Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen ii7l-0585  USC ¢ PARENTS I NEED 4 GA'S DESPERATELY MONEY NO OBJECT CALL SEAN X3281 NFL AGENT NEEDS 2 USC TIX $$$$$ SEAN X3261  I NEED 1 M.S.U. G.A. ANOOR 1 STU­DENT TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 283-1881 N·~;;·G·A;~·;~;-~ii·;;;;;;;~-;;~~;;;;:·wiii·p;;v big $. Call John 1837  Sean --Happy 19th Blrthdayll Love, Hopey Dear Jim: I had fun last weekend. I hope we do not get kicked out of the University. I think  Truthful passion needed Enliven my body and soul Breathe into my heart and let me feel the sun penetrate my stagnant muscles st  
- FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-~0955 ................................................................ WANTED HIRING ALL POSITIONS ·FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST.. 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. m-5668. APPLY IN PERSON!  Need (4) GA's lor Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998. BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMESI CALL 4579 I NEED PENN ST GA'SI MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238. WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY ND HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE  WANTEDII4 STUD. TIX FOR MICH.ST. GAME, WILL PAY BIG $$$$..CALL ANDY AT 1968 I HAVE 4 NAW, 2 BC, OR 2 ALABAMA GAs TO TRADE FOR 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs, OR I'LL PAY CASH. DEBRA 3850 Will trade 2 NAVY GA lor 2 USC Call Mike 2204  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  we should get married. That's why I go here anyway. Love, Bambi The guys who slept ON the car In Ann Arbor want to thank all the Demers and Domettes that stopped by to stare, laugh, praise, and make sure our parking meter didn't run out. Party at our house MSU weekend and see ya all at Purdue I Mike & Bob Irish:  Dave Gallivan, BETTER TO LIGHT UP THAN MERELY TO SHINE, TO DELIVER TO OTHERS CON­TEMPLATED TRUTHS THAN MERELY TO CONTEMPLATE. (Saint Thomas Aquinas) Debbie Are you an entertelner?? Come end AUDITION for SMC'a CLUB TUES. DAYII For more Info cell 284-5444  
- ................................................................ NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK­ETS. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MIKE X4340 HIRING FULL AND PART TIME PHONE INTERVIEWERS FOR MARKET RE­SEARCH FIRM, SHOULD ENJOY TALKING WITH PEOPLE, TYPE 25 W­P-M, AND AVAILABLE FOR WEEKEND SlrtiFTS. FOR APPT., CALL 282-2754.  CALL MATT AT 1404 WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213­422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING and they need lour Michigan State tick­eta. Call Brutus NOW at 283-1483. Urghl Go Irish!  NEED 3 MSU TIX, STU OR GA, CALL JOE 2366 ................................................................ I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH ST. PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515 I NEED FIVE GA'S FOR MICH STATE. PLEASE CALL CORY 3561  WAKEUP! NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872  We are finally undalealed, 1-o. You were awesome In Michigan, but rest up-It just gets batter this weekend. The Leprechaun TRISH: So you liked the personal, but did you mark your calendar lor Thursday?  MAUREEN JENNINGS Ha,ha, though! you could get awey without e pereonel for your B-dey, hmm?? Heppy Blrthdey one dey lele . Love, Kl...-P.S. Shell-cut for goldfleh? NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. CALL 284· 5123  

-

--------------------------------~---------­

'·, 

Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
Clubs drag through weekend action 
While the varsity football, soccer, cross country Notre Dame takes this weekend off before going and women's tennis teams enjoyed highly success­to a tournament in Iowa on Sept. 24-26. ful weekends, the Notre Dame club teams did not have quite as much luck. ••• 
At a tournament in Purdue, the Women's Golf Club finished seventh out of a field of 11 teams. Following a scoreless tie with the University of Indiana University and Purdue were the top two Illinois in its season-opening game two weekends teams. 
Despite being the only club team participating in the two-day tournament, the Irish managed to keep Steve pace with the scholarship teams in the first day of the competition. The team slumped in the final day, Megargeealthough the team still finished ahead of four schol­arship teams. Club Corner 
"We played well on Saturday, but we didn't on Sunday," said junior Carolyn Burke. "We did about as well as we thought we would, but we could have ago, the Women's Soccer Club suffered a pair of done better. defeats last week to fall to 0-2-1 on the season. 
"All the other teams were varsity, and we were Whea~on outscored the Irish last Wednesday, 4-3, club, but we still beat four teams, so we did okay." and Marquette blanked Notre Dame, 2-0, Sunday. 
Mary Huffman was the low Notre Dame scorer "We played a tough game against Wheaton," said with rounds of 84 and 87 for a two-day score of 171. Club President Kate Titterton. "They were a lot Amy Junius, Burke, Roberta Bryer, and Heidi Han­stronger than we thought. san round out the top five finishers for the Irish. "Today (Sunday) we weren't very organized. We 
The Observer I Dan MacDonald Notre Dame soccer players celebrate after the team's first-ever win against Indiana Sunday. 
ND soccer reaches new heights 

By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Just how big was the Irish soccer team's 4-3 overtime vic­tory over Indiana? Jim Daves of the Notre Dame Sports In­formation Department pro­vides these measuring rods: 
• Notre Dame's four goals mark just the third time in the Hoosier's 14-year history an op­ponent has scored four goals. San Francisco downed Indiana 4-3 in overtime in the 1980 NCAA .. Championship game, and St. Louis whipped the Indiana and Loyola (Ill.) . Even Hoosiers 4-1 in 1975. last season Notre Dame 

• 
Notre Dame moved into a emerged with an overtime win fourth-place tie with Marquette at Connecticut and ties with Ak­in this week's Great Lakes ron and Florida International. region coaches' poll. Indiana is Overall the Irish are 14-4-15 in ranked fifth. The current overtime. ranking is the highest ever held • Midfielder Joe Sternberg by an Irish soccer team. scored five consecutive goals 

• 
Notre Dame's 5-0 start is the for the Irish over three games. program's best since 1978 when He scored the final two goals the team opened 10-0 before fal­in the 7-1 rout of Detroit, tallied ling to Goshen, 2-1. the only two goals against 

• 
The Irish have been ex­Western Michigan and headed tremely tough in overtime, home the first goal against In­winnin both matches a ainst diana .. 


Among the celebrities in at­tendance at the Indiana match were Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, former Irish soccer star Rich Herdegen, and Rich Hunter, the former coach of the Notre Dame soccer program. 
Hunter coached the team 
from its upgrade to a varsity
University Night EVERY 
program in 1977 to 1983, com­piling a 127-32-8 record. He laid the seeds of what has become
Tuesday Night 
a rapidly-growing program. 
"It's the second stage of de­velopment," says Hunter. "They have terrific players, players that can play with any 
10 CENT 
team in the country. I think they have a great future." Hunter, a professor at Seton 
DRAFTS 
Hall University, was in South Bend to deliver a lecture in law 
1.50 Mugs of Margaritas 
Monday at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. He sched­
and 

uled the trip around the Indiana game.
$1.00 Cover with NotreDameSt. 
"It's a great day for the soc­cer program,'' says Hunter. ''It
. Mary's ID 
shows the extent to which the
North V1llage Mall 
program has come under Coach Grace the last four years. I'm really proud to be a 
US 33 North 
277-1877 
part of it." 

weren't as quick to the ball as they were. We played all right. We played all right. We just need a little more communication among the team members. 
Notre Dame will have two chances this week to gain its first victory. The Irish will visit Hope Col­lege on Thursday and host Indiana University at home on Sunday. 
The Sailing Club encountered the problems one might expect when a team has the dual responsi­bility of running a regatta and competing in it. 
Notre Dame organized a regatta last weekend at the Diamond Lake Yacht Club in Michigan. The Irish ran the competition successfully, but did not do as well in the regatta competition as they had hoped. Notre Dame placed eighth out of 15 teams. 
The club is now preparing to compete in a regatta hosted by the University of Iowa this weekend. 
"We'll probably do a little better this weekend because of the competition," said Club President Mark Ryan. "It was just a little hard running the regatta and sailing it. There was a lot of confusion." 
Bears bomb Giants in battle of champs 
Associated Press Dennis McKinnon also had a 
94-yard fourth-quarter punt

CHICAGO -Mike Tomczak return for a touchdown that threw for two touchdowns and clinched the game, the second ran for a third and the Chicago straight defeat for the Giants defense kept New York's quar­on a season-opening Mondayterbacks under constant and night game. They lost to Dallas devastating pressure as the 31-28 last year then won 17 of Bears won the battle of the their next 18 games on the way Super Bowl champions, 34-19, to their Super Bowl victory. Monday night and reasserted But it was a defense led bytheir dominance in the NFL. Mike Singletary and Wilber 
The victory, which ended a Marshall that turned the game, 12-game New York winning registering eight sacks for 53 streak extending to the seventh yards in losses, seven on Super game of the 1986 regular Bowl MVP phil Simms and one season, was every bit as dom­on Jeff Rutledge, who had to en­
inant as Chicago's 21-0 win in . ter the game twice when the 1985 playoffs that the 1986 Simms was knocked groggy. champions wanted so badly to By contrast, the New York avenge. The Bears were beaten defense considered the equal of by Washington last year, one Chicago's, was held without a game short of an NFC title sack by the Bears' offensive game meeting with the Giants. line. 
Tomczak, filling in for the in­Only the last of New York's jured Jim McMahon, com­three touchdowns came pleted 20 of 34 for 292 yards, against the Chicago defense including third-quarter touch­and their only sustained drive down passes of 56 yards to until the fourth quarter came Willie Gault and 42 yards to on thefirst series of the game, Ron Morris and snuck over when they drove 66 yards to the from the 1 with eight seconds Chicago 10, where Todd Bell left in the half to give Chicago sacked Simms and forced a the lead for the first time at fumble that was recovered by10-7. Marshall. 
Ryan 
continued from page 16 
finishers. Last week, at the Purdue Triangular, that differ­ential was 1:44. On Saturday, it improved to 1: 19. 
"Our goal," said Ryan, "is to get the top five in under one minute. We're working toward 
that goal." 

The second stat which pleased Ryan was the improve­ments his harriers made in their times in just one week. 

Terry Klbel1tl1 

Rice's 20-second improvement was bettered by the 30-second gain of Wendy Murray and Julie Merkel's huge leap of 49 seconds. 
On the whole, Ryan des­cribed the meet in very simple terms. 
"It wasn't a very pretty race, but they worked together and won." 


Help Prevent Birth Defects ""Support t~ 
'"'t'~!roK:9.t~~~ 
Thereu Rice 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987

page 12 The Observer 
Gradel is alive and kicking in fifth year 
By THERESA KELLY There just wasn't any enthusi­holder, senior quarterback Sports Writer asm. Terry Andrysiak, for the work "At the time, I could have they have put into the kicking 
As any athlete knows, sitting been playing and still not be game this year. on the bench for four years is happy," Gradel says. "We've tried to get in as not the best way to spend a col­But when Lou Holtz took much work as possible as a lege career. over, Gradel says the whole unit," he says. "They've been 
As Ted Gradel knows, a fifth team sat up and took notice. real cooperative, staying the year can make all the differ­"Right away, his presence extra fifteen minutes or so ence. was felt," Gradel says. "We when they're tired and sore 
Gradel spent four years. as gained respect for him and en­after practice. the backup to Irish placekicker thusiasm for Notre Dame foot­"I'm fortunate to have been John Carney, but returned for ball. We all worked hard again. working with Tim and Terry. I a fifth year of elegibility. There was a bigger time com­have a lot of confidence in 
"I've always felt it was an itment, but people were happy them. They make my job a lot honor to be a part of Lou Holtz' to put that time in." easier." team," says Gradel, who was When football became fun Another factor in Gradel's not assured of the starting spot again, Gradel knew that his improvement this season at the beginning of fall prac­chance could come with an­stems from his work with tice. other year of elegibility. recruiting coach Vinny Cer­
"It would have been easy to "You see so many more fifth rato, who put together a pro­hang it up after my fourth year guys than before," he gram for the kickers to make year," Gradel admits, "to go says. "That's because of the the best use of their practice on and begin a career-start the new enthusiasm. Football is time. next phase of my life. fun again." "He's given us organization 
"But once I made the deci­Placekicking is an aspect of and direction in our workouts,'' sion to come back, I've put football that is overlooked until says Gradel. "We work to­every ounce of energy into foot­it becomes a problem. Gradel gether so we can learn from ball." is not looking for a John Carney­each other.': 
Gradel seems to have made like finish to his career. The "Ted's made great prog­the right choice. His eight Irish won their final game on ress," says Cerrato. "It takes points against Michigan were Carney's last second field goal a different kind of person to four times more than he had against USC. keep with it behind John Carney scored in his entire career. "I don't want to focus on one for so long. He'll make the most 
His first three years under game or one victory," he says. of his turn, as long as he keeps Gerry Faust, however, were "My personal goals are to keep up his consistency." not what Gradel expected from improving all the time and help Gradel has kept a good atti­Notre Dame. the team on a weekly basis. tude for four years and has fi­
"I grew up with Notre Dame Other teams can focus on us as nally gotten to where he wants football," Gradel says. "I've the team to beat. Everyone is to be. been coming to games since I up for our game," Gradel con­"I came back because I had 
was a little kid. I had really tinues. "But everyone on our the chance to be a part of an high expectations, as all fans schedule is a challenge to us. outstanding team with a chal­do. We have to take each game as lenging schedule," Gradel The Observer I Greg Kohs 
"I wasn't so much frustrated it comes." says. "It's exciting to be part Ted Gradel, a walk-on senior from Sylvania, Ohio, kicks off against with my playing time but with Gradel credits his snapper, of the lOOth year of Irish foot­Michigan last Saturday-"Once I made the decision to come back, the direction of the program. sophomore Tim Grunhard, and ball. I've put every ounce of energy Into football." 

•
ratllS tosctence. 

The Tl-6 5 lut, ,d/ rh,·

Thl' Tl-60 fundl<lll\ mduJe T/-6L1 (imdi<JIL\, Jl/lt.\ ll
hcxt!Jeclmall••dal u 111 t·enitm.\. 
IC<~JltnHch/rnncr }<~r ltrh tc<~rk.

mregrtl!l<ln U.lllll,' S1m/Js1111\ rule. <'l!(hl flh\.\ICtrl (<111\(llll!.\ /;IT 11.\C
\!ti!IS!ILS (i11dtwi11g lmetlr regres­m rh<'rtll<~thnarnll.\ anJ
_\11111). rre11J line t~nulv 1i.1 anJ ph~·sics as u dltl.\ Dec1s1• Ill 
mernc 111 Engli.1h Clli1WT.\IIlns. Prugrummmg :ajJtrhrlHI<''­
)im nm flr"J.:ram H4 seeps. 
)i 111 Ctlll/>n '.~'Ttllll JLlll 1!<:/J-'­

Tl advanced scientifics have science, math and engineering handle the hardest problems, they're calculators from the fulks who've given problems are. Then we designed our easy to use. Large, color-coded keys their brains to science. The Advanced
all the right engineering and 
calculators around them. The result: and simple keyboard layouts mean Scient ifics fro~1 Texas l nstruments. 
science functions to help you 
the TI-60 and the new TI-65 are you spend less time figuring out the function better in school. both packed with built-in functions. calculator and more time figuring 
''""' TEXAS~ 

\Vhen we set out to make our most Plus, there are programming steps to out your problems. advanced scientific calculators, we speed you through repetitive calcula· So if you're the kind of student who's 
gave a lot of thought to what your tions. But even though both can got science on the brain, get the INSTRUMENTS 



-------~ 
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
The Observer page 13 

~e;n~~~;ct;ur ~~i~:~:;e
kb {! th · t d•t th Phils in '88
wor eore ey pnn e I on epage. tA•;::::::IA-In the 
"'' 
AP Photo 

After winning the singles title, Ivan Lendl holds hla U.S. Open cham­pionship trophy aloft. Lendl Is the first non-American to win three consecutive U.S. Open men's singles titles. 
What a mess! 

You've just proofread your term paper and it's got typos, spelling errors and misplaced paragraphs, 
Now, you can't hand in a paper like this, So no matter how tired you are. you've got to retype the entire thing, 
/mp;. 

! 
~hat is. _unless you typed it on ,·~tl -/ a V1deownter.~ '~I 1 The Videowriter solves all J'l~./fo . · · your typing problems. /l ~ /j •
1 

Take the most obvious one: l/1 · .· ·. typos. 
On an ordinary typewriter it would mean a bottle of white-out and a frus­

it just means press­ing the key marked "delete." That's all. Because you type your work on a screen before you print it on a page. 
~£!. It edits. · And how about those bigger problems ~ like wanting to rearrange paragraphs? On an ordinary typewriter you have to "cut and 
paste" them. 

On a Videowriter you only have to press the key marked "move·· and then indicate the area you want it moved to. It's that simple. 
It spells. What happens when you're typing and you come to a word you can't spell? On an ordinary typewriter you have to stop typing, find a dictionary and look it up. Not so on a Videowriter. Spelling problems can be corrected simply by pressing the key marked "spell." 
It counts words. 

If you've ever had a teacher tell you to write a thousand word essay, you know what a pain it is 
trying to count your words. On an ordinary typewriter you have to do it with your finger. But on a Videowriter you can press a mere two 
~<Q>~~<Q><Q>~~~<Q><Q><Q><Q>~~~ 
U.S. Open final 
Lendl wins third straight title 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Ivan Lendl won his third straight U.S. Open title Monday, rallying after losing his first set of the tourn­ament to beat Mats Wilander in a lengthy baseline battle. 
Lendl, weakened by the flu, downed the 23-year-old Swede 6-7 (7-9), 6-0, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 in a '4-hour, 47-minute match at the National Tennis Center. 
Lendl thrust his fists upward in joy and covered his face with his hands after closing out the match with a backhand service return down the line. Both players had held serve in the final set until the lOth game. 
Lendl, who has also won three French Open titles, said his illness drained him during the match. 
"I was out of juice for the last 3 ll.l sets ," he said. "It was strength of mind and a little bit of luck. In this kind of match, there's such little difference between the players." 
Lendl, 27, and John McEnroe are the only men to win three 
buttons and it does the counting for you. 
It makes multiple copies. 

From time to time you want a copy of 
what you've typed, right? Well, if you use a Videowriter you won't have to go to the school library to look 
for a copier machine. All you'll have to look for is the 
button marked "print." Press it and the Videowriter will make another original. 
And because your work is auto­matically stored on a standard 3 Yz" floppy disk, you can make those copies whenever you want. It obviously does a lot more than type. 
That's because the word pro­cessing features just go on and on. 
What's more. we sell the Videowriter" Word Processor for around the price of a good electronic typewriter. 
And that's quite a bargain when you consider the amount of time it'll save you. Time you can spend doing the work for your other classes. 
You would do that, wouldn't you? 
0 19H7 NAP Cunsulflt'l EIKirumnCurp A Nurlh Aml!'no 11n Phlliv~l·llm!J.any 

Vult•uwnt<"r'l>olrt"~l>ll'rt'dlr,ult•llldfkul~urlh,\lli<"TII"·IIII'hlhps("lJII>UnlerEiertrntllrS("llrp 
aJII ··G... A\.QM 
~¥1
IYIH ~ Smart.Very smart. 

consecutive singles titles at the Open. 
"It's something I never dreamt of," Lendl said. "It's unbelievable. If somebody told me three years ago, when I had lost my third straight final, I wouldn't have believed it. I would have said that person was crazy." 
Wilander, who has won two French and two Australian Open titles, was in his first U.S. Open final. 
"I was surprised to be in the final," he said. "But after the way I played in the tourna­ment, I thought I could win it." 
It was Lendl's second victory over Wilander this year in a Grand Slam final, with the first coming on the slow red clay at the French Open. The U.S. Open is played on hardcourts, a faster surface. 
Wilander, a classic baseliner, said he tried to be aggressive against Lendl, who has a more varied attack. 
"I was the one who was at­tacking," Wilander said. "But you can't do it all the time. I can't attack any more for my 
! 
§ midst of a September slump, the Philadelphia Phillies signed interim manager Lee Elia to a one-year contract ~ 
§ Monday. Elia, 50, was appointed manager June 18 in Chicago after John Felske was fired. 
I 
National League 
1!881 
W L Pel. QB St. Louis 83 59 .565 New York 82 61 .573 1.5 Montreal 81 61 .570 2 Philadelphia 72 71 .503 11.5 

! 
Chicago 70 72 .-493 13 Pittsburgh 68 75 .476 15.5 
WMI San Francisco 78 68 .542 Houston 71 72 .497 6.5 

Cincinnati 71 73 .-493 7 Atlanta 62 80 .-437 15 Los Angeles 80 83 .420 17.5~ San Diego 59 6-4 .413 18.5 
I 
Monday•a RMUIIa New York 8, Chicago 5 Philadelphia 3, St. Loula 2, 11 Innings Montreal 6, Plttaburgh 4, 1-4 lnnlnga Atlanta 3, Cincinnati 2 Houston 8, Loa Angelea 1 San Francisco 4, San Diego 3 
TUHday'a oamea Cincinnati (Robinson 6·4) at AUanta (Palmer 8·10) Chicago (Maddux 6-11) at New York (Fernandez 

§ § § 
§ ~ 
§§ § § 
style. I don't have that good a volley and he passes so well." 
The match, postponed Sun­day because of rain, started un­der sunny skies at 2: 11 p.m. EDT. when it ended at 6:58 p.m., the sun had set and the stadium lights were on. 
Wilander, who was more emotional than usual during the match, won the first-set tie­breaker after saving one set point with a forehand passing shot. 
The set, which lasted 1 ll.l hours, ended when Lendl hit a forehand that landed inches wide of the sideline. Lendl argued briefly with chair um­pire Richard Kaufman, who declined to overrule the line of­ficial's call. 
That broke Lendl's 25-set winning streak at the Open. He hadn't lost a set at the Open since losing the third set in his quarterfinal victory over Henri Leconte last year. 
The last player to win the 
U.S. men's singles title without losing a set was Neale Fraser in 1960, eight years before the tournament was opened to professionals. 
10-8) 
St. Louis (Magrane 7·7) at Philadelphia (K. Gross 
6·13) Montreal (Heaton 12·7) at Plttaburgh (Bielicki 1·2) Houston (Knepper 8·14) at Loa Angeles (Belcher 1-1) San Diego (Notte 2-3) at San Francisco (Hammaker 9·10) 
American League 
Eaal 
W  L  Pel.  08  
Detroit  86  57  .801  
Toronto  86  57  .801  
Milwaukee  80  6-4  .556  6.5  
New York  79  6-4  .552  7  
Boston  69  73  .466  16.5  
Baltimore  62  61  .434  24  
Cleveland  55  90  .379  32  
WMI  
Minnesota  n  86  .531  
Kansas City  73  71  .507  3.5  
Oakland  72  72  .500  4.5  
Texas  69  75  .479  7.5  
California  68  76  .472  8.5  
Seattle  67  76  .469  9  
Chicago  62  81  .434  14  
Monday'• RMUtla  

Milwaukee 6, New York -4 Detrott 3, Boston 0 Toronto 18, Baltimore 3 Chicago 8, Minnesota 2 Kanoaa City 8. Calnomla 5 Texaa 2, Oakland 1 , 11 Inninga Cleveland 11, Seattle 8 
TUHclay'aOamea Milwaukee (Nievea 12-6) at New York (Leiter 0-0) Boston (Woodward 0-0 or Nipper 9-11) at Detroit (Tanana 13-10) Baltimore (Mesa 0-0) at Toronto (Aanagan -4-6) Mlnneaola (Niekro 6-11) at Chicago (McDowell 0-0) California (Fraser 9·9) at Kanaaa City (D. Jackson 6-16) Oakland (Young 12·7) at Texaa (Harris 5-9) Cleveland (Schrom 5-11) at Seattle (M. Moore 7-17) 
'-· 
~-· ~Ji:(.
,,.·1:' 

page 14 The Observer 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch the Panthers, 8·1, to run their win streak to four matches. 
Belles tennis takes first four 
By ANNE GALLAGHER Sports Writer 
The predictions of Saint Mary's tennis coach Debra Laverie came true as the team emerged from its first four con­tests undefeated. 
"We went in expecting to win," said Laverie. 
The Belles began the season Sept. 8 by shutting out Val­paraiso University, 9-0. Number-one spotholder Jen­nifer Block showed resiliance when she came back to win her match. After losing a close first set, 6-7, to Heidi Bussewitz, she handled the Crusader op­ponent, 6-2, 6-0. 
Other singles victories in­cluded Sarah Mayer, Charlene Szajko, Elizabeth Heinz, Mary Turk and Jane Schnell. 
Two days later the squad travelled to Chicago where it defeated NCAA power DePaul University, 6-3. 
"We played on a clay surface here which is unusual to find now," said Laverie. "It really slows down the game." 
The clay surface seemed to agree with freshman Sarah Mayer who won straight sets, 6-3, 7-5. Szajko and Schnell also helped the Belles' cause as they each lost their first sets but came back to win their respec­tive matches. 

In doubles play, Block and Heinz teamed up to win, 6-3, 6-4, as did Schnell and Turk, 6-3, 6-3. 
The victory against Hillsdale College was sweet but not short. Halfway through play, heavy rain forced the teams to finish the match at the Jackson 
Streak ends; Jays set record 
Associated Press 
TORONTO-Ernie Whitt hit three of Toronto's major-league record 10 home runs Monday night as the Blue Jays rolled to an 18-3 victory over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Baltimore shortstop Cal Rip-Raquetball Club, 45 minutes away. 

Once again the doubles team of Block and Heinz won, 6-1, 6-4. Mayer and Szajko pulled out of a close first set, 7-6 and went on to win their second set, 6-4, as well as the match. 
In singles competition five of the six Saint Mary's players won in straight sets. 
"All the singles players were ~tt ...._ ~ 
aggressive and dominated," ~~:r.~~---------------__:~~~~ 
said Laverie. 
The Belles hosted the Univer­sity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Sept. 13. The team ended this series of four games almost as strong as they began by taming the Panthers, 8-1. 
"This was a really good yardstick to measure our im­provement by," said Laverie. 
Last year the Belles defeated Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 5-4. 
Baseball had never before kept records of consecutive in­nings played, but it is generally believed by historians of the game that Ripken's streak is the longest ever by a player. 
Jim Clancy, 13-10, got the vic­tory. Ken Dixon, 7-10, took the loss. 
eighth inning by Ron Washing­ton. Ripken's streak began on June 5, 1982. 
It didn't appear that an in­jury was •he reason for the sub-· stitution. Ripken batted in the top of the inning, hitting into a fielder's choice. 
ken had his consecutive inning -----------•MJY,'N'rNWWYw.....MMMJ!I 
streak stopped at 8,243 when he was replaced defensively in the eighth inning. 
The Blue Jays hit thre< 
homers in the second inning, two in the third, one in the sixth, two in the seventh and one in the eighth in breaking the record of eight homers in a game set by the 1939 New York Yankees and tied by six other teams. Whitt hit solo homers in the second and fifth and added a three-run homer in the seventh. 
George Bell hit two homers for the Blue Jays to take over the major-league lead with 45. Rance Mulliniks also had two homers while Lloyd Moseby, Rob Ducey and Fred McGriff each homered once. 
Ripken had played every in­ning of 998 consecutive games until he ·was replaced at shortstop in the bottom of the 
WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
EARLY AM OR t::.vt::NINQS 
Attention 

~-------. 
Club Presidents 
There will be a mandatory meeting on Thursday, September 17, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Items to be discussed 1nclude how to access money 
from your studnnt activity too budget, how !CJ appoal your allocation, rnmchandisir1g rlrlcJ · concoss1on stancl guidelines, ancJ a prcsor 1tation on tuncJraising. 
Thme will bn a penalty 1! your· ckJb or organi7at1on does not have a mombor in attendance. 
-~~----~ -­
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 

Sports Briefs . " 
Roberto Guerrero, the Indy-cardriverwho suffered head injuries in a crash Thursday at Indianapolis Motor Speedway, showed some signs of improvement Monday, but remained hospitalized in critical but stable condition, a hospital spokeswoman said. Guerrero, 29, was injured when his car hit the second-turn and a wheel came loose, striking his helmet. -Associated Press 
Shoryn-Ryu karate classes have begun in the Boxing Room of the ACC and are open to all students and faculty. Shoryn-Ryu is a conservative fighting style emphasizing discipline and self-defense. Classes meet Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7-8:30 p.m. For more information, contact NVA or Mike Donovan at 283-1690. -The Observer 
Varsity Men's Crew will have practice today at 
4:15 p.m. at the boathouse. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club now has applications for the Turning Leaves Century bicycle tour on Sunday October 
4. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 and leave your name and address for an application. There are also daily rides from the Bus Stop at 4 p.m. -The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will be giving lessons to all members or potential members at St. Joseph's Beach today through Friday from 3 to 5 p.m. For more informa­tion contact Carter at 1723. -The Observer 
Referees are needed for men's and women's Inter hall football and Inter hall soccer. Anyone interested should attend a meeting today at the NVA offices at 5:30p.m. 
-The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
~ ~ l 
---~ 
~ 
A4 A4 _ 


-,v,v 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy Road South Bend, Indiana 46637 

"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reservations call (219) 277-9682 


D 


Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm Washington Hall Tickets on sale at the Washington Hall box office M4-M6 12-6 pm $4.00 ND;SMC student "~ ~~0~ $8.00 public ~:b. ~ ~ 
For information, ~~0'{. ~~fll "'ttl-'{. call 239-7757 ~~0 ~\": ~ 

-

--------~~-­
Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus 
12:00 
p.m.-1:00 p.m.; SMC Center for Spirituality's Wo­men of Faith Series, Reflections on women who affected the lives of others and influenced history; speaker: Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., on Etty Hillesum; Stapleton Lounge, Lemans Hall. 

12:00 
p.m.-2:00p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar (Brown Bag) "Popular Mobilization and Democratization in Chile," by Prof. Manuel Antonio Garreton, Visiting Pro­fessor of Sociology and FLASCO, Chile; Room 131, Decio Hall. 


3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "A Laboratory Sized Three Phase Catalytic Loop Reac­tor," by Dr. Geoffrey A. D'Netto, Dept. of Chemical En­gineering, Smith, Kline, and French Laboratory; Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Evaluating Spatial Patterns in Biological Data" by Dr. Richard Jen­sen, Room 283, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium; Coffee at 4:15.p.m. 
6:30 p.m.-8:00 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series, ''Time Management,'' a workshop focus­ing on how to use time more effectively, presented by Dr. Christine Conway, Staff Psychologist, University Counsel­ing Center; Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:00 
p.m.: SMC Volleyball vs. Valparaiso University; SMC Soccer Field. 

7:00 
p.m.-9:00p.m.: Lecture by Regis Campfield from SMU Law School, sponsored by Pre-Law Society; Room 103, O'Shaughnessy. 

7:00 
p.m. & 9:00 p.m.: Notre Dame Communications and Theatre Film, "Young Mr. Lincoln," Annenberg 


Auditorium. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Monterey Muffin Melt Lasagna Meatloaf Mushroom Stroganoff 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Baked Fish with Sauce Beef and Bean hanga Deli Bar 
Tartar Chimic­

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Feathered scarves 5 Ancient Br. native 9 Cervine 
creature 13 Otherwise 14 A Flynn 16 Mil. sch. 17 Moreno or 
Hayworth 18 Nary a soul 19 Plenty to 
poets 20 Accomplishing
nothing 23 Matched group 24 Fuel 25 Highlands hat 28 Table group 31 Clannish 35 Seat of Ohio 
Northern U. 36 Before mural 
or state 38 Trucker's rig 39 Object of sci­
entific quest 43 Nev. city 44 "Dr. Watson" 
(-Bruce)  
45  Ares  or  Zeus  
46  Live  
49  Arrive  at  the  
airport  

50 Sp. queen 51 Strong wind 53 -Aviv 55 Surpass easily 62 Barrett or 
Jaffe 63 Coral Island 64 Words of com­
prehension 65 To­
(unanimously) 66 Author Erich 67 Genuine 68 Sensed 69 Viscous 70 Punta del ­
DOWN 1 Floe's cousin 2 Salmagundi 3 Piedmont city 

1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
09115187

All Rights Reserved 
4 Connery and 
Penn 5 Feeling sorrow 6 Golf club 7 Gator's kin 8 Gin and ­9 Hamilton or 
Burr: var. 10 Thrall of yore 11 Biblical 
patriarch 12 Crude 15 Dormouse 21 Lamp dweller 22 Auto 25 Candle 26 Fred's dancing 
sister 27 Report card 
showing 29 Daze 30 Lag behind 32 Ecru 33 "-for the 
Misbegotten" 34 Evans of "Dynasty" 

R A-S TAD­

-1 
SIE PR:F I D E L HAL.RIITA TERRA I 0 N cI E '::IfI L I u E M • 0 0 N
P A I L S LIAINID. 1 0 DE S I D L E LIOICII •• 
H A M S T I E D H E R D S ERIIE TEAL ONSET A D D S E S N E R E A R S 
.. "i""I"". 
09115187 

37 Seaweed 55 Eur. capital 40 Touching 56 Single 41 In the mind 57 Full of energy 42 Not as young 58 Rebuff 47 Patriotic gp. 59 Employs 48 Walt -Disney 60 Straight 52 Stage direction 61 Printing term 54 Nante's river 62 Br. fliers 
Comics 
Bloom County 
I .. I WANT TO 6RtJW liP IINfl M!N(J flOWN 
fli/M8 Me/ IN HIGH 
Ft'JS!TlONfJ.' 
\ 
f.~l
~~;A;''

--~~{f~~~
' ~ ~~~ 
Beernuts 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
I WI/NT TO !JeCO/Y16 II &IIM6 SHOW H05T£5S IINP £fii?N M!UIONS / I WIWT VA &orm 1lJ 5TIIR IN II Jf!Mf~ 80NP .J/ CHI/~6 MOVIE-l CY? II KOCK V!ll£0 l f3!Mf30. Y£1{ fli?€11M5, 
Of{ 8€ II fflOf£55/0NIIL. !M5Y. CH££1(/.&IIflef? l I 
'-\ 
Mark Williams 

"OK, you've got me over a barrel ... but how do I know these are a// the negatives?" 


Sports
page 16 Tuesday, September 15, 1987 
Volleyball improves, but settles for third 
with 15 kills and five service aces, while junior Maureen Shea hit home 13 kills and had 5 blocks in another solid all­around performance. 
"I thought we played very 

well against USC," said Notre 
Dame head coach Art Lam­
bert, "but once again critical 
errors at critical times really 
hurt us and cost us a chance to 
win that match. 
"We've proved that we can play with some of the top teams in the nation. Now we have to . go out and beat some of them." 
The Irish improved their 

record to 4-2 on Sunday with a 
15-7, 9-15, 21-19, 15-8 victory 
over Illinois State. 
After splitting the first two 

games, the two teams battled 
in the highest scoring game in 
Notre Dame history. The Irish 
pulled out the 21-19 victory to 
take a 2-1 advantage before 
clinching the match with a con­
vincing 15-8 win in the fourth 
game. 
In that contest, Shea led 
see SHEA, page 10 


Irish motor past competition at Detroit Invite 
ND men's harriers whip Hoyas 
By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
Just one Georgetown runner kept the Notre Dame men's cross country team from recording a perfect score in its opening-meet victory Satur­day. 
The Irish occupied five of the top six positions in the dual meet at Washington D.C., with a lone Hoya finishing third. The strong showing propelled Notre Dame to an 18-41 win over the defending Big East champions to start the new season. 
"Georgetown was supposed to be a good test for us early in the season," said Irish coach Joe Piane, now in his 13th season at the helm. "We were ready for that test, and came through in fine form." 
Leading the way for Notre Dame were sophomore Mike O'Connor (26:08) and junior Ron Markezich 126: 18), finish­ing first and second, respec­tively. 
"I have said since last spring that those two (O'Connor and Markezich) could finish at or near the top in each race, and they did just that," Piane said. 
Another Irish star was senior Mike Smoron who finished fifth with a time of 26:49. Smoron was injured all of last year, and began light training only five months ago. 
"Mike worked extremely hard over the summer and deserves to be where he is.'' Piane said. "He runs with a lot of heart and is a real competi­tor -a· nice surprise.'· 
The Irish look to be one of the favorites in the upcoming Na­tional Catholic Invitational. Senior captain Dan Garrett, who finished sixth with a time of 26:59 on Saturday, will be a key to future success according to Piane. 
"Our gap of 51 seconds (between the times of the first 
see IRISH, page 10 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team turned in an impressive performance over the weekend at the Mid-America Classic, winning one match and losing another. 
Itwas the second consecutive third-place tournament finish for the Irish in as many weekends. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame stayed close to 12th-ranked Southern Cal but could not pull out the victory, losing 10-15, 12­15, 15-13, and 7-15 in the first round of the tournament. 
The Irish battled the Trojans for over two hours and outhit them in kill percentage, .225 to .185. Despite losing the first two games and being down 13-8 in the potential match-clinching game for Southern Cal, Notre Dame battled back and scored the final seven points to force a fourth game. 
Junior Zanette Bennett, who was named to the all­tournament team, led the Irish 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
For three· weeks the Notre Dame women's cross-country team has trained hard, almost too hard. 
On Saturday, the team's hard work finally paid off as the Irish virtually mastered the challenging course at the Detroit Invitational and ran away with their first champi­onship of the season. 
Led by junior Theresa Rice, the Irish placed seven runners in the top 10 for 25 points, edging out Detroit (35), Mal­comb Junior College (82) and four other teams. 
Rice took the lead in the race early and never looked back. Her time of 18:49.1 set a new meet record, and was nearly 40 seconds better than the second­place finisher. 
In Notre Dame's first meet last weekend, Rice placed second on the team to fellow junior Terry Kibelstis, but in just one week Rice improved her time by 20 seconds over the 5,000-meter course. 
"This course was much more challenging and interesting," said Rice. "We all went into this meet very confident." 
But Rice was by no means Head Coach Dan Ryan's only weapon. 
Kibelstis placed third 
(19:35.9) and freshman Jen Ledrick (20:04.3) led a group of five Irish runners who finished within seven seconds of each other. 
Ryan attributed his team's success to its demanding train­ing schedule. 
"This meet marked the end of our three-week 'real hard crunch,'" said Ryan. "We had three weeks of very hard prac­tice. They looked very tired, but also very strong and confi­dent." "When you practice that hard, it makes you tired for the first couple meets," Rice added. "But we knew that we had worked harder (than the other teams)." 
The Titans of Detroit finished close to the Irish and, in fact, were leading early in the race. At one point, in the first mile, five Detroit runners occupied the second through sixth places behind Rice. 

The Irish, however, remained confident. 
"We ran against them last year," said Kibelstis, "and we knew that they like to push out hard and take control of meets. We sat back (in the first mile), and in the second mile we came alive and controlled the meet.'' 
There were two key Irish sta­tistics in Ryan's mind. The first was 'the differential' -the time difference between Notre Dame's first and fifth place 
see RYAN, page 11 
Male presence alters SMC flag football 
Football at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a popular pastime, whether it's playing for Notre Dame's varsity team, a Notre Dame's men's dorm, a Notre Dame flag football team or a Saint Mary's flag-football team. 
When I arrived on the Saint Mary's campus in the fall of 1985, I was thrilled that I could finally play on a real football team. In the past the closest I came to playing football was being tossed around by my brothers. I was eager to meet new people as well as learn the finer techniques of flag-football, so I quickly joined my hall's flag-football team. 
Playing on the flag-football team more than met my expectations. I appreciated the fact that none of the girls who joined the team were cut. After some intense practices I captured the position of center, and I have played in that spot my entire football career. Three to four times a week our
I team would head for the field in front of our dorm to acquaint ourselves with the plays and the mem­bers of the team. 
The season opened and the teams nervously ap­proached each other, but once the game was un­derway we relaxed and had a great time. We struggled through the season with our share of mis­takes and injuries. I, myself, fumbled a few snaps, but no one took it too seriously. All the teams seemed to enjoy playing despite the weather and occasional bad calls. The entire dorm enjoyed sup­porting the team and the hall spirit as well as the hall rivialries grew. 
The exact number of wins and loses we had seems to escape me, but I do remember suiting up for the championship game. Unfortunately my team was not victorious, yet it had been a good season, so no 
Jane 
Shea n
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
one was disappointed. All the halls gained respect for each other and had fun doing it. Besides playing football there were team socials and lasting friendships to be enjoyed. The next season many old faces returned in addition to a new group of players. It was a similiarly enjoyable season and rny team again managed to lose the championship. 
As another flag-football season begins, the old team will not be regrouping. This fall the Saint Mary's flag-football teams are going co-ed. Now I have nothing against mixed-gender sports, but the teams will lose the hall spirit and comradery. Since I did not play on any of the other Saint Mary's teams, I loved the excitement of playing a team sport that did not require an overabundance of ath­letic skill. 
For many players the co-ed teams will be in­timidating because some of the male ball-hogs might control the games. The co-ed teams will bring a different kind of flag-football to Saint Mary's . I am certain it will be fun and everyone will be able to play on the team that they want, but after playing for two years on the all-girl team I am going to miss the old version. 
The Saint Mary's flag-football teams were changed to co-ed because the interest in the teams seemed to decline by the end of the season. The Saint Mary's co-ed volleyball teams are one of the most popular activities, so naturally a co-ed flag­football team should generate the same sort of par­ticipation. The co-ed teams will be exciting and playing football is great whether one plays with girls, or guys, in the snow. 
If there are any women interested in playing on all-girl teams, then they should try to organize some teams. The all-girl teams could then play against one another and the co-ed teams could do the same. 
Football is all around the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. Many ·people will probablly go to the Notre Dame varsity football game this Saturday. So if you enjoy the game as I do go outside and play with whoever you can round up. 



