--------------------------------------~--~----------------------~-------------~-------­
Wet Christmas
!ACCENT: 1987 Top Ten 
A 60 percent chance of showers today, high in the lower to middle 40s.
IVIEWPOINT: Discovery through service 


DlR
08/15/88 Zl **** NEWS **** EXPEDITE **** 
SPECIAL COLLECTIONS HESBURGH L IE:RA.f;'Y NOT~E LAME IN

-..--~---...;;;;;;;:=::;::: 
VOL. XXI, NO. 67 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Wall street 'whiz kid' convicted in $1.3 billion scheme 
Associated Press Ernest Grunebaum, were con­
victed of conspiracy to defraud 
NEW YORK -A one-time the Internal Revenue Service 
Wall Street whiz kid whose tax­and other federal tax counts in 
shelter services were used by a scheme that prosecutors said 
Andy Warhol, Michael Landon enabled clients to claim $350 
and other celebrities was con­million in phony tax deduc­
victed Thursday in what a pros­tions. 
ecutor said was the biggest tax Atkins, 33, faces up to 86 
fraud case in U.S. history. years in prison and a $145,000 
Charles Atkins and two as­fine for the 28 counts he was sociates, William Hack and convicted of, said the prosecu-

Reagan speaks on summit, arms 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -As Gorbac­

hev's jetliner climbed into the 
sky, Reagan addressed the na­
tion from the Oval Office, 
saying they had made 
"dramatic movement" on 
arms control and vowing to 
press ahead with his Star Wars 
program. 
The summit was crowned by 

the signing Tuesday of a treaty 
to eliminate U.S. and Soviet 
intermediate-range nuclear 
missiles. 
Reagan said the summit 

produced "some very limited 
movement" on human rights 
and said he "spoke very can­
didly" to Gorbachev in urging 
a Soviet pullout from Afghanis­
tan. 
While saying they made progress toward reductions in strategic arms, Reagan said, "I made it clear that our SDI program (Star Wars) will con­tinue and that when we have a defense ready to deploy, we will do so. " 
The two leaders issued strik­ingly similar summations of their talks, standing under umbrellas in the rain outside the White House. 
"This summit has been a clear success," said Reagan. Gorbachev said, "A good deal has been accomplished." 
Details on their discussions were just beginning to emerge. 
One U.S. official, insisting on anonymity in remarks to hundreds of reporters, said the 
United States preserved the 
right for broad testing of the 
Star Wars program, even 
though Congress has imposed 
some restrictions on the mis­
sile defense system, which the 
administration calls the strate­
gic defense initiative. 
In exchange, the United States agreed to adhere to the 1972 Anti-Ballistie Missile Treaty for a period of time yet to be negotiated, the official said. However, the official said it would not constrain the pro­gram. 
Gorbachev acknowledged the ABM treaty permits re­search and development and "if necessary, tests" author­ized by the pact. He said there was progress in setting the in­dividual categories of nuclear weapons each side would retain after cuts of approximately 50 percent in each side's arsenals. 
The leaders agreed to hold another summit, their fourth, in Moscow in 1988 in the first half of the year, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. 
An administration official said, "it might be possible with hard work" to have a strategic arms pact ready for signing in Moscow, but said a summit meeting would be held nonethe­less. 
At his news conference, Gor­bachev said the superpowers are emerging from "the long drawn-out confrontation" of the past four decades. 
tor, assistant U.S. attorney Stuart Abrams. Hack, 62, faces up to 14 years and $30,000 in fines, and Grunebaum, 52, up to 44 years and $70,000 in fines. 
The investors included Postmaster General Preston Tisch; his brother, CBS presi­dent Laurence Tisch; actors Sidney Poitier and the late Lorne Greene; and television producer Norman Lear. None was charged with any crime, but Abrams said they could be held liable for back taxes and civil penalties. 

Atkins, the son of former Ashland Oil Co. chairman Orin Atkins, took Wall Street by storm in the early 1980s with a series of tax shelters and in­vestment partnerships. 
Prosecutl.<S claimed his group of tax shelters, known collectively as The Securities Groups, engaged in "prear­ranged, rigged and fraudulent" transactions be­tween 1978 and 1982. 
Those losses generated more than $350 million in bogus tax deductions for the clients, prosecutors said. Abrams said IRS officials believed the scheme was ''the largest tax fraud case in U.S. history." 

Dreaming of a white. . . 

Residents of Breen-Phillips get into the holiday spirit. students escape the pressure of finals for an hour or Decking the halls is a favorite study break and helps so. 
Lobbyist accused of cover-up 
Associated Press jury was a part of it" to counter 
allegations he used his long as­
WASHINGTON -Lobbyist sociation with Reagan to getMichael Deaver gave false tes­six-figure lobbying contracts, timony to bury allegations he independent counsel Whitneyimproperly traded on his influ­Seymour told jurors in closing ence with President Reagan, arguments at Deaver's trial. the prosecutor in the former Deaver, a close friend of both 
White House aide's perjury the president and Nancytrial told jurors Thursday. Reagan, also lied to spare them Deaver "started on a plan of any embarrassment or hurt, deliberate cover-up, and per-the prosecutor said. 
Gunman's revenge killed 43 on plane 
Associated Press 
CAYUCOS, Calif. -A fired airline worker furious over his dismissal boarded a jet carry­ing a gun, and possibly ex­plosives, to kill his supervisor and wrote him a death message on an airsickness bag, the FBI and court documents disclosed Thursday. 
"Hi Ray, I think its sort of ironical that we end up like this," read the unsigned mes­sage, which authorities say was written by David Burke to Raymond Thomson. "I ask for some leniency for my family, remember. Well I got none and you'll get none." 
Investigators found the chill­ing message written on an air­sickness bag at the site where Pacific Southwest plane crashed. All 43 people aboard were killed. 
A multipart affidavit filed in Los Angeles Federal Court before and after a search war­rant was obtained for the Long Beach home of Burke, 35, con­cludes that "there is evidence to believe that David Burke was involved in the destruction of PSA flight 1771." 
Burke worked 14 years for USAir, parent company of PSA, but he was fired as a Los Angeles customer service agent on Nov. 19 after he was filmed by a hidden camera while allegedly stealing less than $100 from flight cocktail sales. 
In a visit to San Francisco on an unspecified November date, Burke borrowed from friend and fellow USAir worker Joseph Drabik a .44-caliber Magnum Smith and Wesson handgun and 12 rounds of am­munition. FBI agents traced the gun back to Drabik, who said he had loaned it to Burke, the affidavit states. 

The affidavit by FBI special agent Kevin Kelly, alleged "Burke harbored resentment against the USAir station manager Raymond Thomson 
see PLANE, page 8 

"If the world knew the way he was using his relationship with them to entice these clients.".". it probably would have broken their hearts," Seymour said. 
In his closing statement, defense attorney Herbert Mil­ler argued that it "would be ridiculous and the height of fol-
see LOBBY, page 7 
Have a Merry Christmas 
This is the last issue of The Ob· server before the Christmas holiday. The Observer will resume publica· tion Thursday, Jan. 14. 


~-----------------------------------~--------~------~ 
• 

page 2 
In Brief 
Helping out Letterman got a telephone operator a free trip to New York City for her efforts. Shelly Scott, of West Mifflin, assisted Letterman in his repeated attempts to reach a Leningrad hotel during Tuesday's taping of his "Late Night With David Letterman" program on NBC. Letterman was hoping to offer someone at the hotel, anyone, a free trip to New York City in honor of this week's summit. The hotel operator hung up so Letterman offered the trip to Scott. -The Observer 
Congressman Bill Nelson, who flew in the space shuttle, said a new Soviet-U.S. space initative would be announced by President Reagan, but said Thursday night that his statement was based on expectations, not fact. Reagan made no such announcement. Nelson, chairman of the House subcommittee on space, said he had been lobbying both the White House and the Soviets for two years in hopes of starting some joint space activitity. ­
The Observer 


Of Interest 
Winter bike storage will take place on Monday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the ticket office, gate 14, of the football stadium. -The Observer 
Any sophomore interested. in working _on _the sophomore committee for JPW can piCk up an apphcatwn in the Office of Student Activities on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. The deadline for submitting completed applications has been extended to Monday at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
A faculty organ recital featuring Craig Cramer will take place Sunday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The free concert is sponsored by the music department. -The Observer 
Videotaped mock interviews will be offered Jan. 18 to 22 by the Career and Placement Services Office. Sign-ups are open to juniors, seniors, and graduate stu­dents and are available now in the Career and Placement Services Office, lower level of the library. Students will be interviewed by employer representatives on videotape and be provided a critique of their interviewing skills. In the past, sign-up spots have filled fast. -The Observer 
Reservations for the faculty workshop on Jan. 8 are going on now. The workshop, sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, will feature Otto Maduro giving the keynote address, "Education: What For? A Latin Amer­ican Challenge to U.S. Higher Education." Call 239-5319 for reservations. -The Observer 
The Glee Club Christmas concert will be tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. No ticket is required. -The Observer 
A French mass will be celebrated at 4 p.m. Sunday in the log chapel. The mass is sponsored by Le Cercle Francais. -The Observer 
Emaus, a community with the mentally handicapped, will meet at Moreau Seminary on Sunday at 2 p.m. All will participate in the liturgy of the mass followed by a coffee hour. -The Observer 
The Snickers new music search semi-finals can be heard Saturday night at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. The contest will feature sixteen of the country's best un­signed bands. -The Observer 
Financial Aid Forms for 1988-89 are available in the Financial Aid Office for those students who did not receive one in the mail. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. . . . Lisa Tugman Design Assistant . . . . Bernadette Shilts Typesetter .. . .. T.E. News Editor...... .. Cathy Stacy Copy Editor..... .. Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor... . . . Marty Strasen Viewpoint Copy Editor... Matt Slaughter Viewpoint Layout . . . .. . Julie Ryan Accent Copy ~ditor ...... .. Beth Cornwell 

Tile ~(USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dwiaa exam Uld vacation periods. Tile at.ner is published by tbe students or tbe Univenity or NOire Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed ror S40 per year (S25 per semesta') by writina Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lodia.Da 46SS6. 
Tile ~is a member or Tile .u.odllled rr-. All reproduction ri&hts are raerved. 
Accent Layout..... .. ......... Michelle Dall Layout Staff.......... .. .. . Annette Rowland Typist... . ........ Cathy Hayes ND Day Editors .... .............. Greg Lucas SMC Day Editor .......... Suzanne Devine Photographer...... .. .. ... ... Todd Tucker S!otman ... . ......... James S. Riley Assistant Slotman .... ChrisP. Donnelly 

Friday, December 11, 1987
The Observer 

Christmas fools too soon forget their gifts 
I know it's Christmas time just as well as anyone. I should be writing one of those Me_rry Kevin Christmas columns but that would be fa1rly hypocritical. . Becker 
Before we get to Christmas we have to get through finals. Although most people around Editor-in-Chief 


here are managing holiday smiles, I have to do .....-J•!!!!!...B!!!fillil!!!!!!!!!!!!!!..-------, 
some serious studying before I start feeling 


student does well, the exams are great. Other-'------=------------'-~~ 
wise, it is deadly. 
Next Thursday when I walk into my oral ex­am, I would like to have the luxury of reciting a poem before the proceedings start. As a mat­ter of fact, this poem would be a perfect gift for all professors during finals week. Therefore, I would like to run the following and dedicate it to all PLS students. 
The Fool's Prayer 
The royal feast was done; the King Sought some new sport to banish care, And to his jester cried: "Sir fool, Kneel now, and make for us a prayer!" 
The jester doffed his cap and bells And stood the mocking court before; They could not see the bitter smile Behind the painted grin he wore. 
He bowed his head, and bent his knee Upon the monarch's silken stool; His pleading voice arose: "0 Lord, Be merciful to me, a fool! 
"No pity, Lord, could change the heart From red with wrong to white as wool; The rod must heal the sin: but, Lord, Be merciful to me, a fool! 

'"Tis not by guilt the onward sweep Of truth and right, 0 Lord, we stay; 'Tis by our follies that so long We hold the earth from heaven away. 
These clumsy feet, still in the mire, Go crushing blossoms without end; These hard, well-meaning hands we thrust Among the heart-strings of a friend. 
"The ill-timed truth we might have kept-Who knows how sharp it pierced and stung? The word we had not sense to say-Who knows how grandly it had rung? 
"Our faults no tenderness should ask, 
The chastening stripes must cleanse them all; But for our blunders--oh in shame 
Before the eyes of heaven we fall. 
"Earth bears no balsam for mistakes; Men crown the knave and scourge the tool That did his will; but Thou, 0 Lord, Be merciful to me, a fool!" 
The room was hushed; in silence rose 
The King, and sought his gardens cool, And walked apart, and murmured low, 
"Be merciful to me, a fool!" 
-Edward R. Sill 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 

$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits worth as much as 525,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benefits are prm·ided for one purpose: to edm."ate and trc~in qualified young men and women to serve as commissioned officers in the Navv. 
·'lbe :\a\·y pays for tuition. textbooks, instructional fa..-s, and gives you an allowanc~ of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. L"pon grc~duation and completion of requirements, you'll become an important pan of the Na\'y ad\·enture as a Na\'y oflicer. 
Call your Na\'y representaU\'C for more information on this challenging and rcwardin_g_program. 
For more information call Lieutenant Commander Ttm Wieand at 239-7274 or stop by the Navy ROTC office in the ROTC building. 
NAVY~OFFICER. 


Friday, December 11, 1987 
The Observer page 3 



NO Security promotes 'tie one on' campaign 


Freshmen to be allowed cars 
By JIM RILEY 
News Editor 
Freshmen have been given conditional permission to have cars on campus second semes­ter as in the past, but they may be limited to certain parking lots. 
''At this time it looks as though freshmen will be as­signed to parking areas south of the stadium near the alumni­senior club," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
Johnson said it was unlikely that any freshmen would be as­signed to park in D-2 because of lack of space in that lot. 
The Office of Student Mfairs 
We're looking for a Freshman 
Orientation Chairperson for next year. 
Applications are available at the 
Student Government Secretary's Office on the 2nd Floor of Lafortune. They must be returned to the Student Government Office between 8:30-4:30 
by Friday, December 11. Thank you, _C~?ifiJd/51~
fjD 
~l!~I1LL~


~J~ ~~~9. ~~ 
10 

J 29403511 A 10 
traditionally extends parking privileges to freshmen for the second semester after a peti­tion by the Freshman Advisory Council, according to Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. 
Freshmen were scheduled to have received a dean's newsletter this week which out­lines the conditions under which freshmen may bring cars, according to the Fresh­man Year of Studies Office. The conditions include that the freshman must have a first se­mester grade point average of at least 2.0, must register the car with Security, and must fol­low the directives of Security and duLac. Any freshman on disciplinary probation will not have parking privileges. 
The newsletter also outlines conditions under which fresh­men may lose driving privileges if they commit alcohol-related driving offen­ses. The conditions mentioned there are in fact superceded by the stricter sanctions of the University's new policy re­garding driving under the in­fluence, Tyson said. Sanctions for the first offense include the forfeiture of all campus driving and parking privileges while the student is enrolled at Notre Dame. 
Special to the Observer 
The holiday season has tradition~Jly been a time of increased alcohol related ac­cidents, but Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Se­curity, has hopes that students can make a new commitment to driving sober this Christmas. 
"This holiday season, I hope everyone will tie one on," said .Rakow. Rakow said he doesn't mean this in the traditional sense--by boozing it up and then driving. On the contrary, Rakow said he wants Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff to "have a safe holiday season by making a commit­ment to driving sober." 

J 29403511 A 
WAsmsnToN.n.c. 

1 0 
"Tie one on," said Rakow, "means fasten a red ribbon to your vehicle's outside rearview mirror, door han­dle or antenna as a sign--and a reminder--of the commit­ment to drive sober through­out the holidays. 
Notre Dame Security Offi­cers will be at the dining halls to pass out free red rib­bons and information about the "tie one on" campaign. They will also distribute in­formation about how to sponsor alcohol free parties during the holiday. 
Ribbons and information will also be available at the Security Office, the main and the east gate Dec. 15. 

BuyaprinterwithyourMacintoshandconservepaper: 
AMacintoshTM personalcomputerand an ofpaper )0011 save will have alovely green glowwith with avariety of financing options. We feel compelled to 
'!~~:1 ImageWriterTMII printer Presidents on itSo here's the deal: Youll save abundle tell }UU, though, that adeal like this can't last forever.* So 
.~ will save you hours of ofcash when }UU purchase an ImageWriter nprinter it's agood idea to see }UUr campus microcomputer cen­time. Not to mention along with )Uur choice of aMacintosh Plus or a ter today. And join the paper conservation movement 
"' · · gallonsofcorrection fluid and Macintosh SE. Eitherway)OOll be able to turn out beau-·~ reams ofpaper. And, if)00 buy both now, the first ream tifully prepared papers. And well even try to help )UU The pcMe" to be your~TM 

·---------------------------~----------------------------~--~------~----~ 

Friday, December 11, 1987 

nouncing lhe 
Grand Opening Of The World's Greatest 

usic &Video Store 
Super Store-Wide Sale 


Peaches Music & Video 
Friday & Saturday Only 

Indian Ridge Plaza 
Open 'Iii Midnight 
Mishawaka 
~---------­
Thousands of Items at Reduced Prices!!! Free T-Shirts 
to the first 100 customers on Friday moming. 
'1 Friday & Saturday, lJ'::j A.....~~ 10 pm to Midnight Only, ~ 
Every CD 
in Stock 
$JJ.2 
Single album discs only. Imports excluded. Limit 6. 
Hundreds of CBS cassettes to choose from including: 
0 Adam & the Anti 0 Journey 0 PsyC'he<Wilc Fura 0 Aeroamllh 0 Judal Prieet 0 Quiet Riot 0 P•t Ben1t1r 0 KllnUI 0 R.E.O. Speedwagon 0 Chartie Oanie4a Bend 0 Huey Lewia & the News 0 Simon & Garfunkel 0 ChicaQo 0 Lovert oy 0 Bruce Springateen 0 Dead or Alive · 0 Men et Work 0 Survtvor 0 Neil Otamond 0 Eddie Money 0 ·n1 Tu-y 0 Bob Dylan 0 Aldo Novo 0 Luther Vllndrooo 0 Ewth, Wind & Fire 0 Ted NiJ9et11 0 StotVIe Roy Vaughan 0 Billy Idol 0 Ozzy Osbourne 0 Whom! 0 Billy Joat 0 Pink Floyd 0 Pout Young 
...ishawaka!
Mow tn ... 
s784 Grape ••· Indian RWte ~· 
l'l\fl) '17\ .QCI6 .. 
'nlousands of CasseHes and LP's 
On Sale 
$5.49..~ 
Cassette or LP · $5.49 Cassette or LP · $5.49 Cassette or LP · S5.99 Compact D1sc · $12.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 Compact DISc . S12 99 
Cassette or LP · $5.99 Cassette or LP · S5.99 Cassette or LP · $5.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 Compact Disc. $12 99 
\()!Iff\{, !Ill. I 1111 "ol \ 
~:~..~:·~~
!lo-t ... -.­
........ 
~ 
c....tte or LP • $5.99 Cauette or LP · $5.99 Cassette or LP · $8.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 Compact Disc· $12.99 
~-!·· 

'nlousands of 
Compact Discs On Sale 
$J2.99w 
Single album discs only. $2.00 off all imports and other regularly priced CO's. Regular prices must be $10.00 or higher. 
Tape 10-Pack 
Includes FREE XLII-$ 90 
recording tape. 
SJ.79~ 
Sale Prices Good 11wu 11/21/87. 


Friday, December 11, 1987 page 5
The Observer 

ND survey finds opposite~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
sexes study differently 
By KATHY MCKEE News Staff 
The results of a recent stu­dent survey showed no corre­lation between students' SAT scores, grade point averages, and study habits, but it did show some differences be­tween the study habits of men and of women. 
Sophomores Brian Maggio and Bill Rudnik conducted the survey for a project in their sta­tistics class. They sampled 120 random students, comparing their SAT scores, GPA, and number of study hours per week. They wanted to find out, by comparing the three vari­ables, if the lower SAT scorer had to study more in order to maintain the same GPA as the higher scoring student and if 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 

Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition wt otrer you a special discount. 
II 
4 apartments per 
buil4ing, on 65 
spacious acres 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details 
277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
the amount of hours a student 
studied had a bearing on his 
GPA. 
But Maggio and Rudnik said 
they basically found no corre­
lation amongst the three vari­
ables. A person entering col­
lege with a 1400 SAT score, as 
opposed to a person with a 1000 
SAT, had no greater advantage 
over the lower scoring student. 
They did, however, find some 
other interesting results. Wo­
men tended to have slightly 
lower SAT scores than men but 
had slightly higher GPA's and 
studied more. 
Women's mean SAT was 
1217, they studied approxi­
mately 20.7 hours per week, 
and they had an average 
cumulative GPA of 2.99. The 
men's mean SAT was 1236, they 
studied approximately 18.7 
hours per week, and they had 
an average cumulative GPA of 
2.98. 
Maggio said an increased 50 point SAT score only raised the GPA .01. 
Maggio and Rudnik said they 
more factors had to be taken into consideration when evaluating the students. 



Free. In 30 minutes or $3 off. 
How do you get a custom-made, freshly-baked pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less? Just pick up the phone and call Domino's Pizza! 
You'llget a piping hot pizza, covered with our special sauce, bubbling with Real~ cheese, and smothered with your favorite toppings. And you'll get it in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! Call Domino's Pizza today . 

1 Monday and Tuesday, December 14 and 15 I
I 10" Cheese Pizza $3.99 I 
Get a 10" cheese pizza for only $3.99 ~ith additional toppings at $1.00 each. Good only Monday and I Tuesday. No coupon necessary. Tax not Included. Good at location listed. I 
Wednesday and Thursday, December 16 and 17 I
~--------------------------------· 
I Thick Crust Pizza $4.99I Get a 12" thick crust pizza with extra cheese for only $4.99. Good only Wednesday and Thursday. No I1 coupon necessary. Tax not included. Good at location listed. 1 
Friday thru Sunday, December 18-20

1 I--------------------------------.
One For the Road 
I

1 Get a 12" pizza with one topping and two cans of Coke for $5.99. Good only Friday thru Sunday. No coupon 1 necessary. Tax not included. Good at location listed. I
I 

Holidays prime time for crime 
By CHRIS JULKA Assistant News Editor 
You'd better watch out if you're an off-campus stu­dent leaving behind valu­ables during the upcoming Christmas season, said Sgt. Larry Hostetler of the South Bend Police Department. 
Hundreds of dollars in stolen goods are reported each Christmas season, ac­cording to Hostetler. The number of thefts are ''at least double" that of any other time during the year, he said. 
"One third to one half of off-campus students are going to come back from home after Christmas and find nothing," said Hostet­ler. 
Capt. Patrick Cottrell of the East Sector of the South Bend Police Department cited three reasons for the crime increase. "First, there are fewer hours of daylight," he noted, "so thieves won't be as noticed as easily."
"Also, it's colder and win-

NO'S PIZZA 
DELIVERS® 
Call us: 277-2151 
Plaza 23 Center, 1835 South Bend Ave. 

II. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
DELIVERS. FREE. 

dows are not open. As a result, people don't hear as much as when their neigh­bors' homes are being bro­ken into." 
"Third, of course, there's the holiday season, so there are more things in the house that can be stolen and more people away from home on vacation," he said. 
Notre Dame student apartments are particularly targeted by thieves, said Councilwoman Ann Puzzello who compared them to pinatas just waiting to be broken into. "The idea is that Notre Dame people are rich," she said. 
Puzzello did not dismiss resentment at students' per­ceived wealth as a motivat­ing factor. Thieves may think students "won't miss what is stolen because their fathers can always buy them a new one anyway." 
The probability of theft is roughly the same for anyone residing in South Bend, regardless of where he or she lives, said Hostetler. "There's no place safe anymore," he said. 
For residences closer to campus, the likelihood of being robbed is about five percent greater, however, Hostetler added. 
Cottrell, Hostetler and Puzzello all said that the best protection against theft is moving valuables left in South Bend to a surveilled storage area. 
A trustworthy neighbor­hood may be able to offer such a storage area, said Cottrell. 
"I'm surprised that the University doesn't have such a storage," said Hos­tetler. 
Puzzello advises that off­campus students contact the Northeast Neighborhood Center, a city funded civic organization. "I know that they would do anything to help. They are very upset (about the thefts) them­selves." 
"I would ask students to tell somebody when they're leaving and make sure win­dows are locked," said Puz­zello. 

I,
:: 
' 
'i 
esc helps faculty 'mission' to educate 

~pa~g~e~6----------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~se~N~e~r------------------------------------~F~rid~a~y., December11, 1987 
By GINA CAMARENA 
News Staff 
To help Notre Dame faculty better understand the educa­tional needs of students, the Center for Social Concerns pro­vides an annual workshop for professors to "integrate ideas of teaching and research," said Associate Director Kathleen Maas Weigert. 
The one-day workshop, said Weigert, "provides the oppor­tunity for faculty to meet other 

,. 
I 
faculty from different depart­

,·,-ments to discuss areas of com­
'1 mon concern." The idea is for faculty members to become better acquainted so they can facilitate their "mission" to meet the challenges of the stu­dents. Too often professors are "under the pressure to spe­
.I 
cialize and be an expert in one area and are not able to think abut how to (improve teaching methods)," Weigert said. She added that the workshop promotes a "reflective, sup­portive environment in a struc­tured way." 
This year's workshop will take place on Jan. 8 from 9 
Bishops say 
condoms 
fight AIDS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. Roman Catholic bishops acknowledged Thursday that some people do not adhere to the church's teachings on sexuality and said they would tolerate educa­tional programs that describe how condoms may prevent the spread of AIDS. 
"We are not promoting the use of prophylactics," the church leaders stressed in a statement on AIDS. Church teaching considers condoms unacceptable as a form of birth control. 
The bishops also urged com­passion for AIDS sufferers. They denounced the violence against gay men and lesbians that has escalated since AIDS became a national issue and called on medical workers, fu­neral directors and landlords to avoid discrimination against AIDS victims. 
a.m.-1:30 p.m. at the esc and will feature guest speaker Otto Maduro, a Venezuelen philosopher-sociologist. 
Maduro will open the forum with a 90-minute talk entitled "Education: What For? A Latin American Challenge to 
U.S. Higher Education." After Maduro's address, small group discussions will center around the general theme, "The Uni­versity andfor Social Change?" A luncheon will fol­low the closing summary and final comments. 
Otto Maduro is a visiting pro­
fessor at the Maryknoll School 
of Theology and has taught at 
universities in Central, South 
and North America with two 
doctorates from Louvain 
(Belgium) in philosophy and 
sociology. He has also written 
several books and articles. 
The faculty's goal is to form 
positive, influencial ways of 
teaching students. This mis­
sion, Weigert explained, is a 
response to the 1983 PACE 
Report issued to former Uni­
versity President Theodore 
Hesburgh on the "priorities 
and commitments for excel­
lence." The report promotes 
the sense of an enriched educa­
tion by influencial factors--the 
faculty. By establishing a 
family-type environment 
among the faculty, Weigert 
hopes they can better relate to the educational needs of the students. 


Study habitat 

Jim Porter, Jesilyn Barnes and Jim Toth do some around to lend a hand and munchies to ease the socialized studying in LaFortune Student Center. stress. Even studying Latin isn't so bad when friends are Friday, December 11, 1987 


The Observer page 7 
Anderson's captivity Arias accepts Nobel Prize 
marked by 1,OOOth day 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Friends and relatives of Terry An­derson, the longest-held foreign hostage in Lebanon, marked his 1,000th day in captivity today in an emo­tional ceremony on Capitol Hill. 
"We Americans have not forgotten the hostages," said Carmella LaSpada, an organizer of the event and the head of No Greater Love, a humanitarian organiza­tion that works to support families directly affected by war and terrorism. 
The hour-long ceremony attracted members of Congress, U.S. officials, former hostages and rela­tives of the 21 foreigners in captivity in Lebanon. 
Anderson's 1,000th day as a hostage coincided with the United Nations' Interna­tional Human Rights Day. 
Phyllis Kaminsky, direc­tor of the U.N. information office, read a message from Javier Perez de Cuellar, the 
U.N. general secretary, ex­pressing sympathy for the hostages and their families. 
"The U.N. condemns this abhorrent practice" of taking hostages and has "censured the actions of all persons who take hostages, whatever their motives," the message said. 
Anderson, the chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, was kidnapped March 16, 1985. The 40-year-old jour­nalist is among the 21 foreig­ners, including seven other Americans, missing in Lebanon. Two of the foreig­ners have remained uniden­tified. 
Walter Mears, the AP's executive editor, said An­derson has endured suffer­ing, being blindfolded and kept in chains. His kidnap­pers have rarely commun­icated with the outside world. 
"They don't allow him to speak or write, compound­ing the brutality of his im­prisonment for a man who has made communication of truth his life's work," Mears said. 


Happy 19th Birthday 
on December 17th John! 
Love, Mom and Dad 
WHAT'S THE NEXT BEST TiliNG TO A CARIBBEAN VACATION? 
A -~·Tanning Giftpack! 
You can give someone a place in the sun for only $25.00. Our pre­wrapped gihpack in­cludes agift certificate for 1 0 tanning sessions and a TanPro Skin Care Kit to promote a beautiful, healthy-look­
ing tan.  
I  -WITH COuPON -A 140 Value!  - - ,l  
I  TANNING GIFTPACK  I  

!,..._<:~!! s2soo i 
4 
1:i::;~~~oN<olf• ~-I slrrHOff~N ---!Check ;our ..J 
I I local phone 
1 SHAMPOO, CUT 1 listing for & BLOWDRY I the Fiesta
I . Reg. S9.99 
Qlfe<Mp.rosiM!B t 1 ~~~~.:~~;:!:'ott~ -~ft?.r4.:_ ..J1 neares you. 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway -Costa Rican President Oscar Arias ac­cepted the 1987 Nobel Peace prize Thursday, saying he hoped it would boost the chances of success for the Central American peace plan for which it was awarded. 
Arias called on the super­powers to let Central Americans resolve their own problems. "In the name of God, at least they should leave us in peace," he said. 
At a white-tie ceremony in Stockholm, Sweden, mean-
Lobby 
continued from page 1 
ly" for Deaver to deliberately lie under oath while "the focus of five or six investigations" by the House panel, the grand jury, the General Accounting Office and news organzations. 
Deaver also knew there would be reams of White House phone logs, schedules and other documents that would dispute 
Personals 
continued from page 12 
LOOK OUT ARIZONA! Di L. is coming to the "Valley of the Sun" this New Years! What will happen when 
East meets West? Stay Tuned... 
PAT'S NOT COOL! he doesn't listen he thinks I'm Donna he spit on Hugh's floor he insists on hearing "the end" he didn't go to Hugh's party 0 he only visits when he needs a place to sleep 
•••Maureen Nolen-• 
•••Meui'HII Nolen••• Just wanted to say Happy 21st now since we'll all be home sweet home on Dec.30. But you know that on that date someone in Seoul will do a Tequilla shot in your honor! So have a great one, because you're a very special friend (couldn't have transferee without you!) This samester's been a blast and I hope you're still willing to party with me even though I'm still only --shhhl 
Love always, Liz 
•••Maureen Nolan··· Hope you have a great 21st on Dec. 30! I'm so glad I met you and your buddy. You're the best friends I could ask for. At least one of us will be legal! The other two will find a way! 
Love, Annette 

while, King Carl XVI Gusaf Arias, 46, rece1vmg his handed the Nobel prize in award at a less formal cere­literature to exiled Soviet poet mony at Oslo University, said Joseph Brodsky and gave seven the prestige of the Nobel prize other laureates their awards should enhance the prosepects for economics, physics, for the Guatemala accord, medicine and chemistry. which was signed Aug. 7 by 
Breaking from ceremony, himself and the presidents of the King strode across the blue-Nicaragua, El Salvador, Hon­carpeted stage to hand the duras and Guatemala. medal and certificate of award The plan calls for cease-fires, to Charles Pedersen, an 83-amnesties for political year-old retired American prisoners, and democratic chemist. Pedersen, one of the reforms. It also called for an oldest laureates in the 86-year end to outside interference, a history of the prize, took a few theme Arias voiced again as he halting steps from his chair to accepted the 23-carat Nobel accept the prize. medallion. 
any lies he might try to tell, cause he didn't try to pressure Miller said. former colleagues during brief 
''Anybody in the White House phone calls or meetings. would know there is a paper "You've seen the prosecutor, trail of what you do and what you know he would have in­you've done," he said. dieted Mike Deaver 15 times 
Miller accused Seymour of over and be pleased to do it," "prosecutorial overreaching," Miller said. by charging Deaver with lying But Seymour said Deaver about contacts he honestly merely had to mention to his couldn't rP"all. former government colleagues 
The defense lawyer argued that he was interested in a par­that Deaver wasn't charged ticular issue to get their atten­with ethics law violations be-tion. 
Rider wanlee to Central NJ. Leaving Dec. 1 8. Call x4388. 
Pumpkin, You can take the orange out of the hair but you can't take the spunk out of the kid. Looking forward to life with you. See you in Joisey. Love always, The Sewer Rat. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS Tina Kathleen Paul Johnny 0 Mike Brian Tim Mark Hank Hank Kathy Missy Megan Amy Jeannette WE LOVE YOU! Bridget & Kristin 
..... .............. ....... Steve:! can't wait to be French with you!Only 90 days to go! With all my hear1,someone who misses you in Angers 
I NEED RIDERS TO FLA. or polnta b.­tween for X-MAS BREAKIIJ Will share expenses. I still have room for 3. Please call Kevin x1 368 
It's HERBIE the dentist, not Hermie 
Happy 21st Birthday from all your family and friends in Delaware! 

Happy 21st Michael P. 
(He's that metal kid) 
D ATTENTION RUDOLPH FANS DON'T WAIT UNTIL DECEMBER 15 SEE "HERBIE THE MISFIT ELP'IN PERSON ROOM 259 ZAHM 
··································· .......................... D MERRY CHRISTMAS C Andrea. Elizabeth, Tiffany, Kathleen, MaryKate, Katy & Q.C. Good luck on finals and have a good breaklll Love, Kris and Kathy 
Revenge Nothing! Football is all that matters and The BLITZ reigns! GO B-P! 
MERRY CHRISTMAS to Matt, Emily end Dannyfl 
Warmest wishes to all my friends in Decatur. I hope the holidays are happy and full of funl Happy New Year! 
Love, Cathy 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE MOST WONDERFUL BROTHERS IN THE WORLDffl 
H•ppy Birthday Eric f Happy Birthday Mlcheell 
I can't waH to come homa and hug you both NINE tlmaa eachfl Lava, Cathy 
Pooh, Don1 Kamchakka too much tonight. I hear it does Iunny things to you. Heppy 
21st birthday!! Rachel and Jodi 
·························· 
Sandy, Merry Christmas, I'll see you in Dallas. Remember: Money is no object. 
Mark 
.... ............................... Pooh, Don't have too much fun with the honey. 
Thanks for such a fun semester. Love, "The Passion Kid" 
........................... 
To: ED· O,iJROID,PAULIE,FAGAN,GREG and all the rest of our buddies­YOU know who you are!! MERRY CHRISTMAS and 
GOOD LUCK on your finals! Love. PATII-JACKIE-KATHY 
···•····· ........................... 
To the man who will HAVE CEOs: Com­ments. criticisms and suggest1ons heve been well taken thus far. Hope you dance better than you edit. Think about ill Still working on the best poss1ble production... 
PLEASE!PLEASE1If you took a ceramic pot that wasn't yours out of the art room, please put it back. It was going to be a special gift 
······· 
A FINAL PRAYER As I lay me down to rest, A pile of books upon my chest. If I die before I wake, That's one last test I'll have to take. 
.. ···················· ...... . Course descript1on: Shop 102: Covers how to jump a battery. Also what happens when someone tells you to get your battery chargee and you don't listen. Instructor: Prof. S. Cerimele 
MERRY CHRISTMAS DR. MACEDONIA YOURS IN N.D., BILL ............................................................... SOPHOMORES, SOPHOMORES SOP· HOMORES, SOPHOMORES SOP­HOMORES, SOPHOMORES LAST DAY YES LAST DAY LAST DAY YES LAST DAY SKI TRIP SIGN-UPS STILL SOME 
ROOM LEFT SIGN-UP IN OFFICE BE· 
TWEEN 2·4 TODAY,NOW DON'T FOR­
GET YOUR $25 SOPHS. SOPHS, 
SOPHS SOPHS, SOPHS. SOPHS 
No Appointment • Ever! 


page 8 The Observer Friday, December 11, 1987 
~~------------------------------------~~~~----------------------------~~----~--­
( 
I ' i 
' 
~r 
.\;<_ .... ~_ '­
•,1. 
Lawrence Mulcahy goes through the security check bags in the coming days, as students head for the at the Hesburgh Library on Thursday. The Notre library in observance of finals week. 
Dame Security guard will be checking out more book-
Security Beat 

'1 
Tuesday, December 8 
11 a.m. A pair of sunglasses were found at the Rolfs Aquatic Center and turned into the Security office at gate 6A of the JACC. 
9:38 p.m. A Mishawaka resident reported that her billfold was stolen from the JACC arena between 8:30 and 9:25p.m. Her loss is estimated at $225. 
9:50 p.m. A Goshen resident re­ported that her billfold was stolen from the JACC arena between 7:25 and 9:30p.m. Her loss is estimated at $275. 
Wednesday, December 9 
12:22 a.m. A Coldwater, Michigan resident reported that she lost her billfold in the JACC arena at about 9:45p.m. on Dec. 8. Her loss is esti­mated at 77. 
Plane 
continued from page 1 
regarding his dis· <>al by Thomson," and the men had a meeting at 12:30 p.m. the day of the crash. After that meeting, Burke bought a one­way ticket for the PSA flight. 
Both Burke and Thomson died in the crash. Burke was identified Thursday by a print taken from a finger found at the crash site. 
Bretzing said that if Burke had survived the crash, he would have faced charges of air piracy and murder. 
Experts have said it was un­likely a handgun could cause enough damage to bring down the airliner unless the crew were disabled. 
But Kelly stated in his af­fidavit that while the exact cause of the crash is not known, Don Llorente of the National Transportation Safety Board had told another FBI agent that "on the basis of the dispersal of charred documents from PSA 'flight 1771 spread over a seven-mile swath, the probabil­ity exists that the aircraft came apart at a higher altitude due to possible explosion, which would not have originated from a bullet." 
Detonators and explosive devices were among the FBI agents' list of things to look for when searching Burke's home, but the affidavit said no such items were recovered. 
"There is no evidence that there were any problems with the plane or the engines," NTSB spokeswoman Rachel 
9:20 a.m. A South Bend resident was issued at citation by Security for driving without a license and travel­ing 27 m.p.h. over the speed limit on Douglas Road. 
3 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported that his bookbag was stolen from the South Dining Hall at about 
11:30 p.m. on Dec. 8. His loss is es­timated at $50. 
3:51 a.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported vandalism to several win­dows and screens in the hall. The suspects were seen fleeing the area, but have not been identified. Damage estimates are unknown. 
4 p.m. An Elkhart resident re­ported that she lost her billfold from the JACC arena between 7:10 and 9:25p.m. on Dec. 8. Her loss is esti­mated at $25. 
Halterman said . Thursday as the agency began pulling its crews from the crash site. 
Halterman said plane's flight data recorder was extensively damaged and it was not yet known what information could be obtained from it. The recor­
der could provide information on airspeed, engine perfor-responded, "I'm the problem." 
r ••••••••••••••_., 
THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A 
I 

AND REGULAR FRIES I FOR ONLY $1.79 I 
Good al all partiCipallng Wendy's Not vahd w1th I 
any other offer PleasE' present coupon when 
ordenng One coupon per customer vtsd Bacon. 
Cheese and Tax extra 
1 
Best Burgers • In the Business.,.,. • 
I OfFEI EXPIRES IANUAIY z, 1988 •
................. 

· 
6:20 p.m. A Lyon's Hall resident reported that her bookbag was stolen from the Bookstore lobby betweeen 
4:30 and 5 p.m. Her loss is estimated at $50. 
8:15p.m. An Illinois resident was issued a citation by Security for traveling 18 m.p.h. over the speed limit on Juniper Road. 
8:40 p.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Security for traveling 20 m.p.h. over the speed limit on Juniper Road. 
Thursday, December 10 
3:10 p.m. An off-campus student reported leaving her white leather pocketbook at the Main Gate bus shelter. Her loss is estimated at $80. 
9:07p.m. A Pasquerilla East res­ident reported that her bookbag was stolen from the B line of the North Dining Hall between 6: 15 and 6:45 
p.m. Her loss is estimated at $121. 
mance, and movement of aircraft control mechanisms. 
Also Thursday, CBS news quoted sources as saying the cockpit voice recording for the doomed PSA flight quoted a flight attendant as saying: "we've got a problem here." 
Another voice then 

Soviets challenge'openness' to rights 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Activists who or­ganized a human rights semi­nar to test the new Soviet "openness" got official warnings Thursday that it was illegal and found the meeting hall they had rented closed for a "sanitary day." 
Sponsors of the seminar said many foreign guests could not get visas. 
By contrast, Pushkin Square and the House of Union were filled by official groups holding approved rallies on Interna­tional Human Rights Day. 
Alexander Rubchenko, whose unofficial organization tries to build trust between the United States and Soviet Union, said about 20 police officers detained him and seven other members for several hours when they left an apartment for Pushkin Square to hold their own demonstration. 
The unofficial seminar came the day after Soviet leader Mik­hail Gorbachev defended So­viet human rights policies in a talk with U.S. journalists in Washington. 
Four members of the U.S. house of Representatives and a Czech dissident received per­
• 

mission to travel to Moscow for the seminar sponsored by Press Club Glasnost, named for Gorbachev's policy of greater openness in Soviet so­ciety. 
Lef Timofeyev, the organizer of the seminar, said more foreign guests had been ex­pected from the United States, Poland and West Germany, but they had been refused Soviet visas. 
Activists who were planning to travel to Moscow from Leningrad, Lithuania, and the Ukrainian city of Lvov were detained or warned against going, he said. 
About 20 Moscow organizers were told the seminar was ille­gal by officials who said they were from the procurator's of­fice, several of the organizers said. The officials went to the organizers' homes, they said. 
Scores of participants and Western journalists gathered in the cold and blowing snow outside the banquet hall in far northern Moscow that had been rented for the opening session only to find it closed for a "sanitary day." 
Wholesale Prices -IBM ' Compatibles 
•IBMTM 
XT & AT Cofr4)atible MicrocorJl)Uters 

• 
Cofr4)1ete systems starting at $669 including monitor 

• 
Full line of component parts & accessories 

• 
See our system at NO Comp. Ctr. Micro Demo Lab COMTALK COMPUTER SYSTEMS 


271..()444 

#1 6910 N. Gumwood-Gran er, IN 

Viewpoint

Friday, December 11 , 1987 page 9 
Learn about yourself and about others 
It is difficult to relate the magical joy I experienced on my Summer Service Project. The Atlanta SSP consisted of six weeks at the Village of St. Joseph where I taught and just spent time with behaviorally disordered children, and two weeks at Marion Manor, a personal care home for the elderly. Each posi­tion was rewarding, trying, sad, and influential. If you're looking for some­thing similiar, then eight weeks could not be better spent than doing a Sum­mer Service Project. 
David Schmitt 
guest column 
My situation was unique as my home 
and friends were in New Jersey or South 
Bend and I went to Atlanta alone with­
out knowing a soul. This at first worried 
me, but it soon became an advantage. 
I found myself really becoming in­
volved with the elderly, and especially 
the children. And as a result, I became 
very involved with learning about 
myself and what I had to offer to people. 
The typical day at the Village of St. 
Joseph began at 9:30 when I had my 
first class. I would teach the children 
(ages 6 to 16) some basic science skills 
or just entertain them. You see, one 
purpose of classes during the summer 
was just to keep the children occupied 
in the morning -and if they learned 
something, that was all the better. No 
tests or pressure, and thus no previous 
teaching experience is necessary. The 
reason the children should be kept "oc­
cupied" is that these kids had little 
parenting and even less attention from 
their parents (or step-parents) due to 
reasons that varied from drug abuse to 
divorce to child and sexual abuse in the 
family. The children really don't know 
how to behave, that is sit still or stay 
quiet, or they can't behave due to physi­
cal or emotional complications like hy­
peractivity. I found my patience pushed 
to the limit and my sincerity stretched 
too far, yet with each moment, with 
each child, my patience and sincerity 
for the children grew with magical joy. 
Returning to the typical day, a lunch 
break after classes was welcomed, and 
at 3:30 the fun began again. The 
children, weather permitting and free 
of punishments, would play in the pool 
until 4:30. Now, I was free to do what 
I wished after 12:30. Yet, what I wished 
to do by the end of the first week was 
Doonesbury 
to spend time with the children who needed attention so desperately. Coach­ing divers, being a punching bag, or a submarine commander were a few of the roles I enjoyed with the boys and girls in the pool. And, I got a tan while doing it! 
At dinner, sometimes I ate with the boys in my cottage, a small dorm-like facility with my two-room apartment and two 16 year-old boys (normally, there are ten during the school year) and a cottage supervisor. Or, more of­ten, I dined with the Sisters in charge of the Village. They were gracious hos­tesses. 
Nighttime came and ended with ac­tivities ranging from volleyball, a trip to the mall, softball, or a movie. The children slept at the Village Sunday through Thursday nights and went home on the weekends. One thing I wished for while in Atlanta was that the parents of the children attend a similar camp during the week, training them to be responsible and loving par­ents, since the children rarely returned on Sunday night in good moods. 
You won't learn facts or skills in eight weeks about children or social work or even about the tragedies of modern life while performing a project. But what you will learn are discoveries about yourself that could remain hidden for years. With each day, with each child, I discovered a radiant confidence that manifested itself in a self-assured sin­cerity and love for the children. The children mirrored my feelings and ac­tions with genuine gifts of affection and friendship. It was quite an experience. 
But, without a doubt, the best dis­covery while at the Village was the joy and love that could be exchanged be­tween child and adult when they care about one another. Do a project simply to enjoy and experience this happening. 
After six weeks and sad goodbyes, I left the Village for Marion Manor. My duties at the personal care home were less defined than at the Village, and my activities ranged from assisting resi­dents on daily walks to making a photo album for a soon-to-be-senile resident to handyman and stock boy. 
One resident, Ruth, who was confined to a wheelchair would often have long conversations about anything under the sun, and especially God, drugs, and foreign languages. I was her new Spanish tutor since her old one, a former resident, had just passed away. One day, she handed me an envelope 
HE/!$ THe AWR£95. IT'S CASUAL.. Ne'RE TRYING 70J(£I;P 7}{1; 81~r¥ftS 51/rlPJ.e. ~ 
PARI!NT5 Jl5Tov~ n; I»>'T YOU THIN!<'? 
and in it was a simple necklace with a Madonna as a pendant. It meant so much to Ruth that she could give me her little gift. I hope I accepted it in such a way as to please her. The neck­lace has little practical use for me but I won't forget it like last year's Christmas gifts. On my last day, I was able to come up with a large print SpanislvEnglish dictionary and give it to Ruth. 
The residents there were not aging so poorly as to require a nursing home, yet most had hearing and walking prob­lems along with other complications. There was no typical day at the Manor and this was one nice feature about working there. 
However, the nicest events were the ones inside me. I found a previously unknown compassion and concern for people as a result of the sad situations of the lonely, aging residents. 
My grandmother recently fell victim to glaucoma, and she and I have struck up a new friendship because of her troubles and perhaps because of my ex­perience at the Manor. As I stated before, the best events of the SSP occur within yourself as an understanding of things greater than school, money, or partying come into view. 

This is difficult for me to write since my memories of the SSP are so special and meaningful that not to mention one is a real insult to those who created those memories for me. So, my final advice for anyone thinking of a project would be to ask yourself if you have ever worked with the elderly or with children or with any other needy people; if the answer is "no", then a Summer Service Project is for you. From your commitment of helping others, you will unconsciously, almost selfishly, discover secrets about your­self, and if your commitment deepens, the deeper and more useful your dis­coveries will be. 
David J. Schmitt is a senior in the Col­lege of Science. 
P.O. Box Q 
rest of the class. Few graduate in theArticle on blacks upper percentile of their class." Well, this is true; however, the author left
needs clarification 
Dear Editor: 
After reading the article "One in four Notre Dame blacks won't finish," I felt the need to write this letter. As a major contributor to the article, I want to clear up any misunderstandings sur­rounding my comments. It is therefore necessary for me to clarify my position with regard to that article. To ac­complish this, I will review a few of my statements used in the article. 
First, let's examine the following statement; "They (meaning black stu­dents) must deal with stereotypes about being on financial aid and teach­ers giving them breaks." Many people took this to mean these things occurred. This statement simply says, that is a perception that many majority stu­dents feel is true about black students. That perception is incorrect, and un­founded. That belief does cause stress when applied through conversation. 
Another statement that deserves at­tention is "Academically black stu­dents generally don't do as well as the 
Garry Trudeau 


out the many reasons given. The most prominent being the effects of racism on classroom performance. In other words many times it's not simply the lack of academic ability, but, external stress that plays a major role in lower grade point averages for black stu­dents. 
Finally, I must take issue with the title "One in four blacks won't finish." It seems to rr..e that a 75% graduation rate is pretty good. That title makes it seem so negative. If you have any ques­tions about what I am saying, compare us with other institutions. You will find that we stack up favorably. 
The intent of this letter is not to imply that there aren't problems at our insti­tution. I simply believe that if you are serious about presenting the problems, the method used for this article is not the way. Thank you for your attention. 
Kenneth B. Durgans Minority Student Affairs Director. Dec. 9, 1987 
Quote of the Day 

"The sign of Christmas Is a star, a light In darkness. See It not outside yourself, but shining In the heaven within." 
"A Course in Miracles" 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief ....... . ............. Kevin Becker Business Manager . . . . . . ............. Brian Murray Managing Editor... . . . . . ...... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

News Editor ....... . ....... Chris Bednarski Advertis1ng Manager ................ . Melinda Chapleau News Editor ... . ..... Jim Riley Production Manager... . ........ Mehssa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... . .......Chris Murphy Projects Manager... . . . ...... Mark Mclaugh~n
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 

Sports Editor .. . . . Dennis Corngan Systems Manager . . . ......... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Accent Editor ... . ..... Michael Naughton Controller... .. ...... Tracy Schindelethe administration of either Institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as 

Saint Mary's Editor.. .. . . Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager . .. . . . . .. Laura Stanton
possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 

Photo Editor .... . .J1m Carroll 
is ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 

Founded Nowtmber 3, 1988 
---,------
Acce
page 10 
Spend your spare Christm~ 
r: 
fl 
•' 
~: 
I 
I 
il I i: 
,, 
·l 
' 
' 
t, 
'I 
fi 
our 
ANN SEIFERT accent writer 
1. Brave Words-The Chills 

Found What I'm Looking !"or" is moving. especially when considers ali the past and 
•n.r"''""'•'t successes of U2. "Run­ing To Stand Still" is about as to perfection as a song n get: it is emotional and It beautiful. The Joshua Tree 
in 1987 that good can still make it to the of the Billboard charts. 

Love & Rockets post-Bauhaus trio really hit big with this, their third al-It contains the huge hit New Tale To Tell" and more mysterious songs like "Rain Bird" and "The Light." Each song is catchy and always, full of incredibly and meaningful lyrics. 
•T'"~··~ guys sound very psyc­ic, but with an acoustic 
which Is very appealing just plain GOOD! Drone 
4. Darklands-The Jesus and 

Mary Chain William and Jim Reid have 
the second album from Jesus and Mary Chain, but record demonstrates such 

-...-~n.>rlo>nt'"' and power that a would have a tough knowing it. "Happy When Rains" is fast and the guitars loud, but there is virtually feedback anywhere on the 
m. We can hear the vocals a welcome change from 
last album. A very strong , with no weak spots. Check out. 

5. The Ideal Copy-Wire Everybody thought Wire was 
for good. They appeared back in 1977 with an album titled Pink Flag. which was years ahead of its time. Then nothing. Then some solo proj­ects. And The Ideal 
critics op ten album~ 
KRIS MURPHY accent writer 
I. The Smiths-Strangeways 
Here We Come The last Smiths album and a fitting swan song because it presents the Smiths at their best. Morrissey sings tales of numbing depression ("Last Night I Dreamt That Somebody Loved Me"), death ("Death of A Disco Dancer"), greed ("Paint a Vulgar Picture") and nihilism ("I Won't Share You") but still manages to be funny ("Girlfriend in A Coma.") With its subject matter Strangeways should sound ugly but Johnny Marr's soaring melodies, under· stated guitar solos and string sections make it a candy coated bitter pill. 
2. R.E.M-Document 
R.E.M recovers from last year's weak Lifes Rich Pageant by ddivering a set of focused, 
most successful single, an up­beat club hit. However, tlie al­bum is far from a "one-hit­wonder" as songs like "Ambitious" and "Point of Col­lapse" show. The Wire sound is heavy on the guitar and heavy on the unique vocals of Colin Newman. It's really something. I highly recommend this one. 
6. Pleased To Meet Me-The 
_ Replacements On their sixth album, The Replacements broke a lot of new ground. They used a new guitar player and actually added horns on a song or two. A far cry from the noisy punk band of the early 1980's, Paul Westerberg and friends have literally matured on vinyl here. 
They haven't com­pletely lost touch with the sound of their past, however, as fast, hard rocking songs like "I.O.U." and "Red Red Wine" reveal. 
7. Strangeways Here We 
Come-The Smiths A sad story is the demise of The Smiths in 1987. The su­perb guitarist Johnny Marr split and bassist Andy Roarke died, which meant that Strangeways would be the last vinyl offering from The Smiths forever. Good thing it proved to be such a neat album. Everything on it was typical Smiths, which is of course atypical of most music. Long melancholy song titles, overdone crooning from Morris­sey, and interesting guitar from 
Marr. 
B. Document-R.E.M. On their seventh released piece of vinyl, R.E.M. finally gets the attention they have deserved all along. "It's the End of the World As We Know It" has some bizarre lyrics, but this Is the charm of R.E.M.: they are very weird and no one ever really understands ali their songs completely. This seems to be the way Michael Stipe, the lead vocalist wants it. 
R.E.M. didn't expect this album 
pop the songs are quirky and unique. The vocals come through like never before. 
9. Gematria-Peter Himmelman I doubt any of you have heard of Peter Himmelman before, because his name is not yet well-known. It soon will be as people discover his wonderful voice and his two albums out on the Island label. The fast songs on Gematria are almost overpowering. especially the first cut, when Himmelman proclaims, "I feel young today!" "Salt and Ashes" is a slower ballad, and It provokes a lot of emotion. Himmelman's voice 
abounds with feeling. Simply wonderful. 
I 0. Robbie Robertson-
Rabble Robertson This singer worked a lot with The Band in the 1960's and then dropped out of the music scene for a long time. In fact this LP is his first release in 
years. The songs have been produced by Daniel Lanais, the man who produced The Tree for U2 and Peter Gabriel's So. Robertson's sound is sort of a cross between these two. His voice comes through wen, and he is backed several well­known artists, including U2, 
Overall, this LP is well-crafted and effective. The great vocals prove to be the highlight. 


~s~......................................................a........... 
nt 
page 11 

:tscashon 
; of 1987 
decidedly political bent. They Bono's moving and terrifying crack the top ten for the first stories of heroin addiction. The 
time with "The One I Love", an Edge might be the world's best 
acidic love song, and pay living guitarist and "Bullet the 
homage to Bob Dylan with "It's Blue Sky" sounds like Hendrix. 
the End Of The World As We Jimmy Page and a pack of Ban­Know It (and I feel fine)". One shees locked in a room with a of their best-right up with Mur­Stratocaster. How are they mur and Chronic Town. going to top themselves after 
becoming (groan) the biggest 

3. Big Black-Songs About band in the world? Steve Albini and crew come from Chicago apd this is the 6. Squirrelbait-Skag Heaven hardest, most intense album of Why do all the good bands the year. Songs about the psyc­break up? This bunch of guitar hotic, perverted underbelly of totin' college age kids signed America are set to roaring out with a potent mix of punk guitars and a mangled drum tempos, incredible vocals and machine. "Bad Penny" and the plenty of true rock and roll en­"Power of Independent Truck­ergy. "Kid Dynamite", "Virgil's ing" are guarnateed to give you Return" and "Kick the Kat" go bad dreams. through your skull like a freight 
train. 

4. Husker Du-Warehouse: 
Songs and Stories 7. XTC-Skylarking Husker Du's second double Andy Partridge and his band album in three years found the pay homage to the Beatles with band dabbling in sixties pop a concept album about the En­and psychedelia while still glish Summer and the life cycle maintaining their patented of man and nature. Sounds velocity and volume. "Could heavy but it isn't. XTC still You Be The One" is their most writes perfect pop songs and hummable tune yet, and "Bed "Earn Enough For Us" and 'The of Nails" proves that the Hus­Meeting Place" prove that. Bird kers are still adept at the songs, rustling trees and other claustrophobic anguish of their assorted sound effects give the Zen Arcade period. album its distinct pastoral ap­
peal. 

5. U2-The Joshua Tree Overplayed? Heck yeah, but 8. Led Zeppelin-still a great album. "I Still Physical Graffiti Haven't Found What I'm Several of 1987's top selling Looking For" could be the U2 bands like Whitesnake and the manifesto and "Running To Cult shamelessly ripped off 
i5iiiitaiiniidiili5itilill•"•isiii.iiaiiiniioiithileiiri.oiililf___.. Zeppelin in both song structure ("Still of the Night", "Love Removal Machine") and Robert Plant's vocal style (every note that David Coverdale sang). That doesn't mean that they ever managed to equal Zep­pelin. In fact, they came off as pale imitations with fancy hair 

cuts. For a taste of the real thing go back to 1976 and lis­ten to "Custard Pie", "The Rover", the monumental "Kash­mir" and the thundering blues rip-off "In My Time of Dying." 
9. The Jesus and Mary Chain­
-Darklands The Reid brothers tone down 
the distortion and volume of their past work revealing the archetypal sixties pop song tha was there all along. LSD, sexual obsession and rainy days are the main topics, and .vhen Jim Reid sings "''d break my back for you" in "Happy When It Rains" you know he's found true love. Atmospheric British pop at its grungy best. 
I 0. Metallica-Garage Days 
Re-Revislted America·s oesl speed-metal band bangs out the rawest kind of heavy metal by doing five of their favorite covers with no production. "Last caress-Green Hell" is the best of bunch, sporting a twisted sense of humor and the kind of tempos that make the heavy metal old guard sound positively geriatric. Raw, exciting and aut-


Letter to Pan 

Darby O'Gill 
Letters from a Sometimes-Lonely Dog 
heard a loud lamentation: "The great god Pan is dead." Legend places this happening at the hour at which Christ died on the Cross. Does this mean that as far as humans are con­cerned, Pan is dead? I mean, humans are always starting these silly rumors. A century ago, one of them wrote: "Do you hear the little bell ringing? They are bringing the sacra­ments to a dying God." Humans have always been in a rush to bury the gods. 
Milton, I hope, got it right. In a poem called "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity," he wrote: "The shepherds on the lawn 1 Or ere the point of dawn /Sat simply chatting in a rustic row; 
I Full little thought they than 1 
Than the mighty Pan I Was 
kindly come to live with them 
below... " 
Are you the same patron of shepherds that humans wor­ship as the Lord, or are there many shepherds watchful, in a variety of ministries, over their flocks? Are there many religions, each of them true in a different way; or is there only one religion in which You, the only shepherd, wearing a multi-· plicity of hats, deal with crea· tures according to their differ­ing needs? Among earth's creatures, humans are the ones who sin, therefore they need a shepherd who lays down his life to save them. The dumb animals-those who aren't Intel· ligent like humans-live accor­ding to the law of the instincts You gave them. None of them would knowingly or willingly disobey the divine will. Jesus did not have to die for them. 
Religion is too hard for a mere cocker spaniel to figure out. But the trees and the grass, the birds and the furry beasts know that the great god Pan is alive and well. He is the piper at the gates of dawn, just as Mr. Kenneth Grahame says He is in "The Wind in the Wil­lows", the book that the wild things love as their gospel. It's harder to appreciate a religion of nature when you've grown up domesticated in a Christian home. 
If you're wondering where an uneducated dog learned to quote poetry-I never even finished obedience school-! want to give all the credit to the computer I met; It Is, as they say, programmed for poetry. Notre Dame computers mood, he yells, : "There is one God over the heavens, Darby O'Gill, and one master over the Pequod" -another literary refer­ence, Sir, from "Moby Dick"­"and one breadwinner in 116 Pasquerilla West, and one small dog who will pay attention when he's spoken to, indoors or out." Griffin is not really a tyrant; but he thinks everything should go his way, since he's the boss. 
In addressing You, Father Pan, I'm not sure if I'm return­ing to the god of my ancestors, or whether You're the God whom Roman Catholics wor­ship under a different title. The Roman catholic God is very fine, and He loves creatures too; many of them went to visit Him on the day of His birth. I made the acquaintance of the catholic God's mother when I was a very young puppy. The boss brought me to her sacred grove in a grotto by the lake, to thank her for sending me to him as a gift. The boss is quite sentimental; as a dumb beast, I don't appreciate sentimentality; but you shepherd gods must discuss such things among yourselves. 
The season has come when humans celebrate their Shep­herd's birthday; and in His name, they try to do nice things for each other. This year, I'm asking your help as I try to do something nice for the boss. Santa Claus Is a mythical character whom humans ask to deliver gifts in their name? Who is this Santa Claus? Is he a pagan spirit, a fallen-away demi-god, or a toy­making hobbit left over from Middle Earth? I hope that You, as the god of all-nature, might be on a wave-length with him. If you are in contact with Mr. Claus, would you ask him to fill the request that I'm making for a gift for the boss? As your servant, I am unworthy-like a lapsed Catholic who has given up the pope-to ask favors. However, when I'm not near the god I should love, I love the God I'm near. 
My request is this: on Decem­ber 17, I will be eight years old, and still celibate; soon, I'll be too old to cut the mustard as the sire of pups. The boss, of course, is a bachelor by choice, out of obedience to the will of the Church. One of us should become a father, and I have no vows to stand In my way. With a dog. It's a cash transaction, and the male's ser­vices are paid for. The stork doesn't bring babies; it's a lark in the night. After that, the boss would be entitled to the pick of the puppy litter. My Christmas gift to him could be my going to the stud farm. Could Santa persuade him to let me go? 

I would love to teach a 
young dog old tricks. It's 
sometimes lonely to be the 
sole representative of your 
kind, a cocker spaniel living by 
himself in a world of people. 
God, so they say, created the world because He was lonely. After creation, humans turned out to be flawed by selfishness, too involved in ego-trips to have time for God. Then God decided to go as a human, into the human world. As a man, He could put His arms around people; they could put their arms around Him. Instead of hugging Him, they hurt Him; and God was lonely one more time. As He was dying, He decided: "If I show them that I love them to the end, later, remembering the Cross, they will understand Me as a God of love. If, finally, they respond to my love, I will be lonely no longer." 
Oh, Sir, Father Pan, far be it from a flea-bitten mutt to try to teach the theology of love to a deity. But did any of those old nature gods, kind and whimsi­cal as they could be, ever let the woodland creatures see how much the gods loved them? 
Yet paternity is not a gift I ask for myself, If It were not for the sake of the curmudgeon who depends on me as a com­panion. I will not be around forever. The original Darby O'Gill died when he was ten; when he went to his rest, I took his place. I have pastoral experiences to pass on like an apostolic succession; believe me, It's not easy to be a priest's dog, starting from scratch. The boss says that one of the drawbacks to being a celibate is that you have no one to leave your watch to when you die. I don't have a watch, but I know a few places where some bones are buried. I know a few places where the bodies are buried; but of course, professionalism seals my muzzle against mentioning 
those, Sir, even to You. I would 
like to see the light in the 
master's eyes, if the pick of a 
litter of mine should come Into 
his life. He would say to Notre 
Dame: "Merry Christmas. Re­
member Darby II and Ill and I 
never said we didn't love you." 
0 Piper at the gates of dawn, the Friend and Guardian, will It be Christmas soon for you as it is for us? Is the great Pan dead, or does He live in the Christ Child's legend as the shepherd of those sheep who never needed redeeming grace? 
Sincerely yours, 
(Master) Darby O'Gill II, on the week before his 8th birthday. 
To Pan, God of All-Nature do The Wind in the Willows The River Bank. England 
near Sir: 
Around here, they say you are dead. They read in the books their poets write: "Pan is dead, great Pan is dead!" Plutarch, they say, explaining why the oracles cease to give answers, tells of passengers on · a ship in the Greek isles who speak many languages. I asked this master model of a pen­
tecostal computer if it could 
talk to me. I tried several 
codes, like DOG and SOB, 
before finding the "K-9" key, 
which worked. My friend the 
computer is writing this letter 
for me now. 
I'm in service to a master named Griffin, a spoiled but lovable priest who thinks he's boss. When he's In a bad 


page 12 The Observer Friday, December 11 . 1987 
n.oe...rNotN Deme offic:e, located on the thtn:t floor of LaFortune Stu­dent c.nt.r, 8CCIIIPb cl...,ftecl ..,.,..,Ill from 10 Lm. until • p.m., Monday ttwougt1 FrtcleJ. 111e a..-Selnt IMry'a office, located on the third floor of .......,Collge Cent•. M:ClePts cla8Hieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thrOugh FrtcleJ. Deedllne for next-ct.y clalalfleda Is 3 p.m. All cluslfleds must
Classifieds be ~. either In pereon Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per fiYe ~~day. 

NOTICES 
l Yt"lNl>'WORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
Wordprocessing· Typing 272-8827 
......................................................... 
TYPING PLLLUP & DELIVERY 277· 7406 
TYPING 277-8131 or 237-11148 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277-2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
t······~c;5~/rou·N·~·-··I· 
to the person who TOOK THE WRONG COAT at SA BAR on WEDNESDAY: n has a name in the back and hunting gloves in the pocket. Please call <3948. 
LOSTIIIIIff..silver necklace wnh small pink, white and blue bird oma· ments .... lost somewhere on north quad (btwn Lewis and D2)1ate Sat. nne . .iffound please call <1 055 Jim. 
LOST AT FLANNER ALL-HALL: Canon Sura Shot Cemera wtname on bottom. If found, Pl•u cell Frank X1424. REWARD$$. 
PLEASE I PLEASE I " you took a ceramic pot that wasn't yours out of the art room, please put nback. It was going to ba a special gilt. 
FOR RENT 
Looking for your own room next semes· ter? Need 1·3 roommates for house, $100-$12!'>tno plus utilities. Call 271· 0758. 
2 BEDAM APT $250 e E 288·7760 
1103 male Housemates needed next se· master SAFE nbhdl LOW rentl287-0753 
Turtle Creek Townhouse needs 1 male roommate. $1 SGtnonth c utilnies. Fur­nished. Call Dan 271-0804. 
LOVELY LARGE FURNISHED HOME, 1034 ALLEN ST., FOR RENT. '88-'89 SCHOOL YEAR. PREFER GRAD STU­DENTS, 5 STUDENTS MAX. 232·2436. 
WANTED: Roommate to share TURTLE CREEK APT.for second semester call Beth at 277-7065 
CAMPUSVIEW APT. FOR RENT SECOND SEMESTER. (FEMALE). IF INTERESTED CALL 283·3958 OR 271­
0952. 
WISH TO SUBLEASE MY APARTMENT. LOCATED AT NOTRE DAME AVE APTS. $125 MO. e UTILITIES. PLEASE CALL SAM AT 287-9770. 
oP.ENiNC3s···'Ar..No...:APrs····i4wrH 
eUTILS CALL 234·8859 
WANTED 
WANT TO EARN $12 FOR JUST WATCHING T.V.? WANT TO EARN $12 FOR DOING YOUR STJJDIES? RELAX IN OUR LAZ'f BOYS AND 00 BOTH! GIVE BLOOD PLASMA AND HELP SAVE A CHILD'S LIFE I BRING THIS AD TO: AMERICAN PLASMA. 515 LIN­COLNWAY WEST. TUES. WED. FRI. SAT. 9:00·5:00 234-6010 
NEED A RIDE TO HOUSTON OR DAL· LAS, OR ANYWHERE CLOSEBY OVER BREAK. CALL PATII £2966. 
NEED RIDE TO NORTH NEW JERSEY FOR X-MAS BREAK. Can leave Friday the 18th. WliNng to share expenses. Call 
Greg -1883. 
WANTED IMMEDIATELY ACCOUNTING M.a.JOR TO SET UP BOOKS FOR SMALL BUSINESS. FOR MORE INFO; PLEASE CALL 287·2300 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER WED. NIGHT WILL SHARE EXPENSES 
CALL CHRIS X1145 
NEED RIDE TO CHI·TOWNII After 5pm Thurs Will share ocat. call Pat at 2384 
I nMd riders to LouiSiana over break. Call Paul 2o10 
FOR SALE 
Chri81maa Trees for Dorm Roomsll Ser­glo'a Sun God Chri81maa Village now ol­
feta artificial -·Checl< out the 1 and 2 fool -·perfect lot dorm .-ns. Get 1111 your lightll and decorations with • atu· dent diaeount, juat ahow ID. Be lUre to -the Noire D11m11 traell Sergio's Sun God Clvialmu Villtlge 1919 SoUh Mic­higM SlrMI South Bend, IN 287·9283 .. EATHER BASKETBALLS-WILSON "JEr-NEVER USEDII $25 -x3692 
COUCH FOR SALE COUCH FOR SALE , GOOD CONDITION CALL 2201 
WATEABED--HEATED $75.00 CHRIS 234-7156 
.............................................. 
HELPIII MUST SELL PLANE TICKETS FOR 2ND SEM. PIEDMONT SUPER SAVERS BETWEEN NEWARK,N.J., AND SOUTH BEND. FOR DETAILS CALL JOE 3804 
······················ ................................ 
NEW AMSTRAD WOAD PROCESSOR WITH PAINTER & SERVICE CON­TRACT $400 CALL: 239·6470 (DAY) 277-8917 (NIGHT) 
··············································· 
1977 TOYOTA CELICA AUTO. GOOD CONDITION. GREAT COLLEGE CAR. ASKING $1500 after 6 pm. 277-9042 
Classic 72VW Bug-New motor&battery­$600 or bb.232-9709 
FRESH BLACK WALNUT MEATS. $6.50t.B. WHILE QUANTlTIES LAST. CALL BETTY 239-5604. 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE: 40 COTION BOWL TICK· ETS, TOGETHER ON 30-VARD LINE. CALL RAY (814) 237·5204. 
Airplane Ticket to San Francisco: leaves 
1Z't6: call 3301. 
······················· 
conoN BOWL -so yd. ln. 8 at s1oo each. Call or LM for Greg at (71 3) 332· 8281. 
PERSONALS 
XMAS GLAMOUR. Give that apeclal guy tha beat gift of all -youraelf ·eln a glamour portrait. Plcturaa by nation­ally publlahed model photographer. Joe Ringer. 287-o813. 
OOME-OPOLY • gfM1 Chrlalmaa glfll 
DOME-QPOLY Available now al NO-SMC Bookatoraa 
OOME-QPOLY The gift for alumni who have avery· thing 
OOME-QPOLY 
MlmiT., 
This is your last personal ...at least from 
me. I'll miss you as much as I miss the 
Sunshine State during a South Bend win­
ter. Take care, and may the coming year 
bring you the best of everything. 
Wnh much love, 
Mark 
Earn up to $5,000 thla echool yur maNiglng on-campua marketing pro­gram• for top nallonal companlaa. Flexible houra. Muat be a Jr., ar., or grad. student. Cell Ka11e or 0.. at 1· 800-582·2121. 
Merry X-Mas C.W. & S.D. 
Thanks for our dinner. 
We'll ba ready for you next semester. 
SOPHOMORES 
SKI TRIP SIGN-UPS NOW 
CLASS OFFICE. STUDENT CENTER 
$25.00 DEPOSIT 
2 -4 P.M. TIL FRI. 11TH 
•••• DON'T MISS IT •••••• 
NEED RIDE to NEW ENGLAND AREA for x-mas (I live in VT, but ~ you can get me to MASS. CT, OR NH, I'd ba happyll) Will share gas and expenses--I can leave wh-ver after WED. call ADS 1284 
Ditchdigger: 
Merry X-Mas. ~·s been a great 1at se­
mester, especially when we're on the 
road. I told you we could neutralize height 
differentials and get jobs. Now. can we 
atert baing crednors instead of debtors? 
Just hand back that Ienning oil, and I'll 
tell you why gum and champagne don't 
mix. Sam 
JAZZ CLASSESIII 
JAZZ CU.SSES!/1 
................................................................ 
JAZZ CLASSESIII SIGN UPS IN THE STUDENT GOVT. OFFICE DEC 10.11 TEACHER FROM JO ANN BRINES SCHOOL OF DANCE-oNLY 40 SPACES $9.00 FIRST MONTH 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR CHRISTMAS BAZAAR SMC CHRISTMAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY 
10-4 
MONDAY 1217-FRIDAY 1Z't1 
Stanford Hd sends Ita congratulations to Heilman winner Tim Brown. 
ATIENTION DOMERS: WISH VICKIE STOLAR$KI A HAPPY 20THII CALL HER AT 284-4124 AND USTEN TO THE WORLD'S FASTEST TALKERI 
TO ALl GHETTO DWELLERS HAVE A ROCKIN' XMAS AND GET READY TO ROLLIN' THE NEW YEAR THANKS FOR EVEAYTHING·SOUIDLIKE 
I need a ride to U of !-Champaign, II. for break. Call Babs 3736 
................................................. 
Top Tltn Reeaona to Fila an FAF: From the Financial Aid Office In the Admlnlatra11on Building 
10. To help your family ftgura out how to pay for your education at Notre Dame 
9. To gal ftnenclal raaourcea eo that you contribute to paying the bill 
8. To rKelve financial aid, you muat prove financial need 
7. 
To have your lndlaNI State Grant ranawed 

8. 
To 1181 a Parklna Loan 


5. To gal a Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) 
4. To 1181 a cempua job 
3. To get your Notre Dame Scholar­ahlpGrant renewed 
2. To afford to go to echool 
1. To gal financial aid for the 198&tl9 academic year, YOU MUST FILE BY FEBRUARY 28, 19881 
CAMPUSVIEW APT. FOR RENT. SECOND SEMESTER. (FEMALE). IF INTERESTED CALL 283·3958 OR 271· 
0952 
.................... . For Sale Cheap: 2 Cotton Bowl Tickets -Whal a Bargain! Call Joe M. at 1213 
CHEERIO FRIENDUESIII Remember thai I still will crave mail (as well as its homonym ... ) 
A bottle of Bailey's Is sure to find its way to you next semester. 
Pebble Beach casualness will forever remain with me. AEB 
CHRIS, HAVE TONS 0' FUN IN GENEVA! WE'LL MISS YOUR FLATS FROM HELL, THOSE AWESOME BARGES TOOl IN FACT, WE ALREADY DO. WE DO, WEDO, WEDOIWELOVE YOU! J, J, & M 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ALBANY OR POINTS ALONG THE WAY. LEAVING FRIDAY DECEMBER 18TH. CALL GINNY X1347. 
t need one more rider to DFW area. Leave early Saturday morning 12·19. Call Carolyn x3864. 
Happy Holidays to all II Amy-Copy Center 
Aider needed to Mpls..St. Paul for X-mas break call Renee x4053 
KEENAN'S SANTA CLAUS You said HOIHOIHOI but you never let me sit on your lap and tell you what you can give me for "CHAIS"tmas. an admiring and prospective "Miss Claus" in the North Quad 
TO MARC: HAVE FUN IN CALIFORNIA. I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A BLAST AT SCHOOL. I'LL MISS YOU. YOU ARE A GREAT GUYII I DID NOT WANT YOU TO STAY HERE ANYWAYI\11 (ha-ha, just kidding) GOOD LUCK NEXT SEMES­TER. LOVE, KATHY. 
··································· 
SECTION FROM HELL Seniors: ~·s been an ugly ,evil & drunken 3 years to­gether, & SO MUCH FUNIII There are no better partiers--or friends..anywhere. I'll miss you next semester & next year. Drink from the blue whale for mel Love, Katy. 
Hey Ya'll, Merry Christmas! Hope every­one's planning on coming down to the Cotton Bowl. Prepare for a bash on New Year's Eve. We're going to have a great time. See you there and good luck on finals. David 
P.S. Mom, you and Dad are also lnvned to our wild bash. 
(to the tune of Happy Birthday) Happy Birthday to Briajuice, He tarts worse than a moose. I know no more words to this song, ~·s raally stupid and getting too long, (you can drop the tune, If you haven't already) Call X3662 to wish him a happy 20th and ~ he's not there, I'll talk to you for awhile. I've got to go get him a real card now. Happy Birthday Pal DG 
P.S. I'm warning you now, don't go to the dining hall this weekend. 
MEUSSA SMITH, I WISH YOU A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY. YOUR ADMIRER 
Valpo Merry X-Mas Enjoy some egg nog 
The Cat 
R'iDE'i:i''Nieoeo..ro·con:oo··eom: 
LEAVING FROM CHICAGO. DETAILS £1720 
si<i'800r'S'4··s:o:ii't:ii:Ns·e:ii··o:iiiis 
272-8689 
..........................................................:ioe 
Happy 4th anni-.ary to my favome 
pllsics geel<-oopa 
genius. I can't wait til breal< so we can 
celebrate when you !alee me out to dinner! 
I love you, 
Heide 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS SEATS ARE STILL AVAILABLE. ANYONE INTERESTED IN AIDING THE BUS SHOULD CALL JOHN 2013 OR 2004 ASAP 
MERRY CHRISTMAS Kimo, Juko, Trimmer, Lurch, Wafer, Shaggy, Woody, Buster Lets dO nup in DallasII 
AB and Palmer 
Hey PhysiCs chicks Merry Christmas! tt's been fun silting be­hind youll See you next samasterllllll 
I need a rider to DALLAS or SAN AN· TONIO Leaving 12-18 Call Jon 2o06 (6-7) 
MARGARET GENEVA: Have a drunk birthday. You are a great friend. I have a blast wnh you. For your birthday I was going to s&t you up next year, but only If you are good. Saturday night should ba Hell Night (I'm hoping). Were you there when they crucified my Lord? Have a great 20th..now you are a woman! Bridgett's: LOCK YOUR DOORSII 
........................................................ RIDE NEEDED TO COTION BOWL FROM CHICAGOSOUTH BEND AREA. CALL ANN AT 284-5335. 
•ATIENTION" UPCOMING EVENTS: ...NEW YEAR ...NEW SEMESTER NEW MAN! PAT COYNE TURNS 21 JAN 61 HAPPY B-DAYII -Molz 
HELP! I NEED A RIDE FROM BUFFALO TOSOUTH BEND ON JAN 12. CALL HEIDI 4-4261 
HELP! I am looking for a ride to Mpi&St.Paul. I can leave Weds. after­noon. Please call Betsy at 4-4326 
ANNO: HAPPY BIATHDAYIIII YOU ARE ALMOST LEGAL. I HOPE THAT YOUR B-DAY IS FUN. WE'LL HAVE TO CELEBRATE IT OVER BREAK. IF CHIPS IS ANY INDICATION OF WHAT IT WILL BE LIKE·. I'M SCARED. RUSH STREET HAD BETIEA BEWAREII!I YOU ARE A GREAT FRIEND. GET READY TO CHUG·A·LUG POO-BEAR!I! LOTS OF LOVE, KATHY, KATHLEEN. M.J., COURTNEY, MOIRA, CHRISSY, AND DOREEN, AND THE GANG. 
CHRISSY CRONIN: HAPPY BIATHDAYIIIIIII YOU ARE A BLAST. I HOPE THAT YOU REMEMBER YOUR B-DAY. STAAT PREPARING FOR SAT· UADAY NIGHT. LOVE, KATHY, KATH· LEEN, M.J., ANNO, MOIRA, AND DOREEN. 
MARC: HAVE FUN IN CA. WATCH OUT FOR BUMPS WHILE SKATE· BOARDING TO SCHOOL. EVERYONE WILL MISS YOUIIII LOVE, SARA AND FRIENDS. 
HEATHER FINLEY, YOU'RE THE ONEill HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO OUR UTILE SONGBIRD. WE LOVE YOUI LOVE, B.P. FIRST-FLOOR FAOSH 
............................... 
Econocard Econocard 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS: TURN IN PROFILES AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS: TURN IN PROFILES AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS: TURN IN PROFILES AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FIRST nYO WEEKS OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS: TURN IN PROFILES AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS BY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS: TURN IN PROFILES AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS IIY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18. 
Top Ten Quotes from Beth Kaiser 1. AJJ the night grew on... 2. Wait a minute­what's a 9? 3. Gimrne a breal< 4. Wake me up for dinner 5. lool<l ~·s 4:44! 6. Hello, Domino's? 7. Like, like, like ... 8. Is that my phone? 9. No. 10.And the rast i8 hiStory. HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY BETHI Love, Kim & Kristin 
HEY GUYS! CALL BETH KAISER AT £2636 AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY ANDY SHIMER, M.D. WE LOVE YOUIII LOVE, 2KSOUARED P.S. More blackmail pey· ment? 
JIM CARROLL 
Merry Chrtstmes HAPPY BIRTHDAY Happy New Year See you in January 

TOP 10 REASONS TO MISS CHRIS BOND.... 10. We just gol used to the smell. 9. There won't ba anyone to talk about human e•crement with. e. Nobody elsa can belch as well as she can. 7. Who else will tell us to "air out that smelly rod." 6. We were beginning to like being petted like dogs. 5. Who else can you cook your toast over at Farley football games? 4. Dillon foodsales might go bankrupt. 3. We won't know whet to dO with the extra couch space. 2. She can make the strangest noises wnh different body perts. 1. She won't ba here. We'll miss you. -Macardel and Larry 
....................... ................................ 
CONGRATULATE CHRIS KNORS 
aka "THE GEEK" 

ON OBTAINING HIS PhDI 
232 7511 
GOTCHAI 

Hey Kathi wnh an I -you know I love youl Soon we'll both ba 21 and back into our natural habitat: Pubs every nightl Merry Christmas! Tim. 
" I could, through mysa", 
sat your spirn free, I'd leave your heart away, see you break, break way. 
To our favorne baboonist, Happy Early Birthday wockado,wockadoll (see, it pays to hint) love, Larissa, Denise, and Mary 
Jan. 5th is Mary Whalen 22nd Bithday Feel Ire to call her collect (312) 998-1574 to wish her well. I know 1 will 
WE NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES. CALL MIKE OR GARY X3625 
Thank You, Ann B. Your notes are only surpassed by your beauty. 
-Your soon-to-be ex-partner in crime 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ALLISON VELDERS II Love, Your Little Brother 
KATHY HOWARD:MEAAY CHAISTMASILOVE,SANTA 
LIZ WADIUMI YO BABY, YO BABY, YO BABY, VOl WHERE HAS THE SEMES· TEA GONE? HAVE A GREAT TIME IN MEXICO, WE'LL MISS YOUI LOVE, FISH AND CHIPS 
KMK (Kenny,Bud) Just Because ... 1) De· lobar 31,1987 2) Knock,Knock.Come ln.Oh-Hey Monk! 3) N·i-c-eiW·W-Well Good! 4) Y-Y·You're Beautiful... f.l'm in L-U·VI5) There was one I? I? 6) The Tent­J.T.-STUFF? 7) Brldglt'a-I.D.'a-The Walk Home. 8) Raln.RoMa.Tha Walk Home. 9) That waa aooo cute ... let'a do It again. 10) Shota?Duckle Fuzz?Doea He? 11) December 5,1987 12) 341·10 112 Hrs. Love, Your Quicksilver Girl ...I'll ba your "dream date" anytime 
............ ......... .. 
TO ALL MY FRIENDS IN LEWIS AND THE TALL MAN AND SHOAT MAN OF 227 SORIN ..Thanks tor a great birthday! Love, KIM 
HEY, HEY, HEY! We would like to say, Allison's Birthday is on the wayl So. be happy and gay From the Pacific Ocean to Chesapeake Bay! Stick around and dOn't stray .... Celebrate MS. VELDEA'S. BIATHDAYIIII love, Debbie, Kathleen, Monika, & Rattiya 
Allison, Kathleen. Debbie, Monika. Hope you guys have a wonderful Christmas! (no, I'm nol going to rhyme this) Oh. my God ... l'm on the computer again I Yeah, right? Love youf..Rattiya 
Merry, Merry ?..mas Edl I almost made that mistake.. Have a fantastic time in 
P.A.II Wonderful wishes for the New Year!! love, Raltiya 
JENNY (ZOMMA), We all hope you have a great time in London next semester. We,ll miss ya alot. WE LOVE YOUIIIIII THE GHETTO 
TO DON­NA,ROBIN,RAQUEL,BECKY,KERAY ANNE,CYNTHIA AND ALL THE OTHER HEARTS I'VE BROKEN...MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEARIIII..LOVE ALWAYS THOMAS B. 
KEVIN EARL-YOU'RE STILL THE BEST FRIEND I'VE EVER HAD. YOU ARE Al­WAYS THERE WHEN I NEED YOU AND I'M SORRY THAT THE REVERSE ISN'T ALWAYS TRUE. BUT PLEASE KNOW THAT I WILL TRULY MISS YOU WHEN YOU'RE NOT HERE. HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A GREAT NEW YEAR! I LOVE YOUI·A.V. 
MERRY CHRISTMASII To the Roomie­Cousins in P.E. Have a great time wnh exams. Go Pittsburgt.Seattlel Luv, Co­lumbus 
Unfortunately, BETSY BAKER will celebrate her next birthday over the holiday break So everyone wiah her a happy birthday before she disappears 
Happy Birthday Bets ..Shekey 
MONDAY IS MEG LAKATOS' BIRTHOAYIII HAVE FUN MEG, BUT BEWARE OF: 1. HOT TUBS 
2. 
INFLATABLE MEN 

3. 
RUM ANO COKES THE IRISH FLU 5. HOOKYS 


6. DOUBLE VOOKA SHOTS IN A2 7,8,9&10 CENSORED ATIENTION ALL ELIGIBLE BAC· 
HELORS 
MONDAY IS MEG LAKATOS' B·DAY, 
CALL HER AT 284·5448 AND WISH 
HER A GOOD ONE 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY MEG .. love,Anne and Susy. 
Se.y, blue eyed, Irish Princess seeks ex· tra ordinary B-day e•perience and no blarney! Call Marianne 284·4364 
........................................................... 
Marianne Ryan-have a wondartul 20th B-day, damnitl Love, Marshmallow Lynard TB1 Cutie 
Marianne Ryan-This one's for you ... wherever you arel Love, Barry 
Maggie Wetterich: You're living proof ... one can not survive on sex, drugs and Rock 'n Rolli Happy B-day, you mess. Love, Lynn 
LEO-HOPE YOU HAVE A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY ON DEC. 25. TOO BAD WE WON'T BE IN N.C. TO CELEBRATE WITH YOUI LOVE JT, KJB, JB, KK 
Hey Mr. Hockey . 

Even Gretzky dOesn't play 
doubleheaders, so take it easy over 
break. I'll just be setting up the next play 
where the ice always me~s and the film 
never goes lo waste. 

Magic 
D-O-D-Dairy D: "Crownie" and your friends want to wish Joe Montalbandoe a Happy 19th Birthday! 
50428 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Let's do "adult" things together, now that 
we're both legal. Nothing dirty, leave thai 
for your laundry! Love, G 
CONGRATULATE CHRIS KNORS aka ''THE GEEK" ON OBTAINING HIS PhD! 232-7511 GOTCHAI 
TOP 9 REASONS TO GO OUT WITH SMAGS WETTERICH ON HER BIRTHDAY (BECAUSE THERE AREN'T TEN) 9. She'll drink your beer & ditch you 8. She'll "k• you to Motel 
6 7. You may get a cheap dale 6. She may get a rul date 5. She'll pau out by 10 o'clock 4. You believe In chaatlty 
3. You won't have lo walt In line 2. She llkea guya In INthar 1. No one aiM will Allin fun, Mega. Happy 20'thll Pat 
THE £1 QUESTION OF 1987 (and yet to ba answered): "So what do we dO NOW?" -Merry Christmas Mimi 
Mr. Low Profile Here's to a few qualities without which, I would only have one name at best. 5) You hke Sam. 4) You can bs on any subject, no metter how mundane. 3) Your knees hurt, but you never gel sick. 2) You al least try to dO tax. 1) You cover. Merry Christmas, and get it in LA. 
I've been known to love more than one person. And I've been shown lhal being kind can hurt someone, some time. 
SHARON MADE ITIII 
SHARON MADE ITIII 
SHARON MADE ITII! 

Sharon Campbell made the Mount St. Dominic basketball team II I All you gor· geous Notre Dame guys please sand oongrats to her at 30 Burnett Ter West Orange NJ 07052 (Sharon is Steve's younger(by a mere two minutes). shorter, and better·looking sister.) 
MELANIE W. 
Thanks for dispelling the myth: 
Nice guys DO finish firstl 
Your (nice) guy 
Its the SEX GODDESS' 20th 8-day Sun­dey. Call 1 322 and wish Chris Butchko a happy onellll Duffy 
CONWAY AND SEDLACK: 
The studio won't be the same without 
you. 
Have fun In London, you Euro-art-fagall 
We'll miss you. 
P.S. licky,licky,lick 
ANN iiiDDLECOM our days are few for caustic lines for cheesy jokes and message rhymes Look out LondOn We're sending some gues!B Tal<e care of them all They coma from the best 
Remember your friends will be remembering you Love you lots, Annll ENJOYI 
ANET 
MARK and PHIL: I'M miss you two, tool Happy Europing! • Love, ANET 
see PERSONALS, page 7 
m 


The Observer I John Studebaker 

Dlondra Toney {21) and the Notre Dame women's basketball team Is off to a quick start under Head Coach Muffet McGraw, and looks to Improve with a busy Christmas break. 
JAZZ CLASSES!! 


sign ups December 11·12 in Student Government Office 
L..---------$9 Ist month_________, 

HAPPY 21st Maureen Nolan (Dec. 30) 


Wish we could be there to party with you! 
We love you!! Liz, Annette, & Robyn 

r::Hi;;;;~;;;;t;t;d;;*l ; ",.. *Meagh~n•Eneel! *! 
I~ .T!aJ~r Z:O: ~ 
il "Tw~nty-One"derjul ·: .· **Years. • ··· 
~ ili 
~ 8 
... 
* Dad, ~j * * 
Christopher ~ [~~ 
::•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• ••••• •• ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• • 0 •••••••••••••••• • ••• • •••••••• ••• •,•••• • •••••••••••••••••••••••~·: 
The Observer page 13 
Face St. Ambrose tomorrow 

Women's ball set for break 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Between now and the end of break, the Notre Dame wo­men's basketball team will look more like cross-country athletes. Not runners, but travelers. 
Currently 4-1, the Irish will try to return from break 11-1, although with road games and top competition, that will not be an easy task. 
The Irish will host St. Ambrose tomorrow and Val­paraiso Saturday, Dec. 19. Then they will take to the road, playing at Indiana Dec. 21 and visiting Virginia Jan. 4 and Miami Jan 7. In between, they will be participating in the Wildcat Christmas Classic in Philadelphia, from Dec. 28-29. 
"It's going to be tough," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "With 17 road games this season, we're going to have to start working on playing well on the road." 
The Irish will be up against jet lag, unfamiliar arenas and unfavorable crowds. Not to mention some pretty tough op­ponents. 
But first, they start off at home against the St. Ambrose Queen Bees, from Davenport, Iowa. The Queen Bees, an NAIA power, are undefeated after seven games this season. The Irish will have to defend St. Ambrose's two main offen­sive threats, 6-0 center Patty Campbell and 5-11 forward Robin Becker. 
The Irish will counter with a strong inside game, of their own, led by 6-2 senior center Sandy Botham and 6-4 junior forward Heidi Bunek. The Irish defense also has looked impres­sive of late, especially consid­ering they held high-powered Oakland to 51 points Wednesday night. 
The Irish take on Valparaiso at home on Dec. 19 for their first meeting since January of 1982. The Irish have not lost to Valpo in eight tries. 
Notre Dame then travels to Bloomington for a game with the Hoosiers. Notre Dame lost 
last year's meeting, 80-72, but 
the Irish won the only other 
meeting between the schools in 
1983. The Hoosiers are led by 
6-2 senior forward Cindy 
Bumgarner. 
Next on the Irish schedule is the Wildcat Christmas Classic. The Irish will face Fairfield in the first round, then take on either Villanova or Siena the next day. 
"We open with Fairfield at 6 on (Dec.) 28th," said McGraw. "So all those fans in Philadel­phia had better show up." 
The Irish then travel south to face nationally-ranked Vir­ginia and the Hurricanes of Miami. The Irish are 0-1 against Virginia and 1-1 against Miami over the years, including a .tough loss to the Hurricanes at home last season. 

"Virginia was ranked eighth in the nation at the start of the season," said McGraw. 
All this happens before the Irish finally return home after semester break for games with Northern Illinois and Syracuse. 
Wrestlers trounce Miami (Ohio) 
Special to The Observer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame wrestling team won its first dual meet of the year with ease, crushing Miami (Ohio) by a 40­3 score on Thursday. 
Eight Irish wrestlers won matches one weight class 
Gifts 
continued from page 20 The Miami Hurricanes ­
Class. But don't worry, Jimmy Johnson always loses on Jan. 1. 
Hurricane coach Jimmy Johnson -A stay in a wind tun­nel. Five to one his hair doesn't higher than usual because Pat Boyd was out with an injury. 
move.  
Syracuse  quarterback  Don  
McPherson -Better luck  next  
time.  

Dave Smith stepped in for Boyd, and lost an 8-2 decision to Jim Nelson at 126 pounds. Andy Radenbaugh earned a pin at his usual 118 pounds. 
Winners at higher weight classes for the Irish were: 
The Florida State Seminoles 
-A two-point conversion. Had they gotten in against the 'Canes, Jimmy &Co. might not be playing for the title. 
All non-Chicago Bears fans ­
Earplugs. Remember 1985? Here we go again. 
The Saint Louis Cardinals ­
Hearing aids. After spending four nights in the Metrodome, what could be better? 
National League MVP Andre 
..
GRAND 
OPENING! 
Fast service, outstanding 
• quality, and low, low prices!
: _,..._SNaM • 
• 2Y2C COPIES : 

: sl-\ xu white 2o* led • of the Kings in the NHL either.
: kl·n•;O·s.. :They can sleep until next year. 

• ft : 
: creat copies. Great people. • 
: 18187 Stote Road 23 : J•Cross from Corktowne Liquors e 
: m-o39s • 
• M-F sat sun : ..: ________;.;!·..;;.;JO=•m:...:-I~Op.c..m--"-=9a=-m-;:<;6pm:;___ _:•::::oo:::,.n-..::!5p::;:_m______,e,._ 
Happy 20th Birthday Stephanie 
May God hold you -It in the palm of .I!.. His Hand ~ 
Love Always, Dad, Mother, Meaghan and Christopher 
Dave Carlin at 134 (17-5), Jerry Durso at 142 (injury default), Ron Wisniewski at 150 (13-6), Todd Layton at 158 (13­2), Mark Gerardi at 167 (8-5), Todd Tomazic at 177 (7-4), Chris Geneser at 190 (21-6 by technical fall) and George Logsdon at heavyweight (by forfeit). 
Dawson -Sorry, this Cubbie got the biggest gift of the year. 

Toronto Blue Jays' outfielder George Bell -A chance to play for a team in the United States. If Bell played in New York, the whole world would know about 
one  of the finest  players  in  
baseball.  
New  York  Yankees'  

manager Billy Martin -An apartment lease that he can easily get out of. He'd better not be building a house. 
New York Yankees' minor­league manager Bucky Dent -A 
use-at-anytime plane ticket to New York. He's the heir appar­
ent. 
Fans of the NHL and NBA 

-Wake-up calls. The action doesn't begin for a few months yet. Oh, don't call the fans of the Knicks, Cavaliers, Spurs and Kings in the NBA or those 
The New York Giants -Wake­up calls. Uh, champs, the Season Started already. 
Th e New Orleans Saints ­

Groceries. Now that they're
Winning, they need tO dO SOme­thing with all those paper bags that their fans wore. 
Sports fans everywhere -A 

merry Christmas. And if you're headed to Dallas, an Aggie skin coat lined with Cotton is the perfect gift for the new year. 
r.-..............~.--.. --·-· 
1 HAPPY 22ND I BIRTHDAY, DAN 
;...-.......~..-..~.-.. -­
l MAY ALL YOURi DREAMS 1
I t
COME TRUE 

~~~~~;L~;;;,1 
L_...f.lli.QL!\Al)'E__j 


-------------------------------------~------------~--.............. 
page 14 The Observer 
Break preview 
Irish face third big test 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor · 
While academic final exams are just around the corner, the Notre Dame basketball team faces its third big test of the early season on Saturday in the form of a rejuvenated DePaul team. 
Rejuvenated in the sense that junior point guard Rod Strick­land is back in uniform after sitting out the Blue Demons' first three games because of academic ineligibility. Strick­land was given the green light from the University on Wed­nesday and responded with 21 points that night against West­ern Michigan. DePaul blew out the Broncos, 94-64. 
"The return of Rod Strick­land instantly makes DePaul a ranked team," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "They've been able to survive without him and now they'll be at full strength. They are looking for credibilty after their opening loss to Pepper­dine, and they can achieve that against Notre Dame." 
The 3-1 Blue Demons were ranked 20th in the AP preseason poll, but dropped out of the polls after the 84-64 loss to Pepperdine and just squek­ing by Niagara, 88-87 in over­time. They also defeated Illi­nois State, 76-55. 
The 3-1 Irish enter the game on a three-game winning streak after victories over Louisville, Boston and Prairie View A&M. The latest AP poll has Notre Dame ranked 19th. 
In their last meeting, the Irish knocked off then-No. 4 DePaul in that February­month-of-upsets-in-the-ACC, 73-62. Notre Dame clinched the game down the stretch with clutch free-throw shooting, hit­ting 19-of-21 on the game. The Blue Demons lost only three games last year. 
DePaul returns four starters from last year's 28-3 team. The big man in the middle, Dallas Comegys, is gone but the Blue Demons still have a formidable cast to battle the Irish. Besides Strickland, DePaul boasts for­ward Terence Greene and. guard Kevin Edwards who are both averaging 23 points per outing in Strickland's absence. Greene's 33 points against Niagara are a career-high. 
At the other forward spot, 6-7 junior Stanley Brundy is scoring 9.3 points and pulling down 9.7 rebounds a game. Senior Kevin Golden, 6-9, holds down the other starting spot, with a 3.3 point and rebound average. As a team, DePaul has held its opponents to a low 
41.2 percent shooting percentage, but it has struggled at the free throw line, hitting 48-of-83 for a .578 
percentage. 
"They're a very talented team," said Phelps. "Brundy is a tremendously strong player inside, and it does not surprise me the numbers that Terence Greene has posted early to pick up the scoring slack from Strickland's ab­sence. To me, though, Edwards is the key. He always sems to be an explosive player in key situations." 
After these five and senior guard Andy Laux, who replaced Strickland during his absence, the Blue Demon bench is young and inexperi­enced. 
"Once they get some of their younger players some time," continued Phelps, "they'll really become a solid team." 
After facing DePaul on Sat­urday, the Irish have a busy holiday schedule. Here's a brief preview of their oppo­nents over the Christmas break. 
• 
VALPARAISO -In their first test after the ones we all take next week, the Irish host the Crusaders of Valpo on Dec. 19. 
Valparaiso returns four starters, including senior for­ward Harry Bell, who averaged 16.9 points last season as he earned first-team Association of Mid-Continent Universities honors. Head coach Tom Smith's squad also has four reserves returning from last year, including senior walk-on Dave McMahon, a South Bend native. Last December, Notre Dame struggled to a 63-50 win in this game after a week off for finals. 
at St. Joseph's (Ind.) -After a break for the Christmas holiday, the Irish will travel to Rensselear, Ind., on Dec. 28 to meet the Pumas of St. Joseph's. The Pumas return two top performers in senior co­captains Stan Kappers and Todd Kennard. The 6-7 Rap­pers poured in 23 points a game last year en route to becoming Great Lakes Valley Conference Player of the Year. He shot an impressive .648 percentage from the field and .804 from the free throw line. Kappers teams with 6-1 guard Todd Kennard who chipped in 20.4 points a game and led St. Joseph's with 83 steals in the 1986-87 capaign. Junior Jerry Alicea is the Pumas three-point threat, hit­ting nearly half of his 19-foot, 9-inch-and-beyond shots last 
season. 
at St. Bonaventure -Notre Dame next will head east to Buffalo to face St. Bonaventure on Dec. 30, which is looking to regain respect after a 5-23 record last season. The Brown Indians return all five starters, including injury-plagued cen­ter Patrick Allen. The 6-9 senior missed nine games last winter with a back ailment, but still managed to claim the team's MVP award with 12.7 points and 7.9 rebounds per out­ing. Swingman Dan Aloi, 6-7, and guards Michael Burnett and Myron Roy all should make an early impact with St. Bonaventure as freshmen. 
at LaSalle-The Irish will play their first game of 1988 at that Philadelphia institution, the Palestra on Jan. 2. LaSalle reached the NIT final last year with a 24-14 overall record and returns four starters to this team. Leading the way will be 6-6 forward Lionel Simmons, a consensus freshman All­American last year after leading all Division I freshmen in scoring and finishing second among freshman rebounders. Simmons is averaging 20.3 points and 9.8 rebounds for the Explorers last year. Tim Leger is LaSalle's other big returning scorer, pouring in 18.7 points a game last season. The 1986-87 Philadelphia high school player of the year, 6-3 guard Doug Overton, joins the Ex­plorers as they search for their fourth consecutive 20-win season. 
at Lafayette -Yet another road trip for Notre Dame as it faces Lafayette on Jan. 4. The Leopards went 16-13 last season, losing 11 games by six points or less and being in every game but one. Sounds familiar. Lafayette returns four starters, led by junior for­ward Otis Ellis who averaged 21 points and 9.4 rebounds a game last year. He should reach the 1,000-point mark for his career by the time the Irish face him. Freshmen Tom Kresge and Bruce Stankavage should see plenty of action in the Leopard backcourt spots. 
at Marquette -Notre Dame heads up to Milwaukee and the Mecca on Jan. 9 to face a very young Marquette team. Second-year head coach Bob Dukiet has seven freshmen and two sophomores on his team. Backcourt experience in the form of 5-11 senior Michael "Pop" Simms and 6-3 sopho­more Michael Smith. 
YALE -Home at last. As stu­dents return to Notre Dame so do the Irish as they face Yale on Wednesday, Jan. 13. The Elis 


r----------------, 

Gift certificates
1 Use this coupon at 1 
Available
I COUNTY MARKET II to redeem $2.00 off our I 

have eight freshmen on this ..­
year's team, but also return the experience of forwards Paul 

GIVE THE GIFT Maley (17.3 points, 7.5 rebounds a game), Eric 
OF A Mitchell (8.8, 3.6) and Matt Whitehead (10.7, 2.5). 
SUNTAN! 

4 or 6 foot giant
1 
·
I b
SU marines
I *orders must 
1 
1 placed 2 days I advance*
I 
~---------------­

~........................ 

Guard Kevin Edwards and the DePaul Blue Demons are the next challenge for the Notre Dame men's basketball team on Saturday. Brian O'Gara previews the action at left. 
The Observer 
The Independentstudent newspaper serving Notre Dome and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editors Typists 
for next semester 
For further Information contact 
Jim Winkler 
at The Obterver (239-5303) 

HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY JACK 
"You stud" 
Love, Cuz 
.....-11!!1111------------------.. 
deli 
I 
I 
Specials:

10 Bed visits for $39.00 be I 5 Booth visits for $12.50 Combo of 3 Bed & 3 Booth for $19.50 in I 277-7026 8 JMSPLAZA 
4609 G...,e U. MIUaw*a 
I mN~HAWAIIAN 
SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
ton sob\
J .._____________________.. 



Brian Montgomery (left) and the Notre Dame hockey team are off to an Impressive 9-2-2 start. The Irish play host to Dayton tonight and Saturday 
The Observer I Mike Moran In the first-ever meetings with the Flyers. Pete Sklko has the details at right. 
15 

Hockey faces UD in weekend series 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team looks to end its longest losing streak of the season -of one game -this weekend against Dayton. Both games, tonight and Saturday night, face off at 7:30 at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish, at 9-2-2, are sitting alone in second place in the American Collegiate Hockey Association after last weekend's split with division­leading Michigan-Dearborn. First-year head coach Ric 
mark the first-ever meeting be­
tween the two teams. The 
games are the first two on 
Dayton's schedule this year. 
"I'd be lying to you if I told you that we really prepared for them," said Schafer. "I know nothing about Dayton except that our junior varsity lost to their team last year. Outside of that we're just preparing for anyone else we'd play." 
Senior captain Mike McNeill leads the Irish in scoring after 13 games with 27 points on nine goals and 18 assists. McNeill needs eight points to tie for lOth on the all-time Notre Dame scoring list. 
Sophomore Bruce Guay's 24 points on 16 goals and eight as­sists places him second this year behind McNeill. 
So far, the fans have been coming out in impressive num­bers to support the Irish. Each home game this season has drawn over 1,000 fans, with last weekend's series with Michigan-Dearborn taking in just short of 2,500. 
Notre Dame has responded by opening with their best start since 1983-84, including a 2-0-2 record in overtime games. 
The Dayton games replace the Alabama-Huntsville series on the Notre Dame schedule. The games with the Chargers will not be made up. 
But two games have been added to break up a month-long gap over Christmas Break. 
The Irish will play Arizona in a two-game series on Jan. 8 and 9. 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11 8:00PM STEPAN CENTER FREE ADMISSION -NO TICKET NECESSARY 
Co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Glee Club & Student 
Ric Schafer 
with his team's efforts thus far. 
"We're playing pretty well," said Schafer. "The guys have a lot on their minds this week, with finals and all. That's un­derstandable, and I think we've had a pretty good week of prac­tice anyway." 
The Flyers may pose a prob­lem for Schafer and the Irish in that the upcoming series will 


• 
Friday, December 11, 1987
page 16 The Observer 
Heisman banquet speaker 

Sports Briefs
Hesburgh wants 'monitoring' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, former president of Notre Dame, said Thursday night that colleges need "an internal monitoring procedure" to clean up "the current mess" in intercol­legiate athletics. 
Father Hesburgh, the fea­tured speaker at the Reisman Trophy banquet, honoring 1987 winner Tim Brown of Notre Dame, endorsed a proposal made last June at the College Football Association's annual meeting by the Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, former executive vice president of Notre Dame. 
Father Hesburgh said the Joyce proposal "could really put teeth in the recent NCAA legislation, which is good, but difficult to enforce. It could for­

! . tify (college) presidents in dif­f ficult positions and assure the public that the sad day of foot­ball and basketball scandals is coming to an abrupt end." "I think the American public is ready for this effective action and would cheer a rebirth of integrity in intercollegiate ath­letics. Can we really clean up the current mess? We will never know if we do not try. Time is running out on us." 
Father Hesburgh said that in many ways, intercollegiate football does not deserve all the national attention it receives becuase of the charge that "amateur athletes have been bought and used by educational institutions, not educated." 
"Athletes represent the col­lege or university in the na­tional limelight for four or five 

Rev. Theodore Hesburgh 
years and are then casually dis­carded without receiving the greatest gift that these institu­tions were created to transmit -a good education and the values that this education implies for one's whole life. 
"In a word, these nonstudent­athletes are schooled by this very process in a complete lack of the very integrity that makes educational institutions splen­did and unique places in our so­ciety. Football has occupied too 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
P.A. :"'IORDE:'Ii
~=~~-:~·~:::~~s.-~~i~::·~:;l··~:·:·~p ll

ll 
734 Bradey Street
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Suite lOA -Dept. 33
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
Davenport, 1:\ 52!103
on pool tables ton1ght. LaFortune. 

I 
li 
I i
1' You Want A Readable Portable? 
NVA aerobics and stretchercise classes will be held be betrayed in this fashion." 
great a place in our culture to 

during finals. Monday and Wednesday, aerobics classes Under Joyce's proposal, a 
will be at 4:30 p.m. and on Tuesday and Thursday, group of monitors would be 
stretchercise and aerobics classes will be held at 4:15p.m. trained under the aegis of the 
All classes will be held in Gym 4 of the JACC. -The Observer NCAA but under the adminis­trative control of a national 
The novice crew will have an important meeting director. The monitors would 
tonight at 6 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hal. All be given confidential access to 
rowers and coxswains for next semester are expected to all pertinent documentation 
attend. Any questions, all Greg 289-0031. -The Observer pertaining to a school's athletic program. 
FAMOUS MAKER REPLICA
"By spending considerable time on the campus, or cam­WATCHES puses, the monitor will quickly 
Rolex Presidential Day Date (gold color face) S95.00 each
perceive potential problems," 

Rolex Date Just -Stainless Steel & Gold (gold color face) S95.00
Hesburgh said. "He or she 
each
should not be looked upon as a 

Cartier Panther Yellow gold band case style St25.00 each
spy but as one commited to the 

Piaget Polo Supreme -St25.00 each integrity of the institution. Gucci (Black leather band on all models l . S65.00 each Their role would be analogous Specify: Face color (black or red and green stripe) and to that of an inspector general Gold case shape: (round or square)in federal services. Movado (black leather band, round gold case. black face) S85.00 
"Needless to say, the moni­each tor should have free access to 

-Best quality reproduction.
the president and enjoy his en­

-!\lade in t:.S.A.
thusiastic support when cor­

-17 jewel Swiss Quartz movement.
rective action is indicated." 

-Adjustable bands.
Hesburgh said the cost of the 

-Glass crystals.
program could be covered by 

-Correct t!lk color.
a small percentage levy on tele­

-Perfect printing on faces.
vision income. 

-Authentic weight. 
He said the CFA's presi­PROMPT DELIVERY -If not satisfied. your money back if returned in its original condition after three days' inspection from 
dents' committee has endorsed 
date of receipt.
the idea and is considering 

ORDER NOW! Send certified check or
having the plan adopted unilat­

money order plus S3 shipping &
erally by the CFA's 65-member 
handling.
schools. 

Specify style and man's or lady's. 
i. 

So readable the characters jwnp off the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible operating system. Here's the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it ... 
Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 
So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most powerful laptop yet. See you soon! 


SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICE: $2499 
Special Holiday Price: 
$1199

Price Good Thru December 31st 
Contact: Brad Koch 277-7720 Jim Hogle (312) 745-2141 
Or products can be seen at Computing Center Demo Lab 
~mtjdata
systems 

Friday, December 11, 1987 
SMC basketball hangs on for win 
By KATHY JENSEN Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team earned a 64-57 victory over Lake Michigan College on Tuesday, pulling away early and holding on for the victory. 
The Belles came out charg­ing Tuesday night, scoring 20 points in the first eight minutes of play and taking a quick 20-5 lead. 
"They played to their fullest potential," said Belles head coach Marvin Wood. "They demonstrated sharp shooting and quick, clean passing. They also displayed excellent deci­sion making." 
The intensity of the first eight minutes was impossible for either team to sustain the rest of the first half, and after several player changes the Belles completed the half with a lead of 38-22. 
Saint Mary's did not fare as well in the second half, they spent as long as five minutes without capitalizing on anv scoring chances. Meanwhile, the ball bounced well for Lake Michigan College, decreasing the Belles considerable point spread to a final score of 64-57. 
Senior Tammye Radke and sophmore Julie Radke led the offensive surge for the Belles. Tammye Radke scored 10 points and added five assists and six rebounds. Julie Radke scored nine points, with five as­sists and three rebounds. 
Strong play was also turneu in by sophmore Amy Boranko, who had six points and six rebounds. 
The Bel!es shot 42 percent and welcomed this strong vic­tory after losing their last two games, both losses. Their record now stands at 3-3. 
The Belles play their last game before break this Satur­day at home against Saint Joseph <Rensselaer). Game time is 2 p.m. 

The Observer page 17 
-

A deal which would send the Los Angeles winter baseball meetings are officially over. See Dodgers' Pedro Guerrero (above) to Detroit for related story below. Kirk Gibson Is still In the works even though the 
Baseball talks conclude 

Bannister wearing Royal blue 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Kansas City Royals acquired left-hander Floyd Bannister from the Chicago White Sox Thursday night for four young pitchers, and Pedro Guerrero, Dave Rig­hetti and Bob Welch remained hot topics as most teams packed and left baseball's win­ter meetings empty-handed. 
The White Sox sent Bannister and minor league infielder Dave Cochrane to Kansas City for right-handers John Davis, Melido Perez and Chuck Mount and left-hander Greg Hibbard. 
Bannister, 32, tied a career­high for victories by going 16-11 with a 3.58 earned run average in 1987. He succeeded despite Chicago's 77-85 record, and im­proved his lifetime mark to 117­128 for 11 seasons. 
"We think Floyd Bannister can help us win a division title, and we had the depth of young 


COTTON BOWL '88 

The Notre Dame Club of Dallas invites all students and friends to attend our Cotton Bowl activities: 
e Cotton Bowl New Year's Eve party, buffet and Pep rally featuring two bands plus the Notre Dame marching band, cheerleaders and speakers. Entire evening including dinner, 7 to 1 am, $34.00 per person. 
Pep rally and New Year's Eve party only -9 to 1 am, $5.00 per student. 
Location: Dallas Apparel Mart Great Hall 
e Pre-game Mass and brunch -Hall of State next to the Cotton Bowl -10 am, January 1. Brunch -$12.00 per person. 
e Post-game party, Hall of State, $2.00 per person. 

Package to all events including all meals, $36.00 per person. 
Send check and ticket requests to the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, P.O. Box 1232, Dallas, TX 75221-1232. 
For more information, call 214-788-41 71. 
people in our farm system to make a trade like this," Kansas City general manager John Schuerholz said. 
Davis was 5-2 with the Royals last season with a 2.27 ERA in 27 games. Perez was 1-1 in three games with the Royals, and 8-5 at Class AA Memphis. Hibbard was a combined 16-9 with three minor league teams, and Mount had a combined 21 saves with three minor league clubs. 
"Three others clubs con­tacted us about Floyd Ban­nister. We weren't looking just to get the best players for our club in 1988, but also for 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992," White Sox GM larry Himes said. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers and New York Yankees, frustrated in their efforts to make any deals, made plans to stay in town. So did the New Y?rk M~ts, possibly for. a swap with therr cross-town rivals. 
Almost e':eryone els~ was gone. Just eight trades mvolv­ing 22 major league players came at the meetings, which officially ended Wednesday. 
With no deadline to make trades during the meetings, major moves could come soon. But a blockbuster trade to send Guerrero from the Dodgers to Detroit for Kirk Gibson fell through. 
Some free-agent signings, in­cluding Righetti, Bob Horner and Atlee Hammaker, might be close. 
The Texas Rangers, whose only action was signing Craig McMurtry, kept talking. 
"The last thing you want to do is find out somebody else was available after they signed with somebody else," Rangers general manager Tom Grieve said. 


BAD ANIMALS TOUR 1987 
Special Guest -Mr. .Mister 
This Sunday, December. 13 
7:30 pm -N.D. Joyce ACC South Bend 
Tickets available now at The Notre Dame Joyce Center, Sears in the University Park Mall and Elkhart; St. Joseph Bank, Main Branch; Nightwinds, North Village Mall and Niles; The Elkhart Truth; Super Sounds, Elkhart; J.R.'s Music, LaPorte and Music Magic, Benton Harbor or Telecharge 219-2.39-7.356 



-------~---------------...______________ 
: )., I 


page 18 The Observer Friday, December 11 , 1987 
around and taking the shot. five offensive rebounds all
Irish 
Now in college, I've learned at night, including just one in the this level I have to read first first half.
continued from page 20 
and then look to score." 
Thursday's Results
second half, as the Prairie Robinson scored 14 of his 
Notre Dame 89, Prairie VIew A&M 52View defense overplayed the team-leading 18 points in the Prairie VIew A&M (52) p
ball and left weak-side shooters final 12 :04 of the second half. M FG-A FT·A R F 
Horne 29 5-7 1-4 9 3 11
wide open for the jumper. His 17 rebounds were the most 
Pope 7 0-1 0-0 0 3 0
Junior Mark Stevenson finally by any Irish player since Tracy Stevenson 22 Q-3 0-0 2 5 0 
found his touch after a 1-of-6 Jackson's 19 against Missouri Holt 21 1-2 o-o 0 2 2 
Jones 37 8-16 0-0 2 2 19
first-half shooting perfor­in the 1980 NCAA Tournament. 
Gant 15 1-6 0-0 2 2 2 
mance, canning two jumpers "I think you can see what of­Lamb 8 0-1 0-0 0 1 0 from the baseline and driving fensive potential Keith Robin­Durr 6 2-5 0-0 0 2 4 in for a slam dunk off a Jam"ere son has," said Phelps. "He's Ervin 31 6-16 0-1 4 3 12 

Junigan 17 1-4 0-0 5 2 2 ,;~: ~ 
Jackson feed to make the count going to get those shots if he Powell 6 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
;<<

48-27. learns to read the defense. Washington 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 . :: .:;­200 24-62 1-5 24 25 49
Four minutes later, with the Against some better teams, '· ' 
. .::

scoreboard reading 59-29 and though, he's going to turn FG Pet -.387. FT Pet -.200. Team . ~~ 
the game well out of reach, the around and have a hand in his rebounds -33. Turnovers -31. Assists -7 
(Horne 2, Stevenson 2). Three point goals
Keith Robinson display came. face. If he can read the defense 
-Jones 3.
This was what Irish fans were and fake and go opposite he'll Notre Dame (89) 
waiting to see from the 6-9 continue to get those shots." M FG-A FT·A R F p 
Stevenson 18 6-12 2-2 2 2 14
sophomore, who scored seven The crowd woke up with 2:36 Voce 4-8 8
24 2-2 1 10
points in just under four remaining as walk-ons Chris Paddock 20 1-1 2-5 5 3 4 
minutes and dominated both Nanni and Nicgorski stepped Rivers 30 5-14 6-8 7 0 17 
Jackson 0-0 0 0
backboards. A turnaround on to the hardwood. A Nanni 18 0·4 2 
Fredrick 10 1-1 4-4 0 0 6
jumper followed a steal which jumper and Nicgorski free Singleton 19 3-5 3-4 1 1 9 
followed a layup off a steal. throw both missed their mark, Nanni 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Nicgorski 3 0-0 0-1 0 0 0
While Notre Dame's first-half however, as did a Robinson last 
Connor 13 2-3 0-0 2 3 4 
press shut the door on the Pan­second touchdown bomb to a Ellery 19 2-3 3-5 4 1 7 
thers, Robinson locked it. wide-open Nicgorski with five Robinson 23 8-12 2-5 17 1 18 200 32-64 24-36 46 14 88
"Once I got going I felt a lot seconds remaining. The over­
more comfortable," said Rob­thrown pass outran the 6-7 FG Pet. -.500. FT Pet -.667. Team inson. "It just took time for me senior from South Bend to the rebounds -o50. Turnovers -18. Assists -17 (Rivers 5, Jackson 3, Fredrick 3). Three point
to build up my confidence. At far baseline, and the score 
goals -Rivers 1. Halftime -Notre Dame 40,

first I was rushing a lot of shots. remained 89-52 as the game Prairie View A&M 20. Officials -Dave Perry, Terry Andryslak might see some playing time for Notre Dame In 
I had to break the habit I had came to a close. Larry Brown, Mike Sanzere (all MAC). A -the 1988 Cotton Bowl. The senior broke his collarbone againstin high school of just turning Prairie View managed only 9,880. 
Pittsburgh, but Is ready to practice once again. 
two TD's on 112 rushing at­Junior Rod Harris is a speedy 

**********************************\
tempts. receiver with great leaping
Cotton 

Lewis was named the SWC's ability, whose 19 catches for 281 * * 
I continued from page 20 * * 
Newcomer of the Year. yards and two touchdowns(' team with 104 tackles and 15 Woodside is also the team's earned him a spot on the All­t SM.C ..tNNOUNC£8: : 
) sacks. reception leader with 25 SWC team. Senior Sammy O'Brient is catches f?r 237 yards. * * 
~ ******************* ~
l' next in tackles with 95. The 
i :i 
#.. 
I! noseguard leads a relatively * * .\ young defensive line, and re­
I
! ,, corded 10 tackles for losses this t : OP:EN : 
I. year. 
* * 
'1: Free safety Kip Corrington, * * I·: GTE's Academic All-American 
) ·, : AUD'LT'LON8 :
of the Year with a 3.97 GPA in philosophy, has 81 tackles on ~ f"oy-: ~ the season.
~~ 
I I The Aggies will be without rvrRIDAY~ : BLASS : 
1\! -r• the services of senior strong ,I safety Terrance Brooks, who IS OVR LA-s-r N lCHT OPEN ) * * ;I suffered a leg injury in the final ( * * 
UN"TIL ~P'TER BRI!~" 

'I regular season game against : rt:EN AB:ER'L:E : 
Texas. Brooks had 85 tackles and was an All-SWC selection. 50¢ DRAfT ** D\.nt:;ted by R.obe.-ta N. Rude ** ~ a.nd a. stud\.o prod.uct\.on by: !
I' ) Notre Dame's defense 
I• ( MALIBU PINEAPPLES 75<t-: Robert G.. SmaU. !
' vs. Texas A&M's offense
j 
*~ JANUARy 13, 14, 15 !* 
I i Mter a regular season which saw different defensive lineups ~~~ ~ 7:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. !
(: from week to week because of ~l 
•, ;~: injuries, the Irish finally have ! 0 'LauqhLi-n A.ud:i-tori-um ! I the time they needed to 
)J recover. m~rrij Cl1fJistmus !* on and oJJstaqe openi-nqs! !* Corny Southall and Brandy
l! Wells should be at full speed in ~o HAPPY NEW YEAR! !* Tor i-nfo a.nd sU;Jn-u.ps !* ~: the secondary, and the defen­* contact: COTJ!. offi£e 110 M-oreau * 
i sive line will have something it 
284-4640

has not had much of this year ! ~ I' -healthy players on the bench. 
I I Sherrill's offense has been ***********************************"* 
looking for some consistency r----:::,.-----.,,..----::;:~;::;::;~~--~~~=h::----~~-----..~---,
I!,\ this season, and might have fi­
1/ nally found it in senior quarter­
) 
back Craig Stump. Stump

j, played in all 11 games, al­though he did not start all of them, completing 41-of-98 passes for 524 yards and two touchdowns. 
PIZZA
Freshman Bucky Richard­

I 
BIG "V"

)· son might also see some time if Stump, who threw eight in­SUPER SPECIAL
I; 
terceptions, is having trouble.

" 
"\i Richardson is primarily an op­GET 2 EXTRA LARGE PIZZAS PLUS tion quarterback, and he ran
1' 2 LITER BOTTLE OF COKE FOR $13.99 
for 423 yards and three touch­

downs on 62 carries. That's an (PLUS TAX AND DELIVERY) YOUR CHOICE OFll average of more than 6.8 yards ANY ONE SINGLE TOPPING AND SECOND 
every time he turns upfield. 

The Aggies have two quick PIZZA WITH TWO TOPPINGS OF YOUR tailbacks. 
CHOICE. 
Freshman Darren Lewis led 

Not valid in combination with any other offers.
the team in rushing with 668 

yards and eight touchdowns on Valid at participating locations. ,,· 127 carries. Senior Keith Wood-EXPIRES 1115-87
side picked up 620 yards and '------.a._____..______________________...____________,
I 

Friday, December 11, 1987 
The Observer page 19 
-
Dinner Menus The Daily Crossword 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Monte Cristo Sandwich  Sweet and Sour Pork  
Beer Batter Perch  Fried Perch  
BBQ Pork Loin  Cheese  Fondue  with  
Broccoli Cheese Casserole  Vegetables  
Deli Bar  


NASA was warned that 0-rings could not withstand freezing temperatures. 
If the press didn't tell us,whowould? 
To get printed information on the role ofa free press and how it protects your rights. or to discuss any free press issue, call the First Amendment Center at 1-800-542-1600. 

Comics 
Bloom County 
OPIJ.f... I HIIVt SfWerHIN& 10 5,qy K£fJIIf?ClfM7 1Hf: 11M~ we PAN YW OfiT OF WW for< YaiR 
f'eN&I/fN t.f!-'f 6fi51N655.• 
\ 

Beernuts 
NOW A VICTIM OF f'!?.!vl/ll!C& MY-!c(,f, I CIIN FtNflU.Y I/Nt?e?5Tl/NP. I Wl/5 Wf(ONG. I lltt1 50f?RY. ...80'1, I IUL. 
~NOW. m/TYWfUl-~({ NOW ? 
\ 
ACROSS Short-lived fancies 
5 Move slowly 
9 Hits hard 
14 To shelter 
15 Burrower 
16 Do penance 
17 Ear area 
18 Harbor feature 
19 Purple hue 
20 Once-valid comparison phrase 
23 Newt 24 Bakery worker 25 After 
expenses 26 WWJJ craft 27 Favorite 28 Trophy 31 Type of boom 34 Metric weight 36 Frog family 37 Story of a 
singing family 40 Non-standard 
negative 41 Fuel 42 Reduce 43 Caviar source 44 Pipe joint 45 Dined 46 See 6D 47 Skin problem 49 Fuel 52 Words of OK! 56 "... a bone 
and-of hair" 57 Hindu 
goddess 58 Path 59 Stopover 60 Bard's river 61 Hewing tool 62 Sheriff's men 63 Shelter 64 Fr. river 
DOWN 1 Deceptive 2 Standoffish 3 Launching 
occasion? 4 Observed 5 Influence 6 Clamor 
Berke Breathed 
Mark Williams 


WAIT A 1'1/NVT£-Y(}IJk£ TOK/f\4 RIGHT ? 
NEXT WEEK. 
\ 
I 



,.... 

©1987 Tribune Media Services, inc. 12/11/87All Rignts Reserved 
7 Transparent 8 Ranch group 9 "Swan Lake" 
10 Lopsided 11 Old theme 
song 12 Growl 13 Wine word 
21  Modern dance  
22  - a kind  
26  Roster  

27 Scheme 
28 Residence in Madrid 
29 Military group 
30 Rate of movement 
31 Luminary 
32 Buckeye State 


33  Hawaiian  44 Bell sound  51  Passover  
34  goose Leg joint  45 Apply oil to 46 Beach sights  festival 52 Get out!  
35 Ms Lupino 36 Hayseed  47 Century plant 48 Punctuation  53 Horse feed 54 Card game for  
38 Set on edge 39 Defeated at  mark 49 Merchandise  three 55 Salver  
chess  50 Astound  56 Elec.  unit  
- 
The Far Side  Gary Larson  

Cl lil87 Ul'\oVtlfMI Prest SyndJCaltl 


Rocking the anthropological world, a second "Lucy'' Is discovered in southern Uganda. 

Friday & Saturday 
8:00 & -10:30 pm 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
WILLIAM HURT MARLEE MATLIN 
STUDENT ONION BOARD WISHES EVERYONE A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS! 


--------~~~~-------~----­

ll 
L· 
l 
) 
':' 


,.. 
i !." 
I 
:i 
\~ 
J " 
l\; 
!,1: 
I, 
J,! 
'. 
, r ;, ' 
f I· \l 
J ' : 
...
) 
l 
j' 
j•c 
.i -·~ 
,i :.= 
;! 
~ J 
I 
l 
\" 
,._ "
r 
f 
I~ 
' 
~~ 
~ 
ll
I 
I i 
~ 
I 
I 
il 
ll ;:._ 
Sports
Friday, December 11, 1987 
Irish crushPanthers; Robinson scores 18 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
It was a blowout, plain and simple. 
If it were a war, the white flag would have been waved after the national anthem. In­stead, 40 minutes of basketball resulted in an 89-52 Notre Dame rout of visiting Prairie View A&M, and yes, a Steve Nic­gorski peace offering at the foul line with one minute remain­ing. 
Despite another ice cold shooting display in the opening minutes, the Irish used a full­court press defense and an 18­point, 17-rebound performance by sophomore Keith Robinson to break an early 10-10 tie and run away with a Iaugher. The Panthers actually held the lead, 10-8, after eight minutes, thanks to two three-point shots by senior guard Reginald Jones. Jones, who would finish as the game's high scorer with 19 points, led the nation last season in three-point shooting, hitting 57-percent of those shots. 
"I didn't like the way we started the game," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "We did the same thing against Boston the other night. The first five minutes were just flat. I think out of our first five shots we hit one. We rushed our 
Cotton Bowl lets N D start over; Third straight time for Sherrill 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
DALLAS -This is the one that makes it all worthwhile. 
The Notre Dame football team's dream of a national title was shattered by losses to Penn State (21-20) and Miami (24-0) in the last two games of the reg­ular season. But the Cotton Bowl and the Aggies of Texas A&M give the 12th-ranked, 8-3 Irish a chance to finish 1988like they started it: 
On a winning note. 
"They (the Irish players) must realize that winning -and not just getting there -now is the important thing," Holtz said . 
The last time Notre Dame played on Jan. 1 in a major bowl game was in the 1981 Sugar Bowl, when Dan Devine ended his six-year coaching career with a 17-10 loss to Georgia. 

~­
·-,:--JI 
shots a bit, and that's not going to help you win ballgames." 
With the score knotted at 10, the Irish came out in a full­court press that caught the Panthers off guard, leading to two quick five-second calls and a steal by Robinson. The visitors continued to have trou­ble getting the ball inbounds, while Notre Dame pounced on its oppoenents' futility and t jumped ahead quickly, 25-14, led by the quick hands and fast­break play of senior David Rivers and freshman Tim Singleton. 
The Panthers turned the ball over 18 times in the opening half, 31 times for the night. Notre Dame also had its sloppy moments, committing 18 er­rors. 
"At the 10-minute mark we went to the press and I think that is what got our creativity going where we were scoring points off the press and playing with intensity," Phelps said. 
Rivers and Singeton contin­ued to pester the visitors in the backcourt as the first half come to a close, tallying five steals between them and setting up their teammates and each other as Notre Dame doubled the score by the intermission, 40-20. 
That pace continued in the Freshman Tim Singleton {10) and the other Irish reserves got a lot of playing time Thursday night, 
see IRISH, page 18 as Notre Dame rolled to an easy 89-52 victory 
Holtz coached some great teams at Arkansas, a South­west Conference school, but never took the Razorbacks to the Cotton Bowl. The Razor­backs did play in the Orange, Sugar, Fiesta, Gator, Bluebon­net and Hall of Fame Bowls un­der Holtz. 
Jackie Sherrill's Aggies, on the other hand, are no strang­ers to the Cotton Bowl. Sherrill has coached his 13th-ranked, 9­2 squad to its third consecutive SWC championship and Cotton Bowl appearance. 
The Aggies lost to Ohio State last year, by a 28-12 score. They crushed Bo Jackson-led Auburn in 1986, 36-16. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Texas A&M's defense 
Two big developments have lifted the spirits of the Notre 

page 20 
Dame offense since the shutout at Miami. 
The first was expected. Senior flanker Tim Brown won the 1987 Heisman Trophy for his all-purpose talents on of­fense and returning kicks. 
The other was something of a surprise. Senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak, who broke his collarbone against Pit­tsburgh and was expected to be out for the season, could be ready to play on New Year's Day. 
Whoever gets the nod to call the signals for the Irish -Tony Rice, Kent Graham or Andrysiak -will have to keep an eye on the Southwest Confer­ence's leading defense. 
All-America linebacker John Roper, the SWC's Defensive Player of the Year, leads the 
see COTTON, page 18 
_ 

---------------------------------------------~ 
Look what's under the Christmas tree 
'"Tis the season to be jolly." 
In the true spirit of the season, here are a few gift ideas for those around the sporting world. 
Irishflanker Tim Brown -He's gotten plenty already this 
season. One thing he won't need is a car. They've got 
plenty of them in Detroit. 
Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 

Irish soccer coach Dennis Grace -A copy of Aretha Franklin's Greatest Hits. "All I need is r-e-s-p-e-c-t." 
The Notre Dame men's cross-country team -Kudos. They surprised everyone in becoming the only Irish team to really have a shot at a national title this fall. 
Irish men's basketball coach Digger Phelps -lA sewing kit. You know how hard those big games can be on your wardrobe. 
Irish walk-on basketball player Steve Nicgorski -He gets the hood ornament look-alike award fro his free-throw shooting style. But it looked great on national television. 
see GIFTS, page 13 


The Observer I Rob Regovich over Prairie View A&M at the Joyce ACC. Brian O'Gara has the details at left. 

There are only 14 shopping days left until Christmas 
What do you do? Your parents want something from Notre Dame. You bought them all sweatshirts from the bookstore last year, and the Tiffany Notre Dame lamps will clash with the living room colors. The answer is easy: buy them a subscription to The Observer. They'll get all the campus news and sports coverage that students get every day. 
Please enclose $25 for the remainder of the semester and send the name and mailing address to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

r__ 
--J 






