Brush with greatness -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 120 MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving ~otre Dame and Saint 'fa11's . 
Local man has attack at Morris Inn 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
A 75-year-old South Bend res­ident collapsed at the Morris Inn early Saturday evening and later died after being transported to Memorial Hospital of South Bend. 
William Keller, of 602 25th St., South Bend, collapsed at approximately 7:45p.m. Satur­day in the dining room of the Morris Inn, according to Hazel Kelley, assistant hostess of the dining room. Keller was eating dinner alone when "he just arched backwards" and col­lapsed in his chair, she said. 
Kelley said a registered nurse and an Indiana State Trooper who were in the dining room "by chance" immedi­ately began administering CPR. Notre Dame Security was called, and they, in turn, called an ambulance crew, she said. 
Ambulance attendants worked on Keller for "a good 20 minutes," said paramedic John Ritter. "We did every­thing we could," he said. "We'd get his heartbeat back for a while and then it would dis­sipate again. Nothing seemed to work." 
Keller was transported to Memorial Hospital of South Bend. "We were still working on him at the hospital," said Ritter. "Things didn't look too good though." 
Keller was treated for a "short time" in the hospital's emergency room before dying of cardio-pulmanary arrest, a serious heart attack, according to a ward secratary in the emergency room. 

Dancing your pants off ner Sunday night and a 
luncheon at the prime mini­ster's residence Monday.
At the third annual Charity Ball to benefit the Catholic Relief Reagan also will address aServices, two students dance holes in their shoes at South Dining joint session of Parliament onHall Saturday night. The benefits go to Ethiopia and Third World Monday and meet with opposi­countries, though the object was to raise consciousness and tion leader John Turner. 
awareness about hunger and world suffering. 



Hofman honored for dedication, teaching 
By REGIS COCCIA and JOE MURPHY Staff reporters 
Professor Emil Hofman has been named the recipient of the Schilts­Leonard Award by the Col­lege of Science. 
The award honors the pro­fessor in the College who best exemplifies profes­sionalism and dedication in the field. 
"I'm delighted," said Hof­man, a chemistry professor who has been at Notre Dame for 37 years. 
The award is named after the late Father James Schilts, a Notre Dame pro­fessor of astromony and physics. 
Hofman, who is retiring at the end of this academic year, said, "The word most often used by former stu­dents of my course who write me and the one I ap­preciate the most is 'respect.' " 
Known for his weekly quizzes, Hofman said, "It is important there be a device that will cause students to study and keep them up with the class material. The weekly quiz is the answer." 
The weekly quiz, Hofman said, is a good way for him to teach the large chemistry classes and monitor the stu­dents' progress. 
Hofman said the students appreciate the extra help available to them. He holds weekly workshops and review sessions. He also uses video tapes of his class to assist students. 
Another aspect of Hof­man's chemistry course 
see AWARD, page 3 


Reagan, Mulroney meet for summit 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA President Reagan arrived in Ottawa Sun­day for meetings with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney at a summit where the two leaders' political problems provided a backdrop to nagging differ­ences on trade and acid rain pollution. 
Both sides said in advance that no agreements or joint statements would be produced during Reagan's 24-hour visit. 
The Canadians billed the summit as "an inconclusive working session." The Americans called it a summit "without drama -a lot of workmanlike, businesslike ses­sions to look at the agenda." 
"I don't expect any major breakthroughs on a dozen dif­ferent fronts," Mulroney said Sunday in an interview on NBC­TV's "Meet the Press." "What I expect is solid, continual progress." 
At Parliament Hill, a short distance from the airport, where Air Force One touched down, more than 5,000 demonstrators gathered with banners and ballons to protest Reagan's visit. The protesters complained about the Canada­
U.S. free-trade talks, acid rain and Reagan's Central America policy. 
Over two days, Reagan and Mulroney will hold two rounds The Observer/Zoltan Ury of talks and meet at a state din­
The agenda for the talks was 
virtually unchanged from 
Reagan's three previous sum­
mits with Mulroney: acid rain, 
trade and Canada's claim of 
sovereignty over the 
Northwest Passage, which the 
United States maintains is an 
international waterway. 
Washington also is unhappy 
with the level of Canada's 
defense spending, which 
amounts to 2.2 percent of its 
gross national product. The 
United States says the figure is 
below alliance-agreed targets. 
The political climate has 
changed markedly for both 
leaders since their last meeting 
in Washington in March 1986. 
Reagan has been bruised by the Iran-Contra episode, while Mulroney has been battered by a series of scandals and contro­versies involving members of his Cabinet. Some Canadians 
feel Mulroney has been too ac­commodating to Reagan. Mulroney responds: "I make no apologies for that." 
In 1984, Mulroney led his Pro­gressive Conservative Party to the largest landslide in Canadian history. However, a recent poll shows his party is in third place and that Mul­roney's personal popularity has fallen to 23 percent -a drop of 47. points from 1984. 
Reagan took some of the sting out of the acid rain dis­pute when he pledged last month to seek $2.5 billion over five years for innovative demonstration projects to curb polluting emissions from coal­burning facilities. 
On trade, the two countries are engaged in negotiations in­tended to produce a free-trade agreement removing all tariff and non-tariff barriers. 
Junior Moms visit SMC campus 
By DEIRDRE FINN News Staff 
The theme, "You are my mother by chance, but my friend by choice," appropri­ately expressed the sentiments of the Junior Mother-Daughter Weekend at Saint Mary's. 
Patty Petro, organizer of the event, was "extremely pleased with the outcome of the weekend." She said it was one of the best turnouts for the event, with more than 275 mot­hers and other guests par­ticipating. 
The weekend offered a vari­ety of planned events that ap­pealed to both the students and their mothers. 
Mothers and daughters were invited to attend the perfor­mance of the North Carolina Ballet Company at O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday night. 
After the performance, there was a slide show and welcome reception at Angela Athletic Facility. The slide show con­sisted of pictures that had been submitted by juniors earlier in the year. Petro said, "The pur­pose of the slide show was to show moms what college life is really like." 
Saturday's activities began with early morning aerobics at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Throughout the day, various lectures were given in connec­tion with the weekend. Chuck Pressler, sociology professor at Saint Mary's, discussed the importance of relationships in his lecture, "Love Doesn't Grow on Trees." Roberta Noblemen acted out sections of St. Luke's Gospel in her lec­ture, "Feminine Spirituality." Jay Louis's lecture, "Becoming a Better You," dealt with goal setting and preparing for the future. 
Many considered the high­light of the weekend to be the luncheon and fashion show at the Marriott Hotel. 
"The luncheon and fashion show were my favorite events of the weekend," said junior Lenore Madden. 
Students and mothers partic­ipated as models and commen­tators for the fashion show, which was sponsored by The Milady Shop, a local boutique. 
The day's activities were capped off with a cocktail party in the lobby of Regina Hall. 
"The cocktail party was really fun. Itwas great to meet my friends' moms in such a relaxed atmosphere," said Col­leen Harty. · The weekend ended with a 
special Mass at the Church of Loretto on Sunday morning. 
"The church was beautiful. It was a nice end to the weekend," said Ann Betten­dorf. 
Even those juniors whose mothers were unable to attend participated in the activities. 
"I enjoyed spending time with my friends and their moms, even though my mom 
see MOMS, page 4 

I 
I 
I 
l 
·· • ·. '"'Q(>· fl ~· -:A \n·h ·r,l•/
The Observer 

In Brief 
. 

Anthony Michel, chairman of the department of electrical and computer engineering, has been named Frank M. Freimann Professor of Engineering by Provost Timothy O'Meara. The appointment is effective Aug 23. Michel, who holds a doctorate in electrical engineering from Marquette University, came to Notre Dame in 1984 as professor and chairman of the department of electrical engineering. -The Observer 

Of Interest 

Father Michael McCafferty's anniversary of ordination is today. The 5: 15 Mass at Sacred Heart will celebrate Father Mike's ordination. Everyone is invited and encouraged to attend and to pray for Father Mike's continued recovery after his bone marrow transplant in Seattle. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Composer Concert, featuring the music of Ethan Haimo, will be held tonight at 8 in Wash­ington Hall. The program will consist of Haimo's works performed by various members of the Notre Dame music community.-The Observer 
"Career Planning Workshop" is the title of a presentation to be given by Joan Mcintosh of Career and Placement Services today at 4 p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Students of all majors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
A book fair will be held this week at Little Professor Book Center at University Commons. A percentage of all sales will go to the Ladies of Notre Damet Saint Mary's College Scholarship Fund. From today until Saturday, shopping at Little Professor will benefit this scholarship fund, which is organized by the faculty wives and faculty women. -The Observer 
International students will have an opportunity to meet with Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp tonight at 7 in the ISO lounge. Refreshments will be served at the question and answer session. -The Observer 
Peace with Justice Week begins tonight with the video "God and Money," which looks at the issues raised by the 
U.S. Bishops' pastoral letter on economics. The film will be shown at 7 p.m. in the Grace Hall pit, followed by a discussion led by Prof. Drew Christiansen of the theology department. -The Observer 
An Tostal sign-ups for Impersonations, Loud Mouth, Serf Auction, Mud Volleyball, Mud Pillow Fights, Golf Tournament, Slam Dunk, Kisser, Air Band, Ultimate Fris­bee, NQ.SMC Challenge, Canoe Races, Bike Races, Beat the Clock and Recess-Pizza Eating will be held from 7-9 tonight and Tuesday night in the An Tostal office on the second floor of LaFortune. For any questions, call the An Tostal office at 239-6908. -The Observer 

Weather 

Go fly a kite. Mostly cloudy, breezy and cool tomorrow with a chance of sprinkles. High around 50. Partly cloudy tonight. Low in the mid to upper 30s. Mostly sunny Tuesday. High in the low to mid 50s. -Associated Press 


-Ihe__Q_bse~~er---­
-··----·--.L-=-Y:, . 
Design Editor .. . Tom Schiesser Design Assistant .. .. .. Matt Breslin Typesetters... .. Shawn Sexton ........................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning Copy Editor.............. .. .. Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock 

Tile Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Observer is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout. ....... Melinda Murphy Accent Copy Editor ............ Tom Beatty Typists... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ........... Beth Cornwell Ad Design.. .. ............. Mary C. Creadon Photographer.. ............. Zoltan Ury 
Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 2 




Take a moment to think before you give your opinion 
I was in class the other day when the discus­sion turned to pornography. 
"And if we could only stop pornography, all of the sexism that exists might end," was the thrust of one person's argument. 
"But why would that happen," I responded. "Because pornography subjugates women," she answered. "Are you sure? How do you know that?" I persisted. 
"It's obvious," was the reply. 
Now I'm not saying I believe that pornogra­phy is a good thing, but whether it's a bad thing or not is not obvious, folks. 
Consider the complexities involved: Has any study found a direct relationship between the viewing of pornography, even hard-core porn, and criminal behavior? To my knowledge, none has. Unfortunately, the Meese Commission's recent report tries to make just such a claim without any substantive evidence. In fact, the star witness for the commission, Edward Don­nerstein of the University of Wisconsin, refused to make such a claim, saying that violence is what causes criminal behavior, not porn. 
But the point here is not to talk about porn. The point is that too many times during my stay here at Notre Dame I've heard conversa­tions degenerate into issues that people really do not know what they are talking about. 
If I had to think of one complaint I have about life under the Golden Dome, it's that students here are uncritical in developing opinions. 
Take the subject of abortion. How many people believe abortion is wrong? It's a pretty safe bet most of the people here at Catholic haven do. But why? 
"Well, the pope said so, it's wrong -it's just plain wrong. That's all there is to it," is a not uncommon reply. 
Again, I'm not trying to say abortion should be condoned, but too often people cannot give a well thought-out position as to why it should be condemned. 
According to "The Shape of Catholic Higher Education," "Catholics chose business as a fu­ture career more often than Protestants from all denominations except Congregational ... Explanantions for this phenomenon differ, but a common thread running through them all is the suggested absence of critical inquiry." 
Sounds pretty accurate? Well, the book I am referring to was written in 1967, not 1987. In my opinion, things really haven't changed much at all since then. 
But students are not alone in a lack of intel­lectual inquiry. The same source continues that although "Catholic college administrators have 
~  
~  
.  Rape Prevention:  ~  
::  A Common Sense Approach  ~  
')  
)  
) )  For men and women concerned about rape  
~  and other forms of sexual harrassment.  
~  
~ ~  April 7 6:30-8:30 pm  
~ {  Haggar 117  

ALUMNIIll SENIOR 
:J: 
1­
Applicationsfor the 1987-88 staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
The deadline for all applications is April 8th. 
Rob 


Hennig 
Copy Editor 

been moving away from paternalism of the past ... vestiges remain, particularly with regard to the expression of unconventional beliefs and sentiments." 
Read about the censorship of nearly 100 Bookstore Basketball names. Read about the censorship of "The Juggler" and the shutting­down of "The Scholastic." 
The administration has not been a good ex­ample to follow. 
"The Religious Factor" written more than 25 years ago stated that ''the basic intellectual orientation which Catholicism develops Cis) an orientation which values obedience above intel­lectual autonomy." 
Maybe that's the price we have to pay for being a Catholic university. I don't know how, then, Father Hesburgh can talk about making Notre Dame a "great Catholic university." Maybe we can do both. 
But this can be achieved only if we begin to really think what underlies much of our beliefs. 
In the end, I'm not asking for anyone to aban­don his Catholicism. Far be it for me to do so. All I'm asking is for people to think a little bit before they speak. 
Please. 
the overprotective 


---~-----------~-----~-·~-·---~ 
The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 3·­

Alumnae club leaders hold meeting at SMC 
By MARIA DOTI Staff Reporter 
Thirty-seven alumnae club presidents from aU around the country participated in the 1987 Club Presidents' Conference April 3-5 on the Saint Mary's College campus. 
Representatives, from such distant places as Alaska and Seattle, traveled to learn more about their cities' clubs and ways to improve them. 
"The club presidents have a definite interest in continuing education, student recruit­ment, career networking, fundraising and development," said Barbara Borchers Ber­nath, conference chairman. 
Beverly Senda DeFoe, con­ference vice chairman, said, "It's helpful to the participants to be with other club presidents who share many of the same problems, as well as ideas for improvement." 
The topics to be covered at the conference were the result of a questionnaire mailed to the various clubs last year. "This is a conference, not a class­room," said Bernath. "Our goal is to get alumnae involved and enhance club participa­tion." 
"Over half the alumnae from Saint Mary's are from classes graduating in the 70's and 80's," said DeFoe. "That tells us where we have to focus our attention. We must reach the younger graduates, and whatever we can do to make that connection -we do it." 
This year marks the 90th an­niversary for the Saint Mary's clubs. It has the seventh oldest alumnae club organization throughout the country. 
"One advantage of going to a school like Saint Mary's is that it has a wide geographic range," said Bernath. "It has a national student body as well as a local one." 
"The theme of the weekend is 'Enjoy, Learn, Share, Plan, Do,' " according to DeFoe. 
The club presidents get to "enjoy" meeting club leaders from all over the country; they get to "learn" new ways of or­ganizing their clubs and utiliz­ing skills; there is ample op­portunity to "share" these skills and ideas; club leaders meet and "plan" new pro­~rams; and finally, those in­volved in the weekend get to go back to their respective clubs and do the things they planned at the conference. 

Are they 21? 
With the alcohol policy temporarily suspended for a "Saint Mary's moment," juniors Kelly Igoe (left center) and Haley Osterbeck (right 

Award 
continuedfrom page 1 
which has attention over the years is the "Emil Parade." Started by students, the parade occurs before the final exam each semester. "The parade lessens the tension before the exam. For the first several years, the students planned it all, now I get into the act," said Hofman. · 
"This past semester, I wanted to show them I was still 
ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S GRADUATES 
FOR OUR SPECIAL CAR SALE! 
• 
Eighteen local auto dealers with over 300 new and used cars and· trucks 

• 
Notre Dame ACC 

• 
No admission charge 

• 
Wed., April 8, 5:00 PM -8:00 PM Thurs., April9, 10:00 AM-8:00PM Fri., April 10, 10:00 AM -5:00 PM 

• 
All makes and models to choose from 

• 
Special rates...8.24% variable and 9.24% fixed A. P.R. 

• 
On the spot financing available from the lst Source Bank Loan Specialists 


~source
-.aank 

the boss," Hoffman said. He dressed as Bruce Springsteen. 
Over the years, Hofman said he has taught many students who have later become quite successful. Among them are Father Edward Malloy, president-elect of the Univer­sity, John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life as well as congressmen and leaders in fields of business and science. 
"The qualities he consis­tently has displayed in abun­dance have been a deep con­cern for individual students, a willingness to be available and a conviction that students can succeed with the proper amount of effort," said Malloy. 
"I cannot claim to be respon­sible for the success of any stu­dent, but I enjoy being able to see the success of students. This is the joy of teaching," said Hofman. 
Hofman previously has received the Thomas Madden Award for excellence in teach­ing freshmen at Notre Dame, the Presidential Citation for University Service presented by University President Theodore Hesburgh, the James Armstrong Award for Univer­sity Service presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion and the Gold Medal Finalist for professor of the year from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. 

Sisters Office Services 


TYPING 
**Term Papers** Reports Resume Preparation 
Grammar and Spelling Corrected 
282-8593 
425 N. Michigan Suite202 South Bend, IN 46601 
Special Rates For Students 
The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 4 



Devil tried to destroy my life, says Roberts 
Associated Press 
ROCKWALL, Texas -Oral Roberts came close to death during his 10-day prayer vigil to raise $8 million for a medical missionary program, and he prayed so hard he almost lost his voice, the television evan­gelist said Sunday. 
In his first sermon since en­ding the vigil Tuesday in the Oral Roberts University prayer tower in Tulsa, Okla., Roberts discussed what he said he endured after an ultimatum from God that Roberts either raise the money or lose his life. 
"Two or three times, I felt death on me. I felt the devil was trying to destroy my life," Roberts told a capacity crowd at a service dedicating the new 5,001-seat Church on the Rock, which cost $15 million to build. 
The 69-year-old evangelist said he lost weight during the experience and prayed so long over more than 1 million prayer requests he nearly lost his voice. 
"I fought in that prayer tower with powers and prin­cipalities and powers of dark­ness," Roberts said. "It was like a howling hurricane was sweeping in from a spiritual standpoint, and my body was being buffeted." 
In January, Roberts told ana­tional television audience that God had spoken to him and told him he would die if he did not raise $8 million for the scholar­ship fund by March 31. 
On April 1, Roberts said he had received about $8.7 million in donations. He said he needed that amount every year to fund the medical missionaries who study at his Tulsa, Okla., medi­cal school. 
Roberts also told his fol­lowers last Easter in Dallas that he would die if he did not raise the money by the end of last year, but after failing to meet the deadline he made the televised appeal. A spokes­woman said in February that in the heat of his 1986 presenta­tion he apparently got the dead­line dates mixed up. 


Moms 
continuedfrom page 1 
couldn't come," said Haley Os­terbeck. 
Mothers and daughters agreed that it was a pleasurable weekend. 
"I enjoyed the weekend. The events were interesting and well planned," said Renee Con­well's mother, Alice. 
"It was great being able to spend time with just mom," said Katie Englehart. 
Erin Haggerty summed up the feelings of most of the juniors. "I never knew I could have so much fun with my mom." 

Correction 
A page five story Thursday listed Kathleen McKernan's class year in­correctly. She is a sopho­more. 
In Rockwall, a city of 10,800 about 30 miles east of Dallas, one of every four residents is a member of the Church on the Rock. 
Church member Cindy Mor­hac, 25, reflecting the views of many of the congregation, said Roberts' revelations are similar to those of Moses in the Old Testament. 
"This is really nothing new," she said of the ultimatum. 
On Friday, two aerospace workers filed a lawsuit in federal court in New Orleans, asking that Roberts be forced to return donations to anyone who asked and that the federal government regulate evange­lism. 
The lawsuit, filed by Douglas Coggeshall and Russell Rich­ardson of suburban Gretna, ac­cused Roberts of defaming God by portraying him as a black­mailer. 
A spokesman for Roberts' ministry said he could not be reached for comment. 


The Observer /Zoltan Ury 

Those on the ground may want to start rethink­ing their future plans. 
OurConstitution wasbornoutofaG1C9phonyofcompetmgvoices_. 

But today the freedom of speech that remains the hallmark of our Constitution may be threatened. 
The NAAAF Essay Contest is designed to emphasize the impor­tance of free speech and open debate in a vital area. 
In his best-selling book, They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby, former Congressman Paul Findley sounds an alarm: "It is clear that many Americans do notfeel they can speak freely on one of the most complicated and challenging current issues: The Arab-Israeli dispute." 
Is he right? What do you think? 
Full time college and univer­sity students are invited to submit a critical essay of 2,500 words or less on the subject 'The Development of American Middle East Policy: Is Free Speech Threatened?" 
There will be 200 regional winners of $l,OQO each and lO national winners of an additional $4,000 each. 
The contest is sponsored by the NAAA Foundation, a charitable organization which carries out educational programs on Middle East subjects. · 
Television commentator Tom Braden serves as. Honorary Chairman of the Selection Committee. Distinguished columnist Carl Rowan is Awards Chairman. 
Send us the coupon for details and entry forms. Entries must be postmarked by May 31, 1987. 
I Pkas;;-sc;:;d ~ c;;-mplete~uideli~s ~d-
I 

entry forms. 
Nam.· 

Collt·~l' nr lJni\•t•ro.it) 
Major 

Campu!!o Addn-s!!l 
Send to: NAAA Foundation, P.O. Box 19144, L ~sh~ng~n,_~K200~6 _ _ _ _ _ _j 
TheNAMfuundarionEssayGntest 
Commemorating the Anniversary ofthe Constitution • 200 Years • 200 Winners 


r---------------------~--~..-----------------------~--~----------------------------------------~----­
Monday, April 6, 1987-page 5 
The Observer 
Security Beat 
Thursday 
4:18 p.m. · A resident of St. Joseph Hall was the victim of a larceny from his auto. Taken was a cassette player and a tire gauge valued at $65. The theft took place while the car was parked near St. Joseph Hall. 
7:30p.m.-A Lewis Hall resident re­ported that someone took two notebooks and a calculus book while she left them on top of a coat rack at the South Dining Hall. Loss is es­timated at $47. 
10:00 p.m.-A resident of Grace Hall reported that his laundry was stolen from LaFortune. The victim had to leave the laundry room to get change and upon his return found that his clothing was missing. Loss is esti­mated at $350. 
Friday 
1:30 a.m. -Security officers recovered a vase and flower ar­rangement valued at $300 which had been taken from the Morris Inn. Se­curity does have suspect information and the investigation is continuing. 
9: 25 a.m. -A student Security officer, while on patrol in the AB-16Iot, found a vehicle that had been vandalized. The car is owned by Affordable Auto Rental in South Bend. The driver's side window had been broken out. Damage Is estimated at $100. 
12:15 
p.m.-Two vehicles were in­volved in a minor traffic accident at Juniper and Dorr Roads. It was a rear-end collision as both cars were southbound approaching the inter­section. No one was injured and both drivers were residents of South Bend. Damage estimates are un­known at this time. 

12:15 
p.m.. A Granger woman was injured while she was attending the RY and Camper Show at th!' ACC. The woman tripped over an electri­cal cable In the Fieldhouse. She was transported to the hospital by Secur­ity for treatment. 


I :45 p.m. -A South Bend resident was found to be trespassing on Notre Dame property. The suspect's vehi­cle was found in an area where van­dalisms are common which is what lead to finding the subject. 
2:03 p.m. -A two-car accident at Juniper and Dorr Roads was inves­tigated. The accident occurred as one vehicle was attempting to make a left turn onto Dorr Road and was then hit by a southbound vehicle. One of the drivers, a Farley Hall resi­dent, was injured as a result. 
2:05p.m.-A resident of Flanner Hall reported the theft of his backpack from the lobby of the Hammes Bookstore. The victim had left his property in the outer lobby while he was in the store. Loss is estimated at $205. 
2:55p.m.-A Holy Cross Hall resident reported that vandalism had been dome to his car while it was parked in the D-6 lot. Apparently someone kicked the passenger side door causing approximately $300 in dama­ges. 
3:55 p.m. -One of the exhibitors during the Home and Garden Show reported the theft of some merchan­dise from their display booth. Taken were plastic plant supports. Total loss is estimated at $72. 
6:30 p.m. -A South Bend resident reported the theft of his overcoat from the University Club. The coat was valued at $135. 
Saturday 

2:05 a.m. -A Notre Dame student was turned over to NDSD by Roseland Police after being charged 
with Minor Consuming Alcohol. The case is being reviewed by the office of Student Affairs. 
10:00 a.m. -A Notre Dame Credit Union employee reported an acci­dent which had taken place the night before. As the driver was turning into the back parking area, control of the car was lost due to ice on the pavement. The car is estimated at having approximately $1,000 of damage while the light pole was not damaged at all. 
11:45 a.m.-A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft his student ID from his room. The theft occurred while the victim was infirmed at the Student Health Center. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------....,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
1

I MasterCuts
1 Reg. $8 family haircuttErs I
r-------------------1 
I $5OFF ANY PERM : 
: Ma~rC~ 1 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 




-·­

The Observer/Zoltan Ury 

Real student athletes 
Members of a Bookstore Basketball team with just won their first game. The sneakers seem smiles as big as their basketball are either on to indicate the latter. their way to an early graduation or they have 
Bishops, scholars to meet at SMC to discuss agenda for Rome synod 
By COURTNEY JAMIESON News Staff 
Saint Mary's will serve as host for a pre-synod synthesiz­ing symposium from June 7-10 for U.S. and Canadian bishops attending the world Synod on the Laity in Rome. 
The agenda for the meeting includes a welcoming banquet with College President William Hickey as host, and a presenta­tion by Father Brian Hehir on the Church and the world. 
Doris Donnelly, co-director for the Center of Spirituality and coordinator of the event, said, "I believe the national of­fice in Washington is currently extending invitations to 
scholars in specialized areas 
who will aid the delegates in 
their deliberations while they 
frame the agenda for Rome. 
Some of those resource persons 
will be asked to make presen­
tations to the members of the 
synthesizing symposium. 
"One of the reasons Saint Mary's was chosen is because of the ground work President Hickey did with Mrs. Dolores Leckey, executive director of the bishops' committee on the laity," Donnelly said. 
She added, "Part of the rea­son we were chosen is that we are a women's institution, clearly Catholic, with long­
cjoulol fi' S,-tear-ns p~c:se. N-rs 
A Peasant 
of 
' 1 K'iY<!"tinq .,j-wo ..,...QYI ~,..~"""Q ... bare boii\("S brilltdM.:{ +h~q_{,-~."-Nc:w Ag~ /11\a.~cai.,e 
El Salvador 

Vursdj, ,A;::.-t 9, 191'1, J: /)()r' ;]ash.,"J -b>c-HiLt, 
;1tu-~ ?""-· 
Ad:{:ss~: 
s-t uctents f; I· trO genert:>..-1 public. f;4 ·4"0 
~anr~~d.s.­
c~n ~-er ..for soc.-ia.l c:onc~rns 2:39-_5293 
All pr-oceeds +or in+erna+iono.l relief 
established roots in the Church." 
"It is an honor for Saint Mary's to be a resource to the world Church for the Synod on the Laity," said President Hickey. 
A major focus at the world synod in Rome will be women's roles in the Church. Donnelly will preview the pastoral letter the National Conference of Catholic Bishops is preparing on the role of women in the Church in the United States. 
While on campus the bishops and others involved with the pre-synod symposium will be residing in Regina Hall, chosen because it best accornodates the needs of the meeting, ac­cording to Donnelly. 

SObering
Advice . ~ cansa~e__­
alife ', .. 
_h 

Anti-VIolence Activist 
Center tor Teaching Non-VIolence & NCTV tull·tlme otatt. Lodging & seooolyr. Rooaarch on aggreoolon, clearlnghouH, publlohlng & lobbying agolnllvlotencelncludlng TV, film, war toyo, oporto, erotica. Next to U II IInolo. Student toano deferable. 217-384-1820. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 81820 
.-------------------~-----­
The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987-page 6 
8,000 sealed Nazi files discovered in forgotten U.N. safes 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Two large safes in a building 16 blocks north of United Nations headquarters hold 8,000 sealed files containing a wealth of detail on Nazi war criminals and their crimes. 
The 146 gray cardboard boxes holding the files have be­come a focus of controversy over whether they should be opened to Israel and to Holocaust scholars. 
The sealed U.N. War Crimes Commission files had been all but forgotten for 40 years. They list the names of 36,000 Nazi war criminals, suspects and witnesses and background on the workings of the Nazi exter­mination machinery used against the Jews during World War II. 
The Nazi war crimes list in the files is closed. Access to the secret files is permitted to U.N. member governments only, who request the names of spe­cific suspects about whom they seek informatjon. 
The names listed make up a veritable "Who's Who in Nazi Germany," including Nazi leader Adolf Hitler, his henchmen Heinrich Rimmler and Adolf Eichmann, who di­rected the deportation of European Jews to death camps and who was hanged by Israel in 1962. Hitler and Rimmler committed suicide in 1945. 

The name that sparked the current controversy was an obscure ex-first lieutenant in Hitler's Wehrmacht -Kurt Waldheim. In postwar years, he rose to become Austrian foreign minister, U.N. secretary-general and, ul­timately, president of Austria. 
Waldheim's name is the 724th on the commission's 79th 
The Observer /Zoltan Ury 

Notre Dame graduates Jennie Salvador, a former Zahm resident, took their nuptial vows 

former Farley resident, and Chris Coene, a in Sacred Heart Church on Saturday. 
20 political prisoners leave Cuba 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Cuba has al­lowed 20 former long-term po­litical prisoners to emigrate to the United States in the past 10 weeks, sending them at the rate of two a week in an apparent attempt to avoid publicity, ac­cording to U.S. officials. 
The officials said the piecemeal approach appeared to be aimed at eliminating the tumultuous receptions that have accompanied large-scale prisoner releases in the past and have received extensive media attention. 
All 20 Cubans were released from prison last May following a personal appeal to President Fidel Castro by French under­sea explorer Jacques Cousteau, who visited Cuba in late 1985. 
The last two of the 20 arrived Wednesday aboard a weekly charter flight that operates be­tween Miami and Havana. The other 18 had arrived on earlier charter flights. 
In the past, mass arrivals in Miami of former Cuban prisoners have generated widespread attention. When a group of 75 showed up there last September, thousands gath­ered at the airport for the oc­casion, including high ranking city officials and Assistant Sec­retary of State Elliott Abrams. 
The State Department had expected the 20 Cubans and their family members to emi­grate last December, but Cuban authorities postponed their departure until the new year without explanation. 
Several weeks ago, the United States tried to persuade the 43-nation U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva to address the Cuba question, but a motion to kill the U.S. pro­posal was approved 19 to 18 with 6 abstentions. 

A report last year by Americas Watch, a New York­based human rights group, said Cuba has the most long-term political prisoners of any country in the world. In a 1985 
interview,  President  Fidel  
Castro said there  are  fewer  
than 200.  



We ....l..tarellle RotroiBro..• Sa•..••••• C.8t• ....taalo •I•••• ... Not Hou•
..__.a -L 11...a u ~Wo~M..._ .........., 
The Obsel"!er Is accepHng appllcaHons for the following paid positions: 
DAY EDITOR 
Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-.5313). 
master "List of War Criminals, Suspects and Material Wit­nesses (Germans, Italians, Bulgarians and Hungarians)." 
According to a photocopy of the confidential list obtained by reporters, Waldheim stood ac­cused by Yugoslavia of "mur­der, putting to death of hostages" during his unit's merciless campaign against Yugoslav partisans between April 1944 and May 1945. 
Waldheim's wartime role did not come to light until last year's heated election for Austria's presidency. Waldhim denied the charges, but allega­tions that he falsified his Nazi­era past was a key issue in the campaign. 
Following the disclosures on Waldheim, Israel demanded that the secret U.N. war Crimes Commission files be opened. 
U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar turned down the request after polling the 17 wartime allies who were represented on the commission between 1943 and 1948. With the exception of Australia, the former commission members favored continuation of the present closed system. 

Other diseases dwarfed by attention to AIDS 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-AIDS is dominat­ing the headlines but other sexually transmitted diseases still affect millions, including a virus believed to cause cancer that is "spreading in epidemic proportions," researchers say. 
Sexual contact has become the chief form of transmission of one form of hepatitis, a liver disease. And chances of getting such diseases as herpes, chlamydia, gonorrhea and syp­hilis are vastly higher than the odds of getting AIDS. 
"You don't die, generally, from gonorrhea or syphilis, and certainly not from chlamydia," said Dr. Jonathan Zenilman of the Division of Sexually Transmitted Diseases at the Atlanta-based national Centers for Disease Control. 
"But there's a danger of them getting lost in the shuffle. They are still very much im­portant health problems," he said. 
AIDS has struck more than 
33,000 people in the United States, so far killing more than 
19,000.  In  1986  alone,  12,049  
cases  of  acquired  immune  
deficiency  syndrome  were  

diagnosed in the United States, the CDC reports. 
But there were more than 13 million cases of other sexually transmitted diseases in that same year, according to CDC estimates. 
Last year's total included 896,383 reported cases of gonor­rhea, up from 883,826 a year earlier but down from 1,042,900 in 1980. Researchers say re­ported cases are the tip of the iceberg; the true incidence of gonorrhea is estimated at 2 mil­lion to 3 million cases in 1986. 
Other estimates include 4 million to 5 million cases of chlamydia, 1 million cases of genital warts from human papilloma virus, 500,000 new herpes cases and 90,000 cases of syphilis, Zenilman said. 

PEACE WITH JUSTICE WEEK 1987 
Peace With Justice Week was begun by the Asoociation of Catholic Colleges 
and Universities (ACCU) 1o promote dialogue on iBsues of justice and 
peace, with special attention devoted to Catholic social teaching. The 
week Is scheduled each year to include the April!! anniversary of Pope 
john XXJII'olandmark encyclical, "Pacem in Terrio" (1963). 
Mondav Aprll6 
"COD AND MONEY" 

7:00P.M. A 45 minute video which explores the Issues raised by the US. Bishops' recent pastoral letter on the U.S. economy. Following the video, there will be a dlscuaoion led by Prof. Drew Christiansen of Notre Dame's Department of theology. Place: Grace Hall Pit. 
TuesdAY Apri!7 

''EDUCATION FOR JUSTICE: IS IT POSSIBLE?" 
7:30P.M. Rev. Edward "'Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., PresidenH!lect of Notre Dame, will deliver an address followed by a panel discussion by selected Notre Dame students; there will also be time for general questions. Place: Washington Hall. Note: required tickets may be obtained free of charge at Washington Hall between 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 
p.m. April3, 6, 7. This event is part of the "Dialogue on Education" series. 
Wednesday Aoril8 

BISHOP THOMAS J. GUMBLETON 
7:00P.M. Reflections on the University's Lenten theme: ''God does not see as we see -for we look at appearances, but the Lord loolcs into the heart" (I Samuel16:7). Bishop Gumbleton is auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Detroit and President of Pax Christi, USA. Place: Sacred Heart Church. 
Thll!'Sday April9 

"PEASANT OF EL SALVADOR" 
9:00P.M. An award winning play which portrays the struggle of an aging hill fanner and his family against the backdrop of sweeping social and political change. This powerful drama has received standing ovations in 39 states and in London since its release in 1981. Reserved tickets are $4.00, available at the Center for Social Concerns (239-5293). Place: Washington Hall. 
Saturday April 11 

GREAT HUNGER CLEAN UP 
All day Stu~e~ts ~~ money to ~el~ alleviate hunger by partiCipating m commuruty unprovement projects. For more information, contact Sophia Twarog 283-2814, Richard Schwartz 283-3746, Mark Drajem 283-4104, or Sean Evers 232-9112. 
Peace With Justice Week at ~otre Dame is sponsored by the Network for Peace and Justice (NFPJ) under the auspices of the Center for Sodal Concerns. 



-~----------------------------~------­
"ieVV~_O_i_n__f_______________
M-onda-y,Ap-ril6_,1987--pa-ge7 
Unique emphasis sets economic program apart 
I wish to respond to Christopher Ryan's March 31 guest column concern­ing the quality of Notre Dame's graduate programs. In particular, I wish to respond to his citing the depart­ment of economics as an example of the kinds of concerns he has. 
Jurgen Brauer 
guest column 

Ryan mentions that a recent ranking of economics departments in this country found Notre Dame's at position 
121. Let me correct Ryan on two counts, and then provide a series of counter­arguments, ending with a plea to in­crease funding to the economics depart­ment instead of curtailing it as Ryan suggests. 
1. Ryan incorrectly states that the ranking was based on the four leading journals in the profession. The ranking he cites was based on twenty-four jour­nals ("American Economic Review" 47(4) :822-826). There is another study in the same issue of the AER (pp.827­
833) that indeed is based solely on the four so-called "leading" journals in the profession that doesn't rank Notre Dame at all for reasons explained below. 
2. Ryan misleadingly states that only articles published in the time period 1978-1983 were included in this study; in fact, the study cited is an up-date of an earlier study running as from 1974 where the department ranked lower 057). In other words, Notre Dame's po­sition relative to the earlier study im­proved. 
Let me provide a number of argu­ments of why Notre Dame is ranked as number 121 in the cited article, and why it is quite alright for the department to be ranked as number 121. 
1. 
Size of Department: Notre Dame's economics department is compara­tively small. Twenty professors naturally cannot be expected to turn out as many articles as, say, 100 pro­fessors at Penn State's economics de­partment. 

2. 
Faculty-Graduate Student ratio: Notre Dame's student! faculty ratio is high. At Yale a similar number of pro­fessors deals with half the number of graduate students that Notre Dame's department has to deal with. Naturally, Yale faculty have more time for re­search and publication activities. 


3. Specialization: Notre Dame's fac-
Doonesbury 
ulty is a specialized faculty. Faculty members specialize in three areas of economics: Public Sector Economics, Labor Economics and Development Economics. A specialized faculty ought to publish in specialized journals. To achieve a "proper" ranking of econom­ics departments (based on publications alone) would have to take specializa­tions into account. The second study that Ryan alludes to (the one counting articles in only four--out of hundreds--of the economics journals) is suspectible to this consideration. A specialized fac­ulty will rarely publish in "general" journals. Only a large faculty, in terms of the faculty/ student ratio, can be ex­pected to do that. In fact, the top rated programs exhibit exactly this charac­teristic of having a "large" faculty in this sense. 
4. 
Who is counted: The cited study also includes publications by members of other departments publishing in eco­nomics journals. For example, mem­bers of Penn State's business school, or of Wisconsin's statistics department, or of California's department of agricul­tural economics, or Chicago's law school, and so on, publishing in econom­ics journals will be counted as well. Since other schools often not only have a larger economics faculty than Notre Dame's, but generally also have larger business schools, law schols, etc., a dis­proportionate weight is given those schools. In fact, the authors of the cited study explicitly mention that their ranking does not take into account de­partment size and contributions from other f acuity ( p. 822) . 

5. 
The rankings do not take into ac­count faculty resources. For example, as a third article in the same AER issue points our (on p. 834), "salary incen­tives, secretaries, research assistance, teaching load, research amilor teaching assistance, age of the faculty 

read: experience " all matter. Unless one accunts for these, and perhaps other factors as well, rankings of economics depatment by publicaitons produced makes little sense to me. 

6. 
a. Christopher Ryan completely neglects to take Notre Dame's econom­ics department's intention into account. Our department deliberately decided about a dozen years ago to offer an eco­nomics graduate program that would emphasize issues of social justice and hence to develop a faculty competent in that area. Unfortunately, the eco­nomics profession does not reward eco­


nomics research connected to social justice or "political economy" issues well. That is to say that anything that is published in "leading " journals will have to be above average simply be­cause of the nature of the issues that some of our faculty members deal with. 
b. Notre Dame's economics depart­ment successfully competes -if I may believe our director of graduate studies in economics -with the top schools in the country. Students applying here also apply at Harvard, Northwestern, Cornell,Amherst, Princeton, Chicago, you name the school. They not only ap­ply; they obtain letters of acceptance, too. The ones that decide to come to Notre Dame most often cite our empha­sis on social justice as their prime rea­son for accepting. Some of us simply don't want to study at a "top-10" eco­nomics department. It's not the publications-measured reputation, it's not the amount of the stipend we get here (which is much smaller than at other schools); it's the promise to study economics with a social justice focus. 
Now, that last consideration, in my opinion, merits to be rewarded with more and not less -as Christopher Ryan suggests -alumni money. No other school in this country is able to produce economics Ph.D.'s that would reflect the social dimension for economics as much as our department does. That is also amply demonstrated when looking at the current economics graduate stu­dent population at Notre Dame. There is simply no other department at Notre Dame whose graduate students have been and are as involved in social jus­tice issues as the economics depart­ment. Since it is Notre Dame's explicit purpose to attract and produce people with that dimension in mind, it is inap­propriate to rap the economics depart­ment for doing exactly what Notre Dame supposedly stands for and even to threaten reduced funding. To fulfill Notre Dame's purpose more resources should be made available to the depart­ment of economics. Jurgen Brauer is a graduate student in economics. 
Assistance can correct inequality of pay scale 
Dear Editor: 
According to Paul A. Samuelson, Nobel Laureate and Institute Professor at MIT, and William D. Nordhaus, Pro­fessor of Economics at Yale Univer­sity: 
"The largest group to suffer from economic discrimination is women. Even year-round, full-time female workers on average earn only 60 per­cent of the earnings of a man of com­parable education and background. The pattern of earnings is clear. Thus, female college graduates earn about the same amount as male high school graduates. Although white males, for the most part, receive increases in an­nual earnings as they grow older, in­come profiles show that women in their late twenties earn as much on the average as do older women." (Economics 1985, McGraw-Hill p 626) 
Obviously, this quote does not originate from a "small, yet vocal fac-
Garry Trudeau 

P.O.BoxQ 
tion of women,'' as Chris Julka phrased it in his article of March 25. Economic discrimination is not the only type of discrimination that women face, but this seemed like a good starting point for Mr. Julka's education. 
If two like people are running a race in which one must carry a 100 pound weight, obviously the unencumbered one gains a substantial lead. If at some point we wish to correct this inequality of opportunity, the answer is not merely to remove the 100 pound weight. This will not work, because the other person already has a substantial lead. In order to address the unequal manner in which the race has been run heretofore, the person who was previously burdened must be given extra assistance. It is only in this way that equality of oppor­tunity can truly be achieved. 
I was deeply offended by Mr. Julka's insensitive and ignorant letter. I hope he can learn to see beyond his own per­sonal experience with student aid to the larger world around him. I feel he owes the women of the Notre Dame commu­nity an apology. 
Ruth Anne Bandzak Off-Campus 

Quote of the day 
"Success is not based on where you start, but where you finish." 
Bob Wieland Paraplegic Veteran Milwaukee Sentinel, Nov. 7, 1986 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief...... . ..................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor .......................... Mark Pankowski  Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager.......... Michael Whinon  
News Editor..  .. ................. Chris Bednarski  Advertising Manager ......... ~ ........ Melinda Chapleau  
News Editor ............. ................................. Jim Riley  Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke  
The Observer IS the Independent n~:~.vspaper published by the students of the Univers1ty  Viewpoint Ed1tor ~..  .. .............. Chris Murphy  Projects Manager............  ~ .......... Mark Mclaughlin  
of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary"s College  tt does not necessanty reflect the pohc1es  Sports Editor.  . ....... Dennis Corrigan  Systems Manager ............ ................. Shawn Sexton  
of the admm1strat1on of 811her 1nst1tutlon  The news IS reported as accurately and objectively  Accent Editor .. .. .. . . ..  .. Michael Naughton  Controller ........................................ Tracy Schlndele  
as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board.  Saint Mary's Editor..  . ...... Marilyn Benchik  Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton  
Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column  Photo Editor.............  .. ............. Jim Carroll  Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon  
~pace IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng  
op1n1ons on campus. through leners. IS encouraged  Founded November 3, 1988  


-----~----~---~ 
Accent 
The News was more hip than square 
CHRIS DONNELLY 7:30 with the entrance of the "Smoking Gun." A harmonica features writer opening group, The Robert Cray player was the only element mis­Band. They began with three sing from their blues perfor­WARNING:Those who dislike refreshing blues songs of their mance. For "Playing in the Dirt" 
Huey Lewis or his brand ofmusic own composition. Their songs Cray called out their 'new har­should stop reading this review combined the. solid blues style monica player' (Huey Lewis) to now. Those who like him and and high energy that are essen­take care of the problem. "Smok­
were unable to attend the concert tial to good blues musicians. Ing Gun" closed out their perfor­
should also stop reading in order The guitar solos in the first mance. It was tbe most enjoyed 
to avoid turning green with envy. song and throughout the set by the crowd. 
"Just another Sunday night in were excellent. After their Following long but typical
a South Bend," Is how Huey Lewis opening they played "Bad lnnu­wait Huey Lewis and The News described the show. It was anyth­ence", a powerful blues riff, fol­took the the stage. They were 
Ing but. Not every Sunday are we lowed by "The Last Time that I welcomed to South Bend by the treated to having one of Get Burned Like This." Robert roaring cheers of the crowd, and America's top bands perform In Cray took a moment out to give began playing their # I hit our back yard. Huey Lewis and the audience his guarantee that "Jacob's Ladder" from their cur­his band "The News" arrived In It would be a great show. He rent album Fore!. The excep­
South Bend Sunday afternoon; delivered on his promise. tional energy they put Into their six hours later they were playing The next set of songs came off first song was present through­for an exhuberant, near sell-out their record Strong Pursuader. out the whole concert. One crowd at the ACC. "Still Around", "Foul would have thought they were 
The concert began on time at Play", "Playing In the Dirt",and playing in Chicago or New York City, not for a relatively small 
of Lewis' songs. Several of the South Bend crowd. members even had their own 
When Lewis asked Notre Dame solo sections In some of the students if they liked sports, the songs. answer was an emphatic The concert ended on a rather "Yes!lll." He then opened imme­disappointing note (no pun In­diately into "Heart and Soul" tended). The finale consisted of from the Sports album. During a jam' session made up ofLewis, this rendition of the song and The News, The Tower of Power, many others Lewis left the center The Robert Cray Band, and spe­stage to his guitarist Chris Hayes. cial guest star John Fogerty. 
Hayes was by far the most ener­Fogerty's performance was a let­
getic person on stage, with the down. He played only a back­possible exception of Tower of ground part for most ofthe song. Power lead man Emilio Castillo. "Bad is Bad" and only sang brief­
About a third of the way Into ly. Considering he travelled to the show the audience was South Bend one would have ex­pleasently surprised by two pected he would have played songs that were sung acappella. more. Naturally, the first of the two was During the News' current tour "Naturally." In the second they a live album Is being recorded. 
wheeled a drum machine on This goes to partly explain why stage In a red wagon. After they there was so much audience par­Introduced the audience to the ticipation. Lewis gave the audi­new marvel ofthe music Industry ence the chance to sing (shout?) 
they began to sing "Bad Is Bad" many ofthe lines from his songs. with the drum machine supply­
The energy of the performers Ing the beat. These songs were 
and the audience encourgement a great addition to the prefor­made it a very enjoyable concert. mance. 
Huey Lewis told the audience The Tower of Power horn sec­
.. 
that "those who known me know tion added an element of brass I'll probably be back." Let's hope in the next set of songs. The the opportunity to see him In 
strong sax and horn back-up 
concert again presents himself. The ObservePMike Moran If he does return take my word
from the Tower of Power added Last night Huey Lewis proved that he is, Indeed, larger than life. a lot to the R&B sound of some 
it's a must see . 


• • .meanwhile~ two Catholic girls take on world of rock 'n' roll 
CHRISTINE GREGORY bounced from agent to agent could not find anyone who had our Catholic character that something but not passes, at KIM YURATOVAC like a beachball In a crowd. In even heard of Rhonda, hence "Steve" had so "admired" least not backstage passes. assistant features editors the process, though, we got the our doubt regarding her exis­before. names and details necessary to tence. 
We knew we had to find an We were on the verge of re­The following is a first in Ob­do some real snooping. 
Nevertheless, our editor did alternate route. We decided turning to The Observer office 
server history. What you are Meanwhile, at the ACC we 
(and still does) claim to have that using what was between and writing a scathing attack on about to read Is a documenta­tried to track down our contact, spoken with her on the phone. our ears would be more effec­
the unaccommodating securitytion of muckraking investiga­"Steve," (not his real name). We We decided mutiny was in order tive. and the attempt to curtail our tlvejournallsm. We, The Obser­left messages with every living as we embarked on our own We encountered roadies and freedom of speech when we ver Assistant Features Editors, (or at least breathing) mainte­
quest, the quest for Huey. other people your mother never found ourselves face-to-face were on a mission, a mission nance person there. Finally we Separating ourselves from 
told you about. We kept our dis­with "Rocky," (of course it's his from God, a mission to meet talked on the phone with Steve. our male editor, we summoned 
tance and asked a lot of ques­real name, would we make up
Huey. He sounded eager to meet us. our womanly charms and tions. Either they didn't know something as Insipid as that?).It was a journey that began He said we had nice voices and befriended an attractive 
the answers or they weren't tn It was Rocky that provided the 
with promises that turned Into expressed real interest In us un­looking security guard, any condition to reply. But by ultimate entree backstage and, betrayal and led to sordid til he found out we were Cath­T.L.(name changed to protect the end of the night, they all as a bonus, an Invitation to a encounters with the dregs of olic. Then he erupted into a his Innocence, and hisjob). T.L knew our names and our quest. "private" party.the rock 'n' roll world. The roar of sinister laughter that laughingly suggested that we 
rumors we had heard and the should should have warned us be "friendly" with the roadies. One security guard (who Backstage, we finally met and 
scenes we had imagined were of what was to come. We We thought this was a good deserves to remain completely got autographs from Huey and 
all true... thanked him for the tickets in­idea, until we met "Old Faithful" nameless) got to know us par­the boys, as well as· John 
It started with a routine stead, anticipating an effortless (her real name, she has no in­ticularly well. but not by any Fogerty and Robert Cray. But phone call to a press agent, opportunity to meet Huey. nocence to protect.) printable name. But not even that wouldn't satisfy us (or our Rhonda (we still haven't proven Our complimentary tickets he could keep us from Huey. abandoned editor). We had to that she exists, more about that were waiting for us at the box It seems that this young South We finally met Jeff (his real party with these boys. later... ) office. But, to our "Huey­Bend native makes a habit of name, we're never going to see To make a long story short 
We first asked for the usual worshipping" editor's dismay, getting herself backstage In a these people again anyway). He we didn't break any rules of complimentary tickets. Then his backstage passes were way that doesn't comply with pointed us in the direction of DuLac. But we did have a night we pressed for the ultimate -­nowhere to be found. Not only the rules of du Lac. We decided Mr. Big. the last man with back­for which many girls do break backstage passes. We were could we not find them, but we It wasn't worth compromising stage passes. He offered us rules. 
Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 8 -9 
Nazz moves to Stepan 
Battle of bands goes off without hitch 
KATHY SCARBECK features copy editor 

Upperclassmen remember the Nazz as the dark, smoke-filled basement of Lafortune that served as an intimate gathering place for aspiring student musicians. With the recent renovations of the student center and the need for a larger facility, the annual Nazz competition, billed as featuring "twenty two of the hottest acts on campus," was moved to Stepan Center. 
Last Friday night's battle of the bands, organized by Student Ac­tivities' Musical Entertainment Committee, was designed "to provide an opportunity for students to get Involved and show their talents," says Nazz competition co-chairperson Maggie Green. "The competition gives on-campus talent a chance to play music and have fun. It also gives experience. Some bands aren't well known, and if people are looking for good music, they can come to us and get names of the winners or just come out and see for them­selves," Green explains. 
Entrants were given ten minutes to perform and were evaluated on the basis of In­strumental and vocal ability, quality of material, stage pres­cence, and presentation. The panel of judges included an audio engineer, a former Nazz competitor, a representative from Student Activities. and a random student. Monetary awards ranging from $300 to $50 were given to the top five bands. 
Junior Tom Conforti of the first-place band Monarch, which placed fourth in last year's com­petition, says his band wasn't ex­pecting to win. "It was just an­other gig; it's not like we went in trying to win. We felt we would place," he comments. 
The students involved thought that the competition was very well organized. The playing time alotted to each band was cut from fifteen to ten minutes to al­low the five-hour production to end on time. In fact at one point 
' 'We started singing in the bathroom in Zahm, and finally took our act out of the bathroom and into the world' ' 
they ran five minutes ahead of schedule. "They were on time for everything. We were really pleased with the way things were run," Conforti adds. 
"The sound system was in­credibly well done," says Noble Levesque, alias Bill Bradley of the third-place band Bill, Bob, and Biff. Stepan Center, which is not known for working acoustic miracles, was chosen as the site for this year's competition be­cause of its size. The contest had originally been scheduled to be held in Theodore's, but the large number of entrants necessitated the change to a larger location. The date of the competition was consequently postponed, and some bands had to withdraw due to prior commitments, bringing the number of entrants down to fifteen. 
Levesque, whose group took 
second place in last year's con­test. describes his band's in­volvement in the competition: "We started singing in the bath­room in Zahm and finally took our act out of the bathroom and into the world," he says. "We'd played before in town and liked performing. We thought we had a pretty good chance of doing well," Levesque continues. 
Second place in the competi­tion went to the Belltones, an acapella group comprised of four women from the Notre Dame Chorale. Although the Bel­ltones is a traditional group within the chorale, there was no such group last year. However, the quartet was revived for per­formance this year. Fourth place went to the band Blank Genera­tion, and Word of Mouth took the fifth place position. 
Junior Eli Coats of the band Aztecs In Africa describes his reasons for participating in the Nazz competition. "Awhile ago It would have been good for the exposure, but now It's getting near the end of the year," he says, "It's a good chance to play in front of others. Other bands can see us, and we can see other bands and check each other out. We're not cut throat competitive. We just like to play." 


All My Children: Adam found Julie's diary with the notation about Ross and Natalie having an affair. Palmer asked Ross to be his best man at his wed· ding to Natalie. Jesse got to talk to the unseen Mr. Big. un­aware that he Is really Jesse's father. Coming: Joanna surprises Erica. Another World: Dr. Glazer was attacked but he was unable to Identify Chad as the attacker. Felicia joined Mitch, Michael and Donna In Mexico and dis· covered her mission was to distract the fat man. Michael spotted the boat and was con· vlnced his brother John was still alive. Mary decided to return to college. Coming: Quinn faces danger. As The World Turns:After ac· cepting the fact that Duncan was Beatrice's father, Brian went ahead with his plans to move permanently to Scot­land. Iva was concerned with Meg's apparently deepening Interest in Tonia. Barbara had a shocker for Hal. Coming: John has an apparent change of heart. Or does he? The Bold and The Beautiful: Material not available at press time. Dallas: J. R. and Bobby under· took a vicious custody battle with Cliff for the elusive I 0 percent of Ewing 011. Ray felt uneasy about having a teen· ager around the house. Donna went Into labor. Com· lng: Mrs. Scotrtfleld's decision causes an upheaval. Days OfOur Lives: Kiriakls set up a phony document stating he was sterile when Bo was conceived, making It impossible for Bo to claim him as a father. As Kiriakls planned, Justin found the document and showed It to Bo who reacted In shock and anger. Orpheus was upset at learning Olivia was falling for Roman. Maggie started her medical tests. Coming: Justin worries he may never win Melissa's love. falcon Crest: Angela told Wilkinson she'll support him for Attorney General lf he'll go after Tony for murder. Gabrielle accepted Chase's of· fer to be In charge of his wine operations. Angela sought a divorce from Peter. Coming: Maggie and Chase make a decision about their child's fu· ture. General Hospital! Alan and Monica were suspicious of Ed· ward's behavior. Tiffany told Sean she's sorry she seemed 
jealous over his attentions to Greta. Lucy manipulated Tony Into assuming the role of "rat· her" at her Lamaze classes when Jake bowed out. Rosa moved in with the Quarter· maines. Coming: Greta's 
predicament  causes  new  
problems  for  Tiffany  and  
Sean.  

Guiding Light: Chelsea was terrified that the strange at· tacks might continue and grow more ominous. Vanes­sa's insistence on auditing the company wasn't welcomed by everyone. Alan felt pressured by people to whom he had made promises that he now might not be able to keep. Coming: A new threat causes Chelsea to panic. 
Knots Landing: Karen be· came more suspicious of 
· Anne's motives. Mack realized he was In a no-win situation. Peter panicked at the thought that he might not get his dead mother's letter from Olivia. Coming: Gary realizes why Jill reacted as she did to the death. Loving: Shana became more distressed over Clay's actions behind her back. Lottie tlnally told curtis about her past with Eden. Curtis reassured her he would always Jove her. Things look bad for Steve. Coming: April has a good reason for appearing cold. One Life to Live: After Virgil showed her what her family's future would be without her, Vickie chose not to stay with Victor, Eugena, Tony. Samantha and Joe, but to return to earth instead. After hearing the doctor say Vickie was making a miraculous recovery, she panicked and tried to pull her life support. Jamie searched for the diamonds that Stick hid before he died. Coming: Tom and Clint walt for news about Vickie. Ryan's Hope: Lizzie turned down John's proposal. Rick was wounded trying to stop the holdup. Pat told Dakota that Melinda had three months to live and asked him to help persuade her to take radiation treatment. Concetta respected Melinda's right to do without the treatment. Jack fell while trying to help Zena. Coming: Jack finds an· other key to Zena's puzzle. 
Santa Barbara: Keith sugges· ted Gina framed Brick. Mason told Tori he worried that Cruz might discover the baby she's carrying is his. Julie tried to claim Pearl fathered her baby, but finally admitted the truth to Mason. Coming: Nikolas has a surprise for Tina. 
The Young ~ The Restless: Cricket was puzzled at the way Lauren and ,Danny acted towards each other. Jack remained suspicious that Vic· tor was behind Nikki's request to see Ashley. Steven got Ash· ley to open up more about her life before she got Involved with Victor. Coming: Nikki faces another desperate sltua·, tlon. 
-

1987 McNaught S.tmdtcare 
The Observer 
Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 10 

Sports Briefs 
Kathy Brienza of the ND judo club placed third in the women's lightweight division of the National Collegiate Judo Championship at Columbus, Ohio Saturday. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame Golf team placed lOth out of 16 teams in the Purdue Invitational this weekend, which was won by Miami of Ohio. The Irish finished with a 640 total in the 36-hole event that was shortened from its originally-scheduled 54 holes because of bad weather. Doug Giorgio led the Irish with a 158 total and Pat Mohar followed with a 159. Details appear in tomorrow's Obser­ver. -The Observer 
In NHL action yesterday, Winnipeg beat Calgary, 3-1, Washington squeezed past New Je~sey, 6-5(0T), Quebec topped Boston, 6-4, and Buffalo dnlled Hartford, 6-0. It was the New York Islanders over Philadelphia, 9-5, St. Louis defeated Detroit, 3-2(0T), Montreal whipped the Rangers, 8-2, Chicago overcame Toronto, 5-2, and Van­couver knocked off Los Angeles, 5-2. -Associated Press 
Yesterday in the NBA it was Philadelphia downing the Celtics in overtime, 106-104, the Lakers beat Denver, 126-118, Detroit topped Milwaukee, 125-107, and Golden State defeated San Antonio, 120-119, in overtime. -The Ob­server 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 

'National pastime' takes odd twist as baseball season opens in Canada 
Associated Press  
Toronto's  Jimmy  Key  is  
scheduled  to  throw  the  first  
pitch  of  the  1987  baseball  

season today, the first time Opening Day has started out­side the United States. 
Tim Raines, Bob Horner, Rich Gedman and Ron Guidry, all of them unsigned free agents, are among the missing as the season begins. There still was a question of whether major-league umpires would work or go on strike as contract talks continued yesterday. 
Rain and temperature in the mid-40s are forecast at Exhibi­tion Stadium, where the Blue Jays entertain the Cleveland Indians and Tom Candiotti at 
12:35 p.m. EDT. a crowd of more than 30,000 is expected to watch the two American League East challengers. 
About 90 minutes later, the traditional National League opener at Cincinnati will fea­ture the Montreal Expos and Floyd Youmans against the Reds and Tom Browning. 
The Reds game used to be the first game to start, leading a Cincinnati councilman who ' was so upset about Toronto's opener that he wrote a letter of complaint to Commissioner Peter Ueberroth and Secretary of State George Schultz. 
In other AL openers today, New York, with Dennis Ras­mussen, will be at Detroit, with Jack Morris; Texas, with Charlie Hough, will play at Bal­timore, with Mike Boddicker; Chicago, with Rich Dotson, wlll be at Kansas City, with Danny Jackson, and Boston, with Bob Stanley, will play at Mil­waukee, with Teddy Higuera. 
In the NL, San Diego, with Eric Show, will play at San Francisco, with Mike Krukow, and Los Angeles, with Orel Hershiser, will face Houston and Mike Scott. 
Reliever-turned-starter Stanley will pitch for Boston in place of Roger Clemens. Clemens, the 1986 AL most Valuable Player and Cy Young Award winner, ended a 29-day holdout Saturday. 
At the Astrodome, NL Cy Young winner Scott will be trying to repeat last season's performance, when he went 18­10 and led the majors with a 
2.22 earned run average and 306 strikeouts. Hershiser, coming off a 14-14 season in which he got little run support, and the Dodgers are hoping that Pedro Guerrero, Mike Marshall, Bill Madlock and Mike Scioscia have recovered from injuries. 
At Detroit, Morris will pitch against the Yankees, one ofthe teams that spurned him in his off-season free-agent search. Morris, 21-8 last year and the winningest pitcher in majors during the 1980s, became a free agent after the 1986 season and wanted to join either the Yankees, Minnesota, Philadel­phia or California, but he was turned down by each team. 
Morris wound up going to salary arbitration and winning a contract for $1.85 million. 
Rasmussen, 18-6, will start for New York in place of Rick Rhoden, acquired from Pit­tsburgh during the winter. Rhoden suffered strained rib cage muscles during spring training and may not pitch for another week. 

Tbe Obs«Yer Notre Dame office, located on tile third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Obs«Yer Saint Mary's oHice, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day cfassifieds is 3 p.m. All class1fieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $319 Lowest Scheduled AirFares to all of Europe. Call1(800) 325-2222 dept. 518. Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Wordproceaalng 277-8131 Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 UNIVERSITY RESUME Professional Resumes Student Rates Near the Mall  FOUND: PAIR OF GIAL'&WOMEN'S GLASSES THEY ARE PINK CALL 3651 IF YOU LOST THEM THEY WERE FOUND ON THE QUAD ABOUT 3 WEEKS AGO FOUND: BROWN PLASTIC RIMMED GLASSES ON WEDNESDAY, 411 AROUND 3:00 BY MORRISEY & LYONS. TURNED IN TO LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND. Thirty dollars cash, a bottle of Obsession perfume, a bottle ol Perry Ellis perfume, a canon camera, and make-up "LOST" from a 0402Campus View apartment Friday night. Now, we are just a little irritated that we give you a place to party and then you rip us off. You know who you are and you know where these things belong. We knoJN you can sneak our things back because you've already snuck them out. If we see our posses­sions again there will be no questions asked and maybe we will think it is safe to have another party. LOST: Gray and Blue Nike jacket on lyons Basketball Courts sometime be­tween Saturday morning and Sunday. If found", please contact Eric at 1695. Reward offered.  WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 683-8889 Need ride to CINCI this weekend. Call Joe 1725 GOING TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER BREAK? We need a ride there! If you can take two riders, please call Mary at 283-3726. We'll share all usual expenses. HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Residential Camp in Southwestern Michigan needs Program Directors, Instructors, Unit Leaders, Counselors, Cooks and Kitchen Aides. Call or write for information and applications. Camp Rosenthal, 3384 Clawson Rd., Dowagiac, Ml 49047 (616)424-5272. Call weekdays between 8:30 a.m.& 3:00 p.m. RIDER WANTED:Heading to New York 4116.Leave message 277-9870. CHICAGO-BOUND GRADSIII Female Roommate needed. 2 BrII bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1st. For more info: call Pam (312)348-6688,SMC '86  DRUIDS DRUIDS. TO-BE Sorry about the mixup · wind and cold have delayed our OPENING CEREMONIES to Tuesday night. Weat­herman says 40s and no wind, so we're cool. Robes and sacrifices obtained. Meet Tuesday night, 9:30, 2nd floor LaFortune. Bring white sheets just in case. Dress warm. Friends and beverages welcome. Ceremonies end at Stonehenge at 11 :00. Be there ... 1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Finane· lng available for all US states. LARGEST selection of CliMilonarch Notes in Michiana! Bu)I'Sell--textbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL???  SOPHSISOPHS!SOPHSI It's time to ... BEACON BOWL BEACON BOWL BEACON BOWL Wed, AprilS 9:00p.m. $1 per game Need Transpo?! Bus available-$2 Signups at Soph Office 2nd floor Lafortune Mon & Tues 2-5 SO'PHSi'S(iPHSi·so·PHs! 5 Reasons to BEACON BOWL: 1. Hell week is over. 2. $1 beverages. 3. Get to wear fashionable shoes. 4. Noone can bowl well. 5. $1 beverages. WEO-BE THERE! WED-BE THERE! ................................................................ SOPHSISOPHSISOPHSI Your class needs you for next year's JUNIOR COUNCIL Posilions available: dorm reps, social, liturgical, community service, publicity & Jr. Dogbook commissioners. Applica­tions available -Soph office 2nd floor Lafortune GET INVOLVEDIII  How can a team win from the armptt of Ohio? THE TRIBE REEKS! THE REDS WILL RULE IN '871 ········· ··············································· hey security officer, I think you're really cute, I'll take you up on the offer, --some chick who got chicken pox for her prom HEY MEL--why do you look so gumy? HELPI I NEED A AIDE TO ROCHESTER, NY, FOR EASTER BREAK. CALL TIM AT 1208. Clearwater memones-hellacious, flaming hotel, ho ho's, the tguana, you wear it well, making love to you was never 2nd best. party in Nashville, fuzzies, our 2 vagrants, cheeseburgers in paradise, flying oreos, oge. sausage, ham helper, beege, we left a whole case, oh yeah, sand dive, we love Canadians, so huh do you wanl to go home with me?, watch that stair, arigato gasi machta, hello-we would like to have you, we're off like a brides nigh1y, ragacious, fry day. Fruij, fruit loopyt ························· SMC-ND LONDON-ROME SUMMER PROGRAMS Beginning May 20 Organizational Meeting April 13, 7:00  
272-8336 \ LOST/FOUND I LOST: One pearl earring somewhere in  FOUND: Set of keys on car-dealer type key ring. Found Saturday on the Lyons Courts. Call Eric at 1695 to claim. FOUND One gold bracelet at the Soph­omore Cottllllon. To claim, call the Soph­omore class office at 239-5225 or Theresa at 4027.  FOR SALE Ad Trp PLANE TIX S.BEND-DC 4115­420 CALL MARY x3781  If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, if you are inter­ested in newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. The Observer  ................................................................ SSENIORFOAMALSENIORFORMA­FOAMALSENIORFORMAL'"TSHIRTS­TSHIATS TSHIATS TSHIRTS TSHIRTS"'GET YOUR SENIOR FOR­MAL TSHIRTS-A TIME TO REMEMBER­WHILE THEY LAST!CALL JIM1492 C3~~;·~~·d·L~~t;i~~~--~~--i.i~i;~·-o~;;;;si  pm 349 Madeleva Hall VIsa Pictures Available for Information call Prof. A.R. Black 284-4460(offlce) 2n-3726(home) SENIOR FORMAL CANDIDS ON DISPLAY:  
or between Lyons and LaFortune the first week of March. If you found It could you please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. Thanks. LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN AM219 OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY BRIENZA, 109 WALSH, 283-2699. Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3'26 at the post office at approximately 10:45  FOUND: 14K GOLD NECKLACE IN PRACTICE ROOM AT CROWLEY. CALL 3896 KEYS AND KEY CHAIN LOST SATUR­DAY NIGHT (31.301!7) ON REX STREET, ND AVENUE, OR AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4249111 PLEASE HELPIIII ESPECIALLY NEED THE KEYSIII  Doctoral academic gown,traditional, for medium build, with mortar board (size 7 &8). Best offer. Call 239-7638 during working hours. ································································ '76 FORD GRANADA LOW MILES. GREAT HWY PERFORMANCE. BEST OFFER. CALL TIM-x2m or x1207 ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER (I'M GRADUATING). CORRECTABLE. HAADL Y USED. BEST OFFER. CALL TIM-x2m, x1207  and Special Olympics NEEDS YOUIII HOT ICE HOT ICE HOT ICE ApriiB-10 noon Hagger Center, SMC BE THERE Even the Druids can't bring spring without Bond ... The Archdruid says, "Vee are powerlezz vlthout eem. Vee pray efery Zolstice zat B. David Lannert can surf/fa ze efll ov ze Drain."  Mary's College Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 scoo;;··o:veR·;.;·Ii.i:··;;i;~~-;·;;;;;;;;·t;~~i. to Lewis Scott Dupree's Top 10 Motor Oils & T elecopier uses No. 10-Mobil  MONDAY-FRIDAY SMC,HCC 10-1 ND.LAFOATUNE 2-6 ....................................................................... Smell-Dog, Tommy C, Roto, Mike "The Banger" Geraghty, Liz-Dog, and the Murph ..........·-·······-········· Way to go guys! We're on our way to the final four (well 64 maybe?!) Hey, but  
a.m. If found, please call Tim at x4073. LOST:LEVI'S JEAN JACKET, INSIDE LABEL"JOHN S. TULLY", VERY WORN  LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN SOMETIME WED. OR THURS.--GREAT SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE IIF FOUND PLEASE CALL ROSE 1319. THANKS!  TICKETS  Stop forging my signature, you brain­Drained fools. -The Archdruid  No. 9 -Send women's basketball stats ra··;:j:ie''P'eFisoN-·wiia···i='O"uN·o-·Mv  we're 2 for 2 and playing power basketball. Who will be our next victory???  
IN AND FADED. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW FRIDAY NIGHT MAYBE? THIS WAS GIVEN TO ME BY MY BEST FRIEND, SO PLEASE CALL KATY £1319 IF FOUND.THANKS.  FOR RENT  NEIL DIAMOMD TIX YOU WANT 'EM, I GOT 'EM FLOOR & LOWER ARENA CALL NEIL AT 283-3022  Matt B. Steve P. S O'B SCHNAUSS!i! Need ride to Indiana University -Bloomington weekend of Apr. 10. Call Miriam at 2687.  BROWN GLASSES OUTSIDE MORRISSEY-Thanksll You saved my llfel Please call4550 so I can thank you!! Gratefully, Excited and Sighted C3o··;;svci-ioi.."Go-·P'svci-ioilt···~~-·i;;e  SCARY ED: BEWARE of the flying bagi sisters-K, C, & J 1111 ... she speeds up and aims for SPINE­LESS MEN. If you can't PICK THEM UP, RUN THEM DOWN 1111  
were you at Campus View Friday? Did  6  bedroom  4-6  students  $400500  &  BEAUX  ARTS  BALL  PSYCHODELIC  
you have a few too many beers? D id  utilities. Security system 234 6688  CILA RETREAT DEADLINE IS TODAY  that  is  this  friday  nile  GO  
you accidentally acquire my 35mm Canon Snappy camera ? (The one with my spring break pictures and my friend's  SUM STOR:all belonings(incl fur)saf&Secure Bill M.2327416  PERSONALS  April 1 0-12/Moreau Seminary lnfo?Kris £1364-Margy£1315  PSYCHO ... PSYCHO ... PSYCHO ... PSYCHOI!! Need ride to CLEVELAND for Easter.  Please make a point to wish BRENDAN CAHILL  
birthday)  Everyone  makes  mistakes,  Debbie 2960  
you're forgiven, but please retum my camera -at least my film -please! 283­ FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  CAPP MAJORS REMEMBER  A"voN-·sp;i~(tS~;;;;;;~;--c~i~;;;·s~~~..$$$  a Happy 201h Birthday today!  
4428 or Holy CrOS$ desk SMC  8889  .  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  CAPPIOPMA MEETING IS  call 287-1032  -the Hobbit Fan Club  
................................................................ Lost one gray dally planner wb It my life  THIS TUES, APRIL 7 AT 6:45 PM IN THE  wvFi.AM·ii4:roNiC3i-irot.iri-ieA:L8uM  
- Is unplanned and chaotic lost it sometime Friday. Please call Dan at 1721.  WANTED  Bass guitar player sought for rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Mu­ LIBRARY LOUNGE THE SPEAKER IS WENDY A. CAIN OF COOPERS AND LYBRAND  REVIEW SHOW, KARA AND ANN WILL REVIEW THE NEW SMITHS DOUBLE ALBUM AND THE NEW SIOUXSIE &  Brian "Strongman" McHugh will try and live up to his name by proving that HE  
LOST: PAIR OF GRAY WOOL GLOVES IN LIBRARY 111111 If found, piNae call 3151 Lost one BA-ll Texas lnstrmnts Calcula­tor guide book approx. one month ago. If found call Dan at 1721.  SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATEA SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 361-4224  sical interests Include: Who, U2, Kinks, Rush, Zeppelin, Van Halen, Cars, Stones, BeaHes, Police. Please call pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 for more infor­mation.  ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE INVITED Happy belated birthday to MOLLY MAHONEY. Your sarcasm brings so much "sun­shine" to the Sports Dept.  THE BANSHEES LP. LISTEN FOR THEIR REACTIONS FROM 9-11 PM TONIGHT ON WVFII ;;;;;t,;,~-~~it;i;;Q"i~-~~-b~i-~~;-~;;;;;~~jj, o~~~--~m;··;;;;;,~~--i~;;;,r;i·M00··ii-'MA5 from HELL unite for chocolate lunch!  ALONE can handle all of the drinking and singing that the rookie lax players are supposed to do. He will also be talking all night long to anyone interested In hearing his theory on evolution. Crew quote: "I just ate my last cigareue."  

································································ ................................................................ ................................................................ 
The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 11 

Shooting percentages are fluctuating freely once again in this year's Bookstore tournament. 
Heptathlete receives another honor as Olyn1pic preparation continues 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The trophy collecting is over for Jackie Joyner-Kersee and the world-record holder in the grueling heptathlon is resum­ing her quest for Olympic gold. 
Joyner-Kersee and swimmer Matt Biondi were named Sat­urday as the U.S. Olympic Committee's Sportswoman and 
Sportsman of the Year for their the organization's House of 1986 accomplishments. Delegates meetings. The 24-year-old Long Beach, 
"I hope to continue to excel Calif., resident isn't wastingin athletics and make two of any time. my dreams come true, that is "I'm getting up early to be a win a world champion­(Sunday) to catch an earlyship (in Rome this summer) flight home," Joyner-Kerseeand to win a gold medal in the said. "I'm leaving early be­Olympics," Joyner-Kersee told cause I want to get back with the USOC dinner where the my coach (husband Bob Ker­awards were announced after see) and get into some serious 
training. This is my last ban­quet. It's been fun but it's not why I'm into athletics." 
The winners were among 79 
athletes nominated for the honor by their respective na­tional governing bodies. 
Spring Break 
Special 
SMC track places 9th in Manchester Invite 
By PATRICIA MCCABE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team finished ninth Saturday in the fourteen-team invitational in Manchester. Head Coach Jean Kerich said her team's performance in the meet, its second of the season, was both encouraging and gratifying be­cause of the competitiveness of the meet. 
"Times suffered because of the awful weather conditions and runners who were able to maintain their previous times were very successful," said Kerich. 
Performers in the field events excelled. Senior Megan McMonigle, returning from a year abroad, took first in javelin with an outstanding performance. 
Sophomore Jeannette O'Neill, who divides her time between track and softball placed second in javelin. 
Trish Skahan, also returning from a year out of track, placed a very impressive second in the triple jump and fourth in the high jump. 
A record was set in the 400 yard relay by Mary Cassidy, Margaret Cushwa, Maggie Daday and Kelly O'Brien. 
Skahan also broke a record with her second-place finish in the triple jump. 
Kerich said she was ex­tremely pleased with these results of the meet. 
"It's early in the season but if everyone continues to work hard and to their capabilities the season looks very posi­tive," said Kerich. "The team can be competitive if they con­tinue to show the willingness to work they have since spring break. 
"The season is very short and it's difficult to get in shape in such a short time." 
Saint Mary's travels again on Wednesday to Hope College for a meet. 
Leonard, Hagler meet in long-awaited bout 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Mar­velous Marvin Hagler and Sugar Ray Leonard will fight tonight in a match many people wish had happened several years ago and one some feel should not be held at all. 
Gr--------------~ 
TAN-~ 
&.Jn tmnrg sct:n 

Booth 
JMS PLAZA 

We cater to weddings
$2.50 each visit 4609 GRAPE RD, 
and rehearsal dinners. 
6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, IN 
Within walking distance to the
Bed Combo 
University of Notre Dame. 
$5.00 each visit 3 Bed I 3 Booth 6 visits for $27.00 $19.95 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: 
2n-1o2s 

~uth Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 

1B IW&ii ZdiiiAIIIIIJAI 
NOTRE DAME COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
B 'Nill[ 1M' liBCDJIIII'f 
FEATUIUNG FifTEEN BANDS ROll NINE STATES AND THE SPECTACULAR JUDGES" JAM FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 10-11, 1987 STEPAN CENTER 
TICKETS: 

7:30 FRIDAY NIGHT $'5 
1:00 SATURDAY AFTERNOON S3 
7:30 SATURDAY NIGHT  $4  
ALL-SESSION PASS  $9  
WITH STUDENT ID  $8  

TICKETS AV AILA8LE AT THE DINING HALLS THIS WEEK, A THE CELLAR, AT BONNIE DOON OUTLETS, AND AT THE DOOR. 
...MORE INFO: CALL••• *239-77'57 OR 283-2139* 
For several years it looked 
as if it would not happen, but 
it wouldn't go away. 
"If I had never fought Mar­
vin, it'd still be on my mind 
when I'm 60 years old," 
Leonard said. "I have to think 
he feels the same way ... for 
money, ego and pride, and it's 
Sugar Ray Leonard." 
"He wants the Leonard fight 
more than any other fight,'' 
said Pat Petronelli, Hagler's 
co-manager. "This was the 
fight that got away." 
Leonard's eyes have been a 
source of controversy ever 
since he announced last May 
that he would come out of re­
tirement if Hagler would fight 
him. 
Critics feel Leonard is gam­
bling with his sight. 
Some boxing people worry 
that if Leonard gets hurt, it will 
increase the pressure to ban 
boxing, which already is under 
fire from such groups as the 
American Medical Associa­
tion. 
"The sport is going to survive 
no matter what happens," 
Leonard said. He also has said, 
"I'm upset that anyone would 
think I would take an unreason­
able risk of injury." 
Leonard, who retired in 1982, 
was given a retinal examina­
tion by three eye specialists 
before the fight was announced 
in August. He also passed a 
retinal exam ordered by the 
Nevada State Athletic Com­
mission Tuesday night. 
"I'm not really thinking about his eyes," said Hagler, .who was a favorite to win the scheduled 12-round bout at a sold-out 15,366-seat outdoor arena at Caesars Palace. 
"He's the one that made the choice. ... My job is to defend the world middleweight cham­pionship." 
But should Leonard spring an upset in the fight, which will start about 8: 15 PDT, he would be recognized as champion only by the World Boxing Coun­cil. 
''This fight is not for money,'' Hagler said. "This fight is to see who is the best in the world." 

------~-~--~-~ 
rr---------T-h_e_O_b_s~er~v-er--~-------­
Poor hitting hurts ND, aids Wisconsin sweep 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Wisconsin, which entered this weekend sporting a team earned run average of six runs per game, allowed only four Notre Dame runs in four games, as the Badgers swept two doubleheaders from the Irish at Jake Kline Field over the weekend. 
The Badgers won Saturday's games by scores of 7-0 and 9-2, then took Sunday's doubleheader, 3-1 and 5-l. Wis­consin improved to 10-10, while the Irish fell to 7-14. The Irish have lost six consecutive games, and have a record of 1-7 since returning from their trip to Texas over Spring Break. 
"When you score four runs in twenty-eight innings, you're not going to win unless you shut out some people," said Irish head caoch Larry Gallo. "It was just a weekend where we got swept by a team that was better than us this weekend." 
In Saturday's first game, Irish pitcher Brian Piotrowicz looked good in general, but his control problems led to six walks in less than six innings. He kept the Badgers in check most of the way, as the Irish trailed, 1-0, after four innings. After two Wisconsin runners reached base on walks in the fifth, Badger centerfielder Mike Barker tripled and later scored to put Wisconsin ahead, 4-0. 
Wisconsin scored three more 
runs in the sixth inning to make 
the final score 7-0. The Irish 
had their share of baserunners, 
but received no timely hitting, 
and left ten runners on base in 
the seven-inning game. 
"We just haven't scored any 
runs for Piotrowicz," said Gal­
lo. "He is 1-3, and in the game 
he won we scored only three 
runs." 
While the Badgers had to 
scratch and claw for seven runs 
on just eight hits in the first 
game, they banged out seven­
teen hits in the second game. 
Irish starter Kevin Chenail al­
lowed six runs in three innings 
of work, as he was primarily 
hurt by a three-run Badger out­
burst in the third inning. 
Wisconsin continued to hit 
hard against relievers Tom 
Howard and Rob Kramer, com­
piling nine runs in the game 
despite leaving ten runners on 
base. 
the picture man 
Notre Dame's pitchers kept Wisconsin from scoring as of­ten yesterday, but even a slightly changed lineup could not provide enough offense for the Irish. 
In the first game, Irish pitcher Mike Passilla allowed one run in the second inning on a passed ball, and two more in the sixth inning on a home run by Badger first baseman Scott Cepicky. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, Badger starter Scott Fuller was doing an even better job in retiring the Irish batters. Notre Dame managed only one hit in the first three innings, and could not score until they got four hits in a final-inning rally. The Irish managed to load the bases and put the tying run in scoring position in the final in­ning, but Fuller made the Irish leave three runners on base and fall for a third straight time, 3-1. 
"Twice in this weekend we got four hits in an inning and scored only one run," said Gal­lo. "That can tell you in a nut­shell the kind of hitting we're getting." 
Hitting woes for the Irish con­tinued in yesterday's second game. Irish starter Tom Shaw, in his first appearance of the year, allowed no hits in the first four innings, but still trailed, 1-0, as Badger starter Eric Liebenstein also pitched no-hit ball in his first four innings. 
While Wisconsin's bats even­tually came alive, scoring two runs in both the fifth and sixth innings to take a 5-0 lead, the Irish hitting attack remained silent. Notre Dame managed only one hit, a fifth-inning double by Dan Peltier, until Pat Pesavento and Steve Skupien singled in another final-inning rally. 
"They (the Wisconsin pitchers) did a good job," said Gallo. "(But) Anytime your team scores runs early and you have a lead, it's easier to pitch.. 
The Irish, still searching for 
their first win at Jake Kline 
Field, next face Michigan State 
in a doubleheader at home to­
morrow. Action is scheduled to 
begin at 1 p.m. 
Todd Krumm, the same per­
son who intercepted two passes 
to beat Notre Dame's football 
team in the fall, leads the Spar­
tans in both hitting and pitch­
ing. 

will be displaying proofs from the Senior Formal 
Monday -Friday April 6 -1 0 Haggar Game Room 2 -5 pm, St. Mary's LaFortune 5:30 -8:30 pm, Notre Dame 
Prints from Sophomore Parents Weekend and Junior Par­ents Weekend can be picked up during this time, also. 

----------~--­
Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 12 
The Observer /David Fischer 

Tim Hutson attempts to bunt against Wisconsin Dame's winless weekend at left. this weekend. Steve Megargee details Notre 
Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday -Friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSTORE 
IRISH SPRING RUNS 
3 AND 6 MILE RUNS SUNDAY APRIL 12TH AT 1:00PM 
******************************** 
SPECIAL BONUS: WEAR GREEN AND GET 
$1.00 OFF! 
******************************** 

T -SHIRTS ---------------------------TO ALL FINISHERS TROPHIES ------------TO ALL 1ST AND 2ND PLACE WINNERS IN 6 DIVISIONS 
ALSO: DOOR PRIZES AND REFRESHMENTS 
DEADLINE: TODAY 
ENTER AT NVA $4.00 ADVANCE REGISTRATION $5.00 DAY OF RACE 

The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 13 
First-round action heats up 
Booketore Tournament 
Sunday'• Resulta 

Stepan 1 5 10" Guys over The Juneau Club by 4 Deathtongue vs. Len Bias, Don Rogers & 3 Other Guys Who L1ke to Play... by 19 4 Midgets and a Dwarf over Team No. 263 by 16 Team No. 471 over Team No. 154 by 5 Mojo Alain' II over Order On the Court by 5 Team No. 421 over Team No. 171 by 18 Digger Phelps & 4 Other Bab1es over Suzy Hangover & Weskend Wamors by 18 T earn No 4 72 over That Little Itch ... by 4 
Stepan 2 Team No. 45 over The Wing From Hell by Forfeit Hatchet Man & 4 Other Cutting Utensils over Flying Fubar 5 by 9 4 Guys and a Dog Named Newt over Team No. 1t3 by 19 
C.J. and the Rastafanans over T1mbcmania by 11 Pregnant Paul & lhe AmaZing Multi-Colored... over Liberace and His Aids by 2 6 Feet Under over Helecopter Splits, K1tty Litter 
by 10 
Stepan 3 Team No. 546 over Fourth of Vermin, 23·21 Package Workers Inc. over Fly Girl & the B. Boys by 12 Stand Up, You'll Do over Team No. 166, 24·22 Original Name Censored by SAB over Beve Seurle1n & 4 Other Guys ... by 2 4 Catholics and a Guy Who Can Use Birth Con­trol over Dr Bradel by Forfeit If You Fake It One More T1me ... over Mooksies Norkers by 16 Internationalists over 5 Guys Whose Portraits Have Been Censored... by 11 Se•y C Sections over Team No 547 by 14 
Stepan 4 Unidentified Grace Defenders II over Crib Death at Grandma's II by 18 Put It In the Hole, Ch1ef over Good To Go by 
8 
Play1ng T1ddly W1nk on the Veranda over Team No. 225 by 6 Fill It Up over 4 Guys W1th Ha1r by 8 4 O'so Harsh P1mpers and a F~reman over 3·B Zahm's All Bud Team by t 2 Heat Miser over Team No. 286 by 17 A•e Wounds '87 over We Have the Motor Skill of Will1am Casey by 19 NO Law over 2 Yanks, 2 H1cks, and a Hoos1er by 11 
Stepan 5 SSE and the Lollypop Kids over Ward, June, & 3 Others who Like... by 11 5 Hot Dogs with Assorted Condiments over The Old and Injured by 8 Team No. 307 over Team America by 17 Remember thai Keg the Pollee Took ... over We Want our ... by IS Team No. 303 over 4 Real Bogs & a Schmo by 9 Ros1e Palms •• Soccer Burgers over 1 Min· nesota & 4 East Coast ... by 11 The Goop Runs Again over The War Pigs by 14 Stepan 6 
Ball-headed Freakdaddies over Pippy Lopez & Other Cheap Shots by 8 5 Guys Who Are Willing to Take Responsibility ... over Necrophiliacs... by 3 Jumping & Jerking ... over John 3:16 by 12 Ronald Reagan, Liberace, & 3 Other Guys... over J. Eric Bouncing Ball by 11 Ollie North's Fan Club over Abelian Sub-Groups by 8 5 Guys Who Flow Like Rivers over Scum by 12 The Condos over Jo Goes Down by 19 
Bookstore 9 Just When You THought It was Safe over Puss by 12 Too Muckin Fuch over Put a Helmet on that Soldier by 11 Air Loomer over The Noel O'Sullivan Fan Club by 8 Watches, Rings, Crabs & 2 Other Things over Team No. 105 by 15 SOMFAW over Mr. Robinson Neighborhood by 15 What the Hell was Rasta Anyway over Wal· lpaper For the Mind by 13 
Bookstore 10 Willy Wonks ... over Transmittable by Contact by 10 Len Bias, Don Rodgers, ... over Acid Rain, the Pharmacist... by 16 The Edge over Just Get the Game ... by 15 All the Presidents Men over Friends of Chris Nanni by 11 Grandmaster Gash & the Stimulators over The Knight Shift by 15 The Awful Truth over Penetrators by 2 
Lyons 11 Law School Still ... over Team No. 120, 24-22 Too True to be Good over Lay Down, ... 5 Cannibalstic, Bolimic Fly People over Peen & 4 Guys Who... by 12 Phi Slamma Jamma over IS Will Get You 30 on a Repeat Offense by 11 The Uncoachables Ill over Scullyeosis by 5 Triple Entry over The Vomit Comets by 20 
Lyon& 12 Dick Vitale's All Universe Team over Team No. 490, 23·21 Party at Chips When We Repeat over 4 Virile Studs & Dennis by 14 Harmless, Pranks, Inc. over Plastic Love Wor· shippers by 14 We Just Can't Seem To Put It In over Four Guys... by 5 Antonetti's Revenge over Team No. 592 by 10 4 People and a Short Fat Guy over Men Without ... by 9 
Monday's Gamaa Stepan 1 
4:00 • Rogues vs. Okra 
4:45 · Skoad Men vs. We Could Play For Wag· ner 
5:30 • Team No. 397 vs. Gary's Kids 
6:15 • Friends of the Sea Otter vs. Team No. 333 
Stepan 2 

4:00 • The Masons vs. Team No. 372 
4:45 -We Better Play at Stepan ... vs. Society of Men Engineers 
5:30 -Ridiculous Relationship with Jackie vs. Team No. 313 
6:15 -Doctor Hasn't Retired Yet vs. The Return 
of the NBA Renegades Stepan 3 
4:00 -Liberace, Len Bias, and 3 Other Guys ... vs. Team No. 512 
4:45 · What the Puck vs. Wook Masters 
5:30 · Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers vs. Lee's Barbecue 
6:15 · Still Clueless vs. PI Mesons Stepan 4 
4:00 -Dr. Huck & Fair Pies vs. Chaotic Oscil­lations IV 4:45-Actus Reus vs. Team No. 312 
5:30 -Bon Jovl (Livin' On a Prayer) vs. Nigerian Head Banging X-Men 
6:15 -Team 451 vs. Grape Ape and 4 Big Bananas 
Stepan 5 4:00-Holy Rollers vs. When She's Open She'll Taka the Shot 
4:45 -The Legend of the Bearded Smurf vs. Eddy & the Cruiser 
5:30 ·A Coach, a ... vs. We Pack E•tra Baggage 
6:15-Crocodile Jungee vs. Towe Toppers Stepan 6 
4:00 -The Troll, Stumphead, the Rest of the Freak Show vs. Team No 376 
4:45 -Fat NO Chicks, Iran, & 3 Other Unex­plained Scandals vs. Scum Bubbles 
5:30 -Revenge of the Molton Lava & The 4 Hot Rocks vs. lnnsbruck Irish 
6:15 -4 Macho Meats & A Tostada Grande vs. Team No. 334 
Bookstore 9 

4:00 Vig, Bick & Theiny vs. Ex-NBA Quasi Scholars and Jocks 
4:45 • Jus' Tofu vs. Screaming Midgets From Hell 
5:30 • Olliver North & 4 Other Innocent Guys vs. Big Fat Chicks on a ... 
6:15 • Invisible Touch vs A Chimp & His 4 Bananas 
Bookstore 10 

4:00 • 4 Cool Guys and a Sooner vs. Corporate Raiders 
4:45 · Herbie & 4 Other Misfits vs. Skid Row Swallows 
5:30 · E•·MBA Proposition 48 Intellectuals vs. Gee, I Don't Know 
6:15 -Fire Eaters' A Quest For Fire vs. Team No. 211 
Lyons 11 

4:00 Armed & Dangerous VI vs. Furous Five 
4:45 · Freddie P. Come Home vs. If You Don't Like Us, You Don't Like Guys 
5:30 • No, We Can't Dunk vs. Mr. & Mrs. Marty Bullfrog 6:15-4 Ex-Cheerleaders and a Nerd vs. Open Hoop Shooters 
Lyon& 12 

4:00 • Team No. 206 vs. We Don't Need One 
4:45 • 5 Girls From Idaho ... vs. The Trtchotomics 
5:30 • Spuds vs. Team No. 213 
6:15 ·The Ordsred Chaos of the Human ... vs. If That's All We Get We'll ... 
MEDICAL 
SCHOLARSHIPS: 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide: 
• 
Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses. 

• 
The cost of required books and supplies. 

• 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes. 

• 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please. 


Participation in the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not involve any military training nor does it require wearing of a uniform. Your academic routine and lifestyle will remain the same as other medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: 
• 
Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. 

• 
Be a U.S. citizen. 


• 
Be in excellent health and good physical condition. 


For more information, Call: 1-800-221-5932 
ADMED004 

Cereal 
continuedfrom page 16 
Home, but came out of the con­test soggy in a 21-6 loss. 
Also, Moses and the Four Red Sea Men were drowned by Tri Kookie Pie and Four Real Eurofags in a contest in which both teams were comprised of members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. The final score was 21-17, and one member of the Sea Men donned his tuxedo for the game in order to save time between the end of the contest and the Club's Spring Concert later that night. 
Several top teams took the court on Saturday, including Da' Brothers of Manhood, who easily defeated Damian Lebamoff 21-11. Manhood, playing without the services of Tim Brown who was at a track meet in Bloomington, got six points from Joel Williams and five from Donald Royal in the win. 
Carte Blanche, featuring former Irish hoopster Jeff Peters and future Irish football player Tony Rice, looked ex­tremely impressive in their demolition of Team No. 611, 21­
3. Peters shot 7-of-8 from the field and Rice was 8-of-13, in­cluding a game-ending, two­handed, 360-degree slam dunk. 
Verkler's. Construction, 21-6 winners in Tuesday's Hall of Fame Game, had similar ease in annihilating the Rock and Roll Beach and Brew Crew, 21­
3. This game featured the hot­and-cold hand of Head Coach Lou Holtz, who, after coming up empty on his first six shots, canned three straight, and dished out some pretty behind­the-back passes to teammates. Former Irish forward Jim Dolan went 9-for-12 and pulled down eight rebounds. 
In other impressive outings by top-seeded teams Saturday: Who's Next. ..Who Cares routed Five People who Just Want to Roll Around in the Mud, 21-7; Tequila White Lightning plucked Chickens Make Lousy Housepets, 21-6; and The New Order ended Oral Roberts Death Watch, 21-8. 
Moving to Sunday's action, Party at Chips When We Repeat, formerly Lee's BBQ Roundhouse II, took the first step toward defending last year's Bookstore title with their 21-7 drubbing of Four Virile Studs and Dennis. Lee's shot 21-of-33 for the game, a blazing 65 percent. 
Monk Malloy led All The President's Men onto Bookstore Court 10 against Friends of Chris Nanni and came away with a 21-10 victory. Malloy struggled through a 2­of-15 shooting effort, and ad­mits that this is a good sign for upcoming opponents. 
"I think that my showing today proves that I am a com­plete non-threat in this tourna­ment," said a beleaguered Malloy after the game. "My advice to future opponents is to double-team one of my team­mates and to leave me alone. I held my own on the boards, but I couldn't hit from the outside." 
Fellow President's Man Zack Schrantz saw the game as just an off-day for the University President-elect. 
"He's a good player," said Schrantz, "he just wasn't hit­ting today. He certainly did a great job of shutting down (Friend of Chris Nanni) Bob Liddy. Shooting isn't every­thing." 
The tournament's first seeded casualty fell yesterday as Put It In the Hole, Chief knocked off Good to Go with surprising ease, 21-12. With Good to Go gone, other seeded teams must now be on the lookout for hungry opponents looking for their moment in the sun. Tournament Commis­sioner Steve Wenc expects a few more seeds to topple as the caliber of play improves. 
"I wouldn't be surprised if we lose two or three more seeds by the end of the next round," said Wenc, in his second year as tournament commissioner. 
In other action on Sunday, an undermanned Deathtongue squad buried Len Bias, Don Rogers, and Three Other Guys who Like To Play In The Snow, by the score of 21-2. Death­tongue, playing with only four men, was led by the 10-of-11 shooting of Fred Botek and the flawless 6-of-6 performance of Steve Morse. Also: Uniden­tified Grace Defenders III smothered Crib Death at Grandma's II, 21-3; Ball­Headed Freakdaddies bid adios to Pippy Lopez and other Cheap Shots, 21-13; and ND Law indicted Two Yanks, Two Hicks, and a Hoosier, 21-10. 
First round Bookstore action will continue today and run through Wednesday, as the field of teams narrows en route to An Tostal weekend. 
The Co-op Advantage 
UIC's 

MBAConsider the benefits of your MEV\ from UIC. 
A program that works with you: 
Gain management experience 
while earning a salary through 
co-op. You'll enhance your resume and you could land a great job. Excellent teachin and research in 11 concentrations comple­ment your co-op learning experience. 
A dynamic location for learning and living: Chicago's exciting business environ­ment is in our front yard-and our backyard. Our campus is easily accessed by car and public transportation. 
A valuable alternative: Chicago's only state-supported, AACSB-accredited MBA program helps you reach your goals without losing your shirt. 
For details, 

write or call 312-996-4573. 
a;Jt.=TY 
~ CtOCPUO 

The MBA Program (M/C C177) 
College of Business Administration 
Box 4348 

Chicago, Illinois 60680 
·­

The Observer Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 14 

Defense 
continuedfrompage 16 

the day were made by Ned Bol­car, who stopped a drive on fourth-and-goal from the one and finished with six tackles, and Mike Stonebreaker, who led all tacklers with eight stops. 
Although there wasn't much scoring, there were some offen­sove bright spots, particularly from fullbacks Braxston Banks and Pernell Taylor. Banks had 10 carries for 74 yards. He scored the the No. 1 offense's only score on a one-yard plunge and also scored on a 75-yard shovel pass and run from No. 3 quarterback Pete Graham while the No.3 offense worked 
against  the  third-string  
defense.  
Taylor  also scored  while  

working with the third unit on a 74-yard run. Taylor finished the day with nine carries for 135 yards. 
"I thought our backs ran as well as they have since we've been here," said Holtz. "Defen­sively some good things hap­pened, but we can't give up the long run like that. I don't care if we have the ninth unit in there, we don't give up the long run at Notre Dame." 
QUESTION #4. 
Junior Terry Andrysiak ran the No. 1 offense against the No.2 defense. Andrysiak com­pleted five-of-six passes for 93 yards and one interception. He led a 75-yard scoring march on the final series during which he completed a 28-yard strike to Reggie Ward. 
"I thought Terry did real well for the first time out," com­mented Holtz. "He made a few bad decisions, but he's a win­ner. In that last drive he stayed in there until the last second before he threw the ball." 
Steve Belles directed the second unit against the No. 1 defense, which Holtz jerked for a few plays following an in­auspicious start. Belles finished with two completions on eight attempts for 18 yards and an interception. Graham completed five-of-eight at­tempts for 118 yards in making a strong bid to move up on the depth chart. 
"Overall, I thought it was good scrimmage," Holtz said. "I was disappointed with the number of times the ball went on the ground. I'd say we're ahead (of last year). I thought our offensive line was good and physical, a little more aggres­sive." 
SMC falls to Butler twice 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The St. Mary's softball team lost two games Saturday at Butler University, but not with­out a fight. Both of the disap­pointing losses were decided by only one run, 4-3, and 5-4. 
In the first game, with pitcher Elizabeth Pokora giving up only one walk, the Belles fell just short. Senior J anine Adamo led the Belles in 
· the first game. Adamo went one-for-two at the plate and contributed five putouts and one assist in the field. 
"We've been beating our­selves," said Saint Mary's coach Scott Beisil. "Ability­wise we have the best person­nel and pitching staff, but right now our intensity is lacking for a full seven innings." 
The second game, with Pam Shelor on the mound, required eight innings before Butler fi­nally downed the Belles. Saint Mary's played the game with­out all-district nominee, Amy Cutie. The centerfielder suf­fered a broken arm and had to be taken to the hospital. 
"Amy always gives 150 per cent and is a real hustler," commented Coach Biesel on the injury. "We will miss her." 
Marge Reynolds was two-for­three at the plate and senior Kris Pantelleria went one-for­three with four putouts. 
Biesil noted that lack of out­door practice time has hurt the Belles so far this season. 
"Little miscues, such as mis­sing the bag on a put out have hurt us," Biesil said. "Given more practice outdoors we will soon be able to pull out the close games.". 
Beisil says he looks forward to the games with the teams in the Belles' district. 

WHEN SHOULDTHE COLLEGE STUDENT WLFAMILYAND FRIENDS? 
a) 
During weekends until 5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm to 8 am Sunday through Friday, to save over 50o/o off AT&T's weekday out-of-state rates. 

b) 
The minute your bank statement reveals a negative $60 balance. 

c) 
Between 5 pm and 11 pm, Sunday through Friday, to save 38°/o off AT&T's weekday out-of-state rate. 

d) 
With AT&T, any time you want a clear long distance connection. 

e) 
When you hearthey've removed the mysterious "Venetian Blind" ritual from your fraternity initiation. 


You've just aced the calculus exam that you'd been dreading like the plahrue. Your date last night told you she had an "out­of-body" experience. Your roommate's joined a new cult that worships luncheon meats. 
When you're away at school, there are a million rea~ sons to stay in touch with the pe9ple Y?~ miss. And there's no easier way to do it than with AJ'J,iM't0n~Distanee ·. · · Between our discount calling periods and our everyday high quality service, the best time to call with 'l:fBLongDistance 
~is anv time vou want to sav "Hello," or "Guess 
. 

Wol!Mationtgiveus aeaH at 
"Then the girls will see that .... they can be succussful," he 
said. 
The Belles will have a home game Wednesday against Val­paraiso. 

AT&T 
The right choice. 


~c:tcJlC3L~----------------------------------------M-ond_a_y,_Ap-ril_6_,19-87---pa-ge--15 

Book Fair this week at the Little Professor 7:00 p.m.: University Counseling Center ACROSS 
1 Pool shot
Book Store, University Commons Workshop for Seniors. Theme: Financial 
6 Affirmatives 
(Indiana Road 23, near Kroger's). When planning. Topic: Personal Budgeting; 10 Celt sales slips are deposited in the designated speaker: Michael Boehm, financial con­14 Unaccompanied J.,.,...-+-4-­box at the store, a percentage will go to sultant. Topic: Insurance; speaker: John 15 Folk knowledge 
16 As to
the Ladies of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Lloyd, Lloyd Insurance Agency. Topic: 
17 Snake 
Scholarship Fund. Banking; speaker: Dana Key, Notre 
18 Pelvic bones
Dame Credit Union. CSC 19 Vex11:45 a.m. -1:00 p.m.: Economics depart­
20 Exclamation 
ment development workshop with Leo of annoyance
7:00 p.m.: Father Malloy and Father
Despres, ND, 131 Decio Hall 21 A US vice
Beauchamp meet with foreign students, 
president
12:00 p.m.: Thomas White Center on Law ISO Lounge 24 Western and Government lecture, "The Common state capital 
26 Black cuckoo
Good and the Formation of Public 8:00p.m.: Concert, The Music of Ethan 
27 Highest point 
Policy," by Michael Novak, American En­Haimo, sponsored by the ND department 
29 Carers of terprise Institute, 122 Law School of music, Washington Hall cattle 33 Change
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: SMC Peacemakers' 8:30p.m.: Theodore's presents Steve Mar­34 Stares with "Pacem in Terris Week" video and dis­mel with an opening act by Michael Todd open mouth 
35 Lubricant
cussion of "Women for American for the from Minneapolis, free 
37 Pace
World," Carroll Auditorium 
38 Saltpeter 
39 Height: pref. 
4:00p.m.: Career and Placement Services 9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, <et987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
40 Ike's command 4/6/87
presents a "Career Planning Workshop," "Open City," 1945, IYW, 109 minutes, di­41 Martinque All Rights Reserved by Ms. Joan Mcintosh, Career Counselor rected by Roberto Rossellini, Italy, An­volcano 42 Out of line 5 More cheery 
in the Career and Placement Services nenberg Auditorium 
43 Precious stone 6 Linda Lavin
Conference Room 
45 Utterly fool-role ish people 7 Egg part
4:30 p.m.: Lecture, "Today's Interna­46 Chronic 8 Amerind tional Accountant," given by Ricardo Dinner Menus drunkard 9 Sailor 
47 Poker term 10 Kind of
Moca, VP International, Ernst-Whinney, 
48 Music style magazine
Miami, sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi, 122 
53 Entire 11 Dye plant 
Notre Dame

Hayes-Healy 56 Tennis great 12 Writer Gardner 
57 Ireland 13 Sly look 
Until5:00 p.m.: Applications for commis­Salisbury Steak 58 Small water 22 Sugar suffix 
plants 23 Finislles
sioners are due, 2nd floor LaFortune, SAB 
Cheese & Macaroni 

60 Slight 25 Molding
office 
Filet of Flounder J ardinere 61 Satisfy fully 27 Swiss river 62 Gr. letter 28 Dish
Gyro Sandwich with Tzatziki Sauce 
7:00 p.m.: Shakespeare Club film, 
63 Elves 29 Despised"Throne of Blood," the Japanese "Mac­64 Ending for 30 Sword beth" directed by Akira Kurosawa, Engi­Saint Mary's gang or mob 31 Well-known 
65 TV's Buddy -hymn 42 Flatter 50 Freshwater
neering Auditorium 
32 River to servilely fish 
Roast Turkey DOWN the Danube 44 Glacial ridges 51 Mild expletive
7:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, 
1 Vehicle 34 Liquid measure 45 Not well 52 Ceremony
Fettucini with Mushrooms 
"Bananas," 1971, color, 82 minutes, di­2 Grief word 36 Moos 47 Foolish 54 Tardy
Beef Stew 

rected by Woody Allen, USA, Annenberg 3 As low as 38 Tidy condition blunder 55 Tilt Auditorium 
Deli Bar you can go 39 Like 48 Reckless 59 Football 4 Bill 41 Malay sailboat 49 Fjord city position: abbr. 

"Yrm've h(l(( foo IIIIIch fodt-iuk, lef 111e dr-ive." "Nobody dr-ives 111,11 car but 111e." 


DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN Kll· A FRIENDSHIR 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"A1·e you OK fo d1·it•e!" "What:.; a.f(•w hee1·.~r· 
"Did ,11011 hat•e foo IIIIlCh fo d1·iuk(" "1'111 JH'1.1('cf/yfiue." 
"An• !JIIII iu auy.~hOJX' fo drit•e(" "/'t•e ltet•erj(>/f lwffe1:" 
"/ fhiuk you't•e had aj(•w fiHI /1/auy." "Yrm kiddiu,l mu d1-ive ll'ifh 111,11 eyes closed." 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Bloom County 
7V PINNEf<5 Wt"!(f Wllfi'MW WHite THf! 511(f5jf5 OF ~ 
KIJI/!7 ~t.IJWt.Y 61/Vf UI'IY 10 1l£ 611/IMP C/JMRJI?r OF ttflltE 
CtJMI?IIfJeRY, 

Beer Nuts 
A/110 NOW IT!; N[WS 
-IN C/ll'1f'rl5 NH.J~ ToDA'I­11HE AT IVLSD, SERVING NOTRE IJAf1£, ST f1AR'IS, AND ABoVl ~. u~ 
I 


(l 
0 

Campus 

Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
£1/WTVIIUY, CONVtKS!fTTON Tl/KNfP 11J 1liE 50/?rOF 1H!NGS 1111l?05fftT!V&, 5BV5tnV€ MeN 
/llt.K 11{!()(/T OVEK WIIRM K(}(Jr Be!R:J !IT z:JJ 11.111.... 

Mark Williams 
In the early days, living in their squalid apartment, all three shared dreams of success. In the end, however, Bob the Spoon and Ernie the Fork wound up in an old silverware drawer and only Mac went on to fame and fortune. 
The Daily Crossword 

Monday, April 6, 1987 -page 16

S~orts 
Bookstore first round weathers conditions 
By PETE SKIKO game, was not without post­and BRIAN O'GARA game comment. 
Sports Writers "It's a shame that two top teams like these have to meet Chilly weather and biting. in the first round," said Mon­winds did not stop hundreds of tanaro of the two squads which 
Bookstore Basketball XVI 

Bookstore Basketball games shot 23-for-108 and 21-for-106, from taking place over the respectively. "I think my weekend, and, as usual, the Riversesque passing got us caliber of play ranged from through. I'm sort of the coach outstanding to mediocre to on the floor." downright ridiculous. Obvious first-round jitters 
Friday's low temperatures kept both squads on the court and brief periods of snow even for over an hour and a half, but led scorekeeper Tad Becchetti Air Loomer captain John to comment, "It was as cold as Loome had a different reason the teams I was watching." Be­for the length of the marathon. cchetti was on hand for a for­"We found that there were feit, and a team that literally too many good-looking chicks coated themselves with watching us, so obviously we various breakfast cereals for were a little nervous," said the their game. team's namesake. 
On Friday, Air Loomer, In other action on Friday, 
featuring former Student Body Guys That Coat Themselves IDJI Vice-President Don Mon­With Breakfast Cereal did just !1\!!1!81111i11111111111111!!1._1!1li1111J tanaro, squeaked past Beer that against Freddie P. Come Bonging Baby Boomers of Bud 
Bookstore Basketball XVI is in full swing now,
and Old Swill, 23-21. Mon­

despite some arctic conditions. Brian O'Gara 
tanaro, who shot 2-for-14 for the see CEREAL, page 13 
and Pete Skiko run down the action at left. Yes-
Irish track team qualifies several for IC4A, NCAA meets 
By MOLLY MAHONEY accomplish what we set out to Chuck Curley threw 50-3 to ifying time-of 14.1. Both Watson the 5,000-meter run with times Sports Writer by winning two of the three finish fourth. and Brown missed qualifying of 14.43 and 14.45. In a close meets and qualifying several Junior Rick Muench's jump for the NCAA championships finish, senior Robert Nobles Saturday in Bloomington, the guys for the NCAA's and the of 6-8 earned him third place by less than a second. ran 1.54 in the 800-meter run to Notre Dame track team ran in IC4A's." and sophomore Joel Autry Freshman John Brannigan place fourth and his running­three dual meets concurrently, The Irish did well in the field finished third in the triple jump and junior Paul DuVair placed mate, sophomore David 
winning two, against Cincin­events with freshman Tom with a jump of 13-6. fourth and fifth, respectively, Warth, finished fifth. nati and Bowling Green and Kraus and junior Brian Dris­Notre Dame's crew of in the 400-meter hurdles with Both the 1600 and 400-meter losing one, to Indiana. coll contributing strong perfor­sprinters, led by juniors Tim times of 56.76 and 56.78. relay teams placed second, 
Points were also converted to mances. Brown and Tony Ragunas, per­Junior Rick Mulvey turned in losing the race to the tape with the quadrangular scoring sy_s­Kraus has become a consis­formed well. Brown won the an impressive performance in the Hoosiers. tem and the Irish finished tent force in both the shot put 200-meter dash with a time 20.9 the 3,000-meter steeplechase The Irish accumulated second behind Indiana. and discus. He qualified for the and Ragunas placed fourth in winning the event in a time of enough quadrangular points to 
Braving strong winds and IC4A championships in two the 100-meter dash finishing in 9.22 and freshman Tom tally victories over both Cincin­cold weather, the Irish were events by placing second in the 10.9. O'Rourke finished in 9.42 to nati and Bowling Green but In­able to qualify several for the shot put with a toss of 16-9 Freshman Yan Searcy's finish fourth. diana eventually emerged the IC4A and NCAA champion­meters and placing third in the time of 49.8 earned him fourth The distance crew helped the overall victor. ships but times were con­discus with a throw of 48-9. place in the 400-meter dash. Irish do well in the field of "Indiana is a very good siderably slower than usual. Driscoll dominated the Freshman hurdler Glenn strong competitors. Junior Dan team," said Piane. "Losing to 
"It was cold and the times javelin competition with a Watson outran his competition Garrett and sophomore Ron a team that is third in the were not the best," said Head throw of 59-7 despite the wea­once again by winning the no­Markezich ran two third and country is nothing to be as­Coach Joe Piane, "But we did ther conditions and sophomore meter hurdles in an IC4A qual-fourth places, respectively, in hamed of." 
Defense is dominant in first FB scrimmage 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN and snared two interceptions. Sports Editor Outside linebacker Rod West had the interception and one 
The first scrimmage of this fumble recovery, while Ted spring's practice presented Fitzgerald fell on a loose ball Head Coach Lou Holtz with an to halt another drive. George unusual surprise. His first and Streeter also had an intecpe­second team offenses failed to tion. 
Spring Football '87 

score until the final series. "Some (of the fumbles) were 
"I've never had a (first because of some good defen­scrimmage) where the number sive plays," said Holtz. "There one or number two offense were some good open field didn't score until the last se­licks, but at other times the ries," said Holtz. level of concentration was not 
But bad news for the offense very good." 
meant good news for the Irish Some of the hardest hits of Terry Andrysiak and the first-team offense had defense. The defense their problems in Saturday's scrimmage. The recovered two-of-six fumbles see DEFENSE, page 14 

The Observer /David Fischer terday's results and today's schedule appear on page 13. 






