Absurder -Inside 

the independent student newspaper sen·ing :'\otre Dame and Saint -'far) 's 
Informal student farewell for Hesburgh tops HPC agenda 
have someone check forBy REGIS COCCIA to announce plans for a student mass, with Father Hesburgh liberal than yours. We have 
picnic commemorating Has­celebrating," he added. what I believe to be a preamble Dartmouth IDs, to keep high
Assistant News Editor 
school students and outsiders
burgh's retirement. "We're Dr. Steve Nelson, director of statement which says we are 
out," Nelson said. 
An informal student farewell planning a picnic for Father student activities and the col­all responsible for one an­"We keep alcohol away from for University President Fa­Hesburgh from the students," lege center at Dartmouth Col­other," he said. 
athletic events as much as pos­ther Theodore Hesburgh and a Cooke said. "It's going to be lege, spoke to the council about "We tried to steer clear of sible,'' said Nelson. ''There aredifferent perspective on vital for us to get publicity for the differences between the state law," Nelson said. "We 
this through the HPC. campus alcohol policy at do have a party registration levels (at Dartmouth) where if campus alcohol policy were you break a regulation, you get featured at Tuesday night's "It's going to be May 1, to Dartmouth and the one in­format which requires fined or even go before the con­Hall Presidents' Council thank Father Hesburgh for his stituted here at Notre Dame. whenever alcoholic beverages are served, non-alcoholic duct board," he said, noting
meeting. 35 years of service," said "I'm impressed and I'm en­Student Body President-elect Cooke. "We thought it would be joying my time here," Nelson beverages must also be acces­
SEE HPC, page 7 
Pat Cooke spoke to the council appropriate for us to have a said. "Our policy is a bit mote sible. We require all parties to 


·Baby M's custody awarded to father 
Associated Press throughout the entire reading of the judge's ruling. They 
HACKENSACK, N.J. -A clutched each other when the judge awarded custody of Baby custody decision was an­M to her father Tuesday and nounced. stripped surrogate mother Sorkow said the Sterns had Mary Beth Whitehead of all pa­shown a stable, secure, loving rental rights to the child she relationship, the ability to pro­bore under a $10,000 contract. vide financially and psyc­
In the nation's first judicial hologically for the future needs ruling on surrogate parenting, of the baby and "an ability to Bergen County Superior Court make rational decisions in the Judge Harvey Sorkow upheld most trying of circumstances." the validity of the contract on "The Sterns live a private, the grounds that just as men unremarkable life," the judge have a constitutional right to said. "Mrs. Whitehead seems sell their sperm, women can not to have found the time for decide what to do with· their family therapy sessions while wombs. making herself and her Immediately after William children available to the 
Stern won custody in the media." landmark case, his wife, Sorkow also said the Sterns Elizabeth, adopted the year-old would better be able to explain 
baby, whom they call Melissa. to the child her unusual begin­The child has been in their care nings in the years to come. while the case was argued. The judge said the 
Sorkow ordered Stern to pay Whiteheads' life has been Mrs. Whitehead the $10,000 marked by domestic and mari­agreed to in the contract. That tal instability and that Mrs. money had been held in escrow Whithead has been shown to since the contract was signed. "impose herself" on her two 
Mrs. Whitehead, who had other children. vowed to appeal, awaited the "Too much love can smother ruling at her home after visit­a child,'' Sorkow said. ing with the baby earlier in the The judge, who made no The Observet1lamian Chin day and then stopping at a provision for Mrs. Whitehead church to light a devotional ever to see her daughter again, 
Judges in the sixth annual MBA Invitational terday afternoon in the Center for Continuing 
candle. condemned her as impulsive Case Competition listen intently as the Notre Education. Notre Dame placed second in theThe Sterns held hands in the see CUSTODY, page S Dame team presents its corporate strategy yes-competition to Ohio State University. 
crowded, locked courtroom 


Senator Tower to lecture tonight 
By JIM RILEY "He is heavily involved in He began the investigation News Editor one of the biggest issues in into the National Security Washington, D.C. since Council's activities in late 
Sen. John Tower, chair­Watergate," said John 1986. man of the Tower Commis­Gormley, chairman of the Tower also served as a sion, will lecture tonight at ideas and issues committee U.S. arms negotiator until 8 in Washington Hall. of the the student activities April 1986 at the strategic 
Tower recently submitted board. nuclear arms negotiations the report of the high-level "Of all the investigators, with the Soviets in Geneva. Tower Commission. The he probably knows the Formerly a Midwestern report has been described as most," said Gormley. University government pro­being critical of Reagan for Gormley said he had fessor, Tower took over Lyn­not being more in charge of worked with the agency that don Johnson's senate seat the Iran-contra situation, arranges Tower's appear­after winning a special elec­but it said he did not know ances before, and he was tion in 1961. Tower chaired of the contra-money connec­able to book Tower before the Senate Armed Services tion. his schedule was filled. committee and the Senate 
The report came down Tower retired from the Republican Policy Commit­
hard on Oliver North and senate in January of 1985. He tee. 
other Reagan aides. has been called a 
Tower's lecture will be "statesman-at-farge," of­Tower will hold a press 
titled "National Security in fering advice and service to conference at The Morris 
an Open Society." the Reagan administration. Inn at 4 p.m. 
Reagan endorses AIDS education and abstinence 
Asociated Press abstinence." 
He stressed the theme of 

WASHINGTON -President abstinence and said that he Reagan gave his endorsement supported instructing children Tuesday to AIDS education in about AIDS and how to avoid schools but said children also it "if you say it's not how you should be taught that sexual do it but that you don't do it." abstinence is the best way to Reagan said that education avoid the disease. which does not offer instruction 
"We want an all-out cam­about proper values is wrong. paign," Reagan said, respond­Earlier Tuesday, White ing to reporters' questions at a House spokesman Marlin state dinner for visiting Prime Fitzwater said Reagan "is fully Minister Jacques Chirac of informed" about the AIDS France. epidemic but acknowledged 
Asked whether he thought that the president wants to stay children should be taught about out the debate about preventive the dangers of the AIDS measures. Fitzwater said the epidemic, Reagan said, "Yes, president ''thinks AIDS is a I think so -as long as they teach 
see AIDS, page 6 

one of the answers to it is 


The Observer Wednesday, April 1, 1987-page 2 

In Brief 
A chronic speeder from New Buffalo, Mich., in a hurry to get from Canada to Chicago, was stopped three times for speeding in one day. It would have been cheaper for him to fly. Trooper Peter Rahm said the 37-year-old Montreal resident was stopped in Van Buren County on Saturday after being clocked at 93 mph. He also was stopped outside Benton Harbor, where he allegedly was driving 83 mph, and near New Buffalo, where he was timed at 80 mph. The man got three speeding tickets and was cited twice for not wearing a seat belt. One major airlines charges $197.13 for a one-way, coach seat from Montreal to Chicago. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Lenten Reflection Series continues tonight at 7:00pm in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. Fr. James Burtchaell will offer personal reflections on the University community's Lenten theme: "God does not see as we see --for we look at appearences, but the Lord looks into the heart"(l Samuel16:7). -The Observer 
Bacchus will sponsor two more events tonight. The first event will be a showing of the movie "Caddyshack" on the South Quad, weather permitting. Weather location is Theodore's. The movie is at 9:00 pm. At 10:00 pm, in Dillon Hall, Indiana police will demonstrate field sobriety tests on alcoholically-impaired students. -The Observer 
Hunger Clean-up sign-ups will be held today in the dorms and dining halls, and Thursday at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame cheerleaders will be featured on WVFI's Campus Perspectives tonight from 9-10 pm. The cheerleaders will attempt a cartwheel on the air. The show is hosted by Chris Shank and Colleen Doyle. -The Observer 
NMMC Charity Ball will host two events today. At 5: 15 in Sacred Heart, there will be a Mass dedicated to the hungry of the world. At 8:00 pm, there will be a mandatory meeting for all committees and dorm repre­sentatives for this year's Charity Ball. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. -The Observer 
Sophomore Class bowling night will be held tonight at 9:00pm at the Beacon Bowl. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sophomores are welcome. -The Observer 
A pie eating contest, hosted as part of the Engineer's Week, will be held today in front of Cushing at 3:15pm. The Egg Drop contest will follow at 4:00pm. -The Observer 
"Aid to Nicaragua: Public and Private, "will be the topic of a talk by Sonia Garcia, Nicaraguan Director of External Cooperation, who is visiting Notre Dame from Managua, Nicaragua. Citizens from South Bend are es­tablishing a sister city with San Carlos, Nicaragua, as part of people-to-people aid to offset the effects of the war. The lecture will be held in the New Orleans room, 1st floor LaFortune, at 12:15 pm today. -The Observer 
David G. Vaisey, the librarian of the Bodleian Library at Oxford University, will give a slide-illustrated lecture on "Some Treasures of the Bodleian Library," tonight at 7:30 pm in the Library Auditorium. -The Obser­ver 
SMC Hall Elections: there will be a mandatory meeting tonight at 8:00 pm on the 3rd floor of Haggar College Center for all those interested in running for hall office for 1987-88. All four members of each ticket must attend. -The Observer 


Weather . 
*•o ••ooo•l 

Mother Nature offers her own brand of April Fool's Day humor, more like a sick practical joke. Sixty percent chance of snow today, cloudy, and a high in the upper 30s. More clouds and cold tonight and tomorrow with a forty per­cent chance of light snow. 
-----_ _ _ _ _ .L~Yl _____
---Ihe-Ob.se"'~er---
Derign Editor ........... JaneAnne Riedford Viewpoi~., Layout .......... Cathleen ~~or an Design Auiltant ............. Andy Fenoglio Accent Copy EditoT ...... Tricia Chambers Typesetters . . . . . . .. ... . . . . Becky Gunderman Accent Layout ............... Cathleen Moran Newa EditoT .................. Ann Kaltenbach Typists ............................... Esther Ivory Copy Editor ......................... Joe Markey ND Day Editor .............. Chris Hasbrook Sports Copy EditOT ............ Brian O'Gara Ad Design ........................ Dave Culligan Viewpoint Copy EditOT ....... Sara Marley Photographer................. . . Damien Chin 
Tille Oblencr (USPS S99 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblencr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tille Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S.S6. 
Tile ObllerYcr is a member of Tille Aaodaled Pras. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Gullibility 'used and abused' in April Fools' Day pranks 
April Fools' Day is like Valentine's Day. Everyone recognizes the occasion, but its origins are not universally known. According to the Encyclopedia Britannica, this custom origniated in France after Charles IX adopted a reformed calender in 1564. "A person who resisted changing the New Year's Day from April 1 to January 1 was victimized by pranksters." In France an April Fool came to be known as a poisson d'arvil (April Fish), while in Scotland a fool is regarded as an April Gowk (cuckoo). 
At any rate, this is the day when everyone's gullibility is used and abused. Having a twin brother or sister is a lot of fun on the first day of April. I felt like I had all the power in the world when, in the first grade, my twin sister and I confused our teachers (very important "significant others" in the lives of seven year olds). That year I had the best April Fools' Day of my life. I was convinced that my teacher, Sister Valeria, lost the part of the Wicked Witch of the West in the "Wizard of Oz" because she was too mean for the role. Meanwhile Jackie's teacher was reminscent of Glenda the Good Witch of the North. We continued this practice until we were in the fourth grade. (At that time my mom was my teacher, and we figured she probably wouldn't fall for the cute Bobsey twin routine.) 
Normally I don't consider myself to be a prankster, but through those few childhood ex­periences, I realized just how gullible people can be. The realization of having been duped is one of the strangest emotions a human being feels. First, a vulnerability has been exposed, so the person who has just been "had" naturally becomes defensive. This person will experience hot flashes of anger against the teaser. After this emotional outburst, the anger will become self-directed rather than other-orientated. Ba­sically, the gullible party, after being found out, feels extreme overall frustration at the entire world. 
Most of the fun of April Fools' Day comes when the teasers can see the fruit of their labors by embarrassing the gullible party to death. Often times, this embarrassment will surface in the form of extreme blushing. 
Everyone falls into the "gullibility trap," some more often than others, but no one thinks it will ever happen to him or herself. A classic example of someone falling prey to this trap occurred when one of my uncles had told my grandmother the statue on top of the Golden Dome was not actually the Blessed Virgin, Mot-
L..--__....
_~_,...._----~1 '--1_BU_Y_O_B_SE_R_V_ER_C_L_A_SS_IF_IE_D_S___ 
Summer Sessions at 

Indiana University at South Bend 
: May 18-June 29 July 6 -August 14 
For your copy of the schedule call 237-4455 IUSB Admissions Office 1700 Mishawaka Avenue 


Applicationsfor the 1987-88 staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
The deadline for all applications is April 8th. 
,....,....---:: 

&.AOU S1"Amt>N her of God, but, in fact, Knute Rockne in a raincoat. Yes, she believed him. I recall vivdly how I laughed about it the first time I heard this, story, and I thought I would never fall for a line like that. I never did.fall for a line like that, but, much to my disdain, I have fallen for others. Now, I think it's enough for me to admit my past mistakes. It is not necesary to publish them because I'd blush too much when I read 
this over again. 
In a day when everyone tries as hard as pos­sible to affect an attitude, it's nice to see people observe a day when it's socially acceptable to kick back and let the little kid come out. 
Probably most people will be careful not to fall for corny April Fools' jokes, but, undoubt­edly, everyone will fall prey to those mongers, who have a knack to find everyone's gul­libilities, at one time or another. Please take this advice to heart for the next time you may happen to fall for a line: go through the typical anger and frustration moods and then plan your revenge on the jerk who set you up. Remember that everyone has a weak spot, so don't get mad, simply get even. 
Wednesday, April1, 1987 -page 3

The Observer 

Harvard professor notes increase in technical quality of public policy 
By THERESA HAR­RINGTON 
News Staff 
In the finale of the Distin­guished Visiting Scholar Series Dr. Harvey Brooks, professor of technology and public policy at Harvard University pre­sented a lecture Tuesday night titled "What to Do When the Experts Disagree: Technologi­cal Decision Making in aDem­ocratic Society." 
Brooks focused on the in­creasing technical content of public policy and political is­sues. He also discussed the im­portance of scientific evidence, scientific judgement and the in­terpretation of scientific data in legislative, judicial and ex­ecutive decisions, as well as in political debate. 
According to Brooks, there are several models of interac­tion between policy makers and scientists. They ranged from independent research fol­lowed by recommendations to Congressional committees, to options influenced by preferred policy outcomes. Each of these models have weaknesses and strengths, but as Brooks said, "not one best approach clearly dominates ... (and) what is needed is variety and ex­perimentation" of them. 
One possible cause of weak­ness in the models, according to Brooks, is the relationship between scientists and legisla­tors that has emerged in the last 10 years. As Brooks said, "in the U.S. Congress the push to success seems to rely on be­coming an expert in certain areas. Therefore, they rely heavily on experts ... who exag­gerate what they know because they are flattered by politicians interested in their specialty." 

Within Congress, Brooks said, there is "strong pressure to develnp scientific rationale for their decisions'' though in­dividual scientists may come to very different policy recom­mendations which may be un­duly influenced by their own political views. 
Brooks said he advocated continued improvement of ''reports written in response to requests by Congressional committees ... (because) high degree of selectivity makes for higher quality of studies." 
The Observer Is alwayslqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 

V• •t• h J The ObserverA>amian Chin 
lSI 1ng sc o ar Dr. Brooks, professor of technology and public policy at Harvard University, spoke at the Library Auditorium last night as part of the Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series sponsored by the 
G.T.E. Foundation and the Program in Science, Technology and 



This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 

C41GOGREYHOUND 
~Amleavethedriving to us~ 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I. D. card upon purchase. No olher discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and Olher participating carriers. Cerrain restrictions apply. Offer effective lJli'Kllhrough 41.3M!7. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. l'l 1987 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
Values . 



TwoSMC professors selected for endowment 
By COLLEEN HARTY 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's Associate Pro­
fessor of English Anne Loux 
and Associate Professor of 
Humanistic Studies Gail Man­
dell have been selected for the 
Lily Endowment Faculty Open 
Fellowships for the 1987-88 aca­
demic year. 
Loux and Mandell are among 
10 faculty members from inde­
pendent four year universities 
and colleges in Indiana chosen 
for the fellowships. 
The awards allow teachers 
whose needs and aspirations 
might not be met by more con­
ventional fellowships to pursue 
work-study and research proj­
ects of their own design. 
"This is like being able to 
dream," said Loux. "This 
grant is really exceptional. It's 
a personal development grant 
-a grant that asks you to dream. 
It's only sometimes that you 
actually get that chance," 
Loux said. 
Mandell said she feels that 
an endowment of this sort al­
lows one to become a better 
teacher. "One is able to pro­
pose a research project which 
other institutions don't offer," 
she said. 
"The Lily endowment crosses disciplines,'' Mandell said, adding, "It takes you beyond the traditional re­search areas in your field." 
Loux said she will devote the endowment to fiction writing or a personal history entitled ''Chicago Mississippi'' about growing up in Mississippi. She said she plans to illustrate that "growing up in Mississippi is not that different from growing up in Chicago." 
Mandell said she plans to study the question of biography as a form of writing. Mter reading biographical works and talking with biographers, Mandell said she will report her findings in a pamphlet. 
"My ultimate aim is to write a biography on someone and this endowment will help me to decide which one," Mandell said. 
----~--­


The Observer Wednesday, Aprill, 1987-page 4 




New Pizza in Packs from ,_ Pizza Hut® Delivery! 
Now you can enjoy your favorite pizza twice as much. Get two 14" Family Size Pizza Hut® Pizzas in our new 'IWin Packs, delivered hot and fast to your door for just $10.99. A SAVINGS OF OVER $6.00! 
And what's more, you know Pizza Hut® quality goes into every pizza we deliver. So give us a call, Pizza Hut® Delivery is going all out to bring our best ­home to you. 
Hours: 
11:00 
AM· 12:00 Midnight Sunday· Thursday 

11:00 
AM· 2:00AM Friday· Saturday 


Our Pizza '!Win Pack Offer! 
'IWo 14" Family Size Pizza Huf Pizzas For Just$ 
' 
e e SAVE OVER $6.00 
Now save on toppings, too. Additional toppings at $1.29 per topping covers BOTH pizzas. For two 14" Family Size Pizzas you pay only: (With Coupon Below) 
Cheese .................... $10.99 3 Toppings ................. $14.86 
1 Topping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.28 Supreme (6 Toppings) . . . . . . . . 14.86 
2 Toppings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.57 Super Supreme (9 Toppings) . . . . 16.15 
For Fast Delivery Call: · 

232-2499 
'5> 19H7 Piz1..a Hut, Inc Limited Delivery Area
r---------------T---------------1 
1 'IWo 14" Family Size Pizzas! 1 'IWo 16" Party Size Pizzas! 
1 I $}0 99 TWo 14" Cheese Pizzas-$10.99 I $}3 99 Two 16" Cheese Pizzas-$13.99 I 
1 • Additional toppings at $1.29 1 • Additional toppings at $1.89 I SAVE <WER ss.oo! per topping covers BOTH pizzas! SAVE OVER ss.oo! per topping covers BOTH pizzas!
I I I
Valid only at participatin~ Piz1..a Hut'"1 Delivery units in Valid only at participatin~ Piz1..a Hutc!f) Delivery units in
I South Bend, Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in · I South Bend. Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in 1 or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in ~ or carryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid in ...a comhination with any other Pizza Hutr"> offer. $15. cha~c 1 comhination with any other Pizza Hut® offer. $15. char~e ~ I
I 

on all returned checks. ~ @ on all returned checks. nl"'78 
: C;;tto;ly2312m~2499h4/16/H7 ~Uf® : C;;tlt2312m~2499h4/16/87 ~tit® : 
I'IX7 1'111"1 llut In, Ilur .lnw" (;JrH "" mur,· th.an S:!ll I :!tiC ''"h rn.km("llull ,·,tlu,· l.illllh'J J..l1wn ,1r,·.1 ..L •I 'lXI l'11.1.1 llut. Ill< Ilur Jnwn< (diT}' "" mor.· 1h.1n $:!11 I :!II< (.tSh n·Jt·mpllon \'Jiu,·. l.nmt,·J Jl'itva)· ar~a. .J


L ' -----------------------------­
The Observer 
Custody 
continuedfrom page 1 
and exploitive and said she either selectively omitted in­formation or lied outright during testimony about aspects of her life. 
''This inability to tell the truth establishes a tarnished ... environment" for raising the child, the judge said. 
Mrs. Whitehead, who was ar­tificially inseminated with Stern's sperm, said she realized during thP baby's birth March 27, 1986, that she could not give up her daughter. 
She refused her $10,000 fee and fled to Florida with the in­fant when the Sterns obtained a court order giving them tem­porary custody. For 87 days she moved from relative to rela­tive, until authorities tracked her down and returned the chubby, blue-eyed girl to the Sterns. 
The Tenafly couple iie a 41­year-old biochemist and she a pediatrician sued for per­manent custody, setting the stage for Tuesday's landmark decision. 
The precedent set by the judge's ruling applies only in New Jersey, but will have im­plications for other courts, re­ligious leaders, politicians con­sidering laws on the issue, adoption advocates, potential surrogates and childless couples. 
The child's court-appointed guardian, attorney Lorraine Abraham, recommended that the Sterns get custody and that Mrs. Whitehead be denied visitation rights for at least five years. 
The three-month trial stirred up a worldwide debate over surrogate parenting. Oppo­nents maintain the practice amounts to baby selling and ex­ploits women, while supporters endorse surrogacy as one way for couples to achieve paren­thood. 
The Vatican condemned sur­rogate motherhood last month, saying it "offends the dignity of the right of the child,'' and some feminists picketed at the courthouse to support Mrs. Whitehead, saying that no mot­her should be forced to give up her baby. 
The same argument was made by attorneys for the 29­year-old Brick Township homemaker and mother of two other children. They told Sorkow that surrogate parent­ing should be outlawed because no woman can be expected to agree to give up her child before she even conceives. 
Attorneys for the Sterns con­tended the surrogate agree­ment reached Feb. 6, 1985, was valid because all involved knew what they were signing. But Mrs. Whitehead testified she did not read the contract until after the custody battle began. 

The Observer Is accepftng applications for the following patd positions: 

Typists 

Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-S313). 


ND freshmen opinion revealed 
Special to The Observer 
Most Notre Dame freshmen oppose legal abortion, want to raise families, and believe that couples should not live to­gether before marriage, ac­cording to a nationwide sur­vey of freshmen entering private universities. 
The survey, conducted last fall by the University of Cal­ifornia at Los Angeles and the American Council on Educa­tion, also found that incoming Notre Dame freshmen were more likely than freshmen at other private universities to describe their political views as "conservative." At Notre Dame 33.5 percent were will­ing to accept that label com­pared with 26.8 percent of their counterparts nation­wide. 
Highlighting objectives they thought "essential or very important," a slightly larger percentage (77.3) of Notre Dame freshmen chose "raising a family" than did their counterparts at other private universities (72.5). 
Fewer freshmen at Notre Dame (30.9%) believed that couples should live together before marriage than in the national average, where 46.7 percent tolerated premarital cohabitation. 
Notre Dame freshmen seem more enthusiastic about "developing a philosophy of life,'' with 56.7 percent of them listing that objective as essential or very important as compared with 50.8 percent of incoming freshmen at other private universities. 
Significant disparities be­tween freshmen at Notre Dame and freshmen at other private universities occurred in answers to a survey ques­tion about legal abortion. In the national average, 57.0 per­cent agreed "strongly or somewhat" that abortion should be legalized compared with 29.4 percent at Notre Dame. 
In a related matter, more Notre Dame freshmen (31.1% compared with 28.3% in the national sample) favor aboli­tion of the death penalty. 
In both the national sample and at Notre Dame, a majority of mcoming fresh­men seem to believe that "nuclear disarmament is at­tainable," although Notre Dame freshmen are 4.1 per­cent more optimistic than those in the national sample, where 52.9 percent responded affirmatively to the question. 
More Notre Dame fresh­men (94.7%) were graduated in the top 20 percent of their high school class than their peers at other private univer­sities, 71 percent of whom had achieved equal academic rank. Of Notre Dame fresh­men, 48.7 percent were graduated from high school with an A or A¢ average, com­pared with the 28.9 in the na­tional average. 
Notre Dame was the first university chosen by 84.2 per­cent of its incoming fresh­men; in the national sample, 
72.8 percent were enrolled at their first choice. 
Notre Dame freshmen seem more hopeful about their post graduation employ­ment prospects than fresh­men at other private uinver­sities. At Notre Dame, 81.6 percent expect to find a job in their preferred field com­pared with 72.8 percent in the national sample. 
In at least one respect, the hopes of 25.3 percent of Notre Dame's freshmen have been dashed by now. That portion of the incoming freshmen class estimated that "chances are very good" that they would join fraternities or sororities at a University which has never had either. 


House casts vote to override veto 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The Democratic-controlled House voted 350-73 Tuesday to over­ride President Reagan's veto of an $88 billion highway and mass transit bill, sending the measure to the Senate for the final round of a bruising politi­cal struggle. 
The margin was 68 votes more than the two-thirds needed to override the presi­dent's action on the bill, which couples more than 100 road projects made to order for in­dividual lawmakers with a provision permitting the states to raise the speed limit to 65 miles per hour on most 
Anti·VIolence Activist 
Center for Teaching Non·VIolence & NCTV full·llme atalf. Lodging & S&OOOiyr. ReHarch on aggreaalon, clearinghouse, publiShing & lobbying agalnat violence Including TV, film, war 10>"8, aporia, erollcL Next to U Illinois. Student kiana deferable. 217·384-1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820 
stretches of interstate high­way. 
The Senate debated the veto for more than an hour Tuesday but postponed a vote until Wed­nesday. 
The only suspense in the House was the margin of Reagan's defeat, where 248 Democrats and 102 Republicans -including GOP leader Bob Michel of Illinois and Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi -cast their votes to override the veto. Democratic Rep. Norman Sisisky of Virginia and 72 Republicans voted to sustain Reagan. 
Michel noted the presence of funds in the bill to complete a highway widening project in his district, and said he was making a "very difficult, agonizing decision for the first time in the Reagan presidency'' to oppose him on a major bill. 
Freshman GOP rep. Arthur 
Ravenel Jr. of South Carolina 
reflected the political appeal of 
the bill when he said, "You can 
bet your spring petunias this 
Congress will override the 
veto. President Reagan, he 
ain't going to be running in 
1988, but I am." 
House Speaker Jim Wright, 
D-Texas, said the outcome was 
a ''very gratifying victory in 
the House. Members stood up 
for their own conviction, stand­
ing up to blandishments and 
pressure" from the White 
House. 
Democrats argued that the measure was under budget, and said a successful veto would cost 800,000 jobs in the coming construction season. A provision permitting states to raise the speed limit to 65 mph on rural portions of the inter­states was also politically at­tractive to Western law­
_makers. 



Class of 1988 
Senior Portrait Sign-Ups Dining Halls 4:30-6:30 pm 
Monday, March 30 Thursday,April 2
.... .. ...... 
-.....-:::­


--------------------------------~ ------~ 

The Observer Wednesday, April!, 1987-page 6 

U.S. adviser killed in attack on army base 
Associated Press 
EL PARAISO, El Salvador­Guerrillas raided a major army base before dawn Tues­day, killing at least 43 soldiers and a U.S. military adviser, the first to die during battle in the 7 -year-old civil war. 
El Salvador's military com­mander said the American, identified as Staff Sgt. Gregory Fronius, 27, of Greensburg, Pa., was killed by mortar fire near a command post. 
The military said 35 soldiers were wounded by leftist rebels who assaulted the base behind a barrage of cannon, mortar and grenade fire. Base com­mander Col. Gilberta Rubio, who was slightly wounded, said the number of attackers had not been determined. 
Officials said seven guerril­las died in the attack on the 4th Infantry Brigade garrison at El Paraiso in Chalatenango prov­ince, a rebel stronghold, and some penetrated the camp. El Paraiso is nearly 40 miles north of San Salvador, capital of El Salvador 
"Because of the seriousness of the injuries, the number of dead (soldiers) may increase," said Gen. Adolfo Blandon, chief of the armed forces. He visited the base to assess the situation. 
Soldiers on the scene esti­mated government casualties at about 65 dead and more than 100 wounded. 
According to U.S. policy, American advisers do not par­ticipate in offensive military action or enter areas where combat is occurring or likely, but may visit ''carefully selec­ted and secure sites" such as garrisons. They are armed and may respond if fired upon. 

The United States has a self­imposed ceiling of 55 on the number of advisers serving in El Salvador at one time, but fewer sometimes are on duty. 
Tuesday's rebel attack was the largest since a June 1986 guerrilla assault on the army base at San Miguel, 86 miles east of San Salvador. The mil­itary said 50 soldiers were killed or wounded there, but the rebels claimed a total of 250. 
U.S. embassy spokesman Pen Agnew said Fronius was training Salvadoran troops at the El Paraiso garrison. 
At the Pentagon in Washing­ton, the Army said he had a wife and child an<;l was as­signed to the 3rd Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group, based in Panama. 
Pentagon spokesman Robert Sims said the sergeant was part of a two-man team as­signed to the area and his partner was not at the garrison when the rebels attacked. 
Blandon said the rebels began firing mortars, grenade launchers and a 90mm cannon at 2 a.m., aiming at the com­mand post, barracks and offi­cers' mess. He said 250 soldiers were at the base. 
The command post, a bar­racks and an officers' mess were destroyed and other buildings damaged. Reporters saw at least three destroyed military vehicles. 

An Indiana state trooper explains law and tion in the Grace Hall Pit last night. The aware­police procedure for drunk driving in the ness program was sponsored by BACCHUS. Hoosier State as part of a drinking demonstra-
But on the eve of Reagan's retary (William) Bennett and first formal speech touching on others," Fitzwater said. 
AIDS 
the AIDS issue, reporters ques­"The sur,geon general is the continuedfrom page 1 tioned his spokesman sharply primary health officer for the 
on the president's views on ad­government and he speaks for very serious health problem vice being given by others in the administration on these is­that should be addressed." the administration. sues," the spokesman added. 
The spokesman made his "There's lots of different 
remarks in the morning, kinds of advice that people Fitzwater repeatedly refused shortly after Reagan joined want to give on this issue and to say where Reagan stands on 
the administration has given AIDS education in schools, the Chirac to announce an agree­that advice through the sur­question of abstinence vs. thement to settle a legal dispute 
over patent rights to AIDS geongeneral (C. EverettKoop) use of condoms or other protec­screenin tests. and through (Education) Sec-tive measures. 

Wednesday, April 1, 1987 -page 7
The Observer 
Security Beat · 
Sunday 
9:27p.m.-A resident of Grace Hall was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center via ambulance. The student claims to have injured his back playing basketball at Stepan Center. 
Monday 
9:15 a.m. -An employee reported that the hood ornament was taken from her vehicle while it was parked in the Notre Dame Credit Union lot. The value was estimated at $30. 
2:15 p.m. -A Grace Hall resident re­ported that an attempt was made to remove his stereo and power booster from his car while it was parked in the D-2 lot. The extent of tbe damage to the articles is not known. 
2:55 p.m. -A Grace Hall resident re­ported that his backpack was taken from the bookrack at the South Dining Hall. The theft occurred during the lunch 
hour. The victim estimated the value of safe keeping. The value of the bike is the backpack at approximately $113. approximately $30. 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Anti-American sentiment among Japanese citizens will grow if the United States goes ahead with penalty duties on up to $300 million worth of Japanese electronic goods, a senior government of­ficial said Tuesday. 
"The atmosphere in Japan against the Americans would become -not so good. They would think the U.S. was emo­tional and illogical,'' said Noburo Hatakeyama, director general of the International Trade Administration Bureau. 
Hatakeyama repeated warn­ings from other Japanese offi­cials that Japan would consider retaliation if its negotiators cannot dissuade the United States from going ahead with the penalty duties. But he did not offer any details on what form the retaliation might take. 
"We might get tough. What is important is to ask them to withdraw the duties and ask them to understand the true sit­uation. And we can retaliate after that," if necessary, he told a group of foreign jour­nalists. 
Although Japan is striving to cut its huge trade surplus, it cannot make any concessions on semiconductor trade to fend off the planned U.S. penalty duties because it is doing noth­ing wrong, Hatakeyama said. 
"If we offer any concessions, then that suggests we acknowl­edge having violated the agree­ment," he said. "But in this case we've done nothing wrong, so there is nothing we can concede." 
The Reagan administration said last week it plans to im­pose prohibitive tariffs on a range of Japanese electronic goods in mid-April to force Japan into compliance with an accord on semiconductors. Japan agreed last year to open its home market to U.S.-made chips and to avoid selling its chips in foreign markets at un­fairly low prices. 
Trade concerns caused in part by the semiconductor dis-

19-member committee to plan the inauguration of Malloy 
S~ial to The Observer Notre Dame has been governed by a predominantly lay Board 
The inauguration of Notre of Trustees, who now elect the Dame's 16th president, the first president. such formal cer~mony in the University's history, will be A 19-person committee to September 23. In the past, the plan the inauguration of Father the presidency was a religious Edward Malloy as president of assignment of a member of the the University has been named Congregation of Holy Cross, by Provost Timothy O'Meara, the community that founded who will chair the group. Notre Dame in 1842. Since 1967, Members are Dr. Thomas P. 
Sunshine Promotions Presents
~··················· 




HUEY LEWIS 
and The News Sunday April 5 
7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $16.50 
Tickets available at the ACC Gate 10 Box Office or charge by phone (219) 239-7356 
pute caused the dollar to keep sinking Tuesday in Tokyo to an­other low. The dollar closed at 
145.65 yen, down from Mon­day's close of 146.20 yen, which had been its lowest point since modern exchange rates were set in the late 1940s. 
The steep fall of the dollar, although it should help shrink trade imbalances, has raised fears of recession in J a _pan and 
inflation and higher interest rates in the United States. 
Hatakeyama said the duties on electronic products, sched­uled to take effect in two weeks, would have minimal financial impact, but "the psychological impact would be very big .... First of all, we are not accus­tomed to this type of retaliation or game."
Kyodo News Service quoted political sources as saying Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is considering a package that would meet a range of American demands for greater access to Japanese markets. 

Tuesday 

!! :10 a.m. -A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that an attempt was made to remove his stereo system from his car while it was parked in the St. Joseph parking lot. The system was vandalized and the extent of damage is unknown. 
2:30 p.m. -Security found a girl's tO­speed bicycle on the bookstore court. It was brought to the Security office for 
Japan takes steps to boost imports 
Bergin, dean of continuing edu­professor of chemistry; James McLean, assistant dean of the 
cation; Laurie Bink, student Gibbons, director of special Law School; James Murphy, 
body vice president; Father events and protocol; Father 
Thomas Blantz, chairman and Daniel Jenky, rector of s.acred associate vice president of uni­
associate professor of history; Heart Church ~nd superiOr of veristy relations; Dr. Wendy 
Dean Francis Castellino of the Holy Cross pnests at Notre Schlereth archivist· Dr. Albin 
College of Science, Richard Dame; Sis~er John M~iam Szewczyk: chairma~ and pro­
Conklin, director of public re­Jones, associat~ provo~t; Sister fessor of aerospace and 
lations and information; ~ean Lenz, assistant yice pres-mechnical engineering; Dr. td~nt for student affairs; Dean Lee Tavis, Smith professor of
Patrick Cooke, student body 
Mtchael Loux of the College of business administration andpresident; Dr. Xavier Creary, Arts and Letters; William Dr. Daniel Winicur, regi~trar. 
Student Center at 9 p.m. Tues­day.
"I don't relish the position you find yourselves in and I think it makes life in a residence hall very difficult," Nelson said. "But I also don't have any magic wand way around that," he said. "Good luck and thank you," Nelson said. 
In other business, the HPC unanimously approved a pro­posal presented by student Senator Brian Holst which would revise the selection of members of the budget com­mittee. Holst said the budget committee is a 10-person com­mittee which oversees the fun­ding spent by the Student Ac­tivities Board, the student government and other campus organizations. 
Student Body Vice President­elect Laurie Bink announced a "Student Government Open House" will be held tonight on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Bink said inter­ested students can pick up ap­plications at the open house for positions within the student government. 





"ie~g_O_i_D__t
______________w_edn-esda-y,Ap-ril1_,1987--pa-ges 
An opportunity exists for assisting in finances 
Have you ever wondered where your $55 student activity fee has gone? Just what are you getting for it? Would you like to have a role in this budgeting process to determine where this fee is spent? The Student Body Treasurer is responsible for budgeting the $385,000 collected from the student activity fee 
Chris Grandpre 'Becca Cussen 
guest column 

to the many groups on campus that rely on this fee for their funding. These in­clude: Student Government, Student Activities Board, the Class Govern­ments, the Judicial Council, the Off-Campus Council, improvements for WVFI, and almost 120 other clubs and organizations on campus. Once the budgeting process has been completed in April of each year, it is then the re­sponsibility of the Student Body Trea­surer to keep an accurate record of all r finances and to disburse all funds of the
i' 
groups mentioned above. ~ If you are interested in sharing some 
( ( 
This is an invitation to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to be a part of the Great Hunger Clean-Up 1987. 
Sophia Twarog 
guest column 
On April 11, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., groups of students will be going out into the South Bend community to do a va­riety of fix-uplclean-up projects. They will be doing things such as painting, planting trees and flowers, doing minor repairs, cleaning parks, etc. The work sites were located with the help of the mayor's office, the Notre Dame Com­munity Relations Office, and a number of community organizations including the North East Neighborhood Associa­of these responsibility, then Student Government needs your help. Every year, during April, interviews are held to select someone to serve as the As­sistant Student Body Treasurer. Appli­cants must be sophomores in the Col­lege of Business Administration. The person chosen will have the opportunity to serve for two years and with two different Student Government Ad­ministrations. During your Junior year, you will serve as the Assistant Trea­surer in a learning capacity to become familiar with the financial operations of Student Government in preparation to assume the responsibilities of the Student Body Treasurer on April 1, 1988. 
The Student Body Treasurer has the opportunity to serve as a voting mem­ber of the two main decision making bodies on campus, the Student Senate and the SAB Steering Committee. The Treasurer serves as the Chairperson of the Student Senate Budget and Finance Committee. This is perhaps the Trea­surer's most important responsibility, the coordinating of budget requests~ participating in the allocation process and preparing the final budget. Throughout the year, the Treasurer shall then oversee that the fiscal policies are followed and that all clubs and organizations adhere to their spending guidelines. As a member of the SAB Steering Committee, which sets SAB policy and approves SAB up­coming events, you would have a behind-the-scenes look at events as well as the chance to have input on proposed future events. 

One of the best features of both the positions of the Assistant Student Body Treasurer and the Student Body Trea­surer, is the freedom to be creative with the position. You have a set of respon­sibilities and are accountable to the Stu­dent Senate and the student body, but you can expand your duties. As the year progresses and as your understanding increases, you will be able to imple­ment more efficient ways to ac­complish the same results. This year a computer system has been added to aid in preparing more accurate and timely financial reports. 
Involved with this position is a gradually increasing time committ­ment as the year goes on. Traditionally, as you begin to better understand the financial operations and as you begin to assume more responsibility, the more time you want to spend working with people involved in Student Gov­ernment and SAB. An enthusiastic team comprised of the Bookkeeper, SAB Controller, Student Body Trea­surer and Student Body Assistant Trea­surer work together to produce the most useful and accurate financial in­formation. 
We encourage you to get involved. Experience is not necessary because everyone is learning together. You will meet a lot of people, many of which will become good friends. If your interest has been sparked, stop up to the Second Floor of LaFortune and pick up an ap­plication. If you have any questions: come to the Student Government open house on Wednesday, April1, from 7: 00­
9:00 p.m. We hope you'll check it out. 
Chris Grandpre is the Student Body Treasurer for 1987-1988 & 'Becca Gus­sen was the Student Body Treasurerfor 1986-1987. 
I 

Students asked to join Great Hunger Clean-Up 
tion, Dismas House and La Casa de Amistad. 
Prior to the Clean-Up, students will collect pledges from friends, family, faculty members, etc. (It's the same concept as a walk-a thon). The individ­ual fundraising goal is $30 per person. Every student who reaches this goal will receive a classy Notre Dame ball­point pen, compliments of the Alumni Association. 
Additionally, there are prizes for stu­dents who collect the most money, in­curling free dinners, gift certificates, T-shirts, and an "Escape Weekend" at the Marriott Hotel. The Grand Prize is a round-trip ticket to anywhere in the continental United States (courtesy of Executive Travel, Inc.). Half of the money raised will be used toward meeting hunger needs here in South Bend. The other half goes to Third World countries, where it will be put into agricultural development projects where it will have a lasting impact. 

South Bend is not the only city in which a Hunger Clean-Up will be taking place. On April 11, 61 cities across the nation will be participating in this event. "USA for Africa"-has been in­strumental in organizing this event at the national level. At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the Overseas Develop­ment Network, the World Hunger Coal­ition, and the Saint Mary's Social Ac­tion club, as well as a number of other dedicated individuals have gotten the ball rolling. 
Sign-ups are Tuesday and Wednes­day in the dining halls, in the dorms, and in the Center for Social Concerns Monday through Thursday evening. The Community Service Commis­sioners are the Hunger Clean-Up rep­resentatives in the dorms. They will have sign up sheets and pledge sheets posted outside their doors. There will be a free pizza andk>r ice cream party for the dorm with the highest partici­pation rate and possibly another one for the dorm that raises the most money (per capita). 
Please note that the Hunger Clean-Up does not conflict with the Fisher Hall Regatta taking place later that after­noon. Also, University Food Services has graciously agreed to extend the hours of the cook-out lunch to 2 p.m. so that Hunger Clean-Up participants can be assured of getting some food. 
Join our effort and sign up soon! Hope to see you all out there ! 
Sophia Twarog is the Coordinator ofthe Great Hunger Clean-Up 1987. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Administration shows poor timing again 
Dear Editor: 
A few days ago I received a phone call from an organizer of the Bookstore Basketball tournament. After a brief introduction the voice started in with an unsolicited apology. As he continued I soon realized that our team name, "Condoms From Hell," was being cen­sored for the remainder of the tourna­ment and that we would now be know as team 369. When I inquired as to why, he slowly admitted that it was the work of an "external force." 
In the March 30 edition of The Obser­ver, this "force" was identified as a joint student-administration panel es­tablished as a result of concerns originating in the administration over the appropriateness of the names. Yes, the old Notre Dame "External Force" (which says it all for anyone in Howard Hall this year, for any member of Scholastic or for that matter, for any student who has studied at Notre Dame for more than a semester) acted again. 
I do not want to belabor these points, though. Instead, it seems a deeper, more unsettling habit seems to be de­veloping. It seems the administration is developing a chronic case of "poor timing." For example, look how well the Howard conversion was handled: notifying the students during their finals week. The same situation has oc­curred with the tournament name cen­sorship. 

The March 30 issue of The Observer stressed several examples in which the team names were questioned by the ad­ministration in past years. I think it would have been possible, with a little foresight of course, to predict that this year's team names would be of similar themes. Instead of merely telling tourn­ament organizers to announce that in­appropriate names would be censored, the administration acted after the teams had submitted names and again placed themselves in direct conflict 
with the students.  
There  is  an  old,  overused  cliche  
which  might  be  applicable  here:  
''Think Before You Act.''  

Joe Candela David Dilenschneider John Flickinger John Piecyk Peter Scanlon 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

VieWP-Oint Wednesday, Aprilt, 1987-page 9 

Entire university should get involved in justice 
As Father Hesburgh prepares to step down from his position as President of Nore Dame in May, much attention will focus on his active involvement in various justice issues. Certainly these accolades are deserved for his efforts with the Civil Rights commission, with Nuclear Disarmament, and most recently, for the establishment of the institute for International Peace Studies. However, will his leaving sig­nal the end of Notre Dame's role in peace and justice areas? Has the Uni­versity relied too much in the past on the efforts of one individual to carry out its mission to bring about peace with justice in the world? 
Margarita Rose 
guest column 

Fortunately, a small portion of the Notre Dame community -students, fac­ulty and staff -devote their efforts to this pursuit, although these efforts are often unrecognized. Now the time has come for a larger portion of the com­munity to become actively involved. A university known for its commitment to peace and justice because of its pres­ident must demonstrate that this com­mitment is pervasive throughout its membership. Participation in peace and justice efforts begins with an awareness and knowledge of injustice. Several upcoming events will offer us the opportunity to gain this knowledge. 
In light of the March 21 -April 6 na­tional Weeks of Anti-Apartheid Action, the African Studies Program is spon­soring a film series (also supported by the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Net­work) which focuses on the injustice of the system of apartheid in South Africa. The series is named in honor of the late Steve Biko, a leader of the Black Con­sciousness Movement in South Africa who died in detention, and Professors Joan and Jimmy Stewart, South Africans who taught at Notre Dame several years ago and later died in a car accident which was most likely an act of sabotage by the South African Security Forces. 
The remaining films will be shown Monday, March 30, through Wednes­day, April1, all at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. On Thursday eve­ning, April 2, a very special event will take place in the form of a public lec­ture by Father Malusi Mpumlwana. Malusi is a South African priest who, as a member of the Black Conscious­ness Movement, was arrested and severly tortured. His lecture, entitled "South Africa: The Liberation Struggle," will also begin at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Conerns. 
Sadly, Notre Dame's record for pursuing justice is tarnished by the South African issue. While Father Hes­burgh has been involved in behind-the­scenes dealings to bring a handful of South African students to Notre Dame and to sign proclamations condemning apartheid, the University itself has failed to make a committed public stance in support of those who suffer in that country. High-level communica­tions by big-name university presidents is an inadequate response to our call to be peacemakers. We all should be in­volved, as Catholis or Christians or simply people committed to a just and peaceful world. 
Another chance to become involved 
will be offered by Peace with Justice 
Week which will take place April 6-11. 
The week begins with a video, "God and Money," which explores some of the issues raised by the U.S. Bishops' Letter on the U.S. Economy; it will be followed by a discussion led by Profes­sor Drew Christiansen of the Theology Department. Starting at 7 p.m., the video will take place in the Grace Hall Pit. 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit, president of Pax Christi (USA), will discuss his role as peacemaker in the context of the Len­ten theme, "God does not see as we see -for we look at appearances, but the Lord looks into the heart." The Bishop's address will take place Wednesday, April 8, at 7 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
A theater presentation, ''Peasant of El Salvador," will be performed Thursday evening at 9 p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. This award-winning play focuses on the struggles experienced by a Salvadora peasant family within the context of social and political change gripping their country. 
On Saturday, April 11, the "Great Hunger Clean-Up'" will engage stu­dents in community imporvement proj­ects. Sponsors of the clean-up will donate money to be used for various hunger relief efforts. 
All of the events of Peace with Justice week are intended to make the Notre Dame community aware of the call made by Pope John XXII in his encycli­cal "Pacem in Terris." In this letter, Pope John called on the members of the Church to seek a more peaceful world by creating a more just one. We begin to do so by understanding the issues of peace and justice in the world around us, an understanding brought about through dialogue. 
One event during Peace with Justice Week will attempt such a dialogue in considering the specific role of the U ni­versity in instilling a sense of justice in its students. President-elect Father Malloy will lecture on the topic "Educa­tion for Justice: Is it Possible?" on Tuesday, April 7, at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Following the lec­ture, a panel of graduate and under­graduate students will offer their views on the subject. 
It is because of Notre Dame's com­mitment to its Catholic identity that it has the obligation to heed to papal call to pursue peace with justice. Does the burden of carrying out this obligation fall only upon the shoulders of organi­zations like the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Peace Institute and Univer­sity Ministry? Should not all aspects of the University embrace its commit­ment? While students have many op­portunities to become involved in peace and JUStice related organizations and activities outside the classroom, how many encounter these matters as part of their curriculum? Where does edu­cation's i'Ole in bringing about justice in the world begin? Where does it end? 
Margarita Rose is a graduate student in Economics and the Chairperson of the Anti-Apartheid Network. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Financial aid is not based upon one's sex 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer's assistant news editor Chris Julka has committed two serious errors as a professional editor in his March 25 editorial in which he portrays himself as some sort of victim of 
"reverse discrimination"  as  a  white  
male.  
For one,  he makes his  accusation  

based on information that cannot, by law, be verified by anyone reading his article. He claims by that using identi­cal information on family income, his sister qualified for the Federal Pell Grant while he did not, and that his parents were expected to make twice the financial contribution for him as for her. 
If this were truly the outcome only one explanation is possible. They did not have identical financial information on both applications. Either he had more personal savings at his disposal or he made an error on the application. This, however, is confidential informa­tion. Item number nine on the FAF, identifying male or female, is optional. There is no federal law requiring the Department of Education to factor sex into the needs formula. 
I believe that the seriousness of the 
misinformation being fostered by this 
editorial requires that the Notre Dame 
Office of Student Financial Aid publish 
a statement clarifying the federal 
policy. 
Secondly, he sets up a straw person to knock down in his statement that feminists such as Ellen Goodman are arguing, de facto, that white females "have it as bad as black males." No feminist will deny or underplay the dis­crimination against black males. A recent study by the Center for the Study of Social Policy estimates that 45 per­cent of all black males in the country do not have jobs, including not only those officially classified by the Census Bureau but also those who are counted as "discouraged" and no longer looking for work. To attribute this degree of unemployment to attitude or lack of ability on the part of black males is considered racist by most standards. 
If black males suffer as victims of widespread discrimination, black females suffer doubly -as blacks and as women. Over 50 percent of all black families with children under 18 are headed by women and 74.2 percent of all black children, under the age of six living in female-headed families, live below the poverty line. No one espous­ing feminist values reserves the right of equality and a decent standard of living for white women and children alone, as Julka implies they do. 
If he believes that women are not dis­criminated against in this society he must believe that they are getting paid what they are worth. Women earn less than men at every level. Whether they work in professional fields dominated by men (such as accounting, in which female workers comprise less than 40 percent of all workers and earn only 
71.2 percent of what men earn), in retail (women make up over 60 percent of the work force and yet earn only 67.4 of what men earn) or in occupations dominated by women (such as clerical jobs, in which women make up 78.4 per­cent of the work force an yet earn only 67 percent of what men earn), women consistently earn less than men. 
Even when we compare the 1981 fig­ures for occupations in which men and women earned the highest median weekly earnings, we see major dis­crepancies. Men working in the twenty occupations with the highest income earn significantly higher wages than women working in professions that pay them the higher income. Furthermore, the occupations that rank high for female earnings are not the so-called women's professions. The occupations in which women earn the most money 
are those that are male-dominated ­
operations and systems research and 
analysis, computer systems analysis, 
law, medicine, and dentistry. 
The causes of low incomes and 
poverty among women are fundamen­
tally different among men, black or 
white. The lives of the vast majority of 
women reflect a very different reality. 
There are societal expectations on all 
women that they fulfill the roles of 
caring for children, men, 
grandchildren and for elderly parents. 
It's these expectations which result in 
the lumping of women into care-giving 
jobs in the marketplace, for example. 
Even if they were initially valued more highly from a pay perspective, they would and are eventually lower paid as the sheer numbers of women now entering the work force drive wages lower and lower. It is the black women in their role as child rearers who are bearing the burden of the black male unemployment. 
All women, black or white, affluent or poor, are distinctly vulnerable to macroeconomic swings because of the roles assigned to them. To ask that so­ciety at least recognize this is a long way from laying blame for all the evils of the world on men. 
Shelley Baxter Off-Campus 

General Board 

The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager .......................... ~ ..... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor .................................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Michael Whitton 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ........................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ........................ Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...................................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ........................................ Chris Murphy Projects Manager ............................... Mark McLaughlin 
of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................... Tracy Schlndele
of the administration of either institution. The nows is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .................................... Michael Naughton Graphic Arts Manager ............................. Laura Stanton
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ............................... Marilyn Benchik Development Manager .......................Michael Shannon
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .................................................. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 





Accent 

&Jitor's note: The following'l'I is not an April fool's joke. l (Maybe it should be.) 
1 
MARK MCLAUGHLIN 

~ 
I features writer 
The cult of Circus Lunch, 
as any of you who read the classifieds will know, has finally gotten its wish. Circus Lunch made its second ap­pearance in North an·1 South Dining Halls on Monday. 
Meet Paul and Joe, two ordinary Notre Dame guys who tried to make a differ­ence. "We'd been ta1king about this thing since the beginning of last year," said Paul. "I was overseas last year, but Joe told me about lt.II 
"It was a real highlight of the semester for me," said Joe. "I really appreciated the Circus Lunch. I told Paul about it and he came to ap­predate It too.II 
These two intrepid crusaders started their cam­
' ' There was kind of a Circus Lunch subway alumni. People caught the fever.'' 
palgn with a note under, the Director of Food Services, Bill Hickey's door. You can im­agine the excitement of the moment as Bill Hickey 
picked up the paper and 
read the plea for help. 
"Why not?" said Hickey later about the note. "If the students want it done, I'll do it. They just have to let me know what they want.II 
But these two weren't 

done yet. "We needed _some­thing to campaign for." said Paul, "and Circus Lunch seemed like a good thing to do." 
As their Personals cam­paign picked up steam, and a February late night poster hanging caper took the campus by storm, support for the Circus Lunch grew and grew. Soon other signs appeared, signs not made by Paul or Joe. Personals started multiplying. "There was kind of a Circus Lunch subway alumni," said Paul. "People caught the fever." 

Soon people started as­king dining hall workers where the Circus Lunch had gone. According to Paul, no one he knows had actually demanded Circus Lunch. Little did Paul and Joe know that the Circus Lunch was coming to town again. "We had some real good staff reports on Circus Lunch," said Hickey. "Students tried one of everything." 
"Take Chinese New Year. Students liked the eggrolls, but they didn't like the chop suey or the chow mein. We learned from that." And so Circus Lunch, after a year's absence, was scheduled for March 30. 
Paul and Joe first got word from an Inside source on the Thursday night before the big event. They waited for official word, then celebrated with their room­mates and friends. A 'Circus Lunch countdown was started the night before, and phone calls were made to WVFI to publicize the big news. 
"It was a total surprise. We weren't really expecting It," said Joe. Since Paul and Joe had never met Hickey, there w.as no way to know. 
T~~~blg:~P~a~y behind the retu~~f 
Joe dressed up for the occa-·"\.. ',"'­sion. According to Joe, "The ·,, happy atmosphere, the clowns running around, the music playing is just great. 
And it's got a catchy title to it. Circus Lunch. I mean, it 
just sounds goodf" 
A dream was fulfllled. "I guess we had an ef­fect," said Joe. "Maybe in 

'' Maybe we could have a really big Circus Lunch, kind 
of like JPW.' ' 

the future we'll work towards establishing a permanent Circus Lunch. Maybe, we'd even have a Circus Lunch a week. 
"And 1 0 years down the road, who knows? Maybe we could have a really big Circus Lunch, kind of like JPW. All the alumni could come back and have Circus Lunch." 
How 'bout it, Mr. Hickey? "Well, not this year. We have too many picnics and things coming up, and the big Fis­her Regatta thing out by Holy Cross," he replied. 
Paul and Joe, at least for now, have no plans for other campaigns. "Circus Lunch was the one that was impor­tant," said Joe. "Everyone got a good meal out of it, and that's what counts." But both men have learned from their hard work. "Students can do things if enough people make enough of an effort, not just try one time and then give up." 
"On serious and important issues, if students persist, things could be done," he added. 


Summer servi 
R
GINA CAMARENA shelters for the homeless and features writer shelters for abused wives. "The possibilities are endless emember all those volun­and every project is different." teer projects you turned said project coordinator Sue down because you "didn't have Cunningham. She also said the time," or because you that many students have much needed to work in order to to offer to the program but save money for college? Well, don't know that it exists. "The this summer could more biggest problem," said Cunnin­than compensate for any un­gham, "is getting students ventured projects. The Summer aware of what it is all about." Service Programs offered Cunningham is currently hel­through the Center for Social ping to select the 65 or 68 par­Concerns gives students the ticipants from the I 23 applica­opportunity to volunteer eight tions received. Those chosen weeks of their summer and for the projects will receive earn $1, 200 towards next their assignments before year's tuition. spring break. and will attend a 
The projects, sponsored by workshop in the spring to learn Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and more about their duties as vol­the Jim Andrews Memorial unteers. Each student will Fund, are designed for stu­spend eight weeks in one par­dents who want to work on a ticular city, and depending on long-term volunteer service. the location, will either live at Students can choose to work home, in a parish, in a con­from approximately 60 cities vent, or in a home of alumni. throughout the U.S. in such The final part of the project is areas as the catholic social completed in the fall when stu­services, children's camps, dents return to campus. A fall 



Wednesday, Aprill, 1987-page 11 

,

on 
e 
Circus Lunch 
) 

ce ... a priceless gift 
Kris Murphy 
Security Beet 


The following incidents were in her face and told her not to not reported to Notre Dame leave her money sitting Security this week: around where somebody could steal it. One officer was Sunday, March 22 reported as saying "How I :.30 p.m.-A farley Hall res­ridiculous!" The student 
ident reported receiving an responded by kicking the of­obscene phone call. When fleer In the stomach. asked about the nature of the Tuesday, March 24 call, she said, "It was okay, 10:18 a.m.-A male subject but he needs to practice his Informed Security of the theft heavy breathing. If you catch of a large quantity of drugs him, give me his name and from his dorm room. Street number, OK?" value has been estimated at 
.3:42 p.m.-A male subject 2 million dollars. A reward is was apprehended as he being offered for their return. atempted to leave the Notre Wednesday, March 25 Dame Bookstore without 12:1.3 p.m.-A Breen-Phillips being overcharged for some resident reprted the loss of shampoo and and a her innocence and youthful notebook. When asked about idealism. The innocenct was the Incident, a Bookstore em­apprehended attempting to ployee said "I didn't realize buya case ofBudweiseratCity that the prices for the goods Wide Liquors In Mishawaka. in question were reasonable. The youthful idealism is still We have corrected the prob­at large and is considered lem and will continue to armed and hopelessly naive. gouge students for all the 8:.32 p.m.-A male subject money they have." was apprehended by library 
10:56 p.m.-A member of monitors as he attempted to the faculty was apprehended smuggle a twinkle and half of by security offlers as he ran a Diet Pepsi up to the fifth nude through the parking lots floor. The suspect protested near the football stadium. The "Look. I've been studying a subject resisted officers con­long time and I'm really tending that he was "onlyjog­hungry. I promise I won't ging." He was subdued and spill." Library Security was not taken home to his wife who impressed and they worked Informed officers that her him over wlth clubs before husband had been under a lot making him promise never to of stress lately. take food upstairs again. 
Monday, March 2.3 Thursday, March 26 
11:22 a.m.-A Lyons Hall 4:58p.m.-A Lyons resident resident reported an ob­reported receiving an obscene noxious roommate. "She's phone call. Upon receiving an­been obnoxious for a long other such call at 5: 15 Secur­time but this Is the first time ity went Into action, eventually I've told anybody" she said to tracing the call to their own security officers. The room­offices. "Oh well" explained mate was apprehended out­one officer "boys will be side Lyons and taken In for boys." questioning. Friday, March 27 
5:19p.m.-Security received 9:56 p.m.-A student was a report of someone assault­apprehended studying on the Ing a washing machine In the tenth floor. When asked why Badin laundry. Security ar­he was studying on a Friday rived to find a group of five night he gave some lame ex­male subjects attacking a was­cuse and was promptly force­her with hammers, wrenches, fed a six-pack. and a tire Iron. The subjects .3:.39 a.m.-A male subject explained that they'd been was apprehended in the Ob­ripped offfor the last time and server offices. He contended that they had decided to give that he was "trying to write my University Vending something column" but upon inspection to think about. the "column" turned out to 
6:48p.m.-A female student contain top-secret Notre reprorted the theft of her Dame Security forces Infor­bookbag from South Dining mation. The subject was Hall. Taken were several gagged and taken to the Ad­books and twenty-three dol­ministration building where lars. Security officers laughed he is being held without ball. 

Campus Band Publicity 
In lightofthe difficulties that campus bands have encountered in· their attempt to adver­tise themselves, and in response to Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy's sugges­tion, The Accent department will introduce a new column next week as a service to the Notre Dame community. "The Downbeat" will present a listing of campus bands and where they will be playing each week. If you are a member of a campus band and wish to appear for free in The Observer, call Kendra Morrill at 283-3693 or bring the band's name and schedule to The Observer office. 
workshop will bring the volun­teers together to reflect on ser­vice and to share their experi­ences. Also, a 1-.3 credit theology course will fulflll their requirements. 
In 1980, the program began with only five projects and this year there will be approxi­mately 60. The goal Is to have each of the I 79 alumni clubs participate in the program. Cunningham said the future for the program is "continued growth." 
One of last year's partici­pants, Johanna Kelly, con­tinues to visit the shelter where she spent eight weeks teach­ing. learning, and "making friends." Kelly worked in Mic­higan City at a shelter workshop for the mentally and physically handicapped. Be­sides "teaching the adults basic living skills," she would also lead songs by playing her guitar. "It's a great experience," said Kelly, "and you end up receiving more from them than they do from you." In terms of rehibllitative medicine the ex­perience was also a "career direction" for Kelly who is studying pre-med. 
for Kelly, the fall workshop gave volunteers the chance to sum-up their projects. "(The seminar discussion) tied ser­vice to theology," sald Kelly, and "gave us the chance to discuss issues that arose in our projects--reflection is helpful." 
Mark Zeese, another volun­teer at the shelter workshop, described his work as "the best summer experience I've ever had." Zeese was a supervisor at the shelter and tutored the disabled in special learning groups. Working with the dis­abled was "a challenge" for Zeese who previously feared this type of tutoring. "I always wanted to help," said Zeese, "but I have never worked with the disabled." In addition to teaching the adults simple tasks such as sorting objects, Zeese was also "someone who could be their friend." The en­tire experience "Is a meaningful thing to do," said Zeese. 
Scott Lechner volunteered his summer in another part of the country, Wilmington, DE, not far from his Newark home. Lechner lived in the House of Joseph helping homeless men find employment. "I wanted to do something for others," said Lechner, "and (working at the home) gave me a chance to see the other side of society." Lechner helped the men by giving them his support talking with them, and sharing each other's viewpoints. 
Since the project Lechner is more understanding towards the unemployed and friendships. "Many of them don't have friends," said Lech­ner. "We don't know how lucky we are." The Summer Service Programs have many beneath­the-surface rewards. A price cannot be placed upon the friendships and memories of one such experience. 
Wednesday, Aprill, 1987-page 12





Business 

Credit card holders will face new world of plastic money 
By STEVE CLAEYS profit of $5 billion last year. less than the 18 to 20 percent Business Editor Banks are offering a diverse rates banks usually charge on range of incentives to attract their cards. 
Unknown to most credit card credit card users. Fleet Na­The banks are hardly wel­holders, the deregulation of the tional Bank of Providence, coming the new competition banking industry may greatly Rhode Island, home of Brown from American Express, and alter how consumers use their and other colleges, offers some banks have even consid­plastic money. Debate is alumni of these local schools a ered not selling American Ex­growing concerning credit credit card with the insignia of press traveler's checks. card interest rates. their alma mater imprinted on Despite these benefits, there 
Although cardholders may it. Additionally, 1 percent of the is growing consumer discon­be treated to lower interest amount charged to one of these tent over the interest rates rates and special incentives, special cards is donated to the charged on unpaid credit card they may also have to face respective alumni fund by balances. Although the prime shorter grace periods, higher Fleet National. rate decreased from 13 percent prices and less credit. Citibank Visa gives custom­to 7 percent during the past 
The banking industry was a ers what Citibank calls CitiDol­seven years, the average credit calm, orderly business before lars each time they use their card rate has climbed from 11 deregulation. There was little cards. These CitiDollars can percent to 18 percent. This has competition for customers be­then be used to purchase mer­caused many consumer organ­cause interest rates were reg­chandise out of a special izations to cry "foul," and has ulated by the government. catalogue provided by precipitated many reactions by 
Deregulation brought these Citibank. the government. days to an end. Banks must Discount insurance rates, New Jersey governor now battle for customers by of­travel services, easy credit and Thomas Kean has warned that fering cheaper loans, higher in­special "gold cards" are also he will call for legislation to for­terest rates and special ser­used to lure potential plastic cibly reduce rates unless the vices. Naturally, this money customers. banks lower their rates volun­competition has included the The credit card companies tarily. American National domain of bank-issued credit that do not issue their cards Bank of Illinois refused to cards (for example, Visa and through banks (American Ex­reduce their rates to approxi­MasterCard). press and Diners Club) are mately 14 percent, and, as a 
Americans have accum­likewise attempting to attract result, Illinois State Treasurer ulated an outstanding revolv­new customers. American Ex­Jerry Cosentino ended the state ing credit of more than $128 bil­press revealed a new card accounts at American Nation­lion, and banks are scrambling called Optima which charges al. This will deprive the bank to get a piece of this lucrative consumers an interest rate of of $485 million of deposits per business which had a pre-tax only 13.5 percent. This is much year. 
Successful managers lead employees with plenty of style 
Here are a few very successful managers, recently highlighted by "Success" magazine, for whom you might be lucky to work. 
The employees of Seagate, a computer parts man­ufacturer, seem like a very happy bunch. Their company's sales have doubled to $712 million in 1986, with profits of $90 million. 
The man behind this success is Tom Mitchell, 
Seagate's president. His personality is "manage­
ment by intimidation." An ex-Marine, he has a 
hand-grenade on his desk next to an office plaque 
which reads, "God I love war." He shouts out 
Marine slogans to his employees such as ''Take no 
prisoners." 

The slogans are only the beginning. To encourage 
an employee to sell more, Mitchell once jumped on 
the employee's desk and kicked the phone onto the 
floor. 

He also demands long hours. Every executive and 
engineer worked seven days a week for a month 
and were ordered to eat Thanksgiving dinner in the 
company cafeteria. It was all because Mitchell sold 
30,000 new disk drives before his company produced 
them. 

Obviously, the President's style pays off. Is it worth it to the employees? Well, each received two weeks bonus last quarter and their salaries led the industry. 
Brian Murray 
Business Manager 

Walmart is another successful company with an­other strong leader: Sam Walton. Walton, the ric­hest man in America, has built Walmart into the seventh largest retailer. 
Like Mitchell, Walton is a workaholic. He expects his managers to put in 50 hour weeks. But his ap­proach is a little bit different. Walton believes in his people, works with his people, and takes care of them with profit-sharing plans and bonuses. 
Walton's personal style is very unassuming. He drives a 1976 pickup and dresses in much the same way he did before he made more than $4 billion. 
When it comes to dealing with employees, whom he calls associates, he is very patient. Walton reg­ularly visits his stores and asks the lowest level employee for advice. His style is called "manage­ment by being nice." and it works. Walmart's sales 
are approactiing $7 billion, from only $44 million in 1971. 
Jim Benham runs Benham Capital Management Group, an investment firm. Last year, the 15-year­old firm managed more than $3 billion and had a mutual fund ranked in the top ten. 
During the day he works behind a dark oak desk surrounded by charts and graphs in a typical banker's office. But at night, the 51-year-old grabs his trumpet and moonlights as a jazz musician. He has played for club crowds of 150 or more. 
Resembling Steve Martin in the movie ''All of Me," the money manager-jazz musician loves music and applies it to business. He sights the team­work needed to play in a band and likens soloing to giving a speech. When you get to solo, he says, "it's your turn to wail." 
It is refreshing to hear a stale and conservative boss relate to bebop ... shades and all. 
+




+ + SAB BOARD i 
++ Goodbye Old, Welcome New: : 
1986-1987
+ 

Frank Vidergar
+ 

+ 
Ann Foley 


+ 
Paul Bierbusse 

+ 
Jenny Fisher 

+ 
Laurie Shea 


+ 
John Gormley 


+ S~veGe~gi

+ Charles Lobdell 
+ 
J .A. Lacy
+ 
Janel Blount
+ 

Don Dickinson 
+ 

Eric Timperman
+ 

1987-1988 Janel B Iount Jeff Woode Eric Timperman Brian Reilly Nick Rossi Jere Recob 
Tom Sloan Maura Colleton Diane Magill Jim Hering Marikris Dalun 
A limit on interest charged on credit cards has been estab­lished in the states of Arkansas, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Texas, Washington and Wis­consin. Additionally, biparti­san support is growing in Congress for legislation to put a ceiling on credit card rates, and two bills have already been proposed. 
The credit card industry naturally is not going to take government regulation sitting down. A report in a Federal Reserve Bulletin has supplied the bankers their first round of ammunition. According to the report, consumers in states which regulate credit card in­terest rates tend to experience higher prices, stricter credit restrictions and shorter grace periods. 

None of these repercussions obviously are in the best inter­est of consumers. This is espe­cially true in the case of young and lower-income consumers who require easy credit. The issue which will be debated on Capitol Hill is whether these drawbacks are outweighed by the accompanying reduction in card interest rates. 
The great American institu­tion of plastic money is definitely undergoing a state of change. The result may be lower rates and special ser­vices, but they will be available to fewer people. 
Position + Board Manager + Controller t Business Auditor t Campus Entertainment + Cultural Arts + Ideas and Issues + 
+ 
Movies : Musical Entertainment + Publicity + Services t Special Events + 

The Observer is now ac­cepting applications for the position of: 
Business Writer 

Questions should be directed to Steve Claeys at 239-5313 or 283-1773. A brief resume should be submitted. 

The Observer Wednesday, April!, 1987-page 13 

Sports Briefs · · Prouds fans welcome Orangemen 
A Dancin' Irish organizational meeting will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women are invited. Infor­mation concerning clinics and tryouts for the 1987-88 season, which will be held April 12 through April 15, will be given. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have an organizational meeting Thursday, April2, at 7p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone interested in officiat­ing is encouraged to attend. For more information or to sign up before the meeting, contact Warren Berry at 283­1206. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball captains' meeting will be held Thursday at 6:45 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Skies were dark but spirits were bright when the Syracuse bas­ketball team returned home Tuesday following a one-point loss to Indiana in the champi­onship game of the NCAA bas­ketball tournament. 
Manley Field House, Syracuse's basketball home until the Carrier Dome opened in 1980, was awash with orange --orange shirts, caps, posters, balloons and stickers proclaim­ing "Still No. 1." 
Signs proclaimed "You're No. 1 In Our Hearts -Thanks For A Great Season" and "We're Proud of You." 
Some 2,500 people showed up to welcome Syracuse, a 74-73 loser to Indiana in Monday night's title game. Keith Smart's jumper with five seconds left was the difference. 
Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim received a two-minute ovation when he led the team into the building. 
"When you go through a night like last night, when the kids did everything we asked, you think about that basketball has to come down to winning and losing," Boeheim said. "But there were two great teams, and two great efforts, and you come down to it that you don't really have a loser in that type of game. 
"This reception means a lot to us. It takes an awful long time to recover from a game like this. This is a great, great first step and it helps get on track for Kansas City (site of the 1988 finals)." 
''This is the first time since we lost that I've been able to hold my head up and smile. Thank you," said co-captain Howard Triche, a senior and a Syracuse native. 

Knight 
continuedfrom page 20 
Basketball fans will have to wait until next year to find out if this is indeed a new Bob Knight. People don't want to be fooled by a "wolf in sheep's clothing." Many feel Knight's performance was good enough to go straight to the Oscars after the game. 
There are hordes of Bob Knight fans, while others pray for the day he leaves the coach­ing ranks. But all personality judgments aside, few people seem to argue with the fact that Knight is simply one of the finest coaches in the game. 
Tile Ob11rnrNotre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Olinrnr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day clasaifieds is 3 p.m. All clasaifleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
LOST: LEVIS JEANS JACKET MACINTOSH and printer for sale. Call DOGS OF ALUMNI This Thursday, He is the promised one: George Peppard. 
NOTICES My Levis Jeans jacket disappeared from Erin 272-2357 THE TIME IS NOW FOR REAL LEAD­dance your e11ening away to the beautiful 2nd floor Lewis during a party on Sat. ERSHIP. VOTE FOR WINKS AND music of PAT MAHER PERRY JIMINEZ CHIP night. In the last two years I've worn that NAPES. WE WANT YOUR IDEAS, AND THE BOTTOM LINE. BACCIOCCO JOE JANSEN VOTE
Typing 

jacket to 1 0 countries and washed it just YOUR HELP. VOTE WINKS AND Appearing for a limited engagement FRIDAY FOR FINANCE CLUB OFFI· Free Pickup and Delivery three times. The accumulated dirt on it NAPES. at DUKE's BISTRO. CERSIIIII
217-7406 has a great deal of sentimental value. A TICKETS laundry tag sewn on the inside back of HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY MONIQUEI THURSDAY NIGHT FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS-Do you the jacket reads P.E. Oeschger. A con­Mom, Ded, Prlnceu end Orange THURSDAY NIGHT want effective leadership, cheaper activ· 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
tact lens case and eyedrops were in one WANTED I County wlah you all the best. THURSDAY NIGHT ities, and wilder parties?? Then please
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
of the chest pockets. If found PLEASE 4 tix for Neil Diamond concert vote for the ticket MAHER.JIMINEZ· call Paul at 2287. No questions asked. on April29 BACCIOCCO.JANSEN on Friday!!
Wordproceaalng 

Desperate parents will pay! Call Tony HOT ICE is coming... SEE IT!! Party with 
217-8131 ii1463 were you at Campus View Friday? Did FOR SALE: ONE ROUND TRIP FLIGHT THEBOTTOMLINE ATTENTION EVERYONEIII Today Ia you have a few too many beers? D id 

WANTED! FROM O'HARE TO COL SPRINGS. Amy Humphrey'a Birthday! Give her Wordprocess1ng-Typing you accidentally acquire my 35mm 
1 GRADUATION TICKET CHEAP. CALL TOM X3830. Appearing at a call at X2903, or juat drop by et 112 
272-8827 Canon Snappy camera ? (The one with 
DESPERATE! DUKE's BISTRO Ill Lyona and wllh her 1 happy clay. Love my spring break pictures and my friend's 
Call Tony i1463 Need ride to MPLS. this weekend-will ya klddo, Rbirthday) Everyone makes mistakes, share expenses. Call Kevin-1038. 
TYPING AVAILABLE you're forgiven, but please return my THURSDAY NIGHT KEVIN FITZPATRICK camera -ar least my film -please! 283­
HI THERE. THURSDAY NIGHT YOU MAY BE RICH, BUT...
This weekend.

287-4082 4428 or Holy Cross desk SMC 
I am a young, aeductlve THURSDAY NIGHT YOU'LL NEVER HAVE ONE! Stonehenge. woman of the eighties. LOVE, BUSTED AT THE VENDOS The DRUIDS. 
Lost one gray daily planner wo it my life Anc:ll know that I wouldCeremonies.
UNIVERSITY RESUME is unplanned and chaotic lost it sometime 
The arrival of Spring. definitely Any woman he wants, ha gets Who is Proteselonal Resumes Friday. Please call Dan at 1721. 
Sacrifice. give up my Independence for he? Reeder, Mark Reeder When's the EVERY MAN'S FIELD do you ha11e a Student Rate1 Alumni's Wlnke end Napea party 007? At Drain, the Drain Galore, birhtday coming up? Happy 20th to ourThe coming of An Tostsl.
Neer the Mill Lost one BA-ll Texas lnstrmnts Calcula­
...what a ticket ... favorite APRIL FOOL! Love, Kar, Sue,
272-8338 tor guide book approx. one month ago. 
your fleming feminist Kar
Be thelw--.

If found call Dan at 1721. 
Dnlln ... THE Dnlln. L.ennert ... B. David Lennert. 

THE CELLAR RECORD STORE -Now TO AND FROM MARQUETTE THIS
BOB-YES,YOU-CALL MEl

hiring manager & employee positions for WEEKEND next fall. Applications available at store. WILL HELP WITH EXPENSES. CALL
~~...-_FO_R_R_EN_T___,ll.....__PE_RSO_N_AL_s___, 
PSYCHODELIC A BEAUX ARTS BALLGive greater depth to your life wtth a DEBBIE 284-5411COMING FRIDAY APRIL 10 PSYC­major or aeconc:l major In theology.

IN-HOME TYPING Term Papers 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 6 UQUOR, HODELIC
Prereglatratlon 11

Resumes located near campus CALL 6 bedroom 4-6 students ~ & epproachlng, 10 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
289-7570 utilities. Security system 234 6688 come dlecuu the poulbllltles wtth E. APRIL IS
THURSDAY, 2 KATY
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. THANKYOU ST. JUDE & BLSSED VIR­
Gorski, C.S.C., 340 O'Sheughneuy. 
KIRKPATRICK'S BIRTHDAY· CALL FOREIGN STUDENT: Get a job before SUM STOR:all belonings(incl 5201 TO WISH HER A HAPPY 19TH GIN 
1ST SOURCE BANK Needed: 4 FUN WILD MEN on April 11

you graduate and stay in US under new lur)saf&Secure Bill M.2327416 BIRTHDAY!
Buy or leaae a car. 236-2200. Flnenc­A little late, but Happy Birthday Tech Sar­
at 9:00pm to play choo-choo, try exoticlaw.Send $19.95 for this step-by-step 
lng available for ell US 1t11tn. geant G Chris Weppner, Shawn J
new drinks, and dance the night away.
guide. Young & Co, PO Box 241090, SHARE LARGE HOUSE WITH ND PAT RYAN: A MAN CALLED HORSE. 
GRAD THIS SUMMER. $112 MO. e Sound good? Give us a call at 1-SLY.
MemphiS TN 38124-1090 
LARGEST selection of CliM.1onarch TO MY ROOMIE, YOU DESERVE THEUTIL 289-8792, PAUL Notes in Michiana! Buy-Sell--teX1books BEST PERSONAL. ..DON'T YOU WOR­
I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE ¥.3-5
PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB 
$$$.PANDORA'S BOOKS, BOB Howard RY, I'M FIXIN' TO COME TO TEXAS, "QUESTIONS" Ia grou.
GREG 2727

FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXTPRESIDENT PAT MAHER FOR 
St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 REALLY I AM ... "QUESTIONS" Ia exptlcH.
SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT PAT 1tut goah lt'a fun, huh?
8889 Molly & Patty who were in San Diego for MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESI­Today is APRIL FOOLS DAY... fools be·Spring Break call Steve & Andy from u.
DENT VOTE FRIDAYIIII SMC SOPH. CLASS FORMAL '87 ware!
Maine at 207-827-8221

BLOOMIN' WITH BALLOONS 
Tired of the grotto? Jim Collins is accept­Fri. April 3, 9-1:00 am THREE MESSAGES FOR THREE B.P. 
ing donatiOns for and John Conway hasMORRIS PARK COUNTRY CLUB CHICKS The Random Masher was
r~~~~-;~-~~-~~--~~'--_W_A_N_TE_D-----J 
363 days to CIRCUS LUNCH!!I begun construction on: The George Pep­$12.00 per couple spotted outside of B.P. Saturday night. 
pard Memorial Shrine to be located atBUY YOUR TIX TODAY!! 
Security is investigated the matter, but

Thursday April 2nd is 823 N.D. Ave.
SUMMER JOBS until she is caught no man is safe.
Katy Klrkpetrlck'l

FOUND •• SET OF KEYS ON STEPAN ALL LANQWATER SPORTS A etudy In logic for Amybirthday-call X5201 toINTERHALL FOOTBA' .L FIELDS. IF PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK WVFI-AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! 
GIVEN THAT: 1) The duty of an elected ALL N[}SMC SOPHOMORES JOIN USWish her a Happy 19th
YOU LIVE IN ROOM 236 OF SOME MOUNTAINS WVFI-AM 84 GIVEAWAYS! TONIGHT
official is to satisty their constituency: end birthday

DORM, THESE KEYS ARE YOURS!! HUEY LEWIS AND THE NEWS TIX, PIZ· Half of any constituency is male. 2) Amy AT 9 PM AT BEACON BOWL· SEE YOU CALL WARREN AT 283-1206 TO 381-4224 ZA, TANNING SALON VISITS, HAIR­is an elected official for the Notre Dame THERE CLAIM. CUTS, DINNERS FOR TWO AT LOCAL 
CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 
junior class. IT FOLLOWS THAT: AmyRESTAURANTS, CAKES AND PIES, 
has a duty to satisfy all of the male mem­WANTEDLOST: One pearl earring somewhere in RIDE NEEDED: To New York City ASAP. AND MORElli!! TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM 

bers of the Notre Dame junior class. OJ­or between Lyons and LaFortune the first Please call David Hennekes at 3670. 84 FOR GIVEAWAYS (good luck. I hope that you're taking vi­CHICAGO?!
COACH---ALIVE ORweek of March. If you found it could you 

tamin E) Carol: does he use a sink? Only -BJJUST A PILE OF FLESHplease call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. RIDE NEEDED To Toledo, Ohio on 4{)3 
Are you going to his plumber knows.
IN A POOL OF BLOOD

Thanks. and return 405. Will pay $. Call John 
be here for 

IN AN ALLEY...WHERE NOBODY3559 
SUMMER SCHOOL??? NAZZ COMPETITION RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO VIR­
CARES.

Lost-Maroon, National Gallery POSTER NAZZ COMPETITION THIS FRIDAY GINIA APRIL 1D-12. KATHY 284-4453
THANKS FOR LETTING ME LIVE TO
TUBE with Utrillo print inside. Lef1 be­WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS If so, The Observer needs your help in I I I 7 P.M. STEPAN CENTER ASAP
REMEMBER "MY BIG NIGHTrtween Grace and the East Gate Security SUMMER. 683-8889 

producing some summer issues of the SPON. BY SAB NAZZ COMPE­
WHAT A HUMANITARIAN.

house on the Friday before break. Great 
newspaper. TITION NAZZ COMPETITION U.M.O.C.
··-A LEGITIMATE, NOT-SO-SECRET AD­sentimental value. Call Ann 2595 GOing to WI (Madison, Milwaukee, The jobs are varied and, if you are inter· MIRER
anywhere near)? Ride needed this 
ested in newspaper training in your spare R U.M.O.C.
HEY TOUGH GUYI ... HERE'S YOURHELP! I LOST MY BOOKBAG IN THE weekend. Will share expenses. Call Col­
time, call The Observer offices and ask I
. PERSONALleen at4049.

BOOKSTORE. I REALLY NEED THE 
for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. s U.M.O.C. 
GLASSES THAT WERE IN THERE. .......................................... ··················· 
The Observer Iaiita Hablbtll 
CALL ERIC REINKOBER X3528. HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Residential 
and Happy 21st! E U.M.O.C. 
Camp in Southwestern Michigan needs Special Olympics Wish we were together to celebrate ... 
LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219 Program Directors. Instructors, Unit 
NEEDS YOUIII U.M.O.C.
Tell S.H. I miss him...

OF ROCKNE WED MARCH 11 Leaders, Counselors. Cooks and Kitchen 
I love youll AAides. Call or write for information andBEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR 
I U.M.O.C. IS COMING ... PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO applications. Camp Rosenthal, 3384 JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 
s

Alfredo & Chef Salad, We never knew
QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY WALSH Clawson Rd., Dowagiac. Ml 49047 "PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB E YO MARTINLYOU FEMALE STUD­
that FOOD could be so much FUN!!!
109 2699. (616)424-5272. Call weekdays between SEARCH" HOW MANY LOVE TRIANGLES CAN
Thanks again,
............................................................... 8:30 a.m.& 3:00 p.m. 
PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND RISEIII YOU KEEP? I'D NEVER DO THAT. YEA
KaleLost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3-26 at 
PLACEMENT SERVICES. THEODORE'S SURE AND I DON'T DO CRUSHES
Peaches & Creamthe post office at approximately 10:45 
7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 9:()()-1 :00 A.M. EITHER.
Cauliflowera.m. If found. please call Tim at x4073. 
127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL
FOR SALE 
ALL MAJORS WELCOME. WILL..WILL. .WILL, MR. LIBRARY .. Illinois' answer to U-2.... TOP 9 REASONS TO GO TO A PAT LOST:LEVI'S JEAN JACKET, INSIDE Laguna in the summer sounds devine COSTELLO PARTY (BECAUSE WE LABEL "JOHN S. TULLY", VERY WORN 
but marriage in June I must decline. COULDN'T THINK OF 10) 9 he fre­IN AND FADED. LOST AT CAMPUS Roundtrip ticket tc. Mobile for Easter, JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: Today I'm too young with lots on my sponsored by SAB quently disappears 8 he might be found VIEW FRIDAY NIGHT MAYBE? THIS lea11e Fri. 4117, return Mon. ¥.!0. If inter­"PLANNING AN EFFECTIVE JOB mind ... maybe in June of 1989 You're in the 24 hr lounge 7 he IS willing to WAS GIVEN TO ME BY MY BEST ested call 289-3161 . SEARCH" really hilarious, a really nice guy .. but I've Nazz Nazz Nazz Nazz Nazz believe post party stories 6 he looks ~ke 
FRIEND. SO PLEASE CALL KATY 
PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND run out of money, so goodbye. Charlie Brown-"aaauugh' 5 he might X13191F FOUND THANKS Ad Trp PLANE TIX S.BEND-DC 41S. PLACEMENT SERVICES. Your pal, competition break into his split personality 4 you can 4'20 CALL MARY x3781 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT Who studies on 2 compe@on drink his beer. then go to a real party 3 
LOST Girts gold ID bracelet at Senior 
127 p.m. NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. competition he won't remember he was there 2 he Formal in Chicago. If found please call VIC 1525 Graphic Printer, Like new. Call ALL MAJORS WELCOME. competition won't remember you were there 1 be­Susan Barone at 4520. Dick-232-7116, or Dorothy after 3 pm. Thank you St. Jude cause you really weren't there 

r­
·-------------------------------------~--------~--------------~ ~ 
\ I I April 1~ 1987 The Observer page 14
1 
1 
I 
i 
1 

nes 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today

) 
Baseball vs. VALPARAISO

) SMC track vs. ST. JOSEPH'S and GOSHEN 
Thursday

\ No sports scheduled 
Friday Women's tennis vs. OHIO STATE and SIU-EDWARDSVILLE 
SMC softball at Butler 
Saturday Baseball vs. WISCONSIN (2) lacrosse at Wooster Men's tennis at Ball State Women's tennis vs. OHIO STATE and SIU-EDWARDSVILLE Track at Indiana SMC track at Manchester SMC softball vs. IUPU-INDIANAPOLIS 
Sunday Baseball vs. WISCONSIN (2) 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday Baseball vs. MICHIGAN STATE Men's tennis at Bowling Green 
NCAA Tournament 
NCAA Championship Results 
1987-lndiana 74, Syracuse 73 1986-Louisville 72, Duke 69 1985-Villanova 66, Georgetown 64 1984-Georgetown 84, Houston 75 1983-North Carolina St. 54, Houston 52 1982-North Carolina 63, Georgetown 62 1981-lndiana 63, North Carolina 50 1980-Louisville 59, UCLA 54 1979-Michigan St. 75, Indiana St. 64 1978-Kentucky 94, Duke 88 19n-Marquette 67, North Carolina 59 1976-lndiana 86, Michigan 68 1975-UCLA 92, Kentucky 85 1974-North Carolina St. 76, Marquette 64 1973-UCLA 87, Memphis St. 66 1972-UCLA 81 , Florida St. 76 1971-UCLA 68. Villanova 62 
197Q-UCLA 80, Jacksonville 69 1969-UCLA 92, Purdue 72 1968-UCLA 78, North Carolina 55 1967-UCLA 79, Dayton 64 1966-Texas Western 72, Kentucky 65 1965-UCLA 91, Michigan BO 1964-UCLA 98, Duke 83 1963-Loyola (Ill.) 60, Cincinnati 58, OT 1962-Cincinnati 71, Ohio St. 59 1961-Cincinnati 70, Ohio St. 65, OT 1960-0hio St. 75, California 55 1959-California 71, West Virginia 70 1958-Kentucky 84, Seattle 72 1957-North Carolina 54, Kansas 53, 3 OT 1956-San Francisco 83, Iowa 71 1955-San Francisco n, La Salle 63 
1954-La Salle 92, Bradley 76 1953-lndiana 69. Kansas 68 1952-Kansas 80, St. John's 63 1951-Kentucky 68, Kansas St. 58 1950-CCNY 71, Bradley 68 1949-Kentucky 46, Oklahoma St. 36 1948-Kentucky 58, Baylor 42 1947-Holy Cross 58, Oklahoma 47 1946-0klahoma A&M 43, N. Carolina 40 1945-0klahoma A&M 49, New York 45 1944-Utah 42, Dartmouth 40, OT 1943-Wyoming 46, Georgetown 34 1942-Stanford 53, Dartmouth 38 1941-Wisconsin 39, Washington St. 34 1940-lndiana 60, Kansas 42 1939-0regon 46, Ohio St. 33 

Irish Baseball Sports Lists 
GP AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI BB so SB BA 
:

BATTER 
: 

:
Dan Peltier, OF 16 55 6 21 2 0 2 16 9 3 0 .382 Pat Pesavento, SS 16 62 14 22 2 1 0 12 8 5 5 .355 Ray Szajko, IF-OF 8 21 5 7 2 0 0 0 3 4 1 .333 Mike Moshier, 2B 16 43 7 13 1 0 0 3 3 6 0 .302 Pat O'Brien, C-OF 10 34 9 10 0 0 0 2 2 11 0 .294 

: .: :. : Steve Skupien, 3B 14 49 10 12 1 1 1 6 8 11 3 .245 Craig Pavlina, C 10 29 3 7 2 0 0 2 2 4 1 .241 Tim Hutson, 1 B 16 55 4 12 1 0 2 4 7 12 0 .218 
Home Run,. Mike Aynn, OF 14 52 2 11 1 0 2 9 1 26 0 .212 Scott Rogers, OF 10 31 3 6 1 0 0 2 4 11 2 .194 
Carl Yastrzemski (1979-1983) 49 
John Loughran, OF 16 59 3 11 2 0 0 3 3 8 0 .186 Don Diebel, OF 5 8 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 .125 
Stan Musial (1961-1963) 46
Kevin Smith, OF 6 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 NOTRE DAME 16 501 68 133 15 2 7 59 52 102 12 .265 

Ted WiHiams (1961-1963) 44
OPPONENTS 16 484 72 123 17 4 9 64 76 58 24 .265 

nkAaron (1974-1976) 42 
Left on base: Notre Dame 121, Opponents 110 

llie McCovey (1977-1980) 28 Willie Mays (1971-1973) 27
PITCHER GP GS CG IP H BB so R ER w L ERA Tom Howard 2 0 0 8.2 6 3 7 1 1 0 0 1.04 



Tony Perez (1982-1986) 20
Mike Harmon 4 0 0 9.0 6 9 6 4 3 1 0 3.00 Kevin Chenail 4 4 2 28.0 18 17 11 11 10 1 2 3.21 

Cy Williams (1928-1930) 17
Brian Poitrowicz 4 4 2 27.0 24 16 15 11 11 1 2 3.67 Mike Passilla 4 4 1 23.2 31 11 12 14 11 1 1 4.18 Erik Madsen 3 0 0 8.0 12 2 1 5 4 0 1 4.50 

Enos Slaughter (1956-1959) 17 
AobertFitz 2 2 1 9.2 10 7 1 6 5 1 1 4.66 John Gleeson 4 0 0 6.0 7 4 2 4 4 2 1 6.00 
apAnson (1892-1897) 
13 Paul Mauk 3 0 0 2.0 2 3 0 5 2 0 0 9.0 Derk Madden 1 1 0 2.1 5 1 1 6 5 0 1 19.29 Mike Coffey 1 1 0 0.1 2 3 0 5 4 0 0 108.01 NOTRE DAME 16 16 6 124.2 123 78 56 72 80 7 9 4.33 OPPONENTS 16 16 4 129.0 133 52 102 68 55 9 7 3.84 

Saves: Notre Dame 1 (Gleeson), Opponents 3 
W1lel Conter.nce Adema Dlvlalon W L T OF OA Pta. X·Hartford 42 28 7 280 258 91 
Indiana's Road to the Championship Conferences In NCAA Tournament x-Montreal 38 29 10 263 236 86 x·Boston 39 32 7 298 267 85 Quebec 28 39 10 249 267 66 
The game-by-game road that the Indiana Buffalo 27 43 7 265 297 61
The records of each conference in the 1987 Hoosiers took to win the NCAA national bas-
NCAA men's basketball tournament with ketball championship: Petrick Dlvlalon
number of teams from each conference in 
parentheses: 
Regular Season Conference w Indiana 90, Montana St. 55 PCAA (1) 4 Indiana 67, Notre Dame 62 Big East (5) 14 Indiana 71 , Kentucky 66 Big Ten (6) 12 Vanderbilt 79, Indiana 75 Independents (3) 5 Indiana 73, N. Carolina-Wilmington 72 SEC (6) 8 Indiana 96, East Carolina 68 Big Eight (4) 5 Indiana 84, Morehead St. 62 WAC (3) 3 Indiana 67, Louisville 58 Mid-Continent (1) 1 Indiana 83, Princeton 54 Midwest Collegiate (1) 1 Indiana 82, Illinois St. 58 ACC (6) 5 Indiana 92, Ohio St. 80 Atlantic 1 0 (2) 1 Indiana 79, Michigan St. 60 Ohio Valley (2) 1 Indiana 85, Michigan 84 Pac-10 (2) 1 Indiana 103, Wisconsin 65 swc (2) 1 Indiana 95, Northwestern 43 Sun Belt (3) 1 Iowa 101 , Indiana 88 Big Sky (1) 0 Indianan, Minnesota 53 Colonial (1) 0 Indiana 69, Illinois 66 East Coast (1) 0 Indiana 88, Purdue 77 ECAC Metro (1) 0 Indiana 84, Michigan St. 80 ECAC North Atlantic (1) 0 Indiana 83, Michigan 67 Ivy (1) 0 Indianan, Northwestern 75 Metro Atlantc (1) 0 Indiana 86, Wisconsin 85, 30T Mid-American (1) 0 Indiana 72, Minnesota 70 MEAC (1) 0 Indiana 84, iowa 75 Southam (1) 0 Purdue 75, Indiana 64 Southland (1) 0 Illinois 69, Indiana 67 SWAC (1) 0 Indiana 90, Ohio St. 81 Trans American (1) 0 
Missouri Valley (2) 0 
West Coast (2) 0 
y-Philadelphia 45 24 8 301 232 98 x-Waahington 35 32 10 211 210 eo x-N.Y. Islanders 34 32 11 243 268 79 x-N.Y. Rangers 34 35 8 301 305 76
L Pet. 
Pitteburgh 28 38 12 287 285 68 
1 .800 
New Jeraey 29 42 6 282 348 84 5 .737 
5 .706 Cempbell eont.r.nce 
3 .625 Smythl DYIIIon W L T OF QA pta
6 .571 
y-Edmonton 49 24 5 361 2n 103
4 .556 
x-Calgary 46 30 2 313 282 94
3 .500 
x-Winnipeg 39 31 8 272 264 86 
1 
.500 x-Los Angeles 31 38 8 310 321 70 

1 
.500 Vancouver 26 43 8 263 305 eo 

6 
.455 Morrill DIYtalon x-Detrolt 34 33 10 254 265 78


2 .333 
x-st Louia 29 33 15 269 287 73
2 .333 
2 .333 
Chicago 28 38 13 280 301 69
2 .333 
Toronto 31 41 6 281 313 68 
3 .250 y-cllnched division title 1 .000 x-cllnchfld playoff bertt1 1 .000 1 .000 L.a81 Nlght'a Reaultl 
Boston 4, Quebec 3

1 .000 
New Jersey 5, Pittsburgh 3

1 .000 
Washington 4, Toronto 2

1 .000 
N.Y. Islanders 4, St. Louis 3 1 .000 Edmonton 5, Winnipeg 4 OT 
1 
.000 Tonight'• o_. 

1 
.000 Hartford at Montreal Washington at N.Y. Rangers


1 .000 
Philadelphia at Detroit

1 .000 
Minnesota at Chicago

1 .000 
Vancouver at Los Angeles

1 .000 2 .000 
2 .000 lnterhall Soccer 
NCAA Tournament Division I
lnterhall Baseball 

ISO 3, Law School 1 Gold Division Grace 2, Pangborn 0 Midwest Regional Stanford-2 8, Grace B 4 Sorin over Dillon Red Indiana 92, Fairfield 58 Alumni over Howard Silver Thunder over Holy Cross B Indiana 107, Auburn 90 Red Division 
Division II 

Indiana 88, Duke 82 ·stanford-1 over Off Campus-1 Flanner 2, Howard 1Indiana n, Louisiana State 76 
Keenan over Stanford-3 Grace-2 over Gerlacher 
Blue Division Keenan Z over Cavanaugh Pangborn over Off Carnpus-2 Morrissey over Holy Cross A Carroll B over Flanner
The Final Four Indiana 97, Nevada-Las Vegas 93 White Division Women's Division Indiana 74, Syracus~ 73 Zahm 1 0, Alumni 2 0 Pasquerilla West 2, Breen-Phillips 1 
E11tern Conference Atlantic Dlvlalon 

Minnesota 30 39 9 291 306 89

.  W  L  Pet.  OB  
y-Boston  53  20  .726  
X·Philadelphia  40  32  .556  12.5  
Washington  36  35  .507  16  
New York  22  50  .306  30.5  
New Jersey  21  50  .296  31  
Centr1l Dlvtalon  
x-Attanta  48  23  .676  
x-Detroit  47  25  .653  1.5  
x-Milwaukee  43  30  .589  6  
x-Chicago  37  36  .507  12  
Indiana  36  35  .507  12  
Cleveland  27  46  .370  22  
Wlltem Conference  
Mldwelt Dlvlllon  
W  L  Pel  OB  
JC-Danaa  49  24  .671  
x-Utah  40  32  .556  8.5  
x-Houston  37  36  .507  12  
Denver  32  41  .438  17  
San Antonio  26  46  .361  22.5  
Sacramento  23  49  .319  25.5  
Pacific DIYialon  
y-L.A. Lakers  57  15  .792  
K·Portland  44  28  .611  13  
Golden State  37  34  .521  19.5  
Seattle  36  38  .486  22  
Phoenix  26  45  .366  30.5  
L.A. CNppers  12  59  .169  44.5  
y-clinched division title  
x-clinched playoff berth  
L.alt Nlgtrt'a Reaulta  
New York 128. Boston 120  
Philadelphia 116, Cleveland 105  
Chicago 101, Washington 75  
Dallas 118, L.A. Clippers 102  
Denver 111 , San Antonio 106  
Utah 11 0, Phoenix 95  
L.A. Lakers 111, Houston 96  
Portland 113, Detroit 111  
Seattle 132, Sacramento 129  
Tonight'• Oamea  
Washington at Boston  
New York at New Jersey  
Clevelano at Philadelphia  
Chicago at Indiana  
Atlanta at Milwaukee  
Utah at San Antonio  
Houston at Phoenix  

I mrg iiEII!U3i•t$1·11 
Central Division Keenan B 3, Zahm 0 Stanford over Holy Cross, forfeit 
North Division Grace 4, Carroll 1 OC Beastie Boys 3, Flanner A 2 
South Division Alumni 3, Pangborn 2 Fisher 4, Dillon 2 
Talent????

j Competition!!!! 
We'll Rock your socks off 22 of the hottest acts on campus Vocalize your thoughts and support your favorite group! 


~~~.q>·.Q>~~.Q>~~··.Q>·§ 
NO AVE APTS.  ~  
Early Bird Special  ~  
Now renting for Fall  §  
2 Bedroom completely  ~  
~furnished § Sign up before break and receive a  ~§  
~.  10 percent discount  ~  
§ ~ &  Call 234-6647 Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency  § J§  

~~. 0>'>~·~..Q>·-<7> 

The Observer 
Wednesday, April1, 1987-page 15 




Bookstore Basketball, yesterday and today Holtz 
continuedfrom page 20 
Boobto,. TourMment 
Tueed.y'a Reaultl 

Stepen 1 5 Guys Sportln' over Team No. 493 by 15 Eggs & Sausage, Beans & Chips over Officer Ashley by 11 Damian Lebamoff & 4 Other Snakes over Phtphppt by 11 
Stepen 2 Original Name Censored by Student Activities over I Wish I Was by 12 Deathtongue over Grandpa & the 4 Bad Touches by 20 The 5'10" Guys over Wenatr.hee Wonders by 15 
Stept~n 3 Dr Bralge & the 4 Players over We Were Illegally Recruited by SMU by 9 Uncontrollable Aatulence from Hell over The Inside Traders by 3 Friends of the Sea Otter over JJ & the TA's by 11 
Step8n 4 Team No. 421 over Now We Go to School -The Last Class by 12 STUDD over 5 Skins and No. Players by 12 Dripping Tazmanian Pig Snots over Two on Five by 14 
Stept~n 5 Team No. 622 over lggy & the Anglos by 4 Toil and Trouble over Bush Garden by 9 Team No. 651. over Captain Kosher, His Board & 3 Nails by 12 
Stepen 8 Skip Holtz, the War Memorial, & 3 Other Useless Blocks over Gerry's by 14 Sheep Thrills over Largest Agbejemison and the Smurls from Hell by 1o Spigot O'Vomit over Tinkle by 9 
Book81or.ll Verkler Construction over Esophagus Constrictors 
by 16 . Citizens for Oliver North over 4 Goons & a Child Molester by 16 Remember that Keg the Police Took over NO Wo­menby11 Ronald Reagen, Liberace, & 3 other Guys over Thanks Fr Nieuwland by 14 
Book81or.10 Team No. 588 over Team No. 262 by 6 Fly Girl and the Boogie Boys over 1 Phelta Thi by 3 Team No. 263 over Alcoholic & 4 Anonymouses by 2 
Lyona 11 

Sets 3 to 5 and Building over 5 Guys who used to Uke Jim Ues by 14 The Ball-Headed Freakdaddies over Gumby & 4 Other Senior Bar Patrons by 13 5 Guys from Carroll who Beat Dillon over 5 Guys who don't know by 12 
Lyona 12 The Raging Meatuses over 5 Guys Hung like Horses by8 Flying Fubar 5 over 3 Foaming Tankards of Ale and ::2 Serving Wenches by 12 




( 
Interested in helping to manage and accountfor 
$385,000? 

If you are a sophomore business major who enjoys working with money and people, Student Government needs you as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
Applications are available in the Treasurer's oft1ce, 2nd floor LaFortune, between 12-4:30 pm. They are due Tuesday, Aprll7th, by 4:30pm. 
Any questions? Contact Chris Grandpre at 239-7417. 
~~ 


Wednnd.y'a Oamea 
Bookator. II 

4:00 -Internationalists vs Spank & the Monkeys 
4:45 -So We Couldn't Think ... VB Duncan-Hines & the Pillsbury 
5:30 -Team No. 575 VB Team No. 295 
6:15-Team No. 595 va Hoosier Lawyer? Booclator. 10 
4:00 -5 Guys who Aow like River vs Team No. 576 
4:45 -We May Not Be Big But We're Slow vs Hodgemasters 
5:30 -Hot for Ted vs The Doobie Brothers 
6:15 -5 Guys: One Dream, No Hope VB 4 Guys 
who date SMC's ... Lyona 11 
4:00 -We're Worsa Than We Look VB Team No. 124 
4:45 -5 Generic Drunks VB Team No. 546 
5:30 -Still Clueless VB The Mad Doctors 
6:15 -The Hedonists 1111 Drive, Shoot, Penetrate, Layup, & Score 
Lyona 12 4:00-JJ Hearn, We Need You VB The Yacht Club 
4:45 -TBA va Pete and Toni Are Fat 5:30-Tumble Weeds VB Ponders Points Python 
6:15 -Suicide Squads VB Rat Pack 
Stepen 1 

4:00 -The Rich Incident, NO Sows & 3 other reasons ... vs Team No. 626 
4:45 -Team No. 271 vs Chicks Dig Us 
5:30 -Snow Blowers vs Extended Clrcte 
6:15 -Los Que No Nos Ganen, ... vs Herby & 4 other Misfits 
Stepen 2 

4:00 -The Condos vs Team Nn. 101 
4:45 -6 Feet Under VB Tax Fights Back With the All New Hoosiers 
5:30 -5 Crazy Girls Who Don't Even Know the Rules vs McHugh Retoske 6:15-Rim Chew vs What's Smaller than a Taenia, Weenie Fly? 
Stepan 3 

4:00 -The Thundering Gumbies from Hell VB We Suck Snot 4:45-Put a Helmet on that Soldier 118 Home Boys 5:30-Team No. 128 VB WIHy Wonka & the Sodium Clowns 6:15-Gashmasters vs 5 My's & Their 48" Tools 
Stepen 4 4:00-I Compute vs Future's So Bright Gotta Wear Shades 
4:45 -Basketball's a Dumb Game Arlyway 118 Team No. 531 
5:30-The Invisible Touch vsi\Aoving Towards Equi­librium 
6:15 -Holy Rollers VB The Longer Half of the Ten Man 
Stepen IS 

4:00 -Team No. 28 VB Phi Slamma Jamma 
4:45 -Team No. 6 vs Effects of Alcohol 5:30-AV Daggers vs The Tower Commission 6:15-Get Your Tongue vs Fuzzy Navels 
Stepen II 4:00-Length, Girth, Bumpy, & the Little Man in the Canoe VB Team No. 628 4:45-Too Short to Shoot 118 You drew a Bye 5:30-Our Backsides are our Best Sides VB Team 
No.~ 

6:15 -Otis Hurts va Steak Fajitas 

We cater to weddings 
and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 



DON'T GIVE UP HOPE, GIVE HOPE. 

NOTRE DAMEI ST. MARY'S Jrd. ANNUAL CHARITY BALL APRIL 4, 1987. * 9-2am. • S. DINING HALL 
Holtz, scored the game-winner 
from what would have been 
beyond the three point line at 
the ACC, and denied that he 
came in taking his opponents 
lightly. 
"Hey, they're a smart team 
-a very smart team," Stewart 
joked. "You can never over­
look any team that uses their 
heads as much as they do." 
Holtz, who was out of town 
for today's game, will compete 
with Verkler's for the 
remainder of the time they sur­
vive in the tournament. Con­
strictors team member Pat 
Lampton alleged that cowar­
dice was the Irish head coach's 
motive for missing the game. 
"Sure, Lou will take on Ala­
bama and Penn State," said a 
disgruntled Lampton. "But 
when a real challenge rolls 
'\round, he won't take on the 
Constrictors.'' 
Because of the immense 
number of teams in this year's 
tournament, the tradition of the 
Hall of Fame game as the sole 
contest on the first day of the 
tournament was broken in fa­
vor of playing some of the 
games in the preliminary 
round. In other action yester­
day, Gary Freeman of Death­
tounge scored all 21 of his 
team's points in a 21-1 drubbing 
of Grandpa and the Four Bad 
Touches. 
Also, Uncontrollable Flatulence from Hell nipped the Inside Traders, 21-18, be­hind Darren Mertz' 14 points and 20 rebounds. Dave Krus and Craig Pichatie, calling themselves Two on Five, played just that against the ever-popular Dripping Tas­manian Pig Snots, but the Snots blew out the duo, 21-7. 
Impressive showings were turned in by the Ball-Headed Freakdaddies, led by Irish ful­lbank Braxton Banks and Will Anderson's 9-of-14 shooting in a 21-9 thrashing of Gumby and Four Other Senior Bar Pa­trons. Five Guys From Carroll who Beat Dillon also beat Five Guys who Also Had No Idea What Reagan Said on Aug. 8 yesterday, behind Bobby Kloska's 6-of-10 shooting per­formance. And, in a battle that raged on for an astounding one hour and 23 minutes, Sheep Thrills sheared Largest Ag­bejemisin and the Smurfs From Hell by a score of 21-11. 
Team captain Steve Degroot blamed wind-chill tempera­tures in the teens for his squad's inability to score quickly, but he is anxious to see snow on the courts for his team's upcoming games. 
"We've practiced in the snow because we realize that we can only win if our opponents are at extreme disadvantages," said DeGroot. "We're dream­ing of a white Easter." 
na1lcs to you ... 
itwortcs... 
for ALL. OFUS 


UnllilldYlay 

--~ -----~~­
r---~~-------------------.---....--.._-...... r 
Wednesday, April1, 1987 -page 16
The Observer 

'l1le Observer1 Jim Carroll 
Marv Spence, shown here last season In the season opener against Michigan, and the Irish football secondary have been coming along during spring football. Marty Strasen's story on spring practice begins on page 20. 

Southall 
continuedfrom page 20 
very little playing time, and now has been shuffled to free safety, where he appears to be 


i' one of the top contenders for a position on the first team this spring. 
"I really can't say who the favorites are at this point," Forbes said, "but I will say that Corny Southall has been playing very, very well and really seems to have learned the position. I anticipate that his move to free safety is a per­manent one." 
Other likely candidates at free safety are freshman Dave Jandric and senior Chris Kvoc­hak, who played at cornerback last season and has seen time at both positions this spring. He 

\ also remains a top candidate at the corner position. 
l 
i \ Returning as a fifth-year senior at cornerback is Marv Spence, who made 33 tackles I. and picked off a pass last 
\• season. Other leading chal­lengers for a spot at corner in­clude Brandy Wells, who con­tinues a switch from strong safety which took place last season. Wells made 41 tackles last year while slowed with a knee injury he suffered in mid­October. 
Kvochak, freshman Stan Smagala (nine tackles), Bob Saterfield and senior James Bobb, who saw time at free safety and made 14 tackles last 


NV A deadlines near 
Special to The Observer 

Non-Varsity Athletics has li announced deadlines for a 
'I 
i ~ number of upcoming events on the NVA agenda. j! Included are the following: Today is the deadline for fen· cing, a novice tournament with 
I,. 
both men's and women's divi­i sions, all equipment provided, 
l. 
i 
' ~ at least one rotation of PE fen­cing suggested. Friday is the deadline for
1. 
kayaking, with classes, outings \ and a $19 fee which includes equipment.\ April6 is the last day to reg­
! 
I 
I i 
. \ ! ·. ' BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
\: 
l 
' 
\. 
' 
I 

I 
i 
~ 


Lf'GtJI~!J·lli ~~j~au._ 
I 

}{AP:(t ~F< '1-to:JD -t~tut,... JJf uJil t:oo~ 
ffi'20t/J.i (7...'f'Nh~-l>J 
~Afl~atl ~ ''R.ts~ ~ ~aJ: ':Jo~ 

~ I 

ister for the annual Irish Spring Runs, with three and six-mile events slated for Sunday, April 
12. There is a $4 entry fee. 
April 8 is the deadline for a pair of tennis tournaments, one for grad-faculty and another for hall teams. 
In addition, NVA class offer­ings still open include Hydrorobics, Stretchercise, Karate and Scuba Diving. 
Registration andt>r further information on these activities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
season, are also in the hunt for positions at cornerback. 
Another close battle in the secondary is taking place at 

strong safety, where the top -w~it~h~tlhie···of~~~~~~~D-ioiriiol.••••••••••••••••••••••~, 


·".(~ welcome to champs 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -The pep band had already been through its routine three or four times Tuesday when the celebrating Indiana fans began lobbing rolls of toilet paper over the scoreboards high above packed Assembly Hall floor. 
The NCAA champion Hoosiers' plane from New Or­leans was late, but no one really cared. The party started without them . 
"Hoo-siers, Hoo-siers," the crowd of about 15,000 chanted as they waited to greet the team that beat Syracuse 74-73 the previous night. 
Across the hall, draped im­pressively from the rafters, were the four giant red banners proclaiming Indiana's previ­ous NCAA basketball titles. A fifth -the third for Coach Bob Knight in 16 years at Indiana­will go next to the others. 
"I've had a chance to coach a lot of players and a lot of 
candidatPs are hard-hitting teams," Knight said to the sophomore George Streeter (44 crowd. "There's never been a tackles) and Yale transfer stu-team I've taken greater pride dent Pat Eilers. Forbes also in for what it has accom­pointed out that he is pleased plished~, 

l>ESC.~\Pr\o-JS CR-:FOS\'T~ ..At-Jt:> -APPL\CA\\O~S AVA\l ~SLE:. I~ ~ T a=-F\C eS ­2..Nt:> R...CX::e. LA~. A.PPL..\CA\\Q...i,S DUE. !>Y 
4·co~ -Fl2\t::aAV, A~\L 3. 
In five of the Hoosiers' six tourney victories, they had to battle from behind. Twice, they won by one point on baskets in the closing seconds, including Monday night's comeback from eight points down that was won on tourney MVP keith 
Smart's  jumper  with  five  
seconds to go.  
"Hopefully,  this  team  will  

show you when you've got prob­lems of your own, when things aren't going well for you, each of you can find a Keith Smart if you look around a little bit to help you," Knight said. 
But Knight's philosophy for success wasn't what the screaming fans, many of whom had been waiting more than three hours, had come to hear. 
They wanted their heroes. And they gave them a heroes' welcome as they climbed a platform with a sea of red at their feet. 
"Weren't there any classes today?'' joked reserve forward Todd Meier, one of the team's three seniors. Then he pointed 
across the vast arena to the four NCAA banners and said, "I'm really proud because we came back here and put an­other banner down there." 

Wednesday, April!, 1987-page 17
The Observer 




with Student Government: 
The Student Assistant Treasurer 
Applications available at Open House 
The Cabinet Positions 
Applications available at Open House 
The Student Activities Board 
Questions? We'll answer them at the Open House 


The Senators 
Sign--up for Senate Advisory Committees at the Open House 

~ The Judicial Council 
~
I Talk to us about our Legal Referral Service at the Open ~ House 

The Classes Freshmen: Come & talk to us about next year! 

Sophomores: Applications for next year's Advisory Coun-­cil and Commissioners available at Open House 
. 

Juniors: You can return the Applications you received in the mail at the Open House 


Wed., April 1 (TONIGHT) 7-9:00 pm . 2nd Floor LaFortune 



The Observer Wednesday, April1, 1987 -page 18 

\\ i" 
I• 
\' I 
1: 
I.I. 
)~ 
,~ 
H 
~~ 
. 
I 
'' ' 

l \ 
\ I • 
'. 
)L.1\ 

lfl··.
I, 
i" 


Weather stops Irish baseball again, to meet Valparaiso at home today 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 

. The South Bend weather gods must not be fans of Notre Dame baseball. 
After having one game rained out last week, and a game called for darkness last weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team had yesterday's game with Bethel postponed because of cold weather. The wind chill factor around Jake Kline Field yesterday hovered around 5 degrees, according to Irish head coach Larry Gallo. 
Weather permitting, Notre Dame will face Valparaiso at 
2:30 p.m. today at Jake Kline Field, and will continue its home stand tomorrow at 2 p.m. against Bethel. 
"The main thing we have to do is play consistently, and that's tough to do when you don't play that much," said Gallo. "Right now we're playing on weekends and vaca­tions it seems. I felt we had es­tablished some momentum in Texas, and we come back and get the rainout. It's still March, and the weather won't be like this forever." 
The Irish won six of ten games in Texas over spring break, then lost two of three games last week. Notre Dame's current record is 7-9. 
While Notre Dame is having a tough time completing its schedule of games, Valparaiso already has almost 30 games under its belt. The Crusaders, who stand at 16-11-2, have been led by third baseman Dale Polonus, with a .360 batting average, six home runs, and 28 runs batted in. 
Valparaiso has also received solid pitching from today's scheduled starter, Shawn Barker. In his freshman season, Barker has a 2-2 record with a 1.88 earned run average. 
"Their coach, Rich Ferchen, has done an excellent job during the years he's been there," said Gallo. "They have a scrappy bunch of players, and they play a pretty compet­itive schedule.'' 
The Irish plan to start fresh­man Mike Coffey today. Coffey had a successful fall season, 
TheZenithOpen HouseSale, Itbeatspayingfull price, 
Especially when you can get your very own Zenith Personal Computer at a Special Student Price! 

Why are more and more students and faculty turning to Zenith PCs? Find out at the Zenith Open House Sale on your campus, where you can save on our exciting Zenith PCs, including: 
The IBM PC-Compatible Zenith Z-148 Desktop 
PC The most popular Zenith PC on U.S. campuses, the Z-148 PC features: 
• 
Compatibility with virtually all IBM PC" software 

• 
256K of RAM-expandable to 640K on main board 

• 
Up to 720K of floppy disk storage 

• 
Dual speed processing that offers a response time up to 60% faster than the IBM PC 

• 
The ability to support most peripherals right out of the box 

• 
And the 20MB Hard Disk ver~ion offers increased storage and expandability in a low­cost PC. 


Hard Disk Special Student Price Special Student Price 
$799.00 * $1,199.00 * 
So why pay full price when you can get a break during the Zenith Open House Sale at: 
Date: April 9, 1987 Time: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Place: Computer Center-
Demo Room Contact: Lisa Hines 239-5153 
We're also opening the door to special savings on these other exciting Zenith Personal Computers... 



'New SupertwrstLCD screen lor greater readab1hly Spec1al Student Pnce 5999.00 

Zenith Z-248 Advanced pe• 'Includes l:I/M-1240 Monochrome 'IBM PC/AP compatibility Monitor 1.2MB Single Driwe 'Color mon1tor also ava1lable Special Student Pnce $1,599.00 Dual Drive 20MB Hard Disk 
Spec1al Student Pnce 51.049.00 Spectal Student Pr1ce $2,299.00 20MB Hard Disk 40MB Hard Disk IIVIIilable Spec1al Student Pnce 51,449.00 
ZenithZ·159PC 

SQKtat onong oftet" good ontv on ourcNses through Zentth Cons.Gifsl llsled above by students lacutty ana steff tor lhe1t own use No ott'tet discounts apply L•mlf one pers.or.at computer an<! one monltOf per 11\&vtdullt •n any 11 ·month pet-od Prtees ~btect to ch•ogr Without nohee 
~lfNI'N !~ferns 
'Morutor not Included 1n pr1ces 
C 1987. Zenolh Oola Systems 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAM£ GOES ON 
Zenith ZVM-1220 Monochrome MonitOi" 'less distorted 111ewmg 'High resoluhon Spec1al Student Prtce $99.00 
ASk about our other monochrome and color monttors 
but has seen action in only one game so far this spring. 
"He only pitched in Texas, and we've only played three games since then," said Gallo. 
Another freshman, right fielde!' Dan Peltier, has been the main man offensively for the Irish. Peltier leads the team with a .382 batting average, two home runs, and 16 runs batted in. Shortstop Pat Pesavento is not far behind, with a .355 average and 12 runs batted in. Pesavento also has. five stolen bases. 
On the mound, Tom Howard has a 1.04 earned run average, Kevin Chenail leads the starters with as 3.21 ERA, and reliever John G Ieeson is the lone Irish pitcher with two wms. 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we otTer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 

built through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
it 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
-
ie 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
-Earthtone Interiors 
Country Kitchens 
-
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
5 Macaw  
6 Nymph  
7 Greenland  
settlement  
8 Anatomical  
tissue  
9 Mil. address  
10 Synthetic  
lady?  
11 Actor Alan  
12 Teem  
13 Corner  
21 Grating  
22 Swampy land  
27 Comp. pt.  
28 Sweet-voiced  
lady?  
29 Enumerate  
30 Aide: abbr.  4/1/87  
31 Despot 32 One-man stint  39 Ninnies for short  50 Termagant 51 Leaf supporter  
33 Low-grade wool 34 Find fault 35 Locks  42 Meadow 43 Moiety 45 Check time  52 Heraldic band 53 Come up short 55 "When I was-"  
36 Strike with a  47 Unadorned  56 Mislay  
dull sound 37 Danger color  48 Slangy lingo 49 Storehouse  57 Dobbin's food 59 Oriental coin  


The Observer Wednesday, April 1, 1987-page 19 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

... .. 




• 




Campus 
11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m.: Economics De­partment Labor Workshop, Ruth Bandzak, graduate student in Economics, thesis pro­posal, 131 Decio 
12:00-1:30 p.m.: Lecture, "Law, Tech­nology, and the Ozone Problem," by Prof. Harvey Brooks, 112 Law School, Sponsors: Program in Science, Technology and Values and the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government 
12:10 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15 p.m.: Discussion, "Aid to Nicaragua: Pubic & Private," by Sonia Garcia, Director of External Cooperation in Managua, Nicaragua, New Orleans Room, 1st floor LaFortune 
2:30 -5:00 P.M.: Tax Assistance Pro­gram, Social Concerns Coffeehouse 
3:15p.m.: Engineers' Week, pie-eating 
contest on quad in front of Cushing; prizes 
will be awarded 
3:30p.m.: Varsity Track and Field, SMC 
vs. Goshen College and St. Joseph's Col­
lege, at SMC Track 
4:00p.m.: Engineers' Week, Egg Drop, on quad in front of Cushing, prizes awarded 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "New Force in Nature?" by Prof. Ephraim Fischback, Purdue University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
7:00p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: Plan­ning an Effective Job Search," by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director of Career and Placement Services, 127 Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall 
7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "Spinal Tap," $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Movie, "The Business of Hunger" and "I Want to Live," 123 Nieuwland Science Hall, free 
7: 30 p.m. : Slide presentation, "Some Treasures of the Bodleian Library," by David G. Vaisey, librarian of the Bodleian Library, Oxford University, Libraray Auditorium, sponsors: College of Arts and Letters, Friends of the Notre Dame Li­brary, Office of Advanced Studies, and the University of Notre Dame Archives 
7:30 p.m.: Faculty Senate Meeting, 202 CCE 
7:45p.m.: Pax Christi Prayer for Peace 
at the Grotto 

8:00p.m.: Lecture, Senator John Tower, 
investigator of the Iran-Contra Arms Deal, 
"National Security in an Open Society," 
$2, Washington Hall 

8:00p.m.: SMC Peacemakers' Series on Women and Peacemaking, "Eleanor: A Celebration," the story of Eleanor Roosevelt, starring Toni Gillman, written and directed by Gordon Davis, O'Laughlin Auditorium, tickets: adults $4, students $2.50 
8:00 
p.m.: Exxon Lecture Series, Theme: History and the Social Sciences, "Patriotism and the Use of History," by Prof. John Bodnar, Indiana University, Bloomington, 122 Hayes Healy Auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.: Mrican Studies Program Film, "Winnie and Nelson Mandela," a bi­ographical film, Multipurpose Room of the Social Concerns Center 


8:00p.m.-9:00 p.m.: NDSMC Charity Ball, Mandatory meeting for all commit­tees and dorm reps, LaFortune Little Theater 
9:00p.m. Sophomore bowling night at the Beacon Bowl 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Eggplant Parmigiana Italian Pizza Bun Chicken Romano Beef Stroganoff with Egg Noodles 
Saint Mary's 

Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Filet of Fish Florentine Fettucine Carbonara Deli Bar 
RESERVED SEATING: Tickets $2 each; available at The Cellar in the basement of the Lafortune Student Center from Thursday, March 26 to Wednesday, April1. 

The Daily Crossw-ord 


ACROSS 1 Cod or Horn 5 Keats or 
Shelley 

9 Separately 14 Rank 15 Johnson, 
funny man 16 Certain bear 17 Reddish-brown 18 Actual 19 Time-tested 
song 20 Transposed 
lady? 23 Path 24 Delibes or 
Genn 25 Staff 26 At all 28 Tiny amount 29 Certain 
customs 

documents 33 Hurt 36 Owner 38 False god 39-fund 40 Tall story 41 Very bright 43 Biblical king 44 Take for 
oneself 45 Golf term 46 Hat 4 7 Good buddy 48 Roman bronze 51 Divan 54 Adventurous 
lady? 58 Across: pref. 60 Heavy burden 61 Culture 
medium 62 Upper crust 63 Huge land area 64 Drink too much 65 Bonus 66 Refute 67 Ragout 
DOWN 1 Atoll material 2 By oneself 3 Chopin's 
instrument 4 Ms Millay 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD presents: 
SEN. JOHN TOWER 

Chairman of "The Tower Commission" Investigator of the Iran/Contra Arms Deal 
~1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/1/87All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

! ' 
I Ii, 
I :: I '· I '. 
I ;
• l
'. 
\ 
I 
l., 
j· 
ll 

Jll/, 
'I 
~ 
.. 
•
'·i 
f< 
' 
~ 
k 
I . \jI 
I I r1ik 
I I~ ­I 
·~ 
,} 
r 
1\ 
l;i
I 
~1 
I 
~ .­
0
.
I 



!I "' 
g
I 
~ 
i 
?.:. 
' 
11
l, 
. i I ' . . ' " l ~-·' 
:· 
. ~} . ~ 
' 
. ~ I •,' ( 
' >
l -~ 
( t 
~ ~ 
! j 
''· 

j' 



Seorts 
Bookstore Basketball officially underway 
By PETE SKIKO and the back in the second half and BRIAN O'GARA proceeded to throw several Sports Writers passes to the other team. 
"I want to make it clear that 

The sixth annual Hall of those interceptions came under Fame game kicked off heavy pressure, and nobody Bookstore Basketball XVI was open," he said. "There Tuesday, as Verkler Construc­were a lot of dropped balls out tion, led by former Irish bas­there, I hope you noticed that." ketball player Jim Dolan, The Constrictors failed to 
Bookstore Basketball 
XVI 
defeated the crowd-pleasing 
Esophagus Contrictors, 21-6. 
The Esophagus Constrictors kept the crowd of 300-plus laughing throughout the one­sided game with several humorous antics. They rushed onto the court wearing taped glasses and sporting their GPA's on the back of their jer­seys (3.9, 3.9, 3.97, 4.0 and 4.0) as the Notre Dame Victory March blared in the back­ground. Team warmups kept the crowd chuckling as the Con­strictors threw up several bricks and used the free time to study their books. 
The Constrictors used several mixing defenses to try to confuse the Verkler Con­struction team, including their Ghandi defense of passive re­sistance, during which they fell to the court and watched as Dolan easily dropped in a layup. They also used a box­and-one defense, as four players held a box in the middle of the lane and one defender chased the ball, and a double­Dolan defense with one player on another's shoulders, swat­ting shots as they reached the hoop. 
"We wanted to cut the game short because we had a lot of studying to do, otherwise we would have displayed a lot more talent than we did," said Tony Lanza, who donned a No. 7 jersev with "Beuerlein" on convert a half-court shot which they tried to calculate through wind velocity and the position­ing of the court on the Earth. In previous years they have been successful with that shot. 

"We have made that 95 per­cent of the time," said Lanza. 
"We missed it because of  a  
lunar  miscalculation.  It's  a  
very scientific procedure."  

Tournament Commisioner Steve Wenc was pleased with the strong crowd turnout and results of the Hall of Fame game. 
"I thought they put on a fan­tastic show," said Wenc. "That's what the Hall of Fame game is there for -to get every­one in the right mood for the tournament and to start it all off on the right foot." 
Dolan, admittedly kept off­balance by the Constrictors' antics, praised his teammates for keeping their concentration while preserving the win. 
"They (the Constrictors) came in with a game plan and they stuck with it," said Dolan. "If not for the tenacious play of Chuck Glen, Chris Stiles, and George (Stewart, tight end coach for the Notre Dame foot­ball team), today's outcome might have been quite differ­
ent." Stewart, filling in for Notre Dame head football coach Lou 
see Holtz, page 15 

Wednesday, Aprill, 1987-page 20 

The Esophagus Contrictors attempt their "Arkansas Wishbone" play against Verlder Construction in the Hall of Fame opener to 

Spring reshuffling gives secondary promising outlook for next fall 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Head Coach Lou Holtz strolled off the practice fields and into the ACC a full 15 minutes earlier. The rest of the team had run to the showers about five minutes after him. 
All but the secondary. 
Spring Football '87 
The defensive backs were still out on the field for a little extra work on some of their formations after Monday's spring football workout. And they didn't seem to mind. 
"We're just looking to get better in all areas," said second-year Irish secondary coach Terry Forbes. "If petition in every position,'' Forbes said. "Every spot is wide open as of now, and we're judging by performance as to who will be playing -not by last year's playing time, number of years played or anything else. 

"We will go out of the spring with a first unit, but you never know what can happen between now and then. There are sure some real battles going on, and that makes everyone work that much harder." 
Another motivating factor in the hard work to this point has been the learning of new posi­tions on the part of players who have been juggled at different slots in the backfield. 
Heading the list of musical~ position players is sophomore Corny Southall. Southall was recruited as a tailback under_ former Head Coach Gerry Faust, moved to strong safety last year where he received 
see SOUTHALL, page 16 

staying out there a little longer is what it takes, then we're going to do that. 
"I'm pleased with the way the young guys have learned and are progressing. Everyone seems to be working hard and I sense a very positive attitude on the field.'' 
Forbes was handed a fresh 
deck of cards this spring, and just recently has completed shuffling it. The final deal prob­ably will not come until just prior to the annual spring Blue­Gold game, slated for Satur­day, April 25. That is when Forbes aims to have a number­one team decided upon. 
"There's a good deal of com­



Indiana's Knight put on a new face for the Final Four 
The Indiana Hoosiers sit atop the college basket­ball world. As a result of Monday night's one-point victory over Syracuse, the Hoosiers hold bragging rights until next year's championship game, however painful that may be for everyone else. 
But the title game, and the semifinal game for that matter, featured a different look from the In­diana side from what most basketball fans are ac­customed to. The team won in its usual disciplined, though more up-tempo than normal, manner. The team was familiar to those in years past, even though the players constantly change. 
While it seemed to be the same old Hoosiers on the court, there was a big difference off the court. Bob Knight, the maniac with the uncontrollable temper, the flinger of furniture, the head of the referees' Most Feared list and the perfectionist-to­a-fault head coach of Indiana University's basket­ball team was not this man we had come to know and hate at all. He was downright polite. 
In the words of David Letterman, "Hard to believe, isn't it?" 
This must be some hoax. This calm coach, THE Bob Knight, is the same guy who threw a chair across the floor not so long ago against Purdue. Do quiet, polite coaches do that? He also is the same guy who set United States-Pan American relations back a few years with his antics in "friendly com­petition." This is the wildman featured in the book, "A Season On the Brink," by John Feinstein. This is the same coach whose press conference following a win over Northwestern this season sounded like Morse Code, with as many beeps as words. It just can't be HIM. 
But alas, the evidence is piling up. After all, Knight's team won the national championship. A look back will uncover two previous national titles 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

under his direction. His teams are tough all right. 
And after all, Knight has not been a total saint this year. He has consistently voiced his opposition to the three-point shot, and not too subtly. This, although he coached one of the nation's biggest benefactors of the rule, Steve Alford. 
He has been less-than-hospitable to Feinstein, be­cause he felt the novel focused too much on Knight instead of the team, and kept too much of his lan­guage in its original form. 
He has constantly jabbed at sports writers, knock­ing their qualifications on a regular basis. Of course, Knight himself stooped enough to write a column during the tournament. 
Knight was even a bit rude earlier in this year's tournament. He had few kind words for the officials and opposing players in Indiana game against Auburn. 
His biggest tirade, however, came in the Midwest Regional final against LSU. He received a technical when he stormed on the court, but he was not through yet. He complained to the NCAA Tourna­ment Committee members on press row and slammed the . telephone stationed directly in front of Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan . Despite his claims, it is doubtful he was com­plimenting Corrigan on the job Lou Holtz has done with the Irish football team. 
But then in New Orleans, Knight was quite dif­ferent. He was subdued on the bench, saving both players and officials from his wrath. This quiet ver­sion of college basketball's answer to John McEnroe drew nearly as much attention through his silence as he did through his feverish arguments. It was scary. 
But now questions remain. When he was a beast, everyone called him just that, and quite plainly. Is he trying to change ~hat image? Was the change from plaid jacket to red sweater just the beginning of his changes? 
see .KNIGHT, page 13 

' j ' I 

Free fake ID -page 2 

By MARK PANKOWSKI to drive around the country in "We won't let it happen," for a 152-page "Welcome Back Responding to reporters' and MIKE NAUGHTONSKI an recreational vehicle, like shouted Mallory and his team­Teddy'' issue. questions, Hamburger dis­Staff Headhunters some cheap Pizza Hut com­mates, repeating the words stu­The Absurder also advised cussed his rationale for refus­
mercial, did you?'' Hamburger dents chanted during the its readers to disregard the ing to retire. 
Vowing 35 more years of rule, told reporters. alcohol-policy protests three "Hamburger Years" issue it "I spent 35 years here trying University President Father "To make matters worse, we years ago. published one week earlier. to get this place some respec­Teddy Hamburger announced would have looked like Ed But like the students' chants, "That issue is worthless," an tability," he said. "Why the 
' \.. today that he will not retire at Bartles and Frank Jaymes on their words fell on deaf ears. Absurder staff member com­hell would I turn it over to a the end of the year. their trek to New York." Three hours later, several mented. guy named 'Spunk?' 
Although the announcement Notre Dame Security officers Hamburger's announce-"Besides, I wanted to stay for shocked the Notre Dame com­When former President-elect arrived and escorted Mallory ment, which lasted four hours another 35 years to make up for munity, Hamburger hinted Father 'Spunk' Mallory and his cohorts away (see Se­and covered issues ranging some big mistakes, like admit­that he never actually planned learned of the announcement, curity Beat for details). from civil rights to nuclear dis­ting women to Notre Dame, al­to leave. he and his Bookstore basket­Meanwhile, The Absurder armament, came during an im­lowing ROTC on campus and 
"You didn't really think Ned ball team No. 315 stormed the reacted to Hamburger's an­promptu press conference held permitting the publication of .... (Father Joys) and I were going Administration Building. nouncement by releasing plans at the Grotto. The Absurder.'' 
HPC debates plethora of
Druids and useless issues once again
clowns are 

By REGIS COCCIA "(Student Body Vicemurdered Presider-elect) Lorry (Binkie) 
Apathetic News Editor 
and I both feel the studentsBy MARK MCLAUGHLIN Plans for a Notre Dame-Saint should let the administration
Observer Groupie 

Mary's keg party (with real know how they feel,'' Cookie brewski) and a Paint-the­said. "We want the hall presi­
The bodies of four Druids, Dome Green Contest were just dents to let the students knowmembers of the Notre Dame two of the many topics dis­that we stand behind them,'' he Druid Society, were found cussed at Tuesday night's Hall said. "That's why Lorry and Ihanging from the four sections Presidents' Council meeting. are going to stay in the back­of the War Memorial Fountain HPC Co-Chairdude Joaney K. ground on this."

toady. 

Hill said the keg party would Cookie said interested stu­According to the Archdruid, be held only if it meets suffici­dents can sign up for the event 
this was not part of the annual ent opposition in the adminis­in the Student Inactivities Of­Spring Equinox ceremonies at tration. "I think we really fice on the 4th floor of LaFor­the fountain. The fountain is should go for it," K. Hill said. tunate Student Center. 

reputed to have some "If Oldrick says no I think we

resemblance to Stonehenge, a In other business, the council 
should consider having it in his 
monument in England. discussed not discussing any
office. After all," said K. Hill,
In a related incident, two stu­more insignificant topics con­
"we're in charge here. We're
dents dressed in clown cos­cerning student life at Notre
the voice of this campus." Hall 
tumes may have been the vic­Dame.
presidents voted unanimously
tims of foul play. They were 

in favor of the party. Before adjourning the
found lying in North Dining Student Body Presider-elect meeting, K. Hi11 and HPC Co­Hall last night, apparently the Pat Cookie spoke to the council Chairdude She'll, uh 0. Conhervictims of poison. 

on inaugurating a Paint-the­asked hall presidents whether 
see DEATHS, page 3 Holy Cow Dome Green Contest to com­they would prefer to use gas or memorate thebe presidency of electric barbecues for the an­University President-elect Fa­nual HPC cookout to be held ther Edward "Spunk" Mallory. next Tuesday. "We think this would be a very A general consensus indi­special way for the students to cated that hall presidents felt tell Father Mallory how much grilled by the question and 
South Bend Police. The officers formed officers and are being we appreciate his service to the voted instead to impeach thisMIKE NAUGHTON then proceeded to enter the held in evidence, according to University," Cookie said. Absurder reporter.
Staff Muckraker 

building. MawI. 
In what is already being "This was one of our most Father William Bochump, called "The Raid of the Cen­ambitious undercover opera­while being escorted away by tury," South Bend Police, tions due to the involvement of mounted police, said, "We aided by undercover officers, the necessitated overcoming of were just selling cups." conducted a raid on the annual several unprecedented and An alleged junior reported Junior Parent's Weekend Pres­uniquely unusual logistical dif­that his alleged mother had al­ident's Dinner. ficulties due to gender prediter­legedly been mauled by anal­
More than 1,500 students minants in our department," leged police attack dog. were cited for underage drink­said Mawl. Mawl denied the allegations. ing, according to police Though Mawl's statement He said the woman assaulted records. Thirty administrators was indecipherable, sources the dog's officer first. "Poor and student government offi­did reveal that one of the offi­Cujo was just sticking up for cers were arrested on charges cers involved was dressed in me," said the officer. of contributing to the delin­women's clothes. Mawl declined further com­quency of a minor. "All of our plainclothes offi­ment until office hours Monday 
Approximately 200 officers cers are men," Mawl said. "It morning.
from the Indiana State Police, was very difficult to find one of Also arrested on charges of 
excise police and South Bend them to portray a middle-aged contributing to the delinquency 
police surrounded the ACC at mother, Mawl said. of a minor, resisting arrest, 
10 p.m., according to footage I When the officers entered the and failure to produce identifi­
saw on Channel 28. building they observed a "sig­cation was University Presi­
Five plainclothes officers en­nificant factor of citizens of a dent Father Theodore Res­
tered the establishment di::;­minor persuasion consuming burgh.
guised as a mother, a father alcoholic beverages despite Mawl added, "I really en­
and a typical Notre Dame their inadequate age factor," joyed breaking our old record 
junior and his parents, said according to Mawl. 
for volume of arrests. We plan ~~~!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 
i Sergeant Claude Mawl, public Wine bottles were seized on stopping by at a football disinformation officer of the from the dinner tables by uni-game next fall." 
'IJ,liUI,lJll! lli.Wll Ul\; ·s.t,ltm,l.l .lllU • . .IU Jli.Hllllpq.t.lJtl.) .HIJ .IOJ .\,.l,US liO!J.).)S S!lll IMliS!IliiHI SH.ll .M.\.I,}Sfl() .HIJ, 'S}fiO.I •,(ISHH!·•·•S . . 
I 
I 
I 
u 


An hour too late
The Absurder 

The Absurder Notre Dame office accepts Petrifieds 24 hours a day because we like money. Rates are one dollar per 10 characters per day or $50 an hour, depending on what you're up here for. Deadline for next day's Petrifieds is 3 a.m... If you don't pay, we will sling more mud at you than we usually do, probably enough to get you
Petrifieds expelled. Good luck finding our Saint Mary's office -we don't know where it is either. 
FOUND: The Knute Rockne bust. Wasn't Wanted:one prostiMe to give ride. Will The DRUIDS rule the known universe.
Feb. 23, 1987

that lost a couple of years ago? Just pay the usual. Call 9264. Soon they will rule Notre Dame. Watch
Subject -DePaul:I NOTICES I PERSONALSthought I'd let you know I found lt. for "Spunk" Mallory to be fired suddenly 

This game will be a classic In the Notre 
and a DRUID to be named University
Dame tradition. 

Has anyone seen my bookbag? I left it President.
Does anyone read these? March 30, 1987
LOST: Gold watch. If found, call Crystal 4 bedroom house close to campus.
in South Dining Hall with all the other Stonehenge will become the modem­
Subject-Indiana:

at 9876. Time's running outl ................ Reasonable. Call (201) 560-4107 ........
ones. If it's not returned real soon I will day White House ...
EKpert typo service. It's funny, but back In January, I told detonate a nuclear bomb in New York
Call Mrs. Duper. Bobby I thought he had the kind of team 278-9012 that could win It all.
City and kill millions ............................. . The DRUIDS will die violent deaths. Slow Quoting Digger: torture if there's time .......................... .. 
The evidence is in: 

Feb. 15, 1987
TICKETS 
DIGGER IS GODI 
Mlke154

Subject -Duke: Just for old times sake ... 
I LOST/FOUND 11.___w_A_N_Te_o____. 
I told Frederick all week that he was 
I couldn't resist, and we needed to fill

going to be the hero of this game. 
Sports Department guys get chicKs. 

LOST: My virginity. Somewhere in Wanted: A name for our Bookstore t6am. Do you have any football GA's for the Feb. 1, 1987 space. Alii can say is this is WONKY. Alumni. Or Dillon. Or Sorin. If found Ours was taken away. Call1111 and ask Miami game neKI year. You can have my Subject -North Carolina: ···········4···················································· Love, please call 9211. for team 438. wife and kids. Or my wife can have your Julie Bradley, you're an April Fool. Your February, March and April Fool
We practiced cutting down the nets In 
kids. Call (201)-936-1212 ................... .. 
practice. 
Accentric 


Jockey Briefs 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced that it will no longer plan any more ridicul~us and t?tally pointless activities ever again. For more mformabon stop by the NVA office or contact Sally Demagougeski at 239-6100. 
-The Absurder 

The N.Y. Yankees fired manager Lou Piniella yesterday and hired Billy Martin for the fifth time. ­
Dissociated Press 

The An Tostal J,!reased pig catching and ice cream eating contest will be held Saturday in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall. Fans of this extravaganza will be compensated for attending. -The Absurder 
WVFI-AM 64 airs "Speaking to Ourselves About Sports" tonight at 10. To~ight's .to~ic will .be, "Trivia Night--does anyone really listen to 1t? Phone m your ques­tions to 239-6400. -The Absurder 
In USFL action the Denver-Phoenix-Birmingham Admirals have moved to South Bend and merged with the Baltimore-Cleveland Sackers to become the South Bend Excise Police. Home games will be played at the newly­constructed baseball stadium. -Dissociated Press 
The N.Y. Yankees fired manager Billy Martin today and owner George Steinbrenner named himsel~ as coach, saying, "I always thought I was the best chmce, anyway, and I sure as hell know more about baseball than Billy." -Dissociated Press 

University President Father Teddy Hamburger ponders the announcement of his retirement in a closed-doors meeting in LaFortune. Ham­burger was overheard as saying "Retirement? 
dust, a clue. According to Ab­responsible for all those Circus Deaths surder Head Mudslinger Kevin Lunch ads that keep popping Bleecher, "both these groups up.
continuedfrom page 1 
appeared in our newspaper Rumors that the Center for Director of Food Servers Bill over the past week." Social Concerns had been Hiccup had no comment. The Druids have placed firebombed could not be 
The Absurder, in a search of Petrifieds for the past three checked before we drove down last week's Petrifieds section, years running, and it has been to the printer, but we thought has uncovered, besides lots of rumored that the clowns were we'd tell you anyway. 
Random mashers reform 
all I want to do is press my face against any boy who comes along. It's kind ofembarrassing, but I've kissed people who I don't even know." 
'Jennifer' echoes carrie's words, "I just don't understand it. I have a couple of drinks and all I want to do Is press my face against any boy who comes along. It's kind of embarassing. but I've kissed people who I don't even like." 
'Sarah,' who was once like Jen­nifer and Carrie, has reformed her ways and now restricts her­self to an occasional binge. She 
was surprised to discover that with help, she could control her mashing habits. "I was surprised to discover that I could control my mashing habits," she said, "I real~ think that ~SHERS has helped me get my life back in 
order. In the past I used to have a couple of drinks and all I wanted to do was press my face against anything that came along. It's kind of embarassing but I've kissed people who I don't even remember." 
Even though MASHERS is open to members of either sex, its membership is composed mainly of women. When asked to explain this disparity, the sole male member 'Steve' com­mented, "I think most guys don't consider mashing a real prob­lem. As a matter of fact, neither 
dol.l'mju~trying~gclplc~d
up." 
STATE OF INEBRIATION LICENSE 
ISSUED BY THE DEPT. OF PUBUC DRUNKENNESS 

~~~~~...-.~••~.....,.~••_....,.,..........,.JIIIIII"1::'1'1•• 
Mike Norton features slanderer 
Ifyou walk across the quad on any Sunday at night, you might hear the following. "My name is Carrie R. and I'm a masher." These words are the beginning ofa testament of personal failure and redemption which have be­come synonymous with a small group of Notre Dame students who belong to a mutual support group called MASHERS (Mutually Aligned Sisters Enervated of Ran­dom Sex) 

Though most Notre Dame stu­dents engage In an occasional public display of affection (PDA), a small percentage of men and women at Notre Dame find the urge to "mash, grovel, suck-face, maul, swap-spit, neck. tongue wrestle, ancVor make out," a curse wh!ch they can neither con­trol nor explain. 
"I just don't understand it," said 'Carrie' (not her real name), "I have a couple of drinks and 
The Absurder Once upon a time 
Bikini Briefs ··; 
University President Father Teddy Hamburger has announced the construction of Ripley's Believe It Or Not Hall, to house "dangerous types who tarnish the image of this great place." The dorm will house members of the Dancin' Irish, former RASTAheads, and the editorial board of The Scholastic. "Now instead of suspending those ornery radicals one by one," said Hamburger, "we can nuke 'em in one fell swoop." -The Absurder 
Of No Interest Whatsoever 
Typesetting problems that once plagued The Absurder are now a thing of the past. One staff member who was particularly distressed by the earlier situation was Bill the Cat. Asked to comment on how things are much better now, Bill said, ''Ack! plphthh! BARF!" Mem­bers of the community have also marveled on The Absur­der's ex3cellernt c**9py/ er3£ gt dymnn xzcrhelp plotz. ­
The Abzurder 
Weathered 
Wear your rubbers today, just like your mother used to tell you when it was raining. It will be warm and wet today, with a high of 69 and light variable winds. Turning colder tonight with lows below freezing. Cloudy for the rest of the year. -Assimilated Mess 


You really think anyone would take responsibiity for 
this mess? 
Coffee Maker Mudslinger......................
.. Assistant Mudslinge,........ Day TV Watcher ............ . Desk Goddess ................. 
Fall Guy Huddle Run Man .......... .. Head Driver........... . . 
Let's·be practical and 'fix' all our moral dilemmas 
My, the Roaming Catholic Church seems to be having problems lately. All those Catholics using birth control devices that aren't approved by His Holeyness Pop Johnnie II. Some of them are even doing strange things with test tubes and babies, if they aren't killing them off with vacuums or coat hangers. And now AIDS is rumored to be hitting the priesthood. 
Solution: Castration. 
It really makes sense, from the Roaming Catholic viewpoint. The castration option will pretty much eliminate sex. No more people doing naughty things in bed. No more sodomy. No more breaking the seventh commandment. There may be a subsequent problem with les­bianism, but we'll cross that bridge when we come to it. 
Abortion, the fighting front of the Church bat­tle these days, will also cease to exist. Since abortion is the result of unplanned conception, and unplanned conception is generally the result of unplanned sex, it logically follows that if we do away with sex, we do away with abor­tion. And, since castration would eliminate the tools needed for sexual intercourse, then obvi­ously it would do away with abortions as well. Amazing how powerful logic is, isn't it? 
Mandatory castration would also put all those nasty contraceptive companies out of business. No more embarrassing advertisements offend­ing decent families throughout the world. 
The declining trend in the numbers of men entering the priesthood will be reversed, too. Once we put a stop to the illicit and morally corrupt entertainments of the outside world, the joys of serving God might seem a bit more attractive to young men. 
The horrid practice of prostitution would be ended as well. No sex, no prositution. It's that simple. 
Male homosexuality would be stopped dead in its tracks. Now the Church wouldn't have to worry about these misguided souls going to Hell. It could quit wasting time denouncing them to the skies as satanic and warped. 
Viewpointless 
PTL plague hits campus 
Tammy Cooker, wife of PTL Presi­from the ashes and be able to trust our dent Jim Cooker, recently announced leaders. she had an affair with President-elect The importance of these revelations Fr. Spunk Mallory, when an innocent is overwhelming. Who can turn their post-healing session luncheon turned heads at the plight of Jim and Tammy into a steamy, ~orrid love rampage. The Cooker and not call that news? Cer­question that is now pervading the na­tainly not out-going Student Body Pres­tion is what is happening to our ident Ike Slitek who was recently seen leaders? Okay, we may lose a Jim with movie star Lovely Lindalace. Cooker or a Spunk Mallory, but God We are all searching for answers. Our forbid if we lose any real leaders of our leaders have betrayed us by giving into university. the desires of the flesh. By God, what 
has the PTL club wrought upon ourRoderick Brian civilization? 
PTL update 

Now, the question is who can lead us from this deep dark forest which we have entered. It must be someone with sound judgment, a solid core of respect 
This problem has not been limited to and be able to distinguish right from just Spunk Mallory. Other members of wrong, savory from unsavory. the administration and even student leaders have been caught in scandalous The decision should have been made incidents. Does the story of Jack long ago for we were all wearing Oldrick and Maureen McFarten ring a blinders. Obviously our choice must be bell? And what about the outrageous Mr. Butcher Cassidy. His past record details of the love triangle between shows a clear sense of timing and for­Irish Items writer Ricky Lee Rickrack titude in matters of sexuality and sug­his two main squeezes Vanna Blanca gestiveness. and Sister Clean Lense? 
When the bounds of morality have 
The seeds of immorality have been been crossed, who has been there to implanted everywhere from the admin­rescue us innocent students of Notre istration to the students and even into Dame? Who better to ward off the ad­the law enforcement officials (recall vances of such voluptuous women as South Bend Prosecutor Michael Farce Tammy Cooker than a man who and his racy romance with his former believes publishing a picture of an grade school teacher Ima embrace requires gestapo tactics from Selfrighteous). What is needed is for a a normally inactive board. leader to emerge, one free of the plague that Jim Cooker has recently placed Roderick Brian is a former member of upon us. Only by example can we rise the PTL organization. 
P.O. Box Quack 
Now, it seems that Digger has
Police commended for 
jumped on the Indiana Hoosiers' band­wagon. After Indiana shocked
brutality at JPW raid 
U.N.L.V. Phlops began talking about Dear Editor: how the incomparable Indiana coach 
As a concerned parent of a member Bobby Day and he were "brothers." of the junior class, I would like t.o thank Sure, Digger, you'll jump on any band­the Indiana Excise Police for raiding wagon that will enable you to get your the JPW dinner. name in print. Heck, you even told 
I could not believe that parents were Coach Day that his team would win the drinking in front of their children. What championship before the season, didn't kind of example are they setting for you? their children on an alcohol-free I think what we have is a modern day campus? The fact that some parents prophet here. But, I'd like Coach Phlops and children were actually sharing to use his prophetic skills to recruit drinks and getting smashed together is some players and make some game revolting to me. plans that can finally bring us to the 
The tactics used by the police force Final Four for a change. were brutal, but not brutal enough. The Rev. Joyce Eddie parents of these students will continue Administration Building to misbehave until someone sets them straight. Maybe, sending all of them to resident South Bend babysitter Michael 
Quip of the day 
Farce would do them some good. 
Abstinent Domer IV Concerned Parent 
"A wet campus is a Skills could benefit 
happy campus." prophetic hoop coach 
Harold B. Augustine 
I am sick and tired of hearing Irish 
Concerned Parent 
coach Digger Phlops talk about his 
1984

predictions. First, it ~as the Nort.h Carolina game when Digger, after ?Is team's great victory, started rambling about how he had predicted that his sel­dom used guard Fred Rick would win the game with a last minute shot. Even the King of tall tales, basketball an­This space brought to you nouncer Mac Guire, thought that by the "white space cushions Phlops was telling another fib. the reader" club 

No sperm means no more artificial insemi­nation. No more doing weird Satanic things like creating. human life and giving parents who can't have kids a chance to have their own. 
Now there won't be any more jokes about Catholic families having twelve kids, will there? 
Yes, it appears that castration would be the perfect solution to all the problems the Roaming Catholics seem to have with the imperfect world in which we live. And once we do it, there's no chance of weaker individuals backsliding and missing out on all the Church has to offer them. 
Since the Church makes a big thing of "living by example," why don't we start with His Holeyness and work our way down to us less pious folk? 
------------------~--­
Spurts 
About 5: 30 this morning 
Phlops gives up post, opens clothes outlets 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Athletic Director's Son 
In a blatant attempt to turn a fast buck, Notre Dame bas­ketball coach Digger Phlops resigned his job and opened a jeans store. 
According to Phlops, the high cost of dry cleaning was a major factor in his decision. 
"If you look at the tapes of my old Fordham team," barked Phlops, "all I did was wear jeans. Trying to stay in the latest fashion was very, very difficult, especially when I kept tearing all my $500 jack­ets. Trying to keep them clean was also a negative. 
"From that standpoint, opening a jeans store has al­ways been a dream of mine. This is my moment. I'm not done yet, baby." 
the clothing business. Pictured above is one of 
But in a letter stolen by the Absurder from the desk of Notre Dame Assistant Sports
Farce returns, coaches field hockey 
Disinformation Director Jim 
By PETE GEGEN Scandal Monger  tion that coaching field hockey "can't be much harder than making the transition from  The move leaves Head Coach Jill Linenfelt without a job. While sharply criticizing  'Spooked' Davies, Phlops cited other reasons for his less than earth-shattering decision. "I'm sick of playing by the  The Absurder 1 lireg K.ohster Phlops models the latest in fas­hion and smell like fish that have  
The Absurder has learned that former Irish football coach Gerry Farce will use the es­cape clause in his contract with the University of Akron to return to Notre Dame.  high school to college coach­ing." Farce exercised an option in his contract which allows him to leave Akron at any time to take on a coaching job at Notre  Farce's knowledge of the sport, she did admit that this situation has resulted in more coverage of the team in The Absurder than the paper managed to give the team the entire fall season.  rules," said Phlops. "I want to take junior-college transfers and redshirt," the letter read. "Everyone else is cheating out there, so from that standpoint, why shouldn't I?"  been left in the sun too long. "The fish tie has been very much a positive for us this year," said Phlops. "From that standpoint, I should make a bundle."  
According to sources within the Notre Dame Athletic De­partment, Farce will assume immediately the duties as head coach of the field hockey team. Farce would not comment on the situation, but he did men- Dame. Farce leaves behind a foot­ball program several hundred thousand dollars over budget as a result of his efforts to make Akron a national football power.  Looking ahead,· the field hockey schedule for next season opens with a night home-opener against Mic­higan, followed by games vs. Purdue, at Michigan State, vs. Miami (Fla.), vs. Arizona and at Oregon.  Phlops' store, Digger's New Jeans, will also carry large numbers of the celebrated Notre Dame fashion accessory, the fish tie. The ties, which are blantly polyester, are the latest superstitious rage in the ath­letic department. They look  Speculation on Phlops' re­placement centered on Polish women's basketball coach Merry DiStAnlsLaO. "I'd really like a shot at the job," cried DiStAnisLaO. "We always get together to 'X and 0.' It would be fun."  
MeLine reveals drug scandal  
By GARY MeLINE Ex-Basketball Star  -Steve Sirloin went an entire game without overthrowing a  
receiver.  
As I was standing behind Dig­ -Tight  end  William  Joll  
ger Phlops  after  my college  caught a touchdown pass in the  
basketball team's stunning up­ waning  seconds  of  a  tight  
set of North Carolina, thinking  game.  
to myself, "You know, this guy  -The coach's  son  made  a  
has a bigger tear in the back  clutch  block  on  a  kickoff  
of his jacket than the average  return, springing all-America  
man."  candidate Tim Frown for an  
Actually, I was tripped out  easy touchdown.  
on drugs. I had been snorting  -Placekicker  John  Corny  
some  cocaine  in  the  locker­ booted a 40-yard field goal to  
room before the game began, and I was high as a kite by tip­ win two games early in the season. He won another close  ~..·.·...  


Ray Charles 
his outlets, Digger's New Jeans, which just opened in Goshen last week. 


off time. one in the last game of the 
I heard that The Absurder season, but I wasn't wired for was looking for an interesting that one! story and I thought the world needed to know the truth about So you see, drugs aren't the what drugs can do to people. answer. Writing stories for big­For example, while doing time publications is the an­drugs during football season, I swer. had some strange hallucina­Now where do I pick up my 


tions: $40,000? 
Hey, I'm back with trivial cliches 
Hello again, everybody! 
Upchuck Freeby 
Irish Hems 


Stevie Wonder Kansas City Royals' first baseman and former of Notre Dame and signed on with the Royals Irish head baseball coach Larry Gallon stands last week saying, "I'm sick of trying to beat with teammate Ron Johnson during infield Indiana.'' Inset: Gallon in his former head practice yesterday. Gallon resigned as coach coach role. 



