SMC endorsement -page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 93 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student's Saint Mary's trial slated candidates for today address issues 
By MARK PANKOWSKI at debate 
News Editor 
B:v PEGGY PROSSER The trial of the Notre Dame 
Staff Reporterstudent charged in connection The candidates for Saintwith the traffic death of a South Mary's student body officesBend man is slated for today, faced off in a debate last night but it is likely to be res­at Haggar College Center.
cheduled. 
Three tickets fielded questions Because two other trials are from a panel of Observerscheduled before it, Mindy editors.
Mcintire of the St. Joseph The three tickets, each con­County Prosecutor's Office sisting of three candidates for said it is "unlikely" the stu­student body president, vicedent's case will be heard today. 
president for student affairs"We seem to think it may not and vice-president for aca­go," Mcintire said. 
demic affairs, are: Sarah"It's on the third setting," Cook, Janel Hamann and Jillshe added. "Usually one (of the Winterhalter; Eileen Het­trials) will bump it." 
terich, Smith Hashagen andThe -20-year-old student has Julie Parrish; and Ann Rucker,pleaded innocent to charges of Ann Reilly and Ann Eckhoff.
reckless homicide and involun­The debate opened with atary manslaughter stemming question on ''the ideal socialfrom the Nov. 15 accident. 
climate for an educational
The case, which will be heard in St. Joseph County Superior facility." Cook responded by Court, involves the death of saying, "the ideal social 
Buddy D. Moore, 52, of 1314 climate would be a climate that Goodland Ave. addresses all aspects of student 
Moore died of severe head in­life, culturally, spiritually, in­juries one day after being tellectually and physically. I struck by a car driven by the think it should be a climate that student, police records show. promotes responsible actions, 
The reckless homicide as a citizen and a student. It 
The Observer/Joann Whitfield 
charge, a Class C felony, should be a climate that allows carries a maximum penalty of sophomore Allyson Salzman enjoy a chat over eight years in prison and a a malt. see DEBATE, page 4 $10,000 fine. The minimum punishment is three years in prison. 
The involuntary 


Homosexuals present requests at meeting
manslaughter charge, a Class reason we to community wishes to eliminate
D felony, is punishable by up By CHRIS JULKA "The came they would like to have met, 
speak is that there are a lot of the speakers said. "hostility, prejudice and in­to four years in prison and a Copy Editor 
$10,000 fine. The minimum misunderstandings about First, homosexuals should be tolerance toward gay people," penalty is a one-year prison In their last meeting before homosexuals on campus in gen­able to interact "honestly" they said. the election, Student Senate eral and the intentions of our with other people. There should 
term. 
In an unrelated case, Mcln-. members heard representa­group," the graduate student be "no need to pretend to be Fourth, campus 
tives of campus homosexuals said. someone you're not," they homosexuals seek the ability to tire said a hearing date for the 
Notre Dame student charged in and debated whether the Uni­"One of the students' major said. organize in order to "address connection with the traffic versity alcohol policy should be gripes is that social life at the Second, gays and lesbians on any wrongs that are present death of Michael Cogswell blamed for an increase in the University is so bad," said the campus should be allowed to with regard to homosexuals." probably will be set in about number and size of off-campus junior, "but at least they hold social activities. "This two weeks. parties. (heterosexuals) have some so­doesn't mean bar-like activi­"Gays and lesbians should 
The 21-year-old student is The meeting at the Alumni cial opportunities." Unlike the ties," said the graduate. "We exist like any other group on facing the Class A mis­Senior Club began with a Notre rest of the student population, just want an opportunity to campus that has something in demeanor charge of driving Dame graduate student and a gay students on campus are not meet other gays on campus." common, just like a sports while intoxicated. The charge junior speaking on behalf of the even encouraged to have social Third, the gay community at club," said the graduate stu­carries a maximum sentence Notre Dame gay community. interactions, he said. the University wants to change dent. of one year in prison and a Both did not want to be identi­The gay community on "the environment" of the $5,000 fine. fied. campus has four specific needs campus. Specifically, the gay see SENATE, page 3 
Irish MP discusses problems of violence, religion in Ireland 
By CATHY STACY spoke on the "Search for Peace lence and killing only drive Hume explained that al­1969, when he was elected an and CINDY RAUCKHORST and Justice in Ireland" at the people further and further though Protestants represent a independent to Northern Copy Editors Notre Dame Law School. apart," the Catholic native of majority in Northern Ireland, Ireland's parliament. 
"There aren't any instant Derry, Northern Ireland said. they have used violence and en­In 1970, he and six other non­
Irish statesman and non­answers. We have to start As an Irishman, Hume said forced separation to maintain Unionist members of the parli­violence advocate John Hume where we are, a divided nation, the brick wall that has been their legislative control. ament formed the SDLP, now said yesterday that Catholics and work out a healing built in Belfast to separate Cat­Two thousand people have the majority party of Catholics and Protestants in Ireland process," said Hume, who has holics and Protestants is an in­been killed, and more than in Northern Ireland, which must accept each other's diver­pursued Irish reconciliation dictment of everyone in 20,000 maimed because of vio­advocates a peaceful unifica­sity if the two groups are to throughout his political career. Ireland, including both church lence in the last decade, Hume tion of Ireland under one dem­progress toward unity. Hume expressed his adver­and political leaders. said. The 44 percent unemploy­ocratic government. 
Hume, a member of the sity to the widespread violence "It's also a challenge be­ment rate among young people "We (in the United States) British and European Parlia­which he said has been mis­cause it clarifies the message," contributes to the country's take the fundamentals and es­ments and leader of Northern taken by many young people as Hilme said. "That message is serious economic crisis, he sence of democracy for Ireland's Social Democratic "traditional Irish patriotism." simple: past attitudes built said. 
see IRELAND, page 4 

and Labour Party (SDLP), "In a divided society, vio-that wall." Hume entered politics in 

The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 2 
In Brief 
Although Charles Manson has spent the last 18 years in California's San Quentin Prison for the brutal Tate-LaBianca murders, he is anything but remorseful. "I've done nothing I'm ashamed of," Manson, 52, told Life magazine. "Nothing I couldn't face God with. I wouldn't kill a bug. (But) I'd probably kill all of them if I could." 
Britain's Prince Charles and Lady Diana arrived Monday en route to a winter vacation in the Swiss Alps. Prince Charles flew into Zurich international airport from Toulouse, France, where the two attended the un­veiling of the latest jetliner by Airbus Industrie on Satur­day. 
Lemon owners unite!Be as obnoxious as necessary if you've been stuck with a bad car -just don't shoot it or beat it to death, advises the president of the American Lemon Club. Pat Trimble served lemonade, lemon drops and lemon cookies this August and attracted enough in­terested people to form the club. "Put lemons in your car. Hang signs on your car saying where you bought your lemon.... Don't let them tell you --like the dealer did to me -that it's all in your head." 
Of Interest 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival will sponsor a lecture by historian and educator Mary Frances Berry tonight at 7 p.m.in the Library Audtorium. This is the first in a series of six lectures in the Black Cultural Arts Fes­tival. -The Observer 
"The Story Of Entrepreneurship" is the subject of a lecture by Raymond D. Meyo, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Texlon Corporation, today at 4 p.m. on the Hayes-Healey Auditorium.This lecture is a part of The Twenty-Ninth Annual Finance Forum. ­
The Observer 
"That's Entertainment" presents Bob Corrigan, "The Piano Man," tonight at 7 at the Chameleon Room in Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's.Free pizza and drinks provided by Saint Mary's Student Government. ­
The Observer 
Saint Mary's Student Government will hold elections Wednesday from 7 a.m.-6 p.m. in the Haggar College Cen­ter lobby. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Faith Series" continues tonight from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel with "The Catholic Experience and Our Images of God" presented by Dr. Catherine LaCugna.-The Observer 
"Liberty And Justice For All:Freedom In South Africa" will be presented tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Li­brary Auditorium by Dr. Mary Frances Berry. -The Ob­server 
Weather 
Mother Nature has chosen to 
participate in today's elections by en­dorsing a partly cloudy candidate who promises to uphold the virtues of South Bend weather. Included in her platform are increasing cold, highs from 20 to 25, and a 20 percent chance of snow. A recent poll showed sunny skies tagging behind, 

but look for a possible triumph in the run-off. -Associated Press 


Design Editor ................. Alice Kroeger Design Assistant .............. Mike Mojica Layout Staff............... ... Matt ZynieWICZ Typesetter ............................ Jose Novas .................................. Becky Gunderman Newa Editor .................. Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ....................... Cathy Stacy Sports Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler 
Accent Copy Editor ............ Tom Beatty Accent Layout............ .. .. .. .. . Carey Geis Buainess Page Editor .............. Jim Riley Buainess Layout.. .............. Heidi Traxler Typist .. .. .. ... .. .. .... .. .. .. ... .. .. ... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .................. Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design .......................... Joan Wrappe ............................... Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield 
Tile Oblerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblerver is a member of Tile Aaodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Memories of childhood bring back thoughts about a lost friend 
Whenever a helicopter flew over our neigh­borhood, my best friend Tammi and I had to run to our yards and stay there until the sky was clear. We would line our toes up as close as possible to the curb and shout to each other across the street that separated us. Tammi's older brother Greg would pace nearby with a long pole in his hands, ready to tap our feet if we stepped out of bounds. He told us that the president flew around the country in a helicop­ter, making sure that little girls were in their own yards. And at eight, we believed him im­plicitly. ' 
Our mothers were best friends, and they used to laugh at the wild things Greg could make us believe. Once he told us a salesman in suit and tie, trudging door to door on a steamy July day, was selling watermelon slices out of his black metal samples case. Why did we believe that a man in suit and tie would go door to door in 90-degree weather, selling slices of watermelon out of an airtight black metal box? 
Such a question would be easy to understand if you had grown up across the street from someone as remarkable as Greg. His capacity to imagine and invent was amazing; his power over our child-minds was complete. He would act out roles for us --usually something he'd seen in a TV miniseries --switching with frightening intensity and suddeness from a caring doctor helping Jews in the "The Holocaust" to a brutal slave-trader from "Roots." He kept changing, always creating. 
I cannot conceive of my life before age 12 without Greg, or my friend Tammi, or my mot­her together with theirs talking long into the night as we three eavesdropped on our back porch. 
But change was inevitable, even if it was in­conceivable. We had already moved out of the old neighborhood when Greg was officially diagnosed a manic depressive. I didn't see much of him anymore, although my mom kept me updated on his fights, arrests and intermit­tent hospital stays through her conversations with his mother. 
Greg was going crazy. At one point, he had smashed up all the furniture in their house; his mother was afraid for her own safety. 
Things got bad when I was a senior in high school. One of my best friends lived in my old neighborhood, and I had been out with her to a party that night. A little after midnight I was at her house with some friends, trying to call my parents so I could beg them to let me stay out longer. I let the phone ring and ring; it was odd that no one answered, but I was glad. Now I had a legitimate excuse for staying out later. 
Telemarketing Earn and have fun. Hours are Monday and Tuesday. 5pm to 10pm, Sunday, 11 am to 7 pm. Good pay, short to indefinite 
Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor 

We loaded more beer into my friend's jeep and 
drove up the ridge on which part of the neigh­
borhood is built. 
It was a mild September night, and up on the ridge we had a panoramic view of the Arkansas river, with the lights of the lock and dam and the slow-moving barges. We were getting drunker, taking off our shoes and dancing to the music blaring from the jeep's radio. I re­member standing on the hood, a golden eagle with spread wings painted underneath me, and feeling the breeze sweep off the ridge and seemingly pull me down across the river valley. 
I remember thinking how lucky my friends and I were to be standing on the ridge in the night breeze --strong and young --feeling there was nothing we couldn't do, nothing we loved that would ever end for us. 
A couple hours later I had sobered up some and was driving home. I hadn't bothered to call back after the first time and was expecting to get a lecture. I burst into the living room, my defense prepared and on my lips, when the whole situation struck me as odd. My entire family was awake and dressed, even though it was very late, and they were all sitting around quietly, staring at me as I entered. My mother looked up at me and she was crying. 
My dad said softly, "We have some bad news..." And I sat down too, shaking. 
STUVENT GOVERNMENT OFFICERS 

Ann Rucker Ann Reilly
positions. Immediate openings. 

MANPOWER Temporary staff specialists 320 W. LaSalle 

Ann Eckhoff
234-0157 


NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 
FIFTH 
SON 
by Nicholas A Patricca Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, february 25, 8:10 pm Thursday, february 26, 8:10 pm friday, february 27, 8:10 pm Saturday, february 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, .3:10 pm 
WASHINOTON HALL $J Oeneral Admission $2 Students, Senior Citizens available Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday 
Washington Hall Ticket Orflce I 2 noon-6 pm weekdays Master Car<Wisa orders: 2:39·!19!17 

The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 3 

Senior Jeanne Bowman waits for her order to be filled in LaFor­tune's icecream shop 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 
Attacking religious zealotry that inhibits the political process, Sen. Paul Simon, D­Il., warned in a lecture Monday night against "wrapping politi­
cal  beliefs  in  a  religious  
veneer."  
In  his  lecture  entitled  

"Religion and Political Life: A Partnership of Convenience or Convictiton?" Simon said, "To be part of a religious elite that has a monopoly on the ultimate truths is emotionally satisfy­ing, but having been so anointed, it becomes danger­ous when these emotionally­charged certainties are applied to political life." 
The Senator cited examples of current and past religious ­political conflicts. He said that in Northern Ireland and Lebanon "zealots on each side, applying their faith to political 
Senator attacks 'religious zealotry' for inhibiting the political process 

I• 
' ' ' 
WHEN YOU NEED IT BAD 
WE DEliVER: 
~Oceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days and 7 wild nights, providing air conditioning, color TV, telephone, swimming pool and sun deck. All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. ~Optional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis).
'lfFree pool deck parties. 

~ Food, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus Programs trip participants. 
,..Computerized central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization. 
,.. Full time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 

~COMPLETE 

PACKAGE 

"ALL TAXES. TIPS AND SERVICE CHARGES INCLUDED 
ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) (INCLUDES All OF THE ABOVE) 

ROAD TRIP: We w1ll provide round trip motor coach transportation departing from your campus and travelling straight through to your hotel in Fort Lauderdale. All buses have reclining seats and a1r conditiOning, and wash room facilities for a comfortable ride. 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY ON THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 
Sharon 283-1669 Michelle 283-2939 & Anne 


life in an unthinking way, kill in the name of religion." 
Simon, an active member of the Lutheran Church, urged politicians to act on their beliefs rather than simply hold them. "Few candidates say that they belong to no church, though for some it appears to be a matter of (political) con­venience rather than convic­tion. They worship on the golf course rather than in a sanctu­ary, but often are the most ready with pious phrases on the proper occasion," he said. 
Simon offered his predeces­sor Abraham Lincoln as an ex­ample of a politician who said he belonged to no church but who went to Presbyterian ser­vices regularly and who helped abolish slavery and reunite a nation. 
"We also have the opportu­nity to shape history," Simon said. 
According to Simon,however ,compromise that may not be possible in re­ligious faith is essential in the political arena. Simon said he did not expect religious leaders to compromise their "revealed dogma," but "when the in­flexibility of religious dogma is applied to political life, then practical compromises that are necessary for progress sometimes cannot follow.'' 

Simon pointed out fundamen­talist leader Jerry Falwell, who has described Simon as "a re­ligious bigot," as someone who tries to present his political beliefs as religious doctrine. 
The Senator challenged reli­gious leaders and politicians to approach today's issues with less unyielding dogmas and more concentration on aid for the less fortunate. 
Simon, who was elected Illi­nois Lieutenant Governor in 1968, has served five terms in the United States House of Rep­resentatives and was elected to the United States Senate in 1984. 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
After listening to the speakers, the Student Senate then discussed Student Body Vice President Don Mon­tanaro's and Off-Campus Senator Fred Pugliano's meetiag with South Bend police 
officials, the Neighborhood 
Housing Services (NHS) and 
off-campus students last 
Thursday. 
"We looked for concessions 
from the police department, so 
they wouldn't bring in eight 
policemen with dogs to break 
up parties. But they said they 
just couldn't understand us 
having 10-keg off-campus par­
ties," said Montanaro. 
"(David) Roos (board mem­ber of the NHS) says there is no reason why they should sof­ten because of the University's alcohol policy," Montanaro added. According to Roos, "There is a number of faculty and students unhappy with the alcohol policy, and the opinion of South Bend residents in gen­eral is that the reason for the record number of off-campus parties is the alcohol policy," said Montanaro. 
Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron countered, "The prob­lem is deeper than softening up the alcohol policy . . . . The problem is not going to be solved until individuals learn how to drink responsibly. don't blame the police depart­ment for not granting conces­sions, with students destroying property and getting out of hand." 
Montanaro said he did not en­tirely agree. "Drinking is a part of the college experience. I think it's time we accept that as a given." 
Senior Class President Dave Miklos argued however that this was "not a given." 
Pugliano maintained that the University's alcohol policy was at fault for the increase in com­plaints and citations against students at parties. Said Pugliano, "Captain (Pat) Cot­trell said he would rather have us breaking the law here than in South Bend." 


The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 4 
Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
students to grow in whatever aspect they choose." 
Hashagen said, "The ideal social climate is for women, not for girls. The ideal climate al­lows you to grow and not only allows you to grow but to have a good time and find out more about yourself in the process. We can only reach that growth if we have all different aspects of the College working to­gether, not working against each other." 
"Academics is the core of our college life here, and every­thing grows from our academics," Rucker responded. "We have to be comfortable with our environ­ment in order to take advan­tage and really learn and grow as people." 
Regarding the question of an alcohol problem on the Saint Mary's campus, Hetterich responded, "Here at Saint Mary's we've always abided by the Indiana state law. It's cut and dried, you have to be 21 to drink here. 
We support the awareness, but we don't want to run it into forced more than they have been. We do think that Saint Mary's has a very realistic (alcohol) policy." 
When asked their opinion on the College's mission state­ment, which is printed in the student handbook, Rucker replied "the big thing is trying to make people aware of what's in it, which are very general statements about what kind of community we are and try to apply them in everyday lives." 
Eckhoff added, "Our mission is very strong; however, if we're fostering a Christian at­mosphere here, we're not to­tally aware to minorities." 
Also with regard to the Mis­sion statement, Cook said, "I think the mission statement that will come about in another year will speak more strongly to women's issues and social justice. I think student govern­ment can play a hand in educat­ing students about the mission statement." 
"One of the most important things is that we are unique," said Hashagen. "We are a wo­men's college. There are smaller and smaller numbers of women's colleges that can stand as strong and as proud as Saint Mary's can." 
The candidates were then given three minutes for a closing statement to sum up their platforms and reiterate any points made. Hetterich stressed the enthusiasm and di­versity of experience of her ticket. Rucker expressed her disappointment over the ques­tions that had been asked, and mentioned that the current stu­dent government was not "in touch with what students were doing." She also challenged an opinion made of her ticket by Scholastic magazine by saying, "We've been accused that we lack the knowledge of student government structure by Scholastic magazine, and be­cause of this, we won't be any good." 
Cook summed up her plat­form by praising the Saint Mary's student body for its en­thusiasm in this year's elec­tions, mentioning the three tickets running for student body offices as well as class of­fices. 
Voting will take place in the Haggar College Center tomor­row, from 7am to 7pm. All freshmen, soophomores and juniors are encouraged to vote. 

FastinJ!'s not fun 
APPhoto 

A small Palestinian boy awaits the arrival of food shipments at a Lebanese refugee camp. Relief began Monday after Shiite Mos­
the ground. One of the things we'd like to plug is personal re­sponsibility. You have to learn to be responsible, because it not only concerns yourself, it con­cerns others too," Hetterich added. 
Eckhoff said, "We'd like to continue to encourage alcohol awareness programs on campus. They're set up for everyone. We can't take away the rights of individuals here who are 21. This is a college campus. Alcohol is part of the social life." 
Hamann responded for her ticket by saying, "We think the clubhouse rules should be en-
Ireland 

lems lifted a four-month blockade of the camps. 
e 

TANNING BED SPECIAL 
lor N.D. or Saint Mary's Studanb 
Get a head start on your Spring Break tan. $35 for two months, $20 for one month. 
We handle U.V.A. Sun 
products to help prod 
bronzie tan and also 
"'I.,;;:·· keep you tan longer.


272-0312 
continuedfrom page 1 
granted," Hume said. "The es­sence of unity is the acceptance of diversity." 
Hume said it is a "tragedy" that the Irish people have con­tributed to unity in other countries but have been unsuc­cessful in advancing a "healing process" in Ireland. 
"There is a three-step process I call the healing process. The first stage is to create equality of all citizens. We've made a great deal of progress in the last ten years," he said. "The second stage, the crucial stage, is reconciliation breaking down the barriers be~ tween the Irish." 
Finally, Hume advocates a completly new relationship be­tween Catholics and Protes­tants which would be born out of their working together. "There are no instant answers," he said, "and any politicians who promise it will be all right tomorrow are mis­leading them." 
Hume's lecture was spon­sored by the University of Notre Dame's Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies. 
Correction 
A Notre Dame election story in Monday's Observer incorrectly reported that "Buzz" Eckelkamp is Dillon Hall's current president. Terry Lally holds that posi­tion. 
Also in the article the name of Jim Mangan, a can­didate for student body vice president, was misspelled. 
..-----------.....********************* 
~:~~:r!~~ue:rflend ~:;!:~:o:'~e• !JUNIORS: JPW REGISTRATION~ 
Julie Darnell Linda Jean Maloney '?' 
~~:;aD;;:.ey ~'!;a!:~~::;shau ~ Deirdre Finn Sue O'Connor ~ Rebecca Halloran Mary Sarah Reardon ~ Helene Goudeau Jane Shea ~ Cindy Hau Mimi Tuohy ~ 
-or ­
any Saint Mary's student t 
interested in writing for The Observer-please ~ attend a mandatory meeting this Wednesday, ~ February 18, at 7:00p.m. in room 304 of the ~ 
Haggar College Center. ~ Questions? Contact Margie Kersten at 284-5230. ~ 
---------·­

~~..~~~-..-~~~--~~.n--------~******************* 
~~~~ ,...~ 
S\) t.OG ND·SMC
9 

STUDENTS 
14th Annual Program May 20-July14 
Rome 
Travel in Ireland, 

June 14-Julyl3
Scotland and France 
Travel in France, Germany and Switzerland Organizational & Informational Meeting Feb 24, 7 pm. 
Carroll Hall, SMC Pass port photos will be taken. 
Come visit with l::tSt years students over refreshments. For more info, contact Prof. Black 4460 or 272-:3726 
~-~­
~­
-

Sisters Office Services 
TYPING 

**Term Papers** Reports Resume Preparation 
Grammar and Spelling Corrected 282-8593 425 N. Michigan Suite 202 South Bend, IN 46601 
Special Rates For Students 
)llllf" 

LaFortune, South Alcove lt 
lt 

Tuesday, Feb 17 9am • 1 Qpm ""-­
...,.­

Wednesday, Feb 18 9am • 1 Opm ~ 
...,.­
·You must bring your 1.0. * 
• 
You must register at this time to ~ attend all weekend events. 

• 
Tickets will be contained in your ~ registration package along 


* 
with weekend information. * 

"ie~~_O_i_n__t______________Tu-esda-y,Fe-brua-ry17_,19s_7-pa-ges 
Hetterich ticket earns endorsement 
We endorse the ticket of Eileen Hetterich, Smith Hashagen and Julie Parrish for Saint Mary's student body officers. 
After much debate and considerable thought, we feel that although the experience of the Sarah Cook ticket is admirable, the diversity and positive attitude of Hetterich's ticket offers a fresh outlook. 
We admire the Ann Rucker ticket for their candidness; however, their approach toward the issues involved with the student government debate was too negative. They seemed to feel that experience was a hindrance rather than a plus in the role of student body president. 
The Hetterich ticket exemplifies a balance of hard work, experience and levity. The unique sense of humor displayed gives Hetterich's ticket an edge in approachability. The diverse background from each can­didate will balance the three offices and the leadership will reflect a democratic style. 
"Changes" is the theme of Hetterich's ticket. This is critical to our endorsement as it is important to have a fresh outlook and change in the traditional positions for student body offices. 
Although none of the women on the Hetterich ticket has served as a student body officer before, this will not restrict their ability to learn and lead. 
The Hetterich ticket touched upon the importance of the religious aspect of Saint Mary's as a women's college. This is crucial to the development of Saint Mary's. 
Notre Dame can learn a great deal from the Saint Mary's student government. The seriousness and true concern of the students was evident at Monday night's debate. Student involvement has increased under Jeanne Heller's current administration. 
We commend the Saint Mary's student body for their eagerness and ambition; last year at this time there was only one ticket for student body office. It is encouraging to see three serious and dedicated tickets. 
We feel the ticket of Eileen Hetterich, Smith Hashagen and Julie Parrish is best for its well-roundedness, versatility and enthusiasm. They deserve your vote. 
-The Observer 

Doonesbury 
AS YOU KNW, aJR. MANIJIIJ'E 15

1'0 LIKE TV CAU 70 O!?IJ8< 
OKAY, 8EF(JR& f)J£ !<()U. UP 
TH/5 F/R5TMf£17NG OF 7H& 
NOmiNG1.£55 lHAN 7D 57lJIJY7H/3 

OfJR 51.13&V&S, /£!Me RR5T
CAUR»JIA TASK fOI?C& 7D 
~TION5HIP 8E7WE!£N SllHS!f:tM 

JISTA'3K HO«J Evti<YON&
J P/?IJMO'T8 5EJJ'-£9EEM 
ANIJ 'SOCIAL PRClJlfM5, 

Hl3f?& Ff£L!j ABOUT
1 ANIJ PEI?SONAL. ANJ) 
!lJtNTIFY PR/J6RAM$ 

HIM5tU 70/?AY. '-....
7HATA/JIJf(E$ 7HAT

: SOCIAL. !?E$ffJN51­
81UTY.' 
P.O.BoxQ 
Game's physical finish blurs image of teams 
Dear Editor: 
Pangborn, give us a break. You have managed to paint a biased and un­deserved portrait of Sorin Hall. Mr. Shallow and Mr. Schreder made it look like the Pangborn team wore halos and the Sorin team played with three pronged hockey sticks. Anyone who was not at the game has an image of an angelic, innocent and peaceful Pangborn team taking the ice against a violent, destructive, and unsportman­like Sorin team. This is not what hap­pened. 
Could you please answer the follow­ing questions for us, Pangborn? Whose team has the word "violence" emblazened on the backs of their uni­forms? Which team had a player who started a minor fight early in the game? What team repeatedly slapped the op­posing team's goalie while he was lying on the puck? (It's real sportsmanlike to strike someone while they're down on their back.) Whose team had a player who tried to seek revenge after being checked and then hurled insults and spit at the fans? 
Granted, Marin did check a Pangborn player shortly after the goalie incident; however, it was not a "cheap hit." The Pangborn player saw him coming from far less than ten strides away. After the check Marin was tackled by the players and then fell to the ice. This is when the Pangborn player was cut. The injury was unfor­tunate, but injuries happen especially in hockey. Hockey is not golf. There is physical contact. Contrary to popular belief the injured player was not kicked intentionally. Common sense would seem to prove this. If he had been kicked far greater damage would have been done than a superficial wound. 
After the check, the whistle was blown and the penalty called. Marin skated towards the bench and away from the action. He was obeying the refs. When the ref asked him to stop skating, he was attacked by the Pangborn player who continued his at­tack despite the referee's pleas. If Pangborn had honored the whistle, the ensuing melee never would have hap­pened. 
Garry Trudeau 
The Sorin fans have also come under fire. Welcome to the real world of hock­ey. Fans cheer that way. Sorin fans cheer with an underlying sense of humor and sarcasm. We go out to have fun. We joke about penalties and checks. 
The purpose of this letter is not to justify our actions in the game but rather to present the other side of the story. Sorin is getting a reputation that is not entirely deserved. Both teams were physical, Pangborn probably more so. It just so happens that one of their players got hurt first. Each team has the same amount of penalty minutes and the Pangborn bench cleared before Sorin's. We did not pick on them. It is unfortunate the game ended that way, but it's not as cut and dry as you make it seem. You're hardly as innocent as the picture your presi­dent paints. 
Chris Donnelly Mark Korzenecki Jimmy Malloy John Beisty Brian O'Keefe Sarin Hall 
Student interest vital to government's ability 
Dear Editor: 
Regardless of the years and the hopes of the past, student government must always look to the future. In order to be successful, officers must live up to the expectations of their peers. Truly, that is the bulk of the position. As a friend, one must be reponsible, under­standing and constantly working for a better relationship. One would expect just as much from a student govern­ment representative. Everyone must realize the vital role they play in issues, decisions and activities. If the officers do not address the needs and wants of the students, then the government is not serving its purpose. Officers can only insure a good student government in one way, students must be willing to get involved and to voice their opinions. Take the first step VOTE -it does make the difference. 
Katy Burns Barb Gullifor Anne Palamaro Rose Pietrzak 

6000, 
Quote of the day 

(3{)()[). 
\ 
"I can't give you a sure-fire for­mula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time." 
Herbert B. Swope 
General Board
Ihe ObserYer 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Menager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Deaign Manager ......... Mary Carol Creedon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Chrtstopher Murphy Advsrtslng Mans(JfJr...........•........•......Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer Ia the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neceaaarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned edltoriala represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Menager ....•...........••................. Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar apace Is available to all members ot the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt opinions o~ campus, through letters, Ia encouraged. 

·•t. .·· 
Accent 
Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 6 

Love in the afternoon ? 
Once for housewives, now a staple of college life 
E 
JOE SUCOLO The popularity of the video of the newest daytime soaps; features writer recorder greatly boosted the however, CBS is in the: process success of soaps. Working men of taping a new soap "The Bold mma has been murdered. and women could record their and the Beautiful" for its Ali is stranded in a desert soaps and watch them after lineup. after being shot. Bo is betrayed work or school. VCRs also Some of the success of such by his father. These are just a made it possible for people to shows is due to plots that deal few of the events that happen watch one soap and record an­with up-to-date issues such as daily at Notre Dame and Saint other. AIDS, drugs, teenage preg­Mary's. Well, not exactly. Many Then came the nighttime nancy, and suicide. Recently on students-men and women success, "Dallas." This is a "Knots Landing," Abby's alike-turn to the soaps as a show modeled after another daughter, Olivia, became ad­form of afternoon relaxation show called "Peyton Place," an dicted to drugs because and "escape." Soaps are no earlier nighttime soap of com­"everyone else was doing it." 
longer just for the housewife. parable success. "Dallas" tells She simply wanted to fit in. of the rich Ewings and their The episodes surrounding this Years ago, when the first Texan oil company. The show plotline showed the effects that 
soaps started on the radio (and is very successful and is still drugs had not only on Olivia, 
then later on television), they highly ranked each week. The but on the rest of her family as 
were mainly for women who success of "Dallas" brought well. The show handled the ­
were home all day long. They about its spinoff, "Knots Lan­topic realistically. 
told of people who had terrible ding." Later came more 
problems and made the "copycats." Some, such as Another reason the soaps are 
viewers' problems seem insig­"Dynasty" and "Falcon Crest," so popular is that viewers love 
nificant. The commercials survived, while others, such as the characters. Soap per­
during the shows were mainly "Bare Essence" and "The Yel­sonalities quickly become a 
directed toward the average low Rose," only lasted a few part of the viewer's family. The 
housewife. As a matter of fact, episodes. audience laughs and cries with 
the term "soap opera" came Daytime soaps are subject to its favorites. For example, 
from the commercials for the ratings, too. Such shows as several years ago "Days of Our A more recent example has Businesses have made a 
soaps and detergents that ran "The Doctors" and "Edge of Lives" showed an episode in been the topic of many jokes great deal of money off of the 
during the shows. Night" were cancelled due to which a main character, Mar­and criticism. At the beginning soaps. "Dynasty'' has its own low ratings. "Search for Tomor­lena Brady, was stran~Jied to of the 1985 season of "Dallas," line of clothes and perfume. As time passed on, things row," television's longest run­death. The viewers were so en­Bobby Ewing died. Afterwards There is a series of books 
began to change; soaps gained ning soap, was recently raged that they picketed in the show's ratings dove and about the daytime soaps. ABC 
immense popularity. Students dropped from NBC's lineup front of the NBC studios until viewers stopped watching. recently started "Soaptalk." 
and even young children began after .35 years. Another soap, they were finally assured that Things got so bad that the pro­This invention gives viewers a 
to watch the daytime dramas. "Capitol," will air its last Marlena would be bacl~. It ducers finally asked Patrick chance to talk to their favorite 
Even males who were home episode in March. Because turned out that Samantha, Mar­Duffy (the man who plays stars. By dialing 1-900-410­
during the afternoon began to soaps are always being lena's twin and another charac­Ewing) to return. Duffy agreed SOAP, one can listen to a re­
"tune in" to watch their dropped, new ones are always ter seen on the show but not and the writers had to "dream" corded message from a soap 
favorites. created. "Santa Barbara" is one as often, was killed by mistake. up a way to write Bobby back star. Each day of the week is into the show. Viewers had ac­assigned to an ABC soap. Mon­tually seen Bobby die and he day is "All My Children" day; had no twin. The solution to Tuesdays are for "Loving" while the problem will go down in Wednesday gives the public a history as the dumbest plot in chance to talk to a "One Life to television history: a dream. Live" star. Thursdays are for Pamela Ewing, Bobby's wife, "Ryan's Hope" and Fridays are dreamt the entire 1985-86 for "General Hospital" fans. season. As a result, Bobby The calls cost flfty cents. never died and viewers who Where do Notre Dame and slept through the season St. Mary's students fit in? St. missed nothing. Mary's Trish Chambers likes 
Like Duffy, many soap stars "Capitol" because It gives her a have the desire to move on. "chance to escape into the Some simply leave the show world of fantasy for a while, while others work on other which is relaxing after a long projects at the same time. day of classes." Greg Barlow "Days of Our Lives" is a good started watching "Dallas" be­example. Over the past years, cause "of all the hype sur­three major "Days" stars, rounding the famed 'Who shot Leann Hunley (Anna), Wayne J. R. ?' incident." Kathy Polac­Northrop (Roman), and Jack heck watches "Santa Barbara" Coleman (Jake), left the show because "it adds a shocking and joined the cast of twist to standard soap plots." "Dynasty." Now they enjoy Car­Jodi Hurst enjoys "Falcon rington wealth and fame. Gloria Crest" because the "characters Loring, Liz on "Days," left the and plots are racy and fun to show to pursue a singing follow." Jim Cunnar prefers career after her song "Friends "Days of Our Lives" because "it and Lovers" hit the top of the seems to be more realistic than charts. Deidra Hall and Josh the other soaps. It shows real Taylor (Marlena and Chris on characters in real situations." the show) work on two shows One final note for all "Dallas" at the same time. Hall stars in fans: It looks like Pam won't be "Our House" while Taylor ap­having any more nightmares. pears on "Valerie." The characters Pam and Donna 
The soaps also provide roles will be written out of the series for mature actors. Jane by the end of the season. Wyman, Caesar Romero, Julie Viewers and producers are sad Harris, Lana Turner, Ricardo to see them go, but fear not. Montalban, Celeste Holm, Char­Maybe it'll all be part of a leton Heston, and even former dream. Who knows? Maybe the president Gerald Ford have entire series has been a dream held regular or guest roles on so far and the real series has the soaps. These stars attract yet to begin. Or maybe the older audiences and help to viewers are just dreaming of a secure and boost shows' show called "Dallas" or maybe-­
courtesy Capital Cltle11/ABC Inc:. ratings. -well, you get the point. 


..----------------------------------------­
Business 
Tuesday, February 17, 1987-page 7 

Reilly steps down as business dean, takes leave 
Will visit markets in London, Tokyo 
By JIM RILEY Business Page Editor 
Frank Reilly, dean of the Col­lege of Business Adminstra­tion, will retire as dean this May and take a one-year leave of absence. During his leave, he will focus his attention on the internationalization of se­curities markets and visit the exchanges in both London and Tokyo. 
He will return to teaching and research after his leave. 
Reilly has been dean of the college for the past five and a half years. His tenure as dean officially ends after this year's graduation. 
A good deal of his leave of absence will be devoted to study of the internationaliza­tion of securities markets. He said that in the past, the United States concentrated only on the market in New York, and busi­ness schools and textbooks gave only passing mention to the other securities markets in the world. 
But today, the international securities markets are "one big, connected ring with trading going on 24 hours a day," according to Reilly, with the main trading centers being in New York, London, and Tokyo. 
So that he can integrate this theme throughout his textbooks when he revises them, he said he will undertake an intensive study of the rele­vant literature, and he will take a first-hand look at markets abroad. 
Reilly will travel to London for a few weeks and spend about two weeks in Tokyo. 
Reilly said there are two main reasons why he is quitting as dean. "The long term desire was to go back to teaching and research," said Reilly, citing this as the more important rea­son. He said the initial commit­ment as dean was for five and a half years with an optional extension if both he and the ad­ministration agreed to it. But he said that if he stayed an­

other five and a half years, it would be very difficult to go back to teaching and research. The other reason for the 
dean's departure is that "there 
are other things I wanted to do 
that you just can't do when you 
are a dean," said Reilly. An ex­
ample of these things would be 
editing a series of books for a 
publisher. 
Reilly said that one of the best things about being dean is "you are in a postion to effect 
change." He said that as dean he did not have to convince a group of 10 other people before he could do something. With the permission of the provost, he could go ahead and implement his idea. 
Reilly said he will spend a great deal of time just catching up on the literature and jour­nals in the business field that he has not had the time to keep up with during the past years. 
Reilly's duties as dean in­cluded administration of cur­rent programs, development of new programs, and expansion of old ones. He also did ''development work,'' which he said is basically fundraising. 
"The notion of development is a major function the dean has to be involved in," said Reilly. Program expansion requires money, and the dean plays a large role in raising that money, according to Reilly. 
Reilly also has played a part in the recruitment of faculty. He said there have been five to seven openings per year, meaning that 20 to 25 people had to be interviewed each of those years. 
Reilly also dealt with the im­portant visitors and speakers who came to campus. "You meet some wonderful people," said Reilly. "That's been a real bonus for the job." 
He jokingly added that his job has given him the opportu­nity to have dinner with Uni­versity President Father Theodore.Hesburgh about once a month. 
While dean, Reilly has also continued to teach. He taught a graduate course and worked with the executive programs. He has been able to revise his books, but he said it was hard to find the time. 
He has also written one or two articles each year and has done some research, but not as much as he would like to have done. 
But as time-consuming as being an administrator has been, he said, "It was a great experience. I enjoyed it, and I wouldn't trade the last five years. 
He also said he feels he ac­complished a great deal of what he wanted to do. 
During his tenure as dean, Reilly initiated an executive MBA program. The regular MBA progran increased in size from 150 to 250 students. An executive development de­partment was set up which of­fers non-credit courses for ex­ecutives. The executive development programs run for varying lengths of time, and there are 20 to 30 such pro­grams each year. 
Also, a center for research in business has been established. Such a center is necessary "to attract and retain really good research faculty," according to Reilly. The center provides research assistants, typing ser­vices, and database fac~lities. 

Investment banking firms compete for student recruits 
With the investment bankers interviewing on campus this month, many Domers would like to learn about how investment bankers compete for recruits. 
To begin, one should take a look at the atmosphere for Notre Dame undergraduates. Kitty Arnold of Career Placement has noticed that "it's very com­petitive for students anywhere to get jobs with im­nvestment bankers." 
Still, undergraduates and MBA's here are getting offers to start their fast-paced career tracks on Wall Street. "More and more investment bankers are interviewing on this campus," according to Arnold. Indeed, Paine Webber has added its name to this year's list list already featuring such big names as First Boston, Drexel Burnham, and five others. 
These institutions come here in search of hard­driving students who show quantitative ability and leadership skills. These institutions generally look for economics and finance majors, but offers have gone to English and engineering specialists as well, indicating that the students' programs are not as important as their motivation. 
Typically, each firm will talk to two or three dozen prospects; three or four at most will eventually work their way to job offers. For example, last year the Wall Street companies extended 21 offers, and Domers took 13 of them. 
The positions they accept take the form of two­year analyst programs. Upon completion, these ac­hievers often enter MBA programs. This track for ND undergrads contrasts sharply with the recruit­
ing at major graduate schools of business. 
Alex Vonderhaar 
Business Bits 
The Wall Street Journal recently described the race for these MBA's: 
First, salaries commonly range around $28,000 for those with bachelor's degrees from Notre Dame, while those with Wharton and Harvard MBA's start at twice that rate. Second, with the MBA's, the firms are competing for the students rather than the other way around because their terms usually last more two years. 
Despite the insider trading publicity over the course of the last year, graduates are still attracted by fast living and big payoffs. Students regard the scandals as the exception, not the rule. "The chal­lenge that every MBA faces,'' says Stanford ethics professor Kirk Hanson, "is how to balance that drive for money and power with the drives to be a family person and to serve the community." 
Achieving that balance is becoming more diffi­cult. According to a survey at Duke's Fuqua School of Business, 87 percent of the students believed that insider trading was common in the industry. 
Still, "our students are concerned but not to the extent that they'd want to go into another field," claims one dean at Fuqua. 
The results back this up. The big investment banking firms won nearly a third of the graduating MBA's from Harvard and Columbia last year. 
Business schools themselves have had to consider adding seminars on ethical behavior for their stu­dents. While Stanford added one this past fall, stu­dents remain skeptical. In fact, 61 percent of the Fuqua survey said they doubted that the schools could even teach ethical behavior. 
Thus, Notre Dame students should feel fortunate for a couple of reasons. We have opportunities to soar as high as the movers and shakers on Wall Street. We also have the chance to use the values that our education gave to us. 
The Notre Dame Finance Club Presents 
THE TWENTY-NINTH ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 
Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:00p.m. RAYMOND D. MEYO President and Chief Executive Officer, Telxon Corporation "The Story of Entrepreneurship" 
Wednesday, February 18, 1987 -Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:00p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
ROBERT R. KILEY Chairman ofthe Board, New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority "Getting New Yorkers to Work: The Challenge of Managing and Financing the Nation's Largest Mass Transit Network" 
PAUL J. SCHIERL President and Chief Executive Officer, Fort Howard Paper Company "Fort Howard Finance: Policy, Philosophy and Major Activities" 
Each presentation will be followed by an informal reception. Students, faculty and general public are encouraged to attend. 
Telxon chief set to kick off Finance Club's lecture series 
Special to the Observer 
Raymond Meyo, president and chief executive officer of Telxon corporation, will speak this afternoon at 4 p.m. as part of this year's Finance Forum. 
Meyo, a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, will give a presenta­tion entitled ''The Story of Entrepreneurship." 
When Meyo came to Telxon, they were almost bankrupt, but he turned the company around, according to Dave Jacobi, a vice president of the Notre Dame Finance Club, which is sponsoring the forum. 
Meyo teamed with Robert Meyerson, another Telxon offi­cer, to bring Telxon from a net loss position in 1979 to its cur­rent position as the world's leading producer of portable tele-transaction computers, said Jacobi. 
The main purpose of the Finance Forum is to allow stu­dents to go beyond the theory of the classroom and get a look at the real world, said Jacobi. 
The Twenty-ninth Annual Finance Forum continues Wed­nesday with presentations by Robert Kiley, chairman of the board of the State of New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Paul Schierl, president and CEO of Fort Howard Paper Company. 
This year's speakers are all Notre Dame alumni. 
Meyo recently donated $1 million toward the construction of an athletic facility which will be named in his honor, accor­ding to Jacobi. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 

The ND men's volleyball club won the Rich O'Leary Classic over the weekend by defeating Bowling Green, 3 games to 1. The 12-1 Irish will face Calivn tonight at the ACC Pit at 7:30. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice tomorrow at 6:30 instead of the usual starting time. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Ob­server 
The OC lacrosse team will hold a practice and organizational meeting tonight at 11 in the North Dome of the ACC. Bring equipment if you can. -The Observer 
SMC Intramural basketball begins the first week of March. Entry forms are available at Angela Ath­letic Facility and are due no later than Feb. 25. There is a $10 fee per team. -The Observer 
In the NBA last night, Sacramento beat Chicago, 124-120; Cleveland beat Seattle, 105-94; Indiana beat Golden State, 112-93; Philadelphia beat New York 111-101· and Milwaukee beat New Jersey, 128-124. -A~sociated 
Press 

At the .Junior Olympics in Orlando, Fla., last weekend, eight Notre Dame fencers competed. In the men's foil division, freshman Joel Clark finished 18th and sophomore Derek Holeman finished 32nd in a field of 150. In the sabre, sophomore Tim Collins and freshman Danny Yu finished 15th and 36th in a field of 133. In the women's foil, Janice Hynes placed 5th, Ann Barreda placed 7th, Kristin Kralicek finished 25th and Brenda Leiser finished 74th. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Depth 
continuedfrom page 12 
bit, but it would be nice to get the starters back as we head into the tough part of our season." 
Walsh, a starter in the doubles lineup, played fifth singles in the first two matches and fourth in the finale. He was also victorious in three doubles expeditions with Wallace at his side. 
Fallon is leary of the tough competition this weekend. With 499 tennis wins in his pocket, he looks to break 500 either Friday against Northern Illi­nois or this weekend at the Notre Dame quadrangular, which will be played in Elkart due to the construction delays with the Eck Pavilion. 
11le ObMIYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 11le ObMmlt' Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Colige Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. Ali ciassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mali. The charge is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORD PROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

................................................................ 
PREGNANT? Happy, loving, financially secure couple eager to adopt Infant. Con· lidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg collect 513·271-7526. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 

................................................................ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
THE MUNCHY CO. Transferring ownership of the campus snack food delivery sarvice to underclas­smen lor the 1987 school year and beyond. II interested, call £1558 lor In· 
formation. 
LOST/FOUND I 

Lost : Silver Wedding Band at the Rock. Major RewardOose 283-1607) enad 
R"iio'P'CAio..iiR.iis's'i:as-r··~·N··;;:raR"i.1 
CALL 4055 IF FOUND 
................................................................ 
Lost: Selke Watch at Broomball game at Stepan on Tuesday, Feb. 1011 Please call Dan at 272-6054. 
LOST: GOLD BRACELET WITH MAROON BIRTHSTONE ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, AT BRIDGET'S. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, CALL JILL AT 277-8390 OR WILLIE AT 277-4481. 
WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN­TALLY TOOK MY BOOKS FROM SOUTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK PLEASE LEAVE AT LEAST MY NOTES AND MY ADDRESS BOOK SOME· WHERE SO I CAN GET THEM BACKII NO INQUIRIES WILL BE MADE. THANK YOU 
LOST at JR. Formal: Grey Kuppenheimer Tweed. It Is my roommate's and I want to live with him next year so I need It back. FOUND at JR. Formal: Grey Tweed. Call David at 1454 
LOST: One blue ski jacket in the pool­room of LaFortun on 2113 If found, please call2547 or return to 225 howard. There is a Va lentines card In lhe pocket with my name and address 
LOST: A pair of black gloves In rm 222 Cushing. Pleasa cail Rick at 3252 if found. 
Lost: Monet pearl bracelet at Tri·MII Ball or between PE & South Dining Hall. High Sentimental value. If found pleasa call x3884. 
LOST: Friday night 2113 at the ACC a set of keys. They are on an NO key chain and have a small penknife attached. Pleasa call 1242 -they are very lmpor· tant. 
Found In Stapen Center: Black Caslo jog· glng watch. To Claim cail J.C. or Brian. £1193. 
FOUND: Small pearl bracelet at THeo's friday. Call 3758 to identify. 
LOST: A SMALL BLACK PURSE AT TAl MIL, NEED KEYS AND I.D. PLEASE CALL MARIA AT 214-4277 IF FOUND. 

FOUND: Clold ~aiJwljor Form.t. Call 277-3835. ~~1Jit~> ,., .... .........................~.:~..~::.r.·.~.:::.... ~:: ........... 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australla, Asia. All fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightsaeing.Free inlo.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
DESPERATELY SEEKING A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR A FRIEND AND I. TO LEAVE FRIDAY 2-20 AND RETURN SUNDAY 222. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT x4304. 
NEED RIDE TO GRAND RAPIDS MICH. FOR FRI. FEB 20 CALL BRIAN £4122 
Ride to U of Illinois at Champaign this Fri -Feb. 20. Willing to pay whatever necessary. KRIS 2762 
HELP! Need ride to IU or Indy this wknd 2>20. Will share $. Call Paul at £2486. 
FOR SALE 
Is H True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today I Call 1-312-7 42-1142, Ext. 7316. 
Comfortable ranch lor ssle by owner-1 ml north of NO library 3 bedrooms,2 baths-low taxes Call 277 ·1907 
For Sale: Silver Earrings call Ana at 284· 4133 
OVATION 6 STRING ELECIACOUSTIC WCASE $325 277-3821 6-9 PM 
2 AIRTIX· S. BEND· BUFFALO FEB 20·22; $150 EA. CALL 288· 7560 
FOR SALE: 1980, V-6, Front Wheel Drive Chevy-Citation, 4-door Hatchback, $1500. Call 1682. 
...................................... ~ ........................ 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
HELP! ALUMNI WILLING TO KILL FOR 4 DEPAUL GA'S. SAVE A LIFE! CALL MARTY-1471 
j:j~;;;;·i)~;;;~i·C3;;:~·c:i·-~3ii2................. 
NEED 2 GA's DEPAUL CALL STEVE X3366 
IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? with two (2) DePaul GAs? Will pay$ Billx1480 
HELPI I NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TICKETS TO THE NDMIAMI GAME ON THURSDAY, MARCH 5. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283­3726. 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S WILL PAY$$$ CALL BRIDGET 284-4410 
I need a group of 2,3, or 4 DEPAUL GAs CALL 2073 
Need 2 tickets lor DePaul game. Will pay $$$. Call Nellie at 3602. 
I NEED DEPAUL GA'S. WIU PAY BIG BUCKS. CAU PETE AT 2153. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MONARCH at Theodore'a TWI!Idav at 9 followed by Blind Rivet ': ,, 

THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 806 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 
BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y.? I LOVE N.Y. DO YOU LOVE N.Y.? 
BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE 42ND ST 
BLOOMINGDALESI 
BIG APPLE 
BIG APPLE 

WHO LOVES N.Y. 
BIG APPLE 

What would SPRING BREAK be like without your RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you want them. You know you need them. WELL COME AND GET THEMI CALL TIM AT 1801, RM. 324 DILLON! "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" 
SOPHOMORES! SOPHOMORES! 
SOPHOMORES I Career Is a MAJOR declalon. II you haven't decided on one and feel un· prepared to deal with Fall Registration which beglna April 23rd, consldar at· tending a career declalon-meklng workshop. Workshops will be held from February 23rd through March 5th. Call 239-7336 lor details. 
Construction, Drivers, Welders, Mac­hinists. Will train some positions. (Up to $60001nonth) Transcontinental Job Search (303) 452-2258 or (308) 382­3700 lee. 
LOVE SEX AND THE I.R.SI COMING SOON TO A THEATRE NEAR YOUI FROM THE ST. EDWARD'S HALL PLAYERS. 
SPRING BREAK '87 SPEND IT AT DAYTONA BEACH Contact Campus Rep. 283-4003 
LOOKING FOR A JOB? GET YOUR RESUME PROFESSIONALLY DONE AT ADWORKS M-F 2:0Q-5:00 3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FRI. FEB 20 CALL BRIDGET 284-4410 
GIRL SEEKS LAZY BOY ..... . 
DRUIDS: Call40741or robe assignments and wor­ship times 
Stonehenge lives... 
Zeppelin-Yesl Cream-Yes! MONARCH· YESI Theodore's 9 tonne 
MONARCH LIVE ROCK Theodore's Tuesday 9 pm >W Tunes by: LED ZEP, CCR, SATEL· LITES, KINKS WHO, CREAM, BEATLES, VH, ~MORE GREAT ROCK THE WAY IT WAS MEANT TO BE-LIVEI 
HEY LOST TRIPLE! Even though you spelled my name wrong, I'd still like to know. who. the hell are you?l? Pleasa respond here. •11. 
. . ..... (,~· ...,......._ 
Catherine, 
Even though I don't like 
The B-52's 
I figure that wnh their type of music 
I don't have much to lose. 
And even though I don't have 
A 'hidden heart', 
I am glad that In my life now 
You play such a big part. Pretty lame excuse lor a poem,huh? Happy belated V-dayl 
ATTENTION MARK COSTANZI: What exactly Is an udder? 
w'h~..~~--ih~-ii~~;·j;;~? .......................... 
Who is Queen of the Cardsharks? ANNETTE ROWLAND...Happy Birthday Ill 
Love, Your Farleyne Friendlles 
R"id~--~~-ci~~~-.-·i2ii~i22.255~·;·50a····· ... 
i:;.;;·~i··~-~i·.··~~d-·i·k~;;..;;:·o~~·i;;··~ 
PERSONAL suggestion, I have these questions: R U A TOVAC? TRUE BLOND? We Love You, PJSB 
................................................................ 
Kim, maybe you should have gone to see Fast Times--where would you have been today? 
N~~i:·;;~~--~;~·i;~·,-y··~··C3~;j;;~~·~: .............. 
;i);i~k-thi~:;;:jj'j;;;;;j;··y~~;··;;;~~i;;··;;;;~;;.~ 
John Schwartz al his Classic Rude best.. 
i::B'_.......................................................... 
Thanks lor a great V'day!l You're my one and only munchklnl W/WIIs better than brunch anyway, but walsh your elbows I Love ya tons, 
S.B. Budster 
................................................................ 
JOAN, JOAN -I'd Klsa you but I'm JUST too tired. 
NO MEN: So you want to have a shame­ful affair? Well, a sexy, lusty wench lives on floor three of BP! An exerpt from Friday's conversation: He: Do you always wear a miniskirt when you relax? She: No(giggles) He: Then why don't you take It off? She: Why don't you? Cherry­Cherry very contrary, your secret's too good not to share. Men, lor ecstasy and passion call Jade at 1618. 
:r~·;;;~-9~;;;~·;;;~·;.;;;;;;;;~-~~·;;-,;i~~·~;;i;d 
sweater and the brown, leather jacket, who was in the SMC dining hail last Thursday (the 12th at 12:30 pm). The girl with the long hair wearing the purple sweater thought you had great taste. II you're interested In proving It reply here. 
Live In Concert: 
"CHANGES" 
TOUR '87 
VOTE FEB 18 IN HCC ~ 
HETTERICH -SBP HASHAGEN • VPSA PARRISH -VPAA 
MARDI GRAS BALL Friday, 27 Feb. 1987 Costume or formal attire requested 
Tammy Shelor HERE'S YOUR PER· SONAL Have a great dayl Love Ya, La 
SMURF, Thanks lor the "fun-loving" 
time Saturday night. I really 
enjoyed the "brlsk" walk afterwards. 
It was a blast. Thanks, 
Smurlette. 
always clear...lt was good exchanging 'hellos' with you Monday. 
LAURA MAZDA -Thank you lor melting my brick wall (on Valentine's Day) and bringing back 'that loving feeling'. Dance much? Call me. ·Kevin 
..... 

vou·li)O; ·Jio!L. ~1::.>:;;;,-,·.; 
SMC CLASS OF 88 
VOTE I 
"T" AND CRUMPETS 
"T" DONEGAN 
LOIS MORAHAN 
KATE McDEVm 
ANGIE TEEPLES 
TRY A NEW BLEND OF FUN 
MAUREENIIII Thanks lor a wonderful time at Tri-Mil. You're a real knockoutlll Hope you'll go out with me again. Keep smiling II II 
Kelly 
HEY OTTER, THE DOCTOR & FRIENDS WOULD LIKE TO WISH YOU A HAPPY 19thl ROCK & ROLL, DR. BEAM I 
To the cute girl with the cold ears -Do you still have the EAR MUFFS Either way, please call -Pete 2546 
ANN B. A slip of the lounge last weekend Was not so wise But in hopes of your forgiveness I do apologize WILL (WAVE) 
WHO CARES CARRIGAN CARES/ Mike carrlgan lor 
South Quad Senator. Endorsed by: Current South Senator Lyons Pres, Badin Pres, Morrissey Pres, and Your Mom. Vote Ca"lgan today In your hall. 
ZEPPLIN Hugh,Marty,Andy,Jeff Thanx lor all the TLCI Mom,Sid Vicious,& I appreciate ill Karen the Nose 
DEAREST KATHRYN: I'm sorry you're right It was really tur­qolae ·love K 
Lisa B, Janel, Mo. Cindy, Betsy, Meg, Amy and everyone who came ··THANKS lor a super 21sti Mary Kate, Mary Lee, Mary Kirsch 
Hey,Davld Klnkopll FELIZ CUMPLEANOSI from Karen and your non-engllah speaking data 
So you never get any classlfleds, huh? Well, here's one. Happy Halloween, Thanksgiving, Birthday, Christmas, New Year's and Valentine's Day. Oh, and good luck on last semester's finals and this semester's interviews. Anything else? Can I get you anything at the Oak Room? 
SMC CLASS OF 88 
VOTE I 
"T" AND CRUMPETS 
"T" DONEGAN 
LOIS MORAHAN 
KATE McDEVITT 
ANGIE TEEPLES 
TRY A NEW BLEND OF FUN 
Hi Caral Thanks lor the calli Glad to hear from you. Domerland just Isn't the same with you In France. BE GOODII Loile, Kris 
I PmY THE FOOL who stole my baok· pack from south dining haUl What? You can't tell II mine is the one you swiped ? Well, It had two racketball radc81!1:in.lt. Please return them and I won't imf!>O~ capitol punnlshment, you dirty rat. Oall Corky 3184 
................................................11., ••••.• .,...... 
SENIOR CLASS SENIOR CLASS COCKTAIL PARTY· tonight from 9pm to 1 am in the Monogram Room, A.C.C. Only $4 lor all the beverages, munchies, music vou. !)8n handle. Semi-formal attire. 21 ID re­quired. SENIOR CLASS SKI Nl(iHl; to· morrow (Wed.) at Ski World. Sign-ups tonight from 7·9pm In the class office. Great prices! $1 resarves bus spot. Lilt ticket $7.25, lift and ski rental $12. Bus leaves Ubrary Circle at 4:30pm, with skiing from 5-11pm. 
...............1·S'f·souiic!'8ANK······........ 
Buy or IMM a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available for all U•. _... 
....................~··· .......................................... 
SENIORS ONLY 87 DAYS UNTIL GRADUATION Ill Come out to the Senior Club this Thursday to start thosa last 87 days out rightl You'll finally gel the chance to sample all those Jamaican beverages you've heard so much about! Jamaican drink specials! Thursday, February 19. SENIOR CLASS INDY TRIP Friday thru Sunday, Feb. 2Q-22. There won't be anything going on around here because It's J.P.W. Weekend, so stop by the Senior Class Office, the Indianapolis In­formation booklets. Great specials! SENIORS 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
gilts lor all occasions..... birthdays, 
holidays, anniversaries 
great snack ideas ..... trail mixes, dried 
fruit and nuts, yogurt items 
LOCATED IN LAFORTUNE BASE· 
MENT PHONE 239-6714 
You're pretty cocky lor a freshman! 
JULIA,THANKS FOR THE GREAT WEEKEND. I HAD A BLAST. YOU'RE THE BEST. LOVE THE MARASCHINO CHERRY MAN. 
LIVE IN CONCERT "CHANGES" TOUR '87 VOTE FEB 18 IN HCC HETTERICH • SBP HASHAGEN-VSPA PARRISH -VPAA 
occ·s 1 AND 4 . 

OUR ROOMMATE PUKED IN YOUR 
BATHROOM, AND YOUR ROOMMATE 
PUKED IN OUR BATHROOM. THE 
SCORE IS EVEN! 
OCC'S 1 AND 3 SMC 

To our "cuz" Scott Happy belated VD. Maybe we can do din­ner another lime.We'll keep sen ding thoughts,OK? Luv your SMC coualna 
SMC CLASS OF 88 VOTE I "T" AND CRUMPETS ''r' DONEGAN LOIS MORAHAN KATE McDEVm ANGIE TEEPLES TRY A NEW BLEND OF FUN 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A· THONF4 WHEN· FEB 16-19, 23-26; 6:3Q-9:30PM WHERE • 2nd FLOOR NO ADMIN BLD WHY • THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER IS A PREGNANCY HELP CENTER THAT RUNS ON VOLUNTEERS AND DONATIONS. WE NEED TO RAISE $25,000 ° $30,000. WE NEED STUDENT HELP IN CALL· lNG POTENTIAL DONORS 
CONTACT YOUR ND-SMC RIGHT TO UFE DORM REP FOR MORE INFOR· MAT/ON 
OR CALL KRIS ND-2550 OR THERESA SMC-4096 
ANNA GAFFNEY 
Secretiy drinks vodka & Pepsi in her closet 
DONNA CRONIN 
Infamous dart destroyer 
AMYNIES 
Was a Solid gold dancer in a former life 
MARY PAT TIERNEY 
Prefers her gllta In brown paper bags 
UNDAJOEGER 
really isn't engaged 
LAURA MILLIGAN 
famous last words: ,n a lew months. • 
LIVE IN CONCERT "CHANGES" TOUR '87 VOTE FEB 18 IN HCC 
HETTERICH-SBP HASHAGEN-VPS-A PARRISH-VPIV. 
..............................§.l~t:!::....... 

~·~rf.t~·~. · ( ••; h: · ~ •o...~ 'i,': •.•.. 
·.· \ .·. ··.-.:;.,. 
:··:,;.:. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987-page 9 
Gymnastic Club performs well d~espite early problems 
While the Gymnastics Club has more members than usual this year, it has been outstanding indi­vidual performances that have highlighted the squad's season so far. 
In the Miami of Ohio Invitational two weeks ago, the men's team finished third out of four teams and the women placed second of three teams. Junior Jen Hoover captured the women's all­around title, and junior Paul Nowak was the top gymnast for the Irish men. 
During last weekend's dual meet with the Uni­versity of Chicago, which the women's team won and the men's team lost, Nowak turned in his second consecutive strong effort to win the men's all-around competition. 
The fact that the club is even competing is some­what fortunate, as the teams could not get a coach until Sandy Vanslager stepped in over a month into the year. 
"Without her, we wouldn't be here," said Club President Matt Sennett. "We missed out on a lot of fall training. We have only four meets this year because we aren't that prepared." 
Notre Dame will compete in the Purdue Golden Grips on Feb.28, and will end the year with the first annual Notre Dame Invitational on March 
28. 

"There's been a lot of improvement. We have a lot of new people, and they've made a lot of good strides for the future. It's really looking good be­cause we have a lot of young people on both the men's and women's teams," said Sennett. "We had a really good recruiting year as far as getting people out and keeping them enthusiastic. We made a real effort to go out of our way to help the new people." 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

The Irish defeated Calvin College, 15-6,15-6,15-9, in the first round on Friday. In the championship, the Irish met Bowling Green, which had Defeated Notre Dame two weeks earlier. This time, the Irish 
came out on top, 15-8,15-10,12-15,15-11. 
"When we lost to Bowling Green, we had played five matches that day, and they just cleaned up on us. This time, we started off slow, and it was kind of touch and go at first, then we took off," said Club Secretary Steve Kranz. "After that, ex­cept for that one game we let slip, we really played well. It was all defense and serving that won it for us. Service errors were almost nil." 
Earlier in the week, the Irish knocked off Grand Valley State, 15-6,15-11,15-8, and Toledo, 15-5,15­5,15-6. The entire second unit played for the first time together in the last two games of the Grand Valley State match, and was led by Tony Perez. 
Notre Dame was scheduled to play at Ball State, currently ranked eighth in the nation, last night. The Irish are back in the ACC Pit tonight at 7:30 for another match with Calvin College. 
The Women's Soccer Club was able to tie In­diana, 1-1 in the first round of the Saint Mary's Invitational Tournament on Sunday. Forced to play their second game of the indoor tournament just one hour later, the Irish could not keep up the momentum, and were ambushed, 12-0, by a varsity program from Michigan State. 

CAREER TUNITIE FIRST AND SECOND YEAR LAW STUDENTS: The United States Marine Corps Judge Advocate Division offer you a unique opportunity. The Judge Advocate Division functions much like a large civ­ilian law firm and includes about 400 practicing lawyers. Few civilian practices, however, can offer a young lawyer the diver­sity of assignments you will receive in the Marine Corps. . As ~ Judge Advocate, you will have the opportunity to work ~n a var~ety of fields, such as international, labor, torts, en­vironment, family, and aviation law. Your initial work will probably be in litigation, as either a prosecutor or a defense counsel in court-martial and later as a judge in criminal cases of all descriptions. Some of the Judge Advocate's practice is routine, such as drafting wills and leases. Judge Advocates have also appeared before federal district courts, courts of appeal, the Merit Syst~s Protection Board, and at Equal Employment Opportunity Comnussion and Nuclear Regulatory Commission hearings. THE BENEFITS OF BECOMING A U.S. MARINE CORPS JUDGE ADVOCATE: Starting Salary $19,500 -$23,200* Opportunity to clerk at a major Marine Command during* the SWilmer Law Program Guarantee* Freedom to withdraw from the program after initial* training Longevity for rank while in school -which means more* money to you 30 days paid vacation* Immediate courtroom experience upon graduation* FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-621-8009  


Irish halt Crusaders' quest as McManus leads swimmers 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
In the closing dual meet of the season, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams took their own crusade to Valparaiso •m Saturday. The attack was led by three Irish kings :md two queens in what became, for part of the time, a slaughter. 
The three kings led their own crusade against the Crusaders, gaining places in many of the ke) ~vents. In the 200-yard individual medley, junior Pat McManus con­quered the oppostion using his speed in the butterfly portion of the medley to gain the upper hand. 
Following McManus' exam­ple, sophmore David Thoman captured a place in both the 50­yard freestyle and 100-yard backstroke, while fellow soph­omore David Ledrick grabbed first in the 200-and 500-yard freestyle events with personal bests. 
The men came out with an overwhelming 81-21 victory over Valparaiso and a very pleased coach. 
"The men had a great day and their perfomances show that we're not far from giving anyone in the country a good race," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. "With the team so strong, the seniors were able to try new events and have a great time." 
The Irish women had a toug­her time in their contest, but emerged triumphant with im­pressive performances by two young ladies. 
Switching from her accus­tomed slot in the back-stroke, freshman Mary Acampora went head-to-head with Val­paraiso in the 1000-yard frees­tyle to take first place. Her times were consistent with those of the regular swimmers. 
Another swimmer making a transition was freestyler Kathy Quirk. She took first in the 100­yard back-stroke following it up with a first place finish in the 200-yard individual medley with a personal best of 2: 16.5. 
Coach Welsh cited the good balance of ability as a major help in Saturday's 65-84 win. 
"We're able to put people in new events and have consistent times," said Welsh. "This gives us confidence and keeps us excited. I'm happy with the girls. They have a lot to be proud of." 

SMC speeds by Grace 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball squad defeated its 11th op­ponent of the year Saturday, downing Grace College by a score of 54-45. 
Grace came out trying to con­trol the tempo of the game, but they only managed to keep things slow for part of the first half as the Belles were able to quicken the tempo before the end of the half. The score was 26-23 as the teams headed for the lockerroom. 
"The reason the score was close at the half was due to the many turnovers that we had," said Head Coach Marvin Wood. "We were able to correct the problem in the second half which enabled us to pull ahead with a stronger lead." 
The lead was increased to a nine-point spread nine minutes into the half. This was attrib­uted to the strong rebounding, increased pressure on defense and better shot selection. Also, a more balanced team contri­bution was made this game. 
The only two to score in double figures were Tammye and Julie Radke with 16 and 12 points respectively. An addi­tional eight points were added by Ann Gallagher, while Donna Wolfe and Kris Pantelleria netted six apiece. Besides her field goal contributions, Wolfe lead the team with five rebounds, while six other players pulled down four rebounds each. 
In his best season ever while coaching at Saint Mary's, Wood expressed satisfaction in the team's ablility to come on strong in the second half. 
In their final game of the season, the Belles host Purdue Calumet on Thursday at 7 p.m_ The decision for postseason ac­tion does not come until Feb. 22. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 10 





M. Johnson 1 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 Coumbs 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Bookhard 1 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 Burke 3 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 
Fraser 13 0-0 0-0 0 4 0 200 20-52 13-17 25 15 54 
FG Pet. -.385. FT Pet. -.765. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -16. 3-point goals -Bailey. Assists ~ (Van Drost 4). Technicals -none. 
Notre Dame (74) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 37 6-8 4-4 9 2 16 Stevenson 37 6-13 1-2 4 2 13 Voce 15 1-2 0-0 2 1 2 Rivers 23 6-11 2-2 4 3 15 Hicks 28 7-12 2-2 6 2 16 Fredrick 17 3-6 0-0 2 2 6 Nanni 10-0 0-0000 Nicgorski 1 0-2 1-2 1 0 1 Smith 6 0-1 1-2 1 0 1 
T. Jackson 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
J. Jackson 10 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Paddock 24 2-2 0-0 7 0 4 20031-59 36 12 74 11-14 
FG Pet. -.525. FT Pet. -.786. Team rebounds -b1. Turnovers -13. 3-point goals -Rivers. Assists -19 (Rivers 6). Technicals ­none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 35, Wagner 27. Of­ficials -Roger Parramore, Dick Honig, Joe Kavulich (all MAC). A -11,418(c). 


~ DISTINGUISHED STUDENT 
* * 
: AWARD ! * * 
~ ~nee again the Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nomina-! ~ tions from February 10 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished !* Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor * : an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following ! * criteria: * * 1. Service to Notre Dame * 
* ~ 
* * 
: 2. Service to the Community ! 
* 3. Good Academic standing !* * ! Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association office on the 2nd * 
*floor of the Administration Building, University Ministry offices -Badin ! : Hall and Memorial Library and the Center for Social Concerns. ! 
!* Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 28.! * 
***************************************************~** 




~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Toda 
Tuesday, February 17, 1987-page 11 


Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
AN 1111? Of.../JIIM£W5 emc­TIITTON HAN&5 HMW IN C(J(/f(/1(£, m~ OFftCt5 or me Mt&tf!Y ~s... 
8t.()(M1 f'!Cr4YIJN6 •.. 5t.OW N' ei/SY... 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "The Economics of Uganda and Nicaragua: Some Comparative Observa­tions," by Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., ND. 131 Decio 
12:10 -12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk "Todd Webb: Photographs of New York and Paris, 1945-1960," by Prof. Richard D. Stevens, ND. O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 
3: 30 p.m. : Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Cooperative Degradation of Crystalline Cellulose by Thermostable Cellulase," by J .H. David Wu, MIT, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering Seminar, "On to Mechanical Components: Universal Joints and Roller Chains," by Ching Kong Chen, Columbia University, 303 Cushing Hall 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses 
R: base 5000, part I, 108 Computing Center, limit 7, and Maiffiitnet, 23 Computing Center, limit 10, to register, call Betty 239­
5604 
4:00 p.m.: UND Finance Club Finance Forum Lecture, "The Story of Entrepreneurship" by Raymond D. Meyo, President and CEO, Telxon Corporation, Akron, Ohio, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Cascading Trophic Interactions: Evidence from Whole-Lake Experi­ments," by Dr. Stephen Carpenter, ND, Galvn Life Sciences Auditorium, 283 
Wv CIIN !» IT... 
\ 
7: 30 p.m. : Lecture, "Liberty and Justice for All: Freedom in South Africa," by Dr. Mary Frances Berry, Howard University and Commissioner, U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, Library Auditorium: Spon­sors: Arthur J. Decio Foundation; Pak­lawn, Elkhart, Ind. ; and UND Studies Program 
7:30 
p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series "Take the Money and Run," 1969, color, 85 minutes, directed by Woody Alfen, An­nenberg Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m.:Fellowship Of Christian Ath­letes, CSC 8:00 -11:00 p.m. : Bob Corrigan on Piano presented by "That's Entertain­ment," Chameleon Room, Haggar Center 


9:00 1 a.m.:"Blind River"at Theodore's,$2 9:00-1 a.m.:Senior Class Cocktail Party, Monogram Room,ACC, $4 includes beverages, food and music, 21 
I.D. required 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Baked Chicken Seafood Newburg over Patty Shell Crepes Florentine Monterey Muffin Melt 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 
1 Addle-laddie 
5Anny man 10 Crop 14 Off8hore 15 Soap plant 16 Scoria 17 Freeway 
feeder 18 Extend 19 Hot spot 20 Sprat 22 Refer (to) 24 Try to 
sacrifice 25Cheesa 26 Sturgeon 29 Scholarly 
In a way 33 Worship 34 "Bolero" 
composer 35 Sp. queen 36 Carol 37 Odorous 36 Swing loosely 39 -du Dlable 40 Split 41 Grand e.g. 42 Mythical dog 44 Rabbit lair 45 Cry 46 Gaelic 47 Usher In 50 Compel 54 Eng. river 55 Musketeer 57 Central line 58 "Ars longa, 
-brevis" 59 Damp 60 Bank deal 61 Building 
wings 
62 Europeans 63 A Gardner 
DOWN 1 Stinging remark 
2 Glacial 
deposits 3 "--Tough" 4 Royal Ger. 
family 5Dock 6 Catkin 

01987 Tribune Media Sefvlcea. Inc. All Rights R8MfVad 
7 Novelist 
Erica 8 Huzzah! 9 Gave money 
for merit 10 Split 11 Talk wildly 12 Affirm 13 Desire 21 Sled 23 Usa a phone 25 Br.labor 
leader 26 Essantlal 

27 Roman 
official 28 Hermit 29 Heads 30 Membranous 31 Vacuous 32 Fowl food 34 Accelerate 
sharply 37 Methane 36 Store event 40Stagger 41 Bridge bid 

43 Masters In Air. 44 Remove• by 
forca 46 Eaten away 470wn 48 Pernicious 49 Moslem weight 50 Foster or 
Harris 51 Roman spousa 52 Iran money 53 Slave of old 56 In addition 

--~-----~-----­
Tuesday, February 17, 1987 -page 12 

Hicks, Royal spur ND to 15th win; Bailey's 30 not enough for Wagner 
By MARTY STRASEN We just wanted to go out, play groove. Fredrick off the bench Assistant Sports Editor hard and win -that was our mo­gives us some added tive." firepower." 
A flashy guard from New Jer­The 6-2 Bailey received one Hicks and forward Donald sey put on a dazzling display of of the larger cheers of the eve­Royal led the Irish with 16 dribbling, driving and dunking ning from a much-depleted stu­points apiece, while Rivers to keep his team close for much dent section of the ACC after a scored 15 (11 in the second half) of Monday night's college bas­first-half tomahawk dunk, on and forward Mark Stevenson ketball game at the ACC. which most of his upper body added 13. Fredrick hit on three­
No, he is not 6-feet tall, he is towered above the rim. of-six for six points. not from Jersey City, his num­He scored 30 points on the A six-point Notre Dame spurt ber is not four and his name is evening, for the lOth time this at the end of the first half gave not David Rivers. season and 29th time of his the Irish a 35-27lead at the mid­
All he claims to be is the na­career. And t~y came in all way point, and a key series in tion's top scorer in 1985-86 with forms -from dunks to three­the second half put it out of
.­
an average of better than 29 point field goals to circus shots Wagner's reach. points per game, the fourth­in the open court. With Notre Dame on top by leading scorer in the country But even the sparkling play nine at 49-40 after a Rivers' this year at 28.3 per contest and of Bailey could not stop the 15-7 alley-oop pass to freshman a probable early-round NBA Irish, who put four players in Scott Paddock (seven draft choice after this, his double figures and never rebounds) for a dunk, Baileysenior year. trailed in the game. In fact, it had the ball bounce off the ref­
His name is Terrance Bailey, looked like a blowout when a eree's foot and lost control on he hails from Trenton, and his Rivers-to-Royal alley-oop dunk what would have been a sure supporting cast at Wagner did highlighted a spurt which gave slam. its best to stay close to Notre Notre Dame a 12-1 lead in the Fredrick then hit a jumper Dame, but eventually bowed first five minutes of the game. off a feed from Rivers to put out, 74-54, to the Irish. With 15:45 remaining in the the Irish up by 11, and they built 
The victory was Notre half, however, Rivers picked a 13-point lead when Rivers Dame's second in as many up his second personal foul and took advantage of an Andre days, after a Sunday upset of stayed on the bench until the Van Drost offensive foul with a then 15th-ranked Duke. second half. Then the foul-line jump shot on the en­
"Bailey is a very talented Seahawks made their move, suing possession. The athlete," said Irish head coach and even tied the game twice Seahawks never got within 13 Digger Phelps. "He has a good before the intermission. from that point on. chance to go first or second · "I took Rivers out because "We were a little tired and a round in the NBA. he had two fouls and because little flat after (Sunday)," 
"We weren't as concerned of a slight groin pull," Phelps Phelps said. "But I thought we about him as much as we were said. "But Joe Fredrick im­had a chance to play some about ourselves, though. You pressed me again and Scotty can't just prepare for one guy. (Hicks) has really found a see CHANCE, page 10 

The Observer/Greg Kohs 
Donald Royal, shown here scoring two of his 16 points last night, went 6-for-8 from the field in Notre Dame's 74-54 win. 
Battered men's tennis team rolls to undefeated weekend 
By GREG ANDRES underneath the bandages The team's top gun, Brian combining with Kalbas for two aware of the much tougher Sports Writer keeping his team together. At Kalbas, on the road to doubles victories and with competition that lies ahead this the awards banquet after three recovery, may have pushed too junior Sean O'Brien for a third. weekend. 
The Notre Dame Men's Ten­consecutive 9-0 drubbings far. Kalbas was ready for two At the number one and two Freshman Mike Wallace nis Team has kept the blood against Marquette, Bradley of the three main events of the spots, sophomores Tim Carr remained undefeated in singles pumping despite damage to its and Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Fallon weekend. Against Marquette and Dave Reiter combined for this winter, starting off the major arteries. But the Band­seemed to think everything he crusied to a 6-3,6-3 victory a third of the total victories. weekend with a 6-1, 6-0 win at Aids and surgical tools of was hunky-dory. and went on to blank Pedro Each had three singles wins Marquette. Coach Tom Fallon have held And well it may be, if Notre Velez of Bradley, 6-0,6-0. He and combined at first doubles Fallon, fighting with only the team together -so far. Dame's reserves continue to also combined with Junior Paul for an additional three. half an army, went looking 
Fallon and his troops play like regulars. And the Daggs for two doubles vic­"We are still not 100%," said down the bench and saw Dan 
traveled three hours for three regulars keep winning. tories. Reiter. "But if we could get to Walsh, Tom Grier and Sean 
days and three victories last But the stitches might not But a neck injury sustained a point where just one guy was O'Brien -the seventh, eighth, 
weekend. hold, and the problems haven't on Saturday restricted injured we would be okay be­and ninth men on the roster. 
Twenty-seven matches were gone away underneath. Sopho­Kalbas's Sunday fun. His cause Dan Walsh is really Fallon concedes that "the 
played, and twenty-seven vic­more Tony Kahill, Fallon's status for this weekend is ques­strong at number seven. But team is doing pretty well, but 
tories were recorded. Simple number three man, spent the tionable. with three players out it's its a good thing we have some 
enough. weekend in scenic South Bend Paul Daggs, the numtier five tough.' depth in Tom Grier and Sean 
The Wisconsin weekend for as the team traveled. Kahill player, has been limited with a Reiter credits the dominance O'Brien. It has helped quite a 
the Irish was, well, successful. probably won't play in this wrist injury. Daggs, however, of the Irish over the weekend 
see DEPTH, page 8

Fallon concealed his problems weekend's match. participated in the pillaging, to the weak opponents and is 
Irish sprint to seventh-place finish; Brown is impressive at Centrals 
By PETE GEGEN an eye-opening split of 47.4. The said. Piane. "They all ran Assistant Sports Editor Irish won their heat of the relay quality times. And we qualifiedand placed fifth overall. four more runners for the Junior sprinter Tim Brown "Tim Brown did a fine job," IC4A's in the distance med­
continued his fine running as said Head Coach Joe Piane. ley."the Irish indoor track team "His best race indoors is placed seventh in the 25-team definitely the 300, but unfortun­Dan Garrett just missed Central Collegiate Conference ately that race isn't run in the qualifying for the IC4A's in the championships over the NCAA Championships." two-mile run as he placedweekend. Piane was hoping to qualify fourth with a time of 9:00.05. 
Brown placed second in the his two-mile relay team for the And Glenn Watson finished 300-yard dash with a time of NCAA's. But for the second sixth in the 60-meter high
30.39. Unfortunately for Brown, straight week the relay did not hurdles with a time of 6.92. 
he did not run in the same heat run up to its standards and as eventual-winner Rod Tol­finished third in the 3200-meter Illinois won the meet with a bert of Illinois, who edged relay. score of 117.5, followed by Mic­Brown by just two-one The distance medley relay of higan (81), Eastern Michiganhundreths of a second. Robert Nobles, David Warth, (65), Illinois State (62), Wiscon­
Brown finished sixth in the Mike Rogan and Mike sin (48), Purdue (39), Notre The Observer 1 Robert Jones 60-meter dash with a time of O'Connor finished second to Dame (30), Western Michigan Sprinter Tim Brown paced the Notre Dame indoor track 
6.92. He also ran the first leg of Michigan with a time of 9:57.30. (27), Michigan State (20), and to a seventh-place finish in the 25-team Central Collegiate the 1600-meter relay, recording "All three relays ran well," Kent State (20). ference meet last weekend. 


