
SPECIAL OLYMPICS ISSUE ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 
The Official Publication of the International Summer Special Olympics Games 
Irish delegation wins country's first bball gold 
By TIM HEALY Observer Staff 
Competition for medals highlighted the fourth round of basketball Thursday. 
The Ireland delegation showed up in large numbers to see their team cap­ture its first gold medal in international competition. This division 5 battle began with the Ireland players swap­ping flags for pins with rival team Mic­higan \ · 
Ireland guard Trevor O'Connor took 
the opening tip-off from Christopher 
Walsh and pumped in a quick two points 
and Ireland never looked back. 
O'Connor, Walsh, and no. 5, Denis 
O'Gorman combined for 46 of the 
Irish's 54 total points. Most of their 
scoring came off second and third 
chances as they constantly dominated 
the boards. Their intimidating defense 
forced Michigan to shoot from the out­
side and it shut down their fast break. 
The Michigan silver medal perfor­
mance was lead by quick and scrappy 
guard Todd Devitt. Devitt, who lead all 
scorers with 17, was able to weave in 
and out of Ireland's reaching arms as 
he pushed the ball up to teammates 
Mario Martinez, Scott Goetz, and Jerald 
Holstine. However, their collective ef­
fort was not enough to overcome 
Ireland's size and strength. 
The Irish accepted their medal to a standing ovation after they sang and danced to "Here we go Irish". O'Gorman called their winning perfor­mance, "Brilliant." Forward Saul Borenstein added, "It's the best thing to happen to Irish basketball." 
California and Wisconsin faced each 
other for the bronze medal in Division 
2. Primarily a defensive contest, the game featured many rejections that resulted in fast break points. One such play occured when California's Jerome Taylor swatted away Wisconsin player Doug Wait's shot to Devain Campbell for an easy two. Wait made up for the embarrassment on the next play when he stole the ball and took it coast to coast for a lay-in. 
California had a nice performance by 5'6 guard Paul Jenkins. Jenkins had six steals and led the offense. On one trip down the court he was shouting out in­structions to his teammates, "Get out, get out". Then he decided to just let it fly from the perimeter over Wisconsin's George Kent. Plays like these helped his team coast to a 38-31 final. 
Trinidad!fobago took the bronze medal behind Ireland and Michigan by defeating Washington 54-40. Trinidad jumped out to a quick 21 point lead largely on the efforts of slippery Steve Samuel. Samuel poured in a game high 30 points and controlled the boards. 
Washington managed to come within 5 points near the end of the first half when Mike Lacey canned one from way out. Chuck Ventrella followed the next time down with a soft jumper off the glass. That's as close as they could get, though. 
see BBALL, page 10 There's always time for play during the Games. As the events wind down, the athletes have more free time to enjoy. 

The Observer!Wen Yi 

Week provides many pictures of heroes 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
Seven days of sharing. It all began with high expectations, miles of travel­ing, and a common cause. And since then, The VII International Summer Special Olympics Games has been a hit. 
The Opening Ceremonies, broadcast nationally over ABC-TV, allowed the nation to look in on the Special Olym­pics world. With national coverage, the plea of the mentally handicapped citizens was heard. 
After years of limitation, the achieve­ments of mentally retarded people are finally being applauded. ''Tonight, they cheer for you," Eunice Kennedy Shriver told the athletes. "You are the stars and the world is watching you." 
But the world caught only one small glimpse of Special Olympics. Amid the celebrities, color, and extravaganza, were individual Olympians; heroes who had the courage to do their best. The medals and the awards have been issued. But the accomplishments and the memories continue to grow. 
Strolling through Olympic Town, trading pins, and mingling with celebrities were the highlights of the week. But the favorite memories are of the caring people who came so far away, and who have donated so many hours for the Special Olympics cause. 
The world is witness to the "courage, skill, sharing, joy" of the Special Olym­pians. The Games have set the pace for a new appreciation and understanding of mentally handicapped people. With this precedent having been set, the door is open for further achievement. 
As the Games come to a close, nations are being brought closer together through the purest form of sport. Lan­guages, lifestyles and beliefs set aside, the athletes and their supporters have come to realize how much they have in common. 

Softball competition closes 
By MARY HOWENSTINE Observer Staff 
Softball team competition ended 
Thursday as finalists competed in one 
of six divisions for gold, silver and 
bronze medals. · 
Kansas' Charles Atkins homered 
early in their game against California 
knocking the softball out of Field 1 at 
Stepan Field, and across Olympic 
Road. 
The Division 4 teams kept within one run of one another until the top of the sixth inning when Kansas scored two runs, opening up a three run lead. 
California held Kansas scoreless at the top of the seventh inning and scored one run in the bottom of the seventh to make for an exciting finish. Kansas held on with some tough defense and finally edged past Cali­fornia 14-12 to win the gold medal. 
"I did the job I had to do," said Connecticut pitcher Tony Lombardi whose team defeated New York 20-9 for the Division 5 championship. "I've got the best coach I ever had," he said of his coach, Bob Tayler. 
Tayler, whose players doused him with a huge bucket of ice water after their victory said of Lombardi, ''Tony gets pumped up and "Goose" (Tony) always keeps us in the ballgame by throwing strikes.'" 
Tennesee held on to defeat Pennsyl­vania 18-12 for the Division 2 champi­onship although Pennsylvania rallied late in the game, racking up four runs in the top of the fifth and driving in three runs during their final at bat. Brian Eiselman, Pennsylvania's right fielder made a nearly impossible catch of a fly ball in deep foul terri­tory. 
Other Thursday softball action in­cluded Illinois' victory over Maryland 15-5 in five innings to earn the bronze medal in Division 2. 
Illinois drove in five runs in the second inning and scored eight runs in the third inning to hold and main­tain their lead. Rick Nuckols of Illinois hit two home runs. Maryland catcher David Schaffer made a spectacular play at home plate, tagging out a base runner after snagging a ball thrown in from left field. 

In Division 6 championship play, Wyoming captured the gold by defeat­ing Minnesota, 15-4. Colorado won against New Jersey 20-5 for the Divi­sion 3 gold. 
Host team Indiana earned a bronze medal in Division 3 competition. 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 2 
_$.> ..... 

Aquatics 7:30 a.m. -8:30a.m. Head Coaches Meeting 9:00a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Finals 50m Breaststroke 4 x 25m Freestyle Relay 25m Butterfly lOOm Freestyle 

alhieiiCS 
urack & heidi 
Athletics 

8:00a.m. -8:30a.m. Coaches Meeting Castro­turf) 
Finals 9:30a.m. -11:00 a.m. 400m (Pentathalon) 
10:30 a.m. -11:30 a.m. 2km Walk (Jake Klein Field) 
11:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 4 x lOOm Relay 
f
baskelball 

Basketball 8:30a.m. -12:30 p.m. Team Competition -ACC 1 Arena 
11:00 a.m. 1 Final Game -ACC Arena 
8:30a.m.-5:00p.m. Team Competition -ACC Auxiliary Gym 

gymnaslrcs 
Gymnastics 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Coaches Meeting -Intro of new compulsories 

--7'---: 
roller skaling 
Roller Skating 
8:00 a.m. Volunteer Check In 
9:00a.m. -10:00 a.m. Clinic 
10:00 a.m. Celebrity/Amateur Relay Contest 
11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. Clinics 
1:00 p.m. Session Over, Breakdown Site 

Clinics 
Team Handball (open) Saint Mary's Field 
10:30 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 1:30 p.m.-2:15p.m. 

Racquetball (athletes only) ACC Racquetball Courts 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. 

Athletics ( athleteslcoaches) Cartier Field 
10:30 a.m. -11:00 p.m. 
Rollerskating (Open) 
Stepen Center 
9:00a.m. -10:00 a.m. 
10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. 
11:00 a.m.-noon noon-1:00 p.m. 

® 
Circular Zoneball St. Mary's Field 
Training Clinic (Athletes) 8:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Exhibition Game 
9:00p.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Question!Answer Session (Open) 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 
Instructional Clinic (StafWublic) 4:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
Exhibition Game 
6:00p.m.-7:00p.m. 
Gymnastics ACC Fieldhouse New Compulsories (Coaches) 
10:00 a.m. -noon 
}. 
Volleyball Angela Athletic Facility Special Olympic Exibition 9:30a.m. -10:00 a.m. 


The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 3 
Twin gymnasts set and achieve high goals together 
By JIM RYAN and "They're very independent," their most memorable parts of the Games Mrs. McGray is impressed with the mother added. "Their favorite phrase has been meeting the celebrities. They Special Olympics cause. "It's done
KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff this week has been 'Take my mother, both love watching reruns of wonders. It's improved the health of 
please.' It's not that they don't want "Bewitched" and "The Brady Bunch." the athletes, it's given them pride in 
David and Michael McGray are a me here, it's just that they like doing So when they met actress Maureen themselves and it has allowed them to team. They both love swimming, things on their own. They make their McCormick, formerly Marcia Brady, set goals and work to achieve those "Brady Bunch" reruns and The own goals and work to achieve them." and actor Dick Sargent, who played goals." Monkees. But their greatest team effort Michael has a fascination for news. Darren Stevens on the "Bewitched" se­After a week of intense competition, is the constant high goals they have set He watches the broadcasts each day ries, they were ecstatic. "Marcia David and Michael are looking forward and their remarkable means of achiev­and he can even recite the names of Brady looked sexy and gorgeous," to going home to a special "Welcome 
ing those goals. the producers and writers. He not only David said. The athletes also met gym­Home" bash. But before then, they're 
The twins, gymnasts from the Mas­reads newspapers and magazines, but nast Peter Vidmar, who introduced going to relax. "We had a great time, sachusetts delegation, have been in­he transcribes them, page after page. them as "his buddies" at a recent but we're glad we're finished. We need volved in Special Olympics since they Mrs. McGray had wanted her sons to clinic. a rest." were eight years old. They competed learn how to type for a long time, but in swimming and track and field as is the case with many handicapped events. But this is the first time that people, they were discouraged by those the athletes were able to compete in an who told them they couldn't type be­event where they could both be win­cause they are mentally handicapped. ners. David and Michael never let any of 
They are mirror twins. David is left­these limitations stop them. They kept handed and Michael is right-handed. working at their typing until they were They even complement each other in able to type 80 words a minute. Since their gymnastics performances. David they started typing three years ago, earned a silver medal in vaulting and they have typed everything in sight, in­a bronze in floor exercises. Michael cluding entire magazines and won fifth place in vaulting and a silver newspapers. "I like to write and I like medal in floor exercises. to talk," Michael said. "I want to be a 
"We're both celebrities, we're super­reporter someday.'' stars," said David. But it isn't the The McGray twins are part of a fam­medals that made them stars. It is the ily of nine children. They have always belief in themselves and their outgoing worked as a team. Their brothers, personalities that make them stand out. sisters, mother and nephew came out 
When they are back in their to cheer them on. "Since last August," hometown of Boston, David and Mi­Mrs. McGray said. "We've been living chael keep themselves busy listening in the car and eating fast food because to Lionel Richie, typing pages from they've been practicing their gymnas­sports magazines and spending nights tics so much." on the town dancing. "They're very But the McGrays would agree that good dancers," said their mother, all of their hard work has payed off. Carolyn McGray. "The Games have been unbelievable," 
"We went to our senior prom at said Mrs. McGray. "We've met so Peabody High School," added David. many people who care so much about "I took my girlfriend, Teri Duff, and each other. We'll never forget all of the Michael took a friend that's a girl. We wonderful experiences we've had." drove in a limo and stayed out really For David and Michael, one of the late." As the events come to a close, athletes, volunteers, and friends take time out to 
enjoy each other's company. 
Discover the World of Fraternalism 


What is United Commercial Travelers of America? 
UCT is a non-profit fraternal benefit society founded in 1888 for the purpose ofproviding accident benefits for traveling salesmen, protecting the human rights ofits members, aiding those dependent upon them and elevating the moral and social standing of its members 
across North America. Today, UCT's 160,000 members work in a variety of professions and come from diverse backgrounds. 
•Scholarship Programs •A Proud Sponsor of Special Olympics •International .Junior Golf 
For Additional Information Contact David Corey-832 N. Park St. Columbus, OH 432151 11800184810123 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-----~---~­


Panama takes volleyball

By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 

Gold-medal volleyball action be­tween Panama and Tennessee was the highlight of the tournament Thursday night. 
Panama defeated Tennessee in two games, 15-6 and 15-8 to win the gold medal. 
In the first game Panama used a pa­tient attack to keep control of the game. 
Continual soft sets over the net by 
Tennessee allowed Panama's to set up 
for several kills. 

As Tennessee continued to make ball handling errors Panama increased its momentum. 
As the enthusiasm of the Panamanian spectators increased, the team acted with flawless power hitting and stragetic soft sets, forcing the Ten­nessee players to move quickly. 

Panama dominated at game point. Refusing to give up, Tennessee hit a cross court spike to get control of the ball. 
Edmundo Baptista reponded by hit­
The Observeri.Jim Carroll 
ting a hard cross court spike to help
A Hawaiian olympian phones home at At&T's phone booth in Olympic Town. 
Panama regain the serve. At game
Athletes were able to call anywhere in the world for free. 
point again, Panama lobbed a ace serve to take the first game, 15-6. 
Game Two provided much more hard hitting and exciting action between the two teams. 
Serving and ball handling errors on the part of both teams contributed to the slow start of the game. 
As the game progressed Tennessee continued to hustle after every ball, but the Panamanian attack was too strong. 
Finally, when Tennessee began to capitalize on Panamas errors it was too late. 
The lead increased behind the hard hitting attack of star player Baptista. 
From that point on in the game, Panama dominated play with consis­tent serving and excellent setting. 
After match point, the Panamain team broke out in wild celebration as they ran around the court lead by the countries flag. 
Panama was presented the gold medal as they raised their arms in joyous victory. 
"Volleyball was probably the most excellent event to see International and American athletes compete against one another,'' said Ruth Nelson, head coach of the Dallas Belles. 

Gold medals captured in final soccer round action 
By LIZ PANZICA Observer Staff 

Soccer play concluded with the medal rounds in all divisions Thursday. 
In Division A action, Chile shutout Brazil 4-0 to capture the gold. El Sal­vador received the bronze after defeat­ing Ireland 5-l. 
The United Kingdom team, com­posed of players from Britain, Wales and Scotland, rallied to win the gold by beating Columbia 2-1 in Division B play. Korea narrowly edged Kenya for the bronze by a score of 2-1. 
Louisiana took the bronze after beating Canada 4-1 in Division C. A skilled Australian team trounced the California team 9-1 for the gold in that division. 
At the Division D level Texas swept past Japan 10-2 to earn the bronze. 
For the gold in Division E, Hong Kong shut out Tennessee 9-0. Pennsylvania took the bronze by defeating Arkansas 
3-1. 

In Division F action, Florida edged out Idaho 2-1 for the gold. Iowa beat Hawaii for the bronze medal 3-1. 
Despite a resounding loss to Hong Kong, the Tennessee delegation was pleased with the team's success in cap­turing the silver. A Tennessee delegate said, "Hong Kong is just a well condi­tioned team. They jog every morning, and they have good foot skills. 
"They are a well-disciplined team, and they don't get worried," he contin­ued. "They stay calm and cool." 
The Colombia and United Kingdom match pitted strength and power against quickness and agility. The small, quick Colombians fought valaintly but nonetheless were over­come by a bigger and stronger United Kingdom team. 
The close match between Idaho and Florida proved to be an exciting Divi­sion F game. Florida scored the lone goal of the first half, but Idaho quickly evened the match in the second half. Frank Turner, a Florida team stan­dout, retaliated with a second goal and Florida goalie Denise Sturgis secured the victory with some exceptional saves. 

To everyone who goes the distance everyday, AT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates salutes you! 
AT&T is proud to be asponsor of the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games. And we'll continue to support the year-round efforts of Special Olympics with a contribution for every $25 gift pack ofAT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates ATs.T purchased. To order, calll 800 GIFT ATT. The right choice. 

©1987 AT&T 

The Observer  ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 4  

The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 5 

Dillon planned Games for over two years 
By KIM YURATOVAC Observer Staff 
While the VII International Summer Special Olympics Games was still a dream in the minds of its spectators, it was a full-time job for Director of­Games Operations Tim Dillon. 
Dillon, who had previously served as Associate Director of Athletics at Saint Mary's College, has been planning the Games for the last two and a half years. 
"I had to coordinate 24 different areas for the Games," said Dillon. "My associates and I had to plan all sports, computers, housing, food, facilities and registration. It has been a full-time job for the last two and a half years, and for the past couple of months we've worked 18 hour days." 
Dillon is pleased with the success of his detailed planning. "When we started working on the Games, there were no directives," he said. "Since then, I've written an operations manual. Hopefully, this can help the planners of the 1991 Intern.:tional Sum­mer Special Olympics." 
The Summer Games are held every four years. The host of 1991's Games has not yet been determined. 
"We've made remarkable progress on this year's Games," Dillon contin­ued. "It is the largest athletU! event in the world this year. Special Olympics will never be the same again. The na­tional coverage of the Opening Ceremonies, the funding, and the way things have been conducted has changed the format of the Games." 
Dillon credits a talented staff and willing volunteers with helping to make his ideas work. "The South Bend com­munity and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have done outstanding jobs," he said. "They won't do anything that isn't first class. We've had more chap­ters and countries ask if they could pur­chase a copy of our operator's manual. That's a real compliment to me." 
Two and a half months of 18 hour days is bound to breed many problems, but Dillon and his staff have been lucky. The most severe dilemma they have faced so far has been the delay of some tennis balls they had ordered. 
The intensity of the summer heat was a concern of the ISSOG planning com­mittee. They never anticipated the severity of the heatwave that plagued the area last weekend. But they were prepared for it anyway. Victims of heatstroke were treated by First Aid volunteers, and ice and water were brought to game sites in large quanti­ties. 
"Our job now is to doublecheck and triplecheck," said Dillon. "Because we did such good planning, things have been running smoothly." 
Dillon is pleased with the success of his project. "Seeing the smiles on the faces of volunteers and athletes at the Opening Ceremonies Monday night made it all worthwhile," he explained. "I'm here for the athletes. I want to make sure we give them the best we possibly can." 
"After all those years of being told they weren't capable of achieving, I'm glad mentally handicapped people are now given the chance to prove them­selves," concluded Dillon. "I'm happy to have been a part of that process." 



~-~~-~ ~ ---~­
ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 6 
t The Observer 

Equestrian athletes do not horse around 

Halla 

Hello 

By ANDREA ROGERS Observer Staff 
One of the most successful events at the 7th International Summer Special Olympics Games is the equestrian pro­gram staged on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Athough it is still a demonstration sport at this point, horses and riders will no doubt be a regular part of the Games in the future. 
"I think we are going to see the quality of riding improving and the level of competition rising higher and higher," stated one trainer at a Wed­nesday afternoon coaches' meeting. For the most part everyone was pleased with the organization of the whole venue, particularly because it is on a trial basis this year. 
Each rider had to go through several steps before the competition on Mon­day. On Saturday the athletes began by trying out the horses to get accustomed to them before Sunday's rounds, when they were classified into three groups. The next three days were spent com­peting in the unusual heat and humidity and the entire event culminated in a procession and awards ceremony. 
All the horses were donated by local owners and screened by the Special Olympics equestrian staff. They were all especially gentle, patient and responsive. Each rider was assigned a horse which was suited to him. "I never thought it would be this good," com­mented one coach in reference to the w.atching of animal to athlete. 
Maria Rogers, a local16-year-old who volunteered as a groom, said she felt everything was planned out well and that this was an important factor in how smoothly the whole program ran. 
Rogers said that during the hottest days the grooms had to periodically record the amount of water the horses drank and post it on a chart outside the stalls. Some of the animals were be­coming dehydrated, but the large fans breezing air through the canvas barn and the particular care taken in cooling down the horses kept them in good con­dition. 
Because of their involvement in Reins of Life, an organization that teaches young people with all types of handicaps to ride and care for horses, Rogers and other volunteers knew how to work with the animals and athletes. 

Rogers was in charge of Silky, who was ridden by 25-year-old Jeff Cham­bers from Elko, Nevada. She said one of the nicest things about the Games was to see Chambers' self-esteem rise when he finished the competitions with a first place medal after already re­ceiving a third and fourth. 
Chambers has been riding during the 
Continuing volleyball action exciting 
By JUDY MOLNAR Observer Staff 

Thursday afternoon's volleyball ac­tion featured some exciting gold medal round action. 
The three matches in consolation play were for fifth place in the teams' respective divisions. 
Consolation play began with Trinidad defeating Rhode Island in two games 15-7 and 15-9. 
In Division III play, Oregon had to play three games to finally defeat North Carolina. Oregon played a dom­inant first game, winning 15-0. 
North Carolina came back strong in the second game to win 15-7. But Oregon regained composure to win 15-13 in a close third game. 

summer for the last ten years near the 
group home he lives in. He was. selected 
to compete at these Games by the state 
special olympics director on the basis 
of the number of medals he had won. 
Chambers' coach, Mary Branscomb, 
is the founder of Ruby Mountain Riding 
for the Handicapped and provides 
facilities for the weekly four hour 
classes which have been going on for 
the past 11 years. The horses are 
donated by local 4-H members every -weekend from May through October. 
One of Branscomb's goals is to help 
the handicapped gain confidence and 
new abilities. "We try to help them 
live," she said. 

Branscomb described Jeff Chambers 
as very easily discouraged and needing 
emotional encouragement. She said she 
hopes his success this week will carry 
over into his daily life and he will con­
tinue to ride. "He enjoys it. It's really 
In Division V play, Georgia had few problems defeating Virginia in two games, 15-2 and 15-11. 
Gold medal play continued with Chile defeating Belgium 15-2 and 15-0. There were only three teams involved in the female division, but the Chilean team dominated every match. 
In other play, California defeated Arizona, 15-2 and 15-13 to win the gold medal. California was undefeated in round-robin play and continued to dom­inate right up to the final championship match. 
Louisiana had no problem defeating Florida, 15-0 and 15-9 to win the gold medal in Division IV. 
In the midwest clash between Ohio and Kansas, two quick games were played, as Kansas won 15-10 and 15-6 to capture the gold medal. 
good for him. He needs to do it," she said. 
Branscomb, who is also a reporter for the local daily newspaper, stated, "Horses have been my life. I've been riding forever." She knows horses well and is very good at teaching the riders how to handle them. She was able to get Chambers over his initial anxieties of working with an unknown horse in the two short days they had to prepare. She even rode the horses herself in or­der to know what the competitors were dealing with. 
A great deal of credit must also go to the local owners who donated their animals and often their time. Silky, Chambers' horse, is owned by Kathy and George Lanphere of Granger, In­diana. Their generosity, and that of every other volunteer, has made a dif­ference in an athlete's life, and that's what the Olympics are all about. 
The match between West Virginia and Pennsylvania for the gold in Divi­sion II found Pennsylvania winning the first game easily, 15-2. Pennsylvania continued to look strong, winning 15-8 to take first place and the gold medal. 
Today a volleyball clinic will be held from 9:30 a.m. to 10 a.m. and will in­clude an exhibition game. Former Olympic players Rose Major Powell and Jeanne Beaupery as well as Claudia Lee, former player from the Dallas Belles will participate. 
The guest players will play 15 minute games against the female teams from Chile and Belgium. 
Following the game the guest players will conduct a spiking and passing demonstration at 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
The clinics are open to the public. 

Lo'i Dung de chao 
Member FDIC 


ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 7 



Puerto Rico wins softball 
By MARY HOWENSTINE Observer Staff 
Kenneth Kaiser, an umpire for the Division 1 softball championship game, expected to see a terrific competitive event between Puerto Rico and Mis­souri Thursday night at Stepan Field. 
"I've been surprised at the level of play I've seen," said Kaiser. "In a pre­liminary game, a hitter knocked the cover off the ball. I'm expecting to see a super game." 
Kaiser was not far off the mark as Puerto Rico narrowly edged by Mis­souri 12-11 to capture the gold medal. Puerto Rico used a shifting defense to successfully combat the well prepared Missouri offense. They held Missouri to five runs until the top of the seventh inning when they gave up six runs. 
The momentary lapse in defense was due mainly to the fact that the Puerto Rican team regularly plays fast pitch softball and the Special Olympics softball competition was slow pitch. 
Missouri made double plays between second and first bases, and second and third bases, leaving runners stranded to end the first and third innings. 
Missouri silver medalist Bob Townlain, who plays second base said, "We didn't start off like we should have." Danny Bottoms, the Missouri shortstop involved in several close plays, commented that he was "happy with the silver medal." 
Left fielder Bob Bittle was kept busy on the diamond as the Puerto Rican team hit consistently in his area. "The Puerto Ricans kept me busy." Bittle was happy but "surprised" that Mis­souri was able to stage a near com­eback. 
"I think it's all great," right fielder Jeff Kester added. "This is my first tiJlle here. I hope I get another oppor­tunit to come back." 
't
"­
~. 
t .TI\'. 
' :~:~~t~-:.~"::. ''" . 
.•' ;~~~~;:·; '~. 
-lt' ""' •• !' 

The Observer;Jim Carroll A Hawaiian olympian phones home at At&T's phone booth in Olympic Town. Athletes ·were able to call anywhere in the world for free. 
Home number Olympics dead ringer 
By SUSAN MULLEN Observer Staff 
Margaret Nicholas of South Bend is probably one of the few people who is glad to see the Games come to an end. 
For the past nine months, the Nic­holas household has been bombarded with misinformed phone callers seeking information about some aspect of the Games. 
The Nicholas' phone number is one digit different from the Special Olym­pics general information number. 
Nicholas has remained remarkably patient and courteous to callers -even those who have mis-dialed as early as 5 a.m. and as late as 11 p.m. 
"Most everyone who calls and realizes they've dialed the wrong num­ber is very courteous. They usually say 'I'm so sorry to have disturbed you,' " explains Nicholas. 
Nicholas tells of one caller, though, who didn't seem to understand that she had dialed the wrong number. "She just kept repeating that she needed to get in touch with the Radio Control room. She just didn't want to get off the phone," recalls Nicholas. 
Nicholas explains that the calls have been less frequent since the Games got underway earlier in the week. But prior to the opening, she would receive as many as three calls before she left for work in the morning and continuous calls throughout the evening after she got home. 

Nicholas says that she had planned on volunteering for ISSOG, but was late returning her volunteer form. 
~~~·F 


~ERdESi... " 



R 
POR HEROES 
The Official Theme Music of the 1987 lnter:national Summer Special Olympic Games featuring 

Vietnam Veterans of Elkhart County Super Sounds World Records Record Connection Tracks Musicland Camelot Notre Dame Souvenir Stands Hall of Cards & Books 
Net proceeds go to the 1987 ISSOC, Inc. 

Logan Center ADEC Bookworm Kroger's Jamison Inn Morris Inn Budgeteer Howard Johnson's Marriott Ramada Inn 
Available On e12' Record ecassette Tape ecompact Disc 

----~-----------­

-~ 
-
-
-•.·-~ I. • 
~­

,-­
~­
r 
-
-
.. 
The Observer 
Civitan now well-known 



The Observer/Joann Whitfield Civitan volunteers, dressed in their familiar red and white uniforms, help to award medals to event winners. 
By KEVIN BECKER Observer Staff 
If Civitan was "the-largest sponsor of International Special Olympics you never heard of..." before the Games, it is almost certain that they are more well-known now. 
Possibly the most visible of sponsors throughout the Olympics sights, Civitan has donated over $1.6 million and over 1,200 volunteers to the Inter­national Special Olympics Games this summer. Clad in their red pants and Civitan shirts, the volunteers have canvased the Olympics sights, selling programs, handing the Olympians awards, and helping out in many other capacities. 
The "red and white army of Civitan volunteers," as the group is referred to by Lisa Harrison, director of public re­lations for the organization, are here of their own accord. 
"There was really no pressure put on our members to raise the funds or 
Bball 
continued from page 1 
Trinidad managed to pull away in the second half on fast break points from tiny Ann Marie Burgess. Burgess, only 5'3 and 91 pounds, was the crowd favor­ite as she popped in shots from 12 and 15 feet. 
In other basketball action yesterday Louisiana's women team beat In­diana's girls 36-32 for the gold. Texas captured the bronze medal in that divi­sion by defeating Florida 28-18. 
Close games were the order of the day in men's Division 1 play. Panama upset number 1 seed North Carolina 69­67 to advance to the finals. Similarly, Virginia brought down no. 2 seed Ala­bama by one point, 59-58. 
volunteer; it was a voluntary effort," said John Rynearson, Civitan executive vice-president. 
Despite the completely pressure-free drive for support of Special Olympics, the Civitans managed to raise nearly $500 per member in some of their clubs. The gifts from these clubs allowed the group to pledge up to half of the budget for the summer Games budget. 
"Because of our early commitment, the committee could bid for the Games to be in South Bend," said Harrison. 
Civitan was confident that as a group, the members would be able to provide this major source of funds for Special Olympics because of its overall dedica­tion to serving the handicapped and the sheer energy of the Civitans. 
"For the 1983 Games in Baton Rouge, we were targeted to raise $250,000 and wound up donating over $600,000. We figured that with an organized effort we would be able to double that without a problem," said Rynearson. 
Competing in the most intense Divi­sion 1 game yesterday, was Illinois and Florida. Fans at this contest were en­tertained and impressed by the abilities of no. 15, Ervin Locke. Locke's first name could just as easily be Erving instead of Ervin --Erving as in "Dr. J," that is. Locke, who matched dunks with Spud Webb at Wednesday night's Sport's Spectacular, managed to pour in 47 points as Illinois survived Florida 78-75. 
The game was close from the opening tip-off. Locke dominated Illinois' attack as he skied on the boards, dished off passes, and rejected Florida attempts. Locke had great back court help from teammates Jake Coats, Pat Quinn, and Joe Johnson. 
Florida held close and even had the lead,38-34 with 2:25 to go in the first half. Then Florida forward Lonnie 
--~-----~--..., 
ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 10 
Johnson stuck his arm out and collided hard with Illinois' Joe Johnson. Johnson was down for several minutes and after the recess Locke came out with a ven­geance and stormed in three shots in a row. 
It didn't take long for Florida to come back,though, and they managed to deadlock the match at 40 all when Smith banked in a shot with 35 seconds to go. 
The second half remained close as the score was tied at 51, 53, 55, 57, and 
59. Then Locke and his teammates began to pull away. On one string of baskets, Locke took the ball off a rebound, pounded down the court, spun once at mid-court, spun again at the top of the key, then glided across the middle, hung in the air for about 2 seconds, and iced his jumper. 
His play of the game and perhaps the 
game clincher came with 2:51 to go. Locke fa~ed once, then took the baseline, drove near the hoop, jumped and cuffed the ball on his arm and did a "Michael Jordan." 
He pumped twice, then sailed under­neath the goal and spun it off the glass. The crowd erupted as the ball found the net. 
Florida never quit and managed to pull within 5 with two minutes to go. They couldn't narrow it down any more, though, until Willie Smith nailed a three-pointer at the buzzer to cap off his 38 point effort and end the game 78-75. 
Todays action is sure to be exciting when North Carolina faces Alabama at 9:30a.m. in the ACC Pit for the bronze. Following that game Panama will run against Virginia for the gold medal at 11 a.m. on the ACC main arena floor. 

Athletic Supply Bergman Luggage Brittania Cheney Foundation Clipped Wings Colo res Elgin-Syferd First Interstate Bank Foundation Frederick & Nelson (Men's Division) Generra Heat Sportswear Knights of Columbus Marriott Catering Marriott Hotel Northwest Orient Airlines Pacific Lutheran University Pacific Trails Safari Safeway San Mar Seattle 4-H Club Seattle Mariners Baseball Club Seattle Supersonics Tacoma Tigers Baseball Club 
. ~ :::~~;~~~£r::r

•~-:j} Veterans of Foreign Wars 
~
§pec_liJI 
Dlyrn~ 

WASHINGTON SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
15056-15th Avenue NE ~~ Seattle, Washington 98155 (206) 362-4949 
...----------------------­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987-page 11 
Halderman achieves 3 golds 
By TIM HEALY Observer Staff 
Berlin Halderman held his hands high in victory as the Olympic theme played in the background. 
Halderman had just won the 30m wheelchair slalom race and the third of his four gold medals. He also won the wheelchair shot-put event as well as the lOOm and 25m wheelchair races. 
Halderman is both overjoyed and suprised that he has done so well. "When I got in the car to leave for the Games I told my mother that I'd be very proud if I could even win a bronze," said the 38 year-old athlete. 
"I knew I was fast, but I didn't know I was fast enough to win three gold medals in international competition," he continued. 
Coach, Dennis Bane, calls Halder­man II a hard worker that is more than dedicated to Special Olympics. He is dedicated to everything that he does." 
Coach Bane continued, explaining how he got Halderman to first get in­volved, "I was the floor supervisor at the Hardie County Workshop; it took me about two months to get Berlin to even come. He used to stay home a lot. He was a homebody." 
Halderman has come a long way since that day five years ago. He has become more and more involved and open. He worked at the Workshop until its recent closing, and now Berlin mows lawns using a specially equipped riding mower. He also enjoys hunting in the winter and caring for his vegetable gar­den in the summer. 
Halderman vows to continue compet­ing for as long as he can. "I've really had a great time here," he explained. "Rolling out (during opening ceremonies) was a thrill. It's someth­ing I've seen on TV but never experi­enced before. It was a feeling that can't be matched." 
Halderman was also amazed at the people he has met. He got a little choked up when he spoke about one couple that came to every one of his events, "There aren't many people that will do that, at least where I come from," he said. 
His coach insists that his participa­tion in Special Olympics has made the difference, "Berlin has really come out of his shell here at the ISSOG," said Bane. "Coming here, competing, and winning has really done a lot for his confidence. It's given him the courage to fly for the first time.", When Halder­man looks down at the speeding pave­ment as he takes off for home, he will be leaving behind more than a memory of four gold medals. 

Volunteers helping relieve attacks 
" t h fl . The Observer/Jim Carroll
A gymnast peraec s er oor exercise routme during yesterday's gymnastics finals. 
By BOB TYLER Observer Staff 
His breathing is labored. His heart pounds. The chest audibly wheezes. Fright reads across the sweating face. He can't get his breath! 
What's the story? Julian Lewiecki is describing a bronchospasm, an asthmatic reaction of the lungs. Air can come into the biforcating networks of the lung's tubes, but it cannot escape during exhalation. The airways are narrowed and tight. These are distress­ing, life threatening conditions. 
Lewiecki, a striking man in his thirty's, has been coming to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame ROTC building for the past week. He and his thin, red haired assistant, Susanne Froehle, are volunteering respiratory therapists from South Bend's Memorial Hospital. 
They are here at the Seventh Inter­national Special Olympics during the day for respiratory emergencies like asthma attacks. 
"With a physician's order, we can give asthmatic athletes aerosal treat­ments with drugs to dilate such air­ways," says Lewiecki. 
''Asthmatic reactions often unexpec­tedly occur at track and other athletic events," he adds. "We have been here and at trackside to help in such an event or any number of other emergencies." 
"And so far, our expertise hasn't been needed," adds Susanne Froehle. 
Froehle,  a  young  woman  in  her  
twenty's,  holds  an  Olympic  balloon.  
"This  is  for  a  kid  at  Memorial's  

pediatric unit," she snickers. 
She says the Special Olympics have been fun. She's seen many celebrities. The only therapy she's performed has been hugging athletes, hydrating them with fluids, and cooling them off with sprays of water. Fun times. 
"It's a nice break from the intensity of the hospital," she adds. Julian Lewiecki is currently a special 
projects manager at Memorial's Pulmonary Services. Although he sometimes misses his former teaching career, he's been happy with his over five year haul at the hospital. 
"Working as a respiratory therapist is a great job," says Lewiecki. "Saving lives and teaching people how to cope with their lung diseases is rewarding. I meet all sorts of interesting people, like the Special Olympian$ this week." 
Susanne Froehle just graduated res­piratory school. She's racking up expe­rience before becoming California bound. She has no regrets about her career. She just wants to learn more. 
Respiratory therapists perform lung treatments, establish artificial airways at respiratory and cardiac arrests, manage mechanical ventilators, test lung functions, and educate people about lung diseases. 
They also do volunteer work at Spe­cial Olympics functions. And they have fun. 
HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S A HERO. 

The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of the Special Olympics. We're proud of each of the heroic athletes who are participating in the Summer Games. 
The K of C helps out in lots of ways. We're coordinating the volunteer involvement of nearly 5,000 K of C members and their families ... contributing a quarter million dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... arranging housing in the South Bend area for athletes' families ... and recruiting more than 1,200 vol­unteers for the opening ceremonies of the '87 Games. We're also pleased to have provided the printing of 25,000 copies of a commemorative poster I by noted artist John L. Terelak. / 
The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic,' family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-:paying member.s worldwide. 
The Knights of Columbus works this hard because we believe volunteers make a big difference in the Games ... and the world. 
That's why the Knights' donated 21 million man-hours to community service and made $67 million worth of charitable disbursements last year.($11.3 million of that total benefitted programs for mentally 
retarded citizens.) 
It's why the Knights received the President's Volunteer Action Award from President Reagan for "Mobilization 
of Volunteers. " And it's why we're proud to be part of the Summer 
Games. 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 12 
Irish delegation's story deserves to be told 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
Observer Staff 
Aye, lad, when ye first packed yer bags and came to Notre Dame ye heard rumors of the leprechauns that abound on 'er fair campus. 
Ye heard of how they sprinkle sham­rocks on the lawns to keep 'em so green, as green as the Emerald Isle 'erself. 
And ye heard wondrous tales about the football legends who carved an im­pression as deep as the Connemara cliffs in the sports history of America. 
But there's one Notre Dame tale yet to be told: the story of the Ireland delegation of the VII International Summer Special Olympics Games. 
There's nothing to refute that the true Fightin' Irish have made their presence known here at last in the form of 95 athletes, coaches and officials. Outside the sporting context, however, the description of "fighting" is one that the Irish do not love. The name recalls the touchy topic of unrest in Northern Ireland. 
"When you consider the political sit­uation back home, where there's people gettin' shot, that's what we don't like about the name," said Bob Finn, an official with the delegation. 

"The stage Irishman is a brawler, a drunkard and a fighter," Finn said. "He's light years away from the real Irishman. When the Irishman fights for what he needs to achieve, as in ath­letics, then the fighting is alright." 
Hear ye then how the Irishmen saw gold to achieve, and how they fought for Thursday. The team dominated Michigan in a basketball brawl that ended with the Irish takin' home more gold medals that can fit in a rainbow's pot. 
Basketball, ye ask? Ireland? Accor­ding to Noel Parsons, assistant coach, roundball isn't new to the country. "Ireland has a couple of very good teams," he said. 
And that's just the start of it. Ireland has earned quite a few treasures during the Games. 

Seven golds, one bronze, and one sil­ver belong to the swimmers alone. "And after (today), they'll be more," added Marian Murphy, Irish aquatics coach. 
Bowling is another sport where the Irish have shown their spirit. Yvonne Ryan's team won the bronze in the day at the lanes. Ryan said she loves it here. "I'm not going back to Ireland," she said. 
Trevor O'Connor, Irish basketball guard, relaxed Thursday night after his team's win. He gave credit to the Mic­higan team for good play. "It was a fabulous game," he added. 
This good will on the part of the Irish athletes has been returned by the local folk and spectators, according to Dr. Mary Kent, the team's physician. She said the Irish have received a lot of attention, even affection. "I had to hold on to my garments," she said. "I was almost stripped naked!" 
Murphy said the swimming fans of the Irish have been tremendously sup­portive. "Some coaches from other teams cheered us," she said. "We're very popular." 
Murphy said all hosts have been "bursting at the seams with support." 1 "The cheering and the personal sup­port have been fabulous," said John Geary, one of the team's officials. He held a statuette that was a gift from one of Ireland's supporters. 
"Plus, the campus is fantastic," Geary added. "We've nothing like it in Ireland." 
While Geary said he admires the design and beauty the campus has to offer, swim coach Murphy marvels at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, where the water events have been held. "It's a smashing place," she said. "It's good for a warm-up." 
Kent, a pediatrician who works with mentally handicapped in Ireland, is en­joying her first experience with Special Olympics. She said she'll gladly come back if she's invited to work with the athletes again. "The team was mar­velous, they were most cooperative." 
Aye, lad, know you know the tale of the newest legends of Notre Dame. 
Olympics track action winds down on final day 
By PAT HANNON 
Observer Staff 
On the sixth day of the VII Interna­tional Summer Special Olympics Games, the action on the track ac­celerated as athletes competed in the final events. 
The day began with the lOOm walk in which Eric Thompson of Louisiana turned in the fastest time of 21.5 seconds while Maria Moore of Bar­bados broke the tape in 24.5 seconds to set the fastest time for the female com­petitors. 
Shortly afterwards, the 800 meter run yielded the fastest times of Jamie Cas­tillo with a 2: 12.8 and Hongei Zhang of China with a 2:46.7. 
In the high jump Edie Maria Saturino reached the height of 1 meter 24 cen­timeters. For the men, John Flannery glided over at a height of 1 meter 67 centimeters. 
Likewise, impressive performances were turned in the 100 meter dash as Fitzroy Deehan of Trinidad and Tobago clipped the wire in 11.4 seconds, and Maria Adaredecida Fibeiro of Brazil finished in 12.8 seconds. 
In the the co-ed 30 meter wheelchair slalom, Brian Good of the United States coasted to a victory in 13.1 seconds while the fastest time in the co-ed 50 meter wheelchair slalom was turned in by Jessie Kirksey, also from the U.S., at 33.8 seconds. 

In Wednesday's action, the men's 800 meter walk was won by lsmael Fer­reira in 4:08.1 while Elizabeth Laird won her heat with the fastest time of 4:53.5. 
Wednesday's results also yielded a 4 X 400 performance of 4:02.4 by the Cuban quartet of Rolando Cabellero, Jose Roberto Flores, David Garrido, and Osualdo Lopez. 
The highlight of yesterday's track and field competition was the fastest heat of the 1500 meter run in which Eric Roman Tosado overtook Dean Marcos of Great Britain to set a Special Olym­pics record of 4:14.3. Marcos finished a close second in 4:20.2. 
In the woman's 1500 meter run, Janet Fantozzi of Maine kicked to win, beating Karen Dillard who finished a close second in 5:36.0. Dillard's previ­ous best is 5:59.0. 
Thus, competition increases, as the Games move into its second day of finals. Records have fallen and with two days of finals remaining, more are expected to be rewritten. 
Visit the Exhibition THE SECOND DECADE, 1946-1955 photographs from LIFE magazine at The Snite Museum of Art, Univerisity of Notre Dame (directly north of the stadium's west parking lot) Special Olympic museum hours: Saturday, Aug. 8 ­10 a.m. -4 p.m. Sunday, Aug. 9 ­1 p.m. -4 p.m. An exhibition organized and circulated by the international Center of Photography, this exhibition is jointly sponsored by Time Inc., and United Technologies. The Michiana showing of the exhibition has been underwritten by Pat and Art Declo. '  


--------~-~-----­
The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 13 

University life continues on as normal 
By SARA MARLEY Observer Staff 
University business has continued as usual despite the influx of athletes, coaches, volunteers, and spectators for the International Summer Special Olympics Games. 
"Tour-wise it's been slower," claims tour guide Nancy Johns, who works at the information desk near the Bus Shel­ter. "People see the 'Information' sign and think we're with Special Olym­pics," she said. 
Because Johns and co-worker Liana Odrcic were not given specific informa­tion about the Games, they redirect questioners to the Games Information desk at the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
"Thank God (the Center) is right across the street so we can point," con­tinued Johns, speaking about the lan­guage barrier the pair have encoun­tered "all the time." 
One group approached the desk with an Italian-English dictionary in hand. "They had to look up every single word they wanted to ask us," said Johns. "It was hilarious." 
During the rest of the summer, the most frequent requests Johns and Odrcic get are directions to the bookstore and how to get to off-campus locations by bus. 
Although her work schedule has not allowed Johns much time to attend events, she and Odrcic have gotten to know members of Team Peru staying in nearby Alumni Hall. 
"They come by every day. One ath­lete gave me the rose he was presented with his medal," Johns explained. "We've learned to communicate even though we don't speak the language," she added. "It's a lot of fun." 
John Uhran's duties with Educational Media this week have included showing movies for the athletes' enjoyment when they are not competing. Due to the international spirit of the Games, Uhran has been able to see popular American movies in different lan­guages. Seeing "The Karate Kid" in French forced Uhran to recall past high school French. 
"I understood a little bit," said Uh­ran. "Certain lines were easier to catch." 
Working in the Center for Continuing Education, currently being used as the Games' Operations Center, has been challenging at times. "The CCE was a zoo on Friday when everybody was trying to check in," continued Uhran. "Since then things have really been pretty normal. We haven't been any busier than usual." 
As a campus mail carrier, Mary Mar­ley must enter most buildings on campus, including those being used primarily for Special Olympics this week. "I had thought it would be crazier but it really has been fun," remarked Marley 
Joe Sifer and Bob Hergenrother, sum­mer hall managers of Fisher Hall, have 
found Special Olympics to be "the best 
part of the summer." 
The Mexican delegation is residing 
in Fisher this week as well as members 
of the Monogram Club, Notre Dame 
alumni volunteering their time for the 
Games. The diversity of residents in 
Fisher creates what Sifer calls a 
"unique" situation. 
"We're the only dorm housing volun­
teers," he added. 
According to Hergenrother, this ar­rangement has not caused problems. Most of the volunteers housed in the dorm have been working at information centers or with team sports like softball and soccer. As the week progressed, they began to interact more and more with the Mexican athletes. 
"Because Mexico is staying on the fourth floor, the alumni didn't know where they were at first," explained Hergenrother. "Now they have started to congratulate the athletes on their medals." 
The ever-present language barrier has also been a factor in Fisher. Neither Sifer, Hergenrother, nor assistant hall manager John Dunn speak Spanish. 
"A few of the coaches speak En­glish," Hergenrother said. "All the Mexicans are really great, friendly 
The Observer/Joann Whitfield 

people. We just wish we could under­stand them," he added. 
Problems in general have been few. Disciplinary problems have been non­existant. "I've encountered many fewer problems than I did as an R.A. during the year," Hergenrother remarked. 
Other problems have been different in nature from those encountered during the regular school year. One ath­lete had recurrent seizures and the medical crew had to be called in. 
The lack of problems has not meant a lack of work. "We do a lot more than you'd expect. We're involved in every aspect of Special Olympics," said Sifer. 
Notre Dame's Security Department, aided by area and state forces, have done their best to keep the university operating normally. 
"I really can't knock it," said Officer Daniel Hale, "but we're all pretty tired." 
The security staff has been working an average of ten to fourteen hours per day. 
"All in all people have been very cooperative," continued Hale. "The day to day parking and traffic for fac­ulty and staff has been a little different, but's it's only for a week. Really, it's been great." 

Buy One PIZZA Get One FREE! 

Buy any size Original Round Pizza at regular price and get the identical pizza FREE with this coupon. 1349 Portaye AVt' 510 w~· McKinley ..JJ-3200 259-00~1 
462b Western Ave. 2047 E. Ireland 
234-4192 ..::l:l1-8260 
~~~®~ ~When you make pizza this good, one just isn't enough.'" 
01986 Little CAesar Enterprise$, Inc. 
rr--. 
VAUIAIU COUPON ·--~--. VAUIAIU COUPON ·--..
I~ I~ I 
1Two 14" PizzasiTwo 12" Pizzasl 
I $1 o.~~~! $7-~!~! 
ILarge Size Pizzas 1Medium Size Pizzas~ with Cheese & with Cheese &
1 1 1
1 2 Items 1 2 Items 
I Extra items and extra cheese I Extra items and extra cheese1I available at additional cost. available at additional cost.I Valid with coupon at participat-1 Valid with coupon at participat-11ing Little Caesars. One coupon1 ing Little Caesars. One couponl per customer. Carry Out Only. I per customer. Carry Out Only. I
I Expires: 8-22-87 1,Explres: 8-22-87 
1(1)~~.(1)~~~ 
·--·V.W.WU COUPON ___...___ VAUIAIU CCIUI'OH ___.. 

OscoDrug_@gf" 
~· 

COMBINE TO SUPPORT THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS! 
Special Olympics Commemorative Pins Are Available Exclusively At Osco Drug. 
Osco$2 99 
Prlc.. • 

o-Dnll _. c-colll CoiMine To lupport n. Olplplol 
50~o•• & 
~

..-,...... 
o..~ ..,..... 

l•tt.i·1·1ilj.J 

-



The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987-page 14 
-
Young medal winner charms way to top 
By PRATIBHA TRIPATHI 
Observer Staff 
The writing on Ardith Gross' t-shirt reads "My son Greg is very special." 
Greg, a Baton Rouge, La. resident, is not only a special son and a special athlete but also an especially good charmer. He can charm his way to the top. And he has. 
In September 1983, Greg was invited to visit President Reagan in Washing­ton, D.C. He was made an honorary senator from Louisiana and introduced to the House of Representatives, accor­ding to Greg's mother. "They made him an honorary citizen of Washington, D.C," she said. 
· As Ardith cites bits and pieces of her son's unique personality and ac­complishments, Greg, 16, appears from behind and sits down in an empty chair. 
Greg does not extend his hand for a shake, but instead he holds it for a charming kiss, snickers, and says, "I'm falling in love." 
The topic of Greg's girlfriend comes up. His mother asks Greg about his girlfriend. Greg turns his head and says, "I'm looking at her." Then he commands, smiling, "Write that down." 
Greg is an especially good mood today because he won first place in the 50m medley and his team won first in the backstroke preliminaries." 
"It's fun," says Greg. He will be com­peting in the 200m freestyle and lOOm backstroke. In the 1982 state games in Louisiana, Greg won two gold medals in the 25m and 50m freestyle. 
"We didn't know he was going to par­ticipate (in 1982)," says Ardith. When another athlete dropped out, Greg was the replacement. Greg's coach was very nervous, his mother says, because she felt he wasn't prepared. "He won (the gold) by one stroke," recalls Ar­dith. 
Greg didn't know he had won, says Ardith. He realized only when "he was bending over and looking at the steps and saw himself standing on top. He raised his index finger and signaled 'number one."' 
Despite his Down's Syndrome, Greg leads an active life. He rides his bike 20 to 30 miles everyday. "I wore my wheels out," says Greg proudly. 
To raise funds for charitable organi­zations, Greg often enters bike-a-thons, swim-a-thons, and candy sales. "He has a great ability to collect pledges," says Ardith. Recently, he raised $1,079 in a 
· candy sale for his school. "They call him the Good Willing Am­bassador," explljlins Ardith Gross. "They called him the poster child in Baton Rouge, but Eunice (Shriver) doesn't like to have a poster child." He was chosen to do commercials and advertisements for the 1983 Interna­tional Special Olympics. His picture ap­pears on Indiana road maps, Special Olympics information booklets, and with President Reagan from Greg's in­vitation to the White House. President Reagan sent him a Christmas card and Greg responded by sending him a birthday card in February, says Ardith. Reciting the schedule of his favorite television programs, Greg says he en­joys watching TV. "Days of Our Lives" is his favorite show, he says, because "there are no bad guys with guns" and because "I love the girls ... Hope and Marlena." 
Thanks All The Sponsors Who Have Contributed To Its Effort To Cover These Games And The Thirty-Five Notre Dame Students Who Have Given Their Time To Produce This Newspaper. 

A softball player sports his medal after yesterday's final games. Winners in­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 15 
NORWEGIAN -NORSK IT ALlAN -ITALIANO 
I l~apet av den siste uken, vi fra pressen har fulgt lekene og all aktiteten og Durante questi ultimi sette giorni tutti noi, appartenenti a questa giornale, f~alelsene som fulger med dem. Gjennom disse sidene har vi pmvd vArt beste for A abbiamo osservato i Giochi e tutto l'insieme di tante attivita che hanno suscitate in gi deg et bilde av et foretagende sA stort og flott som De lnternasjonale Spesielle noi grandi emozioni. Attraverso le pagine del nostro giomale abbiamo cercato di Olympiske Leker, Sommer 1987. offrirvi un'immagine di questo evento spettacolare: i Giochi estivi delle Olimpiadi 
Vi i ledelsen, for det meste bestAende av Notre Dame studenter; har blitt Speciali del1987. sterkt grepet av kontakten vi har hatt med atletene, trenerne, familiene og de La maggior parte del personale di questo giornale dell'universita di Notre frivillige som aile har blitt en veldig spesiell del av vArt liv. Vi har sett opp til deres Dame e composto da studenti e noi tutti siamo stati commossi dal contatto che engngement i Lekene, spsiellt atletene, aldri f"r har vi sett et slikt ~anske om abbiamo avuto con gli atleti, con gli allenatori, con le famiglie e con i volontari che Agj~are det bra sammen med en mulighet til A konkurere og vinne. sono divenuti tuti parte della nostra vita in un modo insospettato e speciale. 
Vi har satt pris pA denne rnuligheten til A hjele aile som har kommet sammen Abbiamo ammirato tutti coloro che hanno partescipato ai Giochi, rna specialmente for A forme dette mere samfunnet av mennesker som er aile opptatt av disse gli atleti; mai averamo visto un tale desiderio de eccellere accompagnato da una Lekenes mAl. Det har virkelig v!Brt en minnerik tid, vi hAper at ingen som har tatt rara capacita di concorrere e di vincere. del i Lekene noen gang vii glemme de. Siamo grati di aver avuto questa opportunita di servire tutti quelli que sono 
venuti qui assieme per formare questa communita che estata di breve durata rna Ha en god reise hjeml di grande intensita, questa comunita fermata da tante persona diverse dedicate aile Olimpiadi Speciali. Questa sono state giomate memorabili e siamo certi che THE OBSERVER tutti quem che hanno partecipato a questa evento non lo dimenticheranno 
facilmente. 

PORTUGUESE-PORTUGES 
Buon viaggio a tutti -Arrivederci! 
;; 

Nos 7 dias passados, n6s do jornal, temos assistido ao jogos , e a todas ·. L·;;~::.n,e Observer atividades e emocao que vern com eles atraves destas paginas, n6s temos tentado o maximo trazer a melhor imagem do evento, tao grande e espetacular, como As Olimpfadas lnternacionais Especial1987. 

Com a comissao organizdora composta na sua maioria de estudantes da Universidade de Notre Dame, nos temos sidos profundamente tocados pelo Por>los siete dfas pasados, nosotros en el peri6dico hemos estado contato que temos tido com os atletas, treinadores, famllias e voluntaries que observando losJuQQO& y toda Ia actividad y emoci6n que van junto con ellos. A t~m. tornado uma nova parte de nossas vidas. N6s admiramos todos os traves de estas piigin•s h8mos tratado lo mejor de nosotros para brindarles una 
. . ·'"''"'""""'"'·'
envolvidos como jogos, especialmente os atletas; nunca se viu tanto de~ejode figura de un evento tan grande y epectacular como los Juegos de las Olimpiadas veneer acornpanhado de rara habilidade de competir e tentar o maximo. ;m' Especiales.lnternacionales de Verano de 1987. 
N6s apreciamos esta oportunidade de servir a todos que tem se unido para Como una organizaci6n compuesta mayormente de estudiantes de Notre formar esta temporaria mas aconhegante comunidade de pessoas que se Dame, hemos estado profundamente conmovidos por el contacto que hemos dedicaram a causa das Olimpfadas Specais. Estes dias tern realmente sldo tenldo oon los atletas.entrenadores, familiares y voluntaries quienes han llegado memoaveis, e temos certeza que todos que fizeram partes deste evento jamais o a ser una parte muy nueva y especial de nuestras vidas. Nosotros hemos 
esqueceram. admirado a todos los involucrados en los Juegos --especialmente a los atletas. Nunca antes hemos visto el deseo tal de sobresalir unido con Ia rara abilidad de Boa viagem competir y ganar y tratar tan bien. Hemos apreciado esta oporttunidad de servir a todos los que se han unido 
The Observer para formar esta temporal pero estrecha comunidad de gente quienes son dedicados a Ia causa de las Olimpiadas Especiales. Es cierto que ha sido un tiempo memorable y estamos seguros que nadie de los que han experimentado este evento nunca podran olvidarlo. 
FRENCH -FRANQAIS 1que te'ngan buen viajel 
-:y

Depuis une semaine, le personnel de notre journal suit les Jeux, tant dans leurs activites que dans !'emotion qui les accompagne. Par nos articles, nous avons tente de vous transmettre et de partager avec vous un evenement aussi 1!Jm.. DUTCH-NEDERLANDS spectaculaire et aussi important que le sont les Jeux lnternationa!Jx Special Olympics d'Ete 1987. Gedurende de laatste zeven dagen hebben wij hier aan de krant de Speciale 
En tant qu'equipe composee principalement d'etudiants de I'Unlversite Olymplade van dictbij gevolgd, en daarmee ook deelgenomen aan aile Notre-Dame, nous avons ete tres emus par les contacts que nous avons etablis activiteiten en emoties die daarmee samengaan. In deze bladzijden hebben wij avec les athletes, les entraineurs, les families et les benevoles, qui occupant geprobeerd om jullie allemaal een beeld te geven van de omvang en vooral van desormais une nouvelle place tres speciale dans notre vie et dans notre coeur. de grandiositeit van de intemationale zomerspelen van dese speciale olympiade. 
Nous avons admire tous les participants, et particulierement les athletes; Onze stat, die voor het grooste deel uit Notre Dame studenten bestaat, is jamais auparavant n'avions-nous vu un tel desir d'exceller m~le a une rare abilite • diep getroffen dor het contact dat we gehad hebben met de athleten, coaches, concourir, a gagner ou, sinon, a ~tre courageux dans l'effort. familieleden en niet te vergeten de vrijwilligers. Ze zijn allemaal een heel nieuw en 
Nous sommes enfins tiers d'avoir eu !'occasion de rendre service a tous ceux speciaal deel van ons eigen Ieven geworden. ledereen die bij de speciaal deel qui s'etaient unis pour former cette communaute temporaire mais combien liee, van ons eigen Ieven geworden. ledereen die bij de spelen betrokken was dediee a Ia cause de Special Olympics. Cela represente sans aucun doute un hebben we bewonderd, maar vooral de athleten. Nog nooit hebben we zo'n moment memorable de notre vie, et nous sommes certains que nulle per$()nrut drang gezien om uit te blinken, om te winnen; en dat gecombineerd mnet een ayant fait !'experience de cet evenement ne saurait l'oublier. veriTI()Qen om zo hard te proberen. 
"' :WIIi:·= ,. We heeben het erg op prijs gesteld om idereen van dienst te zijn die hier Au revoir et bon voyage! -' '"' kwam voor dat tijdelijke maar intiem samenzijn van men sen die zich gewijd
5: hebpen aan de Speciale Olympiade. Het was echt een gedenkwaardige tijd, en 
L'OBSERVATEUR ·., '::~we tijn er zeker van dat niemand die aan deze Olympiade heeft deelgenomen ·"#',-'fiat ooit zal kunnen vergeten. 
GERMAN -DEUTSCH The Observer 
In den letzten sieben Tagen hat diese Zeitung die Olympischen Spiele, ihre Heiterkeit und Augregung mit interesse verfolgt, und wir haben unser Bastes 
POLISH -POLSKI
getan, Ihnen einen Eindruck von diesen spektakul~ren 1987 International Siummer Special Olympics Games mitzuteilen. 
W ci~gu ostatnich siedrnu dni, jako reporterzy gazety
Als Notre Dame Studenten waren wir von unserem Kontakt mit den Athleten 
obserwowalisrny zawody wszystkich dyscyplin sportowych, jak und ilren Trainers, mit den Familien un Freiwilligen zutiefst berOhrt -dieses rowniez bylisrny swiatkarni ernocji sportowcow, trenerow, oraz Erlebnis werden wir nie vergessen. Besonders die Athleten haben unseren olbrzyrnie widbwni. W ci~gu tych siedrniu dni, staralisrny sie 
w jak najlepszy sposob odzwierciedlic panstwu miedzynarodowe
Respekt geewonnen, denn sie gaben ihr Alles immer wieder. 
zawody olirnpiady specjalnej roku 1987. 
Wir sind dankbar, daB wir die Gelegenheit hatten, ein Teil der Spevcial 
Jestesrny zatoga skladaj~c~ si~ gtownie ze studentow Olympics Gemeinschaft zu sein, da wir enfach wunderbare Leute kennegelernt Universitetu Notre Dame. Przezywarny zawody na r6wni ze . haben. Diese Spiele und diese Tage werden wir --und all diejenigen, die sportowcami, trenerarni, rodzinarni sportowcow oraz ochotnikarni, kt6rzy s~ now~ czesci~ naszego zycia.
irgendwie mitgemacht haben -nie vergessen. 
Podziwiarny wszystkich tych ktorzy biora udziat w zawodach a przedewszystkirn zawodnicow. Nigdy przedtern nie widzielisrny Aufwiedersehen und gute Reise! tak duzego wysitku i checi do z,dobycia najlepszych rniejsc i radosci ze zwyciestwa. 
·'"

Bardzo sie cieszyrny ze rnoglisrny bye czesci~ ludzi, ktorzy
Der Observer 
poswiecaj~ swoj czas dla olonpiady specjalnej. s~ to niezapornniane przezycia. 

~---------------------------------­The Observer ISSOG Issue Friday, August 7, 1987 -page 16 
Thanks for the 
• 
For the past seven days, we at the newspaper have been watching the Games and all of the activity and emotion that go along with them. Through these pages we have tried our best to bring you a picture of an
memor1es 
event as large and spectacular as the 1987 International 
aIf~ ( Jo.po. r1 e-'e. ) 

:::.11 -~. J:t..fL. Observa 11. 1."··z 11 tt11z ~ ~ IV\ I~ ff 1J. 7 19 t.. II ~it, II F~ '? 1.-!t. Z J ~ I 1;. • ~ I 2. ~fmt~IZ. ~~~~:t:f.7"1rt·~l-· 1'1<B7t @:t@iff­
0

'A "\" ~1" ll/ if., / t-''/ 7 l f ~1/ 1-=-:ali ill <~ 11 11-;. •
'1'-'1 vJ r .,v,tt...l-r. 1 ··1 1 11 11 u..., "-·~·... r-~ l'v rt.--, ·J;_ ,t-;.~:~-'1. t'1. ~ l-l1 -01ill . ~)\' . ;-f 1' } \ . '1' lf-"~ :. f 11 fi ~ 1 v. :t ~ ~ ~ f\ '1 '1. ~ ftl~ u1 ;f'1 ) ~ L%1··· z--J . ~~ ', ~ i~ ~ fi ,-rz ,,:vq. j;tz 1t..!-x··,~.t~ 1-r..~~1111J--· -1iiv11 ·r·-ttr~ 1.13 IU·-=-, ~~·~~t'ff.r·m1t-vt'J'f.;., ; (/1 'A"" ~-f'IV -;{'1-.--t;,• ~11 ~ -p f110 7 f= ~ ~~ _ ~~tJ. 1-~ f.. i ~ -,~ ~. 'ft · ' rP1 z· I-&x··. 1,1·· 0 , . , ~ 1$; 1.rt 
f. -1 ~ 1/1 r-( ~ 11: . ~ I 'Z 1t..\tr~ ~()I 1~'~" Z01 ).. 1~ 1: ~ 1a~ h)l··· r~. z··11.
*,<'t 7 

;f~ ,-;. 11/ r-: rx. '6. fl lz ~"/1;.. ~dl At~~ ~~PI 'f.-11'(2 VI ;.. ~ ~ , z 1-~ t· rv '(~ ~to. ~ · · tt 1-;.1J J ~ L'i. 'M ttr ? ~I t: t-(1-q. 
Korean 
::::tj tt ~ ¥} t~ 4-i?.l .AJ£o11-'i-'t 2.€ ~ 714 ~%' ...:L-i?.l,j!_ .:z. ~~i 
~o/-1±'-§'L..Jr.f-. -TciJc. ~~11+~ ~&t-J 421-2) .ij-tlt c~B~ 0/ /9R'JL~ 
--=tA1J o=f~ ~-t -1:~:!!1 ~ 7 1~ 3.~ ~1-o-jB~"~ICSpec+~"l"'-) _5!£_ ~e-!.il .I.~ *~.gLJcJ-. J.l~ £~.,~ ~ii~ ~Aj~i. -=l-11¥1 -9-~lt 4-el7r~c-~J· l·~~.i! .s:. ~ ~~ 
-tr')ojl~ ~~ -1:!+.1~ :n::..L 7~ .:z.al~ ·~.,(r;(,~.!~~~ ~~01JA-f 3_:HI :t~i 
"t..-~~*r. -f21t. ~t ~11011 ~~~ j~-[ ~s/ ilf4c.J. -~~~ {1-'r~t; -Tc/i_ :A/~77~:zJ 2..~11 opf~!c. ~~2}-'tt~ei'e. t'!J:~i 3!_7-/ !.S~i ...ltr. 
~i!.J~ oJ ~i:~~.!:j .£jDJb1) ~1:1~ ~J./5., ?~j -1-~i£!-o/ +.>JI-J-~J.el ~~ 4-?Jt 24t 7' :tJ i -:t""r -=-tJ...p:.f . oj ?Jt. J.;j'ti 7I'!Jatl 'EI"t Ajl!ol ~-QLJr+. ~cl:it ~2-l!r.. 4.lf.£ 0 1 ~~).~t>l/ 
~;.4!!: ~~ 1tctJ!t ~A:I -¥:-~~olej-.l!. ~iJ'-lcf. 
-The Observer 


Summer Special Olympics Games. 
As a staff composed of mostly Notre Dame students, we have been deeply touche"d by the contatt we have had with the athletes, coaches, families and volunteers who have become a very new and special part of our lives. We have admired all involved in the Games -­especially the athletes; never before have we seen such a desire to excel coupled with the rare ability to compete and win and try so well. 
We have appreciated this opportunity to serve every­one who has joined together to form this temporary but close community of people who are dedicated to the Special Olympics cause. It has truly been a memorable time, and we are certain that no one who has experienced this event shall ever forget it. 
-The Observer 
Croatlan-Serblan (Hrvatsko-Srpskl) 

Projteklih sedam dana pratili smo igre, svu njihovu ljepotu i toplinu koja ih prati. Kroz stranice ovog casopisa zeljeli smo docarati jedan prekrasan i spektakularan dogadjaj 1987 Internacionalne Ljetne Specijalne Olimpijske Igre. 
Kao grupa novinara sastavljena vecinom od studenta Notre Dame, a bili smo vrlo uzbudjeni radom sa natjecateljima , trenerima i njihovim roditel­jima kojil su postali vrlo znacajni djelovi naseg zivota. Divili smo se sima koji su bili dio igara --specijalno natcecateljima; nikad prije nismo vidjeli toliko zelju za ucestvovanjem spojenu sa rijetkom sposobnoscu da se natjecu, pobjede ida se toliko trude. 
Vrlo smo zahvalni onima koji su nam pruzili sansu da radimo za one koji su se skupili iz cijelog svijeta da bi zajedno privremeno stvorili ovu prekrasnu zajednicu u suradnji sa svim volunterima i onima koji su na bilo koji nacin pomogli ove igre. Bile su to igre koje su se usjekle duboke u nasa sjecanja i sugurni smo da svi koji su, makar za trenutak, bili ovdje nece skoro zaboravati ovaj prekrasan dogadjaj. 
-The Observer 

Ch;n~~e. --fj:_ 
_ ii~~ltl1 tJ r'-i, , {~_r_ 1t z fi "fi~ 1 t-l7 
f -~_)1;1~~ >tlJ) , nr ~j 3 A.1P~ 1fy ~ff ,~1P~ 
MJ A? ~i'l. t1& 7]f ~ ~ ~i!¥.-#-?t~ Jt if LJtl7j t 
~~ . ~ ,f+ -"'t;;;,. f. -iti...l H--4-1. I v t} ~LA I-. .; 
~/f':£A._~1-'fi!ti.~ VJ :.:L :!/.' 11J~f.ZJ-:f. f Jtii'/'....iJ<.... ·> 
;f;#R.L "f A_ tl k j *-!l-t? ~ ~~~~ w1_ J 1ft. 
® ~ . ~~~#I . Sd~ , ~Ff.~2-ff :frr4ivi~~, 
t~--k1f-~1r~ ~ ~r. b .l! !!:_~= ~-..... ~ -iZ1r~1r7 ±~t. tt 
it} I ~vi , ~~/pi\+.;% . 
~fr~t~1~~~ $:.~if~~:? ~r 111 A..~ £ 
~-iff~~ '1-tt.1f1~~!·1l~if_t_.ill_;-s· . ~ ~iiif-t'
! JJ_ • strr 1)' ~-~ :t1fx-a~~~ ~w> :n-*~ ,tr-1i\fr~ 
:flkrk 1L1~ • 

_c_. _ 
---~~Ji $J t* 2£ -t.f 1~~ ~ /11)1 ,<.__ 1r~ -X±~ -rm~ 1 -1iiJ ~ , ~~ ~ ~a~ /uj t, ~:K ~ , :~ 1r~ t ~i'N-v .J:.:.U 411® t_~t, ¥t~·tiiJ~ 4~lt#v)
-

~1£_-------.... --=~~~=-~... 


