25 degrees below...
/ACCENT: Dedicated volunteers Cloudy, but much colder today with highs near 45. Fair tonight with lows near 30. Sunny tomorrow, highs near
IVIEWPOINT: Abortion under fire 45. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 46 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Honor code 


Survey to show 
reactions 

are varied student beliefs 
By KENDRA MORRILL vide concrete support for or op­
By MARILYN BENCHIK Copy Editor position to issues that arise on 
Senior Staff Reporter campus," Viz said. If student 
The first annual survey of the government has concrete 
With the installation of an 
student body of Notre Dame evidence of student support or 
Academic Honor Code, which was sent out to approximately opposition on a certain issue to 
calls for unproctored examina­
2,000 randomly chosen students bring to the administration, its 
tions and students reporting 
yesterday. "efforts (to persuade the ad­
cheaters, many varied student 
ministration) are given more 
reactions are surfacing on the The survey, set up through 
credibility," said Viz. 

Notre Dame campus. the Social Science Training and 
A long-term purpose of the
Dan Gerlach, student repre­Research Laboratory, is being 
survey is to examine how the
sentative on the University conducted by student govern­
student body changes over the 
Academic Honor Code Com­ment ''to better determine the 
years, according to Viz. He said 
mittee, believes that "you backgrounds, desires, and atti­
he hopes the survey will con­
cannot force honor on tudes of Notre Dame under­
tinue annually. "Then, at the 
anybody," but said he agrees graduate students," according 
end of five, ten, 15 years we can 
with the principles of the code. to the cover letter that accom­
see how the student body has
"A Catholic university should panied the survey, which was 
evolved," he said. 

advocate an honor code as part signed by all five of the student 
of education morally and ethi­senators. Sample questions, page 4 
cally in addition to intellectual­The survey is divided into 
ly," said Gerlach. three sections: demographics, Viz said he wanted to stress 
The code is directed at this campus issues and social is­the "complete confidentiality 
year's freshmen. "Upperclas­sues. The demographics sec­and individuality" of the sur­
smen are not going to be forced tion asks general information vey. Many students might 
to use the code. The only questions about the respondent think there would be adminis­
classes which will state whe­which should help to better trative repercussions based on 
ther or not it is an honor code identify the typical Notre some of their answers to the 
class will be electives," he Dame student, according to the more controversial questions, 
said. letter. said Viz, but the administration 
While the freshmen will have The social issues section will has nothing to do with the sur­
to comply to the rules of the "elucidate what Notre Dame vey. 
code in three out of five of their students believe" about He said Father David Tyson, 
classes each semester, they various social, moral and ethi­vice president for student af­
"came in knowing that th&y'd cal issues, said Steve Viz, stu­fairs, assured him that there 
be governed under the code in dent senator for District 4. would be no type of investiga­
some of their classes," Gerlach The campus issues section is tion and no effort whatsoever 
added. perhaps the most vital part of to pinpoint any students based 
The Honor Code will be im­the survey, according to Viz. on their answers. 
plemented during the Spring "The majority of action will "No one even sees the 
semester. come out of it," he said. cards," said Viz. "They go 
"The purpose of the whole 
campus issue section is to pro-see SURVEY, page 4
see REACT, page 4 
Saint Mary's begins exchange with black college 

By PATTI WEED A meeting between college dents to spend a semester at students from 45 states and 22 44 students who applied, said News Staff administrators last spring either college would be formed, nations. Rowan. 
about student exchanges said Rowan. The difference between the In an attempt to increase the prompted a visit from three Spellman and Saint Mary's two liberal arts colleges is that "I was surprised at the num­minority population at Saint Saint Mary's students to the have similar statistics in many Saint Mary's has a ber of students that applied. It 
Mary's College, administra­Spellman campus last areas. 
predominantly white popula­was difficult to choose three 
tors are working on a student weekend. Enrollment at Spellman is tion; Spellman is women," she said. The pro­
exchange program with Spel­Tentative plans call for stu­1,600, compared to 1,800women predominantly black. gram was open to juniors and lman College, a predominantly dents from Spellman to visit at Saint Mary's. Student com­seniors. black women's college in At­Saint Mary's during the spring position is also similar, with Junior Monica Tette, senior Saint Mary's paid for all of lanta, according to Mary Ann semester. If all goes well and Spellman admitting students Liz Neill and junior Christy the girls' travel expenses,Rowan, director of admissions positive feedback is received, from 42 states and 12 nations, Wolfe visited Spellman after while Spellman took care of at Saint Mary's. than an opportunity for stu-and Saint Mary's admitting being selected from among the their housing and meals. 
Reagan: European security, SDI won't be bargained 
Associated Press nuclear weapons to restrictions Last Friday, Reagan said mation Agency's "Worldnet" general secretary that Reagan 
on his "Star Wars" missile Gorbachev was not making and the Voice of America. is adamant about moving 
WASHINGTON -President defense plan, also known as the SDI concessions a condition for In part, the speech attempted ahead with his Star Wars pro­Reagan vowed Wednesday that Strategic Defense Initiative, cutbacks in strategic arms. In to calm fears that the removal gram. a nuclear arms treaty with the SDI. his speech Wednesday, of U.S. medium-and short­Urging the Kremlin to Soviet Union will not undercut "We won't bargain away however, Reagan complained range missiles in Europe would withdraw its forces from Af­the U.S. commitment to these­SDI," Reagan said in a speech about ''the Soviet tactic of hold­weaken the Western alliance ghanistan, Reagan said, "The curity of Europe, saying the a month before Soviet leader ing these offensive reductions and leave Europe vulnerable to Soviet occupation of Afghanis­stationing of 300,000 American Mikhail Gorbachev arrives in hostage to measures that would the Warsaw Pact's conven­tan is most certainly a dreadful troops abroad and "our stead­Washington for a superpower cripple" SDI. tional forces, which greatly quagmire." He called it "a no­fast nuclear guarantee under­summit. The two leaders are outnumber those in the West. win situation" for Moscow. score this pledge." expected to sign a treaty ban­Reagan's remarks, taped at The address also challenged The INF treaty will require 
Reagan also said it was "to­ning intermediate-range nu­the White House on Tuesday, the authenticity of Gorbac­the United States and Soviet tally unacceptable" for the So­clear forces (INF) in Europe were broadcast to Europe on hev's campaign of openness, or Union to eliminate medium­viet Union to try to link reduc­and to discuss other arms dif­Wednesday by satellite chan­"glasnost," and underscored to and short-range nuclear mis­tions in globe-girdling strategic ferences. nels of the United States Infor-the Soviet Communist Party siles in Europe. 
~---~-----­
----------------------~--------------------· 
t page 2 The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1987 


In Brief, . 
In the Philippines, police have detained 17 people in the killings of three Americans near Clark Air Base and await tests on weapons before deciding whether to file charges. At least six of those held are also believed to be rebels of the communist New People's Army. 11 of the 17 were picked up Tuesday in the Angeles City area, next to the U.S.-run base 50 miles north of Manila, and the others were arrested last week on weapons charges. Ballistics tests are being conducted on confiscated pistols to determine whether they were used in the Oct. 28 kilings. 
-Associated Press 
A 6-foot ostrich on the lam in Oklahoma City caused quite a stir in Linda Alvarado's house. Alvarado's pooch first spied the bird near the house Tuesday and pursued it past her daughter's bedroom. The girl promptly dashed out after the flapping fugitive. The family terrier cornered 
the bird near a shed. While 10-year-old Graham covered the ostrich with his BB-gun, his parents called the sheriff's department, who responded: "We don't do ostriches, ma'am." Finally, after the Alvarados endured hours of guard duty, the ostrich's owner and a friend came by and literally bagged the escapee. -Associated Press Of Interest Saint Edward's Hall's academic commission will hold a talk by Professor Kevin Scanlon on "The Stock Market Crash: How Did It Happen? ... And What About the Future?" The talk will be given at 8 p.m. in the St. Ed's first floor lounge. All are welcome. -The Observer Sheila O'Brien will speak today as part of the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series sponsored by SARG. O'Brien will talk about her career path from an ND un­dergrad and law school student to an Associate Judge of the State of Illinois. The lecture will take place at 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer Dr. Robert Lifton, professor of psychiatry and psychology, will address the issue of "Nuclear 'Normality'--False Assumptions and New Directions" at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. -The Observer Biology majors are invited to a slide show and discussiOn on the summer field biology course at the Uni­versity's Environmental Research Center. It will be held in Galvin Life Science auditorium at 7 p.m. -The Observer Equestrian Club meeting will take place at 9:30 p.m. in room 222 of Hesburgh Ltbrary. For information, call Liz at 2934. -The Observer The JPW Committee needs juniors interested in taking pictures. For more information, call Bart at 3770 or Colleen at 2491. -The Observer Fashion show tryout applications for the Black Cultural Arts Festival should be submitted no later than Friday, November 13. To receive an application, contact Kim Stevenson at 4072. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­-­-----.L-=-Y=-'-' ---­Design Editor ........ Rob Luxem Viewpoint Layout ... Dee Dee Wroblewski Design Assistant ............ Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Buc Accent Layout.................... Carolyn Rey ..................................... Mark Ridgeway Typists............................ . . Lynn Ewing News Editor. ..................... Scott Bearby ......................................... Cathy Haynes Copy Editor . ..................... Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editor .......... ..... Kathy McKee Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rader Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick Photographer............................. Wen Yi TM O!Mener (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum and vacation periods. TM Oblener is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqc. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina TM Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. TM O!Mener is a member of TM Alloclaled Preu. All reproduction riahts arc reserved.  


'~un logic' part of charm in Catholic institutions 
It was three degrees below zero, and the windchill factor was thirty below. There was three feet of snow on the ground from the storm that hit overnight, and school hadn't been can­celled. 
It took us triple the time to get to our school in the boondocks, and we almost didn't make it. But it's O.K., we were being protected ... by nuns. 
When I found nowhere to park my car after sliding down the hill into the unplowed lot, I tunnelled my way to the principal's office. 
"Sister Mary Ann, why aren't the courts plowed?" "We didn't know it was going to snow, Sandy." 
There you have it, ladies and gentlemen, Nun Logic. It's a term I've used for years with my friends (Some of them nuns themselves). Be­cause Catholics, but more particularly, nuns seem to have a way of thinking that is separate from any other. 
I'm convinced that they all go to the same school before they can be first grade teachers. They all graduate thinking that grade school children have perfect bladder control and never feel nauseous. If they claim to, they're lying ... even if the proof is all over the classroom floor. 

Sometimes I wonder how I survived Saint 
But their biggest fear by far is gender inter­Christine's. But then came high school and an­action. In the first grade, the girls and the boys other chance at being a "Big Kid" and possibly 
occupied separate sections of the room, and it discovering my sexuality. was clear that Sister Anne Marie didn't want 
Fat chance. I attended an "all girls school," us to interact. She addressed us separately and and although our nuns didn't need to worry
took us to the bathroom, buslines and recess themselves with gender separation, their separately. Boys first, girls last. 
paranoia that we might discover our deep, dark The ERA wasn't very big then, but I had secrets buried under brotherly love and the New 
hopes that when I was one of the "Big Kids" Testament was imminent. in Junior High, things would change. 
I found myself in the sixth grade at St. Chris­But they must've done something right, be­tine's School with a pad of paper and a pen cause they convinced at least 1,800 women to copying down verses in the New Testament attend a private, single sex college. I'm 21 yearsduring recess every day of every week. old, and I've got to clear out of the study lounge 
Our entire class had been punished until in the library so they can BOYPROOF the build­graduation because the boys pinned Jeanette ing before they leave us in there "after hours." across the desk in Sister Cecilia's homeroom. The days of rulers on the knuckles and rosary So much for interaction. bead~ may be long gone, but the sex classes 
But recess was taken away forever. At age and their adolescent confusion have permeated 13, we were all damned to remain silent until this generation of students. . high school. Most of us chose Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 
So we read. But Sister Diane took my Judy over a public university or a private, non­Blume book away in the seventh grade because Catholic university, knowing that this logic was she was appalled at the "sexual content" and prevalant. threatened to call my mother (who bought it Face it, although the paternalism can be an­for me). noying at times when parties get busted or a 
Eighth grade and still not a "Big Kid" be­date has to end early, we live in a terrific com­cause I was a member of the "damned by God" munity. class. We still went to the bathroom and bus in Maybe we all would like to wait a little longer separate groups. to be a Kid." 
FACULTY SENATE MEETING: Tues. Nov. 10, 
7:30 pm, Room 202, CCE. 
AGENDA: 

1. 
Prayer. 5. Michael Murdock: 

2. 
Approval of minutes. Questions re: ·grades. 

3. 
Chair Report. 6. Unfinished Business. 

4. 
Rex Rakow: Questions, 7. New Business. on-campus parking. 8. Adjournment. 


STUDENTS ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. 
November's Leader: Fr. Robert Krieg, CSC Associate Professor of Theology Topic: Ministry In the Church 
Wednesday, November 11, 1987 
8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information:  Vocation Directors  
Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C.  P.O. Box 541  
Fr. Paul F. Doyle, C.S.C.  Notre Dame, ln. 46556  
Phone: (219)-239-6385  


---~ 
Thursday, November 5, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Scholar series speaker offers views of art 
The Observer I Wen Vi 
By PRATIBHA TRIPATHI 
News Staff 
College of Arts and Letters' Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series brought anthropologist Alexander Alland, Jr., as the guest speaker to Notre Dame Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Alland discussed the evolu­tion of aesthetic behavior as a form of affective communica­tion in a lecture entitled ''The Role of Culture and Biology In Human Aesthetic Behavior" 
"Art is the accidental result of a series of evolutionary unr­elated adaptations each of which has adaptive sig­nificance in domains other than aesthetics," said Alland elaborating from his book "The Artistic Animal." 
"The fact that artistic behav­ior is built out of a grab bag of adaptive systems does not mean that art, once it emerges, does not have its own powerful adaptive value." Alland said. 
In his speech, the Columbia University professor discussed the emergence of aesthetic be­havior as the result of five majo.r human adaptations: en­vironmental exploration, play, attention to spatial configura­tion, ability for fine-grained perceptual discrimination, and the emergence of transforma­tive process , which is ex-the 90 days allowed for comp'li­
ance more as a beginning than 
an end of a process. The signing of the agreement 
NORTliWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
last August by five Central American presidents produced near-panic in the Reagan ad-
Student ID Cards 
Eurail Passes 

Language Programs 

1987-1988 Air Fares From Chicago 
ow  Rlf  
CARACAS  $180  $340  
ST. THOMAS  140  280  
ST. CROIX  140  280  
LONDON  220  420  
PARIS  240  478  
TEL AVIV  390  760  

Departures available from most major cltif..:s 29 East delaware Place 
Chicago, IL 60611

Meet a Medill Representative at the St. 
~UNCIL 

Mary's Carnival of Careers VI on Thursday, Council fta"' S.VIcea (312)951-0585 
November 12, 1987. 

LIP SYNC CONTEST 
North vs South Quad Saturday, November 7 Stepan Center 9:00pm 
PRIZES ($$$)
interested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Sponsored by SUB. 
emplified in the linguistic metaphor. 
"Without metaphor we would have neither true language nor art," said Alland. "Metaphor is a basic characteristic of lan­guage in which, to use a metap­hor, new patterns arise from old cloth." 
The lecture attempted to in­tegrate, under the class of l coherent theoretical approach, a set of biological and cultural­historical factors in aesthetic behavior. Alland drew his con­clusions from his comparative research including a controlled cross-cultural study of drawing by young children in Japan, Bali, Taiwan, France, Ponape, and the United States. 
"Our results show that cul­tural differences appear very early in the kinds of drawing children do," said Alland. "The Active artist data show that, except for 
Steve Romans, a technician for the Art Department, along with the work of faculty and graduate students, 
kinetic scribbling which all 
works on a sculpture at Riley Hall. It will be displayed, at the upcoming Faculty Show at the Snite Museum. 
children do before they begin to draw any kind of shape, there are no clear sequences or stages that apply to art work 
C. America deadline today
in all the cultures studied." His results tend to confirm a Associated Press 
relativistic approach to art style--that because each cul­WASHINGTON -The dead­ture is unique there can be no line for implementing the true universals in human be­Central American peace planhavior. Alland, however, at­is Thursday, but with warfare 
tempted to rescue the notion of continuing in Nicaragua and formal universals. elsewhere, U.S. officials see 
ORIENTATION!! 
for students interested in the 
Hesburgh Program In Public Service 
Monday November 9, 1987 6:30-7:30P.M. 104 O'Shaughnessy 
Research Seminars Graduate Opportunities Courses Internships 
(Students who attended the session on 10-7-87, need not attend this session.) 
ministration because officials saw the accord as a virtually cost-free way for Nicaragua's leftist government to win an end to American aid to the Con­tra rebels. 
Now, however, those fears appear somewhat exagger­ated, the officials say, adding that the Sandinista govern­ment is finding itself increas­ingly on the defensive and faces some extraordinarily difficult choices in the weeks ahead. 
The peace agreement was primarily aimed at ending Central America's insur­gencies through cease-fires and a process of national recon­ciliation. But fighting con­tinues in each of the three war­plagued countries--Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala­with little sign of an early settlement in any of them. 

El Salvador has held cease­fire discussions with leftist rebels with no progress re­ported. However, consistent with the requirements of the agreement, President Jose Napoleon Duarte is expected to announce a general amnesty for political prisoners. A par­tial, unilateral cease-fire may also be decreed in time for Thursday's deadline. 
Guatemala also has held direct discussions with leftist insurgents, but a settlement seems no more than a remote possibility. 
Central American leaders appear to recognize that the 90­day schedule for implementing the agreement was too am­bitious, and U.S. officials say the region's leaders now are looking to January as a more realistic deadline. Early that month, the five presidents are scheduled to review compli­ance with the agreement. 
The United States, while making its concerns about the agreement known to friendly Central American countries, is not a signatory and thus has assumed the unaccustomed role of bystander. 
r---------------------------~------------------~­
page 4 
Survey 
continued from page 1 
right to the Social Science Lab, are 'graded' (by computers); the results are recorded; then they're destroyed." 
The survey will show if the image of the homogeneity of Notre Dame students is true, said Viz. "There are lots of preconceived notions (about students' attitudes)," he said. "You can 'guesstimate' how most of the students would an­swer by a knowledge of the people around you." He said the survey is not trying to prove or disprove these notions, but is just trying to see if they are legitimate. 
Viz said the key thing is that people return the surveys. "Only if we get a decent response can we really call it a legitimate survey," he said. 
The surveys should be returned to the Social Science Training and Research Labo­ratory by Friday, Nov. 13. 

React 
continued from page 1 
While the University wants to decrease the amount of cheat­ing in the classroom by imple­menting the Honor Code, Ger­lach also sees a dual purpose involved. "This is a device to help moral growth. In the real world if a lawyer witnesses un­lawful and unethical conditions existing to get a criminal off the hook, he has a responsibil­ity to say something" he said. 
The clause in the code which has stirred the most contro­versy is the Non-Toleration Clause. "If a student sees an­other student cheating, then (the witness) has an obligation to tell the professor about the cheating,'' Gerlach said. "If the witness does not say anyth­ing about the cheating, then this person is just as liable as 
Ifyou're abright, ambitious college student, there's no room in your future for adull, nowhere job. 
Come to the!Etna infonna­tion seminat; and we'll introduce you to, opportunitie'l as wide open and stimulating as your own imagination. 
We're amajor player in the changing world offinancial ser­vice'i. With new, non-stop career paths and new challenges opening up almost every day. From product and service marketing to undeiWrit­ing and actuarial to infonnation systems and more. 
Thursday, November 5, 1987
The Observer 


Survey asks wide range of questions 
This is a sample of the 63 survey questions mailed to about 2,000 randomly selec, ted students. The questions are divided into three sec­tions. 
Demographics: 

• 
How do you consider your political views? 

a. 
Liberal 

b. 
Moderate 

c. 
Conservative 



• 
Have you ever seriously considered a religious voca­tion? 

a. 
Yes 

b. 
No 



• 
How many times have you switched your major? 


a. Never b. 1 c. 2 d. 3 e. 4 

• Approximately, how much are you borrowing per year to attend Notre Dame? 
a. 
None 

b. 
$1,500 or less c. $1,500 to 3,000 d. $3,001 to 5,000 


e. 
Over $5,000 per year 


Campus Issues 

• 
How would you rate faculty approachability? 

a. 
Very Good 

b. 
Good 

c. 
Fair 

d. 
Poor 

e. 
Very Poor 



• 
What percent of your study 


time is spent at the library? a. 75-100 percent b. 50-75 percent c. 25-50 percent d. 1-25 percent e. 0 percent 
the cheater," he added. I've never witnessed a student 
Mike Farnan, a junior eco­cheating outright on an exam," nomics major, commented Farnan said. that he would have a hard time Contrary to this, Pat Smith, turning someone in to a profes­a sophomore English major, sor. He added that he does not said he saw students cheating see cheating as a big problem on a test the week before Octo­at Notre Dame. ber break. "It really bothered 
"The code does not really ap­me when I saw those people ply to students here because cheating." most people take a personal Smith said he would report a pride in what they do. In my cheating incident if the rules three years as a student here required him to do so, but he 
MICHIANA'S FINEST & FRESHEST SEAFOOD 
* Served in our warm & casual dining room. 
*Cooked for carrv out. *Styled in at~ractive-party trays. 
~ Cape Cod Cafe 
~ 
&Market 

• What is your preference for parietals? 
a. 
Current limitations 

b. 
Reduced limitations 

c. 
No limitations 



Social Issues 

• 
How often do you drink al­cohol? . 

a. 
Never 

b. 
Once a month 

c. 
Once a week 


d. 
three times a week 

e. 
Every day 




• 
How often do you become intoxicated? 

a. 
Never 


b. 
Once a semester or less 

c. 
Once a month 

d. 
Once a week 


e. 
More than once a week 




• 
How often do you smoke marijuana during the aca­demic year (while a student at Notre Dame)? 

a. 
Never 


b. 
Once per semester 

c. 
Once a month 

d. 
Once a week 

e. 
More than once a week 



• 
Have you ever engaged in premarital sexual inter­course? 

a. 
Yes 

b. 
No 



• 
Have you ever used artifi­cial birth control? 

a. 
Yes 

b. 
No 



• 
Is homosexual activity im­moral? 

a. 
Yes 

b. 
No 




added "I've broken a few rules wouldn't turn that person into in the past." the teacher, but I'd talk to the 
Freshman Kara Hagstrom person outside of the class if I said, "If I would know that saw the cheating more than someone was doing it, I once." 
Applications available for 
STUDENT ONION BOARD SECRETARY 
-be a part of SUB -get involved with steering committee, the planning arm of SUB. 
• 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Board office, 2nd Floor LaF ortune-due Tuesday, November 1 0 
Comelearnaboutabetterwey. At the!Etna infonnation ses­sion, you'llleam you don't have to fit amold to fit into agood job.Just bring us your drive, imagination and aproven de'iire to achieve. Whether you're looking for acaree~ or even an internship, we'll show you how!Etna could be one ofyour life's bigge'lt growth opportunitie'i. 


1i§u§i 

WorkWithThe &<it InThe Business 
Date: November 11 Time: 7:30P.M. Place: University Club 

Thursday, November 5, 1987 
The Observer page 5 

Democrats take key posts 
A hawk sits outside of Keenan Hall, drawing a large crowd to look at it. The hawk is a novelty, especially compared to the hordes of squirrels 
Candidate suffers loss, heart-attack 
~~ma~~................................-.~~~-.......u..,...._.~..~· ~.......................................... 

Associated Press 

Democrats on Wednesday hailed their victories in off­year governors' elections in Kentucky and Mississippi as a "good preview for 1988," while GOP challenger Frank Rizzo defiantly refused to concede defeat to incumbent W. Wilson Goode in Philadelphia's bitter mayoral race. 
Republicans seized on a smaller-than-normal defeat in Mississippi and scattered vic­tories in legislative races around the country to claim a "bittersweet success." 
But the high profile winners were all Democrats, and Govs.­elect Wallace Wilkinson in Ken­tucky and Ray Mabus in Mis­sissippi began planning their new administrations. 
Wilkinson's 65 percent of the vote over Republican State Rep. John Harper gave him the biggest victory margin in Ken­tucky history, and he claimed 
and chi which inundate the ca 
Associated Press 

HOBART, Ind. -Republican mayoral candidate Robert Malizzo suffered a heart attack and went into open-heart sur­gery Wednesday after losing his bid to gain city hall, offi­a mandate to enact a statewide lottery and avoid higher taxes. 
Mabus, who defeated businessman Jack Reed by a margin of 53 percent to 47 per­cent in Mississippi, said his victory was a signal that the South is changing. 
"I think this is a new day for Mississippi," said Mabus, who campaigned as a crusader after a term as auditor spent investigating irregularities by county supervisors around the state. 
Julie Anbender, a Demo­cratic National Committee spokeswoman in Washington, called the election outcome "a good preview for 1988 ... We're extremely pleased. We had ex­pected the gubernatorial vic­tories that we won." 
Frank Fahrenkopf, chair­man of the Republican Party, cited Reed's showing and said, "Mississippi has not elected a Republican governor in 114 years, yet the Democrats were barely able to pull this one out." 
cials said. 

Malizzo was admitted to St. Mary Medical Center in Hobart about 2 a.m. Wednesday, hours after losing the election by 696 votes out of more than 7,600 cast. 
Fred Ott, a hospital spokes­






cJEREMIAH SWEENEY 
Daily and Nightly Specials with &ee munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thru Saturday Across form University 
10:00 pm ·Close Park Mall on Grape Road 
Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers"Clu 
Selections 
Phone 277-6368 6402 Grape Road 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 
~I 
f The E. & J. Gallo Winery r 
tvitesyou::--~ 

Fahrenkopf called the results a "bittersweet suc­cess." But in his statement, he made no mention of the record landslide loss suffered by Har­per in Kentucky, and did not refer to his oft-repeated claims that a national political realignment toward the Republicans is taking shape in the country. 
Kathryn Murray, the GOP's director of communications, noted that Republicans had gained control of the Washing­ton state senate by winning a special election, held control of the New Jersey state assembly and expressed hope that Reed's relatively strong showing could assist the Republicans in their bid to win the seat being vacated next year by Mississip­pi's retiring Democratic Sen. John Stennis. 
In Philadelphia's mayoral race, Goode had 332,396 votes, or 51 percent, to 318,526, or 49 percent, for Rizzo, with only 7 of the 1,739 precincts missing. 
man, said surgeons were per­forming a bypass procedure on Malizzo to return blood flow to his heart. Tests indicated a blood vessel to the heart was completely obstructed, he added. 
Malizzo, 43, was reported in serious condition. 
"They haven't seen the last of the Republican Party in Hobart," Malizzo said after his defeat Tuesday night. "We have to regroup now, evaluate the campaign, and maybe in four years, try it again." 
James Dayhuff, Malizzo's campaign manager, said the candidate began suffering chest pains at home. Barbara Malizzo, the candidate's wife, drove him to the hospital, where he was placed in the in­tensive care unit. 
Dayhuff said Malizzo's heart condition may have been ag­gravated by the campaigning. Marie Caldwell, Hobart Repub­lican chairman, agreed. 
"It was a very strenuous campaign, and he was going all the time. It's bound to be the cause of all the problems now," Caldwell said. 
I 



Thursday, November 5, 1987
page 6 The Observer 

Defector to U.S.S.R. returns to States 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, West Ger­many-A U.S. army private who defected to the Soviet Union seven months ago returned to the West on Wednesday and said he would surrender to American authorities. 
Wade Roberts, 22, said he did not want to return to the Soviet Union but did not know if he would be going to the United 

States.  
Roberts,  who  flew  to  
Frankfurt  from  Moscow  
aboard  an  Aeroflot  jetliner .  

with his pregnant girlfriend, Petra Neumann, told Cable News Network in an interview that he did not expect to be charged with desertion. 
"I have a piece of paper from the United States Embassy that they gave me stating that the only charge that they have against me is for being AWOL," or Away Without Of­ficial Leave, Roberts told CNN. 
Roberts, who was assigned to a post in West Germany when he defected to the Soviet Em­bassy in East Berlin, said two weeks ago he was prepared to go home to face trial on charges of desertion. 
Since then, he had been in ~ontact with the U.S. embassy in Moscow trying to arrange his return to the West. 
Peter Arnett, CNN Moscow bureau chief, accompanied Roberts on the flight and said he was not met by any U.S. mil­itary officials at the Frankfurt airport. 
Roberts was declared AWOL from his unit in West Germany on March 2 and declared a deserter and dropped from the Army's rolls on April 2. 
Neumann, 24, helped Roberts slip across the border into East Germany in the trunk of a rented car in April. 
Roberts told CNN he decided to return and give himself up because of Neumann's preg­nancy. 
"I've got this child coming with Petra, and I really don't feel like I should go around for the rest of my life having a charge . . . from the United States hanging over my head," Roberts said. 


Photochemical follies 
Graduate student Ken Dowling works intently in the bowels of the Stepan Chemistry Building, doing re-
The Observer I Wen Yi 
search in photochemistry. Notre Dame is trying to upgrade the stature of its graduate programs. 

House vote bans lie detectors 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House voted 254-158 Wednesday night to impose a sweeping ban on the use of lie detector tests by most private employers. 
The House acted after reject­ing a substitute bill, 242-169, that would have allowed private polygraph tests to con­tinue under strict new federal guidelines intended to prevent abuses. 
Supporters of the ban, ap­proved and sent to the Senate after more than 10 hours of in­tense debate, charged that polygraph tests were unreli­able and constituted a threat to workers' guarantees against job discrimination. 
House opponents of the bill argued that polygraph tests are a valuable weapon against em­ployee thefts that cost business firms an estimated $40 billion annually. 
The ban, which was sup­ported by organized labor and civil liberties groups, would ap­ply to all private employers, al­though the House approved ex­emptions Wednesday for security guards at sensitive in­stallations and for drug com­pany employees with access to controlled substances. 
Federal, state and local gov­ernments also were exempted, as well as private contractors doing intelligence work for the government. 
The defeated substitute, sponsored by Reps. C.W. Bill Young, R-Fla., and George "Buddy" Darden, D-Ga., would have prohibited polygraph examiners to ask ir­relevant personal questions, and required that test results not be the sole basis for hiring or promotion decisions. 
The Reagan administration and the business community both opposed the ban on private polygraphs, which are ad­ministered each year to about 2 million employees and job ap­plicants. 

Immediate openings for 1987/88 Graduates Engineering, Math/Computer Science, Technical Disciplines (BS/MS) 
When you start your career, there's nothinglike initial success. 
• 

-
-
-



---
-.. 
• ' 
---® 
Wednesday, November 11 
HBM INFORMATION DAY 
Your future in technology could be in software development, technical sales or engineering. 
If you're ready to start a successful career in any one of these creative areas of in­formation technology, come meet our representatives at an informal briefing, and find out more about our current openings. Please bring 4 copies of your resume and, if available, your transcript. 
An equal opportunity employer. U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and intending citizens under the 19861mmigration Reform and Control Act only. 

November 
11 
Athletic Convocation Center Monogram Room 12 noon-Spm 
(Stop by anytime) 

Viewpoint
Thursday, November 5, 1987 page 7 
Roe vs. Wade to fall as science grows 
Every abortion decision involves a conflict of values. The rights of the de­veloping unborn child are in conflict with the rights of the pregnant woman. Every physician who cares for preg­nant women is caring for two patients -the pregnant woman herself and the un­born child. The pregnant woman is fre­quently called upon to act in a way that is primarily oriented toward the wel­fare of her unborn child. She may be asked to optimize her diet, abstain from smoking or drink alcohol in moderation for the purpose of protecting her fetus. She may even be called upon to submit to procedures such as intrauterine transfusion or various fetal surgical measures to improve the condition of the infant without producing any direct benefit to herself. There is some dis­agreement about the ethical obligations of the mother in each instance, but few would claim that a mother may act with callous disregard for the welfare of the fetus. No one would claim, for example, that a woman is free to take Thalidomide during the first trimester of pregnancy. 
Eugene F. Diamond 
guest column 

The long tradition of legal constraints against the practice of abortion in the United States was derivative of English common law, operative in colonial times during the framing of the Consti­tution, and codified into laws of every state for over a century. This tradition was interrupted in 1973 by the Supreme Court in its Roe vs. Wade and Doe vs. Balton decisions. The legalization of abortion was based on a constitutional right to privacy, but it was contingent on a declaration by the Court that the pre-viable fetus lacked personhood. It should be emphasized that the Court was discussing "personhood" in the le­gal sense of standing before the Court. It was not considering personhood in a broader philosophical or metaphysical sense and, in fact, specifically pres­
cinded from a decision as to when life begins. 
The existence of biologically indepen­dent life in the unborn from the time of conception is supported by the follow­ing observations: 
First, human life can be made to begin under in-vitro conditions by the fertilization of an ovum by sperm. 
Second, the zygote and embryo thus produced are independently viable and not "part-of" the Petri dish or the 
uterus into which it will be eventually implanted. Third, criteria necessary for the def­inition of "life" rather than "death" 
(e.g. heartbeat, electroencephalograp­hic activity) are present in the first trimester. 
The unborn child has a unique depen­dency on its mother, but it will continue to be totally dependent on others long after it is born. 
The existence of life is intrinsic and demonstrable. The existence of "per­sonhood" is extrinsic and conferred by consensus, at times, arbitrarily (the Su­preme Court, for example, in the Dred Scott decision declared black slaves to be non-persons or chattel for purposes of the law). The Harvard Conference on Abortion, in both its ethical and medical committees, concluded unani­mously that life begins at fertilization. Expert testimony before the East com­mittee in the Senate regarding the beginning of life fell into two categories: life begins at conception (majority view) or when life begins is uncertain (minority view). 
If we conclude that when life begins is uncertain, we have a serious quan­dary. If we conclude that a human life or a human person does not exist until some arbitrary stage of life after con­ception (quickening, nervous system development, viability, or birth), we may feel free to carry out lethal measures against preborn individuals against whom we have passed this judgement. If we are incorrect, there is no remedy for the individual who has thus suffered a wrongful death. If, on 

.the other hand, we extend protection to all stages in the human continuum, we avoid the wrongful death without causing any injustice to the unborn in­dividual in the process. It has been cus­tomary in other contexts in the Amer­ican experience to act in favor of life where the existence of life is uncertain. When there is a coal mine cave-in, for example, we do not board up the shaft but rather we dig for suvivors. In al­most every instance we continue to dig even when we are morally convinced that the oxygen supply has been long exhausted. It would seem reasonable to act similarly with regard to the un­born child. That is, presume that he qualifies for protection unless and until we can be certain that he is not a live human person. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics, as a child advocate organi­zation, has identified an obligation to the welfare of the unborn patient: First, on page 52 of the Policy Reference Manual, an official Academy statement on the "Age Limits of Pediatrics" states that our obligation begins "in the period prior to birth when conception is apparent." Second, the Academy ac­tively endorsed and participated in the United Nations Year of the Child. The 

U.N. Declaration on the Child states, 
"The Child deserves protection from conception". Third, the Academy has endorsed the development of joint perinatal teams with obstetricians, fur­ther affirming its interest in the fetus as a separate individual. Fourth, various Academy members are deeply engaged in projects involving therapeutic procedures, both medical and surgical, carried out in-utero. It will be difficult to sustain the position that a fetus can be a patient and, at the same time, not a person. 
Recently, in San Francisco, an un­born child had surgery for an obstruc­tive uropathy. He was removed from the womb, operated upon and then returned to the uterine environment. Was he a person while outside the womb and then a non-person when he was placed back in the intrauterine environ­ment? Or, since the procedure involves removing only the lower half of the body from the uterus, did he achieve personhood for his buttocks but not for his brain? This is what the Supreme Court would have us believe. No wonder Supreme Court Justice Sandra O'Connor has stated that the Roe vs. Wade opinion "is on a collision course with itself." As science progresses the ridiculously reasoned legal status of the unborn child as a non-person will in­evitably collapse. Eugene F. Diamond, M.D., is a profes­sor of pediatrics at Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine. 
P.O. Box Q 
Pothole repairs an exemplary solution 
Dear Editor: 
Anyone unfortunate enough to have parked on Green Field in recent weeks can attest to the presence of enormous potholes. These holes often became swamps when it rained and probably could swallow whole a small Yugo with­out leaving a trace. Many students complained to each other, and assumed nothing could be done. 
In late September a committee com­prised of Student Senate members and Cabinet officers was formed to deal with short and long term improvements in student parking. On October 26, 1987 representatives of this conmittee met with Don Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant. When Mr. Dedrick was informed of the condition of Green Field he said he would look into it im­mediately. By Friday, October 30th, many of the potholes had been repaired, although there are still holes where cars were parked. Mr. Dedrick assured us that Green Field would never deteriorate to that condition again. 
The members of this committee, on behalf of all members of student gov­ernment, would like to publicly thank Don Dedrick for his cooperation and concern. If the actions of Mr. Dedrick are any example, the administration has shown its willingness to discuss and act upon legitimate student concerns. We also would like to encourage any students who have a problem or idea to approach their representatives in student government. This is a perfect example of how students can work with Student Government and the Adminis­tration of Notre Dame. 
The Student Government Committee on Parking 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The ObMrver is the Independent newspaper published by the students ol the Univerlity ol Notre Dame chi Lac and Saint Mary'a College. H don not necessarily rellecl the policies of the administration ol either inltltutlon. The News ia reported u accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editonals repre11111t the opinion ol the majority ol the Editorial Board. Commentaries. leners and the Inside Column present the views ol their authors. Column space 11 available to all members of the school community, and the lrM expression ol varying opinions on campus. through lenars, Ia encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief .......................... ........... Kevin Becker BUIJnea Manager ............................ Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Marl! Pankowski Advertising DN/gn Manager ........... D8Vid Culligan News Editor .................................... Chris Bednarski Advertlalng Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager...................... MelliN Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projectl Manager......................... Mark Mcl.aughNn Sports Editor .................................. Oenni1 Corrigan Sy.trlm8 Mtmager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schlndele Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic At1s Manager...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November3, 1118 

Ace
Thursday, November 5, 1987 

Council volunteers are dedicate 

THERESA LOOMIS accent writer 
T
he Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded has played an integral role in shaping the recreational pro­gram offered by South Bend's Logan Center. The Logan or­ganization satisfies various needs for the retarded commu­nity through Its pre-school, adult rehabilitation, and resi­dential programs. Ever since the center was founded in 1968, student involvement has centered on a Saturday recrea­tion program and weekly bowling. 
The council is led by co­presidents Dennis Hughes and Marie Mellin. Hughes says the council's main purpose is "to promote more social behavior in the clients." Their relation­ships in the community are broadened by bringing them Into contact with people other than immediate family and friends. 
Other goals include providing a therapeutic program in which skills can be developed, provid­Ing recreation in which relaxa­tion and cooperation can be learned, and promoting aware­ness about mental retardation by dispelling myths and misin­formed attitudes. 
The Saturday morning recreation program extends from 9 to 11 :30 a.m. and is held at the Logan Center. Lo­cated at 1235 North Eddy Street the site is within short walking distance from campus. These student run sessions are informal and Include activities such as singing, arts and crafts, and games. 

Clients taking advantage of this program vary in age, func­tioning ability, and back­ground. They include children and adults from Corvilla Home and the Northern Indiana State Hospitai(NISH), as well as others living in home environ­ments who attend Logan edu­cational programs or work at Logan Industries, a workshop employing 300 people in pack­aging, operating machinery, or cleaning. 
"'People go into this thinking they'll do a lot of giving, but they end up receiving. " 
Some clients are wheelchair bound or profoundly retarded while others have had fairly normal experiences but are learning desabied. 
Student volunteers have in­Itiated several new develop­ments this year. In the past, games and crafts tended to be geared toward lower function­ing clients. Now, however, proj­ects on both low and high levels are offered so that ail clients can participate and will be attracted to those better suited to their interests. 
Also this year, the higher functioning clients are being encouraged to work with children from NISH. In this manner the clients act as su­pervised volunteers them­selves. "Previously," comments Hughes, "some of the older clients formed separate little cliques. Now that they're in the capacity of 'teacher', they are more involved." 
Hughes feels that the Special Olympics, which was held on campus this summer, is one reason for the expansion expe­rienced this year. As a result of the visibility, more people are aware of the programs and are volunteering to help. 
Bill Thomas, Logan's liaison with the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded, agrees that the Olympic games have had a positive effect. "Increased gen­eral understanding of handi­capped people has been the biggest result in the communi­ty." 
Occasionally, the council or­ganizes special activities for Saturday recreation. For exam­ple, one Saturday the group visited a farm. The session was extended to 2:30p.m. and will include a picnic lunch. 
Other special activities in­clude field trips, overnight camping excursions to Mic­higan, Christmas parties, one home football game per season, and monthly theme dances at Logan Center. 
The volunteers always have a 

The ObservePMike Moran 
At Logan Center's Halloween Dance, Tracy Brunner doesn't mind dancing with a witch. 

-j
The Obsetvel)'!ll Moran 

Jackie DITelle feels safe In the arms of volunteer "Clark Kent." 
party after these dances. Says 
Hughes, "The volunteers be­
come a social unit. The fact 
that we're friends positively 
affects the way we enjoy rec 
and the way the clients enjoy 
rec." 
Funding for the council's ac­tivities comes from many places. Half of the budget is derived from a trust at the uni­versity. The remainder comes from the Center for Social Con­cerns, Student Activities at ND and SMC. and donations from outside sources. Some of the special activities, such as the camping trip and dances are quite expensive. Commfnts Hughes, "Those are not small matters for us to operate." 
He continues, "We do a lot of financial planning, organizing, and training. We've been in­volved a long time and are an integral part of Logan's pro­gram. They couldn't offer everything they do without our cooperation. We enjoy a good reputation and recieve a favor­able response. That speaks well of us as a school and also of our student leadership. 
That's pretty impressive. It's 
not something every campus 
could boast." 
Generally, between 50 and 60 students volunteer each Sat­urday. Some Saturdays entire groups volunteer their time. Last year the football team and its head coaches, the hockey team, Shenanigans, and the Glee Club participated in rec periods at Logan Center. Fac­ulty, staff, and graduate stu­dents also contribute. 
However, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are not the only volunteers. Students from Indiana University--South Bend and Holy Cross College, interested adults of the com­munity, and young people in­volved in local confirmation programs are active partici­pants too. 
Countless reasons exist for 
people's desire to volunteer 
with the retarded. Says 
Hughes, "When you go you can almost regress back to child­
hood. When volunteers see ad­
vancements in clients--changes 
in behavior or greater personal 
discipline--it's really amazing 

The Accent~ Department 
is looking for enthusiastic people with experience in features writing 
or editing for the following positions: 
Assistant Features Editor 
Features Copy Editor 
Applications are due Friday, Nov. 6 by 3 
p.m. Contact Mike Naughton at 239-7471 for more information. 



nt 
page a-9 




friends at 
and makes the program worth the effort. I know I'm helping when I see that they're able to Improve. I know that It works." 
"God brings the people he wants to volunteer. I try not to be pushy. We get enough people to keep the program running. If they e'l]oy It, they come back. It's worked well for 20 years. The clients think It's fantastic." 
Bill Thomas of the Logan organization also supports this sentiment. 'The students can serve the people on a more Individual basis. A lot of friendships are made--real friendships, something that carries over ... The volunteers and clients remember each other, even after the students graduate." 
Christine Hartman, a co­captain of the bowling program says, "They all love Notre Dame students because, every time they meet, the students are doing something for them." Client Ted Puchala Is a prime example. He Is known as "Mr. ND" because of his unbounded enthusiasm for ND football and his wide array of clothing carry­Ing the ND Insignia. He admits that singing the flght song Is one of his favorite parts of Sat­urday recreation. 
Volunteers for the bowling program meet In the lobby of Pasquerllla West at .3:45 p.m. on Friday afternoons and return by 6:00 p.m. They do the scoring for the bowlers but cheering Is just as Important. 
Paul 1\elly, the other co­captain, believes a neat aspect of Involvement Is that "people go Into this thinking they'll do a lot of giving but they end up receiving." 
All volunteer leaders stress the point that new volunteers are always welcome. Everyone 

How to buy sunken 
Associated Press 
NORTH MIAMI BEACH, Fla. ­Why dream about searching for treasure at the bottom of the sea or a ship that went down In a violent storm, asks Sidney Simon, when he has 18 such ves­sels for sale? 
"Even a scuba diver would have a ball with any of these," said Simon, who describes him­self as the "human dynamo of eastern Canada." 
The sunken or abandoned ships he owns, Simon admitted, will not produce gold and sliver treasures, but the 70-year-old businessman promises that, as salvage, they are worth a fortune. 
"Why search for the Republic when you can buy one of mine and go for the real cash?" asked Simon, referring to current ef­forts to salvage the 600-foot RMS republic that sank off Nantucket Island, Mass., In 1909 with an estimated $1.2 billion In valu­ables on board. 
Most of Simon's wrecks are In relatively shallow waters off his native Nova Scotia, having run aground or struck sunken reefs can flnd their own level of In­volvement. Volunteers do not have to promise any particular time commitment. 
Says Hartman, "We would never say 'no, you can't volun­teer enough time.' We can make use of time If you're will­Ing to give lt. If that means once a month--terrlflcl I have the most fun doing it. It's my hobby. I don't have any great 
between 1900 and 19.35. Al­
though some are broken In half, 
Simon claims they are mostly In­
tact. Some are partially visible 
from the surface. 
None of his ships are small, 
said Simon, a Canadian citizen 
who also has a residence here. 
They are mostly freighters, but 
he also owns what's left ofa 4 70­
foot hospital ship and a four­
stack World War !-vintage U.S. 
destroyer. 

There are only two conditions to buy one of his wrecks, ex­plained Simon, president of Trans World Slag and Metals Co.: "cash up front and only U.S. dol­lars." 
Records Simon has Indicate most of the ships carried coal, lumber or salt or were empty when they went down. However, some apparently carried general or unrecorded cargoes when they sank. Their value, he said, Is In scrap metal, flttings and en­gine parts he contends have been preserved by salt water. "And there's the copper tubing," he added with a smile. 
One ship has a solid bronze propeller weighing 25 tons, he 


Logan 
quotes...just tell them to 
come." 

For more Information on the 
Saturday recreation program or 
on the Council for the Retarded 
In general, contact Dennis 
Hughes(-4075) at Notre Dame 
or Marie Mellin(-5526) at Saint 
Mary's College. If Interested In 
helping with bowling, contact 
Paul Kelly(-2252) or Christine 
Hartman(-2955). 

treasure 
said. "Just dig away the sand and cut the shaft and there's $50,000," he continued. "Someone could make a killing." 
Most of the ships were pur­chased from the Canadian gov­ernment or Insurance compan­Ies by his father, the late John Simon, and passed on to him In 1948. 
Simon also owns millions of tons of old white slag and coke breeze at two abandoned steel mills he has In Londonderry and Ferona, Nova Scotia. 
Slag Is a steel mill byproduct used to make building and In­sulation materials, asphalt, glass and for nourishing oyster beds. Coke breeze Is the residue of the manufacture of coke and used to make charcoal briquettes. 
Simon also speculates some of his ships might be refloated with the help of a large salvage ship. 
As to a price for any ofSimon's ships, he said, "Make me an of­fer. What's It worth to you?" The m<Uorlty of the ships would have to be bought sight unseen. "I couldn't see them either when I bought them," he said. 



The honor code: Will it work'? 



Compiled by Cara Anthony and Kathy Ellis Photos by Zoltan Ory 
"It's a really, really bad Idea. The Idea of everyone being honest Is nice, but my experience has always been that when given the opportu­nity, people will take advantage. I don't think that should surprise anyone. " 
Andy rena Cavanaugh Hall Junior 
"I think It's a good Idea. It gives us more responsibility, which Is good." 
Larissa Wenning Lewis Hall freshman 

"1 think that the proposed honor code could work, but It will take a while. I'll be well graduated by the time It gets to the point where It works sufficiently. " 
John Padgett rtsher Hall Sophomore 
"I don't like It at all. I don't think the students will abide by lt. I don't know If each person can answer now what they'd do In a pressure situation. " 
Clark Howard flanner Hall Sophomore 

"I think It's a good Idea as long as people don't use It as a means to cheat. " 
Jim Milligan St. Edward's Hall Sophomore 
"I don't really think It will work. People will cheat and no one will want to get Involved with telling on others." 
Karen Croteau Breen·Phllllps Hall Sophomore 
"It's up to the professors them­selves. I could see It not working or working, depending on the atti­tudes of the students. If the teach­ers feel confident enough to use It, then I think It's fine. Personally, I don't think It's needed. " 
Janette Smith Off-campus Junior 


"I think It's a good Idea as long as everybody In the class agrees to it. I don't think anyone should be forced to participate. I think It will work In smaller Arts and Letters classes where you have essay tests, but I don't know how well it will work on multiple choice tests. " 
Pam Smith Lyons Hall Junior 


-
Thursday, November 5, 1987

page 10 The Observer 
n......._Not!W Dame offtce, located on the thlld floor of LaFortune Stu­dint Centlr, ~claalfled edwerllllng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 1hnlugll FttdaJ. n.'*-"rSelnt a..y. office, located on the thln:l ftoor of Hligg8r Collge Cent•. eccepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for nut-d-r claalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claalfleda muat


Classifieds 
be jnplld, either In peraon or by mall. The cherge Ia 10 cents per five 
~~ct.y. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Typing 237·11148 or 277-8131 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
Soon the Prophecies of the Invasion of ls-I and the Great Earthquake will be fulfilled (cl. Ezekiel 38, Daniel12). Form· lng a community, ae~·sulllclent In food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the oomlng destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4<475, Sou1h Bend, Indiana 46634­4<475 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER,~~ 
Chimes is now accepting plays, poems, and short stories. Subm~ to Chimes, Engi.Oept. Am 303 Madeleva Hall 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST-Gold Cross and Chain Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
Lost ·dark blue beckpack either In Fitzpatrick or LaFortune. Contains book on Harry Truman and an address book. Reward Hfound. Contact Evan at x5699 during day. 
I found a swatch W' two gold rings on Sou1h Quad. ~ they are yours, call me at 3722. 
Lost: Swatch watch and two rings ·one pearl and one opal. Please give me a call ~ they tum up. Char X4064 
LOST: On October 29 I lost a watch with a black leather strap and a gold lace somewhere between Pasquerllla East and Cartier Field. II you have found ~. PLEASE call Elizabeth at 4281. 
II you took my Lavl's jean jacket (M. C. Kraft label inside) from Far-ley's U2 bus, call1891 to trade~ lor your CS&CO jean jackal. 
FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS··CALL £27Hl575 AND ASK FOR AMY TO IDENTIFY 
Lost Lost Lost Lost One Georgetown 87 Class Ring, USC Weekend II found call 4174 Reward Reward Reward Reward 
FOR RENT 
Leaae this 2BR apartment now lor spring aemester and move In anytime.$ 325-tno. Includes utilities. Call 232·9239. 
Now showing lor IYWI8-!YIAI9 lease. 6BA, 2 bath houae on bus line. Call 232· 9239. 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
PAINTER WANTED: NEAT PAINTER WANTED TO PAINT CLOSETS, ETC. IN MY HOME. YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR OWN HOURS. I HAVE APPAOX. 40e HOURS OF WORK. PAYING $4.ootiR. CALL 282·1935, AFTER 6:30 PM. 
HELP WANTED Retail Sales Person Needed for local reoord store. Previous retail experlenca preferred. 25 hour per week position. Bring resume to: Tracka 1631 E. Edison. NO phone calls, please. 
WANTEOII Two gred students need six GA's lor Alabama game-not necsssarily together. Please call 263·3090 nyou can help. Our out-of-town relatives are willing to PAYI 
WANTED: An NO letter jacket (blue W' gold sleeves) Call £2799 
I UGENTL Y NEED A AIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL JAMES, 3133 
FOR SALE 
For S.le ·2 United Alrllnee round-trip tlcketa to anywhere In the contll*!llll 
U.S. 1200 M or beat offer. Cell Tr.ce m277-1m. 
JVC RC-880 portable boom box; like new, best offer; Jay x2072 
Zenith owners: Microsoft Word 3.0, Microsoft Windows, GW-BASIC and EMS Memory Upgrade kit, Including all manuals and warranties, all new and un­opened. $150 the lot. Call Gerry x.7125 before 5pm. 
airline Ux to MIAMI FL from Ohare onaway 11124 $100 and ride beck tom 2016 

SNOW TIRES ... Never used. Fit VW Bug, and probably many other compact cars. Call 277·5719 and leave message. 
································································ 
AT-Ticket PAN AM CHIC·MIAMI,any tlme,$280,234 4948 alter 8p.m. 
................................................................ 
HEY SKI BUMSI SALOMAN SX70 BOOTS FOR SALE MEN'S SIZE 8 11.2 CALL CHRIS 272-8689 
TICKETS 

...........-.............................. 
NEED 1 QA FOR BC CALL SHAWN AT 2235
............................................. 
HELPI II 1 don't get 4 BC GA's pronto, I will be billed lor airfare and hotel lor lour angry NO fans this weekend! Call Mark at 1536. You'll be glad you did. 
*********************************
................................. 
1 really, really, really need 1 Alabama ticket. 
Student or GA will do. Call John at 283· 2445. 
*********************************
................................. 
..................................................... 
BOSTON COLLEGE OA'1 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered lor BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1489 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287·4561 alter 6pm. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 
I NEED QAI FOR ALL HOME OAMES.272-8306 
NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA VI. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-9480 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 2811-4494 AFTER 5 PM. 
NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS X2800. 
NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe alter 6pm at 287-4561 
HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067 
NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-8282. MS$$. 
NEED BC TICKETS! MUST HAVE 2 STUDENT OR GAs Call Marty at 239·7569 
Need 4 Boston C.-NO tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233· 2651. 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUOSI Call John 271·0939 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call £1852, ask lor Bryan. Will pay $$$. 
I NEED ABC STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S STAFF CALL STEVE X1654 
BC student or GA ticket needed, call Dave x1589 
BOSTON COLLEGE NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JEFF £1453 
WANTED: 8 ND ve ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 283-5821 FROM 8-5 PM. 
Old your parents lose money In the stock market? Mine didn't so they have LOTS of CASH lor ANY BC TICKETS! Call MIKE at 4245 
I need 3 BAMA tickets! Will pay big bucks. Astrella 271-9438 
I need 2 BC tickets! Student or GA. Please call Astreiia 271-9438 
I NEED 2 'BAMA TIXI $$$ NO OPTION. CALL TEO 287 ·5541 
NEED ALABAMA TIX BAD X3137 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON x2519. 
I NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 3347AI 
HELPIII I NEED B.C. TIXS STUD. OR GA WILL DO CALL 1663 
NEED ONE B.C. STUD. TICKET FOR THE CHICK CALL PAT 271·0463 
BC & ALABMAIIII NEED STUD TIX FOR BOTH GAMES. FRIENDS MUST SEE NO PLAY FOR FIRST TIMEt CALL JOHN AT 3451 
NEED 6BAMA GA's. CALL4199. $$$$$ I HAVE: TWO BC GA'S, BUT NEED 'BAMA GA'S INSTEAD. WOULD PREFER TO TRADE BUT WILL SETTLE FOR LARGE AMOUNTS OF CASH IF NO TRADE AVAIL. INTERESTED? CALL JEFF AT Xt802 
Desperately need 2 BC OA'e Kevin X2343 
South Bend native would like parents to see HOMEGROWN HERO A.Johnson play. I need 2 or 4 GA's lor B.C. II you can help, call Craig at 234·7018. 
Looking lor 2 BC tlx (stud or GA) Will pey lor them or trade Barna tix. Call Usa £1319 
HELP! NEED 1 BAMA GA. PLEASE CALL KAREN £4675. 
I have B.C. G.A.'al 50 yardersl Will trade ONLY lor GOOD 'BAMA G.A.'S. CALL Rob 'i106 NOWII 
BAMA TIXS Can guarantee $30 min Call Paul1424 
HEY "TAILGATEASI I REALLY NEED ONE ALABAMA TICKET FOR MY YOUNGER BROTHER WHO HAS NEVER SEEN A NO FOOTBALL GAME. WHY NOT PARTY YOURSELF INTO OBLIVION WITH THE KNOWLEDGE THAT YOU WONT"T MISS THE GAME FROM BEING A LmLE TOO BLOTTO? SELL ME YOUR TICKET (STUDENT OR GA) INSTEAD. I'LL PAY LOTS 0' $$$$$. CALL SEAN MCCARTHY AT 288·1842 EVENINGS. 
Need: B.C. TIX (GA or Studs) Call Nick at 32'14 
I NEED 2 B.C GA'S CALL ERIN X4208 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 BAMA GA. WILL SPENO BIG $$$. CALL JOHN 1076. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO BC STUD TIX OR GA'S. CALL TODD AT 2937. 
I NEED 3 GA'S FOR BC. CALL 284-5626 OR 272·1988 
NEED B.C. STUDENT AND G.A. TIX I PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 2464. 
NEED BC TIX -GA OR STUD. GREG x3070 
Need 1 B.C. GA will pay top dollar. ask lor Rob at 234·71881 
Need 4 GAs lor Alabama lor my brother, his wile and 2 children. Willing to pay a reasonable amount over cost. 284·5666 
PLEASE HELPI I need 2 GAs lor BC. $$1 Call Ellen x3950. 
I need Alabama GA's and stud tlx. xt118 Ken. 
NEED 4 BC GA'a MATT 287·9770 
I NEED ONE BC GA FOR DOMER DAD I PLEASE CALL MAURINE AT 2604 
NEED BAMA GA'S BAD $$$ $$$ CALL 
JIM 263·3669 $ 

•••••••••••••••••••••••._....., I NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S PHONE STEVE AT 289·6706 
Desperately need two G.A. tickets lor Boston College game. Call Katie 284· 436!;1 
WANTED: 2,4 or 6 BC G.A.'s Big Money. Call Frank X2161 
Friend up from Indy. I need one BC ticket Call Char X4064. 
Need 6 Boston College Tickets. Ask lor MikEl Clark 272·3763 
Hei~ol Need B.C. GA's lor lonely parents BIG $1 Call Fred 288·2032 
I HAVE 12 BAMA GA TICKETS FOR SAL.E. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE CALL 291· 7649 
B.C. QA'e FOR SALE 282·2977 
NEED 2 ALABAMA QA'S.277·7582 
1 BC STUD TIX, 1 BAMA STUD TIX $30 A PC. X4333 
I will trade a BAMA stud lor a BC stud I will buy 2 BC GAs. Please call Brian at x1000 
WIL.L TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2 ALA· BAMA TICKETS CALL 2734 
TRADE 1 B.C. G.A. lor 1 BAMA G.A. Call LORI--·2516 
•••••••• Need Alabama GA's or Stud Call John at 2236 
Ne1od 2 BC GA'S Call Erin 2732 
HELPI TERRORISTS holding my family hostage lor 1 BAMA STUD TIK PLEASE CALL MIKE 3198 
BAMAI Need 4 Alabama GA or student tickets. Call JA at 283-1538. 
BC:: 

I need one student ticket lor the BC game. Call Kendra at 283·3464. 
PL.EASE HELP! I need one etud. tlck81 or QA for the 'BAllA game CALL KAREN 3391 
Help Pleaselll I need 3 or 4 B.C. Tlxll Will pay CASH I Call 1793 todaylll 
PLEASE ... My lather and sister are com· ing and we have no tickets for B.C. or Alabama. II you got em call Mark at 232· 9112. 
................................................................ 
NEED 1 BC GA FOR DAD JOE 2366 
WANTED 2 GA's for the BC or Alabama Game call Doug at 1623 
HELP MEl I desperately need 2 BC G.A.'sl Please call Mike at 4259. 
NEED 2 ALABAMA TIX NOT MY$$, GET IT? CALL PETE 233·9660 
Need 2 Barna GA's $$ Mark x2447 
Don Pardo, What do we have behind DOOR £1? Well, Monte, we have 2 B.C. G.A.'s Want to trade them lor 2 'Barna G.A.'s Let's Make a Deal -Tom x3260 
Sell me your BC tlxl (312)593·7900 x2112 
Heipl Helpl Help! I need 4 Barna tickets badiyl Student or GA. Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP ··THE DREAM STARTS WITH MOM AND DAD GETTING 2 BAMA GA'S. CALL JB AT 4681 
ANYBODY WANT A BAllA STUDENT TICKET??? 
BEST MONETARY OFFER 
CALL ANN £4071 
HELPIII NEED 1 BC STUD. TIC. CALL MARK 288-3421. 
need 3 Alabama GA's ... Please call Carol at 271·0668 
NEED ALABAMA TIX need 2 GA'a and 1 Student will TRADE B.C. Student call CHARLIE 271·0522 
Need BC Student nxs I Diane 413214126 
PINK FLOYD TIX Nov. 12, Indy Hoosier· dome Call Tom £1062 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
LAST CHANCEl Limited lpilce remelnl on Notre Dame Winter Ski Break• to StumbOII, Vall, Winter Perk and Breckenridge for ltve or uven nlghtl deluxe lodging, lilt tleklll, mounlllln bertllcue, 1kl r-end mor• from only $154. Optional air end cherter bu1 tren1por!tltlon evell1bll. Hurry, cell SuncheM Toura toll lrM lor lull dllllle end color brochure, 1· 800-321·5911 TODAY! 
Alders needed to WASH. D.C. to share costs and company lor weekend of Nov. 
7. Call Rich x1765. 
SORIN HALL'S IIIIth ANNUAL TALENT SHOW 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th AT8:30 PM ON THE FRONT STEPS OF SORIN COLLEGE 
Desperately need 2 BC Ux and 3 'Barna tlx, student or GA. Kevin 1665 
ARE YOU LONGING FOR COM· PANIONSHIP? well come to the Regina Hall Mixer Fri. 8·11 pm Regina Lounge 6 tl~5 or $1 each procseds to United Way AND you may never be lonely againllll 
Thank you, St. Jude 
Kelly O'Brien 
Roses are red, 
Violets are blue, 
Happy 2oth B-dayll 
We love youll 
·the gang 
JO What would you do II we were put In prison? ·LH,KF,KS,LL 
RECORD-A· TUNE RECOAD·A·TUNE SINO LEAD TO YOUR FAVORITE TUNES, BACKED BY THE ORIGINAL ARTISTS.LTUES,NOV 10 AT SENIOR BAR SIGN UP AT SUB 
ATTENTION ALL ART LOVERS: You don't have to be an artist to appre· elate great art, nor do you have to be an artist to be a pert of this organization! The STUDENT LIAISON COMMITTEE wants you to get Involved. Come to the SNITE Board Room Nov.5 at 5:30 II you are interested I 
............................................................... 
HELPII I'm in desperate need of a ride to Pittsburgh area lor cousins wedding on November 14. I would like to leave 11113 and retum 11115. Pleaae call Mary £4002. 
It's Kelly O'Brien's birthday today! I know everyone will be wishing her happy birthday So I will too. 
Happy Birthday Kellyl Shakey 
II you need $$$ to make a trip down to the Bloomington area, I need a ride to andotlr from Indiana University. Call Brian at 3625. I need ride this weekend. 
DEAR KELLY 0'· WE WISH YOU A BIRTHDAY AS SPE· CIAL AS YOU ARE. 
LOVE, 

DAD & MOM 
DEAR KELLY 0'· WE WISH YOU A BIRTHDAY AS SPE· CIAL AS YOU ARE. 
LOVE, 

DAD & MOM 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE LOVE AND BEST WISHES ALWAYS MOM, DAD, CATH, ANGIE, BILL, PEETY. 
P.S. CLEAN YOUR ROOM! 
Quarter beers every Wed. CLUB 23 
.75 cants all beer cans every Thur. at Club 23. 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.75 
cants all beer cans every Thur. at Club 
23........................................... 
.75 cents all beer cans every Thur. at Club 23. 
Dr. Whoopie has come to NOt Gettin' a little hot, want to be safe? Well, call Or. Whoopie lor quick delivery of needed protection. Call 2921 or 4644. Think sale sex. 
remember the suburbs 
HELP-Rich brother coming to see Ala· bama game-He'll pay BIG MONEY lor GA or stu.ticket-Piease sell him your ex· tra one-call Katy 271-0924 
And suddenly I noticed more and more people carrying pink backpacks. But they were only cheap copies of original. 
I need a ride to Kansas City, MO lor Thanksgiving and will share expenses. Please call Theresa-2738. 
DESPERATLY NEED RIDE TO DAYTON 0. ON "AI NOV 6 SHARE EXP. CHUCK 288 5447 
Joe, We are too cheep to buy you a real gilt so we got this ad HAPPY BIATHOAYIIII T Weg and Book-em OanO 
SENIOR I JUNIOR CLASS MASS • SUNDAY, 11:30AM ·DILLON HALL 
JUNIOR I SENIOR CLASS MASS • SUNDAY !1:30AM -DILLON HALL 
Bring your money to 416 Stanford. I'm accspting all bets on Fisher Hall In this weeks loss to Stanlord. Since I'm a nice guy, I'll give 12.5 points. PUT UP OR SHUT UPIII 
....BIF***"' 
My second wish Spl/sh splash I was taking a bath/ A warm, bubbly bubblebsth (In a clean tub) with a glass of champagne, soft music, a neck pillow, rubber ducky and a fluffy towel. This Is to be folowed by a back massage and a cozy evening. 
P.S. My fins/ wish tomorrow.
......... 
BAICK,BAUL,GRIS,BUB&HOE YOU GUYS ARE ZPOONHEADS ·BETE 
Joe and Romano I know this will be "a dream come true" lor both of you, so I just had to buy you Gatsby-iike cars. Just my way of thanking you lor thoae great italian dinners--Happy Birthday! Trish 
To the hippy rag-bags of third platoon Alpha: YOU ARE SO WRONG 
FERRIS, KJ, MACKINSTEIN, GOOCH: Chi-Chi's was a blast! Thanx for a great time. Love, TC P.S. Do I know how to pick my mayors or what? 
DEAREST JIMI (as in BEAM), We,the BARBARIANS, were fortunate enough to have had a good Samaritan read your flowery letter FOR us.Thanks lor the in· kiYou have inspired us to greater heights than ever before! Come on down & IM· BIBE with us anytime! LOVE, THE HOOLIGANS 
Hii:.\riiE:ii":.\ri<iNsaN·~~~-~~~~·;'·~;·;h~ 
smc '91 dog book ·does that answer your question? Will somE• Come Here IIIII 
ATTENTIONII Four friends are coming up from the U. of Alabama to watch their team get slaughtered II Need lour tickets or my a· ·Is grassll Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
Some say that body odor is the window to the soul -but that's not important now. What is Important is that I need 4 (lour) tickets to the Barna game. Student or GA. Will pay. Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
BOOM BOOM AIN'T IT GREAT TO BE CRAZY? 
A.M.S. IN MY COBOL CLASS, I WAS WONDERING IF YOU ARE SPOKEN FOR, BUT ·HOPEFUL 
Hey Katie ... Your the most from coast to ooastlll Steve ATTENTION N.D. STUDS! 5'7" blond needs help getting over a man. Can you help? Please send letters andtlr flowers to: "She Lost That Lovin' Feeling" 218 Badin (will be forwarded) 
TONY FIORI ·Saw your GREAT body· could hardly contain myself! 
KATHY NEE· What'l • •w-t girl like you doing at N.D.? Why not come South where 11'1 warm ·mlu you too much. Thank• lor thl beet yur 10 ler... HAPPY AN­NIVERSARY. 
Love 1nd XXOOXX, 
Benjamin 
P.S. ·Have a Happy Bundey, Jal· lybun? 
TONIGHT ST. EDWARD'S HALL ACA· DEMIC COMMISSION INVITES YOU TO HEAR PROFESSOR KEVIN SCANLON SPEAKING ON: ''THE STOCK MAR· KET CRASH: HOW DID IT HAPPEN? ...AND WHAT ABOUT THE FUTURE?" THIS TALK WILL BE GIVEN TONIGHT AT 8:00PM IN ST. ED'S FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE. ALL ARE WELCOME. 
I would like to thank Father "Monk" Mal· loy, Lou Holtz, the Football Staff, my Team Members, Alumni Hall, my Fellow Students, and the whole Notre Dame Family lor all that you have done lor my family and myself through our time of need. Thank You I Love You All Pernell Taylor 
Kim and Katie Are we going to do a lip­sync? ·the Boy 
Betsy-Thanks lor helping me find 
myaell ... -Tom 
congratulations david anthony---any bro­ther of mine with a sister like me inher~s great luck with the opposite sex. 
Kim UAOUTOFIT··Ifl don't see my loot­ball and a smile plastered on your laca­·be prepared lor practical joke £1-guess who? 
A squared Thanks Love Me 
Today is LITTLE MARGARET's 18th BirthdayII Send her a teddy bear (so she won't steal Megan's) OR give her a call at 46741 
Just when you thougt it was safe to read the personals... 
Mahgaret, Happy Birthday,OAHLINGII'm SO looking forward to seeing you at Christmas. I'll be waiting with diamonds in hand. Cheerio, David 
Margaret. We've all been wa~ing "on line" to wish you a happy birthday. Don't get too "zooted" tonight or you may end up with "hickeys on your butt"ll "Oh,how RUDEl" 
I wora that Irish shirt because I look good, damn good. I've never been to Ireland but have you ever been to NIAVANAIII Just kidding, thanks lor the ad. 
A champagne glass, a body cast. now show us the teeth again. The Candy Cane and the Russian Revolution 
OJ Romano, I just wanted to say thanks again lor Tuesday nightll Mint chocolate chip is my FAVORITE flavor! See ya around soon . 
Stephanie-I had a GREAT time last night and am looking forward to tomorrow! Let"s go out and get something tomorrow night alter the show, huh ? How about some tasty bailey-maff sandwiches with my folks ( synonymous with beer, get ~ ? ) afterwards ? ·Chris 
Thanks to all of my friends In Lewis, Zahm, & even Stanford lor a great b-day. Love Patty 
Novena to St. Jude 0 holy St. Jude, apostle and martyr, great In virtue and rich In miracles, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful intercas-isor of all who In· voke your special patronage In time of need, to you I have recourse, and from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition (petition). In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Amen. Say 3 "Our Father"'s, 3 "Hail Mary"'s, and 3 "Gioria"'s lor 9 consecutive nights. Your request will be granted by the end of those 9 days. This novena has never been known to fail. 
TERRIE'S TYPING 
word procassing 
resumes 
laser printing 
close to campus 
1.50(ss) 1.25(ds) 
287·1263 
I need a ticket lor 'bama-either stud or GA. Call 264·5272 
Aide needed to and from MN lor Thanks­giving. Can leave alter 3pm Monday. Katie & Kelly 4-5456. 
Ex-Purdue Hunk In S.ge-EHave you ever been obsessed? I AMI Deviichild 
................................................................ 
Wlbbmeleter: 
There is extra room in the personals. 


-

~-------------~---------, 
November 5, 1987 The Observer 

GfRESH <FROZEN 
GJ>RIME CHICKEN 
..~~~~M· 
t9tr--,.._,. ~
7 

c:t'.fo-­
8 

Stoek Up on Baking Needs 
Evaporated Milk, 12 oz. .............39f': Arm & Hammer Baking Soda, 16 oz. 39f': Marshmallow Creme, 7 oz. . . . . 49t: Ground Cinnamon, 1.75 oz...... . ....59f': Powdered or Brown Sugar, 21b. .79f': Pre-Creamed Shortening, 42 oz. .....89f': White Syrup, a2 oz........ . ......... 89f': Pure Chocolate Chips, 12 oz. ..99f': Baking Cocoa, 8 oz. . ......................99f': Shredded Coconut, 14 oz................99f': Seedless Raisins, 15 oz..................99f': Walnut Pieces, 6 oz. . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. SJ19 Bordo Dates, 8 oz. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. ... SJ49 
FrUits & Vegetables Fruit Cocktail, chooce 
..19"" 

quality. heavy syrup. 16 oz . . • • • ... ~ Applesauce 
..19"" 

grade A laney. 25 oz .. .. • • • .. .... ~ 
~r:,n~~~~~. ~~~.~~...........4 9e Hawaiian Pineapple, laney quality. sltced. chunk. crushed 
59e 

ruoce pack. 20 oz ............. . California Peaches 
59"' 

1rregular. light syrup, 29 oz • • . . • .,_. 
11

~ho~~r~. ~~~ .~ . ~~~~ ..........79e :~~as.~~~~.~.~.~~·r·r·'~.s ......79e ~.~:~·~~~~co~ .............J9e ~h~~~ ~~~~~ .................29e 
Yams 
J9""

grade A laney. 16 oz ... .. .. .. . ~ 
These are not weekly specials. These are everyday ALDI®low prices. 
929N. Eddy South Bend, IN 
Mon.· Thurs.: 10om· 7pm Friday: 9am · 8pm Salurday: 9am · 6pm Closed Sunday 
1 

~e~~~c~ ~soz ..............J9e ~e~~h:~.~:': 4 oz ..........39e ~~~~~ .:~~a~~~ 5 ...........39e 
Asparagus 
79"" 

grade A laney. 14.5 oz .. .. .. .. . ~ 
Grade A Fancy Ves!etables 
whoFe' kernel or ---~:!Iii cream style corn, cut green beans, sweet peas 
15.5-16.5 oz. 
3207 Llncolnway West South Bend, IN 
Mon.· Thurs.: 9am · 7pm 
Friday: 9am · Bpm 
Saturday: 9am · 6pm 
Closed Sunday 
Whole Fryers Everyday 
Try our other Tyson Chicken Products 
Mixed Fryer Parts ..................49e lb. Wings ................ ~ ..................69f': lb. Drumsticks ..............................89f: lb. Thighs ..................................89f': lb. 
Split Breasts 
All Purpose Grind Coffee 
premium blend 
21b . 

I
ALDI 

S299
Low Price 

Juices and Dnnks 
100% Pure Orange Juice 99"" 
unsweelened,gradeAtaney.46oz. . ~ 100% Pure Grapefruit Julce,unsweetened. 
99e 
gredeAiancy.46oz.............. 
:,~!1 ~ ~~!~.e64 oz ..........99e :~~~e.~~~~~...................SJ99 
Tomato Juice ......••..59"'
grade Alaney, 46 oz ~ 
Condiments and Spreads 
;~J!~~ancy. 32 oz~ ....•.....69e 
Peanut Butter, creamy SJI9 or chunky. grade A laney, 18 oz. • , .. 
1

:~~~~~ .~~. ~.~. ~r.~~.~~.~~..79e 
Strawberry Preserves 

99"" 
grade A I ancy, 32 oz. .. ... .. .. .. ~ 
Prepared Foods 
~h~!~ ~~~~.~~.~~.~ ...........59e 
1

~2~co~r~~. • ~••~~~~.~~••••••••2se 
~2u~c~~.~~..~~~~ ............99e Elbow Macaroni or Long 69e 
Spaghetti, 2/b. . .......... . Rice & Vermicelli Mix 
..19e 
beet or chocken flavor, 8 oz. . ....... 
Brach's Chocolate Covered Peanuts, Peanut Clusters, or Raisins, 14.5 oz SJ69 
ALDI Low Proce ............... .. 
.............................. SJ59 lb. 
Jennie-0 Whole Turkeys 
10-12 lbs. 
~!-p~6~~. 
Household Items 
~~c~,al ~~~~~ ...............49e 
~~e:~oJ~~~~~...............39e 
:~~~~~~4":cJ!!s~.~ ..........5 9e Laundry Detergent S299 no phosphate. 171 oz. ........... 
Premium White Bread 
big 20 oz. loaf 

Bread & Pastry 
New! Christollen with Perslpan, imporled from Germany, 35.2 oz. ............... 
SJ99 
,.. 
Flour ~ 


51b.bag~~~ 
tao ~w'P2! 49e~ 
Dairy and Lunch Meat 
Produce ~~d~~:~J~~ lbs. . ........99e ~~~~~~rade. 3tbs ..........59e ~~rr~t:rade. 2tbs ......•..•.49e 
Red Delicious Apples 
69"" 

US laney grade, 3 lbs .. .. .. .. ~ 
Frozen Foods 
page 12 The Observer 
Sophomore is versatile 


Markovitz off to hot start 
By SEAN S. HICKEY Sports Writer 
"I'll help out wherever the team needs me... that's all I care about," said sophomore hockey player Kevin Markovitz. Markovitz dis­played his versatility against Windsor in the season-opening series last weekend. 
Against Windsor, a Canadian team, Markovitz contributed on both sides of the red line, tallying both nights as Notre Dame split the series. Markovitz finished the series with one goal and two assists. 
"Last year I played defense," said Markovitz, "and the coach started me at center last Friday night but switched me back to defense Saturday night." 
Markovitz is from St. Louis, Mo., where he played four years of varsity hockey in high school. He attended an All-Star national hockey tournament in his senior year where he con­sulted with Notre Dame coaches. 

"Basically I chose to attend Notre Dame with the idea of finding the best academic school with a good hockey pro­gram," said Markovitz. 
As a freshman, Markovitz had 22 points--18 of those com­ing on assists and four on goals. 
"One of the most thrilling moments for me was my first collegiate goal against West Point," said Markovitz. 
"Kevin is a clever stick hand­ler," says Head Coach Ric Schafer, "and a good skater. His stick handling skills will help us, especially on defense, to get out of the defensive zone more quickly." 
The next opponent for Notre Dame is Kent State at Kent, Ohio, a fellow American Col­legiate Hockey Association member. The Golden Flashes have gotten off to a shaky start thus far this season and sport a 3-7 record heading into this weekend's contests with Notre Dame. Kent State also has a new coach, Tom Viggiano, who, like Schafer, is returning to his alma mater to coach. 

Despite the competitiveness in the ACHA and the calibre of teams Notre Dame will play, Schafer is optimistic about the season. 
"I want to win the remaining 29 games and win the ACHA conference," added Schafer. "The team is hardworking, but we just need to eliminate a few mental lapses. If we can cor­rect some of those mistakes, I think we can get Notre Dame hockey back on track." 
Switzer closes in on Soc,ner win mark 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer laughed at the audacity of the idea. 
"When you first started out," a questioner asked, "did you ever think about surpassing Bud Wilkinson's record?" 
Wilkinson is perhaps the school's most famous coach. And until this year, he had also been the winningest coach in Oklahoma football history. But now Switzer, in his 15th season, can pass Wilkinson if the top­ranked Sooners beat No. 12 Oklahoma State on Saturday. 


Seesaw 
continued from page 16 
straight points to take the match. The strong net play of Shea and senior Kathy Baker gave the Irish the momentum, while the hustle of White and Morin shut down any hopes for an Eastern Michigan com­eback. 
"Morin set a beautiful 
game," said Notre Dame head 
coach Art Lambert of the 
decisive fifth game. "The team 
was passing well and we played 
good defense in that game. 
Kathy Baker played well 
tonight and I thought Zanette 
Bennett had a good game." 
Notre Dame, 21-8, heads to 
Dayton tonight to face their 
North Star Conference rival. 
The Irish then return to the 
Joyce ACC Pit Saturday night 
at 7:30 to host Louisville. 

BEER Lite 24 cans &7.99 Busch 24 cans $5.99 Meister Brau 24 cans $4.99 Stroh's 30 pack $7.79 Old Milwaukee 24 cans $5.99 Budweiser 24 cans $8.57 Bud Light 24 cans $8.57 Miller Draft 24 cans $7.99 Blatz 24 cans $5.99 Michelob 24 bottles $9.99 Michelob light 24 bottles $9.99 Miller 24 cans $7.89 Hammes 24 cans $5.99 QUARTS Budweiser $10.99 Bud Lite $10.99 Busch $9.99 RETURNABLES Rhinelander 24 bottles $3.99 Budweiser 24 bottles $7.99 Bud Lite 24 bottles $7.99 KEGS Budweiser 15.6 gal $28.99 Busch 15.6 gal $26.69 
--Oid_M_ilw_a_ukee-15._6g-al-$2-3.9-9_ 
Switzer enters the game with a 145-25-4 record. Wilkinson compiled a 145-29-4 mark in 17 seasons. Wilkinson won three national championships, and Switzer also has won three. 
''If I had said in my first year that I was going ·after Bud's record, you would have put me over·at Central State," Switzer said, referring to a Norman mental hospital. "You don't start out with those types of goals." 
Instead, he said, you start out by trying to establish yourself, to prove you are deserving of the position. Switzer wasted no time doing that. His first season, 1973, the Sooners went 10-0-1, with the only blemish a 7-7 tie to Southern Cal. 
The following year Okla­homa went undefeated and won the national title. In 1975, Swit­zer's third season as coach, Oklahoma went 11-1 and won another national title. 
In 1976, the Sooners stumbled just a bit, finishing 9-2-1. They came back strong the next four years, combining for a 42-6 record in those seasons and winning three Orange Bowl titles. 
ATTENTION: STUDENTS 
WITH PARKER & PARKER MEDICAL INSURANCE 
Your insurance J.D. cards have arrived. They may be picked up on the first floor of Health Services in the Insurance Office Monday through Friday 8:30am until 5:00pm. 
3825 N. Grape Rd. 
IMPORTS


.Mish, Ind. 
Red Stripe 6 pack(nr) $4.99 Hours: LaBatt's 6 pack(nr) $2.99 Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. Red Horse Malt 16 oz. bottle 59 cents 
Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 272-2274 

LIQUOR Glen Moore Vodka 1.75 liters $7.99 

Edlaon
Don Q Rum 1.75 liters $10.79 Burnett's Gin 1.75 liters $9.99 
efCiiYl
Canadian Mist 1.75 liters $10.99 
... 
~ 
Cotty's Sark 1.75 liters $17.99 Malibu Rum 750 ml $6.59 Arrow Flavored Schnapps 750 ml $5.99 Jack Daniels 750 ml $9.99 
_...._______________ 

Thursday, November 5, 1987 


The Observer I File Photo 

Defenseman Kevin Markovitz (6) had a goal and two assists over the weekend against Windsor. Sean Hickey features the sophomore at left. 
GROW WITH A 
FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your professiQn often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your potent}al, look into the many opportunities available in NAVY MEDICINE. 
• 
Medical Scholarships 

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Ntrrses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and sewardinglifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs respresentative will be 
on campus ~eni:Jer 12, St. Mary's career Fair 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or 
call ahead for information. 
1-800-221-5932 

NAVY¥-OFFICER. 
----·--. . . -. -----­
'f.!,'!!!'•~ ·: •:,_...... .,.., :;<> .... _ .......~·~....~I"'~-"'-~-7>?¥·~-~t'7··::·{.:::--;:.-__·-~..l• .!__.!.>.~:ll-v<-:_~~~~·~ ..L~:._._,: 
LEAD TilE ADVENTURE. 
WINES 

Bartles & James 4 pack $2.99 
Matilda Bay 4 pack $2.59




CITY-WIDE LIQUORS 

--~---------------------~---~------­
Thursday, November 5, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Bears resort to passing in come-from-behind contests 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. --The come-from-behind victories they have pulled off the last two weeks might show character, but they are not characteristic of the Chicago Bears. 
Some of the guys in the of­fensive line are showing con­cern, and the Bears' chances of leading the NFL in rushing a record fifth time are in jeopardy. 
"We don't want to keep going through that, but sometimes it happens," said Jimbo Covert, a two-time All-Pro tackle, of the come-from-behind vic­tories that have forced the team to abandon its running at­tack. 
"We have to run the ball to be effective but you can't run when you're behind," said Covert. "We're becoming like San Diego. We have a good quarterback and good receivers, but that's not our characteristic. 
"As long as we're winning, it's fine, but we can't keep doing that," said Covert. "It's about time we win a toss and drive downfield and score." 
Since the strike ended, the Bears, behind quarterback Jim McMahon, have had to resort to the passing game for vic­tories of 27-26 over Tampa Bay and 31-28 against Kansas City. They fell behind Tampa Bay 20­0 and behind Kansas City 14-0 and 28-14. 
Center Jay Hilgenberg, also a two-time All-Pro starter, doesn't think falling behind puts any more pressure on the offensive line. 
But Hilgenberg rather likes the Bears' new image in which 

the team .is averaging 1~6.6 · hit safely In 34 straight games this year, won the yards passmg to 121.3 rushmg. • 
th~~~;.~~e~~c~~!n~s;a~s~~~ G1ants upset with Candlestick 
team," said Hilgenberg. 
~--------------------------------. 

Flat 
continued from page 16 
just outside the penalty area. 
Then came the biggest 
scare with 7:20 left in the 
game when Cseri drilled a 
shot off the far left post. After 
that, the defense held tight to 
give Notre Dame its eighth­
straight victory at home. 
"These kids got that knack 
of keeping it close," said 
Grace of his players, who 
have also gone into overtime 
six times this season. 
The team did not emerge unscathed from the push-and­shove match. Forward Pat Murphy suffered a hamstring injury late in the second half. The extent of the injury is not known. 
Stopper Paul LaVigne was slowed by a bruised thigh, courtesy of Valparaiso's Laslo Balla. LaVigne and Balla were going at it all night long, and both received yel­low cards. 
IRISH ITEMS-The Irish have fallen to 20th in the latest Soc­cer America Top 20 poll. 
SARG 

Student Alumni Relations Group 
presents 
in the 

Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
NO undergrad & Law School Associate Judge, State of Illinois 
Thursday, Nov. 5, 4:00 pm Center for Continuing Education All Majors Welcome! 
* 
!* THE OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY
* presents
* 
* W H A T' S T H E F U T U R E
!
* 0 F T H I S R E 1 A T I 0 N S H I P?
*
* 
* 
* 
*
* An evening for couples in a serious relationship,
* 
* :  who  want  to  explore choices and  decisions  for  the  
* * ** **  Friday, November 20th 4-9pm  
* *  

AP Photo Benito Santiago tagging out Lance Johnson of National Laegue Rookie of the Year Award. Details the Cardinals earlier this season. Santiago, who on page 14. 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -The defeat of a plan to build a down­town stadium means that the San Francisco Giants will be looking for a new home, club owner Bob Lurie says. 
"The Giants will not be in San Francisco," Lurie told a news conference after Tuesday's election defeat of a proposition that would have replaced Candlestick Park with an $80 million ballpark. "There are lots of cities across the country that are dying for the Giants." 
Lurie, whose lease on Candlestick expires in 1994, said, "I will be talking to a lot of different communities, starting in 1988. I'll consider anyplace that wants us." 
Not everyone believes him. 
Ex-San  Francisco  Mayor  
George  Christopher  was  
skeptical.  "I  don't  think  it  

means anything ..." he said of the Proposition W loss. 
"We have seen Lurie change his mind before and I don't think anybody believes that he would turn down a downtown ballpark if a site like Third and Mission were made available ... " said Dan Woodhead, pres­ident of the Downtown Bal­lpark Boosters Club, adding that there is plenty of time for 

********************************************************************* 
: * 
********************************************************************!
* * * 
* 
!* * 
* 
* 
!
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
future. 
! 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 

* 
* 
TopiCS to be presented: ! -Stages of relationships * -Expectations for the future * -Maintaining long-distance relationships * 
-Juggling the personal and the professional ! -Steps in making healthy decisions * 
* 
The program will include presentations by * engaged and newly married couples. * * 
Pre-registration is required. * 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office:*
* 
Library Concourse or Badin Hall ! 
Applications are due by NOV. 16th * 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
! ~f~ **************************:*******************************~ 
! MINISTRY : 
~******************************************************************** 
more negotiations on a new stadium. 
It has long been Lurie's con­tention that the Giants, tradi­tionally one of the worst teams in the National League in terms of attendance, would do far bet­ter if they played in a stadium that was not as chilly, windswept and inaccessible at Candlestick. 
"A lot of improvements have been made, but you can't put earrings on a pig," said Giants catcher Bob Brenly. "It's al­ways going to be windy and it's always going to be cold." 
But fans did turn out this past season, breaking all past records as 1.9 million watched the Giants capture the NL west title. 
Should the contributions fail, they warned, the city's hotel tax funds would be tapped, however. 


Injuries 
continued from page 16 
game," Holtz said of Satur­day's Notre Dame-Boston Col­lege earlier in the week. "For the last year, it's all I've heard about any time I talk to some­one from that part of the country. It may not be for the national championship, but you'd never know that from the interest that's been shown." 
Whether or not the interest stems from the fact that anum­ber of Notre Dame students live in the Boston area, or the fact that the contest pits the two Division I Catholic football schools against one another, I'm sure the last meeting be­tween the schools has someth­ing to do with it. 
It was billed as the "Vatican Bowl." 
The 1983 Liberty Bowl was decided by the success and fail­ure of the placekickers after the six touchdowns scored. Boston College missed its first on an icy field, and then failed to convert on two-point at­
tempts  after  its  next  two  
scores.  
The Irish, meanwhile,  con­ 

nected on their first PAT and had the last two blocked. That one extra point and a 111-yard day by tailback Allen Pinkett were enough for a 19-18 victory over Doug Flutie and the Eagles. 
The only other time the two schools met, in 1975, Dan Devine rolled to a 17-3 victory over BC in his first game as head coach of the Irish. 

Thursday, November 5, 1987

page 14 The Observer 



Sports Briefs . 
Off-campus hockey is looking for players. Anyone interested should sign up at the NVA office or call Chris Brown at 272-8689. -The Observer 
Novice and varsity crew team members will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland. Please bring checkbooks for sweats. -The Observer 
The varsity women's crew team will have a meeting for all who have participated in the fall season tonight at 7:15p.m., also in room 127 Nieuwland. Please bring checkbooks for sweats. -The Observer 
~vater Polo team members must attend a mandatory meeting today at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's basement T.V. room. For further info, call Tom Cashman at 234-6727. -The Observer 
Rosters are due November 11 for the Miami Project, an open flag football tournament to bene­fit the Marc Buonaconti Fund. The round robin tournament will be held November 20-22. Rosters for both the men's and women's divisions should include a minimum of 10 players and a maximum of 18. More details on the tournament appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA Monday, November 9 at 6 p.m. at the NVA office in the JACC. Wear shorts and short sleeves. The testing is free of charge and on a first-come-first­serve basis. -The Observer 
The varsity men's crew team will practice tomorrow at 4:45p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 
p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Santiago wins National League Rookie of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -San Diego catcher Benito Santiago, who hit safely in 34 straight games to establish a first-season record, was a unanimous selec­tion as the Jackie Robinson Rookie of the Year in the Na­tional League, the Baseball 
Writers  Association  of  
America  announced  Wednes­ 
day.  


NVA clinic 
Special to The Observer 
Faculty-staff are invited to attend a noon-time clinic on weight training sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics. Topics for the Wednesday, Nov. 11, clinic include proper use of equipment, suggested training pro­grams and benefits of weight training. 
The clinic is offered in con­junction with the opening of the JACC weight room to general student and fac­ulty!Staff use during sched­uled hours. The session will begin at 12:10 p.m. at the JACC weight room. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. 

, 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Santiago, who batted .300, hit 18 home runs, drove in 79 runs and stole 21 bases, received 120 points, while runner-up Mike Dunne, a pitcher for the Pit­tsburgh Pirates, had 66 points­-drawing 22 second-place votes. 
Pitcher Joe Magrane of the St. Louis Cardinals finished third with 10 points. 
Two writers from each of the league's 12 cities participated in the voting, which was con­ducted at the end of the regular season. Points were awarded on a 5-3-1 basis. 
Santiago, a native of Puerto Rico, became the fifth NL rookie to be acclaimed unani­mously. The others were Frank Robinson, Cincinnati, 1956; Or­lando Cepeda, San Francisco, 1958; Willie McCovey, San Francisco, 1959; and Vince Coleman, St. Louis, 1985. 
Mark McGwire of the Oak-
SEX on CAMPUS: Aids and other sexually transmitted diseases 
Monday, November 9 
7:00 pm-film "Beyond Fear" 
8:00 pm-panel discussions and questions Location: Theodore's 
-

sponsored by University Health Services & SUB 
ir~onwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and iimported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 
land Athletics was named American League Rookie of the Year on Tuesday. He also was a unamimous selection. 
Santiago broke Jimmy WH­liams' all-time rookie record of hitting in 27 straight games for the 1899 Pittsburgh Pirates. The modern record had been Guy Curtright's 26 straight with the 1943 Chicago White Sox. 
Santiago's streak was 

stopped on the last Saturday of the season by Los Angeles 
Dodgers right-hander  Orel  
Hershiser.  
Santiago  is  only  the  fifth  

catcher--and the first in 15 years--to be selected the top rookie. The others were Johnny Bench and Earl Williams in the NL, and Thurman Munson and Carlton Fisk in the American League. 

THURSDAY 
JAMAICA NIGHT II 
AUTHENTIC RED STRIPE BEER $} MALIBU PINEAPPLES 75 CENTS 

FRIDAY LUNCH 
OPEN NOON TO 2 PM START THE WEEKEND OFF RIGHT 21 J.D. REQUIRED 
Mr. L's Liquors 
413 Hickory Road 
Across from Town and Country Shopping Center 5 minutes from NO Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 10am-11pm 
!!Iii = 
5iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJi 

P-----~------------­
------------------------~----------------·-----·----~----------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 5, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Cil.]3]J!TI[f~J'~Imf

SUB presents: 
~ AI<""""' .,
~ 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 



DUNDEE 
He's survived fhe most hosffle and primiffv~ 
lond known to man. Now all he's got to do 
TONIGHT is make it through 
7:00,9:15, 11:30 pm 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 pm
$2.00 

a week in New York. 
$2.00
Cushing Auditorium 
~ Engineering Auditorium 
DUNDEE 
There's a IHtle of him in all of us. 
'VGf SISSY SPACEK ••J SAM SHEPARD ... "J>o." 



Campus 
11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. Hospitality Lunches. Center for Social Concerns. $3.00. 
4:00p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture Series Theme: The Cost of Militarism. "Nuclear 'Normality'--False Assumptions and New Direc­tions," by Robert Jay Lifton, M.D., Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry and Psychology, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, City University of New York. Library Auditorium. Public invited. 
4:30 p.m. Department of Earth Sciences Lecture "Seismic Prediction of Porosity and Hydrocarbon Traps in Carbonate Rocks," by Dr. M. Ray Thomas­son, distinguished lecturer for the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and executive vice president, Pendleton Land and Exploration, Inc., Denver, Colo. Room 101, Department of Earth Sciences. 
7:30 p.m. SMC History Department Lecture "The Question of the Original Intent of the Constitution: 1787-1987," by Prof. Charles E. Rice, ND. Carroll Auditorium. 
8:00p.m. Ford Motor Company Presentation-Reception for all MBA students interested in career opportunities in Finance, Sales, and Marketing areas. Center 
for Continuing Education, Lower Level. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Law School Grill Beef Stir Fry w/ Veg Fried Chicken Vegetable Rice Casserole Saint Mary's Deep Dish Pan Pizza Pork Chops Cheesy Potato Deli Bar 


Comics 
Bloom County 
"ACT I, PI/Net.. I : 
81t..L. THe: CAT &IV€5 
STCV€ ll SIII£/?ISH 

COCONI/r OIL. MllSS/1&£." 
I 

Calvin and Hobbes 
Berke Breathed 
A MA5SII&t " IF I'M !IKe YOU L.YIN', {)1/I"Te I'M /?YIN~ 
S!/t?e r 
\ 
\ 

Bill Watterson 

I EAT 1\t·N CERt:Al nli\T ~£Sl-l'i TURN TI-lE. 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Radar Image 5 Does 
roadwork 10 Pointed tools 14 Modena moola 15 Disconcert 16 "-Price 
Glory?" 17 Actor Sharif 18 Rope 19 Inventor Elias 20 Flirt 22 Easily bent 24 Graf ­25 Asterisk 26 Profession 29 Dry-eyed 33 Excited 34 Limestone 35 Call material 36 Covers with 
turf 37 Marina snail 38 Genet or 
Stapleton 39 Harbor sight 40 Wedges 41 Money 42 Optional 44 Hlbernal 
season 45 Mist 46 Hogshead 47 "Georgia 
Peach" 50 Abrupt change 54 Emulate Elsa 55 Apportion 57 Expression of 
pain 58 La Douce 59 Loop 60 Premlnger 61 Skin 62 Champion of 
dance 63 Jimmy or James 
DOWN 1 Faction 2 Prexy's auto 3 Mosul's land 4 Scrutinizer& 5 Prevaricate 6 Diminish 
1--+-+--+-­
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
7 Urn 8 Double curve 9 Occupational 
conversation 10 Give It -(try) 11 Horse halter? 
~ 

12 Grass plot 13 Printer's term 21 Foil 23 Frolic 25 Closes 26 Social class 27 In a tangle 28 Areta 29 Essay 30 Perpendicular 31 Trap 32 Mora rational 34 Onion kin 37 Extremely 
clever 38 Teen's diet? 46 Shut 51 Stringed 40 Pierce 47 -the light Instrument 41 Speak fantastic 52 Eight: praf. 
Imperfectly 48 Knight time? 53 Measure of 43 Hymn tune 49 Arrived loudness 44 Garcon 50 Stream 56 Card game 
Far Side Gary Larson 

~-----~ 
~-------­



Sports 
Thursday, November 5, 1987
eeye 16 

Soccer flat in win: Morris gets record 
By PETE GEGEN his assist "slump." After a Sports Writer four-game dry spell, Morris as­sisted on both goals to set an 
It shouldn't have been so Irish record for most assists in close, but a flat Notre Dame a single season with 17. soccer team escaped with a 2-1 Morris worked a perfect victory over Valparaiso Wed­cross to forward Bruce nesday night at Krause "Tiger" McCourt for the filrst Stadium. goal at the 26: 11 mark. 
The Irish managed to win McCourt sent the pass into the their 15th game of the season, right-hand corner for his 12th
I 
only after holding off a goal of the season.
I 
Crusader rush in the final In the second half Morris 
minutes. dribbled across the midfieldI' "We just didn't play well," before leading midfielder I said Irish head coach Dennis Johnny Guignon with a pass on 
Grace. "Valparaiso wanted it. the left wing. Guignon hit a per­
I 
They looked like they were fect shot around the Valparaiso l going for the NCAA bid and not keeper just inside the right post Notre Dame." at the 64: 31 mark.
I 
This match did not help Notre Despite the score the Irish . Dame's chances of making the were not in control of the game. 
~ NCAA Tournament. The team In the second half Crusader will have to win its final two midfielder Zenon Horb hit two regular-season matches this rockets from outside 30 yards,
! 
weekend against Marquette the second one necessitating aI 
and Ohio State, and hope that diving save by Irish keeper misfortune strikes Akron and Dan Lyons. 
' 
Evansville, in order to get an But Lyons could not stop an invitation. arching shot by Valparaiso's However the win did break Mickey Cseri at the 77:47. The 
The Observer I Dan MacDonald

Notre Dame's three-game shot came from a direct kick 
Mldflelder Randy Morris (right) and the Notre season assist record In the process. Pete Gegen 
losing streak, and it also broke 

Dame soccer team eked out a 2-1 victory over has the story at left.
forward Randy Morris out of See FLAT, page 13 
Valparaiso last night, with Morris setting a single-
Volleyball team nips Eastern Michigan in five games 
By BRIAN O'GARA In the opening game, Eas­points en route to a 13-5 lead a shot in the arm and a 14-9 block tied the game at 12. The Assistant Sports Editor tern Michigan jumped out to a and eventual 15-7 win to knot lead. The visitors again held tie extended to 14 before the 5-2 lead before the Irish raHied the match at two. tough, forcing Notre Dame's Hurons put the game away, 16­At times, it appeared as if to take a 9-6 edge behind ser­Junior Zanette Bennett net players to hit long and close 14, and it was on to game five. nobody really wanted to win vice aces by senior Kathy opened the third game with two the gap at 14-13. Not to be The fifth game was all Notre this one. Until the fifth game. Baker and junior MauJreen quick kills, giving the Irish a denied, Bennett finished off the Dame. White began the rout With last night's match tied Shea. Eastern Michigan side-out and 1-0 lead. White game with one of her game­with an ace, followed by a ser­at two games each, the Notre battled back to knot the score doubled that lead with one of leading 25 kills. Irish--two vice error. The Irish not only Dame volleyball team pounced at 12 and 13, but Notre Dame her three service aces on the games to one. out-scored Eastern Michigan on the visiting Hurons of Eas­pulled out the win with an ace evening, and Notre Dame con­Game four began with the last night, but out-errored them tern Michigan in the fifth and by senior setter Kathleen tinued to hold off the feisty same preliminaries, a brief as well. Notre Dame commit­final game, clinching the Morin and freshman Amy Hurons while taking a 6-3 lead. Notre Dame lead that dwindled ted 19 service errors to the match with a convincing 15-4 White's solo block of a Huron The Irish began to have trouble into a 6-6 tie. Junior Mary Kay Hurons' nine, 41 hitting errors win. kill. with Eastern Michigan's con­Waller kept the Irish hopes to their 15. But the most impor­In game two, Eastern Mic­sistent blocking game, and saw alive with three kills for Notre tant edge was the final score 
That fifth game win was one higan's blockers seemed to be too many blocked volleyballs Dame side-outs, but the Irish as the crowd filtered out of the of the only convincing aspects everywhere, or at least fall on their own side of the net could not garner any points gym. of the evening. Both teams everywhere Irish hitters were as the Hurons tied the game at when serving and the Hurons The Irish jumped ahead 3-0, traded side-outs several times, aiming the ball. Notre Dame nine. jumped ahead, 12-9. Two kills fell behind 4-3, then tallied 12 having trouble putting the op­jumped ahead 5-4 but the Two kills and a solo block by by Bennett surrounded a long position away. Hurons reeled off nine straight a spirited Shea gave the Irish string of side-outs and a Waller See SEESAW, page 12 

-

Rice, Brown,. others OK for Boston College 
This is getting to be a habit. And one Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz wants to break. 
No injuries as serious as the broken collarbone suffered by senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak four weeks ago against Pittsburgh have plagued the Irish lately. But nagging injuries to key players have made life difficult for Holtz in practice, al­though the results haven't shown come game days. And this week, nagging injuries have resulted in another decision for Holtz as to a starting quarter­back for Saturday. 
All-America flanker Tim Brown and starting quarterback Tony Rice were among a large group of players who missed practice Monday and Tues­day, only to return Wednesday. The pattern is get­ting ridiculous, and is making Holtz' weekly press conference every Tuesday sound like a broken record. 
"(The injury situation) is reaching a point where it's going to hurt us," Holtz said Tuesday afternoon, expressing concern about the number of players who missed practice Monday and Tuesday. Rice missed practice early last week as well, after suf­fering a mild concussion against USC. 
The list was a larger one this time, including Brown (broken left ring finger), Rice (ankle), split end Pat Terrell (ankle), defensive linemen Mike Griffin (back and ankle), Tom Gorman (illness) and Ted FitzGerald (ankle), and offensive linemen Tom Rehder (ankle) and Jeff Pearson (back). 
All but Pearson were back in action Wednesday, and the sophomore is expected to be ready for Sat­urday's game against Boston College. 
The players always seem to be ready by Saturday afternoon. And it's tough to second guess a 6-1 record against perhaps the toughest schedule in the nation. 

Marty Strasen 

A.sslstant Sports Editor 
But you've got to wonder how much the team's timing and chemistry (there's that word again) are improving when all those players are missing half a week of practice time. 
"It's hard to retain any kind of consistency when you don't have the right guys in there," Holtz said Tuesday. 
The Irish haven't started the same defensive line since the third week of the season against Purdue. Griffin, Jeff Kunz and Bryan Flannery had on the first-team gold uniforms in practice Wednesday. 
As for the quarterback situation, Holtz announced after Notre Dame's 56-13 thrashing of Navy that Rice was the starter and freshman Kent Graham the backup. But Graham filled in well Monday and Tuesday, and Holtz announced earlier in the week that the freshman might open up against the Eagles. 
"It's too early to say," Holtz said after Wednes­day's practice. The last practice before Saturday's contest is today, as the team watches game films on Friday. 
"Tony Rice was No. 1 coming out of last week," Holtz continued, "but he missed an awful lot of work. I think both will play, but I don't know who'll start." 
The quarterbacks split time with the first team Wednesday. 
A good week of practice usually means a solid performance on game day, Holtz said after his squad disposed of the Midshipmen this past Satur­day. 
Evaluation has been difficult this week. That's just another problem caused by the injuries. 
"You can't judge that just quite yet," Holtz ex­plained Wednesday. "It's hard to judge exactly what kind of week of preparation we're having. I think we'll play well, though. At least I hope we'll play well." 
"I can't believe the interest in this football 
See INJURIES, page 13 






