A 60 percent chance of rain Wednesday with highs near 70 and lows from 60 to 65. A 40 percent chance of thunder­showers Thursday with highs 
IACCENT: A visit to the Radiation Lab 
IVIEWPOINT: Inappropriate humor 
in the mid 70s. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 17 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1987 

1ne UD88rvevJen uu 
Construction continues at a rapid pace on the North Dining Hall and the Knott and Siegfried dorms. 

Construction 'right on schedule' 
By KRISTIN SWENER­TON News Staff 
Construction on the North Dining Hall and two new wo­men's dorms are "right on schedule" according to Don Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant. 
Dedrick estimated the construction on the dining hall will be completed be­tween October 1988 and Au­gust 1989. 
The underground utilities have been installed for the dining hall and masonry work should begin in three weeks. 
Space will be increased by 500 seats, and there will be new dining areas at the north and south ends of the building. These areas can be used for private parties or other events. 
Dedrick stated, "The building is thirty years old, and we felt it was time to redo the serving areas and increase space." 
The serving lines will be remodeled to resemble those at the South Dining Hall. 
Knott and Siegfried, the new women's dorms, should be finished by June of 1988. The roofs and exterior brick­work are almost done and windows are to be installed next month. 
The approaching cold weather will not affect con­struction at all, Dedrick said. The buildings will be closed in by then, so work such as hanging doors and putting in ceilings ean be easily completed. 
The dorms are similar in design to the Pasquerillas, and will likewise hold about 250 students each. 
These two projects have been contracted to Casteel Construction, the company that built the Snite Museum and rebuilt St. Edward's Hall after after it was damaged by fire. 


Bork: My judging is non-ideological 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork, denying that his judicial philos­ophy is either liberal or conser­vative, said Tuesday that judges must be dedicated to restraint and respect for dem­ocratic processes. 
The federal appeals court judge, in an opening statement to the Senate Judiciary Com­mittee considering his nomina­tion, said: 
"My philosophy of judging is neither liberal nor conserva­tive. It is simply a philosophy of judging which gives the Con­stitution a full and fair inter­pretation, but where the Con­stitution is silent leaves the policy stru~gles to Congress, tne president, legislatures and executives of the 50 states and to the American people." 
Meeting head-on some of the attacks of liberal critics, Bork said he values judicial prece­dent and singled out for special praise the 1954 Supreme Court ruling, Brown vs. Board of Education, that outlawed school segregation. 
He also said that as a Su­preme Court justice he would look differently upon past court rulings than he has done as a scholar earlier in his career. 
"It is one thing as a legal theorist to criticize the reason­ing of a prior decision, even to criticize it severely, as I have done," he said. "It is another 
see BORK, page 3 


HPC: Buzz Bus back, wear gold to game 
By TERRI DEMPSEY News Staff 
The return of the Buzz Bus was announced Tuesday night at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
The bus will run every Friday and Saturday night beginning this Friday, Sept. 18, from midnight to 3 a.m. 
The HPC said students can board the bus at the bars but cannot be dropped there. 
Buzz Bus cards will be for sale, and there will be coupons and ads for the cards in The Observer. 
In other Senate business, im­provements for D2 parking lot were discussed, including addi­tionallighting. 
Joe Cassidy, director of Stu­dent Activities, came to speak about the policies concerning the merchandising of dorm sportswear and the reserving of quads, Green and White fields, and rooms in LaFortune for dorm functions. 
Pat Cooke, student body president, spoke of his plans to visit each dorm's Hall Council meeting at least once each se­mester to give and receive in­put about student life. 
He also spoke of the distribu­tion of blue and gold ND placards for each student to place in his or her window. They will be passed out on Thursday, and students are urged to show their spirit by displaying the cards. · 
The Friday night pep rally will be held in Stepan, and Ipso Facto will present a concert on the courts immediately follow­ing. 
Students are urged to wear gold to the game, as green is Michigan State's color. 
The HPC also discussed the problem that occurred with the SUB's ticket distribution policy. 
see HPC, page 4 


ND called to divest; Board of Trustees to review policy 
By KENDRA MORRILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame will have to un­dertake a "serious review of the University's divestment policy" at the Board of Trus­tees meeting in November, ac­cording to Father Oliver Wil­liams, associate provost and member of the University's ad­hoc committee on South African investment. 
The Sullivan Principles, a set of fair-employment principles calling for total divestment if apartheid is not dismantled, have been widely followed by 
U.S. businesses and univer­sities and have guided Notre Dame's policy towards invest­ment in South Mrica. 
The principles, authored more than 10 years ago by so­cial activist Leon Sullivan, es­tablished a deadline two years ago for dismantling apartheid. 
The deadline is now past. 
In a statement on June 3, 1987, Sullivan called for all Ameri­can businesses to withdraw from South Mrica by March 

1988. 
In his statement, Sullivan said, "As of May, 1985, I stated if in 24 months statutory apar­theid was not ended ... I would call on the companies to leave South Mrica, and call for an American embargo. The condi­tions have not been remotely met." 
The University Board of Trustees has been "following (Sullivan's decision) closely, since the University's policies are tied to the Sullivan Prin­ciples," said Richard Conklin, director of public relations and information. 
The Board of Trustees will meet Nov. 13 and 14, Conklin said, and will discuss divest­ment. 
He said he would not spec­ulate on whether Sullivan's statement will influence the Board's decision. 
"There's nothing anyone can say (about whether the Board will decide to divest this time) until the November meeting," said Conklin. "Then the Board will take a look at Sullivan's policies and make a decision." 
Conklin stressed that the issue is not divestment versus non-divestment. 
"It is between our policy of selective divestment versus those who want complete and immediate divestment," Con­klin said. 
According to Peter Walshe, Notre Dame's director of Mrican Studies, in May of 1986 Notre Dame's official policy stated that it would divest if the 
see SULLIVAN, page 4 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1987 

In Brief 
Europe's Ariane rocket blasted off from French Guiana Tuesday night and lifted two satellites into orbit, the rocket's first payload since it was grounded 16 months ago. A malfunction of the ignition system forced ground technicians to destroy the last Ariane rocket shortly after liftoff May 31, 1986. 
-Associated Press 
Howard H. Baker Jr., White House chief of staff, was hospitalized Tuesday for tests and treatment of an intestinal problem, a White House spokesman said. The spokesman, who asked not to be identified by name, said Baker was suffering from "diverticulitis," which is defined as an inflammation of an organ or body cavity. "He was in some pain, but the prognosis is that he will be out of the hospital by tomorrow," the spokesman said. The spokesman said he did not know which hospital Baker was in. 
-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Interview Training Workshop given by Ms. Susan Jensen, College Relations Officer from the Travelers In­surance Company, will be held in the Career and Place­ment Services office from 4-5 p.m. The meeting is open to seniors of all majors. -The Observer Juniors interested in summer jobs or internships may come to the Career and Placement Services office in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library for information. -The Observer The Pre-Professional Society will hold its first meeting in 127 Nieuwland at 7 p.m. to discuss this semes­ter's activities and to collect membership dues. -The Ob­server Theology majors, minors, and interested students are invited to an informal discussion led by Fr. Dunne at 8 p.m. in 341 O'Shaughnessy. This is the first of the under­graduate events this year. -The Observer AFROTCremembers POW-MIA Awareness Week by showing two POW-MIA recognition films at the Center for Social Concerns tonight. "Operation Homecoming -Tenth Anniversary" will be shown at 7 p.m., and ''POW: Americans in Enemy Hands" will follow at approximately 7:30 p.m. The films are sponsored by the AFROTC Arnold Air Society. -The Observer Annihilate Michigan State. Wake up the echoes and decorate Notre Dame's buildings. Hang banners with pro-Irish or beat MSU slogans for the home football opener this Saturday. Judging of banners will include all those hung by Thursday morning, and the best banner will likely be featured in an Observer photo. Brought to you by the Emerald Society. -The Observer Law school-bound seniors should attend the first of a two part seminar geared to helping you write a better personal statement, at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The seminar is sponsored by the NMMC Pre-law Society. The Observer  
We want to know! Ifyou see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ......... Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Layout ............ Laura Manzi Design Assistant . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Accent Copy Editor ........... Lisa Young Layout Staff.................. Cathy Keenan Accent Layout .............. Rachel O'Hara .......................................... Jodi Ziegler Sports Wednesday Design Joe Zadrozny Typesetters ............ Becky Gunderman Typists .......................... Cathy Haynes ..................................... Chris Reardon .................................... Jennifer Conlon News Editor .......... Ann Marie Durning ND Day Editor ................ Katie Gugle Copy Editor ................... Matt Crowley SMC Day Editor ........ Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor ........ Theresa Kelly Photographer .......................... Jeff utz Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Julie Collinge Tile ot.ner (USPS '99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile ObMner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CollCie. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writing Tile Otllerrer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46,6. Tile ot.ner is a member of Tile "-«~dated Pnu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


Flirting: silly and fun but can be disappointing 
I hated him at first. 
At least that's what I told myself. 
Then the 'E-word' ... Emotions took over. 
We traded gum, shy looks and friendly jabs. 

Not an unfamiliar situation, flirting is a col­legiate occupation. . If only he knew ... and he still doesn't. 
You know the feeling: missing your chem lab because you must run into your crush --acci­dentally, of course. And God forbid if you really do. Inevitably, you'll be returning to your room, incognito, because you forgot to brush your teeth that day. 
The things we do for love: like attending two Palm Sunday masses because he wasn't at the first one, sending her flowers from 'You Know Who' (saying novenas that she will figure out who they are from because you were too chicken to sign your name), dutifully going to a Clint Eastwood triple-feature, writing his name in chalk all over campus to welcome him back, sitting up all night writing bad poetry you'll never send. Of course there are more obvious ploys, like planning a family, naming the children, drawing up blueprints and sending it via campus mail. 
But for the most part, no matter how obvious it may seem to you, it just doesn't sink in. Not even with a knowledge hammer. 
More often than not; however, it does sink in. These enlightened individuals are the best actors in the world. Innocence and cluelessness are admirable qualities, but not after you realize you've been toyed with for months of googly-eyed nothingness. 
Here comes the moment of truth ... The Con­solation Prize: "Gee, you've got a great per­sonality, terrific sense of humor and you're smart, too! BUT I'm not interested in this kind of relationship right now. It would ruin my chance to make it into the trombone section of the marching band. Maybe if I'd met you five years from now ... etc." 
Really, there was nothing to ruin. The whole thing was one-sided from the beginning, but the flirting continued because your "love olinders" tricked you into making a spectacle of yourself. 
It can get so bad that you are now avoiding the love muffin, and every song on the radio sends you into an emotional frenzy that makes Molly Dodd look like Shirley Temple. 
It stands to reason that subtlety may not be the best way to win the affections of your Adonis or Venus. Live life on the edge. Take the risk. Laugh in the face of rejection and disappoint-
Sandy 
Cerimele 
Saint Mary's Editor 

ment. If you get the schlick from somebody, call it the ever popular "learning experience." 
Rationalize. One of the greatest rewards of an education is an increased awareness of the human rationale. Use it wisely. 
"It never would have worked ANYWAY be­cause: our friendship is too strong, he's from Pittsburgh and I'm from Cleveland, I would never get any of my homework done, she doesn't understand football, he's a brain and pencil-neck geek OR I'm not chopped liver and he doesn't deserve my novenas, poetry and blueprints. 
Yea, yea. Blah, blah, blah ... 
I guess all is fair in love and games, but maybe we should be a little less clueless, and take the misery out of cupid's aim. 
Fall Fever is just as contagious as Spring Fever on college campuses. It may be a con­tinuous quest for meaningful affection. 
Paul Simon puts it quite clearly, "You don't feel you could love me but I feel you could." 
Thanks for the gum, the shy looks and the friendly jabs. I guess I didn't hate you at first. 
But I do now. 


You're Invited 

N;;_me A RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
...:_f£ncouncer 
DIRECTED BY 
I
the City of Los Angeles. 
WHEN: 
We are winning. 
AMER~
l

CONTACT:
<WCANCER 
f.SOCIE1Y~ 

SIGN UP DEADLINE:
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

COST: 

STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
October 9-11, 1987 November 20-22, 1987 January 22-24, 1988 March 25-27, 1988 
Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 
September 25 th 
$15.00 
1~1
!.:!. IIIII 
OlfUOf (Nv'J'USMNSTRY 
Wednesday, September 16, 1987 The Observer 


Burrell talks on faithful victim 
By CELESTE FREIND News Staff 
In the first of the series of lectures entitled "Women of Faith," Father David Burrell spoke Tuesday on the diary of a Jewish holocaust victim, Etty Hillesum. 
Burrell described Etty Hil­lesum 's struggle to find meaning in her faithless and promiscuous life. He said her struggle eventually led to her transformation into a coura­geous woman with faith in God. 
Examining her book, titled "An Interrupted Life," Burrell spoke of the diary as "a pow­erful look at the transformation of a soul ... so compelling be­cause it is manifestly a work of God in a person." 
He said that Hillesum demonstrates to her readers that "the relative purpose of suffering is that we begin to un­derstand our ability to accept it." 
Burrell ended his lecture to the auidence of approximately 50 people with an open question and answer session. 

This lecture was the first in a series sponsored by the Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality. 
This series, which is open to the public, will reflect on wo­men of courage, insight, and conviction. 
The next lecture will take place Tuesday, Sept. 22 at 12: 15 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's College. 
The topic of next week's lecture will be Dorothy Day. 
Alcohol related deaths down 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The num­ber of alcohol-related traffic fatalities in Indiana during the first six months of 1987 dropped 31 percent from the same per­iod a year earlier, according to figures released Tuesday by the Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving. 
last seven years, the period for which the task force keeps sta­tistics. 
The task force also said that alcohol-related injuries in traf­fic accidents declined 4 per­cent, dropping from 3,712 in the first half of 1986 to 3,561 the first six months this year. 
Marion County Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith, the task force chairman, said he could not explain the declines in both alcohol-related deaths and in­juries. 

Both the Indiana State Police and State Excise Police an­nounced plans earlier this year to step up enforcement efforts to keep drunken drivers off the road. 
However, those efforts were focused on the summer months, for which complete statistics are not available. 
page 3 

Board is sponsoring annual Fall Fest 
September 27, to Monday, September 28. 
Teams may be co-ed, and will compete for prizes, said Hashagen. 
In other business, the newly chosen Judicial Board has decided to produce a booklet which will inform students of their rights on campus, as well as in situa­tions such as off-campus party raids, and charges of drinking underage, said Hashagen. 
Also covered were plans to hold a Dorm Photo Night, using photographer Niel King of Kingshots, and the Alumnae Tailgater, which will be held this Saturday, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Haggar Terrace. 
Food and drink will be pro­vided by the alumnae asso­ciation. 
The Board had originally planned to discuss campus safety with Director of Se­curity Richard Chlebek; however, he was unable to attend. 



Bork 
continued from page 1 
and more serious thing altoget­her for a judge to ignore or overturn a prior decision. That requires much careful thought." 
Bork said judges who impose their own values rather than in­terpret the Constitution deprive the American people of liberty. 
In response to questions from Judiciary Committee Chair­man Joseph Biden Jr., Bork defended statements he has made criticizing an important Supreme Court ruling in 1965 that struck down a Connecticut 

law  barring  the  use  of  con­ 
traceptives even  by  married  
couples.  

Bork said he disagreed with the court's reasoning in that case creating a "free-floating right of privacy" and w~s not defending a state's right to ban contraceptives. 
Earlier Tuesday, Bork was extolled by former President Ford and others as brilliant and compassionate but was denounced by opponents as biased and close-minded as the Judiciary Committee began hearings on his nomination to the Supreme Court. 
Questions about Bork's qualifications were raised by three uncommitted members of the committee, which ap­pears to be about evenly divided on whether or not to recommend confirmation. 
However, Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd repeated his intention to have the full Senate vote on the nomination. 
"I can assure that the nomination won't be killed by the Judiciary Committee, no matter how many senators vote against the nomination," he said. 
Some 350 sign-carrying, anti­Bork demonstrators rallied in a park across the street from the Senate office building where the hearings were being held. 
WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
EARLY AM OR EVEN/NOS 

By CHRISTINE M. McCANN News Staff 
At Tuesday night's Saint 
Mary's Board of Gover­. nance meeting the date for the annual Saint Mary's Fall Fest was announced as Wed­
nesday, Sept. 30. 
The fest will include a 
movie, comedian show, 
caricature artist and a per­
formance by Irish musician 
John Kennedy for a one dol­
lar admission fee, said Has­
hagen. 

She added that the event 
will be held in the Haggar 
Student Center from 8-11 : 30 
p.m. 

Hashagen also said the 
Saint Mary's Bookstore will 
hold a "Midnight Madness 
Sale" that same evening at 
10:30 p.m. 

The Programming Board also announced a campus­wide Scavenger Hunt, headed by Julie Waggoner, will be held from Sunday, 



TERRIFIC VALUE 

Join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice Not valid with any other promotion. 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1987 
Security Beat 
10 p.m. -A South Bend resident
Monday, September 14 

reported that vandalism was being
5:01 p.m. -A resident of Carroll 
done to her car. The incident took
Hall reported the theft of his bike
9:15a.m.-An off-eampus student place during the wrestling event at
from the bicycle rack. His bike is worth $150.
reported that her purse was stolen the ACC. It is estimated that $150 
from her car. The purse and its con­damage was done to the car. 
tents is valued at approximately $30. 

Tuesday, September 15 
11:15 a.m. -An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bike 5:50p.m. -A Stanford Hall resident 
2:20p.m.-$250 worth of car stereo
from the bicycle rack at Alumni. The reported the theft of $80 in cash from equipment was reported stolen from 
bicycle's value has not been deter­his unlocked room. There are no 
a Sorin Hall resident's car. The car
mined. suspects at this time. 
was parked in the D-1 student lot. 
Bargainers return to Ford table 
DEARBORN, Mich. -The "They're involved in inten­unlikely, but increased the United Auto Workers union and sive negotiations which will chances of a lengthy strike at 
Ford Motor Co. resumed bar­continue through the night,'' General Motors Corp., which gaining Tuesday over the cru­said Ford spokesman Tom will become the focus of the cial issue of protecting Foote. "We're not sure how union's attention once Ford's 
workers' jobs after the UAW long they will last. They have 104,000 UAW workers beginextended Ford's contract until a lot things to talk about. voting on a settlement. further notice. They're making progress, but It is the first time the union there is still a lot to be done. The extension, which UAW has agreed to extend talks past They're working very hard and President Owen Bieber an­
Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole, accompanied by her hus­
contract expiration with its very constructively." nounced less than an hour 
band Sen. Robert Dole, heads for the White House to resign her
main negotiating target. The union has demanded that before Ford's midnight Mon­
post. She Intends to devote her time to her husband's presidential 
U A W and Ford spokesmen Ford keep its UAW payroll at day contract expiration, indi­
campaign.
declined to reveal details of the current level regardless of cates the union will win much 

negotiations. recessions or production cuts. of its job security demand, said 
Ford, in turn, has demanded Ted Sullivan, analyst with looser plant work rules and job Wharton Econometrics in classifications, which it says Philadelphia.
HPC 
Help blow Alf's

would increase efficiency and "It gives the union a bargain­
continued from page 1 
improve production quality. ing chip" for its negotiations 
candle out.

The HPC noted that the SUB BoJh issues traditionally with GM because GM workers did try to reclaim the misap­
have been settled on a local will be very willing to strike in 
propriated tickets for level, not at the national bar­an attempt to win a contract 
call2103

redistribution. gaining table. giving them the same protec­The agenda for the Sept. 23 Industry analysts said the ex­tion as Ford workers, Sullivan 
inauguration ceremony for Fa-
tension made a strike at Ford said. ther Edward Malloy was also ;:;:======================;;
discussed. 
Happy 19th"

There will be an all-camt>US Mass at 10 a.m. at the Jt)yce 
Birthday Alf.

ND PREPROFESSIONAL
ACC, a convocation on the quads at 3 p.m. and a 5:30p.m. 

SOCIETY
student picnic with the new president and his officers. In other business, there will 
ITS 1ST MEETING
be a banner contest over the weekend with a monetary prize 


BEACON BOWL

awarded to the best banner hung outside a dorm window. 
Nieuwland Science 
BAR & RESTAURANT

It is sponsored by the Emerald Society. The Budget Committee 
WELCOME BACK

7:00pm
members were selected this week, and Susan Rock brought 

STUDENTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 16,
news from the newsly rel­
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after

ocated student radio station, 
WVFI. 
9:00pm & All day Saturday
Next week's meeting will be 

ROOM 127 
& Sunday.

held next Tuesday in Lewis at 
6:30p.m. 
NDST. MARY'S STUDENT DISCOUNT RATES
This semesters activities will be discussed & $3.00 membership dues will be collected. 
4210 Lincolnway West




Sullivan 
254-4167 

continued from page 1 
situation in South Africa deteriorated. 
STRATFORD SHAKESPEARE 
Since then, Walshe said, the 


FESTIVAL
situation has deteriorated catastrophically, and Notre 
"A Weekend in Canada ... A Change of
Dame still has not divested. 
Scene"
In May of 1987, Notre Dame 

(October 9-11, 1987)
policy makers said they were delaying the decision to divest 
TRAVEL: Chartered buses leave Notre Dame Campus at 7:00a.m., October 9 and return
until Sullivan had spoken, said 
THIS WEEK'S BARGAINS:

at 6:00p.m. on October II.
Walshe. Then, when Sullivan did speak and decided on total 
THE PLAYS: CABARET & w p.m~ Oct. 9
divestment, Notre Dame still 
OTHELLO 2:00p.m. Oct. 10 
did not divest. 
MUCH ADO 8:00p.m. Oct. 10 

MADRAS 75 CENTS

ABOUT NOTHING.
"With Father Malloy as pres­

ident, perhaps it's time to 
ACCOMMODATIONS: Bed and Breakfast
reconsider what Notre Dame 

DOMESTIC DRAFT

(Accommodations= two evening> and two breakfasts>
has been doing and divest, and live up to past commitments," 
PARTIES AND MEETINGS WITH ACTORS
said Walshe. 

75 CENTS

FOLLOWING ALL PERFORMANCES!!!
Notre Dame currently has in­
~ 

vestments in 35 U.S. companies with employees in South 

~~'\>b TENNESSEE TEA 

COST: $150: Includes Round Trip Transportation,
Africa, totalling $41.5 million, 
l!:xcellent Tickets To All ;:>,.rformances, Bed and 
or roughly 10 percent of its en­
Breakfast, Private Backstage Tours of the 
~ 75 CENTS

Festival Theatre! klin. He said in the last year three 
dowment, according to Con­

~ DOMESTIC DRAFT 

PAYMENT IN FULL REQUIRED TO GUARANTEE YOUR
companies have been divested 
RESER\'ATION 
as being inconsistent with the 
SIGN-liP IN ROOM 338'356 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALl 

75 CENTS

trustees' policy guidelines on 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
South Africa, which have been 
239-5398 OR CONTACT PROFESSOR RATHBURN AT 239-5069. 
SORRY ... 

based on the Sullivan Prin­
tFIRST COME li'IRST SERVE;) I 
NO FRIDAY LUNCH THIS WEEK

ciples. ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii£1 



Wednesday, September 16, 1987 The Observer page 5 




Pope arrives in L.A., urges moral _life 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Pope John 
Paul II opened his visit Tues­
day to the world's entertain­
ment capital with an exhorta­
tion to cling to ''a responsible 
moral life" even if it means 
"being out of step with 
majority opinion." 
The notorious Los Angeles freeway traffic flowed un­usually well as a crowd esti­mated by police at 300,000 turned out to see the pope along a seven-mile motorcade that took him through Hispanic, Ja­panese, Chinese and Korean areas. 
Speaking to 6,000 young people at Universal Studios Amphitheatre, an address linked by satellite to youth gatherings in St. Louis, Denver and Portland, Ore., the pope linked suicide with spiritual emptiness. 
"Why does it sometimes hap­pen that a seemingly healthy person, successful in the eyes of the world, takes an overdose of sleeping pills and commits suicide?" the pope asked. "Why, on the other hand, do we see a seriously disabled person filled with great zest for life? 
"The one has lost all hope," he said. "In the other, hope is alive and overflowing." 
•
•
•
•• roR? 
•
• JU)ff\IOtRA 
{'ii)I)D ~ormitory Refrigerators 
$35.00 per school year 
•
• 
Call Burns Rent-all Inc. 
.332 W. Mishawaka Ave. hrs 7-5 p.m. phone: 259-28.33 
========:i pope may have developed a 
Students: JOIN OUR CREW! A JOB THAT PAYS IN MANY WAYS. 
Why not work a few hours a week at your nearby Rax Restaurant! 
WE OFFER: 
• 
Flexible Scheduling 

• 
Paid Training 

• 
50% Meal Discount 


• 
10% Off-duty Meal Discount For Yourself & Family 

• 
Furnished Uniforms 


• 
Pleasant, Upbeat Work Environment 


If this sounds like a good way to earn a few extra dollars, by working a few hours a week then stop by your local Rax Restaurant between 2:00 and 5:00, p.m. 
Located at: 52770 US 33 North 536 W. McKinley (Mishawaka) 
Equal Opportunity Employer MF..ti 
The pope's motorcade ended with a prayer service at St. Vibiana's Cathedral, where the pope sounded a familiar theme -the difficulty and importance of applying morality to speech and deed in secular America, a country that has enjoyed con­stitutional guarantees of freedom for 200 years. 
The invited guests were rep­resentatives from each of Los Angeles' 284 parishes and 27 missions. 
The unwelcome guests were vagrants who normally take their meals at a mission next door to the cathedral but were moved elsewhere for the dura­tion of the papal visit. Church officials said the Secret Service and police insisted on the ac­tions for the pope's security on grounds that a terrorist might hide among the homeless. 
Two stadium Masses -at thE Coliseum and Dodger Stadium -were the big public events. 
There are 2.6 million Cat­holies in Los Angeles -5 percent of the nation's Catholics, and more than the combined Cath­olic populations of all the dioceses John Paul II has visited thus far -in Miami, Co­lumbia, S.C., New Orleans, San Antonio, Texas, and Phoenix, Ariz. 

-The OblllllveoAP PhoiD Pope John Paul II confe,. the sacrament of an­of Arizona at Tempe. nolntlng of the sick during mass at the University 


Pope is upbeat on U.S. trip 
Associated Press 
So far Pope John Paul II is 
accentuating the positive on his 
American tour, mostly com­
plimenting the U.S. church's 
vitality and achievements 
rather than condemning its dis­
sent and divisions. 
But a harder line has been urged on the pope by some con­servative groups, and church scholars said Tuesday the pope may be holding his fire until later in his 10-day visit, which ends Saturday. 
"If he had started stumping on dissent he'd lose much ofthe appeal that he has," said the Rev. Richard R. McCormick, a University of Notre Darr.e theo­logian. 
McCormick said that al­though the pope "certainly seems to be projecting a more positive approach, . . . we have to wait and see what he has to say, and whether the up­beat mood will persevere." 
Some theologians say the 

Albert Memorial is crumbling 
Associated Press The government is deciding 
among several solutions, none 
LONDON The Albert of which is cheap and at least Memorial, the huge and ornate one of which -outright removal monument to Queen Victoria's -would outrage many people. grief for her husband, is falling One key fact is that the apart. memorial is a tribute to Queen 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
In cooperation with the Country Bake Shop o:~Simply fill out the below order form South Bend, we'll deliver fresh baked goods & mall to: 
right to your door.  P.O. Sox 191  
Please make check pay1ble to N.D. Student C1k8 Service and be aura to Include the meanga you w1nt  N.D., ln. 46556 (don't use campus mall)  
on the Clke.  

Delivery Data.............................. Sen:e~:o::me 
.................................... 

Recipienfs Name & Address .••••u .....---o.,.
.............................-...•••u 
Cakes:sizes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.00 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 ~ white 
VII fruit $12.50 chocolabl(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-includes plabls Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
more appreciative view of the 
U.S. church, or may simply be showing a gentler side of his character. 
"Both sides of his personal­ity, the tough disciplinarian and a kindly father, are not contradictory," said James Hitchcock, a church historian at St. Louis University. "This time, he's being the kindly fa­ther." 
What's more, Hitchcock said, "effective dealing with dissenters would less likely be done in the public forum." 
There has been tension be­tween the Vatican and some American bishops, notably over the Holy See's investiga­tion of Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen and the appoint­ment of a bishop to share power with him. 
Another source of tension is a Vatican-ordered investiga­tion of religious orders. 
So far, however, the pope has been relentlessly upbeat, hailing the dedication of priests, making friends with Protestant and Eastern Or­thodox church heads, praising the involvement of blacks and Hispanics in the church. 
He has advocated strong families and marriages, decried the sufferings of the poor and blacks, praised the church's vast charitable and educational works, and stressed basic Christian values and dedication. 
He has taken up with mellow understanding touchy church questions, such as priestly celibacy and women's ordina­tion, on which most U.S. Cat­holics differ with the Vatican. 
George Morse of Silver Spring, Md., coordinator of Catholics Committed to Sup­port the Pope -a group which had urged the pope to speak out firmly against dissent conceded that the pontiff was "showing himself a more com­passionate and understanding shepherd." 
Elizabeth II's great-great­grandfather, the adored Prince Albert whose early death plunged Victoria into 40 years of mourning. 
The royal family is said to be taking a keen interest as the government decides whether to dismantle the memorial and send the components to museums; remove the dan­gerously unstable spire and do minimal repairs at a cost of about 4 million pounds ($6.6 million); cover it with a greenhouse-style structure to keep out damaging air pollu­tion, or go for a total restora­tion, with costs in the range of 7 million pounds ($11.5 mil­lion) . 
The 175-foot-tall shrine has a gabled canopy of white Italian marble and granite, inlaid with agate, onyx, jasper, carnelian and crystal and surrounded by large sculpture groups representing the continents and several noble endeavors. 
"Something is going to have to be done -pretty drastically,'' acknowledged David Prior, spokesman for the Department of Environment. 


~------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer 
The ObservettJeff Utz
A Staple Commodl•ty 
Things are busy In the Student Government office as workers hustle to get out Important packets. 

" I d t
Datlng games can ea 0 rape 
By KATIE MOORE News Staff 
Fifteen percent of college men will admit that they have raped a woman, according to Marianne Martinez, a Notre Dame graduate student in psy­chology. 
Martinez spoke Tuesday at Saint Mary's Walsh Parlor in the Haggar College Center as part of the five-part lecture se­ries "No means no." 
The series addresses differ­ent aspects of sexuality, includ­ing dating games. 
The lecture on "The Dating Game" featured two Notre Dame graduate students, Mar­tinez and Michael Jenkins, and a panel of seven Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
More than half of college wo­men have been a victim of sexual aggression andt>r vio­lence, Martinez said. 
One out of every three wo­men will be raped sometime in their lives. A rape occurs every two and a half minutes, she said. 
Three-fourths of rape vic­tims are between the ages of 15 and 21, according to Martinez. 
The average age is 18. 
The most common form of rape is date rape, said Mar­tinez. 
One of the reasons for these startling statistics is that the date rapists do not realize they are raping. 
Martinez said this occurs be­cause the rapist feels his ac­tions are justified. 
"We think of (rape) in the traditional sense," she said. "A girl is walking home, alone, at night, two in the morning. She walks by the bushes and some scruffy character pulls her into the bushes." 
Besides the logical precau­tion of not walking alone at night, another preventive mea­sure from rape is to stop "The Game" before it gets too out of hand. 
Jenkins, a Notre Dame psy­chology graduate student, stated, "If you're gonna wait 
SObering
Advice .·· ~ can~~e
.....

alife Ai, ' ...... 
·.4·· 

untilthegameiswellintoplay, His general conclusion was you run a lot bigger risks of that these needs are in contrast experiencing a rape," and the to society's common percep­male runs a lot bigger risk of tions of male and female roles. committing the act. The next lecture in the series 
In his lecture, Jenkins will be "Child Sexual Abuse" analyzed in detail people's psy-which will be held tomorrow at chological needs and how these 6:45 p.m. in the Stapleton 
needs tie in with dating. L_o:......u:_n~g_:e,~S_a_in_t:_M__:.:a....:ry:....'..:..s...:C..:.o....:ll.:..:eg::..e..:.._...f_or;;,om~at~io~n,:,;,._____________,;,m~e;;;,;d;::,;;i=.a·:.....------------. 
NowitSe-~ 



forrnder 

Sometimes it seems that seniors and grad students get a lot of special treatment. Like getting the American Express® Card pretty much hassle-free. Sure, they've proven themselves. But you have too, or you wouldn't be reading this today. So we're making some changes. Starting now, we're making it easier than ever for you to become a Cardmember through our Undergraduate Automatic Approval Offer. 
The requirements are as simple as they get: just be enrolled full time in a four-year college and have some form of income-be it from a job, a grant, or from your folks. You don't even need a credit history, but if you have one, it must be clean. 
How's that for hassle­free! Of course, once you have the American Express Card, it gets even better. You can use it to buy everything from sweats to ster­eos, everywhere from campus to Cam­eroon. And those are just the basics. As a Cardmember, you'll be entitled to a world of benefits you can rely on. 
So look into our new automatic approval offer. Call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. Or just pick up an application on campus and study it. You'll find you're bound to pass. 
Wednesday, September 16, 1987 

Reports say hackers got NASA secrets 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, West Ger­many -Teenage hackers broke into NASA's worldwide com­puter network throughout the summer and gathered secret data on space shuttle projects and rocket failures, West Ger­man media said Tuesday. 
News reports said young West Germans gained regular access to at least 20 computers of the U.S. space agency and had the ability to paralyze the entire network. 
The ARD television network said a flaw in the network's se­curity system allowed the hackers to enter the network 
from May to September. The NASA system connects more than 1,600 computersworldwide that share informa­tiononspaceresearch,nuclear physics and molecular biology, ARD said. The network includes U.S. atomic research facilities in Los Alamos, N.M. The Hamburg-based maga­zine Stern reported similar in­


aduates to 
"When I saw 'Welcome to the NASA headquarters ... instal­lation' on my screen, I was a little shocked, to say the least," the magazine quoted one youth as saying. 
The Hamburg-based "Chaos Computer Club" said in a state­ment to news media Tuesday that the youths turned to the club for help when they realized the enormity of their discovery. 
The statement said the hack­ers penetrated the network to show the "unbelievable weak­nesses" of the security system and had no interest in the se­cret data. 
The reports did not say how many hackers were involved or 
where they lived. In Washington, the National AeronauticsandSpaceAdmin­istration said it was preparing a statement. Stern said the hackers, a term used for amateurs who gain access to private com­puter systems, obtained NASA memos to employees on daily space shuttle program updates and on how to deal with the 

© 19K7 Amencan bpre!>~ Tra\el Hebllrd Sen'ICt'll Cumplll\. Inc 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, September 16, 1987 
page 7 

P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame loses loyalty of Guard 
Dear Editor: 
Tradition has always been an integral part of Notre Dame. In this, the tOOth anniversary of Notre Dame football, tradition plays an even greater role, especially to all involved in the special activities on game days. Recently, with the expulsion of the seven Irish Guard veterans, an important part of that tradition has been abandoned, snuffed out by University officials. 
The Irish Guard is not merely 10 guys who lead the band, marching in skirts. The Guard consists of individuals who are carefully selected not only for their marching ability but for their spirit ­their loyalty, support and "Darner­ness." In the Oct. 17-18, 1986 Irish Extra Weekend Edition, the article "The Irish Guard, Notre Dame's Colorful Football Tradition" states, "From the moment they don their finery, these men em­body the Notre Dame spirit, and their serious expression suggests the atti­tude with which they undertake their duties." 
For 10 special students, the Irish Guard was the focal point of all the pos­itive aspects of Notre Dame. They put all their efforts into marching for their school, teaching new members the traditions of the Guard and sharing the experience of Notre Dame both on the field and off. The comraderie they share through the Irish Guard binds them to each other in great friendships that will far outlast their four years at Notre Dame. These members of the Guard were on their way to becoming the fervent alumni of the future, attend­ing every football game clad in green leprechaun pants and bellowing the fight song. The Guard of past years traditionally return to support their successors in keeping the image and tradition of the Guard. By kicking out the continuing members, the Univer­sity has lost the allegiance of some of the most valuable Domers on campus. The University has crushed their school spirit by taking away their contribution to the Notre Dame tradition. 
The seven members of the Guard who have been dismissed have lost all respect for the University because they feel they have not been treated fairly. University officials were unjustified in punishing present Guardsmen for the actions of past years. This year, the seven received no warning before being permanently dismissed for actions they had not understood as offensive. Uni­versity policy and reaction seems to vary widely from group to group on campus. 
In snatching the Irish Guard from un­derneath its continuing members, the administration snatched all of these persons' joy and devotion for Notre Dame. The three newest members, not officially dismissed, also feel disillu-
Doonesbury 
sioned and hurt by the harsh treatment of their fellow Guardsmen which has destroyed the very character of the Guard. The one freshman rookie has received an immediate negative im­pression of this university and its policies. If it continues to treat its stu­dent body in such an inconsiderate, dic­tatorial manner, the University of Notre Dame may find much of the stu­dent/alumni loyalty and pride on which it commends itself has disintee:.r:a,terf. 
Patti Kase Mary Healy Walsh Hall 

Fans missing at team's return 
Dear Editor: 
The student enthusiasm over our win over number nine Michigan on their home field was fantastic on our campus, as well as in Ann Arbor. Cheers could be heard coming from the dorms and this victorious feeling was carried over to the dining hall where the students proceeded to sing and cheer. Unfortunately, this is where the student support ended. 
As is often the tradition, we waited at the main circle for the team buses to return in order to demonstrate our appreciation and support for the players who led us to victory. 'i'he buses rolled down Notre Dame Avenue to be greeted by six students clapping and cheering, embarassed that we were the only students on campus that showed up to welcome home the Fighting Irish. Granted, a large number of students were returning from Ann Arbor, but it's truly disappointing that there was not a larger turn-out for the team's return. The players appeared to be rather let down as well, as they looked out the windows for supporting fans, only to find the few. Notre Dame is well known for its incredible school spirit. Let's keep this tradition alive and well by demonstrating our support for the team bath on and off the field. 
Harry Pepper Steve Rosamila Diane Schaible 

Illegal parking causes havoc in D2 
Dear Editor: 
Do you own a "tank"? You know, those cars that were produced before gas prices first saw $1.00. We do, as well as others who park in D2, and it has gotten very tough to park here this year. 
For a student body that is supposed to have an excellent moral character, there really are some bad apples out there. We're talking about the six to 16 cars that are always illegally parked along the main circulation route of D2. Passing through the lot at least everyday, we have not seen one ticket grace anyone's window yet. Do these people have special priveleges? Of course there is plenty of space further back in the lot, but for these people the extra 200 feet is too far to walk; instead, drivers are forced to negotiate through a space not even wide enough for two Yugo's to pass by each other without collecting a few paint chips on their door handles. 
Wait! We've just come up with a great idea. We can have an An Tostal demolition derby with all the cars that have or have come close to hitting those over the yellow line. 
We would like to personally challenge our beloved security coordinator Rex Rakow to either paint the lines brighter and "bust" those willing to park past them or come out and say that we're free to park where we like. In that case, I'll park my '76 Impala right next to my roommates '72 Olds 98 in the lots entrance. 
To those who keep making D2 a haz­ard to cars like ours, please comply before some friends of ours, searching for their sharpest keys, become too angry after a night at Chi-Chi's. To Mr. Rakow, we would like to point out that the law is the law and if you can't solve the problem, we pray for you men (and women) in blue. 
John T. Kirk Patrick Grady Grace Hall 


Alcohol policy is a sound document 
Dear Editor: 
I have just finished reading the Ob­server's editorial which criticizes the University's new drunk driving policy. I have also read the policy. In my mind you have misrepresented the policy to your readers. 
The primary criticism of the policy is that "the solution" it proposes "will not correct the problem." What you fail to realize is that the committee does not pretend to be offering a solution. This policy, according to the commit­tee's report, is meant to guide 'the Uni­versity in matters concerning drunk driving. Other measures have been taken, along with this policy, to help lead Notre Dame toward a solution: Fr. Malloy has established a task force; the University has recently obtained $90,000 to be used in alcohol education; and Dean Hofman has conducted an im­pressive alcohol awareness program which was mandatory for all freshmen during orientation. The policy is a small part of a larger plan. 
Your specific attacks make me wonder if you really read all of the report and the policy. For instance, you claim that students caught "off campus" are unfairly punished twice-
Garry Trudeau 

once by local authorities and then again by the University. First, there is noth­ing quite unique about the sanctions for an off campus incident. The penalties are the same for students caught driving drunk on campus: arrest reports are filed both with the state and the Office of Residence Life. Second, the University is trying to say that they are concerned about the problem of drunk driving. For them to leave it up to the local police alone would be an irresponsible neglect of the problem. 
You also complain that the "recom­mended action is presented in a nega­tive way" and that "counseling be­comes a way to punish students." Counseling is always positive. People who drive drunk have a problem and counseling can only help. 
Finally, you criticize the committee for not doing things that it should not be expected to do. It is true that they could have made recommendations for a "Designated Driver" program, but students should assume such responsi­bilities on their own. The committee is not responsible, as you assume, for the "Buzz Bus." That was a Student Gov­ernment project. And the committee should not have to offer a way "for an intoxicated student to call ... someone at the University as an alternative to get­ting behind the wheel drunk." Such op­tions have always existed. RAs and Rectors are available. And what about friends? The student may be embar­rassed-but he will arrive home alive. 
If the Observer was looking for the first thing to attack editorially, they chose the wrong victim. This new policy is a sound document which can only help prevent drunk driving at and around Notre Dame. 
Matthew Bradley Grace Hall 


Dogbook decision forgets seniors 
Dear Editor: 
In regards to the cancellation of the Junior dogbook, we feel that the con­tract should not have been cancelled. We have an interest in this "dogbook" too. Seniors should have been consulted before deciding to cancel the contract. 
This updated version of the Fresh­man dogbook is ouronly joint yearbook. After spending 4 years together, we have made many friends, most of whom we will not see on a regular basis after graduation. This Junior dogbook serves as a momento for both St. Mary's and Notre Dame students since we cannot buy each other's yearbook. 
We want our Junior dogbook whether it be now, or December. Please recon­sider your decision, Senior officers. 
.Wary Luenrs Lisa Yee Lisa Schwartz Christine J. DiDonato LeMans Hall 


Quote of the Day 
"Get someone else to blow your horn and the sound will carry twice as far." 
Will Rogers 



Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, September 16, 1987 

Cartoon's racial slur inappropriate 
Featured in the September issue of Scholastic is the "Life in Hell" syndica­tion of cartoonist Matt Groening who attempts to capture the comic side of a very serious issue. The cartoon centers around a young student rebel who as a result of his academic shortcomings, is subjected to a barrage of psychological and physical abuse 
Cheryl Ann Leslie 
guest column 
levied upon him by a succession of teachers as he progresses or rather regresses through grammar and high school. What made the cartoon so humorous was the fact that the gripes and punishments employed by the teachers of our young rebel were al­most identical to those which many of us remember from days of old. 
Humorous that is until our young rebel reaches eighth grade and the cap­tion shows his teacher warning him that life will not be so merry when he reaches high school where he will encounter "gangs, drug pushers and Negroes." 
My initial reaction to this obvious ra­cial slur which dared to put blacks into the same context as criminals was ex­treme hurt and indignation. The fact that several people put blacks into such context mentally is a part of life. But to see it in print in a student publication here at Notre Dame is an outrage. The printing of such a passage was a slap in the face showing that not only the cartoonist but the editors of Scholastic have no consideration for the segment of the population which is highly offen­ded by the caption or the rest of the student body who should find it embar­rassing and demeaning to the Univer­sity as a whole. 
Unlike our young student rebel in the cartoon, I attended a predominantly black grammar as well as high school. Ironically, our teachers also instilled into our student body a perception of the students we would encounter in our quest for higher education. Unlike the teacher featured in the cartoon who chose to associate blacks with criminals our teachers referred to stu­dents whose race and backgrounds dif­fered from our own as bright, motivated, open-minded and a good source to facilitate an exchange of knowledge and culture. In other words they were much like ourselves. I wonder what these same teachers will think when they receive a copy of this issue of Scholastic. The adjectives which come to my mind are insensitive, crude and tasteless. 
From Matt Groening, the witty car­toonist who lays claim to the passage, I think that a sincere apology is in or­der. Surely the teachers of our young rebel also warned him about the con­sequences of insensitivity and a lack of good taste. Only the very immature could find such a passage "humorous." 
And to the editors of Scholastic I must ask, "If such offensive material is per­mitted publication; exactly what type of material is it that you choose to edit?" Publishing material such as that found in Mr. Groening's cartoon is a bad sense of judgment and a complete disregard of your obligations to the stu­dent body whose voice you claim to rep­resent. From you also an apology is in order to the student body and everyone else who was subjected to reading such tasteless material in our magazine: 
Cheryl Ann Leslie is a sophomore in the College ofBusiness Administration. 



Papal visit needs the support of all 
A visit of the Pope, the vicar of Christ and the visible head of the of the mysti­cal body of Christ on earth, is no small occasion. With John Paul II's second pastoral trip to this country, it is time for all of us to pause and consider how we can best take advantage of the visit, and how we can support the Pope in his mission. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
guest column 
The theme of this visit is "Unity in the Work of Service," and the words of Jesus Christ recorded by St. John at the Last Supper spring to mind: "That they may be one Father, even as you and I are one." 1,954 years after the first Pen­tecost we must ask ourselves, how is this unity Christ wanted for us? Were we each to make some concrete resolu­tion to strengthen unity in the one, holy, Catholic and apostolic Church and to pray more, much more, and much more insistently, for that unity, we would make a great contribution to the success of the Papal visit. 
But the problem is that many of us are apathetic and indifferent. Our hearts perhaps are not in the right place and our priorities may be a bit inverted. A visit from the Holy Father fills us perhaps with more curiosity than en­thusiasm. He is a nice guy, a skillful politician and diplomat, a VIP. Perhaps we harbor a vague wish that his trip be a success, that he avoid unpleasant encounters with the media or the dissi­dent groups of one stripe or another that hope to confront him and relish the notoriety to be had from harassing a man of the Pope's position and stature. Maybe those of us with more acute theological sensibilities hope the Pope straightens out the Catholic Church in the United States, that he lays down the law and reproves the all too many members of the Church, clerics and laity, theologians and non-theologians alike, who openly reject Church teach­ing. We delight in this prospect of a tidied ship, but the thought of uniting ourselves to the Pope on his visit by sacrifice and intense prayer for unity does not occur to us. Chances are, foot­ball games, social events, classes, and other such things, excellent in them­
selves, have the best of our attention. The Pope's visit interests us, but not nearly enough for us to do anything about it. And are we honest with our­selves about this? 
The United States Catholic Confer­ence has written and widely distributed a "Prayer to Prepare for the Visit of John Paul II." Perhaps the most signif­icant petition in the prayer is: "May we also become signs of reconciliation in the world and builders of unity in the Church." How can we do this? Most of us probably remember the cover of Time magazine on January 9, 1984. It had a picture of Pope John Paul II with his arm around his assailant Mehmet Alii Agca. With his right hand, the Pope was holding the hand of Agca's that pulled the trigger. The caption read: "Why forgive?" This indeed was a sign of reconciliation in the world. The story went on to explain how the Holy Father had given "a lesson in forgiveness for a troubled world." In glowing phrases such as "an extraordinary moment of grace," "(a) startling drama of for­giveness and reconciliation," "difficult to imagine a more perfect economy of drama", the journalists recorded this remarkable act of John Paul II. He turned the other cheek, befriended his enemy, and forgave without hesitation. 
As we recall this let us ask ourselves who the true signs of reconciliation and builders of unity are: is it John Paul II who has tirelessly expended himself in his effort to preserve the members of the Catholic Church in their faith and in unity with the Church of All Ages, or the self-styled "Pope-bashers" who never miss an opportunity, it seems, to treat the Church and Her leadership as if it were just another human institu­tion? 
We can build Church unity, and in so doing promote peace and unity in a very broken world, by adhering to Papal au­thority; we too can be signs of recon­ciliation by praying unceasingly that all members of the Church, and those people of good will to whom the Church forever has its arms open, follow the guidance and the leadership of the Holy Father. 
George Will wrote an interesting column several years ago in Newsweek on the Pope and authority in the Cath­olic Church. It was noteworthy of its clear-minded common sense and of added significance because Will is not a member of the Roman Catholic Faith. In the column, Will underscored the need for any functioning and lasting in­stitution to have a common core of con­victions and an authoritative body to preserve these convictions, nurture and defend them. Said Will: "There must be a point at which private judgment by any member of the community is circumscribed by institutional judg­ment. And some person or body ...must decide where this points are." Yes, the Church is an institution, an institution both divine and human, but an institu­tion nonetheless. The endless divisions that have characterized Protestantism since its inception and must be a source of discouragement for anyone looking 
at  Christianity from  the outside  are  
well-known.  And  today  within  the  
Roman  Catholic  Church  there  are  

forces at work seeking to undermine Papal authority and Church unity--not a new story, but something that must remain for us a matter of great con­cern. Masquerading as intellectuals of great and profound learning, these in­dividuals are quick to claim for them­selves precisely what they deny the Pope. During the Hans Kung contro­versy several years ago, there was a joke circulating in Rome that Pope Paul VI was apparently not aware of. The joke related that as a way of resolv­ing the controversy between Kung and the teaching authority of the Church, Kung was offered the Papacy. He refused instantly and replied, with great candor: "No thanks, I'd rather keep infallibility." 
Our faith in the guidance of the Holy Father is not a faith in human wisdon but in faith in work of the Holy Spirit: " What you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven." We members of the Roman Catholic Church do not accept the Pope's authority because he is a smart man, a scholar, or an intellectual admired by the media. We submit to the Pope's guidance because as the des­cendent of St. Peter, first Vicar of Christ, he has the "keys of the kingdom" and a judgment pertaining to matters of faith and morals which is assisted by the Holy Spirit in a manner no other member of the Church can claim (as Lumen Gentium makes clear, see n.22). Unity with the Pope is unity with the Holy Spirit. We stray from his guidance at our own risk and we must beware the pride that would keep us from submitting to his divinely entrusted authority and would obscure our sense of the very genuine need for authority within the institution of the Church. 
Let the "experts," "authoritative commentators," and dissident groups sow seeds of discord. Let us support the Pope in his visit while we pray for those who would rather see it fail and whose intentions we cannot judge. In the meanwhile we can also turn to the Blessed Mother, Mother of the Church, in this Marian Year and pray that she intercedes for us to obtain that which the Church and the world so desperately need. 
So the Pope is coming. A rosary of­fered up for the Pope's intentions, a visit to the Grotto to pray for Church unity, even a bit of fasting--it is the very least we can do as members of the Church ... if our hearts are in the right place. 
rhomas D. D'Andrea is a Graduate Stu­dent. 


Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something in­tellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
General Board


The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 ManagqJ Editor ..... ....................... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Mc;.nager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor. .. .................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpcint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor.. .. .............. Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 



Accent 
page 9 Wednesday, September 16, 1987 

FLORENTINE HOELKER accent writer 
T
he Radiation Laboratory Is perhaps the most mysteri­ous construction on campus. We've all seen It and wondered, "What goes on In there?" or, "Is It true that students go In there to do research and never return?" or perhaps, "Does It glow at night?" 
Answers to tough questions like these were given by the assistant director of the lab, Dr. John Bentley. Having been the assistant director for the past three years and on the lab faculty for over six years, Dr. Bentley Is very famllar with the lab and seemed eager to an­swer any questions concerning the lab and Its operations. 
The lab Itself, althougn mys­terious from the outside, ap­pears normal from the Inside. It holds the usual amount of offices, desks, and rooms full of scientific equipment that one might expect to find In a sci­ence laboratory building. In 
Attacking anxiety 
A look inside the Radiation Lab 
the lab are the same as those that might exist In a chemistry lab, because the very nature of the research Implies that some "dangerous experiments" will take place. However, the ex­periments hold well-known dangers and are conducted under so many controls and safeguards that real dangers to the public are negligible. 
As for those questions about whether or not the place glows In the dark. no experiments Involving radiation have taken place In several years. The only radioactive sources are kept well underground, stored, se­cured, and safely contained. I observed them myself when Bentley took me on a tour, and I haven't begun to radiate yet. so they must be fairly safe. 
Most Importantly, none of the ten graduate students working there has disappeared yet. ac­cording to Bentley, and the undergraduate student working for the director Is seemingly 
alive and weli. Unfortunately, our photographer still hasn't come back.... 

sense that something is about 
to go horribly wrong, or it's the 
horrible, gnawing feeling that 
invades your body and mind 
when you realize that someth­
Ing has already gone horribly 
wrong and it's way too late to 
blame It on someone else. It 
may also be a combination of 
those two or maybe something 
completely different. Thinking 
about It fills me with anxiety so 
we'll give that up. 
To make matters more com­
plicated, there are several dif­
ferent kinds of anxiety. The 
first type we'll label Type A anx­
Iety. Type A anxiety occurs 
when you're absolutely sure 
that you've botched something 
In a big way and It's all over. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
choices. 

Choice One: Run like hell. Whoever said that running from your problems didn't solve them was wrong. Running away from parents, professors, l~w officers and friends at high speed Is an excellent way to confuse the issue and gain valuable time. So the next time you are suddenly faced with the ugly results of your own stupidity, pig-headedness, just­plain-obnoxiousness, etc., turn and runl If you stand there you will be held accountable, and there Is always someone more accountable, even if they don't know It yet. Running Is good for you, too. 
Choice Two: Lie. If the most 
powerful men in our govern­
ment can do it, why can't you? 
Start off telling little white lies 
to friends and family ("Heck 
no, I'd never spill Coke on your 
CD player" and "No, seriously, 
you look great today!"). This 
will enable you to master the 
facial expressions and whiny 
voice of the experienced liar. 
Later, when you really mess 
something up, you will be able 
to tell the big lies (I can 
honestly say that I never 
received a Mercedes OR a large 
cash bonus to play football for 
SMU..."). 
Choice Three: Drink. Many people believe, and it's been tested again and again, that being totally unaware of your surroundings, your situation, or even your name Is an excel­lent way to relax and forget your anxieties and problems. Other, smaller-minded people refer to this process simply as "passing out" but those people 
just aren't very Imaginative. 
Choice Four: Take Hostages. This seems to be the hip thing to do when faced with a big problem. Round up the closest thirty or forty innocent bystanders and demand that your "D" be changed to an "A minus" or you will force each 
Bill Watterson 

fact. as I was led from room to 
room, glancing at all the tubes, 
computer screens, lasers, and 
Van de Graff generators, only 
three words came to mind: 
typical science laboratory. 
Working under a $.3.5 million annual budget. the Radiation Lab does what Bentley calls "pure research." Since the Uni­versity operates the lab under contract with the Department of Energy, which supplies all of the lab's funds, It Is required to ensure that the lab does only certain kinds of research to further energy conservation. As Bentley expressed It the lab conducts "studies of chemical reactions when energy is dis­sipated In a hurry" under various conditions. However, under this broad spectrum, researchers are free to pick and choose experiments. 
With regard to supposed dangers in the lab or possible hazards to the outside populace, Bentley reports that there Is very little, If anything, to worry about. Any hazards in 

Y
es, welcome again to "Al­tered", the column with the rich, full-bodied taste of stupidity but only half the calories. This week's subject is the early adulthood anxiety at­tack. Anxiety Is kind of hard to define. It's either the horrible, gnawing feeling that invades your body and mind when you An example of this would be sleeping through a test wreck­ing your roommate's car, throwing up in front of your rector or saving Michigan tick­ets for your friends. This type of anxiety never lasts long be­cause there's no suspense. Your life is over and you are left with a few well-defined 
Krls Murphy 
Altered 

'I 
and every one of your hostages to watch "Different Strokes" reruns, causing all of them per­manent brain damage. 
Type B anxiety is much more complicated, because the cause of the anxiety is com­pletely unknown. You are sure that something, somewhere is going to go wrong at any min­ute, but you don't have the slightest idea why or when. This feeling often occurs at off-campus parties where you might be attacked by vicious police dogs, shot at by trigger­happy neighbors or forced to drink enough Old Milwaukee to ruin your kidneys for life. Then again, you might have a great time. Unfortunately you don't know till you go. 
Extreme Type B anxiety oc­curs when you wake up with the feeling that something is wrong, but you can't put your finger on it. This is called "floating anxiety" because I like the way that sounds. If you wake up with a feeling of float­ing anxiety, your best option is to get back under your covers and scream for help. If this is impossible, call Psych Services and sing "La Bamba" into the phone at the top of your lungs. This should qualify you for some time off from school or at least some interesting medication. 
Floating anxiety is often 
accompanied by questions like "What am I going to do with my life?", "Am I dumb or just lazy?" and the ever-popular "Huh? What?". Don't try to an­swer these questions. Thinking about the hundreds of choices to be made and the definite possibility that you might end up working at a car wash is bound to make you even more anxious. If floating anxiety per· sists for longer than a month, begin talking to yourself, roll your eyes and wander through the streets of South Bend drooling on passers-by. This Is called "going nuts" or "acting like a fruitcake." The last type of anxiety, Type C, is directed at threats that you understand but can do nothing about, such as the threat of nuclear war, fatal Ill­ness or your roommate's smelly feet. Realizing that we live In a world much larger than ourselves, with problems we can only surmount with the help of the entire human com­munity, will take you a long way towards understanding and controlling Type C anxiety. Re­alizing that I know nothing about Pychology would prob­
,
ably be even more helpful. 
What? It's time for my medication? Again? But doc. This is Kris Murphy signing off from the anxiety ward at Notre Dame Psych Services. . . . 


page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1987 
Why not? Where's the end ... ll-But lest we forget, the Irish Penn State and Miami. Maybe No. 9 spot after being ranked 0?! once again have one of the Thanksgiving should be a week 16th last week. 

Irish 

Yes, I'm getting a little tougest schedules in the nation, later so we can give thanks for And if the continued from back page carried away. Maybe a lot if not the toughest. Michigan getting through those three Irish win again? And again? Bavaro, the White Sox won the carried away. But so are a lot State and Pittsburgh are games. OK, I'll stop there. But hope­AL West and Michael Jackson's of people these days. Two guys stronger than they have been With that little caution in fully the victories will keep "Thriller" was MTV's number­in Dooley's on Saturday were in a long time, and will cer­mind, let's turn to the praise. coming and the polls will con­one video. debating which bowl would be tainly give Notre Dame a lot of The best accolade came from tinue to reflect what we are all 
Next we play Michigan State. better for Notre Dame -Sugar trouble. November will bring the Associated Press yesterday saying now. Heck, we could go 2-0. Then 3-0. or Cotton. Not if, but which one. us the big three -Alabama, when the Irish moved up to the Here Come The Irish!. 
n.a.-..Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, .ccepta claaalfled .m.tlsmg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.a.-..s.Jnt ~office, located on the third floor of tt.uu-Collge Center, .ccepta claaalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day claaalfleda Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must

Classifieds be .,.....,.td, either In peraon CK by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:MrKterll per day. 
NOTICES 
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949; H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING: WORD PRO· CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY: 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
MY CHICK is in Pittsburgh and needs a ride too her alma mater (ND) for the ND -Mich ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out lor the game who could give her a ride from the Pit­tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239-5303 any time of the day or night 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on BOB Howard St at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weetv 10:00 a.m.-5:30. 
With, receive an extra 10% off on pur­
chases of used paperbacks (in stock) at 
Pandora's Bookstore, located at BOB 
Howard St at Notre Dame Ave. We're 
open 7 days a weeiV 10:00 a.m.-5:30 
p.m. 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 
Need one Mlch St student ticket Call Kevin at 239-5303 
MUSTGETTO OHIO THIS WEEKEND.$$MIKEx2119 
Terrie's Typ•ni}Word processing 287­1283, close to campus 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: Pair of Nike Air Max size 8 112. From my locker at Rock. Reward. No ques. asked. Call Brad 232-6428 affer 8pm. 
found: one watch with broken band. feminine. found in stephan fields about one week ago. call 1384 otherwise my SISter gets it 
LOST-I lost my calculus notebook and text while studying at a Michigan game ta1tgater at Ann Arbor. If found, please call TOM HAND at £3172 
HELP! I LOST MY KEYS, DETEX, WASHINGTON STATE DRIVERS LICENSE. CALL 2971. 
LOST: WOMAN'S GOLD RING WITH BLUE STAR SAPPHIRE STONE. I WILL BE SO HAPPY TO GET IT BACK THAT I WILL NAME MY FIRST SIX CHILDREN AFTER THE FINDER, REGARDLESS OF SEX. PLEASE CALL CAROLE 271­0575. 
LOST!!! A GOLD HERRINGBONE NECKLACE. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO STEPHANIE. CALL ANYTIME AT 284­5183. THANXII 
FOR RENT 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR ND. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
Room for rent Call Mrs. Cooper 272· 3004. 
FOR RENT FURNISHED, BEAUTIFUL 3 BEDROOM APT 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 6298 
MOVE IN NOW! FREE RENT UNTIL 1(}25<87. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­ments available, each with kitchen, full bathroom and large living room. Beds and dressers furnished. Rent includes all utilities. Call 232-9239 lor appointment 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BORHOOD 255-36841288-0955 
B & B in quiet country setting just 7 miles from campus. Two night mim. $45.00 per night. (616) 684-3751 for info. or reserva­tions. 
WANTED 

HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON! 
NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA TICK· ETS. WILL PAY$$$! CALL MIKE X4340 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
I NEED BC TIX. ALOT. THEY'VE ALREADY BOUGHT PLANE TIX. Please call Jim at 271-0763. · 
Responsible part-time help wanted. Flexible hours. 232-9918. 
Potter needs assistant. Prefer applicant with one clay course and or a strong interest 20 hours a week, flexible to fit your schedule. Start at $3.75. Call 277­1341 
Responsible individuals needed for gen­eral theatre work. Apply M-T-W from 2-4 pm., University Park Mall Cinema. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Anyone going home to Indy or Cincinnati the weekend of Sept. 25? I live in SE Indiana and need a ride. Willing to share gas money. 'Call Melissa at 2750. 
I need Penn St GA's call Marty-1 050 
SWIM INSTRUCTORS -Volunteers needed to work with mentally handi­capped children and adults in Beginner Level swim classes. Classes on Saturday mornings andklr Wednesday evenings; individual instruction. Please call Bill Thomas -289-4831. 
WANTED: One Mich. State Ticket for little sister who has never seen N.D. game. Will pay $! Call 277-3254. 
The lew, the proud, The Marine Without A Date. I, Midshipman First Class "Killer" Kelleher, desperately need a date (preferably female) to the Navy BaiL Please call me at 283-2281. 
PART TIME SALES PERSONNEL NEEDED IMMEDIATELY AT THE PEACOCK, A WOMEN'S APPAREL SHOP, IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL EVENINGS, WEEKENDS, AFTER­NOONS. PLEASE APPLY AT THE STORE. 
FOR SALE 

Couches, chairs, tables Very reasonable. Call Mrs. Cooper affer 6:00. 272-6085 
MACINTOSH 512K printer wilASIC,PASCAL, &SPREADSHEET. Call Tom ,234-8377. 
WWaterbed,Q-size,heater,mattress­
pad,side padding,$125 ,277-1318 
Stereo Audio Mixer,NUMARK model DM­SOO,never used,$50neg.,277-1318 
Macintosh 512K enhanced, lmagewriter printer, misc. soffware. Call Cliff at 4288. 
SENIOR TICKET BOOK for all home games 271-0661 
71 IMPALA $300 277-4576 
TICKETS 

NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233· 5732 
NEED 2 TIX TO ANY ND HOME GAMES. 
CALL 272-3491. GA'S .......................................................... $$$ NAVY TIX $$$ Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen 271-0585 
Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998. 
BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL 4579 
I NEED PENN ST GA'SI MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238. 
WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MATT AT 1404 
························· WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213· 422·2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872 
I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 
I NEED 4 GA'S DESPERATELY MONEY NO OBJECT CALL SEAN X3261 
NFL AGENT NEEDS 2 USC TIX $$$$$ SEAN X3261 
Will trade 2 NAVY GA for 2 USC Call Mike 2204 
NEED 3 MSU TIX, STU OR GA, CALL JOE 2366 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH ST. PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515 
I NEED FIVE GA'S FOR MICH STATE. PLEASE CALL CORY 3561 
EVERYBODY PROMISES MONEY AND BEGS FOR TICKETS, I'm just going to tell it like it is. I need as many GA's as possible to any home game for my whole family. I need 8 in all, but will take them even 1 by 1. Call Dane at 1185. 
I need 1 michigan state GA or Sl-tix. call Peter at 3192 
PAY BIG BUCKS for 2-4 GA's lor Navy game Call John 3179 
NAVY NAVY NAVY Cash for GA'&Stud Todd-3754 
HEY HOLMES II need some 'BAMA TIX GA'S PREFERRED. GOOD MONEY call blll1384 
I NEED 1 M.S.U. GA ANOOR 1 STU­DENT TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 283-1661 
Need GA's lor all home games. Will pay big $. Call John 1837 
AND SHE'S COMING TO THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME WITH DAD SO, I NEED TWO GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE I also need BOSTON COLLEGE GA's and Student tlx If you want cash for your extras, call Steve at232-9816 
I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET PLEASE CALL GINA-289-5608 
Need any MSU stud tixl I'll double your expense! Jim x1584 
DESPERATELY need a student ticket lor MICH ST. Will trade lor any other game or pay $. Call Jenny at 2128. 
Will pay $30 lor 1 stud. ticket lor Mich.St Call Rob 272-8689 
NOT GOING TO BE HERE FOR USC? PUT YOUR MIND AT EASE AND UNLOAD THAT TICKET NOW! CALL DENISE £2494 
.................................. NEED 2 MSU TIX! KEVIN 271-0579 
HELP!!! in need of MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS Call FITZ $$$ ££££ 3758 Please!!! 
oEs'PEiFiArELv· NEEo ..4. usc..ciA'·s: 
CAL~ JENNY 284·4154 
CHIEF NEED 2 MSU GA'S CALL EXT. 1609. 
WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321­8269 9·5 EST. 
MSU Need two Michigan State GAs. Call Max at 283-1542 or 283-1543. Go forth and Go Irish! 
Dear Student: Expecting a lot of homework lor the MSU weekend? I'll pay you UP TO $100 for your 1 student or GA ticket PLEASE CALL GUS AT x3641 or x3630 
Help Mel! Please!! Need 1 Mich St Stud or GA tix. Will PAY BIG $$$$ call Rich X2050. 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 
I MUST GET 4 MICH ST GA TIX-$45 PLUS HELP AMY £25741 
Need MSU tix! 1 Stud and 2 GAs Call Kevin 271-9479 $$$ 
Need 2 or 4 MSU GA's!!! Call Lisa at 4588. 
Need Boston College GA's --will pay $$!! Call4302. 
WANTED 3 SOUTHERN CAL TICKETS REAL MONEY! CALL 233 6298 
SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL­ING TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 2576!! 
CAN YOU HELP? Mom and Dad would love 2 GAs to USC game Will pay $$$! Call Kathy at 2602. 
NEED 5 MSU GA'S OR STUDENT TIX! Call JANE 283-4228, or KATHY 3607 
USC ¢ PARENTS 
HELP! I NEED 1 BC STUD. TICKET­PLEASE CALL JULIE 3512. 
I NEED MICH.ST. GA'S 1741 MIKE 
I NEED FOUR TIX FOR MICHIGAN STATE. THE FAMILY IS IN TOWN. 2 GA's AND 2 STUD OR 4 GA's. PAUL £2185. 
················································· 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL PAUL 283-3431 
I NEED MSU, PURDUE, & ALL HOME GAME GA'S. 272·6306 
Will beat any offer on Mich. State student ticket Call Christy 3829 
················································· Need MSU Tickets -Will pay dearly -Call 234-8377 
WANTED: 2 USC Tix for mom and dad call Kris 3099 
$$ for your Mich. St student tix Call Jon 2006 
NAVY-NEED 2 GA'S USC-NEED 1 STUD. JOHN x1867 
I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN AT-1980 
····················· 

I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE 
NEED 2 MSU TICKETS FOR PARENTS PLEASE I'M DESPERATE!!!!! CALL JIM X-3540 
NEED 2 M.S.U. GA'S CALL PAUL £1116 
OOPS! 
Sis is coming, too. So I need another 
Michigan State ticket. Call Mike at 271­
0765. 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 MSU TICK­ETS. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 4259. THANKS! 
mom and UTILE SISTER have never been to NOTRE DAME. Coming in OC­TOBER and need tickets lor either game.(Can you hear the violins? Well then can you hear the sound of BIG BUCKS? My Mom is a pigeon.) Call JOE at 3642 or MIKE at 3656. 
NEED 2 MSU TIXS CALL X2287 
HELP!!! I KNOW YOU'RE SICK OF DES­PERATE PLEAS FOR TICKETS, BUT I'VE JUST GOT TO HAVE TWO STU­DENT OR GA TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. PLEASE CALL CAROLE AT 271-0575 
I need 1 stud tick to the Navy game! Will pay$$$ or· beer. call Mark F.(1422) 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL KEVIN 315·339· 5254. 
1 GA FOR USC -PLEASE SELL YOURS TO ME! CALL "ALASKA" £3007 
HELP!! NEED 1 MSU STUD. TICKET, WILL PAY BIG $$$$ CALL JOHN AT 1968 
NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS FOR SISTER AND FRIEND CONTACT KRIS AT 284­5418 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UPI 
NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 
WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL 284-4329 
TONIGHT AT 8:00 FR. JOHN DUNNE WILL LEAD AN INFORMAL DISCUS­SION FOR THEOLOGY MAJORS AND OTHER INTERESTED PERSONS IN 341 O'SHAUGNESSY. 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (GLNOOMC) BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL ALYSSA 3736 
Mad Macs-Mclntosh Users Group First meeting, 7 p.m., Thursday, Sept. 17 in Room 124 in Hayes-Healy. Hyper Card, Multi-Finder, The Mac II and morel M,ac experts, novices, and new members welcome. 
Need Calculus tutor. I am sinking last in Calc 117. You must understand more than I do or I'll sink even laster. I'm serious. call bill 1384. 
The guys who slept ON the car in Ann Arbor want to thank all the Demers and Domettes that stopped by to stare, laugh, praise, and make sure our parking meter didn't run out. Party at our house MSU weekend and see ya all at Purdue! Mike & Bob 
HEAVY METAL RETURNS TO WVFI 
METAL MAYHEM SUNDAYS 7-9 
LOOK -You've seen all of these really stupid ads about needing MSU tix, how someone's pregnant mother and dying sister need 2 GA's or the student will be cursed to helL Seriously, folks, I need lots of tix or I'm DEAD MEAT. Simple as that. I'm from East Lansing and I can't get any more from up there. So my fellow students, you are my last hope. Sorority girls, family, Domer brother's roommates, friends at MSU all need 'em. Call Hasbro at £3498 or £3506 or my life is OVER !! 
KEVIN, DON'T DO IT! THE "CUSH LIFE" ENDS WHEN YOU SAY, "I DO" 
INNOCENT PARTY TO BLAME EVERY MON & WED 5:30 STEPAN 
SPEAK UP and JOIN TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL! Wednesdays 7:30p.m. 223 Hayes-Healy 
TOASTMASTERS! TOASTMASTERS! TOASTMASTERS' Wednesdays 7:30p.m. 223 Hayes-Healy 
WILD AND INNOCENT-3169 
ATIN: SPRING LONDONERS: Dinner every Wednesday 6:00-7:00 Top of S. Dining Hall!!!!! 
$$HELP!!!$$ NEED MSU AND USC TICKETS STUDENT OR GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID £3592 
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. CALL 284­5123 
Michigan can be beat but the Yellow sub can't quick delivery 272-hike 
Hey Penelope, Bambi, Daphne, Tina and Felicia the mute--you better be careful on your next 'ultimate roadtnp' because I'm going to take some incriminating pic­tures. (yeah, more incriminating than a glass of water)Hey don't you know that 'cheerleaders' shouldn't slam Buds in the bathroom? -yolanda 
ARE YOU SHORT AND MALE? DO YOU HAVE A SEXUAL COMPLEX? COULD BRIAN BE YOUR CLONE? 
THEN MAYBE YOU TOO CAN PUT IN "BAMBI-JIM" PERSONALS... 
maureen Because you are Invariably a Terrific pain in the butt for Countless fun-loving seniors, Have mercy on us all. 
Who's carless but not clueless? Who's helpful, not hopeless? Who's week is this, anyway? 
Be nice to Beth this week. 
Don't ask why 
Just do it 
KATIE-I'm REAL sorry' -one ot three in dark glasses 
Verne the "Big Guy" is awaiting the ar­rival of Miss Colorado. He'll take her to Bob Evans and the river for figs. Only a few days to go. Can he "surPRISER?" The countdown continues. Stay tuned for more ... 
Blanche is back!! and she's hotter than ever. £4060 for the scoop. 
"''m gonna get in the car and PUKE on all the girls!!!" Eric "Grumpty-Dump" Emerson 
I'M YOUNG AND RESTLESS AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY, SEPT. 25. BUT THIS GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS RIDERS I COMING? CALL JODI AT 1282. 
YO, GIRLS! STANFORD HALL FOOD­SALES WILL AGAIN DELIVER TONITE TO ALL NORTH QUAD GIRLS' DORMS 8-10. AREN'T YOU HUNGRY? 
Woman shortage at ND or Where's my sister? 
DARLING DICK, THE MINUTES SEEM LIKE YEARS WITHOUT YOU. I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU PAS­SIONATELY YOURS, JANE 
To 4th Floor Keenan: Mer our Michigan weekend we're all joining AA!! How about our first meeting at Strawberry Lake? HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM!!!!! Love, 2nd Floor LeMans 
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS Meeting TODAY, 6:30-7, Library Lounge LE CERCLE FRANCAIS 
ADVICE FROM HENRIETTA: Beware of men with a monkey in every country. 
Dave Shearon, where are you? 
J.P. PLEASE INVITE ME TO YOUR PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT! -YOUR U2 POSTER 
Bobbl: 
I'll be there tonight. So will you. Jim 
DENNIS. JIM and MARTY AGAIN THANK YOU!! IT WAS A GOOD TIME JO, JEANNE, CAtLIN & ANN 
PAUL KOLECKI YOUR BEAUTIFUL!!!!! YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
JEANNE -WHO'S FICKLE??????? 
DAVE, HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY (ONLY 1 MORE YEAR) LOVE VA, JO 
I NEED 2 MSU TIX. GA OR STUD. CALL 2034. 
TO LITTLE MISS MALICIOUS:Guess what M.I.S REALLY stands lor.Majoring In Stupidity(Just k1dding!).From S.(the guy with the REAL major). 
Class of '88 Third-Thursday Bowling Thursday September 17 9:30 Beacon Bowl THE TRADITION CONTINUES 
Happy 19th WOM-ANNE Mowchan!! Maybe he'll let you carry his books' Have a helluva day · your buddies 
RUSSELL, I don't know what it is about you--s but you're the duck1est of them all. GLADYS 
TOP FIVE QUOTES FROM MICHIGAN WEEKEND 1. Hey Jim, is O'Gara horny or what? Look at him go! 2. There's Deke: should I spit on him? 3. My insurance? It's right here. 4. I get so emotional over these things. 5. Fine. It'll just be guys mght out. So there. 
KELLY 0. YOU BAD DUDE! STEP LIVELY ON SATURDAY. 
Happy Birthday Marla Susana!!! We know what you're going to wish for! Love, Your Roomies (A,T,MK,Pooh & 
Scooby) 
Oye Pollito, FELIZ CUMPLEANOS! Sue, Mary, y Janette 
MONSTERMANIA'CATCHIT!!! Happy 21st monst,hope it's fun. L,MONST. 
THANK YOU 5N McCandless: You truly are the greatest friends anyone could ask lor. You made my 21st the best! Marie 
There are worse things than being alone but it often takes decades to realize this and most offen when you do it's too late and there's nothing worse than too late st 
NEED$$ babysitler needed during msu game! my place or yours? call 5150 at smc 
NEED A RIDE TO READING PENN. OR PHILADELPHIA OR ALLENTOWN FOR FAlL BREAK... CONTACT KRIS AT 284-5418 
Remember 
no matter 
where 
you go, 
there 
you 
are 
Buckaroo Banzai 

September 16. 1987 The Observer page 11 


Sports Wednesday 


American League National League Sports Lists 
NATIONAL CONFI!RENCE Eaat 
Eaat 
Eat w L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GB 
WLTPct. PF PA Detroit 87 57 .804 St. Louis 59 .587 
OF REFRIGERATORS AND•• e
64 
St. Louis 1 0 01.000 24 13 'toronto 87 57 .604 New Vorl< 83 61 .576 1.5 Washington 1 0 01.000 34 24 New York 80 64 .558 7 Montreal 
Eight Heaviest Players in the NFL
81 62 .586 3 
Dallas 0 0 .000 13 24 Milwaukee 80 65 .552 7.5 Philadelphia 72 72 .500 12.5 
N.Y. Giants 0 0 .000 19 34 Boston 69 74 .483 17.5 Chicago 70 73 .490 14 
Philadelphia 0 1 0 .000 24 34 Baltimore 62 82 .431 25 Pltteburgh 69 75 .479 15.5 Central Cleveland 56 90 .384 32 
Wut Chicago 1 0 01.000 34 19 Weal San Francisco 79 66 .545 Minnesota 1 0 01.000 34 19 Minnesota 77 69 .527 Cincinnati 72 73 .497 7 Tampa Bay 1 0 01.000 48 10 Kansaa City 73 72 .503 3.5 Houston 71 73 .493 7.5 Detro~ 0 1 0 .000 19 34 Oakland 73 72 .503 3.5 
Atlanta 62 81 .434 16 Green Bay 0 1 0 .000 0 20 Calllomla 69 76 .476 7.5 Loa Angeles 61 63 .424 17.5 Wnt Texas 69 76 .476 7.5 San Diego 59 .410
85 19.5 
New Orleans 1 0 01.000 28 21 Seattle 67 77 .465 9 Atlanta 0 1 0 .000 10 48 Chicago 63 81 .438 13 Tueaday'a ReauHa 
L.A. Rams 010.000 16 20 Cincinnati 21, Atlanta 6 
San Francisco 010.000 17 30 Tuaaday'a RaauHa New York 12, Chicago 4 New Vorl< 4, Milwaukee 3 
St. Louis 4, Philadelphia 3 AMERICAN CONFERENCE Pittsburgh 5, Montreal 1
Detroit 9, Boston 8 Ent Toronto 6, Baltimore 2 
Loa Angeles 3, Houston 2 W L TPet. PF Chicago 8, Minnesota 2
PA San Francisco 13, San Diego 3 New England 1 0 01.000 28 21 Calllomla 7, Kansas City 1 
N.Y. Jete 1 0 01.000 31 28 Oakland 6, Texas 5 Buffalo 0 1 0 .000 28 31 Cleveland 4, Seattle 2 Wadnaaday'a Gamaa Indianapolis 0 1 0 .000 21 23 Wadnaaday'a Game• Houston (Scott 15·11) at San Francisco (Dravecky 
Miami 0 1 0 .000 21 28 Cleveland (Farrell 4·0) at Seattle (Campbell 0·4) 9·10) 
Central Milwaukee (Higuera 16·9) at New York (John 12·5) New York (Gooden 13-6) at Montreal (lea 0·0) Cincinnati 1 0 01.000 23 21 Boston (Sellers 7·7) at Detron (Morris 17·8) Chicago (lancaster 7·1) at Philadelphia (Toliver 1-1) Houoton 1 0 01.000 20 16 Baltimore (Habyan 4-5) at Toronto (Key 16·6) St. Louis (Tudor 6·2) at Pltteburgh (Drabek 8·11) Plttaburgh 1 0 01.000 30 17 Minnesota (Smithson 4-8) at Chicago (Deleon 10· Atlanta (Coffman 0·2) at San Diego (Grant 6·7) Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 21 28 12) 
Wnt California (Candelaria 8·6) at Kansas City Thuraday'a Gam•• Denver 1 0 01.000 40 17 (Saberhagen 17·8) Chicago at Philadelphia Kansas City 1 0 01.000 20 13 Oakland (Stewart 19·10) at Texaa (Hough 16·11) Houston at San Francisco 
L.A. Aalders 1 0 01.000 20 0 Thuraday'a Gamea Cincinnati at Los Angeles, 2 San Diego 0 1 0 .000 13 20 Toronto at New York New York at Montreal 
Source: Football Register and SFS Research, ·1986 
Seattle 0 1 0 .000 17 40 Seattle at Chicago St. Louis at Pittsburgh Callfomla at Kansas City Atlanta at San DiegoMonday'• Ruult Chicago 34, New York Giants 19 
Sunday'a GamM Canada Cup Scoreboard 
Denver vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee Houston at Buffalo Final Standing• Miami at Indianapolis w L T GF GA P\a. 
Results for Sept. 9 through 15
New Orleans at Philadelphia Canada 3 0 2 19 13 8 Soccer Women's Cross Country Pntaburgh at Cleveland Soviet Union 3 1 1 22 13 7 Football ND 2, Western Michigan 0 NO 25, Detroit 35, Malcomb 82 
San Francisco at Cincinnati Swaden 3 2 0 17 14 6 
ND 26, Michigan 7 ND 4, Indiana 3, OT 
Tampa Bay at Chicago Czechoslovakia 2 2 1 12 15 5 Wuhlngton at Atlanta United States 2 3 0 13 14 4 Dallas at New York Giants Finland 0 5 0 9 23 0 Volleyball Men's Cross Country Women's Tennis Detron at Loa Angeles Raiders Champlonahtp (beat of thnoa) 
ND over Michigan, 15-3, 15-3, 15-6 ND 18, Georgetown 41 ND 9, Northern Illinois 0
Kansu City at Seattle Frtd•y'a RaauH 
Southern Cal over ND, 15·10, 15-12, SMC 9, Valparaiso 0
Minnesota at Los Angeles Rams Soviet Union 6, Canada 5, Ot St. Louis at San Diego Sund•y'a Reault 13-15, 15-7 Field Hockey SMC 8, Wisconsin-Milwaukee 1 Canada 6, Soviet Union 5, 20T ND over Illinois State, 15-7, 15-9, 21-Kent State 4, ND 0 SMC 7, Hillsdale 2 Monday'a Game Tuaad•y'a RaauH 
19, 15-8 Michigan 3, ND 0 SMC 6, DePaul 3
New England at New York Jets Canada 6, Soviet Union 5 
Irish Soccer Sports Calendar AP Top 20 
Through Sunday Today Tha Top Twenty college lootbell t•m• In The How the Associated Press Top Twenty col­Associated Press poll, with firat·placa votes In paren­
lege football teams fared last weekend and

Volleyball at Loyola (Ill.) 
theses, this se880n's recorda and total points. Points 
schedule for Sept. 19:

PLAYER, POSITION G-S SOG G A PTS GW 
baaed on 20-19·18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents Joe Sternberg, MF 5-5 15 5 10 1 are Italicized.
0 Thursday No. 1 Oklahoma (2.0.0) beat North
Bruce McCourt, F 5-5 13 2 5 9 1 
SMC tennis at St. Francis 1. Oklahoma (54) 2-Q-0 1,193 Carolina 28-0; is Idle.
Randy Morns, F 5-5 11 2 4 8 1 2. 1,127
Nebraska (6) 2-D-0 No. 2 Nebraska (2-D-0) beat No. 3 UCLA 
Rolfe Behrje, MF 5-5 7 2 1 5 1 3. Auburn 2·0·0 1,027 42-33; Is idle. 7 2 Friday Louisiana State
Kurt Roemer, MF 5-5 1 4 0 4. 2·0·0 926 No.3 UCLA (1-1-0) lost to No.2 Nebraska 
5. Ohio State 1·0·0 908
John Guignon, ST 5-5 2 1 1 3 0 Soccer vs. MICHIGAN STATE 42·33; vs. Fresno State.
6. M/am/ (Fla.) 1..()..() 873
Danny Stebbins, F 5-0 7 1 0 2 0 Volleyball at Eastern Kentucky lnvita-No. 4 Auburn (2·0·0) beat Kansas 49-0; Is
7. Florida State 2-Q-Q 830 Steve LaVIgne, MF 5-5 5 1 0 2 1 tiona! 8. Clemson 2·0-Q 689 idle. Women's tennis at Midwest Invitational 9. Notl'tl Dame 1..Q-O 819 No. 5 Ohio State (1-0.0) beat West Virginia
Pat Murphy, F 5-0 3 1 0 2 0 
2-Q-0 808

Field hockey at Alma 10. Washington 24-3; vs. Oregon.
Tom Connaghan, F 5-0 1 1 0 2 0 11. 
Alabama 2·0·0 563 No. 6 Louisiana State (2-0-0) beat Fullerton
Steve Lowney, SW 5-5 0 0 1 1 SMC tennis vs. ANDERSON 12. Arkansaa 556
0 1·0·0 
State 56-12; vs. Alee. 

Steve Archer, F 2-0 0 0 1 1 SMC soccer at Findlay 13. UCLA 1·1·0 550
0 No. 7 Miami, Fla. (1-0·0) was Idle; Is Idle.
14. Tennessee 525
Dave Augustyn, WB 5-5 1 0 0 0 0 SMC volleyball at Defiance College 3·0·0 No. 8 Florida State (2.0·0) beat East
15. Arizona State 1-D·O 434
Dan Gordon, WB 5-5 0 0 0 0 0 Tournament 16. Pittsburgh 2..()-Q 286 Carolina 44-3; vs. Memphis State. Paul LaVigne, WB 5-0 1 0 0 0 0 17. Michigan State 1..()..() 251 No. 9 Michigan (0·1·0) lost to No. 16 Notre Mike Drury, SW 5-0 1 0 0 0 0 
18. 
Georgia 2-D·O 187 Dame; vs. Washington State. 

19. 
Michigan 0-1-Q 183 No. 10 Clemson (2.0·0) beat Virginia Tech


Alex Kratz, WB-MF 2-0 0 0 0 0 0 Penn State 1·1·0 140
20. 
22-10; vs. Georgia.

Rob LaMear, MF-F 1-0 0 0 0 0 0 Saturday Tom Pernstelner, WB 1-0 0 0 0 0 Others rsce/vlng votes: Iowa 33, Boston College No. 11 Penn State (1·1·0) lost to No. 19
0 Football vs. MICHIGAN STATE 
25, Texas A&M 19, South Carolina 23, Syracuse5 Volleyball at Eastern Kentucky lnvita-14, Oklahoma State 5, Indiana 3, Eastern Michigan
NOTRE DAME 5 75 17 15 49 Alabama 24-13; vs. Cincinnati. 
No. 12 Washington (2-D-0) beat Purdue

OPPONENTS 5 38 5 3 13 0 tional 1, Florida 1, Oregon 1. 
28-10; at Texas A&M.

Women's tennis at Midwest Invitational 
No. 13 Arkansas (1-0-0) beat Mississippi

Corner Kicks: Notre Dame 33, Opponents 20 SMC soccer at Oberlin 
31-10; vs. Tulsa. 

Penalties: Notre Dame 85, Opponents 90 SMC volleyball at Defiance College 
No. 14 Tennessee (3·0·0) beat Mississippi

Soccer Top 10
Tournament State 38·10; Is Idle. KEEPER G·S MIN G GAA s so No. 15 Arizona State (1·0·0) beat Illinois
RECORD

Dan Lyons 21-7; vs. Pacific.
5-5 480 5 1.00 23 2 5-0·0 Sunday 
No. 16 Notre Dame (1·0.0) beat No.9 Mlc· NOTRE DAME 1-0 10 0 0.00 1 0 0-0-0 Soccer vs. NORTHWESTERN 1. Akron 2·0·2 50 hlgan 26-7; vs. No. 17 Michigan State.5 490 5 1.00 24 2 5-0-Q Women's tennis at Midwest Invitational 2. Evansville 3·2·0 40 No. 17 Michigan State (1.0-0) was idle; at 
Mike Sattan Gnoat Lakaa Region 
OPPONENTS 
5 490 17 3.40 39 0 0·5-D 3. Bowling Green 4-Q..() 38 No. 16 Notre Dame. Monday 4. Not,. Dame 5-0-Q . 32 No. 18 Pittsburgh (2·0·0) beat North SCORE BY PERIODS 1ST 2ND 10T 20T TOTAL Marquetffl 3·1-1 32 
Carolina State 34.0; vs. Temple.

No sports scheduled 6. Indiana 2·2·0
Notre Dame 8 7 2 0 17 22 No. 19 Alabama (2-0-0) beat No. 11 Penn
7. Wisconsin 4-2..() 19
Opponents 3 2 0 0 5 State 24-13; vs. Florida at Birmingham, Ala.
8. Cleveland State. 2-t-0 18 Tuesday 9. Michigan State 1-1..() 7 No. 20 Georgia (2-0-0) beat Oregon State 
10. Miami (Ohio) 2·2-D 4 41-7; at Clemson.
Women's tennis vs. MARQUETIE 

1111111111 •••p••••••••••••••••••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••'''''''''''''"''''''''"'''''''"\ 
,,,,,.., 
Cheers to you, Maria!
/ ~ IRELAND .\... on your • IRISH •

PROGRAM 
20th Birthday! : EXTRA :
Information Sessions
.................................................................... 


: Fridays : 
.Nll 
• in • 

Love,
Tuesday, Sept. 15 Wednesday, Sept.l6 
• The •

Your Roomi
7pm 7pm ! Montgomery Theatre 304 Haggar • Room 811, :Observer : llst floor LaFortune 
I 
The 8-Man, and the Belly Dancer Victim 

a••••••••:

L..........~..~~..~.:.?..~.~""""'""'~~.~~~·~•~""'"'""..J 
..-------------------------------------~~-----------­p~a~g~e~1=2_________________________________________~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r__________________________________w~ed~n~e~s~da~y:, September16, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
The Judo Club will continue to hold practices Sundays from 2-4 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8-10 
p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Shoryn-Ryu karate classes have begun in the Boxing Room of the ACC and are open to all students and faculty. Shoryn-Ryu is a conservative fighting style emphasizing discipline and self-defense. Classes meet Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7-8:30 
p.m. For more information, contact NVA or Mike Donovan at 283-1690. -The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will be giving lessons to all members or potential members at St. Joe's Beach today to Friday, September 18. Any ques­tions, call Carter at 1723. -The Observer 
, 
Stepan Court time requests are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If your club-Organization would like to reserve time for basketball, now is the time to ap­ply. Deadline for applications is September 25. -The Observer 
The Squash Club deadline for dues is tomorrow. Payment will ensure a spot on the ladder as well as other benefits. Remit payment to Philip Lau at 240 Fisher. -The Observer 
The ND golf team finished in the top three spots at the Notre Dame Open Tuesday. Doug Gior­gio, Pat Mohan, and Dick Connelly were the low scorers at the event.-The Observer 
The Sailing Club will be offering sailing lessons for all experience levels this fall at 3: 30 
p.m. Mondays, 4 p.m. Tuesdays and 4 p.m. Thursdays. Dues must be paid at or before your first lesson. -The Observer 
The Alpine Club will hold an organizational meeting Friday, September 18, at 5 p.m. at 19117 Cleveland Road. Rides will leave the main circle at 5 p.m. and dues should be paid. For more infor­mation, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

Cards win, maintain lead 
Hernandez hits milestone, leads Mets over Cubs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Keith Hernan­dez reached the 2,000-hit plateau with three hits and Sid Fernandez and two relievers combined to pitch a seven­hitter as the New York Mets beat the Chicago Cubs 12-4 Tuesday night. 
The Mets used a pair of five­run innings, the sixth and eighth, to bury the Cubs and remain 1 112 games behind the front-running St. Louis Car­dinals in the National League East. 
After Hernandez got his 2,000th hit with a single in the eighth, he was forced to leave the game when he injured him­self while rounding third. Barry Lyons had a three-run homer as the Mets pulled away with their five-run eighth. 
Fernandez, 11-8, who pitched five innings, won for the first time in five starts. 
Terry Leach and Roger McDowell finished up with McDowell giving up three runs in the ninth. 
Greg Maddux, 6-12, lost his fourth consecutive decision and third in as many starts against the Mets. 
White Sox 6, Twins 2 
CHICAGO -Rookie right­hander Jack McDowell, making his major league debut, got hitting support from Donnie Hill and Harold Baines to pitch the Chicago White to a 6-2 victory over the Minnesota Twins Tuesday night. 
McDowell became the first White Sox pitcher to win his major league debut since Joel Davis beat Milwaukee on Aug. 11, 1985. The 21-year-old McDowell, the team's top draft choice this past June, gave up just four hits in seven innings and did not walk a batter in out­dueling 42-year-old Joe Niekro. 
Pirates 5, Expos 1 
PITTSBURGH Mike 
Bielecki pitched 6 113 perfect in­
nings and finished with a three­
hitter as the Pittsburgh Pirates 
beat the Montreal Expos 5-1 
Tuesday night. Bielecki retired the first 19 batters he faced before Mitch Webster lined a double down the left field line. Bielecki, 2-2, did not walk a batter and struck out six, allowing the Expos their only run when third baseman Bobby Bonilla made a two-out throwing error in the ninth. 

Yankees 4, Brewers 3 
NEW YORK -Rickey Hen­derson's home run triggered a three-run fourth inning and left-bander Al Leiter won his first major league start Tues­day night as the New York Yankees edged the Milwaukee Brewers 4-3. 
Leiter, 1-0, allowed a first­inning run on Greg Brock's RBI single. But he held the Brewers to only four hits and four walks while striking out eight over the first six innings. ­
Henderson's 14th homer started a string of five straight hits off Brewers starter Juan Nieves, 12-7, in the fourth as the Yankees moved back into third place in the American League East, one-half game ahead of the Brewers. 
After Henderson tied the score, Willie Randolph and Don Mattingly singled to put run­ners at first and third before Dave Winfield and Gary Ward followed with RBI singles to knock Nieves out of the game. Willie Randolph's bases-loaded groundout in the seventh off Mark Knudson scored the even­tual winning run. 
~~--------------­

//""-...."\ ~-----,,.., 
{ -,1 q}~ "'-----'/ L ____~ ~,____/ 
Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm Washington Hall Tickets on sale at the Washington Hall box office 91.4-91.6 12-6 pm _$4.00 ND;SMC student "~ ~~~~ $8.00 public ~~ ~ ~ For information, ~':J~-c; ~~~~ ~~lb--c; ~ call 239-7757 c.,~~ ~ 

~_____;;,_~------:.' 

Reds 21, Braves 6 
ATLANTA -Dave Parker 
drove in a career-high eight 
runs with two singles, a double 
and two home runs and Terry 
McGriff hit a grand slam as the 
Cincinnati Reds unleashed a 
seven-homer, 19-hit attack in a 
21-6 victory over the Atlanta 
Braves Tuesday. 
Cincinnati's run total was the 
third highest in the National 
League this season. The New 
York Mets scored 23 against 
the Chicago Cubs on Aug. 16 
and the Cubs scored 22 against 
the Houston Astros on June 3. 
Tigers 9, Red Sox 8 
DETROIT -A three-run homer by Darrell Evans and a two-run shot by Kirk Gibson helped Detroit erase a 5-0 Bos­ton lead as the Tigers beat the Red Sox 9-8 Tuesday night and stayed in a first-place tie with the Toronto Blue Jays in the American League East. 
Boston's Todd Benzinger hit his first major-league grand slam and knocked in three more runs with two singles. 
/'-/ 
Blue Jays 6, Orioles 2 
TORONTO -Mike Flanagan, with last-inning help, defeated his former teammates and Lloyd Moseby hit a homer and a triple to drive in four runs Tuesday night as the Toronto Blue Jays handed the Bal­timore Orioles their eighth con­secutive loss 6-2. 

The most 
successful college 
graduates have a uniform appearance. 
Dress for success. Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and you could graduate with the 
privilege of wearing the proud gold bars of a second lieutenant as well as a cap and gown. Army ROTC is the college elective that gives 
you an opportunity to learn, and practice, management skills. Experience leadership styles and motivational techniques. And gain the self-confidence that can spell success in any career, civilian or military. 
Start that career with the advantages only Army ROTC can give you. Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED??? Call Captain Domingo 239-6264 
Cardinals 4, Phillies 3 
PHILADELPHIA -Vince Coleman hit an RBI double in a four-run second inning, and rookie pitcher Scott Terry con­tributed a clutch piece of relief Tuesday night as the St. Louis Cardinals held on for a 4-3 vic­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 



Wednesday, September 16, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Pearson overcomes trouble to join offensive line 
Ris• The TI Business Analyst,Solar tilr the interest,loans, real estate, bonJ, pricing anJ profit problems has all the right functions to you'll find throughout your business help you get down to business. courses. Is your present calculator good The BA-Solar speeds you through mough to make it in business? Prob­your assignments because the ably nor. That's why we made the Tl preprogrammed functions execute RA-Solar. The BA-Solar provides many business formulas at the push you with preprogrammeJ functions of a single key.  Good• AnJ not only Joes the BA-Solar buokstore today. After all, the last give you higher finance, it gives you thing you want to do in business is higher technology. The TI BA-Solar take any unnecessary risks. is the unly financial calculator with ( ~~~i Tl ~~Tr.IJ~m<trk 11l TL"xa... fn..,rrum('nf~ lncorromtN solar capabilities. Thanks to Tl's Anylite Solarn1technology, you can use the BA-Solar in any lowlight TEXAS.cond!tions. So get your own BA-Solar at your INSTRUMENTS  

By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
When Chicago Catholic League rivals St. Laurence and St. Rita faced each other in the 1985 Illinois football state semi­finals, it looked as though it might resemble a future Blue­Gold game. 
St. Rita had John Foley, Jason Cegielski and John Zaleski on its side. All signed with the Irish the following spring. So did St. Laurence stalwarts Paul Glonek, Tim Grunhard, Mike Harrison, Stan Smagala and Jeff Pearson. 
"Originally, I was going to go to Michigan, Tim was going to go to South Carolina, and Stan's scholarship was up in the air with the (Lou) Holtz­(Gerry) Faust coaching switch," said Pearson, "and just by chance we all decided in the last week before signing day. 
"I liked the national expo­sure Notre Dame gets on tele­vision, and Lou Holtz coming here was a big factor. Also, coming from the Chicago Cath­olic League, it's kind of a dream to come to Notre 
~~~~~.W~E~L~C~O~M~E~~B~A~C~K~S~T~U~D~E~N~T~S~! a~twuhwlihfuecalls.u·san
honor playing between them. I felt prepa.red mentally and HOLD THAT SUMMER TAN physically. Iwasreadytoplay
with these guys." 
CALL US At 277-7026 M_ __ TAN....HAWAIIAN 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road STUDENT RATES Mishawaka 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
BOOTHS BEDS 
For many of the signees, this dream did not come completely true. Cegielski and Zaleski were dismissed from the Uni­versity after a year for aca­demic reasons. From Pear-son's team, which was ranked among the top five in the nation before losing to St. Rita, Glonek is now at the University of Iowa, and Harrison is sitting out this year with appendicitis. 
But Pearson, a USA Today and Parade high school All-American and one of the more celebrated recruits, has over­come difficulties in his fresh­man year to find a starting spot at right guard this season. 
"Last year, I was still on the high school level," said the 6-2, 250-pound offensive guard._ You've got to do a lot of things on your own that you didn't do in high school. This year I'm doing more on my own, like watching the films and working with my position coach. I'm doing more of the extras and getting more mentally dis­ciplined." 
Pearson's chances of start­ing in his sophomore year did not appear so bright last spring, when the University sus ended him from spring practice for disciplinary reasons. But he used the time to do individual work that helped him prepare for fall pratices. 
Jeff Pearson 
"It was a disadvantage be­cause I missed a lot on the field, but I was able to concentrate more in the weight room and on my speed," Pearson said. "It gave me a chance to im­prove physically." 
Pearson then impressed coaches enough to earn the only available starting slot on the of­fensive line, the right guard po­sition vacated by Shawn Ref-fern. 
"I knew I had a lot of things against me because I missed spring," said Pearson, "but he (Holtz) told me the spot was open, so I had confidence in myself. I knew if I did the job, Coach Holtz would be fair. If I was good enough, he wouldn't keep me from playing just be­cause I missed spring." 
According to offensive line coach Tony Yelovich, Pear-son's work over the fall par­tially made up for his missing spring practice. 
"He was behind becuse of the time he missed, but with hard work he made up a lot," said Yelovich. "He worked hard over the summer, and he made up for some of the time." 
Pearson had his first starting 
assignment last Saturday at Michigan, as the lone starting underclassman on an offensive line that includes four fifth­year seniors. At right guard, he also was playing between ceo­ter Chuck Lanza and right tackle Byron Spruell, the 1987 Irish co-captains. 
"Coach Yelovich worked really hard with us, and we were really prepared for the Michigan defense," Pearson said. "Byron and Chuck helped 
Yelovich felt that playing be­tween Lanza and Spruell and working diligently during fall practice made Pearson's start­ing debut a success. 
"He's adapted very well, and there's good communication between the two men on both sides of him," Yelovich said. "You could see how hard he worked and how hard the rest of the linemen worked. You work hard on the practice field, so when it's game time it's fun time." 
Pearson was not always playing next to Lanza and Spruell on the line last Satur­day. High school teammate Grunhard spent much time in place of Lanza at center, playing next to Pearson just as he did at St. Laurence -when Grunhard was a guard and Pearson was a tackle. And last weekend's Irish defense in­cluded St. Laurence grad Smagala starting at right cor­nerback and Foley of St. Rita filling in at linebacker. 
It was not a situation that particularly surprised Pear­son. He is hoping that he, Grun­hard and Harrison can all make an impact on the Notre Dame offensive line in the next few years. It could be similar to the 1985 St. Laurence line that had Harrison, Grunhard and Pearson playing next to each other. 
"I know Tim's going to play a lot for us. He's definitely going to help us a lot this year,'' said Pearson. "If Harrison comes back from his injury, he's a good player, and he'll make a good contribution." 
It could make for one inter­esting high school reunion. 

---~------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1987 
ND soccer's LaVigne brothers 
Double trouble for opponents 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team has had its opponents seeing double this season. 
The twin brother combina­tion of freshmen Steve and Paul LaVigne has arrived to add its talents to the team. 
The St. Louis natives turned down offers from several pres­tigious soccer programs, in­cluding Indiana, Richmond, Wake Forest and Miami of Ohio. 
They opted instead to follow the path of family tradition that had led their father and uncle to Notre Dame. In addition, Irish captain John Guignon and assistant coach Joe Schmid both attended the LaVigne's high school. 
First glance and past history may lead a casual observer to assume that Paul and Steve are merely carbon copies of each other. But further investigation reveals that their personalities are not as identical as their looks. 
"They are very contrasting in personality and play," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace, "Paul is a real free-spirit that to help each other improve by pointing out mistakes and of­fering advice. 

"He'll always tell me what I am doing wrong during the game," said Paul of his bro­ther, "he can be honest because he doesn't have to worry about hurting my feelings." 
Steve echoed these senti­ments saying that "Paul is al­ways on my back when I am not hustling." 
Despite the years of working together, the two rarely com­bine forces. Each attacks the game from a different perspec­tive. 
"Steve's got a lot of com­posure," said Grace. "He's very hard to knock off the ball and is strong on offense and defense." 
Paul, however does not share the same level-headed concen­tration and rather casual demeanor of his brother and seems to prefer a style of reck­less abandon over finesse. 
"He gets on that field and he just turns from Dr. Jekyl to Mr. Hyde," said Grace, "he has little respect for his body or his opponent's body." 
It is this transition to the more physical aspects of col­lege soccer that has been their major focus for improvement, as well as the reason Paul will be forced to sit out of this Friday's game against Mic­higan State. 
Aggressive marking in Sun­day's victory over Indiana earned Paul a red card and a one game suspension for his ac­tions. 
Still, the adjustment to the level of college play has been a smooth one and both insist that the attitude of their team­mates and the warm welcome they received have been the keys. 
"The people on the team have been great," said Steve. "They've accepted us from the beginning and that really makes me want to work hard and be a determining factor in the the wins." 
And if Steve and Paul con­tinue at their current pace, they should prove to be what Grace considers his "double jackpot." 
"They have outstanding po­tential," said Grace. "We believe in attitude and charac­ter, not characters, and they are bright kids that are going to be a positive force.'' 
Irish wingback Paul LaVIgne (23) works for an advantage against the Hoosiers. 
plays a hard-nosed game while Steve is very quiet and laid­back and gets the job done with finesse." 
But different personalities have not stopped the two from pursuing similar goals which inevitably caused their paths to be intertwined. 
A trip to their dorm room shows the evidence of their soc­cer careers that have become permanently merged into one since the day they first stepped foot on the soccer field in kin­dergarten, 13 years ago. 
"We never worried about a rivalry," said Paul, "When one of us does something good it reflects on both of us, so we act more like a team than individ­uals." 
Limiting the competition to their opponents and con­centrating instead on them­selves as a team with a com­mon goal have allowed the two 
WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
f.ARLY AM OR EVENINGS 

Attention Club Presidents 
There will be a mandatory meeting on Thursday, September 17, 7:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Items to be discussed 1nclude how to access money 
from your student activity tee tJudqet. how to appeal 
your concession stand  allocation, mmchancJising guidelines, and a presentundrais1ng.  and tation  on  
There  will  be  a penalty 1f organization  your  club  or  

does not have a member 1n attendance. 

The ObserveliJeff Utz 
Freshman Steve LaVIgne (19) flies high In 'a crowd of Indiana oponents. Molly Mahoney features Steve and his brother Paul In her story at left. 





r----------------,

I CLUB 23 I 
I "GIANETTO IS BACK!" I 
I I
1 Wednesday Special: 1 1 14oz. Drafts -50 cents 1I Featuring our delicious Pizza, 1 
1
1 Sandwiches, Dinners, 
1
1 Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava.• I Beer and Wine served. 1 
I I
234-3541 
I Spm-11pm 1' II Monday-Saturday .. II Dine In or Carry Out I 1 

I .,; I
I 7 44 N. Notre Dame .;'. g 
23 
Large Groups & Clubs Welcome I 

... 



I----------------­
If they won't tell you about it, then you know it must be great. 
Purple Passion~ Out of the bathtub, into the con, and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself. 

Wednesday, September 16, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
12:10 p.m.-1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Energetic Gamma-Ray Astrophysics: The Cignus Project," by Prof. Gaurang B. Yodh, Univ. of Maryland, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
6:00p.m.-7:00p.m.: "Family Ties: Making the Break from Home" lecture sponsored by Campus Ministry, Holy Cross Hall-SMC, Room 11. 
7:00p.m. -10:00 p.m.·: University Ministry and Natural Family Planning Pro­gram present part one (of a two-part program) on "Natural Family Planning class for Engaged or Marrft:ld Couples" by Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m.: First meeting of Toastmasters International, 223 Hayes-Healy. 
7:30p.m.: Art Lecture, "It Happened in our LIFETIME," by Cornell Capa, executive director, International Center of Photography, and John Phillips, photographer, two former LIFE photographers will discuss the editorial practices of the magazine and share their personal insights about LIFE, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8:00p.m.: Department of Philosophy Perspectives on Rationality Series lec­ture, "Rationality, Part II," by Alvin Goldman, Library Lounge. 
8:00 p.m.: Cultural Arts Commission of Notre Dame Student Union Board presents the Oberlin Dance Collective-San Francisco, $8 general admission and $4 for NMMC students, Washington Hall. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Pita Pocket Turkey Cutlet 
Roast Turkey Breast BBQ Beef Sandwich 
French Bread Green Bean Casserole 
Ehene Broccoli Strata Deli Bar 


Don't drink
~ and
5tt ~.:~
D(IV[ 


drive 
A public service message from The Observer 


Comics 
ACROSS 1 Br. round of duties 
5 Jai alai basket 10 Movie dog 14 Baghdad's 
country 15 Obtain new weapons 16 Husband of Jezebel 
17 Bolivia's neighbor 18 Egyptian 
measure 19 Die shape 20 Contemptibly low 
22 Truffle e.g. 
24 NM art colony 
26 Medicine measure 27 Calvin Klein for one 
31 Open shoe 
35 Author Hunter 
36 Norse gods 
38 Lamb's mama '£. 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
09/16/87

39 Light tune All Rights Reserved 40 Rio de Ia ­41 Barter 3 Noxious weed 42 Heb. letter 4 Type of 43 Dissipate etching 44 Vehicle 5 Drawing item 45 Lacking vigor 6 Poet's word 47 Boa 7 Infamous 50 Inquires marquis 52 Expel 8 Stair part 53 Southern 9 Food for the farmers gods 57 Bacon portion 10 Ger. city 61 Siam visitor 11 Avoid 62 Contacted 12 Forbidden 64 Sch. subj. 13 Help 65 Urban area 21 Move sharply 66 Arab prince: 23 Autocrat var. 25 Sea creatures 67 Wings 27 Gr. letter 68 Gr. meeting 28 Fr. spa 09/16/87 place 29 Ointment 43 Hope 54 Step -(hurry) 69 Winter visitor 30 Lariat 46 Part of Asia 55 Hep 70 Part of n.b. 32 Indian official 48 Dawn goddess 56 Br. gun 33 Blue ribbon 49 Civil War 58 Nimbus DOWN 34 Gr. coins letters 59 Coup d' ­1 Tears 37 Pool girl 51 Leaf opening 60 Ostrich-like 2 City on the 40 Bundles 53 US Army bird Oka 41 Glaswegian members 63 Hanoi holiday 



Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
MtllNWH/1-£. X»>EWHER£ 
~ll5T Of Vt&M. 01/1? HEIW~ 
" 00 II 6/Ve t(}V€ , ~ TrJf<Y 1/IKE~ 11 flf(IJMIInC 
NO/JOLJY IINLJ LJI/N&eROII~ 1f/I?N / 
A Bl/17 NI/M£ .IIM.41 
WV88A WI/MII . 
&liVE ME II Xf<tf'r 
Beernuts Mark Williams 







Sports
page 16 Wednesday, September 16, 1987 
Irish rocket to 9th in Associated Press Poll 
Best ranking since 1984 
Associated Press up from fourth to fill the void left by UCLA. 
More fuel for the fire. Notre In the nationwide vote of Dame football fans are catch­sports writers and ing the Irish spirit after the broadcasters, Oklahoma team's 27-6 victory over Mic­received 54 of 60 first-place higan. The next step is to get votes and 1,193 points. Ne­caught up in poll fever. braska got the other six first­
place votes and 1,127 points. 
Lou Holtz' team jumped Auburn had 1,027 points. from 16th to 9th in this week's Associated Press college foot­Louisiana State, No.6 a week ball poll. ago, jumped over Ohio State 
Alabama also made a big and moved into fourth place move, jumping from 19th to with 926 points. Ohio State 11th with a 24-13 victory over remained at No. 5 with 908 defending national champion points. Penn State last Saturday. Rounding out the Top Ten 
Penn State, UCLA and Mic­were Miami, advancing one higan will not have much of a spot from seventh to sixth; No. problem with poll fever. 7 Florida State, up from eighth 
place; No.8 Clemson, up from 
Penn State fell from 11th to lOth; Notre Dame and No. 10 20th. At the same time, UCLA, Washington, which moved up a 43-33 loser to Nebraska, fell two spots from No. 12. from third to 13th, and Mic­higan dropped from ninth to The Second Ten, in order, 19th. after Alabama were Arkansas, 
The Alabama victory UCLA, Tennesse, Arizona stopped the nation's longest State, Pittsburgh, Michigan major college winning streak State, Georgia, Michigan and at 13 games. The 11-game Penn State. streaks of Oklahoma, Boston Last week, Penn State led the College and San Jose State are Second Ten, followed by Wash­now the nation's longest.. ington, Arkansas, Tennessee, 

Oklahoma and Nebraska Arizona State, Notre Dame, Freshman running back Tony Brooks carries the retained the top two spots in Michigan State, Pittsburgh, Al­ball against Michigan. Notre Dame's 27·6 victory the poll, while Auburn moved abama and Georgia. 
Freshman Wagner makes most of volleyball opportunity 
By KELLY TOWNSEND "My mom said I had to get Extra time pays off. When pected to under the circum­"But that is typical of fresh­Sports Writer involved in some kind of Mary Kay Waller went out with stances." men. She has the potential to sport," says Wagner. "She said an ankle injury, Coach Art Even though she has been become an excellent player. 
Last week in women's volley­that I only had to try out for Lambert had to make some ad­given an early chance to start, She just needs to concentrate ball action, freshman Colleen one week. I chose volleyball justments. After moving Wagner doesn't expect it to more on her mental effort." Wagner made her first col­and after one week, I didn't Zanette Bennett to the middle last. While Wagner may not start legiate start against Michigan. want to stop." spot, a space was open for an "Playing so soon is exciting, today when the Irish visit the In the opening game Wagner Wagner didn't even pause. outside hitter on the left side but the line-up changes so easi­Lady Ramblers of Loyola, Ill., played extremely well, making By her junior year she was var­and Wagner got her break. ly," says Wagner. "My goal is she has definitely shown the seven kills as an out-side hitter sity captain, and she guided her "I am pleased with the im­not to continue starting, but to ability and the desire needed to and leading the team in digs team to an undefeated season provements Colleen has made · keep improving and become a be a part of this strong Irish with seven and service aces her senior year. After high since she got here," says Coach steadier player. Right now I'm squad. with three. school play ended, she contin­Lambert. "I find her positive on a roller coaster; my playing Following today's game, the 
A San Diego native, Wagner ued playing in the U.S. Volley­attitude refreshing. Her per­is going up and down." women's volleyball team will didn't start playing volleyball ball Association, ·where her formance against Michigan Coach Lambert agrees with head to Richmond, Kentucky to until her freshman year and a team placed seventh in the 1985 was very good, and against this assessment. compete in the Eastern Ken­few encouraging words from Junior Olympics and fourth in Southern Cal she played as well "Right now Colleen is very tucky Invitational on Friday her mother. 1986. as a freshman could be ex-inconsistent," says Lambert, and Saturday. 


Irish football back in the high life 
"Hail to the victors ... " 

Last year at this time I hated the Michigan fight song. Today I still don't like it, but it does bring a smile to my face. 
Because this time, the Irish are the victors. After a 20-12 loss to Michigan in the first game of 1985 and last season's heartbreaking 24-23 defeat in Lou Holtz' first game as head coach, Saturday's 26-7 win was particularly sweet. 
Add to that the drama of a season opener, a bro­ken 18-game unbeaten streak for Wolverine head coach Bo Schembechler in home openers, a 1-0 record for the Irish, the convincing manner of the Notre Dame victory and the proximity of Ann Arbor for road-tripping, and this was an unforgettable weekend for Irish football fans. 
"Did you go?" seemed to be the most frequently asked question on Monday afternoon, and "yes" seemed to be the reply more often than not. Hundreds of Domers made the 4-hour drive north to the University of Michigan, either to be one of the 106,098 inside Michigan Stadium or one of the rowdies filling Ann Arbor bars. 
I was one of the rowdies. Well, not too rowdy (Mom and Dad get a subscription to the Observer). Exhibiting fiscal soundness and wanting to sit with ND fans rather than in a random seat probably next to Wolverine lovers, I chose to watch the game with my friends in a place called Dooley's instead of buying a scalped ticket. 
The atmosphere was nothing short of electric. Du Lac and its spirit were nowhere to be found, al-
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

though a ~opy of Friday's Irish Extra did appear out of the blue. 
Once the game began, it was evident that the crowd at Dooley's was overwhelmingly for Notre Dame. The regulars must have taken notice Friday night when Irish fans staged an impromptu pep rally on Maynard Street outside the bar, announcing that Notre Dame football was back in the high life again. 
That proclamation by Notre Dame fans was proven across town on Saturday afternoon by the Irish football team. Tests, SYRs and the pennant races were tossed aside, if only for a few hours, in favor of witnessing one of the best football wins in recent seasons. 
Flashback. 
Notre Dame cornerback Stan Smagala drills Wol­verine quarterback Demetrius "It was a lot easier in practice" Brown as he releases the ball, setting up an Irish interception and subsequent field goal. 
The offensive line gives Irish QB Terry Andrysiak enough time to sing the alma mater before he finds Tim Brown in the end zone for a quick 10-0 lead. The Dooley's crowd roared for the play and all three replays. 
I don't know how Tim Brown caught that football, but it sure would look good on a Heisman highlight film if he can overcome the double and triple­coverage that opposing teams will undoubtedly throw at him this season. 
After those two big plays, the Irish never looked back. Michigan's miscues and Notre Dame's poise and pressure added up to victory number one. 
Undefeated! 1-0! The last time that happened was 1983 when the Irish crushed Purdue, 52-6. Way back then (think hard), Blair Kiel was throwing to Mark 
see IRISH, page 10 






