.NOTRE DAME 
COLL~Ci:n.~ 

Possible hit record 
·I IAceENT: Shadowed graduate programs. I Near record warmth Tues­
~=========================================::: day with decreasing clouds.
High in the mid 70s. Partly
VIEWPOINT: Homosexual recognition 
. cloudyTuesdaynight.Lowin 
. the low 50s.
I I
~--------------------------------------------~----------------~ 
VOL. XXI, NO. 44 
Violations of SUB given to Senate 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Mike Yeager, student gov­ernment chief of staff, pre­sented the members of the Stu­dent Senate with a list of recognized constitutional viola­tions by the Student Union Board at the Senate meeting last night. 
Yeager asked the members of the Senate to consider the list of violations and to respond next week. 
The list of violations includes the claim that the Assistant Director of the Office of Stu­dent Activities is more active in certain screening procedures for topics discussed by the SUB steering committee than is allowed in the con­stituion. 
Additional violations cited in the list include the claim that the minutes taken at board meetings "are not truly repre­sentative and currently do not include a record of the votes." 
Another claim states that "SUB officers were not selec­ted in the way demanded by the constitution in that a vote was not actually taken." 
Yeager also charged that "current ticketed events run by the SUB movie commissioner have operated with no heed to the SUB board manager pro-
see SENATE, page 4 

Former hostage tells of ordeal 
By ERIC BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
The "deadly and provoca­tive" American intervention into the Lebanese civil war triggered retaliation against Americans in the form of kid­nappings and paramilitary at­tacks, Jerry Levin, journalist and former American hostage in Lebanon, told students and faculty Monday night. 
"A decades-long United States policy of diplomatic dialogue and negotiation in the Middle East had been abruptly dumped in favor of the use of military force as an aggressive tool of foreign policy," said Levin, who was abducted in March 1984 while serving as Cable News Network's Middle East Bureau Chief in Beirut and held for nearly a year. 
Levin started the lecture by showing a videotape obituary prepared by CNN after his cap­ture. 
"As Mark Twain once said under similar circumstances, 
DIR
08/15/88 Zl **** NEWS **** EXPEDITE **** SPECIAL COLLECTIONS HESBURGH LIBRARY 
4 ·"!=:!=:'
NOTRE DAME, IN b~~b 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Working on a solution 
A chemist stirs a solution in Saint Mary's newly renovated and expanded science hall. Rededicated on Oct. 10, the upgraded facility is part of the $25 million Excel fundraising campaign at SMC. 
the  story  of  my  death  was  hasn't been reporting on  this  
greatly exaggerated. I'm not  context.  
complaining," said Levin.  

What Levin resented most about his captivity was that it "ended an assignment cover­ing one of the most significant, one of the most inherently spec­


__J·~ .~
•.··j\.__ 
Jerry Levin 
tacular, one of the most consis­tently distorted stories of the decade." 
Levin said the public doesn't understand the "broad con­text" in which Americans are held hostage, and the media 
During his captivity, Levin's wife "tried to raise conscious­ness" about U.S. actions in the few media appearances she had, he said. 
Levin noted that while he was held hostage Secretary of State George Schultz was getting at­tention advocating "pre­emptive bombing" of Lebanon. 
The Reagan Administration with the aid of the media, Levin added, has turned the hostage situation into "a stereotypical hate and fear Arabs" cam­paign. 
The reversal in American policy has led to a increase both in American deaths since World War II and deaths in­flicted by American military forces, Levin said. 
Levin added that he experi­enced a "spiritual awakening" during his captivity. 

Source: Weinberger to resign soon 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger 
had  no  comment Monday  on  
broadcast  reports  that  he  
would  resign  soon  and  be  

replaced by National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci. 

NBC Nightly News, quoting top administration and con­gressional sources, said Weinberger was expected to announce, possibly this week, that he is resigning for personal reasons. Weinberger's wife, Jane, is known to be seriously ill, the network said. 
ABC news, quoting uniden­tified White House officials, said the White House did not dispute the broadcast report. 
CBS news reported that Car­lucci's assistant, Lt. Gen. Colin Powell, was expected to succeed Carlucci in the White House post. CBS said Carlucci emerged as a leading can­didate for the defense secre­tary post over former Sen. John Tower. 
Asked at a NATO planning meeting in Monterey, Calif., about the broadcast reports, Weinberger replied, "No com­ment." 
Weinberger has previously denied recent news reports that he planned to resign. 
White House officials refused to comment on the reports. Two sources, who spoke on condi­tion they not be identified, said they could not say anything at all on the subject. 
Weinberger is expected to resign this week and will be replaced by President Reagan's national security ad­viser, Frank Carlucci, sources said Monday night. 
The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Reagan approved the appoint­ment in recent days and it would be announced Thursday. 
Carlucci will be replaced by his deputy at the National Se­curity Council, Lt. Gen. Colin Powell, according to sources. 
Sources have said Weinberger's decision to step down after seven years came for personal reasons rather than any dissatisfaction with the prospective arms control treaty with the Soviet Union or any other policy disagreement with the president. 
Weinberger has been an un­yielding supporter of the Reagan administration's defense buildup, and in the early years of the administra­tion, presided over an enor­mous buildup in the nation's military. 
Carlucci, who once worked for Weinberger at the Pent­agon, has been national secur­ity adviser since December 1986. 
He was named to the post in the wake of the Iran-Contra af­fair, when National Security Adviser John Poindexter resigned under fire. 
Neither Weinberger nor Car­lucci would comment on their reported moves, and the White House did not dispute the reports. 
Weinberger is an old friend of Reagan from California, and his departure from the Cabinet is another in a series of changes as the president moves into his final year in office. 

Sunday collections aid former Grace RAs 
By KATIE KEARNEY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
When the collection bas­kets circulate through Grace Hall's Sunday Mass, resi­dents know the money they give will go directly to assist the work of two former Grace resident assistants volunteering overseas. 
Money from the weekly collections is being sent to 1987 graduates Joe Merchant and John Gibbon, who are volunteers in Africa and Guatemala. 
Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace, said his idea to send each Sunday's col­lection to the two graduates was approved by Grace's hall staff and has been quite successful. 
"The money collected at mass will be sent to the two young men, and they can use it as they see fit," Lardner said. "Some of the money may go to the cost of ship­ping books to Africa at the end of the year." 

Joe Merchant is currently teaching English at Musoli Girls' School in Kakanja, Kenya. He deferred his ac­ceptance to the University of Iowa medical school for a year to accept the teaching job, Lardner said. 
Merchant was very active in volunteer work at Notre Dame in addition to found­ing the newspaper Common Sense, said Lardner. 
Merchant spent the sum­mer of 1986 working on an agricultural project in a rural African village, and he decided to teach for a year 
see GRACE, page 4 


------~------------------------------~--------~--~ 
page 2 




In Brief 
A titanic iceberg was sighted near shipping lanes off southern Argentina, the nations's goverment reported Monday. Satellite photographs from the national weather service showed the 2,100-foot-wide iceberg about 310 miles northwest of the Falkland Islands and 1,360 miles south of Buenos Aires, the report said. The Argentine govern­ment news agency, Telam, said the iceberg did not pose a threat to shipping. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Michael Novak, theologian for the American Enterprise Institute and visiting Welch Professor of Amer­ican Studies, will give public lectures tonight and on the next two Tuesdays. Novak will give a lecture titled "Say That Again. A Commercial Republic?" at 7:30p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
The Glee Club will present its fall concert on Friday, Nov. 6, at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. Ticket vouchers are free and will be distributed today from 1 to 3 p.m. at the Washington Hall ticket office. Tickets are limited to two per person. -The Observer 
CAPPIDPMA Club presents Katherine Harbke of Electronic Data Services. Harbke will speak on what EDS can offer you in a career at 7 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy. 
The Observer 
Eating Awareness Training session I, entitled "What is problematic eating?" will be held from 6:30 to 
7:30 p.m. in Habig Lounge, 222 Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. The speaker will be Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. 
-The Observer 
Palesa Makhele from Soweto, South Africa will speak on the struggle for liberation ih South Africa at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. This lecture is sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network. -The Observer 
An acoustic concert sponsored by the Overseas Development Network will be in Theodore's at 9 p.m., featuring Chesire and Sean and the Sun Rings. -The Ob­server 
Fisher Hall is sponsoring a bible study every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Fisher Hall chapel. The study group is led by Father AI D'alonzo. -The Observer 
Fernando Coronil, Faculty Fellow of the Kellogg Institute will be discussing "The Magical State: Oil Money and the Appearance of Democracy in Venezuela." The brown-bag seminar will be held at noon in 131 Decio. -The Observer 
World Hunger Coalition will have a meeting at 7 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns library. Plans for Oxfam's Fast and Thanksgiving Food Baskets will be dis­cussed. -The Observer 
Hispanic-American Organization will meet at 5:30p.m. in the Breen-Philips Puzzle Room. Please show up at 5 p.m. for dinner. -The Observer 
The University Counseling Center is presenting a lecture I discussion on the causes and process of depres­sive thinking. It will be presented by Pat Utz, director of the Counseling Center, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Applications for fashion show tryouts for the Black Cultural Arts Festival are to be submitted no later than Friday, November 13. Model tryouts will be held on Dec. 2 and 5. Emcee tryouts will be Dec. 6. To receive an ap­plication, contact Kim Stevenson at 4072. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor . . . . . . . . Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner Deoign Auistant .................. Jodi Topel Accent Copy Editor ........ Lisa Young TJipe•ettero .............. Becky Gunderman Accent Layout........ .. Carolyn Rey N ewa Editor...... .. Regis Coocia Typists... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. Jenn Conlon CopJI Editor ...................... Matt Crowley NO Day Editor .. .. ... David Lee Sport• Cop11 Editor ........ Steve Megargee SMC Day Editor .. Karin Rader Viewpoint CopJI Editor .... Chris Donnelly Photographer .................. Trey Reymond 
111e 011.rtw (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday thcOUJh Friday cxcepc durilll exam aad vacation periods. ne ~... is published by tbe students of tbe Uaivenity ofNoue Dame &ad Saint Mary's CoiJcae. Subscriptions may be purc:bu­ed f« S40 per yeu (S2S per -tcr)by wrililll TM Olllll"ftr, P .0. Bm Q, NOlre Dame, ludiaaa 46556. 
ne Oll.rfw is • mcmber of ne ~... ..__ All reproduc:tion riabts arc raened. 
Tuesday, November 3, 1987
The Observer 

Maybe living at home isn't so good after all 
"You can't come home again," my 16-year­
old sister said to me over break, inadvertantly 
par.aphrasing the words of Thomas Wolfe. 
I· had just announced that I was thinking of living at home for a while after graduation. And that didn't sit too well with my little sister. 
Anne-Marie, you see, had become accus­tomed to my not being home. 
No more Big Brother telling her the guy she's dating is a bum. No one else wanting to use the telephone. And no older brother, who, if he doesn't get his way, says, "All right, but I'm going to ask out your best friend from school." 
"You just can't move back in," Anne-Marie pleaded. "You'll ruin my senior year." But she didn't understand. I love living at home. 
I don't have to pay rent. My electricity, heating and air-conditioning bills are paid. Food is (usually) in the refrigerator, and it's free. The washing machine doesn't need quar­ters. And there's a remote-control TV with cable, a VCR, and a comfortable couch. 
"I would be a nut not to come back," I told my little sister. "This place is paradise." 
But as the week progressed, I realized that perhaps it wasn't such a good idea for me to return home after graduation. Things have changed since I left a little more than three years ago. 
It's not that my house is any different. Heck, my room hasn't changed in at least 10 years. It's still a throwback to the mid-1970s. 
The walls are adorned with posters of Cheryl Ladd, Loni Anderson and Bo Derek. Minature blimps and model airplanes hang from the ceiling. And in a cabinet sit eight-track tapes, among them the sound tracks from "Saturday Night Fever" and "Grease." 
No, my house hasn't changed since I left. But I have. I've gotten used to living on my own, and I kind of like it. 
I can leave dirty underwear on the floor if I want. I can stay out until 4 a.m. with no ques­tions asked. I can crank up "You've Lost That Loving Feeling" when it comes on the radio. And I can watch a special edition of "Monday Night Football" rather than a repeat of "Mur­der, She Wrote." 
All that freedom would be gone if I returned home. 
Mark 1!.11\
Pankowski 
~-''·;
Managing Editor 
.4"--' .... 

And so would my hopes for a social life. After all, what would happen if I finally found a wo­man who wanted to go to my place? "Uhhhh, we can't," I'd have to say. "My parents are home." 
I'd be a social reject. I really would have to take out my sister's high-school friends. 
And how would my parents feel if I moved home? They'd have sunk more than $40,000 to get me out of the house only to have me return­-to freeload off them some more. 
"Dear Ann Landers," they would write. "Our son is 22 years old, and he still lives at home. How can we get rid of him?" 
"Dear Sick of Our Son," she would reply. "Your kid needs professional help. Something is definitely wrong with him." 
Geeeez. All that just to live at home after graduation? I think I'll get an apartment. Thomas Wolfe and my little sister are right. You really can't go home again. 

AMERICAN 
CANCER
~• SOCIETY~ 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper• 

H: We salute you, you party animal!! HAPPY 22nd 
Your roommates 



LIP SYNC CONTEST 
North vs South Quad Saturday, November 7 Stepan Center 9:00pm 
PRIZES ($$$)
interested acts should contact Maura at 239-7757 or 283-2745 by THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Sponsored by SUB. 
Tuesday, November 3, 1987 The Observer 
page 3 


The Observer I Trey Raymond Skendvel, Mike Rhattigan, and Brett Hunt deal with Lady Luck regularly. 
Gorbachev answers Soviet critics of reform 
Associated Press Stalin committed "enormous and unforgivable" crimes and announced resumption of a 
MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbac-campaign to rehabilitate the hev accused his Kremlin critics dictator's victims. He also Monday of being either too praised the communist state's timid or too impatient about the second leader, however, for pace of reform, and advised collectivizing agriculture and "revolutionary self-restraint" industrializing the country. in the drive to modernize the Gorbachev's nationally Soviet Union. televised speech, which lasted 
The Soviet leader said Josef 2 hours 41 minutes, was part of 
Michael 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
hosting a reception on November 4 at the Center for 
Continuing Education (CCE-lower level) from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Mike warmly extends an invitation to all-students and 
faculty members who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in Corporate Controllers at Chase. 
0 CHASE 
the 70th anniversary obser­vance of the 1917 revolution that brought the communists to power. 
It was his first address since the disclosure last week of a top-level fight over the pace of "perestroika,". Gorbachev's program aimed at improving the quality of life by streamlin­ing bureaucracy, encouraging individual initiative and boost-
New selling policy given to SMC Board 
By MIMI TUOHY Staff Reporter 
A new Saint Mary's mer­chandising policy, governing the sale of potentially offensive items, was distributed Monday night to the Programming board by Smith Hashagen, vice-president of student af­fairs. 
The policy states that "sexist, alcohol-, or drug­related designs will not be al­lowed" to be sold by any stu­dent group. It goes on to say that "efforts should be made to avoid the use of copyrighted characters and slogans, and permission from the Office of Student Activities must be granted before any item may be sold." 
"Basically, this is just a fundraising policy being writ­ten down," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, assistant director of student activities. 
Hashagen stressed that the policy is not intended to inhibit 
student profits. 
"We want the different clubs 
and classes to raise money," 
Hashagen said. 
"This policy is simply to give 
outline of what is and is not ac­
ceptable to sell." 
In other business, Freshman 
Advisor Julie Wagner an­
nounced the plans for the up­
coming Regina Pool Party on 
Wednesday, Nov. 4, from 9-11 
p.m. A belly flop contest, a "goofiest jump" contest and a dog paddle contest are all in­cluded. All are welcome to at­tend. 
Halane Young, commis­sioner of the student activities board, said that "Shawn and the Sun Kings" will perform at the next Club Tuesday, Nov.10, in Haggar College Center. The SAB is also sponsoring the movie "Hannah and Her Sisters" on Nov. 20 and 21 in Carroll Auditorium. 

ing production of consumer goods. 
In a mention of his visit to Washington next month for his third summit with President Reagan, Gorbachev pledged to seek a "palpable breakthrough" leading to reductions in long-range nu­clear weapons and a ban on weapons in space. 
Signing a treaty to ban 
NOTRE DAME WELCOMES 
P. Esposito, Jr. 
intermediate-range nuclear missiles "is very important in itself," he said in his first public comment on the matter since the announcement Friday that he would meet Reagan on Dec. 7 and plan for a return visit by the president. 
Agreement to scrap the weapons, he said, "was largely settled back in Reykjavik." 
-


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, November 3, 1987 
Indiana implements new driving licenses 

The debate team of Rob Re, Geoff Col.lltney, and of school athletics to the missions of colleges. Their Mike O'Brien dealt with the issue of the contribution debate was one of a series held by Grace Hall. 
Senate 

~-Queen's Castle
continued from page 1 
S4SJJ Ternee Lae, Across from Martin's. posed and Senate approved 
IN ROYAL PLAZA 23 
ticket distribution policy." Other points included 
TANNING BED SPECIAL
charges regarding mis-
for ND or Saint Mary's students
management and inefficiency in SUB run businesses. 
Unlimited tanning, one month 
In other news, the Senate unanimously approved the agenda of issues to be pre­sented to the Board of Trustees 

at time of purchase 
next week. The effectiveness of 
policy and integration regard-
Freshman Orientation and the .~::::!::~~====~========~
ing transfer students will be the reports given at that meeting. ~ 
Senior class president Diane Fitzgibbon announced a series ~ of open seminars on alcohol (: will be held in various dorms beginning Sunday. 
The seminars will be run by members of an on-campus al­cohol task force and encourage students to voice their opinions on alcohol. Fitzgibbon said the task force is compiling infor­mation for a report which will lllillll••iiillllliiilliiillliiilllill•iiiiilllllliiiiliiiiiiil•••• 

be given to University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. 
Grace 
continued from page 1 
before resuming his education. 
In correspondence with Lardner, Merchant has said the school where he teaches is in great need of supplies and books. 
Lardner said in addition to the collection money, English texts and anthologies will prob­ably be collected and sent to the Mrican school at the end of the year. 
John Gibbon, who graduated from Notre Dame with degrees in philosophy and electrical en­gineering, is a member of the
• Peal·t· (.orp~o~.CampuiO lomp.ct
P eace Corps 1n Guatemala, "··~--' •••,.,..........,....... 
Lardner said. (Oain 1-'in.~~=~~~f.~~~~i~: !:~r;:~f,~;~. '•lion 
Obto~.m ~iA:nificant t•rojt"\:1 t:~p.:rit·nn· 11
Lardner Sal"d there have been ··---· l<.dp l'•·an· <:o..,... \·olun"~" H•lp <h• "'"P •· of <h• If•~• Coun<•• ·----..
t-:ducalt' Otht-01 .\bout lht· Third World 
three collections so far, and he sophomore or junior Notre Dame student plans to continue them for the will be nominated for a one semester or rest of the year. summer internship. Applications are 
available at The Center for Social Concerns,
BUY 
International Peace Institute or Career OBSERVER and Placement Office. 
CLASSIFIEDS Application Deadline: November 13 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana began issuing color-coded drivers licenses to motorists under 21 Monday in an effort to curb drunken driving by un­derage drinkers, state officials said. 
The background on the pho­tograph of an under-21 driver is red on the new license, com­pared with the blue back­ground on other licenses. Both licenses are different in design from past licenses. 
The first red-background license was issued to Marilyn Ryan, president of the Students Against Drunken Driving chap­ter at Fort Wayne's Dwenger High School. 
The Dwenger SADD chapter suggested the change last year as a way to make it more dif­ficult for underage drinkers to purchase alcohol. Gov. Robert Orr issued an executive order in January calling for the color­coded licenses. 
Charles Layton, commis­sioner of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, said the new licenses are also covered by a new hard laminated pocket with "In­diana" lightly imprinted 34 times on it. 
The face of the license and the imprint would be damaged if someone tried to tamper with a license, Layton said. 
The new licenses will be issued for people renewing their driving privileges or get­ting first-time licenses, Layton said. Already licensed drivers under 21 will not have to get the new licenses until tlleir cur­rent one expires. 



Accent
Tuesday, November 3, 1987 page 5 


Graduate students 
TOM MCDONALD  basketball game."  
accent writer  "You forgot to mention that  
Ice cream In the Student Center  

0 
ver the years, Notre Dame has developed a national reputation for Its strong under­graduate program. Admission Is highly cpmpetltlve, and the students who enter Notre Dame are very bright and boast excel­lent high school backgrounds. 
For the undergraduate, the campus of Notre Dame Is home. Mom's home-cooked meals are replaced by the sterile lnstltutionallty of all-you­can-eat cafeteria veal patties. For some, plush bedrooms In suburban homes are ex­changed for the harsh reality of life In a residence hall study lounge. Yet students adjust quickly. Friendships form quickly, dates are secured and university sponsored activities and athletic events are fre­quent. 
Participation In the university bar life Is the required norm. Undergraduate students can dance to the strains of the Thrashing Doves' "Beautiful Imbalance" at Theodore's, the non-alcoholic dance venue In the LaFortune Student Center or If a fake ID can be obtained, to New Order's "Age of Con­sent" at Senior Bar. 
Is Notre Dame a self­contained utopia for under­graduates? Bob and Lisa, his girlfriend of two weeks, agree. "everything I need Is right here," says Bob. "The food Is edible, and I can buy books, supplies, records and anything else I need right here on campus. Golf Is three bucks, and I can always find a pick-up 
Calvin and Hobbes 
IT'S R£AU.'i w..RD. LOOK 1\T All 1\-\t Lim.£ LINES<::.« ~IS B\ll. 
Is cheap," chimes In Lisa, as 
their shared cup of crummy 
cookie Ice cream begins to 
melt. 
For many undergraduates, the only link to the outside world Is the obligatory call to Mom In Peoria, Illinois every Sunday night after dinner or the annual trip to the Dunes. Some students know that ven­turing off campus may result In an event worthy of Inclusion In the next Schwarzenegger film, as five business students resid­Ing on campus this summer found out when robbed at gun­point outside of a local tavern. 
Hey, but what about the graduate students? How do they tlt In at Notre Dame, where do they live and where do they drink? 
Currently, there are about 
2000 graduate students at 
Notre Dame out of a total stu­
dent population of approxi­
mately 9700. Graduate pro­
grams are offered In law, 
business, engineering and 
most science and liberal arts disciplines. The dispersion of demographics In age, nationality and background Is more pronounced than In the undergraduate program. 
Most graduate students live off campus In rented apart­ments or houses. Some accom­modations are available for graduate students at residence halls or the all-female town­houses at the O'Hara-Orace complex. Many graduate stu­dents own cars and drive dally to campus. 
Graduate students hold de­
partment or program parties 
with hired DJ's. They also have 
been spotted at such venerable 
watering holes as the Lineback­
er, Bridget McGuire's, The 
Commons and Chi Chi's. Stu­
dents desiring to get away 
from discussions with their col­
leagues on tort law, Integer 
programming or thespian unity 
In Shakespeare's "The 
Tempest" can be found at 
Senor Kelly's, Stude's, Tivoli's 
or Macri's Dell. 
Despite any apparent similarities that may exist be­tween undergraduate and graduate students, many graduate students at Notre Dame feel their programs are overshadowed by the reputa­tion of and administration's attention to the undergraduate program. 
Many graduate students com­plain there Is a lack of facilities to accommodate their needs. Sometimes students fight like pit bulls to get on a computer terminal, and "quiet" library space can often be at a premium. Some graduate stu­dents would rather have a nerve exposed by their dentist than study for a final next to four giggling. gum-cracking undergraduates In the library. 
"The only reason that Notre Dame has graduate programs Is to fulfill the requirements of being a university," mused one graduate student. 
Jim Reilly, 29, a graduate student In the MBA program said, "This place Is definitely designed for the undergradua­tes, In terms of the facilities, the events, and generally, the atmosphere of the whole campus. But I knew that when I came here. The administra­tion does appear to show some signs of placing more empha­sis on the graduate programs In the future." 
To some degree, the Notre Dame administration ack­nowledges the Inherent over­shadowing between the pro­grams. "That Is absolutely true," said VIce President of Advanced Studies Dr. Robert Gordon, agreeing that the graduate programs are over­shadowed by the undergradu­ate program. "Only 20% of the students at Notre Dame are In graduate studies, so from a sheer numbers standpoint alone, they are overshadowed." 
Gordon added that. "Notre Dame started out as an under­graduate Institution, and It has only been since around 1965 that the graduate programs have established a strong pres­ence on campus." 
Gordon feels that the Qraduate prOQrams are 
Bill Watterson 
progressively evolving and 
says, "even though advanced 
studies are a second child at 
Notre Dame, many programs 
are like emerging nations and 
are In the building process." 
Professor Thomas Mueller, director of engineering Re­search and Graduate Studies In the engineering Department. does not feel, however, that engineering graduate programs are overshadowed at Notre Dame. "Graduate engineering students live a different life than the undergraduates," says Mueller, "They take fewer courses and spend a lot of time engaged In research." 
Mueller says that even though the graduate engineer­Ing program Is not as well recognized as the undergradu­ate program, some specific disciplines like chemical engi­neering have excellent reputa­tions In the academic commu­nity. Mueller feels that the administration's responsiveness to the needs of the graduate engineering program has been adequate and has heard no complaints from students per­taining to the overshadowing Issue. 
With an excellent reputation and faculty and Impressive facilities, the Law School does not appear to suffer from over­shadowing. "I feel that the ad­ministration has done an excel­lent job to provide the law students with the facilities and tools for a tlrst-class experience at Notre Dame," said one law student. 
A good litmus test to evalu­ate the overshadowing Issue Is the career placement process for graduate students. The Notre Dame career and Place-
The Accent Department 
is looking for enthusiastic people with ex­perience in features writing or editing for the following positions: 
Assistant Features Editor 
• Features Copy Editor 
Applications are due Friday, Nov. 6 by 3 
p.m. Contact Mike Naughton at 239-74 71 for more information. 
------------------'­
ment Services appears to be 
doing an admirable job of as­
sisting graduate students In 
their career search efforts. 
Counselors are helpful and ac­
cessible, and current job 
search materials are available 
In the Placement Library. 
Paul Reynolds, Associate Director of career and Place­ment Services, says significant corporate recruiting activity Is currently In progress for graduate business and law stu­dents. The Law School has a separate placement activity which has been very successful In placing law students. Very few companies, however, visit Notre Dame to recruit graduate students In the humanities fields, perhaps reflecting the fact that many of these stu­dents secure jobs In the aca· demic community following graduation. 
Reynolds says that the suc­cess companies have had In hiring Notre Dame undergradu­ates has often resulted In Inter­est In the graduate students, particularly In the business arena. Showing commitment to broaden the reach of Notre Dame Placement activities, Reynoids adds, "We have just hired a new associate director to actively market both under­graduate and graduate stu­dents to prospective employers." 
In general, graduate students appear to have mixed reviews regarding the overshadowing Issue. Depending on the pro­gram In which they are en­rolled and their level of campus Involvement. some students are quite concerned, while others feel pleased with their experience at Notre Dame. 
Viewpoi

Tuesday, November 3, 1987 
Allow all groups_ to meet at ND 
Notre Dame's role as a Catholic university is a difficult one. 
It has two commitments. One to to the Church's teachings; the other to education through an active exploration of all facets of our life, including these teachings. At times they seem to conflict. 
An immediate example of this conflict is the relationship of homosexuals to the Catholic Church and to our University. 
Whether this community likes it or not, some of its mem­bers are homosexual. And, whether such a lifestyle is con­sidered morally acceptable or not, the fact that these people are part of the community and are suffering is unavoidable. This suffering may be caused by the hatred of others for homosexuals. And it may be caused by the homosexuals' own inability to openly define their sexuality because they live in a place where such discussion is discouraged. 
Notre Dame's responsibility as a Catholic community is to determine how it may best help these people. 
According to the open speaker policy in du Lac, the ad­ministration currently ensures the right of student organi­zations to "examine and to discuss all questions of interest to them, and to express opinions publicly and privately." 
The administration, however, does not extend this freedom to student organizations that are not "consistent with the University's mission, whether it be spiritual, moral, intel­lectual, cultural, social, athletic, or recreational." 
Apparently, the administration believes it cannot acknowl­edge· a homosexual student organization because such recognition would not be consistent with the University's mission. 
Unfortunately, we cannot judge the validity of the admin­istration's position because we lack the necessary informa­tion. The administration has failed to provide an explanation of its policy or its rationale in making these decisions. 
Based upon the information available, then, we feel the administration should modify its policy to allow for the formation of student organizations --regardless of whether they are in keeping with every facet of the University's mis­sion. 
The first step in this process should be the recognition of the group, Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. 
Such recognition need not imply that the administration condones or accepts a homosexual lifestyle; it merely allows for the open exploration of a proper Catholic response to such a life. 
Recognition of student groups such as GLNDSMC is an essential element in creating the academic freedom neces­sary for each student to grow both in an understanding of the Church's teachings and in their respect for others. 
And that is essential to the University's mission. 
-The Observer 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing . number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­point Department, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of the adminostration of e1ther 1nst1tution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the op;nion of the majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression o1 varying opinions on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 
Gay groups should be rec 

In order to have a fruitful discus­sion without too much ambiguity, we must begin by getting some defini­tions straight in regards to homosexuality. 
guest column 
"Homosexuals" are those men and women who through no choice of their own, but by reason of genet­ics or early influence fall in love (primarily) with people of their own gender. 
"Heterosexuals" are those men and women who through no choice of their own, but by reason of genet­ics or early influence fall in love (primarily) with people of the oppo­site gender. 
"Gays" are those people with a strong, same-sex orientation who learn to accept the fact that they easily and habitually fall in love with people of the same gender. 
"Bi-sexuals" are people with a strong but ambivalent sexual orien­tation that allows them to fall in love with people of both the same and opposite gender. 
The more we consider these defi­nitions and undertake a genuine dialogue with the cross-section of the people they represent, the more we are drawn to shade each one of these definitions so that, in the end, we find it wise to emphasize the polymorphous character of sexuality and to embrace its multi­formity without discrimination. That means, of course, that as we become more tolerant and accept­ing, we learn more readily and easily from one another about that deep and fascinating mystery in our lives that we call our sexuality. We all have a lot to learn from one an­other and the cross-fertilization that results from shared sexual identities will make us more loving and con­siderate sexual partners and lovers. 
Let us now turn to gay and lesbian people, in particular, so that we can set forth the reasons why it would be helpful to have our organization openly recognized on these cam­puses. 
Despite immense personal and so­cial disapproval, some homosexual men and women pursue their own sense of identity until they can shuck off the self-hatred they have ab­sorbed from their surroundings and -more or less cheerfully -accept who they are. Such "gay" people usually then "come out" to some of their friends or relatives so that they will no longer have to live a lie or par­ticipate any longer in the standard conspiracy of silence. The sense of personal liberation realized by such steps is so rewarding that gays then want to share their hard-won freedom with other homosexuals, in the first place, and then with the rest of their friends and associates. Gay people know just how costly it is to one's personhood to live "in the closet." However understandable secrecy and concealment may be in the face of societal hostility, "com­ing out" is a necessity of life. Those who cannot or will not achieve that kind of basic freedom risk per­manent damage to their own sense of self-worth and, inevitably, engage in forms of destructive behavior that will harm them immensely. Al­coholism is only one such form of self-abuse. 
Gay people realize that the Con­spiracy of Silence is something very real, almost all-pervasive and ter­ribly destructive. It is a conspiracy not to discuss sexuality openly and honestly and, above all, to maintain the pretence that gays and lesbians do not exist -at least not here! The Conspiracy of Silence is a calculated pretence, a form of willful evasion that tries very hard to ignore the existence of homosexuals in our community or to claim that, if they do exist here, they are unnatural, weird, perverted, sick and! or sinful. The result is that most non-gay people -often through no fault of their own -fear and despise and avoid both gay persons and any genuine knowledge about homosexuality. This pretence has to be constantly bolstered by looking the other way, by not speaking of the obvious, by a complicated set of avoidance techniques and by a stu­dent vocabulary that insures that everyone knows that !We are not fag&queershomos. 
The panic of the straight world in the face of gay people is what we call homophobia: an irrational fear of gay people, possibly rooted in an insecure sexual identity of one's own. Homophobia can be mild or vi­cious, but it accomplishes two pur­poses for those who despise gays and lesbians. It helps them repress and almost annihilate the fact that they too -sometimes often, sometimes only occasionally -are drawn to members of their own sex; secondly, it enables the insecure to maintain one last bastion of the bigot. Poor bigots, they can no longer work out their frustrations on Jews, Blacks, Hispanics -or even women! -but op­probrious epithets are still O.K. for gays. 
Sadly, it is still respectable at N.D. to hate gay people and to refuse to allow them their normal rights as members of our community. Ad­ministratively, we are treated as pariahs, refused recognition and harassed in various ways. The result is twofold. Most of the some one thousand homosexuals on the two campuses are denied the opportu­nity to discover who they are and even those who come out have to do so quietly, obscurely and in constant fear of reprisals. 
Perhaps the easiest way for het­erosexual students to grasp the kind of oppression that grips homosexual students is to do the following exer­cises in understanding: 
First, listen for one week to the fag jokes and jibes that pervade this atmosphere; 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief... .Kevin Becker Managmg Editor... . Mark Pankowski News Edi!or .. . . . . . . . . ..................... Chris Bednarski News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor... . . . . Chris Murphy Sports Editor... . . . . . Denn1s Corrigan Accent Editor.... M1chael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor.... Sandy Cenmele Photo Editor...... J1m Carroll 
Doonesbury 
Operations Board 
Business Manager . . . . . . . . .. Brian Murray Advertising Design Manager ... ..... David Culligan Advertising Manager . ............. Melinda Chapleau Production Manager.. ............... Melissa Wamke Projects Manager . ...................... Mark McLaughlin Systems Manager . . . ................. Shawn Sexton Controller... . .... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ................ Laura Stanton 

Founded November 3, 1988 

toint 
recognized 
P.O. Box Q 
page 6 -7 

1\ve are not 
ght world in is what we ~ational fear rooted in an lty of one's 1e mild or vi­ties two pur­lise gays and repress and 1ct that they sometimes e drawn to ~x; secondly, to maintain bigot. Poor ~er work out ews, Blacks, 1en! -but op­;till O.K. for 
table at N.D. to refuse to .al rights as munity. Ad­treated as gnition and 
s. The result e some one 
on the two the opportu­!ley are and 1t have to do din constant 
Nay for het­·asp the kind homosexual lowing exer­
week to the 
pervade this 
1oonesbury 

Second, examine our own personal 
attitudes towards, and uneasiness 
about, sexual diversity; 
Third, try to visualize what it is like for gay students not to be able to even talk about their friends and lovers much less be openly affec­tionate with them or share them in and with a sympathetic community; 
Fourth, try to realize what it means to us when the N.D. Admin­istration formally refuses to recog­nize G.L.N.D...S.M.C. as a student or­ganization and hampers our every effort to overcome homophobia in ourselves and others. 
I would suggest that G.L.N.D...S.M.C. should be recog­nized for the following reasons: 
First, it is a legitimate, long­standing student organization mini­stering to the special needs of the largest and most discriminated against minority group on campus; 
Second, with recognition it could effectively counteract the prevailing homophobia through lectures, dis­cussions and debates; 
Third, as an openly gay organiza­tion it could effectively encourage repressed and closeted homosexuals to "come out" in an accepting and safe atmosphere; 
Fourth, in a climate of greater openness and diversity, we could contribute to shaping healthier, hap­pier sexual attitudes to the end that honest and committed relationships would flourish here to the benefit of us all. 
William G. Storey is a professor emeritus of theology. 
Senate explains valuable survey 
Dear Editor: 

Approximately 2000 randomly se­lected undergraduates will be re­ceiving the first annual survey of the Student Body of Notre Dame in the mail this week. The purpose of the survey is to better determine the backgrounds, desires, attitudes, and opinions of the undergraduate stu­dent body. The annual nature of the survey will allow us to observe the trends of Notre Dame students as they progress from freshmen to seniors, as well as trends from the present student body to future stu­dent bodies. The survey is divided into three sections: Demographics, Campus Issues, and Social Issues. The Demographics section will pro­vide general information about the respondent that will enable us to bet­ter identify the typical Notre Dame student and make it possible to cor­relate responses from different areas of the survey. For example, we will be able to determine the cor­relation between being an Arts and Letters student (a Demographics question) and having a preference for living in a co-ed dorm (a Campus Issues question). 
The Campus Issues section will provide data on specific areas that need to be addressed in the future as well as demonstrate support or opposition to certain issues of the day. If Student Government can pro­vide concrete evidence of student support on a particular issue, then its efforts to persuade the students desire, it is necessary that concrete statistics, such as this survey will provide, be available to indicate stu­dent support. 
The Social Issues section will il­lustrate the attitudes of Notre Dame students on various social, ethical, and moral issues. We acknowledge that some of these questions are per­sonal in nature, but nevertheless, your response to them is vital to the survey's success. We assure you that anonymity and confidentiality will be strictly maintained and note, ad­ditionally, that the Administration survey responses will be received, recorded, and then destroyed by the prefessionals in the Social Science Training and Research Lab. 
The survey will take less than ten minutes to complete, so we ask that those students who receive a survey take the time to respond. The answer sheet for the survey should be returned via campus mail (or U.S. mail if off-campus) by Friday, No­vember 13. We again insure com­plete confidentiality and individual anonymity. The results of the survey will be released after Thanksgiving and be available in the Student Gov­ernment Offices, 2nd floor of LaFor­tune. We thank the recipients for their time and consideration in hel­ping to make the survey a success. 
Student Senators: 
Steve Viz 
Mike Carrigan 
Sean Hoffman 
Brian Holst 
Common Sense lacks just that 
Dear Editor: 
A grim specter haunts our fair 
campus. So we are told in a recent 
letter addressed to the "inhabitants 
of Notre Dame" from our fellow in­
mates, Professors Walshe and 
Frese. We, the benighted, are to be 
granted sweet light, indeed relief 
from oppression, by subscribing to 
"Common Sense," the latest venture 
in attitudinizing moral arrogance 
launched by our lunatic left. Today 
Bork, tomorrow Rome! 
Our saviors inform us that "Com­
mon Sense" came "at a time when 
a climate of censorship had begun 
to establish itself on our campus." 
By Zeus and Apollo -Gulag du Lac! Smell the acrid vapors of toasted martyrs! Weekends of auto de fe -at the Grotto, no less! Soon to be renamed the Griddle? In­quisitors abound. A rack is to be in­stalled in Alumni-Dillon Court! A Kristalnacht of book burning in the stead of Bookstore Basketball. Nes­sun dorme -even in Social Science classes. 
The gospel of Walshe-Frese shall be our salvation ... "Common Sense." Save for a redeeming poem by Professor Sandeen it would be a tax upon the imagination of a daVinci to assemble a more bizarre collection of half-witted contributors to a one-tenth witted rag. Sustained, mind you, by an advert for The Na­tion. The Nation!! The Nation?? 
As an elitist Burkean, Thomist, conservative I salute The New Republic in spite of its misguided well-meaning limp liberalism. But The Nation? Why not Mein Kampf as the required bible at our Peace Institute? 
Indeed I am inspired to suggest that the creation of a few professor­ships at Gulag du Lac will bring about the new Jerusalem so eagerly yearned for by our fellow prisoners, Walshe and Frese. To wit: 
The Carl Sagan Chair in Astrology 
The Brest-Litovsk Chair in Peace 
The Dr. Ruth Waterbed in Sexual Ethics 
The M. Murray O'Hair Chair in Atheism 
The Walshe-Frese Chair in Psyc­hoceramics. 
Garry Trudeau 
Have a nice century, kids. And for­
get not to  sue your university for  
malpractice.  
James J. Carberry  

Professor of Chemical Engineering 
Fr. Griffin column is very perplexing 
Dear Editor: 
I like to think that the lonely God to whom Fr. Griffin addresses his epistles was as perplexed by his Oc­tober 15 missive as I was. From time to time, Fr. Griffin gives his audi­ence a glimpse of his fierce disgust at a fallen world. When it goes un­checked, this disgust sabotages his otherwise avuncular good-sense, turning him into a moralizing scourge. 
My impression, gathered from what Fr. Griffin has written about his parents, is that he remains torn between two very different parental modes of operating. At his most im­pressive, when, for example, he reaches out with delicacy to soci­ety's misfits and oddballs, his model seems to be that of his mother. However, the moralizing cavils probably represent a filial obeisance to the shade of his Yankee father. 
Anyway, that last letter seems to me to have been written by some puritanical doppelganger. What is Fr. Griffin trying to achieve when he writes about homosexuality with such gratuitous insensitivity? He should know by now that gay­bashing says more, much more, about the basher than the bashed. 
His tilt at condoms was also rash; they interfere, he says, with spon­taneity in sex. A celibate priest should think twice before indulging in such loose talk. At best it is Cath­olic, romantic nonsense and at worst it puts women at risk: one man's unsheathed romp is another wo­man's unwanted pregnancy. In a let­ter to novelist Rebecca W-est, the mother of his child, H.G. Wells wrote: 'For ten years I've shaped my life mainly to repair the care­lessness of one moment. It has been no good and I am tired of it.' Poor mother. Poor child. 
I am reminded too of a pre-teen victim of spontaneous sex that I met recently: her twelve year old body was swollen with the baby she will deliver in a couple of months. It is hard not to feel rage at men like Fr. Griffin at a moment like this. The kind of romantic, macho ideology he preaches when wearing his patriar­chal hat could well have been part of the psychological baggage carried by the swine -a man in his twenties-who impregnated this will­ing by hapless young girl. 
Ann Pettifer Notre Dame Alumna 

THEY60TKilLE/?. 
7H8tHAOA GOOf). AT
TH£; NETWORTH 
PAY PHON£;. teAST7Hef~
OFc:&LI..-IJI1XJ<5 
7I£Y aeAN&IJ {)/V//JUJ.
:l:l~ ''8" ANPTJ" 
IJPON 711£ BONO I 
/lllt)PP&f? 

ltfMK&T.
1115 \
MIUJON! 
/ 
Quote of the Day 
"Where annual elections end, there slavery begins." 
John Quincy Adams 
--~-------­
Tuesday, November 3, 1987

page 8 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
Interhall football equipment return will be tomorrow at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Carroll-6 p.m., Cavanaugh-6:30 p.m., Grace-7 p.m., Holy Cross-7:30p.m., Keenan-8 p.m., Morrissey-8:30p.m., St. Eds-9 p.m., Sorin-9:30 p.m. Return times for the remaining halls will take place after the playoffs and will be announced shortly. There will be a $5 fee for any equipment returned after each hall's designated date. -The Observer 
Squash Club T-shirts are in. Members can get their shirts by contacting Allan at 3211. Mem­bers are also encouraged to sign up for the NVA squash tournament. Deadline is Nov. 4. -The Ob­server 
NBA basketball will be the topic tonight on WVFI's Speaking of Sports. Call 239-6400 to give your predictions on the upcoming season. -The Ob­server 
In Monday Night Football, the Dallas Cowboys came back in the fourth quarter to defeat the New York Giants, 33-24, in Dallas. -Associated Press 
n.a....Non Deme offtce, loc*ecl on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dint Center, 8CCePb claalfled em.tiUIQ from 10 a.m. until .. p.m., Monday througll FrtUJ. n.~Selnt Mery's office, located on the third floor of ......,Collge Cent•. 8CCIPI8 c:IMIHieda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday tfln:Jugtl FrtUJ. DNdllne lor next-day c:laalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claulfleda muat 
be ~. either In peraon or by mell. The c:Mrge Ia 10 cen._ per tift

Classifieds 
~~-­

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORO PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 
234-8997 
Typing 237-11141 or 277-1131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER 233-7001. 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n­7406 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277-1015 DAY. 
Soon the Prophecies ol the invasion of Israel and the Great Earthquake will be fulfilled (cf. Ezekiel 38, Oaniel12). Form­ing a community, sell-sufficient in food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming deslructlon. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634­4475 
Yogi's Yogurt needs part-time help. You may take holidays and breaks off. Must be responsible, wort< well with public, neat and have references. Willing to work Sundays, Sats, and evenings. We are flexible. Approximately 10·15 hours a week. Start at $3.S<»>r. $.50 mora on Sundeys and .25 raise when you have learned the job. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST -Gold Crees and Chain • Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD WED. BEFORE BREAK I LEFT A GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WITH A REO STRIPE IN THE SOLrrH DINING HALL AT LUNCH. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THAT SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IT IS MY FA· VOR~SHIRT AND I MISS MY MOT· HER VERY MUCH. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD 
Lost: Gold St. Chrlatopher medal sur­rounded by 10 small pearls with Maureen inacribed on the back. EJCtrema sentimen­tal value. Lost on Saturday Oct. 24. REWARD H found. Call (818) 795-7535 collect and ask lor Mary. 
Lost: CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE STONE REWARD-PLEASE CALL 271· 
0480 
Lost -dark blue backpack either In Filzpalrtck or LaFortune. Contains book on Hany Truman and en addrea book. Reward K found. Contact Evan at x5699 during day. 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST ONE PAIR LL BEAN I BOLLE CAT STYLE SUNGLASSES, BLACK. REWARD IF RETURNED! PLEASE CALL £3508 OR £3488; CHRIS 
I lound • IIW8tch w' two gold rings on South Clulld. II they 1118 yours, calt me 113722. 
LOST: HALLOWEEN NIGHT. 1 GOLD KNOT EARRING. KINDA BIG. MY FA· VORITE PAIRIII PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU FIND IT BECAUSE I HATE TO WEAR ONLY 1 EARRING. SMC-.4100 
FOR RENT 
~lhii2BR ..,.rtment now lor l!)ltng .......,.8111! move In anytime.$ 325tno. lncludN utilllea. Call 232·9239. 
Now 8howlng lor ~ leMe. IIBR, 2 t.lh houle on bua line. C8ll 232· 112311. 
WANTED \ 
HELP WANTED 
Alll8l S8lel "-NNc»d lor IDaiJ
NCOI'd--,._._ .... ....,_ 
prWrred. 25 hour per ..... Pl*llon. 8rtng ,__ID:Tr.-1831 E. Edleon. NOpharWc.lll, ...... 
NEED BC STUDENT TIX ICALL DIANE 413214128 
WORK IN JAPAN AND TAIWAN • undergr8da •nd gr8d8 allglbltl for En­gllah convarutton lnatructor poal­tlona. Long •nd ahort-tarm poalbiiiiiM, Including aummera. TMChlng experience not requl...cl; cl8._ conducted In Engllah. Good pey. Opportunity to atudy Chi-or JapeneM. Pilon nowl Write: Chin• Japen S.rvlcee, 25051 St., NW, Wall­Ington, DC 20037. 
FOR SALE 
Ia II True You C.n Buy Jeep• for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the tecta todayl Call 1-312-742·1142 Ext. 73111. 
For S.le ·2 United AlrllnM round-trip tlc:lutta to •nywhere In the continental 
U.S. $200 • or beat offer. C.ll Tr•ce at 277·1773. 
JVC RC-880 portable boom box; like new, best offer; Jay ><2072 
Round-trip plane tlxlrom SB to WASH· lNGTON DC during Thanksgiv. break lor sale--CHEAPII Must leave Mon. alter· noon and return Sun. monning. Call Kathy at X4231. 
1 ROUND TRIP O'HARE-FT. LAUDER· DALE DEPART-11.'25 RETURN·1t29 $300 3459 
Zenith owners: Microsoft Word 3.0, Microsoft Windows, GW·BASIC and EMS Memory Upgrade kH, including all manuals and warranties, all new and un­opened. $150 the lot. Call Gerry x.7125 before 5pm. 
TICKETS 
NEED 1 OA FOR BC CALL SHAWN AT 2235
....._.....___._............. 
CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111 
..•...........•..................
................................. 
I nslllly, really, reilly Mad 1 Alabama ticket. S1udent or GA wiH do. ean John at 283· 
2445. 

.................................
................................. 
BOSTON COLLEGE OA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered lor BC GA'a I'm holding your family hostage Pie-call Chris X 1489 
NEED ALABAMA OA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE ~7-45111 alter 
6pm. 
IIC Yep, I nMd two GAs lor the Beeton Col­lege game. P!eua call Mike 11271.0785. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE OA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY ·PARENTS Wlll BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR OA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 
I NI!ED GAa FOR ALL HOME GAIIIE5.272-aDII 
NEED II GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ET8 TO ALAIIAMA ,._ NOTRE DAilE GAME. WILL PAY TOP tt$. CALL COLLECT (114) 11311-MIO BEFORE I 
OR (814) ....,._AFTER 5 Pll. 
NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS 
X2800. 
....................................................._...,..... 
NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Wll pay big budcl. Call Joe aftlr llpm 11287...5111 
HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 201!7 
NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VAZ. AT 271-o57V PAY BIG$$$ 
NUD BC 11X. CALL 27M282...... 
$$$$$ $$$$$$ Need 'Bema G.A.'s 272· 4162 
NEED BC TICKETS! MUST HAVE 2 STUDENT OR GAs Call Marty at 239-7569 
Need 4 Boston C.-NO tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233­2651. . 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDSI Call John 271-0939 
Wllltnlde 2 BC GA'a lor 2 Bam• GA'a. C8ll Marla at £45511 
NEED B.C.,BAMA TIX.CHRIS 1609 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.s call £1852, ask lor Bryan. Will pay $$$. 
DESPERATE Student willing to pay major dollars lor 4 Bema tix. (G.A.or stud.) call Hugh at 2120. 
I have your Alabema tickets BUT.... I need BC tickets; will trade staighl across call me please IIIII Meleah x2674 
I NEED ABC STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR A MEMBER OF TEO KENNEDY'S STAFF CALL STEVE X1654 
NEED BC OR 'BAMA TIX. CALL 303· 2711-08115. 
FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT NEEDS 4 
B.C. GA'S REACH HIM CO MATT 283­
35411 
BC student or GA ticket needed, call Dave x1589 
BOSTON COLLEGE NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JEFF £1453 
TRADE 2 BAMA STU TIX FOR 2 BC ANDY 239-5607 
WANTED: II NO VI ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 213-51121 FROM WPM. 
Did your parents lose money In the stock market? Mine didn't so they have LOTS of CASH lor ANY BC TICKETS! Call MIKE at 4245 
I need 3 BAMA tickets I WiH pay big bucks. Astrella 271-9438 
I need 2 BC ticketal Student or GA. Please call Astrella 271·9438 
I NEED 2 'BAMA TIXI $$$ NO OPTION. CALL TED 287·5541 
NEED ALABAMA TIX BAD X3137 
WIU BEAT ANY OFFER ON STUDENT TICKETS FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL CHRISTY 3829 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON ><2519. 
I NEED 'llAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 
3347111 
ATTENTION:AIR FORCE INTERESTS Thana 1118 two AIR FORCE PILOTS (Worthemith AFB) coming to talk to ua about their experiences and Mure car-. They aak lor two Beeton College GA'a TIXS, TOOl PLEASE HELP THE PILOTS. They wiN pay $$$ K inblrested In AIR FORCE, you can t8llc to them. PLEASE SELL ME TIXS then fl tell you wlhen ita about PLEASE CALL ME X3276 AIM HIGH! 
HELPIII l NEED B.C. TIXS STUD. OR GA WIU DO CALL 1683 
NEED ONE B.C. STUD. TICKET FOR THE CHICK CALL PAT 271~ 
BC & Al.ABMAIIII NEED STUD TIX FOR BOTH GAMES. FRIENDS MUST SEE NO PLAY FOR FIRST TIMEI CALL JOHN AT3451 
I HAVE TWO BC GA'S, BLrr NEED 'BAMA GA'S INSTEAD. WOULD PREFER TO TRADE BUT WllSETTLE FOR LARGE AMOUNTS OF CASH IF NO TRADE AVAIL INTERESTED? CALL JEFF AT X1802 
NEED tS BAMA GA'a. CALL 411111. $$$$$ 
MYPACKAGEHURTSSOMUCHTHAT I CAN'T DRINK. 10 1..... ..-..cl 8 huge .-.dol cull which I w11 pay lor 4 BC GAa. BtG, BIG $$$FOR 4 BC GAa. c.n John. 271..()4114. 
I have B.C. G.A.'sl 50 yardersl Will trade ONLY lor GOOD 'BAMA G.A.'S. CAU Rob f 106 NOWII 
HELPIIHELPII NEED ONLY ONE STU­DENT BC TICKET. CALL 233-9660 ASK FOR BOB OR PLEASE LEAVE MEs­SAGE. 
BAMA TIXS Can guarantee $30 min Call Paulf424 
TICKETS FOR REMAINING HOME GAMES. FOR CASH OR FOOD. COL· LEEN£4355 
................................,............................... 
HEY TAILGATERSI I REALLY NEED ONE ALABAMA TICKET FOR MY YOUNGER BROTHER WHO HAS NEVER SEEN A NO FOOTBALL GAME. WHY NOT PARTY YOURSELF INTO OBLIVION WITH THE KNOWLEDGE THAT YOU WONT'T MISS THE GAME FROM BEING A LITTLE TOO BLOTTO? SELL ME YOUR TICKET (STUDENT OR GA) INSTEAD. I'LL PAY LOTS 0' $$$$$. CALL SEAN MCCARTHY AT 288-1842 EVENINGS. 
Need: B.C. TIX (GA or Studs) Call Nick at 3214 
I NEED 2 B.C GA'S CALL ERIN X4208 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 BAMA GA. WILL SPEND BIG $$$. CALL JOHN 1076. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO BC STUD TIX OR GA'S. CALL TODD AT 2937. 
I NEED YOUR BC student tixlll Call Bob at 1441 or 1352. 
I NEED 3 GA'S FOR BC. CALL 284-5626 OR 272·1988 
South Bend native would like parents to see HOMEGROWN HERO A.Johnson play. I need 2 or 4 GA's lor B.C. II you can help, call Craig at 234·7018. 
Looking lor 2 BC tix (stud or GA) Will pay lor them or trade Barna tix. Call Usa £1319 
HELPI NEED 1 BAMA GA. PLEASE CALL KAREN £4675. 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOA, CARRY OLrr TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S?7? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WIU BUY THEMI WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
LAST CHANCEl Umll8d apece 
,_.n• on Not,. Dame Winter Sid 
BI'MII• to Steamboat, Vall, WI"'-Pwll 
and Breclcanrldge tor live or ­
nights deluxe lodging, 1111 llckel8, 
mountain barbecue, alii ,_llnd...­
lrom only $!54. ()ptlc>MI air llnCI 
chartar bu• tranaportatlon •valltlble. 
Hurry, call Sunch8M TOUF8 toll trw 
tor tuU detalla and color brochure, 1· ~1-111111 TODAYI 
LOST: GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WfiEO STRIPE IN S. DINING HALL ON WED. BEFORE BREAK. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THIS SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. I WIU PAY YOU$$$ 
Anyone going to THAT PETI'IOL EMO­
TION on Nov II? I NEED A AIOEI II 
there'• eny -In your car, pleMe 
call Kathy 2823. 
NEED BC TIX.CALL KATHY 284-5531 
MAIL CAMPAIONS, MAIL CAII­PAIONS, MAIL CAMPAIONS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAION." TONIGHT, 11:30 P.M., 122 HAYES HEALY CENTER. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CA..EEA AND PLACI!MENT SEAVICU. ALL MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAll CAM­PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN. • TONIGHT, 8:30 p.m., 122 HAYES HEALY CENTER PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
uiii:''"'"cAMPAioN&.......uAiL.....cA'M:. 
PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS "HOW TO CONDUCT AN EFFECTIVE MAIL CAMPAIGN. • TONIGHT, 11:30 p.m., 122 HAYES HEALY CENTER PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. All MAJORS AND CLASSES WELCOME. 
cii:A'i~~ti~~·):;;;;·k;·;·g;~;;~i·;;;;;;;~!ii~ 
the Summer Program In Mexico Wed­nesday, Nov. 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the CSC Call Mike at x1 049 or Dan at 27Hl804 lor details 
:uz n HANK: OK, I lied-you ARE pals (you 2 JANE)I YOU LIGHT UP MY LIFE ·Ms. Wool Punch (your favorite lamp shade) 
HEY YOU Tuesday 10 pm Chip's MONARCH hear some jammin' tunes done pret1y dem loud. Dance. Relax. Make new friends. 
Andy S., The Shamrock was worth the dollar. 
SGT SQUYRES??? THIS IS NO JOKE...I WAt-fT YOUR BODY 
MONARCH tonita at CHIP'S $2 pitchers 
ANNE, It's been a month since we first went out. I know I'm nothing spacial, and I don't have great eyes like Paul Newman but I hopa that In some way I have cap­tured part ol your heart, because you've definitely captured mine. Love. MARK 
Desperately need 2 BC tix and 3 'Bema tlx, student or GA. Kevin 1885 
You don't have to have made promisaa to be a tease. All you have to do is start something you are not planning to finish . 
What a deall 
NO student has new and uSed lum~ura 
to sell cheap. 
Coffee table 
End table 
Compuler deek 
Card table 
Folding chalra 
Desk 
Lamp 
Call Cathy at 287·9338 
.....F ... 
My ffrat wish I want you to ma/re a tape for me of the following: 
1. 
Summarize your childhood 

2. 
Tell me aboUt your worst fear 


3. Describe your secnst fantuy 
4. 
Imitate your favorite animal 

5. 
Tell me why you want to play lor the 


s~ers 
tl. Wlliaper sweet nothlnga 
7. And sing your fiiVOrlle love song (Not breed & butter, please) Thia tape ahould be dellvensd to my room In three days -no more, no leu -or be prepared to face the conaequences. 
P. S. Til/a Ia the eaa/eat of the thnse// 
LAW STUDENTS! MONARCH wil be at CHIP'S tueeday $2 pltchera 
CLAS8 OFM 
BENIOA BARN BASH 
Diamond D Ranch 
$8 tickala aold w:rw Senk>r Claaa office 
(NO) LeMane lobby (SMC) Tranaporta· 
lion provided 21 ID REQUIRED 
Oh no, I'm glad I didn't go to UCLA 
............................................................... 
LMS I'd love to card you -The Bouncer 
The Paaadena Palace 
FNturing Mueic, Ladles Night Live Stereo 
Rldenl needed to WASH. D.C. lo lhare ooets and OOfll*'Y lor weekend ol Nov. 
7. Cal Rich x1785. 
HELP MEl I NEED ONE BC TICKET. CALL ALLISON AT 1340. 
SOAJN HALL'S 88th ANNUAL TALENT SHOW 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11th AT 8:30PM ON THE FRONT STEPS OF BORIN COLLEGE 
To Erin in PW or PE: Thenk you so much lor aasisting me with the "long walk home" from 0-2 last Frldey. I hope I can see you again to parsonally thank you, but hopalully I won1 be in the same condition. I owe youl The AHered Fork 
GlOGE & LIZ-G TONIGHrS THE NIGHT--SCORE GALOREIII STEFFS & RED DOG 
What was It you said, Kim and Katie? "II you open the car door lor a girl...• and then something about carpentry? HEH HEH -the Boy (Uh Huh) 
······················································ 
MY MISTRESS, DEAREST, AND I THUS HUMBLE EVER. FERDINAND THE TEMPEST 
3 ALASKANS are coming down lor ALABAMA and they need TICKETSIII GA or student Call JAN X2n6 
II'a RoM Herrm•nn'a 20th belay, 110 go 8hMd & kltl• her, baby....,othlng m•k• her alck,not even W81klng In on boya In the bathroom. Juat lf*lk F,...ch,dont HI her chicken,& kMp her •way from wlr•, & everything ahould go amoolhly..Jf It doNn'! , II'• 
hi• -ndamn faull...wun•t that• road trip? Have fun on your belay, watch out for aklnny leg•, UM paaout 
chKka u .,..,....ry, & ,.......,.,.._ rcome Mond•Y· It'll be •II right. Love, the Blind Bombtlhetltl. 
To the mystery CHAINSAW man from Carrol Hall, You did your job well--we were scaredlll Thanks lor a memorable Halloween. --the two girls In the last group I 
CHICKS BEWARE: THERE IS AN IM· POSTOR SALADBAR BOY. ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES. 
COGSWELLS WE'RE ALWAYS THINK­ING ABOLrr YOU! LOTS OF LOVE, CHRIS MARK TOM JUSTIN ROS DUGS SONNY CHUCK MARTY PAUL 
Sheron, than• lor the U2 tix. We love ya lor H. Sorin 353. 
To the wonderlut young lady that gave us a ride home from Bridger's at 3:15 Saturday monnlng, you're a IHe saver. Maggie was a hurtin' unit . 
Amy, we hope you had a wonderful b-day and got some nice stu". We lull you. 
Chriatina (6th floor PE) Thanks lor lhe treats I Don't avoid the Noidlll The NOlO-I deliver I 
Patty, You've come to yet another bridge, and you wiH crou H wen, Hke you have the others behind you. You know you can come over any time and you can borrow my jacket any tima you want. Moat important, h•ve a great blrthdaylll Love, your friends from Stanford, not Zahm. John and Nick 
To the OFF CAMPUS GIRL who rnede my HalloMen night the beat ever ·I'm gled WI decided not to tell horror stories the whole night ... 
You told me that you drag people t1vu the mud, but I dldnl believe you til I got dirty. 
CALVIN I hope that aome day you will be able 1o cal me aweeome again. I lilac hope that you have • great week-you deaerve HI Smllel You're stupendous! Love, your friend? HOB8ES 
Zahmble OOOBEAS, Hyou-want to-your thlnge again: 
1. 
Candlelight clnner 

2. 
Find MALFAOOR 


3. Delqulrts lor all But most old,~ heppena, STAY IN YOUR SEATSI "X" 
TO THE DARK-HAIRED GUY,HUOOLE GRILL,LAST TUES,IIPM,ND SWEAT· SHIRT, BLUE POLO.BLU&GREEN DUFFEL· THE GIRL AHEAD OF YOU IN LINE WANTS TO MEET YOUISMC­
4100. 

Tuesday, November 3, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
Women's CC places second 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer  tion of the points. While the Irish placed seven runners ahead of DePaul's fifth-place  knew she was going to run well, but not that well."  
The problems keep ac­cumulating for the women's cross country team. Just after coach Dan Ryan got his squad back in top shape and at full strength, he has an­other problem -finding some­one to emerge from the pack  finisher, the Blue Demons' top three crossed the line in front of Ryan's top runner. "We need a front runner to beat DePaul," Ryan said. "We just didn't have anybody break up DePaul's top three runners.  "The field greatly improved this year,'' he said. ''For exam­ple, Kathleen's time was one second faster than last year, but she lost three places. Wendy improved 32 seconds, but only picked up one place. This shows how the conference  
and assume the role of a dom­inant runner.  They didn't really run poorly, but they understand they have  has improved board."  across  the  
Ryan realized the pressing need for an overpowering run­ner Saturday as the Irish  a job to do. They have to run where they're supposed to and not back with the pack."  Julia Merkel took lOth with a time of 18: 59, 1:34 off her  
finished second to DePaul in  Theresa  Rice  was  the  top  second-place  finish  in  1986.  
the  North  Star  Conference  Irish  finisher  with  an  eight­ Kathleen Lehman  and  Jenny  
Meet in Milwaukee. The Blue  place finish in a time of 18:44.  Ledrick  rounded  out  the  
Demons tallied 46 points to Notre Dame's 54. Marquette took third with 56 followed by Dayton in fourth at 57. It was the second consecutive year that the Irish finished second to DePaul.  Terry Kibelstis, in her first race after recovering from a stress fracture, took ninth in a 18: 50 clocking that left Ryan looking forward to seeing her at full strength for the districts in two weeks.  scoring in 13th and 14th places. Other Irish finishers were Linda Filar in 20th, Wendy Murray in 21st, Ruth Piatz in 26th and Renee Kaptur in 28th. Ryan pointed to the overall move toward parity in the con­ 
The disturbing part of the meet to Ryan was the distribu­ "Terry ran the fastest time she's ever run," he said. "I  ference as a reason for some of the low results.  

Irish still 9th in AP 
Associated Press 
Mter a 56-13 destruction of Navy in a weekend that saw few upsets, the Notre Dame football team remained ninth in the Associated Press Poll. 
Second-ranked Nebraska cut into top-rated Okla­homa's lead for the third week in a row in the Associ­ated Press college football poll Monday while Texas A&M replaced Ohio State in the Top Twenty. 
Oklahoma, which has been No. 1 in every poll this season, pounded Kansas 71­10 and received 38 of 60 first­place votes and 1,173 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Nebraska, which defeated Missouri 42-7, received 15 first-place ballots and 1,137 points. The Cornhuskers have been No. 2 all season although both teams have identical 8-0 records. 
Last week, Oklahoma led Nebraska 40-13 in first-place votes and 1,176-1,134 in points. The previous week, it was 42-12 and 1,179-1,134 and the week before that 47-7 and 1,184-1,122. 
The remaining seven first­place votes and 1,108 points went to Miami of Florida, which is No. 3 for the sixth consecutive week after defeating East Carolina 41-3. 
The top nine teams are the same as last week. Fourth­ranked Florida State wal­loped Tulane 73-14 and received 987 points, No. 5 LSU beat Mississippi 42-13 and received 943 points and No. 6 Auburn trimmed Florida 29-6 and received 906 points. 


Hussein wins New York City Marathon 
Associated Press personal-best two hours, 11 at the University of New 
minutes, 1 second. "I said, Mexico. 
NEW YORK-When Ibrahim 'How could this be, so many Hussein, who was ninth in Hussein was a teen-ager people?' New York in 1985 in his marat­growing up in Kenya, he read "I imagined myself being hon debut and fifth last year,about the New York City there . . . but I really couldn't wore down early leader Pat Marathon, but he never imagine me coming and run­Petersen shortly past the 14­
thought he'd be a part of it -and ning. I never dreamed I would mile point and finished 52 a winner. run in New York -and win. seconds ahead of runner-up
"When I was in high school "It was a fantasy." Gianni DeMadonna of Italy. ... I read an article about New "At the eight-mile mark, I York ... how they had 11,000 The fantasy turned into could see that I was closing in runners," Hussein, 29, said reality Sunday for Hussein, a on Petersen," Hussein said. Monday, one day after winning former Western Athletic Con­"When I went past him, I felt the prestigious race in a ference steeplechase champion fresh. 
..-----------------------, realize that we're in the hunt 
LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 

~ FREE ~ TOPPINGS 
YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS AT THE CHEESE PIZZA PRICE 
-CALL  AHEAD  FOR  FAST  PICKUP  OR  
DEL/VERY­ 
283-2391  
CLIP AND SAVE  CUP AND SAVE  

I
SAVE UP TO $4.00 I I 1-1 0'; PIZZA WITH I TOPPINGS OF YOUR : CHOICE I 
FOR $4.50 : 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO: 
-WE DELNER FREE­
I 
SAVE UP TO 
$5.50 
1-14" PIZZA WITH TOPPINGS OF YOUR 
CHOICE 
FOR $6.50 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
-WE DELIVER FREE­
COUPON MUST BE PRESENTEDI COUPON MUST BE PRESENTED FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID I FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VAUD WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. I WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. Expires After 11-9-87 ! Expires After 11·9-87 
Burger 
continued from page 12 
Burger: Well here I am. What are you going to do? 
NCAA: Mr. Burger, I trust you realize the severity of your infractions. We here at the col­legiate governing body don't 
take your actions lightly. Burger: But sir! You have to 
for a major bowl, maybe the Sugar Bowl. The team needs me. I can't let them down. 
NCAA: There are no excep­tions when the NCAA rules are concerned. Need I remind you where the SMU football team has gone? We did away with them and we can do with you, if the rules provide for that kind of action, of course. Remember the huge ticket scalping scan­dal at Nebraska? 
Burger: Yeah. You let them play the next week. 
NCAA: Well, that penalty fit the offense perfectly. We scared them, but let them play because everyone does it and it wouldn't have been fair to penalize the whole team. That's what we strive for. Per­fect application of the bylaws. 
Burger:  What  does  that  
mean for me?  
NCAA:  Let  me see.  We  

taught that Bosworth guy a thing or to about respect for us. He took steroids and we kept him out of the Orange Bowl. Steroids are a major problem and we had to do something about it. 
Now for you, Mr. Burger. Let's see, multiple offender, academic cheating, taking ille­gal payments. I'm sorry but we're going to have to be quite stiff. Forty hours of community service, how does that sound? 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED S15,50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS (NILES 
D NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 

No, wait. You have to pay back the money for the plane ticket, too, and you can't start against Florida. That'll fix you for taking us lightly. 
Burger: Wow. Can I play though? NCAA: You may play, but you can't start this week. 
Burger: Why don't I just sit out the first play and then go in for the rest of the game? 
NCAA: I can't answer that, I just deal out the punishment. Now, we've had trouble with you numerous times before, I hope this will let you know we really mean business. 
Auburn: But sir. Jeff isn't a bad guy. He's just made some bad decisions. 
Burger: Yeah. It was just a bad judgment on my part. 
NCAA: When you mess with the NCAA, you have to pay the price. 
Burger: Sorry sir, it won't happen again. 
Volleyball
continued from page 12 
Western Michigan currently is 17-5, and has beaten the Irish twice in the past, including a 3-1 win last fall at the Joyce ACC. 
"Western Michigan is a well­coached team and a very big team, bigg~ than we are," said Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert. "They are not an easy team to hit against. 
"They are another one of our Top 20 opponents,'' added Lam­bert, "and it sure would be nice to beat one of them." 
The Irish will also face the Broncos in the regular season finale on Nov. 17 in Kalamazoo. 
Mter taking on Western Mic­higan tonight, the Irish face Eastern Michigan on Wednes­day and travel to Dayton Thursday. 
Tuesday, November 3, 1987

page 10 The Observer 


Rowing Club ends season in championship form 
The Women's Rowing Club saved its best for last forth its stongest performance of the season." Both squads will hold an alumni row before the in the Head of the Tennessee last Saturday in Knox­The Men's Rowing Club, meanwhile, fared almost Boston College football game Saturday at 9 a.m. In ville. equally as well. addition, the novice team will compete in a regatta 
The club closed out its fall schedule with two gold The heavyweight four's team of Marc Gwadz, Nov. 24 in Philadelphia. medal performances against some of the top teams Tom Barnhorst, Brian Lapps and Mike Hammett in the East and South. If the gold medal showing along with coxswain Kristi Galli took first place ••• was not enough, the two teams set new course records. The Rugby Club did not play Michigan State as
Greg
Team members of the victorious women's eights regularly scheduled Saturday as the Spartans were Mary Devlin, Paula Thompson, Joan Neuner, Guffey declined to make the trip. The Irish will be back in Lisa Herb, Karen Doty, Mary Elberson, Suzanne action Saturday as they host Boston College behind Lutz and Kelly Harris with Eric Werner as the Stepan Center. 
Club Corner
coxswain. Members of the four's included Kelly Harrington, Maureen Kibelstis, Carol Blanchette and Patti Gontarz with Kathleen McTigue serving while setting a new course record. "I expected them as the coxswain. to win. but I didn't realize they would best the course The fall seasons of the Varsity Rowing, Women's 

"We dominated the women's side," women's record," coach Chris Nye said. "That was an added Soccer, Water Polo, Boxing and Women's Golf coach Susan Pusak said. "We were able to race bonus." Clubs have ended. The Ski Club and Gymnasticsagainst some of the stronger teams in the South The eight's finished fourth, while the lightweight Club, meanwhile, are preparing for their respective that we won't see in other races. Ea(!h boat put four's took second and third respectively. winter schedules. 
Irish lose twice in weekend matches 
By KATIE CRONIN Sports Writer 
There were no treats for the Notre Dame field hockey team this weekend. Visiting in Springfield, Missouri, the Irish lost to Southwest Missouri State 2-0 and Southern Illinois­Carbondale 1-0. 
SW Missouri State defeated the Irish last Friday afternoon, scoring at 27:31 in the first half and again after a penalty cor­ner at 12: 10 in the second half. The Bears took 20 shots on goal; Notre Dame had 8. Irish goalie M.J. Beetel recorded 16 saves. 
Coach Jill Lindenfeld praised Beetel and fellow senior JoAnne Marshall for playing well. "SW Missouri was good," said Lindenfeld. They were consistent, passed the ball well, made few mistakes, and kept pressuring us." 
Saturday's game against Southern Illinois-Carbondale was even more frustrating. "The game could have gone either way," said Lindenfeld. "We had difficulties with for­ward play. The offense had problems taking advantage of scoring opportunities," said Lindenfeld. 
Jenny Coraes put the winning score in the nets for SIU at 
23:00 in the first half, capitaliz­ing on SIU's 18 shots on the Notre Dame goal. Notre Dame took 21 shots on goal. Annie McGlinn missed a first half penalty stroke that would have tied the game. 
Lindenfeld commemded freshman Patty Ahearne for strong play in both games this weekend. "Patty had an out­standing defensive game against SIU. She held back their high scorer, denying her any goals," said Lindenfeld. 

The San Francisco Giants had reason to celebrate this season after going from last place to first place In just two years. The Associated Press saluted Giants manager Roger Craig and his Na-
Howtoavoidajob


stopsgro · gbeforeyoudo. 
Ifyou're abright, ambitious 
Come learnabout abetterway.college student, there's no room in 
At the !Etna information ses­

your future for adull, nowhere job. 
sion, you'lllearn you don't have to

Come to the !Etna informa­fit amold to fit into a good job.Just
tion seminat; and we'll introduce bring us your drive, imaginationyou to opportunities as wide open 
and aproven desire to achieve.

and stimulating as your own 
Whether you're looking for

imagination. 
acaree~ or even an internship,We're amajor player in the we'll show you how!Etna couldchanging world of financial ser­

be one of your life's biggest growthvice;. With new, non-stop career opportunities.

paths and new challenges opening 
fi§uiji

up almost every day. From product and service marketing to undetvvTit­WorkWith The Best In The Business ing and actuarial to information systems and more. Date: November 11 
Time: 7:30P.M. Place: Campus Cente~ Faculty Dining Room 




Tuesday, November 3, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
-

He's survived the 
most hostile 
and primitive 
SUB presents: land known to man. 


Now all he's got to do is make it through a week in New York. Tuesday & Wednesday DEE 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 pm 
$2.00
DUNDEE Engineering Auditorium 
Campus 
4:14 p.m.: Navy I Marine Corps Birthday Ceremony. Hesburgh LibraryAuditorium. 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium "The Initial Phase of Cosmological Evolution and Formation of Structure in the Universe," by Hans Haubold, Central Institute for Astralphysics, Potsdam, East Germany. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar: "Glutathione: A Biochemical Index of Aging in Mosquitoes, Mice, and Men" by Calvin Lang of the University of Louisville Medical School. 283, Auditorium, Galvin Life Science Center. Coffee at 4:15p.m. 
5:30p.m.: Hispanic-American Organization Meeting in the Breen-Phillips Puz­zle Room. 
6: 30 p.m.-8 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series "Depression," by Patrick Utz, Director, Counseling and Phychological Services Center. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
6:30p.m.: Lecture sponsored by Career and Placement Services on "How to Conduct an Effective Mail Campaign" by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director. 122 Hayes-Healy Center. 
7 p.m.: Presentation/Reception for all CAPP, MIS, MCC and E & CE students interested in discovering career opportunities in Merrill Lynch Corporate Systems Training Program sponsored by Career and Placement Services. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m. &9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Top Secret." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 
p.m.: Department of Anthropology and College of Arts and Letters Dis­tinguished Visiting Scholar Series Lecture Theme: The Nature of Human Nature. "The Role of Culture and Biology in Human Aesthetic Behavior," by Professor. Alexander Alland, Jr., Department of Anthropology, Columbia University. Li­brary Lounge. 

7:30p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Western Michigan University, JACC. 

7:30 
p.m.: Department of American Studies and the Center for Continuing Education Faculty Seminar Series. Theme: Reflections on Philadelphia: The Constitution and the Catholic People. "Say That Again, A Commercial Republic?" by Professor Michael Novak, Welch Chair Professor of American Studies. CCE 


Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Pork Hoagie Sesame Baked Cod Roast Turkey Broccoli Cheese Rice Casserole 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Mark Williams 
UH. .. ~1/(?-A/b)T THIS THAn j[. 
L11£ANIJHJLE. .IJOWNTOIJN I
(JTA1/0N-WHY ARt Yc:t' 6£T THE RN!Nv 11t WH[N 111 O.K.,BIIf£. HAN!> ITov~ WALKING-HOH£ ANb THAT oR ITS ov&. 
FALL -/Xi4/N ~Uo/K JfO· Y. 
I
CUJ 15 N?.MN{r? --~~~~ 
/ 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Broccoli Divan Cheese Omelets Beef & Bean Chimichanga Deli Bar 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Large amounts 
8 Seal groups 10 Common abbr. 14 Eng. explorer 15 Mine approach 18 Vein 17 Shady place 18 Wanton look 19 Atop 20 Harsh tones 22 Yardstick 24 Chess term 28 Sternutatory 
acts 27 Dairy 
machines 31 Go aimlessly 32 Pains 33 One who 
stares 35 Comic strip 
word 38 Wading bird 39 Sot 40 Race distance 41 Quill 42 Go by car 43 N. Oak. city 44 Vagrant 45 Certain novels 47 Night guide 51 Yemeni capital 52 Large shark 54 Most dreadful 58 Mythical 
princess 59 Together 
musically 81 Seed covering 82 Made haste 83 Legal paper 84 Swimming 
mammal 85 Escutcheon 
stripe 88 Hawaiian area 87 Addicts 
DOWN 1 Strikebreaker 2 Reiner or 
Sandburg 3 Rhyme scheme 4 Subservient 
ones 
..,_+--+--+---1-­
L-.-'---'---'-­
@1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Currents 8 Friend 7 Pinder's 
products 8 Food regimens 
9 Outsider 10 Avoided 11 Uris novel 12 Revere 13 Furnishes 21 Sault -Marte 23 Closefisted 25 Grain disease 27 Poker money 28 Rustle 29 Ireland 30 Flavor 34 Ciphers 11103187 35 Metallic 43 Algonquian so Card game 
element nature spirit 53 Wreck 38 Lily plant 44 Reproduces 55 Punta del ­37 Cats and dogs 48 Demented 56 Rhyme or 39 War club 47 Rigid trick 40 Moslem 48 Oar adjunct 57 Gobs edifices 49 City on the 60 Schedule 
42 -the word! Rhone abbr. 
The Far Side Gary Larson 




.. 


Sports 
Tuesday, November 3, 1987

page 12 
Penalty kicks go down hard 
Irish soccer holds its own, but falls to UCLA, SDSU 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer  mate Tom Connaghan against San Diego State. The end results in these  second half, including the game-winning penalty kick, to take the match.  
Two penalty kicks resulted in two losses for the Irish soccer squad over the weekend at the  "prove yourself" matches for Notre Dame overshadowed what were actually evenly­ Notre Dame played the final 15 minutes against UCLA a man short when McCourt was  
Metropolitan Life Tournament in Los Angeles. Tenth-ranked UCLA came from behind to  played matches, according to Irish head coach Dennis Grace. "We had more quality oppor­ handed his second yellow card of the match. Not until Sunday, however, did the team feel the  
edge Notre Dame, 3-2, on a penalty kick with 20 minutes  tunities to score than they did," said Grace. "We played really  effect of its leading-scorer's ab­sence.  
left in the match, and 8th­ranked San Diego State scored on a penalty kick with 3:44  well -I have no bad feelings about the way we played. In both games we had an oppor­ "It definitely hurt us," said Grace. "We played well a man short, but it hurt us the next  
remaining to beat Notre Dame, 1-0.  tunity to win." Under a steady downpoor Saturday, Notre Dame took an  day without him." According to Grace, Notre Dame had several excellent  
Both penalties whistled in the box were similar hand-ball  early lead against the Bruins when forward Randy Morris  scoring opportunities against the Aztecs in the first half, but  
calls on plays off corner kicks. Irish wingback Alex Kratz was  was credited with an own-goal by UCLA.  could not find the back of the net.  
I'  The Observer I Dan MacDonald In last weekend's Metropolitan Life Tournament In Los Angeles, Mike Drury and the Notre Dame soccer team lost to UCLA and San Diego State. Pete Gegen details the matches at right.  guarding the post when he had to reach for a shot against UCLA, and Irish wingback Dave Augustyn had to make a diving stop on an accidentally­deflected head ball by team- After the Bruins tied the game, forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt knocked home a loose ball off a restart, giving the Irish a 2-1 lead at half. But UCLA tallied twice in the  "We proved ourselves," said Augustyn. "We should have at least deserved a tie." Morris and Irish stopper Paul LaVigne were named to the all-tournament team.  
ND faces 16th ranked Broncos;  
I I, I  Collins dismissed from team By BRIAN O'GARA Collins, who both broke into the Lambert said, "I have always Assistant Sports Editor starting lineup last fall as asked my players to exercise freshmen. good judgment. That was not."  
To  get  invited  to  the  big  Cunningham suffered a disl- Collins could try to  appeal  
party, you've got to make your ocated shoulder on Oct. 11 on a  Lambert's decision,  but said  
name known.  dig attempt against Minnesota,  she would not.  
The Notre Dame volleyball while Collins was dismissed team has had numerous oppor-from the team last week by  "I can appeal," said Collins, "but I don't want to. It wouldn't  
tunities. to do just that and get Lambert. a bid to the NCAA Tournament. "Athletes  have  priorities,"  make a difference. I'm going to let some time pass and see  
After a 33-7 season last year,  said Lambert, "and hitting a  how things look in the spring.  
j  the Irish have faced a tougher schedule of opponents and have produced a 20-7 record to date.  bar until 2 a.m. on the night before a match is not one of them."  "He (Lambert) said that he was sick of irresponsibility on the team," added Collins on  
But of those seven losses, five  Collins was seen in a bar the  Lambert's decision,  "and he  
came to the six Top 20 teams  night before Notre Dame's 3-1  was going to use me as an ex­ 
on  the  Notre  Dame  agenda.  upset loss to Purdue last Wed­ ample."  
And the Irish host their sixth  nesday.  Lambert  dismissed  
nationally-ranked  opponent,  Collins for the remainder of  The loss  to  Purdue  was  a  
No.  16  Western  Michigan,  this season only, and hopes to  major blow to Notre Dame's  
' :,J. ;,·'~ 1..  tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce have the sophomore standout, ACC Pit. Notre Dame's all-time career Notre Dame comes into this assist leader after less than two all-important matchup without seasons, back for spring prac­ NCAA tournament hopes. The Broncos may represent the Irish's last chance to squeeze into the elite field of tourna­ Kathy Baker (2) and the rest of  the Notre Dame volleyball team  
two of their best weapons in the  tices and next season.  ment teams.  enter the stretch of the regular  season with a big match against  
past two seasons, sophomores Though there is no written Kathy Cunningham and Taryn policy of conduct for the team,  see VOLLEYBALL, page 9  nationally ranked Western Michigthe battle at left.  an tonight. Brian O'Gara previews  




Burger's eligibility shows hypocrisy of NCAA 
It seems all is not well in the South as far as college football goes. Scandals, deceit and a whole slew of shenanigans are giving the NCAA directors and rules committees a handful. 
And this time it isn't even the notorious confer­ence of chicanery, the Southwest Conference, that's involved. 
Auburn University quarterback Jeff Burger was involved in a another eligibility hangup last week that had the NCAA punishment crew and Auburn officials trying to find out what was going on and how they were going to deal with the possible rules violations. 
NCAA: Mr. Burger, you've been here before, haven't you. I recognize you and that's not good. 
Burger: Yes sir. 
NCAA: I've seen you once, no twice, oh I don't know how many times. Let's see the last time was for cheating, I recall. Didn't we suspend you for the season for plagiarism? You realize that using the work of others and calling it your own is a serious affront to ethics and honesty, attributes that we here in the NCAA do our darndest to uphold, don't you? I hope you don't plan to run for President because the public is getting a bit tougher on this kind of thing, too. 
Burger: Yes sir, and no sir. NCAA: Why then, have you been playing this season anyway? 
Burger: I appealed the decision and was reinstated, sir. 
NCAA: Oh, I missed that one. I must have been too caught up in that Norby Walters deal. You weren't involved with that lowlife were you? 
Burger: Oh, no sir. Getting paid while playing in college is against the rules. I wouldn't think of as­sociating with an agent or anything like that. 
NCAA: Well Mr. Burger, it says here that you have violated our sacred extra benefits rule, Some­thing about a free plane ride for a hunting trip. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Burger: I'm the outdoor type, you know. Jim Thompson and I needed a break and what better way than to integrate yourself with nature, become one with the great outdoors, and feel the beauty and harmony encompass you? 
NCAA: Nevertheless, you broke a rule and we don't stand for that kind disregard for our carefully constructed measures to ensure the amateurism of upstanding sport. After all, isn't taking money for a plane trip like taking money to play? Don't you think both actions make you, in essence, a profes­sional? 
Burger: You make it sound so harsh. It was just a little emotional release. We're rated sixth in the polls, and I have an NFL career in mind so I'm under some pressure. I just needed a break. 
Auburn: Aren't you being a bit hard on Jeff, here. The university has conducted thorough investiga­tions on this matter. We will deal with it as we see appropriate. 
NCAA: I'm sorry but the NCAA knows all too well about your fine 'investigations.' Bo Jackson is a fine example of . . . 
Auburn: Wait a minute, Bo was going for the Reisman and we needed him for publicity. 
NCAA: Well, how about the reports that Brent Fullwood couldn't make it to class after October his senior year, but still managed to make it to every football game? 
Auburn: That was a personal matter. 
NCAA: Anyway, I'm afraid we can no longer entrust you with investigations. If you had done your job, Mr. Burger wouldn't be eligible for foot­ball this season and I wouldn't have to deal with him now. I could be looking for basketball players posing on posters and other pressing issues. 
see BURGER, page 9 





