--------~.-~--~--~
-"""7"--~-~--.,-;;:-,..~..~...~-------------------­
((G:...LlCTlor-1 
Beaming
IACCENT: Encounters with a superstar 
Mostly sunny today with a high 
of 55 degrees. Sunny again 
tomorrow with a high of 58.

IVIEWPOINT: Our propensity to write 
VOL. XXI, NO. 51 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 
Accusations


Students to pay 
about SUB$1 ,400 in plan are leveled 
By JIM RILEY dent government to help foot By LIZ PANZICA News Editor the bill. Copy Editor "We want to include student Members of the Hall Presi­government and the class of­The Student Senate is con­
ducting an investigation into

dents' Council are scheduled to fices in this," said Winkler. meet today at 4 p.m. to form­"<The classes) each represent the Student Union Board activ­ulate a plan to pay the $1,400 in a fourth of the student body, so ities and their alleged viola­damages resulting from the they should take part in coming tions of the Student Govern­food fights earlier this semes­up with some of the money." ment Constitution, according 
to student government mem­

ter, said Susan Coene, Farley One member has suggested Hall co-president and member a fundraiser be held, according ber Mike Jaeger. of the HPC. to Winkler. "The first $1,400 Jaeger said he is "currently 
raised would go towards the putting together explana­
an HPC members met Friday bill," he said. "The extra would tion" of the senate's investiga­with John Goldrick, associate then go to a charity.'' tion. Jaeger would not give vice president for residence The $1,400 would be used to details of the investigation at 
life. Goldrick said the student cover ''the cost of broken this time, but he did say that a body as a whole should take re­dishes, food wasted . . . and full explanation will be issued sponsibility for the action be­paying the <University Food at the end of the week. 
cause about 800 students were Services) employees who Jaeger did explain, however, involved in the food fights, HPC stayed to clean up," HPC Co­that the investigation is an as­members said. Chairman Bob Daley said ear­sessment of the Constitution Attempts to reach Goldrick lier. pertaining to SUB activities. were unsuccessful. The damage bill was first He said, "Parts of the consti­Members of the HPC will presented to Goldrick by tution are not being obeyed by bring payment proposals to the William Hickey, dire~tor of SUB and the senate is now meeting this afternoon, said University f'ood Services, said aware of it." The senate would 
Coene. One plan will propose Jim Winkler, co-president of like to see SUB pay closer at­that the money be apportioned Alumni Hall and HPC member. tention to the Consitution, he between each hall, based on its Goldrick then contacted the co­said. size. chairmen of the HPC, Winkler At Monday's senate meeting 
In addition, she said, the HPC will ask the the classes and stu­
see DAMAGE, page 6 see SUB, page 4 
Co-ed dorms among residence task force topics 
By REGIS COCCIA advantages and disadvantages Student Body Vice President "We're finding a lot of stu­tiality affects a whole lot of dif­Assistant News Editor are," said Firth, task force Laurie Bink, one of several stu­dents saying (a co-ed dorm) ferent groups." 
chairman. "It's certainly been dent members on the task would be a nice option, but Bink said task force discus­Co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? an issue that has come up." force, said co-ed housing is when you ask them if they'd sions with both faculty and stu­The possibility has been dis­Firth said the task force is being seriously considered, but like to live there, or if they'd dents have been positive. "We 
cussed before but lately is get­gathering information for a only as a recommendation in like to have their hall con­have great discussio»s and the ting serious consideration from report it will present to Univer­the report to Father Malloy. verted, they say no,'' Bink said. faculty are very open-minded. a task force on residentiality, sity President Father Edward "Because we recommend it, "We're still gathering infor­It's very cooperative," she said Ann Firth, director of Malloy in March. "We won't doesn't mean it's going to hap­mation," she said. "W~'re said. "I think it's progressing residence life. come up with a conclusion until pen," she said, adding that stu­talking with students, other ad­quite well." 
"We are taking a serious look (we deliver the report)," Firth dent opinion on the issue has ministrators, a wide range of at that question and what the said. been mixed. people," Firth said. "Residen-see CO-ED, page 3 

Reagan 'a bit wiser,' nominates 
moderate Kennedy 
it," Reagan said in answer tion, he called for a biparti­to a reporter's question. san effort to fill the opening, "That's one for me." created by the retirement in 
The president announced June of Justice Lewis Powell. Kennedy's selection in ana­On Capitol Hill, the reac­tionally broadcast appear­tion echoed Reagan's at­ance in the White House tempt to overcome the bit­briefing room, accompanied terness generated by the by the judge, his wife, Mary, Bork and Ginsburg nomina­and their three children. tions. 
The choice appeared to be "I can't see any good rea­a clear effort to end a politi­son for anyone opposing this, cally embarrassing episode from Jesse Helms to Teddy for Reagan, who once said Kennedy," said Sen. Pete that winning Bork's con­Wilson, R-Calif. Sen. Ken­firmation was his No. 1 nedy, D-Mass., had led the domestic priority. fight against Bork, while 
Abandoning any pretense Sen. Helms, R-N.C., once of confrontation with the had threatened to filibuster Senate over filling the va­against Judge Kennedy as cancy, the president said: not sufficiently conserva­"The experience of the last tive. several months has made all Sen. Joseph Biden, 0-Del., of us a bit wiser." chairman of the Judiciary 
Invoking the spirit of the bicentennial of the Constitu-see JUDGE, page 4 Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, saying he was "a bit wiser" after two failed attempts to put a hardline conservative on the Su­preme Court, picked federal appeals judge Anthony Ken­nedy for the bench Wednes­day and dropped his par­tisan attacks against the Democratic-run Senate. 
Reagan said Kennedy, 51, has earned a reputation as "a courageous, tough but fair jurist" in his 12 years on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco. 
"He's popular with col­leagues of all political per­suasions," Reagan said. "And I know that he seems to be popular with many senators of varying political persuasions as well." 
Kennedy is considered to his earlier promise to give be a moderate conservative, the Senate a nominee that less ideologically rigid that "they'll object to just as Reagan's two earlier much" as Bork, his first can­nominees, Robert Bork, who didate, who was rejected on was defeated by the Senate, a 58-42 vote. and Douglas Ginsburg, who quit after revealing he had smoked marijuana. 
The new choice drew fa­vorable comments from Democratic and Republican senators across the political spectrum. 
Mindful of the problems he's had for more than four months in trying to fill the court opening, Reagan said he would not actually submit Kennedy's nomination until completion of a full-field FBI background check, which could take weeks. 
And, in a conciliatory tone after months of tough rheto­ric, the president abandoned 



·---~---~--~-------· 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1987 


In Brief 
SylvesterStallone,filming''Ramboiii''intheisraeli resort town of Elat, reportedly fled his hotel room Sunday night when security guards told him machine-gun fire had broken out nearby and he was in danger. But police and army spokesmen said there was no gunbattle in the area. Stallone's head security officer, Tony Maffatone, disputed the Israeli statements, saying he witnessed a four-minute battle in which hundreds of rounds of machine-gun fire were exchanged. "There is no question about it. This was a real battle with heavy machine-gun fire," Maffatone said. "The Israeli story is completely implausible." ­
Associated Press 


Of Interest 
Grace Hall debates continue at 9 p.m. in the Grace Hall pit. Tonight's topic will be: "The personal morals of presidential candidates do have a bearing on their suitability for high office." This debate will be judged by Professor John Roos of the government department. -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid Network continues its prayer vigil on the administration steps at 12:15 p.m. today. The vigil also will occur at the Center for Continuing Education on Friday at 12:15. -The Observer 
The Macintosh Users Group will meet at 7 p.m. in Room 226 Math and Computing Center. -The Oserver 
A Notre Dame Encounter reunion will be held at 10 p.m. in the Morrissey Hall party room. A short meeting will be held, followed by an ice cream social. -The Observer 
The last Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns will be tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. Professor Jack Dow, department of physics Freimann Professor, will speak on "High Speed Computing: Its Implications--So­cial As Well As Technical." -The Observer 
A concert by Lop.don Baroque will be held at 8 
p.m. in the library auditorium. The concert is sponsored by the department of music and is free. -The Observer 
Raymond Dunnett, professor of history at Purdue, will be speaking on "Traditional Gold Mining in Ghana: A Critique of the Marxist Model," at noon tomorrow in Room 242 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Roberto DeMatta, a professor in the anthropology department, will be speaking on "For a Sociology of the 'Latin American Tradition."' This lecture will be held at 4 p.m. today in 131 Decio. -The Observer 
The Great Hunger Clean-up is now forming committees for recruitment, fundraising, publicity and worksite selection in order to raise money to fight hunger. For more information, call Liz Durkin at 287-3876 or Sean Evers at 232-9112. -The Observer 
Applications for fashion show tryouts for the Black Cultural Arts Festival are due no later than Friday. For more information and an application, call Kim Steven­son at 283-4072. -The Observer 
Any junior interested in working on JPW, please leave name m the junior class office on the second floor of LaFor­tune Student Center by Friday. -The Observer 
"The Dragon and the King: The Iconography of Power in Olmec and Maza Art," a lecture given by P. David Joralemon, will be tonight at 7:30 in the Annenberg Auditorium. -The Observer 
Design Editor .. .. . .... Robert Luxem Design Aamtant . . . . . . . . . . Pete Lafleur Typesettera ............................ Mike Buc ...................................... Mark Ridgeway Newa Editor ....................... Scott Bearby Copy Editor ............. Kendra Lee Morrill Sporta CoP!/ Editor.... . .. . . . . . . . Pete Skiko Accent CopJI Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Accent La11out........ . ...... Michelle Dall 

De a.--(USPS 599 l~) il publilbed MODday throuah Friday C1c:epl durilll-Uld YKalion periods. nea..nw is publiahed by the ltlldenu of the UIIIYalky olNotre Dame Uld s.iat Mary's Collep. Sublcriptioaa -ybe purdlu­ed for S40 pcr r-r (S15 per--.)by wrililla ne ~. P.O. 101: Q, Notn o-c. ladlaaa 46556. 
ne a..--11 a _._ of ne ~Pna All rcprocluction riaJ111 are
_......._ 
TJipiats.. .. . . .. . ... . ............. Jenn Colon ............................................ Lynn Ewing ND Day Editor .. .. ....... Kathy McKee Photographer... . ..... John Studebaker ........................................ Heleni Korwek Viewpoint copJI editor ... Brian Broderick Viewpoint la11out .... Dee Dee Wroblewski SMC day editor........ . . . . . . . . . Karin Rader 


No humming allowed at NO football games 
With the advent of the last home football game of the season this Friday, I think that we shoul~ get athfe~ thinhgs cleared upf.tShe~iors11wm 
experience e1r 1ast ome game o e1r co ege careers. 
As usual, emotion and nostalgia will run ram­pant at the tailgaters and in the senior section. And wherever there is emotion and nostalgia at Notre Dame, there is the urge to sing our inspiring school songs. This, however, presents a problem. 
After almost four years, I now realize that I am one of the only fools who actually knows all of the words to the three main school songs. As an incoming freshman, I thought knowing the Victory March, Notre Dame Our Mother and the Hike Song were prerequisites for admission to the football games. 
To the contrary, opening one's ears at the football game will prove that most people begin to sing the chorus of the fight song well before it's time to break in with the familiar words. And if I did not know any better, I would think that the alma mater consisted of a bunch of melodic mumbles followed by an overwhelming "Looove thee Noootre Dame! ! " 
In the interest of all those who would like to get the words of these songs right once in their careers, I will give up the rest of my column to words of Notre Dame's school songs. Good luck, good times and good singing. 
Notre Dame VIctory March 
Rally sons of Notre Dame; Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true; Rah, rah for Notre Dame 
(This is the part people miss-KB) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of hear and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame. 
Chorus 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small. Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS
I I 
~t•r•tl"@l'§••~-!®ll)l;••n•r••lif·IAitD•••rn•u••rz••••••••••m•w•r•n•••n•••••u•••n•••~.,_,.tza u•J!JIIZiilsn•a 



ciEREMIAH SWEENEY 
Greatest 

DaUy and Nightly 
Selections

Specials with &ee munchies 
Phone 277-6368

Monday thra Friday 
6402 Grape Road

4:00.7:00 pm 
Across form University
.Monday tbra Saturday 
10:00 pm-Clo.e Park Mall on Grape Road 
.loin our "Around tlae World ..,,,.. 80Beers"Clu 
II

aa a II 1111-111 I I 7 I l I l 01112 I 
"' 
• _ 

M 
L. 
6 


ANO llloc.J, A NoTtE DAME ~TUl)E~'f' TO 
I 
SUI6 ••. 'THE' ALMA MA1'Eit. 

Notre Dame, Our Mother 
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the Gold and Blue, Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame. 
Hike Song 
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge offighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it's the hike, hike, hike of victory. The call to rise and strike. For Notre Dame's men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. 
Chorus 
Hark to the cheering, songs rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame. 


Thursday, November 12, 1987 The Observer page 3 
ComP-uter Science & MIS Students 




SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
U 
he rush of adrenaline. 
If you're a highly-motivated The surge of excite­person, an independent worker, ment. The flash of and an innovative thinker, you inspiration. Familiar have the right chemistry for fPPlings to talented IS profession-ACCENT. als at The Tra·;elers. And to the Now make the right move. promising graduates who'll join To The Travelers' ACCENT pro­us this year. gram. Where you'll find varied You've discovered these and valuable learning experiences. feelin~s in vour academic work. A supportive human environment 
w J 

Recognized them in the elegance and a sophisticated technical one. of advanced technology. And now And where you'll find plenty of you can share in them at The . opportunities to help move you Travelers, where the support is ahead. stronger, the environment more You'll also receive a com­sophisticated and the ap!'llications petitive salary, complete benefits 
';\~\·!'··. 
' 

~~ 
The Observer I John Studebaker

The CoIor of Money, Part II 
It looks like Tom Cruise may have some competition. Pangborn's Chris Kruse cues up the balls and practices some hustling of his own. 

Network fasts for divestment 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Members of the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network are "making some kind of sacrifice" by fasting this week before the meeting of the Board of Trustees, said Greg Magetti, head of the Anti-Apartheid Net­work. 
Fity-five people have signed up to fast for some period or miss a meal, Magetti noted. Those who have signed up in­clude undergraduates, graduate students and faculty. 
Three graduate students are abstaining completely from food during the week, he said. 
Curtis Brock has been on a diet of juices since Monday, while Carol Stewart and Cris Toffolo have only had water, Magetti said. Brock had to eat some rice on Tuesday because he was becoming ill from the fast. 
The fasters are staying in the LaFortune lobby during the day, he said. 
The fast will end at 12: 15 p.m. Friday during a vigil outside the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
The Board will decide on divesting from corporations doing business in South Africa this Friday at the CCE. 
Magetti said he doesn't feel the fast will influence the deci­sion of the Board of Trustees. 
"We're trying not to think of it in those terms because that's not why you should fast," he 
said.  "You shouldn't fast  to  
force  someone  to do someth­ 
ing."  There are a number of  

reasons for the fast, Magetti said. 
"First of all it is to share in a little way in the suffering," he said. "Secondly --and this is one reason why it's good to have other people join into the fast--it is to get as many people as possible to really think and to look deeper at what is going on in South Africa. 
"One thing we would like (the Trustees) to know," he added, "is that it affects us how they decide on this, that we take it seriously." 
Magetti noted that he came to Notre Dame because of the reputation for peace and jus­tice. 
"We (the Network) feel kind of a responsibility to make our University the best that it can be," Magetti said. 
Magetti originally felt the Board might divest because "they were waiting specifically to hear what (Rev. Leon) Sul­livan was going to say," but now feels the Board won't take action. 
Sullivan is the author of the Sullivan Principles, the guidelines regarding invest­ment in South Africa followed by many U.S. businesses and institutions, including Notre Dame. In May, Sullivan called for complete divestment from South African businesses because apartheid had not diminished. Magetti said he has heard comments from several people, including a Bel­gian journalist who inter­viewed Father Oliver Wil­liams, a member of the Board's investment committee, that it seemed the University would continue to invest. 
People who have written to University President Father Edward Malloy, Magetti noted, have received answers that "people of goodwill can dis­agree on the best means to end apartheid." 
more challenging. 

As a distinguished Comf.'ukr Science ot MJS graduate, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. A fast-paced, competitive program. Oftering tech· nicd and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS environ­ments in the financial ~ervices industry-including the largest IMS shLp, 14 IBM mamframe~ and a 37,00) terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed over 20,(XX) IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're develop­ing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer science, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
The Travelers Companies, Har<iord, Connecticut 06183. 
and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus generous relocation assistance tn our Hartford, Connecticut hom~ office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer­oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration shared by all. 
Find out more about signing up for The Travelers' interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, November 13th. Or, send your resume to: Gail L'Heureux, The Travelers Companies, 30-CR, CN87, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 


TheTravelersj
You're better off under the Umbrella~" 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

Co-ed 
continued from page 1 
Junior Bob Challenger said the task force is collecting views and opinions on coeduca­tional housing from faculty, alumni and students. 
Firth said each member of 

the task force is involved in col­
lecting information from a va­
riety of groups with input on 
the issues of residentiality. 
The 15-member task force 

was appointed last spring by 
Father David Tyson, vice pres­
ident for student affairs, to 
study six areas of residen­
tiality, a press release stated. 
The issues to be examined in­
clude: 
--the quality, sufficiency and variety of living facilities for undergraduate and graduate students; 
--the criteria for selection 

and evaluation of residence 
hall staffs; 
the structural and 

programmatic support avail­
able to hall staffs; 
-the standard of conduct for 

student residents; 
--the provision of services to meet the social, religious, cul­tural, volunteer and personal needs of resident students; 
--the relationship between residential life and the aca­demic mission of the Univer­sity. 
A survey on residentiality is­sues will be distributed to a sample of the student body next week to gauge student reac­tion, Challenger said. 
"Students will be able to voice their oplDlons on coeducational housing," be said. "The survey is important. It will be a very valuable tool to our report." 
Challenger said the task force is providing Father Mal­loy with information in order to identify key residentiality is­sues. 
"The purpose of the survey is not so much to suggest changes as to look closer at cer­tain issues,'' Challenger said. "Based on our report, (Malloy) will decide on what to investi­gate. Our report may have a direct bearing on his decision.'' 
--~----~ 
----~-------------------------------­

page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1987 
Wall Street greed reviewed 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER confidential information has Senior Staff Reporter been misappropriated. "There must be a proper connection "Insider trading is a very dif­between the action and the 
ficult thing to police," said harm," said Jarrell. 
Gregg Jarrell, speaking Mon­Jarrell cited several reasons 
day at Notre Dame's "Ethics for the rise of insider trading 
in the Investment Industry" in the 1980's. "Merger and ac­
symposium. quisition opportunities have in­
The former chief economist creased, and the anti-trust laws 
for the Securities and Ex­have been reduced and 
change Commission was one of loosened tremendously since 
the many featured speakers at Reagan," said Jarrell. 
the symposium. In response to the rise in in­
The symposium, which was sider trading, said Jarrell, 
held Monday through Wednes­there will be much more mon­
day, brought together the itoring of employees. He also 
country's top market said that business schools are 
specialists with top ethics going to have to think very hard 
people. about what has been until now 
Jarrell's discussion, titled a neglected area. "Business et­
"The Insider Trading Scan­hics will be more common," he 
dal," was the first of ten ses­said. 
sions in the symposium. Jarrell Dennis McCann, a professor 
defined insider trading as the of Christian ethics at DePaul 
wrongful use of confidential in­University, also spoke at this 
formation, he said. first session. McCann said that 
Among those benefitting in order to straighten out the from insider trading today, he trading problems, a massive, said, are take-over lawyers, in­coordinated and rational policy vestor lawyers, and tippees of investment is needed. (those who receive a tip). McCann said he is very 
Insider trading is difficult to skeptical about the ability of control, said Jarrell, because of the regulatory process to the number of people who are promote the public interest. "I exposed to sensitive informa­am very disturbed by what reg­tion. "If you look at the whole ulations actually produce and process, you have hundreds of of the gap between what lob­people who are in possession of byists ask for and what gets or see sensitive information produced," he said. before a deal is made," he said. McCann expressed concern "It is hard to have a piece of for the protection of the information in your hands and "average shareholder" -that not use it." person who holds stock but does 
It is also hard to control in­not have the resources to obtain 
sider trading because it is so the information that the in­
difficult to prove. In order for siders can get. 
a case to be taken into consid­Richard DeGeorge, a distin­
eration, it must be proven that guished professor of philoso-
She said, "Assessments are positive and nothing negative
SUB 
can come of it." continued from page 1 According to Blount, one past SUB was charged with viola­violation pertained to having tions of the student constitu­an assistant director of student tion. activities who was more active 
Janel Blount, SUB director, than the position originally was said, "There have been viola­meant to be. The assistant tions of the Student Govern­director made agendas in the ment Constitution if you inter­past, but Blount said, "It is not pret it strictly." Blount said, happening this year, but it did "SUB is being unfairly singled happen in the past." out.'' She said if one part of Stu­At an SUB Steering Commit­dent Government is being as­tee meeting Thursday, the sessed other organizations in members discussed ways to Student Government should be correct the problems outlined assessed also. by Jaeger at Monday night's 
Blount said she is not con­Student Senate meeting. Jeff cerned over the assessment. Woody, controller of SUB said, 
Judge 
continued from page 1 
Committee that will handle the nomination, said, "Kennedy seems on the surface like a mainstream conservative jus­tice who I can support, but I'm going to withhold final judg­ment until I know a lot more about him. 
During a 35-minute meeting phy at the University of Kansas, spoke at the second session, "The Ethical Issues." 
DeGeorge said that the ethi­cal climate of the firms on Wall Street is the ethical responsi­bility of top management. "If that climate has deteriorated it is their responsibility to come up with a solution, not the busi­ness schools or the govern­ment," he said. In the absence of such internal self-policing, he said, it is the right of the public to look elsewhere for remedies for what it perceives as harm to society. 
DeGeorge suggested a restructuring of the investment system. "If the roots of the abuses are personal greed, the system would be better off if arbitrageurs were well-paid for their work by their firms, but precluded from trading for themselves as one of the condi­tions of their employment," he said. 
Some radical suggestions to 
the ethical problems facing the 
market were posed by Father 
Drew Christiansen, professor 
of Christian ethics at Notre 
Dame. Christiansen said that 
we must find a strategy to 
make unproductive greed un­
profitable. Business success 
must be tied to providing a ser­
vice to the public, he said. 
Christiansen said that we 
also need to recruit older, more 
experienced people to the mar­
ket to serve more creatively in 
that area rather than to worry 
primarily about returns on in­
vestments, as many new, 
freshly educated graduates do. 
"Pat Cooke wanted us to bring specific recommendations to the senate at the next meeting." 
Woody said SUB would bring before the senate their inter­pretations of the constitution. He said they will also present their views on the violations of the constitution. 
SUB is upset with Jaeger's presentation of the violations at the senate meeting, according to Woody. He said, "Jaeger had never come to anyone on the board (SUB) and presented the violations he saw" before the meeting. 
1987-1988 Air Fares From Chicago 

Monday, Reagan asked Ken­nedy if there was anything in his background that would 
ow M 

prove embarrassing, said 
CARACAS $180 $340 

presidential spokesman Marlin 
ST. THOMAS 140 280

Fitzwater. He said there was nothing. 
ST. CROIX 140 280 

A graduate of Harvard Law 
LONDON 220 420 

School and resident of 
PARIS 240 478

Sacramento, Calif., Kennedy 
was named to the appeals court 
TEL AVIV 390 760 

by President Ford in 1975. Kennedy has written 
Departures available from most major citif.:s

opinions upholding capital punishment, the legality of 
29 East delaware Place

paying women less than men 
Chicago, IL 60611

in comparable jobs and the 
~UNCIL 

Council 'ftawl Semen (312)951-0585 sailors who engage in homo­sexual conduct. 
Navy's policy of discharging 

The Observer I Heleni Korwek
Roommate games 

Saint Mary's students Maureen Philibin and Therese Colby hosted "The Roommate Game" last night at Holy Cross Hall. The two emcees, also roommates, later announced that Jennifer Sante and Sheila Feeley (not shown) won the competition. 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 

SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R."S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 

219-284-9190 

I PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES HAS BEEN A BEARING ON THEIR SUITABILITY § FOR HIGH OFFICE." ~ JUDGE-PROFESSOR JOHN ROOS§ 

NO GOVERNMENT DEPT.~ WHERE: GRACE HALL PIT WHEN: TONIGHT, 9:00 PM ***COMPLIMENTARY REFRESHMENTS, NIGHTLY 8 RAFFLE*** 8
II I ~
-COME IN AND JOIN IN THE GROWING § EXCELLENCE OF THE GRACE HALL DEBATES. ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~J"J"...o-~J"J"J"J"....o-""J'".rJ".r.,_,._,_,_,._,.,.,..,.,..,..._,..,.,._,.,..._,._,...r.,.....r...o-J"..r..rJ"..r-'-' R 

Thursday, November 12, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
Notre Dam&Saint Mary's phone books on the way 
By DAN MURPHY or the beginning of November, leges and universities across Senior Steve Clark said he his summer work. He said the News Staff according to the office. the country. The sale of ad­heard about University Direc­job was challenging and some­The Student Union Board will vertising space in the yellow tories last February through times intimidating, but he The Notre Dame-Saint hand out 5,500 directories on­pages section of the directories Career and Placement Ser­quickly learned that his poten­Mary's telephone directories and off-campus as soon as the generates revenue for Univer­vices. He was interviewed and tial to make money was "limit­are on their way and should be truckload of books arrives. sity Directories and helps stu­hired to sell ads during the less." Clark said his team sold distributed to students, faculty The office said the books dents earn money during the summer as part of a six person ads to over 100 businesses that and staff by the end of this were not considered late. summer, according to the of­team. The team spent six had previously advertised in week. University Directories, the fice. weeks selling ads to businesses the directory. He also 
The University Publications Chapel Hill, N.C., company re­serving the Notre Dame-Saint developed 40 new accounts in and Graphics Services office sponsible for publishing the During the summer, teams of Mary's community and two the South Bend-Mishawaka said the phone books currently phone books, prints them free students recruited by Univer­weeks selling ads to businesses region, Clark said. are in transit between North of charge for Notre Dame and sity Directories solicit ads around Western Michigan Uni­University Directories will 
Carolina and South Bend. Saint Mary's, according to the from local community busi­versity, he said. tentatively be recruiting on the 
The directories, published pubications and graphics of­nesses. Purchased ads appear Clark said he worked on a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's annually, are normally dis­fice. Last year the company in the directories published the straight commission basis and campuses this February, ac­tributed at the end of October published directories for 49 col-following fall. is still receiving checks from cording to current schedules. 
,, 
.

Surprise snowfall F "' buries East Coast . 
Associated Press a little overtime," said Vito 
Turso, spokesman for the New 
More than a half-foot of snow York City sanitation depart­piled up in parts of the North­ment which called in 800 east and temperatures workers on their day off. swooped into the 30s in the However, police reported, South on Wednesday as wintry many drivers were off slick weather arrived more than a roads because of the Veterans month early and caused dozens Day holiday. Schools, banks of accidents that killed at least and local, state and federal six people. government offices were 
Snowfall ranged from up to closed and kept people at home. two inches in the mountains of In the Washington, D.C., North Carolina to seven to nine area, where temperatures inches in the Pocono Mountains reached 72 on Monday, seven of northeastern Pennsylvania. inches of snow fell by 2 p.m., Up to six inches fell in the with a predicted 16 inches pos­Catskill Mountains of New sible, blanketing the sites of York and Berkshire Mountains Veterans Day activities at the of Massachusetts. Arlington National Cemetery 
"This is like Siberia," said in Virginia and at the Vietnam Trooper Joseph Perechinsky at Veterans Memorial. the State Police barracks in Towanda, Pa. "It is snowing National Weather Service and blowing and the flag is spokesman Ed Schoenberg blowing straight out." said the snowfall broke the 1967 
The Observer I Heleni Korwek 

Sections of major highways record when the total for the 
in the metropolitan areas of entire month was 6.9 inches. A Saint Mary's "baby bio" class ends a period of of the matter. The students have been dissecting the Baltimore, New York and The snow led first lady Nancy studying their fetal pigs by really getting to the "heart" animals for the past month. Richmond, Va., were shut Reagan to cancel a planned trip 
down briefly Wednesday mor­to New York City to attend a ning to allow highway crews to concert at Carnegie Hall by 
Howitzer taken for a joy ride 
sand and salt bridges, intersec­pianist Vladimir Feltsman. tions and overpasses. School sessions and many Associated Press Fort Carson, near Colorado corted it to Denver to assure "We're welcoming the win­scheduled events were can­Springs. safe travel," Millar said. The 
BEER WINES Lite 24 cans &7.99 Bartles & James 4 pack $2.99 
r-----~~--------------------------------------------~~--~,
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS

Busch 24 cans $5.99 Matilda Bay 4 pack $2.59 Meister Brau 24 cans $4.99 Carlo Rossi 4 liters $4.99
Stroh's 30 pack $7.79 • Sutter Home White Zinfadel 750 ml $3.99
Grape Rd. 

Old Milwaukee 24 cans $5.99 Mateus 750 ml $2.99 Budweiser 24 cans $8.57 
Mi•Sh J d 

Bud Light 24 cans $8.57 t IMPORTS
n • 

Miller Draft 24 cans $7.99 Hours: Red Stripe 6 pack(nr) $4.99 Blatz 24 cans $S.99 LaBatt's 6 pack(nr) $2.99 Michelob 24 bottles $9.99 Mon.-Thurs. 9-10 pm. Red Horse Malt 16 oz. bottle 59 cents 
Michelob light 24 bottles $9.99 Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. 
TRY OUR NEW ENTRANCE QFF EDISON RD.
Miller 24 cans $7.89 272-2274 Hammes 24 cans $5.99 QUARTS 
LIQUOR
Budweiser $10.99 
Glen Moore Vodka 1.75 liters $7.99
Bud Lite $10.99 
Don Q Rum 1.75 liters $10.79
Busch $9.99 
Burnett's Gin 1.75 liters $9.99

RETURNABLES Rhinelander 24 bottles $3.99 
Canadian Mist 1.75 liters $10.99 Budweiser 24 bottles $7.99 Cutty's Sark 1.75 liters $17.99 Bud Lite 24 bottles $7.99 Malibu Rum 750 ml $6.59 KEGS Arrow Flavored Schnapps 750 ml $5.99 Budweiser 15.6 gal $28.99 
Jack Daniels 750 ml $9.99 Busch 15.6 gal $26.69 
--Old_M_il_wa-uk-ee-15-.6-ga-1$2-3.-99-----------------CALL fQR SYR PARTJfS 
Pork chop 

ter with a little excitement and celled. 

IJC=fl{g#J!Rl!J~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
DENVER A self-propelled, 27-ton Army artillery piece dubbed "Clyde" was stolen  The incident began shortly after 1 a.m. when the post was notified that the M-109 howit­ howitzer ran out of gasoline at an intersection in a residential neighborhood.  
from Fort Carson early Wed­nesday and driven about 70 miles along Interstate 25 before it ran out of fuel in Denver.  zer, measuring 12 feet high and six feet wide, was moving on ·.1-25 toward Denver, Millar said.  A woman who lives near the intersection, about six or seven miles from downtown Denver,  
Two men inside, a young sol­dier and a civilian, were ar­rested. The tracked 155mm howit­ The $758,000 vehicle, which can fire shells weighing around 90 pounds, was traveling only with small directional head­ called the incident scary. "I always thought we had se­curity in these United States. But anything can happen,"  
zer, "a big cannon on tracks," was not carrying ammunition, said Sgt. John Millar, an Army public information officer at  lights that only show up faintly, Millar said. Officers from the Colorado State Patrol "more or less es- said Maria Pena. "You go to sleep, you wake up in the mor­ning and find this thing right in front of your doorstep."  



----·--~----~--------------------------­

page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1987 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega declared Wednesday his gov­ernment is fully committed to complying with the Central America peace agreement and he renewed his offer to hold peace talks with the United States. 
"Nicaragua is ready to com­ply 100 percent with the agree­ment," Ortega declared in a dramatic hour-long appearance before the General Assembly of the Organization of American States during his first visit to Washington in eight years. Ortega wore a con­servative gray suit instead of his usual outfit for public ap­pearances --combat fatigues. 
He thus disputed President Reagan's charge before the same audience on Monday that Nicaragua is "nowhere near" meeting its obligations. 
An overflow crowd filled the 
main meeting room at OAS 
headquarters. 
In the standing-room-only crowd were all six members of the Contra leadership; they lis­tened intently as Ortega spoke. Mterward, one of the most vet­eran Contra leaders, Adolfo Calero, called Ortega's speech "lengthy, boring and without real substance." 
Ortega's call for a direct dialogue with the United States was rejected immediately by the U.S. ambassador to the OAS, Richard McCormack, who said that Reagan had laid out strict conditions for re­opening diplomatic contacts with Sandinista officials. 
Ortega said that although Nicaragua has taken a number of steps to meet its commit­ments under the regional peace agreement he signed last Au­gust, the United States has un­dercut the accord by sending weapons and other equipment on 140 resupply flights to the country's Contra rebels since then. 
He said the weapons include ground-to-air missiles which are threatening domestic and international air traffic in Nicaragua. U.S. spy flights also have continued, he said. 
The peace agreement was signed by Nicaragua and four Central American neighbors -­Guatemala, El Salvador, Hon­duras and Costa Rica. 
Soviets oust communist boss 
Associated Press the party's Central Committee, domestic reform in a Nov. 2 
Yeltsin criticized the style of speech that appeared to be di­
MOSCOW Boris Yeltsin, a the leadership and the speed rected at Yeltsin and others de­former protege of Mikhail Gor­with which the Soviet leader's manding quicker implementa­bachev who criticized the slow reform program was being im­tion of reforms. pace of the Soviet leader's plemented. He then offered to reform drive, was dismissed resign. It was not clear whether "It should be clear that one Wednesday as Moscow Com­he criticized Gorbachev. cannot leap over essential munist Party boss. Gorbachev's position on stages and try to accomplish 
His departure appeared to be Yeltsin's removal was not everything in one go," Gorbac­a setback for Gorbachev's known, but the move seemed hev said. "Reconstruction campaign for franker criticism certain to strengthen the hand carries on the revolutionary of problems in Soviet society, of party conservatives. cause, and today it is ab­and could herald a more con­The official Tass news solutely essential to master the servative approach to the agency said the Moscow party skill of exercising revolution­country's economic woes. committee on Wednesday ary self-restraint." 
It was not immediately clear found Yeltsin guilty of "major Yeltsin, who was named to a whether Yeltsin's removal shortcomings" in his work as candidate, or non-voting, seat marked a personal defeat for party chief and relieved him of on the Politburo in February Gorbachev. In a highly unusual his duties. 1986, reportedly drew a rebuke move, Gorbachev attended the It said the meeting also ap­after his speech last month Moscow Communist Party proved a decision made at the from Yegor Ligachev, the committee meeting at which October Central Committee Kremlin's No. 2 man and a Yeltsin was ousted, indicating meeting to brand Yeltsin's cri­reputed conservative force in that he had a hand in the deci­tical speech "politically er­the Politburo. sion. roneous." 
Yeltsin, who as Moscow Yeltsin was succeeded by Ligachev also took part in the party chief held one of the top Lev Zaikov, 63, a member of Moscow party meeting, Tass party posts in the country, was the 13-man ruling Politburo said, without providing details. the highest-ranking Gorbachev who once headed the Commu­Despite the Kremlin's policy protege to lose his job since nist Party apparatus in of "glasnost" or openness, Gorbachev became the Soviet Leningrad, the Soviet Union's party sessions like the plenum Communist Party chief in largest city after Moscow. of the Moscow city committee March 1985. Tass said Gorbachev spoke and October's Central Commit­
The 56-year-old Yeltsin had at Wednesday's Moscow party tee meeting are usually re­
been among the most vocal meeting, but gave no details. It ported in general terms. 
supporters of Gorbachev's was not known when Gorbac­Yeltsin, former party boss of 
plans for "perestroika," the hev last attended a meeting of the industrial city of 
ambitious restructuring of the the committee. Sverdlovsk in the Urals, was 
Soviet economy and society. Gorbachev criticized appointed Moscow party chief 
But at an Oct. 21 meeting of "headstrong" advocates of in December 1985. 
~-----­
Introducing Nightclub Night at Theodore's with 
THE MAGIC AND COMEDY OF 
BOB GARNER 
El]oy a nightclub atmosphere with your friends while your class officers serve you refreshments from the full food and drink bar. 
O.J. FOLLOWING SHOW Thursday, Nov. 12 9:00pm (doors open at 8:30 pm) 
Sponsored by SUB, Class of '89,'90, and '91 

IT'S UNIVERSITY NIGHT 
at 

UIICI.ES' IIISII ,UI 
4609 Grape Road 
J.M.S. Plaza Mishawaka 

~---THIS THURSDAy_ __. 25 cent DRAFT BEERS 50 cent FLAVORED 
SCHNAPPS 

Damage 
continued from page 1 
said. 
HPC members said Goldrick told them that the University usually does cover minor damage charges, but because this was such a large amount, the University didn't want to set a precedent by paying the bill. 
HPC members said Goldrick told them that students definitely would have to pay the damages, so the administra­tion wanted to have the stu­dents involved in the decision about how the damages would be assessed. 
Some HPC members ex­pressed concern that a prece­dent might be set in which the student body as a whole could be assessed damages for the actions of only some students. 
The HPC said University of­ficials collected ID cards from 16 or 17 students during the food fight. Each has already paid a fine to the University, Coene said. But these are disciplinary fines, and this money will not be applied to the $1,400 of da­mages, she said. 
Viewpoint

Thursday, November 12, 1987 page 7 
Society suffers from a love of words 
While filling out applications for graduate schools, I ran across someth­ing interesting in the directions for completing the application. In the sec­tion for writing a personal statement the admissions board of this particular university advises the applicant that "brevity is the soul of wit." 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
My first reaction was one of disdain. Here I am filling out a tedious, time­consuming application for graduate school and I learn that "brevity is the soul of wit?" These people have just asked me for everything but my shoe size and now I am asked to be brief in my personal statement. Okay, so hypocrisy extends beyond the world of 
Drunk driving hurts everyone 

Dear Editor: 
Picture your best friend. Remember all the things you've done together and all the great times you've had. Remem­ber the parties, the football games, days playing basketball and nights at the bars. Remember the long talks; the things you told him that you couldn't tell anyone else. Remember the times when you were depressed, angry or sad and he was there for you. Remember all the times you were just glad he was around. 
Now imagine walking home from one of those great times and watching as your best friend is killed by a swerving car. Imagine your devastation when you realize that your best friend has been taken from you by the senseless actions of a drunk driver. Imagine your best friend gone forever. No more great times, no more long talks, no more times together. Only memories and a lot of "what-ifs." Now picture the other side. Imagine being at a party or the bars and it's time to go home. Im­agine that you've had a couple of beers but think you're o.k. to drive. Maybe the rest of the carload has been drink­ing too and you're their only way home. 
Doonesbury 
Notre Dame. This comes as no surprise to most of us. 
Then I looked at the quote more closely and realized that nothing in our world is very brief and that wit is sorely lacking in any type of communication. Evidence for this observation is appar­ent by simply examining our very own campus publications. 
Take for example the self-indulgent, moralistic drivel put out by the pseudo­intellectuals on this campus known as "Common Sense." Not only does this publication give new meanings to the word tedious, but its lack of wit is only compensated by its ability to induce narcosis. (I am sure Ann Pettifer will admire my choice of vocabulary in describing her tiresome rag, my only regret is not commenting on the female genitalia aspects of Vatican II. I know that would really peak her interests). Mercifully this publication is thrust upon us only once a month. 
Scholastic's attempts at wit have been few and far between. Not only are they long and witless, but the magazine itself lacks any soul. When a maga­zine's sole attempt at humor consists of a comic strip from the juvenile Matt Groenig, then we have a definite prob­lem in defining the terms. 
What is really disappointing about Scholastic is that it takes itself and its "investigative journalism" so serious­ly. Do these people really think they are proving anything? Obviously the people behind the current "Student Sur­vey" are responsible for the path taken by Scholastic. 
I would be remiss to exclude our own precious Observer which brings to us weekly a mindspill from a certain cleric who takes tedious and long writing one step too far into the realm of the absurd. And, of course, we are 
Imagine driving along, talking about the great time you've just had, and seeing the person in the road too late. Try to imagine the utter horror you would feel knowing that you have just hit and killed someone, someone's best friend. 
For the ten of us, the scene we describe requires no imagination. It happened. On December 6, 1986, last year, our best friend Mike Cogswell was killed when someone, who on that particular night had too much to drink, got behind the wheel and didn't see Mike in time. In an instant our best friend was gone. 
It's hard to express in words the feelings of shock, devastation and grief that accompanied the first few hours after the accident. In the days that fol­lowed we tried to deal with our sense of loss as we consoled each other, our friends and Mike's family. Traveling to his home at Syracuse, participating in the funeral and burying Mike will al­ways live with us as the most difficult thing we've ever done. The week was a nightmare. 
Returning home to ND we all began to think about the accident. We heard good things about the driver, what a nice guy he was. We realized that it could have been any of us driving that car. That all of us have at one time or another, driven having had a few 

MR. '3LACK­NO WAY, M&Yel?.? YOUR 60V!3RJ-IOR! PIJT 
urrte P/?tJT'&5T NOT WITH HIM 
1'50V8R. TIM& TH/3 /A/HOle ON/ 
WCOM/3 / /A/0/?UJ OUT. JIJATCH­
I 

"'rrr IN6! 
YOU'Re &OING 7D HAV/3 TO 00 8U'51N/355 /A/ITH/rl/3, 60V&mOR! I HAT/3 70 501./NO SMU6, !JUT fROM /AJHI3/(/;. I'M SITTING ... 
\ 

all aware of the deep abiding interest that our faithful Viewpoint editor in­spires when he prints those provocative columns written by Joe Unknown con­cerning the relief efforts contributed to the Nicaraugan civil war. 
Nothing is really brief anymore. Anywhere from philosophy class to Presidential elections, we are stuck in a malaise of long-winded, unamusing events in our daily lives. If brevity is really the soul of wit, then our country is suffering through a very somber era. Can anything be done or said in a clever, succinct fashion? My experi­ences here on this campus and obser­vations of the outside world have shown to me a general lack of wit or clarity in today's society. The Bard must be turning in his grave. 
Brian Broderick is a senior Govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint 
~nlumnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
drinks. We vowed to stop drinking and driving and, hopefully, touch other people with the same message. 
The message is don't let it happen again. Don't drink and drive. Don't let your friends drink and drive. If some­one had been a designated driver on December 6 our best friend would still be alive. No good time is worth saying 


Garry Trudeau 

goodbye forever to someone you love. Picture your best friend. 
The roommates of Michael Cogswell 
Mark Dillon Tom Dugard Chris Campilii Sonny Nunes Justin Foley Chuck Butler Tom Hynes Paul Conaty Rob Lewis Marty M onoco 
Quote of the Day 
"The majority of men are subjec­tive towards themselves and ob­jective towards all others, terribly objective sometimes-but the real task is in fact to be objective towards oneself and subjective towards all others." 
Soren Kierkegaard The Journals of Klerkegaard 
Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................................. Kevin Becker Su$1,..s Manager ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor .Mark Pankowski Adverflslng Design Manegei........... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
N-s Editor .. . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Chris Bednarski Advettislng Maneger.................. Melinda Chapleau 
N-s Editor ........................................... Jim Ailey ProductJon Managflr...................... Melissa Warnke 
Viewpoint Editor. . ..... Chris Murphy Projects Manager... . . . .... Mark Mclaugh~n
The Qbeerver is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University ol Sysl8ms Manager . .. ...... Shawn SextonNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coltege. It does not necessarily reftecl the potion of Sports Editor. . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . Dennis Corrigan 
Controller..... . . . ... Tracy Schinclele
the administration of either insti1ution. The News is reported u accurately and objeCtively as Accent Editor......... .... Michael Naughton 
Saint Mery's Editor ...... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager..... . ........ Laura Stanton
possible. UnSIQned editorials represent the opinion ol the mlljonty of the Editoriel Board Commentanes. leiters and the Inside Column present the ~s of lhetr authors. Column space 
Photo Editor.. . . . . . . . .Jim Carroll 

1s ava11able to all members of the school community, and the free exprnsion ol varymg opnions on campus. through leiters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1988 

----------~---~~--------------------------~-­
: ( 
Thursday, November 12, 1987 
Ace 
Spyro Gyra spirals to succ cess 
The owner of the club where ing vocals in their music. Be­a new dimension in the sound 
B
KIM YURATOVAC himself. Beckenstein and assistant accent editor Beckenstein's band was ckenstein acknowledges that of the group. "He has made a Calandra had collaborated on playing, was "obnoxiously per­without vocals, the group can much larger contribution than the earlier albums, but Be­ands emerge and disin­sistant" that the band choose a not merge Into the mainstream a percussionist has ever made 
ckenstein was prepared for the tegrate without the blink of name, so Beckensteln of pop music. on our albums," noted Be­solo task because in recent even a serious music lover's responded with an obnoxious When asked if the group in­ckenstein, "that tended to send 
years, he had concentrated on eye. It is quite a feat for a title. tends to ever move Into the things in that percussion, Latin­the production of Spyro Gyra single band to secure a follow­"It's spelled incorrectly," said mainstream of pop music, Be­oriented direction." while Calandra guided the ef­Beckenstein, "because the ckenstein answered, "To truly The group recently added
ing for ten years. Spyro Qyra forts of other bands which the has achieved just that kind of owner came back the next move to the mainstream of bassist Roberto Vally to replace duo produced. success, hard-earned and long week and advertised with that pop music, the band would Kim Stone, who left the band 
Beckenstein is satisfied with 
name. He made a spelling er­absolutely have to have vocals. to pursue personal interests.
lasting. the group's success. "I think "We've been very successful ror, instead of using i's, he There's no exception to that "Kim was a great bass 
it's an amazing success. For a playing music we like," said used y's. And we stuck with the rule. We have no plans to put player, "said Beckenstein,"but 
group that makes a few com­Beckenstein in a phone inter­spelling error." vocals on our records so I there are a lot of other bass 
promises as we do, it's as­view, "we've managed to sus­Along with the spelling error, guess the answer to that ques­players out there and we're the tounding." Beckenstein doesn't tain a steady growth for ten the success that was born in tion is no." kind of group that great bass mind not getting the recogni­
years. It's put us in a great the Tuesday night jams stuck The group's unique rendi­players want to play in, so tion and hype that inflate some place. I'm not looking to go with the group. Since then, the tions of 1987 jazz have earned when it came to looking for a bands to stardom. For Be-:' them the respect of the music
quadruple platinum next year band has released 11 albums replacement for Kim, there was ckenstein, the success of Spyro or be a huge sensation, I'm that have crossed the musical world. They are now embarking no shortage of really great 
Gyra depends on pursuing looking to be around twenty barriers between jazz, pop and people. And Roberto is a great
on a two-week tour of Europe, music they enjoy and "defying years from now." rock--although the primary where they have already estab­bass player." definition" to create "contem­Beckenstein and his old focus of the group has been on lished a following, especially in The untimely death of porary, electric instrumentals." friend Jeremy Hall started the jazz. Austria, Switzerland and Ger­producer Rich Calandra left Spyro Gyra will be in concert group in Buffalo, New York in "To some extent, we're rock many. Beckenstein to produce 
at the Morris Civic Auditorium 1975, billing themselves as people's favorite jazz group Members now consist of Be­"Stories Without Words" by 
November 18 at 8 p.m. "Jazz On Tuesday." The name and jazz people's favorite rock ckenstein, Tom Schuman on Spyro Gyra was meant to be a group," noted Beckenstein. keyboards, Dave Samuels on joke. "It's a name I first ran The group's most recent al­vibraphone, Julio Fernandez on across in a biology textbook," bum, "Stories Without Words," guitars, Rich Morales on said Beckenstein, "It's a kind of released this August, has been drums, Manalo Badrena on 
Close encounter~
algae, nothing special unless a success. The title is descrip­percussion and Robert Vally on you really like algae. It was tive of a group which has never bass. flippant. It was a joke." and does not intend on includ-Badrena's addition has added 
KATHY SCARBECK until Crosby's death in 1977. Murphy received an invitation
accent writer from the Crosbys to visit them }\ fter Bing Crosby died, his at their home in California. On .nwife Catherine wrote Rever­New Year's Day in 1969 Murphy end Robert Murphy saying, "I found himself in the Crosby hope you'll always know how household telling stories to a special you were to Bing." young Mary Crosby who sat on 
l i 
~­

-.. Ray Bolger, who played the his knees. Scarecrow in "The Wizard of "How many guys do you 
Oz," gave Murphy a picture know who've had the girl who with the following inscription: "I shot J.R. sit on their lap?" haven't got a brain but I've got Murphy asks, referring to the a friend--you. Please pray for actress' former role on "Dal­
I 
las".
me."

.~ 
On a Friday afternoon last Murphy first met Bob Hope month, a representative from later that year when he was Hope Enterprises invited able to do a favor for the com­Murphy to come to Bob Hope's edian, and the two have met show in Chicago. So Murphy again on two or three separate and three companions, occasions. notebooks and camera in tow, When Myrphy heard that piled into a car and headed for Hope was going to perform in an encounter with a show busi­Chicago in early October, he ness legend. wrote the comedian a letter 
I 
Murphy, who has just relating his friendship with finished a five and a half year Crosby, who had died ten years stint as vocation director for ago that month. Some time the diocese of Kansas Clty.-St. later, Murphy received a call Joseph In Missouri, is currently from a representative for Hope taking part in a sebatical pro­Enterprises. The man said that gram for priests at Holy Cross he could meet with Hope for a Junior College. At the Center few minutes after that eve­
for Continuing Formation in ning's show. Someone named Ministry, participants re­Mark Anthony worked for Hope examine what they learned in and was to insure that he could 
the seminary core curriculum get backsta~e. and apply It after having years of practical experience as So when Murphy and his priests. companions entered the Old 

During the trip to the Windy Chicago Theater later that City, Murphy entertained his night, they were rather travel companions with stories surprised to discover Mark An­about his show business con­thony, wine glass in hand, haw­tacts. While he was still in high king programs in the lobby. He school, Murph) perforrned with explained to the group that he a band that played music made didn't have tickets for them but popular by Bing Crosby. promised to "sneak" the four in
Bill Watterson 

He credits Crosby's "positive, after the show started. upbeat" portrayal of a priest in After a few late comers pur­the movie "The Bells of St. chased the last of his pro­Mary's" with influencing his grams, Mark Anthony ushered decision to enter the seminary. his guests through a side exit Murphy then wrote the actor, and down a dimly lit alley. Two telling Crosby of his impres­burly security guards, clad in sions. pressed slacks and ill-fitting 
"Bing was flattered that his suit jackets, were posted befo~ portrayal had an effect on the the stage door. life of a seminarian," Murphy Mark Anthony exchanged 
says. The two began corres­greetings with the expression­ponding and exchanging phone less pair and led his group calls In 1965 and continued through the door and down a 

page 8-9


series of hallways Into the theater. Anthony then directed his guests to take four empty seats in the eighth row. 
On stage a plump woman in a black sequined dress was singing a piece written by lr· ving Berlin. The younger mem­bers of Murphy's group soon recognized her as Rosemary Clooney, the lady in the paper towel commercials. ("Extra value is what you get. when you buy Coronet.") Older audi­ence members remembered her as Bing Crosby's co-star In the fllm classic "White Christmas." 
During the Intermission which followed Clooney's per­formance, a theater manager approached Murphy's group and demanded to see their tickets. Somehow she found out that the four hadn't paid the $27.50 admission charge; the woman made it clear that they'd either have to pay or leave the theater, regardless of whether Hope had invited them. 
But Mark Anthony had other plans, he directed the group backstage. "You don't have to have a ticket." Anthony an­nounced as he set up four chairs In the stage wings, "You can stay right here." 
"Backstage we can have whoever the hell we want." he continued, apparently undis­turbed by the white collars and black suits worn by two 0f his guests. 
"Really?" Father Murphy asked, unfazed. "God damn right," Anthony returned, looking rather proud of him­self. 
"Two minutes, gentleman," called out the stage manager, as he paced backstage. Murphy's group listened to the orchestra tune up. They were so close to the musicians that they could read the notes on the sheet music. Someone brought them Dixie cups fllled with water. 
And then they met him. The show business legend came backstage and looked rather quizzically at the pair of priests and two students sitting in the wings. 
Murphy took the initiative and shook Hope's hand, reminding the comedian of their prior meetings. The other members of the group followed his lead and quickly mumbled Introductions. 
The meeting couldn't have lasted more than a few minutes before the curtain went up and Hope walked on stage. During his performance Hope danced and sang with an agility that belied his 84 years. 
And then there were the jokes. Hope hit everything from Reagan to religion to his age: 
"Are you a Jehovah's wit­ness? Hell no, I didn't even see the accident." 
"My wife's really Catholic. She thinks Oral Roberts is a den­tist." 
"When I get up In the mor­ning, I don't feel my age. In fact. I don't feel anything until noon and then I take a nap." 
After the performance, Murphy and his companions met with Hope again and took some pictures. A stage hand told the comedian that Sammy Davis, Jr. had called the theater just a few minutes before the show ended. Then, as Hope's four visitors were about to ask for a group photo, Rosemary Clooney glided backstage. 
Murphy and his friends watched the pair of screen legends go upstairs to Hope's dressing room. Although the four didn't get as many pic­tures as they would have liked, it was still an unforgettable evening. Exiting through the stage door, they left the theater--thanking Bob for the memories. 

'Right to Know': 
Should public officials' past activities be held against them? 
Compiled by Cara Anthony and Kathryn Ellis Photos by Zoltan Ury "Smoking marijuana wouldn't necessarily affect how one would be as a Supreme Court justice. Ginsburg lied about other things, though, like how many cases he tried for the country. It's sad for the people involved that these things are found out, but It's bet­ter In the long run for our country." 
Kate Murray Junior 



"A prospective candidate's past matters more when It reflects di­rectly back on the job he would do. In Bork's case, his past had a lot do with how we think he would function as a justice." 
Dennis Hughes 
Senior 
"If a candidate made a mistake before he was a public figure, It shouldn't be held against him, but If It happened during his career, as In the case ofGary Hart, he should have known that It would be detrimental to his career." 
Mimi Suba Freshman 



"People tend to blow small things out of proportion. Everyone can make a mistake once In a while but If they did It on a constant basis and they knew It was wrong, the mistake should be made public." 
Joe Watson Sophomore 
"You elect a candidate for who he Is today, not for who he was yes­terday. 1 think people want to know about a candidate's past so theycan criticize him and feel like good citizens." Dan Beaton · Freshman 



"I think the press Is going a little too far now. Time has a lot to do with it. If questionable behavior happened a long time ago, then 'it's not Important, but If It hap­pened recently It's worth bringing out Into the open." 
Becky Besser Sophomore 
"Well, 1 think in the case of the judges, what's at stake Is their past record as judges, not their past record as college students. Everyone has something they don't want other people to know." 
John Uhran Sophomore 



"I think the press Is carrying It too far because what the can­didate did In the past Is Irrelevant to what's going on now and In the future. The media didn't handle It well-they blew It way out of proportion." 
Stephanie Burke 
Junior 


..--­
-
page 10 The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1987 
Tile a....-ttotr. Oeme office, located on the third floof of Lafortune Stu­d.nt c.ntw, eccepta claalfled .twftl..nglmm 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday thnJugtt Frtdey. n.a....-5elnt Mery'1l office, located on the third floor of Hegpr Collge Center, eccepts c:IM8Ifleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtdey. o-dllne for next-day clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
Classifieds be pi'IIPMI, either In perwon ~ by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:tw.:ten per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
·······n:PiNGwoRo PFiOCE'SSiNG······ 
CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
TYPING 277-11131 or 237·11149 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. 
Soon the Prophecies of the invasion of Israel and the Great Earthquake will be funilled (cf. Ezekiel38, Daniel12). Form­ing a community, sen-sufficient in fOOd and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, Indiana 46634· 4475 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
MRS.COKER,2~7009 
Chimes is now accepting plays, poems, and short stories. Submij to Chimes, Engl. Dept. Am 303 Madeleva Hall 
BED AND BREAKFAST N.D. & S.M.C. Parents 2 nights minimum 12 minutes from campus 272·5989 
SENIORS, STORM THE FIELD AFTER THE GAME Ill 
···········u~~int~~h ..ue;·:~..o~;;;;;·········· 
The Macintosh User's Group will be meeting tonight in Am. 226 of the Math-Computing Center. Adiobe 1~ lustrator will be demonstratad and blank disks will be sold, among other things ... 
................................................................ 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST ·Gold Cross and Chain Sentimental Value ··Please call Doug 2327 
Lost: TIME WALKMAN. Please return to 313 Howard or the Rock. 
COMPUTER DISKETTES LOST BLUE AND YELLOW 2891213 
LOST 3 keys on white Ireland keyring. Call 3857 
................................................................ 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST Timex watch­·gold face with broken silver and golc band REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD Call Deanna at 3516 
................................................................ 
LOST: BRACELET-GOLD ON ONE SIDE, "I LOVE YOU" ON OTHER. I LOST IT WED., NOV. 4 SOMEWHERE ON NO CAMPUS. PLEASE, PLEASE CALL KK AT 2981 IF FOUNDII 
........................ 
LOST: LAVENDER FOLDER CONTAIN· lNG IMPORTANT PAPERS & PARAP­HERNALIA IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL X 2702 
Would the person who took my INFOR­MAL LOGIC bock from South dining hall last Thursday (the 5th) please dio me the courtesy of returning H sometime before finals--! desperately need it. ····Nana;~84~ ...................................... . Lost: a denim jacket with corduroy cuffs and collar left in Washington Hall. ..reward if retumed ...call 277-7137. 
............................................................. 
~you accidentally(?) picked up my brown leather bomber jacket at the party on 105 Marquette St., 7 NOV, Sat. after the cops busted the party, call Mike 1900 to return. No ?'s askad. 
........................................................ 
LOST: a light blue "NO I" brand jeanjacket on Sat. H was left in a whrte convertible on Green field. If found please call 2114­4324. No questions asked. Please help, H's not mine! 
LOST mens eyeglasses, brown frames, on roed to St. Mary's, ~found please call 2757 or leave at Badin 419. 
LOST: LEVI'S JEAN JACKET, SUNDAY IN E-LINE NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL KATHY AT 4570. THANKS! 
SILVER BRACELET LOST THURS. 1V.S BETWEEN B-P AND O'SHAG. PLEASE CALL MOIRA 13231F FOUND. 
I LOST MY BLACK VAURNET SUN­GLASSES DURING THE FOOTBALL GAME LAST SATURDAY. THEY HAVE A LOT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME. THERE IS A $$$$ REWARD! LIZ AT X2934 
FOR RENT 
Lease this 2BF' apartment now for spring semester and move in anytime.$ 325!no. includes utilities. Call 232-9239. 
Now showing for &'1AilHYWI9 lease. 6BA, 2 beth house on bus line. Call 232· 9239. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT SEMES· TEA ? SPOT IN CAMPUS VIEW OPENING UP! IF INTERESTED, CALL KEITH. 271.0571. 
FOI' rent furnished 3 bedroom home (ONE BLOCK FROM CAMPUS) beginning in December or January Call Lennie after 5 pm at 234·7650. 
STUDENT ROOMS FOR RENT 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS EEGINNING DECEMBER $140 PEA MOtiTH. CALL LENNIE AFTER 5 PM AT 23 ... 7650 
WANTED 

WANTEDII Two gred students need six GA's for Alabama game--not necessarily together. Please call 283·3090 H you can help. Our out·Of·town relatives are willing to PAY! 
HELP THIS TURKEY 
get home to 
ST. LOUIS 
FOR THANKSGIVING1 

Can leave Tues. after 12:30. Will share 
expenses. Call Laura x 2750. 
Need ride to Central Illinois Nov 20 or 21 call Kevin x1121 
TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED EARN HIGH COMMISSIONS C FREE TRIPS! FANTASTIC BUSINESS EXPE· RIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME! Meet people end gain recognition on your campu1 n an Entertainment Toure Spring Break Trip Campue Rep­tatlva. Call toll free 1-800-525-1838 and aek tor Entertainment Tours. 
Ener~lc CAMPUS REPS nMdecl to promote Spring Breek Ski & Beach trip packagM. Eam FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call SunchaM Toura today lor your application packet 1-800-321-5811. 
WANTED: 2 BAMA GA'S FOR MOM & DAD. WILL PAY GOOD$$$$ CALL JIM AT 271·9431 
Aide needed FROM Cleveland TO South Bend on 1 \129 (End ot break) Call Maggie x4670 
HELP! Need ride to WASH DC AREA over Thanksgiving! Can (want tot) leave FAI 11120 Call Julie X4670 
I also nead a BAMA GAl call Julie x4670 
Celestina and roommate need ride to Northern New Jersey area for Thanks· giving. Can leave 11-24. Please call at 
£3468. 
EARN EXTRA MONEY GO TO COUNTRY HARVESTER BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE TUESDAY, NOVEM­BER 17, 1987 BE A DORM REP. 
...........,.................................................... 
HELP Need Aide To Wash. D.C. area for break call Kim 284-4452 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 

1979 HONDA PRELUDE. 5 SPEED, AM-FM STEREO CASSEnE PLAYER, SUNROOF, CAUSE CONTROL, RUNS WELL. $900 OA BEST OFFER. 283· 4165.AF 9PM OA MOA. 
FOR SALE one way plane ticket. $119 Mich. Reg. to Philly lnt'l. Wed. Nov. 25 info call x1302. 
TICKETS r 

NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 6pm. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY$$$! CALL SUE AT X4238 
I NEED GAa FOR ALABAMA GAME. 272-413011 
NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA ve. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-114110 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 288-44114 AFTER 5 PM. 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDS! Call John 271-0939 
I need Alabama GA's and stud tix. x1118 Ken. 
SAM KINNISON tix available-11th row· Moms Civic·11113·best offer 2n-8298 
Wanted 2 GA's for the Alabama Game Call Doug at 1623 
Helpl Help! Help! I need 4 Bema tickets badly! Student or GA. Call Scott at 3217 or 1962. 
need 3 Alabama GA's ...Piease call Carol at 271·0868 
NEED BAMA TIX-call Mike 1699 
MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FROM LONG ISLAND AND I NEED ALABAMA TIX. GA'S OA STUDENT TIX. I'M A SENIOR AND THIS IS IT. CALL PAUL 2185. 
1 BAMA STUD TIX NEEDED BADLY •• CALL MAn X2055 
PINK FLOYD TIX MAn 272·1869 
.................................................. 
NEED: 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALABAMA; CALL DIANE 271.0205 
................................................................ 
NEED 1 BAMA TICKET·STU OA GA PLEASE HELP ME OUT ALYSSA 3738 
WANTED: 4 GA'S TO ALABAMA CALL ROMANO AT 1623 

NEED TIX TO ALABAMA (2 Student). WUI pey very welt. Call Richard et 272· 
5582. 
NEED 'BAMA TIX student "' GA call Doug 234~718 
I NEED ALABAMA TICKETS! CALL BEN AT 1661 
I NEED ALABAMA TICKETS! CALL BEN AT 1661 
HELPI!I MY BIG BROTHERS ARE COM· lNG OUT FOR THE ALABAMA GAME AND I NEED 3 STUD TIX OA GA'S. CALL KATHY AT 277·2944 
I NEED 1 BAMA TICKET (STUDENT OR GA) $$$$$$$$CALL TASHA X4041 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR BAMA ·WILL BEAT ANY OFFER. CALL KATHLEEN -3829 
NEED 1 BAMA STU OA GAll SUE X2919 
need 2 stud tix for bama call pete -4340 
NEED 'BAMA GA'S. CALL 272~282 
SS$$$. 
GRAD NEED 2-4 BAMA nx. ALUMNI DAD WITH BIG WALLET COMING. PLEASE CALL 312·303·51148 EVES. 
NEED TWO ALABAMA STUD TIX $$$ Michelle 288·6631 
$$$ HELP! NEED 1 ALABAMA TICKET (STUDENT OA GA) CALL KIM 2608 $$$ 
NEED: FOUR ALABAMA GAME STU· DENT TICKETS, PLEASE CALL MISSY 271-0866 
I NEED ALABAMA GA'S ·UP TO FOUR Call Marty II 14811 
I need 2 BAMA TIX in a BAD WAYIII Please help me by calling 3495. 
NEED BAMA GA's BADLY x4199 $$$$ 
My very big brother will pay very big $$$$ for a BAMA Tix. Call Steve x3893. 
Do eomethlng better! Donate your 'Bema nx to Logan Centerlll Wed, Thur, Friday dlnnara... 
Scraps or Spares? I can use those extra Barna Tix for my little sis Need 2 to 4 Call 3018 
Need 3 BAMA STUD TIX-Will pay $$$. Call 2915 
MS. TEEN AMERICA TO VISIT THIS WK --WILL NEED 1 BAMA STUD OA GA WILL PAY $$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE AT 3459 
NEEDED: 2 ALABAMA GAs VINCE 271· 9441 
NEED 1 BAMA TICKET. X2818 
FRIEND IS COMING IN FROM IUIIIIIIIIII NEED 1 BAMA TICKET BADL Yllllll CALL DENISE X2700 
NEED ALABAMA GA's Big Bucksl Call Salem 288·2032 
NEED 1 BAMA STUD TIX CALL JULIE 3714 OA 4128 
I need a pair of Barna tickets. G.A. or student is fine. Please call Vinca at 271­0477 
NEED 5 BAMA STUD. TIX AND 1 GA. $$$MIKE X1527 
need 2 ALABAMA GAs call Max at 283· 1542 or 283·1543 
I need 2 or 4 GA's for the 'BAMA game' Call Craig at 234· 7018. 
FOR SALE: 1 BAMA STUD.·BEST OF· FER £2674 
BAMA TICKETS FOR SALE BEST OF· FER 2086 
NEED TWO ALABAMA GA'SIII Laura £2494 
H E E E E E E L P I I I NEED I BAMA STUD TIK CALL TED 287·5541 
Need Barna tixs 23762384 
ALABAMA I have 6 tickets to sell as pairs or group Best offer by Thurs. 11 :00 Franco 1231 
I NEED 2 BAMA TIX·AACHEL x2930 
NEED ONE BAMA STUD TIX OA GA. WILL PAY MAJOR$$$. CALL NATASHA AT 2654. 
I need 1 'BAMA ticket ·STU or GA. Family coming from Florida. Call Karen at 4293. 
I need six Alabama tickets I will pay $180 ·maybe mOI'e call 288-8466 
HELP! I need 2 student tix and 2 GAs or 4 GAs 101' ·Bema Gamel Call Karlen a at 4068. PLEASE HELP MEl 
Need 2 or 3 BAMA GA'e Big Ed X 2343 or 2345 
S E L LING BAM AT I XIII TO BEST OFFER CALL JOHN X2255' 
HELP! I need 3 BAMA tickets. Please call Mike at 4259. Thanxl 
................................................................ NEEDED! 2 'BAMA tix, stud or GA.$$$ Call Pam £1266 
................................................................ 
HELP! Need 2-4 Alabama GA's 271· 
0468 
I finally talked my sister into coming up to NO and now she nadds a BAMA ticket! 
Help me out--will offer mucho $$$$$$$$$$for GA or Student ticket. Call Beth 1334 
Need 2 Alabama Ga's. Ask for Mike Clark 272-3783. 
PLEASE sell me 2 Alabama Tickets II Call 1325. 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP--THE DREAM STAATS WITH MOM AND DAD GETTING 2 BAMA GA'S. JB-4681 
NEED 2 'BAMA STUDENT TIX-CALL AL 
><2004 
PARTY NAKED PARTY NAKED PARTY NAKED PARTY NAKED ... WITH MY GIRLFRIEND FROM U OF KY... FOR 1 STUD. ALABAMA nCKET. CALL CHUCK 2B3·1Bn 
BAMA TICKETS 4 BOX SEATS 50 YD. LINE BEST OFFER MIKE X2165 ..................... .................. . NEED CASH--I NEED 1 ALABAMA TICKET CALL JOE AT 2073 
ELVIS THE KING needs 'Barna Stud's and GA's. Big $$$. Call 271·0464. 
need Barna GA's-call Mike 1699 
HELPIII I NEED 1 BAMA STUD TIX. PLEASE CALL MARK AT 288·3421. 
DO YOU LOVE YOUR PARENTS? I love mine but they won't come to visn unle8s I find 3 'bama tix (GA or stud) Please help me-call SMC5067 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
3 ALASKANS are coming down for ALABAMA and they need TICKETS!II GA or student Call JAN X2n6 
Interested in an internship? 
Do you know what you want to dio after graduation? 
Confused about job possibilities? 
COME TO CARNIVAL OF CAAEE~· 
NOV.12 3-6pm 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
All SMCND Students are invited 
Interested in graduate school? Attend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Interested in volunteer work? Attend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Want advice on an academic major? At· tend CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
Want to WOI'k in Chicago? Attend CAR­NIVAL OF CAREERS 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOOMC SUPPORT -EDUCATION ·SOCIAL FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION, WAITE TO BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
A SUMMER IN FRANCE, GERMANY, SWITZ, AND ITALY (JUNE 12.JULY 11) WITH ND-SMC STUDENTS? COURSES IN ITALIAN, HIST, SOC AVAILABLE. CALL T.J. JONES 2053 (302 STANFORD) FOR DETAILS ON THE SUMMER ROME PROGRAM. 
Do you have a heart of gold for NO? 
Do you have a heart of gold for NO? ~ you do, show your support by stopping in front of Howard tomorrow and getting your heart of gold NO pin.GO IRISH· BEAT BAMA 
IF YOU SELL ME YOUR BAMA TIX (STUDENT OA GA) MAUREEN FIN· NIGAN WILL SLEEP WITH YOU. CALL RICK 2647 
TO THE GORGEOUS SMC FLASHER FROM HOLY CROSS: WE MET AT CAMPUSVIEW. YOU MADE HALLOWEEN A REAL TREAT. DROP ME A UNE SOMETIME. 
A LONG DISTANCE ADMIRER 
Logan VoluntMre Dence Friday! 
8:00 Ml up 'Bema Game Saturday MMI II Logan at Noon Bring your tlcketel 
A'iiie..NeEiie·ii··;:c;··c:Hic:.\i3o..FoFi·r~ 
DAY. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 11am ON TUES. CALL 284-4438 
................................................................ 
Delp&fately need 2 'Barna tix stud. 01' GA. Kevin 1885 
ro...T'He...'i.:ii11:E....i3.ii:ii:····i...cj:j.l.8eo 
AROUND THE LAKE ON MONDAY AT 4:30, YOU HAVE SHORT BROWN HAIR, WERE WEARING A GREY SWEATSHIRT, AND STOPPED AT THE GROnO. I WOULD LIKE TO GET TO KNOW YOU. PLEASE CALL MIKE • 1743. 

I AEALL Y need a ride to ROCHESTEA,NY for break-WILL help PAY! CALL KAREN 3391 
ALL MY FRIENDS ARE COMING FOR THE BAMA GAME, SO I NEED 3 STUD TIXS REALLY BAD OA I'L BE TOTAL LOSER CALL BILL AT 2038 
NEED AIDE TO DES MOINES FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE COST. PLEASE CALL DEB-1270. 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY to my RED· NECK FROM C$" (or is it Murphy, NC ?) Love ya lots ·Kim 
TWO PEOPLE NEED RIDE TO OMAHA, NE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK -MAn X1749 
TUNNEL TUNNEL TUNNEL TUNNEL BAMA TUNNEL TUNNEL BAMA 
TUNNEL TUNNEL BAMA TUNNEL TUNNEL TUNNEL TUNNEL 
"IN LOU WE TRUST' T·SHIRTS LIM­ITED SUPPLY ·$10 CALL 2015-284· 4123 
BOOKIE BOB appologizes tor last week's inappropriate tine on the STANFORD-fisher game. Bull think I got it this week. STANFORD minus 9.5 vrs the bums from dillon. I might also be persuaded to lay 3 to 1 straight up on the game. Lets see some diorm spirit fel­lows. call 2005 between 5:30 and 6:30 PM any dey. WIMPS!!!! 
Aide needed to Champaign, IL for Thanksgiving. Call Jeanne x2117 or Bea x3462. 
I have a room for sale at the Marriott for Fri. & Sat. nights of the Alabama weekend. Call Maria £4559 
AnENTION ALL ART ENTHUSIASTS! The STUDENT LIAISON COMMITIEE for the SNITE MUSEUM is meeting on Nov. 12 at 5:15 in the Snite Board Room. ALL ARE WELCOME!! 
HELP Nead ride to NE N.J..NYC. Can leave after 4:30 Nov. 24 or 25. Will Share ex· penses. Call Laura x3757 . 
You need MONEY and I need Penn St. GAe. Harry 1398. 
TUNNEL FOR BAMAII We owe It to the boye. 
GO BIG AED!II Beat AI Mart1n and his Studeneslll 
Tara, Only four months and we'll be to­gether again. Until then know that I am always thinking of you and can't wait to see you. Love, Steve 
Dear X, I sponad you leaving your manhole Wed· nesday morning. You're everything I want 1n a man and more. I love a man who has a big toolset and knows how to use it. See ya next week. I can hardly wait. But bring the real Lovechunks because I want to meet him. 
The Mistaken Lovechunks 
K. in P.E. 

When you're down, rt's a long way up When you're up, it's a long way down. -Love and Rockets 
Sophomores Sophomores Sophomores 
Theodore's Night Club Night!!! Theodore's Night Club Night!!! Theodore's Night Club Night!!! 
Class officers are waitresses and waiters tonight 
Doors open at 8:30 ComediaiVMagician entertainment TONIGHT!! I 
WE HATE MIAMI...and we aim to prove it... Nude Skydivers Button Club 
Morty Sez: Succumb to peer pressure .. 
(1) HATE MIAMI (2) buy an official Hate Miami button 
WILL--Thenks so much for the roses! I lovad it. H was better than Cats. I want to see ij egain and again. LOVE, DIANNE 
3 NO gals nead ride to PENN S. GAME, will shares expenses! Call Julie X4279 
CF DANCING FEAT PROJECT 
MEETING THUAS AT 7 IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM OF LAFORTUNE. 
YO BABY YO BABY YO HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY KATE BROWN WE LOVE YOU!! DIANE, SARAH, KATHRYN 
WANTED WANTED WANTED 
ONE MOE HUSSEY 
TO GET 

RAOINGIIIIIIIII NOW WE CAN CELEBRATE YOUR 21ST 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE BEST LOOKING GUY IN ALUMNIII WE LOVE YOU, MATTY! BENJI & DIRTY 
converSation Fear .. 
Thanks for everyone's help during my time of immobilization. KC "Look Fuzzy, your name is in the paper! 
TO THE WILDEST JOE MONTANA FAN EVEAII THANKS FOR BEING "JOE TENNIS" AND GIVING US OUR MAJOR COMEBACK! GREAT SERVES! HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND GO NOTRE DAME! BEAT ALABAMA! LOVE, JCM'S OTHER WIFE 
Senior Cl81e Block Party Friday No­vember 13, 4-6:30 South Dome of JACC Everyone lnvitad 
UNITED WAY Senior Alumni Club Today 9 pm-2 am $1.00 Donations at Door -CLASS OF 
'88 
DESIGNATED DRIVER WEEK The au­tomobile replacad the horse but the driver should stay on the wagon ---Officer Tim McCarthhy CLASS OF '88 
BUNS-our favorite field hockey bruiser· congrats on your season I LOVE, Moe, Mar and Liz 
I nead a ride to Kansas City, MO or the surrounding area for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Please call Theresa at 2738. 
Meure Dorrycott Happy 20th! With love, the Fartey·PW gang 
Terrence Maxwell Mullen Have a great 21st yaarl Love, your H.S. buddy, Susan 
JOHN DEVEREAUX, WHO DID YOU HAVE TO BRIBE FOR YESTERDAY'S PERSONAL? AND SINCE WHEN DO YOU WEAR PINK? LOVE, YOUR SISTER 
TONIGHT·TONIGHT-TONIGHT ST.MAAY'S MARKETING CLUB PRESENTS Sell Defense by NO's Tai Kwan Do 7:30pm Angela Athletic Facility 
MARY WARNAMENT 
needs data lor Fri. Very Desperate! Call 284·5097-Ask for Nymph 
WE NEED YOUR TICKETS 
DESPEAATEL Y! LOGAN CENTER TAKES THEIR CLIENTS EVERY YEAR TO THE LAST NO HOME GAME PLEASE DONATE YOUR ALABAMA TIX·GA'S OA STUD TO PUT A SMILE ON THESE KIDS FACES! DONATIONS ACCEPTED AT BOTH DINING HALLS P.S. WE'RE NOT KIDDING! 
HAPPY 8 MONTH ANNIVERSARY LUMPYIIAemember.. I'll always want you I'll always need you I'll always love you 
cause you mean the world to me! Love, your bundle of love P.S.How's HERBIE?!I 
NEED AIDE BACK TO NEW JERSEY FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE MON NIGHT. CALL 284-4198 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE I NEED A AIDE TO D.C. FOR THANKSGIVING CALL DEBBIE 4-5227 
""BANDANAS'" $3 each SHOW YOUR SPIRIT SATURDAY WITH NO vs. ALABAMA BANDANAS SOLD THIS WEEK IN SMC & NO DINING HALLS GET YOURS!! SPONSORED BY SMC SENIOR CLASS 
""BANDANAS"" $3 EACH SHOW YOUR SPIRIT SATURDAY WITH NO vs ALABAMA BANDANAS SOLD THIS WEEK IN SMC & NO DINING HALLS 
GET YOURSII SPONSORED BY THE SMC SENIOR CLASS 
MOONEY,MAMA,SHANK,etc ... THURSDAY THE 15TH AT 11PM... HAPPY MEALS...BE THERE ... 
T&J P.S.WE'LL EXPECT PAYMENT 
2 parsons in need of ride to Albany,NY for turkey break. Got room, call Mo 284· 5409 
To all my friends who have given love,support and prayers: H's all paid off! I could have never made it thru the past 2 yrs. My family thanks you too, esp. Lou & Amy 0. I love ya alii Kelly P.S.Lel's celebrate this weekend!! 
MSC 

Sorry I forgot the towel But thanks for the gin I don'I cheatl 
........................................................:~~n 
Kara, Thanx for all your help last night, as well ss for the entire seme&ler. 1don't know what I would have done wtl your support. You are by far the best sister anyone 
could ever dream of having. I love you very much and am really going to miss you next year. Kris 
see PERSONALS, Page 15 
Thursday, November 12, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Aggressive freshman 
Sports Briefs
Andre Jones makes his mark 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Irish score. The crowd goes wild, but settles down during the ensuing timeout. The Notre Dame kickoff team trots onto the field, except for number seven, who prances out, waving his arms wildly, in­citing the crowd to come alive and rally behind the Irish. 
Thousands of fans thumb through their Notre Dame pro­grams. Seven? Who's number seven? 
If freshman Andre Jones has his way, future fans won't have to flip through their programs or look way down in the depth chart for his number. He's hoping that his number will be firmly implanted in their memories from his play on defense and special teams. 
Jones, Maryland's defensive player of the year last year, is both optimistic and realistic re­garding his ability to contrib­ute now and in the future. 
"We've got great linebackers this year," says Jones, an out­side linebacker by trade. "and I realize that I might not be as strong this year as the guys who have been here a while. But I'm hoping to start at out­side linebacker next year and work towards all-American as an upperclassman." Jones has been an absolute headhunter on the kickoff team this year, backing up his pre­kickoff exuberance with results -ten solo tackles and three assists, most of them rather convincing. He has been practical in going about getting playing time. 
"I don't go nuts before the kickoff to get my name known," says Jones, the 6-4, 220-pound Hyattsville, Md. na­tive. "It's just something I've always done. The crowd was really down after Boston Col­lege got off to the start they did. When it was 25-12, I didn't want our home field advantage to slip away. So when we scored, I tried to pump the crowd up a little bit. You can't believe how psyched it makes the guys on defense when they know the crowd is behind them. 
"I figure that if I can make an impression right away on special teams, I'll be able to 
Clemens wins Cy Young 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Roger Clemens of the Boston Red Sox became the first American League pitcher in more than a decade to win two straight Cy Young awards, capturing the 1987 trophy Wednesday despite a spring training holdout and 4-6 start. Now, he says he can aim for the record books. 
"It's an individual award. It gives me something to shoot for, something that no one has done before, win a third time in a row," Clemens said at a Houston news conference. "I beat the jinx. Now, I guess I have to do it again." 
Clemens, who lives in Katy, Texas, had 256 strikeouts in 281 2-3 iimings this year. He received 21 of 28 first-place votes and 124 points in balloting by a panel of Baseball Writers Association of America mem­bers. 
Jimmy Key of Toronto, 17-8 with a league-leading earned­run average of 2.76, had four first-place votes and 64 points to finish a distant second. Dave Stewart of Oakland, at 20-13 the only other 20-game winner in the AL, was third with two first­place votes 32 points. 
TIME TO PREPARE. 

START YOUR KAPLAN PREP COURSE NOW AND SAVE!!! 
* 
10% discount until Dec. 31. 

* 
Use Study Center now until April exam. 

* 
Transfers for holidays available. 


* 
Beat 1988 price increase. 

* 
Reserve place in class. 



(Popular instructor Dan Stock is back!) 

INVEST IN YOUR FUTURE. 
m;:z 

KAPLANI 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 [. South Bend Ave. Phone Zl9/272-41J5 South Bend, IN 46637 
work into the defense eventu­
ally. But I have a lot of fun on 
the special teams. I don't do 
anything that special when I 
cover kicks. Basically, I run 
down the field as fast as I can 
and find the ball. If you can get 
down there right away and 
mess up the return team's 
wedge, you can create a little 
havoc and maybe give some­
body else a shot at the tackle 
if you don't get it." 
Jones has had very little 
problem adjusting to the Irish 
system, and has already seen 
limited time at linebacker. 
Members of the team seem to 
know that Jones has the poten~ 
tial to help the squad quite a 
bit. 
"I've had no problems with the guys on the team," says Jones. "Everybody's been great --trying to help you out when they can. (Outside linebacker) Cedric Figaro has been kind of an inspiration to me so far. To me, he's the epitome of a linebacker. He's intense, a hitter, and really consistent. <Free safety) Brandy Wells, too. They're a couple of good guys to study." 
MCC 
continued from page 16 
Soccer 
There is one wOrd to describe 
the role of soccer in the MCC­
-confusing. 
Conference members 
Evansville and St. Louis are 
the two soccer powers in the 
region, but there is no guaran­
tee Notre Dame will face either 
team next season. 
Soccer officials are still 
debating what format to use in 
scheduling league competition. 
Many coaches do not want to 
tie up six of their allotted 21 
matches with league games, so 
some favor splitting the league 
into two divisions, with the 
Irish, Aces and Billikens all 
having to play each other. 
A post-season tournament is also held, but coaches such as 

Sports writers are asked to attend a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Observer office to sign up for winter sports. -The Observer 
CBS Sports will hold a seminar on sports broadcasting today at 3:15p.m. at the LaFortune Little Theatre. The seminar will feature Michael Burks, the coordinating producer for college football for CBS, color commentator Pat Haden, a director, an assistant producer and a pro­duction associate. CBS holds the weekly "CBS Sports on Campus" seminars at the home sites of games the net­works televises each week. -The Observer 
Ice time sign-ups will be held today at 1 p.m. in the JACC. Teams may sign up for a maximum of one hour per week. Cost is $50 per hour. Questions should be directed to Tom Carroll at 5227. -The Observer 
The women's soccer team will have its first indoor game today at 8 p.m. Meet at the Library circle at 7:30 
p.m. If there are any questions call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The men's basketball team will play an intrasquad scrimmage game Saturday at 11:30 a.m., prior to the NO­Alabama football game. -The Observer 
Keith Tower, a 6-11, 228-pound center from Coraopolis, Pa., became the second basketball player to sign a letter of intent to attend Notre Dame next fall. Elmer Bennett, a 6-1 guard from Houston, Tx., committed to the Irish early last month. -The Observer 
Irish head coach Dennis Grace do not want to play the same team more than once any season. Starting in 1989, 
however,  the  tournament  
champion  is  supposed  to  
receive  an  automatic  NCAA  

Tournament bid. So there is talk of not having any regular season league games. 
In that case there would be no guarantee that Notre Dame would face Evansville and St. Louis, and as the Irish found out this season, not having ranked teams on your schedule can hurt your tournament bid chances. 
Swimming 
Both the men's and women's swimming teams probably will join the MCC this season, but it is not definite. 
If the two teams do join this year, Notre Dame's participa­tion will mean competing in the 
~{PJ@{jfjlf~ 
are better with Your Group and 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 

MCC championship swim meet. Tennis 
It remains uncertain as to whether the men's tennis team will join the MCC this spring or in the spring of 1989. Notre Dame has a schedule conflict on the date of this spring's MCC tournament. 
"When we were there two years ago, it was a Notre Dame-Evansville battle for first, and both were very close," said Tim Welsh, the coach of Notre Dame's men's and women's teams. 
The women's tennis team won the North Star Conference every year it was a member, and the Irish figure to have similar success in the MCC. In the North Star, the Irish had to play dual matches with confer­ence opposition in the fall, but in the MCC the Irish only will have to compete in the MCC tournament. 
Volleyball 

The volleyball team will leave the North Star after this season, but will not join the MCC for two more years. 
"For the next two years, we'll basically be an indepen­dent," said Irish volleyball coach Art Lambert. "We'll see in two years what the situation is with the MCC. This is no real benefit to us." 
______________....... 
~--------------~--------------­

The Observer 1 John Studebaker 
weekend when they face Lake Forest In a home­and-home series. Pete Sklko has the details at right. 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, November 12, 1987 
Hockey faces Foresters; looks to break tie streak 
By PETE SKIKO year at the Irish helm. "We've Sports Writer played pretty well early in the season, and if we hadn't made Sister-kissing is not high on a couple of mistakes near the Notre Dame head hockey end of both of last weekend's coach Ric Schafer's priority games, we might have come list. away better than we did. If we 
But that's all the Irish could can get a couple of wins this muster --two ties --last weekend, it'll probably do a lot weekend against Kent State. for our confidence." The 5-5 and 6-6 deadlocks sent Schafer feels that the team Notre Dame's record to 1-1-2, has had a good week of practice and Schafer thinks it is about and that it is a just a matter of time the Irish got out of the 'T' time before the team starts hit­column and back into the 'W' ting a groove. column. "These are the games we 
The Irish will get their most have to worry about," chance this weekend when they said Schafer. "Lake Forest is play a home-and-home series in our conference. Those are with Lake Forest. Friday the games we have to win. night, the teams will face off at Later in the season we play St. the ACC and Saturday night the Thomas, a tough Division III series shifts to Lake Forest. school, but we can't look ahead Both games are at 7:30 p.m. because the name of the game 
"We're not going to win our is winning in your conference. conference one point at a I'd like to come away with a time," said Schafer, in his first sweep." 
Don't laugh too soon. Ala­bama is in a race for the Sout­
Bama 

heastern Conference champi­continued from page 16 onship and a bid to the Sugar 
Bowl. Next week's game be­defense doesn't appear any tween the Tide and Auburn will slower this season. not only answer a lot of ques­
On the other hand, the Irish tions about who gets the SEC 
offensive line outweighs the title, but is the annual contest 'Barna defensive front by about for state bragging rights. 25 pounds a man. The Notre Dame line, led by four fifth­"When you consider all the year seniors, has opened factors here, and that our pri­gaping holes in the last four mary goal is the SEC, I think consecutive victories, and has it's a valid concern and one even been getting credit in the we're taking very seriously," papers and on television -­Curry said. "It's hard to which is traditionally unusual believe we even have to think for the men in the trenches. about that against Notre 
It's the old battle of size vs. Dame, but if we overlook this strength. game, we're going to-get em­••• barrassed."
,1 
Curry also pointed out some­thing that not too many teams If the Crimson Tide needs are concerned about coming any incentive to play well into Notre Dame Stadium: against Notre Dame, the Sugar 
looking past the Irish. Bowl chooses the representa-,.....----------------------------------, 
What? Looking past the tive in case of an SEC tie. Over-Irish? That just doesn't hap­all record and national ranking 

this season. Pete Sklko features the freshman special teams artist on page 11. 
pen. come into play. 
r l 
j 
~ I j 
l 
/
I 
I 
I 
{ 
~ 
CARNIVAL OF CAREERS 
at St. Mary's Thursday, November 12 3-6 Angela Athletic Facility Everyone Welcome!! 

No 

Trust Bank 
iders
• 


}U1 pnme. 
Northern Trust Bank, ofChicago, is one of the nation's leading financial insti­tutions, well known for our blend of sound financial principles and innova­tive products. If your graduation is slated for Spring '88 and you are interested in a career in BANKING••• Plan NOW to visit with our Representa-T k'" 
tive on No\fem· 

Northern rust Ban 
her 16th, 7pm· 9pm. Let your graduation welcome the end of a job search, not the beginning of one. Cvntact the Placement Office for details. CoUege Recruiting Depart· ment, NORTHERN TRUST BANK, 50 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL 60675. An Equal Opportunity Em­
'ployer M/F. 


Thursday, November 12, 1987 
The Observer page 13 
Freshman tailback 

Watters making a big splash 


* Styled in attractive party trays. 
~ Cape Cod Cafe ~ &Market 
~­

THUR. Budweiser Can $1.30 
t.~~forct~~ 
~l~\~ ~c---' 
WE NEED YOUR 
ll~JP)UJJ1rI 
IT'S OUR POLICY.-­
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
Cool and calm in the locker room. Excited in the tunnel. And downright dangerous on the football field. 
That's a brief definition of freshman tailback Ricky Wat­ters, whose membership in Notre Dame•s· 'Pony-Express' backfield has given Irish fans a lot to cheer about and even more to look forward to. 
The rookie has run for 261 yards and two touchdowns on 58 carries, the third-best rush­ing numbers on a team whose offense revolves around the running game. 
Next Saturday when the Irish travel to Penn State to face the defending national champions, it will be a homecoming of sorts for the Harrisburg, Pa., native. 
Like so many top high school players, Watters was inun­dated with scholarship offers to several top schools, including the Nittany Lions. But Watters and his family were particu­larly impressed with the sin­cerity of Head Coach Lou Holtz. 
"He comes to your house," says Watters, "and he gives you that little smile and wink, he makes you feel so relaxed around him. As if he was saying, 'I have plans for you in the future.' And you tend to believe everything he says. I don't really know what it is. My Mom and Dad just loved him from the beginning. After he came to visit it was all 'Holtz, Holtz, Holtz.' " 
* Saturday* i'iovember 14
*
* 
Dr. Bop & : The Headliners : The best 50's-60's :sbow in the Midwest

* 
The stars of last 


: years Senior Week lf! Thurs., Fri., Sun. ltNovember 12, 13, 15 : The Kinetics
,.. 
•Thursdays &:! Sundays! 10 cent beers* $1 shots 
****** ** 

Holtz counters with similiar wishbone in the Irish offensive praise, citing the rapid im­attack, Watters has been able provement of his young back. to take his quickness and drive 
"The improvement Ricky has made since being here has been fantastic," says Holtz. "The biggest way he has im­proved is that he has better body lean and falls forward, whereas before Ricky just tried to beat every tackler." 
Thanks to Holtz' use of several runners in his attack, Watters has seen minutes on the field and on the sideline. 
"No matter who you put in, we're all going to do our job," says the freshman. "I like the way Coach Holtz gets us in there and gets our feet wet, to see what college football is all about. Coaches generally don't like to play freshmen, so I'm happy just getting time." 
Humble thoughts for a guy named to USA Today's first­team All-America squad last fall. But when one thinks of the company he is keeping these days, it easy to see why. 
"You just have to marvel at a person like Tim Brown," says Watters. "You watch him play and see the things he can do, and yet he is so humble. Tim Brown, as good as he is, he's blocking for me. I'm a fresh­
man.  He's just such  a  great  
competitor.  
"Mark  Green  is the  same  

way," adds Watters. "They are just competative people. They don't run around and say 'I'm gonna kick your butt.' They just do it." 
With the emergence of the to the outside off the pitch with impressive results. 

"I love it (the option)," says Watters. "I like to go to the out­side right now. Next year I'd like to get up to about 205 so I can be effective inside. Now when I get inside and through a hole, I look for something else, like another hole, instead of making things happen myself." 
Though he may be hesitant 

squirting through the middle of the line, Watters is not shy about the thrill of playing Notre Dame football. 
"You come outside the locker room," says Watters, "and you hear the band and the crowd saying 'Here come the Irish.' And you're thinking, 'That's right, here we come.' Whatever the team, it doesn't matter who is out there--Miami, Alabama, Michigan, whoever --here we come. 
"When teams come in here, I don't think they expect to beat us. They want to win, but I know they see the gold helmets and it strikes fear in their hearts. When we walk out and look at them, you just feel so strong. I know our stadium has to do that to them, because it gets me so pumped up when I play there." 
And when Watters takes the option pitch and jukes by oppo­nents, you just know he's not the only one in the stadium who's pumped up. 
Women 
continued from page 16 
top three individuals advanc­ing to the NCAA champion­ships. 
The Irish are coming off a disappointing second-place finish in the North Star Confer­ence Meet two weeks ago, a meet marked by inconsistent performances. DePaul placed three runners ahead of Notre Dame's top runner, a fact that led Ryan to begin looking for a frontrunner to emerge and compete for individual honors. 
Junior co-captain Theresa Rice will be Ryan's best bet to challenge the leaders. Rice emerged as one of the top run­ners in the district early in the season, but tapered off toward the end of the campaign, finish­ing 15th at the Indiana Inter­collegiates and eighth at the North Star. Rice finished 98th last year at the districts. 

Challenging Rice for the top spot will be senior co-captain Julia Merkel. Merkel was ninth at the Indiana Intercollegiates and lOth at the North Star. She finished 51st in last year's meet. Junior Terry Kibelstis will compete for the second week in a row after being sidelined for seven weeks with a stress fracture. Kibelstis returned to the squad in grand style last weekend with a ninth­place finish at the North Star and will be near 100 percent this week. 
Joining the top three runners will be senior Kathleen Leh­man, sophomore Linda Filar and freshman Jenny Ledrick. Lehman has been consistent at the fourth and fifth spots, while Ledrick has been a pleasant surprise that gives Ryan hope for a bright future. Filar battles Lehman for the final point-scoring position. 
Men 
continued from page 16 
strong competition for the Irish this weekend. Loyola recorded an early-season victory against the Irish, capturing the Na­tional Catholic Title, a meet in which the Irish finished second. Indiana scored a naore recent win over the Irish, edging them by a meager 10 points, enroute to the Indiana Intercollegiate from sopho~o~e Mike O'Connor, JUmor Ron Markezich and senior captain Dan Garrett. Markezich and O'Connor were among the top five to cross the line in the In­diana Intercollegiate Meet, while Garrett broke the tape in the dual meet against USC. 

The Irish hopes will also lie heavily on the shoulders of the Irish fourth and fifth finishers. 
Coach Pia'ne is confident that any of four runners can fill 
crown. these roles: Rick Mulvey, Mike 
SPEAK NOW OR FOREVER HOLD YOVR PEACE/ 
Piane last guided a team to Smoran, Pat -Kearns, or Ryan the NCAA's in 1984 and may Cahill. return with this year's Garrett, running in his third 
NOV.~·f\~~EY(MAIN~6:}0vK; ~~(10CIAI.f'~> B=)O,~. 
squad. The Irish have NCAA qualifier, feels confi­
remained consistent, opening dent, claiming that the team the season by dismissing Geor­has gelled together well since'tKJV. ~(Q)· LEW17 (I1ASENllr ~~UU~) b:}Ov~. ; lAHM <krlle~<T I'NU'I-) 6;}QP./4. 
[)1.1· WAL7H(jDVIIILOIJII") 6:"}0 ; AlUMNI (~Mf,II£Nr~~) B:jOPA 
getown 18-41 in Washington, its dual meet win over USC. 
D.C. and finishing up with a 17-Garrett, Markezich and
tlN. ~ft. ~i.A,NNEI\ (PIT) b}O P.M. ; 6f\ACE {PIT) B:}O P.A\. 
41 rout of USC. O'Connor also have a chance to Success for the Irish lies in a qualify as individuals, the top
NOV.~~-'KEENAN{co.-...,) b:}Q,.)L; lA~NE.c.-r-e~~) 8}0,... 
total team effort. Strong indi­21 of which will also go the vidual efforts will be essential party in Virginia. 
,. 
Season soccer recap 
Irish reach new heights 
By PETE GEGEN complished enough this season ing that we had a fantastic to establish its own identity in year, whether or not we made
Sports Writer 
the world of college athletics. the tournament," says Grace. 

So you say the Irish soccer In just four season Irish head "Not getting in the tournament team had such a good season coach Dennis Grace has did not diminish anything we that they should be in the NCAA changed a mediocre team into accomplished." Tournament. a regional power. And just this Described by Indiana head 
All right, let's leave out all season alone the Irish soccer coach Jerry Yeagely as "the the mushy stuff about what a team: young upstarts," the Irish great season the Irish had. •cracked the national top-20 moved up very quickly in the 
i They must have done someth­polls for the first time, climb­college soccer arena, a world 
\ 
ing wrong this season. After all, ing as high as seventh in Soccer which is very traditional and' they didn't even make the America's poll and 16th in the very political. The movement tournament field. ISAA coaches' poll. The team started when Grace arrived, 
You say only 24 teams in the also gained its highest ranking and it has been gaining speed entire country make the tourn­ever in the Great Lakes region ever since. ament? Hey, so what if there poll, holding the No. 2 position "No way did I think we would aren't quite as many teams in for several weeks. be where we are now," Lowney it as the basketball tourna­•was the second-last team in says of his first impressions as ment? That Grace character the nation to lose a game. Only a freshman in 1984. "But as the has had an entire four seasons Harvard remained undefeated program grew, we had to read­to make his team one ofthe best after the Irish fell to Portland just our goals." in the country. in the 16th game of the season. Lowney, the only senior who 
And that 17-3-1 record? I •defeated Indiana, 4-3 in over­started for the Irish this heard those Irish soccer time, for the first time in 10 season, indicated that the team players didn't win some games meetings, thus becoming only goal was an NCAA bid. But the 
by a lot of goals. Why, they the fourth team in the region snub means Lowney will never even went to overtime six to have ever beaten the get the chance to play in the times, although they never lost Hoosiers and only the third tournament, a chance which 
any of those games. team to have ever scored four the team hopes will come next So they beat some team goals against Indiana. season. 
called the Hoosiers. What did •received national press in Soc­"We've stepped up another they do, play the game in a corn 
f 
cer America magazine, with level," says junior midfielder articles highlighting the team's Joe Sternberg. "Next year with
field? I can't believe that 
I 
) Hoosier team is the number­rapid progress and the play of all the returning players we'll I one team in the nation, even senior captain Steve Lowney. be on solid ground. We should after they lost to this Irish edid not lose a game at its new have an even better chance of home, Krause Stadium, nor did 
team. Hey, don't you know it's making the tournament." 
football season? the team lose any of its six Grace is trying to enhanceI It may be football season, but those chances next season with 
overtime contests. the I•h soccer team has ac-"We have to keep remember-the team's schedule. While the 
-------~-----------------~~---------~-~~---------------~ 
Thursday, November 12, 1987
page 14 The Observer 
f 
I' f 
j 
j 
I f I 
I 
I 
j I 
ironwood wines and spirits 

Domestic and Imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD OR. SOUTH BEND, IN 466."55 

The Observer I Dan MacDonald Members of the Notre Dame soccer team celebrate their win over top-ranked Indiana earlier In the year. Pete Gegen reviews the high­lights reached by the team this season at left. 
tournament committee lenging this year," says Grace. criticized Notre Dame's "If luck went against us, we schedule strength this season, could have been 13-8. already Virginia, Duke and William & Mary have indicated I think we're a tournament they would like Notre Dame to type team," says Grace. play in their tournaments. "We've put oursevles in posi­
"I felt our schedule was chal-tion to be one of the elite." 


2V2C 
COPIES 
8Y! x II white 20# auto-fed NOW OPEN!!! 


•across the street from 
Corktown Liquors 'nt-0398 

Big Four tix to go on sale 
Payment may be made on the same check as season 

Tickets to the December 5 ticket purchase. Big Four basketball Student sales are slated to doubleheader featuring begin next Monday will sales Notre Dame vs. Louisville to seniors with other classes and Indiana vs. Kentucky following sequentially from will be sold the same day as there. student basketball tickets The price for the 16-game Notre Dame ticket manager package is $80 for lower Mike Bobinski announced arena seating and $54 for Wednesday. bleacher seats. 
Students will be able to Notre Dame plays Louis­purchase one ticket per ID ville in the first game at 2 at a cost of' $25 per ticket. p.m. 
Special to The Observer 

HOCKEY ACTI N NOTRE DAME 
vs 
LAKE FOREST NOVEMBER 13, 7:30PM J.A.C. 

Don't let your te"."~ papers wait until f:bl'> !as~ mir~!~ .: . THUNDER ENTERPRISES Word Processing · P1us ~.0. Box 414 South Bend, IN 4862• Roan 5-t p.m.(219) 23-4·1252 dally  



BAD ANIMALS TOUR 1987 With Special Guest MR. MISTER SUNDAY DECEMBER 13th 7:30 pm JOYCE ACC 
Tickets $16.50 -Sale for NOTRE DAME & SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS/FACULTY/STAFF will take place TOMORROW 
at 9:00AM at ticket windows located at gate 3 of the JACC. NO ASSEMBLY BEFORE 6:00 AM. Drawing for position in line at 7:00 AM -Limit four(4) tickets per purchase. (Sale for the public will take place at gate 1 0 of the JACC.) 

Thursday, November 12, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
············································~ 
: SUB PRESENTS : SUB presents:
* *
* * 
: The Morning Mter : 
The

* *
* * 
:· TONIGHT : Uving : 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 PM : 
Daylights 

7:00, 9:30, 12:00
: $2.00 : 
$2.00
** *.................... 
Engineering Auditorium
: Cushing Auditorium : 
* ,................................................... * _________..________________.. 
Campus 
Friday 4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and the Department of Anthropology Lecture "For a Sociology of the 'Latin American Tradition' " by Robert DaMatta, Edmund P. Joyce Professor of Anthropology, University of Notre Dame. 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 4 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies Lecture "Under What Circum­stances are Drastic Cuts in Nuclear Weapons Feasible?" by Dr. Wolfgang Panofsky, Director Emeritus of Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. . 5:30p.m. Morgan Stanley PresentationReception. Chicago Room, third floor LaFortune. 7 p.m. E.F.Hutton & Co. PresentationReception for all interested business and economics seniors. Upper Lounge, University Club. 7:30p.m. Lecture, "The Iconography of Power in Olmec and Maza Art," given by P. David Joralemon, a curator from New York. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 8 p.m. Heller Financial PresentationReception for all interested MCC, MIS, and CAPP students. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 8 p.m. London Baroque concert, sponsored by Department of Music. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Cheese Sandwich Baked Ham 
Sweet & Sour Pork Turkey and Dumplings 
Meatloaf Cheese Omelettes 
Mosticolli Deli Bar 
AMY THORNTON: I hope this helps you Marl< 0 I Fell in love with your sexy voice feel a little better. I love you very much the other mght on WVFI. Meet me at and can't wait un~l you're back to normal. 10:00 AM in the laundry room in LaFor·
Personals 
CHRIS tune this Saturday morning. Ronald 
continued from page 10 
JULIE HEH Schloegel: You were awesome! Waterloo, I'm duatlng your room and wfll tum 
on the heat. Thankagfvlng Ia almoat WANTED: 2 'Barna stud. tix or G.A.'s Thanks. I'm going to own half of this world hereI Frank or Steve X2161 before I run myself over the edge. I'm MluYou 
going to date every girl between here REACH and Kansas. And if that doesn't get you 
out to your friends abroad o" of my mind. I'll ask you out again. NEEDED:RIDE TOFROM ATLANTA with a personal ad in Napoleon FOR THANKSGIVING. CAN LEAVE FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH AFTER t1122. WILL SPLIT GAS.CALL 
NEWSLETTER TRIONA£4005. 
only 50 cents for up to 20 words!! .................................. ..... ····················· buy as many 20·word blocks as you like!! My 'Lil Enchilada is 2t today. THE NAKED DANCING MAN on the pool write your ad, put it WITH YOUR MONEY ...... ·············· .................................... table at Bridget's Sat night has been in an envelope in Mary Bargei:'Fore1gn Need ride to CHCAGO friday11113 call identified as Rick Meyer of 423 St. Ed's. Relations' mailbox and we'll do the rest 1435 For repeat performances call x2647. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
Beernuts 
w{LL, THANI(S VERY HIJCH. 5[£ >f')() ff(J/)1/Y / 
IJOIJ. I RNALLY (:(;T 
ASKED TO A f)fiN(£I 
AN/) I !X'JoJ'r EVEN 
KftJJJ HER l JJoi,J I L£15 CH[(K (){If rH£ ou· /X.6Kfi< NJI)5i£ 
WH, SH£, /L .. 

Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS Andrea ­
6 "-boy" 10 Fraud 14 Unusual 
people 15 Bar bill 16 Roman wear 17 Road curves 18 Change decor 19 State firmly 20 Old car 21 New Year's 
Eve gadgets 24 Old-time actor 1--+--+--+­Erwin 

25  Trouble  
26 Corgi or rabbit  
27  Harries  
30 Russ.  river  
33 Dipper  
35  Privy  to  
36 Uncertain  
40  Yeager broke  
it  
43  Pedestal part  
44 Galt  
45 46  Poets of old Brawn  © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  11/12/87  
47  Fr. river  
48 Room 52 Singer Torme  10 Vampire's undoing  
54 Existed  11  Shack  
57  Snores e.g.  12 Ripening  
61  Choose  agents  
62  Lily plant  13 Sedgy place  
63  A Maxwell  22 Pact acronym  
64 Trunk  23  Leather tool  
66 Gusset  28 Too  
67 Heroic 68 Sand ridge  29 Earth: pref. 31 -E. Lee  
69  Galaxy  32 Santa  -,  
member  Calif.  
70 71  Denomination Disordered  33 Inc. In Eng. 34 Exclamation  
35 Concerning  
DOWN  36 Gershwin and  
1 Go-getters 2 Beginning 3 Rang loudly 4 Anger 5 Org. 6 Bitter 7 Julie Andrews  Levin 37 Independence Day fare 38-up (disgusted) 39 Time periods: abbr.  47 Hoary 48 Unexpected difficulties 49 Steer 50 Gr.  11/12/87 55 Church sections 56 Saga 58 Understands 59 Ancient wine  
film  41  Shoshonean  marketplace  pitcher  
8 Current  42 Baseball stat.  51  Gladden  60  Flower holder  
9 Molecule part  46 Wager  53 Put Into law  -65 Sugar suffix  

Mark Williams 

all MY l..(),ff>. SHE l..fX¥(S UK£ A RIJN-/X¥VII) HOIJSJIV{; ffl)]Er..T. WHAT's TN/S . _ . 1/10118/ES -EATING ANP f/..OS9Al¥ ~ W[U. 11AYB£ SHE HAS . 
A 6l'£AT fERSI:#JLJTY 
(~All, I!IGIIT) ". 

At first, the crew could hear only the creaking of oars. And then, out of the fog, the ghost dinghy appeared. 



~~~~--=-------~------~~--~·.=-·=-~-=~-=·=·-~--.==~-=----------------------~~~~----~------------~-------­

Sports

page 16 Thursday, November 12, 1987 
Cross country teams to compete in· districts 
{\. . 

j 
I' 
j 
I 
i 
I 
I ' 
' 
I 
' '· 
i 
J 
I 
'i 
r i 
' f I) 
By GREG ANDRES Sports Writer 
Three teams out of 40 will be selected out of this weekend's NCAA District IV Men's Cross Country Meet to compete in the NCAA Championships in Char­lottesville, Va. The road is a rocky one, but Notre Dame hopes to pull out a great performance. 
For the Irish, the path to the finale must go by way of Bowling Green, site of the District IV this Saturday. And while 40 teams vie for the three invites, the presence of two squads who are among the top 10 in the nation, third­ranked Wisconsin and number seven, Illinois, reduces the magic number to 
one. 

Head Coach Joe Piane, now in his 13th year, feels that the Irish are competing in the 'most difficult district in the country to qualify.' 
The Observer 1 Mike Moran
Loyola and Indiana will also provide 
Both the men's and women's cross country teams will see district 
action this weekend. Greg Andres and Greg Guffey have the related see MEN, page 13 stories. 

MCC to have varied effects on Notre Dame 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame announced last month that it would rejoin the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference on a full-time basis. 
Other schools in the MCC in­clude Butler, Dayton, Detroit, Evansville, Loyola, St. Louis and Xavier. 
Notre Dame will have six men's sports --baseball, cross country, golf, soccer, swim­ming and tennis --competing in the conference. Women's teams participating in the MCC include basketball, cross country, swimming, tennis and volleyball. 
From 1982 to 1986, Notre Dame had served as a part­time member of the MCC, but had left to become an indepen­dent Women's teams are cur­rently participating in the North Star Conference, a con­ference which the Irish will be leaving next year for the MCC. 
From here, things start get­ting confusing. Different teams will be entering the conference at different times. The confer­ence membership also figures to help some teams, such as baseball and possibly soccer, while providing no apparent benefit to others. 
Baseball 
If Notre Dame wins the MCC post-season tournament this spring, the Irish would receive an automatic berth to an NCAA Regional. Winners of these six­team regionals advance to the College World Series. 
Of course, that's easier said than done. In games with con­ference teams last year, the Irish lost single games to But­ler and Detroit, dropped two of three to St. Louis and split two games with Xavier. 
"I think the conference is strong for baseball," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "It's not like the Big Ten or Big Eight, but it's strong in its own right Detroit, Xavier and Evansville have very good baseball teams." 
Basketball 
The men's basketball team will continue to compete as an independent, and the women's team will play its final season in the North Star Conference this year. 
In the 1988-1989 season, the women's basketball team will join the MCC. First-year Irish coach Muffet McGraw figures the MCC will be similar to the North Star competition. 
"I think they're similar, both have strong teams at the top," said McGraw. "Dayton, Detroit, Loyola and Notre Dame will be the top four teams. I think we can win it" 

McGraw hopes an MCC title will provide an automatic berth to the NCAA tournament by the 1988-89 season. Right now, nei­ther the MCC or North Star champion earns an automatic bid. 
McGraw said that the chances of this occurring would improve greatly if the NCAA tournament expands to 48 teams. 
Cross Country 
The men's and women's cross country teams' participa­tion in the MCC, beginning next fall, will consist of one MCC meet during the fall. 
Men's coach Joe Piane ex­pects to see his main competi­tion in the conference coming from Loyola. 
"When we were in the MCC for four years before, we won the cross country three times, but Loyola has vastly im­proved, and beat us earlier this 
Brown only one not sure of Heisman winner 
Tim Brown's name is already on the Heisman Trophy. 
All the Notre Dame flanker has to do now is make sure Alabama, Penn State and Miami don't erase it. And for Brown's name to be erased, the senior probably would have to fall on his face every-time he touches the ball. Or maybe run backwards a few times. 
Not likely. In fact, it's pretty safe to say that the nation will see a few more defenders falling on their faces and running backwards when Brown touches the ball in these next three weeks. 
According to a poll of about 15 percent of the Heisman voters conducted last week by USA Today, Brown would win by a landslide if the vote took place this afternoon. Brown garnered 80 first-place votes out of 147 surveyed, and a total of 317 points. Florida tailback Emmitt Smith was second with 85 points, and Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson received 82 points. 
This means Brown is faced with a problem some thousands of college football players would love to be faced with. Now he has to think about it -some­thing he's been trying not to do all year. 
"I really didn't think about it until last spring, when I was on the cover of some magazines," Brown said Wednesday. "People were telling me I was going to be the No. 1 candidate. Hearing things like that makes you think about what you're doing. 
"Even to be considered for a trophy like that is an honor for me ... It's nice to know that people consider me to be ahead." 
Brown's performance against Boston College this past Saturday put some distance between him and the other Heisman candidates. 
The Dallas native picked up a career high 294 all-purpose yards in Notre Dame's 32-25 victory over the Eagles, which boosted the squad's record under second-year Head Coach Lou Holtz to 7-1. 
Marty Strasen 
Football Notebook 
Brown acknowledges that the race for the Heis­man isn't over yet, but says he senses that his efforts are finally paying off. 
"It's about time," Brown said, when asked about his personal achievements and the team's success this season. "I've paid my dues. I work hard and I try to be the best at what I'm doing, and it's starting to pay off for me and the team. 
"But the season's not over. We still have three 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 

The women's cross country team will attempt to put a rollercoaster season of injuries and late-season inconsis­tencies behind it Saturday at the NCAA District IV meet in Bowling Green. 
With the full squad healthy and en­joying the benefits of a week of rest, the Irish are in a good position to im­prove on last year's 20th-place finish. Coach Dan Ryan, though, cautions about the certainty of the improved finish. 
"Our goal during the season has been to finish in the top 10 at districts," Ryan said. "But I will be happy with any im­provement over last year's 20th-place finish. The field of runners at this year's district meet is much stronger than last year's field." 
A total of 38 teams will compete in the meet with the top two teams and 
see WOMEN, page 13 
teams 
year," said Piane. "Loyola's very good, occasionally Detroit has a good runner or two and Butler has a runner or two. 
Golf 

Entering the MCC this spring, Notre Dame will com­pete in an MCC championship, and will be eligible for the all­conference teams and the Coach of the Year award. 
Notre Dame has no actual MCC regular-season competi­tion, but the Irish will face the majority of the MCC teams in various tournaments through­out the spring. 
"We've faced almost every one of these teams before, and they're getting better. It will be a very worthwhile conference for us," said Irish golf coach Noel O'Sullivan. 
see MCC, page 11 
more games to play, and anything can happen." But don't count on it. 
The games coaches play. 
Holtz expressed concern at his weekly press con­ference over whether the Irish will be able to run the ball effectively against the Crimson Tide on Saturday. 
"If there's one thing they're going to do," Holtz said, "it's shut off the run. LSU, I felt, was one of the finest offensive football teams and Alabama shut them off completely." 
Next up, Alabama coach Bill Curry. 
Curry, in his media teleconference held Wednes­day afternoon, expressed concern over whether his defense will be able to stop the powerful Notre Dame ground attack. 
"LSU did run well on us," Curry said of the game Alabama won by a 22-10 score. "You know they (the Irish) are going to use their strength to come out and hammer on us." 
So who do you believe? 
They both have legitimate concerns. 
Alabama ran circles around the Irish last year in the Tide's 28-10 whipping of Notre Dame, and the 
~ Bama, page 12 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---· 




