
Peace Corps -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 98 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Scholastic fate remains uncertain after meetings Monday 
By TRIPP BALTZ News Editor 
The fate of Scholastic, Notre Dame's weekly student maga­zine, remained in question after editors appealed to stu­dent and administrative leaders Monday night, accor­ding to Editor Maher Mouas­her. 
"If there is a substantial degree of control of Scholastic, most of the editorial board feel it would be difficult to con­tinue," said Mouasher. 

Five Scholastic editors, in­cluding Maher, met with Direc­tor of Student Activities Joe Cassidy at 7 Sunday night. Cassidy said he wanted to know whose decision it was to run the photograph. "All five were in on it, all five agreed on it," he said. 
Cassidy said he decided to suspend the magazine's opera­tions after the meeting. 
The conditions of the maga­zine's suspension also remained unclear, according to Mouasher. Director of Stu­dent Activities Joe Cassidy said the suspension was so Scholas­tic could "come to a better un­derstanding of what atmo­sphere they are operating under.'' 

He added, "they are not oper­ating in a vacuum." 
Cassidy said when the point is reached that both Scholastic and the administration have reached an understanding of their relationship, publication could start up again. 
Cassidy said Scholastic will 
The ObserveriFred Dobie 

tend to increase with the advent of spring. 
work with Adele Lanan, assis­tant director of student activi­ties for Media and Program­
ming,  in  arranging  a  new  
production schedule.  
Mter  the  Student  Senate  

unanimously passed a resolu­tion supporting the editorial in­dependence of Scholastic at a Monday night meeting, Mouas­her spoke briefly with Vice President for Student Mfairs Father David Tyson. 
"Basically, he strongly rec­ommended we set up a dialogue with (Asst." Vice President for Student Mfairs) Sister (Jean) Lenz and <Asst. Vice President for Student Services) Father (Peter) Rocca," Mouasher said. 
Contacted late last night, Tyson said the decision to suspend Scholastic "certainly stands." He confirmed that Rocca will be handling the sit­uation. 
Cassidy said Tyson is leaving town today and will be gone for at least one month. Cassidy 
see SCHOLASTIC, page 6 
Senate supports Scholastic editors with 2 resolutions 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously approved resolutions Monday supporting Scholas­tic's independence and urging Father Tyson to meet with Scholastic editors before leaving Notre Dame today. 
Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy, who ordered Sun­day night's suspension of the magazine, was in attendance at the meeting to clarify ques­tions. 
Editor of Scholastic Maher Mouasher and other staff mem­bers at the student magazine appeared at the Senate meeting Monday night to pres­ent a four-page statement which objected to the suspen­sion on four different points. 
First, the action violated policy expressly stated in in du Lac, the official student guide to student life, the statement said. 
Mouasher cited a passage on page 25 of the guide which says, "Student publications should be free of censorship and ad-
Regan resists pressures to resign despite rumors 
Associated Press replied, "Yes. The president 
has confidence in all the people 
WASHINGTON -President who work for him." Reagan's embattled chief of Meanwhile, a lawyer for Lt. staff, Donald Regan, resisted Col. Olive~ North's ~o,rm~r sec-pressure Monday for his resig-retary said authonties mves­nation, but sources close to tigating the Iran-Contra case First Lady Nancy Reagan have not sought to give her a predicted he will leave soon be-polygraph test to determine cause she is determined he whether she has told the truth, must go. but they do have more ques-
As rumors about Regan in-tions for her. . tensified, White House spokes-The polygraph .Issue was man Marlin Fitzwater said the raised by a story m The Los president had not asked Regan Angeles Times, which quoted to quit. Fitzwater said he's seen unidentified sources as saying no indication that Regan is that investigators doubted that leaving and that the subject has secretary Fawn ~all had been not come up at senior staff "totally lorthcommg" and that meetings. independent counsel Lawrence 
Asked if the president still Walsh's lawyers were consid­had confidence in Regan who ering asking her to take a lie has been a target of criticism detector test. in part because of his actions Plato Cacheris, who ln connection with the Iran-represents Hall, refused to dis-Contra affair, Fitzwater CUSI reports tbat abe baa told federal investigators that she helped North alter, destroy and remove large numbers of White House documents. 
Hall, 2~, who w~rked for North until he was fired from the National Security Council last Nov. 25 for his role in the a~fair, has been grante~ immu­mty from prosecution by Walsh. 
Als~ on ~?nday, t~e t~p Amencan m~Itary .officer m Central Amenca said that al­though the U .S.-backed Con­tras have a lot of problems they have a "fighting chance" to defeat Nicaragua's Sandinista government as long as U.S. support is continued. 
''With sustained support, there iS no doubt the Contra& can win," Army Gen. John Gal­vin told the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee in the midst of a gro'f!lng congresaioDal fight on whether to continue American aid to the rebels. 
Regan accompanied the president to a White House gat­bering of the n~tion's ~over­nors. Introducmg Mitchell Daniels, who has resigned as Reagan's political director, Regan said, "I wa~t to t~lk about someone who IS leavmg and it is not I." 
';1'~~ Whi~e House, alrea~y criticized ~y some of. Reaga~ s closest alhes as bemg adrift and paral~zed by the Iran arms scandal, Is expected to come under heavier fire Thursday when a. presidential boa_rd releases 1ts report on the ship­ment of weapons to Tehran and possible diversion of profits to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. 
Fitzwater said no one at the White House had seen the report or been briefed on its contents. 
vance approval of copy, and their editors and managers should be free to develop their own editorial policies and news coverage . . . . Editors and managers of student publica­tions which are supported by recognized University bodies . . . should be protected from arbitrary suspension and removal because of student, faculty, administrative, or public disapproval of editorial policy or content." "Clear­ly," said Mouasher, "the mag­azine was suspended because of administrative disap­proval." 
Second, the suspension oc­curred in the face of repeated assurances from administra­tion officials that Scholastic "would maintain editorial in­dependence and that this in­cluded no advance approval of copy by administration offi­cials." Mouasher said this in­dependence of Scholastic editors was reconfirmed by Tyson early Monday morning. 
see SENATE, page 6 

Decision on Corby's fate delayed until March 17 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Indiana state Al­coholic Beverage Commis­sion decided Monday it will not make a final decision concerning Corby Tavern's fate until March 17, accor­ding to Doug Hannoy, ad­ministrative assistant to the ABC. 
Monday's hearing was an appeal to the tavern's liquor 
tee CORBY'S, f8ae 3 
I 
'r 
r 
I r 
The Observer 
In Brief 

The Black History Showdown, a quiz competition, ended last night in the CSC with a team of six Notre Dame students on top. Derrick Benn, Carl Collins, Rochelle Holder, Carla Morgan, Julie Bennett and Lena Jeffers.on defeated teams from Indianapolis and Gary, Ind. The wm enables the team to enter the national competition in Davenport, Ia. -The Observer 
Of Interest . 
Saint Mary's juniors can vote in today's run-off for junior class officers in Haggar College Center from 8 
a.m. to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
''The Last Lecture Series, "sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government, begins tonight at 7 in the Haggar College Center Parlor. Professor David Pilgrim, of the Saint Mary's Sociology Department, will present, "Lily Whiteness 1987: Poison Or Panacea." The series will con­tinue on Tuesdays through April. -The Observer 

"Death Penalty" will be the subject of a lecture by Sandy Bietila, of the Illinois Coalition Against the Death Penalty, Wednesday at noon in Room 105 of the Law School. f3 -The Observer 
"The Redbud Workshop," a two week summer program where Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gain valu­able experiences in a medium of their choice, will present a show featuring work from last summer's workshop. The presentation featuring ceramic sculpture, printmaking and photography, will take place today through March 3 in the Hammes Gallery and Moreau Hall. -The Observer 
Dr. Walter Daly, dean of the Indiana University Medical School, will lecture on medical careers tonight at 7 in Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. This lecture is sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Delta. -The Observer 
The University Counseling Center is sponsoring a four-part workshop on building self-esteem. The series will run on Tuesday evenings March 3, 10, 24 and 31 from 6:15-7:45 p.m; in Room 123 Haggar Hall. Registration is by phone at 239-7336. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Experience: Worldviews and a Community of Faith," the last in a series of six lectures offered by the Saint Mary's Center For Sprirtuality, will be presented Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Signups for the Annual Straight Billiards Tournament begin today in the poolroom. The tournament is scheduled for Wednesday, March 4. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Faith Series" continues tonight at 7 -8:30 in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Father Andre Leveille, director of Campus Ministry, will speak on "Sacraments." -The Observer 
Anthony Kenigan, senior guest scholar at the Kellog Institute, will give a lecture titled "Undogmatic Reflec­tions on the Irony of Cuba" at 4 p.m. at Decio commons. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, February 24, 1987 -page 2 
Scholastic issue provides forum for healthy discussion 
Censorship at Notre Dame. The issue is about as clear as the colorless, androgynous figures in artist Nick Antonakis' controversial work. 
But whether it's called censorship, check and balance, or simply conflict of artistic opinion, there are some clear facts about the suspension of Scholastic, the University's student maga­zine. 
Clearly, Scholastic's decision to print An­tonakis' sketch of an intimate scene between two people was a daring yet well-calculated move. And one which was designed to spark debate. 
The debate is much-needed. Lack of commu­nication between student media and the Office of Student Activities has caused a confusion about the roles and limitations of each group. 
Scholastic editors must have anticipated the take-charge reaction of Joseph Cassidy, direc­tor of Student Activities, when he saw the Feb. 19 issue addressing censorship. Even if the photo itself was not objectionable, it was the idea that Scholastic would be bold enough to print it that probably irked Cassidy. 
What Scholastic might not have foreseen was Cassidy's rash measure, however, of driving the staff out of its LaFortune office. And later, of installing new locks on the doors to prevent entry. 
In its vague role as "publisher," the Office of Student Activities has gone too far in its recent censorship actions against Juggler and Scholastic magazines. 
Cassidy states that "it is unrealistic to depict the Student Activities Office as censor since censorship is an external influence and the Stu­dent Activities Office, as publisher, is not ex­ternal." 
As an internal part of Scholastic, then, it seems that Cassidy and his staff have played a small role in the past writing, editing and decision-making of the magazine. Is it fair for the Office to now jump in and dictate what should or should not be printed? 
Cassidy may have kept Scholastic's staff locked out temporarily. In doing so, however, he unleashed a new wave of outrage at a serious threat of censorship at the University. 
The Scholastic staff knew that theoretically, 
Cindy Rauckhorst 
Senior Staff Reporter 

press in hel( 
Cassidy's office holds the same jurisdiction over Scholastic as it does over Juggler. 
So when backed into a corner, Cassidy seemed to have had no choice but to remain consistent with the initial decision which prohibited Juggler from publishing the work. 
Scholastic's article and editorial, however, dealt with the actual removal of Antonakis' artwork from the Juggler issue, a newsworthy event, and handled it as such. 
The decision to include the picture was made to facilitate an informed discussion of whether the work should have been banned from publication. 
There still are facts to be gathered and com­ments to be made. Healthy controversy and debate are the stuff of which universities are made. 
Locked doors and editorial limits on the stu­dent press are not. 

cut s~e 
AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We •leo t..t•r• tile Roy•l Broaze S••'-••••• 
C.at... See • t•ala •laat.....Not Hoare -.........~S;L• ·(behllldSubonivS""""'Iclwo) 
Weather 
Weather raft. "Raf'? Dey ain' no raf' no mo', she done broke loose en gone en here we is." Here we are drifting into spring, sunshine and 40 and up temps. Looks like smooth sailing into tomorrow as highs remain in the high 30s. As Huck says, "You feel mighty free and easy on a raft." -Associated Press 


Notre Dame Women·s Basketball 
vs. 

Northern Indiana 
Tuesday February 24, 1987 7:30pm in the A. C. C. Main Arena 
Come see the Irish in action for their last home game!!! 
.A.·~= 

Deaign Editor ........ Allee Kroef"" Deaign A1mtant 
........................... Eileen Lawrence TJ/peaett..,. .............. John Connelly ....................................Jote Novas. New• Editor........ Mary Heilmann COJIII Editor............... Cbria Julka Sport. COJIII Editor..... Pete Gegen Vin>polnt COJIII Editor ................................ Julie ColUnge WJ/OUI Penon .... . Matt Zynlewicz B!Uln8a1 Layout...... Heidi Traxler Viewpoint WJIOUI .... Heidi Traxler Accent CopJI Editor ....... Ed Nolan Accent LIIJ101It... ... .. . .. Carey Gels TJIJIWI ....................... Colleen Foy ND Da11 Editor ........ Ron Almiron SMC DCJII Editor . Sandy Cerimele Ad Deaign ................ Joan Wrappe Photographer............. Freel Doble 
Tille OMinw (USPS 599 2--4000) 15 publisbed Monday throuah Friday except duriq cum and v.atloa periods. Tile~ 15 published by the students of the Univcnlty of Noue Dune and Saint Mery'l CoiJe&e. Subsaiptlons may be purchas­ed for So40 per year (W per semester) by writins Tile~-. P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, India• 46556. 
Tile Olllener is a IIICIIIber of Tille "--a,_ r.-. All reproduction rishts are relet'Ve!i. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 3 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Su­preme Court said Monday it will decide whether the death penalty is a valid punishment for convicted murderers who committed their crimes before they were 18 years old. 
The justices agreed to hear the appeal of Oklahoma death row inmate William Wayne Thompson, convicted of a mur­der committed when he was 15. 
Thompson's appeal contends that executing teen-age killers violates the Constitution's ban on "cruel and unusual punish­ment." 
Of the more than 1,800 men and women on death rows nationwide, about 35 of them were condemned for crimes they committed as juveniles. 
Of the 69 U.S. prison inmates executed since 1977, three were killed for murders committed before they were 18. 
The high court attempted to resolve the same issue in 1982, in the case of Oklahoma death row inmate Monte Lee Ed­dings, but decided his case on other constitutional grounds. 
A decision in Thompson's case is expected sometime in 1988. 
Returning from a four-week recess with a flurry of activity, the court also: 
-Refused to use a case from Minnesota to reconsider its past rulings that let states re­quire some girls who seek abor­tions to get permission from their parents or a judge. 

-Agreed to judge the validity of a Virginia law banning the commercial display of some sexually explicit materials where children might get at them. 
-Rejected, in an Illinois case, a challenge to state laws re­quiring all front-seat occupants of motor vehicles to wear seat belts. The law was challenged as an invasion of privacy. 
-Said it will consider killing a 12-year-old lawsuit stemming from an armed confrontation between Indians and federal agents at Wounded Knee, S.D., in 1973. 
THE ALCOHOL EDUCATION COUNCIL INVITES YOU ON A 
4 DAY TRIP 

BOUNCING BACK•..A YOUNG WOMAN DESCRIBES HER 
RECOVERY FROM DRUG ADDICTION 
Tuesday, February 24, 1987 Stapleton Lounge 7:00PM 
DESIGNER DRUGS ... THEY'RE CHEAP, THEY'RE LEGAL, 
THEY'RE LETHAL 
Film: "Designer Drugs" by Phil Donahue Student discussion following Wednesday, February 25, 1987 Stapleton Lounge 7:00PM 
COKE ... THE REAL THING, BUT NOT FOR THE FUN OF IT 
Molly Sullivan Thursday, February 26, 1987 Stapleton Lounge 7:00PM 
. t!t-­
Satnt Marys Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 
Freed Soviet prisoner vows to keep fighting 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Josef Begun came 
home from prison Monday to a 
hero's welcome at a snowy rail­
road station in Moscow, where 
he vowed to keep up the fight 
for Jewish emigration and 
human rights until all Soviet 
political prisoners are free. 
"Freedom for all prisoners of 
Zion!," the 55-year-old Begun 
shouted to dozens of friends and 
supporters as he emerged from 
the train that carried him to 
Moscow after more than three 
years in Chistopol Prison. 
His arms were raised trium­
phantly over his head and his 
mouth was open in a wide, gold­
flecked grin. But he looked 
tired and gaunt from a two­
week hunger strike and from 
what he called the "inhuman 
conditions" of prison. 
"I am insanely happy to be free," Begun said in Russian. "I see this is a certain sign that all political prisoners will be free in the nearest future. I will devote all my strength to see that this happens as soon as possible." 
Amid cheers and tears, friends hoisted him onto their shoulders and carried him down the platform as they sang the Israeli national anthem and the Hebrew song "Shalom Aleichem." 
One woman planted a big, red-lipsticked kiss on his right cheek. A man gave him a light blue yarmulke to replace the fur hat covering his prison­cropped hair. Begun's wife In­na, hugged his arm and his son, Boris, stood close by him. 
Friends tossed tulips and carnations at the Hebrew teacher, who until Friday was 
Corby's 
continuedfrom page I 
license denial which was 
granted by the county and state 
Alcoholic Beverage Commis­
sions in November and Decem­
ber respectively. 
"A lot of new evidence was admitted that had not been pre­sented before this hearing," Hannoy said. 
The hearing judge, Bill Coyle, executive secretary of the ABC, has taken the matter under advisement, and he will prepare a recommendation to present to the full commission, Hannoy said. He added that a full member vote will be taken at this next meeting. 
At Monday's meeting the full commission was not present, but, because of new evidence presented, Hannoy said Coyle the only prisoner still in Chis­topol under the law banning "anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda." 
Other such inmates were removed from Chistopol under a review of dissidents' sen­tences. Some were among the 150 dissidents who Soviet offi­cials say have been pardoned in recent weeks. 
Begun appeared optimistic about the release of political and religious dissidents and that Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms would lead to some liberalization of Soviet politics, culture and so­ciety. 
But he said without freedom for all political prisoners and free emigration, "the process of democratization will be just a lot of statistics and not real." 
Begun said he still wanted to emigrate to Israel, but aut­horities had made no promises. 
He was sentenced in October 1983 to seven years in prison and five years of internal exile for Jewish emigration activi­ties and for opposing restric­tions on teaching Hebrew. 
Begun became a symbol of the Jewish emigration move­ment. When he was not in­cluded in the announcement that Mm:mw was frPP.ing some 
imprisoned dissidents, five days of protests broke out in Moscow this month and Begun attracted world headlines. 
Plainclothes security agents broke up the last three demonstrations, kicking and punching protesters. 
Soviet officials have said all those released petitioned for a pardon and promised not to resume any activities deemed anti-Soviet. 
decided to hold another meeting with the full commis­sion present. 
Hannoy said several repre­sentatives from each side of the argument were present. "Several neighborhood resi­dents were present. Out of five, two spoke. All five were in fa­vor of the renewal," he said. 
Others at the meeting were the present owner, CTI Inc., and the prospective owner, Thomas Przybylinski. Accor­ding to Hannoy, none of these people spoke. 
Two South Bend police offi­cers spoke in opposition to the renewal as did the South Bend city attorney who read letters of complaints written by North East Neighborhood Residents, he said. 
The present owners of Corby's need the license renewal in order to sell the tavern. 
l't'llll'lllll. 


SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, teaching English In Kyoto, Japan 
!-><XJ,JJ --·----­
('lllllt'ltl" 

Find out more from Father McDonnell Tues. Feb. 24 & Wed. Feb. 25 9-4 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Contact Mary Ann Roemer 289-7949 
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987 -page 4 
Witness identifies 'Ivan the Terrible' 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A survivor quivering with emotion tes­tified Monday that John Dem­janjuk was the Nazi guard "Ivan the Terrible" who clubbed prisoners, gouged out their eyes and turned on the gas at the Treblinka death camp. 
"This is the man, the man sitting over there," Pinchas Epstein shouted in the court­room, pointing at the retired Cleveland auto worker and pounding repeatedly on the wit­ness stand. 
The outburst came minutes after he was asked to identify a picture of the guard in anal­bum of photographs. 
Epstein's parents, sister and two brothers perished at the concentration camp in Poland with 850,000 other Jews. He was the first survivor to testify at the trial of Demjanjuk, a native of the Soviet Ukraine accused of being the brutal guard who terrorized and gassed prisoners at Treblinka in 1942 and 1943. 

Demjanjuk, 66, denies ever being at the death camp and claims to be a victim of mis­taken identity. He listened without emotion Monday as his interpreter translated Epstein's accusations from He­brew to Ukrainian. 
The witness, 61, flushed and his voice shook as he said of Demjanjuk: "that's him sitting over there. Age has of course changed him but not so that he would become unrecog­nizable." 
Epstein pointed out a 1951 picture of Demjanjuk on the third page of the photo album and said: "This is Ivan as Ire­member him." 
"The picture is of an older man than the one I knew. Nevertheless, the round face, the very short neck, the broad shoulders, the slightly protrud­ing ears. This is I van,'' he said. 
.t:pstein escaped from Treblinka during a prisoner revolt August 1943 in which some reports said the brutal guard was killed. 
American defense attorney Mark O'Connor cross­examined Epstein about Ivan's appearance, that of a second Ukrainian guard, Nicholai, and about several Nazi SS officers at the camp. 
O'Connor has based his defense on the contentions that Ivan died in the uprising and that survivors' memories more than 40 years later are not ac­curate. 

Trial for alleged terrorist begins 
Associated Press 
PARIS -A Lebanese man ac­cused in the killings of Ameri­can and Israeli diplomats said at the opening of his trial Mon­day that he was an Arab fighter and denounced "Yankee ex­ecutioners" in his homeland. 
Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, 35, spoke for about 10 minutes in what appeared to be a rehearsed monologue when he was interrupted by Judge Maurice Colomb, who said Ab­dallah was beginning to repeat himself. 
When_Colomb asked whether an attorney representing the United States and the wife of one of the victims would like to respond, Abdallah objected and, raising his voice for the first time, shouted he should not be forced to listen to a "Yankee criminal." 

Abdallah was handcuffed and led from the courtroom, and the judge called a recess. 
Abdallah's attorney, Jacques Verges, later said Abdallah did not plan to attend the remainder of the trial because he refuses to subject himself to French justice and objects to the U.S. government's role in 
the trial. Verges said he would con­tinue to attend. 
The case is the first to be tried in a special seven-judge "terrorism court," set up un­der laws enacted last year. 
The trial is being conducted under heavy security. Two dozen gendarmes were sta­tioned in the courtroom, which provided room for 117 jour­nalists and about 70 spectators. Dozens of armed guards were stationed outside the court­house near Notre Dame Cathe­dral in central Paris. 


A brush with life The ObservertMike Moran Junior Kathy Hogan mixes colors and shapes on a large canvass as she creates her art project . 
.STUOI!!NI GOVI!!ti!.NMeNT 


The Observer 
Gephardt announces bid for '88 candidacy 
Tuesday, February 24, 1987 -page 5 
Ladies of fashion The ObserveriFred Dobie Women rehearse for the BCAC fashion show. Croswell, Yolanda McCullum, Zanette Bennett Pictured here (from from to back) are Vivian and Robin Holley. 
Refugees escape U.S. crackdown 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -More than 4,000 immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala have found sanctuary in Canada over the past three months, taking ref­uge not from civil war and poverty at home but from a 
U.S. crackdown on illegal aliens. 
"I like it here. It's friendlier. When you arrive, they shake your hand," said 20-year-old Alfonso Amaya of San Vicente, El Salvador. 
He lived illegally in Los An­geles for four years before fleeing to Toronto with one bro­ther and two sisters. 
Alarmed that thousands more might arrive, Canada tightened its open-door policy last Friday. It said that Central Americans wanting to come to Canada must remain in the United States and apply at Canadian consulates. 
The new system is applicable to refugees from all nations. Of­ficials said it is designed to dis­tinguish between genuinely needy cases and those simply seeking a better life and a way around normal immigration procedures. 
Before, Central Americans poured across the border by bus or took low-fare flights ­dubbed the Refugee Express ­from Newark, N.J., to Buffalo, N.Y., crossing the border at Fort Erie, Ontario, or in Quebec province near Montreal. They are from all classes. Most are Salvadorans who lived for years in the south-

Applications for the 1987-1988 Assistant Managers of the Alumni­Senior Club can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. 
Job descriptions are displayed in the Student Activities Office. 
The two available positions are: Asst. Manager for FoodtSupplies Asst. Manager Rentai&'Promotions 
The deadline for all applications is March 6, 1987. Interviews will be held March 30, 31 and April 1, 2. 
west United States. Most don't speak English. They applied for welfare in Canada until they can find work. 
At the Canadian National Ex­hibition grounds next to Lake Ontario, a dormitory has been turned into an emergency hos­tel for 140 men. 
"Most of our existing hostels are inundated, putting up people on the floor," said John Jagt, Toronto's director of hos­tel operations. 
The influx, described as a "panic" by a U.S. embassy spokesman in Ottawa, was prompted by signing of a tough, new U.S. immigration act last November. 
The law offers amnesty to illegal aliens who can prove residence in the United States since Jan. 1, 1982. But it threat­ens millions of others with deportation as of May 5 and punishes employers who knowingly hire them. 
"This crisis is being caused by the United States. These people are coming because they're being fired from their jobs," said Nancy Pocock of the Quaker Committee for Refugees, helping to settle the newcomers in Toronto. 
Canada, a sprawling nation of 25 million people, has wel­comed 5.5 million foreigners since World War II. 
But 1,000 people a week ar­rived to claim refugee status in the first six weeks of 1987, com­pared with 1,500 for all of 1980. A backlash developed. 
"We will keep this country open to genuine refugees. But right now we have so many abuses that the government has to move very quickly with control measures,'' said Im­migration Minister Benoit Bouchard. 
He canceled a policy that au­tomatically admitted claimants from 18 communist and war-torn countries and al­lowed them to work, and he im­posed a transit visa require­ment for 98 countries. 
Bouchard said U.S. aut­horities agreed not to deport Salvadorans or Guatemalans awaiting Canada's verdict on refugee applications. 
"Every Salvadoran fears going back," said Dora Jimenez, who left three children behind with her par­ents when she fled her country in 1985, crossed through Mexico and Texas and ended up working in a laundry in Freeport, N.Y. 
"I was caught and held by guerrillas for eight hours," she said, apparently because she had a friend who worked at civil guard headquarters. 
"The only thing I ever knew about Canada was that it's big and cold. But I feel secure and calm here because I know I won't be deported." 
She spoke at a downtown Toronto hostel where 25 new­comers are staying. 
Many immigrants arrive without cash. Volunteer groups help them until welfare checks arrive. 
Those with families are taken to motels in a temporary housing program, Jagt said. 
Associated Press ST. LOUIS -Rep. Richard 
Gephardt  of  Missouri  an­ 
nounced  his  bid  for  the  
presidency on  Monday,  ack­ 

nowledging he is unknown to most Americans but insisting that sheer effort will catapult him to the 1988 Democratic nomination. 
The moderate Democrat, ac­companied by about 20 mem­bers of Congress including House Majority Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., and House Ways and Means Com­mittee Chairman Dan Ros­tenkowski, D-Ill., opened his bid with a call "to make America first again" with a reactivated national govern­ment. 
Gephardt said his campaign will center on trade. "The first task of national leadership is to remove the barriers that limit what people themselves can do," he told hundreds of cheer­ing supporters. 
The six-term St. Louis-area congressman became the first major Democrat to officially announce for president, with several others to follow suit this spring. 
Although Gephardt has been actively campaigning for the past year in states with early primaries and caucuses, he remains low in presidential opinion polls. In Iowa, for ex­ample, the latest poll showed him a distant fourth at 3 per­cent, behind former Colorado Sen. Gary Hart with 59 percent, New York Gov. Mario Cuomo with 14 percent and the Rev. Jesse Jackson with 5 percent. 
But Cuomo took himself out of the race last week, an action that encouraged Gephardt and other lesser-knowns such as Delaware Sen. Joseph Biden, former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt and Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis. 
Gephardt's strategists said they hope a strong showing in early tests like Iowa and New Hampshire will give him a boost heading into a "super Tuesday" of Southern prima­ries and caucuses in early March. 
His schedule this week reflected that strategy, taking him from St. Louis to Iowa, fol­lowed by a swing through Texas and ending the week in New Hampshire. 
University of Notre Dame Foreign Study Programs 
Twnjin, Cliina 
Information Session 

Tonight, February 
6:30 p.m. 
Satellite Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Last Chance To Apply 




The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987 -page 6 
White New Orleans suburb drops bid to reconstruct crime barricade 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS) -Officials in a predominantly white sub­urb dropped their vow to rebuild barricades erected last week on two streets leading to a mostly black New Orleans neighborhood, as the two towns agreed Monday to work to reduce crime in the area. 
"It's unfortunate that the ra­cial aspect of it was interjected into the picture. It was never a consideration in Jefferson," said Robert Evans Jr., head of the Jefferson Parish Council, which ordered the barricades built. 
He and New Orleans Mayor Sidney Barthelemy met briefly Monday and then told reporters that law enforcement officials from both parishes will work together to fight the robbery and drug traffic that Evans said were his only reasons for ordering the barricades up in the first place. 
Barthelemy, who is black, earlier had said the construe­tion of the wood-and-steel bar­ricades was illegal as well as racially motivated. The bar­riers were torn down Saturday by New Orleans workers, two days after they were put up out­side the city limits. 

The barriers were dubbed "The Berlin Wall" by some blacks on the New Orleans side. Evans said the barricades were meant to cut off an escape route for criminals who had victimized the neighborhood. 
Orleans Parish Council­woman Peggy Wilson, a white Republican whose district in­cludes the neighborhood, was cheered by about 15 blacks and a few whites who were demonstrating near the site of the barricades Monday when she told them the town had backed down. 
Mrs. Wilson said she was told by Barthelemy that Evans decided not to rebuild the bar­riers after the state highway department said they were ille­gal. 
The barriers again spot­lighted a racial rift between New Orleans, with a population about 59 percent black, and Jef­ferson Parish, where 85 per­cent of the population is white. 
In December, Jefferson Parish Sheriff Harry Lee an­nounced that his deputies would routinely stop and ques­tion blacks found in predominantly white neighbor­hoods. He rescinded the order less than a day later amid a firestorm of protests, threats of a black boycott and demands that he resign. 
Jefferson Parish residents were divided on the barricades. 
"I feel that it speaks of bigotry," said Nancy Bous­field. "I'm sick of reading in the newspapers that nobody on this side cares about the bar­riers. That's not so." 
"The barricades are not going to stop crime," said Aaron Duncan, 22, another white Jefferson Parish resi­dent. "There's crime everywhere." 


The Observei"!Mike Moran

Fiddle-dee-doo 
Linda Enright bows her violin as she prepares to strike up a new 
Scholastic 
continued/rom page 1 
said Tyson is accompanying 
Father Michael McCafferty, 
associate professor of law, who 
is traveling to California for 
health reasons. 
At Monday's Senate meeting, 
Mouasher and other Scholastic 
editors were opposed strongly 
to publishing the magazine if 
under the editorial control of 
Student Activities. 
"Scholastic should be free of editorial control," he added. 
Maher said Student Activi­ties has expressed that the re­lationship would involve prior approval of the magazine before printing. ''Inspecting the (magazine before printing) is unacceptable," he said. 
"We consider· that editorial 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
Third, "Scholastic is a gen­eral interestnews magazine and cannot be expected to abide by the same policies re­garding a literarytfine arts magazine such as the Juggler,'' the resolution contended. "This distinction is a crucial one," Mouasher said. 
Fourth, said the statement, "if there are 'policies' of the Student Activities Office governing editorial considera­tions of Juggler and Dome, these have never been formally presented to any member of the Scholastic staff, nor are they printed in du Lac or any other University listing of regula­tions." 
After appending an adden­dum granting approval to an "alternative proposal to set up a board of journalism experts, approved by the Office of Stu­dent Activities and Scholastic editorial board, to meet and critique issues after publica­tion,'' the senate passed the resolution without objection. 
According to a letter issued by the Office of Student Activ­ities and signed by Cassidy, the suspension of the student mag­azine occurred because its editors "printed a photograph of an artistic work .... (which) was removed from the control. Student Activities may not agree with something and may prevent certain items from appearing in print," he added. 

Cassidy said he and Ceil Paulsen, assistant student ac­tivities director for facilities and programming, entered Scholastic's office and asked for copies of the controversial issue Thursday. He said he was told they were not yet avail­able. 
Mouasher, however, said a few copies of Thursday's edi­tion were placed in the Student Activities Office that day. He said the magazine was delivered according to the nor­mal circulation schedule. 
Sunday night Cassidy gave Scholastic staff members three and a half hours to remove per­sonal belongings from the 
Fall edition of the Juggler by the Student Activities Office . . . . Since the Scholastic is un­der the same policies as_ the Juggler and operated contrary to these policies, operations of the Scholastic will be suspended immediately,'' 
Mouasher prefaced the Scholastic editors' case with a description of the suspension. "We got a period of three and a half hours in which to clear our personal belongings out of the office," he said, referring to Sunday night's action, "after which the locks were changed on our office and our operations were suspended indefinitely.'' 
Saying he did not come to debate the issue, only to clarify questions, Cassidy said that by his interpretation, the suspen­sion was in accordance with du Lac because "the director of publications is not an external accessory.'' Therefore, as a function internal to the publica­tion, the suspension was not censorship, he said. 
Scholastic News Editor Frank Lipo said the very idea of Student Activities supervi­sion was objectionable. "A 120­year-old magazine has been faced with an ultimatum: either we let the Office of Stu­dent Activites set all schedules and check all flats, or we don't." Supervision would mean Scholastic is no longer a student magazine, he said. 
harmony.
Scholastic office, according to the resolution editors pre­sented to the Senate. Cassidy 

Milky Way and Westwood One
said he had the doors to the of­
Radio Network
fice locked and the locks changed. 

Asst. Director of Security Phillip Johnson said he knew nothing about the doors to Scholastic's office being locked. However, he said there was "a possibility a locksmith changed (the doors)." special guests 
--=,..,..,.,..,..ia Satellites

Moausher said Cassidy promised him the Scholastic of­fice would be reopened today aturday, March 28 8:00 for "meeting purposes." Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Mouasher said right now the All seats reserved $15.50 editorial board of Scholastic hopes "to achieve an accep­Tickets available at the A.C.C. table solution both for Scholas­Gate 10 Box Office tic and the whole community." Charge by phone 
VISAMC call
Although maintaining the 
(219)239-7460
suspension was justified, Cas­sidy said, "I owe Scholastic an apology." He said he had or­dered the expulsion of Scholas­tic staff members from their office based on "previous ex­perience," wherein after a similar action at a different school, students had damaged University publishing facilities. He said Scholastic staff members would be able to reenter their office by today, though only to meet. 

..-----Notre Dame Communication and FUm Series-----• This week at the Snite: 
The Conversation (1974) 

Color, 113 minutes, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, USA 
Monday, February 23, 7 p.m., Snite 
An obsessive surveillance expert (Gene Hackman) becomes personally involved in a case, 
finding himself pulled into murder and high-level power plays. Perhaps Coppola's most 
brilliant (and underrated) film among the strong early work. 
Remember My Name (1978) 

Color, 101 minutes, directed by Alan Rudolph, USA 
Monday, February 23, 9 p.m., Snite 
The film preceding "Choose Me" and "Trouble in Mind" stars Geraldine Chaplin as an 
ex-con who, having taken the rap for lover Anthony Perkins, gets out of jail only to discover 
that he has married another woman. Rudolph's quirky, non-genre film of great originality 
wa!! produced by Robert Altman. 
Manhattan (1979) BW, cinemascope, 96 minutes, directed by Woody Allen, USA Tuesday, February 24, 7:30p.m., Snite Chronicling Allen's search for the ideal relationship (from Meryl Steep to Diane Keaton to Marie! Hemingway), "Manhattan" is at once a delightful comedy and a passionate and gentle love song to New York City and its inhabitants. 
r--­
Feb-ruary24,..........
View~_O_l_·n_t________Tues_..day._, ..... 1987 -pa~ge7 
Areas for student input must be revealed to all 
Yesterday, I wrote that it was the realm of the Student Activities Board). administration's failings that have led In all these areas, except Student Af­to student government's present woeful fairs, and to these two bodies, the ad­state. No one in the dome has accepted ministration has given us a formal in­the responsibility of inviting us to the vitation. It not only asks, but expects, party. So, we bicker cynically with our­us to do something in these areas. This selves; unable to recognize and accept responsibilty is well received. I believe the guilt of impotence. We are student that a tradition of excellence exists in leaders. Impotence should not be our all these areas; better or worse in any most prominent feature. given year depending on the individuals who have that job. Why? Because there Bruce Lohman is a job to be done and it gets done. Satisfied expectations beget mutual 
guest column respect. 

But no one knows about these things. 
However, this accusation is too easy. Why? Silence and reconstruction. Too 
Why not start out legitimizing student often, reconstruction has been student 
government by condemning those with government's top priority. Cannot we 
power? recognize that structures, beyond the 
Now, as a second step to legitimacy, two mentioned above, are all window it is time to own up to our own faults, dressing? These other structures serve or more correctly, my own faults. The little purpose, but look "nice." These administration is guilty insofar as it has other structures do not make a differ­helped perpetuate the myth of student ence to anyone or anything. Shameful­government; a perpetuation which ly, I admit to serving on two constitu­makes its job easier. But I am more at tion restructuring committees. fault than it is. I cannot solve student Encouraging these charades helped me government's problems; only it can do keep the invites to myself. Oh, the joys that. I can, however, put an end to this of manipulating the game which we myth. play. 
In the past three years, I have been Why do these efforts amount to noth­hoarding all of the invitation. I never ing? Because there is no invitation to wanted everyone to know about these discuss these matters. We cannot make parties because more talented students up these jobs because we are not re­might have knocked on the door. sponsible for any of this. Live with it. Silence and reconstruction have al­Accept it. Move on. lowed me to continue to do important And then there is silence. Silence has things; or think that is the case. Let served me well. As I mentioned, silence me explain. has allowed me to hoard the invitations 
What most students think student which rightfully belong to the students. government is or should be is not what Yet, graduation looms on the horizon. student government is at all. That stu­So, I feel comfortable breaking my dent government is the myth. Further­silence. more, although the administration The second step to legitimatizing stu­deserves criticism for conspiring to as­dent government is simply to demyt­sist the traditional student govern­hologize student government. Break ment-student affairs tragic comedy, it our silence. The senior members of stu­deserves praise for other areas. It has dent government need to tell others of invited us to plenty of parties. The prob­their experiences. Explain the areas of lem is those invitations are not being responsible, respectable student input. passed along. I have been accepting So, I call on Dave, Doug, Joanie, Becca, these invites on your, the student's, be­Pat, Maria and Mike to pick up your half. (Not just me, of course. But I don't pens and tell us what you do. Better want to point any fingers at friends of yet, go speak directly to the freshmen mine.) and sophomores. I know that you do 
What student government does is responsible jobs which improve our very simple. Five things. Trustee community and the lives of students. Reports. Academic Concerns. Student Now tell the students. Be self­Affairs Concerns. Fiscal Responsibilty. congratulatory. You deserve, however, Cabinet Activities. Further, there are to be forewarned that learning to teach only two bodies which we need. The will not be an easy task. Hall Presidents' Council and the What will be the result of giving up Budget Committee. (Note that the our fetish with structures and coming Steering Committee, while important out of our shell? Recruitment. Cer­and worthy of its job, falls under the tainly not respect amongst our peers 
HOU/&VCR, (){JR CUCNTI./NlJER.­
5!AN/J5 THATSf»fC VICIJIE.I<S MAY FINO THe ME.~?£ MEN­TION OF 115 PROOlJCT ON Tel£V15/0N OFFENSIVe. 

campus wide. Too much to ask for. Just sell the learning opportunity to five talented freshmen and sophomores and things will be left in good hands. Tell them what you learned before telling them what you did. 
This year has been very difficult for me. Many of my hopes have come crashing down. Hopes for the Campus Life Council as an effective body. Hopes that the students cared just enough to insist upon honesty in their campus leaders. Hopes that the administration could make tough, yet creative, deci­sions with more in mind than avoiding fiscal minuses. Hopes to recruit thirty talented underclassmen and sell them on the benefits of getting involved. 
The myth of student government has been perpetuated this year. Evidence the recent campaign for new tale­spinners. Worse, campus opinion and student leadership fused together to designate this year's major themes as absurdity and imbecility. The myth 
Yet, in these other areas, efforts for improvement have quietly moved for­ward. For these activities, Mike and Don deserve praise. Responsible stu­dent imput exists at the University. Un­fortunately, it has been lurking in the shadows of disgraceful storytelling for too long. It is time for these other areas to step forward and claim their rightful place under the students' awareness and guidance. It is to this task that those who follow us seniors should devote themselves. 
With these admissions of my past 
failings, I hope that a tradition of ex­
cellence might see the light of day. 
Respect might follow shortly there­
after. 

With these admissions of my past failings, I hope that a tradition of ex­cellence might see the light of day. Respect might follow shortly there­after. 
Bruce Lohman is the coordinator ofstu­dent reports to the Notre Dame Board 
was at its worst this year. of Trustees. 
P.O.BoxQ 
SMC office candidates deserve class support 
Dear Editor: 

There has been quite a bit of excite­ment at Saint Mary's concerning the class election results. The first run-off for junior class offices generated much enthusiasm and class involvement, as the percentage of students voting in­creased to get the election over with. Now there is a second run-off and class members as well as candidates are on edge about the prospective outcome. 
In light of this situation, I would like to commend the two opposing junior class tickets for their endurance and persistence in what seems to be an end­less battle. I would like to stress that these candidates are not taking part in a popularity contest. The results of this election will provide next year's junior class with the most experienced and effective group of people suited to be in office. They will be chosen specifi­cally by their peers to do the best job they possibly can. I ask the junior class of Saint Mary's to vote in Tuesday's run-off election, but more importantly, weigh the consequences of your deci­sion. 
I would like to wish both the junior class tickets good luck in their cam­paign efforts. The best ticket will win, with the unending support of the junior class. 
Maria Doti Regina Hall 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference. Write to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 



Trudeau 
/AIHOA! 

Quote of the day 
t;IJ.FC. 60TMY 8YA lfTTEN­IVH5KtRf T/ON! 
"Friendship often ends in love;
"" but love in friendship never." 
""' 
Charles Caleb Colton (1780-1832) "The Lacon," 1829 
General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuennann 
Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler 
Photography Editor ......................•........... James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46558(219)239-5303 
News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz 
Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon 
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy 
Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University 
Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan 
Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke 
ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies 
Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby 
Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin
of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager .........................•......... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller .............................•............... Alex VonderHaar 
space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
opinions on campus, through letters, Ia encouraged. Founded November3, 1888 
Accent 




A Service To Others 

The Peace Corps not a job, an adventure 
THERESA LOOMIS a lengthy application which openings and must supply culture of the respective Experience in the Peace features writer inquires about job history and eight names for references. country. Corps' is excellent background community involvement. The Next. applications are sent to Volunteers may be assigned for anyone and viewed posi-Are you Interested in serving application also contains a the placement office In Wash-to any of the 6.3 countries that tlveiy by employers. As Loseff 
others and finding an al-question regarding the appli-ington, D.C. where applicants have made an invitation to the explained, participation in the ternatlve to the post graduation cant's motivation and desire to are matched to the specific Peace Corps although 40 per-Peace Corps shows a person is job market search? If so, then volunteer. jobs that best fit their abilities. cent of volunteers are in Africa. a self-starter and an Innovator, perhaps the Peace Corps can This entire application process Applicants' placement competent in a leadership role, provide the opportunity for People are chosen on the can take from six to nine preferences are taken Into ac-able to make plans, adept at which you are looking. basis of their specific skills. months. count. especially if they speak sharing skills, and bilingual. 
Peace Corps Is one of the Having a degree Is a qualifica-Possible assignments may be a certain language. Participation also benefits per­
country's best known service tion for several of the service in any one of approximately 55 The Peace Corps' primary sons In supervisory roles be-
organizations. The purpose of programs and, therefore, bene-programs. Most tend to be responsibility Is to the cause they are often working 
the Peace Corps as three fold: ficial. However, applicants need teaching related in which vol-countries they serve and pro-with various cultures. It builds 
to provide technical assistance not possess a degree for the unteers impart knowledge to a viding them with the best confidence too. 
to lesser developed countries, agricultural, business, and foreign counterpart who can qualified people for their 
to help people of other vocational programs if their continue implementation after needs. Loseff said that if volun-If the Peace Corps Interests 
countries learn what the U.S. is background demonstrates suffi-their departure. teers say they will only serve in you, several activities can an-
about, and to help Americans cient experience. All assignments consist of a a specific country, their swer any questions. A film 
learn about people of other three month training program chances are narrowed and their about the Peace Corps was 
countries, said Donald Loseff, a After reviewing applications, directly preceeding a two year motives questioned. Perhaps shown Feb. 19 in the Center 
Chicago area representative 16 area offices conduct Inter-stay. Applicants do not neces-they should be looking for a for Social Concerns Represen­
and former volunteer. views. If applicants meet the sarily need to know the Jan-travel agency because no tatives will be on campus 
skill requirements, their appli-guage of the country In which guarantees can be made. Wher-March .3 and 4 with information 
Anyone 18 years of age or cations are then passed to one they work since intensive Jan-ever volunteers find themselves and applications. These oppor­
older can apply to be a volun-of three regional offices. Appli-guage training is included in assigned, the Peace Corps pro-tunlties offer the chance to ex-
teer, and no upper age limit cants are nominated to a pro-the three month program. Also vides ali transportation and piore the possibility of service 
exists. The process begins with gram depending on position Included are the history and living expenses. with the Peace Corps. 


Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 8 -;'9 
The biggest bargin is learning how to bargin 
'Bustllng. busy, and full of life, the capital's street markets 
are an Integral part of the London shopping scene." So says the "Quick Guide to London." But this pointed description does not justice in explaining the Incredible spectacle that 
-

springs up on the streets of London. 
There is nothing stateside to compare them to. They are similar, at best. to flea-markets or American county fairs. They differ immensely, though, in variety, character, and Intensity. Perhaps the only way to describe them is through the eyes of a first-time market-goer. 
Although most London tourists visit the markets, city residents also make them a habit. Butchers, green grocers, and bakeries abound, allowing the city-dwellers an opportunity to make their purchases of fresh goods at great bargains. 

Lisa Young 
The London Bridge 
Saturday is the main trading day at Portbello Road, a ten minute walk from our residences. Most of the canopies are set up in front of the street's shops, with a few branching off on side streets. It is a movie-like scene with vendors crying out their wares and shoppers pausing to look at each booth. As one wanders down Portbello road, away from the central area, the quality of the good declines. Near the end of the street are racks and tables filled with second hand clothing. 
Petticoat Lane Market is open only on Sundays and is probabl London's most famous market. Similar In appearance to Portbello, the atmosphere of Petticoat Lane Is much different. The vendors here are much more vocal and eager to attract customers. 
Both markets offer an astounding variety; everything from toothpaste to fur coats, buttons to dishes, lipstick to curio cabinets. Most goods do not have marked prices. Upon Inquiry of a price, and therefore Interest In the merchandise, the vendors seem Intent on talking customers into making a purchase. This leads to one of the most Interesting aspects of marketing: bargaining. 
Bargaining. too, can best be described through experience. It Is, by nature, an uncomfortable Idea for those of us who are not used to it. University Park Mall shopping habits do not prepare one for this foreign custom. The obvious problem is the lack of experience in knowing what to say and how to act. Afraid of offending the merchant. yet attemtplng to look at ease in this bargaining role, the question of price arises. What should I offer for this 20 pound sweater? It Is also difficult to talk a vendor's price down when It Is apparent that you are much better off than he. 
Having only traveler's cheques with me, I went to a Bureau de Change at Petticoat Lane to cash them. I signed my cheques and handed them to the cashier. He was very friendly and asked what 1 was buying. I told him he replied "Bargain with them. You have cash now; you can talk the price down." 
This confirmed things I had read about markets, yet contradicted my experience of the day before. I was Interested In a Scottish Wool blanket at Portbello and tried to bargain with the man. He would take, no less than the price marked and seemed almost disgusted at my offer. He muttered that he had already sold a dozen at the marked price that day. 
Another vendor elaborated on the fact that I was an Amerl· can, therefore rich, and that he couldn't accept my bargaining offers. It was not use explaining to him that I was a student. therefore not rich, and I truly couldn't afford the price he was asking. 
After many hours of shopping and countless attempts at bargaining. I was finally sucessful. Having found the object of my marketing pursuits, I offered the merchant five pounds less than the price he was asking. He shook his head and said out loud, "No, no," but then he pulled me very close. f1e mumbled something I couldn't exactly make out. but the glst of It was 
1 

that he would accept my offer. He didn't want other customers nearby to know that he would accept less than the quoted price. 
There Is much more to the market experience: the people, the colors, the language. But these, too, are difficult to put on paper. The only way to understand a market Is to experience it. 
Above (Clockwise from top left): Dan Mcinerny, Scott Hardek, Debbie Adamczyk, Paul Acompora, Mary Ellen Kenny and l(aren NIH are all ND graduates and Holy Cross Associates In Hayward, CA. Left: One of the children that benefits from the association's work In Lima, Peru. 
Don't panic: Volunteer 
LISA COLEMAN features writer 

D
uring february and March as business firms continue to Interview on campus many undecided Seniors begin to panic. 
Senior Post-Graduate Coun­selor at the Center for Social Concerns Mary Ann Roemer claims that post graduate volunteer programs are fre­quently the answer for graduat­Ing students who are not quite ready to launch a lifetime career. 
These one year programs offer a variety ofjobs In many different settings. 'The pro­grams give Notre Dame graduates the chance to do good for other people and to sample job areas they may want to work In later on," says Roemer. 
There are many Seniors who are panicking unnecessarily. They have had a great start In all aspects of their education. Now some want a chance to experiment with what they have learned and who they are before committing themselves to a career. 
Holy Cross Association 
"(I want to) cnannel all the energy put Into me Into some­thing good for others before choosing a career and becom­Ing more self-oriented," says Senior Marianne Herb, an English-french double major app!ylng to the Holy Cross As­sociates. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns has Information on a variety of programs to meet the needs of all who are Inter­ested. Here are just a few that will be on campus toward the end of february and early March. 
The Holy Cross Associates Is a one-year voluteer program with an emphasis on com­munal living. Located through· out the country In Portland, Oregon, Hayward, California, Colorado Springs, and Avon· dale, Arizona, volunteers partie· lpate In areas such as teaching. 
parish ministry, alcohol abuse 
centers, and shelters for the 
needy. 
Beyond this service to the 
poor, Holy Cross Associates 
devote themselves to a year of 
simple living. In each city, they 
pool all their earnings to rent a 
house and provide meals and 
transportation economically. 
Each volunteer receives only 
$60 a month for his own per­
sonal spending money, but the 
goal Is to live without the 
luxuries of wealth or material 
goods, even travel. Volunteers 
have found that this kind of 
simple living and sharing 
within the community of the 
household help them to live 
and work on a more personal 
level with the poor. 
Jesuit Voluteer Corps 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps 
workers spend a year of service 
In legal clinics, alcohol clinics 
soup kitchens and many other 
areas of need. This program's 
emphasis Is placed on work 
although participants do live In 
community. The Jesuit Volun· 
teers live and work all over the 
country and join with other 
volunteers In their regions for 
retreats and evaluations of 
their work. 
Channel Volunteer Program 
John Reid, a Notre Dame alumnus, heads the Channel Volunteer program. The pro­gram Is based In Seattle, Wash· lngton with locations along the West Coast. Like the Jesuit program, volunteers work as teachers and assistants In legal clinics and alcohol clinics. 
Public Interest 
Re.earch Group 
Many graduates prefer a pro­
gram that offers complete em· 
ployment. The Public Interest 
Research Group pays graduates 
to research and lobby for spe· 
clal Interests. 
"Our experiences both In job 
and community, have forced us 
to question the structure of 
society from many perspec· 
tlves," says a letter Roemer 
received recently from Tim 
Buckley, a 1986 Notre Dame graduate. Buckley Is spending this year In the Jesuit Volunteer Corp as a teacher In Portland, Oregon. "Beyond the socio· political Issues we face, com· munlty living makes us exam· lne ourselves and the ways we Interact with each other." 

One year of living. working and sharing talents and values puts a finishing touch on what graduates have been learning throughout their lives. This experience often provides the time needed to make a trans· action from student to full· time, working adult. 
Seniors such as Nancy Camarote claim these pro· grams really work to their ad· vantage. Camarote has applied to become a Holy Cross Associ· ate this year. She would like to volunteer as a teacher and hopes to receive a permanent position upon leaving the pro­gram. "(It's a) really good chance to grow and to see a different part of life by experl· enclng hardship," she says. "''ve been fortunate and gained a lot and want to give some of what I've been given back to others." 
Giving. sharing and growing are what these programs are about. Although work is often difficult participants appear to get out of each activity twice as much as they put ln. 
Roemer hopes that through these groups students will take advantage of the Christian values and commltmentsf that began In their families and have been nurtured through Notre Dame. 
"I was able to grow and to look beyond myself Into the hearts of others," says Patty Clsle, a 1985 Notre Dame graduate seems to sum up everyones feelings In her recent guest oolumn In VIew­point. "I was able to rebuild, to gain a strength and to better understand my Christian faith. I found out I have a long way to go but fortunately through my HCA experience, I learned to open myself up and leave room within for growth." 

Business 

Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 10 

Brazil squeezes Florida OJ market lNfiAVEAPrs-1 
...---~E THOMAS J.----. 
HITECENTER 

VOCATION RETREAT 
FORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 



~~~--=::;....;:..:;......;;€=-~ toh£1pyou considE:r~.liQiou6 lif~
• 
Notre Dame L1w School 

a~ a ~l~t~~ pric.ot, or VrothEt" irt thE. 
presents a lecture by 

Con£r£g ation of fi o!Y Cross William B. Ball, Esq. 
~~.........Loai~S.~ ~r'1day, March :1.1, 7pJtL-'Saturday,/ttarch~s-1"'
Ball & Skelly Harrisburg, PA 

,.......--=:;:;;-.....;;~-..-~ ftary~ Solitude frayt:r CEnter~ st. Mary~
on 

Religious Liberty in the Courtroom Wednesday, Feb. 25 noon Room 121 Law School 
~------------------------------------------------------------­
Mock market nears the closing bell 
ByCAROLYNGILLESPIE Business writer 
The Notre Dame Finance Club's Mock Stock Market con­test is winding to a close after three months of trading. 
On March 13, when the game officially ends, ''the committee will liquidate the various in­vestments that the students made with their initial Cash Management Account of $100,000 of mock money to de­termine a winner," said Jim Vizzini, who heads the execu­tive committee that runs the 

-
contest along with fellow senior finance major Erin Jilek. 
The portfolio with the best after-tax return on their invest­ments will win the first prize 
This drink almost stole the show in "Trad­ingPlaces,"butthecampusdininghallsstillrefuse to serve it for lunch and dinner. Or­ange juice must be too expensive for them 
to pay heed to Anita Bryant's slogans. Alex . VonderHaar 

or­ange ate has become saturated from oversupply. Students who have read about the four freezes in Florida over the past six years are probably wondering how this could have happened. Apparently, or­ange juice isn't just from Florida anymore. 
The extra production has come from Brazil, and one entrepreneur stood out from the pack, according to The Wall Street Jour­nal. Back in December of 1962, the Sunshine State lost millions of orange trees in a bitter frost. Jose Cutrale, Jr., then a struggling or­ange salesman in Sao Paulo, noticed an op­portunity to supply the lost juice. 
His company, Sucucitrico Cutrale, now owns 6.7 million orange trees. Cutrale's for­mula for success is "never take a holiday. Work for quality, quantity and competitive price." 
While Florida farmers resent his competi­tion, other Americans have been happy to help the Brazilian. Coca-Cola helped launch Cutrale's business, and now Coke buys all its Brazilian juice from him. American bank­ers, concerned about the nation's ability to repay its debt, love the boost that the crop gives to Brazil's export earnings. 
Brazil is now the world leader in the pro­duction of oranges. In 1986, the tropical na­of $100. The second prize of $50 and a $25 third prize will also be awarded. No specific leaders of the game can be de­termined until the game is of­ficially over and the portfolios are liquidated. 

"There are approximately 75 students participating in the game," according to Vizzini. 
The software package that was donated by a well-known brokerage firm and being used for the first time "has helped considerably in maintaining the smooth runnning of the game as well as saved the com­mittee time in comparison to previous years," said Vizzini. 
Last year's winner, Tom Meagher, said he qualified for the $100 prize by earning a 
tion made over 200 million 90-pound boxes, 
twice the output of Florida. Brazil trailed their American counterparts as recently as 1981. 
~utrale'~ product .s~ows up in cartons of Mmute Maid orange JUice. This arrangement is great for Coke because of the fickleness of the Florida crop. Sam Ayoub, a former Coke finance director, maintains that "Coke will never let him down because he has ne•rer 
failed to produce the goods." 
Since Minute Maid controls over a fifth of the $3.3 million U.S. market, most juice
drinkers here can thank Cutrale for satisfy­ing B:t least some of t~eir thirst. 
This great production, however, has had its drawbacks. Because the demand grew so rapidly over the last 20 years, farmers throughout the world planted more trees than today's slowly growing market can use. Even Jose Cutrale is feeling the squeeze from in­creased competition. 
But like any great businessman, he has exploited the tools at his disposal. He has been using government subsidies, cheap labor, and concessions from his suppliers to further his domination. For example, in addition to growing his own, Cutrale buys oranges from small farmers. The price he pays per box (90 pounds) has fallen to $1, down from $3.50 two years ago. 
American consumers have yet not reaped the full benefit of lower prices. Aldi's and Kroger's still charge 99 cents for half gallons of generic orange juice while the Huddle commands almost two bucks for the real Minute Maid. 
Wherever you buy your citrus, remember that much of it is coming from Brazil. Despite the glut, Cutrale remains confident: "I'm happy because I have more orange trees than anyone else in the world." 
return of 55 percent on his in­vestment. Last year's contest gave players $10,000 to start with and only one week to play the game. Players could trade as often as they wished at a table manned by the Finance Club during trading hours. Results were based on the ac­tual performance of corres­ponding stocks in the real stock exchange. 
Vizzini said this year's game "provided a great opportunity to learn about various types of investments as well as gain hands-on experience and a knowledge of how the stock market works at no risk to the student," said Vizzini. 
The game, which began Nov. 17, was open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 

§ Early BI.rd Speci·a) • § ~
I
Now renting for Fall ~ 2 Bedrooms completely §fum· h d §IS e §§ sign up before break and § ~ · · t ~ 
recetVe '0, 10% dtSCOUn
C 11 234 6647
§ a -~ § Protected by Pinkerton Security §
§ §
S. Agency & 
J.~<Q><q-.·.Q>·.Q>~c.b>ob'-Q><Q>·.Q>.q...q-.-.o.~.q.·.q.._q-..q.~ 
The Observer Is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
1987-88 
Managing Editor and Business Manager 
A resume and a one-page personal statement Is due to Kevin Becker by 5 PM, Tuesday, February 24. 

3rd Floor 
Lafortune Student Center 
239-5303 
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 11 
NVA calendar
Sports Briefs 

Special to The Observer 
Dick Houser, although he had stoically maintained the helm of the Kansas City Royals after surgery for a malignant brain tumor, decided Monday he just wasn't up to the task after going through the first day of spring drills and resigned. -Associated Press 
DePaul held its No.4 ranking in this week's AP Top 
20. UNLV remained in front, while North Carolina, 25-2, moved ahead of Indiana, 23-2, into second place this week. 
-Associated Press 
Jackie Joyner-Kersee,who set world records twice in the seven-event heptathlon last year, was named the 1986 winner of the Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete Monday night. -Associated Press 
Todd Mitchell scored 19 points and Troy Lewis added 18, including the go-ahead basket in overtime, as sixth­ranked Purdue nipped Illinois 76-75 in Big Ten basketball Monday night. -Associated Press 

The ND women's track club hosts the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday, Feb. 28. Anyone interested in volunteering for the meet is aasked to contact Dan Ryan at 287-6616 or 239-6989. There will be a meeting for the volunteers Thursday at the women's cross country office (room 127) on the second floor of the ACC. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball begins the first week of March. Entry forms are available at Angela Ath­letic Facility and are due no later than tomorrow. There is a $10 fee per team. -The Observer 
The OC hockey team will practice tonight at 7:15 and tomorrow at 5:45p.m. at Howard Park. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for some upcoming events on its agenda. 
Tomorrow is the deadline for: 
Swimming Relays: Hall rep­resentation, team meet, men's and women's divisions. 
Water Volleyball: Open tournament, double-elimination. 
Lacrosse : Interhall event, proof of insurance required, 15 to 25-man rosters. 
Students are also reminded of the Stretchercise program, which is already in progress on Tuesday and Thursday, begin­ning at 5:20p.m. 
Registration andt>r further information on these activities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
The~ Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The~ Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classllleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classllleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-<4082 
PREGNANT? Happy, loving, financially aecure couple eager 1o adopt Infant. Con· fldentlal, legal. Expenaea pd. Call Meg collect 513·271· 7526. 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 2n-7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MAS. COKER, 233-7009. 
................................................... 

DOES your club need a T ·ehlrt deelgn? How about T·ehlrta 01 other Imprinted aportawear?? Aeaaonable pricea. Call John at 1822. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GUMBY KEY CHAIN WITH 5 KEYS -CALL 1670 

found: gold Benrus quartz watch contact 1oe1 and found La Fortune 
LOST: LADIES GOLD WATCH WITH CIRCULAR FACE, SOMEWHERE BE· TWEEN GALVIN AND WALSH AROUND LUNCHTIME TUES(171h). IT WAS A X·MAS GIFT IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU 21146. 
MISSING: Were you at LND last Friday, did you plcl< up a blue NO sweatshirt w11 IOCOer ball and a St. Zahm lnacrlptlon on K, nao call Mike at 4335 01 return to 159 Zahm 
LOST: One room key to Alumni at Junior Formal.ll found, pleaae call Paul at 1209. 
Thenka. 

LOST: Grey Britchea Backpack, Spanish booka lnalde, from the Huddle Wed. night 2·18 Pleaae call Maura £3727 
LOST: Green suada jacket at Brldget'a on Thura. 21111. Pleaae, I .-.! the keya deaperatetyl Cal 284·5010 nfound all next week. 
loel: EEL SKIN WAUET; lingle-fold, brown I h's the wallet that I am really con· cemed about. Whet waa In h can be replaced. Poaalbly lost In engineering audhorium, or aouth dining hell on Sat· urday after 6:00 p.m.. Pleaae contact John Euotermann at 263-106611 
FOUND: one German car key on aida­walk 1o d-2 p811<1ng lot on Sal. night Iden­tify the mel<e and you can have h back. 1872 
Found: ONE STUPID LOOKING DOU WITH A FUNNY SAILOR SUIT. 4041 
I loet a gold Crou on the second floor of library on Sunday 2'22 Pleaae call 289­6472 If you found h. Thank You. 
Loat: 2 ringa, SMC Claaa ring and Ruby ring and one Setko walch, lady's two tone. Loa! In the ACC field houae on 2-22. Extl'lll"n& aer~Umental value. H found pleaae caM o-at 264·5209. REWARD 
FOR RENT 

4BR AVAILABlE NEXT FAU SEMI· FURNISHED $440.0Gmon. SAFE,CONVENIENT LOCATION, CALL GEOFF, 21111-7278. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australla, Aola. All fields. $900·2000 mo.Sightoeeing.Free lnfo.Write IJC, PO BX 52·1N4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
NEED TO BUY 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PAINTER & SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233·7722 OR 239-4478. 
I need a ride to MILWAUKEE for the NOTRE DAME/MARQUETTE gamellll Please help me and call Ann·Marie at 4015. 
HELPI WE NEED A AIDE OR RIDERS TO ST. LOUIS. LEAVING FRIDAY 2/l7 AND RETURNING SUNDAY 3'1. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT x4304 OR CHRIS AT x3789. 
Earn $2000-4000. Gain valuable busl· nasa experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar· kating Director for Campus Connection, our nationally expending Innovative ad· vertlalng guide. CurrenUy at 42 universities-we'll provide complete train· lng, materials, and support. Call Chris Kelaey, Manager, at(605) 564·1260 for complete Information. Ideal for ambhlous, personable freshman-junior. Start In Mar­
Apr. 
SUMMER JOBS AU LAND AND WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381· 4224 
Alders Needed to South Padre lsi. for Spring Break.Call Rob at £1776 
AIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE • WEEKEND OF FEB. 27·29 ·WILL SHARE $$$ • CAU GRETCHEN AT 
2861. 
HELP·Need Aide To Indy On 2/l7 Kevin £2035 
NEED AIDE EAST: Tof,Ciev,Bul.(l-60) thla weekend,2/l7·3'f. Will share $$.Call Brad 4o76. 
NEED AIDE TO SYRACUSE AREA FOR SB PAUL 2384 
................................................................ 
Need ride to MPLS for apring break. Call Marl< at 3639 or 239·7471 between 6·9 
p.m. Will ahara expenaea. 
................................................................ 
PLEASE TAKE ME TO PITTSBURGH FRI. 2/l7 AFTER 12:00. CAU MAAITA AT 1274. 
iiE'C;;i··..NeEo...'Aii:i·E··..;:a····L.\uoe·fi: 
DALEW. PALM AREA 3'13. CALL SUE 264·5315. 
FOR SALE 
Ia h True You Can Buy Jeepa for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta lodayl Call 1·312·742·1142 Ext. 7316 
ONE AOUN[).. TRIP PLANE TICKET FROM OHARE TO SAN FRANCISCO OVER SPRING BREAK, $99. INTER· ESTED? CAU AMY, X2875. 
Comfortable ranch for sale by owner. One Mile north of NO library. 3 bedrooma, 2 batha..Jow taxea. $88,900. Call '07· 1807 

TICKETS 
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
NEED 1 DEPAUL STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET CALL MIKE l!t60 
................................................................ 
Attention May Oradell I am willing to ex· change hotel rooms !01 graduation tick· eta. Seats muat be In the dome. Call Aober11546 
................................................................ 
J.C. needs 2 GA's and 3 Student tickets for Depaul. Please call him at 2456. 
NEED 3 STU[).TICKETS FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 232-6917 
WILL PAY CASH FOR DEPAUL GA TIX'S • CALL KEVIN 
'07-3788 
Guach needs 2 GA's for Depaul at 2456. 
NEED 1 GA for Brooklyn game. Call Mike 1142 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
THE YEUOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight dally Buy 2 sandwiches, try a anack sub free til March 1. 272-4453 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW loca~on: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
································································ 
Whet would SPRING BREAK be like without your RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS RAY BANS You know you -!Mm. You know you liNd !Mm. WEU COME AND GET THEMI CAU TIM AT 1101, RM. 324 DILLON! "THE BEST DAMN DEAL IN TOWN" 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lee• • car. 2311-2200. Rn•nc­lng av1118ble for 111 US 1tatu. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE·A·THONF4 WHEN -FEB111-11, 23-211; 11:30-1:30PM WHERE ·2nd FLOOR NO ADMIN BLD WHY ·THE WOMEN'S CARE CENTER IS A PREGNANCY HELP CENTER THAT RUNS ON VOLUNTEERS AND DONATIONS. WE NEED TO RAISE U5,000 -130,000. 
WE NEED STUDENT HELP IN CALL· lNG POTENTIAL DONORS 
CONTACT YOUR Nf>.SMC RIGHT TO UFE DORM REP FOR MORE INFOR· MAT/ON 
OR CALL KAIS ND·2550 OR THERESA SMC-4096 
Bebble, babble, uh, let'e aee...rewlnd, oh yaah. Juat wanted to tan you In print how much you mean to me. ljuet want lo be aa good 1 fr1end to you aa you ara lo me. If I could think of another verse thai rhymed with •me; I could have a oong haq, ·Spaz 
Need a ride to Cleveland. Any weekend. Call Miriam at 263·2887. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
Are you singing the blues? Learn effec· tlve ways to cope wllh depreaslon TODAY 6:30-7:30 Annapolis Room, LaFortune Student Center 
HEADED TO S.E. FLORIDA? Need ride for 2, will share expenses. Call Frank 
1208 
HELPII Desperately need ride lo Purdue this wknd(20·22) and next wknd(27·29). Will share expenoes. Call Dan at 1462 
ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE ... ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE... ALL DRUIDS MUST DIE ... AU DRUIDS MUST DIE ... 
" ... I'm such a little kid... " " ... My, but we leam so slow... • 
•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now I Bav• •• •• $90 AT Tix lo Newark •• •• Leave 3'12, Return 3-21 •• •• Call X3586 NOW •• 
Thank you St. Jude for your help­
Thank you St. Jude for your help­
Thank you St. Jude for your help­
iieNioR...iiii:i.Eo";"sENioR"vioeo··;· 
SENIOR VIDEO • SENIOR VIDEO • SENIORS • Laat chance -deadline 1o buy the senior claao video Is Friday, March 
6. Make checks payable to SPECIAL MOMENTS COUECTION for $47.50. Send to 735 LeMana Hall, SMC. Delivery Is graduation weekend. 
ATTENTION A.O.T.C. REGULATION CUTS ·$4.50 ALWAYS PERFECT VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND ·233-4767 
................................................................ 
Conatructlon, Drivers, Welders, Mac· hlnleta. Will train oome positions. (Up to $600()tnonth). TransContinental Job Search (303) 452·2258 fee. 
'I WAS HERE FOR TED'S LAST YEAR' t·ahlrta $6 dellveredl Call 4127 or 1028 
•••• STUDENT OPENING •••• American lrnpreaeionlsta Snlte Muaeum of Art Wedneaday, February 25 7·9, lacturetefreshmenta •••• STUDENT OPENING •••• 
•••• STUDENT OPENING •••• 
Amerfcan lmpreaaionlsta 
Snlta Muoeum of Art 
Wednesday, February 25 
7·9, lacturetafreshmenta 
•••• STUDENT OPENING •••• 
IS IT LOVE? or juat oex? Don't tell the lASII 
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX LOVE SEX LOVE SEX LOVE SEX AND THE IASI THIS SPRING'S HOTTEST PRODUC· TION FROM THE ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS. 
Kathy Bums-GOD NEVER DOES STOP MAKING AAINBOWSI Anything you need, you got h. I'm behind you all the wayl CHEER UP MY DEAR I Your friend, Carofyn("lhe taU one1 
HEY, MIRIAM HIU Have a great dayl GOOD DAY MERRY SUNSHINE! J. you're the bestl Love,Crazy 

NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND WEEKEND OF FEB. 27·29. CAU MIRIAM AT 2687. 
Chrl• McCarthy I John Haley: Happy belatld 18th. May the Ioree be with 
you... 
'CRAZY' PAT MCMANUS 
Happy 218111111 
ENJOYII (and remember?) 

Love, the girls In 309 Farley 
LAURINE Ml888d our Sunday phone call .JA 
thank you St. Theresa for FAVORS granted. MMM 
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
JUGGLER Wanta to publlah your llctlon, poema, pl8y• art worka, end photoa. Bring to 301 O'Sheg. 0Mdll111: Frl, F1b. 27 
(Here's your peraonall) HAPPY BIRTHDAY( MIKE ARNOLD AND ERIC TIMPER­MAN HAPPY BIRTHDAYI 20 SHOTSfllfl (Maybe we'll share.) 
TIP I ARNIE HAPPY 20TH B·DAY Love & kl8888, 

Hey Sweetneas, What's up? Nothing now or before, but watch out, wa don1 want that portable heater overheaUngl By the way, can I have oome cheeoe please? 
KEN I KENT YOU JAMMED AND KEPT US ROCK· lNG AU WEEKEND ON THE NIGHTFlfGHT GREAT JOB II DO IT AGAIN SOON 
HELPI I NEED A AIDE TO THE PIT· TSBUAGKtATAOBE AREA FOR THIS WEEKEND (FEB. 27) I CAN LEAVE AT 10 AM FRIDAY. CAU MAUREEN AT 284-5230 
Mom & Dad: Thanks for a great JPW Jim 
JENI NAUGHTON Hey, datal Thanks for the fun time Sat. nhe. Hyou ever want to talk About Laat Night, you know wll&n~ to reach me. (Oooohl What will people think???) -Mark 
... ATTENTION SENIORS ... NOT READY TO GET ENGAGED? UNPREPARED TO SPEND $500 IN THE WINDY CITY THE WEEKEND AFTER PARTYING IT UP ALL SPRING BREAK? WE OFFER YOU AN AL TEANATIVE ·THE SOUTH BEND FORMAL. FOR A MERE $20COUPLE, YOU CAN ENJOY FOOD, DECORATIONS, PREMIUM BEER (HEINEKEN AND LOWENBAAU ON TAP), AND MUSIC BY THE ONLY OJ'S THAT MATTER, JUST 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. IT'S HAPPENING MARCH 28, LIMIT 100 COUPLES, FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE. TIX ON SALE FEB 25 AND 211, 3-5 P.M., IN LAFORTUNE. FOR MORE INFO CALL TITO 277.()973 OR PAT '07·3t687. MUST BE 21 BY 3-28. 
CONGAATS JULIEI I'm proud of youl Love, Gerry 
" I GUESS HE JUST DOESN'T DIG CHICKS OR SOMETHING." HAPPY B· DAYCUUSI 
Mo Shea: Sony, I'll be In Chicago lonlght. I'll meet you :oame place and oame time on Wedneaday.WAITING WITH AN· TICIPATION ... Soulh Dining Hall Admirer 
Elizabeth: Thanks for a wonderful JPW· -Gary, Amy, Carol, Kitty, Mel, Kerri, thanks for being oo nice, tooll Love, J. (Mom) E. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ENROU FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
P..... -nd Prot.uor llrooka' talk 
•nd dlacuulon on "llyatlcal Expari· ence In Judalam" on Wldnlday, l'lbnlery 211 a1 10:00 P.M. In 341 O'ShaughiiiH}'. Thle Ia for theology majcn end •II otMr ln-*1 par· aone. 
to that tall blond Hfeguard at the pool: Goah, you're gorgeous. Have you ever thought about writing your memoirs? 
AIDE NEEDED to CHICAGO, O'HARE, 
or NW SUBS on FAI FEB 27. Will ehare 
expenaeo. Call Lawrence at 3257. 
Rick, I mlao you already. Can we meet again, maybe oomepface warmer? Amazingly, lisa 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Offering you a wide oelectlon of unque anack llama and an aoaortment of glfla and handmade treaaurea. Open Mon· Sat, Located In the beaement of LeFor· tune 
HELPII I NEED A AIDE TO SOUTH CAROLINA, PAEFEAABL Y HILTON HEAD, FOR SPRING BREAK. CAU DAN£ 1177. 
TOASTMASTERS WILL MEET AT lpm -NOT 7pm ­WEDNESDAY IN RM 223 HAYES HEA· LY. 
Smurt, 1 know who you are and you know who I am but doea Papa Smurt knoW who he Ia? Who's Pebblea and BfUtta? Smur1­
Aide needed for two to Cleveland on 2/Z'T. PLEASE call Michelle Ill 264-5076 alter 6 p.m. 
Thanks for the Rat Joe. Love z 
Aide needed to Milwaukee leave v.16 return 3'1. Cal1264-5106 or 231-5370. 
Ride needad 1o Purdue any -kend. Call Heidi at 264-4319. 
Uke new Smith Corona Eleclrtc Type­writar: f0l81gn charact-aocents. Only $60. Call Prof. Meyerholer Ill 284-53111 daya or 289·1426 IMII. 
MARDI GRAS BALL Friday, 'r1 February 11187 Theodore's -7:00 PM to 2:00 AM 

-featuring Johnny Knon-and hla Qr. 
chestra (a 13-pleceawing band> until 
10:00 PM Coltume or formal a~:tire requested $3 adml.uion-lncludel maak Sponaored by the Notre Dame Chapel Choir, the Notre Dame Choral, and the SAD 
FREE DANCING LESSONS In preparation for the Mardi Gru Ball 4:00 pm to 1:00 pm at Theodore's Monday, Feb.:a tbru Tburadey, Feb.JS SIJOI*II'fJCI bJ the NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club 
r-~--~-----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 12 
Ski teams take sixth in Midwest Regionals 
Ending its season at the Midwest Regionals near Duluth, Minn., last weekend, the men's and wo­men's Ski Teams bOth placed sixth in their respec­tive brackets. 
Pat Eilers was the top finisher for the men's team, placing among the top fifteen in the giant slalom. Eric Kowalski, Joe Bride and Jeff Parker also turned in solid performances for the Irish. 
The Skendzel sisters, Kathy and Mary Beth, who had led the women's team for most of the season, continued to do the same thing at the regionals. Kathy Skendzel placed fourth in the giant slalom and seventh in the slalom, while Mary Beth Skendzel finished fifteenth in the giant slalom. Jane Heisel was another key contributor for the women's team. 
Neither team was able to qualify for nationals, as only the top three teams were able to advance. The men's team reached the regionals by placing third at the qualifiers, while the women's team received an at-large bid to the regionals. 
"I thought we skied pretty strongly. There were about fourteen or fifteen tough teams out there," said Kathy Skendzel. "We didn't qualify for nation­als, but we did very well overall." 

In last Friday's Indiana Intercollegiates at In­diana University, sophomore Theresa Rice of the Women's Track <!:Iub finished fourth in the 1000-yard run with a time of 2:41. 
Two of the runners ahead of Rice had NCAA­qualifying times, and Rice's time was about eight seconds off the NCAA pace. 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 
"She was the first underclassman to finish. It was outstanding," said Head Coach Dan Ryan. "She's beginning to blossom as one of the top middle dis­tance runners in Indiana. She's capable of winning anything between 800 and 1500." 
Notre Dame's will host the Notre Dame Invita­tional in the ACC North Dome this Saturday at 3 
p.m. The meet will include teams from Marquette, 
DePaul, Detroit, and Notre Dame. "We should do fairly well. Both DePaul and Mar­quette are very, very strong, and they'll be the favorites. It should be a very good meet," said Ryan. "We have some individuals who will do well. Theresa Rice should be in the hunt to win the 800, and Darlene Martin should do well in the sprinting events and shot put. We should do well in the shot put in general." 
The Men's Volleyball Club was brought back down to earth last Monday. Ball State, a varsity team ranked eighth in the nation, swept the Irish in three games. 
Notre Dame bounced back the next night to defeat Calvin College in four games, raising its record to 12-2. 
"The Ball State match was just ridiculous," said Club Secretary Steve Kranz. "They were a real strong team, and we just didn't show up. We couldn't do the basics right, and we got into all kinds of trouble. 
"We were ready to beat up on somebody, and we came back and played well (against Calvin). We jumped out to a big lead in the first game, and slacked off and lost it. Then we kind of took them apart in the next three games." 
Making a swing through Ohio this week, the Irish play at Ohio State on Thursday, at Ohio State­Marion on Friday, and at Miami (Ohio) on Satur­day. 

NDtennis drops two over weekend 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
Until a youthful Irish wo­men's tennis squad gains expe­rience, it will have to take its bumps and bruises along the way as they did against Wis­conson and Western Michigan this weekend. 
Wisconson, a team ranked in the nation's Top 30, swept the Irish, 9-0, on Friday. Head Coach Michele Gelfman was not disappointed, however, in the team's performance. 
"Our kids played their hearts out this weekend," said Gelfman. "Wisconson had an extremely tough line-up, and we simply got beat by a better team." 
In the Western Michigan match, the score was tied at the end of the singles competi­tion, 3-3, but the Irish doubles teams dropped the remaining matches, resulting in a 6-3loss. 
Alice Lohrer, Natalie Illig, and Julie Sullivan registered the Irish singles victories. Loh­rer and Illig both pulled out close three-set matches, Loh­rer by defeating Mindy Severt 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, and Illig by defeat­ing Sonya Garshrek, 3-6, 6-4, 6­
1. Sullivan then took care of Karen Goldstein,7-5,6-3. 
In the three Irish singles losses, Stephanie Tolstedt came up short against Marla Whitfield, 7-5, 6-0, Tammy Schmidt lost a tough three set­ter to Jan Weigard, 6-7 (2-7 tie­breaker), 6-3, 6-4, and Resa Kelly fell 6-1, 6-4 to Sheri Birndorf. 
Notre Dame was without the services of number-one singles and doubles player Michelle Dasso, and according to Gelfman, her abscence put the Irish at a disadvantage. 
"Michelle's not being there really hurt us, especially against Western Michigan," said Gelfman. "With her I felt we could have won one or two more singles matches and it would have definitely affected our doubles teams." 
Gelfman has yet to play a match with her full starting line-up in tact. 






----------~------~----------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987. 
page 13 
Gavin sets records, but frustrations mount over '87 season 



-

The Observer 1 File Photo Guard Mary Gavin Q<XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
x X 
X~ !M{ fT"f1 CfT"(7f r X~X 
r r
L u J L./1..J.....;

X x 
~ L 0 (j0 cO:J{PES'I ~ 
X X 
~ Designs needed for T-shirt ~ ~ and booklet cover. ~ ~ A $25 prize goes to the x ~ chosen design! ~ X ~ 
~ Submit designs to the An Tosto! office .Q ~ at the Student Activities Board, ~ ~ 2nd floor LaFortune, by March 6, 1987 x ~xxxxxxxxxx.xxxx.xxxxxx)l~~ 
Senior Formal 
Tuxedo Special 
Classic Black Tuxedo 

He~ularly $44"" 

All Other Tuxedos, Tails & Designer Tuxes 
Hegularly $49'0 -57"' 
4000_4600 
Measurements and style selection at LaFortune Student Center February 24th and 25th, 
6:00 to 9:00 P.M. 
Prices honored on orders taken at either Gilbert's Store through March 24th. 
One man tells another, it's 
•tiBtS
~ZJ W. Waoh0"90oa; Moo -foO. 9-5,3Q;Sao 9-5 University ParktMon.-Sat. I0-9tSun. 12-5 

By MIKE SZYMANSKI value to the team. 
Sports Writer "She is the most aggressive 
and mentally tough player 
To have an outstanding indi-here," says DiStanislao. "She 
vidual season despite a disap-has turned this into an asset." 
pointing team record can cause When team captain Lavetta 
the frustrations to mount, and Willis left, Gavin was thrust 
they have for Notre Dame wo-into a leadership position that 
men's basketball point guard she had not anticipated. It took 
Mary Gavin. a while for her to adjust. 
Gavin, a 5-6 junior from "(Willis' departure) put me 
Wildwood N.J., owns the Notre into the position to go out there 
Dame career assist record at everyday and be someone 
477 and is 20 steals from the people can look up to," says 
Notre Dame career theft Gavin. "And at first I was not 
record at 168. With an average ready for that because she was 
of 7.3 assists and 2.3 steals a always there and she was the 
game, she also averages 7.4 leader. When things got tough 
points a game, including a we went to Lavetta. 
recent six-game stretch in "I think I get better at moti­
which she has averaged 11.4 vation every game. At the 
points. In addition, she leads beginning, the way I went 
the team in minutes played at about it was I would yell at 
35 minutes per game. them instead of another ap-
Despite her efforts, Notre proach. It works for people to 
Dame stands at 8-15, weather-scream at me, but the team is 
ing a tough schedule, three so different that you have to 
team defections, injuries and take a different approach to 
inexperience. For a winner each one of them. 
such as Gavin, the situation is "Heidi (Bunek) needs a pat 
unsettling. on the back and mabye you can 
"I am still very bitter about yell at Diondra. A big part of 
the season because I'm sure all being a leader is to know how . the girls went into it setting our to treat different people." 
goals really high," says Gavin, Gavin does not consciously 
"and we had to lower them a concentrate on team leader­
lot more than I ever thought we ship. 
would have. And no matter how "It's got to come naturally 
good people think I might be because you cannot suddenly 
playing, it doesn't matter much say 'I will be a leader' and be 
when you are 8-15. effective. 
Though she downplays her "When I really don't feel like 
individual accomplishments at practicing, I look at myself and 
this time, other observers, such I think if I am just going to go 
as Notre Dame head coach out there and be lazy, them 
~M!!a~ry~D!l!.S!:ta~n~i~sl!a!o!;r!.!e~a~li!z!e!;h!.!e~r~w!h!a!;t~i~m~p:!r!e!:ss~i~on~w!i!:ll~I~·g~;:!:.!.:!:.:;o 
Happy 21st to "Crazy Pat" 
Hope your Birthday is Great! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mick and Dave 
February 24 
Now-enjoy a job for MBA's while studying to be one! 
liT's MBA with a Management Internship 
This full-time, five-semester, day program includes one semester in which qualified students are placed in a paid position with a cooperating Chicago corporation. Through internship you can gain valuable management experience and have the opportunity to advance to full-time employment with your internship company while earning a portion of your expenses. 
Your degree will be from liT, the university uniquely able to equip you for career advancement in the age of technology. 
This program is open to individuals with an undergraduate degree in any fiel.d. 
INQUIRE NOW! 
Ted Heagstedt Director of Full-Time MBA Programs ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY School of Business Administration 10 West 31 Street Chicago, Illinois 60616 
312/567-5140 

the freshmen and sophmores. My responsibility is to play hard so that they will play hard. 
"And I think that the biggest help is Coach has confidence in my ability to lead the other players. It has given me a lot of confidence to know that she's behind me, in my corner." 
The career records do not mean much to Gavin, whose love of the game, unselfishness and competitive will to win are apparent. 
"It shows that I would rather pass than shoot the ball," she says. "To me, a good pass is just as good as two points. Ac­tually, I would rather have a nice pass than a jump shot. 
"I think the way the offense is set up is to have me pass the ball. That's probably why I was recruited, so that's the way (DiStanislao) set it up. In pre­vious years with Trena Keys, it was my job just to get her the ball. 
"I know that I should shoot the ball more, but being here the first two years and being told to pass, pass, pass, and coming in my third year and being told to shoot was an ad­justment that I haven't made that well yet. But I have put it up more this year." 
Aside from her offensive skills, Gavin is extremely quick and tenacious on defense according to DiStanislao. 
"I never really thought I had as many steals as I do," says Gavin. "I have to give credit to Diondra because I know if I go out on a limb and miss the steal, she is always going to be there to back me up. It is im­portant to know in the back of my head that I can go out and take chances to get the ball. 
"I try to cut off passing lanes. I am not a quick person, but I have quick hands." 
At the beginning of the season, Gavin looked forward to the challenge of playing Rut­gers and other Top 10 teams in the nation. But as the season wore on, so did the excitement of a difficult schedule. "I guess you have to play Top 20 teams to be recognized as a good team when you are sup­posed to have a good year," she says, "but that can be tough. It could have really been a dif­ferent story. 
"The freshmen have gotten so much experience that next year they will be better prepared for situations. With three seniors on the team, we will have a lot of experience. 
"We have to gain confidence in each other, which we are starting to do now. That mat­ters a lot. First, it has to start with yourself, you have to have confidence in yourself.'' 
Off the court, the sacrifices 
of a Divison I player are de­
manding but well worth it all 
to Gavin. 
"It definitely cuts down on 
my social life because the 
season starts in September and 
ends in March. It's hard to go 
out and get ripped every 
weekend when you know that 
you have to get up Sunday mor­
ning and go to practice, and I 
mean practice hard. 
"Academically, it hurts 
when you are travelling. It is 
difficult to get anything done 
on the road, reading on a bus 
gives me a headache. 
"It (basketball) is definitely 
worth it. Itis something I would 
never give up. It's the feeling." 
~--­
1 
The Observer Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 14 
I 
Stanford-Manor game 
~ 
t 
highlights IH playoffs 
By BRIAN O'GARA 

t 
Sports Writer 

~ ~ 
~ It's crunch-time in the men's 
I interhall basketball world as 
I 
the playoffs get into full swing this week. Several key games are slated for tonight in both the A and B leagues. 
In the A-league, top-ranked Stanford and No. 2 Morrissey will clash at 8 p.m. (ACC Gym 2). The winner of this game clinches a spot in the A-league championship, which will be played at 6 p.m. on Thursday, March 3 in the ACC Pit. The loser enters the losers' bracket of the double-elimination tournament. 
Stanford (7-0, Big Sky Divi­sion Champs) and Morrissey (6-0, ACC Division Champs) drew first-round byes last week, while defending cham­pion Sorin (6-0, Big Ten Champs) defeated Dillon (4-2), 47-45, and Holy Cross (5-1) nipped St. Ed's (5-2), 45-43. 
On Sunday, Stanford downed Holy Cross, 63-55, and Morris­sey held on for a 41-35 victory over Sorin, setting up tonight's matchup. 
"This game will not be any different from any other game this season," said Morrissey coach Pete Kolettis. "Defense and rebounding are the things we do best and that's how we've won. And we can use ten people. I don't know if the other teams are as deep." 
In the losers' bracket, Dillon handed St. Ed's an early exit, 61-56, while Sorin and Holy Cross square off tonight at 7 (ACC, ct. 2) for the right to play Dillon on Thursday. The win­ner of Thursday's contest will battle the Morrissey-Stanford loser next Tuesday. The winner of that game will meet the Morrissey-Stanford winner for the A-league championship. 
In the winners' bracket of the 
B-league, only one game is 
scheduled tonight. Keenan (5­
1) will face the winner of last night's Grace-Dillon contest, with the winner advancing to a matchup with undefeated Sorin (6-0, Major Independents Champs). 

Sorin is 2-0 in the B-league playoffs, defeating Howard (4­2), 53-47, last week, and trip­ping Off Campus (5-l), 46-32, on Sunday. 
In other B-league action last week, Off Campus ripped Stan­ford (5-1), 72-47, Keenan trounced previously-unbeaten Cavanaugh (6-0, ECAC Champs), 62-40, and Grace (4­
2) edged into the final playoff spot by downing the Off Campus Hoobers (3-3), 50-42. 
"There are a lot of good teams out there this year,'' said Dillon B coach Charlie Elliott. "We've had some close games. I think we can play with anyone if we can continue to control the boards and our outside shooting (led by Mike and Bobby Raster) remains consis­
tent." , In the B-league losers bracket, Howard and Stanfo~d meet tonight, as will Cavanaugh am} the Grace­
Dillon loser. 

. d
Hand1cappe wrest1ers fall to IU, 41-9 
By STEVE 
MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Before Sunday's dual meet with Indiana started, it was announced that Irish coach Fran McCann was being inducted into the In­diana High School Wrestling Coaches Association Hall of Fame. It was about the only good news the Notre Dame wrestling team received all afternoon. 
Indiana took advantage of three Notre Dame forfeits, two pins, one superior deci­sion, and a major decision to coast past the Irish, 41-9. The loss in Notre Dame's last home meet of the season dropped the team's dual meet record to 1-11. 
"We could have won more matches than we did, but we're not upset with the desire our guys have," said Assistant Coach Ricky Stewart. "It's kind of dis­couraging when you get out­manned." 

Senior Dave Helmer, in his last home match for the Irish, won on a major deci­sion, and 134-pound soph­homore Jerry Durso was the only other Notre Dame win­ner. Sophomore 126-pound Dave Carlin pulled out a draw in his match. 
"He (Helmer) wrestled well," said Stewart. "He hasn't done the things on the mat that he does in practice. Once he gets some confi­dence, he wrestles well." 
Notre Dame expected to forfeit the 142-pound match and the 190-pound match be­cause of injuries to Pat Boyd and Tom Ryan. The Irish ended up also having to for­feit the 167-pound match when Chris Geneser was forced to miss yesterday's meet. Geneser had a recur­rence of a knee injury that kept him sidelined earlier in the season. 
If there Is racism In America, why Is The Cosby Show #1? If there Isn't racism in America, why is there a Forsythe County, Ga.? 
"Does Racism Explain Everything?" WALTER WILLIAMS Tuesday, February 24 4:15pm Cushing Hall Auditorium 
One of the most innovative and influential thinkers on Black socio-economic issues 
Spring Break in: 
I 

!lt!il! IW-ffi!J 
Featuring the RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL ON THE BEACH RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF THE STRIP! 
YOU DRIVE: $189.00 WITH TRANSPORTATION: $279.00 \ 
Sign up at desk n_ext to Irish Gardens Mon-Fr1: 3pm to 5pm 
Limited SP-aces Available~ -, DEADLINE: FEB 27 
.. 
Sponsored b SAB 


Goals 
continuedfrompage/6 
the overall play of his squad, but feels the luck of the Irish just skipped past his team's doer. 
"It certainly wasn't all luck," said Smith. "I mean, we put 46 shots on goal, two of them directed at an open net, and we still only got three goals out of it, which just isn't enough. But one of (Lake For­est's) goals bounced in off of one of our defensemen's skates and another one was knocked in by a falling player after our goalie made a nice save. 
"Position-wise, we might have played the best series of hockey that we've had in the last two months, but we just keep looking up at that big black cloud over our heads." 




Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


Beer Nuts 
Campus 
Display on Filipino culture and original artwork by Maria Ojascastro, SMC stu­dent, sponsored by the "Philippine Aware­ness Week," Great Hall, Lemans Hall 
12:10 p.m.: Lecture (Noontalk Series) "Todd Webb: Photographs of New York and Paris, 1945-1960", by Prof. Dick Stevens Notre Dame Dept. of Art, Art His­tory and Design, Snite Museum 
12:30 -1:30 p.m.: Dept of Finance and Business Economics Faculty Forum "Government Intervention and Individual Freedom," by Dr. Walter Williams, George Mason University, 122 Hayes­Healy 
3:00 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate seminar "The Interplay of Electron Flow, ATP Balances, Bioreactor Conditions and Product Formation in the 
Acetone-Butanol  Fermentation,"  by  
Charles  Meyer,  Rice  University,  356  
Fitzpatrick  

3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Ad­vanced Word, 108 Computing Center, limit 
10. To register, call Betty 239-5604 4:00-6:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar "Impressions of Cuba," by Anthony Ker­rigan, senior guest scholar, Kellogg In­stitute, 151 Decio 
4:15 -5:30p.m.: UND Minority Affairs Lecture "Does Racism Explain Every­thing?" by Prof. Walter Williams, Cus­hing Hall Auditorium (Old Engineering Auditorium). 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar "Hyperammonemias," by Dr. Ira Brandt, Indiana University, School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
S~resents: 
Tomorrow and Thursday Maltese Falcon 
7, 9, 11 pm Friday and Saturday $1.00 
9 112 Weeks 7' 9:15, 11:30
·EG Auditorium 
.J$1.50 . ABSOLUTELY NO ALC OL ALLOWED 
IT's AN/JJ WIII?J{O(S CEAT/.1, 
NAkV. II( WAS 8R.tANS llXJL. 
>t?U KNOW, A,NTI-E:SfABUSH­11[}(T AND ALL TH4( II£ :S BEEN A UWBI£ EVER StNC~ H£ HfltRIJ. 
-BY Tilt::-wAr, t.JifAT 010 YOIJ 
IJANP I 

4:30 -6: 30 p.m. : Modern Language Dept. Lecture "The Emerald, Object of Desire in Victor Hugo's Notre Dame de Paris," by Dr. Gilbert Chaitin, Indiana Univer­sity, Bloomington, Library Lounge 6:15p.m.: Sigma XI Dinner and Lecture $10.00, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, 8:00p.m. lecture: "Science, Technology and the Pursuit of Good," by Prof. Vaughn McKim, ND 
6:30 -7:30 p.m.: Counseling Center Workshop Theme: Singing the Blues: Giving Voice to Your Depression, lecture and discussion with Pam Nath and Rita Donley, ND Counseling Center, Annapolis Room, LaFortune Student Center 7:00, 9:00, 11:00: Movie,"Maltese Fal­con,'' Engineering Auditorium 
7:00 
-9:00 p.m.: Information on the London-Rome Program Dr. Anthony Black, SMC, Carroll Auditorium 7:00-8:30p.m.: SMC Alcohol Awareness Week Lecture "Bouncing Back." Stapleton Lounge 

7:00 
-9:30 p.m.: Off-Campus Housing Night, up to date information and accom­panying representatives of the area's major apartment complexes are avail­able, sponsored by Student Government, main lobby of LaFortune 


7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series "Manhattan," 1979, Black and White, cinemascope, 96 minutes, directed by Woody Allen, Annenberg Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Basketball NDW vs. Northern Illinois, ACC 
8:00 p.m.: Theology Lecture "Liberation Theology: Questo Disputata," by Prof. Enrique Dussel, Visiting Professor of The­ology and Coordinator of Working Com­mission of Church history in the Third 
World (Mexico City). 124 CSC 
JUST 5Df1£ f:XTR.A rCOD rY? SOUP CANS ... C.AMBEU's 'IOU 11/GHT /lAVE 'ECJV? 
7

Tf.l€1 1)()/'(T HAVE li~S ?J. 
TO B£ 'C:i+ffBElJ...s'-ANrTIIIN& U tXJ.
' / 
Mark Williams 
WI/AT'/) [ SAY ? WIIH'o I S'AY ? 
I 
' I ­
~-CRASII -_
f:(~~~ -' I 

Date: Friday, February 27 Dress: Formal or Masquerade Time: 7 pm to 10 pm -Masks for everyone Where: Theodore's -Helium balloons Tickets: $3 Students, $5 Adults -Beverages & Snacks 
-Door prizes Tickets go on sale 2'16 -2127 at the department of Music in Riley Hall and the Student Activities Board on 2nd floor in Lafortune . 
•AJso--2t23(Mon.)-b26(Thurs.) there will be ballroom dancing lessons at Theodore's from 4 pm-5 pm. 
I \ , ' 
\I 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Bridge support &Snakes 
10 Deception 14 Artery 15 Cabbage dish 16 Vegetable 17 Palindromic 
title 18 Locale 19 Robert­20 Dawdle In a 
way 23 Small bit 24 Amerind 25 Bistro 
counters 28 Eyes 31 Leaf aperture 35 Bauxite e.g. 36 Winglike 37 Hawkeye 38 Not in con­

tention 42 David's weapon ..,..,._+--+--+-­
43 "-but the  
brave.••"  
44 Comp. dir. 45 Train  "'1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

46 Previously owned 6 Helper: abbr. 47 Culture 7 Narrow crack 
medium 8 Pity 48 Old diner sign 9 Heart or pea 50 Former alii-10 Closet item? 
ance letters 11 Aureole 52 Poor grammar 12 Guinness 59 Tel-13 "Blessed are 60 At a distance the -" 61 Accra's land 21 Hardware item 63 Hereditary 22 Trigonometry 
factor term 64 Mystical poem 25 Promote 65 Vanquished one 26 As ­66 Ger. region (usually) 67 Assassinate 27 Anatomical 68 Computer networks 
direction 29 Stadium sound 30 Submachine 
DOWN  guns  41 Excessive  
1 Scot. cap  32 Due  46 Beneficial  
2 Jungle sound  33 Wilderness  47 Athenian  
3 Pakistani  diet  magistrate  
language 4 Tripods  34 lndlgnaUon 36 Swift hound  49 Despots 51 Obtuae or  
5 Pacific  39 Quick cleaning  acute  
Islands  40 Fish eggs  52 Tatters  

The Notre Dame Chapel Choir & Chorale and the Student Activities Board present a MARDI GRAS BALL 
with Johnny Knorr and his 13 piece Orchestra 
"Zelda! Cool II! ... The Rothenbergs hear the can opener!" 

53 Eye part 54 Famed caravel 55 Zola heroine 56 Canasta 
card 57 Orient 5I Snlcker­82 Depot Info 


The Observer I Mike Moran 
-

Belles forward Lisa McGrath prepares to launch one from the charity stripe in Saint Mary's basketball action last night. 
Kalamazoo edges SMC 
By ANDREA and we have a game in between LaFRENIERE on Wednesday. We had to make a decision whether this game
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

was more important than dis­
The Saint Mary's varsity tricts. basketball team dropped to 11-7 "The game allowed some of last night, losing a close game our people to play under pres­to Kalamazoo by a score of 55-sure, but unfortunately we 
54. came out on the short end." 
The Belles, who are looking Kalamazoo took an early to tonight's district play at lead in the game, but the Belles Manchester College, used last kept within four points of the night's game as an opportunity opponent and caught them at to let bench players see more the half to tie the score at 28-28. action while its starting Saint Mary's took the lead players took a brief rest, accor­early in the second half, but ding to Head Coach Marv Kalamazoo stayed with the Woods. Belles, and in the last few 
"We play in the districts minutes of the game took the (tonight)," he said. "If we win, lead and held on to win the we play again on Thursday, game. 
Tuesday, February 24, 1987-page 16 
Fallon gets SOOth in final season as men's tennis dumps Toledo, 7-2 
Special to The Observer DeCicco just got his 500th over Reiter by an 8-5 score. Notre the weekend as well." Dame took the last two con­Tom Fallon is making sure Notre Dame singles winners tests, however, as Wallace and he steps out in style. included Dave Reiter over Walsh took Draxl and Kelly, 9­
In his last year as men's ten­Toledo's Todd Dominiak, 9-7, 7, and Daggs and Kalbas nis coach at Notre Dame, a po­Brian Kalbas over Matt Kelly, blanked Ide and Craig Kobren, sition he has held since 1957, 7-2, Mike Wallace over Brian 8-0. Fallon has hit yet another mile­Draxl, 8-3, Dan Walsh over The Irish upped their record stone: his SOOth win. Charles Ide, 8-3, and Paul to 6-3 with the victory. 
That victory came at Elkhart Daggs over Jamie Mcintosh. "Having two coaches with Racquet Club on Saturday, as The Rockets took the 500 speaks well for the non­the Irish dumped Toledo by a number-one singles match, revenue sports," Fallon said. 7-2 score. however, as top Irish player "The next 500 is going to be a 
"It's a great feeling to get Tim Carr dropped an 8-6 deci­little tougher though." number 500," Fallon said. "I sion to Brad Minns. The Irish travel to Columbus, would have preferred us to play In doubles, Toledo also took Ohio, to face the Buckeyes of a better match, but I guess I'm the top match, as Minns and Ohio State Saturday and Ohio in good company since Mike Dominiak ousted Carr and University Sunday. 
Brown outduels Woodson in. 300 
By PETE GEGEN are restricted to the 60-yard ing as all-Americans. Assistant Sports Editor dash and a leg in the mile relay. "We haven't seem to be able His 48-second clocking spurred to run the 880 well," said Piane. 
Another impressive perfor­the mile relay to second place "We run the 1000, mile and 600 mance by speedster Tim in the meet. well, but we have a bit of a let­Brown led the Irish indoor The distance crew added down when it comes to the 880." track team to a third-place solid support in the mile, two In the sprints, Glenn Watson showing in the Indiana Inter­mile and 1000-yard runs. David continued to run well, placing collegiates. The Irish were Warth and Nick Sparks third in the 60-yard high edged by Purdue, 101-98, for finished two-three in the 1000-hurdles. And Chris McGuire second place, while Indiana yard run and qualified for the and Milt Jackson both placed won the meet. But the Irish IC4A's with times of 2: 10.15 and in the 440-yard dash. would not have been as close if 2:10.53 respectively. And Dan The Irish also picked up it weren't for the performances Garrett and Ron Markezich points in the field events. of Brown and the distance repeated the placings in the Xavier Victor placed third and crew. two-mile with times of 9:04 for qualified for the IC4A's with his 
Brown began the meet by both. jump of 23-6, and Tom Kraus taking the 60-yard dash. Then Mike O'Connor finished took third in the shot put with in the 300-yard dash, Brown second in the mile with a 4:08, a toss of 53-8 1;2. Finally, Rick faced another football star, and co-captain Robert Nobles Muench finished fifth in the Purdue's Rod Woodson. But took third in the 600-yard run. triple jump. Brown prevailed in the head­A growing problem for the Besides the 880, the Irish to-head race, winning with a Irish this season has been the failed to score in the pole vault time of 30.06. team's performance in the 880-and the high jump. Piane, 
"Most people thought Wood­yard run. Mike Rogan and Paul though, has been happy with 
son would walk away with it," Duvair failed to place in the the progress of his team in all 
said Head Coach Joe Piane. meet,andtheteamlearnedlast areas. 
"Tim clearly beat him. He weekend that co-captain Jeff 
probably had the best meet Van Wie, an all-American in "It's been a very successful 
overall of anyone there." the two-mile relay, has been season," he said. "I was rela­
Unfortunately for Brown, the lost for the season with two tively pleased with the way the 
NCAA does not include the 300-stress fractures in the tibia. r1eet went, but I would have 
yard dash in its indoor cham­This development all but kills l 1ved to have had a few more 
pionships, so Brown's chances the team's chances of repeat-IJ.>ints." 



Goals elude Irish icers as Foresters take two 
By PETE SKIKO In Friday night's game, the Sports Writer Irish played well early, scoring three goals in the first period The Notre Dame hockey and leading 4-1 at the end of team dropped a pair of games two periods. But they sat back to Lake Forest over the and watched as the Foresters weekend, losing 5-4 in overtime came back to score three un­on Friday night and 5-3 on Sat­answered third-period goals. urday. Then, according to Smith, they 
To say the least, Head Coach literally watched Lake Forest Lefty Smith was a mite disap­win it midway through the pointed. overtime. 
"We came into the series "We played super in the first looking to improve in three · period Friday night," said areas," said Smith. "And we Smith. "But after that we actually did improve on two of slowly started to go into a shell­them. We gave up only one -not playing aggressive hockey, power play goal, which is but trying to protect our lead. great. We scored four goals off You just can't do that when you of our power play, which is play as well as we did early. great, too. By the time the overtime rolled 
"But we only scored three around, we had forgotten how other times in both games, and to play aggressively." considering that we played The Irish once again both games almost completely dominated play on Saturday, in their end and that we outshot but goals continued to elude 
Tbe OblenrerI Greg Kobi 

them by the wide margin that them. Smith couldn't criticize Irllb co-eaptain Mike MeNefll (%2) ud tbe est lut weebad. The result was a two-game we did, that kind of lack of rest of Ute lrilb boekey team bad trouble sweep by &lie Forester..
•GOALS,papt•
ICOring ia ltill ridiculous." ,.wacUte puek lD t1ae aet agaiu& Lake FOI'· 



