
Sunny and Warm -b­
,,'
Mostly sunny today with a high in the upper 70s. Increasing clouds tonight with a low in the middle 50s. Clouds will remain through 
IACCENT: Adopt-A-Nun 
[VIEWPOINT: Coping with Vietnam 
Tuesday. 
t:o. ;, '~ D.-\Mf; CO: · .~ T•,)N 

VOL. XXI, NO. 120 C.. 1. S :J MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Suspect caught in Beauchampslayings 
Associated Press Edward Beauchamp, 75, and 
Marion Beauchamp, 14, were 
MECOSTA; Mich.-A suspect the parents of E. William Beau­in .the slayings of the parents champ, second in command be­of Notre Dame Executive Vice hind Notre Dame President Fa­President Father E. William ther Edward Malloy. Services Beauchamp was arrested Sun­for the couple were held day at a cabin near here, Mic­Friday. higan State Police said. The victims were found 
Police also arrested a woman strangled in their bed following who had accompanied the a break-in at their home in suspect in recent days in west­Ferndale, located across ern Lower Michigan and also Detroit's northern border, and recovered a car belonging to a suspect was seen fleeing in the victims, Edward and their 1983 Oldsmobile Cutlass, Marion Beauchamp of authorities said. · Ferndale, Lt. Tom Powers Powers said the female said. suspect on Thursday went to a 
The woman was being held grocery store in Morley in Sunday in the Mecosta County Mecosta County and cashed Jail, and the male suspect was two checks later determined to being returned to Ferndale, have been stolen from a car in where he was expected to be the Beauchamps' neighbor­arraigned on open murder and hood about the same time they robbery charges in the Sept. 8 were slain. slayings, Powers said. The woman went to the same 
Neither suspect's name was store Friday and tried to cash released pending arraignment. another check from the same But Powers said the male was account, Powers said. The 
I 
a 30-year-old carnival worker store owner tried to detain her 
whose last known address was and summoned state police, 

Vietnam frees 6,685 prisonersin Youngstown, Ohio, and the female was a 26-year-old Associated Press Bangkok. "However, the gov­ernment was first proclaimed
see SLAVING, page 5

Miami resident. ernment applied a lenient in North Vietnam. BANGKOK, Thailand -policy toward them by sending It said 365 prisoners were Vietnam is releasing 6,685 them to re-education camps. In released in Ho Chi Minh City
DOD requests rejected 
prisoners, including generals the process, they have shown -formerly Saigon -where aut­and senior officials of the South their resolve to mend their horities "provided material Vietnamese regime it toppled ways." and moral conditions for their
despite Weinberger plea 
in 1975, the official Vietnam Mter the communist victory quick reintegration into social News Agency said Sunday. over South Vietnam in 1975 fol­life."
Associated Press paring for the visit to Washing­lowing the withdrawal of U.S. Hanoi has in the past re­ton this week by Soviet Foreign The agency said the commu­forces, tens of thousands of ported releases of re-educationWASHINGTON -President Minister Eduard nist government ordered the South Vietnamese were sent to inmates but did not provide the Reagan last week rejected Shevardnadze, with arms con­amnesty and reduced the re-education camps. Some details carried in Sunday'spleas by Defense Secretary trol the top item on the agenda. 

Caspar Weinberger to exclude terms for 5,320 other prisoners were released after a few days, report.
According to the unidentified to mark two anniversaries. It others after years. Those The report did not spell outmedium-range missiles with defense officials quoted by the 

non-nuclear warheads from said some of the prisoners termed "diehards" by Hanoi what the prisoners had done to 
Post, the Pentagon wants to already were freed. have been incarcerated since warrant incarceration.
any arms control agreement prevent any agreement from 

with the Soviets, The Washing­interfering with an Air Force Among those granted am­the victory. After their victory, the com­
nesty were 480 military and ci­Hanoi officials said recently munists set up a network of upton Post reported in its Sunday effort to develop a "boost-glide vilian personnel of the former that about 7,000 people to 100 re-education camps that editions. vehicle" for deployment in South Vietnamese govern­remained in re-education. critics described as the "Viet­Reagan's last-minute deci­Western Europe by the late ment, including two ministers, namese Gulag."
sion on that and other Pentagon 1990s. 
18 administrative officials, The official news agency's In 1980, Hanoi told the

requests illustrates his wish to The ground-launched vehicle move quickly on an agreement could skim over Eastern nine officers of general rank, report said the Council of Min­London-based human rights or­
248 field officers and 117 junior ganization Amnesty Interna­

with the Soviets and possibly Europe and the Soviet Union at isters granted the amnesty to 
officers, it said. mark National Day Sept. 2 and tional that 1 million peoplehold a summit this year, the speeds of up to 12,000 miles an 

newspaper reported, quoting "They were all convicted of the 42nd anniversary Aug. 19 of underwent short re-education
hour, dropping weapons or crimes against the people," Vietnam's "August Revolu-' courses and 40,000 wereunidentified U.S. officials. taking pictures along the way, 

The administration is pre-said the agency, monitored in tion," when a communist gov-detained for longer periods. 
the newspaper said. 



Local residents: ND parties too 'messy' and 'loud' 
By ANN MARIE DUR­add that not all off-campus North Frances St. you're really raping the city Everything goes outside, beer NING students fit this characteriza­Most of the residents' com­and the neighborhood," said cans, McDonald's bags. Just Assistant News Editor tion, noting that many volun­plaints center on off-campus Arthur Quigley, president of take a walk . . . and look," teer their services to the student parties. the Northeast Neighborhood said Beck. She added her 
Editor's note: This is the community and throw more 
Council and professor friends quip the end of sum­third in a series of three moderate parties. Neverthe­emeritus of engineering at mer means the beginning of stories concerning off­less, those who live closest to Notre Dame. He elaborated, the garbage around her neigh­campus living in the North­students are the most critical The "You don't have toilet borhood. east Neighborhood. of them. Northeast facilities, etc . . . for them." Quiley said that often the 
"Inconsiderate" and "ir­"The (students) that live Neighborhood Residents cited trash area outside Notre Dame responsible" is how many down on Notre Dame Ave., strewn over students' lawns Ave. Apartments remains a permanent residents of the and Corby and some on St. on days following parties and "mess" from the weekend un­
Northeast Neighborhood Louis . . . those are the boys late-night noise as the worst til Tuesday or Wednesday. describe their student neigh­that give the neighborhood "If you have a house built problems. Several residents say they bors. and and Notre Dame a bad for one family and you have "The trash is just ab­
see PARTIES, page 3
Most residents are quick to name," said Phyllis Beck of a party with 300 or 400 people, solutely a bit too much. 
• 

In Brief 
Senator Daniel Moynihan, of New York, said Saturday that one-half of the Senate has signed on to co­sponsor a sweeping welfare reform bill. I~ it,. states would be ~equired to set up w1thm three years a JOb opportunities and basic skills program that would be .... mandatory for many welfare recipients, including mothers of childr.e~ age 3 or older. The five year, $2.3 bllhon proposal would replace Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the w~l~are sys.t~m now serving nearly ~.8 .mllhon families. Moynihan said, "It IS time to replace welfare with a system wh~re ~arents take responsibility for their children, and society helps them do so." -Associated Press. 

Of Interest 
The lt~li~n Club will be holding an orgamzatwnal meeting tonight at 7 p..m. in ~he Library Lounge. All those with an mterest in Italian culture are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Pre-Law society invites you to a~tend our first organizational ~eetmg of the year tonight at 7 p.m. m the Library auditorium. -The Obser­ver 
Natural Family Planning 
Program of St. Joseph County will offer 
"An Introduction to Nat ural Family 
Planning" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium. A slide show 
and lecture will describe the methods 
followed by a question and answer per­
iod. The presentation is free and open 
to anyone interested. In addition, the 
program will also offer a class series 
on how to practice the methods to en­
gaged and married couples starting 
Wednesday. To register, call 277-8807 
or 237-7401. Both events are co­
sponsored by Campus Ministry. -The Observer 
AIESEC will hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. All mem­bers as well as anyone interested in in­ternational business and travel are en­couraged to attend. -The Observer 
An interview training workshop given by Susan Jensen, College Rela­tions Officer from the Travelers Insur­ance Company, will be held in the Career and Placement Services office from 4-5 p.m. Open to seniors of all majors. ! The Observer 
Rock Over London this week features some new music from several old names, including new releases from Van Morrison, Pink Floyd, and Eric Clapton. You can hear it all on Nocture Nightflight tonight at midnight on WSND-FM 88.9. -The Observer 
What Toastmasters can do for you -find out tonight at 7 p.m. in the Little Theatre of O'Laughlin Auditorium. Dr. Herb True will speak. For further information, call Bridget at 284-4389 or Lisa and Jean at 284-5110. 
The Observer 

Design Editor ........ Jane Anne Riedford Accent Copy Editor ...... Kathy Scarbeck Design Assistant .. .. ... ... ... . Lisa Tugman Accent Layout ........... Katy Kronenberg Typesetters .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. Michael Buc Typists... . .. .. .. .. Jennifer Conlon 
............. Daniel Cahill ........................................ Karen Vossen News Editor... Chris Julka ND Day Editor ............ Beth Cornwell Copy Editor .................... Rachel Jarosh ............................................. Maria Doli Sports Copy Editor ........... Brian O'Gara Photographer... .. ...... Sandy Cerimele 
\fiewpoint Copy Editor .... Brian Conway .............................................. Greg Kohs 
Viewpoint Layout ............. Heidi Traxler 
~ Ot.lnet" (US~ S99 ~-<4000) is published Monday throuah Friday exceptdur_ma ~ and vacation pmods. ne Ot.lnel' is published by the students of the Umvenaty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina ne Olleenet" P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. ' ' 
'llle ot.ner is a member or ne A.odaiM rn.. All reproduction riabts are reserved. 

The eternal question: Is PLS for real? 
There is a small group of students on the Notre Dame campus who are con­tinuously abused, tormented and misunderstood by their peers. Even though outwardly they appear like anyone else, their lifestyle and beliefs 
the

constantly make them target of ridicule and hate. I know. I am one of them. I am a PLS major. 
"What is a PLS major?" you ask. No one is certain but there are many theories. The major itself is described in the student course guide as, "The Program of Liberal Studies: a multi­faceted multidisciplinary multidimen­sional mishmash which links, inter­elates, meshes, fuses, and unites everything and nothing, being and non­being, form and matter, life and death, Judge Bork and feminists, oil and water, and spam and jello. Course con­tent may, or may not, include metap­hysics, twinkies, the pill, vegetarianism, gargoyles, hubris and evolution." 
Most students are more direct in their explanations of what the PLS in "PLS student" stands for. They affec­tionately refer to us as: Pieces of lazy s---, Psuedo-Literary Snobs, People (who) Like Sleep or Plato's little sop­hists. They also claim that: our Per­sonality Lacks Substance, we Prefer Little Study, and we have Pathetically Loose Standards 
You may have actually crossed paths with a PLS student. We are not hard to spot. Generally, we tend to amble with­out direction across the quad. We use words like "non sequitur" and "moder­nity" in long, qualified statements ut­tered in hushed tones, and we also habitually ruminate in public while oc-. casionally exclaiming "Why?!" for no apparent reason. 
The question "why?" is the essence of the PLS student. He wants to know why he's studying Plutarch. He wants to know why he's studying. He wants to know why he's he and Plutarch isn't studying him. 
The PLS student knows hundreds of unanswerable questions; in fact he knows nothing else. Except, of course, he knows that he knows nothing else. He doesn't know how to adjust an in­come tax statement, and yet he regards business majors as the mental equivalent of assembly line workers -­neglected assembly line workers at that. 
At this point you may be tempted to ask (if you are a PLS student you cer­tainly will ask) "Why are you rambling about PLS?" 
Mike Naughton 
Accent Editor 



Well, my fellow Athenians --I mean Domers, I have just come from the lofty peaks of contemplation at the annual Program of Liberal Studies picnic at the Pottowami zoo and feel that it is my duty to share the truth 
Contrary to popular belief, we of the PLS inclination do know how to relax and have a good time. In fact we work very hard at enjoying our leisure and take great pride (that is justifiable p~ide ~s opposed to the other, nasty, kmd.) m our games and festivals. If the truth be known --and once again, for my peers, I should admit that the truth might not be known --if the truth be known, our picnic yesterday was just like any other picnic. We did not sit and brood together in the grass. No one brought a lyre. The poetry reading was kept to a minimum. 
Instead, we played modern sports like football, softball and volleyball. We ~rolicked i~ the sun and enjoyed the day m ~very simple and nonreflective way. I did not hear the "A-word" (Aristotle) once. 
Some of you may have actually been at the picnic and do not have a recol­lection of the events which coincide with mine. In fact, you might say that I am making most of this up. 
That is your right. You perceive reality your way, I'll perceive it mine. 



When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 
1.50 $1.00 
North Village Mall US 33 North 277-1877 
Mugs of Margaritas and Cover with Notre Dame'St. Mary's ID 
Monday, September 14, 1987 

Robertson sweeps GOP straw poll 
Associated Press Bush's Iowa campaign 
manager. 

Ames, lOWA -Television "He (Robertson) got a lot of evangelist Pat Robertson gave respect tonight from the other his backers an emotional candidates," said Dole spokes­charge with a call for "moral man Steve Roberts. "He's a strength" and won an easy vic­force to be reckoned with." tory in a straw poll of activists who gathered to listen to seven Most polls have shown Bush GOP presidential hopefuls. and Dole locked in a close race 
Robertson got a third of the in Iowa, with the other candi­votes in the straw poll Saturday dates trailing far behind. While at the state GOP's "Cavalcade Bush leads in most national of Stars,'' outdistancing Senate polls, Dole has built a strong Republican Leader Bob Dole organization in Iowa, which and Vice President George holds an important early test Bush. Former Secretary of of the candidates' ambitions State Alexander Haig was the with its Feb. 8 precinct only candidate who did not at­caucuses. tend the state GOP's "Caval­cade of Stars." Robertson got 33.6 percent of 
"I was surprised and I was the votes, compared to Dole's impressed," said Iowa Repub­24.9 percent and Bush's 22.4 lican Chairman Michael percent. Rep. Jack Kemp of Mahaffey. "They (Robertson New York was favored by 13.5 backers) were able to marshal percent while former Dela­their forces." ware Gov. Pierre du Pont got 
"He is a serious candidate support from 4.1 percent. 

and this is another indication Haig and little-known candi­
of the seriousness of his can­dates Ben Fernandez and Kate 
didacy," said George Wittgraf, Heslop were under 1 percent. 
BUS TRANSPORTATION, 
••CHARTER SERVICE ** 
' 
•SHUTTLE SERVICE** 
Reasonable Rates Call 259-9506 anytime 




arties 
continued from page 1 
wouldn't mind students throwing parties, as long as they were occasional and moderate. 
In contrast to the image of off-campus students as incon­siderate of their neighbors, ser­veral staff members of the Northeast Neighborhood Center, praised Notre Dame students for their service to the community. 
Painting houses, visiting the elderly and helping with the Northeast Neighborhood party sponsored by the senior class, 
TheObserveVTrayReymond 
Father Beauchamp and his family throughout the week. 


The Tl Business Analyst,Solar has all the right functions to help you get down to business. 
Is your present calculator good enough to make it in business? Prob­ably not. That's why we made the TI BA-Solar. The BA-Solar provides you with preprogrammed functions for the interest, loans, real estate, bond, pricing and profit problems you'll find throughout your business courses. 

The BA-Solar speeds you through your assignments because the preprogrammed functions execute many business formulas at the push of a single key. 


Good 
And not only does the BA-Solar give you higher finance, it gives you higher technology. The TI BA-Solar is the only financial calculator with solar capabilities. Thanks to TI's Any lite SolarT'1 technology, you can use the BA-Solar in any low light cond!tions. 
So get your ;lwn BA-Solar at your 
are the "kind of things which really make a difference and bridge the gap" between the students and permanent resi­dents, said Quigley. 
However, other residents did not seem as positive about their experiences with off-campus students. 
Melba Ross, 1148 East Corby Blvd., said that while she was collecting in the neighborhood for a charity, many students declined to contribute. They described themselves as only transient members and so did not contribute to the communi­ty, she said. 
Many residents said the stu­dents often suffered as a result of their own irresponsibility when they became the victims of robberies. 
"Crime is liable to occur in any place where people are careless," said Quigley. 
Residents said they felt the robberies were committed by people from outside the imme­diate neighborhood who know that many students have valu­ables which would be easy to sell. 
"Crime disturbs me as a community member. I don't care to hear about ND students or anybody being harmed," said Ross. 
12:00 noon * WVFI D.J. 
sundae!, *DENNY 

1:00 p.m. *Scavenger 
Prizes donated 
plants, albums, LOOK FOR CLUE #1 OR IN LA 
Main Lobby 1:00-4:00 p.m. 1 :00-? * NEW 4:00-6:00 p.m. * WVFI 
5:00 p.m. * DENNY 
7:00 P.M. 

9:30 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. * 
SPONSORED By 0 FFIC£ OF STUQ£'!\..1
I I I 
1T ACTIV/ T I£S 
AND STUDENT _ 
§'UNION 

~ ~~-~ 
~~l:lf.;;11;r ~j~l ·r~ll!j:~~ ~r fi:m~-. 
,-:: ' i·l'~lll ·'·,II' 
~-.. --=>II' ~ir :~~lp·~;:i I. :::!t· ~" ~ -c:r-..:.: !II; :i~u ~~!~·I· 'iii' :•I 1:: : ~~ tl 0 o.;. I' 
~ ;I'~ ,,. : :; • ~ l ; -I ,..,...11.11::!~~ I ~ I . ·.· ~I
~ ~ 

~~ t~1t\J ~ ~-r..=. A~i---­
0

Ull!illl!li\ ~-.._~--~ ~t1 b 
-=<!::~ 'tl': ,.l . . ,j-~ ~ ::::» . -­
~~...............

.-. -... -...... ..-.: :-:· ..· .-:. ...·::-~ .......... ~ 
LA FORTUNE OPEN HOUSE 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 
outside, Fieldhouse Mall 
* A Pool full of ice cream to make your own Fieldhouse Mall 
LEE, Illusionist, teaser, Main Lobby Hunt throughout LaFortune 
by LaFortune businesses: food certificates, $50 savings bond, gift certificates, and more IN MONDAY'S OBSERVER FORTUNE MAIN LOBBY 
* DENNY LEE, Illusionist, Magic Workshop, · · 
* THEODORE'S OPEN TV Lounge Open-Lower Level 
D.J. -Fieldhouse Mall LEE, ILLUSIONIST, MAIN PERFORMANCE *Alpha Omega Players present 
"Barefoot in the Park" Notre Dame Room Theodore's Open, Campus D.J. 
CLUE 1 Sharethefunofascavengerhunt, So take a walk to the student Give all of your friends the word, center, To join in the search, Don't listen to any lies, Not hang in the lurch, Just look for the place Or they might lose the reward. Where money is kept safe, And you might win a surprise.
Jt-~ ::-,.. J) ~ BOARD ~~~LJ-~ -:·.. ~, " 5 
-M-= ~ --=~ -~ ~ ~ r--~ ~ ~~ rlo
~:t ~2.~ ( ~:~ ~~~ ~~,I • :rrt . ~ .­
i1 

=;; ~-~~ ~~II li~ ~-~ ~ I~
0 
I I. All

::/~ ~ ~ . -~ d I~ n rH ~U~I-1'~; ;! ; ~: ! in ~II 
. -==-==-~ ~ ~~ ~~ *~ __ l~~ I :J • ~ il I I ~ ll~ 
:"l ~ ~t}o ~ lS 1' ~ v (:,..~ . -'-~· i I t1 ) ~ ;.;. =-r-"" l~ ·~ I~. \ 
.~--~~:~ ~ ...lc-~-_£· ,~ 0~~ 
:.---1?1 ~ ,..4 .. ~--:-M ~~ _ .. -~ -.., 
-,. :~ .tt I • ~r.. • -... -::"':'-!-4:,'~'..;.6.,..,.. ~ .......,!l IJ -r -v -_ 
--. --­
..... --..... -..... -...................... -....... -.... . 
Monday, September 14, 1987 The Observer page 5 
UN chief visits Iraq 
Security Beat · 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -U.N. secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar took his peace mission to Iraq after Iran's president told him Sunday that Iran will keep fighting until a Nuremberg-style court punishes Iraq as the aggressor. 
Earlier in the day, Iraq threatened what one official called a "more severe war" un­less Iran accepts the U.N. Se­curity Council's July 20 resolu­tion demanding a cease-fire in the 7-year-old war. 
Iran says the war began when Iraq invaded in Septem­ber 1980. Iraq maintains the conflict broke out two weeks earlier when Iran shelled border towns. 
Asked whether the U.N. leader failed to get Iran to ac­cept the cease-fire resolution, his spokesman, Francois Giuliani, refused comment. 
"The secretary-general will make no comment whatsoever until he has briefed the Secur­ity Council" upon his return Thursday, Giuliani said at U.N. headquarters in New York. 
A convoy of Kuwaiti tankers and U.S. warships protecting them from Iranian attack meanwhile was reported near Bahrain, halfway through its voyage south through the Per­sian Gulf. 
Iraq's Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz welcomed Perez de Cuellar when he arrived in Baghdad after two days of talks in Iran. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, moni­tored in Nicosia, Cyprus, quoted the U.N. chief as saying the talks were "valuable." 
Perez de Cuellar talked with President Ali Khamenei, Prime Minister Hussein Musavi, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati and the power­ful Parliament speaker, Has­hemi Rafsanjani. 
Tehran Radio quoted Khamenei as telling him Iran has been "dissatisfied with decisions made by the Security Council" but that "considering your good intentions, we hope that this trip will be fruitful." 
The radio, monitored in Nicosia, did not say whether Khamenei conveyed Tehran's final word on the U.N. cease­fire resolution. So far, Iran has neither accepted nor rejected the resolution. 
The broadcast quoted Khamenei as saying "no peace­seeking group has objected to the Nuremberg trials" of top Nazi leaders after Germany's defeat in World War II, so punishing Iraq as instigator of the Iran-Iraq war "is accep­table to the world." 
The official Iraqi News Agency, also monitored in Nicosia, said Iraq's ruling Revolutionary Command Council met overnight under President Sad dam Hussein and declared Iraq will abide by the resolution "provided Iran declares a clear-cut stand in support of the call." 
Iran occupied part of Iraq's southern Faw peninsula in February 1986 and holds pock­ets of territory around Basra and other sectors along the 730­mile front. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY General Meeting TONIGHT 7:00PM in the Library Auditorium  
(BRING IN THIS AD) BE A HERO AND MAKE SOME MONEY! DONATE PLASMA YOU CAN HELP SAVE LIVES AND YOU'LL RECEIVE $12.00 AS A NEW COME TO AMERICAN PLASMA HOURS: TUE. FRI. 8-5:30 8-4:30 WED. SAT. 10-6:30 9-4:30 LINCOLNWAY -~ SOUTH  

Friday, September 11 
A Brownson Hall resident reported the theft of $80.00 cash from his locked room. The money was taken from his desk drawer. 
Saturday, September 12 
A Morrissey hall resident reported that 2 bicycles had just been stolen from the bike racks in front of Mor· rissey by 2 male subjects last seen riding eastbound on the South Quad toward O'Shaughnessey Hall and being chased by a Morrissey resident on foot. With the help of this student caller and the quickness with which the call was made, one of the sus{lt!cts was apprehended by ND Se­cur1ty i>ersonnel at the intersection of St. Louis and Peashway Streets. One bike was also recovered. The suspect was taken into custody and later arrested by ND Police. 
An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his new blue Mounteener bike. The bike is a 10 speed valued at $210. On this same date, a Dillon resident reported the theft of his bike which had been chained to the bike rack when the chain was cut. This bike is valued at $175 and is des­cribed as a black Schwinn Roadmaster 10 speed. 
A theft was reported by 3 residents of Carroll Hall. Pilferred parapher­nalia included 2 wrist watches and 2 wallets with money and personal items. Total loss is estimated to be $650. At the time of the theft, the room was unoccupied and unlocked. 
Several students were ap­prehended and identified following a food fight in the South Dining Hall after the NO-Michigan game. The students names and the manner of their conduct have been referred to the Office of Student Affairs for fur­ther action. One student was injured in the incident. No injuries were re­ported from the North Dining Hall food fight. 
Sunday, September 13 
The theft of $15 cash was reported by a Flanner Hall resident. At the time of the theft, the room was un­occupied and unlocked. 
USSR rep cautious about talks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze said Sunday a decision on another super­power summit meeting depends on the outcome of his talks this week with President Reagan and Secretary of State George Shultz. 
"We have come here in order to roll up our sleeves and work," Shevardnadze said on his arrival from Moscow. 
The white-haired Soviet offi­cial brought with him a letter for Reagan from Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and "a degree of optimism." 
In a brief airport news con­ference, Shevardnadze added, "I would say cautious op­timism, maybe." 
He did not disclose the con­tents of Gorbachev's letter to Reagan, but said in Russian through an interpreter, ''As for the summit, everything will depend on the results of our work here." 
Reagan and Gorbachev 
WANTED USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
fARLY AM OR EVEN/NOS 
agreed at their first meeting in 
Geneva in November 1985 to 
hold successive summits the 
next two years in Washington 
arid in Moscow. 
Instead, they met last Octo­
ber in Reykjavik, Iceland, and 
Gorbachev has not responded 
to the president's invitation to 
visit the United States this 
year. 

"Generally, without reason, 
I do not go anywhere, particu­
larly America," Gorbachev 
said last April during a visit by 
Shultz to Moscow. 
Reagan administration offi­cials have not pressed the So­viet leader for a response, but anticipated it might come during the talks to be held with Shevardnadze Tuesday through Thursday. 
The Soviet foreign minister said the two sides had made "very substantial progress" on a treaty to ban intermediate­range nuclear missiles. But he tempered the positive remark by saying "a great deal of work 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
also remains."  
Shevardnadze  said  differ­ 
ences  remained  over  war­ 
heads. On top of that, he said,  
procedures  for  verifying  
destruction of the U.S. and So­ 
viet weapons  as  well  as  the  
pace still must be resolved.  
"The warheads are a serious  
question," he said.  
However, Shevardnadze also  
declared, "We have come in a  
businesslike spirit,  and  in  a  
working  spirit,  and  with  a  
degree of optimism."  
Similarly, Shultz said in  a  
CBS television interview that  
despite  a  public  squabble,  
there  was  really little differ­ 
ence between the two sides on  
how to implement the nearly  
completed U.S.-Soviet treaty to  
eliminate  intermediate-range  
ballistic  missiles  as  well  as  
cruise missiles in Europe and  
the Soviet Union.  
But officials  on  both sides  
seemed to go out of their way  
to  lower expectations of any  
breakthrough in the three days of talks Shevardnadze will hold here.  j j I  

~



Slaying 
continued from page 1 
but the woman ran outside and 
fled in a car being driven by a white male, he said. 
0~ 
The store owner obtained the car's license number, and state police determined that it was 
the stolen Beauchamp vehicle, Powers said. 

Subsequent investigation by state and Ferndale police and Mecosta County sheriff's detectives led them to a cabin southeast of Mecosta, vvhere they arrested the two suspects without incident at noon Sun­day, Powers said. The stolen car was found there as well, he said. 
The female suspect faced ar­raignment today in 77th Dis­trict Court in Big Rapids on bad-check charges, Powers said. The male suspect prob­ably would be arraigned today in 43rd District Court in Ferndale on two counts of open murder and robbery charges related to the break-in and car theft, he said. 
E. William Beauchamp, 45, the victims' son, was an exec­
Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm 
Washington Hall utive assistant to the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, former
Tickets on sale_ at the Washington 
university president, before being named executive vice
Hall box office 91.4 -91.6 12-6 pm 
president earlier this year. 
·0~

$4.00 Nn8MC student "; ~~~ 
$8.00 public ~e~ ~ ~ 
For information, ~~o ~~~e ~0'b-'( 
call 239-7757 ~~" ~ 




Viewpoint
page 6 Monday, September 14, 1987 
Vietnam War movies overlook ideology 
Last spring a movie appeared that, tives in mind. His conclusion is ines­bombs, would finish the job. And there­ruin our will to resist Communism. Our for many, seemed to heal a long­capable: roughly 50,000 men died in fore he never explained to the Ameri­film industry must not give the impres­standing wound in the American vain. can people exactly what the U.S. pres­sion that Communism was not an issue psyche. "Platoon", written and di­Baloney. Despite all the plaudits the ence in Vietnam meant. Nor did he in Vietnam--it was. And the failures of rected by Oliver Stone, displayed to film won, it does the American people explain how U.S. national security -­this ideology are oh, so evident today. many theater-goers the Vietnam war a disservice. For Stone leaves out a cru­albeit indirectly--was affected by the "Platoon" thus joins "The Deer "as it really was", or so the audiences cial dimension---the moral one. Al­conflict. Does anyone wonder why Fidel Hunter" and "Apocalypse Now" as believed. But was this film really the though we often couldn't see the North Castro felt so confident in sending films portraying one piece of the Viet­definitive story of Americans in Viet­Vietnamese Army or the Viet Cong, 30,000 Cuban troops to Angola in 1975? nam puzzle. But the definitive film on nam? Or is there a crucial dimension they existed. Ask, a survivor from the A generation's guilt over the outcome this conflict has yet to be written. · of the war that is missing? provincial capital of Hue. In the 1968 of a past conflict, or its angst from the 
Tet offensive, the Viet Cong controlled excesses that war often creates, must Kevin Smant is pursuing his doctorate
Kevin Smant 
Hue for over ten days. They executed not create a historical blind spot, or degree in history. over 1000 people --"enemies of the people", they said. Ask one of the boat 
guest column 
people who have since left a country There is no question that Stone's impoverished due to the imposition of 
P.O. Box Q
directing leaves us with an intense and a communist economy. Ask a man vivid message: war is hell. The new named Doan Van Toai, who in 1967-68 recruit, Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen), led student demonstrations against the 7000 people who were extraordinarily on his first patrol is leeched by insects, South Vietnamese government in Dome alleviates similar and forced them to live under nuzzled by a not-so-friendly snake, and Saigon. He welcomed the 1975 Commu­rules designed to retard their develop­tripped by exotic shrubbery roots. More nist victory as a "liberation". But freshman's doubts ment into mature adults capable of importantly, he quickly learns the within a month he was arrested and functioning in the world outside the frustrations of being unable to spent five years in prison and "re­Dear Editor: leprechaun walls. decisively engage a largely unseen education" camps. His crime? He had Freshman Year. Just last month I As the week progressed I began enemy. The film shows how this never officially joined the Viet Cong in began what are supposed to be the best classes; still not feeling the flame of frustration could turn to rage, and then his. student protest days. Was it still so 4 years of my life. I spent 3 days saying enlightenment burning within, I atten­violence. Sergeant Barnes (Tom wrong, then, ~o fight against such a sys­goodbye to friends, bosses and rela­ded extracurricular meetings. I was on Berenger), half-crazed by the killing of tem? And with Laos and Cambodia fal­tives, 3 hours packing, and rolled into my way back to my dorm after one of a fellow soldier, leads some of his men ling to the Communist insurgents as the car. Driving through the midwest I those meetings when I began to under­in a rampage through a farming vil­well, was the "domino theory" really asked myself why Indiana, walking stand what brought me here. I walked lage; many innocent civilians are so silly? through my dorm I asked myself why across the campus, not much more im­slaughtered. In addition to such Notre Dame, little did I know the doubts pressed by these trees and ivy-covered atrocities, Stone shows festering ten­Of course not. Mistakes were made, had only begun. My parents left the buildings than I had been on 5 to 15 sions between whites and blacks, and as everyone knows. President Johnson next day and I thought the fun was other university campuses, and I the pervasiveness of drugs in the ranks. never wanted to make the commitment about to begin. thought about transfering to one of In short, Stone suggests, this war was needed to ensure South Vietnamese in­It began Saturday when I walked into them. "This place doesn't have any fought against an invisible, unseen dependence. He continued to hope that my room to change; my roommate's more to offer me than the rest" I enemy with unclear strategic objec-only a few more troops, or a few more girlfriend walked in and I introduced decided. "Why not transfer?" 
myself while pulling my pants on. Some Then I looked up and through the of my fears were lessened when I dis­trees I saw the dome. I'd seen domes covered he didn't dress like Potsie Web­before, but this really was special. I ber or play "Lawrence Welk's polka thought back on the week before, and favorites" on his stereo. the people I'd met. There was the senior 
After meeting my roommate I tried who told me about the banks on campus to get to know the University. (Here's while waiting in line, the sophomores where the fun starts.) I was amazed to who invited me into their 'party room,' discover that in all the information the and all the people who gave me direc­Admissions office sent me they forgot tions when I couldn't tell "the Rock" to mention parietals or the Alcohol from a stone and LaFortune was what Policy. I'm confident that this was came in a Chinese cookie. merely an oversight, as they would I tried to make light of a situation never try to conceal anything this im­which can be extremely difficult at portant from someone applying to the times, especially for those of us who school. haven't known we were going to come 
I began to reconsider my decision. here for the past 18 years. What can I Instead of being free and easy among say but try, and look at that dome once a wide mix of people brought together in a while, it may help. to learn and grow I felt like a prisoner in a sick laboratory experiment. It all David Lawlor became clear: they brought together Keenan Hall 

Doonesbury 
t4HYAM IS/6NING? 
&A5Y... 
~ 

7H& GlJYa.M$A0l095AS AN 
/GNOMNT fJIG(JT. He MAKC5 /Ns.t:We APPOINT/f1E.N75. H&'5 UJSING 7HB 5TAT'e MIU.IONS IN 8l/51NI35S... "'-. 
Garry Trudeau 
Campus Quote 
"Every time we won a game last year, someone would say we turned the corner. With our schedule, every time you think you've turned the corner, there's another corner waiting for you." 
Lou Holtz 

Ihe Observer  General Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski  Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager.......... David Culligan  
News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski  Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau  
News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley  Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University  Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy  Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin 
of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies  Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan  Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton  
of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively  Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton  Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele  
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerime/e  Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors Column  Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression o: varying  
opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged.  Founded November3,1988  



Business
Monday, September 14, 1987 page 7 
Takeovers spreading 
CorporateraiderT.Boone $23 In July it sold for $69. 
Pickens and his Ivanhoe Many investors have sold 
Partners announced that Newmont as indicated by 
they will offer $95 a share the large sales volume last 
for 28 million shares of New-week. Pickens may not 
mont Mining. succeed in his takeover bid, 
If Newmont Mining share-but stockholders will 
holders accept the offer, emerge as winners. 
Pickens' group will be able T. Boone Pickens is known 
to increase their current for acquiring companies 

Wholihan and 
Murray 


Business Briefs ,'-f· 
holding of 9.95 percent to 51 percent. In addition, the Ivanhoe group may change Newmont's board of direc­tors. 
Each of the parties have employed its strategy. Many analysts expect Newmont's leaders to look to Con­solidated Gold Fields for help in fending off the Ivanhoe bid. CGF owns 26.2 percent of Newmont and may be willing to increase its stake. This could lead to a bidding war and increase Newmont's stock price from Friday's close of $93.875. 
Newmont directors will decide this week whether to recommend that their stock­holders accept or decline this offer which expires Oct. 5. 
Newmont shareholders have enjoyed tremendous capital appreciation. Two years ago the stock sold for that he believes are on the move. Newmont is respected in the gold mining industry. As for the invest­ment side, large investors like the stock because more than 300 institutions hold shares in Newmont. 
Merger-mania is sweep­ing the South Bend area as well. Two of the area's larger companies joined the growing number of buyouts. St. Joseph Bank, which just opened a branch in LaFor­tune, was recently acquired by a holding company 
Nyloncraft, a $ 45 million (sales) plastics concern based in Mishawaka, is negotiating an offer with a Naperville, Ill., company, Variland Associates. Variland, a $750 million dol­lar company that manufac­tures electronic industrial devices, could use a plastics subsidiary as a supplier. 
Corporate Contributions to Charity 


Washington busy with trade, Toshiba and banks 
By STEVE CLAEYS Business Editor 
While most of the country was enjoying this past sum­mer, politicians in Washington worked overtime on trade and business legislation. 
This legislation promises to greatly affect what Notre Dame students buy and how they do their banking. 
The Iran-Contra hearings was not the only show followed by Washingtonians. In the nearby Senate chambers, debate over a major trade bill captivated Congressmen, lob­byists, businessmen, and the administration for a month. 
Titled the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1987, this legislation originally addressed only America's in­ternational trade deficit. 
After pork-barrel politics took over, however, the bill be­came ladden with special inter­est amendments. 
The core of the bill is a provi­sion to eliminate unfair trade practices. If a country is found to consistently discriminate against U.S. products, then the president will be required to correct the situation. The use of duties, quotas and tariffs to prevent the goods from a dis­criminatory country from en­tering the United States are a few of the president's possible responses. These actions should force a country to open its borders to American goods. 
Japan and South Korea are two of the countries at which this provision is aimed. Consu­mers can expect prices for products from these targeted nations to rise if the Trade Act becomes law. 
One amendment to the bill which st\'dents should be inter­ested in is a provision intro­duced by Sen. Clairborne Pell, D-R.I. This amendment eliminates the small state min­imum on chapter 1 programs of the Guaranteed Student Loan program. 
Despite strong opposition from the Reagan administra­tion, the trade bill was passed. Now it is up to a committee of senators and representatives to combine the Senate bill with the House trade bill. The result­ing legislation will be sent to President Reagan for ap­proval. 
The administration has already marked numerous por­tions of the two trade bills as "veto bait." . Reagan has threatened to automatically veto the trade bill if any of these provisions are included in it. 
+ Anotber trade issue which held Washington's attention was the case of Toshiba of Japan and Kongsberg Vaapen­fabrikk of Norway. 
It was discovered this sum­mer that these companies sold the Soviets sensitive technolo­gy. Supposedly this technology has cut the American lead in submarine technology by half. 
Rep. Duncan Hunter, R­Calif., estimates that it will cost taxpayers $30 billion to compensate for the Soviet's new underwater capabilities. 
Congress immediately demanded that action be taken against Toshiba and Kongsberg. Included in the sen­ate trade bill is a five-year ban on all Toshiba and Kongsberg imports to the United States. The only exceptions are spare parts, contracts already signed and "components vital to the American economy." 
The administration main­tains that the American gov­ernment has no right to punish Toshiba and Kongsberg. Ad­ministration officials say that these companies did not brake any U.S. laws, but that they did violate the laws of their respec­tive countries. 
Congress, however, asserts that the laws of Norway and Japan are not stringent enough and that additional punishment is needed. 
Business' response to the Hill's proposed action has hardly been supportive. James Johnson of Apple Computers, testifying before the House Ways and Means subcommit­tee on Trade, said it would take his company two years to find another supplier to replace Toshiba. 
Bruce Reale, president of Ad­vanced Telecom, told the sub­committee that banning all Toshiba imports is unfair. A subsidiary of Toshiba, not the entire corporation, Reale said, was responsible for the sale to the Soviets. 
Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla., however, advised businesses to find new suppliers to replace Toshiba and Kongsberg. Gib­bons said that, based on his in­terpretation of Congress' mood, action will be taken against Toshiba and Kongsberg. 
The impact on consumers from a ban on Toshiba and Kongsberg could be severe. 
Beside losing the ability to buy Toshiba's and Kongberg's products, there will possibly be a cut back in consumer sup­port. In addition, Toshiba is the sole major producer of some of the components needed in cel­lular phones. A ban could greatly effect their price and availability. 
After concerns about Tos­hiba, the trade bill and Ollie North died down, Washington turned its gaze to the first banking reform bill in five years. 
Signed into law by Reagan on Aug. 10, this legislation con­tains some provisions which should be very appealing to Notre Dame students. 
One portion of special inter­est to students is a limit on how long banks can hold out-of -state checks. 
/.

Presently some banks have been known to hold checks for up to 14 working days. The ex­cuse given is that banks need time to clear checks. An in­creased use of computers, however, has changed this, and a bank usually has the funds within three days. During the rest of the hold time, you can still not access your money, and and some banks also won't pay you interest during that time. 
Under the new bill banks can hold out-of-state checks for only six working days as of Sep­tember 1988 and for four working days as of 1990. 
The full implications of this summer's legislation for con­sumers and businesses have yet to be realized. Washington has proved without a doubt that the business world is in­fluenced by Capitol Hill as well as Wall Street. 

Eye Exams
ProfessionalVISion 
Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 
20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400
277-1161 

Martins Shopping Center
South of U.S. 23 
TUTORS NEEDED Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Students needed to serve as tutors for illiterate adults at 
week, from 1:15 3:15 
the Center for Basic Learning  Skills  in  
South Bend. Tutors work  one  day  per  
- 

p.m. Transportation provided, no experience necessary. Call Christopher at x1952 evenings for information Orientation 
meeting tonight (Monday, 14th) in 
CSC Coffeehouse at 6:30p.m. 





Mark Green breaks a tackle and romps for some of his 48 yards on the day. The Irish 
The Notre Dame leprechaun is to their lead en route to their flying high after the Irish add 26-7 upset victory. 
Monday, September 14, 1987 

Ill 
. i ( 


I I 

Alonzo Jefferson sprints past a Michigan defender and turns upfield for a big gain on Satur­day. It was sweet revenge for 

--~--------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 14, 1987
serYer~=­

II 



I 

Photography by Greg Kohs and Jim Carroll 









Accent
oage 10 Monday, September 14, 1987 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
All My Children: Jackson Montgomery arrived to a cool reception from his brother Travis. A furious Palmer overheard Ross and Natalie argue about her confessing their affair to Ellen. Jeremy realized Dr. lazarre has been brainwash­ing Noelle and vowed to Jearn why. Snooping, Cecily found a note saying that Elizabeth is Julie's mother, then told Julie. 
Coming: Ellen encourages Mark. Another World: As Peter continued his set-up, Vicki sensed that something was going on between John and Donna but didn't tell Mi­chael. John got a part-time 
bartending at Tops. Clara suffered a small stroke. Vicki and Jamie became friends. Amanda convinced Sam to give her a job in the layout depart­ment. Chad told Dawn that their mother had died. Coming: More tension for the Hudson's. As the World Turns: After an overnight stint in jail, Hol­den made peace with Lance and was forgiven by Lily. Casey gave Lyla a meaning­ful parting gift. Frannie was surprised that Seth's novel is about Sabrina. Paul saw James embrace Corinne. Emma learned that the bank planned to foreclose on her farm. Duncan found Shan­non face-down In his moat, the latest target of James' wrath. Coming: Lyla has second thoughts. The Bold and the Beautiful: Caroline worked with a pollee artist to draw a pic­ture of the rapist. Bill, who unknowingly bumped into Ron at a restaurant. hired a 
P.l. to flnd the rapist. Caroline made peace with her father. Katie forgave Rocco, but stayed mad at Donna. Assuming that Caroline favored Thorne, Ridge decided to carry on without her. Beth was stunned when Eric visited her, but wouldn't allow her­self to encourage him. Coming: Eric can't hide his feelings. Days of Our Lives: Roman and Diana battled over her friendship with Victor. Diana discovered that her father planted bugs in her new condo. When Justin was threatened by a gunman, Victor assigned him a bodyguard. Jennifer asked Frankie to spend the night In her dorm room. Kim came home from the hospi­tal. Kayla agonized over Jack's proposal. Kiriakis decided to test Patch's loyalty by ordering him to kill Shane. Coming: Kayla_makes a decision. Ouldlng Light: Josh found a worried Reva at the hospital with Marsh and comforted her. They agreed to discuss 
their problems at Cross Creek. Roxy accepted Johnny's marriage proposal shortly after he was diagnosed with cancer. Dinah learned that Cam slept with lacey. Kim refused pot from Alan­Michael and saved him from a bust. Rusty was bothered that Will was getting to know Mindy. Coming: Phillip seeks revenge. Loving: Ava prompted much gossip as she planned a lavish wedding. April 
knocked out Alan, but was unable to escape from the barred room. At an M meeting, Marty admitted she was an alcoholic. A seduc­tive Shana promised a new closeness between herself and Jim. Jack, trying to break away from Lily, of­fered to get her a job else­where. Coming: Ned searches for April. One Life to Live: Cord moved Into Llanfair to keep an eye on Tina. Tom was upset over Mari-Lynn and Wade's relationship. After accepting Lee as her mot­her, Mari-Lynn learned of Lee's hooker past. Tina was charged with first-degree murder. Jamie offered to trade information about Tina and Maria for a reduced sentence. Rafe informed John that Sandra changed her story. Coming: John and Cassie grow closer. Ryan's Hope: Blaming Ryan for the miscarriage, Rick told her they were too young to marry and he was leaving. Dee was enraged to find out that Lizzie's been with Ben. John told Frank and Jill that he wants Owen back. but was unable to negotiate Owen's custody with Lizzie. Griffin was warned to stop his experiment. . Coming: A custody fight ensues. Santa Barbara: Eden saved Cruz's life after Paul knocked him out. Cruz and Eden made passionate love. Keith earned respect from Gina by capturing Paul and recover­
ing the babies. Eleanor made several attempts to shoot Cain. Kelly helped Cain remember that his real name Is Alan Garver and that he had been menaced by the mystery woman in a 
V.A. hospital. Gina and Keith met a bag lady wearing a locket of Jeffrey and Mason. Coming: Eleanor makes another plan. The Young and the Restless: Cricket was proud that Phil­lip attended an M meeting and refused liquor at Dan­ny's party. Victor discovered Nikki's secret apartment and installed a two-way mirror from the room next door. Steven warned Victor not to trifle with Ashley's feelings. Faren had flashes of her car exploding. John warned Jack to support the men's line-­or else. Coming: Kay and Jill have dates. 

Make it a habit: 
Adopt -A-Nun 
MARIA DOTI accent writer 

no you ever feel down and Uneed to talk to someone? Do you want to feel a sense of family away from home? 
If you're one of those people who likes to share yourself with others, one who enjoys learn­ing about the experiences of a very special group of people, then the Adopt-A-Nun program at Saint Mary's is just what you have been looking for. 
Until this year, the Adopt-A­Nun program had been geared solely toward Saint Mary's stu­dents. "This is the first year we have had representatives at Notre Dame's activities night," said club vice president Cindy Bosik. a Saint Mary's senior, "It's great to see everyone so interested in the program." 
The purpose of the program is to recruit students to adopt one of the many nuns living at Saint Mary's convent and infir­mary on campus. The nuns are retired Sisters of the Holy Cross who thoroughly enjoy having visitors--someone with whom they can talk or play cards, someone who is willing to write letters for them if they are unable to themselves-­someone who just wants to be their friend. 
"''ve had the same nun for four years now," said Saint Mary's student Lisa Waldvogel, president of the Adopt-A-Nun program, "It has really developed into a lasting friendship." • 
The nuns really depend on the volunteers who participate in the program, and the stu­dents gain a good deal of satisfaction from their experi­ences. 
"''ve never really thought about why I do it," Bosik says. "I really get a good feeling when I see them smile or when they have a surprised look on their faces even when they're expecting a visit." 
Betsy Seggersen, a Saint Mary's sophomore and Adopt­A-Nun volunteer, says she believes the program is very worthwhile. "I love the pro­gram. We spend all year with people our own age," Segger­sen says. "It's good to get a different perspective for a change." 
The nuns may enjoy reminiscing now and then, but many of them are just as aware of today's happenings as they were of yesterday's. 
"My nun knows all about sports. She reads the paper all the time, and every once in awhile she'll quiz me," 
Calvin and Hobbes 

Nuns make a friend at an Adopt-A-Nun meeting. The Observel:lll'larla DoU 
Sister Noel Metcalfe has been coordinating the program for the last ten of the program's I 2 years in existence, and she sees it as more than just a temporary involvement. 
"The program has been the start of many beautiful friendships--friendships that continue long after the girls are out of school," Sister Noel says. 
"The girls do everything! They not only make weekly visits, but they bring gifts, play bingo and take the sisters for walks. They are very unselfish," she adds. 
The sisters love to share their experiences with the vol­unteers. Many of them have lived very fruitful lives. They are living proof of historical happenings and of the strong beliefs of yesteryear. 
"I think it's good for the girls to know how us sisters live," said Sister Theodorus Cosgrove, "Most people think we come here to the convent and our lives are over." 
Adopt-A-Nun is a way to 

bridge the gap between the 
students and the convent. It's a 
chance to encompass the 
whole campus--the whole Saint 
Mary's community. 
"Any other time the sisters are sectioned off from the rest of the campus," said Nancy Fazio, a Saint Mary's senior and volunteer. "This way they're integrated, and it's good to see more of that." 
"Overall, there aren't many sisters involved on this campus as professors or administrators anymore," said Bosik. "It's an excellent way to uphold the tradition." 
"''ve gained a lot of respect 
for the holy orders through the 
program," said Francesca 
Trigiani, a senior volunteer. 
"They need to be noticed. They 
share with us a lot about the 
way things used to be-­
information we wouldn't nor­
mally come in contact with. It's 
interesting to hear what they 
have to say." 
Giving is a very important 

aspect of the Adopt-A-Nun com­munity. Both the sisters and 
the students give of them­selves, and both parties have experienced the giving of gifts as a means of sharing another 
part of their personality, their character, their being. 
"My nan is always giving me something," said Debbie Keller, a senior volunteer. "She's given me statues, holy cards, a rosary--even a candy bar she had saved from lunch." 
Sister Villanova Schuck re­members when her volunteer brought her a chain of seas· hells from Georgia. "I gave it to my grandniece who recently got married," she said. "It was so beautiful I didn't want to keep it myself." 
The nuns prove to be an im­portant part of the volunteers' lives, a commitment they love to keep. According to Segger­son, they should be. 
"The volunteers that sign-up to do this should definitely be committed," she said. "The sisters really look forward to their visits every week." 
Martha Boesen, a Saint Mary's senior, says she feels the best part about being a volunteer is being able to help women who have devoted their lives to teaching and mission­ary work. 
"We enjoy giving them back some of what they have given us," Martha said. "I have the same nun my sister had when she went to-school here. I've gotten to know some things about my sister that I never knew before." 
The Adopt-A-Nun program has been a source of inspira­tion to all of its participants, as well as those listening to the stories told of memorable ex­periences. It's an open invita­tit:m to share feelings, disap­pointments, and exciting news with someone who's willing to listen. And it's okay to have doubts once in awhile when you're with someone who sees great potential and capabilities in you. The Adopt-A-Nun pro­gram is just what the doctor ordered--for all of us. 

~------~~------­

l~t.OOL'i ~ 
WJM '-~0 \W) Ml£. ~ l'~t-US IS ~ECJ>llSt: l 
wr.s BtJIIN m 
niEM~ 

Monday, September 14, 1987 The Observer page 11 

Sports Briefs 
In AL action yesterday, New York beat Toronto, 8-5; Detroit defeated Milwaukee, 5-1; Min­nesota outscored Cleveland, 7-3; Chicago blanked Seattle, 2-0; KC nipped Oakland, 6-5; and Texas whipped the Angels, 8-2. Associated Press 
In NL action yesterday, New York defeated St. Louis, 4-2; San Diego ripped Houston, 10-2; Pit­tsburgh beat Philly, 6-1; LA out­scored Atlanta, 6-2; San Francisco defeated the Reds, 6-1; and Chicago beat Montreal, 5-2. -Associated Press 
TheBoxingClubwillcontinue training for the novice program today and throughout the week at 4 p.m. in the Boxing Room of the ACC. All new and old members are welcome. No experience neces­sary. Any questions call Kevin at 283-1419. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will be offering sailing lessons for all ex­perience levels this fall at 3:30p.m. Mondays, 4 p.m. Tuesdays and 4 
p.m. Thursdays. Dues must be paid at or before your first lesson. -The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will be giving lessons to all members or potential members at St. Joe's Beach from Monday, September 14, to Friday, September 18. Any questions, call Carter at 1723. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club now has applications for the Turning Leaves Century bicycle tour on Sunday October 4. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 and leave your name and address for an applica­tion. There are also daily rides from the Bus Stop at 4 p.m. -The Observer 
n.a...w.Notre o.me office,~ on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­-.t Center, eccepta c:laatfled ~IIJ from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday thruugll Friday. n.a. .. s.1nt IMry's office, located on the third floor of HllgprCollge Center, .ccepta claaHieds from 12:30 p.m.. untll3 p.m., Monday thruugll Friday. Deedllne for next-dlly clualfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must 
Classifieds be pnlpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five ce-.ctera '*day. 
NOTICES 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 0 237-1949: H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY: 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
MY CHICK is in Pittsburgh and needs a ride too her alma mater (NO) for the ND-Mich ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out for the game who could give her a nde from the Pit­tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239-5303 any time of the day or night. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weekl10:00 a.m.-5:30. 
With, receive an extra 10% off on pur· chases of used paperbacks (in stock) at Pandora's Bookstore. located at 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
Needed: childcare Wed afternoons 1­
5:30 1 child age 2 near ND$2.00 hr. Call 233-2908 
Need one Mtch St student ticket. Coli Kevin et 239-5303 
LOST/FOUND I 
Lost: Pair of Nike Air Max size 8 v.!. From my locker at Rock. Reward. No ques. asked. Call Brad 232-6428 after 8pm. 
found: one watch with broken band. lem1nine. found in stephan fields about one week ago. call 1384 otherwise my sister gets it. 
Will the person who called on Thurs. and asked if I lost my keys PLEASE call back. Kathy £2240 Am. 417 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
Room for rent. Call Mrs. Cooper 272­
3004. 
FOR RENT FURNISHED, BEAUTIFUL 3 BEDROOM APT 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 6298 
TURTLE CREEK: now renting 2 bdrm. apartment. very close to campus. 271­0513 
MOVE IN NOW! FREE RENT UNTIL 1D-25-87. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­ments available, each with kitchen, full bathroom and large living room. Beds and dressers furnished. Rent includes all utilities. Call 232-9239 for appointment. 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-368-W88-0955 
WANTED 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME. PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST. f705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON! 
NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA TICK­ETS WILL PAY$$$! CALL MIKE X4340 
HIRING FULL AND PART TIME PHONE INTERVIEWERS FOR MARKET RE­SEARCH FIRM, SHOULD ENJOY TALKING WITH PEOPLE, TYPE 25 W­P-M. AND AVAILABLE FOR WEEKEND SHIFTS FOR APPT., CALL 282-2754. 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
I NEED BC TIX. ALOT. THEY'VE ALREADY BOUGHT PLANE TIX. Please call Jim at 271-0763. 
Responsible part-time help wanted. Flexible hours. 232-9918. 
Potter needs assistant. Prefer applicant with one day course and or a strong interest. 20 hours a week, flexible to lit your schedule. Start at $3.75. Call 277­1341 
Responsible individuals needed lor gen­eral theatre work. Apply M-T-W from 2-4 pm.. University Park Mall C1nema. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
FOR SALE 
IBM PCXT wrth 10 MEG hard disk, color monitor. Quadboard Including builtin clock and DOS. Call Kelly at 239-5936 or 233-5284. 
Three-p1ece massive wood bedroom set. Queen size bed, tall dresser. vanity w1th large mirror. 1930's. $250. Call Kelly at 239-5937 or 233-5284. 
Class1c '72 MGB Conv. $1900 Call 283­4024 
Couches. chairs, tables Very reasonable. Call Mrs. Cooper after 6:00. 272-6085 
TECNICS SA190,POLK AUDIO 4AS. CALL TOM, 234-8377. 
MACINTOSH 512K pnnter wf3ASIC,PASCAL. &SPREADSHEET. Call Tom,234-8377. 
Ktchn Quarters tbl W'2 chrs-$30. 3 pc bdrm set-$90. 291-9425 
HONDA 110 SCOOTER. EXCELLENT COND. GREAT FOR OFF CAMPUS TRANSPORTATION. $275 X2359. 
TICKETS 
Pm TIX WANTED CALL MAn 3349 
I NEED USC GA's have all others & $$ to trade, David x1712 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233­5732 
NEED 2 TIX TO ANY NO HOME GAMES. CALL 272-3491. GA'S 
$$$ NAVY TIX $$$ Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen 271-0585 
Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998. 
BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES! CALL 4579 
I NEED PENN ST GA'S! MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238. 
WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MAn AT 1404 
WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213­422-2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
NEED MICHIGAN TIX:CALL 271-9339 AFTER 8PM 
ALABAMA TICKETS!! I NEED 4 OF THEM!! CALL SEAN £2836 
BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING and they need four Michigan State tick­ets. Call Brutus NOW at 283-1483. Urgh! Go Irish' 
Rich Uncle will pay top dollar for four Navy GA's between the thirty yard lines. Call Clare 284-4104 or 312-750-4981. 
········································ 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR USC GAME -OCT 24! FAMILY COMING FOR B-DAY CALL MIKE X3138 
NEED A RIDE TO MICH GAME? CALL 4579 
NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872 
I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL JENNY 284-4154 
I NEED 1 OR 2 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL PAUL 283-3431 
need 1 stud. or GA tic for MSU call 2915 
CHIEF NEED 2 MSU GA'S CALL EXT. 1609. 
AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 STUD. TIX AND 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. GAME PLEASE CALL X1275. 
NEED 2 MICH STATE TIX STUD OR GA CALL 4340 
Please help me! I need 4 Boston College GA'SI! Do you hear? BC GA'S... WILL PAY DOLLAR SIGNS!!!! (call Frank 3104) 
NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX -HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE CALL JOHN AT 271-0464 
MY BROTHER WILL GIVE BEAUTIFUL EX-WIFE AND $$$ FOR 1 MICH. ST. GA. x2101 NICK 
HOMESICK FROSH NEEDS ALABAMA TICKETS TO SEE BROTHER-Dan 3253 
Will trade 2 MSU. BAMA or NAVY GAs for 2 BC GAs. 239-6546 before 5 
WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321­8269 9-5 EST. 
URGENTLY NEED FOUR TIX FORMIC­HIGANSTATEONSEPT.19ANDFOUR TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME ON NOV. 
14. ALUMNI GRANDFATHER WANTS THREE GRANDSONS TO SEE VIC­TORIES. CALL COLLECT JACK HOWE. 312-696-0810 EVENINGS ONLY. 
MSU Need two Michigan State GAs. Call Max at 283-1542 or 283-1543. Go forth and 
Go Irish! 

Dear Student: Expecting a lot ol homework for the MSU weekend? I'H pay you UP TO $100 lor your 1 student or GA ticket. PLEASE CALL GUS AT x3&41 or x3630 
Help Mel! Please!! Need 1 Mich St Stud or GA tix. Win PAY BIG $$$$ calf Rich X2050. 
HELPtlfll Parents, little brother & littfe sister coming across water au the way from Puerto Rico to see NAVY g~~me Need 4 TICkets. CaU Gil at 277-7261 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 
Need 2 Mlch Sl8te GAa Pey $$ or will trade 2 USC GAo. Cell Andy et 3074 or 30n. 
I need two MSU GA's. My life depends on rt. Save my life and You will be rewarded. Will beat your best offer. Call Harry at 1398. 
Hey Y'alll I need 'Bema GA'e. I can trade BC GA'1 or pay ceah. Call Marte at 4559 or 2698. 
I MUST GET 4 MICH ST GA TIX-$45 PLUS HELP AMY £257 4! 
Need MSU tix! 1 Stud and 2 GAs Call Kevin 271-94 79 $$$ 
NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR PARENTS CALL ANGIE 3829 
Need 2 or 4 MSU GA's!!! Call Lisa at 4588. 
Need Boston College GA's --will pay$$!! Call4302. 
Need 2-4 Penn State tix Need 4 Pitt tix HAVE 4 MSU tix and HAVE 4 Alabama tix. Want to trade? Call AMY at 4525 or 4530. 
.... ······························ 
WANTED 3 SOUTHERN CAL TICKETS REAL MONEY' CALL 233 6298 
SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL­ING TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 25761! 
CAN YOU HELP? Mom and Dad would love 2 G.A.s to USC game Will pey $$$! Call Kathy at 2602. 
NEED 5 MSU GA'S OR STUDENT TIX! Call JANE 283-4228, or KATHY 3607 
YO, CHECK ME OUT! GOT TIX FOR MOST HOME GAMES CALL KEN ANYTIME X1376 
USC ¢ PARENTS I NEED 4 GA'S DESPERATELY MONEY NO OBJECT CALL SEAN X3261 
NFL AGENT NEEDS 2 USC TIX $$$$$ SEAN X3261 
WANTED!! 4 STUD. TIX FOR MICH.ST. GAME, WILL PAY BIG $$$$..CALL ANDY AT 1968 
I NEED GA'S TO ALL HOME GAMES PLEASE CALL 1373 ASK FOR TODD OR LEAVE MESSAGE 
I HAVE 4 NAVY, 2 BC. OR 2 ALABAMA GAs TO TRADE FOR 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs, OR I'LL PAY CASH. DEBRA 3850 
Will trade 2 NAVY GA for 2 USC Call Mike 2204 
NEED 3 MSU TIX, STU OR GA. CALL JOE 2366 
TIX FOR SALE!! I Have 2 for each home game. Shawn x1474 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH ST. PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515 ······································ 
I NEED FIVE GA'S FOR MICH STATE. PLEASE CALL CORY 3561 
EVERYBODY PROMISES MONEY AND BEGS FOR TICKETS. I'm just going to tell rt like it is. I need as many GA's as possible to any home game for my whole family. I need 8 in all. but wiU take them even 1 by 1. Call Dane at 1185. 
I need 1 michigan state GA or mtix. call Peter at 3192 
PAY BIG BUCKS for 2-4 GA's for Navy game Call John 3179 
NAVY NAVY NAVY Cooh for GA'.stud Todd-3754 
HEY HOLMES II need aome 'BAMA nX GA'S PREFERRED. GOOD MONEY cell bill 1384 
I NEED 1 M.S.U. G.A. ANDOR 1 STU­DENT TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 283-1661 

Need GA's for all home games. Will pey big $. Call John 1837 
I need tixs for Navy and Penn St. GAs or student. Will pey XXXtra. Cal Marie, after 5: 272-2883, 
NEED Pin TICKETS!! Help alum see last game before Army stations him abroad. Call Nancy, 277-5906. 
AND SHE'S COMING TO THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME WITH DAD SO, I NEED TWO GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE lalao need BOSTON COLLEGE GA'o and Student tlx II you want c:eah lor your extraa, cell Steve 81 232-9818 
t NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET PLEASE CALL GINA-289-5608 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 

WANTED: MICH ST TfX. PLEASE CALL 284-4329 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR MICH STATE. CALL MEL, 2658, EVENINGS. 
CAPTAIN! The ship's gonna blow!-3169 
THE DENNY LEE SHOW 
ILLUSIONS 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 12:00 TEASER 1:00 MAGIC WORKSHOP 5:00 MAIN PERFORMANCE LAFORTUNE MAIN LOBBY 

Jim Buch --Happy, happy birthday!! Hope your 22nd is the best! Love, Lisa 
MEET THE FIRMS MEET THE FIRMS MEET THE FIRMS 
Tues., Sept. 15, 6:45-1 O:OOpm Monogram Room 
All Business Students Career and Internship Information MEET THE ARMS Tueldey, Sept. 15, Monogram Room 6:45-10:00pm 
Ever heard of NATURAL FAMILY PLAN­NING? This aHernative to contraception is SAFE HEAL THY EFFECTIVE and MORALLY ACCEPT ABLE. Learn more tonite at 7:30 Hayes-Healy Aud.Married and engaged couples call 277-8807 or 2 37-7401 to register for class 9-'16&!¥.30 on campus. 
FR. DUNNE WILL LEAD AN INFORMAL DISCUSSION FOR THEOLOGY MAJORS AND OTHER INTERESTED PERSONS ON WEDNESDAY, SEP­TEMBER 16 AT 8:00 PM INO 341 O'SHAUGNESSY. 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAME-ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (GLNQ.SMC) BOX 194: NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED 
Tastytoes ?I? I'm astoniehed II Who would have thought ...? 

--A toasthead 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX CALL AlYSSA 3736 
Q:What do you get ij you add popcomsl<i, pretzels, and a few wine coolers? Tell us. mark, wiU you? 
Assor<ted ex-roommates 
O.K•. .I lldmlt 11.•.1 don't love bend. 
YO, D.C., Will you pretty please print the words to the Irish Extra Theme Song soon? In­quiring minds want to know! 
Peaches? Butterscotch? Are you OK? 
Sendy C., Still have those sentimental attachments to plastic? (you knew that was coming) 
Later, Mikey. 
tRISH: 
Sorry, again. about dinner, but mart< your 
calendar for this Thursday. 
-Jim 
MY ONE AND ONLY DICK, SEEING YOU THIS WEEKEND MADE ME REAUZE HOW MUCH I NEED YOU. YOUR SMILE, YOUR LAUGHTER, AND THE TWINKLE IN YOUR EYE SENT SHIVERS DOWN MY SPINE. THANKS FOR THE BEAUTIFUL MEMORIES. HOPE WE WILL BE TOGETHER AGAIN IN THE NEAR FUTURE. HUGS AND KISSES, JANE 
Mad Macs-Mclntosh Users Group First meeting, 7 p.m., Thursday, Sept. 17 in Room 124 in Hayes-Healy. Hyper Card, MuHi-Finder, The Mac II and more! Mac experts. novices, and new members welcome. 
........................................,(...................... 
And so the week begins... The Countdown to Miss Colorado. Count down with us, to the Saturday aftennoon arrival date. $197.00? Jeezy Cow! Stay tuned for more 
Attention KEVIN STEWART GVDL ZPV ( ¢1 letter) The GLUE GODDESS 
All & GATORS: THANX FOR THE WILD B-DAY. FROM THE FLAMINGOS TO DINNER TO C34(At.MOST),IT WAS AW­SOMEIYER ALL MAAVELOUS! 
Mr. Popcomski: 
Would you like some Pretzels? 
MRS. CERIMELE: Thanks for dinner. Let's go out again some time. -JR etc. 
............................ Hey, everyone, it's "BE NICE TO BETH CORNWELL WEEK". 
Don't ask why. Just do it. 
Need Calculus tutor. I am sinking fast in Calc 117. You must understand more than I do or I'll sink even laster. I'm serious. call bill 1384. 
Dear Jim: I had fun last weekend. I hope 
we do not get kicked out of the University. 
I think we should get married. That's why 
I go here anyway. 
Love, Bambi 
Open Auditions 
tor Entertainment 
Nightclub at Saint Mary's. For more info, call 284-5447. 
Speak'Up. get ahead 
"What Toastmasters Can Do For You," lecture by Herb True Little Theatre, Saint Mary's TONIGHT 7pm 
································································ 
To the guy who lent me a nickel last Thuredey at LaFortune pizza stand. thanke tor being a bnght spot in a bleak 
day. 


NFL Roundup 
Bucs rip Atlanta in· opener 
Associated Press 
Steve DeBerg, who threw seven interceptions on the first week of the 1986 season, when Tampa Bay was 2-14 for the second straight year, looked like an All-Pro on opening day in the NFL sunday. DeBerg, who beat out No. 1 draft pick Vinny Testaverde, passed for 333 yards and a team-record five touchdowns as the Buc­caneers crushed the Atlanta Falcons 48-10 in Ray Perkins' debut as Tampa Bay coach. 
There were 12 other season openers Sunday. 
Redskins 34, Eagles 24 

Doug Williams, replacing the injured Jay Schroeder, threw two· touchdown passes to Art Monk leading Washington over Philadelphia. Williams passed for 272 yards in his second NFL appearance since 1982. 
Stealers 30, 49ers 17 

Rookie cornerback Delton Hall put Pittsburgh in the lead with a 50-yard fumble recovery return and Mark Malone over­came a nine-of-33 passing per­formance against turnover­prone San Francisco. The Steelers are coming off their first winless preseason in 22 years. 
Cards 24, Cowboys 13 

Neil Lomax hit Roy Green with two touchdown passes and Earl Ferrell ran 15 yards for St. Louis' third score in the final 1:58 against Dallas. Lomax's scoring strikes to Green covered 16 and 22 yards in a span of 65 seconds, the second touchdown with only 53 seconds remaining. 
Patriots 28, Dolphins 21 

New England scored twice within 50 seconds of the third quarter on Tony Collins' 7-yard run and Ronnie Lippett's 20­yard interception return against Miami. With the score tied 21-21, Dan Marino threw a short pass to Bruce Hardy, who deflected it toward Lippett. The cornerback raced un­touched to his first NFL touch­down with 7: 52 left in the third period. 
Oilers 20, Rams 16 

Warren Moon threw fourth­quarter touchdown passes of 3 yards to Jamie Williams and 59 yards to Ernest Givins, rally­ing Houston over the Los An­geles Rams. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


Jets 31 , Bills 28 

Ken O'Brien threw two touchdown passes and Johnny Hector ran for two scores as the New York Jets held off Buf­falo. A reshuffled Jets offensive line, after allowing three Buf­falo sacks in the first half, gave O'Brien ample time to pass, and the Jets quarterback responded with a 55-yard scoring bomb to Wesley Walker and a 4-yard scoring pass to Mickey Shuler. 
Saints 28, Browns 21 

Bobby Hebert threw two touchdown passes to Hoby Brenner, and Bruce Clark and Brett Maxie both sacked Bernie Kosar in the end zone in the fourth quarter as New Orleans whipped Cleveland. 
Bengals 23, Colts 21 

Boomer Esiason threw two touchdown passes in the first quarter and Jim Breech kicked a 20-yard field goal after a fight-marred fourth-quarter drive, helping Cincinnati b~at Indianapolis. kicked the go­ahead field goal. 
Chiefs 20, Chargers 13 

Rookie Paul Palmer returned a kickoff 95 yards late in the fourth quarter to give Kansas City its victory over San Diego. Palmer, the Chiefs' 
•;rst-round draft choice, broke 


FREE 32 oz. SOFT DRINK 

join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DEUVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
free behind a block by Paul Cof­fman and won a foot race down the right sideline. 
Vikings 34, Lions 19 
Wade Wilson, whose three in­terceptions put Minnesota in a 16-3 first-half hole, threw a 73­yard touchdown pass to An­thony Carter to spark a 21-point third-quarter rally against Detroit. Carter was an even bigger culprit than Wilson on two of the interceptions, as per­fect passes from Wilson went right through his hands and into the arms of Detroit defenders. 
Raiders 20, Packers 0 
Marcus Allen rushed for 136 yards and a touchdown on a career-high 33 carries and Vann McElroy returned an in­terception 35 yards for a touch­down as the Los Angeles Raiders blanked Green Bay. 
Broncos 40, Seahawks 17 
John Elway threw for 338 yards and four touchdowns, Rich Karlis kicked four field goals and Dennis Smith forced two third-quarter turnovers as 
Denver routed Seattle. Elway r-----------------------....­
completed 22 of 32 passes. Den­ver scored 33 straight points after trailing 17-7 in the second quarter. The Broncos didn't have to punt until 10:52 remained in the game. 

ATTENTION SENIORS: 
THE LOCATION FOR 
SENIOR PORTRAITS HAS 
BEEN CHANGED iO THE 
NEW ORLEANS ROOM-­1ST FLOOR LA FORTUNE. 
If you missed signups see 
the secretary at the information 
desk outside of the New Orleans 
Room between 12:00 & 8:00 pm. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
Guignon. "I just stroked it. Un­believable." 
Bruce Killough, the Indiana keeper, guessed right on the kick. Guignon sent a low shot to the left side to tie the score at three. 
Indiana had several excel­lent chances to win the game in the closing minutes as Irish keeper Dan Lyons stopped Hoosier forward Pete Stoyanovich on several occa­sions. 
The ultimate chance for In­diana came on a penalty kick with four minutes remaining. But Lyons stopped Herb Hal­ler's drive to the right corner, preserving the tie and setting up the exciting overtime per­iod. 
"I kind of knew where he was going, but not really," said Lyons. "There's still a lot of luck involved." 
The save also showed how the 1000-plus crowd played a role in the victory. 
"I told (two players) to get 
Do you feel like you have 2 left feet? Are you worried about embarassment at the next SYR? 
If you answered "yes" to either of the above, then... 
COME SWING WITH US!! 
The NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club provides the perfect opportunity to meet people and to learn the hippest dance steps around. No partner or experience is needed! It's not too late to come to where the action is... 
WHERE: Stepan Center WHEN: Tonignt & every Monday at 7:00pm 
WHO: NDSMC Students, Faculty, and Staff *Free Refreshments• 
l~,-o~ ~~ 1\.\.Vl-'(\)\)~ ~-t~OJ' ~~~0 Cll~-c~~~ 
Think Before You Drink 
·.4.·
Before You Drive 
-·­


----. 
the fans behind us because we've got the greatest fans," said Grace. "That's a lot of pressure for a guy taking a penalty kick with a thousand people not liking him." 
"The fans -they helped so much," added Lowney. "They wouldn't believe how much it helps. You do it for the team and you do it for yourself, but it's great when you do it for the fans also." 
Sunday'• Game Notre Dame 4, lndlane 3, OT Indiana 2 1 0 :i Notre Dame 1 2 1 4 
Firat Helf Indiana -Paul 1 (Shapert) 26:30. Indiana -Snow 4 (unassisted) 30:34. Notre Dame -Sternberg 5 (Lowney) 42:08. 
Second Half Notre Dame -Stebbins 1 (McCourt) 59:07. Indiana -Shapert 3 (Katner) 59:56. Notre Dame · Guignon 1 (penalty kick) 78:02. 
Overtime Notre Dame -McCourt 2 (Roemer) 90:25. 
Shota on GIMII Indiana 8 4 3 is Notre Dame 6 5 2 13 
SeYel -Killough (Indiana) 8, Lyons (Notre Dame) 8. Comer& -Indiana 9. Notre Dame 6. Foula -Indiana 23, Notre Dame 29. Yellow Cerda -Kanter (Indiana) 27:18, P. LaVigne (Notre Dame) 33:38, Augustyn (Notre Dame) 36:11, Stoyanollich (Indiana) 103:45. Red Cerda -P. LaVigne (Notre Dame) 69:37. Ref­-·Henry Steppin. Llneamen -Laslo Molner, Danny Nava. Attendance . 1 ,015 

Monday, September 14, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Defense 
continued from page 16 
(Smagala broke up Taylor's first), and the Irish quickly added another touchdown to in­crease the lead to 26-7. 
"We weren't trying to capi­talize on the fact that he's a young quarterback," Wells said of the scores. "We were just trying to play solid foot­ball. This year we're playing better as a team. Everybody's doing their job instead of every­one else's job. That's the way big plays happen." 
This cohesiveness was a big factor for everyone. 
"The down linemen pres­sured a lot," said Southall, who was making his first start at free safety. "That just makes it so much easier on the sec­ondary. We can jump some of their shorter routes and make 
things happen. "I think on the first one, (Brown) may not have seen  
WANTED USC vs. ND  

FOOTBALL TICKETS 
213-422-2812 
EARLY AM OR EVENINGS 
me. On the second one, he (Taylor) rushed because.of the pass rush. Everyone did their job and made it easy for me." 

Corny Southall 

With everyone working hand in hand, it made it that much easier for the entire unit. 
"If the line gets a great rush and the coverage is smart, it can get a pick, which happened today," Figaro said. "Ifthere's great coverage, the defense might get a sack. It's working hand-in-hand, and that's the way this defense is going to be." 
If that's so, the Irish defense might be in for a lot more publicity. 
Alpha-Omega Players
: In
• -1 ..___. ~-· 
: tiS ~ ~ ...\__. : ~0 ."""'
1 N8A£1lRS_...~\II···WI"············.·.,.:~·'... J'
r·ll7\. .. _: .,.-. 
t-..:::.. ·· ' f&0 ll "'1 
.-..-... ,.....,_ t....._ . "~"-~·:> 
._... ._~ ·· · I,Sl2 II'CNdway Pwformancesi --,._ 
Monday, September 14 7 ·OOpm 
0

• ~e;Notre Dame Room-2nd ~~0 ~ 
Floor LaFortune c.,~O C:><:S -..J 
FREE admission ~~ 
: 


ILLUSIONS 
He escapes from locked Trunks. 
He floats Ladies on Points of Swords. 
l-Ie manipuiates Raw Eggs without breaking. (most of the time) 
He swallows Double-Edged Rawrs. 
He thrusts sabres through Friends. 
He does Card Tricks While He Raps. 
He even does his own taxes. But most of all.... He makes you Laugh and have a Great Time. 
Monday, September 14 
La Fortune Main Lobby 
12:00 p.m. Teaser 
1:00 p.m. Magic Workshop 
5:00 p.m. Main Performance 
Sponsored Student Union Board 
Irish tennis eases past NIU 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Last year, Northern Illinois University was the biggest challenge to the Notre Dame women's tennis team in the North Star Conference. 
If that's still the case, the Irish might have proved last Saturday how much distance they have put between them­selves and the rest of the con­ference. 
Notre Dame thrashed the Huskies, 9-0. In nine matches, the Irish won 18 of 19 sets. Only fourth-seeded Alice Lohrer was required to go more than the minimum of two sets on her way to victory. 
"I knew we were better this year than we had been in the past," said Irish coach Michele Gelfman. "Itwas important for the team to get in a competitive match with another school. It was a good test on how strong and mentally tough we are." 
If this dual match, the opening match of the fall season for the Irish, was any test, Notre Dame has quite a 
bit of mental toughness this season. 
Each of the singles players had quite an easy time of it in the first set of their matches. While the second sets of the singles matches were closer, the Irish enjoyed similar suc­cess. 
"In the past we'd lose our mental toughness in the second set and let the matches drag into a third set," Gelfman said. "Here, we were lagging in the second sets, but we were able to come through." 
Singles winners included top­seeded Ce Ce Cahill, 6-0, 6-2, second-seeded Stephanie Tolstedt, 6-0, 7-5, third-seeded Michelle Dasso, 6-2, 6-4, Loh­rer, 6-3, 1-6, 6-3, fifth-seeded Kim Pacella, 6-1, 6-4, and sixth­seeded Resa Kelly, 6-3, 6-1. 
In doubles matches, Lohrer and Dasso won, 6-2, 6-0, Cahill and Tolstedt won 6-2, 6-1, and Pacella and Natalie Illig won 6-4, 6-3. 
"We executed in a match what we did in practice," Gelfman said. "In the past we'd practice a lot of things, but in a match we would fall back to our old habits." 
Next weekend, the Irish will head for Bloomington, Ind., to participate in the Midwest Fall Invitational. The tournament is an individual flight competi­tion with no team scores. Italso should provide the Irish players with considerably tougher opposition. 
"We need to get in a situation where we play the (University of) Indiana people and the ranked people," Gelfman said. "We don't play Indiana in a dual meet, and they're consis­tently in the Top 20. 
"I feel we're strong enough this year to send a singles player or doubles team to the NCAA's, hopefully." 
! • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •: By MOLLY MAHONEY 
: Sports Writer 
•

ND field hockey drops two 
The Notre Dame field hockey 
• team lost 3-0 to Michigan and 
4-0 to Kent State this weekend, 
falling to 0-2-1 overall. On Saturday, the Irish 
received little hospitality from theWolverinesastheytraveled to Ann Arbor to take on Big Ten 
• rival Michigan. The Irish were unable to tally 
a goal against a strong Mic­higan team but were able to keep the game close going into halftime down 1-0. Notre Dame's offense repeatedlypressured the Wolverine defense with shots on goal but were eventually overwhelmed 
by a more experienced Mic­higan team. 
"The team played well as a team," said Irish head coach Jill Lindenfeld, "we had some good scoring opportunities and 
did a good job -moving the ball and passing, getting intercep­
tions  and  denying  them the  
ball."  
Senior  co-captains  M.J.  

Beetel and Benet DeBerry
anchored the strong play of the Irish squad. Beetel played an outstanding game as goalie, 
recording 11 saves for the defense. DeBerry performed well at the forward position for 
the Irish and was instrumental 
in the offensive attack. 
Sophomore forward Debbie Charlesworth did well as did her teammate freshman Patty Ahearne who Lindenfeld 
believes is "proving to be a very consistent forward" for the team. 
"Right now we want to con­centrate on improving our passing and scoring oppor­tunites," said Lindenfeld, "but I am pleased with the way the girls ke t their poise and con-
AL 

SOCIETY 
IT'S 1ST MEETING WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 16 In Room 12 
Nieuwland  Science  7:00PM  
All  new  members  welcome;  
come  and  see  what  we're  about  

College of Business Meet the firms Night Tuesday, September 15 
6:45 pm -I 0:00 pm Monogram Room 
Representatives from: 
IC Industries 
Coopers &Lybrand 
Peat Manuick 
Deloitle, Haskins & Sells 
Price Waterhouse 
Crowe. Chizek & Co. 
Oeneral Hills 
HcOladdren. Hendrickson 
Prudential Bache 
Seidman & Seiaman 
Baxter 
Arthur Young 
Arthur Anderson 
Touche Ross 
Ernst & 
l!J: Others 
Learn about exciting career & 
& Pullen 

internship opportunities sponsored 
by: Beta Alpha Psi 
trol." 
At Friday's game, however, things were not quite as cheer­ful for the Irish as they suffered a disappointing 4-0 loss at Car­tier Field to a powerful Kent State team that was able to dominate the tempo of the game with their disciplined play. 
Playing on the turf for the first time this year, the Irish were unable to counteract Kent State's persistent attacks and control the ball Jong enough to establish a threat. 
"As a whole we did not play well as a unit," said Linden­feld, "it was just a horrible breakdown of fundamentals." 
First-half action was dominated by Kent State. The first goal was scored at 14:46 into the game and the second came at the 28:32 mark. 
Frustrated by the swarming offensive assault, the Irish were often caught retreating and found it difficult to put what Lindenfeld referred to as 
"consistent pressure  on their  
defense."  
Kent  State  found  the  net  

again at 24:01 in the second half and added one more insurance goal at 32:50 to seal the victory. 
"We had a lot of trouble con­trolling the ball and keeping it on our sticks," said sophomore forward Mindy Breen, "they had excellent drives that just went through our offense and defense." 
Kent State was able to con­vert on three of their eleven shot attempts while Notre Dame came up empty-handed on all six shots on goal. 
"They took advantage of our mistakes," said Lindenfeld. "We did not maintain posses­sion for an extended period of time and could not get a num­ber of shots off in succession." 



I 
1 
j 
I I 
l 
I 
1 
i 
I 
1 
I' 
..,.. · 1 

Notre Dame's Brandy Wells sticks Michigan's Jamie Mor­ris in Saturday's upset victory. The Irish defense dominated 
Rain delays Open 
the Wolverines and caused several key turnovers. Dennis Corrigan features the defense's strong play on page 16. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Rain replaced reign as the headline story at the U.S. Open Sunday. 
Steady showers delayed Ivan Lendl's bid for a third straight Open title at the National Ten­nis Center and his singles final against Mats Wilander was res­cheduled for 2 p.m. EDT Mon­day. 
Although it rained through­out the day, tournament offi­cials waited until 4:20p.m. to postpone the day's program which also was to include the finals of the women's doubles and mixed doubles. 
On Saturday, defending champion Martina Navratilova staked her claim as the world's no. 1 female player by beating top-seeded Stem Graf to wui her fourth U.S. Open title. 
t d to avoid ex-
Officials wan ~ final to Moo­

tending the men s day when the national televi­sion audience would be much smaller and some tick­etholders might not be able to attend. Nevertheless, CBS will televise the Lendl-Wilander final Monday. Lendl has reached the Open final for the sixth straight year. 
li. 
He lost to Jimmy Connors in 
lj 
'1 1982 and 1983, and was beaten by John McEnroe in 1984. He beat McEnroe the following 
year to win his first Open title and defended the champion­lj ship in 1986 with a victory over Milosalv Mecir. 
I~ 
Wilander owns two Australian Open ·and two French Open titles but has never won the U.S. Open or


'l ~ 
Wimbledon. The 23-year-old 
Swede has met Lendl three times in Grand Slam finals,11 winning the 1983 Australian 
ll 
\i Open and the 1985 French Open and losing the 1987 French Open. 
Navratilova handed Graf her second defeat in 63 matches this year with a convincing 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 victory at the National Tennis Center. 
Graf will retain her No. 1 status when the new computer rankings are released Monday. But Navratilova said before the Open that she would consider herself No. 1 if she added the Open championship to her 1987 Wimbledon title even though they would be her only two titles of the year. 

It was the third Grand Slam final between Graf and Nav­ratilova this year. Graf won the French Open while Nav­ratilova captured Wimbledon. 
UNCLES' IRIIII PUB 
4609 GRAPE RD. MISHAWAKA JMS PLAZA 277-5680 
LARGE SCREEN TVTO WATCH 
····························~
i Chicago 

Bears  :  
:  vs  :  
:New  York  Giants:  

• 
Pitchers only $2.00 

• 
2 ID's required 



NO MEANs NO 
C.A.R.E. 
THE VICTIMAND THE FENDER 
Monday, September 14, 1987 6:45pm Carroll Hall, Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's 
CollegeTHE DATING 
GAME Tuesday', September 15, 1987 6:45pm Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE Thursday, September 17, 1987 6: 45 pm Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's 
THE QUESTION OF PORNOGRAPHY Sunday, September 20, 1987 6:45pm Montgomery Auditorium, La Fortune Center University of Notre Dame 
HELPING SKILLS Monday, September 21, 1987 6:45pm Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's 
Holtz 
continued from page 16 
scoring on an 18-yard touch­down run by freshman tailback Ricky Watters. 
Watters high-stepped over a defender at the line of scrim­mage and put on a burst of speed to get to the right sideline and into the endzone. That touchdown followed junior free safety Corny Southall's second interception of the game. 
"The entire defense did a great job," Southall said. "When the linemen and linebackers are pressuring the quarterback like they did today, it makes it a whole lot easier back in the secondary. We were all relentless. We wanted this game, and it just feels great to win it." 
The secondary got in on pres­suring Brown as well. Sopho­more cornerback Stan Smagala laid a vicious hit on Brown as he released the ball in the first frame, and senior linebacker Cedric Figaro came up with the interception. 
That led to Notre Dame's first score, a 44-yard Gradel field goal. The senior walk-on was good on two of three field­goal attempts and perfect on his two extra points. 
Morris fumbled on the first Wolverine play from scrim­mage after Gradel's first field goal, and Jeff Kunz fell on it for the Irish. 
Three plays later, Andrysiak found Tim Brown double cov­ered in the endzone, and the senior flanker outjumped his defenders and pulled in an 11­yard touchdown reception. 
Andrysiak estimated his time in the pocket at about 10 seconds on that play, as the Irish offensive line held the Michigan rush at bay. 
"I saw the guy in front of me," Brown said. "But I didn't know there was a guy behind me. After I found that out, I couldn't believe he (Andrysiak) threw it." · That score gave Notre Dame a 10-0 first-quarter lead, and Notre Dame took that advan­tage into the lockerroom at halftime. 
Southall's second intercep­tion of the game in the third quarter gave Notre Dame the ball at its own 45-yard line, and sophomore fullback Braxston Banks dove over from one yard out to complete another scoring drive after a turnover. That gave the Irish a commanding 17-0 advantage. 
Andrysiak was 11-of-15 for 137 yards in the air. He threw one up for grabs and was inter­cepted with 12 seconds left in the first half, but Michigan didn't have enough time to put points on the board. 
"I think (Terry) played very well," Holtz said. "It was a big win for us-a team win. We had 
*Knights ofthe Castle Men's Halnlyllng 
YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
212-oa12 2n-1s91 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. $8 ~rC~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts
1 Reg. $8 family hilimJttas

r-------------------11I 
: ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I ~~I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
a pretty conservative game plan and we executed." 
"I guarantee you we're not as bad as we looked today," Schembechler said. "We 
, looked bad. Notre Dame is a good team . . . They're probably not as good as they looked. We're both probably somewhere in between," 
The Irish are 1-0 for the first time since 1983. 
Saturday's Glome 
Notre Dame  10  0  7  9  -26  
Michigan  0  0  7  0  -7  
Scoring  

NO -Gradel 44 FG NO -Brown 1D-yd pass from Andrysiak (Gradel kicl<) 
NO -Banks 1 yd run (Gradel kick) 
UM -McMurtry 12-yd pass from D. Brown (Gillette kick) NO -Gradel 38 yd FG NO -Watters 18-yd run (pass failad) 
NO UM First downs 19 17 Rushing attempts 59 31 Net Yards Rushing 199 189 Net Yards Passing 137 126 Passes comp-attemptad 11-15 8-23 Had interceptad 1 4 Total Net Yards 336 315 Fumbles-lost o-o 3-3 Penanies-yards 8-56 3-25 Punts-average 5-39.4 4-44.3 lndlvlduet ~. 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Green 12-46; Johnson 11-41; Brooks 6-22; Watters 3-21; Andrysiak 9-20; Michigan: Morris 19-128; D. Brown4-38; Webb5-19; Bunch 2-6; Taylor 1-(-2); 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Andrysiak 11-15-1,137; Michigan: D. Brown 4-15-3,54; Taylor 4-8-1,72; 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Brown 3-40; Green 3-22: Dumas 1-25; Jacobs 1-23; Heck 1-17: Mic­higan: Kolesar 2-38: D. Walker 2-34; McMurtry 2-16; J. Brown 1-33: Webb 1-5; 
Attendance -106,098 

Monday, September 14, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
3:00p.m. G.T.E. Emerging Scholar Seminar by Dr. F.M.A. Salam from Michigan State University. 356 Fitzpatrick. 
4:15-5:00p.m. Individual Develop­ment Within the Family "Preparation for Marriage: Can You Really Leave Home?" by Prof. David Olson, Univer­sity of Minnesota. Library Auditorium. 
6:45 p.m. CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) lecture "The Victim and the Offender," speakers will be Peter Russell and Sarah Cook, Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's. 
7:00p.m. Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre Film "Crime de Mon­sieur Lange," directed by Jean Renoir. Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 210-214 CCE. 
7:30p.m. WWF Superstars of Wres­tling, ACC Arena. $12 and $9. 7:30 ­
9:00 p.m. An Introduction to Natural Family Planning Lecture with slide presentation by the Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joe County. Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
8:00p.m. Department of Philosophy Perspectives on Rationality Series Lec­ture "Rationality, Part I," by Prof. Al­vin Goldman, University of Arizona. Li­brary Lounge. • 
9:00 
p.m. Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre Film "October," di­rected by Sergei Eisenstein, USSR. An­nenberg Auditorium. 

9:00 
p.m. Notre Dame Jazz Combo Concert, Washington Hall. 


Dinner Menus . 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Boneless Rib Sandwich Ham Steak Hawiian Roast Beef Italian Style Lasagne 
Sweet and Sour Pork Seafood Crepe Fettucini Alfredo 

29 Zeta follower DOWN 30 Cellist Cassis
~~-:rite·~-~ 1 Numbers man 32 Sag 
09112187

2 Trumpeter AI 33 Disintegrate
I I 3 Maple genus 34 Paths 49 SW tree 55 Give birth to a 4 Portly 36 Stairway parts grove lamb
1 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's I 
5 Direct 39 Plane curves 51 Loathe 56 Otiose 6 Rotating disk 40 Resin 52 Mother of 57 -Minor
I newspaper I 7 Aleutian 41 Oneness Zeus 58 Ger. Island 46 Lords and -53 Difficult river 
8 Experiment 47 TV panelist 54 Surrounded 62 Thoroughfares: again Francis by abbr.
L----------~~~~~~~~:___________1 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
SAfJt.Y, OUV€1?. /JI/(1€ HIS RA&&£P (}(.' tellf?Y ANP ~N Ot!T 5t.l~ !?flU &oal/JYE liS 1H6Y K€WCTANnY !?£M(N€P, 
fO H/5 M€MORreS. I 
Beernuts Mark Williams 


ACROSS 1 Scorches 6 Stygian 
10 Sign 14 Embroidered 
loop 15 Road for Pliny 16 Needle case 17 Mountain 
crest 18 -boy! 19 Control strap 20 Best pal 23 New Deal 
letters 24 Afr. village 25 Bob or dog 28 Calendar abbr. 31 Castro 35 Actor Linden 36 Ms Hayworth 37 -cotta 38 Almost never 42 Water 
containers 43 End a flight 44 Pindar 

specialty 45 Move furtively 46 Math points 47 Orangs 9 Wrapping 48 -La Douce paper 50 Paddle 10 Part of a.m. 52 Gershwin hit 11 Suits to ­59 Emoters 12 Demolish 60 Knotted 13 Stripe 61 Groups of 21 Depression 
cattle 22 Used a 63 NY canal floating 64 Small duck platform 65 Beginning 25 Goes to a 66 Does sums mall 67 Ancient 26 Hawaiian 
laborer Island 68 Brings up 27 Sp. hero 



"Tough Guys" 
FRIDAY
WEDNESDAY 
Engineering Aud. 
ODOSan Francisco 
La Fortune 
IPSO FACTO 
I 
SATURDAY
Open 
Washington Hall 
Stepan Courts 
all day 
"Hoosiers"
"Tough Guys" 
"Hoosiers" 
Engineering Aud. 
Aud.

Engineering Aud. 
·~---, 

Sports 
page 16
Monday, September 14, 1987 


Undefeated! Irish upset Wolverines, 26-7 
ND win ends So's streak 
1! 
; By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
I! 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -There's some­
j
.,. thing magical about home openers at 
' 
the University of Michigan. Until Saturday, the Wolverines wereI;I, unbeaten in opening games at Michigan 
I 
Stadium during Bo Schembechler's 18
I i 
years as head coach. You see, beating
l' 
Bo's squad just isn't done there. 
But in front of the Stadium's sixth­largest crowd of 106,098, there was nothing magical about the way Notre Dame ended that streak and handed Michigan a 26-7 defeat. The Irish scored after four of the seven Wolverine turn­overs and played almost error-free of­fense behind senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak. 
"I'm not surprised at how well we played," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "But this was so untypical of Bo's teams -making those turnovers. That 
/' just made the difference in the game." ),' The Irish had quite a hand in those " Wolverine mistakes. Notre Dame's defense consistently frustrated Mic­higan whenever the Wolverines ap­peared to be moving the ball. Junior quarterback Demetrius Brown felt the 
Tim Brown leaps between two defenders to down pass, gMng Notre Dame a 9-0 lead en the game at right. 
pressure of his first career start and 
haul down Terry Andrysiak's 11-yard touch-route to a 26-7 upset. Marty Strasen details 
threw three interceptions, while senior tailback Jamie Morris coughed up the ball twice despite gaining 128 yards on
Defense, turnovers spark victory 
19 carries for the hosts. 
Notre Dame's only real challenge fol­By DENNIS CORRIGAN the fumble recoveries) and George for 128 yards, the Irish forced him to lowed the lone Michigan score, which Streeter, each turned in tight perfor­fumble twice. And the Irish made the came on the last play from scrimmage 
Sports Editor 

mance to limit Brown to four comple­most of their opportunities. in the third quarter. Brown completed ANN ARBOR, Mich. -They call them­tions on 15 attempts (one of eight in the •In the first quarter, Figaro picked off a six-play, 73-yard drive by hooking up selves the "No Name Defense." first half) before he was replaced by a Brown pass after Smagala leveled the with Greg McMurtry for a 12-yard 
Saturday at Michigan this group of Taylor in the fourth quarter. junior quarterback. After a 12-play touchdown pass. That cut the Notre no names turned in a performance that "We moved around, and made it hard drive, Ted Gradel kicked a 44-yard field Dame lead to 17-7 and gave Michigan should get them some attention. The for (Brown),'' said Cedric Figaro of the goal to open the scoring. some momentum for the first time in Irish defense came up with seven turn­Irish defensive scheme. "He was never •On Michigan's first play after the kick­the game. overs, four of them later turned into in that situation where he had to come off, Morris fumbled. Jeff Kunz But the ninth-ranked Irish responded, scores, and generally made life rough in, start a game and read coverages. recovered it. Terry Andrysiak hit Tim moving the ball 50 yards on 12 plays, for Wolverine quarterback Demetrius If we stayed locked in, it would have Brown three plays later to put the Irish scoring three more points on a 38-yard Brown and his substitute Michael been that much easier for him. We tried up 10-0. Ted Gradel field goal and, perhaps Taylor in Notre Dame's 26-7 win. to move around and confuse him a little •In the third quarter, Southall made his most importantly, eating up more than 
The Irish came up with four intercep­bit. We made him think more. We first interception, and the Irish found six minutes on the clock in the fourth tions, two by Corny Southall and one moved around and he didn't know whe­paydirt 10 plays later to lead 17-0. quarter. each by Cedric Figaro and Wes ther to check off or stay with it." •In the fourth quarter, Southall picked "I felt that drive was critical," said Pritchett, and three fumble recoveries. Pass defense wasn't the only area off Taylor on his second attempt Holtz, whose Irish rounded out the Southall's secondary partners, Brandy where the No Names stood out. While Wells, Stan Smagala (who had one of Wolverine tailback Jamie Morris ran see DEFENSE, page 13 see HOLTZ, page 14 
w 
')) .:l Soccer team nips Hoosiers in OT, 4-3 
))',.iii 
By PETE GEGEN yards out left-footed it past the Indiana that they really had a chance. And they seconds later. Shapert hit the far corner )lj Assistant Sports Editor keeper into the far right corner. did." on a 25 yard shot from the left side, 
,I 
But to get to the overtime, the Irish Notre Dame took control of play the giving the Hoosiers a 3-2 lead. 
• The Irish soccer team beat the odds had to twice tie the game, play a man rest of the half, and midfielder Joe The situation then got worse as fresh­Sunday afternoon, twice coming from down the final 20 minutes and survive Sternberg began the first comeback man stopper Paul LaVigne was
lj! 
behind to force overtime and eventually a dozen excellent scoring chances for with just three minutes left in the half. whistled for his second yellow card, upsetting the Indiana Hoosiers, 4-3. the-Hoosiers. -Senior captain Steve Lowney hit a long adding up to one red card, so the Irish 
I The Irish victory was the first over "It's something about that Indiana cross which was headed over were left one man short on the field. the Hoosiers in 10 tries, giving Head red and white," said Grace. Sternberg's head, but the team's "There have been a lot of soccer Coach Dennis Grace a victory over his After an evenly-played first 20 leading scorer backpeddled and, with games where teams playing a man
111 
\I" former mentor, Indiana head coach minutes, the Hoosiers began to put the keeper out of position, headed it into down have come back and played '~'; Jerry Yeagely. pressure on the Irish in their own end, the goal. The half ended with the harder and pulled together a little bit {jl "When you have· a team down one resulting in two goals off restarts. For­Hoosiers up 2-1.
)'-l more," noted Grace.' )l goal and they only have 10 men and you ward John Paul headed home the first "Even when it was 2-0, you could tell The Irish did manage to pressure the 
have 11, and you lose the game, that's goal off a corner by midfielder Sean that we were going to come back," said Hoosiers on offense as Morris had aj!j very disheartening," said Grace's Shapert. Then forward Ken Snow Sternberg. "And after that goal we just break on goal with 14 minutes remain­\I former coach. "I credit Notre Dame. tallied his fourth of the season when he realized that we could take them." ing. He was tripped up from behind,
; J ~ 
I Dennis Grace who's one of my past hit a beautiful shot into the left corner Indeed it appeared that the Irish but no foul was called.
.: players and past assistants, has worked off a direct kick just outside the box, would overtake the Hoosiers when But the Irish kept pressuring, and the r·J, hard with this program. · giving Indiana a 2-0 lead. freshman forward Danny Stebbins, Hoosiers were whistled for pushing 1\ "If we were going to get beat in a Images of a year ago appeared when who had turned down a scholarship of­Notre Dame's Steve Lavigne in the ;JJ(t situation that would be considered an Indiana intimidated the Irish into a 2-0 fer to Indiana to play for the Irish, penalty area. Junior captain Johnny··r upset, I guess I'm glad it's one of my loss at Bloomington. This time, knocked home a rebound to tie the Guignon was called upon to take the 1!'1 past players." however, the Irish didn't back down. game at two. Sternberg and forward penalty kick with 12 minutes remaining 
' 
., The "South Bend Connection" was re­"I walked in front of the bench and Randy Morris had worked a beautiful in the second half . ·: \~ sponsible for the winning goal 25 put in four or five subs," said Grace, pass play in the corner to set up the "I've always dreamed about takingseconds into the first overtime period "and I said, 'If we get a goal in by cross which McCourt hit off the Indiana a penalty shot in this situation," said 
as Irish forward Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt halftime, they're in trouble.' And the keeper before Stebbins finished it off. took the ball played over his head by kids knew it. They really believed that But the first comeback was finished 
see SOCCER, page 12

midfielder Kurt Roemer and from 18 if they scored one and got it back to 2-1, as Indiana responded with a goal 49 










