Surrogate saga -page 3 

VOL. XXI, NO. 119 
FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1987 
the indepeodent student newspaper sen ing ~otre Dame and Saint \far) 's 

Senate overrides veto, votes for highway bill 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The Senate rejected a personal, last-minute plea from Pres­ident Reagan and voted Thursday to override his veto and enact into law an $88 billion highway and mass transit bill. 
The 67-33 vote, exactly the two-thirds majority necessary, capped two days of political struggle over the bill that became a high-stakes test of wills be­tween the Republican president and leaders of the Senate's Democratic majority. 
Democrats reclaimed one vote they had lost in an initial test on Wednesday, but Republicans were unable to switch any of the 13 GOP senators who voted to override the president's veto the day before. 
Besides authorizing highway and mass transit projects that the president had opposed as overladen with pork, the bill permits states to boost the speed limit on rural stretches of interstate highways to 65 miles per hour from the current 55 mph. 
But arguments over the substance of the legislation were overtaken by the political fight. 
Afterwards, though, the winners and losers alike sought to minimize the im­pact on the president's influence. 
"This isn't going to make or break the president of the United States," said Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd, 
see BILL, page 6 

Hearing of ND student postponed for second time 

By ANN KALTENBACH Senior Staff Reporter 

The pre-trial hearing of the 21-year­old Notre Dame student charged in con­

nection with the accident that resulted in the death of junior Michael Cogswell has been postponed to April 22. 
This marks the second time the hearing has been postponed. Originally scheduled for March 17, the trial had been postponed until Thursday. 
After the Jan. 29 recommendation of the St. Joseph County Grand Jury, County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said the student will be charged with driving under the influence of alcohol, a Class A misdemeanor. 
The charge carries a maximum punishment of one year in prison and a $5,000 fine, Barnes said. The student Carolyn Rey looks surprised as the could also be placed on probation.
weather takes a turn for the worse. Pic­On the same day, Barnes said the stu­tured are Rey, Megan Driscoll and dent was originally charged with driving under the influence of alcohol. 
The charge was dropped, however, so the case could be sent to the grand jury for review, he said. 
Upon review of the case, the grand 
jury recommended the student be 
charged with the misdemeanor. 
Barnes said he could not discuss why 
the grand jury recommended charging 
the student with a misdemeanor. 
He did say, however, "the entire fac­tual circumstances of Mr. Cogswell's death were exposed. And the grand jury, after reviewing the case, made what they thought was an appropriate recommendation." 
Cogswell, a 20-year-old Zahm Hall junior, died Dec. 6 from massive head injuries 10 hours after being struck on Saint Mary's Road. 



Abortion issue not solved until agreernentisreached,profsays 
By SHARON HEGG of abortion, "it is essential to tion of the Catholic Church, as Staff Reporter submit personal conviction to I see it, is that human life is scrutiny by other people. The a basic gifVgood. Itis the foun­
The abortion issue cannot Catholic community has been dation of all other good. There be solved until an agreement historically reluctant to do is human life from fertiliza­on the evaluation of human is this." tion. (For abortion) to be life­reached, according to Profes­saving1ife-serving there must sor of Christian Ethics Father be at stake a human life or Richard McCormick in a lec­the equivalent." ture Thursday night. McCormick feels that 
In the lecture titled "The public policy and moral Abortion Debate: The Wider teachings on abortion are in­Context," McCormick ex­tegrally related. Iffetal life is amined the issue of abortion regarded as human life, it in the context of moral issues should be protected by law. and public policy. "The problem is the "Abortion, the unjust feasability of a policy. Is a 
taking of a life, constitutes a particular law practical,major moral dilemma of so­adoptable? Permissive laws ciety today," McCormick mean injustice to the fetus. said. "The national debate Restrictive laws mean injus­usually falls to slogan(s), ti<!e to women." where some master evidence, The key problem is not the 
accurate or not, to support "definition of personhood--istheir position." the fetus a person--nor the According to McCormick, 
see ISSUE, page 6 
in order to address the issue 
Charity Ball seeks to raise money and consciousness 
By KENDRA MORRILL Staff Reporter 
The third annual Charity Ball to benefit the Catholic Relief Services will take place this Saturday. 
Danny Harrison, a fifth-year engineering and French major, founded the ball three years ago. Last year, he studied abroad in France and could not be a part of the ball, but is once again chairman this year. Sophomore Jill Gollen is assis­tant chairman. 
According to Harrison, the ball has been "a thriving suc­cess." The ball was in­augurated on April 20, 1985 and raised $11,000. In 1986, $18,500 was raised. The goal for 1987 is %20,000, Harison said. 
He said all benefits will go to Ethiopa and Third World countries, but the object of the ball is not just to raise money. 
"The basic goal is to raise consciousness and awareness about hunger and world suffer­ing," said Harrison. "Raising $2 would be OK if it makes 2,000 people aware (of these prob­lems)." 
Harrison stressed the need for Notre Dame students to be generous in their g1vmg. "We're so blessed with every-
see BALL, page 6 

Daylight Savings Time will not be in effect in parts of Indiana, so there's no need to set clocks back an hour. So don't touch those dials. 



~ r .... 

The Observer 

In Brief 
Mormon Churchpresident Ezra Taft Benson surprised many followers when he told women they should stay at home and care for children. Women in and out of the church condemned the declaration, saying the 87-year­old Benson, considered a prophet by the faithful, was out of step with the times and had added a burden of guilt to families with financial problems. Few Mormons believe that many of the 40 percent of the church's female mem­bers who are in the work force will forsake jobs and careers as a result of Benson's position. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Freshman Dorm Olympics will be held tomorrow on the East Stepan Football Field. Sign-up at the games starts at 1:30. Look for your dorm's banner. The games begin at 2 p.m. -The Observer 
BACCHUS will sponsor "Blank Generation" playing at the Fieldhouse Mall today from 4:30 to 6:30, weather permitting. -The Observer 
An Italian Mass will be held at 4 p.m. on Sunday in Badin Hall. Refreshments will be served after the Mass. 
-The Observer 
A Spanish Mass will be celebrated by Fr. Hesburgh on Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Farley Hall Chapel. The Mass is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. -The Ob­server 
Faculty Chamber Music Recital presents Laura Klugherz on Sunday at 4 p.m. in Washington Hall. For more information, contact Eric Kuehner at 239-6201. 
-The Observer 
Cathechumens and Candidates for full Communion will participate in the second scrutiny, which emphasizes an important aspect of conversion: repen­tance. The scrutiny will take place at Sacred Heart on Sunday at the 12:15liturgy. -The Observer 
The North Carolina Dance Theatre will perform classical and modern works tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The program concludes the Saint Mary's 1986-87 Performing Arts Series. -The Observer 
Ceramic artist Stephen Mickey will present a slide presentation today at 2:30 in the Isis Gallery on the third floor of Riley Hall of Art, Art History, and Design. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
ISO Elections will be held today from 3-5 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. All active members are eligible to vote. 
-The Observer 
Beta Alpha Psi has invited Ricardo Mora, vice president International of Ernst-Whinney in Miami to lec­ture on "Today's International Accountant." The lecture will be at 4:30 on Monday in 122 Hayes-Healy. All Beta Alpha Psi members must attend, and the lecture is open to all others. -The. Observer 

Weather 
Jim andTammiBakkerhadbetter snuggle up close together because the weather forecast calls for partly cloudy and cold today with a few snow flurries. High in the middle 30s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight and Saturday with a few snow flurries. Low in the lower 20s. High 

Saturday in the upper 30s. -Associated Press 

Design Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Viewpoint Copy Edator ...... nm Brennan Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor ......... Cindy Petrites Typesetters...................... Shawn Sexton Accent Layout ................ Ann Biddlecom .............................................. Dan Cahill ............................................ Karen Webb ........................................ Chris Reardon Typists ............................. Karen Vossen News Editor ...................... Regis Coccia ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Dotl Copy Editor. .. ....... Rob Hennig Ad Design............................ Anne Kelly Sport• Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch Photographer ...................... Mike Moran 
Color for today's paper provided through tbe generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile 0'-ner (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods. Tbe 0'-ner is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tbe Oblerver, P .0. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile 0'-ner is a member of Tbe AIIOdaled Preu. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 

Friday, April 3, 1987-page 2 


'Monk' is a regular guy, but don't tell the media 
What he reads, wears, eats and thinks has suddenly become important to more than his friends and family. 
'Monk' Malloy has become a celebrity. 
Room 141 no longer houses merely the Monk Malloy who is president-elect of the University and in-residence at Sorin Hall, but the Monk Malloy who is lionized by "60 Minutes" and the international media. If he were other than a priest, someone might think of packaging him and offering him contracts for endorsing eye­glass frames, tall-men's stores, and basketball sneakers. 
Maybe some have. 
Under the circumstances, an article in the public interest seems appropriate. Its purpose is to answer a few of the innumerable questions surrounding Monk and to dispel some of the myths and misinformation which circulates concerning the life of the president-to-be of the University of Notre Dame. 
His life begins each morning at around 9:30 a.m.--late by some standards--but not when you consider that Monk went to sleep between 3 and 4 a.m. the 'night' before. He does not eat break­fast. 
Approximately at 2 a.m., an hour or so before going to bed, Monk has a snack. Frequently, that consists of a bowl of cereal with 2 percent milk and some fruit. Earlier in the evening, he may have a Diet Coke and, once in a while, a bag of cheese flavored tortilla chips or Doritos. He eats a light lunch (vegetables, fruit) and dinner. 
He reads The New York Times, The South Bend Tribune, The Chicago Sun Times and The Chicago Tribune each day: When he's on the road, he reads USA Today. Monk flips to the sports pages with special attention to how the Celtics, Bears, and Redskins are doing and with not too much interest in hockey and baseball. His method for reading the Sunday edition of "The New York Times" consists of reading the Travel and Entertainment sections first, saving the front page, the News of the Week in Review, and the Magazine section for last. He sees many magazines, reading "anyone you can think of." 
Admitting an "addiction" to crossword puzzles at one time in his life that peaked while he was in San Francisco on sabbatical 8 years ago, he has since kicked the habit of spending an hour each day on the "The New York Times" version. In San Francisco, he also worked through several books of collected Times' cros­swords. 
He drives a 1982 Chevrolet Celebrity, beige, and when asked what kind of car he would like to drive, he admitted that he has a preference for any kind that runs. 
Chris Donnelly 
Assistant Production Manager 

-


The last movie he saw was claimed and honored "Platoon." He agreed with the critics that it was very good. He seldom is around for the evening news on TV, but fre­quently watches the early morning re-runs at 
1:30 or 2 a.m. on the Independent News Net­work. 
He knows that his position at Notre Dame will make him a very visible priest in the country and even the world. What he hopes people will see in him as priest is a sensitivity to other people's needs, a commitment to rein­terpreting the Gospel in contemporary terms and a willingness to center his life on other people. All of this can be summed up in the word "service"--service to, for, and on behalf of others. 
Monk's Catholic identity has a fallout on the University. The agenda for the president of a Catholic university is to preserve its Catholic character without only paying lip-service to its denominational affiliation. The authenticity of that commitment, he feels, is his to preserve and encourage. 
That may be apparent on the "60 Minutes" tentatively scheduled to be aired this spring on CBS. Once it became clear that the producers and interviewers of the show were friendly, Monk said, and following the advice of the PR department, he consented to their interview. It will be one of thousands that come with the territory of being president at Notre Dame. 
the much ac­





CLASS of 1988 
Well, almost there!-Our Senior Year! Senior year Is full of big events: Disorientation week, Uof MTrip I Party, Senior Class Trip, Senior Formal, the Ski Trip, Senior Month and many morel 
All we need to make these events a reality is your enthusiasm and participation. Unlike getting positions in the real world, our jobs require NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE. We want fresh ideas and new people (or fresh people with new ideas). 
All seniors-to-be should have received 2 forms in the mail, an application for senior council positions Oust check and circle whatever looks interesting) and a Senior Trip Choice Form. Please return both of these to your dorm rep by Friday. 
Remember, if you're looking for something else on that resume, working on class events means meeting lots of people and having fun at the same time. 
We have come up with some pretty impressive job titles and are really excited about having you on the team. 
Thanks, Diane, Sean, Amy & Jim 

The Observer 
Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 3 

Malloy calls for committee to study research, teaching 

By SHANNON OAKES Staff Reporter 
University President-elect Father Edward Malloy has called for the establishment of a committee to study the op­timal balance between re­search and teaching. 
The committee, to be ap­pointed by University Provost Timothy O'Meara, was estab­lished because Notre Dame professors are becoming more involved in research. 
"Under Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame has developed from a teaching university to a teaching and research univer­sity,"said O'Meara. "Both must be emphasized and every faculty member should be strong in both." 
There has been concern that 

ND AVE APTS Now Running for Fall 
Completely Furnished, Balconies, Off Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Ask about our Special Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AVE. 
234-6647 


'oll71~thi (ltntaA+ ''/(1$€ ,, /D!OO-2:00 ~ 
Notre Dame professors will look more toward research than toward teaching and thus neglect the education of stu­dents. This concern stems from the observation of other univer­sities that have become primarily research-oriented, to the detriment of their students. 

"In light of what we've seen happen at other universities what do we do to stop it from happening here?" said O'Meara. He said the commit­tee will strive to answer this question. "It will make specific recommendations, (but) there will not be mathematical solu­tions. 
"The committee will es­tablish proper expectations for the faculty and expectations of the University of how faculty should strike a balance (between research and teach­ing) and suggest ways to main­tain the balance," O'Meara said. 
O'Meara said the need for professors to be involved in re­search as well as in teaching is obvious. "With no research, professors in every field be­come stale," said O'Meara. 
The expectation of Notre Dame towards its professors is in both teaching and research. "To gain tenure there is an ex­pectation of teaching, research and publication, and service, said Executive Vice President­elect Father William Beau­champ. "A professor cannot get promoted without research and publication or if he is an awful teacher," he said. 


Kremlin says U.S. soldier defects; Pentagon unable to confirtn report 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The Kremlin an­nounced Thursday an Ameri­can soldier and his West Ger­man wife had defected to the Soviet Union and been granted ·asylum because they feared po­litical persecution. 
The U.S. Army in West Ger­many and the Pentagon in Washington could not confirm the defection, which would be the first by an American ser­viceman to the Soviet Union since the Vietnam War. 
The Pentagon issued a state­ment, however, saying it was investigating an enlisted man with a name similar to that an­nounced by the Soviets who had deserted in West Germany a month ago. It said it was not certain if he was the same per­son. 
The reported defection came at a time when the U.S. em­bassy in Moscow was trying to deal with an spy case in which two former Marine guards have been charged with espionage. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov an­nounced the defection at a reg­ular news briefing and said, "They have chosen the Turkmenian S.S.R. for their honeymoon.'' 
He identified the soldier as William Roberts of the U.S. Army, whom he said he had been stationed in West Ger­many, and his wife as P. Neumann, a West German. 
Both have been granted poli­tical asylum because "they were afraid of being victimized for their progressive views," Gerasimov said. He said Roberts "had been perse­cuted" while stationed with the Army in West Germany. 
Gerasimov did not say when the couple entered the Soviet Union or give any other details. 
Army Maj. Dennis Pinkham, a spokesman for the U.S. european command in Stut­tgart, West Germany, said mil­itary officials were attempting to verify the report. 


Surrogate mother vows to continue fight for the custody of 'Baby M' 
Associated Press 
RED BANK, N.J. -Surrogate mother Mary Beth Whitehead, stripped of the right to see her daughter again, vowed Thursday to continue her legal battle for the child, saying she'll never stop loving the little girl known as Baby M. 
"Until Sara comes home, my fight will continue,'' Whitehead said haltingly, with tears in her eyes. "We will not accept the decision of one judge as the final determination of a whole society that we should be per­manently separated." 
"We love each other very much," she said in her first public statement since Tues­day, when Judge Harvey Sorkow issued the nation's first ruling upholding a disputed surrogate parenting contract. 
"I believe that there is some­thing so wrong and so harm­fully unnatural about the sur­rogate practice that our New Jersey appellate courts will return Sara to me," she said, adding that she will keep the child's crib set up. 

Whitehead named the year­old child "Sara," but since Tuesday's historic ruling the baby has been Melissa Elizabeth Stern in the eyes of the law. The biological father, William Stern, won custody and Sorkow, minutes after reading his 121-page decision, allowed Stern's wife, Elizabeth, to adopt the child. 
The case, which brought worldwide attention to sur­rogate parenting, was sparked by Whitehead's refusal to honor the $10,000 contract un­der which she was artificially inseminated with Stern's sperm. 

The 29-year-old housewife refused to give the baby to the Sterns and, with police officers at her Brick Township home, handed the baby out a window to her husband. 

The Observer 
Friday, April 3, 1987-page 4 
Fire breaks out in mine trapping 53, killing 1 
Associated Press 
MURDOCHVILLE, Quebec ­A fire broke out in a copper mine in the Gaspe area of eas­tern Quebec, trapping dozens of miners underground over­night. Mine officials said today one worker died but 53 others were found alive. 
The miners were found in emergency lunchroom shelters on different levels of the Gaspe Mine, spokeswoman Dominique Archambault said. 
By mid-afternoon, 11 of the 54 men who were in the mine when fire began Wednesday night had been brought to the surface, along with the body of the one victim. Only one of those rescued was injured. 
Another 29 men were located in a sealed-off and ventilated lunchroom at the 2,600-foot level, and the 13 remaining miners were found in other shelters, Archambault said. 
"It's great news," she said. 
The cause of the fire was not known, but mine officials were ruling out an explosion. The fire started about 2,500 feet below-ground. 
The fire trapped the miners during a shift change at 7 p.m. Wednesday, and many of the workers made it safely to the lunchroom area where they have fresh water, ventilation and radio communications with ground level. Mine offi­cials said they would not let the miners leave until the smoke was cleared. 
The copper mine, both under­ground and open-pit, has a work force of 800 and is the major employer in the town of Murdochville, population 3,900. It is located about 250 miles northeast of Quebec City on the Gaspe Peninsula at the mouth of the St. Lawrence River. 
Noranda Inc., one of Canada's biggest corporations, owns the mine. 


Making tracks 

Steve Geary, a sophomore from Sorin Hall, treads across the main quad with a bundle of 

Beirut profs still held captive 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Moslem 
kidnappers released Thursday 
a videotape showing U.S. 
hostage Jesse Turner saying 
his abductors were determined 
to trade him and three other 
educators for 400 Arab 
prisoners in Israel. 
Turner, 39, of Boise, Idaho, said Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine was "firm in its demand" that a swap be arranged. The group had claimed responsibility for the Jan. 24 abduction of the four. 
But his voice was barely audible in the poor quality, three-minute tape, which was delivered to the independent Beirut newspaper An-Nahar. 
Reporters who saw and lis­tened to Turner on the videotape said they were having difficulty transcribing what he said. 
But they said he appeared to be making a new appeal to the American administration to put pressure on Israel to ar­range the swap so that their lives would be saved. 
Previous communiques from the group said hostage Alann Steen, 47, of Boston, was dan­gerously ill and might die. It cited high blood pressure and breathing difficulties. 
The group said Steen's illness prompted it to renew its offer of the swap, which Israel has rejected. 
Steen, Turner, fellow Amer­ican Robert Polhill, 53, of New York City, and Indian Mit­hileshwar Singh, 60, were kid­napped at the U.S.-affilated Beirut University College in Beirut's Moslem sector. Singh is a legal resident alien of the United States. 
The release of the new tape came a few hours after stu­dents rallied on campus to demand the release of the four teachers held hostage for 68 days. 
"All of you stand up and call, call for the release of our kid­napped four," a dozen fine-arts students chanted. 



This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
$ 

the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. 
For just $89 round trip, you and your friends 

will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 

CIIGO GREYHOUND
T.6Analeave the driving to us~ 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I. D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 2/V87 through 4/30/87. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada.© 1987 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 

The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 5 




Security Beat 
Wednesday 
12:49 a.m. -An off-campus resident 
12:46 a.m.-A Cavanaugh Hall resi­reported that his ski jacket was dent was transported by ambulance taken from the Law Library. The to St. Joseph's Medical Center from value of the jacket was $250. the Stepan Basketball Courts. The victim was treated for a broken leg. 1:30 a.m. -A student reported that 
his jacket and keys were taken from 
7:29 p.m. -An off-campus student the Stepan Center. The value is re­suffered minor injuries when the ported at $70. bicycle he was riding clipped the front bumper of a stopped car. Ap­10:30 a.m.-A cassette player was parently, the rider lost his balance found in the ACC concourse by the and fell from the bike. He was cleanup crew. The item was brought transported to St. Joseph's Medical to the Security Office for safe Center and later to the Student keeping. The player is valued at $40. Health Center to be admitted. 
11:04 a.m.-A Pasquerilla West resi­Thursday dent reported that her locked bicycle 
was taken from the bike rack outside 12 a.m. -A student reported receiv­the dorm. The bike is valued at $300. ing a threatening phone call at his residence. 
Israelis collect $150,000 for ND scientist's son 
Associated Press "A mistake was made," he 
said. "We should never spy on 
The father of convicted spy our friends. Apparently, it Jonathan Pollard said worked both ways." Thursday that $150,000 in The attorney, Harold Katz, private contributions from Is­who holds dual American­rael for his son's defense ex­Israeli citizenship, has denied penses is "spent already." any involvement. A Reagan ad­
Morris Pollard, a ministration source says inves­microbiologist at the Univer­tigators believe Katz's Wash­sity of Notre Dame, said Is­ington apartment was used to raelis who gave money were photocopy military documents "sore at that government" for obtained by Pollard. failing to help his son. Israeli Air Force officer 
"It came from the people of A viem Sella has been charged Israel, not the government," by federal -rosecutors with Pollard said. "These were recruiting Pollard to spy for Is­donations by people on the rael. street." He defended Israel against
Defense expenses for Jonat­any animosity that may have 
han Pollard and his wife, Anne been aroused by the case. "Is­Henderson Pollard, have been rael is the only democracy in estimated at $200,000. Pollard, the Middle East," he said. 32, a formal Navy intelligenc.e Morris Pollard said his fam­
analyst, was sentenced to life ily has received letters of sup­in prison for espionage. Mrs. port from 150 Notre Dame fac­Pollard was sentenced to a five­ulty colleagues "telling us they year term for her role in the love us, that we have friends 
spy operation. here." 
The defense fund contribu­tions were to be dispatched to The South Bend communityMorris Pollard through the as well has been generally sup­Bank of Israel, but the elder portive, he said. "We are livingPollard said he has not in a haven of kindness here," received the money and doesn't he said. know when it will arrive. In a related development, Is­
"It's spent already," he said. rael reportedly has refused to 
Pollard said he had no allow an American attorney criticism of the prosecution of living in Tel Aviv to leave the his son and daughter-in-law. country or answer questions
"I'm not denying his guilt. He from U.S. investigators about broke the law," he said. the Pollard espionage case. 
Appearing Friday: 




RISE 

Senior Club Cup 

Refills $.75 


The Observer!Mlchael Moran
Frozen fans 

Only the hardiest of fans turned out for prelim­weather. Games will continue to be played in inary games of the Bookstore Basketball tourn­colder than normal temperatures for the ament. The action was much hotter than the weekend. 
Pope speaks during Chilean visit 
Associated Press many--after Pinochet seized seriously, in clashes with power in a 1973 coup. "delinquents who do not under­
SANTIAGO, Chile -Pope "We are desperate and stand the meaning of the papal John Paul II told 80,000 youths repressed," said student visit." who packed an open-air Filamir Landeros. The pope The police statement did not 
stadium Thursday night their listened intently and the mention civilian casualties. faith could transform society. stadium filled with cheers and Protesters smashed all the Student orators departed from applause. windows of two police buses their texts to denounce the that led the pope on a crisp, right-wing regime and what Landeros complained of brilliant autumn morning to one called its "culture of living in a country "where they the squalid La Bandera slum, death." impose on us a culture of whose 90,000 people are 
Earlier, slum dwellers death.'' It was a twist on Pinoc­plagued by drug addiction, thronged to welcome the pon­het's own welcoming state­prostitution and poverty. tiff but stoned the police who ment to the pope on Wednes­Helmeted riot police used escorted him. Some shared his day, when the ruler described their shields to push the crowds podium to accuse Chile's mili­the threat of communism as a back. Witnesses reported tary regime of torture, murder "culture of death." seeing several people who ap­and causing their poverty. John Paul told the youths that peared to be injured. 
The pope told a conference of if they led lives "rooted in faith The scene was repeated bishops that he hopes for a and the love of Jesus Christ, you when John Paul left and police quick return of democracy to will be capable of transforming fired tear gas into the stone­Chile. He spent nearly 45 society, of constructing a more throwing crowds. minutes with President humane, more brotherly and For reasons that were not Augusto Pinochet, who the pon­more Christian Chile." clear, the local church erected tiff has said runs a dictatorial "Now, in this stadium, a a backdrop on the makeshift government. Vatican sources place of sporting events, but stage that depicted wooden described the meeting as cour­also of pain and suffering in shacks but hid the real ones. teous but would not reveal past eras, I want to repeat to People chosen by Roman details. young Chileans: assume your Catholic priests were brought 
Three students departed responsibilities." to the pope's side and spoke out from prepared texts in the rally The national police said against Pinochet's government at the same stadium where aut­Thursday night that since the to a crowd of several hundred horities had held thousands of pope's arrival Wednesday, 42 thousand. leftists--and tortured and killed police had been injured, one 
University radio and televi­sion stations carried the denun­ciations, but government tele­vision cut the sound during that portion of John Paul's appear­ance and substituted back­ground music.
With 

"I have listened to you with much attention, and my spirit 
I :::: 

is deeply moved," the pope

Flowers. ( 
said. He urged the faithful to "use all means within your power to banish from your
·.·. Flowers Say
:·:· 

country all the causes of unjust 
poverty."
It Best!® 

!·····~~······~~·····!
I I
Easter is a special time of year when you

I i 
: ~ l!_~t .--· :
want to remember your family and friends. 

• VI'-7 c·.n • 
I 
Show how much you care by sending the 



: e~ : 
e APRIL •
EASTER ARRANGEMENT. 

I 
• • Wed. 1 Eddy C....__ • 

• Fri. 3 Prlldlla Pllllllpe a Frlenclo • 
• SaL • Duke To-a "-Trio • 
e • Wed. I Junior Welle e 
• Frt. 10 Heellatlon 11"-ll8nd • 
• s.t. 11 HMIIatlon ...... ll8nd • : • Wed. 151119 Twtot a Mellow F-.. : e Frt.l7~o e
I 
.... 

SM.IISI\no • Wed. 22 Lonnie llrooka •
)~ 
.·.· 
SaL 21 Soultlaldll Denny a The Ski-• (0 Windy C•ty Wlldnesday's· e Ch•caoo Blues Art•sta) • 
Sund8ye, Llwr.!Wwy ...,_, WVPE OJ e Lund! a 01.-T.-..Sun.. e ALLC·n-e 
100 Center, Mishawaka : 256~710 •
272-NDND 
You muot be 21; cover charged. : 

..............................~..--~.---~~....................................~ ·······················• 
---------------------------------' 
~-----~-------~-----~---­
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 6 
telling the senators, "I beg you At issue was a measure that for your vote. Give us this vote permits states to raise the

Bill 'Spring Day on Campus' 
and let us stand for a majority speed limit to 65 miles per hour

continuedfrom page 1 
(within the Republican Party) on rural stretches of interstate D-W.Va. "There will be other that can run this party." highways and earmarks more 

brings guests to SMC 
vetoes." But after the extraordinary than 100 highway demonstra­
Reagan issued a statement meeting, Republican Leader tion projects tailor-made for in­saying he was "deeply disap­Bob Dole of Kansas told the dividual lawmakers. pointed" by the outcome but Senate, "I think it's safe to say Reagan vetoed the bill last vowing to continue the battle no minds were changed." week, calling it a budget-buster against excessive federal Reagan, after deciding on that is larded with wasteful spending. short notice to travel from the projects. 
White House spokesman White House to the Capitol, Democrats maintained that Marlin Fitzwater said the spent two hours trying to press the bill is upder budget, and defeat would help the president his case. First he met with all said that sustaining the veto by demonstrating his willing­Republican senators, then with would cause the loss of 800,000 ness to fight in his final 21 the 13 who sided with jobs during the warm weather months in office. Democrats in the first vote on construction season. 
Hours before the vote, Wednesday. But beyond the legislation it­Reagan had upped the ante in "The president is heighten­self, the veto fight became a terms of his political prestige ing the stakes by coming up test of Reagan's standing and by visiting the Capitol to plead here," Byrd said. "But I don't prestige after months of politi­with GOP senators to back him. blame him, giving it the old col­cal damage caused by the Iran­
Fitzwater quoted Reagan as lege try." Contra affair. 


The ObserverA\ficbael Moran

Frozen food 
Holy Cross residents Doug Giorgio and Jim The two sophomores braved the snow to get to Hering look unaffected by the dreary surround­dinner Thursday night. ings as they walk toward the South Dining Hall. 
Nuclear experts form special team 
Associated Press  Adair of nuclear energy," Dr.  versity  of  California  at  Los  
NEW ORLREANS-An inter­national team of nuclear ex­perts is being established and will be available to go anywhere a nuclear accident strikes, an American physican who aided victims of the Cher­nobyl disaster said Thursday. "It will be sort of the Red  Robert Gale said at a news con­ference at the American Col­lege of Physicians, referring to the famed oil-rig expert known for his skill at capping wells. "It will fly to the site of any nuclear accident to give advice . . . about response and treat­ment," said Gale, a bone­marrow specialist at the Uni- Angeles School of Medicine. The team will be made up of five or six people, plus a backup for each member, Gale said. "We hope to have it func­tional on the anniversary of the Chernobyl accident ­April 26," he said.  








Issue 
continuedfrom page 1 
question of when human life begins," according to McCor­mick. "The key problem is the evaluation of human life." For McCormick, this problem is complex and cannot always be solved directly. 
The difficulty in public policy lies in the fact that "public policy cannot exist success­fully unless there is some ground of agreement. Here, public policy turns to the eval­uation of human life, where there is disagreement," said McCormick. 
According to McCormick public policy should involve procedures, principles and ap­plication. "Matters should be judged in Congress. Through our representatives, we share in the democratic process. I think if (we) turned to an elec­torate, we would have a remarkably different policy. If we accept the traditional Chris­tian evaluation of fetal life, we should protect the fetal life by law and the policy ought to be under constant review. 
"Some say that this is not a realistic policy, that it will force women to have unwanted pregnancies. People will suf­fer, but people suffer now (by abortions). We must measure the degree of suffering," said McCormick. 
McCormick said he does not believe that the decision of abortion should be left to the individual. "Some object, as­king what I, a celibate priest, can know about carrying a full term baby. They feel the more experience they have with a sit­uation, the more they know about that situation. Very of­ten, the self involved are self­interested with one opinion. Does one really have to be a soldier in Vietnam to measure the immorality of the war?" 
There are many cultural ob­stacles in getting public policy to be a reality, according to McCormick. The obstacles in­clude: human sexuality, 
viewing abortion as a private 
matter and the influence of the 
media. 
"Until we come to grips with 
the moral factors, there is noth­
ing we can do as a nation. It is 
my conviction that that is just 
plain sad," said McCormick. 
Widely regarded as America's foremost Catholic bioethicist, McCormick en­tered the Society of Jesus in 1940. Before joining Notre Dame's faculty last fall, McCormick had been the Rose 
F. Kennedy Professor of Chris­tian Ethics at Georgetown Uni-
A past president of the Cath­olic Theological Society of America, McCormick is the au­thor of many books and a fre­quent contributor to such jour­nals as Commonweal, America and Catholic World. versity's Kennedy Center for Bioethics. For the previous sixteen years, he had been a professor of moral theology at the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago. 

By JEANNE BARTLING 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's will welcome high school juniors from nearby states in the College's annual Spring Day on Campus (SDOC) on Sunday. The Spring Day features a variety of events enabling high school students to become acqainted with Saint Mary's. 
"We sent invitations to high school juniors in seven nearby states," said Admissions Coun­selor and SDOC Coordinator Kathleen Rose. Invitations were sent to juniors in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wiscon­sin, Rose said. 
Mary Pat Nolan, associate director of admissions, said "students who visit SMC are more likely to apply. SDOC gives high school juniors and their families an opportunity to experience SMC at its best. .. it gives them a taste of what life is like as a student here." 
The schedule of events for guests and their families in­clude campus tours and a con­tinental breakfast with Saint Mary's students acting as hos­tesses throughout the day. The activities are meant to allow the high school juniors "to meet and mingle with fellow students interested in SMC," Rose said. 
One of the events scheduled for the visiting students is a for­mal welcome from Mary Ann Rowan, director of Admis­sions. Dorothy Feigl, acting vice-president and dean is scheduled to give an admission workshop in which she will ex­plain the procedure necessary for admission to the College. 
SDOC also features a panel discussion for guests and their parents. Students and parents will have the opportunity to ad­dress questions to current stu­dents. 
Lunch in the Dining Hall will be followed by an Administra­torAi'aculty Fair. Student Af­fairs, Student Government, other college organizations and each of the college's depart­ments will be represented. 


Ball 

continuedfrom page 1 
thing, we can't give enough. We 
could have the ball every week 
and it wouldn't be enough." 
Harrison said they are 
hoping for a big turnout. So far, 
175 tickets have been sold and 
"ticket and T -shirt sales are 
picking up," said Harrison. 
Tickets can be purchased in 
both dining halls, from dorm 
Charity Ball representatives 
and from Harrison, who can be 
reached at 283-3476 or at 144 
Morrissey. Tickets for the ball 
will also be sold at the door. 
Tickets are $10 per couple 
and $8 for a single person. In­cluded in the price are refresh­ments, dancing and fun, said Harrison. 
The Law, a popular campus band, and the "internationally renowned" Pat Hyden Jazz Quartet will provide entertain­ment. Attire is semi-formal. 

Harrison said he is "excited and enthusiastic and elated" about the ball. "It's going to be fantastic," he said, "go to the ball to have a ball." 
The dance will be held at the South Dining Hall from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. A VIP party for faculty and staff beginning at 8 p.m. will precede the ball. 
ND;SMC 3d Annual Charity Ball 
South Dining Hall 
9:00pm-2:00am 
Featuring: The Law 
and the internationally renowned 
Pat Hyden Jazz Quartet 
Tickets: $1tvcouple $8/single Attire: Semi-formal I Formal Refreshments Served 



r--------------------­
----~ 

The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 7 

The ObserverMichael Moran

Ready, set 
Three competitors watch their Pinewood derby cars as they head toward the finish line. The Pinewood derby held on Thursday was just one of the many activities occurring this week as part of the Engineering Week. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 


Hy Dear Colleagues and Students, 


Murder suspect attempts suicide 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A man charged with murder after police found half-naked women chained in his basement and body parts in his freezer tried to hang himself in jail Thursday, but was not seriously injured, authorities said. 
Gary Heidnik has been held without bail at the Philadelphia Detention Center since being arrested last week and charged with two counts of murder and multiple counts of rape and kid­napping. 

David Owens, superinten­dant of the Philadelphia pris­ons, said Heidnik used his T­shirt to suspend himself from the shower pipe. 
A corrections officer dis­covered Heidnik, who was being kept in isolation in the adult services wing of the cen­ter and was alone in the shower room at the time of the at­tempt, Owens said. 
An officer assigned to watch Heidnik was outside the room but lost sight of him in the steam from the shower, Owens said. 
Heidnik was taken to the Guiffre Medical Center, where Dr. James Giuffre said the pris­oner had an abrasion around his neck, but was not seriously injured. 
Hospital spokesman Frank Craven said Heidnik was brought to the hospital about 
10:30 p.m. "with what looks like an apparent suicide at­tempt." 



S. African priest discusses freedom 
By MARTIN RODGERS 
Staff Reporter 
Father Malusi Mpumlwana spoke Thursday night at the Center for Social Concerns as part of the African Studies Pro­gram and the International Peace Lecture Series. 
Mpumlwana asked his audi­ence to reflect on the historical evolution of the present move­ment in South Africa which will eventually "bring the downfall of the most inequitous system since Nazi Germany." 
In his lecture, titled "South Africa : The Struggle for Liberation," he broke down South Africa's history in this 

April 2, 1987 
1 would like to share with you a letter that I recently received from a Notre Dame Junior -Danny Harrison. I want to share this letter because it really concerns us all: 
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.s.c. President Adminstration Building University of Notre Dame 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 
I am writing on behalf of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball, which will be held in the South Dining Hall on the Notre Dame campus (Saturday, April 4, 1987 from 9:00p.m. until 2:00 a.m.). Please consider the information enclosed on the Catholic Charity Relief Service (CRS), which has been designated as this year's benefactor of the event. CRS has been selected after careful scrutiny of the many relief organizations available, because it has proven to be a direct and reliable source for the dissemination of funds. 
We of the Charity Ball understand that money is crucial in the elimation of world hunger, but for such philanthropic endeavors as ours to remain effective, they must also promote a greater sense of awareness among the people. We of the Charity Ball truly wish to leave an indelible impression on everyone's consciousness. How many times does one throw out the "garbage mail" depicting scenes of hungry and homeless in some nameless third world country? How many times does one cry, "How can I tell if my contribution is being sent to the right places?" And, unfortunately, many misgivings about such charitable organizations are often true. This is why we wish to stress that not only are we a source of aid, but also that the Charity Ball will be a source of education and awareness to all those touched by its presence. 
Perhaps we shall raise $20,000, or perhaps we will only raise $10,000. A large sum,means very little if one is not conscious that the aid must not stop at this point. Instead, we must continually wage battle against the evils of world hunger. We can only hope that perhaps the Charity Ball is the reason for someone to donate a large sum of money, or for a college graduate to join the Peace Corps. There is so much we wish to foster, but we cannot do it alone. We know that our success --both monetary and enlightening --rests in the hands of the community. Only through the help and support of thnse dedicated to the ideals which we profess can the Charity Ball be a success. Please help us as much as you can, for you, not 
us, are the Charity Ball. 
The Charity Ball 1987 promises to be an extravaganza in response -not a mere material extravaganza, but a responsive extravaganza of people joined together in human concern. I ask your support as our campus leader who has ~stablished himself as a champion against injustice and suffering everywhere. 

';fi:7~~~
Danny L. Harrison, Chairman/Founder 144 Morrissey Hall Campus 
1 know many of you also received this letter. The famine in Ethiopia represents 
an immediate need. I believe that we are challenged to act, to give assistance 
to our brothers and sisters in Ethiopia. 
Our Holy Father, John Paul II, Catholic Bishops and Religious and Civil Leaders 
around the world have called good people everywhere to generously respond to the 
plight of the people of Ethiopia. I encourage all to attend this union of 
family support at the 1987 Charity Ball. 
God Bless, 

century into three historical pe­riods: the stage of incredulity 0940-1948), the stage of prepa­ration (1944-1983) and the stage of "concerted action" (1983­1986). The latter stage was the ultimate focus of the lecture. 
Mpumlwana, a graduate stu­dent at the University of Capetown, said the concerted action phase was one where various liberation groups have begun to "pool together." Those who seek freedom and justice have "begun to find each other." 
"This concerted action offers new opportunities which I believe will eventually lead to the next stage, that of the gov­ernment's retreat," said Mpumlwana, who is at Notre Dame continuing his theologi­cal studies. 
"But this is just beginning and the government still has massive resources." 
Mpumlwana said concerted action must bring together South Africa's liberation effort and coordinate with interna­tional action and with the Church or religion. 
Mpumlwana said the United States has developed a bad image in his country, an image based on "Dallas," "Miami Vice" and Ronald Reagan. But despite this image, Mpumlwana said he has been impressed with the people of the United States and their ef­forts. He said he was heartened by the volume of consciousness of the American people but that there is a need for them to net­work. 
He suggested the University continue and augment pro­grams and organizations such as the Center for Social Con­cerns, the Anti-apartheid net­work and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 




BLIND IVER 
Live at DUKE'S Bistro 


---~----~----------­


"ie~~_O_i_n__t_______________Frid~ay,A~pril~3,198~7-pa~ges 
I P.O.BoxQ 
Equality in work place needs adequate time 
Dear Editor: 
Given the recent Supreme Court ruling on affirmative action for women, I would like to give a few opinions con­cerning women and pay disparity. First, before being attacked as chauvinistic, I would like to point out that all rational people, myself in­cluded, support equal pay for equal work. To deny the same pay for equal work would be ludicrous. 
Unfortunately, women may be dis­criminated against due to forced ab­sences. They may get pregnant. Even if a pregnancy is not planned initially, what if a woman changes her mind? Companies are wary of promoting wo­men to positions which they may be forced to leave. Can you blame them? If only for a short time, these 'vaca­tions' can be costly to a business. This is a fact of life. 
What can be done? There are no easy answers. Promoting women for the sake of promoting women, or any minority for that matter, can lead to further friction between groups in the work force. What about being promoted 

Open discussion should include non-dissenters 
Dear Editor: 
While I did not have the opportunity 

to listen to Father McCormick in his 
lecture concerning abortion, I did have 
the opportunity to read an article of his 
in the November 8 issue of America in 
which he argues for the necessity of 
dissent (and abortion in this domain). 
His firm conviction about the Cat­
holicity of dissent needs to be ad­
dressed. 
Fr. McCormick is, of course, a Cath­olic who, among other things, recog­nizes the supreme authority of the Pope above all others in doctrinal affairs. "Theologians cannot speak for the whole Church. Only the Pope and the bishops with the Pope can do that." A transgression against this notion is clearly not Catholic. 
Where, then, does the role of the theo­logian fit in? Does he have no "freedom" of thought, of inquiry? Of course he has freedom. Vatican II stated plainly that "faithful persons 
Doonesbury 
on merit, qualifications and perfor­mance? Disparities in the past can not be made up over night. Short term so­lutions are not the answer to a problem· that will require long term results. I am not saying that all programs di­rected toward rights for minorities should be disbanded, but advancement should be based on merit. Programs should be directed at people helping themselves. Progress at another's ex­pense can lead only to resentment in the long run and further hostility be­tween minorities and the 'majority'. 
Also, one must be wary in interpret­ing statistics concerning pay between men and women. Comparisons must be made with care. For example, match­ing a male factory worker to a secre­tary is useless. Women have tradition­ally held the majority of lower paying secretarial and clerical jobs which have lower wages. It has only been in recent history that it has been common for women to go to college and then enter the work force in professional posistions. It will take some time for these women to fight their way up the corporate ladder. I wish them all the luck. 
Douglas J. Sibila J>illon Hall 
(posess the) lawful freedom of inquiry and of thought, and the freedom to ex­press their minds humbly and courageously about those matters in which they enjoy competence." Dissent then, as Fr. McCormick is so deter­mined to tell us, is Catholic. 
The question then arises: Why was Father Curran stripped of his teaching authority along with Father Hun­thausen who had some of his pastoral powers removed? Are the Pope and Cardinal Ratzinger contradicting what Vatican II plainly stated? This is, of ­course, the complaint McCormick and others of his "liberal" group are level­ing at the Vatican and other "conserva­tives." 
The problem, of course, lies in how these two different camps interpret Vatican Il's definition of "dissent." The "freedom to express (one's) mind humbly and courageously" both camps must agree upon. But let us examine more closely what Curran and Hun­th~msen have done. Yes, they exercised their right to "dissent" insofar as Vatican II defined it (both were quite courageous), but it seems they took one additional step that is indisputably not Catholic. Curran, Hunthausen and their supporters on this issue refuse to see that teaching unapproved ideas (Curran) or conducting one's pastoral duties which are in direct conflict with Vatican authority (Hunthausen) do not constitute "dissent" as Vatican II so clearly defined it. This is not the "humble expression" of views not nec­essarily in agreement with Rome, it is the execution of them. Execution (of whatever sort) of any unapproved doctrine, be it through dissemination in a class room or pastoral powers, clearly necessitates discipline. The liberals' all-too-often-heard gross misinterpretation of ''The spirit of Vatican II" is bogus. A boy can "freely inquire" whether it is right for him to set the table; his not setting the table, however, when his mother clearly dic­tate that he do so, is flagrant dis­obedience. 


With this in mind, let us consider McCormick's abortion discussion. I am not prepared to debate whether his dis­cussion is a humble and courageous ex­pression of his views or an execution of his views. It's probably the former. Nevertheless, let us keep in mind that 



Garry Trudeau 

only the "Pope and the bishops with the Pope can speak for the whole Church"­theologians cannot. Fine. Let us have more of these "open view" discussion. 
Let us have talks on abortion; let us invite more Maguires, some Currans; bring in more of these liberals who al­ways get in the New York Times. In doing so, however, let us recognize two things. First, the serious danger we pose for the young minds here who might get the impression that dissent is at the center of Catholic theology. Second, while what these theologians have to say is interesting, we can rest assured that their dissenting views are not Catholic because the Pope and Ratzinger have listened to their ideas again and again and have rejected them. 
Finally, I have an idea. Let us ar­range to hear a theologian who will not present dissenting views (strange as that might be). While we're at it, why not go for it all and ask Ratzinger? True, he may not be the type of enter­tainer Maguire is, but who knows -he may even prove to be interesting. 
David Woods Holy Cross Hall 

Quote of the day 
"Rather than being less finicky about who is married, we pro­bably should be more finicky about who is baptized and who is ordained." 
Rev. James T. Burtchae/1 "For Better, For Worse... 1985 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column presant the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor·in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor................................................ Jim Alley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ..........................Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Edltor .......................... Marilyn Benchlk Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
Founded November3, 1988 
.. 
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 9 
T'he ot..wr Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a_m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday_ T'he ~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts claaalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfledsls 3 p.m. All claaslfleds muat be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per fl,.
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
PRO-TYPE Quality wort<, word proceaalng aval18blllty, re..onable $. 277-5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Wordproceaalng 277-8131 
Wordprocesaing-Typing 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082 

UNIVERSITY RESUME Prole..lonal Reaume• Student Ralae Neer tha Mall 272-8336 
IN-HOME TYPING Term Papers Reaumes locetad near campus CALL 289·7570 
PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT PAT MAHER FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESI­DENT VOTE FRIDAYIIII 
FREE Trial Size O'Henry candy Bars and Sweepstakes lor b1g w1nn1ngs Stop 1n the Westpoint Am. In the LaFortune Center, Aprll2-3 
Here comes A1r Doman and Team 376... Look Outl 
CHARITY BALL 1967 IS HERE 
APRIL 4,1987 
9pm·2am South Dining Hall 
Featurlng:The LAW and the Internation­
ally renowned Pat Hyden JAZZ. Quartet 
and Shenanigans 
Mire:Seml-lormalf'ormal Refreshments 
Served. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: One pearl earnng somewhere in or between Lyons and LaFortune the first week of March. II you found it could you please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. Thanks. 
Lost ·Maroon. Nat1onal Gallery POSTER TUBE wtth Lllrlllo print lna1de. LeH be· tween Grace and the East Gate Security houae on the Friday before break. Great aentlmental value. Call Ann 2595 
HELPI I LOST MY BOOKBAG IN THE BOOKSTORE. I REALLY NEED THE GLASSES THAT WERE IN THERE. CALL ERIC REINKOBER £3528. 
LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219 OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY BRIENZA, 109 WALSH, 283-2899. 
Loa!: A blue Totes umbrella on :ns at the post office at approximately 10:45 
a.m. II found, please call Tim at x4073. 
LOST:LEVI'S JEAN JACKET, INSIDE LABEL 'JOHNS. TULLY", VERY WORN IN AND FADED. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW FRIDAY NIGHT MAYBE? THIS WAS GIVEN TO ME BY MY BEST FRIEND, SO PLEASE CALL KATY £1319 IF FOUND.THANKS. 
LOST: LEVIS JEANS JACKET My Levla jeana jacket disappeared from 2nd floor Lewis during a party on Set. night. In the last two years I've worn that jacket to 10 countries end washed H just three limes. The accumulated dirt on it has a great deal of aentlmental value. A 18undry tag sewn on the lnalde beck of the jacket reads P.E. Oeechger. A con­tact lena caae and eyedropa were In one or the chest pockets. H found PLEASE call Paul at 2287. No queatlona askad. 
were you at Campus View Friday? Did you have a lew too many beers? D ld you eccldentally acquire my 35mm Canon Snappy camera ? (The one wtth my aprlng break picturea and my friend's birthday) Everyone makes mistakes, you're forgiven, but please retum my camera -at least my 111m · pieasel 283­«28 Of Holy Croaa desk SMC 
Loaf one gray daJiy planner wt> ~ my life 18 unplanned and chaotic loe1 hsometime Friday. Please caH Dan at 1721. 
................................................................ 
Loaf one BA-ll Texas lnetrmnta Calcula­tor guide book approx. one month ago. II found call Dan at 1721. 
................................................................ 
LOST: PAIR OF GRAY WOOL GLOVES IN LIBRARY 111111 II found, p1eaM ceN 3151 
FOUND: PAIR OF GIRL'SWOMEN'S GLASSES THEY ARE PINK CALL 3651 IF YOU LOST THEM THEY WERE FOUNO ON THE QUAO ABOUT 3 WEEKS AGO 
FOUND: BROWN PLASTIC RIMMED GLASSES ON WEDNESDAY, 41'1 AROUND 3:00 BY MORRISEY & LYONS. TURNED IN TO LAFORTUNE LOST & FOUND. 
Thirty dollars caeh, a bottle of Obsession perfume, a bottle of Perry Ellis perfume, a canon camera, and make-up "LOST" from a 0402Cempus View apartment Friday night. Now, we are just a little Irritated that we give you a place to party and then you rip us ott. You know who you are and you know where these things belong. We know you can sneak our things back because you've already snuck them out. If we 8118 our posses­sions again there will be no questions asked and maybe we will think It Is safe to have another party. 
Lost setof keys on Stepan Basketball Courts, Tuesday afternoon. Dorm Key marked "827." Please call Brian al1179 If found. 
LOST: Gray and Blue Nlke jacket on Lyons Basketball Courts sometime be­tween Saturday morning and Sunday. If found, please contact Eric at 1695. Reward offered. 
FOUND: Set ol keys on car-dealer type key ring. Found Saturday on the Lyons Courts. Call Eric at 1695 to claim. 
FOUND One gold bracelet at the Soph­omore Cottllllon. To claim, call the Soph­omore class olflca at 239-5225 or Theresa at 4027. 
FOUND: 14K GOLD NECKLACE IN PRACTICE ROOM AT CROWLEY. CALL 3896 
KEYS AND KEY CHAIN LOST SATUR­DAY NIGHT (:Y.l()o87) ON REX STREET. ND AVENUE, OR AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 264-4249111 PLEASE HELPIII I ESPECIALLY NEED THE KEYSIII 
~ffiR_R_EN_T~~ 
6 bedroom 4-6 students $40(}500 & utilities. Security system 234 6688 
SUM STOR:all belonlngs(lncl lur)saf&llecure Bill M.2327416 
SHARE LARGE HOUSE WITH ND GRAD THIS SUMMER. $112 MO. ¢ UTIL. 289·8792, PAUL. 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 883­8869 
WANTED 
TYPISTS -$500 weekly at hornet Write: 
P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANOWATEA SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 381-4224 
ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physlclanopsychologlat) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We can provide lots of love, opportunities, and a warm welcome from family and friends. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call EIII&'Aian collect (212)-724-7942. 
WORK FOR ME LIVE FOR FREE THIS SUMMER. 883-8889 
GOING TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER 
BREAK? 
We need a ride lherel H you can take 
two riders, please call Mary at 283-3726. 
We'll ohare all usual expenses. 
HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Realdentlal Camp In Southwestem Michigan needs Program Directors, Instructors, UnH Leaders, Counselors, Cooke and KHchen Aides. Call or write lor Information and applications. Camp Rosenthal, 3384 Clawson Rd., Dowagiac, Ml 49047 (616)424-5272. Call weekdays between 
Help Guy from Dixie neads rlda to Mln­neapoUa area for Easter Call3893 Ask for FRAY 
I, Bartly F. Reilly, do officially acknowl­edge that I was the dog of ROGUE trip to Fort Walton Baach. I would like to thank the Academy and urea formal­dehyde for thlo dubious distinction. 
TO 5 HOT DOGS AND ASSORTED CONDIMENTS, GOOD LUCK ON SUN­DAYIII 
CONGRATS CHRIS and JENNIEIII You two make the most perfect couple and I wtah you the beat of luck together. Have fun In Jamaica on your honeymoon I How 'bout sending a poetcard?l? hee,hee. Love, Susan 
CUTI! EASTER BUNNYI PERFECT EASTER GIFT, trained, whHe with apota and lloppy ears, shall and padlg-. 
Orangeglrl and M.S.(not the dlaeaae), So how doee Einstein punch WOlle on rust(blke rack and chaln)? Let'a go for a walld Cluelol Woo wool WHI you be up­HI, nay, offended, by thla ad? If you go on a walk, alow eome extra time, you're canylng extra weight. 
SHORTS AND SHADES 
-Hey Hobbes, do you know what Saturday Is? -What, Calvin? -It's Howard's Shorts and Shades partyll -Shorta and Shadeal?l? -Yeah I It's where you go wearing a pair of shorts and sunglasses even though It seems like winter still, and dance till you drop I-You mean they have a live band and other FUN sluff, Calvin? -Yeah, and this year's Is going to be the best everllll 
WHO PUT THE WESSON OIL ON "THE PATIO FURNITURE?" 
DAN COUGHLIN MAY WEAR BLUE UN­DERWEAR, BUT JOE MAZZ.ONE DOESN'T WEAR ANYI SHOOTII I GUESS IrS SO HE CAN SCOREII 
Pat Coatello you're so clever too bad no one upa your lever You're always found 2nd floor brar cause they say the action's there Seen walking back companlonless cause of your lack of manliness only If you have dreams soused wtll you ever be arousad. the SMC Party ''Trampe". 
TRENT --We triad to call you Wad. night but no one answered. Now you know why we always call your friend. We want ad to know If you 'II go to the Com­mons with us Sat. night. Thanks lor In­troducing us to 2 new friends--now we have 6 friends. The Dart Throwers 
8:30 a.m.& 3:00 p.m. 
CHICAGO-BOUND GRADSIII Female Roommate neaded. 2 Br11 bath. Lincoln Park apt. June tst. For more info: call Pam (312)348-6688,SMC '86 


~~__FO_R_S_A_LE~ 
Roundtrip ticket to Mobile for Easter, leave Fri. 41'17, return Mon. 4<20. Hlnter­estad call 289-3161 . 
Ad Trp PLANE TIX S.BEND-DC 41'15­4<20 CALL MARY x3781 
By owner -beautiful 2-story, 3-bdrm. home wtth den, 2 frplcs on E. Angela across from ND golf course. Write: CFI, 
P.O. Box 461, Notre Dame, IN 46558 for more Into. Please include telephone number. 
MACINTOSH and printer for sale. Call Erin 272-2357 
Doctoral academic gown,lradltlonal, for madium build, with mortar board (size 7 Soli). Best offer. Call 239-7836 during working hours. 
TICKETS 
WANTED! 
4 tlx for Nell Diamond concert 
on Aprll29 
Desperate parents will payl Call Tony 
x1483 
WANTED! 1 GRADUATION TICKET DESPERATE! Call Tony 11483 
NEIL DIAMOMD TIX YOU WANT 'EM, I GOT 'EM FLOOR & LOWER ARENA CALL NEIL AT 283-3022 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A-M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or ..... a car. 23&-2200. Financ­Ing 11Yall8ble for all US eta1H. 
LARGEST selection of Cllft,Monarch Notes In Mlchlanal Bu)j&III-Hextbooks $$$. PANOORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
Are you going lo be here for SUMMER SCHOOLT!T 
H80, The Obearver need& your help In producing some summer Issues of the newapaper. The jobs are variad and, If you are lnter­eeted In newapaper training In your spare time, call The Observer olfloea and aak tor Mart< Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
The Obeerver 
and Special Ofympk:a NEEDS YOUIII 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY MARC GLANZI!RO HAVE A BLAST, BLIT MAKE SURE YOU FINIISH PARTYING BEFORE YOU TURN 2211 
Love ya, l.Jiai,Uaall, and Maria 
WANTED: Aide on April 1 0 to Dead Show In Chicago. Russ · 4666 
I need a ride to I.U. at Bloomington for the weekend of April 1Oth. Glad to help with expenses. Please call Mike at x4644 
Brian McHugh is going to get reamed at 
the Lacross Freshman Initiation Party. 
Come and listen to him Yak I Yakl Yak! 
.............................................. 
....BRUCE CECIL­
HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY. THANKS 
FOR ALL YOU DID ON THE RETREAT. 
LOVE, MARIA 
To my paenie roomies, Blake and Dan: Hey I I'm back again to tell the whole world about the secrets about you two I Serious­ly, thanks for all the help. Don't think I could have gotten through with any two better friends. I'll never forget it. 
Jon 
HOT ICE Is coming ... SEE ITII 
361 DAYS TO CIRCUS LUNCH Ill 
"Time to die, Mr. Bond" --Archenemy Mister Roto, from his evil fortress, The Drain. 
PSYCHODELIC A BEAUX ARTS BALL COMING FRIDAY APRIL 10 PSYC­HODELIC 
NAZZ COMPETITION 
NAZZ. COMPETITION THIS FRIDAY I I I 7 P.M. STEPAN CENTER SPON. BY SAB NAZZ. COMPE­
TITION NAZZ COMPETITION 
A IS E A IS E 
RISE! II 
THEODORE'S 
9:00-1:00 A.M. 
Illinois' answer to U-2.... 
sponsored by SAB 
NazzNazzNazzNazzNazz 
compalltlon competition compatHion competition 
PAT MAHER PERRY JIMINEZ CHIP BACCIOCCO JOE JANSEN VOTE FRIDAY FOR FINANCE CLUB OFFI­CERSIIIII 
FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS. Do you want effective leadership, cheaper activ­Ities, and wilder parties?? Then please vote for the ticket MAHER-JIMINEZ­BACCIOCCO-JANSEN on Fridayll 
U.M.O.C. 
U.M.O.C. 
U.M.O.C. 
U.M.O.C. 
U.M.O.C. 
U.M.O.C. IS COMING ... 
DESPERATELY SEEKING a ride to IU -Bloomington this weekend, APR 3-A5. PLEASE CALL Nikki at 3785 If you are going. 
Matt B. Steve P. S O'B SCHNAUSSIII 
Down wHh Circus Lunchl MOO MAMAS from HELL UNITE for CHOCOLATE LUNCHII 
Nead ride to Indiana UnlveraHy ­Bloomington weekend of Apr. 10. Call Miriam at 2887. 
Zygoteal Have a WIDE 20th, see you at the Commons! Lova, Your fellow Zygotes 
The Charade Continues -Saturday Night Everybody liMp Wang Chunglng. Get your tongue out of my mouth ... It must be Beth. Yea, H exlsta -el read H In third grade. This Ia auch a Jenn thing. Nice bikini, Slfa. 
Four days, JT.· 
1987 CILA RETAEATIII April 10-12 at Moreau Seminary Deadline Mon. April 8 Info? Krls £1384Margy £1315 
Eaater Baakets are abundant at the COUNTRY HARVESTER! Lola of excit­Ing ways to ftll them. Ask ua for ldleaa. We are located In the Lafortune Building. Canl flnd ua? Queatlona? CaJI2~714 
FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA 
FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA 
FIESTA FIESTA FIESTA 
CIL.M.lexlco Project Flallta Sat., April 4 AI you can Nl 1aeo1 at the cam. for Social Concama 8:00-10:00 p.m. $3 

ORUID8-T0-BE 
Spring Is coming! This weekend's lull moon ceremony will take place this Sat­urday, weather permitting. Meet on 2nd floor LaFortune at 6:30 pm. Bring while sheets (ND Is fine) -you'll get them back undamagad. Bring friends If they want to join. Call the Archdruld at 4074 If you have any questions. 
Stonehenge . 
LAURA YOU ARE THE STAR OF BEAV'S NITES. THANKS FOR EVERYTHING-CAN'T WAIT FOR THE WEEKEND. ALF DESERVES ENDLESS S-NOVAS AND SALLITES -ZAID 
TRIMMER-ONLY 27 DAYS LEFTIII 
SANDY CERIMELE -Here'e the personal you requested. Never let it be said that we cannot take a hint. -The boys In 131 (pius one In 413). 
Dey 1 for Greg Kerr. I'm beck from New York to torment you. 44 more days to go. Muhh he he ha ha ha ... 
ND11MC 3rd ANNUAL CHARITY BALL 
9:00pm-2:00am South Dining Hall 
Aprll4, 1987 
Featuring: THE LAW and the Internation­
ally renowned Pat Hyden Jazz Quartet 
$1 Gtouple and $~Ingle 
Attlre:Semi-Formalf'ormal Refresh­
ments served. 

ND11MC 3rd ANNUAL CHARITY BALL 
9:00pm-2:00am South Dining Hall 
Aprll4, 1987 Featurlng:THE LAW and the internationally renowad Pat Hyden Jazz Quartet 
$1 Gtouple and $~Ingle 
Attlre:Semi-Formalf'ormat 
Refreshments served 
John-The mice will play 
because John runs away 
We didn't know rats 
were afraid of mica 
The Hot Babes 
BEAUX ARTSIIIII BEAUX ARTSIIIII BEAUX AATSIIIII BEAUX AATSIIIII % '($% &&%$%££? paychOdellc $ %& %'& "$(£? BEAUX ARTSIIIII 
HEY AACHAEL 

SO WHEN ARE YOU PICKING ME UP? 
BOY YOU REALLY KNOW HOW TO 
DRIVE A GUY CRAZYI 
LOVE THE GUY WITH A PAIN IN HIS 
NECK 
(ALIAS ROB) 
SOPHSISOPHSISOPHSI 
It's time to ... BEACON BOWL BEACON BOWL BEACON BOWL 
• Wed, AprilS 9:00p.m. $1 per game 
Nead Transpo?l Bus available -$2 Slgnupa at Soph Office 2nd floor Lafortune 
Mon & Tues 2-5 

SOPHSI SOPHSI SOPHSI 
Your ctasa needs you for next year's JUNIOR COUNCIL Positions available: dorm reps, social, liturgical, community service, publicity & Jr. Dogbook commlasloners. Appilca­tiona available -Soph office 2nd floor Lafortune GET INVOLVEDIII 
GERRY SCIMECAIII HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY! LUV, THE LEWIS "CORE" 
YOU DREW A BYE Thenka lor one heck of a game, and thank& for the flowers. You all went way beyond the call of duty. Good luck In the rest of the tournament. 
love, TOO SHORT TO SHOOT 
(ALIAS. THE DAOWED RATS) 
SSENIORFORMALSENIORFORMA­LSENIOAFORMAL SENIORFORMAL­SENIORFOAMALSENIOR FORMAL­SENIORFORMAL'..TSHIRTS TSHIRTS TSHIRTS TSHIRTS TSHIATS"""GET YOUR SENIOR FORMAL TSHIRT8-A TIME TO REMEMBER-WHILE THEY LASTICALL JIM1492 
ATTENTION ANDREW SOUDERIII Donl count on "ln-tha-mood" brldea­rnalda thla weekendlll -a Farley brldea­mald 
Sean Malone wtU aponaer the flret annual George Pepparllque at 823 ND Ave. to r..ae money lor the new George Peppard Student Canter on April 3 and 4. 
Happy Birthday RobI Sony this Is 80 lata. Thanx for remembering ua all the time. Love, "'four St. Maly's glr1a:" Landry, Mary, Carrie, Molly, Ann, Moira, Natalie, Eileen, Ew (In London), Pall/, Lorle, Katie, Margaret, Merola, Angle, Maureen, Ellen, & all your other women. Sony we mlsaed your b'day night -see ya' at the bars! 
What do you MEAN you don't know what a Morey Amsterdam Sandwich ls?l Free Pickup and Delivery 
HI ANNI 

OH, NO, NO Jackie, don't go working lor Lou. 
HAPPY 20th to our Zahm buddies: RON MATT PETE Don't get TOO WIDE to AALL VIII 
Love, S,K,P,B,S,G,C 
................................................................ 
HAPPY B-DAY SHAWN & JAYII With love, "Chuck's date• from Farley 
SHOATS AND SHADES THE FINAL BASH SAT APRIL 4 

................................................................ 
KIM, 
I'M THE SECURITY GUARD WHO WAS SO RUDE TO YOU. CAN I MAKE IT UP TO YOU? HOW ABOUT DINNER? I'LL CALL YOUI 
NOOMC CHARITY BALL SATURDAY APRIL 4,1987 9PM-2AM SOUTH DINING HALL With Notre Dame's The LAW The LAW The LAW And Chicago's Famoua: The PAT HYDEN JAZZ. QUARTET PAT HYDEN JAZZ. QUARTET AND SHENANIGANS Attlre:Semi-Formalf'ormal Refreshments Served $10COUPLE $&SINGLE 

CHARITY BALL 1967 CHARITY BALL 1987 HAVE A BALL HAVE A BALL THIS SATURDAY-APRIL 4,1987 9pm-2am South Dining HALL WITH The LAW AND Chicago's PAT HYDEN QUARTET BUY TICKETS FROM DORM REPS 
................................................................ 
0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER­CESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE AND FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART I HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSIS­TANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT AND URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN ANO TO CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY THREE "OUR FA­THER"S, THREE "HAIL MAAY"S, AND THREE "GLOAIAS"S. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN, ST. JUDE. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. I HAVE HAD MY REQUEST GRANTED. 
NOTRE DAME 1ST. MARY'S CHARITY BALL APRIL 4, 1987 In the SOLITH DINING HALL 9PM-2AM FEATURING GREAT ENTER­TAINMENT: The LAW and the lntemationally renownad PAT HYDEN JAZZ QUARTET••••••• .. 
$10COUPLE $&SINGLE All/ra: Semi-Formalf'ormal Refreshments Served"' •••••• ALL ARE INVITEDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
IT'S MODI trs HIPI IT'S NEWt IT'S NEXT WEEKI H'a BEAUX ARTS IIIII Get paych()detlcllll 

"Voulez-W>Us couchez avec mol, ce .olr?" Amy wae your reply "Mala non/" or "malnf8nant, Malntenantl" P.S. -our special thank& to the Frenchman In the Cornell aweallhlrt for helping us dls­cvover her reply. 
................................................................ 
HI Mrs. Stanton. Welcome to lovely South BendI I hope you have a wonderful weekend wtlh your wonderful daughter By the way, do we get sausage caaaarole for brunch? 
Love, George 

CAPP MAJORS REMEMBER CAPPA>PMA MEETING IS THIS TUES, APRIL 7 AT 8:45 PM IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE THE SPEAKER IS WENDY A. CAIN OF COOPERS AND L YBAAND ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE INVITED 
DRUIDS 
CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL TOMORROW CHARITY &AU CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL 


--------------~------­
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 10 
Hagler confident of fight victory 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Marvelous 
Marvin Hagler is aware of 
Sugar Ray Leonard's 
popularity, but he also is secure 
in his talent and in his place in 
boxing. 
"Just because he won a gold medal and became America's sweetheart, doesn't mean I'm a bum," said the middleweight champion, who will fight Leonard in a scheduled 12­round bout Monday night at Caesars Palace. 
Leonard is coming out of re­tirement for the challenge, and a lot of boxing people think the challenge is too late. 
Leonard, who won a gold medal in the Olympics almost 12 years ago, has had just two fights in almost 62 months. His last fight was a ninth-round 
Gooden: When did the drugs start? 
u;m 
.... 
JANUARY· , · 
::~::~~ 
OCTOH[R ~ 
NGVfMB(H11·· 





~~~;,':~.·~;~;::~/~·~:·.~=~·:'<···· 
f"EOfU}ARV 19. / r:-., ;·" .~:1 :;:,· P(.!'C=.. //.~. ·"·' MAHCH S; : / I: ! ~~>f:.n.,.:;: ;' .\:., ., 
APfiH.! • 
c:Jj).'.~,~/" •· . 
eyes and off his chin. Temper­ature at game time in Fenway Park was 64 degrees and drop­ping rapidly after a rain­shower. 
Gooden had dark circles un­der his eyes; his face looked drawn. He pulled at his hat, pulled at his pants, pulled at his Mets jersey. He wiped his forehead with his long sleeves. He blew on his pitching hand as if it were cold. 
That Gooden was laboring was obvious. He lasted four in­nings, giving up three runs and nine hits as the Mets lost 4-2 in 
his second World Series failure. 
Was it nerves, or cocaine? could the Mets, or should the Mets, have suspected that Gooden had a cocaine prob­lem? 
"Excessive sweating is a symptom of drug use, but somebody pitching under pres­sure? It's hard to say," said Dr. Stanley Yancovitz, medical director of the Stuyvesant Square chemical dependancy program at Beth Israel Medi­cal Center in New York. 
"But if you put the pattern together, it's very suspicious that he's had a lot of problems for quite a while." 
On Wednesday, the Mets pitcher checked himself into the Smithers Alcoholism and Treatment Center in New York for treatment of cocaine use. 
··. ~ · . 

·· ., ·-.;·:· -·~t·~-~ .w;.;l•· wt '. ··y--:'; <"• • ~-"""· :-. 
: ,.. ) '\. 
' ~ ' ::·::; •.. ' :,:;~.~.~·,;; ~~.: :..: 
7
;.-/.: ::·, =~ ~; :· ' '</ •.. : '·N•..·:~ S<•r.(~·<. ~=-·: .' \ ·, 
:· :··-~· '\~.. .:;~~ p.;.,,:·. •:.=·=·····'"': 
[l"41.'1\{··~·-~:·:l•t!L•yt~·W".·(\o.i-:'\Y:T'~;:;~~ ..... ~: ..~!(,::·.->·~ I ·.' .."' 1 
knockout of Kevin Howard May 11, 1984. 
"I don't believe he has any business in there with me right now," Hagler said Thursday. "He's been sitting on the other side (outside) of the ring (as a television boxing analyst) and thinking he has the tools to do it. 
"That's great. It makes me a lot of money." 
Hagler is guaranteed $12 mil­lion, and promoter Bob Arum said that Hagler, who also has a percentage deal, should get at least $15 million. Leonard is guaranteed $11 million. 
"I need a new breath of air, like something to motivate me," Hagler said of Leonard's challenge, which has been criticized in some quarters be­cause of retinal surgery on Leonard's left eye that 
-i ~~=;= -,~ 
C·/"~ 
• 
APgraphic 
sonality. But then again, I don't 
know what you look for. What 
do you look for? 
"When I was in his presence, he was always the same," Knight told the New York Post, ''and I observed him closely.'' 
Gooden's 1986 season was rife with erratic behavior that might have suggested drug use, Yancovitz said. 
Before spring training even had begun last year, Gooden 
EXPLORE THE BRAIN 

study neuroscience at IOWA 
1\.lition scholarships and stipends of $8,500 -$11,500 per year are available to support study leading to the Ph.D. in Neuroscience. Write or call for information. 
The University of Iowa Neuroscience Program 5-660A Bowen Science Bldg. Iowa City, lA 52242 (319) 335-7830 
prompted him to retired in 1982. 
"I'm not thinking about his eye," Hagler said. "He's the one that made the choice. I'm going in there to do a job. My job is to defend the world mid­dleweight championship." 
Hagler is a 2%-1 favorite for the bout at a soldout 15,300-seat outdoor stadium. It is being sanctioned as title fight by the World Boxing Council. 
The International Boxing Federation recognizes Hagler as champion, but would declare the title vacant should Leonard win. 
Leonard has said he doesn't care what titles are at stake be­cause the challenge of fighting Hagler is enough for him. 
Leonard also said he will retire again, win or lose. 
tried to hide an ankle injury. Then, he was fined for missing a spring workout. Initially, he said he was in a car accident, and that turned out to be un­true. 
In April, Gooden, his sister and his fiancee were detained by police at LaGuardia Airport after an argument with a rental-car agent. 
At the same time, Gooden's performance fell off. He was 24­4 in his Cy Young campaign of 1985, but 17-6 last year. After giving up 17 hits and eight earned runs in nine innings of two World Series losses, Gooden missed the Mets ticker tape parade. He said he over­slept. 
Last Dec. 13, he was arrested along with a nephew and three other friends after a late-night fight with Tampa police. Gooden had been pulled over in his silver Mercedes-Benz while on his way back from a basket­ball game. And, last month, Gooden's girlfriend, Carlene Pearson, pleaded guilty to pos­session of a stolen .38-caliber handgun that she had tried to carry through a metal detector at LaGuardia on Jan. 30. 
"Not waking up? that's glaring. Sweating? it could be a symptom," Yancovitz said. "The mood swings, inappropri­ate behavior, inability to tolerate the little troubles we have in everyday life . . . it's very symptomatic, very suspi­cious." 
• 
\ 

APphoto 
Ignoring a damaged retina condition suffered earlier, Sugar Ray Leonard shadow boxes in preparation for Monday's fight with Marvelous Marvin Hagler. 
=-Ihe_~Observer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
You've come a long way Baby! 
HAPPY BIRTHDA V LISA BUTLER 
..........~?.~~~..~9......( ' .. 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -It was a mild October night in Boston, the fifth game of the World Series between the Red Sox and New York Mets had barely begun and sweat dripped from Dwight Gooden's face. 
Perspiration seeped from un­der the brim of his cap, into his 
Despite rumors circulating during the 1986 season that Gooden was on drugs, his team­mates said they never would have guessed. 
"I heard the same rumors that you heard," said Ray Knight, the Mets third baseman, now with Baltimore. "But I never saw any indica­tion of any changes in his per­

------·----------·----------------------------­

DON'T EVEN 
TOUCH 







THAT DIAL! 
WVFI is back on the air 
I 
MIKE Rf:STLf: WVfl. the Voice of the Fighting mester In order to begin work reatures writer Irish (channel 64 on your AM on a $70,000 renovation proj­dial), has finally begun broad· ect. And as many disgruntled t's new! It's Improved! It's casting again. The student-run listeners soon discovered upon bigger and better than ever! radio station had shut down returning to school In January, And what's more, It's back. Yes, just before finals week last se· the station remained off the air 
for the next two months as the work continued. 
The m~or project of the renovation was a complete overhaul of what has been said to be the oldest broadcasting system In the country still In use today. Because the conven­tional method of transmitting radio signals directly Into the air requires a very expensive tower antenna as well as hard· to-get FCC licensing. the sta· tlon Instead uses the electrical wiring of the buildings on campus as antennas. That Is why the station's signal can only be received on the Notre Dame or St. Mary's campus (or In very close proximity). Re· pairs were necessary on these wires In the tunnels under the campus, as well as on the couplers In each dorm. Also, an entirely new transmitting system was set up to replace the old one In the studio. 
Who's paying for all this? Wonder of wonders, the Univer­sity finally gave ln. The Admin· lstratlon found that It was no longer able to keep dodging the bullet as It had managed to do so often In the past. "A student-run radio station Is a waste If the students can't hear It," says Station Manager Kara O'Neil. "We were (finally) able to persuade the Administration to agree with us." So the Board of Trustees approved for the station $35, 000 for three years. "We spent two of those In one," laughs O'Neil, referring to the $70,000 project. A loan from the University covered what the appropriation didn't. 

The renovations were finally completed during spring break. and on 1\tonday morning after 1 students were back. the highly­1 touted return of the wnew" WVfl 
j 1
see WVFI, p•ge 2 


The Observer-April 3, 1987 Scene-Page 2 
Fischer captures a school and a soul 

MAIT HYLAND features writer 
Edward Fischer's autoblogra­
phy "Notre Dame Remem­bered" captures the spirit of a man and of the place of which he has been a part for most of his life. He tells of people like Red Smith, Knute Rockne, John 
M. Cooney, John T. Frederick, James Withey, Paul Fenlon, and Thomas Strlch, all of whom have brought a certain richness to Notre Dame. He was a friend of Sister Madeleva. who led Saint Mary's through dynamic changes. 
His work manages to praise Notre Dame and Saint Mary's without hyped-up sen­satlonalism. His quiet and respectful tone puts Notre Dame In a new perspective. He makes the side of the unlver­slty seen by students, faculty and staff more meaningful to someone familiar with only the surface of the place. 
When asked what he is doing now, he responds, "I'm retired." This does not mean he is Inactive, however. On the contrary, he walks every mor­nlng from his home, Knute Rockne's old house on Saint VIncent Street. to the Memorial Library, and he later walks the mile and a half to Saint Mary's for lunch. In retirement he has completed nine books, seven of which were written in the Far 
East. When a book Is com­
pleted, he begins another the 
same day. With his autobiogra­
phy "Notre Dame Remem­
bered" now available, Fischer 
has already begun "Life In the 
Afternoon" which Is about good 
ways of growing old. 
Self-discipline, he claims, Is the hardest and most lmpor-
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
became reality. It was well worth the wait. 
Broadcasting from Its brand new studio on the second floor of Lafortune, WVFI can now be received loud and clear by every dorm on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. Ac­cording to disk jockey Dan Janick, "It should be the strongest. best quality AM sig­nal you can receive. That's the feedback we're getting from 
students. People are even get­tlng us on their walkmans." Gone is the annoying hum and other background noise that 
had plagued listeners for so long. 
Posters around campus 
proclaim new promotions: prize giveaways (albums, food, clothes, Huey Lewis tickets, etc.), new album reviews, campus events updates each hour, campus personalities as guest DJs, and more. The sta­
tion Is also now a subscriber of 
and contributor to the College 
Music Journal. a weekly report 
on what other college radio 
stations throughout the country 
are doing and playing --sort of 
a "college Top 40" magazine. 
But. more Importantly, what hasn't changed is the music. O'Neil assures us that "The 
r music format is still the same." 
I It's still a fairly loose format. 
l 
I but mostly 'alternative progres­slve music' as we call lt." 
tant part of writing. Even on days when he does not feel like writing, he does anyway. "Writ­lng Is harder than teaching," says Fischer. He has to dis­cipllne himself more to write. "Not writing would be even more dlfflcult for me," he says. In the classroom the discipline was external. "You are expected to be on time and be prepared; you don't want to look silly. But whether or not I show up at the typewriter each morning, no one knows and no one cares," says Fischer. 
"I do my best writing when I'm walking," he says of his lonely walks. Fischer's autobl­ography tells of a childhood spent mostly In solitude. Even in his offlce In the library base­ment. he has a quiet aura about him as he leans back In a chair with his hands wrapped around the back of his head. In youth Fischer spent more time In libraries and with older people than on the playground with peers. 
His quiet and humble per­sonallty sets the tone for his lucid account of.his years at Notre Dame and his youth. Fischer stresses that an artistic humility is essential In writing. "Learning to rewrite Is most Important. Tolstoy rewrote 'War and Peace' several times," he says. An arrogant writer would consider the flrst draft as won­derful and not work hard to make It better. 
Fischer flnds all inspiration providential. "I do what I feel; It's the Intuitive push. You can't flght it. You have to go with your feelings, " says Fischer. In his book he writes, ''Through the years I have learned that when you are supposed to do something you had better go 
Translate that into European and American bands that no one's ever heard of before: groups such as The The, Green on Red, Killing Joke, and The Damned. However, WVFI also plays more familiar groups like U2, REM, and the Talking Heads. 
Random student poll partici­pant Joe Jarosz, for one, Is glad that the station is back on the air. "WVFI is a good change of pace. It's the only place where you can hear that kind of music. I just get sick of hearing "Hlp to be Square" all the time." 
But of course, Mr. Jarosz Is not the only one who's happy. Student response In general has been extremely good. Says O'Neil, "Requests are up In­credibly. DJs sometimes don't get a chance to play their own music; they get so many re­quests. Now people are re­questing songs within our for­mat -· moreso than before -· so that's all very good." (That re­quest line once again Is 2:59­6400 -· and remember to dial 9 flrstl) 
Although WVFI plays, as O'Neil said, mostly progressive, 'college' music, there Is a little something for everyone. There are three oldies shows (either Supremes and Chuck Berry-type music or the Doors and Jiml Hendrix. depending on the DJ), from J-5 p.m. Mondays and Tuesdays, and 9-11 a.m. Saturdays. Heavy metal fans will er1ioy tuning In every Sun­day night from 9-11, and for the hard-core punk enthusiasts, 
ahead and do it; If you don't. everything goes haywire." 
For flfty years he has been working on the basics. "Benny Goodman still practiced the scales everyday, because he said 'If I dldn1 I'd only be good.' " Fischer also remem­bers famous Notre Dame char­acters who stressed the lmpor­tance of the basics: "Red Smith still read Strunk and White's 'Elements of Style' once each year. Knute Rockne always began the flrst practice of the season with a review of the fundamentals. Holding up the ball he said 'This Is a football.' Joe Savoldi said, 'Slow down coach, you're going too fast.' " 
Fischer's autobiography em­phaslzes the Importance the fundamentals Involved In clear and concise writing. The pro­fessor taught these basics In :561 O'Shaugnessy until his retirement In 1976. He also taught classes In fllm and design. He Is responsible for Initiating fllm studies. "I lntro­duced fllm studies at Notre Dame and eventually helped pioneer them throughout this country and abroad," writes Fischer. One of the movies his students made was the 195:5 fllm, "Shake Down the Thunder." 
Fischer has many tips for those Interested In writing: "Don't let the written word get too far from the spoken word," he says. The professor passes his Ideas on to today's students through guest lectures he gives to writing classes. He warns student of the clutter and cloudiness of "gobbledygook." "If you have to reread a sen­tence or a paragraph because of fogginess, the writer Is steal­lng your time. People say, "Time is money, " but that Is 
there Is a show J-5 p.m. Wed­nesdays just for you. Tuesday nights, 10-11 p.m. feature the popular call-In talk show "Speaking of Sports." Wednes­day night. 10-1 I, is "Radio Free Notre Dame," a campus topics talk show. Album reviews air at 9 p.m. every Monday, and new releases at 9 
p.m. on Tuesdays. 
But even with all the new offlces and equipment. there are still some minor problems. "One Is the sheer size of the new studios," relates Mike Ian­nelll. "When we were over at O'Shaughnessy, the record II­brary was right there In the studio. Now, when someone calls In with a request. I have to run all the way down the hall, flnd the record, and make It back before the record I'm playing ends. I think they're trying to make sure we get enough exercise around here." 
Also, because the station can't be received by off-campu students, O'Neil would like to Increase exposure to that group by piping music Into the South Dining Hall and LaFor­tune, but has run Into prob­lems there, too. Although the dining hall already has a sys-tern In place, the echoes created by the cathedral ceilings are a problem. The system in LaFortune Is not really working well, either. These problems must be worked out if the Ideas are to materialize. For now though, WVFI will be keeping Its fans very happy just the way It is: better, stronger, and refresh­lngly different. 
EDWARD FISCHER 
--·····--·---·····---­

NOTREDAME 
not true. Time is far more valuable than money. You can't repay a minute." 
Fischer's book Is also fllled with humorous anecdotes that share a remarkable look at the Notre Dame of the past and the changes It has undergone. The reader sees the continuity of the Notre Dame tradition that began with Father Sorin on the shores of Saint Mary's lake. 
"Notre Dame Remembered" is being well received. Profes­sor Donald Costello, chairman of the American Studies depart­ment. said, "''ve never read a better autobiography." Father 

J\llliRitlts ofthe Castle .&··--·-s Hairstyling
$6atudent $8.50 completes1yle 
AWAYFROM CAMPUS 
272-6312 211·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
..................,................. 
c..-...ataala•I••......NetHeeu•
._.,.,........................... 

Your choice ofentree includes our Salad Buffet plus Baked Potato, French Fries, Ji!getable or Rice Pilaf. 
•Charbroiled 
Ham Steak • Prime Rib of Beef 

• 
Fried Filet of Sole •Chicken Teriyaki 

•Chopped 
Sirloin Monterey • Lemon Sole 


only S5.95 only S6.95 Served: Monday 5:00 til 8:00p.m.; Tues.-Sat. 5:00 til 10:00 p.m. Sunday 4:00 til 8:00 p.m. 
Regular Dinner Menu SERVED EASfER 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 
300 E. Colfax at the River Reservations Accepted 
234-4477 

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY 

Hesburgh said of the work, "It's a wonderful book, especially for one who loves this place and cherishes it as I do." Sister Marjorie Jones of Saint Mary's College observed, "I thought no one could put words to­gether as beautifully as E. B. White did, but Professor Fischer does it equally well, and that is pretty close to perfection in my estimation." "Kirkus Reviews," a service for librarians and booksellers, reports the follow­ing: "Well-written and big~ hearted, this book is great for Notre Darners, and there is much in it for others as well." 
The Observer -April 3, 1987 Scene-Page 3 
Tower of Power: making headlines with the News 

T 
his Sunday Huey Lewis and the News will play at the Notre Dame ACC. They will be joined throughout their set by the group Tower of Power. "Who Is the Tower of Power?" you ask. "And what are they doing on my campus?" 
This Is a good question. To answer, the Tower of Power halls from Oakland, california. In their own words, they play "funky soul and rhythm and blues." In their early days they were popular In their own right, touring and recording with bands like Creedence Clear­water Revival. Sly and the Fam­Ily Stone, Elton John and Smokey Robinson. Then In the late '70's they dropped out of sight. 
Now In the mld'80's they are experiencing a big comeback. England loves them and Elvis Costello and Jake Riviera are among their British admirers. Here In America they have been prominently featured on several Huey Lewis and the News albums and are now touring with him. I talked with group leader Emilio castillo on Wednesday afternoon. about the group's new success. 
Ob: You guys have been around for quite a long time, right? 
EC: We're going on 19 years now. Ob: With basically the same lineup? EC: We've got flve original members. 
Ob: Your press release says that you've gotten your biggest breaks In Europe. Do you flnd that Europeans are more open­minded about music? 
EC: I think In general there's a trend toward soul music over there, starting In the late seventies. We went over there a few years ago. We've gone back several times since and our market's definitely there. They love soul music and see us as 'the real thing.· 
Ob: Doesn't that seems strange since soul Is so dis­tinctly American? 
EC: Well, I think Americans take It for granted because this is where It came from. 
Ob: Are you going to do any solo dates wh!le you're touring with the News? 
EC: We'll do eight dates: some small arenas, some col· leges, the Bottom Line In New York, and the Letterman show on May 6th. 
Ob: Will you be playing with the Late Night House Band? 
EC: It'll be their band and our horns. We'll tape during the day and then do the Bot­tom Line shows. 
Ob: How did you get involved with Huey Lewis? 
EC: He came up to me at an awards benefit called The Bam­mys In San Francisco (the Bay Area music awards), and he said to me, "You're Emilio Cas­tillo aren't you?" He said that he and his band had been fans of ours since they were all about I I years old. He was just going on about how much he liked the band and I said, "Thank you, what's your name?" "Huey," he said. "Huey? Is your band the News? You guys got debut album of the year, right?" But he says, "Oh yeah ... but that's nothing. you guys are the greatest and blah, blah, blah." So about a month later he brought his whole band over to the old Waldorf to see us. This 

W1thln walking distance to the Untvers1ty of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy RoM South !lend, lndlane 46637 
"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reserve\lons cell (219) 277-96EI2 

Tower of Power will be appearing with Huey Lewis and the News this Sunday at the ACC. 
was back In '82.  R and B, Memphis, James ping Us Now." He's a big fan of  
Anyway, they came backstage  Brown, Philadelphia, any soul. ours and I wouldn't be doing  
and they were all excited and  Ob: You seem to have had a this If he weren't. Soon It got  
we became really good friends.  real resurgence In popularity to the point where the Tower of  
A little while later we did our  these last few years. To what Power was getting more  
first tune with him, "Hope You  do you attribute that? popular, getting more offers  
Love Me Like You Say You Do,"  EC: Well, for one, we never for gigs. But they were all the  
and I was very pleased to flnd  gave up. We stayed together same kind of gigs. You know,  
that they played good, soulful  and toured. We're also an ex­club dates where you have to  
music. I klnda thought they  cellent performing band, and I travel forever, do all this work,  
were a punk band or someth·  think people get more out of a and end up getting taken by  
lng. at first. but was really  stage performance.  Ob: How some club owner. Well, when  
pleased with that song 'cause It  have you guys been received Huey featured one of my songs  
sounded like Sam and Dave or  on the Fore! tour? Do you get a on the Forel album ("'t's As  
something.  solo spot? Simple As That") and needed  
Ob: Are those your In­ EC: Oh yeah, Huey features our horn section, we signed  
fluences? Sam and Dave? The  us and says our name loud on. Now we're turning people  
Motown session musicians?  and proud. He even sings one down when they call for gigs.  
EC: Our Influences Include all  of our songs, "Nothing's Stop-You know, the less you're  

WVFI Top Ten 
around the more they want you and the more you're around the less they want you. 
Ob: That must be pretty sat­Isfying. having promoters chasing you. 
EC: It Is satisfying. Actually, It's funny (laughs). Ob: How Is playing for 20,000 people an arena different from playl for 50 people In a club? 
EC: There's no real differ­ence. You play the same wa: to the hilt. 
EC: It Is satisfying. Actually, It's funny (laughs). 
Ob: How Is playing for 20,000 people In an arena different from playing for 50 people In a club? 
EC: There's no real differ­ence. You play the same way, to the hilt. 



LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP 
Campus Band 
for the 


Publicity
GREAT HUNGER CLEAN-UP 1987 
If you are a member of a campus band and wish to appear for free In The Observer, call Kendra Morrill at
on April 11, 10 am -1 pm 
28.3-.369.3 or bring the band's name and schedule to The 
Observer office. 
Sign up TODAY in the 

Center for Social Concerns 
Help beautify South Bend while raising money to fight world hunger 



--I-he-O.bs._e~~or____ 
~------. ----.&.~Y=-'----­
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Prizes for top fundraising individuals including round trip ticket 
anywhere in US (compliments of Exec. Travel), Pizza or Ice 


newspaper
Cream party for dorm with highest participation. 

Be a part of it. 
The Observer -April3, 1987 






Greetings f 
aa wa .';;-­
As much as they miss Notre Dame, the students ofthe Lon­don program ofstudies cannot complain. Approximately 80 juniors are chosen each se­mester to take their arts and letters endeavors abroad. All will agree that the chance to travel and study in Europe as well as building new and strong friendships accen­tuates the Notre Dame experi­ence. 
Photos and text by Brian Mast 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
,r 

the Commons at the college. 
A member of the "Men's liberation organization" 
degrades the female species at Speaker's Corner 
er In Hyde Park, while a street artist performs 
for small change at the Tower of London. 


Scene-Page 4-5 


om London 
NOTAE DAME 


masterpiece at the hotel, while Brian Owsley attempts to control a hungry crowd at the flats with his cookery. 

--
"Tal" 

The Observer -April 3, 1987 Scene-Page 6 
()2's best effort yet 
KRIS MURPHY Brian Eno and Daniel Lanais Without You" and its a strange features writer return and they're responsible hybrid. The first half belongs to for the cathedral organ that Eno, a man famous for hisJn the two years since U2's greets the listener as the al-incredible synthesizer and 
last album The Unforgettable bums first sound. Then from weird noise albums in the early Fire, rock 'n' roll fans the world somewhere in the background seventies.· He creates a spare over have come to expect a lot comes the familiar choppy rin-landscape of drums and ping-from the band. You can't blame ging of the Edge's guitar and ponging synth noises over 
them. The Unforgettable Fire is Bono is singing, "I want to which Bono half-whispers the rurv1 want to hide1 want to tear lyrics. Just when it's starting to down the waiiS'that hold me get old, the Edge comes 
inside." Those words are from roaring through the mix with a 
"Where the Streets Have No beautiful stinging guitar part, 
Name" and they sum up the and the song dies away. It's an 
central theme of the album; interesting effect, but it sounds 
people are walled in, im-like two different songs. Eno 
far from perfect, but it had prisoned by everything from and Lanais are both given sing-
plenty of truly memorable mo-their government to them-ing and playing credit on the 
ments and the group's uncom-selves. This is an album about album so I guess it's no real 
promising idealism and in-people struggling with powers surprise. Former U2 producer
--
credible performances have bigger than themselves for 
Steve Lillywhite Is also given won them a huge and rabid their freedom. It's also about credit, but only for mixing a 
following. Bono, the Edge, redemption, a subject they've few of the songs. features countryfolk instrumen-of view; "Midnight, our sons Adam Clayton and Larry com-always been obsessed with. 
The next song is "Bullet the tation in its account of heroin and daughters-Were cut down prise probably the most The second song "I Still Blue Sky," a stinging attack on addiction. and taken from ustfiear their popular group in the world. Haven't Found What I'm American militarism that fea-"Mothers of the Disappeared" heartbeaV We hear their 
With all the expectations and Looking For" deals with that tures some of Bono's most is the album's last song and heartbeat/In the wind..." pressure it's no wonder the obsession. Bono sings, "I inspired singing ever and wild also its most haunting. The The Joshua Tree is a chal­band took two years to release believe in the Kingdom neo-psychedilic guitar playing subject is the abduction, tor-lenging and consistent state­Its new album The Joshua Comelfhen all the colors will from the Edge. He sounds like ture and murder of thousands ment from one of this decade's Tree, but release it they have, bleed into one-But yes I'm still bravest bands. The music is
a cross between Jimi Hendrix of young people in countries and it's a big relief. Instead of running." Musically, the first and Bob Mould. like Argentina and Brazil. The stirring and eclectic and the becoming pompous and com-two songs are typical U2· "Red Hill Mining Town" is a music is hushed and an lyrics continually address real placent like most former "big-Edge's eerie droning and the very successful experiment with ominous synthesizer is the problems in an intelligent man­gest groups in the world" highly assertive rhythm section folk instrumentation. It is also main instrument that evokes ner. Bono insists that music they've managed to produce of Mullen and Clayton. a fine third-person account of the dread that one would feel can change things for the bet­the best album of their almost The next song shows the the effect of Britain's coal strike at hearing a late-night knock at ter and its hard to argue with ten-year-old career. strong influence of Eno and on a married couple by Bono. the door. Bono approaches the this when faced with The Jos­
Unforgettable Fire producers Lanais. It's called "With or "Running to Stand Still" also tragedy from a mother's point hua Tree. 
Psychedelic Furs in a 'holding pattern' 
H
KRIS MURPHY matic group leader, starts to The title song "Midnight to
PSYCHEDELIC FURS features writer sing in his hushed, nicotine­Midnight" is probably the al­ravaged voice, "There's a bum's best song after eartbreak Beat" the first heartbreak beat playing all "Heartbreak Beat." As an 
song on the new Psyc­night long1)own on my street. evocation of New York City, it hedelic Furs' album Midnight to roars along on the power of Midnight is seductive, instantly It's a tale of betrayal and plain guitar, bass and drums memorable and perfectly infidelity set to incredible horn­and Butler's scattershot vocals. played and sung. In other playing and a weird distorted words, it's another great mid­guitar solo. As always, though, Taken as a whole Midnight to 
,__ 
tempo Furs song in the tradi­Butler's voice is the main at­Midnight is a holding pattern.
= 
c:.=l 
= 
tion of "The Ghost in You" and traction. His chain-smoking By that I mean that each one = "Love My Way." habit of five packs of cigarettes of their previous albums found a day gives a unique raspy them making some progress. 

quality to his singing. They'd gone from angry post­
The remaining songs on the punks to angst-ridden popsters album Midnight to Midnight to excellent song-writers by the divide its quality. An example time of their last album, Mirror of the really good is "Shock" Moves, but Midnight to Mid­which is built on a grungy fuzz­night finds them covering the 
The song "Heartbreak Beat" tone guitar riff and liberal same lyrical and musical terri­begins with a high, wavering doses of saxophone that seem tory as they were two years synth note. Some horns kick in to jump out of the mix at will. ago. Songs like "Heartbreak and the rhythm section starts "Angels Don't Cry" is another Beat" and "Shock" make it easy to pulse very slowly. It turns ballad that is memorable due to forget about that but it into a great song when Richard to a beautiful slow saxophone would be sad to see these guys Butler, lead singer and e11ig-solo and its great hook. get stagnant. 
llftW 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

W THIS wEEitAT."THE SNITE 
Individual admission: $1.50 

Dawn or the Dead(l979) Friday, April 3 at 7:30pm, Snite 
Once again George Romero rNight of the Living Dead! unleashes his zombies in an incredibly tense and suspenseful horror film laced witn a generous sense of humor. Romero's zombies are particularly 
-
apropos in the suburban Pittsburgh of shopping malls, where they seem to be an outgrowth of the postmodern nuclear landscape. 
Bananas(l971) Monday, April 6 at 7 pm, Snite 
Allen casts himself as a meek factory worker who runs off to South America, where he leads a revolution and becomes a hero. Full of unusual comic ideas, with a generous dose of sight gags. Here Allen pays tribute to world film history and the classic silent comedians. 
Open Clty(l945) Monday, April 6 at 9 pm, Snite 
-The documentary look of the film (partially created by the technical limitations of shooting a liberation film during the actual Nazi withdrawal from Rome) and, most of all, its passionate effort to examine the truth after 20 years of Italian fascism have kept this film a living, caring human document. 
Blade Runner(l984) Tuesday, April 7 at 7:30pm, Snite 
Ridley Scott's visually stunning film has already achieved "classic" status as one of the most significant and influential films of the past decade. For Stanley Kubrick it is simply the best American film since Citizen Kane. Classic or not, this dazzling film creates an unforgettable vision of the 21st century. 
·All films are screened in the Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 




ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 
272·71~ 



The Observer -April 3, 1987 Scene-Page 7 

Theater 
The Elkhart Civic Theatre will pres­ent "Ain't Mlsbehavln"' tonight and tomorrow night at 8: 15 p.m. In the Bristol Opera House. For reserva­tions call 848-4 I 16 between .3 and 8 p.m. 
JMuslc 
IH 
The Olee Club Spring Concert will be held tonight at 8: 15 p.m. In Washington Hall. For more Informa­tion call Eric Kuhner at 2.39-6201. 
The Notre Dame Music Department Is sponsoring the Notre Dame Cham­ber Orchestra Recital Sunday after­noon In Washington Hall at 4 p.m. For more Information call Eric Kuh­ner at 2.39-620 I . 
The Scoop 
Movies 

The Student Activities Board presents "Pretty In Pink" tonight and tomorrow night In the Engineering Auditorium. Molly Ringwald stars as a high school girl who falls In love for the first time--only she's poor and he's rich. Shows begin at 7, 9, and 11 p.m. Admission Is $1.50. 
"Dawn of the Dead" will be showing tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. Director George Romero uses his famed zombie approach to create a suspenseful horror mm that will make you laugh. The show starts at 7:.30 p.m. Admission Is $1.50. 
A guide to movie theaters In the South Bend-Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S. .31 N. 

100 Center Cinema I and II 100 Center, Mishawaka 259-0414 Now playing: Golden Child and 
Crocodile Dundee. 

River Park Theatre 2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 Now playing: A Room With a VIew. 
Scottsdale Theatre 

115.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 Now playing: Morgan Stuart's Com­
Ing Home and Blind Date. Town and Countly Theatre 
2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka 259-9090 Now playing: Tin Men, Lethal 
Weapon, and Platoon. 

University Park Cinema I, II and Ill .366 University Park Mall 277-0441 Now playing: Black Widow, The 
Mission, and Mannequin. Call theaters for prices and show­
times. 

lmVIN WALSH features writer 
P 
aul Weller first came Into the public eye as the angry young mod leading the sonic assault of The Jam, one of the 
Records 


~~The Cost of Loving Style Council 
primary punk bands that was once as popular In England as Van Halen Is here. Weller led the band with a flying-spit In­tensity which seemed to Ignore fatigue. 
They ·had a problem, though. The Jam got too big. Weller's attempts to keep the music fresh were only bogged down by the band's popularity and the demands of Its public. The Jam disbanded and Paul Weller formed the Style Council. 
It seemed like a logical move at the time. Mod culture, upon which Weller based his Ideals, and The Jam were steeped In the great soul music of the sixties that. with "The Big Chill," became a sort of a beginner's primer In hlp. The Style Council would later return to this fantastic soul tradition and Weller would get back to his roots. 
Well, I think he went right past them, and three albums later, It seems like Paul Weller Is bogged down again. 
The Cost Of Loving starts off with "It Didn't Matter," a muzak-y love song, which seems as If It may be a partial disavowal of his days with The Jam. He pulls the same schizo­phrenic trick In "Waiting," which appears to be another love song, but could also be a response to his army of new critics. 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO™ 

ONEHOUR ONEHOUR
MOTOPHOTo·· • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTo·· 
UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 
272-8243 291-3096 
·---~;;-~~--~~~()····r·······--if=~i::~---··········-~~~iej--~~~---· 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING With this coupon, receive 5].00 OFF on a 36 exposure, s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, 51 .00 OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro­cessing and printing at One Hour Moto  With ~!To~pon.~~!v~FFRE~RExlt~aTSeSt of Prints, when presenting one roll of color print film (C-41 process) for processing and print­ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to one roll per coupon per customer. Not valid  PASSPORT PHOTO With this coupon, receive s2.00 OFF your passport photo at One Hour Moto Photo. Not valid with any other promotion. One coupon per customer per visit. Expires june 1. 1987.  
Photo. Coupon offers may not be combined. Expires june 1. 1987. ~,.J!!J.Yl!­·­FS tVUtUM"fUIU.  wit~ any other promotion. Exprres: june 1, 1987. FS ~­ FS  ~­ 

L---~---···-······················------····················----------·····-···-···---·-······-~ 
Art 
~I 

The exhibition "Directions In American Painting 1875-1925" will be on display at the Snlte Museum of Art through Sunday. The collec­tion focuses on French Impres­sionists and other famous American painters from that era Including John Singer Sargent and Mary Cas­satt. The collection was organized by the Carnegie Institute and has been travelling the country since 1982. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday; 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday; and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday. The museum Is closed on Mondays and holidays. 

Masses for this weekend at Sacred Heart Church are: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and 10:.30 a.m. and 
12:15 p.m. 
The rap song which we have come to expect from a Style Council record Is here. It's called "Right To Go" and Is an­other rather generic rap against politics, capitalism, and soci­ety, espousing the right to vote with a standard rap group who use a lot of "Check It out.'s" 
and "Alright. y'all's." 
D. C. Lee, the lovely girl with a near perfect voice who has appeared on all the Style Coun­cil albums, has apparently fi­nally been recognized as a full­time member. The band Is better for lt. She lends the Style Council a graceful soul credibility which It needs, but even she can't save It com­pletely. Her one solo shot, the unlisted "A Woman's Song," Isn't pulled off as successfully as she merits. It Is a lullaby from an unemployed divorced woman singing her child to sleep with the tale of her woes. Her voice, as always. Is stun­ning, and the understated In­strumentation works well, but the song Itself somehow rings false. 
The remainder of the album Is basic, sugar-coated Paul Wel­ler. A semi-funky bass line curls happily around the har­monies of the two singers as the beauty of the harmonies tries to cover up the lyrics. The only song on the album not penned by Weller, "Angel," points up this problem very well, Interestingly enough. It boasts an atmospheric synth line. chiming bells, chilled vo­cals. but just lousy lyrics. 
I really do hesitate to write Paul Weller off as a rock 'n' roller, but this album has as much to do with rock 'n' roll as my grandmother (which Is not to put down my grandmother). The Cost of Loving Is soothing. It Is listenable. It Is good rainy day music. It's like Windham Hill with a frosted haircut, a new white jacket. and shiny loafers. It is not rock 'n' roll. And for a man with as a grand rock 'n' roll tradition to uphold as Paul Weller. It's just not enough. 
The Observer -April 3, 1987 Scene-Page 8 
I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I , I 
I 
Of boors, basketball and bittersweet goodbyes 

have much class." I wondered respect yourself. Listen to this, grace?" She answered, "If I
S 
lttlng at the dinner table started with the Camelot Inter­
If his wife and children were "If I have all the eloquence of am, I pray God will keep menext to his, I wonder what im. At a number of dedications proud of their tasteless father. men o,r of angels, but speak there. If I am not, I pray God the retiring champ thinks about still ahead, Father Hesburgh The word "class" Is not easily without class, I am simply a will put me there." 
as he gets ready to hang up will be mentioned as the defined, and neither Is the gong booming or a cymbal Perhaps Father Hesburgh the gloves? Imagining Father dreamer who saw In his mind's 
word "pornography." Years clashing ... If I have faith In all prays for Notre Dame to holdHesburgh's stream of con­eye what had not yet hap­ago, John F. Kennedy put his Its fullness, to move moun­onto --or, if any of it has been sciousness Is like trying to pened, and asked: "Why finger on Richard Nixon's flaw: tains, but without class, then I lost, which God forbid, to find guess what went through couldn't It happen here?" With "He lacks class." Cardinal New­am nothing at all. If I give it again --the grace that makes Rockne's mind as he composed the help of Notre Dame's man wrote, "It Is almost a defi­away all that I possess ... and If us Catholic and Christian. Hethe Glpper speech. friends, the buildings go up. 
nition of a gentleman to say he I even let them take my body trusts his successors to set Is one who never Inflicts pain." to burn It but am without their course by the eternal Watergate caused the nation class, It will do me no good at stars.
Father Robert Griffin pain. Stylistically, Nixon was an all. Class is patient and kind. It embarassment and that's pain­Is never jealous. Class Is never The Catholic soul is what
Letters to a Lonely God ful too. Nixon has paid for his boastful or conceited. It Is gives Notre Dame class and sins; nowadays I feel sorry for never rude or selfish; It does sets it apart. Hesburgh has him. He shows us how a failure not take offence and Is not struggled as a priest to keep 
Is his head as tired as mine Reading The Observer, I won­In style or class can be fatal If resentful. Class takes no plea­the spirit of the age, which is would be after .35 years? Are dered If he noticed a new note It leaves you paranoid about sure In other people's sins but death-bearing. from ruining the these bittersweet days for him? added to the usual complaints: being the odd man out. delights In the truth. It Is al­school. Do the undergraduates 
The word "bittersweet" "The new boss understands us; Some people are born classy; ways ready to excuse, to trust appreciate how important his· comes to mind, because he the old boss stood ready to you can tell they have class the to hope... class does not come religion Is to him and all the once described something I close us down." first time you meet them. to an end ... " old timers? If he comes back wrote as bittersweet. He was This hint of the father being Some people develop their Undergraduates are not al­In 100 years as a ghost he'll right; the blttersweetness was played against the grandfather class as they go along. Their lowed to act classless, though check to see If the chapels are there. I could see It after he could make Father Hesburgh's Instincts are good; they quickly they're kicking and screaming still being used for Mass. This pointed It out. A university departure bittersweet If It be­discover how churlish It feels to "I gotta be me." Class, as part will be a sign to him --not the president could experience his comes the fashion. With so be lowlife like a guttersnipe. of a Notre Dame education, Is number of buildings --that final six weeks In ofnce as blt­much on his mind, perhaps he Some people are also-rans with something students pay for something was done well In the tersweetness. doesn't pay attention or maybe neutered decencies. Though without wanting their money's Hesburgh years. How many 
He's reviewing the good he takes It In stride. they are not ill-willed, you can't worth. I ask seriously: is It headaches has he suffered times and the bad or feeling The hard feellns:~ caused by even teach them class as an really censorship to be holding the line as an old­scared as well as relieved, like the suppression of team names acquired language. Class, as a deprived of cheap language fashioned priest, during the a senior about to graduate, reminded me of the time I was code of ethics and a set of times of the great change? that tomorrow will be different Introduced to a racketeer who manners, should be second embarassing to the University? from the time that Is still left wore a ring set with diamonds nature to you. Politeness re­Don't students want the depart­In a season of tainted evan­him on campus, where he has that spelled the most common quires that you don't embarass Ing leader to think Notre Dame gelism, we've never had to been at home so long. of the four-letter words. I've anyone; classiness Is harder. It has given them better values apologize for him, or ask what 
Like the basketball season, read the word, heard the word, means that you leave them than that? he did with the money raised. the Hesburgh years will not be and perhaps even used the feeling that because of them, Seen at dinner, he seems ready over until they are over. When word, In my salad days, when everything in sight is coming What thoughts are on Father to retire without a backward will the last brick be laid, the my judgment was green. I was up roses. Hesburgh's mind as he gets look. The changing of the final cornerstone blessed, of surprised to meet a man who In a world without faith, class ready to retire? Joan of Arc, on guard is a classy act of which the buildings that go up be­took pleasure In wearing the could be as helpful as a reli­trial for her life, was asked Hesburgh is the star. The cause a benefactor was Im­word on a piece ofjewelry. My gion in motivating you to about the mystery nobody can Elijah's cloak falling from his pressed with Father Ted? An reaction was, "This bird doesn't respect your neighbor as you answer, "Are you In a state of shoulders should fit Monk well. anecdote In circulation for decades takes this form, though the subject of the anec­dote Is not Father Hesburgh. 
A Notre Dame administrator calls up a contractor to get an estimate on building a mausoleum. The contractor, after studying the specs, says: 
Formerly Locks'Liquor World 
"It will cost $10,000." "That much?" exclaims the adminis­trator. "Are you crazy? I'm only 
2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 
planning to use It for three days." It's obvious that the 
Across &om YeUow Submarine 
story wasn't Inspired by the Hesburgh style, since he Is Im­mortal. He must be proud of the new facilities as they be­
Milwaukee's Best Basch Buschqts
come available, but he doesn't see them built as though his blood were In the bricks as his 
89ceaclaor
$4.99acase $6.19
monument. When the first astronaut 

$9.99acase 
landed on the moon, the na­tion recalled Kennedy, who 
Lite

promised a moon landing at the end of the decade that 
$8.29acase 
Schlitz Malt Colt45 Popov Vodka 40oz-99t 40oz-99e $8.99J75ml 
At All P!Jtt Theatres 7 Days A Week' 
~$3.50* Everclear WE Peachtree Schnapps
~--------­
"Wtth Student 1.0. Card 
$10.49 750mf HAVE $5.995tla 
1) t>latoon (R) • A*. Awd Winner 2:15 4:45 7:15 9:45 "Inc Beet 
KEGS 
2) Tin Men (R) Plclure 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:25 
3) Lethal Weapon (R) Our motto is to wheel and deal. 
2:05 4:30 7:00 9:30 
Come and talk to us about parties, SYR's, etc. Also check our keg prices. 
Wana orCold BeerAvaDable 
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 11 




Irish hope to conquer Badgers on strength of freshman Peltier's bat 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Trying to snap out of a defen­sive slump that has seen the Notre Dame baseball team give up 20 runs in its last two games, the Irish may not be facing the best team to remedy the situation this weekend in the University of Wisconsin. 
The 7-10 Irish are slated to play two doubleheaders against the Badgers at Jake Kline Field. Saturday's action is scheduled to begin at 1 p.m., and Sunday's games will begin at 12 noon. Wisconsin held a 5­10 record going into yester­day's game against Val­paraiso. 
"Wisconsin's been in the same boat we've been in," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "They haven't been able to play many games lately either." The cancellation of yesterday's Bethel game marked the third cancellation of an Irish home game this year. 
Although Wisconsin's record is mediocre, it is no fault of the Badgers' starting lineup. Wis­consin holds a team batting average of .326. Centerfielder Mike Barker and first baseman Scott Cepicky lead the Badgers with respective batting averages of .414 and .360. 
Those numbers aren't wel­come sights for the Irish pitchers, who have seen their team earned run average soar above 4.50 in the last week. Notre Dame plans to start Kevin Chenail, Brian Piotrowicz, and Mike Passilla-­the team's three leading cute and do the things they starters--this weekend, with know they are capable of doing, the fourth starter not yet deter­and we'll get on a roll." mined. One hitter who has provided 
"Our pitching's going to have some timely hitting already for to come arourid," continued the Irish has been freshman Gallo. "They have to get ahead Dan Peltier. The rightfielder in the count more often." sports a .356 batting average 
Wisconsin's pitching has and leads the Irish in home been the cause of its downfall runs (2), runs batted in (16), so far this year. The Badger walks (10), and in slugging 

percentage (.492). While most freshmen take some time to ad­just, Gallo is not too surprised with Peltier's. quick start. 
"Dan was a good player that came in with a lot of good credentials, and I thought he'd make a contribution soon," said Gallo. "He's been a wel­come contributor, and he can become nothing but a better player in the next three years." 
Saying Peltier came in with a lot of good credentials is a slight understatement. At Shenendehowa High School in Clifton Park, NY, Peltier was 
staff has a 6.44 team ERA. Lef­captain of both the football and thanded pitcher Tom Fisher baseball teams, quarterback­has looked impressive with a ing his football team to the 
1.59 ERA and 19 strikeouts in state's top ranking. In 17 innings, and righthanded baseball, Peltier batted over Scott Pelowski has a 3.71 ERA .500 in both his junior and in 17 innings. Beyond that, Wis­senior years. consin has not been too impres­Though he was successful in sive on the mound. both sports in high school, Pel­
The weekend could be a tier did not take too long to chance for the Irish to drive in decide what sport to play in col­more runs, as the Irish have lege. left an average of almost eight "We had like a little league men on base each game. football, and everybody played 
"We've left a considerable that, and football was kind of number of people on base, but like the thing to do where I was the positive aspect of that we're from," said Peltier. "Baseball, getting people on base," said I've just always loved, and I Gallo. "The timely hitting will played in the backyard with my come around. They have to exe-friends and brothers and 
friends. I've been playing 
baseball since I was six years old, starting with teeball.' 
A 6'1", 190-pound lefthander, Peltier turned down offers from Clemson and the Univer­sity of North Carolina to play baseball at Notre Dame. 
After playing in the Albany Twilight League over the sum­mer and posting a .400 average during Notre Dame's fall season, the only adjustment left for Peltier to make was in the field. At high school, Peltier played first base, but he is seeing most of his playing time at right field this season. His three errors early in the season 

The Observer /Greg Kohs 

Freshman outfielder Dan Peltier has been an unexpected source of power in the baseball team's lineup. The Irish will take on Wisconsin this weekend for a pair of doubleheaders at Jake Kline 

Summer Sessions at 

Indiana University at South Bend 
May 18-June 29

GRADUATE NURSES 
July 6 -August 14 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad•aet• 

For your copy of the schedule 
nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a 
call 237-4455

comprehensive twelve-week-long, fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. 
IUSB Admissions Office 
Beyond orJentation, you will have the challenges and the 
1700 Mishawaka A venue 
growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Graduates apply now for positions available ln1967. Stattlng salary $23,661. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 600-bed acute'" care Meyo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose gr<Jwth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street 
The Observer Is accepting applications for 
Rochester, MN 55902 
the following paid polltlona:
Call Collect: (507) 288-7091 
DAY EDITOR & TYPIST 
Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-5313). 

Field. 

are about the only thing Peltier 
has had trouble with. 
"You just have to get used to judging the fly balls; I'm used to the ground balls from playing first base," said Pel­tier. "I just need to get my de­fensive position set because this is my first year in the out­field, and I want to get com­fortable." 
Peltier has more than com­pensated for any lapses in the field with his firepower at the plate. Peltier has emerged early in the season as the team's main power hitter, though Peltier does not think of himself that way. 
"I still don't think of myself as a power hitter,'' said Peltier. "I think of myself as a gap hit­ter, getting doubles and triples, and when the home runs come, that's nice. I don't go up swing­ing for the fences." 
Peltier's quick start has also earned him the confidence of his teammates. 
"A lot of players feel if they get on base for Peltier, he'll knock them in," said Gallo. "He and (Pat) Pesavento have been the most consistent players we have. He's had a lot of RBI's. I'm not going to say he's going to come through all the time, but he's been coming through lately." 
While Peltier has been one of the few highlights in a season that has disappointed the Irish so far, Peltier feels the Irish are better than their record in­dicates, and that the team is ready to come on. 
"I definitely think that our record doesn't show what kind of team we have," said Peltier. "We've lost a lot of close games in the late innings, and that takes the wind out of your sails­-to play tough for seven or eight innings and lose. I don't think any team we've played has been better than us." 
Searcy 
continued/rom page 16 

scores corresponding to its per­formance against each individ­ual team. 
The Irish will need another impressive meet in the field events, but a solid performance from all is necessary if they are to take all three meets. 
"I expect us to do very well," said Piane, "I see no reason why we can't do as well or even a little better in the field events." 
Piane added that everyone will participate in their regular events this weekend. 

DRNCWG AND DR~ 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHIR 


------~--~~--­
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 12 
Gavin named MVP at banquet 

By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball season came to an official conclusion last evening at the team's year-end banquet in the ACC Monogram Room. Several individuals were pre­sented with awards while the Irish were praised for over­coming adversity during their 12-15 season. 
"It was the best of times, it was the worst of times,'' quoted H~ad Coach Mary DiStanislao. "We lost the wind from our sails for a while, and had our backs against the wall. 
"We had to dig deep," con­tinued DiStanislao, "but we found what it was like to be a team. With a little faith, resolve and commitment, we were able to spring forward 
USOC wants eligibility decided
Sports Briefs 
_ 
Bob Bayliss, an 18-year veteran of coaching tennis at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the U.S. Naval Academy, has been named the new men's head tennis coach next fall at Notre Dame. He replaces Tom Fallon, who is retiring this spring after leading the pro­gram for 31 years. -The Observer 
The ND women's golf club is hosting a tournament with DePaul and Indianapolis Sunday. The 18-hole tourn­ament begins at noon at the Burke Memorial golf course. 
-The Observer 
Team rosters for the An Tostal ultimate frisbee tournament are due today between 3 to 5 at the An Tostal office on the second floor of LaFortune. For more infor­mation contact Pat Dunne at 283-1562. -The Observer 
The St. Louis Cardinals traded outfielder Andy Van Slyke, catcher Mike Lavallier and pitcher Mike Dunne to the Pittsburgh Pirates for catcher Tony Pena. -The Observer 
"-------------------------' 
Lopez seeks top LPGA spot 
Associated Press 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. ­Nancy Lopez has cut back on golf to have more time for her family, but she still has a def­inite goal in her sport. 
"My goal now is to be No. 1 again," said Lopez, the LPGA player of the Year in 1978, 1979 and 1985. 
"I want to be the only player in history to be No. 1 and the mother oftwo," quipped Lopez, who was scheduled to begin play today in the $500,000 Nabisco Dinah Shore at Mis­sion Hills Country Club. 
"I want to keep on winning. My immediate goal, of course, is to win the Nabisco Dinah Shore, which is my favorite tournament.'' 
The 30-year-old Lopez, married to Baltimore Orioles infielder Ray Knight, recently returned to the tour after giving birth to her second child. 
Erinn Shea is now 10 months old, and Ashley Marie is 3. Lopez, with the help of a nanny, keeps the girls with her as she travels around the tour. 
Lopez, who won an amazing nine tournaments while playing a full schedule on the tour in 1978, said she plans to limit herself to 18 or 19 tourna­ments this year. 
"If I need more work to keep shooting well, I'll add a few as I go along," she said. "That's the schedule I'll keep until Ash­ley begins school. 
"Then I'll only play in the majors and a couple of other tournaments." 
Her return to the tour this year has been quite impres­sive. Lopez has played in four tournaments, with a second­place finish, a third-place finish, and a victory, in the Sarasota Classic in February. 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Robert H. Helmick, president of the U.S. Olympic Committee, wants the issue of athlete eligibility decided by the organization's House of Delegates this weekend. 
"Eligibility is one of the major topics that will be decided this weekend," said Mike Moran, director of the USOC's public information de­partment. "Helmick says the time for talking is over and a final policy needs to be deter­mined." 
Testing athletes for the use of marijuana, one of the drugs not on the USOC's list of banned substances since it is not con­sidered a performance­enhancing substance, is also expected to be reviewed. 
However, Moran doesn't an­ticipate a decision on the issue. About 300 delegates will hear reports from USOC commit­tees as the organization con­tinues to prepare for the 1988 Summer and Winter Olympics. Robert Kane, a former USOC president, is proposing an amendment to Olympic eligibility rules that ban ath­letes who have been profes­sional athletes or professional coaches in any sport. 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 
~··················· 
HUEY LEWIS 
and The News Sunday April 5 
7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $16.50 
Tickets available at the ACC Gate 10 Box Office or charge by phone 
(219) 239-7356 
and grow." 
The Irish struggled through the early part of their season, 
but  came  alive  in  the  final  
weeks  to  win  six  straight  
games.  

"I have never enjoyed coach­ing a team as much as I did those last three weeks," said DiStanislao, who notched her 200th career win in a 53-44 upset against No. 23 DePaul on February 21. 
Junior point guard Mary Gavin was named the team's Most Valuable Player and pre­sented a plaque by the National Monogram Club. Gavin was also presented with a game ball to commemorate her becoming Notre Dame's all-time leader in assists and steals, with 535 and 188 respectively. 
Freshman Annie Schwartz was presented with the Coach's Award as the "unsung hero." The 6-3 forward caught fire midway through the season and finished with 9.1 points and 
4.7 rebounds per game. In the final 11 games, Schwartz averaged 15.2 points per con­test, including a career-high 29 points against Detroit on February 11. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley's Student­Athlete Award was presented to junior Kathy Barron, while junior Sandy Botham was awarded a game ball for notch­ing her 1,000 career point in the season finale at Dayton. 
Gavin and Botham were named to the first team of the North Star All-Conference team, while sophomore Heidi 
Bunek was named to the second team. 
Currently the international federations in several sports disagree on eligibility criteria. The International Amateur Athletic Federation recently rejected applications for reinstatement from profes­sional football players Willie Gault, Henry Ellard and Vince Courville. 
IAAF president Primo Nebiolo recently announced that former pro football players Stanley Floyd, Mel Lattany and Mark McNeil had been reinstated in accordance with an unoffical policy that athletes who indicate they are finished playing professional football can compete in track. 
The International Tennis Federation, however, wants an open Olympics for their sport. 
A TIENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
. ············.
··...·...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·..·. 
Tuesday April 7, 1987 Wednesday April 8, 1987 
Between 9:00--4:30 :;:::::::::;:::::::::::::-:-:::::-:':::': at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
------------------------~----------­
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987-page 13 
Expansion franchises approved by NBA 
The Observer/ Joann Whitfield 
Mother Nature made defense a chore, as wet up on winners and losers alike. courts and driving, snow-filled winds whipped 
... 
... 
) # 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NBA ex­pansion committee recommen­ded Thursday that the league expand to 26 teams by adding franchises in Charlotte, N.C.; Minneapolis and either Miami or Orlando, Fla., for the 1988-89 and 1989-90 seasons. 
The five-member committee recommended that Charlotte be admitted for the 1988-89 season, Minneapolis the follow­ing season and the Florida team in one of those two seasons. A decision between Miami and Orlando will be made by the league in October. 
Each city would pay $32.5 million for its franchise if the NBA board of Governors goes along with the recommenda­tion when it meets April 22 in New York. A three-quarters vote of the owners is needed for a franchise to be accepted. 
"We're extremely delighted. We were such a long shot can­didate," said Dan Lohwasser, a for NBA char­
' 
St.f.oulo.Mo 

lotte. "People even locally didn't give us much of a chance of even making it, much less coming out No. 1. Of course, it still has to get by the NBA board of Governors, so we still have some work to do." 
"We won't make any type of real decisions until after April 22," said Bob Stein, the attor­ney for the group which would return pro basketball to Min­neapolis where the Los Angeles Lakers franchise originated. "Now we're just hoping the rest of the league agrees. 
"We're excited about having the opportunity to join the league. We are thrilled and flat­tered that we are being consid­ered like this." 
The committee also consid­ered Toronto, Anaheim, Calif. and St. Peterburg, Fla. 
"We feel like Charlotte was in such a strong position, having a new coliseum," Lob­wasser said. "This is the heart of basketball country, right dead in the center of the ACC; and we had an excellent coliseum lease with the full backing of the city. Businesses came through with season ticket sales we sold 8,900 season tickets." 
"It's a growth area and they're businessmen and rec­ognize that we were a viable city for a major league team," said Lohwasser, whose team would be known as the Spirit. 
Numbers 
continued/rom page 16 
Dillon led Law School Still Sucks over Four Fat Boys and a Cheesehead by pouring in a game-high 10 points. Also, Bill O'Neill scored seven as Liberace, Len Bias, and Three Other Guys Who Got Into Some Bad Crack annihilated Team £140, 21-5. 
Papa Sumby and the Flying Eggmen soared over Peeping Toms and Other Mem of Vision by the score of 21-13. Bob "Papa Sumby" Sumberac gar­nered seven points and 13 rebounds to lead the Eggmen, but it was Mike "Eggroll" Caponigro who delighted the crowd with his stalwart defen­sive play. 
As might have been ex­pected, however, not everyone who took the courts in yester­day's rather inclement wea­ther had his most scintillating performance. 
What the Puck obliterated the self-proclaimed Worst Team in Bookstore, 21-3, as the latter was prepared to back up their name's claim by shooting a combined 3-for-41. A for­midable challenge was offered nonetheless by Just Call Us Luggage, who needed 71 at­tempts to score six points against C.J. and the Ras­tafarians. 
The individual futility mark thus far was set yesterday by Chris Hodgson, who bricked his way to an 0-for-17 mark as his Hey Look, There's Corn in My Stool squad was demolished 21­7 by No We Can't Dunk. 
"The snow got in my eyes," said Hodgson. 
Today is the final day of preliminaries with first round matchups slated for the weekend. And the weather is supposed to be better. 
·----------------~--------------··-­
The Observer Friday, April 3, 1987-page 14 
Will this madness ever come to an end? 
Bookstore Tourn11ment 
Frlday'ao...... Stepan 1 
4:00 -Friends Don't Let Friends Drive vs Willie and the Wanna Bees 
4:45 -Emle, Bert and the Sesame St. Gang vs Libertyville Public Works 
5:30 -The Board Bangers vs Squeeze Luigi and the 4 Mops 6:15-We're Seniors, We Don't Need a Name vs Taquila Light Whitening 
Stepan 2 
4:00 -Rosie Palms -Soccer Burgers vs The Rejected Pilgrims 
4:45 -Brick Shooters Ill vs Four Guys and a Dog Named Newt 
5:30 -Team No. 468 vs Trojan Love Warriors 6:15-Keenan 3rd vs Pedro el Negro's Oriental Delights 
Stepan 3 
4:00 -Beer Bonging Baby Boomers of Bud and an old Swill vs Air Loomer 
4:45 -Liz Dawg's Faithful Followers vs Team No. 154 
5:30 -J.C. and 4 Other Guys ... vs Team No. 280 
6:15 -Freddie P. Come Home vs Guys That 
Coat Themselves ... Stepan 4 
4:00 -Love Tatoo vs Brendan Murphy's Jewish 
4:45 -Team No. 286 vs We Stink 
5:30 -Moses and the 4 Red Sea Men vs Tri­Kookle Pie ... 6:15-Robin's Nightmare: 4 Guys With Bad Aids vs Skoad Men 
Stepan 5 
4:00 -Groundskeepers of Busch Gardens vs Team No. 500 
4:45 -Sure She Was 12 .•• vs Team No. 208 
5:30 -Grand Master Gash ... Sharon & 4 Field Hockey Players 
6:15 -Pennsylvania's Treasurer & 4 Other Guys ... vs Team No. 557 
Stepan 8 4:00-Open Loop Shooters vs Captain Kirk & the Yeoman's Jamoch 
4:45 -I Need a Lover Who Won't Drive Me Crazy vs Revenge of the Enterprise 
5:30 -The Big Lie vs Ley Down, I Think I Love You 
6:15 -Sexy C Section vs Honer An Offer Stepan 7 

Thursday's courts. For the wimps who get to play today and over 
4:00-Kempton Club All-Stars vs The Masons 

the weekend, temperatures are expected to be moderate. 

"No pain, no gain" was 
Bookstore& 
4:00 -AII-Combrinatorial Pentalonlcs vs Jerry Slchting, Len Bias ... 
4:45 -Penetrators vs Team No. 647 5:30-The Peen & 4 Guys Who Don't Need 45 Sec... vs Goat Man & the Clowns... 
6:15 -Unknown Misfits vs Four Buds Please Bookatore 10 
4:00 -Team No. 1 vs The Cunning Linguists 4:45-Gods and Men at N.D. vs Team No. 230 
5:30 -Sun Tzu's Merry Band of Followers vs We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot 
6:15 -Bon Jovi (Livln' on a Prayer) vs Beij 
Missle Toe Rising ... Lyona 11 

4:00 -Axe Wounds '87: It's That Time Again vs Gerry's Kids 
4:45 -Grover & the Boys vs Skud & 4 Other Guys Who Can't Score 
5:30 -Tank Crew vs Four Cool Guys and a Sooner 
6:15 -Men Without Hot Rugby's vs We Might 
Not Show Up Lyona 12 

4:00 -Team No. 51 vs Team No. 487 
4:45 -Len Bias & 4 Other Guys Who'd Die if... vs Team No. 607 
5:30 -Three legs Help Us Sky vs Ridiculous Relationship With Jackie 
6:15 -John, Paul, Bob, Greg, Ray & Me vs A Priest and 4 Followers 
Thul'8dlly'a Raaulta 
Stepan 1 Colin Rowe & 4 Other Slugs over Ben Wa Ball Boys by 11 Oui-B-11 over Eyewitness News by 19 Mlchlana Express over Oliver North and the Classlfleds by 12 Killer Bees over Judokas from Hell by 16 
Stepan 2 Antlonlettl's Revenge vs South Hall by 13 Fat NO Chicks, Iran & 3 Other Unexplainable Scandals over Team No. 550 by 16 Actus Reus over Bad Company by 2 Ward, June & 3 Other People Who Like Beaver over Pasquale's Peste by 19 
Stepan 3 5 Guys Who Can't Penetrate But Will Shoot over The Gus Mackers by 16 Revenge of moijen Levae & the 4 Hot Rocks over Is It OK If I Go? by 14 5 Guys Who Put the legend to Shame over No Blood, No Foul by 16 Crocodile Jungee... over 5 Guys Who Should Have Ueed ... by 12 
Stepan 4 5 Responsible Drinkers from Pasq. North over Far Side Players by 3 The Old and Injured over 7 Minutes After 2 by 11 Love Test Lives over Team No. 429 by forfeit 
Stepan 5 No, We Can't Dunk over Hey look, There's Corn ... by 14 Desperados over What We Leek in Height We Possess in Strength by 15 Stand Up, You'll Do over Relum of Slow Children by 3 Team No. 166 over Fawn Hall Lied Under Us Too by 3 
Stepan 8 What lhe Puck over The Worst Team in Bookstore by 18 Scullyeosis over Winnie Quinn & the Deep, Dark, More ... by 12 
C.J. and the Rastafarians over Just Call Us 
luggage by 15 The Cool Team over Deunei by 3 

Bookatore 9 Mulley's Boys over 5 Cases of l.F. by forfeit Flying Irish over Hank Haymond, Mike Ditka & 3 Other Guys ... by 9 Papa Sumby & the Aying Eggmen over Peeping Toms & Other Men of Vision by 8 Chicken Patties. SMC Chicks & 3 Other Things ... over Air Monyak Ill ... by 11 
Bookatore 10 4 Real Hogs & One Schmo Who Missed the DePaul Game over Team No. 563 by 8 Puss over The Loaded Guns, 23-21 Jumping & Jerking on the ... over Watering Hole Bert Faccas by 2 law School Still Sucks over 4 Fat Boys & a Cheesehead, 22-20 
Lyona 11 Team No. 105 over Y'all Thought This Was My leg by 4 Team No. 211 over Good Things Come In Small Packages by 15 5 Methods for Birth Control over Billy Goat's Flying Circus by 4 Team No. 27 over Team No. 516 by 14 
Lyona 11 Oliver North & 4 Other Innocent Guys ... over Wally is a ... by 14 Chicks and Booze over Not Ready for Prime Time B-Bell Players by 6 Team No. 206 over Literary Illusions by 16 Liberace, len Bias & 3 Other Guys Who ... over Team No. 140 by 16 
Lohrer sisters to meet when Irish, Buckeyes clash in tennis meet 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will play three duel matches this weekend, but 
there's  no  contention  as  to  
which  team  the  Irish  would  
most like to beat.  

After last week's upset of Michigan, the Irish are bracing themselves for Ohio State, Wheaton College and Southern Illinois at Edwardsville. 
The match with Ohio State will begin at 3 p.m. today at the South Bend Racquet Club, and Head Coach Michele Gellman sees this match as another challenging hurdle for her team. 
"Last weekend's win over Michigan proved how hard the team has been working," said Gellman. "The most important thing we have to do against Ohio State is to have the psy­chological edge before we step out on to the courts." 
An interesting sidelight to the match will be the number one doubles match. Freshman Alice Lohrer will encounter a familiar face across the net, older sister Yvonne. 
The elder Lohrer, now a junior at Ohio State, attended Nick Bolletieri's tennis acadamy before earning a scholarship, while her younger sister opted to attend the smaller Gary Kisl tennis 

Walsh is key for Irish 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
Tommorow the Notre Dame men's tennis team travels to Ball State hoping to up their record to 14-8. A powerful force for the Irish will be hard-hitting junior Dan Walsh. 
Walsh began the season at the sixth spot, but through hard work and a little luck has spent most of the season in the fourth and fifth spots. The key to Walsh's success is twofold. His combination of skill and power has given him a strong baseline game while his attitude gives him a mental edge over his op­ponents as well. 
"In order to win, you need to be intense," said Walsh. "You have to go out there wanting to win." 
This intensity has enabled Walsh to establish a 20-1 record so far this season in singles. Along with his singles record, Walsh has teamed up with fel­low junior Paul Daggs in the doubles event. This duo has spent almost three seasons smashing opponents. Daggs' powerful serves and volleys compliment Walsh's baseline game. This season, the pair have attained a 10-2 record at the number two doubles spot. 
Coach Tom Fallon is im­pressed by Walsh both as a player and captain. 
"Dan is one of the most con­sistant players," said Fallon. "He sets a good pace for the team. In doubles, Dan and Paul are a good pair. When they are hot, they are a match for anyone in this area. Some days they are just unbeatable. 
"Last year Dan did a great job for us. He played at the number one spot at a much higher level than he was ready for. He stuck with it and made it easier for those behind him by taking on the tougher oppo­nents." 
This weekend, Notre Dame will be put to the test against Ball State. Last year the Irish took the Cardinals by surprise and won, 5-4. This time, however, the Irish will face a tougher, better-prepared Ball State team. 
"Ball State is a lot stronger this year," said Fallon. "They have matured and are ready for us. We're going to need a full effort by everyone to win." 
Returning to the lineup for the Irish will be Mike Wallace, who suffered a shoulder injury last week. Wallace's return will give the Irish a little extra drive for this weekend's match. 

acadamy before coming to DeCosmo, 6-0, 4-6, 7-6 (8-6 tie­Notre Dame. breaker). 
"We're very close, we get along great, but I don't like "The team we played in Min­playing her on the tennis nesota was not Ohio State's court," said Lohrer. number one team," said Loh­
Earlier this year the two rer. "Yvonne is playing today squared off at the Minnesota with Jody Saunders, and it's Doubles InvitationaL Lohrer going to be another close and Michelle Dasso got the bet­match." ter of her sister and Michelle "It doesn't matter whether we win the doubles match, what's important is for the team to win as a whole," said Lohrer. 
Since weather will not be factor, Gellman has the aggressive style of that proved successful aglun:st Michigan, especially in uv••u.."' action. 

't>E',S,C..E:.IPriCNS. CF-;f"'S\IIQ...LS AJ-.Jt> ...6.PPLICA'T\0t-..1S AVA\~£::.. lt-..l s:rut::e-JT ~T OFFI<:.E:S ­2.~ ~ LA~. APPLICA.ilo..lS DUE. &'( 
4'Co?H -Fl2.1't::aA.Y, ~ll.. $. 
'•r ~•"" -J~ 

~()~(l~----------------------~--------Fr-ma-y,A-pr-il3_,1~-7--p-age-15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
(£T AGRIP ON APRIL Frol.S { 1'1AN, 7: REALLY YOIJRSEL~ 11M! HAD YOU CJJING Tfi£R[, HU-1 )Ot)R[ ST7LL PATTrJJ PAJ? S[£J AU TH£ GUYS I 

..
C. SWT7, Cf::RRJRAL 
ON /HE FWO~ •'-II

IN TI-lE ARHY! 
~S5ED 1/P UK£....

LOOK IN THE 

, 
PAl_/ PAT? STI't.. SANE .I 
f11RROR I YOUR£ 
Campus 
FRIDAY Last day for course discontinuance 3 p.m.: Tennis, NDW vs. Ohio State, Courtney Courts 
3:30 p.m.: Philosophy Colloquium, "Constitutional Privacy," by Prof. John Robinson, ND, commentator: Prof. Robert Rodes, ND, Library Lounge 
6:30p.m.: Starburst-High School All­Star Basketball Classic, ACC girls at 6:30 and boys at 8:15, tickets $5, to benefit 
SpecialOlympics 
7:30 p.m.: Friday Night Film Series, "Dawn of the Dead," 1979, color, 140 minutes, directed by George Romero, USA Annenberg Auditorium 
8 p.m.: SMC Performing Arts Series ­North Carolina Dance Theater, O'Laughlin Hall, for tickets, call 284-4626 
8: 15 p.m. : Dept. of Music Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington Hall, Tickets required, call 239-6352 
SATURDAY 
9-10 a.m.: First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation, Corby Hall Chapel, Blessed Sacrament exposed. all welcome 
. 

1 p.m.: Tennis, NDW vs. Southern Illi­nois University, Edwardsville, Courtney Courts 
1 p.m.: Baseball, ND vs. Univ. of Wis­consin, Madison, Jake Kline Field 
2 p.m.: Varsity Softball, SMC vs. In­
diana  University,  Bloomington,  and  
Purdue  University,  Indianapolis,  SMC  
Softball Field  

7 -9 p.m.: SMC Opening Reception for Senior comprehensives III, all galleries, Little Theatre Lobby 
9 p.m. -2 a.m.: 3rd Annual Charity Ball, featuring The Law and the Pat Hyden Jazz Quartet, at the South Dining Hall, tickets are $8 per person or $10 per couple 
SUNDAY 11 a.m.: Spanish Mass, by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Farley Hall Chapel 12 p.m.: Baseball, ND vs. Univ. of Wis­consin, Madison, Jake Kline Field 
4 p.m.: Dept. of Music Concert, Cham­ber Music Recital with members of the South Bend Symphony, Washington Hall 
7:30p.m.: Concert, Huey Lewis, ACC, $16.50 

Saturday is Cindy Har­vey's 19th Birthday. Wish her a happy one. Call # 2736 or stop by at 342 PW. 
"Hi guys, it's my B'day." "Really no applause." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Make lace 4 Mallet 9 Lupino of 
films 12 Above 14 Addicts 15 Indigo 16-Lisa 17 " ... for the 
sky-" 18 Cease 19 Mollifies 21 Wharves 22 Avocado 25 In favor of 26 Paddle 27 Container 30 -Amin 32 Matchmaker 34 12/24 or 
12/31 
35 Film hit from 
down under 39-Grande 40 Harbors 41 "-the ram­
parts ... " 

4'1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
42 Shamir's land:  All Rights Reserved  
abbr.  
43 Goof  5 Quality  
44 Assad's land:  6 Left-hand page  
abbr.  7 Poetic  
46 "The Muppet  palindrome  
Show" star  8 Hallucinogenic  
53 Medicinal  9 Mediate  
plant  1 0 Fashion name  
55 Bicuspid  11 Swiss  
neighbor  mountains  
56 Walked on  13 Calm  
57 Storehouse  15 Gobi's site  
59 Mandolin's  20 Past  
cousin  21 Out of sight  
60 Clerical  23 Boxing ring  
garments  item  
61 Attack  24 Recompensed  
62 Leg joint  28 Affirm  
63 Affirmative  29 Once known as  
64 Hallow  30 Rainbow  
65 AMA members  31 Certain  37 College  50 Circular  
DOWN 1 Fla. seaport 2 Coral reef  handles 32 Cloud formations 33 Final: abbr.  building 38 Va. port 44 Bed coverings 45 Still  51 Weasel kin 52 Bengal butters 53 Remain 54 First name  
3 Of timbre 4 Segovia's  35 Dernier­36 La Scala  47 Remnants 48 Kid  in mystery 57 Wane  
instrument  offering  49 Kinds  58-Aviv  



..... ., 


orts 
Friday, April 3, 1987 -page 16 
Bookstore drives on despite stormy weather 
By PETE SKIKO I had three points," said the 
Sports Writer senior after shooting a meager 3-17 from the field. "I hadn't 
The true grit of the hardy scored since I was a freshman. Notre Dame Bookstore Basket­The boxing was just a warm-up ball player was severely tested for this moment." yesterday, as near-blizzard Flying Irish center Tom conditions, a wind-chill factor DuPre, a former varsity player in the single digits and long for the Air Force, scored 10 games were the rule on the points and ripped down 11 third day of preliminary con­rebounds in the win. tests. In what was probably the 
longest game of the tourna­
But most of the players heard ment thus far, Puss disarmed complaining before their the Loaded Guns, 24-22, in just games did so with barely detec­over an hour and 40 minutes. table smiles on their faces, Things went smoothly until the secretly eager to ·brave the score reached 20-all, and then deplorable weather conditions an imaginary lid seemed to that have become standard cover both baskets at fare each year of the 16-year­Bookstore Court £10. Puss cap­old tourney. tain Jim Vizzini explained the 
And once the sweatshirts, game's length. wool hats, and high tops were donned, the weather helped to "It was cold and snowy, and produce some incredible ef­I was tired," said Vizzini, who forts --and some exercises in shot a somewhat-less-than­futility. stellar 2-for-7 on the day.
On Bookstore Court £9, Ham­"Plus, near the end, thingsmering Hank, Mike Ditka, and were getting physical inside, Three Other Guys who Can't and we can't handle the roughHold a Title put up a good fight stuff. That definitely affected but bowed to the Flying Irish, our play late in the game." 21-12. Tom "Hammerin' Hank" In some other impressiveHayman, who lost in the semi­performances, Mike Debot finals of the junior welter­shot 9-for-15 from the field and weight division of the Bengal pulled down 16 boards as Team Bouts this year after taking the £27 beat Team £516 in a battle title last year, seemed elated
The action was fast and the snow was furious of censored s(J_uads, and Andy
after the game. 

in Thursday's Bookstore Basketball action on 
see NUMBERS, page 13
"Sure. we lost the game, but the Lyons courts, as the Not Ready For Prime The Whitfield Time Basketball Players scrap for a rebound against Chicks and Booze. Chicks and Booze won, 21-15. 
Searcy hopes to break 47-second mark in weekend meet 
By MOLLY MAHONEY meter relay. So far in the out­typical transition from high NCAA's, and a strong crew of hurdlers who have recorded Sports Writer door season, Searcy has school to college life and looks hurdlers and sprinters led by times of 14.3 in the 110-meter recorded times of 49.23 at the for improvement in the future. Robert Kennedy and LaMont highs.
Tomorrow the Notre Dame Willie Williams Invitational "It has been a big adjust­Frazier. Bowling Green is led by Dave track team will travel to and 49.1 at the Notre Dame In­ment," said Searcy, "I've got­The Hoosiers are strong in Mora, an NCAA qualifier in Bloomington to participate in vitational. ten the chance to travel with field events as well, with pole cross country who will run in three dual meets against In­This meet is of special impor­the team and gain experience vaulter Danny Burton clearing both the 1500 and 5000-meter diana, Cincinnati and Bowling tance to Searcy because in high for the future." 17-3 in an earlier meet and shot­runs. Green. school he had narrowed his Searcy and the Irish prepare putter Rick Jordan expected to The dual nature of this meet 
The Irish will receive the choices of the schools recruit­to face an Indiana squad that be a serious challenge to Notre varies from the usual quadran­
toughest competition from In­ing him down to Notre Dame 
is second in the Big Ten and Dame's Tom Kraus. gular meet format, but it won't diana and will need a good day and Indiana. Ultimately he won the Indiana Intercollegiate "Indiana has a terrific be as complicated as it sounds. from each member of the team, chose to run for the Irish. 
meet in February. The Hosiers team," said Piane. "They will The meet will progress in much including freshman speedster "Yan is a real hardworker, also had several members challenge us from the same way, only it will be Yan Searcy. both on the track and off," said qualify for NCAA Indoor everywhere." complicated by the use of a 
Searcy, a native of Kokomo, Irish head coach Joe Piane. Championships in March. Cincinnati will be a threat as unique scoring system which Ind., is looking to break the 47 "He puts a lot of effort into the The Irish will face Mark well in the iumps and sprints. gives each team three separate second mark in either the 400-things he does." Deady, a second-place finisher The team has two long jumpers 
see SEARCY, page 11

meter dash or a leg of the 1600-Searcy has had to make the in the 1500-meter run at the who regularly jump 24 feet and 


Thank you, Father Rocca, for my job well done 
I'd like to say thank you to all those involved the decision to censor the names of teams involved in Bookstore Basketball XVI. I'm in favor of freedom of expression and creativity just as much as anybody else. The reason I say thank you is much more personal. 
No longer will I have to drag myself across campus to wade through the list of a particular day's results and next day's schedule in search of words and phrases that might offend the weak­spirited. Last year when technical difficulties at The Observer relented, allowing us to print results and schedules, I went through this routine every night, usually well after midnight. I would sit in front of a terminal and replace offending phrases with ellipses. 
This year, thanks to Assistant Vice President for Student Services Father Peter Rocca, I don't have to worry about it. Why? They've taken the editorial decision on what to print and what not to print right out of my hands. 
"(The names) were unfit for publishing and they were terribly gross," said Rocca in an article in The Observer on Monday. 
Thanks for taking control of my job, Father. 
You see, what has basically happened here is that The Observer, which has had a long history of maintaining editorial independence, has been censored through the back door. I can't print what I don't have. (No folks, I haven't seen an uncen­sored list so don't ask me for a copy.) By keeping what has been deemed offensive by the powers that be out of my sight, I don't have to make editorial decisions. Or don't I? 
Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 

From what I have gathered in the last few days, the decision of what to censor has seemed arbi­trary at best. If you have Beer Flatulence From Hell, your name is OK. But if you've got Condoms From Hell, keep them in your wallet because your team has been assigned a number. 
If you're hungry you can have Chicken Patties, SMC Chicks and Three Other Things ND Guys Love to Eat Daniel Boone, Father Sorin and Three Other Guys can eat Beaver In The Wilderness but if you're looking for Violated Donuts, you have to look for a selection number. 
It just doesn't make sense that a team named 4 Nicators and a Married Man was cut, but 4 Guys Who Date SMC and a Virgin makes it. 
In the first night of Bookstore, I had to cut a few teams down either because of length of name (remember this for next year: if your name is snort, 1t has a better chance of being printed) or something that might be construed as objectional. Sorry, they were funny. 
The point is not everything makes it into the paper. I do check the list nightly. My parents get the paper and while they're interested in the names of the teams (two years ago, my mom took a liking to Your Mother Does Deep Knee Bends In A Cucumber Patch), I know they and a lot of other people out there who get The Observer aren't amused by college humor. 
The point is, someone, namely me, does edit the list. I don't need any help, thank you. Judging by what made it and what didn't, I think the editing should be left to someone with a little experience. 
Oh, well, at least I can get to bed earlier. 



