
,. 
Morrissey Hall protest -page 4 

VOL. XXI, NO. 127 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving ~otre Dame and Saint "ar)·'s 

Soviets offer removal 
Library sign signals name 
of short-range missiles change 

at meeting with Shultz 
Associated Press in tactical weapons and con­vention forces if medium­MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbac­range missiles are withdrawn. 
to Hesburgh 
By JIM RILEY 
hev offered Tuesday to elimi­Charges of espionage by both News Editor 
nate Soviet short-range nu­sides have surrounded the clear weapons in Europe, Shultz visit, but nuclear armsThe Memorial Library has which the official news agency dominate his agenda. U.S. andbeen renamed the Theodore Tass said went beyond arms Soviet arms experts have heldM. Hesburgh Library. 
control proposals he made last separate meetings in an at­Workers attached the let­week. tempt to narrow differences.
tering to the buildings west It quoted the Soviet leader asand south sides Monday and saying to Secretary of State A dispute over the 130 short­Tuesday. 
George Shultz during a 4-hour range Soviet weapons hasThe renaming of the li­meeting: "What are you afraid delayed an agreement onbrary was supposed to be a of? We are for a reliable agree­medium-range missiles.
surprise for University ment with the most stringent State Department spokes­President Father Theodore and all-embracing control." man Charles Redman calledHesburgh, according to Gorbachev said during a visit the Shultz-Gorbachev meetingRichard Conklin, director of to Czechoslovakia last week "very intensive, serious,public relations and infor­that the Soviets would be will­business-like."
mation. He said the library ing to discuss reductions in was supposed to be renamed tactical, or short-range, nu­Before it began, Shultzduring the Board of Trustees clear weapons apart from handed Gorbachev a new invi­meeting May 8. He did not negotiations on eliminating tation from President Reagansay why the lettering was medium-range missiles from for a summit in Washington,placed on the building at this Europe. Washington says the but the Soviet leader said:time. 
Soviet advantage in tactical "generally, without reason, I missiles is 130-0. do not go anywhere, particu­"Back in 1977, the trustees larly America." 
decided the library would be The effect of the latest pro­''This cannot be just anamed after Father Hes­posal was not clear immedi­stroll," he said. "When I willburgh at an appropriate ately. The two sides have been be nearing retirement, then Itime," Conklin said. "But working toward an agreement may travel just for pleasure,the time was left up to the on weapons with a range of 600-but now I need business."
trustees," he added. 
3,000 miles, but Gorbachev's of­Gorbachev, 56, has stead­Conklin said the library fer applies to those with a fastly resisted Reagan's invita­was dedicated at the com­range of 350-600 miles. tion, even though the twopletion of its construction, leaders decided at their 1985and he does not expect there NATO allies in Europe have meeting in Geneva to hold sum­to be a formal re-dedication expressed concern about vul­mits in both Washington andceremony. 
nerability to Soviet superiority Moscow. 



Four more guards brought home as Marine scandal grows 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The investi­gation of an espionage scandal that has rocked the Marine Corps' elite embassy guard force broadened Tuesday with the announcement that four guards formally stationed in communist-bloc countries were being recalled from Austria for questioning. 
Robert Sims, chief Pentagon spokesman, said the Marines, now assigned to the U.S. em­bassy in Vienna, were suspected of possible improper fraternization with foreign citizens while posted to other embassies in Warsaw Pact na­tions. 
The four will return to the Quantico, Va., Marine Base, where the espionage inquiry is being conducted. 
A fifth Marine is being replaced for unrelated viola­tions of "local security regula­tions" in Vienna, Sims said, and a sixth was recalled to ap­pear as a witness at a pre-trial hearing Wednesday for Sgt. Clayton Lonetree, the guard whose arrest touched off the current investigation. 
Sims also said the Marine Corps has tightened its screen­ing procedures for new guard recruits, and he confirmed that an internal Pentagon study had recommended changes in the supervision of embassy guards. 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, meantime, said the Pentagon might consider assigning more married Marines, accompanied by their wives, to guard duty instead of relying on young, single ser­vicemen. 
And a lawyer for Lonetree said he was seriously consider­ing an attempt to move the espionage case against hir: client into a civilian court and wanted to summon Arthur Hartman, former U.S. ambas­sador to the Soviet Union, as a witness. 
Sims told a news briefing he could not release the identities of the Marines who had been recalled nor disclose at which embassies the men had served before Vienna. He stressed that 


Intersection near campus set for improvements 
By MARIA DOTI Staff Reporter 
Improvements on the inter­section of Juniper, Eddy, An­gela and Edison streets, south of Notre Dame's campus, are scheduled for completion by this July, according to county officials. 
"No traffic light will be in­stalled," said Richard Jasinski, president of the Board of County Commissioners. "But the intersection will be paved and restriped in time for the opening of the International Summer Special Olympics." 
Rex Rakow, director of Se­curity at Notre Dame, says he doesn't think a light is neces­sary at this intersection. 
"Traffic flows smoothly," he said. "If you drive through there during rush hour, of course it will be blocked up. But not for more than 10 or 15 minutes." 
Rakow said the intersection is manned by police officers during large events. "People are in and out in 15 to 20 minutes," he said. 
"We're expecting about 60,000 people for the opening ceremonies of Special Olym­pics," Rakow said. "About the same population as a football game." 
Mayor Roger Parent recently urged county commis­sioners to install a traffic light and fix up the intersection. 
"It's dangerous, and it's ug­ly," Parent said. "It's not as if we're talking about a multi­million dollar project. The money is there. The job just needs to be done." 
According to Parent, the traffic light proposal is on hold partly because 86 percent of the land containing the intersec­tion belongs to the county. The remainder is in the city's juris­diction, he said. 
"People don't want to see a major thoroughfare running through campus," explained Robert Richardson, county en­gineer. 

none had been formally charged with wrongdoing. 
Lonetree, who has been charged with espionage, was arrested in December at the Vienna embassy. He had trans­ferred to the Austrian capital last fall after working in 1985 and 1986 as a guard at the Mos­cow embassy. 
The Marine Corps has for­mally accused Lonetree and a second former guard, Cpl. Ar­nold Bracy, of allowing Soviet agents inside the Moscow em-
see MARINES, page 6 

Happy Easter 


This is the last issue of The Observer before Easter. Publication will resume next Wednesday, April 22. The Observer staff wishes every­one a very happy Easter. 
The Observer Wednesday, Aprill5, 1987-page 2 


In Brief 
Twelve new Catholics were welcomed into the Catholic Church Tuesday at Sacred Heart Church, accor­ding to Sister Pat McCabe, director of religious instruction at Notre Dame. Robin Bolinger, Robert Barrett, Jake Frego, Joseph House, and Matthew Johnson were among those who were confirmed at the mass. Mary Ann Mar­tinez, Nick Mathioudakis, Shawn O'Brien, Stacey Peters, Jill Schirmer, Scott Thomas and Jeff VanWie also became members of the Church. -The Observer 
The ND secretary who was struck by a car Saturday, Karen Monroe, is still listed in critical condition with a head injury, according to her nurse and supervisor at St. Joseph's Hospital of South Bend. Monroe, a secretary who works at the student health center on campus, suf­fered severe head injuries when she was struck while walking on Juniper Rd. east of Stepan Center -The Obser­ver. 
A storage tank leaking acid in Gary, Ind. spewed a cloud of fumes over the city Tuesday, injuring 93 people and forcing the evacuation of about 1,000 more, officials said. St. Mary Medical Center spokesman Frederick Ott said the Gary hospital had treated 50 spill victims and the hospital's Hobart facility had treated eight more. One or two patients were expected to be held overnight, he said. 
-Associated Press 


Of Interest 
"Communicating in Close Relations" is the title of a workshop on communication to be sponsored by the University Counseling Center, tonight at 6:30p.m. in room 300 of the Student Health Center. This workshop is for individuals in a variety of close relationships, such as couples, friends, spouses, or roommates. -The Observer 
"Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form" is the title of a presentation to be given by Kitty Arnold of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland. -The Observer. 
Finals are coming and the University Counseling Center is sponsoring a two-part series after break entitled "Surviving Finals Week." The first workshop, focusing on stress management, will be Tuesday, April21 at 6:30p.m. in room 300 of the University Counseling Center. The second, on Tuesday, April28 at 6:30p.m. also in room 300 of the University Counseling Center, will focus on test anxiety. -The Observer 

Weather 
Income _taxes are due today, and the weather ts suitably gloomy. Showers and thunderstorms are likely today, and the temperature will be in the low to mid 60s. Tonight and tomorrow will not be much better, with a fifty percent chance of more rain. The low will be in the middle to upper 40s and the highs will 

be in the middle to upper 50s. -Associated Press 

Deaign Editor ................. Chris Donnelly Accent Layout .................... Carolyn Rey Design Auiatant ............. Andy Fenoglio Typist ................................ Esther Ivory Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ...................................... Gina Farabargh ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor .............. Chris Hasbrook Newa Editor...................... Jane Kravcik SMC Day Editor ........... Sandy Cerimele Copy Editor ......................... Joe Markey Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Sparta Copy Editor ............ Brian O'Gara Sparta Wedneaday Design .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout .......... Kathleen Moran Photographer................... Suzanne Poch Accent Copy Editor.............. Matt Sitzer 
Tile Oblenn-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oblenn-is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Choice to go to Innsbruck becomes harder to make 
I was ten years old when I realized Vienna waits for me, although the call was located a little further west. It came in the form of letters and postcards from my sister who was studying in Innsbruck, Austria, as a sophomore at Notre Dame. She came home with stories of beer gar­dens, skiing in the Alps, and weekend trips to Rome. Four years later my brother also went to Innsbruck, returning with equally inviting stories and an earring in his left ear. I decided this was definitely for me. 
The year my brother left for Innsbruck was also the year I started high school, already with the goal in mind of going to Innsbruck six years later. My brother and sister had really struggled through introductory German here, so I enrolled in German in high school on their advice. In four years I gained moderate proficiency in the language and a love for the country and its culture. I devoured every bit of information I could get about Austria from lan­guage club activities, books, movies, and dis­cussions with my high school German teacher, an Austrian. I saw Amadeus four times and quit counting my screenings of The Sound of Music after the dozen mark. 
The only thing standing between me and the 
final realization of my dream was one short 
year here. Or so I thought. 
I guess I should do a little explaining. You 
see, I'm what most of us generously refer to as 
a "Bender." I've lived in South Bend for 
eighteen years and to top it off, I'm a faculty 
brat. So it really wasn't that out of control for 
me to realize, as a: ten year old, that the 
probabiltity of my coming to Notre Dame was 
high. It also follows that I would be more anx­
ious than your average Domer to escape the 
shadow of that great Golden Dome. 
My father went to Notre Dame and then 
returned to teach. Four of my brothers and 
sisters graduated from or are attending Notre 
Dame. I thought I knew what it was all about. 
My father used to lull me to sleep to the alma 
mater. I knew about the tailgaters and the foot­
ball games. I knew about SYR's and mud pits. 
I remember the alcohol riots, Molarity, and 
when Five Points didn't deserve its name be­
cause of traffic. 
What no one could tell me about was what would be my Notre Dame. No one could tell me that I would be able to get ready for a hall formal in only half an hour because I was run­ning around buying peach schnapps and reserv­ing hotel rooms. No one could tell me I would be in the Observer office until 3:00 a.m. dis­cussing Bambi's sex and other mysteries of the universe. No one could tell me what it would feel like to beat North Carolina. No one could tell me I would actually like it here. 

As the semester winds down, I keep reali.zing that I won't be here next year. When I return, my friends who are juniors and seniors now won't be here. My friends who are freshman and sophomores will have had a year's worth of experiences that I won't be familiar with. I won't know the other half of the students on campus. Of course, I will be seeing Europe and having many adventures that the students here won't have had. My close relationships with people here will be replaced by ones with my fellow Innsbruckers and hopefully some Austrians. 
I obviously feel that the benefits outweigh the costs in this situation, for I am leaving for Austria in August. I've just realized that al­though things may go according to plan, they are never going to turn out exactly as expected. 
Even knowing that I will be back in a year, it won't be easy to leave this place that has been a part of me for so long and that I have become a part of over the past year. I guess it will just make coming back almost as fun as going away. 

Do you want to have fun? Do you want to meet people? Do you want to get paid? 
The Alumni-Senior Club is still ac­cepting applications for staff mem­bers until April 21st. Applications may be picked up at the Student Ac­tivities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. 
(Must be 21 by September 9, 1987 


------~ --~-·  ------------~·­ -~------~~--­--~·-­ ~­ 
The Observer  Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 3  



West Germany questions Soviets about increased radiation levels 
Associated Press 
BONN, West Germany-West Germany said Tuesday it will ask Moscow about higher levels of radiation in Europe that some experts believe may have been caused by a nuclear power plant accident in the So­viet Union. 
West Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Norway and France on Tuesday confirmed varying increases in atmo­spheric radiation last mon.th. The Soviet government demed it was the source of the emis­sions, which officials said caused no damage or injuries. 
The Soviets were criticized after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster for failing to quickly report the power plant acci­dent, which killed 31 Soviets and spewed radiation around the world nearly one year ago. 
Officials in Bonn said unus­
ual levels of the radioactive ele­
ment iodine 131 and four to five 



NAME THE 
10 

times the normal amounts of xenon gas were measured in West Germany between March 9 and March 15. 
Environment Ministry spokesman Claudia Conrad said the radiation posed no health threat, but the govern­ment asked the Soviet Union for further information. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Klaus-Hermann Ringwald said the request was "on its way" to the Soviets but had not yet been formally presented. 
"The experts are all saying it was almost certainly a nu­clear power accident," Heinz­Joerg Haury, a spokesman for the government-financed In­stitute for Radioactivity and Environmental Research in Munich, told The Associated Press. 
A western diplomatic source in Moscow said Tuesday that the Soviets were asked about a possible radiation leak after some Scandinavian countries registered an increase in emis­sions last month. The source, who spoke on condition he not be further identified, said the Soviets denied any such leak. 
The source said it was un­likely a nuclear power plant ac­cident had occurred, since it would have released many ra­dioactive isotopes, not just iodine 131. 
In Moscow, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said the Soviet Union's radiation detection equipment is ''functioning well and no discharges of radioac­tive emissions have been regis­tered on the territory of the So­viet Union." 
Erich Oberhausen, chairman of the Bonn-based Radiation Protection Commission, said a government study indicated that the radiation came from a minor Soviet nuclear plant ac­cident or an underground nu­clear test. 

LEGENDS OF ROCI< &.. ROLL AND WIN! 
Clue Set #1 

Here is the first set of clues to match with The 
Hot Shot Legends of Rock & Roll Poster inserted 
into this newspaper last week. (If you missed the 
poster. a limited supply is available at the news­
paper office.) 

Here's What You Should Do: This sketch represents the left half of the poster with outlines of the faces. Each face outline is numbered. Match each outline to the poster, using the clues listed below to determine the names of the first 21 Rock Artists featured. 
In next week's newspaper, you will be given the remaining 17 face outlines numbered, as well as the second set of clues to complete the puzzle. 
~'" (Set #1) 

1. 
HIS PARENTS WERE OZZIE AND HARRIET 

2. 
HIS BAND GAVE OFF GOOD VIBRATIONS 


3. 
1!4 OF A GROUP, 1/6 OF A TON 


4. 
MICK AND KEITH WERE HIS MATES 

5. 
BERRY GORDY WROTE "LONELY TEARDROPS" FOR HIM 

6. 
HIS PAL WAS JOHNNY ROTIEN 


7. 
HIS BIGGEST HIT WAS "BE-BOP-A-LULA" 

8. 
HE RECORDED "HERE, MY DEAR" TO MEET ALIMONY PAYMENTS. 

9. 
FIRST LEAD SINGER OF THE DRIFTERS 

1
0. HE WROTE "I SHOT THE SHERIFF" 


11 . FORMER DJ WHO MADE IT BIG 

12. HE SANG "SWEET HOME ALABAMA" BUT WAS BORN IN FLORIDA 
13. 
NO RELATION TO WILLIAM F. 

14. 
"YOU SEND ME" WAS THE FIRST OF HIS MANY HITS 


~J~ 15. HE WENT FROM THE BYRDS TO I ~ THE FLYING BURRITO BROTHERS 
16. 
SHE PLAYED SECOND FIDDLE TO DIANA ROSS 

17. 
HE OFFERED NO CURE FOR THE "SUMMERTIME BLUES" 

18. 
HE WROTE HIS HIT "SPLISH SPLASH" IN 12 MINUTES 




~ 
19. DJ WHO CLAIMED TO HAVE ·~··~II'\\-·" 
COINED THE PHRASE
·..u,..• 
"ROCK & ROLL" 

-. 
20. HE MADE HIS MARK SITIING ON 
)I, THE DOCK OF THE BAY 
21. HIS BAND WAS THE "CRICKETS" 

Hot Shot'" Schnapps. 42 Proof, Produced by The Hot Shot DIStillery. OwensbOro. KY C>1987 

Retired Soviet officers to visit Notre Dame 
By SHARON HEGG Staff Reporter 
A group of former high ranking military officers from the Soviet Union will visit the University of Notre Dame on April 23 and 24 to participate in seminars sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies. 
According to John Gil­ligan, director of the in­stitute, the former generals and admirals, will partici­pate in a three panel discus­sion on relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. 
One panel consists of three 
retired United Stated mili­
tary people, another panel 
consists of three former am­
bassadors, and the third 
panel is made up of four or 
five students, Gilligan ex­
plained 
"We happen to be the only 
University in the country to 
have Soviet military people 
discuss openly, the policies 
of the Soviet Union and the 
United States, "he said. 
"Gorbachev is opening the 
JF)HILOSOPHY 
Soviet Union to an unprece­dented degree." 
According to Gilligan, recent developments in U.S.­Soviet arms control talks en­hance the timeliness of the Soviet visit. "This is an his­toric moment," Gilligan said. "Secretary Gorbachev has made proposals about the removal of intermediate range missiles from the European theatre which are remarkably similar to Pres­ident Reagan's 'zero option' suggestion of several years ago. The opportunity to dis­cuss the significance of such developments with respon­sible military leaders is an extraordinary 'window of opportunity'." 
The panel discussions will 
take place on Friday, April 
24 at 10 a.m., 2p.m., and 4:30 
p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
The Soviet officers will ar­rive in Washington D.C. on April 19, where they will meet with former admirals and generals of the United States to discuss the current military and diplomatic policies of the two nations. 


JF)OLITICS & IICONOMICS 

ACONCHNTRATION FOR STUDENTS MAJORING IN PHILOSOPHY, GOVERNMENT AND BCONOMIC'i DEALING WITH THOSii ARiiAS IN WHIOI THii THRiili DISCIPLINES OVIiRLAP. THE PROGRAM IS DESIGNED TO FOSTER DISCIPLINED INTHLLBCTUAL DEBATii AND INTiiROIANGii AMONG THiiORiiTICALLY RliFLBCTIVIi STUDENTS AND FACULTY IN THii THRiili DISCIPLINiiS. 
FOR DliTAILS SliE: PROF.Ii. A. GOiiRNER, <f3-f DBCIO (239-7383 or 233-16-f7) PROF. C. F. DliLANiiY, 310 DBC10 (239-6653) PROF.Ii. LORiiNZ, <f15 DBC10 (239-7590) PROF L. J. ROOS, <f2-f DBCIO (239-7556) PROF. L. SIMON, 303 DEClO (239-7281 or 288-5-413) PROF. C. WILBiiR, <f11 DBCIO (239-5168) 
CONSULT ONE OF THii PROFiiSSORS LISTiiD ABOVIi WliLL BliFORii PRE-RiiGISTRATION, SINCii DliMAND MAY liXCiiED THii PLACiiS A V AILABLii 
of the Castle 


. ........ s Hairstyling · · $6student $8.50 cumplete 
_._ · cut atyle 
MINUfES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-6312 217·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
............... ·~.......s......... 
C.•t• .........•l••t... .. Not H ....• 
._... A "L ll.... •• IWIW..._........,_, 




Surviving Finals Week 
a workshop on managing stress during finals week 
Tuesday, April 21 6:30 pm University Counseling Center Room 300 
Sponsored by the University Counseling Center 
The Observer Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 4 



Morrissey Hall residents band together early this mor­ning in the Morrissey Hall lobby to protest the firing 

Shapiro places at humor contest 
By TIM O'KEEFE stand-up humor competition at diverse subjects as Canadian Copy Editor the Western Humor Confer­humor and Jewish humor. ence in Phoenix, Arizona. The Shapiro attended the confer­
A Notre Dame professor fa­competition involved each con­ence to gain information for his mous for his constant barrage testant presenting a five to classes. of jokes in class recently took eight minute act. his show on the road to a humor More than 1,000 people atten­"I'm teaching a new course contest in Arizona. ded the conference, traveling on popular culture, and humor 
Samuel Shapiro, associate from as far away as Russia. is certainly one aspect of professor of history, won fifth The conference included both popular culture. I learned a lot place out of a field of 27 in a contests and seminars on such of jokes there," he said. 

Hall presidents receive letter about alcohol at their first HPC meeting 
By JIM RILEY  The  letter  emphasized  the  and serve dinner at the picoic  
News Editor  Buzz Bus and the Designated  site, according to Yeager. 
Driver Program.  Tim Salmon, co-chairman of  
In their first formal meeting,  Wimbiscus  said  too  many  the  HPC,  encouraged  hall  
this year's hall council mem­ people blame the alcohol policy  presidents to use the $500 each  
bers received copies of a letter  for  the  current  situation  on  hall had been allotted for use  
concerning  campus  alcohol  campus. "The policy is here to  in  sponsoring  non-alcoholic  
abuse.  stay," he said. "It is our re­ events. He said approximately  
The letter was drafted by last  sponsibility  to  learn  to  deal  16 halls have yet to use up their  
year's hall council.  The hall  with it."  allotments.  
presidents will be distributing  A representative from Spe­ 
the letters to members of their  A representative from  stu­ cial Olympics asked each dorm  
dorms  during  the  next  few  dent  government  announced  to sponsor an athlete for this  
weeks.  plans for a mass and picnic in  summer. The sponsorship fees  
Jim Wimbiscus, a member of  honor of University President  for interested dorms would be  
last  year's hall  council,  dis- Father Theodore Hesburgh. He  $100 each.  
cussed the letter with the new  said the event is planned for  Two  representatives  from  
council members. He said the  May 1. He expects that most of  "Bike  Aid,"  a  cross-country  
letter is meant to set forth the  the student body will attend.  bike marathon, made  an  ap­ 
HPC's position on campus al- William  Hickey,  director  of  peal for financial assistance.  


Morrissey residents protest firing of RA 
By JIM RILEY were not told why Gallo was fired.
News Editor 
Gallo was not in his room 

More than 100 Morrissey 1 ...... early this morning and could residents staged a protest early not be reached for comment. this morning following the John Rogers, a Morrissey firing of a resident assistant. Hall resident, said Gallo will 
Steve Gallo, a third-floor res­move into Flanner Hall today. ident assistant, was fired Mon­Rogers said Gallo had a day and ordered to leave the hearing with Associate Vice dorm by today, hall residents President for Residence Life 
said. John Goldrick. When word spread of the 
firing, residents staged a Gallo only told a few close protest outside the dorm at friends that he was fired Mon­about 1 a.m. day I]ight, Rogers said. Word 
The protest later moved in­circulated about the firing side the hall lobby, where it Tuesday night, resulting in this ended at about 1:50 a.m. morning's protest. 
Morrissey Hall Rector Fa­During the protest, residents ther Thomas Streit declined to took turns speaking on behalf release the resident assistant's of Gallo, saying the resident as­
name or discuss the reasons for sistant did a good job and didn't the firing, saying the "matter deserve to be fired. was between myself and him." Several residents also 
"It's an employment issue, protested the timing of Gallo's not a disciplinary sanction," firing, which came about four added Streit. weeks before graduation. 
"If (Gallo) was supposed to As a resident assistant, Gallo be cracking the whip, then 
is considered an employee of they're right (to fire him)," the Office of Student Affairs. 
said one resident. "But (Gallo) Several residents said they 
enforced the law." 

SObering Advice;: can save al~;:cr: 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive ': · 

1r~() '".,., 113~e1llt~elr lla1111f ., 

,1()UIIr lrWiiIll., 
"'\iilk~e-y Jl~()lfllll:E
T

cobol abuse in light of last University Food Services, has y""ea•r•'s•d•r•u•n•k•d•ri•v•in•g•t•ra•g•e•d•ie•s•.-a•g•r•ee•d-to•c•lo•s•e•t•h•e•d•in.in•g•h•a•l•ls• r,!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~s ENIoR M N "!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
0

1 

w;y;;;J WORL~u!~E!!P~aG. ~~~~~TION® 
From An Tostal until graduation,
~ NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
the Senior Class is sponsoring
JAKE ~~::E.. ROBERTS 

an event EVERY day. 
KAMALA
VS THE UGANDAN 
WITH MR. FUJI 
Senior Month booklets will be available
Lumberjack Match 
when you register for Senior Week Activities.
No Escaping the Ring! 
GEORGEA;!=~L·STEELE 
vs Sunday, May 10th Weddingless Reception $5.00
RANov·-:_~c;.~oSAVAGE 
WITH ELIZABETH Monday, May 11th Dr. Bop & the Headliners $4.00 
Tuesday, May 12th Canoeing in St. Pat's Park $7.00 5 OTHER GREAT MATCHES. RICKY "THE DRAGON" STEAMBOAT, 
Wednesday, May 13th Chicago Trip (Lake Michigan Partyliner) THE HART FOUNDATION, 
$26.00 bus and boat $10.00 bus only HERCULES, THE BRITISH BULLDOGS, THE CAN AM CONNECTION, AND MOREl 
REGISTRATION: 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE, SEARS (UP MALL & ELICART), ST. JOSEPH 
Tuesday, April 21st and Wednesday, April 22nd 
BANK (MAIN OFFICE}, NIGHTWINDS (NORTH VILLAGE MALL, 100 CENTER, NILES}, JUST FOR THE RECORD (T & C SHOPPING CENTRE}, ELKHART TRUTH AND SUPERSOUNDS 
7 p.m. -9 p.m. Lafortune Lobby & Haggar Lobby 
(ELKHART). WATCH WWF WRESTLING ON WSBT FRI. 11:30 P~ & SAT. 10:30 PM. 


-
The Observer Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 5 


The ObservertSuzanne Poch

Backstage Experience 
Working behind the scenes at Washington Hall, Brian Loeffler, a junior in the department of Communication and Theatre, puts together costumes for the April29-May 3 performances ofShake­speare's "Macbeth." 




Bond denies charges by wife of cocaine use 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA· Civil rights vet­eran Julian Bond yesterday angrily blasted news reports about allegations by his estranged wife that he uses cocaine, saying he does not use drugs and has not committed any crimes. 
"What is at issue here is a family affair of concern only to those who are intimately in­volved," Bond said in a state­ment issued to reporters. He blasted "those professional scavengers and gossip mongers who have made life hell for innocent people whose only crime is that their last name is Bond." 
Bond, a former state senator from Atlanta, left abruptly after reading the statement and refused to answer any questions. 
But he appeared later on a radio talk show to discuss the matter in more detail. He said he agreed to be interviewed be­cause his responses would not be edited. 
"I've never used cocaine. Never at all," Bond said. But he said he would not take a drug test. 
He said he did not know the details of the charges made to police by Alice Bond. 
CLASS OF 198s-----. 

Senior Portraits for the Dome Yearbook will be taken Wed­nesday through Friday, April 15-1 7, in the Chicago Room, 3rd Floor Lafortune Sudent Center. 


···k.(~
-~-t 

f~8+\ ~~~1([1 
Take your Picture NOW before your Spring Break tan fades! 
Sign up for your sitting by call­ing 239-7308. 




Senate urges judge to order release of Iran-Contra financial records 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Senate urged a skeptical federal judge on Tuesday to order retired Air Force Maj. General Richard Secord to release foreign bank records believed linked to the Iran-Contra arms deals. 
U.S. District Judge Aubrey Robinson Jr. said he would rule in the case, but he called the order the Senate was seeking "a charade," said the Swiss might reject it and suggested whatever decision he makes will surely be appealed. 
Senate Attorney Michael Davidson said the Tower com­mission, appointed by Presi­dent Reagan to investigate the Iran-Contra affair, had identi­fied Secord's "prominence in global arrangements with respect to shipment of arms to Iran." 
The commission's report also said Secord was involved in a network supporting the Nicaraguan rebels known as Contras. It said contributions appear to have been routed to the Contras through a series of private organizations, some of them linked to Secord­controlled bank accounts by a chart found in the safe of fired National Security Council aide Oliver North. 
The Senate Iran-Contra com­mittee wants the records to learn about "the flow of money through these bank accounts," Davidson said. 
The Senate voted last month to seek a contempt of court citation that would threaten Secord with imprisonment if he did not sign documents giving investigators access to bank records in Switzerland, the Cayman Islands and Panama. 
Secord's attorney, Thomas Green, said Tuesday that such an order would violate the retired general's constitutional protection against self­incrimination. 
"This statement that Gen. Secord is being asked to make under the threat of contempt and threat of imprisonment is nothing more than compelled speech," Green said. 
"It's the equivalent of transporting Mr. Secord to Switzerland or some other foreign destination (and) making him say to bankers 'I consent to release of bank records,"' Green said. 
Judge Robinson told David­son, the Senate lawyer, he had 
problems  with  the  consent  
clause.  
"I  just  have  a  problem  

playing charades," Robinson said. "I have a problem with an order I know is a charade." Davidson said "consent" in 
the statement's context was merely a legal term so "the directive shall be construed as consent" to satisfy Swiss and Cayman Islands law. 
And he said the Swiss aut­horities could refuse to honor the directive, knowing that Secord objected to signing it. 
But Robinson nodded when Davidson argued that the only issue before the judge is the 1970 law empowering Congress to seek court orders directing production of documents. 
Secord's lawyer, Green, sug­gested that the court could defer its decision to give the Senate time to determine if it could obtain the Swiss bank records under a U.S.-Swiss treaty. 
However, Davidson argued that the treaty is only available to prosecutors, not legislative committees. 
The Senate, in a related ef­fort to learn more about Secord's affairs, has voted to request limited immunity from prosecution for two secretaries of Secord companies, Joan Cor­bin and Shirley Napier, in order to compel them to testify before the Senate panel. Robinson granted that request on Mon­day. 


Mexicans develop new technique for treatment of brain ailments 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Brain sur­gery developed in Mexico to treat Parkinson's disease is a dramatic advance that could lead to new treatments for strokes and Alzheimer's disease, but it requires more study because two of the 11 patients who received it have died, a U.S. doctor said Tuesday. 
Abraham Lieberman, chairman of the medical ad­visory board of the Ameri­can Parkinson Disease Association and professor of neurology at New York Uni­versity, went to Mexico last week to examine the patients and said he was enormously encouraged. 
"I think I witnessed his­tory," he said at a news con­ference in his office. "I think this is the approach you're going to take to Alzheimer's, to spinal cord injuries and to strokes." 
He predicted that doctors in the United States would rush to adopt the procedure, in which nerve-like cells from one of the patient's own adrenal glands, located above the kidneys, are transplanted into the brain to replace degenerating brain cells. 
Less than three weeks have passed since the first report of the surgery ap­peared in the New England Journal of Medicine, and George Allen at Vanderbilt University Medical Center inN ashville has already per­formed the operation on one patient there. The patient is in satisfactory condition, and no improvements in her Parkinson's disease have been reported yet. 
New York University is preparing to do its first transplant in May, and other hospitals will likely follow suit, Lieberman said. 
He warned, however, that hasty adoption of the proce­dure could be dangerous. "My fear is that there will be a number of deaths and the government or the states will come in and say 'What is going on here?"' 
Lieberman said one pa-
GF~-------------~ 

Wwn 
We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call : ~uth Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 
tient died from brain seizures 45 days after sur­gery, and although the Mexican doctors, led by Ig­nacio Madrazo, claim the death was not related to the surgery, Lieberman said it is not possible to rule out such a link without further study. 
The patient was given anti-convulsant drugs to prevent seizures, which are known to sometimes follow brain surgery, but the pa­tient had the seizures while taking the drugs, Lieberman said. 
The cause of death of the second patient is not yet known, but autopsy results are on their way to the Mexican doctors. 
Efforts by Swedish re­searchers in recent years to treat Parkinson's disease with brain transplants had failed, but the Mexican re­searchers transplanted larger, acorn-sized pieces of adrenal tissue and put them in a different part of the brain, which could account for their success. 




HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATIE 

-Tim 




The Observer Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 6 

Lynn Giusti shows her expertise on the key­pieces with clarinet and violin accompaniment board in Monday's Student Recital at the An­provided by Patricia DeLee and Dexter nenberg Auditorium in the Suite Museum. Brewster, respectively. 
Giusti, a Notre Dame senior, performed three 
Americans will work 19 more days in 1987 to pay federal income taxes 
Associated Press  haps 10 million Americans were putting off until the last  Batdorf said Tuesday, some may require up to 10 weeks.  
WASHINGTON  -Just when  hours.  Returns  must  be  Through April 3, the IRS had  
you had finished your 1986 return and thought it was safe to forget about taxes for awhile, the Tax Foundation predicted Tuesday that the typical American will have to work another 19 days to pay up for 1987.  postmarked by midnight Wed­nesday. As the deadline approached, financial institutions were doing a booming business in In­dividual Retirement Accounts, which--after these returns--will no longer be universally de­ received more than 58 million returns, and 78 percent of them had resulted in refunds totaling just under $30 billion. For all of 1987, the IRS expects 105.5 million returns. This year's filing season is the last before the big new tax  
Tax Freedom Day 1987 is May 4--two days later than last year. Economists at the non­ ductible. Professional returns preparers had all the business they could handle and Internal Revenue Service offices were  overhaul takes effect. Accoun­tants report that because of widespread news coverage of passage of the new law last  
partisan research organization calculate that if every cent a worker earned during the first part of the year were ear­marked for federal, state and local taxes, he or she would  swamped with last-minute pleas for advice. The IRS expects 6.5 million couples and individuals to avoid the filing deadline by mailing a Form 4868, which will  year, many people have mis­takenly concluded the provi­sions affect their 1986 returns. In fact, virtually nothing in the new tax law will change the way a typical taxpayer files  
have to toil for the tax collec­tors through May 3. Viewed an­other way, an average person will have to work two hours and  bring a four-month extension. But that form must be accom­panied by a check for any esti­mated tax due.  these returns. The Tax Foundation, which comes up with a Tax Freedom Day every year, said the magic  
43 minutes of each eight-hour day to pay taxes. "This year, the American taxpayer has returned to the same point he was at prior to passage" of the 1981 federal tax  There's another way to stay the inevitable. Any taxpayer who is out of the United States or Puerto Rico on April15 gets an automatic two-month exten­sion in the time to file and to  date in 1970 was April 28 and in 1950 was April 3. The federal tax bill this year is less than it was in 1981 but higher than last year. Calcu­ 
cut, the foundation said. Those  pay any tax.  lated on the basis of an eight­ 
across-the-board  reductions  The IRS has been processing  hour work day, the foundation  
were wiped out by subsequent  returns  without  any  major  estimated the average worker  
federal  tax  increases  and  a  hitches  this  year,  but  the  will have to work one hour and  
growing tax burden at the state and local levels, the analysis  agency says anyone who waits until the last day to file should  46 minutes to pay the IRS this year, two minutes longer than  
said.  expect  to  wait  longer  for  a  last year but six minutes less  
The news came a day before  refund. Although most refunds  than in 1981.  
the deadline for filing federal  will be processed in six to eight  State and local taxes require  
tax returns--a chore that per- weeks, IRS spokesman Larry  another  57  minutes'  labor.  
Marines  
continued/rom page 1  
bassy on numerous late-night  
spying forays last year.  
Lonetree also has been  ac­ 
cused of breaching security at  
the Vienna facility by provid­ 
ing floor plans and office  as­ 
signments for the building.  
Sims declined to say whether any of the four Marines return­ 
 
ing for questioning might have  
served with Lonetree in Mos­ 
cow,  although  he  acknowl­ 
edged they had been targetedas an outgrowth of the Lonetree  
investigation.Hesaidhisinfor­mation indicated only that they  
had worked in  warsaw  Pact  
countries.  
Pentagon sources have said Lonetree and Bracy became in­volved sexually with Soviet wo­ 
men in Moscow, who in turn in- 


Convict parole change considered by court 
not a danger to us, we're a dan­

Associated Press 
ger to him," said eighth-grader 

MARTINEZ, Calif. -A plan Amy Rickerson, who attended 
to parole a convict who hacked a Monday night meeting of the 
the arms off a 15-year-old rape Antioch Police Commission. 
victim has caused so much Herendeen cautioned 200 
anger in Antioch that state residents at the meeting 
prison officials are considering against resorting to violence. 
changing the parole location, a Police will be closely watching 
state deputy attorney general Singleton, who will have to stay 
said Tuesday. in his home from 10 p.m. to 6 
A judge continued until a.m. daily. 
Friday a hearing held on a suit "A lot of threats have been 
to stop the corrections depart­made publicly and I would take 
ment from sending Lawrence them seriously," Herendeen 
Singleton to Antioch. Police on said in an interview. "I can just 
Monday had warned angry An­picture some rednecks driving 
tioch residents not to take by his house at 2 a.m. and 
vigilante action if Singleton shooting up the windows." 
was paroled there as planned Parole officials said they 
April 26. usually parole convicts to the 
Morris Lenk, a state deputy county where they last lived. 
attorney general, said in court Singleton did not want to return 
that the Department of Correc­to San Pablo, where he last 
tions is taking residents' anger lived, so another city in Contra 
into consideration and might Costa County was chosen. 
change the parole location. Of­Under restrictions set by 
ficials have said there is a pos­state parole officials, Heren­
sibility Singleton could be deen said, Singleton would also 
paroled to a state in the South be required to undergo psychi­
where he has relatives. atric counseling and be forbid­
The 59-year-old former mer­den to drink alcohol, leave the 
chant seaman picked up Mary county or contact his former 
Vincent hitchhiking in Septem­wife or daughter. 
ber 1978 and raped her, cut off 
both her arms below the elbow Singleton was sentenced to 
with an ax and left her to die serve 14 years and four months 
on a road near Modesto. He has and earned an early release for 
been in prison since 1979. good behavior and involvement 
Antioch residents com-in a work program. 
plained and started petition On Tuesday, Superior Court 
drives as soon as the plan was Judge Patricia Herron contin­
disclosed, and Police Chief Len ued a hearing to Antioch's suit 
Herendeen said that some resi­to block the convict's parolee. 
dents have been circulating State corrections officials 
Singleton's photograph. asked that the hearing be 
"One thing's for sure: if he's moved to Sacramento. 


WE ~IDIDJiali!Gf, 
li6IDVE 
liD A liD , ¥ID11I1 

ll6lll~E,

All6WA¥~ 
-;J 
~ 

.---11 SENIOR ..-~., 
~CLUB 
Applications for DJ's for the 1987-88 school year are available in the Student Activities Office, Rm. 301 LaFortune. 

-
View~_o_i_n_t_______
w_edne-sday_, 1987--pa-ge7
Apr-il15_, 

Sense of hope must P.O.BoxQ 
ities sponsored band from playing. Still, 

persist in the world Regatta organizers 
the event drew rave reviews from the 

The headlines, as usual, seem bleak. The Pope calls for an end to violence in Chile, and his listeners are dispersed by tear gas from government forces reacting to a group of anti-Pinochet protestors. Outbreaks of violence in South Africa continue as the white majority government systematically cripples the black majority through its apartheid policies, while back in Wash­ington, the United States government agrees to send 600 more missiles to Af­ghanistan to perpetuate that country's ongoing battle with the Soviet Union. 
Mary Ann White 
guest column 
Closer to home, things are not quite as bad, but still, the pressures are here. Many minorities find it difficult to "fit in" on these predominantly all-white campuses. Many seniors preparing to graduate experience the pressure of finding a job to pay off their costly un­dergraduate education. Other seniors, especially those planning to enter sci­entific or technological fields, must decide whether they are willing to work for a company whose policies they morally oppose or whether they will pass up the job offer. And for those of us remaining in South Bend for another year, we must face the increasing fin­ancial pressures of another year of higher education. 
When we consider all of the pressures that surround us and all of the bleak­ness in the world today, it truly does seem as though someone has opened Pandora's box. All of the evils of the world have flown out of the box and now appear as headlines in the media. Injustice reigns. 
But many people felt that one thing remained in Pandora's box after it was opened. The survivor was Hope. 
True, when we look at the surface of all of the injustices in the world today, it is difficult, sometimes next to impossible, to find hope in these situa­tions that are so far removed, so far out of our control. 
When we look at the issues closer though, our perspective changes. Yes, 
Doonesbury 
50IVHCN 010 ~ TAJJ< 70 THe C.E.O. ABOUT THe TAI<&OVER 811?, 5JR? I ... I / OON'T 
RCCAU... 
I 
this column is yet another call for an "awareness" of what is going on beyond the gates of our schools. But it is only through this heightened sense of awareness that we can begin to find "hope" in these seemingly "hope-less" situations. 
The people who have dedicated their lives, or at least part of their lives, to helping the oppressed perfectly ex­emplify this sense of hope. Ironically, theologian Thomas Merton once wrote, "Do not depend on the hope of results." Those who work with the oppressed rec­ognize the fact that their work will rarely produce immediate results; however, soon they realize that the value of their work is more important than seeing these immediate results. 
The dictionary defines hope as a "wish" for something with expectation of its fulfillment. Thus, we "hope" for good grades, we "hope" for a job, we "hope" for peace. But in this case "hop­ing" or "wishing" is not enough. If we wish for something, we must be willing to work for it. The workers who have dedicated their lives to bringing justice to the oppressed prove this to us. Again, we must remember that the impor­tance lies not in immediate results, but rather in the value of the work itself. 
But the dictionary also gives an ar­chaic definition of hope as meaning trust or confidence. Hope then becomes a way of trusting that justice will prevail. The volunteers trust that even­tually their work will help someone in some way. 
This notion may seem idealistic, but if it were not for hope, would the Philip­pines be where they are today? Would we be where we are today if it were not for a handful of "hopeful" rebels in the eighteenth century? 
No longer can we turn our backs on the seemingly "hopeless" situations in South Africa, Chile and around the world today. Instead, the time has come to view them with confidence that justice will prevail if we are willing to work for it. 
Mary Ann White is a junior English major at Saint Mary's and is the Group Coordinator of the Justice Education Committee. 

"tvAS IT BEFOR& 7}{£ OfFeRING? 
YES/ NO! 
I f)()N1 

thank all involved 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of all Fisher Hall residents, we would like to thank the entire Notre Dame community for its enthusiastic participation in the Fisher Hall Regat­ta. 
The first annual edition of the event was exceptionally successful as Breen­Phillips captured first place in the wo­men's division and Fisher was for­tunate enough to capture first and second place in the overall competition. Cavanaugh placed third. 
We would like to thank Coca-Cola for its generous financial support and William Hickey, director of University Food Services, who planned a lakeside picnic to coincide with the Regatta. Un­fortunately, the brisk weather made the outside picnic impossible, but the hot chocolate came in handy. The bad wea­ther also prevented the Student Activ­hundreds of boat watchers and Regatta fanatics. 
Most importantly, though, the Center for Basic Learning Skills, the Regatta charity, will benefit greatly from the financial support generated by the event. This organization helps educate individuals who are lacking basic skills such as reading and writing. 
Finally, we wish to extend our ap­preciation to the fifteen boats and the "floating vessels" representing numerous dorms and organizations, to their courageous crews who braved the rough waters, and to our rector, Bro­ther Edward Luther who made the Fis­her Hall Regatta Notre Dame's answer to America's Cup. 
Bob Daley Fisher Hall President Jay Farraher Chariman Fisher Hall Regatta Committee 


Garry Trudeau 
IA/Of.W YfXJ UKE 70TAKE A 
8/?EAK, SIR? 
I 
Quote of the day 
"Taxes are the price we pay for a civilized society." 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. 
(1841-1935) 


General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef _ ___ _Kevin Becker Business Manager,-----------------______ Brian P_ Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managmg Ed1tor, . _ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager_________ Michael Whinon News fd1tor Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager ...,. __ Melinda Chapleau News Ed1tor__ . __ J1m Riley Production Manager., --·---Melissa Warnke 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty V1ewpomt Ed1tor __ , .. .Chris Murphy Protects Manager . . ,.. Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the poilc1es Sports Ed1tor Denms Corrigan Systems Manager, _. __ , __ Shawn Sexton of the adm1n1strat1on of 811her lnst,tuhon The news IS reponed as accurately and objeCtively Accent Ed1tor . Michael Naughton Controller__ _ ___ Tracy Schindele as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board Samt Mary's Ed1tor _ Manlyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager,.. __ Laura Stanton Commentar1es. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column Photo Ed1tor J1m Carroll Development Manager_. _ Michael Shannon space 1s ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through leners. IS encouraged Founded November 3, 1988 
---~---~-­

Accent 
Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 8 


'The Adventures of Steve McStevewell'. 
prelude to an off-campus adventure 
T
his week: Part One of the adventures of Steve McStevewell, Notre Dame stu­dent. future President of the United States, borderline al­coholic and all-around nice guy. 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 
It was another Friday night and Steve McStevewell was bored out of his skull. "''m bored out of my skull" said Steve, "maybe I'll play an­other record." He slapped an­other Ramones record on the turntable and stared out the window into the descending night. 
"Sitting here watching night descend is really bogus" said Steve. "I wish something wild and exciting would happen. Tonight I want to feel all the rapture, all the glory that is youth." 
Suddenly a knock came upon his door. Steve opened It and stared into the faces of three of his hallmates; Mike, Mike and Mike. "How come every guy at Notre Dame is named Mike?" asked Steve. "Stop asking stupid ques­tions" said Mike. "Tonight we're going off campus to get destroyed and hook up with some hot babes." 
"I never hook up with hot babes" said Steve. "It's bad for my complexion. And as for getting destroyed. . . well that usually ends with getting sick, and dry heaves are not my idea of tasting the glory of youth." "What's all this glory of youth drek?" snapped Mike. "You're coming with us and you're going to have fun." 
"Great." said Steve. "I feel like I'm in the Hitler youth." "Be ready in half an hour," chanted the three Mikes. "Then come upstairs and have some vodka." 
Steve decided to go. "Heck, 


I'm young and extremely good looking. These are the best years of my life, and, anyway, I could go for meeting some hot babes. I haven't done that since, well. .. since a long time." He went to take a shower but found a large football player standing in front of the bath­room. "Uh, I want to take a shower," said Steve, who was only wearing a towel. "Sorry," said the football guy in a dis­interested tone, "there's a chick in there." "Why doesn't she just use the ladies room on the first floor?" asked Steve. "Why don't you take a walk before I shove all your teeth down your larynx?" came the response. 
"That's an interesting ques­tion," said Steve, "but you should never answer a ques­tion with another question. It's very rude." 
"''m going to kill you!" said the hormone monster. 
"Well, since you put it that way maybe I'll go shave or put on some socks or some­thing." muttered Steve, back­
ing away down the hall. "The NCAA will hear about this and then they'll probably suspend you or cut your salary in half or something." 
Steve finally found a shower, shaved, and put on a sweatshirt and some long shorts. Then he stood there looking in his mirror. "I am going to have a good time tonight," he told himself, "It won't be like that other time when I walked home from St. Louis street In sub-zero wea­ther and froze my gazamba off. It also won't be like last week when I lost half my clothes and walked into the lake, and it surely won't be like that horrible time when I woke up in Glanetto's parking lot. No, tonight will be differ­ent." "Who are you kidding?" responded his mirror. 
Steve went upstairs and joined the Mikes. "We're going to walk" said Mike. "It's a warrn night and drinking and driving Is stupid. Anyway, I know these three girls in Lyons who want to go with us." "Are they cute?" asked Mike hopefully. "Do chickens have lips?" responded Mike. Steve wasn't sure whether chickens had lips or not so he didn't say anything. 
They went to pick up the girls. Their names were Moira, Carrie, and Kristie. Moira and Kristie were nothing to get all excited about as far as Steve was concerned, but Carrie was undeniably a goddess. Steve decided to subtly intro­duce himself. "Hi," said Steve "my name is Steve McStevewell and you are so hot that you're melting my 
Correction 
Because of incomplete infor­mation supplied to The Obser­ver, Pete Gutrich was not men­tioned as a Morrissey HaD co-president in an HPC article in Tuesday's Accent section. Matt Dingens is the other co­president. 
Reeboks." "Oh..."said Carrie playing hard to get. "Wait. Steve McStevewell, aren't you the guy who walked into the lake last week?" "No," said Steve, fum­bling for an excuse, "that was my brother Matt McStevewell." "Oh," said Carrie "It sure looked like you. Are we going to stand around here all night or are we going to go off campus?" "Never fear," said one of the Mikes, "we're 
leaving now, and I can per­
sonally guarantee you the 
best time of your lives." 
"Even better than Circus Lunch?" asked Moira. "Yes," said the Mike, "even better than Circus Lunch." "Wow," murmured Steve "better than Circus Lunch. This might not be so bad after all." 
Will Steve have a better time off-campus than he had at Circus Lunch? Will he and Carrie find anything in com­mon? Will the three Mikes develop separate per­sonalities? Will Moira reveal her terrible secret? Are these really the best days of your life or is someone pulling your leg? These questions and a couple more that couldn't be printed here wil! be answered in part two of. "Steve McStevewell: Who is he and why isn't he in jail?" 

Accent department announces promotions 
Observer Staff Report 
The Accent department has rounded out its staff for the remainder of the year: 
Christine Gregory, a soph­omore from Darien, Conn. will be an assistant features editor. Gregory was previ­ously a features writer and has worked for GOLF maga­zine. 
Kim Yuratovac, a sopho­more from Chicago, will also serve as an assistant fea­tures editor. Yuratovac has served as as a news writer, features writer, and day chief. 
Trisha Chambers, a fresh­man from Chesterland, Ohio, will serve as a a copy editor. 
Beth Healy, a sophomore from Evansville, Ind. will serve as a copy editor for the weekly Scene section. 
Matt Sitzer, a junior from Rochester Minn., will serve as a copy editor. 
Kathy Scarbeck a junior from South Bend, Ind. has also been named copy editor. Scarbeck has written for Accent and also serves as a copy editor for Com­munio, an international Catholic journal. 
Dane Galden, a junior Arts and Letters major from Co­lumbus, Ohio, retains his position of assistant Scene editor. 
Tom Beatty a junior from Farmington, Conn., retains his position as a copy editor. 
Cindy Petrites, a freshman from Missouri City, Texas. will continue as copy editor for the remainder of this year. 


The Observer Wednesday, April 15, 1987 -page 9 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Men's volleyball team puts its 26-7 record on the line tonight in its final match of the year. The Irish play host to Indiana-Purdue, ranked in the Top­20, in the ACC Pit at 7:30 tonight. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The ND Track team travels to Indianapolis this weekend for the Indiana Intercollegiate track meet. -The Observer 
The 1987-88 Leprechaun makes his first appearance 
today at the women's tennis match at the Courtney Courts. 
The match begins at 3 p.m. -The Observer 
The bicycle club will have group rides for beginning and expenenced riders starting from the Administration Building at 3:45p.m., today through Friday. Everyone is welcome. -The Observer Dennis Savard of the Chicago Blackhawks celebrates a goal earlier this season against the Hartford Whalers. Sports Wednesday on page 

The O..W.Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The O..W. Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classified& is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
RIDE NEEDED TO FORT WAYNE FOR NUDE STRANDED IN SOUTHBEND FOR I.S.O. "Around the World" lecture series EASTER CALL DEIRDRE AT 1329· SKYDIVERS,BOB,MEGAN.JOANNA, EASTER? 
__ THANKS JESIL YN,MAX,JUDY,KAREN,CATE: SAB CHICAGO TRIP THIS FRIDAY SOUTH AFRICA THE CURRENT ~_N_O~TIC_E_S~~ ~~-FO R_R_EN_T~ YOU GUYS ARE GREAT-THANKS FOR COST $5.00 CRISIS 
Typ1ng Need 1 Ride to1rom ALL YOUR HELP. BRI·GUY LEAVE NO AT NOON· LEAVE CHICAGO An Informal dl scussion led by Pr. Peter Free Pickup and Delivery U. of MICHIGAN
6 bedroom 4·6 students $40CY.;OO & AT 1:00am Walshe, Tuesday April 21 8:00 p.m.. 277·7406 utilities. Security system 234 6688 for Easter Tommy C. SIGN UP AND PAY AT SAB OF· I.S.O. lounge, La Fortune. 2nd floor. for U.M.O.C. FICE.2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE BY Everybody Is welcome to come share SUM STOR:all belonings(incl Cal/ Andy £1529 THURS hi&her point of view and questions.
Wordprocess1ng· Typ1ng 
fur)sal&'secure Bill M.2327416 He's slow. He's large, Refreshments will be served. 
272·BB27 DALLAS He's reptilian, He's the FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT RIDERS WANTED IGUANA Need a ride anywhere? I need a ride Hey, Stevie Fisher ........... Do you like SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683· For Easter Break-Call Tom 1079 IGUANA FOR U.M.O.C. anywhere, somewhere. Or need riders. SEEFOOD? (Or just during Lent?)
TYPING AVAILABLE 
BB89 Let's rent a car and go to Cleveland. Call signed, someone who loves to eat meals LONG ISLAND DRUIDS. UNITE. Elect Archdruid as MIRIAM, you know, the one who wants with you287·4082 
House ava•lable June 1st for long-term RIDE NEEDED For Easter Break-Call UMOC. a ride all the time. lease. $4001110. 277·7121 before 9pm Jim 1157 Watch out cutie (and you know who you IGUANA FOR UMOC CALVIN • need I say more? are) because psyches GALORE are on 
UNIVERSITY RESUME 
FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR Here lor the summer and need a place IGUANA FOR UMOC the way. You better not take off yourProfooolonol Rnumeo GOOD 277· to stay? l need one IGUANA FOR UMOC
NEIGHBORHOOD male roommate to shoes during Easter. It's your fault be· Student Rotoo 3684288·0955 share a Hickory Village Apt. beginning NEWSTYPES: cause you double·blulted me TWICE. I Noor tho Mell mid·May. Call 277·3093 evenings. Thanks for all your hard work. Enjoy your hopa this message is SUBTLE enough
272-8336 3 BEDROOM APART For 87·88 school I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. Easter break. and serves as a nice little warning NOT year Part1ally Furnished $ 4501110. CALL NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS,OH SOP· If you help me. I will ensure your financial ·JR & CB to BLUFF me. love. your delta heart 233 6298 HIA C2814 future. and finance your Senior Week Call EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
Mark at 2339. To THE SLANDERER: Just because I MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SUMMER SPEC lALII 3 Bedroom Apart· GOING TO DETROIT FOR EASTER? I DONNA, LEE, MICHELLE, AND M.T.: work for you doesn't mean that I don't 
menl $ 3001110. ava11. 1n fall lor$ 450111o. NEED A RIDE BACK ON MONDAY FOR OK this is my final offer for Graduation THANKS FOR MAKING 21 50 SPECIAL expect something out of this predicament SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$... 
CALL 233 6298 2 PEOPLE PLEASE CALL 3510 AND tickets. I'll give you my sister and my HERE'S TO NELSEN THE WAITER that you've gotten yourself into. Non·texts for $$$tred1t next fall. PAN· ASK FOR KEVIN 
roommate for two Graduation tickets. AND FUNNY LOOKING HATS THAT $$$$$$$$$$ $$$$for your loveable DORA'S BOOKS. BOB Howard 51 JUS! 
87·88 4 BEDROOM CARPETED. 282· They do not even have to be together. MAKE YOU FEEL A UTILE MEXICAN... SCENE editor 28Bf
off of N D Ave OPEN 7 days a WEEK' HELP!!' Is anyone driving from'!hru MIL· Call Mark at 2339. YOU GUYS ARE THE BEST CONI 1 0·530. ph 233-2342 
WAUKEE Thank You St. Jude P.N. 
on Tues.,April 21 ???? Kris £1364 Haven't you always wanted to participate in a fixed election? Now's your chancel TO:THE WHITION TWINS Start your campaign for U.M.O.C. today. Happy Birthday to you (both).
T~ACiE. T. FETIERS THERE ARE FEW WORDS I COULD SAY THAT
Need a female roommate for summer Happy Birthday to you (both). maybe fell too. Call Maureen at SMC Archdruid for U.M.O.C. Happy Birthday to you (both). 
LOST/FOUND IIL.._w_A_NT_E_D-----~ 

WOULD EXPRESS HOW I FEEL, SO I'LL JUST TELL YOU THAT BILL CALLED AND SAID HIS NEW ROOM
GOING TO PERDUE? 5243. Happy Birthday to you (both).
LOST 20·•nch gold cha1n on Stepan TWO STUDENTS NEED RIDE (to be sung to the tune of none other Courts last Wednesday. 4·1 dunng NUMBER IS 227... SOMEHOW YOU
T~ROM LAFAYETIE EASTER Fr. Ted lor U.M.O.C. than "Happy Birthday") Mike, lis been
Ride lor one

Bookstore game II found. please call V1n MANAGED TO MAKE ME A HAPPY 21
WEEKEND PLEASE CALL great getting to know you this year and
DESPERATELY

at C2159 YEAR OLD EVEN THOUGH I SPENT
LAUREC2769 Kathleen. glad to meet you too. Have a
Needed to detroit MORE TIME IN A PHONE BOOTH 

great Easter Break. DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M MINNESOTANS: HELPI I need a ride to Love. Mana Leave anytime
LOST one new leather Indoor-outdoor THAN I EVER THOUGHT I WOULD ON 
Call Andy x1746

MacGregor BASKETBALL on Tues 7 MY BIRTHDAY... LET'S HOPE
NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA Minneapolis-St. Paul for Apnl after 6·15 game It wasn't even AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I Easter Break! I can leave as early as BIRTHDAY WISHES CAN COME TRUE. "ONCE IN YOUR LIFE YOU FIND 
mme; I borrowed 1t from a good lnend EVEN IF IT WAS ALL HIS FAULTIII SOMEONE .. .' My Precious Chuck, It's
NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL Wednesday and I am 
and would REALLY like to return 11 So THANK YOU. MY FRIEND...A TOAST hard to believe Its really been 2 whole
BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. per1ectly willing to share expenses. etc... 
11 you have 1! and are an HONEST Domer TO SAND IN THE WIND AND THE IDIOT years. I'm so glad we found each other.
IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL If you can help 
PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT 277-FOR SALE THAT DIDN'T EVEN KNOW SHE WAS lor you've changed my life so much lor
MIKE AT 282·3727. me pleasecall284·5181 and ask lor Rae· 
824 f THANKS Ill! THROWIN' IT (I WAS TOO BUSY NOT the better. Never forget how much I love 
hael! Ill I Ill 
HAVING TIME TO BE FUNNY) you. Happy Anniversary, April26, 1987111Despeately need nde to NYAIIJ, leaving 1986 TREK BIKE for sale. Best offer. 
LOST Black Wallet, al Senior Bar Wed CHARLES WILLIAMS AND LIFE All Ways and Forever Yours, AmyBeth
416 and returning 421. Please call Scott Call Pat 277·8535 HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
n1ghl· ID's, photos. etc. ol sentimental Thursday April 16 FOREVER LOVE, CONI (OTHERWISE
at 3175.
value Much apprec1a!ed If returned Call KNOWN AS DELUTED) IN JUST FIVE DAYS...
Mr. June 27 Connie 277·3545 Reward Christi Pearson, "The Chestless
Bass player soughllor rock and roll band. Love. all your fans at NO FOUND: A LEPRECHAUN WHO WILL Wonder"....
Preferably underclassman. Musical inter· TICKETS
FOUND Woman's wedd1ng band. out· MAKE A DIFFERENCE ...WAKE UP THE WILL FINALLY HAVE NO BRACES IIIII 
ests Include: Who. U2, Kinks. Cars, HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY 
ECHOES. BRI·GUYI BOYS WILL LIKE HER NOWIIIII
s•de law school. Call Gary at 234·8984 Mike and Kathleen Whitton
Police, Stones. Bealles. Van Hafen, Rush. Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Love, Llaa 
FOUND Sunglasses 1n fronl of B·P NUDE
at 3175 for more Information. Need one graduation ticket. I am getting
Thurs mghl Call 21 B7 or stop by 225 SKYDIVERS,BOB,MEGAN.JOANNA,JE1 MIKE & OJ SAY: ·ANDY BRAUN FOR
4, but I have 2 parents and 3 brothers 

Grace GUYS ARE GREAT·THANKS FOR ALL U.M.O.C.II
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS and sisters. Can't leave my little sister at ROLAND BLUEMLE YOUR HELP. BRI·GUYCounselors, 21 plus. Coed. sleepaway home. Please call DON at 3675 Will Pay IS U.M.O.C. 
DAVID (of Addison fame) .. I'm willing toFOUND· AIWA headset 1n cashier off1ce camp. Massachusetts Berkshire&. WSI. $$ 

1()14 call matt al1682 to 1dent1fy and claim HAPPY BIRTHDAY. CLYNIII forgive and forget that you stood me up
arts&crahs, tennis, all land and water HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BINIII not once, not twice, but three times oversports, gymnastics. drama. p1anoplay for Need Graduation Tix..2 Do not need to HE'S UGLY, 
lost, grey Boston C:ollege sweatshirt, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BINNER CLYNERIII Christmas break and make one more ol·
shows. rudo. photography, dance. com· be together. Will Pay$$ I am desperate HE'S VILE, 
Stepan 3, Fnday at the Bookstore games, We'll make sure you have e wonder1ul fer. I'm going to be in your neighborhood 
pulers. nature, wilderness. model rock· Call MIKE at 3640 HE'S SCUM. 
(K of P) Friday ahernoon-·how about a

please return to Badin 307·3713 BLUEMLE FOR UMOII twenty-first I 
etry, guitar, radio, video.archery. year· Love always.. Scoobit, Dad, and Lize friendly lunch date between two rationalbook, woodworking, RN and typists. FOR SALE NEIL DIAMOND TIXI call people who happen to live in the sameLOST· A brown Wilson Aggressor model Wrlte:Camp Emerson, 5 Brassie Rd. 277·B347 area? Call me If you're game.
basketball Last seen before the 2:30 Eastchester. NY 10707 or call 9141779· 
want to be a druid? ..MADDIE
game on Bookstore10 on Saturday. April to the person who wrote a personal to
9406. 
11 It was a IItie ovennflated. It is my next the parson who wrote a parsonal to the 
Call the Archdruid at 407 4 to get in on
door neighbor's from home, so ita return Here lor the summer and need a place PERSONALS girl who slams fuzzy navals· the parson would be greatly appreciated. If found the big INDUCTION OF SPRING for who that personal was meant for has L YNN,SUZANNE,AND MARY 
to stay? I need one female roomate to ceremonies next all
please call Tim at 3450. Tuesday around already figured that out so If your that How can a girl be blue with such
share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC·5239 campus. Equal opportunity employer. It's parson that's great, but if not, I guess it awesome friends as you? You all are
if interested. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, fun, it's happaning, it's now. Be therel does not really matter unless you were really super. I love youlllLOST· HP 11C CALCULATOR ON CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 9 IF FOUND expecting someone to be writing a per· Love, Maria
Need ride to Columbus. Ohio lor Easter BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Spring shall arrive ...
PLEASE CALL C1352 AND ASK FOR sonal to you· to the real fuzzy naval
Break. Willing to help pay for gas. Please PETE slammer··· Hll Me again
call Pete at 4644. Are you going to 
Happy B-day Kathy Francis X.
be here for 
Sorry Its a week late but hopa your 21stLOST·:SIIver Bracelet at Bndge!'s Apr ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT • SUMMER SCHOOL??? 

year is the best yetll

2nd High Sentimental Value-Reward Call CONGRATS VERMIN ON FINAL 6411
fisheries. Earn $600 plu&Week in can· 
Do it up right on Wed. Scarlett
KathyX284·4371 nery, SB.000·$12,000 plus for two If so, The Observer needs your help in GOOD LUCK I months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 producing some summer issues of the 
PEOPLE Dana&Amy Anne Fiehrer.
LOST· Black purse. wallet. and check· openings. No experience necessary. newspaper. 
Happy 21stl Enjoy your self & break. 

books 1n 01 lot. You can keep the cash. An Tostal starts next Tuesday with the
Mote or Female.. Get the early start that The jobs are varied and. If you are inter· PS: I won't be giving you any floating
credit. and checks (they've all been can· INDUCTION OF SPRING to take place
is necessary. For 52·page employment ested In newspapar training in your spare 
celled anyway) but PLEASE return my all over campus. Get ready for a week To Maria and Maureen (Dropsy): We hate goldfish for your big day.
booklet, send $5.95 to: M&L Research, time, call The Observer offices and ask Box 84008, Seattle, WA 9B124. for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker.
10 or license so I can go out again. Call of fun in the sun. Watch for the Druids to burst your bubbles. Or say our 287·3940 or send toP. 0. Box 972. Notre on Tuesday night to officially start An friendship will stop, But though you gals BUNNY & BOOM·BOOM:
The Observer 

Dame. Thanks. Tostalll could dance, You were the first to drop. Happy 19th Birthdays!
SUMMER JOBS and Thanks for a great evening. Love Daniel I wuv yalALL LANI)WATER SPORTS Special Olympics 
LOST· KODAK 35mm CAMERA by the Ride offered to WASH. DO' No. VA. and Ed. Cubi
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK NEEDS YOUIII 
PW vending machines Thura night,49 at Leave 4'16 at noon Return 420 Call Jim 
MOUNTAINS Nanc· Think ol Nick. Think of Nick in a
about Jem. I need n back desparate· Carroll at 2250
CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­Welcome to the 21 club
lyiiiPiease be honest and return lt. If INGS 914·381-4224. GLNOOMC • For Information, write to: suitl Dutch Sofranks
found please call Julie at 130B. HAPPY 21ST RAMON!
Box 194. Notre Dame, IN 46556 Only 2 v.1 shots-we'll have to get you K·SAVE ME FROM THE CHILDREN OF Happy 21st 
FOUND: beige scar1 at the Charity Ball. the other t 8 next week. 
THE RHUTABAGASI·C From Sally,Sherry. Karen, Cathy 
To cla1m call 3896. 
Needed: A ride tOolrom Milwaukee or JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 2 GIRLS¢1 BIKEKATHY "SPOOFETIE" DONALS· A 3·Sheboygan, WI for Easter break. Call "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE 
0 HOPE FOLEY SISTERS ARRESTED FOR !.oat: Cif1zen·a watch • Roman numerals Paul 2287. FORM" 
WOMAN MAN 
PUBLIC INTOXICAnON with brown leather band. Somewhere on 
KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$··· 
K&J·REMEMBER TO BRUSH YOUR ... now that we have your aHentlon.. SMC campus. Please call 284·4288. 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 

CHIN EVERYDAYI·C Happy Birthday Moml
7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. Non-texts for $$$-tredlt next fall. PAN· 
We love youl Ann & Chris loot: at Turtle Creek. Blue Drexel HELPI NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO IN· 123 NtEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just 
TODD SMITH: YOU ARE BEING Baseball Jacket with £B on it. Please call DIANAPOLIS OR BLOOMINGTON FOR P.B. HAPPY EASTER TOOl
ALL MAJORS WELCOME. oft of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI SCOPE Oil 
Michelle at 284·5118. EASTER. PLEAS E CALL 2914 1 0·530 ph. 233·2342 


---------~~--­




April 15, 1987' 

orts 
Sports Lists 
How Jack Nicklaus Fared in Masters as Defending Champion 
Won 1963 Won 1965 Won 1966 Won 1972 Won 1975 Won 1986 
Irish Tennis 
SINGLES Tim Carr 
Dave Reiter 
Brian Kalbas 
Mike Wallace 
Dan Walsh 
Paul Daggs 
Sean O'Brien Tom Grier TOTALS 
Michelle Dasso Stephanie Tolstedt Alice Lohrer Tammy Schmidt Natalie Illig Resa Kelly Julie Sullivan TOTALS 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today 
Baseball at Purdue Lacrosse vs. LAKE FOREST Women's tennis vs. WESTERN HIGAN Men's tennis at Michigan 
Thursday 
No sports scheduled 
Friday 
No sports scheduled 
Saturday 
Baseball at Detroit (2) Lacrosse at Denison Track at Indiana lntercollegiates 
Sunday 
Baseball at St. Joseph's (Ind.) (2) 
Monday 
No sports scheduled 
Tuesday 
Women's tennis at Northwestern 
ASK ABOUT REBUD 
3 credits -2 weeks 
printmaking -photo ceramics -palntlnt'drawlng field biology 
~ontact: Bill Sandusk~ Saint Mary's Art Dept. 284-4655 
#1 
8-13 
2-0 
10.13 
3-9 
0-2 
3·11 
#2 2-0 5-7 2-2 2-3 
11-12 
5-7 
1-1 
6-8 
MIC­
Tied for Second in 1964 Won in 1966 Missed Cut in 1967 Tied for Third in 1973 Tied for Third in 1976 Tied for Fourth in 1987 
#3 #4 #5 #6 TOTAL 10-13 3-3 3-1 11-11 7-6 4-0 13-8 2-1 6-3 1-0 13-7 1-0 2-1 1-2 4-3 3-1 9-3 12-4 1-0 2-1 1-2 4-3 3-2 3-2 12-10 19-4 18-3 16-7 88-49 
3-9 
5-9 5-4 6-5 0-2 7-5 7-7 
1-1 8-4 9-5 
0-2 6-6 6-8 1-2 1-1 2-3 6-8 8-6 8-6 7-7 32-40 
lnterhall Lacrosse 

Central Division Cavanaugh 4, Stanford 1 Cavanaugh over Keenan B, forfeit Cavanaugh 7, Keenan A 1 Keenan A 9, Zahm 0 Stanford over Keenan B, forfeit Zahm 5, Stanford 1 
North Division Grace 4, Flanner B 1 Flanner A over Carroll, forfeit Off Campus Crime over Carroll, forfeit Off Campus Crime 11 , Flanner B 0 Flanner A 4, Off Campus Crime 3 Flanner B over Carroll, forfeit 
South Division Alumni 2, Howard 2 Dillon 3, Pangborn 2 Alumni over Dillon Morrissey 2, Howard 2 Morrissey 2, Dillon 1 
MISL 
Eeetam Division 

w L Pet. GB x-Baltimore 30 15 .667 x-Cieveland 28 16 .636 1.5 Dallas 27 19 .587 3.5 Minnesota 22 23 .489 8 Chicago 22 24 .478 8.5 The New York Express, at 3-23, lolded on Feb. 17 
CAMPUS VIEW APTS 

Now Renting for Fall 

Completely Furnished, Balconies, Off Street Parking, Laundry,
Furnished 
On Site Management &

Utilities Paid 
Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Now taking applications for 
Ask about our Special Summer Rates
summer leasing 
Office at 820 NO AVE­234-6647

Ph. 272-1441 
Protected b Pinkerton Securi 
---------------------~--------------------------. 

The Observer page 10 
ednesda 

Irish Baseball 
Through Sunday 
BATTER  GP  AB  R  H  2B  
Pat Pesavento, OF  27  102  26  37  4  
Dan Peltier, SS  27  95  13  32  4  
Kevin Smith, OF  9  9  3  3  0  
Mike Moshier, 28  25  69  10  19  2  
Ray Szajko, IF-OF  13  33  6  9  2  
Scott Rogers, OF  20  61  8  16  3  
Pat O'Brien, C-OF  18  54  11  14  0  
Tim Hutson, 1B  27  89  12  22  4  
Steve Skupien, 3B  24  86  17  21  2  
Mike Flynn, OF  23  80  5  18  2  
Craig Pavlina, C  13  38  5  8  2  
John Loughran, OF  27  90  8  17  2  
John Flanagan, OF  5  7  1  1  0  
Don Diebel, OF  6  10  1  1  0  
David Yawman, C  1  1  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  27  827  127  219  27  
OPPONENTS  27  809  155  241  42  

Left on base: Notre Dame 200, Opponents 185 
PITCHER GP GS CG IP H Mike Harmon 6 0 0 11.0 10 Erik Madsen 7 0 0 16.2 25 Tom Howard 6 0 0 20.1 24 Brian Poitrowicz 7 6 3 40.1 41 Kevin Chenail 7 6 2 38.1 36 Robert Fitz 3 3 1 15.0 15 Mike Passilla 6 6 2 32.2 45 Tom Shaw 1 1 0 6.0 3 John Gleeson 6 0 0 6.1 8 Rob Kramer 1 0 0 1.0 3 Mike Coffey 3 3 0 10.1 19 Derk Madden 2 2 0 4.2 9 Paul Mauk 4 0 0 2.0 3 NOTRE DAME 27 27 8 204.2 241 OPPONENTS 27 27 11 211.0 219 
Saves: Notre Dame 1 (Gleeson), Opponents 4 
National League 
Eastern Division Eastern Conference 
w L Pet. GB Atlantic Division New York 4 2 .667 w L St. Louis 4 3 .571 .5 y-Boston 56 23 Chicago 3 3 .500 1 x-Philadelphia 44 35 Pittsburgh 2 4 .333 2 x-Washington 40 39 Montreal 5 .167 3 New Jersey 24 55 Philadelphia 6 .143 3.5 New York 24 55 
Western Dlvlelon Central Division Cincinnati 6 1 .857 y-Atlanta 55 24 San Francisco 7 2 .n8 x-Detroit 50 29 Houston 6 2 .750 .5 x-Milwaukee 48 32 Atlanta 4 3 .571 2 x-Chicago 40 40 Los Angeles 4 5 .444 3 x-lndiana 39 40 San Diego 1 7 .125 5.5 Cleveland 30 50 
Last Night's Results New York 7, Philadelphia 5 Cincinnati 6, Atlanta 3 San Francisco 3, San Diego 2 Weetern Conference Los Angeles 3, Houston 2 (12 innings) Midwest Dlvlalon 
w L 

y-Dallas 53 26 
x-Utah 44 36 
x-Houslon 41 38 
Eaetern Dlvlelon 
American League 
w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 8 0 1.000 
San Antonio 26 53 
Baltimore 5 3 New York 5 3 Detroit 4 3 Toronto 4 3 Boston 3 4 Cleveland 7 
Weetem Dlvlelon 
w L Minnesota 6 2 California 5 3 Kansas City 4 3 Seattle 3 5 Chicago 2 5 Oakland 2 6 Texas 1 6 
Llat Night'• Reeulte Boston 4, Texas 1 New York 10, Cleveland 6 Milwaukee 7, Baltimore 4 Toronto 4, Chicago 3 (13 innings) Kansas City 10, Detroit 1 Minnesota 9, Oakland 8 Seattle 6, California 4 
Weatern Division x·Tacoma 29 16 x-Kansas City 24 20 x-San Diego 25 21 x-Wichita 23 22 St. Louis 15 30 Los Angeles 13 32 x-clinched playoff spot 
ND AVE APTS 
x-Denver 36 44 Sacramento 28 52

.625 .625 .571 .571 .429 .125  3 3 3.5 3.5 4.5 7  y-L.A. Lakers x-Portland x-Golden State x-Seattle Phoenix  Pacific Dtvlelon 64 15 47 32 40 39 37 42 34 46  
L.A. Clippers  12  67  
Pet. .750  GB  y-clinched division title x-clinched playoff berth  
.625  1  
.571 .375 .286 .250 .143  1.5 3 3.5 4 4.5  Last Night's Results Cleveland 113, New Jersey 95 Denver 142, Portland 114 Phoenix 132, Sacramento 123 Golden State 117, L.A. Clippers 108  
Seattle 103, Utah 102  
Tonight's Gamas  
Cleveland at Washington  
New Jersey at Atlanta  
New York at Detroit  
Boston at Indiana  
Philadelphia at Milwaukee  
Houston at Dallas  
Portland at San Antonio  
Phoenix at Golden State  

.644 
lnterhall Soccer
.545 4.5 .543 4.5 .511 6 
Women's Division
.333 14 
Breen-Phillips 2, Lewis 1
.289 16 Farley 1, Pasquerilla East 0 
3B 1 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 8 
BB 11 6 5 25 20 10 13 6 6 0 6 5 5 118 97 

HR RBI BB so 0 17 15 7 3 23 13 8 0 3 0 0 1 5 8 11 0 0 3 7 0 12 13 19 0 4 2 16 5 14 10 24 3 9 13 17 3 14 2 37 0 3 2 9 0 5 8 15 0 0 3 1 0 1 3 1 0 0 0 0 15 111 97 173 18 140 118 91 
so R ER w 7 6 4 1 6 9 8 0 11 11 10 0 21 24 21 2 17 24 20 1 5 12 9 1 12 23 20 1 3 5 4 0 2 6 6 2 1 1 1 0 4 14 13 1 2 11 10 0 0 9 6 0 91 155 132 9 173 127 104 18 
SB 7 0 0 0 1 3 0 0 3 0 2 1 1 0 0 18 48 
L 1 1 0 3 4 1 3 1 1 0 1 1 1 18 9 
Pet. .709 .557 .506 .304 
.304 
.696 .633 .600 .500 .494 .375 
Pet. .671 .550 .519 .450 .350 .329 
.810 .595 .506 .468 .425 .152 
BA .363 .337 .333 .275 .273 .262 .259 .247 .244 .225 .211 .189 .143 .100 .000 .265 .298 
ERA 3.27 4.32 4.43 4.69 4.70 5.40 5.51 6.00 8.53 9.00 11.32 19.29 27.00 5.80 4_44 
GB 
12 16 32 32 
5 7.5 15.5 16 25.5 
GB 
9.5 
12 17.5 25.5 
27 
17 24 27 30.5 52 
lnterhall Baseball 
Last Week's Results 
Gold Division Loser's bracket Howard over Carroll A, forfeit 
Alumni over  Grace  B  Howard over  
Alumni  
Red Division  

Winner's bracket Keenan over Stanford-1 Loser's bracket Stanford-3 over Off Campus-1 
Blue Division Loser's bracket Pangborn vs. Off Campus-2, postponed, rain 
White Division Winner's bracket Dillon vs. Morrissey, postponed, rain Loser's bracket Zahm over Flanner B, forfeit 
Schedule 
Gold Division Winner's bracket Dillon vs. Stanford-2, April 22 Loser's bracket Howard vs. Dillon I Stanford-2 loser, April25 Division championship Dillon I Stanford-2 winner vs. loser's bracket winner, April 30 Second game if necessary, date not yet set 
Red Division Loser's bracket Stanford-1 vs. Stanford-3, April 2~ Division championship Keenan vs. Stanford-1 IStanford-3 win­ner, April 25 Second game if necessary, April 29 
Blue Division Winner's bracket Grace A vs. Cavanaugh-1, today Loser's bracket Pangborn vs. Off Campus-2, April 23 Grace A I Cavanaugh loser vs. Pangborn I Off Campus-2 winner, April 27 Division championship Grace AICavanaugh winner vs. loser's bracket winner, April 29 Second game if necessary, date not yet set 
White Division Winner's bracket Morrissey vs. Dillon, date not yet set Loser's bracket Zahm vs. Morrissey I Dillon loser, April 24 Division championship Morrissey I Dillon winner vs. loser's bracket winner, April 28 Second game if necessary, date not yet set 
NHL Playoffs 
Stanley Cup Playoffs Division Semifinals (Best-of-Seven) 
Patrick Division Philadelphia 3, N.Y. Rangers 1 (Philadelphia leads series, 3-2) 
N.Y. Islanders 4, Washington 2 (Washington leads series, 3-2) 
Adams Division Quebec 7, Hartford 5 (Quebec leads series, 3-2) 
Norris Division Toronto 2, St. Louis 1 (Toronto leads series, 3-2) 
Smythe Division Edmonton 5, Los Angeles 4 (Edmonton wins series, 4-1) Calgary 4, Winnipeg 3 (Winnipeg leads se­ries, 3-2) 



----~ ~~~--­
Wednesday, April 15, 1987-page 11

The Observer 
Expos pick up first win of season, Milwaukee continues to roll in AL 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Jeff Reed drove horne four runs to lead the Montreal Expos to their first victory of the season, a 9-4 deci­sion over the St. Louis Car­dinals Tuesday night. 
Expos right-hander Jay Tibbs, 1-1, took a three-hit shutout into the ninth inning, but Tommy Herr had a two-run double and Jack Clark an RBI single for the Cardinals before Bob McClure got the last three outs. McClure surrendered a sacrifice fly to Jim Lindeman. 
The Expos got their first vic­tory in six games with a 10-hit attack against Greg Mathews, 0-1, and three St. Louis relievers. 
Mathews walked three straight batters with two outs in Montreal's four-run first. The third walk, to Reid Nichols, forced horne Andres Galar­raga, and Reed then doubled to score Nichols, Tim Wallach and Vance Law. 
Galarraga's single and Wal­
lach's sacrifice knocked in runs 
in the second, and Reed's single 
made it 7-0 in the fifth. 
Wallach had a two-run single 
in the sixth. 
Brewers 7, Orioles 4 
BALTIMORE -Five Mil­
waukee players homered as the 
Brewers remained unbeaten in 
eight games with a 7-4 victory 
over the Baltimore Orioles 
Tuesday night. 
Paul Molitor, Robin Yount, 
Jim Gantner, Rob Deer and 
Greg Brock each homered as 
the Brewers continued the best 
start in the franchise's history. 
Molitor led off the game with 
the first of four horne runs al­
lowed by Baltimore's Ken 
Dixon, 1-1, who pitched into the 
sixth inning. 
Yount and Gantner hit their 
homers in the second inning 
and Deer hit his in the sixth. 
Brock's carne in the sixth off 
reliever Tony Arnold. 
Dale Sveurn had three of Mil­
waukee's 14 hits. His third, an 
eighth-inning single, drove in 
the final Milwaukee run. 
Mark Ciardi, 1-0, worked five 
innings for his first major­
league victory. Dan Plesac 
worked the final 1 1-3 innings 
for his third save. 
The Orioles loaded the bases with none out in the second but managed just one run as Terry Kennedy hit into a double play and Larry Sheets grounded out. 
Cal Ripken hit a two-run horner in the third. Ray Knight doubled in the eighth and scored on a single by Sheets. 
Yankees 10, Indians 6 
NEW YORK-Joel Skinner hit a grand slam off Cleveland reliever Steve Carlton that broke a fifth-inning tie Tuesday night and gave the New York Yankees a 10-6 victory. 
With two outs in the fifth and the score 3-3, Carlton walked Dave Winfield and Mike Pagliarulo doubled. Carlton, 0­1, then walked Willie Randolph and fell behind Skinner 2-and-0. Cleveland Manager Pat Cor­rales visited the mound and Skinner hit the next pitch for his first career grand slam. 
Cecilio Guante, who relieved starter Bob Tewksbury in the fourth, won his first decision, allowing one run in 3 1-3 in­nings. The Indians scored two eighth-inning runs off Dave Righetti. 
Joe Carter drove in four runs with a homer, double and two RBI singles for Cleveland, which suffered its fifth straight loss. 
Carter had an RBI single in first, but Rickey Henderson opened the Yankees' half of the inning with a home run off starter Phil Niekro. Niekro later hit Pagliarulo with a pitch with the bases loaded to make it 2-1. 
Claudell Washington's RBI single in the second made it 3-1 before the Indians knocked out Tewksbury in the fourth on 
Carter's homer,  and  an  RBI  
single by Chris Bando.  
Henderson  tripled  and  

scored in the sixth and singled in the eighth when the Yankees added their final two runs. 
Blue Jays 4, White Sox 
TORONTO -Rick Leach's single through the infield in the 13th inning scored Willie Up­shaw and gave the Toronto Blue Jays a 4-3 victory over the Chicago White Sox Tuesday night. 
Upshaw and Ernie Whitt 
were walked by Joel McKeon, 
0-1, to lead off the 13th. Leach, 
who entered the game as a 
pinch-hitter in the eighth in­
ning, slapped McKeon's first 
pitch up the middle and the ball 
deflected off the pitcher's glove 
and through the left side of the 
infield. 

Mark Eichhorn, the fourth 
Toronto pitcher, pitched one in­
ning to earn his first victory of 
the season. 

Chicago starter Floyd Ban­nister had scattered five hits and allowed only one run before the Blue Jays rallied to tie the game 3-3 in the eighth. 
Red Sox 4, Rangers 1 
BOSTON -Don Baylor hit a three-run homer in the first in­ning and AI Nipper scattered nine hits over eight innings as the Boston Red Sox defeated Texas 4-1 Tuesday, handing the Rangers their fifth straight defeat. 
Nipper, 1-0, lost his bid for his first career shutout on Pete Incaviglia's third homer with one out in the eighth. He struck out five and walked two before giving way to Calvin Schiraldi, who pitched the ninth for his first save. 
The Red Sox took a quick 3-0 lead against Ed Correa, 0-1. 
Wade Boggs led off the first 
with the first of his three con­
secutive walks and Bill Buck­
ner singled with one out. Jim 
Rice struck out, but Baylor hit 
a 3-2 pitch high into the screen 
in left for his third homer of the 
season and 29th lifetime 
against the Rangers. 
The Red Sox added an insur­
ance run in the sixth on a single 
by Dave Henderson, a sacrifice 
by Marc Sullivan and a single 
off reliever Dale Mohorcic by 
Spike Owen, hitting just .050. 
Reds 6, Braves 3 
ATLANTA -Kal Daniels drove in two runs, including a leadoff homer in the sixth that broke a 3-3 tie, and three Cin­cinnati pitchers held Atlanta at by in a 6-3 victory over the Braves Tuesday night. 
Daniels' homer just cleared the right field fence at the 330­foot mark off starter David Palmer, 0-2, and lifted the Reds to their sixth win in seven games. 
Eric Davis, hitting .478 going into the game, smacked a three-run homer in the first after Palmer issued consecu­tive walks to Daniels and Terry 

AP Photo 

San Diego manager Larry Bowa looks a bit bewildered after his first ejection as a major league manager on Monday. The Padres lost again last night. Summaries of Tuesday's major league ac­
THE JHBBSHOPPE  
PACKING. SHIPPING. STORING. MOVING. BOXES. W•'l w,.It, ...It, I'Wd It,-It•.• Te Mttt YOOR S«1 1 + • MOVING IJOXD • P.\CUGE SHIPPING • GD'TIJOXD • MAIUNG 1t1a:s • ITOIIAGE IJOXD • LOOSE P.\CUNG MAn::m.AL • GlnAP.\CUGE • SHIPPING t:Nl'EI.OPD WR.\PP1NG .\ND CONTAINDtS Wk/Aitr JIISI 0./hu Or A n...-ltd ... 1/ W,..P.. 'r ,.,.,.It ...c., (AI II! w.Arl' A ltl¥1' DdlnbtiiW FOT ..... ~ .,.,~.n,,..,.. .A ltd n..t.,._,... c.....,.~n~r ~!  
.. _............. llnuf\ JNS"'­.-~-=a.a~ .... -Ill" •1 "'" _.W........ .,__....,.. •• " ., Jl' .. ••• -­1'1{ ........,..,....... lYMm  
~~~~111111.5 11 ·--1


Francona. Davis also had a run home run Tuesday night to 
I I
Student Activities 
I accepti~~ :~~ications I 
for the foiJowing positions: i 
I 

• LaFortune Building Monitors I 
tion is at right. 
single and two stolen bases. 
Ted Power, 1-0, allowed five 
hits in six innings, Ron Robin­
son pitched two hitless innings 
and John Franco got the last 
three outs for the Reds. 
The Braves got two runs in 
the first off Power after the 
right-hander walked Dion 
James and Ken Oberkfell. 
Gerald Perry singled in James 
and Oberkfell scored on Ken 
Griffey's sacrifice fly. 
Atlanta tied it at 3-3 in the 
fifth on Griffey's RBI groun­
dout. 
The Reds added two runs in 
the seventh on an RBI double 
by pinch-hitter Paul O'Neill 
and Daniels' single. 
Mets 7, Phillies 5 
PHILADELPHIA -Mookie 
Wilson singled in Len Dykstra 
with the first of two ninth­
inning runs as the New York 
Mets nipped the Philadelphia 
Phillies 7-5 Tuesday night. 
With the score tied at 5-5 in 
the ninth, Dykstra batted for 
Rafael Santana and drew a 
leadoff walk off loser Steve 
Bedrosian, 1-1. Dykstra stole 
second before scoring on Wil­
son's hit. 
Wilson went to third as his 
hit was misplayed by Ron 
Roenicke and scored when 
Juan Samuel threw wildly to 
home on Wally Backman's 
grounder. 
Royals 10, Tigers 1 KANSAS CITY-Bo Jackson hit a grand slam and a three­
I 
Giants' record to 7-2, equalling their best start since 1979, while the Padres dropped to 1-7, their

• Stepan Center Monitors worst beginning since 1974. 
All of Melvin's homers have I come against the Padres. The Giants scored single runs in each of the first three

Pick up applications in the 
innings off starter Ed Wojna, 
0-1. San Francisco reliever 
Mark Grant, 1-0, got the win . 

Student Activities Office, 
301 LaFortune . 
Scott Garrelts worked the final three innings for his second save. 


power Kansas City past the Detroit Tigers 10-1. Jackson also had two singles and raised his average to .500. 
Right-hander Mark Gubicza squared his record at 1-1 with a five-hitter, snapping the Tigers' four-game winning streak. 
Royals rookie Kevin Seitzer hit a triple and two singles and raised his average to .481. 
Wilson singled off Dan Petry, 0-1, leading off the first and scored on a triple by Seitzer, who scored on Brett's sacrifice 
fly. 
Petry walked Seitzer in the 
third and one out later Frank 
White was safe on Coles' first 
error. With two out, Jackson hit 
his first homer. 
Seitzer singled in the sixth, 
then George Brett walked and 
the bases were loaded when 
third baseman Darnell Coles 
erred again, on a grounder by 
White. Jackson then hit homer 
No.2 off reliever Nate Snell. It 
was his first grand slam. 
Mariners 6, Angels 4 
SEATTLE -Phil Bradley, 
who entered the game with just 
one hit in 22 at-bats, and Rey 
Quinones hit home runs in the 
first two innings Tuesday night 
and the Seattle Mariners held 
on for a 6-4 victory over the Cal­
ifornia Angels. 
Bradley hit a two-run homer 
in the first and Quinones led off 
the second with his first home 
run in a Mariners' uniform for 
a 4-1 Seattle lead off Califor­
nia's Don Sutton, 0-2, who 
lasted just 2 2-3 innings. 
Right-hander Scott 
Bankhead, 2-0, acquired by the 
Mariners in an off -season 
trade, went six innings, allow­
ing two runs and seven hits. 
Giants 3, Padres 2 
SAN DIEGO -Bob Melvin hit 
his fourth homer of the year as 
the San Francisco Giants 
defeated the Padres 3-2 Tues­
day night. 
The victory boosted the 


-~-----~-------~ ~----·--------------...-, 
Wednesday, April 15, 1987 -page 12

The Observer 
SMC tennis drops two matches to Kalamazoo 
By ELLEN WILLSON "I've had ten three-setters 
Sports Writer this season and I made up my 
mind this wasn't going to be an­
The Saint Mary's tennis team other one," commented Block. 
dropped a hard-fought decision The doubles teams added two 
against Division III, tenth­more victories to their list of 
ranked Kalamazoo College credentials with the team of 
Tuesday at Angela Athletic Block and Buffy Heinz winning 
Facility. 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 over Velarde and 
"I'm very happy with the Beth Blachut, and the pairing 
way they played but I think we of Charlene Szajko and Sandy 
should have won," said Head Hickey downing Katie Marrit 
Coach Deb Laverie. and Linda Hsi 6-3, 1-6. 6-1. 
"The same thing happened The Belles are a very young 
as before, the other team just team with captain Kim 
played the big points better Drahota as the only senior on 
than we did," added Laverie. the squad. Drahota lost a tough 
One highlight of the match match against Blachutt with a 
was the Belles number-one score of 6-4 ,3-6, 6-2. 
singles player Jennifer Block's "We have a young team but 
victory over Kalamazoo's all we need to do is remain pa­Bookstore Basketball play was wet-n-wild yes­
Teresa Velarde with a close tient and gain some more con­terday, as heavy rains poured down on third 
score of 7-6, 7-6. fidence," said Laverie. round games. Highlights of yesterday's men's 

Hoyer's homecoming one hit away 
Associated Press Moyer's only other appear­"I was thinking about it in ance in Philadelphia was last the seventh and eighth in­
PHILADELPHIA -The only June, a week after he had been nings," he said. "But I felt fine thing better than pitching a no­recalled by Chicago. He was going out in the ninth. I was a hitter would be doing it before rocked for six runs in 2 2-3 in­little upset with myself because your family and friends. And nings as the Phillies went on to I got the pitch to Samuel up a that's almost what happened to a 19-1 victory. little. It's a guessing game and Jamie Moyer. "I wanted to prove to my Samuel guessed right." 
The Chicago Cub's left­teammates and to all of my He said he was getting a little bander, who grew up in nearby people that were here that I tired since it was his first start Souderton, held the Philadel­could pitch in Philadelphia," of the year. phia Phillies hitless through Moyer said. "After my last "But I thought I'd just keep 
~ eight innings Monday night start here, there might have going after them and see what before yielding a clean single been some doubts." happened," he said. "It was to Juan Samuel leading off the kind of interesting and fun to bottom of the ninth. Moyer, who was 7-4 last hear the crowd cheering for It would have been the first season, was pitching in his 18th me." no-hitter ever pitched at Vet­major league game. He struck Moyer's popularity in eran's Stadium, which opened out 12 and walked six. After Philadelphia was best summed in 1971. Samuel's hit, a walk and an­up by the spoiler, Samuel. When Samuel came to the other hit followed and Lee plate, virtually everyone in the Smith came in to save the 5-2 "That's the first time I've stadium, including Moyer's victory. ever been booed in Philadel­parents and a multitude of phia for getting a hit," said the friends, was cheering for the Moyer, who pitched three second baseman. 24-year-old. In fact, Samuel's consecutive no-hitters in high single was followed by em­school, was aware of the no­phatic but good-natured hitter but said he really felt no 
Lacrosse
booing. pressure. 
continuedfrom page 16 
against pornography, beating an excellent job." Women the Penthouse Players, 21-11. O'Leary is anxious to get his continuedfrom page 16 Quioxic QuintThe Final Chap­team on the field and he will 
ter defeated the Funniest have plenty of opportunities to The Thing Things, 21-11. Not People We Know, 15-4, and do so. After break, the Irish will 
Afraid of Public Ridicule also Loretta and the Lindettes won 
play four games in eight days.· won for the second time, nar­by forfeit over Marion Streep "Again, the key will be to 
rowly beating Four Who Do and Mansion Party-FridO:Y· play well," O'Leary concluded. 
Louise, 12-10. 
"Of course we want to win 
No Mercy showed none as Women's Bookstore action them all, but the crucial games 
they easily beat Four Grains of continues tomorrow with more are the conference games. If Salt and a Speck of Pepper, 21-second round action beginning we develop some consistency
6. The wholsome team of 
at 4:00 on the Stepan Courts at over the next two weeks, we Kukla, Fran and Ollie and Two Notre Dame and the Angela could be a big factor in the con­
Other Players struck a blow Courts at Saint Mary's. ference race." 
The 1988 Dome 
is now accepting applications for the following editorial positions: 
Managing  Extracurriculars  
Copy  Hall Life  
Sports  Academics  
Events  Index  
Seniors  Photo  

Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune thru Thursday 
Then there were 64... 
Lyona 12Bookstore Tournament 

Team No. 320 over If That's All We Get. We'll Do It Ourselves by 6Tueaday's Reaulta A Priest, A Nerd, & 3 Dudes over Team No. 47Stepan 1 

by 9

Yacht Club over Team No. 186 by 11 Uncoachables Ill over 4 People & a Short Fat5 Really Cool Guys over Crocodile by 13 Guy by 5Tearn No. 451 over Return ol the MBA by 12 Malandros over Disgrace by 15
Stepan 2 Team No. 471 over 4 O'so Fireman 
Wednesday'a GamesEast Side Runners over The Team that Time Stepan 1Forgot by 4 4:45 -Missing Link vs. Who's Next4 Midgets and a Dwarf over Playing ~~· Veranda, 5:30 -Minahoonies vs. We Don't Dribble

22-20 
6:15 -Da' Brothers of Manhood vs. Killer Bees Stepan 2 

Stepan 3 4:45 -Josephus & the Ethiopian vs. Ed Smerciak We Don't Dribble over the Bosses by 3 5:30 -Heat Miser vs. Team No. 421 Mlnahoonies over Captain Kirk by 13 6:15 -Swill N-Swish vs. Verkler's Construction Tearn No. 208 over The Board Bangers by 9 Stepan 3 
Stepan 4 4:45 -New Order vs. Cop Car Thief Heat Miser over C. J~ and the Rastafarians by 5:30 -Yacht Club vs. East Side Runners 
7 6:15 -VGD II vs. Bali-Headed Freak Daddies Team No. 421 over Axe Wounds by 11 Stepan 4 Leone's Stallions over Team No. 51 by 11 4:45 -Rosie Palms vs. N.D. Law 
Stepan 5 5:30 -Team No. 208 vs. Leone's Stallions Put It In the Hole Chief over 5 Hot Dogs .. 6:15 -Put It In the Hole, Chief vs. Fill It Up Condiments by 11 Stepan 5 Okra over Liberace, Len Bias & 3 Other Bad 4:45 -Okra vs. Skoad Men Cracks, 28-26 5:30 -Team No. 644 vs. 4 Fags & a Zambia 
6:15 -Team No. 451 vs. 5 Reiaiy Cool Guys Stepan 6Stepan 6 4:45 -Mr. Coffey vs. We Pack Extra BaggagePuck over Skoad Men by 4 5:30 -Dead Chicks vs. 5 Guys From CarrolFill It Up over 4 Guys ... Newt by 6 6:15 -Play on... Veranda vs. Team No. 471Bookatore 9 Bookstore 9Jus' Tofu over Oliver North & 4 Other~~· by 4 4:00 -Return of Fugitive Guy vs. CorporateReturn ol the Fugitive Guy over Cotton Club by Raiders

5 
4:45 -4 Slamma Jamma vs. Mr. & Mrs. MartyAir Daggers over Ten 9f Us by 3 BullfrogToo Muchin Fuch over Just When You Thought 5:30 -Air Daggers vs. Notre Demonsby 2 

6:15 -Cubs Lose Again vs~ TWL 

Bookatore 10 Bookatore 10 
4:00 -Jus' Tofu vs. Roger's Meat Users All the President's Men over The Edge by 8 
4:45 ·7 Guys Who Still Can't Add vs~ We Don't 

Dribble Before We Shoot Notre Demon's over Groundskeepers, 26-24 
Raging Meat Users over Ivan Boesky... by 2 5:30 ~Party at Chips vs. Harmless Pranks 
6:15 -Too Muchin Fuch vs. All the President's by 15 Corporate Raiders over The Cunning Conquists 
Men Lyona 11 
Lyons 11 

4:45 -Gods & Men at ND vs. Malandros by 6 
Gods & Men at N.D. over Yellow Subs X·Meats 
5:30 -Top Guns vs. Team No. 320 Otis Hurts over Myth Gods of Love & Destruction 
6:15 -Team No. 456 vs. Carte Blanche by 9 
Lyona 12 Top Guns over We Eat Cannibals by 2 
4:45 -Otis Hurts vs. Uncoachables Ill SOMFAW over What the Hell is Rasta Anyway? 
5:30 -Grover & the Boys vs. Flying Dingleberries by 17 
6:15 -SOMFAW vs. A Priest, A Nerd, & 3 Dudes 


DOME 1987 Distribution 
April 21-24 12:30-4:30 pm Outside Stepan Center 
(inside if rain) 

Tuesday -Seniors Wednesday -Juniors Thursday Sophomores Friday -Freshmen 
please bring id 

i MAWM2 iiiSihiiifdii Uilid iiiM IBMI&J tM iiiMiM A AW 

Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 13

The Observer 
Golfers take second place in Indy 

But the sad seven who don't make the playoffs can take con­solation in the fact that they all enter the draft lottery and have a shot at getting the first pick of next year's college crop. Just something for them to think about in the middle of the month it takes the NBA to finish its playoffs. 
There's just something about playing 80 and 82 games to eliminate five and seven teams that doesn't wash. Theoretical­ly, they could just have teams pick out of a hat to draw an opponent and start the playoffs right away, instead of wasting six months of regular season to knock out the basement­dwellers. 
But that wouldn't make these teams much money, would it? And if the playoffs would be shorter, the teams would make less money, wouldn't they? It's fine for these sports to do anything to help the financial stability of the leagues, but enough is enough. 
Let's cut those winter sports season a bit, or return the playoffs to what they ought to be, a reward for fine regular season play. If there are a lot of games played, the truly good teams should rise to the top, so fewer teams need to be invited to the playoffs. If there are fewer games in the regular season, more teams can be let in to account for the shorter time period. 
The length of the basketball and hockey seasons hurts in­centive, since almost all teams make the playoffs, and it les­sens the quality of the products since it requires players to coast some nights because of fatigue. 
And it's also confusing to watch the NBA Finals and Stanley Cup Finals in 90-degree heat. 

By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
Being a runner-up is akin to being a bridesmaid. You con­gratulate the bride but wish it was the other way around. 
The Notre Dame golf team did the congratulating, but un­like poor Greg Norman who must be looking for a good psy­chiatrist, second-place was not at all a disappointment. Playing in the Indianapolis In­tercollegiates this past weekend, the Irish took a runner-up trophy home after firing a team total 806 that was 18 strokes behind runaway win­ner Ball State. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan said bad weather (lightning, cold temperatures and winds) kept team scores higher than they normally would have been. However, the weather did not dampen the linksters' game as they easily outdistanced Mil­likin University by 13 shots to take second. 
"We're pleased in taking the runner-up trophy," said O'Sullivan. "It certainly is not something to be disappointed about. Besides, we finished ahead of some good golf pro­grams, which can be easily overlooked when you don't finish first." 
The Irish were led by Norm Campbell's 158 (79-79) for the 36-hole event. Close behind was Pat Mohan who checked in with a 160 (77-83). The rest of the squad finished, in order, with Doug Giorgio's 162 (83-79), Chris Bona (85-80) and John Connelly (81-84) both at 165, and Dick Connelly with a 170 total (81-89). The hi-score in each round was not figured into the team score. 
The rest of the tournament field saw Wisconsin­Whitewater finishing fourth (819), followed by Franklin Col­lege at 820. Cincinnati took sixth with a two-day total of 825, Wittenberg was next at 827, DePauw was eighth at 844, Evansville finished with an 865, and bringing in the rear was Butler at a disappointing 886. 
The Irish will need the mo­mentum gained in Indianapolis as they head for Ohio State this weekend. The Kepler Invita­tional awaits the Irish and 22 other hopefuls. O'Sullivan calls this tournament the grand­daddy of them all. 
"The Kepler is the most pres­tigious golf tournament in the Midwest," he said. "All the big 
Belles pull out twinbill 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The home field advantage proved favorable for the St. Mary's softball team as they combined strong hitting with tough defense to squeak by St. Francis in a doubleheader Monday, 8-7 and 6-5. 
The Belles' offensive attack was s..,arked by Trish Tierney, Janine Adamo and Marge Reynolds who connected for two hits apiece. 
St. Francis scored six runs in the fifth inning to take the lead, 7-5. Consistent hitting enabled the Belles' to rally for three 

~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ 

lists 
6502 Grape Rd. University Center 
272-0009 
NO APPOINTMINT NICISSAirT HAIRCUTS 
S3so $350
MEN'S SHAM!IOO
WOMEN'S SET OR CHILDREN'S ILOWSTYLE COMI'Ln. 
-----------------·-4~-·-·--------·---·..~~ 
~~~~Ss'f:LE $700 iET $1 795
............ 
finislti119 rintt & blewstylt. llllr cwt &styli.
----·--·-........................................~--~ NBIS OUII SPECIALTY Fr.-«*orr8t .....'::11:Cll1am tllsitiS ...,.,...,..,. com mii!MIIIo _..... "'llle fllllst two t ·••1'11111..._ FEELS so WELLA PERFECT
I 
LIVELY PERM CONTROL 
$2 5 00 
Stlf.linlillt 
§2 3 so "-R.t te
,_. illdiiiU ............. 
...,.., C1ll ........ 
w ....., *'itriL cut & style. (R~pilrty S35) 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. B:G0-8:30

lists 
Sat. 
a:oo-7:30


6502 Grape Rd. University Center 
Open272-0009 SundaySunday & Holiday Pnces 
10:Q0-4:00

Slightly Higher 
runs in the sixth and tt was Adamo's game winning RBI that allowed the Belles to chalk one up in the wins column. 
Winning pitcher Tammy Shelor fired six strike-outs from the mound and did a fine job of keeping St. Francis run­ners of the bases. 
In the second game the Belles attacked early, scoring all six runs in the first two innings. The Belles had to rely on strong fielding to allow them the vic­tory and the sweep. 
St. Mary's defense was tested in the fifth inning when St. Francis drove four runs across the plate and came within three runs of a victory. 
powers from the Big Ten, MAC, and the four major indepen­dents will showcase their abil­ities." 
The Scarlet course, home to several NCAA Championships, including this year's, is a par 72 with a course rating of 73.9. O'Sullivan acknowledged the Scarlet course is a tremendous challenge. Ohio State, the host and favorite, recruits well in large part because of the beau­tiful facility they have, accor­ding to O'Sullivan. 
The 54-hole Kepler will be a true test of how far the Irish have come since the fall. 
"This weekend," said O'Sullivan, "will really prove to me how good this team can play in the face of top quality competition. 
"Realistically I would be content with a Top Ten finish, which I would call the sign of a good season's work. We have three of the five starters playing in their first Kepler ever, but if we can get consis­tency from the opening tee shot to the final putt I see us finish­ing well." 
The Irish will get their oppor­tunity to show that they are a team to reckon with this weekend. 

But now we arrive at the hockey and basketball playoff fields and things get a little strange. Our playoff cup run­neth over with nearly every team that dons the same color uniforms qualifying. 
In the NHL, 16 of 21 teams go on to post-season play. This means a team must win four series to capture the Stanley Cup title. With the brilliant in­stitution of seven-game series even in the first round, a team can play 28 games after the season is over. 
The NBA is another culprit of making a mockery of the playoff idea. Seven NBA teams out of 23 do not move on to post­
season play. These series start
out as best-of-five series, but quickly go to seven-game sets. 
Hawks to see shuffle after playoff tumble 
Associated Press  eludes a new coach.  The Blackhawks fell in a three-game sweep to Toronto in  
CHICAGO -The Chicago Blackhawks, embarrassed by losing four straight games in the NHL playoffs to Detroit,  "I think we will have a major shakedown," team owner Bill Wirtz said Tuesday. "Our fans deserve better than they got at the end of this season."  the playoffs last season when the first round was best-of-five. This season, they lost four con­secutive games in the best-of­seven format to the Red Wings.  

------------------------------~~ 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10 pm Sunday May 3, at 3:10 p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 

The Observer Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 14 

Irish backs look tough during spring practice 
By MARTY STRASEN We've played two and have two Assistant Sports Editor left to take a better look." Thus far, sophomore tail­
Chances are you won't be back Mark Green appears to seeing too many 1,000-yard rus­be the favorite in the race for hers in the Notre Dame back­a starting position at tailback. field during the upcoming foot­The fleet-footed Green led the ball season. team in rushing last year with 
For first-year Irish running 406 yards on 96 carries, and has backs coach Jim Strong, that played with the first team in might just be a blessing in dis­each of the first two scrim­guise. After all, there are only mages. so many yards to go around in Last Saturday, Green led the 
Spring 
Football 
'87 Anthony Johnson (face down), shown here in spring football drills. Marty Strasen reviews scoring a touchdown against Purdue last the Irish running back situation at left. .. season, has been moved to the fullback position 
a backfield stocked with talent. team in both rushing and recep­Add the fact that flanker Tim tions, picking up 65 yards on 12 Alonzo is really pushing hard scrimmage because of a minor formations in our offense,"
Brown carried the ball out of carries while hauling in four at improving himself as a foot­eye injury suffered a few weeks Strong says, "so we're not the wishbone formation more passes for 31 yards. ball player." ago. going to be a true wishbone than five times per game last "He's a tremendous ath­"Johnson has made the
With all that potential at the team. Sure we'll run the wish­season (Mark Green averaged lete," Strong says. "Mark has tailback slot, as well as a pair transition from tailback to ful­bone, but we're a team that's less than nine carries at tail­that ability to sneak right past of top recruits coming next lback and is probably just a tad going to make other teams back), and one begins to realize everyone with his pure speed, year in Ricky Watters and behind Braxston and Pernell defend a lot of different forma­
that the one-man-show days of and has done a great job with Tony Brooks, freshman An­right now because he got poked tions. We'll utilize all the dif­Allen Pinkett are gone for good his fundamentals this spring." thony Johnson has been moved in the eye and missed a scrim­ferent formations to our advan­in the offensive backfield. Green's main competition 
mage," explains Strong. "But tage."
Bring on the team concept. for a spot on the No.1 team this he's a good, solid, consistent As for the spring, Strong says 
In fact, Strong and Head spring comes from two players football player and it's just a a coach can never be com­Coach Lou Holtz have not yet with rehabilitated knees-­matter of him getting more ex­pletely satisfied. decided on a final depth chart D'Juan Francisco and Alonzo perience in learning the posi­"I don't think you ever ac­this spring, and only one prac­Jefferson. The former injured tion. He's running the ball very complish all you want to ac­tice, one scrimmage and the his knee last spring and carried well right now." complish in spring practice,"annual Blue-Gold game the ball only 18 times last Johnson carried the ball 80 he explains. "I think we've remain. season, while the latter suf­times for 349 yards (second to made some progress. We're 
"We set a depth chart from fered a serious injury in Sep­Green in rushing) last season getting better in the fundamen­time to time throughout the tember of 1985 and missed vir­and added five touchdowns. tal areas and those basic spring," says Strong, "but we tually his entire junior year Taylor ran the ball 69 times for things.still have Thursday's scrim­before carrying the ball 19 284 yards and five touchdowns "I look at the spring as a mage and the spring game to times last year as a senior. in 1986, while Banks picked up chance for me to get to know take a look at how well people "I've really been pleased 209 yards on 49 carries. the players and evaluate them. 
Alonzo Jefferson 
are doing. When our spring with Alonzo's effort," Strong The Irish once again will I've had the chance to let each practice schedule is finished, says. "Here's a young man who to fullback, where he is running utilize the wishbone in addition of them know what we expectthat's when we'll sit down and has rehabilitated his knee. and with senior Pernell Taylor and to a number of other backfield of them, and now we just goevaluate who did what. has really continued to work classmate Braxston Banks. formations in 1987, and Strong from there." 
"Until then, even though the hard both on the field and in Taylor and Banks have been is familiar with Holtz' offensive And from the looks of thingsnumber of practices has run the weight room. sharing time with the No. 1 unit philosophy from their coaching as the spring sessions wind down, we've still got half of our "His toughness and compet­this spring, while Johnson has days together at Minnesota. down, the Irish running backs scrimmages ahead of us yet. itive instincts are excellent. only seen action in the last "We have a lot of different might, literally, be going far. 
and steamrolled into the fourth r:Bring ad to Dan or Greg today for round with a thorough steam­ing of 5 Hot Dogs and Assorted 
~;!~2.gel6 
Condiments, winning by the 
ADUATES:
nearly unplayable conditions. score of 21-10. 
"I think the rain was actually Also, in two of the longest to our advantage," said a games thus far, OKRA :::s drenched Hanley after the squeaked by Liberace, Len -CD 
Q) GET
game. "The puddles and slick Bias, and Three Others ... , 28­court allowed us to put pres­26, in a well-played contest on sure on their guards, and we Stepan 5, and Too Muckin' 0 
got a lot of our first-half points Fuch battled past Just When 0 
> ,.... ca THE CREDIT ""' 
off turnovers. But in the second You Thought ... , 22-20. This one 
....

half, it was so bad that you hour and 45-minute slugfest 0 either couldn't see the basket nearly ended up literally · tn
"C 

YOU DESERVE
or the ball slipped out of your meeting that description, when :r.. 
CD hand on the release." members of both squads felt ca I» Hanley's description wasn't that fouling was getting a little :::s ­
I»

just an excuse for his ·o-of-9 out of hand. The game had to From your 
:::s

second half shooting, it was be moved from the Bookstore ....
college grad 
also extremely accurate. to Lyons after the first ninety (.) 
" specialist -En
Several turnovers in many minutes because of darkness. ·-:r.. 1\)
games were 'forced' because Monk Malloy shot a dismal 
.a 
0

the ball wouldn't return to the 0-of-8 from the field, but All The ca 
0

dribbler after splashing in a President's Men dulled The 
LL

sizable . puddle. Edge anyway, 21-13. Zack 
<

In other games involving top Schrantz led the President's w I» teams, Leone's Stallions had Men with six points. Another w 
Greg Kantauskas Dan Meachum c:
little trouble in routing Team team that could surprise based 
a: CD
No. 51, 21-6, behind Gary Sass' on early showings, Corporate 
LL 




8-of-15 shooting. Stallions' Cap­Raiders, employed a balanced tain John Leone feels good attack spearheaded by Cedric about his team's chances, but Figaro's five points and in­realizes it's an uphill battle timidating presence inside to from here on in. mute the Cunning Linguists, 21­
Minahoonies continued to 6. roll as they transported Cap­In other games yesterday, tain Kirk and Four ... , 21-8. Led Mercy Dearmond shot 8-of-18 by Irish football players Tom as the East Side Runners Gorman and Pete Graham, trimmed The Team that Time Minahoonies has looked Forgot, 21-17; 5 Really Cool dominating in all of its games Guys, behind the outside shoot­thus far and figures to be one ing of Terry Andrysiak, bagged of the major contenders for the Crocodile, 21-8; and Otis Hurts title. Put It In the Hole, Chief, brought the Mythological Gods who upset seeded Good To Go of Love and Destruction back in the first round, hasn't let up down to earth, 21-12. 
For this special GMAC financing, all you need is your diploma or letter of graduation, proof of a job, a low down payment, and the ability to meet monthly payments. 
Bring this ad and get $400 off the purchase price, or a 90-day deferral on your payments, as a graduation present from GMAC and Rafferty's. 
(Eligible 6 months before graduation.) 

RAFFERTy·s
/!~PONTIAC • BUICK • GMC • CHRYSLER • PlYMOUTH • DODGE 
__./ \ "' 616·683·3920 616·684-8200 1102 S. 11th St., (U.S. 31·33 N.), Niles, Ml 
.._____•With purchase of Rust Proofing ______.. 
':11:'~~~~--------------------------------------------------------•W•e•d•n.es•d•a•y,•A•p•r•il•1•5,•1•98•7•-•p•ag•e•1
..5 Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 




Campus 
11:30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m.: Economics Depar­tment Labor Workshop, Patrick Rooney, ND graduate student in economics, thesis presentation, 131 Decio 
12:10 p.m.: Smith Kline and French Laboratories Distinguished Lecture in Bioengineering, "Bioligocal Closure -The Use of Adapted Microorganisms for the Decontamination of Soils-Slugdes at CERCLAtRCRA Sites," by Dr. Ralph Por­tier, Director of the Aquatic1ndustrial Toxicology Lab., Lousiana State Univer­sity, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, sponsors: Depts. of Biological Sciences and Civil Engineering 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
2:30p.m.: Smith Kline and French Lab­oratories Distinguished Lecture in Bioen­gineering, "Packed Bed Immobilized Microbe Reactors for the Continuous Biotreatment of Industrial Effluents and Contaminated Groundwaters," by Dr. Ralph J. Portier, 303 Cushing 
2:30-5:00 p.m. : Tax Assistance Pro­gram, Social Concerns Coffeehouse 
3:00 p.m.: Tennis NDW vs. Western Michigan, Courtney Courts 3:30p.m.: LaCrosse, ND vs. Lake For­est, Alumni Field 
4:00p.m.: Graduate Violin Recital, Tim Kopf, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art; for more information con­tact Eric Kuehner 239-6201 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Electron-Tunneling Into Localized Traps," by Dr. E. Tack, Yale University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
6:00p.m.: Sigma XI Awards1nitiation Reception (Wine and Cheese) Faculaty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, guests are welcome 
6:30p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop, "Communicating in Close Relationships," by Jack Turner and Nancy Hansen, UND Counselors, 300 Uni­versity Counseling Center 
7:00p.m.: Presentation, "Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form," by Kitty Arnold, director Career and Placement Services, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Veal Parmigiana 
Shells wl Italian Meat Sauce 
Sesame Baked Cod 
Speidano Romano 
Saint Mary's 
Hawaiian Ham Slices 
Chicken Breast wl Honey Glaze 
Shrimp Eggrolls 
Deli Bar 


BUY 
~AMERICAN 
OBSERVER
CANCER 
~SOCIETY~ 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"Won't talk, huh? ... Frankie! Hand me that scaler." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Feeler 5 Cycle of a 
kind 10 Buddhist language 14 Ripening 
factor 15 Speechify 16 Literary 
conflict 17 District 18 Something 
moving fast 20 Pitchman's 
talk 22 High-pitched 23 Large groups 261di­28 Harmonizes 29 Squatters 33 Bellow 34 Slangy 
negative 35 "Annabel Lee" 
author 36 Hardly ever 41 Anc. lang. 42 Sheep shelter 43 Capable of 44 Component 46 Settler 49 Ostrich look­
alike: var. 50 Rebels 51 Move slowly 54 Resided 55"-Blue" 58 Lat. abbr. 62 Indian 63 Vacuous 64 Gambling 
town 65 Brick carriers 66 Zesty tastes 67 River of 
Hades 
DOWN 1 La-, Bol. 2 In the past 3 Author 
Deighton 4 Stress 5 On wheels 6 More-(ap­
proximately) 

C1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
7 Newman of 
films 8 Summer: Fr. 9-Plaines 
10 Ma or pa 11 Author James 12 Onus 13 Stygian 19 "Valse-" 21 Corral 23 Conditional 
freedom 24 Having no key 25 Ancient spice 26 Indigo 27 Diner's card? 30 Epic poem 31 Football fan 32 Gentlemen 
in Sonora 34 Lincoln 37 Pre-refrigera­
tor workers 38 "And Then There Were -" 39 Aleutian island 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 

40 Ghoulish TV 
family 45 Brawls 46 Handling 47 Papas and Ryan 48 Iran export 51 Author Sholom 52 Partial: pref. 
53 Reared 54 School VIP 56 Islet 57 Genetic 
letters 59 Hanoi holiday 60 At all 61 Smoked salmon 


Stranded in South Bend for Easter??
ESCAPE 
on the SAB Chicago Trip~ Friday~ April17. Leave N.D. at noon~ Leave Chicago at 1:00 am Costs only $5.00 Sign-up and bring payment to SAB office, 
2nd floor LaFortune by Thursday. 



I 
~ Wednesday, April15, 1987-page 16 
I SRorts 
Bookstore battles rain, fourth round to begin 
By PETE SKIKO The third round of play ended Sports Writer yesterday with top seeds Jus' Tofu, Leone's Stallions, Min­Bookstore Basketball XVI nahoonies, 5 Really Cool Guys,
has run the gamut of ridiculous . and Corporate Raiders moving weather conditions after yes­on with relative ease. The terday, barring meteor major scare thrown at the 
showers or typhoons in the up­seeds was by Oliver North and coming few weeks. the 4 ... , who endured the worst 
Bookstore Basketball XVI 



talented, scrappier squad, eight points, didn't mind the 
Bookstore Basketball XVInone of the top teams slipped yesterday. see BINGO, page 14 
Women's tournament continues 
By THERESA KELLY Burger had another explana­lightning, and thunder. Jim 
Sports Writer tion: "The weather conditions Baker's Other Women lost a 
were on our side. " tough game to Return of the A trend is developing in Wo-Speaking of the weather, the Futors, 11-9, cutting the gamemen's Bookstore Basketball. next time there is "a chance of short, as many others did, be­As shown by the second day of showers toward evening," cause of the storm. The last 
action, the teams with the Bookstore competitors 
should game at Stepan saw Team 25 
----~------------------------­
clobbering. Vanity 5, 15-2.
Women's The action at Saint Mary's Angela Courts was also excit­
Bookstore 
ing, as Larry Bird and What's in Her Nest squeaked out a vic­
Basketball 
tory over Something From Hell, 11-9. The Hoosier 
longer names are winning, the bring snorkels and swim fins. Lawyers?? defeated Five longer the better. One game was apparently Bonus Chicks Who Slay Them­On Stepan Court 8 yesterday, halted in order to remove the selves and A Duck, 21-4, and We Should Have Won did, worms from the court. The Bow Derelicts could beating Team 80, 21-5, in a Other games in yesterday's manage only one basket in game highlighted by plenty of combination basketball!diving their 11-1 loss to Who Needs physical action. Ann Reilly led competition saw Four People High Heels Anyway. Team the winners with 8 points, and Who Can't Play Quarters and Number 5 had an easy victory Kathy Burger chipped in 7. One Who Won't Let Them ear­over the Hard Liquors, 21-5. Winning coach Pete ning a hard-fought win over The Fast Break Five continued 
Fitzgerald explained the vic­Hello My Name Is Sue, 21-10 on their winning ways, beating
tory, saying "We won because Stepan 5. Both teams played 
see Women, page 12
We Should Have Won." tough despite the wind, rain, 
Irish lacrosse to face Lake Forest 
By CHRIS DALLAVO O'Neill feels that the team is have to play extremely hard to Sports Writer ready to break out, and Lake beat them." Forest is a good time to do it. O'Neill feels that the IrishRain, rain, go away--and stay "We've been playing well, 
are ready to go into Granville, away. The Notre Dame but we need to go out and dom­Ohio, and beat the Big Red of lacrosse team, coming off of a inate for a whole game," 
Denison. big weekend win over Kenyon, O'Neill said. "We've got to get "There's no question we will will take on Lake Forest today the lead right away, and not 
have to have a good game to at 3:30 on Cartier field, rain or look back." win," O'Neill commented.
shine. Wednesday's contest will be "We'll have to play aggressive­
"We'll play in the rain," com­the first Great Lakes Lacrosse ly, but the crucial thing will be 
mented Irish Head Coach Rich Conference game for the Irish, to minimize our mistakes.
O'Leary. "We need to put to­so it has added importance. 
Denison is an up-and-down
gether a solid four quarters, "Obviously we want to start team, and hopefully we canregardless of the weather. with a win," O'Leary said, "but force them into some bad situ­We've been too inconsistent a win is not enough. We've got ations." lately, and we really need to a lot of games in the next three A key for both of the upcom­play a strong all-around weeks, and we need to play well ing games will be the play ofgame." and develop some kind of con­freshman goalie Jeff Glazier. 
The Irish will have to control sistency." After being forced into playing 
the tempo of the game, as the time early, Glazier has become Foresters have the potential to Over Easter Break, the Irish a rallying point for the Irish. 
score a lot of goals. 
will take on powerhouse "Jeff has put in an incredible "We need to control the ball, Denison, a team which they amount of work to improve his and keep it away from their of­narrowly defeated last year. 
play, and it has definitely paid fense," noted O'Leary. "I'm "Denison is consistently one off," noted O'Neill. "He has confident we can score a lot of of the top two teams in the Mid­come up with some big saves 
goals if we have to, but I don't west," noted O'Leary. "They 
to spark the team, and has done want to be in that position." are very well-coached and they 
see LACROSSE, page 12
Notre Dame co-captain Dave rely on a balanced attack. We'll 
Yesterday's deluge of rain of the day's weather in bowing coupled with the blizzard of two reluctantly to Jus' Tofu, 21-17. weeks ago have combined to Oliver North stretched last make this year's tournament year's final16 entry to the limit one of the more inclement in in a game played in nearly recent Bookstore history. ankle-deep water because of a Amazingly though, despite relentless downpour. pouring rains that could have Tofu's Matt "Bingo" Hanley, easily rattled a precision shoot­who had the hot hand in the first Bob Jones of the Groundskeepers of Busch Gar­ing team and favored a less half and led all scorers with dens goes up for a layup in yesterday's 
action. The 
NBA, NUL playoffs invite too many guests 
Ah, the signs of spring. Bookstore Basketball action abundant. Baseball getting into high gear. Golf and tennis balls appearing in real life, not just televised from warm­weather cities. And NBA and NHL playoff action getting underway. 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
That's right, NBA and NHL playoff action is just getting underway. 
The National Basketball Association playoffs really haven't even started yet, but in another week the NBA will begin its playoff schedule. The National Hockey League started its playoffs last week. 
And not a moment too soon. 
Our favorite winter (and half of fall and spring) sports are winding down to a close. The long haul from those openers last fall, during the first half of football season, through the frozen tundra of winter, has finally gotten these leagues to the playoffs. The climax to another big season is just on the horizon. 
But that horizon is quite an optical illusion. 
The seasons are not going to end soon. Some question whether they end at all, or just randomly roll together into one long, continuous season. There are at least two reasons for this dragged-out process. 
First, the seasons in both sports are frightfully long. These sports eat up seven months with their regular seasons and playoffs. The NHL regular season is 80 games long and the NBA regular season requires 82 games to complete. 
Major League Baseball, by comparison, takes seven months to complete its schedule as well, but its schedule has 162 games. Of course, baseball games are played nearly every day, and basketball and hockey only play about three times per week, partly because of the demand­ing nature of the sports, and partly because the three-game series format in baseball cuts down travel. 
But the question must be asked, what's the point to the regular season? 
Ideally, the point to the regular season is to play a large enough sample of games over a period of time to determine who the top teams are, and which of those top teams will reap the rewards of its success and make the playoffs. The best and luckiest of that group is crowned champion. 
But reality points in a much different direction. Baseball has remained traditional, allowing only the two division winners in each league to compete in the playoffs, while the National Football League allows the three division winners and two wild-cards from each conference to enter the battle for the Super Bowl. This seems to be a good formula as well. 
see PLA\'OFFS, page 13 







