
Lama leader -page 4 

VOL. XXI, NO. 108 TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1987 
the Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Defense experts called to develop verification system plan 
study details of proposals the direct interest to the basingAssociated Press United States will make to the countries." 
Soviets at Geneva arms talks. "Given the importance of 
WASHINGTON -The United The five countries invited to verification we envision future States, moving to complete a the talks are those providing meetings similar to today's, as proposed treaty eliminating sites for the U.S. intermediate­needed," Redman said. medium-range nuclear mis­range missiles that would be He said the United States was siles from Europe, summoned eliminated under the proposed represented at the meeting by defense experts from five treaty. H. Allen Holmes, director of the allied nations Monday to help Department spokesman State Department's bureau of devise a verification system to Charles E. Redman said the politico-military affairs. The present to the Soviets. participants discussed European delegates were iden­
Represent~tives from Bel­"verification provisions of an tified as officials with expertise gium, the ~etherlands, Brit­intermediate nuclear force in missile deployment and ain, West G rmany and Italy draft treaty. These verification other technical problems. met at the S te Department to provisions obviously have a Their names were not given. 

In the beginning was the word 
A Notre Dame student-turned-teacher peers up­Thursday the tutor c.omes to the center to in­ward with his grimacing pupil at the Hansel struct South Bend children in one of the Three Neighborhood Center. Every Tuesday and R's. 



Senate removes ticket from ballot 
By GREG LUCAS Lavery said that their ticket 
Pat Cooke, sophmore class 
Staff Reporter president. was recognized by Om­budsman before OBUD The freshman election ticket withdrew from governing the 
According to Lavery, Ric­
composed of Dan Kramer, election. 
hards was informed by her
Mark Lavery, Patty Richards "It says in the official elec­
counselor, who was not named, 
and Kim Clear was removed tion rules that an official list
that she was eligable to run.
from the ballot yesterday be­will be published by Om­
The election rules, said
cause of Richards' academic budsman and our names were
Lavery, stated that a candidate 
standing last semester. 
on that list" said Lavery. 
has to be a full-time under­
The members of the ticket graduate in good academic An ad hoc committee in thecame up before the Student standing. Good academic Judicial Board took over theSenate Monday night to ask standing is determined by the governing of the election afterpermission to substitute an­Freshman Year of Studies. OBUD withdrew. The commit­other candidate in the position tee, headed by Maria Cintron,
of treasurer and stay on the ballot. informed the freshmen candi­
"Ambiguities in the election
The motion to allow the ticket dates yesterday that Richards'
rules and inconsistent govern­
to stay on the ballot was academic standing disqualified 
ing of the election caused the
defeated by a vote of 10 to 3. A the ticket. 
confusion," said Lavery, who
motion was then unanimously 
was running for vice president. 
Lavery said he did not feelpassed to refund the $63 that they had been treated fairly by the candidates had spent on the Student Senate. "I do notcampaign expenses. Lavery said that he and his feel that the 13 members thatThe consensus of the Student running mates felt the ap­were present are representa­Senate was that a substitution proval of Richards' counselor tive of the entire Student Sen­could not be made at such a constituted official verification ate," he said. 
late time because the ticket by Freshman Year of Studies. would have been mis­"I think that it's a shame thatrepresented during the cam­the Student Senate would notpaign. "We weren't trying to get away allow next year's sophomore"The students are not elect­with anything, but (Richards) class to choose their own pres­ing (just one person), they're felt that she qualified," said ident," said Lavery. 
electing a whole ticket," said Lavery. 
President Reagan and Soviet draft treaty for discussion at leader Mikhail Gorbachev arms talks in Geneva. agreed in principle at their Verification sections of the Reykjavik, Iceland, summit draft were omitted, to give the last October to eliminate all but Reagan administration more 100 U.S. Pershing 2s, cruises time to decide on the toughness and Soviet SS-20s. The remain­of the measures. ing Soviet missiles would be deployed only in the Asian part Among the provisions repor­of the country and the U.S. tedly under consideration are weapons would be brought stringent on-site inspections home from Europe. that would allow each side to 
Gorbachev revived Soviet be certain that the opposing acceptance of the plan earlier weapons have been dismantled this month and the United and to allay suspicions that the States submitted most of a missiles have been redeployed. 


Harvard president named '87 speaker 
speaker."
By MARK PANKOWSKI The commencement exer­News Editor cises will be the last presided 
Harvard University Presi­over by Hesburgh, who is retir­dent Derek Bok will be Notre ing after 35 years as president. Dame's 1987 commencement Almost 2,500 students are speaker. candidates for degrees at the 
"He is considered the No. 1 graduation ceremonies, which 
educator by most people's will begin at 2 p.m. in the ACC judgement," said University arena. President Father Theodore During its winter meeting, Hesburgh, who described Bok the Board of Trustees' execu­as his "first and only" choice tive committee approved Res­to give the May 17 address. burgh's choice of Bok, Conklin 
Director of Public Relations said. 
and Information Richard Con­''They were very enthusias­
klin made the announcement tic about him," said Hesburgh. 
Monday. Bok's acceptance of Notre 
Bok, a fellow of the American Dame's invitation is a good 
Academy of Arts and Sciences, sign for the University, as he has been Harvard's president rarely gives commencement since 1971. addresses, Conklin said. 
Although he agreed to speak "<Bok) is president of what 
at commencement, Bok is considered the leading 
declined the honorary degree secular university," Conklin 
customarily given to the added. "I think his coming is a 
graduation speaker, Conklin tribute to Father Hesburgh's 
said. 
work at Notre Dame." 
"It is (Bok's) personal policy Bok is one of several leaders 
not to accept degrees,'' said being invited to the commence-
Conklin."But he said he would see SPEAKER, page 3 
come as the commencement 
110,000 invited to farewell 
Some 110,000 invitations Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.; have been mailed to Univer­Donald R. Keough, presi­sity of Notre Dame alumni, dent of the Coca-Cola Com­parents and friends to watch pany and chairman of Notre the valedictory of retiring Dame's Board of Trustees, President Father Theodore and Prof. William P. Sexton, 
M. Hesburgh on a satellite­vice president for University delivered telecast May 9. Relations. A videotape 
In what is believed to be retrospective on Father Res­the most extensive use of burgh's career, narrated by television by an educational Walter Cronkite, will also be institution, the hour long pro­part of the telecast. gram will be seen at 126 sites Fathers Hesburgh and in every state as well as Joyce have served in their Puerto Rico, Mexico and positions for 35 years, longer Canada. A total of 187 than any of their active col­alumni clubs will gather at leagues. Both will step down the downlink locations, following Notre Dame's May mainly hotels. 17 commencement. 
The telecast, to be aired at On campus the telecast 
8:00 p.m. (EST) from his­will be available to faculty toric Washington Hall on the and staff in the Center for campus will aso feature the Continuing Education, and retiring executive vice pres­the Senior Class is sponsor­ident, Rev. Edmund P. ing a downlink at the Ath­Joyce, C.S.C.; the president­letic and Convocation Center elect of the University, Rev. for all students. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 2 



In Brief 
Jane Pauley, co-host of NBC's "Today" show, says working with Bryant Gumbel is liberating beca~se s~e thinks of him as a peer and not a teacher as she .d1d :-v.1th Tom Brokaw. Pauley, in an interview in the April ed1bon of McCall's magazine, said she consider~d Brokaw her personal graduate school of broadcasting. He took pretty good care of me, not in a patronizing way. I was ~0 year.~ younger than he was and light years less exper1enced, · Pauley said. -Associated Press 
NASA scientists Monday dedicated what they called the world's most advanced computer system, saying it marks the start of a new era in aviation design and shows the space agency "is back on track." The sy~tem's im­portance to flight design rivals .the advent of wm~ tu~nels and the first flight by the Wnght. Brothers, sa1d V~ctor Peterson director of aerophys1cs at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center. -Associated Press 

Thepresident'sdaughtercalledforthecourt-martial of North and former National Security Adviser John Poin­dexter. Maureen Reagan said at the White House on Mon­day that her father was very angry when he saw the Tower Commission report, which she said showed that. aides had deceived him. She added, "a member of the Umted States military who lies to their commander-in-chief is guilty of treason and should be court-martialed. By omission or commission, they did not tell the president what they were doing. And that's a lie." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Don't Know What You Want To Do?" is the title of a presentation to be given by Joan Mcintosh of the Career and Placement Services office, today at 4 p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. ­
The Obse_r!Jer 
''MotherLoveand Child Death: A critical perspective on child survival in the Third World" will be presented by Nancy Scheper-Hughes of the department of ~nthro­pology, University of California at Berkeley, tomght at 
7:30 in Room 283 of Galvin Life Science Center. -The Observer 
Dr. William Mileski will speak on the transitions from Notre Dame to medical school to residency tonight at 8 in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre-Professional Society. 
The Observer 



This Arkansan explains origin of 'Southern paranoia' 
A new magazine called Southern began publishing last year out of my home town of Little Rock Arkansas. It's a major publication, chock full df glossy full-page ads from the likes of Sears Ford and Eastern Airlines. It's debut issue fe~tured a series called An Insider's Guide to the Species which covered such topics as "The Southern Mind," "The Southern Body," "The Southern Heart" and "The Southern Soul." 
If anything, the magazine demons~rates that the South sure thinks a lot about 1tself. The South is a region with a historic inferiority com­plex that continues today --something Souther­nenrs can't escape even when they're aware of it --which contributes in a large part to what my roommate once called my "Southern 
paranoia." . . 
A person afflicted by Southern paran01a 1s immediately sensitive to any derogatory remarks about the region. Or he may go over­
board on the Southern thing. I've even met Southern paranoids who've lived years in the North and claim they'll never go back to their origins, yet somehow they hang on to Southern accents thicker than how they used to speak. 
When I was nine I remember reading Charles Portis' novel True Grit, which was set in Arkansas and underlining all the references he made to my state. On a car trip to Florida the summer I was eight I wrote a song aout Arkansas because we were leaving it for other states. When my family would go skiing in Colorado with other Arkansans we kids would call the Hogs on the slopes --that means we would yell out "Whoo, pig, sooee!," the cheer for the Razorbacks --because we were proud of our home and sensed somehow we had to defend that pride in other parts of the country. 
Freshman year a friend of mine from Mic­higan heard I was from Little Rock. "You're having some bad racial problems down there, aren't you? I read about that high school in my history book." She shook her head disparaging­ly. "When are they going to let blacks into your schools?" She was speaking of Little Rock Central High, which made international news in 1957 when Governor Orval Faubus called out the National Guard to prevent integration. But ignorant comments like that perpetuate South­ern paranoia. What about Jones Beach, New York? That's a much more recent and equally repugnant example of racism. But here was this student from Michigan who had attended a practically all-white Catholic private high 

The Last Lecture Series continues tonight at 7 with "Hauntings" by Professor Penny Jameson, Saint Mary's department of psychology, at the Haggar College Center parlor. -The Observer 
Weather 
STUDY IN EUROPE 
The Unlvers'lty .<'f Louvaln (est. 1425). Leuven, Belgulm offers Complete programmea In Phlloaophy for the &fiOreea of B.A., M.A., and Ph.D plus 
a junior year abroad programme /..~AJI courses are In English /~
\1 Tuition Is 14.500 Belgium Franks ( :t $250) \8­
Wrtte to: a.or.tery EfliOIIeh Progtemmea· Kardlnul Merclerpleln 2, &3000 Leuven, Belgium 
K.U. Leuven

Pack up your jams for Spring Break because it will be sunny and cold today. High in the upper 20s to about 30. Clear and cold tonight. Low in the mid and upper teens. Becom­ing partly cloudy Wednesday. 

High in the low 30s. -AP 


Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor 

school reproaching me, who was a minority in my public high school that was 58 percent black, about integration. 
In Arkansas we have a saying: ''Thank God for Mississippi." And we only mean it half fasci­ciously. Without the state of Mississippi, our neighbor to the east, Arkansas would be dead last in every demographic category worth brag­ging about and dead first in every category worth laughing about --laughing, that is, if it's not your state that has to worry about the prob­lem. We are usually only first in things like killer tornados. On paper, the state cuts a tragi­comic figure. But the rest of the country sees only the woeful statistics; it doesn't see the state's beautiful lakes and mountains and the rich delta farmland where the blues were born. The rest of the country laughs where Arkansas and all Southerners--have immense pride, and therefore we become paranoid. 
This about this next time you make fun of someone's Southern accent. 


Design Editor . . . . . . . . Alice Kroeger Design Assistant ......................... . 
........................... Eileen Lawrence Typesetter .............. John Connelly .................................... Jose Novas News Editors ...... Mary Heilmann ................................... Chris Julka Copy Editor ... . . . . Diane Schroeder Sports Copy Editora ... Pete Gegen ...............................Marty Strasen Viewpoint Copy Editor ................ . .. .............................. Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout .... Heidi Traxler Typist .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ........ Ron Almiron SMC Day Editor. Sandy Cerimele Ad Design ................ Joan Wrappe Photographer ... Jennifer O'Donald 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile ot.ener is a member of Tile Auoclaled Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
WSND-FM is now accepting applications 
for ,Nqcturne Nightflight announcers. Radio experience is not required, just the ability and interest to build a good program. A personal album collection is helpful, too. 

Interested persons should read the notice posted in the WSND-FM lobby (Notre Dame) or ,the notice posted on the door of room 388, LeMans Hall (SMC) before applying. Deadline is Tuesday, March 22 for all applications. Call239·7342 or 283·2055 for .information. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 3 

Judicial Council discusses plans for improving hall judicial boards 


By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
New approaches to using the judical boards more effectively in each dormitory were dis­cussed at Monday night's Judi­cial Council meeting. 
According to Judicial Coord­inator Maria Cintron, some judicial boards were not active this year. The purpose of the meeting was to share informa­tion with hall rectors as well as judicial board chairmen. Ap­proximately five rectors atten­ded the meeting . 
Father Gerald Lardner, rec­tor of Grace Hall, spoke about the the role the Grace board plays in hall discipline. 
Lardner said he-handles any alcohol violations. "Anything else, I send to the J -board," said Lardner. 
Lardner said he lets the stu­dents set the standards for hall life because "the primary of-degrees to the presidents of



Speaker 
many other universities," he said. "I'm sure some of them
continuedfrom page 1 
have given commencement ad­ment ceremonies, said Con­dresses also." 
Conklin, however, could notklin. The leaders, who will recall any specific examples. 
receive honorary degrees, are from areas associated with Bok was named Harvard's Hesburgh's 35 years as presi­president three years later. His dent. most recent book, "Higher 
Invitations already have Learning," was published in been sent out to the potential 1986. honorary-degree recipients, Bok currently is a member who will number between 10 of the board of advisors for the and 12, he added. Their names National Endowment for the will be released later. Humanities. He is a past chair­
Bok is not the first university man of the American Council president to give the com-on Education and a member of mencement address at Notre 
the American Philosophical So­ciety.
Dame, Conklin said. "We've given honorary Bok received his B.A. from 
He remembers a lot about Notre Dame's greats-they were his classmates and colleagues. 
EDWARD FISCHER 
NafREDAME 



REMEMBERED 
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY 

.. 
Take it with you to the beach over Spring Break, or take it home to your parents. 
$12.95 Hammes Bookstore, 2ndf/oor 
"Well-written and bighearted, this book will be great for Notre Darners ... a touching portrait of Americana and one of America's legendary universities." 
Kirkus Reviews 
fense is an offense against resi­dents." 
Lardner added that he vi­olates du Lac by not allowing students to be punished by him. "I simply do not let them come to me," he said. 
Lardner said once the board has chosen a penalty, he will not challenge it. "I will not overrule a decision," he said. 
Grace Judicial Board Chair­man Chris Simms said the board emphasizes punish­ments involving an offender's time. 
"We don't deal in monetary fines because there are a lot of students here that monetary fines won't touch," Simms said. 
According to Brendan Judge, Keenan board co-chairman, the Keenan judicial board does not just function as a discipli­nary agent. 
"We also see the J-board functioning in terms of counsel­ing," Judge said. 
Some concern was expressed about the need for secrecy in board proceedings. Lardner said he did not think confiden­tiality was presently a prob­lem. He added that punish­ments should be a matter of public record. 
"I personally would prefer that you post J-board deci­sions," Lardner said. 
The nature of the judicial boards as they relate to each dorm was also discussed. Ac­cording to Lewis Rector Chris­tine Mengucci, the boards in the female halls are used dif­ferently than in the male halls. 
"I don't think that women's halls have the same type of of­fenses that (men's) halls do," Mengucci said. 
"I think that each dorm needs to develop and see how (each) judicial board can be used," said Cintron. "Just the idea the students have the place to go if they want," she added. 
Stanford University in 1951 and his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1954. 
Following his graduation from law school, Bok was a Fulbright scholar for a year at the University of Paris In­stitute of Political Science. 
In 1958 Bok received a master's degree in economics from George Washington Uni­versity. He joined the faculty of Harvard Law School later that year, and was appointed its dean in 1968. 

Women riot when male strip show is cancelled 
Associated Press 
MONROEVILLE, Pa. About 600 women who paid $10 each to watch a male strip show turned into an angry mob when the performance was canceled, officials say. 
"They just went ape," said Public Safety Director John Danzilli. 
Women hurled bottles from the bar, and one woman was injured when she fell trying to hit a doorman at the Ritz nightclub, at the Monroeville Howard Johnson's, Danzilli said. 
He estimated damage in the Saturday night melee at $500 in broken glass and chairs. 
According to Danzilli, the promoter of the Manpower Revue canceled the strip show after club operator AI Monzo refused to pay him in cash. 
The promoter "told him there was going to be a riot. He went on stage and told those women the show was can­celed," Danzilli said. "He said 'If you want your money back, you can sue AI Monzo. That's what we're going to do.' " 
State troopers and police from five departments were called in to restore order. 
SUMMER STORAGE .MASTER-MINI WAREHOUSE CALL 683-1959 
The Observer 



2 teens charged with fatally stabbing priests 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y.-Two teen­
agers have been charged in the 
stabbing deaths of two inner­
city Roman Catholic priests 
who were slain 12 days and less 
than a mile apart. One of the 
young men confessed, police 
said Monday. 
The deaths had prompted 
warnings that priests should 
not let strangers into their 
homes. 
Investigators arrested Mil­ton E. Jones, 17, in Buffalo late Sunday, Police Commissioner Ralph V. Degenhart said at a news conference. 
The second defendant, Theodore Simmons, 18, also of Buffalo, was picked up early Monday in California by San Diego police after information was obtained from his family on his whereabouts. 
Homicide Chief Richard T. Donovan said robbery was the motive in the slayings of the Rev. A. Joseph Bissonette, 55, in the rectory of St. Bar­tholomew's Church on Feb. 24, and of Monsignor David P. Her­lihy, 74, in the rectory at St. Matthew's Church. Herlihy's body was found early Sunday. 
After his arrest, Jones "provided the homicide bureau with a confession to both priest murders," Degenhart said. 
Simmons and Jones were each charged with two counts of second-degree murder, two of first-degree robbery, and third-degree criminal posses­sion of a weapon. 
Dennis Vacco, an assistant district attorney of Erie County, said he was filing papers to arrange Simmons' extradition. 
Both priests had been stabbed repeatedly in the chest. The rectories are less than a mile apart on Buffalo's East Side. 
"These were cold-blooded 
killers," Chief of Detectives 
Angelo Alessandra said. He 
said a considerable amount of 
money was taken in the rob­
beries, but declined to say how 
much. 
Priests at St. Michael's had met Sunday and decided not to allow any strangers into the rectory late at night. Degen­hart had urged other priests not to let strangers into their homes. 
"There's a big sense of relief," the Rev. John Sturm of St. Michael's Church said after the arrests. 


Fugitive killer Dallas found; harbored by two cowboys 
Associated Press 
LOS Angeles -Two cowboys have been arrested on charges of harboring Claude Dallas Jr., the fugitive killer of two game wardens who was recaptured after roaming in disguise from Oregon to Mexico for nearly a year, the FBI said Monday. 
RichardT. Bretzing, the FBI chief in Los Angeles, said aut­horities succeeded in catching up with the trapper, who fled the Idaho State Penitentiary last March 30, because they knew he had a past association with one of the cowboys and kept him under surveillance. 
FBI officials said they also arrested Gregory Brent Davis, 35, a cowboy from Perris, and Dan McCurry Martinez, 35, of Riverside, a cowboy and a welder, on charges they "knowingly harbored, transported and supported Dal­las." 
Both were arrested Sunday night at Martinez's home in Riverside. 
"We set up a web around Martinez to catch Dallas," Bretzing said, adding that Mar­tinez had been here for only a matter of weeks or months and that Dallas arrived in just the past few days. 
Bretzing said Martinez had known Dallas for some time before the 1981 shooting of the game wardens. The FBI cannot yet trace all of Dallas' path since his escape, Bretzing added. 


Early Bird Special  !  
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnishedI§ Sign up before break and  ~ ~ § §  
~  receive u 10% discount  ~  
§  Call 234-6647  ~  



NI5AVEAP~1 
~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ i~<Q><.Q-.-Q><.Q>.q,.Q>..!J..!~J..._q-.,q,o.Q.~<.Q>·.Q>o.Q-•._q-.§ 
Tuesday, March 10, 1987 -page 4 


Priest slain 
Buffalo police detectives enter the rectory of St. Matthew's Roman Catholic Church Sunday as they investigate the fatal stabbing of Mon-


Buddhists to enthrone 2-year-old 
Associated Press 
KAPAN, Nepal-Tibetan Bud­dhist lamas are seeking an auspicious date to enthrone a 2-year-old Spanish boy they believe is the reincarnation of the leader of a major monas­tery. 
The Buddhist parents of Ozel Iza Torres brought him to India last month and are planning to take him to the Kapan monas­tery, where he is to take the seat of the late high lama Thub­ten Yeshe. 
But disciples in the monas­tery 10 miles northeast of Kat­mandu said they didn't know when he would arrive. 
Owen Cole, 37, a disciple from Perth, Australia, said several lamas would decide the date of the ceremony and ap­parently are looking for an auspicious occasion. 
The boy's mother, Maria Torres, 33, came to Katmandu three weeks ago with her four other children to make sure Ozel, her youngest child, will have no problems adjusting to his new home. 
"Ozel is still in Delhi," Torres said Saturday. "I was waiting here for the child to be enthroned as the head lama of Kapan monastery. But I don't know whether the ceremony will take place here or in Dharamsala." 
Dharamsala, in northern In­dia, is the home of the Dalai Lama, the leader of Tibetan Buddhism. 
Torres said the Dalai Lama has confirmed that Ozel, born near Granada, Spain, on Feb. 
12, 1985, is the reincarnation of Yeshe. 
Y-eshe visted Spain several times as he traveled around the world to open Buddhist teach­ing centers. He died in San Francisco on March 3, 1984. 
The Kapan monastery operates the Mount Everest School for Buddhist Studies, where 70 young monks and 60 visitors from all over the world are undergoing training. 
Before leaving Spain, Torres told the Madrid newspaper Diario 16 she did not know if her son would ever return to Spain. She said her biggest problem with him is having "a son and a master at the same time." 


Attention Juniors 
Due to the overwhelming number of requests for Junior Parents' Weekend 1987 MUGS, the JPW Committee will be commissioning another order!.Orders must be placed, with payment at time of order, by Friday, March 13. The mugs will only be '''3.25 each. Place your name, address number of mugs_ and payment in an envelope and place under the JPW office door on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, or drop off in 718 P .E. 
Surprise your parents with a set ofmugs! 
Questions? Call Maureen at 283-4455. 



The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 5 

Ozone chemicals linked to 'epidemic' of cancer 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Prompt in­ternational action is needed against widely used ozone­destroying chemicals that are indirectly causing skin cancers at an almost epidemic pace, scientists warned a House hearing Monday. 
"At the current rate, about one in seven Americans will develop (some form of) this disease during their lifetime," said Dr. Darrel Rigel, a re­search physician from New York University Medical Cen­ter 
"The rate of skin cancer in the United States is increasing at a near epidemic pace," Rigel told an Energy and Com­merce health and environment subcommittee hearing on depletion of the Earth's stratospheric ozone layer. 
He said physicians believe the major cause of skin cancer is the ultraviolet rays of the sun, which are filtered by stratospheric ozone. Other wit­nesses said that while there is still scientific uncertainty, it appears that the ozone layer is being destroyed by chemicals such as chlorofluorocarbons. 
Rigel said the estimated number of cases of malignant melanoma -the skin cancer type most often fatal -has risen eightfold in the last seven years, making it the fastest rising type except lung cancer in women. 
He said five years ago New York University researchers estimated that one in 250 Americans would develop malignant melanoma during their lifetimes and projected an increase to one in 150 by the year 2000. 
The recent surge in skin can­cer rates, Rigel said, has forced revisions -the lifetime risk is now one in 135; the year­2000 projection is one in 90; and for 2075, it is one in three. 
He told the subcommittee that not only is the skin cancer rate rising, the disease is being found in people of increasingly younger age. 
"Five years ago, it was un­usual to see persons under the age of 40 with skin cancer," Rigel said. "Now we will often see persons in their 20s with this disease." 
He said although many fac­tors have been linked to skin cancer, "the generally ac­cepted most important factor is exposure to ultraviolet light. 
One would expect skin can­cer rates to increase as the ozone thins." 
And that, other witnesses warned, is exactly what is hap­pening around the world, both in the much-publicized ozone hole appearing several months a year over the Antarctic but also to a lesser extent in warmer latitudes. 
They said that although the exact cause is not scientifically proven, the situation probably stems from emissions of ozone­destroying chlorofluorocar­bons, which are used as aerosol spray propellants, refrigerants and industrial solvents and in some foam packaging. 
"There is now compelling ob­servational evidence that the chemical composition of the at­mosphere is changing at a rapid rate on a global scale," said Dr. Robert T. Watson, act­ing manager for upper atmo­spheric research at the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Administration. 

j. 

... 
AP Photo 

A dinghy containing salvage workers is capsided Friday evening, with officials estimat­dwarfed by the stern and propellers of the cap-ing the death toll at 150 lives. See related story sided ferry Herald of Free Enterprise, off the below. Belgian coast at Zeebrugge Sunday. The ferry 

Relatives of ferry victims gather to offer prayer service in Belgium 
Associated Press plan, beginning Monday night, tify their kin. to return bodies to Britain by Officials said relatives had ferry. Most of the dead were identified 34 bodies. Police 
ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium British. Chief Roger de Bree said the 
Survivors and victims' rela­Transport Minister John others would be moved to a tives joined in an ecumenical Moore of Britain said Monday hospital for further identifica­prayer service Monday for in Parliament that a public in­tion. those who died when water quiry will be conducted into the rushed through a British ferry disaster and the government If all 81 missing are declared three days earlier and turned will donate 1 million pounds dead, the final toll would be 134, it on its side. ($1.6 million) to the survivors by far the worst accident of 
Salvage crews prepared to and families of the dead. modern times on the ferry runs right the partially submerged Belgian officials said a panel between Britain and the con­vessel so scores of bodies could of maritime law experts had tinent. be recovered from inside. The begun an investigation. Herald of Free Enterprise, "All of the survivors, includ­At St. Donaas, a small, neo­which capsized Friday night ing the crew, have been ques­Gothic brick church 400 yards
while leaving Zeebrugge har­tioned," said Philippe van from the temporary morgue,bor for Dover, rests starboard­Bale, spokesman for inves­about 50 relatives and sur­side-up on a sandbar. tigating magistrate Arthur vivors held a 20-minute ser­
More than 130 people are Doest. vice. thought to have died in the Ship's boatswain Marc Stan­shipwreck. ley was reported to have said "It was very simple. But 
Olivier Vannesta, governor the accident was his fault be­there were deep emotions," of West Flanders province, cause he left the front loading said Richard Third, Anglican said one more survivor had doors open, but van Bale said bishop of Dover. ''The service been located -someone who es­he "denied under questioning was very moving." caped the disaster but did not he ever made that statement." report to authorities immedi­Stanley returned to Britain on He and Roger Vanghelune, ately. Sunday night. Roman Catholic bishop of 
That left 81 people still mis­Bodies were laid out in rows Bruges, led the service. sing and presumed dead. Van­of coffins at a makeshift Journalists were barred, but oeste said 409 people survived morgue in Zeebrugge's sports one who managed to get inside and 53 bodies had been center. said some relatives broke recovered. Preliminary identification down. He said a woman col­
Paul Ellis, spokesman for the was done at the naval base ad­lapsed to the floor, sobbing, and Townsend Thoresen line that jacent to the harbor. More rela­was helped out by Red Cross owns the ship, announced a tives arrived Monday to iden-workers. 
Thcz C~ar B.l.....kTap• 
s AB RECORD STORE $7N Ifj 


Spr'ing Br' eak! 
Need M\J'}it:.! 
11\o~ ~~e.Ue1 only $6..~8 
Hours: 11 :30 -5:00 Basement of Lafortune 

DON'T CLOSE THAT SUITCASE until you've remembered to stoc~ up for Spring Break at the COUNTRY HARVESTER!! we have: . creamy yogurt-covered items · deliciously dried fruits · freshly roasted nuts · unique trail mixes The Country Harvester wilt be closed March 14-22 Hours: M-F: 11:30-6:30 Located in LaFortune basement Sat. 12:00-5:00 Phone: 239-6714  
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS  

March 14, 1987 Happy 19th Birthday! David We are all so very proud lovefrom all, Mother, Dad, Rick &Lori  





\1ie\YE_O_i_n_t____________Tue~sday,-Marc~hlo,1~9s7-p~ages 
College students losing sight of world issues 
The purpose of "Dialogue on Educa­tion" is to raise constructive discussion on the meaning ofuniversity education today and its role in society. This column is the first in a series on this topic. The committee for "Dialogue on Education" invites all students, staff, and faculty to contribute to this dialogue by expressing their views on the questions posed in this column and on other issues related to university education and society today. 
Is college education nothing more than glorified vocational-technical training? Is it simply a route to a better career and higher income? Has the American dream been reduced to a quest for riches, a search for El Dorado? 
Gregory Maggetti 
guest column 
A number of recent reports and sur­veys of American colleges have con­firmed many people's suspicion that today's students have lost a sense of social responsibility. The annual sur­vey of the University of California at Los Angeles and the American Council of Education shows that 73 percent of college students listed "being very well-off financially" as a top goal of their education. 
The same survey found a steady in­crease in student concern in being af­fluent and a decrease of altruism and social concern. The Carnegie Founda­tion's report on college education in America tells that careerism, creden­tialism and vocationalism have sapped higher education of its sense of social purpose. Degrees in business are on the rise. A liberal arts education, once the dominant program on college cam­puses, is regarded as inappropriate for today's job market. 
But is preparation for a career the sole mission of colleges? Traditionally, university education was meant to pro­vide a breadth of vision that enabled students to understand their contempo­rary society in the light of history and the ideals of justice and liberty. There­fore, liberal arts education, with its focus on philosophy, literature and his­tory, among other fields, was always very important. 
The Carnegie report, "College: The Undergraduate Experience in America," however, has found that the overarching problem in higher educa­tion today is the loss of interrelatedness between universities and the wider so­ciety. The authors of the report note " ... a disturbing gap between the college and the larger world. There is ... an in­tellectual and social isolation that reduces the effectiveness of faculty and limits the vision of the student." 
You don't have to look far to see why the social and civic aspects are being drained from college education, and why it is largely viewed as an individual investment. To a large extent, the withdrawal of public resources for edu­cation has forced students to believe that their education must pay off in higher future income if it is to justify the high cost. 
Also, the political rhetoric of recent years has put individualism and signs of economic prosperity above a real commitment to social justice. 
It's quite a long leap, however, from the notion that self-interested in­dividualism will increase gross na­tional product to the assertion that it will also lead to a more just society. We cannot ignore the fact that in the United States, the showcase for demo­cratic capitalism, the past decade has seen a drastic deterioration in the stan­dard of life for many people. 
The U.S Catholic Bishops, in their pastoral letter on the U.S. economy, have enumerated some of the more prominent challenges to economic and social justice that . our system has proven impotent in dealing with, and which in part were engendered by the system itself. Some of these include : the degrading situations of unemploy­ment and homelessness experienced by many; "dwindling social supports for family stability; a driven pace of life among the successful that can sap love and commitment;" the problems of American farming and the situation among migrant farm workers; and the overshadowing problem for Third World poverty. 
These issues are only some of the con­temporary problems which we must confront. Some others are: the tension between super powers with the under­lying threat of a nuclear confrontation, and the resources used up in defense industries and the use of f)ther peoples as pawns in the geopolitical power struggle; the ethical dilemmas caused by the seemingly autonomous expan­sion of technology; the cultural poverty resulting from consumerism; ques­tions concerning the ethical use of mass media, with the constant, but yet often unrecognized threat of their being used as tools for propaganda; and the ap­parent meaninglessness of life that 
Y()(J CAN PHeW& INAN fF.PER ANY TIMe, OR, UKE MOSTPElJPi£, YOiJ CAN SIJ85CR/8E, ANOA SIX-PACt< IAIIU. 8£; PRlJPPWOFF 

haunts many people. 
Given the complexity of these prob­lems it is hard to believe that self­interested individualism is the appro­priate social virtue to preach. The world's ills will not go away by magic. Rather, the resolution of today's press­ing problems requires a conscious in­volvememnt on our part. It requires an ability to discern these problems clearly within the wider context of human life and society. Indeed, our par­ticipation in the process of creating a more human and just society rests on our ability to respond to the moral chal­lenges we face, and this ability depends on our discernment and breadth of vi­sion. 
When considered in this light, educa­tion for individual affluence is educa­tion for civic and social impoverish­ment. At a critical moment in human history, we must ask whether the pres­ent crisis in education isn't undermin­ing our future capacity to meet the chal­lenges facing us. Are we blindly ignoring the questions which we must eventually confront? 
Although Notre Dame has always pledged its commitment to provide an education that emphasizes civic and so­cial responsibility as well as academic excellence, it would be naive to believe that this campus has not felt the impact of the contemporary wave of excessive individualism, narrowness of vision, and short-sightedness which has swept over the nation. 
We are at a moment in the history of our university, our nation, and our world when we must re-examine the purpose of university education. 
We are a university rich in tradition of social and civic responsibility. And there are resources available to us here that provide a wealth of potential for the future. But we need to look at how integrated our classwork, research, and extracurricular activities are and whether they reflect a spirit of commit­ment to the common good. 
We have the Center for Social Con­cerns. How many students, faculty, and staff make use of it? How many of us are aware of the programs and organ­izations operating from the CSC? Are we involved? 
What is the role of student organiza­tions in promoting a well-rounded col­lege education? What part do the Peace Institute, the Kellogg Institute, the Cen­ter for the Study of Contemporary So­ciety and other institutes and programs on campus play in the educational ex­perience? How many of us take advan­taghe of these resources? 
How do the various departments en­deavor to foster open-mindedness, critical-inquisitiveness and reflection on social issues? 
These are some of the questions that need to be raised if we are to begin a realistic appraisal of the larger social issues and our role as a university com­munity in confronting these issues. The authors of the Carnegie Foundaiton report state that "what we need today is a constructive debate about the meaning of the undergraduate college and a willingness to make this part of the educational enterprise a more vital, more enriching institution." 
Such a debate needs to happen right here at the University. We need to ex­amine what is right and what is wrong at Notre Dame. What are the signs of hope for the future? Where is the po­tential for our playing a more dynamic role in creating a more human world? How can we, and how do we get in­volved? 
Indeed, are we nothing more than a glorified voc-tech institute, or do we have an obligation to become open­
minded, well-informed,  and critical  
citizens of the world?  
Gregory  Maggetti  is  a  member  of  

"Dialogue on Education." Bruce Corrie, Scott Zachary and Ronni Karam are also contributing members to this column. 


Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference.Write to P.O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
UM... ISTHAT 
IVHATTHt; 
OTHER6UY5 

All£; 667TING? 
I 



Quote of the day 
"To be, or not to be: that is the question: Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles, And by opposing end them?" 
William Shakespeare (1564-1616) "Hamlet" 
General Board 


Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon 
Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. CulliganThe Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University 
Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Ma1y Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlinof the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ MJrgie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1988 

The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987 -page 7 


Sports Briefs 
The ND men's volleyball club will put its 16-4 record on the line against Hope College tonight at 7:30 at the ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The OC lacrosse team, will hold practice today at 4:30 at Stepan field. -The Observer 
The LaFortune billiards tournament begins this week. All participants are asked to check the pairings in the pool room in the basement of LaFortune immedi­ately. First round matches must be played before spring break. -The Observer 
The OC baseball team is looking for a catcher. If interested contact Kirk (227-1280) or Chris (227-4960) by tomorrow. -The Observer 
Thejuniorclass warm-uptoBookstoreBasketball XVI reminds teams to check the board for playing times this week. -The Observer 
More than 650 teams have registered for the 1987 Bookstore Basketball Tournament, the most in the tourn­ament's history. Last year 583 teams participated in the annual event. -The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
second in the 150-pound cate­gory. 
"He was really determined to make it to nationals," said McCann. "He doesn't have a great deal of ability, but he has a lot of heart and he showed it during the weekend." 
Geneser, Durso, and Wis­niewski will compete in the the NCAA Championships at Col­lege Park, Maryland, on March 19-21. 
The ObserYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMfY81' Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
Typ1ng Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
PRQ-TYPE Quollty work, word procu8lng IVIIIIblllty, <8UOnlble I. 277-5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Wordproc81olng 277-1131 
HELPI We need a ride to the PiHsburgh area for Broski Prom1ae not to take up too much apace. Will pay. Call Karen and Molly -£1328. 

\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL DROP EARRING SONMEWHEAE BETWEEN FARLEY AND CUSHING ...GREAT SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE CALL HEATHER £3878. 
........ .................................... 
LOST: EEL-SKIN WALLETI Probably loaf In the engineering auditlll'ium Ill' at the S.dlnlng hall on Sat.. the 21st of February. II found pleaae contact John Euatermann at 1068. Please kaep trying to get ahold of me. and-br leave a mea­sage W' phone [II really need the walletl 
LOST: the phone C of the girl named Suzie (Susan) who poaaibly found John Eustermann'a WALLETI Please call me backI I've tried to contact you but to no avelll I need the wallet desperatelyll call 283-1066, or atop by room 203 Alumni Hall. You'll make my day. 
LOST: AIRLINE TICKETS ON EAST AN­GELA BLVD. ON :Y.I AT APPROX. 8:00 
A.M. PLEASE CALL 232·9835 OR 283· 2877 (LEAVE A MESSAGE). THANKSII 
LOST: MAROON WALLET WI BLACK STRIPES AND VELCRO FLAP. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW APAATMANTS, MARCH 2. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KURT AT C3289 OR COME TO 235 KEENAN. $10,000 REWARDIII 
LOST--Hal, Cat, In French "chet chapeau" REWARD, REWARD, REWARD, and REWARDI Somebody's got my three-handled lamlly gradunzal That'a rlghtl My GOLF HAT. And I really need It beck. So PeeWee'e puHin' up a $1,000,000.24 reward. GOLF HAT LOST on Mon.Mar.2, In South Dining Hall. Tan with uniquely bent brlm, patch aeys: BEL· LEVUE COUNTRY CLUB. Nama says C.R.Dougherty. C'mon, pleaae call3110 with any Info. 
FOUND: Pair of glasses between PW and Flanner on way to 02. C811283-1242. 
.............................................................. 
LOSTII: A VERY expansive pair of Ray· Ban Wayfarers. Could be anywhere on campua, but probably at the Carreer­Piacement office. Pleaae be honest and retum themllll Call Staph at 3499 or Lindsay at 3780. 
.................................. 
LOST LOST LOST KEYS KEYS KEYS 
at Lyons B-Ball courts week of March 2 
EPCOT CENTER key ring with 3 keys . 
please call 283-2584 or 283-251l8 or 
283-2583 ... THANX, Scon. 
HELP ME SURVIVE MIDTERMS IIIII It waa a aunny Friday close to Spnngbnaak (and midterms) when some­body just decides to take my bag ... AND I NEED ITIIIIIIIIII I saw It 101' the last lima at South Dining Hall ( March 6 ) at 11 
a.m. It Ia light blue and contains Jap, philo, matfl and French notes which are m01'8 than Important. So, ba good and call Carmen(272-8617) p.a. Doea reward sound good? Then brlng It faaterllll 
FOUND: 3 kayo on braaa NO key ring. Found Frl3il outalde O'Sheg. Call Karen x2839 to claim. 
..... . ··;;ouNo·-r---·-----------------
woMAN's GOLD WATCH WATCH FOUND ON TRAIL AROUND ST.JOE'S LAKE. CALL STEVE, 1157. 
LOST: Gold NO keyrlng w' kays for Rm. 
238. Hfound, pleaae call • 1725 or x4159 LOST: HELPIIIost my gold Pulsar watch at the Happening House on Friday night. It has an octengular face. If you found It PLEASE call me at 284·4092. 
lost one 1920's gold and cultured pearl clip on earring on saturday on the side­walk by the grono. please call annona 284-4372. 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684288·0955 

WANTED 
I NEED RIDES TOFROM MIDWAY AIR· PORT I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm on Fri. Mar. 13 and I need a ride back to NO from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. lcould leave the airport anytime aHer 8:00 am. CALL PAUL £2287. 
desperately need a ride , to North Carolina lor spring break. John £3362 
............................................ 
TAU GREEN CORPORATION National Lawn Care Company aeeka de­pendable, hardworking Individuals lor full or part-time sales. Morning and evening shifts are available. Must be able to com· munlcate with potential customers effec­tively. Sales experience helpful, but will train the right person. Call 233-9700 during business hours -8 am to 9 pm. Ask lor Kyle or Pierre. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS Ltd. NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO AR­RANGE AN INTERVIEW 3121.!51·0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET· EVANSTON, II. 60201 
ARE YOU FROM JOISEY7 I'm from Jolaey. Exit 114. If you need a ride home and back for spring break, call Mark at 4074. With the abuse our state takea, we have to stick together. 
SHOW ME 
THE WAY TO Oll:> ST. LOUIE! Need a ride to St. Louis lor Spring Break. Can leave anytime Frlday. Will share ex­penses. Call Laura at X3722. 
HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP 
MElli I naed a ride to Brookville, IN. If you are on your way to CINCINNATI or that GEN· ERAL DIRECTION, give me a call at X3722. Ask for Melissa. Thanx/11111 
RIDE NEEDED 
FOR 2 

MARCH13 
TO 

ROANOKE, VA OR 
KNOXVILLE, TN AREA CALL: MATI-4793 OR JEFF-3481 
HELPI t NEED A RIDE TO N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL TIM AT 1054. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THURS. 2112. CALL JANE X3757 
Oferng rd-tp ride to Clev for brk 255-1508 
MADISON TAKE ME THERE FOR BREAK! PLEASE CALL BARB AT 1349 
NEED RIDE TOFROM DC FOR BREAK CALL HELEN 287·0531 AFTER 6PM 
helpl Need ride to Phlla. will share ex­penses. call Toe, C1 091 
Aide needed to Chicago or Northwest suburbs on Friday, March 13 afternoon. Call Fran C4404 Ill' Cindy £4229. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for spring break. Can leave anytlme.Call Pat at 3188. 
Need ride to CHICAGO Thurs. Call3611 or 3220 
.......................................................... 
WANTED: COMPETENT STUDENT WHO IS IN TO FILMING AND VIDEO, TO CLEAN AND SPLICE OLD 8 AND 16 MOVIE FILMS AND PUT ON VIDEO TAPE. GOOD PAY, PHONE: GINA MANION. 272-3097 
······························· 
Need a ride to Green Bay for break. Will share expenses. Please call Mary 2905. 
TAKE ME to IOWA lor break. Call Anita smc4092 


FOR SALE 
Is II True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts todayl Call 1-312-742·1142 E><t. 7316 
CAR FOR SALE: 73' Buick; 75,000 miles; reliable student car. $550 or beat offer. Call Tony at 287·3923. 
Compact Disk Player lor aale. Audiophile quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program­mable. Remote. Lists for $1,295.00 bu~ will aelllor $600.00. Call evenings belort 10 pm at 277-5912 or days at 239-7133. 
$250. worth of TWA flight vouchers lor sale. $200. Call 233-6262. 
HELPI 1 ROUND TRIP PLANE TICKET TO DENVER DR ASPEN, COLORADO. FOR SPRING BREAK $95 CALL LUIS 1550 
lor sale: Toshiba stereo system $30. 284· 4092 

TICKETS 
GRAD TIX NEEDED, If you are planning on ordering less than four tlx call Rich at 3338 


PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your te>Ctbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or '-ae 1 cor. 238-2200. Flnonc­lng ovalleble for all US atatu. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
•• Sprlng Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now I Save " •• $90 AT Tix to Newark •• " Laava 3'1 2, Retum :¥.!1 •• '" Call X3586 NOW "' 
Thank you St. Jude for your help­
Thank you St. Jude for your help· 
Thank you St. Jude for your help-
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
ITS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
.. 194 •• 
SPRING BREAK LOANS Morrissey Loan Fund All Students Eligible Except May 87 Grads $20-200 30 days 1% Interest 2nd Fl Lafortune 11 :30·12:30 M-F 
HEY DUDES· LOOKING FOR 2 ROOMATES TO SHARE NO AV APT FOR 87·88. PREFER PARTYERS. CALL CHRIS1>AUL 232-3829 
TO A SISTER 'Be DOMER WHO SENT ME THE CHARM AND BEAUTIFUL LET· TEA: YOU HAVE TAUGHT ME MORE ABOUT THIS FAMILY THAN I COULD EVER KNOW. THANK YOU FOR MAKING THIS PLACE TRULY SPE­CIAL. I WISH I KNEW YOUR NAME, BUT KNOW THAT I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU. THANKS AGAIN, CONI RICH 
....................................... 
KATHY HAPPY MARCH PRESENT DAYI 
Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 2687. 
Desperately need one graduation ticket. Need money? Spring Break is coming ne><t weeki Call 2890. 
Happy Birthday to my predominantly March-born family: Anne (19th), Dad (21st), and Eric (25th). -S. Houser 
Skip's mind, Aaron's body, Steve's paycheck, THE ULTIMATE MANIII 
LOVE SEX AND THE IRS 
WILL LESLIE COME OUT OF HIS CLOSET? WILL KATE TELL JOHN ABOUT LESUE? WILL JOHN'S MOM KNOCK OFF THE BOOZIN'7 FIND OUT TONIGHTI ROUND UP YOUR FRIENDS AND COME SEE LOVE, SEX, AND THE IRS MARCH 8, 10, 11 WASHINGTON HALL, 8:00 PM. 

.........................P'Aui:·G':····--··--··--·--··--·-­
ARE YOU SURE YOU'RE A GEEK? SE 
P.S. HOW'S PHOENIX LOOKING? 
CluoyQuotH "What I neod Ia a really good bang job (haircut)," "She looka llko a dog In mid-drool," "Give me that quarter back," "Arghhhhhhhh," 
Tea baby 
CLEVELANDERS: Need ride to Cleveland for break. Prefer to leave Friday afternoon. Contact Jim, 283-1384. 
LADY Dt I've watched you from afar, You are my shining star. I've aeon you under moonlight, And under another's arm. t know your heart belongs to him, But II he's so blind to just be friends, May I pleaae be the one to come within. I'd aend you roses and champagne, And candies of delight, For you are a special lady who deserves to be treated right. 
P.S. I won't miaa your gymnastics meetl 
How many of you can say you had a date with an allen from "left ol Jupiter"? 1sure can I Thanx lor an "out of this world time" Trish Hunay 
THE PLACE: CAMPUS VIEW THE TIME: SATURDAY NIGHT THE QUOTE: "Oh no, John's In TROUBLEI RRRRR· YIYIYIYIIII" 
Bill W. frlll'n Zahm--You're a beautiful per­eon Inside and out. Your eyes go on forever and I wish I could share In avery thought that goes on behind them. 
DAVE SCHMITI Thanx for a wondenUI time Pepper Pot 
;:~·;i;~·;;;;;;;·ao:;;isii~~i~-Fi~;;;;;·a;~~~ 
all your FOURS -Mozart JUNIOR CLASS SKIERS Remember this: Karen: Is the basement downstairs? Brian's mad because I don't want his peanuts. M.BonJovi Kurowski:"You give love a bad name." Chunkier's clown againl Melonhead: Just like the other slope but different. Like butler... spread it. Where were you when the lights went out? Mike K.: Where did you sleep.. ."Where'a my aaprln, where's my suitcase?" 67 to beat 84. The big XI Branded! The big Ll Coma: pft. pft. pft. Mike 0: Thanks for the bedtime enter­fainmentl Swim n Chug, Questions, Euchre....More memories tomorrow! 

I need a ride to NYC Will pay andtlr dnve Call Dan X2329 
TO BRIAN & PAUL, OUR BLIND DATES­WE HAD A GREAT TIME I YOU'VE GOT THE CUPS, WE'LL GO OUT ON A LIMB TO GIVE YOU A REFILL...ANNE & MARIA 
CONGRADULATIONS MARY KAY· VOLLEYBALL'S MVPI WE LOVE VA. MARIA & FOOF 
BRENT-THANKS FOR CARING AND WATCHING OUT FOR USI YOU ARE A GREAT BIG BROTHER! THANK FOR ALL YOU DOl YOU HAVE A BIG HEART, GREAT BACK & NICE PACKAGE. LOVE, M & A 
JIM CARROLL says: "I am MASTEAI" 
I'm a DRUID 
He's a DRUID 
She's a DRUID 
They're all DRUIDS 

Wouldn't you like to be a DRUID too? 
(You do realize why we're having all this wonderful sprlngllke weather ao early In the seaaon, clon't you?) 
This spring Is being brought to you by . 
THE NOTRE DAME DRUID SOCIETY 
Have I grill aprlng b<81kl 
Happy 21st Birthday Annie Kotllnskll (sorry It's one day late!) love your Roomie, Sherry P.S. Wa Wa Wahl 
MIKE MCCARTHY, XOXO, FRANK, TRISH, MOM, KATHY, MOLLY, KATHY, RAF, LYONS GIRLS LlffiE GUY AND THE REST OF THE GANG, THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR MAKING MY 21ST B-DAY THE "BEST DAY OF MY WHOLE LIFE". SORRY THAT I RETAINED MY DINNER BUT THAT DOESNT MEAN I'M NOT GOING TO BE HUNTING FOR EACH ONE OF YOU ON YOUR UP­COMING B-OAYS. THANKS AGAIN! THERE ISN'T A PERSON ALIVE WHO HAS A BETTER BUNCH OF FRIENDS . 
RETURN PLANE TIX FOR SALE Philly to SB, :Y.!3 Call Karen x2639 $ Negoti­able 
............................................................ 
Dave Shearon, you tennis god. 
Jan-of-hair Kroll What In God's name are you ever going lo cia wllh a major like that? 
LISA JULKA 
LISA JULKA 

Yo te vi en el noche de sebeclo, y yo 
pienso que tu bailaa magnlllcamentel Yo 
anlicipo el placer de bailer contigo en el 
futuro. Poadata: Tlenea un novlo? Reply 
Here Soon 

Broaden your pe<8peC11vea wtth 1 major or IICOnd major In theology. Como and dlocuaa the detalla with E. Gorlkl. 340 O'ShoughnHiy. 
prum...prum...prum... PRUMI? Jill S, Friday night was so much fun. Have a terrific B-Dsy! Love,"sklp"ll 
HARRY & GEORGE DO YOU WANT TO GO UP ON THE ROOF HAVE A GOOD BREAK 
RED SWEATER MYSTERY GIRL-If I'm the "FREDDY" you were looking for at 
6:30 in the HUDDLE last SAT.,I'm sorry for the no-show -had to work til 7:30. If nobody showed up on SAT & you're still Interested, PLEASE contact me before break. Curiously yours, FREDDY 
DON'T FORGET TO STOCK UP FOR SPRING BREAK at the COUNTRY HARVESTER! WE HAVE......... Yogurt Covered Hems Fresh Roasted Nuts Deliciously Dried Fruita Tons of Trail Mixes LOCATED IN LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL TUX RENTAL TUX RERNTAL TUX RENTAL TUX ANTAL TUX RENTAL TUX RENTAL HEY GUYS, HAVE YOU RENTED THAT TUX YET? If not go to GILBERTS, University Park Mall or Downtown THIS WEEKI Special prlce$38. SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL 
1887 SEXY LEGS WINNERS! KRISTOF PETRILO (HEYI,HEYI) AND 
JOHNNY THE DONGER WAD (SO MENTHOLATED SHAVING CREAM REALLY STINGS?) 
LONELY SAILOR NEEDS SOME MAIL CURRENTLY ON WORLD CRUISE. WILL CORRESPOND IMMEDIATELY: STEVE BARRAZA, VAW-112, F.P.O. SAN FRANCISCO 96801-6400 
Thanks KEVIN WALSH-We finally have a humOI' column thai Ia funny! 
................................................................ 
All SMC RIGHT TO LIFE MEMBERS: Yearbook Picture will be taken at 5:00, Wed. In Haggar. We would like as many members there as poaalble. Please comel Call 4096 If you have any ques­tions. 
HE DID NOT HAVE A NAME FOR HIS AROUSAL. SO HE CALLED IT ROLLO. 
DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH 
MOIRA SCULLY YOU ARE SO GOOD-LOOKINGI (SMILE·PLEASEI) 
TIE-DYE SHIRTS I GET YOUR TIE-DYE SHIRTS FOR SPRING BREAK. 284· 
5343. 
Mclaughlin-riding the "Inside" track to fun and lemaleal 
onnle klltenblch Here's your personal! I'll miaa you In and out of the offica. I'm sensing good news is on the way, and then you're only 2 hours away on a south shore rlde. It's bean a real blaafll -m.c.b. (your wise fool for just a year.) 
CONGRATIONS MAURAI .N.D.111111 Ne>Ct year you can celebrate your birthday here. Happy 181hl Love, Alison 
woof, woof 


~ ~ ~-~---------------..-·-----~~---------·-------.,......,-.. ......
r 
The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 8 
Swim team finishes ninth at Invite; depth can't come through for ND 
both powerful and deep so we

By STEVE MEGARGEE we're closing in." 
can do everything."

Sports Writer Top individual finishers for During the regular season, the Irish include freshman Ed Welsh was still pleased with the Notre Dame men's swim Veome (sixth in both one-meter the performance of the swim­mers.
•-team took advantage of its bal-and three-meter diving), fresh­
ance and depth to compile a 10-man Bill J ackoboice (sixth in 50-yard freestyle), freshman "We're not happy to be ninth, Rich Zell (eighth in one-meter but we are happy with the in­diving), senior Stephen Coffey dividual performances and the 
and the Irish placed ninth out (ninth in 400-yard individual improvement," he said. "We of 10 teams in the three-day medley) , and senior Chris know the field right now is Midwest Invitationals -at Green (12th in 200-yard individ­faster than we are. We were Chicago last weekend. ual medley). looking for improved and 
"We feel we swam very well, "In a championship meet it's faster times, and we got that. and we were really pleased," a completely different for­Whatever the team score was, said Head Coach Tim Welsh. mat," said Welsh. "In a dual it was. We know we're improv­"A championship measures meet during the season with the ing, and we think we're not far power more than depth. We're University of Illinois-Chicago, from being in the center of this still knocking on the door of and we beat them on balance meet." being one of the top finishers and depth. In the championship in this meet. And with our bal­meet, the University of Illinois­Notre Dame will host next ance, as we improve, the whole Chicago placed third and beat season's Midwest Invitationals team improves. Little by little, us on power. Our goal is to be at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

Irish tennis splits pair in Madison, 
~-l 
Ed Veome placed sixl~ bt both one-meter and tb;;:.:~~~:'v~:~ continues to improve consistency 
at the Midwest Invitational Meet over the weekend for the Notre By PETE SKIKO though we didn't take the meet, Minnesota, by winning, 7-2. Dame swim team. Steve Megargee has the story at right. Sports Writer staying in it until the end is Walsh won his second singles something." match of the weekend to lead The Notre Dame tennis team Notre Dame to a 4-2 advantageSMC swims in NAIA meet; continued to improve and build Notre Dame proved to be a in the singles, and the Irish consistency as it split a pair of force rather than a pushover swept the doubles to preserve 
meets over the weekend in against the Badgers on Satur­the win. Madison, Wisconsin. day. With Wisconsin taking a By JANE SHEA JUnior Meghan Rafferty, 4-2 edge in the singles compe­
four given academic honors 
Carr, Wallace, and Daggs re­
finished with a time of 3:57.57, tition, the Irish needed to sweep 
Sports Writer corded the other Notre Dame
moving up four places to take The Irish dropped its opener the doubles to take the meet. 
singles victories against Gus­
Five swimmers from Saint 20th. on Saturday to the University 
tavus, as Notre Dame ran its 
Mary's were named academic In the 200-yard freestyle of Wisconsin in a hard-fought, The number-one duo of sop­
record to 7-7 on the young
all-Americans at the NAIA relay, Tierney , Rafferty and 5-4 decision, and then came homores Tim Carr and Dave 
season. 

championships at Milwaukee senior captains Patty Juckniess back to defeat Gustavus Reiter took their match in three 
last weekend. and Mary Fisher finished 18th Adolphus, 7-2. sets, and freshman Mike Wal­Over spring break, the Irish The Belles' Mary Beth with a time of 1:48.08. lace teamed with junior Sean will travel to Southern Califor­Hogan, Jennifer Veselik, Meg­The 200-yard medley relay Head Coach Tom Fallon was O'Brien for a straight set win nia for meets with Loyola­
han Rafferty, Mary Fisher, team of Juckniess, senior Mar­pleased with his team's play on at the number-three slot. But Marymount, Cal State-Los An­and Patty Juckniess were all garet Mannion, junior Mary the road this early in the juniors Paul Daggs and Dan geles, Pierce and Whittier, and named to the team. Beth Hogan, and sophomore season. Walsh couldn't hold a one-set for a tournament at Claremont. Ten members of the Saint Jenny MacDougall took 23rd lead at number-two doubles For Fallon, the trip allows him Mary's swim team swam in the place with a time of 2: 10.83. "The trip went well for a few and lost their deciding match, a chance to try some more ex­NAIA championships. Rafferty, Mannion, junior reasons," said Fallon, in his 4-6,6-4,6-2. perimentation with his starting "All the girls who went to the Jennifer Veselik and Tierney 31st and final year as the men's lineup, where not a single spot 
finals did a fine job," said finished 22nd in the 400-yard tennis coach. "For one thing, belongs to a senior.
''Everyone on the squad
Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz, "and medley relay with a time of we're becoming much_ more played pretty well," said Fal­showed great promise for next 4:43.35. consistent with our doubles lon, "but we dug ourselves a "In California," said Fallon, year's meets." In individual events Rafferty play, and with the way we've 
bit of a hole in the singles. The 
"we'll be playing eight

The biggest improvement for placed 33rd in the 100-yard had to scramble our starting 
good doubles just about bailed 
matches in ten days, so there

the Belles was the 400-yard backstroke with a time of positions because of injuries, us out." 
will be a good opportunity to

freestyle relay team, which 1: 10.67 while Mannion and that has been no easy task. 
shuffle things around a little.

dropped 10 seconds off its Tierney finished 32nd and 33rd Also, we are playing well on the 
On Sunday, the Irish took out But going in, I really like our
seeded time. The team, com­in the 100-yard breaststroke road, and again, against a Big 
their frustrations on Gustavus chances. We've come back to
posed of freshmen Erin Tier­with times of 1:17.98 and 1:18.12 Ten team like Wisconsin, even 
Adolphus, a school in western play some pretty good tennis."
ney and Julie Courtney, sopho­respectively. 
more Peggy Halloran, and 
NV A calendar 
Special to The Observer 

Non-Varsity Athletics has announced tomorrow as the dea~line for a number of up­commg events on the NVA agenda. 
Included are the following: 

Softball: Both men's and wo­men's leagues, hall represen­tation, 12 to 16-man rosters must be submitted in writing to NVA. 
Graduate Slow Pitch: Teams by department, 12-man teams, rosters must be submitted in writing. 
lnterhall Baseball: 14 to 18­player rosters must be submit­ted with a $15 entry fee, equip­ment furnished by NVA. 

Soccer: Both men's and wo­
men's tourneys, proof of insur­
ance is required. 

Registration andlor further information on these activities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in 

ONEHOUR 







MOTOPHOTO™ 


ONEHOUR ONEHOUR
MOTOPHOTo· • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTo· UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 272-8243 291-3096 
----~;;-~~--~~:<>c;·-------------if=~i::~-------------~~~()--~if=if="""" 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING EXTRA SET OF PRINTS PASSPORT PHOTO 
With this coupon. receive $3,00 OFF on a 36 With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of exposure, $2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure. $1.00 Prints. when presenting one roll of color-print With this coupon, receive $2.00 OFF your OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll film (C-41 process) for processing and print-passport photo at One Hour Moto Photo. Not of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro-ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to valid with any other promotion. One coupon cessing and printing at One Hour Moto o~e roll per coupon pe~ customer. Not valid per customer per visit. Expires june 1, 1987. Photo. Coupon offers may not be combined. Wit~ an.y other promotion. Expires june 1, 1987. ONEHOUR Expires. june 1, 1987. ONEHOUR ONEHOUR 
the ACC. L.lC~---·••••••••-~~~~::~...!! ............... ~.:~~~~--~:-------------~~~!:~~~ 
The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 9 

Irish baseball squad heads for San Antonio after three tough losses 

By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team will attempt to rebound from three close losses to In­diana last weekend when they head south over spring break to Texas. 
The Irish opened their season with the three defeats despite strong pitching performances from a young staff. 
"It is very difficult to start out 0-3," said Notre Dame head coach Larry Gallo. "We could have won three games this
ning track over Spring Break by improving at 

weekend. But we didn't, and
the plate. Brian O'Gara has details at right. 

that's all that counts. Indiana is a very good team but we are a very good team, too. 
"I was pleased with the way all our pitchers threw this weekend, especially Brian Piotrowicz. 
Indoor track places 17th at IC4A's 

as four shine an1ong strong field 
He pitched a great game Sun­
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish indoor track team ran to an impressive, though not totally satisfying, 17th­place finish at the IC4A Indoor Championships at Cambridge, Mass. 
The meet was won by Penn State, followed by Villanova, George Mason and Geor­getown. 
Four members did all the scoring for Notre Dame. Fresh­man Glenn Watson placed fourth in the 55-meter high hurdles with a time of 7.44, and junior Tim Brown took sixth in the 55-meter dash with a 6.43 clocking. 
Freshman Tom Kraus finished sixth in the shot put with a toss of 52-8 314, and soph­omore David Warth also placed in the 1000-meter run. 
"It was just a great track meet," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "It was the best IC4A's I've ever seen. The track was great and the depth of compe-
PE 
continued from page 12 
"We didn't get the points we needed when we had the ball at the end of regulation," said Peters. "After they jumped ahead in the OT, we couldn't tition was unbelievable." 
For example, the distance medley relay's time of 9:57.0 would have been good enough for second place last year, but this time around the Irish did not even place. The relay was comprised of Brown, senior co­captain Robert Nobles, fresh­man Mike O'Conner and soph­omore Ron Markezich. 
Others who qualified for the meet but did not place in the finals include Rick Muench in the triple jump and Chris Mat­teo, who was injured in the preliminaries of the pole vault. 
"We could have done a little bit better," said Piane. "Timmy Brown finished sixth, but he's better than that. Wat­son could have had second, and Kraus needed just an inch more." 
In a season of inches, the Irish indoor track team must be looking forward to the metric world of the outdoor season. This meet marked the end of the indoor season for the team, as no member qualified for the NCAA Championships. 
"The whole year we were inches away from a superb season," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "Consider Tim Brown and Tony Ragunas. They missed qualifying by just one one-hundreth of a second. Glenn Watson was just three one-hundreths of a second short of qualifying. And David Warth was just several tenths of a 
second short." 
But Piane has reason to be optimistic about the future. Of all the runners who ran at the IC4A's, only one is a senior. And the team is much more evenly balanced this year, a change from past seasons where the distance runners dominated. 
"We're a much better team than last year," said Piane. "We only had one senior at IC4A's, so the future is looking bright." 
The team has a two-week layoff ahead before moving outdoors. 

day but lost, 3-0. We didn't score any runs for him, but he threw as well as anybody I've seen as a freshman." 
The Irish fell behind early in the weekend's first game on Saturday as the Hoosiers took a 3-0 lead into the top of the eighth inning. Notre Dame's Steve Skupien and Pat Pesavento started a rally with a double and triple, respective­ly, and Dan Peltier, Chris Flynn and Scott Rogers punched consecutive singles to tie the score at 3-3. 
The Irish could not hold on to the lead, however, as Indiana scored the winning run in the bottom half of the inning to take a 4-3 victory. 
Both games of Sunday's doubleheader featured pitch­ing duels, but again the Hoosiers came out with the wins. Notre Dame's Kevin Chenail and Indiana's Scott Zimmerman both turned in complete games, yielding only five hits each. The game was tied 1-1 in the top of the seventh 
tle on the mound, as Piotrowicz
$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: 
gave up just one run and two walks. He was outdueled by the 
'A VALUABLE PROGRAM. Hoosiers' Eric Seiber who 

A PERSONAL CHALLENGE. 
ND juniors make NSC team 
The NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship 
wh , • .sh hrst baseman Timcatch up." 
made the final score 38-32. 

Hutson sent a ZimmermanPasquerilla East's Susan pitch over the right-field fence, Hayes took control early in the "Susan Hayes really came giving Notre Dame a 2-1lead.
extra period, scoring six quick through in the overtime," said With two out in the last frame points before B-P was able to P.E. coach Gary Sasse. "We of the contest, Indiana won theget off a shot. Then Romeo hit got the usua; great floor game game with a three-run hometwo free throws to put the game from Lauren Romeo, and both run, providing for the finalaway for Pasquerilla East. the little Colleen and the big margin of 4-3.
Curoe's last-second jumper Colleen played really well." 
The second game of the doubleheader was another bat­quieted Irish bats and sealed a 3-0 shutout for his team. 
"The first three games of the season were very good games," said Gallo, noting the closeness of the contests. "Both teams were fairly even as far as hitting and pitching. They happened to get a few more runs than we did." 
Indiana registered only two 
more hits than Notre Dame in 
the three games combined, 
holding a 21-19 edge. 
"We lost a lot of ballgames like this last year," added Gal­lo. "It kind of dwells on the returnees but we're going to be involved in a lot more of those games and we're going to win some. 
"We've got to go down south now and play some teams that have probably played 15 or 20 games already. That's just a fact of baseball that when you go down south the teams will have a jump on you. But in no way should that ever be used as an excuse." 
The Irish begin their annual spring trip with a doubleheader on Saturday with Screiner Col­lege. They will also face St. Ed­ward's, Southwest Texas State, Incarnate Word, Baylor and St. Mary's. Baylor has moved into the Top 20 in recent weeks and will be the toughest challenge in the already difficult eight­day, 10-game trip. 
"It'll be an interesting trip," said Gallo. "We've got to get something going. We're 0-3 so we have no place else to go but up. We're gonna win some bal­lgames and surprise some people. We play a darn good schedule so the kids have to be ready to play every time out. 
"The other team hears those two words, Notre Dame, and they think they're playing the football and basketball teams as well. It's a big game on the schedule of everyone we play." 
The three losses are on the books to stay for the Notre Dame baseball team, but that certainly isn't getting Gallo down. 
"Those three losses are over and done with," said Gallo. "Baseball is a great game be­cause you have to come out to the ballpark with a smile on your face because tomorrow is another day. 
"I'd walk to Texas right now if it meant we could play to­morrow, and I think I'd have 25 guys with me." 
that's wonh as much as $25,000. And it offers you the opponunity to become a Navy officer and start a successful career. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textb(X)ks, instructional Ices, and provides an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you'll become part of the Navy adventure as a commissioned Navy ollicer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
1-800-221-5932 
NN IY¥oFFICER. 



LEAD THE ADVENTURE. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame and DePaul each placed two players on the North Star Conference first team in the recent wo­men's basketball All­Conference selections. 
Juniors Mary Gavin and Sandy Botham represented the Irish, while senior guard Sally Anderson of DePaul led all ballots and was named Player of the Year. Anderson was joined by teammate Diana Vines on the first team. 
Dayton's Michele Kruty rounded out the first team. DePaul's third-year coach Jim Izard was voted the Con­
ference's Coach of the Year, as he led his squad to a 22-6 overall mark and a bid to the Women's National Invita­tional Tournament. 
Gavin led the league in as­sists with an average of 7.9 per game, while Botham scored 12.1 points and hauled down 7.1 rebounds per game. 
Notre Dame forward Heidi Bunek was a second­team selection, along with three players from Mar­quette -Beth Ayers, Kerri Christianson and Patty Baker. Kathy O'Brien of Dayton was also a second­team choice. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 10 
I.

Robinson is chosen unanimously > in 86-87 AP All-America selections 
NEW YORK -David Robin­son, the 7-foot-1 center who has been responsible for Navy's sudden success over the past three seasons, is the only unan­imous selection on the 1986-87 Associated Press college bas­ketball All-America team an­nounced Monday. 
Also chosen to the first team were Steve Alford of Indiana, the only repeater; Kenny Smith of North Carolina, Reggie Williams of Geor­getown and Danny Manning of Kansas, a junior and the only underclassman. 
The team was chosen by a 10-member AP panel of sports writers. 
Robinson, an outstanding shooter, rebounder and shot­blocker, led the Midshipmen to the Colonial Athletic Confer­ence title three straight years and into the NCAA playoffs each year. Last year Navy made it into the NCAA final eight, showcasing Robinson, and this season carry a 26-5 record into the tournament. 
Robinson, who averged 59 percent from the field, averaged 27.5 points, 11.8 rebounds and blocked 142 shots, the best in the nation, this season. He is the only player in NCAA history to score 2,500 points, grab 1,300 rebounds and shoot 60 percent from the field during his career. 
In four seasons, he has scored 2,619 points, 1,301 rebounds and compiled a 64 percent field-goal percentage. 
"I'm the only one who can stop me from scoring," Robin­son said this season. 
Alford, a four-year starter, is 

NEW YORK -The Associated Press Division I college basketball All­America team for 1986-87: 
First Team Steve Alford, 6-2, senior, Indiana Danny Manning, 6-11, junior, Kansas David Robinson, 7-1, senior, Navy Reggie Williams, 6-7, .senior, Geor­getown Kenny Smith, 6-3, senior, North Carolina 
Second Team Horace Grant, 6-10, senior, Clemson Armon Gilliam, 6-9, senior, Nevada-Las Vegas Dennis Hopson, 6-5, senior, Ohio State Mark Jackson, 6-2, senior, St. John's Ken Norman, 6-8, senior, Illinois 
Third Team Derrick Chievous, 6-7 junior, Missouri Dallas Comegys, 6-9, senior, DePaul Jerome Lane, 6-6, sophomore, Pit­tsburgh Derrick McKey, 6-9, junior, Alabama Tony White, 6-2, senior, Tennessee 
Honorable Mention Tommy Amaker, Duke; Freddie Banks, Nevada-Las Vegas; Nate Blackwell, Temple; Sherman Douglas, Syracuse; Ledell Eackles, New Orleans; Tellis Frank, Western Kentucky; Gary Grant, Michigan; Jeff Grayer, Iowa State; Her­sey Hawkins, Bradley; Kevin Houston, Army; Derrick Lewis, Maryland; Troy Lewis, Purdue; Reggie Miller, UCLA; Jose Ortiz, Oregon State; J.R. Reid, North Carolina; David Rivers, Notre Dame; Charles Smith, Pittsburgh; Rod Strickland, DePaul; Christian Welp, Washington; Joe Wolf, North Carolina. 
third-ranked Indiana's all-time scoring leader with 2,300 points. A member of the gold­medal 1984 Olympic team, he led the Hoosiers to a 24-4 record and a share of the Big Ten Con­ference title this year, making 86 three-point goals (51 per­cent) while averaging 21.8 points. 
Overall, the 6-2 guard made 49 percent of his field-goal at­tempts and 89 percent ot his free throws. 
The 6-3 Smith, another four­year starter, used his quick­ness to lead North Carolina in scoring with a 16.9 average, run the offense and play a key de­fensive role. 
Smith made 51 percent of his field-goal tries, including 75 three-pointers for 41 percent from long range. He led the team in assists (5.7) and tied backcourt partner Jeff Lebo for the team lead in steals with 45. 
Georgetown Coach John 
Thompson calls his fourth-ranked team "Reggie and the Little Miracles." He adds, "Without Reggie, there would be no miracles." 
The 6-7 Williams, only senior on the squad, carried the offen­sive load in leading Geor­getown, 26-4, to a share of the Big East Conference's regular season championship and to the postseason title .. 
The Big East scormg cham­pion led the Hoyas in scoring (23.3), rebounding (8.7) field goal percentage (49 percent), foul shooting percentage (79 percent) and three-point goals (67). He also holds the Hoyas' single-season scoring mark. 
Manning, a versatile per­former who played forward, center and guard, led the 20th­ranked Jayhawks, 23-10, in scoring (23.7) rebounding (9.7) and field goal percentage (62 percent). In the Big Eight tournament he scored a record 79 points in three games and was named the most valuable player although Kansas lost in the final. 



UNLV hangs on to top slot in poll; Irish ride recent win streak to 18th 
Associated Press 
Once-beaten Nevada-Las Vegas, the No. 1 seed in the NCAA tournament's West Regional of the NCAA tourna­ment, was the unamimous choice Monday as the nation's top college basketball team in the final Associated Press poll. 
"We're extremely pleased that we've had the ranking most of the season," Head Coach Jerry Tarkanian said. "I think the kids deserved it be­cause they played super bas­ketball in Los Angeles last week." They won the Pacific Coast Athletic Association tournament with victories by 35, 34 and 24 points. 
"We know the rankings won't mean that much when the regionals begin because that's where we've got to prove our­selves all over again." 
The Runnin' Rebels, who used the 3-point goal to their advantage all season, meet Idaho State in the first round of the NCAA tournament Thursday at Salt Lake City. 
"If the ball bounces right for us, I feel we have a chance this year," Tarkanian said. " we play real good defense. Our in­tensity and our defense have just been super. If we shoot well, we'll be OK." 
UNLV rebels, 33-1, received all 65 first-place ballots and 1,300 points from the nation­wide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. During the season, they were ranked No.1 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren· theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20·19·1 8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Nevada·Las Vegas (65) 33·1 1,300 
2. 
North Carolina 

3. 
Indiana 


4. Georgetown 
5. 
DePaul 

6. 
Iowa 

7. 
Purdue 

8. 
Temple 

9. 
Alabama 

10. 
Syracuse 

11. 
Illinois 

12. 
Pittsburgh 

13. 
Clemson 

14. 
Missouri 

15. 
UCLA 

16. 
New Orleans 

17. 
Duke 

18. 
Notre Dame 

19. 
Texas Christian 

20. 
Kansas 


29·3  1,146  
24·4  1,135  
26·4  1,068  
26·2  1,021  
27·4  949  
24·4  922  
31·3  884  
26·4  843  
26·6  692  
23·7  667  
24·7  534  
25·5  387  
24·9  349  
24·6  337  
25·3  305  
22·8  233  
22·7  201  
23·6  165  
23·10  138  

Others receiving votes: Oklahoma 70, Providence 46, Navy 38, Memphis State 34, Virginia 34, Florida 33, North Carolina State 28, St. John's 28, Michigan 
19. Southwest Missouri State 7, Texas·EI Paso 7, Marshall 6, Northeastern 6, Louisiana State 4, West Virginia 4. Western Kentucky 3, Wyoming 3, San Diego 2, Georgia Tech 1, Ohio State 1. 

12 times, including the final six weeks. 
North Carolina, Indiana and Georgetown, the other top seeds in the NCAA tournament, were second through fourth in the final poll. 
North Carolina, 29-3, the East's No. 1 seed, stayed No. 2 despite being upset Sunday by unranked North Carolina State in the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence tourney title game. 
The Tar Heels received 1,146 points, 11 more than Indiana, which shared the Big Ten title with Purdue. The Hoosiers, 24­4, advanced one place from last week's balloting and are the No. 1 seed in the Midwest Regional. 
Georgetown, which defeated Syracuse Sunday to win the Big East championship, moved from seventh to fourth with 1,068 points. The Hoyas, 26-4, are the top seed in the Sout­heast Regional. 
DePaul wound up No.5 and Iowa No.6, the same spots they held last week. The Blue Demons, 26-2, had 1,021 points, while the Hawkeyes, 27-4, had 949. 
Purdue, 24-4, dropped from third to seventh with 922 points after losing the regular-season finale 104-68 to Michigan. 
Temple, 31-3, the Atlantic 10 champion, remained No. 8 with 884 points and Southeastern Conference champion Ala­bama, 26-4, kept the ninth spot with 843 points. 
Syracuse, 26-6, remained No. 10 with 843 points. Illinois, 23-7, headed the Second Ten with 692 points. 
Then came Pittsburgh, Clemson, Missouri, UCLA, New Orleans, Duke, Notre Dame, Texas Christian and Kansas. 
Last week's Second Ten was Pittsburgh, Illinois, Clemson, Duke, Texas Christian, New Orleans, Oklahoma, UCLA, Missouri and Notre Dame. 
Kansas replaced Oklahoma in the Top Twenty after beating the Sooners 82-77 in a Big Eight Conference semifinal game. Missouri beat the Jayhawks 67­65 in the championship game. 
APPhoto 

Indiana guard Steve Alford (left) was named to the Associated Press All-America first team yesterday. The 1986-87 team is detailed at left, and this week's AP poll appears below. 
COME TO 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR THE SUMMER 
Camp Counselor Positions Available ot Outstanding Sports Camps 
Camp Wlnaukee for Boys and Roblndel for Girls. 
OnP. m11e oparl on 22 m1le lake, near 'On Golden Pond' s•te and !he Mome coos! Good so lanes and alllronsporlol•on po•d Seek quohtred spec•olisls 10 all areas 
Personal Interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11om to' 2pm -Tuesday, March 10 
Sign up in placeMent office or just stop by. 
Uojyursjtv of Notre Qame 


Foreign Study Programs 
Jerusalem 
Fall/Spring 1987-88 

Application Deadline for Fall 1987 and Spring ~988 is March 15, 1987 




................................................ 

SAB presents: ~ : 
The Hustler ~~,..~?. VVednesda~ Thursday o~~~~ i : : 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. ~~'% + 
: $1.00 EG Aud. o;, i 
................................................. 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
,· uuFr.·J~oF;-. 
~, f I \ I I I I , .. 
!'CRRY fllvFF) 
!'HLMf. r:'H REAtJI FVR HY 
(f'\,ffJ fiT /'.tJI,J. 
\ 





Campus 
L1:30 a.m.: Mass, John Carroll Univer­5ity Chorale of Cleveland, Sacred Heart Church, sponsored by University Mini­stry 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "The Interfacial Properties of Polyurethane Block Copolymers and Applications to Biomaterials Design," Timothy G. Grasel, University of Wisconsin, 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:00: Career Planning Workshop, "Don't Know What You Want to Do?," Joan Mcintosh, Career Counselor, Career & Placement Services Conference Room 
4:30: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Ef­fects of Fish Exclusion and Addition of Invertebrate Predators and Competitors on Plankton Dynamics in Oligotrophic Lake," Dr. Mike Vanni, Experimental Lakes Area, Manitoba, and University of Wisconsin, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
6:30: Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ball­room Dance Club, Grace Hall Party Room 
7:00: Last Lecture Series, "Hauntings," Prof. Penny Jameson, Chairman of Psy­chology Dept., Haggar College Center parlor 
7:30: 
Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's meeting, "Cares and Concerns of the Notre Dame Student of 1987," Dr. Patrick utz, Director, Notre Dame Coun­seling and Psychological Services, Memorial Library Faculty Lounge 

7:30: 
Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, "Mother Love and Child Death: A Critical Perspective on Child Survival in the Third World," Dr. Nancy Scheper-Hughes, Univ. of Calif., Berkeley, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, sponsored by the Dept. of Anthropology 

7:30: 
Tuesday Night Film Series, "Sans Soleil," Annenberg Auditorium 


OlAf's FtNNY.
' HA!NIN YfS tfiS, 
Mr TEACJIEI?
WILKEKSON. !H TNT THIS IS 
row Hf ro GO
SVPPOS£{) 1() TAK[ £a)NOHICS. 
ACALCVLVS TEST 
TO ROOH liB IN 
litRE. fiNS IS 
NI!UIJI..AN!>
I
/W1 118, !SilT IT) 

,. ' 

7:30: 'Discussion, SMC 1986-87 Justice Education Criminal Series, "How Wo­men are Affected by the Criminal Justice System," Charlotte Pfeifer, DuComb Center, moderator. Debbie Kingsberry, YWCA; Betty Mann, Federal Probation Dept.; Judge Jean Swartz; Felicia Sayer, Koala Outreach Services, panelists; Stapleton Lounge 
8:00: 
SMC Dept. of Music Graduate Ar­tists Recital Series, Kerstin Allvin, Little Theatre 

8:00: 
"Love, Sex, and the I.R.S.," Wash­ington Hall, sponsored by the St. Ed­ward's Hall Players, $1.50. 


10:00: "The Boathouse Blues Band" and "Word of Mouth," Theodore's, spon­sored by the Overseas Development Net­work, $2 donation goes to Third World development projects 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame 

Roast Top Round of Beef Au Jus Sweet & Sour Chicken Broccoli Cheese Casserole Grilled Ham & Swiss Sand­wich 

Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Beef & Vegetable Stir Fry Corn Dog Deli Bar 
SO~ TillS IS 
Til£ UBI?AR't. 
ACROSS 1 Pequod's captain 5 Poetry 
ingredient 10 Tex. city 14 Oner 15 Lizard 16 Ayatollah's 

country 17 Elbe tributary 18 Realtor's sign 19 Author Grey 20 Brie or Edam 22 Contest 
participants 24 Ear: pret. 26 Bambi for one 27 Insinuation 31 Indian ocean 
arm 35 Female rabbit 36 Kinshasa's 
land 38 Amusingly odd 39 Musical work 41 Rough shelter 43 Christmas 44 Household gods 46 Sea birds 48 Gentleman 49 Fragrances 51 Do an eco­
logical job 53 Small hotels 55 Mah-jongg 
piece 56 Superior 
performer 60 Chief 64 Forum wear 65 City on the 
Missouri 67 Dimensions 68 Partly open 69 Trimmed 70 Gumbo 71 Bloody 72 Frighten 73 Kind of tide 

DOWN 1 Author Waugh 2 Downs of TV 3 Helm position 4 FBI word 5 Motherly 

Far Side 

"'1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Freudian term 7 Legend 8 Edit 9 Cat at times 

10 Merlin's forte 11 Galway Bay 
isles 12 Tilt 13 1,1,1 21 Egyptian port 23 Critic Rex 25 Blockhead 27 Fallacies 28 Stock term 29 Kind of 
surgeon 30 Command 32 Drunkard 33 Psychologist 

Havelock 34 Attentive 37 White heron 47 FlaHish 58 Lab medium 40 Theological 50 Pries 59 GWTW place 
~­
----~-~~-------­
S~orts 

Notre Dame guard David Rivers, who took co­
MVP honors along with senior Donald Royal at 
the annual Irish basketball awards banquet last 
Wrestlers place fourth at Regionals 
By_ STEVE MEGARGEE news when it was announced ctergone arthroscopic s~rgery Sports Writer that it would be the site for next on his knee a week earher. 
year's NCAA Western "It showed a lot of courage
It finally happened. Regionals. This year's host on Chris's part, since his knee 
Mter enduring a regular school, sixth-ranked Northern was scoped last Friday," said season where everything that Iowa, won the regional team McCann. "To come back and could possibly go wrong some­competition. wrestle like that shows a lot of how found a way to occur, the At first it looked like the Irish courage and determination .." Notre Dame wrestling team ac­would have a tough time qual­Durso qualified by placmgtually had a weekend where ifying three wrestlers for na­second in the 134-pound cate­everything worked out as well tionals. Two of the team's top gory. He won his first three as possible. individuals, Geneser and 142-matches before losing to Joe 
The Irish placed fourth out of pound sophomore Pat Boyd, Gribben, 8-7, of Northern Iowa ten teams at last weekend's were coming off late-season in­in the finals. NCAA Western Regionals. juries that had sidelined them While Geneser and Durso en­Three individuals, 134-pound for _about two weeks. tered the regionals with respec­sophomore captain Jerry "Boyd would have made it tive records of 25-4 and 23-4, Durso, 150-pound junior Ron (to nationals), but his injury Wisniewski's chances of Wisniewski, and 167-pound really restricted him, said qualifying did not appear to be sophomore Chris Geneser, McCann. "CAndy) Raden­as strong with an 18-12 record. qualified for nationals. baugh would have been the Wisniewski was able to 
"Our goal was to try to get number-one seed if he had been qualify by winning his se~i­three people through," said able to compete. With Boyd and final match, 3-2, over J1m Head Coach Fran McCann.. Radenbaugh hurt, our goal was Schmitz of Marquette. Schmitz "The guys who did well really to get three people, and we had previously beaten Wis­prepared for it and really came did." niewski, 15-0, in last month's to wrestle. It's late in the Geneser was able to rebound National Catholic Tournament. season, and guys are tired, so from his knee injury to win the Wisniewski eventually lost in it really boils down to who 167-pound competition. He the finals, 15-8, to Northern wants it more. Desire plays an defeated last year's champion, Iowa's Pat Hogan, and finished important role.'' Scott Diveney of Drake, 3-2, in 
Notre Dame got more good the finals. Geneser had just un-see IRISH, page 7 
Tuesday, March 10, 1987-page 12 

Mid. Tenn. St. films cause Phelps problems 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN We'll just take it from there, and try to make a lot of game
Sports Editor 
adjustments. That's all you can 

When Irish head coach Dig­do." ger Phelps returned to South When Phelps looked at the Bend late Sunday night and statistics, he saw five starters said, 'Let's go to the videotape,' who average double-figures, to his chagrin he found he had led by 6-3 guard-forward none of Middle Tennessee Andrew Tunstill's 15 points per State, Notre Dame's opponent game. Dwayne Rainey, a 6-7 
NCAA Tournament 
The Road to Bourbon Street 

in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Thursday after­noon. 
The Irish coaching staff has a large volume of tapes of teams from around the country, but the Blue Raiders are not one of them. The Raiders, who play in the Ohio Valley Conference, did not receive much television expo­sure, and consequently Phelps and his staff had no video to watch in order to disect the Blue Raiders style of play. 
If this situation sounds familiar, it's because the Irish staff had no tape of Arkansas­Little Rock heading into last year's NCAA Tournament. 
"There's nothing much to say about Middle Tennessee," said Phelps at a press confer­ence at noon Monday. "We don't have any tapes. This is two years in a row that we haven't had tapes of the first opponent. I've got stats which show five players in double­figures, but that doesn't help me. I want to see them play and how they go the 86 points." 
By later that afternoon, Phelps and his staff had managed to find tapes of the Blue Raiders from December, but still were trying to locate more recent video. All this made preparation difficult at best. ' 
"We have to leave (Tuesday) night because our practice time is at one in Charlotte," said Phelps. "All we've got to do now is go over our stuff with­out knowing what to expect or what to see or what to do. That's one thing I don't like to do because I've been able to prepare this team for every game. As I look at it right now, there's nothing to do. 
"We'll just do what we've been doing as far as offenses ­our man stuff, our zone stuff. 

junior center, averages 14.5 points and nine rebounds a con­test. Randy Henry, a 6-9 forward-center, averages 13.6. The third me:'llber of the frontcourt, c-7 forward Tyrus Baynham, averages 10.5. 
The Blue Raiders floor leader is 6-4 senior guard Duane Washington. Washing­ton has dished out 248 assists this season while scoring 10.4 points per game himself. 
As a team Middle Tennessee State outscored its opposition by an average of 9.1 points and 

outrebounded  them  by  5.9  
boards.  
While  information  on  the  

Blue Raiders was still murky, information on ticket sales be­came clearer. Tickets went on sale Monday for $16 at the ACC ticket office. Tickets may only be reserved at the ticket office and must be picked up in Char­lotte. 
IRISH ITEMS -The annual basketball awards banquet was held Monday evening. Senior captain Donald Royal won six awards including the co-MVP from the Notre Dame Monogram Club, Rebounding Award (along with junior Gary Voce), Best Defensive Player, Most Accurate Shooter and the Captain's Award with Scott Hicks, who also won the Most Inspirational Player Award. 
The co-MVP along with Royal was junior guard David Rivers. Rivers also received the Assist Leader Award, a 1,000-point club plaque and the Father Tom Brennan Award for free-throw shooting. 

Voce won the Most Improved Player Award, while Mark Stevenson won the Offensive Efficiency Award. Sean Con­nor won the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Student Athlete Award. 
PE pulls out overtime victory over BP in IH championship 
rebounded. We just couldn't get and her teammates followed Donnelly leading the way for
By THERESA KELLY P.E. had the ball and the lead, 
Sports Writer the baskets we needed." with a run of six points to take Pasquerilla East, which held a but took a quick shot which was "It was obviously a tough a 7-6 lead. Another Curoe bas­23-20 lead heading into the off the mark. Itwas the stuff championship game," said winning coach ket gave the lead back to B-P, fourth quarter. Curoe grabbed the rebound games are made of. Chris Perozek. "It was a solid and free throw by Caroline A basket off a rebound by for B-P, and was later fouled 
Pasquerilla East and BreeD­team effort all the way." Burke closed out the first­Guicken brought B-P to within at the other end. Under pres­Phillips battled for the wo­Breen-Phillips ran off the quarter scoring with B-P two, but five straight points by sure, Curoe sank both free men's Interhall championship first six points of the game, in­leading 9-7. P.E. extended its lead to six. throws to tie the game with 42 Sunday, and P.E. captured the cluding a three-point play by Lauren Romeo started the Curoe's sank two free throws seconds left. crown with a hard-fought 38-32 Ann Curoe. Turnovers hurt second-quarter scoring for for B-P, but Donnelly's eight­Plenty of action but no overtime victory. Pasquerilla East early, as it P.E., tying the game at nine. foot jumper put P .E. up by six scoring concluded regulation
"We did what we had to do, was unable to get a shot off un­The teams traded baskets again with time running out. play, and the teams took a 30-30 fundamentally," said B-P til three minutes had elapsed throughout the second and But B-P was not finished. score into the three-minute coach Jeff Peters. "We kept in the first quarter. third quarters, with Burke and Guicken's basket and a layup overtime. them from getting the ball in­Kathleen McDavid got P.E. Cynthia Guicken hitting for by Curoe brought B-P within 
see PE, page 9

side and didn't get out-on the board with a free throw, Breen-Phillips and Colleen two, 30-28, with 1:45 to play. 








