
SPECIAL OLYMPICS ISSUE 
ISSOG Issue Tuesday August 4 1987 -page 1 
• The Official Publication of the International Summer Special Olympics Games 
Uniting the world 
Info-window 
~c~:-~~fcation 
By MIKE MURDOCK 
Observer Staff 
Lines and crowds are a part of every major media event -lines at registra­tion, at cafeterias, and at accomoda­tions. But some of the longest lines are forming behind the Info-window com­puter information centers. 
A joint project between IBM and Ben­dix, the Info-windows provide answers to almost every question. They help spectators locate events and competi­tions; they provide visitors with a description of South Bend and Notre Dame; and they help foreigners com­municate with one another, giving translations for greetings and other common phrases. 
Most onlookers find the system very helpful. "This is fantastic! We should have something like this," said Raad­bin Zeid, president of Jordan's dis­ability programs. He was able to track all of his athletes using the system. 
The most popular function is "Countries" which lists the partici­pants from all 72 countries. Athletes check personal information and search for friends from other teams and other competitions. 
The Spanish team searched through the list of Italian and French athletes to learn which friends came for the Olympics this year. Shaun Wright lo­cated his brother, a member of the Oregon team. 
"These are so easy to use," explained Shaun. "All you have to do is touch the picture and it does what you want." The computers were designed to be user friendly to encourage as many people to use them as possible. 
Fourteen Infowindows are located in Stepan Center, the ACC, and through­out the Olympic Village. IBM provided the terminals and Bendix organized the visual displays. 
The task was three times as difficult as it might have been because all visu­als are accompanied by explanations in English, French and Spanish. For 
-

some, the foreign languages were little more than amusing; Shaun learned how "Oregon" is spelled in Spanish. But for others the Spanish and French translations were necessary so they could understand the information. No one in the Spanish group spoke English. 
IBM is also closely involved in tabulating the results from all of the competitions. To manage the vast amounts of data, Compu Net donated software and IBM provided the com­puters and support staff to tabulate and track the results. The computers are located at the track & field, bowling, aquatics and gymnastic competion sites and in the CCE. "Once competion begins, each center is autonomous so that results can be posted as quickly as 

1 Language
f!'?··~:~~~~~~ion 

possible," expained Dave Kalling of Compu Net. 
In the complicated system used at the Games, problems are likely to arise, but Compu Net has done exten­sive testing, using these programs in 15 area competitions and the Indiana Special Olympics. 
"We might have been able to run a state competion manually tracking results, but an event of this size would be a nightmare without computers." according to Mark Flora, an IBM volunteer in charge of media services. 
"What's nice about these programs is that we will be able to provide so many statistics for competitors, their families and the schools when the Olympics are over and everyone goes home," said said. 
By KEVIN BECKER 
Observer Staff 
Kennedys and celebrities step aside. 
To well over 2,000 people at the 1987 International Summer Special Olym­pics Games, the volunteers manning the foreign language services commit­tee may just be the most important people at the Games. 
Seventy-two countries are contribu­ting to the international flavor of the ISSOG, and with that flavor comes the necessity to communicate. 
"We are constantly getting calls on the phone from people at events saying 'Oh my God, we need you right away!"' said Sarah Schroeder of the Language Services Center. 
According to Schroeder, 85-90-percent of the coaches from non-English speak­ing countries do not speak English, and only 50 percent of the delegations are proficient in the language. 
Because of these large numbers of people who cannot communicate in En­glish, the center has had a number of services to provide to the Games. Ac­cording to Schroeder, the committee found live-in hosts for each country coming to the Games, has screened 1,300 applications for translators and has provided trouble-shooting service throughout the course of activities. 
"We are trying to be as flexible as possible and show up to solve a problem so that we can help as best as we can," said Schroeder. 
The group of people trouble shooting for those who cannot communicate in English is called the "flying squad" and is composed mostly of locals who are native or near-native speakers of a foreign language. The members of this squad are easily identified by a sash hanging around their chest with the lan­guage in which they are fluent dis­played in both English and that lan­guage. 
The center also has arranged for 250 interpreters to be assigned to various sights throughout the Games to help anyone who needs assistance. 
Skills and smiles highlight rollerskating 
By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
If smiling were the main criteria for the women's freestyle rollerskating competition, Beth McLeary would win every time. 
The bubbly blond-haired girl from Knoxville, Tenn. used a routine of spins, arabeques and backwards skating to take fourth place in the wo­men's freestyle competition at Stepan Center Monday morning. 
After her routine, a smiling McLeary skated over to her coach, Cathy Adkins, and gave her a big hug. Her smile was even bigger at the awards ceremony, but once that ended, her happiness turned to eagerness for the next com­petition. 
"I have to practice," she said, knowing that the circle figure and speed skating competitions were yet to come. 
The winner of the freestyle skating was Kristina Slater of Oregon. Slater used a good combination of speed and control, often skating to the very edge of the floor before changing directions, to impress the judges. 
"She was really into her program," said Scott Myers, a judge and former USAC World Rollerskating Dance Champion with Anna Danks. "She had the best content and technical degree of skating." 
A tear came to Slater's eye as she accepted the gold in the awards cere­mony. 
The second-place finisher was Mic­helle Ball of Omaha, Nebraska. Wearing a red outfit handstitched by her coach in Nebraska, she opened with several spins and smoothly maneuvered around the rink. She clinched second place by hitting her fa­vorite move, the wash jump. 
"This is the big one," said Raeanna Larson, Ball's coach. "She likes the ar­
tistic  competition  better  than  the  
speed."  
Susan  Schwirian  of  California  

finished third. Using the entire rink, she highlighted her routine with graceful movements. Joan Alberts of Delaware took fifth place. 
All of the competitors are required to perform certain maneuvers, includ­ing spins, jumps and arabesques. 

------------~­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987-page 2 

Clinics Golf -Tom Hanlan (ND Golf 
~....... 


Coach) Burke Putting Green (next to 
soccer
gymnastrcs
SWJmmng 

Rockne)
-~ 
Gymnastics SoccerAquatic 
10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. 
8:30 a.m. -Gymnasium opens for 9:00a.m. -7:00p.m. 

Gymnastics (open) 
7:30a.m.-8:30a.m. 
warm-ups Round Robin Pool PlayHead Coaches Meeting Beginning Artistic Clinic _ 9:50 a.m. -Parade of athletes9:00a.m.-12:00 p.m. 

Julie McNamara 
10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.
Trials: ACC Fieldhouse 
Finals -Level I and II 50m Breaststroke 12:00 p.m. -1:30 p.m. 
.kL
Optionals Rollerskating (open) 4x25m freestyle Relay FE Level I 4x50m Medly Relay Stepan Center 

howling
Level II 25m Butterfly 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m.
BowlingDevelopmental Tumbling lOOm Freestyle 
1:00 p.m. -2:00p.m.

9:00a.m. -1:00 p.m.
12:30 p.m.-Gymnasium opens for 2:00p.m. -3:00p.m.
Singles Competition 


warm-ups Racquetball (Instructor clinic ­Highlight12:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Beginner athletes only) Artistic Clinic all ND courts 
1:50 p.m. -Parade of athletes and 
athlel•cs 


9:00 a.m. 
nrack & field) 
oath 10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.
2:00p.m. -5:00p.m.
Athletics 
1:00 p.m. -3:00p.m.
Finals -Level II Compulsories 
8:00a.m.-8:45a.m. 
c-,<:ling 

Aquatics Copen) 12:00 p.m. _
'
Floor EX athletics Coaches Meeting 1:00 p.m.-Judy Hug-Diving CyclingVault(astro-turf) 1:00 p.m. -2:00p.m. -Steve

4:30p.m.
Balance Beam Finals FisbtFlyVolunteer Meeting and Uneven Bars 9:00a.m. 11:00 a.m. 

2:00p.m. -3:00p.m. -Steve

Placement
Parallel Bars
3000m Run 

Fish-Breaststroke5:00p.m. -6:00p.m.
Rhythmic Compulsories 10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
4:00p.m. -5:00p.m. -John5 kim Warm-up 5:30 p.m. -Gymnasium opens for running Long Jump (3 pits) N aber!Backstroke 

6:00p.m.-7:00p.m
warm-ups11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m 
5:00p.m.-6:00p.m.-Mary
Finals
5:50 p.m. -Parade of athletes25m Motorized Wheelchair T. Meagher

lklm
7:00p.m. -9:00p.m.
Obstacle Course Bowling (open) 

6:30 p.m.
Finals -Level II Compulsories 12:00 p.m. -2:00p.m. 
9:00a.m.
1 kim Awards 
200m Dash • Floor EX 


Chippewa Bowling 
4:00p.m.-7:00p.m. 
Vault Athletics (open) 

High Jump (4 pits) Balance Beam 4:00-4:45p.m. 
4:00 p.m. -5:30 p.m. 
Uneven Bars 5:30-6:00p.m. 
50m Dash High Bars Cartier Field 
softball
5:30p.m.-6:00p.m. 



lrv MondscheinShot Put Softball25m Wheelchair Race Steve SimmonsSt. Long Jump
9:00a.m.-4:00p.m.
6:00p.m.-7:30p.m. 

Kayaking (open) Tournament Competition 400m Dash 7:00p.m. -9:00p.m.
6:30p.m. 
Rolf's Aquatic Center 
volleyball 
Celebrity Softball Game EquestrianVolleyball 10:30 a.m.

9:00a.m.-9:00p.m. 


Saint Mary's College A2 vs. A3 
basketball 
How To Set Up A
B2 vs. B3 

Handicapped Riding ProgramBasketball 
C2 vs. C3 
table tennis 

Team Handball (open)8:30a.m. -5:00p.m. 
A2 vs. A4 Table Tennis 10:30-11:15 a.m.
Team Practice 
B2 vs. B4 
9:00a.m. -5:00p.m. 
1:30-2:15p.m. 
ACC Intramural Gym D2 vs. D3 Practice: Gym £2 ACC Baton Twirling (open) Team Competition E2 vs. D3 6:00p.m.-7:30p.m. 

9:00a.m.
St. Joseph High School F2 vs. F3 
Trials 
ACC Gymnasium Gate 3 Darden School D2 vs. D4 


Cross Country 2:15p.m. & 6:00p.m. 
E2 vs. E4 10:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m.
Clinics ACC Gl vs. G4 

11:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m.8:30a.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Hl VS. H4 
11:30 a.m. -3:00p.m.
Team Competition 11 vs. 14 Ice Skating (open) 

weightlifting
ACC Arena-Feature Game 
G2 VS. G3 
10:45 a.m. -12:00 p.m.
ACC Auxiliary Gym WeightliftingH2 vs. H3 
12:00 p.m.-2:00p.m.
Clay High School 10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
12 vs. 13 
2:45p.m.-3:30p.m.
Basketball Information Center Dead Lift Competition 
G2 vs. G4 
EXPO Center ACC Gate 1 1:30 p.m.-3:00p.m.
H2 vs. H4 by Cypress Gardens Ice Show


Dead-Lift Competition 12 vs. 14 Alpine Sports (open) 

11:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. 
~: 
12:30 p.m. -1:00 p.m. 
1:00 p.m.-3:00p.m.
equestrian events 
by Billy Kidd 
roller skating 

Circular Zoneball Eq-;estrian 
tennis 
Roller Skating 9:00a.m. -10:00 a.m.
Finals 
9:00a.m.
Tennis 

11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m.10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. 
Volunteers Check In 10:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
12:00 p.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Showmanship 
10:00 a.m.
Finals -Singles 

1:00 p.m. -2:00p.m.2:00p.m.-4:00p.m. 
Clinics For Athletes And 1:00 p.m. -4:00p.m. 
2:00p.m. -4:00p.m.
TriaJ..Obstacle 
Coaches
Finals -Doubles 

5:00p.m.-6:00p.m.5:00p.m.-7:00p.m. 
11:00 a.m.
7:00p.m-9:00p.m. 
7:00p.m.-8:00p.m.
Equitation Clinics For Athletes And Finals -Singles 

Saint Mary's Field5:00p.m.-7:00p.m. 
Coaches
Horsemanship 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

L'INFO-WINDOW FACILITE LA COMMUNICATION 
Par MIKE MURDOCK 
Joumaliste de l'Observateur 
Les queues et les foules font partie de tout 
evenement d'interet pour les media -des 
queues a !'inscription, aux retaurants, et aux 
residences. Mais parmi les queues les plus 
longues sont celles devant les appareils de 
renseignements informatises, les 
Info-Windows (soil Ecran-Info). 
Realises par les Societes IBM et Bendix, en 
collaboration, les Info-Windows offrent des 
rcponses a presque toutes les questions. Ils 
aident les spectateurs a trouver les animations 
et les cpreuves; ils foumissent aux visiteurs 
une description de South Bend et de 
l'Universite Notre-Dame; et ils facilitent 
mcme Ia communication entre personnes de 
langues differentes en leur proposant des 
equivalents pour les expressions courantes. 
La plupart de ceux qui ont vu l'appareil le 
trouvent trcs utile. "C'est fantastique! Nous 
devrions avoir quelque chose de ce genre," a 
dit Raadbin Zeid, president des programmes 
pour handicapes de Ia Jordanie. II a pu suivre 
les deplacements de ses athletes grace a ce 
system e. 
La fonction Ia plus recherchee est celle des 
"pays", qui comporte les listes de tous les 
participants des 72 pays. Les athletes 
verifient les renseignements donnes a leur 
sujet et les cherchent pour leurs amis faisant 
partie d'autres equipes et inscrits a d'autres 
epreuves. 
L'Equipe d'Espagne a consulte les listes des 
athletes fran~ais et italiens pour savoir 
lesquels de leurs amis participent aux Jeux de 
cette annee. Shaun Wright a pu retrouver son 
frere, qui fait partie de l'equipe de !'Oregon. 
"IIs sont si faciles a utiliser," m'a explique Shaun. "Tout ce qu'il faut faire c'est toucher !'image du doigt, et il fait ce que vous desirez." Ces appareils informatises sont faciles d'emploi pour que le plus grand nombre de personnes puissent s'en servir. 
II y a quatorze info-Windows, situes au Centre Stepan, au Palais des Sports (ACC), et au quatre coins du Village Olympique. IBM s'est charge du cote ordinateur et Bendix, des presentations visuelles. 
Leur tache etait trois fois plus difficile, car toutes les images s'accompagnent 
par Pete Gegen Journaliste de L'Observeteur 
La pelouse nord-est de Saint Mary's College a change d'aspect grace aux epreuves d'equitation qui constituent l'un des cinq sports de demonstration des Jeux Intemationaux Special Olympics d'Ete 1987. Une grande tente abrite 40 boxes provisoires, couvrant un quart de Ia pelouse. Trois pistes distinctes destinees aux diverses 
cpreuves  equestres  ocupent  le  reste  de  Ia  
pelouse.  
Les  cavaliers  portant  leur  materiel  et  Ia  

barricre de poteaux blancs donnent a l'endroit 

Les Jeux Internationaux ont reunit les athletes du monde qui partagent d'un reve common. Leur ambition et leur dedication ont inspire les volontaires et les spec­tateurs. Quand les gens avancent avec ces spirits, nous avancons par un pas a l'union du mejnde. 
d'explications en anglais, fran~ais, et qu'au Centre de !'Education Perrnanente (CCE). espagnol. Pour certaines personnes les "Des que Ia competition commence, chaque versions en trois langues etaient aussi utiles centre est autonome et peut afficher les qu'amusantes. Shaun a appris que !'Oregon resultats dans les meilleurs delais," m'a 
s'ecrit de Ia meme fa~on dans les trois 
langues. D'autres avaient besoin des versions 
espagnoles et fran~aises pour pouvoir 
comprendre les renseignements. Aucun des 
Espagnols ne parlait I'anglais. 
IBM participe largement a l'inforrnatisation des resultats de toutes les epreuves. Pour traiter Ia quantite enorrne de donnees, Compu Net a offert les logiciels et IBM a foumi les ordinateurs et le personnel necessaire pour 
leur fonctionnement. Les ordinateurs sont situes aux sites des epreuves d'athlCtisme, de bowling, de natation, et de gymnastique ainsi 
explique Dave Kalling, representant de Compu Net. A cause du systeme complique utilise pour 
les Jeux, des problemes peuvent se presenter, mais Compu Net a fait l'essai de ses logiciels en les utilisant au cours de 15 competitions 
regionales et des Jeux Special Olympics de l'Indiana. 
""Ce qui est bien en employant ces logiciels, c'est la quantile de statistiques que nous allons pouvoir communiquer aux participants, a leurs families, et a leurs ecoles apres les Jeux Special Olympics quand tout le monde rentrera chez soi," a-t-il ajoute. 
LA SERVICE AIDE LA COMMUNICATION 
par KEVIN BECKER 
Joumaliste de J'Observateur 
Les Kennedy et autres personnalites sont pries de ceder le pas. 
Aux yeux de plus de 2 000 des participants aux Jeux Internationaux, ce sont les volontaires des Services Linguistiques qui sont peut-etre devenus lcs personnalites les plus importantes des Jeux. Soixante-douze pays contribuent a donner a l'ISSOG son caractere international, qualite qui entraine Ia necessite de communiquer. 
"Nous recevons constamment des appels telephoniques de participants du genre: 'Ah mon dieu, nous avons besoin de vous immediatement,"' nous rapporte Sarah Shroeder, membre du centre des Services Linguistiques. D'aprcs Mme Shroeder, de 85 a 90% des entraineurs des pays non anglophones ne parlent pas anglais, et seulement 50% des delegations parlcnt couramment I'anglais. Devant le grand nombre de gens qui ne peuvent communiquer en anglais, le centre a mis plusieurs services a la disposition des Jeux. Scion Mme Shroeder, le comite a recrute des hates permanents pour chaque pays participant aux Jeux. 11 a. examine 1 300 offres d'interprctes benevoles et a mis au point un service de depannage tout au long des activites. "Nous nous effor~ons d'etre aussi souples et efficaces que possible et d'etre la pour resoudre tout probleme afin de donner toute !'aide possible," nous a declare Sarah Shroeder. 
Le groupe charge de depanner ceux qui ne peuvent communiquer en anglais, baptise "l'equipe volante", comprend essentiellement des gens d'ici, dont Ia langue etrangere est comme Ia langue maternelle ou peu s'en faut. On les reconnait aisement a l'echarpe qu'ils portent sur In poitrine, indiquant en anglais et dans leur deuxicme langue Ia langue de leur specialite. Le centre s'est egalement arrange pour disposer 250 interpretes dans des points varies pendant les Jeux, pour aider toute personne ayant besoin de leurs services. Mme Shroeder vous ra.ppelle que toute personne a.yant besoin d'une aide pour communiquer doit s'adreser a un membre de l'equipe volante ou essayer de contacter le Centre des Services Linguistiques au Centre d'Education Perrnanente (CCE). 
LES SPORTS EQESTRES· ARRIVE A SMC 
une veritable ambiance equestre. Bien entendu, et comme le fait remarquer Susan Mueller, coordinatrice volontaire, cela n'est pas aile tout seul. "Cela a ete tres difficile, dit-elle. Samedi demier, le 25 juillet, le sol etait extrcmem....lt dur et sec, et l'equipe de travail devait venir planter 75 poteaux. Rien que cela a pris 12 heures" Un groupe de jeunes tcmporaires s'est occupe de peindre Ia barriere en blanc. Cela aurait dii conclure les prcparatifs pour les pistes, mais un petit probleme a oblige Ies volontaires a ne pas rester inactifs. "De petits rongeurs creusaient le sol et Iaissaient des trous, continue Mme Mueller. Nous avons essaye de combler les trous avec de Ia terre, mais le lendemain matin, les trous etaient revenus. Nous avons done appele la SPA qui no us a conseille de mettre de Ia naphtaline dans les trous avant de les reboucher." Les volontaires ont egalement signale Ia presence des trous aux cavaliers avec de Ia peinture fluorescente. 
L'ecurie provisoire a ete Ioue a Ia Societe Cattleman's Leasing, du Missouri. C'est une grande distance acourir pour une ecurie, mais le produit de Cattelman offrait des avantages par rapport aux autres societes. 
"l'ecurie est tres sure car les boxes sont faits de toile tres rigide et ferme, dit Mueller. Les autres sont faits de planchettes de bois et Ies chevaux peuvent y passer les pattes et se faire des entorses." La securite est Ia preoccupation majeure de cette epreuve, particulierement pour les cavaliers. Les chevaux ont etc choisis avec soin dans des fermes du nord de ]'Indiana et du sud du Michigan. Parmi les 37 chevaux essayes vendredi, seuls deux ont du etre envoyes car ils etaient destines a des cavaliers de niveau plus avance. A l'origine, les eprcuves d'equitation ne dcvaient pas se derouler sur le campus de Saint Mary's 
College,  mais  au  Centre  d'Equitation  de  
Kingston, situe  au  sud de  Ia  ville  sur  Ies  
terrains  de  Jeanne  Miller,  Presidente  du  

Comite responsable des epreuves equestres. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
------~----~ 
~T~~he~O~b_se_r_ve_r T_ue_s_d_a~y~,_A_u~gu_s_t_4~,_19_8_7_-_p_a_g_e_4
____________________________________________________________I_S_S_O_G_I_s_su_e__ 
J 
r 
r 
r Gymnast uses size 

By CATHY -'STACY Observer Staff 

Already at 19, Chad is clearly a cham­pion: he is the goldmedal holder in all the men's gymnastic events in his state and, understandably, the role-model for his Louisiana team. 
His favorite routine is performing on the rings where he swings all 4' 8" of his muscular body into difficult L-sits, iron crosses, inverted handstands and front and back releases. 

"I practice four and a half hours four days a week," this explosive bu?dle of energy said."I've been workmg on plunges but I was tired -that's why I didn't do one,'' he comments after prac­ticing an already spectacular routine that was rewarded with enthusiastic applause. 
Because of his small size, Chad's par­ents were worried that he might be in­jured if he carried out his dream to play football. 
"His junior high coach encouraged 
him (to do gymnastics). We never had 
to push him. He always wan~ed to pl~y 
all kinds of sports. We were JUSt afratd 
he'd get hurt," said Roy Oncale 

Chad's interests in running and weight lifting had already given him the stamina and strength needed to compete in gymnastics. With only "three or four" years of training, Chad has entered three meets and consis­tently won the gold in each event. 
"I put all my medals in my room," says Chad, who warmly thanks those walking by and still congratulating him on his routine. 
"He'll mingle with total strangers. He loves kids and (his team members) all look up to him,"said a very proud father. Mr. Oncale is also impressed with the work Chad has done in school he is graduating this year -and the en­thusiam and dedication with which he approaches everything he does. 
Like many of the athletes participat­ing in the Summer Games, Chad attri­butes his success to the support of his family. With loving admiration he talked of his brother and sister. "My family is wonderful," he said with a radiant smile. 
Many Olympians share impressive and inspirational stories, and Chad's is continuing here at the Games which be highlighted, he hopes, with six more gold medals. 
Variety show to entertain Speci,al Olympians 
By Jim Ryan Observer Staff 

For the past three days, spectators have been entertained by the coura­geous performances of the Special Olympians. On Wednesday night, however, it is the athletes' turn to be entertained. 
The event will be the 1987 Interna­tional Special Olympics' Sports Spec­tacular, and the focus will be to step back from competition and let the ath­letes enjoy a variety show hosted by Olympic medalists Mary Lo~ Retton and Bart Conner in the ACC. 
According to Vicki Mcintire, Chair­woman of the Entertainment Commit­tee for the Games, the night will include a multi-image presentation of the ath­letes on two large screens dropped from the roof of the ACC arena. The presentation will consist of pictures taken by four photographers who have been following the athletes since they began arriving four days ago. 
The night will begin and end with a very special performance by Notre Dame security officer Irv Sikorski, who composed the song "The Magic is There" especially for the Sports Spec­tacular. 
The Sports Spectacular will highlight gymnastics, with an exciting exhibition by Retton, Conner, Tracee Talavera and Lydia Bree. However, the night will not be limited to gymnastics. Other performers include hula hoop champ Mat Plendl, who has appeared on the Tonight Show; a slam dunk demonsta­tion by Spud Webb of the Atlanta Hawks; world class ice skaters fom Cy­press Gardens, Florida; and the St. Louis Zips, a group of 14 basketball dribbling whizkids. 
The doors open at 6:00p.m., with the festivities scheduled to begin at 7:30 
p.m.. The event is open to the public, but there will be limited seating avail­able in the bleachers only. The public should enter through gate 8. 
To everyone who goes the distance every day, AT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates salutes you! 
AT&T is proud to be asponsor ofthe 1987 International Summer Special Olympics Games. And we'll continue to support the year-round efforts of Special Olympics with a contribution for every $25 gift pack ofAT&T Long Distance Gift Certificates ATs.T purchased. To order, calli 800 GIFT ATT. The right choice. 

©1987 AT&T 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 5 
Argentina wins Challenge 
By KIM YURATOVAC 
Observer Staff 
Celebrities, athletes, coaches and friends united in yesterday's Civitan Celebrity Challenge at Cartier Field. Six teams competed in an obstacle course which included running, tricycle riding and skateboarding. 
The teams, which represented Illi­nois, Ireland, Argentina, Kenya, Trinidad and Tobago, and Yugoslavia, each consisted of two Special Olym­pians, a coach, a family member and two celebrities. 
Argentina, accompanied by Olympic gymnast Mary Lou Retton, captured the first round against Yugoslavia with a time of 36.7 seconds. Retton edged swimmer Betsy Mitchell who finished with a time of 35.8 seconds. 
Yugoslavian coaches and athletes had difficulty riding their team's tricycle which the judges later figured out had a broken chain. 
The Illinois team, led by actress Mar­lee Matlin, won 1ts first round against ireland's honorary delegate, Ethel Kennedy. 
The Irish, also helped by Olympic swimmer Mary Meagher, succumbed again to Illinois in a later round which pitted Meagher against gymnast Tracee Talavera. 
Matt Thomas, .Junior Civitan Presi­dent, led the Trinidad and Tobago delegation with a time of 29.6 seconds. Trinidad and Tobago was also aided by Olympic swimmer John Naber. Naber beat actor Dick Sargent in a close race. 
The final rounds of the competition pitted family member against family member in the battle of the Kennedys and Shrivers. Tirno'hy Shriver edged Anthony Shriver, and in a dramatic final race, John Kennedy, Jr. beat cousin Mark Shriver. 
After Kennedy's victory, Shriver teased, "he cheated!" 
The 23-year-old Shriver has been in­volved with Special Olympics his entire life. He has attended events throughout the United States and Europe. "Special Olympics is a wonderful worldwide or­ganization," he said. 
"There's a lot of sharing and caring that goes on he1·e." Celebrities and Olympians alike displayed this bond as they united in a joint effort: to have some fun. 
Argentina captured first place over­all, but in an event like this, as announ­cer Lynn Swann reminded, there are only winners. 
The Challenge was sponsored by Civitan International, one of the biggest sponsors of Special Olympics. Civitan International raised $1.6 million for the Games and contributed 1,000 volun­teers, many of whom supervised yes­terday's Challenge. 
Founded in Alabama in 1917, CIVITAN is an all-volunteer service or­ganization with clubs in North America, Europe and Asia. 
The celebrities and athletes were cheered on by a large crowd of sup­porters. Marlee Matlin posed for pic­tures with Olympians and Mary Lou Retton waved to the crowd as the au­dience shouted, "Mary Lou."· 



!"""----------~~­
The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 6 
Historic Idaho soccer team beats Kentucky 
By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
The history of Idaho soccer was represented in its state's delegation on Alumni Field Monday, challenging Kentucky in an F -class soccer game. 
The history of Idaho soccer? Yes, soc­cer is spreading across the United States, and about four years ago it reached the Potato State in the form of this Special Olympic soccer team. 
"We picked it up from Washington," said Jim DuBusion, a coach for the Idaho soccer squad. "We were the first team in the state, even before the high schools. Now it has spread from Coeur d'Alene to Boise and Pocatello." 

Thus soccer was born in Idaho. About 20 high schools have picked up the sport since, but the state's original squad remains one of its toughest, as it beat Kentucky, 5-2. 
Kentucky opened the scoring when David Hanna beat his defender and scored. 
Idaho evened the score on a delayed­reaction goal. A shot by Josh Rogers deflected off the keeper's hands, hit the post and slowly rolled over the line. The referee stopped play, but none of the players realized the goal had been scored until the Idaho coaches were in­formed that the ball had in fact crossed the line. The coaches then started cheering, alerting the players that the goal had been scored. Thus the reaction to the goal was delayed. 
Tammy Metzler then put Idaho up 2-1 when she knocked home a loose ball in front of the Kentucky goal. 
Hanna quickly put Kentucky back into the game in the second half when he scored on a breakaway at the 31:27 mark of the game. 
But Idaho pulled away on goals by Rogers and Kevin Mitchell. Rogers' goal came on a rebound after Kentucky keeper Brad Henehan made an excel­lent save on a point-blank blast. 
Idaho later added an insurance tally to give the final 5-2 score. 
Mexican soccer team has one of those days 
By PETE GEGEN 
Observer Staff 
Monday was one of those days for the Mexican soccer team. 
The Mexicans were facing the El Sal­vador team in an A-class game. The Salvadorians were just off a tough loss to Chile the day before, while Mexico was playing its first match. 
Midway through the second half the Mexicans were trailing by four goals. Head Coach Fernando Vasquez yelled instructions from the sidelines, but he knew it was one of those days. 
"It is not going good," said Roberto, the translator for the team. 
A Salvadorian breaks free and scores another goal. In the hot humid weather, it seems like the game will never end. 
"When we lose, we lose bad,"­Roberto says. Another Salvadorian goal is scored, this time 11 slicing shot from the right 
side finds the back of the net. By now the Mexicans could be getting frustrated, but Roberto explains that this is not the case. He says that the coach had told the team that they might loose a few games, but there will still be a party after it is all over. 
Another shot is blasted through the Mexican keeper's legs, making the score seven ... no, eight...whatever, it doesn't matter. It is just one of those days. 
Besides, the team can always look forward to tomorrow. The only thing that could thwart that is ifthe Mexicans were to play the formidable Chile squad Tuesday. So what team do they play Tuesday? 
Chile. 
Vasquez isn't discouraged, though. He will have his team ready for the Chileans. What's his game plan? 
"Es un secreta professional." 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 7 
Floor hockey gains interest 
By JUDY MOLNAR 
Observer Staff 
Fast-paced action, close checking and stingy defense all contribute to making the game of floor hockey, despite the lack of ice, an exciting sport. 
Walter Jackson, San Diego's area co­ordinator for floor hockey, is the direc­tor of the sport for the Games. San Diego County has over 20 teams that participate in the ·floor hockey sport. 
"The sport is one where any ability level can play," said assistant coordin­ator Kathy Nelson. 
Game play is very similiar to watch­ing a ice hockey game, without the vi­olent checks. Movement of the puck is fast as it travels along the smooth floors of basketball courts. 
The hockey sticks and pucks are spe­cifically designed for the game. The hockey stick is about four feet long and resmebles a broom stick. The puck is a large circular object with a hole in the middle so the hockey stick can be put in the puck to move it across the floor. 
At the clinic on Monday afternoon, Jackson demonstrated how to do stick checks, face offs and defensive moves, and how to lift shots and score goals. 
Information prepared by Jackson said, "Because most Special Olympics volunteers have no knowledge or con­ception of floor hockey, they are afraid to coach floor hockey. However, once exposed, volunteers become addicted to floor hockey and will coach it for years. 
"The volunteer needs no prior hockey background, as the rules are simple and can be picked up quickly. The sport is fun to play, both for the volunteer and the Special Olympics athlete." 

Snow appears at SMC campus 
By KIM YURATOVAC 
Observer Staff 
Amid yesterday's 90-degree heat, there was a breath of winter. Red Lobster sponsored a "Snowfest" at the EXPO Center at Saint Mary's College for Special Olympians, their families, coaches and members of the press. 
Over 120 tons of ice, that's a quarter of a million pounds, provided the snow for the skiers. "We let the ice melt a little," said Jim Meyer, Winter Sports Director for the International Special Olympics Headquarters, "then we put ammonium nitrate on it to raise the freezing temperature of the snow." 
Over 100 people participated in the event. There were athletes from such countries as Zimbabwe, Colombia, Bar­bados and Brazil practicing in the af­ternoon sun. Many have never even seen snow before. 
"Their reactions are always smiles," Meyer said. "We have world champion skier Billy Kidd, instructor Irene Nel­son, Lake Placid Women's coach Betsy Meyer, Michigan skiers Jim Bradley and Mike Metro and myself acompany them down the slope. They are doing very well. It takes a while for those who have never walked on snow before, but once they've grasped the sensation of sliding, they've got it." 
Athletes were all smiles as they at­tempted both cross-country and down­hill skiing. 1964 Olympics silver medalist Billy Kidd helped to demon­strate techniques like "snowplowing" on the 120-foot long man-made snow mountain deemed "Mount Special Olympus." Today is the final day of "Snowfest." Hours are from 9 a.m. -3 p.m. 
HE'S AN ATHLETE. HE'S AN OLYMPIAN. AND HE'S A HERO. 
The Knights of Columbus is proud to be part of the SpecialOlympics. We're proud of each of the heroic athletes who are participating in the Summer Games. 
The Kof Chelps out in lots of ways. We're toordinating the volunteer involvement of nearly 5,000 Kof C members and their families ... contributing a quarter million dollars as a Principal Sponsor ... arranging housing in the South Bend 
area for athletes' families ... and recruiting more than 1,200 vol­unteers for the opening ceremonies of the '87Games We're also pleased to havr provided the printing of 25,000 copies of a commemorative poster I by noted artist john L. Terelak. .1 
The Knights of Columbus is a Catholic, family, fraternal benefit society with 1.4 million dues-,paying members worldwide. 
,I 
I 

The Knights of Columbus works this hard because we believe volunteers make a big difference in the Games ... and the world. 
That's why the Knights' donated 21 million man-hours to community service and made $67 million worth of charitable disbursements last year.($11.3 million of that total benefitted programs for mentally 
retarded citizens.) 
It's why the Knights received the President's Volunteer Action Award from President Reagan for "Mobilization 
of Volunteers." 
And it's why we're proud to be part of the Summer ·Games. 


-
-

The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987-page 10 
Phones, food, fun provided at Olympic Town 
By MATT SITZER Observer Staff 

Athletes and coaches strolling through Olympic Town this week will have the opportunity to see, experience, and sometimes taste the efforts of a number of the International Summer Games' major sponsors. 
Just after entering the multi-activity entertainment center, an athlete or coach can simply turn left and place a short phone call to any place in the world·free of charge. This service, pro­vided by Principal Sponsor AT&T, is one of the most popular attractions at Olympic Town. 
Maureen Gilday, AT&T area manager for Indiana and special events coordinator, said Special Olympics par­ticipants have placed calls to countries as far ..away as Zimbabwe, Monaco, and Japan. She expects the volume of calls to increase once the final competition for medals begins. 
After talking to friends and loved ones from home at the AT&T booth, competitors and coaches can partake in some "sweet relief" from the hot summer sun at the Hardees Free Ice Cream Stand. 
Hardees Restaurants, a Platinum Sponsor of the Games, is offering a number of services throughout the Games, but perhaps none of them are appreciated more than their refresh­ingly cool ice crean cones. 
"We are going through about 1,000 cones an hour," said Mo Brennan, a Hardees enployee from Livonia, Mic­higan. "My husband Bob and my daughter and son-in-law Steven and Kelli Groth are here helping out even though they're not Hardees employees. I couldn't keep them away!" The Hardees booth in Olympic Town will be open all week long to give athletes and coaches a short, but sweet respite from the steamy Indiana weather. 
Just a short walk from the Hardees Ice Cream Stand is the Civitan Inter­national Photo Booth. Members of Civitan International, the Premier Sponsor of the International Summer Olympics Games, have been serving as volunteers for almost all events and providing a number of services to both athletes and spectators. At the Civitan booth, athletes can have their pictures taken with any number of celebrities, VIPs and special guests that happen to be attending Olympic Town events. 
Volunteer Peggy Elliott, a Civitan member from Topeka, Kansas, speaks highly of her fellow Civitan co-workers. "We have people working at just about every event of the Games," she said. "When we aren't out on assignment at the various events, we help out on cheering teams and at our Olypic Town photo booth." 
Because Civitan is an international organization, they have members from around the world in attendance at the Games to assist their brother and sister members from the United States. 
"I just met some of our members from Norway, a few hours ago," said Elliott. 
In addition to the Civitan booth, other big attraction at Olympic Town is Red Lobster's Pin Central pin exchange, lo­cated near Olympic Town's entertain­ment stage. Dick Monroe, director of public relations for Red Lobster, speaks very enthusiastically about his company's contribution to the Interna­tional Games. 
"We're doing a number of interesting things for Special Olympics," said Monroe. "With our Pin Central booth, we're trying to start a tradition much like the regular Olympic Games. Ath­letes can come here to find pins from over 150 organizations and countries, and then trade us some of theirs for some of ours." 
Monroe added that Pin Central also served as a meeting place for athletes to talk and exchange stories and ad­dresses as well as their pins. 
Volunteers from Red Lobster are winners of a nation wide employee es­say contest. Contest winners were given the opportunity to lend their ser­vices to the many Red Lobster spon­sored events and activities at these Summer Games. 
One of the essay winners now working at Pin Central remarked that he had "never worked so hard in his life, but had never enjoyed himself more." 
Monroe added that Red Lobster has 52 employees here, representing 22 states. Monroe seemed to be speaking for all the major sponsors when he remarked that the decision to contrib­ute their time and money to the Sum­mer Games was "a decision of the heart." 


Six teams participated in the Civitan Celebrity Challenge at 

-
-
-------~---~----------­
---~--l 
The Observer 
ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 11 

'l'he Observel'/Wen Yl Zoneball and wheelchair races have opened the Olympic events to physically handicapped athletes who may not have been able to participate in other sports. One need only look around to see this summer's champions. 
By BOB TYLER 
0:~:a::: atmosphere and hot as 
phalt taxed everyone. Heat beating down from a naked sun was preferable to the weekend's crying skies, espe­cially for tennis. 
Special Olympians, fans, and volun­teers gathered behind Notre Dame's ACC for the second of three rounds of doubles tennis. There is one round per day. 
A few ladies waited underneath blue and green umbrellas. Ball boys and girls drinking soft drinks waited for their tasks. Officials surveyed the court line-up, and coaches gave last minute tips to the athletes, anxious on the side lines. 
At one fifteen in the increasing after­noon heat, an official ordered the players to four of the six courts. 
Court One's umpire, Barbera Gilbert, called Kansas and North Carolina to the net. The North Carolina cousins, Ken and Wesley McKeitheb, leaned on it across from their Kansas opponents, Ted Donlinger and Barb McEldownley. The umpire wished them luck. 
North Carolina and Kansas volleyed for a ten minute practice session. The McKeithebs appeaed reassured. Kansas' Donlinger seemed intense, perhaps thinking of the game to come. His partner seemed to be taking it in stride. 
Tennis, singles and doubles, took a place as a competitive sport at the In­ternationas Special Olympics Games for the first time here at Notre Dame. Michel Gelfman, the university's wo­men's tennis coach, planned and developed the program with the help of 
~:i~\~~~~:::i::::~::no:~:~ 
thiry-eight participating Special Olym­pians could participate with any high school tennis team. He hopes that by the eighth International Games, there will be twice as many athletes in the competition. 
Gilbert called for the match to begin. North Carolina won the toss and elected to serve. 
The North Carolinians took charge as Ken McKeitheb popped the ball with a racket swish into the Kansas court. Kansas' Donlinger returned it into the net, which left him quite irritated. 
The McKeithebs went on to rule the court for the first three games of the one set match. They served and returned the ball well to Donlinger and McEldownley. Donlinger's irritation received sympathetic glances from his teammate. 
But then in the fourth game, the team from Kansas overtook the two North Carolinians. McEldownley and Donlinger mixed lobs, slams, and good netplay to finally overtake their two op­ponents 6-3. 
Kansas' volunteers cheered and Donlinger and McEldownley each cracked wide smiles. The plains state's players and fans hug and congratulated them. 
As the few remaining doubles matches finished,the asphalt was warm enough to give players and fans the "hot foot." Eggs could fried on it. 
Second round action ended, and fans and athletes vacated the court area in favor of some cool shade. 

-----~-~-­

The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 19B7-page 12 

By MATT SITZER Observer Staff 

Jim McCann is a highly respected businessman. His successful dial-in flower company, BOO-FLOWERS, has developed a special "Hooray Bouquet" to raise money for this year's Interna­tional Summer Games --an effort truly appreciated by Games fundraising of­ficials. But Jim McCann has a special interest in the success of the Games. 
His younger brother, Kevin, a Special 
, Olympian for the past six years, will be competing in the one mile and BOO meter runs. Kevin is one of the major inspirations that led to McCann's de­velopment of the "Hooray Bouquet." 
The "Hooray Bouquet" is a lavish as­sortment of colorful, fresh-cut flowers packaged in an attractive gift box. Ad­vertised as "the perfect gift for any oc­casion," the "Hooray Bouquet" is shipped overnight via Federal Express simply by dialing 1-BOO-FLOWERS. 
Greg Hagglund, vice-president in charge of marketing for Contemporary Marketing Inc., which handles the BOO­FLOWERS advertising account, is very optimistic about the success of the fundraising campaign. 
"It's a little too early to say exactly how successful the overall effort will be," said Hagglund. "I can say that up to this point, we have had tremendous response." 
Lifting clinic goes on despite star's absence 
By SUSAN MULLEN Observer Staff 
The full house at Washington Hall was quickly reduced to about two-thirds capacity Monday morning after the an­nouncement that Arnold Schwarzeneg­ger would not be present because of a previous commitment. 
The star of "The Terminator" and "Conan the Barbarian" was to have 
hosted  the  weightlifting  clinic  and  
demonstration.  
Replacements  Dick  Sargent  and  

Lynn Swann drew enthusiasm from the crowd and more than compensated for Schwarzenegger's absence. Also, the crowd erupted in cheers as Louisiana Coach and body builder Paul Fletcher worked his bulging muscles by bench pressing over 400 pounds. Weightlift­ing Venue manager Gary Weil gave 
In the past year, McCann and his partner, Jim Poage, have overseen the operations of their Dallas-based com­pany and have fashioned it into the na­tion's only 24 hour coast-to-coast florist. 
While phoning BOO-FLOWERS, each customer is assisted by specially trained service representatives using a sophisticated, state-of-the-art telecom­munication system. Custo~r orders are electronically relayed to fulfillment centers or one of 6,000 member florists. Fresh flowers are then placed in patented moisture-retaining boxes and, · through special arrangements made with Federal Express, are delivered the next day, anywhere in the United States. 
safety tips for the sport and explained the benefit of weightlifting for athletes of any sport. He also explained what the different events within weightlifting entail, such as dead lifting and bench pressing. Weil emphasized the impor­tance of having spotters present whenever lifting to ensure safe muscle building. 
Three spotters were on stage at all times during the demonstration as were five security guards to maintain crowd control and assign seating. Also on hand were escorts and first aid assis­tants. 
Three Special Olympians from Ne­braska -Alan Kaufman, Curtis Lewel­len and Bill Bobbitt -were impressed with the clinic. "I was a little disap­pointed when I found out Schwarzeneg­ger wasn't coming, but I saw some good lifts anyway" said Lewellen. 
McCann and his company salute the people of the 1987 International Sum­mer Special Olympics Games. BOO­FLOWERS is looking forward to an ac­tive ·role in this year's Summer Games and those for years to come, and with added funding from promotions like the "Hooray Bouquet," Special Olympics can look forward to raising more much needed income. 
"The numbers are still being tallied on the orders," said McCann, "but the reponse to date has been overwhelm­ing. I want to express my appreciation on behalf of BOO-FLOWERS, my bro­ther, Kevin, and all the Special Olym­pians." 
R Tl mE POR HEROES 
The Official Theme Music of the 1987 Summer Special Olympics featuring 
\ 

Vietnam Veterans of Elkhart County Super Sounds World Records Record Connection Tracks Musicland Camelot Notre Dame Souvenir Stands Hall of Cards & Books 
Net proceeds go to the 1987 ISSOC, Inc. 
Logan Center ADEC Bookworm Kroger's Jamison Inn Morris Inn Budgeteer Howard Johnson's Marriott Ramada Inn 
Available On e12' Record ecassette Tape ecompact Disc 



The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 13 
Teamwork necessary in demanding sports 
By CATHY STACY played with one other member of his Observer Staff utah soccer team before his five day training camp for the Games. "He en­
A gymnast's courage to remount the joys working on a team. He has played beam after a misstep or the last swim­the same position during this game,''mer's determination to finish the 200m but it takes more time to work on freestyle -these are the marks of true stragedies and discover where each Olympians. athlete's talents lie, she said. 
For every athlete that has dreamed By watching from the sidelines of winning the gold, hours of practice during these hot afternoons, Nelson has have preceded the 1987 Games. Days observed some important factors in 
of strenuous training and reassuring team play.coaching have inspired these Olym­"They have to remember where to pians to strive for their personal best. be and back up each other. It is a team 
But exciting, fast-paced games like effort, but there is always an aggres­
soccer basketball, softball, and field sive player that will lead the others. hockey are even more demanding be­The coach is always saying, 'Remem­cause of a special element uncommon ber we have to work together as a to the others -the necessity of team­team.' " 
work. Some Olypians, however, have a dif­
"Not only do the athletes learn the ferent perspective on the difficulty -or various skills of field hockey, " wrote lack of -in training and performing as San Diego's Walter Jackson, "but they a group.learn how to interact and work with "It's really easier," said South others in a team situation." Dakota's softball coach Dean Gross, 
Every team sport being played at the with his team nodding and smiling in Games could be described in the same agreement. "It's faster," adds team wav. member Darin, "We all help each 
After Nebraska's basketball team other, and we get through faster be­defeated the Philippines yesterday, cause we back them up." A chorus of coach Jeannie Weis commented on their voices raise other advantages like "It's group efforts. "The team had to be tight more fun" and "We have a pretty good on dribbling and passing. Their team time. (My teammates) are powerful.''
(the Philipines) was very good and we The support and reaffirmation that had to really work our defense." All athletes can find in team sports, not to around the campus, bunched together mention the camaraderie that develops under cool shade trees or standing in among teammates, is a great reward formation on the grass, teams and for the extra demands, most Olympians coaches discuss stragedies and stress agree.
the message "Remember we're a The choice to participate in the 
team," or "Let's go for the gold -to­Games an to share
as individual orgether!" 

one's dream with a team is ultimately Perhaps the most demanding and left to the athlete himself. Whatever frustrating aspect of international that choice, the high level of play and team sports is the minimal amount of competition that has been exhibited time -averaging about five days -that during these first few days have tes­coaches have to train their athletes as tified to the dedication of the athletes 
a group. 
and left spectators with great expecta­Dorothea Nelson's son had onlv tions for the rest of the week. 
Team Ohio falls, looks for seven innings 
By JIM RILEY his "job is on the line now." lumbus (Ohio) and then came down but the coaches said it hasn't been too Observer Staff But in fact Hehmeyer will surely con-here." much of a problem. Volunteers "have tinue to coach these athletes, which he Each state uses a different system been all over us with today with towels 
Team Ohio took the field for its first has been doing now for more than eight for picking the players. Some pick ice and water," said assistant coach softball game yesterday in the blazing years. existing teams. Others choose individ-George Starr. heat of Stepan Field, but it came up "I love athletics, and I love the teach-ual players and form a sort of "all-star short in a 16-6, five inning game. ing part of it," Hehmeyer said. "You team.'' Coaches throughout Ohio sub­The volunteers have also lent a great 
Massachusetts piled up ten runs in get a great opportunity to teach be-mitted names, and the Team Ohio deal of support, Hehmeyer said. "That the second inning to take an 11-1lead. cause you start at the basics and build coaches travelled to the state tourna­really helps.'' Play was stopped three innings later up from there. ment to see other players before they Having to quit playing in the fifth in­because Massachusetts had a lead of "They are really receptive and a lot narrowed the field to 15. ning didn't bother the players so much at least 10 runs after five innings. of fun to work with," he added. Despite the fact that each player was because of the lopsided score; it both­
Team Ohio will play at least two more only able to bat two or three times be­ered them more because they had to games in the tournament. But it must Getting ready for the international cause of the shortened game, some still quit playing. As they packed up their win tomorrow in its 10:30 game with games has not been easy: there wasn't turned in good performances. Mark gear, Team Ohio player Victor Mul­District of Columbia to remain in con­much time to prepartl. "Last Wednes­Hoelscher had three hits, and Ed linax looked up at his coach and said, tention for a medal, causing team day was our first day together," he McMillan had a good day in the field. "Let's try to play seven innings tomor­manager Tom Hehmeyer to joke that said. "We practiced for two days in Co-The heat, of course, has been intense, row.'' 
Louisiana, California coast in volleyball 
to Delaware, 1-15, 15-9, 7-15.
By JUDY MOLNAR 
In Division V play, California is still 
Observer Staff 
undefeated with three victories. Mon­
-.. 

Volleyball action continued Monday day morning California defeated at the Angela Athletic Facility with 38 Colorado in three games, 15-4, 6·15, 15­scheduled matches. 10. 
"My goal is to keep the athletes going Rhode Island had some problems in and play a lot of matches, to keep the its first two matches against Colorado, coaches happy and the volunteers in­2-15, 7-15 and against California; 3-15, volved," said Art Lambert, venue 4-15. But Rhode Island rebounded to manager for volleyball. "Everything defeat Montana, 15-6, 15-12. else is just window dressing." 
In Division IV action, Florida beat During division V, group G, unde­Barbados, 15-4, 15-4. feated Arizona played a great match Louisiana defeated Florida in two against Trinadad winning, 15-4, 15-6. games, 15-7, 16-14. But Florida came New Jersey has still had problems get­back to edge Delaware in three games, ting on the winning losing 10-15, 15-1,5­15-8, 7-15, 15-10. 15 to Tennessee. Followed by a lose to
i "" -
Louisana, with a total of three vic­Arizona 1-15, 5-15. 
"' ..o·-.:..~:: '"ou#il\<'~ _,.....,,,
, ............... ,.._ 
tories, defeated Barbados, 15-2, 15-0. Volleyball competition continues 
Kentucky has played some up and Tuesday before the teams are re­down matches, defeating Barbados in divisioned for the bracket rounds on three games, 15-7, 11-15, 15-8, but losing Wednesday. 

The newly constructed Rolfs Aquatic Center, located in the Joyce ACC, provides swimmers with a first-rate Olympic sized pool. The simple sight of swimmers in cool, refreshing water seems to have attracted many spectators during these hot days. The Observer/Jim Carroll 
~-~~:~~v:­
ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987-page 14 
Special Olympics helps Indians progress 
By PRATIBHA TRIPATHI V.K. Mankotia, the consul and the works with the mentally handicapped else. It's a tremendous feeling to see Observer Staff head of chancery from the Consulate children from her home. She has found the joy." 
General of India in Chicago, said India the work she has done informative. An Indian legend has it that a young has a "separate ministry for children "(The parents) didn't know their Nigel Pinto is one of four childrenprince, named Dhruv, was deprived the and mentally retarded. Our goal is to 
children can throw a ball," Desouza who will be highlighted by ABC, accor­affection of his parents. uplift the status of the mentally dis­said. 
ding to Desouza. She said Pinto is aHe was granted the most prestigious abled ..." well-behaved and admirable child.
niche in the sky because of his prayers "Unfortunately, sports is not a top "Special Olympics is bringing them out 
and determination to perfect himself. Mankotia added that even greater ef­priority in India. (Indians) think voca­and giving them much confidence." 
As the polar star, Dhruv brightly il­forts are being. undertaken privately. tion and academics are much more im­luminates the paths of those who look Mentally handicapped children par­portant," explained Desouza. There are 16 athletes and six volun­up for guidance. ticipate in athletics through their teers in the delegation. The athletes will 
Like Dhruv, the Special Olympians school. According to Desouza, over Desouza said the children are more compete in track and field and swim­from India will get the opportunity to 1,500 are enrolled in 20 schools for men­avid sports fans. "As much as I like ming.shiner tally handicapped in Bombay. The pro­running and jumping, they like running 
Until recently, the mentally handi­gram is gaining acceptance and and jumping. I love sports and I know The Indian Special Olympians cap­capped in India were either closeted spreading to the remote parts of the that children love sports." tured gold, silver and bronze awards away or ignored. country, where 35 percent of the con­on the first day of the VII Summer Spe­
"(The parents) leave them with the stituents were under the poverty level "Special Olympics is doing a world cial Olympics competition. servants and give them everything but five years ago. of good," she added. "(The athletes) As they compete, they will shine don't give them any time," said A shaping force for the programs for are getting tremendous satisfaction by brightly and enlighten many minds in Hyacinth Desouza, the director of Spe­the mentally retarded in India, Desouza taking part and by being like everyone their country. 
... cial Olympics games in India . Desouza cites an athlete, Murtza Ladiwalla, as an example of a child who 
Kosch handles Hardee's involvement
is given all the comforts of life, but is deprived attention. A talented painter, 
By KEVIN BECKER teers, and the feeding of 6000 people According to Kosch, the value ofLadiwalla's creation is displayed at the Observer Staff before last night's opening ceremonies. working for Special Olympics for allart exhibition at the EXPO Center. 
According to Kosch, the mobile unit involved greatly outweighs the amount New government-funded organiza­Steve Kosch is the first to admit that has been doing 150 to 200 percent of the of work put into the effort. 
tions, support groups formed by the 
he has been out in the sun too long. projected volume of business for the
parents, and trained professionals are Since Kosch is one of the people re­operation and may be the company's "We're all getting involved together devising programs to assist mentally sponsible for Hardee's involvement in busiest restaurant in the chain this and forming some close bonds. Ithandicapped. 
the 1987 International Summer Special week, with predicted sales of over makes somebody feel good to do some­In a speech to South Bend and the Olympics Games, it is not hard too un­55,000 Quarter-Pound Cheeseburgers thing like this," he said.
neighboring Indian community, P. 
derstand why. and 70,000 20-oz. Cokes. All proceeds
Kaul, the Indian ambassador, said spe­
"I've been assigned solely to this from the unit go to support Special
cial institutions created by government project since the middle of May," said Olympics.
and individuals are being established. 
Kosch, Hardee's operation projectThese include programs to educate so­manager.
ciety about the needs of mentally hand­Proceeds from Hardee's involvement icapped people. In his position, Kosch has been re­in the Games, however, are not just sponsible for, among other things, the measured in terms of cash. The corpo­"They are in a disadvantage of no setup of the Hardee's mobile unit sta­ration has employees from a variety of fault of their own," said Kaul. "It is a tioned outside of the Joyce Athletic and states working here and has developed great effort done by these people who Convocation Center, the care of the 120 a strong bond of unity between the 
are handicapped trying to be self­staff members that will be manning the franchises and the corporation as a reliant. Effort is being made. Private unit throughout the week, the prepara­result of the cooperation on the Special initiative is done." tion of 500 box lunches daily for volun-Olympics project. 



We are pleased to welcome all 
the 1987 International Special 
Olympians to our home town. 
-
Lo'i Dung de chao 
Member FDIC 

The Observer ISSOG Issue Tuesday, August 4, 1987 -page 15 

The Observer/Angie Lacopo 

One Columbian athlete shares his hopes for victory with fellow Olympians. The high spirits at these Games have 
Today's Issue was produced by the following: Paul Babka Kevin Becker Marilyn Benchik Ann Biddlecom Jim Carroll Mindy Chapleau Fred Dobie Chris Donnelly Pete Gagen Tim Healy Valerie Lamanna Judy Molnar Susan Mullen Mike Murdock Liz Panzica Suzanne Poch Sean Reardon Jim Riley Andrea Rogers Matt Sitzer Cathy Stacy Patti Tripathi Bob Tyler Joann Whitfield Joan Wrappe Kim Yuratovac Jim Ryan Dr. Parnell-tranalator  
Today's Weather The heat might finally succumb to cooler temperatures as there is a a 60 percent chance of thunderstorms Tues­day morning with highs in the low 80s. Clearing Tuesday night with lows near 60. Mostly sunny Wednesday with highs near 80.  

brought out the best in these champions. 

Buy One PIZZA Get One FREE! 

Buy any size Original Round Pizza at regular price and get the identical pizza FREE with this coupon. 
1349 Portage Ave  510 W. McKinlev  
..>J-3200  259-0021  
462b Western Ave.  2047 E. Ireland  
234-4192  .291-8260  

~~~®~ ~When you make pizza this good, one just isn't enough:" 
<>1986 Utile Caesar Enterprises, Inc. 

~--. VAI.UAIU COUI'ON ·--~--· VAI.UAII.£ COUPON • --..
I S0-9 • I S0-8 I 
1Two 14" PizzasiTwo 12" Pizzasl
I $1 o..~~l $7 ..?.~I 
I Large Size Pizzas I Medium Size Pizzas~I with Cheese & J with Cheese & ! 2 Items 2 Items
1 1 
I Extra items and extra cheese I Extra items and extra cheeseI available at additional cost. available at additional cost.I Valid with coupon at participat-1 Valid with coupon at participat-11ing Little Caesars. One coupon1 ing Little Caesars. One coupon1 I per customer. Carry Out Only. I per customer. Carry Out Only. I Expires: 8-22-87 I Expires: 8-22-87 I 
1(1l)~~.®~~l 
·--.VAI.UAIU COUPON ___.._-. VAI.UAII.£ COUPON ·-_ .. 

• 
Stuffed Shrimp 

• 
Stuffed Redfish 


• 
Shrimp Creole $8.95 

• 
Swordfish Your choice Includes our Salad Buffet and any one of our sides. Served Mon.-Sat. from 5 PM. Sun. from 4 PM. Reservations Accepted 300 E. Colfax 234-4477 Free Appetize~s in .Lounge Mon.-Fr1. -4.30-6.30 P.M. 


Don't forget ... Brunch Plus served Sun. 11 A.M. It> 2 P.M. 
.> 

~~--~----~---------­

INFO-WINDOW FACILITA LA COMMUNICACION 
Por Mike Murdock Periodista del Observador 

Filas inacabables y gran multitudes de gente 
son parte de cada evento publico. Entre las 
filas mas largas son las que forman detras de 
las computadoras "Info-Window" (ventana de 
informacion). 

Un proyecto unido entre las compaiiias ffiM 
y Bendix, las Info-Windows responden a la 
mayorla de preguntas. Ayudan a los 
espectadores encontrar sus eventos favoritos 
y competencias; ayudan a los turistas con 
descripciones y mapas de la ciudad de Soth 
Bend y la Universidad de Notre Dame; y 
ayudan a los extranjeros a comunicarse entre 
si con tracucciones de saludos y frases 
comunes. 

La mayoria de los visitantes concluyen que 
estas computadoras son de gran ayuda. "jEsto 
es fantastico! Nosotros deberiamos tener algo 
parecido," dijo Raadbin Zeid, presidente de 
los programas para los invlilidos en Jordania. 
El pudo localizar a todos sus atletas usando el 
sistema. 

La funcion mas popular se llama"paises;" la 
cual da una lista de todas los participantes de 
los 72 paises. Les athletas buscan datos 
personales o de sus amigos de otros equipos 
e eventos. 

El equipo espafiol busco en la lista de 
athletas italianos y franceses cuales de sus 
amigos vinieron a las Olimpiadas este aiio. 
Shaun Wright encontro a su hermano, un 
miembro del equipo del estado de Oregon. 
"Son tan faciles de usar, explico Shaun. 
"Solamente tienes que tocar los dibujos y 
hace lo que tu quieres." 

Las computadoras fueron disefiadas para ser 

LOS JUEGOS INTERNACIONALES HAN UNIDO ATHLETAS DE TODO EL MUNDO. SUS AMBICIONES Y DEDICACION PARA RACER LO MEJOR POSIBLE HA SIDO INSPIRACION PARA TODOS LOS DEMAS. CUANDO LA GENTE ADVANZA CON TAL ESPIRITU, NOS ENCONTRAMOS UN PASO MAS CERCANO A LA UNION DEL MUNDO. 
aprendio como escribir el estado de "Oregon" en espaiiol. Pero para otros, las traducciones en espaiiol y frances han sido necesarias para entender informaciones. 
La comp. ffiM esta involucrada en calcular 
muy facil de usar, con la intencion de que el los resultados de todas la competencias. Para maximo numero de personas las usen. controlar tanta informacion, Compu Net dono Hay catorce "Information-Windows" el software mientras que IBM dono las localizados en Stepan Center, el ACC, en el maquinas y los empleados para tabular los Pueblo OHmpico, y en el CCE. IBM resultados. Las computadoras estan proporciono las terminales y Bendix organizo localizados en los sitios de las competencias las pantallas visuales. de athletismo, de bolos, de deportes 
El trabajo fue tres veces mas diffcil de lo que acuaticos, y de gimnasia, y en el CEE. "Una pudiera haber sido porque toda la informacion vez que los eventos comienzan, cada centro es esta acompaiiada con explicaciones en ingles, autonomo para que los resultados sean dados frances y espaiiol. Para algunos, los idiomas tan rapido como sean posible," explico Dave no han sido mas que intersantes. Shaun Kalling de Compu Net. 
DEPORTES ECUESTRES LLEGAN A SMC 
el campo deportivo dan al Iugar un verdadero
Por Pete Gegen 

ambiente ecuestre. Desde luego como
Periodista del Observador 

coordinadora voluntaria Susan Mueller El campo noreste de la Universidad de Saint enfatiza que "obtener este ambiente ecuestre Mary's ha tornado un aspecto diferente gracias' no fue tarea facil.' "Fue muy diffcil," ella dice. 
a los eventos ecuestres, uno de cinco deportes de demostracion en esta edicion de las Olimpiadas Especiales internacionales de verano. 
·"' Una gran tienda de campafia cubre cuadras provisionales en una cuarta parte del campo. El resto del espacio ha sido convertido en tres campos deportivos donde varios eventos ecuestres se Bevan a efecto. Los jinetes llevando su equipo y la empalizada que rodea "El sabado pasado el terreno estaba muy duro y trajeron un grupo de trbajadores que pusieron 75 pastes de madera en la tierra. Eso nada mas tomo12 horas. Un grupo de jovenes de empleo de verano se ocupo de pintar la empalizada de blanco. Eso hubiera completado los preparativos del campo deportivo pero un pequefio problema mantuvo a los los voluntarios oc~pados. "Pequeijs ardillas exca\'aban la tierra dejando huecos" 
Con el sistema complicado que se usa durante los Juegos, hay mucha probabilidad de que problemas ocurren, pero Compu Net hizo muchas pruebas usando esto programas en 15 competencias y en las Olimpiadas Especiales de Indiana. 
Tal vez podrimos tabular los resultados de una competencia regional a mano, pero un evento de este tamaiio seria una pesadilla sin computadoras," segun Mark Flora, un voluntario des IBM encargado de los Servicios para la media. 
"Lo bueno de estas programas es que podemos dar muchas estadlsticas para los competidores, sus familias, y los colegios cuando las Olimpiadas acaben y todos regresen a su hogar," dijo Flora. 
SERVICIO 
AUMENTA LA COMMUNICACION 
Por Kevin Becker Periodista del Observador 
Los Kennedy y los personajes se hacen a un lado. Las personas que forman el grupo de voluntarios del comite de servicios de idiomas extranjeros para mas de 2000 personas en las Olimpiadas Internacionales Especiales de Verano de 1987 puede que sean las mas importantes en los Juegos. 
Setenta y dos palses estan contribuyendo al sabor de las Olimpiadas lnternacionales Especiales de Verano y con ese sabor viene la necesidad de comunicarse. 
Dijo Sarah Schroeder del Centro de Scrvicios de ldiomas: "Constantemente estamos recibiendo llamadas telef6nicas de gente en los eventos que dicen "Oh! Dios mlo, le necesitamos ahara mismo!" 
De acuerdo a Schroeder, 85-90 por cicnto de los entrenadores de los palses de no-habla inglesa no hablan inghSs y solamente el 50 por ciento de las delegaciones son proficientes en el idioma. A causa de estc gran m1mero de gente que no se pueden comunicar en ingles, el centro ha tenido un nUm.ero de servicios que proveen a los Jucgos. De acuerdo a Schroeder, el comite encontr6 anfitriones para "alojarse" con cada pais que viene a los Juegos, ha revisado 1300 solicitudes para traductores y ha provisto un servicio para corregir fallas o problemas a 
traves del curso de las actividades. 
Dijo Schroeder, "Estainos tratando de scr tan flexibles como sea posible y llegar a resolver un problema asi podemos ayudar lo mejor que podamos." ~ El grupo de personas que corrigan fallas o problemas para aquellos que no puedan comunicarse en ingles se Haman "grupo m6vil" y la mayorla esta compuesta de personas del mismo origen 6 que hablan el idioma de un pals extranjero. Los miembros de este grupo se identifican facilmente por una banda colgada alrededor de su pecho con el idioma en lo cual son fluldos y que se muestra en ambos ingles y el otro idioma. 
De acuerdo a Schroeder, si alguicn necesita 
ayuda para comunicarse, esta persona debera 
buscar a un miembro delo''grupo m6vil" o 
tratar de hacer contacto con el Centro de 
Idiomas Extranjeros en el CCE. 

dice Mueller. "Tratamos de llenar los huecos con tierra pero al dfa siguiente los huecos volvlan a aparecer. Asf que llamamos a la Sociedad Protectora de Animales y ellos recomendaron poner bolas de naftalina en los huecos antes de volverlos a cubrir. Los trabahadores voluntarios tambien usaron pintura fluorescente para pintar los huecos y asf advertir a los jinetes" 
El establo provisional fue alquilado de la companfa Cattleman's Leasing Co. de Missouri. Le falta mucho para llegar a ser un verdadero establo pero el producto de la Cattleman tenia ciertas medidas de seguridad que otras no tenfan. 
"Es extremadamente segura porque las cuadras estan hechas completamente de lona y es muy rfgida y firme," dice Mueller. "Otras estan hechas de tablas de madera y los caballos pueden meter las patas por entre la tab las y torcerselas." 
La seguridad es la preocupaci6n principal de este evento, especialmente la seguridad de los jinetes. Los caballos fueron cuidadosamente seleccionados de fincas del norte de Indiana y del sur de Michigan. Del grupo de 37 caballos puestos a prueba el viernes, dos tuvieron que ser devueltos porque se prestaban para jinetes mas avanzados. 




