.-------------------------------------------­

Cool again
/ACCENT:TestyournewsiQ 
Partly sunny and cool Monday 
with the high around 50. Clear 
and cold Monday night with the 
low in the lower 30s.

IVIEWPOINT: The Peace Corps experience 
---------·-----~-----­

VOL. XXI, NO. 35 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1987 
. 

Plane crashes, 49 people die 
Associated Press 
RANGOON, Burma -A Burma Airways plane caught fire and crashed about 20 miles short of a popular tourist town in central Burma Sunday, kil­ling all 49 people aboard, in­cluding 14 Americans, the gov­ernment said. 
The official News Agency of Burma said 36 foreigners, nine Burmese passengers and four crewmen were aboard. 
It was  the airline's second  
disaster  in  less  than  four  
months.  

The agency said twin­turboprop Fokker Friendship 27 "caught fire in midair" and crashed southeast of its des­tination of Pagan, a town whose ancient Buddhist temples at­tract many foreign tourists. 
The brief announcement did not give the cause of the crash. 
The agency said besides the Americans, seven Swiss citizens, five Britons, four Australians, three West Ger­mans, two French citizens and one Thai died. 
The crash came one day after diplomatic sources reported in­creased police protection of the 
U.S. embassy in Rangoon be­cause of reports that an an anti­American terrorist group had entered Burma. 
Officials would not speculate on possible links between crash and terrorists, and no further information was available on the alleged arrival of terror­ists. 
Government sources, who 
see CRASH, page 4 

Iranian missiles bombard Baghdad 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iraq resumed its aerial blitz of Iranian oil targets Sunday, severely damaging a Liberian­flagged supertanker. Two crewmen were reported killed and four others missing in the attack. 
An Iranian surface-to­surface missile exploded in Baghdad, the Iraqi capital, as Iran retaliated for the attack on tankers. 
Two Exocet missiles from Iraqi jets crashed into the en­gine room of the 239,435-ton Rova, setting the ship ablaze, according to gulf -based ship­ping sources. 
It was one of three raids an­nounced by Iraq against tankers along the Iranian coast since Saturday morning. 
Shipping sources identified one of the three targets as the Merlin, a 215,925-ton Cypriot­flag tanker under charter to Iran. An Exocet missile crashed into the ship but did not explode and damage was minor, they said. The unex­ploded missile was still aboard. 
The identity of the third ship was not known, the sources said. 
Both Baghdad and Tehran reported that a long-range Iranian missile was fired into the Iraqi capital overnight but disagreed where it hit. Iran claimed the missile struck a major military garrison, while Iraq said it landed in a residen­tial area, killing "numerous" civilians. No figures were given. 
The attack on Baghdad was the first since two of the projec­tiles, believed to be Soviet­designed Scud-Bs, hit the city of 4 million last Monday. 

By MARY CASSIDY News Staff 
To "prepare women to play key roles in solving major problems facing the human population" will be the pur­pose of a newly renovated science building, said Saint Mary's College President William Hickey at the build­ing's dedication Saturday. 
After a $6.5 million expan­sion project, the building was dedicated before faculty, guests, and alumnae dressed in academic attire. 
As part of the ceremony, Dr. Mary Lowe Good, presi­dent of the American Chemi­cal Society, was awarded a Doctorate of Science. Accepting the degree, Good, also president of an engineer­ing division of Allied Signal, Inc., said it is important that individuals pursue science oriented careers since fewer are being attracted to the field. Our economic future is dependent on the new technol­ogy that future scientists will develop, she added. 
According to Good, women who attend women's colleges are more likely to pursue a science major. ''Achievement stems in part from prepara­tion," she said. 
Also speaking at the cere­mony, Monica Creamer, a 1979 Saint Mary's College graduate and manager of the American Chemical Society Manuscript office, said wo­men must overcome many ob­stacles in order to acheive success in a science career. If a woman works hard enough, she can attain high status, she added. 

Bork battle marks low point of White House clout 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The likely rejection of Robert Bork as President Reagan's nominee for the Supreme Court marks the-tow ebb in Reagan's worst year yet on Capitol Hill, and lawmakers say the president has responded to defeats by growing even more confronta­tional. 
The White House apparently has concluded that, having lost control of the Senate in the 1986 elections, it is better to make a stand on principles and go down in martyrdom than to seek compromise from a weakened position. 
"They are following a scorched-earth policy," said Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. "Veto, threaten veto, vote no, filibuster, stall, delay. It's a no-win policy." 
The year has yielded a string of losses for the administra­tion, growing ever more visible. The year began badly when Reagan vetoed two major spending measures, the clean water bill and a highway au­thorization act. Both vetoes were overridden. 
Later, Reagan sought to make budget reform a top domestic policy priority. But while campaigning for reform, congressional Republicans complained, the president was sitting out the real budget fight going on in Congress. 

The result was that Reagan was forced to sign a renewal of the Gramm-Rudman deficit­reduction law last month in which he had little say. 
Added to those failures has been the Iran-Contra hearings, disputes over more aid to the Contras and the sale of Maverick missiles to Saudi Arabia, and the Bork nomina­tion, which some Republicans said wasn't pushed hard enough. 
"I don't think they used the tools of the trade in a way to be successful," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa. "If they had done half as much as the left did, he would have been approved." 
But more than a White House 
failure, the Bork vote il­
lustrates a new partisanship on 
a Capitol Hill where both 
houses are under Democratic control, said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. 
"There is a desire to defeat the president on everything up here," he said. "I think they (at the White House) are being conciliatory with Congress. But there are some things you just have to stand up and fight on." 
Other Republicans, however, say Reagan has consciously chosen not to cooperate, which may backfire on those who, un­like the president, have to run for re-election next year. 

--~-----------------­
r page 2 
In Brief 
Dozens of police, firefighters, reporters and photographers mobilized when a police officer in Brooklyn reported by radio he had found a "possible nuclear war­head in a privately owned truck." Within minutes a crowd of emergency workers and reporters surrounded the truck in the Flatbush section. Police found two sealed metal, lead-lined containers about the size of three-gallon drums, each holding about 5 grams of radioactive iridium 192, a substance used to treat cancer patients. According to police, someone stole the truck and abandoned it in front of a store with its motor running. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Junior dogbook pictures for the Class of 1989 will be taken today, Tuesday, and Wednesday from 6 to 10 p.m. in 307 LaFortune Student Center. Students should bring a brief quote they wish to appear under their name in the book. Orders for books will also be taken at this time. ­
The Observer 

Senior trip members are reminded that there are only three forms of necessary identification acceptable. These are either a sealed birth certificate from the country of your birth, a passport, or a voter's registration card. You must have one of these three forms. -The Observer 
Chess Club exhibition: Professor Sam Shapiro of the History Department welcomes up to 20 challengers at once in a simultaneous exhibition chess match tonight from 8 to 10:30 in the Chicago Room on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. All interested in playing and signing up for the chess club are urged to stop by. -The Observer 
The Student Advisory Council of the University Counseling Center will meet at 6:30p.m. in the infirmary's third floor lounge. Anyone with questions or comments regarding the center's programs, policies, etc... should attend the meeting. For more information, call Jane at 3802. -The Observer 
An informational meeting for all interested in the 1988 London and Rome summer programs will be held tonight at 7 in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva at Saint Mary's. For more information, call Professor Black at 284-4460. -The Observer 
An AIESEC meeting will be held tonight at 7 in 222 Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. All members and all those interested in international business should attend. -The Observer 
A lecture on retailing by Professor Abraham will take place at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. This event, spon­sored by the marketing club, is open to all students of all majors. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted in writing at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center unti12 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus­wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish. The Observer will attempt to print all submitted Of Interests, but because of space limitations, there is no guarantee that they will all be run. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................. Lisa Tugman Design Assistant ............... Joe Zadrozny Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Buc .......................................... Daniel Cahill News Editor ........................ Chris Julka Copy Editor .................. Rachael Jarosh Sports Copy Editor ........... Brian O'Gara Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Brian Conway Viewpoint Layout... . ... Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ...... Kathy Scarbeck Accent Layout .. Katy Kronenberg Typists.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenn Conlon ND Day Editor ............. Kathy McKee ............................................. Greg Lucas SMC Day Editor.. . . ...... Karin Rader Photographer ........................ Zoltan Ury 
~ a..ner (USPS S99 2-<4000) is publish...:! Monday through Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods.~ OI!Mner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile OI!Mner, P.0. Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
~ Olllener is a member of ~ Aaodaled p,..,.., All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, October 12, 1987 
Reagan thick-headed in Nicaragua policy 
There is a stubborn obstinancy to Ronald Reagan that makes one wonder how he ever made it as a politician. 
It is a foolish consistency that guides his mind and makes him continue policies no matter how stupid, how short-sighted, how expensive, how illegal, or even how unpopular. Keen political advice from his own party and the strongest urgings of his wife and close advisors are not enough to keep him from jumping onto his horse backwards. 
One such obstinancy that haunts the inner workings of his mind concerns the protection of what he considers America's "backyard." Reagan's utter refusal to negociate with the Sandinista government, especially after the recent peace accords among Central American nations, reflects a brutish stubborness to stick to his guns. 
In Reagan's mind, Daniel Ortega is and will always remain the puppet dictator of the Evil Empire. For this reason the Central American peace plan that looks so promising to everyone else is "fatally flawed," according to our Pres­ident. For him, a negotiated peace that has the potential of leaving the Ortega regime in power is simply unacceptable. Either the Sandinistas surrender or the contras fight on. 
Once upon a time Reagan's goal of making the Sandinistas cry "uncle" enjoyed quite a lot of popularity in this country and even moderate support abroad. But times have changed and people have grown tired of a plan that is costly, ill-defined, and yields no positive results. 
The new interest shown by Central American governments in finding a diplomatic end to their troubles apparently means nothing to an ad­ministration that prefers to solve problems with covert operations and military might. Despite the uproar created by the Iran-Contra scandal this summer, Reagan has by no means aban­doned a policy which was shown to be disor­ganized and riddled with profiteering and cor­ruption. In fact, he wants just the opposite, namely to expand the contra program to the tune of a whopping 270 million dollars. 
The decision was made several years ago to play "hardball" with what was taken to be the Marxist forces of Nicaragua. And now it is a line from which Reagan obstinately will not retreat. Major concessions to opposition parties in Nicaragua, such as lifting the 15 month cen­sorship of the newspaper La Prensa or naming outspoken critics of the Sandinista party to a national reconciliation commission, are written off by Reagan as "phony" democritization. 
In a speech to the Organization of American States last week Reagan pledged to continue support of the contras until "full democritiza­
Jim 

Carroll 
" 
,,~

Photo Editor 

tion" is established. His words were "to work, strive and struggle as long as there is breath in this body." 
The loyalty towards the troops is perhaps ad­mirable from a certain perspective, but what Reagan blindly fails to perceive is the harsh criticism his boys have raised from all quar­ters. There was a time when dedication to these "freedom fighters" could be passed off as a high patriotic calling. But the hour of Ollie North is clearly gone. 
No one serious believes that the Contras are the good guys anymore. Hour after hour of con­gressional testimony clearly showed that these bands of rebels lacked any financial responsi­bility, military discipline, organizational hierarchy or noble accomplishments. The only press coverage they legitimately get concerns the latest allegations of brutality and plunder. And yet Reagan persists in their support and pleads for an unprecedented increase in fun­ding. 
The real shame in Reagan's stubborn insis­tence in unworkable policies is that it destroys the chances of better ideas to take hold. In the words of House Speaker Jim Wright, the current Central American policy of the Reagan team aims to "torpedo the peace process." Where there is a chance for a major foreign policy success Reagan stubbornly will insist on fail­ure. 

~---~----~ -----~-~-------...--------, 
Monday, October 12, 1987 The Observer 
Homosexuals rally at Capitol 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Thousands of homosexual activists, led by AIDS victims in wheelchairs and bearing signs carrying messages like, "Thank God I'm Gay," marched Sunday to demand protection from dis­crimination and more federal money for AIDS research and treatment. 
U.S. park Police said about 50,000 people had gathered by 1 p.m. for the march past the White House and rally near the Capitol. The crowd, carrying balloons and banners and wearing buttons and T -shirts, stretched along the mall for more than a dozen blocks. 
"Here we are from Califor­nia, Alabama, Florida, Arizona, Alaska, Seattle and Delaware -east, west, north and south -in numbers too large to ever be denied again," said Eleanor Smeal, former president of the National Or­ganization for Women. 
She told the crowd they num­bered 500,000 and yelled, "Look at you!" 
"Feel the political power of the moment. Spread love and fight hate," she said. 
She also said, "We have stopped Bork,'' referring to federal Judge Robert Bork. whose nomination to the U.S. supreme Court appears headed for certain defeat in the Senate. Marchers chanted anti-Bork slogans. 
Under skies threatening rain, the rally began with music and a poignant state­ment from Dan Bradley, a White House aide in the Carter administration, who is suffer­ing from acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
Bradley said that what he was most proud of was that "after a lifetime of struggle (and) fear . . . I had the courage (in 1982) to say, loud and clear, 'I'm gay and I'm proud. I'm gay and I'm proud."' 
Activists say the AIDS crisis, which has hit the homosexual community in the United States especially hard, has spurred an increase in violence and dis­crimination against the na­tion's lesbians and homosexual men, who they estimate num­ber 25 million. 
Organizers were hoping to use the march and rally Sunday and a planned non-violent pr-otest in front of the Supreme Court building on Tuesday to dramatize their calls for more federal assistance. 
"The Reagan administration is allowing millions to die," said one of the marchers, Jim Merriam, an AIDS victim from Miami. Its "response has been an ineffective, insincere com­mission on AIDS." 
Suzanne Phillips of Brook­
lyn, N.Y., a medical student who works with AIDS victims, carried a bumper sticker reading "Fight AIDS, not people with AIDS." 
"I can't do anything for the patients but watch them die. I can't stand it anymore," she said, calling on the Food and Drug Administration to speed the process of approving new drug treatments for AIDS. 
Activists began their day Sunday at sunrise on the mall, with the unfurling of a 7,000­pound quilt bearing the names, personal effects and, in some cases, the ashes of victims of AIDS. 
The quilt bears 1,920 panels made by companions or rela­tives of people who have died from the disease. 
,.. 
I; t~ ~ * > ].. .. ~ ; ;1. 
The Observei>Zoltan Ury

Big strides 
Tasha Dachos (right) and Sandy Henson participate In the CROP walk Saturday. The walk Is part of a nation wide stride to help feed 
the poor of the world. 
Callyour mummy.  You remember. She was always there when you were frightened. And if you got hurt, she was standing by with ban­dages. Wouldn't it feel good to talk to your mother again right now? Calling over AT&T Long Distance Service probably costs less than you think, too. And if you have any questions about AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre­sentative is always standing hy to talk to you.]ust call 1 800 222-0300. Sure, your schoolwork and your friends keep you husy. But call home and find out what she's wrapped up in. -AT&T The right choice.  

Radical plan unveiled for Poland 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland -Prime Minister Zbigniew Messner un­veiled a radical economic reform program Saturday that stresses lifting barriers to ini­tiative, slashing bureaucratic power and letting market forces influence prices and wages. 
The program amounts to a rejection of many of the eco­nomic mechanisms built up over the 42-year history of the Polish communist state, and is line with the restructuring taking place in the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Messner said the reforms also should persuade Western lenders to quickly restore trade credits to Poland. Credits dried up after the 1981 martial law crackdown on the Solidarity in­dependent trade union move­ment. 
In an unprecedented move, the Parliament called for a nationwide referendum Nov. 29 to let the public itself deter­mine the "degree and rate" of the reform. 
Addressing the Sejm, or par­liament, as Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski looked on, Messner said the reform pack­age will spur socialist enter­prise on the principle that "everything which is not prohibited is permitted." 
He complained of a lack of vitality in Poland's economy, saying, "In extreme cases, the people pretend to be working and the enterprise pretends to pay them." 
He said one goal of the 
reform is to activate the "im­
mense latent capacity" of the 
Polish people. 
The Sejm called a session Oct.23-24, when it are expected to ratify the package. Messner said the reforms would be im­plemented in 1988-90. 
The reform would make it 
much easier for individuals or 
enterprises to start new busi­
nesses or engage in foreign 
trade. 

~ --~-~----------~ 
The Observer Monday, October 12, 1987 
Security Beat 
Saturday, October 10 6:07 p.m. An off-campus student reported that she lost her gold locket 
11: 10 a.m. A Stanford Hall resident and chain somewhere between the reported that sometime between Library and Haggar Hall. The items Friday at 11:30 p.m. and Saturday are valued at $300. at 2:00 a.m. someone broke into his 6:40p.m. A Cavanaugh resident re­car while it was parked in the D2 ported that he lost his gold chain and student lot. A cassette player and cross somewhere between equalizer were stolen. Damage is es­Cavanaugh and Stepan Chemistry timated at $260. Hall. The chain and cross are worth 
$120.

1:35 p.m. An off-campus student reported that her keys were lost somewhere between the C1 parking Sunday, October 11 lot and LaFortune Hall. The keys are valued at $3. 2:15 a.m. Two graduate students 
were cited for indecent exposure out­

2:20 p.m. A Grace Hall resident side of the Alumni-Senior Club. Both reported that sometime between student's J.D.'s were confiscated. Friday at 6:00p.m. and Saturday at 2:15p.m. A Notre Dame employee 2:00a.m. $80 in cash was taken from found an Amtrack ticket on the path his desk drawer. of St. Joseph's Lake. 
Three on three The Observei7Zoltan Ury ~~~~~~ Shawn Carlow and fellow juggling clubmates on the fleldhouse mall practice their techniques. 
S\)~d~0G ND·SMC 
China bans press from Tibet ~ STUDENTS 
15th Annual Program

Associated Press cer said at least 50 foreign Tuesday in which about 100 tourists were seen among monks marched. 
May 18-June 17 Rome
CHENGDU, China· Chinese rioters attacking a police sta­The Xinhua report, moni­officials barred foreign tion Oct. 1, throwing stones at tored in Tokyo, said the riots Travel in Ireland, June 12-July 11 reporters from entering Tibet police and inciting violence 
were instigated by Tibet's Scotland, and France Travel in France,
Saturday. and the official among the protesters. exiled spiritual leader, the 
media quoted a police official The unidentified officer said Dalai Lama, and that many of Germany, and Switzerland as saying foreign tourists were participation in the riots by the the rioters were former among the leading rioters in tourists is evidence of their ul­prisoners. Informational Meeting recent pro-independence terior motives, Xinhua said. 
Meeting Oct 12 , 7 pm.
demonstrations. The protests began Sept. 27 It quoted a deputy secretary 
Saturday's order follows the with a march by about two of the Tibet Autonomous Carroll Hall, SMC Come visit with last years studentsexpulsion of 14 Western jour­
dozen Buddhist monks. On Oct. Regional Committee, Raidi, as Courses offered in and teachers over refreshments and 
nalists who covered the 1, at least 2,000 people led by saying the government would ART, BIOLOGY, pizza.protests in Lhasa, the Tibetan monks clashed with police and not hesitate to severely punish HISTORY, BUEC, for more info, contact capital, in which at least 16 at least 14 people were killed. those carrying out separatist AND SOCIOLOGY. Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 
people died. Monks in Lhasa said two col­
activities. ~.........-..-..-..-.-..-~...........-...-..-.---.----
Xinhua News Agency re­leagues died after being beaten ported that a local police offi-by police in a third riot last 
_.~..._....._..,_....._....._...,_....._...._....._..,_..~~.._..~..-.-..-.c..-.c..-.....-..--..-....-....-....-.--,-., 
CLUB TUESDAY CLUB TUESDAY CLUB TUESDAY

Personals 
Featunng professional continued from page 12 Bnan Huskey Smger, QUitanst, comedian RIDE needed to O'HARE lrl. 11V18 Th1s Tuesday, Oct. 13
r 
pleeM cell Kevin x1438 HCC Chameleon Room (SMC)l Free AdmiSSion 
Free Nachos grumpy b., you're no longer younger! "Can't Stop" you know how much I care. me CLUB TUESDAY CLUB TUESDAY CLUB TUESDAY L.M.S., Featunng Professional Welcome to Hollywood Bnan Huskey L.A. S1nger, GUitanst, Comed1an'r(iffi'ii'U;;;;v:·;;;\r;j;;;:22;;d.81ii¥HoA:v Th1s Tuesday, Oct. 13 
HCC Chameleon Room (SMC)
.............................................................. ,.. 
Free Adm • Free NachosJulie I love you (even though) you're a 
goo!IW 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYTo the guy who has my leather 1acket STEVE DYOKASand talks to my roommate· Please, HAPPY BIRTHDAYplease, please call me agam because I HAPPY BIRTHDAYreally want my jacket back I Will make 
~ worth your while I Please call 284·5437. 

continued from page 1 
spoke on condition or anonymity, said the plane was on a two-hour, regularly sched­uled flight from the national capital of Rangoon to Pagan, about 306 miles to the north. 
Pagan has about 5,000 resi­dents. It lies on flat terrain on the east bank of the Irrawaddy River, which crosses most of Burma. The town and sur­rounding area has hundreds of temples built during the 11th and 12th centuries. 
A Burman Airways crash on June 21 killed 45 Burmese. 
In that crash, a Fokker Friendship 27 hit a 8,200-foot­high mountain minutes after takeoff from the eastern Shan State town of Hho, about 280 miles northeast of Rangoon. 
The government has not said what caused the June crash. 
1 

lecture: "ECONOMICS IN THIS TIME" 1 


by JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH I 
Tuesday, October 13, 8:00pm I Washington Hall I sponsored by the Student Union Board I and the Economics Department 1 
TICKETS: $2.00  -available at The Cellar , 1Q/6 -1Qt9 & 10112  II  
12:00-1:00 pm & 4:00-5:00 pm  
An undergraduate reception, sponsored by the Colleqe ~ellows Off1ce of the College of Arts & Letters and the Student Un1on Board, w1ll be held from  II  

----------~~9.ll.~~1_1.___ -·---------'· 
~---­

The Observeli'Zollan Ury Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's William Dohar of Morrissey Hall presided over the 
sophomore class bare the cold on Sunday after­mass. noon to celebrate class mass at the Grotto. Father 
·----------•Store Coupon •----------­
I1 
4 Foot and 6 Foot 
I Giant Submarine Sandwiches 
I 
Present this coupon at time of purchase and receive a $3.00 Discount 
Please call to order in 
County
advance 277-8694 
Martiet.
SAVE 

TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS I 
5901 N. Grape Road I 
I
Buyer~ Market Place 
I

$3.00 
Mishawaka. IN 46545 
I 

--------------------------· 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS-------... 
~ $1 ~;~STUD==~ 
L
-------------------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
I MasterCuts I
1 Reg. $8 family haircutters I
------------1
f$5--0fF ANY PERM l 
: Maste~~ I ~-----------------~~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 277-3770
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
page 5 

Girl mauled by lion in flea market 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A lion being walked through a flea market suddenly grabbed an 8-year-old girl and mauled her, then grabbed her head between its jaws, only letting go after it was shot twice, police and wit­nesses said. 
The girl was ·in critical but stable condition Sunday, and authorities considered whether to file charges against the lion's owner. 
"It grabbed the little girl," said Brian Mason, a witness to Saturday's attack. "I could see the little girl trying to get away and screaming, her body sliding away on the floor." 
The lion's owner was holding the lion's chain but could not control the animal, Mason said. 
"The lion knocked over an ornament and became ex-
Wyl/,:~ co. 

INC. 
GIFTS IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 

\\~ ruc4 ~ ~ alf ~II 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 

Free Delivery to ND & SMC! 

COME IN AND BROWSE Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundaya9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 


Another Year 
Gone By· 

Have a Happy 18th Glenn! 
$1 COUPON 
cited," said Mason, 27. "He 
grabbed her and started drag­
ging her across the floor. She 
was screaming and everybody 
starting running around." 
A security guard accompa­
nying the lion and its owner 
shot the lion with a .44-caliber 
handgun but that didn't stop the 
attack, said police Lt. C.W. 
Driskell. 
"That seemed to aggravate 
the lion, and it grabbed her by 
the head," he said. "He then 
shot the lion again, and they 
still had trouble getting it to 
release the little girl." 
The lion's 35-year-old owner had operated a booth at the Texas Flea Market for about three months, letting shoppers have their picture taken with exotic snakes and the lion, said Driskell. 
Harris County prosecutors will decide what charges, if any, to file against him, police said. The owner was taken to police headquarters where he gave a statement. He declined comment to reporters. 
Roxanne Hernandez suffered a cracked skull and part of her brain was exposed during the attack, said paramedic J.W. Hays. 
After six hours of surgery at Hermann Hospital, she was in critical but stable condition Sunday, said hospital spokes­woman Barbara Cafferty. 
"She is doing well, she is con­scious," said Ms. Cafferty, adding that it was too early to determine whether there was brain damage. 
''All we can do is wait and see," she said. 
City health officials and a Houston Zoo veterinarian were c?.Bed in after the attack and injected the lion with tran­quilizers and taped its mouth. 
But while being loaded into a truck, the lion reared and slashed the arm of Dr. Karen Kemper, a veterinarian with the city's Bureau of Animal Regulation and Care. She was 
treated at the scene by paramedics. 
Kemper said the cat was later killed and its head sent for laboratory tests to see if it had rabies. 

$1 

$1 ofi\any delivery purchase with this coupon
z 0 NAUGLES 
~ 272-5455
~ 
0 
Free Delivery
u 
$6 minimum purchase LIMIT ONE COUPON PER ORDER offer expires l~W7 


$1 COUPON $1 

Viewpoint
page 6 Monday, October 12, 1987 
Peace Corps: a rewarding alternative 
When I was asked to write a letter to the students of Notre Dame describ­ing my "Peace Corps Experience," I was enthusiastic at the prospect of being able to share my experiences here in Thailand with you. However, when I began contemplating all that I have experienced in just one year here, I realized that this would not be an easy letter to write. How could I possibly sum up a year and three months of the most interesting and rewarding, yet culturally unfamiliar and sometimes frustrating, experiences of my life in a single letter? I have been sending let­ters home to family and friends weekly since I've been here, and I have the vague feeling they still think I'm living in a grass hut in the middle of a rice field somewhere in Southeast Asia. 
(Actually it's a wooden house in a vil­lage, surrounded by rice fields.) What follows is just a brief description of how I have found life in the Peace Corps to be from first applying while at Notre Dame to where I am now, one year down and only one more year to go ­unfortunately. 
Tracy Thornbury 

guest column 
Durmg my senior year at Notre Dame, two years ago, I began the process of applying to the Peace Corps. Since spending a semester in London my junior year, I was pretty intent on the idea of entering the Peace Corps upon graduation. However, being a con­scientious senior at that time, and, more accurately, dreading the prospect of May approaching and having no where to go but home to Mom and Dad, I quickly busied myself with job inter­views at Career Placement (few and far between thanks to my psychology and Spanish major), applications for grad school, and any volunteer pro­grams which sounded as inviting as the Peace Corps (none did, but I applied anyways). I applied to Peace Corps in October and spent the rest of my senior year anxiously awaiting an invitation. The application process turned out to be long and sometimes frustrating, but as I was told by some returned Peace Corps volunteers, if you're patient and persistent, chances are you will get ac­cepted eventually. In May I finally got an invitation to go to Thailand. Al­though I was thrilled that I would soon be on my way to becoming a Peace 
Doonesbury 
LASTti.HJ<., NO ONE IN 7H& cXTtNC1&!18U$H aAN WA9 ON 5P&AKJNG TERM5. 

Corps volunteer, I was still pretty clue­less as to what the next two years and three months would have in store for me. I had never even heard of Thailand before, let alone known where it existed on a map, and all I could imagine of this place was scenes from "The King and 1." 
In July I bid farewell to family and friends, and, armed with Swiss army knife and mosquito repellent, set off for San Francisco for a week of pre­training briefing. It was there I was thrown together with fifty other trainees, and we all flew to Bangkok together. Training Nas to consist of three months of langt'age and cultural lessons during which time we also had several weeks of tec~nical training depending on our progrctm. Since I was to be a TEFL (teachin,~ English as a foreign language) crossover agricul­ture volunteer, I spent six weeks in agriculture training and another four weeks in teacher training. In training we were taught the importance of as­similating into the culture. This meant adopting the language (learning to speak the dreaded five tones of the Thai language) and customs of the Thai people. We were told to dress and act conservatively. Women were advised not to wear shorts or other revealing clothing in public, and not to smoke or drink amongst the Thais. Men were warned against having beards or mus­taches as Thai men have little facial hair and regard unshaven foreigners as suspect. The male trainees were also notified about the Thai males' custom of visiting prostitutes and that they should be prepared should they be in­vited to join Thai co-workers for after­hour activities. After three months of living out of a suitcase (duffel bag rather) and being constantly evaluated by our Thai training staff, we were sworn in as volunteers and then sent off to do our duty in the rice fields of Thailand. After three months of living in close quarters with fifty other trainees, it was hard saying goodbye and going off on our own, but as a result of such closeness we had formed a sup­port system which would stay with us throughout our two years of service. 
I was sent off to the sticky rice fields in Northeastern Thailand, the poorest part of the country. It is here that my real Peace Corps experience begins. It is the daily life in the village of Moeiwadee that has shown me what the words "Peace Corps" really entail: living among the Thais (I haven't seen another foreigner since I was in Bangkok a month ago), speaking Thai (I'd have no friends and be quite inef­fective here if I couldn't speak the lan­guage), eating Thai food (rice and more rice and insects when lucky), the hassels of living in a village only ac­cesible by dirt road, thus forced to go by motorcycle or local transportation (consisting of privately owned open-air trucks run at the driver's convenience), but, most importantly, teaching En­glish and agriculture to twelve to fif­teen year old children every day. 
Every so called "sacrifice" that I may have made in coming here is for­gotten, or at most seems trivial, when I am with my students. That air con­ditioner during blazing heat, that insect-free house, paved roads and su­permarkets, and electric typewriter <as I type this on an antique manual one), cold and hot running water, a western style toilet, or that $25,000 a year job or study towards a masters or PhD degree, seem little to sacrifice for two years worth of smiles and laughter from my students. Just to hear a Thai child shout "hello" to me in the mor­ning makes me realize how lucky I am to have made such sacrifices, and to be a Peace Corps volunteer here. 
Tracy Thornbury is a 1985 graduate of Notre Dame and is currently serving as a member of the Peace Corps in Thailand. 
P.O. Box Q 
1 

esc lauded for determined efforts 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter to commend the staff's efforts at the Center for So­cial Concerns. The Center provides stu­dents with many opportunities to serve the South Bend community which, in turn, implicitly helps students build their individual charisma, spirituality and sense of social issues. It also pro­vides services which are geared to help students in a more explicit fashion. 
I am specifically writing to praise Mary Anne Roemer's efforts for or-
Garry Trudeau 
ganizing the Senior Reflection Groups. The groups offer seniors an excellent environment to relax and discuss their lives, goals, and values cultivated over the past four years. They offer a way to pull together the bits and pieces of our experiences realized here, to reflect on the "big picture" of the meaning of our college years, and to provide a clearer sense of direction for our lives. 
I believe six nights with good meals, good wine, and friendly, hearty and focused conversation will be well worth a senior's time. Stop by the Center to sign-up or to find out more about the group~ 
Matthew Zyniewicz Off-Campus 
Quote of the Day 

"All great discoveries are made by men whose feelings run ahead of their thinking." 
Charles Parkhurst 



General Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief. .. ...................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ...................... ...... Brian Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ......... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... David Culligan News Editor ........................... ....... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor ....... .................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ..................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor ...... ...........................Chris Murphy Projects Manager ................ ........ Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ............................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager.. .. ....... Shawn Sexton the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor... ............ Michael Naughton Controller......... .. .... . Tracy Schindele possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor . ...................... Sandy Ceiimele Graphic Arts Manager... .................. Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor..... .. .......................... Jim Carroll is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1968 


Accent 

went to # I on the UK under­ground charts with their "Some Candy Talking" EP. This EP consisted of a lot less noise and a lot more music. And for the first time, acoustic sounds were coming through. It was a shock certainly, but a change for the better. The group's sound was completely different from what it had been in the past. and the band gained a
-
huge following. 
In 1987 the group released Darklands. It is only their second released full-length al­bum, but the talents of the band are very apparent. Too often bands release great first albums and then don't ever seem to reach that height again. Not so here. Instead of trying to recapture the frenzied drones of their unique first al­bum, the Relds have changed and moved on. 
that 
This album emphasizes the vocals more, as well as the acoustic guitar, and there is
Darklands has 
page 7 

Soap up ate 
'Another World's' psychic connectio 
to build a clinic in the Bis­regained her memory. In cayne Islands, and ap­Pittsburgh, Faren said pointed Tiffany temporary goodbye to Evan and Betsy. president of HTI. Melissa Steven and Ashley ei'\Joyed reunited with Corey and their lodge getaway. John dumped Zack. Andy, after turned down Marc's project. taking pills, asked Simone Gina saw Rex and noted his to share a hotel room. A resemblance to her and mysterious woman came to Danny's father. Scorpio for help, then Coming: Rex escalates his 
vanished. Herbert arrived In pursuit of Kay. town. 1987, McNaught Synd. 

'certain something' 
ANN SEIFERT accent writer 

J""\arklands Is very simply one 
l..lof the strongest second albums I have ever heard, and one of the best albums of the year as well. The Jesus and Mary Chain, and Its brothers Jim and William Reid, have put together an album which is beautiful and upbeat, even as it 
is dark and moody. 
The first Jesus and Mary Chain LP was released as an Import In late 1985 and was entitled Psychocandy. Due to its success. the album was sub­sequently picked up and released domestically In the 
U.S. This enabled more people 
Associatt•d Pr£>ss 
How much do 

ou remember about the stories that have been in the news recently? If you score fewer than five correct answers. 
ou have been spending too 
n .., time on the crossword. 
I. In the Senate Judiciary Committee's vote of 9-5 against the nomination of Judge Robert H. Bark to the Supreme Court all the Democrats voted against him, as did one Republican, who was Sen.: (a) Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania; (b) Strom Thur­mond of South Carolina; (c) Charles E. Grassley of Iowa. 
2. The Supreme Court went ahead with the opening of its new term. Among the cases it has agreed to hear is one in­volving: (a) the barring of publication of an unauthorized to hear the crashing feedback and hollow echoing vocals which formed the band's early sound. 
On that first album, "Just Like Honey" was a huge hit and established the band as the new "big thing" in England. This label was bestowed on the two brothers even though nei­ther of them really knew how to play their Instruments. As a matter of fact, the two felt that nobody should have to hear them play live for more than half an hour, so they wrote Into their contracts that they'd play for no more than .30 minutes during live concerts! 
But then the band's sound began to change. In 1986 they 
biography of J.D. Salinger; (b) men-only clubs in New York; (c) rulings on the 1984 Bhopal disaster. 
.3. The federal government and more than 20 health or­ganizations issued guidelines on cholesterol hazards and treatment. recommending as a first recourse to those with high cholesterol levels: (a) a vigorous exercise plan; (b) drugs; (c) a cholesterol­lowering diet. 
4. The Bureau of Justice Statistics reported that In 1986 violent crime had: (a) abruptly halted Its downward trend, remaining at levels of the year before; (b) continued to drop, but at a slower rate of decline; 
(c) begun to rise sharply. 
5. Following outbreaks of unrest among Tibetans, Chinese policmen occupied 
art of Tibetan Buddhism's virtually no feedback. It sounds great as a whole and has a haunting. meaningful tone, which very few bands can con­vey. Early Love and Rockets and Bauhaus LP's are probably the closest comparisons to this album. 

"April Skies" is the first single and is very good, al­though it actually was released in July prior to the entire al­bum. "Darklands" is another strong cut. "Fall" is also a cool tune. 
It is on the slower songs such as "About You" and "Cherry Came Too" that the real evolution of this band emerges. 
The Jesus and Mary Chain have that certain somf.­thing. that sound that makes a listener want more and more. Ask for it on WVFI, and hope­fully you'll like it as much as I dol 
holiest place in the center of the capital, Lhasa: (a) Jokhang Temple; (b) Sera Monastery; (c) Jokhang Monastery. 
6. 
Vlktor P. Nlkonov, a mem­ber of the Soviet Union's ruling Politburo, arrived in the United States for a visit during which he was to study American: (a) agriculture; (b) education; (c) health care. 

7. 
The Federal Aviation Ad­ministration published figures showing that from last summer to this summer airline delays had: (a) risen sharply; (b) stayed the same; (c) declined significantly. 

8. 
Nationwide voting in a referendum resulted in the re-election of President Hosnl Mubarak. the only candidate, for six more years in office in: 


(a) Turkey; (b) Kenya; (c) Egypt. 
ANSWERS: I.a 2.b .3.c 4.b 5. 6.a 7.c 8.c 
Test your news IQ 
A
ll My Children: Erica sur­Yived surgery but feared for her unborn 'child~ The pollee put Noelle-Sllver In jail. Julie accepted an apart­ment and a job from Creed, unaware of his Intentions. Natalie told Donna that Ross raped her. A vengeful Bar­bara told the press that Brooke was considering an­other job, Infuriating Adam. Coming: Jeff offers help to Hilary. Another World: Cass forced Barbara to admit defeat at the fashion show. Jamie risked his job by allowing Lisa to psychically reach out to a comatose Vicki. Donna found incriminating photos In VIcki's purse and realized what her daughter suspected. Coming: Vicki gets a visitor. As The World Turns: Grace and Logan got married. Emma had an attck and was saved by Rod. Someone overheard Shannon and Duncan discuss his smug­gling. Learning of Emma's condition, Lily went back to Oakdale with Holden, but kept her distance from Lucinda, Iva and Rod. Hol­den fretted about his keeping the truth from Lily. Coming: James pressures Lucinda. Dallas: The Ewings searched for Pam, fearful that the mystery woman may have done her harm. JR wei· comed a woman from his past. Casey brought JR some good news. Sue Ellen felt a strong attraction to Nicholas. Jenna recon­sidered her feelings for Ray. Coming: JR and Bobby team up. Days Of Our Lives: Eve was thrilled when Kim went to Hawaii, leaving Shane with Gabrielle. Harper stole the adoption papers from Jo and fired her, but feared Kayla might have seen them. Melissa and Trevor were mutually attracted. Roman learned that Serena had stolen the disk. Coming: Roman and Diana grow closer. Dynasty: Black entered the political arena, which sparked a strong reaction from his challenger, Alexis. Adam felt hopeful of earning Blake's favor If he gave him a grandchild, prompting concern from Dana. Alexis offered her aid to Sean, not recognizing his ultimate plan once their romance was launched. Coming: Alexis and Blake face off. General Hospital: Monica left
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson' 
Coming: Edward suspects a setup. Guiding Light: While Reva debated telling Josh about the doctored test. Alan learned that Josh really was Marah's father. Johnny noted Will's attraction to Roxie. Dinah fell for Alan-Michael after he read an essay about her which Cam wrote. Meredith moved in with Maeve, making Fletcher un­easy. Phillip announced he was working for Alan. Coming: Phillip seeks revenge. Knots Landing: Abby confessed to murdering Peter. Gary's concern for Abby and Olivia caused ten· slons with Jill. Mack sensed that Abby's confession was a ruse. Greg was hurt when Laura returned from her visit to Richard without the boys. Coming: Mack wonders about the real killer. Loving: Clay was forced Into giving Shana her job back. Clay ordered Ava to cut back on the lavish wedding plans. Jim and Ned rescued April, but Alan perished In the flames. Vowing to get even with Ann for spreading rumors about her, Gwyn In· vited a gullible Harry to her hotel. Coming: Jim recovers from the rescue. One Life To Live: Billie showed up at Mari-Lynn's party and caused trouble for her and Wade. Wanda asked Gilbert to be her partner in a restaurant. Nurse Dixon killed Sandra In jail, but Tina Imagined the murderer was Maria. While Tina awaited psychiatric tests, Nurse Dixon plotted to kill her. Coming: Wade on the spot. Ryan's Hope: Jack got tem­porary custody of Zena. Dakota and Augle schemed to destroy Concetta. Nancy Don failed to seduce Ben. Emily told Jack she loved him. Coming: A way out for Emi­ly? Santa Barbara: Gina found Pamela and teamed up with her to get revenge on C.C. Cruz was stabbed In jail. Over Mason's objections, Tori agreed to take part In Mel Stock's fllm. Jake vowed he would work for T.J. In a movie to help pay Hilary's medical bills. T.J. asked Laken to dinner. Eden took a small step. Coming: Eden vows to help clear Cruz. The Young l!t The Restless: Cricket agreed to marry Phil· lip, delighting Kay and Jill. Andy realized Faren had 


Monday, October 12, 1987 
TOO LITTLE, TC 

---~-~-----------­
pages 8-9 

-

0 LATE, 30-22 
Photography by Greg Kohs and Robert Jones 

-
Auto Guide 
Monday, October 12, 1987 
Check cars before fall break 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN j Checking over the fim belts j Topping off the windshield Projects Manager and other belts in the engine wiper fluid tank. "All the salt compartment. and sand used on the roads in 
Fall break is a good time to j Leaving a shovel, some sand, this area tends to cake up on check over your car in prepa­and chains or other traction-the car's windshield. People go ration for the winter months, aiding materials in your trunk through wiper fluid pretty according to Michael Plank, just in case. quickly," said Plank. 

sales representative at the Chicago Motor Club. 
"This is the time of year people should be thinking about cold weather," Plank said. ''The most important thing is to check over your tires. They will behave differently in colder temperatures and on ice and snow." Cold weather will cause the tires to become harder, Plank said, so checking the pressure period1cally is also a good idea. 
Plank also said that a tune-up would help cars start more con­sistently in winter weather. 
Other preventive mainte­nance measures Plank men­tioned include: j Flushing the radiator to avoid clogging with debris. Radiators are stressed more in winter months. j Checking the antifreeze level. j Changing spark plugs. 
AMERICAN MUFFLER CORP. 
317 DIXIE WAY SOUTH 
(US 31 • 33)
ca~ 

SOUTH BEND (ROSELAND) Muffler Shops 
INDIANA 48837 (219) 272-8433 

20% discount with this coupon -good through 1 001!87 
SHOCKS -STRUTS -BRAKES -REAR SPRINGS 
C:U:::l~[:l~ Must Present Coupon When Scheduling Service. 
(;cnuinc Parts and Servin· 
Service Hours Please call 7:00·5:30 Mon.-Fri. for appointment Grape Rd. & Edison, 
BASNEY 
Mishawaka 

~HONDA 256-5550 
We offer courtesy rides back to campus 
TUNE UP SPECIAL 

: ~ Quality parts •• 
4 CYL. 6 CYL 8 CYL I '3211 '3815 '4215 
• 4NAeA~ Professional :
I MOST U.S. & FOREIGN CARS 

• 
Spark plugs. fuel filter. a1r filter 


• 
Set carb., t1mmg (where applkatllt!! 


: 1llllr Service :
• Check battery. chara.na svstem 
_....
• EXPIRES 10-16-87 


:l:l :;;, :; ~ ~ ~~.. 

ATTENTION 
FIRST TIME AOTO BOYER 
NISSAN is offering a New "First Time Buyers Plan" 
Put yourself into a new Nissan or used car or truck for little or no money down. If you are employed and at least 18 years old, come out & see or call 
JIM LaCLOYSE 
FOR A FREE CREDIT CHECK! 
CORAL NISSAN 
51176 
277-5800
!0.5. 31/33 N. 
-
-

Change Oil -Up to 5 qts. Quaker State 10W30 or 10W40 Oil New Quaker State Oil Filter•Lubricate Chassis 
ALL SERVICE INCLUDES: 
..... Check & Fill TransmiSSIOn ..... Check & F111 Power Steenng ..... Check & F111 Brake Flu1d ..... Check & Fill 01fferentJal ~ ..... Checi-. & Properly Inflate T1res 
\(;i

..... Check Battery Water Levels & F1ll ..... c,ean W1ndows Outs1de ..... vacuum Car 1ns1de .,..Check & Adv1se Cond1t1on of A1r Filter .,..Check & F111 Windshield Washer Solvent 

NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY IT'S WORTH THE DRIVE TO McQU/K'S! 
:-----~~~()-c;--(jff-----: 
I (With this coupon) I I
I Our Regular Price of $19.95
I I I I
IRONWOOD & EDISON

I I
SOUTH BEND, IN

I I
(219) 232·0208 
I
HIVELY & BENHAM AT

I 
I McOuiH PIERRE MORAN MALL I 
I ELKHART, IN I
: l Oilube. I
I (219) 522·23U
1'-·----­
,__) BRISTOL & CASSOPOLIS I 1 ELKHART, IN I I (219) 262·2306 I 
I EXPIRES 1117187. NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. I 
WE PROMISE! 
FREE REFILLS FOR 3 MONTHS/3,000 MILES 
If normal usage of your vehicle causes it to run low on any fluids between regular 3 month/3,000 mile visits to McQuik's we will check and fill it FREE! Just get in line at any McQuik's Oilube location with this certificate of mileage -we'lltop off the low (up to 1 qt of oil per visit) fluids -at NO CHARGE! Limit 3 visits within 3 month/3,000 mile period. Free refills program does not include fuel or anti-freeze. 
~, 


I Oilubo. I 
Domestic Car Care Center 

I
Bring in this ad to receive 1 
I 
same as 

1
$10 cash on any 1 service I
--------------1 

KEEP THAT GREAT GM FEELING WITH GENUINE GM PARTS. 
GATES CHEVROLET INC. 666 W. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka, IN 46544 256-3000 
Come in for a FREE Inspection of I your vehicle! Includes: I 
I. Tire Weal/Condition Front 

2. 
Tire Weal/Condition Rear 

3. 
Alignment The Wear 


4. 
Condition of McPherson Struts 

5. 
Brake Pedal Adjustment 



7. 
Condition of Front Brakes 


8. 
Brake, Hydraulic System 

9. 
Emergency Brake Adjustment I 0. Clutch Adjustment 


I I. Clutch Hydraulic System 
12. Condition of Muffler 
J!~

14. 
Engine or Transmission Oil Le..ak 

15. 
Condition of Belts 

16. 
Drive Belts Adjustment 

17. 
Condition of Radiatoli"Coolant 

18. 
Condition of Radiator Hoses I 9. Condition of Heater Hoses 


20. 
Condition of Battery 

21. 
Condition of Battery Cables 

22. 
Condition of Fuel Filter 

23. 
Condition of Wiper Blades 

24. 
Head Light Adjustment 


page 11 

-
Rice 
continued from page 16 
Terrell. A 16-yard run by Rice for Notre Dame's first points capped that drive. 
After Todd Lyght blocked a 

Panther punt, Rice led the of­
fense 19 yards to cut Pitt's lead 
to 27-14. 
In the fourth quarter Rice 

again connected with Brown on 
a 42-yard pass. But with first 
and goal at the nine, Rice 
rushed twice for three yards. 
After a third-down incomple­
tion, the pressure was on to 
score as Holtz called for a pass 
on fourth down. The Irish had 
the right play called, but Rice 
was blitzed and threw before 
his receivers turned around . 
The contrasts continued as 

Rice hit Brown for 22 yards, 
then pitched to Mark Green 
who carried it in from 17 yards. 
A two-point conversion move 
the Irish to within eight of the 
Panthers. 
"Tony came in and did great," said Brown, who helped Rice with three recep­tions for 94 yards. "He scored 22 points in a half. Hopefully he can look at the things he did wrong and right and come out next week and do the job." 
Rice got a taste of pressure football in the final minute when Notre Dame recovered the on-sides kick. After two runs moved the ball to the Pitt 38-yard line, Rice threw two in­completions and was sacked, setting up fourth down and 17 with time running out. 
Rice dropped back to pass, but he could not find a receiver. Then he spotted the clock with 10 seconds left. He rolled right and headed for the sidelines, forgetting it was fourth down. The game was over, but Rice's future as Notre Dame's quar­terback was just beginning. 
"The young man performed very admirably in the game," said Holtz, "but he has a lot to learn. He's a true freshman, and he has a lot to learn. 
"There are a lot of things I need to work on, a lot of mis­takes to correct," said Rice. "But I'm ready to do what needs to be done." 

The Ultimate Spark Plug 
• 
BElTER STARTING • LESS FOULING 

• 
BElTER ACCELERATION • FUEL SAVING 

• 
SMOOTH ENGINE-MAINTENANCE FREE OPERATION 


• SLIGHT EXTRA CHARGE FOR PLATINUM PLUGS
r---------·COUPON·---------, I $5.00 OFF REG. TUNE UP l 
1 (REGULAR'44.90) "4 cyl.' INCLUOESPARTS&LABOR ~ 
ll • WE ALWAYS CHANGE POINTS-CONDENSEA·PLUGS I 
• 
WE CHANGE AT NO EXTRA COST (IF NEEDED) I CAP-ROTOR-PVC VALVE-3 PLUG WIRES 1 

• 
WE ADJUST TIMING-CARBURETION (EXCEPT WHEN 1


I
I FACTORY SEALED) I 
1.:~~~~~!!.!_2 MILE~-----.J 
We ..your engine Performance Experts 
CALL US AT 233-9318 
For an appointment 
M-F 8 to 5/Sat. 8-1 
601 E. JEFFERSON BLVD. som BEID 

Coupon Expires: 



-
page 12 The Observer Monday, October 12, 1987 
Tile~ Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, ~~CeePts classified advertising from 10 Lm. untll4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. Tile~ Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of HaggarCollge Center, accepts clasalfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-<lay classllleds Is 3 p.m. All classllleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five cher.:ters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
..................... TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Typing 237-1949 or 277-8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. ·······......................................................... 
ATTENTION DOMERS 
There will be an NO vislory party after 
the Air Force game at Mike Brown's 
house in Colorado Springs. II you are 
going to be there and need directions, 
~~~--~~-~:=~-~~:......................................... 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST-Gold Cross and Chain Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
LOST AT THE MAIN HALLWAY IN THE LIBRARY ON MONDAY NIGHT OCT 5 A GREY HARDCOVER THREE RING BINDER WITH A BIOLOGY LAB INSIDE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL SOON 284· 4393 THANK YOU 
LOST: SILVER CROSS WITH GOLD RISEN CHRIST IMAGE SUPER· IMPOSED ON THE CROSS. LOST IN MEN'S LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK. GRADUATION PRESENT OF SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 1763. 
LOST: A BLACK RADIO HEADSET WITH BLUE-COVERED EAR PHONES· ·S ONE SINGLE UNIT-COMPACTABLE. PLEASE CALL 3881 IF FOUNDI THANKS I 
FOUND Watch outside of Morrissey. Call £3488 to identify. 
PURPLE BOOK BAG MISSING! If you "borrowed" my bag Tues Oct 6 from SAGA PleaseiPieasel return anything that is left to me. No questions asked. I'm really desperate to get It back & will do anything! THANK YOU, LISA 284· 4454 
JOE O'CONNOR: I'VE HAD YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK SINCE THE MSU GAMEl I KNOW YOU LIVE ON CORBY ST. BUT I DON'T KNOW WHEREI SO CALL COLLEEN £3885 IF YOU WANT TO GO TO THE REST OF THE GAMESI 
FOUND: Gold chain bracelet at Wedding· less Reception Saturday,1D-3. It is gaining in sentimental value for my girlfriend, so reclaim it before she takes it for her own. 271·0573 
$25 CASH REWARD for the return of my leather aviators jacket lost in a drunken stupor sometime last week. The brand name is Midway. Please call Jeff at 3166. 
LOST: A long gold chain with a TIGER· EYE PENDANT, somewhere between the War Memorial and the Architecture Building, on Friday October 9th. There is a large tiger-eye attached with a half moon, six beads, and a bent clasp. It has INCREDIBLE sentimental valuelllll Please call Karen at £1992, 143 B·P. 
····························································· 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
FURNISHED 3 BEDROOM APT BEAU­TIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS $40o-MO, HEAT INCLUDED 233 6298 
10R2 HOUSEMATES NEEDED TO SHARE HOUSE W2MALES 287-0753 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $9D0-2000 mo. Slghtaeelng. Free Info. Write IJC, PO bx 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
ANYONE GOING EAST ON 180 ON THURS PM I NEED RIDE TO SELINSGROVE PA AND BACK CALL MIKE 1105 
EARN $4 PER HR. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING, MEALS & EXCELLENT WORK ENVIRONMENT ARE AVAIL­ABLE. CALL 277-2682 FROM 10 AM & 8 PM FOR DETAILS. 
I WANT TO BUY A MACINTOSH COM· PUTER. CALL 271·0962 OR 284·5338 
MY MOTHER"S BIRTHDAY IS NOV. 14 and all aha wants Ia tlx to B.C and BAMA. I need lour tlx to aachll Also tlx to Navy and Penn. Please call LISA 283-3701. 
WORK FOR THE £1 HOTEL COMPANY IN THE WORLD. NOW HIRING PART· TIME BANQUET WAITERS AND WAITRESSES. MUST BE 21. APPLY IN PERSON MARRIOTT HOTEL PERSON· NEL OFFICE TUESDAY AND WEDNES­DAY AFTER 10AM. EOEIAA 

RIDE NEEDED TO DC FALL BRK 287· 0753 
Need ride to Champaign for fall break-­call Mike 1699 
1NEED ARloi(rO"i:':"Hii:':"AGO.FR·I:·oC:T: 
16 AFTER NOON. CALL KEVIN x3113 
WILL PAY$! 
RIDE NEEDED FOR OCT BREAK TO BINGHAMTON-SYRACUSE AREA CALL ERIN 2732 
NEED RIDE TO UNIV. OF TOLEDO AFTER USC GAME, call Jay x2072 
HOCKEY REFEREES WANTED Join the Mlchlana Hockey Officials As­aoclatlon and officiate In the Irish Youth Hockey League. Arrangements can be made so that all of your games are In the ACC. To receive an appll­cation call 277-9901. ............................................................... . 
I 
FOR SALE 

SONY DISKS Why pay $2.80 or more? Support the MadMacs Macintosh User's Group and get high-quality, Sony 3.5" diskettes for only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at 283-2101 or stop by Stanford 136. 
For Sale--Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, Michigan Charming 7 room cottage. Gas heat, stone fireplace. Home newly remodelled. All new kitchen appliances. Enclosed porch adjoining kitchen area. Dining room, living room, 3 bedrooms, 1 bath. One block trom private Howell Point Park with swimming and boat mooring privileges. Great home for week ends or year 'round living. Ski resorts nearby. Owner $49,900. (616) 445-2219. 
CROWN POWER AMPLIFIER D-150 A, SERIES 2 AND CROWN PSL-2 PRE­AMP. CALL 239-7862 DAILY 9-4. 
I have 2 NAVY GA's. Already been of­fered $75 for the pair. It still interested, call SLUG at 3105. 
································································ 
TICKETS 

NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA­TION --TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CO MATT 283·3549 
$$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 33t9 
NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFER II CALL 1075 
NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5216 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA's 

GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1489 
NEED 3 NAVY GAS CALL 2782 
NEED ALABAMA and NAVY TIX x3611 

need 3 BC ga's --call Mary at £2808 
NEED 4 BC TIX WILLING TO PAY BUCKS ANOOR TRADE 2 BAMA GAs CALL SCOTT £t412 
Need USC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 11!1 Call Joe 287-4561 aMer 6pm 
HELPIII Sister and hubby need USC GA's (in pairs). Please call Steve at 4223 or I may never see my nephew againll! 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. PARENTS COM­ING ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO TO SEE THE GAME. CALL JOSE x3346 
WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then self ma your BC GA's so my 
sisters, cousins, and uncles can see 
the Eaglesloselllllll Call Steve at 232­
9816. 

BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX 
BC TIX 
USC-USC·USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DADI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272·5417, ASK FOR SL 
NEED USC TIX. CALL DOUG AT 234­6718. 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-346-2822 AFTER 5 PM. 
PLEASE II I need 1 STUD or GA for the BAMA game. Call 4209 
CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES IIIII I 
1 need GA's for all home games. I need them badl--honest ingen Please call Jeff 1699 
N~;;d·6·usc·G;:~:·c·~,i·:i~~~;;-2ii4~4i'54. 
············································~··················· 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 aMer 6pm. 
FOR SALE 

U2 TIX INDY CONCERT 
CALL 2030 

HELP!! NEED USC OR BC GA'S BIG BUCK$ BIG TAILGATORII CALL TODD 1355 OR SHAWN 2129 
I NEED 3 USC GA'S -KATHY 2909 
YOU GOTTUM AND I WANTUM. NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS CALL CHRIS AT X1694 
NEED TWO USC GA'S. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL PETE AT 283·3543 
MY PARENTS, LITTLE BROTHER AND CUTE LITTLE SISTER ALREADY HAVE PLANE TICKETS AND HOTEL RESERVATIONS. THEY'RE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO. HELP! NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL GIL AT 277-7261 P.S. I MIGHT LET YOU MEET MY SISTER IF YOU DO. 
................................................................ 
WILL SWAP 2 USC TICKETS FOR TWO BC TICKETS. WILL SWAP 2 PENN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 BC TICKETS. CALL BILL STARR BOD-343-2820. WILL ALSO BUY BC FOR $$. 
MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283· 1997. 
Have "friends" comming up for the USC game. Would love to get them GA's so that they can see their Alma Mater get stomped! Please calf Bill 283-2326 or Chris x2322. 
USC: I need two GAs tor the USC game. Call Mike at 271-0765. 
BC Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col­lege game. Please call Mike at 271-0765. 
I NEED U.S.C. TICKETS IN A BIG WAY AND WILL PAY BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL PETE AT 3506 OR 3498. I NEED UP TO 25 TICKETS FOR THIS ONE GAME. HELP ME OUT.. ... 
Do you need $? Well I need 4-6 GA Navy tickets. Call 284-4648 day or 272-5578 evening. 
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE WILL PAY $$$$ OR TRADE UP WITH 2 NAVY G.A.'S. CALL ANNE AT 2764 
GRANDPARENTS need 2 GA's to NAVY game.Kevin 289-8216 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS! CALL DAVID X1817 
USC-USC NEED 2 USC GA'S I HAVE 2 BC GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH KEVIN 234-t208 
PLEASE HELP MEl I NEED A USC GA. 
NEED IT BAD MAKE ME AN OFFER I 
CAN'T REFUSE CALL BRIAN £3007 
............................................ 

NEED USC AND BC GA'S 287·0753 
HELP NEED 4 ALABAMA TICKETSII CALL 233-9660 ASK FOR BOB, WILL PAY$$ 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY 3346 
NED 1 BAMA STU. TIX CALL TONY 3346 
I HAVE 2 USC GAS OR 2 ALABAMA GAS WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR 2 BC GAS. KATHY 289·2527 
Need 1 Navy GA for fatherl Can you help? Please call Frank at 283-2226. Thanks I 
Need 4 USC GAs together. I have 2 Navy GAs and $$$ call Kevin £1496 
MY PANTIESII for your USC G.A.'s. I desperately need 2. $$-My terms are VERY negotiablelll -$$ Please, CALL MEII Lisa £1421 
I DESPERATELY NEED 7 TICKETS TO THE AIR FORCE GAME IN COLORADO. MY SEVEN IL­LEGITIMATE CHILDREN ARE MEETING ME AT THE GAME. PLEASE RESPOND AS SOON AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE I AM PREGNANT RIGHT NOW AND I MIGHT END UP NEEDING EIGHT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 284· 5470. 
I NEED TWO USC GAs Call Kate: 4120 
NEED TIX FOR BC. CALL 283·4350 AFTER 5 PM. 
Needed 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud tix call Brian 1456 
Needed 4 Navy GA's & 2 stud tix call Brian at 1456 
USELESS SEARCH CONTINUES ... PLEASE END MY HUNT FOR USC TIXI CALL JEN £4387 
ROW ROW ROW YOUFI BOAT DAD IS SURE TO PAY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONE NAVY GAl (DOES THIS SOUND DESPERATE, OR WHAT?I?) CALL JEN £4387 
DESPERATE FOR 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261. 
NEED 2 USC TIXI STUDENT/GA. $$NO PROBLEM. CALL (404) 392·1500 COL­LECT. ASK FOR STEVE JEGIER OR LEAVE MSG. 
HELP NEED 2 USC TIX 10 BC TIX CALL ANDY 193t OR MIKE 287-3980 
HELP! DESPARATELY NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL SCOTT X1640 
HELPIII NEED ONE STUD. OR GA TIX FOR THE NAVY GAME. I AM WILLING TO PAY A LOT OF $$$$. CALL WILL X3119 
NEED 2 GA'S TO NAVY,BC,OR BAMA! KATHY £3607 
1!!1$$$$$$!!1!1 FREE GIFT 1!1!!$$$$$!1!1 WANTED 3 ALABAMA TIX (GA'S OR STUD) HAVE USC STUD TIX TO TRADE AND LOTS OF $$$$. CALL KEVIN X2477. 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR ANY OF THE REMAING HOME GAMES JEFF 4364 
I NEED ONE TICKET (STUDENT OR 
GA) FOR THE BOSTON COLLEGE 
GAME CALL CHRIS AT 1561. 
..........................,.................................... 
HAVE 2 NAVY TX, WILL TRADE FOR 
2 BC TX OR WILL BUY BC TX FOR BIG 
BUCKS. CALL JULIE AT 4053 MON. OR 
LATER 

.................................. 
ONE MUSKETEER NEEDS TICKETS 
FOR THE 
OTHER TWO TO THE USC GAME 
GA OR STUDENT 
CALL DA~TAGNAN (CHUCK) AT 2443 
t tic fl1 Ohare to Calif. Price negotiable. Call Rex 232·5118. 
NEED USC STUD. TIX--CHRIS £3515 
1£$% &'() Wanted: 2 GAs or STUs lor USC 271-0611 
I'm a Satan worshipper who needs BC tickets for my boss. Seriously, though, call Kevin at 3164. Willing to trade a Navy ticket. 
TICKETS NEEDED Wealthy Wall St. Alum needs Penn St. and BC tlx. Call Mall 1-800-223-8559. 
GIMMEE, GIMMEE, GIMMEE--2 BAMA GA'S WILL PAY FOR YOUR CHILD'S COLLEGE EDUCATION CALL PETE AT 271-0479 
2, 3 OR 4 GA'S NEEDED FOR ALA· BAMA GAME--CALL BILL AT X3366 
I NEED USC GA'S--HAVE NAVY GA'S AND MIAMI GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH TO PAY··CALL DAVID X1712 
WANTED: USC TIX Ill CALL JOHN 2236 
PLEASE, PLEASE ME--Sell me Navy GA'sl Call Jim at 2474,2457. 
f need 4 GA tlx lor USC game. Please calf Magan 284-4311. 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC. CALL 312-623­5328. WILL PAY$$$. 
HEYIII I NEED FOUR USC STUDENT TIX CALL TOM AT 1245 --THANXMAN 
SENIOR IN NEED OF G.A.'s for HOME games, especially U.S.C. and Navy. Please help me it's the last time they can get to a game. Call in the am. or alter 10 pm. Thanks I Ann 284-5064. 
NEED FOUR BAMA TICKETS CALL GREG AT 289-8714 
I NEED 5 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON 2519. 
I have USC GA. 258-4006 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's: Paul 234-8847 
NEEDED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC GAME. CALL CHRIS AT X1145. 
I've got to get 2 NAVY stud. tix if I want to live. X2669 HAVE 2 ALGA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL 312·833-3696 EVENINGS. 
NEED 10 USC TIXI NEED 10 USC TIXI NEED 10 USC TIXI You can't lose I'm desperate. Mike (312) 565-5959 (Day) or 
(312) 761-2099 (Eve or Weekend) 
( PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRYOUTT03 A.M. U.S. 31 N.,ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Kim Skiles· Dumb Quotes of the Week: 
1) Oops, my private and personal thoughts slipped outl 2) Oh, my mouth is not good enough for you? 3) I will bite your finger off and eat it for breakfast. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE BRODERICK 
Pattie & Dabble the party was exellent love,Anne & Suey 
ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Monday night: Alcohol Council talk and discussion on Perceptions and Attitudes toward Alcohol. Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune at 8:30 
Tuesday night: Bartending Demonstra­tion in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFor­tune at 7:30 
Everyone Welcome! 
To those two beaut1fulleM-handed Oomettes that sit in front of us in Physics. we would choose you over 
"them" any day'! Secret Admirers 
SMC·ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON (May-June 17) and ROME (June 12-July 11) Courses In Art, Buec, Bfo, Hlat, ltal, and Soc INFORMATIONAL MEETING October 12, 7:00P.M. Carroll Hall at SMC Talk with Teachers and Former Partl· clpants Slide Show and Free Pizza For More Info. Call Prof. A.R.Biack, 284-4480 or 272-3726 
I'm looking for a ride to CINCINNATI or OXFORD over fall break SS will pay SS call 234-7395 John 
$$HELP!I$$ NEED 2 USC GA'S AND BAMA STUD & GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID £3592 
$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$ NEED ONE G.A. (NOT STUDENT) FOR USC GAME. ANNE WILL PROMISE MORE SEXUAL FAVORS--FOR FREE!III!II!!!!I!I PLEASE CALL 284-4372 IMMEDIATELY!!$$$$$$ 
Ride needed to Bloomington, IN FALL BREAK. call Les. 284-4320 
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY$$$' CALL SUE AT X4238 
GIVE AN 87 DOMER A BREAK My bro needs BC tix ST!GA -Cathy 2783 
HELP! Am in desperate need of GA's for USC game I $$ Call Amy x4098. 
U2 TIX FOR SALE! CALL GARY 2030 
$100.00 CASH REWARD FOR THE RECOVERY OF NO CLASS RING ENGRAVED: GORE '61 -'89 CALL 3596 
ELIZABETH-ANNE CRISP: Hope you are adequately preparing lor your Big Celebration on Thursday, Oc­tober 15, 19871 
Columbus 

GOING TO BOSTON FOR BREAK? I HAVE TICKETS: LEAVE SOUTH BEND 1CYI6 RETURN 1G25 WILL SELL ONE WAY MEGAN 2578 
WANTED: A FEW GOOD DEPRESSED PEOPLE THAT NEED SMILES. 
Just Cuz Balloons 287-6043 
WE DO TAILGATERS. MAKE YOURS NOTICEABLE. 
Just Cuz Bellona 287-8043 908 Portage Ava. 
KIM HURRY HOME FOR OCT. BREAK! NO ONE HERE FEEDS US BETWEEN MEALS OR LEAVES THEIR ELECTRIC BLANKETS ON ALL DAY FOR US TO SLEEP ONI 
SMEAG & SMUDGE 
TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND THAT BEAUTIFUL GIFT YOUR ROOM· MATES GAVE YOU FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY WANTS TO TURN AROUNDI TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND 
REALLY NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR NAVY & BAMA CALL LAURIE & JILL 1254 
GIVE ME A BREAK! Or at least a ride for one to Grand Rapids MI. Please call Cecelia 2632. 
HELP! I need a ride to Columbus, Ohio or to Athens, Ohio tor October break. WILL PAY$$$$$. call Patti 284·5528 
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC' HELP-I need as many stud tix as pos­sible.Piease call Kathy 284-5531. 
THEO MAJORS AND MINORS: PLEASE ATTEND THE IMPORTANT MEETING TOMORROW, OCTOBER 13 AT 8:00PM IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ANITA CHUA, EXACTLY HOW TALL ARE YOU? -SH 
.................................................... 
"HI" TO THE OBSERVER'S CUTE NEW SPORTS WRITER 

HOOVER, WHO IS YOUR THEORETI­CAL FOURTH DIMENSIONAL ROOMATE? REPLY: "HELP YOU" 
......................................................... 
MARK RIDGEWAY, POP MY STACK · FROM THE GIRL IN EE361 

QUOTE OF THE WEEK, A.S.: 'WELL J.S., WHILE WE ARE IN MED SCHOOL AND YOU'RE SWEEPING OUT THE GYM OF YOUR LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL WE'LL BE THINKING OF YOU. BUT HAVE A NICE TIME OVER SPRING BREAK!!" 
JANICE TERPIN The fun is just beginning .. 

NEED RIDE TO OKLAHOMA FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL HELP WITH DRIVING AND GAS. CALL BRAD AT 4133. 
JUNIORS I 

DOGBOOK PICTURES WILL BE TAKEN MONDAY TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY NIGHTS FROM 6 TO 10 PM ROOM 307 LAFORTUNE 
ORDERS WILL BE TAKEN -COST $8 BRING YOUR CHEESIEST SMILEI 
"SHY EYES"·SI'M CURIOUS, WHAT DO I LOOK LIKE? MAGGIE M. 
Brigid, This sensitive, energetic Thoroughbred would love to romp in your pasture. SFX 
It's Meg's Birthday Today! The big t8! Stop by 122 Lyons and give her a big kiss! Since Meg dropped her sport, she has more time for the men of NO! Have a great one! (Don't get too drunk.) 
Pink, Bono, and the Screamin' Otters 
URGENT Need 3 GA's for Prarie View A&M Will pay .0$ .0$ 
Kevin 2335 
SNARF SNARF SNARF 

..................... HELP! NEED RIDE HOME FOR BREAK! I LIVE IN DOWNTOWN CHICAGO, CAN LEAVE AFTER 4 FRIDAY. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS. CALL THERESA AT X2138. 
FREE: ONE HIGH QUALITY C90 BLANK CASSETTE. 
COSMOS INTERNATIONAL BOX 43056 ST. LOUIS, MO 83143 

YOUR PENCIL IS BIG AND YELLOW 
................................................................ 

PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE LET ME GET WHAT f WANT-1 NAVY GA or STUD TICKET. CALL VIENNA 3719. 
JUNIORS I 
DOGBOOK PICTURES WILL BE TAKEN MONDAY TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY NIGHTS FROM 6 TO 10 P.M. ROOM 307 LAFORTUNE 
ORDERS WILL BE TAKEN -COST $8. 
BE THERE I 

see PERSONALS, page 4 
Monday, October 12, 1987 page 13
The Observer 


#usl 

The Observer I Greg Kohs Pittsburgh's Craig Heyward turns the corner and outruns Notre Dame's Brandy Wells. Heyward scored two touchdowns and rushed for 132 yards In the Panthers' upset win. Game stories begin on page 16. 
Sports Briefs 
In NFL action yesterday, Indianapolis blanked the NY Jets, 6-0; Miami shut out Kansas City, 42-0; Dallas crushed Philadelphia, 41-22; Chicago beat Minnesota, 27­
7; Houston defeated Cleveland, 15-10; Detroit nipped Green Bay, 19-16 in OT; New England ran by Buffalo, 14-7; San Diego sunk Tampa Bay, 17-13; St. Louis beat New Orleans, 24-19; Washington whipped the NY Giants, 38-12; San Francisco defeated Atlanta, 25-17; Cincinnati grounded Seattle, 17-10; and the LA Rams rolled over Pittsburgh, 31-21. -Associated Press 
The ND soccer team won the USC-Spartanburg tournament with a 2-1 overtime win against Spartanburg Saturday and a 4-1 victory over Winthrop Sunday. Details will appear in Tuesday issue. -The Observer 
Squash Club members can pick up the playing roster tonight at 240 Fisher from 6-7 p.m. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold an organizational meeting Wednesday, October 14, in the library auditorium at 7 p.m. It is mandatory for anyone interested and those who signed up for the Christmas Break trip. Any questions, call Chris­topher (234-6718), J.P. (271-9082), Maureen (271-0564), or Laurie (2656). -The Observer 
I!()SSIIIIJ!J 
In a world of possibilities, great things can happen. People need people. And people ... need to be needed. Nobody believes that like the Glenmary Home Missioners. Because for 15 years we've 
brought the two together in the heart of Appalachia. 
That's why we're seeking single Catholic males to share their time, labor, and friendship in Appalachia this holiday season. 
It's an easyargument that there are more comfortable ways to spend the Yuletide. But in Appalachia, you'll discover a sense of brotherhood, community, and true Christmas spirit that's as old as the hills. 
December 19-24, 1987 December 28..January 2, 1988 
For more information, return this coupon as soon as possible to Brother Jack Henn, GLENMARY HOME MISSIONERS, Box 465618, Cincinnati, OH 45246-5618. 
Name_____________________________Mge _____ 
Address____________________________________ 
City__________________state_____~ip_____ 
Phone#( ________.-College·___________--=-=--:--­
021-87 

GLENMARY home missioners 
Playoffs roundup 
Twins, Giants one win away 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Kirby Puckett and Greg Gagne homered, moving the Minnesota Twins within one game of their first World Series in 22 years with a 5-3 victory over the Detroit Tigers Sunday night. 
The victory broke a traveling jinx for the Twins -the worst road team in playoff history ­and gave them a 3-1 advantage in the best-of-seven series. 
Bert Blyleven, 15-12 and the winner of Game Two at Min­nesota, will go against Doyle Alexander, 9-0, Detroit's opening-game loser, in Game Five Monday. 
Detroit's Darrell Evans cost his team two runs with his baserunning and fielding. 
Evans was picked off third base by Twins catcher Tim Laudner in the sixth inning with the Tigers trailing 4-3. Two pitches later, reliever Juan Berenguer threw a wild pitch. 
In the eighth, Evans, the Tigers' regular first baseman, made an error at third base as the Twins added their insur­ance run. 
Gagne, the Twins shortstop, made a first-inning error that 
Block 
continued from page 16 
Lyght set up another Irish score when he darted past the line of scrimmage and blocked a John Rasp punt late in the third quarter. That gave Notre Dame the ball at the Pitt 19, and fullback Braxston Banks scored on a one-yard plunge six plays later, just into the fourth frame. 
But the next time the Irish got the ball, they started at their own eight-yard line thanks to a clipping penalty on the Pittsburgh punt. A penetrating Panther defense kept them there, and great field position set up a 20-yard Jeff Van Horne field goal when Pitt got the ball back. 
Notre Dame failed to score a point when it had a first-and­goal from the Panther nine­yard line. Rice was pressured cost his team a run, but so did Tigers right fielder Larry Herndon. And Herndon's fifth­inning fluff proved to be the dif­ference as the Twins, 2-4 here during the season, beat Tigers left-bander Frank Tanana, who contributed to his own downfall with a playoff record three hit batsmen. 
The Twins had a 29-52 record on the road this season -worst of any division or pennant win­ner in history. 
Puckett hit a solo homer in the third, and Gagne had one in the fourth. Between the two of them, they were 2-for-23 in the first three playoff games. 
Giants 6, Cardinals 3 
SAN FRANCISCO -Kevin 
Mitchell homered and drove in 
two runs Sunday and the San 
Francisco Giants ran past the 
St. Louis Cardinals 6-3, sprint­
ing to a 3-2 lead in the National 
League playoffs. 
The Giants moved within one victory of their first World Se­ries appearance since 1962, using their power and stealing the Cardinals' speed. Game Six will be Tuesday night in St. Louis, away from the swirling winds that turned Candlestick · Park into a crazy cauldron. 
overthrew Banks in the endzone. 
But the Irish got another chance with 2:29 left to play, trailing 30-14. It took them three plays and one minute to 
move the ball 44 yards for an­other score. Mark Green finished it off with a 17-yard sweep, and Brown went in standing up for the two-point conversion that cut the lead to 30-22. 
The true no-names then con­tinued to keep the Irish hopes alive. Freshman Andre Jones recovered a Ted Gradel on­sides kick and gave Notre Dame the ball on its own 47. 
The final minute was heart­stopping. Brown ran for eight yards and Rice scrambled for seven to set up a first down at the Pitt 45. But Panther defen­sive end Burt Grossman sacked Rice on the next play, and Rice threw the ball out-of­bounds to stop the clock with 
The Cardinals finally found a way to contain Jeffrey Leonard, who went 0-for-4 after homering in the first four games, but could not control his teammates. This best-of-seven matchup had been billed as power-versus-speed, and the Giants had both. 
San Francisco Manager Roger Craig promised before the game that his team would add a new dimension and it showed immediately. Robby Thompson and Mitchell stole bases in the first inning and Jose Uribe stole another in the fourth after his two-run single sparked a four-run rally that made it 6-3. 
The Giants stole only 126 bases to St. Louis' 248 during the season, but swiped more in the first four innings in Game 5 than the Cardinals have stolen in the series. Meanwhile, San Francisco continued to flex its muscles. 
Mitchell singled home Thompson in the first and launched a solo home run in the third. The Giants out-homered St. Louis 205-94 during the reg­ular season and hold a 9-1 edge in this matchup. 
Third and 17. Rice threw In­complete to Green on the next play, and then dashed all Irish hopes of a comeback tie when he ran out of bounds on fourth down and didn't even throw one 
up for grabs. 
"I didn't know what down it was," Rice explained. "I knew time was running out, so I ran out of bounds to stop the clock. The next thing I knew, they said it was their ball." 
Rice was 5-of-12 passing for 125 yards. Brown, often single­covered because of frequent Panther blitzes, caught six passes for 156 yards, picked up nine yards rushing on two carries and had 61 total return yards. 
In addition to losing their first game and dropping to 3-1 on the season, the Irish have lost junior free safety Corny Southall for at least a few games. Southall strained liga­ments in his left knee in the 
on the fourth-down play and 20 seconds left. third quarter. 
..IIMIIIIIIIII......................................................... 
"It was a bitter defeat, as they all are," Holtz said. "It hurts a lot because we should have won this one,"
DO YOU NEED A GOOD SHOT 
Brown said. "They played very well, but we beat ourselves inIN THE ARM? the first half. Our mistakes cost 
GET YOUR FREE FLU SHOTS us." 
Saturdoy'a Gem• 

TUESDAV,OCTOBER13 
Notre Dame 0 0 7 15 . 22
LAFORTUNE 8:00AM-10:00PM 
Pittsburgh 14 13 0 3 • 30 
NORTH DINING HALL 11 :OOAM-1 :30PM Scoring 
PITT · Osborn 30·yd. pass from Genllla (kick

4:45PM-6:45PM 
failed) PITT · C. Heyward 1·yd. run (Williams pass from Genilla)WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER14 PITT · Genilla 2-yd. run (VanHorne kick) PITT · C. Heyward 1·yd. run (kick failed) 
LIBRARY CONCOURSE 10:00AM-10:00PM 
NO ·Rice 16-yd. run (Gradel kick) SOUTH DINING HALL 11:00AM-1:30PM NO · Banks 1·yd. run (Gradel kick) PITT · VanHorne 20·yd. FG
4:45PM-6:45PM 
NO ·Green 17-yd. run (Brown run) NO PITT First downs 15 19
THURSDAV,OCTOBER15 
Rushing attempts 38 60 LAFORTUNE 8:00AM-10:00PM Net Yards Rushlnq 103 204 Net Yards Passing 193 109
NORTH DINING HALL 11 :OOAM-1 :30PM 
Passes camp-attempted 9·25 8·13 4:45PM-6:45PM Had intercepted 1 0 Total Net Yards 296 313SERVICE IS OFFERED BY UNIVERSITY Fumbles· lost 2·1 2·1 Penalties-yards 6·59 7·53HEALTH Punts-average 5·36 .2 6·36.5 
ERVICES IN COOPERA T/ON WITH STUDENT Individual Leodera RUSHING· Notre Dame: Green 8·52; Rice 19·32;AFFAIRS Brown 2·9; Banks 3-6; Pittsburgh: C. Heyward 42· 132; Riddick 9·51: Genilla 8·21; A. Walker 1·0:AND THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT. PASSING · Notre Dame: Andrysiak 4·13·1,68; Rice 5·12·0,125; Pittsburgh: Genllla 8·13·0,109; RECEIVING ·Notre Dame: Brown 6·156; Terrel 1·25; Banks H 1; Green 1·1; Pittsburgh: C. Heyward 3·40; Tuten 3·27; Osborn 1·30; Seaman 1·12;
11111111111MIIIII......IIIII......................,...IIIIIIIII-..IIIII............. · 56.400 (c)
Attendance 

~----~--­
page 14 

Irish win tourney, dominate North Star 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 

Despite receiving a little bit 
of a scare on the tournament's 
opening day, the Notre Dame 
women's tennis team came 
away with its fifth-consecutive 
North Star Conference tourna­
ment championship. 

The Irish sent five of a pos­sible six singles players and two of a possible three doubles teams to the tournament finals. Northern Illinois, a team the Irish had shut out in a dual meet earlier this season, ac­complished the exact same feat, and the two schools were tied going into Sunday's finals. 
"We probably went into it a little too confident, and that might have been my fault," Irish coach Michele Gelfman said. "Northern Illinois had a couple of changes in their lineup, and they moved all their doubles teams around." 
Notre Dame came on strong in the finals to take the North Star title. Stephanie Tolstedt, Michelle Dasso, and Kim Pacella all defeated Northern Illinois opponents in singles finals, and the doubles teams of TolstedWacella and Natalie Illig..Cathy Bradshaw also beat foes from NIU. 
Tolstedt won the last two sets of her match after droppping the first set. In the eighth game of the final set, Tolstedt won her service game after being down, 15-40, broke NIU's Lee Ann Milne in the ninth game, then held service to win, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

Northern Illinois 15-5, 15-9, 15-4. 
Maureen Shea registered 17 kills, hitting for a .571 percentage, to lead the Irish. Junior Whitney Shewman, who played well all weekend com­ing off the bench, added 10 kills 
in the contest.  
On  Sunday,  Notre  Dame  
defeated  Minnesota  three  
games  to  one.  Three  of  the  

day's games, including two Irish wins, went to 16-14 scores before a winner was claimed. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 10-2 lead in the first game, but slacked off and allowed the Golden Gophers to rally back and tie the score at 11 and then again at 14. A Bennett ace and Shea-Waller block gave the win to the Irish. 
Game two was nearly a car­bon copy of the first outing, with the Irish jumping ahead 7-3 and the score eventually tied at 14. Notre Dame was slow reacting to Minnesota kills, and the Gophers scored several kills just inside the baseline to stay close and then pull out a 16-14 win. After bat­tling to a 3-3 tie, the Irish pulled ahead 11-4 in the third game behind the scrappy play of Shewman, Bennett and Taryn Collins. After a short Gopher rally, Collins had a smooth dump over the net, then set up 
Dasso, by contrast, cruised through the weekend, winning her singles matches by scores of 6-0, 6-0, and 6-1, 6-0. She al­most matched that success in doubles, with she and Ce Ce Cahill trouncing their oppo­nents by scores of 6-0, 6-0 and 6-1, 6-1. 
"Stephanie Tolstedt played one of the most outstanding matches I've ever seen her play," said Gelfman. "Mic­helle Dasso was so steady. Every time she stepped on the court this weekend I knew she was going to win. She really ripped through her opponents and destroyed some people." 
Cahill closed her perfect fall season with a 21-0 singles record, eliminating a pesky Meg Mulcahy of Marquette in the final round, 6-3, 6-2, after shutting down first-round op­ponent Kim Ingraffia of DePaul, 6-0, 6-0. Cahill's class­mate, fourth-seeded freshman Pacella, having to move up to the fourth seed because of Alice Lohrer's injury, still had rela­tive ease in winning her matches, 6-1, 6-0, and 6-1, 6-2. 
"Kim Pacella played out­standing," Gelfman said. "She was feeling kind of weak, and she was playing the personally who's normally number-three 
at Northern Illinois in the finals 
and still won." 

In other singles action, Illig 
placed second and Julie Sul­
livan finished in third place. 
Illig and doubles partner Cathy Bradshaw took their doubles title with two straight­set wins, 6-3, 6-1, and 6-4, 6-1. 
Shewman and Shea to complete teamed with Waller for a block the 15-8 win. and then hit home a kill to finish off Minnesota, 16-14, and three 
Game four gave the Irish an­games to one. other scare after, again, they Bennett led Notre Dame with saw a 9-3 lead slowly slip away 18 kills. Collins' hustle kept the to a 12-12 tie. Tied at 14-14, the Irish from losing those tight two teams traded side-outs games as she totalled 18 digs before freshman Amy White and 53 assists. 
FREE 32 oz. SOFT DRINK 

join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatball Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
Monday, October 12, 1987 
,::~~;~:;~~­
~ ; .'·~ 

San Francisco Giants right fielder makes a diving catch against St. Louis In the League Champion­ship Series game Saturday night. The Giants took 
NFL negotiations on blink 
AP Photo a 3-2 lead In the series with a win yesterday. A story on both playoff games yesterday Is on page 
13. 
Associated Press 

TYSONS CORNER, Va. -The owners' negotiators walked away from the bargaining table Sunday, dashing any hopes for a quick end to the nearly three-week-old NFL strike. No further talks were scheduled. 
Management blamed the breakoff on the players' con­tinuing demands for free agency. The union said it was a deliberate move to put more pressure on the players to break ranks and cross picket lines. 
"We're at a roadblock, we're mired down," said Jack Don­lan, who had negotiated with union head Gene Upshaw for a little more than five days, the longest single bargaining ses­sion of the strike. 
In fact, on a day the second round of games were played with non-strikers and replace­six-year contract -they also ment players, the two sides disagreed on just what the seemed as far apart as ever. major roadblocks are. The 28 player representatives are to meet again Monday in Upshaw claimed that the Chicago, as they did a week players had thought they could ago, to plot their course. break the stalemate on free 
agency with a proposal this Scores • p. 13, Sports Briefs week that he said complied 
with management's demand to Upshaw and Donlan not only stay within the present system. disagreed sharply on free That plan allows teams to 
agency and two other major is­make a qualifying offer with a sues -the pension plan and 20 percent raise, then match management's demand for a any offer made to a player. 

Attention Sophomores: Sophomore Committee chairperson needed for Junior Parents Weekend. Applications available in Student Activities or the Sophomore Class Office. Due 5:00pm on October 12 in Student Activities. 
'. 
STROH'S CANS 85 CENTS VODKA & GRAPEFRUIT 90 CENTS BUD LITE 16 OZ. CANS $1.30 IMPORTS $1.30 


-------·~---------------------------------------­
Monday, October 12, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Notcheci In a 
way 6 A Roman hill 7 Norwegian 
king 8 Legal 9 Relatives 
10 Total 11 Love to 
excess 12 Skin features 13 White-tailed 
birds 21 Bark paper 22 Bell-shaped 

flowers 25 Syrup base 26 Mythic birds 27 Blue-pencil 28 Lyra star 30 Tropical porch 44 Shelled fruit 55 Water plants 34 UAR word 46 This spot 58 Ardent 35 Ms Tennille 49 Take your pick 59 63A specialty 36 Has 50 Native 60 Select actors 38 New World 51 Lyric Muse 61 Swiss 39 Showed over 52 Wisdom tooth painter 41 Approximate 53 Rhone feeder 63 Equine mama 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

12 p.m. -1 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies presents a conversation on "Gorbachev's Reforms," with Prof. George Brinkley, Dir., ND Program of Soviet and Eastern European Studies. Room 112 Law School. Public weicome 
3 p.m. -5 p.m. Computer Minicourse: Managing an NS-DOS Hard Disk. Mi­crocomputer Laboratory, Computing Center. Limit 10. To register, call Betty 239-5604. Also Wednesday, October 14 
3 p.m. -5 p.m. Computer Minicourse: WriteNow (Word Processor) Room 115 Computing Center. Limit 12. To register, call Betty at 239-5604 
4:15p.m. Program in Science, Technology and Values and the Department of Sociology Lecture "Public Experiments: Relativism and Good and Evil in Science and Technology Studies," by Harry Collins, Director, Science Studies Center, University of Bath (U.K.). Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 6 p.m. PresentatiorvReception for all CAPP, MIS, nad MCC students interested in discovering career opportunities with The Traveler's Insurance Company. Upper Lounge, University Club. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Road Warrior," Directed by George Miller, Australia. Annenberg Auditorium 
8:30 p.m. Alcohol Council talk on Perceptions and Attitudes Toward Alcohol for Alcohol Awareness Week. Mongomery Theatre, LaFortune 
9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "Small Change," Directed by Francois Truffaut, France. Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Hot Pastrami Sand­ Roast Beef  
wich  Spaghetti  with  Meat  or  
Baked  Turbot  w/  Sour  Marinara Sauce  
Cream Sauce  Cheese Enchiladas  
Chicken Stir Fry  Deli Bar  
Cheese Souffle  

Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday thrQugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ACROSS 1 Entangle 6 US president 
10 Cod or Horn 14 Snlggler 15 Jal ­16 Aroma 17 AM or FM 18 Grass carpet 19 Poet time 20 Ariz. city 22 Binge 23 Cleverly 
effective 24 Ineffectual 26 Guns a motor 29 Plunder 31 i~eatsian work 32 co•lectlon of 
miSl'ellany 33 Type of chip 37 Por1ecto 40 Comp. pt. 42 Goat antelope 43 Pistil partner 45 Bat wood 47 Landers or 
Jllllan 48 Learned 50 Relative of the 
heron 51 Abu Dhabi 
e.g. 54 Turk. neighbor 56 Cellls['s aid 57 Locomotive of 
a kind 62 Gulnness 63 Opera star 64 Goat antulope 65 Scarlett's 
home 66 Mine en\rance 67 Get up 68 Crude metals 69 Ancient 
Persian 70 Maternally related 
DOWN 1 Feudal l"londman 2 Patricia of 
films 3 Alan of TV 4 Rules 




What's Happening this week: 
Movie: 
THE COLOR OF MONEY  "Economics in this Time"  
Wednesday & Thursday  by John Kenneth Galbraith  
7:00, 9:30, 12:00  Tuesday 8:00 pm  
Engineering Auditorium  Washington Hall  

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports
page 16 Monday, October 12, 1987 
Pitt upsets Irish with big 

Braxston Banks crosses the goal line early In the fourth quarter of Notre Dame's 30-22 loss to Pit­tsburgh on Saturday. Marty Strasen's game story 
Rice thrust into QB limelight 
By PETE GEGEN "It kind of surprised me," arm. Assistant Sports Editor said Rice. "But that's my job. At the same time Rice cannot The other guys gave me confi­be expected to turn Notre 
When Tony Rice lined up be­dence at halftime." Dame into an Oklahoma over­hind center at the beginning of Rice sparked the offense into night. After sitting out fooball the second half, nobody but the gear. He completed 5-of-12 last season, Rice has hardly team realized that he would be passses for 125 yards and, with any experience on the college the starting quarterback for a new emphasis on the option field. the rest of the year. game, rushed the ball19 times. Most of the drives Rice led 
Senior starter Terry With the Pitt defense penetrat­exhibited this contrast. In his Andrysiak had to be helped off ing the backfield, Rice usually first drive of the third quarter, the field after being hit on the kept the ball on the option, Rice hit Tim Brown with a 25­last play of the first half. It ap­breaking tackles and dancing yard pass, but the drive stalled peared at first that Andrysiak around defenders. soon after. had just been shaken up on the "We had to (change the of­On Notre Dame's second hit, but a few minutes into the fense for Rice) to some ex­drive Rice had trouble reading third quarter it was learned tent," said Holtz. "We'll prob­the pass coverage, and a pass that Andrysiak had suffered a ably have to continue to do intended for Reggie Ward al­broken right collarbone on the that." most turned into a touchdown play, ending his season. As Pitt head coach Mike Got­for Pitt cornerback Gary Rich­
So Rice entered the game not tfried noted, it was a different ard. But Rice came back for just for one series, as he had game with Rice at quarter­three long gains on the ground done against Michigan State back. Like Jamelle Hollieway and a 25-yard completion to Pat and Purdue. He was now the of Oklahoma, Rice is danger­
see RICE, page 11
leader of the offense. ous with both his feet and his 
Volleyball wins two, drops one 
By BRIAN O'GARA of junior Zanette Bennett. The game and marathon match be­Sports Writer Wildcats fought back to close hind nine straight points and the gap to 10-7, but their .030 several unforced Irish hitting 
They came away with two hjtting percentage allowed the errors. The final clip was a con­wins in three matches, but the Irish to win the first game vincing 15-5. big one got away. The second game was a bat­Kathy Cunningham led Notre 
After dropping a near-upset tle of ties, finding the two Dame with 23 kills and 24 digs, to Kentucky Friday night and teams knotted at four, five and keeping several Irish rallies sweeping Northern Illinois Sat­seven until the Wildcats found alive with kills down the urday, the Notre Dame volley­openings in the Notre Dame sideline. However the sopho­ball team held off a pesky Min­defense to pull away, 15-10, and more had trouble with her nesota team Sunday afternoon, even the match..Kentucky's serves, committing six service 16-14, 14-16, 15-8, 16-14. momentum continued in game errors. Mary Kay Waller and 
Despite coming away with three, as the Wildcats out­Zanette Bennett had five blocks 
the win on Sunday, the Irish witted the Irish and contin­each. may have lost outside hitter uously tipped the ball over and "We blew another one," said Kathy Cunningham for two or around Notre Dame blockers Head Coach Art Lambert, 
more weeks with a separated and pulled away for a 15-9 vic­whose 16-4 team has lost three shoulder. The sophomore went tory. games to Top 20 teams. down after attempting a dig With their backs to the wall, "Kentucky came off the bus early in the third game and the Irish scrapped for every from tough road trip and it most likely will not play in the loose ball in the evening's showed in the first game," con­team's October break road trip fourth game, broke an 8-8 tie tinued Lambert. "After that, on which she will travel. and forced a fifth game with a they adjusted. We weren't 
On Friday night, the Irish 15-11 win. playing with our heads. We had had the upset in mind against Looking rejuvenated and in­them doing what we wanted the ninth-ranked Wildcats after spiring the crowd of 583, Notre them to do, but we couldn't con­winning the opening game, 15-Dame was one game away vert that to points or sideouts." 
9. Notre Dame jumped out to from perhaps the biggest win Notre Dame had an easier 
first half, 30-22 
Second-half comeback not enough for a win 
By MARTY STRASEN Panther quarterback Sal Assistant Sports Editor Genilla capped a 16-play, 74­yard drive with a bootleg score 
PITTSBURGH Notre from two yards out. Dame's "No-Name Defense" "We had too many guys was pretty well-known by the trying to make every play," end of the first half of Saturday said Irish inside linebacker night's game at Pitt Stadium. Wes Pritchett. "Every guy was 
That's not because the no­probably guilty of that -being names played well in the first over-aggressive. When we half of Pittsburgh's shocking went back to technique and fun­30-22 upset of the fourth-ranked damentals, we made the Irish. They didn't. plays." 
But the Notre Dame defense Genilla was 8-of-13 for 109 grabbed the limelight, spend­yards in the air. Heyward, ing more than 22 minutes on meanwhile, carried the ball a the field and giving up 27 un­school-record 42 times for 132 answered points to a virtually yards, and passed runners on mistake-free Panther offense the all-time Pitt rushing list al­in the first half. most as easily as he passed 
That deficit was too much to would-be tacklers. He moved overcome even for an inspired from seventh to fourth in Pan­second-half Irish comeback at­ther history in his sixth­tempt, led by sophomore quar­straight 100-yard game. terback Tony Rice, who "Genilla did a good job replaced senior Terry scrambling," Notre Dame Andrysiak at halftime. head coach Lou Holtz said. 
Andrysiak broke his right "Give Pitt credit. They con­collarbone with 19 seconds left trolled the ball and made a lot in the first half, and is out for of critical third-down plays in the rest of the season. the first half. It was unbeliev­
"That was just extremely able." poor tackling," Irish defensive But thanks to some late­coordinator and former Pan­game fireworks from the kind ther coach Foge Fazio said. of play Notre Dame fans have "That's just fundamentals, and grown accustomed to this we played lousy fundamental season, it wasn't over yet.defense in the first half." Rice stepped into the game
Panther running back Craig in the second half and the Irish Heyward took advantage of the were a different team. The defense's two-hand-touch ap­sophomore completed a 10­
proach to tackling and scored play, 80-yard drive with a nifty a pair of first-half touchdowns. 16-yard touchdown run on The Irish offense, meanwhile, Notre Dame's second posses­turned the ball over twice and sion of the half, making the managed only two first downs score 27-7. 
in the half. "I thought at halftime that 
Both first-quarter Irish turn­we had a chance to win," Holtz overs were converted into Pan­said. "I felt, if we were going ther scores. Heyward's first to come back and win, we touchdown followed Gary would have to score on our Richard's interception of an kicking game and have our underthrown Andrysiak pass. defense set up a touchdown." Irish flanker Tim Brown Enter freshman Todd Lyght. fumbled after a 39-yard pass 
see BLOCK, page 13

play later in the frame, and 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
an 8-0 lead behind Kentucky in its history. Kentucky had an­time on Saturday, defeating 
Zanette Bennett sends a kill over the net In Notre Dame's cll)se
miscues and an aggressive of­other idea, and, with the game 
loss to ninth-ranked Kentucky on Friday night. Brian O'Gara covers 
fensive attack led by the kills tied at three, ran away with the see IRISH, page 14 
the weekend volleyball action In his story at left. 


