
-------~--~---~------~~ 
l'~' ; I ; ( .~o. 
' in Generations -page 11 
VOL XXI NO 114 
FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mal!··s 

PTL founder may face dismissal from church 
Associated Press 
FORT MILL, S.C. -The PTL's new leaders said Thursday that Jim Bakker and his wife would stay on the payroll but must not be active in the ministry, while Bakker's church said he might face dismissal for "moral failure" in a sexual liaison seven years ago. 
"The body of Christ is too valuable to be a party to bickering and conflict,'' the Rev. Jerry Falwell said after the new PTL board held its first meeting in an attempt to restore harmony after the tumultuous disclosures of recent days. "We are determined that Satan will not have a field day." 
Falwell said the board had agreed to an independent audit of PTL's finances and also would consider taking out a $50 million loan from an unidentified source in Great Britain to consolidate its debts. 
Meanwhile, the woman with whom Bakker had the encounter told reporters she was "deeply concerned" that churchgoers everywhere should understand the current scandal "has no reflection upon the Lord.'' 
"I don't want people under the im.,., pression this goes on everywhere. ·It does not go on everywhere," Jessica Hahn said outside her West Babylon, N.Y., home. 
Earlier Thursday, a newspaper re­ported that PTL lawyers had agreed two years ago to pay Ms. Hahn and her representatives $265,000, far more than the $115,000 initially reported. 
Bakker resigned as head of the tele­vision ministry last week, saying he had been blackmailed over the liaison and that there was a "diabolical plot" to take over the 500,000-member PTL. 
Probe continues investigation of Philly 'cellar of horrors' 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A man accused of keeping half-naked women chained in his secret cellar of horrors for torture, rape and killing, and of stock­piling human limbs in a freezer was ordered held without bond Thursday. 
Only when a woman went to police Wednesday, saying she had escaped from the run­down row house in north Philadelphia, did police begin to suspect something foul was in the cellar of Gary Heidnik, a 43-year-old licensed practi­cal nurse. 
Heidnik was arrested after police went to the house and found three young women, naked from the waist down, chained in the basement. They also found 24 pounds of human limbs in a freezer and other body parts in the kitchen, police said. 
By day's end, police said they found the body of a wo­man in remote woods in south­ern New Jersey and arrested a second suspect, Cyril Brown, a sometime occupant of the house. Brown was charged with murdering two women. 

The survivors, ages 18 to 24, spoke of torture and rape, of a skeletal head in a cooking pot and a human rib cage in an oven, of two women who died in captivity, one electrocuted in a watery pit, one killed in a fall. 
"He handcuffed me to a pipe and said nothing would happen to me if I cooperated," said Lisa Thomas, 19, one of the women found in Heidnik' s basement. 
"'Just trust me,' he said," Ms. Thomas told the Philadel­phia Daily News from her hospital room. "Then he took the lid off a hole and two girls came out." 
One of the three women was in stable condition Thursday at Episcopal Hospital, where she was being treated for dehydration, malnutrition and sexual abuse. Ms. Thomas, who spent the night at the hospital, and another woman had been treated and released, hospital spokesman Anthony Cirillo said. 
''We do not believe there is any evidence of blackmail," the Rev. G. Raymond Carlson, general superin­tendent of the Assemblies of God, said in a statement at a news conference at church headquarters in Springfield, Mo. 
"To the contrary, the evidence seems to indicate that effort and money have been expended to cover moral failure. We are deeply sorry to have to say this. We grieve for the impact all this has had upon the entire Christian commu­nity." 
Carlson said evidence gathered by the presbyters will be sent to the North Carolina Presbytery, which has juris­diction over the South Carolina-based PTL. 
"The complete procedure must and will be followed to determine whether resignation or dismissal is in order," Carlson said. 
Bakker has offered his resignation to the Assemblies of God, his 2-million­member Pentecostal denomination, but no action has been taken. 
The new PTL board agreed at its meeting in Fort Mill, S.C., to have a 
_ committee independently audit P"J:L's finances and determine whether any criminal acts· were involv-ed.in.,the.al-~"'· leged blackmail scheme. A financial statement distributed by Falwell showed PTL assets of $172 mil­lion and total current liabilities of $42.1 million. Other long-term debt was listed at $28.2 million. The $50 million loan would con­solidate the ministry's short-term debts into a long-term obligation, he said. "In the last 12 weeks, particularly the 
see PREACHER, page 6 

Ms. Thomas said she had eaten nothing but dog food, dog biscuits and water since Heidnik lured her to his house three days before Christmas with a flashy car and offers of money for clothes and res­taurants. 
She said she slept in the dirt at the bottom of the pit wearing only a shirt, but said her captor occasionally enter­tained her and the others. "He'd take us upstairs and chain us to the bannister and show us videos . . . regular movies, like 'Splash,' " Ms. Thomas said. 
Neighbors said they had complained of foul odors and heard loud music coming from Heidnik's house. Police said they had no record of the reports but were investigat­ing. 
"It smelled terrible -like someone left a big piece of steak in the fire," said Doris Zibulka, 32, his next door neighbor. "I called the police and an officer came over. The music was playing and 
see HORRORS, page 6 

On the ball 
Two students in the center of the during a sunny afternoon on the quad. 
Memorial enjoy 
a peaceful moment 



Judge elected as new 
Judicial Coordinator 
By ROB HENNIG 
Copy Editor 
Brendan Judge, co-chairman of the Keenan Judicial Board, was unanimously elected Judi­cial Coordinator for the next academic year. 
"Brandon has the advantage . . . that his J -board has been active in his dorm," current Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron said. 
"He's done a lot of good work on the J-Council this year. He'll be a good leader and get the job done. 
"I think the momentum is going to make Judicial Council far better next year," Cintron added. 
Judge said he has several ideas for next year. 
"I'd like to meet each rector personally and discuss the role of the J -board in his dorm,'' Judge said. 
In addition, Judge indicated he would consider having Judi­cial Council run elections. "I wouldn't mind taking on elec­tions if the council were behind me, but that, of course, would come only after several discus­sions with the new administra­tion," Judge said.' 
Cintron, however, voiced op­position to running elections. "I don't feel J-Council should have to do it," Cintron said. 
"I don't want to see the J­Council running the election as OBUD did. I think there needs to be a Committee established in student government,'' Cintron added. 
Keenan Board Co-Chairman Kevin Gleason said supervis­ing elections would not be that much of a new burden. "It's not that big of a job," Gleason said. 
Cintron was chairwoman of the committee that supervised 
class  officer  elections  after  
Ombudsman  withdrew  from  
governing elections.  

In other business, the Council discussed the reaction of last meeting's rector presentation on the effective use of J-boards. 
"I got some really positive feedback from the rectors who did go," Cintron said. 

~ 
f 
The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 2 
In Brief 
Notre Dame students Kathleen McKernan, Michelle Lyn LaRose, and Randall David Kron were named finalists in the Thomas R. Keating Scholarship Competition, sponsored by the School of Journalism at Indiana University, Purdue University at Indianapolis, the Indianapolis Press Club and Sigma Delta Chi. Each finalist is eligible for a $1000 scholarship. The winners will be chosen based on previously entered feature stories and the results of a writing contest. The contest, open to all sophomores and juniors atteitding college in Indiana, will be held April 4 in Indianapolis. -The Observer 
The LaFortune Student Center, renovated and expanded at a cost of $5 million, will be dedicated Saturday with a Mass, tours, a luncheon and a dedication dinner. Guests of Notre Dame will be members of the LaFortune family of Tulsa, Oklahoma, who have underwritten a major portion of the project, which saw the renovation of 45,000 feet of existing space and 17,000 feet added to the structure. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Special parking restrictions will be enforced beginning Tuesday, March 31 to make courts available for the Bookstore Basketball XVI Tournment Games. Parking is prohibited in the Bookstore Lot after 3:30p.m. on weekdays and after 1:00 p.m. on weekends. The Lyons Court and Stepan Court Lots will be closed to parking from March 31 to April 24 and parking is prohibited at all times. Vehicles violating these restrictions will be towed away at owners expense. -The Observer 
"The Celtic Golden Age Revisited" is the title of a lecture to be given by David Dumville of Cambridge University today at 3 p.m. in room 715 of the Memorial Library. The lecture is sponsored by the Medieval Institute. -The Observer 
AttentionFranco-domers TherewillbeaFrench 
Mass on Sunday at 7 p.m. in Alumni Hall. All francophiles 
are welcome. Fr. Andre Leveille will be the celebrant. ­
The Observer 
The NROTC Dining In will be held Saturday at the South Dining Hall. Festivities will begin with a recep­tion in the faculty dining room at 7 p.m., followed by dinner at 8 p.m. The Midshipmen are proud to host Vice Admiral Bruce DeMars of the United States Navy, as guest of honor and principal speaker. -The Observer 
An Tostal general committee members must attend the general committee meeting on Sunday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Committee members are asked to bring shirt money. -The Observer 
Are you a Non-Computer Person seeking information about computer-related careers? If so, there will be a presentation at 6:30p.m. on Monday in the Student Affairs conference room on this topic. Interested people should call Counseling and Career Development at 4565 to register. -The Observer 

Weather 
Quack! Quack! Great day for ducklings with a 50 percent chance of light rain. High around 50, dropping to upper 30s at night. Saturday is for the birds as well, cloudy with 30 percent chance of rain. High again around 50. ­Associated Press 



Viewpoint Layout.. ......... Ann Biddlecom
Design Editor ...................... Rob Luxem 
Viewpoint Quote ..................Tom Darrow
Design Assistant ............. Tom Schiesser 
Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck
Typesetters............ . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton 
Accent Layout................ Ann Biddlecom
........................................ Chris Reardon 
Typists ............................... Esther Ivory
News Editor .. .................... Regis Coccia 
ND Day Editor .................. Susan Coene 
Copy Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning 
Ad Design............... Catherine Ramsden 
Sports Copy Editor.. ........... . Pete Gegen 
Photographer ..................... Susan Coene 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .......................... . .. .. ... . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. Aretha O'Sullivan 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile Oblerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The O~er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tlw Ob.erver is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Letters to the Editor show the humor in life 
I guess I have come to expect it. 
In my position as Viewpoint Editor, I receive many letters each week. Some are serious, some are funny; some deal with politics, some deal with campus events. And most of these letters appear everyday on the Viewpoint page. 
But, there's also a story behind some of the letters that never make it to print. These are the mysterious letters that rest in a file in the back of my desk. Surprisingly, most letters that comprise this collection are not from angry stu­dents or teachers. Most, but not all, come from outside our immediate community. 
The first letter that tops my list of favorites was submitted by an anonymous parent of a Notre Dame student. The parent was upset be­cause when she visited the campus and walked into her daughter's room, she was shocked to find her daughter's roommate in bed with her boyfriend. 
The parent felt that by boys being in girls' rooms a message was being sent to the com­munity at large; ''The message you send by demanding (boys being allowed in girls' bedrooms) is 1. you don't respect the laws of God or the Catholic Church and/or 2. you have no hormones.'' 
But this situation, which was quite upsetting to the parent, became quite funny after the sit­uation was described in print. 
On the other hand, some letters are a little more creative. For instance, I have been in contact with a person who claimed to be God and a person who claimed to know the devil. 
When reading the many letters from God, I noticed that each starts out in the same way: "My Dear Sir: As Almighty God, I greet you." 
Now, I knew that with my job, I would be in contact with some important people at the Uni­versity and around the country, but I never expected to receive letters from the Big Guy above. 
In writing me, God told me some really per­sonal details about his life here on Earth. He told me that I was not the only one who he had been in contact with. He had also written much of humanity "which consist(s) mainly of News­paper Editors and Publishers.'' 
In another letter, God explained that his "Son is now on Social Security, with a limited in­come." He stated that his Son's income con­sisted mainly of ''a small pension check of $207.43 per month, plus His Social Security benefit of $489.00 per month." 
I was surprised that God became so intimate 
Chris Murphy 

..·•· ....... '·I
\~· 
Viewpoint Editor 
tiiiiiC -. ·~ 


with His financial details. Most earthly people like to keep the salaries they make to them­selves, but God was different. He apparently had nothing to hold back. 
I really thought I was in good standing with God since none of my friends had ever received letters from Him. I felt pretty good about life. After all, it's not every day when someone gets a letter from God. 
But, soon my thoughts would change. After God's letter, I got a letter from a man who personally knew the Devil and wrote me to tell me about it. 
He said that "people would never believe me when I told them about Lucifer." The author was concerned because Lucifer told him he had a low opinion of the voters in the United States. He told me that he needed my help in spreading the word that "the U.S. voters don't have a chance to keep from going to hell." I guess you can say that I was surprised to find myself weighted with the fate of mankind on my shoulders. 
But, the devil gave me a way out. By writing this column, and alerting you to this, I think I no longer have to feel the weight of responsi­bility that the devil left me. 

SObering Advice·.: 

• 

can save alife \ 
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive 
4 

...................................................... 


-In Concert· -~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~



Neil Diamond ~ 
t ~

Wednesday April 29th ~ 
8:00 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $17.50 & $15.00 t 
t ~ 

Ticket sale for NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS will take place this Monday, 9:00 am ~ at the ticket windows located at gate 3 ~ of the ACC (Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of ~ four (4) tickets per student. VALID STUDENT ~ 
I.D. REQUIRED. No line may form before """ 
6:00 am. (Ticket sale for the public will ~ take place at gate 1 0 of the ACC-Arena Dorne). ~ 
.....~····················~······..······............... 
The Observer 
Friday, March 27, 1987-page 3 

'Consumer approach' to sexuality erodes family life, says professor 

By CATHY STACY 
Assistant News Editor 
Artificial reproduction has introduced a "consumer ap­proach to sexuality and mar­riage" which has eroded the notion of fatherhood and as­saulted the rights of the family, said Dr. Donald DeMarco in his lecture last evening on the eth­ical issue of high tech parent­ing. 
"Parenthood becomes in­creasingly arbitrary and ceases to be an aspect of iden­tity...but one that you can pur­chase for a price," he said. Though he did not wish "to create the impression that technology is bad,'' DeMarco presented a critical evaluation of the five current forms of technological parenthood, in­cluding artificial insemination, test tube babies, embryonic transfer from one woman to an­other, extracorporeal gestation and surrogate motherhood. 
DeMarco said fatherhood be­comes tenuous and hypotheti­cal and mothers are viewed as the victims of pregnancy, citing examples of women who have used surrogate mother­hood to prevent the interuption of their careers. "(People) want a commercial selection, the joy without the responsibil­ity and the pleasure without the pain. They exclude marriage, sexual intercourse, genes, gestation and childbearing and still want to be parents." 
DeMarco also questioned the vulnerable position we place ourselves in if ''we accept un­critically what we are given from the medical world'' which hold radically different opinions among themselves. From the very first case of ar­tificial insemination in 1884, doctors have viewed the process as "ethereal" as well as "rape." 
Test tube babies represent "a form of reductionism at its very worst -reducing the entire human being (with which one creates) to the smallest parts,'' he said. The gametes become the parents rather than the mother and father who should "want to love so emphatically that they say we are husband and wife and we are the ones 

who had this child." 
DeMarco finds this threat to 

the personal reality of mother 
and father an "assault on the 
integrity of life, marriage and 
the family." In the case of sur­
rogate mothers, technology is 
also "exploitive," and the 
"real mother" is not the wo­
man who has carried the child 
for nine months, but the woman 
"who is married to a man who 
contributes $10,000 so that she 
can be known as the mother.'' 
DeMarco said this inability 

to claim authorship is consid­
ered fraud in education and 
business, and it should be con-. 
sidered even more of a fraud 
within the context of marriage 
and family. 
DeMarco also said it was 

"too bad" that most people who 
responded to a recent poll re­
garding the Baby M case 
believed that the Stearns 
should be awarded custody of 
the child because of their better 
financial position. Surrogate 
mother Mary Beth Whitehead, 
whom they originally believed 
to be the ideal candidate, 
developed a bond "incarnate 
with motherhood" that could 
not be supressed by any "tech­
nological rhetoric or brain­
washing," said DeMarco. 
As Baby M celebrates her 

first birthday today, she does 
so without a real name, identity 
or home. The court decision 
that will decide who her 
"parents" are is scheduled for 
March 30. 
"Technology can be used to make parents but not mothers and fathers," said DeMarco. Mothers and fathers are not simply qualified by biology, he said, but become persons as the result· of "great personal ef­fort.'' Technoloy has created a "clash between rational, im­patient plans and natural processes.'' 
DeMarco, who is a professor of philosophy at St. Jerome's College in Ontario, will give an­other lecture titled ''Abortion and Compassion" on March 28 at 1 p.m. in the Haggar College Center of Saint Mary's College. This lecture will be proceeded by a showing of the film ''Silent Scream." 
DeMarco's lectures are sposored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Group, the Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Ius Vitea, and the Federalist SoCiety. 
1) Platoon (A) 
2:15 4:45 7:15 9:45 
2) Tin Men (R) 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:25 
3) Lethal Weapon (R) 
2:05 4:30 7:00 9:30 

The Observer 
Security Beat 
Wednesday 
11:20 a.m. -An Engineering Professor reported the theft of two computer discs from his office. The victim stated his loss to be $300. 
1:39 p.m. -A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of a textbook that was removed from his backpack in the lobby of South Dining Hall. Replacement cost of the book is $40. 
3:45p.m. -Security is inves­tigating a hit and run acci­dent that occurred in the D2 parking lot.. The victim, a resident of Flanner Hall, es­timates the damage to his vehicle at approximately $100. 
4:30p.m. -A University em­ployee reported that $50 in cash was removed from her desk drawer sometime last weekend. 
5:45 p.m. -An Elkhart resi­dent reported some van­dalism done to his vehicle while he was attending a function inside the ACC. The victim estimated the damage at $111 and a suspect has been indentified. 
10:35 and 10:40 p.m. -Two female students reported, within five minutes of one another, a male white sub­ject indecently exposing himself between Pasquerilla West and the Memorial Li­brary. The subject is des­cribed as being approxi­mately 5ft. 10 inches, medium build, greyAvhite hair with receding hairline, wearing a grey parka jacket, blue jeans. Subject was said to be approxi­mately 35 years old. Anyone having any knowledge of this subject, please contact Security. 
11:45 p.m. -An Alumni Hall resident reported his back­pack stolen from the lobby of the South Dining Hall. However, prior to the report, the backpack was recovered. Missing from the bag were two textbooks and a calculator. Victim esti­mated his loss at $120. 
Thursday 
10:46 a.m. -A Morrissey res­ident reported that his wal­let was taken from inside his backpack in the lobby of South Dining Hall. Loss to the victim was $18. 


Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 4 
ALUMNI

Ill SENIOR 



::1: 
1­


U.S Marine arrested as spy suspect draws additional espionage charges 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Marine Corps has brought additional charges against Sgt. Clayton Lonetree, the first of two Marine security guards ar­rested on suspicion of spying while working at the U.S. Em­bassy in Moscow, Pentagon sources said Thursday. 
The sources, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, said the decision to add five additional charges to the 19 counts already pending had been prompted by the 
recent arrest of another guard, Cpl. Arnold Bracy. 
The sources declined to dis­cuss the specific allegations un­derlying the new charges. But they said the charges included another count of espionage; two counts of conspiracy to commit espionage, and two counts of "espionage-related" general misconduct charges. 
The new count of espionage brings to two the number of such charges pending against the 25-year-old Lonetree. Un­der the Uniform Code of Mili­tary Justice, a conviction on an espionage count carries a max­imum penalty of death. 
The sources said the new charges were ''directly related to the surfacing of Bracy," a 21-year-old corporal who worked with Lonetree in Mos­cow for roughly eight months in 1985 and 1986. 
According to the sources, military and State Department investigators now suspect that Bracy and Lonetree, working together, may have provided Soviet agents access to the Moscow embassy during after­work hours. It appears there were times when the two men were paired as the only guards at the embassy, one source ex­plained 
The Marine Corps said it ar­rested Bracy last week at the Marine base at Twentynine Palms, Calif., on the basis of information developed in its continuing probe of Lonetree. 
The sources said Thursday they expected Bracy to appear before a military magistrate on Friday who would decide whe­ther he should remain in cus­tody pending the start of an in­vestigation simijar to a civilian grand jury probe. 

Lonetree had already been accused of passing to the Rus­sians the names and photographs of American intel­ligence agents attached to the Moscow embassy's staff. He also had been accused of pro­viding the Soviets with descrip­tions of floor plans and office assignments for the embassies in Moscow and Vienna. 
The sources also said both Bracy and Lonetree became in­volved sexually with Soviet wo­men who were employed at the embassy, which in turn al­legedly led to their recruitment by Soviet agents. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
~ Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
~ THIS WEEIKSeATesT"iiE SNITE 
Individual admission: $1.50 
Purple Rose of Cairo (1985) Friday, March 27 at 7:30 & 9:30pm, Snite Cecelia (Mia Farrow), a dreamy-eyed, hopelessly inept Depression-era waitress escapes from her dreary existence and brutish husband (Danny Aiello) by spending every free moment at the movies. Purple Rose charts the unusual romance that develops when one day the dashing star of the latest matinee attraction steps off the screen and into Cecelia's life. 
The Big Sleep(l946) Monday, March 30 at 7 pm, Snite 
Bogart and Bacall's screen chemistry is showcase•.! in the bristling dialogue of this adaptation of Raymond Chandler's hard-boiled classic. Bogart is perhaps the very best of the many screen Philip Marlowes. 
Dangerous (1935) Monday, March 30 at 9 pm, Snite 
Bette Davis, playing a former star star on the skids, is rehabilitated by Franchot Tone in a good 
but syrupy tale in which Davis gives an Oscar-winning performance. 
Love and Death (1975) Tuesday, March 31 at 7:30pm, Snite Allen writes, directs and stars in this very funny film about a militant coward in the land of War and Peace. This spoof of foreign films and Russian Literature won applause from critics despite the resemblance of its plot to Bob Hope's Monsieur &aucaire. 
·All ftlms are screened in the Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 

Choose wedding andgraduation pieces ~ from ou: unique stock ~ ti§ or desLgn your OWn m 
CUSTOM DESIGN"'DIAMONDS"'GEMS*GOLDSMITH 129 Dlxleway South, Suite C 277-1655 M 
Portage Realty ~ldg., Roseland In walking distance from campus Across from the Great Wall 


--
~-~ ~·---· -~ ----~-----~~ 
--~--­

Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 5
The Observer 
Special Olympics volunteers to be trained for special work 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -The In­ternational Special Olympics Committee, having recruited 15,000 volunteers to staff the 1987 summer games, now faces the task of training the volun­teers to work with mentally handicapped athletes. 
Very few volunteers have worked with handicapped youths, and most ask for help in learning how, said Dr. Bonnie Raine, a director at a South Bend sheltered workshop and a Special Olympics volun­teer. 
The key simply is learning to recognize the abilities of the competitors, despite their handicaps, Raine said Friday. "That's what these games are all about. They're a showcase for individual ability," she said. 
"We're showing them what the mentally handicapped can do, not what they cannot do," 
The Observer 
The news department is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
Questions should be directed to Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at the Observer office (239-5313). Applications are due Sunday by 5 p.m. 
••• " \~ ~~ 
b,'b-~ 
•• \~~ A~

• ~~~ ~,,9 ... 
+--ft..~~~ ~e6.
+~~ e\'lf. • 1'\~ 


:~?;.~~ 
: Love, 
+ 
Mom, Dad. 

+ 
& Little Sis 






~•••••••••••••••••; 
FOR SALE BY 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 

AUTOS 

79 Pontiac Bonneville AM'FM Cassette, 5spd. Loaded. $6700 
81 Buick Park Ave. Loaded. $5000 
83 Ford Escort, AM+M Cassette, 4spd. Clean. $3000 
84 Renant K Wagon Good condition. $4900 
84 Ford Escort, AM Radio, Nice. $3650 

86 Nissan Pulsar, AM+M Cassette, 5spd. $7670 
Now on display at the Main Office on 19033 Douglas Road. Or Call Robert Outly for more information at 239-5646. 
said Timothy Dillon, director of games operations. 
Special Olympics is produc­ing a videotape introduction featuring television actor and writer James Troesh. The 30­year-old Troesh, of Hacienda Heights, Calif., was paralyzed from the neck down at 14 when he was shocked while installing a rooftop antenna. 
Raine recruited Troesh, a family friend, to produce the tape in an effort to close the gap between volunteers and the handicapped athletes. 
Volunteers will watch the tape before serving in the games to be held in late July on the campuses of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Troesh hopes volunteers who watch the tape will recognize him from his ap­pearances in episodes of the television show "Highway to Heaven," and listen to his mes­sage. 
TRUCKS 
85 Chevy Astra Cargo Van, Standard Options $8000 
85 Ford Pickup, 5th Wheel 4spd, Dual Tanks, Trailer Hitch & Brakes. $7670 
MOTORCYCLE 
84 Harley Davidson, Purple, Great Shape. $3000 


Dr. Bonnie Raine (left) and actor James try to recruit volunteers for the Special Olym­Troesh, who is paralyzed from the waist down, pies this summer. 
College Briefs 
Students at all­female Wheaton College (MA) are mobilizing to op­pose preliminary board of trustree decision to admit male students in the fall of 1988. The board's decision, made in response to declining enrollment at the 152-year-old college, was announced after winter break, and was met with much opposition. Student protests have included letter writing, sign carrying, and the creation of a slogan, "Bet­ter dead than coed." The board will make a final deci­sion in May. -The Observer 
Students at Yale University erected a sym­bolic Soviet Gulag in front of the administration building. The structure, made of wood and wire and containing tombstones symbolizing vic­tims of Soviet oppression, was built by the Committee for Freedom to coincide with the broadcast of ABC's contro­versial m1mseries "Amerika." -The Observer 
65 Elcona 
(2 Bedroom) 
$3000 

Can been seen 
only by appointment 
Sh~ma Tau Gamma, a fraternity at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, awards monetary prizes to its members earning GPA's above 3.0 and to the student with the most improved grades. If chapter members as a whole improve their cumulative grade point average, each will receive $10 · for each one-tenth of a point increase. -The Observer 
Penn State University has been named in a lawsuit involving a former student whho became a paraplegic after suffering injuries in an alcohol-related car crash two years ago. The suit also stated that the Sigma Psi Delta fraternity at the Altoona campus served alcohol to the student, who was a freshman at the time. -The Observer 
8:00 a.m. wake-up calls in Wayne State College dorms were necessary when an elec­trical failure left the building in total darkness. Students 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
Sunshine Promotions Presents 


HUEY LEWIS 
and The News Sunday April 5 
7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC Reserved seats: $16.50 
Tickets available at the ACC Gate 1 0 Box Office or charge by phone (219) 239-7356 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
· 

with early classes had to be awakened by resident assis­tants. No serious problems were reported, but some stu­dents complained because they could not use hair dryers or curling irons. -The Obser­ver 
"Strawberry Farm" is a computer game simulat­ing the operation of a 28-acre strawberry farm in southern Minnesota. Developed for a 
U. of Minnesota small fruits class, the game requires stu­dents to make decisions in­volving crop care, the hiring of employees, sales and mar­keting. -The Observer 
Over 2,000 boxes of gelatin were used for a fund­raiser wrestling contest spon­sored by the U. of Tennessee­Chattanooga's Interfraternity Council. The competition, called "Wello Weslin'," consisted of 30 three-minute matches. Each match featured two females and one male. -The Observer The Observer 

AP Photo 
Japanese sumo wrestler Junichi Mari ready to take a crack at his breakfast of two-dozen eggs at the Harlow Moat Hotel in Essex, England. Mari is making a flim on the martial arts with three other wrestlers who also like to start their morning right. 
Horrors 
continuedfrom page 1 
(Heidnik) didn't answer the door so we looked in the win­dows." 
Soon, she said, Heidnik came out and joked about the odor. 
"He said, 'What, do I smell? I just burned a piece of meat, that's all.' So, the policeman said, 'All right ... as long as you are all right,' " Ms. Zibulka said. 


Preacher 
continuedfrom page 1 
last seven days, there has been no loss of support or fallout," Falwell said. "We anticipate no financial crisis for this institu­tion. This institution is not in critical condition." 
Falwell said the independent audit by a private accounting firm will not include examina­tion of Bakker's personal finances. The Bakkers repor­tedly have amassed at least $700,000 worth of real estate and cars. 
Falwell said the board felt strongly that the Bakkers should continue to draw salaries and benefits. 
"This ministry would not be here if it not for Jim and Tammy Bakker. It would not be Christian to cut off the life supply to the couple respon­sible for this ministry," he said. 
Falwell refused to say how 
much Bakker and his wife 
would earn. Their combined 
salaries were $72,800 in 1979, 
the last year the ministry 
revealed how much the evan­
gelists were paid. 
If Bakker tried to retake the 
presidency of the group, Fal­
well said, "the credibility prob­
lem that we now have would be 
an impossible challenge for us 
and we (the new board) very 
Application Deadline: April .3 

: 288-8348 HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER :
likely would step aside." ............................................................. " ................................................................. c 
The Observer 

The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Resume and personal statement ore due by Friday, 
March 27 at 5 p.m. Questions should be directed to 
Marilyn Benchik at 284-5365or 239-5313. 


Student Activities Board is now accepting applications for 


IRISH GARDENS AND ADWORKS 
(Store Manager) 
Pick up at 2nd floor LaFortune 

Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 6 
Food aid politics discussed by panel 
By MARGARET PFEIL 
News Staff 

A panel discussion on the politics of famine assistance to Ethiopia was featured in the fourth lecture in the Spring se­ries on Ethics and Foreign Policy Thursday night at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
Jason Clay, director of Re­search for Cultural Survival, charged the Ethiopian govern­ment with politicizing famine assistance given primarily from western nongovernmen­tal and private voluntary or­ganizations. 
Passively and actively, Clay said, these agencies col­laborated with the government in extending the famine to pre­viously self -sufficient areas by reinforcing the conditions that had caused the famine. 
The most significant causes of the famine were not drought or lack of food, according to Clay, rather they were govern­ment policies such as resettle­ment and villagization. He said, in 1985, at the height of the famine, Ethiopia tripled their foreign currency reserve and exported 200,000 head of livestock. 
In response, Msgr. Robert Coli, executive director of the Interfaith Higher Appeal, dis­agreed with Clay and said the causes of the famine were not simply political, but were rooted in environmental degradation, overpopulation and war. 
Fred Cuny, the chairman of Intertect, a consulting firm specializing is the manage­ment of emergency relief, sup­ported Coil's position that the famine was not solely due to political causes. 
"There is no such thing as apolitical aid,'' Cuny said to the audience of 60-70 students, fac­ulty and clergy. "We need to improve decision-making in the system." 
Clay said that the people of Ethiopia were forced to sell their grain, including surpluses, to the government and then had to buy subsistence grain from western agencies such as CARE. Western food assistance was used as bait to trap people into resettling on the promise of receiving food in areas where, in fact, there was none. 
Cuny of Intertect said that Clay's statements against resettling were not completely justified because the U.S. had proposed that as early as 1968 and had been funding that since 1976. 
Clay attributed the manipulation of the western agencies to their lack of under­standing as manifested in their 
···················:
: CHRIS KOSTER it: iC iC 
-.~1-o\~: 
R~J o~~· ~ ~\~~ ~ 
..,e. ,\ iC ~ 
\Pv \)~vie ~ iC 






~0'((\ :••••••••••• ·······~ 
~~o~'e RENTALS I 
•

: No Deposit Ask about our •• Free Membership 95t student club •• 
•
• No Hassle membership!
•
• 
per day 
•
• (2 day min) 
• "Early Bird 
•
•
• Special"
•
•
•
•
•
•


• 
(blockbuster and Premium Movies -NI A)
• 
·~======================~------=~----------------------------· 
• 
Rent-A-Video Player • 
: $9.~ : 
• for 3 days • 
~ ~INf• Plus-1st~~~ ~ 
• 512 W. Edison 
c •
!~~~ka urlis ! ~~!~!~:ower IIIIIIIIIIIMalhes ~ 
failure to insist on an indepen­dent assessment of the causes of the famine, its effect and the monitoring of food programs. 
The agencies are not equipped for research, detailed analysis and project monitor­ing because they deem these processes too lengthy, expen­sive and irrevelant, Clay said. 
Coli said Catholic Relief Ser­vices and the Church Drought Africa Agency knew the causes and anticpated the famine as early as 1982. 
The agencies could not get the public to listen and act until 1984. "We were not duped ­lives were saved and that is what counts," Coil said. 
Further, he said, every re­sponsible agency does have a well-defined program for emergencies encompassing prior assessments, technical assistance, material and finan­cial aid, distribution networks, and evaluation programs. 
While they also try to prepare to the best of their ability, it is difficult given their limited fun­ding, Coli said. "Had we access to funds spent for military pur­poses, maybe we could be more thoughtful." 
Cuny said, the aid of the west­ern agencies did not have an impact either way, having ar­rived mainly at the time that death rates began falling. 
Authorities, neighbors and acquaintances said Heidnik prowled the neighborhood for mentally impaired women, showing off fancy cars before enslaving them in his house, where a sign read: "united 
Church  of  the  Ministries  of  
God."  
Heidnik's  estranged  wife,  

Betty Heidnik, told WPVI-TV that Heidnik began the church in 1970, and that it had a con­gregation of fewer than a dozen people, some of whom were mentally retarded. 

Heidnik was ordered heJd without bail pending an April 1 hearing on a murder charge in the slaying of Debbie Johnson, 23, whose partly buried, naked body was found Wednesday in a southern New Jersey forest, authorities said. 
Heidnik also was ordered held in lieu of $1 million bail on four counts of rape and related charges including kidnapping, officials said. 

The Observer Friday, March '1:1, 1987 -page 7 

Norm 'Bundle-of-the-week' Muller resigns from laundry 

By ROB HENNIG Copy Editor 
Norm Muller, known at Notre Dame for his sports predictions and bundle-of-the­week giveaways, has resigned as director of Saint Michael's laundry and dry cleaning. 
Muller said he resigned for personal reasons on March 1 or 2 and declined to elaborate. "I just had a good time and I really enjoyed you guys. It's time to move on," Muller said. 
According to Muller, he ar­rived at Notre Dame in 1975 as Commander of the U.S. Air Force ROTC detachment here. After retiring from that posi­tion, Muller started at Saint Mi­chael's as assistant director in 1978. He took over as director in 1982. 

Associated Press CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­
' 'Ct'll ~ /l/J 

An Atlas-Centaur rocket
l1"t:0We~ 0/( Q~~ OCCOni,Ottn.H 

pitched out of control and was 
~t; ~ 

destroyed by a radio signal
Comein and Browse 

Thursday about 60 seconds
3l7 L · o1 

after it lifted off with an $83 
lftC nway l3l~3354 

million military communica­'"------------------....;..;;.;;;;;~;..;.~..1 tions satellite. 
Muller said he currently has no plans other than to "relax for a while." 
"To Norm's credit, he did a real nice job of updating (the laundry service)," said James Lyphout, assistant vice presi­dent for business affairs. 
Lyphout said the laundry ser­vice just was recently trans­ferred to his jurisdiction. Pre­
viously,  it  was  under  the  
direction  of  Father  William  
Beauchamp,  executive  assis­ 

tant to the president. 
Beauchamp was out of town and could not be reached for comment. 
Lyphout indicated applica­tions are currently being solicited for the position. "It has been posted inside the Uni­versity. I've had several appli­cants inside the University. 

Rocket carrying satellite explodes 
they thought was a lightning flash near the vehicle shortly after it blasted off. 
The 137-foot booster blasted away from its launch pad into a light rain at 4:22 p.m. EST and quickly darted into a low cloud bank. 
NASA launch commentator data.... We appeared to have lost the vehicle." 
Later, he reported that the rocket had shot out of control and was blown apart by a radio signal that denotated charges in the vehicle. 
The destruction was neces­sary to prevent the rocket from veering toward populated 

The unmanned rocket lifted George Diller said the rocket areas. off in a rain storm and there appeared to be flying normally Wreckage fell into the Atlan­was a possibility it was hit by when he suddenly announced, tic Ocean several miles off­lightning. Observers saw what "We have lost all telemetry shore. 

Pothole hunter prowls Indiana highways 
Associated Press diana, testing the travel lanes Jones took the job about two of state and interstate high­years ago. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­ways-in both directions. •'I like the variety, seeing dif­When Idris Jones drives down ferent places," he said. "Most a highway, he doesn't avoid the Jones was a traveling ··sales­of my driving is during decent potholes. It's his job to plow man until he got laid off a few weather, so I get to see a lot of right into them. years ago. Fortunately, he places when everybody else is 
As the only road roughness said, the Indiana Highway De­stuck inside." tester in the state, Jones logs partment Research Training about 30,000 miles a year in a Center in West Lafayette was The car Jones drives is specially equipped car. Three looking for someone with pro­equipped . with a motion­or four days a week, Jones is fessional experience behind the sensitive device on its rear on a road somewhere in In-wheel. axle. The instrument measures the amount of vertical motion the car receives, and a com­puter interprets the readings and prints out the results. Earlier tests used a mechan­ical device that required the driver to stop every five miles to record the data and reset the equipment, he said. 

The test results are delivered to the department~s Division of Program Development, which compiles requests for road repair or resurfacing. 
~IPTICNS CF-:F'OSrno~JS AJo...~t:> APPUCATION'5 

Jones said the worst stretch A'-'AIL...AJ!.LE:. 1"-l ~~T a=-Fic::..E:S­
of roadway he's run across was 
.2.Nt::> 1=1 o::e.. 1....0.~. A.P?LICA.."i\<::::t--lS D..Je &'(' 

Indiana 101 near Fort Wayne.
4·co~ -F!Zit::k\.Y, APSZ.Il-!-. 

"But it's been resurfaced or repaired since then," he added. 

•noan 
... llll an 
~· 

1: (2 miles from campus, '-----=-·-comer--of-Edison & Grape) 

Liquor 
1.75 I Silvercrest Gin ... $7.99 
1.75 I Glenmore Vodka...$7.99 750 ml Jack Daniels...$9.99 

HOURS: M.-TH. 9 am-10 pm  City Wide Li1 uors  
Fri. & Sat. 9 am-11 pm  3825 North Grape Road, Mishawa Ia 272·2274  
Largest selection of corked wines in area  

Call us on your SYR parties for price quotes. 
Wine Kegs (15.6 gal) 
4 pak Bartles & Jaymes ............. $2.99 

Budweiser ....... $29.99 
750 ml 

Busch ........... $25.99 
M & A Asti ................... $7.99 Sutterhome White Zinfandel. ..$3.99 

Prices good thru March 29 

Beer (cases) 
Budweiser (24 rtn bottles)...$6.99 Rhinelander .................. $3.99 Lite (24 cans) ............... $7.99 Budweiser (24 cans) .......... $7 .99 Old Style .................... $7.99 


---------~-----~~--------------~-----------------------­




\TielV~_O_i_n_t_____________
Fri-day,M-arch-27,100-7-p-ages 
Students need support when confronted by law 

At approximately midnight on Friday, February 28, numerous

t ! marked and unmarked police cars con­ducted a raid upon my house on East Navarre Street. As a result of the op­eration against our quiet, self­contained party, one out of 100 people were cited for underage drinking and one of my housemates was incar­cerated on the charge of selling alcohol without a permit. The "criminal" was then handcuffed behind his back and first placed in a paddy wagon and then a patrol car. Four kegs and two taps were confiscated as "evidence" by the police. Numerous guests were harassed and threatened by the police, who came into our house by forcing themselves past two close friends who demanded warrants and evidence of a crime in progress, and who themselves came close to being arrested. 
; 
Evan Farley

f 
l guest columnI 
I . It is my contention that more crimes were perpetrated by the members of the police force than by the residen~s of my house and our guests. Although I am only a senior government major with little legal experience, I am cer­tain that the police acted improperly and perhaps even unconstitutionally. First, giving of breathalizers in a house has long been disputed by many concerned citizens and students, yet no legal resolution to the problem has been made in the state of Indiana. I have been informed by afriend, though, that a case was tried in the state of Illinois and the r~ling went against the police department. Second, the definition of "probable cause" in this case was hazy at best. No attempt was made to point out the "officers" that were in our house nor how the police deemed the party to have the probable cause of having minors there. Is the mere existence of a party becoming a de facto "probable cause" for the investigation of a "crime?" Third, my arrested housemate was neither read his rights nor permitted to place a phone call. I thought that the reading of rights was guaranteed by the "Miranda" decision of the Supreme Court. Was it an actual arrest? The "suspect" was handcuffed, brought to the police station, photographed, and held on bail. It is clear he was arrested, but why was he not afforded all of his rights? 
Fourth, the conduct of the police was somewhat less than polite. Abusive lan­guage was used throughout the raid un­til the Channel 28 news cameras were turned on. The police then started ad­dressing the guests and residents as "sir" or "m'am." When we addressed the police -using phrases such as ''with all due respect,'' -we were not paid attention to and threatened with arrest for "obstruction of justice" or being a "public nuisance." When we asked the arresting officers how much the bail was set for they replied "$50," but upon 
Doonesbury 
entering the police station two of us found that it had been changed to $100 and received the comment, "Next time bring someone who is 21," (both stu­dents were 21). 
Lastly, would any of this in in our case or that of others really stand up in a court of law? The burden of proof by law must rest with the police. Can they prove the charge of "selling" "al­cohol" without a license? If cups are sold at a party' does that constitute in­tent to sell alcohol? What if cups are sold but guests don't have to use those cups to consume the alcohol? Would that be the same thing? If one asks for money for a cup, is that the same thing as saying, "you must pay to drink al­cohol?" What if donations were asked to help defray the costs of potato chips, while the bar was technically free? There are many scenarios that can be extrapolated from this situation, even though they all rest on technicalities. Yet isn't that what a criminal case can be thrown out for -technicalities? The burden of proof must rest with the police in establishing intent with respect to the letter of the law. And what about the reading of rights and the allowance of a phone call? Doesn't the absence of such measures con­stitute grounds for the dismissal of charges? Do the police think that Notre Dame students are second-rate citizens who don't merit proper treatment un­der the law, or that we are either too stupid to realize that our rights have been violated, or too meek to expend the time and the efforf needed to pros­ecute the case? Whatever is the case, something must be done by us. 
The students of Notre Dame have been pushed around by the police long enough. They think that we have nei­ther the time nor the money to prose­cute the case and that therefore we can­not touch them. Perhaps they are right in a sense. This is, however, the reason why I am writing this letter. The Ob­server reports that it has a subscription size of over 12,000 many of which are mailed around the nation to friends and alumni of Notre Dame. It is to you who have either the time, money, or expe­rience that I make my plea. 
I call on the friends of Notre Dame, the alumni, and other interested parties to aid the Notre Dame student body. Is there someone out there -a lawyer in New York, a businessman in Chicago, or a concerned parent who still believes in the protection of our rights -who can help us? Is there a lawyer in the South Bend area who is interested in handling a controversial case and possibly gaining notoriety? Is there someone in the law school who can advise us or give us counsel? Is there someone who can show us how to raise the money and find the time to fight this in a court of law? We need your help! This is not an attempt by a student to simply, ''fight for our right to party.'' I did that three years ago on the steps of the Ad­ministration building. Beer is not the issue here -the letter of the law is. I furthermore cannot be hypocritical and condemn the police while condoning the underage use of alcohol. That choice is up to the individual. What I am con­demning is the trampling of rights. I will enter the military in two months and I have been sworn to protect the United States Constitution. If this is the same Constitution under which such ac­tivities of the local police are allowed, then it is not worth the effort. If you can help or are just angry enough to do 


P.O.BoxQ 
Church encourages acceptance of teaching 
Dear Editor: 

Steve Hipp's long and elegantly con­structed defense of Catholic fundamen­talism in his March 4 column suffers from the same peculiar flaw that all other types of fundamentalism suffer from. 
He says that "the Church has (a) divine mandate to preserve, interpret, promulgate and defend the fixed deposit of faith .... Being Catholic means ... that ... one accepts the divinely in­stituted teaching authority of the Church on depositum fidei. This is C~th­olic Faith." His argument boils down to the following: individual Catholic believers should not exercise their freedom to think in ways that disagree with what the hierarchy teaches, not just because what they end up believing is itself wrong, but more fundamentally because the very notion that there is something to decide upon is itself "ex­ternal to (and) against the teaching of the Church.'' This seems to be what some of the picketers outside of the recent abortion debate had in mind when they painted their signs to read "Abortion is not debatable." They did not care whether Burtchaell or Maguire ''won'' the debate bec~use they did not think that it should have occurred in something, please contact me and we will try to do something instead of being chickens who go meekly to the slaughter by pleading "guilty." The police of this area have printed on their cars the slogan ''To Serve and Protect." They have been doing nei­ther. Let's change that. 
Evan Farley is a senior government major. 
the first place. Merely having it was, to them, a sign of theological and eth­ical surrender. 
Here is where the fundamentalist flaw resides. The very notion of choice includes the possibility of choosing "against" as well as "for." If one could only choose "for" certain teachings of the hierarchy, for instance, then no no­tion of choice would be present. But clearly Mr. Hipp thinks that a proper exercise of Catholic Christianity in­volves choices; he must, since he spends so many pages telling us how to make them properly. That being so, the possibility of choosing "against" the hierarchy is not only present but in fact is guaranteed. Granted that the hierarchy may not wish for individual Catholics to exercise this option, but here that is at issue only peripherally. What is more important is that the very Church which Mr. Hipp claims to defend promotes a view here that is different than his. That Church, not his, calls for its members to choose whether its magisterial teachings are valid and appropriate articulations of divine truth, or not. It does not want them to choose wrongly, naturally enough, but it places the ultimate burden of respon­sibility on them when it invites them to decide to accept its teachings. For his sake as well as for its, it would be nice if Mr. Hipp chose to join this Church. 
Garry Trudeau 
W8.L, OK rnEN... 

IF YOU INSISt.. IOOJBlE.·COJBLE· 
OOIJBLE·OOUBL~· 
[X)UBlE·TRIPLE 
Arol.OGIZE WITI-t SUGf:\R ON\t... 

Campus Quote 
"Talent is God-given, be humble; Fame is man-given, be thankful." 
Rich Branning ND Basketball Player (1976-1980) 1980 Basketball Banquet 
VieWP-Oint Friday, March 27, 1987-page 9 
Campus bands deserve a compromised policy 
The office of Student Activities has sent out "reminders" to members of campus bands that university policy prohibits the posting of flyers or posters advertising off-campus performances. I qualify the word "reminders" be­cause this policy was never clear to the students it affects before the letters were sent, if the policy as stated even existed beforehand at all. Such adver­tising, the new Student Activities Direc­tor Joe Cassidy reminds us, is restricted to The Observer, Scholastic or WVFI. Unauthorized fliers will be ripped from bulletin boards, and violations are punishable by a $100 fine. 
Mary Jacoby 
guest column 
Bam. That was easy enough. Student Activities has dealt a major blow to campus bands trying to get themselves heard. Fliers are the most effective and cost-efficient way to advertise on a gig on campus. Tacked onto bulletin boards around campus, they let the student body know when and where a band would be playing. Most of the fliers were also quite creative and caught people's eyes better than a tiny classi­fied ad would in The Observer. Without the fliers, a lot less people will know when and where a band is playing. 
Ads in The Observer are also effec­
tive, but who has the money for ad 
inches? A small two column by three 
inch ad costs $25 per day. Most band 
members are lucky if they make half 
that much from a gig. 
Once again the Student Activities Of­fice has confronted a problem not with a solution but with a denial of students' needs. The proliferation of fliers -di­rectly due to the wonderful variety of campus bands this year -should be a concern of Student Activities. Fliers were being taped all over campus, on sidewalks and trash cans, and they were crowding out other announce­ments on bulletin boards. The Univer­sity had no control over these fliers, which were being displayed on Univer­sity property. Some sort of regulation is in order. That's regulation, not abolishment. 
I'm sure most bands would be willing to compromise and allow Student Ac­tivities to approve the fliers before they were posted. For their part, Student Ac­tivities could designate specific boards were the fliers could be tacked. This simple solution would eliminate what Student Activities may consider the un­sightly proliferation of' fliers as well as give the office veto power over offen­sive material (although the recent in­cident with Scholastic demonstrated how dangerous that power can be). Bands would be able to advertise cheaply effectively and creatively. Everyone would be happy! 

Cassidy, the student activities direc-, tor, wasn't in office the first half of this week when I called to ascertain the rationale behind the policy. The secre­tary offered a possible explanation. She said that bands playing at bars were in effect asking people under 21 to break the law by coming to see them. Also, bands advertising dates at bars were advertising private business on Univer­sity property. Without having spoken to Cassidy, I cannot say for sure whe­ther this is the real reason behind ban­ning the fliers on campus; but let's con­sider how fallacious this reasoning is anyway, because such an excuse is typical of University bureaucratic thinking. 
First of all, students under 21 cannot enter bars legally anyway, so fliers an-

P.O.BoxQ 
Exclusive celebrations deny worship to some 
Dear Editor: 
Is it right that a student at Notre Dame is denied the right of exercising his belief in practicing his faith as a Catholic by attending mass on the Sat­urday vigil at 5:15p.m. mass at Sacred Heart Church in the main body of the church because he does not donate $1,000 or more every year and he is not part of the Sorin Society, even though his family contributes $11,000 to pay for his college education? 
This is what happened to me on Sat­urday, Feb. 28, when a friend of mine, accompanied me to Sacred Heart Church for 5:15p.m. mass. I was only permitted to enter the main body of the church because my services as an acolyte were needed for the mass. But my friend was denied admission to the church to worship because his services were not needed. Instead, he had to at­tend mass at the crypt at 5:00 p.m. and then it was already 5:05p.m. 
Do we now have a closed policy on who can attend mass when the large financial supporters of Notre Dame are invited to visit the campus? Are we as­hamed to let our students intermingle and celebrate mass with these people who have donated large sums of money to the University? 
Do not get me wrong, I am very ap­preciative of these people who belong to the Sorin Society. Most of us students would not be here if they did not donate money for scholarships and other fin­ancial programs that are needed to keep this university running and com­petitive. If it was not for them, I prob­ably would not be able to attend this excellent university. 
But should we close off the entire church for them so a mass could be celebrated by Father Hesburgh and the homily given by Father Malloy? Why could they not open up the entire church? I realized, while serving mass, that all the regular seats were taken up in the front and the sides of the altar. Could they not put more seats behind the altar like they do for the major foot­ball games (i.e. the Michigan game this year?). Instead, they crammed all the regular congregation of 5: 15 p.m. mass down into the crypt. Was the University trying to hide the people that regularly attended mass at Sacred Heart? An­other option that the University had was to hold a special mass that was later in time, say about 6:30p.m. 
Overall, the mass was a very beau­tiful ceremony. Would it have been any less than a beautiful ceremony if the regular congregation and students were allowed to partake in the mass with the Sorin Society? Just because we, the students of Notre Dame, are not part of the Sorin Society, does it mean that we are not allowed to pray together with people that may be better off than we are financially and are very , generous with their donations to the University? 
Is the number of people that attended the mass from the Sorin Society the rea­son why students were excluded? Does Pope John Paul II limit the amount of people that are allowed to attend mass in St. Peter's Square when the crowds are enormous? Do societies and money separate the places and time that we are allowed to pray and worship to­gether as a community? Are we, the students and parishioners of Sacred Heart, not the Church of Sacred Heart? It is too bad that the University puts aside their students and Sacred Heart forgets their parishioners when guests visit the University. 
I hope and pray that next year, when the Sorin Society is once again invited, that the University lets the students and parishioners be able to pray and wor­ship with them. 

David Ragan Flanner Hall 
Women in minority due to disparity in pay 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reponse to Chris Julka's inside column of Wednesday, March 25 concerning sex discrimina­tion. Julka states, "A few thousand dol­lars may seem a lot to me now, but I am sure when I am 50 years old I will barely notice the difference and will probably just laugh at the fact that I could have taken such a frivolous worldly thing so seriously now (Ha!)." It is very likely that he will not miss the "few thousand dollars" and be in the position to laugh about the situation since he will most likely be making a "few thousand dollars more" than his sister in the same iob. Even if he and nouncing bands in bars should be dis­regarded by them. And what difference does it make whether a student under 21 sees an advertisement for a band at a bar in The Observer or posted on a bulletin board? Restricting such adver­tising to campus media exposes the an­nouncement to as many minors as fliers would. 
It seems the University can't stand to let outside businesses such as Lee's Bar and Grill, Duke's Bistro or Chips get a few extra dollars off of University students without paying for it. That's the most logical, albeit petty, reason I can find for the banning of fliers. The University wants bars to pay for adver­tising. To the University that means $25 or so an ad -a miniscule drop in the bucket for them. To the student bands whose responsibility it is to promote their performances, $25 per ad is a lot of money. 
A lot of students form bands because they're bored and it's something fun to do. But it's not worth practicing much if no one ever hears you. Could that be the way the University wants to keep it? Mary Jacoby is a senior American Studies/German major. 
his sister do not pursue similar career goals, comparing his salary with wo­men in the same field clearly reveals discriminatory pay differences. 
When comparing the salaries of workers aged 35-44 with five or more years of college, women continue to receive considerably less pay than males in the same field. For example, female lawyers make an average of $26,319 while male lawyers enjoy an average salary of $47,635; female physicians have an average salary of $41,516 and their male counterparts make an average of $71,972: and in managerial and administrative posi­tions, females have an average salary of $20,003 and males average $38,915. Average women to this day continue to earn only about 62 cents for every dollar earned by average men. If Julka would expand his knowledge of the world beyond his "backyard," I am sure he will find that women, like Hispanics, blacks, and homosexuals, are indeed minorities in this society. 
Helen Paik Off-Campus 


General Board 
The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief ........................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............... 1................ Brian P. Murray Managing Editor .................................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Michael Whitton 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ........................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ........................ Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................. ; .................... Jim Riley Production Manager............................. Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ........................................ Chris Murphy Projects Manager ............................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .................................... Michael Naughton Controller ............................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ............................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ............................. Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .................................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ....................... Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 
--------~~---~-----·---~~---------------------..._.-....~~... ....
w-· 
l ~ : 
-1/ 
Accent 
Interview: 


The Georgia Satellites hand The Obser 
(but keep their hands to themsc 
I 
excited. If they're excited and that, but out in the Midwest
' ~ { 
they yell when the house lights you have to kind of go and go down, and you're out there kick the door in, one city at a
,I 
i 
and you're playing and it's still time. The best way about doing fun and it just kind of works that is going out and playing out. I mean, we never sit back with a band that draws a lot of there and have one of those people. Hopefully they're a rock 
"Pump 'Em Up" sessions. "AI-'n' roll act or they have some­
• right, guys, let's go out there thing where you're not gonna
1 
and really kick..." You know, come in there to an audience
l 
l 
It's just not that way. We just expecting tasteful jazz rock or 
sit around and it's like okay, something like that. You can 
l J 
time to go. "Oh, it is? Okay. go out, do your show, and get well here we go." And we get 25 to 50 percent of the people out there onstage and uh, one, that are out there to like you.
~ 
i 
two, three, four (makes guitar Maybe most of them have f 
sounds)ll heard, like "Keep Your Hands" t 0: How did you take going or something like that and you from clubs to large arenas? know they like it and they know 
I 
DB: It's weird, it's like you the song. But the thing is to gotta try and keep it mentally like you're still playing to a 
''It's not like I'm gonna
small place. You gotta realize 
' l 
get dressed up in Span­
that the person that's sitting the farthest away Is a longer, dex and have, you know, longer way away. You gotta exploding poo-poo and bring him In closer somehow. everything.''And you do that by minimizing your gestures onstage. I think. warm them up to the whole 
This seems to work the best, I idea of like 'This is a band. don't really know why and I They have a record out. You think if I analyze it, it wouldn't might like this record. Go buy prove fruitful anyway. But, it this record." just seems like if you use like O:What bands Influenced you larger gestures and do them as far as the record goes? minimally and, instead of being DB: Oh man, there's so able to make little, little jokes, many. You wanna get into all you know, quiet jokes onstage this? and little motions and stuff like O:lf the Georgia Satellites that. that only the first .30 feet could be one band, that they can pick up on. are not, what would they be? 
You need something more DB: Oh, The Faces. Yeah, along the lines of a Barnum Rod Stewart and the Faces and Bailey mentality, like David would probably be the band 
Lee Roth. Basically you gotta that we would be, you know it's start looking at him as the like the Stones. I don't know. weren't any rock 'n' roll records person who can use a big It's like you've got bands like
KEVIN WALSH at the time that we came out, arena to his advantage. And the Stones and the Faces and 
T 
features writer and just every now and then It you go like, well, okay, he's Lynrd Skynrd and then you can he Georgia Satellites is an Atlanta-based band playing just sounds good. stupid, he's dumb, he hasn't go back to Johnny Burnette decidedly non-Top 40 grunge-roadhouse rock 'n' roll. Their 0: Do you think the record got anything, why do people and the Rock 'n' Roll Trio and self-titled debut album on Elektra has, along with the album's company had anything to do love him so much? 'Cause he's then you can go forward to the smash rebel yell single "Keep Your Hands To Yourself," been in with it? really great on a stage. And Replacements, even though the Top Ten {or quite a while now. The unique raw guitar of Rick DB: Oh yeah. They really put why is he great on a stage? we're not like the Replace­Richards coupled with singer/songwriter/guitarist Dan Baird's a good push behind It and all Well, it's not like I'm gonna get ments, we have something In assertive vocals glue the group an interesting sound in the same that stuff, you know, when you dressed up in Spandex and common. I think. I hope. I see vein as Lynyrd Skynyrd, the Rolling Stones, and George see those people up at the have, you know, exploding something in them that I really Thorogood. Grammy's thanking their record poo-poo and everything. But admire. You know and it's that Thursday afternoon. The Observer interviewed Baird and dis­companies, that's why. 'Cause you learn the thing like "Do the Thang X, Item X. you know it's covered a band that is serious about its music, but little else. The It's like without those guys you Big Gesture, instead of the like here we're gonna take a Georgia Satellites will open {or REO Speedwagon Saturday night can't do anything. little one." You know, same chance on, you know like get­at the ACC. 0: How has the tour with gesture, instead of like a little tin' weird, or havin' some fun Rf:O (Speedwagon) been so flick of the hand, though, you or laughin', you know, Observer: Why did you name Anyway, the band took a little far? gotta roll your whole arm whatever it is we're gonna do the band the Georgia Satel­hiatus and our road manager DB: It's been alright. You around. You're In a theatre, we're gonna do it in spite of lites? went to England and he said, know we just go out there and you're not in a club. It's a weird and because of everything we Dan Baird: Okay, this will "Well, there's a band over here do our show and then...boom. thing, but you do have to pay feel and believe ... BLAH BLAH come about through the fact called The Satellites already ... I 0: It must be pretty tough to attention to where you arc. BLAH! that our (stumbling) orit-know what I'll do, I'll call them get excited about playing In Otherwise you're only gonna 0: Who else are you follow­hinal...our "orithlnal"? Our The Georgia Satellites." And the middle of Duckbutt, USA? get like the first few people Ing today? arrithable rithasesta ... our that's the name. DB: Oh, no, no, no. Duck­around you, and you're gonna DB: Urn, a band called the original rhythm section--David 0: That works out neatly. butt's a pretty fun town. It's fail dismally. Broken Homes, out of Los Michaelson on drums and Keith DB: Well, that's the way it is. just individual things. It's like 0: Do you ever feel as if you Angeles. Jason and the Scor­Christopher on bass. Now It's funny, I mean it's like whe­Ann Arbor, where we're at are caught between superstar­chers, Dwight Yoakam, and uh, David thought It would be ther you like it or not, there It today, is fine. It's a college dam and cult status? all the right bands, you know. great because he's got a sick is. As they say in Amadeus town. You know, at least DB: Well, it's real weird. I 0: What do you think of the sense of humor, to name the "Well, there you have it." there's something to see and mean it's like either one just whole image you have as the band Keith and the Satellites. It 0: What do you see as the do. Granted, it's not Manhattan, seemed llke...you i{now like, new fun band, the new party­just had a sound to It that he reason for your popularity? but then again, no place else is just completely out of reach six rock band? liked. And we all went"Okay, You had a Top Ten album, a either, except Los Angeles. months ago. I don't know, I DB: The new party-rock band. we'll use that one for a while." Top Ten single, even a Top Compared to those think rock 'n' rollers are gonna Ahh, that's okay, I mean it's You know figuring, bands don't Ten M1V video and what do places ... wherever you go from like us and stun like that and like if that's all you wanna get last. Keith quit about nine you see as the main reason New York City, it's gonna be they're gonna see through all out of it, that doesn't bother months later, and, urn, we had behind that? boring, and about a week later the stuff. It's just getting out me. If you wanna dig a little bit to drop the Keith from the DB: Uh ... chance. Circum­you start to hit level ground there, and, you know, like in deeper there. I like to think name, obviously and the "and" stance, chance, the lack of a again. New York and Los Angeles, there's more there. You know, as well. So we were just left rock 'n' roll record at the time Well, I mean, look. you're there's a buzz on you. You it all depends on what people over with the Satellites and we we put our's out. There're a lot doing a show and there's know, and It's like you're a are willing to pull out of it. It's kept that for a long time. of pop records out; there people out there and they're known quantity and things like much like, you know, without 

Friday, March 27, 1987-page 10 -11 

ver some lines 
~lves) 
being pretentious, you wanna say it's like reading a book. You can read it for the story or you can get into a little bit deeper or you can try to see how it applies to your life, BLAH BLAH BLAH. You can take it as far as you want to. In fact, you can start reading in meanings that aren't even there. You know what I mean? And so it's like, you know, if all you wanna do is put on "Keep Your Hands To Yourself," and maybe "Railroad Steel" or "Bat­tleship Chains" and just whip the record off and just go "Ok, the rest of that is uh, too heavy." You know, that's cool. That doesn't bother me, maybe someday you'll leave it on because you forgot to take it off and something will get done. You know, I mean, it's better than the Pet Shop Boys. I mean, it just is. 
0: It's Thang X. 
DB: Thang X. I mean Thang X entitles us to you know like Better Than The Pet Shop Boys at least. 
0: Who would you like to work with? Besides the Pet Shop Boys? 
DB: (laughs) Umm, boy that's a rough one. As far as an opening act? 
0: Well, recording, producer, album work, performing... 
DB: Oh, I don't know. I was sitting there when I heard that the Replacements lost Bob Stinson, and I was ready to throw away the band. "PICK ME, PAUU PICK ME! I THINK YOU'RE A GENIUS." Ahem, let's see, he's just like my big hero right now. It's just like he's just got such good songs. I mean, "Little Mascara," I mean, what a rock 'n' roll song! Lyrically. Emotionally. I mean, just soni­cally, it just...it kills. Urn, me and Jason (of Jason and the Scorchers) keep talking about doing a folk duet in New York City. Just the two of us up there with acoustic guitars, you 
''There weren't any rock 'n' roll records at the time that we came out!' 
f'
• know, a-pickin' and a-grinnin', 
.  you know. Havin' some fun. We  
could probably dig up about a  
.~  hundred really fun songs be­ 
tween us.  
Really, the guys I'm working  
with I'm happy with. I mean,  

. it's like Rick Price, keeps an interesting bass line, real pushy, kind of like Ronnie Lane used to play. (Rick) Richards is like that big solo guitar thing that you know Steve Hunter used to have it. Nick Ronson, you know. Everybody starts going, ..'38 Special, no, excuse me Lynyrd Skynyrd and Billy Gibbons and stuff, but I hear kind of an English thing. Kind of an Angus Young, maybe. And uh, Mauro (Magellan, the band's drummer) is like death In 414 time, any beat you want. I mean It's just like he knocks the s---out of me. Everybody's really emotionally committed to the moment. Oooh, that's a quote. I could smell that one as it was coming out, you know what I mean? Anyway, when the band's doin' right, obviously you can't do right all the time, but when the band is doin' right, which is a pretty good amount of the time, it's like everybody's there, everybody's not playing the same chords and doing the (makes robot sounds) you know playing the same way, everybody's just trying to make it as immediate as possible. 
0: What's next for the Geor­gia Satellites? 
DB: More touring. More touring. More touring. Endless, endless touring. 
0: No studio In sight? 
DB: That'd be next year. (Laughs) January of next year is the pencilled date. I want to get all the mileage out of this record that we can. A Iotta bands put out some really great songs on their first record, it doesn't click immedi­ately, they have to go back into the studio and cut a second record or a third record and finally that material starts get­ting pushed and it's like some of their best songs on the first two records are lost. It's like, no way, baby. I don't want it to be like "We got our one hit off this one, let's go." No sirree, I want 'em to put a little push on "Myth of Love" to see what happens here. 
0: Well, I wish you luck. 1 think you'll make it. 
DB: Well, we have kind of made it, you know, as far as selling "A Bunch 0' Records," but as far as like making something that's gonna last, that's just much more Impor­tant. Time will tell. I'm hoping to be put In that kind of cate­gory, but you know that's pretty pretentious to vote your­self in. 
0: What's the line between pretentiousness and ambition? 
DB: Well, I don't know. It's like the Emperor's New Clothes. You know, it's "Aren't I just looking marvelous?" It's one of those things that you can't tell until the time comes around, how many people does this really emotionally affect? Does it stand up? Is it more popular 20 years from now than it was when it came out? Say like the Velvet Underground. Here's a band that as years go by they 
just keep getting more popular. What can you say? Even bands like even as weird as like The Doors had that huge resur­gence at the end of the 70s. Music that lasts. It is more important than selling "A Lot 0' Records." Although that's nice. But it is not personally impor­tant. I'm not gonna be able to remember how many records we sold when I'm 60. I'll be saying "God, that's embarrass­ing" or "God I'm glad I did that." Boom. 


The Observer/Jennifer O'Donald 
Steve Daner, Martin Shubert, Nick Rossi, and Mike Knotts display their 'dirty and base' humor In the Cavanaugh Hall production of 'A Gap In Generations.' 
'A Gap in Generations' 
Cavanaugh puts on a 'dirty' play 
DOUG ANDERSON features writer 
C
avanaugh Hall's production "A Gap in Generations" is currently playing at Washington Hall. Last night's performance played to about 70 people--an audience which was akin to a junior varsity football game, with only friends and relatives in attendance. The show, which benefits the Andy Sowder Memorial Scholarship Fund, continues through Saturday, with performances at 7:30 nightly. 
The play is an adaption of the 16th century Commedia del'arte style. Featured is a group of travelling players which moves into a town and transforms itself into a number of characters who act out a story. They call themselves the Affamati Company and tell the story of two families: the House of Di Besignosi and the House of Di Scaterelli. Both families feature aging fathers who wish they were young, bumbling servants, and eligible, marriage-aged children. 
The families attempt to ar­range a tie between Lelia Di Besignosl (played by Scott Wel­lman) and Isabella Di Scaterelli (Karen Green). The plot focuses on complications caused by a variety of factors. Some of these derive from the women's attempts to trap their respec­tive men (and fortunes) and the men's desire for sex. Adding to these complications is the pres­ence of two women of "ques­tionable" character, who aim to separate the men from their fortunes in return for satisfying certain desires. 
Overall, however, the play leaves a little to be desired. There are some funny scenes and some good performances, but the gaps in between are a bit ·long, and as a result the play seems to drag on. An in­teresting aspect of the play is the combination of traditional themes with modern references thrown in. As Isabella's mentor (Shannon McAuliffe) tries to set up Isabella with her suitor, she 
reads to her student from "The 
Chemistry of Love", by Emil T. 
Hofman. Another plus the play 
provides is the energy that the 
cast exhibits. They offer a 
refreshingly unstuffy style of 
acting. 
One aspect of the play which should delight any audience member is the fact that the actors and actresses are actu­ally having fun onstage. After seeing plays where the actors are distant and removed, the viewer finds that the attitude of the actors in this show helps to deliver a less than admirable script. 
Two standout performances are delivered by Nick Rossi and Shannon McAuliffe. Both per­
form dual roles as members of 
the Houses of Di Besignosi and 
Di Scaterelli, respectively, and 
as the maestro of the Affamati 
Company and his wife. Both 
actor and actress provide en­joyable performances, and they 
manage the character changes 
impressively. 
"A Gap in Generations" offers many good aspects, but the two-hour performance is long, considering the material. The actors try to keep the flow, but the play should be shorter. If you have time before you go out, stop by and see either tonight's or Saturday's perfor­mance and remember to donate to the Sowder Fund as you leave. 
Behind the scenes 
KIM YURATOVAC features writer 
C
avanaugh Hall will present! "A Gap In Generations" itonight and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The!play, directed and produced by I Kevin Fitzpatrick, centers \ around a group of travelling l players and their performance!in the square at Bologna. 
! 

I 
i Fitzpatrick describes the !humor in the show as "veryIphysical, the forerunner of j slap-stick" and compares "A Gap In Generations" to modern I 
situation comedies."The key to I the show is simplicity," Fitzpatrick adds. The produc­
tion mimics the Commedia dell'arte style.
1

I "Commedia dell'arte produc­
tions were originally done in the streets, for the common people. That's why so much of the humor is base or dirty. It's 
1 written for a simple audience in a way that transcends time and space," Fitzpatrick explained. 
I "Our production of "A Gap In 
!Generations" is set in a 1987 university community, although the text remains Intact, as if we 
were performing in sixteenth-. century Italy." 
This is the fifth year of the Cavanaugh productions to benefit the Andy Sowder Schol­arship Fund. Sowder was Cavanaugh Hail President in 1979. He attended the annual ski trip that year and was brought back early because of an illness. What was thought to be a severe case of the flu turned out to be spinal menin­ginitis. Soon after, he died, unable to live without the aid of a life support system. Cavanaugh Hall rector, Father Matthew M. Miceli, wrote in a letter to the men of Cavanaugh, "I can honestly say that Andy Sowder was one of the finest hall presidents we have ever had. He was a self· less type of guy who gave a lot more to his fellow students 
than he received." In 1979, Cavanaugh Hall Council in­itiated the Andy Sowder Schol­arship Fund. Cavanaugh has raised over $12,000 for the scholarship fund that would benefit a Notre Dame student living in Cavanaugh Hall. Dona­tions to the Andy Sowder fund will be acepted at the door before each production. 

r 
II I 
,. ,, 
I, I ' 
I 
I. 
J 
!I 
.I 
.i 
1 
1 
l
\ 
I 
~·~~--------­
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
In the NHL last night, Boston shut down Edmonton 4-1, Calgary beat Winnipeg 3-1 and Philadelphia edged Quebec in overtime 3-2. Vancouver stayed alive in the race for the final playoff spot in the Smythe Division and slowed the N.Y. Islanders' drive to the playoffs, 5-2, but Los An­geles beat Buffalo 5-3 to stay eight points ahead of the Canucks. -Associated Press 
In the NBA last night, New Jersey surprised Chicago 109-107, Washington edged Boston 106-103 and Houston han­dled Portland 119-104. In a battle of division leaders, At­lanta beat Dallas 120-112, Denver downed Seattle 123-113, Sacramento beat Phoenix 124-115 and the L.A. Lakers downed Detroit, 128-111. The L.A. Clippers had the night off. -Associated Press 
The An Tostal ultimate frisbee tournament will have an organizational meeting Tuesday, March 31 at 7:30p.m. at 123 Niewland for those interested in forming teams. For more information contact Pat Dunne 283-1562. 
-The Observer 

The ND gymnastics club will host the first annual Clover Classic Gymnastics Invitational Sunday at 1 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. The field will include teams from Purdue, Indiana, Chicago and Miami (Ohio). -The Observer 
The ND rugby club will open its spring season Saturday with a home match against St. Bonaventure at Stepan field. The A game will begin at 1 p.m., followed by Band C games. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVI schedules can be picked up team captains Monday, March 30 at the SAB office on the second floor of LaFortune between 3-6 p.m. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 283-4074. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
Friday, March 27, 1987-page 12 
JoanKroc sells Padres 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -San Diego Padres owner Joan Kroc has agreed to sell the team to Seattle owner George Argyros, · who put the Mariners on the market Thursday as a step toward winning approval of the Padres transaction. 
Argyros said his purchase of the Padres would satisfy his desire to stay in baseball, while allowing him to keep a closer eye on his real estate interests in Southern California and spend more time with his fam­ily in Newport Beach. 

Word that Argyros was buying the team rekindled speculation that the Padres would renew efforts to sign free agent outfielder Tim Raines, but Argyros downplayed the suggestion. 
1'be ObMiwer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· 
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 
through Friday. 1'be Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of 
Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday 
I 
through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must
l 
be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five 
' j Classifieds characters per day. 
I 
LARGEST selection of Cliff-Monarch WE WERE GOING TO TAKE AWAY David Niven, Sean Connery. George Maria, happy binhday to next year's best RIDE NEEDED: To New York City ASAP. 
Notes in Michianal Bu)I'Sell--textbooks YOUR BIRTHDAY, BUT... WE Lazenby, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton RA. I bet this is a surprize. Love, KenPlease call David Hennekes at 3670.
NOTICES $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard FIGURED YOU HAVE ENOUGH TROU­and the best Bond of them all, B. David and Terry St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 BLE WITH CALCULUS (AND BREATH­Lennert •• all coming soon to a DRAIN Wordprocessing· Typing ING) WITHOUT BEING YOUNGER near you. Stay tuned for more details. The sky is not Blue 272-8827 .....ENGINEER'S WEEK""'"' THAN EVERYBODY. SO, GREGORY But I am.FOR SALE HERE'S TO A NEW YORK BODY (A TILEX THE DOME!!! Marta, whatever happened to You? ""'ENGINEER'S WEEK""• 
CONNECTICUT PATCH) AND THE MOST OSTENTATIOUS, SHOWY, TIM You've
Typing Compact Disk Player for sale. Audiophile DALEY: never been 
Free Pickup and Delivery '"•'ENGINEER'S WEEK'""' DASHING, PRETENTIOUS, JAUNTY, scoped?!?l Ha!l Right... NIKI...
quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program· 

GRAND, POMPOUS, FLAUNTING, Let's Pretend We're Marned'
277·7406 mabie. Remote. Lists for $1,295.00 but B THERE OR B"•2 FLASHING FLAMING, GLITTERING, MOLLIE-"I JUST CAN'T HELP BUT

will sell for $600.00. Call evenings before GAY, AND THEATRICAL MAN­FALL IN LOVE WITH YOU." HAPPY
10 pm et 277·5912 or days at239-7133. PRO-TYPE MARCH 30 • APRIL 3 

NERISMS SINCE LEN. AND FOR BIRTDAY. LOVE, MARK SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE YOUR PRESENT..• A FREE FRENCH SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS SIGN UPS
i Quality wortl, word processing Round trip ticket to D.C. for Easter $100. availability, reeaoneble $. 277-5833. If interested call Tash at 277 5626 ER, FRENCH BRAID FROM CATHY FRI 3-26 & MON 3-30 1-5 PM IN LAFOR­
I Pete -· Just found out its your b-day so 
AND, WELL YOU'VE GOirEN EVERY· TUNE MAIN LOUNGE. DONT MISS IT
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CANDY LYONhave a ragin' one! 
THING ELSE, SO HAPPY BIRTHDAY !!!!!I SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE VERY PHYSICAL, VERY SLAPSTICK,
, 
Rob 
GREG SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL VERY DIRTYIII SEE THE GAP LOVE VA, NEVER CHANGE
1 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GREG1 HAPPY BIRTHDAY GREG SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHOMORE 
MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
Pete,

I Wordproceeslng It's been four long, lonely, cold winter SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHQ. 
i 
Next time you put your stress down call
277-8131 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET months for Candy Lynn. MORE SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS SIGN 
me. There's lots to be said. Oh ... and
CHICAGO-SYRACUSE Alex V.·You CAVE MAN! But today is her birthday, so if you'd like UPS FRI 3-27 & 300 1-5 PM IN LAFOR­
Happy 20th.

APRIL 16 (6:30p.m.)·APRIL This weekend is gonna be a blastl You to help warm her up, or just wish her a TUNE MAIN LOUNGE . DONT MISS 
·fellow 'Beach Boy" fan

{ 
20(3:00p.m.) jerk I can't believe you read this! happy birthday, call her at 1759. IT!!!!! SOPHOMORE SIBS SOPHO· 
TypingWord Processing 277·5014 $118 or BEST OFFER Anyways·Thanks for asking; I couldn't MORE SIBS SOPHOMORE SIBS ..... ENGINEER'S WEEK"""
(312) 973-7235(eve) have a better date! JMW VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY SIGNUPS • 
............................................................:... 

NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR EASTER (312) 750·5126(day) WVFI·AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! 
THIS WEEK • EG STUDENT CENTER woof, woof
CALL HELEN AT 3874 WVFI-AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! 
COMPUTER MATCHUPS • FORMS IN SOPHOMORESIBSSOPH
HUEY LEWIS AND THE NEWS TIX, PIZ· New Thompson Chain-Reference Bible, CUSHING ZA, TANNING SALON VISITS, HAIR· 0 M 0 R E S I B S SIGN UPS FRI 3-27 top-grain leather, marked PIE EATING CONTEST· (AREN'T YOU Thanks for the suppon. & MON 3-30 1·5 PM LA FORTUNE MAIN 
NIV,slightly Mom & Dad, CUTS, DINNERS FOR TWO AT LOCAL $45. Call Bill at 239·5615 HUNGRY?)-NEXT WED 3:15 SIGN UP Things will get better. Thanks for pointing LOUNGE. DONT MISS IT!!!I! S 0 P H
RESTAURANTS, CAKES AND PIES,
I LOST/FOUND I 

IN EG STUDENT CENTER out part of what it means to be on a team. OMORESIBSSOPHOMOR
AND MORElli!! TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM 
PINEWOOD DERBY • (REMEMBER Gumby E SIBS
64 FOR GIVEAWAYS 
THE BOY SCOUT DAYS?) -NEXT
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF 

Hey Dudel Went to look cool? THURS 7:30 PICK UP KITS IN EG STU· ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, CAILINFOUND CALL 2905 
I'm selling my new PX 2000 Vuamets for DENT CENTER OR CALL JOHN £3698 CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG CON· STUBBS
SO JEFF-I HEAR THE POLICE HAVE 
$70. They are worth $85. I got them for OR CHRIS £1704 TEST ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST Love, Mom, Dad, Mo and Anne
LOST: Thurs., March 12 at Duke's, a sil· BEEN USING NMR RADAR DETEC­
my birthday, and if I return them. I'll hurt ERG CONTEST ERG CONTEST ERG
ver bracelet composed of a chain of little TORS... 
Mom's feelings. (SooHoo) Call Tami at THE GAP IS COMING THE GAP IS
masks. It was my only christmas present CONTEST ERG CONTEST Saturday & that I liked, so please return to Megan 4376 soon. COMING THE GAP IS COMING Sunday at the Fieldhouse Mall, 12-6 p.m. COLE COLE COLE COLE COLE Jim(?) It was Mon.Feb 23·SMC library x1242 Support NO Crew and beat your friends lounge by phone. You said you were a
Happy 20th Blrthdeyllll
Great golf clubs for salel Cheapi21·PW, Anyone interested in being at the same time. Takes less than two sr. from Philly, working for Hesburgh
COLE COLE COLE COLE COLE 
1,3,5W, putt, bag. Call Eric at 1758. SAB ASSISTANT CONTROLLER minutes to win a dinner at the Loft. issue for Observer-Who'Nhere R U?
Found-shoes in NO Golf Course lot last Happy 20th Nicole Lsmboleyl We've 
contsct Jeff et 32•2 ASAP. Poaltlons Please respond!
Friday. Call 239-6767. panied, we've Padred, done the Lee's 
avellsbla for publicity, depoalts, snd WHO IS THIS MYSTERIOUS AP· 
Ribs thing. What more could a roomie 
dlabursernents controls. 

PENDAGE NAMED Sacred Heart Church or in South Dining RAGING. (You need no encouragement). 
LOST· Sun.,3'22,on campus in or near want?! Have a great bday, do a little 
"BOB"??? 
Hey Production Guy, even though you're 
TICKETS 

Me thinks David G. doth know...
Hall Cafe.:18k. gold circular lapel pin. In· Love, Cot, Mia, Nance. and The Fisher· 
PRODUCTION STAFF MEETING II All seerng this early, HAVE A GREAT 211!11!
trinsiot Sentimental value. man's Wharf Crew. P.S. PARTY AT 
design editors and assistants, Viewpoint SMC-ND RIGHT TO LIFE ·The Giddy One.
REWARD.232-8732. CAMPUS VIEW! COLE 20 SHOTS 
and Accent layout please attend. Mon· Is Sponsoring 
COLE 20 SHOTS ANN KALTENBACH e.k.a. the formerNeed GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at day, 30 March 1987, 7:30pm, LaFortune "SILENT SCREAM"Found: Earing, gold circular -Monday ANE, I'm glad you like your name In
night. Call Pete at 2546, Rm. 1115 Grace. 2687. The meeting will last until about 8 pm. To be followed by a presentation by 
Signs will be posted on the office doors Donald DeMarco: print. I knew you would. This one does
CAROLINE KLEIN 
not require 1 rasponH. -from your

giving the exact location. As always, "ABORTION & COMPASSION" 
The junior birdmen say Yeehoo to our 
refreshments will be served. BE THERE Saturday, March 28 · 1:00 pm hoosier personals abuser
belchin triple next year! Okay I Luv. WQ. LOST: One pearl earring somewhere in !! Haggar Game Room, SMC • ALL ARE 
MEN I & II or between Lyons and LaFortune the first WELCOME!! . 
week of March. If you found it could you HIGH·TECH PARENTHOOD AND THE Happy Birthday Moira Scully!
I PERSONALS 4 
WE'RE NOT THINKIN' ... WE'RE JUST
please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. DEMISE OF THE FAMILY is the topic ot Sweethean Happy Birthday Doreen Murphy!DANCIN'... RELIVE DAYTONA
Thanks. a speech by Donald DeMarco, Prof. of These are the times to remember. Happy Birthday Pam Sullivan!
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, TONIGHT

Philosophy, U. of St. Jerome. Sponsored Thanks for Senior Formal 2. Only 197 Love, NeiCt year's roommieCARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE by ND·SMC Right To Life days until forever. Love you, CutieBLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ad Beru

7:30pm Thurs. in the Utile Theatre, Hawaiian Dance! Hawaiian Dance! LaFortune Friday March 271ST SOURCE' BANK
FOR RENT

" 
., 1:OOpm Saturday in the Game Room, ATIENTION: Due to the immense Love you! 7:30 to 10:00 PM 
Buy or INN a cer. 238-2200. Flnenc· 

SMC Haggar College Center shonage of beautiful people on campus at Logan Center
I lng available for ell US states. Wilhemina
I FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO this weekend, Senior Bar will be closed. FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 The Club, however, will relocate to r HAPPY 21st BITHDAY Chicago for the time being. So order your Lsndry
Brian & Paul

FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT Maria Morin Coronas now! Thanks for the visit! You'll have to take
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. Interested in a refiii?...Today ... 5:00 ...613
SCHOOL YEAR 255·3684288·0955 Sunday March 29, 1987 a rain check for me to return the favor •
PE... be there! Anne & Maria
Love Lisa & Lisa Chris: Do all real men use after shave last minute plans are taking me home, two 4 bedroom hses for rent 87-88; $450· to clean their contact lenses? and not to SMC, this weekend. Sorry. 
500. 234·9364 ............................................. Yours in Moroccan madness, Ma).be neiCt weekend. .
TO THE GIRL IN GREEN OUTFIT WITH 
BOB GOT A JOB! Drought, Sprout, and Egg Roll Chris
" Spring Break Travel to New York?" GREEN SHOES ON SUNDAY NIGHT
6 bedroom 4-6 students $400SOO & 

" Buy Now & Save •• PIEDMONT FLIGHT. YOU SAT IN 18C,
utilities. Security system 234 6688 BOB GOT A JOB! 

•• $90 RT Tix to Newark .. I WAS IN 18E. LET'S GET TOGETHER 
PLANT LOVERS OF THE WORLD BE-PETER GEGEN
•• Leave 312, Return 3-21 " JOHN 2282.
BOB GOT A JOB! 

WARE! The Birthday Boyl" Call X3586 NOW " 
That madman from El Salvador, Gian· Did you think you'd escape? Not aWANTED carlo Miranda, has been spotted in Cal· PRODUCTION PEOPLE: If you don't CHANCE. Hope it is happy. We love you.
BOB GOT A JOB! ifornia christening plants with his own show up for the staff meeting mentioned ·Mom, Dad, Matt Hay, Bob got a job! special fertilizer. His most common elsewhere in the classifleds, you will be Kristin, Tim, and Laura TYPISTS • $500 weekly at home! Write: victims are large, potted plants in public locked in the production closet and
DRUIDS

P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 places. To avoid losing your precious beaten with pica poles until you are dead, Bob got a job ptant to this crazed plant killer. lock your dead, dead. BOYI NOW THEY FORCE ME TO SAY 
There is

SUMMER JOBS a meeting for all Druids and Bob got a job "quor cabinet and keep ptants indoors. HI. LIKE I WOULDN'T DO IT ANYWAY? 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS Druids-to-be to discuss the upcoming Bob got a job This hes bean e message from the ENOUGH OF THAT.... HI TO ALL
DAN, FOR NOW YOUR TAN MAY BE PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK Spring Solstice Ceremony and other Bob got a job Society tor the DARKER, BUT WATCH OUT HON BE· THOSE GREAT GIRLS I KNOW AT SMC important matters. Refreshments are, as
MOUNTAINS Bob realty did gat a job. Prevention of Cruelty to Potted Plants CAUSE YOU CAN NEVER TRULY WIN ROB CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 always, provided by the Archclruid. Call 
OUT OVER A CONFIRMED CALIFOR­
381--4224 him lor more informatiOn. If you have any 

NIA SURF CHICK! ENJOY YOUR questions, commune with Stonehenge N.D. GLEE CLUB SPRING CONCERT S And Roto: Welcome to April Fool's SMAU VICTORY WHILE IT. LASTS. HEY, EVERYONE and you will find the answers. 8:15 p.m.·Fri., April 3 Washington Hall Week . . . HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA LETS PADRE TO THE MAX THIS
YOUR CALIFORNIA BUDDY 
HOUSEMATES NEEDED JUNE OR Ticket IIOUCher distribution Tues., Mar. 
HAHAHAHAHAHM'AHA WEEKEND FALL HAVE NICE PLACE INTER· Stonehenge lives ... 31-1 p.m. • 3 p.m. Washington Hall HAHAHAHAHAHA ~AHAHA! P.S.: You THE TEQUILA·PONCHO GUY
Hey, Stanford Studsl Elect "Mr. BIG" for ESTED? CALL CHRIS 287·3940 Manager's Office 
eredeld! the job Marc Gianzero for President 
The Observer 
Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 13 


The Observer I Michael Ury 
women's tennis team should be at full strength this weekend. 
helle Dasso (above) at number-one doubles, the 
Aggressive net play, Lohrer's return key weekend women's tennis action 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team plays on its home courts for the first time this spring as it hosts Indiana State tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. and Mic­higan at 11:00 a.m. Sunday. 
Head Coach Michele Gelfman is looking for the Irish to play a more aggressive style of tennis, though she notes that does not entail trying to out-gun their opponents. 
"We need to play an intelli­gent rather than power game," said Gelfman. "We need to use 

Within wa1ktng distance to the Unl verslty of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy Road south Bend, Indiana 45537 
"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reservations call (219) 277-9562 
a variety of shots, be a little more. patient and play percentage tennis." 
The Irish have not faced In­diana State under Gelfman's tutelage, and last year's 5-4 loss to Michigan was decided on a third-set tiebreaker. 
One thing that should help the Irish is the return of freshman Alice Lohrer, who missed several matches due to illness. Junior co-captain Michelle Dasso will especially be glad to see Lohrer back in the lineup, since the two comprise the number-one doubles team. 
''Alice and I play very well together, especially at the Min­



nesota Doubles Invitational 
eariler this year," said Dasso. 
"The play of our doubles team 
will be really important, so 
we've got to concentrate on 
what we've been working on." 
Dasso recognizes too that 
since moving from the number­
three spot last year to the top 
spot, she has had to incorporate 
a more aggresive style in 
singles action. 

"I've had to be more aggres­
sive because when you play 
number-one singles, you've got 
to come to the net,'' said Dasso. 
According to Assistant Coach Steve Simone, the team has -concentrated on the transition from the baseline. 
"Our players are learning that the ability to attack the net creates opportunities to win more points. We want to win points aggressively, rather than waiting for the other teams to lose those points, " said Simone. 
The difficulty, however, rests on the ability of a youthful squad to maintain consistancy with this new aggressive style. 
Notre Dame will play this weekend's matches at the Courtney Tennis courts behind the ACC. In the event of rain the matches will be played at the South Bend Racquet Club. 

Applications are now being accepted for 
1988 DOME Editor-in-Chief 


• 
Applications available in Student Activities Office. 

• 
Must be returned to Student Activities by 4:30 on Wednesday, April 1. 

• 
Everyone encouraged to apply. 




13-8 men's tennis team faces Purdue, Ind. St. 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
While rain showers late Wed­nesday morning kept the Notre Dame men's tennis team off the courts, forcing the Irish to postpone their match with Illinois-Chicago until Thursday, April 16, the team will see action this weekend against Indiana . State and Purdue. 
The Irish are coming off a successful spring break swing through California where they posted a 6-1 record. That per­formance lifted Notre Dame 
over  the  .500  mark  for  the  
season, with  a  13-8  overall  
mark.  

The Irish will put this record to the test Saturday at 1 p.m. CST at Indiana State, and then again at Purdue on Sunday at 9 a.m. CST. Notre Dame is a combined 38-9 against these two opponents, in-state rivals who the Irish first played back in the 1930's. 
Last season Notre Dame defeated Indiana State, 7-2, but 
dropped its match with Purdue 
by the same margin. Fallon ex­
pects to see another competi­
tive Boilermaker team Sun­
day. 

"Purdue has been tough for 
us the last few seasons,'' said 
Fallon. "And they have the 
same team back that defeated 
us last year.'' 
Purdue finished fourth in the 1986 Big Ten Championships, their best showing in 30 years. Boilermaker head coach Ed Dickson hopes to improve that performance this year with a squad of six solid returning let­termen. 
Fallon and the Irish look to counter this experience with momentum from their impres­sive showing over break. 
"We had a very good trip to California," Fallon said, "win­ning 6 of 7 matches and the only defeat was very close (a 5-4 loss to the University of California at Riverside). I hope we can maintain the peak that we are now playing at against Indiana State and Purdue.'' 

The Observer I File Photo Dan Walsh and the Irish men's tennis team will try to use the momentum acquired over spring break when they face Indiana State and Purdue this weekend. 
PIME MISSIONARIES ive t e GOSPEL among t e poor arrl unchurched in the Third World. So that all may l<nJw of God's love. 
Young men 18-35, interested in FREE BCOKI.EI' about 1i fe ..:i a missionary priest in PIME, fill out this ad and send it to: 
PIME Vocati9n Dept. 3731 West 62nd St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767-0620 

~-____________________________Age______ 
Address. _________________________________ ___ 
State Zi
Cit 





~~-----------------· --­
I .' 
The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987-page 14 
l 
I 
' i 

1 
l 
( 
1 
\ 
I 
.· ) 
~ .J 
J 
J 


AP Photo 
Center Rony Seikaly has been the driving force behind Syracuse's path to the Final Four. 
Radio stations direct raps at NCAA rules 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Some local radio stations are having fun playing songs that poke fun at the NCAA's rule barring men­tion of players' names in any public contest apart from news or sports. 
Among the latest is a ditty being played on WZPL-FM called the "NCAA Rap," writ­ten and recorded by the sta­tion's morning traffic reporter, Steve Stiles. 
It spoofs the NCAA rule by rapping the names of the bas­ketball players of the Univer­sity of Nevada-Las Vegas, the opponent of Indiana University Saturday at the Final Four in New Orleans. 
The lyrics are: 
Here's a little song for theN­C-double-A, 'Cause they're trying to tell us what we can and can't say Put a player in a song and then they can't play. What is this, Russia or the U-S of A? 
So here's the starting lineup of U-N-L-V 
We're gonna sing it to you now and then we'll just see. 
Gary. Graham's a good player, but his name's in this song 
Freddie Bank's, a hot guard, but, oops, not for long Gerald Padclio has a strange last name, Now he's in this song and can't play in the game. Finally, then, Armon Gilliam and the fast Mark Wade, If we hadn't sung 'em then they could have played. 
So, hey, N-C-Double-A, you think you've got guts, Take U-N-L-V out, and then we'll know you're nuts. Better do it to 'em now and stop all this fuss, 'Cause the Indiana Hoosiers are going to kick their butts. 
Also Thursday, radio station WENS-FM, which pulled its "Bobby Knight Bop" from the air earlier this week at the re­quest of the university, came up with a new tune, "In the Su­perdome," which features new lyrics to the tune "In the Ghet­to." 
Written and sung by morning show co-host Mark Patrick, the song's lyrics include: 
In the March skies, before a red Final Four chair can be flung, the 'Bobby Knight Bop' is already sung on the radio, 
N-C-A-A cries, 'cause if 


ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272·7144 
GRADUATE NURSU 
Your education will not end with graduatton. As a graduate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week-long, fu tty-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growtt'l opportunities that a world-class medical canter can 
provide~ 

Gradu!Btes apply now for positions available in1987. Statting salary ~$23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acuttr'Cil8 Mlsyo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose gro'Nth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Roche•ter Methodl•t H08pltal 
Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester, MN 55902 
Call Collect: (501) 288-7091 
there's one thing that they don't need, it's another IU song for the fans to sing in the Super­dome. 
Red and White's counting on a three-point hand, we'd call him by name but they don't un­derstand, N-C-A-A. 
They're just little worms. 
So it's Coach Tarkanian against Coach Knight, big ears 
and  a  towel,  'gainst  a  red  
sweater  tight  in  the  Super­ 
dome."  


Lady Longhorns look to repeat as champs 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Andrea Lloyd is regarded as women's basketball's answer to Boston Celtics star Larry Bird. 
She would rather pass than score. Tough defense is her trademark. And she wants the basketball in the "crunch minutes" of a close game. 
If the University of Texas Lady Longhorns are to repeat as NCAA women's national basketball champions, they'll have to get two big games from the only senior on their team, Lloyd. 
The 6-foot-2 All-American from Moscow, Idaho, provided the key points as Texas defeated Rutgers 85-77 in the final of the East Regional. 
Lloyd, who plays three differ­ent positions, averages 13 points, nine assists, three rebounds and three steals a game. In the NCAA Tourna­ment, she is shooting 65 percent from the field, 71 percent at the free throw line and has 15 steals in three games. 
"Andrea is the heart of our team," Texas coach Jody Con­radt says. "She's our leader. There is no better player in col­lege basketball. Her defense is just incredible. She's the most complete player I've seen.'' 
Lloyd has been giving her younger teammates some lec­tures this week. 
"I keep thinking how young this team is and I want to con­vey to the younger players not 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY GREG! 
. LOVE, ) MOM, DAD, NANNY, & UNCLE VINNIE and assorted conspirators 
.;-~,_ 
__-':,:-> .
..•.......·.·.·.·.·".·.·········­
.f 
( ,-.-: 
Andrea Lloyd 
to blow this chance we have," Lloyd said. "I don't have an­other chance. 

"I think it hurts us that we're young. Look at Louisiana Tech, where they have all senior starters. I just don't want our team to settle for less because they know they can come back next year.'' 
Louisiana Tech, the 1982 champion, has knocked Texas out of two regionals and again stands in the Lady Longhorns' championship path as the sixth annual tournament gets under­way on Friday with the semi­final games. 
The Lady Techsters, who are 29-2, take on the defending na­tional champion Lady Lon­ghorns, 31-1, at 6 p.m. before a sellout house of 16,000 fans in the Special Events Center. Texas has won 25 games in a row. 
Louisiana Tech beat Iowa 66­65 in the final of the Midwest Regional to advance to Austin. 
Film: The Silent Scream and Lecture: 
Abortion and Compassion
, 
by ' Donald DeMarco Professor, Department of Philosophy University of St Jerome's College, Canada Saturday, March 28 1 pm Haggar College Center 
Sponsors-ND I SMC Right to Ute, The Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Ius Vitae, \ The Federalist Society j 
\ 




The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 15 
Final41ess 1 arrive in New Orleans .•
4~.~.~"-­
... ··

Knight keeps team in Bloomington ... ­
. 

Associated Press 
..... 
NEW ORLEANS -Practice 
rrr
and studies are no match for 
.. Cajun cooking and jazz in the 
French Quarter for Indiana 
Coach Bob Knight. 
Top-ranked Nevada Las­Vegas, the Hoosiers' opponent in Saturday's NCAA semifinal, traded the neon lights of their home city Wednesday for the treats of Bourbon Street with the blessing of Coach Jerry Tarkanian. 
Providence and Syracuse, who meet in Saturday's Jerry Tarkanian
opening semifinal at the 
Louisiana Superdome, also ar­are still in class. They go torived Wednesday. 
class today and tomorrow. 

Indiana, however, isn't They'll miss a little class on "We've been there as an un­making the trip until Friday. 
Friday. We'll get there on time derdog before," said Knight, ,"We're going to let the kids to work out on Friday. That's who had to get past favored ·· enjoy themselves tonight," just the way we've always done UCLA in the 1976 NCAA semi­Tarkanian said at a Wednesday it." final before defeating Mic­news conference. "Starting to­Forecasters have made the higan in the championship
morrow we will definitely keep top-ranked Running Rebels a game. He also upset North our team under close scrutiny. 
slight favorite over Indiana Carolina in the 1981 title game. and say UNLV will capture the "We will have them avail­championship Monday. "I'm not really concerned able for the press, because I "I don't think we should be with being favored or being un­
think that's a l€arning experi­favored," Tarkanian said. "I derdog," he added. "I think ence for them." just have great respect for In­there has to be a lot of talk rel­Knight, speaking from the In­diana. I thought all year long ative to who do you think will diana University campus in they were an outstanding team. win the first game...That's Bloomington via a telecon­I find it hard to believe that what makes it interesting for ference that included the Final we're the favorite. I just hope so many people." Four coaches, said his policy all the people who say that Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim 
throughout his coaching career know something." had a simple way to figure who has been to arrive at a tourna­would win. ment site the day before the Knight, going for his third "I think you have to be good. game. NCAA championship and I think you have to play well," 
"It has been my policy for 22 needing a victory to become the he said. "Maybe you have to AP Photo 
or 23 years," he said. "Our kids Nevada-Las Vegas center Jarvis Basnight slams home a rebound 
winningest coach in Big Ten be a little lucky.'' 

against Iowa. 


~~~<.Q'>~~·<Q><Q><Q".<Q>~~~<Q>§ 
Sox blank 
§ ND AVE APTS. §
--~----------------­
r " 

Los Angeles 
t Early Bird Special ~
~tU1t'U.. 

Associated Press
§ §
§ Now renting for Fall § 
Right-hander Dennis "Oil
Restaurant And Cocktail Lounge 

~ 2 Bedrooms completely § Can'' Boyd pitched six score­
Authentic Szechu.n end Hunan Tnte 

less innings Thursday to help
~ furnished § the Boston Red Sox to a 4-0 ex­
hibition victory over the Los
Lunches starting at. ______ s2.95 Sign up before break and t
§§: Angeles Dodgers at Vero
Dinners startinc at. _______ s4.25 

receive a 10o/o discount § Beach. 
lar open 7 day1 a week Boyd, 2-0 this spring, allowed 
.....Tllul"'.: 11 :30 •.•.-10 p.a. 

~ Call 234-6647 § four hits while walking one and
Fri.-Set.: 11:30 L•.-11 ,.•.
I Next to Rondall.s Inn 272·7376 s... 1 Heii<Mys 11:30 L..-11 ,... ~ Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ striking out two. 
Los Angeles right-hander 1 South Bend,130 Dixie Hwy.(RoselandJ '\ Orel Hershiser was nearly asi.•/f-<Q•Q.·~-·Q:·<?->~~!:;;.Y..../f.<Q'··~-~.q.·_q-.0'·0-'>~ effective, allowing the Red Sox only a first-inning run in his 

seven innings. Bill Buckner's RBI double produced the only run Boston needed. 
Braves 3, Tigers 2 
In West Palm Beach, Ken Griffey keyed a three-run seventh inning rally with a bases-loaded double to power Atlanta over Detroit. Tiger right-hander Eric King had held the Braves hitless through the first five innings. 
Rangers 8, Expos 2 
In Port Charlotte, Larry Par­rish hit a three-run homer and Ruben Sierra hit his first home run of the spring to lead Texas over Montreal. The game was called after eight innings be­cause of rain. 
Royals 13, Orioles 6 
In Fort Myers, Frank White hit a three-run home run and Steve Balboni hit a two-run homer as Kansas City clubbed Baltimore. 
Canceled 
Boston (ss) vs. Minnesota, rain; Houston vs. Chicago White Sox, rain; Pittsburgh vs. New York Mets, rain; Philadel­phia vs. Cincinnati, rain; St. Louis vs. Toronto; rain. 
Our Reservation Manager's office hours are: Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday 7:00 -8:00 pm 2nd floor Lafortune in Theodore's Office ... if you have questions or wish to verify your reservation stop in or call 
2:39-6940 

Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network 
special guests 

eorgia Satellites turday, March 28 8: Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A C. C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone VISAMC call (219)239-7460 
! 
l l 
l 
{ 
I \ 
' 
l t i 

{ 
I 


\ 
.\ 

., 
I 
\ 
' 
1 
The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 16 
New Pizza in Packs from Pizza Hut® Delivery! 
Now you can enjoy your favorite pizza twice as much. Get two 14" Family Size Pizza Hut® Pizzas in our new 1Win Packs, delivered hot and fast to your door for just $10.99. A SAVINGS OF OVER $6.00! 
And what's more, you know Pizza Hut® quality goes into every pizza we deliver. So give us a call, Pizza Hut® Delivery is going all out to bring our best ­hqme to you. 
Hours: 
11:00 
AM · 12:00 Midnight Sunday-Thursday 

11:00 
AM -2:00AM Friday -Saturday 


Our Pizza '!Win Pack Offer! 
'IWo 14" Family Size Pizza Huf Pizzas For Just$ 

' 
e e SAVE OVER $6.00 
Now save on toppings, too. Additional toppings at $1.29 per topping covers BOTH pizzas. For two 14" Family Size Pizzas you pay only: (With Coupon Below) 
Cheese .................... $10.99 3 Toppings .................$14.86 1 Topping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.28 Supreme (6 Toppings) . . . . . . . . 14.86 2 Toppings .........._. . . . . . . 13.57 Super Supreme (9 Toppings) . . . . 16.15 
For Fast Delivery Call: 

232-2499 
'c;, 19H7 Pizl".<~ Hut. Inc. Limited Delivery Area
r---------------T---------------1 
1 'IWo 14" Family Size Pizzas! 1 'IWo 16" Party Size Pizzas! 1 I $}0 99 1Wo 14" Cheese Pizzas-$10.99 I $}3 99 Two 16" Cheese Pizzas-$13.99 I 
1 • Addition~] toppings at $1.2~ 1 • Additional toppings at $1.89 I SAVE _OVER ss.oo! per toppmg covers BOTH piZzas! sAVE OVER ss.oo! per topping covers BOTH pizzas!
I I I
V<tliJ only <tt p<trticipatin~ Pia.<~ Hut'~, Delivery units in V<tl iJ only <tt p<trt icipat in~ Pizza Hut'"> Delivery units in
I South Bend. Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for dine in I South Bend. Mishawaka and Osceola. Not valid for Jine in 1 or c<trryout. One coupon per party per dcliwry. Not valid in ~ or c'arryout. One coupon per party per delivery. Not valid., in ....._ comhination with any other Pizza Hut'"' offer. $15. char~e 1 comhination with any other Pizza Hutl!il offer. $15. char~e ~ 1
I 

on all returned checks. ~ ~a on all returned checks. nl...~ 
: C~I';Iy2312m~2499h4 lfi H7. :Jiut® : C~I';Iy2312m~2499h4/16/87. !iJ~t® : 
' I'IK7 1'11.1..o llul In, Our tlnwr' ,.rn "" mun· th.m ~~~~ I :.!IK '·"h rnl,·mrtoun \'.1111,. l.muh·J Jdown ,,,,.•1 I • I'IKI l'ou., I lui. hh Our Jnwr-,·.rn nu mnrl' l11dn $~'11 I :!IK .-;,sh ,,.J,·mrllun \';,Ill<'. l.nnii,·.J .Jo.·hwry "''';,
L ----------------L---------------_J 
......... -.. -. . . . . .. . . .. ~ -~ . ---·· 

i ..· 
.' rI ' , 
: l r 
.. l ,'' 

The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987-page 17 
Hamilton leads So. Miss. to title in 84-80 win over LaSalle in final 
Associated Press died from 3-point range, with 14 points, and Legler, with 
making only four of 24 for the 12, were the only other double­
NEW YORK -Derrek Hamil­game after hitting nine of 15 in figure scorers for La Salle. 
ton scored 10 of his 17 points the semifinals against Keys, who had 42 points and 
during a 16-4 streak that lifted Arkansas-Little Rock. 18 rebounds in the semifinal 
Southern Mississippi to the and final, was named most 
state's first Division I After Hamilton's spurt, Sim­valuable player of the tourna­
postseason basketball champi­mons had five of La Salle's ment. Hamilton, Tarr, Sim­
onship, an 84-80 decision over seven consecutive points that mons, Derrick Vick of 
La Salle on Thursday night in got the Explorers within three. Nebraska and James Dawn of 
the 50th National Invitation They also got as close as 64-61 Arkansas-Little Rock made the 
Tournament final. with 7: 25 left before Fisher hit all-tournament team. 
two 3-pointers to help Southern 

In the third-place game, Ne­Miss gain a 77-67 advantage. Southern Mississippi led 39­
braska downed Arkansas­34 at halftime, but it could have 
Little Rock 76-67 in overtime. Again, La Salle tried to catch been much worse for the Ex­
Hamilton had two 3-point up, with three baskets by Sim­plorers, who missed 15 of their 
goals during the spurt that mons, two free throws by Rich first 18 shots. Still, La Salle 
gave the Golden Eagles, 23-11, Tarr and a rebound basket by trailed only 11-8 at that point 
a 59-48 lead with 10: 13 left. Craig Conlin making it 82-80 despite going more than five 
' 

Hamilton had three 3-pointers with 21 seconds to go. After La minutes without scoring. 
for the game and Casey Fisher Salle got the ball back on a five­
had 18 points on six long-range second violation, Tim Legler The Explorers, who trailed 
shots for Southern Miss, which missed a potential tying shot. by as many as 11 points in the 
had 11 3-pointers. John White then made two first half, came back after 
free throws with six seconds halftime to go ahead 44-43 with 
La Salle, 20-13, had three remaining, clinching the vic­17:06 remaining. Keys started 
comebacks that fell short in the tory. the 16-4 spurt with a basket 
closing minutes, led by fresh­before Hamilton scored the 
man star Lionel Simmons, who Randolph Keys also had 18 Golden Eagles' next eight 
had 34 points. points for the Golden Eagles points to make it 55-46 with 
But ultimately the Explorers and Kenny Siler added 17. Tarr, 11:22 to go. 

Rehder will sub for Dolan and on 4 Slamm J amma. each other. Steve Beuerlein And yes, University
Spring 

and Mike Kovaleski return to President-elect Monk Malloy 
continuedfrom page 20 Lee's. Their opponents in last will play Bookstore again on a are back, the same squad that year's final, Leone's Stallions, team called, what else, All The has calculated wind velocities is back intact. President's Men. 
The Sports Department is now accepting applications for the 
with its slide rules and then Other squads which appear Is it Tuesday yet? 
following position: 
sank halfcourt shots two years to be early favorites are The running. Brothers of Manhood featuring And don't worry Lou, you're Tim Brown, Joel Williams and One quick word on this
Assistant Sports Editor (1) 

on a team. In fact, your team Donald Royal. Former Mr. weekend's NCAA Final Four. 
includes Jim Dolan, last year's Bookstore Lou Nanni will It would be interesting to see 
tournament MVP. And Coach, replace his brother Chris, now UNLV take on Providence for 
A one-page personal statment is due Tuesday, March 31, at 5 
you play the Esophagus Con­a varsity walk-on, on Tequila the championship. The Runnin' 
p.m. at the Observer office, third floor LaFortune. Questions 
str'ictors Tuesday at 4 p.m. White Lightning. Former Irish Rebels and the Friars were the 
should be directed to Dennis Corrigan there or at 239·5303. 
basketball player Jeff Peters two leading three-point shoot­
Last year's champions, Lee's and future Irish football player ing teams in the NCAA this BBQ Roundhouse, is back mi­Tony Rice have hooked up on year. If those two met Monday nus Dolan, according to Wenc. a team called Carte Blanche. night, there would be 19 feet,Rick DiBernardo and Tom Former Irish basketball player nine inches (or 21 feet, depend­



Applications are now being accepted for the following positions at Theodore's until Friday, April 3rd: 


* General Manager 
* 
Programming Director 

* 
Promotions Director 

* 
Reservations Manager 

* 
Catering Manager 




Applications are available at the Office of Student Activities 301 LaFortune Student Center 

..... .:r ~ .. ·• ... -• 
and current graduate assistant ing from what you're measur­coach Tom Sluby is back with ing) of wasted space at either Top Gun, while Scott Hicks is end of the court. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Day or evemng classes • Wide array of courses in Bus1ness. Arts and Sciences. Educat1on. Nurs1ng • All summer courses applicable to regular Loyola University degrees • Classes at the Lake 'shore. Water Tower. and Medical Center Campuses. Special this summer • Art and Archaeology in Mex1co. 
FIRST SESSION (6 weeks begmning May 18) 
Regrstration by mail or in person• MAY 11. 9•00 -12•00 200-6•00 
SECOND SESSION (6 weeks beg1nning June 29) 
Registration by mail or rn person• JUNE 16. 10:00-1 :00 3•00-6•00 
All in-person registrations in the Georgetown Room of the Marquette Center, 820 North Rush Street, Chicago 
Telephone 312/670-3011 or complete the coupon below to receive a copy of the 1987 Bulletin of The Summer Sessrons. The Bulletin includes complete course listings as well as information on how to regis­ter by mail or in person. 
LOIOLA. REAL VAWES FOR JOUR MOIH. 
I ---------------­
~ The Summer Sessions I 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
I I
® 820 North Michigan Avenue • Chicago. illinois 60611
I I
NAME __________.____ PHONE ____ 
I I
~E~-----------------------------------­
QTY STATE ZIP 
I

I 
We -.an '!QUal OllPO'I"""v educaiO<'~ I : L L----------------~ 

The Observer Friday, March 27, 1987-page 18 
-

'·· Track hosts ND Invitational after sending eight to Tuscon 
By MOLLY MAHONEY number of people we can enter Sports Writer in an event and it gives the 
j; .. • 

team the chance to see what After eight members of the they can do in events they Notre Dame track team opened might not normally participate 
'IJilll!l1' • 

their outdoor season in Tuscon in." last weekend, they returned The sprinters will carry the home to join the rest of the largest burden for the Irish this 
team as they prepare to host meet. And strong perfor­the Notre Dame Invitational mances from Nobles in the BOO­this Saturday. meter run, Searcy in the 400­The eight-member entour­meter dash, and freshman 
age, participated in the Willie Glen Watson, who will lead the Williams Invitational in Tus­contingent of Irish hurdlers, con. Freshman Tom Kraus led will also be keys to a successful the team by winning the shot meet. put competition and placing in "We have a decent team," 
the discus. said Piane, "and this meet will Junior Tim Smith and sopho­be our first chance to prove it. more Mike Napier competed in 
The Irish will take to 
their first meet of the year in 
Monogram track this Saturday
\ 
the discus and javelin, respec­at 1 : 00 to open the outdoor
; I J 
tively, because neither event is 
season.

. 1 \ 
offered during the indoor
·1 11 
season. 

Senior Robert Nobles, junior The Observer 1 Robert Jones Nick Sparks and sophomoreThe Irish lacrosse team travels to Geneva, N.Y. previews the action beginning on page 20. David Warth made the transi­
) ~ 
to face Colgate tomorrow. Steve Megargee tion to the outdoor season by
l l 
competing in the 800-meter
I 
I 
run.

~ { 3-point makers. Ron) Seikaly is playing ex­
The team ran freshman Yan 
The Friars finished fourth in tremely well.'' 
Bomb 


I
I i 
1 
'l I 
j 
I 
1 
1 
( 
! 
) 
\ I. 
~ 
Il 
! \\ ' 
li 
I ·. 
I JI 
' J·~ 
! J i i • \ 
I 
Searcy in the 400-meter dash
the Big East regular season Oregon State's Ralph Miller, 
continuedfrom page 20 

but missed the presence of fel­
and are the lowest seed (No. 5 

the dean of Division I coaches, 
Monroe, and has made 93 of low sprinter junior Tony
in the Southeast) to get this far. said, "Any four teams are ca­
230. Ragunas who was unable to
Both UNLV (West) and In­pable of winning."
UNLV, with Freddie Banks compete due to injury.
diana (Midwest> were No. 1 

and Gerald Paddio leading the Of those coaches inter­The team officially opens its 
seeds and Syracuse (East) was 

way, has thrown up 746 bombs, viewed, only Evans had a outdoor season this Saturday
the No. 2 seed. 

making 40 percent. Banks strong view on the outcomes, and will host an eight-team
In a sampling of coaches who 

made 142 and Paddio 85. picking Indiana and Syracuse field that includes teams from
are meeting in New Orleans in 

The Runnin' Rebels, coached to meet in the title game. Western Michigan, Loyola and 
connection with the Final Four, 

by Jerry Tarkanian, are on the "Probably Syracuse's inside Valparaiso.
most agreed that both games

biggest roll of all with a 22-game will take its toll on Prov­This invitational is a non­
were tossups. 

game winning streak in quest idence. When Bobby Knight scoring meet, but it is a wel­of their first NCAA crown. "It's wide open, a tough has a week to prepare, he can comed opportunity for both Providence hit 43 percent of call," said Frieder, who added beat anybody." coach and athlete to experi­his long-range shots on 275 of that he picks Big Ten rival In­And the winner will be? ment with different events. 
646. Billy Donovan, 96; Er­diana and Syracuse to win. "In­"I hope for Syracuse," "We can't win but we can't nie"Pop" Lewis, 94, and D'el­diana has been in every game Evans said, "but probably In­lose," said Head Coach Joe ray Brooks, 65, head the Friar this season and (Syracuse's diana." Piane. "We have no limit the 


Sponsored by Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering University of Notre Dame 



~c:»cJlC3L~-----------------------------------------F-r-ida•y-,M-ar-ch_2_7,_198-7--p-ag_e-19 

Bloom County 

Pf~IR t'r1UR.IJEf?{)(S Fa:T 5VS~NPW S'AfflY .480V~ 1!EIR (JNXEN MTHI?@I 
IN 111~ Sff./N6 GRA5S eeltJW, 1H€ 
NtJV-MW t:ATlN&, tiCW-ff5TK:I~­
rREA~fJ-~1119tli 61/TlN& I NON­
IWfMAL-Tl:STW-Ma?fCI$ f./SING , 
M:W-fJ/111\Y CONS</Jf11NG I S'mCTI..Y 
COT'flJV-fWfJ-Pol.Y€5m?. URAKfN& 
''Cf<ITW?.. flfF~N/Je?9"' ~ 
11£ HAPPY fi1CT mnr 7H€Y 11/?e" 
ffNAUY... 7011/UY.H CtJWUTtt.Y 
~tK/5r7NG IN ro'tCI: WrrH llt.L. 
lift cw 1Hf5 PtAN&r.H 
Beer Nuts 
Campus 
FRIDAY 12:15-1:15 p.m.: Friday Forum: "Aut­hority and Democracy: Paulo Freire and the Philosophy of Education" by College of Arts & Letters Assistant Dean Alven Neiman, soup and bread for $1 or bring brown bag, Center for Social Concerns, Multipurpose Room 7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie: "American Graffiti," $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Se­ries: "Purple Rose of Cairo," directed by Woody Allen, Annenberg Auditorium SATURDAY 8 a.m. -3 p.m.: Indiana Tailored Testing Program, Engineering Auditorium 9 a.m. -12 p.m.: Northern Indiana Regional Science and Engineering Fair, judged By Notre Dame AFROTC Cadets. Sponsored by South Bend community School Corportion, Stepan Center 1 p.m.: Lecture: "Abortion and Compas­sion," by Prof. Donald DeMaraco, St. Jerome's College, Ontario, Sponsors: NMMC Right to Life Group, Intercol­legiate Studies Institute, Ius Vitae, and the Federalist Society, Haggar College Center 1 p.m.: Tennis, NDW vs. Indiana State, Courtney Courts 1 -4:30 p.m.: ND Track Invitational, Carter Field 7 & 9 p.m.: SMC Opening Reception for Senior Comprehensives II, All Galleries 8 p.m.: REO Speed wagon Concert, All seats $15.50, ACC 
-~ ·----·---. &.-=Y~~. --­
----Ihe-O.bse"'-~0E-­

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Far Side Gary Larson
Berke Breathed 
Mark Williams 

SUNDAY 9 a.m.: 56th Annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast commemorating the anniversary of Knute Rockne's death; speaker: Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., University president-elect, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Val­ley, for information, contact Kevin Kelly at 4811 11 a.m.: Tennis, NDW vs. University of Michigan, Courtney Courts 1 p.m.: Baseball, ND vs. Indiana Uni­versity (2-7), Jake Kline Field 3 p.m.: SMC Graduate Artists Recital Series: Leighann Narum, Guitar, Little Theatre 4 p.m.: Wrestlemania III, $12 and $9, closed circuit TV, ACC 
Dinner Menus · · Notre Dame 
Egg Rolls Cheese Ravioli Baked Cod with Lobster Sauce Grilled Tuna Melt on Rye 
Saint Mary's 
Apple Pancakes Cod Parisienne Shrimp Jambalaya Deli Bar 


• 

''You ever do this? ... Just sit in a place like this and antwatch." 
The Daily Cross"Word 
ACROSS 1 Minute 
quantity 5 Den 9-Gay 

14 Vena­15 Story start 16 More plucky 17 Start of a 
DeVoto quote 19 Titan 20 Long time 21 Marble streak 22 Snifter drink 23 Abhor 25 Urge on 26 Corrode 27 Boat part .... 28 Charged 
particle 31 Musical 

instrument 34 More of quote 36 Pitching 
error 37 Football team 38 Elation 39 More of quote 
All Rights Reserved
41 Vice for 

Midas 42 More of quote 7 Sacred statue 43 Pharmacy item 8 Ump's cousin 44 Majors 9 Oriental food 45 Egg layers 1 0 River nymph 46 Trusted 11 Muscat's land 
counselors 12 Bestow 50 Deep gorge temporily 53 Pseudologist 13 Chi-chi 54 Modest 18 Of birds 55 Edit 22 Makes tea 56 End of quote 24 Mountaintops 58 Slight color 25 Showy flower 59 Skin condition 27 Mound 60 Designer 28 Unemployed 
Cassini 29 Curved 
61 Finished molding 62 Title 30 Requirement 63 Malacca 31 Sad notice 
32 Hasty 

DOWN 33 Stickum 1 Performed 34 Slays 2 Western resort 35 Heron 46 "Pooh" creator 511di­3 Bakers 37 Singer Frankie 47 Fla. city 52 Sell 4 Off one's 40 Turned over 48 Season's 53 "Arsenic and 
rocker 41 Sort second crop Old-" 5 Most base 44 Rented 49 lr. dramatist 56 Craze 6 "-Hall" 45 Door part 50 Value 57 Medico 


3/27/87 
-



\ 
l 
l 
1 
1 
'1 
I 1 l 
1  I  
1  J  
I  r  
~  1  

r 
j ' 
" 
jl, li 
\ J i' 
.'< )!\ 
> I 
J; 
, I ' , I 
' 
. 
II! 
~ .·' 
! 
j;l
J p 
~ ., 
1 
_,.........,_...__,.,.....-_.......,.,_________ 

Friday, March 27, 1987 -page 20
SRorts 

Rivers undergoes surgery to correct complications from auto injury 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
a road in Elkhart County. Rivers was thrown through the Sports Editor 
windshield and suffered a 15­
Irish basketball guard David inch laceration across his ab­Rivers underwent surgery domen. Thursday for complications stemming from the auto acci­Rivers came back from the dent he was involved in last injury to lead the Irish into the summer, according to Athletic NCAA sweet 16 before losing to Department spokesman John North Carolina, 74-68, last Heisler. · Thursday night. Rivers 
Surgeons at St. Joseph Medi­averaged 15.7 points per game, cal Center removed scar tissue including three-straight 20-plus that had been twisting Rivers' point games in the NCAA bowel. Rivers had been ad­Tournament, and had 163 as­mitted to the Notre Dame in­sists, the second-highest firmary Tuesday complaining season total in Notre Dame his­
·-,
of flu-like symptoms. Wednes­~: tory.
r
day, he was admitted to the 
1
tSii

Medical Center for x-rays and "I'm very proud ofthis young 
David Rivers

diagnostic test which deter­man,'' said Phelps of Rivers mined the true nature of the Irish head coach Digger following the loss to North symptoms. Phelps was notified of the deci­Carolina. "No one gives more 
~~-­
-~ 

"It really wasn't an emer­sion to operate shortly before of himself in a quiet way than gency situation," Heisler said. he left to attend the NCAA David Rivers. He's always im­"The procedure went smooth­Final Four Thursday morning, pressed me with what he is as -,~·~_,,­
---~-­
ly, and he's resting comfortab­Heisler said. a person, more so off the court. 

The /File Photo
ly.'' The 22-year-old Rivers was To come back this year and 
Long jumper Joel Autry and the rest of the Irish track squad
Rivers will be in the hospital originally injured last Aug. 22 play was something that not 
open their outdoor season at home tomorrow afternoon. Molly
for five days following the hour­when a van driven by former many people thought could 
Mahoney previews the Notre Dame Invitational beginning on
long procedure. teammate Ken Barlow went off happen." 
page 18. 

Balanced scoring sought as .Irish lacrosse faces Colgate 
By STEVE MEGARGEE ponent Ohio Wesleyan in the grab an early lead tomorrow McLachlan. In Notre Dame's Radford, 12-3, then fell to Wash­
Sports Writer second game. by getting balanced scoring of first three games, McLachlan ington and Lee, 13-10, and Vil­''Colgate's an explosive team their own--a plan that worked has garnered eight goals and lanova, 7-6.Sporting a 1-2 record after a that can also shut off their op­well in Notre Dame's first three nine assists. 
"Colgate's similar, butseason-opening trip to the East 
ponent with a good zone matches. "McLachlan has seventeen maybe a little more aggres­Coast during Spring Break, the defense once they get ahead," ''All of our goals were assist­points in three games, and it's sive," said O'Leary. "We have Notre Dame lacrosse team will said Irish head coach Rich ed, so we've done a good job of mainly because he's been the to work hard at coming up with 
try to get to the .500 mark with O'Leary. "They have balanced finding the open man," said open man or has found the open the ground balls and keeping

a win over Colgate tomorrow scoring from their attack and O'Leary. "That's what we need man," said O'Leary. 
control of the ball." 

at Geneva, N.Y. midfield.'' to do because we're not going 0 'Leary is expecting the The Irish are hoping to haveThe Red Raiders have used to have the one star player." 
competition from the Red John Burtis, who was injuredThe Notre Dame-Colgate this strategy to win their first Even though the top scorers Raiders, who return seventeen for the first three contests,matchup at 11 a.m. will be the two matches of the year, a 14-3 from last year, Tom Grote and of nineteen lettermen from last back in action tomorrow. Thefirst game of a doubleheader 
triumph over Radford and a 14-Joe Franklin have graduated, year, to be similar to that of 
junior midfielder is currentlyhosted by Hobart College. 7 victory against Ithaca Col­the Irish may have found a star Notre Dame's three opponents listed as questionable for theHobart will face future Irish op-lege. The Irish are hoping to player on offense in senior John last week. The Irish dumped Colgate match. 
3-point shot 

Basketballs fly 
key to road as Bookstore arrives, 
to Final Four 

Spring is definitely here. No, not because the baseball season is around the corner, a fact that causes sports NEW ORLEANS -Some bas­
Associated Press 

writers to swoon in ecstatic rapture. Spring is here because ketball coaches agree that 
of something that happened right here at Notre Dame late Nevada-Las Vegas and Provi­
Tuesday night. dence might not be in the NCAA 
I was walking toward parking lot D6 around midnight Final Four if not for the 3-point 
with a friend, and we passed by the Lyons basketball goal. 
courts. It was raining fairly well and the night was chilly. "It helped some teams, 
But the time and weather weren't about to to disrupt the that's for sure--UNLV and 
two games taking place on the Lyons courts. Providence," said Pittsburgh coach Paul Evans Thursday. 
"The 3-point goal really ben-

Dennis 
efitted Providence because 

Corrigan
they haven't a lot of inside players,'' said Michigan Coach 

Sports Editor 
Bill Frieder. Whether the championship game will be a shootout be­

"They must be crazy," my friend said. 
tween UNLV and Providence 

"No," I replied, "just getting ready for Bookstore." 
remains to be seen. 

It's that time again. The time when Notre Dame is trans-
In Saturday's first game of formed into one big court. The true hallmark of spring

the Superdome double-header, 

under the Dome, the Bookstore Basketball Tournament,
No. 10 Syracuse, 30-6, takes on 

is celebrating its sweet 16th this year with the biggest field 
Providence, 25-8, followed by in its history -662 teams. 

No. 1 UNLV, 37-1, against No. 

The large field has caused a tradition to to be broken.
3 Indiana, 28-4. 

When the tourney kicks off Tuesday afternoon with the Indiana, led by Steve AI-annual Hall-of-Fame game, 30 other games will be played 
ford's 52 percent accuracy with 

as well. That's the first time any other game has been 
98 3-pointers, has the best 3­

played the same day as the Hall-of-Fame game. Tourna­
point shooting marksmanship 

ment director Steve Wenc has had to schedule two extra 
(121 for 241, 50 percent) among 

days of preliminary round games to handle the large num­
the Final Four teams. 

ber of squads.
Syracuse basically relies on 

The Hall-of-Fame game (eatures the return of a crowd one 3-point player, Greg favorite from a few years ago. The Esophagus Constrictors 
member of the Final Four this season. A complete preview of see BOMB, page 18 this weekend's action can be found on pages 14 and 15. 
see SPRING, page 17 


' (
·. .J. 






