Beach Boys-page 12 

VOL. XXI, NO. 89 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Soviet defector Arkady Shevchenko told a packed Washington Hall crowd Tuesday night that he would not be surprised if Soviet leader 
The Observer 1 Paul Oeschger Mikhail Gorbachev were ousted from power. Story at right. 

Soviet leader could be ousted: defector 
By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
The highest ranking Soviet official ever to defect to the West said he would not be surprised if Soviet leader Mik­hail Gorbechev would be removed as head of the Soviet Union. 
Speaking to a capacity crowd at Washington Hall, Arkady Shevchenko indicated he "would not say that ( Gorbechev) was as solidly strong as one can believe. 
"I think Gorbechev's rela­tions with the Soviet army are rather shaky," Shevchenko continued. "It's a tradition of the Soviet leaders not to show to the world that there are dis­agreements." 
He indicated that the Soviet military has a 15-to 20-year cycle in which there is a major modernintion program. 
"In one or two years a crucial decision will have to be taken whether there will be a new cycle of Soviet development of weapon systems and that will be a moment when military may request quite a lot of things," Shevchenko said. 
"If he would like to improve the civilian sector of the Soviet economy, he might have a problem with the Soviet mili­tary." 
Shevchenko said Gorbechev was the first Soviet leader born after 1917, making him a full product of the Soviet system. As such, "We should not harbor any illusions that Gorbechev is really a closet liberal, that Gor­bechev is intent in really changing the Soviet Union," Shevchenko said. 
He continued, "Gorbechev is a true communist. We should not forget about this. He is a man who believes in the future of the Soviet system." 
According to Shevchenko, 
see SOVIET, page 6 

HPC discusses dorm changes and Holy Cross program 
By REGIS COCCIA up with the move in October. decision. Salmon said Tyson sented slides of the village in and on Saturday and Sunday Assistant News Editor Tyson said it was a personal told him the new women's which they worked and shared these people just don't eat thing with him to send personal dorms are being constructed some of their experiences with anything, there's just no money
Reasons for the conversion of letters to everyone all at once," next to the Pasquerillas be­the Council. to eat. Howard Hall and life as a Holy said Salmon. cause "it's cheaper for ar­"We graduated from Notre "Just to give you a little idea 
Cross associate in Chile were "He said he didn't even think chitectural costs," adding, Dame in 1984, proud residents of what it's like, as we said, among the topics discussed at about girls going over to "Father Hesburgh chooses of Sorin and Walsh Halls," there's 65 percent unemploy­Tuesday night's Hall Presi­Howard 20 minutes after where the buildings go; that's Nanni said. "After we ment, (where we lived) the dents' Council meeting, which reading the letter (to measure why Howard, Holy Cross and graduated, we went to Chile as streets are not paved, if there featured speakers Vice Presi­rooms)," Salmon said. "When Carroll were chosen." members of the Holy Cross As­is running water in the house,dent for Student Affairs Father asked why (Carroll, Holy Cross Nanni and Krasevac were in­sociates program. it's always cold," Krasevac 
David Tyson and Holy Cross and Howard) were chosen, troduced by HPC Co-Chairman "Poverty is the hardest said. "When it's 35 degrees out­
Associates Lou Nanni and Kim Tyson said <University Presi­Joanie Cahill. "The reason we thing," Krasevac said. side, it's 35 degrees inside be­Krasevac. dent) Father Hesburgh wanted wanted them to come here is "Families who would other­cause there is no central 
"Tyson gave his rationale for intra-campus dorms for the because you are leaders and wise not eat at all get together heating, that's just unheard of. the issues raised (by the girls," said Salmon. you can tell others what the to cook together to cut down on People go hungry, a lot of kids, Howard incident)," said Car­According to Salmon, Tyson Holy Cross Associates pro­cost in what are called common a lot of people are mal­roll Hall President Tim Sal­said the board considered all gram is all about." pots. They normally will func­mon. "He said the board came issues when the board made the Nanni and Krasevac pre-tion from Monday to Friday see HPC, page 5 
Birth leave recommendation approved by Faculty Senate 
By JOHN FLORY ulty members are currently Staff Reporter given only four weeks leave, except for medical reasons, 
The Faculty Senate on and male faculty members Feb. 3 passed a parental are not provided for under leave recommendation call­current policy. ing for a semester-long Flint said he sees three leave, with at least half pay, problems with the current for male and female faculty policy. It discourages fac­members previous to an ulty members from having adoption or birth. children, does not draw 
The recommendation will female professors to the Uni­now be passed along to the versity, and does not agree Academic Council and if ap­with Notre Dame's Christian proved, to Provost Timothy stance on family values, he O'Meara for final approval, said. according to Vice President The proposed new policy for Business Affairs James is actually a package of four Mason. options according to Flint. 
According to faculty sen­The first two provide for 
ate member and Associate maternity leave. Under the 
Professor of philosophy Tom 
Flint, expectant female fac-see BIRTH, page 4 
... 

Kidnappers try to deal with Israel 
Associated Press negotiations, but added that delivered to the Beirut office 
no such request has been of a Western news agency. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Mos­made. It holds American hostages lem kidnappers were re­Israeli officials say Wash­Joseph James Cicippio, 56, of ported trying to strike a deal ington has not asked Israel to Valley Forge, Pa., acting with Israel on Tuesday that meet demands by the kidnap comptroller at the American would free 400 Arab prisoners group, the Islamic Jihad for University of Beirut, and Ed­in exchange for three the Liberation of Palestine, to ward Austin Tracy, 56, a Americans and an Indian held release 400 prisoners in ex­writer who formerly lived in in Beirut and a captured Is­change for the lives of the four Burlington, Vt., and Jean­raeli airman. educators it holds. Louis Normandin, 35, a The Christian-run Voice of White House spokesman French television engineer. Lebanon and the Moslem-run Marlin Fitzwater told One hostage did gain his Voice of the Nation radio sta­reporters in Washington, freedom in Beirut on Tues­tions quoted ''reports from "Our terrorism policy day. Police said Jack Seikaly, Washington and other capi­remains the same, ·and I 50, a wealthy Lebanese­
tals" as saying the captors reiterate once again that we American kidnapped four might be working through the will not ransom hostages nor days ago, was freed un­Red Cross for an exchange. will we encourage other harmed after his family paid 
In Geneva, the Interna­countries to do so." a "sizable ransom." tional Committee of the Red A group called the Revolu­A smiling Seikaly, uncle of Cross denied involvement in tionary Justice Organization Syracuse University basket­any negotiations. renewed a threat Tuesday to ball star Rony Seikaly, told 
Prime Minister Yitzhak harm hostages if the United reporters at his home in Mos­Shamir of Israel said his gov­States takes military action. lem west Beirut: "I'm fine." ernment would be willing to "The retaliation will be very consider a direct request for cruel," it said in a statement see HOST AGES, page 3 
..-------------­
-

The Observer Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 2 


In Brief 
South Africa has reached a new high in human rights violations, including torture and assaults by police, according to a U.N. report released Tuesday. The report listed about 10,000 arrests without charge or trial, includ­ing arrests of children under the age of 15, and "numerous allegations of acts of torture" by security forces. It said children were particularly affected by the situation, des­cribed as the "most serious ever in the history" of South Mrica. -Associated Press 
Groups of young girls welcomed home the pop group A-Ha to OSLO, Norway after the group completed a successful 9-month world tour with a benefit concert Tuesday night after being received in audience by King Olav V. Tuesday night they closed the tour with a benefit concert attended by government members, political party leaders and Andreas Aarflot, the bishop of Oslo and head of Norway's Lutheran Church. Proceeds of the pop gala were to be split between Amnesty International and two Norwegian societies. -Associated Press 

Police investigating the burglary of Cardinal John O'Connor's residence said two priests each reported $150 missing from their rooms. Two men entered a third-floor window of the residence behind St. Patrick's Cathedral on Sunday and ransacked the cardinal's bedroom and the sleeping quarters of two other priests, police said. One burglar walked out the front door and the other jumped from a third-story window, police also said. -Associated Press 
College students are buying telepho~e answering machines more than any other age group, sa1d a study by Code-A-Phone Corporation. The survey said that 45% of all answering machine buyers were under age 35, with the bulk of the sales in the 18 to 24-year-old age group. -The 
Observer 
University of Southern California students, faculty and staff are being asked to take a collective bite out of crime. Officials have organized the second annual Crime Prevention Fair with a crime prevention unit of­fering free programs including building security inspec­tion, identification engraving, neighborhood watch and rape prevention. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
Bike-Aid '87, across-countrybicycletripthissummer from June 17 to Aug. 19 with five routes from the west coast to New York, is being sponsored by the Overseas Development Network. Proceeds from Bike-Aid will go to aid hunger and poverty in the Third World and in America. For more information please write: Bike-Aid '87, Dept. CN2 Box 2306, Stanford, CA 94305 or call (415) 725-2869. 
-The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64, Notre Dame's campus radio station, is undergoing a major renovation of its carrier current transmission system. Due to the size of the campus and the complexity of the work, WVFI will be off the air until March 1, 1987 while the rebuilding takes place. In addition, 



Georgetown proves not all Catholic universities alike 
There's Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ... and then there's Georgetown University. Some might say a Catholic university is a Catholic university is a Catholic university. 
Call the SMCs, wake the Domers, rattle the Hoyas because this preconception, my friends, is not so. 
If you have ever studied dipolarity in Intro to Chemistry 101, then the great disparity be­tween the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's campuses and the university overlook:ing the Potomac serves as a fitting illustration of this theory. 
Living on the Georgetown campus last sum­mer for three months awakened me to the various definitions a "Catholic university" can connote. Mter living in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community for three years, I was taken aback with the liberality that seemed to hang like a fog above the Hoyas' turf. 
For example, the Georgetown student gov­ernment, one evening, sponsored a keg party on the steps of the administration building. The thought of sipping a beer under the radiance of the Golden Dome made me laugh as I tossed it out as merely a momentary brain cramp. 
A stronger eye-opener came upon experienc­ing the Georgetown University Pub. There, the differing policies administered by Georgetown and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's became more apparent. With the legal drinking age set at 19 in the District of Columbia, most second semester freshmen theoretically could be served alcohol in this establishment (which is located in the basement of their administration building). 
The protected Notre Dame-Saint Mary's en­vironment, which adamently attempts to foster, Catholic ideals through administering rigid standards like the alcohol policy runs a collision course with the alcohol freedom permitted by Georgetown, also a "Catholic" institution. 
While the absence of an alcohol policy at Georgetown opens the widest disparity between the two "Catholic" atmospheres, other differ­ences also exist. While the lack of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame is always bone for contention, the presence of them at Georgetown is an ob­vious distinction. And not too surprisingly, Georgetown continues to maintain its Catholic label without a system of parietals. The selling of "Playboy" magazine :in their campus bookstore, however, serves as the ultimate icing on the cake. 
Examining the extremes taken on the spec­trum of Catholic institutions begs an answer to the question: Just what basic qualities make a university Catholic? It certainly is not the pres­ence or the lack of parietals, or of an alcohol policy, or of co-ed dorms. 

Then, just why do they differ so? 
Some might attribute Georgetown's gover­nance by the Jesuits as cause for its liberal atmosphere. Or some might say Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's location in the conservative midwest is reason enough for its more regi­mented "Catholic" environment. 
But these theories only touch the surface. Three weeks ago, Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the Notre Dame theology depart­ment said, "Our department is as Catholic as Catholic can be," and Georgetown's adminis­tration undoubtedly believes nothing less of its institution and its teaching. 
Then is the mere adjective "Catholic" enough to merit the similar distinctions that Geor­getown, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's so proudly share? While all three institutions begin with a framework consisting of a com­munity of scholars who work to serve intellec­tual, spiritual and cultural development, a mys­terious cloud continues to hang between the two campus environments. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seem to share a unique mystique distinctly not present at Georgetown. Whether you like it or not, there's a sort of special Notre Dame-Saint Mary's cam­araderie. It's an aura definitely not present on the loosely knit, Yuppie Catholic Georgetown campus. 
The Hoyas and the Irish will never be inter­changeable and a Catholic university is not a Catholic university is not a Catholic university. 
WVFI is moving its studios and offices from O'Shaughnessy Tower to 2nd floor of LaFortune. WVFI will be broadcasting from the new studios when the entire system is rebuilt. -The Observer 
The Td-Military Ball will be held Friday, Feb. 13 in the South Dining Hall. -The Observer 
The third annual Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Charity Ball will hold an organizational meeting tonight from 8­
9: 15 in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Danny Harrison and Jim Gollon will be speaking to all committee chair­persons and new members. -The Observer 
VVeather 
You've gotta fight, for your right to ~-· ---·o'', I South Bend weather. It will be mostly~',
, . -: sunny today with highs near 40. Mostly I~ . 
1 
clear tonight with lows in the tipper 20s. ..-::. Sunny Thursday with highs in the low 40s. · Jl 
-Associated Press 


___ Ihe ObserYer-
Design Editor .................. Kathy Huston Accent Copy Editor ....... Mike Naughton Design Assistant .. .. .. .. .. ... Andy Fenoglio Accent Layout............. Melinda Murphy Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman Typist .............................. Esther Ivory ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor ................. Susan Coene News Editor................. Chris Bednarski SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Copy Editor ...................... Karen Webb Ad Design .............. Mary Carol Creadon Sports Copy Editor ..... ....... Marty Burns Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Bob White Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout ......... Kathleen Moran Photographer ................. Jim Carol 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed-for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Denise Wets 319 Breen Phi11tps •1317 or •1536
• 


IMPORTANT JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND NOTICE 
As the Junior Parents' Weekend draws closer, the JPW Executive 
Committee has begun to finalize most of the plans for the 
weekend. Therefore, it is Important to bring to the attention of 
those attending JPW events the following items: 
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY: No more tickets will be sold to the Dinner or Brunch. Only those people who have paid for their tickets are guaranteed seats at these events. 
EFFECTIVE AS OF FRIDAY FEBRUARY 13: All balances mu~t be paid on tickets. Those people who have not paid their balance as of this day will forfeit their tickets and be reimburst any money already paid. 
Refunds after this day will only be for SOX of the orlgional paid 
cost. No refunds will be taken after Friday, February 20. 
IN ADDITION: 

A make-up day for table reservations is scheduled for Thursday, February 12. 
If table reservations have not been made by this date, people 
will L'e assigned to tab 1 es by the JPW Commit tee. 
REGISl ~AT ION for Junior Parents' Weekend will begin on Tuesday, Febru:ny 17. Time and place will be posted elsewhere. 
rhe abo~e notice has been a result of many outstanding balances and a need to limit the number or people attending the dinner and brunch due to space restrictions. This notice applies to everyone attending the JPW events, regardless of previous arrangements. 
If you have problems or questions regarding the Junior Parents· Weekend or the above notice, please visit the JPW office on the second floor of Lafortune, leave a message in the JPW mailbox in the Student Activities Office on the third floor of Lafortune or 
contact: ' 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 3 
Network anticipates May meeting of ND trustees 

By JOE MARKEY Staff Reporter 
The Anti-Apartheid Network has gained a second wind as anticipation mounts concern­ing the May meeting of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, ac­cording to the group's chair­person, Margarita Rose. 
"A lot of people were dis­couraged with the Board's decision to postpone their as­sessment of divestment, but now realize the need to make their voices heard again," Rose said. 
In November, the Board decided to completely reassess the University's investment policy, and vote on it during its May meeting. According to Rose, the group is hopeful for a positive outcome at the May meeting. 
A growing number of stu­dents seem to be realizing the importance of the issue, Rose said. Almost 100 signed their names to the group at the recent Social Concerns Fes­, tival at the Center for Social 
The Observer 1 Paul Oeschger Concerns, she added. 
Junior Ron Overhiser checks the mail in Sorin letter in one's mailbox can really brighten the 
Hall. As mid-winter blues begin to creep in, a day. 

Hostages 
continued/rom page I 
He refused to discuss his kidnapping or be photographed. 
Lebanon's Italian commu­nity appealed in Beirut news­paper ads Tuesday for-infor­mation on the fate of Italian businessman Alberto Molinari, kidnapped in west Beirut Sept. 11, 1985. 
No motive is known for Molinari's abduction. He is among 26 foreigners, includ-


Money for care center to be 
ing eight Americans, who are 

raised by Feb. phone-a-thon 
missing after being kid­napped in Lebanon. 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite sought to obtain A phone-a-thon will take their release, but he vanished place from Feb. 16-20 and 23-27 last Jan. 20 and now Waite, to raise money for the Women's too, is missing. Care Center according to Dan 

NOTICE TO ALL POTENTIAL MAY1987GRADUATES 
The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement program and the NAME as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 28, 1987. Questions about your Degree/Major should be directed to your Dean. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 28 will require a $15.00 charge. 
You will receive a commencement ticket request form by February 28, 1987 together with information about announcements, cap/gown rental, etc. 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. 
Dean of Administration 
and University Registrar 
According to Rose, a workshop was held on Feb. 3 with the purpose of "educating people about apartheid in South Africa." 
"Many people are still not sure about the facts; the workshop gave them the oppor­tunity to have their questions answered," she said. 
Rose said she thinks many people are afraid to get in­volved because they don't know the facts about divestment. "It is a complicated issue," she said. 
Upcoming events include continued Friday afternoon vigils on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building, and the National Week of · Anti­Apartheid Action. 

During the week of March 23­April 4, groups across the na­tion will join in an effort to ex­press concern over the South African apartheid policy, Rose explained. "A lecture by Fa­ther Mulussi, an Anglican priest from South Africa, will highlight the week" on the campus, said Rose. "Films will be shown also." 
Groody, chairman of the pro­gram. 
Groody said the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right-to­Life group will sponsor the event, which donates all of the money raised to the Women's Care Center, for the third straight year. "In years past we've raised anywhere from $20,000 to $30,000," said Groody. 
The Women's Care Center is a pro-life pregnancy help cen­ter dedicated to assisting wo­men with problem pregnancies by offering free pregnancy testing, crisis counseling, and referrals to other social service organizations, according to literature from the center, Groody said. 
The Center, established in 1983 as an outgrowth of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right-to-Life organization, serves about 125 women each month, according to Groody. "So many people need the Care Cert~r that they are trying to exr-tud to one or even two new car · ct_ ·~:r:;," he added. 
"Ta__ ...............-a-thon is an at­tempt to provide an alternative for abortion and at the same time raise money for the wo­men who need the services of the care center," Groody said. 
"I think I'd like to reach 
$30,000, if we can get over 
$30,000 it would be good," 
Groody said. 
Approximately 7,000 poten­tial donors were sent letters containing information about the Women's Care Center and a note from Lou Holtz, the honorary chairperson. 

Also important to the fund­raising effort are student dona­tions. "In years past, just in collection alone we were able to raise $3,000," said Groody. Father Hesburgh, University president, has agreed to con­tribute $1,000 from an adminis­tration fund for every $3,000 earned through student dona­tions, Groody said. 

~-~----·­
The Observer 
Birth 
continuedfrom page 1 
first of these, the expectant fac­ulty member would be given no workload for the semester and receive one-half pay. The second would involve a halved workload and full pay, he said. 
The other two, he said, in­volve parental leave, regard­less of sex. One of these entails no workload and half-pay, the other half a normal workload and seventy-five percent pay. 
Research which led to the proposal was headed up by Co­chairman of the Benefits Com­mittee Terese Ghilarducci. According to Ghilarducci, the issue "came up last year" when a male faculty member chose to adopt a child through Catholic Social Services. Due to the constraints of the current policy, his wife was forced to quit her job to care for the newly adopted child, she said. 
According to Ghilarducci, the University is concerned but does not yet have provisions for such cases. Faculty Senate 
chairman Jean Pee confirmed the need for such provisions, saying several faculty mem­bers have adopted in the past. 
Pee said she is "gratified . with the response of the Sen­ate," and Flint also expressed a hopeful attitude about the success of the recommendation so far. 
Flint said "all are fairly hopefull" that the proposal will be passed by the Academic Council sometime this semes­ter, and take effect next aca­demic year, if fully approved. 
If approved, said Flint, the policy would yield many benefits to professors. They would be given more appropri­
---~--~ . 

-~-~---------------------------~----~---~ --~---.... 

ate workloads and arrange­ments could be made for qualified professors. 
Ghilarducci sees an advan­tage in that the new policy would attract female faculty members, adding that cur­rently, about 9.6 percent of Notre Dame's faculty are wo­men. 
All involved said they agree the recomendation would rein­force Notre Dame's position as a leading Catholic university. "Notre Dame is family," said Pee, adding that parentalleave 

Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 4 

Reagan won't order aides to testify 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan has refused to order former aides John Poindexter and Oliver North to appear before the board Reagan named to review the National Security Council's role in the Iran-Contra affair, the White House said Tuesday night. 
Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said presidential counsel Peter Wallison told former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas, that com­manding appearances by Poin­dexter and North before the panel would compel the pair "to testify against them­selves." 
Tower had written Reagan on Feb. 4, asking the president to use his authority as commander-in-chief to order Poindexter, a vice admiral, and North, a Marine lieutenant colonel, to testify to the three­member panel. Both Poindex­ter and North have returned to active military duty. 
Fitzwater disclosed the refusal not long after the White House made available to mem­bers of the Tower commission a series of typewritten transcripts of notes that Reagan kept on meetings in­volving the secret sales of U.S. arms to Iran. 
In his letter to Tower, dated Feb. 6, Wallison said that both North and Poindexter "have a constitutional protection against self-incrimination un­der Article 31 of the Uniform 
is family-affirming, acknow­ledging the father's role in it. "(Notre Dame) should take care of our own," concluded Pee. 
If instituted, the policy would be a precedent among Catholic universities, said Ghilarducci. 
"We'll be a minority," she said. 
Pee finds the possible "van­guard" position of Notre Dame appealing, and Flint affirmed that the University should lead in this area, "not follow." 
Code of Military Justice," Fitzwater said in a statement. 
Poindexter resigned and North was fired last Nov. 25-­the same day that Attorney General Edwin Meese revealed on national television that mil­lions of dollars in profits from the sales of U.S. weapons to Iran had been diverted to the Nicaraguan rebels known as Contras. 
Subsequently, both North and Poindexter returned to ac­tive duty roles in the military, and both refused to testify before congressional commit­tees, invoking their Fifth Amendment rights against self -incrimination. 
Fitzwater said that in reject­ing Tower's request to produce Poindexter and North, "the White House counsel relied upon a written opinion from the general counsel of the Depart­ment of Defense, who con­firmed earlier oral advice on this matter when similar issues were raised in December." 
In his reply to Tower, Wal­lison noted that Reagan recently had "made clear his desire that both Poindexter and North cooperate fully with all ongoing inquiries, consistent with their rights." 
The presidential counsel also reminded Tower that Reagan had proposed last month that the Senate Intelligence Com­mittee grant limited use immu­nity to Poindexter and North "so the facts would be known without precluding pro1:;ecution based on other evidence." 
Meanwhile, Reagan met with Wallfson and with David Ab­shire, his special counsel on the Iran-Contra matter, in prepa­ration for a question-and­answer session the president is scheduled to have Wednesday with members of the panel. 


~ 
SENOR KELLY'S 
119 NORTH MICHIGAN S.B.'s 1 IRISH-MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
Wednesdays -MUG of BEER 75 cents 
free munchies! 
IO% off all dinners with NlYSMC 
234-5389 

J.D. 
entineflowers 





"thahug.
Teleflora's Valentine Bear Bouquet for February 14! Acuddly plush bear with top hat and tails hugs ared heart filled with flowers. He's the classy way to say "I love you"...all year long. 
or send helium balloons. 
G1iAd:L ffftJt/Jf}~J G (/$J 
409 DIXIE WAY NORH; SOUTH Bt=ND 1~J -lfi6.37 
272-6363 
Lush Plants and Delightful Arrangements for your Valentine! 
Carnations  $895 dozen  
Long Stem Roses  S3 750 dozen  
Sweetheart Roses  S2400 dozen  
'  

Always Florist Quality Dell11ery A 11allable 

Village Greenhouse 
North Village Mall-272-5335 
Flower Market 
Buyer's Marketplace-272-0902 
---~-----­
The Observer Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 5 

Khomeini vows to continue war 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus-Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini declared Tuesday that Iran's long con­flict with Iraq is a holy crusade and his fundamentalist regime will make "war until victory " 
The 86-year-old Shiite Mos­lem patriarch delivered his first public speech in nearly three months on the eve of the 
eighth  anniversary  of  Shah  
Mohammad  Reza  Pahlavi's  
fall from power.  

There have been rumors that Khomeini is in poor health, but his voice was strong and steady during the 17-minute address broadcast by Tehran radio. His remarks also were reported by the official Islamic Republic News Agency. 
Khomeini said Iran was bat­tling for a "divine cause" in the war, which began in September 1980 with an invasion by Iraq. 
"Families and children are now being killed and this is hard for us and brings pressure to bear," he said. The speech was delivered at a mosque near his home in the Jamaran sub­urb north of Tehran, the news agency and radio said. 
Iraq and Iran have pounded each other's cities with air raids, artillery and missiles recently. Thousands of civilians have been reported killed or wounded. 
"Almost every day Iran is hit, and many children, youngsters, old men and ordi­nary people see their homes fall in on them, but as soon as they clamber from the rubble they speak of the need for us to make war until victory," Khomeini said. 
Mass rallies are planned Wednesday to mark the an­niversary of the dissolution of Parliament on Feb. 11, 1979, less than two weeks after Khomeini's triumphal return from exile. The shah had left the country in January. 
Tuesday's speech was the first public address by Khomeini since Nov. 20, when he condemned Iranian officials 

Ticket Sales on sale for for $2.00 in the Black Studies Office
BCAF 

345 O'Shag
TALENT 

T,Th 2-4; M,W,F 8-12 
SHOW 

in advance only. 

THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A BIG CLASSIC HAMBURGER,I REGULAR SIZE ORDER OF FRENCH 1 
I 
: I I 

FRIES AND ~~~DJ~:=IZE (160Z) I 
FOR ONLY $2.59 I 
Valtd a1 ·.~ "";"'"'"' Wo"">'• ,,._ 
16!

Presen1 Coupon When Ordering. No! Valid -¥-I Wi1h Any 01her Offer Bacon, Cheese And 1 
~~ I 
OFFER EXPIRES FEBRUARY 28, 1987 l'i 
REDEEM AT ANY SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA OR NILES WENDY'S LOCATION 
who wanted contact with the United States, a reference to the Iran-Contra arms deal. 
Western news reports have said Khomeini suffered at least one stroke late last year and was staying out of daily affairs because of bad health. Specula­tion arose again Sunday be­cause President Ali Khamenei read a speech for Khomeini while the patriarch sat in silence. 
Before Khomeini spoke on Tuesday, President Khamenei said Iran does not want to widen the war and seeks to ex­pand "brotherly relations with its neighbors." 
"Iran is interested in assur­ing the security of the region in cooperation with all Persian Gulf countries," the official news agency quoted him as saying at an anniversary cere­mony in Tehran. 
He also issued this warning to countries that provide arms or other aid to Iraq: "We iden­tify our enemies and our friends, especially in these fateful days." 
Iran has made thinly veiled threats against Kuwait for let­ting Iraqi warplanes to use its airspace for attacks on Iran's vital oil installations. 

Programming Board hears of 'Big Apple Send-Off 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Pro­gramming Board met Tues­day night to discuss plans for the "Big Apple Send-Off." 
The "send-off" is a raffle event which sponsors through a random drawing a trip for a member of the Saint Mary's community and three friends. "The other (women) do not have to be from Saint Mary's, but all four of the travellers must be female," said Sarah Cook, vice president for stu­dent affairs. 
"This is open to the entire Saint Mary's community. This means that professors can purchase a raffle ticket as well as students," Cook said. 
Each ticket is sold for $10 each, and Saint Mary's stu­dents can purchase any amount of tickets. "Everything was paid for 



Harvard this summer. 
June 29-August 21, 1987 
Harvard Summer School, America's oldest academic summer s.ession, offers open-enrollment in nearly 250 day and evening 
liberal arts courses, a diverse curriculum including courses 
appropriate for fulfilling undergraduate and graduate degree 
requirements, and programs designed for personal or 
professional development. 

The international student body has access to Harvard's 
outstanding libraries, museums, athletic facilities, and cultural 
activities, to nearby Boston and the Cambridge community, and to Harvard's historic residences. 
~eatured is a college-level program for secondary school 
JUniors and seniors in addition to special programs in Health 
Professions (for minority students), Drama, Film Studies Dance 
Writing, Ukrainian Studies, and English as a Second Laniuage. ' 
To receive a catalog!~~! or UiformaJion about a specifiC program, return the coupon below or call our 24-hour liM at (617) 495-2494. For information call (617) 495-2921. Please 
_________________ _a!l~~_~ ""! _w_e~k_:_f~~ '!"_I~~'!: ___________________ _ 
[ 1YES, please send a 1987 Harvard Swruner School catalogue and/or specific information about the following program(s): 
[ 1 Secondary School Program [ 1 Dance Center [ 1Drama [ 1Film Studies [ 1English as a Second Language [ I Writing [ 1Health Professions 
N~e------------------------------------------
Stroot __________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip--------------------------------­
Harvard University Summer School 
DEPT. 636 20 GARDEN STREET, CAMBRIDGE, MA 02138 USA 
today. We need to sell 175 tickets in order to break even," Cook said. She added student government "might even make some money off of this." Sara Harrison, vice president of Augusta Hall, commented on student participation in the event. "People in Augusta are really excited about it." Eunice Tornetta, entertain­ment commissioner, added, "groups of three and four people are getting together to buy the raffles." 
Cook said publicity for the event has gone well. "Tomorrow flyers with in­formation will be placed in mailboxes, and we have apple-posters around Saga which advertise the raffle." 
Tickets for the raffle will be on sale Feb. 13 and 19 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Haggar College Center, and on Feb. 16-18 from 4to 7 p.m. in Lemans Hall. 
HPC 
continuedfrom page I 
nourished," said Krasevac. 
"I think one of the things I learned about most there was generosity," Krasevac said. "Every single peso, which is the money they have there, goes toward feeding their kids. One of the lessons I learned down there is that the people who have the least give the most because they know what it means not to have," she said. 
Nanni said he taught English to sixth and eighth grade children in the poor school. He spoke on the lack of adequate health services and shared an experience in which the mother of one of his students died of improper medical care. 
"There, the next day was Mertha, my student whom I had grown to love and care for, crying because she'd lost her 32-year-old mother, the little stability that she had in he1 life," Nanni said. "And I thought, 'dammit, this isn't right,' it hurt but it also struck me as not being right, it an­gered me . . . that humanity, where we have these two VCRs, three car families, couldn't meet the needs of Mertha's necessitites, her health neces­sities, her food necessities. 
"And it smacked of, more than anything else, the indif­ference, the apathy that those who have have towards those who have not," Nanni said. "It's not (the military dictator­ship of) Pinochet that's the worst," he said, "but it's the masses of the indifference that I think are the worst. 
"What can we do as a Notre Dame community? There's a lot we can do. I wouldn't put our expectations too high. Let's say there's a thousand who are completely indifferent, turn their head the other way, there's always one or two or three that give and give and give and those are the people that I think who have the strongest impact on society," Nanni said. "One person can have a bigger impact than a thousand indifferent.'' 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 6 
The Observer 

The Observer/Jim Carroll The Beach Boys touring bus got a rinsing off stadium. The group will celebrate their 25th Tuesday in the parking lot of the football anniversary next month. Story on page 12. 
Soviets free 140 political prisoners 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The government 
has freed about 140 imprisoned 

dissidents, is considering par­
doning about 140 more, and has 
begun reviewing the criminal 
code with the idea of softening 
some provisions, a Soviet 
spokesman said Tuesday. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman 
Gennady Gerasimov said the 
government would like to see 
"fewer people behind bars and 
behind barbed wire." 
He made no mention, however, of an amnesty for those sentenced under laws prohibiting "anti -Soviet agita­tion and propaganda." 
Soviet dissidents have esti­mated at least 1,500 political prisoners remain in Soviet labor camps, prisons or inter­nal exile. 
Besides the Kremlin's avowed desire to reduce the prison camp population, the government may also be trying to deflect Western criticism of the Soviet human rights record. The issue has ham­pered better trade and political relations with the West. 

The Soviets plan a weekend forum on peace and disarma­ment to be attended by politi­cal, business, cultural and re­ligious figures from Western countries. They also are trying to win agreement at the Vienna conference on European secur­ity for a human rights confer­ence in Moscow this spring. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the Reagan administra­tion hopes the Soviet govern­ment "will follow up these recent moves with the release of more political prisoners and prisoners of conscience who un­justly remain in confinement or exile withOut imposing any requirements that they recant their previous activities and limit future activities in sup­port of human rights. 
By late Tuesday night, the release of dissidents had not been reported to the Soviet public. The English-language service of the Tass news agency carried a report on Gerasimov's comments, but the report was not sent by the agency's Russian-language service. No mention of the release of dissidents was made. 
Correction 
The Student Senate article in Tuesday's Observer in­correctly reported how a gay rights proposal was settled. The proposal was defeated by an 8 to 7 margin, and Student Body President Mike Switek did not vote. 

on the evening televised news cerning anti-Soviet program Vremya. propaganda. 
Gerasimov told a news brief­"Many of those sentenced on ing Tuesday: that article have beerl address­ing appeals for clemency, and 
"The Soviet Union has been they are being examined and, re-examining a number of in many cases, being granted. cases, especially cases related To this date, about 140 people to sentences on (Article 70) of have been released." 


Soviet 
continuedfrom page 1 
the recent openness in the So­viet Union has been very lim­ited. "To begin with, there is no openness in foreign policy," he said. 
"This openness does not con­cern the army," Shevchenko continued, "The privileges of the elite are not being dis­cussed." 
"There cannot be any kind of real openness if all media, newspaper, television and everything will continue to belong to the government, con­trolled by the government and the censorship by the govern­ment will continue," he con­cluded. 
Shevchenko said the United States should keep its options open in dealing with the Soviet Union. At the same time, "We have to negotiate, have to deal, with the Soviet Union because we have to live on the same planet," he said. "I think we have to pursue arms negotia­tions now because it's a good opportunity." 
Shevchenko said last year's Reykjavik summit between Reagan and Gorbechev was counterproductive because the Soviet Union linked future progress on arms control to a ban on the Strategic Defense Initiative. Yet, "The Soviet program started in the late 1950s, and by the early 1960s they were going on full speed," he said . 
On the larger question of Soviet-American relations in general, Shevchenko said, "We have to win the minds of the Soviet Union. 
"With the revolution of tele­communications and every­thing, we· have perhaps some chances to break the Iron Cur­tain on telecommunications," said Shevchenko. 
"It is for us very important to understand the true nature of the new Gorbechev leader­ship, its dynamics ... as well as prospects for domestic reform," he said. 


This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to the beach,, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 

------GREYHOUND 
leavethe driving to us= 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 211/trl through 4/30/trl. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. © 19tr7 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 7 

McFarlane tried to kill self, concludes investigation 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -An investi­gation concluded that former presidential adviser Robert McFarlane attempted suicid-e, a police source said Tuesday, while authofities said officially only that there was no evidence of foul play in McFarlane's Valium overdose. "There's not going to be any ruling that it was an attempted suicide. We are satisfied that there was no crime and there's no further legal action to be taken," said Harry Geehreng, spokesman for the Montgomery County Police in suburban Maryland. But a source close to the in­vestigation, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said the 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban Setting just 10 minutes from campus. 
You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. r beautiful setting is reminiscent of the merald Isle. Maple provides professors 
mployees, graduate and administr retreat from campus. 
apartments being through Spring '87 

~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
~ 
her & Dryer in apartment 

~ 
Intercom entrances 
~ 
Earthtone Interiors 
~ 
ntry Kitchens 

•call for details about your discount 
277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 
police had determined McFar­lane's ingestion of 25 to 30 tablets of Valium, a tran­quilizer, was an attempt to take his own life. 
The source also confirmed that police learned that McFar­lane, President Reagan's former national security ad­viser, had written a note that his wife Jonda carried to the hospital. However, police did not know the contents of the note, the source said. 
Geehreng said he knew noth­ing of the note, and McFar­lane's attorney Peter Morgan declined comment on the mat­ter. 
The 49-year-old McFarlane, who associates said has recently been in severe pain with a back ailment, was rushed to the hospital Monday morning, shortly before he was to testify before the presiden­tial commission set up to inves­tigate the National Security Council's role in the Iran arms-sale crisis. 
He was listed in good condi­tion Tuesday at Bethesda Naval Hospital in suburban Maryland and was visited by his wife, said hospital spokes­man Lt. Russ Sanford. He said McFarlane was not receiving telephone calls. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Reagan had not tried to contact his former aide, but that the pres­ident and first lady Nancy Reagan planned to telephone Mrs. McFarlane. He said Reagan would likely call McFarlane "when it is appro­priate." 
Fitzwater said the White House "had no inside informa­tion or medical information" to comment on the reported suicide attempt. 
Mrs. McFarlane, mean­while, issued a terse statement saying, "Bob and the children and I appreciate enormously the great love and support that we are getting from friends and 
strangers alike." 

Teens charged after racial attack 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Three teen­agers were charged Tuesday with murder and nine others with lesser crimes in a racial attack in which a white mob chased and beat three black men, one of whom fled into traffic and was killed by acar. 
The suspects, ages 16 to 18, surrendered Tuesday mor­ning to police in the New York City borough of Queens, where the attack took place Dec. 20. 
The 12 defendants, accom­panied to state Supreme Court by parents and lawyers, were arraigned before Justice Alfred Lerner. All pleaded in­nocent. 
Two of the three youths charged with murder Tues­day had previously faced the same charge until a judge dropped it for lack of tes­timony by the survivors of the ::tttack. 
Those charged with murder again were Jon Lester, 17, of South Ozone Beach, and Scott Kern, 17, of Howard Beach. The other youth charged with murder was Robert Riley, who was described by special prosecutor Charles Hynes as the only defendant who cooperated in the investiga­tion. 
The judge agreed to Hynes' request that Riley be released on his own recognizance. Bail was denied for Kern. Lester, already imprisoned on a weapons charge, was remanded to Rikers Island prison. 
The third youth charged in the original investigation, Jason Ladone, 16, was charged with second-degree manslaughter. His bail was set at $50,000. 
The other charges against the teen-agers included at­tempted murder, assault, rioting, inciting to riot, con­spiracy and criminal facilita­tion. 
Although he noted that all the youths had roots in the community and many had no criminal records, Hynes asked the judge to take into account the seriousness of the charges and sought bails ran­ging from $100,000 to $25,000 for those charged only with the riot counts. 
In each case, defense lawyers argued their clients had voluntarily surrendered and would be available for any court appearances. 
But Lerner, calling the in­cident ''an American tragedy," set high bails in all cases. 

Klansmen killed son, says mother 
Associated Press 
MOBILE, Ala. -The mur­der of a black teen-ager in 1981 was carried out by Klansmen motivated by the white-supremacy doctrines of the United Klans of America, an attorney for the youth's mother said Tuesday during opening arguments in a $10 million civil rights suit. 
Attorney Morris Dees told the all-white jury he wanted it to grant a verdict that would "set the kind of example that will ring out around this state and country that good people will not tolerate this type con­duct." 
The case stems from the murder of 19-year-old Mi­chael Donald on March 21, 1981. His body was found hanging from a tree in Mobile. Two members of the local United Klans chapter, Klavern 900, were convicted in the case. 
Donald's mother, Beulah Mae Donald, is the main plaintiff, in addition to the NAACP, representing all Al­abama blacks. The suit claims Donald's constitu­tional rights and the rights of all blacks were violated by Klan intimidation tactics. 
The defendants include the United Klans of America, In­c., two Klansmen convicted in . he slaying and five others representing themselves at the trial. 
John Mays of Decatur, the attorney for the Klan, told the jury in opening statements that none of the Klan leaders thought the Donald murder was "humorous." 
"They thought it was an atrocity," Mays said. 
In opening testimony Tues­day, United Klans Imperial Wizard Robert Shelton, who is not personally a defendant, said he does not advocate vio­lence to achieve the goal of white supremacy. 
Dees questioned Shelton about a lynching cartoon that appeared in a Ku Klux Klan newspaper. Shelton, who was the newspaper's editor and publisher, said he did not ap­prove of the cartoon. 
The cartoon appeared in a 1979 issue of the Fiery Cross and showed a black with a noose around his neck. The caption read, "White people should give blacks what they deserve." 
Shelton said nothing in the KKK bylaws advocates vio­lence to achieve the political goal of white supremacy. 
"I'm not ashamed to be a white person," he added. 
Dees also introduced the United Klan charter, signed by Shelton, that created the local KKK group in 1979. Shel­ton has been the top officer of the United Klans since it was incorporated in 1961. 
~~~~~~~~>SS$i-LS$:~sssssss:--~~~~~~~~ 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD University of Notre Dame 
presents 
SPR/NfJ BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
Right on the beach * Right in the middle ol the $tl'ip 
~.ss:s:sssss:ss:o;
1 
Driving Package 






J-189

Without Transportation .._ 'f 
Quad Occupancy .. Full Package
1st deposit WHh Transportation.._ 'fJ.2 79 
Quad Occupancy ..
Deadline: 

March 13-22. 1987
Feb 20! 
To Sign Up Call239-7757 

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
• 
·seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera Resort Hotel.located right in the middle of the strip at 505 North Atlantic (A 1A). This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels mthe middle of the strip. The Riviera has a great cafe restaurant. one of the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a niQht­club Available are hotel rooms tor tour people and su1tes that sleep six (with kitchenette) Both have air condition­ing, color TV. and great new furn1shmgs. 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale, Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to use to save money at places you would go anyway. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of you. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities NOTRE 


Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 


------~----------------------~-------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 8 
The Observer 



Sister Pat Gantz continued the Catholic Faith chapel. Gantz gave a lecture titled "The Cath­Series Tuesday night in the Keenan-Stanford olic Experience and Prayer." 
Koop favors TV ads for condoms 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Surgeon General Everett Koop told a House panel on Tuesday that he favors advertising condoms on network television because the national health threat posed by AIDS "overwhelms other considerations." 
Koop said that such advertis­ing should promote disease prevention rather than sexual activity and that, properly pre­sented, it would provide a valu­able health service. 
The surgeon general, desig­nated the Reagan administra­tion's lead spokesman on AIDS, did not state his position on ad­vertising in his prepared tes­timony but expressed strong support for it in response to questions from members of the Health and Environment Sub­committee of the House En­ergy and Commerce Commit­tee. 
"The threat of AIDS is so great that it overwhelms other considerations, and advertis­ing, I think therefore, is neces­sary in reference to condoms and would have a positive public health value," Koop said. 

He acknowledged that con­doms do not provide 100 per­cent protection against catch­ing AIDS from an infected partner but added, "With all the failures and drawbacks it's the only thing we have in the way of a barrier." 
Generation gap exaggerated, says association of retired 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Reports of potential conflict between generations of Americans are greatly exaggerated, the American Association of Retired Persons said Tuesday. 
The association released results of a survey it said puts to rest recent reports of inter­generational conflict stem­ming from younger Americans' resentment of older people. 
Concern about such conflict has been expressed in Congress and by population analysts in view of the rapidly growing number of elderly in America and their potential need for costly medical and social pro­grams. 
But instead of such con­frontations, the study found "mutual respect and concern from generation to genera-
There is no vaccine or cure for AIDS, and no one is known to have recovered from it. 
Koop said abstinence is the only sure way to avoid con­tracting the disease sexually, but "that's not terribly realis­tic in our society." 
Rep. Jim Bates, D-Calif., asked Koop to comment on whether television networks have a particular responsibil­ity because so much program­ing contains sexual themes. 
"You could make a good case that if television networks do indeed peddle all the attractive parts of sex then they should be willing to also peddle some­thing that might prevent the transmission of sexually ac­quired disease," responded Koop. 
"But I think even without that relationship, the threat ... is so great to the people of this country that, of itself, the public health message and the preventative aspects of AIDS that would accompany condom advertising speak for them­selves." 
Representatives of the three major commercial networks-­NBC, CBS and ABC said at the hearing that they do not carry condom advertisements be­cause network officials believe they would be offensive to the viewers of many affiliate sta­tions. 
They noted that local stations are free to carry such ads on their own and that condoms are 
tion," said Madelyn Hochstein of the Daniel Yankelovich Group, which conducted the survey of 2,000 Americans by telephone and in small inter­view groups. The margin of er­ror was given as plus or minus three percentage points. 
"Most Americans are con­vinced that a blend of the en­ergy of youth and the experi­ence of older people is required to solve the country's prob­lems," Hochstein told a news conference. 
There is widespread rejec­tion of anti-elderly sentiment, she said, with two-thirds of Americans feeling that the Older generation can COntinUe to make a contribution to soci­
ety.Ad--d,.-••--------------­Only 13 percent of those polled felt that older workers -.---------------­
h ld r tire to make room for cuy Country
s ou e h You may lisl additional names on a separate sheet of paper younger replacements, s e ~ 
said. ' --.-----.-•• -~ •••••­
being advertised locally in 11 television markets. Moreover, they said the networks are keeping an open mind on whe­ther to accept such ads for na·· tional distribution. 





to a Friend 
in the United States, you can be their "passport" if they lack English skills. How? Just give us their names and addresses. We'll give them complete information about our English-language training programs and-in your name-provide a $50 tuition discount certificate. ELS counselors in 52 countries help qualified students enroll in American universities, obtain visas, arrange housing, and help with travel. 
ELS is America's leading intensive English program, with 20 schools throughout the U.S. We've served more than 230,000 students from around the world; over 300 American colleges and universities accept ELS's proficiency recommendation as an alternative to the TOEFL. 

Teaching English to the World for Over 25 Years 
EI.S Language Centers 
5761 Buckingham Parkway, Culver City, CA 90230 
Please send EL'i Intensive English Program information to the person below, along with a S50 Tuition Discount Certificate presented in my name. (please print) 
Name of prospective student 

Some women get abortions if not happy with child's sex 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Some pregnant women are using genetic tests to find out the sex of their fetuses and are getting abor­tions if it is not the gender they want, a practice made easier by a new kind of test, experts say. 
The practice is rare and test­ing professionals said they dis­courage it. as unethical or a poor use for tests intended to uncover serious genetic defects. 
While many women seeking such tests come from cultures that put a premium on having boys, others want a girl, testing experts said in recent inter­views. 
In one case, a 36-year-old mother of two boys got an abor­tion when she found out her fetus was male, said Marie Barr, coordinator of the-prena­tal diagnosis clinic at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia. 
Send my FREE U.S. Road Atlas• to: (please print) 
Namt• 
Address 

City stall' Zip ·supply limih'<i f(J I)Uf\ IH"r llillnt'/ acldrt•ss ahc•vc.•. ()ff{'f c•xpires June :in, I!-)R7. 
6450 

••-••••••••••••••••••--' 
If unintentionally pregnant, a woman in her 30s or 40s with three boys may wish to con­tinue the pregnancy only if she knows the baby will be a girl, said Laird Jackson, director of medical genetics at the univer­sity. 
The tests are generally per­formed if a woman has a family history of genetic disease or is 35 or older, because maternal age increases the risk of ge­netic defects. 
The standard test, called am­niocentesis, is performed when the fetus is about 16 weeks old. A newer test not in wide use, called chorionic villus sam­pling or CVS, can be performed as early as nine weeks, allow­ing for earlier abortions. 
Of 2,500 women who have gone through CVS procedures at Thomas Jefferson University in about three years, perhaps 10 have gotten abortions be­cause of the sex of the fetus, said Jackson. 



VieWE_O_i_n_t_______
w_edne-sday_. 11,-1987--pa-ge9
Feb-ruar-y 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
lA/HATA HIGH/ I'Ve 
8.V., THIS I$ SlJCH AN 

I MeAN, THCR£ ARE 50 
NGVGR Ff3tT5IXII... 
MANY FILM ACTRl3'3!3£S 
51/CH UATION! 8.fJ., SURE 
JDIN 7H&. 5TATI3 TA51< 

WITH MUCH MORe 13X.PGRJ­
I THINK. IM ABOUT YOU ARE, 
FORCE ON 5UF·ESTE£M.' 

GNC& IN P!3RSONAL. GRO«<TH! 
70 HAV&. ANOUT-or-8(){)P91E. 
800Y EXP&RI&NCE.' \
I 
I 

Heightened awareness of justice is petitioned 
Aquino receives praise for maintaining peace 
Although upheaval and violence still rock the Philippines, some good things are happening there. President Corazon Aquino has proven herself .a woman of peace, and in the face of an edgy group of leftist insurgents and a dissatisfied right, she has generally maintained a position consistent with her revolutionary, democratic ideals. 
Ken Kollman 
on politics 

On the whole, Aquino deserves pass­ing remarks for her job in running a revolutionary government, and in that business, passing marks are rare indeed. The new constitution, from all indications approved by nearly 80 per­cent of the population in a plebescite, stands as a remarkable sign of as­surance in this lady who consistently stuns her extremist enemies. 
One can hardly blame those who criticize her. From the left, she stops far short of a bloody communist revo­lution, instead choosing to negotiate, shake hands, and greet rebel leaders in her palace. The Communist guerillas undoubtably seek a share of power, if not a complete leadership role. But Aquino, of course, is not about to hand over even a share of power, and rightly so. So what does she do? She opens negotiations, arranges for a cease fire, and holds total control on the military's urge to pursue the guerillas in combat. This is hardly what good revolutions are made of. 
The right criticizes Aquino for many of the same reasons. Dealing with com­munists on any level other than outright violence is not only unforgiving, it may be downright treason. Calls of treason also come from the right when she holds the military accountable for the inap­propriate way the police handled the protestors two weeks ago. 
Yet that bloody confrontation which resulted in the deaths of 18 demonstrators brought severe criticism from both the left and right because, for the left, it looked too much like a Ferdinand Marcos move, and for the right, her immediate calls for in­quiry lacked some of the law-and-order righteousness of the old Marcos regime. The zealots whom Aquino can't seem to please are the very people whom most of her constituents and the United States are glad to see unhappy. 

Dissatisfied zealots, however, can cause some trouble. The recent two-day occupation of a Manila broadcast sta­tion by disaffected Marcos supporters brings into question the possibility of bigger, more powerful revolts in the fu­ture. Add to this the rift in the military over how to treat the unsuccessful mutineers -some urge aggresssive retribution, and others, a lighter sen­tence -and what emerges is a swirl of many competing interests surrounding Aquino. 
The unceasing pressure on Aquino from all sides threatens to reduce her to a pawn that both left and right can use to gain eventual power. She deserves credit, though, for hanging tough, and so far it is working. The Philippines, with considerable support of its constitution, now stands as one of Asia's most legitimate and credible democracies. 
One wonders if Aquino's refusal to adopt a series of ideologically violent rules, which some would call naivete and which I would call remarkable and admirable, set her up to be toppled. The possibility exists that she will be eliminated, only to be replaced by one who will adopt the "real" rules of the game: police and military power to eliminate opposition. History does not reward revolutionaries who follow a line of peace. The opposition usually kills them. 
A stark scenario such as this would be disastrous for both the Philippines and the United States. Our country has a great interest in supporting the work of leaders like Aquino, and at least be­caus~ our military bases stand to be eliminated. A leader with the conscien­tious strength of Aquino deserves our praise, but also our support. 
Ken Kollman is a junior and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Theatrical tragedy, as most of us have been taught in an English class at some point in our academic careers, typically involves a character of high esteem brought down not by vice, but by some weakness or error in judge­ment. Usually this flaw surfaces as the character's quest to gain power, wis­dom or money ends with horrifying results. As part of the foundation of our literary heritage, these tragedies were staged on Greek amphitheaters, lat~r in the Globe theater, and today m theaters around the world. 
Mary Ann White 
guest column 

Today, however, one can witness a tragedy of a different sort without going to the theater. Unfortunately, the stage no longer belongs to the world of acting, but to that of real life. The media often presents a stage in the streets of Manila, Chile, Johannesburg, and sometimes even Chicago or South Bend. But the stage is also set in labo­ratories around the world as we push to improve our technology and in cor­porate offices where executives strike to increase profits at any expense. Though we cannot deny the numerous benefits of the majority of today's tech­nological advancements, dramatic tragedy teaches us to know our limita­tions, which would seem to apply to the world of science. 
Even on our own campuses, the con­cerns over getting the best paying job, going to the right party and being seen with the right people shows that quite often, we partake in this tragedy, too. True, we cannot fault a person for not taking action on issues of injustice if he or she is unaware that they exist. But this is our character flaw: the basic lack of awareness concerning the issues of social justice today. No one will dis­pute that it is difficult for most students to find huge amounts of time to dedicate to a cause. And so often, it is easiest to brush off the issues by using the usual, "What can one person do to help?" line. The longer we let our ignornace of the issues persist, however, the longer we unknowingly contribute to these tragedies. 
Recently, I participated in the Urban Plunge program offered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students over Christmas break. Like so many people, I was totally unaware of the number of injustices that the poor suffer every day in cities across America. Though I am far from a complete grasp of the issues, the Plunge showed me the incredible number of organizations that are working to improve the situation for the poor. 
Here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the opportunities for involve­ment in similar organizations exist right at our fingertips. The Center for Social Concerns and Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and Justice Educa­tion Departments offer countless ways to make us more aware of peace and justice issues. Whether through partic­ipation in different organizations, lec­tures, movies or publications, these groups are willing to educate us. No one is asking that we completely give up our social lives and other interests for such causes, but we must become more aware of the issues at hand. 
Most theatrical tragedies take place in five acts. For the real life tragedies taking place today, we do not kno\\ what "act" we are in. But as a society, we must act soon while we still have time to prevent the outcome that most theatrical tragedies have. In the words of Archbishop Bernard Law of Boston, "what good would life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness be if we become victims of our own technological bril­liance -if the life our our mother Earth is extinguished?" 
Mary Ann White is a junior English major at Saint Mary's College. 
Quote of the day "If you are constantly being 
mistreated,  you're  
cooperating  with  the  treat­ 
ment."  

Dr. Robert Anthony 

-----------~-­
VieWP.Oint Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 10 
Special Olympics will benefit from NVA effort 
I am prompted to write this column as the Lewis Hall representative for Late Night Olympics. I was approached by my dorm president and asked if I would like to represent our dorm, and I agreed without really knowing anyth­ing about the event. The only thing I knew was that it had some connection with Special Olympics. Since I have never been personally involved in Spe­cial Olympics, I saw my participation in Late Night Olympics as an indirect involvement. 
Sheila Horox 
guest column 
By now, most of you are aware that this event is being held at the ACC this Friday, February 13, from 9 p.m. to 4 
a.m. It has been organized by NVA and its purpose is to raise money for Special Olympics. The proceeds that we raise will be donated to the St. Joseph County Special Olympic Fund. In other words, our participation in this event con­stitutes an act of giving that will benefit the local community. 
NVA is taking advantage of its access to all the facilities at the ACC by scheduling a wide variety of activities from the Not-Quite-So-Olympic sports 



P.O.BoxQ 
Student is considered automatically guilty 
Dear Editor: 
The rights of Notre Dame students have been violated in many ways during the past four years. Last week, however, a new low was reached when I lound out that even being in compli­ance with Indiana state law is not enough any more. 
This situation started innocently enough when I went into the King Cel­lars on U.S. 31 to buy a six-pack of Heineken. I showed the clerk my trusty Missouri driver's license which clearly stated that I was born on April 24, 1965. This license had never been questioned before. Because the clerk was still not satisfied, I produced two more pieces of identification. Then, without a word of explanation, the still-disbelieving clerk called up a Roseland police offi­cer. After looking at my license, the officer grabbed my drivers license as well as my student I.D. and ordered me to follow him to the Roseland police sta­tion. Once we were there, he called Notre Dame's security department and asked that they release my date of birth. Since this is protected informa­tion, they refused to reveal my birthdate over the phone. Their advice to me was to give up immediately if I was not 21. At this time the police offi­cer explained that the whole problem with my license was that the social se­curity number was typed slightly lighter than the rest of the license. After showing me an Indiana license which contained only one type size, he threatened to impound my drivers license until I could show him my birth certificate. The end result of all this was that I was given a ticket for being a minor in a tavern which would be to a Valentine's Soc-Hop. The Olympic activities include such sports as half­court basketball, indoor soccer, broom­ball, and a sure to be favorite, innertube water polo. For those opting for less strenuous activities, carnival type events, called Not-Quite-so Olympic Games, will be available like the celebrity dunking machine, darts, and a ping-pong challenge. 

The money being raised is generated 
in several ways. Every team that 
enters an event pays an entrance fee 
of approximately five dollars, the cost 
being split among the team members. 
All entrance fee money goes to the St. 
Joseph County Special Olympic Fund. 
All revenue generated from the car­
nival type events also goes to Special 
Olympics. 

Aside from giving Notre Dame stu­dents the chance to raise money for a very worthy cause, NVA has added an­other incentive by giving the dorms a chance to win some money. The dorms have been paired off into teams and each team antes $100, which is then set aside after 20% of it is given to the Spe­cial Olympic Fund. Using the intricate . scoring system devised by the NVA, the team with the highest point total at the end of the night will win the pot of money. The dorm competition not only gives students a chance to get to know 
people within their own dorms but also the dorm or dorms they've been paired up with as well. This night is a social opportunity, something we at Notre Dame are often in desperate need of. 
Only now that the event draws so near am I able to look back in retrospect and appreciate the efforts of so many indi­viduals, those at NVA and each of the dorm representatives. My fist per­sonally banged on every door at Lewis (keep in mind we do have the largest women's dorm) and my voice was lost somewhere in the process ofexplaining what Late Night Olympics was about. But only when faced with a blank sheet of paper before me, compelled to write about the importance of this event, did I really come to understand what this night means. 
Late Night Olympics is an event that transcends itself, in that the effort we put into it benefits others. Since the money we raise goes to the St. Joseph County Special Olympic Fund, it fol­lows that I should talk for a moment about Special Olympics in general. 
If someone were to ask me to explain the significance of Special Olympics, my first inclination would be to describe it in terms of handicapped in­dividuals learning to believe in them­selves and, conversely, our coming to believe in them. Special Olympics is 
invalidated only if I could show him positive proof of my date of birth in 10 days which I gladly did since I am 21. 
Hopefully, this incident will warn stu­dents about the current attitude of the Roseland police. Problems can and will develop when students are assumed to be guilty until they can prove their in­nocence. 
John Bauman Morrissey Hall 

Students must aid in maintaining security 
Dear Editor: 

Many, many thanks to the student who took the time to report a suspicious activity! On the night of January 29, 1987 an unidentified student walked to the Main Gate and reported suspicious activity in the D-6 parking lot (near the ROTC building). The student provided a description of a car and its location in the lot. Notre Dame Security officers responded to this call and subsequently apprehended three juveniles. The juveniles, one of whom was armed with a loaded handgun, broke into a stu­dent's car and face charges for posses­sion of stolen property, theft and cri­minal mischief. Furthermore, the apprehension in this case provides a solid lead for the County Police in a related burglary of a home. 
The student who reported this suspi­cious activity did a great service to our community. He faciliated the ap­prehension of potentially dangerous criminals and took only a few moments of his time! The Security Department maintains 24-hour patrol of campus but to be more effective, we need your help. To maintain a safe environment on campus, we need each of you to take time to report any and all suspicious activity. Simply call security at 239-5555 or 283-4444 at any time to report any suspicious activity. Security is never too busy to check out anyone or anyth­ing suspicious. Remember, you are not required to give your name! 
Beginning soon, Security and The Ob­server will cooperate to publish a "police beat" type column. This column will outline recent activity of the Security Department, will provide important crime prevention informa­tion and will be used to solicit informa­tion from the community about un­solved crimes on campus. 
Please join our department by report­ing all suspicious activity. This will send a strong message to would-be criminals. At Notre Dame, we look out for each other and we're not an easy mark! Thank you in advance for your support and cooperation. 
Phillip Johnson Assistant Director Security/Police Department 


Sorin hockey players display poor conduct 
Dear Editor: 
A bench-dearing brawl took place during the Pangborn-Sorin interhall hockey game last Thursday. It oc­curred at the beginning of the second half. Pangborn led the game 6-0. The Sorin team had been delivering cheap shots the entire game; however, the illegal check that initiated the brawl was inexcusably blatant. 
The league specifically prohibits 
checking and is intended to be fun for 
those not skillful enough to participate 
at the varsity level. Yet, a Sorin player 
took a ten stride run at a Pangborn synonymous with opportunity. For so long we told handicapped persons, "You Can't," but Special Olympics repudiates that notion. Special Olym­pians learn to say, "Yes I can," if only they are given a chance. We are giving people the chance to discover for them­selves that their opportunity for ac­complishment is limitless. It is not win­ning that's important, but the bravery in the attempt. 
Late Night Olympics is our chance to make their dream a reality. The Notre Dame community is known for its generosity, and this event is essentially an act of giving. It might not seem like giving because the events are going to be so much fun, but our mere partici­pation is helping so many others. 
My intentions in writing this article are to make everyone aware of this im­portant night but also to urge everyone to get involved, whether it be by par­ticipating in several of the Olympic events or by stopping in at the carnival games. The most important thing tore­member is that the event is raising money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. It is a very worthy cause, worth getting involved in. And I guarantee you'll have a great time . 
Sheila Horox is a senior American Studies major and Lewis Hall represen­tative for Late Night Olympics. 
player and deliberately knocked him to the ice in front of the Sorin crowd and bench. As the Pangborn player at­tempted to retaliate, he was kicked in the neck by the same player who delivered the original blow. The Pangborn player was taken to the hospital by ambulance.1~stitches were needed to close the wound. 
Let it be known that even with blood running from his neck the wounded Pangborn player searched the ice for his cowardly assailant. He never found him because the responsible "Otter" could only muster the courage to skate off of the ice and hide among his friends. 
Sorin fans were elated to see this type of action. Both the team and fans seemed only interested in trying to in­jure the opposition. Sorin players were even seen giving each other "high­fives" after receiving roughing penalties prior to the brawl. 
We have been informed that this type of behavior is not uncharacteristic of the Sorin team. As a result of their in­eptitude on the ice, Sorin falls behind early in each game and then concen­trates on their specialty -cheap shots. 
Our main point is that Sorin does not play hockey to win but rather to hurt people. We hope that this letter does not glorify their actions. 
We do not know how many residents of Sorin were aware of the team's con­duct, however, if people did know of their behavior, why didn't someone have the common sense to put an end to it? The incident was an inexcusable display of poor sportsmanship that greatly marred the fine tradition of Sorin Hall. 
Tom Shallow Hall President Mike Schreder Vice President Pangborn Hall 

General Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler • Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1968 
------~-­
----------~ 
-~---~----------­
-



Accent 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 11 
•



enan1 
ans 
S 
MAUREEN RYAN respected Image to continue rewarding aspects of the long final Commencement concert. members hope to keep busy Features writer after she leaves Shenanigans. hours of practice, "we all love In addition to their regular and continue to perform for Her brother Jim, presently in to perform, and the friends we schedule, this year the group new audiences In new loca­henanlgans ... the name Rome, previously was involved have made through the group will be traveling to Los Angeles tions. Most of ali the group may be misleading. To in .the ensemble and should are very special. It is rewarding for a I 0-day tour. The event wants to malntalnq the tradi­some It recalls the word used continue his participation in the when we get to perform." will be funded by the money tion, and allow the University to by a grammar school teacher club next year. Annual performances so far the group has made them­discover that Shenanigans Is a to describe one's behavior In Although family interest is consist of a Fall concert in the selves, with the help of funds very talented and worthwile fourth grade art class. Others common, each individual must ACC. a traditional Christmas from the Alumni Club, their club. They are serious about think of it as a leprechaun's earn his or her own position. concert. a junior Parents biggest support group so far. their success ... regardless of Idea of a good time. At Notre The 20 members chosen this Weekend performance, and the Throughout the year the their name. Dame, however, the name year had to compete against as represents a group of 25 dedi­many as 70 others trying out. cated performers who hope to recall after recall, until the final make themselves recognized selections were made. and remembered as a long las­The qualifications for a posi­ting tradition. tion in the club relies not on 
Shenanigans Is a student simply singing or dancing tal­formed, student directed sing­ents alone, but "an equalibrium Ing and dancing ensemble that between song and dance", began only five years ago. It Junkins explained. "Both fac­consists of I 0 female mem­tors are stressed in a different bers, I 0 male members, and way, so someone with a great five accompanists. The club Is voice, but who can't dance, run by the members them­would have to be cut." selves under the direction of its Junkins has been a member four student officers. Senior Ed of Shenanigans since his fresh­Junkins acts as music director, man year, investing a great Julie Grantham choreographs deal of his time to the club, as the routines, Ken Dice is gen­well as singing in Morrissey's eral officer, and Dan Bishop vocal group, and acting as vice takes care of the finances of president of the Glee Club. the club. Grantham and he work to­
The students have taken all gether in creating the routines of the responsibilities into their for their performances. "I own hands and actually prefer choose and teach the music, this freedom over that of a while Julie makes up dance hired full time director. routines to go along with it" 
"We all feel we are creative The "teaching"includes prac­enough to depend on each tice sessions three days a week other to run our group." Gran­for two hours rehearsing tham explained. various numbers from medleys 
Grantham's sister, Jenny, of music ranging from the Big thought up the Idea for such a Band era to Disney tunes. club In 1982. Since her sister's All the hard work pays off graduation, Julie has been when the young performers 
working to give the group a finally get into the spotlight. Members of Shenanigans are taking big strides toward becoming an Institution highly recognized, well Grantham described the 




Diving for dollars 
A 
PRATIBHA TRIPATHI at Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquattc and reveal the details of I 7th­Features writer Center by Matthewson and century Spanish colonial life in other noted archaeologists." the New World." fter 16 years of engaging Matthewson and other divers Matthewson will present a and adventurous search pieced together the jigsaw puz­six-lecture series and a three the mystery of a $400 ar­zle that slowly revealed the hour practical session in Rolfs chaeological adventure will un­"motherlode"--the bulk of pre­Aquatic Center focusing on un­fold in the library auditorium cious cargo. The ship yielded derwater mapping and record­Friday, Feb. 1.3 at 7:.30 p.m. delicate jewelry, gold and silver ing procedures. The Ar­
The author of Treasure of the coins--fresh from the mints of chaeological Research Assistant Atocha and the co-founder of Mexico and Potosi--and over a workshop by the Atlantic Al­the Atlantic Alliance, R. Duncan thousand silver ingots. liance for Maritime Heritage Matthewson Ill will discuss in While making its second conservation is sponsored by "fascinating detail the search­voyage more than .350 years the Department of Anthropol­ing and finding of a sunken ago, the treasure galleon was ogy. Spanish ship, Nuestra de lost in a hurricane. It was hid­"The workshop will teach the Atocha," said Jim Bellis, pro­den under a protective blanket significance of wrecks to sport fessor of anthropology and of sand in only 54 feet of water divers. Those who wish to par­sponsor of the Notre Dame and 20 miles from Key West, Fla. ticipate should contact me Saint Mary's College Scuba The treasure estimated to be through the Department of An­Club. worth $400 was scattered over thropology," said Bellis. 
In the 1960's Bellis seven miles on the bottom of "Participants need not be befriended Matthewsom in West the ocean until it was dis­members of the Scuba Club. Africa. According to Bellis Mat­covered recently by Mel Fisher, But all participants of the thewsom "who has been char­president of Treasure Salvors, practical work shop at Rolfs acterized as the most contro­Inc. Center must have proof of versial archaeologist in "Working in close collabora­scuba certification." Bellis America" will relate an insider's tion, Matthewson (and others) said that an advance certifica­account of one of the most brought cultural meaning to tion in archaelogical training fabulous wrecks of all time. the wonderful things my sal­will be given to those who at­

"The lecture on Friday is free vage divers were bringing up tend and will also enable them to the public," said Bellis. "On from Marquesas," said Fisher. to attend forthcoming expedi­Saturday, Feb. 14 and Sunday, 'The restoration of the valu­tions to underwater abandoned Paul Oeschger/The Obaerver Feb. 15 a training workshop able artifacts had to be per­mines of St. Louis and other 
It takes more than just a good voice to be In Shenanigans will be given in classroom and formed precisely to preserve organized tours. 

-

Accent 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 12 


GERTIE WIMMER 
• features writer 

E 
veryone is looking for a return to summer, espe­cially the citizens of South Bend and surrounding counties. The Beach Boys pro­vided that warm feeling tonight just as they have been providing it for the last 25 breakdown of the then 22-year­old producer and writer of the most popular Beach Boys songs, Brian Wilson. He has been under psychiatric care on and off ever since. Rumors fly about a grand piano being placed in a giant sandbox in his living room. 
But this is all history, you say. What have these boys of lively crew. 
With Love at the helm, the Beach Boys provided wave after wave of hits from past decades, including the classics "Dance," "Surfin' Safari," "Surf City," and "Wouldn't It Be Nice." Carl Wilson, lead guitarist for the group, sang the ballad "God Only Knows (What I'd Be Without You)," the 


started by three brothers, Carl, Dennis and Brian Wilson (the mastermind behind the band's ethereal harmonies.) Mike Love, lead singer and a cousin to the Wilson's, and Alan Jar­dine, a friend of the family, have also been with the group since Its foundation. 
Changes have been made in the band lineup through the years. Bruce Johnston, vocalist and keyboardist, has been with the group since 1965. And 
198.3 marked the untimely
-
death of Dennis Wilson, the only member of the Haw­thorne, Ca. band who actually did surf. Unknown to many, Glen Campbell, the rhine-stone cowboy himself, spent 12 months as a boy of the beach. 
The group has also suffered setbacks, Including the nervous see them, it was obvious when the lights went down precisely what everyone had come to see. For the first time that eve­ning, everyone was standing, and cheering, and clapping. Even the hi:Jinx of two WSBT disc jockey's after the depar­ture of opening act Joan Jett and the Blackhearts hadn't brought out the smiles that broke out when Mike Love, hat firmly on head, emerged from the wings. 

The group welcomed the crowd with the opening song "California Girls," which incorp­orated various synthesizer and guitar solos. It looked as though the boring crowd that had barely applauded for Joan Jett, another veteran of the music scene, had been replaced by a new and more approaches shown by Jett and Mike Love. While Jett didn't even talk to the crowd outside of introducing her songs, Love played with the crowd, teasing them throughout the show with baiting comments about riotre Dame sports teams and the school. 
Spoofing their own long mu­sical history and the nature of their audience, Love said "409," on~ of the songs they would subsequently play that had received much applause when he suggested playing it "was recorded in the 1900's." Without a breath between them, the Beach Boys then proceeded to play "Little Duece Coupe," "Little Old Lady From Pasadena," "409," "Little GTO" and others. 
Again teasing the crowd at the opportunity of her life, "Fort Wayne, or where ever we McDonnell sang "Barbara Ann" are," Love dedicated "Good with the band, and the audi­Vibrations" to them before in­ence, and even John Stamos troducing the number with the and Joan Jett, who had Notre Dame cheerleaders and rejoined everyone on stage. the leprechan, "Be True to Your The show ended with a rousing School." Maureen McDonnell version of "fun, Fun, Fun." It remained on stage till the end, had been fun. The Beach Boys doing a dance with Bruce had given the SB audience ex­Johnston at the keyboards. In actly what they came for. 
The Super Bowl 
In Britain it's 'just super' 
S 
o this is London. An ocean away--another continent, country, culture. And yet here, too, it is Super Bowl Sunday. 
Earlier today I turned on my walkman in hopes of listening to some British music. Instead, Radio-2 was conducting a Super Bowl poll. Hundreds of British called to make predictions about the winner of the game. 
Here it is, of course, "American Football." And although the game will not end here before .3 a.m., excitement runs nearly as high as in "the states." It didn't reach quite the level that it does in America, but then again the average Englishman knows very little about our game. This is evident by the broadcast preceding the game. The basics of the game were explained, much to the amusement of the darners gathered here to watch. 
The newspapers have run special sections devoted to the Super Bowl this week. The pubs and liquor stores have been making a big deal about the game, too. Huge posters and Budweiser displays fill many of the storefront windows. This fine, imported beer is on special here; a case will only set you back 12 pounds sterling or about $18. 
We found some American football fans last week as we waited for a bus. They heard us talking and knew we were lost. They offered help and asked if we were Americans. 
One remarked, "You probably don't even watch British 
football." "No," we admitted. Fumbling for a reply we added, "You probably don't 
follow American football." "Yes we do," they exclaimed. "We'll be watching the Superbowl on Sunday." We asked who they'd be rooting for. They didn't really 
say; they only added, "We love the Chicago Bears." "I am Refrigerator Perry," said one of them. We have traveled through five time zones only to find 
still more Bears' fans. At least they spoke with a British accent. 
The final outcome of the Radio-2 poll? Fifty-three percent for the Giants, and 4 7 percent for the Broncos. Maybe the British know more about our American pasttime than we think. 


The Observer 
Anyone interested in helping the women's track club with its home meet this Saturday is asked to attend a meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. on the track in the North Dome of the ACC. The club needs timers, announcers and meet officials. For more information contact Dan at 287­6616 or 239-6989. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a scrimmage against Saint Mary's tomorrow at 9 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Players should meet at 8:45p.m. at the main circle. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 13 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will host an indoor soccer tournament Sunday, Feb. 15, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles will play host to teams from Notre Dame, Michigan St., In­diana, Illinois and Marquette. -The Observer 
The Off Campus hockey team will have practice tomorrow at 8:15p.m. at Howard Park. -The Observer 
SAB Broomball Tournament Wednesday's Games 
Stepan Field I My N ... vs. Kookaburra IV, 4 p.m. Beauties and The Beast vs. Supply Side Advocates, 4:30p.m. War Pigs vs. Motley Crue TroJans, 5 p.m. Crack Addicts vs. Five Long Handles, 5:30p.m. 
Stepan Field 2 Turtle Avengers vs. Fan Club, 4 p.m. Let's Get Wide vs. The House, 4:30p.m. The Subhumans vs. Soixante ... , 5 p.m. Ben Wa gets a bye through this round. 
... 

21-1 DePaul wins big over Marquette 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Rod Strick­land scored 24 points and Kevin Edwards scored 10 of his 14 in the first four minutes of the second half Tuesday night to lead No.5 DePaul to a 88-76 col­lege basketball victory over Marquette. 
DePaul, 21-1, trailed by one point at halftime but Edwards led the Blue Demons on a 16-7 run for a 48-40 lead with 15: 46 remaining. 
Marquette, 13-8, clipped the margin to two on several occa­sions but could get no closer as Strickland controlled the game with his quickness. 
11Mt Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 11Mt ObM!Yer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classllleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classllleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocesstng-Typing 272·8827 
Typtng Free Ptckup and Delivery 277· 7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS COKER. 233-7009. 
BED AND BREAKFAST avatlable lor NO Jun10r Parents Weekend Two ntght minimum: 10 mins. !rom campus 272·5840 
Resort Hotels, Cruiaelines. Airlines. Amusement Parks. NOW accepttng ap­plications. For more tnlormatton and an application: wrtte · Nattonal Collegtate Recreatton Service. P.O. Box 8074, Hil­ton Head, S.C. 29938 
TTYPINGOICTATION­PROFESSIONALL Y HANDLED 259· 2334 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· Keys lost at the North Carolina game. 5 large keys and 1 small key. II round PLEASE call 2690. 
FOUND One gold earing with blue stnpes tn Momsaey Hall early Saturday morntng. Call £3470 to claim. 
Whoever took a royal blue Gerry ski jacket at Theodore's last Friday could you please call me or return ~. my ID is in the pocket Thanks 
LOST:CALC 106BOOK IN 1150'SHAG ON FRI V.lD1!7 IF FOUND CALL BILL P. X 1165 
LOST-BLUE ID HOLDER WliCENSE,ID, ETC IN SA BAR AREA ON WED NITE PLEASE CALL 284-5048 IF FOUND 
loot navy blue oportc08t mlaalng after dance at Knotlwood C.C. Sat. night lnltlalo-ACW on boHono love to hovo It beck 287-5903 
HELPIII I LOST MY 5-SUBJECT NOTEBOOK IN EITHER THE C. S.C. OR THE A.C.C. ON WEDNESDAY FEB. 4. IT IS YELLOW AND CONTAINS THE SUBJECTS· MARKETING, COM· PUTERS, LOGIC, ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE PLEASE RETURN IT OR I FAIL THIS SEMESTER. OKAY I'LL GIVE YOU A REWAROIIIIIIIII CALL TOM AT 283-4605 
Lost : Sliver Weddtng Band at the Rock. Major RewardUose 263-1807) 
LOST· Blue Notre Dome backpack at South Dtntng Hall on 2-9. If found please call 3487 as soon as poaaible It contains books and notebooks I need lor tests this week 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FALL SEMESTER 6838889 
house w-toom wtloor ..windows ..t>ed but no sheets 234· 7654 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1·800·237-2081 

I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI ON FEB. 12 OR 13. MARTY 2937 
OVERSEAS JOBS ... Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. ALl fields. $900·2000 mo.Sightseelng.Free lnfo.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
Want to buy a MACINTOSH. Call Erin 272·2357. 
....................................... 
TWO NEED RIDE TO TEXAS FOR SPRING BREAK FINAL DESTINATION IS MEXICO MORE THAN WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES CALL 2778 OR 1816 
TELEMARKETING 
Eern and have fun. 

Hours are Monday and Tuesday, 5 pm 
to 10 pm., Sunday, 11 am to 7 p.m. 
Good pay, short to indefinite positions. 
Immediate openings. 
MANPOWER 
Temporary staff specialists 
320 W. LaSalle 
234-0157 

Need ride to Ann Arbor for 2-13 Call Mary 3474 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
FOR SALE 

2 AIRTIX: INDY-FT.LAUD MAR11·22 $200 each. Call x3711 In pm. 
4SALE-ROUND TRIP TIX IN US ON 
UNITED-$250-CALL£3763 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 

400K MACINTOSH ext. drive. 272-3317 
TICKETS 
Druid neede Duke GAo Andy 1650 

NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. CALL 4334. 
I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DUKE GAs PARENTS ARE COMING FROM CALl· FORNIA BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL JOHN x1158 
$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEED DUKE TIX FRIENDS COMING FROM FAR AWAY PLACES CALL X4045 IIIII 
UP TO 6 DUKE GA-STEPHX3944 

I'N~'d'2 ·o~k;··GA:~·...o~~p~~~~~iy: ··~i: 
teen 233-9806. 

Need GA tlx for Duke game.Big Bucks. Call 284-4366: 239-6734: or 263·3854. 
HELPIII Loyal sons need seven Duke 
G.A.s and one student ticket for Dad Fest 87.... $ Will pay S Call 277-7547. 
I need two DUKE GAs. Mike 266 · 9483 
5Helpl4 God will strike me dead If I don't raise $2 million or get 4 Duke tlxl Andy 1650 
MOM AND DAD WILL PAY$$$ FOR 2 DUKE GA'S:CALL TIM 1372 
NEED DUKE GA'S WILL TAKE ANY NO. WILL PAY$$$ CALL STEVE £2180 
I NEED GA AND STUD TIX FOR THE DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL ANN 284· 5454. 
NEED 1 DUKE TIX, BADI LARRY X3479 
Need three basketball tickets for Sunday the fifths game. Will pay nicely! PLEASE CALL Colleen £3697 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
I need DUKE tickets! GA's or students tlx. Call Pete at 2029. 
STOP Go back to the last ad. I WANT YOUR DUKE TIXI 
I NEED 2 DUKE student tickets. PLEASE SELL ME YOURSIIII Call THERESA at x4041. Will pay BIG BUCKSIII 
Need 2 Duke GA's Call Pat at 2034 
NEED 3 GAs FOR BROOKLYN coli. B­Ball. Soft Seats call Sharon at 284-4297 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
................................................... 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH ­STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
Last Chance For Spring Break '871 South Padre Island, Daytona Beach, Steamboat Springs, Miami BeadY Fort Lauderdale, Mustang Island' Port Aransas, Galveston Island and Fort Wal­ton Beach. Call Suncheae Tours Central Spring Break Toll Free Hot Line Today for last minute information and reserva­tions 1·800-321-59111 
APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSmONS available on 2nd floor LaFortune appllcetlona due Feb. 13; lor more In· lo., atop by SAB oHice 
Need ride to Indianapolis for 2113. Call Teresa x1618 
The Observer Is looking for BAR and RESTAURANT reviewers. Reviewers are reimbursed for reviews. Contact Mary Jacoby at 239·5313 or 272-3833. 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE We deliver til midnight daily Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free til March 1. 272-4453 
BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SPIRIT WEEKIIIII 
BP SPIRIT WEEKI TONITE:X-C SKIING! BE THERE BPERSfff 
DRUIDS UNITE The High Season Is at hand WORSHIP ... 
CHIMES The Saint Mary's literary Magazine Is Now Considering POEMS STORIES PLAYS PHOTOS DRAWINGS Submit to CHIMES MAGAZINE CO MAX WESTLER 310 MADELEVA HALL 
···························s········..····..··· 
LONELY? Don't get enough leHers from home? If you don't mind misspelled words & have an interest in: HORROR 
H.P.L. Trsveoty of life SpageHI Wes­terns Humor Then correspond with: Bart 41 07 Tara ct. Albuq. NM 87111 
Don't get enough leHers from home? II you don't mind misspellings and have an Interest in: Horror, H.P. Lovecraft, humor, Travesty of life and Spagetti Westerns correspond with: Bart 41 07 Tara ct. Albuq. NM 87111 
RIDE NEEDED: U. OF ILLINOIS FEB. 13-15 SHARE $$$$CALL LYNN 3021 
NASHVILLE BUDS: 
Clara, Ed, Marilyn 
& What's His Name 
Best 24 Hour road trip evert Burger 
King, "POP-U-LAR-IT-Y", ceramic turtles, 
Capitol Building urinals, Dykes in the Der­
riere, slice of Americana diner, parallel 
parking, Jimmy the bouncer, "Under the 
Boardwalk" (w' Rizzo and the Brady 
Kids), Bucket-o-Beer, and more. (The 
rest is on tape.) Get ready to relive it 
Wed. Nlte. 
NEEDED: ONE STUDENT TICKET lor DUKE • Lower Arena · Call Joanle at 277-4281 or 239-7668 
It's great to have you back, ANDREA BONNY and ANN MIDDENDORF. from abroad. I'm glad to have you two as friends. Happy Valentine's Day. Lots of love, Patti. 
LUCY CILETTI, I'm glad you didn't go abroad. I don't know what I would have done without you. MOLLY SULLIVAN and ROXANE VITTORI, you guys are the coolest. NINA MUTONE, thanks lor all the times I woke you up to get the door. You're SO cute II And to my other twin, MARIA "WOMAN" KATANZARITI, you wild woman you Ill It's fun competing with youlll Thanks all for caring, and for being the friends you are. Love you all, Patti Trlpathl. 
Need a ride to Purdue for St. Valentine's weekend. Can leave Fri. after 5:00 or Sat. morning. Please call 272-8617. 
As always, thank you St. Jude. 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
DEAD CUPID DEAD CUPID KILL PAS· SION NO RED NO ROMANCE NO HEART-ON SEX ONLY DEAD CUPID 
BUSINESS TYPES: The Observer is looking for students who can write commentary or analysis of business-related issues or events. If you are interested in writing, contact Jim Alley at 239-5313. 
Theology Majora and Minora: Please aHend an Important planning and In­formation gathering uaalon of the Theology Forum tonight at 8:30 P.M. In 341 O'Shaughneaay. 
Ride or riders needed: Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 13·15 Call Sara SMC 5214 
TOP GUN 
TOM CRUISE 
TOP GUN THURS AND SAT 7:30 AND 10:00 SMC, CARROLL AUD TOP GUN 
BIG APPLE WHO LOVES N.Y.? I LOVE N.Y. DO YOU LOVE N.Y.? 
BIG APPLE BROADWAY MADISON AVE 42ND ST 
BLOOMINGDALES! 
BIG APPLE 
BIG APPLE 
WHO LOVES N.Y. 
BIG APPLE 
""'"CHRIS JOHNSON""' Happy Birthdaylll Come on ladies, call this hunk of a man to wish him a great day. Call £2028 and ask him to buy you a drink Ill Happy Birthday, Chrislll love, Patti. 
A The thing ls .. add the Clone Factor and we're in some serious trouble. Sop­homores with aliases?? DKL 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
back by popular demand: CIRCUS LUNCH 11111111 coming soon to a dining hall near you I 
DESPERATE! NEED 2-4 DUKE TIXI WILL PAY WELLI LAURA X2854 
ANGIE, CHERYL, DENISE, KATIE, LAURA, LAURIE, MAUREEN, TRACY THANKS FOR THE GOOD TIME SAT· URDAY NIGHTIIII GUYS FROM 2ND FLOOR DILLON (OZ) 
OBSERVER NEWS DEPARTMENT All Interested cubs and cigar-stampers are invited to attend the lnvesNgaNve Reporters and Editors Conference at the University of Missouri at Columbia, a fac­tory of Pulitzer-Prize winners. Call Chris Bednarski or Tripp Baltz at The Observer office by 6 p.m Thursday If you'd like to go. 
AAS BICON 
CHAD, GET OFF THE 
BABYSITTER I 
TO THE SHORT GIRL WHO WORKS IN F-LINE DESSERT:THE GUY WITH BLOND HAIR WHO YOU SAID HI TO IS INTERESTED. 
Bookdtore blonde, You got my interest, now keep lt. Gator hat. 
Three gorgeous section-mates are taking applications for boyfriends Call 1242 for an appointment time. Bring resumes and references.One week trial period. 
Socks? 
Gee, your feet are cold! 
ANN..Too much has happened tor me to put It all in an ad, so I'll walt and when more happens, we'll write a book! Thanks for being such a GREAT friend and hang in there! Love, 01 
Orgenlzetlonel Meeting lor the 3rd An­nual Charity Bell will be held In the Little Theatre of LaFortune from 8pm untll11:15. Denny Herrlaon end Jill Gal­lon will be epeaklng. All are Invited to aHend.ll there ere any queatlona, pleeu contect Denny(x347ll) or Jlll(x3738). 
HEY MIKE LYNCH--Happy B·Day from BP's finest ghf!ttOII 
MIKE PASSILLA Roses are red Ear· muffs are tan Molsons are tasty And you're such a MANti 
RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI FEB. 13 CALL CHRISTINE 284-4341 
Karen Dettling, No, your secret valentine has not forgotten youl Hope you are having a super week. I'll get back to you In mysterious ways. -Your Secret Valen­tine 
"' Amy Wright "' Someone In Keenan that you don't know Is hoping your having a great week. Sorry for the tardiness but some things are worth waiting for. · Y.S.V 
.............................................................. BRIDGErS SPECIAL Wad: $1 Molsons 
................................................ 
D D D FLAMET I cannot get you off of 
my mind. 
You drive me crazy. 
Come over tonight. I cen't wait until 
Friday, and Saturday, and Sunday...etc. 
love. Brian 
DAVE STEPHENITCH Congratulations on passing the C.P.A. Have a good lifel Murph, Lisa I, Lisa II, Marta, Dennis, 1B, and Jeff Blumb 
There once was a girl so quiet and shy She went to church everyday, but Now she hea changed, and we don't know why Could It be the coolers or shots or The guys-she likes lots orr campus all nighters take their wear and tear Make studying on Sundays to much to bear And so we see Laura at Sunday night mass Praying for forgiveness from weekends past To easure this girl a shot at heaven Give her a call at SMC 5457 HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY Laura Jacob Love, P,M,S 
HEY ELIZI\RDBREATHI Where Is the button? Press the button! The button! Hey Baby Cakes, can I buy you a drink, you're looking so hot In that wilderness attire! Not Nol My 6'2", 220 lb. boyfr1end who makes me hot and sweaty Is In the car. We love ya anyway! THE LOVE TOYS & CHARD 
HEY DAVEY WAVY IN THE NAVY, COME SAVE MEl Have a great time at the Tri·MII. See ya there! LAND 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE. KEEP IT UPI 
TO THE FOSSiLS''AN'O"MY''FA'I'EN'OS': 
Thank you for making my 21 at birthday so special. I'm blessed to have such won­derful people In my life. I LOVE YOU ALL I LAF 
WAY TO GO, STEPHENITCH 
CIRCUS LUNCH II 
Socks? 
There once was a girl so quiet and shy She went to church everyday, but Now she hea changed, and we don't know why Could rt be the coolers or shots or The guys-she likes lots orr campus all nlghters take their wear and tear Make studying on Sundays to much to bear Ahd so we see Laura at Sunday night mass Praying for forgiveness from weekends past To assure this girl a shot at heaven Give her a call at SMC 5457 HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY Laura Jacob Love, P,M,S 
WAY TO GO, STEPHENITCH 
Nashville Buds Don't forget Pamprin, cold toea and beating the Daddy 8 to the bar. Until tonight. 
CHEESE DOGS. -WILDERNESS. 


February 11, 1987 The Observer page 14 



orts Wednesda 



Wales Conference Adams Division 
PLAYER G·S MIN·AVG FG·FGA w L T GF GA pta. Heidi Bunek 19·17 573·30.2 112-181
Pet. GB 

Hartford 29 21 6 188 181 64 Sandy Botham 19·11 501·26.4 96·172 .583 7.5 Boston 28 22 5 209 179 61 Olondra Toney 19·16 582·30.6 75·199 .522 10.5 Montreal 27 24 7 190 182 61 Mary Gavin 19·18 650·34.2 62·138 
.745 
Quebec 23 27 7 184 180 53

.313 20.5 Annie Schwartz 19·11 327·17.2 56·111 .234 24 
Buffalo 18 31 6 187 211 42 
Beth Morrison• 13-1 188·14.5 25·58
Patrick Division 
Cathy Emigholz 19·5 291-15.3 18~62 
Kathy Barron .15·3 177-11.8 15·45
Philadelphia 34 17 4 228 162 72 
N.Y. 
Islanders 25 23 7 189 185 57 Molly Mahoney 12·1 84·7.0 11-21 

N.Y. 
Rangers 23 24 8 219 216 54 Carol Elliot 13-1 131-10.1 7·23 Washington 22 27 8 183 210 52 Kim Garrison 2·0


.652 
Irish Women's Basketball 
Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division 
w L Boston 35 12 Philadelphia 28 20 Washington 24 22 New York 15 33 New Jersey 11 36 
Central Division 
Atlanta 30 16 Detroit 29 16 Milwaukee 29 21 Chicago 23 23 Indiana 22 25 Cleveland 19 29 
Western Conference Midwest Division 
w L Dallas 31 16 Utah 28 19 HousJon 25 22 Denver 22 27 San Antonio 18 30 Sacramento 14 33 
Pacific Division 
L.A. Lakers 36 12 Portland 30 20 Seattle 25 23 Golden State 25 25 Phoenix 21 28 L.A. Clippers 7 39 
Last Night's Results Cleveland 100, New York 95 Chicago 104, Philadelphia 99 Dallas 135, Portland 115 Houston 115, San Antonio 92 Boston 119, Denver 105 Phoenix 102, Utah 98 L.A. Lakers 114, Sacramento 98 Indiana 126, Golden State 125 Atlanta 125, Seattle 113 
Tonight's Games Indiana at Phoenix Atlanta at L.A. Clippers 
Sports Lists 


Pittsburgh 21 25 8 201 195 50 
Ellen Mauch 2·0 31~;:~_:;;tt;::::ii·~<;,·~;t · .ooo 'tX o-o .000 + 1 0.5 0 0 0 1 0 0.0
.644 .5 
New Jersey 22 28 5 196 246 49 

.580 3 Others 18·5 .475 7"13 .538 56 3.1 15 16 8 5 105 5.8 .500 7 Team 83 4.6
Campbell Conterance 

.468 8.5 A/'
Smythe Dvlalon .396 12 W L T GF GA Pta NOTRE DAME ,,,., .. 19·19 3825-40.3, ;;, 525-1112 A72 1~·259 .625 765 40.3 359 302 74 142 1213 63.8 
Edmonton 37 15 5 267 195 79 OPPONENTS 19·19 3825-40.3 Winnipeg 31 20 5 200 188 67 Calgary 30 24 2 218 212 62 Los Angeles 22 27 6 223 228 50 
AP Top 20 
Vancouver 17 33 7 187 224 41 

Norris Division Pet. GB Basketball .660 The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The
Detroit 23 24 8 176 191 54 .596 3 Minnesota 23 24 7 209 202 53 Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren· .532 6 St. Louis 20 24 10 182 205 50 theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
.449 10 Toronto 22 29 5 197 213 49 based on 20·19·18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents .375 13.5 Chicago 20 28 8 200 227 48 are italicized. .298 17 
Last Night's Results 1. Nevada-Las Vegas (51) 23-1 1,282 No games schadulad 2. Indiana (1 0) 19-2 1,215 Tonight's Games 3. North Carolina (4) 20-2 1,194 
Soviet Union National Team vs. NHL All-Stars at 4. Iowa 

21·2 1,086 Quebec 5. DePaul 20·1 987 6. Temple 23-2 963 .750 7. Purdue 18·3 909 .600 7 8. Oklahoma 19-3 867
lnterhall Hockey

.521 11 9. Syracuse 19-3 667 .500 12 10. Pittsburgh 19-4 603 .429 15.5 
11. Illinois 18·5 593
Gold Division Results 

.152 28 12. Clemson 21-2 578
Morrissey 6, Alumni 3 13. Georgetown 16-4 555 Alumni 7, Zahm 5 14. Alabama 17·4 458 15. Duke 19·4 454
Pangborn 6, Sarin 0 
16. St. John's 16-4
Pangborn 6, Zahm 1 325 
17. Kansas 18-5 286 18. Texas Christian 19·4 253 19. Florida 18·5 116 20. Providence 16·5 49 
Blue Division Results 
Others receiving votes; Memphis State 34, New Or·
Flanner 2, Off Campus 1 
leans 33, Oregon State 22, Kentucky 18, Navy 18,
Grace 3, Dillon 1 
UCLA 14, Western Kentucky 9, Kansas State 7,Cavanaugh I Howard 9, Carroll I Tulsa 7, Naira Dame 6, Ohio State 6, Texas-EI Paso Keenan 1 
6, Auburn 4, Marshall 4, Michigan 4, Middle Ten­nessee 4, Virginia 4, Georgia 3, Arkansas-Little Rock 2, Brigham Young 1, Cleveland State 1, SouthernSource: NVA Mississippi 1. 
Irish Fencing 
Men's Foil

USING THEIR HEADS? 
Kovacs 24-0 (1.000) 

..... 
Higgs-Coulthard 26-2 (.928)

1HE ONLY N1fl.. MEMBERS WHO DO NOT WEAR HELMETS 
Dwight Foster, Boston Clark Gillies, Buffalo ........, Nick Fotiu, Calgary ' 
Doug Wilson, Chicago AI Secord, Chicago Harold Snepsts, Detroit 
Mike O'Connell, Detroit Dave Semenko, Edmonton Craig MacTavish, Edmonton Willi Plett, Minnesota Peter McNab, New Jersey Brad Marsh, Philadelphia Ron Duguay, Pittsburgh Brad Smith, Toronto Rod Langway, Washington Randy Carlyle, Winnipeg 
Source: The Sporting News 
Holeman 24-2 (.923) Clark 16·1 (.941) Fuster 11·3 (.786) Gumbs 12·5 (.705)
'\ 
Mitalo 9·5 (.643)
\ 
Men's Sabre Stoutermire 31·2 (.939) 
' 
/ 
" , / 
Collins 27-6 (.818)
"' 
Rossi 22·6 (.786)
:.._/~ 
Yu 15-4 (. 789) 


Rawlings 11·3 (.786) Quinn 10·3 (.769) Reilly 2·2 (.500) 
-
Women's Foil Quaroni 27-4 (.871) Hynes 31·5 (.861) Kralicek 33·6 (.846) Barreda 31-7 (.816) Leiser 26·7 (.798) Weeks 25-9 (.735) Sully 14-1 (.933) Sullivan 11·3 (.786)
Observer Graphic: Geoffrey Sauer 
Men's Epee records were not available. 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Specia~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
Through Sunday PCT FT-FTA PCT REB AVG PF A BK ST TP AVG .619 42·57 .737 169 8.9 50 14 16 16 266 13.6 .558 33·49 .673 135 7.1 68 14 11 10 225 12.1 .377 30·51 .588 57 3.0 43 70 7 30 180 9.2 .449 10-21 .476 58 3.1 51 139 0 53 134 7.4 .505 7-13 .538 76 4.0 32 24 6 7 119 5.9 .431 8-13 .615 48 3.7 34 0 14 3 58 4.5 .290 9-13 .692 42 2.2 43 4 10 7 45 2.5 .333 4..S .500 20 1.3 5 5 0 1 34 2.3 .524 6-13 .462 14 1.2 5 2 2 1 28 2.3 .304 5-8 .625 5 0.4 11 14 0 8 19 1.6 .QOO .,;,,. 0·0 .000 1 0.5 2 0 0 0 0 0.0 
479-1191 .402 282-403 .700 692 36.4 291 219 31 191 1241 65.3 
lnterhall Basketball Sports Calendar 
Results from Feb. 4 to Feb. 10 Home games in CAPS 
Men's Results 
Today
ECAC Women's basketball at Detroit
Zahm B 36, Keenan C 35 Cavanaugh B 32, OC Hoobers 25 
Thursday Big Sky No sports scheduled St. Ed's A 51, Keenan A1 46 
Off Campus A 60, Grace A1 52 Friday Keenan A 1 over Cavanaugh A, 40T Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn Stanford A over Flanner A 1 Indoor track at Central Collegiates 
Wrestling at Michigan 
ACC Men's tennis at Marquette Morrissey A 64, Alumni A 1 50 OC-A over Carroll 
Big Ten 
Saturday
Pangborn A 46, Alumni A2 43 Howard 56, Fisher 44 Indoor track at Central Collegiates Sarin A over Pangborn A Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn 
Women's basketball at Tennessee 
SEC Men's fencing at Junior Olympics Pangborn B over Fisher B Women's fencing at Junior Olympics Morrissey over Alumni, forfeit Soccer at Budweiser Indoor Classic Fisher B over Alumni, forfeit Men's swimming at Valparaiso 
Women's swimming at Valparaiso 
Major Independents Men's tennis at Bradley (day) Sarin B 48, Stanford B2 35 Men's tennis at Oshkosh (night) Howard 46, Dillon B2 42 SMC basketball vs. GRACE 
Sarin B 61, Flanner B3 34 
PAC·10 Keenan B 48, Flanner B1 41 
Sunday
Stanford B1 45, Dillon B3 33 Men's basketball vs. DUKE
Morrissey B·Gold over Carroll B, for1eit 
Men's fencing at Junior OlympicsWomen's Results 
Women's fencing at Junior Olympics Farley A 37, Lewis A 31 Lewis B 38, Farley B 19 
Monday
Pasquerilla East 38, Breen-Phillips A Men's basketball vs. WAGNER
27 Badin over Breen·Phillips B, forfeit 
Tuesday
Lyons over Walsh, forfeit No sports scheduled
Source: NVA 
MISL College Basketball 
Eastern Dlvlalon East w L Pet. GB Cornell 74, Utica 56 Cleveland 17 8 .680 Fairleigh Dickinson 73, Miami (Fla.) 70 Baltimore 16 9 .640 1 
Villanova 71 , Penn 60 
Dallas 17 10 .630 1 
Boston U. 79, Vermont 72Minnesota 14 11 .560 3 Canisius 68, Hartford 65
Chicago 13 13 .500 4.5 New York 2 22 .83 14.5 
Fordham 85, lana 82 Western Division LaSalle 93, Holy Cross 60 Niagara 85, New Hampshire 67 Tacoma 18 6 .750 Yale 72, Army 64 San Diego 15 11 .577 4 
Georgia Tech 78, Maryland 74 
Wichita 13 12 .520 5.5 
St. John's 60, Seton Hall 57, OT
Kansas City 12 14 .462 7 St. Louis 9 18 .333 10.5 South Los Angeles 6 18 .250 12 Duke 98, Harvard 86 
/Southwest Louisiana 62, Washington St. 60 
Last Night's Results No games scheduled 
Midwest Tonight's Game DePaul 88, Marquette 76 AII·Star game in Los Angeles Drake 74, Northern Illinois 70 


9 pm­4~~VFI M}Jfic FREE! NVA A\1-Nighter
'V 

I 
lI ___·­

~--------------~----~---------------------------------------~­
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 15 


Alford takes shot at IU mark 
Associated Press "He obviously played too 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. early for me to enjoy watching Breaking Don Schlundt's 32-him or know anything about year-old scoring record will be him as a player," says Alford, 
an emotional achievement for who likely will pass Schlundt's Steve Alford, deeply infused school record of 2,192 career with Indiana's proud basket­points Wednesday night. ball tradition. "I just know what my dad's 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the follow­Ing position: 
1987-88 Editor-in-Chief 

Questions should be directed to Joe Murphy. Applications are due by February 12 at 5:00 p.m. 
The Observer 
3rd Floor 
Lafortune Student Center 
239-5303 

Saint Louis Universit 
Academic Year in Madrid 
FALL SESSION: COMPLETE CURRICULUM IN ENGLISH, SrA~:SH 
Liberal Arts, Business, ~ctence, Hispanic Studies 
••. i>'l th.e cLassroom with 
Spa>'liBh Students 
July session includes Gr.1r!uat.e Program in Hispanic Studies 
Designed· for the /'
concerned student 1/ who may not be 7 
financially affluent­The one who demands 
seriousness in education. 
INFORMATION: 
Saini Loulo Unlwnily 221 No..U. Cnnd BMI. Saini l.oul•; MO 63103 
1\111-frec lei.: (8001 32>6666 
Ht Didn't Ctt Thtre by Hanging Around tht Home Cantpw 
Eq}oy t1H n.ut,.,, ltrJUUm•, « Cultural Uft ort1H s,_w. C.lw 
told me. But I think he still probably still had an impact on me just by the example that he set for us on the floor." 
Schlundt, who died of cancer in 1985, was Indiana's leading scorer for four years from 1952­55. 
NBA 
continuedfrom page 20 
Paul Pressey and Sidney Moncrief a question mark, so too are the Bucks. 
Philadelphia is having a nice season, but when they traded Moses Malone they lost two million dollars off the team payroll, they gained an injury­prone Jeff Ruland, and they lost a chance to win it all. 
The Detroit Pistons have Isaiah Thomas and the Notre Dame duo of Bill Laimbeer and Adrian Dantley. Unfortunate­ly, they also have Chuck Daly as a coach, and too little be­sides Vinny Johnson on the bench. 
But who will win and who will lose is not the main issue here. The latest injection of talent has given the league a wider appeal. New superstars, such as Wilkins and Jordan, have made the NBA game exciting again. What else could account for the Chicago Bulls, a team that will count the season as a tremendous success if it wins as many as it loses, averaging 15,000 fans per game? Their uniforms aren't that pretty. 
No matter which team r~alizes the ultimate goal this season, the NBA will be the winner. It is now on a solid fin­ancial foundation fed by great fan interest. Whereas all but five teams were losing money just a few seasons ago, all but five are making money now. The infusion of exciting, young stars from the college game has helped to peak the fan in­terest and strengthen teams that were once also-rans. 
The fact that six teams think 
they have a shot at the Big Two 
makes all their fans think they 
have a chance. That makes the Associated Press 
CHICAGO -If Iowa Coach Tom Davis is a little apprehen­sive about the Big Ten basket­ball race in the approaching two weeks, who can blame him? 
"Every time you look up there's a nationally ranked team staring you in the face," Davis said Tuesday at the Big Ten's weekly telephone press conference hookup. 
The No. 4-ranked Hawkeyes take on No. 7 Purdue Thursday night, and on Saturday 11th­ranked Illinois invades Iowa City. The following week, Iowa goes to Ohio State and to No. 2 Indiana. 
"It's a demanding stretch," said Davis, "I don't know what would compare with it. Those are four strong clubs and then we play the Michigans after that. 
"There's not much breathing room. We all have to face it and that's an indication of how strong the Big Ten is." 
Some clubs could finish near the bottom in this league and finish on top in some others, said Davis, who is in his first year in the Big Ten after coach­ing stints at Lafayette, Boston College and Stanford. 
"Going down the stretch we have to play hard, take each game individually and not look ahead," said Davis. "We can't emphasize any one thing." 
Iowa might not be at full strength even if Bill Jones and Kevin Gamble recover from in­juries. Jones has an Achilles in­jury and the flu and has missed practice. Gamble also has missed practices because of a deep thigh bruise. 
But if any team is prepared for such eventualities, it should be the Hawkeyes because of Davis' theory of playing everybody early in the season. 
"Injuries and foul trouble are not as much of a shock," said Davis. "I look to use my bench early in the season. It gives you consistency and others feel ready to step in." 
In Purdue and Illinois, the Hawkeyes will be facing teams they have defeated on the road. They roared back from a 22­point deficit at Champaign to trip Illinos 91-88 in overtime, and followed that with a 70-67 triumph at Purdue. 
But neither coaches Gene Keady of Purdue nor Lou Hen­son of Illinois figure revenge will be a factor in their games at Iowa. 
"We don't talk about those things," said Keady. "We have to come up with a consistent defense. Iowa's rebounding and press concern us. We have to be consistent over 40 minutes. They rely on spurts and they can score 15 or 20 points in a matter of minutes if you're not careful." 
Illinois' immediate problem is not Iowa. The Illini must play at Minnesota on Thursday before going to Iowa and might get caught looking ahead. 

AP Photo 
Players like "Magic" Johnson and Isiah Thomas, shown here clowning around at this weekend's All-Star festivities, have helped to make the NBA a success. Rick Rietbrock discusses the phenomenon in 'Irish Items' on page 20. 
season remain interesting for come, creating the kind of of the remainder of the season in interest that even the February a lot of cities. And as the doldrums, or one of the NBA's turnstiles whirl, the NBA can remaining faults, a much-too­only marvel at how far it has long season, can't dampen. 






DePaul guard Rod Strickland (left) scored 24 points last night to lead his fifth-ranked Blue Demon team to an 88-76 win over Marquette. Details of the game appear on page 13. 
I 
l 
I 
I 
Smith aims for No. 600 tonight at NC 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -North 
Carolina basketball head coach 
Dean Smith is willing to leave 
it to others to determine the sig­
nificance his approaching 600th 
coaching victory. 
As he sees it, "it just means 
that I've coached for a long 
time." 
The Tar Heels held off Vir­
ginia last Sunday for Smith's 
599th triumph. Wake Forest 
comes into the Dean E. Smith 
Center Wednesday night with 
the possibility of becoming a 
part of history. 
Bill Guthridge, Smith's top 
assistant for 20 years, says it 
is his boss' style to avoid all the 
attention he draws. 
"He doesn't like to talk about 
himself," Guthridge said. "He 
would rather the credit go to 
the players." 
Smith, 55, will add one more 
entry to his list of achieve­
ments with a victory in the 
building named last February 
in his honor. No. 600 will move 
him past former Oregon State 
coach Amory Gill as the lOth 
winningest Division I coach of 
all time. 
Starting the year, Smith's 
record of 579-171 gave him a 
winning percentage of .772, 
fourth on the all-time list. With 
a 20-2 record through Sunday's 
action, he now has captured 20 
victories or more in 17 straight 
seasons. His only losing season 
in 25 years was his first, an 8-9 
mark in 1961. 
Mter that first season, Smith 
was hung in effigy for failing 
to produce a winner. Now, in 
the eyes of his fans, he could 
coach forever. 
"This is a great university 
and he likes to represent it," 
Guthridge said. 
lt took UCLA coach John Wooden 29 seasons to capture his 667 victories and DePaul's Ray Meyer coached for 42 to reach 724. if Smith stays on the job through the 1990s, he will even have a shot at Kentucky's Adolph Rupp, who has 875 vic­tories. 

~--~~-~-------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 11, 1987 ~page 16 

Final playoff spot brings tight race as P .E., Far-ey, Lyons roll along 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
A very strong Pasquerilla East team continues to domi­nate women's interhall basket­ball this season, but that has not curbed the intensity of play as several teams fight for remaining playoff spots. 
P .E. is 6-0 with just three games remaining, followed in the standings by Lyons and Farley A, both 5-l. Barring a. severe letdown by one of those leaders, several teams will bat­tle for the fourth and final playoff spot. 
Even P.E. will be tested in the upcoming weeks as it will face a very important matchup with Farley A. Other teams 
P.E. has yet to play include Breen-Phillips B (1-5) and Far­ley B (0-6). P.E. has momen­tum, however, as it comes off an impressive 38-27 beating of a tough Breen-Phillips A team 


t=T. LAUU~l2UAL~ 
WHEN YOU NEED IT BAD 

WEDEUVER: 
'1-Oceanfront accommodations for 8 beautiful days and 7 wild nights. providing air conditioning, color TV. telephone. swimming pool and sun deck. 
All of our hotels are located directly on the beach. 
~Optional kitchenettes available (first come, first serve basis). 
,.. Free pool deck parties.
'1-Food, merchandise and service discounts provided by local merchants to Inter-Campus Programs trip participants. 
'1-Computerized central reservation system to insure accuracy and organization.
'1-Full time staff on location to serve your needs during your stay. 


ROOM PACKAGE (4 Per Room) ROAD TRIP OPTION (INCLUDES ALL OF THE ABOVE) (DETAILS BELOW) 
ROAD TRIP: We w11l prov1de round tnp motor coach transportation departmg from your campus and travellmg stra1ght through to your hotel in Fort Lauderdale. All buses have rechn1ng seats and a1r condltlon.ng, and wash room fac1hties for a comforta~le nde. 
OUR HOTELS ARE LOCATED DIRECTLY ON THE FT. LAUDERDALE STRIP 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP: 

Sharon 283-1669 Michelle 283-2939 & Anne 
'i'HE NEW WAllE" 

L-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
(4-2) Sunday. 
Farley A, meanwhile, also showed its strength Sunday, beating 3-3 Lewis A, 37-31. This game saw Lewis take the lead in the first half, with Farley hanging in and approaching to within two points at halftime. Farley then came out strong in the second half, taking the lead and never looking back. 
"We were really unor­ganized," said Farley captain Marilu Almeida of her team's slow start. "Then we put it to­gether and played a lot better in the second half." 
The win by Almeida's squad gave Farley A a clean sweep over Lewis Hall this season, coming one week after Far­ley's victory over Lewis B (2­3). Led by Mary Borkowski and Almeida, Farley hopes to break the Pasquerilla East win streak on February 23, when the two leaders are scheduled to meet. 
Those teams also will b watching a 5-l Lyons squa which has scored victories i its last two games, one ove Walsh and one over Farley B. The team's only loss this year, in fact, was a 45-32 setback t 
P.E. early in the season. 
The Walsh team is 1-3, but i may be a better team than it record shows. 
"We've been losing the close games," said senior captain Patty Mileski, whose team can still pull off a winning record with five games left to play. 
Walsh was forced to forfeit to Lyons Sunday due to a lack of players and was victimized by the tough P.E. team the week before. 
"We played P.E. really close through the third quarter," Mileski said. "But we lost our intensity and fell apart." 
Walsh will get a chance to im­prove on its record Thursday when it faces Badin. 





______________.., 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 17 

Sophomore guard 
Smith is ND's man in the shadows 



By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
It's just a matter of time. 
That's a familiar refrain heard by players who stand in the shadow of nationally­recognized teammates. The frustration of constantly hearing those words from your­self and coaches can be hard to handle, especially when everybody knows you've got talent. 
But Michael Smith knows that his time is rapidly ap­proaching. 
And he's not the only one. Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps understands that while David Rivers stirs his team's drink these days, having a player of Smith's caliber in the wings is a comforting thought. 
"As an athlete, obviously Mi­chael lives in David's shadow to a certain extent," said Phelps, now in his 16th year at the Irish helm. "But honestly, people don't realize that with the quickness and intensity with which he plays~Smith ~as the potential to be one of the best defensive guards in the country." 
That's a strong statement to make about a reserve guard, but it's obvious that Phelps believes it. Smith, a 6-3, 185­pound sophomore out of South Bend, won the 100-meter dash at the Indiana state meet as a junior at LaSalle High School. His defensive quickness and pressing ability have enabled him to see playing time at 


1 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
The Country Harvester 
wants to make your Valentine's Day a unique one! Visit our country shop located in the basement of LaFortune and discover great Valentine's Day gift ideas for your sweetheart. 
We have a variety of colorful tins filled 
with: · delicious European chocolate 
• decorated heart shaped baskets · adorable stuffed animals · unique yogurt items · trail mixes · dried fruits and nuts 
--FREE SAMPLES-­
Hours: 11:30-6:30 Mon.-Fri. 12:00-5:00 Sat.-Sun. 
Notre Dame. Any further im­proving of his fine ballhandling and offensive skills should land him more regular time in the future. 
"Michael has to concentrate on shutting people down on defense," said Phelps, "because he is more than ca­pable of doing so. We've used him when we've pressed be­cause of his great quickness and as he continues to run our 

Michael Smith 
system and improve the way he handles the ball, he will be­come increasingly valuable to us over the next couple of years." 
Smith played small forward in high school, and his adjust­ment to point guard has not been without its difficulties. But Smith loves to run, and his role thus far suits that prefer­ence. 
"Even as a forward in high school," said Smith, who has seen action in 15 of Notre Dame's 20 games thus far this year, "I was used to running the floor. Sure, I think that the team this year has the potential to be a running team, but the situations in most of our games this year didn't warrant our running; we had to slow things down more. 
"Of course I'd like to see more playing time, and I'm sure that I will in the future, but right now it's just a matter of taking advantage of the time I do get and then playing well in those situations. I enjoy playing on the team. If I im­prove the things I need to im­prove, I'm sure I'll see more action." 
Smith sees an upswing in team unity this year over last, and feels that the squad can go far if that attitude prevails. 
"There is a lot more of a team concept this year," said Smith. "That's probably be­cause we realized that we had a good year last year and should have gone farther than we did. We know we can play this year. Coach Phelps is a big part of that. 
"Digger expects a lot out of everybody and he has certain ways to motivate and get the most out of the guys on the team. Sure, every now and then he'll get on you, but he does it because he knows you're capa­ble of doing better. He and (Assistant) Coach (Jim) Baron really know what they're doing." 
Phelps sees a good future for Smith, one which will probably extend far beyond the basket­ball court. 
"I love his personality," said 
Phelps. "He's a great kid who 
works hard and will get his 
chance. Believe me, he'll help 
us out a lot before it's over." 

Conner, Cup enjoy parade 
Associated Press NEW YORK-The America's Cup and the skipper who recap­tured it for the United States got a ticker tape parade Tues­day up Fifth Avenue, passing not far from the club that was home to the trophy for 132 years. Dennis Conner, who lost the cup to Australians in the New York Yacht Club's 1983 defense with the vessel Liberty, won it back at the helm of Stars & Stripes last week while sailing for the San Diego Yacht Club . 


The Observer 


AP Photo 

Philadelphia Flyers' center Dave Poulin (left), a graduate of Notre Dame, sends New Jersey's Gord Mark into the boards in a game earlier this year. Tonight Poulin and a team of NUL All-Stars will face the Soviet Union National team in an exhibition 
in Quebec City in Canada. 


Pack 
continuedfrom page 20 
playing down there, but she's very athletic and she makes very good moves to the basket. She is difficult to stop." 
The Irish will have to pay at­tention to more than Pack, however, if they hope to come away with a win. 
"(Detroit) has a very mature team--they're a senior team," said DiStanislao. "Two of their leaders are fifth-year seniors. They're all capable of handling the ball and pushing it up the floor. We're going to have to do 

Heidi Bunek 
what we do well to win. We're going to have to handle their pressure and get the ball in­side." 
The Irish also will have to contend with the hot hand of Detroit's Daphne Smith, whom DiStanislao labeled a "downtown shooter." The three-point line will be in effect for this game since the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference, of which Detroit is a member, 
DiStanislao noted the contin­uous improvement of sopho­more Heidi Bunek and the emergence of freshman Annie Schwartz into a solid per­former as positives for her team at this point in the season. Both players have played a key role in ·what has been a strong Irish inside game these past few weeks. 
"Heidi Bunek has made great strides in accepting a role and responsibility on this team. And Annie has come a long way. She probably has the best offensive rebounding instincts on the team, and she has a nice outside shot. As the year goes on she'll learn more about how to position herself to get more shots and rebounds." 
Notre Dame and Detroit will hit the court tonight at 7:05 
p.m. in Detroit. This is the first of two tough road games this week, as the Irish head to Ten­nessee to play the seventh­ranked Volunteers on Satur­day. 
·~~~... 
ON-CAMPUS NETWORK MANDA TORY MEETING! ALL OBSERVER NETWORK 
HALL REPRESENTATIVES: Thursday, Feb. 12 

7:00p.m. 

3rd Fl. LaFortune At The Observer 

.-------------­
550 
1 
•• $50 Coupon for: I Indoor Soccer I Sign-up at 

South Bend TurnersI Ironwood at the Toll Rd. •
1 * 8 game session starting Feb. 16. 1 * 1* Weeknights 10 pm ·? 1 l* 
I• 1 *
1* $50 deposit required per 15 I * 1member team (total fee-$350) I !
* 
I ~ 
I ~ 
; 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 18 





Class of 1991 signs on with ND 
The following is a partial list of recruits who have verbally committed to Notre Dame and are expected to sign a national letter 
of intent today: 
Recruits 
Kent Graham Tony Brooks Ricky Watters Frank Jacobs Scott Kowalkowski Andre Jones Todd Lyght Chris Zorich George Williams Rich Balantine Tim Ryan Joe Allen Don Grimm Brian Shannon Mike Callan Bob Carpenter Lincoln Coleman Brian Dowler Ryan Mihalko Peter Rausch Darryl Wodecki RB TE OL DE DB LB DL T LB DL DL DL DT DB RB WR LB T T PA KY MI MD MI IL NJ MO MO IL PA PA PA NY TX FL NH FL OH 
Position  State  
QB  IL  
RB-LB  OK  



Recruits 
continuedfrom page 20 
day, some scouts were citing this year's recruiting batch as "one of Notre Dame's best ever," Holtz virtually sealed that honor with the addition yesterday of two of the country's most-prized blue­chippers. 
Running back Tony Brooks, a 6-1, 215-pounder out of Tulsa, Okla., and tight end Frank Jacobs, a 6-3, 225-pounder who hails from Newport, Ky, both verbally agreed to attend Notre Dame next fall. Brooks, consid­ered to be the No. 1 runner in Oklahoma, turned down an of­fer from the Oklahoma Sooners to play for Holtz, while Jacobs, an almost-unanimous choice as the top tight end prospect in the country, finally refused over­tures from Penn State and Ken­tucky. 
Those two players join an im­pressive list of other prep players who have verbally committed to attend Notre Dame. Ricky Watters, a run­ning back from Harrisburg, Pa., coveted by Penn State and many other college powers, an­nounced last week his inten­tions to come to Notre Dame, following other highly-touted recruits such as quarterback Kent Graham (Wheaton, Ill.), defensive end Andre Jones (Hyattsville, Md.), and offen­sive lineman Scott Kowalkowski (Orchard Lakes, Mich.). 
Notre Dame's recruiting base, meanwhile, can truly be said to be national, with players coming from all over the continent. One recruit, run­ning back Lincoln Coleman, hails from the same area in Dallas, Tex., as that of current Irish star Tim Brown, while wide receiver Brian Dowler, a prep star from Florida, is the son of former Green Bay Packer star, Boyd Dowler. 


tions from February 10 to February 28 for their annual Distinguished : , Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an outstanding senior student at the University based on the following ; criteria: * I 
1. Service to Notre Dame * 

a, 
2. Service to the Community *
• 
3. Good Academic standing ! 
.

I THIS COUPON EXPIRES FEB. 13 1 :Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association office on the 2nd * I Call 277·0851 for more informatiOIJ *floor of the Administration Building, University Ministry offices-Badin :1 I . , . . I : Hall and Memorial Library and the Center for Social Concerns. : nd1ana s F1rst Built * *
$50 $50
I Indoor Soccer Arena I : Nominations must be submitted to the Alumni Association by February 28. ! 
.................................. ************~~**************************************•** 



']I['t[]tt:Jlttll~--------------------------------------------------------W--ed•n•e•sd•a•y•,•F•eb•r•u•ar•y•1•1•'•19•8•7···pa•g•e•1-9
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
•.1/NP WC'i't' Hlillf?P lfJW nEN PROST/TVTlaY, !'Rt6NIWCY. ll!i'V6 V,£, Cl/f..15, I?VNIIWIIY~, SIJIC//le IINfl ffJO(? HY61£N£ 
~ 



Beer Nuts 
Mark Williams 

LYNN, WU/..P r TALK TO IT's ... rTL .. Al!a/1' YOUT(' 
PoN' r W/JRR'/11801./T IT! THf LYNN, ITJ THE YOU FOR A SB: ? & IXJN'( 
t.JEI6HT. IF YOV /(f£f' ON 
Vf'fEKa/6S.AfEN TOL.P HE "fli"E51111AN .!§~ 
~Ar/IIJG-LIKE 'IOU HAVE

tiEAN roBE sNit£ OK ANr­
8££/V, 'Y0~ 1~t: {L)IIIf'{ll D.fWI)[.
TiffNrr. &Jr. •.
(i-rr~ 9:A.Rt. \'-tI 
Campus 
Career Day Seminar, registration forms are due today in the Engineering Student's Center. A $2 lunch fee must accompany the registration form. 
Applications available for Nazz Competi­tion and Student Activities Board posi­tions, all due Feb. 13, SAB offices 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15-1:00 p.m.: Saint Mary's Center for Sprituality Spring 1987 Series, theme: The Catholic Experience, topic: "The Catholic Experience and Sports," by Richard "Digger" Phelps, ND, Stapleton Lounge 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering Seminar, "Some Developments in Flexible Multibody Dynamics for Me­chanical and Aerospace Engineering,'' by Dr. Edward Haug, University of Iowa, 356 Fitzpatrick 
3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, DisplayWrite 3, Part 2, 108 Computing Center, limit 7, to register call Betty at 239-5600, JCL (Job Control Language), 115 computing Center 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Experi­ments With Slow Positronn and Muon Beams," by Dr. Allen Mills, Bell Labora­tories, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:30 
p.m.: Department of English 1987 Ward-Phillips Lecture II, "Heidegger's Uncanny Hermeneutics," by Prof. Gerald Bruns, ND, 222 Hayes-Healy 

4:30 
p.m.: College of Science Lecture, Part II, "Redox Chiumstry of Encaps­ulated Metal Ions," by Prof. Alan Sar­geson, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 




6:45-8:00 p.m.: Saint Mary's Sexuality Education Council's The Gender Agenda, theme: Playing Scruples in the Real World: Values and Conflict Resolution, Mary Roemer, South Bend, Stapleton Lounge 
7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "October," 1927, BW, 101 minutes, di­rected by Sergie Eisenstein, USSR, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Movie, "Easy Rider", $1, Engineering Auditorium 
8:00-9:15 p.m.: Organizational meeting, NDSMC 3rd Annual Charity Ball, Danny Harrison and Jill Gollon, Little Theatre in LaFortune 
11:15 p.m.-12:15 a.m.: Free skating and hot chocolate, ACC 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Swiss Steak 
Stir fry Chicken & Vegs 
Hungarian Noodle Bake 
Tomato Cheese Bagel Melt 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef 
Chicken Breasts 

"Seems like Gramp's been there forever ­fossilized right there on his favorite rock. ... Scares the hell out of the dog." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 John Jacob ­6 Continental 
prefix 10 Bedouin 14 Debbie or Pat 15 Springe 16 Part of the 
ear 17 City on the Mississippi 19 Gaucho weapon
20 Copy 21 Sharp taste 22 Genderless 24 "This Nearly 
Was-" 25 Five for 
Francois 26 Grass chore 29 Shaving the 
head 32 Included with 33 Tam-tam 34 -of Sandwich 36 Patch of grass 37 Tree trunks 38 Author Jaffe 39 "How do I 
love-" 40 Some sheep 41 Cephalopod 42 Unyielding 44 Manhandled 45 Norms 46 Be concerned 47 Sioux Indian 50 -Alto, Cal. 51 Collation 54 Sinister 55 Ala. city 58 Leslie Caron 
part 59 Chicago 
landmark 60 Wild -chase 61 Fusses 62 Finales 63 Kinds 
DOWN 1 Rhyme scheme 2 Shower 
necessity 3 Kind of bag 4 Yoko­5 Leasing 


C1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
6 Make amends 7 Dance like 
the twist 8 Cleaning cloth 9 Job oppor­
tunities 10 N.M. city 11 Core 12 Talented 13 Kodiak 18 Knelled 23 Nav. off. 24 St. Paul's 
sister 25 Pine features 26 Brewing item 27 City on the 
Missouri 28 Bowled over 29 Rental si'n 41 Skirt-like 50 Nudge 30 Painter Dufy garments 51 Norse god 31 Tennessee -43 Gym pad 52 "-of Eden" 
Ford 44 Bamako's land 53 Iowa city 33 Dresses 46 Bivouacs 56 Electrified 35 "Shane" star 47 Rue-Paix particle 37 That can be 48 Enthusiastic 57 Moo-gai 
endured 49 Unit of weight pan 


Feb. 11, 1987 
Hot Chocolate and Skating ~~-~ At the A.C.C.tl 

' 11:15 -12-15am. 
sponsored by SAB 

Notre Dame sophomore guard Diondra Toney looks to drive in a game earlier this year, while teammates Sandy Botham (52) and Annie 


Irish hope to forget tough defeat as they prepare for Detroit on road 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 

basketball team will be looking 
to rebound from a tough 
weekend loss to Miami (Fla.) 
when it heads to Detroit, Mich., 
tonight to face the University 
of Detroit. 
on Saturday afternoon was the 
result of a scrappy Hurricanes' 
full-court press. And Notre 
Dame head coach Mary DiS­
tanislao looks for a similar de-
Signing day brings prizes to Holtz, ND 
By MARTY BURNS Sports Writer 
Today is an official day of rest for the nation's college football coaches. Mter months of travelling around the country, searching out high school talent and making their recruiting pitches, today is the day coaches can finally sit back and start dreaming about na­tional championships. 
Because today is the first day high school recruits can offi­cially sign a letter-of-intent to play college football at the school of their choice. 
And from all indications, Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz can settle in for a long winter's nap secure in the knowledge that his first real recruiting class under the Golden Dome is also one of the best in the nation. 
Holtz filled all 30 scholar­ships which Notre Dame had to offer this year with quality players, and to the astonish­ment of many scouts, he plugged the exact holes which he most needed to fill. 
While even prior to yester­see RECRUITS, page 18 


fensive plan from the Lady The Lady Titans' top return­Titans tonight. ing scorer is Cassandra Pack, 
"We've got to see how well a 5-9 senior who averaged 19.5 we can rebound from the points per contest last season. Miami game," said DiStanis­DiStanislao had several ac­lao. "We had some costly men­colades for Pack, who spends tal errors in that game and we most of her time roaming the fell victim to the press. And paint against larger opponents. when we go to Detroit we'll be "Cassandra Pack is an ex­looking at more of the same tremely versatile player,'' said pressure defense. DiStanislao. "She is probably 
"(Detroit) is capable of her most effective at the post. scoring 90 points a game. She's like Wayman Tisdale in They'll try to get turnovers on that she's not real big to be the press and they'll push it 
see PACK, page 18
down the court." 
The Observer!Greg Kohs 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz will find,out today exactly which prep players have chosen to accept a scholarship to enroll at Notre Dame next fall. From all indications, this year's crop of recruits could be one of the best in Irish history. Details appear at left. 
Wednesday, February 11, 1987-page 20 
No Better Action around than in NBA 
Last Sunday's NBA All-Star Game was filled with suc­cess stories. 
Tom Chambers, the hometown hero, won the game's MVP after being named to the team as an afterthought. Julius Erving played marvelously in his last mid-season classic. And to top it off, the game went into overtime, with Rolando Blackman hitting two free throws with no time remaining to force the extra period. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

It is rather fitting that the NBA be blessed with such a 
momentous showcase. Mter all, the league itself is quite 
a success story_ 
The NBA used to suffer from poor attendance, lack of 
depth in its teams and a lack of general excitement. Today, 
what Larry Bird and Magic Johnson started in terms of 
building fan interest, Michael Jordan has elevated to an­
other level. And with the addition of the marginal fans 
Jordan brings in, the NBA is more popular than ever_ In 
fact, now some people can even swallow the notion that 
the players actually play defense. 
It's so popular now that the All-Star Game has become' 
an all-weekend affair, instead of one day with the stars. 
The Legends Game, the 3-Point Shootout and the Slam­
Dunk Championship keep the fans' attention for six hours 
on the day before the game, and then, if anyone has any 
energy left, the game arrives on Sunday. Whew. The 
demands of being popular, I guess. 
But the All-Star Game is only a reflection of the overall 
strength of the league. Boston and Los Angeles still have 
no company in champions' circle, but the gap is not nearly 
as wide as it was just a few years ago. In years past, fans 
from Milwaukee, Detroit, Atlanta, Houston and Dallas 
could just sigh when the Celtics or the Lakers were picked 
in preseason predictions. Only Philadelphia fans could get 
away with a disdainful chortle or guffaw. My, how things 
have changed. 
In case you couldn't tell by his level of play, Kareem 
Abdul Jabbar is within earshot of 40 years old. (Hint: if 
you don't believe me, try to remember the last time he 
had a full head of hair.) And also if you haven't noticed, 
the Lakers don't have anything that could resemble a 
center ready to take his place. That means one of two 
things: one, the Lakers will trade for a center soon, or 
two, the Lakers will fall a notch in the scale of the mighty 
when Kareem retires. He says it will be next year. Of 
course, he also said it would be last year. 
The Boston Celtics are not the dominating team they were even last year, either. Remember that season Bill Walton had last year, where he was healthy· the whole year? Most people are beginning to think the writers of "Dallas" created that dream too. Don't expect this dream to come back three times and become a reality though, because Walton's healthy seasons are all in the scrap­books. So are the Celtics' dominating ones. A team with no bench help past its eighth player cannot be a permanent kingpin, even though Larry Bird will keep them close. 
But who will catch these two? Perhaps no one this year, but it gets more difficult for them every year. 
If you throw out the Los Angeles Clippers, who are petitioning for membership in the Continental Basketball Association every time they take the court, every team can say it has a shot at the playoffs because of the NBA's ridiculous playoff system that doesn't separate the men from the mice, it separates the living from the dead. But even though all playoff teams do not have a legitimate shot at the Lakers and Celtics, the list of those who do grows every year. 
The Atlanta Hawks have perhaps the best shot at the Elite Two, based solely on the talent in the front line. Dunkmaster extraordinaire Dominique Wilkins leads a crew. of muscular leapers that can rout any team in a 
snap. 
Houston challenged the Big Two last season, but the Rockets have been shot down by drug scandals that cut Mitchell Wiggins and Lewis Lloyd from the picture. That, combined with Ralph Sampson's weekly trips in and out of Head Coach Bill Fitch's doghouse, have kept the Rockets from duplicating last year's success. 
Dallas is the newest team to become bored with mediocrity. The Mavericks took a journeyman giant, James Donaldson, added a sprinkle of playing time--and POOF--they had themselves a center capable of taking them to the title. 
Milwaukee is a contender as long as Don Nelson, the league's best coach, is at the helm. But with the health of 
see NBA, page 15 








