
· 1..ffRE DAMf. 
(;OLLCCTION 
How does It feeeel? 
Partly sunny Tuesday. High 50 to 55. Becoming cloudy Tuesday night Low 30 to 35. Mostly sunny Wednesday, but 
j ACCENT: Greek exploration 
IVIEWPOINT: Rangers: an elite organization 
cool. High 45 to 50. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 39 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Dow drops again, loses 157 points 
Associated Press Analysts said the market was still reeling from the history­
NEW YORK -The Dow Jones making plunge Oct. 19, when industrial average suffered its the Dow industrials fell a second-largest point loss ever record 508 points. In six days Monday, falling 157 points and of seesaw trading, the Dow has wiping out most gains made dropped about 450 points. after last week's staggering The value of all U.S. stocks 508-point plunge. Monday fell $203 billion to $2.23 
The selling followed a record trillion, or 8.4 percent, a one­loss on the prime Hong Kong day evaporation of wealth exchange, which lost one-third exceeded only by the $503 bil­of its value on the first day of lion drop one week earlier. The trading in a week. Tokyo, Lon­Dow average of 30 industrials don and other foreign markets fell 156.83 points to 1,793.93. also had large losses. "It was a panic, and it's still 
Investors appeared to be un­to some degree continuing," moved by deficit-reduction said Morton Brown Jr., re­talks between President search director for Edward D. Reagan and congressional Jones & Co., a St. Louis-based leaders that were called after brokerage company that last week's market panic. serves small investors in 38 
"It's a slow fade, sinking in states. the sunset," said Dennis Jar­Trading volume on the New rett, a technical analyst for the York Stock Exchange contin­investment firm of Kidder, 
Peabody & Co. see STOCK, page 6 
Gulf still active; Iran 'aggressive'
Associated Press Palestinians would fight alongside Kuwait to help gulf 
KUWAIT, -An Iranian leader Arab states deter Iranian "ag­Monday urged Iran to mobilize gression." for an all-out war against the The British move would en­United States, and senior offi­title the Kuwaiti vessels to the cials from Iraq and Kuwait met protection of British warships. to discuss a coordinated At least three British warships defense against Iran. and four mine sweepers are 
British officials meanwhile stationed in the Persian Gulf. confirmed that Kuwait has Eleven of Kuwait's 22 registered two of its tankers to tankers have been registered fly the British flag and is in the under the American flag, process of registering a third. giving them U.S. naval protec-
A prominent Palestinian guerrilla leader pledged that see IRAN, page 4 
Film may focus on ND 
Associated Press "We're going to work as hard 
but officials ·not excited and fast as we can," said Sen. 
WASHINGTON -President Robert Byrd, the SenateBy ERIC BERGAMO ulated that Notre Dame was Reagan and congressional majority leader. 
Senior Staff Reporter the setting for the movie. 
leaders talked face to face Many analysts have cited the Negotiations between offi­
Monday as they began a new huge federal deficit as contri­Speculation that the Notre cials of the Indiana Film effort to reduce the federal def­buting to Wall Street's majorDame campus may be the Commission and the fil­icit, saying the need to reassure declines last week. Stocks fellsetting for a feature-length makers have ended, and the the nation's shaky financial sharply again Monday on themovie does not excite the ad­producers are now raising markets added urgency to their New York Stock Exchange,ministration, Director for money for the production. 
task. with the Dow Jones IndustrialPublic Relations and Infor­Information on the movie The president met for nearly Average down about 157 points.
mation Richard Conklin is being kept secret under or­an hour with the Democratic
said. ders of the producers, the and Republican leaders of House Majority Leader"We're not turning hand­Tribune reported. 
Congress. Participants said Thomas Foley said to keep the springs over this," Conklin South Bend has also been there was no discussion of talks going "everybody
noted. scouted as a location for two 
specifics on such subjects as agreed" not to make disparag­An article in the South other films. 
possible tax increases or ing remarks about others whoBend Tribune on Oct. 16 re­But the University has not spending cuts, but there was might have differentported that South Bend was been approached about film­agreement on the importance proposals.
being considered as the ing a movie on the campus of their task. 
main shooting location for and is not excited at the 
"We have to be serious. All White House spokesman
the movie. prospect of films being 
of us have to be serious," said Marlin Fitzwater also saidThe Tribune said a source made on campus, Conklin House Speaker Jim Wright. there was a "truce on criticalclose to the project added said. 
"Today's session at the comments." And he said there 
that the moviemakers have Notre Dame is ap­White House was the first move would be little said whilenot looked at other locations proached on the average of in a high stakes game that we detailed, substantive talks,in the state and do not plan can't afford to lose," said Sen­scheduled to begin Tuesday,to look. The source spec-see FILM, page 4 ate Minority Leader Bob Dole. were under way. 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1987 
"We will, in effect, have a news lid on the specifics of the negotiations," he said. 
The Monday meeting was a prelude to the later talks on the meat and potatoes of crafting a $23 billion reduction in the fis­cal 1988 deficit as called for by the Gramm-Rudman budget balancing law. If the talks fail to achieve that deficit reduc­tion some other way, the law mandates across-the-board cuts on Nov. 20. 
Wright said Reagan's com­ments at the meeting indicated a desire to avoid either a budget freeze at last year's levels or automatic cuts under the deficit-reduction law. 
Several lawmakers spoke of going beyond the Gramm­Rudman goal, and of making sure that the deficit-reduction steps carried over into future fiscal years. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
In Brief 

Jay Dolan, director of the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at the University of Notre Dame has been selected the 1987-88 alumnus of the year by the University of Chicago Divinity School. A specialist in the history of the Catholic Church in the U.S., Dolan has authored several books, in addition to a wide variety of reviews and articles for popular and scholarly journals. -The Observer 
A panel discussionon the restructuring of corporate America was part of the regularly scheduled campus meeting of Notre Dame's College of Business Administra­tion Advisory Council. The panelists' message was that the chief executive officer of the future must be an entre­preneur who knows how to manage change. -The Observer 
Michiana's Crimestoppers proe;ram received international recognition when one of its 1ocal public ser­vice announcements was honored at the 8th annual Crime Stoppers International Conference. Crime Stoppers is an all volunteer program that works to solve crimes by of­fering rewards. It recently topped the one-million dollar mark in stolen merchandise being recovered and narcotics removed from the street. -The Observer 
/Of Interest 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will meet at 7:30p.m. in the Stanford Hall24-hour lounge. -The Ob­server 
South Africa will be the topic of a film series sponsored by the African Studies Program. The film series begins with "Cry the Beloved Country," starring Sidney Poitier, at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. The series continues with two films on Thursday, October 29. -The Observer 
Any students interested in working on the Cystic Fibrosis Dancing Feat project should attend a meeting at 8 p.m. in the Snite lobby of O'Shaugnessey Hall. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame College Republicans will be holding an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of the LaFortune Student Center. All interested students are encouraged to attend. -The Ob­server 
CILA, the Community of the International Lay Apost­
olate, invites all students and faculty to a "social aware­
ness dinneli'tap session" with Professor Luis Fraga at 5 
p.m. in the faculty dining room of the South Dining Hall. Professor Fraga will talk about the voting rights act and how it influences representation of minorities in govern­ment. -The Observer 
The University Counseling Center is presenting a lecture-discussion on managing perfection. This lecture is for persons who feel they demand too much of them­selves or who have difficulty accepting their successes. The lecture-discussion will be given by Dr. Rosemary Phelps and will be held in the Notre Dame Room of LaFor­tune Student Center at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
ProfessorMichaelNovak, Welch visiting professor of American studies, is conducting a seminar! discussion series for all faculty, staff, and students at the Center for Continuing Education tonight and the next two Tuesdays at 7:30 p.m. The three seminars will follow the topic of "Reflections on Philadelphia: The Constitution and the Catholic People." -The Observer 
W~m~n in Communication, Inc. are holding therr frrst program Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Saint Mary's Clubhouse. The speaker will be Terry McFadden of WSBT-TV on the topic of television broadcasting. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat# 3 sign-up applications are available at Campus Ministry in Badin Hall until November 6. -The Observer 

Delign Edit01" ............ Mark McLaughlin . De•ign A11i1tant . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . Jodi Topel Type•etters............... . . . . . . Dan Cahill .................................. Becky Gunderman Newa Editor............. ...... Regis Coccia Copy Edit01" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Matt Crowley Sport• Copy Edit01" .. . . ... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Edit01" .. Brian Broderick 

nt Olleener (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. ne Obeernr is published by the students or the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2$ per semester) by writina ne OWenn-, P.O. Bo• Q, Notre Dame,IDCI.iana46SS6. 
ne o..ner is • manber or ne .u.odllted Praa. All reproduction ri&hts are reserved. 
Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Accent Layout .................... Carolyn Rey Typi•t•................................ Jenn Conlon ............................................ Lynn Ewing ND Day Editor ...................... David Lee 
Scorning others' troubles doesn't help solve ours 
You can learn a lot of things when sitting in a bar. I think I came to this distinct conclusion when I was in fact sitting in a bar back home in New Orleans over October break. 
I did not come up with this admittedly less than profound thought out of thin air. There were two distinct experiences which I had that will support my opening statement. The first case has to deal with the stock market crash on "Black Monday" and the second with some­thing a bit more abstract. On last Monday, Oct. 17, as I was sitting in a neighborhood bar by my house with a group of friends from my hometown and an import from Notre Dame, I first heard about the news of the stock market's plummet earlier that day. (Granted, I picked up on the news a bit late; I was out all day doing touristy things with my friend from ND and had no access to the news media.) I was sober as were most of the people in the es­tablishment, so there were no dramatic reac­tions to the news from anyone. 
The reaction from most of the people in the bar, however, was of interest and wonder. All ten or so of the patrons hushed as the 10 o'clock news came on and the anchor tried to explainwhat had happened. The silence through the half hour special aired immediately after the news. 
What was so striking to me about the bar crowd's reaction was the levity with which the "closest thing to an (economic) meltdown" was taken. All throughout the man-on-the-street clips featuring somewhat hysterical investors, the obviously forced optimistic advice of some economic and investing bigwigs, and a usual caustic performance by Sam Donaldson, calm pervaded. Everyone listened to the news, talked a bit about how this may affect the future of the economy, and wondered aloud what he or she would be doing in a couple of years. 
More drinks were ordered. End of story. 
The second case concerned the following Wednesday night in a bar that was a bit less subdued than the first. It was quarter draft night, and local college students packed the place. 
After my group of friends and I had been there for a little under an hour, a man around 40 years-old made his way to the back of the half-filled dance floor and started dancing. 
The man was quite a spectacle. He did not have a partner and moved his body in wild gyra­tion. He would kick up a leg, spin around, then touch the ground John Travolta-style, and start all over again. He was like some whirling der­vish with a cult all his own. For upon further examination, it was obvious that he was dan­cing not with himself but with his shadow. 
Of course, everyone in the crowd looked at this guy and just laughed. People pointed him out to the unaware and a bartender was repeatedly yelling, "every night! every night!", explaining to everyone who would lis­ten that this man's dancing was no anomaly, it 
30 SECOND WARNING 
2nd Annual Grace Hall Debates 
See top flight debating over various controversial issues Great fun and loads of excitement! Great opportunity for learning new opinions 
WHERE: Grace Hall Pit WHEN: 1st Debate Thursday, Oct. 29th 
Look in Observer Points of Interest for specific times and dates. 
Kevin Becker ~ 
' Editor-in-Chief 
was ritual. The man went on dancing with his shadow, however, oblivious (or at least indif­ferent) to the taunting and laughter behind him. 
In both instances, the people in a bar were faced with a problem. The first was a potential economic crisis, the second was the loneliness of a middle-aged man. In the first instance, I thought it was somewhat comforting that every­one was concerned about the stock market prob­lem but not hysterical about its ramifications. For the most part, no one in that small bar could do anything about the world's economic woes except wait and do their best to adjust. 
In the second, however, it was a bit distress­ing to see the group revel in one man's problem or quirky ritual. For as long as that man wanted to dance there were people who wanted to laugh and point and taunt as if they had never been lonely. And although no one may have felt it their duty to help that guy, few bothered to simply leave him alone. 
I guess sociologists and psychologists may claim that my observations are quite unscien­tific. There were two different bars, two differ­ent groups of people, and two totally different situations. But I find it funny that people can shrug off the big, bad problems so easily and then take joy in really sticking it to the little guy and his little problem. Or is it that the way we deal with the hig stuff is by storing it all up until we come across the guy who is worse off than we and then let it all out by laughing at his predicament in praise of the God who has made ours less difficult? 
You can learn a lot of things when sitting in a bar. 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
The Observer page 3 
-·. 
Mother of First Lady dies of stroke at 91 in Arizona 
Associated Press The White House, in a state­The First Lady's father died they made my mother," wrote York with George M. Cohan 
ment, said President Reagan in August 1982 of congestive her daughter Nancy in a tribute and Spencer Tracy -who later 
and the first lady will travel to heart failure at age 86. to her mother in 1984. "If I became a close friend. She also 
WASHINGTON -Edith Phoenix on Tuesday. Mrs. Davis, often known by could be half the woman she is, worked with Walter Huston, Davis, the mother of First Lady her nickname of "Lucky," was I'd be happy. . . . " Her Zasu Pitts, David Belasco, Nancy Reagan, died on Mon­Dr. Davis, 91, was born on the ninth and last child of Sarah daughter described her as Louis Calhern and IDla day at her home in Phoenix, July 16, 1896. Whitlock and Charles Edward having a "delicious, wicked, Nazimova, the famous actress Ariz., of "cerebral throm­Mrs. Davis has been a resi­Luckett of Petersburg, Va. Her wonderful sense of humor" and who became her daughter's bosis," the White House an­dent of Phoenix for several father worked for the Adams a "fierce loyalty to her faro­godmother. nounced. years, the White House said. Express Co., and was trans-ily." 
A cerebral thrombosis is a She had lived in Phoenix ferred to Washington, D.C., Mrs. Reagan wrote that her The young actress was blood clot in the brain, a form since 1963, where she retired where she spent her childhood. mother, a budding actress, got married briefly to Kenneth of stroke. with her husband, Loyal Davis. Throughout her life, she was her first break at age 14 when Robbins, a New Jersey busines­
Davis, the wife of the late The couple moved to the south­known for her vivacious, out-her brother Joe gave her her sman, but the union broke up Chicago neurosurgeon Loyal west when he retired as head going style and kindnesses to first job in a theater he ran. shortly after Nancy's birth, Davis, had been ailing for of the surgery department at those in need. Her career on the stage in-and the couple was later several years. Northwestern University. "Thev broke the mold after eluded appearances in New divorced. 
SMC Board announces speaker series, October events 
By MIMI TUOHY ident of Communications Con­In other business, Hashagen "Halloween" on Thursday and elude a belly flop contest, team Staff Reporter cepts, and a television said the student government Friday, Oct. 29 and 30, in Car­relays and diving for pennies. journalist for 14 years. will celebrate Halloween by roll Auditorium at 7, 9 and 11 "Life After Saint Mary's," "Ms. Gunderman is a very selling candy-grams in the p.m., Student Activities Board Young stated that the next an alumnae speaker series successful woman, and she is dining hall on Wednesday and Commissionner Halane Young Club Tuesday will feature the sponsored by student govern­very excited about returning to Thursday for fifty cents each. said. band "Shawn and the Sun ment will begin Wednesday her alma mater. It should Candy-grams will be delivered Kings" on November 10 from 
night, Smith Hashagen told the prove to be a very interesting to the dorms on Friday, Has­Freshman Class Advisor 9-11 p.m. "The first Club Tues­Saint Mary's Programming evening and a great start for hagen said. Julie Wagner said that the day was a huge success. We're Board on Monday night. the series," said Hashagen, Regina Pool Party will be held looking for a similar atten­
The featured alumna is Kath­vice president of Student Activ­The Student Activities Board Wednesday, Nov. 4, from 9 to dance at the next one," she leen Hessert Gunderman, pres-ities. is also presenting the movie 11 p.m. Scheduled activities in-said. 
Entrepreneurs take advantage of drunk driving law 
Associated Press The law is different in In­The flat fee paid by the bar tablishments in Cook, Will and About 80 Indiana businesses 
diana, which places the major covers the entire trip home "no DuPage counties last year. are paying a $39 monthly rate, 
SCHERERVILLE, Ind. -An responsibility for damages matter what," said Guardian He says more than 120 places while Illinois businesses are Illinois law is being turned into with the driver but does allow sales manager James Stanton. in that tri-county area, with the paying $50 a month because of a moneymaker by an Indiana the filing of civil action against "The customer doesn't get majority in Cook County, have the dram law. business providing take-home the last place serving the charged even if we pick him up signed up for the service. Guardian's current presi­service for those who drink. driver a drink. in Crown Point and have to take "They are under such a strict dent, former Schererville 
Illinois has a so-called dram Since 1983, the Guardian Es­him to Schaumburg." law there they have been glad policeman Trace Embry began shop law which puts the respon­cort service of Schererville has to see us," Stanton said. the service. sibility for property damage or been offering its service to bars After realizing dram shop Participating in the program "The service is for the cus­personal injury accidents and restaurants in Lake and laws put Illinois tavern owners doesn't free a business from re­tomer," Stanton said. "It's im­caused by drunken drivers on Porter counties, driving cus­at a greater legal risk than sponsibility, Stanton said. portant that they have driven the last establishment to serve tomers from the establishment their Hoosier counterparts, "But, it is another bullet in there. This is not a taxi ser­
the driver a drink. to their home. Stanton began approaching es-their un of defense." vice." 
i !!!~nttape N~~:t~~d protector I SAVE 31$1.00 $2.99 I 
3 rollS for Waterproof & Protect Your Boots!!!!!: $100 FROM THIS WINTERS 
Reg. 45 cents EACH RAIN AND SNOW 
Reg. $4.29 each 
~.=.·~=:.:.~.:=~=~==.~= Reg 59 cents EACH ·w";H:iil 
H 
111!!! 1 ; 

'' r;1...tt~ r;1...tt~ 
II ::=. ::.=. 1;
,,,,,,, .--· -· -II I ~ I
. • • ,.,_---*"-::::::
0 ~ 
:!iilNio'i''''''~''itttf'tt?''t~tt~ttt~f~;o;'; ;~~@f@Wi"'Vdft~'i'NNtmWo~;,;;~:i>tWi~illiMtif@Rf.''Mto~iillil'Mi®iMIT.#%.1.#~Wftl?}@;>r"'@;OtW..>lJ 
r 
page 4 
Film 
continued from page 1 
once a year by filmmakers who wish to use the Univer­sity as a locale in feature and made-for-television films, said Conklin, adding that few of the projects get to the script stage because of lack of funds. 
If the script is written, it must meet the approval of the University and not place Notre Dame in an "inap­propriate light," Conklin said. 
The producers of a film called "Four Friends" wanted to film scenes on the campus, Conklin said, but were declined because of ob­jections to the script. 
The University has to take 
in consideration that alumni 
and friends of Notre Dame 
are sensitive to the way 
Notre Dame is portrayed 
when approving a script, 
Conklin said. 
The script for a movie 
called "One For The Gip­
per," a remake of the 1940 
film "Knute Rockne-All 
American," was approved 
by the University, Conklin noted. The film was never made because of a lack of funding. 

The University must also consider if the filming will disrupt the educational life of Notre Dame, Conklin said. 
Conklin did not rule out the possibility of films being made on the campus, but he said past experiences make it unlikely. 
Conklin sent a letter to Karen Galvin, Director of the Indiana Film Commis­sion, explaining the Univer­sity's view about filming on campus. 
The last film made on the Notre Dame campus was a 1980 documentary on Knute Rockne narrated by actor Cliff Robertson, Conklin noted. Notre Dame also cooperated with CBS and NFL Films to produce "Wake Up The Echoes." 
Notre Dame does film documentaries through WNDU, which is owned by the University, Conklin said. WNDU is currently working on a documentary about the 100 years of Notre Dame football. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
Pole sitter gets record, engaged 
INDIANAPOLIS -An 18-year­old woman who has spent a year living in a 42-square-foot box atop an Indianapolis res­taurant has found a fiance while falling short of her finan­cial goal for the project. 
Mellissa Sanders moved into her 6-by-7 foot room, 43 feet in 
Iran 
continued from page 1 

tion from attack by Iran, which considers Kuwait an ally of Iraq in the seven-year Iran­Iraq war. 
One tanker, the Sea Isle City, was hit by an Iranian missile in Kuwaiti waters Oct. 16, wounding 18 crewmen, includ­ing the American captain. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted Interior Minister Hojatoleslam Ali Akbar Mohtashemi as ur­ging "people in every Iranian city and village to be prepared for a full-fledged war" with the United States in the gulf. 
"Since we are facing a savage enemy, we should mobilize all our resources and the air, hoping to raise $100,000 in donations and pledges. She said that she'd give 70 percent of the money raised to charity, use 10 percent for expenses and keep the rest for herself. 
She says she's raised about $5,000 to help fight cancer and has also met the man she in-
manpower to deal effective blows against" the United States, Mohtashemi, a leading radical, was quoted as telling regional governors in Tehran. 
He branded the Americans as "weak and cowardly" and declared that "any slight blow" would intensify Presi­dent Reagan's political prob­lems over the deployment of 
U.S. warships in the gulf. 
Iraq's First Deputy Prime Minister Taha Yassin Ramadan and Foreign Mini­ster Tariq Aziz wound up several hours of defense talks with Kuwaiti officials. 
In the past 11 days, there have been three Iranian mis­sile attacks on Kuwait. Kuwaiti newspapers also have blamed Iran for Saturday's bombing of tends to marry through publicity the project has produced. 
Sanders entered the room on Oct. 26, 1986, planning to break the listed world pole-sitting record of 488 days with a 505­day break from the everyday world. 
a ticket agency representing Pan American World Airways. 
State-run Kuwait Radio said the Iraqi officials discussed Tehran's "repeated aggres­sions" against Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia with the Kuwaitis. It did not elaborate. 
The Iraqis' visit followed a meeting in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia of foreign ministers of the Saudi-led Gulf Cooperation Council. Member states closed ranks with partner Kuwait against Iran, which attacked Kuwait with Chinese-made Silkworm missiles. 
China has sold Iran as many as 96 missiles under a $1 billion­a-year arms program that is complicating efforts to end the war, officials in Washington told The Associated Press. 
h~/.r..r.r.r.AY".r~..;e.cr..r..r...ccr..r.....-.....-.r.r.r.....-J".....-.r.r.r.r.....o""J"......J"'J"J"/.r.r.r....:;i 
8 

'A book that every llotre Da11e
1§ otre § ~ 
§
I 
§ 


college football dynasty with this spectacular, lavishly illustrated trib­
A WEEKEND 
ute. More than 100 photographs, dozens of first-hand reminiscences, 
I§ RETREAT EXPERIENCE I 
and a year-by-year gridiron chronicle lets every reader relive the historic 
~ GUIDED BY STUDENTS, I
I I
FACULTY & STAFF 
contests, and triumphant moments of many South Bend football legends 
§I ~ 
I 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to ~ deepen your understanding of yourself, your § values, your relationship with C_hrist, your . §S experience of Christian commumty and serv1ce. §
B
I8 
WHEN:
~ 
I 
I8 R § 
~ CONTACT: 
~ ~ 
~ SIGN UP 
~ DEADLINE: 

arne ~ 
alu11nus, every llotre Da11e fan,
ncounter ~ 
§ 

and every football fan will
§
§
§ 

treasure.''-JDHNNY LUJACK 
I §
1 1m1
COST: $15.00 

§ OFFICE OF I 
(Z\MPUS ~ MINISTRY ~ Je<>CCIOCIOOOOOOCXI'C:IO!:)OCIOCIOCOOICQOCO""~~.....-.AY"~/J".rj. 
§ 
~ 
~ 

* November 20-22, 1987 S 
~ 

January 22-24, 1988 ~ March 25-27, 1988 §
§
§
§
§ 

Campus Ministry Office ~ (Badin Hall) 239-5242 ~ 
NoYt:M"iiRI ", t4S1 I §§ 
I§ § 

Celebrate the hundredth anni­I versary of America's most beloved -from George Gipp, Knute Rockne, and the Four Horsemen, to Paul Hornung, Ara Parseghian, Joe Montana, and many others. 
"An unforgettable volume.... There are wonderful, human-interest stories." -From the Introduction by Ara Parseghian 
Available atyourlocalbookstore. $24.95 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 The Observer pageS 

These days you just have to be careful. Having an MBA is supposed to make you stand out from the crowd. But all too often it puts you right in a crowd instead. 
If you have the suspicion that too many employers are looking at you as ;'just another MBA:' you'll want to talk with General Mills Restaurants. 
\Ve're a very lean corporate entity that's making some very big waves in the food industry. We want a select few MBA's to join us next year. And we'll tell you exactly why you might want to in person. 
Come to our Presentation/Reception Alumni Rourn/Morris Inn \Vednesday, 10/28/87 7PM-9PM 
lJ GENERAL MILLS RES'D\URANTS. INC. 
RED LOBSTER, THE OLIVE GARDEN~~ 
General Mills Restaurants. Inc. 1987 Equal Opportunity Employer 


---------------------~ 

A gathering of eagles  The Observeii'Susy Hernandez  
Colonel Edward Ward, Jr. and Major David Harwood  discuss the mission of their branch with Colonel David  
of the US Air Force National Security Briefing Team  Woods and cadets William Bailey and Robert Kuehn  

Tuesday, October 27, 1987
The Observer 

Investor kills broker, self after stock loss 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -An investor who reportedly suffered heavy stock market losses shot and killed one broker and critically wounded another in their brokerage house Monday, then turned his gun on himself, police and witnesses said. 
The gunman, Arthur Kane, 53, of Miami, was dead at the scene, said Metro-Dade Police Cmdr. William Johnson. 
"We believe it was, in fact, related to losses suffered in the market during the recent downturn," Johnson said. 
A Merrill Lynch spokesman said the slain brokerage manager was Jose Argilagos, 
51. The wounded stockbroker was Lloyd Kolokoff, 39, of Miami. Both men were local vice presidents. 
Kolokoff was in critical con­dition at Baptist Hospital fol­lowing surgery to remove bul­let fragments, said hospital spokeswoman Adrianne Silver. He had a gunshot wound to the 
back and suffered injury to a 
lung and the spinal cord, she 
said. 
Johnson said it's possible 

there were no other witnesses 
to the shooting at the Merrill 
Lynch office near The Falls 
shopping center in southwest 
Dade County. 
"I think they went into an of­

fice to talk and I think everyone 
who was in there was shot," he 
said. 
Aaron Perry, a broker with 

Profile Investments, said 
friends at Merrill Lynch told 
him Kane was a longtime cus­
tomer who had received a mar­
gin call because of last week's 
decline. 
People who buy stock on margin use money borrowed from a brokerage to cover up to half the cost of securities. If the value of a stock falls, a brokerage . issues what is known as "a margin call," as­king the client to put up more assets to cover the falling value of the stock. 
of Notre Dame. 
·Art/Architecture 
• 
Business/Economics t!J 

• 
Engineering ~ 

• 
Human/Health Services 

• 
Journalism/Communications 

• 
VisuaVPerforming Arts ·Politics 


All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 9-week internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring and summer semesters. 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
LIP, 725 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, MA 02215 ( 617) 353-9888 
NAME _________________________ ADDRESS___________________ CITY___________.JJTATE_ZIP__ 
[_JArvArch 0Bus!Econ. 0Engineering DHum.IHcalth Serv. [JJoum./Comm. 0Vis./Perf. Ar1s 0 Politics 00xford 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Meet a Medill Representative at the Notre Dame MBA Mini-Forum on Thursday, October 29, 1 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES EXPANDED PHYSICIAN HOURS 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
open at 8:00 AM 
available during the lunch hour on duty from 5:00 pm-8:00 pm 
r 
jl 
), 
\ 
\'. 
~~ 
r 
I I I 
:l 
'II, 
'! 
page 6 
Stock 
continued from page 1 
ued at a heavy pace. A total of 
308.82 million shares changed hands, which made Monday the sixth busiest session on record. 
The New York and American stock exchanges, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade and the Midwest Stock Exchange announced they would close two hours early throughout the week, a policy begun late last week to cope with the heavy trading volume. 
There was violence Monday when a Florida investor who reportedly suffered heavy losses in the market killed one broker and critically wounded another in their Miami brokerage office. 
The market's decline is 
proving a blow for small com­
panies that need to raise money 
for expansion and job creation, 
analysts said. 
Nervous investors have been 
pulling their money out of 
small companies and putting it 
into bigger ones, which they ap­
parently believe are more sta­
ble in a time of trouble. 
Some privately held compan­
ies have already delayed plans 
to go public because of the de­
pressed price their shares 
would be likely to fetch, and 
small public companies may be 
holding off on issues of extra 
stock. 
"Today seemed to be a par­
ticularly devastating day for 
the over-the-counter market, 
and the over-the-counter mar­
ket is where most young com­
panies start out their lives," 
said Harry Miller, portfolio 
manager for Johnson, Lane, 
Space, Smith & Co. in Atlanta. 
The NASDAQ composite in­
dex of over-the-counter stocks 
fell 9 percent, or 29.55 points to 
298.90. Since Oct. 13, the day before the market's slide began, the OTC index has fallen 
31.3 percent, or a bit more than the 28.5 percent decline by the Dow industrials. 

----------------------------------------r-----~~---------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 The Observer page 7 
Professor casts doubt on dinosaur extinction date 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -A Purdue University professor says he has evidence that crea­tures thought to have become extinct 65 million years ago ac­tually lived hundreds of thousands of years past that time. 
The findings by William Zinsmeister were presented Monday at the annual Geologi­cal Society of America confer­ence in Phoenix, Ariz. 

He said the findings may cast doubt on a prominent theory of how dinosaurs became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous Period. The theory holds that a giant asteroid hit the earth and kicked up enough dust to block sunlight, thus killing plants and, eventually, the dinosaurs. 
During a December 1986 re­search expedition to Seymour Island, about 30 miles north of the northeastern tip of An­tarctica, Zinsmeister collected about six fossils of ammonites ancestors of the pearly nautilus that lived past the Cretaceous Period. The fossils were found in a layer of rock that proves they lived past that period, he said. 
"The evidence shows that the theory of a giant rock hitting the earth and causing catastrophe is not as cut and dried as people thought," said Zinsmeister, an associate pro­fessor of geology. 
He predicted the evidence and conclusions would create controversy in the scientific community. 
It will not be the first time Zinsmeister has captured the attention of researchers. His research over the past five years has helped explain the theory of continental drift, species development and climate changes during the late Cretaceous Period, according to Donald Levandowski, head of the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences at Purdue. 
Herbert Howe, an associate professor of geology at Purdue, said Zinsmeister's most recent findings are important evidence that will help explain the extinction of the dinosaurs. 
"The more evidence you can find to show that creatures sur­vived the Cretaceous Period, the more difficult it will be to prove that an asteroid caused worldwide extinction," Howe said. 
Pregnant addict denied baby she sold for cocaine 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Authorities started paperwork Monday to deny a pregnant drug addict custody of her two babies, one day after she looked through a glass partition and identified a 22-month-old boy as the child she traded for $50 worth of cocaine. 
"The child pointed at her. A child knows its mother, strange as circumstances might be, tragic as circumstances might be," police youth division in­vestigator Frank Giunta said Monday, describing the brief reunion between Lou Ann Powell and her son, Anthony. 
"Even though she's an ad­mitted addict, a mother is a mother," he said. "She had tears in her eyes, she looked at the kid and asked if she could get a little closer." 

Anthony has been in foster care since he was found aban­doned outside a day labor agency June 16 and turned over to the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services, said agency spokesman Dave Schneidman. 
Police, not realizing Anthony had been found and placed with foster parents by the Family Services agency, had been looking for him since they ar­rested Powell on an outstand­ing prostitution warrant July 23. 
Powell, 26, was well known to case workers from Family 
Overseas Development Network 
Tonight at 
7:00 p.m. at the esc 
Special Guest Speaker Michael Garvey to speak on experiences in El Salvador & his establishment of The Catholic Worker House in South Bend. 
LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. FREE 
~ TOPPINGS 
YOUR CHOICE OF TOPPINGS AT THE CHEESE PIZZA PRICE 
-CALL  AHEAD  FOR  FAST  PICKUP  OR  
DEL/VERY­ 
283-2391  
CLIP AND SAVE  CLIP AND SAVE  

~-----------------------­
SAVE UP TO I 
I
$4.00 
I 1-1 0" PIZZA WITH I TOPPINGS OF YOOR : 
CHOICE I 
FOR $4.50 : 
THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO: 
-WE DELNER FREE-I
I 

SAVE UP TO 
$5.50 

1-14" PIZZA WITH TOPPINGS OF YOOR 
CHOICE 
FOR $6.50 

THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA CO. 
-WE DELIVER FREE­
COUPON MUST BE PRESENTEDI COUPON MUST BE PRESENTED 
FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID  I  FOR DISCOUNT. NOT VALID  
WITH ANY OTHER OFFER.  I  WITH ANY OTHER OFFER.  
EXPIRES AFTER 11-3-87  :  EXPIRES AFTER 11-3-87  

Services because of past reports of neglect involving An­thony and his 9-month-old bro­ther, Joseph, Schneidman said. 
"Naturally, the first question we asked when she's arrested is, 'Where's Anthony?"' said Schneidman. "And she comes out with this business of using him as collateral for a $50 coke buy." 
"She talked about making 150 deals with this guy and fal­ling behind, then offering the kid as collateral," said Giunta. "She apparently planned to redeem him when she got some money, kind of like when you take a promissory note from the bank." 
The dealer who Powell said took Anthony as payment is serving time on an unrelated drug conviction and police are trying to get permission to in­terview him, he said. 

The Observer I Susy Hernandez
Su-su-studio 

Architecture students Steve Dolan, Julie Polletta, Nick Mehl, and Michael Hayes do some constructive work 
in a sophomore studio class Monday. 
Attention all ND and SMC Students 
You are cordially invited to 
YOGI'S YOGURT 


On Wednesday Night Oct. 28, 1987 9:30-1 I :30 pm All purchases 1 I 2 price 
PARTY! Yogi:~..-urt 
One Vrrle TostE' IS 411 •r Tu/-(f'} 
1791 I Slate Rd. 2:5 (across from Martin's 
2 minutes from campus) 

Police raid arrests 99, party hosts charged 
Associated Press 
LEBANON, Ind. -A weekend police raid resulted in the ar­rests of 99 people, including many who are under the legal drinking age, for alcohol­related offenses. 
The arrests late Saturday and early Sunday at the party near Zionsville involved people ages 13 to 37, including 77 juveniles from Boone, Marion, Hamilton, Hendricks, Hancock and Johnson counties, police said 
'·We want to send a loud mes­sage to these people: if they want to have under-age drink­ing parties, be prepared to have uninvited guests," Boone County Sheriff Judith Hudson said Sunday.
Thirteen kegs of beer were seized by authorities in the raid, including 10 empty ones. Sheriff's authorities said the party was so well-organized a concession stand was set up to sell hot dogs to accompany the estimated 210 gallons of beer. 

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
ND faculty, researchers receive over $1 mUiion for various programs 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,218,287 in grants during September for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $959,913, includ­ing: 
-$172,346 from the U.S. Geological Survey for research on characterizing fracture geometry by Stephen Silliman, instructor in civil engineering, and William Gray, chairman and professor of civil engineer­ing. 
-$160,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for research by Terry Brogan, adjunct assis­tant professor in the freshman writing program, and Roger Skurski, director of the Center for the Study of Contemporary Society and professor of eco­

,' 
l nomics, for research on the 
f Princeton Encyclope­dia-Poetry and Poetics, Third Revised Edition. 
tl,,. 
-$134,782 from the National M Institutes of Health for re­~ I search by Paul Grimstad, as­i sociate professor of biological·I''I. sciences, on the ecology of vec­
'' 
tors of Jamestown Canyon virus. 
-$111,116 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Michael Fennewald, assistant professor of biologi­cal science, on inhibitors of site-specific recombination. 

-$107,705 from the National Institutes of Health for re• search by Malcolm Fraser Jr., assistant professor of biologi­cal sciences, on transposon mediated mutagenesis of NP viruses. 
-$69,100 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Huseh-Chia Chang, professor fo chemical engi­neering, on the application of nonlinear techniques to control fluid dynamics. 
-$40,217 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Energy for research on the effects of radiations by Robert Schuler, director of the radiation laboratory and Zahm professor of radiation chemistry. 
-$37,274 from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for research by Charles Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biologi­cal sciences, on pathways for fine acid degradation. 
-$30,000 from the S.H. Kress Foundation for research by John Van Engen, director of the Medieval Institute and associ­ate professor of history, on the Mary Davis Collection of Ital­ian Renaissance Art. 
-$21,960 from the Whirlpool Corp. for the Whirlpool Corpo­ration Fellowship in Engineer­ing with research directed by Kwang-Tzu Yang, Hank pro­fessor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 

Further construction on the new air conditioning system for the main quad continues to progress as workers install a network of pipes. 

At Continental Bank, we're making financial history-and we're looking for people who want to help write a chapter or two. 
If you're a finance or accounting major, we invite you to attend a presentation from some of our corporate and institutional bankers about the career opportunities at Continental Bank. The presentation will be held in the Notre Dame Room at Morris Inn on Tuesday, October 27, and will begin at 7:00pm. 
Ifyou are interested, we urge you to stop by. Because when all's said and done, it's a lot more fun to write history than to read it. 
On-campus recruiting dates: November 17 and 18 . 
~ Continental Bank 
\X'c make monev work~" 
Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago 231 South LaSalle Street Chicago. Illinois 60697 
,\\ember FDIC 

.I 
Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 page 9 
Rangers learning to be all they can be 
''Rangers? Is it true you guys crawl your buddy's hurting, you better help in mud and eat bugs?" <impressed him out!'' friends and neighbors). Teamwork is essential to any close­
"All I know is that I heard grunts and working unit, and it's something that curses at four in the morning" has to be built and maintained. It (disgruntled roommate). doesn't come as a packaged option. 
"What do you have to do to join the On that first day, teamwork glim­Rovers, dear?" (polite parental inter­mered here and there. est). "Hang in there, just one more step!" 
"This is going to be good for me." "Hey, this inan needs help!" And five (personal pride with gritted teeth). heads would swivel to see what they Hell Week with the Irish Rangers. could do. But it was still very individual; it took 
Robin Squyres personal pride to finish the run, to do one more push-up, to laugh inwardly even as Sergeant X was screaming we guest column were all boneheads. Yeah-this is easy! The second day was God-prepared. 
The Irish Ranger Company, an ex­It had poured the night before, and per­tracurricular activity affiliated with fect mudholes and wallowing pits Army R.O.T.C. at the University of awaited our shining boots and starched Notre Dame, proclaims itself "one of uniforms. the most elite organizations in the free We low crawled over gravel, face world." The IRC offers a different kind down in the dirt. If someone had told of education: hands on experience in me a year ago I would be doing this I the finer points of soldiering and the would have laughed. opportunity to learn just how good you But teamwork was stronger; we went are. back for our "wiped out" buddies and 
At the beginning of each semester, dragged them along; we cheered as the Rangers stage a week long test of someone finished, high-fiving left and physical and mental endurance involv­right. This felt good! ing many hellishly creative cales­Day Three gave us the Assault thenics and practical exercises. Course from Hell, a formidable array 
Physical challenges are the most ob­of body twisting obstacles to be vious. Rising at the refreshing pre­negotiated with smoking speed: a tun­dawn hour of 3:45am for a 4:30 forma­nel, a stream, a rope bridge, barbed tion. Breathing in the bracing ethanol wire, hills, mud, a 10-foot wall, and while groping through inky blackness many other landscaped treats designed to Green Field, Ranger home. Push-ups to build confidence and team work. are the answer to the stray flicker of That day, individuality vanished. an eye -a gleeful sergeant will push "Help your buddy" took on a new you to the limit of your elbow liga­meaning because people were really ments. hurting and everyone's support was es­
Mentally, you'd better believe in sential to group morale. Teams crossed yourself (or have a very supportive the course competing for time. Just mother), because the opportunity to finishing the course was a true chal­quit is ever-present and always beckon­lenge, and smooth teamwork was es­ing. sential to success. 
Hell Week is a combination of Clawing my way up a hill by my fin­stresses: the immediate mental and gertips, I was having muscle spasms physical fatigue, and the after-effects and sucking for air. Behind me, "Keep of trying to continue in school and keep going! Let's go!" In front of me, "Here up normal appearances when every come on!" Extended agony. But an­muscle aches and craving sleep be­other impossible obstacle was behind comes an obsessive pastime. us, the adrenaline was pumping, and I 
In that first pitch-black formation, we was feeling good again. I had no idea were a jumbled combination of I could do so much before University petrified freshmen, laid-back veterans, Food Services even opened. muscled males and the occasional Every morning just as the horizon female. After the initial burst of yelling was brightening, we would stand in and push-ups, we stood silently and formation while "Motivational Music" were told about the Ranger rule: "Al­blared around us. It varied from Sousa ways help your buddy." Our com­marches to the Stones, but •it achieved mander said it again and again, "If the same basic purpose of giving us 
Doonesbury 

!'SST. 511?! t:rJN'T Y(}(j 5HUT 7J/INK 'IVll <;HOUIJ? UP, HONI3Y. LEV&!.-IJJITJ.I THIS H&'5JOHN GUY~ H£3 aJUU? GOTTI, HeAl? Be A FW£3RAL OfTH£36AM­
AG&NT.' BINO FAMIL-Y! 
\ I 
time to catch our breath and get standing there while the rest of Notre psyched for the real challenges of the Dame was asleep. day. Which, when surrounded by your The whole idea of Hell Week had been platoon all standing in the darkness, rather amusing, something to com­was amazingly easy to do. miserate with friends about. But once 
Silhouetted against the lightening I was in the middle of it, I realized it sky, the officers stood in groups of two wasn't a joke, it wasn't all chuckles and and three, walking back and forth, antics; it was proving to yourself that joking quietly among themselves. As you could take the heat and still smile Jagger wailed, one figure air guitared about it afterwards. a few lines and I could imagine the smile on his face as he felt the rally Robin Squyres is a junior in the College gathering. of Arts and Letters and is a member of 
Yeah, it was a good feeling to be the Rangers. 
between that and hostility. We had
Verbal abuse has 
close, hard-fought games against Lyons and Pasquerilla West. But those 
no place on field 
games, and even our contest against Dear Editor: our archrival Farley, were not marred 
We are writing in response to James by such unsportsmanlike behavior. We Bobb's October 13 letter. We believe it readily admit that sometimes when the unfairly represented the Breen-Phillips competition is heated, there will be un­Hall football team and we would like to friendly remarks by players of both set the record straight. teams. But when abuse comes directly 
We are assuming that James Bobb from a coach to an opposing team it is was not aware of the events that inexcusable. The referees should try to preceded the remark he overheard. curb the language on both the field and These comments were not without sidelines. provocation, although it would have B.P. regrets the unfortunate incident. been better to let the situation end No player should verbally attack an­there. other regardless of the circumstances. 
Throughout both halves of the game Breen-Phillips is dedicated to clean we heard abusive language from the play and good sportsmanship. We are Lewis players and coaches. We consid­just as guilty of "heat of the moment" ered writing a letter about the game, remarks as the next, but everyone but decided it would be unfair to gen­should keep the game in perspective eralize about a team for the actions of and remember that above all else we certain individuals. We do not believe play for fun and enjoyment. the injury to our running back was in­tentional. Collisions are inevitable Jill Adamonis when sixteen women are running on the Karen M. Marsh turf at once. Mary Beth Roveda 
We know every team is intense and Breen-Phillips wants to win, but there is a fine line Football Team Members 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in View­point. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, View­
point  Department,  Notre  Dame,  IN.  
46556  
Garry Trudeau  

Quote of the Day 
"Blessed are they who have the gift of making friends, for it is one of God's best gifts." 
Thomas Hughes 

P.O. Box Q 

Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief.. . . ... Kev1n Becker Busmess Manager .. . .. .............. Brian Murray Managmg Ed1tor . Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager . ......... David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .. ........ Chns Bednarski Advertlsmg Manager. . .. .. Melinda Chapleau News Editor . ................. J1m Riley Production Manager... . .. ........ Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Ed1tor ... Chns Murphy Pro,ects Manager. . ....Mark MclaughlinThe Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ... Denms Corngan Systems Manager ........... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of 
Accent Editor .... M1chae1 Naughton Controller... . ........ Tracy Schindele
the adm1mstration of e1ther 1nstttutton. The News ts reported as accurately and objectively as 
Saint Mary's Editor . . Sandy Cenmele Graph1c Arts Manager. .. .... Laura Stanton
poss1ble Unstgned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the ma1onty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space 
Photo Editor J1m Carroll 
IS ava1lable to all members of the school commun1ty. and the free express1on of varytng optntons on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
-~---------~-----~-~----------­
page 10 The Observer 

WORKHORSES TR 
!
l 
.t 
~ 
i~,, 



---------------------------~~----------~-------~-­
. 
·uesday. October 27, 1987 
page 11 

AMPLE TROJANS 
Photography by Mike Moran and Jo Whitfield 


Accent 
page 12 


My best friend from home just transferred to the Univer­sity of Oklahoma: "Home of the Sooners -(supposedly) America's Number One Football Team." I spent the entire week down in the land of corn as high as an elephant's eye and really enjoyed seeing state school and sorority life. 
Kathryn is a Zeta -not a "Zeta Tau" her sorority guide book emphasizes; she is one of the few, the proud, sisters of Zeta Tau Alpha. She lives in the sorority house and is now Greek through and through. 
Back in August. she went down to OU a week and a half before classes to partake in the Infamous "Rush Week." Over the phone she tried to explain the seven, four and two-day party system which makes or breaks a girl's hopes for sorority acceptance. The "parties" were like open houses which allowed members to meet rushees and vice versa so that each could decide if they wanted to choose the other. Each day, one had to limit the number of houses visited and the number of girls invited back. The picking and choos­Ing happened here. Much to her satisfaction, Kath was cho­sen by and herself chose the Zetas; she moved Into the house and thus began her life as a "Greek." 
Last week I, too, lived in the 
house and came to really un­
derstand why our dorms are 
likened to other schools' frater­
nities and sororities. I had al­
ways heard this comparison 
and had myself used it In 

describing campus life, but 
now that I have experienced 
both, I know the parallels do 
exist. 

Each of the fraternity and 
sorority houses are like one of 
our dorms. Obviously of single­
sex residence, sorority houses 
are more similar to ND dorms 
Cal\fln and Hobbes 
and a formal lounge. Men are never allowed upstairs and nei­ther is alcohol. On the other hand, fraternity men seem to have free reign of their houses. When I asked some "Phi Psi's" if they had any curfew or times women had to be out of the rooms or the building. they all laughed quite rambunctiously at my naivete. 
I was told by one of the Zeta members that approximately 30 percent of OU students are involved In the Greek system. For this third of the students, Greek life is life Itself: aca­demic as well as social. The Zetas, as well as, I believe, all sororities and fraternities, re­quire that pledges (those in­vited to join the sorority but not yet initiated) and members spend so many hours per week in "study hall." This means they must spend these hours either In the dining room proc­tored by a designated member or studying with a member who will verify it in writing. 
This seems like a good sys­tem if it encourages productive studying. but what if one does not study well in a large room with others, at a dining room table, only able to leave on the hour or half hour and with a ten-minute break at ten 'till the hour? The system appears to be a reward-based one in that if a sister has a certain GPA or receives high marks on exams, fewer hours need be spent in study hall. Thus, one then has more time to spend as one wishes. perhaps at one of the many social activites Greeks sponsor. 
"Parties" are the Greek equiv­alent of SYR's. I was a guest at one of the,se hosted by the Sigma Nus of OU: the "Snakes in the Grass Swamp Bash." At these occasions. each member or pledge invites a date and starts out the evening at din­ner. Couples then return to the 

..• 
house for drinks (no hall or 
floor bars -rather, beverages are served by individuals) and dancing. 
"Functions" are another Greek way of meeting people. If I understand these correctly, they occur when one sorority invites one fraternity to so­cialize with them or vice versa. These are the equivalents of a Badin-Grace volleyball tourna­ment or an Alumni-Farley trip to the Dunes. 
Sooner sororities and frater­nities did seem to be a part of the university but more so seemed to be in a world of their own. Their teams partici­pate in intramural sports, there are student leaders represent­ing them in student govern­ment and all certainly cheer for the Sooners. What bothered me, though, was that the societies are almost cliques. What with one needing to be selected for acceptance, and unity in many different areas, like sitting near sisters in class, being stressed so heavily, life outside the sorority or frater­nity seems to be secondary and almost nonexistent. 
My week as a greek was en­joyable and educational. All of Kathryn's sisters that I met were very amiable, they made me feel at home and I e'1]oyed being with them. I saw some appealing aspects of sorority life: a very unified group to identify with, a houseful of sisters to do things with and structured, strong traditions keeping the spirit of the sorority alive. 
I am happy though, and base my feelings on personal experi­ence, that we do not have fraternities and sororities at Notre Dame. I sensed too much tension and dislike be­tween the houses, too much emphasis on identity based upon greek association and too much isolation of the Greeks into their own world. One would be so shut off from the rest of the university ifjust in­volved with one group all the time. 
I am glad, though, that I had the chance to live the greek life because now I know why our dorm life is likened to it and is, in my eyes, better. I learned a lot last week and had a good time. Now the whole concept of fraternities and sororities is no longer "all Greek to me." 
Bill Watterson 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
Soap update 
Jack makes move, 
poisoned· Kayla faints 
}\ II My Children: Damon nconvlnced Erica to ap­prove Noelle's transfer to a mental hospital. While keeping Jeremy away, Damon told Noelle she was married to him. Nina withdrew from intimacy with Matt. Natalie caught Palmer's wrath when Wilma asked him for money as rape com­pensation. Coming: Angle and Jesse work on their problems. Another World: Vicki's condi­tion remained poor. Donna and John figured out what Reg and Peter had planned. John told Donna the tests Indicated he was the father. Coming: John hunts for the tell-tale photos. As The World Turns: Elizabeth admitted that Rod had been beaten by his fa­ther. Casey reunited with Lyla at her debut In New York and proposed again. Emily panicked upon learn­ing she was pregnant. Com­ing: Holden put on the spot. The Bold and The Beautiful: Rocco accepted a job from Ridge. Donna was relieved to find out she wasn't preg­nant though Mark was un­happy with the news. Step­hanie hired Clarke to court Kristen. After Brooke apologized to Ridge for having the wrong impression about him, he passionately kissed her. Coming: Margo becomes suspicious. Dallas: Bobby went on a rampage, forcing JR and Ray to stop him from destroying a bar full of cowboys. Bobby had an "icy'' introduction to a mysterious lady. JR pulled a classic double-cross on an old friend. Casey used JR­type tactics on Merilee Stone. Dandy piqued Cliffs Interest with tales of oil-rich land. Coming: A new backer for Sue Ellen? Days Of Our Lives: Harper poisoned Kayla, who fainted as Jack was about to make love to her. Nick found Eve's proof that Shane is her fa­ther. Eve "accidentally'' told Kim about Shane and Gabrielle. Jennifer was devastated by the sight of her catatonic mother. Com­Ing: Diana and Roman in pursuit. Falcon Crest: Richard and John each used devious means In offering Maggie help to pay off Angela. 
Emma was arrested before Lance and Dan could assist her. Vick~e confided her prgnancy and Eric's gam­bling problem to Maggie. Dina was i'1]ured in a car accident. Coming: Angela presses her demands. General Hospital: Duke and Anna, married at last. went to honeymoon In Scotland. Robert was Intrigued by Au­tumn Clayton, a friend of Herbert's. Herbert agreed to unite with Sean to recover the $12 million, then had 
secret meetings with all the Quartermaines about the money. Coming: Tony's atti­tude towards Lucy softens. Guiding Light: Josh went wild when, after learning that Marah was really his child, Reva mistakenly told him that he wasn't. Dinah resisted Alan-Michael's seduction. Johnny had Ross draw his will and left the night sensor to Roxie. Com­Ing: Sonni feels at home. Knots Landing: Abby realized the police didn't buy her recanted murder confes­sion. Paige was stunned to discover that Mack suspected her. Gary's sup­port of Abby and Olivia raised more problems with Jill. Lilimae resorted to un­usual therapy to cheer up Val. COming: Father­daughter conflict. Loving: Jim and Shana fi­nally reached an understand­ing about her return to Al­den Enterprises as president. Ann broke her engagement to Harry after catching him with Gwyn. Chris told April she had slep with Ned. Lily approached a man in a bar, but was as­saulted when she backed away. Coming: Jack com­forts Lily. One Life To Live: Judith left to help Dorian in Mendurra. Steve accepted Gabrielle's Invitation to a family reunion in Argentina. Buzz killed Frank in jail, and Wade found $750,000 in Frank's briefcase. Jamie discovered that Vlki was masquerading as a nurse to help Tina. Coming: Max tries a daring plan. Ryan's Hope: Emily broke up with Richard Rowan, who wouldn't accept it. Tension erupted when Ryan and Mark collaborated on a screenplay. Dakota's idea to set up Concetta backfired when Pat gave Augle the In­jection and Augie later died of a heart attack. Coming: Ben denies any wrongdoing. Santa Barbara: Keith fired Brick from the police force when Brick arranged a ren­dezvous for Cruz and Eden. As Hayley grew suspicious of T.J., Jake decided to act In the movie. Mason surprised Julia with a passionate kiss. While Keith scored heavy points in Cruz's murder trial, Julia and Cain found Pamela, Elena's real mother. Coming: A surprise witness. The Young & The Restless: Danny and Nina were hurt by the news of Cricket and 
Phillip's engagement. Joanna persuaded John to support Marc's project. Nikki realized that-Victoria was her only hope of staying married to Victor. The Richards decided to seek custody rights concerning Betsy. Coming: Contenders for Ash­ley's affection. 
1987, McNaught Synd. 

C 
allege life at Notre Dame 
can be classified as two­
dimensional. Everything is 

either "on-campus" or "off­
campus." Over October Break. 
however, I traveled through the 
third dimension of college life: 
the Greek system. 
Mary Berger 
Back In the High Ufe 
than are frats because they have curfew hours when men must be out of the building. In addition however, men can only be on the first floor of the Zeta house where there is a large dining room, also used as a study lounge, an informal 



Tuesday, October 27, 1987 The Observer page 13 
1"'le 0111 m ~ Deme office, located on the third ftoor of LaFortune Stu­dent c.m.r, ~claalfted ~from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtct.y. n.o..-Selnt ....,... office, located on the third ftoor of Hllgg.-Collge Center, ecc:epta daalfteda from 1~ p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday througll Frtct.y. Deedllne for next._cluslftedala 3 p.m. All clualfleda muat
Classifieds be ~. either In per.an M by mail. The cherge II 10 centa per five 
~
..-. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPifjGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8999 
Typing 237·1949 or 277-8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
................................................................ 
FS ATTENTION DOMERS There will be sn NO vistory party after the Air Force game at M1ke Brown's h6use in Colorado Springs. H you are going to be there and need directions, 
call 283-3150. 
TERRIE'S TYPING WORD PROCESS­ING, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, LETTER QUALITY PRINTER, WORD PERFECT, $1.50 SS, $1.25 OS, 287-1283 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277­7406 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST-Gold Cross and Chain-Sentimen­tal Value -Please call Doug 2327 
REWARD: MY GRANDMOTHER'S HEART-SHAPED LOCKET AND CHAIN CALL 6712 A.M. OR 233-1296 EVENINGS. 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN· TALS 272-5959 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR NOV. GAME WEEKENDS1lRADUATION. 1·219­2111·7153. 
WANTED 
WORK IN JAPAN AND TAIWAN • un· dergrada end grad• eligible lor En· gllah convttraatlon lnatnuctor poal· tiona. Long and ahort-term poaalbllltlee, Including aummera. Tuchlng experience not required; cleaaaa conducted In Engllah. Good pay. Opportunity to atudy Chlneaa or Japeneaa. Plen nowl Write: Chine­Japan Servlcea, 2505 I St., NW, Wnh· lngton, DC 20037. 
CHILDCARE needed lor our 4 yr. old and 7 yr. old. Wed. afternoons only. Must have own transportation. Call 288-3852 after 5:00. 
wanted babysitter for five month old baby two days a week tuesday and thursday 1 1 pm till 3pm ten minutes from Notre Dame call 287 9087 after 4pm 
FOR SALE 
I have 2 NAVY GA's. Already been of­fered $75 for the pair. If sbll interested. call SLUG at 3105. 
FEATHERED MASKS HOW UNIQUE SHOP AT COUNTRY HARVESTER FOR YOUR TREATS LAFORTUNE BASEMENT NOON-S P.M. 
FOR SALEII RESTAURANT,SAR NEAR CAMPUS. OWNERS SELLING AT WELL BELOW ORIGINAL COST. BUSI· NESS MAJORS, APPLY YOUR HARD EARNED EDUCATION AND OWN A BUSINESS EVERY COULEGE KID WANTS! 277-<l352 AFTERNOONS. 
POOL TABLE for sale. Good Cond, sturdy, will deliver. $80. Bar room size. Mike or Tom 272-3763 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR NAVY, BC, BAMA FOR SALE. CALL 2025 BEFORE THURSDAY MIDNIGHT OF EACH GAME. 
Stud. Tlx: NAVY, B.C. 2 pair. 1-465-0966 
TICKETS 
I need 2,4, or 6 GA's for NAVY game & 2 for ALABAMA. Phone Joe at 255-7770 and help him out. 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
$$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 
NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5218 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR USC 
CALL SHAWN AT 2235 
I NEED ALABAMA TIX CALL X3811 
NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VAZ. AT 271·0579 PAY BIG$$$ 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515! 
I HAVE NAVY GA'SI 
BEST OFFER-..£2737 
............................................... I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS, NO MATTER WHAT TI1E COST! Patrick 271-0477 
2 Navy GAs needed. Please call Jim £3278 
I NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL SHARON 284-5260 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY$$$! CALL SUE AT X4238 
Needed 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud tix call Brian 1456 
Needed 4 Navy GA's & 2 stud tix calf Brian at 1456 
HELP! DESPARATEL Y NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL SCOTT X1640 
TICKETS NEEDED Wulthy Wall St. Alum nelda Penn St. end BC tlx. Cell Matt 1-800-223-6559. 
2, 3 OR 4 GA'S NEEDED FOR ALA­BAMA GAME.. CALL BILL AT X3366 
DESPERATELY NEED 10·15 NAVY G.A.'s AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. 
I JUST WON A MILLION FROM ED MCMAHON AND NEED 5 BAMA STUD TIX. CALL MARK X3371 (PS. HAVE KEENAN REVUE TIX) 
DESPERATELY NEED ONE NAVY GA FOR BABY BROTHER. CALL JOE X1631 
NEED USC GAs CALL 2287 
HELP I I need two Navy tickets. Student or GA. £4421 
LETTERMAN WANTS YOU TO SEE HIM LIVE but only if you trade me 4 USC GA's. We have 4 Letterman tickets. Call 234-6183 or 288-8673. Don't disappoint Dave. 
I need the following tlxe NAVY-2 '3754 
A. I AM INDEPENDENTLY WEALTHY 
B. I NEED ALABAMA GA's C. DO YOU SEE POTENTIAL PROFIT D. WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS CALL RICK 1817 
FAMILY WILL EXCOMMUNICATE ME IF I DON'T GET NAVY TIXI HELP,I DON'T ST WANT TO BE AN ORPHANI CALL JOHN x3684 NOWI 
NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 
$$$$1 need 2·3 tickets for the USC game. Call 271.0122 
IF YOU'UL SELL ME 2 BC TIX FOR A REASONABLE PRICE, CAUL 283-2916. 
I NEED GAl FOR AUL HOME GAMES.272-8308 
$$$$$$ NEED NAVY TIX II stud or GA cell Karen 271.0585 
I need GA's for ALABAMA or B.C. Call Pete or Nance at 3787 or 1284. 
VVILL TRADE OR PAY$ for BC tix. call Rich 283-21 44 
FOR SALE NAVY & USC GA'S CAUL 2088 
WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then Hll me your BC GA's so my alatera, coualna, end unclu can ... the Eaglu loaelllllll Call Steve at232· 
9818. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX BC TIX 
CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES !IIIII 
**************************** **************************** 
I really, really, really need I Alabama ffcket. Student or GA will do. Call John at 283-2445. 
*****************•********** **************************** 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA's 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please cell Chris X 1489 
NEED ALABAMA and NAVY TIX x3811 
need 3 BC ga's --call Mary at £2808 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 6pm. 
YOU GOTTUM AND I WANTUM. NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS CALL CHRIS AT X1694 
MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283­1997. 
BC Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col­lege game. Please call Mike at 271.0765. 
Attention Pam 
Attention Pam 
Help I You celled to ollar me your ticket to the BOSTON COLLEGE game but I don't have your correct phone £. Ple..e, please cell Ann Marte x1387. I need It desparetely. THANK YOU. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's FOR MOM AND DAD CALL MATT x1686 
HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S CALL MATT x1686 
NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe after 6pm at 287-4561 
NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CAUL TONY x3348. 
NEED BC & ALABAMA TIX IN A BIG WAY. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE NAVY TIX (GA & STUD). CAUL JOHN AT 3451. 
HELPIIIII NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND BC. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$$$$ CALL 3510 NOWI 
Need 2 bx, stud. or GA for Navy. Mike 272-3763. 
I need 1 Navy GA or Stud. ticket. Call x4016 ask for Jerry. 
Want two BC GAs. Will buy or trade 2 Navy studs. x1 000 
HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CAUL TONY 2067 
$$$$$$$$$$ BIG BUCKS $$$$$$$$$$ I NEED UP TO 5 NAVY TIX GA'S , STUD TIX , OR A MIX CALL MIKE £1527 
2, 3 or 4 GA'S WANTED FOR ALABAMA GAME • CAUL BILL x3366 
Need 2 or 4 BC GA's. Willing to pay. Call Dave at x3200 
Need Navy student ticket. Call Kim 2615 if you can help out. 
I NEED 2 BAMA G.A.a. PLEASE CALL MARC AT 288-7105.SSSSSSS$$S$$ 
Sell me 2 BC GA's soon, or there won't be a honeymoon! Call Lawrence at 3280. 
I need two GA's for Navy and Bema. They're for my summer job boee. Help me out and I will pay top dollar. Bob 2096. 141 Stanford. 
You wsnt 2 Navy GA's? Make me an offer £4027 NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK· ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814).535-84110 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 288-4484 AFTER 5 PM. 

NEEDED: 2 NAVY GAs VINCE 271-9441 
NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS X2800. 
UNCLE DICK NEEDS 2 NAVY G.A.'S CALL CHUCK! 1877 
................................................................ 
HELPI I need a fljavy student ticket. Will pay $25.00, a bag of chips, and a case of beer. That means that I will pay you $10.00 an hour to s~ inside, be warm, eat chips, drink beers, and watch the game on T.V. ill call Maraya at 4421. 
Your parents hate you and aren't coming to the Navy game,sell me your slud or GA ticket. Rob 271-0463 
Need Alabama bckets • GA's Call Bill O'Hara 295-1900 ext.319 between 8·5pm 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEMI WILL PAY$$$! CALL SUE AT X4238 
RIDE NEEDED TO: CHAM­PAIGNVRBANA,IL OR BLOOMINGTON<NORMAL,IL OR ST. LOUIS AREA--AFTER NOON ON OCT.30 ALL GAS & FOOD PAID 
Yo Yo ... Cal Baby, Thanks for putting us up for the weekend. Pang Pang was a riot, we will bash again soon, but not with Bitter Bl Say "what's up" to Daddy-C & Timmy Cal. Is your coat clean? Pass the Scope babyll Sig Taus bless you with H-411 Love & Al­chomahal, JJB BABY 
Dlpdot (but only In the rain) 

So you'll donate filly bucks, huh? Really, I think the money can be put to better use. Besides, you catch strange diseases doing that. Things fall oN. They all used to be locker girls, you know. 
(who else?) 
Voluptuous Red-Head seeking extraordi­nary Birthday Exparience. Any sugges­tions??? Call Liz 284-4384 
OPEN HOUSE OPEN HOUSE OPEN HOUSE Dr. True's Mngmnt Class Theodore's, 1 PM, Today BE THEREIJ 

HEY JOELLEI Hope you have a great B-day. It is your B-day, right? 21 years and still looking hotllllll Love, Your spa­cial friend 
THE LEPRECHAUN IS COMING! 
WHERE IS THE LEPRECHAUN? 
Need cash fast? ... We need help selling 
fastl Help sell the single 100 YEARS a tribute to N.D. football. cell Peter x1672 or Paula x3784 NOW! 
An Ode to Amy The Twins have won and are Number £1, The Cards they choked, I'd love to croek, But now I admit, though ~ meke me sick, THE TWINS ARE NUM­BER £1111 From a Humbled Fan, Bob 
HARMAN-I<ARDON CASSETTE DECK MODEL 291 for sale. Asking $190. 2 years old, worke like a dream! Complete packaging, manuals. Call 287-8249 II In­terested. 
DON'T FORGET QUARTER BEERS EVERY WEDNESDAY AT CLUB 23, WHERE YOU DON'T ONLY GET GOOD BEER AND LIQUOR SPECIALS BUT ALSO GREAT DEALS ON MEALS MADE AFFORDABLE TO THE POOREST OF STUDENTS. 
OUT OF CONTROL THERE WIUL BE A BRIEF MEETING TONIGHT AT 8 IN THE SNrrE LOBBY 
OF O'SHAG FOR ALL THOSE INTER· ESTED IN WOilKING ON THE CF DAN· CING FEAT PROJECT. THE PROJECT IS A IIULTI-MILUON DOLLAR NATIONWIDE FUNDRAISER THAT WILL BE NATIONALLY TELEVISED. 
ANA B. COMAS The B Is for ma~ bananasllllll No longer a baby but such a babel We wish you bhe best 20th birlhdeylll Love ya, the Bedin & Howard Geng 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY RACHELIII HAVE A GREAT 1Bthlll 
TWO FREE MIAMI nCKETS 

Join us lor our Grand Opening -'< of actlvltlea at the LaFortune Banking Center of the St Joaeph Bank. 
October~1 

. Food & Relruhrnenll all Weak long . Free Grand Opening gift (while aup­piiMiut) . Grand Opening Halloween Dance at Theodora• Oct. 29, 9 pm. Bend: DM 51 $1 00 lor bell coatume. Free snacka. Free drawing lor myatery prtze. Tfckete 11'1 FREE 1nd IVIIIable at the LaFortune Banking Canter. 
. Reglater to win an all expenee paid trip lor 2 to the Nov. 28, Notre Dame vs Miami game. Free travel end 3 nlghll of deluxe ec­commodetlona provided by Trevttl­more'Aak Mr. Foater. 2 Free tickets plue $100. You can reglater now through Nov. 5, at the LaFortune Banking Center. 
HOURS Mon.-Fri ..... 101m to 7pm Seturdey..... 10em to 1pm 

To a great friend: Elizabeth Marshall.. Happy 19th B-dayl Luv,Murph,Lynard,T.B.One,"Cutie",M&M 
I need I Navy Stud. ticket-call 284-4438 
Going to U2 Nov 1? Need a ride? Take our bus! Call 284-5016 or 4357 
FOR SALE 2 TIX FOR NOV 1 U2 CONCERT IN INDY CALL SUE 284-5413 

To Nicole Heppy Birthday! We Love Youl Love,Buffy & Dani 
BCSCSCSCSCSCSCSCSCSCI HELP-I need as many stud tix as pos­sible.Piease call Kathy 284·5531. 
Jeannie, Thanks for an incredible week at that drug school in New York. I wish we could make these next few hours last four weeks, but I know things will work out, no matter how far away you are. I'll miss you tons and love you, always, 
Marty 
TICKET NEEDED FOR BC GAMEl CALL ROB AT 234-7168 
RED 300 ZX Hrr MONDAY NIGHT AT COMMONS II anyone aaw It h1ppen, pleaae cell Mere at 27HMI75. NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF GUllTV COMES FORWARD. 
Thank-you so much St. Jude 
.......................................................... 
Sorry TERRY. Our mistake if you didn't say anything. DENNIS and SEAN, We try hard -that's all. Don't kick us when we're down. BADIN FOOTBALL 
Tired of studying? Burn the books and party with THE BOTTOM LINE This Tuesday and Thunsday at CHIPS $2.50 PITCHERS TUESDAY DIME DRAFTS THURSDAY BOTTOM LINE at Chips 
THERESE, Happy (late) CHBirthday (the CH is silent) I So glad to be on PARTY PATROL with you· here's to caffeine han­govers! Lotsa fun times ahead-you, me, snd our friend the Anti-Christ. Just re­member 1) IT JUST DOESN'T COVER CORROSION and 2) Yoko Ono is a great person. By the way, what the hell IS a bar~one? Fnsd wants to know. -KAREN 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'SII CAUL MARG 3713 

L.A. WHEN OUR EYES MEET, I MELT INTO A POOL OF INSIGNIFICANCE. 
Happy B-Day to our favorite People Per­son! We hope you don't sleep thru it. Sorry to hear you turned into a ner­dosexual. 
LAST CHANCEl Limited epece remains on Notre Dame Winter Ski Breaks to Steamboat, Vall, Winter Park end Breckenridge lor live or aevttn nlghte deluxe lodging, lift tickets, mountain barbecue, ski r-and mora from only $154. Optional air and chertar bua tranaportatlon available. Hurry, cell Sunchue Toura toll lr• lor lull details and color brochure, 1· 800-321·5111 TODAY! 
HOT SALAD BAR BOY: 5 Reasons to eat In D-E room 1.ft.long hot dogs 2.nlce buns 3.taaty-looking condiments 4.cholce of feat(quickie) fare or slower full menu meal. 5.all you can eat. We've been hungry aU breek, they don't serve Hup at home with such finesse! 
HOT SALAD BAR BOY: South qued women taaJ denied. Spraed your tal­enta Ill Thanks again, St. Jude 
CONGRATULATIONS BILL WEBB I 
and Nancy too ... 

Morn amd Dad, I got my phone bill the first day beck so you won't be hearing from me unbl Thanksgiving -I can't afford long diatence relationships anymore. Send money! Love, Maura 
••• PINK FLOYD TIX ••• for sale for their concert at Indy's Hoosier Dome on Nov. 12th. Call Annette £2488 
J and K, Sorry it's taken so long, but It's not easy to talk aboul PURPLE PASSION. But maybe if you get us a couple of Bartles and Jaymes ... 
D and L 

... NEON MARENGO ALBATROSSES ... NEON MARENGO ALBATROSSES ••• DINNER DINNER DINNER ••• JUDY'S JUDY'S JUDY'S ... 7 7 7 ••• WED. WED. WED. -·George the Timid. 
TO OUR 4 DUDAGES-L,M,K,K NO DOUBT, WE MISSED YOU, BUT HAD A WICKED RAD TIME I NO "BIG CHIUL,' BUT GOT A LITTLE TWEAKED eA LOT LOPI (QUAZ.IMOTOI) SERIOUSLY­GLAD YOU'RE BACKI LOVE, CA. GIRLS 
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE IS IMMINENT! or al least mine is anyway if I don't get Navy tickets for my family call Dan at £3444 
Congratulations to the new freshmen class president--MIKE LOCASCIO-wihat a god ...... love, one of your msny admirers 
Joe lie, Happiness begins, wihen loneliness ends; Carry my fears, on waves of comfort; Timeless love, endless tnust; Yet dark lights dull, with fear of the future; Eternity can be ours, together! 
Happy 21st Birthday, I Love You, Vinny 
PHILLIP CHRISTIAN B. Thank you for a wonderful week. I had a great time. You made tubbing, steam­ing, & substance abuse possible and so much fun. Thanks again. 
ANecbonately, Reesh (your wife not the cat) 

Kevin Mayo ... I hope you had a hap­py(heaHhy?) birthday. You know, the older you are the more responsible people expect you to act. Bummer there. ·fish 
Logan Volunt-sl Hallo-n Dance Thle Friday! 
8:00 PM HI up et Logan 
Bring Your Coatumel NDSMC Council lor the Retarded 
Once again, LAURA STANTON thought she would get away without being em· barassed by a birthday personal. HAl Hope you had a fun day Oct. 24, (and not three weeks ago). Hopefully we'll celebrate number 21 in London next year. Love, Pete 
CHRIS ANDERSON ia bhe Ayatollah of Rock n' Rollah I 
Model U.N. Club memberS: remember to bring your turbans, etc. on Nov. 1 at 11 a.m. Get psyched! 
Dave is the NADSI 
Dave is coming! 
Mike: A real party lameater -and no way did she hug YOU. 
I desparately need BC Uckete. Will .-y Iota of $1 Call Becky et 277-3835. 
Donne howl Boomer! 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1987 



....,..,"4~?~.-~
~'{.,,~,~... ··.' 
~"' ~" 

lo: .. 
:-­

The Observer I David Fisher For the first time this season, Tony Rice assumed the starting position behind center (above) against Air Force Oct. 17. Rice also 
spent a lot of time In the Air Force secondary (left), as Falcon cornerback Greg Palko (41) tries to bring Rice down after a short gain. 
Rice leads 'back to basics' victory over Air Force 
tff''""{:;)''''II?''ATIE~TI'O'N'''':Sti.J:D'ENTS'~'''i"'?'''I'''',,._ 1~ st::~;i~~~O~f:fil1~~(:~2\1;s~A~d:~;~t~yt~~~B:i~ldn;~::)~f::~:t I :.:~:.~·.=["·~.:.=~==~·.=~ the Registrars Ice mtms ra ton ut mg rom8:30a.m. to 4:00p.m. Students must return both temporary I. D. cards (the plastic Vali-dine card and the paper temporary card) in order to pick up their new student I. D. cards. Thank you. ··::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~~:~:~:~~~~~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~{:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:i:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~~~~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~=~~~~~~~{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{::::··  

By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -Mter losing for the first time and losing its starting quarterback, Notre Dame went back to basics against Air Force. The result was a solid 35-14 victory. 
Tony Rice, starting his first game at quarterback in place of the injured Terry Andrysiak, directed a machine-like run­ning attack that piled up 354 yards net rushing yards, the most by an Irish squad since 1980. 
"I though he had great com­posure today," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said of Rice. "He handled the ball really well. He did a good job of doing exactly what we asked him to do." 
The Irish wasted little "time gaining the upper hand. Mter the Falcons returned Billy Hackett's opening kickoff to the Notre Dame 47, the Irish defense, with Mike Griffin leading the way, stuffed ful­lback Andy Smith on a fourth­and-one to take possession. 
Notre Dame then went 61 yards on nine consecutive run­ning plays, capped by a one­yard Rice run, to take a 7-(J lead. 
After three Air Force plays and a punt, the Irish went back to work. This time, the offense moved 57 yards in nine plays before Rice scored on a four­yard carry. A 12-yard Mark Green run and a 15-yarder by Ricky Watters, along with Notre Dame's only pass com­pletion of the day, a 10-yarder to Tim Brown, were the big plays. 
Besides keeping the attack simplified for Rice, Holtz had several reasons for limiting the passing game to only five at­tempts. 
"We felt that coming into the game we were a little bit big­ger, a little bit stronger and consequently, we wanted to try and control the football be­cause Air Force has a fine of­fensive team," he explained. "We thought if they controlled the clock, we'd have trouble stopping them." 
With that approach, the Irish controlled the ball for over 35 minutes. That enabled the defense to hold down, if not sti­fle, the Falcon wishbone. 
The defense held the ful­lbacks, Smith and Quinton Roberts, to 40 yards on 19 carries. Holtz gave the defen­sive line of Tom Gorman, Grif­fin and Bryan Flannery, who started in place of the injured Jeff Kunz and registered nine tackles, most of the credit. 
"I feel our three defensive down linemen did an excellent job," he said. "They did ex­actly what we asked them to today.'' 
While the fullbacks were con­trolled, quarterback Dee Dowis was able to break off some big plays. In the second quarter, Dowis rambled 62 yards to the Irish nine. That set up Albert Booker's four-yard touchdown run with under three minutes remaining in the quarter, cutting the Irish lead in half going into the half. 

Notre Dame quickly put to rest the Falcons' hopes of drawing any closer by scoring the first two times it had the ball in the second half. The Irish went 80 yards on nine carries after receiving the second-half kickoff. Green, Watters, Rice and Anthony Johnson ate up the yardage, with Johnson taking it over from one yard for the score. 
On the next drive, Notre Dame took over on its own 43, and again took it in on nine run­ning plays. Rice continued to impress in orchestrating the option and ripped off gains of 29 and 10 yards. Braxston Banks scored on a one-yard dive to make the score 28-7. 
Rice, who left the game with a sprained shoulder in the second quarter but returned to finish the game, said he was generally pleased with his per­formance, even if he didn't do a whole lot of throwing. 
"I felt much more comfort­able this week," Rice said. "I just want to prepare every week. It doesn't matter what the coaches want to do, as long as it works it's fine with me." 
Air Force scored again in the fourth quarter on a one-yard 
Dowis dive. The shifty quarter­back, who finished with 132 yards rushing, provided the big play again when he scampered 20 yards to the Irish 13 on a second-and-25 quarterbackdraw. 
Notre Dame sealed the con­test when Tim Brown returned a punt 74 yards for a touch­down, his third punt return for a touchdown this season. 
Brown had been held down on throughout the day. The run­dominated offense took away his receiving chances, the Air Force kicking game kept the ball away from him and the referees took away a 78-yard touchdown reception with a holding call. No one, however, could take away the punt return. 
"We had a middle return on," Brown said. "I thought they would probably kick it out of bounds again but it went high and short. I wasn't sure if I was going to have fair catch it, but I just took it and got some good blocks to open it up." 
Once again, the Irish fea­tured great balance in their running attack. Green led the way with 90 yards, the highest Notre Dame total of the year. Rice added 70 and Watters gained 62. 

OPEN 9-9 
THRU HALLOWEEN 
~Stoner~ ~FUNSTORES 
THE HALLOWEEN SPECIALISTS 
OUR NEW STORE ON 305 S. MICHIGAN ST. IS STOCKED FULL AND READY FOR ALL YOUR HALLOWEEN NEEDS! 9:00-9:00 MON.-SAT. 12·5 SUNDAY ON MICH. ST. BElWEEN WAYNE & WESTERN NEXT TO CORNUCOPIA RESTAURANT -DOWNTOWN 
"I compared Paralegal pro,vamsand chose Roosevelt' • 1.arJ1est AIIA-ap),>I'OVed Pn>JV1UIIIn ntlnols • ElrtttM: employment assistance-OYa 500 onployns h3ve hired ~It graduates • Cho~ oftime and location -.Day and nenin11 daMeS • loop • Arlington Heights • oakbrook • Divuslfied le~-.:1 curriculum-spedalize in Utigation; Corpor.~tions; Estates, Trusts and Wills; R<:al Estat<:; Employtt B<:ndits or G<:n<:ralist • UllNOJS STATE GUARANTEED STIJDENT WANS 0 RECRUrrER ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER 3 • Con12et )'1>ur plac<:ment office: for d<:tails Lisa Larabee For your copy of tbe Lawyer's Assiataat Catalocue and an Legal AssistUlt iavitatioa to the Dext information session in your area, Santa Fe Southern Pacific wrileorcaU: JU-341-3882 ---------------------------------------------------Ail no Low,or'l Auioeaat.....,_ In cooperotion wnh The Natioo.l ..:enter for Para1cpJ Training -Uaiwnily4JOS.MicllipaAw. Name ____________ Qicap>IL60605 Add=----------­••~ City ____s.... __z;p __ &me Pbonr Business Phonr  

Tuesday, October 27, 1987 The Observer page 15 
yardline. The Trojans wouldn't 
come any closer until, with just 
usc 
continued from page 20 
ball a grand total of one time 
-a 19-yard screen to Watters. 
"I thought our offensive line really performed excellently in the first half," Holtz said. "I thought our whole football team did. You can point out the offensive line." I thought Ricky Watters ran well, Mark Green, Banks, Johnson, Taylor all did as well." 
Gradel added another field 
goal from 32 yards, and the 
Irish were up at halftime, 20-7. 
"To tell you how much I know about this game, the one thing I preached to them was we had to set the momentum right at the start or we would be in trou­ble," Holtz shook his head, smiled and said. "You had to make things happen right off the bat. That shows you how much I know." 
The second half featured an­other Irish touchdown drive of 42 yards. This time Green took it in form 11 yards. How many passes did Rice attempt on this drive? Zip, nada, not once. 
But what the second half really featured was Bolcar and his defensive teammates. A Bolcar interception set up Green's score, and he recovered a Steve Webster fumble at the Irish eight 
50 seconds remaining in the 
game, Scott Lockwood carried 
it in from five yards. 
Afterward, Smith said that 
the Trojan's early success may 
have hurt them in addition to 
the Irish defensive efforts. 
"I'm going to tell you what, it takes the edge off," Smith said. "It was a well executed drive -bang, bang, bang we were in the endzone. Things ap­pear easy right away. I can't say that's the reason for the game Had we been able to stop them, come back, score again and get our own offense going a little better, it would have helped. 
"They did a good job getting off blocks. It wasn't that we were missing people. They were just more tenacious." 
IRISH ITEMS-The confusion caused by Brown's second­quarter catch was caused by a referee's inadvertant whistle. Brown made the catch of a Kent Graham pass despite an interference penalty and then appeared to run for several more yards. The referee blew his whistle and ruled Brown had stepped out of bounds. Replays showed the error, and the clock continued to run... Rice suffered a slight concusion needed 14 stitches in his chin after being knocked out of the game 
s.tunlay"a Geme rushing yards in the last two Southam Cali· 7 o 0 8 
0 

15 games as in the previous four
fomia 

Run
Notre Dame 3 17 6 0 ° 26 (705 to 710). Scoring continued from page 20 
"I thought his decision­
USC -Jackson 9-yd pass from Peete (Rodriguez 

kick) big gains through the middle making was very good," said ND -Gradel 26-yd FG 
all afternoon. Irish head coach Lou Holtz of
ND -Rice 26-yd run (Gradel kick) ND -Brown 5-yd run (Gradel kick) "Our biggest concern on the his young quarterback. "(But) ND • Gradel 32-yd FG 
sideline was that we weren't in all honesty, other than a
ND -Green 11-yd run (run failed) USC -Lockwood 5-yd run (Tanner pass trom tackling the dives," said first­blocking scheme or two, we Peete) 
year Trojan head coach Larry have not changed our offense. usc NO Smith. "The quarterback got This is the same offense we had 
First downs 22 28 

out there a couple times and I last year. We've just accen­
Rushing attempts 30 68 Net Yards Rushing 91 351 think that loosened us up, so tuated what the quarterback
Net Yards Passing 275 88 

everybody started running at can do."
Passes comp-attempted 0 23-45 7-12 Had intercepted 1 1 the quarterback and nobody The Irish repeated their first 
Total Net Yards 366 439 

was tackling the fullback dives. touchdown drive with a 90­
Fumbles-lost 2-1 2-1 
Pena~ies-yards 

4-30 3-20 "Against an option football yard, four-minute campaign
Punts-average 5-27.6 3-34.3 

team you have to stop the dive, late in the second quarter, en­lndlvlduel Leedere the quarterback and the pitch. ding with a Tim Brown five­
RUSHING -Southam California: Webster 20-70; 

I don't think we stopped any of yard touchdown run.
Ho~ 7-23; Lockwood 1-5; Peete 2-(-7); Notre Dame: Green 13-73; Watters 16-64; Banks 11·59; Rice 9-those." Despite taking a mere two­56; Brown 5-41 ; 
With Rice, in only his second and-a-half minutes to jump
PASSING • Southam Califomia: Peete 23-45­1 ,275; Notre Dame: Rice 3-7-1 ,47; K. Graham 4-5-start and sixth appearance in ahead 7-0 on a Rodney Peete 0.41; 
a Notre Dame football uniform, touchdown pass, Southern
RECEIVING· Southam Ca!Homia: Allholter8-102; Tanner 3-37; Jackson 3-35; Notre Dame: 8(own 4-directing the offense, the Irish Cal's offense seemed to come 
46; Watters 2-40; BrOOks 1-2; 

have gained nearly as many to a grinding halt for the
Attendance -59.075 

remainder of the game. You ·--0 can't score when you're not on ·" the field, and the slow-paced, 
but effective, Notre Dame run­ning attack kept Peete and Company on the sidelines. 
"We couldn't get on the field," said Smith. "They had two long drives that kept our offense off the field, and our of­fense just lost synch and went cold. I think the root of the whole thing was that we couldn't stop them and get the ball back." 
The Irish continued their run­ning success in the second half, using a balanced attack of fresh runners to run up the field, not the score, in the second half. 
"It's a long game and you don't want to use just one horse," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "You try to do what the Pony Express did -you don't use just one horse all the way." 
The Obeelver I Jo Whitfield Junior Mark Green's 11-yard Irish center Chuck Lanza (51) shows why playing In the trenches touchdown run in the third Is not all that glamourous • unless, of course, CBS Ia covering the quarter provided the only Irish game. points in the second half, al­though Notre Dame controlled the ball for 19:39 of the final 30
NOTRE DAME 
minutes. 
Tonight 7:30 PM GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE 

"We weren't particularly in­
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
terested in scoring," added Holtz. "By that point we were just interested in controlling
DEATH OF A SALESMAN 
the game." Tailback Green led the Irish with 73 yards while freshman 
tailback Ricky Watters turned in his best performance this fall 
Sweatshirts 
with 64 yards. "I'm starting to be able to read the blocks better now," 
$15.00 
Limited Number Available 
said Watters, who added a 28­yard run on a pass reception to
Hurry! 
his big plays Saturday. "A lot of times in the Michigan State 
320 O'Shaughnessy 
game, I'd make a bad cut, but if I had stayed on track it would have been a big gain." 
Movie poster sale 


page16 The Observer Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
Correction 

A photo cutline in the Oc­tober 15 issue of The Obser­ver misidentified a player as Tom Rehder. The player in the photo was Tom Gorman. 
DRNCING AND DRIVING 
CAN KU A FRENDSHIR 

Themen'scroaa-countryteamalaooutrantheTro)ansthlaweekend, defeating USC In a dual meet Saturday morning. 
Browns trounce Rams, 30-17 
Associated Press third-quarter points on Charles The Vikings, who are 3-0 with White's 1-yard dive and a 27-their regular players but whose 
CLEVELAND -Safety Felix yard Mike Lansford field goal, replacements went 0-3 during Wright returned a goal-line in­but could get no closer. WEDNESDAY, terception 68 yards to set up a Los Angeles Coach John Rob­the 24-day strike, won even 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00
field goal and took a second in­inson benched Dickerson at the though Wade Wilson was inter­terception 40 yards for a touch­start of the game because of cepted five times. MORRIS CIVIC down Monday night as the the running back's complaints 
AUDITORIUM

Cleveland Browns beat the Los last week that his $680,000 an­Angeles Rams 30-17. nual salary was inadequate. ALL SEATS RESERVED $15.50 Wright's interceptions FRANCISCAN 
·TICKETS AVAILABLE AT
helped the Browns, 4-2, to a 23-7 Vikings 34, Broncos 27 
E CIVIC AUDITORIUM

\O\\OW Jesus as d
halftime lead, and Bernie BOX OFFICE,
Secular
Kosar then hit Brian Brennan MINNEAPOLIS -Darrin Nel­NIGHTWINDS (NILES
Franciscan
with a 53-yard scoring pass on son's runs of 72 and 16 yards NO NORTH VILLAGE the second play of the second set up two of D.J. dozier's three MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART)
half for what seemed to be a short rushing touchdowns Mon­For More comfortable 30-7 advantage. day night, leading the Min­Information Call: AND J.R."S 
Fred Kagel, S.F.0. (LAPORTE).
The Rams, 1-5, who played nesota Vikings to a 34-27 vic­219/233-2232most of the game with halfback tory over the Denver Broncos Eric Dickerson on the in the teams' first sidelines, ran off 10 the NFL strike 
1 
) 
I 
I I ) I 
) 
! 
I 
,I 
J 
) 
1 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
The people ofProcter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we
FINANCE can learn more about you. 

You Are Invited to Attend Date: October 27, 1987 a Presentation 
Time: 6:30p.m.
PEOPLE 
Place: Center for Continuing Education 
OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT 
Center Dining Area (Basement) 

Key Speaker: C.F. Clark (Chuck) 
Comptroller 
Foodservice & Lodging Products 
Reception to Follow 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
The Observer page 17 
Crew earns return trip to Boston 
Rowing Club coach Chris Nye knew his men's squad would be in for a tough race at the Head of the Charles. The Irish, however, repsonded with one of their strongest performances of the season. 
The men's four finished seventh in a field of 38 at one of the most prestigious events in the country. The reggata included teams from Stanford, Cal­Berkley, the University of Washington and the U.S. Merchant Marines. 
The seventh-place Irish squad consisted of coxswain Kristin Galli,. Mark Gwadz, Brian Lapps, Rich Lark and Tom Barnhorst. The men's eight, meanwhile, took 20th in the regatta. 
Only the select boats in the country are allowed to compete in the Head of the Charles, the largest single-day regatta in the world, thus making it a showcase of rowing powers. Only the top finishers are automatically invited to return, while others must request a spot. The seventh-place finish is good enough to insure the Irish of a return trip. 
"I expected them to place in the top boats," Nye said. "The goal was to place high enough to enter next year, and we did." 
The impressive showing on the East Coast coupled with earlier successes has given Nye reason for optimism. 
"The team is doing real well," he said. "It was supposed to be a rebuilding year because we graduated 10 seniors. However, the team is per­forming better than I expected." 
The club will travel to Knoxville this weekend, then will put on the annual alumni row, set for Nov. 7 before the Boston College football game. 
Members of the Boxing Club completed their or­ganized training for the Bengal Bouts with the novice tournev before fall brP.ak. 
Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 


Fights were held in seven weight classes. m the 135-pound division, Pat Kaussman won when Mike Zacchea had to withdrawal because of an injury. At 142 pounds, Shawn Wilks won a split decision over Larry Morrissey, as did Doug Biolchine at 157 pounds against Greg Branch. 
Phil Webby won a unanimous decision over Nor­man Conley in the 160-pound class, while Paul Ack­erman downed John Hilal at 167 pounds with a unan­imous decision. At 184 pounds, Mike McPeak stopped Joe McCarthy in the second round, and Hugh Wade took a split-decision victory over John Soutar at 189 pounds.
"There were some really good fights," Club Pres­ident Kevin Duggan said. "The guys are in really good shape and trained really hard." 
All of the fighters will benefit from the tourney when the Bengal Bouts get underway next spring. 
"They'll at least have one fight under their belts," Duggan said. "I think they will do well at the Ben­gals. Two or three of the guys can get to the finals. It all depends on how much time and work they put into it." 
The Rugby Club did not play over fall break, but will be in action Saturday in a home contest with Michigan State behind Stepan Center. 
The Water Polo Club ended its fall season on a positive note with a successful East Coast trip during fall break. 
The squad defeated Boston College, Boston Univer­sity and Yale before losing to highly-ranked Har­vard. Marty Watts, Tom Cashman and Steve Coffey were vital cogs in the successful trip. 
"Overall, I was quite surprised," Club President Cashman said. "The trip was a good time and we played well." 
The club finished the season with a 5-3 ledger, twice as many wins as its last campaign, and is already looking to the spring season. 
"In looking back at the season, I think we would have been nowhere without team loyalty and uni­ty," Cashman said. "We're looking forward to the spring season with the possibility of a home tour­ney." 
The Irish also handed Baylor and defense, tallying nine kills its 12th loss of the season, win­and adding 12 digs.
Break 
ning 15-6, 15-6, 6-15, 15-9. The Irish are trying to adjust Shea and Bennett took con­to the loss of sophomore Kathy 
continued from page 20 
trol in the front row while fresh­Cunningham who will be out for tered only 27 kills for the man Amy White added six digs the season after dislocating her match. and assisted on four blocks as shoulder. Cunningham was 
Notre Dame had more suc­the Irish bounced back from second on the team in kills cess against Texas A&M, win­their earlier loss to Texas. average (3.43) and digsning 15-11, 16-18, 15-2, 15-10. The eighth-ranked Lon­average (3.14).Bennett tallied 24 kills while ghorns trampled the Irish 15­Shea added 16 kills and six 13, 15-6, 15-1 on Oct. 17, the first Notre Dame will face an ag­blocks. Senior Kathy Baker match of their road trip. Shea gressive Purdue team Wednes­contributed 11 kills and 25 digs turned in a consistently strong day at 7:30 p.m. at the JACC to help the cause. performance on both offense Pit. 

addition to paying for your tuition, required books and fees. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And here is how it works! If you're selected for a Physician's Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserves. 
While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
. As an Armed Forces phy~ician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enJOY the advantages of work1ng regular ho';Jr~. You'll also see adiversity of pat1ents and have opportumt1es to use soph1st1cated medical technology. 
But ~ost im~rtant, while you're in medical school w~'ll help pay the bills. For more 1nformat1on, send 1n th1s coupon. There 1s no obligation. 
YESI leiIme how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program
r ---------,I
• can help pay my med1cal school expenses. I understand there is no obligation. 
I 
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 
9011 A CheckuptolhrM:OARMY ONAVY OAIRFORCE 
AMM pnnt -"lr'llormnort ciNt1y Wld 00fT1)1etefy 
I -o Male o Female
..... I 

Address--------------/J9..# 
City•-;::::::::;::::::::;;:::::;-;=::;::::::::;::::::;-;::::;::::::;:::::::;:=;Stm Zip I I I I I I II Phone ITIJ ITIJ I I ~Sec. Na 0IJ []]I I I I I 
NNCOO. ....,_, 

~-------------=cornoo I
"" Coy ­

I Gnlduation []] OJ 
L 
::::·-)OU-wl-unta-n-lyp-r<Wid-eWI-.11-bo-used_lof_rec-ru-rlo_ng_pu_rposes_only_.The-lmoJIIt,.:mplelertis':.bonor= .I can reopond lo your oequesl (Authority 10 USC 503 and EO 9397) 
Jets make moves 
receiver Scott Holman, centerAssociated Press Eric Coss and tackle John 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -The Thomas. Radachowsky and New York Jets cut six replace­Dykes also had previous NFL ment players Monday, includ­experience.ing four-year veteran linebacker Jay Brophy. The moves left the Jets with 
Waived along with Brophy, 49 players, putting them six who played parts of three below the roster limit set by the seasons with Miami, were de­NFL. Of the 55 players that can fensive backs George Radac­be kept, 45 can suit up for howsky and Sean Dykes. wide games. 
I 
I
·~ 

~· 
Tuesday-
I 

go cent Stroh's 
I 

LET'S TALK GRADUATE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AT 
ii..l 
12 MBA specializations ranging from Accounting to Telecommunications Management. COME SEE US: 
MBA Mini-Forum Thursday, October 29, 1987 12 Noon to 4 PM 
ASK ABOUT: 
• 
MBA with an internship option for full-time students 

• 
Part-time MBA study in Chicago and Chicago area suburbs 

• 
Other graduate business programs including MSOR, Master of Public Administration and PhD 


FOR INFORMATION: School of Business Administration ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 312/567-6973 



page 18 The Observer 
Beat-up Cards managed to win 
Associated Press 

' 
'· 
MINNEAPOLIS -Twice in
iI ~ 
three years, the St. Louis Car­dinals have had their wings clipped in the World Series. This time, they possibly shouldn't have been there. 
"If somebody had told me all the bad things that were going to happen to us this year, I'd have said we'd be lucky to get where we did," center fielder Willie McGee said following Sunday night's 4-2 loss to the Minnesota Twins in Game 7. 
"But we just kept playing as hard as we could and doing our jobs every day," McGee said. "We had a lot of adversity, but sometimes that's how you form your character. I feel that in spite of getting beat, it may even make us better." 
The team Minnesota defeated was not to be mis­taken for the team that started the year for St. Louis. 
Twins 

continued from page 20 
1986 after the Twins fired Ray Miller, who had replaced the fired Billy Gardner the previ­ous season. "I just hope I can be around a while longer to ex­
perience this some day again." 
Frank Viola, who won two World Series games, was voted Most Valuable Player in the se­ries. Gary Gaetti, the offensive and defensive leader against the Detroit Tigers in the Amer­ican League playoffs, was MVP of that series. Viola, Gaetti, Puckett, Brunansky, Kent Hrbek, Jeff Reardon and Greg Gagne all will receive votes as the season's most valu­able Twin. 
But there are some who believe that the Metrodome, the downtown bubble that holds in all that eardrum-shattering noise, was the true MVP. 
Mter all, that's where the Twins fashioned baseball's best regular-season home record, 56-25, and where they recorded six of their eight postseason victories, including all four World Series triumphs. More than 2 million fans, a club record, attended Twins games in 1987. 
Meanwhile, the Twins were 
the 29-52 on the road, the worst record ever for a first-place finisher. 
"We appreciate the fans and their support. They've been great and we love them," Kelly said. "But it's the boys on the field that get the job done, not the fans. The boys are the ones that have to perform, to pitch, to hit, to field." 
The boys on the field had a most interesting season. 
For all intents and purposes, it began Sept. 12, 1986, when the Twins named Kelly interim manager to close out a 71-91 season. During the offseason, Pohlad turned over total con­trol to Andy MacPhail, whose first official duty was persuad­ing Pohlad to hire Kelly for 1987. MacPhail, 34, is the youngest top executive in the majors; Kelly, 37, is the majors' youngest manager. 
On Dec. 16, MacPhail decided not to sign right­hander Jack Morris, the win­
ningest pitcher of the ·1980s who
} j 
had offered to sign with the Twins as a $2 million free agent. When MacPhail said, "Hit the road, Jack," he in­stantly became the least popular person in Minnesota. 
First baseman Jack Clark, whose bat provided the only legitimate power to supple­ment the Cardinals' speed for the first half of the season, sat out the last seven weeks with an injured ankle. As if that weren't enough, third baseman Terry Pendleton joined Clark on the bench for all but designated-hitter duties during the Series because of a rib-cage injury. 
"I know this team isn't one that likes to make excuses, so I won't do that," Pendleton said of St. Louis. 
"But, still, it makes you wonder. You wonder what we might have achieved without all the injuries. I guess we'll never know, and that's what makes it a little tough." 
Almost from the beginning, the Cardinals had the makings of a team that was star­crossed. 
Catcher Tony Pena suffered a broken thumb on the season's third day. Nine days later, pitcher John Tudor broke his leg. Other subsequent injuries, although less devastating, per­sisted. 

"At one point in the season, I almost hated to check with (trainer) Gene Gieselmann to see who was hurt," Manager Whitey Herzog said. 
"Fortunately, we got a lot of help from players we really hadn't counted on and that kept us from falling apart. If we hadn't, we could have been buried by July. I'd say the last half of the year, we were just holding on." 
Help for the Cardinals, who limped home from a lead of 9 V2 games they held shortly after the All-Star break to win the National League East by three games over the New York Mets, came from players who eventually wound up playing in the World Series. 
St.joe Bank, Grand Opening 
October 26-31 
.eRegister to win an all expense paid trip for two to the ND vs Miami game. 

e Grand Opening Halloween Dance at Theodore's, October 29th, 9 pm. 
e Pick up your free tickets at our office. Free gifts & food all week at the Lafortune BankingCenter. (While supplies last) 
No puKhase necessary. Void where prohibited. 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
Squash Club T-shirts are in. Members can get their shirts by contacting Allan at 3211. -The Observer 
The ski team will collect the remainder of the Christmas Trip money Thursday in the LaFortune main lobby between 7-9 p.m. Also bring a copy of your insurance. Call J.P. at 271-9082 if you have questions. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course will be held through NVA. Those interested should attend an informational meeting tomorrow in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial at 6:30 
p.m. -The Observer 
Team tennis rosters are due Friday, October 30. Contact hall commissioners for details. -The Observer 
Co-captain Chuck Lanza ofthe football team is tonight's guest on WVFI's Speaking of Sports between 10-11 p.m. Call239-6400 to talk to one of Saturday's MVPs. 
-The Observer 
.;:,pun,:s nrteis are accepted to wrmng i.')Wiuay uu vu6 u Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
St.Joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking Center in Lafortune Student Center. We're right on your way to wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed. 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­thing you need from a bank, and more: 0 Free checking for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 off your first order of checks. 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card with access to 
the CIRRUS nationwide network. 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness). 0 Free VISA Traveler Checks. 
And ofcourse we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire 
transfers. 

To open your free checking account package stop by our office in the lower level of Lafortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 
St. Joseph Bank 
Lafortune Student Center, lower level 
Monday-Friday 10 a.m. -7 p.m. 
Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 
/~
~S 0!987 St. joseph Bancorporation Member FDIC ORRUS. 

Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
The Observer page 19 
Campus 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar (Brown Bag) "Violence in Contemporary Brazilian Society: Anthropological Perspectives," by Gilberto Velho, Dept. of Anthropology, National Museum, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Room 131 Decio Hall. 
3:30p.m.: Ernest W. Thiele Lecture in Chemical Engineering "Robust Process Control," by Manfred Morari, California Institute of Technology. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
3:30p.m.: Soccer, SMC vs. Michigan State. SMC Soccer Field. 
4:30p.m. -6 p.m.: Department of Modern and Classical Languages Lecture -"The Prison Symbol in Stendhal, Dickens and Dostoevsky," by Prof. Victor Brombert, Princeton University. Room 122 Hayes Healy. Public welcome. 
6:30 p.m. -8 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series "Managing Perfectionism," by Dr. Rosemary Phelps, ND Staff Psychologist. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Last Metro," Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Continental Bank PresentationReception for all interested Accountancy and Finance students at the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
7:30p.m.: Department of American Studies and The Center of Continuing Education Faculty Seminar Series. Theme: Reflections on Philadelphia: The Constitution and the Catholic People. "Free Persons vs. Common Good," by Prof. Michael Novak, Welch Chair, Professor of American Studies. CCE Auditorium. 
7:30p.m.: Def Leppard Concert $16, JACC Arena. 8 p.m.: Informational meeting for all those interested in working on the Cystic Fibrosis Dancing Feat project. Snite Lobby of O'Shaughnessy. 
8 p.m.: Notre Dame Mrican Studies Program presents South Mrica, Biko­Stewart Film Series-"Cry The Beloved Country" Center for Social Concerns­Multi-Purpose Room. 
9: 15 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Pennies From Heaven," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Lasagna Beef Burgundy Meatloaf Baked Fish Mushroom Stroganoff Philly Steak Sandwich Monterey Muffin Melt Deli Bar 
Comics 
Bloom County 
~ COIINTY CH/11/?MfiN 
WI/ 71fORNHfJMP HeRE .• 
JrJ5TfiN ''flN&H CF 
€(}1/ITY ~ OVE!?5€€fN6 
EV~ {l(lf?/N& 1Hf5 
Tf?(}lj/JI.&f.7 17Me Of 
UIBOI?. 1?£5Tl£55Ne55... 
I ~ 

Beernuts 

HEY /11/~V! IW tJ/15 
BffAK? /
'd~ ~.­
,/, 
Y~T 1H€r<E 11/?E 11fJ5e WHO 11/{)(/(../? lfCCf/6e ME...M£.<.. Of 1He VNflfff( V6e Of 1Hf5 Mei?IIJM fOf? PI?OPII&IW/Jfl MPI7fie5.., 
/)//) Yov WIND t!P (£7'T/NG £N()()(ffl lla'£7) ~ )tx!A' r~IEN/X lrT Tiff OSL CANE ? ~ 
I NO 


WirY. ...... 
7He?e 15 !Jr/T ONe WilY 10 ~5f'ON!? W 7}(~ &IIN&6~!(S 1/NI? PH!t.I6TfNe"6 ... 
ITS EVEN TotnH /o rET T7CKET5 ret( 71£ NMG4N£! 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Tranquil 5 Horses 
10 Ancient church desk 
14 To shelter 
15 Idolize 

16 Weaving frame 17 Laugh 18 Tire type 19 Whimper 20 Gunther's "­Asia" 
22 Wise -owl 
24 Offspring 
25 -Midler 
26 Player 

28 Emerald ­
30 Hoods' guns 
32 Scratch out 
36 "The -" (O'Connor novel) 
40 Adjure 

42 Terrorist's captive 43 "Captains -" ©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved
45 Arch 

46 Minor prophet 47 Time periods 8 Rubbish 49 Milwaukee 9 Flower part 
team 10 Mountain 52 US patriot 11 Christie work 57 Chum 12 Machete 59 Puts on 13 Portent 60 Fireman's 21 Agnus ­
need 23 Wine drink 61 Iniquity 26 Having wings 63 Fiber plant 27 Pastries 65 Besides 29 Dross of a 66 Gambling metal 
town 31 Epic narrative 67 Initiate 32 -room 68 Obtains 33 Ox 69 Therefore 34 Tripping 70 Belief 35 Blunder 71 Gaelic 37 Hoodlums 
38 Stockings 

DOWN  39  Biddy  
1 S.A. Indian  41  Lessened  
2 Unique 3 Slightest 4 Deserve 5 Concern  44 Regatta member 48 Health resort 50 Poorest  53 Maxim 54 Do-noth­Ing 55 Hotbeds  57 "-Gorlot" 58 State 60 Latvian 62 Old card  
6 Plndarlc work 7 Discovers  51  Related maternally  56 Looking gnawed  as  If  game 64 Rage  

' 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mark Williams 
"[. WISII W( STIU f'I.A'Irb 910. AILEAST w£ {]X){J) SCAlP St:Wl IK.K£TS OFF THEJI: 








Sports 
Tuesday, October 27, 1987 
page 20 

Irish run away with 26-15 win over USC 
NO's line controls USC · ~~ 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN <three times, all completions). Sports Editor Our defensive backs were in different coverages which 
In just under two-and-a-half created problems. Then we minutes, Southern Cal held a regrouped and our line was 7-0 lead against Notre Dame able to put more pressure on Saturday afternoon. The them. Trojans took the opening kick­"We stayed here during the off and marched 70 yards in six off-week and worked our butts plays for the score. It was the off. We weren't going to come first time this season the Irish home and lose in front of the had allowed a score on the op­home crowd." ponent's first possession. Mter a Tony Rice intercep­
Can you say ominous? tion, the Irish held the Trojans 
The Irish couldn't and didn't on the proceding series to zero because that was the last the yards and punt in four plays. A Trojans saw of the end zone un­Ted Gradel 26-yard field goal til the game was well decided. ensued after the Irish got the With a punishing running at­ball on their own 47. All after­tack and a dogged defense, the noon, the Trojans would 
With blocks like the one by center Mike Heldt
Irish controlled the Trojans sacrifice field position and not 
(58), tailback Tony Brooks (20) and the other Irish 
and the rest of the game en give Tim Brown the chance to route to a 26-15 victory. beat them single-handedly. The Irish ran the ball an al­"I don't have a kicker who 
• most overwhelming 68 times can kick the football 40 to 45 
Irish w1n 'big on big' battle 
for an equally overwhelming yards," bristled USC head total of 351 yards -that's almost coach Larry Smith when asked By BRIAN O'GARA Going into the contest Notre come right at you, big on big,
5.2 yards a crack for you non­about the tactic. "Why should Dame averaged 212.8 yards on and let's .see what happens.' " 
Sports Writer 

math majors. I kick line-drive kicks and give the ground per game, while 
"Going into the game I really him the chance to beat me?" Notre Dame vs. Southern Southern Cal's defense was What would happen became didn't know how our team Cal. A classic college football giving up only 138.3 yards per evident in Notre Dame's third would react," Irish head coach After halting the Trojans in­rivalry embedded in tradition outing. But thanks to an over­series of the game. After a Tim Lou Holtz. "I didn't think our side Notre Dame territory and glory unlike any other. powering Irish offensive line Brown fair catch at the Irish practices were intense. Even after the kickoff, the Irish In the late 1960s and the and a well-executed option run­12-yard line, Notre Dame though we weren't in school, it began to hand out the punish­1970s, Trojan tailbacks like O.J. ning attack, anchored by soph­marched 88 yards on 12 plays,didn't all mesh in. When we m~nt. They took over at their Simpson, Mike Garrett and omore quarterback Tony Rice, 11 of which were on the ground, went out, I just didn't know. 12 and went the distance in 12-Charles White often dominated the Irish had little trouble for a touchdown and 10-7 lead. 
"They took the ball and drove play, 5: 35-long drive, culminat­the Irish en route to the Reis­marching down the field After fooling the entire USC it down the field, I just thought, ing in a 26-yard run by Rice to man Trophy. But on Saturday against the Trojans. defense by faking a hand-off to 'golly.' But you're going to be take the lead. On the drive, it was the Irish backs who ran fullback Braxston Banks, Rice in on of those types of bal­Rice went to the air once -a 14-by, and through, Southern Cal -And when the final seconds capped off the five-minute lgames, and you've got to an­yard completion to Brown. defenders. elapsed, CBS named the Notre drive by rolling around the left swer the challenge." The Irish again turned the Notre Dame used an old­Dame offensive line as the side of the line and scampering 

And the Irish answered in a Trojans away inside ND terri­fashioned, stop-us-if-you-can game's MVP. Four of the five 26 yards for the score. manner the Trojans couldn't tory and got the ball at their running attack to defeat its in­linemen, Tom Freeman, Chuck Rice's success on keepers of have liked. own 10. After 11 plays and 4:36, tersectional rival for the fifth Lanza, Tom Rehder and Byron the option (nine carries for 56 
"They came out and the Irish found paydirt again consecutive time, 26-15. In Spruell, are fifth-year seniors yards) kept the Southern Cal prepared well for us," said as Brown went in from five doing so the Irish tallied 351 net who have beat USC five years defenders off balance and al­Irish linebacker Ned Bolcar. yards. Again. Rice threw the yards rushing on 68 carries, in a row. lowed Irish fullbacks to break "The first time, we didn't ex­and were able to control the "What we were saying," said pect them to throw as much see USC, page 15 clock throughout the game. Rehder, "was 'We're going to see RUN, page 15 
) 
Twins' win 
Volleyball wins big
I I 
f

I 
completes 

; in 'friendly confines'
~ 
; 
) 
-turnaround f / By MOLLY MAHONEY After a slow start in the third 
J 
Sports Writer game that left Notre Dame 
I 
down 12-9, the Irish regainedAssociated Press 
Home sweet home. their intensity at the net withj Mter winning two of four help of Waller and Bennett. 
MINNEAPOLIS -Five years matches on the road last week, Waller was the catalyst that ago, the Minnesota Twins lost the Notre Dame volleyball lit the comeback fire, record­102 games. Three years ago, team returned to the friendly ing two blocks, one solo and one they almost left town. One year confines of the Joyce ACC Pit with Bennett, and two kills to ago, they fired their manager Saturday night to defeat Wis­put the Irish on top. 
1!j· for the second straight season. 
consin 15-3, 7-15, 15-12, 15-10. Notre Dame continued in the /: This week, they won the Mter losing to Texas and Ne­fourth game with a well­~~ World Series. 
braska and defeating Texas A balanced attack that gradually 
(. 
.f. & M and Baylor on their road found the holes in the Badger's 
"I can't even begin to
I: trip, the Irish returned home to scrappy defense that at times
describe how far this organiza­a crowd of over 600 fans to win seemed impenetrable.
tion has come," said Tom
li career victoy number 100 for The Irish took an early lead 
I
I Brunansky, one of six Twins Irish head coach Art Lambert. in the fifth game and coasted: remaining from the 60-102 club Notre Dame dominated the to thier 17th victory on theof 1982. "We were bad. Worse
I' 
first game, as the scrappy play season.
than bad. And look what we are of senior Gretchen Kraus and Impressive net play and the now. World champions."
!' the strong net play of juniors aggressive hustle of Kraus 
I 
"We've come a long way. Maureen Shea, Zanette Ben­were the key to the home vic­We've overcome a lot of adver­nett and Mary Kay Waller tory in the JACC Pit, where the sity," said Kirby Puckett, who proved to be too much for the Irish have won 17 of their last 
joined the team in 1984, when Badgers, who were slow to 18 matches. then-owner Calvin Griffith al­' start offensively. "I'm glad to see them come most sold the team to a group f The Irish continued their of­off with a win," said Lambert, that wanted to move it to fensive assualt as Shea, Ben­"We needed it after the beating Florida. Griffith finally sold nett and Waller combined reg­we took to Nebraska on the

,
the Twins to Minneapolis ister all 18 of Notre Dame's road.'' banker Carl Pohlad. .... kills in the second game. The Irish fell to 7th-ranked 
"I'm very proud of the or­The Observer I Mike Moran But Wisconsin's aggressive Nebraska 15-3, 15-1, 15-9. A lack ganization," said Manager The play of Mary Kay Waller (9) and Gretchen Kraus (5) led the Irish defensive play slowed Notre of communication on the floor Tom Kelly, hired at the end of to a four-game victory over Wisconsin Saturday night at the Joyce Dame's momentum enough to halted the offense that regis-
ACC Pit. Molly Mahoney reviews the team's action over break at allow the Badger attack to take see TWINS, page 18 right. control of the game. see BREAK, page 17 
The Observer I Mike Moran 
backs totaled 351 yards on the ground against the Trojans. 






