Accusations  U.S. sinks  
prompt U.S.  three boats  
walk-out  in Gulf  
Associate~ Press  Associated Press  
UNITED  NATIONS  -President  WASHINGTON -U.S. helicopter gun­ 
Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua accused the United States on Thursday of having no regard for justice in his country, and repeated his demand for direct peace negotiations with Wash­ington. The six-member U.S. delegation walked out of the General Assembly hall early in a harshly critical speech during which Ortega said, to hearty ap­plause: "let President Reagan recall that 'Rambo' exists only in the movies."  ships sank three Iranian patrol boats in the Persian Gulf on Thursday after an American observation helicopter was fired upon without provocation, the Pentagon said. It was the second American military engagement in the region since the United States attacked an Iranian ship laying mines on Sept. 21. Officials said no Americans were hurt in the confrontation. At least six Iranian crewmen sur­vived Thursday's assault and were  
Ortega repeatedly attacked Reagan for asking Congress to vote more aid for rebels fighting Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government, claiming the request defies a peace accord signed by the five Central American presi­dents Aug. 7. Reagan said in a speech Wednesday to the Organization of American States that he was asking for $270 million in new aid to the U.S.-backed rebels, known as Contras, to make sure the Sandinistas honor the peace plan. Democratic congressional leaders say his chances of getting the money are slim. A $100 million aid package ran out Oct. 1.  "' ;o r  ~c..:.-.: ·­ picked up from the gulf's waters by a U.S patrol boat, said Pentagon spokes­man Fred Hoffman. Three of the six were reported in serious condition, he said, adding that a search for other survivors was con­tinuing. President Reagan was informed of the incident by Lt. Gen. Colin Powell of the National Security Council staff. Powell went to the Oval Office at 3: 30 p.m. EDT to brief Reagan, said presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. He said the president would be updated on developments as warran­ted. "It appears it was an isolated inci­ 
The peace accord signed by the presi­dents of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Hon­duras, Guatemala and El Salvador was endorsed by the United Nations on Wed­nesday. It calls for an end to foreign support for rebel forces in Central America, and measures to achieve  Colorful canvas The Observei!Suzanne Poch Sophomore Michele Frlgone uses color and canvas to create a work of art. Frlgone • was putting the finishing touches on her painting for her class In basic painting In  dent," Fitzwater said. "We did not provoke the incident in any way. Our helicopters acted in self--defense be­cause they were fired upon." He said the administration would review the incident in terms of the War Powers Act, which if invoked gives  
greater democracy in the region.  the Riley Hall of Art and Design.  
see ATTACK, page 4  see ORTEGA, page 6  

T.G.I.F. 
A 20 percent chance of light showers with highs in the low 60s. A 30 percent chance of light rain tonight with lows in 
IRISH EXTRA: Pitt preview 
/VIEWPOINT: The 'Platoon' message 
low 50s. 



VOL. XXI, NO. 34 ' the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 


Falwell resigns from PTL, Bakker hopes to return 
Associated Press 
FORT MILL, S.C. -The board of the PTL ministry resigned Thursday and PTL chairman Jerry Falwell said he feared defrocked minister Jim Bakker would return, making the min­istry "the greatest scab and cancer on the face of Christi­anity in 2,000 years." 
The resignations were prompted by a court ruling Wednesday that allowed PTL's creditors and contributors to file a competing plan for reor­ganizing the ministry, which is plagued by more than $60 mil­lion in debt. 
Bakker, in a news conference at his mountaintop retreat near Gatlinburg, Tenn., said he would return to the ministry if invited to do so by its creditors. 
Bakker said he thought Falwell was resigning to avoid testify­ing under oath in bankruptcy court. 
Falwell, who has his own ministry based in Lynchburg, Va., said PTL's main television program, the "PTL club," will remain on the air at least three weeks, but the payroll at the "Heritage USA" theme park will not be paid Friday. 
"I hope the successor will pay them," he said. Falwell asked PTL's 1,200 workers to stay on, although it was not im­mediately clear who would take control. 
Falwell said members of the PTL's board were willing to fight Bakker, but unwilling to fight the courts. And he predicted Thursday that within six months, "barring a miracle of God," Bakker would resume control of the evangelical em­pire he turned over to Falwell in March amid a sex-and­money scandal. 
GTE grant


Bork opposed; Reagan won't surrender 
to assist 
Associated Press but also said it was up to Bork However, presidential Meanwhile, Democratic Sen. to decide whether to withdraw. spokesman Marlin Fitzwater George Mitchell of Maine, him­
minorities
WASHINGTON -Robert The president himself said of said later that there would be self a former federal judge, By GINA CAMARENABork's Supreme Court nomina­Bork, "He has a decision to no such meeting, that Meese declared on the Senate floor News Staff
tion was dealt an almost cer­make. I have made mine. I will had reported there was no that he would oppose Bork's tainly fatal blow Thursday as support him all the way." change in the status of the nomination if the White House An increased awareness ofopposition spread to a majority Bork went at midday to the nomination and that "our strat-· the needs for minority stu­
of the Senate. But President Justice Department to meet egy is to continue to make our pursues it to a final vote. Ac­dents at Notre Dame hasReagan said he wouldn't sur­with Attorney General Edwin case and change minds." cording to an Associated Press promted a special programrender "in the face of a lynch Meese, raising speculation the Terry Eastland, a Justice De­tabulation, based on floor designed for intended sci­mob." nomination might soon be partment spokesman said Bork speeches, written statements ence and engineeringReagan officials, giving what withdrawn. Department offi­"obviously wants to stay in the and a telephone survey, majors...The University isseemed to be conflicting sig­cials added to the speculation fight for the nomination as of Mitchell was the 51st senator committed to increasingnals, insisted the fight would by saying Meese had arranged today and the attorney general in the 100-member chamber to minority student enrollment continue to the Senate floor, no a meeting with Reagan to talk is not trying to persuade him declare he would reject con­matter how bleak the outlook, over Bork's fate. one way or the other." firmation. 
'----see FOCUS, page 5 
""Sr 

Friday, October 9, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Surrogate mother Mary Beth Whitehead will tell her side of the landmark Baby M custody case in a book to be published in the spring, according to a published report. In March, Superior Court Judge Harvey Sorkow awarded permanent custody of the baby to the Sterns and severed Mrs. Whitehead's parental rights. -Associated Press 
The AIDS virus infected a second laboratory worker after handling highly concentrated solutions of the agent, National Institutes of Health officials disclosed Thursday. NIH authorities said the unidentified worker apparently became infected when his or her hand was cut accidently during the process of concentrating the virus. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Urban Plunge registration ends today at 3 p.m. Registration packets are still available at Notre Dame from the Center for Social Concerns and from Campus Ministry (Badin Hall or library), and at Saint Mary's from the Office of Justice Education (Room 128 or 159 Madeleva Hall) and Campus Ministry (Regina Hall). For more in­formation, call Dan Keusal at 239-7943. -The Observer 
The CROP Walk deadline is today for picking up sponsor forms in the dorms and dining halls. The 10km walk will begin at 2 p.m. at St. Joseph High School on Sunday, Oct. 11. -The Observer 
Father Daniel Jenky will preside at the 12:15 p.m. mass this Sunday, which will observe the United Nations' celebration of World Food Day. Many of the 200 Notre Dame students expected to walk in the CROP Walk that afternoon will attend the mass. -The Observer 
The Multi-cultural Fall Festival today will feature the following. At 12: 15 in the ISO lounge, Professor Burrell will engage in a fireside chat on Israel. At noon, the In­ternational Students Organization will give a presentation at the Fieldhouse Mall. At 4:30p.m., there will be Irish music at the fieldhouse mall. -The Observer 
''ATasteofN ations,' 'sponsoredbytheMulti-cultural Fall Festival, will take place from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Saturday at the Stepan Center. It will include food and desserts from many countries. -The Observer 
The R.C.I.A. meeting for inquirers into the Catholic Church and for sponsors, will be held Sunday, Oct. 11, 4-5: 15 p.m. in the Campus Ministry Conference Room in Badin Hall. For information, contact Sister Pat at 239-5242. 
-The Observer 
Right to Life of SMCND will hold a general meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of Lafortune Student Center. The meeting is mandatory for all dorm representatives. The upcoming movie series will be dis­cussed. -The Observer 
The Pitt Bame will be shown in the ISO lounge Saturday evening. PIZza will be provided. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Students taking GRE's tomorrow may eat continental breakfast in North Dining Hall from 6:45 to 7:30a.m. -The Observer 
Gorbachev's reforms will be the topic of a conversa­tion with George Brinkley, Professor of Government and Internatrional Studies. The talk will be in Room 112 of the Law School at noon. -The Observer 
Enrollment for the fall semester at Notre Dame totaled 9,851, up slightly from 9,693 last year, according to a report prepared by the registrar's office. Male stu­dents totaled 6,735; female 3,116. There are 7,607 under­graduate degree-seeking students. The total of post­baccalaureate students numbered 1,991. Students enrolled in non-resident programs, principally foreign studies, to­taled 339. This is the largest enrollment in University his­tory. -The Observer 
Design Editor ............... .... Matt Breslin Design Assistant ............... Alisan Cocks Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Becky Gunderman ............................................. Tom Elliott News Editor...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Cathy stacy Copy Editor ........................ Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Viewpoint Layout .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Julie Ryan 

'he ~(USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throush Friday except duriq eum and vKation periods. 'he ot..ener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (SlS per semester) by writins 'he ot..en-H, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
'he ~ia a member of 'he Allodaled rr-. All reproduction rishts are raerved. 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Accent Layout.. ................. Michelle Dall Irish Extra Editor ................. DC Irish Extra Design ......... Stewart Garcia ND Day Editor .................... Greg Lu~as SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devme Photographer........... Suzanne McDonald 

Idolizers of 60s wear rose-colored glasses 
Almost every age except the present is a golden one. This is trite, but it's still true. 
Ronald Reagan, for instance, sees the '20's as the golden age. Calvin Coolidge was presi­dent then, a firm believer in the axiom that the best government does absolutely nothing. He presided over an America that could speak softly and carry a big stick without worrying about getting blown up by some weapon out of science fiction if it hit too hard. 
During the '70's, everybody talked about how great the '50's were. Gasoline was about as ex­pensive as water, the biggest worry was what one should wear to the hop, and nobody was embarrassed about having fins on their cars. These were the "Happy Days." But then '80's came, and the "Happy Days" on TV was up­dated from the '50's to the '60's. 
"Whatever happened to the '60's, the protest 

marches, demonstrations and all that "idealis--J~...CI£..\ 
tic" stuff many ask now, especially if they're older than 35. The hippies of two decades ago who are the now the acquisitive yuppies of today argue that the "robust dialect" of their day has been stifled. Even a handful of equally nostalgic theologians echo this sentiment by claiming that somehow dissent by itself is "integral to the dialectic process,'' essential to development of the Church. 
Even the USA Today purportedly showed that college students are "less idealistic" than they were 20 years ago in a recent article complete with graph. More directly, Washington Post journalist Colman McCarthy complained in an article on "Hesburgh Notre Dame": "Other failings include an anaemic student newspaper. The Observer, a daily, has no editorial page. Apparently, no faculty advisor has told the kids that the kicks of college journalism are had by writing editorials blasting the administration." 
A Notre Dame alumna quoted this remark, concluding, "Nothing is more unhealthy for the cultural and intellectual life of a campus than the dampening of the spirit of irreverence." 
Others have already addressed these partic­ular remarks to great detail, so I won't beat them to death. I would only like to point out that just as Reagan is still living in the '20's, so we may now have a new brand of reac­tionaries. 
Were the '60's that idealistic, or at any rate more idealistic than the '80's? 
There sure were a lot of demonstrations that looked nice and dramatic on television. But aren't some of last generation's social critics overdoing it by equating rebellion with idealism and wholesomeness? Does irreverence really amount to a healthy outlook? Would blasting the administration just for "kicks," as McCarthy suggests, really make us idealistic? 
All of this strident emphasis on the indispen­sibility of dissent by yuppies, journalists and theologians reminds me of what that great Ger-
Must have 20 U 
You will be greatly rewarded ... 

sss 
ironwood 
Call Pete at 3498 Immediately. 

wines and spirits 
Domestic and Imported wines beers liquors.
t---·------~ 
(219) 272-7144
Looking for 10
I 1
Tickets to NO I USC Game contact 

L 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635I Mike Kelly (312)565-5959 I From 9-5, M-F i 
~~~..-.~.-o~ 

---·-i;:cture:~''Eco-N"oMICSii~THis-fiME"-­
by JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH 
Tuesday, October 13, 8:00pm Washington Hall sponsored by the Student Union Board I and the Economics Department 
I 

I 

ITICKETS: $2.00 -available at The Cellar , 1Q/6 -1(}9 & 1QIJ 2 I 12:00-1:00 pm & 4:00-5:00 pm 
An undergraduate reception. sponsored by the Coiieqe Fellows Office of theICollege of Arts & Letters and the Student Union Board, will be held from .-c.-...-.~.._.~.,...t-.c..-c~M. f2_m_cJ.QaQC.lOQ.f?.f-11~ -·-___ ~~......-...-.. _, _l 
man nationalist Hegel said about war: "(It makes for) the ethical health of peoples cor­rupted by a long peace, as the blowing of the winds preserves the sea from the foulness which would be the result of a prolongued calm." 
It's almost as if today's yuppies are saying campus protest is an inherent good. For a stu­dent to be a true idealist, one must prove one's ideological manhood, become the causa sui. To devil with everybody else, society and universe, for it is all absurd anyway--thus evidently the remark that the only healthy attitude is one of irreverence. 
I take it for granted that most people, except the most hopelessly devoted disciples of Jean Paul Sartre, would say nobody seriously believes dissent by itself is an inherent good. 
Yet this is exactly what people start believing when they refuse to take off the rose-colored glasses. The student protestors of the '60's were not the oppressed masses rising in revolt. They were the privileged themselves. They were the leisure class who did not want to get drafted and wanted to establish their freedom and iden­tity. Yet I find it no coincidence that yesterday's hippies are today's career-obsessed materialists. Take away the Vietnam War and academia's almost adolescent infatuation with Sartre, and all that would be left of the '60's is what you have today: yuppies looking for "kicks." 
If we refuse to recognize this, however, and continue to gild the students of the '60's as Don Quixote's while equating the hooplas of demonstrations with idealism, then we run the risk of forgetting what idealism means altoget­her. 


Friday, October 9, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Carroll to stay open after '88, says Tyson 
By SUSY PASQUINELLI News Staff 
Carroll Hall will remain open as an undergraduate dor­mitory for men, said Father David Tyson, vice president of student affairs. 
Carroll Hall residents were notified last year that the hall would be closed to undergrad­uates after the 1988-89 school year. The hall would then reopen as a dormitory for male graduate students for the fol­lowing year. 
In a letter to Father Michael Sullivan, rector of Carroll Hall, Father Tyson said, "The Uni­versity presently plans to retain the use of Carroll Hall as a residence for undergradu­ate men after 1988-89." 
Pending a favorable recom­mendation by the Task Force on Residentiality, the Univer­



OURGUIDE10 
EBEST OF ITALY 
To enjoy the best of Italy, you need to do a little reading. Very little. Just open our menu. 
Assisting you in your tour of Italy is our able, friendly staff. They'll make you feel right at home. 
So come in to The Olive Garden 

BEST OF ITALY GROWS IN ThE 
• 6410 Grape Road, Mishawaka 
sity will make a final decision on the fate of Carroll Hall. 
The Task Force will present its report and recommen­dations to the administration on March 15, 1988. 
The University, in addition, has decided to keep Holy Cross Hall open for undergraduate men during the 1988-89 school year. As a result, the Univer­sity should be able to accomo­date all freshmen without using the study lounges. A review by the Office of Student Residence revealed that the overcrowding of freshmen in recent years has been due to the increasing num­ber of upperclass students choosing to remain on campus. 
Jamie Froman, Carroll Hall President, commented, "We'd all like to see Carroll stay open, especially for the freshmen and sophomores who will be able to remain in the dorm." 
and pick up a menu. Then sit back and watch the best of Italy unfold. 
-tk

a!!!!!~ ... 
..~ 
The OblerveoOan MecOonald 

Flenner Hall Co-President, Tom Tlsa helps out on of their way to show their aupport of the food­the dessert line during Student Government service workers Thursday. Student Government Foodservlce Appreciation Day. Students went out members even helped serve their fellow atudents. 
Dessert duty 
1.25 

3.2& 
3.2.> 

2.95' 
2.'15' 1.'15' 

-~----­

Eyes opened at SYR 
Utz, six faculty members, two

By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
rectors and five students. The

Senior Staff Reporter 
task force will have until March 15 to submit theirA task force examining the 

recommendations to Malloy.

issue of alcohol use and abuse at Notre Dame is in the "early There are also task forces stages" of collecting informa­dealing with family and tion, said Patrick utz, director residentiality, he added. of the University Counseling utz suggested that members 
of the task force attend an SYR

Center. 
after the topic kept coming up 

Members of the task force 
repeatedly in discussions.

recently attended an SYR to 
A number of the members of

"get a sense" of what a hall 
the task force "did not know

party is, utz said. 
what SYR stood for," utz said. The task force was estab-The task force will meet with lished last spring under a man-26 student leaders who will rec­date from University President ommend the best methods to Father Edward Malloy to ex-gather information, utz said. amine the issue of alcohol use The student leaders will recom­on campus and the alcohol mend where to have meetings policy, utz noted. open to students and how to utz said the task force will conduct the meetings. look at the issue from "all kinds After the meeting with stu­of levels," including student dent leaders the task force will and faculty levels. hold open meetings with stu-The task force consists of dents, he said . .----------•Store Coupon•---------•1 
II II 
4 Foot and 6 Foot
IGiant Submarine Sandwiches 1 
I I 
I Present this coupon at time of purchase and receive a I $.3.00 Discount
I I 
Please call to order in County I I 1advance 277·8694 
i 


1 M!r!{etl
SAVE I $~ 00 5901 N. Grape Road I 
I V Buyers Market Place I I • Mishawaka. IN 46545 1 
~--------------------------· 

Attention Sophomores: Sophomore Committee chairperson needed for Junior Parents Weekend. Applications available in Student Activities or the Sophomore Class Office. Due 5:00pm on October 12 in Student Activities. 

Senators Joseph Blden, Edward Kennedy, Howard Metzenbaum, and Paul Simon get to­gether prior to voting on the Judge Bork nomina­tion. All are members of the Judiciary Committee 
Japanese tanker attacked in Gulf 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -An Iranian vessel attacked a Jap­anese tanker Thursday in the Persian Gulf, wounding three crewmen and starting a fire in the engine room. 
The Tomoe &, a 9,400-ton chemical tanker flying the Panamanian flag, was hit by what the captain called a "gun­boat missile." The attack came the day after Japanese ship owners lifted a suspension that kept their tankers from operat­ing in the gulf for a week. 
Iraq reported its seventh air strike on Iranian coastal ship­ping in four days. There was no immediate confirmation from maritime executives based in the gulf, where Iran and Iraq have been at war since Sept. 19&0. 
France said its mine-hunting ships found two more mines in 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
Congress a say in whether 
American forces could remain 
in the region. The administra­
tion has refused to invoke the 
law over the Persian Gulf 
deployment. 
Fitzwater said the act is 
reviewed every time there is 
an incident and "will be after 
this incident, as well, but there 
are no preliminary judgments 
to make other than we will 
comply with the spirit of the 
resolution by giving full and 
detailed consulations to the 
Congress." 
Asked if the Iranians picked 
up from the water would be 
returned home, Fitzwater 
noted that the United States 
repatriated Iranians who were 
captured from the mine-laying 
boat. 
"I think the other incident is 
instructive of our general atti­
tude, but I just couldn't go 
beyond that," Fitzwater said. 
Correction 
The location of the mass before the dedication of the science hall at Saint Mary's was incorrectly reported. The mass will be held at the Regina Hall chapel. 

the Gulf of Oman, just south of dered their ships away from the Persian Gulf on the other the area, a major coastal side of the narrow Strait of Hor­anchorage for ships bound to muz. Iran has been blamed for and from the Persian Gulf, laying mines in both bodies of shipping sources in the United water. Arab Emirates said. A U.S.­
In response to the French operated supertanker hit a report, some companies or-mine there in Aug. 
ComP-uter Science & MIS Students 





SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
1] 
he rush of adrenaline. If you'rL' a highl~·-moti\·ated The surgL' of excite­persnn, ,m independent \\'orker, ment. Tlw tlash of and ,1n inno\·ati\'l' thinker, \'OU inspiration. Famili.u haw tlw right clwmistr!· for feelings to talmted IS profession-ACCE:\T. als at The Travl'lers. And to tlw :\o\\' make tlw right mow. promising grad uatl's who'll join 'I() The Tra\·elers' ACCE~T pro­us this vear. gr,lm. \\'lwrL' ynu'll find ,.,lriL•d 
You've disco\'ered thl'Sl' ,md ',1lu,1ble learning L'\periencl'S. feelings in your academic work. ,\ ... uppllrti\'l' hum,mL'n\·ironmL'nt Recognized them in the L'leganCl' ,md a sllph istic,11L'd ll'ch nicalonL'. of advanced technolog!·· And no\\' ,\nd \\'hl're \'llu'll find pll'nt!· nf vou can share in thL·m at The Ppportunities to help mll\'L' you Travelers, where the support is ,1lll'.1d. stronger, the environment more You'll also rL'CL'i\'l' a com­sophisticated and Hw ,1pplic,1tion" pl'titi\'L' ..,,liM\', complde benefits 

more challenging. 

As a distinguislwd Computer Science or MIS graduate, you now have a difficult deci'>ion to make about vour future. That's wlw we Cfl'<1kd ACCE~T A fast:paced, compditiw pr;lgram. Offering tech­nical and management training through ,1 di\'l'N' range of assignments leading to kev profession,1l positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS en\'iron­
ments in the financial ser\'ices industry-including 
the largest IMS shop, 1-liBM m,linfranws ,1nd ,1 
37,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. WL''\'e recently installed over 20,000 113M PCs, integrated tlw latest 4th generation languages, ,md \<.'L'' rl' de\'l'lop­ing our future leadt•rs with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer sciL•ncL', MIS or a related discipline, high academic ,Khie\'L'ment, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you havL' the right credentials for ACCENT. 
Thl' TravL•Ier~ Comp,miL·~, IIMtlmd, ('pnrwcticut Ohlin. 
AP Photo who did not support the Bork nomination. The Judiciary Committee voted against recommend­Ing Bork for the Supreme Court 9-5. 
~--..,.......-.--------~--~-----------------~­
Friday, October 9, 1987 
Robertson admits he 'sowed wild oats' 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Republican presidential can­didate Pat Robertson, in his first appearance since he ac­knowledged being legally married 10 weeks before the birth of his first child, said Thursday he sowed wild oats in his youth but Jesus had for­given him. 
The former minister and television evangelist also said he didn't think journalists covering the presidential cam­paign should be making such inquiries. 
The Wall Street Journal re­ported Tuesday that Robertson and his wife, Dede, were legally married 10 weeks before the birth of their first child, and on Thursday, the Washington Post quoted him as saying he and his wife felt married from the day they con­ceived their son. 
Robertson said he hadn't pre­viously revealed his wedding date in an effort to "protect his family," the Post reported. 
"I have never, ever, claimed 
.md L'\'l'n ,miBr-..1 PC AT to t,1ke home \\·ith !'OU. Plus gennous relocation ,1Ssist,1JKL' to our I tntford, Connecticut home oificl'. 
So, if !'OU' re ,1 bright ,md tall'nll'd com pu tl'r­orienll'd m,1jor, join The Tr,1wlers. Wlwre tlw ,Kcl•nt is on \'ou ,1nd tlw inspir.1tion shtHed b!· all. 
Meet us on Thursday, October 13th for a brief presentation on the ACCENT program. Contact your Career/Placement office for details. Or, find out more about signing up for The Travelers' interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Fridav, November 13th. Or, send vour resume to: Gail L'Heureux, The Travelers Ct;mpanies, 30-CR, CNH7, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
TheTravelersj
You're better off under the Umbrella~" 
/\n Lqu.1l Oppmtunitv Lmplon·r. 
that I was free from the normal life of a young college man," Robertson told reporters before addressing some 250 supporters at a fund-raising luncheon. 
"I have never, ever, indi­cated that in the early part of my life I didn't sow some wild oats. I sowed plenty of them." 
"But I also said that Jesus Christ came into my life, changed my life and forgave me." 
He added, "I think it is out­rageous to intrude into a man's family in the guise of jour­nalism. I think to dig back to somebody's family 33 years ago and try to resurrect some skeleton is outrageous because the skeleton isn't there." 
"I have lived and led a life with integrity. I have been a father, a husband of impec­cable quality over the years, and I think to hurt a man's fam­ily, that is over the line. " 
He implied, however, that the investigation into his back­ground might be helpful to his candidacy. 

Friday, October 9, 1987 The Observer page 5 
lnterhall FB hea\d injuries high, but not unusual 
By, COURTNEY had a bad week," said JAMIESON Whiteside. News Staff There have been 24 injuries 
since the beginning of the in­The number of interhall terhall football season three football injuries this year is weeks ago. Twelve of the in­not significantly larger then in jured were taken to the hospital years past , according to Dan and twelve were treated on the Whiteside, student coordinator spot by the Emergency Medi­for interhall football. cal Team. Whiteside said that there is not a significantly "Basically it appears we just larger number of injuries this 
*********************************** 
~ J.P.'S PIZZA ~t<--01G~~<o~_, ~ ~ FREE DELIVERY &&~&" 6r&o_, ~ 
=:: ' qQ' * 
~ 18'~ ....._* -~ ~
* Ave. Delivery Time 25-30 min. . * * *
* ~ 2-14", 4 item pizzas !* ~ w1 free x-cheese-$1 0.56 ~ ~ 2-16", 4 item pizzas ~ ~ w1 free x-cheese-$13.75 ! 
* ! Hour!:: EAL' !* 
;:: Mon-111urs11-11 WHATAD · * It Fri-Sat 11am-1am 151 !! Sun a-10 1511 Portage 234-4 * 
*********************************** 

FRESHMAN NIGHT AT THEODORE'S 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10,1987 DJ 9:00P.M. 1:00 A.M. DANCINGREFRESHMENTS $1.00 AT THE DOOR 

(DON'T FORGET A TASTE OF NATIONS TOO) 
year. It only seems as if the figure is higher because of a rash of injuries in the past week. 
He added that there have been a number head and neck injuries, along with people knocked unconscious. Whiteside said, "A significant portion of the injuries are pos­sible concussions." 
The Notre Dame senior who was knocked unconscious during a woman's interhall flag football game this week was "one of the more serious wo­man's injuries" according to Whiteside. 
He said football injuries are worse than other interhall in-grant to assist minority stu­dents who plan to major in sci­
Focus 
ence or engineering.
continued from page 1 
Hoffman said Notre Dame and to enhancing the conditions was one of 15 universities who for minority students at Notre received the FOCUS grant Dame," said Emil Hoffman, from among 108 applicants. dean of the Freshman Year of University funds along with the Studies. grant are being used to 
The GTE Foundation of promote a two-year summer Stamford, Conn. has awarded program for incoming Notre Dame 
a $30,000 FOCUS 
Notre 




DEATH OF ASALESMAN 
by Arthur Miller 
directed by Father Arthur Harvey 
Wed., Oct. 7-Sat., Oct. 1 o 8:10P.M. Sunday, October 11 3:10P.M. 
Washington Hall $6 Main floor $5 Balcony $4 Students/Senior Citizens (Wed., Thurs., Sun) 
For MasterCard/Visa orders or information: (219) 239-5957 noon-6 P.M. weekdays 
JUries because "there is the most contact. When there are 330 people playing a contact sport the laws of averages will give for more injuries based on those numbers." 
Whiteside said that when a player is injured he or she is examined immediately by the three or four EMT members or Red Cross volunteers that are at every game. Their diagnoses dictate whether or not the players are taken to the hospi­tal either by security or by am­bulance. Whiteside added, "A lot of times they are sent in an ambulance as a precaution, with head and neck injuries you can never be too careful." 
Whiteside stressed that Non­Varsity Athletics takes every precaution possible. All players are required to see a 15 minute safety film, and have physicals. Also, two weeks of practice prior to the season is suggested for the players. 
"We don't like to see this hap­pening. We take every precau­tion we can. We have top of the line equipment and no helmets have been used for longer then two years" said Whiteside. "Dr. Tom Kelly, assistant ath­letic director, and I have come to the conclusion that we will have bad and good weeks." 
Science and engineering majors who have been ac­cepted to the University, and who confirm their enrollment are invited to attend a six-week preparatory course from mid­June to July. These students are designated as GTE scholars and the funds provide them with round-trip transportation, room and board, books and tui­tion for the program. 
Hoffman said most of the 18 students invited attend the pro­gram which incorporates classes everyday, five days a week. The project is structured in two segments. One part con­sists of three courses; math, communications, and quantita­tive reasoning, which are directed toward similar fresh­men courses. Classes include an introduction to calculus, writing and the computer. 
In addition, the seminar aids students in the adjustment to college life. A course in basic learning skills is given, where students learn time manage­ment, study habits, and test taking techniques. Motiva­tional talks, fieldtrips and su­pervised study are also provid­ed. 
Hoffman, who is also the pro­gram director, said the instruc­tors who participate are selec­ted on their experience in teaching at the freshmen level and who are sympathetic to the problems of transition into col­lege. In last summer's pro­gram, instructors included Dr. Kathleen Sullivan, communi­cations; Dr. Terrence Akai, concepts of engineering ; Dr. Sandra Harmatiuk, basic learning skills; and Angie Chamblee, assistant program director. 
The project's restriction to minority students is purpose­ful. Hoffman said that tradi­tionally, minority students sel­dom pursue a science or engineering career. With this in mind the program is a tool for enhancing their success in these fields. "Nationally, as well as at Notre Dame, the number of minority students who enter science and engi­neering is very small--and the number who complete the pro­grams is very, very small," said Hoffman. 
This particular program was initiated two years ago and its continuation depends upon fun­ding. The FOCUS grant is a one-time award from GTE. When this fund is exhausted the University's development of­fice will "prepare a poposal to ­submit to another agency for endowment," said Hoffman. Seeking continued funding is extremely competitive among universities. 

Friday, October 9, 1987
page 6 The Observer 

Personals 
contmued from page 11 
Leszek Good luck this weekend 4th floor Zehmbies 
................................................................................... 
ATTENTION MUST BE PAID to Laurie Sheal Good luck tonight Lulu 
Lonely Southern Dude looking lor friendship-any girl-that Is, any girl named Allison H. II Must look Intelligent In glasses (knowledge of how to jog around the lake properly not required) reply here soon 
Quote of the day-"No, I don't think black leather mini-skirts are provocative at allr 
GIVE ME A BREAKI Or at least a ride lor one to Grand Rapids MI. Please call Cecelia 2632. 
HEY CUBI-WHEN ARE WE GOING TO AGAIN? THIS TIME I'LL BRING MY DRILL. THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A BUENO PAL. YOUR BRO K.K. 
HEY VICKI STOLARSKI, WILL YOU EVER FOR­GIVE ME FOR NOT STOPPING BY? I'M ON MY KNEES (HA,HA). GET READY FOR A WILD TIME TONIGHTI LOVE, KINDA KRAZY 
To the the girl who spij In my soup: I think I love you. Did you get the seme taste I did? II Interested, reply here 
F HEY WHITEY I F HAPPY BIRTHDAY, YOU BIG GOON. I THINK IT'S A MUST THAT WE SIT BACK WITH A STROHS AND SOME CHAW AND WATCH THE TIGERS DEMOLISH THOSE HAPLESS TWINS. THEN WE'LL HEAD OVER TO THE B K LOUNGE AND PICK UP SOME MARIGOLDS, COOL? HAVE A GREAT DAY, DORK.-HASBRO 
HEY, NEEVIE AND FLATRICKIII CAN'T WAIT TILL TONIGHTI BUFFY ANO THE KRUZER ARE DYING TO SEE ALL OF STANFORD'S BEST (wlnk)ll 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MARY O'NEILIII (You Irish goddea youl) M.C. 
FOR MOAI! INFORMATION C<*CERHIN6: 
1!. HyeJin humping the wall...
1. a..tlutllld -··· 
3. or ANNE BRODERICK'S 111TH I!III'ITHD-'Y THIS WEEKEND... CALL x4310 OR SWING BY rm. 117 Holy Croa HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT ONE, 
Annelll We love you, Debbie and Pattie 
MOLLY MEYER Here's a birthday wish As you tum 21, Drink like a flah And have lots of lunl Love, Kei,Mel,& Kel 
HELPII need a ride to Columbus, Ohio or to Athens, Ohio lor October break. WILL PAY $$$$$. call Patti 284-5528 
BcecsosceosctiOtHELP· I need as many stud tix as poaslble.Piease call Kathy 284­5531. 

Ortega 
continued from page 1 
Among Ortega's caustic comments about Reagan was:"I'm sure he hasn't even read the agreement." 
The Nicaraguan president spoke from notes, not a prepared text. Much of what he said concerned Reagan's speech to the Organization of American States, in which he urged the Sandinistas to negotiate a cease-fire with the Contras, expel all Cuban and Soviet forces, establish "full democracy" and restore freedom of the press. 
At a news conference after his speech, Ortega said La Prensa, which is Nicaragua's only opposition newspaper and has been allowed to resume publishing, might be closed again if it supports Reagan's request for more Contra aid. 
Security Beat 
Wednesday, October 7 
3:00 p.m. A Morris Inn Guest re­ported that overnight his parked car had been hit by another vehicle that was improperly parked next to him. 
5:30p.m. Notre Dame Security as­sisted the Fire Department in res­ponding to a call at the University Village. Upon arrival, they dis­covered that a small child had pulled the alarm out of curiosity. 
2:45p.m. A Dlllon Hall resident re­ported losing his wallet between LaFortune and his dorm sometime between 6:45p.m. Tuesday and 7:06 
a.m. on Wednesday. Loss is esti­mated at $29. 
Thursday, October 8 
1: 30 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported losing her Jerusalem Bible in Washington Hall around noon on 
w 
I deperately need tickets tickets, either a.A. or stu­dent to the Boston College game. I will sacrifice my first born chfldll$$$ Call Ann at 284-4372. 
··································································-··············· 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS 
LONDON (MIIy..June17) and ROME (June 12-July 11) Coui'Ma In Art, l!luec, Blo, Hlat, ltal, and Soc INFORMATIONAL MEETING October 12, 7:00 P.M. Carroll Hall at SMC Talk with THchera end Former Participant• Slide Show and F,.. Pizza For More Info. Call Prot. A.R.I!IIack, 284-4480 or 272-3728 
One Way Ticket Memphla-Cinclnatti-Southbend lor October 25 Contact Will 1784 
There's no place like homel Thera's no place like homel Helpl I need a ride home and back from Cola.,O.H., lor Oct. break Will help pay gas $. Call KIM £2697 
I'm looking lor a ride to CINCINNATI or OXFORD over !all bruk It will pay It call 234-73115 John 
SHAKING DOWN THE THUNDER WAKING UP THE ECHOES TEARING UP THE TURF ALL THE WAY TO PITT CALL AND REQUEST "100 YEARS" WVFI 239-6400 U93 239-3893 WAOR 683-15432 Z104 255-6000 
GET SET FOR ANOTHER VICTORYI 
MOVIE POSTERS Decorate your dorm rooma. Lola o!IIIIH & alzea. 277-&441. 
LEWIS WEEKI LEWIS WEEKI LEWIS WEEKI COME AND PLAY, LEWIS IS A O.K. WE HAVEN'T THOUGHT OF THE END TO OUR SONG YET I!IUT... COME AND PLAY ANYWAYIIIIIIIIIII 
$$HELPII$$ NEED 2 USC GA'S AND BAMA STUD & GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID £3592 
DEAREST KAREN (IN BIOCHEM), I HAftWATCHED YOU FOR 3 YEARS NOW AND I CAN'T REMAIN SILENT ANY LONGER. HOW MOUr A DATil 80ME1lllol' lllafiOIID MElliE. 
.UCRET ADMIRER 
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO ALL THE CUMSTEE~JS AT N.D.? 
THANKYOUII to the guy who sent flowers to Am. 17 on Sat. 100. They made my dayll 
$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$ WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$ NEED ONE 
G.A. (NOT STUDENT) FOR USC GAME. ANNE WILL PROMISE MORE SEXUAL FAVORS-FOR FREEIIIIIIIIIIIIII PLEASE CALL 284-4372 IMMEDI­ATELYII$$$$$$ 
Ride needed to Bloomington, IN FALL BREAK. call Lea. 284-4320 
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEMI WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 

GIVE AN 87 DOMER A BREAK My bro needs BC tix STtGA -Cathy 2783 
HELPI Am In desperate need of GA's lor USC gameI $$ Call Amy x4098. 
Uh ohl?l Molly Meyer Is 21 TODAY, watch out NOOMC (esp liquor stores) Make It worthwhile In Chi. Lotsa love, Mlck 
EAST LANSING-I NEED A RIDE FRI, 9 OCT MONICA £2n-8578 
"This one goes out to the one I love" HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY JMBI 
RIDE NEEDED TO: CHAMPAIGNoURBANA,IL OR BLOOMINGTON-NORMAL,I LOR ST. LOUIS AREA­
•AFTER NOON ON OCT.16 ALL GAS & FOOD PAID -CALL TONY 2149 
U2 TIX FOR SALEI 
CALL GARY ~30 
FOR SALE 
AIRPLANE TICKET TO C.A. 
Roundtrip to Oaklllnd 
Lv. Oct 1-Retum Oct 23 
$200 

Call 1121543 lllnta,..ted 
1100.00 CASH REWARD FOR THE RECOVERY OF NO CLASS RING ENGRAVED: GORE '81 -'89 CALL 3588 
I LOVE YOU, DAD 
WE ARE NO DAN 
ATTENTION 1WINS FANS: I need a ride to the Mlnneapolia-St. Paul area lor Fall Break. I can leave alter noon on Friday and I'd like to be back before the USC game. I have to make nhome to aee Kirby In the World Series. Call Kria at 1197. Go Twins// 
Jim You went her She wants you No one No one No one -Ia to bhime 
Thank-you St. Juda 
Need a ticket to NY lor bnsak? Have a round trip SBNY ticket to sell lor $140. Call 284-4640 
Need a ticket to NY lor break? Have a round trip ticket from SBNY lor sell lor $140. Call 284-4640 
GOING TO BOSTON FOR BREAK? I HAVE TICKETS: LEAVE SOUTH BEND 1CYI6 RETURN 1025 WILL SELL ONE WAY MEGAN 2578 
•• TO THE GUY BY THE PHONES IN THE BRARE LAST WED. NITE AT 10 •• That's nice you like my smile but It won't help II I don't know who you arel-So call SMC at 5485 
••••!?.!~!?!!!r.Y.~~.'!~!'!! •••• 
................................................................................... 
ND CLUB OF PITTSBURGH PEP RALLYIPARTY FRIDAY OCTOBER 9, 7:00PM SHERATON, STATION SQUIRE PITTSBURGH, PA STUDENTS: $4 BANDS, FOOD, AND MORE 
A little marching 
canputyou a step alieadof evecyother


college graduate. 
Get your career off to a fast start. Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps now. And you could graduate with both 
a college degree and an officers commission in the U.S. Army. Army ROTC is the college elective that gives 
you the confidence, leadership skills and discipline essential to any successful career, civilian or military. 
Get the experience and responsibility other graduates will have to wait years for. Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED??? Call Captain Domingo 239-6264 


China orders reporters out of Tibet for violations 
Associated Press 
CHENGDU, China -Chinese authorities Thursday ordered Western reporters out of the Tibetan capital of Lhasa, where police reinforcements prevented independence protests that have left at least 14 people dead. 
Yu Wuzhen, director of Tibet's foreign affairs office, told the reporters to leave within 48 hours for violating a little-publicized reporting regulation, according to reports reaching Chengdu. 
Yu, who called the reporters together in a hotel room in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa, said the 14 journalists from the United States, Britain, Italy, West Germany, Canada and Australia failed to apply 10 days in advance for permission to cover news there. 
Lhasa, capital of the remote Himalayan region, had been one of more than 400 cities in China where foreigners could travel without official permis­sion. 
The journalists arrived in Lhasa after violent demonstra­tions Sept. 27 and Oct. 1 that were led by Buddhist monks loyal to Tibet's exiled spiritual and former temporal leader, the Dalai Lama. 
The Chinese government said six Chinese policemen were killed in street battles Oct. 1, and Western doctors traveli.ng in Lhasa said at least 8 Tibetans also were killed. 
About 100 monks staged a third demonstration Tuesday and 60 were arrested. 
Lhasa was reported quiet Thursday. Reporters were barred from visiting the Sera and Drepung monasteries just outside the city, whose mem­bers led the demonstrations, but otherwise were free to move about. 
Tibetan monks had said they hoped to hold another protest on Wednesday, but authorities bolstered security forces with more than 1,000 armed police from other cities and put road blocks around the monasteries. 



How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school oftheir choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
fKAPLAN 
STANlEY H. KAPI.AN EDUCATIONAl CINTER liD. 1717 [. South Bend Ave. 
DON'T COMPETE WITH
South Bend, IN 146637 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
Phone 219/272-4135 

LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 
LUNCHEON  SUNOAY  
SPECIAL'  SPECIAL  
l"hoicr or 10 Combination  ('hoic..  or  l.'i  UinnPrs.  
PlaUers.  Includes  soup,  lndudt's  o,oup.  o,lramt'd  
egg roll, lried rice & hot  ril't•,  t·J!~  roll  and  lt>a.  
if.a.  Senrd  12:30pm  ·  
~pm. Mon. -Fri.  
83.45  
-OPEN7DAYS­ 
I:IO DIXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH  
BUSINESS U.S. Jlln ROSELAND  
!SOUTH BESDl at RASUAI.I.'S INN  
(2t9) 272-7376  

-----------------------~-----------~~ 




Viewpoint
Friday, October 9, 1987 page 7 
Human fragility depicted in war 
"Platoon" has been generally ac­claimed by most critics as one of the best screen portrayals of the Vietnam War. By any standard, "Platoon" is a powerful film; powerful in its emo­tional directness, in the absolute honesty with which it depicts the miseries of the human condition and the tragedy of war. Although osten­sively the theme of the movie is the war of Vietnam -and it is true that it poig­nantly depicts that deplorable chapter of our history -its message is a deeper message, not restricted to any partic­ular historical circumstance. "Platoon" brings to life in a frightfully immediate way one of the most dan­gerous threats confronting us all: the threat of spiritual corruption and the dissolution of all moral perspective in our dealings with other human persons. 
Victor Krebs 
guest column 
If there is anything that charac­terizes a civilized society it is its heightened awareness of the basic prin­ciples by which we acknowledge the value of life and the respect we owe our fellow creatures. The more civilized a society, the more educated are its members and the clearer is their sense of the bonds existing between them, the stronger their recognition of other people's rights, of their own obligations and responsibilities towards one an­other; civilization means the rise of moral consciousness. 
The threat that the circumstances of war pose to a civilized society is the dissolution of its moral dimension: the blurring of our ability to discriminate between what is good and what is evil, and ultimately the loss of our very abil­ity to act from virtue. The scenario is terrifying, the moral sense which serves as the foundation of any human 
community  collapses  under  the  
demands  of  a  perverted  desire  of  
power,  the  pursuit  of  the  basest  

pleasures, and the proliferation of vio­lence and mindless destruction. It is part of the horror of war that it places us in a situation where spiritual values are subordinated to the requirements of physical survival. Despite the com­mon attempts to romanticize war by appealing to the ideals for which it is fought, the undeniable fact is that it diminishes our moral worth by subor­dinating all principles to the demands of the self. This is certainly not a denial of the good will that may stand behind each individual soldier in his belief in the values he sees himself as fighting for; it is a description of the circum­stances in which he eventually finds himself. That is in the end what this movie makes so painfully evident, and its power derives from its ability to bring before us with disarming direct­ness the fragility of the human soul to the circumstances of war. 
We are sometimes rash in our dis­missal of such circumstances because of their remoteness from our present situation, because in the security of our 
Doonesbury 
all-too-comfortable worlds sucn atrocities, such moral degradation and insensitivity to our essential values seems impossible. But the threat is not restricted to the circumstances of war, even if it is most poignantly illustrated by them. The threat of moral dissolu­tion and spiritual corruption is ever­present in any human society, and es­pecially in a society which is, like ours, increasingly preoccupied with the pos­session of material goods, and often slave to the deceptive allure of indis­criminate sensual pleasure and the satisfaction of selfish interests. The threat is most acute precisely in our ever-so-indulgent lifestyles, in our lack of real commitment to anything except the most superficial values, and in the unwillingness to subject our beliefs to the careful and responsible scrutiny of self-criticism and reflection. 
The protagonist of the movie talks directly to us when he says in his last words that it is our duty to find good in our lives; after having witnessed the horrors of war, after experiencing the moral degradation of people like us, we are challenged to seek within us that good that allowed Taylor to survive his terrible trial and to utter his final words of hope even in the face of senseless destruction. 
But how can we discern the necessary components of that Good which is to replace and hopefully prevail against the mindlessness of war and its destruc­tion? How can we start our search for that Good that will keep us safe from the perversions to which we are ex­posed in our society? How, in other words, can we strengthen our moral sense? 
There are clearly two kinds of people represented in "Platoon." There are those that find in the occasion of war ­in the horrifying spectacle of the per­versities of reason gone wild -a painful occasion to deepen their understanding of virtue, to realize the deep roots of moral principles. There is, for exam­ple, the striking scene of Taylor rescu­ing the Korean girls from the violating hands of the American soldiers, and his heroic appeal to the categorical claims of morality, his appeal to our natural bonds with all human beings. But there are also those (and indeed they are the many) who find in war the occasion to give free reign to their basest instincts, indulging in the nihilistic urge to destroy everything and everyone for no other reason than the satisfaction of a senseless illusion of power. Although confused at first, Taylor managed to return to a sober attitude despite the extraordinarily disconcerting circum­stances in which he found himself. Al­though, at first, a believer in the ideals behind their struggles, Elias, the other hero of the story, never lost his critical vision, never ceased to question the reasons which had brought them there; and it is because of that, because of their capacity to see beyond their con­tingent limitations, that they became the moral presences in an otherwise despairingly inhuman situation. 
The fragility of the human spirit to moral corruption is endemic to our human condition. The only protection against this natural tendency lies in our continuous and perserverant attempt to overcome ignorance, in our striving to make ourselves more receptive to the Good. We are able to overcome un­scathed situations of duress where our moral sense is threatened only when we have developed a strong familiarity with Virtue; only if we have developed a sound and sharp moral sense. The human soul has a natural affinity to the Good, but it is an affinity that comes slowly and painfully to us. Not without reason did Plato depict our human con­dition as that of prisoners in a cavl'!. It is through a careful process of spiritual cleansing, of depuration of our passions and sharpening of our intellectual powers that we are able to recognize good and evil. 

There are those that have never seen the light, they are the ones who find in the chaos and destruction of war the suitable medium to indulge in their ig­norance and perpetrate the most atro­cious acts; they are the ones that are most vulnerable to the illusions and temptations of the rampant materialism and selfishness in our so­ciety. But insofar as we have known the delights of mutual understanding, insofar as we have come to see the deep­seated sovreignty of virtue and have been able to intimate the profundity of · the bonds that tie all of us together as fellow creatures and inhabitants of the same world, we will be less prone to fall again into the darkness of ignor­ance, less vulnerable to the corruption which is ever-present, as much in our everyday existence as in the state of war. It is only through exposure to the Good that good souls are made; only through the difficult but sweet labors of reflection that they are cultivated. The deeper message of "Platoon" lies in its challenge for us to search in our lives for the good without which chaos and destruction are indeed.. .inevitable. 
Victor J. Krebs is a graduate student in philosophy. 



Semester abroad reveals new insights 
Football games, Sacred Heart Masses, Observers and Hungarian Noodle Bake all seem a bit removed when you're away from Notre Dame. It's notlike an "out of sight out of mind" thing, but rather, you simply lack much more information about campus than memories and infrequent letters pro­vide. 
Robert Hennig 
guest column 
When you first start the semester, you miss Notre Dame. Tower Records did not stock the Sports Illustrated with Tim Brown on the cover until three weeks after it went on sale at The Huddle. 
No one could find a pub or television station playing the Michigan game and the best anyone could do for the Mic­higan State game was a barely audible signal from Armed Forces Radio. 
Father Malloy's inauguration went on, mostly oblivious to us. It's just not easy being a Domer 4000 miles away from Notre Dame. 
And, as the weeks go by, you really don't seem to mind it all that much. Simply put, there are other things on your mind: 
Are you going to go to Ireland or Paris next week·~nd? 
Will you be seeing Les Miserables 
this Wednesday? or The Phantom of the Opera? or Chess? When are you going to get your next meal supplement or letter from home? 
Past London Program students will tell you that South Bend becomes a strange blur in your memory the longer you are away from "there" and over "here" instead. 
"Oh yeah. We have to go back to South Bend next semester." 
Though the semester has barely started, the thought of going back to South Bend already inspires a sort of dread. 
You've changed and Notre Dame hasn't. 
You've become a black sheep in the Notre Dame family because you dared to leave for a semester. 
All this, of course, doesn't actually matter until you come back. 
For now, you go to Soho to get your hair cut and go shopping on Oxford and Bond Streets and travel on weekends. Day-to-day life in London is so entirely different from your previous two years at Domer U. and also, for many of us, anything previous. 
And it is so much more fun. You begin to wonder if you could find a way to stay and not go back. It just won't be the same. 
Robert Hennig is a junior economics major studying in London this semes­ter. 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to P.0. Box Q, Viewpoint De­partment, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
S"-5"-Sal {A)HI((W PIE HAVE /DT? FOU!<Tf£N O{ARACTCRS IN 5liAKCH OF OIAR4C.TCR.! GOOP HUNTING,  NICE TOHAVE THiffQ.EARE[) UP, 15N'T IT"! tu£3U-, 8-8-BACI<. 70 THE LAW 8{)()K$/  
~ .  



Campus Quote 
"There are two kinds of dreamers: there Is the dreamer who never wakes up; and there Is the dreamer who Is never so wide awake as when he dreams." 
John Cavanaugh 


Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, October 9, 1987 


Education can break cycle of poverty 
This is the second in a series from the Justice Education Communication Group at Saint Mary's. 
What is it like to be poor? Do any of us really know? Do any of us fear that we'll go to bed hungry tonight? Or that we'll wake up in the morning shivering in a damp apartment? Most of us take for granted money, a comfortable home, food, electricity, and water. But many people in America are struggling just to survive. They are stuck in the cycle of poverty. This country of ours, which preaches democracy and oppor­tunity, needs a new focus -a dedicated concern for education which will enable the poor to help themselves out of their desperate situation. 
Sally O'Dowd 
guest column 
Having worked in City Utilities last summer, I have learned much about poverty, about those who are poor, why they are poor. My eyes, often clouded by my blissful existence at St. Mary's, have a clearer vision of reality now. I saw poverty that would make your 
stomach queasy. I saw a young mother, not much older than myself, cry be­cause her water supply had been shut off and she could not afford to turn it back on. She had given birth less than 72 hours before, and had a two-year old waiting at home. "I don't care about myself," she said. "I care about my babies." Unfortunately, most of the parents I saw were not as compas­sionate towards their children. I saw physical and verbal abuse that would make your body shiver at every harsh word and you skin sting at every slap. One woman said to a five-year old, un­bathed little girl, "If you don't be quiet, I'll take you to the bathroom and beat your behind." (I hadn't heard the child make a single noise.) I can't count the times I heard children insulted and . humiliated, being called "fools" and literally thrown into a chair, the parent demanding, "Shut up!" Does it sound like a bar room fight? Anger and vio­lence, scowls and harsh words. Not my 
idea of a typical family. 

I witnessed these scenes for three 
months and have since wondered why 
they took place. I've realized that be­
cause the parents were uneducated, un­
employed, depressed and frustrated, 
they released all their aggressions on their children. Unable to control their destinies, they could control their kids, with violence. Having pitied the inno­cent children, white and black, I have come to a conclusion: the adult poor and minorities that many people dis­respect and mistreat were once children that sympathetic people wanted to nurture, to clothe, to bathe. The needs of today's children must be tended to so they won't be dis­criminated against as adults. 
Education can meet some of these needs. However, inner city schools lack the materials and teachers to provide stimulating environments for these children. But if the Department of Edu­cation were appropriated more funds, successful education could thrive in America. If provided with governmen­tal assistance, schools could afford to pay teachers attractive salaries, thus attracting intelligent, motivated, con­cerned teachers who in turn will motivate the children to read, to write, to think for themselves. Adult educa­tion and job training-placement pro­grams could also demonstrate to the parents the value of literacy, enabling them to set a positive example for their children. Thus, the children won't struggle between conflicting environ-

P.O. Box Q 
Food fight showed lack of respect 
Dear Editor: 
The Hall President's Council would like to address an issue that has filled these pages in the weeks since the NO­Michigan game. We don't want this to be just another letter about food fights, and we hope everyone will give this let­ter a fair chance. 
After the Michigan game, those of us here on campus went to the dining halls in a celebratory mood. Some of us went there to eat; some of us went there to work. Everyone wanted to enjoy the win as much as the next guy. That's where the food fight comes in. 
Sure, food fights may seem harmless, but there's more to it than that. In the Michigan food fight, people got hurt. One student had to receive stitches, but far more importantly, many of the people who work at food services were hurt verbally. People who work hard, day in, day out, to provide food for all eight thousand of us were told to "get real jobs." Many were abused in more obscene ways. 
The food fight showed a lack of respect for all members of the Notre Dame family; those of us who threw food offended those of us who were hit with jello, salad dressing and the like, those of us who work there, those people who had to clean up the broken glass, smeared entrees, and far-flung fruit in both dining halls, and most important­ly, the people with real jobs who work 14 hour days so that we can all eat at convenient times. 
Notre Dame knocking off Michigan 
in Ann Arbor was a Notre Dame mo­
ment. The food fight after the game 
was not. We are all proud to say, "We 
are ND," but food fights are not Notre 
Dame. This week, and throughout the 
season, let's all celebrate with the Irish, 
but not at the expense of each other and the hard working individuals who pro­vide us with a quality food service every day of the year. 
The Hall Presidents' Council 
Gays belong in minority discussion 
Dear Editor: 

Father Griffin's October 2 column is a timely and cogent reminder to all of us to beware of bigotry and prejudice in our lives. The column manifests the compassion and wisdom for which Fa­ther Griffin is so respected not only at Notre Dame, but throughout the nation. His cautionary advice to beware of the hatred in our society toward Jews and Blacks and other minorities needs to be taken to heart by all_ of us. This is especially true when we examine the community's attitude toward another minority not mentioned in Griffin's column, the gay and lesbian members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities. 
I hope that someday soon I will read in Father Griffin's column the following paraphrase: "She would have been surprised to learn the number of gays who love Christ very much. Even when they suffer, they don't hate God and they don't hate being gay or feel sorry for themselves at not being heterosex­ual. Perhaps they feel sorry for heterosexuals who are twisted inside by fear and bigotry, for whose sake, the gays have had to play games, like being invisible ... or role playing. The anger of gays in America -so plain to see in protest writers like James Baldwin ... has always been outweighed by the love and forgiveness in them. 
Robert J. H ohl Reference and Instruction Librarian Saint Mary's College 
Strike testifies to erosion of values 
Dear Editor: 

I'm unable to identify the person who coined the expression "The public be damned." However, it seems to this ob­server to be the attitude of some of these professional footbal players and their agents. The bottom line: Greed and more greed. I fail to see or it es­capes me where there is any concern for the fans. They are the ones who build these stadiums (shrines) and foot the bill for these enormous salaries paid to these people. And it is darned hard earned money that the fans shell out to witness these Sunday afternoon spectacles. The fans do possess a very potent weapon --boycott. They should use it. Unfortunately the good would ments of school and home. 
The impoverished need to believe that hitting the books is far more pro­ductive than hitting the streets. They need to know that education is the key to their future. It's not the fault of today's parents that these children are remiss from the value of education. The parents themselves are simply the product of a seemingly unbreakable cycle of poverty. Impoverished envi­ronments have deprived past and pres­ent generations of values such as self­respect and self -discipline, attributes that enable one to succeed. But these people can't teach these values to them­selves if they don't have the means to learn them. Birds can't fly without wings. If this nation focused more on the needs of the poor, and the desperate necessity of quality education and teachers, these people could under­stand the wonder of learning. Then they could learn to help themselves and to discover the opportunities of which this country is so proud. Children do learn what they live. It's time for this country's poor children, and their par­ents, to learn something new. 
Sally O'Dowd is a sophomore govern­ment major at Saint Mary's College. 
have to suffer with the bad. I know that there are players out there who are con­cerned about the fan. For you I praise. In the light of this greed by some, it is incongruous to say the least when we read daily in the press of those thousands of our brothers and sisters who are unable to come by enough food each day to stay healthy; let alone the many other social services that they are unable to afford. Consider too, the thousands of children and adults who die each year from starvation in this world of ours. And the thousands yet who perish from related diseases. It is high time to reassess our values, our priorities, and our responsibility to our­selves and to also our hungry, trout.~~.:..:! and disadvantaged brothers and sisters whereever they may be found. 
Brother Edward Courtney, C.S.C. Columba Hall 

General Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. Brian Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ........... David Culligan News Editor .................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark McLaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 

By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
What does it take to turn a high school sophomore into a Notre Dame football player? 
In the case of junior Andy Heck, three key factors turned him from a raw athlete with good size to a seasoned, businesslike starter at tight end for the Irish. 
One of the reasons was Notre Dame itself. 
"When I decided to come to Notre Dame, I knew I was going to the greatest university in the country, both academi­cally and for football," says Heck. "Nowhere else does a player get the attention, the challenges, and the pressure." 
A second factor was high school basketball teammate Tommy Amaker, who earned a scholarship to Duke and was drafted by the Seattle Super­Sonics. Amaker was a star senior guard when Heck was a sophomore at W.T. Woodson High School in Fairfax, Va. 
Heck says the respect and ad­miration Amaker earned were influences on his football career. 
"Tommy was a great athlete and a great student," says Heck. "He had the respect of everyone in the school. As a sophomore, I thought I'd sure like to have all that. 
"You look up to guys like that. You emulate them, con­sciously or not," Heck con­tinues. "You see what works for them and try to make it work for you." 
The formula must have worked again. Heck earned numerous football honors as a tight end and linebacker, and made the decision to play for Notre Dame. With the Irish, he met a third factor in his growth as a player, tight end coach George Stewart. 
Heck has plenty to say about the influence Stewart has had on the tight end since spring practice in 1986, when the two began working together. 
"Coach Stew has great inten­
see HECK, page 2 
page 2 ' '" . ----c~.:-~ The Observer _ , Friday, October 9, 1987 
They call him Ironhead 
By CHRISTOPHER "I love carrying the ball, SEPESY that's my job," he says. Pitt News "Sure I get tired. I'm no robot running on premium 
PITTSBURGH -For many gas or anything like that, but people around this country, you get your stamina some­the thought of Pitt evokes where. There's always a images of a town as hard as point in a game where you'll the steel produced there. get your second wind." This idea extends to incor­porate the city's sports The impressions Heyward teams as well. has made on the teams he's 
During the 1970's, the NFL played against have been 
was dominated by the touted across the land. Steelers. The Pirates were "Incredible," is what also heavy hitters in David Futrell, a defensive 
baseball during that decade, lineman at Brigham Young,.and the Penguins hockey had to say.team is beginning to emerge as a team as slick as the ice Add to that, "He roars they play on. down the field like a raging 
But there is one more bull, maybe they should team which in retrospect have made that movie about seems to have always been him," from Bill there. Romanowski of Boston Col­
The Panthers of the Uni­lege. versity of Pittsburgh have always managed to be a And last season, the defen­driving sports force for the sive line of the then number­town during whatever de­one ranked Miami Hur­cade of which you may wish ricanes was quoted as to speak. saying, "Trying to stop him 
This year is no different. is like trying to stop a But the Panthers seem to locomotive -just ain't no have found a new form of easy job." iron to be forged into the steel coming out of Pitt ­

"All I'm doing is the job
specifically lronhead. 
that I'm supposed to do," Heyward says. "If you give me the ball, then I'm going to run as far as I can with it -no more, no lees." 

This weekend's matchup against Notre Dame will be a reunion of sorts for Heyward. He will be facing his former coach, Foge Fazio, who left the postion as head coach at Pitt in 1985 and is now the defensive co­ordinator of the Fighting Craig Heyward Irish. Fazio recruited Heyward for the Panther
Or, more specifically, team, and Heyward saidjunior running back Craig that he is looking forward to'lronhead' Heyward. 
their meeting again. 

Heyward, who stands at an intimidating 6-0, 260, is currently ranked seventh in "This is a special game for the country in rushing, us, not only because we need averaging 139.6 yards per a a win but because it is game, and is 13th overall in against Notre Dame -a all purpose yardage with 155 school that is steeped in yards per game. tradition and against our 
He is also eighth on the all­former head coach," time Panther rushing list Heyward said. "Neither I with 1,943 yards. If he can nor any of the other players maintain this average for feel any animosity toward the rest of his college career, him because he is our he will move to number four former coach. As a matter on this list, surpassing such of fact, it makes the game former Panther greats as even better, and he and I will Warren Heller, Marshall always be friends." Goldberg, Joe McCall and As well, Fazio only has Charles Gladman. And the words of praise for his catch to it all is that he still former player. has over a season and a half "He's in league all by him­to go. self." 
And like Notre Dame's Heyward knows this com­Tim Brown, he is also being petition against the Notre looked at as a legitimate Dame defense -which allows Reisman Trophy candidate, only 99 rushing yards perif not this year, then next. game -won't be easy, but he 
Pitt head coach Mike Got­is prepared.tfried calls him, "the best "Notre Dame is really no player as well as the best different from us. They're in person I've ever coached." their second year of a coach­
And former NFL coach ing transition. If everyoneSid Gillman, who recently does what they're supposed joined the Panthers as a to do, I can't see why we volunter offensive coordina­won't win." tor, calls him, "a 10-pack So let ND think it has the back -he'll carry six of their ultimate secret weapon in guys and four of ours." Tim Brown. The people in 
But the ever-modest Pitt know they have an Heyward sees himself in a ironclad champion in Craigdiferent light. Heyward. 

Heck and former Irish split end Milt Jackson (6) celebrate Heck's first quarter score against USC 
.t:Srown, but Brown's talents

Heck 
would be wasted without the 
continued from page 1 rest of the offensive squad. 
"Our offense is geared to get­all business. Each play is set. ting the ball to Timmy Brown," I have my job, and ten other Heck says. "But when he's guys have theirs. double teamed, it's up to Terry "So I'm not a killer. I see (Andrysiak) to read the myself as a technician -the defense and go to who's open right step, the right place at the -the backs or the tight end." right time. To improve myself, Heck counts the USC game I'd like to be more agressive, last season as a highlight of his but keep the techniques and career. In that game, he stay under control." opened the scoring for the Irish 
Heck says he likes the block­with a five-yard touchdown ing aspect of the tight end spot, reception from Steve Beuerlein but the chance to catch the ball and scored the two-point con­makes the position special. version in the fourth quarter 
"Tight end is fun because, that cut the Trojan's lead to 37­every once in a while, I get to 35. The Irish won the game (38­move the ball. That's what the 37) with a field goal with no game is all about." time left. 
The attention on the offense "Southern Cal had to be my this year has been on Tim best game personally and for the team," Heck said. "I felt like I contributed to the win, and the game was a lot of fun.'' 
Coach Stewart has watched Heck's progress since the spring of 1986. Heck had all the natural talents, but he needed to work on the fundamentals. 
''Andy was young, but he was a decent football player," says Stewart. "Fundamentals are so important for our young men. Andy has really improved to be where he is. 
"He has outstanding charac­ter and athletic ability. He is a super football player for the University of Notre Dame." 
And for Heck, Notre Dame is the place to play. 
"There is no higher level than ND," Heck says. "This is the best. Notre Dame is the epitome of college football." 
downfield and lofted a 33-yard touchdown pass to Mark Layden. But the Irish missed the extra ooint. leaving the Buckeyes with a 13-12lead with less than two minutes to go. 
Ohio State recovered the en­suing on-sides kickoff, but, with a minute left, Pilney forced a fumble with a vicious hit. The Irish had first down at mid­field. Pilney took the snap, dropped back to pass, found all of his receivers covered, and scampered to the Buckeye 19­yard line. Pilney was unable to return, however, as he tore ligaments in his knee on the play. 
Elmer Layden sent young Bill Shakespeare in to quarter­back. Shakespeare, facing a ferocious rush fired the ball right at a Buckeye defender, who couldn't hold on for the in­terception. On the next play, with 22 seconds left in the game, Shakespeare hit Wayne Millner for a touchdown that once again kept Notre Dame in the nightmares of their top­ranked opponents-to-be. A 40­point underdog in some papers, the Irish had rallied for yet an­other tight win. 
After the 1940 season, Layden ended his illustrious coaching career, giving way to yet an­other legend, Frank Leahy. And yet another chapter in the incredible history of Notre Dame football to be told. 

Hunk 
continued from page 1 
watched his team drop its final two games after going 6-0-1 in its first seven. Both losses were upsets, the first coming at the hands of a vengeful Southern California squad which knocked off the Irish before its first-ever capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium, 16-14. Demoralized, the Irish fell in their season finale, 12-0 to Army at Yankee Stadium, taking them out of contention for yet another national title. 
In a scenario familiar to many Notre Dame coaches throughout the years, a two­year mark of 13-4-1 while playing one of the toughest schedules in the country brought howls from the media and fans for Hunk Anderson's ouster. The final straw was the 1933 season, in which the Irish, despite rallying for a 13-12 up­set of heavily-favored Army at Yankee Stadium in the final game of the season, finished 3­5-1. That season marked the first time since the team's 
second year in existence that Notre Dame had finished below .500. Enter Elmer Layden. One of the original Four Horse­men, Layden was dear to the hearts of Irish fans, but he had to prove himself if he was going to become a mainstay along the Irish sidelines. As his career on the field had shown, Layden was up to the challenge. 
Elmer Layden's 47-13-3 mark (.770) over 11 years could only be obscured by the awesome shadow of Rockne. In 1938, 

Elmer Layden Layden's squad won the na­tional championship in 1938 be­hind quarterback Steve Sitko's scrambling and passing. That championship season also fea­tured the 300th win in Notre Dame history, a 19-0 whitewashing of 12th-ranked Minnesota at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Layden also coached what many have called "The Game of the Century." The Irish scored twice in the final two minutes to beat top-ranked Ohio State, 18-13. With Notre Dame trailing 13-6 and three minutes left to play, quarter­back Andy Pilney Led the Irish 
Friday, Oclober 9, 1987 . The Observer 41 ' •. ;...:;.: 
page 3 




The Game 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH -The last time Notre Dame visited Pitt Stadium, Irish defen­sive coordinator Foge Fazio was on the other side of the line of scrimmage. 
In 1982 Notre Dame faced Fazio's 7-0 Panthers, then the top-ranked team in the nation, but a freshman named Allen Pinkett led the Irish to a 31-16 upset. 
Now Fazio will try to stop the 3-2 Pan­thers at his former home field. 
"I'm trying to treat this game just like any other football game," said Fazio. 
While Fazio downplays his past, the Irish football players are keying on the past -a 10-9loss at the hands of the Pan­thers at Notre Dame stadium last season. 
"It's more of a revenge factor," said Irish free saftey Corney Southall. "They came into our house and beat us, and we did have the game won." 
A blocked punt led to the decisive field goal with 1:25 left in that game. That loss dropped Notre Dame to 1-4 on the season. 
If you try to use that game as a barometer for this season's matchup, about the only clue you can derive is the revenge factor. 
This time Notre Dame enters the game with a 3-0 record and a No. 4 ranking in the polls. Pitt is 3-2 and has dropped out of the Top 20 after early season rankings. Notre Dame starts four fifth-year seniors on just the offen­sive line, while Pitt starts six freshmen or sophomores on offense. The differ­ence a year has made for both teams is amazing. 
"Notre Dame has an air of confidence we don't have," said Pitt head coach Mike Gottfried. "We were better off last season. We're a different ballclub, and we've got a different set of prob­lems to work on." 
After resounding victories against Brigham Young (27-17) and North Carolina State (34-0), the Panthers fell short to Temple (24-21) and Boston Col­lege 03-10) and squeeked by West Vir­ginia (6-3). 
"We started out very well," said Got­tfried. "We're just not making the key plays. We've been making too many penalties and mistakes to beat the good teams." 
Don't let these comments lead you to believe that Gottfried has a negative outlook on this game. Pitt features a traditionally-tough defense and an of­fense led by a large-scale tailback. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Pitt's defense 
Two weeks ago against Purdue, the Irish offense faced adversity for the first time this season. After turning over the ball just once in two games, Notre Dame coughed the ball up three times in the first three quarters and found itself down 20-17. 
But the offense turned things around, driving 91 yards (officially 81) to give the Irish the lead. The 44 points scored against the Boilermakers moved Notre Dame to ninth in the country in scoring offense with a 33.7 per game average. 
The Irish will be hard pressed to match that average this weekend. The Panthers have a solid core of seniors on the eighth-rated defense in the na­tion. Pitt is allowing just 269 yards and 
11.4 points a game. 
"They have dominated the other teams' offense," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "They don't crowd the line, they grab it. They play in your back­field." 
Senior linebacker Zeke Gadson, who replaced the injured Darrel Woods at the beginning of the season, is the team's leading tackler with 54, includ­ing 15 sacks, 10 tackles for a loss and five fumbles forced. He teams with senior Jerry Wall and junior Jerry 01­savsky to create a seasoned linebacker corps. 
Freshman left tackle Marc Spindler is second on the team with 49 total tackles, and senior right end John Carter follows Gadson with four sacks. 
As Braxton Banks (knee) returns to Notre Dame's backfield this weekend after missing the last two games, fresh­man Tony Brooks will miss the game with an ankle injury. 
The Irish will also be thin at the split end position as Ray Dumas suffered a knee injury in practice this week, but Aaron Robb (back) returns to back up Tim Brown at flanker. 
Irish quarterback Terry Andrysiak has quietly climbed to 14th nationally on the passing efficiency chart, com­pleting 26-of-45 attempts for 412 yards. 
Notre Dame's defense vs. Pitt's offense 
For the second game in a row, Notre Dame will be facing a team with a quar­terback controversy. 
Senior Sal Genilla has started all five games, but his perfomance has tailed off lately, and even Genilla admits he isn't exactly feeling comforable on the field. 


The Panthers have two freshmen quarterbacks, Larry Wanke and Dar­nell Dickerson, waiting in the wings. According to Gottfried, as the season progresses, the need to give the fresh­men game experience becomes more urgent. 
"I've got to think about getting our ballclub ready not just for this weekend, but also for the next five games down the road," said Gottfried. "All three are inexperienced. If we want to do well next year, we've got to get these freshmen on the field.'' 
As of Wednesday, Gottfried had not yet announced a starter. 
"We're preparing as if the quarter­back is going to be Genilla," said Holtz. It should be noted that the two freshmen quarterbacks are much better runners than Genilla. 
But before the Irish defenders begin to lick their chops, they must first han­dle the nation's 7th-leading rusher. 
Junior tailback Craig Heyward has rolled up 648 on 110 carries this season, good enough for a 4.8 yard-per-carry average. Even more intimidating is Heyward's size. At 6-0, 260 pounds, Heyward will be quite a package to han­dle. 
"He looks like a tackle who got lost and didn't know where to line up," said Holtz. "If there's one guy you have to stop, it's Heyward." 
Split end Reggie Williams leads the receivers with 19 catches for 322 yards and three touchdowns. 
The "No-Name Defense" counters Heyward's running with a stingy defense against the run. The Irish are ranked 14th in rushing defense with a 
99.0 yards-per-game average. 
More importantly the defense has created more than a dozen turnovers. Notre Dame is the top-rated team for turnover margin with a ¢3.3 mark (14 gained, four lost). Southall leads the turnover parade with three intercep­tions. 
The secondary will receive a boost with the return of Brandy Wells from a knee injury. 
On the negative side, the Irish have rolled up 21 penalties in three games for 181 yards, most of those coming on the defense and special teams. But in comparing those totals to their oppo­nents 10 penalties, Holtz feels that his players aren't the only ones making mistakes. 
"I take my player out of the game because he comitted the penalty," said Holtz, "but when I look at the films I really can't see the penalties." Holtz shied away from directly criticizing the officials, but he did note that a split officiating crew will not be working this game, as had been the case the first three. 
In the kicking department, Jeff Van­Horne, the man who kicked the winning field goal for Pitt last season, is strug­gling in the field goal department, making only five of 12 attempts. On the other side, Ted Gradel has been hot for Notre Dame, converting seven-of-nine attempts. 
Punter John Rasp has been averaging 
41.2 yards a kick, while Vince Phelan is ranked lOth in the nation with a 42.7 yard average, although Holtz indicated he wasn't as happy with the kicking game against Purdue as he had been. 


..... 
-

-
page 4 _ The Observer· Friday, October 9, 1987 
The Tale of the Tape  
TEAM STAnSncS  ND  OPP  PASSINO  NO  co  PCT INT YDS TD  RECEIVING  NO YDS AVO TD LO  RUSHING  NO  YDS  AVG TO LO  
Andrysiak  45  26  .578  2  412 2  R. Williams  19  322 16.9  40  3  C. Heyward  140  648  4.6  4  46  
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS  1064  807  Rice  3  2  .667  0  45  0  Osborn  12  142 11.8  1  25  Walker  20  136  20  0  33  
Total Plays Yards per Play Yards per Game PENAL TIES-YARDS  224 4.8 354.7 21-181  169 4.7 269.0 10-76  NO OPP RECEIVING  48 28 .583 2 457 2 n 35 .455 8 510 4 NO YDS AVO TD LO  SCORING OTD PAR-PAS FO TP VanHorne 5 0 11-12 o-o o 5-12 26  C. Heyward Tuten Heard Pm  12 5 4 65  127 10.6 76 15.2 111 26.8 591 13.7  40 0 47 7  0 20 3 47  N. Heyward Riddick Tuten PITT  10 11 1 224  64 54 45 941  6.4 4.9 45.0 4.2  0 0 0 5  17 13 45 46  
FUMBLES-LOST  6-2  9-6  Heyward  5  4  o-o  o-oo  o-o  24  OPPONENTS  49  518112.6  3  73  OPPONENTS  234  585  2.5  60  2  
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  59  46  Brown  9  172 19.1  2  49  Heard  5  3  o-o  o-oo  o-o  18  
By Rushing By Passing By Penalty THIRD DOWNS-CONV Percentage POSSESSION TIME  37 19 3 49-20 40 108:48  14 25 7 32-8 25 71:14  Green Johnson Jacobs Watters NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  8 2 2 2 28 35  72 9.0 0 90 45.0 0 23 11.5 0 10 5.0 0 457 16.3 2 510 14.6 4  21 51 23 7 51 57  Williams Osborn UP OPP  5 2 o-o 5 2 o-o 5 11 11-12 5 5 3-3  o-oo o-o o-oo o-o o-o o 5-12 2-3 3 8-11  12 12 92 57  Schedules Notre Dame (3-0) d. Michigan, 26-7 d. MICHIGAN ST., 31-8  Plttaburgh (3-2) d. Brigham Young, 27-17 d. N.C. STATE, 34-0  
Minutes per Game  36:15  23:45  d. Purdue, 44-20  I. TEMPLE • 24-21  
RUSHING  NO  YDS  AVG TD LG  Oct. 10-at Pitt  d. West Virginia, 6-3  
SCORINGGTD  PA R-PA S  FG TP  Oct. 17 ­at Air Force  I. BOSTON COLLEGE, 13-10  
Gradel  4  0 1Q-10  o-o  o 7-9  31  Green  43  180  3.7  0  18  Oct. 24-usc  Oct. 10-NOTRE DAME  
Brown  4  4  0-0  o-o  o 0-0  24  Johnson  30  123  4.1  4  14  PASSING  NO  co  PCT INT YDS TO  Oct. 31 -NAVY  Oct. 24 -at Navy  

Johnson 4 4 0-0 0-0 0 o-o 24 Brooks 20 82 4.1 0 16 Genllla 112 Banks 4 1 o-o o-o o 0-0 6 Watters 13 48 3.7 1 18 Wanke 6 Southall 4 1 o-o o-oo o-o 6 Rice 7 46 6.6 0 23 C. Heyward 1 ND 0 10 1D-10 o-o 2 7-9101 NOTRE DAME 176 607 3.5 6 23 UP 119 OPP 0 4 3-3 1-1 0 2-2 35 OPPONENTS 92 297 3.2 0 39 OPP 105 
Irish Offense v. Panther Defense 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE PmSBURGH DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER 
HT WT CL LE 92 Burt Groaaman 6-6 280 Jr. SE 15 Pat Terrell 6-0 192 So. 91 Carnal Smith 6-3 240 So. 83 Reggie Ward 5-10 178 Sr. LT 93 Marc Spindler 6-5 265 Fr. TE 88 Anay Heck 6-6 248 Jr. 49 Charles Swink 6-3 235 Sr. 85 Frank Jacobs 6-5 225 Fr. RT 98 Tony Slraguaa 6-5 270 Jr. LT 76 Tom Rehder 6-7 263 Sr. 74 Chuck Williams 6-6 275 Sr. 70 Marty Lippincott 6-5 292 Jr. RE 89 Jon Carter 6-5 266 Sr. LG 65 Tom Freeman 6-4 265 Sr. 94 Nelson Walker 6-3 250 Fr. 75 Tim Grunhard 6-3 271 So. ALB 51 Jerry Wall 6-3 220 Sr. 
c 51 Chuck Lanza 8-2 270 Sr. 54 Jim Kinsherf 6-5 240 Fr. 88 James Turner 6-2 220 Sr. RG 62 Jeff Pearson 6-2 250 So. MLB 44 Jeff Chrlaty 6-2 228 Fr. 71 Dean Brown 6-2 273 So. 55 Jerry Oisavsky 6-2 212 Jr. 
AT 73 Byron Spruell 6-4 279 Sr. WLB 26 Ezekiel Gadson 6-1 210 Sr. 61 Pete Rokich 6-7 262 Sr. 40 Eric Holzworth 6-3 225 Fr. QB 2 Terry Andrysiak 6-1 184 Sr. LCB 7 Quinton Jonea 6-0 185 Sr. 
9 Tony Rice 6-2 190 So. 
FB 46 Pernell Taylor 5-11 218 Sr. 16 Robert Bradley 5-10 180 So. 22 Anthony 6-0 216 So. ss 1 Billy Owens 6-2 195 Sr. Johnson 31 Dan Crossman 6-1 190 So. 
TB 24 Mark Green 5-11 181 Jr. FS 43 Troy Washing-6-2 190 Jr. 12 Ricky Watters 6-3 180 Fr. ton FL 81 Tim Brown 6-0 195 Sr. 21 Aaron Robb 6-1 190 Jr. 19 Teryl Austin 6-2 190 Sr. p 
19 Vince Phelan 5-10 170 Sr. RCB 5 Gary Richard 5-11 180 Sr. K 14 Ted Gradel 5-9 165 Sr. 25 Cornell Holloway 5-11 180 Jr. 
43 Waahlngton
' 
1 Owens 19 Austin 31 Crossman 
' '
6 Richard 7J! 25 Holloway 44!ty 16 Bradley 55 Oslavsky 
51! ' ' '
' 
28 Gadson88 Turner 40 Holzworth 

89 Carter 92 Slraguaa 93 Spindler 92 Groaaman 94 Walker 74 Williams 49 Swink 91 Smith 
' 

'l 
15 Terrell 76 Rehder 65 Freeman · 62 Pearson 73 Spruell sa Heck 83 Ward 70 Lippincott 75 Grunhard 5~1 ~~~:rft' 71 Brown 61 Rokich 85 Jacobs 
' ' ' ' ' ' 
81 Brown2 Andryslak 21 Robb9 Rice 
' 
' 
46 Taylor 22 Johnson 
' 
24 Green 12 Watters 

60  .536  8  532  6  Nov. 7 • BOSTON COLLEGE  Oct. 31 -SYRACUSE  
4  .667  0  42  0  Nov. 14-ALABAMA  Nov. 7 -at Rutgers  
1 1.000  0  17  1  Nov. 21 -at Penn St.  Nov. 14 ·PENN STATE  

65 49 

.546 8 591 7 Nov. 28 -at Miami Nov. 21 -KENT STATE .467 3 612 3 
Irish Defense v. Panther Offense 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE PmSBUROH OFFENSE OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6-2 246 Sr. POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 43 Rod West 6-3 226 So. SE 2 Raggla Wllllama 6-2 190 So. LT 87 Tom Gorman 6-6 280 Jr. 30 Michael Stewart 6-4 201 Sr. 95 Ted FitzGerald 6-5 265 So. LT 71 Tom Rlcketta 6-5 275 Jr. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 246 Sr. 62 Roman Matusz 6-5 270 So. 86 Rich Morrison 6-3 248 Jr. LG 54 Dean Callgulre 6-3 266 So. 
RT 93 Jeff Kunz 6-5 256 Sr. 78 John Glesky 6-4 250 Jr. 92 Bryan Flannery 6-3 247 So. c 61 Ed Miller 6-4 280 Sr. OLB 38 Darrell Gordon 6-3 210 Sr. 68 Chip Back-6-1 263 Sr. 
30 Frank Slams 6-3 235 Sr. auskas 
ILB 34 Wes Pritchett 6-5 234 Sr. 
RG n Mark Stepnoskl 6-3 255 Jr. 45 Greg Harris 6-5 195 Sr. 73 Bill Cherpak 6-4 262 So. RT 62 Roman Matuaz 6-5 270 So. ILB 47 Ned Bolcar 6-2 235 Jr. 
72 Chris Goetz 6-3 275 So. 49 John Foley 6-3 228 So. 
TE 86 Eric Seaman 6-4 235 Fr. LCB 25 Marv Spence 5-10 179 Sr. 87 Dave Tanczos 6-3 202 So. 1 Todd Lyght 6-1 174 Fr. FL 12 Bill Osborn 6-0 190 Jr. 
86 Hosea Heard 6-2 190 So.
FS 31 Corny Southall 6-1 186 Jr. 23 Line Coleman 6-0 185 Fr. QB 11 SaiGenllla 6-3 205 Sr. ss 27 George Streeter 6-2 200 Jr. 8 Larry Wanke 6-2 195 Fr. 
13 Pat Eilers 5-11 198 Jr. TB 34 Craig Heyward 6-0 260 Jr. RCB 29 Stan Smagala 5-11 177 So. 29 Adam Walker 6-3 183 So. 
32 D'Juan Fran-5-11 182 Jr. FB 42 Prentiss Wright 5·1 0 195 Fr. cisco 
5 Louis Riddick 6-3 205 Fr. 
'42Wright 5 Riddick 
~4Heyward 
'l 
29 Walker 
12 Oaborn 

"1 Genllla 86 Heard 6 Wanke 
88 Seamen 82 Matuaz 77 Stepnoakl 81 Miller 54 Callgulre 71 Rlcketta 2 Williams 87 Tanczos 72 Goetz 73 Cherpak 68 Backauskas 72 Glesky 82 Matusz 30 Stewart 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' 
' 
87 Gorman 94 Griffin 
93 Kunz 48 Figaro 95 FitzGerald 86 Morrisun92 Flannery 38 Gor.jon 43 West 30 Slams 
' ' ' '
25 Spence 
'

1 Lyght 29 Smagala 32 Francisco 
34 Pritchett 47 Bolcar 45 Harris 49 Foley 
'

' ' 
27 Streeter 31 Southall 
13 Eilers 23 Coleman 
'' 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well­known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of 


l

the week's major college football 
games. Records are compiled as to 
how each person does against the 

/\ 
I 
spread. In other words, it isn't 
enough to pick the winner of a given Jane Shea Pete Gegen Marty Strasen Dennis Corrigan Rick Rletbrock Jim 'Spook' Daves Stephanie Thomas game. The person must pick the 
SMC Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Guest Celebrity Random Student 
winner and give the underdog 25-16-1 24-17-1 24-17-1 22-19-1 17-24-1 18-23-1 24-17-1 
points. Home team is in CAPS. .610 .585 .585 .537 .415 .439 .585 
(last week: 8-5-1) (last week: 6-7-1) (last week: 8-5-1) (last week: 6-7-1) (last week: 5-8-1) (last week: 7-6-1) (last week: 8-5-1) 
OKLAHOMA over Texas by 32 Sooners Longhorns Longhorns Sooners Longhorns Sooners Sooners NEBRASKA over Kansas by 49 Corn huskers Jayhawks Jayhawks Corn huskers Jayhawks Corn huskers Jayhawks MIAMI (FLA.) over Maryland by 26 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Terrapins Hurricanes AUBURN over Vanderbilt by 24 Commodores Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Florida St. over S. MISSISSIPPI by 20 Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Golden Eagles GEORGIA over Louisiana St. by 1 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Bulldogs CLEMSON over VIrginia by 16 Tigers Wahoos Tigers Wahoos Tigers Tigers Tigers OHIO ST. over Indiana by 13 Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Michigan over MICHIGAN ST. by 6 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Spartans Arizona St. over WASHINGTON by 1.5 Sun Devils Sun Devils Huskies Sun Devils Sun Devils Huskies Huskies PENN ST. over Rutgers by 14 Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Alabama over MEMPHIS ST. by 17 Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Tigers OKLAHOMA ST. over Colorado by 7 Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Buffaloes Cowboys Cowboys Notre Dame over PITTSBURGH by 7 Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

-
Accent ·-­
Friday, October 9, 1987 
page 9 



On 
campus 
Today at 4:.30 p.m. the Multicultural Fall Festival presents ethlnc entertain­ment on the Fieldhouse Mall as John Kennedy sings Irish folk music. 
Saturday night the festival closes at Stepan Center from 9 p.m. to I a.m. with "A Taste of Nations." 
Next Tuesday Economist John Kenneth Galbraith will speak In Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets will cost $2 and can be purchased ahead of time at the ticket stub. An undergraduate reception with Galbraith will be held at 5 p.m. In the Snlte. 
~~~ Local ~~~Mass I 
Closing on Sunday Is the Snlte Art Gallery exhibit, "Life: The Second Decade." The exhibit features many of the best known Images taken for Life Magazine between 1946 and 1955. 
The South tiend Art Center exhibit "The Artistic Heritage of South Bend: 19.30-1970" also closes Sunday. The Invitational show features work of approximately 65 area artists. 
"Florence Prints: Prints from the Santa Reparata Graphic Art Center" covering the past 
15 years will be at the Saint Mary's Moreau Galleries until Oct. 29. 
ChitChat ••• 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL accent writer 
D
ebra Winger has an un­credited role Tim Hutton's (her husband) new movie, "Made In Heaven." Winger plays a red-haired, chlan­smoklng man named Emmett. Her contract for the cameo role stipulated that no reference be made to her In the credits.... At the end of the 1969 classic tllm, "Easy Rider," the charac­ters played by Dennis Hopper, Jack Nicholson and Peter Fonda are all dead. Nonethe­less, a sequel Is In the works which would Include all three actors.... Kirk Cameron has been signed by producer David Permut to star In "Blind Date II . . . . Movie versions of "The Beverly Hillbillies" and "The Addams family" are being con­sidered.... Meryl Streep Is In Australia tllmlng "Evil Angels" based on the nonfiction book by John Bryson. Streep plays a woman who Is convicted for the murder of her 2-month-old baby.... Singer Elton John just received the personal coat of arms he commissioned two 
years ago. . . . Bette Davis Is Interested In starring in a movie version of "Steel Mag­nolias," the hit off-Broadway play by Robert Harling and says she wants Elizabeth Taylor and Katharine Hepburn to co-star. . . . Rock star Prince, apparently undismayed by the negative reactions to his last movie, "Under the Cherry Moon," Is releasing his "Sign o' the Times" nationally on Nov. II In which he both stars and directs. . . . Thomas Monag­han, owner of the Detroit Tigers and "Magnum P.l." fan, gave actor Tom Selleck ten shares of Tigers' stock during a recent visit to Hawaii when he visited the set of the show. Sel­leck has worn a Tigers' cap on the show and players Alan Trammel and Lou Whitaker have appeared In "Magnum" episodes. . . . Demi Moore and Bruce Willis were sighted shopping for engagement rings. . . . "Cheers" fans can look forward to another wed­ding this season. Carla (Rhea Perlman) will wed her hockey player boyfriend, Eddie LeBec (Jay Thomas) In a two part 
episode airing In mid-October. 
SACRED HEART SUNDAY 
MASS SCHEDULE 5 p.m. (Saturday VIgil) Fr. Austin Collins, Celebrant 9 a.m. Fr. Michael Heppen, Celebrant 10:.30 a.m. Fr. John Lahey, Celebrant 
12:15 p.m. Fr. Daniel Jenky, Celebrant 
7: 15 p.m. Vespers -Lady Chapel SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY 
MASS SCHEDULE 10:.30 a.m. Church of Loretto 4:.30 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers -Church of Loretto This modern Hollywood western displaced to the Australian outback In the aftermath ofWorld War III depicts a handful ofgrubby survivors fighting over dwindling gasoline supplies In order to keep on the road. Mel Gibson Is featured as a loner and borderline hero In the clash between savagery and civilization. 
SMALL CHANGE Sat Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
Francois Trauffaut's celebration ofchildhood Is structured as a series of vignettes tracing the histories of a dozen children of various ages as they make their way toward adolescence and adulthood. This warm and tender comedy Is one of Truffaut's most personal tllms. 
THE BIG EASY University Park East Cinemas I :45 .3:45 5:45 7:45 and 9:45 
This steamy action thriller was tllmed In New Orleans and has an authentic C<Uun look. Dennis Quaid and Ellen Barkin team up to solve a complicated series of mob killings and Investigate pollee corruption. Laced throughout the action plot Is a clever morality play that leaves the audience thinking. 
BIG TOWN University Park East Cinemas 2, 4:.30, 7 and 9:.30 p.m. 
Matt Dillon has his first meaty role since "The Flamingo Kid." Set In 1957, the tllm follows the adventures of a country kid hoping to make his fortune In the backroom gambling arenas of Chicago. He enters a seductive world of violence and crime as he makes his way throught the big city. Diane Lane co-stars as the stripper he falls In love with, despite the oppositon of her mobster husband. 
Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7.3.36 
"THE UNTOUCHABLES" "FOURTH PROTOCOL" "THE BIG EASY" "NO WAY OUT" "CANT BUY ME LOVE" "BIG TOWN" "BEVERLY HILLS COP II" 


UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 
"LA BAMBA" "BIG SHOTS" "fULL METAL JACKET" 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2.340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"THE PRINCIPAL" "STAKEOUT" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
SCOTTSDALE CINAEMAS 
I 15.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 
"HELLRAISER" "THE PICK-UP ARTIST" 
100 CENTER CINEMA 
I00 Center St. 259-0414 
"SUMMERSCHOOL" "MAID TO ORDER" 

FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277-1522 

"LIKE fATHER, LIKE SON" "DIRTY DANCING" "HELLRAISER" 
READY Ill CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 68.3-1 I 12 
"HAMBURGER HILL" "WHO'S THAT GIRL?" "THE LOST BOYS" "LA BAMBA" 

-
-
-· 
page 10 Accent Friday, October 9, 1987 
Liberation in a chauvinist Church 
J\ young lady called to ask Church makes up its mind to seemed that way to me. Every wasn't threatened then, and I the Church; we need it for a .nttow I feel about women's ordain them?" time I feel updated, the New am not threatened now, if the­while. Without it, we would be liberation. If a Darwinist had Drin~n answered: "Women Theology takes a couple of ology shows this to be the will left naked to our enemy, spiri­phoned Billy Sunday to ask should urge the start of Vatican giant steps ahead of me. If the of Christ. "They also serve who tual death. Catholic women, how he felt about the vivisec­III, which could decide this Holy Spirit is the guide, what only stand and wait," wrote the who are hurting, are asking the tion of monkeys, that baseball matter." does it matter if an old cur­blind Milton. Shepherds, left Pope to help them. How will 
player, turned Bible-thumper, I said, in agreement with Fa­mudgeon ;pends a great deal out In the cold, should con­they answer him If he says his 
might have answered: "Predic­ther Drinan: "Only an Ecumeni­of time wondering how ob­sider if they're truly un­hands are tied? Will they tell tably." Predictably, as a part­cal Council could decide on the solete he's become? employed. him he could help them if he time male chauvinist, I have ordination of women, after the In the meantime, the Church The liberation of a chauvinist wasn't Polish, or a misogynist 
mixed feelings about women's churches In the West have con­decided It owed a debt to the Church means that all of us or a stick-in-the-mud who 
liberation. Still, I have allowed sulted with the churches in the women. Many Catholic women take turns In enduring pain. hangs on to the tradition? 
myself to be dragged, kicking East, not in communion with are part of the infra-structure When nuns, looking for a place If we knew that the Church 
and screaming, into modern the Pope.~· of Notre Dame, now that the in the sun, complain, I grit my would last 100,000 years, It 
times. She said: "How would you campus In co-ed. Is it hard to teeth, looking for grace under would be clear that the Holy 
feel if Catholics started to or­be a pre-Vatican II male pressure, because they are tel­Spirit hasn't flnlshed launching Women's liberation is like the dain women right away?" chauvinist on a changing ling me again: "Priest, move us. A church lasting to the end 
charismatic movement: charts-I answered: "Ordaining wo-campus in an updated Church? over." When Duty whispers tow, to time is In no great hurry. Not if you have humility, and "Thou must," old age should Who, among the progressives, not If you don't mind feeling reply, "I can, saving the honor dreamed of ordaining women 
superseded. You try to stay of Christ." Why in a power in 1965, at the end of the
Father Robert Griffin patiently polite as a gentleman struggle, should I piously men­Council? The "Now Generation" of the old school, and you try tion Him? Because of the Is complaining because It
Letters to a Lonely God not to die Inside, out of disap­politics of competitiveness and hasn't happened In the two pointment at things you are no anger, having nothing to do decades since then. As Father longer asked to do. You can with the mlnsitry of the Cross, Drlnan says, women of the matte preaching hasn't con­men now would do more harm still say Mass, and hear confes­which turn up as arguments for Church have made more prog­
vinced me of the importance of 
than It does good. Other wo­sions; and these duties can women's ordination. ress In the last 20 years than being slain In the Holy Spirit 
men would be the first to keep you young-in-heart as a they did in the last 20 cen­and speaking In tongues; still protest. Half the Catholics now priest. turies.
"The liberation of a
I'm more sensitive to the pres­
going to Mass would give up Change Is the sign of life, The Pope spends a lot of 
ence of the Holy Spirit than I chauvinist Church
the Church, if we made a quick even In an ageless Church. time stamping out brush firesused to be. I'm more conscious 
change like that." Change is Inevitable In this started by Catholics who claim
means that all of us
of the way women have been 
She was persistent, like the penultimate decade of the 20th they aren't liberated. He an­given the short end of the 
serving girl who shamed St. century; nobody can save you take turns in enduring wers: "You are liberated stick. in the Church as well as 
Peter. She said: "Would they be from it, and nobody should pain." enough to love without reserva­out of it, now that women are 
more of a loss than the Cat­have to, since human beings tion." He tells that to priests
standing up for their rights. holics who don't go to Mass Bede, in his history, recalls wanting to be married: "You
are an evolving life form. The
In fairness to myself, I was 
because of the Church's injus­the argument presented to the
only real tragedy for a priest is are free to love God's peopleprobably raised as a male 
tices to women?" to become bitter in a way that king in favor of the Faith of with all your hearts. What more chauvinist by my mother, 
We could have chased each consumes him. Christ. "Man's life on earth do you need?" How do you likethough she was no shrinking 
other around the mulberry seems like the swift flight of a that? We call his attention toviolet as a housewife. My dad 
bush endlessly, offering each "Ordaining women sparrow through the our human feelings, and he was a life-long Republican, and 
other arguments, none of them banqueting-hall where you are encourages us to be loversl Is she was a closet Democrat in now would do more
new, since I am neanderthal, sitting at dinner on a winter's that tyranny, or isn't It? the days of the New Deal. 
just as she is liberated. Can day. Inside, a comforting fire In the lifetime of the next
harm than it does
When I wanted to be a Catho­
women be ordained? Will they warms the hall; outside the pope, we may have Vatican III,lic, I got her on my side, to be ordained? Not In John good." storms of winter rain or snow which could approve of wo­save me from being blown out 
Paul's lifetime, it seems. After are raging. This sparrow flies men't ordination, or priestsof the water by his WASPish, 
he's gone, will the Holy Spirit You ask yourself: "Are you In one door and out the other. marrying. In the meantime,Yankee prejudice. 
surprise us? Who can say? In bitter, since your turn in the Inside, he is safe from the we're supposed to fill up our 
She had her prejudices. She , the meantime, we have the pecking order never really storms; but after a short mo­time with love, as though love wouldn't, she said, give politics of liberation, which came, as you were promised it ment of comfort, he vanishes could fulflll us as Christians. houseroom to a woman doctor have left some of us punch would come, when you were from sight Into the wintery It's enough to drive a modern or a male nurse. As a middle­drunk. Thirty-three years ago, young? Are you hurt because world. Even so, man appears Catholic out of his outdated aged cleric going to psychiatric as a new priest, I was told: so much of the ministry, once on earth for a little while; but Church, in search of greener therapy, I had a lady doctor as "Ask nothing; refuse nothing. entrusted to you, has been of what went before this life, or pastures. my shrink. We got along so Young men do the leg work of passed out piecemeal to col­of what follows, we know noth­beautifully, the shrink ex­the ministry. Old men call the leagues, who complain of Ing. Therefore, if this new 
"You are liberated 
plained, because the parent I shots. Father knows best, and being treated as second-class teaching has brought any more was closest to was my mother. you are still a boy, so keep Catholics? As a senior priest, certain knowledge, it seems enough to love with­fhe young lady on the phone your mouth closed." do you ever feel like a second­only right that we should follow 
out reservation:' 

said: "You spend a lot of time class Catholic yourself, since It ... " 
defending the Pope." I ex­"Her meaning was you're in the situation of the The Church --whatever the I'll tell you a secret: the plained that John Paul II Is the clear: the Pope op­jealous apostles in the Gospel politics and human errors that Church liberates you from head of the Church and the who saw their rivals calling damage It --continues to be the bondage to sin, so that you 
boss to whom I owe loyalty. poses the ordination down fire from heaven in a way inn of the Good Samaritan for can love your neighbor as She wanted to know If I that they thought only the elect creatures, pausing between yourself. Outside of that, there
of women, therefore 

believed women should be or­were supposed to do?" night journeys, to see If life or are only service jobs, which are dained. Her meaning was clear: the Pope is the Sometimes, when I see death is love's last word. The specialized forms of ministry. 
the Pope opposes the ordina­enemy." amateurs at work. I get mad Church, like the Cross, is a Without love, you'll be a tin­tion of women, therefore the and jealous. At other times, bridge over troubled waters. Its kling cymbal or sounding Pope is the enemy. If I'm on Ten years after I was or­when I see professionals and sacraments and mysteries are brass, even if you're saying 
the Pope's side, I must be as dained, Vatican II ended. Over talented non-professionals balms in Gilead, having noth­Mass. With love, you can 
-much of a male chauvinist night, some of the best profes­reflecting glory on the Church, ing to do with power politics. celebrate a liturgy approved by enemy as he is. sionals were over the hill. I rejoice In the variety of mini­Who Is John Paul II? Is he a Christ, by handing out cups of 
I gave her the answer which I Young men out of the semi­stries. The parable of the vine­wolf In shepherd's clothing; water and bread, In His name. heard Father Drinan, S.J., the naries were the new profes­yard workers could have been Anti-Christ appearing as an an­Volunteers at the Catholic ex-Congressman, give Mary sionals, If they understood the written exclusively for me. "Why gel of light; the foremost of Worker do a more priestly day's Gordon, the novelist. "The mind of the Church according stand ye here Idle? There Is chauvinists'; the last of the work than a pastor does when Pope can't decide by himself to Vatican II. By 1975, these work enough for everyone, and Caesars? By whose authority Is he spoils walking with a game whether women should be or­new professionals had taken I may hire whom I wish." he calling the shots? The least of golf.
... dained." their turns in being over the Years ago, I heard stories of you can say of him is that he is What do you think of the zeal 
"You mean," the answer hill, for their brand-new, laymen presiding at the Euc­an important religious symbol. of Catholics who sound ready came back. "that women Vatican II theology had become haristic celebration, and declar­Even if he's an embarrassment, to tear down the Church, be­should be patient until the slightly outdated. At least, It Ing the forgiveness of sins. I he saves us from chaos. If you cause they can't wear robes on 
got rid of him as a devil, seven the altar every Sunday, Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson worse devils would take his showing off to the flock. who place. Then you could ordain will talk about them behind I...ETS GO! 8f..CK \N 1\-\t: 

IT'S \'II~ ..lOB TO Wr-..TC.\-1 ~00 women to a ministry that their backs? "OOSE.! NO MOOE tv\ONKE~ 
1\N.\) rnr..IS Wl-tt>.T l'\'11 00\N.G doesn't mean much, because 
I'm on the eve of my 62nd 
BIJS\NE.SS, r..LL RIGI-\V 
10 00, t.IJtct-1 \I= l 1-WJt: 10 
the Pope, disappearing, would birthday as I write this, too old 
S\"~1' ~00 m f\ Cl-\t..\R. 
take the magic with him. If the to lie, and too naive, perhaps,
\ Pope Is trivial, all of us are to realize how dumb I sound. trivial, ranging downward In an None of It would be worth apostolic succession. Yet, he's mentioning If I hadn't gotten a treated as trivial; he's punished phone call critical of the Holy 
-
for being trivial, since he's Father. He's not too old to 
denying the women (so they learn, and neither am I. I'm 
say) their share In Christ's sorry for Catholics who can't 
cakes and ale. become priests. I'd rather see 
Extremists, please spare us their love than their anger. 
·­


Friday, October 9, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
n.~Not,.. Dame office, located on the thinS floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, 8Cilepts clualfted ectw.tlltng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frid8y. n.~Saint .._ys office, located on the third Hoor of tWigg8r Collge Center, 8Cilepta claalfteda from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frid8y. DMdllne for next-day claaslfledala 3 p.m. All claaslfleda must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In penJOn or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:hlncWa per day. 
NOTICES  FOUND: Gold chain bracelet at Wedding­less Reception Salurday,I0-3. II is gaining In sentimental value lor my  CROWN POWER AMPLIFIER D-150 A, SERIES 2 AND CROWN PSL-2 PRE· AMP. CALL 23i-7882 DAILY 9-4.  NEED 2 USC GA'S. PARENTS COM· lNG ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO TO SEE THE GAME.  NED 1 BAMA STU. TIX CALL TONY 3346  A-noldl Opportunity knocks lor !heel Meet at Grotto 7 p.m. Friday. THE IM­AGINATION  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 TYPINGWOAD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  girlfriend, so reclaim II before she takes it lor her own. 271-0573 525 CASH REWARD lor lhe return ol my leather aviators jacket loot In a drunken stupor sometime last week. The brand name Is Midway. Please call Jeff at3166.  I have 2 NAVY GA'a. Already been of­fered $75 lor the pair. 11 still Interested, call SLUG at 3105. TICKETS  CALL JOSE x3346 am NOT lullllllng deathbed request ot asthmatic, aids-stricken grandmother. just want2 bema stud tlx--call x1295 we'll talk Need 4 USC GAS, Up to $100 each, call  I HAVE 2 USC GAS OR 2 ALABAMA GAS WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR 2 BC GAS. KATHY 289-2527 Need 1 Navy GA lor lathorl Can you help? Please call Frank al 283-2226. Thanks I  Magg1e M.­Tuesday I aeld that you reminded me ol someone back home. Well, I'd like to know you ...'cause you...you melt me.­"shy eyes" Hey friends-HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND WITHOUT MEl Be real good and don't  
Wordproceoolng· Typing 272-8827  FOR RENT  NHd 2 NAVY tlcketa Call John 1739  3280  Need 4 USC GAo together. I have 2 Navy GAs and $$$ call Kevin £1498  go to Marti's without melll Yeah I was bored and blown ofl by a certain person who knows nothing about the lunch hour.  
TYPING Pickup and Delivery 2n-1406 FREE RAFFLE Marilyn Monroe Poete,. from The Snlle Mu01um exhibit LIFE;The Second Decide 1946-55 Fill out entry forme In the Mu01um Shop. Drawing will be on Sunday, Oct. 11 2;00  COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 large house lor rent--7 bedrooms,2 batho,2 relrlgerators,washer and dryer,off street parking. call debbie belore 4pm. 288-6740.  .... NEED 4 BC GA'SI CALL LISA 2720 TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA· TION -TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US C{) MATI 283-3549  NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 6pm. FOR SALE U2 TIX INDY CONCERT CALL 2030  MY PANTIESII for your USC G.A.'a. I desperately need 2. $$-My terms are VERY negotlablelll -$$ Please, CALL MEl! Usa £1421 •••I'M DESPERATE••• FOR ONE USC GA TICKET CALL DON £2372  You're not going to Jamaica oo therell Ciao and have fun you guys--the glmp I LOVE NEW JERSEYI Please help me to retum to my humble abode (Northern NJ along 1-80) Cali John at 1424  
pm Typing 237-1841 or 277-1131 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-70011.  BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR NOV. GAME WEEKEND&ORADUATION. 1-21t­281·7153. FURNISHED 3 BEDROOM APT BEAU­TIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10  $$$$$ I need 2 GA'o to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 I NEED BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS AND USC TICKETS. AS MANY AS YOU CAN SPARE. PLEASE CALL 3257 AND ASK FOR BRIAN.  HELPII NEED USC OR BC GA'S BIG BUCK$ BIG TAILGATORII CALL TODD 1355 OR SHAWN 2129 ........•........................................................ USC-USC-USC-GA'S-GA'S-GA'S I KNOW USC SUCKS BUT MY BOSS DOESN'T. $$$$$ FOR 4 GA'S. HE'LL  NEED 2 USC GA's. Big Buckel Call Salem 288-2032 I DESPERATELY NEED 7 TICKETS TO THE AIR FORCE GAME IN COLORADO. MY SEVEN IL­LEGITIMATE CHILDREN ARE  HAPPY 20TH MICHAEL WIATER I JUST CAN'T KEEP IT ANY QUIETER YES IT'S YOU, BIRTHDAY REBEL WHO HAS MADE ME STAAT TO TREMBLE SO COME ON NOW AND SATISFY ME AFTER ALL... I'M LINDA T.  - 
MadMace The Notre Dame Macintosh U11r1 Group will meet tonight at 7 pm In Room 124, Hayes-Healy. All Msclntoeh u11r1 wel­come. Call Tim at 2101 lor more Infor­mation.  MINUTES FROM CAMPUS $400MO, HEAT INCLUDED 233 8298 10A2 HOUSEMATES NEEDED TO SHARE HOUSE W2MALES 287-0753  NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFEAII CALL 1075 NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE OA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5218  PAY ANY PRICE TO SEE THE TAOJANSGET"BROKEN ".CALL 1841 ANYTIME I NEED 3 USC GA'S -KATHY 2909 NEED TWO USC GA'S. IF YOU CAN  MEETING ME AT THE GAME. PLEASE RESPOND AS SOON AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE I AM PREGNANT RIGHT NOW AND I MIGHT END UP NEEDING EIGHT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 284­5470.  WANTED: A FEW GOOD DEPRESSED PEOPLE THAT NEED SMILES. Just Cuz Balloons 287-6043  
TAKE ME TO MY SYA Destitute Hog lool<lng tor tun-loving, beer-drinking girt with extra cuh, lor Holy Crou SYI'I. Sat. Oct. 10. Muat buy own now.... and pay tor llcloll-1 w111 nandle drll'lldng and dancing ohorN. Applv In pereon 01 caN Chrtl, x3154 room 22t Holy Croee, or atop by ,he e· or Cllll 3223 F5 ATTENTION DOMERS There will be an ND vlstory perty alter the Air Force game at Mike Brown's hou11 In Colorado Springs. n you are going to be there and need directions, call 283·3150. Mademolaelle, They elao aay that "love never gives up: Ita faith, hope and peffence never Iall. "(I Cor. 13) LOST/FOUND YELLOW UMBRELLA MISSING! Who "borrowed" my yellow umbrella at lunch In South Dining Hall Wednesday, Sep­tember 16????? PLEASE, PLEASE retum the yellow umbrella to South Dining Hall where you found II, Lost and Found, or 226 Howard. No questions asked. Thank You. LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST Ledy'a Class Ring Light blue atone. "B. Seldel66"1nacribed on Inside ol band. Please call Barb at £1348 It lound. REWARD I  WANTED NMd ~ to CHICAGO Oct. 18. Cal BriM 17311 NEED MONEY 1 Call PAT al263-1201. I neeld GA'a lor NAVY and Stu.Tix. lor USC, BC, and BAMA. $$$$$ FUN lor you Ill OVERSEAS JOBS... Sumrner, yr.round. Europe, S.Amer., Auatr8lla, Aala. All llekla. $800-2000 mo. SlghtaMing. F-Into. Write IJC, PO bx 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 12825. RIDE NEEDED TO IOWA-OCT BREAK. PLEASE CALL ANNETTE X4428 NEED A AIDE TO MINNEAPOLI&ST PAUL AREA FOR OCT BREAK WILL PAY $$ CALL 2525 ANYONE GOING EAST ON 180 ON THURS PM I NEED RIDE TO SELINSGROVE PA AND BACK CALL MIKE 1105 NEED AIDE TO NEW JERSEY FOR OCT. BREAK. CALL ZEE £2899 HELPIIIII ST. LOUIS OR BUST FOR BREAKI CAN LEAVE ANY TIME FRI. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL LAURA AT 2750 RIDE NEEDED TO DC FALL BRK 287­0753  NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 21124 I DESPERATELY need one Navy GA. joe x1631 WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Than aell me your BC GA'a ao my elall,., coualna, and unci.. can -tha Eagl..IOHIIIIIII Cell Stave at 232­11818. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX Bc TIX USC-USC-USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DAD! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272-5417, ASK FOR SL I NEED AS MANY PITI TIX AS POSSI­BLE CALL DAN 1914 I NEED AS MANY PITI TIX AS POSSI­BLE CALL DAN 1914 TWO USC GA'S WANTED WILL PAY$$$ CALL ELLEN 272-0806 NEED USC TIX. CALL DOUG AT 234­6718. NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-348-2822 AFTER 5 PM. PLEASE II I need 1 STUD or GA lor the BAMA game. Call 4209  HELP CALL PETE AT 263-3543 • MY PARENTS, UTILE BROTHER AND CUTE LmLE SISTER ALREADY HAVE PLANE TICKETS AND HOTEL RESERVATIONS. THEY'RE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM PUI!RTO RICO. HELP! NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL GIL AT 277-7261 P.S. I MIGHT LET YOU MEET MY SISTER IF YOU DO. WILL SWAP 2 USC TICKETS FOR TWO BC TICKETS. WILL SWAP 2 PENN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 BC TICKETS. CALL BILL STARR 1100-343-2820. WILL ALSO BUY BC FOR SS. MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283­1997. Have "friends" commlng up tor the USC game. Would love to get them GA'a so that they can see their Alma Maler.getatompedl Pleaaa call Bill 283-2328 or Chrla x2322. ALABAMA TICKETS--I NEED II II you can hook me up with 2 G.A.s tho big $$$'s will como your way. call Paul at 1116 USC: I need two GAs lor the USC game. Call Mike at 271-0765. BC Yep, I need two GAo lor tho Booton Col­lege game. Please call Mike at271-Q765.  I NEED TWO USC GAs Call Kate: 4120 Needed 4 Navy GA'a and 2 stud tix call Brian 1456 Needed 4 Navy GA'e a 2 stud tlx call Brian at 1466 Need a lot of USC tlx. Help me pleaeell Call 284-5338$$$ USELESS SEARCH CONTINUES ... PLEASE END MY HUNT FOR USC TIXI CALL JEN £4387 ROW ROW ROW YOUR BOAT DAD IS SURE TO PAY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONE NAVY GAl (DOES THIS SOUND DESPERATE, OR WHAT? I?) CALL JEN £4387 DESPERATE FOR 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261. NEED 2 USC TIXI STUDENT-GA. $$ NO PROBLEM. CALL (404) 392-1500 COL­LECT. ASK FOR STEVE JEGIER OR LEAVE MSG. 2 USC GA'S AND 1 NAVY STUDENT TIX NEEDED. CALL DOROTHY AT 2868 HELP NEED 2 USC TIX 10 BC TIX CALL ANDY 1931 OR MIKE 287-3980  WE DO TAILGATEIIB. MAKE YOURS NOTICEABLE. CONGRATULATIONS TOM BRENNAN­-WOMAN OF THE WEEK CALL 1876 TO CONGRATULATE MAY THE SACRED HEART OF JESUS BE ADORED GLORIFIED, LOVED, AND PRESERVED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD NOW AND FOREVER. SACRED HEART OF JESUS PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE WORKER OF MIRACLES PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE HELP OF THE HOPELESS PRAY FOR US. SAY THIS PRAYER 9X A DAY FOR 9 DAYS. IT HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. SDA F5 PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE INCLUDING ONEWAY MUST CALL 2013 TODAY BEFORE 3PM $80 ALSO DUE TODAY DUDE, DA ... DA ... DUDE, DUDE HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY PHIL (BIG FIG) LUCERO JUSTIN CHARLES, HOPE EVERYTHING WENT WELL THIS MORNING ...... THEY LOVED YOUIII XOXOX, K.P.  
LOST: WOMEN'S PETITE RING WITH DIAMOND. INITIALS M.K.F. REWARD.  Need ride to Champaign lor tall break-­call Mike 1699  STOP I I NEED STUDENT OR  I NEED U.S.C. TICKETS IN A BIG WAY  HELPII I NEED ONE STUD. OR GA TIX FOR THE NAVY GAME. I AM WILLING  
REWARD. REWARDIIII CALL 3023 OR 2999 ·PLEASE LOST: TWO DORM KEYS ON GREEN, PLASTIC TENNIS-RACKET SHAPED SHAPED KEY RING. PLEASE CALL 3881 IF FOUND. THANKSIIIIIII LOST: My jeans jacket wu taken by mis­ EARN $4 PER HR. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING, MEALS I EXCELLENT WORK ENVIRONMENT ARE AVAIL­ABLE. CALL 2n-:zee2 FROM 10 AM I 8 PM FOR DETAILS. I WANT TO BUY A MACINTOSH COM­PUTER. CALL 271-o962 OR 284-5338  G.A. TICKETS TO THE B.C. GAMEl WILL PAY BIG $$$1 CALL DAN AT £1823 CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111  AND WILL PAY BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL PETE AT 3506 OR 3498. I NEED UP TO 25 TICKETS FOR THIS ONE GAME. HELP ME OUT ..... Do you need $? Well I need 4-6 GA Navy tlcketa. Call 284-4648 day or 272-5579 evening.  TO PAY A LOT OF $$$$. CALL WILL X3119 111111$$$$$$$$$$$$11111 FREE GIFT 111111$$$$$$$$1111 WANTED 3 ALABAMA TIX (GA'S OR STUD) HAVE USC STUD TIX TO TRADE AND LOTS OF $$$$. CALL KEVIN X24n.  TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND THAT BEAUTIFUL GIFT YOUR ROOM­MATES GAVE YOU FOR YOUR BIRTHDAY WANTS TO TURN AROUND! TURN IT AROUND TURN IT AROUND  
take from the coat room at Senior Bar on Sat. (100). h Ia dlltlngulaheble by a amall bottle oltabuoo uuce (don't oak) In the pocket. I'm relying on aomeone'a good will to retum h. Kevin x1665  MY MOTHER"& BIRTHDAY IS NOV. 14 and all ella -nil Ia tlx to B.C and llAMA. I nMd tour tlx to aachll Alao tlx to Nlvy and Penn. Pleaae call USA 283-3701.  NEED B.C. TICKETSIIII 4 GOOD SEATS WILL PAY TOP SSIIIIIII CALL KEUY-BEUY: 234-711181111  $$$$ I NEED $$$$ BOSTN COLLEGE TICKETS $$$ STUDENTS OR G.A.'S CALL FITZ 3758 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD  HAVE 2 NAVY TX, WILL TRADE FOR 2 BC TX OR WILL BUY BC TX FOR BIG BUCKS. CALL JULIE AT 4053 MON. OR LATER ONE MUSKETEER NEEDS TICKETS  TWENTY YEARS AND TWENTY BEERS, HAPPY 8-DAY DUDS, FREY, FLYBOY, AND SUPEI  
LOST-Gold Crou and Cnaln Sentimental Value ·-Pieall cllll Ooug 2327 LOST AT THE MAIN HALLWAY IN THE LIBRARY ON MONDAY NIGHT OCT 5 A GREY HAROCOVER THREE RING BINDER WITH A BIOLOGY LAB INSIDE  WORK FOR THE £1 HOTEL COMPANY IN THE WORLD. NOW HIRING PART­TIME BANQUET WAITERS AND WAITRESSES. MUST BE 21. APPLY IN PERSON MAARIOTI HOTEL PERSON­NEL OFFICE TUESDAY AND WEDNEs­DAY AFTER 10AM. EO&AA  BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big caah offered for BC GA'a I'm holding your family hoataga Plea01 call Chrla X 1489  WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT. X4238 DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM'MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238  FOR THE OTHER TWO TO THE USC GAME GA OR STUDENT CALL DAATAGNAN (CHUCK) AT 2443 1 tic frl Ohare to Calif. Price negotiable. Call Rex m-5118.  ROB CAIN: Congrata on making the hockey team -locka like u really move In on the puck -china upl The SWIMMER In the Training Room HAPPY BIRTHDAY JAY JAARETII LOVE, ????????  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL SOON 284­4393 THANK YOU LOST: SILVER CROSS WITH GOLD RISEN CHRIST IMAGE SUPER­IMPOSED ON THE CROSS. LOST IN MEN'S LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK. GRADUATION PRESENT OF SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL  I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO FRI. OCT. 16 AFTER NOON. CALL KEVIN x3113 WILL PAY $1 RIDE NEEDED FOR OCT BREAK TO BINGHAMTON-SYRACUSE AREA CALL ERIN 2732  YOU NEED MONEY I NEED 2 BAMA GA'S CALL PETE AT 27Hl479 NEED 2 NAVY TIXII 283-2818 AT NIGHT. NEED 3 NAVY GAS CALL 2782 2, 3 OR 4 GA'S WANTED FOR ALA­ NEED 1 ALABAMA GA Call Julie 3714 or 4128 HELPI HELP! HELP! I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE WILL PAY $$$$ OR TRADE UP WITH 2 NAVY G.A.'S. CALL ANNE AT 2784 GRANDPARENTS need 2 GA'ato NAVY  NEED USC STUD. TIX·-CHAIS £3515 1£$% a•o Wanted: 2 GAl or STUe tor usc 271-Ge11 I'm a Setan worshipper who needs BC tickets for my boat. Seriously, though,  MARY O'NIELI HAPPY BD to the alorernentloned. Hey! How about a BD joke? Ready? J U Ll Love, Liz HELPI I neeld a rtde to BALL STATE, TODAY! My HTH will kill me~ I can't go  
1763.  BAMA GAME--CALL BILL X3388  game.Kevln 289-8218  call Kevin at 3184. Willing to trede a Navy ticket.  to hie dance. To save our relationship, PLEASE call liz al 284-5262.  
LOST: A BLACK RADIO HEADSET  NEED 2-4 TICKETS TO ANY AND  I NEED GA'S FOR USC. WILL PAY  
WITH BLUE-COVERED EAR PHONES­ EVERY HOME GAME WILL PAY BIG,  MAJOR BUCKS$$$ CALL CHRIS­ TICKETS NEEDED  TO C.N.S. or SMC I want to know ~ you  
·E ONE SINGLE UNIT -COMPACT ABLE. PLEASE CALL 3661 IF FOUND!  FOR SALE  $$$ 111111 CALL TIM: 234-7166  1867.HELPII  WMithy Wall St. Alum naada Penn St. end BC ttx. Cell Man 1-100-223-11181.  read the personate You mltlld my lui two. Called and let me know or I give up I  
THANKS I  NEED  SELL ME 3 USC GA'S SO I CAN SHOW  
ALABAMA  MY CALIFORNIAN FRIENDS WHAT A  I NEED USC GA'S--HAVE NAVY GA'S  REALLY NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR NAVY &  
FOUND Watch outalde of MorrtOISY. Call  SONY DISKS  and  BUNCH OF FAGS THE USC BAND  AND MIAMI GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH  BAMA CALL LAURIE & JILL 1254  
£3466 to Identity.  Why pay $2.80 or more? Support tha  NAVY  REALLY IS.CALL TIM 3404  TO PAY--CALL DAVID X1712  
MadMaca Macintosh User's Group and  TIX  DO KEENAN BOYS EVER THINK  
PURPLE BOOK BAG MISSING! II you  get high-quality. Sony 3.5" diskettes lor  x3811  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI WILL BEAT  WANTED: USC TIX Ill CALL JOHN 2236  ABOUT GIRLS? CERTAIN GIRLS  
"borrowed" my bag Tuea Oct 8 from  only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at  OTHER OFFERSI CALL DAVID X1817  WANT TO KNOW.  
SAGA PleaHIPie8811 retum anything  283-2101 or atop by Stanford 138.  PLEASE, PLEASE ME--Sell me Navy  
that Ia left to me. No queatlone asked.  NEED USC STUDENT TIXIII WILL PAY  USC-USC NEED 2 USC GA'S I HAVE  GA'sl Call Jim al 2474,2457.  BOOEY: You live life on the 'red' and  
I'm really desperate to get h bacl< & will  1979 FORD FIESTA, STD. SHIFT.  $$. CALL BILL £2003  2 BC GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH KEVIN  wild aide. May your next 20 yeare be u  
do anything! THANK YOU, LISA 284·  BODYA:NGINE V. GD. COND. EXCEL­ 234-1208  I nHd 4 GA tlx tor USC game. Plaaae  'red' and wild as the first 20. Have an  
4454  LENT TRANSP. $800. 288-1494 AFTER  NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S-CALL AN­ call MIIJan 284-4311.  Incredible birthday-you deserve ill You're  
6P.M.  NETTE X4428  PLEASE HELP MEl I NEED A USC GA,  a great coualnlll Love you lola, SHAN­ 
JOE O'CONNOR: I'VE HAD YOUR  NEED IT BAD MAKE ME AN OFFER I  NON.  
FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK SINCE THE MSU GAMEl I KNOW YOU LIVE ON  For Sale--Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, Michigan  need 3 BC ga's -call Mary at £2808  CAN'T REFUSE CALL BRIAN £3007  PERSONALS  RITA Your number Ia 47. Walt your tum I  
CORBY ST. BUT I DON'T KNOW  Charming 7 room cottage. Gas heat,  NEED 4 BC TIX WILLING TO PAY  NEED USC AND BC GA'S 287-0753  -THE BAKERS  
WHERE! SO CALL COLLEEN £3665 IF  atone fireplace. Home newly remodelled.  BUCKS ANQOR TRADE 2 BAMA GAs  
YOU WANT TO GO TO THE REST OF  All new kitchen appliances. Enclosed  CALL scon £1412  4 USC & ALABAMA GAs FOR  BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355  Howard, It just goes to show you thai  
THE GAMES!  porch adjoining kitchen area. Dining  SALE .282-2977  you can't take a good hall down. H.C.  
room, living room, 3 bedrooms, 1 bath.  Need ~SC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG  NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233­ 
HELP I  One block from private Howell Point Park  BUCKS 1111 Call Joe 287-4581 alter 6pm  HELP NEED 4 ALABAMA TICKETSII  2764  
DESPAAATEL Y NEED ONE  with swimming and boat mooring  CALL 233-9660 ASK FOR BOB, WILL  Tom Hand Is a soccer Guru.  
NAVY GA  privileges. Great homa for week ends or  HELPIII Slater and hubby need USC  PAY$$  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  
CALL SCOTI X1840  year 'round living. Ski resorts nearby. Owner $49,900. (616) 445-2219.  GA'a (In pairs). Please cnll Steve al4223 or I may never see my nephew again Ill  NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY 3348  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  see PERSONALS, page 6  


win all the singles and all the Specials on Roses 
1 
doubles. I think we can." In Notre Dame's two confer-~ 18061 State Road 23 · 
Near Ironwood Suzanne Kubek 
ence matches this year, the . South Bend. Indiana 46637 (219) 277-2870 §Irish shut out Northern Illinois, ~~.q,~.q,.q,.q,.q,..q~
last year's conference runner-

A TASTE OF NATIONS 
Saturday. October 1Oth, from 9 p.m. -1 a.m., at Stepan Center 
Let's just call it the party of the year. 
Food and desserts from many different countries (catered). 
Cultural entertainment and music to start the evening. 
An American music survey complete with six different dance 
contests. Door prizes~ The decorations and atmosphere are awesome--you won't even recognize Stepan. 
And better yet it is FREE! 
Everyone will be there so why 
don't you plan to be there too 
and bring a friend... 



page 12 The Observer
-
1·rish host North Star tourney; Gelfman likes her chances 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
In five years of membership in the North Star Conference, the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team never has lost a con­ference match or tournament. 
Irish coach Michele Gelfman 
is not planning on changing the 
tradition this late. 
"We've never lost a confer­ence match, and I don't plan on starting now,'' Gelfman said. "We won't lose. I have a lot of confidence and faith in our players. They're hard workers and have shown it this year." 
Notre Dame will host the-North Star Conference Tourn­ament this weekend at Courtney Courts. It will be the team's last North Star Confer­ence competition before switching to the Midwest Col­legiate Conference next year. Action starts at 9 a.m. Satur­day, but the Irish will not hit the courts until 1 p.m. Singles and doubles finals start at 9 
a.m. Sunday.
Gelfman is confident she will be seeing many of her players in Sunday's finals. Notre Dame holds all of the top seeds in the 
six singles brackets and the 
three doubles brackets. I! _, ~----/"I don't want to lose one Uuza~Ule/S «::7'~ · slot," said Gelfman. "I want to i 
· 

up, 9-0, and whipped Mar­"Even though we don't have quette, 8-1, without top-seeded Alice and Resa in the lineup, Ce Ce Cahill, who missed the we're still about as strong be­match with the flu. cause all the girls won before 
when they moved up in the lineup," said Gelfman. "We're consistently strong straight through. I'm confident if we move our lineups we can still be as competitive." 
Singles players for the Irish will include first-seeded Cahill, who takes a 19-0 singles record into this weekend, second­seeded sophomore Stephanie Tolstedt, third-seeded senior captain Michelle Dasso, fourth­seeded freshman Kim Pacella, fifth-seeded junior Natalie Illig and sixth-seeded junior Julie Sullivan. Cahill and Dasso, Tolstedt and Pacella, and Illig and freshman Cathy Bradshaw 
Both Alice Lohrer and Resa will form the Irish doubles Kelly are out with injuries and teams. will miss this weekend's tourn­The three doubles teams, ament. Gelfman still is confi­changed after the injuries to 
dent the Irish can overcome Lohrer and Kelly, have played Marquette, which she figures together only at last weekend's will provide the stiffest compe­tournament at Northwestern, tition. but that does not faze Gelfman. 
~~~.q,~.q,~.q,~,­
. Daily Delivery 
§
i 


Friday, October 9, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
In NHL opening-day action, the Boston Bruins topped the Washington Capitals, 4-3, the Quebec Nordiques iced the Hartford Whalers, 5-1, the Minnesota North Stars and Buffalo Sabres skated to a 2-2 tie, the Montreal Canadiens and Philadelphia Flyers also tied, 2-2, the Pittsburgh Pen­guins and New York Rangers were deadlocked at 4-4, the Toronto Maple Leafs slapped the Chicago Black Hawks, 7-5, the Calgary Flames sliced the Detroit Red Wings, 5-1, the New York Islanders dethroned the Los Angeles Kings, 4-1, and the Vancouver Canucks defeated the St. Louis Blues, 8-2. -Associated Press 
Mike Kovaleski, 1986 captain and inside linebacker for the Notre Dame football team, will suit up as a member of the Cleveland Browns replacement team Sunday. ­
Associated Press 
Squash Club members can pick up the playing roster tonight at 240 Fisher from 6-7 p.m. -The Observer 
Off-campus is looking for people interested in playing interhall volleyball. Call Dan Schlehuber at 271­0480 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
_.._._.._..~_...,...,...,...,..,.,..,_,______-"~_ 
-
AL playoffs 
Twins take 2-0 advantage 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS-Tim Laud­ner and Dan Gladden drove in two runs each, and the Twins dealt Jack Morris his first major-league loss in the state of Minnesota, beating the Detroit Tigers 6-3 in the second game of the American League playoffs Thursday night. 
The Twins, who were 0-6 in playoff games before Wednes­day night's 8-5 victory, took a 2-0 lead in games in the best­of-seven series, which moves to Detroit for Game 3 Saturday. Detroit will send Walt Terrell, 17-10, against Twins rookie Les Straker, 8-10. 
Morris, a Minnesota native and 11-0 in his career against the Twins in the Twin Cities, allowed a two-run double to Laudner in a three-run second inning and a two-run single to Gladden in the fourth. The runs all were scored with two out. 
Morris, 18-10, also gave up a fifth-inning homer to Kent Hrbek, who led the Twins with 34 during the season. 
Bert Blyleven, who pitched for the Twins the last time they were in the playoffs in 1970, worked 7 1-3 innings and lim­ited Detroit to Chet Lemon's second-inning homer, a two­run shot, and an eighth inning solo homer by Lou Whitaker. Juan Berenguer got the final five outs, four on strikeouts, for the save. 
This game very easily could have become a home-run hit­ting contest. Blyleven, 15-12 in the season, led the majors al­lowing 46 homers, and Morris gave up 39. The Tigers led the majors with 225 homers; the Twins had 196. 
But this game did not turn on home runs,' although three were hit. It turned on defense and speed -with Randy Bush stealing two bases in the pivo­tal Minnesota fourth to tie the playoff record -and that made a loser for the first time in postseason of Morris, the free agent the Twins didn't want. 
Morris had a 1-0 playoff and 2-0 World Series record, all compiled in 1984 when the 

GRaN WITI-I A 
FIRST-RATE MEDICAL TEAM 
Where you go in your profession often has a lot to do with where you start. If you want to make the most of your potential, look into the many opportunities available in NAVY MEDICINE. 
• 
Medical Scholarships 

• 
Unique Careers for Math/Science Majors 

• 
Unlimited Career Potential For Nurses 


The NAVY MEDICAL TEAM offers a professional career plus the unique benefits and rewarding lifestyle as a Navy officer. 
• 
Excellent Medical Facilities 

• 
Competitive Salary & Benefits 

• 
Navy Officer fringe benefits 


A Navy Medical Programs respresentative will be 
on campus October 13th & 15th 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.. 
Make an appointment at the Placement Office, or call ahead for information. 
1-800-221-5932 

NAVY OFFICER. 
TilE ADVENfURE. 
Tigers won the Series. The loser of his last three regular­season decisions, Morris, who went eight innings allowing six hits with three walks and six strikeouts, wasn't any more ef­fective this time out as the Twins continued their winning ways at home. 
Minnesota had a 56-25 home record this year, best in the majors. Add two more. 
Blyleven, acknowledged as having the best curveball in the league, was the winner of this one, allowing seven hits, walking one and striking out six in his first postseason outing since 1979 when he won one game each in the playoffs and World Series for the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Blyleven had retired eight in a row and 15 of 16 before Whitaker hit his first homer of • the playoffs with one out in the eighth for the final margin. Before the homer, Twins third baseman Gaetti made a diving stop of a grounder to his right by pinch-hitter John Grubb, and first baseman Hrbek made a diving catch of Gaetti's throw 
J to save what could have been another Detroit run. 
Last December, Morris had come to Minneapolis, wearing his full-length, black mink coat and offering to come to the 
·rr..tr
Twins as a $2 million free agent. He was turned down flat, 

AP Photo 

Tim Laudner had the game-winning RBI as the upstart Minnesota
and he and the mink went back 
Twins powered past the Detroit Tigers, 6-3, on Tha.irsday night at back to Detroit again, and very 
to Detroit. Morris is headed 
the Metrodome In Minneapolis. The Twins hold a 2-0 game advantage In the American League Championship Series, which shifts to Detroit
much alive are the playoff 
on Saturday.
hopes of the underdog Twins. 

l*******************************************************************~ 
* ~ 
* 
*
*
* 
*
*************************************** 
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
!TWO GREAT WAYS TO SPENO E AN EVENING. 
* 
t Super-pren1iurn Miche/ob t and ~1ichelnb L~qht t li?l2 oz. bottles
* 
* 
*
:************************************** 
* 
*
*
*
* 
@Anheusef·Busch. InC Sl LOUIS. Mo
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
* 
*
*
! 

E 
* 
t ! 
:
* 
* 
* 
: * 
*
* 
*
*
* 
* 

t*******************************************************************: 
Dawkins, Turpin to Jazz 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY-The Utah Jazz beefed up their front line with centers Darryl Dawkins and Mel Turpin in a seven­player NBA trade Thursday that also involved the Cleveland Cavaliers and New Jersey Nets. 
The complicated player shuffle began with New Jersey sending Dawkins to Cleveland in exchange for guard John Bagley and forward Keith Lee. The Cavaliers then sent Daw­kins and Turpin to Utah for backup center Kent Benson and reserve guard Dell Curry. 
The transaction leaves the Jazz with two veteran centers 
•
behind 7-foot-4 Mark Eaton and is expected to provide much­needed inside scoring, Utah President and General Manager Dave Checketts said in announcing the trade. 
All seven of the players traded were first-round draft picks, but none was a starter at the end of the 1986-87 season. 
Dawkins, 30, a 12-year NBA veteran, has a 12.3 career scoring average. But the 6-foot­11, 270-pound Dawkins has been hampered by injuries the past three seasons, playing in only six games in 1986-87 and 97 during the past three seasons. 
Turpin, 26, a three-year player for Cleveland with a 10.4-point career average, scored 6.1 points per game in 64 games last season. Plagued by weight problems, the 6-11 former University of Kentucky star lost playing time when the Cavaliers drafted North Carolina's Brad Daugherty. 
.... 
_j 
Friday, October 9, 1987
-
page 14 The Observer 
Injuries plague Belles in first loss of season 
By ANNE GALLAGHER match by the heartbreaking Sports Writer 
score of 5-4. 
The major factor for the loss 

The Saint Mary's tennis team was health reasons, however, lost its first match in division that's no excuse," said Belles play on Wednesday to Univer­coach Debbie Laverie. The sity of Illinois-Chicago, in its people we had out there were final home effort of the fall capable but they (UIC) were season. more prepared mentally." 
Along with Block's injury, A case of asthma sidelined several other players com­top-seeded sophomore Jennifer peted even though they were Block, and the Belles lost the not feeling up to par physically. 
Kalamazoo edges SMC soccer, 1-0 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team gave nationally-ranked Kalamazoo a run for their money yesterday before fal­ling, 1-0. 
Kalamazoo, ranked eighth in the NCAA Division III stand­ings, was the toughest op­ponent the Belles had faced this season. 
Saint Mary's came out strong in the first half, holding Kalamazoo to only five shots. 
Kalamazoo caught the Belles napping and capitalized on a corner kick ten minutes before the half. 
"We went to sleep for two or three minutes, allowing Kalamazoo to catch us off g'uard," said Coach Van Meter. 
The second half was mainly controlled by Belles' forwards Celeste Aquino, Tricia Troester, Holly Munz and Mollie Meehan. 
Senior Landry Clement had a good steady game in the middle and applied constant pressure on the opponents. 
The Belles' brightest oppor­tunity came when Troester took a shot that deflected off a Kalamazoo defender, giving the Belles a corner kick. 
Meehan crossed the ball to the middle, but it was met by the Kalamazoo goaltender. 
Sweeper Anne Sweda used her big foot to keep the ball away from the goal and out of the Belles' zone. 
Even though the Belles were unable to score, Meter was very pleased with his team's play. 
"I feel good about the game," said Meter. "It was by far the best team game all year." 
Meter feels his seniors, goalie Patty Hatfield, and midfielders Landry Clements and K.C. Chandler have done an exceptional job of leading the team. 
The Belles travel to Joliet Saturday to take on Lewis Col­lege. 

"Everyone has been out, and In singles play, freshman people have not been playing Sarah Mayer won in straight up to their ability," said junior sets, 6-4, 6-3. Freshman Mary Charlene Szajko. Turk dominated opponent 
Susan Lavickas, 6-0, 6-2. Char­
Laverie indicated that he lene Szajako pulled out of a knew the Belles were in for a close first set after some inspir­challenge. ing words from Laverie. She 
went on to take the second set 
"I knew it would be a tough 6-2 to take the set. Sophomore match, this team is one of the Elizabeth Heinz, suffering toughest dual matches of our from an injured hand, lost the fall schedule," said Laverie. first set 1-6, but came back in the second set to win 6-4, but only to lose the tiebreaker set 7-5. 
In doubles play, the tandem of Jane Schnell and Mary Turk emerged as the sole Belle vic­tors. They defeated their oppo­nents in straight sets, 6-5, 6-2. The team of Michelle Cheney and Elizabeth Heinz lost 1-6, 4­
6. Sarah Mayer and Charlene Szajko lost 6-3, 5-7, 3-6. 
Thanks Again To Our Foodservice Workers! 
Tyson-Holmes upcoming? 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Former cham­pion Larry Holmes will come out of retirement and meet un­defeated heavyweight cham­pion Mike Tyson Jan. 23, if Tyson wins his next fight, promoter Don King said Thursday. 
Fravel 
continued from page 16 
play at the varsity level," said NVA Director Dr. Tom Kelly. 
NVA regulations state that a player is not eligible for inter­hall play if he is a member of the varsity team of the same sport in the same season. 
"He played for us, that's all I can say," said Mulligan. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
Berezny and Patty Ahearn for 
good play. Central Michigan Coach 
Christy Freese was pleased 
,' with her team. "We're more of a grass team and it was nice to get a win on a turf field. We had a hard time getting through them though. They al­lowed us few shots on goal. Defensively Notre Dame shut
-
us down well," said Freese. Currently sporting a 3-4-1 record, the Irish get a chance to improve to .500 again at home next Tuesday against Goshen at 4 p.m. 
Holmes' return is "pred­icated on Tyson beating Tyrell Biggs," King said. 
Tyson, 21 years old, defends his undisputed title against Biggs at Convention Hall in At­lantic City, N.J., oct. 16. 
Tyson has a record of 31-0 with 28 knockouts. 

Ill~~~~N~ ;:;:;~:~:.;;,;=, 
~!:CLUB 
BEAT PITT 
FRIDAY 

:~~~~CUERVO TEQUILA DRINKS 75 CENTS~~~~ ;1~r SATURDAY 
!l!l 
I ~gt~g~ ~~~~T $1 

ll 
l....:~::::.:::.. ..,.....,.....................,.........,..............,,..,.....................II 
·~·  
TONIGHT DJ's 8:00-2:00 Bryan Rao Rick Reuter  
Saturday: Freshman class dance 8:00-2:00 Thea's is also co-sponsoring The Multicultural Festival(freshman only) Check it out at Stepan Center.  
Sunday: $2.00 all you can eat 12:00-6:00 hot dogs and chilidogs  


~----l 
Friday, October 9, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
·­
The Daily Crossword
Campus 

Friday 12 p.m.: Multi-Cultural Fall Festival presentation by the International Students Organization, Fieldhouse Mall. 
12: 15 p.m.: Multi-Cultural Fall Festival fireside chat, Professor Burrell on Israel. ISO lounge. 
3 p.m.: Completion of Urban Plunge registration. At Notre Dame, Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. At Saint Mary's, Office of Justice Edu­cation and Campus Ministry. 
3 -5 p.m.: Sophomore class Thank God It's Friday event. Library green at Saint Mary's. If weather is inclement, event will be held in the Haggar College Center Game room. 
4:30 p.m.: Multi-cultural Fall Festival Irish music presentation. Fieldhouse Mall Saturday 
6:45 -7:30p.m.: Special continental breakfast for students taking the G.R.E. North Dining Hall. 
9 p.m. -1 a.m.: Multi-cultural fall festival "Taste of Nations" international food and dessert presentation. Stepan Center. Sunday 
12 p.m.: "Show Your Guts" 5 km run, sponsored by the Alcohol Awareness Week Committee. Start in front of South Dining Hall. Free t-shirts to all finishers. $2 entrance fee if pre-registered in dining halls. $3 on day of race. 
12 -3 p.m.: Start of Red Cross lifesaving course. 218 Rockne. Cost is $10 
12 -3 p.m.: Lifeguard Training class begins. Rolfs Aquatic Center. Participants must be certified in lifesaving. Cost is $10. 7 p.m.: Right to Life meeting. Montgomery Room, Lafortune Student Center. 7:30p.m.: Movie, "Arthur," and make your own Sundaes. Knights of Columbus 
Building. Sponsored by Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Beef Enchiladas Chicken Fajitas Chili Rellenos Casserole 
Tamales 
Comics 
Bloom County 
Fl~r CFFICB? SPOCK 81/CK Fli'atl SfkJI?€ 1£1/V£ ANP ~nt-KJ RJI?. 
1?1/TY/ 
\ 
Beernuts 
fLAS~! THIS JUST /NIw:>T tbT 1-br fl · 
\ 0 
Wt:!Ve-£JaN 
5()fjj, RCPt.IIC€P Ute" 
MY HfiV€ ll N~ MIIN/ MI5~R 5ftXK WITH II ~fA/ ffl?.­
\ 
SPCCTlV€ ON 11f€ 
CH/11?11~/f. 
\ 

lt/N ;rATII[t. Hft£ A-1111[ IJN/V#.S!TY Of /1/0TRE~ME, A I'Eit£RJL,5EtlN~ AL/1(J)T Bct?tA/6-CAMPt/5 ON A~ D4Y THAT WAS SIIA71[REP [A~UER TOD4~ fi()Jt:JIER, 
WII£AJ A LRAUlJ SOVTH 13£NO NAN wet/TON A 1'1/J~DfRllJS I!AHPA6£ ()r EPIC f~~fCI(TtOOr;. T1IE 
HIW .. \ 
-
Saint Mary's 
Grilled Pork Chops Manicotti Cheese and Mushroom Om· lette Deli Bar 


ItT 1H€MOM6NT !30#€,, I Hllm YO</!< A H£'5 HAVING II ~llffla Hf/MIIN 611T.7. !II€W T'fP/C/1(_ /?151/­P!5Cf/55!0!11 7 SflrJCK?_/ &ff€M£!11T / WITH PI(. M:'COY., NO_
\ 
\ 

Mark Williams 
.... wHo RANA&JUVJJ. mr 

WE~ NEff Ullc IVITH cAt1f>V51?EJ>~E11-Y !(i[A/1­
sa£ 3/~V/YtJ~ B/(Jft.A/ tEARY. ~IAN, f/(J.J f)) YO()
-/N(,. "'RALPH LAiJREAI IS 

FEEL? tJfiAtS NEXT ?
THE 1/NTI-CHRJST '1/N/) 

IXJNIIIIIJ£? CPRAH? YOW(
TilT17115, YCV Mtff')' {L(W[5. 

owN UNEOF FOortJW? 
-

SLB presents 

~--------------------­
Friday & Saturday 
7:00, ~----------------~9:30, 12:00 
Cushing Auditorium......._______... Admission $2.00 
ACROSS 1 Speedy 5 Icelandic 
literary work 9 Crow's call 12 Right-hand 
page 13 Change 14 Shopper's 
delight 

15 Eden TV series 18 Profound 19 A Landon 20 Balled 21 Notable times 22 VIne 23 Very high 24 Kind of jazz 25 Pub offering 26 Purchase 27 Mountain 
ending 28 Weather word 30 Castle 
protection 32 Employs 33 Rids oneself 
by snoozing 36 Grate 39 Picnic pests 40 Highways 44 Deed 45 Craft 46 TV Tarzan 48 Asian festival 49 Compass 

points 51 Sault -Marie 52 Forearm bone 53 Big sea duck 54 Exclamation 55 Lure 56 Reagan film 60 Currier's 
partner 61 Bakery worker 62 Horse opera 63 A Kennedy 64 Ripped 65 Getz or Laurel 
DOWN 1 FBI word 2 Land measure 3 Phases 4-man 
(everyone) 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
10/09/87 

t:::-+-+-­
:§ 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Unfolding 6 Foolish 7 Erving of 
basketball 8 Affirmative 9 Sweets 

10 Property recipient 11 Dandelion removers 12 Legislative 
amendments 14 Break 16 Armor 17 Associate 23 Car 25 Ocean: abbr 26 Musical 
instrument 10/09/87 29 Sixth sense 38 Thickly 50 Baseball team 31 Choose clustered 51 More secure 32 Flying saucer 41 Home of the 52 Submarine 34 Com units Braves 57 Cambridge 35 Saute 42 Inhabitant school letters 36 Melted cheese 43 Dynamo part 58 Sch. subj. 
dish 45 Bomb shelter 59 Derek and 37 Accomplish 47 Limerick name Diddley 
, 



Sports 
Friday, October 9, 1987 
Lukewarm play has Irish shut out, 2-0 
By KATIE CRONIN Offensively, Notre Dame Sports Writer played a tentative game. Irish players were in the action, but 
The Irish field hockey team Central Michigan was little better than the tem­demonstrating its scrappier, perature yesterday, playing a more aggressively stubborn, lukewarm game against grass field style of play -more Central Michigan and losing 2-often than not beat them out for 
0. the ball. 
Central Michigan's Darcey In overall stats, Notre Dame Thorpe chilled a warmed-up recorded only five shots on goal Notre Dame team by scoring compared to Central Mic­53 seconds into the first half. higan's seven, this despite the The Irish refused to be frozen teams' having three and four out, coming back quickly to penalty corners respectively. pressure the Chippewas for a "We need more hunger for penalty corner but failing to the goal, especially when we're make use of the opportunity. in front of it. We lacked that Neither team dominated today," said senior co-captain during the first half, but Benet DeBerry. "People have Central Michigan's Corinne to concentrate less on passing Dunagan managed to put one and shoot more when we're in in the cage at 19:01. front of the g~al." 
In the second half the Irish "We made mental errors and spent more time on Central had poor execution," said Irish Michigan's side of the field, coach Jill Lindenfeld. gaining temporary momentum "Four people on the team

1 ne uoservei1HOD HegoVlcs 
with several strong upfield stood out today: left link Benet 
A lack of offense resulted In a 2·0 loss for the noon at Cartier Field. The loss put the Irish back 
pushes affected by breakaways DeBerry, left wing Debbie
Notre Dame field hockey team Thursday after-under .500 with a 3·4·1 record. 
initiated by left link Benet Charlesworth, right back DeBerry and left wing Debbie JoAnne Marshall, and goalie 
Charlesworth. But again and M.J. Beetel," said Lindenfeld. again Irish play stalled once She also cited players Caroline the ball reached the Chip­
N D hopes to earn Top-20 spot, 
pewas' 25-yard line. see IRISH, page 14
continue hot streak at home 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer The Notre Dame volleyball team begins a busy weekend of  Northwestern. Irish head coach Art Lambert says this contest against Kentucky will be the most difficult of the season thus far.  Waller, "so we aren't necessar­ily outmatched just because they are way up there in the rankings."  Varsity player off team; St.Ed's forfeits IH win  
action tonight by taking on the University of Kentucky in a 7:30 p.m. match in the Joyce ACC Pit The Irish will have their hands full with the Wildcats, ranked ninth in the nation and bearing a 10-1 record. Notre Dame heads into the contest with a 14-3 record and a three-match winning streak. Winners of 11 of their last 12  "Northwestern was a big match last week," said Lam­bert, "but Kentucky is a very big match for us. They're the highest ranked team we've faced yet this season." "It really helps us being at home," added Lambert, whose squad has won 14 consecutive matches at home dating back to September of 1986. The Irish have had a full  After facing Kentucky tonight, the Irish go back at it again Saturday night at 7: 30 against Northern Illinois and then again Sunday at 4 p.m. against Minnesota. All three matches will be at home, where the Irish play 11 of their remaining 13 contests. The Huskies of Northern Illi­nois own a 9-6 record and will  By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer A Notre Dame varsity foot­ball player has left the Irish squad after he played in Sun­day's Interhall game between St. Edward's and Carroll. Pat Fravel, a St. Ed's resi­dent and a walk-on cornerback, caught a touchdown pass in the  Dan Whiteside, supervisor of men's Inter hall football at Non­Varsity Athletics, said yester­day that a Carroll Hall protest of the game has been reviewed, and Carroll has been awarded the victory. Whiteside said he spoke to St. Ed's coach Stu Mulligan yes­terday afternoon, and Mulligan admitted that Fravel partici­ 
contests, the Irish are ranked seventh in the latest NCAA Midwest Regional Poll and ap­pear on the verge of breaking the NCAA Top 20 for the first time in the program's history after receiving some votes in this week's poll. Of the three Notre Dame losses thus far this season, two  week off to prepare for the match, after defeating Iowa last Saturday at the Joyce ACC. "We've watched some films on them," said junior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller, "and they're definitely not un­beatable. We'll be trying to play towards their weaknesses. "The national rankings are  try to avenge their two losses to Notre Dame last season. The Gophers are currently 13-5 and, according to Lambert, "one of the top teams in the Big Ten." After these three matches in three days, Notre Dame has an­other week off before heading to Texas and Nebraska for a  6-0 St. Ed's victory. The play was reported Wednesday in The Observer, and Fravel said he went to the Football Office and spoke to Head Coach Lou Holtz that afternoon. "The decision was made that I would leave the team," Fravel said. The junior  pated in the game and scored the lone touchdown. "After we found that out," Whiteside said, "it was pretty much automatic that Carroll wins the game. It's official. It's in the books." "(lnterhall football) is for players who are not varsity caliber or who choose not to  
defeats came at the hands of  still a little shaky since it's still  four-match  October  break  preferred not to comment fur­ 
Top 20 teams, Southern Cal and  early in the season," continued  swing.  ther on the issue.  see FRAVEL, page 14  



Fazio downplays Pittsburgh homecoming 
"You can't go home again." Pitt stats listed above. It was expected that he would Even Fazio's players are dispelling the homecom­-Thomas Wolfe be the second speaker at Holtz' weekly press con­ing fanfare, preferring to look at Satttrday's game ference instead of a player. Especially since Fazio's as more of a grudge match. 
Irish defensive coordinator Foge Fazio returns defense has been a major part of Notre Dame's "They came into our house here in South Bend. 
to familiar stomping grounds Saturday night when success. But Fazio has downplayed all the attention. They beat us, and we did have the game won," Irish Notre Dame travels to Pittsburgh. But in a sense, "I've been back lots of times," Fazio smiled Wed­free safety Corny Southall said Tuesday. "As ithe isn't really going home; he'll be oil the visitor's nesday. I go back to see my mother." turned out they won the game. It's more of aside. 
revenge factor. This year we're 3-0 and rankedFazio spent 13 years on the Panther side of the 'fourth. We have a lot to protect."
field, four as a head coach and the remainder as Dennis As for it being Foge's old school, we don't lookan assistant. In those four years, Fazio rode the at it that way. We look at it as they beat us lastrollercoaster. His first two squads went 9-3 (their Corrigan year, and this year we're going to return the favor." 
first loss was to an Irish squad led by Allen Pinkett) 
Sports Editor
and 8-3-1, but seasons of 3-7-1 and 5-5-1 followed for a final mark of 25-18-3. 
Hut the Pittsburgh connection goes farther than Yet while downplaying the personal emotion, that for the 48-year old Fazio. He was a center and Fazio says that there will be something there. Game of the Week -The Irish volleyball team has linebacker for the Panthers. One of his teammates "It will be different," he said. "I'm looking for­a three-game weekend homestand featuring a was a crazy tight end named Mike Ditka. And of ward to it. I do know their players and coaches very match against ninth-ranked Kentucky Friday night. course. Fazio is a native of the Steel City. well. I have a lot of respect for them. I know about The Irish are looking to to crack into the Top 20, 
It's easy to see why so much attention is being half the players' parents because I've been in their and a good showing this weekend could be the boost. 
focused on Fazio's "homecoming." This week's homes. Friday night's match and Saturday's against Nor­Irish press release has a quote from Foge at the "I know there will be a lot of emotion because thern Illinois are at 7:30, while Sunday at 4 the Irish top where normally a quote from Head Coach Lou the old guy is coming back, but I know they're going take on the Gophers of Minnesota. Admission to all Holtz a ars. The release also has all the Fazio-to tr like hell to beat the old man." matches is free with a student I.D. 


