fJOTRE Ofl~·· t. 
~Q~LEC7t•_;,; 
.. ~~me Capsules -inside
Zl DIR SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
. ' r -p_. ..) '-t • : ' > ., 7 ·; 
•.· • f 
MEMORIAL LIBRARY NOTRE DAME 

Alu01ni senate 01eets and names outstanding clubs 
By JIM RILEY day morning, senate representatives News Editor met with alumni board members from across the country. "We have regional Represet1tatives from the 185 alumni breakfasts where alumni board mem­clubs participated in the three and a bers sit with (senate representatives) half day alumni senate meeting the and talk with them about problems in first week in May. their particular areas or programs for 
next year," Lennon said. 
Four clubs won awards for being out­standing clubs of the year, according The alumni senate normally meets to Chuck Lenrton, executive director of during the weekend of blue-gold game, the alumni association. said Lennon, but they met the first week 
in May so they could attend University 
"They are done by class sizes, A, B, President Emeritus Father Theodore C and D," Lennon said. The Pittsburgh Hesburgh's valedictory, according to club won the award for clubs in the A Lennon. Th~ satellite telecast also group, which includes clubs which have marked the beginning of a $300 million more than 750 members. In the 500-750 fundraising campaign. member group, the Orange County club 
won the award. "We had a campaign kickoff luncheon and then John Brademas 
Ann Arbor won the outstanding club spoke there about the goals for h1gher award for clubs with 250-500 memhers, education in private institutions," Len­and the Siouxland, Iowa, club won the non said. Brademas is the president of award in the D group, according to Len­New York University, the largest non. private university in the world, accor­
ding to Lennon. Brademas is also aThe awards were given at a dinner Notre Dame trustee and is a former 11that Friday night. "(The winners) are term U.S. representative from this dis­also invited to participate in the trict.
Thursday afternoon presentation to the Saturday, the senators attendedDistinguished Student," Lennon added. 
mass, dinner, the telecast and a recep­This year's Distinguished Student tion, finishing up with breakfast Sunday 
Award Winner was Jennifer Lynn !.
morning.
Crawford. 
The first day of the senate meetings, The alumni senate, which meets once the representatives participated in the a year, is a recommending body only. alumni-senior picnic. The alumni "The governing body of the alumni as­"bring chamber of commerce, banking sociation is the alumni board," said and real estate information to talk with Lennon. The board is composed of the seniors who are moving into their members from different regions across area," said Lennon. "That's why we the country and three at-large mem­sponsor it." bers. The board meets three times a 
Then, Thursday, Friday, and Satur-year. 

Distinguished studerit na01ed by Alumni Association 
Observer Staff Report Maria Miceli, assistant director of the areas but who may have been passed vard Medical School after being alumni association. The criteria are over for other awards. graduated from Notre Dame. She said service to Notre Dame, service to the Crawford said she was very happy she is currently interested in cardiol­
The Notre Dame Alumni Association community and good academic stand­and felt "honored to receive (the ogy. "But that may change once I'm has named the recipient of its Distin­ing, she said. award)." exposed to new areas of medicine in guished Student Award for 1987. "She's excelled in all the areas that Crawford received the award at a med school," Crawford said. 
Jennifer Lynn Crawford, a make her a complete person," said luncheon May 8 where she gave a The selection committee was com­physics;pre-med major from Atlanta, Miceli. She said the unique aspect of speech to an audience comprised of her posed of representatives from campus Georgia, was named the award-winner the award is that it doesn't recognize parents, the selection committee mem­ministry, the Office of Student Mfairs, after being selected from a field of 55 just academic achievement or just ser­bers, and alumni club representatives. the faculty, and the rectors. nominations. vice work as do many campus awards. The representatives were in South Bend The other finalists in the competition 
The winner of the award is chosen on Rather, the award recognizes a person for the alumni senate. were Doug Wurth, Jim Domagalski and the basis of three criteria, according t<' who has made contributions in many Crawford said she will attend Har-Erica Dahl-Bredine. 

'Strategic Montent' campaign brightens future for ND 
By JIM RILEY already has raised more than two­20," Sexton said. would enable us to have lectures given News Editor thirds of its goal, or $203.5 million. The largest single campaign compo­at other universities brought into a ''Our endowment will soar way nent is $60 million in endowment for course here live," Sexton said. "And 
A university with an endowment of beyond three quarters of a billion dol­student aid. "In five years we will have by the same token lectures given at more than three quarters of a billion lars and will be one of the top 12 in the $125 million in student financial aid Notre Dame could be part of courses dollars. A major research institute. An country at that moment, given our which wouJd make it possible for any offered at other universities." intellectual resource of the t:::atholic projections," Sexton said. qualified student who wishes to come Church. "Frankly, if what I see happening to Notre name to come here," said Sex­Many of those lectures could be given 
Notre Dame will be all these things does happen, it could be closer to a bil­ton. He "aid no one would be deprived by teachers who hold endowed chairs. and much more in just five years be­lion," he added. Notre Dame's endow­of a Notre Dame education because he Sexton said two out of three of the Uni­cause of the money which will be ment currently stands at $450 million. couldn't afford the co&L versity's senior faculty will be holders generated by the University's current The campaign, which is titled '~Notre The funds will also be used for physi­of endowed chairs by the end of the five $300 million fund drive, according to Dame: A Strategic Moment," is in­cal improvements in the campus. "The year campaign. William Sexton, vice president, Univer­tended to position Notre Dame among main building will be restored to its 19th A total of $42 million is being sought sity relations. the nation's most eminent institutions century elegance," Sexton said. for these endowed professorships.
The University formally began the of higher learing. Its major thrust is Three million dollars is set aside for "More ~:-tan ever before, Notre Dame campa1gn during University President graduate research and education. restoration of Sacred Heart Church. will be the intellectual resource of the Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh's "Notre Dame will be increasingly Plans call for a $10 million classroom Catholic Church, respected by the valedictory message which was broad­recognized as a graduate research uni­building to be built in the parking lot hierarchy and cherished by the laity," cast live to 127 locations in the United versity. There are 20 schools that have area near the post office. "We would said Sexton. States and abroad. been recognized as national research have a modern classroom building five The Catholk· ~haracter of N0trE' 
The campaign, which is the largest universities of the highest esuaHty, and years from now that would have the ever launched by a Catholic university, Notre Dame by a recent poll is number state of the art educatioal media that see MONEY, page II 
The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 2 
THURSDAY, JUNE 4,1987 
8:00 a.m. to Midnight 
* Registration at Morris Inn for Class of 1937. 
• 
Registration at Stepan Center. (Classes of 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, 1982.) 

• 
Annual Monogram Club Golf Outing. 


9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. * Tennis Courts available (located behind the Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center). No charge to reunion participants with ID wristbands. Racquets may be rented and balls purchased at tennis house. Please wear tennis sneakers. 9:00a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
* Sacred Heart Church has a Museum displaying many artifacts from the history of the Congregation of Holy Cross and t~e University of Notre Dame. The Museu~ IS located in the Sacristy. The Museum w111 be open during the reunion weekend from 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m., and again from 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* Log Chapel will be open during the reunion weekend from 9:00a.m. to 11:00 
a.m. and again from 1 :00 p.m. to 4:00 
p.m. 
on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. West of the Administration Building stands a replica of the original log cabin where the University was founded in 1842. Interned beneath the 1906 cabin, replac­ing the one lost an 1856 fire, is the body of Father Stephen T. Badin, the first priest ordained in the United States and the man who donated the site of his Indian Missionary church so that Father Edward 

F. 
Sarin might found Notre Dame. 


9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
• Col'ege of Business Administration Special Pre-Reunion Program on Interper­sonal Relations and Team-Building. 1st Session with Professor Ben Roach. 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
• College of Engineering Special Pre­Reunion Program on Microelectronics for Engineers. 1st Session with Professor Richard Kwor. 
10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
* Center for Social Concerns open for visitors. 
10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
* Tandem bicycles available for campus touring at Stepan Center. 
12:00 Noon to 1 :00 p.m. 
• Microelectronics for Engineers Luncheon. 
12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
• Interpersonal Relations and Team­Building Luncheon. 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• Sacred Heart Church Museum will be open. (Located in the Sacristy.) 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Log Chapel will be open. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
• Center for Social Concerns open for visitors. 
1:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• Interpersonal Relations and Team­Building. 2nd Session with Professor Ben Roach. 
1:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. · 
• Microelectronics for Engineers. 2nd Session with Professor Richard Kwor. 
2:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
• FILMS. (Continuous showing from 2:00 
p.m. to 7:00 p.m.) Haggar Hall Auditori~m (The Old Biology Building behind the F1re Station). 
• "NOTRE DAME IN REVIEW -1986­1987"; a one-hour presentation of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night's "A NOTRE DAME MOMENr -Father Hesburgh's farewell to alumni and friends on May 9, 1987 via satellite. 
* "WAKEUPTHEECHOES" -a history of Notre Dame football (from Rockne to Holtz), professionally produced by NFL Films, Inc. Duration: 55 minutes. 
5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. . 
• 
Reception for class officers and alumni board members. Rotunda, Administration Building. 6:30p.m. 

• 
Monogram Club Mass, Cocktail Party and Dinner in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Enter at Gate 2. 




Schedule of· events 
8:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
• 
Open Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting at the Center for Social Concerns. Rev. John 

H. 
Wilson, C.S.C. 9:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 

• 
Forum on Notre Dame Athletics. Roger 


0. Valdiserri ('54), Associate Athletic Director and Director of Sports Informa­tion; Lou Holtz, Head Football Coach; Richard "Digger" Phelps, Head Basketball Coach. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 
FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 1987 
7:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. 
* Breakfast --North Dining Hall. (Cash Line Only.) 7:30 a.m. 
• 
Reunion Golf Tournament opens and continues until sunset, Participants may enter at any time. Please check your folder for explanation of golf events. Starter £1 Tee call 5621. 7:30a.m. 

• 
Tennis Courts available (located behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter). No charge to reunion parti cipants with ID wristbands. Racquets may be rented and balls purchased at tennis house. Please wear sneakers. Register at the tennis courts for the Mixer Tourna­ments (check your folder for explanation of tennis events). 9:00 a.m. ·11 :00 a.m. 


* "Early Bird Mixer" 
2:00 p.m. • 4:00 p.m. 
* "Latecomer Mixer" 
8:00 a.m. to Midnight 
* Registration at Morris Inn for the Class of 1937. 
• Registration at Stepan Center. (Classes of 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, 1982.) 
9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
* 
Engineering Aspects of Product Liability. Edward W. Jerger, Professor of Aero­space and Mechanical Engineering; Henry 

F. 
Frailey ('45), Director of Engineering Continuing Education and Alumni-Corporate Relations. College of Engineering for Continuing Education. 


9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
• Tennis Tournament --"Early Bird Mixer" (located behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center). Registration at the tennis courts. (Register between 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. for tennis tournaments to be played Saturday. Limit: two divisions, one singles and one doubles.) Check your folder for explanation of tennis events. 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* Sacred Heart Church Museum will be open. Located in the Sacristy. 
9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
• Log Chapel will be open. 
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* FILMS. (Continuous showing from 9:00 
a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) Haggar Hall Auditorium (The Old Biology Building behind the Fire Station). *"NOTRE DAME IN REVIEW,1986-1987"; a one-hour presentation of Universal Notre Dame Night's "A NOTRE DAME MOMENT" -Father Hesburgh's farewell to alumni and friends on May 9, 1987 via satellite. *"WAKE UP THE ECHOES" -a history of Notre Dame football (from Rockne to Holtz), professionally produced by NFL Films, Inc. Duration: 55 minutes. 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
* Tandem bicycles available for campus touring. 
9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
* UL TREY A for Cursillastias. 
10:00 a.m. 
* Reception and Conversation at the Snite Museum of Art with the Snite Museum Staff. 
10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
* Inside the World of Book Publishing. James A. Langford ('59), Director, Univer­sity of Notre Dame Press. Center for Continuing Education. 
10:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* Careers and Change. Paul J. Reynolds, Jr., Assistant Director, Career and Place· ment Services; Jeff Rice, Assistant Direc­tor, Career and Placement Services. Center for Continuing Education. 
10:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* Family Financial Planning. J. Christopher Carlin {'80 JD), Director of Planned Giving, University Relations. Center for Continuing Education. 
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• 
Registration for Sunburst Marathon, 1OK, 5K and Campus Fun Walk at Stepan Center. Sunburst Representatives will be available to handle late registrations. 

• 
Sunburst Packets will be available at Stepan Center for for pick up by early registrants. 


11:00 a.m. 
• Guided Tour of the Center for Social Concerns. Sr. Marietta Starrie, C.S.J., Associate Director for Service1..earning. Noon 
* 
Opening Luncheon. Speaker: Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. ('37) Executive Vice President Presentation of the James 

E. 
Armstrong Award to Sr. John Miriam Jones, S.C., '61 MS. '70 Ph.D. Fieldhouse of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Enter at Gate 3. 


1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Sacred Heart Church Museum will be open. (Located in the Sacristy.) 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Log Chapel will be open. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
* Center for Social Concerns open for visitors. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. *Admissions and Financial Aid. Kevin M. Rooney ('70), Director of Admissions; Joseph A. Russo, Director of Student Financial Aid. Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Room 122. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Reunion choir rehearsal in Crowley Hall of Music (Room 115). All singers are welcome to join in the choir for the in­spirational All-Classes Mass on Saturday in the South Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Open to alumni and spouses. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Book-signing session with Edward A. Fischer ('37, '61 MA), Professor Emeritus, American Studies; Robert P. Schmuhl ('70), Assistant Professor, American Studies. Hammes Notre Dame Book Store. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Social Concerns: Current Student Expe­riences and Alumni Involvement. Rev. Don McNeill, C.S.C. ('58), Director, Center for Social Concerns. Location: Center for Social Concerns. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Who is this stranger? -Personal Devel­opment in Adolescence and Young Adul­thood. Patrick Utz ('71, '74 PhD), Director, Counseling and Psychological Services 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Ethics and Investments in South Africa. Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. ('61, '69MTh), Associate Provost and Associate Professor of Management. Center for Continuing Education. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Civil Engineering Roundtable "Brainstorming Session" with Lloyd H. Ketchum, Jr., Associate Professor of Civil Engineering. Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• You and Your Aging Parent. Suzanne Kelly, Director, Programs for Church . Leaders. Center for Continuing Education. 
2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. . 
• Understanding Personal Insurance. T1m McKeogh ('80, '81 MA), The McKeogh Agency. Center for Continuing Education. 
2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• Tennis Tournament -"Latecomer Mixer" (located behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center). Registration at the tennis courts. Check your folder for expla­
nation of tennis events. 
2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• NROTC Alumni Open House. Navy Section of the ROTC Building. 
2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
• Band Alumni Open House and Recep­tion. Presiding: Directors and Band Alumni Officers. Washington Hall, Band Rehear­sal Room. 
2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
• Tandem bicycles again available for campus touring at Stepan Center. 
2:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
* Refreshment tents open on the North 
Quad. 3:00p.m. . 
• Campus Guided Tour by bus. P1ckup at the Morris Inn and Stepan Center. 
3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
• Forum on Notre Dame Athletics. Gene Corrigan, Director of Athletics: Lou Holtz, Head Football Coach; Richard "Digger" Phelps, Head Basketball Coach. Center for Continuing Education. 4:00p.m. 
* 
Campus Guided Tour by bus. Pickup at the Morris Inn and Stepan Center. 5:00p.m. 

* 
Class Memorial Masses scheduled in various reunion residence halls (chapels) in memory of deceased members of reunion classes. Check hall bulletin board for time and location. 5:15p.m. 

* 
JD group picture. All lawyers of the reunion classes to assemble on the Patio of The Morris Inn. (Please be prompt.) 6:00p.m. . 

* 
Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meetmg. Center for Social Concerns. Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C. 6:00p.m. 

* 
Class Cocktail Parties (Cash Bar) at the Refreshment Tents on the North Quad. 6:00p.m. 

* 
Cocktail Party for all Notre Dame Law School Graduates of the Reunion Classes (Cash Bar). Faculty Dining Room, Second Floor, South Dining Hall. 7:00p.m. 

* 
Class Dinners. Check your folder for location. 7:00p.m. 


• 
Class of '37 Golden Jubilee Class Dinner. Center for Continuing Education Dining Area (lower level). 7:00p.m. . 

• 
Class of '62 Silver Jubilee Class D1nner. Concourse, Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 7:00p.m. 

• 
Dinner for all Notre Dame Law School Graduates of the Reunion Classes. Fac­ulty Dining Room, Second Floor, South Dining Hall. 


9:30 p.m. to 1 :30 a.m. . 
• Refreshment tents reopen. (Late evenmg snacks at 11 :00 p.m.) 

SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1987 
6:00a.m. 
• Sunburst Marathon Run (26 miles). The Marathon starts on Notre Dame Avenue and will follow a course along the banks of the St. Joseph River, through South Bend and the city of Mishawaka. The route will loop in and out of Mishawaka's Lincoln Park and back to the finish line in the Notre Dame football stadium. All alumni and spouses are invited to cheer the finishers as they approach the finish line in the Notre Dame football stadium. 7:00a.m. 
* Sunburst 5K starts on Notre Dame Avenue and will take place entirel¥ on the beautifully landscaped Notre Dame campus. It will follow tree lined roads past the many landmark structures that com­prise this famous University. All alumni and spouses are invited to cheer the finishers as they approach the finish line. 7:15a.m. 
• Sunburst 1OK Run starts on Notre Dame Avenue and will follow 6.2 miles of the Marathon course, crossing the St. Joseph River in downtown South Bend while taking the runners through the various neighborhoods surrounding the campus. Finish line is the 50-yard line of the Notre Dame football stadium. 
7:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. 
• Continental Breakfast served in the North Dining Hall. 7:30a.m. 
* Golf Tournament reopens and continues until sunset. Participants may enter at any time. Check your folder for explanation of golf events. Starter £1 Tee, call 5721. 7:30a.m. *Tennis courts available (located behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter). No charge to reunion participants with ID wristbands. Racquets may be rented and balls purchased at tennis house. Please wear tennis sneakers. Check your folder for explanation of tennis events. 
see SCHED2, page S 

The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 3 


1942: 
WWII calls Donters into the ntilitary 

By MARY HEILMANN Senior Staff Reporter 
God, Country, Notre Dame. 

This familiar carving on the door of Sacred Heart Church symbolized the spirit of the Class of 1942, the first Notre Dame class to feel the influence of World War II creep into their comfortable college lives. 
Dorms that had traditionally been reserved for seniors opened up their doors to mem­bers of other classes in order to house the influx of reserve military corps members. Marching men became a familiar sight on campus. Friends and faculty left the University to join America's fighting forces, and Notre Dame began its own contribu­tion to the war effort. 
Under University President Hugh O'Donnell and Vice Pres­ident John Cavanaugh, the Uni­versity instituted the Program for National Defense, organ­ized and headed by Father James Trahey. 
The program established Notre Dame's first ROTC unit, the Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps, commanded by Captain H.P. Burnett of the 
U.S. Navy. In the summer of 1941, while the United States was still officially a neutral country, 165 Notre Dame fresh­man joined the Navy ROTC as part of the University's overall defense program. 
Many seniors participated in another branch of this pro­Engineering Service and Man­gram. Civilian Pilot Training, agement Defense Training, de­which was intended to funnel signed to ease America's men with legitimate flying ex­transition from peacetime periP.nce into the Air Corps consumer production to war­after graduation. A final ele­time defense production. ment of the program was the 8enior year for the Class of '42 certainly wasn't a long year of military training with no so­cial diversions, however. For the 513 seniors and their Class President James Neal, the year featured a War Relief Carnival in the Fieldhouse, the 11th an­nual Bengal Bouts, the first Naval Ball and the annual Senior Ball at the Rockne Memorial. It also featured the usual fall entertainment of the football season, made a little unusual in that fall of 1941 by the presence of a stunningly successful new head coach, Frank Leahy. 

EDWARD FISCHER tNOTRE DAME f UNIVERSITY OF t NOTRE l)AMEREMEMBERED AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY t A CONTEMPOIW\.Yf PORTRAITt ..t ,....,.~~~·t •'­t -­. .f' ~· ... ...... t ROBERT P-SCHMUHL.t $16.95, cloth t t $12.95, paper t 'TAKE NOTRE DAME HOME WITH YOU' Available at the Hammes Bookstore 2nd floor  

That year Leahy compiled a 8-0-1 record, its only tie being a 0-0 draw with the then­powerful Army team. Seniors traveled to Baltimore's Municipal Stadium for the an­nual Student Football trip to watch quarterback Paul Pat­ten help Notre Dame bring back a victory in the Irish­Navy game. 
Mter a slow start, the bas­ketball team, coached by George Keogan, brought their final record to 16-6. The team's winning scores of 36 and 42 seem too low to be winning scores by today's standards, but they were high enough to bring the Irish to victory. 
Since The Observer didn't ex­ist back in 1942, students read about the success and, less fre­quently, the failures of their teams in the weekly news mag­azine The Scholastic, which was celebrating its diamond jubilee as a campus magazine. Other publications included the ND Lawyer, The Cataly:rer, and The Santa Maria, pub­lished by the Knights of Colum­bus. The 1941-42 school year also saw the introduction of the now-defunct Scrip, a literary quarterly that developed a na­tional reputation for excel­lence. 
Co-education was still far in the future in 1942, but on weekends women were very much in evidence on campus. Fridays often found Notre Dame men waiting at train sta­tions for weekend dates, set­tling them into hotels for their visit, after perhaps a bite to eat at Rosie's or the Hoffmann. 
These places are gone now, replaced by the fast food chains of the '80s. Yet, the memories of Notre Dame's wartime Class of 1942 still linger on campus. One look at the limestone column of the war memorial upon which World War II is carved reminds one of that time 45 years ago when God, Country, Notre Dame had a very special significance to the 513 seniors who graduated that year. 
"Specializing ln• Italian Cuisine" 


Welcome Back Notre Dame 
Alumni 
-Frankie & Family 1213 Lincolnway East · Mishawaka · 256-1444 


A NOTRE DAME REUNION IS A TRADITION THAT GROWS RICHER AND MORE REWARDING WITH EVERY PASSING YEAR 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION STAFF WELCOMES YOU "BACK HOME" 

Charles F. Lennon, Jr. 

Marie S. Gerencher Maria Miceli Dotterweich 
Lawrence R. Cunningham 
Peter Pranica 
Kathy Sullivan 

J. Elaine Cripe Karen K. Anthony Karen A. Bennett JoAnn Liggett Annette Gard Denise Kusmiez Marilyn White Maryanne Pfannerstill Charlotte Horner Judy Gibson Denise Yaggi 
The Observer 




1947: 
Vets crowd ca01pus; golden years begin 
Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 4 
Photo courtesy of DOME 
Clashmore Mike, the Notre Dame mascot before the advent of the leprechaun, clashes with the Army Mule shortly before one of the greatest football games of all time. Notre Dame tied Army, 0-0, but went on to win the national championship in 1946. 
prisoners. They wrote appeals to the government to raise the subsistence allowance for vets.  married vets and their families lived. Hesburgh said the Sunday  pace than the growth of residence space for students. Farley Hall, with its tower  
They strongly supported con­tinued aid to General Douglas MacArthur and his occupation forces in Japan. And, in a forgiving act that reflected deep Christian atti­tudes, they proposed a full eco­nomic plan for the ravaged people of Germany. Among these well-intending Notre Dame students was a  Mass for the Vetville families, assisted in their parties and dances, and caught the eye of many a young wife with his handsome looks. It would be four years before this friend of Notre Dame's Baby Boomers would succeed Father John Cavanaugh as the 16th presi­dent of the University.  called a "pillbox" by students, alleviated this problem some­what. For a time, however, the residential policy of housing students with members of their class was shelved and fresh­man mingled with seniors in traditionally upperclass dorms like Surin. The social events of the year,  
young priest named Father Theodore Hesburgh, chaplain  The major student problem during the post-war years was  outside of the hoopla surround­ing Irish football games, in­ 
of Vetville, or, more appropri­ that there  were  too  many of  eluded the Senior Ball, Junior  
ately, Diaperville. This was an  them. The campus enrollment  Prom,  and  the  Sophomore  
apartment  complex  where  had  accelerated  at  a  faster  Cotillon.  

By TRIPP BALTZ Senior Staff Reporter 
It was the year that Breen­Phillips housed freshman, not women, and the lines at the dining hall were long because there was only one. 
It was two years after the Second World War, the effects of which were more than ap­parent on a campus with 3,000 veterans. Several students lived with their wives and children near the campus in a place nicknamed Diaperville. 
It was the beginning of the four golden years of football at Notre Dame, when Coach Frank Leahy drove the Fightin' Irish to three AP Na­tional Championships, racking up an incredible record of 27 wins, two ties and zero losses. 
That school year the Irish swamped eight teams and tied one, the perennial rival Army. Neither team scored a point in the battle that was usually more than a football game: Notre Dame had a strong NROTC program and it was from the sea that most of her students fought the war. 
The 1947 Dome was dedi­cated to the 323 Notre Dame men who would not be coming back from the field~ of battle. The dedication read: 

-Men and their freedom . . . for centuries untold men have strived for this ideal and in America men have not strived in vain. To us this freedom im­plies all that is contained in the simple words, the American way of life . .. friends, family, the fireside ... the freedom to do as we ought ... the right to speak one's mind ... to wor­ship freely and with dignity before one's God. 
The class of '47 was someth­
ing more than a group of stu­
dents who graduated and 
began their normal, everyday 
lives. They had returned from 
beaches and trenches far out­
side the confines of the campus 
to finish the job they left be­
hind: their education. 
The years of enrollment for many of the '47 graduates were '40, '41, '46, and '47. Thus, the average age of the student body then was higher than today's. The students of '47 returned from their experiences with deeper regard for themselves and their destinies than when they arrived as idealistic fresh­men. 
The class of '47, who had rallied behind the American flag in foreign lands, now turned to even nobler purposes. 
They scribed petitions call­ing for the release of war 
The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 5 

By MIKE NAUGHTON 
Features Editor 
History repeats itself. 
Well, sort of. 1952 marked a transition in the history of Notre Dame which recurred again this year after four decades. A popular University president retired to make way for a new man. 
1952. It was a year that marked some of the coldest days of the cold war. Student publications were filled with at­tacks on Communists and any others who wished to subvert the American way of life. A popular general, Dwight D. Eisenhower, was running for President and most Notre Dame students supported him in campus polls. A new liberal arts building, O'Shaughnessy Hall, and the Morris Inn were under construction and a new residence hall for seniors, Fis­her, had just been completed. 
Student life seems to have beeq less comfortable back then. Bed checks and morning checks (at 7 a.m. three times a week) guaranteed that stu­dents would escape the dangers of late-night carousing. Also, calls to girlfriends and anyone else were considerably
Photo courtesy of DOME 

restricted by a limit of phones
Father John J. Cavanaugh, University president since 1946, was 
in the dorms. In fact, in most 

1952: 
Father Hesburgh to step in; transition unspectacular 
forced by Canon Law to retire. Inset: Father Hesburgh. 

Sched2 
continued from page 2 
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
* Registration at Morris Inn for Class of 1937. 
• Registration at Stepan Center. (Classes of 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, 1982) 9:00a.m. 
* 
Sunburst Campus Fun Walk will take place entirely on the beautifully landscaped Notre Dame campus. It will follow tree lined roads past the many landmark structures that comprise this famous university. 9:00a.m. 

* 
Coffee and donuts available at Refresh­ment Tents on North Quad. 


9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
* Today's Challenge to the Laity. Suzanne Kelly, Director Programs for Church Leaders. Center for Continuing Education. 
9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
* Young Alumni Involvement. Moderator, Donald C. Bishop (77, '85MA); Robert M. Mundy ('76), Admissions Counsel and Alumni Schools Coordinator; At-Large Directors, NatiQnal Alumni Board: Suzanna Carney (79), Anne Marie Fine ('83), Thomas G. Novitzki ('80), Janet Grawey Scanlon ('82). Members of the Class of 1982 are invited to discuss 
"young alumni involvement in Notre Dame Clubs". Sponsored by the Alumni Associa­tion. Coffee and "rolls will be available. This session is open to interested mem­bers of all reunion classes. Flanner Hall Lounge, first floor. 
9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
* Lay Involvement in the Church: An Historical Perspective or "I told you so." Rev. Tom Gedeon, S.J., Executive Direc­tor, Retreats International. Center for Continuing Education. 
9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
* What's New at the Snite? Stephen B. Spiro, Chief Curator Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* Sacred Heart Church Museum will be open. (Located in the Sacristy.) 
9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
* 
Log Chapel will be open. 9:00a.m. to 12:00 noon 


* 
Tennis Singles Open and Novice Tourn­ament (located behind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center). Check your folder for explanation of tennis events. 


(2:00 p.m. 5:00 p.m. -Men's Doubles, Women's and Mixed Doubles. Registration at the tennis courts.) 
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 

* FILMS. (Continuous showing from 9:00 
a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) Haggar Hall Auditorium. (The Old Biology Building behind the Fire Station.) *"NOTRE DAME IN REVIEW -1986­1987"; a one-hour presentation of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night's "A NOTRE DAME MOMENT" -Father Hesburgh's farewell to alumni and friends on May 9, 1987 via satellite. 
* "WAKE UP THE ECHOES" -a history of Notre Dame football (from Rockne to Holtz), professionally produced by NFL Films, Inc. Duration: 55 minutes. 
9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. *Tandem bicycles available for campus touring at Stepan Center. 9:30a.m. 
* Special Mass for all Notre Dame Lawyers of the Reunion Classes. Con­tinental Breakfast available after Mass. Law School Lounge. 
9:30 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 

* 
College of Business Administration Open House. 9:30a.m. to Noon 

* 
Program of Liberal Studies Continental Breakfast and Seminar for PLS Graduates. "The Declaration of Indepen­dence" with": Frederick J. Crosson (Ph.D. '56), John J. Cavanaugh Professor of Humanities; Walter J. Nicgorski, Associate Professor, Program of Liberal Studies. South Dining Hall, Faculty Dining Room (Second Floor). 9:45a.m. *Class Picture -1937 and 1938 Ar­chitects. Location: Morris Inn Patio. 10:~ a.m. 

* 
Tour of the Snite Museum of Art. 


10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
* Law School Open House. 
10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 

* College of Arts and Letters Open House. 
cases there was only one phone in the entire dorm. Conflicts with South Bend residents didn't consist of large beer par­ties and police dogs but noisy students on the bus service and angry drivers. 
Campus life wasn't without its interests though. Saint Mary's students generously threw social parties every Sun­day night and the swells of Notre Dame would migrate across the road to learn the mysteries of' "regulation Q." The interests of the student body were indicated by the the pages of the Scholastic that were filled with ads for men's suits, tobacco, and dance les­sons. 
In sports it was an eventful year though not a particularly legendary one. Football coach Frank Leahy, in his tenth year of coaching, tied in the season opener against Pennsylvania and went on to win seven of the nine remaining games with an exiciting 9-0 victory over USC at home. Meanwhile, new head basketball coach Johnny Jor­dan made his debut as "Moose" Krause's successor with sixteen victories and ten losses against such traditional rivals as Indiana. 
1952 was also the year that a 
young priest and 
10:00 a.m. to 11 :30 a.m. 
• College of Engineering Open House. 
10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
• Refreshment tents reopen -coffee avail­able. 
10:30 a.m. 
• Class Pictures -1962and 1963 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
• Notre Dame: Your Questions with No Holds Barred. Richard W. Conklin ('59MA), Assistant Vice President for University Relations; Sr. John Miriam Jones, S.C. ('61 MS '70 Ph.D.), Associate Provost; John T. Goldrick ('62, '70, '84 JD), Associate Vice President, Student Affairs. Center for Continuing Education. 
10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
• Today's Challenge to the Laity. Suzanne Kelly, Director Programs for Church Leaders. Center for Continuing Education. 
10:45 a.m. 
* Class Pictures -1972 and 1973 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
11:00 
a.m. *Class Pictures -1947 and 1948 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 

11:00 
a.m. to 12:00 Noon 


• Reunion choir rehearsal in the South Dome-Arena of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Enter Gate 10. All singers are welcome to join in the choir for the inspirational All-Classes Mass on Saturday in the South Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Open alumni and spouses. 11:15a.m. *Class Pictures -1952 and 1953 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
11:30 
a.m. *Class Pictures -1957 and 1958 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 

11:30 
a.m. 


• 50-Year Club Induction followed by Luncheon for the Class of 1937. Center for Continuing Education Dining Area (Lower Level), directly across from the Morris Inn. 
11:45 a.m. 

named Hesburgh succeeded then University President Fa­ther John Cavanaugh in a shift of administration which was considerably less dramatic and prolonged than the choice of President-Elect Father Ed­ward "Monk" Molloy. 
Hesburgh's assuming of the presidency was not a surpris­ing event in 1952; he was Cavanaugh's assistant and, due to a Canon Law which lim­ited the religious superior to a maximum of six years as pres­ident, changes in the guard were common enough .to be relatively unspectacular. 
Since then the university has undergone many changes. The student population has grown from 4,979 to 9,600. The endow­ment has bloomed from nine million dollars to more than $350 million, the annual operat­ing budget from $9.7 million to $176.6 million. The campus, which is now co-educational, has grown by more than 40 buildings. 
Nevertheless, members of the class of '52 may hear echoes of the past in all the hoopla sur­rounding Hesburgh's retire­ment. Cavanaugh, too, was honored in student publications for his "years of service," "in­terest in the students," and 
teacher "commitment to expansion." 
• Class Pictures -1967 and 1968 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
11:45 a.m. 
• Silver Jubilee Cocktails (Cash Bar) and Luncheon for the Class of 1962. Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Enter at Gate 2. 
12:00 Noon 
• Outdoor barbeque for all other classes on the reunion quad (at refreshment tents located between Keenan-Stanford Hall and the North Dining). Box lunches avail­able at Golf Course and Tennis Courts. 
12:00 Noon 
• Class Pictures -1942 and 1943 Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
12:15 p.m. 
• Class Pictures -1977 and 1978 Ar· chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
12:30 p.m. 
• Class Pictures -1982 and 1~A~ Ar­chitects. Location: Bleachers on North Quad. 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Sacred Heart Church Museum will be open. (Located in the Sacristy.) 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
• Log Chapel will be open. 
1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
* Notre Dame Then and Now: Past and Present. Edward A. Fischer ('37, '61 MA), Professor Emeritus, American Studies Robert P. Schmuhl ('70), Assistant Profes­sor, American Studies; James A. Langford ('59), Director, University of Notre Dame Press. Center for Continuing Education. 
1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. 
• Social Concerns: Current Student Expe­riences and Alumni Involvement. Rev. Don McNeill, C.S.C. ('58), Director, Center for Social Concerns. Location: Center for Social Concerns. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• Center for Social Concerns open for visitors. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
• The Church in Latin America. Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C. ('45), Director, Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. Center for Continuing Education. 
-SCHED3, pqe 14 

The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 6 

1957: 
Gridiron fever and Ingrid Goude 
By MARK McLAUGHLIN Projects Manager 
The enrollment in 1956 was only 5,400, and all men at that. But the students then loved their football just as much as they -lo today. 
Hopes and reality were dif­ferent things that season, though, as the Irish won only two out of ten ball games, even with All-American quarter­back Paul Hornung churning out the yards. "He does every­thing! " claimed the sportswriters of the nation. 
But even Hornung couldn't make up for the lack of expe­rience of Pat Brennan's squad. The student body remained supportive, but the vaunted "Spirit of Notre Dame" seemed to be in trouble. 
But even though the team wasn't doing so well, the class of '57 still had a lot to cheer about. The new LaFortune Stu­dent Center, a conversion and renovation of the old Science Hall, was a favorite place to play pool, dance, and generally loaf. Off-campus life was rol­ling as well, although automobiles were forbidden property to stude,.,i.s, despite the b2st efforts of the Student Senate. 
Great things were afoot in the world, with the election of Ike over Adlai Stevenson and with the Russian occupation of Poland and Hungary. Anti­Communist sentiment was high, though the death of Sen. Joe McCarthy in 1957 signalled a cooling of the "Better Dead Than Red" sentiment. 

Notre Dame was doing its part to save the world. The Pa­triot of the Year award was given to John F. Kennedy, who came to campus to accept the award and speak to the stu­dents. Thomas A. Dooley was honored by the Jaycees, and two Notre Dame students went halfway acr,,ss the world to help his efforts to provide medi­cal attention to more than c;oo,ooo Vietnamese fleeing the scourge of Communism. 
Moral issues were also im­portant topics of the day. Ra­cial desegregation was a hot topic, as priests who took black children to school were some­times stoned by whites. In­creasingly graphic forms of en­tertainment were also a problem, as the film "Baby Doll" was banned under pain of mortal sin by Francis Car­dinal Spellman of New York. An editorial in the Notre.Dame Scholastic urged students not to see the film, or "if you are too weak of moral fiber to resist, please leave your Notre Dame jacket at home." 
The cold South Bend winter was warmed up by the visits of 

Photo courtesy of DOME 
Forward Tom Hawkins pulls down a rebound for the Irish. While the football team had a lackluster 2-8 season in 1956, the basket­ball team shone, earning a bid to the NCAA Tourney and winning 
•


On behalf of the Notre Dame 
student body, we would like i 
to congratulate Fr. Ned on his i

i 50th reunion and all of the 
returning alumni during this
•i :•

reunion weekend. 
Thank you for your continued •: support. : 
• •i 
~a<lll~~a<III~.........~ J
........................................ 
Miss Marian McKnight (Miss never forget. two of three games there. 
...................................1 
America), and Miss Ingrid Goude (Miss Sweden). 
The Irish hoopsten, ..·ere also hot, with a record of 20-8 that include<.i an upset of nationally­ranked Brigham Young Uni­versity and two NCAA Tourn­ament wins at Lexington in the Midwest Regionals. The Irish beat Miami of Ohio in the tour­ney before losing to another Cinderella team known as Mic­higan State. Notre Dame then beat Pittsburgh in the consola­tion round. 
The Notre Dame fencing squad also did well, winning 15 matches in a row at one point in the season and earning ana­tional ranking. 
Social life was still going strong, with the student trip to Pittsburgh and performances by Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington. The annual Mardi Gras celebration packed LeFortune with more that 1300 students for a night of enter­tainment and fun. 
The highlight of the senior so­cial season, the Senior Ball, was well attended. More than 800 senior men and their dates assembled in the Drill Hall for a hot night of beautiful people and dancing. The ball was fol­lowed by the class trip to the Indiana Dunes and a Saturday night dinneDtlance. A class benediction ended the weekend that many students would 

The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 7 






1962: 
Space race, catnpus developtnent quicken 
By CHRIS JULKA the realm of science fiction by Assistant News Editor solemnly resolving to put a man on the moon. Recall a time before Presi­In an era in which the first dent John F. Kennedy was as­Irish Catholic ever to become 
sassinated, before the drug President was turning the epidemic, before the bombings White House into "Camelot,"and protest marches on college Theodore Hesburgh was busy campuses, before the Notre reigning in his tenth year under Dame football team lost the the Golden Dome. At the same shamrocks from their helmets. time that JFK was embarkingThis was the academic year on the New Frontier, Hesburgh 
1961-62. As of yet the United was launching a program of States was still stretching its rapid campus expansion. muscles confidently in its new Today's Stepan Center,role as undisputed leader of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library Western World. Despite the (formerly the Memorial Li­
quagmire in Korea, the country brary), Math and Computer rapidly in academic prestige, magazine. In his hands was an was still undergoing a massive Center and Radiation Labora­becoming noticed as more than opened book with a picture of growth spurt known as the tory were all rolls of newly just a collection of buildings the Virgin and the Christchild "Baby Boom," "Toyota" and proposed blueprints or rapidly next to a football stadium. On on one page facing rows of "Honda" were still names for growing jungles of girders at Feb. 9, 1962 Father Theodore Quantum Theory equations on inferior automobiles, and the this time. Martin Hesburgh, C.S.C., ap-the opposite page, symbolizing government had just entered Notre Dame was also rising peared on the cover of "Time" what the media perceived as a 

Here For The Game . • • The Weekend ... The Day? Running Short of Cash? 
Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1st Source Bank says, "Welcome," and invites you to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a half of the Notre Dame Campus: 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


~ Resource and CIRRUS ... ~source CIRRUS long on convenience when you're short on cash! -.aank 
.....mo.• F OIC 
Notre 
Unique Sandwich Menu: Beer and Wine 
Great reasons Ca•naiAbDosphere 
•Ital ian sausage •Gyros 
to stop in at Macri's Dell PLUS: 
•Italian 
meatball • Croossants Football Catering (TaUgaten) 

• 
Beef and company •Old Chicago 


3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches 
•and many morel Meat and Cheese Trays Special Boxed Lunches 
Large Screen Satellite TV 
University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 
Mon-Thurs 11 :30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11 :30-11 :00 Sunday 12:00-10:00 


new attempt of a Catholic uni­
versity to achieve academic 
excellence. 
But with this age of unprece­
dented progress came unprece­
dented perils. America had 
recently become the target of 
Soviet ICBMs. The February­
March edition of the 1962 Notre 
Dame Alumnus featured a 
graduate who spent over 116 
hours in a fallout shelter as 
part of an experiment ap­
proved by local Civil Defense 
authorities. 
The U.S. was also just emerg­
ing from the decade of McCar­
thyism in which America was 
still trying to recover from 
having "lost" China and Eas­
tern Europe. 
On Jan. 9, 1962, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona gave a speech on campus on the sig­nificance of the struggle be­tween Communism and the West. He contended that whereas the West recognizes that man has an immortal es­sence, Marxists regard man as a thing, as a "belly to filled." The audience whic9 jammed the Engineering Auditorium beyond capacity gave him a standing ovation. 
If the struggle against Com­munism was not going so well, however, neither was the struggle of the Irish on the gridiron. Hired three years back, head coach Joe Kuharich would still find a winning season to be out of his grasp as his team ended the year with a 5-5 record. Despite this, the Irish were not without their flashes of brilliance, as in their cliff-hanger victory over the mighty Syracuse. Losing 14-15 with only 17 seconds remain­ing, sophomore Frank Budka maneuvered the team to within field goal range. With only three seconds left, Joe Perkowski's kick fell short of the uprights. Luckily, however because he and George Sefcik had been roughed by charging linemen, he was granted a second attempt fifteen yards closer with no time left. This time his kick was good giving Notre Dame one of its most controversial and exciting vic­tories ever. 
That devious dance of sin and seduction, the Twist, also be­came the subject of a lively debate in the Student Senate. After deliberating for two hours, the Student Senate decided finally not to pass a proposal which would have banned this recent incursion on morals. 
The Observer 
1937: 
1937 in 
pictures 

(Clockwise from upper left) 
1) Couples enjoy the Senior Ball. 2,3,4) While the football team had an average year, beating then-number-one Northwestern but tying USC, the basketball team took 20 of 
23. 5) The original St. Edward's hall is demolished. 6) Several Notre Dame men board the lasf streetcar back to campus. 
AU photos courtesy of DOMt: 
The Fifty Year Club prepares t 
By KEVIN IJ""'''"'~"­Editor-in-Chief 
It has been 50 past five decades change, but the strong. 
Over 112 memories of life they are inducted at this weekend's 
"I well remem in the fall of 1933 Father Edmund J who went on to president for the 
"I was really everybody else, so knickers, which thought they were I was warned building that I would get tossed office was bookshelves as he 
The campus course, much cinder and sparce. But the lived here. 
"We thought ( said Joyce. ' bigger than lives, even then; 
Alumni Weekend Special Issue -pages 8 -9 

By KEVIN BECKER Editor-in-Chief 
It has been 50 years, a half of a century. Over these past five decades Notre Dame, and the world, has seen change, but the spirit of the class of 1937 still is going strong. 
Over 112 members of the class of 1937 will share the memories of life at Notre Dame in the mid-1930s as they are inducted into Notre Dame's Fifty Year Club at this weekend's reunion. 
"I well remember my arrival on this campus back in the fall of 1933 as a 16-year-old freshman," said Father Edmund Joyce, a member of the class of 1937 who went on to lead Notre Dame as executive vice­president for the past 35 years. 
"I was really about two years younger than just about everybody else, so young that I arrived here wearing knickers, which were in vogue in South Carolina. We thought they were the eat's pajamas... (but) I think I was warned before I got to the entrance of the main building that I better get out of those knickers or I would get tossed in the lake," continued Joyce, whose office was cluttered with boxes and lined with empty bookshelves as he prepared to head into retirement. 
The campus that Joyce saw that first day was, of course, much different than today. The walkways were cinder and buildings, by today's standards, were sparce. But the place was still home for those who lived here. 
"We thought (the facilities) were great then ..." said Joyce. "They seemed great to us, it was much bigger than anything we had ever experienced in our lives, even then; so Notre Dame seemed beautiful at the time." 
But the times of the middle '30s were the times of the Great Depression. Jobs were hard to find and often non-existent; businesses were failing all around the country; students were often dropping out of school because of financial difficulty. The students of Notre Dame in the 1930s were lucky, and they knew it. 
"Most of us were very serious about our education. We were here during the depth of the Depression; this was a very serious time in the life of the nation. Any of us that got into college at that time felt grateful," said Joyce. 
Even with the atmosphere of the economic times and the obligation to study, the men of Notre Dame still found time to have some fun. Every weekend the house was packed at Washington Hall for a movie that was often six months old but enjoyed, nevertheless, if only for the opportunity to get together and make wisecracks at the screen. 
Athletics were another opportunity for entertain­ment. In fall of '36, Elmer Layden's 11 were doing an admirable job of keeping the Notre Dame football traditon alive five years after Knute Rockne's death. While in the winter, George Koegan and his Irish cagers assembled one of the best roundball records in the country by going 20-3. Said Koegan about his basketball squad, "(It was) the greatest team I ever coached." 
Varsity teams were only one facet of athletics back at Notre Dame in '37. Almost everyone was playing some sport to keep himself entertained. The only prob­lem facing students was a lack of facilities. 
Said Joyce, "I had to wake up at 5 in the morning if I wanted to use one of the handball courts on campus. There were only two and they were in use all of the time." 
Besides having easier access to the handball courts, there is a major difference between the present student population and that of 1937 --women. 
''At that time I don't think we had more than three or four women secretaries even on the campus. So you hardly even saw a woman unless you made the trip across the highway to Saint Mary's. And the vast majority of us diq not do that," said Joyce. 
In 1972 the University went coed and, to the surprise of many who doubted the prudence of that decision, has thrived ever since. According to Joyce, who was outspokenly doubtful about the decision, the change is 
one of the biggest Notre Dame has seen in his 50 years as an alumnus. Its reception, however, has been fairly positive from the members of his class. , . 
"There·is not much that many of them say, he said, "because some of them have had daughters that have gone here." 
In the fall of 1988, Notre Dame women will have two new dormitories in which to live, a far cry from the housing of the past. In 1937 Brownson Hall.was ~ lB:rge bedroom on the third floor of the mam bUildmg. Housing only freshmen, this dormitory had a curtain, for "privacy," and a desk around every bed. There were other dorms; Dillon Hall, according to Joyce, was the "Gold Coast" at that time with its private, spacious rooms. 
Men switched halls every year back in the 30s and got to know most of their classmates. And that is the way many bonds and friendships were formed between the members of the class, bonds and friendships that will be renewed this weekend at the golden reunion of the class of '37. 

i!lniurrsitp of jlotre 1!lame bu I.ac 
The Fifty Year Club 


.Jn rrcognition of bis status as lopal alumnu!l in bi!; serb1.:e to ~oll. countrP anb fellowman, tbt 11nibtr1litp of ,flotre Dame -conftr!l upon its btlobtb son 
in tbe ~olbtn Jubilee !}tar of his grabuat1on th1s 
~pecial (!Citation 
tHllfn at rfJt llnonrrsot' ol .flotrr J:lamr .fl,olrr i)amr. lnboana 
IUtt 


The Fifty Year Club consists of all living graduates from Notre Dame who have seen their. 50th year as an alumnus. New members, this year all surviving members of the. ~lass o~ '~7, will be honored at a special ceremony, where they will be given a patch and a certificate s1milar to the ones pictured here. One of the more well-known inductees this year, Father Edmund Joyce, shares his thoughts on Notre Dame in 1937 and today in the story above. 

The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 10 

The ObserveDFile photo Several students and faculty members march in front of the Morris Inn in reaction to the Patriot of the Year award, given to Army General William Westmoreland. Westmoreland con­strued the award to be representative of American support for the war in Vietnam. 
1967: 
Bar raids and dirty dining hall 
KATHY SCARBECK Features Writer 
In 1967 Julie f\.;drews was the biggest attraction at the box of­fice, a McDonald's hamburger cost only 18 cents, and Notre Dame bars were being raided by exci~e police. Some things never change. 
During a year marked by anti-war protests, the "mod" craze, and acid-tripping hippie!=, even Notre Dame was easing its rules up a bit. In Sep­tember .>f that year housing of­ficials ga·1e student 21 and over the :priviledge of being able to llV{~ in apartments. Previously students who wanted to live off ca&npus had to reside in homes that had come complete with "house mothers" who set their own rules and enforced those of the university. 
Those of you whv have practi­cally worn out your Senior Bar card will be interested in knowing that 1967 was also the year that members of the senior class were allowed to run this establishment. There were a few catches --dancing wasn't allowed and students had to be seated while drinking. 
The university did remain firm on some issues. Women were still not allowed in men's dorm rooms, because of the "social repercussions of enter­taining a girl in a bedroom." The University also feared the disruption it would cause in a men's dormitory, "which is in­terpreted by many university officials as a men's club," as one student commented. 
At a time when many of the students caught in this past year's bar raids weren't even born, underage patrons of the now defunct Corby's Tavern were cited by excise police, reportedly having used false means of identification to gain entrance. Itwas events such as this that led undercover excise personnel to patrol the city's bars, gambling spots, and places of prostitution. 
A bit farther from campus, students were making their opinions known during anti­war protests. In October of that year demonstrators in Wast­ington, D.C. marched from the Lincoln Memorial to the Pent­agon, cursing the military and calling them "tools of Wall Street." A Notre Dame contin­gent of 110 was in attendance during the event but never really functioned as a unit. 
Anti-war demonstrations even made an appearance on campus. At the largest stu­denMaculty protest in over three years, 75 people carried signs at the Morris Inn in protest of the Patriot of the Year award, given to General William Westmoreland. 
And students were still com­plaining about the dining hall. 
The complaints were more about the service than the food, dirty trays and tables being the biggest offenders. However, students did have a few words to say about the food. They hated "weird cereals like Co­Co Krispies and Captain Crunch" as well as such com binations as liver and lamb. 
Students were still makiog road trips to out of town f•JOt­ball games. The Observer, the new newspaper on campus replacing the defunct Voice, tried to guide people in their foray into the Lansing wilder­ness during the weekend of the Michigan State game in f\To­vember A the 1966-67 sea:::on: "There are two types of ptople at Michigan State, the hippies and the straights. The hippies hang out in hippy bars, do hipply dances, and drink hippy drinks. The straights go to the corner bars, drink beer and carouse, talk, and wander around East Lansing." And then there was football. At the end of the 1966 season, Coach Ara Parseghian led the Irish to the number one spot on both the AP and UPI ratings, bring­ing the season to a close with a 51-0 rout over uSC. It was only four years ~arlier that he had stood on the stl)ps of Sorin Hall and pl,;Jged, "I will do everythh1;•_ in my power to bring ::. ~ mnir1g football tradi­tion back to this fine school." 


The Observer 
1972: 
WOMEN!! 
Observer Staff Report 
The year 1972 is one that any current Notre Dame student has little difficulty in remem­bering, for it was the year when perhaps the most important change ever at Notre Dame took place: the decision to ad­mit women to the University was announced. 
The coeducation probl~m had previously attacked in a different direction through merger proposals to Saint Mary's College. In fact, some prospective Saint Mary's stu­dents had been told they would receive degrees from Notre Dame if they attended Saint Mary's. 
Negotiations with Saint Mary's College had been going on for some time before the an­nouncement of the new co­education policy on December 1, 1971. Neither Notre Dame or Saint Mary's officials blamed one another for the collapses in negotiations, one in November and one in February. There were accusations, however, by some members of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees that the board had made unreason­able financial demands of Notre Dame. While consider­able protests went on at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame students were apathetic once the. co­education move was an­nounced. 
Apathetic, that is, until Badin and Walsh were singled out as women's dorms for the fall of 1972. Students put up a fight but realized that someone had to step aside for the women to move in. 
While the merger talks were 
going on, Notre Dame football · was having its usual successful year. Once the bowl bids came out, though. the Irish refused to go to a bowl, citing low point 
production and a lack of bowl 
spirit. The Irish ended their 
season with a 28-8 loss to LSU, 
the worst loss ever under Ara 
Parseghian. 

On the basketball front, a 
young, fashion-conscious Dig­
ger Phelps tried to take the 
reins of the program and 
produce some wins. What he 
ended up producing was losses 
--20 of them --against six wins 
On the brighter side, the 
hockey team just missed the 
WCHA playoffs, and six Notre 
Dame players were drafted in 
the NFL draft. 
A major faculty controversy 
raged on campus over the issue 
of tenured professors, as Uni­
versity Provost James 
Burtchaell asked all deans to 
maintain a two-thirds quota of 
tenured professors. Fears were 
expressed that potential appli­
cants would be scared away, 
and faculty letters lambasted 
Burtchaell in The Observer for 
not allowing any faculty con­
trol of academic matters. 
Student activism was alive 
and well in 1971 and 1972 con­
cerning a wide range of 
campus issues. The proposed 
merger was one of the more 
publicized issues, but students 
also rallied against the tighten­
ing of drinking and parietals 
regulations. More than 600 stu­
dents gathered at the Center 
for Continuing Education to 
protest an attempt by the Stu­
dent Life Council to impose sanctions on the student body. The sanctions were eventually tabled and forgotten. 
Students protested again when a decision was made to make the beginning of the next academic year a week earlier. The Academic Council eventu­ally reversed their decision. 
On the political side, the Mock Democratic Convention increased student awareness of political issues at the national level, as approximately 1,000 students participated during the convention's three days in Stepan Center. This awareness was all the more important with the upcoming election and the delay in the Vietnam pul­lout. 
But the biggest political up­set of the year was the student body elections. The Prime Mover, R. Calhoun Kersten, ran himself and Uncanriidate the Cat on a platform of oligarchy, consistent drug quality, and distribution of scholarships by lottery. Mter resigning the night before the runoff election, Kersten won by a decisive vote, partially due to student dissatisfaction with student government. The Prime Mover proceeded to coronate Himself on the steps of the Administration Building, hold an Inaugural Ball, hold a "King for a Day" contest, and walk across St. Joseph's Lake. Kersten eventually left his of­fice to his cat, saying that he "didn't see anything coming up that Uncandidate couldn't han­dle." 
THIS BUD'S FOR YOU: 

ENJOY REUNION '87 
BUDWEISERt!>• KING Of BEERS4!>• ANHEUSER·BUSCH. INC • ST LOUIS 
Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 11 

The Observell'File photo Student Body President elections took a bizarre turn in 1972 when King R. Calhoun Kersten and Uncandidate the Cat, running on a platform of oligarchy, won in a landslide. Calhoun, who had withdrawn from the election the night before, went on to declare martial law and push for studenl ·ppresentatives on the Board of Trustees. 
l\lloney 
continued from page 1 
Dame will be visibly reinforced with a new generation of Holy Cross priest scholars," said Sexton. He cited the number of students pursuing vocations now at Moreau Sem~ary who have post graduate degrees and "are ready to take their places among the faculty." 
In five years, 40 percent of the undergraduate student body will be women. Of that student body, 97 percent will live on campus, according to Sexton. 
The student body should benefit from $35.5 million which is targeted for enhance­ment of student life, including new residence halls, social facilities and student life pro­grams. 
Graduate students should benefit from the programs which are designed to enhance graduate education and re­search. 
"Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment" is the fifth major fund-raising endeavor for the University since 1960, and its $300 million goal exceeds the total of $289.6 million raised in the four previous campaigns. 
During Hesburgh's presidency, which began in 1952, Nctre Dame's endowment has gone from $9 million to more than $400 million, and an­nual voluntary support has in­creased from $1.1 million to $48.3 million. 
"The vision of Father Res­burgh will be fulfilled, and Notre Dame will be positioned solidly in greatness and ready for whatever the twenty-first century will bring," Sexton said. 
"If we succeed in funding all of the priorities of this cam­paign that's being operated at this moment, we will have all of this, and this will all come ~~ ... ;s," he said. "I guarantee 
.·. ~'
•· 


The Carriage House Dining Room 
24460 Adams Road South Bend (219) 272-9220 
Open Tuesday-Saturday Hours 5:00-9:30 pm Reservations Recommended 
-


The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 12 
1977: 
Brrrrr! Life was cold and very wild 
Observer Staff Report 
Cold, cold, cold. 
That's probably what the class of 1977 will remember most, as the winter of 1976-77 broke records for snowfall in Indiana, with over 104 inches in South Bend. Snow even caused the closing of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for the first time in living memory. 
The years 1976 and 1977 sound strangely like modern times as far as student social life goes. Seven students known as "the Sorin Seven" were thrown off campus by Dean of Students James Roemer without any warning, according to the stu­dents. 
Two Dillon freshmen were dismissed from the University for falling asleep after a wild party in a Lyons room. They were dismissed after waiving their rights in disciplinary proceedings, believing that they would receive light penalties. 
Twelve Notre Dame students were injured when a Black Cul­tural Arts dance overflowed its space in LaFortune Student Center, leaving almost 200 local residents milling outside. The crowd then moved south, attacking students and break­ing classroom windows before being dispersed by police. 
The off-campus scene was not much prettier. South Bend police cracked down on the local Corby-Eddy area bars after problems with "noise and public nuisances" caused Mike Casey, student body vice pres­ident, to form student cleanup crews to alleviate local resi­dent complaints. Corby's nearly closed down for good be­cause of an ownership struggle, then reopened under new man­agement. 
While social life was taking a turn for the worse, the sports teams of Notre Dame were up to their usual standard of ex­cellence. Dan Devine's football team was a success, with a hard-fought win over Alabama and a Gator Bowl victory over Penn State. The fencing team was outstanding, winning their first national championship after a fence-off with unde­feated New York University. 
But the highlight of the sports year was the basketball team. The class of 1977 saw Digger Phelps coach his way into four straight NCAA Tournament appearances, but the last one was perhaps the most dramat­ic. 
The loss of Adrian Dantley The Nclw Keenan Revue made its first appearance in Novemher of 1976 in Washington Hall, offering the wide range of talent ·1nd entertainment that has made H,•.kets to the Revue increasingly difficult to come by ove1·lhe yems. This year's revue played to a J•acked O'Laughlin Auditorium 


for three nights.  
the year before made upset wins over Maryland, UCLA, and then-number-one San  Student activism was alive and well in 1977. The most con­troversial demonstration was  removal of dining hall wastes by farmer George Brown, who used the garbage to feed his  
Francisco seem all the more remarkable. The more than 3,000 students awaiting the team's return from UCLA and the award of the Most Valuable Player award in the San Fran­cisco game to the Notre Dame student body indicate the high level of student support the cage crew enjoyed.  the sit-in staged by black stu­dents on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building, which was intended to increase stu­dent and official awareness of the use of "subtle innuendos of separatist tactics employed by certain departments and-Or sections of the University." Students also were in­ pigs. Students felt there was an "ecological advantage" to the Brown system. In the big picture, the Cam­paign for Notre Dame reached its halfway point in its drive to procure $130 million for the University endowment. Gary Gilmore became the first con­vict to be executed since 1967.  
Although the team lost in the  strumental, with the efforts of  And perhaps most importantly,  
tournament to North Carolina, the eventual second-place finis­her, the 20 wins were more than enough to establish that Notre Dame was a national basket­ball power.  Student Body President Mike Gassman, in bringing a men's laundry facility on campus to provide an alternative to the University laundry service. They also championed the  President Jimmy Carter won a close election race over Gerald Ford in November of 1976, and came to Notre Dame as com­mencement speaker for the class of 1977.  

WELCOME BACK 
NOTRE DAME 
Enjoy 
ALUMNI 
Trade-mark® 
~" 
CLASSIC 

"diet Coke" and "diet Coca-Cola" are trade-marks cf The Coca-Cola Company. 

The Observer 
Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 13 
1982: 
Ted out, Gerry era in? 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
It shouldn't be be too hard for 
the youngsters among the 
alumni to remember 1982. 
It was supposed to be the end 
of the Hesburgh era and the 
beginning of the Faust era, but 
it was neither. 
Early in the school year, tbe Board of Trustees created the position of chancellor for Fa­ther Hesburgh who was to retire as president in June 1982. But the trustees changed their minds and asked Hesburgh to stay on for another five years. 
Gerry Faust won his first game, and the Irish went to the top of the polls amid high hopes and expectations. But the Irish quickly fell back to earth, finishing a frustrating season at 5-6. 
Digger Phelps made the headlines with his allegations of cheating in college basket­ball, but his team rated only agate type as they finished a less than mediocre 10-17. 
Not all was lost on the sport­ing front, however, as the soc­cer team made the national rankings for the first time, finishing with a perfect regular season record. 
On campus, students protested nuclear war and con­tinued their boycott of Nestle. 
Students moved into 
Pasquerilla East and West for 
the first time. Students moved 
back into St. Edward's Hall 
after the completion of renova­
tions which repaired the fire 
damage the dorm suffered in 
the summer of 1980. 
On the south edge of campus, 
the new ND mound at the cor­
ner of Angela and Notre Dame 
Ave. was reported destroyed 
by a stray automobile the first 
week of school. But it survived 
to spark rumors that it was in 
fact a burial mound for un­
tenured professors, a Mt. Sinai 
for football plays, or an MX 
missle silo. 

Much further past the edge of campus, Britain and Argen­tina went to war over a tiny group up islands -the Falklands. Reagan was in the middle of his first term. Lech W alesa and Solidarity clashed with the Polish government. For the first time, a woman, Sandra Day O'Connor, donned a black Supreme Court robe. 
Back on campus, the author of the comic strip "Molarity" anticipated his impending graduation by killing off his characters. The whole thing, however, was revealed as a dream in time for Jim, Dion, Mitch, Cheryl and Chuck to graduate and then return with the rest of the class of 1982 for their fifth year reunion. 

REMEMBER THESE 1987 EVENTS ON VIDEOTAPE Two commemorative videotapes I are now available for purchase. (1) COMMENCEMENT AND "THE NOTRE DAME MOMENT'' The videotape of the May 9 satellite telecast will include the 16-minute retrospective on Father Hesburgh's career, "Hesburgh: Priest of God,"Educational Media narrated by Walter Cronkite, as well as Father Hesburgh's valedictory. The Commencement portion of the videotape will run approximately one half-hour.Univ. of Notre Dame VHS or Beta: $24.95 P.O. Box 542 \ (2) BACCAlAUREATE MASS AND SELECTED CAMPUS SCENESNotre Dame, IN 46556 ON COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND (219) 239-5456 The main portion of the videotape will be the Baccalaureate Mass, con­celebrated by about 50 priests with Father Hesburgh as principle cele­brant. This inspiring event took place in the Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center on Saturday, May 16. The video will also highlight some on-campus activities of Commencement Weekend and will be about two hours in length. VHS, Beta, or Bmm videotape: $34.95 Call or write for an order blank or send a check and Information Indicating which tape(s) you wish to order AND the desired tape format VHS, Beta or 8mm. Please allow 6 to 8 weeks for delivery.  

r
'l 
.) 
The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue-page 14 
!\ 
What is it that led you back to Notre Dame? 
Father Robert Griffin 
LeHers to a Lonely God 
Who or what have you come back to see? "I want to see if my initials are where I left them, on the wall over the urinals at Bridget's," my nep­hew, Bob Griffin the Lesser, '76, would say. Since his initials are my initials too, I'm sensi­tive where they appear. I researched the problem years ago, though not personally, since I've never been in Bridget's. They're not to be seen, though my nephew Bob feels they're waiting for him, if he peels off a layer of paint. But why are you here? 
Places shrink in size, when you've been away from them, and so do people. The Dome, as you may remember it, is the size of St. Peter's. When you come back to look at it, it's slightly larger than life-sized. It gets bigger if you stick with it and allow it to grow on you as a faith-symbol. Sacred Heart Church seems more or less cathedral-like, depending on where you have been attend-
Green 
continued from page 16 
day with 4 completions on 14 attempts for 51 yards. Graham, meanwhile, completed 7-of-15 passes for 107 yards and an in­terception. 
On the other side of the ball, Terry Andrysiak found the day a bit rougher. While complet­ing 12-of-29 attempts for 140 yards and one interception, Andrysiak was harassed most of the day and was sacked five times, three by Darrel 'Flash' Gordon. He directed his squad on 50-yard, nine-play drive capped off by a Braxton Banks three-yard scoring run in the second quarter. 
"It's the first time we've ever had a football team where the starting quarterback's team loses by 17 points -which con­cerns me. (But) I think you get there and try to make things happen. Our pass rush lanes are much better than last year, and (Andrysiak) didn't have an awful lot of time. 
"Defensively, I thought we pressured the passer a little bit better, but it's hard to tell when you go against one another. I thought the secondary played the ball very, very well." 
Indeed both secondaries did turn in standout performances. Green's Brandy Wells came up with an interception and a fumble recovery, while Gold's Marve Spence, who had the un­enviable task of covering Tim Brown, broke up three passes. Gold's Mike Tafelski came up with a diving interception after Corny Southall deflected a flea­flicker pass intended for Brown at the Gold six with Green up 14-7 
The Green broke to 14-0 lead in the first quarter, as Green followed his one-yard dive with a nine-yard bolt. In the second half, Green added to its 17-7 lead as Pernell Taylor, who gained 16 yards while playing the first half for the Gold, went off left tackle for a three-yard score. Taylor finished with 21 yards for the Green in the second half. 


ing Mass. If you have stayed away from church for a while, you may feel Sacred Heart suf­focating you like a narrow­minded Catholic's point of view. If you're a Sunday regu­lar at some assembly-line Got­hic structure that feels like a gymnasium built in the Fifties, as ticky-tacky as a housing de­velopment, Sacred Heart m'ay delight you with the lovely old space it offers you to pray in. 
People change too. Maybe they're almost the same, ex­cept that now they are more cautious or not as sure of them­selves. Maybe the zest for living that was so charming in a 20-year old now looks like a good-ol' boy's club-manners on initiation night at the lodge. You will check out tbe altera­tions time has made in your classmates, and hope they don't notice how fancy you are with the footwork when they start asking questions about the job, your marriage, your jogging, your golf game or any other game in which you've continued to keep score. You will doubtlessly go to call on your old rector and other good pals as reliable landmarks at Notre Dame. Perhaps, as you now admit, you were a sad sack or a wimp as an undergradu­ate. But you've finally become a big shot with great expecta­tions ; and you could re-gild the Dome with the gold-edge off your credit cards. 
Dropping in on the digs of the dear old padre you once relied on like a truant officer, you find he's kept the same dorm room, carrying on in his usual avun­cular style, as though nothing has changed for him in a de­cade except possibly his shirt. You may begin to feel sad at the comparison between your life and his. You think: "Some fellows, especially if they're younger, take charge of their lives. Others get stuck in the same dull rut." You're entitled to be so proud of yourself that you're on the verge of the sin that made the angels fall; and you're entitled to have regrets that the guru in the rocker never made it as Pope. But never, if you value decency, let him see that you're feeling sorry for him, since you have no need to do so. Never lose 
control of your emotion to the point that you start giving him a pep-talk on how there should be more to a priest's life than hanging around a dorm, cheer­ing up the Notre Dame fresh­men. Don't, for heaven's sake, start throwing money at him on your way out the door. A con­tribution might be gratefully accepted, if it's handed over with the dignity of an act of worship. Don't treat an elder as though he were a maitre d' who's bringing a note from you to the cigarette girl. 
Every old grad, revisiting the halls of ivy, should be familiar with The Cherry Or­chard. Chekhov's play, when you see it staged, seems very static. Nothing, on the surface, is happening to these ineffec­tual people. They're not aware that the old social order, sym­bolized by the cherry trees, is on its death bed, and that their self-indulgent, leisured life­style is about to end. The play concludes with the sound of axes destroying the cherry or­chard, to make way for a proj­ect sponsored by an upwardly mobile, lower class promoter. The mood of The Cherry Or­chard is elegiac. It could teach you that the drama in a life stays hidden. Under the quiet appearances of things, a revo­lution could be starting. The wheeling and dealing of tycoons may amount to no more than trivial pursuits. "They also serve who only stand and wait," wrote the blind Milton; who, while stand­ing and waiting, became a great poet, and discovered his soul. 
So what did you come back to find? Some whisper in the wind that you left behind you as an echo? Some glimpse of yourself as you were before the lost childhood? Some ghost of yesterday, when you tramped the campus in search of an identity'? Remember what R. 
L. Stevenson wrote about the lost garden of the lost child­hood: ''... For it is but a child of aili'That lingers in the garden there." Or what A. E. wrote: "In the lost childhood of Judas, Christ was betrayed." I hope you find whatever you came back for. Perhaps. coming 
back, you had no expectations, and all this time something has been waiting for you to claim it: faith, hope, love, grace, friendship, salvation. God bless you. Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 
Sched3 
continued from page 5 
1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
* Fundraising for Your Local Non-profit Organization: How To. Joseph G. Sandman, Director of Development. Center for Continuing Education. 
1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
* The Vietnam War on Film; Real to Reel. Robert M. Slabe ('55, '61 PhD), Associate Professor of English. Center for Continuing Education. 
2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Hockey Alumni Reception. All hockey alumni are invited to an informal get· together hosted by Coach Lefty Smith and staff. A.C.C. lobby of Gate 4 and Coach Smith's office. 
2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 

* Glee Club Alumni Open House. Carl L. Stam, Assistant Professor of Music and Director of Choral Activities. All former Glee Club members are invited to an informal get-together in Room 115 of the Crowley Hall of Music. (All former Glee Club members are invited to come up to the dais at the conclusion of the dinner this evening to lead the entire reunion gather­ing in some traditional Notre Dame songs.) 
2:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
* Tandem bicycles again available for campus touring at Stepan Center. 
2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
* Tennis Men's Doubles, Women's and Mixed Doubles Tournament (located be­

hind the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center). Registration at the tennis courts. Check your folder for explanation of tennis events. 2:30p.m. 
* Tour of the Snite Museum of Art. 
3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* Book-signing session with Edward A. Fischer ('37, '61MA) Professor Emeritus. American Studies; Robert P. Schmuhl ('70), Assistant Professor, American Studies. Hammes Notre Dame Book Store. 
3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
* 
Ethics in Business. Rev. Oliver F. Wil­liams, C. S.C. ('61, '69MTh), Associate Provost and Associate Professor of Man­agement. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 3:00p.m. 

* 
Campus Guided Tour by bus. Pickups at the Morris Inn an Stepan Center. 3:30p.m. 

* 
Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting. Center for Social Concerns. Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C. 


3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
* Open House and Reception for Foreign Study Program Alumni. Foreign Study Programs Office, Room 420, Administration Building. 
3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
* 
Between Two Worlds: African Literature from Colonialism to Independence. Donald 

C. 
Sniegowski ('56), Associate Professor of English. Center for Continuing Education. 


3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
• Peace in Our Time. John H. Yoder, 


Hospitality and Reasonable Prices 
Welcome back Notre Dame Alumni 
Now accepting reservations for Alumni Weekend 
Mon.· Thun.: 11:30om-10pm 

Bar open 7doya a­
.frl. ·Sal.: 11:30om-11pm 

130 Dixie Highway Soulh 
Sun.•Hollclovl 

Soulh Bend. Indiana 
11:30om·10pm 

Hoppy Houf: Spm-7pm o. u.& 11 ...,. • .._.a......,...., 
fo< carry oul 
Of 
r.-vatlons 
212·131 

Professor of Theology Center for Continu­ing Education. 4:00p.m. 
* 
Campus Guided Tour by bus. Pickups at the Morris Inn and Stepan Center. 4:00p.m. 

* 
The Kilty Band will perform at the Refreshment Tents on the North Quad. 4:45p.m. 

* 
Shuttle buses will be available to transport you before and after the evening activities. From 4:45 p.m. to 5:25 p.m. buses will stop at the Morris Inn and reunion residence halls for transportation to the South Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center for the AII·Ciasses Reunion Mass. 


• For those wishing to walk, we suggest you follow the Kilty Band to the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 5:00p.m. 
* 
Pre-service music (provided by the Symphony Brass Quinta and the Alumni Reunion Choir) begins at 5:00 p.m. in the South Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 5:30p.m. 

* 
Reunion Concelebrated Mass for All Classes --Principal Celebrant: University's President-Elect, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, 


C.S.C. ('63) South Dome, Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center -enter at Gate 10. (This Mass will fulfill your Sunday obliga­tion.) All priests are invited to concelebrate. Celebrants wil meet and receive instruc­tions in Room A-1 B of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center at 5:00p.m. 
Immediately following the Mass: 
* Reunion Banquet Speaker: University President-Elect. Rev. Edward A Malloy, 
C.S.C. ('63) South Dome of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Presenta­tion of the Edward Frederick Sarin Award to Dr. J. Philip Clarke, FACP, '44. 
• All former Glee Club members are invited 
to come up to the dais at the conclusion of the dinner to lead the entire reunion gat­hering in some traditional Notre Dame songs. 
• After the Banquet, shuttle buses will provide service to the Morris Inn and reunion residence halls. 
9:00 p.m. to 1 :00 a.m. 
* Reunion Dance. Concourse. Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Cash bar will be available. 
• After the dance, shuttle buses will pro­vide service to the Morris Inn and reunion residence halls. 
9:30 p.m. to 1 :30 a.m. 
* Refreshment tents reopen. (Late evening snacks at 11 :00 p.m.) 
SUNDAY, JUNE 7,1987 

7:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. 
* Full Breakfast will be served in the North Dining Hall. 
12:00 Noon 
* Checkout time. 

The Observer Alumni Weekend Special Issue -page 15 
-




;A,, 
.;k~/­

Photos by Jim Carroll 
New faces, new places 
While one would expect the people attending any university to ch~nge from year to year, the buildings are supposed to remain the same. But at Notre Dame, the sounds of cranes and jackhammers changing the campus are commonplace. (Clockwise from upper left:) 1) The waters gush forth from the Notre Dame Peace Memorial Fountain in the location of the old Fieldhouse. 
2) and 3) Foundations have been laid and walls are starting to take shape north of the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library, formerly the Memorial Library. The new dormitories, Sigfried Hall and Knott Hall, will house over 500 undergraduate women by the fall of 1988. 4) The skeleton of a new indoor football practice field is growing in the woods east of Jake Kline field. The new facility will include a first-rate indoor track. 5) The Rolfs Aquatic Center, featuring a new 50-meter pool and copious spectator seating, is now open to the public. The Center is an addition to the east side of the Athletic and Convocation Center, now named after Father Edmund P. Joyce. 


S~orts 
Alnmpj Woobpd SQG£jnl Issye -page 16 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN fullot you can tell from a spring game," said Holtz, who
Sports Editor 

watched the game from the 
Irish outside linebacker press box~ "I wasn't down coach Barry Alvarez is a new­there, but I'm told the hitting comer to Head Coach Lou was very good. There were far Holtz's staff, but he resorted to too many penalties (10 for 93 an old Notre Dame ploy in yards between both squads). c·oaching his Blue squad to a But other than the number of M-7 win over the Gold squad in penalties, I thought we played tl)e 57th annual Blue-Game on the type of game that won't get April 26. you beat." 
Or was it the Green-Gold The Green relied on a solid game? Showing he's no ground attack based on Green, stranger to Irish legend, Al­who gained 61 yards on 15 varez had his charges put on carries and scored twice, and the green jerseys before taking tailback and fullback Anthony the field. The psych ploy Johnson, who also had 61 yards seemed to have an effect, as on 12 carries. Their task was the newly named Green team made easier by running behind took the opening kickoff and the blocking of Chuck Lanza, marched 75 yards to take a 7-0 Tom Freeman and Marty Lip­lead on a Mark Green one-yard pincott -all of whom should be dive. in the starting lineup come next 
From there, the Green went fall. on to control the game on both The Green squad also got sides of the ball. The Green solid jobs at quarterback from wracked up 371 yards of total Steve Belles and Pete Graham. offense (213 on the ground) Belles led the team on two while limiting the Gold to 167 touchdown drives, while yards of total offense and only Graham dir~dt-1 one drive for 
2:1 yards rushing. While those ~iY. and another 'Nhich resulted numbers may seem over­in a Reggie Ho ;ield goal form The Observeri.Joann Whitfield i I whelming, Holtz downplayed 42 yards out. B(.lles finished the Anthony Johnson rushes towards the line in this year's Blue-Gold game, which kept its name if 
the result. not its colors. Dennis Corriga~a has the details from the annual spring clash at left. "I don't think there's an aw-
see GREEN, page 14

I Summary by position for the 1987 Fighting Irish squad 
t By MARTY STRASEN .Also in th<' ~l'i >h quarterback playing on a rehabilitated knee season making the transition 
f Assistant Sports Editor h:.:.nt is Tony Rice, who had to but carried the ball as the from tailback to fullback. DEFENSE sit out the '86 campaign under spring progresst>d Meanwhile, senior Pernell Here's a summary of the the provisions of Proposition Taylor and Sophomore Defensive Line -The Irish prospects, by position, for the 48. Green, a 6-foot, 183-pound Braxston Banks had outstand­return only Mike Griffin to the 
starting jobs on next fall's junior, led the Irish last yt!ar ing springs. Each rushed for defensive line, but his status is Fighting Irish: with 406 yards, picked up where better than 200 yards from the questionable following January \\ Tailbacks -If Holtz' claim last he left off this spring. The fullback slot in 1986, with the back surgery. Grifffin will be ' OFFENSE year that teams with initials in speedy ex-flanker led the Irish 216-pound Taylor gaining 284 unable to p·lay until August.
their names are tough to beat in both rushing and receiving yards and the 208-pound Banks Senior Jeff Kunz and Matt Din­Quarterbacks -Senior Terry applies to individuals as well, categories in the second spring adding 209. gens are top contenders for Andrysiak has established the Irish will be strong at tail­scrimmage, and is always a slots, while sophomore Jeff himself as the No. 1 signal­back. 'A.J.' and 'D.J.' -Alonzo threat when he gets to the out­Aim had a solid rookie cam­caller this spring. The 6-1, 181-Jefferson and D' Juan Francisco side. Wide Receivers -The Heis­paign. Junior Tom Gorman also pound Andrysiak has always had solid spring practices. The mann Hoopla is beginning has a shot at defensive line. been tabbed as a runner, but senior Jefferson (5-9, 179 Incoming freshmen Ricky alreajy for junior Tim Brown. showed in the team's third pounds) was perhaps the big­Watters and Tony Brooks are Brown, who finished third in spring scrimmage that he can gest and most pleasant projected as solid running back the nation in all-purpose yar­Linebackers -Much of the throw the ball as well, racking surprise this spring, coming off prospects. dage, was big-play man for the heavy hitting this spring came up 189 yards in the air on a 12-a knee injury and making Irish this spring just as he was from the outside linebacker po­of-17 cor.lpietion ratio. Pete things happen. Jefferson scored in the fall of '86. Despite mis­sition for the Irish. Senior Dar­Graham and Steve Belles three touchdowns in the scrim­Fullbacks -Of all the positions sing two of the team's three rell "Flash" uordvn and soph­shared time with the No. 2 of­mage just prior to the Easter on the Irish offense, this is per­scrimmages while competing omore Rod West were fense this spring, with Graham holiday, and is giving last haps the most solid. Sophomore in track meets, Brown had a impressive. Cedric Figaro,
II keeping the ball in the air most year's leading rusher, Mark Anthony Johnson, the team's spectacular showing in the who missed spring drills while I ;; ~ ' of the time and the 6-4 Belles Green, a run for a spot on the second-leading rusher last team's final scrimmage. under discplinary suspension, doing a lot of running. No. 1 team. Francisco is also season, has spent the spring The Irish have anther reliable returns to the outside slot he wide out in junior Reggie Ward. held down last season. 
''''« •.,.... .. .. --·~ 
, 

.. . t-~ ' . ,_., ': . . ' Juniors Aaron Robb and Ray Sophomore Mike
' ' ....: ~~./·.~­
.. ¥' \

·\r·····*" Dumas also had good showings Stonebreaker had solild spring ·~ ··....· ·.·.·..... ~ ~"' . ·'if in the spring's workouts as did at the inside position and could \ t sophomore Pat Terrel. join senior Wes Pritchett in the 
...

·.~~.~ .· ..·..',~ . ··:
~ . t"' .c, middle for the Irish. Junior Ned
.· ,•. ';~ . 
.... ,., Jlii/if 'WI"' At tight end, Andy Heck looks Bolcar had a solid spring. ' *' ... I , -to be the top candidate despite 
missing most of the spring be­cause of injuries. Tom Byrne Secondary -Seniors Marv
.... 
has moved from quarterback Spence returns at one corner 
~ ~· ~ "~ ·~ 
to tight end. Look for incoming position, while senior Brandy freshman Frank Jacobs, Ken­Wells, who switched to corner­tucky's top prep player, to back for the last two games of make a contribution here. the '86 sedson, should take the other. Stan Smagala had a solid rookie campaign at the corner 
Offe'lsive Line -Co-captain and spot should see tiem at the cor­center Chuck Lanza will ner as well. anchor an Irish line which returns four of five starters. At strong safety, George Co-Captain Byron Spruell will Streeter had a hard-hitting spr­line up at right tackle, while ing and should retain the posi­Tom Freeman and Tom Reh­tion he took over midway der will return to their slots at through last season. Junior left guard and tackle, respec­Corny Southall looks to have tively. In the only opening on continued the successful tran­the line at right guard, where sition from tailback to safety. 
The Observer,Greg Kohs sophomores Jeff Pearson and Senior James Bobb has the "Down GWn" Tim Brown eludes a Pitt tackler in action last season. For a previ~w of Notre Dame Dean Brown are battling for versatility to fill in at either playtr!' including Brown, see the team previev1 abovt. the position. safety or the corner. 




