
Strip contest -page 9 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 1987
VOL. XXI, NO. 133 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint \fa11's 

'I have a clear conscience,' Waldheim claims 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria-President Kurt Waldheim said Tuesday he did nothing wrong as a Ger­man army officer during World War II and the U.S. decision to bar him on grounds of involve­ment in Nazi atrocities is "in­comprehensible." 
"I have a clear conscience. 
You can trust me," 

W aldheim told the nation in a 
five-minute speech on radio 
and television. 
On Monday, the United 
fJ•­


'' 
., .-~ 

;). ' 
·~
I' 
...... ~ 

j .t~ ·~ -·­.·... ~ ' 
Blowing off 
States put the former u.N. secretary-general on its W atchlist of undesirable aliens barred from entering the United States, citing evidence that he aided in the deportation and execution of thousahds of Jews and others. 
Investigators found evidence that Waldheim "participated in persecutions for reasons of race or religion under the Nazi regime," Attorney General Ed­win Meese said Tuesday in Brussels. 
A U.S. official at the United Nations in New York said that, if W aldheim sought to attend a 

U.N. session, "a policy decision would have to be made on whe­ther to admit him." 
Waldheim, who is 68 and was elected to the largely ceremonial presidency last June, thanked Austrians for an "impressive wave" of support expressed earlier Tuesday in a government statement reject­ing the U.S. charges. 
He said he has asked re­searchers to prepare a "White Book" about his activities during the World War II and 


The Observer!fodd Tucker 
Kevin Kalambhet takes time off Tuesday to vantage of these last few days of leisure before play his trumpet. Kalambhet, a freshman, sits final exams. on the steps of the Band Building, taking ad-


HPC discusses 'farewell' 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
A student farewell for Fat­hers Hesburgh and Joyce and a Rally for Justice, calling for an end to apartheid in South Africa, were among the topics discussed at Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
Student Body President Pat Cooke spoke to the Council re­garding a farewell mass and picnic for University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce. 
"This Friday at 4: 30 there will be a Mass in the ACC bas­ketball arena," Cooke said. "The picnic will start after Mass, around 5:30 on the South Quad. 
"At 7:00 we're going to make a presentation with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce," said Cooke. "(Director of Uni­versity Food Services) Mr. (William) Hickey is really going to town on the project, so pray it doesn't rain," Cooke said. 
Cooke said gifts from the stu­dent body will be presented to Hesburgh and Joyce at the pic­nic. "I think (the gifts) mean a lot more coming from the stu­dents," Cooke said. 
Plans for an inauguration ceremony for University President-elect Father Ed­ward "Monk" Malloy were also announced at the meeting. Cooke said the ceremony will be held on the Main Quad, in front of the Administration Building. A fireworks display will be set off from behind the dome, he said. Flags represe­nting each dorm will also ap­pear in the ceremony, said Cooke. 
Former Student Senator John Gardiner announced a Rally for Justice will be held May 1 on the steps of the Administra­tion Building. "HPC has a big voice among the students and the campus itself," Gardiner said....We're going to have a rally against racism, specifi­cally against apartheid," he said. 
Speakers for the event will include a South Bend council­woman, Director of African Studies Dr. Peter Walshe and student leaders, Gardiner said. Music will also be provided for the event, he said. 
"We hope to make a big, big rally becau~P. the Board of Trustees will be meeting. I think it's good to get some stu­dent unity behind a cause and get rid of some of the apathy on campus," said Gardiner. 
In other business, the HPC heard from District 4 Senator Steve Viz on a resolution re­stricting students to their respective dining halls. "We all 
know finals are coming up and 
with that there will be a lot of 
people in the Library," Viz 
said. 

"We're asking students to 
see HPC, page 5 
"this documentation will be Waldheim made no direct ref­made available to the public erence to accusations that he shortly," he said. was linked to World War II atrocities in Greece and Yugos­
Charges about his World War lavia. He did not mention the activities have plagued Nazi Holocaust or Austria's Waldheim since early last role in the war. Germany an­year, and he has consistently nexed Austria in 1938, and some denied them. Nazi hunter some Austrians served in the Simon Wiesenthal told The As­German arm)' in World War II. sociated Press earlier Tuesday that Waldheim should allow an "Once again, as in the last 12 investigation by an indepen­months, there is talk of sup­dent group of military his­posedly new papers," torians, who could make a Waldheim said. "Let me em­report in four or five weeks. phash.e that there can be no 
In Tuesday's speech, proofs of guilty conduct." 

Students whipped during protests 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Police whipped student protesters and the government · said 18 students were arrested Tuesday during a second day of violence at the predominantly white Univer­sity of Cape Town. 
In another major develop­ment Tuesday, a Supreme Court judge overturned a con­troversial ban on appeals for the release of detainees. 
Major black opposition groups discussed plans for a nationwide strike from jobs and schools on May 5 and 6 to protest the whites-only par­liamentary election on May 6. The United Democratic Front, the country's largest anti­apartheid coalition, said gov­ernment suppression of opposi­tion activity "has left us no option but to call for protest ac­tion." 
The confrontation in Cape Town prompted police to close a major highway near the campus for more than two hours Tuesday afternoon. Police said the highway would be closed during peak hours each day until the unrest ceased. 
The Bureau for Information said police used whips after a group of about 400 students refused to obey an order to dis­perse. It said 15 men and three women were arrested. 
The violence followed a meeting of an estimated 3,000 students who voted to boycott classes through Wednesday to protest police use of firearms, tear gas and whips during campus clashes Monday. 
Marmel plans return; won't trade 'threeks' 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Managing Editor 

His plans called for 100 University of Wisconsin stu­dents to invade Notre Dame, "annex" the campus and trade their "threeks" for dining hall forks. 
But University of Wisconsin-Madison senior Steve Marmel called off last fall's invasion. He did so, however, only after hundreds of UW students threatened to wreak havoc on the Notre Dame campus. 
Now the stand-up com­edian wants to come back, preferably in the fall. 
By then he'll be well into his term as UW's co-student body president, a post he won earlier this month after the other candidates were disqualified. 
"I'd like to bring at least 200 to 300 people, because then you can get a bulk rate at the Motel 6," said Mar­mel, who takes office on Thursday. "And as anyone who has done a road trip knows, that's the most im­portant thing." 
Last fall, Marmel planned to bring about 100 Wisconsin students to Notre Dame. As part of the "invasion," the students would trade their school's "threeks," or three­pronged forks, for Notre Dame's four-pronged forks. 
Marmel also planned to distribute 1,000 free con­doms to Notre Dame stu­dents. In addition, the UW students would raise their school flag on the Notre Dame campus. 
But Marmel called the whole thing off. Or most of it. 
Marmel did lead about 20 UW students in raising the Badger flag on the Notre Dame campus. And he did "annex" the campus, call­ing it the University of Wisconsin-Notre Dame. 
see THREEKS, page 5 


----------------~---­
The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 2 

In Brief 

Rector appointments for the 1987-88 school year have been made by Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. Present Howard Hall Rector Eugene Gorski will be the new rector of Saint Edward's Hall, while Sister Mary Jane Griffin will assume his position at Howard Hall. Farley Hall's new rector will be Sister Mary Louise Gude. Joseph McKenna will be the new rector of Sorin Hall replacing Brother Tom O'Malley. -The Observer 
Contra rebels killed an American in an attack Tuesday in the northern province of Jinotega in Nicaragua, government radio reported. The state-run Voice of Nicaragua identified the victim as Benjamin Ernest Linder of Portland, Ore, a mechanical engineer who had been in Nicaragua since 1985. It said the attack came at 7 a.m. in Camaleona, a hamlet of about 100 families. Linder was working with a rural development program, accor­ding to the report. 
-Associated Press 


Of Interest ,. .·-. 
Renowned poet, playwrite, and political activist, Dr. Amiri Baraka, will lecture today at4p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. The topic of his presentation is "The Black Liberation Movement of the 1960's: How Far Have We Really Come?" -The Observer 
The American Chemical Society Student Mfiliates' annual banquet will be tonight at the Hans Haus in South Bend. Cocktails start at 6:30p.m., dinner at 7:30 
p.m. Those needing rides should meet at the main circle at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
OH HENRY T-Shirt winners may pick up shirts at the first floor information desk in LaFortune between today and Saturday. -The Observer 
John Keane, director of the United States Bureau of the Census, will speak at LaFortune's Little Theater today at 4:15p.m. Keane, a 1955 graduate of Notre Dame, has been director of the bureau since 1984. The lecture is the last of the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series and is sponsored by the Student Alumni Relations Group and Student Government. -The Observer 
Campus Perspectives on WVFI checks out the campus music scene, speaking to several members of campus bands. Tune in to WVFI-AM 640 tonight between 9-10 p.m. Call in questions at 239-6400. -The Observer 

Weather 

Breaking the records is what the -o­
,,'

weather is doing as Michiana gets yet an­other day of mild weather. Partly sunny today, high of 70. Cooler tonight with a low near 45. 



Design Editor ............ ·~-~ Chris Donnelly Accent Layout ................ Ann Biddlecom Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andy Fenoglio Typist .................~ .............. Esther Ivory Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ...................................... Gina Farabargh ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor .............. Chris Hasbrook News Editor.................. Mary Heilmann SMC Day Editor ........... Sandy Cerimele Copy Editor ....................~ .... Joe Markey Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin ......................................... Theresa Kelly Photographer ..................... Todd Tucker Viewpoint Layout.. .. ~ ..... Kathleen Moran 
The Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Oblerver is a member of The AJsodated Pras. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Cow 'moos' replace car horn as Long Islander visits farm 
I've lived my whole life in the heart of "Let's Go Mets" land on Long Island, where you can look out the window and watch your neighbors eat dinner and the front lawn takes only twenty minutes to mow. 
This Easter, I couldn't make it home, and so I spent my break at a friend's farm in Meringo, Illinois. As we drove up past Chicago, I noticed the buildings becoming further and further apart, until we reached our destination -a real live "we don't have these in the suburbs" cattle farm. Before I could hop back in the car and return to civilization -or at least South Bend ­I heard a cow moo. Now, I have never seen a 
· cow, let alone hear one, so you can imagine my shock. "What the (expletive) was that?" I screamed. "Welcome to a farm," my friend said as she smiled at me. The next four days turned out to be a rewarding experience for a city boy like me. When I left on Monday, I was an expert on baling hay, driving a tractor, castrating young cows, and a million other farm jobs that I never knew existed. The first thing I noticed about the farm is that it is big-very big. I think you can fit about 1000 of my houses on the farm property. We looked out over the green fields of hay and the muddy corn fields that the cows were grazing on. My friend kept describing it by saying, "Our land goes past those trees way back there and about a half mile past that hill on that side." I learned later in the week just how big the prop­erty is when I walked the fence around the field repairing the electrical wires that keep the animals in. Keeping the animals under control is a diffi­cult task. Although cows are supposedly dumb, they know when the grass is greener on the other side of the fence. More importantly, the bulls know when the females are "vulnerable" (I guess they aren't that dumb), and they will not hesitate to break through the fence when they are "in heat." My primary job on the farm was to rebuild these electric fences, making sure the "pets" stay in. Unlike my house, where gold fish are the pri­mary pet, the cows are the central feature of this farm. Since my friend's family raises cattle for beef, they try to fatten each calf until it is time to sell it for slaughter. Although they know each cow by name, my friend and her family enjoy seeing the animals carted off. "Once they are sold, I don't have to feed them anymore," explains my friend's brother. Mter the cows are sold, they become food for us. I've always been a hamburger kind of guy, but somehow on the farm it struck a strange 
You are invited to save during this 

$pecial 2-Day Used CarSQiel 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
May 1 May2 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 9 a.m. to noon 
Main Office Lot: 19033 Douglas Road Uust north of campus) 
Cars may be previewed at the Michiana Regional Airport on Thursday, April30. 
100°/o FINANCING AVAILABLE 
to qualified members Apply for your pre-approved loan! 
Discounts from $400 to $1,000 are available! Stop at the NDCU AVIS Used Car Sale 

r4.NOTRE DAME 
~S~e~~~J2~ity of Notre Dame 
'-----239-6611---------' 
Jim Winkler 
Day Chief 
nerve to know the name of the animal--or former animal--that I was presently eating. I think that after much consultation, we decided that it was Essau, and not George, that resembled steak on my plate. I distinctly recall that it was the neighbor's best pig that was our ham on Easter Sunday. I don't quite remember what chicken from down the road produced which eggs, but that's because breakfast was a blur. 
Breakfast is tough to recall because it was served at 6:45. That's fifteen minutes before seven--in the morning. I hate mornings, but on a farm they are the most important part of the day. If the work doesn't begin early, it doesn't all get finished. That was probably the hardest part of life on the farm. I can't even make it to my 10:10 class, let alone be awake enough at 7 a.m. to drive a tractor. 
Farm life just isn't for me, I've decided. It is a great occupation for someone who likes to work very hard for long hours each day. I am a lazy suburban boy. Hence, no Farmer Jim in my future. However, I learned a great deal on my trip to the farm, experiencing many things that I would never have seen if I had gone home for break. 
The next time I'm sitting in traffic munching on a cheeseburger, I'll think of George (or was it Essau?), smile, and honk my horn. 
-----------~------~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 



-1 
Shady Characters 
Freshman Laura Krupnick and two friends find repose in the shade offered by one of the many blooming trees on campus. More smiling faces 
The Observer!fodd Tucker should be seen as the reality of summer vaca­tion sinks in and good weather continues. 

THE~SHOPPE  
PACKING. SHIPPING. STORING. MOVING. BOXES. w... w,..,,, ,_,,, f"wj lt. SA91t •• • To Meet YOVR Stll..... • MOVING BOXES PACKAGE SHIPPING •GIFT BOXES MAILING TUBES • STORAGE BOXES LOOSE PAKING MATERIAL • GIFT & PACKAGE SHIPPING ENVELOPES WRAPPING AND CONT A INTERS .,..,,_,Jtm 0../ltu Or A ,.,...,_ltd... If W...,OC. 'r ltnolf ft It'• C"t11t a.tll! WI'Arr A M~ Dutnbtl• ,,..... 8ap' ,,,14/llt'tll,_. .A ltd 11NI AINIU c.....,.trw /'rtnlw!  
HouraNext to TAN HAWAIIAN JMS Plazaend UNCLES IRISH PUB 10 AM -6 PM M-F 4690 Grape Road Aak about our delayed 10 AM-2 PM Saturday Mishawaka, IN 46545 ehlpplng ol peckogoo 2n-91n UPS • Federal Express  

Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 3 
'Diversity' group forming at SMC 
By SHANNON McGOWAN 
Staff Reporter 
The Student Committee on 
Campus Diversity, a group 
whose goal is to increase the 
diversity of the Saint Mary's 
student body and faculty was 
discussed at Tuesday night's 
Programming Board meeting. 
According to Smith Has­
hagen, vice president for stu­
dent affairs the committee is 
not formally organized yet and 
is seeking students to become 
involved. 
The goals of the committee are to increase campus diver­sity in order to allow the ac­credidation of the Social Work department Hashagen said. 
A survey will be sent out to all students in the fall to gather feedback on increasing diver­sity. 
Other planned activities in­clude a lecture series on minorities, letters to parents, and the recruitment of minority faculty. 
According to Hashagen,the last attempt to increase racial diversity on the Saint Mary's campus was in 1973 and it was not successful. 
Also discussed at the meeting 
were last week's An Tostal ac­
tivities. General success char­
acterized the week according 
to Mary Carol Cahill, Tradi­
tional Events Commissioner. 
despite what she called inade­
quate publicity. 

Saint Mary's student govern­ment plans to end the year with a bang. "Party on the Quad," Saturday at the LeMans court­yard from 1-5 p.m., will be the final event of the year. 
The picnic has been ad­vertised in most dorms on both campuses according to Publicity Commissioner Linda Drake. Entertainment at the picnic will be provided by the bands "The Law" and "Freudian Slip." 
Finally, this week's events were discussed. Attendance at Friday's Rally for Justice was encouraged. The rally will take place at 3: 15 on the steps of Notre Dame's Administration Building. 
Also on Friday, will be the Farewell Mass for University President Father Theodore Hesburgh which all students are encouraged to attend. The Mass will start at 4:30p.m. 




Prof. Westler delivers ·final 'Last Lecture' 
By MIMI TUOHY 
News Staff 
Combining personal poetry readings with his own theory on poetry writing, Max Westler, professor of English at Saint Mary's, gave the final speech of the Last Lecture Se­ries Tuesday night in Haggar College Center. 
"The process of writing a poem is trying to name a feeling. It is taking the abstract and making it concrete,'' said Westler. 
A graduate of Columbia Uni­versity, Westler is the "poet in residence" at Saint Mary's. He read thirteen of his own poems after opening with "An Intro­duction to Some Poems" by William Stafford. 
Westler's poems described different times, events and feelings that he has experi­enced during his life. "Sailing On" he described as a love poem written "as an apology to my first girlfriend" and "Late After the Reading and EarlX On Into the Next Mor­
ning ' describes a 1968 college party. 
Westler says he began writing poetry in the sixth grade and considers it to be a 
"professional hobby." Accor­
ding to Westler, the poems read 
Tuesday night are scheduled to 
appear in a book of his many 
writings. 

This lecture was the culmina­tion of the Last Lecture Series which began on February 24th. The speakers were all to ad­dress the question: If you were dying and could only give one more lecture, what would it be?" 
The series was proposed to the student government by Mary Ellen Smith, Director of Student Affairs, who heard about a similar lecture series at the University of Wisconsin­Eau Claire. 
Betsy Burke, former Vice President of Academic Affairs, coordinated the lecture. Stu­dent surveys were used to choose the speakers. 
''The feedback from the people attending has been out­standing. Betsy did a great job and her publicity was terrific,'' commented Smith. 
Burke concluded,"It was a great idea. I like having the faculty and administration on campus speaking to students. I hope they do it again next year and many years to come." 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 

Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautltul setting Is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
•
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
lntercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 

models and clubhouse Open daily 
PIME MISSIONARIES ive t e GOSPEL among t e poor and unchurched in the Third World. So that all may ~w of God's love. 
Young men 18-35, interested in FREE BOOKLET about life as a missionary priest in PIME, fill out this ad and send it to: 
PIME Vocation Dept. 3731 West 62nd St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
(312) 767-0620 


~_________________________Age______ 
Address ________________________________ ___ 
Cit State Zi 
~TOYOTA -~ 
~ 

333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer 

House subpoenas 

U.S. embassy files 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Accusing the State Department of with­holding information, a House subcommittee voted Tuesday to subpoena department files on security at the U.S. embassy in Moscow. 
"I am shocked and chagrined that the State Department would act in this way when they had indicated that they would cooperate," said subcommit­tee chairman Rep. Daneil Mica, D-Fla. who toured the embassy earlier this month and reported lax security. 
"We understand they set up a special task force to try to withhold this information,'' said Mica, chairman of the Foreign Affairs subcommittee on overseas operations. 
The panel voted 6-0, with three absent, to issue the sub­poena for files dealing with se­curity procedures at the pres­ent U.S. embassy in Moscow, the building still under con­struction to replace it, and pos­sibly other American missions in the Soviet bloc. 
At the State Department, spokesman Charles Redman said a computer search produced thousands of docu­ments about embassy security and a task force was assigned to determine which were rele­vant to the committee's re­quest. 
Materials were provided to the subcommittee Friday, Monday and Tuesday morn­
ings, said Redman, but he ac­
knowledged that some highly 
classified cables have not been 
provided. He said the State De­
partment is trying to work out 
an agreement with the subcom­
mittee concerning these docu­
ments. 

Asked about Mica's expres­
sion of shock over the State De­
partment's behavior, Redman 
said, "I just have no idea on 
what basis he could make such 
a statement." 

Last Friday, Robert Lamb, 
the assistant secretary of state 
for diplomatic security, as­
sured the subcommittee that 
security procedures had been 
tightened since two Marine 
guards allegedly were sexually 
entrapped by Soviet women 
employed at the embassy and 
allowed KGB agents into sensi­
tive sections of the building. 

Lamb also testified that U.S. 
officials were aware as early 
as 1979 of Soviet attempts to 
bug a new U.S. embassy under 
construction in Moscow, but 
thought they could counteract 
the devices. 

President Reagan has said that Soviet workers implanted so many listening devices in the new building that he may order it torn down. 
"We are looking for a paper trail between the embassy and the State Department .. . re­garding the old and the new embassy," said the ranking Republican on the panel, Rep. Olympia Snowe of Maine. 
A Lecture by Dr. Amiri Baraka (formerly LeRoi Jones) Renowned playwrite, poet and political activist TOPIC: The Black Uberation Movement of the 1~60's: How Far Have We Really Come? Wednesday, April 29, 1987 at 4 pm Center for Social Concerns Sponsored by: Student Gov't, Student Activities, Office of Minority Student Affairs, College of Arts and Letters, Black Studies, & The B.C.A.C.  

Move Yourself, 
All Your Staff, 
,~-And Save,Tool--.., 

f 
I 
I 
It's as easy as renting a Ryder truck, one way. 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end of the semester. Ifyou're 18 or older and haw: a valid driver's license, you can use • a Ryder truck, rent-It-here, leave-it-there. Load up your 
stereo, 10-speed, clothes; everything. You'll still haw: room. oc• 
•I doubt, for one or two friends with theirthings to share the cost. Compare that to the price of a plane ticket. Or even a bus.
I 
I 
Plus shipping. 
Rent a ~r truck from the best-maintained, most dependa­
ble fleet in the world -Ryder: The best truck money can J?flt. 


2715 North Bendix, South Bend, Ind. ., (By the Airport) 
RYDER TRUCK RENTAL 
All students are given a 10% discount. 
IT'S RYDER, OR IT'S WRONG
' 


Grieving 

Two unidentified people hug one another out­side Our Lady of Assumption Roman Catholic Church in Fairfield Monday after the funeral of Scott Ward, 17. Ward, who was on spring 
... 
Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 4 
AP Photo 
break from high school, was killed when an apartment building under construction col­lapsed in Bridgeport. At least 15, including Ward, are dead and 13 missing in the collapse. 





Refrigerator Return 
All University owned refrigerators MUST be returned to STEPAN CENTER on SATURDAY, MAY 2 
10:00 am -3:00 pm 
Refrigerators must be clean and defrosted to receive your $20.00 deposit. SAB Services Commission 



GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT 
(LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDJVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100lbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 5 

Security Beat 
Sunday 
9:00a.m. -An ACC employee turned 
3:40 p.m. -Security is investigating over a locked briefcase he found in a hit-and-run accident reported by a the building. An owner cannot be Pasquerilla East resident. The vic­identified as access to the contents tim stated that approximately $400 has been prevented by the lock. The damage was incurred on her vehicle case is being held by Security for while it was parked in the D2 lot. safekeeping. 
7:00 p.m. -A Saint Mary's student 9:15 a.m. -An Alumni Hall resident was apprehended by Notre Dame se­reported the theft of his bookbag curity for possession of a stolen bar­from the fifth floor of the Memorial ricade from the Saint Mary's Library. The victim estimates the campus. The stolen rroperty was loss at $161. returned to its rightfu owner. 
9:30a.m. -An employee in the LaFor­7:45p.m. -North Dining Hall person­tune Student Center reported the nel reported a broken window after theft of two Neil Diamond tickets hearing glass breaking near the from the top of his desk in his locked 
loading dock. An estimate of repair office. Security has a suspect but fur­was given at $30. ther information on the investigation cannot be released. The tickets are 
11:45 p.m. -An Alumni" Hall resident valued at $35. reported the theft of $45 cash from his wallet inside his unlocked room. Another resident of the dorm re­
10:35 a.m. -The Grand Knight of theported seeing two black male youths Knights of Columbus reported thein the victim's room between the theft of a chair from the K of C build­times the theft would have occurred. 
ing. The chair is valued at $20.
He did not pay much attention to them as they are members of the Big 
11:40 a.m. -An off-campus student re­Brothers Program and have been in ported the theft of his wallet fromthe dorm on several other occasions. 
inside the Law School Library. The victim estimated his loss at $90.
Monday 
12:44 a.m. -A female student re­2:52p.m. -An off-campus student re­ported the theft of her jacket con­ported the theft of his license platetaining her detex card and keys from from his car. The victim was unableTheodore's. The jacket and detex to cite a replacement cost for thecard were subsequently returned, al­property.
though the keys are still missing. 
people in your halls know about 
the situation," Viz said. In other business, 1987-88 Stu­
HPC 
continued from page 1 
dent Activities Board Manager use their respective dining Janel Blount spoke to hall presi­halls during finals. What I dents regarding the Student wanted to bring to you is to let Activities Board. 
Special Olympics Meeting Tonight! 
For anyone who wishes to work on The Observer this summer for the 1987 Inter­national Summer Special Olympics Games. 
7 o'clock LaFortune Little Theatre 
ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO'" 


ONEHOUR ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO.. • Pictures ready in one hour MOTOPHOTo·· UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality SCOTTSDALE MALL 272-8243 291-3096 
-------------------------------i·----------------------------------~------------------------­
UP TO S3,00 · fREE Graduaf~~Especial 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING EXTRA SET OF PRINTS 24 Wallet Size Portraits 
With this coupon, rec:eive s3.00 OFF on a 36 With this coupon, receive a FREE Extra Set of With this coupon receive 24 wallet size exposure, s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, s1.00 Prints, when presenting one roll of color print portraits when purchasing any regularly OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll film {C-41 process) for processing and print-priced portrait package at ONE HOUR of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro-ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limited to 
cesslng and printing at One Hour Moto one roll per coupon per customer. Not valid MOTO PHOTO. One coupon per custom-Photo. Coupon offers may not be combined. with any other promotion. er. Not valid with any other promotion. t Expires june 30. 1987. MOOt«~OPHOTO' Expires: June 30 • 1987· Ot«HOUtr _ Expires: june 30, 1987. OMHOUff 
• W9 ,. •· W9 MOTOPHOTO wg MOTOPHOT0­1 ·---------------------------j ~~--------------------------~ ---------------------------­
---~----------------------------------------1 
8:35p.m. -A Lewis Hall resident re­ported the theft of her $250 bicycle that was locked in an enclosed court area. The damaged lock was left be­hind by the thief. 
9:00 p.m. -A Cavanaugh Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his Walkman cassette1'adio player and headphones from inside his unlocked room. The victim statea Lh10 loss at $35. 
Tuesday 
10:00 a.m. -Securitv and oolice ar­rested and transported a Building Services employee wanted on an out­standing warrant to the St Joseph County Jail. Security learned of the warrant during an investigation. The person is no longer employed at the University. 
10:34 a.m. -Notre Dame Vending employees reported a soda machine in Howard Hall was broken into. Ap­proximately $100 in cash was removed from the machine. Esti­mated damage is unknown at this time. 
12:45 p.m. -Security investigated an accident that occurred when a car exiting the C1 lot collided with an­other car driving south on Old Junipe.-Road. Only one vehicle sus­tained damage. No one was injured. 
Threeks 
continued from page 1 
Marmel canceled his other plans, however, following the publication of his Nov. 13 column in UW's student news­paper. 
When the column appeared, it triggered an angry reaction from about 400 UW students. "Not only were they going to steal your forks, but they wanted to wreck this campus, too," he said. 
As a result, Marmel called the invasion off, saying he didn't want anyone to get hurt. 
Moreover, Marmel said, UW students no longer had reason to trade their "threeks" for Notre Dame forks. After stu­dents had stolen the 24,000 "threeks," school officials wrote a letter asking students to return the "threeks," promising to buy the four­pronged forks in the future. 
Now, five months later, the stand-up comediawcolumnistlco-student body president is hoping to plan another road trip to Notre Dame. 
Before he does, however, Marmel wants to talk to Notre Dame Student Body President Pat Cooke. "I have to talk to your school and find out when they want me b~ck," he said. 
Marmel may not have much time to plan the road trip, however. The stand-up com­edian said he'll record a com­edy album in the spring, and then perform in clubs around the country, including the Com­edy Store in Los Angeles. 
If Marmel does successfully plan another road trip, however, it undoubtably will differ from last fall's planned invasion. 
While Marmel still wants to distribute condoms, he doesn't 
see any need to trade "threeks" for forks or "annex" the campus again. 
In fact, Marmel wouldn't mind having Notre Dame stu­dents road trip to his school first. As he told one Notre Dame student, "You guys can come up here any time you want. You pick a day and I'll make sure you have a party. 
"You're our sister school now," he added. "We own you." 

~-----~--­

--------------~------------------------, 
"ieVV~_O_i_n__t_____________
w_edne-sday-,Apr-il29,_1987--pag-e6 
Homogeneous students foster discrimination 
The following is the third in a series. 
Undergraduates here are reluctant "to get into anything that looks as ex­otic or as deviant as homosexuality and gay rights." Richard realizes that many students find the issue disturb­ing, unsettling. Part of the reason for this, as he sees it, is the pressure at Notre Dame to "turn out a similar prod­uct." 
Jenifer Naughton 
guest column 

"Everybody turns out more or less the same: kind of upper-middle class, white, conservative, Catholic, who's going to vote Democratic once every ten years." 
Sarn;1 is a graduate student, and so the pressure to conform is not as strong as it would be for undergraduates living on campus, but she still finds it difficult to be gay at Notre Dame. 
"I did not come here because I'm Catholic. I came here for the area of study that I'm in. I think I would have come here even if I had known how oppressive it is here for someone who is gay, and for someone who is a wo­man, but it is much worse than I ex­pected." 
She does not understand why people are so intolerant. "Is it something that threatens you personally? Are you in­tolerant because you've been taught to be intolerant -by society or by the Church? Why are you intolerant?" 
Richard's experience as a priest has made him more acutely aware of the oppression of women, minority groups and gays. I'm on the edge of two worlds between a very exalted status and a very degraded status. Insofar as I'm a priest, people are incredibly deferen­tial, which can be quite embarrassing, but it's also so different from the expe­rience as someone who's gay." 
He sees an "enormous amount of prejudice among undergrads" toward many minorities (Chinese, blacks and even women"). "They're still figuring out how they're supposed to react, so they tend to pick up the cues around them, and the cues here are not very enlightened." 
"It seems especially difficult for men to talk about homosexuality. Ifthey are open about it, people might wonder why. If they are defensive, upright or nasty, people might assume they are hiding something. 
"Part of the problem for guys here," Richard says, "is the whole cult of mac­hoismo, that whole Knute Rockne her­itage and the tremendous obsession with the Fighting Irish. I'm not saying that that's entirely bad, but I think it becomes a barrier. 
"It makes it hard for guys here, whe­ther they're straight or gay, to show sensitivity, to express certain kinds of feelings: feelings of tenderness, feelings that are not traditionally asso­ciated with Sylvester Stallone." 
Steve's best friend is not gay, but sometimes they greet each other with a hug. "Not that we're constantly hug­ging, but some people are so afraid that if they even touch someone of the same sex that it's abnormal." 
Women do not seem to be as uncom­fortable expressing affection or accept­ing diversity. The "most generous" responses Richard has had were from women graduate students. Rather than complicate the relationship, eliminat­ing sexual tension can make friendship more comfortable. 
He wishes the women here would speak out on allldnds of issues. "The women here are generally more intel­ligent than the guys, have higher im­aginations, and I guess they're not or­dinarily as ambitious in the classical sense. So they're freer to-risk saying unpopular things in the classical sense. So they're freer to risk saying un­popular things because they're not worried about getting the chairman­ship at General Motors." 
Notre Dame's administrators might say unpopular things, but not without worrying about and carefully weighing each risk. It's a hard time," Richard sighs. "I empathize with their fears be­cause the Vatican's breathing hard and there are lots of vigilantes around who would like to come in here and conduct a witch hunt. But I think the adminis­trators should relax a little. They have a lot more freedom to speak out than they allow themselves. 
"There are ways to set the tone for toleration and still make it clear that this school adheres to the official teach­ing of this Church, etc, so that they're not going to get blasted." 
It would help, Richard and the others agree, if people would admit that they know very little about homosexuality. It would help if people would say "We'd like to learn" and start to ask questions. 
"There's nothing wrong with saying 'We don't understand this. Tell us what's going on."' 
Jenifer Naughton is a senior American Studies major. 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. 
Doonesbury 
~ 
r 
f 
LAPI&S ANOGtNTtEMEN, A$ 
tu&RU:06NI!C YOIJR LC6/TIM/1JC YOU KNOW, FOR THE. PA5T FtW 
Na/?5, HOIU£VCI?, 50tf/Hfl& HOUS/3MONTHS, "lH&/'R$1/JENTHA5 
7UHN/OAN9 HAVE I?EaNTlYCON­! 8!£NMUCH 7{K) 8USY5er!7N6 THE. 
FIGUREPANlilEClWN/C. 5TANIJ-IN ! NATIONAL. AGENa4 70Mf£T 
U/HO 15PI?IVY 70 7H& P/?$/t:JENTS ~ YfJ(JONAR£6(JLAR tV8<Y 7}{()(}(:;HT. \ 8AS/5 . ......_ 

Education should come before social action 
of view, make an intelligent decision based on what you have learned. 
I write about this because I am guilty of the same mistake that the narrator of "Platoon" is. Back in November I went to Washington, D.C. to march into the city with the participants of the Great Peace March. My decision to go was made on a spur of the moment. I was at a performance by Barbara George, a well-known activist, and someone in the audience announced that he was sponsoring a trip to D.C. to welcome the marchers to the Na­tion's Capital and I decided to sign up. At the time I knew next to nothing about the Peace March and almost as little about nuclear weapons. I was much luckier than "Platoon's" narrator, however ,and I do not regret taking the trip. However, my trip would have been so much more meaningful if I had read up on both sides of the issues that were to be discussed at the march and rally. 
I did not write this article to dissuade anyone from becoming involved with issues of social justice. On the contrary, I hope that more students become in­volved with these issues. My point is that in order to ever make a difference one must first become educated. Edu­cation may take the form of watching the news regularly, reading up on the issues or attending some of the lectures that are offered on the two campuses. Do yourself a favor and take a contem­porary issues course as an elective. Find out the facts about what is going on in the world around us. Make the effort. It is worth it! 
Jennifer Demert is a freshman English major and is a writer for the Commu­nications Group of the Justice Educa­tion Committee. 
Quote of the day 
"The Lord is my light, and my salvation; whom then shall I fear: the Lord is the strength of my life; of whom then shall I be afraid?" 
Psalm 27:1 
I finally saw the movie "Platoon" last weekend while I was home for Easter Break. Like most who have seen the film, I was stunned by the realistic and unglorified portrayal of the Viet­nam War. However, the aspect of the film that hit closest to home for me was the fact that the narrator, played by Charlie Sheen, jumped in and tried to right an apparent wrong without knowing all the facts. He played the role of a young and idealistic college student who volunteered for the war be­cause he did not feel that it was right that the poor and underprivileged young men of our country were basi­cally the ones who were fighting the war. His motives were noble, but he never took the time to find out or at least try to find out what he was getting himself into. 
Jennifer Demert 
guest column 
Too often we find ourselves making the same mistake as the narrator of "Platoon". We often do not see the com­plexity of the issues and idealistically go in with an "I can change the world" attitude. This is especially true in the case of social justice issues. Issues of social justice are almost always com­plex and if one is to make any kind of difference in the long run, it is impor­tant that one is fully informed before jumping in and trying to change the situation. It is important to slowly work yourself into the situation. Supply your­self with information that supports all of the different viewpoints and then, after exposing yourself to all the points 
Garry Trudeau 

VieWP-Oint 
Wednesday, April29, 1987-page 1 
Students want elimination of standardized tests 
Greetings from Brown Universtty. We are Students Against Testing <SAT), a group of dedicated students who believe that the Scholastic Apti­tude Test (SAT) has been unquestion-. ingly accepted by students as a valid and reliable indicator of intelligence for far too long. We want to encourage col­leges all over the U.S. to take up this issue as well, becasue the test impacts all colleges. We aim ultimately to abolish the SAT, or reform it wholesale. 
Michael Spalter Mark Satire 
guest column 

To guage initial student opinion, Stu­dents Against Testing placed an initia­tive on our student council's April bal­lot, suggesting Brown make SAT's an optional part of our school's applica­tion. We were surpised at the high tur­nout (more than 1500 students) and ex­cited to find that 49.5% supported our position, after only one week of campus discussion. (Admittedly, with another 15 votes we would have been a little more ecstatic, because we would have won.) We also found that many did not vote for the initiative because they felt making it optional, as our ir.itiative stated, rather than banning it entirely, would prejudice the admissions office against those who withheld their scores. 
Student groups have flocked to our cause: the school newspaper, the wo-
P.O.BoxQ 

Racial slurs uninvited at Bookstore finals 
Dear Editor: 
I wish the Student Body of Notre Dame could have stood out of itself during the final Bookstore Basketball game Sunday afternoon. We would have seen a festive event turn cold. The game stirred up many racial issues, and turned into an unhappy occasion. Would we be proud? We were waking up the echoes, that is for sure. 
As a freshman, I expected so much from Bookstore Basketball: excite­ment, fun and a way to blow off steam. I got all that I expected. The students at Sunday's game were very excited and blew off a lot of steam. However, the steam has not settled, because the kettle has been boiling too long. 
Prejudice is thought to be a thing of the past, especially at Notre Dame. That is a myth, and people choose to believe in it because the truth hurts. We view ourselves as a people of higher education, reasoning that we are too civilized to burn crosses, thinking prej­udice is that out in the open. Yet, bur­ning crosses do not signal prejudice's existence. Prejudice stems from not un­derstanding others and believing in the stereotypes produced by the less in­formed generations that came before ours. 
men's center, the Organization of United African Peoples -all endorsed us. Student leaders from other clubs, such as Jennifer Polli, former head of the Conservative club, and the presi­dents of national Greek fraternities came out for us as well. This issue ap­peals to students across all back­grounds and all political orientations. 
We have received support among the faculty from Dr. Theodore Sizer, Chair­man of the Education department and a national figure in education, who calls the test "unnecessary" and biased against women, the poor and minorities. Our expert on psychological testing, Dr. Trygg Engen, Professor of Psychology says the test does not mea­sure anything meaningful, and does not predict achievement accurately. 
Did you know that ... 
-Those from families with an income of over $50,000 reach a combined score of 998, while those from families be­tween $6,000 and $12,000 average only 824. 
-Women score approximately 61 points lower than men nationally, yet they have higher G.P.A.'s in all four years of college. It's a disheartening fact, becasue over $60 Million in Na­tional Merit Scholarships and New York state's Empire grants goes to those in the upper ranges -only one third of whom are female. 
-This so-called standardized test es­pecially discriminates against minorities, largely because they have below average incomes. 
We have done what we can to call atention to the flaws in this test, but the effort required to take to task the test's makers, Educational Testing Ser­vices (ETS), surpasses the capabilities of a group on one campus. ETS has a sterling reputation that has only recently been examined critically. Some interesting facts about this or­ganization: 
-ETS creates the tests that generate the funds for their normal regulator, the College Board -with whom it ex­changes personnel regularly. 
ETS and the College Board fight ef­
forts to examine their procedures and 
data base, rarely divulging crucial in­
formation until required by legislation 
or law suits. For instance, they would 
not reveal what proportion of National 
Merit Finalists were women: no one 
knew until Fair Test, a watchdog group 
in Boston, paid students to tally how 
many women's names appeared in the 
hundreds of lists of winners published 
in newspapers around the country. 
Students could not examine graded copies of their tests to check their mis­takes until New York State insisted by passing a Truth-In Testing law. 
We need students to take up this issue nation wide. Smaller institutions, such as Brown, use the SAT more gingerly than large ones, which often refuse to consider applicants who score below their cut-off. Still other schools, with open admissions policies, require the SAT only to advertise the intellectual level of their students -something we 
It is time our "fine" university stop concentrating so much on pomp, cir­cumstance, and tradition. The world is passing it by and leaving it in the dust. Notre Dame wants to turn and look the other way, and it uses Catholicism as a justification. If this keeps up the fol­lowing generations will be poor ones. 
Jesilyn Barnes Breen-Phillips Hall 
NEA does not merit communist labeling 
Dear Editor: 
There must have been a mistake. Eric Murray's column of April 23 was obviously intended for the April 1 issue of the Absurder. Such hilariously in­sane jumps of logic, wacky, close­minded commie-bashing, and knee­slappingly alarmist, 1950's conservative paranoia is truly absurd. Bravo! As fellow columnists, we can't help admiring your comic style and literary virtuosity. 
In a particularly witty non-sequitur, Mr. Murray degrades the National Education Association because, "Nowhere in the basic documents of NEA...are there any anti-Soviet posti­tions." What a card. This guy is a comic genius. It must be coming from com­munism, then. Almost like the Consti­tution, right? Or the Ten Command­ments? 
Another great line concerns the NEA's denial of having communist ties. Since they deny these accusations, Murray skillfully assumes they are communists. Hey, what would you say if someone called you a communist? That's what we thought. 
Anyway, great Absurder article, right down the subtle, open-minded title, "From the Right." 
The ghost of Joe McCarthy stalks the Notre Dame campus. Thanks for the laugh riot. 
Tom Varnum 
Kevin Walsh 
Howard Hall 
Communist tendencies extend beyond NEA 
Dear Editor: 
My heartiest thanks to Eric Murray for his insightful revelations concern­ing the ongoing conspiracy of monolit­hic communism that now threatens our public shchools. The NEA's vicious at­tack on America and the precious bod­ily fluids of our children should be recognized for the shameless refusal to be intolerant that it really is. Clearly, every teacher should be forced to meet Murray's implicit criteria of worthi­ness: vocal and consistent attacks on 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer 1s the mdependent newspaper pubhshed by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pollc1es of the adm1n1stration of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the majonty of the Editorial Board Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS available to all members of the commun~ty and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
argue the test does do well. 
Bowdoin dropped the test from its ad­missions process fifteen years ago; more recently Bates made it optional; within the past two months Union Col­lege and U. of Wisconsin at Madison joined them; and, most recently, Mid­dlebury College made the test optional as well, in exchange for more Achieve­ment Test scores. At these colleges the admissions offices and administrations have decided the issue without being prompted by students: no campus has taken up the issue from student initia­tive. Fifteen years ago, students changed our school's entire academic structure, forming the New Curricu­lum. Students here remade the school, joining faculty and administration to assert a new vision of education. 
Please write us at Box 5771, Brown U., Providence, RI 02912 to receive our blessing should you wish to use our name, and to learn about our experi­ence. We encourage you to consider the topic on your own also. For an intro­duciton, we suggest David Owen's devastating "None of the Above" (Boston: Houghton-Mifflin, 1985). You can finally get your hands on actual SAT's, not the usual mock-ups, in "Ten SAT's" (Princeton: College Board). 
Standardized testing will become a central campus issue over the next de­cade throughout our country. Here's your chance to get involved at the start. 
Michael Spalter is the Founder and Mark Sajire is the Spokesman for Stu­dents Against Testing. 
socialism, blind devotion to existing bu­reaucratic structures, ignorance of class relations in the U.S., unquestion­ing allegiance to capitalism, and above all, a manifest unwillingness to desire or seek change in the educational sys­tem (except that which furthers the agenda of decent, correct thinking folk like Murray and myself). 
It should also be clear from Murray's article that the unanimous decisions by the U.S. Surpreme Court to integrate public schools evince a shameless par­ticipation in the worldwide communist conspiracy against patriotic local gov­ernment. Further, the support of federally ordered integration by Presi­dents Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson make their filthy communist tendencies abundantly clear. What have we sunk to? Next thing you know there will be fluoride in our water. 
Richard C. Pilger Off-Campus 

Write to P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 46556 
General Board  
Ed1tor-m-Chief . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. .  . ........ Kevin Becker  Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray  
Managing Ed1tor.....  . Mark Pankowski  Advertising Design Manager.......... Michael Whitton  
News Editor..  .. ..... . . ..  .... Chris Bednarski  Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau  
News Editor . .  . ................ Jim Riley  Production Manager ......... ............ Melissa Warnke  
Viewpomt Ed1tor. .  . ........... Chris Murphy  Projects Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin  
Sports Editor  . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .  . ... Dennis Corrigan  Systems Manager ................. ........... Shawn Sexton  
Accent Ed1tor . . .. . .  . . M1chael Naughton  Controller.........  . ...................... Tracy Schindele  
Samt Mary's Ed1tor..  . Marilyn Benchik  Graphic Arts Manager..................... . Laura Stanton  
Photo Editor..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................ Jim Carroll  Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon  

Founded November3, 1968 


--------~-~-~-~-------­

Accent 
Daze of our lives 
continuing 

The /\saga of Steve McStevewell 
"Wow," said Steve eyeing Carrie, "What a beautiful night." 
"You have no chance with her chief," said one of the Mikes. "No chance." 
"What are you talking about?" asked Steve. "Cut the comedy Stevo," retorted the Mike. "I saw you drool all over yourself when you first saw her. You can forget it though, because I've known her since the beginning of the year and I'm the one who invited her. 
"You!" blurted Steve, "She won't be able to tell you apart from the two other Mikes. I live with you guys, and I can't tell you apart!" 
"Are you implying that I have all the personality of an empty beer can?" asked Mike. 
"Not at all," responded Steve, ''I'm implying that you're a clod, and you're going to be a clod with big medical bills if you don't back off." 
"Y01.1're ctrunk," said the Mike. "You always get violent when you're drunk." 
"Don't say drunk," responded Steve, "I prefer to call it The Power of Positive Drinking: Put It to Work For You." 
They were nearing the party now. They could tell, because the number of people watering walls and bushes had increased markedly in the last two blocks. "Who's house are we going to anyway?" asked Moira. "Uh... this one" said another one of the Mikes, eyeing a guy in a blue sweater who was lying on the lawn of a white house. Plastic cups littered the immediate area and the sound "Hubba, hubba," said Steve. 
The Mike was eyeing him with contempt. "You always were a 
sleaze," he said. "Thanks 
Mike," said Steve. "At least I 
have a personality. Maybe you could rent one with an option 
to own." 
The whole group walked up the steps, Steve and Mike watching each other with tradi­tional male malice. Nobody was checking for student JD's, and Steve took that as a bad sign. He saw a huge group of people in a corner and grabbed Carrie by the arm, leading her to what he assumed was the keg. It turned out to be the bathroom instead. "Why did you lead me over to the bathroom?" asked Carrie? "Uh...You looked like you wanted to be here." said Steve. "That's the most degrad­ing thing anyone has ever said to me," whined Carrie. "Gee," responded Steve, "thanks!" 
"You're a moron, but I love you," beamed Carrie. "Now go get me a beer." Just as she said this, a guy to her left started to yell. "Undercover cop!" he shouted, "I just saw an undercover cop!" 
"How do you know," asked Steve. "How do I know?" stam­mered the kid, "I saw his JD, and it was real. When was the last time you saw a legitimate JD?'' 
"Good point," said Steve, "Let's get out of here." But it was too late; there were police officers in riot gear all over the house, and dogs were barking on the lawn. Carrie dropped Steve's arm and jumped out a window. Steve watched in hor­ror as she was clubbed sense­
less and cuffed by a Nazi. ..er, 
police officer and hauled to a 
paddy wagon. 
Steve jumped out of the win­dow and ran to help her. "Ar­rest me tool" he shouted at the arresting officer. "But son, you haven't done anything," responded the officer turning back to the business at hand. "Sure I have," protested Steve. "You name it I've done it." 
"Go away son, I'm busy" was all he got. Steve decided that it was time for desperate measures. "I like the food in the dining hall!" he screamed, "Your momma wears combat boots." 
"Jeez," said the cop, "if you wanna go that bad get in." "Cool" said Steve "Can I get clubbed too?" 
'~That's what they pay me for," said the officer, obliging Steve with a crack on the skull. 
He woke up in a cell. Carrie was dabbing his forehead with a cloth. "You're really brave," she was saying. "Stupid but brave." 
"Thanks," said Steve. "The lights are growing dim, so you'd better kiss me quick." She did. It wasn't that great. In fact she was a lousy kisser. 
"Neato," thought Steve, "Here I am in jail on purpose for a girl who kisses like a deflated inner tube. My life is hell. 
Suddenly Steve's guardian angel was by his side. "What have you learned from all this?" asked the angel. "''ve learned that I've got to stop drinking," said Steve. "When you start to see angels, It's time to give It up." 
"No, no dumbhead," said the angel, "Besides that." 
"Well," mused Steve, "''ve learned that these really are the best days of your life. I've learned that you should enjoy life as it comes, because you might not be here tomorrow. You might be somewhere else. . . I've also learned that someone should teach Carrie how to kiss." 
Will Steve be back next year? Will he get a summer job? Will Carrie ever learn to kiss? Will Mike, Mike, and Mike start their own law firm? Will Moira ever reveal her_ terrible secret? Will anyone care? Tune in next fall and find out. Til then remem­ber the immortal words of Robin the Boy Wonder as he turned to Batman and said, "Holy nightmare Batman! How can we fight crime in leotards?" 

Artwork gets its 
place in the su~ 
KATHY MARTIN features writer 

R
iley Hall of Art and Design. 
It's the mysterious vine­
covered building between 
O'Shag and Hurley on the 

South Quad. "Fashionably-at­
tired" art majors pass in and 
out of its doors all day. Even 
non-majors spend ·long hours 
there clutching paintbrushes, 
potters' wheels, and photo 

negatives. Although a large 
number of Notre Dame stu­
dents satisfy their creative in­
spirations with an art elective 
or two, many have no idea 
what goes on in the building, 
what talents lie behind the 
arched doorway. 

This Friday, Riley Hall is opening its doors and moving outside on the quad to let stu­dents see for themselves what the art majors are doing. Notre Dame's department of art, art history and design, and student government are sponsoring a unique Student Art Festival 
---------------------------~ 
asked for funding from Student Government, and brought her idea to the Art Department. 
"We were happy to help with the festival," said Professor Dick Stevens of the Art Depart­ment. "We like to draw atten­tion to the work our students do. The Festival itself is entirely organized and run by students, too. The exhibition, demonstra­tions, and even the posters have been designed by stu­dents. Ellen McDonald is to be commended for all her work." 
"We're anxious to see what the students will vote for In the festival," he said. "We want to invite the widest response to get a stronger sense of student taste." 
Dave Kroeger, president of the Student Liaison Committee for the Snite, worked with McDonald to bring Paul Soldner to campus for the festival. His committee works with mem­bers of the Snite Museum to increase student awareness of the museum on campus. He 


featuring student work, demonstrations, and food and music in a large tent outside Riley Hall. The Festival will kick off Thursday evening with a lecture by Paul Soldner, a nationally-known ceramic artist from Los Angeles, at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, and it will continue Friday with the student exhibitions and demonstrations in drawing, ceramics, painting, photogra­phy, design, and sculpture. 
The show is unusual in that student work will be on display and students themselves will judge the show and vote for the best piece of work in each medium. "We want to get the students involved in the art themselves," said Ellen McDonald, coordinator of the Art Festival. She came up with the idea for an art festival to let students know what is going on in the art department, 
___________________J~ 
originally envisioned a series of speakers on art, and he and McDonald invited a number of artists such as Andy Warhol and Cristo. With the Student Government funds, the series evolved into a festival for the entire campus. 

"The Sophomore Literary Festival is an established at­tempt to bring authors to campus," said Kroeger. "We are trying to bring artists to campus. I would call It a sort of 'pop-art' festival with a theme of where art is heading in the twentieth century. If this Festival goes well, maybe it will become an annual event to attract these artists." 
The Student Art Festival will be held Friday from 1 I :.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. After Friday, there will be no more excuses for not knowing what talent lies inside the vine-covered brick of Riley Hall. 
KRIS MURPHY features writer 

This week: Part TWo of the ad­ventures of Steve McSteueweU. Notre Dame student, future presi­dent of the United States, border­line alcoholic, and all-around nice guy. 
L 
ast week Steve and his three friends Mike, Mike, and Mike had hooked up with some hot babes before heading off campus. One of those aforementioned hot babes, Carrie, had particularly excited Steve. As we return to the action Steve, the Mikes, Carrie, Moira and Kristie were moving in the direction of St. Louis Street on foot. 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 
level was approaching the F-14 area. 
"These people are begging for the cops to come," ob­served Kristle. "Good point," observed the Mike who was also hot for Carrie. "I think we should go to the bars." 
"I don't" said Carrie. "I think we should go ln. It looks like fun." 
"I agree wholeheartedly," said Steve. "We'd be darn fools not to. After all, these are the best days of our lives. It can't get _much worse right?" 
"Gee," said Carrie, "What a refreshing attitude. You're the kind of guy I could have a completely meaningless one night stand with." 

~~-~--~ -~-------­
-~------­

Wednesday, April 29, 1987 -page 8-9 
The Observer 
r-----------~--------·---­
features writer 
W
hat would a newspaper be without comic strips? The New York Times, that's what but let's leave that out of It now. The Issue here Is that without cartoons, everyone's life would be a little poorer and everyone's doors woulq be a little barer. Cartoons are the laugh at the end of all the horrible and wonderful news of the world. 
Only the comics page could generate a universe where a talking lizard and Brenda Starr, Ace Reporter, share the same page space. A world where Charlie Brown never ages and Beetle Bailey never dies. 
This brings us to the Observer's Cur­rent State Of Comic Strip. In our bot­tomless generosity, we have decided that among other things we need some more laughs around this school. In an attempt to remedy this situation, The Observer has decided to expand Its already hip selection of dally comic strips. In addition to Doonesbury, 
Bloom County, The Far Side, and Beer Nuts, a fifth cartoon will begin next semester. It Is up to you--The Reader-­to decide which one you want to see every day at lunch. The choices are: Shoe: Written by Jeff Macnelly, an edi­torial cartoonist for the Chicago Tribune, Shoe concentrates on the life surrounding a newspaper newsroom. All the main characters are birds. Shoe himself Is the editor of the newspaper. The Perfessor, or Uncle Cosmo, Is the main fixture of the Shoe universe. He Is the fat grizzly veteran reporter of the Treetops Tattler Tribune. Other main characters Include Skyler, a bespec­tacled little guy with a distaste for sports and school, Roz, the owner of a diner who sets up food jokes, and Loon, the daffy, slapstick skywriter who usually ends up In some kind of bad trouble by the end of the strip. Vegas oddsmakers give Shoe a I 0 to I shot at winning the Great Comic Election. Rubes: Rube Is the real dark horse candidate In this contest. Usually a cartoon Is picked up by a major synd­Icate, sort of like an agent for cartoons, and In that way peddled to various newspapers. Leigh Rubin, the art-
of Rubes, Is syndicating him­' a move which makes him deserv­of consideration If only for sheer The cartoon Itself though Is good , sort of In the "Incomprehensible Mother" vein mentioned earlier. Its _,""''<>rr matter runs from cowboys to to comic strips themselves. It Is rrently being run In at least ten col­newspapers and many others. lmmy The Greek was unavailable for something about a booze but other anonymous Vegas od~ ~,., ... ,,._.,.r., are giving Rubes a 20 to I 
Goose and Grimm: THis Is one the favorites. Written by pretty-boy 
Copyright 1987, Tribune Media Services Reprinted with 
All rights reserved 
MOTHER GOOSE &GRIMM 
by Mike Plllllrs 
. ~ 
(J 
'· 

Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson 
Rubes® By Leigh Rubin 

editorial cartoonist Mike Peters from the cultural center of time, space, and dimension, Dayton, Ohio, Mother Goose and Grimm Is one of the most flexible cartoons on the pages today. Usually, It concerns that perennial fa­vorlte cartoon topic, Master and Dog (respectively), as well as thousands of other topics from fairy tales gone wrong to modern adaptations of old cliches. Occasionally, a political bent will slip In, but It Is primarily humor. Often It slides Into an elongated ver­slon of the Far Side, and It usually takes on an even weirder slant. I met Mike Peters once. The word "manic" doesn't even cover it. Bets are running high on this one, but the odds are a meager 5 to 1. Calvin and Hobbes: Calvin is a perfectly normal Insane little kid. He's just like you or your little brother. He has a stuffed tiger named Hobbes who Is only Inanimate when somebody else Is around. In Calvin's mind, Hobbes Is a real tiger. Calvin's long-suffering par­ents are major fixtures of his life as well as major objects of his antics. The little girl in the neighborhood, Susie Perkins, Is another object of Calvin's abuse. Another main character Is Cal-uin's mind which constantly keeps readers on their toes since Calvin could be a raging Tyrrannosaurus Rex in one strip and Spaceman Spiff In another. The wrlterlcutist of Calvin and Hobbes Is Bill Watterson, who claims little respon­slblity for his creation. Hopefully, time won't turn Calvin Into another cutesy cartoon. The drawings are simple, but well-ranging--grotesque, fantastic, and exaggerated. Hopefully that will keep It from becoming too cutesy. This Is the odds-on favorite to win, but still the odds are 4 to I. 

So It's election time again. No, It Isn't for the guys who make the front page so gloomy, but for the guys who make the back page so great. Cast your vote now. Literally, see you In the funny papersll 

--------------------------------------------·
Circle the cartoon of your choice and bring this ballot to The Ob­ ~ ~­~-·  II  
server  office  on  the 3rd floor of  1  
La Fortune today or Thursday. _____Hall:  1I  
Comments:  I  

-----------------~-----··
,......... _____,
~----------~--·---~ -~-------~ --~-~­
Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 10
The Observer 

-
Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball referees must return shirts and whistles today from 3-4 p.m. in the An Tostal Office (2nd Floor LaFortune). All pay will be distributed at that time. -The Observer 
The Irish Guardwill hold an organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out this fall on Thursday, April 30, at 4:30 on Green Field. No previous marching experience necessary. Must be at least 6-2. For more in­formation, call Mick at 1770. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in writing at The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
NHL playoffs 

Montreal edges Quebec, 3-2 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Ryan Walter scored on a 15-foot wrist shot with 2: 39 left to play in the game to give the Montreal Canadiens a 3-2 victory over Quebec Tuesday night and a 3-2 lead over the Nordiques in the best-of-seven Adams Division final. 
The Canadiens will look to wrap up the NHL playoff series in Game 6 Thursday night at Quebec. 
Prior to Walter's game-winner, both the Canadiens and the Nordiques had goals disal­lowed by referee Kerry Fraser. The Montreal victory was the first by a team on home ice during the Adams Division finals. 

Walter's goal, his second of the game, came about 30 seconds after Alain Cote had apparently given Quebec a 3-2 lead, but Fraser ruled that coincidental minor penalties he had called on the play led to the goal, and nullified Cote's score. 
Islanders 2, Flyers 1 
PHILADELPHIA-Rookie Randy Wood scored the win­ning goal at 3: 27 of the third period as the New York Islanders defeated the Philadelphia Flyers 2-1 Tues­day night and stayed alive in the NHL playoffs. 
The Flyers, leading the best­of-seven Patrick Division final series 3-2, still need only one victory to advance to the Stan­ley Cup semifinals. The teams head back to New York for Game 6 Thursday night. 

Tile~ Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile~ Saint M.,Ys office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES Wordprocessing· Typing 272·8827 TYPING AVAILABLE  lost...a gold loop earring somewhere near Sarin, Lewis and Stepan Courts on Friday. Sentimental Value I! !ound, call x2297. Reward. LOST: Light tan LONDON FOG jacket mistakenly taken from Senior Bar last Fri.nite. Size: 38 Reg. I! you have it please call John x3667.  BOSTON-ROOMMATE NEEDED CALL ZACK 1154 NEED RIDE-POKEEPSIEA: FISHKILL NY LV MON -2885 (KEEP CALLING) Need summer employment? Why not come to camp this summer? Positions open for counselors, waterfront, nurse, and business manager. Send for appli­ SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­Non-texts lor $$$/credit next !all. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 1 0·530 ph. 233~2342 "My LSAT prep course Ia taught by an attorney. I go to Kaplan." Classes begin &121or the 6115 LSAT/272-4t35.  Holy St. Jude, Martyr and Saint To you I make my plea I do not write this in complaint But please have pity on me I study so hard, study all night And prepare so well for the test But when I sit down I get such a fright I remember my name and forget the rest  RALLY FOR JUSTICE RALLY FOR JUSTICE RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD BLDG DE PATII You're leaving us ?? When are you going to take me out and " show ·me how to party " ?! Friday ?(Please)!! DE Chris  
287·4082 UNIVERSITY RESUME Professional Resumes Student Rates Near the Mall 272-6336 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--­Non-texts for $$$tredit next tall. PAN·  LOST: CANON TX 35mljl CAMERA sometime· Saturday, 425, probably at Blu&Gold game, about 11.! way up in Sec. 7. It was in a black camera case, woven strap(orange, black, grey,) no lens cap. Filled with Kodak color film, 400 ASA. University team photos on film and needed DESPERATEL Y!l!! This has been part of my life for over 10 years; please don't take It from me now. No questions asked. Call Katie at 239· 5200(day) or 232·5238 (evenings.) LOST: light blue book bag containing Electronics, Physics, and Calculus  cation: ILGSC, 2421 S. Nappanee, Elkhart, IN 46517. I REALLY need a ride to D.C. or N. Carolina on 5'11 or 5'12. I won't take up much space. John 3362. FOR SALE FOR SALE:1978 VW RABBIT,GOOD CONDITION,$1 ,200,239·5693.  Well it's the last week of classes! Hal· lelujah!l I can't wait to get out o! here!! I just know there are some reai women somewhere out there and I'm going to lind one or else I'm going to die a single man. I just refuse to lower my standards! 70s tunes 70s tunes 70s tunes Sunday night at 11 on WVFI "December '63" "Rhinestone Cowboy" "Billy, Don't Be a Hero" Bay City Rollers Bee Gees Shaun Cassidy and much more with the king of tacky music Donald Seymour  In just a few days I'll be tested again And this is for what I pray That you may find the t1me to send A simple blessing my way -A Friend in Need St. Jude, help me remember. -A Friend in Need ....................................................... ANN SEIFERT: "REJOICE" U made it 2 Wednesday!! See you at the show. (I'm usually on stage to the right of that guy they call BONO.) the EDGE  KATIE CAHILL Can I say, some people just improve soc1ety because of the type o! person they are. I don't know where you will be next year, bull do know that the very nicest people will celebrate you wherever you go just because of your character. What's up with a good-bye from the big guyl LITTLE SAND. Look for a personal to­morrow !rom RAA TS, I ran out of money on Cahill's personal TO NAKED IN YOUR GLASSES SAME  
DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEK! 10·530, ph. 233·2342 PRO-TYPE Qulllty work, word proct~~~alng avail­able. Reaeonable $. 277·5833. Word Processing near NO. Call Mary 232·2436 THE JPW MUGS ARE HEREII PICK THEM UP IN 718 PE WED, 8 TO 7 pm; THURS, 10 TO 11 pm. Bring your ID. Extrao ar8 available. Problema? Call Maureen £4455  books. Prescription glasses are also in· side. Lost at South Dining Hall during lunch on 'Monday. Please return to Vince 2578 LOST: CHROME DIGITAL WATCH somewhere on campus. This watch was a graduation gift !rom my parents, so it has considerable sentimental value. I! you find it please let me know. The watch has the name "Jesse" engraved on the back, and the initials "BCHS." Call jesse at x2055. LOST Women's Gold Seiko Quartz Watch on Saturday Near the Mudpits. if Found Please Call 283·2112.  FOR SALE 1976 Monte Carlo, swivel seat, AMIFM stereo cassete player, 80,000 original miles, a good winter car, $400 or best offer. Must sell by or be!ore graduation. Call 232·6428 after 6PM. FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283· 3883,NICK MOVING OFF CAMPUS? NEED FURNITURE? CALL PERRY 272·2252 MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA  CHICAGO-BOUND GRADS!! Female Roommate needed. 2 Br/t bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1st. For more info: call Pam (312) 348-6688,SMC'86 P.S.· 8 143 B. What do Ann Ferry and HI-C have In common? They are both artificially colored. Warden, can I borrow your car? Where's the tanning salon in this prison?  YIRA, Thank you for being such a good friend! I will miss you next year, but you'll get lots of letters. When you're not studying Japanese in France, be sure to practice your hackey! The only thing left to say is ''vamos ala playa!" (Oh oh oh oh oh) Tie-dye £2 AIM:You're in control duderl 10 more!! RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1 --3:15 AD BLDG RALLY FOR JUSTICE RALLY FOR  PLACE AT 9:30 Good job JOE(Mr. Tae Kwon Do)Rochel A brown belt... WOW!!! Hot Joe, Really Hot!! Love. The Stanford Studs and PW WO­MEN Thank you!! We would like to thank everyone who helped organize tuck·ins for An Tostal. If it wasn't for you guys and girls, people wouldn't have slept as well that night. Thanks again everybody. Kerstin and Kathleen Poor old Keratin Ill She's !inally reached that age where teen  
'  LOST/FOUND I I.___FO_RR_E_NT___.  BIKE AND CAR RACK FOR SALE, CALL FRANK-3043, $50 OR BEST OFFER  ATTN: GREY BABES & THE DOGS YOU RUN WITH RESPECT & PROTECT THE BLACK WOMEN!  JUSTICE RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD BLDG  years stop and responsibility and sex drive take over. Happy Birthday to Kerds. Poor Anna Babes. her baby is 20 today. Kerstin:  
FOUND: A BASKET BALL. ON BOOKSTORE COURTS ON MONDAY,  6 bedroom 4-6 students $40(}500 utilities. Security system 234 6688  &  2 U2 TICKETS FOR SALE FOR THURS IN DETROIT CALL DIANE 3615  THANK YOU ST. JUDE P.N. THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WASH·  Secret Admirer, if you really want me to get the whipped cream, you must identify yourseH-Mark P  It's that time of year again, that special day when everyone celebrates the fact that you exist. I want to celebrate it more  
APRIL 13TH. IF IT IS YOURS , CALL MIKE AT 1657. LOST MEN'S GOLD COLOR WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND. IT WAS MY CHRISTMAS PRESENT. DOES NOT HAVE MUCH STREET VALUE, BUT PLENTY OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME IF SHE FINDS OUT! POSSIBLY LOST BE· TWEEN MORISSEY AND KEENAN LAST SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL RAFAEL AT 3348, OR DROP OFF AT LOST AND FOUND IN LAFORTIJNE. Lost Faded Out Jean Jacket at Theodore's on April23 . I think there was a mix-up ·yours is in the Lost and Found in La Fortune. It has sentimental value to mei!JJI.Piease contact Cindy at SMC £4219. Lost: HANDMADE SILVER PEACE SIGN EARRING, possibly in the ACC fencing gym two weeks ago. Extreme sentimental value. I! !ound please call 284·4338 Caitlin HELPIII I LOST MY WALLET AT SMC THURSDAY NIGHT DURING THE MR. CAMPUS COMPETITION. I THINK IT WAS LOST IN THE MENS RESTROOM IN ANGELA. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE CONTACT ME (154 DILLON OR £4783). YOU CAN HAVE THE MONEY AS A REWARD. RON FLYNN f-IEY\111 TO WHOEVER SAVED MY CAMERA FROM BEING DIPPED IN MUD ALONG WITH ME.. THANKS!!! BUT, PLEASE, I NEED IT BACK NOW. CALL ME AT 272·9361. ·THE GIRL WITHOUT A NIKON I WANT MY JEAN JACKET!!!!! IF YOU "MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY NIGHT, I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY IDI). PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT BACK--..NO HARD FEELINGS. MONICA £1337  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683­8889 FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­36841288·0955 Apt. for rent this summer Call Heidi 233·4176 STUDENT HOUSES 2, 5, and 6 man houses on Corby available lor next year. Call Chat at 234· 7664 APT. FOR RENT-CHICAGOOAK PARK, FEMALE ROOMATE, SUMMER, 239· 7712 ........................................................ Subletting House-Bulla Rd. 8 blocks !rom campus. Fireplace, 3 bed rooms. Mike 272·3763. WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LANil'WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JENNY MORN­INGS 914·381-4224. FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR CHICAGO-LINCOLN PARK AREA STARTING JUNE 1, 87. CALL KAREN AT 272-7421. RIDER NEEDED TO S.F. BAY AREA THE CAR IS LARGE AND THE RIDE IS FREE JUST HELP DRIVE BILL P. 1165 Ride Mex or So West U.S. John 287 0931 Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay big $$$. Call 3586.  TICKETS Need Grad. Tix Will Pay $$$ Call Pete 272-6078 Helplcan't see Neil D.:tickets for sale call Drew 1091 NEED 1 GRAD TICKET $$$ CALL SUE 284-4113 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL777 II so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues o! the newspaper. The jobs are varied and, i! you are interested in newspaper training in your spare time, call The Observer offices and ask lor Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. The Observer and Special Olympics NEEDS YOUI!t Special Olympics Meeting! Special Olympics Meeting! There will be an informational meeting TONIGHT at 7 in the LaFortune Little Theatre for anyone who inquired about working for The Observer this summer on Special Olympics. Anyone else inter­ested 1:1 working on this project, or who  INGTON, D.C. will be sponsoring a Big Brother-Big Sister Program lor Notre Dame students coming to Washington thla summer. Students will be matched with local alumni and alumnae, who can provide advice and Information on finding housing, job hunting and generally adjusting to life In Washington. To participate, Inter· eated students should call or write to elthar of the following people: Mary ·Beth Wachowski, 3013 Mosby St., Alexandria, VA 22305, 703·549·5448; or Maure Kahn, 8201 Greensboro Dr., £708, Mclean, VA 22102, 703-847· 0555. RIGHT TO LIFE ELECTIONSRIGHT TO LIFE ELECTIONSRTL This is your last chance to put in officer applications. They are due by Wednesday. Questions? Call 284·4096. Todd Smith, not everyone is seeping you. ·Jeni LAST CHANCE TO BUY YOUR TIE·DYE SHIRT. LIMITED SUPPLY. 284·5343 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED INDIANAPOLIS AREA CALL MARYBETH 284-5134 RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE Officer Application deadline is Wed. April 29 CONTACT: Theresa Harrington 315 Regina S. SMC­4096 Tim Marchesi 41 0 Keenan ND-3368 Kris Murphy 228 Howard ND-2550 to pick up or drop off applications New officers will be notified by Friday Last chances this yr to see MONARCH fri9pmSoQuadesatSR.BAR·NDs BEST BAND getout & see'em WANT TO MAKE HUNDREDS OF DOL­LARS WORKING ONLY A FEW NIGHTS A MONTH? Graduating D.J. needs to sell  SKEETS: DOES IT TASTE LIKE CANDY? VANILLA AIN'T AS SWEET AS CHOC· OLATE! NJ Club TRUCKS CALL TO RESERVE SPACE & GET INFO JOHN 2215 DEB 284-5147 KEVIN 1791 WE NEED ENOUGH RESERVATIONS IN ORDER TO RUN A SENIOR & UNDERGRAD TRUCK. CALL BY FRI 5PM.DRIVERS MIGHT BE NEEDED ALSO. CALL SOON!! SENIORS· NEW YORK CITY BOUND! WHO ARE YOU? INTERESTED IN A HAPPY HOUR SENIOR WEEK? CALL ELLEN 1262 OR KRIS 2894 HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN WASSIL! Michelle Kennedy, Diane Toohey and the P.E. gang. You looked cute in the Ob­server. ································································ MONARCH at Senior Bar Saturday 11 :30 pm ............................................................. Friday Night South Quad Campus Bands The Bottom Line, Bill Bob & Biff, the Law, and MONARCH GIRLS! GIRLS! GIRLS! Nick Panepinto has !inally reached his "High Earning Potential" by getting a job with CompuServe. Now's your chance to meet this soon· to-be-rich MBA! Call to set up your date. DAMIAN CHIN: WHISTLING AT GIRLS! JUGGLES 2 GIRLS AT THE NAMES OF 4! GIRLS HANDS? L.G.· Only on the course or rink II Serious· ly, NO IT WAS NOT!!! Sorry ·SGP GRADUATION TICKETS  than anyone. Thanks for being alive in my lite. Happy Birthday. Love, Jimmy Patty Franco. Thanks for a terrific year. Sorry you have to go, I'll miss you. Good luck. Love, Michael. PS. I HOPE Maureen is feeling better, she's been feeling ill. SMC SMC SMC MANDITORY MEETING FOR ALL IN­TERESTED IN ORIENTATION '87 GENERAL COMMIT­TEE APRIL 29 AND 30 AT 5:30 IN HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 304 PLEASE ATIEND ONE OF THE TWO MEETINGS SMC SMC SMC GRACE 6D RESIDENTS (eauxiliary members) Thanks lor letting 'me be the Social Blunder o! the year. "One day we'll all look back and laugh." Have a great summer, Liz P.S. Don't forget. section activity Thurs. at8:00! Jim, A <JOodbye is necessary before you can meet again. And meeting again is certain for those who are friends. Relax, have a beer, it's only college. Love, Sheila, Susan & Terry Fun Fred lrom Kansas, The greatest theft of all was foiled by the Assistant Lt. of the South Bend Police Dept. early Sat· urday a.m. Although we were not ar· rested he did not like our practical joke and called SMC Security to return the stolen item. We'll just have to replace it with something a liHie smaller so it doesn't hang out of the car! Don't worry  
HELP! I LOST MY GOLD NECKLACE AND CROSS ON STEPAN FIELD DURING THE AN TOSTAL PICNIC. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE; REWARD OFFERRED. CALL CHRIS COOKE AT 3286. THANK YOUII  Need Ride to KY DERBY Leave Fri 5'1 Paul4052 1984 Grad. Looking lor rommate to share 2 bedroom condo in Lincoln Park area of Chicago. Call Jim (h) (312) 248·4262  is attending summer school and doesn't want just to study lor six weeks, should also attend. I desperately need 2 Graduation tickets. If you help me, I will ensure your financial future, and !inance your Senior Week Call  stereo system. It's too much of a money­making opportunity to pass up! Best offer. Call Nick at 1060 lor details. JERSEY BOUND??? NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM· MER. WILL SHARE ALL EXPENSES.  for sale Call Artie at 1787 RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD BLDG  though, Kim and I are safe. The Sah of Your Earth and Kegs ................................................................ Hey Spud This chic digs YOU!  
To the person who took my denim jacket on Thurs night at Cleveland and Hoi·  (w) (312) 263·261 0 ext. 2322  Mark at 2339. OK this is my final offer for Graduation  HELPII PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041.  RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD BLDG  
 
lyhock, thank you for returning my I.D. bUt I would appreciate getting my jacket back. No questions will be asked. Please call me at 4553  JERSEY BOUND??? I NEED A RIDE TO CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM· MER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. HELPII PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041.  tickets. I'll give you my sister and my roommate for two Graduation tickets. They do not even have to be together. CaH Mark at 2339.  THERESA I WILL GET YOUII SNUGGLE BEAR UVESI  Mike, I had an awesome time at the for· mal Friday night. I'll miss you lots this summer. Love. Margaret P.S. Thenka for the "swell" evening.  i:i;;;;~··;;:..·o;;ii:-~;·;;,;~"".:;;;;;k··i~'ii''i~~ french McNuggets and UHAHa. GOod lucie on exams.  
································································  
·············::·······················~···.······················  




April 29, 198? The Observer page 11' 


EDUCATIONAL MEDIA 

Quality 35mm Slide 

~IIHQtllt'RJb 

Up to 20 Dupes of one Slide@ SOc ea. ( Color Correction and Discounts on larger quantities also available ) Contact Christopher in Rm. 13 CCE 239-5465 
~P!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

Allied Shipping 
Let us pack and ship your electronic equipment,
We cater to weddings 

stereo, etc. direct to your
and rehearsal dinners. 

home by UPS· Emer;. 
219-277-76.16
Within walking distance to the 

Hours: 9-6 Mon-fri
University of Notre Dame. 

University Commons SR Western Union
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 

Available 
----....liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiii
.... ~ ................... ~ ~ ~ ..._... ~ 
Irish Lacrosse 
Through Sunday 

PLAYER, POS.  G-GS  SH  G  A  PTS  GB  
John Mclachlan, A  9-9  40  18  23  41  26  
Johm Ohlmstead, A  9·9  46  17  16  33  32  
Jim Shields, A  9-9  30  14  3  17  17  
Dave O'Neill, M  9-9  40  9  4  13  47  
John McNicholas. M  9-9  31  8  5  13  41  
Tom Lanahan, M  9-0  32  8  3  11  20  
Jeff Shay, A  9-0  14  6  2  8  8  
Art Brady. M  9·9  13  5  1  6  42  
Mike Quigley, M  9-0  22  4  2  6  26  
Brian McHugh, A  7-0  8  4  2  6  4  
Dave Kidder, M  7-0  8  3  0  3  10  
Jim Boylan, A  3-0  4  3  0  3  4  
Dave Carey, A  6-0  5  1  2  3  9  
Jim Fallon, D  9-9  1  0  2  2  19  
John Flickinger, M  6-0  0  0  2  2  11  
Randy McDonald, D  9-0  2  1  0  1  13  
Mark ~zzien. M  7-0  3  1  0  1  3  
John Burtis. M  4-0  3  1  0  1  2  
Mike Brennan, D  7-0  1  0  1  1  11  
Mark Healy, M  6-0  0  0  1  1  4  
Kevin Cullinan, M  7·0  4  0  0  0  10  
Brendan Max, M  3-0  0  0  2  0  0  
Doug Spencer, D  9·0  1  0  0  0  14  
Rob Lynn, A  3·0  1  0  0  0  3  
'"arendan Cahill, D  9·0  0  0  0  0  4  
Wally Slack, D  9·9  0  0  0  0  20  
Dick Mtlone, D  9·9  0  0  0  0  32  
Kevin O'Connor, D  9·0  0  0  0  0  25  
Mike Stevens, D  7-0  0  0  0  0  3  
Jeff Salamon, D  3-0  0  0  0  0  1  
Jeff Glazier, G  9-9  0  0  0  0  20  
NOTRE DAME  9-9  311  103  69  172  485  
OPPONNETS  9·9  322  80  39  119  413  

GOALTENDERS G·GS GA SV PCT SPG GPG Jeff Glazter 9-9 60 103 .563 11.4 8.9 Art Brady 1-0 0 5 1.000 5.0 0.0 
NOTRE DAME 9-9 80 108 .574 12.0 8.9 OPPONENTS 9·9 103 109 .514 12.1 11.4 
Face Oils: Noire Dame has won 117 of 217 (.539) Extra Man-Scores: Notre Dame 61-19 (.311), Opponents 50·9 (.180) Clears-Fails: Notre Dame 151·66 (.689), Opponents 160·69 (.697) 
lnterhall Baseball 
Last Week's Results Gold Division ;Winner's bracket Dillon over Stanford-2 Loser's bracket Stanford-2 over Howard Red Division oser's bracket Stanford-1 over Stanford-3 lvlslon championship eenan over Stanford-1 Blue Division Inner's bracket avanaugh-1 over Grace A oser's bracket angborn over Grace A White Division Inner's bracket orrissey over Dillon oaer's bracket ahm over Dillon, forfeit Schedule Gold Division lvlalon championship ilion vs. Stanford-2 Blue Division lvlslon championship angborn vs. Cavanaugh-1 White Division lvlslon championship orrissey vs. Zahm 
lnterhall Soccer 
Division I 2, Pangborn 1 Thunder over Dillon Division II over Holy Cross A 
MISL 
Eaatarn Dlvlalon 
W L Pet. GB •·Baltimore 32 18 .640 x·Cieveland 31 18 .633 .5 x·Dallas 28 22 .560 4 x-Minnesota 26 24 .520 6 Chicago 23 27 .460 9 The New York Express, at 3·23, folded on Feb. 17 
Weatern Dlvlalon y-Tacoma 33 17 .660 x·Wichita 26 23 .531 6.5 x·Kansas City 26 24 .520 7 x·San Diego 26 24 .520 7 St. Louis 18 32 .360 15 Los Angeles 15 35 .300 18 y-clinched division tille x-clinched playoff berth 
Wedneaday'a Games Dallas at Cleveland Wichita at San Diego 
lnterhall Lacrosse 
Playoff Pairings 
Quarterfinals 
(late games) Alumni vs. Off Campus Crime Keenan-A vs. Morrissey Cavanaugh and Grace receive byes 
Semifinals 
April 30 Cavanaugh vs. Alumni I Oft Campus Crime winner Grace vs. Keenan-A/ Morrissey winne~ 
Championship May 3 Winners of the semifinal games 
P·PIM 3-2.5 1..0.5 2-1.5 2-1.0 1-1.0 2-1.5 2-1.0 3-2.5 4-4.0 0-0.0 0-0.0 0-0.0 1-1.0 5-4.5 0-0.0 0-0.0 1-1.0 0-0.0 5-4.5 0-00 1-1.0 0-0.0 4-4.0 0-0.0 4-3.0 4·4.0 1-0.5 5-3.5 0-0.0 0-0.0 0-0.0 
52-43.5 63·54.0 

ednesda 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Lacrosse at Michigan State 
Thursday Baseball at DePauw 
Friday Golf at Spartan Invitational SMC softball vs. NOTRE DAME 
Saturday Lacrosse at Ohio State Track at MIDWEST CATHOLIC INVI· TATIONAL Baseball vs. Xavier Men's tennis vs. MICHIGAN STATE SMC softball at IUPU-Fort Wayne 
Sunday Baseball at Northwestern Men's tennis vs. KALAMAZOO 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday No sports scheduled 
National League 
East Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  10  8  .556  
Chicago  9  9  .500  1  
New York  9  9  .500  1  
Montreal  8  10  .444  2  
Ptttsburgh  7  10  .412  2.5  
Phlladelphta  6  13  .316  4.5  
West Divisi on  
San Francisco  15  6  .714  
Cincinnati  14  6  .700  .5  
Houston  12  8  .600  2.5  
Los Angeles  11  10  .524  4  
Atlanta  8  11  .421  6  
San Diego  6  15  .286  9  
Tuesday's Results  

San Francisco 6, Chicago 2 Ptttsburgh 6. Los Angeles 1 Atlanta 7, Ctncinnati 3 Montreal 7, Philadelphia 1 San Otego 5, St. Louis 2 Houston at New York, ppd., rain 
Wednesday's Games San Franctsco at Chicago, 1:20 Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, 6:05 Atlanta at Cincinnati, 6:35 Houston at New York. 6:35 
American League 
East Dlvlalon 
W  L  
Milwaukee  17  2  
New York  14  6  
Toronto  11  8  
Baltimore  9  11  
Boston  8  12  
Detroit  7  12  
Cleveland  7  14  
Weal Dlvlalon  
W  L  
Minnesota  12  8  
California  12  9  
Seattle  11  10  
Kansas City  8  10  
Texas  7  11  
Oakland  8  13  
Chicago  6  11  
Tueadey'a Reaulta  

Cleveland 1, Chicago 0 Toronto 5, Minnesota 1 Baltimore 3, Kansas City 0 Texas 3, New York 1 Calilornla 10, Milwaukee 5 Oakland 7, Boston 1 Seattle 6, Detroit 4 
Wednesday's Gamea Chicago at Cleveland Minnesota at Toronto Baltimore at Kansas City New York at Texas Detroit at California Milwaukee at Oakland Boston at Seattle 
Pet.  GB  
.895  
.700  3.5  
.579  6  
.450  8.5  
.400  95  
.368  10  
.333  11  
Pet.  GB  
.600  
.571  .5  
.524  1.5  
.444  3  
.389  4  
.381  4.5  
.353  4.5  

Sports Lists 


Source: MacMillan Baseball Encyclopddla and SFS Research 
Irish Baseball 

Through Monday BATTER GP AB R H 28 38 HR RBI BB so SB BA 
Pal Pesavento, SS 37 142 35 47 6 Dan Peltier, OF 37 132 18 44 6 Kevin Smith, OF 14 20 6 8 1 Mike Moshier, 2B 34 94 13 29 4 Ray Szajko, IF-OF 16 37 6 11 2 Scott Rogers, OF 30 95 12 22 6 Pal O'Brien, C-OF 25 66 14 20 0 Tim Hutson, 1 B 36 115 15 24 4 Sieve Skupien, 3B 34 124 22 30 5 Mike Flynn, OF 33 112 10 32 5 Craig Pavlina, C 15 42 5 6 2 John Loughran, OF 37 121 12 24 3 John Flanagan, OF 7 7 1 1 0 Don Diebel, OF 7 14 1 2 0 David Yawman, C 1 1 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 37 1129 171 303 44 OPPONENTS 37 1096 194 316 52 
Left on base: Notre Dame 277, Opponents 256 
PITCHER GP GS CG IP H Mike Harmon 9 1 1 20.2 17 Erik Madsen 6 0 0 17.0 27 Tom Howard 8 0 0 24.0 30 Brian Poitrowicz 10 8 3 54.1 59 Kevin Chenail 6 7 2 43.0 42 Robert Fitz 6 4 1 21.0 23 Mike Passilla 8 6 4 45.2 57 Tom Shaw 3 3 1 16.0 12 John Gleeson 7 0 0 6.2 6 Rob Kramer 1 0 0 1.0 3 Mike Coffey 4 4 0 15.1 25 Derk Madden 3 2 0 6.2 9 Paul Mauk 5 0 0 3.1 4 

NOTRE DAME 37 37 12 278.2 316 149 123 194 158 13 24 5.04 OPPONENTS 37 37 16 286.0 303 129 204 171 138 24 13 4.34 
Saves: Notre Dame 3 (Gleeson, Harmon, Madden) Opponents 6 
NBA Playoffs 
First Round (Best of Five) Tuesday's Results 
Boston 105, Chicago 94 (Boston wins series 3-0) 
Houston 117, Portland 108 (Houston leads series 2·1 ) 
Seattle 117, Dallas 107 (Seattle leads series 2-1) 

NHL Playoffs 
Division Finals (Best-of-Seven) Tuesday's Results 
Patrick Division 
N.Y. Islanders 2, Philadelphia (Philadelphia leads series 3-2) 
Adams Division Montreal 3, Quebec 2 (Montreal leads series 3-2) 
1 0 18 19 11 13 .331 0 5 32 16 10 1 .333 0 0 3 0 2 1 .400 0 1 7 12 12 5 .309 0 0 2 3 7 1 .297 3 0 14 19 22 7 .232 0 0 6 4 18 0 .294 0 5 18 15 29 0 .209 1 3 12 14 19 5 .242 0 5 26 5 42 0 .286 0 0 3 2 10 2 .190 0 0 5 11 19 1 .198 0 0 0 3 1 1 .143 0 0 2 3 1 0 .143 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 5 19 149 129 204 37 .268 9 21 174 149 123 61 268 
BB so R ER w L ERA 12 12 9 5 1 2 2.18 7 6 12 9 0 1 4.76 6 12 13 11 0 0 4.13 31 25 32 27 2 6 4.47 21 18 29 22 1 5 4,60 13 7 16 12 1 1 5.14 18 19 29 26 2 4 5.12 11 10 11 6 2 1 3.00 8 2 6 6 2 1 6.10 0 1 1 1 0 0 9.00 9 7 15 14 2 1 6.22 7 2 11 10 0 1 10.38 6 2 10 7 0 1 18.90 


------~ --~-~~--~--~--·-------~~---------------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 12 
Senior co-captain 

Nobles adjusts to changes 
"After Jeff got hurt," said
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Nobles, "I knew our chances of
Sports Writer 
qualifying for the NCAA's were 

Senior Robert Nobles exudes slim. Even with (junior Nick) 
a cool confidence as he crosses Sparks and (sophomore David) 
the campus wearing the look of Warth running well I didn't 
calm assurance that seems 

think we could do it without natural for a track all­Jeff." 
American. This realization, along with 
the added responsibility of 
being a fifth-year senior left to
Yet the friendly smile and 
anchor the team alone after the 
disarming charm that accom­
loss of VanWie, forced Nobles
pany him off the track seem to 
to make some adjustments.
vanish beneath the intense, al­
"The situation has forced
most intimidating veneer of a 
Rob to take on some extra
determined athlete as he steps 
responsibilty. said Van Wie.
on the track to begin a race. 
"But he has adjusted well. He
At this time last year, Nobles 
handles the guys really welland three teammates, senior 

Jeff Van Wie and graduates were in Oklahoma City, were and gives them a lot of sup­
John McNelis and Jim Tyler about to record one of the five port." 
fastest times ever in the two­The road to success has been 
mile relay and place third at paved with many such adjust­
the NCAA Indoor Champion­ments for Nobles, as he has to 
ships. deal with pressures, both aca­
Quarterbacks flood Draft 
It was an opportunity most demic and athletic. 
athletes only dream about, an Nobles was forced to sit out Associated Press tainty about his health. If he is would be a good deal for them." event that can be considered a year because of to academic healthy, he's our No.1 quarter­Then came the choice of the not only the ultimate challenge difficulties. But this did stop 
NEW YORK -The NFL draft back." 6-3, 212-pound Stouffer by the to the athlete's skill, but pos­him from successfully respond­became a quarterback auction Testaverde, who had already Cards, who have been trying to sibly the emotional and psycho­ing to the challenge of complet­Tuesday as teams seeking help signed an $8.2 million contract, deal Neil Lomax since the end logical climax of a career. For ing his academic career as at football's most critical posi­was one of three Miami players of last season. Stouffer had ex­Nobles, the NCAA Champion­business major. He now waits tion reached for question taken in the first nine picks. hibited a strong arm in training ships held this kind of impor­to begin the university's MBA marks in hopes of pulling an­With the second pick overall, sessions but had ended the col­tance. tax program that will prepare other Joe Montana or Dan Indianapolis took Cornelius lege season projected as a "The NCAA's were like a him to be a tax professional. Fouts out of a relatively thin Bennett, the Alabama third-or fourth-rounder be­dream come true," said "I've gained a great deal of talent pool. linebacker billed as the second cause of an inconsistent senior Nobles. "All along I tried to be maturity from the competive­
Four quarterbacks were cho­coming of Lawrence Taylor. season. cool, calm and collected, but ness, both in the classroom and sen in the first round, the most The Colts took Bennett despite And while he moved up in the once I stepped up to the line in athletics," said Nobles. since the talent-laden 1983 speculation they might trade or last few weeks, he was not ex­everything seemed to blurr." "And the religious values and draft. But only Heisman take a running back because of pected to be the sixth pick in Fortunately he recovered to friendships I've gained should Trophy winner Vinny Tes­the broken leg sustained by the draft. run the second leg of the really help me later in life." taverde of Miami, taken by Randy McMillan, their best "We wouldn't have taken record-setting two-mile relay Nobles has etched himself in Tampa Bay with the first pick, running back, in a car accident him if we didn't think he was and earn all-American status. the Notre Dame record books was considered a sure NFL last weekend. that good," said George Boone, These honors were two of the for his performances, most 
star. Buffalo and Houston ex­personnel director for St. main goals which have been the notably in the mile and two-The other three, Kelly Stouf­changed places, with the Oilers Louis, which needs help on driving force behind his nine­mile relays, but also for his suc­fer of Colorado State, chosen throwing in their second pick defense. year track career. cess in the middle distance by St. Louis; Chris Miller of to move from eighth to third. So where does an all­races that include IC4A Oregon, taken by Atlanta, and They promptly took Things got more predictable American athlete go from qualifications in the 500 and 
Jim Harbaugh of Michigan, Highsmith. after that. there? When Nobles entered 800-meter runs and strong per­
taken in a shocking move by Green Bay followed by choos­Detroit took Washington de­the outdoor season this year, formances in the 600-meter the Chicago Bears, all had ing running back Brent Ful­fensive end Reggie Rogers; he had hopes of joining another run. serious question marks about lwood of Auburn, and then San Buffalo took Penn State combination of runners that He has also run well in this them. Diego made its deal for Banks, could qualify for the NCAA his final season, though he has 
Unlike recent drafts, when allowing Cleveland to take linebacker Shane Conlan; Championships and possibly not matched his personal-bestoffensive and defensive Philadelphia went for Miami
Junkin. improve upon last year's per­times of previous seasons. The 
linemen were the hot items, "With Bennett not being defensive lineman Jerome formance. season is not over, however, as there was a higher premium on available, we rated the No. 1 Brown; and Pittsburgh passed 
But circumstances were not Nobles can look forward to the skill players in the four-hour, linebacker in the NFL for our up Dozier to take Purdue de­in his favor as fellow co-captain Central Collegiates and IC4A's. 
eight-minute first round. Be­fensive back Rod Woodson,
needs as Chip Banks," San Van Wie suffered two stress "I have no idea if this story
who had been expected to go

sides the quarterbacks, three Diego Coach Al Saunders said fractures in his leg. The will have a happy ending," said 
wide receivers went in the first of the 28-year-old former Pro earlier. Nobles, "but looking back, I
chances of finding another
round and so did six running Bowler. "I think Chip felt like New Orleans, which would magic combination of runners had my turn in the spotlightbacks, including Alonzo he would like to be on the West have liked to have had Wood­
for the two-mile relay all but and I can leave knowing I ac­
Highsmith of Miami to Houston Coast. We initiated the trade son, took Brigham Young de­complished my goals." 
vanished.

and D.J. Dozier of Penn State and the Browns felt like it fensive lineman Shawn Knight. to Minnesota in two of the nine deals which made the first and second rounds seem like a trade mart. 
Disgruntled linebacker Chip Banks went from Cleveland to San Diego in a trade which moved the Browns from 24th to fifth in the first round and netted them linebacker Mike Junkin of Duke, whom Browns Coach Marty Schottenheimer termed "one of the finest col­lege linebackers I've ever seen." 
No one was saying that about the quarterbacks behind Tes­taverde, but there were prece­dents for taking the chances. 
Fouts and Montana, two of the modern era's most succes­ful quarterbacks, were third­
Freshmen Orientation Executive
round picks, Fouts by San Diego in 1973 and Montana by San Francisco in 1979. 
de~~~~:~o t;~a~~oi~ik~f D~~r~ 
c0 m mitte e Applicati0 ns 
b;;tugh, a projected third-or­~~~~~hf~~~~~er, in typically are due TODAY I·n 
"There are a combination of 

reasons,'' Chicago personnel 
h 5 

~:~~~!OisB~~;o~~s:~~;t"~~~; t e tudent Government office. 
where Jim is. There is uncer-••.,. !NIIM•!mill•••••~•~!:i-•~~~·
....~.IIDiaN•••••••••••••••••••••••••••IIIIIW 

Reminder: 
Reminder: 
Reminder: Reminder: 

Observer Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 13 
Correa shuts down Yankees with 7 no-hit innings 
Associated Press runs on homers against Dennis Rasmussen, 2-1. Indians 1, White Sox 0 Expos 7, Phillies 1 
Braves 7, Reds 3

ARLINGTON, Texas -Edwin CLEVELAND -Ken Schrom PHILADELPHIA -Floyd CINCINNATI -RafaelCorrea, trying to become the Mariners 6, Tigers 4 tossed a four-hitter and Mel Youmans hit a solo homer and Ramirez went 4-for-5 and drove youngest · American League SEATTLE -Ken Plielps hit Hall stroked a bases-loaded combined with Andy McGaf­in three runs, including a two­pitcher to throw a no-hitter in two solo home runs and Jim single past a drawn-in infield figan on a four-hitter Tuesday run single during a six-runthe modern era, held New York Presley added a two-run homer with one out in the bottom of night as the Montreal Expos rally in the fifth inning Tuesday hitless for 7 1-3 innings until in support of Mike Morgan's the ninth inning Tuesday night beat the Philadelphia Phillies night that carried the AtlantaWillie Randolph singled Tues­pitching as the Seattle to give the Cleveland Indians a 7-1 in a game twice delayed by Braves to a 7-3 victory over
day night and the Texas Rang­Mariners beat the Detroit 1-0 victory over the Chicago rain. 
Cincinnati, ending the Reds'ers beat the Yankees 3-1. Tigers 6-4 Tuesday night. White Sox. 

Youmans, 1-2, allowed only four-game winning streak. 
Correa, pitching one day Morgan, 1-3 after his first three hits over six innings, The Braves sent 11 batters to
before his 21st birthday, lost his start in eight days, allowed Padres 5, Cards 2 seven and walked
struck out the plate in the fifth to over­bid when Randolph cleanly three runs on eight hits in eight ST. LOUIS -Ed Whitson none. McGaffigan gave up one come 2-1

lined a 3-2 pitch to left fiE:ld. a deficit, with
innings, striking out two and pitched six strong innings and hit in the final three innings, Ramirez's two-run single put­
Don Mattingly followed with a walking one. Edwin Nunez Steve Garvey drove in three recording his third save and ex­ting them ahead to stay. It was
double to left-center, knocking picked up his fifth save despite runs to lead the San Diego tending his streak of shutout in­only Atlanta's second victory inCorrea out of the game. Dale allowing a run in the ninth. Padres to a 5-2 victory over the nings to 13. 
its last 10 games.

Mohoric replaced Correa and 
St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday 
Right-hander Randy O'Neal, finished for his second save in Orioles 3, Royals 0 night. 

2-0, pitched seven-plus innings 

the combined two-hitter. KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Mike Pirates 6, Dodgers 1 and allowed 10 hits.
Pittsburgh's Nick Maddox Boddicker threw a one-hitter Blue Jays 5, Twins 1 PITTSBURGH -Junior Ortiz 
was the youngest ever to pitch Tuesday night, yielding only a drove in three runs and Mike A's 7, Red Sox 1 
TORONTO -Jim Clancy

a no-hitter in the major sixth-inning single to Willie Diaz knocked in two Tuesday
tossed a six-hitter and George OAKLAND, Calif. -Dennisleagues, accomplishing the 
Wilson, and Nelson Simmons Bell drove in three runs, includ­night as the Pittsburgh Pirates Eckersley pitched six inningsfeat at 20 years, 10 months on had three hits as the Baltimore ing two with a homer, to power ended a four-game losing of two-hit ball in relief of Oak­
Sept. 20, 1907, against Brook­Orioles defeated the Kansas the Toronto Blue Jays to a 5-1 streak by beating Fernando land starter Joaquin Andujar,
lyn. Milwaukee's Juan Nieves, City Royals 3-0. Valenzuela and the Los An­who lasted only 15 pitches in
victory over the Minnesota

22, pitched a no-hitter against Boddicker, 2-0, retired the Twins on Tuesday night. geles Dodgers 6-1. his first appearance of the
Baltimore on April 15 this first 13 batters before hitting Pirates left-bander Bob Kip­season, and the Athletics 
season. Danny Tartabull on a full count Clancy, 2-2, who had only one per, 2-2, allowed seven hits over defeated the Boston Red Sox 7-1Correa, 1-1, held the Yankees with one out in the fifth. He then victory in his last 10 decisions seven innings for the victory, Tuesday night. 
hitless despite struggling with walked Bo Jackson on a full dating back to 1986, struck out working out of two-on, two-out Andujar faced four batters,
his control. count, but Steve Balboni three and walked three. It was jams in the second and fourth allowing no hits, before leaving Texas, which won its fourth grounded to third and Angel Toronto's second complete­innings. He struck out four and with stiffness in his pitching
straight game, scored all of its Salazar flied out. game of the season. walked one. arm. 

Giants 6, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO -Mike Krukow won his first game of the season and Jeffrey Leonard hit a two­run homer as San Francisco beat the Chicago Cubs 6-2 Tues­day. 
·Mania 
continued from page 16 
Tonk Man in defeating Jake 'The Snake' Roberts. 
Kamala, who weighs in at over 400 pounds, crushed The Snake with his patented Giant Splash, after the Honky Tonk Man intervened by whipping Roberts with the cane of Mr. Fuji, Kamala's manager. 
In Savage's victory, a Lum­berjack Match with 12 wrestlers at ringside to throw the competitors back in when dispelled from the squared circle, Steele attempted to em­ploy his unorthodox tactics of chewing the turnbuckles and spitting them into Savage's face. These tactics were effec­tive, and the match had swung his way until former-referee­turned-bad-guy Danny Davis leapt into,the ring and whacked Steele over the head, with what certainly appeared to be a foreign object. 
The outcome of the match to most fans, however, was sec­ondary to catching a glimpse of Savage's manager, the lovely Elizabeth. That's about all it amounted to--a glimpse. The bodacious Elizabeth graced the ring for only a brief moment and then bid the crowd 'ta-ta,' as she fled Steele's slob­bering advances and headed back to the dressing room. 
Savage made more than one appearance, however, as he darted down the tunnel after Steamboat's match with Her­cules. Steamboat was declared victorious by disqualification as Hercules tried to strangle him with his trademark 30-foot chain. 
After Hercules departed and the official tried to help Steam­boat to his feet, Savage entered the ring, distracted the referee and proceeded to unleash the vaunted flying elbow on his bit­ter rival. This episode has serious implications for tonight's rumored title defense between Savage and Steam­boat in Chicago. 

----~ --~~------------.,.--------------.------------~-------------.. 
Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 

The Observer 
Irish rally with 5, but fall short, 8-5 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team powered its way back into yesterday's game against Purdue, but lost the momen­tum and the game because of a three run surge by the Holier­makers in the eighth inning. The Irish fell to 13-25 on the season after the 8-Sloss at Jake Kline Field. 
The Irish fell behind in the first when an error by second baseman Mike Moshier on a double play attempt allowed a Boilermaker runner to score from second. 
Purdue extended the lead in the third when leadoff hitter Jose Rossy hit a double over the head of Irish centerfielder Scott Rogers. The Holier­maker's Jeff Allison followed with a grounder to third, and the Irish caught Rossy in a run­down for the second out of the inning. But Purdue's Brent Roach followed with a two-run home run off of Notre Dame starter Kevin Chenail to in­crease Purdue's lead to 3-0. 
A sacrifice fly in the fourth by Purdue's Bob Gerhard and a wild pitch by Chenail gave the Boilermakers a 5-0 lead. 
"When you play good compe­tition like we do," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo, "You can't afford the mistakes. We have to make the plays when the opportunity presents it­self." 
The Irish were down, but not out. As Chenail settled down in the middle innings, the Irish hitters came alive. Pat Pesavento opened the fourth with a single to left, and team­mate Dan Peltier followed with a walk. Mter a strikeout, Irish third baseman Steve Skupien drilled a double to left center to score Pesavento. Irish catcher Pat O'Brien shot a single up the middle to drive in the second and third Irish runs. 
The comeback stalled until the seventh when Moshier reached first on catcher's in­terference. Irish teammate Rogers forced Moshier at second, and freshman power hitter Peltier followed with his sixth home run of the year, a towering shot to right field, to tie the game at five. 
The eighth inning proved to be the downfall of the Irish. Chenail began to tire, walking two Purdue batters and giving up a single by Rossy to put the Boilers up 6-5. Gallo brought in relief pitcher Paul Mauk for the Irish, but Mauk fell behind Al­lison of Purdue and gave up a double on a 3-1 count to score 
a\sO··· L!HE BOTTOM LINJ 
Wednesday April 29 9pm only 
Thursday, April 30 6pm & 9pm 
Friday, May 1 7pm & 9pm 
Saturday, 
May 2 7pm, 9pm & 11pm 

The Obs;~er I David Notre Dame's Dan Peltier hit his sixth home Jake Kline Field. The blast tied the game run of the year, a two-run shot against Purdue five, but the Boilermakers scored three in the seventh inning of Tuesday's contest at times to down the Irish 8~5. 
the final two runs of the game. The Irish hit the ball hard in 
the final innings, but could not 
make up the three run deficit. 
"One ball that should've been 
caught, a double play we 
should've made, a wild pitch-­
that's three runs right there," 
said Gallo. "Is Purdue a better 
team than we are? I think we should have beaten them. 
"There's been some pressure on the kids. We haven't come through when we needed to. We can only come back so many times in a game." 
In addition to Peltier's power hitting, catcher O'Brien had three hits for the Irish in the losing cause. 
AUDIO & VIDEO FOR HOME & CARl 
c~-~~~~'
CELLULAR PHONES • MUCH MORE 
IIIII 

R 11 nam d h
usse e coac 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO, Calif.-Bill Russell, five times the NBA's Most Valuable Player and a player-coach of the World Champion Boston Celtics during the 1960s, was named head coach Monday of the Sacramento Kings. 
Kings managing general partner Gregg Lukenbill and president Joe Axelson said Rus­sell signed a seven-year con­tract to serve an unspecified number of years and eventu­ally succeed Axelson 
as eral manager and president. Russell, 53, who has coached in the NBA since left the Seattle Supersonics 1977, has a career record of 324-249. 
Russell was named NBA's Most Valuable Player in 1958, 1961, 1962, 1963 1965, and he was elected to the Hall of: Fame in 1974. In 1980, he was selected the greatest player in the history of the NBA by the Professional Basketball Writ-; ers' Association of America. 

NOTRE DAME 
A.C. C. 

SATURDAY 10 AM • 9 PM SUNDAY 
SAVE TO 50% OFF OR MORE 
1/J'E, tiiii'EI.fE, 1'1/lr 
ALSO SWEAT & SPORT CLOTHES 
& SOCKS ro 80% OFF 
~ KIO'S. IIIEN·s e WOMEN'S 
t..J &ISKE!Mli•TENN!S•RUNN!NG•AERNIC•I'IINESS•FIELP 


LEATHER CAMERAS JACKETS 
OVER 500 MEN'S & WOMEN'S CYCLE & FASHION JACKETS 
50·700/o OFF 
SUPER SALE SPECIAL 
PALM SPRINGS SET 8 CASE IRONS 3 METAL WOODS
=S14985 
BOI.F STARrER I'ACKASE 179 
OUR BEST PRICES EVER! 
SAVINGS 1D 90% OFF 
~HALSTDN 
REVIDN .J(M\N 
.;·~,q.­TAACINGI~ 
OUTPOST 
ULTIM.o\11 
BEST PRICES IN 
~"'~ 
MAX~
SUPER SALE HISTORY 
CATALOG A INHOUSE SALES 


Toda 
m County 


Berke Breathed 


Mark Williams 

Campus 
10:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.: Art Department Pottery Exhibit, Great Hall, 0 'Shaughnessy. 
11:30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m.: Economics Depar­tment Labor Workshop, Ghilarducci and Warlick, professors of economics; 131 Decio 
12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
4:15 p.m.: Distinguished Alumni Lec­ture Series, "Why a Census?" by Jack Keane, Director of National Census Bureau, LaFortune Little Theatre 
4:20p.m.: Physics colloquium, "Detec­tors for the Superconducting Supercol­lider (SSC)," by Dr. Medford Gilchriese, SSOCDG Lawrence-Berkeley Laboratory, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:30 
p.m.: Nieuwland Lecture in Chemistry, "Cell-Specific Expression of Eucaryotic Genes," by Professor William Rutter, 123 Nieuwland Science 

4:30 
p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "Proper Actions of Groups on Finite Dimensional Contractible Complexes," by Professor Radeusz Kozniewski, Univ. of Warsaw, 226 Computing Center & Math Building 

4:30 
p.m.: Air Force ROTC Spring Awards, Memorial Library Auditorium 


7:00p.m.: Saint Mary's College History Department Lecture, ''The Opening of China," by Zhou Zi-Ya, Director of the Law Research Institute, Shanghai, China, 349 Madeleva Hall 
8:00p.m.: Neil Diamond Concert, ACC, all tickets $17.50 each 
8:10p.m.: Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents an NDSMC production of Shakespeare's "Macbeth," Washington Hall, tickets $6 main floor, $5 balcony, for Master Card and Visa orders, call 239-5957 weekdays, noon to 6:00 p.m. 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Baked Ham Spirals & Linguine with Italian Meat Sauce Broccoli and Cheese Casserole Grilled Bologna Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Baked Fish with Sweet & Sour Sauce Fried Veggie Basket Deli 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1-rabbit 6 Snakes 
10 Algonquian 14 Hllo greeting 15 Portico 16 Aa 17 Bus stop 18 Waste 
allowance 19 Blackbirds 
21> Arrow polson 21 A Gershwin 22 Hang loosely 24 Window part 25 Indoor boating 
site? 27 Bullring cheer 29 Violin players 30 Large bone 33 Consecrated 36 Long time 37 Person 38 Mingled with 39 NYC subway 40 Tree someday 42 Pronoun 43 In favor of 44 Gives forth 45 lsr. neighbor 46 Small horse 47 Female ruff 48 Land holder? 51 -Stadium 55 Post ­57 Summer drink 58 Hack 59 "Thanks -" 60 Rectangular 
pier 62 Eastern gold 
coin 63 Wild plum 64 Georgia ­65 Fr. school 66 Headwear 67 London 
district 

Wednesday, April 29, 1987-page 15 
Far Side Gary Larson 

"Well, If I'm lucky, I should be able to get off this thing In about six more weeks." 
01987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
5 Bonnet 6 Houston player 7 Tasty quilt 
piece? 8 Part of E.A.P. 9 Used a chaise 
longue 1 0 Tribes 11 Stove thief? 12 Malevolent 13 Alleviate 21 Maddened 23 Vienna's 
land: abbr. 26 Cry out 28 Journey 
segment 


68 Comic sketches 31 Concerning 
32 Writes 
DOWN 33 Utters 
1 Dry river beds 34 Chin. island 
2 Actress 35 Wooing 
Verdugo quarters? 
3 Runs easily 39 Hebrides 
4 Musical Island 
wedgie? 40 Hewing tool 


4/29(87 
52 Asian capital 

actor's line? 43 General 
layouts 44 Sea bird 46 Before: pret. 49 Major endings 50 Boise's state 
53 Praise highly 
54 Buenos­
55 Spar 
56 Pot 
61 Modern prefix 
62-Plaines 


!~,,~_)d $1.00 : 
•w•••'""""M~i~~:~~~o Absolutely no food or drink allowed! : 
········~ 
................................................................. 
SRorts 
Kleine's 2nd-round selection leads way for Irish in draft 
By PETE GEGEN and THERESA KELLY Sports Writers 
Four Notre Dame football players were taken in the first 10 rounds of the National Foot­ball League Draft held Tues­day in New York. 
Defensive tackle Wally Kleine, quarterback Steve Beuerlein, defensive tackle 
NFL draft -page 12 

Robert Banks and tight end Joel Williams were all chosen by the eighth round. 


The Washington Redskins Steve Beuerlein Joel Williams drafted Kleine in the second round, trading their 24th pick pick overall in the draft. surprised everyone by picking of the round with the L.A. "We feel real fortunate that Joel Williams in the eighthRaiders to get the 20th choice Steve was available this late;" round. in that round, 48th overall. The said Dave Houghton, a spokes­"He's a good blocker," said Raiders received Washington's man for the Raiders. "We have Chuck Connor, director of second and fifth-round selec­a real competitive situation, player personel for the Dol­tions in exchange for that pick. with Rusty Hilger pegged as phins. "I had a chance to talk 
The Redskins intend to use our starter. We know that Steve with the coaches (at Notre Kleine as an offensive lineman. really hasn't had the ability to Dame). They feel he is a late 
"We're really, really high on mature because he's had to bloomer. He came on as a him," said Ron Levine, a work with three offensive co­senior. spokesman for the Redskins. ordinators. "He has great natural ability. "We were looking for a block­We've worked him out on of­"We've seen that Steve plays ing tight end, one who will give fense, and he's a good bet to well in the big games. Against us a chance to get the running make the team." USC, Michigan, Penn State, game going. We felt good about 
he's had great games. He's his blocking."

The Raiders used their tough when the pressure's on. fourth-round draft pick to draft We like that quality in him." Williams was the 210th Beuerlein. He was the llOth The Miami Dolphins player chosen overall. 
'Macho Man' gains revenge over 'The Animal' 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Steamboat in World Wrestling Event, this Saturday night at match, as Hogan took a tag cause the first was won via aCHRIS MURPHY, Federation action Tuesday 10:30 p.m. from Patera and quickly disqualification, the HartsBRIAN O'GARA, night. In the evening's showcase pinned a fatigued Hercules for retained their title because ofRICK RIETBROCK, Savage, who lost the Inter­match, the WWF's most a three-count. a technicality in WWF by-laws.
PETE SKIKO continental title to Steamboat popular wrestler, World Heenan was declared in­The by-law states that a title 
and MARTY STRASEN at Wrestlemania III in Pontiac, Heavyweight Champion Hulk eligible to fight by the doctor can only be transferred in a Sports Writers Mich., gained revenge against Hogan, teamed with 'mystery at ringside because of a match decided by pin or sub­both Steele and Steamboat in guest' Ken Patera in a tag­'severe' neck injury, and in­mission.Black Tuesday, a day Randy grand fashion. Steele had team match against Andre the curred the wrath of the 
In other matches, Nikolai'Macho Man' Savage will re­recently carried off Savage's Giant and Hercules. The match capacity crowd, who Volkov and The Iron Sheikmember forever. manager, the lovely Elizabeth, was originally scheduled to pit responded with chants of were ousted by the Can-AmAs will the sellout crowd at on a nationally-televised bout, Bobby 'The Brain' Heenan with 'Weasel! Weasel!' 

Connection, Rick Martel andthe ACC which saw Savage bru­while Steamboat won the title the Giant as partners. The post­In the tag-team heavyweight Tom Zenk, while Kamala 'The

talize his opponent George 'The on a controversial three-count match flex exhibition of the title match, the British Bul­Ugandan Headhunter' wasAnimal' Steele, as well as In­at Wrestlemania III. Hulkster and Patera, the latter ldogs were declared the win­
aided by a disguised Honky

tercontinental Heavyweight Much of the evening's card of whom was recently released ners over The Hart Foundation Champion Ricky 'The Dragon' will be televised on NBC's Main from jail, lasted longer than the on two consecutive falls, but be-see MANIA, page 13 

Rietbrock bestows honors 
The end of the year always causes one to look The "Steamroll Award" is awarded to the wo­Award" goes to Digger Phelps for calling for theback and reflect on what has passed. It is the ideal men's fencing team, which won the national cham­stop of beer sales at college basketball games at

time to hand out some awards in recognition for pionship after dominating the regular season. Marquette.the accomplishments of certain individuals. The "Local Boy Makes Good Award" has to go Donald Royal and AI Martin get the "Bill Laim­So, without getting sappy or mushy, here are a to Anthony Johnson. The South Bend Adams High beer Memorial Basketball Player-Fighter Award" few honors that cover the past year. School star stepped up to the college level and con­for their near-fracas in the Bookstore Champion­

The "Right Place-Wrong Time Award" goes to tributed, despite arriving with very little fanfare. ship game. Tom Fallon, who after coaching at Notre Dame for 30 years, is retiring just as the Eck Tennis Pavillion 

The "Rodney Dangerfield is Revered Compared becomes operable. 
Rick to Us Award" goes to Art Lambert's volleyball 
The "Incredible Hulk Award" goes to Irish bas­team. The Irish went 33-6, but found themselves ketball coach Digger Phelps for flexing too often Rietbrock with nothing but finals to look forward to when the while wearing a suit. NCAA Tournament rolled-around. 
Irish Items 
The "Holy Amazing Story, Batman Award" has The "We Run the Show Award" goes to bothto be David Rivers' for his strong comeback after David Rivers and Mary Gavin, who showed thean accident cost him his life. 

The "Adopt-A-Player Award" goes to the Irish leadership the point guard spot was designed for. 
Steve Beuerlein receives the "Underappreciated 
basketball fans, who supported Gary Voce through 

The "This One's for You, Gerry Award" goes toAward" for four solid years at quarterback that 
the rough times, and celebrated with him through 

the Irish soccer team for tying the University ofnetted him many of Notre Dame's career passing the good. 
Akron, which finished the year ranked No.2. 
marks, despite feeling the wrath of the fans much 

of that time. The "Horseshoes and Hand Grenades Award" is The "Can We Get a Shot of You Tying Your Shoes awarded to Larry Gallo and the Notre Dame Award" gets handed to Lou Holtz, who received anAnd speaking of fans, the "I Wish It Would Dry baseball team. The Irish have fallen on hard times, incredible amount of press, as expected, in his first 
Up Award" goes to The Wave, the irritating fan­especially in tight contests. year as the Irish head man. 
participation phenomenon that seems to visit every The "What a Great Basketball Crowd Award" tomajor sporting event. 

The "You Think You're Busy Award" goes to Irish fans at the North Carolina game. 
The "Mr. Ubiquity Award" goes to Tim Brown, Steve Wenc, for handling 662 Bookstore Basketball The "What a Bunch of Hoodlums Award" to Irish who spent this spring playing Bookstore Basketball, teams, and then having to go back and censor more fans at the North Carolina game. attending spring football drills and running track. than 100 names. 
Whatever the case, it would be hard to deny that Whew. 
The "I Used to Work for the South Bend Police this has been quite a year for Notre Dame sports . 

