Fast and flurrlous
IACCENT: 'Whistle while you work' Cloudy Tuesday and colder with snow flurries. High in the low to middle 30s. Cloudy Wednesday 

IVIEWPOINT: The power of the ballot box 

with continued cold. 



,TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1987
VOL XXI, NO. 59 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

N D student, friend ND student injured
robbed off-campus 
after car 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO dent told him to take the money Senior Staff Reporter in the house, but not to hurt his 

strikes her
girlfriend, the student said. A Notre Dame student and According to the student, the his girlfriend were robbed at man then forced him upstairs 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKIknifepoint Thursday night and made he and his girlfriend 
News Editor
while watching the home of a lie face down on a bed. The stu­friend at 927 N. Notre Dame dent said the assailant 
A Howard Hall junior was in
Ave. threatened him with the knife satisfactory condition Mondayt-Police reported the assailant when he turned his head to get at St. Joseph Medical Centertook cash, a gold chain and a a look at the assailant. 
after being struck Sunday night leather jacket. The stolen The man also threatened the by a car driven by anotheritems were valued at $650. girl, waving the knife near her Notre Dame student. 
The student said he was face and nicking her ear, the Alicia Mark was struck by aupstairs studying with his student said. 

green 1981 Honda Accord,girlfriend, who was visiting for The assailant tied the two driven by a Keenan Hall junior, the weekend, at 11:30 p.m. with phone cords and ran­at about 9:20p.m. Sunday night when he heard something being sacked the room. The man held as she walked across the roadkicked downstairs. the two captive for 30 to 45 in front of Saint Mary's Lakeminutes, said the student. 
just east of the Old College,The·student sought a weapon The student said the man said Phil Jchnson, assistantand grabbed a wine bottle seemed to be on drugs and com­director of security.
before going downstairs to in­plained of racial oppression. 
Mark suffered a broken right 
vestigate. He also said he had killed leg, a broken finger, a slightThe student said he found the people before. 
concussion and cuts near herfront door had been forced left eye that required stitches, 
open. The assailant left the room according to Mark's residentAs the student entered the and jammed the door shut. He assistant, Kathy Brommeland. 
kitchen, a man leapt at him also turned the television on, Mark will be let out of the hospi­from around the corner and the student said. The girl was tal today, said Brommeland.
struck him in the throat with able to free her hands, and the Mark was conscious whenhis fist. The man also clutched two freed themselves. 
she was transported to the a nine-inch buck knife in the The two waited for 10 to 15 hospital, Johnson said. 
same hand, but he didn't injure minutes, trying to listen for the The driver of the car was not.h\· student with the knife, ac­assailant before leaving the injured, he said. 
eorrJirtg LO the student. room, the student said. Then No tickets were issued,Th(-! Jdent fell backwards the student broke the second Johnson said, adding that alco­from the t·low and tripped over floor window and jumped to the hol was not a factor in the ac­a stool. The man then leapt on ground. He then caught his cident. 
top of the student and covered girlfriend when she jumped. 
Although Johnson said he did the student's face so he could The two then drove the girl's not know how fast the Accord not identify the attacker. car to the main gate at campus was traveling at the time of theThe man demanded the stu­and reported the incident at 
see ACCIDENT, page 4

dent tell him where valuables 12:30 a.m. Friday, according to were kept in the house. The stu-the student. 

Poles reject plan to reform economy 
Associated Press said Monday. , 
The results of Sunday's 
WARSAW, Poland -Voters bold and unique referendum rejected economic and poli­dealt a stunning blow to the tical reforms, including government of Gen. Woj­painful price increases, that ciech Jaruzelski, which Poland's communist leaders strongly campaigned for said were needed to revi­passage of the two questions talize an ailing, debt-ridden economy, the government see POLAND, page 5 

Reagan: SDI needed in summit 
Associated Press  in a· speech to conservatives a  in U.S.-Soviet negotiations for  
week  before  his  summit  a 50 percent reduction in stra­ 
meeting  with  Soviet  leader  tegic nuclear arms, the most  
WASHINGTON  -President  Mikhail  Gorbachev  in Wash­ potent weapons in the super­ 
Reagan said Monday the Soviet  ington.  His  remarks  under­ powers' arsenals.  
Union  may  be  planning  "a  scored  his  determination  to  Presidential  spokesman  
breakout"  from  the  Anti­ push ahead with the Star Wars  Marlin  Fitzwater said,  "The  
Ballistic  Missile  Treaty  that  program  despite  objections  progress of the START talks  
the United States would be "to­ from  Moscow  and  congres­ (strategic arms) is at such a  
tally and dangerously unpre­ sional attempts to restrict it.  state that it seems unlikely that  
pared  for"  without  his  Star  Meanwhile, the White House  we would want to extend (the  
Wars missile defense plan. Reagan made his statement  said it was unlikely the summit will produce any breakthrough  see SUMMIT, page 6  

Senate passes resolution refusing to pay food fight bill 
By GREG LUCAS The resolution, presented by The three solutions that are tion to strongly recommend that "the 1987 Survey of the Stu­
Senior Staff Reporter Brian Holst, student senator, presently being considered by that the Academic Council dent Body indicates that over 
passed by a vote of 10 to 2 with the Senate are: holding a reform the current grading 80 percent of the current Notre 
one abstention. The resolution fundraiser, recommending system to include plus grades. Dame students favor an im­
The Student Senate passed a said that it would be unfair to that the dining hall recover the provement of the grading sys­resolution last week that would use Student Activities fees to money by withholding desserts The resolution, proposed by tem to include plus grades. prevent the use of Student Ac­pay for damages that involved for a weekend, or simply refus­senators, Mike Carrigan, Mike In other news, Mary Berger, tivities funds for payment of only a small portion of the stu­ing to pay, in which case the Murdock and Steve Viz, stated foreign relations committee the $1,400 damages that were dent body. Office of Student Affairs would that the undergradtlate chairman for Student Govern­incurred in the food fight ear­take the money from some grading system puts Notre ment, introduced a bylaw that lier this semester. The bill was Holst said this resolution is other student source, said · Dame graduates at a disadvan­would enable students who are sent to John Goldrick, associate not the senate's final decision Holst. tage because of its incom­studying abroad or planning to vice president for residence on the matter but only a pre­patibility with systems at peer be out of town to vote in campus life, by William Hickey, direc­liminary move to safeguard In other business, the senate institutions. elections. A vote will be taken tor of food services. Student Activities funds. unanimously passed a resolu The resolution also stated on the proposal next week. 
Tuesday, December 1, 1987
page 2 The Observer 
Don't rag on South Bend; it's my home (and yours) 
I 
In Brief 
Wally the Pelican flew south to the sun and surf of Florida after a friend paid his $104 airplane ticket. Ron Hlista of Valparaiso paid the pelican's way. Wally, captured after he strayed in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore with a large fishing lure caught in his beak, was taken under the_ wing of Porter, Ind. veterinarian Dr. Laurence Reed at the Westchester Animal Clinic. The recuperated pelican will be living with five other pelicans in a pool at the Seacoast Seabird Sanc­tuary near Tampa, Fla., Reed said. -Associated Press 
Plastic bags made of cornstarch are being mailed this week to 32,000 Hoosier farmers, the Indiana Corn Growers Association said. The bags are printed with a message about an upcoming referendum on the Indiana Corn Market Development Program, explaining how the bags made of biodegradeable plastic containing cornstarch represent a new market for corn. Voting in the referendum will be conducted by mail Dec. 3-15. ­
Associated Press 
The ozone layer should be made safer by government regulations limiting the use of two chemicals which are widely believed to be depleting the Earth's defenses against cancer-causing ultraviolet rays. The regulations, which take aim at chlorflourocarbons and halons, are part of a plan to meet levels set by an international body in Montreal. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Women United for Justice and Peace will have a discussion tomorrow night at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Mandatory WVFI news meeting at 7 p.m. and 7:30p.m. for those already scheduled and those who did not attend the meetings Monday night. For information, contact Lynsey Strand at 2548. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will have their last meeting of the semester at 7:30p.m. in Stanford Hall's 24-hour lounge. -The Observer 
The Food Advisory Council is seeking dorm representatives who would like to give opinions on the food on campus. Call Maureen at 2992 for information. -The Observer 
The Hispanic-American Organization is having a meeting at 5:30 p.m. in the Breen-Phillips puzzle room. 
-The Observer 
The World Hunger Coalition will meet tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Fashion show model tryouts will be held tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais will have an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the ISO lounge of LaFor­tune Student Center. Those interested in helping with the French mass are asked to attend. Musicians and singers are needed. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until2 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish. 

Design Editor .. . ........ Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout Design Assistant . . . .............. Jodi Topel Richelle Aschenbrenner Layout staff.... . . ........ Katie Gleason Accent Copy Editor ............. Lisa Young Typesetters..... . ............ Tom Elliott Accent Layout ........... Heather Hypes News Editor... . .......... Regis Coccia Typists... . .................... Lynn Ewing Copy Editor... ................ Matt Crowley ND Day Editor ..................... David Lee Sports Copy Editor ..... .. Steve Megargee Photographer . ..................... Jim Carroll Vtewpoint Copy Editor .. Matt Slaughter 
ne Olllener (USPS 599 2..WOO) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriJia exam &Dd vacation periods. neObeen>et" is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dune &Del Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina neOblenet", P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, llldiana 46556. 
ne u..n.. il a member of ne Mlodaled Pnu. All reproduction riahts are 
~ed. I 





"South Bend is large enough to be imper­sonal, small enough to be boring," said a friend of mine. 
Students returning from break, stuffed and satisfied, pick up their favorite sport, South Bend bashing. Thanks guys, it's my home town. Yes, I'll admit it, I'm a Bender. 
Every Notre Dame student has something to say about the South Bend area and little of it is good. Despite their own origins of Prairie Village, Kansas or Brownstown, Indiana most students feel that South Bend is the most god­forsaken spot on earth. 
Contrary to popular belief South Bend is not some little hick town. The South Bend metro area is around 240,000 people. The St. Joseph Valley area is about a half million people. New York it's not, but it sure isn't Brownstown. 
It's not the numbers, however, that are im­pressive -it's the people. What most students fail to recognize is that the Michiana area is full of domers. No, I don't mean large numbers of Notre Dame students living off-campus. There are 3,769 alumni in the St. Joseph Valley area. It works out roughly that one out of every 132 people in the area are Notre Dame alumni. So every time a current student insults the local community, he (or she) is insulting his former schoolmates. 
The St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association is one of the largest Notre Dame clubs in the na­tion, second only to Chicago.. Complaints about the area may be numerous, but there is some­thing in the community that persuaded graduates to stay in the area. 
This year INC. magazine ranked the South Bend metro area 24th out of 154 areas surveyed for starting and operating a business. A large portion of the businessmen in the area are ND graduates. Professional fields in South Bend and the surrounding area are dominated by alumni. Most area architects, lawyers, bank­ers, and businessmen first arrived in the area as students and then decided to stay. 
Admittedly, South Bend does not have the most active nightlife in the nation, nor the most interesting landmarks. Few places, however, hold enough excitement for students bored with books. South Bend is definitely not a college town. That makes sense, considering the resi­dential nature of Notre Dame does not lend it­self to that situation. Indiana University fits very well into a college town, Notre Dame does not. 
South Bend is easy to abuse and I even took some shots at the community in my high school years. I once told my brother (aND graduate) that South Bend would be nothing without Notre Dame. He pointed out that while the University contributes much to the community, it's a two­way street. In the school's early years it was the Benders who came to Sorin's aid and helped rebuild the Main Building after the 1879 fire. The South Bend community has always actively supported the University and often contributed to its greatness. 
Now, the more criticism the area receives the more I recognize its merits. It might not be quite as exciting as Washington D.C., and the night life doesn't compare with New York's, but it is home. 
Tuesday, December 1, 1987 

The Observer page 3 
Afghan leader says Soviet troops may pull out 
Associated Press Speaking to a National Coun­ghan leader indicated he would 
cil that, as expected, endorsed extend a cease-fire for govern­
MOSCOW -Afghan leader his election as president, Najib ment troops until July 15. Najib said Monday that Soviet also said he was ready to meet Leaders of the Moslem guer­troops could pull out of his leaders of the opposition to his rillas battling Najib's govern­
country in a year or less and Soviet-backed regime for ment have denounced the suggested a superpower con­direct peace talks. cease-fire, which officially took ference on stabilizing the situa­According to the official So­effect Jan. 15. The guerrillation in and around his country. viet news agency Tass, the Af-leaders say the order was a 

The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald Mont Saint-Michel, a medieval monastery in northern Angers, France. The fortress is protected in part by France, is one of many historic sites visited by stu­nature and is accessible only at low tide. dents in Notre Dame's foreign study program in 
propaganda move and suggest Tass did not say how many
that fighting has increased people were involved in the 
since then. fighting or if there were any 
Tass reported earlier Mon­casualties in a shootout be­
day that a former Afghan rebel tween the attackers and gov-
who joined government forces ernment troops. • 
two years· ago had led his 
bodyguards in an armed as­The Soviet Union maintains 
sault on the Polytechnical In­an estimated 115,000 soldiers in 
stitute in Kabul, near the build­Afghanistan to back Najib1s 
ing where the current National government against the rebels. 
Council, or Loya Jirgah, is Kremlin troops first entered 
meeting. the country in December 1979. 
Plant's ethanol fumes continue to decrease 
By GREG LUCAS pel, adding that the release of 
Senior Staff Reporter organic acids into the air has 
been reduced by up to 95 per­
Notre Dame students and cent. 
South Bend residents should be Kimpel said these improve­
able to breathe a little easier ments do not necessarily cor­
now. The installation of odor respond to an equal reduction 
abatement equipment at the in the intensity of the odor. He 
local ethanol plant is signifi­said the company is currently 
cantly reducing the smell that conducting tests to quantita­
has plagued the campus for tively determine how much of 
years, said Nathan Kimpel, the odor has been eliminated. 
general manager of New En­There is absolutely no health 
ergy Company of Indiana. risk from the odor, Kimpel 
said, adding that standards 
The odor may still be strong have been quantified by the 
on certain days depending on U.S. Department of Energy. 
wind direction and other fac­The system was voluntarily 
tors, Kimpel said. "We never installed by New Energy, said 
said that the odor would be Kimpel. "We wanted to be good 
completely eliminated," he neighbors." 
said. Kimpel said that he has 
According to Kimpel, the received positive feedback on 
$400,000 system was installed the effectiveness of the odor 
the third week of October. "It abatement equipment. "We 
has been as successful as we have had a number of residents 
thought it would from a quan­say that the situation has im­
titative standpoint" said Kim-proved," he said. 


AUTOGRAPH PARTY 
FOR 
JOSEPH DOYLE 
Thursday Afternoon Dec. 3rd 
2 to 4 p.m. 
2nd Floor Book Dept. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


--~------~------­
Tuesday, December 1, 1987

page 4 The Observer 
Quake rocks Alaska; thousands evacuate 

Associated Press communities and British Co­
lumbia, and issued a tsunami 

PALMER, Alaska -A major watch for Washington, Oregon, offshore earthquake rocked California and Hawaii. south-central Alaska on Mon-Emergency sirens and police day, prompting thousands of · loudspeakers roused residents people to flee low-lying coastal from their homes and busi­areas for the second time in two nesses and started heading weeks. them toward high ground. 
There were no immediate In Yakutat, the community reports of major damage or in-closest to the epicenter, 100 juries in the quake, which mea-miles to the southwest, City sured at least 7.4 on the Richter Manager Jim Filip said about scale and was felt more than 100 people were evacuated. 300 miles away. The Alaska Power was knocked out, but Tsunami Warning Center Filip reported no major struc­issued a warning of a tsunami, tural damage. or giant sea wave, but can-"It knocked books off celled it after 90 minutes. shelves, and opened drawers," 
The 10:23 a.m. CAST) he said. "And of course, work earthquake was centered 300 stopped immediately. It was miles southeast of Anchorage definitely something you in the Gulf of Alaska, the center couldn't escape noticing." said. A quake measuring 6.9 on At Seward, Mayor Harry the scale shook the same area Gieseler said the city's emer­Nov. 16. gency siren was used to warn 
While the center reported the people away from low-lying preliminary magnitude at 7.4, areas. University of California seis-"At this point we don't think mographs measured the quake there was any damage. But it at 7.7 on the Richter scale. was felt pretty hard. It rattled 
The center issued a tsunami pictures and shook things warning for Gulf of Alaska around a great deal." 
Tootin' your own horn 
Sophomore Jilanne Klaus strikes up a tune on a toy bugle outside a store in northern France. SUNDEF, 
Accident 
continued from page 1 
accident, he said the car's 
speed was also not a factor. The 
speed limit is 20 miles per hour 
on the road, he added. 
The eastbound Accord struck 
Mark in the eastbound lane, 
Johnson said. 
Another car that had turned 
onto the road just prior to the 
accident may have obstructed 
the the driver of the Accord's 
view of Mark, Security inves­
tigators said. Glare from the 
wet pavement may have also 
hindered the driver's view, 
they added. 

The Observer I Jennifer O'Donald the group of Notre Dame students in the foreign study program in Angers, tours the French countryside. 
appy 
19th 
Jim Carr 

MEXICAN RESTAURANTE 
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS 
MONDAY 
75 c'DRAFf Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite 
TUESDAY 
MARGARITA VILLE $1.00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $1.95 75 c shots of Cuervo Gold A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 
WEDNESDAY 
HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 75 c shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" $1.50 Sunburns & Suntans 
THURSDAY 
CORONA NIGHT ­cross the Border for only $1.25 a bottle 
FRIDAY 
Molson & Moosehead 2 Canadian favorites for only $1.00 a bottle 
SATURDAY 
Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau $1.00 off -Only $2.95 
SUNDAY 
Pitchers of our famous Margaritas for only $4.90 

Tuesday, December 1, 1987 

The Observer pageS 

34 killed in Haitian free-election riots 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE Haitians stayed home in fear Monday, deserting the deadly streets where men with ma­chine guns and machetes killed at least 34 people in a weekend of terror that destroyed the first free election in 30 years. 
Most presidential candidates could not be reached at their homes or offices. The indepen­dent Electoral Council's nine members were in hiding. 
Most businesses were closed. Few cars or public minibuses could be seen and the city's in­dustrial park was virtually deserted. Small groups of men could be seen in some neigh­borhoods. 
Scores of people were wounded Sunday by roving bands who attacked voting sta­tions and people at random in the streets, while the army did nothing to stop it. Gunmen shot up the Electoral Council headquarters. 
The military-dominated Na­tional Governing Council postponed the first election of a president and legislature since 1957, when Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier began the family dictatorship that ended Feb. 7, 1986. 
Silvio Claude, a major presidential candidate, asked 
Lincoln Would Lil<eTo GiveYourCareer ALittle Direction. 

You're looking at the fastest route to sun­drenched California. 
To success. 
To Lincoln Savings. 
Lincoln is looking 
for people willing to start out as financial Representatives in a unique Management Training Program. 
One that'll let you go as far as your talent will take you. 
We're one of the country's fastest grow­ing savings and loans. 

LINCOLN .SAVINGS 
A SubsidiaryofAmerican ContinentalCorporation. for information can Jackie: at c:xt. 353: 
1-800-654-4626 
EOE C> 19117. Uncoln S.vlll&'l 
A $4.6 billion subsidi­ary of a fortune 500 company. 
And right now we're hiring new financial Representatives for all 27 of our Southern California branches. 
If you're a bright workaholic with retail flair. a 4-year degree and the drive we're looking for. call. 
And get on the career path that can take you straight to the top. 
that an international military 
force be sent to the poverty­
stricken Caribbean nation to 
supervise a new election. 
"We call on a group of na­tions -the Organization of American States or the United Nations -to send multinational forces to conduct elections if the United States, the boss of the junta, doesn't force it to step down," said Claude, a 53­year-old Protestant clergyman representing the Christian Democratic Party. 
"No election is possible with this government. They are the Macoutes. They're the ones shooting everybody," he said on Radio Metropole. The Ton­tons Macoutes were the private Duvalier militia that terrorized the nation. 
Haitians often accuse the United States of being the power behind the three-man junta led by Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy. 
Spokesmen at the state uni­versity hospital morgue said 34 bodies had been brought there. Radio reports said 67 people were wounded. 
Terror gangs fired randomly at passers-by, made methodi­cal and brutal attacks on pol­ling places, shot election obser­vers, diplomats and journalists while soldiers stood by, refus­in to intervene. 

A crowd gathers at the fortified French city of St. Malo in Brittany to watch a rockabilly band play Elvis tunes with a French twist. The northwestern city is 

fered a loss in nationwide elec­tions.
Poland 
Government spokesman Jerzy Urban put a positive face 

continued from page 1 
on the outcome, noting that put to the voters. many more people voted in fa­
It was Poland's first referen­vor of the questions than dum in 41 years and the first against them. By law, a time in the nation's communist majority of eligible voters had history that the authorities suf-to approve for them to pass. 
THE EMPORIUM RESTAURANT 
is hiring 
bus help, food servers 
and experienced kitchen help. Flexible hours. 121 South Niles Avenue 
234-9000 & ask for John 
..•••••••••••••••••••••• THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series 
presents Professor Walter J. Tomasch 
Department of Physics 

surrounded by a 40-foot stone wall built to protect the city from attack. 
He said the voters' failure to approve the questions was "an answer to all who maintained our democratic institutions are a facade and that the demo­cratic transformations are not 
true."  
Leaders  of  the  outlawed  
Solidarity  free  trade  union  
movement  had  called  the  

plebiscite a charade and urged Poles to ignore it. The powerful Roman Catholic church did not take a stance. 
"I want to confirm the deter­mination of the authorities to continue reforms and the dem­ocratic procedure of consulting the opinions of voters on issues vital to everyone," Urban said. 
The government has, however, previously said that if it lost the referendum, reforms would continue, but at a slower rate. It has already made moves to streamline its economic planning . 
Urban gave these results: 
To the first question, on eco­nomic reform, 64 percent of those voting said "yes" and 
27.7 percent said "no," with the remainder of the ballots blank or otherwise invalid. To the second question, on political reform, 69 percent said "yes," 
24.6 percent said "no." Final figures showed that 
67.2 percent of eligible voters participated. The government said it was the lowest percentage turnout of any elec­tion in the nation's postwar his­tory. 
Clarification 
A story in the Nov. 23 edition incorrectly reported that Rev. Ruth Meyers, an Epis­copalian minister, re­quested permission to hold Episcopalian services at the O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. Permission was requested on her behalf by the hall staff of O'Hara-Grace, according to Meyers. 


.-----~------­
page 6 Tuesday, December 1, 1987
The Observer 

Holiday traffic deaths near 500, exceed estimate 
Associated Press the long Thanksgiving holiday. Council statisticians did not CHICAGO -More than 490 provide an estimate of how 
people were reported killed in many deaths might be ex­traffic accidents during the pected over a four-day non­four-day Thanksgiving holiday period at this time of weekend, exceeding National the year, saying that methods 
Safety Council projections. for gathering and analyzing such data are not comparable. At least 494 P.eople died on The worst Thanksgiving the nation's roadways between weekend was in 1968 when 764 6 p.m. Wednesday and mid­people died. Since the 55 mph night Sunday local time, con­limit was imposed in 1974, the sidered the peak holiday travel worst year was 1978 when 508 period. California reported the deaths were reported. highest state toll with 61 deaths, followed by Florida The speed limit was in­
with 34. creased to 65 mph this year on The safety council had said many interstate highways in 
rural areas.

450 travelers might die during 
Associated Press militarize space in the same Gorbachev spoke in a one­way envisioned by Star Wars, hour question-and-answer ses­
sion with Tom Brokaw broad­
MOSCOW -The Soviet Union however, Gorbachev said: 
cast by NBC news to American
"is doing all that the United 
viewers a week before the Com­
States is doing" to defend 
The Observer I Jim Carroll
Planes, trains and Christmas trees 

Senior Ray Bologna takes a moment to relax and Christmas season, replete with tree and train.· enjoy the festive atmosphere on campus during the 
Gorbachev in NBC interview: Soviets not planning own SDI 

munist Party chief's trip to HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIagainst nuclear attack, but will Washington for his third sum­not build a space-based sys­STUDE'S LOUNGEmit with Reagan. tem, Mikhail Gorbachev said in Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave.He said he is ready to com­an interview broadcast Mon­promise to reach a deal forday. scrapping half the super­Cordially Invites NO & SMC To Join Us:Acknowledging what the powers' long-range nuclearReagan administration has weapons. During the summit,long contended, the Soviet WICKED WEDNESDAY:they are expected to sign aleader said: "I guess we are treaty getting rid of allengaged in research, basic re­intermediate-range missiles. search, which related to these Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 aspects which are covered by j "We have some steps that we the SDI in the United States." could take to meet the Ameril­24 oz Draft Beers $1.00 SDI means Strategic Defense Mikhail Gorbachev can position halfway,'' Gorbac­Domestic Canned Beers $1.00Initiative, the formal name hev said. He added, however, President Reagan has given "We will not build an SDI. that he was not going to Wash­Imported Canned Beers $1.75 the space-based defense proj­We will not deploy SDI, and we ington to negotiate the future All Shots $1.00 ect commonly called "Star call upon the United States to of Star Wars, which the Krem­lin contends is limited to re­Wars." act likewise. If the Americans In response to a suggestion fail to heed that call, we will search by the 1972 antiballistic THURSDAY:that the Soviets are trying to find a response." · missile treaty. first accord ever to eliminate missile reductions hostage to Any Shot $1.00 an entire class of atomic weap­measures that would crippleSummit 24 oz Draft Beers $1.00 ons. our research and develop­continued from page 1 Reagan, speaking at a ment" of Star Wars, officially FREE SNACKSsummit) for any reason." luncheon at the Heritage Foun­called the Strategic Defense Beginning next Tuesday, dation, said negotiations to cut Initiative. MUSIC-OJ-BEST IN TOWN Reagan and Gorbachev will strategic weapons by half have TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC hold three days of talks in made progress, but that "we Reagan said the Soviets have Washington. Their meeting must never be afraid to walk spent $200 billion developingwill open with the signing of a away from a bad deal.'' and deploying their own mis­NO COVER treaty to ban intermediate­He said the Soviets "must sile defense system and that it Across..the street from 7-1 1 Food Mart range nuclear missiles -the stop holding strategic offensive "dwarfs" Star Wars. IIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI  
You can judge some books by their covers. Conviser-Miller knows how to integral part of our highly formulate personal study plans write books that get great respected proram. Respected that will further encourage reviews. With our name on the enough to be incorporated as your involvement in classes cover, you are assured of getting part of the educational administered live by the most comprehensive .study curriculum at major accounting professionals. aids available. The Conviser­universities throughout the Maybe that's why over 75% of Miller textbook series is updated country. all our students become CPAs. throughout the year to provide Our review series has even With the Conviser-Miller you with the most current more to offer. Before you get CPA Review ... ---­you're bound convller-mllerinformation you11 need to into the books, Conviser-Miller achieve your goal. has designed computerized for success. Cf2,g Our books represent an diagnostic "Pre-Tests" to Program begins in South Bend in early February! CaD toO-free l-800-621-04981n IUinois caD collect 312-782·5170  

~-------------------------------------------------------------------·­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, December 1 • 1987 page 7 
Mistakes of Reagan amendable at polls 
One of the hallmarks of our system of representative democracy is the abil­ity to rectify previous mistakes at elec­tion time. If the electorate has commit­ted an error in judgement, whether by misguided principles or as the result of deception, and placed in office a buf­foon or a madman, a decision can be made two or four years hence to not return that individual to a position of power. On occasion, however, such mis­takes in judgement can be repeated, and an official be returned to office to continue to be destructive to the better­ment of society as a whole. 
Karl Kronenber-ger Michael Schadek Daniel M. Sophy 
guest column 
In recent history the voters of this country have transgressed the rules of reason and prudence to twice elect a man to the solemn office of the Presi­dent of the United States primarily on the basis of his ability to tell the elec­torate exactly what it wanted to hear. In so doing we, as a group, chose to overlook the fact that this man had ab­solutely no business in a commanding role of many of the resources of one of the most powerful nations in history. 
-Many Americans have chosen to look the other way as this man has commit­ted or permitted gross acts of im­propriety destructive to the image of America at home and abroad and other­wise morally abhorrent. 
Simply put, we blew it. 
We blew it first by electing Ronald Reagan in 1980, although it is easy to see why we did this. This man displays undeniable talents for communication, and he employed a very successful strategy of appealing to the emotions of "average" Americans. The appeal to patriotism, flag waving, and "bring­ing America back" struck a tender spot in a lot of Americans who didn't want to be beat up on by the rest of the world anymore. They had endured a decade which included the end of Vietnam, the Arab Oil Embargo, and lots of inflation and unemployment. People had a sour taste in their mouths, and yearned for voices of hope. Since the incumbent 
Doonesbury 

continued to be a realist, which was not 
something they wanted to hear, they 
turned to Reagan and his new morning 
in America. 

We blew it again when we re-elected Reagan in 1984. Granted, Mondale was not the most charismatic individual to ever grace a soap box, nevertheless, he too was a realist. We had endured a terrible recession during the first term of the Reagan Presidency, but that was unfortunately easily forgotten by those who voted in 1984. These were not those who were hurt, and hurt badly, by Reaganomics and the other bad ideas that went along with it. These were people who were actually marginally better off as a result of Reagan's various policies. Being the shrewd politician that he may seem to be, he was able to capitalize on this with such queries as "are you better off now than you were four years ago?" Many of those who voted thought they were, so they voted for him. Since then we have had the Iran-Contra soap opera, various disastrous Supreme Court nominations, and a stock market col­lapse that threatens to plunge us into a sever recession. In addition, we have budget and trade deficits to which we can no longer take a cavalier attitude. We are in a severe mess. 
But we do not have to blow it again. In case you do not know, there is an­other Presidential election next fall, and we have the opportunity to reverse this trend of stagnation and social decay. It is time to take a realistic ap­proach to our problems. It is time to leave the fairy tale land of Reagan's America and face the harsh realities of life. It is time to deny the Republicans another chance to continue to ruin this country. 
The choice is yours. Vote wisely in 1988. Put a Democrat in office. If not for yourself, do it for the next genera­tions that will have to bear the brunt of this disaster. Do it for the children. This way you won't have to hate your­self in the morning on November 9, 1988. 
Karl Kronenberger, Michael Schadek and Daniel M. Sophy are the Co-leaders of the College Democrats at Notre Dame. 
P.O. Box Q 
Divest from Common Sense 
Dear Editor: 

Any graduate student with a modicum of common sense (i.e. the real kind) carr do himself or herself, and the university a great service by withholding the optional graduate union fee assessed to all graduate stu­dent's financial account. This would be an apt way to protest the decision of the governing body of the graduate stu­dent union to fund Common Sense for the entire school year at the rate of $50 an issue. 
Before cries of censorship and narrow-mindedness are raised let two things be remembered. First, even if, per impossibile, the contents of Com­mon Sense represented well-informed and responsible journalism there is no reason the graduate student at large should feel compelled to support the publication financially. Secondly, and more importantly, Common Sense has consistently engaged in slanderous diatribes against the teaching of the Catholic Church and against the person of our present Pope, and there is no reason for us, at a university that aspires to be Catholic, to tolerate this 
let alone Divest.  put  our  money  behind  it.  
Thomas D. D'Andrea  
Off-campus  
,  Nov. 13, 1987  

Co-ed dorms would help student unity 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this opportunity to voice my opinion on the highly con­troversial topic of co-ed dorms. After giving the idea much thought, I have come to the conclusion that co-ed dorms could play an essential role in the im­provement of communication and un­derstanding between the men and wo­men attending Notre Dame. Voluntary placement of people of the opposite sex in close living quarters would also serve to unite the two separate groups into one student body--a dream all have been striving toward since the admis­sion of women into the university six­teen years ago. As the students living in co-ed dorms gradually became ac­quainted with each other, they would realize that members of the opposite sex often share similar ideas, opinions, and dreams, that they really aren't so different from themselves. This under­standing would serve to vastly improve student relations across the campus. 
Rita Robinett Pasquerilla West Nov.l8, 1987 

US. PR0roSES NEW SETTING FOR GENEIW. SECRET~Y'S N>l>llESS TO NAliON 

Garry Trudeau 

Campus Quote 
"Don't let failure get you down. Babe Ruth struck out over 1300 times." 
Lou Holtz 


Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief_ _. _Kevin Becker Business Manager Brian Murray Managing Editor. _ . .. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager David Culligan
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

News Editor . ___ _ -· .. -···---Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager . ·-·-·Melinda Chapleau News Editor ....... _ .. Jim Riley Production Manager... . ... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor.. . ...........Chris Murphy Projects Manager... Mark Mclaughlin
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 

Sports Editor .... ................ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .... Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 

Accent Editor .. _ ... Michael Naughton Controller... .. Tracy Schindele poss1ble. Uns1gned editoroals represent the op1nion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther institution. The News is repor141d as accurately and objectively as Saint Mary's Editor.. .. ......... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...... Laura Stanton Photo Editor . ..... Jim Carroll

Commentaroes. letters and the lns1de Column present the views of lheir authors. Column space is available to all members ol the school community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 


Accent
page 8 Tuesday, December 1, 1987 
Whistle while 
I 
t's tough being king. What with ruling England, leading the knights of the round table and trying to'convince himself his wife Gweneviere is not having an affair with Lancelot, knight number-one, King Ar­thur was under a lot of stress. 
Mary Berger 
Back ln the High Ufe 

One scene In the movie "CAMELOT" I watched over break has a mentally-exhausted Arthur seeking respite in Gweneviere's room. He asks her, "What do the simple folk do?" when they want to escape from the day's woes. 
Suddenly trumpets sound and Gweneviere breaks out in . song: one of the simple folks' answers to "perking up the heart and getting through" is whistling. Just like the seven dwarfs, they whistle a happy tune. 
I myself enjoy whistling. I must clarify, however, that what I consider "whistling" many others do not. To them, my music is an off-key piercing of the air. 
Before I came to Notre Dame, I made a bet with a friend of mine that I would be able to whistle by the time I returned home for Christmas break or else I would treat him to pizza. Up until that time, 
Calvin and Hobbes 
whenever I puckered up, it was not for whistling; my attempts at making music had always · been mute. 
So, first semester freshman year found me blowing a lot of air around as I tried to sing like a bird. My roommate was 
patient with me, enduring the noises I made and encouraging me to win the bet. 
When break roiled around, my friend was not satisfied with the fact that I could finally make a sound come out of my pursed lips. He expected me to be able to whistle a tune! I argued that being on-key and able to follow a tune had not been specified as conditions when the bet was made. I con­sidered the noises I made to be whistling. even if they were not crystal clear. 
Finally, he acknowledged my ability to make supposed whistle sounds and I admitted my inability to do it on key. In the end, he paid for the pizza so I felt I had accomplished something. 
That was two years ago and I am not much further along today. I still whistle and, to this day, most of my friends wince when I do. I provide a constant source of amusement to my 

\T'S £AS~. I -.1\.)S\ I<OCK <?J::!:JD TI-\\~G 
A. l\TIL'E 1G LOOs:N -mE '(D\J'R'C. IXl\I<IG \\1\S KNOTS. 1'-10 1\'t:Rt 15UC>R't. I<DPb CAt-\ 1\0lD ME.' 
roommate when I whistle to the radio. I'll be off in my own little world, chirping away, and I'll hear this long. stale sound. If I throw something at her, she will stop, but not without us both cracking up. 
One day I was walking through O'Shag and an older gentleman walking in front of me began whistling. He carried the tune beautifully as he, and 
I. almost skipped down the hall. Unaware that I was so en­joying his music, he was simply enjoying the moment for himself. 
There is not enough singing. dancing or whistling in today's world. With ail of the stress we moderns weigh under, what better ways to lighten loads? Breaking out in song like Gweneviere and Arthur did or whistiiJ1g away the day like some happy man here on campus does are wonderful ways to catch a fresh look on life. 
So maybe I can't let out an ear-piercing. eye-catching "Hey Good-Looking" whistle like my roommate can, but I enjoy my attempts, feeble or painful as they may be. Whistling while I work lightens my heart and brings laughter bubbling forth from ail those present. Some­day I just know I'll be able to whistle like Billy Joel does at the beginning of "The Stranger," and then I won't just: be blowing around a lot of off­key air. 
Bill Watterson 
Soap Update 

Sue Ellen seeks more than business advice 
}\ II My Children: Erica con­nsoied Travis after he confessed about Palmer's ille­gal contribution to Jackson's campaign. Working undercover Erica began to find a way to free Silver from Damon. Under oath, Natalie said a door slammed while she was being raped; Mark and Ellen suspected Julie may be the mystery witness. Coming: Was Nina and Matt's marriage a mistake? Another World: Nicole saw Rex argue with Monique and push her to her death. Meanwhile, Cass escaped her captors and ran into Nicole. Sam and Amanda made love. Aunt Liz returned for Thanksgiving din­ner. Dawn told Scott she's in love with him. John learned Donna is pregnant. Coming: A new romance. As the World Turns: Dusty vehemently refused Lucinda's money for saving her daughter. Barbara began hypnosis, upset­ting Lucinda. She later recalled hearing two gunshots as James cried aloud for help. Casey and Lyia were wed, prompting Tom into thinking a reconciliation was possible with Margo. Hoi­den announced his marital in­tentions. Coming: New love in bloom. The Bold and the Beautiful: After some coaxing from Thorne, Caroline's letter was intercepted by Brooke. At a romantic dinner, Thorne pro­posed to Caroline. Meanwhile, Ridge waited for Caroline, but Stephanie showed up to tell him Caroline accepted Thorne's proposal. Storm cautioned Brooke to be realistic about Ridge. Coming: The repercus­sions of heartache. Dallas: Andy took the oil workers hostage in an effort to keep his oil drilling rig open. Frustrated at Cliff's shutting the rig down, Andy revealed a shot­gun. J.R. with the unwitting help of April Stevens, contin­ued to pursue Westar Oil, as well as Kimberly Cryder. Sue Ellen sought more than busi­ness advice from Nicholas after learning of J.R.'s philandering. Coming: Bobby reacts to the wedding. Days of Our Lives: With Alice's help, Patch rescued Kayia. Eve was hurt when Shane insisted on genetic tests. Roman's bul­let left Serena paralyzed. Diana agreed to marry Kiriakis in return for getting Serena off the hook. Coming: A stunned Roman digs deeper. Dynasty: Sean searched for damaging information at the Carrington's. Blake decided to divest himself of ali Denver Carrington control in order to continue his political career. Leslie joined Jeff on a business trip and used dinner as a romantic ploy. Sammy Jo lied to Steven about seeing Josh again. Coming: Sean's true colors. Falcon Crest: Lance's deter­mination to get the real mur­derer jeopardized his life. Rich­ard came to the aid of an old 
friend, Liz McDowell. Angela 
tried to destroy Melissa's new vineyard. Richard proposed to Maggie. Coming: Maggie's an­swer. General Hospital: Scotty Baldwin rescued Bobbie from a Florida jail. Jake reunited Skeeter with Martha. Andy's tes revealed a kidney tumor, but he refused surgery. Edward threatened to kill Herbert, who decided to cut him out of his will. Coming: Autumn struggles with the truth. Guiding Light: Sonnie told Josh she wanted a baby. Roxie told Hawk about Johnny's can­cer. Meredith begged Rick not to go to England. Phillip en­listed Alex in his takeover pian. Rusty spent Thanksgiving Day working at the police station. Coming: A new family? Loving: Steve's condition was listed as critical. Cecelia learned that Rick's supposed affair with Gwyn was the cause 
for his dismissal. Once again, Ann found Gwyn in Harry's apartment and, once again, she jumped to the wrong con­clusion. Coming: A turn for the 
worse. 

One Life to Live: Clint learned that any little jolt could shift the fragment and kill him. Patrick planted a bomb inside Cord's camera, and then learned he would use it to take family portraits on Thanksgiv­ing Day, with Kate there. Max asked Tina to marry him and have his baby. Coming: Again, Tina!? Ryan's Hope: Things looked bleak for Emily after she was found near Richard's body. Jill agreed to represent her. The doorman revealed that Chaz had a fight with Richard, but strands of Emily's hair were found in Richard's hand. Frank and Pat gloated over their sting operation. Coming: A "bomb" is dropped. Santa Barbara: At the wedding. Cruz made his escape. Eden revealed to Cain that she can walk. On horseback, Cruz kept running. only to be shot by a bounty hunter hired by Keith. In a weak moment, Mason and Julia made love. As the bounty hunter approached, Cruz knocked him out. shot out the helicopter engines,, and rode off. Keith threatened to disbar Julia and Mason. Cruz swam to safety at the grotto, dozed off, and woke to see Eden; the two melted into a sensual bliss. Coming: T.J.'s past haunts him. The Young and The Restless: Nina tried to tell Cricket the news of her pregnancy, but Phillip beat her to it. Cricket lashed out at Nina, and then told Phillip the engagement stood. Betsy accepted Faren (Michelle) as her mother, and Evan called off his wedding. Meanwhile, Andy went away to give Faren time. Janet, devas­tated, went to Faren and pulled a gun on her. Janet pointed the gun at Faren's head, but Evan interceded. Coming: Someone has been shot. 
1987, McNaught Synd. 



-~~-------------------­
r-----------------­
Tuesday, December 1 , 1987 
The Observer page 9 
Saints' win streak lifts New Orleans 
Associated Press Saints as a fan since they started play in 1967. NEW ORLEANS-Along with the general feeling of well­
"The atmosphere in the city 
being, there's a cold-eyed eco­is good. The team is winning,nomic benefit to finally having 
and everybody who has sup­a winning football team in New ported them for so long feels 
Orleans, Mayor Sidney Bar­good about it," he said. thelemy said Monday. 
About 2,500 fans awaited the The Saints assured them­team's charter flight home selves of the first winning from Pittsburgh Sunday night. 
season in their 21-year history "I'd almost given up hopeSunday with a 20-16 victory that I'd ever see this day," said 
over Pittsburgh. With four Cheryl Woods, among those games remaining, the Saints, who waited. 8-3, can finish no worse than 8-7 But feeling good is just a part 
Hoby Brenner of the New Orleans Saints was In a state of euphoria. The Saints have clinched in this strike-shortened season. of it, Barthelemy said. Injured making this catch, but his teammates have their first winning season ever. "Last Sunday, when the an 8-3 record and have put the city of New Orleans New Orleans had to sur-Saints played here and won, • 
• render about $1.5 million in there were several thousand people on Bourbon Street
Raiders rock Seahawks, 37-14 ~~~~se~!b1:~t;!~h~::s~~a1~ 
celebrating and spending buy the team three years ago. money. That's a benefit youAssociated Press Kansas City Royals into the game, Jackson also caught a 14-At the time it was estimated can see," he said.
NFL for a five-year, $7.4 mil­YB:rd sc~ring pass from Marc that the Saints pump an Operators of French Quarter SEATTLE-Rookie Bo Jack­lion contract, had a 2-yard W~lson m the second quarter. average of $132 million per nightspots estimated businessson rushed for a team-record touchdown run in the third Wilson also had a 46-yard year into an economy blighted was up 25 percent after that221 yards on 18 carries and quarter. On that play, he touc_hdown pass to James Lof-by the collapse of the offshore victory.

scored three touchdowns, in­carried Seahawks' $11 million 
ton m the first quarter. oil industry. Sunday, at bars and lounges cluding a 91-yard scoring sprint rookie linebacker Brian Bos­~he 6-foot-1, 200-pound 1985 "I think there's no question throughout the city, fansin the second quarter, leading worth into the end zone. 
Heisman Trophy wmner from that the benefits of keeping the huddled before television setsthe Los Angeles Raiders to a Jackson had a 42-yard ruri on Auburn broke the Raiders' Saints here far outweigh the at Saints parties. 
37-14 NFL victory over Seattle the scoring drive as the single-game rushing record of cost," Barthelemy said. At one party, Charlie Kertz, 
Monday night. Raiders went from a 27-7 200 yards set by Clem Daniels "We would have liked to have 72, held a cigarette lighter toThe Raiders, 4-7, previously halftime advantage into a 33-7 against the New York Jets in been able to keep them here one of the symbols of long years eliminated in the NFL playoff lead. 
1963. without surrendering that of frustration -one of thechase, snapped a seven-game The loss kept Seattle, 7-4, The Seahawks, who had won money but that wasn't possi­original "Ain'ts" bags fromlosing streak with their first from moving into a tie with San 
four offive starts after the NFL ble," h~ said. 1980. That year, Saints fansvictory in the Kingdome since Diego, 8-3, for first place in the players' strike ended, scored wore bags over their heads to1981. They were outscored 70-3 AFC West, and dropped the on Dave Krieg touchdown Barthelemy was a two-way avoid being recognized in thein their previous two visits to Sea hawks into third· place in passes of 19 yards to Daryl performer at tackle for St. stands during a 1-15 season.
Seattle. their division behind Denver, 7­Turner in the opening quarter Augustine High School in his "I feel like a million," Kertz Jackson, enticed by Raiders' 3-1. 
and 3 yards to Mike Tice in the said.
youth, and he has followed theowner AI Davis to go from the In just his fifth pro football third quarter~ 

n.a..w.Not111 Deme offlc:e, located on the third floof of L..aFonune Stu­dMI Center .:cepr. clualfled ectw.1111ng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. n.a..w. s.mt M8ry'a otftce, located on the third ftoor of Hllgger Collge Center, eccepta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thf'ough Friday. Daedllne tor next-day cluslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All cluslfleda must
Classifieds be p1111)111d, either In pen10n or by mall. The ch..-ge Ia 10 cents per five ~perday. 
LOST: Pair of blue and green ski gloves -WfLCOMf HACK TO THf THIRD MUS· TO THE MAINTENANCE CREW
To Sharon of P.E. I want You. D. N.D. from back of bike locked behind library 
Knr:r:Rtlll THE "OTHER TWO" MISSW GIRL You wanna hear something tunny NOTICES on Saturday 28th. They are my only PERSONALS No one can be sure my ·triends where YOU SOMETHIN' FlfRCfll HOPI: YOUR about that Scranton Prep sweatshirt? gloves and I need them desperately! If 
fiction ends and truth begins. -Tones On JOURNEY TO THE WEST WAS EVERY­IT'S MINElli Please return it to the lost ADOPTION· Loving couple, lound please call Tom at 271-0845. 
Tail THING YOU HOPED FOR. ALWAYS Rf­and found at LaFortune to avoid any un· 
physiCiar>!lsychologlst, deeply wishes to ....... ........ ......... . 
MEMBER: WE LOVE YOU 111111111111 ecessary hassle. Until then, I'll be rightadopt newborn. Welcoming warm family, Lost: GOLD BRACELET In or near S. 
TO EVERYONE THAT MADE MY 21ST here--making your life a living hell. I'm love, opportun1tiasl Expenses paid Le­Dining Hall. Please call Colleen £2537. WAKE UPI 
BIRTHDAY WEEKEND ''THE WORLD L, QUICKI GET OUTIA HEREI -A watching you... gal. confidential Call Ellie or Alan collect 
OF MY TIMEt" THANKS, IT REALLY ......................................... 
212-724-7942. 
WAS THE TIME OF MY LIFE. LOVE, C.I.LA CHRISTMAS CARDS II On sale MB in North and South Dining Halls. Dacem­
SENIORS: GET PSYCHED! SENIORTYPINGWORD PROCESSING ber 2 and 3. 10-$1.00. 

CALL CHRIS FOR RENT oiiFi'H'O'us·E;·c·aL:o·sEE'ii'&'i:iaiioR. CLASS CHRISTMAS FORMAL AT 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY STEVE NYTES -­
MITCHELL'S INDIANA CLUB THIS

234·8997 CARRYOUTT03A.M.U.S.31 N.,ONE 
THE LEWIS CLAN George,Scott,Paul: Did the gaping Looking for your own room next semes­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FRIDAY NIGHTI That's right, December 

4th. It's $15 per couple and tlx are on hatchet wounds heal? I think we're done ter? Need 1 -3 roommates tor house, 
"CHRISTIAN LIFE AND THE SACRA­with them I Dude 
sale at the Senior Office today and Wed­TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-$100·$12&tno plus utilities. Call 271· REACH 

MENTS.. .IN ADVENT" WILL BE THE 
nesday. GO GO GOII

7406 0758. out to your friends abroad 
SUBJECT OF PROF. HIMES TALK ON PEDRO and ELTONwith a personal ad In 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3 AT We went, we saw, and we got conquered 
TYPING FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH 
10:00PM IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY. but.. we did have a time to remember. 
277-8131 or 237-1849 NEWSLETIER 
THIS IS FOR THEO MAJORS AND ALL 
only 50 cents tor up to 20 wordsll
WANTED INTERESTED PERSONS. Hal: "I got my mind set on you I''
buy as many 20-word blocks as you like II 35 hours and 10 states In a row 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; write your ad, put It WITH YOUR MONEY 
CATHY WHY BIF BIF I missed you. Follow me around awhile. Is It k-e-o-u-g-h?277-1051 DAY. EARN MONEY In an envelope In Mary Berge<'forelgn 
.............................................. Belinda and Melinda 
GREAT p1rt-tlme opportunity to GAIN Relations' mailbox and we'll do the rest. 
SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT REMEMBER, 0 MOST GRACIOUS VIR· The easy opening doors
E·xPE:iir'"'rv.PiN'Ci'""iiE'iivicE.""C'iiL:i. EXPERIENCE while marketing FOR­..
CLUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS GIN MARY, THAT NEVER WAS rr MRS. COKER, 233-70011 TUNE 500 Companloe' product• on SNOW VOLLEYBALL KNOWN THAT ANYONE WHO FLED Does It get any better? campuel FLEXIBLE hourel Reler­WINTER FEST 
SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT TO THY PROTECTION, IMPLORED Yeeaaahhl 
................................................................ oncoe given. Cell 1-8D0-843-2788 . SNOW VOLLEYBALL 
CLUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS THEY HELP, AND SOUGHT THY IN· Blaine 
WINTERFEST TERCESSION, WAS LEFT UNAIDED.
II you were lucky enough to still have film 

SEAN & THE SUN KINGS THURS. AT 
INSPIRED WITH THIS CONFIDENCE, Ileft at the end of the Alabama game and 

CLUB 23 AT 10:00 PM $.75 CANS have pictures of the ensuing field 
t:iuFiRv.....b:N·o....G'Er....vouR.....x~Mii·s FLY UNTO THEE, 0 VIRGIN OF VIR­TERRY ANNE just because you got your 
GINS, MY MOTHER. TO THEE DO I name Into a Dallas newspaper doesn'tmayhem, I would love to get copies. CHECK UP EARLY BEFORE THE COME, BEFORE THEE I STAND, SIN­mean you can get It In the Observer asIF YOU FOUND MY BINOCULARS at CALL THE SLUG AT 283·3105 AND RUSH I THE PARTY DOCTORS ARE 
BUFFALO BUS FOR BREAK SIGN­
FUL AND SORROWFUL. 0 MOTHER well.
the Boston College Game. please return LET'S MAKE A DEAL. TAKING APPOINTMENTS NOW TO 
UPS:Thurs 3-5 and Sat 1-4 (Dec.3 & 5) 
OF THE WORD INCARNATE, DESPISE 

them. lam offering a $27 reward and my ............................................... CURE YOUR SOCIAL EVENT MUSIC 
In the main lobby of LaFortune. LEAVES 
NOT MY PETITIONS, BUT IN THY Somebody tell Bill Webb he looks 'great' Prarle View A and M ticket tor the return CUPCAKE 1ST WISH 1 A TAPE LIKE ILLS. CALL DAN AT £ 3626 OR MIKE 
N.D. Dec. 19. RETURNS Jan.11 COST: 
MERCY, HEAR AND ANSWER ME. today. He could use the IIH.
of my scopes. Please call Pete at 3105. THE ONE I GAVE U 2 COOK DIN FRI AT£ 3413 Ill 
$50 roundtrip. NO ONE-WAY PRICE AMEN.They are standard black Juan brand 
REDUCTIONS. ?'s call Kim at 3425 JESUS, MARY, JOSEPH, RJ the CE,binoculars, with a strap. Looking for one energetic, on-campus THE BOTIOM LINE MY JESUS MERCY. 1hope Minnesota was tun because youIs looking tor a talented non-senior male student to help market popular member­0 SACRED HEART OF JESUS, missed out an a memorable adventure.
LOST· 1987 Class Ring, with ln~lals MV ship Coupon Booklets of records, cas­LEAD VOCALIST JOIN THE WAR AGAINST FLACCIDITY 
I PLACE MY TRUST IN THEE. Denny's 12-6 on blue atone. Has toro bull and capricorn settes and COs. Good income potential. It interested, call Bill at 239·5118 or Matt birth sign on s1des. Has Initials PS on Alexander Assoc. 272-2485. at x-2318. TO THE SENIOR BOYS MY 
................................................................ ........... ........................................
ring. II found calt Paul at 292t BOYFRIEND MET IN DC: KISS MY -
Trlcla, Hope your 21st Is great I Don't let

Hey S.R. "TAIL"III SPROUT give you too many. Love ya
LOST-HP15C calculator left In rm 123 Here Is your personal FROM THE GIRL WITH THE HAIR NO LAW WOMEN lots, Susan
Nleuland on Fri. 1v.!O. Please HELP Thanks for keeping me up lntoreeted In expending their horizon•
FOR SALE

REWARD. Call Joe x3285 Before my interview J.DEVER, THANKS FOR A GREAT leek melee with quality frH time on An adorable little boy Ia dying-and all he Buckeye Hater WKND.CAN IT HAPPEN AGAIN? WHkonde NO JD1 NEED NOT APPLY wants tor hla l11t birthday Ia a "DOME­To the person who look my dark blue -FOR SALE­Don't Dulac· T-shlrt. OK, so he's not so
Eaatpak backpack with a brown leather ·GENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES. H. (SQUARED?), 
llttle,so maybe he won't even die-but we

bottom lrom !he south cafe. at lunch on Choose now, we will hold them until the Campus Book/1st Coming Soon French kiss??? Sounds interesting! Friday, Nov. 20. It has all my notes and holidays .................................................... Should I bring vitamins or... ? Watch out BIF U are LUCKY To have C.S BIF 
NEED one of those T-shlrtsl It you know where we can gat one or are willing to

books from every class for this ent1re se­Call PETE at 239·5603 or 234·7429 To EISUS "Mom" -sung to the tune of Angers "THE PANDA" will arrive soonlll mester My finals will be ruined If you do N.D. Alma Mater ................................................ RICHARD REHG 
sell yours PUHLEEZE cell 284-4316-we will make It worth your while

not at least return the notes. PLEASEIII Susie a our mother WANTED: BACK MASSEUSE FOR IN­WAS ­Call Susan at 2830 or return to rm. 311 Single, blond and short DEFINITE PERIOD Must Enjoy cham­21 YESTERDAY!
For Sale: C-rrOH F 10-40 Starwriter Lyona... no questions asked. Thanks. Printer with SheeHeeder. Best Offer. 284­
Driving In the Big Poop pagne by the monuments, Mozart, eggs STANFORD-305 ............................... All tor the best sport In the morning, AAE, old movies, and Ice Starboyl
5666 FOUND -ND men's class ring In Sr. Ber .............................. 
A new crew story surrounds thee cream. Preferred If fluent in French and Happy 20th Birthday I parking lot. Call Lee at 289-6714 to Iden­PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON HOBBY on Golden are thy memories of the race In likes Alba with peaches . I once knew a chick lrom ole Brook­Party Up Dude I LQva Ya, DEC 17 x1 177-GREG Phlily lyn,who thought she was cool&good "The Better Half" That was never meant to be HII Slept with your doughty lately? Are lookln',She liked Blochem, and muscular If anyone took the wrong coat home from FOR SALE 1979 DELTA 88 RUNS 
Together thru frostbite, wind and Greg you drunk or are you just weird? How do men,But she needed some lessons in ......................................... Bndget'a on Sat. Nov. 20. please call GREAT PERFECT FOR ND STUDENT We endured the hell well, van monster you know when you've pulled a Sarah? cookln' .And then there's this girf lrom the Dear CUTE BLONDE-­234-7748. I may have your coat CALL 234-804 7 and keg For answers to these questions and Twins,who keeps me on needles and You seem to have a lot of confidence, 
.............................................. And our hearts forever thank thee Susie more, call 4111 and wish NA NA a pins, Well needless to say,Someday soon maybe you should hook up with TTTG IF YOU FOUND A LARGE BLUE AND ONE WAY TICKET FOR SALE. Fly back a HAPPY BIRTHDAY! she will pay For Its the last laugh who GOLD ND UMBRELLA IN RM. 103 OF to South Bend from New York on Pled­
And our hearts forever love thee Susie wins I That guy from NYC Warren-O'SHAG ON 1Ill 6, PLEASE CALL RAY mont on Jan 10 tor $92. Call Kevin at a 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY RENEE KAP· ............. . ..................................... Let's go to Miami thiS weekend. Call ma­at 1478. THANKS. 4335. 
TURI CUROE: the TERROR has just begunl SMC-5201. Love, Rosie 

Tuesday, December 1, 1987
page 10 The Observer 
AP Football Poll 

Sports Briefs
Irish fall to 12th •
1n Poll 
floor LaFortune. Interviews will liti!~>~=~=:c~s~~=~=~i~~=~=§=£~~~~~~=~=~t~~=~~i~~;=>~<=?~t=>>>>>>>>>>>>>>~{{{{{{:}}}}}}~{(:}}}}}~{=~=~=:1li=i1
• 
begin the next week. 

! THE RAINMAKERS 11 SENIORSENIORSENIOR., ~ ~ 
.. 

~~ ~th Thursday, .•••••· 
CHRISTMAS 

special guests December 3 ••••••••
FORMAL FRIDAY DEC 4th 


Associated Press 
Mter getting blown out by the Miami Hurricanes, 24-0, at the Orange Bowl last Saturday, the Notre Dame football team slipped from lOth to 12th in the latest Associated Press Poll. 
The Oklahoma Sooners and Miami are within one game of a national championship show­down. 
Oklahoma has done its part, completing an 11-0 regular season. with the No. 1 ranking in the Associated Press college football poll. The Sooners have been No. 1 in all but one poll this season. They slipped to second two weeks ago but reclaimed the top spot by defeating Nebraska on Nov. 21. 
Miami remained No. 2 for the second week in a row Monday after the victory over Notre Dame, but the Hurricanes, 10­0, who meet Oklahoma in the 
AP Basketball Poll 

AP sticks Tar Heels at No,. 1 
Associated Press 
North Carolina, which defeated Syracuse in the Tipoff Classic, then won the Central Fidelity Classic, took over as the No. 1 team in the Associ­ated Press' first regular­season college basketball poll Monday. 
The Tar Heels, 3-0, received 37 of 58 first-place votes and 1,109 points from the nation­wide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters after beating the then-top ranked Orangemen 96­93 in overtime in the Tipoff on Nov. 21. North Carolina then defeated Southern California 82-77 and Richmond 87-76 in the Central Fidelity tournament over the weekend. 
Kentucky, which had been 
SPECIAL OUTDOOR LEISURE OPPORTUNITIES.

An Tostal Executive Committee 
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Be a part of the most exciting event 
CALL: 289-9216
of the Spring Semester! 
ASK FOR LISA 
8 

Applications available on 2nd 0000000000000000 
Orange Bowl on New Year's night, have a regular-season game left against eighth­ranked South Carolina on Sat­urday night. 
In the next-to-last regular­season poll, Oklahoma received 48 of 55 first-place votes and 1,090 of a possible 1,100 points. Six first-place votes and 1,049 points went to Miami. 
Florida State, Syracuse and Nebraska held onto the 3-4-5 spots. Florida State, 10-1, received 985 points following a 28-14 triumph over Florida; Syracuse, 11-0, completed its regular season a week earlier and received the remaining first-place vote and 914 points, while Nebraska, 10-1, a 24-7 winner over Colorado, received 904 points. 
Florida State plays Ne­braska in the Fiesta Bowl and 
ranked fifth, jumped to second and ninth, respectively, and with seven first-place votes and each received one first-place 955 points. The Wildcats have vote. played just one game, beating Florida, 4-0, jumped from Hawaii 86-59. 14th as the Gators won the Big 
Syracuse, 2-1, fell to third and Apple NIT. Missouri did not received two first-place votes play a game as it remained and 916 points, three more than eighth with 704 points, 13 fewer Pittsburgh, which remained than Florida received. fourth with four first-place Arizona, which beat then No.9 votes. Syracuse was to face Michigan 79-64 in the semi­Arizona Monday night in the finals of the Great Alaska 
championship game of the Shootout, jumped from 17th to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Great Alaska Shootout. ninth and received 636 points. 
Indiana jumped one place to fifth, receiving four first-place Wyoming, which beat Den­votes and 817 points, five more ver 113-82 in its only game, 
than Iowa, 3-0, which won the remained lOth with 636 points. Maui Classic, including an im­pressive 100-81 victory over • 
00000000000000 then-No. 7 Kansas. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED

Florida, Missouri and 
FOR SKI ORGANIZATION.

Arizona were seventh, eighth 
Syracuse meets No. 6· Auburn 
in the Sugar Bowl. 

Auburn and LSU swapped positions. Auburn climbed from seventh place to sixth with 803 points by defeating Al­abama 10-0 while LSU, which ended its regular season a week ago, slipped from sixth to seventh with 765 points.. 
South Carolina remained eighth with 708 points and Mic­higan State held onto ninth place with 635 points. As Notre Dame fell, UCLA moved up from 11th to lOth with 573 points. 
The Second Ten consists of Oklahoma State, Notre Dame, Clemson, Georgia, Texas A&M, Tennessee, Southern Cal, Iowa, Pitt and Penn State. 
Last week, it was UCLA, Oklahoma State, Clemson, Georgia, Texas A&M, Tennes­see, Southern Cal, Alabama, Iowa and Pitt. · 

Happy 20th Kim! 
You Woman You! 
We Love You: 

Kevin, Mary Catherine, Monty & Don 
Snow volleyball tournament sign-ups will be held in the SUB office tomorrow and Thursday from 12-5 p.m. Teams should consist of seven people, two of which must be women. There is a $2 entrance fee per team. -The Observer 
The women's track team will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Howard's first-floor lounge. For more information, call Amy (2533) or Mo (3624). -The Observer 
The JACC is now open untill a.m. Monday through Thursday for student use. -The Observer 
The O.C. hockey is tonight at 10 p.m., not 10:45 as previously reported. Call Chris with any questions at 272­8689. -The Observer 
IH football equipment return will take place tomorrow from 6-7 p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium for anyone who has not yet returned their equipment. This will be the absolute last chance for players to return equipment and avoid getting billed for it. -The Observer 
College Bow Is will be the topic for WVFI' s ''Speaking of Sports" from 10-11 p.m. tonight. Join the "College Foot­ball Today" staff, Frank Mastro, Brian Broderick and Sean Munster, in predicting the outcome of this year's bowl games. Call 239-6400 to match wits with the panel. 
"-'The Observer 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the position of Advertising Design Manager 
Applications due by 5:00 Wed 12'2 
INSIDERS
-

-
Ticke~ on Sale Tue~~ ~::d 24 in cmss office., : ····•··· TICKETS MAY B::~:=~d:~ THE CELLAR 
=~.?i:::~:?????>:<<t:::::::::::::::::}}}}}}){:???~<=>>~=>>>>>?>>>>:<=>>:<:~:?>>>>>>>>>>>>~::::::y:::}::~y:::::j~:t~ 
------~-----------------------------~----------------------..-----~--~~~-----.------------­


Tuesday, December 1, 1987 
The Observer page 11 
''Canetalking' bothers Brown 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN worse than anything heard on that he could win the Heisman. Sports Editor a playground. •One of the biggest problems "Losing to Miami really the Irish have had all year is 
MIAMI -Miami's 24-0 blank­makes you feel bad because of the lack of a solid pass rush ing of Notre Dame Saturday the type of guys they are on the from the defensive line. To found the 'Canes up to their old field. When they talk to you like boost it, John Foley, who had habits of taunting the oppos­they do, you just want to beat been a backup at inside tion. Aside from wide receiver them as bad as you can beat linebacker, was moved up to Michael Irvin's dances after them." the line for the Miami game to every catch, the Irish were sub­take advantage of his aggres­jected to verbal abuse, espe­•Brown didn't have that good sive style of play. cially Tim Brown. of a day aside from the abuse "I was kind of thinking of 
Hurricane free safety Bennie he took. Normally surehanded, moving to line next year," Blades reportedly called Brown had three balls go off Foley said of the switch. "The Brown a punk at one point and his hand, none more critical coaches told me it would be this later said that the reason for then with the Irish trailing, 17-week. I was really feeling ner­Brown's difficulties was that he 0, early in the fourth quarter. vous about it. I said, 'Coach, was intimidated. Brown only The Irish had the ball with a I'm 230 pounds.' They said, 'If had three receptions for 37 second-and eight at their own you have the heart, you can yards. 48 when Irish quarterback play the position.' 
The Observer 1 Jo Whitfield 

"I'm really surprised Bennie Tony Rice found Brown over "I just went out and did best, Miami defensive linemen like Greg Mark (94) harassed Notre Dame would say something like the middle, only to see the tried my hardest. The coaches quarterbacks Tony Rice (9) and Kent Graham throughout the game that," Brown said. "If that's leading reciever on the squad really helped me out. They 
what he thinks, hey, that's what let this one go. went over everything a million
In the 24-0 Miami shutout. 
he thinks. Intimidation, that's "I just took my eyes off the times. I was excited because I 
score of the game from a yard not in my vocabulary." ball, that's all you can say," was going to see more playing 
out. Brown, though, had more to Brown said afterward. time."
Miami 
The Irish again looked as if say about the rest of the 'Canes' "You've got to catch the ball continued from page 16 they would bounce back and get on-field antics. before you can run. That's only Saturday'& Game into the game, but at the the "It was tough to keep your the second pass I've dropped 
Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0"We could still have come Miami 30, disaster struck poise, definitely," Brown said. this season and it came at a Miami 0 10 7 7 24 
Scoring

back," Rice said. "(If we had again. Rice pitched right for "They talk to you, and you just critical time." 
UM -Bratton 2·yd. run (Cox kick)scored) it would have changed Tony Brooks, but the pitch hit want to say something back to It wasn't a particularly stel­UM ·Cox 30-yd. FG UM -Bratton 1-yd. run (Cox kick)
everything." lead runner Braxston Banks in them. But it's always the lar day for the Heisman Trophy 
UM -Conley 6·yd. run (Cox kick)The 'Canes looked as if they the shoulder. George Mira, Jr., second man who gets caught. candidate, as he finished with NO UM 
First downs 22
would blow the game open fell on the ball, and the Irish (The referees) told us before only 95 total yards. Someone 13 
Rushing attempts 37 50when Randall Hill returned the wouldn't get any closer for the the game that if anyone was asked if he thought this had Net Yards Rushing 82 204 
Net Yards Passing 87 213
opening kickoff of the second rest of the game. caught talking to someone, harmed his chances. 
Passes camp-attempted 8-22 14-23 half 60 yards to the Irish 35. A six yard run by Conley in they would throw flags. That "I hope one game wouldn't Had intercepted 1 1 
Total Net Yards 169 417
The Hurricanes self-destructed the fourth quarter put the game definitely wasn't the case. decide it," Brown replied. 
Fumbles-lost 2·1 5-3 again, though, when quarter­away. They were talking all day, and Penalties-yards 6-50 8-50 Punts-average 8-42.3 3·45.0
back Steve Walsh fumbled at "I think on a given day (the no flags were thrown." •While Brown was on the field, 
Individual Leeder• the 11. Hurricanes) are probably the And just what was being said Heisman Trophy rival and Ft. RUSHING -Noire Dame: Green 8-28: Brooks 7-26; Johnson 4-21; Miami: Conley 15-87; Bratton 17-48;
best team in the country," out there? Lauderdale native Lorenzo 
Williams 7-39;Another Notre Dame drive Holtz said. "It will be very in­"Nothing you could print, I'll White of Michigan State was on PASSING -Noire Dame: Rice 7-19-1,84; K. Graham 1-3-0,3; Miami: Walsh 13-22-1,196; Erick·
went awry, and Miami put on teresting to see if they can do tell you that," Brown answered the Miami sidelines reportedly 
·son 1-1-0,17; an 11-play, 69-yard drive it two weeks in a row. They sure but did characterize it as the urging his friends on the Hur­RECEIVING -Noire Dame: Brown 3-37; Ward 1· 
16; Miami: Irvin 3-40; Williams 2·51;
capped by Bratton's second were impressive today." worst he'd heard in his life and ricane squad to stop Brown so Attendance -76,640 
•lnjiu:/. 11 trifnm; onJtmUtiT')'/5. 1988 So don Iprrxm11inale. © 1987Apple G!mz{IIIJer: Inc. Apple tmd the Apple tow; are rf!Rislered trademarks qfand.'rladntosh.lmaf!.tJJiriler.t;nd 'The pou!!l' to he.J~Jur he.1t.'are trtklemar!?s q(Apple Compuler.lnc. ~-,~·~=--'lll.V~=ai!B"'"Wj#· .. I iFj-...,.~.....,..tl.... t·--·JI ....... ,. .I' ....,..I
1~-~liiiliiolll ~~1~ l¥...,..,. ···--. ,.. ·''·•' ..· . . . . _p!Jil.-.y. ...,~~ .... _. 
J 29403511 A 
10 
WAsm.scn·oN.D.e. 
I 0 
J 29403511 A 10 

BuyaprlnterwithyourMacintoshandconservepaper 
AMacintosh"' personalcomputerand an ofpaper you'll save will have alovelygreen glowwith with avariety of financing options.We feel compelled to Presidents on it. So here's the deal: You'll save abundle tell you, though, that adeal like this can't last forever: So
~~=~~ ImageWriter"'II printer 

~ will save you hours of ofcash when you purchase an ImageWriter II printer it's agood idea to see your campus microcomputer ceo­time. Not to mention along with your choice of aMacintosh Plus or a ter today. And join the paper conservation movement. jji" gallonsofcorrection fluid and Macintosh SE.Eitherwayyou11 be able to turn out beau-•• reams ripaper. And, ifyou buy both now, the first ream tifully prepared papers. And we'll even try to help you The poMTto be)OUf be\1."' 


~------~~~~~~------~-----.--------~---­
___________________,_____________ 
----~~-------------­
Tuesday, December 1, 1987 

AP Photo 
Indiana head basketball coach Bob Knight will lead the defending champion Hoosiers Into Assembly Hall tonight to face the Notre Dame men's basketball team. Rick Rletbrock previews the contest at right. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
I credit David and the way he had· everybody into their roles. 
"Knowing how competitive he is, knowing he doesn't want to go out a loser, knowing he doesn't want to go out not being in the NCAA tournament ­

that's the only challenge -he lfli===M;;;==-iltf;;;;==M;;;==-i"-==-i"-=="-=="-==­
wants just to get in. I think once we get in, anything can hap­pen." 
To make anything happen, however, the Irish have a few holes to plug. Donald Royal averaged 15.8 points and seven rebounds per game, and Scott 
Hicks scored 11 points and 
~~~~~~own over four boards a 
Phelps has several people in 
mind to make up for the lost scoring. 
"Sean Connor and Mark Stevenson, they've got to be scorers for us," Phelps says."I think Sean can shoot the three-point shot. I think Mark 
is a very, very creative player."
Senior Gary Voce (4.7 ppg., 
6.3 rpg.), who showed great im­provement during last season, will look to continue his im­provement on the front line. 
Sophomores Scott Paddock and Jamere Jackson return and will play major roles and Joe Fredrick will also provide depth in the backcourt. 
Forward Tony Jackson is academically ineligible for the semester and junior guard Mi­chael Smith is out for eight weeks with a knee injury. 
Phelps will also have to get solid performances from some of his newcomers if last year's path of development is to be fol­lowed. 
Proposition 48 sophomore Keith Robinson will see a lot of duty on the front line. The Irish look for scoring and rebound­ing help from the 6-9 forward. 
Freshman Tim Singleton, along with Jackson, will be 

Irish face defending champ IU in season opener on the road 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Assistant Sports Editor 

BLOOMINGTON -For a head coach, it can be very difficult to figure out how good your team is by watching them prac­tice. 
Notre Dame head coach Dig­ger Phelps will be able to get a better idea of where his team stands when he puts it up against the reigning NCAA champion Indiana Hoosiers tonight (8 p.m. EST, WNDU­TV). 
The Hoosiers have lost a couple of mainstays from that 30-4 Big Ten co-champion squad. Steve Alford, Big Ten MVP and Indiana's all-time leading scorer, and his 22 points per game are gone, as is forward Daryl Thomas, who averaged 15.7 points 
But Hoosier head coach Bob Knight needs no sympathy. 
Indiana, currently ranked fifth, has three starters return­ing in 6-6 forward Rick Cal­loway, 6-10 center Dean Gar­rett and 6-1 guard Keith Smart. 
Calloway enters his junior 
season as a two-year starter. The inside-outside scoring threat has a 13.2 career scoring average.
Garrett and Smart are seniors who overcame early­season difficulties to make big contributions last season after transferring from junior col­leges, a new phenomenon at In­diana. 
Garrett filled the Hoosiers' hole in the middle by averaging 
11.4 points per game. He also grabbed 288 rebounds and blocked 93 shots to earn honors as the Big Ten's top newcomer. 
The talented Smart, mean­while, overcame an inconsis­tent regular season (11.2 ppg.) when he exploded in the NCAA tournament. In the champion­ship game against Syracuse, Smart canned 21 points, includ­ing 12 of IU's last 15 points and the game-winning jump shot with six seconds remaining. 
The supporting cast is a solid one. Redshirt junior forward­center Todd Jadlow, and senior swingmen Steve Eyl and Kreigh Smith (coming off a broken foot) provide experi­enced depth. Senior guard Joe Hillman has a back injury and may not play. 
Newcomers Lyndon Jones and Jay Edwards, both fresh­
~~;;;;;;~~~~~;;;;;;;~~~~~;;;~;;;;~;;;;;~~ 

Net birthday was last week, and she's 21 

NOW 
Wish her a Happy B-day and call her 
"Schnuggs" 

-She loves it! 
are also very promising in the back court. 
Indiana opened the season with a 90-65 win over Miami (Ohio). Garrett led the scoring with 25 points. 
Knight, who has a 367-119 career record at Indiana, says that last year's championship has to be ignored if his team is to progress as he wants it to. 
"The most important and the most difficult thing is to get them to forget that they were national champions, and that they aren't now," he says. "We just have a long way to go, and 
I  think  we've  said  that  all  
along.  
In last year's game at  the  

ACC, Indiana took a 67-62 win. The Hoosiers hold a 33-17 series edge, having won six of seven at Assembly Hall. 
Phelps says he thinks the early challenge can do nothing but help his untested squad. 
"I think this is what this team needs to do, I think we need to play someone that's very talented and it's obvious In­
men from Marion High School, diana is," he says. 
MEN & WOMEN PERMS $23 
~~~~£Y.!~ $G 255-1161 
• 

PRINCESS DI BEAUTY SALON'{f;J 
Walk-ins welcome or evenings 
w 
z 

by appointment. 513 E. Mckinley a.. 
0
<1: 
ii.i

Dianne, Shirley, and Ruth a: 
(.!) 
>
(All formerly of Regis) 
Ci 
MCKINLEY 

* 
513 
PARK MALL 

Tr'Or'"'".nr" solen
i;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;i
":;;::::;;:;;::~;ijiiiiiiiiiJi~ 
The United Way LOCK UP rf3 Dec. 3, 6-8 pm ~ 
Sign ups in dining halls or Student Govemment office (9 -4:30)
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 
Nov. 30, Dec. 1-2
8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
You pay $5.00 to arrest your friend 

ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
They pay $5.00 for ball 
"IIOIEta AYMNlu AT lll! CMC _,.....IOliOI'I'ICZ. 

All money goes to the United Way Drive
---NOiml
~~-.....­
(II.ICIWit).AMIJJL'I(IA 

sponsored by Student Government 
l.ai.....,IM
-
-·­

Tuesday, December 1, 1987 
The Observer page 13 

The Observer I John Studebaker Notre Dame's fast break style of play left Heidi Bunek (44) with plenty of opportunities under the basket Monday night against Northwestern. Brian O'Gara details Notre Dame's win on page 16. 
HONOO 
P~E A~ 

Lecture by 
TeAM? MIKE McCLURE 
VP of Marketinrl . -:;;-~t\1'\ ~tS~· ·~.::::--~,W 
~ / 

DEC. 7/7-"~0 ·> ~ 
122 HAYES 1 mar\<:eting club. 

McGraw brings in new style 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
A year ago, all was not well with the Notre Dame women's basketball program. 
A rocky road paved with tough losses and players quit­ting the team finally ended with six straight wins and 12-15 record. To cap off the struggle, head coach Mary DiStanislao resigned at season's end. 
The Irish would be returning all five starters, three reserves, a bundle of potential, but no head coach. Enter Muf­fet McGraw. 
In five years, McGraw had compiled a record of 88-42 at Lehigh in Philadelphia, includ­ing a 24-4 clip and East Coast Conference championship last winter. Why did she leave? 
"The challenge of getting to the NCAA Tournament," said McGraw after the Irish im­proved their record to 2-0 with a win over Northwestern last night. "I didn't have that at Lehigh, there was no chance for a bid. Here we think, be­cause we have so much of a national school in the national limelight, that if we have a good season with our schedule and beat a couple of Top 20 teams, we can get to the tourn­ament." 
To get there, McGraw brought her patented Lehigh style of play, a pressure defense which would force turnovers and create a fast­break offense. The team she in­herited did not play that type of basketball, or at least it did not play it with consistent effi­ciency. Point guard Mary Gavin could run the ball, but Notre Dame's main strength was a big front line that could out-rebound, but not always out-score, the opponent. 
"It (McGraw's fast-paced style) doesn't fit in as well as it could," says McGraw. "But the team is adjusting really well to that style of play. They are really working to learn it and to think about getting down the floor a little better. I think they like it -it's a little more exciting for them. And we 
(4-of-4) and sophomore for­
Gavin 
ward Annie Schwartz (3-of-3) continued from page 16 filled the hoop off Gavin passes turnovers with a full-court on the fast break to give the press and quick two-three zone. Irish a 32-21 lead at the half. 
Despite struggling with turn­One patent Gavin-led charge overs on passes inside, the Irish showed the intensity of were nearly perfect on field McGraw's team, with four goal attem ts. Toney Notre Dame players beatin 
THE NORTH MERIDAN INN 
1530 N. Meridan Indianapolis, IN 46202 collect (31 7) 634-6100 
BANK ONE BIG FOUR 
CLASSIC SPECIAL: 
December 5th $35 plus tax (1-4 to a room) *Busing prearranged through Sales Dept. 
Lecture by:GEORGE PLIMPTON ''AN AMATEUR AMONG THE PROS'' 
Tuesday, December 1 8:00pm Washington Hall Tickets: $2.00 sold at the Ticket Stub Monday -Friday 3-5 pm Call 239-7757 for further information. 
-played quarterback for the Detroit Lions, basketball {or the Boston Cel­tics, hockey for the Boston Bruins, percussion for the New York Philhar­monic, founded The Paris Review 


signed two really good players for next year, and they both can run." 
McGraw likes what she sees from her team, not only in their play on the court but their at­titude about the season. 
"What we need from our team right now," says McGraw, who ranks 35th in the nation among active coaches with her .682 winning percentage, "is for them to keep the attitude they have now. The attitide is so good that it makes us work hard and play together, and that generates good defense which helps the break." 
The break. Anyone at last night's 69-49 victory over Northwestern saw the Irish use the fast break, and better than that, win with the fast break. If McGraw has her way, they'll be doing that a lot this winter. And the fast pace is not just more exciting for the players. From the sounds of the crowd last night, fans in the Joyce ACC seats will like it some too. 
every Wildcat down the court and Robinson finishing off the break with a layup. 
Northwestern tried several times to stage a comeback, closing the gap to 40-31, before McGraw called her first timeout of the night with 15: 30 remaining in the game. Two short jumpers by Schwartz and two coast-to-coast Gavin drives 
sparked the Irish  on  a  nine­ 
point  run,  from  which  they  
would never look back.  

Carol Elliot replaced Gavin with 3: 43 remaining and would be the recipient of three staight Wildcat fouls as Northwestern sought one final comeback stab. Elliot cooly sank six straight free throws to ice the win. 

A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY 
EDUCATION FORTIIE 
-REALWORLD 
Graduate degree programs(MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International business, developmen~ eco­nomics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Studies and the Middle East 
Dual ~ p~ in in­ternational busmess (MBA­MA) and urban and regionalplanning (MURP-MA). 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply byFebruary 1. 
GRADOO:'E SCHOOL 

OF INTERtOO'IONAL SWDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4303 


-------..-----~----------------~----··-----· "---~-~~----­
The Notre Dame men's cross country team pulled Championships on a major surprise by placing seventh in the NCAA national title. 
Skins Game wants Palmer to return 
Associated Press 
LA QUINTA, Calif.-The Skins Game will be back. 
Lee Trevino will be back. 
And it's up to Arnold Palmer as to whether he'll be back. 
"He's had the greatest im­pact of any man who ever played the game. He's the most popular player who ever lived. He's magic," said Don Ohlmeyer, president of Ohlmeyer Communications and originator of the popular, two-day, 18-hole, made-for­television Skins Game. 
"As long as I have anything to do with it, Arnold can play as long as he likes," Ohlmeyer said. Ohlmeyer and Barry Frank, of Trans World Interna­tional, as the sponsors, have the option of picking one of the four participants. 
Palmer, 58, was their pick 
TIME TO PREPARE. 

START YOUR KAPLAN PREP 
COURSE NOW AND SAVE!!! 
* 
10% discount until Dec. 31. 

* 
Use Study Center now until April exam. 

* 
Transfers for holidays available. 

* 
Beat 1988 price increase. 

* 
Reserve place in class. 


(Popular instructor Dan Stock is back!) 
INVEST IN YOUR FUTURE. ~ 

·­
KAPLANI 
STANLEY H KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The world's leading test prep organization 
CAll DAYS. EVENINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Phone 219/272-4135 South Bend, IN 46637 

this year. He did not win a skin, did not win a dollar. 
"It's entirely up to Arnold. If he wants to play, he'll get a spot," Ohlmeyer said. 
"What we're trying to do is get the four players the public wants to see play. Not neces­sarily the guy who wins the most money. We want the players the public wants. 
"Now, we have gone into a senior Skins Game (the in­augural to be in Hawaii in Jan­uary). Arnold's going to play in that. 
"Maybe he'll decide he's a senior and wants to concen­trate on senior play," Ohlmeyer said. 
The fifth Skins Game, played over the weekend, was hlgh­lighted on Sunday by Lee Trevino's hole-in-one on the 17th hole. 
Tuesday, December 1 , 1987 
Men's cross countryplaces 7th in nation 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team completed a Cin­derella finish to its season by placing seventh in the NCAA Championships at Charlottes­ville, Va., on Nov. 23. 
Senior Dan Garrett led the Irish squad, recording a 29.26 time that was sixth in the country among individuals. The team's finish was Notre Dame's best in 23 years. 
"Realistically, we wanted to finish in the top 10, but we knew it would take a tremendous ef­fort, said Irish coach Joe Piane. "Dan Garrett ran a tremen­dous race. His time was great, Observer I Mike Moran but it was how intelligently he Nov. 23. Arkansas won the ran that was impressive. He must have had 50 runners in 
Ihe-Obs.-e~~o.__ 
--. ----A.-=-Y=-.-,~--:__ 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Investment BankingOpportunities at First Boston. 
The First Boston Corporation, a special bracket investment banking firm, will be recruiting at the University of Notre Dame for its financial analyst program. All Seniors are cordially invited 
<o "'cj '" ;ofmm'l p<o.cm,.;oo .ad recop,;oo. 
J>rese nta tion/Reception: 
\Vednesday, December 2, 14H7 The !\!orris Inn (Alumni Room) 7-4 p.m. 
Interviewing schedule: 
Thursday. FebruarY IH. IYHH 
For further information and inquiries 
please feel free to contact: 
Patrick .\1. Collins (Class of 'H6 
(312) 750-3096 
The First Boston Corporation 
1.15 S. LASALLE STREET. #7.15 

front of him after a mile, but he never panicked and just reeled in the pack. I'm really proud of him and the rest of our team. I think we surprised a lot of people today." 
Other individual finishers for Notre Dame included junior Ron Markezich (48th), sopho­more Mike O'Connor (67th), freshman Ryan Cahill (106th), senior Rick Mulvey (125th), freshman Pat Kearns (130th) and sophomore Tom Macken (179th). 
This seventh-place finish fol­lowed a 1986 season in which the Irish placed only 15th in their district and a 1987 regular season in which Notre Dame failed to win an invitational. 
MAPLE LANE 

APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addJtion wt offer you a special discount. 
4 apartments per buil«!ing, on 65 
spacious acres 
11 
Pool, Clubhouse, 

Community Activities 
Washer & Dryer in 
each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced 
• 
gas/heat 
Eartbtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details 
277-3731 

models and clubhouse open daily 

------------------·-­
Tuesday, December 1, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
-----------------------~------------------~--~~--------~----~--~~~-.--~--------------------~~-------­
Campus 
Noon: Kellogg Institute brown bag seminar: "Do Organizations Determine Social Stratification? The Case of Sweden," by Peter Hedstrom, University of Chicago, 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
1 p.m.: Ladies of ND I SMC Chr)stmas Tea -SMC Stapleton Lounge 
3:30 p.m.: GTE Scholar Series and Department of Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar -"Experimental Studies of Solid Acid Catalysts and Ideas for Kinetic Modeling in Catalyst Design," by J. A. Dumesic, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:15p.m.: History and Philosophy of Science Program Lecture "Political Judg­ment: Galileo and the Pope," by Howard Margolis, University of Chicago. Room 131 Decio. 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium "Advances in Magnetic Resonance Imaging for Medical Applications," by Petra Schmalbrock, Ohio State. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar-"Genetic Control of Meiotic Develop­ment in Yeast," by Mary Clancy, Notre Dame. Room 283, Auditorium, Galvin Life Science Center -Coffee at 4:15p.m. 
6:30p.m. -8 p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series "Test Prep­aration," by Patrick utz. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 7 p.m.: ND-SMC Right to Life General Meeting, LaFortune Student Center, Montgomery Room. 7 p.m. & 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film-"Pretty in Pink," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: SMC Justice Education Program Film Theme: Justice in the Context of the United States Constitution. "The Weavers." Carroll Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Ham, Turkey, Broccoli and Cheese Sandwich BBQ Pork Ribs Roast Beef Spinach Quiche 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
RK5T t.l'l 5NOWR.AK€ Of 11£ 5€1150N, t5 TH£~ xme ~f((M()fl, WHY 11KJI.I t./6/fT& 'fON MY SNOOT, 
M£THINK5 IT 1/U Jf/.51./&HTZ.Y... 
1._ 

Beernuts 
...R6PI/T€. 

0
... cvm. 
... f?/550/,.1/T€ . 
... 111?1/m. 0 
•. 6/..et.TI(OC(Jm,. 

0 = \ 0 
0 ... N6WT... 0 
\ 

87 I 11AN, (fl£7 SURf. 
OON'r MAK£ /.£1/1 S 
UK.[ THtY fJSElJ 
TO._ .. 

MANHATTAN 
$1.00 admission Cushing Auditorium 
Saint Mary's 
Veal Scallopini 

Baked Fish with Tartar 
Sauce Beef and Bean Chimic­hanga Deli Bar 
Berke Breathed 
0 
0 
0 
oO 
O•eo 0 .. 
Mark Williams 
o o. 


TAKE 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Scurry 5 -mater 9 File 

13 Woodwind 14 Charter 16 Sound return 17 Dash 18 Laader of a 
kind 20 -Foxx 21 Sport 22 Sale spur 26 Empty space 27 Cleric 26 Cutting tool 32 Decorative 
vase 33 Destroy 35 lt. province 36 Circles 38 -Mineo 39 US statesman 
of old 40 Soothsayer 41 Of the teeth 43 Doctrine 44 Overdue debts 46 Store sign 46 Onassls 49 Pugent bulbs 50 Sets up 54 Iridescent gem 57 Route 
barricades 60 Neck hair 61 Part of Earth 62 Lean 63 Religious 
Image 64 Slippery 65 OED word 66 Coin 
DOWN 1 Performer 2 Adept 3 Bird 4 Sore 5 Mountain 6 Grassland 7 Twin crystal 8 Bewildered 9 Replied 
sharply 10 NT book 11 Females 
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

12 Small opening r:=::=:=:=::=;=;::::;:::::::==::::::;::=:=:;=::'l 
15 Steep slope 
19 Penn. city 
23 Cudgels 
24 Dined 
25 Annoys 
27 Town ­
28 US Inventor 29 Slow galt 
30 Aromatic plant 
31 Weather word 
32 -Major 
34 Sped 
37 "It's a -for the Irish" 39 Besides 41 Dental tools 42 Blackbird 45 Semite 47 Of a lawless state 


49 Author Wilde 50 Dies ­51 Proboscis 52 Navigate 55 Shortly 58 Malay Isthmus 53 Canter 56 Advanced 59 Coterie 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

Saloon scenes on other planets 

~~~~---~~-=--=--====~----_-_--_-_---~------=--=--=-----------___ 
~ae~ S~p_o_r_t_S_______
_________ Tue-sday,-oecem-ber1_.1987
16 

NO basketball teams open their seasons 
-_---~---­

Men look to Rivers to answer questions 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
The 1987-88 Notre Dame basketball team enters the season in much the same situation it did last season. Untested. Full of questions. Full of potential. 
The big difference from last season is that preseason first-team all-American David Rivers is healthy from the very start. 
The Irish started slowly last season, with losses to Western Kentucky and Indiana, but developed into an outstanding squad by season's end. Along the way, the Irish made a habit of dumping nationally-ranked teams, in-
See IU preview, page 12 
eluding then-No. 1 North Carolina, Duke and DePaul. 
They finished 24-8, after losing to the Tar Heels in the East Regional semifinal, and claimed an 18th ranking in the final wire­service polls. 
Head Coach Digger Phelps says even though matching last year's pleasant surprise will be difficult, the same kind improvement is possi­ble this year because of one man. 
"David Rivers has been our team for the last three years as the guy who can make other people do things," Phelps says. "I thought last year, as we finished with 24 wins, and finished in the final 16 in the NCAA tournament, as he got stronger as the year went on, we got stronger. 
"Nobody expected us to do what we did, and 
see IRISH, page 12 

2nd-ranked 'Canes 
Miami dominates ND 
from start to 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
MIAMI -This time, there was no talk of running up the score. This time there was only talk of domination and frustration. 
The Miami Hurricanes did both to the Irish Saturday af­ternoon at the Orange Bowl, holding Notre Dame to 169 yards of offense en route to a 24-0 shutout. 
The Irish were stymied at every turn on offense. Of 11 pos­sessions, eight ended in punts, two in turnovers and one in the final gun. All and all a day of frustration. 
"What we couldn't do is get a continuity where we could stay with them in the first half," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz, whose team finished the season at 8-3 after suffering its biggest margin of defeat in his two years. "They changed thier defenses, they blend dif­ferent things around, and that presented some problems." 
When the Irish couldn't get their ground express rolling, the 'Canes turned up the heat on quarterbacks Tony Rice and Kent Graham, registering six sacks for 28 yards in losses and batting down passes at the line. 
"We tried to get them into passing situations," said Hur­ricane defensive tackle Daniel Stubbs. "Their linemen are big, and their quarterbacks stay in the pocket. We felt we 
finish 

could out-finesse them to get clear and make Rice throw a bad pass or knock it down. Every time we play a team like Notre Dame or Oklahoma, if we get a certain number of points ahead, they have to throw the ball. They are not known as great passing teams." 
What had to make the game more frustrating for the Irish was the fact that the Miami of­fense didn't play particularly well either. The 'Canes turned the ball over four times, includ­ing fummbles at the Irish one and 13 yardlines. Another drive fizzled at the Irish 13, resulting in a field goal. 
After a scoreless first quar­ter, Miami opened the scoring on a two-yard run by Melvin Bratton. The Irish responded by marching to the Hurricane 
28. But on second-and-12, Miami free safety Bennie Blades picked off a Rice pass. 
The Irish appeared to have stopped the Hurricanes on their ensuing possession when Hur­ricane punter Jeff Feagles dropped back to punt on fourth down at the Irish 41. Instead, the 'Canes pulled the fake and Leonard Conley picked up eight yards and a first down. Still, the Irish held the 'Canes to a field goal, a 30-yarder by Greg Cox, and trailed only 10-0 at the half. 
see MIAMI, page 11 

Women use break to run past Wildcats 
By BRIAN O'GARA Assistant Sports Editor 
See the Irish. See them run. See them win. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team literally ran away with a 69-49 win over Northwestern last night, using a Mary Gavin­led fast break and a tough zone defense to keep the Wildcats from developing any sort of mo­mentum. 
"We finally got the break going tonight," said first-year head coach Muffett McGraw, "I was really happy with that. But it was prompted by good defense, that was the key." 
See McGraw feature, page 13 
The guard trio of Gavin, junior Diondra Toney and freshman Karen Robinson came up with 11 steals and 13 assists between them, including eight handouts for Gavin, who already is Notre Dame's career assists and steals leader with 535 and 188 respectively. 
Both teams, however, were troubled by turn­overs all night long, helping to create the fast break style of the game. The Irish gave the ball away 29 times while Northwestern committed 25 turnovers. 
"We were forcing it a lot," said McGraw. ''Actually the inside players were open but the passes just weren't that good. We made some adjustments at halftime to get it in a little easier by going through the wing and I thought that was effective." 
Notre Dame, now 2-0 with a 67-61 win at Loyola on Saturday, jumped out to a quick 10-3 lead by running the break after forcing Wildcat 
see GAVIN, page 13 

storm past Irish, 24-0 

Miami's offensive line left quarterback Steve Walsh with plenty of time to throw the ball, as the Irish never could amass a steady pass rush. 
Cotton Bowl tickets on -sale Thursday 
Special to The Observer dent may present up to four ID's. Married students may 
Tickets to the 1988 Cotton purchase a ticket for their Bowl Classic go on sale to stu­spouses. dents Thursday, Dec. 3 begin­Student sales will continue ning at 9 a.m. at gate 10 of the Friday, Dec. 4. Sales close at 5 Joyce ACC. No lines will be per­p.m. both days. mitted to form until 6:30 a.m. Faculty,staff members who Thursday morning. purchased regular season tick­
Tickets are priced at $25. ets and contributing alumni Each Notre Dame and Saint will receive an application for Mary's student may buy one a maximum of two tickets. All ticket per student ID. Each stu-applications received by 5 p.m. 
Monday, Dec. 7, will be in­cluded in the determination of successful applications. Orders for more than two tickets will be returned. 
Receipt of an application does not guarantee tickets. If demand exceeds supply, a lot­tery will be held amongst con­tributing alumni applications to determine winners. Tickets will be mailed to winners of a lottery on Dec. 11. 

