Associate provost -page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 70 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

More court action on fatal accidents awaiting students 
By ANN KALTENBACH Assistant News Editor 
A Notre Dame student pleaded not guilty in St. Joseph County Superior Court on Dec. 19 to charges of reckless homicide and involuntary manslaughter stemming from a fatal accident occuring Nov. 7, according to St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
The student's trial is sched­uled for "sometime in February" Barnes said. An­
other  Notre  Dame  student  
whose  car  struck  and killed  
Zahm  Hall  junior  Michael  

Cogswell three weeks later on Dec. 6, has been subpoened to appear before a grand jury Jan. 28 in St. Joseph County Superior Court, according to Barnes. 
The first accident occurred on Edison near Ivy Road, ac­cording to police reports, shortly after the Notre Dame­Penn State football game. A South Bend man was struck by the student's car and died the following day, police reports stated. 
Following the accident, the student was arrested and posted bond on misdemeanor charges of drunk driving and driving with an expired license, according to police reports. 
Those charges were dis­missed, according to Barnes, because, he said, "these charges are more appropriate given the circumstances." 
Barnes said the reckless homicide charge is a Class C felony carrying a maximum penalty of up to eight years in prison and $10,000. The mini­mum penalty is punishable by at least three years in prison, he said. 
The involuntary manslaughter charge, Barnes said, is a Class D felony punish­able by up to four years in prison and $10,000. The mini­mum penalty, he said, carries at least a one-year prison term. 
The student's bond was set at $5,000, according to Barnes. He was released Dec. 19, 1986, after posting 10 percent of the total or $500, said Barnes. 
The alleged, 21-year-old driver in the second accident has been issued a target sub­poena, Barnes said. 
"This subpoena," he said, "indicates ... he may have cri­minal responsibility.'' 
According to Barnes, sub­poenas may be issued to other Notre Dame students to testify Jan. 28 about the fatal accident. At that time, Barnes said, the grand jury will hear "the facts and circumstances surround­ing the accident." 
He said no charges in connec­tion with the second accident have yet been filed. 
One of Cogswell's room-
see FATAL, page 5 

Fund to be established in Cogswell's memory 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI "someone who enjoyed life, Assistant News Editor liked music, and liked to write," he said. It won't go 
More than $7,000 has been to someone who is merely contributed to a scholarship smart, and there will be no fund at the high school of the restrictions on parents' in­Notre Dame junior who died come or the college the after being struck by a car recipient wishes to attend, in early December. he said. 
The Michael C. Cogswell A committee consisting of Memorial Scholarship Fund Duffy, Cogswell's father and will soon be established at an English and music Marcellus High School and teacher will determine who will give approximately $750 gets the scholarship, Duffy to a single recipient each said. year, according to Joseph Duffy, a guidance counselor Cogswell died on Dec. 6 at at the high school. Duffy said St. Joseph's Medical Center he hopes to complete work after being struck on Saint on the scholarship fund Mary's Road, about 1000 feet within the month and award west of U.S. 33. the first scholarship this Anyone wishing to donate spring. to the fund can send contri­
butions to Joseph Duffy at 
The scholarship will be Marcellus High School, given to "someone like Reed Parkway Marcellus, Mike," said Duffy, N.Y. 13108. 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1987 
$1,200 taken, steins broken in burglary, says Security 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Security is in­vestigating the Jan. 5 burglary of the University Club, a break­in in which seven beer steins totaling $79,900 were destroyed and more than $1,200 in cash stolen. 
Security has at least one suspect in the early-morning burglary, but has made no ar­rests, said Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson. 
Johnson said the beer steins, which were housed in a glass display case, were "deliberately broken." 
The suspect or suspects destroyed the steins after breaking in through a window, he said. The private club is lo­cated next to the Center for Continuing Education. 
Johnson said he did not know who owned the steins nor ex­actly what made them so valu­able. "They were obviously col­lector's items of some sort;" he said. 
In a separate incident, two Notre Dame students were robbed at knife point at about 
12:30 a.m. Wednesday, Johnson said. 
The female students were ap­proached by three men while walking along Notre Dame Av­enue and Napoleon Street, and robbed of an undisclosed amount of money, he said. 
The South Bend Police De­

. partment is handling the inves­
tigation, he added. 
In another unrelated inci­dent, a 1974 Chevrolet Nova was stolen from a parking lot 

during Tuesday night's  Ratt  
concertA construction worker peers at the sky through a grid of girders  at  the  ACC,  said  
Johnson.  

see BURGLARY, page 4 



Dupont Plaza Hotel bartender arraigned in connection with fire 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico-A bartender was arraigned Wed­nesday on a federal charge of conspiring with a maintenance man in the New Year's Eve ar­son fire that killed 96 people at the Dup~mt Plaza. 
Armando Jimenez Rivera, 28, identified by federal officials as an employee of the hotel bar, and Hector Escudero Aponte, a 35-year-old hotel mainte­nance worker, were arrested Tuesday. 
Escudero Aponte was charged Tuesday with arson, destruction of property and 96 counts of murder. Jimmez Rivera was accused of conspir­ing with him to destroy the hotel by fire. 
The federal complaint against Jiminez Rivera said he went to the hotel penthouse to get a can of Sterno-type fuel and then ''stood with others in front of Escudero (Aponte) to block others' view so that Es­cudero (Aponte) could put the Sterno on a staek of boxed furniture in the south ballroom area." 
The complaint did not iden­tify any other suspects. A federal investigator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, "We're trying to find everyone who was involved. If it was two people, we want them both; if it was 10 people, we want all10." 
Federal officials have identi­fied Jimenez Rivera and Es­cudero Aponte as Teamsters members. The union held a meeting in the ballroom a few minutes before the fire broke out. 
At the meeting, the union rejected a hotel contract offer and planned to strike at mid­night New Year's Eve. 
Union leaders have denied any involvement in the blaze, which raged through the mezzanine-level casino and 
see HOTEL, page 4 
The Observer 

lin Brief 

The Observer has announced two staff promotions. Soph­omore Kim Yuratovac, formerly day editor, has been named day chief, and sophomore Christopher Murphy has been appointed Viewpoint editor -The Observer 
Former President Jimmy Carter said he admires his daughter Amy for standing up for what she believes is right, even though she has ended up getting arrested in demonstrations. Amy was first arrested in April 1985 while protesting at the South African embassy in Washington. Recently, the Brown University sophomore was arrested at a Nov. 24 demonstration against CIA recruitment on the campus of the University of Massachusetts. ­
Associated Press 

The nation's oldest known twins, Allie Grubb Hill and Maggie Grubb Lambeth, have celebrated their 103rd birthday with a party at their nursing home in Denton, 
N.C. and congratulations from President Reagan. The Guinness Book of World Records estimated the chances of twins surviving to age 103 to be one in 500 million. The sisters have 180 direct descendants. -Associated Press 
The dollar slid on world currency markets Tuesday, hitting four-to seven-year lows against five major cur­rencies. The U.S. currency's decline came despite efforts to support it by the Bank of Japan, dealers said. The outlook for the dollar remains dampened by concern over the bloated U.S. trade deficit and the prospect of sluggish economic growth for the country this year. -Associated Press 
Vice President of Nicaragua Sergio Ramirez said Wed­nesday it is unlikely municipal elections will be held this year as promised because of "great difficulties" in or­ganizing them. He cited the high cost of holding elections, the need for a new election law following last week's ap­proval of a new constitution and compiling new voter registration rolls as reasons for the delay. -Associated 
Press 


Of Interest 
The Center For Basic Learning Skills needs tutors to work one day a week, Monday-Thursday 1:15-3:15 p.m., tutoring adults in basic math, writing and reading skills. Transportation is provided to and from the Center. Inter­ested persons should contact Christopher at 283-3115. -The Observer 
The Conviser-Miller CPA Review Course, An Open House will take place today at 3:30p.m. in the first floor band room in Washington Hall. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Fifth Sun", presented by Communication And Theatre, will be held today and Friday. "The Fifth Sun" is a "Readers' Theatre Production" about the Arch­bishop Romero in El Salvador. Auditioners are asked to prepare a two-minute reading of non-dramatic prose. In­terested students should attend the COTH meeting tonight at 7 in Washington Hall. -The Observer 

Weather 

Frosty may shrink a bit as today's highs reach the mid 30s with cloudy skies. A 20 percent chance of snow tonight with lows in the upper 20s to low 30s. A 50 percent chance of snow Friday with highs in the low 30s. -Associated Press 
~-----_ Ihe.-Obse~~or__ 
----~ -&.""=Y=-'-' ----
Derign E dltOT  .  .. . Rob Luxem  
Delrign Auiltant  .........  Cathy Stacy  
TJiperetter  .............  Mike Buc  
New• Editor....  .  .. .....  Ann Kaltenbach  
CopJI Editor .. ..  .. .. ..  .. ...  Chris Julka  


Sparta CopJI EditOT . ............. Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy EditOf' ...... Sara Marley Viewpoint LaJioul. ............. Allee Groner Accent CopJI EdltOT ......... Tracie Fetters Accent LaJiout........... Kathy Kronenberg TJ1pilt .. .. ... .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. Colleen Foy ND Da11 Editor ................. Jane Kravclk SMC Da11 Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Derign .......................... Joan Wrappe ............................... Mary Carol Creadon Photographer..... .. . Paul Oeschger 
Tbe Oblerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Oblerver is a member of The Auoclaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 2 




What can the president do, and when can he do it? 
The question being asked on Capital Hill these 
days is reminiscent of one asked only 12 years 
ago, "What did the president know, and when 
did he know it?" For constitutional theorists, 
the deeper question may be "What can the pres­
ident do, and when can he do it?" 
While everybody is justified in being outraged 
by the events surrounding the Iran-Contra scan­
dal, the presidency, as stated in The Federalist 
Papers, requires a need for for energy, secrecy 
and dispatch in the executive. 
Recent calls for increased policy openness 
from the Oval Office ignore The Federalist 
Papers where it is noted, in certain matters, 
openness will only result in indecisiveness, 
delay and danger. In the Iran case, the danger 
was to the American hostages and to moderate 
elements seeking their release. 
"What emerges from the Framer's discus­sions is a desire to give the president powers adequate to the responsibilities of the office.," write Ralph Rossum and G. Alan Tarr in their book "American Constitutional Law." 
"In order to fulfill their military, diplomatic, and national security responsibilities, (presidents) must at times withhold sensitive information from congressional and public scrutiny." Without such ability, they could not carry out their assigned tasks. 
At the outset of the Civil War, for example, Lincoln, on grounds that it was his duty to preserve the Union, enacted several measures which were highly questionable on legal grounds. Congress later gave its aprroval to Lincoln's actions as the Supreme Court noted in its opinion in The Prize Cases which stated the president had the right to institute the block­ade of rebel states' ports. 
Which is not to say that I am suggesting the president's prerogative powers should be with­out limitations. 
In fact, the key question concerning Gipper­gate may well be whether the Reagan admin­istration can produce evidence that national se­curity interests warranted the Contra funding. In short, does Communism in South America mean the president today can do what Lincoln did and temporarily ignore the law? 
In the case of the United States v. Curtiss­Wright Corporation, the Supreme Court declared "Moreover, (the president), not Congress, has the better opportunity of knowing the conditions which prevail in foreign countries". The court continued by stating the president has confidential sources of informa­tion; diplomatic, consular and other agents. But most importantly it stated, "Secrecy in respect of information gathered by them may be highly necessary, and premature disclosure of it pro­ductive of harmful results." 
The opinion continues by stating: "So clearly is this true that the first President refused to accede to a request to lay before the House of Representatives the instructions, correspond­ence and documents relating to the negotiation of the Jay Treaty" And it concluded by noting, "a refusal the wisdom of which was recognized by the House itself and never since been doubt­ed." 


"Both governmental practice and judicial decisions, then, confirm that the nation's gov­ernment possesses broad powers to deal with crises in external affairs," Rossum and Tarr state. Does this permit the temporary suspen­sion of Constitutional provisions? For Lincoln it did when he suspended the writ of habeus corpus; for Franklin Roosevelt it did when he ordered the forced evacuation of Japanese resi­dents from the West Coast. 
Their actions resulted in two cases. In Korematsu v. U.S., the court ruled that for a government to wage war it must be able to do it successfully; consequently, the government may engage in activity which would be uncon­stitutional in peacetime. Reagan has virtually been waging an undeclared war against the Nicaraguan government but has not been too successful. 
In Ex Parte Milligan, the court took a more restrictive view and said the same constitu­tional limitations exist in peacetime as in war­time. 
The ultimate answer here may rest in Justice Robert Jackson's dissent in the Korematsu case where he said, in part, there are some areas where the Constitution is inadequate. He said what is expedient on military grounds may not be constitutionally permissible. In the case of Gippergate, the president saw a need, whether real or imaginary, to keep the Contra effort alive until he could gain the support of the Congress and the people, which he later did. 
The key question in the Gippergate affair may well be whether the situation warranted the use of such powers as the president decided to use. 

DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KI.L A FRIENDSHIR 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre announces 
Auditions for The Fifth Sun by Nicholas Patricca Thursday and Friday, Jan. 15 and 16 
Auditioners are asked to prepare a two minute reading of non-dramatic prose. Auditioners are also asked to attend the organizatinal meeting of the COTH department Jan. 15 at 7:00 p.m. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre announces an 
Organizational Meeting Thursday, Jan. 15 at 7:00p.m. in Washington Hall 

All students interested in participating in The Fifth Sun or Macbeth in any capacity should attend this short meeting. 
The Observer 
Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 3 
Marijuana found in systems of both Conrail crewmen 
Associated Press found to have marijuana in their system at the time of the 
WASHINGTON-Both crew­accident, federal investigators men of the Conrail locomotive said Wednesday. that ran a stop signal and slid One source close to the inves­into the path of a speeding tigation said the amounts of Amtrak passenger train were marijuana on blood and urine and last month was arrested for drunken driving. 

The tests on Gates, 32, an 11­year employee of Conrail, and the brakeman, Edward Crom­well, showed no evidence of al­cohol in either of the men, however. 
The Federal Railroad Ad­ministration, which released the test results, said in a state­ment, "The findings do not con­stitute an allegation of fault or determination of probable cause" and will be considered along with other evidence developed during the investiga­tion under way by the National Transportation Safety Board. 
There was no comment from NTSB officials. 

Envoy makes 
•
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite re­ported "good progress" Wed­nesday in his efforts to free American and other foreign hostages in Lebanon, and said he was greatly encouraged by the support expressed for his mission. 
His upbeat remarks came despite failure earlier Wednes­day to win an outright pledge of support from the nation's strongest Shiite Moslem militia and despite an announcement from Saudi Arabia that an em­ployee at its embassy was kid­napped in Moslem west Beirut Monday night. 
Eighteen foreigners now are missing in Lebanon--six Americans, six Frenchmen, two Britons, one Italian, one Irishman, one South Korean and the Saudi Arabian. 
Waite advised "foreign cor­respondents who want to come to this part of Beirut not to come for the time being." 
Waite said his concern sprang from the abduction Tuesday of French reporter­photographer Roger Auque, the 13th foreign journalist kid­napped in west Beirut since Moslem militias seized control from the army in February 1984. Seven have escaped or have been set free. 
"And I advise Westerners who are still livin~ in this part of Beirut to take extreme precautions," Waite told a news conference. 

He spoke after meetings with militia and religious leaders on the third day of his fifth visit to Beirut. 
Waite, personal emissary of Archbishop of Canterbury Robert Runcie, said he was "greatly encouraged by the support that has been ex­pressed for my humanitarian mission here. I've received a great deal of support and un­derstanding." 
"I have every reason to believe that good progress is being made," Waite said, stressing he was "not going to be specific about certain plans, but there are plans." 
Waite began his day with a 40-minute, closed-door session with retired Col. Akef Haidar, second-in-command of Justice Minister Nabih Berri's Shiite Amal militia. 
samples taken from the two men within hours of the Jan. 4 accident near Baltimore were "a sufficient amount" to indi­cate possible chronic or recent use of the drug. 
It remained uncertain, however, whether the mari­time of the accident, said the source, who asked not to be identified. 
Meanwhile, motor vehicle of­ficials in Maryland confirmed that the engineer, Robert Gates, has a number of motor 

The Observer Thursday, January 15, 1987 -l>age 4 

Former secretary of state calls arms sale 'foolhardy' 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Former Secretary of State Cyrus Vance said Wednesday the Reagan administration's decision to secretly sell arms to Iran was an expensive blunder that cost the United States the trust of its allies. 
While sources in and out of government said the State De­partment's chief official on Central America had worked closely with then-White House aide Oliver North in controlling what the administration says was private military aid for Nicaraguan rebels, Vance questioned the rationale for the arms sales. 
"To be blunt, this great na­tion -if it is to remain worthy of global leadership -cannot again manage its foreign rela­tions as an amateur," said Vance, leadoff witness for a se­ries of Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee hearings on the policies behind clanestine 

Burglary 
continued/rom page I 

The car, valued at $500, was later found "burned or torched" in Berrian County, Mich., he said. Security and Berrian County police are in­vestigating the theft. 
Also during the concert, Se­curity confiscated marijuana from 10 people and removed them from the arena, said Johnson. The 10 were not ar­rested, but their names· were turned over to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. 
Security confiscated less than an ounce of marijuana in each ease, he said. No one in­volved was a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student. 
Iran arms deal and the diver­decisions on the Contras, in­sion of some proceeds to the cluding American distribution rebels, known as Contras. of weapons from an alleged 
Vance questioned the stated private aid network during a rationale behind the arms ini­congressional ban on direct tiative -a concern about possi­and indirect U.S. government ble Soviet encroachment into military assistance. the strategically vital Persian Sources said this trio over­Gulf area. Such a possibility saw the air-resupply operation has always existed, he said. that included the arms-laden Vance also said that such a cargo plane shot down over move is unlikely at a time when Nicaragua Oct. 5, resulting in the Soviet Union's chief the death of two Americans and priorities are modernizing its the capture of Eugene economy and solving domestic Hasenfus, who subsequently social problems. was released. 
In another development, a One well-placed administra­private American source in the tion source confirmed that the Contra aid network, declining three officials managed the to be named publicly, told The arms flow to the rebels during Associated Press that Elliott the time when Congress had Abrams, assistant secretary of banned military aid. Another state for inter-American af­knowledgeable administration fairs, along with North and a official said Abrams partici­CIA officer in charge of the pated in decisions about the Nicarguan rebels, comprised "private" aid network, but "a triad" who made all key North handled the operation's 
Indoor Soccer Sign-up Sat., Jan. 17, Noon-4 p.m. South Bend Turness­
lronwood at the Ton Rd. 
* 
8 game session starting Jan. 30 

* 
Women -Fridays, 7 pm-12 am 

* 
Men -Saturdays, 7 pm-12 am and weeknights at 11 :30 pm 

* 
$50 deposit required per 15 member team (total fee -$350 per team) Call277-0851 for more information 


(3-5 pm) Indiana's First Built Indoor Soccer Arena 

details, including what to do because the question now is not after the resupply opertion was should we support the resis­exposed Oct. 5, when Hasenfus' tance (in Nicaragua), but it is cargo plane was shot down over should we abandon the resis­Nicaragua. tance," he said. "I think a 
Abrams did not respond to majority of both houses will repeated requests for comment want to give the resistance a this week. CIA spokeswoman chance to prove itself." Kathy Pherson said the agency As Vance was appearing had complied with congres­before the Senate panel, a sional restrictions, but she spokeswoman for his onetime would not discuss the CIA offi­boss, former President Jimmy 
cer's activities. North has Carter, said Carter had agreed refused to talk with the press to meet with members of a and has invoked his Fifth board named by President Amendment protection against Reagan to investigate how the self-incrimination before National Security Council Congress. carried out the Iran-Contra 
After appearing Wednesday policy. at a closed session of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Melissa Montgomery, the Abrams told reporters he is op-spokeswoman, said in Atlanta timistic that congressional at-that Carter had received an in­tempts to suspend $40 million vitation and would meet with remaining in the Contra the commission members. But pipeline will fail. she said the time and the place 
"I'm really very optimistic were still being discussed. 
~---------------------1
l~ashion Show Speciai 1 




-====,==1====-1
An unprecede~ed presentation featu~ 
Female and Male Model Tryouts: Tues., Jan. 20, 6:00 pm Washington Hall 
Female and Male Final Cuts: Thurs., Jan. 22, 6:00 pm 
Applications can be picked up at I 03 Walsh I beginning Fri., Jan. 16, and returned by 1 Sun., Jan. 18 all day. Questions call: 2695, 
I__:::=:_~~ :.s~---------..-J 
Hotel 
continued/rom page I 
lobby and sent dense smoke through the next four floors. Guests and staff raced to the roof to await rescue by helicop­ter or jumped from balconies to escape the heat and smoke. More than 140 people were in­jured. 
Escudero Aponte faces 99 years for each murder charge and 25 years for the remaining counts if convicted. U.S. dis­trict Court Judge Justo ArenaE said Jimenez Rivera, if con­victed, faces a maximum sen­tence of life in prison. 
The judge ordered Jimenez Rivera held without bail and set a preliminary hearing for Jan. 20. The day before, bail was set at $2 million for Es­cudero Aponte. 
The affidavit accompanying the complaint filed against Jimenez Rivera said "one or more" cans of Sterno were placed or thrown on a 6-foot­high stack of new furniture placed the day before along the east wall of the ballroom. 
A federal complaint filed Tuesday said Escudero Aponte, a father of two who worked at the hotel for 10 years, confessed his role in the blaze, but said he only intended to set a small fire. 
Jerry Rudden, spokesman of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, indi­cated that authorities assumed a conspiracy. 
LlnLE CAESARS®ASKS: HOW MUCH MORE HAVE YOU BEEN PAYING FOR "FREE" DELIVERY? 
Sure, that other place may advertise "free" delivery. But when you're paying so much more for the pizza, "free" delivery can be pretty expensive. Come to Little Caesars~ where you always get two delicious pizzas at one low price. 

---VAI.UAILE COI.oH ----;,
Four Large piDal1
Pbzas · I 
$6.30 
plustax I
with cheese & 2 items and TWO 32 oz. soft drinks 
$19.9 5 
plus tax Small Size Pizzas with I 
Extra ltenu and extra cheese avallab~ at addltwnal Extr~~m~~S!tra~ !~~!!t(a~Lnal I 
ccot. VaUd wltb coupon at participating Little Caesars. cost. Valid wltb coupon at participating Little Caesars. I 


®5~~®~~~~ 
----VAI.UAILE COI.oH ----~----VAI.UAILE COI.oH ----::.1
1349 Portage Avenue 0 1986 Utile caesar Enterprises, Inc. 
(Next to Martin's) 
233-3200 

~~~~ 
~ When you make pizza this good, one just isn't enough!" 

A GlOBAL UNIVERSITY 

EDUCATION FOR THE 
REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International business, development, eco­nomics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Studies and the Middle East. 
Dual degree programs in in­ternational business (MBA­MA) and urban and regionalplanning (MURP-MA). 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply by February 1. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF INTERNmONAL STIJDIES UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4303 

The Observer Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 5 

Dean of engineering to be ND associate provost and VP 
Special to The Observer 
Roger Schmitz, McCloskey Dean at Notre Dame's College of Engineering has agreed to serve as vice president and as­sociate provost of the Univer­sity. 
The announcement was made by Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathema­tics and University provost. It has the approval of the chair­man and vice chairman of the University's Board of Trus­tees, Donald Keough and Andrew McKenna, and will be formally affirmed at the next meeting of the Board. 
O'Meara also announced the appointment of Father Oliver Williams, associate professor of management, to be an asso­ciate provost. 
O'Meara, who as provost is the second-ranking University officer, also announced that Sister John Miriam Jones and Isabel Charles are being promoted from assistant provost to associate provost. 
Schmitz joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1979 as Keating-Crawford professor of 

, 
~· 
$~~ ~ 



KAPLANf 
')TANLf Y H KAI't AN EDUCATIONAL CINTER LTD 
DON'T COMPETE WITH A KAPlAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7 Phone 219/272-413~ 
GAfAT NCLEX·RN 
chemical engineering and one of his responsibilities in his chairman of that department. new position. A member of the National A Guggenheim Fellow in Academy of Engineering, he 1968-69, Schmitz won the Allan was appointed dean of the Col-P. Colburn Award of the Amer­lege of Engineering in June ican Institute of Chemical En­1981. gineering the following year for 
Before coming to Notre his publications in the Dame he had been a member dynamics and control of chemi­of the University of Illinois fac-cally reacting systems. ulty since 1962. In 1977 he received the Amer-
Schmitz has also been ser-ican Society for Engineering ving as special assistant to the Education's George Westing­provost for computing, and the house Award for excellence coordination and development and innovation in teaching. In of campus-wide computing and 1981 he received the R.H. Wil­information technolgies will be helm Award from the Ameri-
ENCOUNTER WITH CHIU!T 
A three day retreat experience directed by Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff. This experience will help you better 
understand that: 
1) Faith and religion involve the total person and every aspect of our life. 
2) Each person is loveable for who they are. 
3) Community and our experience of it is crucial to our integration of faith. 
4) Faith leads us to action. 
Join us if you are interested in exploring these ideas. WHEN: Feb. 6 (1 p.m.) -Feb. 8 (5 p.m.) 
WHERE: UndenlWod Retreat Center, Donalson IN 
(University Ministry will provide transportation.) 
SIGN UP: Pick up applications starting Jan. 13, 1987 University Ministry OffiCe -Badin Hall 
APPLICATION DUE: Jan. iJ, 87 
FURTHER INFO: contact Sr. Jo or Brother B. 
at University Ministry 239-5242 
OFFICE OF 
UNIVERSITY MINISTRY -NDE-NDE -NDE -NDE-NDE-NDE-
Universlfy of Notre Dom.e Notre Dame, 1N 46556 

l•t>o.r,C<.uC<.>U~W219•23965:16 \)Ill<> h~l 219oJJ9 ~;·; 
"Ifever there was a company that made all the right moves in a tough market, Inland Steel is it." 
FORBES December 30, 1985 
" ... an oasis of individualism and innovative 
BARRONS

thinking." 
October 13, 1986 
We invite you to stop by, meet us, and talk about opportunities in Sales and Marketing. 
UPPER LOUNGE, UNIVERSITY CLUB Janury 15, 1987 6:00p.m. -8:00p.m. Presentation at 6:30-Refreshments will be served 
MBA's and all graduating seniors are welcome 

0 Inland Steel 
can Institute of Chemical En­gineers for his contributions to the study of chemical reaction engineering. 
He will move part of his re­search, much of it done on com­puter simulation, to the Main Building when he himself moves into the Provost's Office at the beginning of the spring semester. 
Williams received a B.S. in chemical engineering from Notre Dame in 1961 and a 
M. Th. in 1969. He was ordained in 1970. 
His Ph.D. was received from Vanderbilt University Divinity School in 1974, and he did re­search in Stanford University's Graduate School of Business in 1980-81. A specialist in business ethics, he joined the Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
He has written or edited six books, including "The Apar­theid Crisis," published this year, and the soon-to-be­published "Capitalism and the Common Good." His research and teaching will continue. 
Jones, who holds a faculty ap­pointment in the Department of . Biological Sciences, has worked in the Provost's Office since 1972. She holds an M.S. in biology and Ph.D. in microbiol­ogy from Notre Dame. Herre­search area is immunology. 
Charles has served as assis­tant provost and director of foreign study programs since 1982. She holds master's and doctor's degrees in English from Notre Dame and was the first woman dean at the Uni­versity, serving as dean of Arts and Letters from 1976 to 1981. 
Charles is also a specialist in the writings of Willa Cather. 


RedM&Ms have returned 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Red M&Ms, banished 11 years ago because of misplaced concern over food dyes, are once again taking their rightful place among the tan, brown, yellow, orange and green. 
The return of the red candies that melt in your mouth but not in your hand was prompted by a national outcry that included thousands of letters to the man­ufacturer and the formation of college campus societies, a spokesman for the Hackettstown-based M&M-Mars said Wednesday. 
Afew stores already have the red ones in stock now, but most won't carry them until February. 

Fatal 
continued from page 1 
mates said Cogswell was walking with two friends when he was hit. The three were re­turning from a party at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse, he said. 
Cogswell, who suffered mas­sive head injuries in the acci­dent, died at St. Joseph's Medi­cal Center 10 hours after being struck, according to police reports. 
The driver of the car was ar­rested after submitting to two blood-alcohol tests, said Cor­poral Mary Potter of the St. Joseph County Police Depart­ment. 



"ie~~_O_i_D__t_____________T~hurs~day,-Janu~ary1~5,198~7-p~age6 
Tacking high price on food elevates its status 
P.O.BoxQ 
Thumbing through a restaurant guide over break to find out what "the" restaurant to go to on New Year's Eve in St. Louis is, and thinking about my assortment of dining experiences, I came to an eye-opening realization. We all eat food (no, that is not my great discovery), you know: the stuff that falls into the four food groups we learned about in first grade. Sure, it's the stuff we shovel into our bodies every day ...yes, even those lukewarm coag­ulated molecules at the dining halls technically fall into the food category. And that's all when it comes to food, right? Wrong. 
Carol Brown 
on second thought 
Tnere is adually another category of consumable munchies on which a cer­tain set of humans thrive (hold on: this is my eye-opening realization). I call this separate category of food "wealth­status" food. These sought-after mor­sels can be recognized by their pseudo­nyms or euphemistic names. They don't fall into the four food groups. They are designated on menus and recipe books under words like "delectables," "edibles," and "palate pleasers." The closest food related categories under which they can be found are "entree"or "appetizer." These "delectables" are enjoyed (or should I say "relished"?) by the well-to-do, comfortable jet-set (or should I say desperately rich per­sonages?) of the world, people of "discriminating" taste, so to speak. 
So, what requirements must a mere munchie meet before it can become a "gourmet dining experience"? Well, most important is the price. It must be expensive, the more outrageous the price the better. Next, it must be some­thing impossible to pronounce simply by the way it looks, Just try ordering filet mignon in a restaurant by pronouncing it the way it looks like it should sound, and check out the waiter's (or your date's) response. Not too smooth. And last, more often than not this edible foodstuff is something that the average man (or beast) would not eat except under threat of a nation­wide lima bean takeover in the produce sections of our supermarkets. 
OK. Assuming this consumable meets all of the above requirements, what happens when food actually graduates from being your basic chow to becoming a heavenly vision, sur­rounded by real silver silverware in front of a young Rockefeller at that fa­mous restaurant in New York or Paris where they trick people by serving Fol­ger's crystals? Goose-liver becomes pate (much like the ugly duckling be­coming the swan), ice cream changes 
to sorbet (special freezing process?), 
slimy snails floundering in garlic butter 
become escargot, and last but certainly 
least, squishy little fish eggs scraped 
off the side of some kid's green-water 
aquarium miraculously gain fame on 
Dynasty as Alexis' caviar. 
But wait. It gets worse. Not only are 
these "wealth-status" foods savored, 
relished, and mispronounced more 
than normal chow, they are critiqued 
and reviewed by connoisseurs, another 
beautiful euphemism for what I would 
simply label "smart people who found 
a way to eat free gourmet food for a 
living" or "people paid to be picky." 
We look to these connoisseurs to tell us what is good taste. And we believe them. And, if we discover that someth­ing which the critics call simply scrumptious is positively repulsive to us, we naturally conclude that the food is in fact gross (not to mention yuck) and the connoisseur has bad taste, right? Wrong again. We don't criticize the critics. We take it out on our taste buds. We say they haven't "matured" and we must "develop a taste" for this simply scrumptious, despicable mor­sel. 
If that's not marketing magic on the part of the distributors of these "wealth-status" foods, then I don't know what is. They actually found a way to get us to buy, even want to buy, an expensive product that we hate just by getting some stuffy looking guy with a big nose (sniffing all those fine wines) to tell us we should like it. We will even go so far as to learn to like it. In­credible. Or possibly inedible. 
So, the moral of the story (if you are still looking for something to do with your life) is: open up a restaurant, give it European name (preferrably French or Italian), serve very small portions of food people really don't like (unless they have already "developed" a taste for it), call it something foreign which even a foreigner couldn't pronounce, and tack an unreasonably high price tag onto it. Then, all you have to do is get some guy with an English accent and a condescending, nonchalant air about him to write a review about what rare and treasured delectables your restaurant serves. You will definitely be set for life. 
And remember: the next time you are tempted to ask a connoisseur some­thing along the lines of "What's your beef?", he might be more responsive if you rephrase your query to "What's your chateaubriand? '' 
Bon appetit! 
Carol Brown is a junior American Studies major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Hall residents were not considered in decision 
Dear Editor: 
There are some questions to be raised about the future of Howard Hall. The administration (namely the Vice Pres­ident of Student Affairs, Father Tyson) has handled the whole issue with less than adequate consideration for the residents and staff of Howard. On Dec. 8, Howard Hesidents received notice that the hall would be converted to a women's dorm for the fall of 1987. The letter's timely arrival allows until Jan. 23 for Howard residents to request on­campus housing next year. Why did the administration wait so long to make this large announcement? Tyson's let­ter says the plans have been in the making for a year; why did the admin­istration wait until most off-campus housing for next year has been 
decided? (So we won't leave the campus nest for the freedom of off campus?) Why did they wait until the week before finals? (So we won't have time to complain?) Also outlined was the plan for future changes to Holy Cross and Carroll Hall in 1988 and 1989, respectively. The administration has seen fit to provide these dorms with what would seem to be a sufficient amount of time for those concerned to make arrangements. Why didn't Howard get the same consideration? 
Tyson mentions that construction of the two new women's dorms is to begin in the spring. The cause of the new con­struction is a plan to increase female population on campus. Why does the plan contain provisions to cut out a male dorm? Since they plan to build the two new women's dorms why don't they just make them larger? This would seem a better idea than renovat­ing Howard. Or were the original renovations made to entice upperclass women into Howard? In any case, is the plan so important that Howard resi­dents should not receive a comfortable amount of time to make plans for the next year? 
The next issue is the way they chose to announce the end of Howard. The administration sent an impersonal form letter to all the students. Instead of this cruel and heart-rending method couldn't they have all called a hall meeting to inform the residents? 
Some decisions have yet to be made concerning the fate of Howard's resi­dents. Tyson's letter says: "A lottery, by class, will be held to place Howard residents in other halls based upon re­quest and availability." Instead of this method could Howard government be provided with a list of slots open in other halls and let us hold our own lottery for "Hall Picks"? 
This would allow the students to ac-
Garry Trudeau 
General Board 


Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ........................Christopher Murphy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski space Is avallabil3 to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
tually choose their hall and be with their friends. Or maybe total sections of other halls could be reserved with ex-Howard seniors as the R.A.'s. The 
R.A. situation itself is a problem. Will Howard residents be afforded the same opportunities to become R.A.s as they would have been? 
Notre Dame has just cut the heart out of over 100 family members. The administration and Tyson have chosen what he says is: "The least disruptive to the whole campus." Has the individ­ual been forgotten? I expected to grow and to learn about the real world at Notre Dame. I never expected to suffer a heartless eviction at the hands of a Catholic institution. Is the new program so necessary that the concerns for fam­ily, community and individual consid­eration were dismissed? 
Michael D. O'Leary Howard Hall 
Quote of the day 
"This is the time to remember 'cause it will not last forever; These are the days to hold on to." 
Billy Joel "This is the Time" 1986 
Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 




Accent 
Faith, and 
friendship
•
ffiUSIC 
Encounter chases spiritual doldrums 
LISA COLEMAN features writer 
Over October break I 0 mem­
of the Notre Dame Retreat participated in an nter with Christ, a retreat the Office of Univer­Ministry plans to bring to Dame starting in February. This retreat originated in N.Y., as a group study n adult Christianity. The pro­was then moved to Rich-and, Va., where the Diocese of has sponsored it lly for the past 16 years. ter with Christ was de­
• .,;;nn,<>t1 as a three-day intensive p experience for college stu­
The format includes a se­ries of speakers who discuss relationships with the self, other people and God. There are peri­ods for reflection and discussion after the speakers and many op­portunities to attend Mass and prayer services. 
"The weekend is directed by a team of college students, lay men and women and priests working to provide an atmo­sphere of support, acceptance and religious conviction." accor­ding to Sister Joe Girrante of Campus Ministry. She described the retreat as "an attempt to demonstrate that religion and faith involves the total person and every aspect of their lives." 
Brother Bonaventure Scully and other staff members from University Ministry feel the retreat services that have been offered at Notre Dame in recent years were too limited. In the past, retreats have been spon­sored by residence halls or by University Ministry, yet they realize there is a serious need for campus-wide religious expe­riences. Several student prayer groups and religious organiza­tions have cropped up on and off campus affirming that stu­dents are in need of opportuni­ties for spiritual growth. 
After researching seven other programs, the staff from Campus Ministry decided that the Encounter with Christ pro­gram was best suited to meet the need of the Notre Dame stu­dents. Girrante said she feels that this retreat is advantageous because the students, faculty and staff work together as a team whether they are organizing or participating in the program. 
Lee Walsh attended the retreat in Virginia and will be one of the many student student speakers for Notre Dame's program. He finds this retreat unique because "there is a built in support net­work that remains intact once the retreat is over." People who have participated in the Encounter with Christ experience can con­tact one another or get together as a group again to continue their growth in Christ with en­couragement and support. 
The students who went to Vir­ginia said they er\ioyed a totally new experience in their faith. For some it was a way of defining and getting in touch with the self. "For me this was the catalyst that opened my mind to overcome these barriers and reach new horizons within myself." "It was a personal journey of confront­ing myself with deep-seated weaknesses." Others said they felt that the retreat helped bring God back into their lives. The weekend "forced me to bring God to the central focus of my life and examine my relationship with Him." "He is out there-now, tommorrow, next week. when I win, when I lose, when I cry, when I laugh." 
One of the most important fea­tures of this program is the com­position of the staff. Each retreat is planned and executed by stu­dents and faculty as well as Campus Ministry personnel and members of the religious com­munity. Allowing students the chance to give some of the main speeches not only gives the au­dience a speaker they can Iden­tify with, it enables the students to develop leadership capabili­ties and assume responsibility for meeting the needs of others. 
Faculty members will also be among the speakers and partici­pants. This will provide a setting for students and teachers to in­teract outside the classroom. Ac­cording to Scully, there are no specific requirements for stu­dent staff members, but they will be choosen by personnel from University Ministry in order to as­sure that they have been religi­ously active at Notre Dame in the past and that they are able to assume leadership. 
The first program to be held at Notre Dame will take place the weekend of February 6 through 
8. During this weekend approxi­mately 22 to 25 students and fac­ulty from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will attend the three-day, two-night experience. Judging from the reactions of past parti­cipants, the Encounter should prove to be an awakening expe­rience. 

Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 7 

Steve Kramps (right) shares part of himself. 


Tired of the old routine? Join 

The Accent department is accepting applications for: 
• 
Features Copy Editor 

• 
Scene Photo Editor 


(No photography experience necessary) 
For Information contact MaryJacoby at The Observer (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 
-
-
..----~-------------------------------------~­
The Observer 


Sports Briefs 
Deb Laverie, Saint Mary's tennis coach, has been named NAIA District 21 Coach of the Year, and the Belles' Jen­nifer Block and Kate McDevitt were selected for all­District honors for the 1986 fall season. Laverie guided the team to a 14-3 record and a second-place finish in the District 21 tournament in her first season as coach. Block, a freshman from Kalamazoo, Mich., was the number-one singles player for the Belles, and she and McDevitt, a junior from Bayside, Wis., were chosen all-District at number-three doubles. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts boxing workouts start today at 4: 15 in the boxing room in the north dome of the ACC. Beginners are welcome to participate in the Bengal Bouts, which begin in seven weeks. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Club will hold its first class and informational meeting for the spring session Monday, Jan. 19, at 7 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. New members are
-welcome. For more information contact Greg Barron at 3618. -The Observer 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
homa. But they failed to score 
the rest of the way, including 
nine missed free throws, and 
lost, 57-54. 
Against Montana in the con­
solation game, Notre Dame 
came back from a 15-point def­
icit but fell just short, as 
Garske's last-second jumper 
rimmed out and the Lady Griz­
zlies held on to a 50-48 win. 
More of the same was in store 
against UCLA. 
The Irish trailed the Bruins 
by 22 points late in the first half, 
but aggressive defense held the 
hosts to only five field goals in 
the second half as Notre Dame 
narrowed the gap. The lead 
belonged to the Irish at 59-57 
with just more than a minute 
to play, but a pair of costly 
turnovers enabled the Bruins to 
tie it at the buzzer. 
UCLA held a slim lead through the overtime period, and won by a 67-65 score when Mary Gavin's shot at the buz­zer was off the mark. 
In the win over Loyola Marymount, no one played more than 21 minutes for Notre Dame. 
At one point over break, the trip to the west coast actually looked rather promising. 
The Irish opened up a seven-point edge against Loyola (Ill.) in the first half of a contest just prior to final exams on this campus, but the Ramblers fought back and turned the game into a see-saw battle the rest of the way. 
With 1: llleft in the game and Loyola ahead by a 62-60 score, Sandy Botham hit a pair of clutch free throws to tie it up. Garske then put the Irish on top with a 12-foot jumper from the wing with 36 seconds remain­ing. A late free throw by Bot­ham made the final 65-62, and the Irish were in the win 
column  on  the  season  with  a  
record of 1-4.  
Sophomore  Heidi  Bunek  

scored 18 to lead all scorers and also pulled down 14 rebounds. 
The Irish looked impressive in their last game before heading west, with a 62-41 vic­tory over St. Ambrose. Botham dumped in 18 for Notre Dame while Kathy Brommeland added 12. 
IRISH ITEMS --Freshman forward Annie Schwartz turned in her top performance of the season against UCLA, scoring 17 points. She has been seeing plenty of time as a starter of late ... Incidentally, two of Notre Dame's three wins this season have been against teams named Loyola. The Notre Dame athletic depart­ment might want to keep this in mind for future scheduling. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObMrY•r Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES  WANTED  FOR SALE HEWLETT PACKARD 9125 DISC DRIVE NEW $1200 HEWLETI PACKARD GRAPHIC PRINTER DIS­ Need GAs torN. Carolina and Duke. Call Bill,2008 ................................................................  Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Polen· tial to make $6tlr. Call Cindy at 1-8()(). 592·2121 .  THANK YOU ST.JUDEI  
PLAYS BAR,PIE,ECT CHARTS IN SIX  The GIGGLE SQUAD. 1113117  
....  WORDPROCESSING 277-8131  Campus travel representative needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, tree travel. and outstanding marketing experience. Cslllnter·Campus Programs at 1-800-433-n47 tor details  COLORS NEW $2000. ALSO WYSE TERMINAL & SCREEN $250 ALL BRAND NEW FOR $2250. Is ~ True You Can Buy Jeeps tor $44  ( PERSONALS INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: A step-by-step guide to Greencard from  Any residents of the city of ChiCBgo who wish to register tor the upcoming mayoral election or have absentee ballots sent to them please call Kim 272-9381. John x3558 or Colleen 284-5446  "Fetch me a bucket" THANKS FOR A GREAT BIRTHDAY, CATHY II  
- EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233·7009. Wanted-walt staff and bus help tor days and nights. Apply In person at Eddie's Restaurant 1345 N. Ironwood 232-5861 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 DOES your club need a T ·Shirt design? How about T ·lhirta or other imprinted apo-7 Call John £1622 AMDOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciar>tJaychologlst) who deeply wiah to adopt a newbOrn. We'd be aenaitlve to a chikfs needs and can provide a wann 1ov11111 home where a child witt ftourl8h. Expencee paid. Legal. Confidential Call Ellie and Alen collect  and Information mailer. TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED Earn HIGH COMMISSION and FREE TRIPS I Destination Travel Is looking tor individ­uals or organizations to market Spring Break trips to South Padre Island. Call Stave at 1-11()().525-1838. SPRING BREAK JAMAtl:A Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237-2061 FOR SALE EPSON GENEVA LAP COMPUTER Word Processing, Spreadsheet and Basic Software Programs S150. Call  through the U.S. government? Get the facts todayl Get the facts todayl Call 1­312-7421-1142. Macintosh wl<eyboard. macwrii&Palnt.and mouse ·$900. £3268 Steve. ................................................................ TICKETS NEED 4 WEST VIRGINIA TIO.:KETS The kln ia a-oomin' in from Wild, Won· dertul West Virginia and I gots Ia have 4 tickets when thay gila here. CaU Max at x1384 It you have 2 or 4 GA's. Need stud. or Ga's b-ball tickets tor West Va. call x2286  F/JH Visas. For details. send refundable $1 (p&h): Immigration Publications, P.O. Box 515991, Dept. 135, Dallas, TX 75251. Dh, Lord, not again ...................... Profe880r Weigert: Thank you for the note. Thet was very considerate of you. Hope everyone will continue to enjoy the papers. Mark Potter, Circulation Manager MARTA, I'm still waning ... TONIGHTII Party with THE BOTIOM LINE at Lee's BBQI 50 cent drafts II WELCOME BACK PARTY II LIANCE YOUR FACE OFF WITH "THE BOTIOM LINE" LEE,BAR-B·OUE THURSDAY JAN 15 WELCOME BACK PARTY $2.00 TO GET IN 50 CENT  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. Oh Lord.. Dumbeol answer ever heard in a Trivial Pursuit game. "Mark Twain" "MR BIG"·Todd Brinker has been 21 yrs old tor one whole day and he is still alive. Happy Birthday to our favorite apparition tor a roommate. Rob. George. Greg THI!LAW rocks CHIPS Fri & Sat night  RIGHT TO LIFE MARCH IN WASHING· TON Is THURSDAY, JANUARY 22. For those interested in going. a MANDA· TORY meeting will be held In the base· ment of LaFortune at 7:30. Thursday (TONIGHTII) . For reservations or questions call Krts 284-2550 or Theresa 283-4096 NO LATER THAN TONIGHT The trip Is open to any Interested persons -faculty, student or community and the cost ia $50.00 SMEO.DOG LABOE.....................-... So You Thought You Could Hide it... WELL WE KNOW, WE KNOW ... Shall we share It?? hmm...  
(212) 724-7942.  Florian Bales 800-582-o429.  NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551  DRAFTS  


AP Photo 
The U.S. boat Stars & Stripes has taken a 2-0 lead in the finals of the challenger series for the America's Cup over the New Zealand boat 
~-­
College roundup 


Tar Heels down Virginia, 95-80 
Associated Press Auburn 66, Tenn. 56 and Doug Lee had 13 of his 19 
points in the first half. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.­AUBURN, Ala. -Junior cen­"Purdue deserves a lot of 
Senior guard Kenny Smith led ter Jeff White scored 14 points, credit. They applied excellent 
four North Carolina players in including the go-ahead basket, defensive pressure that caused 
double figures with 19 points as while the Tigers outscored the us a lot of critical turnovers" 
the No. 3 Tar Heels posted a Volunteers 12-0 down the said Haskins, who saw his team 
95-80 victory over Virginia in stretch Wednesday night as give the ball up 27 times. "We 
Atlantic Coast Conference bas­lOth-ranked Auburn beat Ten­tried to start in a 2-2-1 defense 
ketball Wednesday night. nessee 66-56 in a Southeastern and not let (Everette) Stephens 
North Carolina, winning its Conference college basketball penetrate us, but they had too 
12th straight game, moved to game. many guns coming at us." 
14-1 overall and 3-0 in the ACC. Moore's basket with 2:58 The Boilermakers, 13-1, won 
The victory avenged an 86-73 remaining gave Auburn, which their sixth consecutive game,Virginia win here last year had trailed by two at halftime, matching the school's best over the Tar Heels, who had the lead for good. Auburn im­start since the 1937-38 season. entered that game 21-0 and proved to 10-2 overall and 3-1 Purdue is 5-0 in conference ranked No. 1 in the nation. in the conference, while Ten­play, its best start in the Big 
Virginia, getting a game­nessee fell to 8-5 and 2-2. Ten since 1973-74. 
high 21 points from Andrew Tennessee guard Tony Pu~ue scored the game's Kennedy, dropped to 9-4 and 1-2 White, who led the Volunteers first eight points and was never in the ACC. with 16 points, suffered a leg caught, taking command with injury in the second half and a 19-4 spurt late in the first half. Iowa 91, Illinois 88 was forced to sit out more than "I like the way we started by four minutes, but the senior getting out to an 8-0 lead. At CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -B.J. returned for the final minutes. the beginning of the year I took Armstrong hit a 15-footer with over coaching our blockout and 20 seconds left as No. 2 Iowa Purdue 86, Minn. 59 they got four or five putbacks. overcame a 22-point second­That got them right back in the 
half deficit to defeat No. 8 Illi­WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -It game, so maybe I should nois 91-88 in overtime in a Big was teacher against pupil Wed­change that," Keady said. Ten Conference basketball nesday as Purdue coach Gene With defending national game. Keady saw his charges give an champion Louisville coming to 
Iowa, 16-0 overall and 4-0 in impressive lesson to Minnesota town Sunday, followed by No. the conference, was led by cen­coach Clem Haskins, his 2 Iowa on Monday the Purdue ter Brad Lohaus, who scored former assistant at Western coach was pleased he didn't 23 points, and Armstrong, a Kentucky. have to use his regulars the full guard who had 14. Keady was able to rest his game. 
Leading scorers for Illinois, regulars early as No.6 Purdue "I thought our bench played 12-3 and 4-1, were guard Tony routed Minnesota 86-59 with really well. It enabled us to Wysinger, who had a career­Jeff Arnold, starting in place of hold out Melvin to get ready for high 34 points and forward Ken injured Melvin McCants, Iowa. He could have played if Norman, who had 23. scored a career-high 13 points he was needed," he said. 
The Observer 
Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 9 
--' 
we create. In Friday's game, the Irish to 5-9 on the season, and there regularity is questionable, but "Another big factor in this se­outshot the Bisons 46-28. Matt is no relief in sight as the Army with an excellent effort I don't 
ries was the unusually large Hanzel, Lance Patten, Tim Cadets roll into town this see why we can't beat this number of defensive break­Kuehl, and Tom Mooney did the weekend for two games. Smith team." continuedfrom page 12 downs that we had. Our entire scoring for the Irish, and the is aware of Army's strength Pneumonia will probably 
defensive unit needs improve­game was closer than the final and feels a great effort will be prevent senior Rich Sobilo Once again, we outshot our op­ment, right down to the goal­score indicated. Down 5-4 with needed for the Irish to come up from playing this weekend, and ponents by a considerable mar­tending. It will have to improve about a minute to play, the with two wins. other injuries will sideline gin (102-68 for the series), but if we are to compete with the Irish pulled their goalie in fa­"Certainly, Army is one of sophomore Tom Smith and we don't seem to be able to likes of Army and some of our vor for an extra attacker and the top two or three teams we'll freshman Bruce Guay, but score off of the opportunities other opponents." the Bisons scored two empty see this year," said Smith. Smith remains cautiously opti­
net goals to finish the scoring. "They play and can beat all the mistic. 
---THETHOMAS J. ---On Saturday, Kuehl scored Ivy League teams during the "We can play with anybody twice for Notre Dame as course of their season, and if we just concentrate on Mooney, Bob Bilton and Bob their program is one of scoring when we have the good 
Hockey 
\ V lHITE CENTER 
Herber also tallied. renewed enthusiasm. Right chances and playing solid The losses dropped the Irish now, our ability to score with defense," said Smith.

WFORLAWAND 
though it still lost to Cal Poly, and Poly. 21-20. "Geneser avenged a loss to

GOVERNMENT 


West 
"We didn't wrestle up to our a Poly kid who's ranked sixth continued/rom page 12 abilities in Fullerton. Against in the country, and that was a
Notre Dame Law School 
Poly, we were aggressive and big win for him," said McCann. iuJury that had him sidelined hungry and did compete up to "He just dominated everyone
presents a lecture by 
since November. our ability," said McCann. in California except for the Just two days later, the Irish Geneser stood out as the top Poly match." were again at Cal-State Fuller­performer for the Irish in Cal­The two losses dropped Notre
Rev. Brian Hehir 
ton, but this time they did not ifornia. He won the 167-pound Dame's record in dual meets look nearly as impressive in a category at the Southern Cali­to 1-3. The lack of a 24-18 dual meet loss to the fornia Invitational, and came heavyweight has hurt the Irish Titans. in second place in the voting all season. In every dual meet 
Secretary, 
Department of Social 
for outstanding wrestler of the this year, Notre Dame has had The following day, the team tournament. He then won, his to forfeit six points to the oppo­showed much better form, matches against both Fullerton sition because the Irish do not 
Development 
and World Peace 
have a wrestler to compete in
********************************** the heavyweight class. Each of
* * Notre Dame's losses has been 
United States Catholic 
;* Sophomores Class of '89 ;* by six points or less. 
"If we had a heavyweight,
Conference 
* * we'd be undefeated," said
* * McCann.
on 
* * 
Notre Dame is scheduled to
* *
"The Catholic Church and 
go back on the road tomorrow
* * 
to face Ohio State. Because of
the American Political System: 
* *
** Any sophomore who signed up for the * the recent injuries, McCann
Issues of Principle and Policy" 
planned on calling Buckeye of­
* class ski trip before Christmas break * ficials today to see if he could* *; reschedule the meet for a later
; should turn in the remaining balance to 
date, preferably in February.
Thursday, January 15, 1987 
; the Sophomore class office (2nd floor ; "I'd heard they're really 
publicizing it over there, and I
3:30p.m. 
; Lafortune) no later than Friday, Jan. 16 ; don't want to mess them up," 
said McCann. "but in the con­*a* t 5 00: p.m. ** dition we're in, there's no way we'd have a good representa­
Room 121, The Law School 
t********'***********************~ tion." 



QjGENERAL FOODS 

TALK TO GENERAL FOODS ABOUT A CAREER IN FINANCE 
AS THE PREMIER FOOD AND BEVERAGE COMPANY, GENERAL FOODS RECRUITS STUDENTS WITH DEGREES IN ACCOUNTING, BUSINESS, FINANCE, MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING. 
TALK WITH SOME OF OUR PROFESSIONALS. 
DATE: JANUARY 15, 1987 
TIME: 7:00 P.M. 
PLACE: ALUMNI ROOM MORRIS INN 



RlcbaldPryor 
is in 

A comedy of epidemic proportions. 
PARAMOUNT PICI'URES PRESENTS 
ATED FIELD-ROBERT CORT PRODUCTION CRITICAL CONDITION ~~:BOB LARSON Slo~i DENIS HAMILL &JOHN HAMILL aM AlAN SWYER :~~ Sc"''~iDENIS HAMILL &JOHN HAMILL Produ~ TED FIELD'"' ROBERT CORT :. 7S J 
R  ...._... IIHEIII.OIJIIII&CtiiiPIIflll ,..liT DIAIUlf IUUIIII  ®  ~MICHAEL APTED APARAMOUNT PICTURE CMYIItGKT ©1M1 IT PARAIIIOUtfl PICTURES COfiPOIIAfl)N ALL llliHTS RESERVED  <~"'!:.?. ~  
S'J!AB'.rS eTANUABY 16  
A'J! A 'l!HIJA'J!BIJ NIJAB YOU.  

r-------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
ND 63, Maryland 50 
Notre Dame closed out 1986 in fine fashion as it won its first road game of the season at Col­lege Park on Dec. 31. The Irish jumped to a 28-19nalftime lead and turned on the cr.uise control for the second half. 
In Maryland's defense, the Terrapins were ~laying only their third game 'Of the season as mandated by Maryland Chancellor John· Slaughter in the wake of the Len Bias death. 
Hicks led the Irish with 14 points, while Rivers and Royal each had 13. John Johnson paced the Terps with 15. 
-Dennis Corrigan 
ND 55, C. Mich. 54 
The Irish may have had lin­gering visions of sugar plums in their heads when they returned home from the holidays to face the Chippewas of Central Michigan on Dec. 29. Notre Dame held a 33-25 halftime lead, but the Chip­pewas pulled even with Irish at 43 with 9 : 07 to play. 
.­

Recap 
continuedfrom page 12 
eback from an earlier calf tear 
by pouring in a game-high 21 
points, while Rivers and the 
Irish were able to control 
tempo for much of the contest 
despite Rivers' 2-of-13 shooting 
from the field and 10 points. 
"I'm not upset at all with the 
way we played, just that we 
didn't steal the game at the 
end," said Phelps. "We dic­
tated the game and controlled 
the tempo." 
-Marty Burns 
ND 64, Yale 49 
The backcourt duo of Rivers 
and Scott Hicks combined for 
37 points to lead the Irish over 
Yale, 64-49, on Jan. 4. 
Notre Dame broke open a 30­
28 halftime lead by outscoring 
Yale 24-10 to open the second 
half. Rivers had 12 points, in­
cluding two of his three three­
point field goals in that run and 
Conner, who finished with 12 
points, added six. 
Yale stayed close in the first 
half, with the Irish getting its 
biggest lead at 22-16. The Elis 
tied the game at 28 before 
Hicks made two free throws to 
give Notre Dame the lead for 
good. Chris Dudley led the 
way for the Elis with 18 points 
and six rebounds. Yale shot 
only 39 percent from the field 
compared to 51 percent by the 
Irish. 
-Rick Rietbrock 
ND 71, Penn 67 
Notre Dame came back from 
a six-point deficit at halftime 
to defeat Penn at the Palestra, 
71-67, on Jan. 3. 
The Irish took the game at the free throw line, connecting on 23 of ~ attempts in the second half. Rivers was the big gun with a 14-17 performance from the charity stripe. 
Penn came out quickly in the second half and added to its 30­24 lead. Bruce Lefkowitz scored 11 points as the Quakers stormed to a 54-39lead with just over ten minutes remaining. 
The Irish scored the next eight points, and cut the lead down gradually after that. With 
1:57 remaining, Rivers put the Irish on top at 61-59 with two straight three-pointers that erased a 59-55 deficit. Notre Dame scored its last ten points on free throws, nine of them by Rivers, to hang on. 
Rivers led the Irish scoring with 24 points. Royal added 19 points and nine rebounds, and Hicks contributed 15 points. 
Lefkowitz led the Quakers with 19 points, but fouled out with over five minutes remain­ing. 
-Rick Rietbrock 
Two voted into Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Jim "Catfish" Hunter and Billy Williams, models of consistency whose teams often went in opposite di­rections, were elected Wednes­day night to the baseball Hall of Fame. 
Williams, on the ballot for the sixth time after missing by just four votes last year, swept into the shrine. A line-drive hitter who also had power, he was named on 354 of 413 votes for 
85.7 percent, well-above there­quired 75 percent. 


Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 10 
miting a game-total 31 turn­overs (19 by the Crusaders). 
The game was especially slow in the first half, when the Irish held a 12-8 advantage at the 10 minute mark and a 28-21 haltime lead. The Irish shook off the blahs and Crusaders in the second stanza, putting on a seven-point spurt to dump Valpo. 
Rivers led the Irish with 14 point~ while Hicks and Connor each threw in 13. Scott Anselm led the Crusaders with 16 points, including three three­point shots. 
Valpo head coach Tom Smith summed up the two teams' dis­play when he called it "the 
most  unfulfilled  basketball  
game I have  ever been part  
of."  

-Dennis Corrigan 

NOTRE DAME ACC TUES. FEB. 10-7:30 P.M. 
Tickets '13.50 
On Sale at ACC BOX OFFICE-Gate 10, SEARS (UP Mall & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office), NIGHTWINDS (No. Viii. Mall, 100 Ctr., Niles), JUST FOR THE REC­ORD (T&C Shop. Ctr.), ELKHART TRUTH, SUPERSOUNDS (Elkhart), J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte), MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor). 
~What Catholics I Should Know 




About ... Church 

Regina Coll, Department of7beology 
Sundt~J', Fe!Jmmy 8 ({Jld fitesdt~l', Fe!Jmmy 10 

Prayer 
Pat Gantz, Retreat Ministry .~lmdt~l'. Fefmtm)' 15 t111d lil£{\t/t~l: Fe!Jrumy 17 

Images ofGod 
Catherine taCugna Department of7beology Sul/(lt~l'. Fe!Jmmy 22 mtd /i1£{W/t~l', Felmuo:l' 2-1 

Sacraments 
Andre Leveille, Unzversiiy Minzstry SuJl(/ar. ..lfttrcb 1({J{{//it({W/ttl'. ..1/arcb .) 

Morality 
Monk~oy, Department ofJbrology 
Kegis1ration tonns will be available a1 1 both Offices of University Ministry: 
1 
Memorial Ubrary-239-6536 Badin Hall-239-5242 
SpoMored by the Office of University Ministry 





Toda 

1HIS IS 1/H. 1lii/NK Jl(}(/ 11/.i.. FOR 
Ht'5... 50 Eitt0­COMING (}(ff 1fJ 5€£ M€ 
50 110NIIL ... OFF ON MY .!ffi5510N. 
'1Hf'PT.'< WfTH W!A? f!.!AYeK5, 
I 
I 5HIIU. 1?~1VKN 
5AFaY. 
Y£~11. UNFfJ/lTVNAT[LY, HE ISN T 601N6 10 Al'f'LY AF1'£K ALL -II£ /,IOLDS SOME tt!ORAL 
ftXITION5 11/Af Ht 1l/OU6J11 
WOVLb .T£0f.'4flPIZf 
HIS CJIANCE'S. ­
Campus , 
3:30p.m.: ThomasJ. WhiteCenteronLaw and Government Lecture, "The Catholic Church and the American Politieal Sys­tem: Issues of Principle and Poliicy," by Rev. Brian Hehir, Secretary, Dept. of So­cial Development and World Peace, U.S. Catholic Conference, Washington, D.C. Room 121 Law School 
4:00 p.m.: Radiating Laboratory Semi­nar, "The Indian Happiness Wart and Rose Bengal," by Prof. D.C. Neckers, Dept. of Chemistry. Bowling Green State University. Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory. . 8:00p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies Stu­dent Faculty Evening, "Liberty's Virtue and Virtue's Liberty," by Prof. Walter Nicgorski, ND, Library Lounge. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
London Broil 
Pork Fried Rice 
Cheese & Macaroni 
Polish Sausage with Sauerkraut 
Saint Mary's 
Spaghetti with meat or marinara 
sauce Southern Fried Chicken Cheese Omelette Deli Bar 
-
Gel IN fl€l(f 
I/Nil1Tt ME 1/Pt YOV 111/0T. ............... 

"Chief say, 'Someone ... here ... walk ... through ... buffalo ... field.'" 
ACROSS 1 Smooth 5 Searches thoroughly 
10 Monks 
14 Out of the wind 15 Manifest 16 Catalogue 17 Cartoon bubble 18 San-, Cal. 19 Singer Paul 20 Dorothy Sayers 
creation 23 Kismet 24 Requires 25 Calm 28'Haveris 31 Wading bird 32 Ranee garb 33 Help 36 Saint-Exupery 
creation 40 Fish-eating 
bird 41 Pumps e.g. 42 Br. carbine 43 Implore 
44 Breakfast bread 45 Native-born 
Israeli 48 Baseball no. 50 Eugene O'Neill 
creation 57 One of a 
Lat. trio 58 Having wings 59 Party fare 60 Opp. to hor. 61 Having fuzz 62 Anglo-Saxon 
laborer 63 Whirlpool 64 Nigeria's 
capital 65 Fake 
DOWN 1 Compete for 
America's Cup 2 Actor-Ray 3 --do-well 4 Type of trap 5 Halley's 
for one 6 Egg-shaped 

"'1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
7 Dole 8-Rabbit 9 Stash 
1 0 Sweethearts 11 Washer cycle 12 Requested 13 Corset bones 21 Settle up 22 Between: pref. 25 Comedian 
Johnson 26 Cowardly Lion 
portrayer 27 Legal holding 28 Blanched 29 Miners' quests 30 Agent for 
short 32 Zeno's porch 

33 Broadway org.  
34 Sherbet and  43 Attractive  49 Canasta cards  
sorbet  44-Mahal  51 Lose interest  
35 Fender mishap  45-off  52 Lamb  
37 Muslim faith  (prevent)  53 Pealed  
38 Article  46 Turk. sultan  54 Poet Ogden  
39 Chemical  47 Goatee  55 Sicilian mount  
elements  48-voce  56 Appear  

Women's Care Center I 

Pregnancy Help Center 
• Free Pregnancy Tests 
• FNe Confldentlel. Individual 
2~~~~-_,·, ·&Couple Counseling 
• Free Refenl To Suppon Agencies 
• Confide~ c.. 
• Medical Referral Service 
e
• Post AboniOn Counseling 

234-0363.­
417N. ST. L BLVD. 


-~-------~--­
~--­
Thursday, January 15, 1987-page 12 

Irish improve to 9-3 behind four road wins 
The Notre Dame men's bas­DePaul 59, ND 54 ketball team had a successful CHICAGO -Notre Dame' holiday season, winning four­eight-game winning strea of-five road games and two came to a bitter end Jan. 10, a 
home games. Along the way, unbeaten and seventh-ranke the Irish recorded every kind DePaul held off a late Iris of win imaginable--come-from­rally and escaped with a 59-5 behind, hold-ons, and breezes­win. -and nearly one major upset. The record-setting crowd o Here is a recap of the break 17,623 which jammed th .action. Rosemont Horizon was n 
doubt surprised at the wa -ND 67, Creighton 54 Notre Dame was able to eras 
Gary Voce grabbed 11 a 10-point deficit over the las rebounds and the Irish hit 21 of five minutes to take the lead a 22 free throws to key a 67-54 53-52 with 1:16 to play. Eve victory over Creighton Mon­more surprising was that th day. Irish were even that close on a 
One could tell it was Voce's night when Rivers didn't score Irish forward Mark Stevenson (24) fights his night when the 6-9 center tipped his first point until 5: 56 way past DePaul's Andy Laux (4) last Sunday an offensive rebound high remained in the game. at the Rosemont Horizon in Chicago. Notre above the glass and straight "We were 11-of-22 on free 
into the basket. Voce finished throws and were outreboundedDurso, Geneser injured with 6 points. (38-26). How did we win?" The Irish built a 35-25 asked Blue Demon head coach 
halftime lead thanks to a 10-Joey Meyer after the game. 
point spurt sparked by guard The answer to that question 
Joe Fredrick's two baskets. probably could be found in the By STEVE MEGARGEE "He just woke up with it. He wrestler, Geneser, won his Meanwhile the Blue Jays, who play of DePaul guard Rod Sports Writer doesn't know how it hap­semi-final match. thrive on the three-point play, Strickland, whose 17 points, six 
pened." "We lost four one-point connected on only four of 13 at­assists, and stingy defense on 
Competing in California over Durso hurt his left shoulder matches in the semi-finals. We tempts on the night. Rivers caused problems for winter break, the Notre Dame in practice, and could not raise were in the thick of winning it, Free throw shooting helped Notre Dame. Itwas Strickland, wrestling team challenged its his arm. A doctor will be test­and we just didn't win the close the Irish to preserve the lead in fact, who found a seam in West coast foes, but failed to ing the shoulder today. matches," said McCann. "In the entire second half. The the Irish defense and delivered ever come out on top. Over break, the Irish finished the semi-finals, we didn't open team made 21 straight shots a clutch three-point play that 
Things did not get any better fourth in the fifteen-team up. Our general attitude was to before Donald Royal missed put the Demons up for good at · for the Irish after break, as two Southern California Invita­keep it close and hope to win, with 12 seconds left in the 55-53 with less than a minute to top wrestlers, 134-pound soph­tional on Jan. 4, then lost dual and you can't wrestle like game. But the Irish forward play. A last-second shot at omore Jerry Durso and 167-meets to Cal-State Fullerton that." was nine of 10 from the line and tying the ·game by Notre pound sophomore Chris and Cal Poly later in the week. Other wrestlers making the led the team in scoring with 15. Dame's Sean Connor rimmed Geneser, were injured yester­In the Southern California In­semi-finals for Notre Dame David Rivers added 13 for the out, and the Demon's Stanley day. vitational at Cal-State Fuller­were 118-pound freshman Andy Irish before being forced to Brundy kept the game out of 
Geneser woke up yesterday ton, Notre Dame sent six Radenbaugh, 126-pound sopho­leave the game in the second reach with a slam. with an internal infection in his wrestlers to the tournament more Dave Carlin, 142-pound half with an. ankle injury. Yet even after such a disap­knee. He will be in the infir­semi-finals and appe~red to sophomores Pat Boyd and Though he did not practice with pointing Joss, Irish head coach mary at least until Friday have a legitimate shot at win­Durso, and 158-pound senior the team xesterday, he is ex­Digger Phelps could point to while being treated for cel­ning the tournament champi­Tom Ryan. Carlin's showing pected to be ready for the West several positive aspects of his lulitis. onship, eventually won by Cal­was particularly impressive, Virginia game this Saturday. team'.s play. Royal, for in­
"It's all in his knee, and they State Bakersfield. Notre as he was coming off an elbow The victory improved Notre stance, continued his com-just have to control it," said Dame's title hopes quickly Dame's record to 9-3. Head Coach Fran McCann. ended when only one Irish see WEST, page 9 -Pete Gegen see RECAP, page 10 

ND falls short on West Coast 

Irish lose three of four Irish hockey as Garske quits team drops two 
By MARTY STRASEN Since returning from the trip, 
to N.D. St. 
Assistant Sports Editor the Irish suffered a home 
thrashing, 69-48, at the hands 
By PETE SKIKO
With the luck the Notre Dame of 19th-ranked Maryland and women's basketball team en­an away loss to Northern Illi-. Sports Writer countered over the Christmas nois on Tuesday night, 81-71. 
The Notre Dame hockeyholidays, it's a good thing the Botham continued her scoring team suffered a pair of tightIrish did not plan a stop in Las tear with 28 points against the losses at the hands of NorthVegas on their west-coast stint. Huskies, while Bunek topped Dakota State over ChristmasNot only did the squad drop Notre Dame scorers against break. After more than athree of four on the trip and the Terps with 10. 
month without a game, the1five of eight since Dec. 13, but But despite dropping those Irish dropped the consecutivealso lost hot-shooting freshman two games and losing one of the games by the scores of 7-4guard Julie Garske, who quit team's most promising outside Friday night and 6-5 in over­the team Jan. 8 because she felt shooters since returning from time on Saturday.
her playing time was insuffi­the coast, the Irish were Notre Dame returns to action cient, according to Notre Dame plagued by even worse hear­this weekend for a serieshead coach Mary DiStanislao. taches out west. 
against the Cadets of Army,
The 5-11 native of Amherst, Ifmoving westward was part 
with both games being played Wis., transferred to the Univer­of the American dream, at 'the ACC at 7:30 on Fridaysity of Wisconsin, where she playing basketball there was and Saturday nights. 
will play under the dire'Ction of an Irish nightmare. 
The long layoff duringfirst-year head coach Mary Three of the four games were December and early JanuaryMurphy, a former assistant to decided in the final seconds by took its toll on the Irish, accor­DiStanislao for the Irish. a grand total of seven points, ding to Head Coach LeftyGarske was fourth on the team and Notre Dame came up on Smith.
in scoring with an average of the short end of all three. The '.'We played reasonably well, 6.3 points per game, and lone victory was a 78-40 pound­considering the amount of time carried an average of 17.6 ing of Loyola Marymount. 
we had off before the series,"minutes per contest. In the Seattle Times Classic, said Smith, "but we encoun­Notre Dame is now 3-9 on the the Irish held a 54-50 edge with tered the same old problems,season, and begins play in the 4: 48 to play against 21st-ranked along with some new ones.
North Star Conference with a and previously-unbeaten Okla-Irish forward Donald Royal shoots over DePaul's Dallas Com­

Sunday afternoon game egys in a game last Sunday. The team's action over break is 
see HOCKEY, page 9
against DePaul at the ACC. see IRISH, page 8 detailed in the story at the top of the page. 





