... 
fACCENT: People in crisis 
~~~~da~dcoolwitha30per­
cent chance of showers. High 
VIEWPOINT: Sexist signs at Cava~aug-c..___h_~ L..-..i-nth-elow-er-aos._ 



SMC announces AIDS policy 
By SANDY CERIMELE Campus Ministry, Health Ser­Saint Mary's Editor vices, Athletics and Recrea­tion, Counseling and Career AIDS will be treated like any Development, Student other health problem at Saint Activities, and Residence Life Mary's, according to a letter were some members of the task the College's Office of Student force also comprised of stu­Activities last week. dents, faculty and two standing 
"We developed the policy as committees of the college, said a preventive measure," said Jackowski. Sister Carol Jackowski, dean of According to Jackowski, the Student Affairs. "Before we AIDS policy has been in devel­have to face a person who has opment for more than a year. AIDS, we will know what to do "The policy is modeled after and there will be no fear on the the Surgeon General's policy student's part of being thrown and the policy for pregnant out." Saint Mary's women in that it 
In the same letter, the Col­deals with it strictly as a medi­lege also announced the prob­cal problem," said Jackowski. lem of substance abuse will be She added that counseling is approached through voluntary also available through the col­or involuntary counseling. lege network and that they will 
Jackowski said the AIDS encourage students with policy was the result of a task evidence of the antibodies to force that reviewed letters remain in school. from professional institutions, The policy reads, "If stu­policies of other colleges and dents are unable to pursue their universities, the Indiana com­normal responsibilities at the mission on AIDS, and the Sur­College due to illness, assis­geon General's suggested tance will be provided in ar­policy on AIDS. ranging a medical leave of ab-
The directors of six campus organizations, including see AIDS, page 3 
Key issues yet divide superpowers in arms talks 
Asociated Press intermediate-range nuclear "It's acommitment to eacn in fme print. The rssues are these weaopns and the Soviet 
missiles covered by the agree­other to work our b~cksides off complicated, but technical and Union has about 680 of them. 
WASHINGTON -Despite an ment and on a set of rules to on the details; it is not an solvable." The discussions agreement in principle on a nu­prevent violations of the treaty. agreement to sign any old thing begin in Geneva later this The Soviets want to remove clear arms pact, the United After three days of talks, because there is to be a summit month. the nuclear payloads and the States and the Soviet Union President Reagan announced this fall," said one of several The meat of the agreement guidance systems from all the remain divided on two impor­on Friday that he and Soviet U.S. negotiators who spoke is a pledge by the superpowers missiles within a year of agree­tant provisions and are sending General Secretary Mikhail about the remaining differ­to remove the nuclear war­ment and then proceed at a their experts back to the bar­Gorbachev were committed to ences on condition of heads from all ground­more leisurely pace to destroy gaining table. signing the treaty at a summit anonymity. launched missiles in the 300 the launchers; two years for 
Yet to be resolved are differ­meeting in the United States Another member of the U.S. mile to 3,400 mile range and the shorter-range weapons and ences over the timetable for this year, but that details must team said, "I really think the destroy the launching tubes. five years for the longer-range withdrawal of the still be worked out. remaining issues are the ones The United States has 332 of missiles. 

War paint 

VIce President of Finance Club Joe Jansen prepares fellow Cavanaugh Junior Lou Weber for the battle against Michigan State Saturday. The Finance Club sponsored face painting on the 
Saint Mary's statue destroyed by vandals 
By MIMI TUOHY Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's Security is con­tinuing its investigation of the destruction of a statue of the Virgin Mary located inside Lemans Hall. 
The statue was destroyed at about 2:30a.m. Thursday mor­ning when it was knocked off its pedestal on the first floor of the hall, said Saint Mary's Se­curity Director Richard Chlebek. 
Although there were no wit­nesses to the incident, three wo­men, whom Chlebek believes are Saint Mary's students, were seen by a desk clerk run­ning up the stairs of the hall. 
Chlebek said these women are suspects in the incident, al­though he said he has no clues as to their identity. 
A notice was sent to all Saint Mary's students Friday asking for "any information leading to the identification of the persons responsible for damaging" the statue. 
Information about the suspects should be directed to either Saint Mary's Security or the Residence Life Office. 
Chlebek said attempts will be made to repair the statue al­though it will be "quite expen­sive," he said. 
The statue "Our Lady of the Blue Mantle" has been in the hall since the early 1920s, ac­cording to the notice. 
Saint Mary's yearbook, The Blue Mantle, was dedicated to the statue in 1926, Chlebek said. · 

Analyst: early primaries decisive 
time Defore the actual elec­
By PATRICK O'CONNOR 
News Staff 

Iowa and New Hampshire 
will have a greater influence 
on determining who be­
comes the next president 
than California and New 
York, said noted political 
humorist Mark Shields in a 
packed Hesburgh Library 
Auditorium Friday. 
A 1959 Notre Dame 
graduate, Mark Shields 
spoke on the contemporary 
American political scene, 
highlighting its often 
humorous aspects. 

Although Shields said he foresees no landslide for either party, he maintained that whoever wins the presidential election will have been determined a long tion. 
Almost a full year prior to the election, the New Hampshire and Iowa prima­ries invariably determine who will be the next presi­dent, Shields said. Since 1952, when the first modern primaries began, all nine presidents have been win­ners of their respective New Hampshire primaries. Cali­fornia, with its primary in June, occurs too late in the process to make any differ­ence, Shields said. 
Shields contended that a field of 7 or 8 candidates is too large for the American people and mass media to cope with. "We only under­stand a race with 2 or 3 can­didates," Shields said. As a result, the candidates who win the first pnmaries, namely New Hampshire and Iowa, receive the most at­tention and are considered most seriously by the popu­lation and media, he said. 
Shields said the impor­tance of this factor has in­creased because "for the first in the history of broad­cast journalism, the budgets of news departments at the networks have been cut down." He stressed that "in in order to have a crew and a caniera and a correspon­dant with you by late February of 1988, you had 
best  have  won  the  Iowa  
caucuses  or  the  New  
Hampshire primary.''  

A distinctive feature of the 1988 election will be the lack 
see SPEECH, page 3 

'----------------------------------' 
Monday, September 21, 1987
page 2 The Observer 
Oppone-nts of Bork 


have made an about-face
In Brief The Chevrolet Sprint has captured the top rating in the annual gasoline mileage tests of the Environmental Protection Agency for the third year in the row. There was no change in the second spot, either, held by a Honda Civic. The 1,875-pound Sprint Metro model was rated at 54 miles per gallon in city driving and 58 mpg on the highway, the same figures recorded for the SprintER last year. The Honda Civic CRX hf tested out at 50 mpg city, 56 mpg highway. Of Interest Washington semester information meeting at 4:30 p.m. in 131 Decio. For more information, please contact Dr. Frederick Wright in 345 O'Shaugnessy or 239-5628. -The Observer Future diplomats and debaters are encouraged to come to the Model United Nations Club meeting at 7:30 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland. The meeting will be brief but cru­cial for new members. -The Observer Special Olympics live-in hosts and language services personnel will have a reunion at 8 p.m. at Theodore's. -The Observer Lyons Volleyball Tournament sign-ups will be th1s week in the dining halls. Proceeds of this event will go to the Logan Center. The tournament will take place Oct. 3-4 on Green Field. -The Observer Rock Over London features new music from the latest LP's by Squeeze, Pink Floyd, and Gene Loves Jezebel, as well as Gary Neuman's brand new remix of his '79 hit "Cars.'' All of this, along with the UK's latest rock Top 5, can be heard at midnight on 88.9 WSND-FM. The Observer Abortion will be the topic of a question and answer session with Fr. James Burtchaell, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of Lafortune. A reception will follow. Members of Right to Life, students, and faculty are invited to participate. -The Observer The Model O.A.S. Club will hold an organizational meeting in 116 O'Shaugnessy at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in politics, Latin America, andbr a trip to Washington,D.C. is encouraged to attend. For more information, call Brenda £4054. -The Observer University Counseling Center is sponsoring the first session of Eating Awareness Training tommorrow at 6:30p.m. in room 300 of the Student Health Center. This is the first of three sessions designed for individuals con­cerned about their own eating habits or those of someone they care about. The first session focuses on problem iden­tification and assessment. The speaker will be Nancy Schoeneman, M.A. -The Observer The Notre Dame Investment club will have its first organizational meeting at 7 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. All interested students are invited to attend. -The Obser­ver  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Deaign EditOt" ................. Chris Donnelly Accent Cop11 Editor....... Kathy Scarbeck Deaign Auiatont ............... Usa Tugman Accent Lo11out ............. Katy Kronenberg Lo~out atoff .....................••. Karin Young Buainesa Editor.................. Steve Claeys T11peaettera .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Michael Buc Busineas Lo11out.. .............. Heidi Traxler ........................................... Daniel Cahill T11pists.............. ..... . . . . . . . . . . Karen Vossen Newa Editor......................... Chris Julka ............................................ Jenn ConlQ.n Cop11 EditOt" . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. ...... . . Liz Panzica ND Doll Editor ................ Beth Cornwell Sports Cop11 Editor ............ Brian O'Gara ..............................................Maria Doli Viewpoint Cop!/ EditOt" ..... Brian Conway Photographer..................... Susan Coene Viewpoint Lo11out .............. Heidi Traxler T_'e o..ner (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dUrtlll exam aJ¥1 vacation periods. 'Be O!Mner is published by the students of the University of Notre o.me and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina 'Be Oblener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 'Be Olllenw is a member of 'Be Allodaled Pnu. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  

Many are talking now about what a terrible blow to Western civilization it would be if Robert Bork got appointed to the Supreme Court. 
His opponents in the senate, like Joseph Biden of Delaware, admit Bork is a "brilliant" scholar and say they don't question whether his views accord with the Constitution. What they object to is Bork's ideology, they say. 
Even one of N.D.'s very own pointed out that Bork, being the extreme advocate of judicial restraint he is, fails to recognize that values of equality and justice exceed in importance either the intent of the Constitution's authors or the text of the Constitution itself. Pure majoritarian democracy must always give way to ethics, this Viewpoint writer said. "The Con­stitution in its original form was not completely democratic," she pointed out. 
Bork's opponents say they cannot allow a man to become Supreme Court justice who believes in adhering simply to the Constitution without any attention to ethics. Moral convictions do belong in politics, they assert, and ideology is a basis for legitimate discrimination. Or as Biden puts it, "Let's stop pussyfooting ardund and get down to what Judge Bork believes.'' 
What fascinates me, however, is that the very party currently denoucing Bork for attempting to keep moral convictions out of politics ap­plauded a man who came to Notre Dame three years ago and proposed essentially the same thing. 
"We are a nation of laws--when we like those laws and when we don't," this man said. He said regardless of how appalling some laws may seem to us personally, we must uphold them, for "the price of seeking to force our beliefs on other is that they might some day force theirs on us.'' 
Did another vile advocate of judicial restraint like Judge Bork say this? No, it was Gov. Mario Cuomo. As a New York public official, he said he was obliged to uphold the Constitution's sanc­tion of abortion, even though deep down inside he personally opposed it because he is such a good Catholic. 
Compare this to Bork's philosophy. "I like the freedoms of the individual as well as most and would be appalled by many statutes that I am compelled to think would be constitutional if enacted," says Bork. "But I am also per­suaded that my generally libertarian commit­ments have nothing to do with behavior proper to the Supreme Court." 
What could sound more like Cuomo? Both Cuomo and Bork say the law and Constitution takes precedence over moral convictions and personal values. I am surprised they are not in the same party. Yet, whereas Newsweek, echoed by the rest of the mass media called Cuomo's speech "most thoughtful," and the 1985 Dome lumped Cuomo together with Hes­burgh and called them "men of conviction," some of the very same people now say Bork is a "dangerous threat." 
DRINKNi AND DRIVING 
CAN Kl1. A FRIEND5HII 


My purpose in writing this is not to defend Bork. Actually, I agree with people like Biden even if, as in so many other cases, what he say~ proves not to be original: one should dis­c~imin~te on the basis of ideology; Moral con­Siderations do belong in politics. I just wish people like Biden would follow through with this idea. 
Why stop with the Supreme Court? The offi­cials in the CIA, the Department of the Trea­s.ury! and .the FBI could certainly affect our hvelihood JUSt as much as officials in the courts. I say, let us erect minimum ideological require­ments for all members of all federal agencies so to support all of values of this great nation. 
Y~t why st~p there? Government-sponsored pubhc education affects the course of national life probably just as much as the Supreme Court, and public teachers are as much public servants as Supreme Court justices. I say, every teacher in a public school should meet basic ideological requirements as well. 
In short, let us abandon this silly 19th century pretense that creed should serve as no basis for discrimination and that moral convictions should be kept separate from politics. "Let's stop pussyfooting around," as Joe Biden would put it, and ensure that all our public servants act in accordance with not only the Constitution, but also and above all an appropriate value system. 
Yet how much would you like to bet that if someone were to propose this to those criticiz­ing Bork, they would all suddenly realize that moral convictions have no place in politics after all?" 


Eye Exams

ProfessionalVISion 
large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
An Types of Contacts 


20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N.lronwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  

81 freshmen still in study lounges 
Director of Notre Dame security nex Rakow recently traveled to Colum­bia, South Carolina to aid se­curity for Pope John Paul's visit. 
"It was a tremendous op­portunity and a once in a lifetime experience," said Rakow. 
While the Pope toured and lectured at the University of South Carolina, Rakow said that he remained within physical reach of the Pope to ensure nothing bad would happen. Rakow said secur­ity measures were very tight--even more so than for a political leader simply be­cause of the vast number of people that were present. The Pope's visit attracted phenomenal crowds at the campus stadium with a full capacitiy crowd of 72,000 people. 
"Dignitary protection is very complex," said Rakow. "You do everything you can," he added, "but you don't try to take over the 
BefOreyouchoose a longdistance service,take a close looK. 

You may be thinking about choosing one of the newer carriers over AT&T in order to save money. 
Think again. 
Since January 1987, AT&Ts rates have dropped more than 15% for direct-dialed out-of­state calls. So they're lower than you probably realize. For infor­mation on specific rates, you can call us at 1 800 222-0300. 
And AT&T offers clear long distance connections, operator assistance, 24-hour customer service, and immediate credit for wrong numbers. Plus, you can use AT&T to call from anywhere to anywhere, all over the United States and to over 250 countries. 
You might be surprised at how good a value AT&T really is. So before you choose a long distance company, pick up the phone. 
-




ATs.T 
The right choice. 

By ROBYN SIMMONS 
News staff 
opening," said Reine bold. 
Although having students in study lounges prevents the use of the study areas for others, those who live in the lounges have not been greatly incon­venienced, "The only incon­venience was when we had to move out," said John Carozza, a freshman who moved from Grace to Fisher a week ago. 
"There have been no corn­
plaints to the Housing Office " 
said Reinebold. ' 
"Not enough people are rno.ving off campus," said Remebold, "I think it's becom­ing a trend that more people are staying on campus." Ap­proximately 150 fewer students moved off campus this year than last year. 
continued tram page 1 
sence." 
The substance abuse policy concerns both drug abuse and eating . pisorders: "Students who experiment with or are de­pendent upon drugs can receive help voluntarily or in­voluntarily. The same is true for eating disorders." 
"We include eating disorders because they are an addiction to food," Jackowski said. 
Involuntary referral, accor­ding to the policy, will occur "when a student's behavior has become seriously dirsuptive to the residential community or has resulted in disciplinary ac­tion or criminal activity." 
"It is only in the incident of seriously disruptive or damag­ing behavior that we will con­sider dismissing the student from the college," said Jack­owski. 

Speech 
continued from page 1 
of a majority party and a major 
issue, Shield said. He predicted 
Americans will be looking for 
sincere honesty in a candidate. 
Overall, Shields refused to 
commit himself to any can­
didate or party at this stage of 
the race. He described 
Americans as "philosophically 
conservative but operationally 
liberal,'' and that the candidate 
who best exemplifies the abil­
ity to represent both "a belief 
in change and fundamental 
American optimism," will be 
our next president. 
Shields, who graduated Notre Dame in 1959, has since taught at both Harvard Univer­sity and the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylva­nia, managed political cam­paigns in 38 states and is pres­ently a columnist for "The Washington Post." 
A frequent commentator on television and radio programs, Shields has appeared on "The Phil Donahue Show," "Face the Nation," and last 

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••IThursday, "Nightline." 
Monday, September 21, 1987




'1\t J.P. Morgan~ systems professionals are part business perS()ll~ theoretician~ and technician:' 
As a leading global financial institution,J.P. Morgan is among the most sophisticated users of the most advanced information and communications sys­tems. And as a firm at the forefront of a rapidly changing industry, we are continuously involved in the design and implementation of innovative systems for complex worldwide financial applica­tions. Hyour goal is a career in systems, J.P. Morgan has rewarding opportunities to offer both techni­cal and non-technical majors. They begin with comprehensive classroom and on-the-job instruc­
tion and lead to a choice of  
optiOnS ranging from technical  Information Presentation  
specializations to management.  
Hyou'd like to know more about  
J.P. Morgan, please meet with us  
at the time and place indicated.  
Monday, September 28  
6:00-8:00 PM  
Morris Inn  
Notre Dame Room  




JPMorgan 
---------~-----------------------~ 
Senate panel faults view of ABM treaty 
Associated Press to unilaterally change how a 
treaty is interpreted, although 
WASHINGTON-TheReagan he says he won't make such a 
administration incorrectly change without consulting 
claims it can unilaterally rein-Congress. 
terpret the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Last week, however, the Sen­
Missile Treaty to allow ex-ate split generally along party 
panded U.S. "Star Wars" test-lines as it voted 58-38 to ap­
ing, the Senate Foreign Rela-prove a proposal banning 
tions Committee said Sunday. spending for expanded Star 
The attempt by the Republi-Wars tests that violate the 
can administration to change existing view of the ABM pact. 
the U.S. view of the 15-year-old While releasing the report, 
treaty could affect Senate con-the Foreign Relations Commit­
sideration of a possible treaty tee also sent to the floor a 
on intermediate-range nuclear resolution, sponsored by Sen. 
weapons, the Democratic-Joseph Biden, D-Del., that 
controlled committee said in a rejects the attempt to rein-
106-page report. terpret the ABM pact. 
The report was the latest "This report underscores the 
round in a long-running fight profound constitutional issues 
between President Reagan and which will surround Senate 
congressional Democrats over consideration of an INF 
the 1972 pact, which limits the (intermediate nuclear forces) 
variety and type of defenses agreement if the treaty power 
that each superpower can question is not resolved," 
deploy. Biden said in a statement 
At issue in the battle is de-released with the report. 
velopment of Reagan's Strate-The committee's report 
gic Defense Initiative, known came in the wake of a series of 
informally as "Star Wars." joint hearings it held earlier 
The administration wants to this year with the Senate 
move from the existing inter-Judiciary Committee. 
pretation to a so-called The committee will hold 
"broad" view of the ABM hearings on any new treaty, 
treaty, which would allow ex-probably starting sometime 
panded testing of Star Wars. early in 1988, according to Sen. 
Reagan has asserted that the Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., chair-
executive branch has the right man of the panel. 
• 
Use this coupon at : : COUNTY MARKET e 

• 
to redeem $2.00 off our : 


: 4 or 6 foot giant deli • : submarines : 
: *orders must be :! placed 2 days in ! 
• advance* : 

'····················· 
Ifthey won't tell you about it, then you know it must be great. 
Purple Passion~ Out of the bathtub, into the can, and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself. 
elt•lrw for World w.d. DIIIIIJ.d ProdiiCh Company By S.V.rog• Conc•ph, Sl LOUIS, 1110 63108 15 Proof 
Security Beat 
Wednesday, September 16 
11:40 a.m. A Holy Cross Hall res­ident reported that his wallet was stolen from his unlocked room some­time Sunday evening. The loss was valued at $10.00. 
2:30p.m. A Holy Cross Hall Resi­dent reported that his bookbag was stolen from South Dining Hall. The bookbag and contents were valued at $149.00. 
3:30 p.m. Security investigated a minor traffic accident in the A-15lot. 
3:35p.m. A resident of Lewis Hall reported three textbooks were taken from her backpack while she was at lunch in the South Dining Hall. The books were valued at $50.00. 
3:50 p.m. Security investigated a minor traffic accident in the C-1 Parking Lot. 
5:50p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported that $12.00 was taken from his wallet in his desk while he was out of the room. 
8:45 p.m. Two students were ap­prehended while attempting to cut the padlock off a fire gate at Fatima Retreat Center on St. Mary's Road near Hwy. 3W3. The case was for­warded to the Office of Student Af­fairs. 
11:10 p.m. Security officers recovered two beer kegs in Green Field. 
Thursday, September I 7 
1:00 p.m. An off-campus student reported her backpack containing textbooks taken from South Dining Hall. The loss was valued at $67.00. 
1:26 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his backpack and contents from the So_!lth Dining Hall. Loss totaled $113. 
1:45 
p.m. A resident 01 Mornssey Hall reported that a ticket to the ND vs. MSU football game was stolen from his desk drawer. 

1:45 
p.m. A resident of Lyons Hall reported that two accounting textbooks were taken from her book bag in the South _Dining Hall. The books were value~ at $97.00. 


2:00 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported losing his wallet sometime on Tuesday possibly at Galvin Life. Total loss valued at $25.00. 
8:30 p.m. Several students were referred to the Office of Student Af­fairs for possessing open alcohol con­tainers at the Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 
Friday, September 18 
10:00a.m. A Carroll Hall resident reported a suspicious person around the dorm. Security responded and found the suspect. This person was found to be in possession of a small quantity of illegal drugs. The inci­dent is under further investigation. 
Saturday, September 19 
10: 15a.m. Some unknown miscreants did approximately $2500 damage to the elevator in Washing­ton Hall. The vandalism was re­ported to Security by the manager of the building. 
3:05p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of his wallet from the quad near the Law School. His loss is estimated at $100. 
5:00p.m. A resident of Chicago was arrested on a charge of Public In­toxication after an incident in Green Field. 
6:00p.m. Two visitors from the Chicago area were caught by plain clothes officers while they were in possession ot narcotics. The arugs were seized, and the case is being forwarded to the St. Joseph County Prosecuters Office. 

6:30p.m. A parking lot attendant was struck by a car while in Blue Field. The pedestrian suffered a fractured foot as a result. The acci­dent is under investigation. 
7:05p.m. A University employee reported damage to her car due to a hit and run accident which occurred in the A-3 lot. Damage to her car is estimated at $500. 
7:50p.m. A South Bend resident was arrested for Driving While In­toxicated while he was near Gate 14 of the stadium. 
10:35p.m. A resident of South Bend reported the theft of an equalizer from his car while it was parked in Gold Field. The loss is set at $120. 
10:45p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the east side of Alumni. The bike is valued at $50. 
11: 10p.m. Two cars were involved in a minor property damage accident as both were trying to exit White Field after the Football Game. 
Sunday, September 20 
3:21a.m. Notre Dame Security was called to assist a county police offi­cer who had stopped 5 students as they were stealing street signs owned by the city of South Bend. The driver of the car was arrested for Driving While Intoxicated by the county officer. 
8:30a.m. A South Bend man was stopped from selling items without a permit on University property. 
1 :50p.m. A visitor from Ann Arbor, Michigan reported the theft of mis­cellaneous items from his car while it was parked near the O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. His loss is estimated at $340. 
ROTC honors POWs and M lAs 
President Reagan. The cere­mony also observed what Govenor of Indiana Robert Orr declared Official Airforce ROTC Day. 
Two members from each the Airforce, Navy, and Army ROTC programs lowered both the Amerian flag and a black flag. honoring the POW's and MIA's, as troops from the respective services stood at at­tention. 
After the flags had been lowered, Commanding Officer of the Airforce ROTC program, Colonel David Woods, ad­dressed the troops and on­lookers. " I ask you to keep in your thoughts those who are not among us and are still missing in action," he said. 
Father Bill Campbell, assis­tant to Father Malloy for ROTC affairs, then took the podium. "We must not forget all our men are not accounted for ... Until they are brought home, we, in uniform will not forget," he said. 
Among the dignitaries who partook in the brief twenty min­ute ceremony were Notre Dame Airforce ROTC alumni, members of the South Bend Bicentennial Committee, and officers from the Airforce, Armv. and Navv. 
WAriTf;D 

USC vs. NO FOOTBALL TIC~TS 
21.3422-2812 
By CELESTE FREIND 
News staff 
Despite rain clouds and threatening skies, ROTC detachments gathered on South Quad Friday in a com­memorative observance of Na-
Reasonable Rates Call 259-9506 anytime 
tiona! POWMIA Day. 
Army, Airforce, and Navy ROTC contingents held a flag­lowering ceremony to recog­nize American servicemen missing in action or taken captive on a day officially ded­icated to their memory by 
1m1 
OFFK::EOF CAMPUS 
1'V11NI5TRY 

--·
INITIATION in the CATHOUC CHURCH 
Information Sessions September 27 
7 P.M. Library Lounge_ Baytism: For unbaptised persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
Full Communion: For baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
Swnsocs.; Fm· baptised Catholics willing to journey with persons who are becoming members of the Catholic Church. 
a_P.M. Library_Wunge_ 
Confirmation: For baptised Catholics wanting to celebrate the sacrament of Cmurrmation. 




---~-~--~-------~----­
page 6 The Observer 
"Moose" dedication 

Edward "Moose" Krause, former N.D. athletic N.D.·Michlgan State soccer game. Krause accepts director, receives a plaque at the dedication of the honors along with his daughter and Krause Stadium during halftime Friday of the grandchildren. 

Pact rekindles NATO debate 
The Observei1Susan Coene 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The tenta­tive U.S.-Soviet agreement to eliminate intermediate-range nuclear missiles has rekindled debate on whether NATO needs to beef up its conventional forces to match the Kremlin led Warsaw Pact. 
The powerful chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sam Nunn, D-Ga., said the "real test" of the mis­sile deal will be whether the West can improve its conven­tional forces to cope with what he and other experts call a sig­nificant tilt in favor of the War­saw Pact. 
Nunn did not link a conven­tional force buildup to Senate ratification of the proposed pact on intermediate nuclear forces (INF). 
But he repeated a warning he made last April to North Atlan­tic Treaty Organization offi­cials in Brussels on the need for "a psychological link be­tween completing the withdrawal of all INF missiles from Europe and progress in separate conventional and chemical arms control negotia­tions." 
Nunn, asked Sunday on the • NBC-TV program "Meet the Press" whether he would vote against the arms treaty be­cause of the conventional forces imbalance, said: "well, I'm not going to decide how I'm going to vote on the treaty. I'm saying it's a big problem, and we should have gotten on it a long time ago." 
Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, inter­viewed on ABC-TV's "This Week with David Brinkley," was more outspoken, calling the arms control agreement "a small step in the wrong direc­tion." 
"Basically it's a small step in the direction of taking out nuclear weapons in Europe while leaving the conventional balance, which heavily favors the Soviet Union, leaving all that in place," Aspin said. 
Secretary of State George Shultz, appearing on the same program, said, "There is a dif­ference between the Warsaw Pact forces and the NATO forces, and so we have had a conventional arms negotiation going on for some time. There will be a new one and we Will work at the business of bring­ing that into more equality, and I think that's important to do." 
In the meantime, however, Shultz said that "Europe will be more safe" because of the agreement on intermedidate­range missiles. 
"How can you say that we become militarily worse off when they eliminate about 2,000 warheads and we elimi­nate about 350?" he asked. "It boggles my mind that anbyody could think that. They don't do arithmetic.'' 
David Abshire, the former 
U.S. ambassador to NATO, warned earlier in the week that recent additions of tanks and helicopters had further tipped the balance in the Soviet favor. 
And Abshire, the chancellor of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Wash­ington, announced a new drive to lobby West European leaders to "push forward rapidly (with) meaningful con­ventional force improve­ments." 

.-~A~l~th~o~u~g~h~~~~c~o~ns~t=-r~a~~·n~t"'~-_:_-_:__·~B~-5~2~~~::::__:b:::o::m::b::::e::::r_:::s.:_.---~lYS!~-_.:!T!:.!h~e:!.re'!;:_.!!a~n~~~~~ in the Constitution. 


GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAT. 
The hardest thing about break­
ing into professional 
music is-well, break­
ing into professional 
music. So if you're 
looking for an oppor­
tunity to turn your 
musical talent into 
a full-time perform­
ing career, take a 
good look at the 
Army. It's not all parades and John Philip Sousa. Army bands rock, waltz and boogie as well as march, and they perform before concert au­diences as well 

and national rivalries have hin­dered West European nations from increasing their defense budgets, there was an aware­ness of the problem, at least on the part of NATO general Sec­retary Lord Carrington, the former British foreign mini­ster. 
In a speech before the Royal Institute of International Af­fairs in London, Carrington urged that the West "not be carried away in a wave of eup­haria at the first sign of an arms agreement." 
Reshaping the Western arse­nal for a post-INF europe, in effect, will be NATO's agenda for at least the next five years and probably for some time after that, he said. 
At thelieart of the contention that NATO is outgunned is the imbalance in troop levels. ­
The debate over the need to strengthen NATO conventional forces is likely to intensify. The Pentagon has already pro­posed a step to close the per­ceived gap, saying it wants to drop plans to retire 25-year-old 
of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first-rate pro­fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help you pay for off­
duty instruc­
tion, and if you qual­ifv, even 
help you repay your federally-insured student loans. 
If 


'Monday, September 21, 1987 

Opposition paper to be allowed 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-The Sandinista government will al­low Nicaragua's opposition newspaper La Prensa to reopen, Foreign Minister Miguel D'Escoto and a partner in the paper said Sunday. 
D'Escoto said in a telephone interview with the Associated Press in San Jose, Costa Rica, that the paper, closed June 26, 1986, would be allowed to resume publishing immedi­ately without prior censorship. 
Carlos Holmann, a partner in the paper, did not say in a brief telephone interview when the paper would reopen. 
Holmann said permission to reopen was the result of a meeting Saturday of President Daniel Ortega, Agrarian Reform Minister Jaime Wheelock and La Prensa co­owner Violeta Chamorro. 
Costa Rica's foreign mini­ster, Rodrigo Madrigal Nieto, arranged the meeting and also participated in it. The reopen­ing first became known in Costa Rica because of his role. 
Pope fulfills promise to visit Canadian site 
Associated Press 
FORT SIMPSON, Northwest Territories -Welcomed by a drum song and a sacred fire, Pope John Paul II kept a prom­ise Sunday by visiting this sub­arctic outpost, where he spoke in support of native rights and warned Indians not to let "instability" undermine their society. 
A steady drizzle fell as the pope's plane arrived at an airstrip from Edmonton, Al­berta, at the end of his 10 day 
U.S. tour. But the sky brightened and a rainbow ap­peared as he was greeted by Indian and Canadian officials. 
Then he drove in a papal mini-van down a dirt road to the settlement on the banks of the mile-wide Mackenzie 
read music, performing in the Army could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. 

ARMYBAMD. 
BE ALLYOU CAM BE. 
D'Escoto said, "Inspite of the fact that there is still a state of emergency, inspite of the fact that the Reagan adminis­tration is still waging war through its mercenaries, we are moving ahead and doing a series fo things, among which is allowing La Prensa to reopen." 
Ortega said earlier that the newspaper would not be al­lowed to publish again until the Reagan administration halted aid to the Contra rebels fighting his leftist government. 
The paper was closed a day after the U.S. House of Repre­sentatives approved $100 mil­lion in aid to the rebels. 
The government closed it temporarily twice and cen­sored it so extensively that it missed publication 35 times. The closure and censorship both came under the state of emergency, first declared in March 1982. 
The permission to reopen was the latest in a series of liberalization moves by the Sandinista government. 
4,000 Dene Indians huddled un­der white plastic raincoats in front of a 55 foot tepee. 
The chair on which the pope sat during the Mass was made from moose antlerstand hide. From it, the Holy Father could look out over a riverside plateau filled with pews and chairs for Indian elders and faithful. Past a giant wooden cross pointing down river, the pope could see the river and a glimpse of autumn gold in the 
white bank.  birch on the  opposite  
In  a  20-minute  address  

delivered before Mass, the pope reaffirmed the church's support for native rights and prayed for a "just agreement" with the Canadian government on protection for those rights 








Viewpoint
Monday, September 21, 1987 page 7 
P.O. Box Q 
Humor helps all deal with troubles 
Dear Editor: 
I read last week's Scholastic cartoon, "Life in Hell," and I laughed. I took it for what it was--humorous satire. Nevertheless, a group of vociferous prigs would have Scholastic edit even our comic strips because they believe that the spectre of racism lurks behind every door. Enough is enough, if these guardians of social virtue cannot tolerate the funnies, how will they pos­sibly endure the realities of life? There lies the crux of the issue--we all need a sense of humor to travail life's many pitfalls. Humor reflects the tragic more often than the joyful in life. Jonathan Swift, an Irishman who knew a bit about humor and a lot about life, told us that humor was "odd, grotesque, and wild." "Life in Hell" was all those things, but more importantly, it was funny. 
William Joseph Sammon Alumni Hall 
Inauguration an event for everyone 
Dear Editor: 
It will be on every newscast. It will be in every newspaper. It will be on every radio station. And you have the opportunity to be there--the Inaugura­tion of Father Malloy. Never before have there been Inaugural ceremonies to install the president of the University of Notre Dame. We are Notre Dame students at a rare and extremely im­portant time in Notre Dame's history. 
Inauguration day will begin with mass at 10:00 a.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Arena. Father Malloy will celebrate for all students, faculty and guests. 
The formal installation of Father Malloy as president will begin at 3:00 in the arena of the JACC. At this Aca­demic Convocation, Donald R. Keough, chairman of the University of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and the pres­ident and CEO of The Coca-Cola Com­pany, and Father Hesburgh will pres­ent Father Malloy with the symbols of office. All students are invited to this special Notre Dame moment. 
Finally, beginning at 5:30 on the 
South Quad, we students will have our 
own reception for Father Malloy. Our 
student picnic will be complete with 
live entertainment and a special 
presentation to Father Malloy. 
We are encouraging all students to 
attend and enjoy the inaugural fes­
tivities on Wednesday, September 23. 
Father Malloy would greatly appreci­
ate the support of the student body at 
this milestone in his life. His concern 
and closeness to the students can only 
be strengthened by student interest and 
participation in the inaugural events. 
This is a rare opportunity to be a part 
of a strategic moment in Notre Dame 
history. 
Pat Cooke Student Body President Laurie Bink Student Body Vice president 
Sexist signs show lack of respect 
Dear Editor: 

For several weeks now, as I have traveled across campus, I have been forced to see a series of quotations posted in a first floor window of Cavanaugh Hall. All of these quotes have focused on one subject--women. For those who have seen the signs, there is no need for me to explain their nature. All of these "quips" have been derogatory and insulting towards wo­men. Ranging from implications about treating women with physical abuse to suggestions about "fencing in" a nearby girls dorm, these remarks have been tasteless, sexist and downright crude. 
Perhaps, these quotations are meant lightly; just as a joke; all in good fun. But since these signs are made avail­able to the public, and their producer is not, we have no idea what his inten­tions are. In light of this, and the nature of the comments, I do not find these quotes very amusing. I would hope that students of Notre Dame have respect for all people, regardless of sex, class, or race. 
Furthermore, it surprises me that nothing has been done about these signs. The Observer should have been overflowing with letters on the subject. We are part of a university that believes in equality for all; we are part of a student body that opposes injustice in all its forms, yet no one has criticized this practice. I am shocked that no other man or woman on this campus has made a public statement regarding these quotes. Equality and respect are usually not given freely; they need to be demanded. On behalf of the women of Notre Dame, and of all persons who 
believe in equality, I am  demanding  
some respect.  
Eileen Doherty  

Pasquerilla West 
Sound judgement must guide choices 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter from a Keenan Hall freshman who found his doubts somewhat alleviated by the sight of the Dome. It seems a bit premature to consider transferring to another university because one does not feel the "flame of enlightenment burning within" after the first week of classes. This notwithstanding, any stu­dent who, despite his dislike for the in­stitution remains at a university simply because it has a "really special dome" is very confused. 

I think we can all appreciate the mixed feelings of a freshman entering any college. However, Notre Dame is a great university with a tradition of excellence in academia and in graduat­ing productive, mature adults. The complaints of a petulant 18-year old who (in his visits to 5 to 15 colleges) either never came here and never talked to a student, or himself over­looked the essential factors of parietals and the Alcohol Policy, should not be of serious concern. 
I hope that this student decides to remain at Notre Dame, and that he has a wonderful college experience. In or­der for this to happen, however, he will need to get his priorities straight and to make some clear-headed judge­ments. In the meantime, I am not sure that the campus newspaper should be the forum for his emotionally charged questioning of what the university has to offer. 
David Spach St. Edward's Hall 

Dooneabury Garry Trudeau 
Campus Quote 

"There's no place like Notre Dame, where all combine to put forth their greatest efforts of continuing the proud tradition of the Fighting Irish." 
Joe Yonto Scholastic Sept. 17, 1987 


General Board 
Editor·in·Chief.. .. ....... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor .............. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor . ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Me.nager ..... .............. Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...... ......................................... Jim Ailey Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor... ....................Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor....... . .......... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor...... .. ....... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor .......... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton 
Photo Editor .. . . . .. .. .. .. . .. ......... Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1988 


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ot Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Cartoon must be taken in context 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to Cheryl Ann Leslie's column titled "Cartoon's Ra­cial Slur Inappropriate" of Sept. 16. I was greatly disturbed by her reaction to Matt Groening's cartoon. Cheryl felt the reference to blacks might as well have been a slap in the face. I am sorry she feels that way, because it seems to be because she did not understand the strip. 
Matt Groening writes about "Life in Hell." His comics are about the absur­dities of life and his sarcastic responses to this world. All of our lives, we are taught how to think, and to behave, by people who really know no more than we do. Mr. Groening depicted the eighth grade teacher as a type of white, middle class woman who became a teacher because she enjoyed the feeling of superiority. She wanted to gain the respect she never received previously in her life. Didn't you have two or three teachers like that growing up? The all­knowing mind-manipulator of our ear­lier years is the type of teacher Matt Groening was trying to relate to us. There were, and still are, some teach­ers in all-white schools who hold prejudices against blacks. The eighth­grader in the comic strip had grown up in the all-white school with authority figures such as his teacher. They in­stinctively induced a fear into the minds of their students. 
Being open-minded might help Cheryl to understand the comic strip. It wasn't meant to offend anyone. I sin­cerely feel that Matt Groening was trying to convey an experience that most of us could relate to. 
Cheryl said she was offended and em­barrassed that the University had al­lowed the strip to be printed. Such hasty interpretations of media can lead to a stifling, not to mention boring, society. This University cannot always protect us from the things we don't like. 
I am not prejudiced, nor was I in­sulted by the comic strip. I consider myself to be reasonably mature, and I found the strip humorous. I hope you can see the point I have tried to make. 
Anne Bruns Off-Campus 


·-----------·-~---------:----------~·-----~-----------~ 



Accent
page 8 Monday, September 21, 1987 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
All My Children: Julie ran away to New York after dis­covering that Elizabeth had been a prostitute. Elizabeth became fearful when a mys­terious man named Creed turned up in town. Realizing that Ross and Natalie were still involved, Palmer kicked Natalie and Timothy out. Travis wasn't thrilled when Jackson asked for a job with his campaign. Mitch had a narrow escape from the Montero's henchman. Coming: Ross searches for Julie. Another World: Vicki saw Donna and John share a kiss. Peter offered John their boat to live on. Cass met Nicole Love and became her lawyer to help protect her fashion designs. Nicole snubbed John. Chad and Dawn planned their future in Bay City. Amanda got jealous when Sam dated Cheryl. Mary applied for a job with Michael after she and Vince agreed to a prop­erty settlement. Coming: Michael senses something is wrong. As The World Turns: Frannie called off the wedding after Seth mistakenly made love to Sabrina. Seth and Rod had a flstfight. Taylor began to seduce Casey after he drank too much. After seeing with relief that the floating body was only a dummy, Duncan made love 

, to Shannon. Later, Shannon was appalled when Duncan admitted to being a modern­day pirate. Nick was revealed as James' contact in Oak­dale. Coming: Hal searches for the Falcon. Days Of Our Lives: Kayla agreed to marry Jack. which broke Melissa's heart. Patch convinced Ed to disgrace Shane with a sex scandal-­using Shane's former flame Gabrielle. Frankie and Jen­nifer considered getting married. Diana and Roman grew closer after she saved Carrie from a boat accident. Someone tinkered with Diana's car, causing a crash from which she and Kiriakis narrowly escaped. Coming: Grace and Neil make a committment. General Hospital: Monica was elected president of HTI, much to Sean's ire. Unable to cope with his attraction to Lucy, Tony took a vacation. Bobble grew increasingly concerned about Melissa's hoody friends. After Duke and Anna reaffirmed their love, he accepted her marriage pro­posal. Scorpio tried to trick Dusty into revealing Elena's whereabouts, unaware that Dusty planned to flee on a freighter. Coming: Dusty's future is at stake. Guiding Light: Johnny had cancer surgery at Cedars, and the prognosis was not good. After an Intense dis­cussion of their relationship, Reva and Josh made love. 
Phillip saw Alan kiss Vaoes­sa. Rusty walked in on Will and Mindy in the Jacuzzi. Rusty prevented Sarah from getting involved in a scam. Ross and Alan bailed out their children when Dinah was grabbed by campus security after she angrily took a joint away from Alan­Michael. Coming: New feelings for Dinah. Loving: Clay accused Shana of trying to steal his job while he was in the hospital. Ava pretended that Kate was her maid in front of some society women. Lily used guilt on Jack, who suc­cumbed to her again. Alan told April about his unhappy childhood.· Ned resisted a come-on from Chris. April tried another escape at­tempt. Coming: Ava flaunts her new position. One Life to Live: During Tina's trial, Kate claimed that Tina was responsible for Maria's death, and Herb brought in a surprise witness--Juan. Wade stopped Mari-Lynn from committing suicide by pretending to drown. When Elizabeth refused to give Kate Sanders chemicals, Patrick dosed her tea. Sandra shot Frank before he could kill John and Cassie, who had dis­covered their life insurance scam. ComJng: Mari-Lynn finds a 
future. Ryan's Hope: Dakota took credit for ending the experi­ment at Wellman, much to everyone's chagrin. Zena stayed with Jack after being threatened by Lyndon. Pat and Concetta worked things out. Emily took a secret trip. John sulked while Ben and Lizzie were wildly happy. Coming: Career contlicts for Ryan. Santa Barbara: Brick rescued Laken and Jake from thugs, impressing the police; Gina became convinced that Pamela Conrad is alive. Tori was hit by a truck after a seance in which she heard Mason calling. Jeffrey, Kelly and Julie believed a fake gypsy knew where Mason was. Cruz lured Eleanor into a frozen food locker, hoping she'd be scared into confes­sion. Cain remembered being hurt by a woman named Elena Nlkolas. Coming: Cruz puts on the pressure. The Young & The Restless: Cricket accompanied Phillip to an AA meeting, where he admitted to being an al­coholic. Jack wondered about Lauren and Brad's relationship, as Brad left to see Traci in California. ~y and Jill encountered each other at the Colonnade Room with their dates. Ellen was offered a new job, while Jack urged her to consider her feelings for his father. Coming: Dealing with an old flame, 
1987, McNaught Synd. 


Author of 'Red October' depicts 'people in crisis' 
Associated Press 
T
om Clancy was an English major in college, but he earned his living as an insur­ance agent until his first novel, "The Hunt for Red October," became a best seller in 1985. 
That book. which was pub­lished by the Naval Institute Press of Annapolis, Md., has sold more than 300, 000 copies in hardcover and three million in paperback. It was based on newspaper articles in the mid­1970s about a Soviet destroyer whose crew unsuccessfully at­tempted to defect to Sweden. 
Clancy's latest novel, "Patriot Games," was published two weeks after his second novel, "Red Storm Rising," appeared in paperback. 
"Red Storm Rising," based on a scenario for a war game, was published in 1986. It was on the hardcover best-seller lists for nearly a year and has sold more than one million copies. Paperback sales are expected to be in the millions. 
"It is rather amazing that all my books are best sellers," Clancy said in a telephone in­terview. But he insists, "any­one can write a novel," adding that his computer--and "a su­perb editor"--help his work go relatively smoothly. 
Clancy became an insurance agent shortly after graduating from Loyola College in his na­tive Baltimore in 1969. He didn't start writing fiction until 1982, when he decided to write "something I could be proud of." 
He no longer works at the small insurance agency in rural Maryland that he and his wife purchased in 1980, although 
Calvin and Hobbes 
I'M t-()T GOING \0 8E lt.P 
B~ '/0\.1! IJ.f n\t. RIG\-\mJl 
CA\'\to.lt'-1 ~ '10\J -l\.JS\ S\Ol£. 
1'\'1 CA\'\t\1~ 1.\t.L\-1\t.T! ' 

his wife, Wanda, still works there. 
These days, Clancy spends much of his time at home, working at his computer. He starts at 8:30 in the morning, putting in four to six hours a day. He is working on his fourth novel, which is sched­uled to be finished at the end of this year. 
The walls of Clancy's office at his suburban home are lined with about 3,000 books, many of which reflect the author's life-ion~ fascination with tech­nology. Clancy has been reading military books since childhood. 
"I mainly like technology, and the military has the nicest toys," he says. However, Clancy adds, contrary to what his fans might think. not all of the books in his study are about weapons. 
Although his novels have been described as being filled with technical details about mil­itary hardware and weaponry, Clancy says "the technology is overstated." He says he would rather describe his books as being about "people in crisis." 
for example, Clancy says one of the points he is trying to make in his latest novel is that "victims of terrorism aren't abstractions." 
Jack Ryan, the hero of "Red October," returns in "Patriot Games" to battle a renegade terrorist group. 
Clancy says the main ques­tions the novel asks are: "What is terrorism? What are the ter­rorists after? What is their methodology? How should we deal with terrorism as a fact of life?" 
Ryan will appear once again 

in Clancy's next novel, which the author says will have some­thing to do with a CIA "mole" in Moscow. 
"People in the military like my characters," Clancy says. "I was in England on vacation not long ago, and the captain of a surface warship in the Royal Navy told me how much he en­joyed my books because Qf how well I understand my characters." 
His novels have a global political-military theme, telling of events that could happen in the current world situation. And "Red Storm Rising" is now being used as a textbook at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I., Clancy says. 
However, the author doesn't claim to have a "crystal ball," and says his books should not be viewed as being a prediction of the future. 
With no military, political or: government training--except fOr! two years in the Army ROTC during college--Clancy says he gets his information from tech­nical manuals, conversations with former military officials, books, and periodicals. 
Clancy, who lives with his 

wife and four children in Prince 
frederick. Md., 40 miles from 
Washington, D.C., says the ma­
terial changes brought by 
becoming a best-selling author 
aren't the important things. 
"''m still a good father," Clancy says. "The most impor­tant thing is being a good fa­ther to your kids." 
And what do his children-­

ages 22 months to 14 years-­
think about their best-selling 
father? "They don't pay any 
attention to it. I'm still Dad<i}'." 
Bill Watterson 
-



Business
Monday, September 21, 1987 
page.~ 

The stock market and the Dow; Boone ups stock bid a look at what makes them up takeover resisted 
By JOHN WHOLIHAN Business Writer 
Editor's note: This is the first in a series of stories about how Notre Dame students can in­vest their money. 
There are numerous oppor­tunities afforded by the stock market for an individual to in­vest and earn money. 
Wall Street in New York City is home to the most famous part of the market: The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). 
It is here that more than 150 million shares of 2000 stocks change hands every business day. 
In addition, stocks are traded daily on the American Ex­change, the Over the Counter market and regional ex­changes, as well as on foreign markets. 
Most investors familiarize themselves with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), a popular guide of the movement of thirty active stocks. The DJIA is determined by the price changes of these stocks and by 
how  often  these  stocks  are  
bought and sold.  
These  thirty  stocks  are  

mostly large, blue-chip com­panies taken from all areas of the economy. 
Blue-chip companies are well known companies which are leaders in their industries. 
McDonalds, Exxon, and 
Woolworths are three of the 
stocks that make up the DJIA. 
Starting in the latter part of 

1982, the market averages and 
indexes, such as the Dow Jones, 
have been rising. This type of 
a market is refered to as a bull 
market. A falling market is 
known as a bear market. 
The Dow commenced a slow 

steady climb from the 1200 
level in 1982, to its present level 
of 2524. There have been set­
backs, such as last year's in­
sider trading scandal and sum­
mer slumps, but a strong 
outlook on the economy and 
relatively low levels of un­
employment, inflation and in­
terest rates have fueled this 

marathon rally. 
Wall Street 
at 

NO Ave. 
1987 has been a good year for 

the Dow Jones Average. The 
Average set a new high in each 
of the first thirteen trading 
days this year, breaking the 
2000 level in the process. 
The Dow closed at 2405.54 on 

April 6, its peak before the 
April-May slump. The DJIA 
slipped below 2220 on May 20 
before embarking on a 500 point 
rise. 
The purpose of this series IS 

to provide a basic understand­ing of the stock market and the investment horizon for that exists for individual investors with limited funds --something to which we can all relate. 
Many potential individual in­vestors are content to let their money earn the standard pas­sbook savings rate of 5 V4 per­cent. 
An informed investor will realize the advantages of placing extra funds in the stock market. It is possible to diver­sify the investments one holds, called a portfolio, even with just a few thousand dollars. 
In addition, unlike certain Certificate of Deposits (CO's), investors can get their money out of the market at any time. This liquidity factor is made possible by the immense num­ber of buyers and sellers in the marketplace. 
Studies have shown that the average long-term return on market investments is approx­imately nine percent. Of course, this is not guaranteed as are savings accounts and CO's, but an investor in the market has to be willing to ac­cept more risk in order to gain more return. 
With the help of a broker, an investor can find the invest­ments with which he is com­fortable. 
The second segment of this series will discuss the selection of a broker and the services provided by a brokerage firm. 
Dow Jones falls 3.26 points;
triple witching hour passes 
By STEVE CLAEYS Business Writer 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 3.26 points to 2524.64 points on Friday. 
Friday's decline contributed to a weekly loss of 84.10 points. 
This was the largest weekly drop since the Dow fell 141.03 points during the week of 9-8 to 912 in 1986. 
Approximately 188.Q7 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Investors were cautious be­cause Friday was 1 of 4 "triple witching hours" during the year. 
Triple witching hours are the day when the quarterly stock index futures, index options and options on individual stocks expire. 
COUNSELINE Volunteers WantedI!! 
We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if ... 
-You want to help provtde a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
-You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work In a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for Tim at the University 
Counseling Cenrer or just leave a 
message. 239-7336. 
A future is a type of invest­ment in which an investor at­tempts to predict the value of a stock or the average of a group of stocks at a set expera­tion time. If the investor predicts correctly then he will receive a return for his invest­ment. 
The set experation time for some of these futures is the third Friday of every third month. 
Investors in stock futures on these days at times will buy and sell stocks in order to cause stock and stock average prices to equal the values they predicted. 
This activity may cause the market to fluctuate with prices rising and falling wildly. It is because of these unpredictable price swings on the days when the stock futures expire that in­vestors call them triple witch­ing hours. 
New rules introduced to prevent wide price fluctuations from stock futures have been introduced. Apparently these measures have been effective in light of the market's small drop on Friday. 
Pessimism from the triple witching hour was offset by good news from the Commerce Department. 
The department announced on Friday that the U.S. eco­nomy grew an annual rate of 
2.5 percent in the second quar­ter of the year. 
This growth was stimulated by the manufacturing sector of the economy. 
T. Boone Pickens and his Ivanhoe Partners have upped their offer for Newmont Mining Company to $105 per share from $95 per share for 28 million shares (Business Briefs September 14). Newmont's Board recommended that share­holders reject the initial $95 offer. The new bid helped raise Newmont's share price to Friday's close of $101.125. There is speculation that Pickens may have to raise the bid again if his second bid is not accepted by its expiration date of October 5. 

Wholihan and Murray 
Business Bits 


Liberal Beat: The United Auto Workers union won a 
milestone contract last week, securing job guarantees at 
Ford Motor Corporation. For the next three years, Ford will 
not close any plant~, will not eliminate any positions and will 
replace half of the workers who retire or quit. Ford .lost 
flexibility through the new contract, but the stock remamed 
stable on Wall Street this week. Ford has already adjusted 
its workforce for the next few years to avoid damage to its 
bottom line. The automaker can shrink its workforce again 
when the new contract expires. 
For years, acid rain legislation has been stalled on Capitol Hill. The big business lobby representing the coal industry has contended that the amount of money spent in complying with the regulations would halt research of clean coal facilities, as reported in The Wall Street Journal. Clean coal projects promise to burn coal with less eromisions of ozone damaging chemicals. A new Clean Air Act bill threatens to saddle the coal industry with billions of dollars of capital investments to reduce emmisions immediately. 
Another Japanese first in the auto industry. Honda Motor is planning to build cars in the United States and export them. This move has long-term financial implications. The Japanese auto maker will likely export these vehicles to West­ern European nations. Through builting the cars in America, Honda will get around the import fees that -Europeans have charged for cars made in Japan. In addition, the dollar is weak versus European currency, thus providing another fin­ancial benefit to Honda. However, the actual shipping of U.S.-Honda cars will not take place for at least two years. Honda is betting on the current dollar situation to continue so that this move will be profitable in the long-run. 
The last word: While speaking about impending eco­nomic doom in The Wall Journal, Mr. John B. Neff, a famous investment advisor: "You've got interest rates increasing, you have an economic expansion that's mature, we're going to have a recession at some point, and we may even get a Democratic Administration." 

----~---------~-----· -. 
Monday, September 21, 1987

page 10 The Observer 
-


Sports Briefs 
The volleyball team won the Eastern Kentucky Colonel Invitational this weekend. Friday, the Irish defeated William and Mary, 11-15, 15-13, 8-15, 15­13, 15-10, and Eastern Kentucky, 15-11, 15-7, 15-5. Saturday, Notre Dame beat Cincinnati, 10-15, 15-10, 15-5, 13-15, 15-10, and then won the Championship Match  The Domer Runs September 26 will start at 11 a.m. rather than 10:30. Runners should sign up from 10-10:45 a.m. -The Observer The Racquetball Club will hold its organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 118 of the Nieuwland Sci­ The ski team will hold a meeting Thursday, September 24, at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre for those interested in a Christmas break ski trip. This year's trip, open to all students, will be to Telluride, Co., Jan. 2-10. -The Observer  
over Rice, 7-15, 15-11, 10-15, 15-6, 15-7.  ence Hall. The league schedules will be  
The Observer  distributed at this time, so attendance is  
The ~olf team won a dual match this weekend with Northwestern at the Lake Doster course in Plainwell, Mic­higan, 379 to 406. Dick Connelly led the Irish with a 72, while Doug Giorgo and Terry Berland each tallfea a75 and Pat Mohan scored a 76. -The Observer  requested. For more information, call Mark (1422) or Dave (1425). -The Obser­ver . NVA Aerobics classeson Tuesdays and Thursdays now begin at 6:45 p.m. instead of 7 p.m. -The Observer  Stepan Court time requests are now being accepted at the Student Ac­tivities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. If your club-Organization would like to reserve time for basketball, now is the time to apply. Deadline for applications is September 25. -The Observer  

NFL strike on Tuesday may be inevitable 
Associated Press ington, where picket signs were Donlan, executive director of again if he's going to be vague 
ready for Tuesday's walkout. the NFL Management Council, and general." 
NEW YORK -NFL teams No new talks were scheduled, said Sunday. "I don't think it's The versions of those infor­played what could be their final and the two sides were unable likely, but I have to keep think­mal talks were symbolic of the games of 1987 on Sunday, 48 even to agree on their disagree­ing that way." chasm between the sides. hours away from a strike that ments. The owners claimed the But Upshaw saw no rabbits seemed inevitable unless players' demand for free on the horizon following the The Management Council someone could "pull a rabbit agency was the sole issue that most recent meeting, an infor­said Donlan offered conces­out-of a hat." couldn't be resolved easily; the mal three-hour session be­sions on pension, roster size 
There was hardly a hint of union said the owners were tween the two chief negotiators and other issues; Upshaw said optimism as 26 of the league's stalling on a vast range of is­Friday. At those talks, the he heard nothing specific that 28 teams took the field under sues. union rejected Donlan's re­could make him postpone the 
the shadow of the second strike Owners, meanwhile, were quest for a 30-day extension of strike deadline. in six years and the fifth since going ahead with plans to play the strike deadline in return for Two members of the Man­1968. It will start when the other games with free agents. concessions on issues other agement Council executive two teams, the New York Jets Several teams claimed they than free agency. committee said Sunday they and New England Patriots, had nearly full rosters signed were convinced the dispute complete their game Monday to resume play in two weeks, "We need someone to make could be settled quickly it not night. with the fourth week of the the deal," Upshaw said. "Ob­for the union's demand for 
"My agenda now is to season. viously, when Jack talked to what it calls •runfettered" free prepare for a strike," Gene Up­Was there any hope? me, it was just part of a grand agency -the right of a player shaw, executive director of the "I'm still working on the the­plan.... We've met one-on-one to change teams without his 
NFL players Association, said ory that we might be able to eight or 10 times. I'm not going new team having to com­at union headquarters in Wash-pull a rabbit out of a hat," Jack to meet with him one-on-one pensate the old one. 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
the defense. Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt added an in­surance goal early in the second half to give the final3-1 margin. 
"If we continue to play only 50-60 minutes of a 90-minute game, we'll get a rude awaken­ing from some of the teams down the road." 
Notre Dame hosts Illinois State Wednesday in a 7 p.m. contest. 
Frldtly Nlght'l G..n~ Nolrl Dime 3, Michigan State 1 Michigan State 1 o 1 Notre Dame 2 1 3 
Firat Hall Notre Dame • Sternberg 6 (Roemer) 2:29. Michigan State • Blanchard (Harsch) 15:21. Notre Dame • Bahrje 3 (Guignon) 18:29. 
Second Half Notre Dame • McCourt 3 (Sternberg) 50:03. 
Sav• ·Heide (Michigan State) 6, Lyons (Notre Dame) 3. Comera ·Michigan State 3, Notre Dame 15. Foula ·Michigan State 20, Notre Dame 18. Vel­•-C.rda -Cudney (Michigan State) 9:58, Busch (Michigan State) 54:10, Morris (Notre Dame) 87:42. Aid Card -Cudney (Michigan State) 70:00. Aateree -Laalo Molnar. Llnearnen -Danny Nava, David Pur­
cell. Attendance -1,705. 
Sunday Afllrnoon'a Game 
Notre Dame 5, North-atern 0 Northwestern o 0 o Notre Dame 2 3 5 
Firat Half Notre Dame· S. LaVIgne 2 (Murphy) 13:47. Notre Dame • Murphy 2 (Roemer) 15:58. 
Sacond Hall Notre Dame • Murphy 3 (Morris) 50:28. Notre Dame • Sternberg 7 (Morris) 72:58. Notre Dame • Bah~e 4 (Augustyn) 80:28. 
Shota on Goal 
Savel -Kokodynski (Northwestern) 3, Lyons (Notre Dame) 2. Comer• -Northwestern 5, Notre Dame 9. Foula -Northwestern 23, Notre Dame 30. Yellow C.rda -Muldon (Northwestern) 41 :30, Beh~e (Notre Dame) 60:00. AelerM ·Mike Hajda). Llneamen ·Joe Bella, Laslo Molnar. Attendance • 614. 
Correction 
The Observer incorrectly reported on Friday that the Alpine Club's organizational meeting was cancelled. The meeting was held Friday. 

n.a...-Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­ct.nt CeftW, .:cepla cluaifled .twerllltng from 10 Lin. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvough Frtdar. ...._ a...-s.lnt Mwy'a office, located on the third floor of Hllgpr Collge Centw, acc:epta c'-lfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfough Frtdar. DMdllne for next-day claaalfledsls3 p.m. All claaalfleds muat
Classifieds be Pf11P*, either In peraon or by mall. The ch.-ge Is 10 cents per five ctw"8ctWa per day. 
NOTICES 

SPEE-DEE WOADPAOCESSING. 0: 237·1949; H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WOAD PRO· CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277·1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING-WOAD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 

Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your te>ctbooks at Pandora's Bookstore, located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weew 10:00 a.m.-5:30. 
W~h. receive an extra 10% off on pur­chases of used paperbacks (in stock) at Pandora's Bookstore, located at 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeiV 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
' LOST/FOUND I 
LOST Ill A GOLD HERRINGBONE NECKLACE. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO STEPHANIE. CALL ANYTIME AT 284· 5183. THANXII 
Helpl!ll I lost my only set of car keys, room keys, detex, and Washington State Driver's license Sunday night somewhere between the Oak Room and Walsh at about 11 :30 p.m.. They are all hooked together on a key chain. Please ca/12971 anytime. Rewardll 
. . ................. 

FOUND: One bracelet. Silver and pearls. 
A friend tells me that the perfume it is 
imbued with is Chane! No. 5. If you want 
this back, call 1536 either early or late, 
or call 239·5305 and ask for Mark 
Mclaughlin. 

. . ... ······•····· . . .. ··················· LOST: CALCULATOR, CASIO 7000. PLEASE HELP ME OUT. IF FOUND, CONTACT JOHN AT 1620. $$$ REWARD$$$. 
..................... 

LOST: ALL OF MY KEYS SOMEWHERE AT SMC. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 283· 1'073 OR I'M OUT $75. 
Whoever picked up my Guess jean jacket with ID and keys by mistake at Senior Bar on Thurs. 917 --Please call mel No questions asked. Leanne 289-6512 
FOR RENT 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259·4943 OR 234-3827. 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272·5959 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH· BOAHOOD 255·36114'288-0955 
STUDIO, Furnished, $225, 4 Min. from campus. Call Don at 282·3508 leave name and phone number or call 239­6589 on campus from 8·5. 
WANTED 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WAITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272· 0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
································································ 
I need Penn St. GA's call Marty-1050 
Modell needed lor IUSB Fine Arts De­partment. Clothed, $4.00 hr., nucla, $8.00 hr and up. Contact Joan For· ay1he or Tony Droege, 237-4277, or Harold Langland, 237-4475. 
Need to rent a car once or twice a week to travel to Plymouth IN. Will pay big $$1 Call Aaron at 3236 
FOR SALE 
71 IMPALA $300 277·4576 
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER sears graduate w-t:orr. incl. carrying case 75.00 btl x4333 
1984 Toyota Extra-Cab Pick-Up. Auto­matic, AM-I'M & Cassette. 21,000 miles. $5,200. Call Kat1e 239-5200 during day, or 232·5238 after 6:00. 
...................... . ................... OW-Ticket, Anywhere U.S.,$ 95 Phone 234 4948 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233­5732 
....................................................... 
I NEED PENN ST GA'SI MOM AND.OAO WILL PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL SUE AT X4238. 
WANT USC·ND FOOTBALL TIX. 213· 422·2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
w'ii.'L"i=iif.:oe·2·GA.usc·:rix··;;c;ii·2·"G;. 
BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321· 8269 9·5 EST. 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S CALL ROSS X1741 
Need 2 or 4 MSU GA'slll Call Lisa at 4588. 
Need Boston College GA's --will pay $$11 Call4302. 
SIX VOLUPTUOUS WOMEN ARE WILL· lNG TO SELL THEIR BODIES FOR PURDUE TIX. CALL 25761! 
Need GA's for all home games. Will pay big $. Call John 1837 
I NEED PURDUE I ALL HOME GAME GA'S. 272-8306 
WANTED: 2 USC Tix lor mom and dad call Kris 3099 
I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN 
MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN 
AT 1980 
.......................................... 
I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY 
GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL 
STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH 
YOUR WHILE 
············ .............. . I NEED SEVERAL ALABAMA GA'S OR STUDENT TIX. CALL ROONEY £234· 
6394 .......................... 
mom and UTILE SISTER have never 
been to NOTRE DAME. Coming in OC­
TOBER and need tickets for either 
game.(Can you hear !he violins? Well 
then can you hear the sound of BIG 
BUCKS? My Mom is a pigeon.) Call JOE 
at 3642 or MIKE at 3656. 
.................... 
1 GA FOR USC ·PLEASE SELL YOURS 
TO ME! 
CALL "ALASKA" £3007 
. .................... PLEASE!!!! NEED AT LEAST 2 GA'S FOR BOTH BC AND ALABAMA.WILL PAY$$$$ II! Call x1120 after 11pm 

BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC 
GA'S. CALL FRANK ·3104 
........................ 
NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S. USC-NEED 1 
STUD. CALL JOHN x1867 
WANTED: USC GA's WILL PAY $$$$$$$ CALL ELLEN 272-0806 
Need 2 USC ga's. Call Jose at 283-3346 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! I'M DESPEAATEIII! I need 2 or 4 GA'S to any home football game after MIC­HIGAN STATE!I!!!II!!I! If you can help, my Dad has tons of money, seriously. PLEASE CALL Jenny at x3618 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP My Dad needs 2 Navy GAsl If I doni get them he will send some very LARGE, very UN­FORGIVING persons out looking for me. Save my health, please! Call Pat at x1766 
NEED ONE B C TIK FOR BAO, CALL NOW ALSO NEED 4 GA TO ANY HOME GAME $$$ KEVIN 271·0932 
0 NAVYTIX I need GA's to the NAVY game. $$ TOP DOLLAR OFFERED $$ Call John: 283-2099 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UP! 

Giivs...ii.No...CEs.siiiN's··...A::r..·r:;a:rii'E 
DAME/ST. MARY'S COLLEGE (GLNOOMC) BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED ................................................................ DESPERATELY NEED 1 or 2 NAVY TIX 
CALL ALYSSA 3736 
I'M YOUNG AND RESTLESS AND GOING TO PURDUE FRIDAY, SEPT. 25. BUT THIS GUIDING LIGHT NEEDS RIDERS! COMING? CALL JODI AT 1282. 
DESPAAATELY SEEKING SOMEONE with NO va BC g.a.'a $$$ evenlnga ... 288·3018 (Matt) 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC. CALL LINDA AT 284-5406 
Need Riders to DAYTON !¥.15-!¥.17 Diane 2907 
HEY, I NEED 3 GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME! PLEASE CALL PATII AT 284· 5176. 
Attention Karen Lynch ¥'all turned 21 now, didn't ya? Well, we all say have a big ole' Happy Birthday. 
MODEL UNITED NATIONS CLUB meeting will be held on Sept. 21 at 7:30 
p.m. in 123 Nieuwland. All would be Ayatollahs and those interested in inter­national affairs welcome. 
We Want You .... to AUDITION for SMC's Club Tu~ay for more info. call £5444 
Two experienced sophs seek two wo­mervND chicks for relationship pertaining purely to pleasures of the flesh. No ex­perience necessary. x2763 
WOMEN The only thing you can rely on them for is their monthly friend. Sometimes not even that. HE-MAN WOMAN HATERS, ZAHM 
LOCAL 

To the Person(s) who drove the Campus Scene down to the printer last Thursday morning, I screwed up royally and I apologize. Sincerely, Robert Luxem 
Ted Rose .. (Here it is!) HAPPY BIRTHDAY !!! Glad you could come up for the MSU game. Wanted to say thanks for the J Walker Red (only a true friend would know that the way to my heart is through booze) and no thanks for the harassment at lunch. Hope your'e still here when this comes out --if not it will be in the mail as promised. Also hope your'e satisfied with this ad. I knew I could make it lengthy since I put it in with the money I bummed off of you al lunch. Take care, will miss you lots, etc. Luv ya, RTU 
Lost: Student football tix at Michigan State REWARD Call Chris Carney £3178 
Cubl, Snell, Vlno, Lar, Kristen, Brian, Dave, James, 
Goodby, I'll mlsa you all this year. Have tun In South Bend end wrtte me everyday. 
.............................................~.~~!!.~~!!.~ 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THAT LEAVES FRI. AFTER 4 AND RETURNS SAT. NITE WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL TOM AT 2301 OR 2302 
............ .. 
THE METS ARE POND SCUM 
Gogglehead, Perfume couldn't do it, so we're using the direct approach: PLEASE BATHE II Saction 9 
10 Better Reasons for joining the She-Aa Man Haters Club: Club: 10 Why else would we go to an all girts school? 9 Men can't dance 8 Their tolerance for alcohol is inferior (like everything else) 7 They think they know evertyhing about sports 6 Answer only to nicknames 5 Drive Blue vans with while tops and Georgia plates 4 She-Aa·Princess of Power 3 They wor· ship floating pink flamingoes 2 We had "The Edge" 1 We have better reasons for membership 
These are cheesy reasons 
Typical of women 
DJ Romano CONGAATSI On Making NO Golf M.C. 
......................... 
Happy 21st Birthday Anne Williard! 
Love, the Cranes of 4 North 
BOOGER HAS NO MORALS 
..................... ......................... 
WEASEL, YOU'RE A COCKY. SELF­
CENTERED, BASTARDLY-TYPE PEA· 
SON, BUT VA GOTIA LOVE IT. HAVE 
A HAPPY 21ST B·DAY. YONDER DE· 
MANDING ONE 
JIM, FRENCH FRIES? BOBBI 
KELLY, We saw each other at south lunch·on 917. We're both transfers. think you're gorgeous in your leprechaun boxers! PLEASE REPLY! ·M.J. 
BACCHUS BACCHUS Tonight Exec. meeting 3:15pm Chicago Room General meeting 6:00pm Pizza party Walsh basement EVERYONE INVITED! 
................................................................ 
FOUND FOOTBALL TIX 
If you can Identify the row and seat num­ber, they're yours! Hint: Section 34 call Chris at 2264 or 2284 Reward will be accepted I?! 


Monday, September 21, 1987 
Safety 
continued from page 16 
Montgomery's ensuing free kick only traveled to the Spar­tan 46, but the Michigan State defense stuffed the Irish, forc­ing them to punt. 
Try as they might, however, the Spartan defense could not measure up to Notre Dame's "No Name Defense" which is fast losing its anonymity. 
"They're talking about me winning the Reisman," said Brown of the Irish D, "but I think those guys deserve it." 
A fierce pass rush that regis­tered eight sacks and kept Mic­higan State quarterback Bobby McAllister on the run, held the Spartans to 21 yards in net rushing, and caused four turn­overs was the result of a game plan that surprised the Spar­tans, and some of the Irish defenders. 
"They blitzed more than we had ever seen, and it was a good scheme," said Michigan State coach George Perles. "The sacks really are a motivating factor for the other team and it really doesn't do a whole lot for your team. They really take away a lot." 
"All we worked on all week was cutbacks and draws," said linebacker Darrell 'Flash' Gor­don. "We had no idea we were going to blitz this much but it certainly did work well." 
Perhaps the most impressive aspect of the defensive perfor­mance, however, was its abil­ity to keep Reisman hopeful Lorenzo White (51 yards on 19 carries) and McAllister from breaking big plays until the game was out of reach. That containment was an area of concern after Jamie Morris en­really well today,'' said nose tackle Mike Griffin. "We were caught a little out of position a couple times on draws last week, so we were really con­centrated on that aspect in practice this week. We didn't want to over-pursue and we were able to stay and plug things up better.'' 
joyed  some  success  on  draw  
plays last week.  
"We  stayed  in  our  lanes  

Mter Brown's display gave the Irish a 19-0 lead, the defense also got into the scoring column. With the Spartans at their own two-yard line, Ted Fitzgerald and Jeff Kunz hit McAllister and Kunz hung on to score Notre Dame's second safety of the game, and push the lead to 21-0. 
Mter the Irish made it 24-0 with a field goal with eight seconds left in the first half, the defense took over again. Cedric Figaro blindside-shot on McAl­lister caused a fumble that Tom Gorman recovered at the Michigan State 13. 
Anthony Johnson tunneled in from three yards out four plays later to end the Irish scoring on the day. 
A 57-yard touchdown pass from McAllister to Andre Rison with 1:06 left ended Notre Dame's bid for a shutout, but did not dampen the enthusiasm about the performance. 
"We've paid our dues," said co-captain Chuck Lanza. "This isn't luck. We know we're so well-prepared for each game so we have an air of confidence. That's why we feel so good when we step on the field." 
All of which left Holtz with a satisfied smile on his face. 
"This football team has an awful lot of things going for it," he said. 
The Observer 

EXTRA POINTS ... Notre 
Dame's early success hasn't 
gone unnoticed. Pete Williams, 
one of two Orange Bowl repre­
sentatives in the press box for 
Saturday's game said the Irish 
have impressed him. "The 
defense is much better than I 
expected," Williams said. 
"There aren't many teams that 
are 2-0 that have beaten the 
caliber of opponents Notre 
Dame has.'' Williams said rep­
resentatives were also attend­
ing the Clemson-Georgia 
game. . . Brown's two punt 
returns in a game ties an NCAA 
record. Vince McNaly was the 
only other Notre Dame player 
to do it, returning two punts for 
scores against Beloit in 1926. 

Garcia Lane, of Ohio State, was 
the last player to accomplish 
the feat (1983 vs. 
Purdue). 
Saturday's Game 
Michigan State 0 0 0 8 · 8 Notre Dame 19 5 7 0 -31 Scoring NO -Safety, EZOR backs into end zone and downs the ball 
NO -GRADEL, 27 yd. FG 
NO -BROWN 71 yd. punt return (GRADEL kick) NO -BROWN 66 yd. punt return (GRADEL kick) NO -Safety, KUNZ sacks McCALLISTER In end zone 
NO -GRADEL, 37 yd. FG 
NO -JOHNSON 3 yd. run (GRADEL kick) 
MSU -RISON 57 yd. pass from McCAL-LISTER (WILSON pass from McCALLISTER) 
MSU NO First downs 13 15 Rushing attempts 36 50 Net Yards Rushing 21 140 Net Yards Passing 208 112 Passes camp-attempted 10-18 10-19 Had Intercepted 2 0 Total Net Yards 229 252 Fumbles-lost 4-2 1-0 Penalties-yards 4-24 5-45 Punts-average 7-43.1 7-43.1 
Individual Laadara 
RUSHING -Michigan State: White 19-51; McCallister 14-(-39); Notre Dame: Green 17-46; Rice 2-28; Andrysiak 9-22; Johnson 5-13; 
PASSING -Michigan State: McCallister 10­18-2, 208; Notre Dame: Andrysiak 9-17-0, 105; Rice 1-2-0, 7; 
RECEIVING -Michigan State: Rison 5-137; Bouyer 2-28; Notre Dame: Brown 4-72; Green 3-30; Watters 2-10; 
Attendance -59,075 

ZIP 104 AND SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS WELCOME with special gu GREAT WHITE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6 8:00PM NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. RESERVED SEATS $15.00 TICKETS GO ON SALE TODAY!  
TICKET SALE FOR NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS/FACULTY /STAFF WILL TAKE PLACE THIS MONDAY, 9 A.M. AiTHE TICKET WINDOWS LOCATED AT GATE 3 OF THE J.A.C.C. (FIELDHOUSE DOME). LIMIT OF FOUR (4) TICKETS PER PURCHASE. VALID I.D. REQUIRED. NO ASSEMBLY BEFORE 6 A.M., LOTTERY FOR POSITION IN LINE 7 A.M. TO 8 A.M. (SALE FOR THE PUBLIC WILL TAKE PLACE AT 10 OF THE J.A.C.C.  
AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME J.A.C.C. BOX OFFICE ONLY! PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS ZIPI04wzzp_I'M_FOR ZIP 104 ~  


Intensity 
continued from page 16 
was recovered by Tom Gorman of the Irish. The relentlessness of the defense, even until late into the game when the out­come was decided, was ex­tremely impressive. It isn't of­ten that a team with a bona fide Heisman Trophy candidate like White is held to 51 net yards rushing for-the game. Mter two games, Notre Dame has forced 11 turnovers and given up only one: Andrysiak's meaningless end-of -the-half prayer that was picked off last week at Michigan. Does this sound like the squad that dropped five games by a total of 14 points last year? No, this team knows it can win. This team takes the field expecting to come off with a win, not a close game. This team doesn't wrap its arms around you and spin you down on a sack, it drives through you with the in­tention of knocking the ball loose. Darrell "Flash" Gordon and Figaro left no doubt in McAllister's mind that he was sacked after their brutal sacks. The defense is playing with a vengeance. 
But the one area that was es­

pecially noteworthy was the in­
spired play of the Irish special 
teams. Of course, much will b~ written of Tim Brown's blazing speed and ability to cut on a dime without even thinking about slowing down on his punt returns, and deservedly so. Brown is an incredible athlete, but he had to have at least a little blocking to run two punts back for scores. 
Although kicker Ted Gradel m_issed a second-quarter field goal, his kickoffs were more than adequate for a walk-on with two extra-points of expe­rience before this year. The kickoff team didn't allow a run­back of more than 18 yards. Add Grunhard's downing of a punt on the two and Phelan's surprising 47-yard average (no fluke, either-that average was over eight kicks) and the Irish special teams had a heck of a night. 
"They're a great group of guys," Head Coach Lou Holtz responded when asked if he now thinks Notre Dame is a great team. "We have played two . football games and had some good things happen to us. But I think great teams are classified on January 2." 
They've had some good thing happen to them, but the Irish are starting to make some good things happen for themselves, and those things can only lead to more good results. 
Knock on wood. 
Milwaukee Open all wet 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE-A downpour Sunday delayed the finish of the $600,000 Greater Milwaukee Open until Monday at the ear­liest and raised all kinds of water-related questions for the four co-leaders -not to mention tournament officials. 
Dan Pohl, one of the four gol­fers at 15-under par when play was suspended at 3:05 p.m., spoke of the dreaded "mud­caked" golf ball, when a drive lands and then goes nowhere. 
Bill Kratzert, who had to can­cel a scheduled outing to return Monday, suggested that, "if it keeps raining, the bunkers could be like water hazards." 
Wayne Levi mentioned the "fat, squirter type shot" that golfers have been experiencing on the water-soaked, 7,030­yard, par-72 Tuckaway Country Club course. 
Pohl, Kratzert, Levi and Gary Hallberg were at 15­under-par but all had at least 11 holes to complete when play was scheduled to resume 8: 30 

a.m. Monday. The forecast called for possible showers. 
According to tournament of­ficials, the fact that half the golfers -15 of 29 groups to be exact managed to complete the fourth round meant it had to be completed, if not Monday then some other time in the fu­ture. 
"Continuing play Tuesday is not an option," said PGA spokesman Dave Lancer, ex­plaining that contracts for the tournament do not run through Tuesday. 
Pohl said Sunday's first rain delay, which lasted just under 80 minutes, did not hurt his play. 
"I came out after the first delay and got four birdies," he said. "I sat out on the fourth tee for over an hour." 
... 

----~---­
The Observer Monday, September 21 , 1987
NFL Roundup 





Last-minute heroics highlight second week 
Associated Press contributing to the Bears' 20-3 domination of the Colts with 254 Hilger, who completed 20 of 39 Chargers converted two St. victory over Tampa Bay. yards and three touchdown passes, put the Raiders ahead Louis turnovers into 14 points, 
The heroics of Joe Montana Payton's 1-yard dive for a passes. Miami holds the NFL's for good with a 14-yard scoring with Chargers linebacker Billy and Jerry Rice, made possible touchdown gave the 33-year old longest victory string against pass to Dokie Williams at 2:14 Ray Smith producing an inter­by the strange strategy of Cin­veteran the rushing touchdown one team, 14 over the Colts. of the third quarter, shortly ception and a fumble recovery. cinnati Bengals Coach Sam record. But Payton, the NFL's Marino, who has never lost to after Williams recovered Karl But St. Louis quarterback Neil Wyche, gave the San Francisco all-time rushing leader, gained the Colts, twice victimized Bernard's fumble of the Lomax, who completed 32 of 61 49ers a stunning 27-26 victory only 24 yards in 15 carries. Neal rookie safety Freddie Robin­second-half kickoff at the passes for 457 yards and three Sunday on the second -and per­Anderson, who teams with son, who missed tackles at the Detroit 23. The Lions had the touchdowns, rallied his team to haps last -week of the NFL Payton in the Bears' backfield, Indianapolis 15-and 2-yard ball in Raiders territory on 10 all of its points in the second season. made up for that with 115 lines on scoring passes to Mark separate possessions, but could half. 
Rice caught a 25-yard touch­yards, including a 27-yard Clayton and rookie Troy Strad­score only once, on a 2-yard down pass from Montana with touchdown run in the second ford. pass from Chuck Long to Scott Vikings 21 , Rams 16 no time left. The All-Pro wide quarter. Williams following a blocked receiver outjumped rookie cor­Eagles 27, Saints 17 punt. Wade Wilson's third touch­nerback Eric Thomas in the Falcons 21, Redskins 20 down pass of the game, a 41­end zone to make his dramatic Philadelphia's defense Seahawks 43, Chiefs 14 yarder to Hassan Jones with 30 game-winning catch, Mon­A muffed extra point snap forced five turnovers and had seconds remaining, gave Min­tana's third touchdown pass of was the difference as Atlanta three sacks, while Randall John L. Williams ran for 112 nesota its dramatic win. Wil­the game. But it was the Ben­upset Washington. Scott Cunningham passed for two yards, his first 100-yard game son, who is starting in place of gals' poor strategy that cost Campbell passed for two touch­scores. New Orleans, seeking in the NFL, and Dave Krieg the injured Tommy Kramer, them as much as the Montana­downs in his first Atlanta start . its first 2-0 start ever, led 10-0, passed for three touchdowns in drove the Vikings 80 yards to Rice connection. and Gerald Riggs got the win­but a 30-yard field goal by Paul Seattle's romp. Norm Johnson the winning score. He hit Jones 
The Bengals, ahead 26-20 ning TD on a 4-yard run with McFadden and Cunningham's kicked a team-record five field for 20 yards on fourth-and-16 with the ball at their own 45 6:47 remaining. The victory 19-yard touchdown pass to goals, from 34, 25, 46, 27 and 49 from the Minnesota 25 with 1: 10 with 54 seconds to play, had margin came as a result of a Mike Quick and 25-yard pass to yards for Seattle. The Chiefs remaining, then Jones got be­quarterback Boomer Esiason bouncing snap by Jeff Bostic Kenny Jackson triggered the fumbled four times, including hind Los Angeles cornerback run three times, losing 10 yards that couldn't be handled by victory. The Saints were held three times in the third quar­LeRoy Irvin for the touchdown. as the 49ers used their holder Eric Yarber after Wash­to 36 yards on the ground, with ter, when the Seahawks got 20 The Minnesota defense limited timeouts. The Bengals then ington's second TD. Rueben Mayes limited to 20 points. Eric Dickerson to 90 yards on took a delay penalty with six yards on 13 carries. 26 carries. seconds left, putting the ball on Broncos 17, Packers 17 
Chargers 28, Cards 24
the 30. Raiders 27, Lions 7 
But they didn't punt on fourth Denver's Rich Karlis missed down and James Brooks was a 40-yard field goal attempt Rusty Hilger, the Raiders' San Diego built a 28-0 stopped for a 5-yard loss, stop­with 13 seconds left in overtime maligned quarterback, passed halftime lead as Lionel James ping the clock on the exchange after Dennis Smith recovered for 234 yards and one touch­returned a punt 81 yards for a of possession with two seconds a fumble by Kenneth Davis at down and Marcus Allen rushed touchdown and ran seven yards left. the Green Bay 35 with 1:06left. for 79 yards and another score. for another score. The 
Montana lofted the ball to With 1: 15 left in overtime, Rice, who went up and cleanly Packers linebacker Brian caught it in front of Thomas, Noble stopped a Broncos drive 
iC

who had been burned twice in by intercepting John Elway at the game for touchdown the Green Bay 
24 and returning iC 
passes. it 10 yards. But Davis fumbled Know Your Rights! iC 
Ray Wersching's extra point the ball back on the next play. 
iC

gave the 49ers the victory. On Monday night, the New Browns 34, Stealers 1 0 iC
Take a look at the Students' Rights Manual being
England Patriots play at the 
iC

New York Jets in what might Cleveland picked off six 
distributed throughout the dorms this week. Giving a clear 
be the final game of the season. passes, two by Clay Matthews, iC The NFL player's Association who ran 26 yards for his first outline of the rights that Domers have at ND, manual iC has called for a strike begin­NFL touchdown with the first 
also lists the proper procedures to take when accused iC
ning Tuesday because no one. Mike Johnson intercepted agreement has been reached a third-quarter pass on a of an offense. Also available is a listing of South Bend iC 
on a collective bargaining con­strange play in which Pit­iC tract. tsburgh's Louis Lipps dropped lawyers who are willing to work with students at reduced 
iC

the ball but kicked it just before 
Bills 34, Oilers 30 it hit the ground. Johnson rates and information on Pre-Trial Diversion. This list iC caught the rebound and, five 
and information is available through the Judicial iC
The Buffalo Bills also used plays later, Bernie Kosar hit 
iC

some last-minute exploits for a Gerald McNeil for an 11-yard Coordinator in Student Government 34-30 decision over the Houston touchdown. iC 

Oilers. Jim Kelly, who threw for three touchdowns, hit Ron Harmon with a 10-yarder for the winning score with 57 seconds left. Kelly, who com­pleted 26 of 43 passes for 293 yards, moved the Bills 54 yards in 1: 26 before finding Harmon alone in the end zone, capping a rally from a 10-point fourth­quarter deficit. 
Cowboys 16, Giants 14 
The stumbling Giants suf­fered a second straight loss for the first time since 1985 and the Cowboys broke a six-game losing streak, their longest since 1963. Roger Ruzek kicked his third field goal of the game with 5:12 to play, a 28-yarder, to win it. New York helped with five turnovers. 
But the Giants had one final chance to win after stopping Herschel Walker on a fourth­down dive inside the Giants' 1­yard line. With no timeouts remaining, Phil Simms drove the Giants to the Dallas 29, but Allegre was wide left. 
Bears 20, Buccaneers 3 
Walter Payton scored his 107th career touchdown, break­ing Jim Brown's record and 
iC

Dolphins 23, Colts 1 0 
iC 

Dan Marino continued his 
************************ 


FREE 32 oz. SOFT DRINR 

Join us for "MEATBALL MONDAY" You can receive a free large (32 oz.) Soft Drink with the purchase of any Meatbaii Sub. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Monday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
HOWl ADE 818,000FOR COLLEGE 


BY WORKING WEEKENDS." 


When my friends and I graduated from high school, we all took part-time jobs to pay for college. 
They ended up in car washes and hamburger joints, putting in long hours for little pay. 
Not me. My job takes just one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Yet, I'm earning $18,000 for college. 
Because I joined my local Army National Guard. 
They're the people who help our state during emergencies like hurri­canes and floods. They're also an important part of our country's military defense. 
So, since I'm helping them do such an important job, they're helping me make it through school. 
As soon as I finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me a cash bonus of $2,000. Then, under the New GI Bill, I'm getting another $5,000 for tuition and books. 
Not to mention my monthly Army Guard paychecks. They'll add up to more than $11,000 over the six years I'm in the Guard. 
And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay it back-up to $.1,500 a year, plus interest. 
It all adds U{> to $18,000-or more -for college for JUSt a little of my time. And that's a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you. 
THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-638-7600,* OR MAIL THIS COUPON. 
*In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam: 477-9957; Virgin Islands 
(St. Croix): 773-6438; New Jersey: 800-452-5794. In Alaska, consult your local 
..,hone directory. 
c· 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense. 
All rights reserved. 
r------~-------------,
MAIL TO: Anny Nat1onal Guard, P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
~NAWME;-------------------DMDF 
ADDRESS 
CITY/STATE/ZIP 
....-;;AR-;::-;EA-;vCO~DE:--;Pn;;;HO~NE;::-----­
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OCCUPATION STUDENT D HIGH SCHOOL D COLLEGE 
PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE DYES D NO 
BRANCH RANK AFM/MOS 
THE INfORM~TION VOU VOlUNTARILY PROVIDE INCLuDING YOUA SOCIAL S£CURITV NUMBER Will BE USED FOR RECRUITING PUqPQSES ONLY YOUR SOCIAL SECUA1TV ,_,UMBER
LWOlLB<USEOTOAN'LVZERESPONSE TOTHoS•o •urHQRor. OOUSC-OOJ 



ational 
Americans At Their Best. 
US CITIZEN. DYES D NO 
BIRTH DATE 
Nalianal Guard 

J
A J CUC2J Q97NP 



Monday, September 21, 1987

Cardinals extend lead, Blue Jays close gap in East 
Associated Press on nine hits in the six innings pitched a three-hitter to give
Phillies 4, Expos 1 Blue Jays 6, Yankees 2
he worked. Boston a 5-l victory in the ST. LOUIS -John Morris MONTREAL -Kevin Gross Twins 3, Indians 2 NEW YORK -George Bell, opener. 
drove in a career-high four 
homered and pitched a five­Nelson Liriano and Willie Up­runs with two singles and an hitter for 7 1-3 innings, while MINNEAPOLIS Kirby shaw homered, and the Toronto Chisox 5, Mariners 3
infield out and Vince Coleman 
Mike Schmidt set an all-time Puckett hit a two-run homer, Blue Jays beat the New York knocked in three, leading St. record for home runs by a third and Les Straker allowed six Yankees 6-2 Sunday, moving
Louis to a 10-2 victory over the CHICAGO -Carlton Fisk sin­
baseman as the Philadelphia hits in six innings, pacing the within a half game of the Amer­
Chicago Cubs Sunday. gled home Ivan Calderon for
Phillies defeated the Montreal American League West­ican League East lead with a 
his 16th game-winning hit toRight-hander Bob Forsch, 11-Expos 4-1 Sunday. leading Minnesota Twins over split of their four-game series. 

5, weathered Andre Dawson's trigger a four-run fifth inning
Schmidt hit a two-run homer Cleveland 3-2 Sunday. The Blue Jays picked up a full 
as the Chicago White Sox

two-run homer in the first to in the eighth inning, giving him Puckett hit his 26th home run game on the East-leadingwin for the first time in six 526 for his career and 487 as a over the center-field fence off Detroit Tigers, who lost 11-4 to defeated the Seattle Mariners 
starts since Aug. 10. Forsch, 37, 5-3 Sunday.
third baseman, one more than Rich Yett, 3-8, scoring Randy Milwaukee.
allowed three hits and struck 
Eddie Matthews. Bush and boosting the Twins' Bell's homer was his 46th, out eight before leaving with lead to 3-0 in the sixth inning. tying him with Mark McGwire 
two outs in the sixth because of Reds 10, Giants 6 Bush had walked. of Oakland for the major National Leaguea strained groin. 
league lead. 

SAN FRANCISCO -Nick Pirates 9, Mets 8 Esasky's grand slam homer Astros 3, Padres 2 Athletics 7, Royals 6 East w L Pet. GB 
87 61 .588

capped a six-run ninth inning St. Louis 
85 64 .570 2.5
New York

PITTSBURGH Barry rally and lifted the Cincinnati HOUSTON -Pinch-hitter Jim KANSAS CITY Mark Montreal 84 64 .568 3 
75 74 .503 12.5

Bonds tripled and scored on Reds to a 10-6 victory Sunday Pankovits hit a bases-loaded McGwire had four hits, and Philadelphia 
77 .483 15.5
Pittsburgh 72

Andy VanSlyke's sacrifice fly over the San Francisco Giants. single in the ninth to give Hous­Oakland got some help from a Chicago 71 77 .480 16 west
in the 14th inning as the Pit­The Reds, who entered the ton a 3-2 victory over San Diego rare error by Willie Wilson to tsburgh Pirates ralliea from ninth trailing 6-4, snapped the Sunday, snapping a five-game beat the Kansas City Royals 7-6 San Francisco 82 67 .550 
74 75 .497 8
Cincinnati Houston 

four runs behind to hand the Giants' seven-game winning winning streak for the Padres Sunday and sweep their three­
72 77 .483 10 

New York Mets a costly 9-8loss streak and pulled to within and a four-game losing streak game series. Los Angeles 64 85 .430 18 Atlanta 
63 85 .426 18.5

Sunday. eight games of first place. for the Astros. The Athletics now trail the 63 86 .423 19
San Diego

The loss dropped the Mets 2-Mike Scott, 16-12, was the Twins by 3 games with the and-a-half games behind the Brewers 11 , Tigers 4 winner, pitching his eighth Royals six back in the Ameri­National League East-leading complete game of the season, can League West. American LeagueSt. Louis Cardinals. DETROIT -Dale Sveum, allowing four hits while strik­
Robin Yount and Paul Molitor ing out seven and walking Red Sox 5, Orioles 1 Esst 
w L Pet. GB

hit home runs off Jack Morris three. Red Sox 6, Orioles 3 Detroit 90 58 .608 as the Milwaukee Brewers toronto 90 59 .604 .5
Rangers 2, Angels 1 BALTIMORE Todd 82 67 .550 8.5
Milwaukee

Dodgers 5, Braves 3 homered five times to beat the .550 8.5
Benzinger hit a two-run homer New York 82 67 

Detroit Tigers 11-4, averting a Boston 72 76 .486 18
ARLINGTON, Tex.-Darrell on an 0-2 pitch from Tom 63 86 .423 27.5
Baltimore

LOS ANGELES -Ralph sweep of their three-game se­.373
Porter drew a bases-loaded Niedenfuer in the ninth inning Cleveland 56 94 35 
Bryant had three hits, includ­ries. Weal
walk with one out in the lOth of the second game, giving the 
ing a two-run single that high­Morris, 18-9, was in trouble 80 70 .533
inning to force in the winning Boston Red Sox a 6-3 victory Minnesota 
lighted a four-run first inning, from the very first pitch, when Oakland 76 73 .510 3.5 
run, and Steve Howe won in over Baltimore and a sweep of Kansas City 74 76 .493 6 
as the Los Angeles Dodgers he surrendered a single to Texas 73 76 .490 6.5
relief as the Texas Rangers Sunday's double-header. 
70 .467 10

defeated the Atlanta Braves 5-3 Molitor. He gave up six runs, California 80
beat the California Angels 2-1 Dwight Evans hit his 34th Seattle 69 80 .463 10.5Sunday. although only two were earned, Sunday. Chicago 67 82 .450 12.5
homer and Roger Clemens 
CJ 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Garret 
6 Herring 10 Dictator 
12:00 p.m.-1 :00 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies Seminar, Brown 
Bag Luncheon, "Individualism, Interdependence, and the Common Good," by 
14 Valerie Harper
Prof. Charles Wilber, ND Dept. of Economics. Room 112 Law School. 
role 15 Flog 
16 Emanation 17 Tyrannical 19 Medical photo 
1:30 p.m. Tennis NOW vs. Marquette. Courtney Courts. 
3:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. Computer Minicourse, Using the Macintosh Lab. Room 115 
20 Half a fly?
Computing Center. Limit 26. To register, call Betty at 239-5604. 
21 Cattle old style 22 Strangers
3:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. Computer Minicourse, Computing for the Terrified. Room 
24 Map
101 Computing Center. Limit 15. To register call Betty at 239-5604. 
25 Geraint's wife 26 Root used for 
3:33 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Computer Minicourse, Time Sharing Option (TSO). Ter­
soap 
29 Educated 33 Wanderer 34 Dried up 
minal Laboratory, Computing Center. Limit 30. To register call Betty at 239-5604. 
7:00p.m. Right to Life Lecture "Questions and Answers About Abortion," by 
35 City on the Father Burtchaell of Notre Dame. Reception to follow. Montgomery Room, 
Tiber 
36 -and bear It! 37 Step 
LaFortune. 
7:00p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Grand Illusion," directed by 
38 "Of -and
Jean Renoir, France. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Men" 39 lt. city 40 Yield
7:30p.m. Model United Nations Club organizational meeting in 123 Nieuwland. 
41 Stacked 42 Renovates 
9:00p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Le Jour Se Leve," directed 
44 Onagers 
45 Of grand­
parents 46 Dray 48 Petty ruler 51 Excellent 52 Health club 55 Russ. moun­
by Marcel Carne, France. Annenberg Auditorium. 

Dinner Menus 
tain range 56 Calligraphy 59 Aleutian Isle 60 Overdue 61 Vestige 62 Gad
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
63 Quod -dem-
Three Cheese Croissant Fried Chicken 
onstrandum 64 Detection
Honey Glazed Chicken Spaghetti with Meat Sauce 
device
Fried Catfish with Tartar or Marinara Sauce Aptasa Potato 
DOWN 1 Smell -(be
Wet Burrito ·Deli Bar 
suspicious) 2 Sic 3 Lug 4 Altar words 


09/21/87 
5 Laughed 
shrilly 6 Meager 7 Abhor 8 Cuckoo 9 Carafe 
10 Man with the 
right stuff? 11 Certain 12 lr. Island 
group 13 Beams 18 Creek 23 Ignited 24 Heavenly 
model? 25 Uncanny 26 Wrath 27 -Code 
09/Zl/11/ 
28 Leaves out 37 Ground meat 49 Palo -, Cal. 29 Guides dish 50 Toodle-oo 30 Stirs up 41 Mom and Dad 51 Square pillar -.. 31 Host 43 Eggs 52 Burmese tribe 32 Property 46 Sky streaker 53 Type size 
documents 47 Collection of 54 Mimic 34 Building anecdotes 57 Attention material 48 Ger. region 58 Theater sign 
Far Side Gary Larson 



Comics 
Bloom County 
6ro?B~l 
7HIWK5 fOR 1H£ LifT. ZS'I ZS'I 1 5/fY l£tl..tJ 10 l'VA Fe¥? Me 1 
Berke Breathed 
WHf§/?6'5 1He SC!?.IPT? 1HIS !SN'r VeGf/S_. WHF.~'5 1H€ 
SCRIPT.' 
I 
Mark Williams 



Sports
page 16 -·--.......,_........ --,. . . . ~ ..... 
Irish crush Spartans, 31-8, in home opener 
....-.. 
.--
Tim Brown enters the end zone after one of his two touch· downs on punt returns In Saturday's 31·8 win over Mlc· hlgan State. Brown led the Irish attack with 275 all· 
Intensity the key for Notre Dame 
By PETE SKIKO throughout the season, lead a team twenty yards downfield on the punter Sports Writer to a great year. Cases in point: as Tim Brown makes his cut upfield, 
•Tim Grunhard, a center, downs a springing the first of Brown's two 
Knock on wood. The Irish have the 53-yard punt on the MSU two-yard returns for touchdowns. look of a team that can do great line, setting up Notre Dame's second There just seems to be a differentthings. safety of the game. attitude so far this year. It was evi­
Different people probably look at •Vince Phelan, relatively unproven dent last week against Michigan and 
Notre Dame's 31-8 thrashing of Mic­and a serious preseason question even more so Saturday night. The
higan State in different ways. The mark, averages 47 yards a kick and team is playingnational television audience prob­plays a key role in establishing Mic­sound football,ably saw the incredible Tim Brown's higan State's dismal field position 
have gotten away or were challenged NCAA-record two punt returns for throughout the game. in past years are being helq. There 
touchdowns as the deciding factor. •On third and seven, Terry are fewer letdowns and it's showing 
Other tans might have seen the stal­Andrysiak escapes three tacklers in up on the scoreboard. wart defense which forced four turn­the backfield and drags a fourth and On Michigan State's first posses­overs and eight sacks as the key to a half-yard over the first down 
sion of the second half, with Notrethe game. 
marker, allowing a drive which cul­Dame leading 24-0, the Irish defense 
But perhaps the most encouraging minated in a first half-ending field played like it was 
aspects of Saturday night's victory goal to continue. 
same score. Lorenzo White (held to were those that might not have been 
•Notre Dame's first penalty comes 61 yards on 19 carries) was held for 
too visible in the game's final statis­with 7: 35 left in the third quarter, no gain on MSU's first play of the tics. Hustle, discipline, attitude, and after the score was 31-0. The penalty half, and then
the killer instinct played a big part is illegal procedure and costs the blindsided State quarterback Bobby in putting the Irish ahead and Irish six yards. 
McAllister, forcing a fumble which
keeping them ahead. These are char­•Rod West, a linebacker playing on acteristics that can, if maintained the punt return team, is blocking see INTENSITY, page 11 
Soccer team wins two more 
By PETE GEGEN an indirect kick. But the lines­hrje took an indirect kick from Assistant Sports Editor man called off-sides on the stopper Johnny Guignon in the play, negating the goal, and Spartan penalty area and Half th~ time it wasn't pretty, 
keeper Dan Lyons went on to deflected a shot off a Michiganbut the Irrsh soccer team over­
record his third shutout of the State defender into the goal. whelmed Michigan State, 3-1, year. Northwestern fell to 2-3 The Spartans almost tied it
and Northwestern, 5-0, this on the season. 
when forward Chris Koppi
weekend to remain undefeated In the Krause Stadium headed a crossing pass off the on the season. 

dedication game Friday night, near post. Koppi had been left 
midfielder Joe Sternberg gave unmarked on the right side,Sunday the 19th-ranked Irish Notre Dame an early 1-0 lead similar to the goal scored byscored four of their five goals off a corner kick by midfielder Blanchard.
off head balls in the rout of 

Kurt Roemer. That goal and Northwestern. Forward Pat another score in the Northwes­"We only played half a Murphy scored twice from tern game gives Sternberg a game,'' said Irish head coach headers and lifted a perfect team-leading eight goals on the Dennis Grace. "Our team 
corner kick to the forehead of season. defense was disorganized, and stopper Steve LaVigne, who 
some people were taking on a 
scored his second goal of the The Spartans tied the game 
little too much responsibility. 
season off a header. at the 15:21 mark when Jim Except for two chances for Mter scoring two quick goals Blanchard was left 1,mmarked the Spartans, the Irish in the first half, Notre Dame's on the right side and headed 
dominated play in the second 
play slacked off, and Northwes­home a corner kick. 
half, keeping Michigan State on 
tern almost cut the lead to 2-1 The Irish responded a minute when the Wildcats scored off later when midfielder Rolfe Be-see IRISH, page 10 


---------~ ----------------------------------------------­




