----------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~----­
Appalachia -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 123 THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1987 · the independent student newspaper serYing ~otre Dame and Saint ~fa11·'s . 

Alzheimer's disease linked to chromosomal abnormality 
Associated Press same chromosome, will help beads on a string. Normal in­each of 15 Alzheimer's patients judgement and of ability to per­focus future research on the dividuals have two copies of tested. The abnormality did not form routine tasks and loss of 
NEW YORK -A study of chromosome, other scientists each of 22 kinds of appear in 12 normal people, she language skills. Victims even­Alzheimer's disease patients said. chromosomes, plus two said. tually become incapable of has found they carry an extra Dr. Miriam Schweber of the chromosomes that determine The Alzheimer patients did caring for themselves. copy of part of the chromosome Boston University School of sex. not have Down syndrome be­Schweber said the extra linked to Down's syndrome, Medicine, who reported the An extra copy of cause the portion does not ap­chromosome portion was found strengthening the theory that new finding, said it also holds chromosome 21 leads to pear to trigger that condition, not only in six patients who suf­such a defect plays a key role the promise of testing for Down's syndrome, a condition she said. fered an inherited form of the in Alzheimer's, a researcher Alzheimer's before symptoms that causes varying degrees of Alzheimer's disease is a pro­disease, but also in seven who reported Wednesday. appear. But other scientists retardation. gressive, irreversible disorder appeared to have a non­
The report, coming soon said it is too early to evaluate Schweber's research, re­afflicting an estimated 2.5 mil­inherited form. after other researchers showed that potential. ported at the annual meeting lion Americans and killing Ten of the patients had shown that a group of Alzheimer's Chromosomes are threadlike of the American Academy of more than 100,000 a year. onset of symptoms before age patients had an extra copy of molecules in every cell of the Neurology, found an extra copy Symptoms include gradual 65, and the other five after that a particular gene from the body that carry genes like of part of chromosome 21 in memory loss, impairment of age, she said. 

FBI director forgot memo about North 
Associated Press By the time the Meese probe turned into a formal criminal 
WASHINGTON -A justice investigation, on Nov. 26, doc­Department official expressed uments crucial to the inquiry suspicions as early as last Oc­already had been destroyed or tober -nearly a month before altered, according to govern­public disclosure of the Iran­ment investigators. Contra affair -that Lt. Col. Webster made his comments Oliver North eventually could at a Senate Intelligence Com-come under criminal investiga­-mittee hearing on his nomina­tion, FBI director William tion to be head of the CIA. The Webster told Congress on Wed­committee's chairman, Sen. nesday. David Boren, D-Okla., sched­
uled a second day of hearings Webster acknowledged for Thursday, but he and vicereading an Oct. 30 FBI memo chairman William Cohen, R­which outlined speculation by Maine, said they had seen noth­the Justice Department official ing so far that would endanger concerning the activities of Webster's confirmation. 
North, who was laterfired from During Wednesday's tes­his post as a National Security timony, Webster pledged toCouncil aide at the White keep Congress informed of CIAHouse. 

covert activities. He said hold­
But Webster said he had for­ing back information on such gotten about the memo by Nov. matters as the Iran arms deal 21, when Attorney General Ed­-as the Reagan administration
The ObserveriPaul Oeschger 
win Meese III, declining did -violates the spirit of a law Webster's offer of FBI help, un­on the subject, and he said he Senior Nancy Camarote shuts her eyes while 
proaches, many seniors seem to have shut out dertook an informal inquiry would resign rather than goDeanna Pass of Collegiate Reps measures for parts of campus life in anticipation. 

her graduation cap size. As graduation ap-
Changes in pre-registration for SMC courses this fall 
By SANDY CERIMELE this procedure will be the 
Staff Reporter same for Saint Mary's stu­
dents who pre-register for 
Important changes have courses at Notre Dame. 
been announced by Saint Kennedy added that this 
Mary's registrar concerning new procedure will help il­
Notre Dame students who liminate the hassle for stu­
wish to pre-register for dents from both schools. 
courses at Saint Mary's The Saint Mary's Religi­
beginning this fall. ous Studies Department,
"Notre Dame students which currently has the 
will no longer need to come highest enrollment of Notre 
to Saint Mary's gym in order Dame students has made an 
to pre-register," according exception according to the 
to Sister Francesca Ken­Registrar. Notre Dame stu­
nedy, Saint Mary's dents may also pre-register 
Registrar. Kennedy said for Religious Studies 
that all courses can be re­courses in room 172 in 
quested at Stepan Center Madeleva Hall at Saint 
during Notre Dame pre­Mary's from 4 to 6 p.m. on 
registration. 
April 27 and from 4 to 5 p.m. 
Carol Haag, assistant to on April 29. Students may
the registrar, indicated that also pre-register in Room 
the slips will be presented to 340 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
the department heads and during the same times. 
reviewed with the requests Kennedy said that it is not 
from Saint Mary's Students. 
Both women indicated that 
see REGISTER, page 4 
into secret U.S. arms sales to Iran. see WEBSTER, page 6 


Zic named valedictorian for 1987 
By KENDRA MORRILL academic success to "time ment as the key to his stellar 
Staff Reporter management and organization. performance. 
Everything didn't come easy," Besides being an outstanding 
John Zic, of Oak Lawn, Illi­said Zic. ''I just knew exactly student, Zic has also been very nois, has been named the what had to be done." involved with the Notre Dame valedictorian of Notre Dame's Zic said he knew he wanted marching and concert bands Class of 1987. Zic, a science pre­to go pre-med from the start. throughout his college career. professional major in the Col­He said he chose the science He is the percussion section lege of Science, will address the pre-professional program be­leader in the concert band, was 1987 graduating class and au­cause of the opportunity it pro­drum captain during his junior dience at the commencement vides to obtain a well-rounded and senior years in marching excercises on May 17. education. "The University of band, and received the Out­
The valedictorian is chosen Notre Dame is one of a handful standing Senior Marching solely on the basis of highest of universities to offer such a Band Member award last fall. grade point average, said Joe balanced program to science In addition, Zic is a senior peer Conklin of the Public Relations majors," said Zic. advisor for the Freshman Year and Information office at Notre Zic noted that his SATs were of Studies and runs two "Emil Dame. According to Conklin, if "just average" for Notre Dame Review Sessions'' for two or more people were to and he was not a Notre Dame chemistry each week. share the same GPA, there Scholar as an entering fresh­Concerning being named would have to be co­man. He also was not the valedictorian of his graduating valedictorians. valedictorian of Marist High class, Zic said "It hasn't hit me 
In the case of this year's School, from 'which he yet." Zic said he naturally as­graduating class, · Zic alone graduated. (He was the sumed someone else had a 4.0, shares the honor of having the salutatorian, however.) Zic since "two-thirds of graduating highest academic standing in maintains that he does not con­valedictorians probably have a the class. Zic has earned a 3.983 sider himself a genius. "I guess 4.0." He added that maybe it cumulative grade point I just learned how to play the would sink in when the news average in his four years at game quickly," he said. He Notre Dame. He attributes his again stressed time manage-see ZIC, page 5 
Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 2 

~T~h~e~O~b~se~~~e~r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

In Brief 
The Internal Revenue Service provides the wrong answer to nearly one-fourth of the taxpayers who call the agency's toll-~ree t~lepho.ne line& with questions according to congress10nal mveshgators .. IRS empl.oyees gave the wrong answer 22 percent of the h~e when mves­tigators posing as taxpayers called ~RS assi.stance centers and asked 21 typical tax law questions, said the Ge~eral Accounting Office in a report to a House subcommittee. In addition, 15 percent of the answers were correct but incomplete. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
''Juniors : How to Fill Out Your Profile Form'' is the title of a presentation to be given tonight by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services, at 7 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science. Juniors of all majors are welcome. 
-The Observer 
Richard Tillinghast, disti~guished poet, w~l read from his works today at 4:30 p.m. m the Cushwa-Leighton Library, top floor South Lounge. '!he reading is sponsored by the SMC Department of Enghsh.-The Observer 
A Jazz symposium, featuring the six judges for this weekend's Collegiate Jazz Festival, will be held at 2:15p.m. tomorrow in 115 Crowley Hall of Music. A ques­tion and answer session will follow the performance. -The Observer 
"TheBarouque: The Expanding Horizon," a lecture by Dr. Charles Rosenberg, c~airm~n of t~e Depa~tment of Art, Art History, and Design, Will be given tomght at the Annen berg Auditorium of the Snite Museum at 7:30 p.Ip.. Admission is free for students. -The Observer 
Stressed out Seniors are welcome to attend the final segment of ''Transition From Backpack to Briefcase: A Real Life Primer For Graduates." Tonight's program will feature Christine Conway and Rita Donley, psyc­hologists from Notre Dame Counseling Center, speaking on stress during the transition into the working world. T~e program will be held at 7:30p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
''Women at Prayer'' will be the title of the 1987 Madeleva Lecture to be given by Mary Collins, OSB. The lecture will be presented tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. The lecture is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
Two ND alumni, Brigette Goulet, '84, and Mike Baki, '84, have returned from Chile and Africa and will give a presentation and talk at 7 p.m. tonight in the Center for Social Concerns. The program is sponsored by the Holy Cross Associates. -The Observer 
Student Government funding applications are now available for clubs and organizations for 1987-88. In addi­tion, applications are available for club reg~tration, foot­ball concession stands, and LaFortune office space. Ap­plications ate available in the Office of Student Activities, 301 LaFortune, and are due next Wednesday by 4 p.m. 
-The Observer 

Weather 
Spring may be here, finally. To stay. The sun will shine as the temper­ature climbs to 65. Clear and cool Thursday night. Low around 40. Increas­ing clouds and mild Friday. High around 65. 


=~Ihe.~Observer-

Derign Editor--·········· Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Layout .......... Melissa Warnke Derign Auutant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor ....... Kathy Scarbeck Typeaettera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Becky Gunderman Accent Layout ............. Katy Kronenberg 
..............................................Jose Novas Typuts .. _.. _.............._......... _ Colleen Foy Newa Editor ........................ Cathy stacy ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Sporta Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch Ad Derign ....................... David Culligan Viewpoint Copy Editor ......................... Photographer.. .. __ Paul Oeschger Brian Broderick 
Tile Obwner (USPS S99 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obwner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Obsenn is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Voters, not newspapers, should choose candidates 
Chicago politics. 

The combination of these two words evokes Kim scenes of back alley smoke-filled room corrup-Y f 
tion. ura ovac Come on, everyone knows that Chic~go . . 
politics is corrupt. From the Daley machme Assistant Accent Ed1tor 


through the Washington regime, accusations
and mud-slinging have flavored every cam­paign, making them more exciting to watch than the latest episode of "All My Children." 
Chicago newspapers thrive on politics. Itsells newspapers. It breeds controversy. If all of the politically-related articles were removed from recent issues of The Chicago Sun-Times and Tribune, there would hardly be enough news to last one visit to the bathroom. 
But, maybe that's where some of the recent political commentaries belong. 
The Sun-Times has been doing a little mud­slinging of its own. Maybe they didn't find the politics of late to be interesting enough so they created their own story. They asked challenger Ald. Edward Vrdolyak to withdraw from the race. 
I don't know from where they drew their au­thority. But I'm sure I speak for the majority of readers when I say that I don't like being told what to think. By asking Vrdolyak to withdraw from the race, they were telling voters not to vote for him. The least they could have done was to be subtle about their bias. 
What ever happened to fair journalism that afforded each candidate an equal chance? Ob­viously, the Sun-Times has no trust in the opinions of the voters or they would never have demanded such an absurd action. 
Why didn't they ask the other challengers, Hynes and Haider, to drop out, too, since they did not have Washington's majority? The Sun­Times, in this hasty action, ignored one of the fundamentals of the American democratic sys­tem: a government chosen by the people. 
When straight news is combined with biased editorial comment on the front page of a major newspaper, the reader is being brainwashed with opinion instead of receiving the facts he was expecting to receive. 
It is one thing to publish an editorial on the editorial page that blatantly says, ''This is one man's opinion." It is entirely different to demand that a candidate drop out of a mayoral race in the headlines. 
Perhaps the Sun-Times has suffered through being number two behind the Tribune for too long. Maybe they thought a little muckraking would sell a lot of papers. They were probably right. But what happened to their journalistic 

-----------------­


L..S 
conscience? They have ignored it in favor of selling more papers and making more money. 
The headlines on Monday's Sun-Times predicted a landslide victory for Harold Wash­ington. Now the newspaper has become a sooth­sayer. I thought that went out with gypsys and fortunetellers. The Sun-Times' predictions were realized in a victory that was not a landslide as they said, but in a victory nonethe­less. 
This is a classic example of the self -fulfilling prophesy. If the Sun-Times tells its readers there will be a landslide victory, many voters will be psyched out and think that there is no need to vote because a handful of votes don't matter in a landslide. They might just have well told their readers to vote for the incumbent because they thought he had the majority. 
The individual is lost in the majority. Instead of reviewing the qualifications and integrity of a candidate, the only thing that becomes im­portant is who is going to win. And how can a challenger have a chance when a major news­paper is biased in their editorials and report­ing? 
Responsible journalism seems to have taken a backseat to muckraking. If this continues, it won't be long before they will succeed in con­trolling our votes, dollars, and minds. 

"~o~ ~Oil a~~ OCCW!iottg." 
Comein and Browse 3l7 Lincolnway l3l~3354 


The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 3 


U.S. soldier defected because of army abuse 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -An American sol­dier who defected to the Soviet Union says he did it because he was abused in the U.S. army and wanted "a chance to be a human being," the official news agency Tass said Wed­nesday. 
Wade Roberts said he "loved his people" and denied his desertion was treason, Tass re­ported. The agency said he was interviewed at a Moscow hotel, but it did not say which one or when. 
It was the first Soviet news report about the American since Kremlin officials an­nounced last week that Roberts had defected and Soviet aut­horities granted asylum to the soldier and a West German wo­man. 
The U.S. army has confirmed that a Pvt. 2 Wade Roberts was declared absent without leave March 2 from his army unit 45 miles northeast of Frankfurt, West Germany. 
It has not commented on So­viet reports of the defection, the first of an American soldier to the Soviet Union since the Vietnam war. 
According to Tass, Roberts gave a scathing account of his time in the Army. Itquoted Ms. Neumann as saying the Army had jailed him in a disciplinary case. 
Roberts suffered from "ar­bitrary actions in their most debased forms," the news agency said. "Commanders there get sadistic satisfaction from insults, ill-treatment and physical abuse." 
"Human dignity and human rights are flouted there at every turn, men are turned into robots," it said. "Americans are slapped on their faces and then called in a high-flown manner to defend democracy.'' 



This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
$ 
the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes.

c•ooGREYHOUND
#:IWArdleavethedrivingto us: 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
M 1a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. Noother discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and 8\~ for travd on G~hound Lines,~~participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 211187 through 4130187. Offer limned. Not val..id mCanada. l'l Nlfl t.reyhound Lmes, Inc.
Inc., 

Soviet claims bugging is an accepted 'way of life' 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Alleged bugging of the new U.S. Em­bassy in Moscow and a spy-sex situation at the old embassy there have been blown out of proportion by the U.S. govern­ment, according to a Soviet diplomat. 
"It's common knowledge 
that everyone is bugging every­
one," said Pavel Pavlov, a 
member of the Soviet Embassy 
in Washington. "In diplomatic 
circles, it is accepted as a way 
of life, and I do not know what 
the uproar is about." 
Pavlov, who is lecturing at 
Indiana University-Purdue 
University at Indianapolis this 
week, made his comments at a 
news conference Tuesday. 
He said he was not impressed 
by the furor over an alleged 
sex-spy operation involving 
Marine guards at the U.S. Em­
bassy in Moscow. 
"Such things happen," Pav­
lov said. "Those are the facts 
of life. I don't know what you 
can do about them." 
But, he added, so much at­
tention on the incidents 
detracts from more important 
issues such as nuclear arms 
agreements. 
The United States and Soviet 
Union "should start dealing 
with the most important prob­
lems. A lot can be done to ease 
tensions -not only in principle, 
but in material ways," Pavlov 
said. "Then we can move into 
those gray areas and what 
seem now to be hopeless ones." 
He said his country has adopted a more open attitude and a new viewpoint under General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, but only time will tell if progress will be made in negotiations. 
''There are many signs that relations are improving. But I don't know if all these externals mean a deep and profound change in attitudes. I think any profound changes are yet to be seen in the future." 
He said the Reagan adminis­tration "keeps putting new ob­stacles in the way of agree­ments, and we simply can't prolong these tensions forever." 
BR TC:ETTE C:OUU:T (NO 'R4) 
llolv Cross Associate 
:1 ml 
MTKE BAKl (NO '8~) 
Overseas l.ay Minister 
have return<>cl from 
rmu: 
ANil AFRICA 
TilEY WILT. CTVE fl PRF.SENTATTON I~ITII SJ.TOES AT TilE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ON TllliRSOAY F.VENTN\., 7 pm APRIL 9th 

1....----------_____. 

The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 4 
----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



College Briefs '. 
NationalCondomWeekwasrecently "It's a class project." Yeah, that's observed on campuses across the country. the ticket. A Chico State University honors At Columbia University, a student-run student tried to convince the judge that 14 grocery store distributed free condoms as marijuana plants he was growing in his home part of its "Be Mine --Safely" program. Co­were part of a class project. He said he was lumbia students can also buy condoms from tracking each plant's production and profit vending machines in men's and women's potential. He was sentenced to 270 days in restrooms. -The Observer jail and was fined $1320. -The Observer 
It's Gotta Be Pasta: Students at Parental permission slips to drink Okanagan College in Canada are building in dormitories is the idea behind an opinion bridges-spaghetti bridges. The annual con­by the Iowa attorney general to allow people test offers $1000 in cash prizes. Expert pasta under 21 to drink alcohol. the law currently bridge builders estimate that it takes at least allows 19-and 20-year olds to drink in private five hours and a lot of glue to construct a homes --with parental approval--and offi­good bridge. -The Observer cials believe this should be extended to in­
clude dorms. -The Observer
"Assassin," banned at Notre Dame, seems to be dying out on other campuses as "Gay and Lesbian Jean Day" at well. Students who were hired as campus the University of California-Santa Barbara representatives at the 45 schools that were where students wear blue jeans to show sup­targeted for the game say that the company port of homosexuality -was a success, or­that runs the game has failed to pay them ganizers said. Surveys showed almost one­as promised and does not answer the firm's third of the students wore jeans. up from 15 800 number. It would appear that "Assassin" percent last year. -The Observer is about to be killed. -The Observer 
A ban on interracial dating that 
"Jaws" was shown to students at the goes back thirty years at Pillsbury Baptist University of Rochester. The twist was that College, was recently lifted after black stu­the movie-goers were sitting on inner tubes dents filed complaints with the State Depar­in a campus swimming pool invested with tment of Human Rights. The college also inflatable sharks. Prior to that, the campus agreed to drop the requirement stating that Tom Fetton protects his face while seeking knowledge, and a movies committee had handed out styrofoam students needed parental letters of permis­tan, as he studies at the War Memorial. Wednesday's beautiful planes for a viewing of "Top Gun." sion in order to date someone of another race. weather brought out the best in many students. 
•


Register • •
.• I .•
continuedfrom page 1 • • 
necessary for them to do so and • • it will not ensure placement. • • ''The chairman of the Religious • • Studies Department wanted to • • accomodate Notre Dame stu­• • dents who wish to take courses • • at Saint Mary's and our depart­ments are coordinate," she • • said. • • 
According to Haag, the ••• •••registration slip requests the specification of a home address • • and phone number as well as • • class status of the student. She said that the home address is • • for notification during summer • • break and the class year is im­• • portant in the placement deci­sion of the department heads. • • 
"Our intent in the future is • • to notify students before sum­• • mer break, although because of • • the lack of time between pre­• • registration and finals this se­• • mester, we will be notifying students in the summer, as • ® • soon as possible," said Haag. • • 
She also said that although the class status of the student 
~ • Free. In 30 minutes or $3 off. ~ •
is included for seniority, the new system was designed to in­• • spire the departments to offer • How do you get a custom-made, CaII US • 277 8700 • 
: freshly-baked pizza delivered in 30 • -:
more sections of popular 
• minutes or less? Just pick up the Clock Tower Square, 51400 US 31 North •
courses to accommodate the students' requests. : phoneandcaiiDomino'sPizza! 277-2151 232-2997 ! According to Kennedy, in the 
: You'll get a piping hot pizza, Plaza 23 Center, 1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. :past Notre Dame students were : covered with our special sauce, •
required to wait in line at the 
• bubbling with Real® cheese, and 233_3133 : 
designated time with Saint 
Ill

: smothered with your favorite 1428 Calvert Street DOMINO'S : Mary's students in order to pre­• toppings. And you'll get it in • PIZZA • register at Angela Athletic : 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! 289-7100 . DELIVERS. : Facility. : Call Domino's Pizza today. 4333 West Western • · • FREE. : 
Notre Dame and Saint • • Mary's students then went to 
: r-------------, r·------------, r--------------, :
the department tables to re­: Dinner for 16" Pizza Only T~ick Crust :
1 1 1 1 1 1
quest slots in the courses of 
: I Four I 1 $7.99 I I P1zza 1 :
their choice. When the course was filled, it was closed at pre­: : $10.99 : : AsklortheMonday : : $6.00 : : registration, and students were : 1 A.sk for the D1nncr 1 I Madness Special and 1 Ask lor the Thursday 1 ! 
receive one 16'' one-I
forced to pursue other options. • 1 For Four and rece1ve a I I Special and get a 12" • : 16" two-topping pizza I topping PIZZa for only I extra-thick crust pizza I •
Kennedy said that the office 
• I plus four 12 oz. cans of I I $7.99. Good on Monday I I with extra cheese and I :of the Registrar initiated the • I Coke•foronly$10.99. I I onlyOnecouponper 1 I ')'ourchoiceofpepperoni I • discussion for change and met : I One coupon per order. I I order. Not vahd with any I I or sausage for only I : with Saint Mary's administra­• I Not valid with any other I other offer. Tax not I $6.00. Good on Ttlurs-• 
• offer. Tax not Included. I included. Good only at I days only. No coupon I •
tors and Notre Dame's 
! I Good on~¥ allocations I I locations listed. I I necessary. Tax not I :
Registrar to compile a proce­
• I listed. Exp1res: 4 19 87. I I Expires 4!19/87 1 I included. Good at I • dure to make things run more : I Fast, Free Delivery·· I I Fast, Free Delivery·· 1 I locations listed. I : 
smoothly than in the past. The system affects students 



~ : : : : : Ex~<es. : ~ 
at Notre Dame from many de­partments. Kennedy said that of the 541 courses that enroll 
Notre Dame students, many of ~ Li •I'· ......~ ·!; . Ji i :.' ____ . , . i .L: ~.:,. ~. i :
· 

these are in the Sociology and 
• Llmlled delivery area Our dnvers carry less !han $20 00 c 1987 Domn10 s Pozl'a Inc •
Business departments. . -------------L-------------J ···-·•••-•---J . 
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 5 
Two Notre Dame seniors awarded Mellon Fellowships 
By JOHN FLORY Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame seniors Megan Went and John Staud have been named winners of the Andrew 

W. Mellon Fellowship, an award given to outstanding col­lege students in the area of the humanities. 
The Mellon Fellowship was established five years ago by the Andrew W. Mellon Founda­tion to encourage careers in higher education. It presents winners with a cash stipend covering tuition and fees for postgraduate study at any uni­versity in the United States or Canada. Went and Staud have each been awarded $9750 for graduate school, an increase from past awards. 
The Fellowship was awarded to 122 college students this year, chosen from among 1772 applicants from 57 universities in the United States and Canada. 
Staud, a chemical engineer­ing and English major, said he learned of the award while as­king one of his professors, Thomas Werge of the English department, about graduate schools last summer. Werge nominated Staud for the fellow­ship and after submitting his name, Staud was sent an appli­cation package. 

The application required a 1000-word personal statement, college transcripts, two letters of recommendation, and a pref­erence form. In the preference form, Staud was asked to name three to five graduate schools he would like to attend and why. 
Staud applied for the fellow­ship in October, meeting the application deadline of Dec. 8. In February, he was sent a let­ter of invitation to a regional interview in Ann Arbor, Mich. Interviewed by a panel of five or six, he was later informed by letter that his candidacy was being reviewed by a central committee and that he was a semifinalist. 
By mid-March, Staud was "80 percent sure" of winning thP fPllowship, having learned that he was one of 155 semi­finalists competing for 122 fel­lowships. 
Went found out about the fel­lowship in a letter sent by Nat­han Hatch, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, in May and September of last year. 
An art history major, Went was nominated by Charles Rosenberg, professor of art his­tory. Like Staud, Went ap­peared before a panel of five interviewers in February. 
Went was also aware of being 
one  of  the  155 semifinalists  
being  considered  for  the  
award.  

Asked about his future plans, Staud says he is considering Northwestern, Penn, and Cor­nell, but favors Michigan, and will continue his studies in En­glish. 

Went said she is considering Columbia, and will likely pursue a five-year program in Art History leading to a Ph.D. for which the fellowship would pay the first two years. 
Staud stressed the qualifica­tions for the fellowship as aca­
demic  achievement,  serious­ 
ness,  and  a  strong  
"commitment  to  the  

humanities." Went added that careers in teaching are empha­sized by the Mellon Fellowship. 
Last year there were also two winners from Notre Dame. They were English major Bar­bara Rodrigues and Philoso­phy major James Louis. In 1985, there were three winners from Notre Dame, said Hatch, adding that in each of the preceeding four years, there has been a Fellow named from Notre Dame. 

SMC Professor Shannon honored 
By CATHY STACY Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's College Profes­sor William Shannon has recently been chosen the 1987 Indiana Women in Business Advocate for his continuous support of female business owners. 
In addition to teaching in the department of business admin­istration and economics at Saint Mary's, Shannon works to promote business ownership by women in the community. 
Shannon is presently researching new ways for uni­versities to better prepare wo­men for careers in business and serving as faculty advisor for the Entrepreneur's Club. 
To make women aware of the many opportunities open to 

Clubs and Organizations 
Applications are now available for: 
1. 
Student Government Funding for 1987-88 

2. 
Club Registration 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 

4. 
Office Space in LaFortune 


Pick applications in Student Activities Office, 301 
LaFortune. 

Applications are due Wednesday, April 15 at 4:00 pm. 
them and to promote business leadership Shannon has con­ducted several seminars for members of the community. He has also invited successful women to to speak about their careers, and has counseled prospective business owners in Indiana. 
"Bill Shannon is truly deserving of the (award). The prospects of women-owned business in Indiana have been enormously enhanced as a result of Professor Shannon's efforts," said Robert General, district director of the Indiana Office of the Small Business Administration. 
Zic 
continuedfrom page 1 
broke. 
Along with Zic, the seniors whose outstanding academic performances have earned them the highest G PAs in their respective colleges are: Karen 
His individual counseling of women business owners in the area and his recommendations of people to the South Bend Tribune have been evidence of his "dedicated and personal support" said Carolyn Ander­son, director of the South Bend Small Business Development Center, who nominated Shan­non for the award. 
Shannon will also chair the Womens' Business Initiative Conference this May at Saint Mary's. The conference has a twofold purpose: to support wo­men's business ownership and promote business as a career option for women. 
Blackburn from South Bend, Indiana, a Program of Liberal Studies major in the College of Arts and Letters; Eric Scheuermann of Stowe, Ver­mont, an accounting major in the College of Business; and Thomas Wernimont of Wood­bury, Minnesota, an electrical engineering major in the Col­lege of Engineering. 
ND AVE APTS Now Renting for Fall 


Completely Furnished, Balconies, 
Off Street Parking, Laundry, 
On Site Management & 
Maintenance. 
All Deluxe Features. 
Ask about our Special 
Summer Rates 
Office at 820 ND AVE. 
234-6647 
Protected b Pinkerton Securi 

lOUIS: 

Prices good through April 12
M.-TH. 9 am-10 pm 

City Wide Li uors 
Fri. & Sat. 

Liquor

I 
(2 miM from c:.mpua. 9 am-11 pm 3825 North Grape Road, lishawa a272-2274 
1.75 I 
..____...__COI_m_•_d_Edllon & Gripe) 

Largest selection of corked wines in area 
Silvercrest Gin ... $7.99 Call us on your SYR parties for price quotes. 
1.75 I

BEER (cases) 
Glenmora Vodka...$7.99 
Pabst (24 cans) ...... $6.99 

Wine 

1 I Lite (24 cans) ...... $7.99 4 pak 
Shamoff Vodka ... $4.99 Bartles & Jaymes ............. $2.99 Special Export (24 bot) ... $8.99 
41 1.75 I Carlo Rossi. ................. $4.99 DeK. Peachtree Schnapps...$1 0.99 
Bud Quarts (case) ...... $10.99 

1.75 I 
Stroh's 30 pak ...... $8.99 

Old Thompson (blend) ... $9.99 

Earthquake rocks central Nicaragua 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA,-A strong earthquake rocked central Nicaragua for about 35 seconds on Wednesday, but authorities said they had no immediate reports of major damage or casualties. 
The government's seis­mological institute said it had no immediate reading on the quake, but the state radio, the Voice of Nicaragua, described it "as quite big." 
The tremor was recorded by 

U.S. geological Survey earthquake monitors in Golden, Colo., at a preliminary magnitude of 6.2 on the richter scale. It occurred at 11:43 a.m. 
A news bulletin read over Managua radio said authorities had no immediate reports of anyone being killed or hurt, adding there were no reports of major damage. 
The U.S. geological Survey said the earthquake occurred off the Pacific coast of Nicaragua, centered about 60 miles southwest of Managua, and was reportedly felt in nor­thern Costa Rica. 
Myra Guillen, a secretary at The Associated Press bureau in Managua, described the earthquake as "quite, quite big." She said it started at 11: 44 
a.m. and lasted about 35 seconds. 


Webster 
continuedfrom page 1 
along with such a situation as CIA director. 
He also said he would not be a member of the president's Cabinet, unlike former CIA director William Casey, on grounds that the agency should be a gatherer of intelligence rather than an advocate for any particular policy. 
As for the Meese investiga­tion, senators asked Webster if, in retrospect, it would have been better if the attorney gen­eral had called in the FBI in the first place. 
Webster said that had he thought at the time there might be criminal activity inolved, he "absolutely" would have got­ten the FBI involved. 
However, he asked, ''Could the FBI agents have done a bet­ter job of conducting such an inquiry or looking for materi­als? I'm not sure I'm in a po­sition to answer that." 

Third marine charged 

-----~~--­
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987-page 6 

Latest cancer research 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Nearly a quarter of patients with advanced can­cer show some response to an experimental therapy that turns their own blood cells into cancer hunters, and this could be "the dawn of a new ap­proach to treating cancer," a researcher says. 
The treatment uses interleukin-2, a natural disease-fighting chemical, to prime the body's defenses against cancer. The latest results essentially confirm con­troversial and highly publicized findings that gal-
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A third Marine who worked as a secur­ity guard in Moscow and Leningrad and in the U.S. em­bassy in Rome has been ar­rested on suspicion of espionage, causing American officials to broaden their inves­tigations into security breaches in American diplomatic missions. 
Sgt. John Joseph Weirick, 26, of Eureka, Calif., was arrested Tuesday night and held in the brig at Camp Pendleton, Calif., said Robert Sims, chief Defense Department spokes­man. He is suspected of espionage while working as a security guard at the American consulate in Leningrad in 1981 and 1982, Sims said. 
Meantime, as American offi­cials sought to measure the damage caused by the infiltra­tion of American diplomatic missions by KGB agents and electronic eavesdropping devices, there were these developments: 
•FBI director William Webster acknowledged at a 
Senate hearing on his nomina­tion to head the CIA that thevanized the attention of cancer Soviets use their new hilltopvictims and their families embassy complex in Washing­ton to intercept U.S. telephone communications. But he said he was unable to say "how much damage they are doing." 
.Secretary of State George P. Shultz told reporters that Soviet eavesdropping at the U.S. em­bassy in Moscow had cast ''a heavy shadow" over the talks he will hold next week in the Soviet capital. He said he in­tended to tell the Soviets "that they can't expect to continue to create a hostile environment for our people overseas without cost to themselves." 
•Soviet 
Deputy Foreign Min­ister Vladimir Petrovsky said the U.S. charges that the KGB had bugged the new U.S. em­bassy in Moscow are "dirty fabrications" intended to spoil Shultz's trip. He accused Pres­ident Reagan of making "hos­tile remarks." 

•In 
Congress, bills were intro­duced to require the Soviets to abandon their new Washington embassy site and negotiate a new agreement with the United States. Sen. William Roth, R­Del., said he believed the new 


U.S. embassy in Moscow would have to be torn down because it is so heavily bugged. 
when they were announced a year and a half ago. 

The research found that this 
SAB

approach, known as adoptive immunotherapy, can at least temporarily turn back cancer 
;-~~ ___CHICAGO 
that eludes all standard treat­
·~~~---%~_~/ BUS
ments. In some cases patients have complete remissions. Dr. Vincent DeVita Jr., head 
--~---~;it TRIP of the National Cancer In­stitute, said the new approach appears to be the most promis­
Saturday April 11 
ing treatment available for 
Busses leave the main circle at noon,
spreading kidney cancer and malignant melanoma, a lethal 
leave the Windy City at 1:00 a.m. skin disease. 
Cost: Only $4.00 
~=~~w~~~··~~~)CF=~~a~c====~t~c====~w~====MM==~~~··t 
Sign-up and bring payment to SAB office,
4 

2nd floor LaFortune 
The Saint Mary's Department of English 
j 

presents 
Tile [)iitill<)Liiillecl l>()et 



What if you
ll?iit;llle~rcl TilIIiilll911tlCJi1l Reading from his works 

don't get into 
April 9 at 4:30 pm 

the schOol of 
Cushwa..Leighton Library Top Floor (2M) 

your choice?
South Lounge 
..... 

Ofcourse, you may get into some other 
school.but why settle?Prepare for the admissions 
exam yocire fadng-be it SAT, LSAT, GMAT, 
GRE, MCAT, or others -with the best test prep company. Stanley H. Kaplan.
Holy Cross Fathers 
For nearly 50 years, Kaplan's test-taking tech­
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know if I have d vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and fonnation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
niques have prepared over one million students, 
For personal, confidential 
boosting their scoring power and test confidence. 
interview with no obligation, 
So call Kaplan. Why go tojust any school, when please ..,rite or calf a vocation 
you can go to the one you want? director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 



IKAPLAN 
STANUY H.lAPI.lN EDUCATlOfW QNTER lTD.
For appointment. call between 
THE WORLD'S LEADING
8:30am & 4:30pm 219~239·6385 
TEST PREP ORGANIZATION 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-413.5 
\'b1 
q\\q~"{\

-:tCLASSES 
..r~~·· ~~ 

*INDEPE~DENT STUDY *NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS ~~~ 
Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. 
*TRANSFER DISCOUNTS! 
Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 





"ieVV~_O_i_n__l _______________
Th-ursda-y,A-pril9_,198-7-p-age7 

Church must recognize women's true role 
Being a Christian, I believe that my ultimate purpose and goal is to love God with all my heart, mind and soul and to love others as myself -even those who have committed grotesque sins against me and those whom I love. St. Paul has taught me how difficult it is to reach this degree of spiritual maturity. You see, I cannot find it in my heart to love this man, Pa,ul, of the New Testament. 
Chenoa Seaboy 
guest column 
When I think about the grotesqueness of the sin that he committed against me and all women, I can feel only dis­gust and hatred toward the man. His words about women reek of vanity and demonstrate the cruel degradation of other human beings which is the inevi­table outcome whenever any particular person, race or sex tries to establish their own superiority over all other people, races, or the opposite sex. Here are just some of his cruelest words: "But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman ... a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from, man. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake (1 Co­rinthians 11 :3-9). '' 
Jesus instructed His followers, "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you <Luke 6:31)." Suppose Paul were alive today and I asked him the following questions: Paul, would you like to be considered as being inher­ently inferior to more than half of the world's population simply because of the sex that you were born with? Paul, if you were to marry, would you like to be told by your spouse that you are to be "subject" to her in all things? Would you like to be considered as being the glory of your opposite sex, rather than the image and glory of God, simply be­cause you were born a man? 

It is obvious that his answer to these questions and all similar questions would be, "No." Clearly, then, Paul has not only violated one of our Savior's most important teachings, but has also taught others to violate it. 
But the real grotesqueness of Paul's sin consists in the fact that he thought 
Doonesbu 
and uttered such cruel words after he, himself, had received tremendous mercy and kindness from God; the fact that he, who had once so zealously per­secuted many courageous Christian women, still tried to establish his supe­riority and authority over them and all women after being so generously con­verted by God. 
Perhap's Paul's little thoughts about women wouldn't invoke in me so much anger and disgust and sadness if there weren't so many male religous "leaders" even today who share his at­titude toward women. One Sunday last summer I visited a fundamentalist Pen­tecostal Church service. A male preac­her was givng what I thought was a rather good sermon he said, "So, wo­men, go home to your husbands and say 'teach me'." I was nauseated. Don't get me wrong. I have nothing against women learning from men. But I do have something against men thinking they can't or shouldn't be taught by and 
"Paul, would you like to be considered as being in­herently inferior to more 
than  half  the  world's  
population  simply  
because  of  the  sex  that  

you were born with?" 

learn from women. 
Later, the women who had invited me to the service asked me how I liked it. So I told them, and it tore my heart out to hear them trying to convince me that women really are inferior to men and that we should be subject to them, etc. It was like hearing a black person trying to convince another black person that blacks really are inferior to whites and that they should be subject to whites, etc. Or like hearing a women who has just been beaten by her hus­band trying to convince her horrified children that she deserved the beating. I was too torn apart to feel anger. That night I simply cried. 
However, it isn't only fundamentalist churches that are like this. The Catholic Church is a prime example. This view of women is implicit in the fact that women aren't allowed to become car­dinals, priests, bishops and popes. In their pastoral letter on the U.S. eco­nomy, the U.S. Catholic Bishops con­demn social injustice and degrading sit-
I 7HOlk5HT(]JH!N6 HERE
/JJHtN I IVAtEATCITY 

,46/J.!N MIN!J
Cf){..L,&613, 1 USEO 7lJ HOIJJ 
OFFMf
COM£ HePE 7lJ ROSE-N/C£. 
PRO!J­
i LANIJALL THE TIM£l 
. I I 
/.CM5. 
uations of unemployment and homelessness. But considering the way they treat and obviously view women, I just cannot believe that they are really bothered by the fact tha people are just being degraded and treated unjustly. As Jesus said, "You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye (Luke: 42)." When I hear the Catholic leaders asking for forgiveness from all women and that Catholic women are now allowed to fill all the positions that men can fill -then I will believe that injustice and degradation of human beings truly bothers them. If the Church leaders simply allow Catholic women to enter these positions of ser­vice without apologizing and asking for forgiveness, I will remain unconvinced. They will be like the white restaurant owner who now allows blacks only be­cause he or she has been forced to. 
Jesus told the apostles, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exer­cise authority over them. It is not so among you, but whoever wishes to be­come great among you shall be your servant (Matthew: 20: 25-27)." Clearly, this teaching has been ignored by most Christian men throughout the centuries since Christ -including St. Paul. 
As usual, our world is in desperate need of a spiritual renewal. I am con­
vinced that in order for this to happen, 
Christians from all demoninations 
must unite in what is perhaps the one 
thing that we all agree on -that our high­
est calling and most basic duty as 
Christians is to love God with all our 
heart, mind and soul, and to love others 
as ourselves. 
Christians do not need more morals and doctrines and rules and regulations added to the useless pile that already exists. We need love -the kind that can pierce the darkest evil. But I can assure you that there can be no Christian unity so long as Christian men share Paul's view of women. You see, when someone truly loves another as their own self, that person does to the other just as they would have the other do to them. True lovers do not seek to dominate and rule over others. 
John Ruskin once said, "Pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes." Many Christian men from all denominations will be making a great mistake if they do not change the way they view and treat women soon. And I am certain that, pride will be at the bottom of it . 
In the meantime, I will be praying for the grace to forgive and love St. Paul, and I ask for your prayers for this as well. 
Chenoa Seaboy is a sophomore philos­ophy major. 


Trudeau 
I THINK rM 
YOU [)()NT
GOING708C 
HAV&TO
!NIJICTW. 
\ MAK&SMAU. TAtK., OUCKS. 
Quote of the day 

"Failure is an event, never a per­son." 
William D. Brown "Welcome Stress" 


General Board 
'l'he Observer 
Edttor·in·Chief ....... . ....... Kevin Becker Busmess Manager........................... Brian P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre DDme, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managmg Editor .. . Mark Pankowski Advertismg Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ........ . .. Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...... . .. Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Vtewpomt Edttor .. ... Chrrs Murphy Protects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Ed1tor ........ . . Denn1s Corrigan Systems Manager ........................... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Edttor ........ . M1chael Naughton Controller . ..................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editorral Board Samt Mary's Edttor . Marrlyn Benchik Graphtc Arts Manager . . ................. Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ..... . Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
---~--­




Accent 

f 
f Giving others a 
spring brea
) 
t 
t 
~ 
i{ 
l I 
l 
f 
S 
~ 
PeTE GEGEN were motivated by the desire palachia was all about, the features writer to work with the people of students turned to the Appalachia and learn more people who have lived there eventy-one year old about the problems they all their lives. The most 
Myrtle Skeans lives in a face. valuable lessons they region of the United States Two orientation sessions learned came from those known as Appalachia. Ali her held prior to the trip showed people, and Myrtle Skeans life she has lived in this them how the coal industry by far made the biggest im­area, which is known affected the region. Moun­pression on the group. for its coal and Its poverty. tains are destroyed by strip­"She is just a powerhouse 
But Myrtle Skeans knows it mining techniques, and of energy," says Jim Pernas, better as her home, and as floods are caused by altera­a senior from Medford, N.J. a place to take pride in. tions in rivers by the com-"She is so gifted a storytel­"All her children have ler. She vividly remembers
It amazes me that a

moved out of the area," says so many different things 
Christine Lopach, a Notre lady who didn't about her life, and it's such 
Dame sophomore from Mis­a rich life from the close­

soula, Mont. who is one of even finish the ness in her family. 
eleven students who spent eighth grade had "It amazes me that a lady their spring break working who didn't even finish the with the people in the Ap­such a great eighth grade knew so much 
palachian mountains of eas­and had such a great
memory, such great
tern Kentucky. 'They live in memory, such great intelli­
Utah now, and a lot of them intelligence too--it's gence too--it's a different 
want her to move out there. kind of intelligence."
a different kind of
But she won't move, be­Skeans lives outside Mar­
cause her home is where intelligence. tin in a place called Wildcat 
her ties are." Holler (don't yell, just hol­


Lopach and the rest of the panies. The money ler). The students first met A bus from the Mountain Christian Acad students came into contact generated by coal stays in her at the local parish's St. with the people of Appalac­the hands of a few and Patrick's Day party where yet she didn't have a lot," tire holler at one time, but hia while working for the usually leaves the region, she out-danced even the stu­says Sharon Young, a soph­eventually he traded the Christian Appalachian Project because many companies dents. Later in the week she omore from Pittsburgh. land for "a gun and shells." (CAP), an eccumenical or­are based outside the state. invited them to her house Skeans was also generous ganization devoted to hel­Prepared with the facts, for dinner where she cooked in her story telling, recount­"You got an Idea of what it ping the people of this the group of eleven stu­a delicious meal of chicken ing the histories of the was like to live there all your region. It was first organized dents, led by Grace Hall as­and dumplings, potato people and the land. One life," says Christine Lopach, in 1964 by Father Ralph sistant rector Joe McKenna, salad, fried apples, green such account told the story a sophomore from Missoula, Belting, who wanted to help traveled to an eastern Ken­beans, biscuits, and home­of her uncle who lived in Mont. the people who had little op­tucky town called Martin, made apple and chocolate Buck's Branch, the next hol­
portunity due to a lack of which is about two hours pies. "She was so generous, ler over. He owned that en-To experience the way of life of the people in Appalac­hia was one of the goals set by the students. They worked on several projects coordinated by CAP, such as seed distribution, home repair, visits to the elderly, and infant care. In this way they came into contact with people of all ages. 
Two students received a close look at the homelife of the people. Donna Stlglmeier, a senior from Williamsville, N.Y., and Mic­helle Bertsch, a sophomore from Akron, Ohio, spent one afternoon visiting the elder­ly. At one stop they met two sisters, Marie and Georgie, who lived next door to each other. 
"They were lonely even though they lived next door to each other, and Marie's son and grandchildren live nearby," says Stiglmeler. "Marie was sick. unkempt, and suffering from em­physema from smoking for 45 years, but still she 

The Observe~hrlstlne LOpach

Senior Jim Pemas celebrates St. Patrick's Day In Appalachia with 71-year-old Myrtle Skeans. seemed to have a good atti-




Student vol 
east-southeast of Lexington. Even with tt:te facts, though, they did not know what to expect from the people of Appalachia or from CAP once they arrived there. 
"I really didn't know what Appalachia was, but every­one I talked to who went down said they really had a great time," says Chris Zim­

money and jobs. merman, a senior from 
The students volunteered Hartland, Wis., "I decided on their own through the that I wanted to try it. And I Center of Social Concerns, discovered that it wasn't as which helps coordinate the bad as I thought it would trips for both fall and spring be." breaks. Most of the students In order to learn what Ap­

Thursday April 9, 1987 -page 8 -9 
k 
unteers help out in Appalachia 

~my in the mountains of Appalachia near Martin, Kentucky. 
tude. They were really friendly." 
"The people were genuinely honest," adds Bertsch. "One of them 
pointed at Donna and said, 'Oh, that redhead over there, she just smiles all the time.· She just came right out and said it. no qualms or inhibi­tions." 
Honesty and straightfor­wardness is characteristic not only of the adults, but of the youth of Appalachia as well. Marc Haygood, a senior from Chicago, spent one af­ternoon working at the youth center in Martin. "I thought they would be kind of timid," says Haygood, "But they just ran up to me and asked me, 'What is your name?' and grabbed my hand and said, 'Hey, let's play pool!' " 
Haygood, along with Peggy Woodward, a junior from Miami. and Missy Hol­land, a sophomore from Tiverton, R.I., also worked with infants at the day care center. "At first the infants were kind of apprehensive when I arrived," he says, "But by the end of the day they really got attached to uS; and some of them cried when we left." Haygood also was attached, and as a souveneir of his work he now possesses a photo of three of the infants. 
Not all of the jobs involved directly working with the people. The purpose ofjobs such as seed distribution and home repair was to help people help themselves, the basic philosophy under which CAP operates. For ex­ample, Pernas, Young and I spent one day on the home repair crew, working with four of the permanent 
I thought they would be kind of timid, but they
grabbed my hand and said, 'Hey, let's play pool!' 
workers of CAP on an elderly lady's house in Buck Springs, another holler. We stripped and painted all day long. nearly finishing in time to go back to the house for dinner. Not only did we help this lady, but we also saw first-hand an example of the living conditions in Appalac­hia. 
It should be noted that all the things the group did and experienced would not have been possible If it weren't for the group of permanent volunteers who work for CAP. Many of them have just gotten out of college and have donated up to a year of their time to working in the mountains. 
One volunteer by the name of Kevin took the stu­dents to the areas off the main roads to give them a closer look at the way of life in Appalachia. Many houses they drove past were run­down and littered with trash around them. And to the students who believed that the people of Appalachia took pride in their land, these houses were a disturb­ing sight. 
"It's bad that people have to live like that," says Lopach. "We walked off this one road, and all this trash was just left there as if 
someone else would take 
care of it." 

"I think it's because they don't really have the gar­bage collection," says Stiglmeier. "What are they going to do with It? The ap­pearance isn't that great, but are you going to fault them? It isn't vegetables or food; it was cars and stoves. I talked to the permanent volunteers about it, and they said the same." 
The permanent volunteers are there not only to work, but also to educate groups of students on Appalachia and help make the experi­ence worthwhile, to make it have a lasting impression on the students. And through their guidance, as well as the work experince and the interaction with the people of Appalachia, spring break '87 is one experience the eleven students from Notre Dame won't forget. 


Few of the more priviledged people live in private residences. Within the heart of the city, 80% of the population live in common housing. Each family has its own room and corridor, but kitchen and bathroom facilities are shared with other residents, perhaps three other families. If someone over the age of 18 wishes to buy an apartment, possibly after waiting one year and having to prove how the money was obtained, an apart­ment with one room, a kitchen, one corridor and a bathroom will cost about $12,000. A similar three-room apartment would follow at approximately $37,000. 
When a couple gets married, each person receives approximately $200 from the government, but should they divorce, each must pay the government a fee of $320. There is a 40% divorce rate among couples who have been married for at least three years. If a father who has been divorced has one child, 25% of his salary must go towards child support, and this percentage increases with the number of children. In most cases the mothers receive custody unless they have drug. alcohol, or other problems which would hinder the quality of child raising. 
According to our tour guide, alcohol abuse in the Soviet Union has diminished. Citizens can still buy alcohol between 2 and 7 p.m. "After about three to four hours in line one may get vodka, otherwise wine," the guide explains. State-owned bars do exist, but they don't offer any alcohol. In restaurants one person may purchase 100 grams of alcohol. Not many people frequent restaurants, however, because an evening may cost the equivalent of between $16 to $24. 
Our guide Leonard explained that "now all magazines, newspapers, and even the theater criticize day-to-day Soviet life." Changes are said to be occurring In social life but not in food or clothing. He seemed to express hope about Oorbachev's new policy of sponsoring private enterprise, such as shops and restaurants, which will be put to the test starting the first of May. 
As for the few Soviet citizens I saw, they seemed to be content. It Is true they have not much In the material sense. Their clothes are of cheap quality and are very expensive. A set of men's boxers and pajama shirt cost about $60, and women's shoes can run from $160 on up. 
The government takes care of everything for the people. They have jobs, and there are state-owned stores and forms of entertainment. "A model city," Leonard said of Moscow with a smirk on his face, "There is no unemploy­ment or people living in the streets," 
Life in Moscow, socialist life, seemed to me to be, quite simply, existence. Food is bought because people need to be nourished, clothes are bought because people are cold and need to clothe their bodies, work obligations are fulfilled because they must be. The people did seem content, but there was a spirit a vlvacitie, something missing. 
On a visit to an art museum I spent some time studying the art works but more time studying the people. Families mingled, they had smiles on their faces, and fathers held their little girls' hands. In the Impressionist section, one mother In her fur hat and snow boots talked to her son about each work, showed him the details up close, and then backed away to show him how all of the dans blended together. It was as precious as the works them­selves. 
1 am still asking myself what life is really like there, if the people are happy. Is their present form of socialist government acceptable? Is it the system they desire? 
When I asked Leonard if the Soviet people are generally happy, content. and pleased with their government he froze up, turned his head away, and said, "No statistics." I asked, "But what do you think?" He looked me in the eye and held my glance for a moment as if he wanted to answer, wanted to tell me what he thought. He shook his head then, as if to shake off the thought and repeatd, "No statistics." 

_____,__________________...,...____________________ 
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 10 
Men's tennis team shows grace under pressure in 6-3 win 

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team was strong under pressure Tuesday, winning three of four matches that went the full three sets while defeat­ing Bowling Green, 6-3. 
"We played well," said Head Coach Tom Fallon. "It was nice to have won the close matches this time." 
Irish number-one singles player Tim Carr won his match in three sets, taking the first set from Bowling Green's Rick Boysen, 6-4, then dropping the second, 1-6. Carr and Boysen battled to a tie-breaker in the third, with Carr coming out on top, 7-6. 
Brian Kalbas, the number­two man for Notre Dame, also went the distance, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. 
Dan Walsh won the third three-set match for the Irish by following the pattern set by his teammates. Walsh won the first set, 6-3, and dropped the second, 3-6, before beating Bowling Green's Mike Cansfield in the third, 6-4. 
Irish fifth man Mike Wallace had little trouble in his second meet back from a shoulder in­jury, winning in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. 
Teammates Dave Reiter and Paul Daggs suffered losses to their Bowling Green oppo­nents. Reiter lost, 6-2, 7-6, in the number-three spot, and Daggs went to a third set tie­breaker before losing, 6-2, 4-6, 7-6. 
In doubles action, the Irish took two of three matches, with Carr and Reiter winning in the number-one spot, 7-5, 6-3. · Teammates Walsh and Daggs had an easier time, 6-4, 6-2, in the second match. Irish number-three pair of Wallace and Sean O'Brien lost in two, 7-5, 6-4. 
"Maybe it was the good wea­ther," said Fallon of his team's overall performance. "It had been a while since we'd played outside.'' 

The Irish hope the good wea­ther and the good play continue this weekend as they host Eas­tern Michigan on Sunday. Notre Dame is undefeated against their next opponent, holding a 16-0 record dating back to 1970. 
"The  Eastern  Michigan  
team  is  a  lot  like  Bowling  
Green,"  said  Fallon.  "We  
ought  to  be looking  at  more  

close matches on Sunday." 
n.oe..w. Notre Dame off1ce, located on the thud floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center. accepts classafied adver'lasmg from 10 am until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsel•• Samt Mcuy's office. located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center. accepts classifieds from 12 30 p rn until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day class1f1eds IS 3 p rn All class1f1eds must be prepaid, either in person or by ma1l. The ch.irge ,., 10 cents per five


Classifieds 
characters per day 
'•. 
l I.  \ NOTICES ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciafl1>sychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a ch11d's needs and can provide a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect (212) 724-7942.  Houses For Rent-3 and 4 bedroom homes lor summer and next school year. Clean and furnished. Less than 1 mile from campus. Call Lennie at 234-7650. House available June 1st for long-term lease. $40C»no. 277-7121 before 9pm FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277­3684-288-0955 87-88.4 BEDROOM CARPETED. 282­2881  DESPERATE FOR A RIDE TO BALL STATE or Muncie area THIS WEEKEND. Will help pay for gas. Pluse cell liz at 284-4206. HEADING EAST ON 80-90 TOLL: I need a ride to Angola,In or ride to Lansing,Mi­Mar16,th.Can leave anytime.Call Missy284-5486.$$$ Desperate: We need hot floor formal dates for this Saturday. Call any room in 5C.  HOT ICE HOT ICE HOT ICE April 8-10 noon Haggar Center, SMC BE THERE Need ride to Indiana University -Bloom1ngton weekend of Apr. 10. Call Miriam at 2687. Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dam&St. Mary's College Box 194. Notre Dame, IN 46556 Scott Dupree's Top 10 Motor Oils &  ATTENTION SOCIAL COMMIS­SIONERS The ONLY DJs THAT MAT­TER are graduating!! You have only 4 weeks lell of the best music on campus. Don't mess with bands and don't be fooled by 1mitalions. there is only 1 ONLY DJs THAT MATTER CALL NOW!! PAT 277-3687 DON 283­3675 TITO 277-0973 CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP THIS SATURDAY  "I love the smell of waxer in the morning. It smells l1ke . v1ctory." -MP at 5 a.m. Dramfinger Let Lennert Dave Lennert "w1den your vocabulary" Saturday, Bond will demon­strate prowess w1th his power rod. The Walther PPK J01n the ranks of Honeychile. Mary Good­ntght. Sollta~re. K•ssy Suzuki, and the enchanttng Ms. P Galore In an evening for Her MaJesty's Service  
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406  WANTED  II~_F_O_R_SA_LE____.J  Telecopier Uses No. 4 -Valvoline No. 3 -Get latest on the Dean  CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP ONLY $4 ONLY $4 CHICAGO TRIP APRIL 11 LEAVE AT  THE DRAIN AND BOND AN EVENING OF LIVING DAYLIGHTS. AND MUCH. MUCH MORE Don·t m1ss out on the Dram bash of the  
PRC>-TYPE Quality work, word processing availability, reasonable $. 277·5833. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Wordproceulng 277-8131  1....------------' Need ride to CINCI this weekend. Call Joe 1725 CHICAGO-BOUND GRADS!!! Female Roommate needed. 2 Br11 bath. Lincoln Park apt. June 1st. For more info: call Pam (312)348-6688,SMC '86  '76 FORD GRANADA LOW MILES. GREAT HWY PERFORMANCE. BEST OFFER. CALL TIM-x2777 or x1207 ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER (I'M GRADUATING). CORRECTABLE HARDLY USED. BEST OFFER CALL TIM-~2777, x1207 Round trip ticket to D.C.$100-Easter Call Tash at 277 5626  SMC-ND LONDON-ROME SUMMER PROGRAMS Beginning May 20 Organizational Meeting April 13, 7:00 pm 349 Madeleva Hall Vlu Pictures Available for Information call Prot. A.A. Bleck 284-4460(otflce) 272-3726(home)  NOON SIGN UP 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. SAB OFFICE-TILLFRI BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK BADIN SPIRIT WEEK 22 CAVEGODS'!!! 22 CAVEGODS''''22 CAVEGODSI!I! SAT AT THEO'S  year Please come as your favorite Bond char­acter Dr. No. Goldfinger. Erma Blount, Quarrel Felix LMer. Orax. Odd1ob. Mr. Big, Tee Hee Ask any Oramhead for details Brought to you From The Drain, With Love CLASS OF 1 988  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  GOING TO PERDUE? TWO STUDENTS NEED RIDE TOfROM LAFAYETTE EASTER WEEKEND PLEASE CALL LAURE£2769  FOR SALE: THE LOFT TO END ALL LO"S  SENIOR FORMAL CANDIDS ON DISPLAY: MONDAY-FRIDAY SMC.HCC  SMILE DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE AREA, HAVE A FULL­TIME JOB, AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WOULD BE A LONG-TERM  COME  WVFI ICE CREAM ICE CREAM WVFI CLASS OF 1988 FOR ICE CREAM TODAY 4-6  
UNIVERSITY RESUME Professional Resumes Student Rates Near the Mall 272-6336 HELP! Need ride to & from MPLS, MN for Easter. Will share expenses. Call Faris at 1873.  The Easter Beagle hides my eggs in Crandall Park, not Leeper Park Help me et to Youngstown, OH to lind them. I would like a ride there and back, will share tho usual. and can leave 4115. If you can help. call Laura at 272-6014. I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE HELP!!! X1549  Called "the second floor" by its current owner. This loft has everything. A sideraillo keep you from falling down, a steel ladder to keep you going up, a shelf up top to hold your clock, candle, etc. Must see to believe, but if you're inter­ested call 284-5125 and ask for Gertie.  2-5 ND,LAFORTUNE 5:30-8:30 P.M. WE WANT GORGAR TO RUN U.M.O.C  FOR  ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. THE URGE! at CHEERS THR-SAT PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS LaFortune Lobby 7:00 Thursday Apnl 9  FIELDHOUSE MALL "' JUNIORS JEREMIAH SWEENEYS HAPPY HOUR. FRIDAY 4-7. BE THERE 111 ATTENTION ALL CLEVELAND SCUM KIRBY AND THE TWINS SHALL DOM­INATE ETERNAL LOVE. MINNETONKA P S · HOWS THE BURNING RIVER THESE DAYS?  
I LOST/FOUND Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3-26 at the post office at approx1mately 10:45 a.m. If found, please call Tim at x4073. KEYS AND KEY CHAIN LOST SATUR­DAY NIGHT (3-3007) ON REX STREET, NO AVENUE, OR AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4249!!!  Desperately Seeking Grad. Tics. If You Think You Might Have Extras Please Call Joe a £1737. Thanks. 2 RIDERS TO SYRACUSE. NY FOR EASTER. Share expenses-tlriving. Call Amy 283-3723 Need ride to BOSTON EASTER BRK. Call 284-5459 NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO TUESDAY, APRIL 14. WILL SHARE EXPENSES.  81' OMN1,4DR.,LOW MILES. AUTO TRANS,AIR, CALL 234-3792. HOME FOR EASTER Roundtrip airline t1cket Chicago-Syracuse 4'16 (6 30pm)-4'20(3:00pm) $99 or best ofter (3 1 2)973-7235(eve) (312)750-5 1 26  Mike "GORGAR" Gurdak for U.M.O.C. !I! GARGORgargor GARGORgargor GAR­GORgargor GARGORgargor GARGOR· gargor GARGOR gargor GARGORgar­gor GARGORgargor GARGORgargor GARGORgargor GARGORgargor  ...hot 1ce and wondrous strange snow... an anthology of Shakespeare's sonnets. scenes. and songs TODAY. TOMOR· ROW. MONDAY-12:15PM. HaggerCen­ter. SMC. SUNDAY-700pm. DRUIDS. UNITE. Elect Archdru1d as UMOC DRUIDS ARE TACKY... sponsored by the Society aga1nst Hooded Lunatics a mysterious observer  DEAR SHORT PERSON FROM SYRACUSE. TOO BAD ABOUT THE ORANGEMEN HA HA. TONY SAYS THIS IS INFANTILE DRIVEL. SO I WILL SHUT UP NOW. LOVE. THE FOREIGN POLICY YAHWEH DAN GROODY AND ED LANGLOIS HERES TO A GREAT EVENING· MOTTO DANCE TILL YOU DROP" LOVE. MAUREEN & MARIA  
PLEASE HELP!!! I ESPECIALLY NEED THE KEYS!!! Loat In Bookstore Game White London Fog jacket at Stepan on 4-2. If found, please call Pete at 3234 or 3926. I still have not located my Rolex Watch, or my high school class ring--Detroit Catholic Central, blue stone, gold ring. The ring has a lot of value as any class nng does. If you have it, or know some­one who does, please contact me or the rector of Flanner. No questions will be asked. The inscription inside is my full name. -Eric £1078  CALL MAUREEN AT 4281. DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE? I'M NEW TO THE SOUTH BEND AREA AND HAVE A FULL TIME JOB AND I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE. THIS WILL BE A LONG-TERM ARRANGEMENT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 282-3727. Despeately need nde to NY!NJ, leaving 4'16 and returning 4'21. Please call Scott at 3175. Need ride to Dead show on April tO. Call Russ at 4666. Bass player so•Jght for rock and roll band. Preferably underclassman. Musical inter­ TICKETS SIX U2 TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER OVER $50 Call Chad after 6 at 272-8414 DO YOU NEED MONEY? GOOD .. I NEED GRADUATION TIX! CALL DIANNE AT 2617. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Need one graduation ticket. I am gett1ng 4. but I have 2 parents and 3 brothers and sisters. Can't leave my little sister at home. Please call DON at 3675 Will Pay $$  Hey, I put ads in here all last week asking for the return of my Levis Jeans Jacket wh1ch was taken from a Lewis party last weekend. and what do I get? No response, that's what I get. I hope the concerned party realizes the weather isn't going to warm up until my jacket is returned, so call Paul at 2287 and I'll let Spring beg1n. No questions asked. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM"  The event you've all been waiting for--­The Irish Spring Runs are coming! (3 & 6 milers) Spring Runs are com1ng! Runs are com1ng! com1ng' com1ng' com1ng 1 Sun. APR 12th at tPM --Sign up at NVA CHRIS LUCEY: Have you found your pants yet? You've got a fine postenor STEPHANIE TOLSTEDT: Apnl 10. It'S Lewis' last SYR. I'm not going. but that doesn't mean you ci<n't Sheila P.S. Keep practicing that foot-work. IGUANA FOR UMOC IGUANA FOR UMOC IGUANA FOR UMOC  MACBETH MACBETH T1ckets for MACBETH are now on sale at the Wash1ngton Hallt1cket office noon­S PM. weekdays Get your t1ckets now' FRIDAY NIGHT! FRIDAY NIGHT ! FRIDAY NIGHT! Rock and Roll with THE BOTTOM LINE  
LOST:  20-inch  gold  chain  on  Stepan  ests  include:  Who,  U2, Kinks,  Cars,  PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  at  
Courts last Wednesday, 4-1 during Bookstore game.lf found, please call Vin at £.2159. FOUND: ONE BLACK FUTURA DIGITAL WATCH. FOUND IN STEPAN FIELD. PLEASE CALL £2873 TO IDENTIFY.  Police, Stones, Beatles, Van Halen, Rush. Zeppelin. Call Pete at 4644 or Kurt at 3175 for more information. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Counselors. 2te, Coed, sleepaway camp, Massachusetts Berkshires, WSI, arts&crafts, tennis, all land and water  Need Graduation Tix--2 Do not need to be together. Will Pay $$ I am desperate Call MIKE at 3640 PERSONALS  PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL All MAJORS WELCOME. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: "HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE  BOND IS BACK! Every Bond. Bond-woman. and arch­enemy w1ll be found th1s Saturday at The Drain --It'll be the biggest and best Bond adventure yet. Starring Lennert ... Dave Lennert  The Alumn1-Senior Club. FRIDAY!!!!!!! Oh. My God... S1obha•1 got a 2!!! JC -branng 11 on a Saturday night  
You borrowed my calculator in the ter­minal room at the computer building and did'nt return it. call Mathew at 232-3575 Lost. One stone Indian elephant statue,  sports, gymnastics. drama. pianoplay for shows. judo, photography, dance, com­puters, nature, wilderness, model rock­etry, guitar, radio, video,archery, year­book, woodworking, RN and typists.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL.  Well, Beth, it's been three days Gett1ng ancy yet? -Aingbearer  Chns· 1ce cream--never out of s•ght dances and a red Porsche too part1es where we chase my friends at Campus View PoloCalv1n-what are we to do?  
and four T1me-L1fe cookbooks. 234-9648, or leave at 226 Decio. LOST: LIGHT BROWN LEATHER WAL­LET, POSSIBLY LEFT IN SOH, PLEASE CALL MICHAEL MORAN £.2199, REWARD! LOST:Faded Guess Jean Jacket call Jose xt865. FOR RENTI I  Write:Camp Emerson. 5 Brassie Rd. Eastchester, NY 10707 or call 9141779­9406. Here lor the summer and need a place to stay? I need one female roomate to share Turtle Creek apt. Call SMC-5239 if interested. Ryder Truck Inc. 2715 N. Bendix. South Bend Two part time positions open for work1ng in the rental dept. good com­unication sk1llst>ffice profes­sionalismtontract skills required. Excel­lent paY'20-35 hr&Wk. great opportunilyo'expenence for a college stu­ 1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or IHH 1 car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available for all US sUites. LARGEST selection of CliM.1onarch Notes in Michianal Bu)I'Sell---textbooks $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 Are you going to be here for SUMMER SCHOOL??? If so, The Observer needs your help in producing some summer issues of the newspaper.  All MAJORS WELCOME. Need a ride to Indiana University this weekend? Call Miriam at 2687. Guitarist looking to form a rock band All spots available except drummer Call Andy Therber at 283-3039 Well, STANTON, first you go and censor someone's classisfied. then you write a column on killing oft moles. Having a good week. aren't we?  Pat & John,NYC Stanners: Dinner? When? Put your $ where your mouth IS Siobhan Kerne W.--e When are you gOing to VISit? Huh? m CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP THIS SATURDAY CHICAGO TRIP CHICAGO TRIP ONLY $4 ONLY $4 APRIL 11. LEAVE AT NOON  sw1mm1ng and playing tenms-rm getting addicted to you Silting m LaFortune. while we both cram for tests just remember, nght now u r the best tl'lanks for your lnendsh1p & the good t1mes too I can·t wa1t for the weekend. rust because of you' P S Buena suerte on your orgo test Love, SB HONEY. The mght we met is a night I'll never forget We talked in the hall then you said you'd give me a call. Time went  
6  bedroom  4-6  students  $400'500  &  dent. Taking applications now. Call 277­ The JObs are vaned and, if you are Inter­ NO Crew Invitational Regatta. Apnl 11,  SIGN  UP 2ND FLOOR  LAFORTUNE.  by, but not to cry. for though it was late.  
utilities. Secunty system 234 6688  3550, ask for Ed Norkus.  ested in newspaper training in your spare  Come suoport your favorite oarsman  SAB OFFICE-TILL FRI  we f1nally went on a date. The cards. the  
time. call The Observer offices and ask  part1es. long talks on lhe phone: The nick·  
SUM  STOR:all  belomngs(1ncl  MARQUETTE  NEED  RIDE  FOR  for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker.  SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  names.  the hug chant. and tho> cham­ 
lur)saf&'secure Bill M.2327416  EASTER. CALL ROB-1821  The Observer  Casey  Kasem  is  here  to  start  the  HAPPY  BIRTHDAY  JOEL  FOX  !!  19  pagne for two. all made me realize I was  
and  countdown: "Coming in at number 38 th1s  YEARS  AGO  YOU  BROUGHT  A  crazy lor you' Ever since then, I've been  
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N D CALL 683­ Need ride to Columbus, Oh10 for Easter Break. W111ing to help pay for gas. Please  Spec1al OlympiCS NEEDS YOU!!!  week is a date straight out of the Spring soundtrack . . Thursday Apnl 9" 38 Days  COUPLE GREAT JOY. 11 WEEKS AGO YOU BROUGHT ME YOUR SAME HAP­ on cloud mne. and let me tell you that's no hnelllllll Happy Ann1versary Elabe 1 - 
8889  call Pete at 4644.  left 38 days left 38 days left  PINESS  THANK YOU I LOVE YOU.  your Baby Doll  

The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 11 
Belles drop twinbill 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team was swept in a doubleheader by Val­paraiso, 5-3, 11-3, on Tues­day. 
Trish Tierney went one­for-three with one RBI in the first game, while Dawn Kon­tek also went one-for-three at the plate. 
A three-run rally in the sixth inning gave the Belle's hopes for a comeback in the seventh, but they were un­able to score. 
The Belles were hitting the ball well, but unfortunately right at the tough Valparaiso fielders. 
In the second game, Dawn Brohman found the hole in the Valparaiso outfield and slammed a home run to right-center field. 
The home run was one of her two hits and two RBis. 
Senior Kris Pantelleria ripped four hits in as many at bats, including a bunt­single. Martha Judge also contributed one hit to the the Belles' effort. 
Pitcher Liz Pokora was unable to complete the game because of a muscle spasm and was replaced by Colleen Murphy. 
The Belles travel to IUPUI today to face Hanover Col­lege. Their next home game will be on Aprilll, when they play host to St. Francis. 
I I I f • I

-Faculty, Staff and Students are invited to 
A PASSOVER MEAL 
~ 
FRI., APRIL 1 0 6:30 pm 
CBF Campus House. 19525 PendJe 
This will be a unique Jewish Passover, conducted by Tom & Deb Lowenhar, who will give a fascinating explanation of how Christ is represented in this tradition. No charge, but space is limited. Call 277-8471 for reservations. Rides provided. Spon­sored by Campus Bible Fellowship. 
----------------------------------------------J 

NL West 
continuedfrompage 16 
Speaking ofDodger Blue, Los Angeles has been the focus of certain colors, namely black and white, as General Manager AI Campanis resigned over ra­cial comments he made on Monday night. 
The Dodgers will be trying to aviod the disabled list this year, now that manager Tommy Lasorda has his star left fielder Pedro Guerrero back from a knee injury. 
A youth movement has given the Cincinnati Reds the most preseason hype of any of the NL West teams. Eric Davis is being heralded as baseball's top all-around player, and fresh new names such as Barry Larkin and and Kal Daniels are expected to give the Reds the edge this year. 
But I don't buy it. The pitch­ing staff isn't quite as strong, and the biggest question mark is Mario Soto, who has a 5-10 record and 4.71 ERA last year, though granted he did have shoulder problems. 
Injuries appear to be the key in the division this season. The San Francisco Giants will count on three pitchers coming back from injuries-Atlee Ham­maker, Roger Mason and Jim Gott. 

FOR OUR 
SPECIAL 

CAR SALE! 
• 
Eighteen local auto dealers with over 300 new and used cars and· trucks 

• 
Notre Dame ACC 

• 
No admission charge 

• 
Wed., April 8, 5:00 PM -8:00 PM Thurs., April 9, 10:00 AM -8:00 PM Fri., April 10, 10:00 AM -5:00 PM 

• 
All makes and models to choose from 

• 
Special rates...8.24% variable and 9.24% fixed A. P.R. 

• 
On the spot financing available from the 1st Source Bank Loan Specialists 


~source
-.aank 



Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have a mandatory meeting Monday, April13, at 7 p.m. in LaFor­tune Little Theatre. Referee shirts, whistles, rules and schedules will be distributed. For more information, call Warren Berry at 283-1206. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is still looking for more paid referees. Anyone interested should contact Warren at 283-1206 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team broke its eight-game losing streak with a 20-3 win over the Univer­sity of Illinois-Chicago. The Irish sent 16 batters to the plate and scored 10 runs in the ninth inning. Seven Irish players had at least two hits. Mike Coffey got the win. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball Players can find the tournament schedule on the wall outside the An Tostal office after noon today. The game will start Saturday, April 11. Call Michelle Gund at 284-4344 for more information. -The Ob­server 
TheSaintMary'stennisteamdefeatedValparaiso yesterday, 9-0. Jennifer Block defeated Heidi Bussewitz, 6-3,6-2; Kim Drahota defeated Dina Holst, 7-5, 6-3; and Charlene Szajko defeated Jennifer Spauchin, 6-0, 6-0, in the top three singles spots. In doubles, Elizabeth Heinz and Block defeated Busselwitz and Holst, 6-2, 6-3. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules can be picked up today between 3 and 5 p.m. at the An Tostal office, second floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
In fact its hard to get a handle on just how good the Giants will be this season. Already Roger Craig's team has dumped San Diego twice, and the Giants could make it a four-way battle in the division. 
The San Diego Padres have a new manager in Larry Bowa and are so young that people are saying that this team will be great in a few years. That's fine, but I'm only looking at this season. 
And the Atlanta Braves have a new look with a brand-new uniform design and the loss of third baseman Bob Horner. I hope manager Chuck Tanner has gotten used to riding the bottom of divisions because this should be his fourth straight season in the cellar. 
Obviously the Padres and the Braves are my final two picks for the bottom. But what about the top? The Dodgers have won every odd year this decade, but the streak stops here. And even though there hasn't been con­secutive championships in thiS" division since 1978, Houston will end that streak. How 'bout them 'stros! 
ZenithOpen House Sale. 
Itbeats full price. 

Especially when you can save big on a Zenith Z-148 Desktop PC: 
• 
Compatibility with virtually all IBM PC~ software 

• 
MS-DOS-the system that takes you from college to career 

• 
256K of RAM-expandable to 640K on main board 

• 
Up to 720K of floppy disk storage 

• 
Dual speed processing that offers a response time up to 60% faster than the IBM PC 

• 
The ability to support most peripherals right out of the box 

• 
And the 20 Megabyte Hard Disk version offers increased storage and expandability in a low-cost PC. 


Dual Drive 
Special Student Pnce 
$799.00 * 
Hard Di8k Spec1al Student Pnce 
$1,199.00 * 

Ask about the Special Student Pricing on our other exciting Zenith Personal Computers and Monitors! 
Save on all our Zenith PCs during the Open House Sale at: 
Date: April 9, 1987 Time: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Place: Computer Center-Demo Room Contact: Lisa Hines 
239-5153 
Askabout ourZenith Data Systems Credit Card. 

aJTC)IAir., .... -""'-... 
II al'f 12·,...,., penod f>nces $UbtOCf 
· r.tnlcr i(leaal--IQ "ttudl!d !llllllliy'"' "'ll"Ce> 
llf<Ch;oso5 IITW,111111Ch eoc.a.s1 
to chanQe -naiiCe 
--l>y!lll.Oilts,iarulyanll 
;lai!ICJiholf-use No­_..apply Lml one I)OfSCJI3I 

THE QUAJ.ITY GOES IN BEFORE TH~ NIUW GO!:!> ON 




_______,.____ _________________..,. 
The Observer 
Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 12 

·I 
l 
Wordsworth's Prelude vs. Honda's Prelude:

l Woddsin Collision.
I As lnomas Mon! sa1d shortlrbefore hiS untimely dem1se. 'The1e IS no hurt on earth that is beyond heavenly help • 
Hew does this siMple. poignant. powerful thought relate t~ the inherent tension evtdent m the contrast bt>twl!ll'n Wordsworth s immortal The 1}-,/ude and that more recent (and better recos ­nized) offenng from one of Japan's pre-eminent artiSts. The Honda Motor Corporation' 

i 
First. let's con· stder the facts. 
I 
Th get ahead in college, it helps if comes with either two built-in 800K you choose abrilliant roommate. Like a drives, or one drive and an internal Macintosh"personal oomputer. And now 20-megabyte hard disk. As well as a there are two moclels to choose from. choice of two new keyboards. 
The Macintosh Plus, which comes Inside, the SE also has an expan­with one BOOK disk drive and afull mega-sion slot, so you can add acard that lets byte of memory(expandable to four). you share information over acampus-
And the new Macintosh SE. Which wide network. Or another card that 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25, Comp-Math Bid. 219-239-7477 
lets you run MS-DOS programs. 
Whichever Macintosh you choose, you can use the latest, most advanced software. And that means you'll be able to work faster, better and smarter. 
No two ways about it. 


Thep<MTeftobe)Ullfbeq 
C1987AppkCompuJer.lnc.AppkandlhPApple/qfoareregtstmdlmdemarltsrfAppleCampuler.lnc.MacinlosbisatrrJtkrnar*ifAppkCompuler,hlCMJ DOSisarep,islmfltmdenltlri?ifMimJ.<XIjiCorp. 
"f!Tyt""t'Y~'tY"t'YYT'YmTYTT't'tY'YT'f'T'rt'Y"Yt'm"Yt'm't'TTTT'YTYT'f'T~TTTTTT..,­
y·····~···························~················~········~ 

The Observer Thursday, April9, 1987 -page 13 
Second-round action is finally underway 
Bookatore Tournament 
Wedneaday'a Reaulta 
Stepan 1 The Board Bangers over Las Guasabaras by 4 Team No. 622 over In-n-out by 7 Spigot o· Vomit over Team No. 175 by 2 The Cool Team over Puff My Magic Dragon by 
4 

Stepan 2 Swiss. Colby, and 3 other Cheeses over Team No. 659 by 5 Leone's Stallions over Team No. 347 by 17 G-Men over Revenge of the Plaidsters by 14 Sheep Thrills over Tequila Sunrise and the Mic­
helob Lights by 11 

Stepan 3 Team No. 208 over Team No. 335 by 6 Lock'n Toast'em over Duncan Hines and the Pillsbury Whiteboys by 4 Pete and Toni are Fat over Team No. 511 by 2 Papa Sumby and Flying Eggmen over Unknow­ables by 11 
Stepan 4 Fat Chicks over Team No. 636 by 14 Team No. 51 over Transport Phenomenon by 
8 Team No. 644 over 4 Thugs and a Hub by 16 4 Fags and a Zomb1e over Druids by 21 
Stepan 5 Michiana Express over Propazition Photy-Ate by 12 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add over Peace Love Dove by 4 We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot over Plether and the Pseudo Cows by 7 Team No. 489 over A Name Joe Cassidy Wouldn't Allow by 6 
Stepan 8 Team No. 385 over 4 Engineers & a Bio Major by 11 LB'J Rias and 4 Other Guys over Team No. 635 by 3 Glazed Donuts over Gashmasters by 2 Team No. 271 over Sween's Dogs by 17 
Bookstore 9 Colin Rowe & 4 Other Slugs over Michael Jor­dan's Illegitimate Sons by 10 Desperados over Team No. 62 by 8 The Cunning ... over The 5 Unlicensed Gynecologists by 12 The Dooble Brothers over Team No. 632 by 2 
Bookstore 1 0 Cotton Club over Team No. 530 by 14 Return of the Fugitive Guy over Team No. 661 by 15 Tequila Light Whitening over Team No. 37 by 
3 Team No. 47 over Team No. 337 by 6 
Lyons 11 Spanish Fly &...over Computer Whiz&... by 3 The Yellow Submarines X-Meats over Team 
No. 430 by 11 
Malandros over Yeah, But We'll Outdrink You Anyway by 11 Team No. 27 over Penguins in Bondage by 5 
Lyons 12 Gods & Men at NO over It's Good to by Messy Kings by 6 Wretched Return of Red, Red Wine over Keenan 3rd by 1 0 What's Smaller Than ... over 3 Muskateers ... by 19 Top Guns over 5 Guys Who Smoke by 17 
Thureday'a Games Stepan 1 
4:00 -Missing Line vs. Buzz & 4 Other Vegetables 
4:45 -Rat Pack vs. We May Be Small, But We're ... 5:30-Rosie Palms-Soccer Burgers vs. 5 Guys Who Flow Like Rivers 
6:15 -Capt. Kirk & 4 Other Guys with Big 
Phasers II vs. Team No. 341 Stepen 2 
4:00 • Team No. 420 vs. Fawn Hall's Desktop Aerobics&... 
4:45 • Digger Phelps & 4 other ... vs. 6 Feet Under 
5:30 • A Priest & 4 Followers vs. New Order 
6:15 • Minahoonies vs. Love Fest Lives Stepan 3 
4:00 • Platoon vs. Team No. 557 
4:45 • Cop Car Thief,.An Ex-RA & 3 Other Guys vs. McHugh,Retroske ... 
5:30 • Sex C. Sections vs. No Law 
6:15 ·The Bosses vs. Studd Stepan 4 
4:00 • Snow Blowers vs. Who's Next...Who 
Cares 

4:45 ·The Goop Runs Again vs. The Condos 
5:30 • Team No. 303 vs. Ollie North's Fan Club 
6:15 • We Don't Dribble Before We Shoot vs. 
Mulley's Bay Stepen 5 
4:00 ·Johnny Doumbear's vs. Phil Collins, Monk Malloy ... 
4:45 • Gary's Kids vs. Team No. 313 
5:30 • Mr. Coffey vs. Bon Jovi 
6:15 • Mojo Risin II vs. C.J. & the Rastafarians Stepen 8 
4:00 • Ponders Pants Python vs. Josephus & the Ethiopaan Shim Sham 
4:45 • Holy Rollers vs. Team No. 376 
5:30 • We Pack Extra Baggage vs. Re~enge of Molten Lava 
6:15 • 11 You Fake It One More Time ... vs. Heat 
Miser Bookstore 9 
4:00 • Colin Rowe & 4 Other Slugs vs. Cotton Club 
4:15 ·The Cunning ... vs. Tequila Light Whiten­ing 
5:30 • Jus' Tofu vs. Skid Row Swallows 
6:15 ·Air Daggers vs. Oliver North & the Contra 
Connection Bookstore 10 
4:00 • Desperados 11s. Retum of the Fugitive Guys 
4:45 -Ex MBA Quasi Schola~ocks liS. Corporate Raiders 
5:30 • Oliver North vs. Gee I Don't Know 
6:15 • Ten of Us vs. Team No. 458 Lyone 11 
4:00 • Spanish Fly & the Pine Raiders vs. Gods & Men at NO 
4:45 • Malandros vs. What's Smaller Than A Taenia Weenie Fly 
5:30 ·Myth. Gods of Love & Destruction vs. 10 Guys Nobody Likas... 
6:15 ·Team No. 193 vs. We Eat Cannibals Lyon• 12 
4:00 • The Yellow Submarine X-Meats vs. Wretched Retum of Red,Red Wine 
4:45 • Sel1 Appointed Frie Marshalls of the Jungle vs. Disgrace 
5:30 • Otis Hurts vs. Chris Rawson & 4 Other Guys Who Can't Pick Up Chicks 6:15-Team No. 27 vs. Top Guns 


~'"/lET TO EUROPE

THENfJT,..,4 Is /celandair 

/celandair Direct to Luxembourg from Chicago is only$689 round trip! 
• 
Free express motorcoaches to Germany, Holland and Belgium. 

• 
Only $15 by train to Switzerland and France. Economical Eurailpasses are available. 

• 
Kemwel Rent-A-Cars with no mileage charge start at only $79 per week short term and even lower for long term rentals.* 

• 
Prepaid Hotelpak coupons, start at only $26.00 per night in 19 European Countries.** 

• 
Our unrestricted fares are also super low priced to Paris and Frankfurt. 

• 
We fly from New York, Chicago, Boston, Baltimore/Washington 


and Orlando. 
ICELANDAIR 


CALL ICE FOR THE PRICE AT 1-800-223-5500 OR YOUR TRAVEL AGENT. 
Fare facts: Super Apex Fare is valid &1187 thru 97187. 7 day minimum'60 daymaximum. Payment 14 days.prior to departure. Fares sub1ect to change. Penalty for cancellation. SJ departure ta)( and $10 U.S. customs11mm1grat10n fee. L1m1ted ava1lab1hty, other restnct1ons may apply. 
• Prices based on rate of e)(change 2,11187. ••Reservations subject to availability. Full refunds with a 14 day pnor cancellation. 
NLEast 
continuedfrom page 16 
Todd Worrell (36 SVs), last 
year's Rookie of the Year. 
Overall, it's a quality group. 
Second place goes to the New York Mets if for no other rea-· son than the non-repeating syndrome. But other than that, the Mets have some other prob­lems that may unravel last year powerhouse. Dwight Gooden will be in drug rehab for a while, Roger McDowell is injured and a host of off -the­field problems have sur­rounded this team since its shining moment. 
Third place goes to the only quality team left, the Philadel­phia Phillies. Philadelphia has a nice blend of youth and expe­rience in its lineup. Mike Eas­ler (.302, 14HRs, 78 RBis), ac­quired from the Yankees for Charles Hudson, adds punch to lineup that already includes sluggers Von Hayes (98 RBis) and Mike Schmidt (37 HRs, 119 RBis). 
This is where the quality in this division takes a nosedive. 
Finishing fourth will be the Chicago Cubs. Andre Dawson and Ryne Sandberg lead a good 
Doves 
continuedfrom page 16 
dressed in flower-child attire and, despite the loss, brought good music with them, includ­ing the Woodstock tape. 
The Return of the Fugitive Guy sunk Team No. 661, 21-6, Wrigley Field. 
hitting  team  that  will  score  
some  runs  anywhere,  and  
they'll  score  a  lot  more  at  

Unfortunately, Rick Sutcliffe and Steve Trout lead a pitiful pitching staff (last place with a 4.49 ERA) that will give up some runs anywhere, and they'll give up a lot more at Wrigley Field. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates will take fifth. The Pirates are very young, especially their pitch­ing staff. Doug Dra beck and Bob Kipper will have to respond to help first baseman Sid Bream, outfielders Barry Bonds and Van Slyke, second baseman Johnny Ray and third sacker Jim Morrison (no, not THAT Jim Morrison) get some wins. 
The cellar goes to the Montreal Expos by a landslide. The off-season was not kind to MontreaL They lost an all-star outfielder, Andre Dawson, probably will get one back, Tim Raines, but only after he has missed over a month. They traded one of the National League's finest relievers, Jeff Reardon, to Minnesota for peanuts. That leaves them with a team even the optimist-of­optimists won't believe is a con­tender. 
despite shooting 21-of-57, and Melandros downed Yeah, But We'll Outdrink You Anyway, 21-10. Top Guns shot down Five Guys Who Smoke, 21-4, while Fat Chicks squished Team No. 
636, 21-10.  
Another  40  games  are  on  
slate  for  tomorrow  as  the  
second  round  of  the  tourna­ 
ment continues.  




' --. . • .._ ii:.
• a .c p IX a a 2 
~ 
1 
1I 1 : 
The Observer Thursday, April 9, 1987-page 14 
\ \
' I !l 
1 


ALEast 

l ' continuedfrom page 16 
87 SBs) -he's a PTP, a super­I star. Don Mattingly (.352, 31, 113 RBI) -he's the MVP, Mr.
l Consistency. Dave Winfield (.262, 24, 104) -a· man among men. They've got solid youngsters in Mike Pagliarulo, a member of the Dick Vitale 
. l All-Italian Team, and Dan 
' I , Pasqua -a real space eater.
'I 
I 
1 t 
\ "Who's next, Dick?" "I'm tellin' ya, it's my team
l l 
of the future, the Cleveland In­II dians. They've got the all­
Pampers team -great young talent in Joe Carter (.302, 29, 
121) and Cory Snyder (.272, 24, 69). 

\ 
"Who's fourth?" . ' "The boys from Beantown,
I 
t the Boston Red Sox. They've got pitchers and more in Roger Clemens (24-5, 2.48) Dennis ­
; l : t All-Nickname -'Oil Can' Boyd (16-10) and Bruce 'I was almost
l) 
named the Series MVP' Hurst 
(13-8). The Sox outfield of Jim Rice (.324, 20, 110), Dwight Evans (.259, 26, 97) and David Henderson (.265, 15, 47) might begin to show signs of age this year. They've got got Wayde Boggs, though, (.357)." 

•I 
1 
"Who's left, Dick?" "l 
"The men from Motown, the Detroit Tigers. Losing Lance

) 
I 
Parrish means a lot of lost pro­duction as well as a solid catcher. 
In sixth, I like the Milwaukee Brewers. Teddy Higuera (20­11, 2.79) gets my early Cy Young vote. They need the 
~~~~~}~~~{~~--~·~ 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
I 
Department of Communications & Theatre 

I I
presents a studio production of 
" ...hot ice and wondrous strange snow."

I 
a Shakespearean Anthology I 
devised & directed by Roberta N. Rude 
I 

I 
April 8,9,10,13 -12:15 pm

I 
·· Haggar Center Terrace 

I) 
\I 
... Rain site Haggar Parlor ... April12 -7:00pm Haggar Parlor 
Free Admission, for more info 284-4640 
1
Ll.G.IIl~-rii i6W8;2-I:fWV~~· ' •.)._i 

+~e RENTALS 
No Deposit 

Free Membership 95t 
No Hassle 


per day (lday min)

!;~.. 

"Early Bird Special" 

<ner5,080 
~ 20% Discount 
Utlnl• 
stock

(blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A)
sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
$9.95 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 


for3days Plus-1st Movie 
FREE

niversity Park Mall and 
JWmiNr 
($3.95

Concord & Pierre Moran 
onmight)

~~~~D Curtis

Malls -Elkhart 

::·...,IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMathes 
lllll'l HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER 
._.. 

~ 
APphoto 
Lloyd Moseby got the 1987 season off to a bang for the Toronto Blue Jays by hitting the season's first home run on Monday. 
younger guys like Rob Deer (.232, 33, 86) to pick up the slack left by aging veterans. Bring­ing up the rear will be the Bal­timore Orioles. An aging pitch­ing staff hurts the Birds, but Cal Ripken the shortstop (.282, 25, 81) will always be a bright spot for Cal Ripken the manager. 
I 

I
I 


AL West 
continued/rom page 16 
Billy Gardner is out to do just that. Right fielder Danny Tar­tabull was acquired from Seattle, where he hit 25 home runs and added 96 RBis, and the versatile Juan Beniquez 
comes to the Royals from Bal­timore, where he has batted .300 or better in each of his last four years. 
Add the familiar names of George Brett, Frank White and Willie Wilson, and throw in the fact that none of these players are used to finishing out of first place, and it looks like another royal season in Kansas City. 
If last year is any indication, the Texas Rangers are a team of the future, and should make a strong run at the AL West title this season -thanks to some kids who come through when given the opportunity. 
Rookies, rookies and more rookies led the traditionally­hapless Rangers to a very un­traditional season and a second-place finish. For example, first-year left fielder Pete Incaviglia tied a club record with 30 homers, while Ruben Sierra smacked a record 10 triples, even though he was not called up until June 1by manager Bobby Valentine. 
The California Angels are not the same team that battled the Boston Red Sox in that memorable AL championship classic last year. Gone are Reggie Jackson, Rick Bur­leson, Doug Corbett and Terry Forster -along with any hopes of topping last season's 92-70 mark. 
Tony LaRussa's Oakland A's have the bats of Reggie Jackson (yes, he's back) and Jose Can­seco going for them. But they also have the strikeouts of those two men going against them. 
The Minnesota Twins just don't have the pitching. Fifth place. 
The Chicago White Sox just don't have the hitting. Sixth place. 
The Seattle Mariners don't have either one. Seventh place, easily. 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we offer you a special discount. 
<IJ 

New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
~ 

Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 

Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
~ 

Intercom entrances 
Reasonably priced 
-

gas/heat 
-Earthtone Interiors 
II 

Country Kitchens 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 





-..... 





~~~4tll~----------------------------------------------------------T-hu•r•sd•a•y•,A•p•r•il•9•,1•9•87•-•p•a•ge
...15 Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
GtfW. 
e:Jmcr<l 

liN GNT!r<E Gllt"7f:a cr 
rut. me: 

lt1005E t..O«£ t.OONS 
HI. /f1(¥)$e~ 1HIIT IINCJ 1H£fR MV€"5 ON 
~~ ··~1/E 
7H£ PREMffJf5. 
(!{£" MONS-ref(' /~ _ !!1/Nfl H€T<£ -~ 
6 I\ \ 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
ITS FINALLY Tl/'1{ fOR Til£ 
tJI!J YOU GUYS YUP! J.I[RfS 

I-I[Y-.4LLS FAII?IN SfCrtCN B·BALL FINAL. WE'VE 
W[ BRo/XJ/T
8RIN6 Til£.... 

LOVe, /,JAR, AND SEUK::!/11 (()TTA WIN AT ALL COST~ !f 
T"Uf BALL! 
I~ CHUCK. 
"[QUIPHENT"? 

I ~T HOI'£ TilE 6UYS 
I

DICWT FoRGET TH~ ~rti/SURANCE'' ITEH~_-_-_­
No,JIA/1,
l H[AN / TJ.If 
0 
0 
~EGUff>I1£NT"
0 



Campus 
1:30 p.m.: Friends of the Notre Dame Li­brary Colloquium, Professors Thomas Werge and Elizabeth Christman will dis­cuss "Serious Fiction and the Publishing Industry.'' Library Auditorium 
3:30p.m.: Reilly lecture in Chemical En­gineering ''Diffusionphoresis: Cheomotactic Movement of the Inert Par­ticles," by Prof. John Quinn, 356 Fitzpatrick 
4: 00 -6:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Lecture "Catholicism and Society in Brazil," by Profs. Ralph Della Cava, CUNY, Queens College, and Paula Montero, Brazil, 131 Decio 
4:30p.m.: College of Science Lectures in Biological Sciences "Experimental Studies on a Disturbance-Dependent Ben­
thic  Algal  Species,"  by  Prof.  Robert  
Paine,  283  Galvin  Life  Sciences  
Auditorium  

6:00p.m.: Dr. Charles Poinsatte, profes­sor of History at Saint Mary's will host the movie "Danton" with a discussion to follow at Cushwa-Leighton Library, Saint Mary's. Sponsered by the Saint Mary's History Club 
7:00 p.m.: Thursday Night Film Series "The Selling of the Pentagon," 1970, color 54 minutes, directed by Peter Davis, CBS News, USA, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00p.m.: Presentation by Paul Reynolds, Associate Director Career and Placement Services, "Juniors: How to Fill Out Your Profile Form," 118 Nieuwland Science 
7:30p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop for Seniors. Theme: Stages in Making a Transition: Managing the Stress. Speakers: Christine Conway, Ph.D., Rita Donley, Ph.D., Staff Psyc­hologists, UND Counseling Center, CSC 
+++++++++++++++++++++++ rS bP t ·
+SAB presents: + a resen S. 
+ + 
+ ''Green Berets'' + : The Ultimate War Movie : 
+ + 
: Thursday 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 : 
+ t
+ $1 Engineering Aud. t 
Absolutely r-o food or :.!rink allowed 

Mr. Ed spills his guts. 
· The Daily Cross~ord 
ACROSS 1 Linger 

7:30p.m.: Friends of the Snite Museum 
5 Looks for 

of Art "What is Art?" Lecture "The 
bargains 10 Behaves 14 Sp. river

Baroque: The Expanding Horizon," by 
Charles Rosenberg, ND, Annenberg 
15 Egret
Auditorium 
16 Slap

7:30 p.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality 
17 Vessel in song Lecture "Women at Prayer," by Sister 
20 Decade 21 Hockey great 

Mary Collins, O.S.B., Associate Director, 
22 Aria singer

Center for Benedictine Studies, Atchison, 
23 Great deal 
Kansas, O'Laughlin Auditorium 
24 Through 25 Noble rank 30 State in India

8:00p.m.: SMC Graduate Artists Recital, 
34 Football team

Christine Vicck, voice, Little Theatre 
35 Length of

8:00 p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies 
time 

Public Lecture "Cubism, Camouflage, 
37 Hubbub 
38 First-rate 39 Violinist

Silence, and Democracy: A 
Phenomenological Approach," by Prof. 
Mischa

Stephen Kern, Northern Illinois Univer­
41 Pig food 
sity, Library Auditorium 

42 Comp. pt. 8:00p.m.: Play, "A Peasant of El Sal­
43 Notion 44 Character

vador" presented by the Social Concerns 
46 Stitched

Cultural Arts Series of the CSC, Washing­
48 Lessened

ton Hall, $4:00 general admission, $1.00 for 
50 Everythingstudents 
52 Jacket 53 Den 57 Author Fleming 58 Inventor's 
initials
Dinner Menus 
61 Place from an old song 64 Excavation
Notre Dame 
65 Conical tent 66 lt. river 
67 Entrance 68 Rapier
Roast Top Round of Beef 
Turkey Tetrazini 
69 Lads

Zucchini Quiche Devonshire Sandwich DOWN 1 Rebecca or Mae
Saint Mary's 2 Competent 3 Press 4 Draw
Southern Fried Chicken 
5 Curtailed

Spaghetti with Meat and Marinara 6 Name in Sauce publishing . 7 Morsel
Cheese Omelet 
8 Cooking needs

Deli Bar 9 Pry 10 Detests 

TOP GUN 
Friday and Saturday 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $1.50 Engineering Auditorium 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed. 

-
~1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/9/87All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

11 152 12 Units of weight 13 Elite police 
force 18 Daniel or Pat 19 Exonerate 23 Affection 25 Soy and lima 26 Solitary 27 Take up again 28 Architectural 
moldings 29 Affirmative 
vote 31 Port-­32 Put on a 
pedestal 
4/9/87
33 Was listless 36 Made critical 
notes 51 Endures 58 Bull: Sp. 40 Headed 53 Fissure 59 Like some 41-Musial 54 Wife of grain 43 Loafed Geraint 60 Biblical 45 Anguish 55 Singer patriarch 47 Tragus Tennille 62 Gl's address • 49 Carl or Rob 56 Muscle 63 Check 
-----· 



' 
~ 
\ 
! i 
1 ~ 
' 
i ! 
j • 1 
; }~ 

I 
{ 

I ; 
{ 

: ! 
I ~ 
~ 
} 
l l 

I r 
i { 
l )
1 
I
; 

I 
'I 



______________________,.._... 
Thursday, April 9, 1987 -page 16
S~orts 

Druids suffer first tourney shutout as first round comes to a finish 
By BRIAN O'GARA 21-4, in what just may be the Sports Writer quickest disposal of the tourn­ament to date. The Stallions 
It took over 350 games and, ran away with the win in a brisk more importantly, five Druids, 15 minutes. but it finally happened. "They (Leone's Stallions) 
Bookstore Basketball XVI are one of those teams that just saw its first shutout yesterday plays real well together,'' said as 4 Fags & A Zahmbie Bookstore Commissioner Steve slammed the Druids, 21-0, and Wenc. "They all seem to know showed why they are one of the where everybody else is on the 16 ranked teams of the tourna­court. It's no fluke that they ment. made the finals last year ­
The Druids have the un-they're a solid seed." 

Bookstore Basketball XVI 
pleasant distinction of being the first team to be skunked this year in Bookstore. You know · who these people are. They are the same folks who put all those ads in Classifieds, wear capes, worship Stonehenge and do various other goofy things such as use an "oaken cudgel" to try to block the 4 Fags' shots in yes­terday's game. Andy 'Pheonix' Saal of the Druids was able to block seven shots with the cudgel, which really was just a big stick. 
"Sunspot activity changed the phase of the moon and caused all our shots to be off by four inches," said ArchDruid Mark McLaughlin of his team's 0-of-24 shooting. 
Leone's Stallions, last year's runnerup to Lee's BBQ Roundhouse II in the champi­onship, showed no mercy as they trampled Team No. 347, 

Observer staff takes stabs at predj,cting 1987 season 

AL East 

"I'm telling you, Dennis, the AL East is strictly PTL -not Pat Robertson's evangelist show, but a prime time league. The teams can take you DT, baby, downtown. But it's got some KO pitchers who can give you the PTK ­prime time stirke out. 
"OK, Dicky V., who do you like?" 

"I hate to say this, but the Toronto Blue Jays will be dancing in the ball come October. Thev've got an All-

Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 
Unknown Team outfield in Lloyd "Shaker Mo" Moseby (.253, 212 HR, 86 RBI), angry young man George Bell (.309, 31, 108) and Jesse Barfield (.289, 40, 108). Tony Fernandez is as solid a shortstop as you'll find. 
"They're pitching was a little shaky last year, but Dave Stieb (7-12, 4.74 ERA) had surgery and should make a strong comeback. If Jimmy Key (14-11, 
3.57) and Jim Clancy (14-14, 3.94) bounce back, this is a team that could do it all." 
"Who's next, Dick" 
''Those guys from near my part of the country, the New York Yankees. This is a team with some All-Universe players. Ricky Henderson ( .263, 28 HR, 
see AL EAST, page 14 
In yesterday's marathon game, Glazed Donuts dumped Gashmasters, 21-19, in a one hour and 25-minute contest. The Gashmasters held an 11-5 lead at the half, but Glazed Donuts fought back to even the score at 16. The two teams traded baskets to the wire until Glazed Donuts' Rick Gates, with his team up 20-19, sunk a 15-footer for the win. Gates was modest after his game-winning bucket. 
"I don't even like glazed donuts," said the Columbia City, Indiana native. 
Ironically, the players on both of these teams are neigh­bors at Campus View. They planned on getting together last evening to watch replays of the game over beverages. Just like the big time. 
Swiss, Colby & Three Other Cheeses held off a tough chal­lenge from Team No. 659 be-


AL West 
The Kansas City Royals have some­thing to prove, and perhaps more im­portantly, they have the perfect divi­sion in which to prove it. 
The Royals went from champions of the baseball world two years ago to a 76-86 team last season, when they es­tablished themselves as the American League's second-to-last team in runs scored. But this year should see Kansas City back in the top spot, thanks to some 
Marty Strasen Assistant Sports Edito1 


fresh young faces, some hungry old ones, and the easiest division in baseball. 
Sure ace reliever Dan Quisinberry only saved 12 games after four succes­sive seasons as Fireman of the Year, but you can't expect a guy to save many games when his team isn't getting in front. 'The Quiz' might not be 'The Su­perquiz' of old, but he should find the going a little easier this year behind Bret Saber hagen (7-12, 4.15 ERA), Charlie Leibrandt (14-11, 4.09), Danny Jackson (11-12, 3.20) and Mark Gubicza (12-6, 3.64). 
This is a team that would be 15 games better than anyone in the AL West if it could find some runs, and new manager 
see AL WEST, page 14 
hind Jerry Melia's 15 points, in­cluding all 11 of the Cheeses' first-half points. It seems only two cheeses showed up for this one, as the winners played with only four guys while the losing team was comprised of five girls. 
Melia, relishing his opportu­nity to play hotdog, gathered most of his points from layups as a result of the fast break or just plain ole basket-hanging. His layup conversion percentage was somewhat lower than Indiana's Steve Al­ford three-point shooting percentage, as Melia turned in a 15-of-42 performance. 
''About the only thing I could fill up was the scoresheet," said Melia after looking at the game's tally sheet. 
The five girls from Team No. 659 were in the game through­out, thanks to the seven-point, nine-rebound and one-broken­nail performance of Nannette 
,LaFond. "Nannette was a major force in the game until she broke that nail," said John Fitzsimmons of the Cheeses. 
All five girls got on the scoreboard, including Michelle LaRose, who scored her team's final point. 
"We· just really wanted to make sure LaLa (LaRose) scored at least once this semes­ter," said Jenny Hallenback. 
In other action, 7 Guys Who Still Can't Add shot down Peace Love Dove, 21-17. According to a team spokesman, the 7 Guys 
The Observer /Mike Moran
were led by Tom Shallow's four Dick Prosen goes up for a jam for Malandros in Bookstore action points. The Doves came Wednesday on Lyons 11. Prosen scored 5 as Malandros defeated 
Yeah, But We'll Outdrink You Anyway, 21-10. Other results and 
see DOVES, page 13 today's schedule appear on page 13. 

NL East 
The Mets will not repeat. The Mets will not repeat. The Mets will not repeat. 
Maybe if I say it a few more times, I'll really believe it. Nevertheless, the National League East is separated into two definite groups: the contenders and the no-way-in-becks. 
And leading the way for the con­tenders will be the St. Louis Cardinals. This team made a major deal, trading 
Rick Rietbrock 
Assistant Sports Editor 

outfielder Andy VanSlyke and catcher Mike Lavalliere for Tony Pena, who has few peers as a backstop. The rest of the lineup will be solid if last season's wounds are fully healed. Willie McGee and Jack Clark are trying to rebound, and if they do, the Cards are looking good. 
Other keys are 'The Wizard' Ozzie Smith, who has improved his offense (107 SBs) to go with his acrobatic field­ing, speedster Vince Coleman and the progress of rookie outfielder Jim Lin­deman, who was impressive enough to facilitate Van Slyke's departure. 
The pitching includes starters Greg Mathews (11-8), John Tudor (13-7) and Danny Cox (12-13), and super-stopper 
see NL EAST, page 13 

NL West 
Warning: the Surgeon General has determined that these predictions may be hazardous to your gambling health. 
I really didn't know what to say when I was given the enviable task of previewing the National League West Division. 
I was left speechless not because I was honored, but because I know little if anything about the NL West. So with 
Pete Gegen 


Assistant Sports Editor 
a little help from Sports Illustrated's baseball preview issue, I'll try to give a run down of the division. 
The Houston Astros are the defending champs and should be near the top again this season. The entire starting lineup returns, including Cy Young award winner Mike Scott and Nolan Ryan, who will be trying to make it through the season without injuring his right elbow again. 
Already the Astros are fired up, taking the first two games from Los Angeles. And manager Hal Lanier is hot too after he was nearly beaned by 
a  warm-up pitch from  the Dodgers'  
Fernando  Valenzuela  in  Tuesday's  
game.  

see NL WEST, page 11 




