
NCAA pairings -page 9 

VOL. XXI, NO. 107 MONDAY, MARCH 9, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer /Zoltan Ury 
Study temple 
As sunshine hit the campus, students hit the Stonehenge" seem to be having a (large) ball quad this weekend. These three "priestesses of as they study by the Peace Memorial Fountain. 


PR director: Hesburgh not speaker 
By GREG LUCAS Staff Reporter 
Contrary to current rumors, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will not be this year's commencement speaker, said Richard Conklin, director of Public Relations and Information. 
"I would not be surprised if (Hesburgh) speaks sometime during the ceremony, but he will not be the commencement speaker," Conklin said. 
According to Conklin, invita­tions have been sent out to this year's prospective graduation speaker and approximately 10 or 12 potential honorary degree recipients. 
Conklin said that names will not be released for about three weeks. "Our policy is to wait until we have heard from everyone before releasing names," said Conklin. 
"This year, the honorary degree members will be leaders in the areas that Father Hesburgh himself is distin­guished," such as civil rights and education, Conklin said. 
The the choice of who is in­vited to be commencement speaker is made entirely by Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees, Conklin said. The honorary degree recipients are chosen in the same manner, Conklin added. 


Aide told Reagan twice of Contra money link, according to report 
A'ssociated Press 
WASHINGTON -A Senate committee investigating the Iran-Contra affair could vote within three weeks on immu­nity for former White House aide John Poindexter, who-ac­cording to a published' report ­maintains he twice told the president that Iranian arms sales generated money for the Nicaraguan rebels. 
Some members of the Senate select committee are pushing for a speedy vote on immunity for key figures in the investi­gation, but other senators say that would be too soon. 
One congressional source said the Senate panel is "mov­ing toward a decision one way or the other'' on whether to give immunity to Poindexter, the former national security ad­viser, and fired White House aide Lt. Col. Oliver North, and perhaps North's associate, retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord. 
But the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it was too soon to say whether the necessary two-thirds majority of committee members would vote for immunity. 
Meanwhile, The Washington Post, citing "a well-placed le­gal source," said Poindexter contends that on two occasions in 1986 he told President Reagan that the arms sales to Iran were generating money for the Contras. 
This source, according to the newspaper's Sunday editions, said Poindexter did not tell the president of illegal diversion of the money, but did say the funds contributed by the Iranians or Israelis were a side benefit of the arms sales. 
A close Navy associate of Poindexter, who the newspa­per did not identify, said Poin­dexter in December told him his actions followed "the chain of command." 
White House officials, accor­ding to a "source close to the president" quoted by the Post, anticipate that Poindexter "will say he had direction and authority, directly or indirect­ly" from Reagan and that the former security adviser's tes­timony could damage the pres­ident's claim that he did not know of any diversion of funds from the arms sales to the Con­tras. 
The Tower commission, ap­pointed by the president to in­vestigate the Iran-Contra af­fair, said it found no evidence to dispute Reagan's contention that he had no knowledge of the diversion. 
see REAGAN, page 4 


Work begins on athletic facility with astroturf surface 
By DIANE SCHROEDER Staff Reporter 
Construction is underway on a $6-million sports center in the northeast sector of the Notre Dame campus. 
The 600 by 200-foot building will be named for its principle benefactor and 1949 alumnus, John R. Loftus of St. Charles, Ill. 
The center is being built near the Eck Tennis Pavilion, which is also under construction. 
The new facility will be used primarily for varsity athletes, said Athletic Director Gene Corrigan. Areas previously used by var­sity athletes at the ACC will then be made available to Notre Dame students and fac­ulty members, he said. Those participating in intramural ac­tivities and physical education classes will also have access to the new facilities. 
The new building will encom­pass Meyo Field, an astroturf surface encircled by a track. 
Construction, which began four weeks ago, is scheduled to be completed by the end of Oc­tober, said Don Dedrick, direc­tor of the physical plant. 
The surrounding space will accommodate a weight room and exercise area, as well as sports classes and conference rooms, according to Corrigan. 
"One of the greatest benefits is the massive amount of space the building will make avail­able for recreation while reduc­ing the congestion at the Ath­letics and Convocation Center," said Corrigan. 
The new indoor track will be one of the finest in the country, allowing for faster times, said Corrigan. 
"Because the track will be so large, there will be fewer turns which will allow for more straight-away track and faster 


Mountain man Claude Dallas finally captured 
Associated Press 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -Self­styled mountain man Claude Dallas, who escaped from the Idaho State Pententiary after being convicted of killing two state Fish and Game wardens, was captured Sunday in Cali­fornia, the FBI said. 
Dallas, using the alias Al Schrenk, was peacefully ar­rested at a convenience market in this ranching-area commu­nity 50 miles east of Los An­geles, said FBI spokesman Fred Regan. 
Dallas apparently had friends in the area, authorities said. 
"It's been a good day, a great day," said Owyhee County, Idaho, Sheriff Tim Nettleton after hearing about the cap­ture. Nettleton headed the ini­tial investigation that led to the 1982 capture of Dallas in Paradise Hill, Nev. 
"Claude Dallas, in the excep­tion of being a game hog and game officer killer, was a nice guy. A lot of people share his sentiments but they don't kill people." 
Dallas, 37, became a folk hero to some after cutting his way through two prison fences on March 30, Easter Sunday, and fleeing into the high desert of southern Idaho and northern Nevada. He was serving a 30­year sentence for manslaughter. 
Many admirers saw Dallas as a modern-day version of the rugged individual of the Old West. He was the subject of a CBS-TV movie last year, "Manhunt: Search for Claude Dallas," which many critics said romanticized the killer. 
"He's as much of a Western hero as Charles Manson," au­thor Jack Olsen, who researched Dallas for his book "Give a Boy a Gun," had said earlier. "Dallas would kill a lawman with about the same guilt and conscience as he eats his Wheaties in the morning." 
Dallas had managed to elude authorities for 16 months before finally being arrested in the 1981 slayings of the two game wardens, Bill Pogue and Conley Elms. 
He was put on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list 47 days after his prison escape. A reward fund had grown to more than $15,000. 

times," said Corrigan. "Most indoor tracks have ten laps to the mile, and ours will have only five or six." 
The track and field area of the north dome of the ACC will be turned into basketball courts for the students, and the ACC varsity weight room will also be made accessible to the students, according to Cor­rigan. 
see BUILDING, page 3 
WVFito 
broadcast 

after break 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
WVFI will tentatively start broadcasting again the week after spring break, ac­cording to Sheila McDaniel, station manager;program director. 
The AM radio station has been off the air since the last week of finals in December. "We usually go off the air 
see WVFI, page 4 

Monday, March 9, 1987-page 2 
The Observer 



In Brief 
ABC and CBS told the Writers Guild of America on Sunday that the union must pay for health benefits for 525 striking employees. Representatives of management and the union met for about eight hours Sunday to try to end the week-old strike, which began over what the union said were job security issues. They recessed at 9 p.m., and talks were to resume at 2 p.m. Tuesday, said union spokes­man Martin Waldman. "During the session, some minor areas were resolved, but there still has been no resolution of major issues," Waldman said. -Associated Press 
Many tobacco lovers in this city of ss,ooo people will have to light up away from their desks Monday be­cause a smoking ban went into effect over the weekend affecting virtually all public places. As of Sunday, this hub of academia and home of Harvard University out­lawed smoking in private, state, county and municipal buidings, affecting an estimated 96,000 workers. Each in­stitution is to set a smoking policy with non-smokers in mind. Designated smoking areas can be established only if they do not affect non-smokers. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Inflation in Latin America: Old Lessons and New Ideas," a Brown Bag seminar, will be presented by Rene Cortazar of the department of economics and a Faculty Fellow, Tuesday at 12 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Hall. -The Observer 
Campaigning for all class elections ends tonight at midnight. -The Observer 
Tickets for the April 5th Huey Lewis & the News· concert at the ACC will go on sale Tuesday for $16.50. In order to accomodate Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, on Tuesday students only will be able to buy tickets starting at 9 a.m. at the ticket windows located at Gate 3 of the ACC. A valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's J.D. is required to purchase tickets at the Gate 3 location. There will be a limit of four tickets per purchasing student. No lines may form before 6 a.m. on Tuesday. A ticket sale for the general public will take place at the same time at Gate 10 ticket windows. -The Observer 
Margaret Theisen,director of Volunteers for Educational and Social Services, will distribute informa­tion and answer questions about the program being offered to graduating seniors, today 9 a.m.-m12 p.m. in the Library Concourse and 2-4 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival poster design contest has extended its deadline until Tuesday, March 10. Designs are due Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Student Activities Board secretary's office. For further information, call Kevin at 283-2139. -The Observer 

Weather 
~II weekend you've been playing Fnsbee, keg softball, and lounging in the 
poppy field dreaming of spring break. Then, Glenda, the good witch of the north, waves her magic wand and out of nowhere it is cloudy, windy and cold today with slowly falling temperatures and chance of snow flurries. High in the mid 30s. Clearing and very cold tonight. Sunny and cold Tuesday. Ahh South Bend 

... There's no place like home. -The Observer 

Activity advisers should let students make the decisions 
Like the rest of the seniors, come spring break, my four years with The Observer will end. From then on, sitting at the managing editor's desk will be Mark Pankowski. It'll be up to him to handle the daily crises and to stay up until dawn, if necessary, to get the paper to the printer. 
Mark, I wish you nothing but the best. 
As I look back on four years, one of the things that has made working for The Observer so exciting is the ability to make decisions and to take responsibility for my actions. It's this decision-making ability that has motivated me to continue with this organization for four long years. Needless to say, the experiences I've had made it all worthwhile. 
But this year, the headlines in The Observer have marked an interesting but disturbing trend away from student leadership and respon­sibility. 
Consider Senior Bar. At the end of last se­mester, the Office of Student Activities hired a full-time general manager to oversee the opera­tions of the student-run Senior Club. The new professional manager assumed some of the re­sponsibilities that were previously solely han­dled by the student managers. 
Consider the incident with Scholastic. When the student editors ran an illustration showing a sexually explicit scene, the Office of Student Activities shut them down. Everyone cried "censorship." While the independence of stu­dent media is important, the real issue, I think, is that the Office of Student Activities, their "publisher," no longer trusts the student editors, whoever they may be in future years, to make responsible decisions. The student editors may have made a bad decision to run the artwork showing a sexually explicit scene. But the student editors should have been left to take the lumps from the bad publicity that the decision might have caused. 
Next consider what happened with the Dan­cin' Irish. The faculty board in control of ath­letics disbanded the Dancin' Irish on Jan. 20 after receiving letters complaining about the group's performances. The appeals committee reinstated the Dancin' Irish for one more year but added several stipulations to the organiza­tion's new lease on life. One of these was the appointment of an adviser to assume duties that the group's co-captains had previously handled. 
The trend that I perceive in each of these three incidents is that student leaders are playing less and less of a role in responsible decision-making because the University has decided that professionals are more competent to make vital decisions than are students. 


Of course, they're right. Professionals can do a better job running Scholastic or Senior Bar. But the point is is that students need to learn how to make 'decisions and they must be allowed to make the mistakes that decision-making in­evitably entails. . 
How should the University manage student­run organizations without impinging on their independence? Having advisers who would guide and direct, but leave the work and the responsibility to the students, is one good way. Advisers should never perform the work for the students, but should assist them when they encounter problems. 
Advisers should not be merely appointed by the University; they should be chosen by the student leaders and approved by the appropri­ate office within the administration. 
The Office of Student Activities should not have hired a full-time manager for Senior Bar. Instead, the student leaders should have hired someone to perform the bookkeeping and fin­ancial duties. This way, the students would have maintained the responsibility for running the organization. The Office of Student Activities could have remained in the position as adviser without intruding on student management. 
I sincerely hope that this trend will not touch The Observer after I'm gone. In the meantime, it's comforting to know that sitting at the desk I now occupy will be someone who will be able to make decisions, both good and bad, and to do the work that needs to be done. 



VOCATION RETREAT 
1-&-~z....:.z.~~~€:!!:.~ tohilp_y'OU COt15idfr~.liQiOU6 hf~ a~ a 5l~t~~ pri£6t, or vroth€t" in tit€ Con2rE-g ation of tt o~ Cross 
......-:;.......-.J~~.._, ~nJay, March J.1, 7p11L~Sa.turday,,Atarch.2J,s-P" 
,_._....::=::IIL.......JI,;:I..-...;::11... ~ !1ary~ Solitude frayEr CEnter~ st. Mary~ 

Dengn Editor . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . Chris Donnelly Dengn A"iltant .. .. .. .. .. .. . Andy Fenoglio Tvpesetter ................. Mark McLaughlin ........................................... Daniel Cahill Newa Editors .......................... Jim Riley ............................................ Cathy Stacy COJIII Editor . .......... ............ Karen Webb Sports CoPJI Editors ....... Rick Rletbrock ...................... , ................... Brian O'Gara 

Viewpoint Copv Editor .. ...... .. Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout......... Melinda Murphy Tvpist .. .. .. ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .............. Laurlne Megna SMC Day Editor ... .. Theresa Harrington Ad Design................... Mary C. Creadon Photographer ........................ Zolton Ury 
Tile Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tile Oltlener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Allodated Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 



The Observer Monday, March 9, 1987-page 3 

APPhoto 
Salvage and rescue boats surround the ferry Herald of Free Enterprise Saturday off the Belgium coast at Seebrugge. The ferry capsized Friday night with close to 190 lives lost. Related 
story below right. 
fillna Status 
f.umplions 
A!"''Y'CIIKh 
lhttlooltbe\t<d 
You'"''
Ct~echalht• 
IIOll''lltho.•y 
JPOI~ 
Income 
Plent.llltch 
~::.~:'r~ 20. 
~fff;:.. 
A ""'li5Fi"[i5y''iT~ 131" WILLIAI"I ~A~
------'-'-;: ~N () JA~ E MILM()~ E 
1dJUslmrnh f ·-~Income ;: 25 ~:::·~~:::.:.:.:·tv~/2.i.n:Jfar( /ia.f.!.. 
~·:·::; :~-. :: ::::~;:: cf{a"lth 9.)0, &11 
JO o..:Ju~hon IO< • r 
-"-----­





RONNIE MILSAP 
With Special Guest 

.-----TUES., MARCH 24th-8 P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C, 18_:~c:e.t;3_50 
On 5alo B1 ACC BOX OFFICE·GB1o 10,CHARGE IY PHOIIE SEARS (UP Mall & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH 
BANK (Motn Office), NIGHTWINOS (No.(U• VIII er 1/C) VIII. Mall, 100 Clf., Nllea), JUST FOR tHE 
<',... _...._,._, ~~3~.0sJ~~~ ~St!;i:>sc'elkh!:t~~~·!219/239-7356 SHOP (LoPorte), ~USIC
MUSIC MAGIC 
T. GRAHAM BROWN (a.ntonHorbot). 
POfiiiU.tl ONJIRI: 8tMII no &pra ot ti(:Utld~M!red. Sltnd cheek or money orc»r ptty.ttle to N.D. Kenny Roglfl Stlow , IN 4656& VOU MUST -'d 11.50 we chg. per mail Older 
1~ ~: .... p .. ~··~t"R
14 .t~olctpot~p•nl' 15 OthlfJttf1tOf(lot" 16 fllllylt•lbltpenll 178 Olhlrl)enSIOIISII 

Jl~ ;:::·:~::· -e 
II '•rrn•ncomeor(kiiiH•""'n.!)CNctu~I'J . 
( Ts 

Z"~()T 

Group sponsors collection contest 
By CARl MARTINEZ 
News staff 
The Friends of the Library are sponsoring "Print and Sound Collector's Contest ­1987" for Notre!Dame graduate and undergraduate students who have literary and music collections. 
The purpose of the contest is to recognize and encourage the intelligent formation of per­sonal libraries by Notre Dame students. Entries will be judged on the basis of a unify­ing theme and a discriminating selection of titles. 
Entries need not be extensive -25 titles would be sufficient. Deadline for entries is March 23. 
According to Vikki Maac­houk, special assistant to the Director of Libraries, the themes represent great diver­sity. "They include books, magazines, newspapers, com­pact discs, records, tapes ex­panded to poetry and new wave. I think the contest is unique. You can take it in any 
Bodies of victims still trapped inside ferry 
Associated Press 82 people believed trapped in the half-submerged vessel off 
ZEEBRUGGE, Belgium -the Belgian coast. Engineers tried Sunday to right Relatives of passengers, a capsized British ferry in an meanwhile, went to a makes­effort to retrieve the bodies of hift morgue in a basketball 
The Observer 
The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Day Chief Day Editors Typists 
Questions should be directed to Kim Yuratovac at the Observer office (239-5313). Resume and personal statement are due by Monday, March 9 at 7 p.m. 

The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Business Page Editor Head Driver 
Questions should be directed to Brian Murray at the Observer office (239-5303). Applications are due by Monday, March 9. 
•=•=;•=•=;•==•:=•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•==•:=:e:::e:::e:::e:::e:==-==•===•==•=•=• 
Class of '90 : 
• 
• ·r--------------------, 



• 
• 

: We Want to Fight For You! : • Vote: "Generai"Gene Patton • : Doug/Jeft/Rich : 
··;·;·=·:·==-=~==-==-==•==•==-==-==•=•=•=•==•===•==-==-==•=•=•=•=•=•=•=•=• 
direction you want to go. It's very broad. 
"This will be the first time the Friends have sponsored such a contest," said Maac­houk, who keeps contacts be­tween the group and the li­brary. 
Since the contest is new, the requirements for entries are loosely set to encourage creativity and allow for ver­sitility. 
"Because of the broadness of the contest it is hard to come up with judges and set rules. This is why we've decided to leave it quite loose. Those who will be judging include repre­sentatives from the music de­partment, English department and two librarians," she said. 
Kristen Trimme, American studies public relations intern, proposed the idea fQr the con­test last spring along with the help of John Harlan, special as­sistant to the Director of Libra­ries. 
"The Friends wanted a new activity and they liked Kris­ten's idea," said Maachouk. 
The proposal was approved last year in July 1987. 
To enter one must submit an essay of up to 500 words describing the origins and de­velopment of their collection. A bibliography must also be in­cluded. 
Winners will be awarded cash prizes and their collec­tions will be displayed in the department of Special Colllec­tions. They will also be invited to a special awards ceremony to be held March 31, 1987. David Vaisey, the librarian of the Bodleian Library of Oxford University, England, will ad­dress the Friends and winners on the occasion. 
The Friends of the Library is an association that has devoted its attention to the strengthen­ing of the Libraries in many ways. Basically, it assists in the funding for important ma­terials beyond the Libraries' budget, enabling the Libraries to expand their role as a cul­tural institution. 
Tuxedo Rental Senior Formal Pierre Cardin, 
Bill Blass, 
and more..... 
Black Classic... $35.00 
Pay no more than $50.00 
Century Formalwear 1622 Mishawaka Ave 287-5938 
court to identify the 53 bodies 
recovered so far. Of the 543 pas­
sengers and crew, 408 sur­
vived. 
The Herald of Free Enter­
prise fell on its port side outside 
this port about 15 minutes after 
departing Friday night for 
Dover, England. 
On Sunday, two salvage ships carrying giant cranes moved in on the stricken vessel. The un­recovered corpses were presumed trapped under heavy debris or in sections of the boat inaccessible to divers. 






Building 
continuedfrom page 1 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh said,"The generosity of John Loftus will both enhance the quality of stu­dent life and undergird Notre Dame's splendid athletic tradi­tion." 
Loftus, a native of Dixon, Ill., earned a Notre Dame monogram in basketball. Said Loftus: "This building acknowledges in a small way what the spirit of Notre Dame has meant within my family." 
Anti·VIolence Activist 
Conlllf for Teaching Non·VIolonce & NCTV full·llme etaff. Lodging & $6000/yr. ReMarch on oggreoelon, ctearlnghouoo, publlohlng & lobbying ogolnet violence Including TV, film, war toye, eporto, llfollca. Naxtto U llllnolo. Student toano deferable. 217·384-tg20_ 
P.O. Box 2t57, Champaign IL 81820 

The Observer Monday, March 9, 1987-page 4 

Security Beat 
The following incidents were re­ported to Notre Dame Security this week: 
Friday 
12:40 a.m. -An off-eampus gradua~e student's car was damaged while 1t was parked in the C-1lot. The damage was caused by another vehicle in a hit­and-run accident. No estimate of damage has been set. 
2:15a.m.-An off-eampus student re­ported the theft of his leather flight Jacket from the coat roo~ at t~e Alumni-Senior Club. The Jacket IS valued at $275. 
3:27 a.m. -A resident of Dillon Hall reported that he had been assaulted while at Chip's Lounge on S. Eddy Street. The assault took place at ap­proximately 2 a.m. The student was treated at St. Joseph Medical Center for minor injuries. Security is inves­tigating for possible suspects. 
2:00p.m.-The rector of Flanner Hall reported the theft of a set of window drapes from the elevator lobby of Flanner. The loss is approximately $500. There are no suspects at this time. 


Reagan 
continued/rom page 1 
Senate select committee chairman Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, is known to favor im­munity for key figures in the affair but wants to avoid con­tentiousness over the issue and would like to have any decision be unanimous or near unani­
mous. 


WVFI 
continued/rom page 1 
last day of classes before finals," McDaniel said. 
She said the station originally planned to begin broadcasting during the first week of March. "While we've received the equipment, trans­mitters and rack cabinets, we're still installing that equip­ment. 
"The equipment took longer to build than we and the com­pany expected," said McDaniel. She said she was hop!ng the equipment would ar­rive before March, "but it didn't arrive until last Friday." 
Another reason for the delay was that the station asked for special metering devices. "These meters can detect prob­lems with the transmissions of air waves, such as problems with the sound quality, or in­ability to broadcast to a certain dorm," said Me Daniel. 
She said a company called Radio Systems, Inc., based in Edgemont, Penn. is manufac­turing the equipment. 
The station decided to broad­cast with "100 percent facility power instead of using the old equipment which may produce more static. We want to make sure the system is tested and fine," she said. 
The offices will move from the O'Shaughnessy Towers to the second floor of LaFortune. McDaniel said not all of the equipment in the new office is new. "We have. the same turnt­able, cassette deck, and pro­gram board." 
McDaniel said the station 
may conduct a big promotional 
campaign because the station 
has been off the air for so long. 
She said staff morale is high. "They're psyched to get back from break and get on the air. Everyone has missed broad­casting," she said. 

3:15p.m. -A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that another vehicle had struck and damaged his car while it was parked in the Main Circle. Damage is estimated at $300. 
3:47p.m.-A Law School student re­ported that his wallet was stolen from his coat while he was in the library of the Law School. The coat was left on a chair in one of the study areas. Loss is set at $25. 
4:50 p.m. -A resident of Sorin Hall reported that vandalism had been done to his car while it was parked in the D-2 lot. The right wing vent latch was broken but no entry was made to the car. Damage is estimated at $100. 
9:00p.m-A University employee re­ported that the hood ornament from her car had been broken off while it was in the bookstore lot. Damage is set at $50. 
9:15p.m.-A resid~nt of O'Hara-Grace reported the theft of her bike. The bike was locked near the Engineering building at the time of the theft. Loss · is $80. 
10:30 p.m.-A resident of Mishawaka reported that the hood ornament from his 1986 Mercedes Benz was stolen while the car was parked in White Field. Value on the hood ornament is approximately $100. 
10:40 p.m. -Two vehicles were in­volved in a property damage traffic accident near the corner of Edison Road and Juniper Road. The first ve­hicle was stopped in traffic when the second car came from behind and struck the first from the rear. The driver of the second car said he was 
having problems with the brakes. Da­mages to both cars combined is ap­proximately $1,000. 
Saturday 
3:45p.m.-Security along with the ND Fire Department responded to Sorin Hall on an alarm. Upon arrival, units found that two posters on a bulletin board on the third floor had been set on fire. A third floor resident of Sorin found the fire and extinguished it prior to the arrival of the fire department. 
6:30p.m.-While on patrol, .a security officer found a down vest m the D-2 lot. The vest is being held at security until an owner can be contacted. 
9:40p.m.-A Granger, IN resident re­ported that his jacket was stolen from the arena of the ACC while he was at­tending the High School Sectional bas­ketball game. The victim sets ioss at $100. 
10:59 p.m.-Security and ND Fire De­partment responded to a false fire alarm at the ACC Units from both de­partments checked the building but no sign of fire was found. The alarm is believed to have been caused by a prankster. 
Sunday 
12:25 a.m. -A resident of South Bend reported that his car had been van­dalized while it was parked south of the ACC. The car's sunroof had been broken out and the vents of the car were thrown on the pavement. Damage is set at $220. 
1:45 a.m.-A Dillon Hall resident re­ported that as he was leaving the Alumni-Senior Club in his car, an un­known person struck his car with his bare hand. The driver then stopped the car to find out why this had been done. The suspect then continued to hit the windshield of the car until it cracked. When the driver asked why, the suspect came after the driver. At this point the driver left in his car. Damage is estimated at $200. The suspect is believed to be another Notre Dame stu­dent. 
Indictments expected in Iran deal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Investigators working for the special prose­cutor examining the Iran arms deal expect to bring indict­ments and are studying cri­minal charges against current and former government offi­cials, The New York Times re­ported in Monday editions. 
The newspaper cited law en­forcement officials with knowl­edge of the investigation as saying investigators are focus­ing on at least three felonies: conspiring to defraud the gov­ernment, obstructing justice and making false statements to the government. 
The officials said special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh and his staff had not ruled out anyone, including senior Reagan administration offi­cials, as suspects, according to the Times. 

* *** * ** ** ** ** * * ** * * * * ** ** *** ** **** * *** * * ** * * * * * * * * * * * ** ** * * ** * * * * * ** * * ** * *** * * * ** * ** * * * *  The price of going down-1/ hill at legendary Boyne Mountain just went downhill. per person, quad occupancy. Includes one night's lodging, your next day's skiing and a compli­mentary breakfast. Offer good mid­week, Sunday thr<'1 Igh Thursday, any number of cr .~.1secutive days. Get togethc with your roommate and friends and enjoy Boyne Mountain's 17 superbly groomed runs, 10 lifts, out­door heated swimming pool, Jacuzzi and lively entertainment. Call now for reservations and ask for our Spring Break Special. BayDSUSR Boyne Mountain, Boyne Falls, MI 49713. 800-253-7072 or 616-549-2441.  * * * * * * * * ** * * ** * ** * * * ** * * * * ** ** * * * * * * * * ** * * * * * * * * ** ** * * * ** * * * * ** ** * ** ** * * * ** * * ** * * **** * * * *  



"ie~~_O_i_D_t______________
M-onda-y,M-arch-9,198-7-pa-ge5 

'Amerika' demonstrates realistic loss of freedom 
Elliott Richardson, former Attorney General and Secretary of Defense un­der President Nixon, called it "xenop­hobic and "McCarthyesque .. both ludi­crous and dangerously misleading." Jeff Cohen of Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting groaned that "this shows the Soviets as dying to get at us.. it's the premise that's the problem.',:.Jts star, Kris Kristofferson, was disgu~d by it. "I hate the idea.'' Veteran Moscow cor­respondent Harrison Salisbury said it unrealistically shows a future United States "turning into a mass of quiver­ing protoplasm." So what was all the fuss about? Believe it or not, it was about ABC's miniseries Amerika. 
Kevin Smant 
guest column 

The show, charged left-wing critics, portrayed the Soviet Union as evil con­querors desiring nothing less than the total subjugation of the United States. In this way, it raises the temperature of East-West relations and possibly brings us a step closer to war. Part of Amerika was shot on location in Toronto. During the filming, protesters garbed in white robes drifted slowly 



P.O.BoxQ 
Only abstinence can stop AIDS epidemic 

Dear Editor: 
It was disappointing to read Tom Varnum's article appearing in the Feb. 25 edition of The Observer. Mr. Var­num's "preventive cure" for AIDS is reflective of the very same attitude which led to the intitial rise of the dis­ease -whatever feels good, do it; have sex, but make it "safe"; "protect your­self." I fail to understand how one fights promiscuity with invitation toward in­creasing promiscuity -and the adver­tising of condoms is just that. It will no more reduce the cases of AIDS than promoting the "pill" was "supposed" to decrease the number of unwanted pregnancies. The quick fix is really no fix; it only treats the symptoms of a much deeper and much more fatal problem. 
Doonesbury 
through the streets, holding lighted candles, and passing out leaflets. Propaganda Alert, screamed their message. The Cold War Comes To Our Neighborhood! 
In a way, peace protesters of this kind have always had powerful argumenta­tive tools. With shaky voice and un­steady hands they point to the gloom of cemeteries filled with war dead; to the pictures of the utter destruction and waste left by atomic bombs in Hiros­hima and Nagasaki; and to the current piles of nuclear weapons stocked by the Superpowers. War must be avoided at all costs, they preach. Hence a con­frontation with the Soviets, too, must be avoided. 
We on the other side have no such visible reminders. We have only an abstract ideal -one that is con­spicuously missing from the arguments of many peace activists. That ideal is freedom. And it is here that ABC's Amerika performs it most valuable ser­vice. Amerika presented to us, in living color, a horrifying vision of what it would mean to lose our freedom. Schoolchildren in this type of society are indoctrinated with a Marxist ver­sion of history. Capitalist America was evil, filled with enslaved workers and 
the decadent, wealthy few. The new or­der brings a vision of "socialist brot­herhood.'' All opponents of this new vi­sion must be "crushed.'' Talent is no longer the only criterion, a dancer is told. One now must also "cooperate." Those people that, for one reason or another, have run afoul of the govern­ment are "exiled" to distant places, and must live in shantytowns amid poverty and squalor. All news filters through a "National Network"; un­desirable happenings are censored. Due to the lack of food (the bulk of which has been expropriated for more deserving socialist brothers), coffee shops serve soybean pancakes and er­satz coffee. In order to travel from one "administrative district" to another in this new Amerika, one must have a spe­cial passport -obtainable only from the government. Sould one break any law, a "psychiatric hospital" could be one's next stop, in order to eliminate "antiso­cial behavior.'' And one could go on and on. 
It is important for us to see such things. Today, in our country, we have the freedom to believe what we wish, to live where we wish, and to worship what we wish. Almost no country has our material abundance. But what many seem not to understand is that 
Self-denial does not have to become a fad before it becomes livable. The Christian message is one of purification rather than self-gratification, and in­cludes the recognition that death may mean spiritual as well as physical. 
Robert Nicholas 


The Church is allowed to make some mistakes 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Steve Hipp's March 4 column, "Conscience Must be Formed Using Moral Precepts," I would like to share the observations of a Church his­torian. 
I did not attend Regina Coil's lecture, but based on the information provided by Mr. Hipp -what he terms "representative quotes" which I will presume capture the gist of her talk ­I remain puzzled as to how he can con­clude that Coli "rejects the authority of the magisterium.'' I see nothing overtly anti-Catholic in what she said. In fact, her basic argument, that the Church is culturally conditioned and in a constant process of historical evolu­tion, is not some fabrication of dissident American theologians. This view of the organic development of the Church ­commonplace among professional his­torians and theologians -was cogently argued by John Henry Newman back in the nineteenth century. 
In condemning Coli's view of the evolution of the Church, Mr. Hipp demonstrates that he has an a­historical understanding of the Catholic tradition. Does he really believe that Jesus gave us the Roman Catholic Church and all of its disciplinary decrees lock, stock and barrel? No in­formed thinker would defend such an anachronistic view of Church history. 
If Mr. Hipp were to crack open a good history book of the Church, he would 
Garry Trudeau 
freedom, this abstract ideal, must be defended. Communist and other totalitarian regimes are not blind. They know, deep inside, that given a choice, people will choose a free society. Mil­lions of residents from behind the Iron Curtain have thus "voted with their feet" since 1945. There would be more, but such hindrances as the Berlin Wall, barbed wire borders, and mine fields have deterred would-be escapees. It should be no surprise, then, that there are those in this world who do not wish freedom well. In that sense, Amerika was right on target. 
Americans, than, need to realize their blessings. They need to participate in their democracy to assure its continued survival. We should be proud of what we have built here. And we need not be ashamed to take the steps necessary to defend it. Nikolai Vishnevsky of the So­viet Novosti "news agency" growled that the airing of Amerika would "boost anti-Sovietism.'' Well, anti-Soviet atti­tudes aren't as prevalent as I would like, Nikolai. But as long as the Soviet Union stands for what it does, I'll keep trying. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history. 
find numerous instances where some of the Church's teachings -culturally and historically conditioned as they were -were re-examined, re-defined or scrapped. For example, the medieval Church condemned usury in no uncer­tain terms, but no prelate or pope would argue today that charging interest on a loan is a mortal sin. 
I think that Mr. Hipp needs to take a second look at what magisterial author­ity means and how it is formed. We Catholics are not Biblical fundamen­talists, nor should we look upon every word which issues from a pope or car­dinal as an infallible statement (the pope is only infallible when he speaks ex cathedra, and how often does he do that?) After all, the Church, though a divine institution, is run by men; and men, even those of good will, some­times make mistakes. 
Timothy Thibodeau Off-Campus 

7HE AoS N()(Q /?IJNNIN6 ON 
THE OEMIWIJHA'3 PfCKEJ) UP 50
CON[)(J5. Uf.VC 

/t1lKJ{ AT~ 7HitT 71:1E[()M­
40 5TATIOA5. IT'S AlREAPYA
IJ5t THEM 



/owr 

8/G HIT IN TH/3 MARJ<£T­
R4NY15 lEA'SING FRANOI/5l'3 7D
IN GO(){) BELIEVE 

CAMPIJS REPS!
5PEVAUY
· IQHATI'M 

-'-'•''"'~' INttn THE YOUNG
IQATOI/N6. 
THE R&5TLE$.
I 


Quote of the day 

"Love is not love until you give it away." 
Oscar Hammerstein "The Sound ofMusic" 

General Board 


Ibe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chrts Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Adverts/ng Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Wamke ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necesserlly reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark McLaughlin of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to aU members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1888 

-----~-----------­


Accent 
Monday, March 9, 1987-page 6 

Come and play, everything's A-OK 

I 
didn't know I was going Dame, one of the finer univer­kids choir vocal. Think of the laugh, but it got me every 
to start the newest college sities In the nation. l wonder If ensuing pandemonium if you time. played It at a party. Some The point was though that
trend last Monday when I it would be overstating the smart band out there will cover you were learning stuff even as
flicked on my little TV after a point to say that "Sesame 
it some day and make a mil-you were laughing. Watchinghard day In Academia-Land. Street" started my curiousity lion bucks. "Sesame Street" again made
Somebody had accidentally left for knowledge and, in that way, The amazing thing about me wonder about how smart I
my baby tube tuned Into helped me get here. "Sesame Street" is that even as ~s then. I never realized
(gasp!) PBS. l was happily Somehow over the years, 1 watched ft. grinning at things some of the subtleties going
surprised to feel a vague wash "Sesame Street" has escaped 1 recognized, puzzling over a on. I never caught the TV-base
of nostalgia at PBS's ancient the sniping and media raping 
time in my past when concepts that "Sesame Street" was settell-tale station lD. Then came that other of my favorite child­like loud and soft, under and Into. The show Is broken down
a tidal wave of childhood an­hood shows received. Who, for over, and high and tow were into basic five minutes seg­
ticipation at the opening Instance, besides a five-year­hard to grasp, there were little ments, separated by spots for kids out there somewhere who the various letters and num­were watching It and absorbing bers which always "sponsor"
Kevin Walsh 

it all for the first time. The the show. I guess It gives kids ideas of cooperation and the a format they're comfortable 
Behind the screen door number 12 are new to these with. I never realized all the little guys. It must be a great obvious puns either. I counted feeling to create something like six during the show I watched 
cnoras ot an almost-forgotten old, can taKe Mr. Kogers or various things. There is also a and that doesn't even Include
this which spans generations, fy
theme song. captain Kangaroo seriously goo • two-headed monster the Count, who, of
giving so much to so many for f th 1 t h0
"Sesame Street." anymore? l think "Sesame romano er Pane w course,counts. 
It was as much a part of my Street" avoided these snares by so long. teaches about cooperation. I Also, unbeknownst to 
single-digit years as Ute-Brite, trying to stay hip if only in a also noted the marked absence thousands of little kids out 
Action Jackson, "The Donny naive sort of way. The show I of Big Bird and Snuffalupagus. there watching. "Sesame 
and Marie Show," or the elusive watched on Monday had a "Seize the moment Surprisingly, some of the Street" parodied Indiana Jones, 
64-pack of Crayola crayons. reggae re-working of the etas-things here are exactly the James Bond, "casablanca" and 
Like all of those however, there sic, bath-glorifying "Rubber it said. The pres-same. All the main characters "The Sound of Music," in which 
was an unseen axis somewhere Ducky." I remember from my are still around: Susan, Gor-the hills actually came alive back in my past which turned days as a religious watcher of ent Is the most don, Bob, Luis, David, Maria with the sound of music. 
me away from "Sesame Street" the show there were a couple important thing. and Olivia. Mr. Hooper Is of It's probably too much to say 
without a warning. Beatles take-offs, "Letter B" A I t course dead now. All of the that 1got a start on a moral "Sesame Street" had a and "Hey Food." Later they ppreC a e every little spots about letters and sense from "Sesame Street,.. greater effect on me than any moved Into Bruce Springsteen day." numbers seemed familiar -"E but it wouldn't be a bad place of those other things though. It with Bert and the Sesame is forelephant who eats up an to start. It's one of the few was an acquired taste which Street band's reading of "Born egg. E is for eagle...etc." places left on earth that my parents forced me to ac-To Count." I'm not making any Maybe "Sesame Street" is espouses that great old •60s quire. I was watching "Sesame of this up. Like anything useful, where l got my penchant for "Peace, Love and Understand-Street" long before l could read The theme song could prob-"Sesame Street" has changed bad poetry. The highlight for ing" message. It's set in a or count and in that way It pro-ably hit the Top Twenty if over the years. There's a new me in every show was when multi-ethnic urban neighbor­vides an invaluable link to an released today. If the Monkees major character, an old owl the baker would walk out and hood with no crime, no racism unreachable part of my distant can get back there, anybody named Hoots who acts like an sing something like "10 Won-and no graffiti. The only past. "Sesame Street" was the can. It's actually a great song. old-time jazz man and plays derful Spongecakes !I!" before eyesore is Oscar The Grouch's beginning of my education, an with a slowed-down acoustic saxophone. He has a naive falling down a set of stairs and trash can home and even that education which will have its Chuck Berry riff, jangling little granddaughter named getting the cakes all over him-has a certain charm to it. The 
rfo;,;r~m•a;.;l..e;,;n;,;dii.ioih.iiie.,re-at;..;...;N.-o.;.;tr.-e___....;g~u-1.-ta;;.;r.-s;..,,;,;h.;.;a,;,;rm-o,;,;n,;,;;ica;,;.;a;;,;n,;,;d;;...;;th.;.;e;..__..;,M.;.;e;,;t,;,;;h,;,en;.;;a;;;,..;,to;...;,w;.;,h.;.;o;.;,m;.;..;h.;.;e;..;;.;tea;;;;;;c.;.;h,;,es;...__s_e.;.l,..f...;l.;.t.;.w;.;,a;.;,s..;a;;...;;c;.;,hea;;.:p;;..;;;s.;.;la~p;,;;;s.;;;ti.;.ck:.;_--.,r adults on "Sesame Street" were perhaps overly benevolent and maybe didn't prepare me for a world full of cruelty and indif­ference. We all get enough of that in the real world. We don't need it on a TV show that formulates our minds. 
Perhaps the most important message I got out of watching "Sesame Street" last Monday came in a little skit about memories of the past and how they can blind a person to the realities of the present and the hope of the future. (Sure that's kind of a heavy interpretation to a piece which involved green turtle puppets that talk. but...) S!eze the moment it said. The present is the most Important thing. Appreciate every day. It was an Ironic message to get out of a television trip down memory lane. 
I would recommend "Sesame Street" to anyone of any age now. It'll be the new college craze in a while, you watch. Settle down some Friday after­noon with a few beers. Bag the car~oons, just like your mom always told you. Watch "Sesame Street." I'll guarantee you more laughs than any "Mr. Belvedere" rerun. A simple pocket of your childhood still exists every afternoon on PBS. 
Editor's Note: 
Because ofdelivery problems, the McNaught Syndicate soap 
opera update will not appear this week. The update will con· 
The Gong Show 

These children from St. Hedwlgs Outreach Program were the 
tinue to run each Monday when

beneficiaries of the freshman class sponsored Gong Show on 
The Observer resumes pub­

Friday evening. The Gong Show benefit raised approximate­
lication after Spring Break. 


----------~ ----­
The Observer Monday, March 9, 1987 -page 7 
Sports Briefs 
Dillon Hall won the Heart Lights 5K run team competition Thursday afternoon. The Big Red scored 116 points, followed by Flanner with 122 and Off Campus with 
147. In the women's individual competition, Kerry Wagner won the race, followed by Kathleen Birmingham and Kath­leen Maglicic. In the men's individual competition, Jeff Miller took first, followed by David McCaw and Jim Con­way. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team lost its first three games of the season this weekend against Indiana. Saturday, the Irish fell, 4-3, and the Hoosiers also took both games Sunday, 4-2 and 3-0. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice today through Thursday this week at 4 p.m. at the Rockne Pool. All members are encouraged to attend. For more infor­mation contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
TheBookstoreBasketbaiiXVIcaptains'meeting will be held Wednesday, March 25 at 7 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. Schedules will be distributed and tournament announcements will be made at this time. For more in­formation contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
Comeback 
continuedfrom page 12 
in the last minute. 
"In the second half, we felt that if you go at Dayton more and get them in foul trouble, you're going to create more. I thought we just stayed with it long enough to where once we got the lead, we just iced it. We iced it with foul shooting and with good defense when Dayton was starting to take the longer shots and we got the rebounds." 
The Irish started the game with Sean Connor filling in for Scott Hicks, who sprained his ankle in the Miami (Fla.) game last Thursday. The sprain was not serious, but Phelps decided to let Hicks rest his ankle in order to get him ready for the NCAA tournament. 
Dayton head coach Don Donoher started all four of his seniors, guard Dan Christie, forwards Anthony Grant and Ed Young and center Don Hughes, in the team's last home game of the season. 
The Irish took an early 3-0 lead when Stevenson was fouled on a power layup. Stevenson finished with 13 points, including a perfect seven-of-seven from the line. But Dayton guard Noland Rob­inson and forward Anthony Corbitt went to work on the Irish inside to give the Flyers a lead they would hold until late in the second half. 
Irish forward Scott Paddock fouled Corbitt as he made a layup. The free throw gave Dayton a 17-15 lead. Corbitt then went baseline for a field goal, and Robinson added a short jumper and two layups to increase the lead to 23-17, firing up the crowd at UD Arena. 
Meanwhile Notre Dame was ice cold from the field, shooting .267 in the first half. 
"The first half we had good shots, but we weren't making those shots," said Phelps. "Rivers, Royal and Stevenson were four for 21 in the first half, and that's just horrible. You're not going to beat people doing that on the road and you're not going to beat people in the tournament." 
Rivers took control in the second half, hitting six-of-eight shots from the field, including the three-pointer. On one layup, the junior guard cut around three defenders to make the shot. He finished with a game-high 19 points. 
Irish center Gary Voce was the only player in double fig­ures in rebounds. Voce grabbed 11, several of those down the stretch when Notre Dame closed the gap. 
J a mere Jackson saw the most playing time since early in the season, registering 22 minutes. The freshman guard was two­of-three from the field and grabbed three rebounds. 
Dayton's Grant and Corbitt both took Irish defenders into the paint before pulling up for short jumpers. Grant finished the game with 17 and Corbitt added 14. 

The Obunler Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Ob..,., Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfledsls 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 

Lowest Scheduled Fares to all of Europe 
!rom Chicago. Call 1(BOO) 325·2222. 
......................... 
Wordproceselng· Typing 
272-8827 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 
277-7~06 

PRO-TYPE Quality woric, word proceaelng evelleblllty, r..110neble $. 2IT·5833. 
POST-GRAD OPPORTUNITIES FOR VOLUNTEERS IN EDUCATIONAL & SOCIAL SERVICES AT CSC FROM 2· ~p.m ON MARCH 9. STOP BY FOR FURTHER INFO. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS COKER, 233-7009 
Wordproceeelng 2IT-8131 

\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL DROP EARRING SONMEWHERE BETWEEN FARLEY AND CUSHING ...GREAT SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL HEATHER £3878. 
........................................ 

Found: leather jacket. Call 283-3507 and sek lor GarreH. 
LOST: EEL-SKIN WALLETI Probably lost In the engineering auditorium or at the S.dlning hall on Sat., the 21st of February. If found please contact John Euatermann at t 086. Please kaep trying to get ahotd of me, ancltlr leave a mes­sage wt phone Cl I really need the waiietl 
LOST: the phone r ol the girl named Suzie (Susan) who posalbly found John Euotermann'a WALLET! Please call me beck I I've tried to contact you but to no avail! I need the wallet deaperatelyll call 263·1088, or stop by room 203 Alumni Hall. You'll make my day. 
LOST: AIRLINE TICKETS ON EAST AN· GELA BLVD. ON :Y.! AT APPROX. 8:00 
A.M. PLEASE CALL 232·9835 OR 283· 28IT (LEAVE A MESSAGE). THANKSII 
............................................................ 
LOST: MAROON WALLET YV BLACK STRIPES AND VELCRO FLAP. LOST AT CAMPUS VIEW APARTMANTS, MARCH 2. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KURT AT £3289 OR COME TO 235 KEENAN. $10,000 REWARDIII 
LOST--Hat, Cat, In French 'chat chapeau' REWARD, REWARD, REWARD, and REWAROI Somebody's got my thrae-handled family gradunzai That's rlghtl My GOLF HAT. And I really need It back. So PeeWae'a puttln' up a $1,000,000.24 reward. GOLF HAT LOST on Mon.Mar.2, In South Dining Hall. Tan with uniquely bent brim, patch says: BEL­LEVUE COUNTRY CLUB. Name says C.R.Dougherty. C'mon, please call 3110 with any Info. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287·8389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255·3884-286·0955 
WANTED 
GOVERNMENT JOBSI Now hiring In your area, both skilled and unskilled. For list of jobs and application, Call (815) 383-2827 Ext J316. 
I NEED RIDES TOFROM MIDWAY AIR· PORT I naed to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm on Fri. Mar. t 3 and I need a ride back to NO from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. lcould leave the airport anytime aHsr 6:00 am. CALL PAUL £2287. 
I desperately need a ride to North Carolina for spring break. John £3362 
................................................ 
2-4 GIRLS NEED RIDE TO SC OR DAYTONA AREA 4 BREAK £13471.3725 
NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS! Will share expances, anything! Please call 3887 or 3520. 
TAU GREEN CORPORATION National Lawn Care Company seeks de· pandable, hardworking Individuals for lull or part-time sales. Morning and evening shifts are available. Must be able to com­municate wJth potential customers elfec­tlllely. Sales experience helpful, but will train the right parson. Call 233·9700 during business hours -8 am to 9 pm. Ask for Kyle or Pierre. 
CAMPUS PAINTERS Ltd. NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSEPAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUBURBS. CALL TO AR· RANGE AN INTERVIEW 312-251-0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 290t CENTRAL STREET· EVANSTON, II. 60201 
Anyone going to,through or near Atlanta for break :If you need two riders to share expanses, call John 1t 58 and leave message.we are desparatel 
SHOW ME 
THE WAY TO OLD ST. LOUIEI Need a rlda to St. Louis for Spring Break. Can leave anytime Friday. Will share ex­panses. Call Laura at X3722. 
HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP ME, HELP 
MElli 

I naed a ride to Brookville, IN. If you are on your way to CINCINNATI or that GEN­ERAL DIRECTION, give me a call at X3722. Ask for Melissa. Thanxllllll 
RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 MARCH13 TO ROANOKE, VA OR KNOXVILLE, TN AREA 
CALL: MATI-4793 OR JEFF-3481 
I need a ride to HARRISBURG or CENTRAL PA for S.B. PLEASE CALL 284-4136 
................................................................ 
HELPI I NEED A RIDE TO N.J. FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL TIM AT 1054. 
Need Ride to AKRON-CANTON or Exit t 1 (Ohio Trnpk) lor Spring Break -Paul 4052 
Want to have fun In tha sun, but no ride there! Need ride or riders to Ft. Lauder­dale area during spring break ...call Katie x4203 
................................................................ 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO SO. FLA.??? Lv. 3·13 2pm to W.P.B. Area Space tor 
2. Share $$. Call Kevin £1472 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THURS. 2"12. CALL JANE X3757 
HELPI I need a ride to central N.V.(Syracuse,or anywhere close) lor spring break. Call Gary at 1153 
Olerng rd-tp ride to Clev tor brk 255-1508 
_MADISON TAKE ME THERE FOR BREAKI PLEASE CALL BARB AT 1349 
NEED RIDE TOFROM DC FOR BREAK CALL HELEN 287·0531 AFTER 6PM 
help! Need ride to PhJia_ will share ex­panses. call Toe, Ct 091 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK SPECIAL ONE WAY TICKET TO LOS ANGELES OPEN TICKET GOOD THRU MAR 23 $89 CALL TIM 272-2339 
2 one-way tlx Chicago to NV 18 May 1987 $75 ea cell Steph ~77·8241 
CAR FOR SALE: 73' Buick; 75,000 miles; reliable student cer. $550 or best alter. Call Tony at 287-3923­
Compact Disk Player lor sale. Audiophile quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program­mable. Remote. Lists tor St ,295.00 but will sell for $800.00. Call evenings before 10 pm at 2IT·5912 or days at 239·7133. 
RT PLANE TIX FOR SALE FOR SPRING BREAK OR GOING HOME TO WEST COAST/TUCSON, ARIZONA Leave 3'15 Return :¥.!3 to O'HARA $130 RT CHEAP PLEASE HELP ME, CALL JJ X3255 OR 287-5404 OR SEND MESS. TO 141 KEENAN 
$250. worth of TWA flight vouchers lor sale. $200. Call 233·8262. 
TICKETS 

GRAD TIX NEEDED, If you are planning on ordering lesa than tour tlx cell Rich at 3336 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or IHH • car. 238-2200. Financ­Ing available lor ell US etatee. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 

•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now & Save •• " $90 RT Tlx to Newark •• •• Leave 3'12, Return :¥.!1 •• •• Call X3586 NOW " 
Thank you St. Jude for your help­
Thank you St. Jude for your help· 
Thank you St. Jude for your help· 
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOWI CALL 272-4135. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
•• 194 •• 

DIRECTOR OF VOLUNTEERS IN EDU· CATIONAL & SOCIAL SERVICES AT CSC TODAY FROM 2-4p.m. ALL ARE WELCOME TO GET FURTHER INFO. 
SPRING BREAK LOANS Morrl88ey Loan Fund All Students Eligible Except May 87 Grads $2(}-200 30 days 1% interest 2nd Fl Lafortune 11 :30·12:30 M-F 

Need graduation tickets. Will sell my roommate for them. Call Mark at 2339. 
HEY DUDES· LOOKING FOR 2 ROOMATES TO SHARE NO AV APT FOR 87·88-PREFER PARTVERS. CALL 
CHRISPAUL 232·3629 

HE DID NOT HAVE A NAME FOR HIS AROUSAL. SO HE CALLED IT ROLLO. 
DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH 
TO A SISTER '88 DOMER WHO SENT ME THE CHARM AND BEAUTIFUL LET· TEA: YOU HAVE TAUGHT ME MORE ABOUT THIS FAMIL V THAN I COULD EVER KNOW. THANK YOU FOR MAKING THIS PLACE TRUL V SPE· CIAL. I WISH I KNEW YOUR NAME, BUT KNOW THAT I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU. THANKS AGAIN, CONI RICH 
I don't want to CHOKE on a SENIOR FORMAL bid. If Interested, cell SHAFTED at 288·2912 
Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 2887. 
Desperately need one graduation ticket. Need money? Spring Break Is coming next waekl Call 2890. 
Mark "Mickey Mouse" Mclaughlin -Would you like to take the monorail over tor dinner? There are still a few who think you are a figment. Dinner will be as exciting as SPACE MOUNTAIN AND THE HAUNTED HOUSE combined II Love, The Mouskateers at Epcot Center 
Need Ride to ST. LOUIS 

for Break Can leave on Fri. & will help wlexpanses. Call Kim at SMC5481 
Happy Birthday to my predominantly March-bam family: Anne (19th), Dad (21st), and Eric (25th). ·S. Houser 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER UN· TIL AFTER SPRINO BREAK. COME UP TO THE OBSERVER TODAY OR TO. MORROW TO PUT IN YOUR CLASS!· FlED ADS BEFORE BREAK. 
We are the kids from Camp AleiiD'We Oketo drink beers for quarters and dimes! We love Mike Steinberg-He Is our coun­selot/Aa we go romping over and over 
We are the kids from Camp AleiiD'We like to drink beers for quarters and dimes! We love Mike Steinberg-He Ia our coun­selot/Aa we go romping over and over 
Skip's mind, Aaron's body, Steve's paycheck, THE ULTIMATE MANIII 
LOVE SEX AND THE IRS 
WILL LESLIE COME OUT OF HIS CLOSET? WILL KATE TELL JOHN ABOUT LESLIE? WILL JOHN'S MOM KNOCK OFF THE BOOZIN'? FIND OUT TONIOHTI ROUND UP YOUR FRIENDS AND COME SEE LOVE, SEX, AND THE IRS MARCH 8, 10, 11 WASHINGTON HALL, 8:00 PM. 
PAUL G: ARE YOU SURE YOU'RE A GEEK? SE 
P.S. HOW'S PHOENIX LOOKING? 
HEY STONEERRR, YOU BUTTIII 
COOL D FEVER----KILL IT 
COPERNICUS Is a weanle naa, naa, na, naa, naalll 
Copamicus goes DOWN on Monday In NSL. ··Ptalomey Ptsrtiera 
Will I never understand those who undertake the major of PLS?????? Ptolomey Phtooeyl Love, your normal major roomie 
LOOK OUT, NOTRE DAMEI Barbara DIDomenico Is here-AND SHE'S NOT ONE OF USI 
Congrats to our new RA, Clay • the "dudenesses" of 131. 
Happy Birthday Sue "Spoo" Miller Mo. Robia, and Jugs 
Sue Miller We send the very best to you on your 20th. Wish You Were Here. Wish We Were There. Many Hugs, Dad and Mom 
Sue Miller 
Sue Miller I knew Sue Miller when she was a Cath­olic schoolgirl In Dayton, Ohio. Today she's twenty and I think she's aged pretty well. Call her at 284-4295 and tell her she's hot. Happy Birthday, Sue 
Signed: Son of Gordo 
Some girls are older than other girls' mot· hers. 
Happy Double-Dimes, Soozy. Kiss teenagedom gOOdbye forever. Have a groovy Monday, Modern Day Charlie Brown 
.................................................. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TIM THE PISCESII 
AH SPRING .... A 000 TA 000 SKJEL· 
'I am Superman and I can do anything.' Jim Carroll 
Brunette About 5' 6' Notre Dame Sweatshirt Tennis Shoes Going to her 9:30 Buii·Ugly 
Maybe they're right about Self-estaem and Lost relationships 
But not wasted Time just Misused. 
BeHar II different clearer understood. 
Faellngs take many Forma. Mon ami. 
Lat's flnd the Right 
one. 
I need you to Stand by me. 
L VFETTI EEBA SCHNEEBA JEEBA 
WHEN'S THE LAST TIME YOU WERE TURNED ON? IrS BEEN THREE L-O­N-G, COLD MONTHS FOR US--. 
..CLASS OF 11180-"BIG M.A.C.K. AT­TACK" MATT BRESLIN-PRESIDENT AL DIOIUUO..V.P. CARMINA PEREZ· TREASURER KIM HICHEY· SECRETARY VOTE "BIO M.A.C.K. AT· TACK" 
Dan Cahill is 2t. 
Molly IS Nellie Olsen 
STEVE,RICK & MARTHA I'LL NEVER LEARN MEXICAN. WHO CARES IF I CAN'T HIT MY NOSE RIGHTII GIVE ME A QUARTER & I'LL GIVE YOU A HANGOVER THE NEXT 
DAY. BARBIE 
MAOS Med at me huh? Mad at me huh,huh,huh? You've always got a friend two doors down Lat'a hK the basement again soon. Love you ioada The nlc. flHing queen 
P.S. You Winll anew. here 
'I'm glad you're going away thla weekend.' "Yeah, me too..." what? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO KELLY HAVES THE GREATEST SISTER IN THE WORLD LOVE TRACEY PS REMEMBER LIFE BEGINS AT 221 
Duprae, I'm tellln' ya, Jimmy V. Ia strictly PTP Go Wollleal 
Sockieas One: A little lost puppy Is waKing for adoption. It can drink wine without spilling n. 
-Icy Toes 
A-WHOOSH I 

--------~-~--~--------~~--~-~------...... 
The Observer Monday, March 9, 1987 -page 8 
Irish women end season with win as Gavin, Botham reach milestones 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 

DAYTON, Ohio -The Notre Dame women's basketball season did not end with the sen­timental graduation of seniors, the winning of a conference championship or the garnering of a tournament bid. 
But Saturday at the Univer­sity of Dayton Arena, the 1986­87 campaign ended the way Irish head coach Mary DiS­tanislao wanted it to end. It ended with pride, and with a 59-48 dumping of North Star Conference foe Dayton behind a balanced scoring attack and some scrappy play throughout. 
"Our loss to Tennessee ear­
lier in the year was probably 
the most embarrassing defeat 
this program has ever had," 
said DiStanislao, whose squad 
was blown out, 90-55, by the 
eighth-ranked Volunteers. "We 
had a choice to make. We could 
either finish 7-20, or we could 
work hard and go out winners." 
The Irish chose the latter 
route, and Saturday's victory 
marked their sixth straight 
since the Tennessee disaster, 
giving them a final record of 
12-15 after the slowest start in 
the history of Notre Dame wo­
men's basketball. 

"On paper, you'd have to say the play of Annie (freshman Annie Schwartz) was the key to the turnaround'," said DiS­tanislao. "But the heart and soul of it was the juniors -Mary Gavin, Sandy Botham and 
NIT field is almost filled 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Villanova, col­lege basketball's national champion in 1985, leads the field for the 50th edition of the National Invitation Tourna­ment, it was announced last night. 
The Wildcats, 15-15, were among the 30 teams named to the field. The remaining two teams, as well as the sites for two of the games, will be an­nounced today. Missing from the list of 30 was Louisville, the defending national champion which was passed over by the NCAA for its field of 64 earlier Sunday. 
Booth 

•. $2.50 each visit 6 visits for $13.95 
Bed $5.00 each visit 
E) visits for $27.00 

Kathy Barron. They've done a great job leading and the others have done just as good a job following." 
Schwartz, who has found her role as a constant threat from the outside for the Irish, scored 14 points and hauled down a game-high eight rebounds, while Botham worked the middle for 14 points of her own. 
Notre Dame scored 11 con­secutive points and jumped out to an early 11-2 lead, but the hot hand of Michele Kruty brought the Lady Flyers back to within striking range. An Irish run near the end of the half gave Notre Dame a 25-18 lead at intermission, and Dayton never pulled to within seven the rest of the way. 
At times it seemed amazing that no punches were thrown in the contest (outside of a few minor. shoves during the course of play), as the game turned into an endless struggle for po­sition. 
"Our games with Dayton and DePaul are always wars," DiS­tanislao said. "It's the rivalry -but I love it. It gives us extra incentive. 
"We thought that if we con-· 
trolled the boards and shut 
down their inside game, we 
could take it to them. (Kathy) 
O'Brien hurt us (17 points, 15 
in the second half), but we hung 
tough and were hitting our 
shots in the second half." 

Botham and leading Irish scorer Heidi Bunek, Notre Dame's version of the Twin Towers, were both hit with their fourth fouls early in the second half, and were out of the game for a crucial four-minute stretch from the 11 :00 to 7: 03 marks. 
During that time, freshman walk-on Molly Mahoney lined up in the middle of the 2-3 zone, and the Irish held on to a nine­point lead until Botham and Bunek were re-inserted. 
Notre Dame outshot the Flyers, 53.2 percent to 37.5 per­cent, and also had a. pair of players reach milestones in the game. 
Botham's second of two free throws with 18: 23 left in the first half marked her 1,000th career point. She is the fifth player in Irish history to reach that milestone. 
Gavin dished out nine more assists in the game, giving her a career total of 194 and sur­passing Mary Beth Schueth's old mark of 187 to make her Notre Dame's all-time leader. 
Freshman Cathy Emigholz gave the Irish a boost with her hard-nosed play, especially in the second half, as she picked up 10 points. Gavin added nine and sophomore Diondra Toney eight. 
"It's always too soon to quit," DiStanislao smiled, "and never too late to be a win­ner." 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

rNDAVE~1 
§ §§ Early Bird Special § §§ 
~ Now renting for Fall 
~ 2 Bedrooms completely § furnished § Sign up before break and §§ receive 'U 10% discount 
Call 234-6647
§ 

~ 
~ 
§t 
§ 
§ Pro.tected by Pinkerton Security t 
l~~··.Q><Q>.q,.q..~!,~.J,<Q'><Q><Q.<Q><Q><Q>·.Q><Q><Q>§ 
IAMERICAN 


The Observer /Greg Kohs 

Heidi Bunek and the Notre Dayton on Saturday. Marty Dame women's basketball Strasen has the game coverage team wrapped up its season by at left. posting a 59-48 victory at 
----~·­
~ 

Sisters Office Services TYPING **Term Papers** Reports
R 

· esume Preparation Grammar and Spelling Corrected 282_8593 
425 N. Michigan 
Suite 202 South Bend, IN 46601 

..______S_!]J_e_c_ia_l_R_a_te_'S_R_o_r_S_t_u_d_e_n_ts______, 
LEAVING
WCANCER 
NOTRE DAME

NOTRE DAME
'SOCIE1Y~ 
LEAVE
LEAVE 
ARRIVE
MIDWAY

NOTRE ARRIVE
ARRIVE 
LEAVE MICHIANA
AT

DAME MIDWAY 
O'HARE AIRPORT

O'HARE 
MIDWAY

BUS AIRPORT 
SOUTH BEND
AIRLINES
SHELTER 

6:20p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:45p.m. 8:20p.m. 10:00p.m. 
*

TAN-fWWL 
4;20a.m. 6:00a.m.
Spring Break * 
6:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 7:45a.m. 8:20a.m. 10:00a.m. 9:45a.m. 10:20a.m. 12:00p.m. 11:45a.m.

Special 

12:20p.m. 2:00p.m. 1:45p.m. 2:20p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:45p.m. 4:20p.m. 6:00p.m. 5:45p.m. 
All ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. 
CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS I TIMES.
sun tcnr1rg sct:n 

FOR RESERVATIONS (119) 674-6993
JMS PLAZA 4609 GRAPE RD" MISHAWAKA, IN 
Combo 3 Bed I 3 Booth $19.95 
RETURNING TO 
*  8:15a.m.  11:35a.m.  
9:50a.m.  10:15a.m.  1:35p.m.  
11:50a.m.  12:15p.m.  3:35p.m.  
1:50p.m.  2:15p.m.  5:35p.m.  
3:50p.m.  4:15p.m.  7:35p.m.  
5:50p.m.  6:15p.m.  9:35p.m.  
7:50p.m.  8:15p.m.  11:35p.m.  
10:30p.m.  10:15p.m.  1:35a.m.  
*  12:30 a.m.  3:35a.m.  

ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER 
11:50a.m. 1:50p.m. 3:50p.m. 5:50p.m. 7:50p.m. 9:50p.m. 11:50p.m. 1:50a.m. 3:50a.m. 




2n-1o2s 

Monday, March 9, 1987 -page 9 

The Observer 


The Observer Monday, March 9, 1987-page 10 
Irish hockey ends year, takes sec,ond in ACHA playoffs 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 

It was the American Col­legiate Hockey Association's first tournament, Lefty's last, and Michigan-Dearborn's best. The Wolves came from the fourth seed to win, beating the Irish 6-4 in Saturday night's championship game. 
Notre Dame played its best game of the year Friday night in crushing Lake Forest 4-1, while Michigan-Dearborn beat Kent State 6-1 to set up Satur­day's final. 

Lefty 
continuedjrompage 12 

and 50 players sent to major college hockey. 
In taking the Notre Dame head coaching position in 1968, Smith undertook the task of building a program literally from the ground up, since var­sity hockey had not been played since the days of the Four Horsemen. He even had to buy the equipment and run the ice rink. 
The program has developed considerably in his 19 seasons. The Irish joined the Western Collegiate Hockey Association in 1970, where Smith quickly led the program to national prominance. During the 1972-73 season, the Irish powered their way to the WCHA finals, losing on a controversial goal in the final minutes to Wisconsin. That team featured eventual NHL stand-out Bill Nyrop, and Smith was voted coach of the year for his efforts in molding the team. 
During the 1981-82 season, 
the Irish switched from the 
WCHA to the Central Collegiate 
Hockey Association. Smith's 
star that year was Dave Poulin, 
now the captain of the Philadel­
phia Flyers. 

After dropping the program down to the club level in 1983­84, Smith regrouped his players and began once again to rebuild. He realizes that, with­out scholarships, it is tough to compete with some of the other schools. 
"We have to recruit a special kind of player," Smith says. "He has to be intelligent, have 
i{ Sunshine Promotions Presents i{it -In Concert-it 
t HUEY LEWIS and t 
t The News t
it it ~ Sunday April 5 ~ it 7:30 pm Notre Dame ACC it t Reserved seats: $16.50 · t 
~ Ticket sale for ~ it NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS it it will take place tomorrow, 9:00 am it it at the ticket windows located at gate 3 it it of the ACC (Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of it ~ four (4) tickets per student. VALID STUDENT ~ """ 1.0. REQUIRED. No line may form before """ ~ 6:00 am. (Ticket sale for the public will it it take place at gate 1 0 of the ACC-Arena Dome). ~ 
...................................................... 
Friday, the Irish jumped in front of the Foresters on a power-play goal by team cap­tain Mike McNeill, but Lake Forest tied the game at 1-1 early in the second period. 
Brian Montgomery regained the lead for the Irish 19 seconds later, and Tom Mooney buried a shot behind Lake Forest goaltender Gary Willette to give the Notre Dame the 3-1 lead it never lost. 
Bob Bilton capped off the Irish scoring, taking a fantastic feed from Mooney and firing a shot past the sprawled-out Wil-

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the follow­Ing position: 
Assistant Advertising Design Manager 
Please leave a letter of application at the ofllce by Monday, March 9,1987 at 5 p.m. Questions should be directed to Michael Whitton 


We cater to weddings 
and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 
1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 
lette, making the final tally 4-1. 
"All phases of our game were good -the specialty teams, goaltending, and all four lines contributed,'' commented Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "It was as well as we played all year." 
Unfortunately, Saturday did not end as happily for the Irish, as they were unable to hold any of the three leads which they had over Michigan-Dearborn. 
Bob Herber opened the scoring before the Parents' Night crowd eight minutes into the first period, converting a nice pass from John Welsch into a 1-0 Irish lead. Ron Duda scored for the Wolves midway through the second period, tying the score at 1-1 and touch­ing off a flurry of goals. 
Tim Kuehl came back for the Irish, tipping in a Kevin Markovitz shot for a 2-1 lead. Rick Osburn tied the game two minutes later, beating Irish goaltender Lance Madson on the glove side. 
Mooney, who along with Bil­ton led the Irish in tournament scoring, put the Irish back on top a minute later. Notre Dame enjoyed that lead for the next nine seconds before the Wolves tied it at 3-3. 
That left the third period, and Lefty's last, to decide the game. Frantic action at both ends of the ice resulted in Joe MacDougall's second goal, giving the Wolves a 4-3 lead. Ken Chaput scored what 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR THE SUMMER 

Camp Counselor Positions Available ot Outstanding Sports Camps 
Camp Wlnaukee for Boys and Roblndel for Girls. 
Onft m•le oporl on 22 m11e lake. near 'On Golden Pond' s•te and the Ma•ne coos!. Good solor•es and olltram.portot•on po•d Seek quol•hed spec•ollsls 1n all areas 
Personal interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

11am to 2pm -Tuesday, March 10 
Sign up In placement olllce or just stop by. 


proved to be the winning goal two minutes later, again beating Madson on the glove side. 
The Irish refused to fold as Tim Caddo tallied while being pulled to the ice, leaving them down 5-4. A penalty gave the Irish a power-play in the last minute of the game, but it was not meant to be. The Wolves rounded out the scoring on an open-net goal with nine seconds remaining. 
"We made a couple of crucial mistakes which wound up cos­ting us," Smith noted. "I was glad to see us come back -we never gave up. It was a very good tournament for the ACHA, though. The competi­tion was tremendous." 
The lone Irish representative on the All-Tournament Team was defenseman Lance Patten, who joined five Michigan­Dearborn players on the squad. 
enough money to go here, and be a good hockey player. The good ones usually go to the big­ger schools with scholarships." 
With the formation of the new American Collegiate Hockey Association, Smith feels that the potential is there for a promising future. 
"I've tried to establish a solid base here," says the veteran of 19 Irish campaigns. "I have tried to create a philosophy and some traditions which can put us on the road back. I think we are on the right track now." 
Through all of the problems and pitfalls which have faced Smith and the Notre Dame hockey program, he has managed to compile a 307-320­31lifetime record. 




1[()(i(l~------------------~------Mo-nda-y,M-arc-h9,_1~-7-p-age-ll 

Bloom County 
Beer Nuts 
011, NARV/N !! I 11ARVll MARV!!
HOL.Y

'flllt!H HE W<o J.JAt<E UP' DON'T OIVL.Y A CDLL/f:(rE 
NA(}(EREL. 
YOV HAVE A BIG

MAll U.N! I:. INAHr I'W 1ll HAVE !'£ 1 CALC. /fiS(1iL OF Mf! I T'ODAY 7fl 
rr.~· ' 
~ 
.. 


F 
A 
R 
s 
I D E 
"Alway• keep label up, Dag." 

Campus 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse MacWrite, 108 Computing Center, limit 12, to register call Betty, 239-5604 3:30p.m.: AeornauticaltMechanical Engi­neermg Seminar, "Dynamics of Flexible Structures: A Geometrical-Nonlinear Ap­proach," by Dr. Loc Vu-Quoc, Stanford University, 303 Cushing Hall 
7:00 p.m.: SMC Counseling and Career Development Center Series Lecture Topic: Women in the Workplace. Speaker: Maureen McFadden, WNDU-TV, 303 Hag­gar College Center 7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "The Man Who Knew Too Much," 1936, Black and White, 75 minutes, directed by Alfred Hitchcock, Britain, AnnenbergAuditorium 
9:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "M," 1931, Black and White, 95 minutes, directed by Fritz Lang, Germany, Annen-
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

G 
a 
r 
y 
L 
a 
r 
s 
0 
n 

berg Auditorium 10:,30 p.m.: Meeting, FCA, Stanford 24­hour lounge 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Breaded Pork Chop Turkey Turnover Baked Sole with Rice Dressing Tuna Muffin Melt 
Saint Mary's 

Corned Beef over Cabbage Irish Stew Baked Chicken 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Out-of-the­park hit 
6 Large group 1 0 Norse port 14 Ms Ghostley 15 Soccer great 16 Narrow reef 17 Pullout 19 Camp out 20 In -(quickly) 21 Check out 23 Aeries 25 Warm up 26 US-Canada 
highway 29 Large wave 31 Alas and -1 34 Blow a horn 35 Neglectful 
tenant of 

a kind 37 Done -turn 38 Rest period 40 SRO show 42 Fr. artist 43 Maddox 45 Eng. composer 46 Reb signature 48 Bitter vetch 49 Erodes 50 Silkworm 52 Secluded 
in a way 54 Patron at 40A 56 Excites 60 Carries out 61 Give out 63 Out of com­
mission 64TIII 65 Lucid 66 Shells out 67 Nobleman 68 Seed covering 
DOWN 1 Goldie­2 Ragout 3 Boxing glove 4 Bristling as 
a porcupine 
· 51ndlans 6 Resort 7 Jerry and 
Sinclair 8 Spirit 

~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
9 Cop out on 
a bet 10 Bony 11 Stadium 
turnout 12 Ravelings 13 Baseball's 
Mel 18 Legal point 22 Bailey or 
barley 24 Afr. fly 26 Rose essence 27 Fr. river 28 Out-and-out 30 Evaluate 32 Enumerate 33 Smith and 
Jackson 


35 Hint  
36 Always to  
a poet  
39 Liquid part  49 Widow  57 Cal. abbr.  
of fat 41 Praiseworthy 44 Adriatic area  51 Total 53 Sea god 54 Pop  58 Coup d'­59 Antitoxins 60 Brief swim  
47 Rubs out  55 Bertin's one  62 Rocky crag  

,................................................ 
SAB presents: -to : 
ll'o~.; +

: The Hustler "r~"oq~ 
• 
; Wednesday,. Thursday ~o"q~ • 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 0~o:;t $1.00 EG Aud. 
................................................. 
Monday, March 9, 1987 -page 12

SRorts 
Irish slated for Charlotte after defeating Dayton 
NCAAtabsND fifth seed in East 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 

The good news is Notre Dame will not face a team with a hyphen in the opening round of the NCAA Tourna­ment, but once again the Irish will be a facing a relative unknown in the form of Middle Tennesse State in the first round Thursday. 
Tournament ~~~I
NCAA ~ 
TheRoadto ~ Bourbon Street 
When the bids were announced Sun­day afternoon, the Irish, rumored to be either staying in the Midwest region or going to the West, found themselves going to Charlotte, N.C., where they will be the fifth seed in , the East Regional. The Blue Raiders of Middle Tennessee State, seeded 12th, finished 22-6 on the season. The Blue Raiders won the Ohio Valley Conference regular-season title, but lost to eventual-champion Austin Peay in the 
see NCAA, page 9 


Mark Stevenson attempts a shot in heavy traffic in Saturday's Notre Dame victory over Dayton. Pete Gegen 
Close fights highlight finals of 57th annual Bengal Bouts 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 

Friday night, Stepan Center was packed by spectators eager to witness the final bouts in the 57th annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. Not to be disap­pointed, the crowd witnessed many close bouts and outstand­ing performances. 
The action began with one of the most interesting matchups of the evening. Eric 'Dingo' Bender took on his roommate Kevin 'the Vigilante' Duggan for the Junior Lightweight title. Despite their relationship, both fought with a determination to win. Both boxers kept up a con­tinuous onslaught of punches, much to the !ielight of the crowd. 
By the third round, Bender and Duggan were near the end of their strength. Duggan drew upon a reserve supply of en­ergy and was able to rally with a solid right-left combination to win the bout by a unanimous decision. 
"This isn't worth boxing ex­cept for the cause," said 'Dingo' Bender. "We're not fighting because we like to hit each other. The whole point is to feed the starving people in Bengladesh." 
In the Junior Welterweight final, David 'Sugar' Cane faced Tim 'the Sniper' Hartigan in the first split decision of the evening. In the first two rounds, Hartigan maintained control of the bout, using his power to weaken Dave. In the third round, Cane came back with hard jabs and elusive foot­work that cut down Hartigan's domination of the bout. 'The Sniper' still emerged as the winner by a split decision. 
In the bloodiest fight of the night, Jack 'the Honeymooner' Gleason and 'Righteous' Ray Powers exchanged punches with no regard for style or skill. By the second round, both boxers were bleeding but nei-
Bengals results, page 9 

ther seemed to notice. Powers connected with a hard right to give Gleason a standing eight­count. Gleason was able to shake off the blow, only to be driven back into a corner by Powers. 
In the third round Powers sent Gleason down and out of the ring, causing the referee to stop the bout 51 seconds into the round. The power of 

The Bengal Bouts proved to be a success. Chris Dallavo highlights Friday's finals above. 
ND comes back to top UD, 62-56 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
DAYTON, Ohio -In a scenario familiar to Irish basketball fans, Notre Dame came from behind to beat Dayton, 62-56, Saturday afternoon. 
After the Flyers had held the lead for most of the second half, Notre Dame's Mark Stevenson hit two free throws to put the Irish up, 50-49. David Rivers then widened the gap by hitting a three­pointer with 2:45 left in the game. 
"There were 15 seconds left on the 
shot clock," said Rivers. "We got into 
our offense, but we weren't able to exe­
cute it. I was sort of left alone, and I 
just pulled up and hit the three-point 
shot." 

Dayton guard Dan Christie kept it close by hitting two field goals and a three-pointer down the stretch, but Irish forward Donald Royal, guard Jamere Jackson and Rivers together hit seven-of-eight free throws to seal it for Notre Dame. 
"It's typical of us, as you've seen all year," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We usually come from behind and win or come from behind and lose 
see COMEBACK, page 7 

'Righteous Ray' proved too much for 'the Honeymooner'. 
After the bloodbath of Powers and Gleason, the crowd was treated to the most con­trolled bout of the night be­tween Vance 'Pretty Boy' Be­cklund and Ted 'the Truth' Gradel. Both boxers· had good style and footwork, but south­paw Ted 'the Truth' had a slight advantage. His quick right jabs and strong lefts kept 'Pretty Boy' at bay for the first round. 
In the second, Becklund came out with powerful rights 
keeping Gradel on the defen­
sive. The third round saw both 
boxers using their power to end 
the bout. In the end, 'the Truth' 
came away with a split decision 
to win the Junior Middleweight 
title. 
The final bout of the night was an expected rematch be­tween the 1986 Super Heavyweight champion Dan 'the Man' Quinn and 1985 Super Heavyweight champion Per­nell 'Big Train' Taylor. Taylor, who lost the bout last year, took control in the first round limit­ing the exchanges in order to conserve his strength. In the second round, 'Big Train' began his attack with his pow­erful left jab that found every opening in Quinn's defense. 'The Man' tried to counter with his size and wild right, but Taylor was able to avoid the swings with ease. 
In the third, Taylor continued to use the jab with awesome force and precision. Quinn was driven back onto the ropes, where Taylor used a combina­
see FINALS, page 9 

'Lefty' Smith resigns after 19 seasons at ND 
By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
With the sounding of Satur­day night's final buzzer, ending the ACHA tournament, came the end of an era. Notre Dame Hockey Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith, the heart and soul of 
ACHA results, page 10 
Irish hockey since 1968, an­nounced his resignation from the head coaching job. 
In a meeting with his team following a heart-breaking loss to Michigan-Dearborn, Smith, the coach who often roared, quietly told his players of his decision to retire. 
"After 40 years of coaching, I just decided to turn it in,'' said the venerable coach. "I turned in my resignation about two weeks ago, but didn't tell the team until after the game." 
Wait a minute. Coaching for forty years at the age of fifty­seven? 
"I organized my high school team when I was 17," Smith says. 
Smith came to the Irish after five years of coaching in the Midwest Junior B League, fol­lowed by a ten-year stint as head coach at his native South St. Paul High School. He gained notoriety by compiling a record of 201 wins, 69 losses, 11 ties 
see LEFfY, page 10 






