
Philippine cadets support mutineers with hunger strike 
!ACCENT: What do you know? [VIEWPOINT: Homogeneous students 
Sunny, mild. 
Sunny Tuesday with highs in the low 70s. Showers Wed­nesday morning, turning partly sunny with highs near 70. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 6 
Sophomore Mark Chapman demonstrates his Cari Martinez and Marty Schrier stand by as civilians were killed and new technique for escaping the dining hall with eager apprentices. wounded. no more than two apples in hand. Classmen Iranian commandos in patrol 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines-Philippine Military Academy cadets went on a hunger strike Monday in support of mutineers who tried unsuc­cessfully to overthrow Presi­dent Corazon Aquino in a bloody revolt last week. 
The government sent Maj. Gen. Eduardo Ermita, the mil­itary's third ranking officer, to 
Soviets make first offer to accept test proposals 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A top Soviet arms control official today of­fered for the first time to ac­cept a U.S. proposal for moni­toring nuclear tests, and even offered to let the United States 
explode its own bomb in the So­viet Union to calibrate monitor­ing equipment. 
The chief U.S. negotiator to arms control talks in Geneva, 
Kampelman, immedi­ately said the offer was worth pursuing. 
Colonel-general Nikolai Chervov, of the Soviet defense ministry, said through an inter­
in a luncheon speech 
"the Soviet Union is perepared to accept any type of verification" on a test-ban agreement. 
try to talk the cadets out of their action. 
Rightist sources meanwhile said troops involved in Friday's mutiny had prepared a statement declaring a provisional junta and calling for presidential elections. The sources demanded anonymity. 
At least 37 people were killed and about 300 wounded in the coup attempt. 
The military said Monday 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Iran retaliates in Gulf attacks 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain-Iranian commandos raked a Kuwaiti freighter with machine-gun fire and rocket-propelled grenades in the Persian Gulf Monday in retaliation for three days of Iraqi air attacks, ship­ping sources said. 
Iraq's attacks, aimed at forc­
,, 
ing Iran to accept a U.N. cease­fire resolution in their 7-year­old war, came as a convoy of reflagged Kuwaiti tankers un­der U.S. escort anchored off Bahrain. U.S. helicopters looked for a reported mine. 
In Washington, the White House on Monday termed the timing of Iraq's attacks "deplorable," but called on Iran to comply with the cease­fire resolution. 
Iran said its artillery shelled Basra in southern Iraq and other border towns in retalia­tion for the Iraqi air strikes. Iraq's Baghdad Radio, moni­

The Observei:'Suzanne Poch tored in Nicosia, said several 
''There is no problem on verification," Chervov said at a luncheon for visiting mem­bers of the Soviet delegation to last week's conference on U.S.­Soviet relations at Chautau­qua, N.Y. 
Chervov said his statment could include adoption of the Cortex test monitoring system which earlier had been pro­posed by the U.S. side. The sys­tem involves placing a detec­tion device in a hole bored near the site of an atomic explosion. 
Kampelman said it was the first time he had heard a Soviet official make such an offer. "This to me was a new thought, and I have to check that out," Kampelmann told reporters after the luncheon. "We'll look at it." 

more than 1,100 troops, includ-miles north of Manila, after ing the air force deputy com-· news reports said the approxi­mander, were being questioned mately 600 cadets were fasting in connection with the revolt. to show support for the rebels. 
Loyal troops were searching Army spokesman Col. Bulacan and Pampanga Honesto Isleta said Monday provinces north of Manila for night on a television talk show about 200 rebels still at large, that Ermita and other officers including coup leader Col. met with the cadets most of the Gregorio Honasan. day. He said the cadets realized 
Ermita, the deputy chief of they had received "disinforma­staff, flew to the military tion" and would return to academy in Baguio City, 130 classes Tuesday. 
SMC Board plans activities 
By MIMI TUOHY Staff Reporter 
Activities Night, National Banned Books Week and a record album commemorat­ing 100 years of Notre Dame football were just some of the topics discussed at the Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting Monday night in Haggar College Cen­ter. 
Smith Hashagen, vice president for student affairs, announced that Activities Night is scheduled for tonight in Angela Athletic Facility from 8 to 10 p.m. Various extracurricular clubs and teams will be represented, as well as cer­tain other organizations from the South Bend area. 
"Project Head Start, Big 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1987 
Brother!Big Sister of South Bend, and many other local groups will be participating. I'm looking forward to a great student turnout," said Hashagen. 
The Programming Board unanimously approved the showing of Francois Truf­faut's film "Farenheit 451" during National Banned Books Week, September 20­26. 
"This is a perfect film be­cause it deals with the bur­ning of books. Combined with National Constitution Week, September 13-19, we will all be reminded of how free we really are," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, as­sistant director of student activities. 
In other business, "100 Years," a record album commemorating the tOOth anniversary of Notre Dame football, was played for the board members. 
Paula Abowd, a Notre Dame junior whose family wrote and produced the single, explained that the song is being endorsed by the Notre Datne Alumni As­sociation and each copy will cost $4.00. 
"Since only two Notre Dame dorms <Walsh and Saint Ed's) are selling them, I am sure that an organiza­tion on the Saint Mary's campus will also be inter­ested in participating. Hope­fully, this will be a great fundraiser for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's commu­nity," said Hashagen. 
Hut the academy, the West Point of the Philippines, im­posed a news blackout and cadets could not be reached for confirmation that this was the case. 
The statement accused Aquino of treason and vowed the revolt would continue "un­til political conditions shall have been stabilized and a clean and honest presidential election shall have been held." 
boats attacked the 24,349-ton container ship Jebel Ali off the United Arab Emirates coast near the Strait of Hormuz. 
The owners, the Kuwait­based United Arab Shipping Co., said the ship was bound for Dubai when attacked "by a speedboat firing rockets and machine guns." 
The 32-man crew and two wives who were aboard were unhurt and the ship reached Dubai for repairs, the company said. 
It was the first such incident attributed to Iranian forces since Iraq resumed air attacks on Iranian targets in the gulf Saturday, ending a 45-day lull. 
Tehran has said Kuwaiti ships and any U.S. warship es­corts would not be exempt from its retaliation against Iraq's weekend resumption of air raids. 
Iraqi jets, in their longest ranging missions in months, ranged 600 miles to the Strait of Hormuz to strike near Iran's Larak island oil terminal. 
see GULF, page 3 

Tuesday, September 1, 1987
page 2 The Observer 
In· Brief ~ · There's no place like Chicago for loony tunes 
A women's prisonliteracyprogramishelpinginmates help each other. The new program at the Indiana State Women's Prison, called Literacy Volunteers of America, is different from previous learn-to-read projects at the prison, where the number of functionally illiterate inmates is conservatively estimated at 20 percent, because it uses life experiences as writing and reading topics. The ability to read will be(::ome even more important Tuesday, when a new state law will require inmates to demonstrate reading and writing proficiency to participate in work release or Regular Community Assignment projects, called RCAs. -Associated Press Soap opera character actor Karl Bruck, known to daytime soap opera fans for more than a decade as Maestro Ernesto Faustch on the CBS saga "The Young and the Restless " died Aug 21 of cancer. He was 81. In ' laddition to his role on "The Young and the Rest ess, " Bruck was seen regularly on such TV shows as "The Fugi­tive " "Star Trek " "Mission: impossible," "It Takes a Thi~f" and "Love' Boat." He was also seen in such films as ''Escape From the Planet of the Apes,'' ''The Birdmen'' and "Paint Your Wagon." -Associated Press Chi-Chi's Mexican Restaurante was the scene of a criminal hideout early Monday in Indianapolis after an attempted holdup. During a seven-hour ordeal, police rescued three restaurant employees who locked them­selves in a walk-in cooler to protect themselves from two alleged holdup men. The police then found the two suspects hiding inside the Chi-Chi's Mexican Restaurante on the city's westside and arrested them without further incident. Detectives said the suspects apparently hid in the ceiling above the men's room from 10:45 p.m. untilll p.m. when the restaurant closed. -Associated Press Of Interest Activities Night 1987 will be held tonight at Stepan Center from 7 to 10 p.m. Find out information about ac­tivities on and around campus. -The Observer SMC Theatre auditions for "Thursday's Child," written and directed by Julie Jensen, will be held today and tomorrow from 7-9 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. -The Observer WSND-FM Radio Announcing is looking for anyone interested in reading or writing news, or announc­ing classical music programs. Those interested should at­tend activities night at the Stepan Center tonight. For information about news, contact Tara Creedon at 4661, and for information about classical announcing, contact Jesse Pesta at 2084 or Carolyn Gardner at 3864. -The Ob­server Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine which items it will publish.  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime_, day or night.  
-Ihe-Obs.e~~or-­-. ----A.~Y=-'­__ ---­Design Editor ...... _....... Kathy Huston Sports Copy Editor ..... ~t.eve J\llegargee Layout Staff. . ...... _..... Tracy Burke Accent Copy Editor ........... Lisa Young Typesetters ........................ Dan Cahill Accent Layout.. ............... Carolyn Rey ..................................... Chris Reardon Viewpoint Copy Editor ___ Tim Brennan ............................ __ Becky Gunderman Typists... . .......... Lynn Ewing News Editor .................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor .................. Daniel Lee Copy Editor ................. Karen Webb Photographer....... . ..... Suzanne Poch Tile Oblener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Aslodaled Praa. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

I had the ideal summer job. 
An internship with ABC-News in Chicago had Kim the potential to be a glamorous job. It didn't matter that I was getting no pay. I was doing Vuratovac a job that they told me would undoubtedly "look 
good on my resume." Assistant Accent Editor The first day of work was kind of like my first day at Notre Dame -humbling. Every other intern had dreams of becoming an anchor. We all soon realized that it was a long climb from filing and answering phones to being on the air. Working at the number one-rated news sta­tion in America's number two news market was never a dull experience. I spent my first day following the pizza man rapist trial. I eventually even got to attend the trial. Let's just say that the people waiting to go on trial were far from anything my Catholic school experience ever showed me. The piles of mail I had to open each day were a college student's dream. It was somewhat difficult to decipher the different shades of crayon, pen and lipstick. One of the more intel­ligent letters was a sympathy note regarding the death of Cliff on "All My Children." "We're deeply sorry," the note said and it was signed by two Chicago businesswomen. They included 

their names and their place of employment. I was tempted to xerox the note and mail it to their bosses. But that was just too cruel. Picasso exhibit and unlimited tickets to The 

Each hour brought a dozen new phone calls Oprah Winfrey Show. on the "Looney Line." The Iran-Contra Just working in the same building as The Hearings were a favorite target. "Who is this Oprah Winfrey Show was worth more than a Oliver North guy anyway?" a Chicago college student's pay. I never knew who I would housewife asked about half way through the encounter in the elevator. It could be anyone hearings. I soon realized that the majority of from Eddie Murphy to self-proclaimed witches. the nation's population was much more con­I even ran into Oprah a few times. Literally. cerned with the rompings of Erica Kane than One day she was hurrying into the elevator five the fate of the United States. minutes before the show and I was trying to 
get off the elevator. We bumped right into each 
The threat of a directors' strike was wel­other. Let's just say that Oprah never forgot comed by the interns. We were ready to take me after that. Neither did the countless number advantage of any opportunity we could. Since of Notre Dame students, among others who saw we weren't getting paid, we felt they owed us my brief stint on the show. I had no idea what something. We were filmed as anchors, sports question she was going to ask me before I volun­and weather people. I tried to be cool under the teered to answer or I never would have tried. pressure but I couldn't keep my cool when I "On an airplane you are talking pleasantly was forced to ad-lib sports. My sports knowl­to a stranger of average appearance. Unexpec­edge extends nowhere beyond the Bears and tedly, the person offers you $10,000 for one night the Irish. Needless to say, I broke the tension of sex. Knowing that there is no danger and of the long day. that payment is certain, would you accept the 
We interns found more ways of taking advan­offer?" tage of our press credentials than any seasoned Of course, I said no. You can take the girl veteran. We got free tickets to "The Taste of away from Notre Dame but you can't takeN otre Chicago," a free lunch at the opening of a new Dame away from the girl. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
Call239·5303 fqr details. 



BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
T1a1ks to you... itworks ... for 
AU. 
OFUS 

Unltadwau 


,Knights ofthe Castle Men's Hairstyling 
You choose a first class campus Why not a first class haircut? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
Ironwood& St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 


I 

Is now accepting applications for part-time work in all positions. 
Apply in person between j 2 & 5 pm; Tues-Sat 




Tuesday, September 1, 1987 
Dole, Ortega debate 
U.S. involvement 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-A public meeting Monday be­tween Senate Republican leader Bob Dole and President Daniel Ortega turned into a tense debate over U.S. and So­viet involvment in Nicaragua. 
The Kansas senator, on a two-day fact-finding trip to Central America, at one point called the nearly hour-long dis­cussion a "propaganda rally." 
Afterward, he told repoters, "Let me indicate we were dis­enchanted. We were quite dis­appointed that what we hoped might be a serious meeting turned into a circus." 
During the public session, which was broadcast live over the government's Voice of Nicaragua radio station, Dole urged Ortega to agree to three­way negotiations among the Sandinista government, the Reagan administration and the Nicaraguan Contra rebels to bring about a cease-fire. The 
The Observer 


rebels, backed by the United Don't feed the animals 
The Observei1Suzanne Poch 
States, are fighting to oust Or­

Elephants and giraffes hang out on North Quad, begging for
tega's revolutionary govern­

treats from North Dining Hall. Who ever said college campuses 
ment. 

were zoos? 
Student Senate approves name change 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
In its first meeting of the school year Monday night, the Student Senate voted unani­mously to approve the Student Activities Board's decision to change its name to the Student Union Board. 
In order to become official, the name change also has to be approved by the Hall Presi­dents' Council, said Laurie Bink, student body vice presi­dent. 
According to Janel Blount, board manager, the decision to change the organization's name was made to allay con­fusion between the student board and the Office of Student Activities, an arm of the ad­ministration. 
Blount also said that by in­corporating the "Union" into its name, the Notre Dame board assures itself easier communications with other outside organizations. 
In other business, the senate gave its overwhelming support to an idea presented by junior John Raphael to hold a Rosary 

Devotion in the Grotto on Octo­ber 7. 
Negotiators agreed to leave the question of the voting age, now 20, until new election laws are written. The opposition wants to lower the age to 18. 
Chun, an army general when he gained power in 1980, is to leave office in February after a seven-year term. Rob, also a former general, aided Chun in his rise to power. 
The National Assembly and a national referendum must approved the revised constitu­

We know that a cheap calculator can cost you blood, sweat and time. 
Investing in a Hewlett-Packard cal­culator, on the other hand, can save you time and again. 
HP calculators not only have better func­tions. They function better. Without stick­ing keys and bad connections. 
Through October 31, you can get the cream of the calcula­tors at a non-fat price. 
We're cutting $10 off the HP-12C. That buys you more built­in functions than any­one else's financial calculator. 
And we're giving away a free Advantage Module, a $49 value, with every HP-41 Advanced Scientific calculator you buy. This 12K-byte plug­in, menu-driven ROM was designed spe­cially for students. 
So drop by your campus bookstore and compare HP calcula­tors with the rest. By midterm, you'll see what a deal this is. 
,--------, 
I AD~RJ¥~~~oi:5uLE I I with purchast• of Ill'-II. l'ur-I 1 rhctst• must ht.• marit• lwtwt•t.•n I Au11ust l!i, IHH7. and Ortobl'r :n. II 19H7. See \'our lura! I II' dl'alerI for dl'lails. and official n•dt•mp-I tion form. Rt•batt• or fn•t.• Mod-1 I 
ult• will !w sent inli-Hwel'ks. 

I OR $10 OFF AN HP-12C. I
L ________ _j 
tion before elections can be held. 
According to Raphael, the Pope has declared 1987 to be a Marian year, dedicated to our Blessed Mother. "There is a vi­able reason to make this a campus-wide celebration" said Raphael. 
After obtaining the support of the senate, Raphael said he in­tends to bring his idea to Fa­ther Leveille, director of Campus Ministry, for final con­firmation. 
WLJd'rwuer stop
as .ng ~ 

",~!'IIIII.......... 
~...... 
.... 
•• I 
• 
Ff/;. HEWLETT
a:r... PACKARD 
page 3 

South Korea negotiates democratic revisions 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea-Gov­
ernment and opposition 
negotiators broke a deadlock 
Monday by agreeing on con­
stitutional revisions that will 
provide direct presidential 
elections and other democratic 
reforms. 
Labor turmoil continued, 
with about 700 strikes for 
higher pay, better working con­
ditions and free unions still un­
resolved. 
Spokesmen for the governing 
Democratic Justice Party and 
main opposition Reunification 
Democratic Party said rewrit­
ing of the charter was expected 
to begin Tuesday. 
"I am delighted," said Roh 
Tae-woo, head of the govern­
ment party and its candidate 
to succeed President Chun Doo­
hwan next February. 
Optimism about the 
breakthrough was clouded by 
opposition leader Kim Young­
sam's refusal to meet with Rob 
on Monday because of the po­
litical prisoners issue. 
Kim canceled the meeting 
hours before it was to begin. 
He accused the government of 
rounding up more political 
prisoners and said a new crack­
down might be under way. 
Kim says about 330 political 
prisoners still are being held 
and demands that they be 
freed. He also wants civil rights 
restored to those opponents of 
the government still black­
listed for political activities. 
"We are concerned that the 
government has launched a 
major suppression of moderate 
elements in the opposition," 
Kim told reporters. 
Police broke up anti­
government demonstrations in 
Seoul and other cities last 
Friday. It was the worst politi­
cal violence since weeks of 
protest that led to Chun's ac­
ceptance June 30 of opposition 
demands for reform. 

Gulf 
continued from page 1 
Military communiques from Baghdad said Iraqi jets hit two Iranian ships Sunday night and Monday morning. 
The London-based Lloyds Shipping Intelligence Unit con­firmed only that the 113,788-ton tanker Shoush, owned by the state-run Iranian National Tanker Co., was hit Sunday. 
The ship's engine room was set ablaze, but there was no fur­ther word on damage or injur­ies, shipping sources said. 
The sources spoke on condi­tion of not being identified. 
In dispatches monitored in 
Cyprus, the Baghdad govern­
ment's official Iraq News 
Agency quoted a military 
spokesman as saying Iraq will 
continue striking Iran's oil ter­
minals and other vital targets. 
Correction 
A statistical error was made in the Freshmen Ori­entation issue of The Obser­ver. Sixty-two percent of Saint Mary's freshmen were in the top quarter of their high school graduating class. 

Tuesday, September 1, 1987
page 4 The Observer 


"For the few who qualify for 
J.P. Morgalls Audit-Plus program~ the rewards are many.~~ 
We're very selective about the people we choose for our Audit-Plus program, and we attract very 
selective candidates. We lool{ for business students 
with a strong academic record, superior communi­cation skills, and the capacity to understand the balance between profitability and risk What we offer you is a chance to develop your management skills quickly by working in the auditing or finan­cial areas of a leading global firm. We also give you quality training, practical experience on diverse projects, and the opportunity to 

mOVe ahead fast based On your 
Information Presentation 
performance. Hyou're interested in the challenge at J.P. Morgan, 
meet with us at the time and 
place indicated. 
Monday, September 14 7:00-9:00 PM University Club Upper lounge 

JPMorgan 

------~---------~-~~ -~-­
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 
The Observer page 5 
Security Beat · 
Saturday August 22, 
l0:05am 
A Pasquerilla West resident re­ported striking a vehicle owned by a Flanner Hall resident in the Stepan Center parking lot while exiting a parking space. Damage listed as $250.00. 
12:05pm 
A Keenan Hall resident reported his jewelry, wallet, and class ring with a total value of $516.00 stolen from the desk of his unlocked room while out taking shower. 
4:15pm 
A Grace Hall resident reported a bicycle locked to the bike rack out­side the main doors of the residence hall stolen sometime between mid­night the previous night and reported time. 
7:48pm 
A South Bend resident reported a lost wallet between the Bookstore and the Law School between the hours of 4:30pm and 6pm. Value placed at $60. 
Sunday August 23, 
6:40am 
Police responded to a complaint that cars were being tampered with in 'the Campus View complex. Vehicles were owned by students but not entered.A suspect was ap­prehended, questioned and released. 
1:45pm 
A Snite Museum Security Monitor reported a showcase in the Eth­nographic Gallery had been van­dalized and the glass broken. 
4:30pm 
An Alumni Hall resident reported that his wallet and contents were removed from his unlocked room. Entry was gained through an inter­connecting door possibly while resi­dents were asleep the previous night. 
6:13pm 
A residence hall staff member re­ported to the East Gate that a subject was laying in the southbound lane of Juniper Road north of Douglas Road. Units responded to scene to find a 15-year-old youth injured at the in­tersection of Juniper and Wellworth Ave. The victim had been pulled to the ground from his bicycle by some­one reaching from a moving vehicle. The vehicle fled scene and was des­cribed as an unknown year silver colored Corvette with T-tops. An Am­bulance and St. Joseph Co. Police called and the victim was transported to the hospital. 
4:20pm 
A bicycle was reported stolen be­tween llam and 12noon from the bike rack between the Counseling Center and Keenan Hall. 
9:05pm 
The NO fire department responded to a false fire alarm at O'Shaughnessy Hall. The pull station at the East doors had been tampered with. 
Tuesday August 25, 
6:10am 
Three suspects in a pickup truck were seen loading boxes from the rear of Farley Hall. Suspects found to be southbound on Notre Dame Ave. at St. Vincent St. were ap­prehended and charges were filed with the prosecutors' office. Prop­erty consisting of five boxes and a loft were recovered and returned. 
2:00pm 
Scholastic Magazine staff reported the theft of a golf cart from the south side of LaFortune Student Building. The cart was recovered near St. Mary's Lake at the rear of Fatima Retreat Center. 
3:00pm 
Minority Student Affairs office re­ported the theft over the summer of a Macintosh Apple Computer from Walsh Hall where it was to be stored. 
5:48pm 
A Resident of the O'Hara-Grace Townhouses reported two boxes of books and personal items missing after having been delivered by UPS. 
Wednesday August 26, 
1:30am 
A Keenan Hall resident was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center for stitches to his head for an injury suf­fered while constructing a loft. 
lO:lOam 
A Flanner Hall resident reports that his bicycle (minus the front whee)) had been stolen from the bike rack. The front wheel was left se­cured to bike rack. Value placed at $300. 
2:00pm 
A Keenan Hall resident reports wallet and contents lost somewhere on campus during previous night. Loss placed at $20. 
5:16pm 
A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of an Avanti brand refrigerator from the rear of Lewis Hall. Value placed at $80. 
Thursday August 27, 
12:15pm 
A Flanner Hall resident reported that his vehicle had been forcible en­tered while parked in the D-2 parking lot the previous night. Vandalism to contents, nothing appeared to have been taken. 
12:58pm 
Security officers apprehended four juveniles for bicycle theft in the area of StanfordKeenan after being seen by an employee of the Student Health Center. The bicycles were recovered and the juveniles were issued sum­mons to appear and released to cus­tody of parents. 
1:25pm 
A subject reported that his vehicle had been damaged by an unknown object in the C-2 parking lot. Damage to passenger door amounting to $200. 
7:30pm 
A Grace Hall resident interupted what appeared to be a bicycle theft in progress at the Grace Hall bike rack. Resident gave chase to the thieves, catching them at Pasquerilla Hall and recovered the bike being stolen. 
Saturday August 29, 
1:05pm 
A Morrisey resident reported the 
larceny of an AM-FM cassette player with clock from his vehicle parked in the D-1 parking Jot. Forty tapes were also missing. Entry was gained by smashing out left vent wimdow. Loss approx. $300. 
2:00pm 
Assistant Security Director Phillip Johnson is wed in St. Clair Shores, Michigan. 
Sunday August 30, 
4:30am 
A Badin Hall resident reported that the convertible top to .her vehicle was vandalized between 2:20am and 4:30am in the D-1 lot. 
8:00am 
The South Bend Tribune reported the theft of a newspaper machine from the lobby outside the Oak Room valued at $430 
12:40pm 
Officers recovered three vending machines at the northeast door of Stanford Hall. SB Tribune machine, and 2 feminine hygene product mac­hines were all found damaged and void of coin boxes. 
11:44pm 
A Grace Hall resident reported that his vehicle was entered through a smashed left window and a gym bag containing books, running ap­parel and a stop watch wee stolen while parked at the ACC gate 4 area. 



ONCE IN A LIFETIME! 
If you are self-motivated with high standards and have pride in yourself and the work you do, apply to be part of the select group chosen to cater the University's most prestegious event. 

1987 PRESIDENTAL INAUGURATION 
Tuesday, Septembeer 22, 1987 Wednesday, September 23, 1987 
Applications may be picked up at the North or South Dining Hall Manager's Office 
Join us in the celebration 
University Food Services University of Notre Dame 

UNIVERSITY FOODSERVICE 

~--­





Viewpoint
page 6 
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 

American life relies upon Constitution 
After a summer of anniversaries, the most important one was largely over­looked. One wonders, in a pause that refreshes, how much overkill does it take to convince people that Elvis Pres­ley died ten years ago. Whether his ghost, his grave, or Elvis himself can speak to middle-aged women remains a mystery, but so much print is wasted on seeking the truth in such matters, that naive foreigners would assume Elvis Presley and Marilyn Monroe greeted Columbus in the West Indies. 

Ken Kollman 
guest column 
The truth is that 200 years ago our Constitution was made to stand above the rituals of human law. Its status as the most profound and important docu­ment in recent world history is un­diminished by time, and the ability to withstand a history of rapid change and discovery testifies to our Constitution's brilliant design. With this in mind, this 

summer's glaring lack of media atten­tion to its anniversary is disturbing. 
What is disappointing is the collective lack of will to devote popular attention to the most important American an­niversary of the decade. The 40th an­niversary of the end of World War 11 stirred debate about the ethics of nu­clear weapons, the 100th birthday of the Statue of Liberty extended the dialogue over immigration laws, and every year the anniversary of the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision magnifies the contro­versy of abortion. Why have the an­niversaries of the deaths of Elvis Pres­ley and Marilyn Monroe grabbed more attention this summer than our Consti­tution? 
It's not apparent where the blame rests. Certainly Iranamok grabbed away many headlines. But Elvis and Marilyn? In fairness, both Time and Newsweek had inspiring cover stories, and journals like Smithsonian ran bril­liant articles about the history of the Constitutional Convention. The fever for information, though, never caught on, especially in television and the daily 


Music critics must 
Cruising back to school in the family truckster, I found myself paging through my hometown newspaper, The Plain Dealer. My eye fell upon a review of the latest album by John Cougar Mel­lencamp. I don't remember exactly what it said, but I do recall the article as being quite negative. Now, I am not a JCM fan by any means, but I had heard his new song, and I thought it was pretty good. I did not really think much of it at the time, since I find it difficult to agree with most music reviewers. 

Tony Lang 
guest column 

However, on my second day back on campus, I had a similar experience. While reading the Scholastic during one of the gourmet meals served in South Dining Hall, my eye fell on another music review. As I skimmed over the article, I noticed this particular critic berating U2, The Cult, and the Suburbs­-three groups which I thought were pretty good. Was I really that off in my musical taste? Or could the problem lie in the critics and their reviews? 
I do not know any music critics per­sonally, so what I say about them is only what I can surmise from what they write. The usual attitude in these reviews is that if I play in a band or if I listen to groups that no one else does, then I am an authority in critiqing music. The complexity of music and the huge variety of styles makes this logic absurd. It would be the same as saying that since I have painted a pic­ture, I therefore have the ability to cri­tique a painting by Salvador Dali. Even within the scope of rock music today, so many styles exist that it would take years to accumulate enough experience to be able to judge today's music. 
Just as in any art form, music draws heavily on subjectivity. No one knows how I will react to a certain song, or how that song will affect me. For ex­ample, my father and I will never see eye to eye on a song like Pink Floyd's "Comfortably Numb." However, that does not take away from the song itself. Although we disagree, he will under­stand my attraction to the song because of my experiences with and my expo­sure to that type of music; in the same way, I will understand his aversion to it. 
Another complaint I have with music critics is their despise for anything popular. The logic seems to follow that the more popular a band, the less talent they have. Admittedly, the shifting pop scene holds few budding Mozarts. Yet, when a Peter Gabriel or Paul Simon print media. 
Two opportunities for improvement were lost this summer. First, popular attention on the Constitutional Conven­tion itself could have improved Amer­ican cultural history. James Madison, rightly called the father of the Consti­tution, barely holds a place in collective memory. Deserving of glory like the names of Jefferson, Washington, Adams, Franklin, Madison and Hamil­ton get little space in our history. If one goal of history is accuracy, then the achievements of the men who forged compromises at the Convention deserve attention and fame. 
Second, there was an opportunity to imporve the Constitution itself. America needs a spirit of rejuvenation that only a new president can bring, b11t attention on the Constitution could have focused on possible amendments. Not one presidential candidate has seriously proposed a constitutional amendment, or even better, a new con­stitutional convention that might help solve some deep problems in America. 
In light of a status quo where the un­derclass grows every day, where race 
and class divisions scar our population; 
where international commitments ex­
tend far beyond our economic power; 
where our foreign policy process is muddled and uncertain; where crime rates continue to soar far above other Western nations; and where budget deficits threaten our economy with fu­ture inflation and depression -can't we use the Constitution to improve life in America? 
Proper attention to the anniversary of the Constitution could stir Americans to support a better constitution through a wider knowledge of our country's his­tory and by making the Constitution work for us. A new constitutional con­vention is in order because the docu­ment itself can be improved, as well as life in America, which must be im­proved. 
A good, readable book on the Consti­tution is welcome on the best seller list. Instead, books on Elvis, Marilyn, Vanna and Ollie .... 
Ken Kollman is a senior Government and English major. 



remain amenable 
skyrockets to the top of the charts, the critics find themselves in a bit of a bind. Should they depart from the usual music critic mentality, and actually praise something which is popular? Or do they give in and denounce old favorites as having given in to the pop music scene? This problem might be eliminated if these critics broke out of their esoteric shells and actually did what they are supposed to do-listen to the music. 
Even after listening, these critics have to remember that this is their opinion that they are giving, not the official dogma. I do not wish to offend any music critics; I merely want to remind them that they are not the only ones who listen to music. and that maybe, just maybe, they might find a good song on the radio once in a while. 
Tony Lang is a sophomore in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. 


Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 



General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief.. . .... Kevin Becker Business ManRger............. ~······~Bnan P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.... .. .Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.~ ···~~·~ David Culligan News Editor... ..Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager. ~ ... Melinda Chapleau News Editor~.... . ~~ ............. Jim Riley Production Manager.~ ~·~ ·~Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity Viewpoint Editor ............. ~. . ....... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ... ~. Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor.~ ... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ......... ~ ~ ~ ..... ~~ .. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor.. ~ ............ Michael Naughton Controller........ ~ .......... ~ ~ ............. Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .. Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager Laura Stanton Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor ............. ~ ........................... Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 


Accent
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 
page 7 

A special summer at Notre Dame 
KIM YURATOVAC capacity with. an audience 
representing different countries , 
assistant accent editor and customs but the cheers and • · 
While most Notre Dame and smiles made it clear that they all Saint Mary's students were enjoy-shared in the Special Olympics ,, 
ing their time away from dream. 
campus, there was something The week was filled with the 
magical happening here. usual summer sporting events 
The VII International Summer including aquatics, athletics, Special Olympics Games basketball, gymnastics, soccer brought over 4, 500 athletes and softball. Demonstration from 72 countries to Notre Dame sports included bowling. July .31 -August 8. Along with rollerskating. and equestrian the athletes came thousands of events. But there were more ac­coaches, volunteers and sup-tivities to amuse the athletes. porters who helped make 1987's Saint Mary's O'Laughlin largest athletic event a success. Auditorium was the home of 
This year's Games, the largest EXPO center which housed ex-in Special Olympics history, hibits from participating started a new tradition when ABC countries. nationally televised the Opening O'Laughlin Lawn hosted Ceremonies from Notre Damt several sporting events including Stadium. The Ceremonies, "Snow Fest" where 240 tons of hosted by Oprah Winfrey and Ar-ice were brought in by Red nold Schwarzeneggar. Included Lobster to make "Mount Special performances by Whitney Hous-Olympus" where athletes ton, Barbara Mandrell. John Den-learned to ski. Olympians from ver and many others. Zimbabwe particularly enjoyed 
Frank Gifford narrated the the event because they had never event introducing each delega-before seen snow. lion ofathletes saying. "Let them One of the most popular rea­know they're welcome. Let them tures of the Games was "Olympic know we love them." The audi-Town." Located behind the Joyce ence applauded and chanted in ACC. Olympic Town offered approval. They held blue and ahtletes, coaches and their The Notre Dame campus was alive with the ex-this summer. Participants came from around thegold banners to make their own families a chance to get away cltement of the largest Special Olympics ever world to compete and celebrate.
"wave." from competing and enjoy 
"Tonight. they cheer for you," socializing. AT&'T sponsored a from kimonos to t-shirts were dozen pins that he had acquired Pasquerilla East was home to the 
Special Olympics founder Eunice booth at which the athletes could traded with people from other through trading. Yugoslavians, the Nicaraguans 
Kennedy Shriver told the audi-call anywhere in the worl<., for delegations. Each delegation Celebrities attended events stayed in Carroll and the French 
ence. "You are the stars and the free. sported their own pins with their throughout the week. Some, like were in Sorin. Live-in hosts 
world is watching you." But the favorite Olympic Town delegation's logo. By the end of Oprah Winfrey and Arnold learned about the culture of their 
The stadium was filled to activity was trading. Everything the Games, each athlete wore a Schwarzeneggar, left with the guests so that they could help 
cameras, but others, including make their stays enjoyable. 
the Kennedy family, The 16,000 volunteers ln­
"Bewitched's" Dick Sargent and eluded a number of Notre Dame 
former Olympians Mary Lou Ret-and Saint Mary's students who 
ton and Bart Connor competed helped coordinate events, 
in events like the "Civitan served as live-in hosts and 
What do you know? 
Associated Press though these may offend their because of recent discoveries Celebrity Challenge" and sup-helped to promote the Games.
Editor's note: how much do religious beliefs, in a case of: (a) color changes due to ported the athletes by hugging For these student volunteers as you remember about the referring to a school district in: instable dyes; (b) secret. unaut­them and handing out their well as their local counterpartsstories that have been in the (a) Tennessee; (b) Alabama; (c) horized marks made by medals. and the athletes themselves, the news recently? If you score Georgia. engravers; (c) misspellings. 
The dorms were home to ath-VII International Summer Spe­fewer than five correct answers, 4. The Commerce Depart­letes, coaches and live-in hosts. cial Olympics remains a happy you have been spending too ment reported that In July 8. The lower house of Parlia-All of the halls were occupied. memory.
much time on the crossword. If personal savings fell to 2.8 ment voted to tighten controls 
you get eight or more right. percent and consumer spend­over strategic exports to Com­
you rate an "A." ing: (a) rose by 0.9 percent; (b) munist countries and increase 
Unique opportunity to 
I. A major stumbling block fell by 2.9 percent; (c) rose by penalties for violators in: (a) at the Geneva U.S.-Soviet I . 9 percent. Japan; (b) West Germany; (c) 

learn and travel abroad 
negotiations to ban 5. Marine Sgt. Clayton J. Israel. M.J.GRANT
intermediate-range nuclear Lonetree, found guilty of pass­9. Federal biologists began a the Hilton. There's no private 
arms was removed when: (a) ing secrets to Soviet agents relocation effort to find new features writer bath or bathroom. But It has 
the Soviets agreed to unlimited while stationed at the U.S. homes further down the Cali­or 14 years, Saint Mary's worked out really well." missile site inspection; (b) West embassy In Moscow, was sen­fornia coast where some mem­FCollege has sponsored a The students who partici­
Germany agreed to get rid of tenced to: (a) Life in prison; (b) bers of this endangered summer program to London pated In the program are very 
its Pershing I A missiles if the a $.3, 000 fine and dishonorable species would be less vulner­and Rome. Students who par­enthusiastic. Lisa Coleman, a 
two superpowers concluded a discharge; (c) .30 years in able to extinction from oil spills ticipate in both programs travel student from Saint Mary's said, 
pact; (c) the U.S. agreed to link prison. --the animals are: (a) sea otters; through Europe for .31 days "The London program was a 
space-defense issues. 6. A federal report said that (b) sea lions; (c) seals. and can earn up to six credits. chance of a lifetime. The things 
2. The Pentagon said about the proportion of prospective The program is open to we saw, and the people we met anyone. were incredible. Traveling
10,000 U.S. military personnel public school teachers who fail I 0. Mildred Holt ~s in the The London program mem­abroad is an unforgettable ex­
serving In the Persian Gulf the certification exams about news --she: (a) swam the En­bers spend several days in perience." Julia Merkel. a Notre
region would receive danger half the states now require of glish Channel both ways in Ireland, Scotland, and Paris. Dame senior, decided she likedpay, amounting to a monthly those applying for classroom record time; (b) gave birth to Those in the three week pro­"the city Assisi the best be­bonus of (a) $1 I 0; (b) $75; (c) jobs is: (a) 7 percent; (b) I 0 septuplets in Australia; (c) at gram to Rome stay In Rome for cause it was peaceful and the$90. percent; (c) 17 percent. age I05 became the oldest only ten days. The majority of Italians were really friendly."
.3. A federal appeals court 7. Government officials and guest on "The Tonight Show." 
the days are filled touring There are many different ruled that public school stu­stamp collectors began making 
France, Germany, Switzerland course options one can enroll dents can be required to read detailed Inspections of all U.S. :>'Ol e·5 e·s q·L =>'9 
and Italy. Anthony Black. asso­in while on the program. Rome 

and discuss textbooks even stamps engraved since 1980 :>·c;; e·v 1?'£ e·z: q·1 :sHJMSIJV 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
BVI IF 'NE WE~\ ll'lTO 11\E RIGIIT. O~C£ ~VT\.JRE, WE <DJlD SWIPE 1'111 RIC\·\, 1 
~ME:rni~G f\l'll> IJRETEJ~\) 10 CAN 11/1!.£ 
\~\100 IT W~ffi WE GC>T SJ!ol.~8<l~ \C) 
~(.1<.. WE <llVLO l3t QIC~. Ti\KE AU. til~ 
D\Jl-\B \tSI':>! 

ciate professor of history at offers Business, Italian, and a Saint Mary's and coordinator history class that involves lec­
for the summer program feels tures and tours. In London, the trip is "A great opportunity studies Included the British 
for people the same age and view of nature, Sociology, or outlook to do things they have even Travel Photo Workshop. never done before." Kathleen Smith from Saint 
Last summer, 64 people Mary's said "London was a participated in the London pro­wonderful trip, getting to know gram and .34 went to Rome. people from here as well as The cost for living acommoda­abroad." The experience Is tions at small hotels or guest definitely beneficial. It allows houses, Including meals is one to learn about a different $2,495. Black associates the culture, and as Black ·puts It, living condllons to that of a "enjoy European History and dorm. "The hotels aren't like have a good time." 
page 8 


Sports Briefs . 
WVFI-AM 64 will have a mandatory meeting for all returning sports staff members tomorrow at 10:30 p.m. at the WVFI studio. Any questions, call Sean Pieri or Jamey Rappis at 2266. -The Observer 
The ND Aikikai will have its first Aikido practice tomorrow at 6 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Aikido is a Japanese martial art which employs wrist locks instead of relying on physical strength. Call Brian at 1942 or 1023 with any questions. -The Observer 
O.C. Football will have an organizational meeting tomorrow on Green Field at 4 p.m. If you are unable to attend, leave your name at the NVA office. Call John Brun­ner at 234-8382 if you have questions. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will have a booth at Stepan Center tonight. Players of all levels are encouraged to sign up. 
-The Observer 

The TaeKwonDo Club will demonstrate their art at the ND and SMC Activities Nights, tonight and tomor­row. The first class will be Monday, September 7. For more information, call Greg Barron at 2180 or Chris Thomas at 3540. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Theatre for anyone interested in joining. Direct questions to Marty Watts at 288-8732. -The Observer 
' 

The swim team will hold tryouts tomorrow at 5:30 
p.m. and Thursday at 6:30a.m. Tryouts are held at Rolf's Aquatic Center and swimmers must bring their own suit and goggles. -The Observer 
The SMC Athletic Council will be sponsoring a picnic for all varsity athletes and those interested in be­coming varsity athletes Thursday, September 3, on the east side of Angela at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Tuesday, September 1, 1987
The Observer 


AI Baker and the St. Louis Cardinals dealt the Chicago Bears their first pre-season loss Monday night at Soldier Field. The 20-16 decision left 
Cards pass by Bears, 20-16 
Associated Press gained possession in the second Mike Tomczak made his half, they drove 70 yards in third straight start at quarter­CHICAGO-Wide receiver seven plays for a touchdown back for the Bears in the ab­Don Holmes grabbed two capped by Cliff Stoudt's 31-sence of injured Jim McMahon. 
touchdown passes, including a yard pass to Holmes. He played the first half and "Hail Mary" toss by Neil The outcome left both the completed 15 of 23 passes for Lomax on the final play of the Bears and Cardinals with 2-1 132 yards but failed to get the 
first half Monday night, to lead records and with Chicago's team on the board. the St. Louis Cardinals to a 20-Mike Ditka still seeking his 16 exhibition NFL victory over first coaching victory over the Late in the third period, the the Chicago Bears. Cardinals. Ditka is 0-6 in Bears marched 68 yards in 10 
With three seconds left in the preseason play against the Car­plays under quarterback Doug half after the Cardinals had dinals and 0-2 in regular-season Flutie and scored a touchdown blocked a field goal attempt, competition. on a 13-yard run by Thomas Lomax lofted a pass into the Lomax, playing only in the Sanders. end zone and Holmes grabbed first half, also threw a 13-yard it for a 38-yard touchdown after touchdown pass to Troy Flutie also capped a 69-yardit bounded off two Bears for a Johnson in the first quarter. He drive with a 5-yard touchdown 13-2 halftime lead. completed 12 of 21 passes for pass to Riley Walton in the 
The first time the Cardinals 128 yards. fourth quarter. 
AP Photo Bears coach Mike Dltka with an 0-8 career record against St. Louis. 
n.~Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Cent•. accepts classified advertising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n. ~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~GoUge Cent•. accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per live ctMractens p.-day. 
NOTICES 
DOES your group need aT-shirt design? How about T-shirts or other imprinted sportswear?? I work thru a local T-shirt shop--reasonable prices. Call John at 1662. 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949; H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Ad trip ride offerd to Chic. !¥4-Q.6 277· 4149 
Foreigner's Bible Study Starting Sept 3, thursday evenings 7-8:30 pm at 1010 Notre Dame Avenue. Apt 4. If you know nothing about Christianity, but are inter· ested. Foreigners especially welcome. we will try to speak simple English. Dl· rectlona: Walk down (15 min) Notre Dame Av 1ill Howard Street (STOP sign). You can also take the 7pm city bus. White stone house with trees just before Howard. Quntlona? Call 287 4855, or just come and see. 
I LOST/FOUND I 
PI.EASE!! Whoever accidently took my small, uphots1ered PINK ARM CHAIR and laminated wood BOOKCASE from ALUMNI HALL STORAGE please call Eileen at 271-0952. I can't afford new furniture. THANK YOU! 
LOST-LOST-LOST I left my pink jean jacket on one of the Senior Class buses that went to Chicago Wednesday. The bus company doesn't have it, so some nice concerned Domer must have picked it up for me. Thanks a millionllll Please call the Senior Class Office at £239-5136 and ask for Amy so I can thank you and pick rt up. H no one is in, please leave a message on the answering machine. 

LOST: I left a stereo cabinet at MASTER MINI·WAREHOUSE on Aug. 22 REWARD!!!! Call BILLY (288·4319) or KIRSTIN (x2596) 
HELPIII I LOST MY BLUE JEAN JACKET! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TIM BAUMAN AT 1204. REWARD!!!! 
MIXED SHOES AT BEACH VOLLEY­BALL FRIDAY? I PICKED UP YOURS. TO EXCHANGE·-CALL 2304 
LOST A GOLD INITIAL RING WITH A LETTER "P" ON IT FRIDAY NIGHT AT EITHER MORRISSEY DT OR SECOND FLOOR OR CAMPUS VIEW. IF FOUND, CALL PAM AT 284-5228. THANKS 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219·291-7153. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288-095&255-3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 
FAIR PRICES 277·3097 683-8889 
NEED MORE SPACE? OPEN HOUSE Monday and Tuesday, &31 and !V1, 6PM BPM. Duplex for rent. Each unit has 2 bedrooms, kitchen, livingroom and full bath. Come see 527 S. Eddy and be settled in by the weekend I 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. 
Share large house near downtown. 100 mo. e 1l.l util. Grad student, non-smoker. 289-8792, Paul 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272·5959 
FOR SALE 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1·312-742-1142, EXT. 7316. ........................................... For Sate: Compugraphics Unisetter Jr.. font strips, and width cards. Direct all inquiries to the Systems Manager of The Observer. 
Mac 512K w-tase. $950 or best offer. 654-3323, leave message. 
.................. ... ..... ········ ················ ...... 1980 Yamaha 400 Special, good con­d.,$600 or best. 654-3323, leave mes· sage. 
IBM XT clone 1 yr old 640 K Wi20 MB hardrive & NEW ITT RGB monitor $1200 OBO, call Jennifer 259-5840 
NEW IBM software wmanuals Microsoft Word, Flight Simulator, mise games $300 OBO, call Jen 259-5840 
FOR SALE: 1973 RED VW BUS GOOD CONDITION RUNS WELL SEE AT BRIDGETS ANOOR CALL MEGAN 2562 
1979 Honda Prelude. black, 5 speed, AMf'M stereo cassette player, electric sunroof, cruse control, new front brakes. Runs well, looks good. MUST SELL. $1195. THE NUMBER IS : 289-1586. 
• • • RAYBANS • • • Aviator 31.80 Out­doorsman 35.00 Wayfarer 29.30 Waylarerll 32.10 S.va 40%;cataloga;1-800-4RAYBAN 
FOR SALE Electronic typewriter, lift-off correction. 14 months old, little used. $130. Call Anne 283 4350 
CARl 79 GRANADA FORD 64k miles autCJ1x>wer only$700 271-0114 
TICKETS ] 
HELP II I need three Michigan State GA's. Please ball 283-2059 and ask for Paul. 
$$ I NEED NAVY GA'S $$ NEED NAVY FOOTBALL TICK· ETS.CALL JOHN C 3684! 
WANTED: AT LEAST 2 USC TICKETS FOR OCT. 24. CALL 1120 
PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 
Have 2 tix for Mich. State. Will trade for Navy or B.C. Call 717 339-3141. 
Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0756 . 
HELP! I need 2 GA's for any home football game. Call Janice at 271·9130 evenings or 283-4653 days. 
I need 2 GA's tor Mich St! Please call Ned at 3515. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH. MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I NEED TWO (2) GA TIX TO THE NAVY GAME CALL CHUCK AT 283-2443 
HELP! I NEED 8 USC TICKETS. CALL 
RANDY AT 3185 WILL BUY, SELL. OR TAPDANCE NUDE FOR. 
NEED 5 MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'S CALL DON 2506 
NEED 6 TIX FOR NO-USC GAME OCT.24. CALL COLLECT 717-339-1040, BILL DITCHEY, MT. CARMEL, PA. 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
Need STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATIONS Pay $$$ Lowenbrau? just call 3336 
I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX--AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S OR ONE GA AND ONE STUDENT TICKET FOR NAVY GAME. 225 LEWIS OR CALL 3735 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UP! 
CHIPS! CHIPS! Tues. Nile! blank generation 
WONDER why many !lock madly simply to join a group In hopes of lame, popularity, end Increased 
exposure to the opposite sex??? so do we ... · SOCIOLOGY CLUB -Activities Night 
BASS PLAYER WANTED FOR BAND. CALL 2175 OR 1648. 
4th Cavanaugh. mys-tar'sgoingtowardsmaryhow aboutyours31 sorbets? can 'tyouseethehalowe havetogetridofthat orangestuffgolffield? ubo'sshakemmmbetter ratioinb iknow 20minutesheeheedon'tforgetme Love, Patty 
Majo,Maria,Connie,Gia, Thanks for being such sweeties. I had a blast! Me 
FOR THE BEST IN MUSICAL ENTER­TAINMENT CALL 
ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED 
THE PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY SERVICE ASK FOR BRIAN 2743 OR 271..0754 
RIDE NEEDED:U. of Illinois Sept. 4-6, Will Pay WELL, Call Lynn 4297 
2.718281828459045 "10051" and you know what i mean WE DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 

I.U. THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY FOR ALL GAS. CALL MIKE AT 3375. 
BE AN AYATOLLAH FOR A DAY Join the Model United Nations Club at Ac· tivites Fair or Call £1575 
CHIPS CHIPS CHIPS SEE BLANK GEN­ERATION TUESDAY NITEI!! 
CHIPS CHIPS CHIPS SEE BLANK GEN· ERATION TUESDAY NITEII! 
SIGN UP FOR WVFI 6400 AM D·JAY'S NEWS AND SPORTS SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SIGN UP AT TONITE'S STUDENT AC· TIVITIES NIGHT. THIS WILL BE THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO TRY OUT THIS YEAR. WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI 
JUNIORS! 
Hi Sandy It's me ... Dave. 

Adven1ures in Babysitting It Starring Sandy C. 
Chilling! Scared us to death! Two thumbs up! -Slsket and Ebert. 
THE CLASS PICNIC HAS BEEN RES­CHEDULED FOR THURSDAY, SEPT 3 AT STEPAN FIELD. 5:00P.M. HOT AIR BALLOONING & TUNES! 
GULLY YOUR REVELATION OF THE WEEKEND IS 100% CORRECT. EVERYONE WHO HAS ONE .. . DON'T WORY ABOUT THE CASE...AT LEAST YOU'VE STILL GOT YOUR DIG­NITY. SOUNDS GOOD ANYWAY. LOVE. A FRIEND WHO UNDER­STANDS 
MR. POINSATTE; YOU HAVE AN ATTI­TUDE PROBLEM. YOUR FIANCEES P.S.-HOWS VA SUMMA? 
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 
The Observer page 9 
NL roundup 
Redbirds run streak to six 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-John Tudor pitched eight shutout innings as St. Louis beat the Cincinnati Reds 4-0 Monday night for the Cardinals' sixth straight vic­tory. 
The Reds, third in the Na­tional League West, have dropped nine of their last 10 games. 
Tudor, 5-2, allowed five hits, walked one and struck out four in his seventh start since com­ing off the disabled list. Todd Worrell got the final three outs for the first-place Cardinals, al­lowing one hit. 
Willie McGee extended his hitting streak to 12 games in leading the Cardinals' offense with a single, double and two runs batted in. 
Pirates 7, Braves 3 
PITTSBURGH -Mike Dunne pitched a six-hitter and rookie Jose Lind hit a two-run triple as Pittsburgh beat the Atlanta Braves 7-3 Monday night for 
the Pirates' seventh straight 
victory. 

Dunne, 9-5, allowed an un­
earned run in the third and 
gave up Ozzie Virgil's 24th 
homer, a two-run shot, in the 
seventh. 

Cubs 4, Astros 3 
HOUSTON Ryne 
Sandberg's first-inning home 
run established a single-season 
Chicago record for homers and 
the Cubs defeated Houston 4-3 
Monday night, sending the 
Astros to their season-high 
sixth straight loss. 
Sandberg's home run, his 
15th, gave the Cubs 183 for the 
season. Chicago's previow;j 
record of 182 was set in 1958. 
Phillies 4, Dodgers 2 
LOS ANGELES -Shane Rawley improved his lifetime record against Los Angeles to 9-0 and Mike Schmidt hit his 523rd home run as the Philadel­phia Phillies defeated Los An­geles 4-2 Monday night, the Dodgers' fifth straight loss. 
IF 

YOU THOUGHT YOU COULDN'T START AT THE TOP 
NOW YOU 
MAY 
Explore career opportunities with an industry leader which 
• 
Demands Entrepreneurship 

• 
Emphasizes Career Grnwth Based on Individual Performance 

• 
Offers Immediate Responsibility 

• 
Provides a TOP-rated Executive Training Program 


Please Join Us At An Open House 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1987 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
THE ANNAPOLIS ROOM 
10:00 A.M.-4:00 P.M. 

Dress is casual and we will be 
pleased to accept your resume 
(If available) 

THE MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY EXCELLENCE IN RETAILING 
Giants 5, Expos 0 
SAN FRANCISCO -Dave Dravecky pitched a five-hitter for his third shutout of the season as the San Francisco Giants blanked the Montreal Expos 5-0 Monday night. 
Mets 6, Padres 5 
SAN DIEGO Howard Johnson led off the lOth inning with his 33rd home run to give the New York Mets a 6-5 vic­tory over the San Diego Padres Monday night. 
National League 
St. Louis rilew York Montreal Philadelphia Chicago Pittsburgh 
San Francisco Houston Cincinnati Atlanta Los Angeles San Diego 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
79  5t  .608  
74  57  .565  5.5  
73  57  .562  6  
68  63  .519  t1.5  
66  64  .508  13  
60  7t  .458  19.5  
West  
70  62  . 530  
65  66  .496  4.5  
64  68  .485  6  
56  74  .431  13  
56  75  .427  13.5  
54  77  .412  15.5  

Monday•s Results Pittsburgh 7, Atlanta 3 Chicago 4, Houston 3 
St. Louis 4, Cincinnati 0 New York 6. San Diego 5. t 0 innings Philadelphia 4, Los Angeles 2 
San Francisco 5, Montreal 0 

John Guignon 
Solid 
continued from page 12 

making forward from Califor­nia. Together last season McCourt and Morris combined for 23 goals and 16 assists. 
McCourt's reputation has 
spread ever since he cracked 
the top 10 for individual scoring 
in the nation last season. Heavy 
marking and cheap fouls may 
be in the future for McCourt, 
but he doesn't believe the other 
teams will change their strat­
egy that much . 

"It doesn't mean they weren't looki11g for me in the past," said McCourt. "I'd get fouled all the time. But having .Randy up there makes things a lot easier, because if they key on me, he'll take them to the 
hole." 

I,---------------~
~~mr,, .'"'=i\If l'iiot G-.,. \
I ::• 
I (: ·_~ 8 ctrttcl 
. ) ' read
I,: -~~ ·--IJ. J.P.'S PIZZA $t.so I 1 ~'-· FREE DELIVERY I
I I
Discounts to Students 

1 Houffi: II Mon-Thurs 11-11 1 Fri-Sat 11-1 234_4151 1I Sun 3-10 I
• 1$,1 Off
16" Deluxe 14" 6 Item

--------~-------1 
\ $2 Off Pizza 6 Items I \: Pizza I 
~---------------' 
Grace is hoping that McCourt will be a goal-a-game player this season. But McCourt isn't pressuring himself to score every game this season -just certain games. 
"I'll especially try hard against teams I didn't score against last season, like Mic­h,igan State and Bowling Green," said McCourt. "I had lots of opportunities, but I kept hitting the posts and crossbars. 
"Last year I wanted to do the goal-a-game thing, but a lot of games when we were winning big I would slack off and not get a goal. I want to try harder and keep pushing in those games." 
Junior Pat Murphy (three goals, two assists) provides ex­tra speed and quickness on the front line. And two freshmen, Danny Stebbins of Milwaukee and Rob LaMear of St. Louis, should also see playing time immediately. Grace is espe­cially high on Stebbins, who was recruited by several soc­cer powers, including Indiana. 
"Danny Stebbins is going to be a very, very fine college player," said Grace. 
The midfield positions have the most depth on the team. Re­turning are senior Paul Gluck­ow, juniors Joe Sternberg and Kurt Roemer and sophomore Rolfe Behrje. Gluckow is cur­rently out of action with a knee injury, but is expected to begin practicing soon. Roemer returns to the Irish after mis­sing last season for academic reasons. 
Grace has a number of players that can also fill in at the midfield position. Guignon has also been playing midfield, moving up from the stopper po­sition. "Johnny will be going between double stopper and midfield, depending on the game situation," said Grace. "He reads the game very well." 
Freshman Steve LaVigne of St. Louis also is in the same position as Guignon, targeted for either stopper or midfield . 
The defense has experience, but positions are not finalized. Senior captain Steve Lowney will start the season at 

,.-----------------------, sweeper, even though his nat-
KNOLLWOOD 
Help wanted 
2 part time 

positions available 
1 · 1 ft 
-morntng; a ernoon; 
-weekends involved 
-will pay minim"'um wage up to $3.75 
-apply in person ask for John 277_
1541 

L-..;1;..;6;..;6;.;;3..;;3.....;,;,B..;.a.::.,yw_o_o_d_L_n_G_r_a_n..;;;g;..e_r_ri.;;;;g_h_t_o_ff_A_d_a_m_s_R_d_._ 
_. 


=,ijim~~iiiimBJ 
1111 

The Neighborhood Study Help Program 
"Notre Dame's largest and most active service group" 
Sign up to tutor at: 
Activities Nite: Tues, Sept.1 from 7-10 PM Dining Hall Sign-ups: Sept. 2, 3, 4 from 5-7 PM Orientation Meeting: Sun, Sept 6 at 7 PM in the Library Auditorium. 
NSHP is celebrating 25 years of tutoring. 


ural position is wingback. Whe­ther Lowney will play wingback depends on the prog­ress of freshman sweeper Mike Drury of Westfield, N.J. 
Juniors Dan Gordon and Tom Pernsteiner and sophomore Dave Augustyn will all see ac­tion at the wingback position, as will freshman Paul LaVigne, the twin brother of Steve. 
Likewise things are not set 
at the keeper position. Sopho­more Dan Lyons has emerged as the starter, but senior Tim Hartigan has played well ever 
since coming back from a knee injury this week and will see action in the Loyola contest. 
"The key is the defense,"
said Guignon. "Everyone is set up front and the halves all have two years experience. But Tim Hartigan and Dan Lyons have both been playing well, Har­tigan especially ever since he came back from the injury. I couldn't believe how well he's played. He's so quick, he's an animal out there." 
With the large number of players comes the problem of playing time. Some players will be on the bench, but Grace usually begins the season by getting in as many players as possible. 
"I always sub a lot anyway," said Grace. "We have to find the best combinations that we have. 

Tuesday, September 1, 1987
page 10 The Observer 
AL roundup 

Kittle homers; bat removed 

Associated Press Detroit Tigers 7-2 Monday five runs as the Chicago White night. Sox beat the Kansas City
NEW YORK-Ron Guidry al­Royals 5-3 Monday night. lowed four hits in 7 1-3 innings Orioles 4, Mariners 3 to win his first game at Yankee BALTIMORE -Mike Hart hit 
American League
Stadium this season and Ron a home run to touch off Bal­Kittle and Don Mattingly each timore's three-run rally in the East hit two-run homers to give the fifth inning as the Orioles w L Pet. GB 
Detroit 77 52 .597New York Yankees a 4-1 vic­defeated the Seattle Mariners toronto 77 54 .588 1 
tory over the Oakland Athletics 4-3 Monday night. New York 74 57 565 4 
Milwaukee 70 60 .538 7.5
Monday night. 

Boston 62 67 .481 15 
Baltimore 60 71 .458 18 Cleveland 51 81 .386 27.5 
Athletics Manager Tony Angels 8, Blue Jays 7 
LaRussa requested that the TORONTO -Jack Howell umpires confiscate Kittle's bat scored on a passed ball in the West 
Minnesota 69 63 .523

after the Yankees' designated nth inning to spoil Toronto's Oakland 
67 64 .511 1.5 
California 66 Kansas City 65 66 .496 3.5 
hitter homered off starter Curt seven-run comeback as the 66 .500 3 
Young in the fourth inning. California Angels defeated the Texas 61 69 .469 7 Seattle
Blue Jays 8-7 Monday night. 61 70 .466 7.5 
Chicago 55 75 .423 13
Indians 7, Tigers 2 DETROIT -Tommy Hinzo White Sox 5, Royals 3 Monday's Results 
New York 4, Oakland 1

had four hits, drove in two runs CHICAGO -Carlton Fisk Baltimore 4, Seattle 3 and scored twice as the went 3-for-3, including a three­
Cleveland 7, Detroit 2 California B. Toronto 7, 11 1nn1ngs

Cleveland Indians beat the run homer, and knocked in all Chicago 5, Kansas City 3 

NVA announces deadlines 
Special to the Observer 
The following non-varsity athletics activities have a Sep­tember 2 deadline: 
•Slow 
pitch 16" softball tourn­ament. The tourney will be lim­ited to the first 32 teams to en­ter. 

•Men's 
football. There is a $40 entry fee per hall and no roster will be accepted without that fee. 

•Women's 
football rosters. A $35 fee is also due when the roster is submitted. 

•Entries 
for men's tennis, wo­men's tennis and mixed 



doubles. Every· entrant must call NVA (239-6100) on Monday, September 7 to check their op­ponent and time. 
Other deadlines: 
•All 
students interested in par­ticipating in the biathlon must sign up in the NVA office by Friday, September 4. The biathlon will consist of a half mile swim and a 2-mile run, and there are individual and team events. 

•A 
scuba diving course will be offered at a cost of $80 per stu­dent over five four-hour ses­sions starting September 6. Those interested should attend 


an information meeting at 6:00 on Wednesday, September 2 in Room 218 of the Rockne Build­ing. 
•Aerobics 
classes will be taught. Cost is $5 for a half se­mester and $8 per semester. Register in the NVA office. 

•Stretchercise 
sessions will be held Tuesdays and Thursdays at 5:20p.m. in ACC Gym 2. Cost is $8 for a full semester and $5 for a half semester. 


Proof of insurance is re­quired for participation in both contact and non-contact sports. Forms and more information ~re available in the NVA office. 
SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS 
Pictures to be taken Sept. 7 through Sept. 25 
Sign up during dinner times in the North or South Dining Halls 
* Off-Campus Seniors sign up in the Dome 
office Tuesday, Sept. 1 and Wednesday, Sept 2 from 3:00-4:30pm 
WOULD YOUR ORGANIZATION LIKE TO RENT THEODORE'S FOR YOUR NEXT CLUB FUNCTION? 
• Theodore's is available to any on-campus student organization Monday thru Wednesday 
¥A $50 deposit is required 
¥Reservations must be made 2 weeks in advance 
¥Applications can be picked up and dropped off in the Theodore's office on Mondays and Wednesdays from 
2:30-5:00.  
¥Office is acstairs near LaFortune  cessthe  ible BCAC  by  the Lounge  south  in  

283-3435 (home)
QUESTIONS?? Call Noel Murtha 
239-6940 (office) 
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 
The Observer page 11 


The Observer 
OPEN HOUSE 
on Thursday, September 3, 8:00p.m. Montgomery Room LaFortune Student Center (formerly the LaFortune Little Theater) 

Campus 
4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Cellular Control of Sex Determination in Hydra," by Dr. C. Lynne Littlefield, University of California, Irvine, Room 283, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
7:00 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Films, 3 examples of silent Freneh filmmaking in the 1920's: "Menilmontant," "Fievre," "Fantomas," Annenbe:rg Auditorium 
7:00p.m.: Engineering Placement Night sponsored by Career and Placement Servic,es for Engineering major seniors, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Varsity Volleyball SMC vs. Indiana Institutue of Technology, Angela Ath­letic Facility 9:30p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Zelig," directed by Woody Allen, 
Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Baked Cheese & Tomato Pocket Sandwich Beef Turnover Sweet & Sour Pork Roast Turkey 

Comics 
Will? MilO ITS Me YOI/1?. FRIENP OPUS ! liM -'fiFE f/N(J WORKING. 
Beer Nuts 
Saint Mary's 
Fried Chicken Baked Meatloaf with Gravy Vegetable Quiche Deli Bar 
I 
ACROSS 1 54 4 Martini fruit 9 Fundamental 
14 Yale man 15 Terror 16 Moslem 
scholars 17 Broadcast 18 Alpine region 19 Pygmies 20 Biblical king 22 Dado of a 
pedestal 24 A Ford 26 Colo. city 27 -, amas, 
a mat 30 Remit 32 Old-time 
laundry device 34 Takes care of 37 Hands over 38 Spindle 39 Bea Arthur 
role 41 Western Indian 42 Having an 
orgy 44 Let again 46 Emergent 47 lt. wine city 48 Aves. 49 Bravery 51 High nest 55 "The 
Liberator" 57 Rani's dress 58 Meat entree 61 Ice units 63 Bounder 64 Foreign 65 Lane 66 Comp. pt. 67 Aristotle's 
teacher 68 Requirements 69 Title of 
respect 
DOWN 1 Rent 2 Homer epic 3 Infection 4 Elect 5 Jilaces 
Berke Breathed 



YOV~£ GOIN6-TO NEEP A 
HAIRCUT" tF YOIJ NIWNA TOIN !(OTC:. -I 
~ 
6 Raid  
7 Stringed  
Instruments  
8 Surpassed  
9 Afr. republic  
10 Astringent  
11  Oriental  
money  
12 Total: abbr.  
13 - Cruces  
21  Tenants  
23 Las Vegas  
figures  
25 Permit  
27 Rocky ridge  
28 Idiot  
29 Beginning  
31 Slight 33 Plano keys  09101187  
34 Teasdale et  45 Timetable  55 Borscht  
al. 35 Expend  letters 47 Suitable for  Ingredient 56 Hollow stem  
36 Presley 37 Delved 40 English 43 Leghorn to Italians  cultivating 50 Immature egg 52 Speeds 53 Teheran native 54 Sea duck  58 Circuit 59 Alllng 60 By way of 62 Organized routine: abbr.  

The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Let go, Mortyl Let go, Mortyl You're pulling me lnl ... Let go, Morty! You're pulling me lnl" 

Student Union Board presents





II lEAl 
Wednesday & Thursday 7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 pm
Engineering Auditorium Admission $2 
--~ 
~ --­

Sports 
Tuesday, September 1, 1987 


'Solid' soccer squa opens season today 
By PETE GEGEN Seven veterans have at least Assistant Sports Editor two years experience on the varsity level. 
More than any other season, Add to the roster a group of excitement is in the air as the nine talented freshmen who Irish soccer team opens its 1987 have been pushing the up­season. perclassmen and play an im­
This afternoon in Chicago portant role in the upcoming Notre Dame faces Loyola (Ill.) season. at 4. Coached by Notre Dame "We're really solid," said alumnus Ray O'Connell, the junior captain John Guignon. Ramblers will be a good "We have a lot of returning opening test for the Irish. starters. But in key positions 
Notre Dame is stacked with the frosh really have to come talent at all positions, and Head up big." Coach Dennis Grace is optimis­Solid is the perfect way to tic. describe the front line. Return­
"We have more firepower up ing is junior forward Bruce top than we've ever had "Tiger" McCourt, the team's before," he said. "But our leading scorer last season and strength is our people on our the 12th-leading scorer in Notre bench." Dame soccer history, and 
Depth is the key word as junior Randy Morris, the play-
By THERESA KELLY gartner held the first spaces for p.m. Monday, according to over 36 hours. Mike Bobinski, Notre Dame's
Sports Writer Other early arrivals had dif­ticket manager. John "Quince" Adams took ferent reasons for showing up "There were no real prob­the honors as the first man in early. The Senior Class hired a lems, everyone was orderly, line to get student tickets for DJ to entertain the campers, and we got great cooperation the 1987 football season. A creating an atmosphere better from the students," said 
senior residing off campus, than any dorm on the cement Bobinski. "There is always Quince secured his place in line outside Gate 10. some confusion going from one at 1 a.m. Saturday. Several tents were erected, big line to five small ones, but 
"I'm a football nut," said and some students brought with five places to distribute, Quince. "I tried out spring of lawn chairs and armchairs. we move the people in and out sophomore year, but got cut. I Others brought mattresses or fast." want to do what I can to support full beds, and all had plenty of the team. refreshments. Bobinski says the gates gen­
"Everyone told me I was "I'm just here for the free erally stay open until 8 p.m., crazy,'' said the Kennebunk, pizza," said "Wild" Bill but most of the day's tickets Maine native, "but the wea­O'Neill. are sold by six. ther's been good. It's just like "I'm just here to eat pizza Ticket officials had to ask the camping out in the summer. with Wild Bill," said Anne Nor­seniors to clean up the area I've had a lot of fun." ton. after the line began moving. 
Quince, Bill Herzog, Paul About 250 people were in line "It was really a mess," says Christian, and Eric Baum-when the gates opened at 1: 30 Bobinski. "Garbage and 
New faces on defense 
Hard work holds down line 
By RICK RIETBROCK formed solidly throughout last Heights, Ohio, native. "Kunz is Assistant Sports Editor season as a reserve and fill-in a real leader and he and Gor­starter. man are _really playing well. 
Take away your right defen­Another reason is that reli­Fitzgerald can play and the sive tackle, who started 10 of able Tom Gorman is anchoring second group is tough, too. 11 games last season. Then can­the left tackle position. Gor­We're going to be a strong cel out your left defensive man was moved from nose unit." tackle who started 9 of 11 con­tackle (where he started The group has lost Matt Din­tests last year. against Michigan last year) fol­gens, who was slated for sub­
And then suppose your nose lowing an ankle injury to Ted stantial playing time. Dingens tackle, who started nine Fitzgerald. Gorman registered quit the team last week. But games, had back surgery for a three sacks last season and was sophomores Jeff Aim and disc injury. especially impressive down the Bryan Flannery provide depth 
This is the scenario in the stretch. at the tackle slots and junior Notre Dame defensive line, as Fitzgerald is still unable to Rich Morrison backs up Griffin Wally Kleine and Robert Banks put much weight on his ankle, at nose tackle and comes in on have gone on to the NFL, and but does not figure to miss too goal-line situations. Mike Griffin has spent his sum­much time. He will definitely mer rehabilitating. But despite see a lot of time when he Freshmen George Williams, all those unfavorable circum­returns. George Marshall and Bob Dahl stances, the Irish certainly do But perhaps the biggest rea­also have impressed in fall not view the defensive line as son for optimism is that Griffin drills and are pushing for a weakness. is back in the middle of things. playing time. 
The fifth-year senior has had While the line has looked 
"We definitely have high an outstanding fall, showing good so far in practice, Yonto hopes for this group," says few effects of his back surgery. says the real verdict cannot be Notre Dame defensive line Yonto says that Griffin is the decided until the regular coach Joe Yonto. "Nobody's rock of the unit. season is underway. worked harder than they have "He's such a battler, such a "We'd like to improve in get­and so far we are very pleased tough competitor that will al­ting consistency in our pass with what we've seen this fall." ways give it his all," he says. rush," he says. "We've looked 
A big reason nobody seems "It's a real lift to have him in strong in practice, but it's hard terribly worried about the sit­there." to tell playing against our­uation is that senior Jeff Kunz, Griffin, however, denies he is selves. We won't get a real who filled in for both Banks and the key to the group. measure on our progress until Kleine last season, is back to "I'm not really the big we start playing against some­start at right tackle. Kunz per-leader," says the Cleveland one else." 
blankets all over the place. You'd expect that after a cam­pout, but it looked really ter­rible. The students were great though. We appreciated their cooperation." 
Bobinski says the longest lines at Notre Dame are not for football but for graduation tick­ets. 
"It's ·big time at graduation when you have to get someth­ing for the parents. Football lines are shorter, but they wait longer." 
Some juniors began lining up Monday morning, a practice Bobinski would like to dis­courage. 
"It can cause some confusion with all the seniors plus some juniors waiting around," he said. "It can't make that much of a difference -there really isn't a bad seat in the whole stadium." 
Because the order of seats sold goes up the rows rather than across, Bobinski says the first junior in line will not nec­essarily get the closest seats to the field. 
The Class of '89 gets their chance to squeeze as close to the fifty-yard as possible Tues­day. Although the lines are already forming, once again Gate 10 will not open until 1:30 p.m. 
Ticket sales continue 

Spel'ia\ to The Observer 
Students are asked to bring thier application, remittance 
and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC on the day specified 
for each class. One student rna~ present a maximum of 
four (4) applications and ID cards. Married students wis­
hing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof 
of marriage. The ticket for a spouse is the same price as 
a student ticket. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent to all 
students with a campus or local address. If you have not 
yet received your application or if the class status pre­
printed on your application is incorrect1 you are asked to 
come to the Ticket Office on the secona floor of the ACC 
prior to your designated class issue day. 
Juniors: Tuesday, September 1 
Sophomores: Wednesday, September2 
Freshmen: Thursday, September 3 



