~ -~-~ -~ 
---------------------, 
College Bowl -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 101 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 'n, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving ~otre Dame and Saint Mar)·'s 

Scholastic signs agreement, will publish again 
Lanan, lifted the 4-day-old Scholastic agrees, through an the agreement reached today," cause ''people will be inter­By MARK PANKOWSKI 
suspension of the student mag­ongoing dialogue, to keep the he said. viewed for the stories and
News Editor 
azine. Office of Student Activities in­Mouasher said the provision people will be getting word of 
Scholastic will publish its Under the agreement's formed of pertinent issues," that Scholastic keep Student the stories," Mouasher said. next regular scheduled issue on terms, all decisions concerning the agreement continues. Activities informed of per­Student Activities also will be Thursday after reaching an the content of Scholastic "will "Scholastic reaffirms its com­tinent issues "in no way in contact with Scholastic be­agreement with the Office of remain with its student mitment to responsible jour­reflects on the editorial content cause the office is ultimately Student Activities. editors." nalistic standards." of the magazine or editorial responsible for the magazine's 
The agreement, signed by The magazine also "will be Scholastic will publish its decisions that will be made." finances, he said. Scholastic Editor Maher free of prior approval of copy," next regularly-scheduled issue Student Activities generally Mouasher said the agree-Mouasher and Assistant Direc­the agreement states. on Thursday, Mouasher said. will know what articles the tor of Student Activities Adele "At the same time, however, "We're very happy ... with magazine is working on be-see SCHOLASTIC, page 6 
I'he Observer I Jeff Otto 
curity Council staffer Oliver North, whoNight spots was fired last November. 
Color by AaheuJer-Busch. Inc. 
As viewed from Holy Cross Hall, the bright lights of late Dome beams and Sacred Heart Church a-spires to new Regan, expected to resign within night studiers illuminate a winter's campus. The Golden heights in light. days, bears "primary responsibility for 
the chaos that descended upon the White House" after the affair was dis­
Agriculture secretary urges new trade rules 
closed, and Poindexter "failed grievously" by not telling the president about the diversion of arms money to
By MIRIAM HILL "We've thought of ourselves as able able when they're not economically Nicaraguan rebels, the report said. 
Senior Staff Reporter to produce what we need and sell what viable." we don't need and do. fairly well. That Instead, he said, the United States The board estimated that Iran over­
The United States must work with just won't work anymore," Lyng said. must encourage trade negotiations to paid $3 million for arms in 1985 and other countries to develop global rules Lyng said he disagreed with parts of develop global rules governing sub­nearly $20 million in 1986, and said, of trade if the hardships of America's the U.S. bishops' pastoral letter on the sidies, barriers to trade, and access to "Sizable sums of money generated by farmers are to end, the Secretary of economy, which stated that the govern­agricultural markets. Representatives the arms sales to Iran remain unac­Agriculture said Thursday. ment should set up programs to from 74 countries are holding talks in counted for." 
"We in the United States are part of preserve the family farm. Geneva to develop such rules, he said. The panel said Israel played a major a global economy, and that's something "I think the bishops statement is "I think it's our only hope if we're role in keeping the Iranian initiative none of us wholly understands," said strong on the heart but weak on the going to achieve some kind of going because it wanted to promote its Secretary Richard Lyng, speaking to a head, to put it bluntly," he said. stability.'' arms export industry, strengthen Iran group of about 50 Notre Dame students "The bishops believe somehow the Lyng, who received his diploma from against Israel's adversary, Iraq, and and faculty in the auditorium of the government should structure agricul­Center for Continuing Education. ture so that small family farms are vi-see TRADE, page 7 see TOWER, page 4 

7,900 apply for admission to next year's freshman class 
By JOHN KELLY President Father Theodore Dame as the primary reason four entering classes. "The number of high school News staff Hesburgh and Father Edmund for the increase in applications. "The increase in the seniors has been and will con­Joyce, has increased national The admissions office has percentage of women makes tinue to decline through 1990," Notre Dame has received a awareness of the academic made a concerted effort to in­Notre Dame more attractive to Rooney said. He said he ex­record number of applications quality of the University, ac­crease the number of applica­both males and females," pects the number of Notre for admission in the fall of 1987. cording to Rooney. tions through the use of direct Rooney said. Dame applicants to remain 
Kevin Rooney, director of ad­mailing, local alumni commit­The representation of women high.
"The academic reputation of
missions, said nearly 7,900 tees, and student recruitment, on campus was projected by Discussing the quality of the 
Notre Dame has increased
people have applied for 1,820 said Rooney. Rooney to expand from an applicants, Rooney said
steadily through the tenure of
positions in next year's fresh­The conversion of Howard average of 28 percent over the "Besides being the largest it
these two individuals; more 
man class, an increase of 18 Hall and planned construction past four years to 36 percent is the strongest group we h~ve
and more people are beginning
percent more than the average of two new women's dor­next year. had.
to realize this," said Rooney. 
for recent years. mitories will accomodate an in­The improved ratio will "We'll have to make more Publicity from the upcoming He cited recognition of the crease in the admission of wo­"promote a healthier atmo­tough decisions than ever retirements of University scholastic excellence of Notre men by 150 in each of the next sphere here," said Rooney. before." 
• 

Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 2 
The Observer 

In Brief 
The theft in Morrissey Hall that occured in an unlocked room Wednesday night is still under investigation by Notre Dame Security. Two speakers, a receiver, a tape deck, a portable radio and a wallet were taken while the room's occupants were away, Assistant Director of Secur­ity Phil Johnson said. The value of the stolen items was placed at about $1,100. Johnson said the theft, which prob­ably involved more than one person, occurred between 
7:30 and 10 p.m. Johnson asked that anyone noticing any suspicious activity during that time contact Security at 239-5555. 
George Shuliz's tiger tattoo is now public knowledge after the secretary of state's wife confirmed the existence of his tattoo at a news conference. "He got it at Princeton," as a student, she said. "When the children were young, they used to run up and touch it, and he would growl, and they would run away." Said the secretary of state: "I don't have any secrets left. That's the only thing I have left, what is on my rear end." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"From African Music To Jazz," the fourth in a series of six lectures in the University's annual Black Cultural Arts Festival, will be presented tonight at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
''Authority and Democracy: Paulo Freire and the Philosophy of Education," the second Friday forum in the series "The Constitution and Higher Education," will be presented by Prof. Alven Neiman today at 12: 15 in the Multi-Purpose Room of the Center for Social Con­cerns. -The Observer 
The Joint Engineering Council will hold its officer's elections on Wednesday, March 4. Interested stu­dents may pick up applications until March 3 in Room 217 Cushing Hall. -The Observer 
A Spanish Mass will be celebrated by Father Pat Foley Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Farley Hall Chapel. -The Observer 
The International Student Organization Festival meeting will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the ISO lounge. Last year's festival and a movie will be shown. 
The Observer 
WVFI-AM, Notre Dame's campus radio station, will not resume broadcasting until after spring break. Delays in the shipment of transmitters and other necessary equip­ment are responsible for the problem. -The Observer 
Xiao You, violinist from the University of Cincinnati College Conservatory of Music, will appear in the in­augural recital of the Saint Mary's Graduate Artist Recital series, tonight at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
"The Catholic Faith Series" continues Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Father Monk Malloy, president-elect, will speak on "What Catholics Should Know About Morality."-The Observer 

Weather ' 
It's a bird, it's a plane -no, it can't be -it's still winter. We'll still be flying high in the breeze today with a 40 percent chance of rain Friday and an 80 percent chance on Saturday. Low in the upper 30s and high in the middle 40s. 


Design Editor .......... Jane Anne Riedford Camp..., ocene <;auors ........... Ed Nolan Deaign Auiatant ............ Tom Schiesser ........................................ Cindy Petrites Typeaetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton Campus Scene Layout .... Ann Biddlecom ........................................... Michael Buc .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . . . Heather Hypes Newa Editor... . ........... Jim Riley ........................................... Karen Webb Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . ............ Cathy Stacy Typiat.... .. ...... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor ............... James Winkler Sports Copy Editor ............. Terry Lynch SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Viewpoint Copy Editor........ Pam Bethel Ad Design............... Catherine Ramsden Viewpoint Layout ..... Ann Marie Durning Photographer ................. Joann Whitfield 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObRrver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writmg Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Those good looking women: where did they come from? 
An excerpt from one of many JPW conversa­tions: 
John: "Hey, Mark, what's up?" 
Mark: "My parents got lost again." 
John: "Yeah, mine too. Say, where do you think they got all these good looking women?" 
Mark: "Geez, I don't know. Maybe they trucked them in for the weekend from Bowling Green." 
John: "They must have. They sure don't go here." (A blonde in a red dress walks by. Both guys stare.) Mark: "Wait a minute--I know her. What hap­pened?" John: "Beats me, but I wish they'd do this more often, whatever it is." 
I had several conversations like this through­out Junior Parents Weekend. A lot of guys I know were seriously impressed, almost to the point of disbelief. We discussed several theories about the origins of these beautiful women. Some said Bowling Green. Some said they drugged our food. Some said the administration keeps them locked in the basement of the Dome except for special chaperoned events like JPW and commencement. 
My personal favorite was the alternate campus theory: like Indiana University, there is more than one Notre Dame campus. They get pictures of all the women admitted to Notre Dame and send all the good looking ones to Notre Dame-Elkhart, where they will never be found and corrupted by us slimy Notre Dame menfolk. 
Notre Dame male stereotypes include one about the rating scale. The story goes that, when normal women are rated on a scale from one to ten, Notre Dame women get a handicap of plus two. This is just one of many jokes around that have probably been here as long as women have. Most guys say they're kidding, but I think most of us believe all those stereotypes. Still. 
But we have to realize that these women are not figments of our imagination. They attend the University of Notre Dame, the one in South Bend, Indiana. Yes, underneath the sweats and the baggy sweaters and the winter overcoats are real women. 
Sure, it would be nice if all the girls around here made more of an effort to dress up and look nice and not show up to morning classes with their hair undone. But let's be realistic. The guys around here dress worse than the girls do. As I look around the newsroom tonight, I see two guys in sweats, six in blue jeans, and 
: 
•: • •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Mark Mclaughlin 

.

Production Manager ..__ 

one in slacks. Not too good a record for a group that complains about other peoples' dressing habits. 
In fact, all that complaining about the "Notre Dame factor" and the baggy sweaters and the ice cream fiends at Breen-Phillips is simply an elaborate rationalization. It's all a smoke screen intended to hide the fact that most guys around here are too wimpy to ask any girls out. Let's face it -it's much easier to sit around the dorm room complaining with all your room­mates than it is to pick up the phone. Whether we all choose to admit it or not, we're all scared to death. We're scared of losing our self-esteem if we're rejected. We're afraid of being laughed at. So what? She says no? Call another one. There's a couple of thousand out there. As they say, there's lots of fish in the sea, even in Notre Dame's little corner of it. 
There's only one way to break the stereotype, of course. 
Pick up the phone. 
Call up a nice girl. 
Ask her out. 
Yeah, on a date. Look. It's Friday. Odds are that, for the majority of guys on this campus, at least one of the next two nights is looking awfully empty. Wouldn't you rather be on a date than in the 'Brar? Or sitting around the dorm drinking? Or standing at some off­campus party drinking? 
Wake up. Look around. Once you leave Notre Dame, you will never see this many girls in one place again. And many of them are waiting by the phone. Really. 
If you don't believe me, ask them. 
SAB presents: 
A Pre-Lenten experience and a reason to party! 

: IPSO easy to party. And its a FACTO that tonight : 
: is your last night before Lent. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Get it in while you can 
IPSO FACTO 
: Tuesday, March 3 Theodore's : 8 pm FREE 
• 

:
•
•
: •
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
: •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• : • 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 3 
Security Beat 
Tuesday 
9:30p.m. -Four Notre Dame Se­curity officers testified in the trial of a juvenile who was charged with carrying a loaded handgun without a permit. The charge stems from an incident occurring Jan. 29 in the D-6 parking lot when the officers responded to a call regarding some suspicious persons. During the in­vestigation, officers found a vehi­cle that was broken into, and they 
believed  the  persons  with  the  
juvenile  were  responsible.  The  
juvenile was found guilty.  

2:50p.m. -A Walsh Hall resident reported that her vehicle was bro­ken into while parked in the D-11ot. The culprit or culprits entered the locked vehicle by smashing its rear window. An AMFM stereo cassette tape player was removed from the dash, damaging the vehicle's inte­rior. The loss was estimated at ap­proximately $300. 
5 p.m. -A Notre Dame student' was apprehended by Bookstore personnel as he attempted to leave without paying for some merchan­dise. 
11:20 p.m. -A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported the theft of a jacket while he was playing bas­ketball in Stepan Center. The vic­tim stated he observed many non­community type people in the area. Inside the jacket was a watch that was also stolen. The total loss was estimated at $150. 
11:23 p.m. -An off-campus stu­dent broke the gate while trying to dent reported the theft of his wallet hurdle it. while he was playing basketball in­
side Stepan Center. The wallet was taken from the victim's pants, 
5:05 p.m. -A female student re­which were lying on the floor. The ported receiving a harassing phone 
loss was estimated at $20. call in her room, the second type of call the victim has received this month. Several other type calls are currently under investigation. 
Wednesday 

9:40 p.m. -A South Bend Police Department officer identified a 
2:44a.m. -A Security officer, in-Notre Dame student who was re­vestigating the thefts at Stepan sponsible for throwing toilet paper Center, found some of the property during the DePaul game. 
taken from one of the victims. The property was found in a trash dumpster located in front of the building. 
9:36a.m. -Student Health Center personnel reported the theft of a plant, valued at $50, from the build­ing's third floor. 
11:15 a.m. -A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag and contents from the South Dining Hall during lunch the previous day. The loss was estimated at $33. 
12:40 p.m. -The manager of bio­logical sciences in the Galvin Life Science Building reported the theft of 24 bottles containing frog embryos. The building recently has 
been the site of several incidents of vandalism and theft. 
3:55 p.m. -A Security officer ob­served and identified a Notre Dame student who broke the gate arm lo­cated at St. Mary's Road. The stu­

Qaeea'• Castle A The Kaighu $6atudent $8.50 cumple cut style 
AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo 1-t•r• tlae Roy•I Broaae Saataaal•• C.at... See • taa Ia •laat..... Not Hoare 
I St. ROMI 23 (behlad ~s-t.lc'-l 
TURN BROWN EVES BLUE!! 
There's no obligation to buy 
Now is the time to see what you will look like with different colored e¥,es. We know that you'll love how you look so mu~h, you 11 want a pair or two for your personal 
eye cosmetic wardrobe. 
Even if you don't need glasses ... 
Tinted soft contact le~ses are the ultimate eye cosmetic. We have every type m aqua, blue, green and brown. 
At Dr. Tavel's Preli!ium Optical you'll find everything you n~ed. to custotp.Ize your eyes. A thorough eye exammatlonhreqmred at the tlme of purchase will determine W at prescription, if any, 1S necessary. 
'The ultimate eye cosmetic ~-[v."/s.A]'Pf!O
will give you a new outlook on life. And that's a promise South Bend 
Mishawaka

from the doctor." 
1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center " I~-__ pi' acrou from Sccttadole Mall next door 10 Osco Dru~~:
~7;;;;;L_
{/Vn;L._ 291-4000 258-5000 
9:55 p.m. -The theft of several Macintosh disks were reported stolen from a Keenan resident's bookbag while it was inside his room. The loss was estimated at $14. 
11 p.m. -Four Morrissey Hall residents reported that sometime ' during the DePaul basketball game, some person or persons en­tered their unlocked room and removed a wallet and some stereo equipment. It appeared the per­petrator or perpetrators had been scared off. The scene was pro­cessed for fingerprints by Security officers. The loss was estimated at $1,100. 
11:23 p.m. -Security received a report of vandalism inside one of the Alumni-Senior Club restrooms. A Security officer on duty at the time tried to pursue three suspects, who appeared to be Notre Dame students. The suspects, however, escaped in a vehicle. 

'Star Wars' not feasible, says science advisor 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
An invulnerable antimissile defense system is impossible to create, said government sci­ence advisor Dr. Richard Gar­win in a lecture Thursday in Memorial Library Auditorium entitled "Space Defense Through Technology -The Impossible Dream?" 
"At the end of the evening you're going to know more about the strategic defense ini­tiative than President Reagan or Caspar Weinberger," Gar­win said, adding "I wish it weren't so." 
"SDI (the Strategic Defense Initiative) will not do what people want it to do" because of the countermeasures with which it can be opposed, Gar­win said. 
Garwin conceded it is possi­ble to create working antimis­sile weapons. "(It's) not so easy to make these things work, as anybody knows who has tried to make a bookcase fit the place where its supposed to go or put a plug on an ap­pliance . . . but eventually when you do this long enough you make some things work," Garwin said. 
This, however, is not the problem. " ... the question is, What are the things you want to make work? What is the goal of SDI?" 
The proponents of SDI have 

~--------~---------~------~--,
1 Tanning Center ~~ \0-c , ..,vo~ 1 I \ I ~e~ ~'f.· Q\J I
I ""'\ \ I ~~-c\~~ ~-ce "\~\~ ~ "'o"\.~~"\ I
oe\ 
1 -~ o\~G ....\~o~e-.co 1
I --==--~.,_. \\" •"'-;J I 
Lt•t The Sun Shine In
I I "---/ I I FIRST VISIT FREE! I 
------------~---------------~I Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-644( 
Open 8-8 Mon-Frl 8-4 Saturday 
two irreconclltable aims, Gar­win said. "The President's goal is to make a defense so good that we can give up our nuclear weapons.'' But yet another goal touted by proponents of SDI is "not to replace deterrence ... but to strengthen it by protect­ing enough missiles so we can be sure that we would have 
them  for  striking  back  and  
thereby  deterring  a  Soviet  
strike.  

"These are totally different, and you can tell they're totally different simply by the rhetoric which goes with them." 
Therefore, Garwin said, "We are in the business of penetrat­ing SDI, of bypassing it, as well as constructing it. It's a case of the immoveable object being encountered by the irresistable force." 
There are a number of ways for an aggressor to circumvent an anti-missile defense, accor­ding to Garwin. Among them are the use of "space mines" to destroy antimissile satellites with either shrapnel or nuclear warheads, the dispersal of decoys to foil radar, the detona­tion of nuclear warheads to "raise the background noise 
level in space," and "an­tisimulation," whereby one tries to make warheads resemble decoys. 
The only way to guarantee mutual survival as opposed to mutual destruction, which Reagan says is the goal of SDI, is through negotiated agree­ments with the Soviets, Garwin said. Calling both Reagan's and Gorbachev's proposals at the Reykjavik summit exam­ples of "fantasy," Garwin said he advocated a reduction agreement, whereby each su­perpower would be restricted to 1,000 nuclear warheads. The warheads would maintain deterrence by threatening to destroy cities rather than the much more difficult task of dis­abling the other's entire mili­tary capability. 
In addition, Garwin insisted on the preservation of the ABM treaty and the institution of a ban on space weapons and nu­clear tests. 
Notre Dame Communication Departments Film Series 
Friday, February 27 at 7:30 and 9:30pm, Snite Stranger than Paradise ( 1985) BW, 1 00 min. Directed by Jim Jarmusch, USA 
Jarm_usch's (~own by Law) amusing independent feature welds European modernism and American sleaze to produce 11 very workable defimtoon of h1p, c1ra !984. The film traces a road trip from New York to Cleveland to off-season Florida t-~en by a New York low-life his newly-immigrated Hungarian girl cousin and his best friend. Jermusch's blighted Ameriun landscape euooes Wlm Wenders. ' 
Monday, March 2 at 7pm, Snite Chinatown ( 197 4) Color, 131 min. Directed by Roman Polanski, USA Polanski's realization of Robert Towne's Oscar-winning screenplay is perhaps the finest filmic rendition of the Hammet-Chandle hard-boiled ~elective tradition. Jack Nicholson plays the detective who unravels the complex case, with Faye Dunaway providing th: dnvlng love onterest 
Monday, March 2 at 9:15pm, Snite Repulsion ( 1965) BW, 105 min. Directed by Roman Polanski, USA 
Polanski's J_ustly famous fllm details the descent Into madness by 11 lovely fragile young woman left alone for a few days In 11 London flat Cathenne Deneuve becomes a psychotic murderess, fluttering like a wounded butterfly in this top-notch psyc-hological thriller. 
----------------------------~----------~ 
Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 4 
The Observer 
College Briefs 
Western Kentucky University housing officials predict a drastic reduction in the number of false alarms this semester because the dorms got a double dose of pesticide spray over the holidays. The "vandals" blamed for last semester's multitude of false alarms were insects crawling around inside smoke detectors. -The Observer 
Nearly one-third of Stanford's current freshmen class plans to earn Ph.D's-an all-time high -reports a survey by the American Council on Education. With normal progress, four years' un­dergraduate and seven years' advanced work, cur­rent freshmen would earn their Ph.D's by 1998. ­The Observer 
A candlelight service marked the passing of a 220-year-old Elm at Smith College. New En­gland's largest American Elm fell victim to Dutch Elm disease after surviving two previous bouts of the infection. -The Observer 


Tower 
continuedfrom page 1 
establish Israel as the only real strategic partner of the United States in the Middle East. 
"With such a complex, high­risk operation, and so much at stake (in the Iran dealings), the president should have ensured that the NSC system did not fail him. He did not force his policy to undergo the most critical 
review of which the NSC parti­cipants and the process was ca­pable. At no time did he insist on accountability or perfor­mance review." 
"The president made mis­takes," said former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas, the chairman of the special review board that spent three months investigat­ing the secret sale of weapons to Iran and the diversion of profits to the Contra rebels. 
On Capitol Hill, lawmakers said the report provided evidence of the weakness of Reagan's management style, and Tower, responding to a question at a news conference, said, "You can say this presi­dent holds himself a little too aloof from the implementation of policy." 
Reagan was "poorly advised 
and poorly served" by many of 
his aides, Tower added. 
North was described as working practically in isolation on both the Iran policy and on efforts of questionable legality to raise funds to support the Nicaraguan Contra rebels. The Tower commission said Iranian arms funds were diverted to the Contras, and that North's reliance on "private intermediaries, businessmen and other finan­
r cial brokers, private operators 
r and Iranians hostile to the United States ... invited kick­backs and payoffs." 
Reagan's policy of selling arms to Iran created an incen­tive for further hostage-taking, violated the U.S. arms em­
bargo, and threatened to upset the military balance between Iran and Iraq, the board con­cluded in its inch-thick report. 
Correction 
The caption on Thursday's front-page photo incorrectly reported the sponsors of the Mardi Gras Ball. The Notre Dame Chapel Choir, the Notre Dame Chorale and the Student Activities Board are sponsoring the event. 
-
Skateboards are causing freshmen to get into counting majors in their classes. The researchers scrapes at the University of California -Santa Bar­consider the results of their study to be good news bara. Officials have found that almost three-fourths for women considering careers in business. The of campus skateboarding accident victims are proportion of women accounting majors has risen freshmen, so they're considering including from 2.4 percent in 1961 to 49 pecent in 1985. -The skateboarding awareness in orientation. But they Observer won't be imposing stricter rules since only two of 24 accidents during the fall quarter involved Midland College, in Texas, fired a professor pedestrians. -The Observer in 1984 after students complained of his language. 
He argued his words were intended to motivate 
The Official GSU Nutty Bar may be students and were sanctioned by the First Amend­replacing cigarettes at Georgia State University. ment. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court Of Appeals ruled GSU has banned cigarette sales and has removed his "language was not germane to the subject mat­10 vending machines from the campus. The move ter ... " and had no educational function. -The will slice more than $7,000 from the auxiliary ser­Observer vices office budget. But the office's director hopes to recoup the lost income through increased sales Registering for the draft may become of the "Official GSU Nutty Bar."-The Observer mandatory for male students planning to enroll in 
Colorado's public colleges. This procedure has An Ohio State University study says already been enforced in Louisiana and Tennessee. women accounting majors out-perform male ac-The Observer 
SPRING BREAK '87 



Where do the people who live in the sun, go to play inthe sun? 
Destin, Florida. the entire S.E.C. can't be wrong. Spring Break on the Gulf Coast because 
• 
it's closer 

• 
it's cheaper 

• 
the party goes on til 4:00 A.M. 

• 
and the beaches are the best in the world! 


Join Auburn, Alabama, Ole Miss, LSU, Georgia, Tennessee, Florida and the rest of the S.E.C. for Spring Break 87! 
DESTIN, FLORIDA 
I (904)837-6448I 

2 Blocks North of Amoco off Hwy 98
I I 
COUPON GOOD FOR
I I t FREE DRINK 
I 

I NOTRE DAME GOOD THRU 4/87 
~----------------------~ 


--------------~ --­
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 5 
:************************t***********************~
*

iC iC  -;--­ - ~  !  ** 
iC: -tc iC iC  STLJ[)ENT ACTIVITIES BOARD lJniversity of Notre Dame  :* * ** 
iCiC  *  
: iC  THE JOB MARKET  :** 
iCiC iC iCie iC iC iC  THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD IS SEEKING fun, dedicated, enthusiastic and creative people who would like to provide the students of Notre Dame with beneficial services and wild and crazy social activities. S.A.B. is now accepting applications for COMMISSIONER POSITIONS for the 1987-1988 school year.  * **lt lt lt lt  
~ iC iC iC iC iC  Did you see SECOND CITYorABRAMS & ANDERSON? Those comedy acts were brought by the CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION, and coming soon is the 1986 Campus Entertainer of the year, TOM DELUCA, a comedian/hypnotist. Campus Entertainment sponsors numerous social events such as ice skating and hot chocolate. sleigh rides and Christmas tree decorating, bus trips off campus to movies, restaurants and the Michigan dunes, and trips to Chicago for shopping, concerts, and games.  : lt ~ l"*  
~ ~  What about AN TOSTAL? Who are the party people who work on that? An Tostal is just one week-long event that comes under the SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSION. Other week-long  ~ l"  
~ iC iCiC iC iC iC  events include WELCOME WEEK. MULTI-CULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL and WINTER FESTIVAL. Did BERUNtake your breath away? They were brought by the MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION, as were national bands such as HENRYLEE SUMMER and THE WALUTS. with IPSO FACTO coming soon. The NAZZ COMPETITIONand BAND .JAMS feature many campus musicians and are also sponsored by Musical Entertainment.  Jllf"* * lt* * lt* 
iC iC iC  Were you one of the lucky few to get a ticket to see DR .JERRYFALWELL and former Russia Ambassador SHEVCHENKO? These sellout lectures were brought to you by the IDEAS AND ISSUES COMMISSION. Ideas and Issues sponsors national speakers to lecture at the University.  lt* lit *  
iC iC iC iC iC iC iC iC iC  What would the week be like without MOVIES at Cushing Hall of Engineering? The MOVIE COMMISSION is responsible for supplying the students with popular and classic movies on a consistent basis. Did you see PIPPIN or BILOXI BLUES at the Morris Civic? These trips were sponsored by the CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION. Although Cultural Arts includes art and theatre, it has two festivals devoted solely to literature and music. The SOPHOMORE LITERAllYFESTIVAL brings well-known authors and poets to campus to speak and the COLLEGIATE.JAZZFESTIVAL displays exceptional musical talent from schools across the country as well as attracts the great names ofjazz to judge and perform.  lt lt lt** lt lt lt lt lt  
~ iC iC iC  Going to ST.EAMBOAT or FORTlAUDERDALE over spring break? The SERVICES COMMISSION got you that great deal. Besides trips over breaks the Services Comission, as its name implies, provides students with such valuable services as STEPANMALL, refridgerator rentals, FRESHMAN DOGBOOK. and various lotteries for big games and concerts.  lt lt ~*  
iC ~  Are you a business major? Perhaps you would like to be BUSINESS AUDITOR of the Student Activities Board. The Auditor maintains the books and keeps the financial statements of the  lt ~* 
;  various S.A.B. student-run businesses such as ADWORKS, IRISH GARDENS and THE CELLAR.  
, I  iC iC iC iC iCiCiC iC iC iC iC  As you probably know, promotion either makes or breaks an event. The PUBLICITY COMMISSION coordinates all the advertising such as Observer ads, posters, table tents and other methods "to get the word out" to promote all S.A.B. sponsored events. Ifyou are creative and organized, and used to keeping deadlines, publicity may be the position for you. As you can see, there is a need for people with various talents. Ifyou are interested in any or a multiple of these commissions, please pick up an application from the Student Activities Board on the second floor of Lafortune. Applications are due by March 6 and interviews will follow the next week. this is your opportunity to get involved and to make a differ~nce in life under the Dome. No experience is NECESSARY.  * lt* * * * lt lt* lit* * 
iC  

ie************************************************* 
---~----~ 

Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 6 
The Observer 

ND students head to College Bowl national tournament 
By CATHY STACY Copy Editor 
As a result of their win last weekend, five Notre Dame stu­dents will compete for the na­tional championship of College Bowl. 
The regional tournament, held at Southern Illinois Uni­versity -Edwardsville, was at­tended by Purdue, Rose­Hulman, and several Illinois universities. 
Fifteen colleges will compete in the national tournament, which has been a traditional event for 40 years. The date and time for the nationals will be announced soon. 
Notre Dame won each of the five games in the regional with ease, said their moderator, Peter Lombardo, assistant director of the Center for Con­tinuing Education. He has been working with the Notre Dame teams for 10 years. 

This year's championship team consists of team captain Thomas Mowle, a five-year stu­dent, senior Stephen Staresinic, junior Cora Peng, sophomore Brian McKinley, and sophomore Robert Hennig (alternate). 
Lombardo said the schools that rigorously train their stu­dents and assign them to read the Almanac are losing out on an important part of the com­petition. "I can't take that seriously. It's more fun than that," he said. "Of course it's fun to win. I take the view that you should practice for the feeling of the game, but to say 'read the Almanac' takes the fun out of it." 
Notre Dame students prac­tice intracollegiately and respond to questions that have been collected over the past few years. 
The all-star team which com­peted in the regional tourna­ment was successful because of the natural abilities of its mem­bers, Lombardo said. "Notre Dame students are basically intelligent and competitive. It's another kind of game, and they want to win," he said. 
College Bowl, which was aired on television and radio up through the 1970s, is an intra­mural sport at about 200 schools throughout the nation. 

The game consists of two halves, each seven minutes long, during which two college teams of four members each answer questions from all aca­demic subjects including sci­ence, literature, and history. 
Toss-up questions are an­swered by any member of the team, and a correct answer en­titles the team to a bonus ques­tion worth up to 30 points. During a competitive game, as many as 23 toss-up and 15 bonus questions may be answered. 
Success depends on individ­ual knowledge and the ability to hit the buzzer quickly, said 
McDonald's advertising is misleading: consumer group 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON New McDonald's advertising, which emphasizes nutrition, is mis­leading to consumers who eat at the fast-food reataurant chain, a consumer group charged Thursday. 
Michael Jacobson, of the Cen­ter for Science in the Public In­terest, charged that new adver-


Scholastic 
continuedfrom page I 
ment was signed after he and Scholastic Editor-elect Kath­leen McKernan met with Lanan. 
"Everybody was in agree­ment," said Lanan, who declined to discuss specifics. "I think the agreement speaks for itself.'' 
Father Peter Rocca, assis­tant vice president for student services, said the Office of Stu­dent Affairs did not formally approve the agreement. 
"If it was fine with Adele 
(Lanan), we knew it would be 
fine with us," Rocca said. 
Director of Student Activities 
Joe Cassidy suspended Scholas­
tic because it printed a photo 
that his office previously had 
removed from Juggler's fall 
edition. 
The photo was of a student's 
artwork, which appeared to 
show a couple embraced in a 
sexual act. 
In a Feb. 22 letter discussing 
the suspension, Cassidy said 
Scholastic was subject to the 
same policies as Juggler. Be­
cause Scholastic operated con­
trary to these policies, he said, 
the magazine was suspended 
from publication. 
Contacted Thursday night, 
Cassidy said he "didn't really 
have a comment" because he 
had not yet discussed the 
agreement with Lanan. 
Cassidy said he left the 
agreement up to Lanan and 
Scholastic editors because they 
were "the ones that have to be 
comfortable with it." 
"They're the ones that have 
to operate under it," he said. 
In his letter, Cassidy said 
Student Activities is the pub­
lisher of Scholastic. 
Before the suspension, Scholastic had planned to run a preview of the Sophomore Literary Festival, Mouasher said. The magazine already had printed the issue's cover, costing Scholastic about $700. 

tising focusing on nutritional content fails to deal with the large amount of calories, fat, sodium and sugar in the com­pany's products. 
The ads may mislead many customers, Jacobson said in a letter to Ed Rensi, president of McDonalds. 
McDonald's spokeswoman Stephanie Skurdy said the new advertising campaign was 
Mouasher said the editors haven't made any final deci­sions regarding the content of the next issue. "Right now, we're looking endwhat we can do in terms of Sophomore Literary Festival coverage." 
When the issue does come out, Mouasher said he doesn't think students will perceive Scholastic as being censored. 
"I think that it's quite clear that it ... has never been cen­sored and it won't be censored according to the agreement we carefully prepared and the company believes it is accu­rate. 
Skurdy said the new ads rep­resent a long-term commit­ment on the part of the nation's largest fast food chain, "an ef­fort by McDonald's to inform onr customers about the nutri­tional value of our products." 
Jacobson, who heads the in­dependent, nutrition-oriented consumer group, said he would perfer it if "McDonald's would make as great an effort to im­prove its food as its image." 


Lunches starting at. ______ '2.95I,oo'ls Dinnen starting at. _______ '4.25 
net'\ 

lor open 7 days a weekOr 0 .,.eft~.-Mon.-Tllur&.: 11:30 •.•.-10 p.& Frl.-s.t.: 11:30 .....11 p.•. 30 10
I Ne~t to Randall .•s Inn 272-7376 SIIII.&IIIMidays 11 : ..... ,.._ 
1 South Bend, 130 D1xle Hwy.(Roseland) ~ 

Ifyou're in the marketfor an advertising and sales career 
Go -w-ith a leader! 
I,_~.__..r··----.::.--=.-:-::.·--"":~=:-:-:~;:::.-:.---=.:-:;.~ .. -----=-----::-:·:-"·.­
. .......__.......... 
( \ ~ (fhiraon (rrih1lne 5~?~~~
-

11
\ "-•·'-·'-itn ''4'11·'~­


Meet Chicago Tribune Recruitment Representatives at an informal reception Tuesday, March 3, 7-9 p.m., Upper Lounge, Notre Dame University Club. They will be there to meet prospective recruits and discuss advertising sales career opportunities with the Chicago Tribune. 
The Chicago Tribune, the dominant voice of the Midwest, is among the top ten newspapers in America. 
A Chicago Tribune salesperson's career is fast-paced, high-powered, and filled with challenges. The opportunities for personal and professional growth, rewards, and recognition within the company are unlimited. 
Take the first step in your advertising career. 
Come to the Chicago Tribune informal recruitment reception at your placement center. 
<fhira!)o [ribune 
Lombardo. 
The game is a team effort and is open to all students at Notre Dame. "A (student) comes in to Notre Dame and sees the table at Activities Night. He gets a couple of friends together and they have a team." said Lombardo. Many of these teams compete to­gether for several years. 
"I did something like (College Bowl) in high school," said McKinley, who was in­vited to participate by a friend. "I can get the science ques­tions, and the others can be pretty easy if you think about them." 
"It's ego. I like to win. It's fun, and it's all team effort." 


The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 7 

Soviets end nuclear moratorium 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union detonated its first nuclear bomb in 19 months Thursday and said it was forced to resume testing because the United States refused to go along with a Kremlin moratorium on weapons tests. 
The explosion under the steppe in remote Kazakhstan was announced by the Soviet news agency Tass. The rapid announcement was highly un­usual and appeared intended to underscore the Kremlin's con­tention that continued Ameri­can testing required a resump­tion of Soviet tests. 
"I want to stress once more that the termination of the moratorium was a forced mea­sure dictated by security inter­ests only," said Gely Batenin, 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
.------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~~1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I MasterCuts I
1 Reg. $8 tamily haircutters



r-------------------1I 
: ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I Ma~~l ~------------------~ 


MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·3770 

a Defense Ministry spokes­.•'' man. 
But at a special news confer­ence on the test he said, "The resumption of nuclear explos­ions by the Soviet Union does not mean that it has abandoned its struggle for the complete cessation of such tests. 
"A historic chance for ending nuclear tests once and for all has been missed,'' Batenin added. 
In Washington, the U.S. gov­. ! ernment had no immediate of­ficial comment on the Soviet test. 
During the 19-month freeze, Mikhail Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders have repeatedly called on the United States to halt testing and have accused Washington of being unwilling . . 
,•·Jl.: 

; ~ ! '+ (
to work toward arms control. 
·' 
·~ 

The United States has main­The Observer/Joann Whitfield tained that U.S. tests were A cover up needed to ensure the reliability 
of existing weapons and to Junior Jenny Dubrucq searches for the perfect sweater at LaFor­modernize the nation's nuclear tune. Wool knits of different styles and colors are being sold this arsenal. 
week. 


Trade 
continuedfrom page 1 
Notre Dame in 1940, is the 
highest-ranking government 
official ever to graduate from 
the University. 
America's farmers have 
been hard hit in recent years 
by falling land values and 
shrinking foreign markets. 
U.S. 
agricultural exports fell from $44 billion to $26 billion between 1981 and 1986 because of a rapidly-changing global economy. 

As a result, Lyng said, the 

U.S. 
government has been forced to make record pay­ments to farmers in the form of subsidies and price supports. "We made $26 billion in 1986 


in direct payments to farm­
ers," he said. "It's still not 
enough for many farmers." 
"We are trying to establish a 
farm policy that will not be so 
chaotic that constantly farm­
ers are going broke, and yet we 
know that is happening,'' he 
said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters. 
Recruiting Students for Academic Year 1987-88 To Live in DISMAS House 




k~A­
DISMAS of 
"" 
.Miclllaoa, IDe. 
Undergraduate, graduate, and law students Invited. Room and Board Is 
$225.00 per month. Beautiful home downtown South Bend. Experience a warm caring community for the purpose of helping former prisoners adjust. Applications avaDable from Kathy Royer at Center for Social Con­cerns, 239-7862. 
Application Deadline Feb 27 Completed Applications should be Returned to CSC 

~-----~ 

"ie~~_O_i_D__t_____________F-rida-y.~-brua-ry27_,1987--pa-ge8 
U.S. must end dealings with African communists 


On January 28, 1987 Acting President Oliver Tambo of the African National Congress <ANC) met with United States Secretary of State George Shultz. Many hailed the meeting as a historic shift in American policy, and it very well might have been. The historic meeting was not a positive step toward ending South Africa's troubles. In fact it should have never taken place. 
John Hallissy 

guest column 
In order to understand why the State Department erred in allowing the meeting one must take a look at the history of the ANC. The South African Native National Congress was founded by a group of African leaders and chiefs in 1912. Changing its name to the ANC in 1923 it remained a small group whose main goal was to help peacefully persuade the government to lift the dis­crimination against hlacks. 
In 1949 Communists Moses Kotane and Dan Tloome were elected to the ANC's National Executive Committee. 
Editor's note The following letters were submitted before the
r f 
l 
Office of Student Activities reinstated the publication of Scholastic on Thursday, February 26. 
'r No gain results from r defending censorship 
r 
r 
r Dear Editor: One bad bureaucratic decision often begets another. Mr. Antonakis' contro­versial monotype should never have been removed from the Juggler originally and now Student Activites compounds the problem by its suspen­sion, its censoring, of the Scholastic. Hair-splitting (and false -look in a dic­tionary) definitions of censorship are not helpful, though Mr. Cassidy must think so. (Pravda most likely does not 
Doonesbury 
Kotane had been trained in Africa. Along with this, Communists also began to infiltrate the lower strata of the organization. Another Communist, 
J .B. Marks, was elected President of the Transvaal ANC in 1951. 
The South African government began to view the ANC as a threat to its power and banned the ANC in, 1960, so the group went underground. The "Spear of the Nation" (abbreviated MK) was formed soon afterwards as the ANC's military branch. No longer was it to be a non-violent organization. The MK began exploding bombs in South Africa and in July 1963 the leaders of the MK were arrested by the government. Oliver Tambo, who was out of the country, was the only leader left to as­sume power. After the roundup the ANC was nearly wiped out, but it has burst upon the scene once again. In May 1983 a car bomb killed 19 and wounded 239 in Pretoria; in December 1985 a bomb killed five and wounded 48 in Amanzimtoti. 
Another form of ANC violence is "necklacing" in which blacks whom the militants feel are working with the gov­ernment toward a peaceful end to South Africa's troubl_es are captured, their hands tied or amputated, and a tire filled with gasoline is set aflame around their neck. The molten rubber runs down their bodies burning off their skin. Hundreds of blacks have been killed with the necklace by the ANC. Winnie Mandela, whose husband has been practically canonized by the American Left for his ANC terrorist activities, stated on April 13, 1986, "Together, hand in hand, with our boxes of matches and necklaces we shall liberate this country ... We have no guns -we have only stones, boxes of matches and petrol." The ANC representative in the United States is Tim Mgubnane. On Oc­tober 10, 1985 he said, "We want tp make the death of the collaborator so grotesque that people will never think of it." 

The influence of the Soviet Union on the ANC cannot be overlooked. The Chief of Staff of the MK is Joe Slovo who, by coincidence, is also the Chair­man of the South African Communist Party. ANC fighters are trained by communist bloc states and African states which are under left wing one­party regimes. On February 18, 1986, 
censor, either, given Mr. Cassidy's un­
derstanding, since its operations are 
"internal".) 
Unfortunately, the bad decisions 
already made will doubtless lead to 
more. The IranContra affair (as well 
as Watergate) is a textbook example 
of the bureaucratic process. What is 
most difficult, for government agencies 
as well as Student Activities, is to admit 
that a bad decision was made and then 
leave it be. Defending conduct that is 
indefensible,is at best , a sour spectacle 
and censorship, unlike some individ­
uals notions of art, is not judged solely 
by the eye of the beholder. 
William O'Rourke Department of English 
Censorship may bring 'protection' to students 
Dear Editor: 
Sometimes Mom knows best, doesn't she? We were relaxing Sunday after­noon, talking about the JPW dinner when Mom made the comment that people can justify anything if they think about it long enough. She said this be­cause she thought it was amusing that a vehemently anti-alcohol administra­tion would permit wine to be served at a dinner where not everyone was over 

21. (And there wasn't just one bottle per table, as there was last year. Often there were three or four bottles). This was okay, of course, because our par­ents were there and could be held re­sponsible. 
Too bad Mom and Dad left without getting a chance to see Monday's (Feb. 
23) Observer. I think they would have appreciated the fuss. Right smack on the front page was a reprint of a letter in which Mr. Cassidy, Director of Stu­dent Activities, justified his office's ac­tions against Juggler and Scholastic. Student Activities did not "censor" the art work, Mr. Cassidy says, because "censorship is an external influence and the Student Activities Office, as publisher, is not external." 
I have to admit this worried me for a moment, because I never knew cen­sorship had to be external. (Is "self-Winnie Mandela said, "I have waited for long years to personally send my military salute to the land of the Soviet Union and to thank it for its fraternal solidarity." Oliver Tambo himself wrote, "The relationship with the South African Communist Party is not an ac­cident of history -the SACP has been an integral part of the struggle of the African people ... ours is not merely a paper alliance ...it is a living organism that has grown out of struggle." 
Clearly the African National Congress is an organization that is in­flicting violence against civillians and is a definite ally of the Soviet Union. The Soviets are attempting to gain a toehold in South Africa in order to com­pletely subvert the nation should peace­ful attempts at reform fail and the na­tion fall into anarchy. Secretary Shultz should not permit the ANC to be given legitimacy by meeting with Mr. Tambo. He would not dream of meeting with Lebanese terrorists but he meets with Tambo. Something here is just not right. 
John P. Hallissy is chairman of the Notre Dame College Rupublicans. 

P.O.BoxQ 
censorship" thus a contradiction in terms?) I even looked up "censor" in my dictionary and it defined a censor as "an official with the power to exam­ine literature, mail, etc. and remove or prohibit anything considered obscene, objectionable, etc." After thinking about the situation long and hard, however, and re-reading Mr. Cassidy's letter it is obvious : Student Activities did not "censor" the art work, but rather "removed" it. The distinction between the two is so plain that I am ashamed I did not realize it before. 
As I thought to myself and told my friends of my disagreement with the removal of the art work, I felt it only right that I apologize publicly to the people at Student Activites. Having thought about the situation, I now realize I may rest easy in the knowl­edge that Mr. Cassidy and his assistant Ms. Lanan will protect me from some of the more objectionable things in life. I feel sure my parents would feel the way I do. 
Cindy Harrigan Pasquerilla East 
Garry Trudeau 


.-------------------------~ 
Campus quote 

"If no real steps are taken to 
make intercollegiate athletics 
academically respectable and 
honest, Notre Dame simply can't 
expect to be as competitive in the 
future as we've been in the past. 
We're playing by another set of 
rules." 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce Notre Dame Magazine, Winter 1986-87 
General Board
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager............................ Erlc Scheuennann Managing Editor ........................................ Chrls Bowler Photography Editor.................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor................................................... Trlpp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon VIewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................•............... Dennis Corrigan Production Manager.............................Melissa Wamk& .lf Notre Dame du Lac and Sslnt Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned edhorlals represent the opinion of the majority of. the Edltorlal Board. News Editor.......................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller............................................. Alex VonderHaar space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1888 
Page 2: 
Sophomore Literary Festival 




attle ofthe 
ands 
Bands compete for on and off-campus gigs the campus music scene 
ANN SEIFERT features writer 

wat's going on here? Where'd all these bands come from? 
Indeed, Notre Dame seems to have become a mecca for campus bands this year. "It seems every guy you know is In a band or knows someone In a band," said Bill Merkel, bassist for Word of Mouth. The fact that there are over a dozen bands playing this year Is a huge contrast to previous years when fewer than four bands dominated the scene. Among those bands last year was The Pat Giblin Band, a group which played a lot of gigs and subsequently built up a large following. 
"They Inspired me," said Paul Czarnecki, a sophomore, and the bassist for Blank Generation. "The Pat Giblin Band Influenced a lot of people." That band disbanded In 1986 due to senior members graduating. but the campus band Idea had taken root and spread. 
"Everybody got It In their heads that It was an easy and cool thing to do," said Greg Bower, guitarist and vocalist for Blind River. "The Pat Giblin Band started It off." 
What that band started was a veritable explosion of campus bands here at Notre Dame this year. The annual Nazz music competition, which will be held at Theodore's next Saturday, has more than 20 entries this year, although some groups formed speclflcally for this competition. Nevertheless, this Is still an unprecedented number of Interested musicians. 
The playtime for each band has actually been lessened because of the large number of entries. One explanation for the amount of new bands was offered by rhythm guitarist for Youth In Asia, Dave lmmonen. "It has to do with the Nazz competition and Theodore's, Everybody knows that If they get together, they'll have a place to play." 
This Is true to a degree, but as lmmonen went on to note, gigs are "tough to get because there are so many bands. Bars are booked and you really have to hustle." Almost every other band echoed this Idea. "There should be more places where student bands can play," said bassist Mark Stevens of Lazy Boy and the Swivel Rockers. 
"It just doesn't seem like there are many places to go," said Greg O'Connor, a sophomore keyboard player for The Bottom Line. Some of the places where one can flnd live bands are Chips on Wednesdays, The Alumnl-~nlor Club, Theodore's, Duke's Bistro and Lee's Bar and Grill as well as various special events, off-campus and class parties. 
As a result of the lack of playing space, and because they really want to play, many of these talented musicians perform for free. 

Theodore's: Trying to give bands a start 
CARLA BARROS 
features writer 

W
th the opening of Theodore's In Lafortune Student Center, the University has provided students with a long-needed entertainment facility. Yet a number of stu­dent groups, Including the Stu­dent Activities Board, the Black Cultural Arts Festival and various campus bands, have encountered problems with restrictions placed on events held at Theodore's. 
The focus of the dlssatls· faction Is the $20,000 sound system the University In­stalled last fall. It Is a closed system that Is hooked up exclusively to the D.J. booth. This means that when bands come to play at Theodore's, they must supply all of their own sound equipment. 
According to J.A. Lacy, the musical entertainment com­missioner for the SAB. ren­ting stage equipment takes a $500 to $600 chunk out of the entertainment budget each time the SAB sponsors a band at Theodore's. 
"I can sympathize with the Administration's unwilling­ness to risk damage to the expensive equipment," said Lacy, "but I'd much prefer an open system." 
Most campus band mem­bers agree with Lacy. Ren­ting sound and lighting equipment Is a costly 
see SOUND, page 7 

"We haven't been paid much yet, but that's not real Important to us," said Immonen of Youth In Asia. 
"Nobody wants to hire bands," says Chris Hyder, vocalist for Vatican Ill. "People don't realize the time we put Into it. We flgured It out once and we make about twenty-flve cents an hour." 
The popularity of past campus bands is not the only reason members are motivated to form bands. Some of this year's band members were former members of now defunct groups such as Marauder, Cold Drinks, and Pat Giblin. Often, the members were friends before they began playing together. "We all er\)oy music a 
see ND BANDS, page 4 


~~----------~--~--­

The Observer-February 27, 1987 Scene-Page 2 







Sophomore Literary Festival 
LAURA LINDNER 
features writer 
11Jth a goal of Increased student 
11VInvolvement, the twentieth annual Sophomore Literary Festival will be both highly diverse and intensely per­sonal. The melting pot of eight writers will "definitely appeal to the students," said Colleen Martin, the festrval's chair­
person. 

The Literary Festival is being held from March 1 through March 8, featur­ing readings by the authors at 8:00 each night. Following these presenta­tions in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune will be parties during which time the students can ask questions and pick up the authors' works. Also, the writers will be holding workshops at 
10:00 or 11 :00 each morning. 

Russell Banks 

l 
Russell Banks, the author of nine fiction books, will be reading March 1. Banks has lived and worked in Florida and in different areas of the Caribbean. He currently teaches in the Writing Program at Princeton University. His works have been widely anthologized and translated and he has earned numerous short story awards. His novel r "Continental Drift" was nominated for a r Pulitzer Prize, besides winning the John Dos Passos Award. "What he hated about sheep was the way most people regarded them: 'Most 
~ 
people think sheep are sweet and gentle. The truth is, sheep sleep twenty-four hours a day. As far as being alive goes, they're located only one step this side of lawn furniture. Three stomachs covered with a woolly mitten. Personally, if it wasn't for the mutton, I'd rather see a flock of cotton bales:" (from "Hamilton Stark" by Russell Banks) 

Celia Gilbert 
Celia Gilbert. an exceedingly accom­plished poet and editor, will read March 
2. Recognized for her poetry, her work has appeared in "Atlantic Monthly," "Poetry," and the "Paris Revies." Her poem, "The Silence," earned her the Emily Dickinson Award Pushcart Prize. She has published two volumes of poetry, "Queen of Darkness" and "Bon­fire" and a book of poems entitled "The Founders of Honey" is currently in progress. 
Her poetry is intensely personal and highly sensitive as it covers a broad range of subjects. Her style is clear and simple, intermingled with precise im­agery. 
"These are poems from deep places, allowing things to well up: memory, love, fear and a sense fo how our individual natures belong to the same great nature which keeps pushing life forward out of death. In "Lot's Wife," and other poems, Gilbert reinvents mythology, bringing it closer to the realities we recognize," said Alicia Ostriker. 


David Black 
David Black. a current story editor of television's "Hill Street Blues" and contributing editor of "Rolling Stone," will read March 3. Black has written numerous novels, short stories and nonfiction works, over 150 of which have appeared in countless national and international magazines. 
His study of the history and spread of the AIDS virus in 1986, entitled "The Plague Years," earned him the National Magazine Award and the National Asso­ciation of Science Writers' Award. His 
account of the seizure and trial of the murderer of violinist Helen Mintiks entitled "Murder at the Met." earned him the Edgar Nomination for Best Fact Crime Book. 
"Dandy fever sounds like it makes you want to wear a waistcoat, white gloves, top hat, and carry a cane. Bright's disease. Staggers. Proud flesh. What you call a disorder affects how the trouble is perceived. Scarlet fever is just a kind of strep, but the name makes it sound demonic." (From "The Plague Years" by David Black.) 

Irini Spanidou 
Irini Spanidou, daughter of an Army Major, born in Greece, schooled in Athens and came to the United States in 1964, will also read March 3. This author who struggled to master the English language by immersing herself in American literature has lived in New York City for the past 21 years. Her first novel, "God's Snake," was listed in the Book of the Month Club and appeared in the Quality Paperback alternate section. She is currently writing her second novel. 
"God's Snake," based on personal experience, traces nine years in the life of Anna, whose father is a Greek mili­tary officer and whose family moved from post to post throughout the 
1950s. Through a series of distinct incidents, Spanidou Illustrates Anna's struggle for an understanding of her­self, her sexuality and her future voca­tion, while living under the inflexible principles of an authoritarian father who demands that she think and act "like a man." 


Carolyn Forche 
Carolyn Forche, a poet. a journalist, linguist and human rights investigator who lived in El Salvador from 1978­1981, will read March 4. Forche taught at Columbia University and broadcasted on National Public Radio from Beirut. Lebanon, for three months in 1984. 
The collection of her work. "The Country Between Us," deals with the conditions in El Salvador and her own experiences there, and earned her the Lamont Poetry Selection Award in 1981 . It contains the brutal visions of human torture and suffering she witnessed during her years in El Salvador, elo­quently and insightfully described in poetry. Her political work describes the incredible revolutionary turmoil in terms of the causes and complexities of which she believes so many Americans are ignorant. El Salvador is her deepest preoccupation. 
"Forche is very believable -verbally as well as poetically -and her words become daggers prodding our con­sciousness to the fact that for the majority of poor, destitute El Sal­vadorans, death and dying -either from 
see SLF, page 3 


The Golden Child (R) Dolby 1:30, 3:30, 5:36. 7:35 9:30 ..The Mission (PG) 1:45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:30 
Platoon (R) Dolby 
1:00, 3:15. 5:30, 7:45, 10:00 (Nominated tor etght Oacars) 
SCOTTSDALE 
1153 Scottsdale Mall 21 9·291 4583 Slack Wodow (R) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Over the Top-Stallion (PG) Dolby 
1 9:45 

Endless Salad Bar: Hot & Cold Pasta Fruit, Ice Cream, Cheese Pizza
........~............................ 
: 2 Pizza's for 1 low Price :! ./2-1 (mix & match) : 
:small cheese-$8.75 lg. cheese-$11.65 : 
• items: $1.00 items· $1.50 : 
11 am-1 Opm,Mon-Thur 11 am-11 pm,Fri-Sat Noon-9pm, Sun. phone no. 258-1111 


The Observer-February 27, 1987 
SLF 
continued (rom page 2 
an Internal enemy's weapon or mal­nutrition -Is, Ironically, a dally fact of life," said Sharon Little In the May 29, 
1982, Issue of the "Fort Wayne News Sentinel." 

Bob Shacochis 

Bob Shacochls, a former peace corps volunteer and a writer whose work has appeared in many literary magazines and journals, will read March 6. His story collection, "Easy In the Islands," won the American Book Award for first fiction In 1985. He Is currently working on his first novel, "Swimming In the Volcano." 
He Is the recipient of a National Endowment for the Arts Literary Fellow­ship and a James Michener grant from the Iowa Writers Workshop, where he was a faculty member last year. 
"There's a jazz club In Barbados that you end up In after hours. You come In hot from the streets, fight your way to the bar for an Ice-cold Banks beer and take it easy taking It all in. Tonight there's a big deal going down. Lord Short Shoe wants the monkey. He says he's willing to pay." (From "Lord Short Shoe Wants the Monkey" by Bob Shacochis.) 

Walter Abish 

Walter Ablsh, a leading experimental writer who began publishing fiction In 1970, will read March 7. Ablsh was born in VIenna, raised In China, settled in Israel, came to New York City as a city planner and became an American citizen In 1960. He taught at Yale, Columbia University, the University of Buffalo and Is currently a visiting pro­fessor at Brown University. 
He won the PEM'aulkner Award In 198 I for "How German is it?" consid­ered his best work and one of the twenty best American post-war novels published In England. Abish has devised his own style in which the language of his stories itself explores the Ironies of human communication and behavior. Language is his preoc­cupation and often the subject of his fiction. 
"I have always thought that all the life networks that enable us to proceed wherever we are going, or prevent us from doing so, are predicated on a system called language. This awareness undoubtedly influenced my approach to writing," said Abish. 
"Both Alex and Allen are back again at basement airport, and beset by African boredom, as American airforce bombs Ashanti beaches. After bombing, Butoni believes both are butchered, but both, bribing an aviator, borrow Banti's airforce, arriving at Angola by after­noon. Begin big bash: aviators, bishop, author, British banker, architect, beverages, baklava, baked bananas." (From "Alphabetical Africa" by Walter Abish.) 
This preview of the Sophomore Literary Festival Is evidence of the smorgasbord of writers and their fasci­nating genre. All students are welcome to attend the 8:00 readings In the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune Student Center, as well as the parties and workshops throughout the week of March 1-8. 

Janette Turner Hospital 
Janette Turner Hospital, born in Melbourne, Australia, and will read March 5. She has taught English at 
Scene-Page 3 

both the high school and college levels. 
Her latest novel, "Borderline," Is the culmination of her fascination with raising the borders that define our lives. In this complex, disturbing, en­gaging and exploratory novel nothing Is taken for granted and countless bor­ders are crossed. The universal themes, metaphors and symbols of this work seem to point to her belief that salva-


The Scoop 
Movies 
The Student Activities Board presents"9 1/.Z Weeks" tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke star in this movie about one man's obsession with a woman and his falling In love, but only after he pushes her too far. Shows begin at 7, 9: 15, and 11 :.30 p.m. Ad­mission Is $1.50. 

Kim Basinger 

"Stranger Than Paradise" will be showing tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. This amusing indepen­dent feature fuses European moder­nism with American freedom as the story traces the road trip of a Hun­garian Immigrant and her friend from New York to Cleveland to Florida. Shows start at 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. Ad­mission is $1.50. 


/Music 
The Notre Dame music department Is sponsoring a graduate organ and voice recital by Brother Mark Stras­sburger. The performance will be held Saturday at 8 p.m. In Sacred Heart Church. For more information contact Eric Kuhner at 2.39-620 I. 
The Notre Dame music department welcomes the Orlando String Quartet Sunday night to the Annenberg Auditorium at 4 p.m. as part of the University Artists Series Concert. For more information call Eric Kuhner at 
2.39-6201. 
Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball 
The Notre Dame Chapel Choir & Chorale and the Student Activities Board present a MARDI GRAS BALL 
with Johnny Knorr and his 13 piece Orchestra 
Date: Friday, February 27  Dress: Formal or Masquerade  
Time: 7 pm to 1 0 pm  -Masks for everyone  
Where: Theodore's  -Helium baJloons  
Tickets: $3 Students, $5 Adults  -Beverages & Snacks  
-Door prizes  

Tickets go on sale 2116 -2/27 at the department of Music in Riley Hall and the Student Activities Board on 2nd floor in LaFortune. 
•AJso--2/23(Mon.)-2/26(Thurs.) there will be ballroom dancing lessons at Theodore's from 4 pm 5 pm. 
______________________________________________________________J 
Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball Mardi Gras Ball 
tlon lies In transcendary borders. 
"I have lived for extended periods In Australia, the United States, Canada, England and India and I am very con­scious of being at ease in many countries but belonging nowhere. All my writing reflects this. My characters are always caught between worlds or between cultures or between subcul­tures," said Hospital. 
A guide to movie theaters In the South Ben&Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S . .31 N. 277-1522 Now playing: Light of Day, From the 
Hlp, Hoosiers, and Hannah and Her Sisters. 100 Center Cinema I and II 
100 Center, Mishawaka 259-0414 Now playing: Star Trek IV and 
Crocodile Dundee. 
River Park Theatre 2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 
Scottsdale Theatre I 15.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 Now playing: Dead of Winter and 
Black Widow. Town and Country Theatre 
2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka 259-9090 Now playing: Golden Child, Dead of 
Winter, The Mission, and Platoon. 
University Park Cinema I, II and Ill .366 University Park Mall 277-0441 Now playing: Mannequin, Lady and 
the Tramp, Mosquito Coast, and Bedroom Window. call theaters for prices and show­times. 

Theater 


Woody Allen's "Play It Again Sam" will be presented tomlght and tomor­row night by the South Bend Civic Theatre Company. Performances begin at 8:.30 p.m. both nights. For more information call 2.34-7529. 


Mass 
Masses for this weekend at Sacred Heart Church are: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and I 0:.30 a.m. and 12: 15 p.m. 
·~-~
, 
I
I 



FREE 
SOUP®SALAD 
P . -. BUFFEr 
With your ch01ce of the folloWing entrees plus Baked Potato, French Fries, Vegetable or Rice Pilaf 
•Sole 
Almondine Onl •Prime Rib Onl 

•coo 
Bella YS •Chicken YS 


Vista ~Q Teriyaki ~ 
• Fried Catfish .....\~'" • Rib Steak Supre;e /­Available every evening, Mar. 2nd thru Apr. 5th 

+ 
NDbands 

try to kill 

boredom 
continued {rom page 1 
lot and we just formed the band," said Czarnecki of Blank Generation. Overall, the major motiva­tional force for nearly every band is to have fun with the 
music and to be able to per­form it. "I missed performing," said Greg Bower, guitarist and 
vocalist for Blind River, when speaking of reasons for their formation. "I was in a band last year and It was fun," added bass player Mike Mennes of Freudian Slip. Many others echoed Mennes and said they were in other bands which broke up, but they wanted to continue practicing and per­forming, so they got friends together and formed new bands. 
Here's a rundown of some of Notre Dame's top campus bands this year: 
Freudian Slip 
Freudian Slip, formed by junior Mike Mennes, plays new wave dance music. "Our syn­thesizer player, sophomore Keith Tadrowski, is a strongpoint," says Mennes. "A good synthesizer adds so much to any song." Some songs and groups covered by Freudian Slip are "Boy" by Book of Love, "Close To Me" by the Cure, and cuts by U2, Berlin and the Pretenders. 
The group concentrates on songs that mix synthesizers and guitars well. The five mem­bers of this band will be to­gether for three more semesters and are really just getting started after a prepara­tional first semester this year. 
Look for them at Chips on March 4, where they'll be opening for The Law, another popular band which played last year as well as this year. "We're trying to be original. Not all bands use drum machines and three synthesizers," Mennes said. 
Blind River 
Another band with a lot of charisma is Blind River, a band which concentrates on old rock 'n' roll and blues. The band's sets cover a wide range of ma­terial, including the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, CCR. Crosby, Stills and Nash, Traffic and R.E.M. 

r They have played at Lee's • 
t _ four times, at Ski's in Mis-
r hawaka, and at Theodore's for an ODN concert. They expect to play at Duke's in April and are trying to acquire a town as well as a student following. 
Blank Generation 
Another new band which is just beginning to play to larger audiences is Blank Generation, a young five-member band which will be in action Tues­day, March 3, at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse and also March 30 at the Charity Ball. The bandplays a wide variety of covers, all the way from melodic R.E.M. tunes to garage-band rock like the Replacements, punk Sex Pis­tols, and roots revival songs like "Keep Your Hands To Your­self" by the Georgia Satellites. 
In addition, Czarnecki and guitarist Rick Carton are working on some original 
see BANDS, page 8 


photography by Mike Moran Blind River rocks Theodore's at an Overseas Development Network benefit. 



---~---------------­
~------------~--~--~----~----------------~--------------~----~----------------­
Scene-Pages 4-5 


Brothers John and Dave lmmonen play guitar In Youth In Asia. 
-

----~ ~-----------­
f 
The Observer-February 27, 1987 Scene-Page 6 
I 
I Stallone goes 'Over The Top'... 
DON SEYMOUR 
features writer 

T 
he best that can be said about Sylvester Stallone's new movie Over the Top is that It is rousing entertainment for those who don't expect much. Most will walk away with a strong sense of having seen this all before. Yes, it Is a thinly-veiled Rocky. The sport this time is professional arm­wrestling. And instead of an Adrian whose love he has to win, Stallone has a son whom he hasn't seen in ten years. The problem is that the charac­ters have half the depth of those in the oriAinal Rocky. 
Stallone plays Lincoln Hawk, an independent trucker who arm wrestles on the side. He left his wife and son for reasons that are never made clear except that his rich father­in-law hates his guts. As the fllm opens, he is on his way to pick up his son Michael from military school at the request of his dying wife. The kid resists because his grandfather (the one who hates Hawk's guts) is the only father he's ever known. After a phone call to the mother, the two set out for L.A. in Dad's truck. 
The father and son relation­ship that develops has been done before, and it has been
-· 
done better. The fllmmakers barely scratch the surface. Mi­chael learns of his father's In­terest in arm-wrestling, and 


Mardi Gras 
Special to The Observer 
T 
onight at 7 p.m., the Big Band sound of the '40s will make its debut at Notre Dame. That's right, Mardi Gras is here. The Notre Dame Chapel Choir and Chorale, along with SAB, is proud to sponsor the 1987 Mardi Gras Ball at Theodore's. It promises to be an exciting and nostalgic evening with the Big Band sound of Johnny Knorr and his 1.3 piece or­chestra. Tickets are $3 for students, $5 for adults, and are available from the Depart­ment of Music in Crowley Hall and at the door. To add to the excitement, they will be award­ing door prizes such as dinner -for two at Tippecanoe's, The East Bank Emporium, Barclay's, The Olive Garden, and the Great Wall. Various gift certificates from local mer­chants, such as movie passes for two, free Senior Formal tuxedo rental, and ten free dancing lessons from Arthur 
-
Murray studios will also be of­
fered. 

So for an evening of masquerade and ballroom dan­cing to the 40's sound of 
... ­
Johnny Knorr's Orchestra, for those of you who are tired of the SYR scene and long for an evening of extravagance, wel­come to the Mardi Grasl 





and into the abyss 
Sylvester Stallone wrestles against Rick Zumwalt in the movie 'Over the Top'. 

F 

LAST DAY TO SIGN UP!!! 
Bottom of LaFortune 3-5 pm. 
Menahem Golan (The Delta Force), the head of Canon Pic­tures, and written by Stallone and Stirling Silliphant. The three know how to put together a successful product. They push all the right buttons. The 
film is funny, warm, suspense­ful, and emotional. It is also preachy. The lesson seems to be, "Life meets no one halfway. You have to do what's best for you." This refers not only to Hawk's efforts to win the World Arm-wrestling Championships 
in Las Vegas, but also to his struggle to gain custody of Mi­chael from his ruthless grandfather, Jason Cutler. Cut­ler is played by Robert Loggia, who comes off as a Mafia-type much like his character in Priz­zi's Honor. The lesson also refers to Michael, and his belief in himself, and in his father. 
On a very superficial level, Over the Top is an entertaining movie. I felt myself being pulled by the events and the emotions. But underneath, there is no depth. It is like a television movie. I'll take the original Rocky anyday. 

Hawk teaches the kid how to 
drive his rig, but we never get a long shot of the two of them just talking. What I've described 
is all that happens. 
Part of the problem is Mi­chael, who Is played by David Mendenhall (who played an­other Mike on General Hospital for 6 years). Mendenhall is not a very good actor. And he is given awful lines by the scriptwriters (Stallone and Stirl­ing Silliphant). One of the first things Michael says to Hawk is, "Do you think you can make up for ten years in three days?" 

My twelve-year-old brother does not talk like that. The rest is downhlll from there. Michael lectures his father on nutrition and other things. 
Another problem with Mi­chael is that he is given out­rageous things to do. For in­stance, when he runs away from his grandfather's house to be with Hawk, he takes the car (Remember, Hawk taught him how to drive earlier). Can you see a 12-year-old driving a pick-up on an L.A. freeway? Michael does just this. 
The film was directed by 

-
The Observer-February 27, 1987 Scene-Page 7 

You are getting 
very, very sleepy. • • 
Special to The Observer 
Freud said hypnosis Isn't real. but he would have a hard time convincing college students across the nation who have ex­perienced the zany entertain­ment of Tom DeLuca. 
"Most stage musicians want you to believe what they're doing Is real ... says hypnotist-magician Tom DeLuca. "I come out and say. 'This Is fake. so let's have a good time."' 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will have the opportu­nity to do just that next week when Tom DeLuca performs at Washington Hall. 
DeLuca's ability to hypnotize audience volunteers Into doing strange things like Michael Jack­son moonwalks or speaking in a language from another planet has earned him the title of Campus Entertainer of the Year for 1986 by the National Associ­ation for Campus Activities. fol­lowing In the footsteps of 1985 winner Huey Lewis and 1984 win­ner The Pollee. 
DeLuca's show Is far from the mundane; he pulls no rabbits out of hats. After warming up the crowd with a mix of card tricks and funny slides from his travels or a little ventriloquism. he gets down to the highlight of his 2 Ill hour act: picking twenty volun­teers from the crowd and hyp­notizing them. In past perfor­mances, students have gone fishing. forgotten their names. huddled together because they imagined cold, tried to peel off some of their clothes because they Imagined heat, and regressed to the age of five to sing theme songs from their fa­vorite shows. 
"What I do is get people to use their imaginations." explains DeLuca. "Hypnosis relaxes them and the unconscious mind kicks ln." He does avoid embarrassing his volunteers. 
A native of Clifton Park. New York. DeLuca graduated from the University of Miami. but was out of work In 1975 when he took up hypnotism for a job running a weight-loss and quit-smoking clinic In Decatur. Illinois. (He left his parents a note that read, 
I ' 
I. 
i 
Tom DeLuca 

"Have moved to Illinois to hyp­days, DeLuca says, "You can't 
notize people.") Within two hypnotize drunks. Theyjust can't 
months, DeLuca's clinic had the concentrate." 
highest success rate In the chain. As for Freud's skepticism A client who enjoyed his comic about hypnosis, DeLuca only performances offered DeLuca a says, "He would put people un­job performing and soon he was der and they would lie to him. I moonlighting at clubs around think hypnosis Is real, but Freud 
the Midwest. even performing for was a bad hypnotist." 
a while with Second City In Tom DeLuca will be perform­
Chicago. Ing Sunday, March 8, In Wash­
In 1979 he began appearing Ington Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets will before college crowds and be available this week at the Cel­decided he preferred the campus lar on Wednesday, Thursday and atmosphere. Of his early club Friday. 

•Aound._,~ m bMuttlul DtytDna "--l vlaii'IOdltn~ ~­
• .....,....,_~•on.OICJ.o,1oN't""-111cM111 Tlw~ofholetllhld•u.­
..cNin operMid n ..newty ~~.enc:. c~W~ requ~remen~~ n.y ....1oc81Mt 
~on,.bMdln ..,.t.t~~mlnlkll•luxurioul~ 
• ClplorW onHIIy ..ank1n1 kl a.My WDnd. ~ CWIIM, Deep S.. fWM!I, S.. ~ w.f.H· Wid. Petty llhlp, ~U..U, .nd "*"Y mrn 11ttn1c11on1 
efrMpooldedl~,...mulltMd~.Aall'letwM61'*we~ourpooldec:blh lftd\ '-IJif lf'ld more popAir c:or.urn. ~..IPI6I Md l'oaveiiQ'Md to""' oonliMtl .nd ,.,....,ptOfi'ICJIIonll...,. on ..ol cu pool deeD 
• 
,. .,...._..wt lllhferl pr.-to mlli&e )'our nv.e. worry '*· 

• 
......, ct.oounll hMte bMt'l.,..cl wllh o.,tona &e.lh mlftltlanea.lnduding nlghlclubl. .....,.., gift lhope IIICI mucfl morw 


elpec:illlfc.r...,...pnc.bllilludll'* 11~1ndoldlf. Almolllalourhl*la. lhlc.r.dbe 
.,..........lnoludld 
-
..... 


From $200.00 U-Drive-lt $149.00 Contact Campus Rep . 
at2834003 Spaces still available! 

SOUND 
continued {rom page 1 
venture and some bands simply cannot afford the expense. 
"Theodore's sets the terms," said Dave lmmonen. a member of the campus band, Youth In Asia. "It Is one of the few facilities around where campus bands have opportunity to play." He added. "Theodore's has been very receptive to letting groups play. They are trying to give every band a chance." 
Tom Utter Is In charge of booking bands at Theodore's. This semester he Is Including as many bands as possible on the club's schedule. 
"We're finding campus bands are just as popular as some of the professional bands," said Utter. 
Besides the complaints regarding the closed sound system, there have also been problems with schedul­Ing events at Theodore's. Last fall, Lacy contracted the undergraduate club for a "Campus Band Jam." Four days before the show, the student managers of Theodore's contacted Lacy and said that he could no longer hold the event at the club. They Informed Lacy that Theodore's was closed due to damages from the Wallets concert. 
The SAB expressed their Irritation with the manage­ment In a letter to The Ob­server. Lacy was forced to relocate the band exhibition to the South Dining Hall at the last minute. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival also ran Into prob­lems when Theodore's planned a Valentine's Dance for the same night as their talent show. Learning of the mix-up on the afternoon before the event was to go on, Esther Ivory, head of the BCAF, had to move the tal­ent show back one hour and send out flyers to Inform people of the change. 
Because of the restricted sound system, Ivory rented equipment from the educa­tional media department. "A few acts had to be excluded because there were so many logistical problems," said Ivory. "Theodore's Is a good place," she added. "We have just had hassles as far as 
preliminary scheduling and 
renting sound equipment." 
VInce Willis, general manager of Theodore's, backs the club's policy of a closed sound system "one hundred percent." "We were advised by our sound crew that this was the best way to do It," said Willis. 
Already Theodore's has experienced equipment thefts due to unauthorized people being In the sound booth, and Willis believes that "It Is In the best Interest of everyone" to restrict use of the sound system to au­thorized D.J.s only. 
Most student groups agree that Theodore's encourages musical Interests at Notre Dame. The managers have worked hard to accommo­date events sponsored by students and will continue to do so In the future. All things considered, "''m not sure the situation could be any better," concluded lm­monen of Youth In Asia. 

TELE-TRIVIA 
THE FLINSTONES 
Q. Who did the character voices of Fred Flintstone and Wilma Flinstone? 
A. Alan Reed and Jean VanderPyl 
Q. In What Age did the Flintstones live? 
A. The Stone Age 
Q. In what suburban area did the Flintstones live? 
A. In Bed Rock 
Q. What was the name of the lodge to which Fred and Barney were members? 
A. The Loyal Order of Water Buffaloes 
GRADUATE NURSES 
Your education will not end with graduation. As a graduate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week-long. fully-paid orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challerges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medi¢al center can provide. 
1 
' 

Graduates apply now for positions available in1987. Starting salary $23,681. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed acut~q_are ~yo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose gr<>wth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital Personnel Services Nursing Recruitment Section 201 West Center Street Rochester. MN 55902 Call Collect: (507) 286-7091 
p I  ....  l  
I  
I  
I I  The Observer-February 27, 1987  Scene-Page 8  
I  
I  





I ~ When freedom becomes free-for-all
~ 
~  wednesday's Viewpoint page guaranteed In the Bill of offers us food for thought: Rights. Somewhere In this  sometimes. Things are left out, presumably for lack of space,  simply the right to be negative In a public way about the truth  your job as an R.A. or as a stu­dent editor, if it means his  
an article titled "Protection country, the glossy-paged  though I sometimes wonder.  of the tradition. That merely  head is going to be on the  
from AIDS requires advertis­magazines are featuring the  My editors trust me to respect  scares people, and to scare  block because of you.  
lng," and a letter under the sale of condoms. The daily  the Catholic tradition I was or- people without cause is a form  This Is not because the  
headline "Publication suspen­papers carry sexually explicit  dained in, I think. They may  of bullying. But a university  Church is so narrow-minded.  
sion restricts student work." If want-ads In the Personal  not agree with everything I say,  doesn't have to be afraid to ask  This is because life is a lunch  
condom ads are OK. as the column. On the other hand,  but they are reasonably certain  the tough questions. That's  which you don't have to pay  
article says, and student Boys' Life doesn't carry beer or  I'm not out to undermine the  what scholarship is ail about:  for, one shared with a cast of  
publications should be free of cigarette commercials. The  religion.  you examine the questions to  thousands. No one wants to go  
outside supervisions, as the Christian Science Monitor  see if they're valid, and then  cheerfully hungry so that you  
letter also says, what would doesn't support itself, I  Have I ever gotten In trouble  you try to find the honest  can have ail the gravy.  
happen If The Observer presume, with the sale of pat- for my ideas? I catch hell all  answers.  
decided to fight for the right to ent medicines. Playboy and  the time from my readers.  Have you ever heard of a stu- The silly season is starting,  
Once, when I used a four letter  dent getting into official trouble  when we make mountains out  
Father Robert Griffin  word in The Observer, the mot­her of a student threatened to  on this campus for doubting the leaders, or attacking  of molehills. There's more depth to journalism at Notre  

 wash out my mouth with soap.  anyone from the Pope on  Dame than this collision of  
Letters to a Lonely God  I stopped doing it. Twice in the 70s, the bishop was alarmed  down? The student may provoke controversy, may be  wills over the publication of a picture. The freedom of speech  
at my liberalism. That also  even clobbered in print. So far  doesn't seem in danger of  
publish condom ads as a Penthouse don't create a mar- wised me up a bit. Two years  as I can see, any one of us has  being lost on this campus; I'd  
public service and as a way of ket for night-lite crucifixes that  ago, I stirred up a hornet's  unlimited freedom to be  be the first to notice if it were.  
increasing its revenues? Why, glow in the dark. The editor of  nest when I undertook, not too  wrong. If you're a student,  Every once in a while, some  
for that matter, shouldn't The The Observer doesn't promote  seriously, to defend smoking. I  you're not apt to be held offi­ adventurer, under the illusion  
Observer advertise abortion the casual sex encouraged by  found out that a number of  dally accountable unless you're  that he's free, wants to tlnd our  
clinics, or sell space in the Per-the sexual revolution, though I  Domers don't have a sense of  libelous. If you were a student  how far he can go. The result  
sonal column to readers presume he would fight to the  humor, and their attacks left  editor running abortion ads  is generally a tempest in a  
looking for sexual partners, as death for the freedom of the  me humiliated. Once, I was  though, you'd be held account- teapot. It's not surprising that  
other campus newspapers do? press.  chided by an officer under the  able, having betrayed the trust  it happens. The surprising  
Hey, am I starting to stick Who would get on his back?  Dome for a cheap attack on  the community has in you. If  thing is that it doesn't happen  
my nose into controversy Perhaps parents would. Per- some colleagues. I'm stili as- you were a priest screwing up  more often. What the campus  
where it doesn't belong? To haps your parents would. Per­ harned of myself for that.  your duties, you could be in  publications need is not more  
prevent that from being so, I haps everyone who thinks well  So what's my point? None of  trouble with the Church. The  license to be free, but more  
beg The Scholastic editors and of Notre Dame would. Perhaps  us is completely free to do or  system is full of checks and  exerci~e of responsibility on the  
the Student Affairs personnel to his conscience would bother  say as he wishes, not even Fa- balances we're subject to. We  part of writers, some of whom  
read no further. Each of you him. Perhaps he cares about  ther Theodore Hesburgh. As  don't go through here as  mistake the pages of a new- 
has signed the other's dance keeping his job.  member of the Catholic com- loners, after ail.  paper for a wall on which they  
card, and I have no wish to cut I've been writing for the  munlty of Notre Dame, we have  are free to scribble graffiti.  
ln. Finish the foxtrot without Catholic Press for nearly 30  to be respectful of the tradition  Everybody's answerable to  Editors seem tolerant of  
noticing me looking over your years; I've been doing an Ob- that was here before we came  somebody, on a formal or an  vituperation, if that's all they  
shoulders. I'm addressing server column every week since  and that we will be proud of  informal basis. Students mls­ can get. The powers that be  
other wallflowers like myself, 1970. I've written good stuff,  after we leave. It's the price we  behaving at a game may get  seem tolerant of editors whom  
some of whom seem ready to bad stuff, silly stuff, stuff I'm  pay for being here, allowing  the coaches on their backs or  the vigilantes would like to see  
self-destruct with indignation at proud of and stuff I'm embar­ some of the reflected glory ot  alumni writing letters to the  burned at the stake.  
the idea of a censured, cen­rassed to remember. I'm here  the place to rub off on us. As a  press. The R.A. who is indif­ 
sored student publication. They to tell you: freedom is not the  priest, I would be a menace if I  ferent to rule enforcement may  I wish The Scholastic well,  
will have to admit that the thought that comes to mind  kept sounding off like an lrre­ be in trouble with the rector.  and hope it back on course  
young and the restless get when I write. More Important  presslble freshman. When a  The rector who lets the resi­ very soon. I was happy to see  
away with a lot of rebellion in than being free is being re- brilliant Notre Dame theologian  dent assistants get away with  It make a comeback. To the  
their letters to the Editor and sponslble. If you're not respon­ decides to debate the abortion  murder will tlnd his students  editors who find they can't get  
their opinion columns. I re­slble, you may not even be  issue with a pro-choice adv- telling him to his face that his  away with printing everything,  
member a column last year published.  ocate, I'm sure he has to look  dorm Is a zoo. Trust me when I  welcome to the club. If they  
that okayed abortion. You have A faculty member asked me  to the left and to the right, to  say so; I've been there as a  love what they write, they will  
no Idea how ugly It sounded yesterday, "Do they censor  see what the traffic will allow.  rector.  learn to do their own editing.  
when It was later quoted In a your writing?" He didn't say  He has to make a thoughtful  Freedom, as the old song  That way, amateurs will have  
publication that was attacking who he meant by "they," but it  decision about the conse­ says, Is just another word for  no excuse for tampering with  
Saint Mary's. doesn't matter; I'm not cen­ quences of what he Is doing.  nothing else to lose. Nobody's  their masterpieces. That's the  
Freedom of the press is sored. I am, however, edited  Academic freedom is not  going to allow you freedom in  way it's done in the real world.  

-
BANDS 
continued /rom page 4 
songs to add In soon. Says Czarnecki, "We are set apart by our energy during our live per­formances." This band has a lot of potential and will likely be playing together for another tlve semesters, so keep your ears and eyes open for Blank Generation. 
Youth In Asia 

Along the same musical lines--although playing songs which are a little more obscure­-Is Youth In Asia, a group formed in the fall of 1986. The band features brothers Dave and John Immonen, who serves as lead guitarist, as well as vocalist Brian Peters, bassist Mary Jacoby and drummer Mike Gaffney. 
"We've really worked hard·. Sometimes we practiced six days a week. We play a really Interesting and different set of music," Immonen said. 
Besides seven or eight originals, Youth In Asia also plays covers by the Chicago underground band Naked Raygun, Neil Young, the Jam, Lou Reed, Echo and the Bun­nymen, Squirrelbait and the Replacements. When asked which bands have influenced them, Immonen said, "The Replacements, definitely, mostly because of their attitude (laid back)." Youth In Asia has played at Lee's, Theodore's and Stepan Center, where they opened for the Noise concert. At that performance, 200 people saw the band perform. 
Lazy Boy and 
the Swivel Rockers 
The first student band to play at Theodore's was Lazy Boy and the Swivel Rockers. "Jim (Mellulsh, guitarist,) came up with it. I guess it's about a chair," said bassist Mark Stevens about the group's 
name. 
Stevens termed the band's style "bubblegum punk" with a rough, unpolished garage band sound. The entire band has only six years of musical expe­rience among its four mem­bers. "Bob (Kaemmerien) learned drums last July and Bill (Boyle) learned to play sax this year," said Stevens. 
As a result "We do covers, but we don't do any exactly. Every song we do, we try to make it our own." Stevens dis­likes the fact that the crowds, although responsive, are not very open-minded. The band has played at Lee's, Senior Bar, and Theodore's which elicited "a pretty good response," said 
to Stevens. 
Vatican III 

One of the most popular bands on campus this year is Vatican III, a seven-member group started by Holy Cross senior Chris Hyder. All the band members like different kinds of music and as a result, the band's playlist Includes a wide variety of songs. They have 80 to 90 numbers, al­though they usually only play about 60. 
"It's too bad tlve of the guys are graduating," says vocalist Kara O'Neil, "because then we'll have to break up." This band has been playing ali year, in-eluding an Overseas Develop­ment Network concert at Theodore's, the Junior Class formal. Senior Bar, the ROTC ball, as well as various hall dances and parties. 
Cube and 
the Rhythm Cats 

Cube and the Rhythm Cats Is' a very unique band with a folk-reggae rhythm sound. The band's sound is composed of three acoustic guitars, a flute and four vocalists who take turns singing. 
Some bands which have motivated this campus group are Neil Young, Bob Dylan, the Rolling Stones, and acoustic groups of all kinds. "We like an acoustic sound, but we're not mellow. We play folk music with a rock 'n' roll attitude," said senior Tim Griffy. Griffy is also in yet another band, an electric band sometimes named Miles Long and the Shantytown Jamboree. They like to change their name around; March 5 they'll be ap­pearing with Youth In Alsa at Duke's as the Squash Puppies. 

Word of Mouth 
"I like to say it's progres­sive," said bassist, vocalist Bill Merkel about the style of Word of Mouth. The band, which was formed by Merkel, began playing in September, 1985. Only one original member remains this year due to graduation. The band has been influenced by the likes of U2 and Peter Gabriel as well as improvisational jazz. 
The members play songs by the Cure, the Talking Heads, the Pretenders and U2. Merkel said the band alms for accurate duplication because then people recogize the songs and have fun. "We don't play any slow songs as such, said Merkle!. "We just want to play so people can have fun. That's our main goal." 
The Bottom Line 

The Bottom Line is another band which began in the fall of 1986. Four sophomores and a freshman are In this serious band which Includes two music majors. Greg O'Connor has played keyboards for 14 years. All four sophomores were in bands last year, but as mem­bers of The Bottom Line, they "blended right away," said to O'Connor. 
The members expect to stay together for another tlve semesters, and due to the ap­preciative crowd response of their past shows, this will be a welcome fact to many. Besides Theodore's, the band was for­tunate enough to land two nights at Lee's. 
Four other bands which deserve mention are the dance band the Law, Loose Change and two heavy metal bands. Monarch, and Smoke From Nowhere. The Notre Dame band scene certainly looks promising. "It takes a lot of work to start up a band and make it good and keep it going. But if we could do it, anybody could," said Chris Hyder. 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 9 



1987 I 
-------------~--~-------~ 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 10 
15-10," Phelps said. "With their the field, three-for-three at the problem to any defense. Tony Reeder, a pleasant blowout against Fordham (96-free throw line and added 11 surprise for Dukiet, is the only 
Road 

67) last night it seems that rebounds. Michael "Pops" Sims adds other reserve to get consistent continued/rom page 16 they're in a positive groove." 15.4 points and Flory, whom playing time throughout the Junior forward Mike Flory For the season, Boone con­Dukiet has been experimenting season. The 6-6 junior forward 
But Notre Dame head coach led Marquette with 22 points tinues to lead the Warriors in with in a reserve role, chips in has bounced back from aca­Digger Phelps insists the War­against Fordham, while both scoring and rebounding 12.6 a contest. Senior center demic difficulties to average 
riors are better than their usually-steady senior David with 16.6 points and 9.1 Tom Copa hits for 7 points and 8.3 points and 5.2 rebounds per record would indicate. Boone was spectacular. The 6-5 rebounds a game. Phelps says 4.5 boards and freshman Tony game, and provide some more "They've played better than forward hit nine-for-nine from the forward presents quite a Smith adds 7.8 points per game. much-needed inside punch. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified adver11slng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. unti13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classllieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
SENIORS! Stop babbling, Kerr.
Tom DELUCALOST: Benrus quartz watch. Please call 
Rock the boat
Jeannine at £2646 if found. 
NOTICES PERSONALS Tom DELUCA Don't rock the boat, baby BOSTON Rock the boat Desperately need ride to Boston lor Don't tip the boat over Spring Break.Can leave anytime alter
TYPING AVAILABLE Tom DELUCA 287-4082 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Rock the boat Wed. 3'11.Call Andy £1026FOR RENT CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Tom DELUCA Don't rock the boat, baby BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Rock the booooaaaattttt. We're off to Marquette in search of lui· Tom DELUCA Familiar tune? Hear that one and many lillment
Wordprocessing-Typing 4BR AVAILABLE NEXT FALL SEMI· 272-8827 FURNISHED $440.00/'non. 
Beautiful old costume jewelry, reason­more at United Skates of America on 
ably priced. Middle row. first table at Tom DELUCA Tuesday, March 3rd from 8 • 10 p.m. Life's greatest thrill? 
SAFE,CONVENIENT LOCATION, CALL 
Thieves Market, 2309 E. Edison, SB, Sat. Relive your 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th Champagne, a woman and basketball on PREGNANT? Happy, loving, financially & Sun., 10·6. 10 per cant off with ND­Tom DELUCA grades by roller skating to your favorite TV SMC 10. 70's songs. Only $2.50 e $1.00 skate 
GEOFF, 288-7276. 
secure couple eager to adopt infant. Con­FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO lidential, legal. Expenses pd. Call Meg FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
rental. Be there! 
collect 513·271· 7526. 

Cari, Happy Birthday to my one and only FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT 
GOING TO NEW ORLEANS FOR MARY KIRSCH: CONGRATS ON California girt. You're the BEST!! LoveMARDI GRAS? LEGALITY!f CHIQUITATyping SCHOOL YEAR 255-3684<288-0955 THE YELLOW SUBMARINE ChrisHAVE ROOM FOR MORE RIDERS?
Free Pickup and Delivery We deliver til midnight daily PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 277-8940. WILL THERE ARE TWO PEOPLE IN OUR
277-7406 SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH Buy 2 sandwiches, try a snack sub free MARK PANKOWSKI
SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. LIVES-THOSE WHOM WE KEEPLUX. FURNISHED OCEAN FRONT til March 1. 
Congrats from your "roommates" in 131WAITING, AND THOSE WHO WE WAITCONDO SLEEPS 4 -POOL -$500 MAR 272-4453 FOR. WE'RE WAITING, TA. GET BET·
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 14-21 CONTACT MICHELLE £1259 MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
to the master: YOU DON'T PULL ON TEA AND COME HOME. WE LOVE Thank you St. Jude P.N. 
SUPERMAN'S CAPE YOU, THE QUINT.
2 BE02 NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? 
YOU DON'T SPIT INTO THE WIND
BATH-NEWFUANISHEDCPT,$48!¥ Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S AIR I=ARES TOO MUCH $$:NEED RIDE 
YOU DON'T PULL THE MASK OFF OF JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS
PRO-TYPE RENT OR SUMMER SUBLET CALL BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. TOf'ROM COLUMBUS OH.EASTER
Do you have friends or roommates over­
Q•Jaltty work, word proceeelng BILL 232-7416 just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OLD LONE RANGER BRK.SPLIT EXPENSES.CALL 4173· availability, reaaonabltt $. 277-5833. 
AND YOU DON'T MESS AROUND seas this semester? Have you written BEFORE 3'12 PLEASE!
WITH JIM (CARROLL) them?--il not stop by the Junior class1ST SOURCE BANK office and leave a message for the per­
Buy or lease a car. 238-2200. Financ­DOES your club need aT-shirt design? Ing available lor all US atatea. HAPPY 22nd B-DAY JACKIEsonal section of the Jr. class overseas
WANTED 

How about T-shirts or newsletter--we'll print everything.Get
other imprinted SCHWARTZ from your bro sportswear?? Reasonable prices. Call THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
there before Tuesdayf!I!H John at 1622. OVERSEAS II you want CIRCUS LUNCH
JOBS...Summer. BLANK GENERATION SMC Clubhouse 
to return, DEMAND it at a dining hall near FREE POLKA LESSONS
yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Austra/ia, Tuesday, March 3: 9-12 pm Nasty rock you. 
FROM AN EXPERT Call Mary today for
Asia. ALl fields. $900·2000 and roll
the birthday special at 31961 Must bringDEMAND DIRCUS LUNCHIII mo.Sightseeing.Free inlo.Write IJC, PO 
" Spring Break Travel to New York? •• own music or be able to sing Beer Barrel 
BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 FACTO
" Buy Now & Save " Polka. " $90 RT nx to Newark ..
TYPISTS · $500 weekly at home/ Write: FACTO
•• Leave 3'12, Return 3-21 .. 

DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH Roll out the barrelBREAK THE WINTER BLUES! P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 " Call X3586 NOW .. 
AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU II! We'll have a barrel of fun. PANAMA CITY $188 NEED TO BUY 
DAYTONA BEACH $229 FACTO
Roll out the barrel Mary Kirsch is now 211
FLORIDA FOR SPRING BREAK! MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & FACTO TIM x1150 SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 
Thank you St. Jude lor your help·

BEST DEAL AROUND! OR 239-4478. FACTO
Thank you St. Jude lor your help· FREDDY FROM FLANNER--SAW YOU Steve Megargee · welcome to the busi­Thank you St. Jude lor your help· ness department.
AT PRACTICE, LOVE THOSE TIGHT 
FACTO I need a ride to MILWAUKEE lor the 
YELLOW SHORTS! TALK TO YOU ATIENTION SPORTS AND MAGIC
SOON ...?

NOTRE DAME-MARQUETTE game//// FACTO
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS FANSIllPlease help me and call Ann-Marie at STARTING NOW! CALL 272-4135.


LOST/FOUND I 

ANNE NEWETI (Princess of Passion), THE SHOW BEGINS TONIGHT. 
Thanks for the great V-Day "gilt"! Hope HOUDINI ALBERTINI TAKES TO THE JUGGLER 
4015. FACTO 
RING FOR THE START OF HIS QUEST Wanta to publish your fiction, poems, 
found: gold Benrus quartz watch contact SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE to "see" you again real soon. Mike FOR THE TITLE. GO GET' EM LB. --ALLlost and found La Fortune PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK playa art works, and photos. Bring to 
Jell Blumb THE GANG 309 O'Shag. Deadline: Frl, Feb. 27
I STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE SAB APPLICATIONS 
LOST: Green suade jacket at Bridget's HEADED TO Jell Blumb on Thurs. 2119. Please, I need the keys FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTER Jell Blumb BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND Deadline elllendad ttl Frldeyl
ITS NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR 

Jell Blumb THE BROTHER OF MR. GOODWENCH KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL
desperately! Call 284·501 0 II lound all COUNTY. HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 Pick-up your application TODAY 2nd 
Happy Birthday THEOREM NO. 1: A Girl's I.Q. is in­
next week. Floor LaFortune
272-4135. ·The Observer versely proportional to her chest size. 
YES GIRLS, I'M BACKIll
lost: EEL SKIN WALLET; single-fold, DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MARDI CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT
.. 194 .. 

brownlit's the wallet that I am really con­GRAS PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 277­cerned about. What was In it can be 8940 IF YOU HAVE ROOM IN YOUR SPECIAL EVENTS
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH!tl replaced. Possibly lost in engineering Spaces still available from $200/U-Drive MR. MOM, liSTEN BIG GUY, "ST.
CAR. WILL SHARE EXPENSES, ETC. aud~orium. or south dining hall on Sat­$149. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT 
ELMO'S FIRE" DIDN'T END ANY BET· 
urday alter 6:00 p.m.. Please contact Call Campus Rep. at 283-4003. TER THAN "THE GIPPER". PLEASE DON'T SEND THE APPLICATION--I'D
John Eusterrnann at 283·1 06611 I NEED RIDES TOf'ROM MIDWAY AIR· IDEAS AND ISSUES 
The DRUIDS want YOU MISS YOU TOO MUCH. I REALIZE IT'S
PORT I lost a gold Cross on the second floor 1 need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm MOVIES
II you want to become a Druid, and SPRING BREAK DAYTONA! NOT YOUR FAVORITE PRINCE SONG, receive all the blessings and benefits that contact 283·4003 BUT ALWAYS REMEMBER--I WOULD being such entails, lind one of us and DIE 4 U ...THATS WHAT FRIENDS ARE of library on Sunday 2-22 Please call289-on Fri. Mar. 13 and I need a ride back 
8472 II you found It Thank You. to NO from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. CULTURAL ARTS
ask to join the Notre Dame Druid Society. FOR. I LOVE YOU, BUDDY DEMI
!could leave the airport anytime alter 6:00 Lost: 2 rings, SMC Class ring and Ruby am. CALL PAUL £2287. SERVICES
Stonehenge endures... Yo Buddy, if you picked up a Notre Dame (SWEETNESS) P.S. GOOD LUCK rtng and one Seiko watch, lady's two soccer sweatshirt at L.N.O. I want it TONIGHT, CHAMP! tone. Lost In the ACC field house on 2-22. back.lnscrip. St. Zahm spr. tourn. BUSINESS AUDITOR 
Extreme sentimental value. n found champs. 1986. No quest. asked, call Mike ANNE LINDNER please call Dena at 284·5209. REWARD £4335 rrn 159 Zahm PUBLICITY
AQUATIC APPRECIATION DAY THE LAW 
...................1.~-~c:JMING .. LOST IN THE 4TH FLOOR FRESHMAN Dear "Dad", NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH Ill 
rocks STUDIO OF THE ARCHITECTURE Lee's Alba Even though you are 149 days younger 
PETER SHEEP·DOG FLANIGAN
Sat. night than me, REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAG WITH UN­(which would make your birthday on June 
BUILDING ARMY GREEN BANANA 

3 OF US NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM Peter, who's your mother,
MAILED LETTERS. NAME IS SEWN 20...or is it 21 ??)
THE NORHTERN NEW JERSEY/NEW (Beaeaaaaaaaaah/)? You Big Mol REGGAE!! II
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE­Sophomore Parents weekend will be
UNDER COVER FLAP. PLEASE CALL 

YORK CITY AREA FOR SPRING ·The Flock
TITION GRANTED.

2098 WITH INFORMATION. great! Tues., March 3 Theodores 8 p.m. IPSO
BREAK. WE'LL SHARE EXPENSES. 
D.A.C. All I ask is that you dance with me more 
FACTO lreelpao Facto parlorrned with LOST--LOST!! GOLD ROLEX WATCH KINKS, CLASH, UB40 spona. by SAB PLEASE CALL MARILYN AT 2240. 
than "Mom" J.S. CASKO: Care to elaborate?
and HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING, pos· (I should have gotten her a date... ) sibly at the Miami Room In LaFortune, NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR Your loving "daughter" Paige You will see TOM DELUCA
Crazy Nick of Pangborn 
or in Flenner Hall. Reward for return-­BREAK! IF YOU HAVE ROOM FOR A Camp Aiello, Thursday March 5. (YUCK!!) 
So you think all of us are alike.. .let me 
Please call Eric i 078. Lost around 13 RIDER PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 2939. You will see TOM DELUCA
corrupt you
February. St. Jude: Thanks, big guy! 
The Dancing Machine of B.P.
HOWDY DOODY'S Allowishes Swivelchair, Have a great 
• 
You will see TOM DELUCA Found: Love letter written by Maggie to On US 33 One block north of the stateline LOOK OUT WORLD: 21st & Good Luck Fighting. When this is 
Patrick. Found on shuttle . Interesting is now accepting applicat· ions lor part­DEE LOGUE IS 21 over I'm calling an official MASH day!Luv 
You will see Tom DELUCA

•••warnlng"'Hazard Zone'"Danger•••
reading. II either of you want this letter, time waitresses, waiters and bartenders. TODAY!! Lynn Holy Cross Hog SYR Friday Night please call 2129. Ask for Kevin Barry. Apply In per-son between 2 p.m. and 6 HAVE A FABULOUS DAY! 
Colleen from SMC beware As you enter 
It's good to know !hat Maggie Is finally p.m. Monday through Saturday. CLARE TO DANCE! 
Greg Millin's lair In case you didn't know maturing. You will see TOM DELUCA on Sunday
it He's the lamed kissing bandit And I
GUYS, want to make some EXTRA 
March 8 at Wash. Hall at 8 p.m. nx $2hear he's got a lot more to spareMONEY?
LOST: White K-Swiss tennis shoes, at UMOC GREEK UMOC on aala In the cellar Wednesday March 
'"Warning"•From Weazei'"Danger'"
Be a referee lor SMC 5-on-5 Intramural UMOC and GREEK: IN THE SPIRIT OF 

FOR SALE

the ACC. Please call 4645. GREEK FOR UMOC 4. Sponaored by SAB 
Basketball GREEN & GOLD '87 WOMEN'S CLASS DAVE CAPP MAJORS
call 5290 lor more information 
To Halane
ATIN: Notre Dame memorabilia collec­
RING FOUND TUES. 1 PM IN 2ND FL. MAKE MOM PROUD. REMEMBER THE
GuilL Concealed in shadows Suddenly
O'SHAG WOMEN'S BATHROOM. CALL tors. YOU WONT BE SORRY. MARCH 3rd CAPPJ()PMA MEETING
carves your gut deep Rage! at yourself,
Original center jump circle from ACC SMC 5-on-5 Intramural Basketball com­
KATY £1319 TO IDENTIFY INITIALS. GREEK UMOC GREEK FEATURING
not me lor your human errs Raventress
main arena basketball floor. Blue back· ing soon! 
GREG STRZVZWESKIshrouds mixed emotions And the blood·

LOST: BLUE BLAZER. LOOKS THE EX· ground with gold NO In center. 219-287· Get your teams NOW! 
OF E.D.S. ACTL Y THE SAME AS EVERY OTHER 7pm 210 O'SHAG 
laced crescent moon betrays the truth6392. 
Lonely? Quicksand surrounds DraggingDOMER BLUE BLAZER EXCEPT IT IS you below Confident. Boast your wisdom 
comfortable ranch lor sale by owner-1 mi JUNIORS GET YOUR GREEN OUTMINE AND I'D APPRECIATE IT IF I 
RETURN AIRLINE TICKET FOR SALE of seniority though you know I've struck
north of NO library,3 bed rooms,2 baths FOR THE PRE-ST. PATRICK$ DAY
COULD GET IT BACK. HAS INITIALS PHIL/DELPHIA TO O'HARE SAT. MAR. KEV-BABY.
a vein of truth Too strong to cry or quit
-low taxes 68,900 Call 277-1907 CELEBRATION MARCH 7TH.
J.F.W. ON INNER POCKET AND A SET 21 DEPART 7:30PM $50.00 CALL KRIS­SORRY I MISSED YOUR B·DAY. I'LL
your charade When the play is over. yourOF KEYS IN THE OUTER POCKET. TIN AT 3390 BUY YOU A GREEN BREWSKI ON ST.
act cannot comfort Who was fooled? Who 
LOST AT SWIM TEAM FORMAL ON ST. HELP!// SPRING BREAK Matt and Strap PAT'S DAY LOVE VA BABE--BIG MAC 
won? There are no winners Only losers: 
LOUIS ST., SAT. FEB 14. IF YOU HAVE TRAVEL PLANS CHANGED, NEED TO SPRING BREAK IN FLORIDA Good Luck on Sunday! Kick some butt! ME, TOO, KEV BABY--YOU BIG HUNK
You and me.
IT AND WOULD LIKE TO RETURN IT SELL $238 TICKET Love, Chrissie
DAYTONA BEACH $229 OF MAN --SLUG CALL WAD AT 4639 OR DROP IT OFF SB TO LA, RETURNING SAN FRAN TO PANAMA CITY $188 .................................... 
AT ROLF'S. SB, DATES: 3'13-3-22 
LIMITED SPACE MOM & DAD Happy 25th Anniversary! It 
WILL TAKE BEST OFFER! Steph, 2 to 7? Can you really last til 7? John from Alumni-The "little blonde" that 
TIM x1150 wouldn'l have been the same without 
LOST: TAKEN FROM BRIDGET'S WED· CALL 4644 OR 4643 Comments Lavetta? you met by the pop machine in the ACC you-honestly! We love you, Frank,Missy 
NESDAY NIGHT· AN AQUA GREEN SKI alter the Depaul game would like to see 
& Andrea JACKET WITH GLASSES AND BAS· Hey, Jaybird is 19 Ill WHICH IS NICE you again. 
KETBALL TICKETS INSIDE. ALSO 

AND TAKEN WAS A GREY JACKET WITH A WANTED!!! Ride to PEORIA. Two guys KINDA COOL Karen Rene Gibson From South Bend to Gretchen Have an awesome 21 stl Alter MAROON AND NAVY STRIPE. 1.0., TICKETS desperate lor ride to P-Townll Can leave GOUNGALLA·GOUNGALLA South Padre From Tippecanoe to the all camper, you deserve the best. Kath KEYS, AND BASKETBALL TICKETS anytime alter 12 on Friday. $ Will PAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY BUDDY Tumbleweed Sometimes all it takes is a 
WERE INSIDE THIS COAT. NAMES expenses$ Call Chris at X2075. little concern in the right place. Thanks, 
WERE ON COLLARS OF THE COATS. HI. I NEED 6 GA TIX FOR THE BROOK· Pat FRED NELSON PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 283-1225 TO LYN B-BALL GAME. /F YOU HAVE ANY Tom DELUCA LOVE V LOVES V'S WOMAN I'm not a klepto-the sign was on your car. RETURN. PLEASE CALL 283-1710:TIM You're babbling again, Kerr. Love, the SALT of your earth. 

--~------------------------------------·---------------------.-----------------------------~-----------~----------~--. 
The Observer Friday, February 27, 1987 -page 11 
J 


..~owellg fptr. aQQ occagiong.'~ 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232~3354 



SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDOS 
Look around before you rent Classic Blk Starting at $35.00 BEST SELECTION IN TOWN With best selection of cummerbunds and ties at no extra cost 
Pierre Cardin, Bill Blass, Dynasty, Miami Vice, Robert Wagner & more Miami Vice, Robert Wagner and more 
CENTURY FORMAL WEAR 1622 Mishawaka Ave 287-5938 
------'Who's Evan Piccone?" 
~~~~ City Wide Liouors 
9•m·t' ~ 3125 North Crape Road, Mishawla 272-2274 
Liquor 

Beer {cases)

1.75 I Rootbeer Schnapps $6.99 1.751 Leroux Peach Basket Schnapps 
1.75 I $10.99 Glenmora Vodka 1.75 I $7.99 Kessler Vodka 
1.751 $9.99 Chi Chi's Premade Margaritas 
1 liter 
$8.99 Ancient Age Bourbon and Cola $.99 

Bud Quarts $10.99 
Bud and Bud Light (24 cans) $7.99 Miller (24 cans) $7.99 
Super Special: RED BULL 
(40 oz. Malt Liquor) $9.99 
Wine 

750 ml Mateus Rose $2.99 
4 pack Bartles & Jaymes $2.99 
Pnces good thru Feb. 29, 1987 
AI takes a TO to interview himself 
This is the time of year, I think, that all coaches should have their own teams scouted­-hire a private scouting service to see how your opponents see you--to get ready for the post­season conference tourney and also the big dance at the NCAA. 
So, while you're finding out what your strengths and weak­nesses are, I think I'll take my own advice, and have some­body take a look at AI McGuire and find our some of the things that make him tick. A psycho­logical 20 questions, sort of, while you're all beefing your­self up for the checkered flag lap. 
Q. What's your biggest strength as a TV announcer? And you;biggest weakness? 
M. My strengths, I believe, are working with Dick Enberg, and also my style at the end of a tight game, because then I'm coaching. As a matter of fact, all through the broadcast, I'm coaching. I don't second guess. I give facts before they happen, so I make as many mistakes as the coaches of the teams who are playing. 
My weakness is a lack of vo­cabulary, and not knowing the rules of the game. And, now and then, in a game I fade out, for some reason or another, if the game gets boring. 
Q. Who's better behind the 


AI 
Hoopla 
microphone, you or Billy Pack­er? And why? 
M. I think that Billy is a bet­ter analyst, that he knows more about the game than I do, and that he has a greater love for the game than I do. The only difference is: He knows the business, I feel the business. 
I think a lot of times, that Bily is Ike a Great Clinician whereas I'm more for the "barracks-ing", the cult type, sometimes almost disrespectul to the seriousness of the situa­tion. 
Q. Should TV announcers be awarded technical fouls? 
M. If announcers were awarded technical fouls, I'd be out of the game in the first seven minutes, just as if I was a coach and got three fouls. 
But I do think a coach should, in some way, be.able to put his two cents worth into things. I do think sometimes a referee subconsciously favors some­one. One of my hangups is that I always root for somebody who's losing. I want OT, con­tinuous OT. I'm like the hand­icappers at a horse race, where 
The Observer Is accepting applications for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
Controller Advertising Manager Development Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin 
Becker by 5 p.m., Friday, February 27 (in The Observer office 
on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center.) 

CORAL NISSAN, INC. 

51176 U.S. 33 North 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 277-5800 
NOTRE DAMEtST. MARY'S STUDENT VIP DISCOUNT CARD entitles student to a 15°/o discount on PARTS•SERVICE•RENTAL CAR 
Rental car discount applies only while your car is in our shop for service work we service all makes and models 
lplease brin9 coupon) 

BIRTHDAY KELI! 
love, Mom, Dad, Scott & Mark 
they put certian weights on the horses--l'd always try to hand­icap a game so it's a buzzer beater at the end. And I also think that coahes should be able to have some feedback into the TV business, if they realy think they're not getting equal time, or if the camera is too much on John's towel, or Digger's carnation. 
Q. What's the biggest differ­ence between coaching and an­nouncing? 
M. The biggest difference is that there's no ulcers. And you're not hung in effigy. But then you don't get the other side of it either. The tremendous high of victory, the white snow and the eagle. The heights and depths just aren't as great as the roller coaster ride from the coaches' bench. 
Q. Why do you think AI McGuire is successful? 
M. I think first of all, because I like myself. It's important to like who you are. And I love my ballplayers at a distance, an arm's length love affair. 
Also, I was non-negotiable, and I think I came along at the right time--in the late 1960's-­for my style of "burn baby burn," when people protested and had grenades in their hands. 
And I think the last three or four years of my coaching career, my success was a chain reaction from what I did the first 10 years. This kid got me that kid, and my stature built with the officials. The oldest coach always gets the breaks. 
Finally, I think my success had a lot to do with my seven years at Belmon Abbey Col­lege, before I came to Mar­quette. That's where I learned coaching--to pick up the towels, wrap the ankles, and drive the bus. And that's when I learned that the least important thing in coaching is the X's and O's. THe most important thing is the family concept: there's no I in Team. 
Q. If they ever made a movie of your life, who would you want to play you? 
M. I think that guy, Professor Irwin Corey, would be the right guy. He'd get the part, but I'd prefer it to be someone 20 years or younger. Really, though, I don't think I could have a movie done, because it would have to be a true movie, and I'd end up being divorced. 
My movie is riding the motor­bike, going for my toy soldiers, and slipping into Dick Enberg's limo, when everybody thinks it's my limo . 
Q. If you were a player, would you have wanted to play for AI McGuire? 
I'd have a hard job playing for myself, because usually you don't like anyone who's like yourself. The people who are like you are the ones you have the most problems with. But the only reason I'd enjoy playing for me is because I was a defensive player, I couldn't shoot, and for 13 years at Mar­quette I coached defense. 
Why? Because defense is like water--it finds its own level. It's there every night. Offense is like the stock market--nobody knows where it is, it's always all over the place. 

-----~~---'---· -----· '----------~----------------,----------­

The Observer 


Tennis team looks for upsets 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
gave  people  a  run  for  their  
money."  
The  permanent  doubles  


This weekend the Notre Dame women's tennis team travels to Tyler, Tex., to com­pete in the University of Texas­Tyler Invitational. Joining the Irish will be teams from Ohio State, Rice, Texas Christian, Oklahoma, and Mississippi. 
The tournament is flighted, meaning that each player com­petes in a division bracket with players holding the same ranking. 
Junior co-captain Michelle Dasso resumes her number one singles position, followed by freshman Stephanie Tolstedt, freshman Alice Lohrer, senior co-captain Tammy Schmidt, sophomore Natalie Illig and freshman Resa Kelly. 
Head Coach Michele Gelfman has one less thing to worry about, knowing that she'll be able to put her full starting lineup on the courts. Aside from expecting a sound overall performance from her players, Gelfman sees the tournament as an opportunity to raise some eyebrows. 
"I'm expecting us to turn some upsets this weekend," said Gelfman. "We'd like to come back knowing that we 
Spring Break FLORIDA 
Studios, I bdr. & 2 bdr. apts. Close to beiiCh in Delray Beach.FLA BW Ft Lauderdale & W. Palm Beach 


pairings also see their first ac­tion together. Dasso and Loh­rer will start at the number one spot, Tolstedt and Schmidt at number two, and Illig and Kelly at number three. Jackie Uhll and Julie Sullivan round out the last doubles team. 
The tournament should give the Irish plenty of match play, which according to Assistant Coach Steve Simone, lets the players show what they've learned since the fall season. 





Women 
continuedfrom page 16 

for the first time in 10 years, Mary (Murphy) will be on the other team," DiStanislao said. Murphy served for six years under DiStanislao at Notre Dame, and was a four-year starter on a DiStanislao­coached Northwestern team in the late 1970's. 
"But it's still just a game for both of us. Her knowledge of our players and my coaching will give her some advantage, but on the other hand, I've got­ten used to her philosophy as well. It should be fun." 
But the fun Murphy and DiS­tanislao used to have watching players like Trena Keys fill the bucket at the ACC is gone, and now the two find themselves recruiting the same players, as Wisconsin has traditionally been a strong recruiting state for DiStanislao. 
"Our relationship has turned into a very competitive and professional one," Murphy said. "Now that we're recruit­ing the same players, the sit­uation has turned into one where we are battling against one another, although we cer­tainly maintain a friendship. 
''At the beginning of the year I'd find myself giving her a call now and then to ask which people were supposed to be where on certain drills and things. This was a program in need of some organization, and it's really starting to come around." 
Because of Murphy's late ap­pointment as coach of the Badgers, she did not have a freshman recruiting class to work with, and has six walk-ons in uniform. Last year, the Badgers finished 4-24. 
"She's done a real good job 
getting that entire program or­
ganized," DiStanislao said. 
"With all of the problems that 
Friday, February 27, 1987-page 12 
program was having, it's ironic that we have identical 9-15 records. They're thrilled with theirs, while we're very disap­pointed." 
Wisconsin, a much smaller team than the Irish, is paced by 5-11 forward Lisa Bonnell, who is fifth in the Big 10 with an average of 17.0 points per game. Verdell Hale is second on the team, scoring at a 10.8 clip. 
"We've been playing much better defense of late,'' Murphy said. "We're going to have to keep that up and rebound ex­tremely well to beat a much bigger Notre Dame team. I ex­pect Sandy Botham will really be fired up since this is home for her." 
Tomorrow against Mar­quette, the Irish will be looking at a team which wants revenge. 
Homecomings and reunions sure can mean a lot of work for a basketball team. 
The Observer Is accepting application& for the following positions for the 1987-88 publishing year: 
News Editors (2) Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photography Editor Production Manager Advertising Design Manager Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Projects Manager 
A resume and one-page personal statement are due to Kevin Becker by 5 p.m., Friday, February 27 (in The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center). 

I I 





The heat is on. 
This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Sign up for ROTCs six-week Basic Camp now. See your Professor of Military Science for details. But hurry. The time is short. 
fNDA\TEAPT's."l ~~~J~E~h~~si~a~~~~~i~~~~~m~A~~~-~~-E~~~h~e~h~e~,a~t~is~o~n~-~~~~l Early Bird Special ~ 
ARMYRESERVEC?,~;!;!~,TRAININccoRrs 
~  Now renting for Fall  ~  
~ t  2  Bedrooms furnished  completely  ~ §  
§  Sign up before break and  ~  
~  receive 'tt 10% discount  
§  Call 234-6647  
~  Protected  by  Pinkerton  Security  ~  

i~~o.Q'><Q>~.!.i.!~.!.q,.q,._q.~o.Q'>o.Q'>o.Q'>o.Q'>§ 
Sophomores and Freshmen 

HMENTSSERVED 
PHILOSOPHY: Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, March 1st 
8:08-9:00 P• Roo•210 O'Shag 


v 
For further Information contact : Profs. Tom Morris or David O'Connor 
Room 337 O"Shag, 7534 
ca~~g~~~go 
Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network Presents 

special guests 
ia Satellites aturday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone 
VISAMC 
(2101.:;1~!<1-/ 

~---~~------·~~-----~ 
Friday, February 27, 1987-page 13
The Observer 



Sports Briefs 
The ND men's tennis team, after winning career match number 500 for Head Coach Tom Fallon last weekend, travels to Ohio University this weekend looking to improve its 6-3 record. Details will appear in Tuesday's issue. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts tickets .are available at Gate ~o of the ACC. Tickets for the openmg round matches tomght and Sunday, as well as the semifinals and finals, are all $2 per session. A special pass for all bouts is available for $3. -The Observer 
The ND rugby club will have a mandatory meeting Monday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all interested in playing this semester. No experience required. For more information contact Quen­tin (287-5903) or Oakie (1170). -The Observer 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 



Within wnlklng dlstnnce to the Unlvers1ly of Notre Dnme 
1404 North Ivy Rand South Bend. lndl11n11 46637 
"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reservntlons cnll (219) 277-9562 

Notre Dame unication and Theatre 
announces 
Auditions 
for 
Macbeth 

by William Shakespeare 
March 2 aod 3 Pick up information and audition forms at 320 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
The ND rowing club will have a practice today for all members at 5:15 p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. Also, the women's crew team will hold a meeting for both varsity and novice Sunday at 6:30 p.m. at room 123 Niewland. -The Observer 
The OC hockey team will have practice Sunday at 11 p.m. at the ACC. -The Observer 
The OC lacrosse team will have practice tomorrow at 3 p.m. at Stepan Field. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA Tuesday, March 3, at 6 p.m. at tlie NVA office. Participants should wear shorts and a t-shirt. The free test will be given on a first-come, first serve basis. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost last night in the semi-finals at the districts, 73-59, to IUPUI. 
-The Observer 
Boilermakers beat Hoosiers 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­Purdue's Troy Lewis beat No. 3 Indiana from the inside and outside Thursday night, hitting two 3-point goals and 12 of 14 free throws in a 75-64 victory that pulled the sixth-ranked Boilermakers within one-half game of the Big Ten-leading Hoosiers. 
"We're still climbing the lad­der, playing for the (conference) championship," Purdue Coach Gene Keady said 
after  his  team  snapped  the  
Hoosiers'  nine-game win ning  
streak.  



Swimmers hope for personal bests· 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
A large, talented field con­tinues competition this weekend at the sixth annual Women's Midwest Invitational Swimming and Diving Cham­pionships, which began Thursday and continues through Saturday. Preliminary races begin in the morning and finals occur in the evening. 
The 12-team field includes defending champion Illinois State, Northern Illinois, Oak­land, Eastern Kentucky, St. Louis, Western Illinois, Eas­tern Illinois, Northern Mic­higan, Northern Iowa, North­east Missouri State, and the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
"With such a large field, the points will go to the teams with power," said Head Coach Tim Welsh, who cites his team's 
4 3/4 
love ya, 404 and beyond... 

strengths as balance and depth as opposed to power. 
"What we are interested in 
are personal bests, to swim 
faster than ever before," con­
tinued Welsh. "If we do that, 
the scoreboard will take care 
of itself." 
Thursday's early action indi­
cated that all the swimmers 
are performing at their peaks. 
Three meet records and two 
pool records were set during 
the preliminaries. 
"Every event is going signif­
icantly faster than last year," 
said Welsh. "So far it's been a 
fast meet all the way through 
the field. The fastest are swim­
ming faster." 
The Midwest Independent is 
the first collegiate champion­
ship meet to be held in Rolf's 
Aquatic Center. 
"We feel we have one of the 
finest pools in the country," 
said Welsh. "We love to invite people here to show it off." 
This will be an important meet for the young Irish team, which hopes to show how well it matches up to some good teams in a large field. 
"We have 20 swimmers en­tered. We are really a balanced team," said Welsh. "Every race ought to be really good. We're very excited about this meet." 
The action picks up again today, with final events begin­ning at 7:00 this evening. Sat­urday's preliminaries begin at 11 a.m., with finals again at 7 p.m. 


Boxers 
continued/rom page 16 
Some of the boxers with pre­vious experience that will be participating will be returning champions Ted "The Truth" Gradel, John "Judgement Day" Mundo, John "Captain Bad" Uhll, and Pernell "Big Train" Taylor. 
Along with the many tourna­ment champions produced every year, the Bouts have produced several highly­skilled amateur boxers. Last year's president, Ed Kelly, be­came the national champion at 138 lbs. 
As in past years, there w:n 
be bloody noses, black eyes, 
and bruised knuckles, but in­
juries will be minimal. 
The Bengal Bouts start today and continue through next week with rounds on Sunday, Wednesday, and Friday. Tick­ets are on sale at the door of Stepan Center. 




NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Presents a Readers Theatre Production of 
THE 
AFTH 
SON 
by Nicholas A. Patricca 
Directed by Frederic Syburg 
Wednesday, February 25, 8:10pm Thursday, February 26, 8:10 pm Friday, February 27, 8:10 pm Saturday, February 28, 8:10 pm Sunday, March 1, .3:10 pm 
WASHINGTON HALL $J General Admission $2 Students. Senior Citizens available Wednesday. Thursday, Sunday Washington Hall Ticket Ofnce 
I 2 noon ·6 pm weekdays Master CarcWisa orders: 2J9·5957 
Spring Break Special 


1M-~ 
sun tmr.rg scX:n Booth 
JMS PLAZA $2.50 each visit 4609 GRAPE RD. 6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, IN 
Bed Combo $5.00 each visit 3 Bed I 3 Booth 6 visits for $27.00 $19.95 
277-7026 



Friday, February 27, 1987-page 14
The Observer 

Warth hangs back to be a winner 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

What is the perfect race? For Irish distance runner David Warth, three things are needed for the perfect race. 
"Before going into the race, I know it is going to be fast," says Warth. "I know (the other runners) are going to lead, and that the competition will be great." 
These three conditions were in effect last weekend at the In­diana Intercollegiates when Warth and fellow Irish runner Nick Sparks faced two of In­diana's top distance runners in the 1000-yard run, Keith Hiller and Tim White. The two Hoosiers jumped to a quick lead, but Warth and Sparks stayed with them. 
"I sat on them for as long as I could," says Warth. "It made for the greatest situation at the end." 
At the finish line, White took first, but Warth and Sparks finished two-three with times of 
2:10.15 and 2:10.53, both good enough to qualify for the IC4A's. 
For the sophomore Warth, it was the first time in the 1987 season that he had run the 1000­yard run, yet he qualified for the IC4A's. This situation characterizes the career of the Rochester, N.Y. native, a career in which Warth has run some of the best times on the team, but never has run the race which most observers feel he has the most potential. 
In the North Central College 
outdoor meet last year, Warth 
recorded a time of 1:50.3 in the 
880-yard run, a drop of seven 
seconds from his previous high 
school best. Nobody had 
predicted it, but it showed 
Warth's competitive nature. 

"He is a real good competi­tor," says Head Coach Joe Piane. "He'll get in a good race, and he'll run quality times. Right now he's just run­ning very well." 
Warth has always run the 880, both in the open and in the two-mile relay. At McQuaid Jesuit, his relay placed sixth in the state final while recording one of the top-20 times in the 

Knight 
continuedfrom page 16 

time you turn around, they're on probation. Look at Notre Dame. The Catholics have found a way to win without cheating." 
The American Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs are scheduled for next weekend, March 6 and 7. Al­though the league is small and not a major power in collegiate hockey, it has been a source of excitement for its member in­stitutions such as Notre Dame which try to reconcile high costs with academics and good hockey. Before the playoffs begin, it would be a good idea to remove the banners above the ice rink which feature the logos of CCHA schools, a league the Irish played throught the 1982-83 season. The Irish haven't played any of those schools since then, so it's ridiculous to have them flying above the ice. Put up ACHA banners instead. 
nation. He also finished fifth in fourth behind three Wol­the 1000. verines)." 
Piane first noted Warth The battle between Warth's through his brother Tom, who competitive nature and his ran cross country and track for physical potential may begin to Piane in 1982-86. Piane chose to take a new twist this weekend keep Warth in the 880 his fresh­when the Irish host Marquette man year at Notre Dame, but and DePaul in a triangular this season changes are in meet. Piane's plan. "He asked me if he could run 
the mile this weekend," says 
"He doesn't have the great Piane, "and that put to rest leg speed for the 800," says things there. I signed him up Piane. "He'll get (a time of) immediately.'' 1:48, but he won't make it to 
1:46. Warth is just one of many "He doesn't want to hear it, runners who will be making but he has a 1500-meter body." their first appearances in dif­Piane's right--Warth doesn't ferent events this Saturday at want to hear it. the ACC. 
"Everyone says I should be Dan Garrett will move from a miler," says Warth. "There's the two mile to the 1000, Robert too much pace in that race, and Nobles may get his first shot at I'm not a pacer. I can't feel a the 880, and Mike O'Connor will pace like others can--Mike run the two mile in an attempt O'Connor, for example, can to pull Rick Mulvey and Ron just start out at a certain speed Markezich to a qualifying time and keep it. in that event for the IC4A's. 
"In the half, you run with the other guys and kick at the end. The meet in the North Dome The trouble is if you lead, you of the ACC begins at 1 p.m., have to set the pace, and I get and the final event is scheduled killed when that happens, like to start at 2:55p.m. Admission in the Michigan meet (placing is free. 







'JI['4(Jt~4tll~------------------------------------------------------F•ri.da•y•'•Fe•b•ru•a•ry
..27•,•19.87•-•p•a•ge...15 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

Theodore's 8 pm. 

ve5, rtttJ.fr v'(l.ffWI< 111~

liS er?tcr&;: me tiiTIRc M&~­
1li£ ~RY ON fl£%1/ffv Prltk!C 
OfF6'N5/Vt WJ\'MIIN/7 tMIW(­

t~eF.5HtP Of 71fc "tllfl!&S' CIIV,(CH
:.:'!!:Ttl 1/Pff.I/Rf/l IN 111[ ®'r 
Ml/frtN ClJI6''CilNC€t.Rl 71£/R 
1?115SIN6 IINIIT?Jrt/ICA/..

M01\NII6'5 FfC,WIJNE .. @t':.JC/f, 
R!f&!feNCe5 f'(J/../..Y IN STTf!Pt...

.51/!l.fCR/roJN.f. me Rffri!JtrC,
Yll !NfOfiMAT!Vf 
IN 6€N£f<.A(... f«M/1/N{f/ m?ON&, 
HOW@I&R 

'' 
Campus 
FRIDAY 

12:15 -1:00 p.m.: Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns for faculty and staff, theme: The Constitution and Higher Education, "Authority and Democracy: Paulo Friere and the Philosophy of Edu­cation," by Prof. Alven Neimen, ND 124 Center for Social Concerns 3:00-5:00 p.m.: Signups for Fort Lauder­dale trip, Basement of LaFortune 
3:30 p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Pressure Tuning Spectroscopy of Metal cluster compounds and Organometallics," by Robert T. Roginski, University of Illinois, Urbana, 356 Fitzptrick Hall 3:30p.m.: Philosophy colloquium, "Om­niscience and Indexicality," by Prof. Ed­ward Wierenga, ND, commentator: Prof. Fred Freddoso, ND, Library Lounge 7:00, 9:00 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "9 1t2 Weeks", $1, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Se­ries, "Stranger than a Paradise," 1985, BW, 100 minutes, directed by Jim Jar­musch, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: Black Cultural Arts Festival Lecture-Performance, "History of Music from African to Jazz," by Dr. William Amouko, Library Auditorium 8:00p.m.: SMC Graduate Artists Recital Series, Xiao You, violin, Philip Raris, piano, Little Theatre 
SATURDAY 8:00a.m.-3:00p.m.: Education Testing Service Examination, Engineering Auditorium 
10:00 a.m. & 11:30 a.m.: Puppet Show featuring the No Strings Attached Puppet Troupe with Stories from Around the World: 10:00 show: "The Billy Goats Gruff" (Norway); "THe Snow child," (Russia); "The Terible Long One" (Africa), 11:30 SHow: "Lil' Red" 
........................ 
+ ~s··
+ se(\ 4~~ o : ~ 9'(0 ~~y \-'V-'!3 
+s~ ~ ·'-~' ~o 
9 1·g.~~· • EG Auditorium + 
i. Absolutely no alcohol allowed. : 
(France); "The Fisherman and His Wife (portugal); "THe Ant and the Grasshop­per" (England), $1 per person per show, Library Auditorium, Sponsors: Ladies of ND and SMC and Peace is Possible of the United Religious Community as part of the Peacemakers Performing Series 
1:00 p.m.: Track, ND vs. Mar­quettEYDePaul, ACC Fieldhouse 
7:00 p.m.: Black Cultrural Arts Festival Fashion Show, Tickets $6 for students, $8 for non students, Theodore's Student Cen­ter 
SUNDAY 
10:30 a.m.: A Solemn Mass of Thanksgiv­ing on the Occasion of the Susquicenten­nial of the Congregation of Holy Cross Sa­cred Heart Church, presiding Priest: Father Daniel Jenky, homilist: Father James Connelly 
4:00 p.m.: Music Department University Artist Series Concert, Orlando String Quartet, Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: Sophomore Literary Festival, Russell Banks, ACC Concourse 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Oven Fried Chicken Ravioli Green Eggplant Casserole Garden Vegatable Croissant 
Saint Mary's 
Ground Cheddar Beef French Pizza Bread Green Bean Casserole Deli Bar 


..._. 

When a body meets a body comln' through the rye 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Lace loop 6 Surveying nail 
10 Turkey 

follower 14 Worship 15 Entertainer 
Garr 16 Air 17 Calm and 

collected 20 Honshu city 21-Kringle 22 Calm and 
collected 26 Gypsy gent 27 Lexicon 
letters 28 At all 29 Snake 32 Hostile spirit 34 Navy man: abbr. 35 Papal name 361mplied 37 Obese 38 Out of­
(ill-tempered) 39 Czech river 40 Salt 41 Neufchatel 42-Moines 43 Taro fare 44 --Magnon man 45 Encountered 46 Calm down! 49 Search for 
game 51 Adhesive 52 Calm down! 57 Shield band 58 Worry 59 Alpine figure 150 Vaccine name 151 Actor Parker S2 Night beast 
DOWN 1 Ocean: abbr. 2 Wedding words 3 Dove sound 4 Synthetic 
textile 5 Style one's hair 6 Furnished with money 7 Nutty pie 
"1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
2/27/87

All Rights Reserved 
8 -Islands, Indonesia 9 Fagin's 
creator 10 Ceylonese 11 Chafes 12 Crude metals 13 Feather's 
partner 
18 Relief pitcher's successes 
19 Chemistry 
Nobelist 22 Made speeches 23 Legal minority 24 Clergy capes 25 Ger. philoso­
pher 2/27/17 29 Galley 38 Rather small 48 Spasmodic 30 Beginning 40 Fled 49 Blood fluids 31 Valuables 41 Overwhelm 50 Swiss hero 33 Russ. com-43 Many: pref. 52 Ring results munity 44 Shores 53 Actress Mary 34 Com unit 48 Czech 54 Four-In-hand 35 Part of EAP dramatist 55 Wine: pref. 37 Come up short 47 Belgium burg 56 Gun gp. 
1 
1 
l 1 
~ 
i 




Friday, February 'l7, 1987 -page 16




Seorts 
Irish escape to Wisconsin to take on Warriors 
Marquette to use Women set for home emotion hectic weekend 
By RICK RIETBROCK By MARTY STRASEN Sports Writer Assistant Sports Editor 
In the past month, Notre Dame has MILWAUKEE -Start with the fact used emotion from charged-up crowds that two Notre Dame players are re­to upset three of the nation's top 15 turning to their hometowns, add a teams. Tomorrow, Marquette would reunion of a coach with her former as­love to give the Irish the same kind of sistant and throw in a recruiting battle 
abuse when the two teams hook up in for good measure. 
Milwaukee. What you get is a hectic weekend in The Warriors, 15-10, appear to be a Wisconsin for the Irish women's bas­longshot to make the NCAA Tourna­ketball team. A weekend in which one ment, but with Notre Dame and DePaul might forget that there are two games
still on their schedule they could make to be played. a quick impression with wins in both Notre Dame battles Marquette to­games. morrow afternoon here in Milwaukee,
Tipoff is scheduled for 8 p.m. CST (9 sophomore forward Heidi Bunek's 
p.m. EST). hometown, in the opener of a In the first meeting between the doubleheader with the men's evening
teams almost a month ago, Notre Dame contest against the Warriors. methodically chipped away and even­Just down the highway in Madison, tually overcame a 28-23 Marquette the Irish are slated to face the Univer­
halftime lead to take a 58-48 victory at sity of Wisconsin on Sunday afternoon, the ACC. Donald Royal and David as center Sandy Botham returns to an Rivers split 32 points for the Irish, while arena just minutes away from where David Boone's 14 paced the Warriors. she grew up.
Unlike Notre Dame's dreamlike And ifyou need any more trivia about month, February has been nothing spe­that game, Notre Dame head coach cial for Bob Dukiet's squad. Since the Mary DiStanislao will be calling plays 
first game against the Irish, Marquette against her former assistant coach and has posted a 4-3 record. The Warriors college player, first-year Badger head beat Valparaiso, Stetson, Hartford and coach Mary Murphy. 
Fordham, but fell to DePaul at home Both teams hold 9-15 records on the and North Carolina and Dayton on the season. road. "It's going to be interesting because, 
see WOMEN, page 12

see ROAD, page 10 travel to Milwaukee to take on an 

Bengal Bouts to be fought in memory of Napolitano 
By CHRIS KILEY to have a charity tournament surge of interest in the past "We start out teaching the 12 fights in the finals, which is Sports Writer that would raise money for the couple of years and we are just fundamentals such as the jab, awesome." Holy Cross Missions in trying to perpetuate it." right hand, and good defense," New boxers need not worry "The strong fight, that the Bangladesh. After running the Just three years ago, interest said Weber. "As time goes on, about getting into the ring with weak may be nourished." Bouts for fifty years, he retired had declined to only 50 boxers. we get into more elaborate any Sugar Ray Leanords. 
This motto has been the and became the director Much of the credit for this strategies. The conditioning is "Guys with previous boxing driving force behind the Notre emeritus for seven years until tremendous surge has to go to a big part, especially in the last exerience will certainly have Dame Bengal Bouts since its his death. the coordinators and coaches. three or four weeks since most an advantage," said Weber. inception 57 years ago. This Despite Napolitano's death, Andy Pinelli, the promotions people already have their skills "But by the time the fights year, however, the Bouts will the Bengal Bouts are alive and and administrative director, down." come around everybody is at a be without the legendary foun­kicking. Charlie Rice, the faculty ad­The weight classes are pretty proficient level. It isn't der, Dominic J. "Nappy'' "We had 160 guys come out visor, and coaches Sean divided into groups of 16, start­unusual for a novice boxer to Napolitano, who died last year. after break and we still have McCormick and Jack Mooney ing from the lightest man to the do very well or even win it." 
"This year, the Bengal Bouts 119 of them left," said Weber. have all made the Bouts possi­heaviest. Weber himself made it to the are going to be held in Nappy's "That's 15 guys more than last ble. The club officers, Tom finals after only boxing in the honor,': said John Weber, vice­year, and far and away the best Newell, Kevin Duggan, John "This year we have a perfect, fall novice tournament. president of the Boxing Club. turnout in the last 10 years. Weber, and Fred Ahlholm also 12-bracket system," said 
Napolitano started the bouts There has been a tremendous help to coach. Weber. "It will come out with see BOXERS, page 13 

Has Phelps become the prophet of excitement at the ACC? 
"You aren't going to play your best every time importance of making foul shots at the end of the has been the student body. Conversations with him out. That's what makes it so fun. That's why you game. this month have always ended with the words, like college basketball. You don't know who's He might not have a book in the Bible, but Phelps "Thank the students for me." After each of the 
going to win." has been uncannily prophetic in this one of his upsets, Phelps has turned to the student section 
North Carolina head coach Dean Smith finest seasons as a coach. When practice began to acknowledge its play during the game. When Phelps had plenty of questions. When his squad local residents became upset with the students' Ever since Smith made those comments follow­was destroyed by Western Kentucky in the behavior, Phelps quickly rose to their defense. ing Notre Dame's upset of his then top-ranked Tar 
Wednesday night after the game and again at his Heels, his words have come true for the Irish since. press conference Thursday Phelps acknowledged Close losses and wins, including upsets of Dennis what the February heroics have meant to the stu­
nationally-ranked teams, have followed that dents of Notre Dame.
Corrigan

monumental upset a month ago. For the Irish and "All I know is that the seniors here at Notre their fans, college basketball has been as exciting Dame are going out happy," said Phelps. "I'm
Sports Editor 

as it will ever get. talking about the student body seniors, not just 
But the person whose words have come true (Scott) Hicks and (Donald) Royal. They've had a most often this month have been those of Notre preseason NIT, many thought that 20 wins against great year for us. These wins have meant a lot to Dame head coach Digger Phelps. the rest of the schedule would be impossible. them. They haven't had a lot to cheer about the 
Before the Carolina game his squad practiced Now the Irish stand at 18-7. Phelps and his as­last four years." cutting down the nets. Phelps knew and told his sistants have taken a relatively young and inex­squad they would down the Tar Heels. perienced squad and turned it into a team that 
Before upsetting Duke, Phelps worked with people have to look out for. Just ask any team that Another quote on the topic of Notre Dame came has come to the ACC this month. College basket­from Indiana basketball head coach Bob Knight ball has indeed been at its best. on the topic of SMU's probation. 
"I don't know why the Methodist church stays••••• affiliated with the school," said Knight. "Every One other aspect of the game that Phelps has as he has done all season, stressed the consistently pointed out as a strength of his team see KNIGHT, page 14 

The Observer I Bob Jones 
always-tough Marquette squad this weekend. Rick Rietbrock has the game preview at left. 







