' . 
'Super Tuesdays' -page 6 

VOL XXI NO. 121 TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1987 the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint \fa~ 's 

Associated Press respects." cret service into the embassy's Mica said embassy staff communications center and 
MOSCOW -A congressman members were acting quickly other sensitive areas. 
who made an unannounced 
to restore security at the nine­nighttime inspection of the U.S. story building on Moscow's The third Marine is under in­embassy said Monday that So­Garden Ring Road and a vestigation for allegedly violat­viet KBG agents have "fully ing the Corps regulation requir­
"secure area" had been 
compromised" it and undoing ing that contacts with Soviet
created ''within the last 48 
the damage will cost tens of hours." women be reported. 
millions of dollars. 
He added, however, that Sec­
Rep. Dan Mica said he and Defense Department sources 
retary of State George Shultz 
Rep. Olympia Snowe made the have said they assume the se­
still may have to bring a spe­
surprise inspection beginning curity breach allowed the
cial trailer for communicating 
at about midnight at the em­Soviets to decode message traf­
with Washington when he visits 
bassy, which is the focus of a fie over a period that includes
Moscow on April13-16 for talks 
sex-and-spy scandal allegedly the October summit in Iceland 
with Soviet officials. 
involving former· U.S. marine between President Reagan and 
The Florida congressman
guards. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­
heads the House Foreign Af­
After their tour and talks hev.
fairs Committee's operations
with embassy officials, Mica 
subcommittee, which super­
told reporters: "We are still as Mica said he and his Repub­
vises construction and running 
concerned as we were when we lican colleague arrived at the
of U.S. diplomatic missions 
left Washington: in fact, more abroad. Snowe is the subcom­embassy about midnight,concerned." 
mittee's ranking Republican. "before they (the embassy
"We agreed that this em­Their visit to Moscow was staff) were expecting us,'' and 
bassy should be considered at prompted by the arrests of were there until about 2 a.m. 
this time fully compromised," three Marines who were Mter the inspection, he said, the Florida Democrat said. "It guards at the embassy, two of they spent most of the day
will cost tens of millions of dol­whom have been charged with talking to people from virtually Jars to address our concerns." espionage. every department of the mis­Snowe, a Republican from According to Marine Corps sion. The congressman said 
Maine, told reporters gathered charges, those accused of they would make "specificin a freezing rain at the embas­spying became sexually in­recommendations" for im­sy's front entrance: "There is volved with Soviet women and proving security, but he would a lack of security here in many allowed agents of the KGB se-not give details. 
Dining hall resolution passes senate 
By GREG LUCAS restriction. I think to impose a amended form by unanimious Senior Staff Reporter restriction would be an insult consent. The amended resolu­to the student's intelligence," tion calls for a publicity cam­
In the first meeting of the said Brian Holst, student paign to notify students of new student body administra­senator. crowded conditions at the north tion under Pat Cooke, Student Viz attributed the crowding dining hall during finals. Senator Steve Viz proposed a at the north dining hall during In other news, Brian Holst 
resolution to restrict students, finals to the influx of students and Diane Fitzgibbon were ap­in each quad, to their respec­from the library. Laurie Bink, proved as members of the tive dining halls during finals, student body vice-president, Budget Committee represent­in order to reduce congestion recommended posting notices ing the on-campus senators and at the north dining hall. at the library during finals to class presidents respectively. 
The Resolution's call for warn students of the crowded Cooke discussed senate mandatory restriction to conditions at north dining hall. procedures and responsibilities respective dining halls met "In the past, there has been for the new term. "As repre­with opposition from many no effort to make students sentatives it is important to members of the Senate. "I aware the problem," said Pat keep your constituencies in 
think we're setting a bad prec­Cooke, student body president. mind. This is not a private in­edent to be making such a The resolution passed in terest group." 
Suit against Burtchaell appealed to high court 
By GREG LUCAS Maxtone-Graham, adding that 
Senior Staff Reporter ''the decision is inconsistent 
with the Supreme Court's deci­

Author Katrina Maxtone­sions in Harper & Row and 
Graham has asked the United Sony." 
States Supreme Court to hear In both the 1984 Sony Corp. 
her copyright infringement vs. Universal City Studios, Inc. 
suit against Notre Dame The­case and the 1985 Harper & 
ology Professor Father J am~s Row, Publishers, Inc. vs. Na­
Burtchaell and his publishers. tional Enterprises case, the Su­
Maxtone-Graham said Bur­preme Court upheld the 
tchaell went against her wish copyright holder, Maxtone­
and used over 7,000 words from Graham said. 
her book, "Pregnant by Mis­The author said she and her 
take: The Story of Seventeen publishers on two occasions ex­
Women" in his 1982 book, plicitly denied Burtchaell per­
"Rachel Weeping: The Case mission to use her material. 
Against Abortion." "(Maxtone-Graham) did ex­
Maxtone-Graham initiated a press the view that she didn't 
lawsuit against Burtchaell in want her book to be quoted,"
February, 1985. A district court said Shlee. 
rendered that Burtchaell had 
made "fair use" of Maxtone­Maxtone-Graham also 
Graham's material. An appel­charges thatBurtchaell's book 
lett court reaffirmed that deci­contains numerous errors and 
sion. distortions in the quotations of 
Burtchaell's attorney, David her material. "tBurtchaelfs) 
Shlee, said he and Burtchaell use of my material is an exam­
were pleased with the decisions ple of sheer sloppiness and out­
rendered by the District and rageous distortion," she said. 
Appellate courts. "I read <Burtchaell's) book 
Shlee defined "fair use" as ~nd was stunned at the i.'"lac­
"a doctrine that, under appro­curacies and disrespect of the 
priate circumstances, allows people I had interviewed,'' said 
somebody to quote from an­Maxtone-Graham. 
other work without permission ''Burtchaell will quote a wo­
of the author." man as though she is having an 
Burtchaell, University abortion, when, in fact, she is 
provost from 1970 until 1977, describing an adoption experi­
declined comment. ence," she added. 
Maxtone-Graham said her "My own feeling," said 
words constitute almost 20 per­Shlee, "was that there wasn't 
cent of Burtchaell's book. anythin~ material to what 
"I think that (the Appellate 
see SUIT, page 3

Court) made a mistake," said 
SMC student leaders decide to allow speaker 
By THERESA more lecture in their lives.'' HARRINGTON Hetterich also announced a News Staff ''Party on the Quad'' to be held 
on May 2, the Saturday before Eileen Hetterich opened the final exams. 

first meeting of her term as The event will feature two Saint Mary's student body bands, "The Law" and president by calling a joint "Freudian Slip," as well as meeting of the Board of Gover­possibly free food and drinks nance and Programming 1-5 p.m. in the LeMans court­Board. yard. It will be open to Saint 
As the first act of this Mary's and Notre Dame. meeting, the joint council voted Monday night with only one Stressing "support of the member dissenting to allow a board" as crucial to a success­speaker sponsored by a group ful year, Hetterich announced calling itself Gays and Les­the election of Hall Council­bians at Notre Dame and Saint women to be held next week Mary's to use a room at the Col­Monday.lege. Citing the fact that last 
"We are not lending our sup­year's elections drew "only port to the group, we are 10% of the student body," Het­simply allowing them to have terich said elections this year a meeting on our campus," will be held in the dining hall Saint Mary's Student Body on LeMans side from 7 a.m. to President Eileen Hetterich em­6 p.m. instead of at Haggar Col­phasized. In other business, lege Center as in past years.Hetterich announced that Said Hetterich, this is because former student body presidents "we know that more than 10 at Saint Mary's and Notre percent of the student bodyDame Jeanne Heller and Mike eats." Switek will speak tonight at 7 Hetterich said she en­
p.m. in Haggar College Center. courages all students to partic­They will discuss "what they ipate so as to have a great start would say if they could give one next fall. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 2 
Of Interest 
Father Malloy will participate in a Dialogue on Education panel discussion entitled "Education for Jus­tice: Is It Possible?" The discussion will include a panel of four students and will be held at 7:30 tonight in Washington Hall. Tickets are free. -The Observer 
University Counseling i~ s~onsor~ng a 2-par~ w?r~shop on ··'Managing Anger." This Is designed for. mdtvtduals who have difficulty managing their anger, either by ex­pressing anger too freely or by not expressing anger at all. They will be held tonight and next Tuesday, 6:15-7:15 
p.m. in 122 Haggar. -The Observer 
An anthology of Shakespearean love scenes, s~n~ets, and songs will be presented outdoors (weather perm1ttmg) on the Haggar College Center terrace tomorrow, Thursday, Friday and Monday, at 12:15 p.m. each day. 
-The Observer 
"Contraception: Two Perspectives" is the title of two lectures to be delivered today and tomorrow. The first will be given by Dr. Charles Rice of the ND Law School. The second will be given by Elizabeth Mooney, a certified sex therapist and counselor. Both lectures will begin at 7 
p.m. in Lafortune Little Theatre. They are sponsored by the Thomas More Society. -The Observer 
"From Backpack to Briefcase" is the title of a series of lectures aimed at helping seniors who are stressed out about next year. The series continues tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Tonight's talks center on finding a place to live as an ND alumnus. -The Observer 
MacBeth Stage Crew workers will have a meeti!lg tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Washington Hall Scene Stud1o. All interested should attend. For information call 239-5048. No experience is necessary. -The Observer 
This week is Pacem in Terris Week at Saint Mary's. The events of the week will examine prevailing attitudes that prevent peace and the various things that can be done to promote it. Today a lecture and slide show on South Africa will be held in the Stapleton Lounge at 3:30p.m. 
-The Observer 
Have you ever been walking down the street and some guys drive by and heckle you? Have you ever been lost in a strange town? Have you ever been nervous about a walk around campus or a trip to the beach? If any of this sounds familiar, attend a seminar tonight in 116 Hag­gar at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
Robert T. Paine of the University of Washington will begin a three-day lecture series today at 4:30p.m. in 283 Galvin. Today's lecture is called, "The Quest for Ecologi­cal Rules: The Contributions of Serendipity and Human Intervention." The series continues tomorrow and Thursday. -The Observer 
Weather 
Chill out today with partly cloudy skies and the temperature not exceeding the mid 50s. Mostly clear tonight. Low 35 to 
40. Partly sunny Wednesday. High in the low to mid 50s. -Associated Press 



Deaign Editor .................. Kathy Huston Delign A"utant .......... Eileen Lawrence TJ1pesetter• ........................... Jose Novas ......................................... Shawn Sexton Newa Editor......................... Chris Julka COPJI Editor......................... Chris Julka Sport• Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor ......................... . ..................................... Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout .............. Heidi Traxler 
Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha Chambers Accent Layout ...................... Carey Gels Buaineu Editor................ Steve Claeys Buainess Layout ............... Heidi Traxler Typists..... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .. ... . . . . . Pratibha Tripathi SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design ........... ...... Mary C. Creadon Photographer ............. Jennifer O'Donald 
Tile Olnener (USPS 599 2-40001 is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. The ObseO"er is published by the: students of the: University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be: purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The ObseO"er, P.O. Box Q, Notre: Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Grandparents show enthusiasm by making mountain out of moles 
This is a tale of adventure, of determination, of devious plots, of violence and gore. 
Our story opens in the seemingly serene set­ting of Grandma and Grandpa Buehrle's front yard. Birds are chirping as they dance through the branches of gargantuan trees. Squirrels ­not too unlike our very own ND variety -race and chase across the lush green lawn. Carefully tended flower beds line the half-acre of green. 
On the porch of the simple white one-story house sit our heroes, devoted to keeping law and order in their small kingdom at 345 Calver­ton Rd. They sit in rocking lawn chairs and drink in the beauty before them. Do not mistake their inert state for idleness, however; their acute sense for slight disturbance never ceases to work, and on these warm summer nights, their alertness is on overdrive. 
They are waiting. What are they awaiting? The most cantankerous, villainous creature that ever set foot in their happy little domain: The Demon Mole. After years of combatting his tunnels and trenches of destruction with poison, traps, and mini flash floods, they have finally decided to meet the enemy face to spade. Armed with what appear to be innocent garden shovels, they wield what they have concluded to be the most effective weapon in the shed .... one from which no weasley mole can escape. 
Grandma sits with the binoculars in hand, surveying the turf for turbulence. Grandpa rocks peacefully, but he is an overwound clock ready to spring into action at the slightest hint of trouble. 
Suddenly, Grandma jumps from her post with a shout. "Thar' she blows!" she cries as she sets her blue sneakers in motion. Grandpa flies toward the indicated yardquake as if he had wings on his feet. 
As they scurry to the spot, they know in their hearts that the moment has come. Sure enough, there is their Little Lawn Terrorist devilishly demolishing the terrain. The birds stop chirp­ing; the squirrels stop racing and chasing. They too have waited to see this moment and witness the final battle. 
Grandpa takes a deep breath and raises the spade high over his head, never taking his eyes off the trembling dirt. Grandma clutches her binoculars and squeezes her eyes shut in an­ticipation of the blow. 
Poised for action, Grandpa says a final prayer; all time screeches to a halt. Then, the death-shovel slices through the air, setting the earth back into motion. With a crash, metal meets earth, Mole meets death. 
Silence. 

Grandma opens her eyes and peeks at Grandpa, who grins back with a radiant glow of success. The birds break into joyous song; 

tne squirrels do flip-flops on the now safe green. 
Grandma and Grandpa do a little jig. 
Like all noble heroes, Grandma and Grandpa give their Enemy From Down Under a decent burial. They have once again set the world at 345 Calverton Rd. free from the path of destruc­tion, and all who live there rejoice and are glad. We leave our heroes proudly but attentively rocking in their porch chairs, ready to answer the call of chaos if the world should go astrayagain. 
For all you Save-the-Mole people out there, the point of my story is not that Grandma and Grandpa were right in trying to annihilate the entire mole population at 345 Calverton Rd. Rather, it is that they were right in how they went after the moles-with zeal. And that's the way they went after everything in life. 
Grandpa died in July of 1984, and Grandma died nine months later. They were two of my favorite people in the whole world, and I'll al­ways miss their drive and enthusiasm for life. 
I talked to my mom last night; she had gone to visit Grandma and Grandpa's graves earlier that day. Mom said she had to laugh. The ground over their graves was riddled with those lovely long mounds from mole tunnels. So, they didn't really win the Battle of the Mole Hills, but by their enthusiasm and determination, they won the Battle of Life. 
Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 


Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
--------TONIGHT--------­

Educating For Justice: Is It Possible? Speaker: Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, CSC President-elect, University of Notre Dame  
Student Panel: Michael Murdock, Marlene deGroot, Sophia Twarog & Ramzi Bualuan 7: 30 pm Washington Hall Tickets are free and are available from 11 am to 4 pm at Washington Hall. sponsored by the Committee for Dialogue on Educauon with support from the Student Government & the Center for Social Concerns.  



The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 3 
Suit 
continuedfrom page 1 
(Maxtone-Graham) was saying." 
Maxtone-Graham said that she expects the Supreme Court to decide on whether or not it will hear the case by the end of May. She added that only 4 per­cent of the cases that petition the Supreme Court are heard. 
"I feel it's a very important case. The precedent that this will establish, if left alone, is that you can take 7,000 words and twist and distort them," Maxton-Graham said. 
Maxtone-Graham is seeking a judgement that would remove Burtchaell's book from the market. "I would like to have his essay made unavail­able for sale or give-away,'' she said. 
Pope completes trip in Argentina 
Associated Press  tip of the continent. Vatican  Aires. Twelve people were in­ 
mediation  resulted  in  the  jured, including six police offi­ 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -Pope John Paul II on Monday said he came to Argentina to complete the pastoral mission he began nearly five years ago with a visit during the war with Britain over the Falkland Is­ ceding of three islands to Chile and the division of the sea rights in the channel. The pope arrived in Uruguay last Tuesday for a one-day visit, then spent an often­tumultuous six days in Chile.  cers. About 90 percent of the 31 million Argentines are Roman Catholic, but only about 10 per­cent regularly attend church. The House of Deputies recently approved divorce  
lands.  The pope's visit to Buenos  legislation  after  a  bitter  
President  Raul  Alfonsin  Aires  and  nine  cities  from  debate,  but  the  Senate  

ti'··~,~~:>JIJK>.31C>::.C-<:>3R~~:)~~
I I
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE '<=· Department of Communications & Theatre ~ 
presents a studio production of ~:)
I.. " ... hot ice and wondrous strange I snow." .
I a Shakespearean Anthology I devised & directed by Roberta N. Rude ~ 
1 
'-II
~ April 8,9,10,13 -12:15 pm ;!..~ I Haggar Center Terrace ~ !;!~I ~i:~ ~:~ig:~ Parlor 0I Haggar Parlor. . . ~ 
§t Free AdmiSSion, for more mfo 284-4640 ­
,,~,~~:~~~~-.tJMif~;>.;W,~)'~}'.i 
greeted John Paul upon the pon­tiff's arrival from Chile for the last leg of a two-week, three­nation of tour of southern South America. 
Argentina was under mili­tary rule during John Paul's previous trip. On June 14, 1982, two days after the pope ended that visit, Argentine forces on the archipelago surrendered to British troops to end the bloody 10-week war. 
The defeat was the military regime's death knell, and Al­fonsin was elected and in­augurated in late 1983. 
Argentina and Chile almost went to war in late 1978 over three small islands in the Beagle Channel at the southern Patagonia in the south to the semi-tropical north is regarded with mixed feelings, according to a poll published Monday in the daily newspaper La Razon. 
According to a poll of 400 men and women aged 18 to 74, 51 percent of those in metropolitan Buenos Aires are opposed or indifferent to the pope's visit. Only 47 percent of those polled by the Hugo I. Kolsky agency favored the visit. Two percent had no opinion. 
A band of youths including some self-proclaimed anar­chists protesting the visit clashed with police in Buenos postponed its vote until after the pontiff leaves. 
The pope is expected to ad­dress that issue as well as human rights. 
A investigatory commission established by Alfonsin said about 9,000 suspected leftists were abducted and summarily executed, most of them after being tortured, by security forces under the 1976-83 dicatorship. 
On Tuesday, the pope will travel to the southern coastal city of Bahia Blanca, then to Viedma, which is expected to become the new federal capital within the next few years. 


This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to
s 
the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 
Anywhere Greyhound goes. 
·~k!ave 

Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 
Must presen1 a valid college &udemi.D. card upon purchase. No 01her discoums apply. Tickels are noruransferable and good for 1ravel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and Olher participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 2/1187 through 413W87. Offer limited. Nol valid in Canada. <r> 1987 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
Consultant gives advice 
• 
on Insurance 
ROB HENNIG 
Copy Editor 
Preparing graduating stu­dents for financial indepen­dence was the topic of the first lecture in the "Transition from Backpack to Briefcase" series held Monday night. 
Monday night's lecture is the first of a three part series spon­sored by the University Coun­seling Center and the Senior Class. 
"There's a lot of questions seniors have about what they're going to be facing when they leave Notre Dame," said Christine Conway, staff psy­chologist with University Coun­seling. 
"We thought it would be good to provide the opportunity to get some information about fin­ancial matters and relocation and ways to cope," Conway continued. 
The lecture, held at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns Auditorium, dealt with per­sonal budgeting, insurance and banking. 
John Lloyd, of Lloyd Insur­ance Agency, discussed the various types of insurance and the insurance needs of young adults. 
"Insurance really, to me, is a matter of . . . needs and wants," Lloyd said, adding, "Everybody's needs and wants are different." 
For auto inusurance, Lloyd recommended that graduating students get higher limits both in bodily injury and in property damage. 
''Think in terms of getting higher limits because your're not going to save that much (money) in the lower limits," Lloyd advised. 
Lloyd also recommended students CQnsider buying auto insurance from major compan­ies first, because employers frequently transfer younger employees. 
For home insurance, Lloyd advised students to record all of their possessions. He said it is a good idea to have a record of all household goods because "in the event of a loss, proof and burden of the loss is upon you." 

The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 4 
Reagan will consider treaty over acid rain 
SMCprofs 
•

receive $5,000 grants 
By DEIRDRE FINN 
News Staff 
Professors Anne Brown and Herold Weiss of Saint Mary's each received a grant of $5000 from the Lilly Endowment 
A total of 28 faculty mem­bers at 15 different institu­tions in Indiana applied for the grants. Of these 28 only 15 applications from 11 insti­tutions received funds. 
Weiss, professor of religi­ous studies, said that seven faculty members at Saint Mary's applied for the grant. The college then se­lected and supported three of these applications. The endowment narrowed the competition to two success­ful applicants. A panel of out-of-state independent col­lege administrators selected the winners. 
Brown, assistant profes­sor of mathematics, said she would use the grant to develop a new mathematics course which would appeal to the liberal arts student. 
Weiss said he "hasn't any idea yet" what he will do with the grant. 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA President Reagan said Monday there are "no quick and easy answers" for curbing acid rain, but he agreed to consider a Canadian proposal for a treaty requiring lower pollution levels by an agreed date. 
Reagan made his surprise of­fer in a speech to Parliament after Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney told the same audience, "In this matter, time is not our ally but our enemy. The longer we delay, the greater the cost." 
The agreement to consider holding negotiations on the issue allowed the two leaders to wind up a 24-hour visit by Reagan on an upbeat note. 
Earlier, both sides predicted there would be no agreements, and U.S. officials said privately that a treaty was not the cor­rect way to combat pollution, particularly since various tech­nologies are being explored to fight it. 
Calling acid rain a two-nation problem requiring a two-nation solution, Mulroney said: "I ur­gently invite the United States administration and the Ameri­can Congress to join with this Parliament and the govern­ment of Canada in concluding a firm, bilateral accord which will provide a North American solution to acid rain." 
Reagan, departing from his prepared text in his speech minutes later, said he had "agreed to consider" Mul­
=Ihe=Observer 
The Obser.ter Is accepflng applications for the following paid positions: 
DAY EDITOR 
Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-5313). 
roney's proposal, "building on the tradition of agreements to control pollution of our shared interior waters," referring to the Great Lakes. 
He said they also "agreed to inject new impetus" to talks on 
Canada's  disputed  claim  of  
sovereignty  in  the  icy  
Northwest Passage.  

In their meetings earlier, Mulroney used a globe in his office to press his case that Canada owns the passageway through the Arctic Ocean. 
The United States recognizes a 12-mile Canadian coastal jurisdiction but insists the waterway is an international strait through which other countries are entitled to pas­sage. 
On another sensitive issue between the two countries, the president promised to work for the success of free-trade. 

HITECENTER 
FORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
..---;-rHETHOMAS J.--.... 
Notre Dame Law School 
presents a lecture by 

Rev. Christopher Mooney, S.J. Academic Vice President Fairfield University on "Law, Religion, and Cultural Change" Wednesday, April 8 Noon Room 121 Law School 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
"ieVV~_O_i_n_t_______________
Tuesd-ay,A-pril-7,198-7-pa-ges 

Goal of education debate continues over decades 
On March 10, Gregory Maggetti wrote a column commenting on the state of American higher education generally, and at Notre Dame specifi­cally. The letter was interesting and provocative, and should challenge the Notre Dame community -administra­tion, faculty and students -to undertake a serious assessment of their own views of the quality of education in our uni­versity. 
John J. Gilligan 
guest column 
The writer raised the issue of whether the education offered to Notre Dame students amounted to little more than glorified vocational -technical educa­tion, and cited recent surveys of student attitudes which seemed to establish the fact that the students are getting ex­actly what they want, a ticket to a finan­cially rewarding career in the form of a college diploma. It may seem strange, but almost the same dialogue about the purposes and effects of higher education was underway at Notre Dame almost a half century ago, when I was an undergraduate. In that era the great high priests of liberal education were Robert Maynard Hutchins and Mortimer Adler of the University of Chicago, and Stringfellow Barr at St. 
John's College at Annapolis. And the arguments, pro and con, were very much the same as today. 
The real point is the same as in those earlier times: education is not a com­modity, to be designed, packaged and merchandised to appeal to the broadest possible consumer group. The cus­tomer in this instance Cif we mean the student) is most assuredly not always right. If coming into the university they knew what was important and unimpor­tant, had a well developed set of values, and had developed their own talents and insights to a fully adult level, they would not need an education. They could pay the fees and pick up the di­ploma during freshman orientation, and get on with the important business of life. 
If the transmission of information is the goal, students at far less expense than four years in college will cost, can equip themselves with a computer and learn how to tap the appropriate data banks which continue to proliferate in every field of knowledge. 
It is precisely that transmission of information and attitudes which has done so much to form the students who come here, a transmission which in­volves far more than formal schooling; it is the popular culture in which the student is immersed from the moment of birth. And if anything has changed 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer IS the mdependent ne.vspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nSt1tut10n The news 1s reponed as accurately and ObJeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the ma,onty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of varymg opm1ons on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged 
in the past fifty years, it is the enor­mously increased power and efficiency of the technology and techniques of communicating the culture of materialism, militarism and con­sumerism. That's why an increasing number of incoming freshmen in uni­versities all over the country, incluciing Notre Dame, arrive on the doorstep convinced that "being very well-off financially" is the primary goal of higher education, and indeed of life. 
It is precisely that notion, and that attitude, which Notre Dame and every other self-respecting university should be dedicated to discrediting, because it is the absolute antithesis of the idea that the goal of higher education is to lead the student to the fullest possible development of the qualities and talents that make one fully human. Granted, that begs the question: what are those talents and qualities, and how are they developed? Right. That's where the process must begin, by asking those questions and exploring all possible answers. 
And since teachers cannot give what they don't have, the process must ever­lastingly involve them in asking and reasking and exploring the answers themselves, every year and every month, all over again. As soon as the teachers begin to regard the answers to those questions as so much informa­tion to be organized, codified, packaged attractively, and transmitted to the stu­dents with maximum efficiency, and minimum fuss, the process dies. In other words, if the teacher is not con­stantly growing and developing, not just in terms of specific knowledge, but in terms of the qualities and talents which make one fully human, the teacher is back in the commodity busi­ness. 
For the educational process to be all that it can be, it must necessarily in­volve always both students and teach­ers in a never-ending cycle of develop­ment and renewal -intellectual, cultural, and spiritual. Notre Dame claims, at least implicity, to possess distinct advantages over secular insti­tutions in appreciating the full dimen­sions of intellectual, cultural and spir­itual life, and a profound respect for the potential capacity for development of each individual human being. If that is true, we should be able to demon­strate on a day to day basis, in the life of every student and every teacher, the regenerative power of Christian higher education. 
At the very least, we should be prepared to discuss the subject, at length. John J. Gilligan is the Director of the Institute for International Peace Studies. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Student's death marks victory over adversity 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to call the attention to the tragic death of a recent Notre Dame alumnus, Antonio Mazure, from whom we have much to learn. 
Antonio arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1981 to pursue his graduate studies in physics. Not long after start­ing, in his second semester, he learned he had contracted acute leukemia. He bravely had to fight for his health, life and future with the aid of chemot­herapy treatment. His recovery was hard and painful, but he managed to regain his health and strength, become actively involved in his scientific re­search, and on the side, play soccer in the city league. 
Doonesbury 
A WANER. FROM ON& 
OF 7H& {}f}I­ERGIRIJS. 
'~""=-­
In December of the following year he developed lymphoma, or cancer of the lymph nodes, which had to be treated with high radiation doses. His struggle to survive was even harder than before; besides having to fight the dis­ease he had to fight the terrible side effects of the treatment. Again, he managed to fight his way out of it and continue with his Ph.D. research. 
The following year his leukemia came back again, as strong and defeat­ing as ever before. Yet he was not ready to give up, chemotheraphy was by then his way of living, and he was again able to recover. He obtained his Ph.D. in August of 1985, with an impressive · record; he had finished his degree in only four years with a 3.9 GPA and generated an excellent piece of thesis research. 
A year later he had another leukemia 
IT'5 NICE. 

I 7Ha16HT REAl NICE. 
YOUOANC­

50. fA/HATS M05T/.YRE7//?tES, 
/N6AFT&R­

"THe CRI)tU[) 8l/T Ya.JNEveR 
NOONS 7HJS 

UK&? f<}./(JA/ UIHO 7Ht 
YI3AR? 
CA'TS GOING TO

I 8RJNGIN! ".
\ 

relapse, while working as a post­doctoral research associate at Notre Dame. Early this year he went through a bone marrow transplant, in a last at­tempt to overcome this disease that was quickly closing in on him. Unfor­tunately, on Saturday, March 28, he lost his hard-fought battle with cancer: he died after a long month of struggle. 
Few people have this kind of courage and stamina to fight against adversity and death. Those of us who knew him had a display of courage, friendship and excellence we will never forget. His example, of somebody who never gave up, and who always fought for his ideals and future, should be recognized, ad­mired and imitated. 
Antonio, we will miss you. 
Enrique J. Galvez Notre Dame Alumnus 
Garry Trudeau 
Promotions 
The Viewpoint department has made the following promotions. 
Tim Brennan, a sophomore Ameri­can Studies major, has been promoted to Assistant Viewpoint Editor. He has worked on the staff since January and his hometown is Aberdeen, Washing­ton. Matt Slaughter, a freshman from Minnetonka, Minnesota also has been promoted to Assistant Viewpoint Editor. Slaughter is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies and joins Brennan and freshman Sara Marley on the staff. 
Matt Guye, a sophomore from In­dianapolis, Indiana, has been promoted to Copy Editor. Other new Copy Editors are Brian Broderick, a junior government major from Livonia, Michigan, and Pam Bethel, a junior from Texarkana, Texas. They join junior Julie Collinge on the Copy Editor staff. 
Quote of the day 
"Is it so bad then to be misunderstood? Pythagoras was misunderstood, and Socrates, and Jesus, and Luther, and Copernicus, and Galileo, and Newton, and every pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh. To be great is to be misunderstood." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
(1803-1882) 
"Self-Reliance•• 
General Board 

Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef ... . . ................ Kev1n Becker Busmess Manager........................... Brian P. Murray Managmg Ed1tor. . Mark Pankowski Advertismg Des1gn Manager.. ....... Michael Wh1tton News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . Chris Bednarski Advertismg Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Ed1tor. . . . ... . . ... ... . . .. . . . . .............. Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpomt Editor.. . ................ Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor. . ................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager.............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor . . . ..... Michael Naughton Controller............. . . . ................ Tracy Schindele Saint Mary·s Ed1tor .... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ..................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor .. J1m Carroll Development Manager .......... ...... Michael Shannon 
Founded November 3,1968 
Accent 
Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 6 

ABC's 'SuperTuesdays' make a comeback 
JOE BUCOLO senior staff reporter 

R
emember the old days when ABC's Tuesday night lineup was the best? Everyone loved "Happy Days," "Laverne and Shirley," and "Three's Company." These shows helped to make Tuesday one of TV 's best nights. Well those days are gone, right? Wrong. ABC's super Tuesdays are back. Now that ABC has removed its weak "Jack and Mike" from the Tuesday night lineup, the shows are all strong and In­triguing. With this new lineup of very popular shows, ABC has recaptured its title of TV's best lineup. 
At 7:00 on Tuesday night ABC airs "Who's The Boss?" This show stars Tony Danza, Judith Light, and Katherine Helmond. Angela, played by Light, owns her own advertis­ing agency. She Is divorced and has a son. Since she can't be at home with her child, she hired Tony (played by Danza) to be her live-in house keeper. Also divorced, Tony has a daughter. The kids get along extremely well. The third major character is Mona, Angela's mother. Mona works at An­gela's agency and winds up attracting most of the custom­ers. The character of Mona is so popular that ABC is consid­ering a spinoff called, what else, "Mona." An upcoming May episode of "Who's The Boss?" will serve as the pilot for the spinoff. If that episode Is suc­cessful, ABC will begin taping "Mona." As the show's title indicates, there is some confu­sion over who really Is the boss. Angela is the boss at the office, yet Mona seems to run everthlng. In fact, many cus· 
tamers refuse to deal with anyone but Mona. Also, Angela owns the house, yet Tony seems to manage It better than she ever did. Tony even ad­vises the kids--as well as An· gela. This Is a truly funny and Ingenious show with a cast to match. 
Things only get better when "Who's The Boss?" ends. At 7:.30, "Growing Pains" begins. This Is another of television's · finest. "Growing Pains" features a family of five. The mother is a journalist and the father Is a psychiatrist. What's the catch? Since the mother is out of the house, the father, Jason, moved his practice into the house to watch the kids. Jason and Maggie have three interest­ing children. Mike, played by Kirk Cameron, is the oldest. He is a witty guy who prides him· self on his charm and "ways with women." Carol, played by Tracey Gold, is the genious of the family while Ben, played by Jeremy Miller, is the youngest. In many of his scenes, Ben is so funny that he quickly be­comes one of the audience's favorites. While many shows ignore the premise on which they are based, "Growing Pains" always seems to remind the audience that Jason Is a psychiatrist and housekeeper 
while Maggie is a journalist. 
The cast of this show sparkles. Alan Thicke is perfect In the role of Jason. Joanna Kerns plays a mother who re­members what adolescence Is all about. Kirk Cameron's per­formance as Mike is flawless. Tracey Gold is funny in that she perfectly portrays a humble, yet strong sister. FI­nally. Jeremy Miller Is hilarious as young Ben, the brother who follows Mike's advice and winds up succeeding more than Mike. This show is sure to be around for many years. 
ABC's 8:00 show speaks for itself: "Moonlighting." This show is a trend setter in every sense of the word. Through many different forms, this show entertains Its audience like no other. "Moonllghting"is known for its brilliant show for­mats. One episode placed the main characters, Maddie and Dave, as the main characters of Shakespeare's "Taming of the Shrew." Another episode fea­tured an interview of the char­acters by Rona Barrett. 
The relationship between Maddie and Dave alone keeps 



.• 
Maggie (Joanna Kerns) combines motherly advice with 
"Growing Pains." the viewers coming back for more. Recently, Mark Harmon joined the cast as Maddie's boyfriend, Sam. These four episodes showed the true feelings that Maddie and Dave feel for each other. On the last of these. four episodes, Sam, who had asked Maddie to marry him, left when he realized he didn't stand a chance against Dave. 
Another trend that this show recently set Is the rerun. "Moonlighting" has had more reruns this season than any other show. The viewers don't seem to care, though. This is evident in that fact that "Moon­lighting," like the two previ­ously mentioned shows, is al­
ways in the top ten. 
Bruce Willis is excellent as David Addison. His newly found fame has permitted him to "ex­pand" his horizons into music and cable television. The beau­tiful Cybill Shepherd is superb as Maddie Hayes. The aura of stubborness with which she portrays Maddie has proven very effective. 
The final show in the lineup Is brand new, "Max Headroom." This show centers around Max. the familiar face seen on all those Coke commercials. The show is intriguing and fun to watch; however, the success of the show has yet to be deter­mined. One thing's for sure. It is a definite improvement from "Jack and Mik~" the "Moon· lighting" copycat and ratings disaster. Given time, "Max" is sure to succeed. If the popularity of Max's Coke com­mercials is any indication, this show should be around for a while. 
ABC's Tuesday night lineup is the best on television. It pro­vides a lot of comedy along with some suspense and in­trigue. The shows all feature superb casts and excellent writ­ers. With the possibilty of a "Who's The Boss?" spinoff and the popularity of "Growing Pains" and "Moonlighting," ABC has a definite winning night. 

'Life through the eyes of a peasant' 
KATIE KMRNf:Y features writer 

T 
he exciting, award-winning play "A Peasant of El Sal· vador" will have a single per· formance Thursday, April 9 at 8p.m. in Washington Hall. 
First created and performed by Gould ~ Stearns, a two-man theatre company from Ver­mont, "A Peasant of El Sal· vador" is the human, tender story of an aging hill farmer, his wife and five children who are trying to maintain the life they have always known. Rooted In land, faith, and fam­ily, their struggle stands out against a backdrop of sweeping social and political change. 
In this National Touring Com­pany production, two actors create 16 different characters. David Perrigo portrays among others, a son, a neighbor, a land reformer, a plantation foreman and the late Arch· bishop Romero. George Sanchez plays the old farmer, the central character of the play. Both men tell the tale with a light touch of humor and sensitivity, gathering the audience into a memorable theater experience. 
This powerful drama is the longest running play of its kind in the United States. The pro­duction won the 1985 Denver Global Justice and Peace award and has received standing ova­tions In .39 states and London since its first performance in 

1981. 
Mike Keen, coordinator of Special Programs and Events for the Cent~r of Social Con­cerns hopes to fill Washington Hall. Keen said, "It's very diffi­cult to present good drama and art that deals with contem­porary social issues because you're likely to either fall into some sort of rhetoric or put on an incredible dramatic presentation and miss the so­cial issue. These actors walk the tight rope and succeed in presenting life through the eyes of a peasant as well as good drama." 
"A Peasant of El Salvador" is being sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Other sponsors include the Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies, the International Students Office, Students Or­ganized for Latin America, Community for International Lay Apostolate, and the Over­seas Development Network. 
Admission is $4 for the gen­eral public, and $1 for stu­dents. Advanced tickets are available through the Center for Social Concerns at 2.39· 
529.3. All Proceeds will go to International Relief In El Sal­vador. 

--------------------------------------------------~---~-~--­
-

Business 
Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 7 

ND professor against tariff limiting Japan's chip exports 
By RENEE GAU 
Business Writer 
Last Friday the Reagan ad­ministration took steps to im­pose unprecedented sanctions of up to 100 percent on Japanese electronic imports. 
These sanctions will take ef­feet within ten days unless the Japanese allow U.S. computer chip manufacturers access to a larger portion of the Japanese market. 
U.S. 
officials maintain that this action is necessary to retaliate against Japan's breech of an agreement which was reached last July. 

At that time, Japan promised to open more of its markets to 

U.S. 
. microchip producers while increasing prices on their own chips. Through this settle­ment, Washington hoped to stop what they called dumping by the Japenese -selling chips below cost on the American market. 


Notre Dame Professor of Economics James Rakowski has taken issue with these sane­tions. "It is a regrettable policy," Rakowski said. 
He said the action taken by the Reagan administration is not a serious threat to the Japanese, but rather, "a signal that cooperation between the 
U.S. and Japan has become frayed." 
Rakowski maintains that im­posing sanctions on Japanese electronic imports may un­necessarily strain business re­lations. 
The Nakasone government has been working hard to en­force the agreement, but "it's difficult to control those inde­pendent, strong-willed Japan­ese producers," Rakowski added. 
So far the Japanese govern­ment has imposed a 30 percent reduction in domestic chip manufacturing, allowing American-made semiconduc­tors to penetrate the Japanese market with greater ease. 
By placing sanctions on Japan, the U.S. is inviting Japanese business to form a type of cartel to restrain trade, Rakowski said. 
Rakowski also disagrees with Washington's accusation that Japan is dumping microc­hips. "In anticipation of the fact that tariffs will be im­posed, people who want to buy microchips are buying them now, and that's tending to drive up prices," he said. 
Rakowski further stated that "it's difficult to say that dum­ping is going on." 
Pressure for the sanctions is coming from U.S. industrial leaders who are concerned that the Japanese are attempting to monopolize the microchip mar­ket after having already ac­quiring 90 percent of common memory chip sales. 
Rakowski agrees that the 
U.S. government "has a role to protect people from the harsh­ness of economic adjustment.'' 
The government, however, "should be less concerned with trying to change the structure of trade (in the microchip in­dustry) and more concerned with targeting individuals," Rakowski said. 
Furthermore, Rakowski said, "I don't think that a case has been made that (the Japanese) have that sort of a scheme to monopolize." 
There are many "robust" competitors in Japan, compet­ing freely and driving prices down, he said. 
•----------------------.. Electronics industry leaders 
also fear that Japan will soon
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 
683.1959
CALL NOW 
.....________ 
4 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2 V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GA.TES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUND1\ Y 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
·­
surpass the U.S. in technologi­cal innovations. Some have said that there is a very real threat to U.S. military security if the U.S. should have to depend on Japan for microc­hips and semiconductors. 

Rakowski argued that this fear is ill-founded. "If we're still worried about Japan as an enemy then that would be a legitimate concern, but don't we think of Japan as an ally?" he said. "We don't have to think of everything as one big Super Bowl where there's a winner and a loser. 
"It doesn't hurt us if they are more productive and inventive . . . . We should worry about our own productivity,'' said Rakowski. 
Furthermore, Rakowski said he believes that as Japan's technology increases, the U.S. has a greater incentive to ex­pand.
Presently, the Reagan ad­ministration is attempting to avoid imposing a unilateral sanction on all Japanese prod­ucts. U.S. officials would prefer to limit sanctions only to those products in which Japan is the predominant supplier. 
"Our problem is that some people are being impacted ad­versely," said Rakowski. "We should cut away the under­brush and . . . focus on this problem the most direct way. 
-"1 have a 'Don't get excited' attitude about this situation," Rakowski said optimistically. He said he believes that offi­cials from both the United States and Japan are more con­ciliatory than they appear and are probably very willing to negotiate and resolve this tension-filled problem. "In my opinion, it's not the beginning of a trade war," Rakowski said. 

Fake diplomas generate false hope 
If you're in the market for a Allied Science. "I thought it tunately, he didn't receive a college degree, you might want would be a neat way to get a raise because the school where to look into one of the nation's quick raise," Cronin was he teaches does not recognize
several "diploma mills." The quoted as saying. Northwestern. catch: These illegitimate schools have no academic re­
Alex
quirements, and all their degrees are fraudulent. VonderHaar 
The Wall Street Journal recently published the story of Business Bits a teacher from Worcester, 

Mass. Frederick Cronin bought Cronin thought his life expe­a doctorate in business man­riences had qualified him for agement for $590 from a place the doctorate, but "I just didn't 

NOTRE DAME COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 'iBI DHBI' JMi liBCCIJIJDrf 
FBATUIING PIPTEEN BANDS ROll NINE STATES AND THE SPECTACULAil jUDGES. JAil .FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 10-11, 1987 STEPAN CENTER 
TI<XETS: 

7:30 FRIDAY NIGHT SS 
1:00 SATURDAY AfTERNOON S3 
7:30 SATURDAY NIGHT  $4  
ALL-SESSION PASS  $9  
WITH STUDENT ID  $8  

TI<XETS AVAILABLE AT THE DINING HALLS THIS Wex, A THE CELLAR, AT BONNIE OOON OUTLETS, AND AT THE DOOR. 
••*MORE INFO: CALL•• • 
*239-7757 OR 283-2139• 
A 1985 congressional investi­gation revealed that as many as 500,000 Americans hold false degrees, but some diploma­mill customers are not aware of the worthlessness of their degrees. 
Some fake institutions, for example, have taken impres­sive names like the University of England at Oxford and Southwestern University. These schools will grant credentials in fields ranging from medicine to law enforce­ment, and some give discounts to customers buying more than one degree at a time. 
Some employers have qualms about accepting resumes mentioning diplomas from just any Podunk U. One contracting firm president in North Carolina hired a control­ler who presented two business degrees from diploma mills. 
"I don't know if the company will ever recover," Everett Schafer was quoted as saying. The company had to pay out­side auditors $150,000 to mend the mangled financial records. 
Both students and employers should be aware of the potential danger of diploma mills. If left unchecked, printing presses may tarnish the proud image of college degrees. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1987-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Kathy Brienza of the ND judo club placed third in the women's lightweight division of the Na­tional Collegiate Judo Championship at Columbus, Ohio Saturday. -The Observer 
Trivia Night returns to "Speaking of Sports" tonight. Join the heads of the campus sports depart­ments, Larry Burke of Scholastic, Dennis Corrigan of The Observer and Frank Mastro of WVFI and host Rudy Brandl and compete for a host of valuable prizes. Call 239-6400. -The Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee team captains should pick up schedules tonight at 7:30 in 118 Nieuwland. Please bring a $5 entry fee to this mandatory meeting. For more information contact Pat Dunne at 283-1562. -The Observer 
Irish spring runs will be held Sunday, April 12, at 1 p.m. The cost is $4 if preregistered, $5 the day of the race. There will be trophies, door prizes, refreshments and t-shirts, and those who wear green will receive a dollar. The runs will be three and six miles long. -The Observer 
The Golden State Warriors clinched a playoff spot for the first time in 10 years last night when they edged the San Antonio Spurs in overtime, 120­119.-Associated Press 
In the National League yesterday, Cincinnati clubbed Montrealll-5, Houston edged Los Angeles 4-3 and San Francisco got by San Diego in 12 innings, 4-3. -Associated Press 
The Stanley Cup playoffs start tomorrow night with eight best-of-seven series on tap for the first round. In the Adams Division, Hartford faces Quebec and Montreal plays Boston. Calgary meets Winnipeg and Edmonton takes on Los Angeles in the Smythe Division, while St. Louis faces Toronto and Detroit plays Chicago in the Norris Division. And in the Patrick Division, the N.Y. Rangers face Philadelphia while theN. Y. Islanders take on Wash­ington. -Associated Press 
In the American League yesterday, it was Toronto 7, Cleveland 3; New York 2, Detroit 1 in 10 innings; Baltimore 2, Texas 1; Chicago 5, Kansas City 4 and Milwaukee 5, Boston 1. -Associated Press 
'The Ob81rnr Notre Dame office. located on the third fJOOf' of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertlstng from 10 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frklar. Tbe ~... Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Doctoral academic gown,traditional, for If you found my backpack in South Dining GARGOR gargor GARGOR gargor GAR­APPALACHIA VOLUNT'"ERS medium build, with mortar board (size 7 Hall on «>. Please call me and arrange GOA gargor GARGOR gargor GARGOR of aprlng break '87 518). Best olfer. Call 239· 7638 during for me to lind my te)(tbooks. Please. it's gargor GARGOR gargor GARGOR gar· The get-together for Thursday has been
\L...-_N_O_T_IC_ES~~ 1'--_FO_R_RE_NT___ 
working hours. a matter of life or death. Keep the rae· gor GARGOR gargor GARGOR gargor changed to Friday at 6:30 p.m. at Don­Typing quet, but I need my books. Call Geoff at na's apartment. Everyone is expected
6 bedroom 4-6 students $40(}5()0 & GARGOR gargor Free Pickup and Delivery '76 FORD GRANADA LOW MILES. 1935.
utilities. Security system 234·6688 show, including Jim, Sharon. Peggy .
277·7406 GREAT HWY PERFORMANCE. BEST Chris. Michelle, Christine. Marc, and ofOFFER. CALL TIM-x2777 or x1207
SUM STOR:all belonings(incl course Joe.
Need ride to Indiana University • Hey, I put ads in here all last week asking 
fur)saf&'Secure Bill M.232-3416 Any problems. call Pete at 239·5303.
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER (I"M Bloomington weekend of Apr. 10. Call for the return of my Lev1s Jeans Jacket Missy, we'll miss you, but have fun onMRS. COKER, 233· 7009. GRADUATING). CORRECTABLE. Miriam at 2687. which was taken from a Lewis party last 
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT the retreat.
' HARDLY USED. BEST OFFER. CALL weekend, and what do I get? No
SCHOOL YEAR NEAR N.D. CALL 683· 
Wordproceulng 8889 TIM-)(2777, x1207 SOPHSI SOPHSI SOPHSI response, that's what I get. I hope the 2n-a131 concerned party realizes the weather 
The residents of Farley Hall would likeIt's time to... 

isn't going to warm up until my jacket is
Houses For Rent·3 and 4 bedroom to congratulate MAUREEN FARLEY for
ROUND-TRIP BEACON BOWL 
returned, so call Paul at 2287 and I'll let
homes for summer and next school year. her role as Lady Macbeth in MACBETH
UNITED AIR TICKET
TYPING AVAILABLE BEACON BOWL Spring begin. No questions asked.
Clean and furnished. Less than 1 mile Great job! We'll all be there!
Continental U.S. BEACON BOWL 
from campus. Call Lennie at 234·7650. 
$200t:lffer Wed, AprilS
287-4082 ........................................ 
Coach O'Sullivan: A status report, sir

-Jim 283·1000 9:00p.m. $1 per game 
Hey ZOLTAN!!!I Thanks a million!! I owe We won in the first round by 9. Will you you one...or two!!··SC 
make 11 to our ne)(t game, saturday? We'll 

UNIVERSITY RESUME Need Transpo?! .. .................................................... . 
bring the lucky sand wedge. Respectfully . 

Proreaalonel RNumea WANTED Bus available ·$2 Signups at Soph Office "CONTRACEPTION-THE CHURCH'S The Fan Club.
Student RatN ATTENTION One way ticket lrom 2nd floor Lafortune Dr.
PERSPECTIVE" by Charles Rice. Near the Mall Chicago to Buffalo-$80 ! On April 16 at Mon & Tues 2·5 Notre Dame Law School. 7PM Tuesday
Need ride to CINCI this weekend. Call Thank You St. Jude
1 :44PM. If interested call Liza at 34 7 4 !
272-8336 April 7 in LaFortune Little Theatre.
Joe 1725 
SOPHSISOPHSISOPHS! 
Challenge your mind with a major or

Round trip ticket to D.C.$1 OO·Easter Call 5 Reasons to BEACON BOWL: 
LAURA: You're good if you can make
GOING TO ST. LOUIS FOR EASTER second major In theology-tthe ayn­
Tash at 277 5626 1. Hell week is over. 2. $1 beverages. 3. her stutter. You're great it you can make
BREAK? theals of the liberal arts. As
Get to wear fashionable shoes. 4. Noone her squeak. We made her squeak all
We need a ride there! If you can take preregistration for the fall approaches, 
FOR SALE: THE LOFT TO END ALL can bowl well. 5. $1 beverages. 
Friday night. 
two riders, please call Mary at 283-3726. now Is the time to dlacuss the polll·
I LOST/FOUND I 

LOFTS WED-BE THERE! WED-BE THERE! 
We'll share all usual expenses. bllltlaa with E. Gorakl, C.S.C., In 340
Called "the second floor" by its current 
···································· ..... O'Shaghneasy.
owner,

LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219 TOASTMASTERS -MANDATORY
HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Residential
OF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 11 This loft has everything. A siderail to keep HAPPY BIRTHDAY to FRANK MEETING!!! CLUB ELECTIONS WILLCamp in Southwestern Michigan needs you
BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR PINN,a.k.a. BE HELD WED APRIL 8 7PM IN RM.
Program Directors, Instructors, . Unit
PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO from falling down, a steel ladder to keep "MAGIC", "FLEETWOOD" ,and 223 HAYES HEALY. BE THERE! Participate In a lenten prayer service 
Leaders, Counselors, Cooks and Kitchen 
QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY you going "BUMP"II .... . entitled "Christian Prayer Enhanced 
u .........................................................
Aides. Call or write for information and
BRIENZA, 109 WALSH, 283·2699. up, a shelf up top to hold your clock, By Yoga Techniques." Sr. Elena
GRADUATING IN MAY?

applications. Camp Rosenthal, 3384 
candle, etc. FRANK PINN Melita, professor of Religious Stud lea, 
WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOBClawson Rd., Dowagiac, Ml 49047
Lost: A blue Totes umbrella on 3'26 at Must see lo believe. but if you're inter­HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! SEARCH? will lead this service on Wednesday,
(616)424·5272. Call weekdays between
the post office at approximately 10:45 ested call from your friends at St. Mary's. A WORKSHOP FOR ALL GRADUAl· April 8 at 10:00 P.M. In Farley Hell 
8:30 a.m.& 3:00 p.m.. 
a.m. 11 found, please call Tim at x4073. 284-5125 and ask for Gertie. lNG STUDENTS. Chapel. This Is for theology majora Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dam&St. PRESENTED BY JEFF RICE, CAREER and all other Interested peraons.
CHICAGO-BOUND GRADS!!!
Lost one gray daily planner wt> it my life Mary's College AND PLACEMENT SERVICES
Female Roommate needed.

is unplanned and chaotic tosl it sometime Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 7:00 P.M. TOMORROW NIGHT.
2 Br.1'1 bath. Lincoln

Friday. Please call Dan at 1721. 117 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL.
Pari< apt. June 1st. Fear and Loalhtng at Senoir Formal: For more info: call TICKETS Strange Tales from a Strange Land.
Lost one BA·II Texas lnstrmnts Calcula­LEWISITES. Unite to get Scoop backl ................................................................
Pam (312)348·6688,SMC "86 Prostitutes prowl the h1ghways,Otts and
tor guide book approx. one month ago. GRADUATING IN MAY? NEIL DIAMOMD TIX his 10.5.We"d like some limes
If found call Dan at 1721. Scott Dupree'• WHERE ARE YOU IN YOUR JOB 
YOU WANT 'EM, I GOT 'EM Top 10 Motor Oils & please.Ch1cks cannot hold da smoke. The 
SEARCH?

WANTED: rider to Southern Ca. area Tail O'Terror.Orange Whip AttacK of the 
FLOOR & LOWER ARENA Telecopier Uses A WORKSHOP FOR ALL GRADUAT­
after spring game. No expenses just CALL NEIL AT 283-3022 O.B·s,Welcome to the endless fantasy
No.8 ·Exxon ING STUDENTS.
TO THE CHEESEHEAD WHO STOLE share driving. Also v.! price ticket Wed. with lip gloss,
No. 7 ·Send Jake Kline weather report PRESENTED BY JEFF RICE, CAREER etc. Fun and frolic with 
MY GLOVES FROM THE LIBRARY IT'S April 30 from Chic. to LA. Contact Dan radtshes.Upside down Marges,
AND PLACEMENT SERVICES.

DORKS LIKE YOU WHO MAKE THIS at 2319 Augie&T's death wish: 4 liters of Long7:00 p.m. TOMORROW NIGHT.
SCHOOL WHAT IT IS P.S. YOU'RE A lslands,Drinking·it's not fastness, It's
GO PSYCHO! GO PSYCHO!!! at the 117 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL.
GOOF RIDE NEEDED TO NY quickness. Corn Taselling?,Wake up call 
BEAUX ARTS BALL PSYCHODELIC
I PERSONALS
I can leave Wed 4115 for Easter. Call Jim from Heii.Be bery, bery qUite. Don't steal 
that is this friday nile GO PSYCHO... ................................................................
Thirty dollars cash, a bottle of Obsession x1157. my Glory!!,Ya load up,Ya party. Thanks
PSYCHO... PSYCHO... PSYCHO!!! Need a ride to Indiana Unlveralty thlaperfume. a bottle of Perry Ellis perfume, American Express,Kronies and ForeignOAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, weekend? Cell Miriam 11 2887.
a canon camera, and make-up "LOSr Rd. Trip ride offered to Clev. 4110·4112 r.abbies at 6 in the morning. K.B.,rt was
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Need ride to CLEVELAND for Easter. 
................................................................
from a 0402Campus View apartment and for Eas. brk. 255·1508 a blast!!!,XOXO T.
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Debbie 2960 Dear Dawn and Joanna,
Friday night. Now, we are just a little Thanks lor a great time last weekend.
irritated that we give you a place to party The Easter Beagle hides my eggs in HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO We can't wait lor our surprise!
and then you rip us off. You know who Crandall Park, not Leeper Park 
ROCHESTER, NY. FOR EASTER GUitarist looktng to form a rock band
DRUIDS It wouldn't have anyth1ng to do with ayou are and you know where these things Help me get to Youngstown, OH to find 
DRUIDS.. TQ-BE BREAK. CALL TIM AT 1208. All spots available except drummer
cottage, would it? Pete and Chris
belong. We know you can sneak our them. 
Call Andy Therber at 283·3039

things back because you've already I would like a ride there and back, will --.......................
................

Don't forget . the OPENING SENIOR FORMAL
snuck them out. If we see our posses­

share the usual, and can leave 4115. If leading man? My heart flutters at your
CEREMONIES tonight at Stonehenge. CANDIDSsions again there will be no questions 
you can help, call Laura at 272-6014. every move. A lonnome r.1r malden, Dan Strutzel, you basketball god.
Meet on 2nd floor LaFortune at 9:30. ON DISPLAYasked and maybe we will think it is sale JULIET
Friends and beverages welcome. Bring MONDAY-FRIDAY
to have another party. 

I NEED GRAD TIX PLEASE HELPIII SMC,HCC ................................................................ Sorry, Dave.
white sheets just in case robes run out.
······················································••••(••••· X1549 Ken, please respond. Suckles
Sacrifices have been obtained. See ya 2-5LOST: Gray and Blue Nike jacket on 
tonight! ND,LAFORTUNE Jean Zotter, do you hate me because ILyons Basketball Courts somet1me be­
Desperately Seeking Grad. Tics. If You BICTTD smoke?
. The Archdruid 5:30·8:30 P.M . 
tween Saturday morning and Sunday. II 

Think You Might Have Extras Please Call OSOOHR found. please contact Eric at 1695. 
Joe a £1737. Thanks. NMEA
THANKS AGAIN, YOU BIG LUGS Thank You St. JudeReward offered. 
for the "run" on Saturday... Dll 2 RIDERS TO SYRACUSE, NY FOR NN
MIKE THE WONDER KITE will remain Heed Honcho NightFOUND: Set of keys on car-dealer type 
EASTER. Share expenses'driving. Call 1ST SOURCE BANK forever In our minds. G The aport1 kingpins combine for a
key ring. Found Saturday on the Lyons Buy or Ieese a car. 238-2200. Financ­
Amy 283·3723 Klaay, Klaay night or trivia on WVFI-AM 64. Listen
PALM SUNDAY COMMETH...

Courts. Call Eric at 1695 to claim Ing available for all US atltn. 
Farley 244 In at 10 p.m. to get your share of the
Aren't you even a little curious about that 
Ride needed·Akron exit Ohio Tumptke, prlzea. Speaking of Sports
FOUND: 14K GOLD NECKLACE IN hot short story Mark? PALM SUNDAY.. 
can leave Wed af1er 11 :00 Kristen £2702 LARGEST selection of ClifliMonarch PICKUP METHOD .And she did 1t all herself. . . 
PRACTICE ROOM AT CROWLEY. Notes in Michiana! Bu')I'Sell··~extbooks 1. "Come Into the room, alton tl1e bed,CALL 3896 
Need ride to BOSTON EASTER BRK. $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 808 Howard end cover youraelf." e equals 2.718281828459045
BOBS UNITE

Call 284·5459 St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 2. ''Take off an article of clothing."
KEYS AND KEY CHAIN LOST SATUR· Missy Cahill turns 20 today, and she
3. "It'I hard to do at thla angle." Hello. Joe.
DAY NIGHT (3-3()S7) ON REX STREET, Are you going to wants to celebrate with you. Come to 227
JUNIOR&SENIORSGRAD STUDENTS: 4. "lt'a hard to do and reel at the same Whatya know? 
NO AVENUE. OR AT THE COMMONS. STUDENT TO be here ror Lyons lor some melba rounds and
OUTGOING NEEDED time." 5. Now everyone knowa, Laura 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284·4249!!1 shadow dancing. Happy Birthday, Miss!
COORDINATE AND MANAGE ON· SUMMER SCHOOL??? 
PLEASE HELP!!! I ESPECIALLY NEED CAMPUS MARKETING PROMOTION. 

P.M. -WHAT DO YOU SEE IN HER?THE KEYS!!! PART-TIME FLEXIBLE HOURS. CALL If so, The Observer needs your help in Just answer truthfully. 
DONNA!DONNA'DONNAt

DOLORES AT CAMPUS DIMENSIONS, producing some summer issues of the 
Can we tawk?

HAPPY BIRTHDAYl HAPPYLOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN SOMETIME 
1·800·592·2121. newspaper. ...... ··························· Today IS DAVE GLENISTER'S birthday! 
BIRTHDAY!

WED. OR THURS ... GREAT SEN­The jobs are varied and, if you are inter· Shawn: "I can't go to bed yet. You guys Happy 19th!
To the best friend I have. Love, LAW
TIMENTAL VALUE! IF FOUND PLEASE Are you going to ST. LOUIS tor Easter? ested in newspaper training in your spare are having too much fun." Guess WhoCALL ROSE 1319. THANKS! I won't be if you're not! CALL KARA '3021 time, call The Observer offices and ask 
1987 Nazz Competition Winners

Will pay well. for Marl< Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
MONARCHThe Observer 

NOTICE: ATTENTION: ZAHM'S PLAYMATE Loet In Bookstore Game I NEED RIDE TO PITT AREA and Marilyn Ia reaponalble for the waxy at OWNERS
Duke's Bistro tonight! 

White London Fog jacket at Stepan on FOR EASTER. CALL BRIAN,1865 Special Olympics buildup on my Jeana. You are cordially invited to dine at SMC
Come experience N.D.'s Best Band!
NEEDS YOUIII

41;. Tim with 4 Daytona Women on Wed., April Iffound, please call Pete at 3234 or 3926. 8. RSVP 5504 VINO. 5428 SAVAGE
r········-FOR.SALE. 
LisaHOT ICE HOT ICE HOT ICE April 8·10 WE WANT GORGAR TO RUN FOR Congrats. on finding out what Gov't dan boyle ·you are so hot. .. 

noon Haggar Center, SMC BE THERE
I still have not located my Rolex Watch, U.M.O.C. Majors do when they graduate! Love,
Is H True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 
or my high school class ring--Detroit M.B., The Pope, Albert, and Mr. Sock It's easy to be happy
through the U.S. Government? Get the 
Catholic Central. blue stone, gold ring. When there's no cause to lrown
facts today! Call 1-312-742-t 142 Ext. Bass guitar player sought lor rock a[1dThe ring has a lot of value as any class But the person worthwhtle
7316 roll band. Preferably underdassman. Mu· ring does. If you have it, or know some· Mike "GORGAR" Gurdak YAHOO! Is the one who will smile
siCBI interests include: Who, U2, K1nks, one who does, please contact me or the for U.M.O.C. !!! When her sandwhich falls jelly-side down 
2 ROUND TRIP TICKETS TO HAW1, Rush. Zepplin, Van Haten. Cars, Stones, 
rector of Flenner No questions will be BILL "FISH" ...dedicated to those of us who appreciate 
Beatles. Police. Please call Pete at 4644 asked. The inscnption inside ts my full lor UMOCIII the good weeks alter the rain.
FROM ANY INT" AIRPORT. GOOD UN· or Kurt at 3175 101' more information. 
name. ·Eric £1078 TIL DEC. 88. PRICE $50.00. IF INTER· 

ESTED CALL MARY AT 287·3924. 
The Observer Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 9 
Volleyball club prepares for MIVA tourney 
In preparation for the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association Tournament at Chicago this weekend, the Men's Volleyball Club will face Ball State, the eighth-ranked varsity team in the nation, tonight at 7:30 in the ACC Pit. 
Ball State is one of three teams on Notre Dame's schedule that is ranked in the Top 20, the other two being Ohio State and IUPU-Fort Wayne. 
In an earlier match at Ball State, the Cardinals swept Notre Dame in three games. The Irish are 0-3 against varsity competition, but have a 20-5 record overall. 
The Ball State match should prepare Notre Dame for this weekend's MIVA Tournament. Held at Wheaton College in Chicago, the tournament will feature sixteen club teams from the Midwest. Notre Dame is hoping to reclaim the championship that Wisconsin took last year. 
"Wisconsin is our big team--they won it last year, and they're really tough," said Club Secretary Steve Kranz. "It should work out that we should be seeded opposite each other, and if everything goes well, we'll meet them in the finals. That could go either way, and there's no room for mistakes." 
Notre Dame and Wisconsin have not faced each other so far this year. 
In their only match last week, the Irish swept past Hope College in three straight games. Despite the easy victory, the team was not satisfied with its. 9lay. 
"We didn't play well, but we played well enough that we pretty much smoked them," said Kranz. "It was nice that we got a lot of people off the bench to play. We were trying to use it as a tuneup for the Ball State match, but it didn't work out that way because we didn't play well at all." 
• 

A week ago, the Rowing Club was looking forward to competing in its first regatta at Augusta, Ga., 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 


against Oxford and Ivy League schools over the weekend. But as it stands now, the club members are still waiting to compete in Augusta. 
On its way to Augusta, the team got stuck in a snowstorm in Tennessee and was never able to make it to the race. 
With the ordeal behind them, the Irish will host the Notre Dame regatta this Saturday on the St. Joseph's River in Mishawaka. Competitions will start at 8 a.m. It will be Notre Dame's last regatta before the Midwest Regionals in Madison, Wis. 
The field for the regatta will include the Univer­sity of Chicago, Michigan, Northwestern and Mic­higan State. 
"There are probably about seven or eight schools coming plus us," said Club President John Ralph. "Michigan is an awfully good team, and is usually our main competition, and Northwestern has been getting better every year. If we beat Michigan, it will set us up well for the Midwest Regionals. It will give us an indication of how much we have to work on. Michigan is our main competition, but all the Big Ten schools have pretty good programs." 
• 

After defeating St. Bonaventure in the season opener, the Rugby Club lost its first match of the spring last Saturday in Chicago. The South Side Irish beat Notre Dame's A side, 29-18. 
Notre Dame's B side lost, 12-0, and the C side won, 15-7. 
"I thought we played a solid game," said Club President Quentin Williams. "Our receivers ran pretty good routes, and we couldn't hook up with them because there were 45 mile-per-hour winds out there. They had a serious size advantage on us too." 
Notre Dame will have its first home match of the spring this •.veekend. The Irish meet Northwestern Saturday at 1 p.m. at Stepan Field. 
Ball State gets revenge over Irish men's tennis team, 7-2 
By THERESA KELLY defeating the Irish 7-2 in Sports Writer Muncie, Ind. The Cardinals got back at the Irish for their The Ball State men's tennis surprise 5-4 victory last season. team got its revenge on the "Ball State has a real fine Notre Dame team Saturday, team this year," said Irish 
: Anyone interested in being an Ob-• + server Saint Mary's Photographer + 
+ please attend a mandatory meeting ++
+Thursday at 7p.m., Room 304 Haggar++or contact Marilyn Benchik at 284-+ +4073 or 239-5313. + +••••••••••••••••••• 
How to start 
your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
Mter taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school oftheir choice and going on to practice with top la·n firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The 
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
one pre-law course that determines the 
course ofyour law career. 
LSAT &15-'87 f KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, !N 46637 
PHONE 219/272-4135 
*CLASSES *INDEPENDENT STUDY 
*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS *TRANSFER D I SCOL'NTS! 
head coach Tom Fallon. "They just outplayed us in most of the matches. 
"We did play well in two spots. We got great results from Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs." 
Walsh beat Ball State's Mike Raymond in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2, and Daggs had a tougher time with his Cardinal foe, but also won in two sets, 6-4, 7-6. 
Irish number·-one player Tim Carr lost a tough match to the top Cardinal player. Carr won the first set, but his opponent, Todd Hershey, pulled out the next two, including a 7-6 tie­breaker in the third. 
Notre Dame's number-two man, sophomore Brian Kalbas, also went to three sets in his match, and like his teammate, he won the first set 2-6, but lost the next two, 6-3 and 6-4. 
Mike Wallace returned to ac­tion in the thrird spot for the Irish after being sidelined by a shoulder injury, but his return was marred by a loss to Ball State's Martin Reist in straight sets, 6-0, 6-1. Irish teammate Dave Reiter also lost in two to Cardinal Mike Raymond, 6-3, 6-2. . 
Carr and Reiter lost their number-one doubles match, 6­3, 6-2 and 6-3, to Ball State, as did the teams of Walsh and Daggs (6-4, 6-2) and Wallace 
and Sean O'Brien (6-3 and 6-3). The loss put the Irish season mark at 13-9. 
"We played about as well as could be expected," said Fal­lon. "We were beaten by a good team. Let's hope they got us into shape for Bowling Green.'' 
The Irish travel to Bowling Green today for a match. But they will be without Tony Cahill, who is injured. "We are looking at having a real good match," said Fallon. "Bowling Green may be a little stronger this year, and we are a little weak right now with Tony Cahill still out, but it should be a good match." 

Irish lose to OSU, SlUE; down Wheaton 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The anticipated confronta­tion against Ohio State was not the only match to end up in the loss column for the Notre Dame women's tennis team. The Irish also fell to SIU-Edwardsville, the defending NCAA Division II champions. 

The two losses were split by a 6-0 win against Wheaton Col­lege, raising the Irish season record to 5-7. 
The Irish opened play Friday with a frustrating 5-4 loss to the Buckeyes. Alice Lohrer and 
~---~.d
!L APPLICATToNS 

~A~ AaE No~ AVAILABLF: AI TilE" OFHc€ Of 51VDeJI ALT\ vrnE5J TutRt> ~ LAhRTVtJ€ J ~ 
APPLICATioNS ARE VUE 
TtA?.S~v, Am• L 14 

Resa Kelly chalked up singles victories for Notre Dame, while Ohio State won matches against Michelle Dasso, Step­hanie Tolstedt and Natalie Il­lig. Senior Tammy Scmidt's 6­1, 2-6, 6-3 win over Kristin Peterson tied the score at 4-4 before the Irish lost the final match. 
In doubles action, the Irish took only one match. Dasso and Lohrer defeated Yvonne Loh­rer and Jodi Saunders, 6-3,7-5. 
"That was the best match we've ever played together," said Lohrer. "I was excited playing against my sister, and everything seemed to click for Michelle and I." 
After defeating Wheaton Col­lege on Saturday afternoon, the Irish then had to face SIU­Edwardsville. 
Not only did the Irish come up on the short end of the three matches that went three sets, but they weren't able to take any match from the defending champs. 
"I thought we played better against SIU than we did against Ohio State," spid Gelfman. "They have a strong team and they were able to close out on the three-all points.'' 
Correction 
A name in a photo caption on page 14 of yesterday's issue was incorrectly spelled. The name should be Ned Bolcar. 


~---------­
Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 10
The Observer 

The race to the final216 continues tomorrow ... 
l ! 
I 
i 
I 
l 
I 
l 
~ 
Monday's Raaulta 

Stepan 1 Ogra over Rogues by 9 Skoad Men over We Could Play lor Wagner by 12 Gary's Kids over Team No. 397 by 10 Friends of the Sea Otter over Team No. 333 by 
10 

Stepan 2 The Masons over Team No. 372 by 7 We Better Play at Stepan ... over Society of Men Engineers by 4 Team No. 313 over Ridiculous Relationship With Jackie by forfeit The Return of the NBA Renegades over Doctor Hasn't Retired Yet by 2 
Stepan 3 Liberace, Len Bias & 3 Other Guys Who... over Team No. 512 by 17 What the Puck over Wook Masters by 15 Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers over Lee's Barbecue by 17 Still Clueless over Pi Mesons by 11 
Stepan 4 Dr. Huck and Fair Pies over Chaotic Oscillations IV by 12 Actus Reus over Team No. 312 by 4 Bon Jovi (Uvin' on a Prayer) over Nigerian Head Banging X-Men by 1 0 Team No. 451 over Grape Ape and Four Big Bananas: 25-23 
Stepan 5 Holy Rollers over When She's Open She'll Take the Shot by 5 The Legend of the Bearded Smurf over Eddy & the Cruiser by forfeit We Pack Extra Baggage over A Coach, A Wad, A Cat, and ... by 15 Crocodile Jungee over Towe Toppers by 12 
Stepan 6 Team No. 376 over The Troll, Stumphead, and the Rest of the Freak Show by 12 Fat NO Chicks, Iran, & 3 Other Unexplained Scandals over Scum Bubbles by 3 Revenge of the Molten Lavae & the 4 Hot Rocks over lnnsbruck Irish by 8 Team No. 334 over 4 Macho Meats & a Tostada Grande by 2 
Bookatora 9 Ex-NBA Quasi Scholars & Jocks over Vig, Bick & Theiny by 15 Jus' Tofu over Screaming Midgets from Hell by 
15 

Oliver North & 4 Other Innocent Guys over Big 
Fat Chicks: 22-20 Invisible Touch over A Chimp & His 4 Bananas by 11 
Bookatora 10 Corporate Raiders over 4 Cool Guys and a Sooner by 9 Skid Row Swallows over Herbie & 4 Other Mis­!its by 14 Gee, I Don't Know over Ex-NBA Proposition 48 Intellectuals by 10 Team No. 211 over Fire Eaters! A Quest lor Fire by 10 
Lyona 11 Armed and Dangerous VI over Furious Five by 
18 

Freddie P. Come Home over If You Don't Like Us, You Don't Like Guys by 15 Mr. & Mrs. Marty Bullfrog over No, We Can't Dunk by 14 Open Hoop Shooters over 4 Ex-Cheerleaders and a Nerd by forfeit 
Lyona 12 

Team No. 206 over We Don't Need One by 2 The Trichotomies over 5 Girls From Idaho with ... by 10 Spuds over Team No. 213 by 6 If That's All We Get... over The Ordered Chaos of the Human Psyche by 3 
Tueaday'a Games Stepan 1 4:00-Team No. 651 vs Team No. 172 
4:45 -Toil and Trouble vs East Side Runners 
5:30 -Team No. 488 vs The Dunking Chefs of NOH 6:15-Dripping T.P.S. vs Captain Kirk & 4 Other Guys 
Stepan 2 

4:00 ·Yacht Club vs Eye of the Hoops Hurricane 4:45 -Team No. 438 vs You Do Chicks, Oui Do Doorknobs 
5:30 -Father King & 4 Other Guys... vs 5 Guys Who Score 6:15-Team No. 341 vs Lay Up & Score... 
Stepan 3 4:00-Team No. 164 vs Mr. Cheerio's Breakfast Club 
4:45 -Aying Irish vs Team No. 346 
5:30 -I Need a Lover Who Won't. .. vs Bean Patch Kids 6:15-McNahoonies vs Achilles 
Stepan 4 
4:00 -Team Nol 186 vs Kerry & the Excited States 
4:45 -The Team That Time Forgot vs A Guinea Pig Is Not a Pig... 5:30-Team No. 660 vs Dead Chicks Don't Say NO 
6:15 -Love Fest Lives vs Fisher Firemen Stepan 5 
4:00 -Skip Holtz...Biocks vs Bud Dwyer & 4 Other Sharpshooter 
4:45 -5 Guys...Carroll vs T-Minus 8 Minutes 
5:30 -Hoosier Lawyers vs Ed Smerciak, Last Hurrah 
6: 15 -Uncontrollable Flatuents From Hell vs Team No. 222 
Stepan 6 4:00-Team No. 295 vs Team No. 178 4:45-Blind Ambition vs Team No. 529 
5:30 -Willie & the Wanna Bees vs Team No. 234 6:15-Really Cool Guys vs 5 Girls Who Never Touched a Basketball 
Bookstore 9 
4:00 -5 Guys Who Can't Penetrate vs CNN Cheap & Meaningless 
4:45 -Raging Meatases vs Crime Against Na­
ture 5:30-Get Your Tongue Out Ot ... vs Ivan Boesky & the Insiders 
6:15 -Priest, Nerd & 3 Dudes vs Future's So Bright 
Bookstore 10 4:00-4 Slamma Jamma vs We Play Nerf Hoops 
4:45 -A Cat Eater vs Amerika's Team 
5:30 -Fa~o Frolics vs Team No. 369 6:15-Dr. Arkie vs Vegas & the Cheesebags 
Lyons 11 4:00-Sell Appointed Fire Marshalls vs Chicks &Booze 4:45-Oui B II vs Mythological Gods of Love 
5:30 -Otis Hurts vs Total Freshness 
6: 15 -Fernidand Marcos & 4 Other Lover of Democracy vs Team No. 193 
Lyons 12 
4:00 -Jimbo's Bail Bondsmen vs Disgrace 
4:45 -Boxer Blowouts vs Ten Guys Nobody Likes 
5:30 -Chns Rawson vs Where Evil Is 6:15-We Eat Cannibals vs John Holmes & the Four 7 -Footers 


ND AVE APTS Now Renting for Fall 


Completely Furnished, Balconies, 
Off Street Parking, Laundry, On Site Management & Maintenance. All Deluxe Features. Ask about our Special Summer Rates 
Office at 820 NO AVE. 234-6647 Protected b Pinkerton Securit 

AN TOSTAL 1987--CATCH THE FEVER! 
l \ 
SIGNUPS FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENTS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE AN TOSTAL OFFICE TONIGHT, APRIL 
I 
6TH & 7TH, FROM 7 PM UNTIL 9 PM. 
Event Day Held 
MUD VOLLEYBALL WEEKLONG 
KISSER WEEKLONG ULTIMATE FRISBEE WEEKLONG GOLF TOURNEY TUESDAY SLAM DUNK WEDNESDAY AIR BAND WEDNESDAY 
NDSMC CHALLENGE WEDNESDAY CANOE RACES THURSDAY BIKE RACE THURSDAY BEAT THE CLOCK THURSDAY IMPERSONATIONS FRIDAY LOUD MOUTH FRIDAY SERF AUCTION FRIDAY MUD PILLOW FIGHTS SATURDAY RECESS-PIZZA EATING SATURDAY 
Restrictions! 
Qualifications 
7 per, 2 females min, 1 varsity max, $5 fee 1 00 males, 1 00 females Minimum 7 per team Twosomes, no golf team members 10 on 9 ft rim, 10 on 10 ft rim 15 acts Bring your own bicycle 15 of 2 men, 15 of 2 women, 15 co-ed Serious and not-serious divisions 10 teams of 4 (2 males and 2 females) Limited to first 20 Limited to first 20 Limited to 20 people or groups Unlimited Limited to first 15 
QUESTIONS? CALL THE AN TOSTAL OFFICE WEEK· DAYS 3 PM TO 5 PM. AN TOSTAL IS APRIL 21-26. 
239-6908 


,_ 
.. 


Tuesday, April 7, 1987 -page 11 


WHAT'S  HAPPENING  THIS  WEEK:  
WEDNESDAY:  "GREEN BERETS"  FRIDAY:  "TOP GUN"  
THURSDAY:  "GREEN BERETS" "TOP GUNII  HISTORY OF THE BLUES 101 COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL  
SATURDAY: COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 22 CAVE GODS  
ALL EVENTS SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITES BOARD  

Bloom County 

Beer Nuts 

LA<;T WEEK SUICLASTIC 1'1A6A'Z IN£ CAUS.E!J AN UP­
71-1[ "cuNNING UNG/JISTS"L[A[J
AND IN OUR FOLL OF 
STUD£fli/S TO S£(; Wf.l/()1 
"/¥WI[l 800NE,F4Tf.I£R .SORIN, 
ROAR IN Til£ ND./ST.HARYS
T£A.M HAD TH£ E£5( uN­
AND 7J.IR£{ oTJ.IER GuYS M-10 
C0/'1/'IIJNITY B'/ fROf09NG
UK£ TO EAT 8£AV£R IN TJ.I£
CENSOREI) NAM£ tN l?COK­
STVR£ ~HBALL ... 
.--I 

t1AR6tN. tN OTI-IER 
N£WS-
/ 
I 
'9 0 

, 
I 
/ t)~ "l"l'f 1\1-q 1..,-tl-l\f 
...,.,..,~ 

_. (!" :
I I !
-' 
Campus 
9:00 -4:30 p.m.: Academic Apparel Rental for faculty and graduating seniors, Hammes Book Store 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute (Brown Bag) Seminar "The Chilean Political Class," by Juan Gabriel Valdes, ILET Chile, and Kellogg Institute, 131 Decio 
1:00 p.m.: Baseball ND vs. Michigan State (2-7 inn.), Jake Klein Field 
3:00p.m.: Varsity Softball SMC vs. Val­paraiso University, SMC Softball field 
3:30 p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemical Engineering "Engineered Membranes and Membrane Engineering," by Prof. John A. Quinn, University of Pennsylva­nia, 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:00p.m.: Concert, Notre Dame Wood­wind Ensemble, sponsored by the ND Dept. of Music, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
4:30 p.m.: College of Science Lectures in Biological Sciences "The Quest for Ecological Rules: The Contributions of Serendipity and Human Intervention,'' by Prof. Robert T. Paine, University of Washington, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
6:15p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop "How to Manage your Anger, Part One," by Tom Thompson, M.A., In­tern, UND Counseling Center, 122 Haggar Hall 
6:30p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop "Rape Prevention: A Common Sense Approach,'' by Laura Burns, Coun­selor. UND Counseling Center, 117 Haggar 
7:00p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop for Seniors, Theme: Relocation -Making the Move. Topic: Finding A Plac' to Live; speaker: John Grcich, Smith­Zeisz Real Estate Company. Topic: You and the Community; speaker; Mark Rodriques, So. Bend Chamber of Com­merce, Topic: Being a Notre Dame Alumnus; speaker: Charles Lennon, Ex­ec. Dir., ND Alumni Assoc. CSC 
TI-IATS(JI'f[ OF TH£ .STUtENTS tV 7H£S£ CAI'1f'VSES MIG/IT 15£ KTIV{ I-IERETOSOU/llS.. . 
9 
Berke Breathed 
Mark Williams 
... TJ.I[ OFF!(£ Uf <:;Tt/DfN1 I'<TIVIT!£) /S R£fbRT£() TO BE lAK!!tiG )T[P5 TO . 
HALT J/.11) .t.L4/2M!NG TR£N/). I 
/! '~­
~~ 

7:30 
p.m.: Meeting and election of offi­cers, Spanish Club, CSC 

7:30 
p.m: Committee for Dialogue on Education Discussion Theme: Education for Justice: Is it Possible? Speaker: Rev Edward A. Malloy, CSC, President-elect, University of Notre Dame. Student Panel: Michael Murdock, The Undergraduate Experience; Marlene deGroot, The Graduate Student's Dilemma; Sophia Twarog, Social Activism and Academics; and Ramzi Bualuan, International Stu­dent's View. Washington Hall, tickets available, free of chal'ge on Tuesday, April7, at Washington Hall between 11:00 a.m. and 4:00p.m. 

7:30 
p.m.: Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Annual Business Meeting. Speaker: Lou Holtz, Head Football Coach, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 


7:30p.m.: International Festivafspon­sored by the International Student Organi­zation, Washington Hall 
8:00 p.m.: Theology Department Lec­ture "The Development of the Passion Narrative," by Prof. John Dominic Cros­san, DePaul University, Library Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 

Oriental Pork Loin Manicotti Seafood Chow Mein Monterey Muffin Melt 
Saint Mary's 

Foot Long Hot Dogs Cheese Souffle Grilled Pork Chops Deli Bar 
0 
' 

The Daily Cross-word 

ACROSS 1 Bottle part 5 Speaks 
bitterly 10 News bit 14 Hautboy 15 Scarf style 16 St. Philip ­17 Conservative 18 Feed the fire 19 Dart about 20 "Better beans 
-" (start of 
Aesop quote) 23 Khayyam 24 US spy org. 25 Attack 28 Mover to 
another land 33 Geometric line 34 Reiner and 
Sandburg 35 The lion 36 Deer 37 Attitudinizes 38 Wound 
reminder 39 Pitcher's stat. 40 Had affec­
tion for 41 To pieces 42 Grooved 44 Cut away 
blubber 45 Nothing 46 Persia now 47 More of quote 55 Hawkeye state 56 Neap and ebb 57 Holm oak 58 Blow a horn 59 ~ Boothe Luce 60 Zola heroine 61 Otiose 62 "Iliad" man 63 Small weight 
DOWN 1 Part of n.b. 2 Dark poet­
ically 3 Rope 4 Typewriter 
part 5 Scamp 6 Fur merchant 
Far Side Gary Larson 

In the Old West, vegetarians were often shot with little provocation. 
~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

7 Sacred image  
8 God of tire  
9 Design  
patterns  
10 End of quote  
11 Tissue  
12 Newsman  
Sevareid  
13 Tiny arachnid  
21 Included with  
22 Swine  
25 Yearns  
26 Something  
to lose?  
27 Sea depth  
instrument  
28 Facilitated  
29 TV horse  
30 Northern  4/1/87  
highway  40 Secular  49 Militarily  
31 Approaches  41 Aida or Ladd  truant  
32 Rich cake  43 Congenital  50 Watt or gram  
34 Sheltered nook  44 Mich. town  prefix  
37 Indian  46 Rhone  51 Round cheese  
festival 38 Using up money  tributary 47 Small monkey 48 Bonnet  52 Winglike 53 Soviet river 54 Test  


.,. 
1 

, ~ 
. " 
I 
I 
I I I I 

: ~ , ~ '1 
I \ i(
I I , I.' I I I
I , I 
~ ' 
I \ 
"L 
--.............._....,._...._ 
The first-round of action continues with hard­fought battles on the Bookstore Court (above) 
Snow, not Wooster, stops lacrosse 
By CHRIS DALLAVO The game probably will not be weekend as the Irish open their Sports Writer rescheduled, due to the dis­home season. The Irish have tance factor. never lost to Kenyon, but now 
The Notre Dame lacrosse "It's always better to have a is not the time for com­team was shut out this chance at another win,'' noted placency, as the Lords will weekend, not by Wooster, its O'Leary, "but now we have bring,a tough, young team into scheduled opponent, but by Old time to work on other things." . South Bend. Man Winter. The game was There is also time to nurse a canceled after fourteen inches couple of injuries. Captain "They've always given us a of snow buried Wooster, Ohio, Dave O'Neill has a sore scare," said O'Leary, "and we over the weekend. shoulder, but is expected to be definitely cannot take them 
"The thing that worries me," ready to play this weekend. The lightly, or we'll be 2-3 after Sat­said Notre Dame head coach prognosis i~ not so good for urday.'' Rich O'Leary, "is that we will midfielder John Burtis, who The leading scorer for Notre 
~­
have had two weeks off be­reinjured the thigh which has Dame this year is senior at­
\' tween games. It's real easy to kept him out of action this year. 'tackman John McLachlan, who lose intensity over such a long He will miss at least another has nirie goals and eleven as­period of time." week, including the Kenyon sists for 20 points in the first 
Needless to say, the Irish game this Saturday. four games. John Olmstead is weren't too happy about second with thirteen points, fol­driving seven hours on a bus to Speaking of the Lords of lowed by Tom Lanahan and Jim watch it snow. Mter all, they Kenyon College, they visit the Shields with eight points
t 
can get that here in South Bend. University of Notre Dame this apiece. 
Sugar Ray completes comeback 
I· 
Associated Press for Leonard. belt. The International Boxing LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Sugar The Associated Press Federation didn't sanction the
' Ray Leonard returned to the favored Hagler, 117-112. fight and will declare the title ring in spectacular fashion "I see myself taking him vacant. The World Boxing As­after a three-year layoff and out,'' Leonard said of a dream sociation has stripped Hagler upset Marvelous Marvin he had in the days before the of the title. Hagler Monday night to be­fight. Leonard couldn't take Leonard, fighting for only the come middleweight champion. him out, but he did what the second time since his last un­
Leonard won the 12-round oddsmakers gave him little disputed welterweight title bout on a split decision to be­chance to do. fight in Feb. 1982, came out cir­
! 
come boxing's lOth triple Hagler, losing for the first cling and made Hagler miss
~ 
t 
} champion. time in 38 fights, dating to 1976, badly in the first four rounds. Leonard circled and im­was a 2 12-1 favorite. Then in the fifth, Hagler landed 
i pressed judges with flurries in "He, to me, is still the cham­some head shots and hurt the late rounds in one of the pion,'' the jubilant Leonard Leonard with a left to the head. great comeback stories in said in the ring after the fight Throughout the fight, the boxing history, although some as a sellout throng of 15,366 in stalking Hagler seemed to land thought the aggressive Hagler an outdoor arena at Caesars the harder shots. But Leonard, had an edge. Palace cheered him on. looking very tired from the 
Judge Lou Filippo scored it "I didn't want the belt. I just sixth through lOth rounds, 115-113 for Hagler while judge wanted to beat him." never quit fighting, landing Dave Moretti saw it 115-113 and The only belt Leonard will several combinations although JoJo Guerra had it 118-110, both get is the World Boxing Council they seemed to lack sting. 
.. 
-----~---·-­

The Observer I Jim Carroll and not-so-hard-fought skirmishes such as those highlighted by Brian O'Gara at right. 
Tuesday, April 7, 1987-page 12 

Midgets, blood, tickets highlight Bookstore 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Warmer weather and light winds greeted Bookstore Basketball XVI teams Monday as 40 teams advanced to the second round of the tournament. 
Screaming midgets, blood and speeding tickets were the words of the day yesterday, as several exciting performances were turned in. 
Jus' Tofu, a team which has reached the Final 16 for two con­secutive years, fought off a scrappy Screaming Midgets From Hell team in one of the tournament's biggest mismatches to date, 21-6. The Midgets, who were led by a 5-8 center and two 5-4 guards, played a relentless defense on Tofu, and took advantage of the almost non-existant wind to sink several long shots. Had the three-point rule been initiated into Bookstore this year, this could have been a dandy one, folks. 

Bookstore Basketball 
XVI 
Tofu's height advantage and smooth play together proved far too much for the Midgets, who had several fans screaming for an upset. Or would it have been an upset? 
"It's a surprising loss," said Kevin O'Meara of the Midgets. "We controlled the boards but they just co.uldn't miss the outside shots." 
In a hard-fought battle on Bookstore 9, Oliver North and 4 Other Innocent Guys slid by Big Fat Chicks On A Frictionless Surface, 22-20. North's Ken Cavanaugh put an end to this brouhaha by hitting two long jumpers for points 21 and 22. Several players came away with blood-spotted jerseys, as the goings got rough near the end of the game. 
"We'll need a blood transfusion but we'll be out here for the next game," said North team member and second-year MBA student Mark Brostowski. 
Two teams which have logged the most miles in this tournament are Ex-NBA Quasi Scholars and Jocks, and Ex-MBA Proposition 48 Intellectuals. Both squads are made up of professional busines­smen who are enrolled in the Executive MBA program and com­mute to Notre Dame once a week for their classes. They made the journey here yesterday from their homes and professions in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and Hammond, Indiana to play in Bookstore Basketball. 
Ex-NBA came away with a win, 21-6, over Vig, Bick and Theiny, but Ex-MBA dropped their contest to Gee, I Don't Know, 21-11. 
Bart Timm of the Ex-MBA team drove over six hours from Cleveland, and picked up a speeding ticket along the way. His bad luck continued in the game as he shot 0-of-7 from the field. 
Ken Nelson led the Ex-NBA team with a 5-of-9 performance in their victory. Nelson is also the Executive MBA Class President and is the only student in the program holding a 4.0 GPA. Academics and athletics at its best. 
In other action yesterday, Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers grilled Lee's BBQ (not to be confused with last year's champions with a similiar name), 21-4. Mr. Coffey was led by Erik Jaworski, an all-Bookstore selection last year, who hit 8-of-11 shots. Bon Jovi (Livin' On A Prayer) rocked the Nigerian Head Baging X-Men, 21-11, as Tom Geyer poured in all21 of his team's points. 
"That weight-lifting program that Tom has been on has added a new dimension to his game," said scorekeeper John Murphy. 
Today marks the final day of the first round of the tournament as another 80 teams are scheduled for action. The field will then be narrowed to 256 going into Thursday's second-round action. 

AP Photo Sugar Ray Leonard upset Marvelous Marvin Hagler last night in a split decision. 

