------·· ----------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~----­
The Truth -page 7· 

VOL. XXI, NO. 71 FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1987 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The statue of the Virgin Mary atop the dome and one of Jesuf.: are blanketed 
The Observer.tBrian Mast Color provided by Anbeuser-Buscb, Inc. 
by the newly fallen snow of this winter wonderland. 
Off-campus students victims of fire, burglary 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
A fire gutted the Turtle Creek apart­ment of a Notre Dame student Thursday morning, causing $35,000 damage. 
"It took 45 minutes to get (the fire) under control. I'd say it happened at 
10:30 (Thursday morning)," said South Bend Fire Chief George Giory. "Other apartments sustained water and smoke damage. 
"The fire report said the fire was caused by paper products on the stove," said Giory. Fire Inspector John Nelson said "The burners were in the 'on' position." 
Turtle Creek Apartments Manager Pat Hutchings said neither of the apart­ment's residents, Joseph Sullivan, a Notre Dame sophomore, and his bro­ther Martin, was in the apartment at the time the fire occurred. 
Hutchings said the apartment is "completely gutted," adding, "Everything is under control. There's no major problems other than I feel bad for the boys." 
Hutchings said both residents will be placed in another Turtle Creek apart­ment. The residents could not be con­tacted for comment. 
In other off-campus incidents, four burglaries were reported by Notre Dame students, according to Sergeant John McCullum, east sector coordina­tor for the South Bend Police Depart­ment. 
McCullum said stereo and camera equipment was stolen in the burglaries, which occurred at four different off­campus locations. "It's hard to say when the burglaries occurred," McCul­lum said. "The students were gone for two weeks and the burglaries weren't reported until the students returned. 
"There were a couple that got hit with a big loss, but not like five months ago when the students first came to school," McCullum said. "I was surprised at the amount of burglaries this year, it's way down. At the begin­ning of the year is when most (burglaries) occur, that's the trend of the past," said McCullum. 
According to McCullum, the South Bend Police Department advises stu­dents living off-campus to put away valuables during extended vacations. 
The Off-Campus Housing Office said security and safety information is given to all off-campus residents. The office said more than 3,000 undergraduate and graduate students live off-campus. 
Director of Notre Dame Security Rex Rakow said one on-campus room was entered during the Christmas break. According to Rakow, Security is inves­tigating the incident. 
5 halls extend parietals hours 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST and LISA DAVISON Staff Reporters 
Five residence hall rectors have opted to extend Sunday parietals to 
12:30 a.m., expressing approval for the Student Senate effort to increase the time available for socializing after late hall masses. 
Students in Dillon, Morrissey, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward, and Zahm halls will begin extending their hours this Sunday, while 15 other dorms 
Curran decides not to try to teach his classes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Suspended theologian Charles Curran said Thursday he had "blinked" in his face-off with Roman Cath­olic leaders, dropping his ef­forts to teach this spring at Catholic University of America out of fear further pushing could hurt his students and Catholic education in general. 
Curran, a priest under Vatican fire for his dissenting views on sexual ethics, said earlier this week he would show up to teach his classes at the start of the school's new term Thursday despite his suspen­sion Monday. 
However, he said, he decided against that action after the university's chancellor, Wash­ington Archbishop James Hick­ey, threatened to invoke a church-law provision that Cur­ran said might have spread the controversy to other Catholic universities. 
"If there is a story today, it is that Curran blinked," the theology professor told reporters. About 200 students also attended the campus news conference, interrupting occa­sionally with applause for the popular professor. 
Curran said he would not give up his longer-term efforts to win reinstatement, and he said those efforts might well end up in civil court. 
But he said he would "not make my students hostages in this ongoing controversy" by teaching them in classes that were officially canceled by the university on Wednesday and therefore might well provide no official credit. 

In addition, he said he wanted to avoid provoking Hickey into invoking the church's "canon 812," a provi­sion that states: 
"It is necessary that those who teach theological disci­plines in any institute of higher studies have a mandate from the competent ecclesiastical authority.'' 
Curran's suspension was not based on that canon but on a declaration by the Vatican last summer that he was unfit to teach as a Catholic theologian because of what Pope John Paul II and other church leaders believe are too liberal views on birth control, homosexuality, divorce and other sexual issues. 
The Vatican declaration is important in Curran's case be­
cause Catholic University, the only Vatican-chartered college 
in  this  country,  requires  a  
church-sponsored  "canonical  
mission"  -or  theologian's  

license -for teachers in certain programs. 
Similar requirements do not exist at independent Catholic universities, such as Notre Dame, Georgetown and others. And the broader church author­ity over professors spelled out in canon 812 has not been in­voked at any U.S. catholic school since it was issued as part of a general revision of church law four years ago. 
Leaders of many U.S. catho­lic colleges are vigorously op­posing Vatican efforts to ex­pand on the brief canon in more elaborate regulations. 
await decisions by their hall staffs. 
The rectors of Alumni, Pangborn and Sorin halls said they have chosen not to approve the extension, a decision which was left open to rectors after ap­proval by both the Campus Life Council and Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. 
Father George Rozum, Alumni Hall rector, whose dorm holds one of the two 11 p.m. Sunday masses, said the parie­tals extension is unnecessary. 
seePARIETALS, page 4 
New activity 
director takes 
over for Neal 
By KEVIN BECKER Managing Editor 
Joe Cassidy will assume his duties as Student Activi­ties Director on February 9 replacing Joni Neal who vacates her post today, ac­cording to Cassidy. 
As student activities direc­tor, Cassidy reports to Fa­ther David Tyson, vice pres­ident of student affairs. · Cassidy will be respon­sible for all campus clubs and organizations and their activities. His other respon­
see DIRECTOR, page 4 

~----~-----~ 
The Observer 
Friday, January 16, 1987-page 2 
In Brief Lack of self-confidence leads 
Mating season was over weeks ago but a wild moose in Shrewsbury, Vt. is still making cow eyes at a brown and white Hereford named Jessica. When farm owner Larry Carrara spreads grain for his cows, the moose stands up and nudges a few cows aside to let Jessica eat. "He always watches out for Jessica," Carrara said. "He's acting like he likes it here. He's playing like a big shot," game warden Donald Gallus said Tuesday, 40 days after the love-struck moose wandered in to civilization. -Associated Press 
Father Theodore Hesburgh and Father Edmund Joyce, established a $50,000 ~cholarship in their names at the University. The undergraduate scholarship was endowed· by the National Football Foundation and Hall Of Fame, Inc. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Debate Team sent two teams to last weekend's debate at Miami University. The team of Paul Bielski and John Failor won fifth place in the preliminaries. And the team of Rob Hennig and Mike Monberg had a 7-1 record in the preliminaries and won third place in the semi-finals. Hennig also won a seventh place speaker award. -The Observer 
The University of Colorado has lifted its ban on sex in the dorms. After considerable protest about the wording in a handbook that prohibited residents from "sleeping together", or "going to bed with another person", the campus dorm council rewrote the rule to suggest that sex is acceptable if it does not upset others' privacy. -The Observer 
Ray Bolger, who as the brave but stumbling scarecrow helped lead Dorothy back home in the 1939 movie "Wizard of Oz," died Thursday of cancer. He was 83. Bolger, the last survivor of the troupe that marched down the Yellow Brick Road, died at a Los Angeles nursing home, said family spokesman Barry Greenberg. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Father William Lewers, director of the United States Catholic Conference Office Of International Justice And Peace, will be returning to the University Of Notre Dame law faculty as a professor of law in August 1988. Lewers, who holds an honorary doctor of law and is a trustee of the university, has been at his usee position since 1983. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and in Briefs can be submitted to the day editor at the Observer office on the third floor of LaF'lrtune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 
Weather 
God-Country, Notre Dame. Or is it God, Country, Notre Dame? You decide. But first consider the weather. Mid 20s today and tomorrow, down to 10 tonight and generally clear. Has God abandoned this country or what? -Associated Press 


---Ihe~Obse~er___= 
Design Editor.... Mark McLaughlin VIewpoint Layout ........................ .. 
Design Assistant..... Tom Schiesser ........................ Ann Marie Durning 
Typesetters .................... Mike Buc Accent Copy Editor ...................... . 
............................... Chris Reardon .............................. Gertie Wimmer 
Accent Layout....... Ann Biddlecom News Editor ................... Jim Riley Typist ....................... Esther Ivory Copy Editor................ Bud Luepke ND Day Editor ....... James Winkler Sports Copy Editor . Marty Strasen SMC Day Editor ........ Karin Radar VIewpoint Copy Editor.................. . Ad Design ..... Mary Carol Creadon .............................. Gertie Wimmer Photographer ............... Greg Kohs 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
The Obtener (USPS S99 1-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S1S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obsen•er is a member of The Aaodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


to loss of many opportunities 
"I don't know what I'm going to do with my life. At this point, I don't feel like I can do anything right," said a friend of mine from back Kevin home during a conversation over break. 

Becker
I felt bad whenever my friend and I talked over the Christmas vacation. Here was a person Managing Editor that I cared for deeply and things just were not going well for him. 
He has had some bad breaks academically; decisions about women have been giving him problems; money has not actually been abun­dant for him. For the next year he will be working instead of going to college. 

My friend and I attended high school together and became the best of friends towards the end of our senior year. During the following sum­mer we were out almost every night partying, enjoying a seemingly pressureless period before college. Then, I went off to Notre Dame and he went to LSU. 
At Notre Dame, we seem to be eased into the system. There are rectors and counselors and the Freshman Year of Studies. We live in a controlled environment amidst seasoned stu­dents who are generally gung-ho about Notre Dame. LSU, like most state universities, is rather different. he was on the borderline in any of his classes, 

When my friend arrived at LSU, he was glad things fell on the wrong side of the border. "You to be free. There were no parents and no people have to admit that life has dealt me a lot of trying to stand in for them. Temptations were Jokers," he said dolefully. many; there was an abundance of bars and a But he knew, as well as anyone, that he should drinking age of 18. Like many students there, not have been on the borderline so often. He, my friend could not balance the social scene for the most part, was to blame for his situation with his academic life. He sat out a semester. but would not admit this aloud. I also felt this He went back to school, wound up living in his was true; however, I didn't know whether it fraternity house last semester, and fell prey to was my place to say it. the same temptations. He is out for a year now because of his grades. During our last conversation, my friend came 
It was awkward talking about this situation out and admitted it: he had no one to blame with him. This is the second semester of my other than himself for his dilemma. The way junior year at Notre Dame. I have been lucky he said it was so disheartening. I don't know enough to make it this far in my education and whether you ever had to do it, but it is painful I hope to graduate in May of '88. But my friend to look someone in the face when he calls him­could not hope to graduate by that time; he is self a failure. He did not think he had it in stuck and frustrated. himself to do well in school, so he did not try; 
"I wish that I could have another chance to it gave him an excuse. start all over. I feel like I want to turn things "I'm scared, " he told me. "I do not want to around right now ... but I don't have that try to succeed and find out that I really can't chance," my friend commented. He was sure do it." It tore me apart to hear him say that. that if he were given the chance now he could All I could do was encourage him and remind make things work. He did not need to make a him that he had the ability to do anything he gradual change; he needed it to work immedi­wanted -as long as he believed in himself. He ately. nodded his head in agreement. 
We also talked about how much more I have a feeling that self-confidence will not meaningful it will be now that he has a whole be easily acquired by my friend. I looked at my year to change his attitude. He agreed, half­own life and assured myself that acquiring self­heartedly. confidence wasn't easy at all. I left my 
The more we talked over break, the more hometown after Christmas break wondering evident it was that my friend was very de­how many opportunities we all pass up because pressed, very disappointed in himself. He had we don't have enough self-confidence. opportunities but managed to let them go. When It's scary. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film Series 
Th1s week at the Snite, the spring film series begins with three great films: 
Monday, January 19 at 7:00 and 9:00pm Casablanca (1942) BW, 102 min. Directed by Michael Curtiz, USA 

Everything is right in this WWII classic of war-torn Casablanca with elusive nightclub owner Humphrey Bogart finding old flame Ingrid Bergman and her husband, underground leader Paul Henreid, among skeletons in his closel Claude Rains is marvelous as the dapper police chief, and nobody sings "As Time Goes By" like Dooley Wilson. See it in preparation for Woody Allen's tribute, Play It Again, Sam, scheduled to show Friday, Jan. 30. As a special introduction to the spring film series, the first 300 patrons will be admitted to Casablanca free for both the 7:00 and 9:00 show. Come and pick up a film calendar. 
Tuesday, January 20 at 7:30 pm Carefree (1938) BW, 80 min. Directed by March Sandrich, USA 

Madcap Ginger Rodgers goes to psychiatrist Fred Astaire in this wacky musical comedy with outstanding Irvin Berlin numbers in which the cure is true love. Here the Astair&Rodgers series is inflected by the screwball comedy to produce a musical that is funnier than ever. 
Friday, January 23 at 7:30 and 9:30pm Hannah and Her Sisters (1986) Color, 100 min. Directed by Woody Allen 

By all accounts, one of Woody Allen's greatest films and the best film of 1986, this is one of the film's last college showings before it is pulled from distribution to wait for the academy awards and theatrical re-release. Both a drama about three sisters and their romantic entanglements and a satirical comedy about 1V producer Allen's fears that he may have a fatal disease, Hannah is Allen's first real audience film since Annie Hall. With Michael Caine, Mia Farrow, Carrie Fischer, and Barbara Hershey. 
All shown at the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. Individual admission $1.50. Series tickets also available. Film calendars will be coming in the first issue of Scholastic Magazine. Or pick up a copy in 320 O'Shaughnessy or at the door at the Snite. 
The Observer 
New Soviet negotiator meets with American delegation 
Associated Press 
GENEVA -Superpower nu­clear arms talks resumed Thursday with a luncheon meeting between U.S. delega­tion head Max Kampelman and his new Soviet counterpart, Yuli Vorontsov. 
The two delegation leaders met privately at Soviet re­quest, instead of heading a meeting of all three top negotiators from each side, which normally marks the beginning of a round. 
The talks have been bogged down from the start by dis­agreement, among other things, over U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative research for a space-based defense against nuclear attack, popularly called "Star Wars." 
U.S. spokesman Terry Shroeder said he had no infor­mation on when the next ses­sion in the seventh round of arms talks would be. "I have nothing for the news media on this as yet," he said. 
Asked about the results of Thursday's session, which was the two men's first meeting, he said, "it went fine." He declined further comment. 
Theluncheonlastedjustover two hours. 



~----------~M~@~M
Reminder: ~<f 
All those who participated in the Urban @ 
Plunge over Christmas break must attend the 7k 
Orban Plunge Follow-up .Meeting ~ This Sunday, January 18, 1987 
7:00 p.m., .Memorial Library Aud. 
Questions? Call Dan Keusal239-7943 
* 
8 game session starting Jan. 30 

* 
Women -Fridays, 7 pm-12 am 

* 
Men -Saturdays, 7 pm-12 am and weeknights at 11 :30 pm 

* 
$50 deposit required per 15 member team (total fee -$350 per team) Call277-0851 for more information 


(3-5 pm) 
Indiana's First Built Indoor Soccer Arena 
I 

Church, society not separate, says priest 
and World Peace for the UnitedBy MARILYN BENCHIK States Catholic Conference.

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Hehir spoke Thursday on 

A separation of Church and "The Catholic Church and the State should not deny the American Political System" at Church its role in society, ac­the Notre Dame Law building. cording to Father J. Bryan "We accept the separation of Hehir, secretary of the Depart­Church and State, refuse to ac­ment of Social Development cept the separation of the 
..
,. . 
:Transfers on..............iceH 
• 
Attention Transfers Past and Present. • 
Transfer orientation and the transfer club are having and Ice Skating Party on Saturday, Jan. 17 from 8 pm to 10 pm at the north dome of the 1\CC. This is an excellent opportunity to renew old acquaintances and make new friends! 

~-······································~····· 

Church  and  society,"  said  
Hehir.  
Hehir  addressed  how  the  

Church can practically inter­act with society. "The question that needs to be answered is what role do religious institu­tions play in society? And I think what needs to be drawn upon are histories from West­ern and American political dis­courses. Voluntary associa­tions are groups that are not organized by the state," he said. 
"Voluntary associations are organized from below in soci­ety. The forces in Voluntary or­ganizations must define what role it plays in society." 
Hehir discussed the role of the Church concerning the United States' abortion policy, nuclear policy, the military policy in Central America and the equity of the economy in Central America. 
"It is virtually impossible to find another organization that joins the position on abortion and nuclear war in a distinctive way. The Church cuts across these issues in a distinctive way." 
Hehir said there is a two­factored moral equation in re­lation to abortion. The question of the state and the individual leads to the question of expand­ing the role to invade individual freedom. 
Hehir cited the abortion issue as an on-going struggle in soci­ety. "It is a remarkable factor that 13 years after the decision concerning abortion was made, it is still regarded as not accep­table," Hehir said. 


~------------·------~ 
l~ashion Show Special 
-====,~-~
An unprecedented presentation featu~l 
Female and Male Model Tryouts: 
Tues., Jan. 20, 6:00 pm 
Washington tlall 

Female and Male Final Cuts: Thurs., Jan. 22, 6:00 pm 
Applications can be picked up at 10.3 Walsh
' 
I 

I beginning Fri., Jan. 16, and returned by 1 Sun., Jan. 18 all day. Questions call: 2695, L_:'l212, or 2589. 

• • .. # .... 


The Observer Friday, January 16, 1987-page 4 
Planes collide over Salt Lake valley, debris hits houses 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -A com­muter airplane about to land and a private plane that had just taken off collided over the Salt Lake Valley on Thursday, killing at least 12 people and showering debris over a resi­dential area, authorities said. 
Falling wreckage damaged three houses, but there were no fires and apparently no one on the ground was hurt, said Salt Lake County Fire Marshal Frank Brown, who confirmed the death toll. 
Dozens of police, sheriff's deputies and firefighters rushed to the snowy crash site about 15 miles southwest of 
Parietals 
continuedfrom page 1 
"Our staff has decided we're going to keep the hours the same as they've been. We don't feel we need to change the pres­ent policy," Rozum said. 
Most rectors of undecided dorms said the extension prob­ably would be passed at staff meetings early next week. 
"The extension seems to be 
a reasonable request on the 
part of the students," noted 
Grace Hall's Father Gerald 
Lardner. 
Sister Marietta Murphy of Badin concurred with Lardner. 
"We haven't had a need to change Sunday night parietals in Badin because our mass is at 10:30. But if other dorms do need this change, we're open to the idea," she said. 
The decision in most dorms will be a group effort by the rector, assistant rector and resident assistants, whose duty hours would be extended to en­force the new hours. In Badin Hall, however, each student will cast her own vote. 
"We're going to let the wo­men in the dorm direct us on our decision," rector Murphy said. 
Brian Holst, chairman of the Student Senate committee on parietals, presented the idea last semester as a way to facilitate "co-ed receptions" after hall masses. 
The Campus Life Council passed the proposal to extend Sunday parietal hours at a Nov. 20 meeting. 
Tyson approved the proposal one week later, giving hall rec­tors "discretion to withhold this extension," as explained in his letter to Student Body Pres­ident Mike Switek. 
Director 
continued/rom page 1 
sibilities include the man­agement of the LaFortune Student Center, Stepan Center and the Alumni­Senior Club. 
Cassidy, age 25, is pres­ently the Coordinator of Stu­dent Activities at Lehigh University and said he is looking forward to beginning his work at Notre Dame. 
"I am very impressed with the quality of students here," said Cassidy. "This institution has a reputation for academics and athletics but that stretches into the activities and organizations. 
''There are some top­notch students here," he said. 

downtown Salt Lake City and said Dick Meyer of the Federal cordoned off the neighborhood Aviation Administration in after the collision between the Seattle. He said it can carry 18 Skywest Metroliner and the passengers and two crew mem­private plane occurred shortly bers. before 1 p.m. The private plane, a blue­
"They are picking up bodies and-white Mooney, had just here and there, whenever taken off from Airport No.2, a people call us to report them," small facility near the crash Brown said. site, Meyer said. 
There was confusion over the The accident was the first death toll. Salt Lake County U.S. commercial aviation dis­Sheriff Pete Hayward said 12 aster of the year. It came at a people -10 from the commuter time of increasing concerns plane -were killed in the colli­over air safety in the wake of sion. Brown said a total of 16 a Aug. 31, 1986, collision in Cer­people were dead. ritos, Calif., of a private plane 
The twin-engine jet prop and a Aero mexico DC-9 jetliner Skywest aircraft was flying that killed 82 people. from Pocatello, Idaho to Salt Martin Bee of Kearns said he Lake International Airport, was outdoors when he "heard 


The Law 
at CHIP'S Fri. & Sat. Night 


ATTENTION BSN CLASS OF 1987. 

The Air Force has a special pro­gram for 1987 BSNs. If selected, you can enter active duty soon after graduation-without waiting for the results of your State Boards. To qualify, you must have an overall ·s· average. After commis­sioning, you'll attend a five-month internship at a major Air Force medical facility. It's an excellent way to prepare for the wide range of experiences you'll hove serving your country as an Air Force nurse officer. For more information, call 
TSgt Vaughn at (317) 269-6377 collect 


CooJ Boy Music 
\.
PRESENTS 
1-\IJ'IJeiiir ng at Lee's Barbeque 
1132 So. Bend Av. 

Join the community of South Bend in celebrating the 
Martin Luther King, Jr. 
National Holiday Monday, January 19 1987 9:30 a.m. -1 0:00 p.m. at the Century Center 120 S. St. Joseph St. 
Free Transportation' for ND-SMC students to even1ng session. Guest speaker: Dr. James Cone. For more information on scheduled activities or transporta1ion, stop by the Cenler for 
Social Concerns, or call 239·5293. 'Space limited. Call for reserva~. 


UTRAGEOUS!!! 


Tryouts are here for the Talent Show. 
Big Prizes Awarded! Everyone Welcome! Auditions at Washington Hall Today and Sat­urday 8-10 p.m. Contact Monique at 283-2706. Sponsored by the BCAF. 
Prove Who's Number ONE! 

TUES. FEB. 10·7:30 P.M. 
Tickets 513.50 
On Sale at ACC BOX OFFICE-Gate 10, SEARS (UP Mall & Elkhart), ST. JOSE~H BANK (Main Office), NIGHTWINDS (No. Vtll. Mall, 100 Ctr., Niles), JUST FOR THE REC­ORD (T&C Shop. Ctr.), ELKHART TRUTH, SUPERSOUNDS (Elkhart), J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPorte), MUSIC MAGIC (Benton 
Harbor). 

a boom -a big boom -and I looked up and there were just parts flying all over. You couldn't tell one thing or an­other. You couldn't tell what was what. I was just ducking and trying to stay out of the way of things." 
In Washington, the FAA said the Skywest plane "disap­peared from radar" at 12:52 
p.m. MST while flying at 7,000 
feet about eight miles south­west of the main Salt Lake City airport over Kearns. 
Tom Doyle, the airport's as­sistant air traffic manager, said the plane was about to turn into its final approach when the collision occurred. 
Visibility at the time was 30 miles with a cloud ceiling of 7,000 feet, according to FAA spokesman Fred Farrar in Washington. Winds up to 60 mph were whipping through the area shortly afterward. Several inches of snow lay on the ground. 
A temporary morgue and command post were set up at St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, where parts of bodies fell in the parking lot and on the steps of a nearby church­run school, said sheriff's Lt. Bill van Wagenen. 
The 80 students were imme­
diately evacuated uninjured 
from the area. 

Friday, January 16, 1987-page 5 
The Observer 
Break away with Clark Telecommunications FREE airfare to Florida. Are you tired of this Northern Indiana winter yet? 
Longing for warm sunshine? Sandy beaches? A place in the sun where you can relax and get away from the books for a while? How does Florida sound? 
When you sign up for CTIIong distance between now 
.and February 25, you become eligible to win round trip airfare to the Florida city of your choice for you and a friend...the GRAND PRIZE in CTI's "Break Away Sweepstakes:· 
There is also a FIRST PRIZE of a $100 gift certificate to Tippicanoe Place and two SECOND PRIZES of $75 in CTIIong distance calls. And the first 50 students who sign up for CTI quality long distance through this sweep­stakes offer will receive $5 in free long distance calls. 
To enter our "Break Away Sweepstakes;' you must be a registered Notre Dame student and you must be 18 or older. Complete the entry form below and bring it to CTI's on-campus office, Room G89 in the Notre Dame library. Official entry forms are also available there. Current Notre Dame customers may enter, and there is no purchase necessary . 
The deadline for entry is February 25, 1987. So don't delay. You could break away to Florida this spring! 
g • ­

• --• -• -... ~ • • --• •
ClarkTelecomrn.JniCatiOrlS, Inc. 
1--------------------------------­
0 Yes. Sign me up for CTIIong distance. 
I D I already use CTIIong distance but enter me in the 
sweepstakes 
I 

· D No. I'm not interested in long distance but enter me 
1
. th t k 
In e S'£t'eeps a es. 

Name _______________________________________ 
SchooiAdd~ss ______________________________ 
Student ID# ------------------­
Telephone#------------------------------­
Return this entry form to Room G89 in the library between 8 am 
and 5P"!· !vfonday through Friday. Entry deadline is February 25, 
198Z Official entry forms only-no reproductions. One entry per 
student. Prizes are non-transferable. 
OFFICIAL BREAK AWAY SWEEPSTAKES RULES I No purchase necessary. I 
1. errs Break Away Sweepstakes is open to all registered, full or part-time Notre Dame students 18 years or older. Employees of CTI and their families, 1 
its s~bsidiarie~. advertising and s~eepstakes agents are not eligible. Win­
ners names Will be posted at CTI s on-campus office Room G89 library I 
2. 
To _enter t~e sweepstakes, complete the entry form' and return it to Ro~m G89 1~ th~ library between 8 am and ~ pm Monday through Friday. Entry • dea_dhne 1s. 5 p~ February 25_. All entnes must be on official entry forms I available e1ther 1n the CTI ad 1n the Notre Dame Observer or in CTI's on-campus office, Room G89, library. One entry per student. Not responsible for 1 lost, late or misdirected entries. 

3. 
Winners will be selected in a random drawing to be held on February 27, I 1987. All prizes will be awarded. By entering this sweepstakes, entrants agree to be bound by these rules and the decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by telephone. No prize substitutions are allowed. I 

4. 
Prizes consist of the following: GRAND PRIZE Two round-trip plane tickets to the Florida city of your choice. Tickets must be used by December 31,1987 1 and are subject to flight availability. Arrangements for the flight will be made through CTI. Taxes if any are the sole responsibility of the winners. Prizes are I non-transferable. FIRST PRIZE One $100 gift certificate to Tippicanoe Place, South Bend, Indiana. SECOND PRIZES Two certificates worth $75 in CTI long distance service. This must be used prior to May 13, 1987. ADDI-I TIONALLY The first fifty (50) students to sign up for NEW CTIIong distance service will receive $5 off their first long distance bill from Clark. 1 





"ieVV~_O_i_n_t_____________Frida~y,Ja~~ary~ffi,19~87-p~age6 
Compassion was not shown in Howard decision 
P.O.BoxQ 
Writer's behavior does not demonstrate insight 
Dear Editor: 
We were once more treated to Adolfo Calero's "inside story" on Nicaragua in Viewpoint (December 2). I cannot forget his disruptive "interventions" when Edgar Chamorro spoke here last year, and if his antics were similar during Vice President Ramirez' talk last semester, he should have been told to "sit down and shut up." Civility is a precondition for the free interchange of a university and those who abuse it only show that they need to be reminded of that fact. Moreover, Calero's breezy libel of liberation theology (in his December 2 letter) should alert stu­dents to the reliability of this particular "insider's" view of matters in Central America. I can only hope his work as 
Doonesbury 
a graduate student is more responsible than his letters or his behavior in lec­tures. 
David Burrell Professor, Philosophyll'heology 
New policy could solve drunk driving problem 
Dear Editor: 
In the final Tuesday '86 The Obser­ver, Bacchus club President John Sheehy declared: "We want to create an awareness . and educate people to what drinking and driving can do." This statement simply represents an­other useless effort to curb the problem of drunk driving. Awareness is not the problem, drunk driving is. We no longer need to increase awareness, we need to find a solution to drunk driving. We believe that the alcohol policy is the root of this problem. Because of the policy, students go off to campus to so­cialize and to drink, which leads to drunk driving. 

The solution is not to ban alcohol from the Notre Dame campus. Alcohol has always been, and always will be, a so­cial catylyst. While some may contend that alcohol is not necessary for effec­tive socialization, the fact remains that people find it to be effective and useful for the promotion of necessary social intercourse. People will find ways to consume alcohol, regardless of any im­posed restrictions. The alcohol policy is one such restriction, and students have circumvented this restriction by drinking off campus, for which driving is often necessary. 
The solution is not tighter restrictions on alcohol, but rather, removal of the alcohol policy to allow open alcohol con­
sumption on campus. This would en-......-__________.:..F..:..la:.:..n..:..n..:..e:....r_H..:...:...a.:..:,ll 
Quote of the day 
"What's gone and what's past help should be past grief." 
William Shakespeare "The Winter's Tale" (1564-1616) 

courage people to stay on campus rather than leaving the campus to drink, which endangers lives. 
In order to prevent students from driving off campus while intoxicated under the open alcohol policy, security could monitor the students as they left the parking lots. Gates could be erected and manned on Friday and Saturday nights at the parking lot exits. To avoid inconvenience for those who have not indulged in alcohol, the exits should be manned only during those hours in which alcohol consumption is most likely to occur. 
Drunk driving obviously leads to tragic consequences. We are already aware of the problem, which is en­hanced by the alcohol policy, so let's find a solution. 
Kevin Trautner Sean 0'Brien 

My last c·olumn was entitled, "Caring People Make Notre Dame Special" Being a responsible, mature journalist I now must admit that I was wrong, very wrong. 
Tom Varnum Third and Long 
I am (or was) a resident of Howard Hall. Exactly one week before my finals began, I was ruthlessly informed that I was being thrown out of my hall next year. Will somebody please pull the knife out of my back? It was a lovely thought to contemplate while studying for finals. Now, I understand the Uni­versity would like to improve the male­female ratio, but the way they went about it was vicious and cruel. As angry and bitter as I am right now, I will try to analyze this decision in as rational a manner as possible. 
The first mistake the administration made was the time between announce­ment and implementation. They in­formed us one semester before we are to be moved. All of a sudden, Howard is a women's dorm. Ideally, they should have given us at least a year's notice. Even the residents of Holy Cross Hall were informed of their eviction more than a year before the actual action. People could have moved to other dorms after the semester in order to improve chances for an R.A. or hall government position. As it stands now, juniors and sophomores have little to no chance of becoming an R.A. in their new "home away from home". Al­though these positions are theoretically open to all juniors across campus, the juniors and sophomores from Howard will have virtually no chance at them. The juniors and sophomores will be complete strangers in their new halls. They will be as new to the hall as the freshmen! The lack of time between announcement and implementation of the conversion of Howard did a terrible injustice to the residents. 
Another mistake concerns room ana hall picks for next year. The informa­tion given to us is quite vague. Will the upperclassmen of Howard get stuck with traditionally freshman rooms in other dorms? It doesn't seem fair to the original residents of the hall to be bumped down the lottery list because of newcomers from other halls. How this dilemma will be solved is not. known. Another problem centers around the tremendous amount of single rooms in Howard. Most Howard residents have lived in singles for most of their time here and were expecting to continue living in singles. Many are used to the single life and will find it hard to live with a roommate. Don't laugh. Remember what it was like living with a stranger freshman year after hving with your family for a long time? For Howard residents, it is the same situation. They have lived with the same guys for their years at Notre Dame and now they will be thrown in with strangers, again. 

Why Howard? Sure, it's the smallest dorm, but is that the best choice? St. Ed's and Carroll are about the same size, why not them? First of all, Howard is not in a good location for a girls' dorm. Badin, Walsh and Lyons are all a stone's throw from Howard. It really doesn't make much sense to add an­other girls' dorm in that area. St. Ed's is more centrally located and further away from girls' dorms. Also Howard is mostly singles. Since most of the female Howard residents will be fresh­men, there will be freshmen living in singles. I think singles would tend to isolate shy, immature freshman un­necessarily. Also Howard was just renovated. The bathrooms were all done over. What are they going to do with all the new urinals? I suppose tney figured that by changing the smallest dorm, they would inconvenience the least amount of people. Well, I don't buy that. Because Howard is so small, most of the residents know every other resident. How many residents of the bigger halls can say that? How many 
can say they even know most people on their floor? The small size of Howard should have been a consideration against conversion instead of for it. 
The final and most cold-hearted ploy used by the administration was the form and timing of the announcement. A frigid, impersonal letter was sent to all residents one week before finals! Thank you very much. I really needed some more pressure put on me that week. It is easy to see why the admin­istration decided to put this little pres­ent under our tree at that time. They surmised that with finals coming up, we wouldn't have much time to com­plain or protest. Apparently they in­formed our rector the evening before the letters were placed in the mailbox. He even interviewed some prospective R.A.'s. I am sure he appreciated all the advance notice about losing his job. 
Well, I for one have had enough rationality for one column. The way the administration informed us of this great change in our lives showed a tre­mendous lack of compassion and un­derstanding. It is hard to believe reli­gious people were involved with this decision, but it is true. 
Tom Varnum is a Sophomore English major, a resident of Howard Hall and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ................... : ......... Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the lnoepenoent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor .........................C.hrlstopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Contro//er ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar space Is avallabl11 to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1968 



Accent 
Friday, January 16, 1987-page 7 
Tell them the Truth is beautiful 
Any campus worth its salt is a  books.  The essential dream  is  as though something gorgeous  other at mass: you shall know  We know in  our  dreams the  
workshop where dreams are ex­ something strictly personal; It in-.  were !happening all around me,  the truth, and the truth will make  way we want life to turn out, but  
amined. What else is literature  valves the plans you have for the  which invited me to be optimis­ you free. Maybe we're too quick  we  should  be  prepared  for  
about?  rest of your life. If you haven't  tic, unafraid to make big plans  to fill in the gaps of our ignor­ surprises. If God spared us from  
for my life.  ance with formulas we don't ap­ surprises, we might not be ready,  
No one stays on such a high  preciate or understand.  at the end, for the Love that will  
Father Robert Griffin  all the time. The sense of beauty of an April day, which  A folk tale tells of a man who spent years searching for Truth.  take how  us home. Life, no matter carefully we try to pre­ 
Letters to a Lonely God  vacillates between sunshine and rain. All of one's life has the  When he finally found Truth, she turned out to be a wizened,  arrange it, is a mystery. We have every reason to be optimistic  
rhythm  of  a  pendulum  that  snaggle-toothed,  wispy-haired  about it on the good days, and  
swings first in one direction, then  old witch livingon top ofa moun­ thoughtful  about  mistakes  on  
Think of "The Great Gatsby,"  found  your  dream  yet,  you  another,  so that we tend to be  tain. The man stayed with Truth  the bad days. The Bible warns us  
or  of "The Tempest":  "We  are  dream of finding it in this grove  gloomy or ecstatic, orsomeplace  for a year, learning as much as  to  be  prepared  for  the  unex­ 
such stufti' As dreams are made  of academe. Even if you've be­ in-between. I presume that It is  he wanted to know. When he fi­ pected. How many of the biblical  
on, and our little life1s rounded  come a cynic who has decided  not different with you.  nally left the mountain, he asked  characters could have possibly  
with a sleep"; or of "Moby Dick":  early that dreaming is a waste of  if there was anything he could  understood when they woke up  
"water  and  meditation  are  time  in  a  world where all  the  The  only wisdom  I  have  to  do to help her. She straightened  in the morning, that this was the  
forever wedded," Ishmael  tells  cards  are stacked against you,  share  from  my  experience  of  herself up, checked her appear­ day that, as living creatures, they  
us; some of the meditations are  sure that you'll have to struggle  life's ups and downs is that, when  ance,  a,nd  answered:  "Tell  would  meet God in  an  
chafed by the mind into mad­ to exist in a dog-eat-dog society,  you're young, the down-time can  them that when you found me, I  Intimate way?  
ness.  As patriots,  we believe In  then it's obvious that you had to  seem  terminal.  When  you're  was young and beautiful." Would  
the American dream,  Inherited  examine the  nature of dreams  older, you either learn not to get  we want to find Truth if we knew  Life is an on-going adventure  
as  a  birthright.  Our politicians  before deciding not to waste time  so discouraged,  or blame it on  It was ugly and dreadful?  which should keep us excited. At  
keep promising  that  everyone  on a dream of your own.  the liver. You disicipline yourself  Skeptics have told  us that at  times when you feel dull enough  
will have a share In the things  Most of us,  I  suspect,  have  with  an  attentiveness  to  the  the end of life, the horrid news  to die, look around you. Grace  
that  dream  promises,  though  good days and bad days: waking  duties of your state in life; work  awaiting us  is that there is  no  is everywhere. Grace is that quick  
history shows us It is not true.  up in the morning,  we  decide  is the antidote to the temptation  more  truth;  only nothingness.  visit ofGod's love, like the lightn­ 
Marx.  Hitler,  Napoleon,  and  that life is a bitch, ifnot for every­ to despair about being ruined an  Whatever is,  has already been;  ing, into your life, enriching what  
Genghis  Khan  all  had  dreams  one, at least for us. Or we decide  defeated like a tragic hero.  what was  to be seen,  we  have  you do anq who you are with eter­ 
which  ended  in  millions  of  that  we  are  destiny's tot,  well  Sooner or later, as you ride the  already gotten; now for us, It is  nal consequences. We're not apt  
deaths. Religion promises us the  favored by the gods, powered by  roller coaster from  one season  over.  to meet the Lord on the Emmaus  
Messianic age when old men will  joy from an unknown source; and  to  another,  you  may begin  to  road; but the .Psalter promises  
dream dreams, and the young  so  we  get out of bed singing.  wonder about the truth ofthings.  God gave us our faith to save  that God gives His angels charge  
men shall see visions. Even sci­ That's the way it is with  me at  The poet Virgil wrote ofthe "tears  us  from the sense of nada,  or  over  us,  to  keep  us  in all  our  
ence,  I suppose,  has a kind of  60; it was the same way when I  of things": lacrimae rerum; sor­ nothingness,  that  Hemingway  ways.  
poetic expectation when It sees  was  16. On the very best days,  row  is par for the  course.  But  wrote about: "Our nada, which  
everything which has been dis­ I'm  as  happy as  though I had  how about truth?  art in nada, nada be thy nada..  "In heaven, an angel is nobody  
covered so far as a foreshadow­ brains and money, and love is  . Hail nada, full of nada, nada is  in particular," noted George Ber­ 
Ing of the pattern of truth waiting  strong in my heart because I feel  That is to say, what is the game  with thee ..."  nard Shaw; but the sight of one  
to be revealed to the researchers.  much loved. I call this the op­ plan  that  was  here before  we  Faith  assures  us  that love is  of them  In  the Huddle would  
An  astro-physicist,  hard-nosed  timism which comes from faith.  came,  and will remain after we  our origin and our destiny, and  cause quite a stir. I never saw an  
about data and on  the lookout  But even as a kid, I'd have the  leave? Is there such a thing as  that the love that saves us carries  angel; but I recognize  a  grace  
for clues, must be Inspired by a  euphoric  awareness  that  there  the will of God that serves us as  a cross on its back. This is what  when I meet one,  conspicuous  
dream the size of the physical  was some cosmic scheme afoot  ~he measure of truth? Obviously,  Jesus taught us in His parable:  for the enlightenment It brings.  
universe.  in which I was included as part  as a priest, I believe In the will  "Unless a grain ofwheat falls Into  Graces, I think. do the work of  
The most essential dreams a  of the  truth  and  beauty  of  a  of God; I hope that as a Catholic,  the  earth  and  dies,  it  cannot  angels for them. Sometimes, the  
person  has  can't  come  from  reality for which I had no name,  you believe in it too. We tell each  bring forth new life."  birds are  the light-bringers,  or  
my dog, Darby O'Gill II.  some­ 
But  do  you  know  what,  times  we  bring light  to  each  
dreamer? Your life and mine are  other,  you  and  I,  like  angels  
living parables in which the truth  delivering grace.  Maybe this Is  
about us comes out as though It  an old priest's dream. Ifso, I pray  
just  came  from  the publisher.  you'll  have  something just  as  
God doesn't let us see the script  good. Then you'll look forward  
before-hand, because the script  to the opportunities of this se­ 
hasn't been written yet; when It  mester,  as  though  you  were  
is written It will be co-authored  Adam  and  Eve  setting  up  
by  us  and  Him.  Otherwise,  It  housekeeping  In  Paradise,  if  
wouldn't be a parable, but a pro­ you'll pardon the hyperbole.  
gram which we would be follow­ Happy New Year's,  and wel­ 
Ingas though we were machines.  come back.  
Weekly Tip:Sow a kind word; reap a new friendship.  Gemini (May 21-Jun 20) Wind up as many outstanding business matters as you can  Scorpio (Oct 23-Nov 21) A short discussion may be all that's necessary to clear up a  Tired of the  
Aries (Mar 21-Apr 19) Wise rams ignore pessimists who try to lambaste your efforts.  before the year gets further along. The fewer strings left dangling, the less chance of  murky situation. Why wait for the light to come on later when you can turn it on now?  old routine?  
Stick to what you know is right  getting entangled.  Sagittarius (Nov 22-Dec 21)  
for you. Your efforts soon pay off. Taurus (Apr 20-May 20) It's  Cancer (Jun 21-Jul 20) Romantically inclined moon children could be easily  Speak out against an unwel­come intrusion in your life. Al­lowing the pattern to continue  Join  
a time for least resistance to  swayed by illusions. Much of  makes It harder to break later  
changes  that  need  to  be  what passes for substance is  on.  
made. Problems in adjusting  probably dreams.  
soon ease up once intelligent  Leo (Jul 21-Aug 22) Lion  Capricorn (Dec 22-Jan 19)  
explanations come through.  pride gets a nice polish as your efforts begin to be ap­ Your aspects indicate some­one wants to know more  The Accent department is  
preciated. Expect a welcome token of recognition in the  about you. Their object is to get to know you better for  accepting applications for:  
new year.  reasons  that  should  please  
VIrgo (Aug 23-Sep 22) A major investment needs more time before It can begin to  you. Aquarius (Jan 20-Feb 18) A chance for partnership shows  • Features Copy Editor  
show the first glimmer of promise. Be patient. Follow  great promise. Domestic situ­ations are more positive. Pay  • Scene Photo Editor  
up on unfinished business.  attention to children.  (No photography experience necessary)  
Libra (Sep 23-0ct 22) As the weather turns cooler your  Pisces (Feb 19-Mar 20) The fewer promises you make now  -·  
CAPRICORN  prospects become warmer. Expect to have some good news to share with friends and  the fewer you'll have to break later. Go easy on your enthus­iasm. There's a lot more to  For Information contact MaryJacoby at The Obser¥er (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune.  
December 22 -January 19  lovers this season.  know before you say yes.  

----------~----­
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
Th•~ Saint Mary's basketball team beat Tri-State last night by a 62-57 score. The sister duo of Tammye and Julie Radke provided the scoring punch for the Belles, with 20 and 18 points, respectively. Saint Mary's is now 5-4 on the season. 
WVFI-AM 64 will carry live tonight's Notre Dame-Army hockey game. Sean Pieri and Kevin McCormack will have all the action from the ACC beginning at 7:15. -The Ob­server 
The ND rowing club's women's varsity and novice teams will have a meeting Monday, Jan. 19 at 7 p.m. at room 123 Niewland. Anyone interested in rowing is welcometo at­tend. Also Stevensons can be picked up at 7:30p.m. Mon­day at the same place. -The Observer 
The ND judo club wih hold its first practice of the se­mester Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. in room 219 Rockne. Every­one is welcome. Beginners should wear loose clothing with long sleeves. For more information contact Rob Detzner (232-6917) or Sara Harty (3427). -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts boxing workouts continue today at 4: 15 in the boxing room in the north dome of the ACC. Beginners are welcome to participate in the Bengal Bouts, which begin in seven weeks. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Club will hold its first class and informational meeting for the spring session Monday at 7 
p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. New members are welcome. For more information contact Greg Barron at 4618. -The Observer 
Aerobics classes at Saint Mary's begin Monday at An­gela Athletic Facility. Intramural class schedules are Monday and Wednesday, 10-11 p.m. and Friday 4-5 p.m. Cost is $5 for the semester. Also physical education classes for aerobics are offered Monday and Wednesday, 12 p.m. and 4:30-5:30 p.m. and Tuesday and Thursday, 1 p.m. and 4:30-5:30 p.m. Registration in advance is required. For more information call 284-5548. -The Observer 
The men's varsity crew team will conduct a five-mile erg test Sunday from 2-4 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
-The Observer 

Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
Friday, January 16, 1987-page 8 

Break helps Irish men's swim team 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Although the scoreboard did not show it, the Notre Dame men's swim team had a very successful training trip over Christmas Break. The team trained for two weeks at Vil­lanova, but lost to LaSalle, 166­100, on Jan. 9 and was beaten by Villanova the next day, 132­86. 
Coach Tim Welsh called the trip successful in spite of the losses. 
"We made good, steady prog­ress," said Welsh, who was pleased with the way the team grew together as a group during the trip. 
"The swimmers got to know each other better, and they im­proved their swimming greatly, even if they didn't win the meets." 
Both the men's and women's teams took the trip, and both enjoyed the city of Philadel­phia and the hospitality of the families of Philadelphia-area swimmers. As with the wo­men's team, Welsh noted im­provements in team unity, spirit and enthusiasm on the part of the men's squad. 
The results of the training trip may become apparent this weekend, as the Irish take on Northern Illinois (today) and Western Ontario (Saturday) at home before travelling to Northwestern Sunday. 
"We expect to be tested and pushed to our limit this weekend," said Welsh. 
Welsh said the Northern Illi­nois meet will be a toss-up, with a slight edge to Notre Dame be­cause they won last year's meet, 78-62. The men may also have a small anvantage over Western Ontario, but Welsh gives the "home-pool" advan­tage to the Wildcats on Sunday. 

Welsh praised his team's hard work in Philadelphia and said that sooner or later a team gets credit for its efforts. He said he did not know if it would show up this weekend, but that the work always pays off. 
Upcoming NV A deadlines slated 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has scheduled the deadlines for some of its upcoming events. 
Tuesday, Jan. 20, is the start­ing date for the Stretchercise program, beginning at 5:20 
p.m. Anyone interested may advance register or sign up at the first session. 
The deadline for a beginners' cross-country ski clinic is Thursday, Jan. 22. The pro­gram takes place Sunday, Jan. 25. 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 12 
this year," said Autry, who suf­fered through an inconsistent year last season. "I've been cially in my approach. And we've spent alot more time on strength and conditioning. The jumps should be able to com­pete in most meets this season." 
'l'wo other freshmen are ex­pected to have an immediate impact. Glenn Watson will run lhe hurdle events, and Rogan 
Wednesday, Jan. 21, is the deadline for the following events: 
~1116J 
......111/1.
l,_lr.._ Calendar 
Racquetball-men's doubles, grad-faculty doubles and wo­men's doubles. 
Handball -open doubles tournament. 
comes to Notre Dame as the New York state champion in the 1000-yard run. One other runner, freshman Yan Searcy, should be watched in the 400. 
Two receivers from the Irish football team, Milt Jackson and Tim Brown, are expected to compete in the sprints. They join junior Tony Ragunas, who leads the Irish in the 60 and 300­yard dashes. 
The distance events, fed run­ners from the cross country squad, is happy to see all of its runners recovered from the fall 
Bowling -minimum seven­person roster, open to all stu­dents, no divisions. 
Track-men's and women's events are planned. 
In addition, openings are al­ways available in Aerobics, Hydrorobics and the Century Club. NVA also rents cross­country ski equipment from Thursday to Sunday. 
Registration aml!or further information on these activities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
season. Dan Garrett, Ron Markezich, Rick Mulvey and O'Conner all join Van Wie in the 1000-yard run and the 1500­meter run. 
In contrast to all the fresh­men, only four seniors are on this year's squad. But Autry, a senior, does not mind the team's relative youthfulness. 
"The seniors are in a position to help build for the future," he said. "When I come back here in the future, it will be great to still see the teams doing as well or even better." 

The ObHrwer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Ob...-nr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES  LOST ... GOLD BEAD NECKLACE LAST SEEN IN NO LIBRARY ON DEC. 15TH IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO LOST  TICKETS  DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! I NEED A RIDE FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK  Any residents of the city of Chicago who wish to register for the upcoming mayoral election or have abaentee ballots sent to  FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­LEY WEEK  
AND FOUND OR CALL £3763.  ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF  them pleaae call Kim 272-9361, John  FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEDIII  
Wordprocesalng-Typing  BINGHAMTON, SYRACUSE, OR  x3558 or Colleen 284-5446 ·  FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FAR­ 
272-8827  Need GAs for N. Carolina and Duke. Call  ELMIRA, NY.  LEY WEEK  
WORDPROCESSING  FOR RENT  Bill,2008 NEED 4 WEST VIRGINIA TICKETS  CAN LEAVE FRIDAY, DEC. 19, AFTER 1 :00 PM. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL ERIN AT 3706.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  FARLEYITES GET PSYCHEOIII FARLEY ON BROADWAY ... POP FAR­LEY WEEK  
277-8131  The kin is a-comin' In from Wild, Won­ BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  
Two room utllltiea paid private entrance  derful Weat VIrginia  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER. 233-7009. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  CALL  one person 288-0955277-1254 WANTED  and I gots ta have 4 tickets when they gits here. Call Max at II you have 2 or 4 GA's. ...............................................................  Professor Weigert: Thank you lor the note. That was very considerate of you. Hope everyone will continue to enjoy the papers. Mark Potter, Circulation Manager  THE LAW rocks CHIPS Frl & Sat night  Diane, I KNOW I'm the luckiest guy In the worldl Me Luv You I Stove GOOSE:YOU ARE SO BEAUTIFUL TO ME-THE UGLY DUCKLING (HONK IF  
Need stud. or Ga's b-ball tickets lor West  YOU'RE BLUSHING NOW)  
ATTENTION CHICAGO RESIDENTSIII II you are not regostered to vote In this years Mayoral Democratic Primary or need an abaen1ee ballot, please call Beth Ward at 272-7924 todayl ..................... ...................... DOES your club need a T -shirt design? How about T-shirts or other lmpronted sportswear? Call John £1622  Campus travel representative needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel. and outstanding marketing oxpal'lence. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1-~3-7747 for details and Information mailer. SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-800-237-2061  Va. call x2266 BIG$$$ FOR N CAROLINA TICKS CALL MIKE 1129 NEED 3-4 N.C. TIXS Call Todd 2551 .............................. WANT TO BUY 2 GA's for W VIrginia b-ball game, call Michelle 2634  THANK YOU ST.JUDEI Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Poten­tial to make $61"\r. Call Cindy at 1-80D­592·2121 . SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS ORIENTTION SESSION FOR NEWLY­ SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 10-530 ph. 233­2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel POP FARLEYIII POP FARLEYIII POP FARLEYIII SUNDAYNIGHTTHEEXTRAVAGANZA  THANK YOU ST. JUDE GAR '"SENIORS"' Senior Class Mass Fr. Flntan Steele will celebrate our first Class Mass of the semester at Farley Hall at 4:00pm this Sunday. Come celebrate together '"SENIORS'"  
- SAVE $$$1! Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. at our new loca­lion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week 1 D-530. ph. 233­2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel LOST/FOUND I  FOR SALE FOR SALE HEWLETT PACKARD 9125 DISC DRIVE NEW $1200 HEWLETT PACKARD GRAPHIC PRINTER DIS­PLAYS BAR,PIE,ECT CHARTS IN SIX COLORS NEW $2000. ALSO WYSE TERMINAL & SCREEN $250 ALL  NEED NORTH CAROLINA GA TICKETS CALL LARRY 2131 .............................................................. Need 2 GA's for DePaul. Call Kathy 284­4380. PERSONALS INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS:  REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT 3:00p.m. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE. SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS ORIENTATION·SESSION FOR NEWLY­REGISTERED STUDENTS FOR ON­ BEGINS ........ . FARLEYITES GET PSYCHED ...................... . .............................................................. ELIGIBLE STUDMUFFINS AWAKEIII ••• FARLEY ON BROADWAY ••• POP FARLEY WEEK ••• THIS SATURDAY IS LOOMING NEARIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  IT'S THE WHIP an original music show­case Sat, Jan. 17 8:00pm Theodore's SOPHOMORES CLASS OF '89 Anyone who signed up baforo Christmas tor tho class ski trip should tum in the remaining balance to the Sophomore class of· lica(2nd floor LaFortune) no later than Friday,Jan.18 at 5:00p.m. .............. ...................................  
LOST: NECKLACE-GOLD CROSS WITH DIAMOND on Monday night, Jan. 12 great sen~mental value, REWARDIII Call Marianne at 4181.  BRAND NEW FOR $2250. Macintosh W>keyboard, macwrlt&~>&int,and mouse -$900. £3268 Steve. ...........................1...................................  A step-by-step guide to Greencard from F/J+t Visas. For details, aend refundable $1 (p&hl: Immigration Publications, P.O. Box 515991, Dept. 135, Dallas, TX 75251.  CAMPUS CAREER  INTERVIEWS. TODAY AT 3:00p.m. AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE.  Happy 21st Tammye. We hope this is one radical birthday you will and will not forget. Love, Huggy and Closet D .  Jack, So sorry I missed your birthday. Love, Me Hoy y'all, call284-4356 to wish Tammye Radke a Happy 21st Birthday.  


The Observer Friday, January 16, 1987 -page 9 
thing or another, whether it Another big test will cer­people entering the game was a call or a silly mistake, tainly be on the agenda for the through Gate 10 will recieve a cost us in the end. Irish Sunday afternoon when free mug.



~~CLUB ~ 
:*........................•........*: 
~Goclfather·s Pizza~
* *
* *
* * 
: Welcome Back : 
Find one. Its worth it. ™ 
* *
: Weekend Specials l 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY_SPECIALS
* *
* *
* * 
: .50¢ Refills : 
* *
* * 
1 I
* * 
: Bring your Senior Club Cups : 
I ofMEDIUM I
: or buy a new one for $1 : 
Godfatha's I
* * 
I ~Pizza. I
0... ""'""" ..... piua •• porticipotins ....,._I Not yoJ;d .. ~wfth...,. ...... olrer. -~ Filld one. I
* * 
* * 
: Friday Lunch begins NEXT : Offer expires :v.!'Lil7 It's worth it. 
* * 
: Week: 12 noon -2 p.m. : 
L--------------------~
We Deliver to a Limited Area
* *
* * 
* * 
: Rentals -call Linda Ward : 
* * 

D WOMEN'S BASKETBALL VS. DePaul 
MUG NITJt]!!!! first 300 people in gate 10 receive a free mug!!!!!!!!!! 
SATURDAY, Jan. 18 1:00 ACC MAIN ARENA 


APPhoto in the season means the Super Bowl will be a close one. The Giants have other ideas, and a related story appears at right. 
* * Women
* IllALUMNI ~~=:c::m:~;:::em.::~.·.~~ *!: 
continued/rom page 12
! SENIOR ::~:::::::~-:::~::=:::~~:::::~-:::t:::~:::=::::: ; 
back very valiantly. And one 
Denver predicts close game; New York thinks differently 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­The word out of Denver is that Super Bowl XXI will be a close game because the Broncos weren't blown out in their visit to New York during the season. 
Well, the Giants have heard the word and the message heading West Thursday is; "We're a lot better team now." 
And it's being said by a lot of 
players. 
"We were in a little bit of a down cycle offensively when we played them the first time,'' Giants guard Chris Godfrey. "It was a struggle for us. I think they are an excellent club, but we're playing better now." 
Fellow guard Billy Ard said the Giants were a team in transformation in November. 
"We're not the same," he said. "We were going through change then. We were develop­ing into a fine team. We're an excellent team now." 
There is no doubt the Giants struggled on offense in posting a 19-16 victory over the Broncos Nov. 23. New York was out­gained on offense 405-262 and failed to score a touchdown, with defensive end George Martin returning an intercep­tion 78 yards for the Giants' only TD. 
"They didn't let us move the ball on the ground," said Giants Coach Bill Parcells, whose team gained 143 yards on 36 carries. "We got down close, but we didn't score TDs." 
One of the major weapons missing from the Giants' of­fense in November was wide receiver Lionel Manuel, who was reactivated for the San Francisco playoff game after recovering from a knee injury. 
"He definitely opens things for me," said wide receiver Bobby Johnson. "He runs routes like nobody in the NFL. his speed is back and he's cut­ting on a dime. My ankles would break the way he cuts." 
Giants tackle Carl Nelson said neither the Giants nor the Broncos came close to playing a perfect game earlier this year. 
"I know there were a lot of things that we could have gone better," said Nelson. "The same can be said for them. It should be a good game." 
"They've been tested in a lot of ways. We've just got to make that work to our advantage now. I expect we're going to bounce back just fine. A little adversity is going to be good for their souls." 
DePaul comes to town, as the Irish look to pick up a win and improve their 3-9 record. 
IRISH ITEMS-Sunday's wo­men's basketball game with DePaul features a special pro­motional offer. The first 300 
The Observer Friday, January 16, 1987 -page 10 
Women's swim team drops meets, but improves times over Christmas 

By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team took a training trip to Philadelphia over Christmas break, and even though the team was beaten in its two meets, Coach Tim Welsh was very pleased with the trip. 
The swimmers trained at Vil­lanova from Dec. 28 through Jan. 11. On Jan. 9 they lost to LaSalle, 140-126, in a tough meet that was not decided until the last event, and the next day the Irish were beaten by Vil­lanova. 135-81. 
Despite the losses, Welsh said the trip was a success. 
"We were beaten on the scoreboard," he said, "but we made great improvements over our past times." 
The intense training in Philadelphia made the team as fast or faster than before Christmas, when it trained lightly during exams. Welsh said the long period of concen­trated training without the bur­den of tests and homework was very beneficial to the team. 

"A trip like this is also very positive because the team be­came closer as a group," added Welsh. "Their greater unity, spirit and enthusiasm was ap­parent." 
The trip was not all hard work for the Irish women. The men's team also trained at Vil­lanova, and the swimmers visited historic Philadelphia, attended the Notre Dame­Pennsylvania basketball game and spent time with the families of four swimmers from the Philadelphia area. 
The Irish will be tested in a three-day challenge this weekend, hosting Northern Il­linois today, Western Ontario Saturday, and then travelling to Northwestern. Sunday. A goal of the team is to have a winning record in dual meets this year, and Welsh said this weekend could be the deciding factor. 
"The Northern Illinois meet is too close to call," said Welsh, noting that the Irish lost last year, 82-58. "We should have a slight advantage over Western Ontario, but will probably be at a disadvantage at Northwes­tern. 
"Each meet will be decided in the water. The team can make its own destiny." 
The Northern Illinois meet starts tonight at 6 and Western Ontario visits Rolfs Aquatic Center at 2:00 Saturday. 
wvu 
continued/rom page 12 
In the backcourt are a pair of speedsters who both can han­dle the ball, in 6-1 senior J .J. Crawl (6.5 pts.) and 6-2 sopho­more Herbie Brooks (7.8 points). Sophomore forward Darryl Prue, at 6-7, is the team's top substitute, averag­ing 10.8 points and 5.7 rebounds per contest. 
But Notre Dame is coming 
on. 

"Even though our guards, (David) Rivers and (Scott) Hicks, have been our scoring leaders so far," Phelps said, "our front line is starting to come on. I like some of the things Gary Voce and Scott Paddock have done lately, es­pecially as far as defense and rebounding are concerned." 
The Irish head into what Phelps calls the toughest part of the schedule in the next two weeks. After tomorrow's game, Notre Dame has a week to prepare for a game at UCLA, before returning home for four consecutive contests--against Dayton, Marquette, North Carolina and LaSalle. 
IRISH ITEMS-David Rivers and Scott Hicks have been slowed because of minor injur­ies this week. Rivers injured his right ankle and Hicks suf­fered a thigh bruise, and each was being held from practice as of Wednesday. Both are ex­pected to play tomorrow. 
The Observer !File Photo 

Irish senior Robert Nobles has been named a co-captain of the 1987 Notre Dame indoor track and field team, which begins its season this weekend. Pete Gegen has the story, beginning on the back page. 

Irefarui is famous for its crystaf. Every piere is the procfuct of rare craftsmanship aru{ strict adherence to quafity 
The same is true for Budweiser. We 6rew our 6eer with tFteJit!est Ftops) rice) amf 6ar[ry maft. Then we age it with BeechwoocG to aicf tFte naturaL car6onation. The resuft is a clean) crisp taste that has 6een cfistinctivefy Budweiser's for over one Fturu:fred"years. 
For those who 
~eciate 
quaa~ 
ffiis Biu!!s for you; 
BUDWEISEAIAI•KING OF BEERS~·ANHEUSER-BUSCH.INC •ST LOUIS 


'JI['~~~~--------------------------------------------------------•F•ri.da•y•'•J•an.u.ar•y•1•6•,1•9•87•-•p•a•ge--11 
f'!EC£5. 

Campus 
FRIDAY 6:00p.m.: Swimming, NDM and NDW vs. Northern Illinois, Rolfs Aquatic Center 7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid", Engi­neering auditorium, $1.00 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey, ND vs. West Point, ACC 
8:00-10:00: Closed Auditions, Black Cul­tural Arts Festival Talent Show, open to everyone, all acts welcome, Washington Hall 
SATURDAY 
2:00 p.m.: Swimming, NDM and NDW vs. Western Ontario, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
3:00 p. ,m.: Basketball SMC vs. Franklin College, Angela Athletic Facility 
4:00p.m.: Basketball, NDM vs. West Vir­ginia, ACC 
7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid", Engi­neering Auditorium, $1.00 
8:00 p.m.: SMC Student Flute Recital, Kathy Vanszwoll, Little Theatre 
SAB presents 

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
7, 9:15, 11:30 $1.00 EG Aud. 
8:00-10:00 p.m.: Closed Auditions, Black Cultural Arts Festival Talent Show, open to everyone, all acts welcome, Washington Hall 
SUNDAY 
1:00 p.m.: Basketball, NDW vs. DePaul, ACC 
6:30 -10:00 p.m.: Urban Plunge Orienta­tion Workshop, Library Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
CAN'T A/?.60£' J.I£Y'­W/111 171AT. 11Y 6RA!J£. HERE'S YOUR. ITS 4 ... 
P~OJE(,T. A .•. 
I \ 
_ 
Notre Dame Cream of Tomato Soup Oven Fried Chicken Beef Turnover Grecian eggplant casserole Garden vegetable croissant 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwich Fish Parisienne Patty Melt Deli Bar 


Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
/ 


ACROSS 1 Communica­tions word 5 Lou Grant 10 Wedding 
exchange 14 Donna or Rex 15 Stage 16 Acting award 17 Declare to 
be true 18 Soap opera 20 Well-read 22 Kind of space 23 Practically 
won 24 Biting remark 26 Mar 28 Stationary for 
lack of wind 32-Remus 33 Sp. painter 34 School in 
New Haven 35 Brooks 36 Strut 39 Oddball 40 Carriage in 
Hyde Park 42 Students 
in 34A 43 Lyric poem 45 Legume: var. 47 Filch 48 Nobel prize 
chemist 49 Indian lady 50 Juan Carlos' 
realm 53 Mush stuff 56 Encouraging 
phrase 59 Nucha hair 60 16 and 21 61 Enchantress 62 Sicilian 
commune 63 Southern bread 64 Gave up 65 Autocrat 
DOWN 1 Russ. sea 2 Tribe of 
Israel 
3 Focal weakness 41 Painter Henri 4 A gland 44 Drop sharply 
"Emma ... the dog ain't goin' for the new cat." 
~1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
1/16/87


All Rights Reserved 
5 "-in the Sun" 6 Seaside 7 Kind of bean 8 Vane letters 9 Car of old 
1 0 With glibness 11 News piece 12 Mate 13 Crystal gazer 19 Roman meeting 
places 21 Sieves food 24 Sea hazards 25 Entr'­26 Dismisses 27 Month in 
Madrid 28 Commence 29 Nabob 30 Slip away from 31 Inhibit 33 Chef e.g. 37 -out (get 
rid of) 38 Sovereignty 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
SAN "I coM ..If R AS
A L E E 0 V E R T L I S T I D E A M A T E 0 A N K A L 0 R D P E T E R W I M S E Y 
A L L A Y P 0 RIT S~ RAIL SAREE.AID 



-······· 
E R N •s H 0 E S S T E N 
,!.,![~ , 'B'"""' 
P L EIA D T 0 AS T SABRA STAT­
THE 'IpER 0 •• 0 N E s
A M A T A L A T E P A T E V E R T L I N T Y E S N E E D D Y L A G 0 S S H A M 

1/15/87 
46 Singer Sonny 52 Solar disc 47 -up (became 53 Milk part 
lively) 54 Siam visitor 49 lt. sport: var. 55 Cordelia's 50 Rebuff father 51 Stick used 57 Govt. agcy. 
for jumping 58 Taradiddle 
......
<1'6 
~ O.to 0~ 
<q.~l"~1-~ 
~~or, oft.. o~ ~17 

~------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------~---~--­
Friday, January 16, 1987-page 12

S~orts 
Irish face second 'toss-up' contest as always-tough WVU visits ACC 
By MARTY STRASEN didn't lose any games we berths in the NCAA or NIT Assistant Sports Editor weren't supposed to lose on the post-season tournaments each road and we almost pulled off of those years. 
While the Notre Dame bas­a major upset at DePaul, which ketball team certainly played probably would have put us in "West Virginia is a very its share of games over the a position to be ranked this talented team with exceptional Christmas holidays, Head week. athletes," Phelps said. "They Coach Digger Phelps might "Right now, having won nine love to press full-court and half­
want to consider the next one of our last 10 games and court and they're not afraid to his squad's second key :natch­knowing how well we played punish you on the boards. Just up of the season. against DePaul, knowing that because they're not ranked 

-Tomorrow's 4 p.m. game our style of play allows us to doesn't mean they're not a good against West Virginia, which come back when we're down basketball team. Along with will be regionally televised by and that our kids are confident Temple, they've got to be one CBS as the second half of its in doing that, I think we've of the favorites in the Atlantic doubleheader, marks the first really improved as a basket­10." time since the season opener ball team, especially in the While the Mountaineers lost for the Irish when neither team area of rebounding and in just their top three scorers from is the clear-cut favorite. West­playing to our ability." last season (who combined to ern Kentucky easily handled West Virginia boasts a 10-3 average 42.9 points), there is 
Notre Dame, 80-63, in the record, with all three losses certainly no lack of talent opening round of the Coca-Cola coming on the road-to Pitt (78-taking the floor this year. A NIT Classic in that first game. 57), Fresno State (61-54) and strong duo of starting forwards 
Since then, the Irish have Rhode Island (60-59) . The features 6-7 senior Wayne won all the games they were Mountaineers also sport one of Yearwood (14.0 points per supposed to win and lost the college basketball's premier game, 5.8 rebounds) and 6-8 two they were expected to lose head coaches in Gale Catlett, junior Tyrone Shaw (10.9 pts., (to Indiana and DePaul), on who has won more than 300 4.7 rebs.). Darrell Pinckney their way to a 9-3 mark. games in his 14 years at the (7.3 pts., 6.2 rebs.), a 6-9 senior, 
"I thought this group handled major college level. holds down the center spot and the last three weeks very well," Catlett has led the Moun­is the team's best board-man. said Phelps of his team's recent taineers to 20 wins per season string of road games. "We for the past six campaigns and see WVU, page 10 

Indoor track squad opens campaign at Hoosier Dome 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor  travel to Indianapolis this weekend for the Hoosier Dome Invitational. This non-scoring  prepared for every practice, to set the example for the team." Besides his role as captain, ·  the 600-yard run. His time of 1:09.4 last season was eight­tenths of a second shy of the  to qualify him for the IC4A's. But it is a unique situation for freshmen to be in control of an  
Here's the recipe. Take two all-Americans and make them  meet is just the beginning of the indoor season, which in­ Nobles has two lofty personal goals for this season. The first  school record held by Rick Wohlhuter, a former world­ event. "Alot of the pressure is taken  
co-captains. Then add a talented group of middle­distance runners. Add a touch of football players for sprints, and finally mix with a very im­pressive group of freshman recruits. The result is one very excited Irish indoor track coach, Joe  cludes four dual meets, five in­vitationals, and hopefully a return trip to Oklahoma City, the site of the NCAA Indoor Championships. The highlight of last year's season was the third-place showing of the two-mile relay team in the NCAA finals. Two  is to return to the NCAA finals in the two-mile relay. VanWie will again join Nobles on the relay, as will sophomore David Warth. Because the relay will not run until the Orange and Blue Classic Feb. 7, the last spot has not been filled, but three runners -Nick Sparks,  record holder in the outdoor 800-yard run. To break that record is Nobles' second goal. Van Wie will concentrate more on the distance events for the Irish. In addition to the two­mile relay, he will participate in the 1000-yard and 1500-meter runs.  off because we know we're it," said shot putter Ted McNamara. "But the shot is four pounds heavier than in high school, and the change has taken off some of the distance. Tom, though, is just awesome. He'll be able to compete right away."  
Piane.  of  those  all-Americans,  John  Mike  O'Conner  and  Mike  But behind the scenes, an ex­ Freshmen have also boosted  
"It's not just the middle­distance events this year," he said. "We brought in freshmen in every single event except the high jump this year. It's going to be a good year." And the Irish will get an early look at just how far the team has progressed when they  McNelis and Jim Tyler, graduated, but Robert Nobles and Jeff VanWie have returned to lead the team. "I've had some experience now, and I knew what to expect in the way of getting ready for the season this year," said Nobles. "I'm mentally  Rogan -are the hopefuls. "We have the guys to run the relay and make it to the finals," said Nobles, "but we would be the underdog because the top seven teams in the na­tion all returned at least three runners." Nobles also concentrates on  cellent recruiting season for Piane and his staff has strengthened the team in the field events and in the hurdles. For example, three fresh­men comprise the entire group of shot putters. The most noted of them is Tom Kraus, whose best toss in practice is enough  the long and triple jumps for Notre Dame. Returning jumpers Joel Autry and Rick Mench have been joined by freshmen Xavier Victor and Jason Bennett. "We have a lot more depth see IRISH, page 8 •  
Women's basketball returns home,  
tries for fourth win against DePaul  
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer  averages 24 points a contest and is second in the nation with 14.2 rebounds per game.  rebounds per game. DiStanis­lao is looking for more points from her guards to help out  
Mter  registering  a  disap­ "Diana Vines is smaller than  Botham and Bunek against the  
pointing  2-5  record  over  our kids, but she's very quick  tough inside defense of DePaul.  
Christmas  break,  the  Notre  and very strong, which is going  "We're going to have to find  
Dame  women's  basketball  to  present  some  match-up  some perimeter scoring to of­ 
team returns to the ACC Sun­ problems for us," added DiS­ fset these pack-down defenses  
day for a 1 p.m. game with  tanislao.  that we are seeing before we  
DePaul.  The  Lady  Blue  Vines' mobility also gives the  can really start to get going,"  
Demons sport a 9-4 record and  Blue Demons the ability to run  said DiStanislao.  
have always been a tough op­ponent for the Irish.  their fast break, with the secur­ity of knowing Vines will pull  The young Irish team has faced many stiff challenges in  
"DePaul is a city school and  down offensive rebounds from  the past two months, with three  
they play like city kids," said  missed shots.  losses coming to Top Twenty  
Notre Dame head coach Mary  DiStanislao expects DePaul  teams  (Texas,  Rutgers  and  
DiStanislao.  "They play real  to  play  a  tough  half-court,  Maryland)  and  three  last­ 
tough and get a lot of mileage  packed-in defense to stifle in­ minute defeats on their recent  
out of what they have. And they  side scoring from Irish players,  west-coast swing.  
have some very good players,  particularly  Sandy  Botham  "Everything was close on the  
particularly  Sally  Anderson  and Heidi Bunek. Botham is  road," said DiStanislao. "I'm  
and Diana Vines."  coming off a  career-high, 28­ proud of them. In those three  
The Observer /File Photo  Anderson is DePaul's senior  point  performance  against  close games, where we dug our­ 



DePaul guard Sally Anderson will lead the Lady Blue Demons ballhandler and enters Sun­Northern Illinois Tuesday selves little holes, we came against Notre Dame in a North Star Conference battle Sunday. day's game with 55 consecutive night, while Bunek leads the 
see WOMEN, page 9 

Brian O'Gara has the details at right. double-figure games. Vines Irish with 12.9 points and 8.1 


