~~~--~~~----------------~------------------,..____...______________ 
Anchors away -pages 8-9 


VOL. XXI, NO. 84 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

American warships reportedly close to 
Lebanese territory 
Associated Press Marines were steaming on a "routine patrol pattern" in the 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -U.S. southeastern Mediterranean, warships were reported within south of Cyprus and relatively50 miles of Lebanon on Tues­close to Lebanon. day, and official sources in The force consists of about 22 
Cyprus said civilian aircraft warships, and 1,900 more flying near the ships were or­Marines were moved out of dered by radio to veer off. Spain on Tuesday to join the 
The warships of the 6th Fleet battle fleet. were in international waters. Also Tuesday, Iran's ForeignThe sources in Cyprus, which Ministry denied reports that 
lies 100 miles northwest of Anglican Church hostageBeirut, spoke on condition of negotiator Terry Waite was anonymity. held by Iranian Revolutionary 
The United States marshaled Guards in Lebanon. a strong battle group in the eas­The fate of Waite, 47, tern Mediterranean over the remained a mystery. The 6­past week in response to rising foot-7 emissary has not been tensions in the Middle East and seen since he left his hotel in 
following a spate of kidnap­Moslem west Beirut on Jan. 20, pings of foreigners in Lebanon. apparently for a meeting with 
The kidnappers, and Moslem the Shiite Moslem kidnappersleaders in Lebanon, warned of two Americans held since that any military action by the 1985. 
United States would mean Lebanon's justice minister, death for the captives. Nabih Berri, said in Damascus, 
Pentagon sources stressed in Syria, on Monday that Waite Washington on Tuesday that had been"arrested" by the kid­the U.S. battle groups had nappers. He did not elaborate. 
received no orders to prepare Unconfirmed reports last for any military operation. week said Waite was spotted in The sources, who demanded Lebanon's Bekaa Valley, a

Student handout 
anonymity, said the carriers Shiite stronghold and base for Kennedy and Nimitz and a about 400 Iranian Revolution-Mediterranean AmphibiousA diminutive resident of the South Bend area Ready Group of roughly 1,900

and Notre Dame campus who refused to iden-see LEBANESE, page 6 
'Blood War' and special advertising discussed by HPC 
By REGIS COCCIA participated in the winning dents, will win a pizza-and­duction costs alone are over Laurie Hollenbeck as HPC Ex­Assistant News Editor dorm's 'Blood War.' " beverage party at Barnaby's. 9,000 dollars. The total cost of ecutive Coordinator. According to Gund, "The The Council also heard from the issue is going to be over Stanford Hall sophomore
"The Blood War" and adver­Blood War" was initiated by Joe Murphy, editor-in-chief of 22,000 dollars," said Murphy. Andy Shannon spoke to the tising in an issue of The Obser­Alumni and Stanford halls in The Observer, regarding a spe­"We'd like to get ads from Council regarding an arm ver commemorating the retire­response to a request by the St. cial issue marking the end of each dorm, congratulatory ads wrestling tournament spon­ment of University President Joseph County Blood Bank. Father Hesburgh's presidency. for Father Hesburgh," said sored by Stanford. "It's been Father Theodore Hesburgh "Publicity (for "The Blood Murphy asked the hall presi­Jack Lee, advertising sales rep­planned for a long time, but were among the topics dis­War") will be handled by dents for advertising support to resentative for The Observer. just got underway this week," cussed at Tuesday night's Hall Alumni and Stanford in the defray the cost of the special "We'd like to get it set by next Shannon said. Presidents' Council meeting. dining halls," Gund said. issue. week because the ad deadline According the Shannon, 
Richard Gund, an Alumni He said the dorm with the "We're going to have an issue is Feb. 23," Lee said. money raised from the tourna­Hall sophomore, announced to most pints of blood donated, sent to all 78,000 alumni," In other business, HPC Co­ment, the first round of which the Council that a pizza party counted as a percentage of the Murphy said. "We tried to get Chairman Joanie Cahill an­will be given for "people who total number of dorm resi-the lowest rates possible. Pro-nounced the appointment of see HPC, page 5 

Freshmen no longer housed in lounges 

By GREG LUCAS dorms at the beginning of the sive problem next year, but Staff Reporter second semester, she said. indicated there is always a Reinebold, who has been at certain amount of ambiguity.
Freshmen no longer are the University for 15 years, "I don't know how manyhoused in study lounges, said said this is both the largest openings we will have for Evelyn Reinebold, director of number of freshman who freshmen next year,"student residences. have had to take temporary Reinebold said. 
Eighty-four freshmen were residences and the longest Howard Hall's conversion 

originally assigned tempo­time students have been un­to a woman's dorm, however, rary residences in Grace, able to get permanent will probably cause some Flanner and Sorin study residences that she can re­overflow, she added. 
lounges at the beginning of the member. Although in the past both year because of limited dor­"I know that there were male and female freshmen mitory space. fewer people moving off have been placed in tempo­
As residences became campus and fewer vacancies rary quarters, this year all available during the year, for freshmen last year," said were male, she said. however, freshman were Reinebold. Reinebold said some fresh-gradually moved out, and the She said she did not feel 
see FRESHMEN, page 6

last ones were integrated into there would be such an exten-

AP Photo
Hart Attack 

Former U.S. Senator Gary Hart greets supporters at the opening of his National Campaign Office in Denver Monday night. Hart is ex­pected to announce his candidacy for President this April. 
~--------~-~---­
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 2 

The Observer 


In Brief 
Red would signal "no sale" under a proposal in San­ford, Fla. to color-code the licenses of drunken drivers and thereby restrict their consumption of alcohol. Law enforcement officials and legislators praised the idea, but predicted heavy lobbying against it by vendors of alcoholic beverages. Under the proposed legislation, everyone or­dering a drink at a bar would have to show his driver's license. '!'hose holding red licenses would be refused ser­vice, by law. -Associated Press 
Flying South for the winter is what the Wham-0 Company will be doing when it moves its plant out of Southern California and into Mexico. The company, which produces a half-million Frisbee flying discs a year, is making the move in an effort to be more competitive, according to an announcement made Tuesday by Larry Frazier, manager for the company's San Gabriel, Califor­nia plant. -Associated Press 
The anti-smoking movement has a new gimmick: black-bordered death announcements that tell congress­men one of their constituents has died of a tobacco-related illness. The physicians who started the campaign hope the death notices will personalize some of the 350,000 deaths of current and former smokers. The tobacco industry called them "media hype" and a "grotesque exploitation of personal tragedy,'' an analysis that angered physicians who intend to send the postcards to Washington. -Associ­ated Press 
"Purlie," a Broadway musical based on a play by Ossie Davis, will be presented at Saint Mary's next year as part of its national tour, Saint Mary's Programming Board decided at Tuesday night's meeting. The musical is being produced by Daedalus Productions, the same com­pany that produced the last three Broadway musicals at Saint Mary's, "Ain't Misbehavin'," "They're Playin' Our Song," and "Evita." -The Observer 

Of Interest 
For all St. Mary's Students interested in running on a class-office or student-body ticket there will be a mandatory meeting today and Thursday from 8 to 9 p.m. in Room 303 of Haggar College Center. One must attend one of the meetings to be eligible for office. -The Observer. 
A blood drive for the South Bend Central Blood Bank will be held today from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at Dillon Hall, the drive's sponsor. Additional blood drives will be held in the future at the infirmary Feb. 10 and 11, sponsored by Stanford: -The Observer. 

Weather 
Don't get mushy on me, you may be saying, but the highs will be in the mid to upper 30s today. Fair tonight with lows in the low to mid 20s. Increas­ing cloudiness with highs in the mid to upper 30s Thursday. -The Observer 


~-_Ihe--Observer-
Design Editor ..................... Rob Luxem Design Assistant .. .. .. .. . Andy Fenoglio Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ........................................... Michael Buc News Editor ... Ann Kaltenbach Copy Editor .. .. .. .. . .. ......... Chris Julka Sports Copy Editor ............. Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Bob White Viewpoint Layout.. ..... Kathleen Moran Accent Copy Editor........ Mike Naughton Accent Layout... .. .. .. .. .. Melinda Murphy Typist ............................... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor .................. Susan Coene SMC Day Editor ............ Monique Kelly Ad Design... .. .................. Joan Wrappe Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin · Photographer................... Suzanne Poch 
The ObRrvtr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tht ObRrvtr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observtr, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The ObRrvtr is a member of Tht Associated PrHs. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Impoverished Americans should not be patronized 
"Ninety percent of the young people of the ghetto never come in conflict with the law ... Despite the overwhelming odds, the majority ofpeople in the ghetto go on living, go on hoping, go on striving. This is the miracle." 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote these words concerning poverty in America more than 20 
years ago. Poverty is about as timeless as the sun, the moon and the British Crown. King's statement, then, is still applicable to today's society. 
Each time I visit a large city, I try to notice little quirks of human nature that I wouldn't normally have the opportunity to see. (Being a "Bender," it's always fun when I have the chance to expand my mind by really seeing the world.) On a recent trip to Chicago, I noticed two opposite ends of the sociological spectrum. The beggars, representing blatant poverty, first caught my eye, and then the Yuppies appeared on the scene during rush hour. 
The appearance of the beggars stood in direct contrast to that of the industrious Yuppies, who looked like they had just pranced off the pages of Vogue, Cosmopolitan and Gentleman's Quar­
terly. These Young Urban Professionals had 
success written all over their faces. 
But it was the beggars on the street asking for money who really touched my heart. Anyone's first reaction to such a sight might have been one of horror, pity or despair (for the poverty-stricken person and for modern American society in general). These were my first reactions as well. 
But, either I'm a tremendous fan of Charles Dickens (who admired the values, ethics and the determination of Victorian society's desti­tute), or I'm simply a hopeless romantic. The heroic spirit of the impoverished really inspired me. They reflect courageousness, willingness, and true independence. Even the most cynical among us, must admire these qualities. 
A friend of mine commented that the poor didn't need to take refuge in the streets because there were shelters for them to visit in times of trouble. This is true, and in many instances shelters are necessary for people to take refuge. These shelters also help people to make a new start, or they offer opportunities the poor would not have otherwise. 
Shelters do not necessarily take away inde­pendence from people, but the situation is "dif­ferent" for the souls who decide to rough it out on their own. This "roughing-it" attitude 
Marilyn Benchik 
Assistant SMC Editor 

------------•••--•• 

represents a umquely American theme. The United States is renowned for its frontier-spirit, and the independent poor represent a modern frontier-mentality in this country. 
There are numerous opportunities for many students in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Com­munity to help relieve the plight of the poor. Unfortunately, it is also very easy to patronize this segment of society. 
What some people need to realize is what Dickens realized over 100 years ago. Many of the impoverished may be unable to implement direct change in their present economic situa­tions, but that does not mean the poor are not as moral and independent as anyone else on these two campuses. 
At any rate, the beggars, who for instance played their guitars and saxophones on the street-corners for any pittance that was thrown into their instrument cases, did honest justice to their art. Like their music, the beggars should be recognized, not patronized, for the inspiring contributions which they make. 


The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 3 
Reagan's chief of communications adds name to list of resignations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Patrick Buchanan, President Reagan's combative chief of communi­cations, added his name Tues­day to a growing list of admin­istration resignations, saying he could work for conservative causes more effectively out­side the White House. 
Buchanan, who announced last month that he would not run for president, has seemed frustrated in his two-year cam­paign to get the administration to follow a hardline conserva­tive script. 
Announcing the resignation, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Buchanan "feels he can better influence the issues and politics of 1988 and the direction of the conser­vative movement and Republi­can Party by speaking and writing from a vantage point outside the White House." 
He will leave the $77,400-a­year job March 1, joining an exodus of top administration officials departing with two years left in the administra­tion. 
Fitzwater said the turnover was healthy. "You get a lot of new blood in ... It's good to get new energies in for the last drive." 
Some people delayed their departure, Fitzwater said, "because of the Iranian situa­tion and didn't want to leave while there was difficulty." He was referring to the contro­versy over the secret sale of arms to Iran and the diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels. 
That affair produced a shakeup in Reagan's National Security Council staff and cost the president his national se­



Career Day Ill• INDY 
Tues., Mar. 3 in Indianapolis 
WHO: Anyone interested in -Accounting -Journalism -Finance -Law -Health Care -Many others 
WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum in the REAL WORLD! COST: $12 (Includes transpo. & meals) 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 
Returns 
WHEN: Bus leaves Tues. Sam 1Opm APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 

curity adviser, John Poindexter (replaced by Frank Carlucci) and a top aide on the NSC, Oliver North. 
In addition, Reagan has lost his longtime spokesman, Larry Speakes and his deputy, Peter Roussel; CIA director William Casey; political adviser Mitchell Daniels; Cabinet sec­retary Alfred King on; drug­abuse adviser Carlton Turner; and the president's doctor, T. Burton Smith. 
Fitzwater also acknowledged there seems to be "kind of open speculation around town" that Richard Perle, a top adminis­tration policy-maker in arms control, is poised to resign as an assistant secretary of defense. 
He said that Donald Regan would not resign as Reagan's chief of staff, as has been urged by members of Congress and others in the wake of the Iran­Contra scandal. 


The Observer.<Suzanne Poch
Cut it out 
Junior Mike Geraghty insouciantly awaits the inevitable at Uni­versity Hair Stylists while stylist "Kathie," brandishing a comb, carefully contemplates the work to be done. 
Admission and scholarship 


AUDITIONS
-
for advanced Instrumental 
perlormers 
m the 
School of­
and 1ts 
The CalArts ~~~~~~;~culty 
TH ensemble
20 Century Players 
Stephen L Mosko, Conductor. 2/18-17 Boston Guest conduct~ for 1987·88:
2/18 New Haven 
John Adams 2/19 Rochester 
MauriCIO Kagel 2/20.21 Chicago 2/23-25 Los Angeles 2/28 San Francisco 2/27 Seattle 
3/9 Ann Arbor 3/10 Bloomil•gton 
3/11 Cincinnati 
3/12 Dallas 
3/18-17 New York 
3/18 Philadelphia 
3/19 Cleveland 
1-800-292-ARTS (California) 1-800-545-ARTS (National) 
California 1nsrirure of rhe Arts 
24700 McBean Parkway 
Valencia, CA '91355 
ATIN: Sruarr Horn, Admissions 
The~ auditions are held in conjunction with auditions 
for the Los Angeles Philharmonic Summer Institute. 
Participants may audition for either or both programs. 




Career Day in DETROIT 
Fri., Feb. 27 WHO: Anyone interested in 
-Accounting  -Law  
-Advertising  -Public Relations  
-Finance  

WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum in the REAL WORLD! COST:$20 (includes transpo., hotel & dinner) 
sponsored by the Alumni Association 
WHEN: Bus leaves Thurs. 7pm 
Returns Fri. 1Opm APPLICATIONS: Only 30 Openings! DUE: Fri., Feb. 6 AVAILABLE IN: Alumni Office 2nd fl. Admin. Bldg. 239-6000 
Catholic 
elected to 

head group 
Special to the Observer 
History professor Jay Dolan, director of the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at Notre Dame, has been elected president of the American Society of Church History. 
Most members of the American Society of Church History are professional teachers, writers, and ar­chivists from universities, colleges and seminaries. 
Professor Dolan is the second Catholic president in the 100-year history of the or­ganization, whose presi­dents are elected annually. The first was Msgr. John Tracy Ellis, elected in 1969. 
Dolan, who joined Notre Dame's faculty in 1971, is a 
native of Bridgeport, Conn. 
He graduated from St. John's Seminary in Boston in 1958, obtained his S.T.L. degree from the Gregorian University in Rome in 1962 
• and his doctoral degree from the University of Chicago in 1970. He taught theology for one year at the University of San Francisco before coming to Notre Dame. 
His publications include dozens of articles and reviews in scholarly jour­nals and three books, "The Immigrant Church: New York's Irish and German Catholics, 1815-1865", "Cat­holic Revivalism: THe American Experience 1830-1900"; and "The Amer­ican Catholic Experience: A History From Colonial Times to the Present." 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 4 

The Observer 
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 5 





Vote in Philippines shows little support for Communists 
Associated Press 86,918 precincts by the private monitoring agency National 
MANILA, Philippines -The Movement for Free Elections, Philippine government said known as NAMFREL, showed Tuesday the overwhelming the charter with 78.51 percent voter approval of the new con­of the vote. stitution shows Communist in­NAMFREL said 9,754,012 surgents have little popular voted for the constitution and support, and offered to reopen 2,669,231 against it. peace talks with the rebels. In Washington, State De­
Juan Ponce Enrile, the partment spokesman Charles former defense minister and Redman called the results President Corazon Aquino's "an impressive institutional main right-wing opponent, triumph for a resurgent conceded defeat in the cam­Philippine democracy and a paign against the charter remarkable personal victory along with several leftist for President Aquino in her groups. steadfast efforts to restore 

Aquino fired Enrile from stability and prosperity to her the Cabinet in November. The country." new constitution legitimizes The only one of the her revolutionary rule, which country's 13 regions in which AP Photo began nearly a year ago, and the constitution was behind A volunteer election worker counts ballot boxes showed the new Philippine constitution being she contends it will help sta­was Cagayan Valley of north­at a Manila warehouse after their return to approved by 80 percent of the vote. See related bilize a government beset by eastern Luzon, which includes storage Tuesday. Early unofficial returns story at right. challenges from both the left Enrile's home province. The 
and right. margin was 53 percent to 47. decisive," said Edgardo An­Negotiators for the esti­dislike the Communists be­
Defense Minister Rafael Aquino and her constitution gara, chairman of mated 23,500 insurgents cause of what they demon­lleto said in a statement: were winning 52 percent to 48 N AMFREL. He predicted a withdrew from the talks last strated during the cease­"This shows repudiation of in the Ilocos region of final affirmative vote of at week, accusing the govern­fire," he said in reference to the Communist claim that northwestern Luzon. That in­least 75 percent. ment of "insincerity" and the alleged rebel violations. (the Communist Party) has cludes the Ilocos Norte home military of abuses. the support of the people. It province of former President A cease-fire with the Com­Ileto said: "Mrs. Aquino Aquino has not commented is clear our position is gaining Marcos, who fled the country munist insurgents expires in now has the support of the mil­on the collapse of the talks, ground." last Feb. 26 in the face of the four days. Defense Minister itary and the other side will but lleto and the president's 
Official returns from Mon­civilian-military uprising Ileto said the referendum vic­have to be very careful be­spokesman, Teodoro day's referendum were not which brought Aquino to tory gives Aquino a clear cause they have seen the re­Benigno, said Tuesday her expected for days. An unoffi­power. popular mandate and the up­action of the people. government is ready to cial tally of just over half the "The trend is already per hand in peace talks. "It is clear that people ... resume negotiations. 
············~··········· 



ARax 
Associated Press border battlefront between to Seib, so "we don't have

Preferred 
Iran and Iraq, which have been anyone who has talked to him NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran con­at war since September 1980. or seen him." firmed Tuesday that it arrested Its official Islamic Republic Seib had sought assistance

Customer 
• 

American reporter Gerald Seib News Agency reported during from the Swiss Embassy after Present your Notre Dame or as a "spy of the Zionist the weekend that a "spy of the immigration authorities im­regime" who entered the Zionist regime" (Israel) had pounded his passport last
Saint Mary's J.D. to our cashier country in the guise of a jour­been arrested after entering Thursday while he was prepar­
•• • •• • • and receive a lOo/o discount. nalist. the country with a false pas­ing to leave the country. He is Seib, a 30-year-old corre­sport disguised as a journalist, based in Cairo . US 33 North store only . spondent for the Wall Street but it did not identify him. Warren Phillips, chairman of Journal, went to Iran with 56 State Department spokes­the Wall Street Journal, said
:•.•••••.•••••Qff~r. .~vn~ .~M7, •.......•.•• 
other foreign correspondents man Charles Redman said Monday: "We believe that a by invitation from the fun­Monday that the Swiss Embas­dreadful mistake has been damentalist Shiite Moslem sy, which handles U.S. made in the detention, and we regime. He was arrested Sat­interests in Iran, protested fervently hope that the govern­
NIYSMC Right to Life presents: urday and not allowed to leave Seib's detention to Iranian aut­ment of Iran realizes it has with the other journalists. horities and demanded his made a mistake and will set The Tehran radio broadcast release. him free. 
Author and Priest 
was Iran's first official con­"His continued detention is "He has not been seized by
FATHER JOHN POWELL, S.J. firmation that Seib was under unwarranted," Redman said. some mysterious elusive band arrest. It also said the United He said Tuesday that the of terrorists, but by the govern­States had asked for his Swiss had been unable to obtain ment of Iran, the government 
author or Fully Human. Fully Alive release, but did not say when an appointment with Iranian that had invited him personally or how the request was made officials to discuss the arrest. and by name to come there in
and Why Am I Afraid to Love 
and gave no details. White House spokesman the company of more than 50 Iran invited Seib and the Marlin Fitzwater said the other American and foreign speaking on: other journalists to visit the Swiss had been denied access journalists." 

"Life, the Greatest Gift" 
you shouldn't have any prob­for April4, will benefit National 
lems."
HPC 
Catholic Relief Services. Wednesday, Feb. 4 at 7:30 Zahm President Andrew Janel Blount, Publicity Com­
continued from page 1 
Library Auditorium Souder announced that a fund mittee chairman for the Stu­
began Sunday night in Stan­
has been established in dent Activities Board, an­
ford, will benefit the Special 
memory of Michael Cogswell, nounced the debut of the SAB 
.....------------------------1 Olympics. Shannon said parti­
the Zahm Hall Junior who died information line. "Starting to­
cipants are required to sign a of head injuries in a Dec. 6 ac­morrow, it will have a list of release and said there is a need cident. "There's a fund for Mi­what's happening during theObservers: 

for coordinators "to set up chael Cogswell for needy stu­week," Blount said. "The num­
matches and weight divisions. dents," Souder said, asking ber is 239-7673, which spells out Telxon will hold an open 
"I think it's a good idea be­hall presidents to contact him ROSE," she said. house at the Morris Inn on 
cause we're trying to coor­if any dorm wishes to make a HPC Co-Chairman Sheila February 5 and will be in­
dinate it with the Late Night donation to the fund. Souder O'Connor said "things are Olympics," Shannon said. "We said although Zahm estab­terviewing 1987 graduates going real well" with the Late 
want to try to have a campus­lished the fund, it does not de­Night Olympics. "We'd like to generated positions. 
on February 6 for growth· 
wide playoff at the Late Night termine who receives the fin­have reps from dorms to help
Olympics Feb. 13." ancial award. 
set up. If we could get people

Andy Barlow, president of St. Morrissey Hall Senior Danny to work half-hour shifts, that 
Ed's Hall, spoke to the Council Harrison, chairman of theTelxon is a high-tech com· would be great; they'd really
about SYR fire regulations. Notre Dame Charity Ball, said appreciate that," O'Connorpany manufacturing hand­Barlow said the HPC Fire the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's said.
held micro computers and accessories and developing custom Safety Committee "worked up Gong Show will be held insoftware and communications packages. With a compounded a set of guidelines. (Fire Safety Washington Hall March 6 to O'Connor said Buzz Bus ride growth rate of over 30% for the last five years. Telxon provides Marshal Jack) Bland approved benefit a charity for needy cards will be availablean exceptional environment for growth in an exploding arena. 
the guidelines," said Barlow, children. According to Har­Thursday, with five rides for rison, the Charity Ball, slated $1.
'-------------------------'adding, "If you follow these, 1,,(· 
,....--------~ ----~-----------­The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 6 

Fundamentalist Shiite Moslem students of Beirut University demonstrate in west Beirut Tuesday to protest the kidnapping of four pro-
Liberace comatose, nears death 
Associated Press 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. ­Liberace lapsed into a coma Tuesday, and a priest was called to prepare for last rites as family and friends kept a vigil at the pianist's desert home, his lawyer said. 
Fans had lighted candles on the curbstone outside the 67-year-old star's home Monday night and remained gathered outside Tuesday. 
"His pulse has gotten weaker, and his breathing has gotten more labored," attorney Joel Strote said out­side the house during a news briefing Tuesday evening. "He can't swallow." 
"He is comatose," Strote said. " ... He is very pale but obviously resting very comfortably. He's not in any pain and basically his family is here--his sister, his deceased brother's wife Laura, his sister's daughter and her husband." 
Asked how long he might survive, Strote said, "It's hard to estimate, but obvi­ously it's not going to be long." 
"It's real touch and go," said his publicist, Denise Collier, by telephone from New York. She said Liberace suffers from anemia, emphysema and heart disease. A spokesman last week denied a published report that he had AIDS. 
Strote said there were no plans to hospitalize Liberace because "there is really nothing that could be done for him in a hospital, and it was his desire to rest com­fortably at home." 
Freshmen 
continuedfrom page 1 
men are placed in temporary living quarters because the Admissions Office accepts more applicants than there is available room space, believ­ing some of them will eventu­ally decline admission, cancel their confirmations or not show up. 
Officials propose mandatory AIDS testing in hospitals 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Federal health officials, worried by an in­crease in AIDS among heterosexuals, said Tuesday they may recommend that AIDS blood tests be mandatory for all patients admitted to hospitals and even couples ap­plying for marriage licenses. 
The test for antibodies to the AIDS virus now is required only for blood donors. 
The federal Center for Dis­ease Control has invited 250 public health officials to At­lanta for a public hearing to discuss its proposal, said Dr. Walter Dowdle, the CDC's AIDS director. 
Those invited to the hearing Feb. 24-25 include members of civil liberties groups, who may oppose the proposal, Dowdle said. 
The CDC will decide after the hearing whether to make a for­mal proposal about expanded 


Lebanese 
continuedfrom page 1 
ary Guards. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, moni­tored in Nicosia, quoted a 
Foreign Ministry spokesman in Tehran as denying a U.S. news media report that Waite was in the hands of the Revolutionary Guards in the Bekaa. 
The spokesman said the report was "fabricated by im­testing for AIDS. Such a recom­mendation that state hospitals or government agencies make the tests mandatory would not be binding on them, Dowdle said. 
"What the meeting is really about is to explore the issues related to using the test to prevent further infection. We're looking for a public forum," Dowdle said in an in­terview. "We're saying these are the ways the test might be used. Here are the justifica­tions, here are the obstacles." 
One obstacle, he said, could be a concern over confiden­tiality. Hospitals and govern­ment agencies would have to ensure that test results remain secret to prevent discrimina­tion against AIDS carriers, he said. 
"The person who benefits from the test is the individuai and the contacts of that indi­vidual," Dowdle said. 

* 
** ****************• 
Happy Sweet l&t...: 
* 
Birthday ! 
*
**************** 
* 
Doris * 
* 
* 
Stombaugh * 
* 
* 
* 
*
***************** 
From those you *
* 
tell where to go * 
****************•* 
perialist news media" · and stressed that Iran never sanc­tioned kidnapping foreigners in Lebanon. 
The two Americans Waite seeks to free--Terry Anderson, 39, chief Middle East corre­spondent for The Associated Press, and educator Thomas Sutherland, 55--are held by Is-. Iamie Jihad. The group is believed to be made up of Shiite fundamentalists loyal to Iran. 
Altogether, 26 foreigners now are missing in Lebanon and presumed kidnapped, includ­ing eight Americans. 
Big House pay boost takes temporary effect 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Congress allowed itself a $12,100 pay raise, at least temporarily, when the House let pass a mid­night Tuesday deadline for rejecting the hefty pay in­crease. 
Democratic leaders said the House would pass Senate­approved legislation on Wed­nesday that gives $50 million to the homeless and also disap­proves the pay raise. 
But House Democratic Whip Tony Coelho of California said it was unclear whether that ac­tion would, in fact, repeal the pay raise because the vote would take place after the mid­night Tuesday deadline. 
Still Coelho said, "There's still going to be a vote" later to repeal the pay raise. "Don't create the impression that we've voided all opportunity" for a repeal, he told reporters. 
House leaders deliberately delayed action on the pay raise by adjourning for the day in early afternoon. When Majority Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., motioned for adjournment, opponents quickly called for a vote but lost 221-17. 
The maneuver brought a firestorm of protest to an issue that is always a nightmare for lawmakers who want a pay raise but are fearful of the po­litical consequences of voting for one. 
Rep. Connie Mack, R-Fla., 
called the adjournment maneu­ver a cleverly designed smokescreen. "We've lost credibility" with the back-door move, he said. 
"The House leadership acted like a thief in the night, skulk­ing away with its ill-gotten gains," added Rep. Tom Petri, R-Wis. 
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader said the maneuver "added treachery to their ar­rogant and avaricious behav­ior," and warned that the public outcry would force Congress to relent. 
In addition to elevating con­gressional pay to $89,500 from the current $77,400, substantial raises were in line for 3,000 high-ranking federal officials and judges. 
House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, acknowledged that pay increases for the federal judiciary were a stickier issue because the Constitution for­bids rescission of a judge's pay raise. 
The Senate turned down the pay raises last week, leaving the politically sensitive issue squarely in the House's corner and raising the hackles of some representatives. 
Rep. William Ford, D-Mich., said the senators were trying to "look like heroes and then run for home. That's how I feel about their ungentlemanly con­duct." 

********************************** 
Aerospace Engineering 
Georgia Institute of Technology 

Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D): 
Aerodynamics Controls, Right Mechanics & Aeroelasticity Optimization Combustion Propulsion Computational Auid Dynamics Structural Dynamics Computer-Aided Design Structures -Composites 
Individual tuition & fees are $} ,691 per calendar year. 
Total financial aid per calendar year: 
$13,000 C tuition and fees Selected Research Fellowships $9,00()1$13,5000 Research Assistants 
All graduate students will participate in research 
For further informaticA contact: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-3011 Office Hours: M-W 2-4:30 

*********************************** 
--~· 
"ie~E_O_i_n__t_____________we-dnesd~ay,F-ebru~ary-4,198~7-pa~ge7 
Responsible drinking must be allowed on campus 
It appears that last semester's drunk driving accidents have produced their only possible positive result: students are finally dealing with the problem of drinking and driving. In letters to the editor and quotes scattered throughout articles in recent issues of The Obser­ver, students have recognized that this problem is serious and that fault for the recent incidents does not lie in any one cause but in a number of different causes. 
Mike Wilkins 
here, there and back 

While some students have placed blame solely on the administration's al­cohol policy, the majority are willing to acknowledge that drinking and driving is an individual decision and people who go out to drink are going to have to decide not to drive or be willing to pay the consequences. Even students who feel the alcohol policy is the reason for the drinking and driving problem are likely to admit that, alcohol policy or no alcohol policy, people who drink must be responsible for their own ac­tions and have enough common sense not to get behind the wheel of a car. 
Although student reaction indicates most of us are willing to accept blame for the drunk driving problem on campus, reaction from members of the administration has not been nearly as positive. Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick says the alcohol policy is "not at all" to blame for the recent drunk driving problem, according to Friday's January 23 Ob­server. Fr. David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, notes that "making the alcohol policy tighter or looser is not going to solve the problem .. .I know the student body is waiting for this big bureaucratic reaction from the Univer­sity as far as I'm concerned, there isn't any." 
'The temptation to drink and drive does exist and it's furthered by a policy that has forced students to go off-campus to drink.' 
The administration's reaction to last semester's drunk driving accidents is typical of the University's approach to the issue of drinking on campus. Mem­bers of the administration have worn 

IAJ&LCOM& 8ACX. 7D OAY 32 
OF TH& ORAL. Rf)8Cf?J5 OEA7H 
PATOf' MYPR/}/)(}C£1< JAK£ ~ ANOI ARE 571/...L TALKiNG · A801/T 6(){)'5 &)(Jl?Af)RPINARY ~ $4.'i lrl!UION 5HAK&{)(JWN.
'4 / 
blinders as they churned out policy 
upon policy, seemingly oblivious to the 
effect such policy would have on stu­
dent life. Fr. Tyson's remark that the 
University has no reaction to the drunk 
driving problem or the impact of the 
alcohol policy on the problem is just 
another example of the administra­
tion's "sweep our problems under the 
rug" approach to student life. A few 
years ago, the administration was 
awake enough to recognize an alcohol 
problem on campus, a problem that has 
been growing for some time. But rather 
than get tough with the people who 
abused alcohol, the administration 
more or less banned alcohol for the 
majority of students here. Although 
consumption of alcohol was allowed in 
some limited and unrealistic circum­
stances, the administration basically 
pushed Notre Dame's alcohol problem 
into the streets of South Bend. 

So now we have this great alcohol 
policy and there's no more drunk stu­
dents kicking holes in walls and there's 
no more guys trying to out drink each 
other in dorm basements and there's 
no more groups of girls going from 
dorm to dorm to drink and there's no 
more disgusting smell on Saturday and 
Sunday mornings. But the problems the 
alcohol policy was designed to correct 
are still there. Students are still 
abusing alcohol. The only difference is 
that now instead of going from dorm to 
dorm to drink, we're going from bar to 
bar. Instead of throwing up in our party 
rooms, we're killing each other. The 
alcohol policy hasn't worked. If anyth­
ing it has made matters worse. 

Some basic facts of college life seem 
to escape those who are making the 
rules around here. College students are 
going to drink, rules or no rules. Vir­
tually nothing can be done to change 
that. Since students are going to drink 
at college, they should at least learn to 
drink responsibly in a social atmo­
sphere. Therefore, rules should be de­
signed toward teaching and encourag­
ing students to drink responsibly. 
Permitting drinking in the limited cir­
cumstances currently allowed on 
campus does not encourage students to 
drink responsibly. It does encourage 
them to head off-campus where they 
can drink in large groups, in a party­
like atmosphere, and unfortunately, al­
most completely unsupervised. 

The second basic fact of college life overlooked by these rules is that Notre Dame is an island surrounded by, well, nothing. This isn't Indiana tTniversity or Michigan State; you can't walk out the door of your dorm, walk down the street a couple of blocks and be at your favorite watering hole. Here, if you're going off-campus, you're almost cer­tainly going to drive. Now that doesn't mean that you're necessarily going to drink and drive; by now we've all realized that is a poor decision to make. But the bottom line is, the temptation to drink and drive does exist and it's furthered by a policy that has, whether the administration is willing to admit it or not, forced students to go off­campus to drink. 
The answer is not simply to allow drinking the way it was four or more years ago. The majority of students are willing to acknowledge that there was an alcohol problem on campus and that stricter rules on alcohol were certainly needed. But attempts to solve the alco­hol problem have largely failed and have created new and more serious problems. We've tried the old policy and now a new policy is needed. Allow­ing drinking in a realistic but controlled atmosphere is needed. The administra­tion should encourage moderation and help students learn to drink responsib­ly. Students who refuse to drink respon­sibly should be punished, but room should be given for mistakes to be made. Under the current policy, if you make a mistake, you're taking your life into your hands. 
I was here almost three years ago when the alcohol policy was announced. After the protests and all the rest of the nonsense were over, many students voiced their concern that the new policy would just force students to go off campus to drink. The administration didn't want to listen, or, if they did, they didn't give much consideration to those concerns. Now there have been three drunk driving accidents here. Still the administration is unwilling to acknowledge that the alcohol policy has become part of the problem. 
Student reaction to these accidents has shown that we are learning and we know we're at fault and we're at least willing to try to work hard to correct the problem. We're learning from our mistakes. Too bad the administration can't do the same. 
Mike Wilkins is a second-year law stu­dent and a 1985 Notre Dame graduate. 
P.O.Box Q 

Presidential hopefuls receive encouragement 
Dear Editor: 
They said it couldn't be done. We knew we wouldn't win. We didn't want to win. But it happened. Before we knew it we were the student body president and vice president. And we were scared, real scared. But we lived through the first few weeks and things got better, much better. On February 17, elections will be held for a new pres­ident and vice president. This evening there is a mandatory meeting for prospective candidates. 
Now it's time for someone else to come out of the woodwork. Let's face it, if we can do the job, anyone can. All it takes is a little enthusiasm and creativity. We're going to be honest, you can't do everything. We had a lot of ideas that we just couldn't get away with, no matter how hard we tried. There are a lot of things that go on that 

Trudeau 
?TRON6 5TUFF. 

RONAL..D 8UTIAJOUWN'T ReAGAN. GOO !<NOWH/3 00&5N'TM&AN\ IT? \ 
General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle">'s of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Ol)inions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
nobody knows about, and nobody cares. But you have to do them. The key to the whole job is to keep everything in perspective. You can't change the Uni­versity overnight. Don't try. But you can make a difference. You can do small things. We weren't great. We were good. We did enough to affect more than a few people. Hopefully, we made some people smile. 
It's a big job and it takes a lot of time. You'll meet more people than ever before. You can make it fun or you can make it a drag. We had fun and we learned a lot. You can too. We whole­heartedly encourage everyone who is even thinking about running for office to do it. Get off your couch, dust off your crayons, and go out there and give it a shot. Why not? It's free, it's fun, and even if you lose, people at parties will know your name. If you win, well that's your problem. 
Mike Switek Don Montanaro still the Regular Guys 
Quote of the day 
"If you have a friend worth lov­ing, love him. Yes, and let him know that you love him. Why should good words never be said of a friend 'till he is dead?" 
Daniel W. Hoyt 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke Production Manager ........................... Mark McLaughlin OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt 
Founded November3, 1988 


Accent 

Just ask WNDU anchorwoman Mau 
GERTIE WIMMER features writer 
T 
here are some interviews that you just don't want to do. When presented with the rather curious assignment of interviewing television anchor person Maureen Mcfadden, I was excited. But I had some reservations: the topic of the interview, "the importance of writing" seemed rather dubious, I had never actually seen the WNDU news or Mcfad-
A look behind the news 
MARK NEMEC features writer 

P 
icture this: A Notre Dame student Danny Domer, is giving a tour of our beautiful campus to the Smith family, a group from a retirement home In Muskegon, and a man named Morty. Of course, this tour is being given when the weather is reasonable, so visibility is more than a mile. 
As the group walks along the lake behind Lyons hall, Ezekiel continues his tour. "To your left you can see the Knute Rockne memorial and to your right is the ROTC building where all four services of our country are represented." 
"What's that?" little Johnny Smith asks as he points past the ROTC building to a small two-story building with about flve radar dishes In Its back­yard, "It looks like Metroplex from the Transformers." 
"That Is WNDU," Ezekiel replies. "Channel 16 here In South Bend. But that Is too close to the real world of work for many of us, so we do not know much about it." Well friends, I think It Is time we found out about our neighbors behind the golf course. 
WNDU originally broadcast from the Center for Social Con­cerns building behind Breen­Philllps. About flve years ago they moved to their current location along U.S . .31. Accor­ding to Gary Sieber, managing editor of the newsroom, the station serves two purposes. First. they are a commercial broadcasting firm and they must assume all of the respon­sibilities that accompany that title. Secondly, they must pro­vide a learning environment for students wishing to begin a career In their field. This Is their obligation they to Notre Dame. 
A man who helps them fulfill this obligation Is Harold Kevorkian, vice president of WNDU, and professor of the telecommunications internship program at Notre Dame. A select few of his students actu­ally become Interns at WNDU to help them get started In the business. But what about those of us who are Interested In working In television but can't 
et an lnternshi ? What advice den, and from what I had heard about Maureen I was a little bit jealous. 
But when I talked to her on the telephone, -she sounded pleasant enough, so an ap­pointment was set. 
Friday found my car parked in the WNDU guest spot while I was perhaps a bit less com­modiously parked within the glass covered building. Mcfad­den was already I 0 minutes late and thoughts of "Who does she think she is?" percolated 
would we receive? 
"Try to get an M.B.A. and make more money," said Mike Collins, co-anchor of the eve­ning news. "Seriously, though, writing is extremely important. If you cannot express yourself in writing. you are of no value to us. So that is one thing you must do well. Once you get started in this business, you have to be willing to work hard for peanuts for a while until you start to move up in the business." 
Collins' partner at the anchor desk. Maureen Mcfadden, backs up his statement. "Once you are committed to this line of work. you have to take any position that is available. Whe­ther it be camerman or TV 
truck driver, you have to get started somewhere," she said. "My advice to students would be to do as many things as possible In the communica­tions field while you are at school. such as writing for The Observer or working for WVFJ." 
"There is no formula for get­ting a job in telecommunica­tions. It is just a matter of being in the right place at the right time," said Sieber. The validity of this statement is confirmed when you look at the careers of Collins and Mcfadden. 
Mike Collins graduated from Notre Dame in 1967 and after working at WSND he took a part-time job shooting sports film at WSBT, channel 22. He then accepted a job as a reporter for WNDU. "At the time, WNDU was in really bad shape. After I had been there a while, the station had both of their anchors quit within one week. I was then asked one night if I would like to anchor the news. Of course, I said yes." He has worked at WNDU for 18 years and takes pride in the fact that he has never been late for a broadcast. He also sees himself as a newsman and not a personality. "I am intensely shy among groups. Don't get me wrong. I love meeting people. But you'd never catch me just browsing through the mall. I mean, once In a while I'll go to Senior Bar because I know the students just don't care that much. They'll greet you, say a few words, and move on." Collins 
slowly to the surface. Thoughts of "What does she look like?" followed close behind. 
Maureen, (I call her Maureen now) entered fully 15 minutes late, but she looked nothing like the Jean Harlow vixen-type I had pictured. She didn't even wear a fur coat or evening gown, subtle clues that success and popularity in the South Bend area hadn't gone to her head. 
After a somewhat delayed, yet polite introduction, I was 
is married and has two children, ages 18 and three. 
Maureen Mcfadden was born and raised in South Bend. She went to Saint Joe High School and graduated from Saint Mary's in 1979. During the time near her graduation, she had an offer to work in promotion and relations for a certain com­pany but she wanted to see if anything else was available. She talked to Kevorkian and he found her a job offer at U-9.3 radio. She accepted it and be­came the U-9.3 morning news reporter. There she met Jim Dorgan, morning DJ at the time, who would soon become her husband (Sorry guys.) She worked in radio for two years before deciding that she had had enough of getting up at 2:.30 a.m. and made the switch over to television reporting. (Initially, however, she rejected an offer from Collins to be a reporter for WNDU because she was camera shy.) She reported and also hosted Studio 16, a half hour talk show, for a year, and then took over the weekend anchor position. About three years ago, when Kathy Ray, the current co­anchor with Collins, left WNDU, Maureen took over her spot and has been there ever since. 
5o what does this famous TV pair think about Notre Dame students today? 'I think they are nne,' McFadden said. 'I'm a little bit biased, however, seeing as though all my brot­hers went there and my dad taught there. Some things stu­dents do I don't always agree with but for the most part they are fine.' 
'Students haven't really changed that much,' Collins said. 'You could take an Obser­ver from ten years ago, change the names, and put It out as today's edition. The same stuff we argued about as students is the same stuff you guys are arguing about. You also are still living in the same rat-traps I lived in. Hey, I lived in Moris­sey and Cavanaugh so I know what you guys go through.' 
5o there you have It, the big story on WNDU-TV. So the next time you are on a tour of the campus and see all the radar dishes off In the distance, you can tell little Johnny all about our real world neighbors. 
welcomed to the world of 
South Bend broadcasting. We 
passed the security precau­
tions, went up the bar-guarded 
staircase and into the rather 
well-decorated conference 
room. True to my assignment 
I began immediately to ques­
tion her about the importance 
of English writing in her field., 
that of a television anchor wo­
man. 
"Writing is very important; it is one of the most important things in this job," she said to my astonishment. She laughed at my apparent shock. "That's one of the common miscon­ceptions about news anchors-­that we just read the news, either off a paper or a teletype machine. Actually, every news anchor writes his own stories, and those are the ones he reads. So if he can't write well, he's going to be the one to look embarrassed." 
"The working day for a news anchor is really quite long." she continued. "1, for example, come into the studio at 4 o'clock and go to my newsroom desk. I don't have a 'dressing room' or office or anything. I guess in that way it's a lot like a newspaper room, with all the reporters having their own desks but no privacy." she smiled and con­tinued. 
"We get the latest news from the wire services; you know them, AP, UPI. In this area we also get local wire services like NJW, Northwest Indiana Wire, and the Michi~an News Wire. We also get feeds from the major networks in Chicago." 
I then asked what happens after they get the facts from a wire service or network feed. 
"Before we do anything. the producer decides who gets to read what stories. He first decides which stories we want to air at all, and then he tries to balance the broadcast out. You know, do that I don't have to read all fluff and my male co-anchor all substance, the hard news. We also trade off reading the first band of stories; I lead one night he leads the next, or whatever." 
She then explained what hap­pens after the stories are divided between the anchors?" 
"We work on writing up the copy we are going to read that evening. That's pretty hard sometimes because you have to have a catchy opening on the stories, to 'catch' the public interest. That's one way in which the writing for news is different. You can't use the nowerly phrases of creative writing class. You have to pres­ent the facts clearly, but you have to make them interest­ing." I asked her consequently if there was any room for crea­tive writing on her job. 
"It's all creative, actually, even though we get the facts. It's just creative in a different way. Making some stories inter­esting takes a lot of creativity. 
But of course you also have be good at the basic writing skills, like grammar. That's ways the most embarrassing because, usually, you notice your grammar mistakes just you're reading the piece the air, and then it's too They actually encourage us read copy out loud before go on the air. Sometimes j before the camera rolls you can see all of us standing around reading copy to our­selves. It looks pretty funny, 
I'm sure." 
After we prepare the for the evening news show, tell the photographer or whoever is involved that we 
ask him to meet the camera crew. Most of that broadcast will be live, so what we have decide as reporters is what 
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 8-9 

en McFadden 
nt to say and what we want 
camera man to be shooting 
f the scene for the program. 
can also tell the camera 
n just how long we want 
m to be taking any partlcu­
shot." 
I then Inquired what kind of audience does she broadcast to? That Is, what Is their target 
ucational or economic back­
Maureen thought 
bout this for a while. 
"Of course I am always con­scious of an audience pres­ence, even though the studio Is empty of bystanders. I guess It's Impossible not to be aware with a camera on my face the whole time. But I pretty much follow station policy when I write the stories up. Reporters here are taught to use "small" words rather than big ones when they can. That doesn't mean that we believe our public Is uneducated. Not at all. Analysis had shown that our station has mainly yuppie­type viewers, the young. well­educated professional crowd. But we also have to realize that the public has only a few seconds to catch what the newscaster Is saying. They don't get to read the copy, and they probably don't get to play back the show or segment they missed. We just try to make It as easy for them as possible. We aren't aiming at the • children; our audience Is 18 and over." 
Speaking of public Image, I thought it about time to ask her about her person on the screen. "The physical is Impor­tant. of course, because everybody likes to have an at­tractive person talk to them, but no on will curl up and die If he finds out the next day that a hair was out of place. I have to wear heavy makeup on the set because the lights bleach out skin tones, but I apply everything myself. There are no makeup rooms, or anything like that." 
Thinking of the dressing room analogy, I asked her If she didn't feel like an actress while on camera at times. 
Maureen just laughed. "I really wish I were more of an actress. I took only one acting class, an Intra, at Saint Mary's when I was there. It would be easier for me on camera if I could remove myself from myself, but I can't. It's funny, I think I am more nervous now to go on the air than I was when I started. Then I was in­nocent. now I know how many, many things can go wrong while I'm up there. It's easier for me to speak In front of a crowd than in front of the camera. I'm more comfortable with real people." 
When asked which classes she had taken during her four years at Saint Mary's to prepare for her job at WNDU, Maureen had to think. "I was a speech 
• 

major when I graduated, so I'm sure I took things like Public Speaking and Oral lnterp., with Reg Baln. if I can remember. I also took a lot of English and writing classes. I really enjoyed taking those. I know I took a journalism class as well, prob­ably newswrlting. I generally took a lot of liberal arts courses, though." 
I checked my watch. It was 4 pm, and I knew she had to start on her long day's work of writing. So I asked my last question on the official list. and the second last question on my mind. "What advice do you have for me, or for anyone else who would like to break Into the business?" 
"Take as many writing courses as you can," she said Immediately. "Write. Read a lot. Take creative writing classes because it can be very impor­tant when you have to pull something catchy out of your head." She smiled at me, and I felt almost ashamed to ask my last question, but I knew my friends would kill me If I didn't. She laughed as she lead me back through the studios and to the door. 
"No, tell your boyfriend and the other guys at Alumni that I don't color my hair. My hus­band and I just went on a short vacation In Florida, and the sun bleached It out. It's funny how people pay attention to those sort of details." 
u 
COLLEEN CLYNES features writer 

t's up, it's now and it's '80s. It's the social alternativeI for Winter '87. Yes, sports fans--it's broomball. And not the version played on ice by seven foot muscled jocks, mind you, but the game any ol' couch potato can master, played on South Bend's own Infamous natural resource. Yup, you guessed It--that white stuff. 
Here's your chance to show off the limits of your broomball dexterity and skill amid the dog eat dog world of TOURNAMENT PLAY. Surprise! This great fun Is all sponsored by your friendly neighborhood SAB. 
Yes, folks, It's Wlnterfest time once again, those two short weeks when we try to battle the February blahs and beer bellies. 
Now, don't panic. We're not like talking (gaspI)... EXERCISE, y'know? Well, okay, maybe you will have to expand your dally regimen above and beyond the call of 
..

the beer can or the Jeopardy-Million Dollar, Chance-of-a­
Lifetime hour (that half-hour channel change can be just agony.) "Broomballlsjust hockey In the snow," ex­
plained tournament co-chairman Mike Arnold. "All you 
need Is a ball and a broom to play and we'll give you all 
that. Just bring your team of five and have fun. Co-ed 
teams are, of course, encouraged." 
Games are scheduled to last about half an hour so frostbite won't be a problem either. The rules for the game are few. The tournament begins Monday, Feb. 9, and continues to Saturday, Feb. 16, assuming that all teams haven't been eliminated by then. "We can't let the game get too rough, and there Is no kicking the ball, but just about everything else Is allowed, "said Arnold. 
"We wanted something different to do In the snow since we do have to live with it, so we figured we'd have this tournament and let people have a little off-the-wall study break." added co-chairman Christian Barrett. 
To top It all off, how about a little fame, fortune, and thrill of victory? I know, you'll just take fortune, but SAB can't provide the beverage money; however It does provide food and tunes. 
"Besides the fact that It'll be a blast, we don't expect you to make a fool out of yourself for nothing. So we have prizes for the top couple of winners like a pizza party at Barnaby's or gift certificates to The Cellar," said Arnold. 
SAB Special Events Commissioner Eric Tlmperman thinks Broomball can become a big part of Wlnterfest, "The tournament Is starting out small-scale now but we would like It to become an annual event, a tradition like Bookstore Basketball," he explained. 
Tlmperman also highlights some other up-and-coming ,. Wlnterfest events. "Winterfest kicks off with a bash Friday night at Theodore's with The Bottom Line. There Is also a Bendix Woods trip, a cross-country ski race,a dorm snow-sculpture contest. and a Multiple Sclerosis Valentine's Day Dance planned--with awards for most of them." 
"Wlnterfest Is just for fun. Don't take It seriously and go out and have a good time," adds Tlmperman. 
So you're sold on broomball and want to know where to sign up? Well, just head on up to the SAB offices on the second floor of Lafortune between 9:30a.m. and 4p.m. with your creative team name and sign on the dotted line. The deadline for team signups Is Thursday, Feb. 5, so hurry and get off that couch. 
If you have any earth-shattering questions or are feeling 
-

a ambitious and want to help out, just give Eric or Mike a call at 1155 or 2:39-7757 and they'll do their best to help you out. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND women's soccer club will have a scrimmage against Saint Mary's tomorrow at Turners. Tournament players should meet at the Library Circle at 7:45p.m. and should wear dark jerseys. Also, anyone in­terested in playing indoor soccer should meet at Gym 1 of the ACC every Wednesday night. For more information contact Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The ND judo club has new practice times for the rest of the semester. The club will meet Wednesdays from 
7:30 to 9:30p.m. and Sundays from 4 to 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. Also, the club will not hold practice this Sun­day because of the tournament. For more information contact Rob (232-6917) or Sara (3427). -The Observer 
A women's softball clinic for players and coaches will be held Saturday, Feb. 14 at Angela Athletic Facility R~g.istration will run from 7:30 to 8:30a.m. the day of th~ chmc. Coaches from various colleges, including Northwes­tern's Dr. Sharon Drysdale, will be featured. Fees are $25 per coach and $10 per student. For more information call 284-5448. -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 9-15 at Stepan Fields. Sign-ups end today from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. at the SAB office. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. For more information contact Mike (1155) or Christian (1300). -The Observer 
~ookstor.e . Basketball XVI applications for assistant comissiOner are still available at the secretary's ~esk on ~he second floor of LaFortune. Anyone interested m applym~ should fill out an application by tomorrow. For more Information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
A cross-country ski race sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 15 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Sign-ups run today through Friday in the SAB office, second floor of LaFortune. Rentals are available. -The Observer 
Synchronized swimming sessions are available at Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information contact Dennis Stark (239-5983) during the day or Tara Creedon (4559) at night. -The Observer 
. Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday m The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune ~tudent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­
bon. -The Observer 
The .ND women's varsity cross-country team Will have a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 5:30 
p.m. at room 127 of the ACC. -The Observer 
Memory 
continuedfrom page 16 
any maintenance workers cut­ting branches off trees would immediately turn into the jubilant Notre Dame players cutting down the nets, a few feet above the mayhem on the floor. The fact is, this year's squad set the type for its place in the pages of Notre Dame history with the upset over North Carolina. They erased the nightmare of blowing an 11­point lead while succumbing to UCLA's pressure defense and the disillusionment of not being able to come up with a big play to overcome West Virginia. This team, seemingly strug­gling to elevate itelf above mediocrity, has skinned the top dog. And nobody will be able to take that away from them. 
But the team must really turn its attention forward to make the big win as beneficial for them as possible. must forget the glory of day on the big stage. I, on 
other hand, am just a fan. I'm going to savor it for a while 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Co~lge Center,_ accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
LOST:On Feb. 2,sllver necklace Need ride to IU-Bioomington or indy for Tix for Anne Murray show in Merriville, Please come to hear Prof. Duasel­To Mo "Break a leg" Connaughton Sat. 2-28 at Bpm. Call after Spm 233-cefebrated apecfaflat In liberation
NOTICES 
wk:ross,ring and charm.Probably at the this weekend. Please call X2913. Hope ya get well soon! But this means ACC track.lf found please call Tim at that you can do stuft with us on
5168. theofogy-dfacuaa the personal con­3450. weekends. Cool dude.
vfctfona that led to hla convictions about the struggle for liberation:

................................................................ Those Diiior>O.C. Guys
WORDPROCESSING TONIGHT at 10:00 P.M. In 341

FOUND! CASSETTES: 8 or 10 music Rob,2n-8131 O'Shaughneaay. This fa lor all theol­
.____FO_R_S_A_LE--JJ I...__P_ER_SO_NA_L_S__,
tapes in a "Tupperware" box along with Todd. 
ogy majora and Interested persona.

a watch. Call Steve Weldy or Kay at 
UNITED LIMO 674-6993. Must identify AIRLINE TIX: OHARE-LAX 13MAR· Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Poten­HELP NEED RIDE TO PURDUETYPING AVAILABLE 
most ol cassettes and watch brand. 22MAR MUST SELL-$280 OR BEST OF· (These items were found at Bus Shelter FER BY 18FEB. CALL LIZ EHRET 4­287-4{)82 
tial to make $6-hr. Call Cindy at 1-600-WKEND 26 CALL LISA £2170. Are you the blue-eyed blond guy 592-2121. glasses in Scanlon's 9:30 TI? I want
at Christmas) 5498 ANYTIME HELP! I had a rough night last Thursday meet you. Reply here
................................................................ 
ADOPTION: We're a happily married 

································································ OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, and lost a gold link bracelet either at Sr.
MAC for Sale II Great Deal On Complete System Under $1,000 I Call 1310couple (physician-psychologist) who LOST: Navy Blue Cordouroy Notre Dame CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE bar or Bridget's. Great sentimental value. Mary Hellmann -Great job on Tuesday's deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd Hockey hat in hockey rink stands 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. If found please call Melissa 272-2478. paper, you ANE goddess. you. --the
................................................................
be sensitive to a child's needs and can Thursday, 1,29 after midnight interhall news editorsFOR SALE: '86 Bertone x19 convertible. Alpine Stereo. Pirelli tires. 4500 miles.
provide a warm loving home where a game. Please call Tony at x4385 it found. 
LOSE WEIGHT FOREVER WITHOUT child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. DIETING WORKSHOP. Beg. Feb 10 5 Help! Ride needed to Holla~d:·;:,;j·~~-2-ii.
............................................................... 
$9900. Call 255-2130.

Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect LOST: Key on NO keyring; student 10, WHOOSHII
wks, 7:30-9:00. $45. Auna Preston PhD. Please call Kara, 284-4145. 
(212) 724-7942. MD driver's license, cash, and photos of 
287-3315. ................................................................ 
Mom and Dad. I'm locked out of my HUMAN LEAGUE!II 
We've got the BALLS and the brooms, house. May have been loa! in car of nice ................................................................ so sign up today lor the WINTERFEST guy who gave me a ride to campus .... Call TICKETS If you are on financial aid-work study and RAY BANS H·u;:.;;;.·N-i:ef..<3l:iEiii................................ '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB Beth: 287-3953 Leave a message il I'm are in the market for making lots of RAY BANS 
RAY BANS

money, come by Irish Gardens and till Need Tlckete Deaparately to both the out an application tor delivery person. Very, very cheap. Best deal in town. HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMING! North Carolina and Duke basketball It Roy Orbison can wear ·em, so can you. 
offices, 2nd noor LaFortunelll not there, PLEASE I Must have own transportation. For appli­
Wordprocesslng-Typing LOST-In Theodore's Fri 11.30. FOOT­;:o···:rHE""'RiV·~·ERA ....NiGHT···cLUB~~ 
games. Either student or GA'e. Call cation and more into, come to irish Gar· Call Tim at £1801.
272-8827 BALL JACKET • blue w' white sleeves. 
CHICAGO FEB. 15 BUS PROVIDED TO "PELHAM VARSITY" on back. No ques­
Eric et 272-9123. dens, basement· of LaFortune. Applica­
CHICAGO--FREE!II tions. Call Scizzy 37 44 tions due Friday at 5:30. 
Famed author and speaker -FATHER

IRISH GARDENS NEED TWO TICKETS FOR DUKE 
JOHN POWELL, S.J. -will speak on 'AnN~--j~;;;;;;~:·:i~~k'··;;i~·;,···i~-;;;,···~;~~;

WINTERFEST '87 CALL DIANE 284 4373 BROOMBALL TOURNEYIII "LIFE, THE GREATEST GIFT" read these, do you?) Joan B. loves you it you are on financial aid' work study LOST: DESIGN OF MACHINE ELE­GAME 
and are In the market lor making lots of MENTS a Lt. Gray ME book and 3 spiral sign up at SAB offices NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 7:30 more than you know.
money, come by Irish Gardens and fill notebooks on Feb. 2, noon, North Dining WEDNESDAY. FEB 4
2nd floor LaFortune ALL ARE WELCOME -SPONSORED FLANN.ER..erH.f=i:CioFi:·H~y·:;·o:i·w-;,;-;,
out an application for delivery person. Hail. It found call Marc x2056. 
Must have own transportation. For appli­I need a DUKE student ticket or GA. Cali BY NOOMC RIGHT TO LIFE
................................................................ do I get my "long cream filled thing"? Cali BROOM BALL II! soon! Love ya, BAR-BAR! 
cation & more information come to Irish LOST: Keys lost at the North Carolina Mary at 2750. 
Gardens, basement of LaFortune. Appli­game. 5 large keys and t small key. It cations. due Friday at 5:30. found PLEASE call 2690. I have $, but do not have 2 DePaul GAs. BROOM BALL!!! 
Thank you to those who attended the ;:,;~:;·-~h~·-·s·~~;~;;···i:;~~rt---~~--:i~~~~·--;;;;

................................................................ Could you help me achieve equi­BROOM BALL! II 
................................................................ 
Lisa Hollenbeck B-Day Party 

Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 2n-ieeeebrium? Please call Bill x1460. BROOM BALLI II adored,glorilied,toved & preserved 7406 BROOM BALL!!! throughout the world now and forever.
Lisa would thank you herself but she is not sure who attended 

................................................................ FOR RENT NEED 2 DUKE TIXI Sacred Heart of Jesus. pray for us . 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL $$$$$ St.Jude, worker of miracles, pray for us.
i.iioio.riiE.iA'sl-...Nii"Nuii..iiusii...:
MRS. COKER. 233-7009. CLARE x2916 St.Jude, the helper of the hopeless. pray STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND We apologize that we are so late in in­
for us. Thank you S!.Jude-AJ PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY forming you of the results of our commit­FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO 
FALL SEMESTER 6838889 NEED 2 GA TIX FOR FEB. 15 DUKE CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME. 
tee's activities; however, an investigation is underway to determine what went I seemed to have misplaced my REV.UE 

GAME. CALL KATHY 284-5310 ·--·c~~~--ch~~~~-F=;·;·s~~i-;,~--8;;~-k--·87'1 ... wrong. She seemed sober enough. list. I think the guys from "THAr-dorm
lOST/FOUND I I 
got a hold of it. Need another clue. CAP­Several members have resigned and the 

Need 3 Duke tix. call Denise £4684 South Padre Island, Daytona Beach,
WANTED 
TAIN KOSHERCommittee to Keep Her Sober has beenSteamboat Springs, Miami Beaciv Fort disbanded.

LOST: men's ring, silver with a red L-------------1 ,-N-EEo·2· oui<E··:rix··;E·,,..HE·ii·a:"A.-oi:i Lauderdale, Mustang island' Port 'Th~~k..~~~··t~·th~~~· ~h~-·~it~·~d;i"ih~·
stone(garnet).lt found please return to SPRING BREAK JAMAICA STU.) SISTERS ARE COMING OUT Aransas, Galveston ISland and Fort Wal­Lisa Hollenbeck B·Day Party 
1124 grace or call me. Ricky--£3024 ton Beach. Call Sunchase Tours Central SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH
Project Manager needed FOR THE WEEKENDII CALL TOM AT Lisa would thank you herselfSpring Break Toil Free Hot Line Today Round trip transportation & 7 ntghtaFREE vacation plus $$$ X-4605 but she is not sure who attended
LOST Heart-shaped Opal. It fell out of for last minute information and reservaw accomodatlona $200. U·Drlve-lt &
1·800-237-2061 its setting 1127. PLEASE if you find it, wA.Nrei:i:··i:i·~-;;~·-(3;;:~·-&·s;:u··,_.,·x:·~~i: 
lions 1-800-321-59111 seven nights eccomodatlona $149. 
Contact Cempue Rep. at 283-4003, orcall 2n-6033. Sentimental value. 

2994 Loretta DC, co-s:r:··i<~v--~~--r:io..'k~~·;;~;;:·-~~~d;~;··ii:i·.
atop by 324 Farley for more Informa­Students needed to help save lives. tion. 
REWARD$$$. 

TICKLING IS MORE FUNI MD driver's license, cash, and photos ot Watch T.V. and earn extra money . New NEED 2 OR 4 DUKE GA'S CALL KEVIN WHEN IS THE NEXT PILLOW FIGHT? Mom and Dad. I'm locked out of myFOUND: B-Ball Tix after Marquette game 
donors or former donors who haven't 2165 SOON? house. May have been lost in car of nice 
-near GrottO'S! Mary's Lake call 2885 to I need a ride to Purdue on 213-15 Greg 
donated plasma in the last 30 days will guy who gave me a ride to campus .... Call 
identify and claim 2727 be paid $11.00 following initial or return Need 2 Duke GA'sll Call Tom £ 4n2 Beth: 287-3953 Leave a message ~ I'm donation. Bring this ad to: American ................................................................ not there, PLEASE!
-LOST: Room Keys(318) & others on ring SECOND CITY TOURING COMPANY The Definition of "DORM" is La LaPlasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. I NEED 2 DUKE GA'S: PAUL 2364
with a charm which has "SAJ" on front. Thurs., Feb. 5th; 7 & 9:30 shows 
LaRose f..ct~~ii~·:ii;;-~;;;~~~-~;·i~~~j;~:·;;~;~-~~;;

5 blocks west of Burger King on US 2()1 Druid neede Duke GAs Feb. 3&4 
It found call Scott 1609 Tlx S4 sold at Wash. Hall from 7-9 p.m. 
Lincolnway West. Phone 234-6010. despise, and that was on a good day! 
LOST:a gold link bracelet last Thursday Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. Andy 1650 LOVE? HATE? DESPISE? ·····~ ................... ''!:.·.•.•.o.o•:.••!!''!.''"'"'''''''"'"''" at the b-bali game, Sr. bar, or Bridget's. ..................................... 
STUDENT SoEALS KEG HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut
Great sentimental value. It found please BENDIX WOODS HEY GuYs. wANNA GEr.t:u·c:i<·v·:rHis Part 3 of 5 call Melissa at 272-24 78. wants drivers with own car and in~ TWO GA'S NEEDED FOR WED Thurs. Feb. 12 VALENTINE'S DAY? COME TO THE in response to reports of Anne Marie's surance.Call277-2662 or stop by 138112 NIGHT'S GAME FOR MY PARENTS. Sign-ups thru Friday In SAB oHicee COUNTRY HARVESTER IN THE alleged sexual escapades Police psy­Dixie Way No. in Roseland.
LOST: BLACK COOPER HOCKEY HELP ME OUT, CALL 3120. tlx $5 (Incl. bus) LAFORTUNE BUILDING FOR GREAT chologist Brian said, "She obvi­GLOVE AT ACCONTHURSDAY NIGHT V-DAY IDEAS FOR YOUR SWEET­ously needed to release some sexual ten­
................................................................ 
BEFORE ALUMNI-'SORIN GAME. RIDE NEEDED: MIAMI, OH. FEB. 6-8. HEART. sion. I've seen this thousands of times.
4 SENIORS ROADTRIPPING TO 
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 287·6622. CALL ROB -1627. BROOMBALL SIGN-UPS Some women suffer from uncontrollable
KANSAS. NEED TIX. CALL 4334 OR 
REWARD OFFERED. WINTER FESTIVAL sexual urges. It they are supressed long 
1499. i:io.ME·-~9~i~ii.ooME·-~·;;;;t~--~;~-i;~~j;ii
NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR atgn up thru Wed. In SAB oHicee from enough some thing like this happens."
Watch for more info ..... 

EASTER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES.
FOUND: one pair of eyeglasses in the 9-4:30 "I was amazed at her carefree sexual
NEED 2 GA's FOR DEPAUL GAME. 
Engineering Auditorium Friday night after CALL JACK x1666 or DAN x1719 $3 per team attitude. Even I had to say 'no!' to some
CALL 4334. 

-the movies. Call Chas, x1766 University of Michigan SAE's thank of the things she wanted to do out there. 
SUMMER JOBS ................................................................ KAREN LUDWIG I couldn't have done any of it it I didn't I lost a small gold keychain last Friday ALL LAND AND WATER SPORTS I NEED DUKE GA'S. PLEASE CALL APPLICATIONS FOR SAB POSITIONS for extending our 12-hour BASH into a quaff 30 brews before hand." stated Jim at Theodore's. It is oval and the name available on 2nd floor LaFortune 16-hour PARTYISLEEPOVER • . alleged participant in the nude
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK CATHY AT 2892. MOUNTAINS
"KIM" is engraved on one side. It you applications due Feb. 13; lor more In­Lovewn-Kisses, games, at an afternoon news conference. found it, please call 2845. I really want CALL JERRY COLLECT AM 914 381-Need 2 Duke GA's. Please Call Mickey fo., atop by SAB oHtce your MAN in uniform Continued Thursday to get back into my room! 4224 at 2742. 
February 4, 1987 The Observer page 11 
S)Jorts Wednesda)' 
Sports Lists 
Why Arnerica'sCup Yachts Are Called''12-Meters" 
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THEIR SIZE 
The length of the boat's waterline, PLUS TWICE the depth of the hull at the midpoint of the waterline, PLUS the SQUARE ROOT of the surface of measured sail area, MINUS the height of the deck above the water, DIVIDED BY 2.37 
-
==12 ­
SOURCE: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER MAGAZINE 
lnterhall Hockey AP Top 20 
Blue Dlvlalon Baaketball w L T GF GA Pta. The Top Twenly college baskelball teams In The OH Campus 3 0 0 17 3 6 Associated Press poll, with first-place votes In paren· Grace 2 0 0 13 theses, this season's records and total points. Points Dillon 2 1 0 14 4 4 based on 20·19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
Cavanaugh' 2 2 0 9 13 4 are Italicized. Howard Flenner 1 2 0 6 13 2 1. Nevada-Las Vagas (48) 21-1 1,243 
Carrotll Keenan 1 2 0 4 17 2 2. Indiana (1 0) 17·2 1,181 
St. Ed'IV Holy 0 4 0 5 14 0 3. North Carolina (4) 18·2 1,148 4. Iowa (1) 19·2 999 5. DePaul 18·1 935 6. Temple 20·2 929 7. Purdue 16·3 856 6. Oklahoma 17·3 831 
Gold Dtvlalon 9. Alabama 16·3 665 10. Georgetown 15·3 626 3 0 0 20 2 6 11. Syracuse 17·3 556 2 1 1 16 11 5 12. Clemson 19·2 499 3 3
1 0 1 1 13. Pittsburgh 17·4 474 1 0 3 1 3 
14. Illinois 15·5 467 0 1 1 4 8 1 . 15. Texas Christian 18·3 458 0 2 0 1 16 0 
16. Duke 16·4 394 
0 3 0 5 10 0 17. Providence 16·3 229 16. Kansas 15·5 196 19. St. John's 14·4 146 20. Auburn 12·6 85 
Others receiving votes: Michigan 73, Memphis State 
Btua Dtvtaton Raaulte 60, Florida 53, Notre Dame 31, Navy 15, New Or· Dillon 7, Cavanaugh! Howard 1 leans 13, Oregon State 10, Ohio State 9, Montana Ofl Campus vs. Flanner. late State 8, Western Kentucky 7, Kansas State 5, 
Cleveland State 4, Virginia 4, Wyoming 4, Seton 
Gold Dtvtolon Reoulto Hall 3, Arkansas-Little Rock 2, Brigham Young 2, Momsaey 5, Fisher 2 Texas·EI Paso 2, UCLA 2, Marshall 1, Middle Ten· Alumm vs. Zahm, late nessee 1, Northeastern 1, Tulsa 1. 
No:. Star Conference Irish Wrestling 
Conference Standtngo Records through Sunday
w L Pet. GB Dayton 2 0 1.000 
DePaul I 0 1.000 .5 118 pounds -Andy Redenbaugh 27·7·1 Notre Dame 1 2 .333 1.5 Marquette 0 2 .0 2 126 pounds -Dave Carlin 9·6·1 
Ovaroll Standing• 134 pounds -Jerry Durso 23·4·0
DePaul 15 .789 Dayton 7 10 412 7 
142 pounds -Pat Boyd 24·6·0
Notre Dame 5 12 .294 9 Marquette 5 12 .294 9 150 pounds -Ron Wisniewski 14·11·0 
Laat W•k'o Raautta 158 pounds ·Mike Sheets 3·6·0 Dayton 55, Notre Dame 54 Notre Dame 95, Marquette 60 
167 pounds ·Chris Geneser 23·3·0 
Miami (Ohio) 67, Dayton 50 DePaul 92. Northern Illinois 83 
1n pounds -Dave Helmer 8·15·1
DePaul 84, Illinois-Chicago 64 Western Michigan at Notre Dame, late Marquette at Wisconsin-Milwaukee, late Heavyweight ·Mike Crounse 3-3·0 
.  ~  
.... '  SENOR  
KELLY'S  
I 19 NORTH MICHIGAN  
:It  S.B.'s#I  IRISH-MEXICAN  
RESTAURANT  

Wednesdays MUG of BEER 75 cents 
free munchies! 
I 0% off all dinners with NDSMC 234-5389 
J.D. 


Sports Calendar 

Eastern Conference Welaa Conference 
Honie games in CAPS

Allanite Dlvtoton Adema Dtvlalon 
w L Pet. GB w L T GF GA Pto. Boston 33 12 .733 Hartford 27 20 6 179 175 60 TodayPhiladelphia 27 19 .587 6.5 Montreal 26 23 7 185 176 59 
Men's basketball vs. LaSALLE

Washington 23 22 .511 10 Boston 26 21 5 193 167 57 New York 14 32 .304 19.5 Quebec 21 26 7 174 173 49 New Jersey 11 34 .244 22 Buffalo 16 30 6 175 201 38 
Thursday

Central Dlvtaton 
Patrick Dlvtaton Wrestling vs. MICHIGAN STATE Detroit 29 15 .659 Atlanta 29 16 .644 .5 Philadelphia 34 15 4 223 154 72 Milwaukee 28 21 .571 3.5 N.Y. Islanders 25 21 6 184 174 56 Friday 
Chicago 22 22 .500 7 Washington 22 24 8 175 197 52 Men's basketball at Vanderbilt 
Indiana 20 25 .444 9.5 N.Y. Rangers 21 23 8 207 205 50 
Hockey at Air Force

Cleveland 18 27 .400 11.5 New Jersey 21 27 5 192 242 47 Pittsburgh 19 24 6 190 187 46 
Men's swimming at Bradley Weatam Conference Mtdweat Dlvtaton Campbett Conference 
w L Pet. GB Smythe Dvlalon Dallas 29 16 .644 w L T GF GA Pta SaturdayUtah 27 18 .600 2 Edmonton 35 15 4 252 185 74 
Houston 23 22 .511 6 Winnipeg 28 20 5 186 163 61 Indoor track at Orange and Blue Classic Denver 22 25 .468 8 Calgary 26 23 2 2'10 207 58 Hockey at Air Force San Antonio 17 29 .370 12.5 Los Angeles 22 24 6 217 214 50 
Women's basketball vs. MIAMI (FLA.)

Sacramento 14 31 .311 15 Vancouver 16 32 6 179 218 38 Pactltc Dtvtalon Men's fencing at Ohio State 
Norrlo Dtvlalon Women's fencing at Ohio State L.A. Lakers 34 11 .756 
Men's swimming vs. KALAMAZOO

Portland 29 19 .604 6.5 
Minnesota 23 21 7 197 185 53 
Women's swimming vs. BALL STATE

Seattle 25 20 .556 9 
Detroit 21 23 8 161 179 50
Golden State 25 23 .521 10.5 SMC basketball vs. TAYLOR
St. Louis 19 23 9 176 196 47Phoenix 19 28 .404 16 Chicago 19 26 8 190 212 46 SMC swimming vs. NORTH CENTRAL 
L.A. Clippers 7 38 .156 27 Toronto 197
20 28 5 182 45 
Sunday

Laat Night's Reautto Leal Nlght'o Reaulto Philadelphia 99, Indiana 94 Quebec 4, Montreal 1 
Men's basketball at Kansas Atlanta 126, Boston 123 OT Edmonton 4, St. Louis 2 Wrestilng vs. Central Michigan Chicago 98, Washington 91 Vancouver 4, Calgary 2 New York 110, Milwaukee 109 Denver 107, Houston 105 Tonight'a Gamea Monday San Antonio 111, Golden State 103 Buffalo at Hartford 
No sports scheduled

Utah 101, Sacramento 95 Quebec at Montreal Portland 117, Phoenix 103 Washington at N.Y. RangersTonight's Gamea Los Angeles at Toronto TuesdayCleveland at Boston Philadelphia at Winnipeg 
Men's swimming at Illinois-Chicago

Philadelphia at New Jersey Detroit at Chicago Seattle at Dallas Edmonton at Minnesota Women's swimming at Illinois-Chicago Sacramento at L.A. Lakers N.Y. Islanders at Vancouver SMC basketball at Bethel 
lnterhall Basketball Irish Hockey 
Results from Jan. 28 to Feb. 3 Through Sunday 
PLAYEA, POS. GP G A PTS PIM PPG SHG GW Mike McNeill, C 20 12 13 25 20 4 0 2
Men's Results 
Tom Mooney, C 20 8 7 15 30 2 1 1
ECAC 

Tim Kuehl, RW 20 11 9 20 38 6 0 1
Cavanaugh B 39, Zahm B 37 20T 
Matt Hanzel, LW 16 6 9 15 2 3 0 0
Cavanaugh B 43, St. Ed's B 28 
Rich Sobilo, RW 16 4 5 9 10 1 0 0 Robert Herber, RW 18 4 6 10 10 0 0 1 Big Sky Kevin Markovitz, D 20 1 13 14 26 1 0 0 Cavanaugh A 43, St. Ed's A 28 Robert Bilton, C 20 4 4 8 4 0 0 0 Pat Foley, D 20 4 7 11 26 3 0 0 Bruce Guay, W 20 4 4 8 35 1 0 0
ACC 

Tom Smith, LW 12 2 7 9 18 1 0 0
Alumni A 1 70. Carroll 58 
Tim Caddo, D 16 1 3 4 4 0 0 0 Women's Result 0 0
Tom Fitzgerald, LW 8 2 0 2 2 0 Lance Patten, D 20 1 5 6 34 0 0 0Lyons 65, Farley B 11 
John Nickodemus, LW 17 1 1 2 10 0 0 1 Roy Bemiss, D 16 2 3 5 31 0 0 0
Note: most scores have not been re­
Brian Montgomery, C 16 0 2 2 6 0 0 0ported to NVA. Captains are reminded 
Michael Leherr, D 19 2 1 3 12 0 0 2 to fill out a results form for every game Frank O'Brien, D 19 1 4 5 20 0 0 0 at NVA. John Welsch, C 19 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Tim Lukenda, G 6 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Erik Galis, RW 9 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Bench 2
College Basketball 
NOTRE DAME 20 70 104 173 341 20 1 8 
East OPPONNETS 20 78 108 186 323 14 2 12 Army 68, Fordham 67, OT Boston Coil. 67, Providence 66 Boston U. 72, New Hampshire 58 SCORING BY PERIODS 1 2 3 OT TOT Fairfield 66, Holy Cross 54 Notre Dame 12 25 22 1 70 lone 88, Southern Connecticut 67 Opponents 21 21 22 1 78 St. Peter's 75, Connecticut 50 Penn 69, Princeton 68 (Period-by-period scoring not available for North Dakota St. series.) Syracuse 84, Seton Hall 80 West Virginia 79, Alabama-Birmingham 64 GOALTENDERS MIN ACD G GAA SVS PCT so 
Lance Madson 603 4·5·0 37 3.83 262 .874 0 
South Tim Lukenda 326 2·4·0 21 3.44 111 .648 0 Alabama St. 99, Florida A&M 94 Jeff Henderson 180 2·1·0 6 2.00 89 .937 0 Jacksonville 102, Morgan St. 66 North Carolina-Asheville 73, Eastern Ken· NOTRE DAME 1216 8·12-D n· 3.83 532 .870 0 tucky 72 OPPONENTS 1216 12·6-D 70 3.54 479 .872 1 
Midwest *Does not include one open-net goal Anderson 87, Earlham 61 (Individual goaltending totals do not include North Dakota St. series.) 
jClti11~\I~S 
The Saint Mary's Literary Magazine 
SObering 

is now considering 
Advice .~ 

"'Poems "' Photos 
•
• can~

"' Stories "'Drawings 
alife /., · 

* Plays 
-~·
.. 

• 
Submit to: Chimes Magazine do Max Westler 
• 

31 0 Madeleva Hall : 



~~-----~. ---~----~-~ --~ 
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 12
The Observer 


....  
AP Photo  
Derrick Coleman and the nth-ranked Syracuse Orangemen handled Seton Hall, 84-80, last night in college roundball action. Sports  Wednesday has more scoreworld on page 11.  s from the college  

Knight fights back against council criticism by putting his nose in council flower debate 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Indiana Coach Bob Knight is of­fering his help in resolving a Faculty Council debate on flowers. He says it's his way of showing his appreciation for the council'sinterest in basket­ball. 
Knight, referring to the coun­cil's recent condemnation of verbal and physical abuse of athletes by coaches, sarcastically said he wasn't up­set with the intrusion into his domain. 
And in his weekly television show on Sunday, Knight referred to a bouquet of red 

NV A Olympiad brings people out to compete for Special Olympics 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
While the real Olympic Games are still a year away, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be able to partic­ipate in their own Late Night Olympics, Friday, February 13 from 9 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the ACC. 
Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olym­pics, the Late Night Olympics will pit 12 teams of combined dorms against each other in a large Olympic-style sports competition. In addition, there will be a Not-Quite-So-Olympic Games for those who decide to just drop in. 
"We're looking for each team to register and participate in every event," said Sally Deren­goski, Assistant Director of NVA. 
The Olympic sports will in­clude a co-ree obstacle course, broomball, and innertube water polo. Also planped are water lacrosse and Nerf foot­ball for men, as well as tour­naments for men and women in volleyball, indoor soccer, basketball, and racquetball. 
The teams will be made up of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dorms. Each team antes $100, and earns points for participating in as well as win­ning events. The overall points winner and St. Joseph County Special Olympics will split the proceeds from the event. The grand prize will be awarded and distributed among the two or three halls of the winning team. Donations to the Special Olympics will be accepted. 

Students interested in par­ticipating in the Olympic sports should contact their dorm rep­resentative. The deadline for registration is Monday, February 9. 
In addition to the Olympic events, the Not-Quite-So­Olympic Games also will be held. These games will include such sports as darts, putt-putt, Nerf basketball, pool, and a celebrity dunk tank. 
A Soc Hop will be held by WVFI and the Student Activi­ties Board in the Monogram Room, while University Food Services will sponsor an Olym­pic Village Cafe on the main concourse. 
Derengoski claims the key to the Late Night Olympics is the advanced registration. 
"I have no doubt that people will be interested and excited," she said. "They have to contact their dorm reps for all the in­
formation." 
"We have all the halls com­mitted, with great support from the Hall President's Council," she added, noting that no dorm events have been planned that would conflict with the Late Night Olympics. 
The event will use nearly every facility in the ACC, in­cluding the ice rink, fieldhouse, and pools. 
"We have so much planned, this should go over big," said Derengoski, who also hopes this will become an annual event. "We are fortunate to have so many people interested in making it a success." 
People who fail to sign up for the Olympic sports will not be left out. The Not-Quite-So­Olympic events, the dance, and other events are planned for drop-ins. 
The 12 teams taking part in the Olympic competition, meanwhile, will be constituted in the following manner: PangbornCarrolWarley, Fis­herMowardPasquerilla West, St. Ed'&SoriM..yons, Alumni /August&McCandless, Cavanaugh Moly Cross(ND) !Breen-Phillips, DillorvRegina, Flanner !Walsh, Grace-Badin, Keenan Moly Cross(SMC), Morrissey !Pasquerilla East, Stanford-Lewis, and Zahm !LeMans. 
SMC sets new goal for itself after 65-56 win over St. Fran 
By MARISA A KOSLA Sports Writer 
After defeating league rival St. Francis, 65-56, Saturday at the Angela AthletiQ Facility, the Saint Mary's basketball team has set a new goal. For the win Saturday pushed the Belles record on the season to 8-5 and moved them one step closer to District competition. 
"The team has really pulled together," said Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood. "After this weekend's big win the squad is treating every game like a playoff game." 
The keys to the victory over St. Francis came from an ag­gressive offense led by fresh­man Julie Radke, who posted 17 points. Junior Tammye Radke, meanwhile, also chipped in with 11 points while Rachel Bir added 10 points. 
The Belles attribute their recent success to a much greater utilization of their strengths. A balanced offense, coupled with intense rebound-
HAPPY BIRTHDA 
JQJYESi 
COME BACK 
SOON! 
WITH LOVE, THE CHUCK'S GIRLS 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Speciat-~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
ing, have placed the team at the top of the NAJA. 
The squad, however, realizes their weakness in the area of consistency, and knows it must maintain an unrelenting inten­sity if it is to reach its new goal of going to Districts. 
"We are the talk of the dis­trict," noted Wood, "because we have beaten some of the best teams while falling to other opponents." 
Another thing Wood and his Belles squad must have if they are going to play in the postseason is the continued contributions of players such as senior Kim Pantelleris, junior Stephanie Duke, and sophomore Jennifer Harte, each of whom complements the Radke sisters and Bir on the court. 
The Belles as a team, mean­while, will get the opportunity to move another step closer to their new goal when they take on Taylor University Saturday at 1 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 

roses placed between him and host Chuck Marlowe, telling viewers to be sure not to miss the third segment of his show when he would explain the sig­nificance of the flowers. 
When the segment of the show arrived, Knight began: 
"I just kind of figured that the taxpayers of Indiana have paid my salary to coach bas­ketball and I've not gotten into teaching geometry, or physics, or philosophy or anything else," he said. "I've just tried to stick to basketball. 
"To me, I'm not at all upset with that. Knowing how much time I have to put into teaching basketball, for those professors to take time away from their classrooms and their students, to devote it to basketball, just pleases me tremendously, Chuck." 
"I've g6t a suggestion. Since our (university) colors are red and white and everbody likes those colors, why not roses? What's more emblematic of America and what's good about America than roses." 
Knight urged all those who "like roses and the idea of red and white roses instead of petunias or daffodils, write a note to the Bloomington Fac­ulty Council, simply care of In­diana University, Bloomington, Indiana. 

Com12uter Science & MIS Students 
SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
,. 


he rush of 
right credentials for adrenaline. The ACCENT. 
surge of excite­If you're a highly­
ment. The flash motivated person, an in­of inspiration. Familiar dependent worker, and feelings to talented DP an innovative thinker, professionals at The you have the right chem­Travelers. And to the Istry for ACCENT. promising graduates Now make the right 
who'll join us this year. 
You've discovered these feelings in your academic work. Recognized them In the elegance of advanced technology. And now you can share in them at The Travelers, where the support is stronger, the environment more sophisticated and the applications more challenging. 
As a distinguished Computer Sci­ence or MIS graduate; you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. A fast-paced, competitive program. Offering technical and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced DP environments in the financial services industry-including the largest IMS shop, 18 IBM mainframes and a 36,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of DP technology doesn't stop tnere. We've recently installed 13,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're developing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer sci­ence, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
move. To The 'Fravelers ACCENT pro­gram. Where you'll find varied and valuable learning experiences. A sup­portive human environment and a sophisticated technical one. And where you'll find plenty of opportunities to help move you ahead. 
You'll also receive a competitive sal­ary, complete benefits and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus gen­erous relocation assistance to our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer-oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration is shared by all. 
Find out ~ore a.-~out signing up for The Travelers tnretvtew scftedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, February 27. Or, send your resume to: Priscilla Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
Data Processing for Dedicated People. 

TheTravelerSJ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 


.. 
The Observer 
Broncos 
continuedfrompage 16 
Bunek and Botham were not to 
be denied late in the game. 
"This was a good game for 
both Heidi and Sandy, and 
that's very important for us," 
DiStanislao said. "(Western 
Michigan) knew we were 
looking inside and they really 
packed it down. Our ball move­
ment made it so that some gaps 
would open up, and the girls 
found them. It's a real plus to 
see both of them playing well 
at the same time." . The Irish led by as much as 
12 points early in the second 
half after poor shooting (39 per­
cent) plagued Western Mic­
higan in the first 20 minutes, 
but the Broncos' speed began 
to pay off with just over 10 
minutes to play. 
Some nifty inside moves by 
leading Bronco scorer Shannon 
Pickell (17 points) brought 
Western Michigan closer and 
closer, and a Tracy Wells feed 
to Alletta Miller off a fast break 
with slightly less than eight 
minutes to play gave the 
visitors their only lead of the 
game at 52-51. 
A pair of Botham fade-a ways from the baseline put Notre Dame back on top, however, and some key rebounding and inside play down the stretch locked up the win for the Irish, their second in a row. 
"One crucial thing that we've got to work on is our rebound­ing," said DiStanislao, whose squad outboarded the smaller Broncos, 41-39. "We said ear­lier that we had to improve our numbers somewhere, and that rebounding was a good place to do it. We've been having the guards hit the boards a lot more recently and it worked pretty well tonight." 
So well, in fact, that Gavin collected a personal-best eight rebounds in the game, while Toney added six. 
For Western Michigan, last night's loss was its third in a row after starting the cam­paign on a blistering pace. It was also the first time the Broncos have been held to less than 60 points all season. 
The Irish will look to make it three in a row on Saturday when they face a quick Miami (Fla.) team at 1 p.m. at the ACC. 
Last night's Results 
Notre Dame 65, Western Michigan 58 
Western Michigan (58) 
M FG·A FT·A R F P Goldner 29 4-7 2-2 6 3 1 0 Miller 30 4-9 1-3 2 0 9 Pickell 25 7-14 3-6 3 4 17 Klare 28 4-18 0-0 5 3 8 Wells 37 4-8 0-0 7 2 8 Laliberte 10-0 0-0000 Schmidt 80-30-0310 McDonald 14 1-4 0-0 3 1 2 Thompson 28 2-4 0·0524 
00 26-67 6·11 34 16 58 
FG Pet. -.388. FT Pet. -.545. Team rebounds -5. Turnovers -12. Assists-10 (Miller 4). Technicals -. 
Notre Dame (65) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Schwartz 31 4-11 1-2 3 1 9 Bunek 36 8-12 3-6 11 2 19 Botham 34 6-12 3·5 10 4 15 Gavin 37 5-10 1·2 8 2 11 Toney 32 3-10 3-4 6 1 9 ~migholz 17 1-2 0-0 1 3 2 Elliott 10 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Mahoney 10-0 0·0000 Barron 2 0-0 0-0000 
00 27-58 11-19 39 13 65 
FG Pet. -.466. FT Pet. • .579. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -23. Assists -20 (Gavin 11 ). Technicals -. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 34, West. Mich. 25. Officials -Terry Gibbons, Lou Pitt, A -106. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 14 



Craig Conlin. who, despite Irish opponents have had tostanding only 6-6, is averaging deal with this season--a stingyclose to 10 points a game. 
defense. While the ExplorersThose five have started average 76.5 points per game,every game for the Explorers. 
the Irish are holding opponents The attack is balanced, with to an average of only 59 points Legler having the highest a contest. scoring average (19.5 ppg.) and the playmaker Tarr having the IRISH ITEMS--LaSalle is 0-7 lowest average (9.1 ppg.). against Notre Dame in the 
With an injury to center­ACC...Approximately 100 tick­forward Eric Lee, the Ex­ets for tonight's game, plorers use only two players off returned by LaSalle, are avail­
the bench. Forward Ron able at the ACC Gate 10 ticket Barnes averages 4.2 rebounds window. 


WED: ..... St. Elsewhere and ......... St. Pauli Girl $1 
THURS:...Pizza & Pitchers $3.0C ......... Come watch your favorite TV Shows! 
BAND: .... DM51 

::J 
1:1:: 
iS 
~ 
Q 
1:1:: 
::J 0 :t 
'It' 
C'i 
::J 
1:1:: 
iS 
~ 
Q 
1:1:: 
::J 0 :t 
'It' 
C'i 
LaSalle 
continued from page 16 
LaSalle's starting five is rounded out by sophomore a game, while sophomore guard Len Robinson, a starter last season, contributes 3.1 points a game. 

LaSalle, however, will have to ·deal with a problem many 

NAUGLES® 272-5455 
TO YOUR DORM! '• NITELY 5-12 
"0\)~~\) 
TACO'S 
Crisp Taco 1.00 Soft Taco 1.25 Fajita Taco t•"""l 1.50 Macho Taco 1.75 
::J 
1:1:: 
i;:t
BURRITO'S 
Bean Burrito 1.50 
Meat Burrito 2.25 
Combo Surrito 2.00 cg
Cheese Burrito 1.75 
== 
Make It Macho or Wet Additional .75 ::Jo 
g~
'llt'm 
N-1
SALADS 
:t 

'J.~~~  
~~  
NACHOS  
Nachos & Cheese  1.25  
Macho Nachos  2.25  
Beans & Cheese  

FROM THE GRILL 
I>RINKS 
Salad Platter 2.75 

Tostada Grande 3.25 c:= Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Slice, Root Beer, Dr. Pepper, Lemonade, Ice Tea 
Liters 1.00 
NEW PLAITERS 

Milk Shakes 1.25 
Enchilada 3.00 Soft Taco 3.00 Ranchero• 3.00 Fajita-Steak• 3.75 

501 Dlxleway North 
(Includes Beans-Cheese, Salad & Entree) 

Roseland 
•With Sour Cream 

272-5455 
FOR LARGER APPETITES 

Plus Tax on Above Prices 
DINNERS AVAII.ABLE 

6.00 Minimum Order 
4.75 


• 

'JI['~~ttll~------------------------------------------------------·W--ed•n•e•sd•a•y•,F•e•b•r•ua•r•y•4•'•1~.7.-.p.a•g•e..
15 Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
t.Oi.A . WHY fJ!fJ 8eCAV5t 

fJ(ff I t./Kc Wfl 711~ MY lr'5 rrmiU.Y 
II Cf}{.P 

CEREAl. IJ(}Wt. R!PICV®.S 
C£r<£1/t. 80WL.... (}(ff Of 1H6 1HI1f YO!/ KttP 
I'lle" ~N 
fl(lr£ .? 1r mtl?t. 
t?tff(I&£RIIrtN& 
T!leM tvtli' 5/MCE 
I Wl/5 II t.ITTlE

I -------­
KIP. 
I 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
OUR COHftANf)ER·/AI-CH/£F
rr 511YS HER£ THIJ THE. 
KNEW NoTHING

5£NII[f ff!OB£ HAS Fn.JN!J 
SO...
Al?a.JT t1/LLf()NS
REA61lN INNfX.£N T OF IJA ­
OF lXJL/..ARS IN ARt15 "'­

111V6 /iff! KNaJ l[/X>E CFTH£ 
' SHtff1Efllr<; ..

IRAIJ{CNTRA 
AffAIR 

12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15-1:00 p.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality Spring, 1987 Series, Theme: the Catholic Experience. "The Catholic Experience and Lay Spirituality,'' by Keith J. Egan, SMC, Stapleton Lounge 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering Seminar, "Three-Dimensional Instability of Boundary Layers," by Dr. Thorwald Herbert, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, Microsoft Works Spreadsheet, Room 108 Computing Center, limit of 10, to register call Betty 239-5604 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "The Dynamics of Nerve Nets in the Brain: A New Challenge for Theoretical Physics," by Dr. John W. Clark, Washington Univer­sity, St. Louis Room 118 Niewland Science Hall 
6:45-8:00 p.m.: SMC Sexuality Education Council's The Gender Agenda, Theme: Women and Self Esteem, Catherine Hale, SMC, Haggar Parlor 
7:00 p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Se­ries,' 'The General,'' 1962, IYW, 79 minutes, directed by Buster Keaton, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
7:00, 9:30 & 12:00 p.m: Movie, "One Flew Over a Cuckoos' Nest," $1.50 , Engineer­ing Auditorium 
Sab Presents: 
7:00-10:00 p.m.: Natural Family Planning Class for Married and Engaged Couples, Part II, Hayes-Healy Auditorium Spon­sors: University Ministry and Natural Family Planning of St. Joseph County 
7:30 
p.m. Basketball, NDM vs. LaSalle, ACC 

7:30 
p.m.:ND-SMC Right to Life Lecture, "Life: The Greatest Gift," by Rev. Fred Powell, S.J., Loyola University, Chic Library Auditorium 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Meatloaf Indv. Turkey Pot Pie Seafood Cantonese Hot Open Face Cheese Sub 

Saint Mary's 
Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Swedish Pancakes Baked fish wSweet and Sour Sauce Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Lip 5 Charles' dog 9 Vacation 
reading 14 Alongside of 15 "One small-
for man" 16 God of mirth 17 Diva's song 18 Sharpen 19 Push forward 20 Lucille's 
vacation vehicle 23 Untouched 
by evil 24 Singleton 25 "-goes by" 28 Success 30 Engrossed 34 Cramp 35 Card game 36 Measure of 
music 37 Words on a 
postcard 41-poetica 42 Took advan­
tage of 43 Frizz hair 44 Recess 46 Spread hay 
to dry 47 Composed verse 48 Grain 50 "Honi -qui 
mal ... " 51 Voyager's way 
in old song 59 Menu 60 Beginning at 61 Short jacket 62 Horse-racing 
meeting 63 Accept 64-avis 65 Melts 66 Hastened 67 "Desire Under 
the-" 
DOWN 1 Used the pool 2 County in 
Yorkshire 3 Ado 



101987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
4 Fairly keen 5 On land 6 Fur scarf 7 Mind 8 Copies 9 Offspring 
10 Surfer's joy 11 Body of Kaffir 
warriors 12 Peat or coal 13-of Capri 21 Delicious 22 Drive 25 Egyptian dam 26-Agnew 27 lt. epic poet 28 Turned left 29 Angered 31 Nautical 2/4/87 
word 40 "-, you with 53 Killer whale 32 Analyze the stars ... " 54 Matinee 
sentences 45 Pay homage times: abbr. 33 Cornered 47 Took lodgings 55 Springe 35 Join 49 Aids 56 Type: abbr. 38 -lunch 50 Feed a fire 57 Standard 
(store sign) 51 Word to tabby 58 Anecdote 39 Moral 52 Flagellate collections 


SAB presents 
... Applications for NAZZ 
One Flew Over the 
COMPETITION... 
Cuckoo's Nest
for all those musically 
inclined (or not?)" 
Tonight and Thursday! EG Auditorium 
Pick up at SAB office Cash Prizes 
7,9:30,12 pm $1.50 
(2nd floor Lafortune) (more info available 
Absolutely no food or drink allowed! 

now until Feb 13 with application) 


SRorts 
Irish send out message with win over Broncos 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team used Tuesday night's contest against Western Michigan to send out a message to the remaining schools on its 1986-87 schedule. 
Attention, all who are expect­ing the 6-12 Irish to roll over and play dead: this team is playing some ball. 
The high-powered, run-and­gun Broncos made a contest of last night's 65-58 Notre Dame victory with a timely second­half spurt, but the Irish con­trolled both ends of the floor for most of the game and kept their composure in the waning minutes to seal the win. 
"Western Michigan is not a 13-5 team for nothing," said Notre Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao. "They're very ag­gressive and scrappy--a senior 

LaSalle hoping for big ND letdown as teams prepare to battle tonight 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Here's the picture. The Irish are just off one of the biggest wins in Notre Dame basketball history. The players have been watching tapes of the NBC coverage. Banners are flying from dorm windows. Fans are still congratulating the players on the victory. 
Meanwhile, LaSalle is in town preparing for tonight's 
7:30 contest at the ACC. The Explorers have to be hoping for the one thing which usually fol­lows big victories--an Irish let­down. 
"We have to put that all be­hind us," said Irish forward Mark Stevenson. "We still have some tough games left. We'll team. When it was crunch time, they came out and crunched. 
"It's frightening when a team throws a press on you-­especially a successful one--but I thought Didi (sophomore Diondra Toney) and Mary (junior Mary Gavin) really controlled the game when they had to." 
Gavin dished out 11 assists and added 11 points in the game, while Toney chipped in for nine points and set up six Notre Dame buckets. 
But last night's messengers of the recent emergence of the Irish were spreading the word in the paint. Heidi Bunek, a 6-4 sophomore, and 6-2 junior Sandy Botham poured in 19 and 15 points, respectively, and were both in double-figures on the boards with 11 and 10, respectively. 
Even against the packed­down zone of the Broncos, see BRONCOS, page 14 
just try to build on the game we just played." 
LaSalle definitely is not a team to be taken lightly. The Explorers are 11-9, including a 93-86 win over Villanova. And perhaps even more impres­sive, they lost narrowly to both North Carolina, 79-72, and DePaul, 58-54. 
"I really like the way LaSalle plays," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "They're scrappy and they hustle, and they really impressed me the way they gave North Carolina fits." 
The Explorers boast one of the hottest freshman players in the country. Forward Lionel Simmons is the leading rookie scorer in the country with an 
18.6 points-per-game average. 

Sophomore forward Heidi Bunek rejects the attempt of Western Michigan's Kendra McDonald while Irish teammate Sandy Both am 
The former Philadelphia high school player-of-the-year also grabs 9.7 rebounds a game. 
"Lionel Simmons is one of the most impressive freshmen I've seen this year," said Phelps. "He's obviously had a huge impact on their team from a scoring and rebounding standpoint, and he really gives them the kind of force you need on the boards." 
LaSalle also has experience in the form of 6-7 senior for­ward Larry Koretz and 6-4 junior guard Tim Legler. Com­bined with 6-1 junior guard Rich Tarr, the trio form a serious threat from three-point range, having made 40.3 per­cent of their shots. 
see LASALLE, page 14 
~ophomore forward Sean Connor goes for the Connor and the 12-5 Irish must guard against three-point shot over North Carolina's JeffLebo a letdown as they play host to LaSalle at the in Sunday's 60-58 Irish upset. Tonight, however, ACC. Pete Gegen previews the game above. 
Players must forget, but do we have to? 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
Beating the top-ranked team in the nation is certainly cause for celebration, but it's time to get on with business. It was another historic moment in Notre Dame history, showing that Digger Phelps, the ACC and No. 1 teams mix no better than drinking and driving. The main concern now, however, lies in the remainder of the schedule. 
Notre Dame begins a crucial stretch in the schedule, one that will determine which post-season tournament it will participate in. LaSalle provides the first obstacle tonight, and the Irish will be somewhere above human and a notch below saintly if they avoid a letdown. The Explorers will certainly be searching for an upset, but if Gary Voce can continue rebounding and scoring like he did against North Carlina ... 
Knock it off. That game is over. It's time to move on. 
Well, going against Vanderbilt will be tough on the road, seeing as they are currently 7-2 at home, and they have beaten Indiana, something the Irish couldn't do. Kansas will be a chore. Danny Manning and the Jayhawks are ranked 18th in this week's AP poll and Allen Field House does not treat visitors with much respect. And Larry Brown is such a good coach that you would run out of fingers and toes if you had to count the number of offers Brown has gotten from other basketball teams, both pro and college. But if Sean Connor could launch a few three­pointers like he did Sunday against the Tar Heels . . . 
Stop it. Victories in these upcoming games would put just as big a marker in the "W" column as the North Carolina win did, even if none could approach its appeal with the NCAA tournament selection committee. A win's a win, right? 
And in less than two weeks, those Devils clad in blue from Duke will visit the ACC, to renew the respect of their ACC (Atlantic Coast Conference). They have survived the loss of two NBA first-round draft picks, Johnny Dawkins and Mark Alarie, quite nicely. Duke is ranked 16th by the AP, and it knows all about noisy crowds. Another near­spotless game will be required from the Irish to upset the Blue Devils, but they definitely can do it. Especially if David Rivers can take control in the final minutes like Sunday when he . . . 
Oh, who am I trying to kid? I can't help it if I can't get that upset off my mind. If I tried to watch the CBS Chalk­board explain anything right now, the lines would turn into streams of toilet paper like those that bombarded the floor following the first basket of Sunday's game. IfI would see a prison riot on television, it would turn into the masses of students on the floor after the game in my mind. And 
see MEMORY, page 10 
Wednesday, February 4, 1987-page 16 
The Observer/ Greg and Bronco player Brenda Goldner ( 22) look on in last night's 65-58 Irish win. Marty Strasen gives details at left. 

I The Observer/Greg Kohs 

