
IACCENT: Putting students in their place I Warm and Wet 
_ _ A 70 percent chance of showers today, with a high 
~IEWPOINT: Solution for security problems! ~~!~~!o:rss~~~e~ro~~:~~ 
. _ and tomorrow. 
NOTRE D<l.ME 

VOL. -•~0. 10 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1987 
-......-~­
. ~"'t.IJ· " • 
~-the Independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Palestinians bury victims of Israeli raid, vow revenge 
Associated Press 
SIDON, Lebanon -About 15,000 angry Palestinians vowed revenge Sunday as they buried victims of Israel's dead­liest air raid into Lebanon this year. 
Police put the final casualty toll at 49 killed and 60 wounded in Saturday's air attack on Pal­estinian guerrilla bases on Sidon's outskirts. They said eight bodies were recovered from the rubble overnight. 
It was the highest toll of Is­rael's 22 air raids in Lebanon this year and Israel's deadliest attack on Palestinians since the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon. 
"We shall avenge our mar­tyrs!," chanted the mourners as the bodies of 40 victims were buried in a mass grave in Sidon's Palestinian refugee camp of Ein El-Hilweh. 
Police said two Lebanese vic­tims were buried separately in Sidon, provincial capital of south Lebanon 25 miles south of Beirut. 


7 dismissed from· the Irish Guard 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Seven of the 10 members of the Irish Guard have been dis­missed, Director of Bands Lut­her Snavely told the band Friday afternoon. 
Snavely repeatedly said at the meeting with the marching band, which took place before afternoon practice, that the ac­tion was taken by the adminis­tration and was not a band mat­ter, according to band members. 
Snavely referred any further comment to Vice President for Student Mfairs Father David Tyson. Repeated attempts to reach Tyson Sunday night were unsuccessful. 
"We've been given the oppor­tunity to appeal, and we'll ex­haust all the channels available to us," said Irish Guard Cap­tain Mick Conners. 
"We're out for the solution that is best for Notre Dame and for the guard," he added. 
All seven who were dis­missed Friday were returning 
members from last year's Irish 
Guard, band members said. 
The three new members who 
had made the squad this year 
were not dismissed, band 
members said. 
Guard members were also dismissed last November by James Phillips, who was acting director of bands at the time. 
Band members said they did not know if the guard members were dismissed because of in­cidents relating to last year's dismissal or if there had been any recent problems. 
Conners talked to the band after practice on Friday to ask for its support. Connors also said the seven dismissed this year were not involved in what transpired last fall, according to band members. 

According to band members, Snavely told the band that audi­tions to fill the vacancies would take place this Thursdav. 
Last November, Phillips dis­missed the entire guard, but at that time he said that not all of the Guard members were in­volved in indiscretions. 
Officials were arranging the burial of seven other Palestin­ian victims in the vast Ras­hidiyeh refugee camp at Lebanon's southern port city of Tyre, police said. The seven came from Rashidiyeh camp, which houses 30,000 people. 
Two Israeli gunboats came under fire off Tyre on Sunday. 
A Palestine Liberation Or­ganization spokesman said the gunboats shelled the Ras­hidiyeh camp, but both Lebanese police and U.N. 

Tag-off 

U.S. security prepares for pope 
Associated Press 
Thousands of security offi­cers, bullet-proof shields, dogs, metal detectors, helicopters -­even the Mounties --will guard Pope John Paul II during his nine-city U.S. tour. The guar­dians can only hope, however, that the pontiff cooperates. 
"One of the major problems is the Holy Father himself," said Deacon Norman Phillips, who is working on security ar­rangements for the San Fran­cisco Archdiocese. "If he sees somebody on crutches or in a wheelchair there's no telling what he's going to do." 
"The pope wants to go out to the people and the people want to go to the pope," said Mon­signor Roger Morin, coordina­tor for the visit in New Orleans. 
"You like to dream that things could be otherwise, that there could be a freedom of move­ment." 
John Paul's second extended visit to the United States begins Thursday i.n Miami. In 10 days he will also visit Columbia, S.C.; New Orleans; San An­tonio, Texas; Phoenix, Ariz.; Los Angeles; Monterey, Calif.; San Francisco and Detroit. 
In Miami, security forces will have the additional respon­sibility of protecting President Reagan, who will meet with the pope on Thursday. In Los An­geles, first lady Nancy Reagan will join the pope in visiting a· school. 
The Secret Service has a $5.7 million appropriation for protecting the pope, and mil­lions more will be expended by state apd local police and sheriff's offices along the way. 
The security challenge is commensurate with the popularity, and unpopularity, of the bishop of Rome. Tens of thousands of friendly people are anticipated along parade routes and at gigantic Masses in each city, and there will be smaller numbers aggrieved with church positions on wo­men, abortion, birth control, homosexuality and other is­sues. 
All landing areas will be swept for explosives. Manhole covers along all motorcade routes will be secured, and dogs will sniff for bombs at the sites of each day's events. Air traffic will be restricted over­head. 
peace force sources in south Lebanon denied this. 
A police spoke&man, who cannot be identified under reg­ulations, said Shiite Moslem militia positions fired on the gunboats with heavy machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades "when they came alarmingly close to Ras­hidiyeh." 
The U.N. sources also spoke on condition of anonymity. 
All shutters were closed during the funeral procession in the teeming Ein El-Hilweh camp, the biggest in Lebanon with a population of 60,000. 

Mourners waved Palestinian and Lebanese flags as they marched ahead of a convoy of 17 ambulances carrying the bodies to the cemetery. They were led by representatives of Yasser Arafat's PLO, Syrian­backed guerrilla groups and the Abu Nidal faction. 

In Jerusalem, an Israeli mil­itary analyst said the raid was pre-emptive, not retaliatory. 

and his partner will have to run two miles. NVAAn NO student tags his partner In a blalthalon sponsors many activities that the average student
sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics. He has just completed a half-mile swim of St. Joseph Lake, can participate ln. 


Bomb threat made at Sacred Heart 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
A bomb threat led to the evacuation of Sacred Heart Church Friday morning during a Mass for a priest who committed suicide on Aug. 29. 
A call came through the University switchboard at 
10:14 a.m. Friday indicating a bomb would go off in the church at 10:32 a.m., accor­ding to Notre Dame Director of Security Rex Rakow. 
A . search of the church after it was evacuated found no bomb, said Rakow. 
About 250 people were in the church at the time uf the threat. They were celebrat­ing a memorial Mass for Fa­ther Niles Rasmussen, who was found dead from a gun­shot wound last week. 
Father Daniel Jenky, rec­tor of Sacred Heart Church, interrupted the homily to tell the congregation that there had been a bomb threat and that everyone should leave the church immediately, a singer in the choir said. 
The congregation, includ­ing University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy, who was celebrating the Mass, then left the church, said the singer.
Rakow said it is a felony to call in false bomb threats. No arrest has been made in connection with the threat. 


In Brief 
Rev. Richard McBrien, chairman of the Theology Department, will be an on-air commentator f?r CB~-TV during the papal visit later this month. McBnen wtll be with Dan Rather doing live coverage of Pope John Paul II's September 10 arrival in Miami a~d then work out of New York City. A priest of the Archd10cese of Hartford, Connecticut McBrien writes a syndicated column for ~he diocesan Catholic press, is the author of "Caesar's Com: Religion and Politics in America," pu~lishe~ last March, and has been a commentator on news mvolvmg the Cath­olic Church for CBS News before. -The Observer 
An ND maintenance worker was killed in an auto accident near Elkhart Friday afternoon. Donna Bostwick, 33, of Goshen, died in Elkhart General Hospital of massive head injuries suffered in a two-car accident, according to Elkhart police and the Elkhart County coroner's report. The accident occured when Bostwick's car struck another car head-on. The driver of the other automobile was treated for minor cuts. -The Observer 
Hogs injectedwithgrowthhormonesbecomeleaner and more muscular, and the meat's taste ts not affe~ted by the chemical. The injections are the hottest new tdea in swine production, but it will be at least two years before farmers can buy them and other chemical pr~ducts. ~x­periments at Purdue showed that hogs, mJected wtth growth hormones, or somatotropin, grow larger muscles and gain less fat. Evidence has not been found that the hormone is found in the meat or will change the taste. 
-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Thomas More Society will hold its first general meeting for members and prospective members tonight at 7 p.m. in the coffee room of the Center for Social Con­cerns. -The Observer 
Senior Class trip members must pay final deposits and choose roommates from 3 to 6 p.m. today and from 6 to 8 p.m. tomorrow. Payments can be brought to the Senior Class office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. -The 
Observer 
The student senators have established their office hours. They will be in the student government office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from 7:30 to 8:30p.m. Sunday through Thursday. Stop by or call239-7668.-The Observer 
"Self-critical thinking," a lecturetliscussion sponsored by the University Counseling Center, will be held tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. This is the first of the Counseling Center's series of workshops on personal management and self­control. -The Observer 
Michigan Tickets: Winners of the Michigan-N.D. ticket lottery are now posted outside of the Student Union Board office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. -The Observer 
We want to know! _ 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 
-Ihe-O.bseP-'~0l-­
------.. _.L-=Y=-._, --­
Design Editor ......... Jane Anne Riedford Viewpoint Layout ............ Heidi Traxler Design A ..utant . . . .. .. Lisa Tugman Accent Copy Editor .. .... Kathy Scarbeck Layout Staff. . ..... Tracy Burke Accent Layout . ........... Katy Kronenburg Typeaetters ................ Mark McLaughlin Bwines• Editor... .............. Steve Claeys ........................................... Daniel Cahill Bmine•• Layout.. ............. Heidi Traxler News Editor..... . Chris Julka Typuts ............................. Karen Vossen Copy Editor ...................... Tim O'Keefe ....................................... Jennifer Conlon Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Doti Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Brian Conway ............................................... David Lee Photographer ............ Zoltan Ury 
ne Olleentt" (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday tbrouab Friday except durin& exam and vacation periods. ne Olleener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for So40 per year (Sll per semester) by writina ne O!Mener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,lndiana46SS6. 
ne Olleener is • member of ne Alloda1M Prea. All reproduction riabts are reserved. 


Olliemania is a protest
~ 

not a folk-hero cult 
"America Loves Ollie." 
In late July this sentence suddenly sprouted ChriS on T -shirts throughout my hometown under a portrait of the man directly responsible for the J UI ka sale of missiles to Iran and the diversion of profits therefrom to the Contras. 
Although an artist from my hometown Assistant News Editor created this shirt, just several days ago I ob------------------­

served that Col. North also seems to have taken the Golden Dome --at least part of it. I entered an elevator, and then I saw someone's shirt say "Ollie for Prez." 
T-shirts buttons, demonstrations--all in fa­vor of a p~rson who was one of the great vill~ins in the public eye only several months earher. To top it off, millions of viewers saw the spec­tacle of a joint congressional committee un­dergo a virtual conversion on national televi­sion: a hangman's jury of forbidding Torquemada's on the first day became a group of well-meaning, sympathetic chums by the end of the week who evidently deeply admired North's patriotism .. Soon they were coac~ing him along to spill all he knew about the ternble trauma of deceiving the government as if they were participating in an alcoholics anonymous session. 
Why Olliemania? Is it all just a farce? An­other fad? I am led to believe it is not. 
Syndicated columnists were at loss to explain it: "Hey, wait a minute, didn't we all already decide this North was a bad guy? How could Was it the macho heroism of North's deed? the public be so easily duped? Why can't the Let's be serious. The whole Iran-Contra affair common folk be as intelligent as us lofty college-looks more like a Gomer Pyle rerun than the educated columnists and see through this loose act of one of the few and the proud, and polls cannon?" show that this is the opinion of the majority. 
Even Newsweek, which must remain rela-So why all the support for North? The con­tively tame to keep its large readership, felt elusion seems to me inescapable: rather than obliged to explain what went wrong. It made expressing devotion to a new folk hero, the but-the classic style-over-substance argument that tons, posters, and T-shirts actually reveal a the hearings were yet another example of profound, grass-roots disgust of the people for "people watching television, as opposed to lis-the establishment in general. tening to it," said a Newsweek story. Sure, we still have one of the highest stand-
But what really did go 'wrong'? Is the general ards of living in the world. Nevertheless, almost public really so obtuse that it didn't listen to all of the national trends are pointing down. what was said in the hearings? Is the average The $2 trillion national debt, the loss of many Joe really incapable of telling the difference of our key industries to East Asia, the comedy between a news broadcast and "Mr. Smith Goes of our foreign policy, the upper class's use use to Washington"? of Reagan's tax cut to raid corporations rather 
I argue this wasn't the case. than to invest, a pork-barreling Congress, an 
A look at a poll taken by Time shows only 29 air-headed Supreme Court--Joe Average CUi­percent thought North a hero. Furthermore, al-zen could go on and on. . though 60 percent said they were sympathetic Add to this the reverse psychology whtch to North only 51 percent believed he was totally resulted from the principal media's obvious dis-truthful.' How does one reconcile these like of North --from almost exclusive coverage opinions? of North's detractors in the AP, to the carica-
Simple: America really doesn't love Ollie that tures, to John Chancellor describing North as much. ''smarting off'' to his interrogators--and you've Was it North's all-American face that every explained the entire phenomenon of North ap­
mother loves that made Americans change parently being canonized by the public as a folk their minds? I don't think so. Four out of five hero. dentists certainly wouldn't be that impressed Am I suggesting the North hearings were an by his dental work, he has wrinkles in his American equivalent of the Dreyfus case? No. forehead and lines on his face, and his nose I am only saying that rather than just a gag or looks like it could have been broken in a boxing inexplicable fad, Olliemania may actually be a match. very thinly veiled grass roots protest. 
r,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,.~,,,.~..,.~,.,.,..~,.,,,,,,,,,.,.1 

I SENIORS! I 
~ ~ 
~ You say you have so many things to get done before ~ ~ that fust interview, yet so little time? ~ 
~ The answer is simple. ~ 
~ The answer is ADWORKS! ~ 
~ Uncomplicate your busy lives and let ADWORKS prepare ~ 2 your resume and job-search related needs with our t~p-~ 2 quality professional resume service. Just ?ring-us your ln-22 formation, select one of our six custom resume layouts to 2 ~ best highlight your qualifications, and in only 24 hours you ~ 2 can have as many copies as you desire! ~ ~ Call us at 9-ADWORKS (239-6757) to make an appoint-2 ~ ment. Or drop by our offices on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. ~ 
~ ~ 
~ We're Fast! We're Convenient! We're Inexpensive! ~ 
~ And We're Professional! ~ 

l,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,j 

U.S.S.R. prints AIDS brochures 
Associated Press The new Health Ministry bro­But a health warning as chure, entitled "What You detailed and mass-produced as 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Health Need To Know About AIDS," the AIDS brochure was Ministry has produced 5 mil­takes a direct and non-political believed to be unprecedented. lion brochures warning about approach to explaining the AIDS is a fatal disease in the spread of the deadly AIDS virus --how it can be con­which a virus attacks the virus and has begun distribut­tracted and how to avoid expo­body's immune system, ·ing them in the capital. sure. leaving victims susceptible to 
The Russian-language a wide variety of infections and 
The information campaign, pamphlet so far has been cancers. It is most often trans­begun over the weekend, shows delivered only to two com­mitted through sexual contact. the increasing seriousness with pounds for foreigners. But the Sharing of contaminated which the government is tack­number of brochures printed hypodermic needles or ling AIDS, or acquired immune suggests the ministry intends syringes by intravenous drugdeficiency syndrome. to eventually deliver them to abusers is another major
A year ago the state-run So­every household in Moscow, a means of transmission. 
viet news media described city of 9 million. No cure for AIDS is known. AIDS as a scourge resulting According to the circulation The brochure says those from the decadent behavior of figure printed on the back of facing the highest risk of con­
Westerners. The Soviet press the pamphlet, 5 million were tracting AIDS are male also said the virus was the produced. homosexuals, and warns product of secret germ warfare Soviet citizens living near the Soviets that "the more sexual research in the United States. foreigners' compounds said partners you have, the higher ~ 
they did not receive a brochure your risk of contraction." !II' 
in weekend mail deliveries. Homosexual contact is a • Threats to public health, crime in the Soviet Union, 
WANTED 
USC vs. NO 

such as the annual influenza punishable by up to five years
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
epidemics that sweep Moscow, in a corrective labor camp. 


are usually addressed in news­The Soviet government AP Photo
21.3-422-2812 
Papal chair
paper articles and on bulletin issued a decree Aug. 25 that
EARLY AM OR f:Vf:NJNOS 
Two workers put the finishing touches on the chair that Pope John 
boards of clinics and hospitals. authorizes forced testing of 

Paul II will sit on Sept. 13 during an outdoor mass In San Antonio.
anyone in the Soviet Union 

Craftsmen have worked since July 31 on the chair, lectern and
when "there are grounds for





r----------------, 
20-foot altar.
assuming that they are in­fected with the AIDS virus." The decree set penalties for 
those who knowingly expose others to the virus. I I "Deliberate exposure of an­other person to the danger of 
! CLUB 23 ! Iran accuses U.S.; 
1 Formerly Giannetto's I Mine sweepers sent 
being infected with AIDS shallI I be punished with up to five Associated Press Kuwait on Saturday ordered 
years in prison," the decree the five Iranians to leave the
I Friday Special-$! OFF Pizza I 
said. MANAMA, Bahrain -Iran country within a week and com­I I The prison term can be as said Sunday the United States plained that Iran fired a missile much as eight years if a known pressured Kuwait into ordering at the Kuwaiti coast on Friday.1Featuring our delicious Pizza, 1AIDS carrier infects another five Iranian diplomats ex­Iran considers Kuwait an ally person. pelled. Six U.S. mine sweepers of Iraq. Kuwait says it is 
1 Sandwiches, Dinners, The Health Ministry bro­meanwhile steamed toward the neutral.
1 chure cited an analysis of Persian Gulf to help protect Iran's prime minister, Hus­1 Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava.• thousands of AIDS cases regis­reflagged Kuwaiti tankers. sein Musavi, said Kuwait was tered internationally since too weak to expel the five onI Beer and Wine served. I 1981. That report said 77 per­Vernon Walters, U.S. envoy its own and was only obeying cent of AIDS carriers were men to the United Nations, said Iran "that which is dictated upon it who were homosexual, --"if anybody there is thinking by other governments," accor­
I I

234-3541 

bisexual or sexually promis­logically at all"--would accept ding to Iran's official Islamic 
cuous. a cease-fire when U.N. Republic News Agency, moni­I 5pm-11 pm 1' I An additional 15 percent Secretary-General Javier tored in Cyprus. I Monday-Saturday N. I were intravenous drug users, Perez de Cuellar travels to the "Persian Gulf governments
I Dine In or Carry Out J i' I the brochure said, and 1 per­region this week. are permanent neighbors 
cent contracted the virus In another development, which should care more about ~ I during blood transfusions . Iran announced it was releas­good relations with each other 
I ..,..... 0 
Children born to AIDS-infected ing 100 Iraqi prisoners of war than relations with the United
I 744 N. Notre Dame cJ>,.~ ctus 23 I mothers accounted for 1 per­and proposed that both sides States," Musavi was quoted as 
Large Groups & Clubs Welcome I cent and the remainder was release certain prisoners held saying. listed in the brochure as for more than five years in the U.S. warships began July 21 "source of infection unclear." 7 war. to escort 11 Kuwaiti tankers 


I----------------­

through the gulf. The U.S. mine sweepers Es­teem, Conquest and Enhance
GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
left Hawaii Saturday morning, and the mine sweepers Inflict, Fearless and Illusive left Vir­
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAt 
ginia on Sunday, U.S. military officials said in Washington. 
The hardest thin~ ahout hreak~ of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the 
Until now, mine sweeping
ing into professional also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: 
operations in the gulf have been music is-well. hreak~ not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
carried out by helicopters based aboard the U.S. assault
ing into professional abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216~5005. 
carrier Guadalcanal.
music. So if you're Most important, you can Oreal! toll free 1~800~USA~ARMY. 
The six mine sweepers are 
kx)king for an ()rrxlr~ expect a first~rate pro~ 
170-foot MSO-class ships with wooden hulls. All ships of that
tunity to turn your fessional environment 
class in the Navy's inventory
musical talent into from your instructors, 
were built in the 1950s and 
a full~time perform~ facilities and fellow 
1960s. in~ career, take a musicians. The Army 
During the first convoy of 
U.S. warships and reflagged
~ood l<x)k at the has educational 
Kuwaiti tankers through the
Army. programs that 
gulf July 24, the tanker It's not can help you 
Bridgeton was damaged when all parades pay for off~ 
it hit a mine.

and John Philip duty instruc~ 
Kuwait on Saturday told
Sousa. Army tion, and if 
Perez de Cuellar that Iran was bands rock, you qual~ 
guilty of hostile acts that merited U.N. action.
waltz and boogie ifv, even 
It pointed to the missile at­
as well as march, help you 
tack Friday and an earlier 
and they perform repay 
Iranian attack on a Kuwaiti before concen au~ your 
freighter in the gulf. It said it was withholding other griev­
diences as well fcderally~insured 
ances to avoid complicating the 
ARMY BAND. 
as spectators. student loans. 
U.N. leader's efforts to bring
With an If 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
about a cease-fire. 

makeshift ventilation system. Small was kid­napped and held for $1 million ransom. See story below. 
Unclear tapes botch kidnapping 
Associated Press 
KANKAKEE, Ill. -The fam­ily of a kidnapped man who died after he was buried alive was "ready and willing" to pay a $1 million ransom, but couldn't make the delivery be­cause the abductors' tape­recorded instructions were un­clear, police said Sunday. 
The kidnappers "botched it themselves," said Police Chief Timothy 0. Nugent. "Maybe they didn't have enough tapes." 
The body of Stephen B. Small, 39, member of a prominent media family, was found late Friday in a wooden box buried in sand southeast of Kankakee, about 60 miles south of Chicago. 
Police said Small was kid­napped Wednesday when his abductors lured him to a build­ing he was renovating. He was buried alive and provided with air through a plastic pipe, water in a jug and light powered by two car batteries. 
After conducting a prelimi­nary autopsy, Kankakee County Coroner James Orrison said Sunday he believes Small lived no more than a few hours after he was put in the box, measuring 3 feet wide, 3 feet high and 6 feet long. 
Orrison said he thinks Small suffocated, but autopsy results were inconclusive and labora­tory results were expected within three weeks. 
Three people have been ar­rested in the case and police were searching Sunday for at least two more suspects. 
The arrested suspects were identified as Daniel Edwards, 30, and Nancy Rish, 26, both of nearby Bourbonnais, and Kent Allain, 33, of Kankakee. 



Third Edition !\lief~ Frell"!d 
A'K.)BABUTY AN) SWISTIC:S FOR ENGINEERS 
Needy students are 'largely bypassed' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -School reform has largely bypassed the three students in 10 who are consid­ered disadvantaged, according to a panel of American business leaders who urge policymakers to bolster programs aimed at the very youngest children. 
Reform efforts have yielded "little or no improvement in the dropout rate in the past few years," concluded a study sponsored by the Committee for Economic Development, a nonprofit organization whose trustees are mostly business executives and university presidents. 
One million pupils will con­tinue to drop out each year and another 700,000 will graduate lacking job skills unless fully­funded programs are estab­lished to help disadvantaged youths meet strict standards imposed by school reform, the report said. 
The report, "Children In Need: Investment Strategies for the Educationally Disad­vantaged," was done by a 15­member panel chaired by retired Procter & Gamble Chairman Owen B. Butler, who was to discuss it at a Tuesday news conference in Washing­ton. 
"Effective solutions for the educationally disadvantaged must reach beyond the bounds of traditional schooling," But­ler said in an interview. 
The report marked the second recent attempt by busi­ness leaders to summon fellow corporate executives into the fray of school reform. In 1985, a CED report, "Investing In Our Children," said schools were failing to stress the "in­visible curriculum" of team­work, honesty, and reliability essential to career success. 

The new report called for more dollars for "proven pro­grams" such as Head Start and remedial reading and math programs, calling such spend­ing "a superior investment." 
It said quality preschool pro­grams for the disadvantaged such as Head Start yield a $4.75 return for every $1 spent, mainly through eventual savings in special education, welfare and crime control costs. Yet only 20 percent of those eligible are currently en­rolled in Head Start. 
Of the $264 billion spent nationwide on education last year, only about $1 billion was spent on educating children aged 5 and under, the report noted. 
It argued that full funding for those and other programs with proven track records makes sense because the annual crop of school dropouts costs the na­tion an eventual $240 billion in 
lost  earnings  and  foregone  
taxes.  
If present  trends  continue,  

the report warned, "U.S. indus­try could be short 23 million Americans willing and able to work in a more complex, high tech environment." 
Whether you're into business, science or engineering, TI has all the right calculators with all the right functions for you. 
Every year, thousands of hapless students watch their course load become an overload. And every year, the smart ones among them pick up a TI calculator anll rake a load off. 
TI offers everything from advanced scientifics that clock your performances, to program­mables that speak your language, to a solar-powered financial calcu-. lator that highlights your answers even in lowlight conditions. 
And the large, color-coded keys and simple keyboard layouts mean you'll spend less time figuring out the calculator and more time figuring out your problems. 
Cll987 Tl. '"Trademarlc ofTexa.' Instruments lncolJ">r.l!<d 

Weather helps firefighters 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager Night Typesetter 
For further information contact Shawn Sexton at The Observer (239-5303) 
BCAC, SUB, Fisher Hall, t!i 
Student Government present: 
Pl_ECI_~/ 
-------• • • • 0 F A • • • • -----­
/DREA--M~ 
+Saturday/ September 12 
• 
9:00pm • Stepan Center 

•
Tickets: $3.00 Advance-available in Dining Halls & The Cellar or call BCAC at 239-6841 


$4.00 at the door $5.00 non-students + AFfER-SET DANCE 11 :00pm-2:00am 
Associated Press 
Crews battling forest fires that have charred an estimated 980 square miles in the West got help Sunday from calm, cooler weather. 
Some fires in remote areas were being allowed to burn, partly because of a shortage of trained firefighters. No damage estimate was avail­able yet for California, but Oregon officials estimated statewide damage at $318 mil­lion, mostly in timber loss. 
In addition to prime timber, officials said the blazes also were destroying illegal mari­juana crops hidden in the forests. 
"We've basically used up all the firefighting resources in the nation," Jim Torrence, regional forester for the U.S. Forest Service, said at a news 
conference Sunday in Oregon. day of favorable weather in 
,..............................................• 
: Alpha-Omega PlayeiS : 
.• ----·-~-..~,In . :• 
• ..-co."""·· .-...: ..\-. •
. ~~ ---~ ·~
• ~0 .~ . : 
: ~-f.Ecr,1~,; ! 
--,__ . \_f~ tl¥-/~, : 
·-... t.-. '" .... •
1,532BnNdw.ly~ .-..-.. .........._ : 
·~ 
. 

Monday, September 14 : 7:OOpm "'~ : 
Notre Dame Room-2nd ~~o'< : Floor Lafortune ~~o ~<:>~ : FREE admission '\)~ :
•.............................................•~ 
The total burned area in Cal­ifornia grew to more than 475,000 acres since Aug. 28, and 107,000 acres have gone up in smoke in Oregon. About 35,000 acres have burned in Idaho, and smaller fires were re­ported last week in Washing­ton, Arizona, Montana, South Dakota and Wyoming, bringing the total acreage to about 629,000. 
The burned area is only 72 square miles smaller than the state of Rhode Island. 
Fires in California and Oregon were being fought by 22,000 firefighters, up 2,000 from Saturday, according to the Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho, which coordi­nates state and federal crews. It said they were fighting 1,844 fires, down from Saturday's 1,877. 
Sundav was the third straight 
California, and crews were 
making headway against the 
state's worst blazes, including 
the 119,000-acre Paper Com­
plex fire in the Stanislaus Na­
tional Forest just west of 
Yosemite National Park, a 
spokeswoman said. Officials 
said it no longer threatened the 
Merced Grove of rare sequoia 
redwoods in the park. 
"We're around the corner," 
said LoVae Pray Martines, an 
information officer for the Cal­
ifornia Department of 
Forestry. "We're beginning to 
get containment on our top five 
or six priority fires." 
She said the Paper Complex 
fire had destroyed enough tim­
ber to build 10,000 three­
bedroom houses. 
One firefighter was killed Saturday and nine others were injured, none seriously, when a four-foot-diameter tree fell on their truck in Six Rivers Na­tional Forest about 200 miles north of San Francisco. The tree was in a fire area but was not burned or dead, Martines said. He was the second firefighter to die since Aug. 28. 
Fire officials said an intense effort to prevent the huge Paper Complex blaze, about 150 miles southeast of San Francisco, from spreading into towns east of Sonora was paying off, with the fire 20 per­cent contained Sunday. 
Thirteen isolated homes and 17 barns and sheds had been destroyed in the fire in Tuolumne County, said Forest Service spokesman Dick Wisehart . 
The Tl-60 Advanced 
Scientific features such huilc-in functions as hexa­decimal/( 1ctal cc mt•ersicms, integration using Simpson:~ rule. statistics (including linear regression), trend line analysis and metric to English conversions. There are also 84 programming ste{Js for repetitive calculations. 
The TI-65 Advanced Scientific offers all of the built-in functions ofthe Tl-60, plus a sto{xmcchl timer {r1r lah­

work, eight physical 
constants{r1r use in 
chermod'\'namics and 
physics as tt•ellas 
Decision Program­
ming (if ..chen) capabilities. There are also 100 pro­gramming steps {r1r repeciciw calculations. 


The Tl-74 BASICALC'" 
Programmable Advanced 
Scientific is TI's BASIC language 
programmable calculator. 
In addition co offering a full range ofscientific, mathematical and sta­tistical functions, the TI-74 offers a 113 BASIC ke'\'word sec with a special function key chat gives direct 2-ke'\'stroke access co 41 BASIC com~nds. The TI-74 also has subroutine capability for advanced programming flexibility. 
use it in any 

light. Preprogrammed formulas help you The Tl-95 PROCALC'" is speed through business problems such as keystroke programmable and also interest, loans, real estate, bonds, pricing offers a full range ofscientific, and profit. mathematical and statistical functions. 
Featured in the TI-95 is Tl's exclu­
sive Power Windowsr" Operating So pick up a Tl calculator today. System, which provides easy access It'll save you a lot of griefand it co the functions and flexible file 
might just save your skin. 

management system. Both the TI-95 and the Tl-74 offer optional equip­ment such as Solid State Software"' modules, an BK constant memory module, a portable printer and ­
TEXAS., 
cassecce interface. 

INSTRUMENTS 


page 6 The Observer Monday, September 7, 1987 
Reagan praises Landon as exemplary American
t 
( Associated Press in my life, and it's a great day in the life of all of us, just to TOPEKA, Kan. -President have had the privilege we have Reagan on Sunday saluted Re­had today, to meet the presi­publican Party elder states­dent of the United States and 
man Alf Landon as personify­Mrs. Reagan."ing the "quiet strength and Reagan quipped that when he simple decency" of last saw Landon, the former 
Americans. 

Kansas Republican kidded him 
Reagan and his wife, Nancy, about whether Reagan would stopping in Topeka en route make it to 100. back to Washington, took part "He looked me up and down in an early birthday party for ... and said, 'I think you can
~,:J ~.. Landon, who turns 100 on Wed­make it,' " Reagan quoted Lan­
, ; < nesday. 
don as telling him. 
"I can't resist saying, 'You The Reagans visited
I 

don't know what a joy it is for privately with Landon and his a fellow like me to go to a family before the Republicanbirthday party for someone president and the would-be Re­
who in all honesty can call me publican president of 51 years
• kid,' " said Reagan, 76. earlier appeared together
\ ' Landon, who suffered the before reporters.most lopsided electoral college Reagan later watched ad­loss in the history of American miringly as Landon's family
Students keep reaching for the stars at the You Laugh" contest first, and then the dance 
presidential elections, told the and friends sang "Happy
opening Friday night of Theodore's, Notre Dame's floors were jammed with shuttling students. 

first couple, "It's a great day Birthday."
night club. Theodore's featured a "We Can Make 
Siamese twins separated 
Associated Press Rogers said of the parents, arid­gan damage," said Dr. Ben ing that the twins were ex­Carson. 
0

BALTIMORE -Physicians pected to remain at the hospital An estimated 60 units of blood who participated in a 22-hour for several weeks. were used in the operation,operation to separate ?-month­


which ended with doctors old West German Siamese The biggest risk after such covering the brains of both 
RETREAT

twins said Sunday that they an operation is the formation twins. 
..Sexuality, Intimacy & Spirituality"
would consider the surgery a of a blood clot in the newly con­It was only the second at­
success when the infants leave directed by Patricia livingston
structed blood vessels, as well tempted separation of Siamese the hospital. as intracranial bleeding and twins in Hopkins' 98-year his­"We will prefer to say that heart complications, tory. Five years ago, doctors 
TOPICS:

the operation was a success if physicians said. The critical successfully separated twin 
Intimacy 1-kr.nosexuahty S..xu'llity· Pnmary
the twins can return home period is the first three to four girls born to a Delaware Relationships Hetuosexu;Jity Genitalhealthy," said surgery coord­days after the surgery, they couple. Masturbation l.o<wlineS> Affective inator Dr. Mark Rogers, direc­said. 
• How do I relate to God ir. the context :>f the gin or my sexu~lity>
tor of pediatric intensive care 
"At the end of the 22-hour op­Siamese twins occur in about 
• How does intlrrucy in my ;;le reveal God to me>

at John Hopkins Hospital. 
eration, the twins--Patrick and 1 per 2 million to 2.5 million
Doctors declined to predict Benjamin Binder --who are • How do th< ,.,..rning> of my ~fe tell me about God's love for me>
births, and the survival rate of
the chances of survival for now two separate boys, were in twins who have been separated • How a.n Icom< to undo!rstand my sexu•IH;· ~lOre broadly and &eepiy> 
Patrick and Benjamin Binder, critical but stable condition," are normally no greater than • How does understanding my sexuality free nw to choose wi;•t is most li!e giVIng at this time In my hfe?
who were joined at the back of Ms. Hillman said earlier. 50 percent, Carson said.the head before the operation 
Doctors, using dolls and WHEN: September 25 (6:30) · September 27 (noon) 
I that began at 7 a.m. Saturday diagrams, demonstrated the Information about the Binder 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office
and ended at 5:10a.m. Sunday. complex techniques used in the twins and their family has been 
I 
(Badin Hall) 239-5242
"We take tremendous delicate operation. difficult to obtain because a amount of pride in giving the While Patrick and Benjamin West German magazine, 
SIGN-UP DEADLINE: September 18, 1987 
Binder twins the best chance had separate brains, they Bunte, paid the parents of the 
$12.00

they could have," Rogers said shared a common vein in the twins an undisclosed amount of
f OFO a 0fv1'US VN51RY 
a media briefing that included back of the head that doctors money for exclusive rights to) some of 70 specialists involved 
had to separate.
in the operation. their story. •--...--...---·
The biggest concern was pre­
I 
The twins' parents, Josef and venting serious blood loss and Theresia Binder of Ulm, West brain damage during the time Germany, were not at the news doctors stopped the twins' conference and were unavail­hearts while they separated 
STUDENT BOARD UNION 
able for interviews or them, constructed new sinuses
f 
photographs, said Lisa Hil­and re-established the blood 
lman, spokeswoman for the flow, Rogers said. f hospital's Children's Center, 
"We knew we were under
( 
where the operation was per­pressure to accomplish all this 
'{ 
OPEN HOUSE
formed. 
in less than an hour since any
'( 
"Like any other parents,

'( longer would increase the risk '{ they were greatly relieved," of brain damage and other or-
The Observe~oltan Ury
Let's dance 
-for all those who signed up at Activities Night and anyone else who is interested 
Reception: 8:00-9:00pm Individual Committee Meetings: 9:00-1O:OOpm 
Refreshments will be served!!! In the SUB office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
I 
( 
~ 
t 
) 
f 
'I 
'I 
·t 
'/
'I 
'( 
'{
'I 
1 
'{
1 
;f 
, 
~I v 
~ 
'(
II 
!I 
il 
r( 
~ 
ri 
~I 
,. 
Do you feel like you have 2 left feet? Are you worried about embarassment at the next SYR? 
If you answered "yes" to either of the above, then... 
COME SWING WITH US!! 

The NDSMC Ballroom Dance Club 
provides the perfect opportunity to meet people and to learn the most fun dance steps around. 
No partner is needed! So don't be a wallflowercome to where the action is... WHERE: Stepan Center WHEN: Monday, September 7 7:00pm WHO: NOOMC Students, Faculty, and Staff *Free Refreshments* 
~ \1~~ ~... d~ C]J
.P~ l\\\e,"t "{'~"ol' <t'b-'\\b '~-C]Jll 
Business
Monday, September 7, 1987 page 7 
Not all banks created equal: Survey reveals which are best 
By BRIAN MURRAY Business Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students now have two alternatives to banking at the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
St. Joseph Bank just opened a branch in the basement of La Fortune, and First Source Bank has had a branch in Hagar at Saint Mary's. Let's evaluate the services each bank offers. 
Checking Accounts: Both St. Joseph Bank and First Source offer free checking with no mm1mum balance require­ments. St. Josephs Bank also of­fers free one-line checks. The Credit Union requires a mini­mum balance of $5, and charges a fee when your ac­count falls below $500. Both the Credit Union and First Source 

FREE LECTURE 
at the Century Center 
7 PM Sept. 8 
Maharishi Ayurveda Holistic Health 
Sponsored by the 
TM Program 

charge you for your checks. 
Savings accounts: First Source and Saint Josephs banks both offer five percent interest on savings accounts. First Source has a $1 per month charge for balances below $100. Saint Joe has no minimum charges and pays 5.25 percent on balances above $500. The Notre Dame Credit Union pays 
5.25 percent on savings with a minimum balance of $100. 
For those under 21 years of age, First Source offers check­ing and savings without any minimum charges, and gives six percent interest on savings. First Source calls this offer a Financial Independence ac­count, and it is supposed to help students in their transition to adulthood. The only catch is a $25 start-up fee. This fee, however, can be reduced to $20 if you are refered to First Source by one of their custom­ers. Another $5 can be saved through a First Source coupon. 
Which bank allows the con­sumer to come out ahead? Sup­pose a student has $1,000 at the begining of the year, withdraws money evenly over the course of the year, and keeps as much as possible in the savings account. 
Mter deducting various fees and penalties, St. Joseph's comes out ahead with $19.93 made through interest. Next is First Source which will earn for him $18.16. Finally, the Notre Dame Credit Union gives him $1.83. 
If you want to get the most for your hard earned money, the choice is obvious. 
Dow falls 38.11 points; Fed ups discount rate 
By STEVE CLAEYS Business Editor 
Action by the Federal Reserve and investor pes­simism caused the Dow Jones Industial Index to fall 38.11 point on Friday. 
Friday's decline resulted in a drop of 77.97 points for the week. This was the largest weekly decline this year for the Dow. 
One contributor to Wall Street's worries was the an­nouncement by the Federal Reserve that the discount rate was raised from 5.5 percent to 6 percent. This increase was ef­fective immediately. 
The discount rate is the in­terest rate paid by banks when they borrow money from the Federal Reserve. 

GIANT POSTER SALE!!! 
IMPORTED ROCK & POP, ALSO FILM, FINE-ART, & PERSONALITY POSTERS 
MON-FRI, 7th-11th Sept. 
9:00 am-6:00 pm 
WEST POINT CONFERENCE ROOM LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER FROM ONLY $3.00 
the prime rate of the major banks climbed from 8.25 per­cent to 8.75 percent. 
Some observers suggested that raising the discount rate was a premature action by rookie Federal Reserve Chair­man Alan Greenspan. Greenspan possibly raised the rate to establish his control of the Federal Reserve. 
There has been doubt over whether he will be able to fill the shoes of former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volker. 
Another contributing factor to the Dow's fall is investor worry about the trade figures scheduled to be released this Friday. Another increase in the trade deficit will weaken faith in the Reagan administration's trade policy and the economy. 
Wholihan and 
~

~ 
Murray ­• x:;;;
'-Business Briefs

~. " 
The market is finally caving in to women's demands. Wal­ter Hibbs, inventor, has designed a toilet seat closer. The automatic Seat-Down is made of a hydraulic cylinder and piston rod that is inserted between the seat bottom and floor. The Seat-Down user can set the device to close after staying up for up to three and a half minutes. 
Say goodbye to ironing. Alan Rypinski has invented a spray product that actually takes wrinkles out of a shirt. The foun­der of Very Incredible Products, Inc., claims that all one must do is spray "Wrinkle Free" on a shirt and then smooth out the wrinkles with your hand. The product also removes odors and static cling. A three ounce can costs about $5 and will cover about twenty shirts. 
A voiding state sales tax when purchasing by catalog or television is now an endangered practice. Representative Byron Dorgan (D-ND) is sponsoring a bill that would require catalog houses and shopping networks to·collect sales tax on out-of-state purchases. The forty five states that have a sales tax will benefit from approximately $1.5 billion in generated tax revenue. Prices for products from catalogs or shopping networks will increase an average of 5 percent. 
The owner of a local video franchise, Bob Craig, won a trip to Japan and visited the production facilities of Matsus­hita. There he witnessed the production of blank video tapes. A large, thick roll of magnetic tape was cut and fed into various tape cases. These cases were then labled Quazar, Panasonic, Magnavox, TDK, and Kodak. Blank tapes run from $3.99 for Kodak tapes at Target to $7 for Quazar tapes at a video store. The price difference is simply the cost of perceived quality. 

AIM HIGH 
GET ON THE TRACK TOA SCHOLARSHIP 
An AJ.r Force ROTC scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Rnd out if you qualify for tuition and other expenses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: 
A•r Force ROTC Ph 239·6634 
Viewpoint
~eB Monday, September 7, 1987 
Interactions with security need trust 
There are certai~ things I believe I thought to myself this must have been But in this case I sensed ungrounded justification for it. most people have difficulty accepting. a bad fluke, that it couldn't happen hostility, and this must be changed. In criminal justice the individual is Some of thses are injustice, violence, again. But I have had a chance to talk Students are responsible individuals, considered innocent until proven guilty. 
;~
,. disrespect and lack of consideration for to other undergraduates and to hear un­and they should be treated as such. It I think that the force of this principle others. I find it distressing when I find believable stories of abuse of authority should be a basic premise in the rela­derives from the fact that in our com­
.,
,, these around me, and particularly and simply unnecessary ill-treatment tions between security and students merce with other human beings trust when it happens at home. In this case, of students. I resisted to believe against that they are friends, not foes; that is the only natural way to go. If this home is Notre Dame. all this evidence ; after all, security of­there is a community of which we all principle is sound, shouldn't it ground ficers are there to protect our interests, form part, and that its harmonious exis­also the relations between students and Victor J. Krebs they are reasonable individuals per­tence depends on mutual respect and security officers? I ask this rhetorical­forming a difficult task, and they understanding. There are, of course, ly, of course. The answer is very clear. guest column deserve all our cooperation and sup­cases where students make mistakes, I hope my words help in so.me measure port. I still want to believe that, and and they act like less than they are sup­to bring things back to where they In the past few weeks, I have become there would be nothing that could make posed to and should be expected to act. should be, for the well-being of our aware of a very unsettling situation on me happier than to see that it is true. But those should be seen as the excep­community. campus, and I hope that what I have We are a community here at Notre tions and never as the rule. Perhaps we to say may help to change it. I am re­Dame, where values of respect, consid­are in part to blame for this attitude in Victor J. Krebs is a graduate student ferring specifically to the relations be­eration, justice and fairness, and most some security guards; but that is no in philosophy. tween Security and the student body. of all love for each other, are our ideals. During this past summer a friend of But, recently, I experienced another mine living on campus asked me to help incident reminiscent of that summer him move from his room. This was my nightmare. Against this evidence I can­first exposure to what is (as he told me) not believe what I want to believe. The a common problem accepted by most evidence has turned against me, and I university that we at Notre Dame all
Campus education
students as a given and unchangeable am forced to admit what I had heard need to be educated about it? fact on campus. As anyone who lives from many others: there is a problem Ryan White, the boy from Kokomo,
about AIDS lacking
on campus knows, access by car to the in the attitude of SOME security guards Indiana, who contracted AIDS through 
university is very restricted. And of (and I would like to emphasize that Dear Editor: contaminated blood used for his hemop­
course there are very good reasons for qualification) towards students. I am enraged and appalled at the lack hilia, is a clear-cut case for the dissem­
that. The regular procedure is to check I was walking towards Sacred Heart of information and educational ma­ination of information about AIDS to 
in at the gate and request permission this morning, trying to relax between terial about Acquired Immune the Notre Dame community. What 
from the security guards on duty. I classes. As I approached Sorin Hall I Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) available would have happened to Ryan if he had 
must say that in my prior experience saw a member of Notre Dame Security to students, graduate students, faculty been an undergraduate student at 
I had never had any problem with this waving his arms at me, telling me to and personnel here at Notre Dame. Notre Dame? Would he have been 
procedure. I never had any problems move out of the way. I walked towards AIDS is an issue that affects every abused, harassed and kept out of school 
getting past the gate whenever I had him and told him I was headed to the single person at this university. Many like Ryan was? Is this the kind of be­
good reason for it. But on this particular lakes. I think he might have taken that, people are obviously in need of educa­havior we will see when the AIDS issue 
occasion I was shocked by the rude mistakenly I might add, as a challenge tion about this serious health threat, finally reaches the Notre Dame com­
manner in which we were received by of his authority. It was not meant to be but I have yet to see anything regarding munity? Extensive information and 
the guard on duty. Having no reason to that. When I asked him what was going AIDS come from the administration or educational programs for us all will 
feel guilty, we were made to feel very on, he answered with an unfriendly the Student Health Center. Where are prevent such un-Christian and dis­
uncomfortable by his attitude. Not only push and the demand that I get out of the educational pamphlets? Where is graceful actions. 
did he not let us in, but he called the the way. I do not mention the person's the counseling? What is the adminis­We as a community can no longer be 
other gate, where we headed hoping to name, although I did take note of it, tration's policy regarding anyone asso­afraid to confront the issue of AIDS 
meet a far more reasonable person, to because these lines are not an attempt ciated with the university who con­head on. Sure, it's hard to talk about, 
"warn" them about our possibly com­at retribution. Th,ey are written in the tracts AIDS? Will the university admit and of course many people are afraid 
ing. We were received literally as cri­spirit of reconciliation; I am concerned or hire someone who has contracted of the disease. But we should grab this 
minal offenders; without a chance to about the problem incidents like these AIDS, or will we be fired, expelled, ex­bull by the horns before it gets out of 
explain our case, we were ordered to indicate. communicated, or what have you? control. This community cannot afford 
leave the premises and not to come I am not the kind of person that shies While the administration hems and to keep its collective head in the sand 
close to the gates again. away from body contact. But I am very haws over how to bring such a subject as the world around us braces for the 
At this point my surprise had turned sensitive to violence, and there was vio­into this community, all people who impending health disaster that AIDS is to outrage and frustration at our in­lence in this response. I hate to have to have not been educated about AIDS are presenting. We as a Christian Catholic ability to reach any reasonable person say this because I respect authority and at a serious risk. How can the univer­institution should be at the front of the to explain what we needed. We were I recognize the vital role our security sity justify sentencing so many people assault to protect ourselves, those forced to leave the car and walk to the guards play in our community. I have ignorant of AIDS to this serious health around us, and our basic human and security office where we requested per­met many other members of the Secur­threat? Assuming that no one at Notre civil rights. Surely the Catholic com­mission to enter campus. We finally did ity squad that I am pleased to say have Dame engages in pre-marital sex, munity cannot condone ignorance, get in, after wasting a lot of time, but, always been courteous and respectful, extra-marital sex,-or LV. drug use, which breeds hysteria. what's worst of all, after we had been helpful and pleasant people to interact isn't the fact that our nation's blood subjected to a most humiliating and to­with, and this, I should add, when I was supply is partially contaminated with Thomas A. Burke tally unnecessary trial. dressed both as a teacher and as a stu­the AIDS virus enough of a sign to the Off-campus 
Time passed and I forgot the incident. dent (as was the case this morning). 
P.O. Box Q 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"Try not to become a man of success, but rather a man of value." 
Albert Einstein 1879-1955 

General Board 
J 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........... .......................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
I 
·! 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ..... ........................ Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager.. .................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3,1966 

Accent
Monday, September 7, 1987 
page 9 
----~­

Before and after in
Office puts students 
this week's soaps 
A 
II My Children: Skye and severed their relationship. Tom marched out when Cam made a deal with Alan­Adam interrupted their Michael to pay his tuition. SUSAN BUCKLEY 
in their place 
reception to announce his Meredith helped Rick diag­engag,ement to Brooke. After nose a case of cancer. Roxy 
F 
accent writer Ellen tricked Natalie into ad­discovered a swelling on ootball games, classes, 
mitting she and Ross were Johnny's neck. Coming: New dining hall meals, studying. lovers, she left her husband. trials for Roxy. parties, extracurricular Constance told Damon that Loving: Alan told April his activities--all of these fill our their plans against Erica brother had gotten her preg­time at Notre Dame and make were on track. Palmer blew nant. Clay stunned Ava with our college experience someth­up when Nina announced a marriage proposal, which ing we'll always remember. Yet she had married Matt. she accepted. Harry gave in addition to these activities, Coming: A terrifying Ann an engagement ring. something else lingers in the prospect for Mark. thus spurning Gwyn. cabot back of our minds during our Another World: Donna, oon­gave Trisha and Steve their four years here: What will we cerned about Vicki's mood, dream house for a wedding do when we graduate? bought her a new car. Cass gift. Lily and Jack had a tryst But don't panic. A busy office agreed to use Kathleen's in­in his offiCe and narrowly in the basement of the Hes­surance money to set up a escaped discovery by Ann. burgh Library can help answer foundation in her name. Mac Coming: Jack insists it's these difficult questions. Career chewed out eass over a le­over. and Placement Services, open gal matter he mishandled. One Life to Live: Gabrielle from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. week­Rachel warned Sam to stop moved into the Lord man­days, aids students in assess­making waves in the art de­sion to take care of At and ing their skills and Interests, partment. Coming: Peter esc­she agreed to spy on Tina learning about careers toward for Cord. Cord was stunned
alates his attack. which their majors can lead, to learn of his mother's
As The World Turns: Sabrina and conducting job searches. blackmail, but couldn't pry
was encouraged when Seth The office arranges career the reason out of Tina. Lee
didn't report their embrace counseling. special programs, told Mari·Lynn her side of
to Frannie. Margo was dis­
The ObservevDamlan

and senior on-campus the story. Patrick Injected his
mayed to hear Tom warn interviews--all of which assist deadly serum into Kate's
Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services, 
Hal .that he would fight for students in planning and im­seniors for jobs. Just less than Industry Day. On September perfume. In order to secure
her. Duncan correctly plementing career goals. 9000 interviews were arranged .30 thirty corporation represen­figured out that James was -Melinda's release from the Under the direction of Kitty by Career and Placement Ser­tatives will provide information hospital. Cassie agreed to
setting him up as the Fal­Arnold, Paul Reynolds, and Jeff vices. The Weekly Bulletin, for engineering students in the con, as Stenbeck drew sponsor her aunt. and Larry 
Rice, the office of Career and available in the office, lists the Fitzpatrick Hall Concourse from reluctantly said he'd be her
Lucinda and Emily tightlyPlacement Services offers a companies with which seniors 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. into his web. doctor. Coming: Cord's number of opportunities for can interview in the following Arts and Letters Career Day. suspicions mount.
Coming: More trouble for students to receive guidance in weeks. Computers decide On October 7 career represen­Ryan's Hope: Against Rick's
Holden. career planning: which students will be inter­tatives will be available to talk The Bold and The Beautiful: wishes, Ryan met with Catie, DISCOVER. DISCOVER allows viewed by the companies. Such to students with backgrounds Rocco and Canna were who told her Humphrey 
students to conduct a self­factors as the student's date of in the Liberal Arts from 12:00 died. A panicked Ryan was
stricken to learn that Katie assessment of their values, graduation, whether the spe­noon to 4:00p.m. in the Cen­saw their kiss. Mark became trapped in a restricted area. 
interests, and skills on a com­cific company is of high priority ter for Continuing Education. Ryan miscarried in the
jealous. because Donna had puter and responds with a list to the student, and how many Law School Caravan. Various taken money from Rocco. hospital, and Rick blamed 
of careers that correspond with interviews the student has law schools will be represented her. Lizzie returned her wed·
Thorne and Storm offered their qualities. Call the office already had are all taken into in Stepan Center from II a.m. 
comfort to Caroline, who ding dress to Maeve and (2.39-5200) to arrange a time consideration before the com­to 4 p.m. made one more attempt to
finally realized that she to work on the DISCOVER eval­puterized decision is made. MBA Mini Forum. On October listen to John before finding
didn't provoke the rape. Eric uation. Seniors must be registered in 29 representatives from him with Concetta. Ben
raged when Stephanie told Career Counseling. Career and the office to be considered for graduate schools of business vowed to win Lizzie as Jack
him about Bill's plans for Placement Services has five on-campus interviews. will answer questions In the comforted Ryan. Coming:
Thorne. Coming: Bill thirsts professional staff members In addition to these services, CCE from noon to 4 p.m. for vengeance. Old wounds resurface. 
available to counsel students the office has videotaped mock "Seniors should now have a 
Days Of Our Lives: Roman Santa Barbara: After the about their career concerns interviews, information on fairly clear picture of what they 
and Lexie rescued Jennifer charges against Tori were and questions. Students do not summer jobs, internships, and want to do, says Jeff Rice, as­
and Frankie from Nick. Kim dropped, Paul planned to have to be seniors to talk with non-profit service organiza­sistant director of Career and 
was rushed to the hospital steal Tori's and Julia's a counselor, but should call the tions, and up-to-date listings of Placement Services, "but they 
with pneumonia. Shane was babies. C.C. got a court or­office first to make an appoint­job vacancies. The office spon­shouldn't panic if they don't." 
tracked down in time to con­der keeping Qina from ment. sors employer receptions, His key advice to seniors is "to 
vince his wife to take lifesav­seeing Brandon. Cain Group Workshops and during which employers talk to know the job you've applied for 
ing drugs. Eve relished regained more of his Presentations. Throughout the students about available jobs, and take every opportunity to 
taking care of Shane and the memory. Eden's disabilityschool year a number of and junior orientation sessions learn more." A successful Inter­baby without Kim. Adrienne kept her from responding to 
workshops are offered on in the spring about filling out view has a lot to do with how 
confided her rape agony to Cruz, though she wanted to. resume writing. interviewing. profile forms before summer. much a student knows about 
Justin, who responded Pearl discovered a buggingconducting mail campaigns, Upcoming programs put on the potential employer. 
lovingly. Kayla was devas· device Eleanor put in Cruz's and making job decisions. by Career and Placement Ser­Seniors should be registered 
tated by Patch's badmouth­telephone. Jake began his Career Library. Located In the vices include the following: in the Career and Placement 
log and upset when Jack modeling career. Mason Career and Placement Services Placement Nights. The Sep­Services office, have an up­proposed. Coming: Eve rules called C.C., but the line im­
office, the Career Library has tembel' "kickoff' to the recruit­dated profile on file, and check 
the roost. mediately went dead. Com· many books on life planning. ing season has one session for coming Interviewers. 
General Hospital: Bobbie ing: Keeping tabs on self-assessment. and job left, for the College of Arts and The office of Career and 
was shocked when Martha Eleanor. searching skills. It also has Letters, on Tuesday, Septem­Placement Services Is called a 
became sicker. Leaving
pamphlets from about 500 ber 8 at 7:00 p.m. in the Hes­service for a reason: its Monica in the dark. Alan and The Young & The Restless: 
employers. burgh Library Auditorium. The employees and facilities are Edward made plans for their Lauren double dated with 
On-Campus Interviews. Last session will include three IS­there to help you make a regained millions. Aware of Paul and Dana, and realized 
year 275 business and govern­minute talks from different smoother transition from col­Lucy's manipulations, Tony she and Paul had grown ment organizations came to company representatives and a lege to the start of a new 
was still tormented by his apart. Paul assured a Notre Dame to interview live, on-stage Interview. career. 
desire for her. Duke fol­surprised Daria he wanted to lowed Robert and Anna to see her again. Victor gave 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Mt. Rushmore and found out Nikki a taste of her own
l£TS \-1t>,IJ't:. A LOO\... 
that Ms. Devane loved him. medicine, while Nikki consid­
H\ SUR£ WlLL R\JN IN\D 
!>-R;J&l\ OR s~t_l\.1\NG _ The WSB team tried to dis­ered telling her husband the cover Elena's secret before truth. Victor acknowledged her destructive scheme Ashley's growing feelings for could succeed. Coming: The Steven. Phillip confessed to free world in danger!! driving the car, which saved Guiding Light: Reva turned Cricket's job. Cricket Kay to Alan for help when Issued and Jill all vowed to help a summons to have Marah Phillip beat his alcoholism. tested, but was stopped by Coming: Phillip faces the Alex. Josh made plans to future. join Billy in Venezuela. Alan gave Phillip papers that 1987, McNau ht Synd. 
Monday, September 7, 1987 .
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC soccer team lost to Wisconsin-Milwaukee this weekend by a 4-0 score. Details wilil appear in tomorrow's Observer.-The Observer 
New Writers interested in sports writing and who attended last week's open house are asked to attend a brief meeting Wednesday night at 7:30 at The Observer office. Contact Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303 for further information • The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will hold an informational meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in the Grace Hall Pit. Please call Carter at 1723 if you have questions. -The Observer 
The lacrosse team asks that anyone who is interested in playing varsity lacrosse but missed last Sunday's meeting call Coach O'Leary imme­diately at 239-5108. -The Observer The Tae Kwon Do Club will hold its first class and organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. No experience necessary. Wear workout attire. For more information, call Greg Barron at 2180 or Chris Thomas at 3540. -The Observer 
The wrestling team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the team in the ACC football auditorium today at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
TheGymnasticsCiubwillholdamandatory meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information, call Maureen at 284-5119 or Terence at 283-1608. -The Observer 
O.C. Soccer will have a mandatory practice today at 5:30 on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club is forming a league for all interested players. Participants will play one match a week, starting in about two weeks. For more information, call Dave (1420) or Mark (1422). -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 
p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The 5-10 and under Basketball Classic will hold sign-ups tomorrow in the Student Union Board office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from 1-4 p.m. Teams will have 7-man rosters and a $5 entry fee. Space is limited. Any questions call Jim Manning at 1459 or Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
\ 
I 
I I I 
r~ 
I 
Classifieds 
Part-time help wanted. Apply in person NEED BC TICKETS WILL PAY $ call at Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. at Theresa 233-5732 
Notre Dame Ave. Open: 10:00-5:30 pm , 7 days a week. 
NOTICES 

NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA TICK· 
NEED 2 GAs tor MICH or any HOME SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: ETS. WILL PAY$$$! CALL MIKE X4340 GAMES -Call Bridget 271-0864 237·1949; H: 277-8131. WANTED: Junior or senior student with 
I NEED ONLY 1 GA OR STUD TIX TO MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO· transportation to babysit two-year-old boy MICH ST I KNOW YOU CAN SPARE 1! CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE and large clog. Will involve mostly 
CALL FRED AT £1488 ASAP! TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 weekends and nights. Occasional EVE. hous&tlog sitting. Excellent part-lime DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX FOR 
work, good salary. Call Mrs. Knapp 277­
PARENTS FIRST TRIP TO NO! TYPING AVAILABLE 5450. DONT LET ME DISAPPOINT THEM! 287-4082 
WILL PAY IN A BIG WAY! House-cleaner: 1 Saturday per month. CALL BRIAN 27430RKRIS 271-0754 Own transportation. £289-9975. after 6:00pm. NEED 1 MICH STATE GA call MB 233· Wanted : small couch or love seat. Call 
5732
LOST/FOUND 

Drew 283-3666. 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233· SHARP, ARTICULATE 
.5732 graduate student to assist Niles manu­
IF YOU HAVE FOUND A BLUE BUD facturing company as bartender and 
I URGENTLY need 3 GA's tor the Mic­chauffeur for NO home football games. 
LIGHT KEY -GHAIN WITH 4 KEYS 
higan State game. Call Roger at 3533. Must be personable and able to interact
PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1160!! 
............................................. 
with top executives. Please call683-81 00 
HELP!!! NEED 1 (ONE) GA FOR MIC· EXT4737 lor interview.
LOST: SET OF KEYS IN NEULAND SCI· 
HIGAN ST. x2101 ASK FOR NICK AND IDENTIFY KEY NUMBER. 
ENCE. AM 123. CALL 3624 OR 2156 Bass player looking for band, have good 
Need MSU GA's and student tix. Call equip. and exp., some vocal; call Paul 
Lisa at £4588. after 5:30 272-3779
LOST KEYS: AT 107 HURLEY ON 9'2. RED BUDWEISER RING AND BRASS SCRIPT "L" WITH SIX KEYS. PLEASE 
Need 2 MSU Student Tickets. Also Need NEED ROOMMATES TO SHARE A 
GA's And Student Tickets For USC. Will NICE 3 BDRM HOUSE. $67 MO. PLUS 
HELP. HURRY. REWARD. TOM: 1850 
Pay $$$$. Call Bill £2003. UTILITIES. CLOSE TO SCHOOL (1 MI.)
LOST: H anyone linds a pink General 
CALL DAN 287-4925 AFTER 7 PM. 
I'm not Catholic (gasp), and my parents bus stop, please contact Katherine at 
Electric getto blaster left at the LeMans 
are divorced (gasp). Can you help me 284-4134. out with one Navy GA ?? Call Tim at 1223. 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272· 
Thanks. 0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK·
LOST: CLEAR PLASTIC LITE BEER DAYS.
KEY CHAIN WITH 3 KEYS. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL JIM AT 1029. 
NEED TICKETS!!

REWARD!!! 
TWO MICH. ST GA'S& TWO ALABAMA 
..................... 

GA'S CALL GARRETT 3506 
FOR SALE
HELP!!! IF YOU FOUND A BLUE JEAN JACKET CALL TIM AT 1204. BIG 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC GAME.
REWARD!!! $$$$$ Mac 512K wtase, $950 or best offer. CALL CINDY 277-1320. 654·3323, leave message.
Lost in the •icinily ot O'Shag last week a white. blue, and yellow beaded bracelet 
1982 DATSUN 210 4-SPEED 50,000
and a blue, white, and gold beaded MILES NEW TIRES, STEREO CAS· I need 2 GA tix tor theearing. Sentimental value. Please call SETTE, BODY DAMAGE. DEPEND· USC and Alabama games!
2738. ENDAD ABLE IN COLD WEATHER 1,600 OR Call Boo Boo, £3684 BEST OFFER. 282·2793 ANYTIME.
FOUND: Calculator in O'Shag Computer LEAVE MESSAGE.
Room last Thursday night. To claim, call Mark x2385. 
HELP! I need MICHIGAN GA's. Call Jane ' ' ' RAYBANS ' ' ' Aviator 31.80 Out· at 2179 rn 3704. doorsman 35.00 Wayfarer 29.30 Wayhlrerll 32.10 Need 1 Navy Ticket Save 40%;catalogs;1-800-4RAYBAN GA Or Student Call Chris £1593
FOR RENT 

Will Pay Big Bucks! TIE-DIES TIE-DIES TIE·DIES CALL 2033 $$$ NAVY TIX $$$ Need 5 Navy tix Call NICE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE 1978 Honda Wagon many new parts Karen 271-0585 NEIGHBORHOOD 288-095!>255-3684 $650 or best call 288·6240 after 6 Need (4) GA's tor Navy. Call Jane Anne FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 1978 VW SCI ROCCO JERRY 239-5802 at 283-2998. 
FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889 COUCH, DESK, SHELVING, WILL I need 2 Mich. St. GAs Please call David DELIVER. 683-1049. 
at 4235 EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 
·································· 

OR 234·3827. 
I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE BOSTON COL· LEGE GAME! CALL FRANK 3104. Share large house near downtown. 100 mo. e 113 utll. 
TICKETS 

HELP!! Need 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs Gred studenl, non-smoker. 289-8792, 
. Have 2 USC tix to trade. Call Kate 277· Paul 
Pm TIX WANTED CALL MATI 3349 2944. 
SAVE ME!I1 BROTHER PLUS NO MICH COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL 
MIKE 1741 STATE TIX EQUALS 1 DEAD SIS· VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­
DIANE 2627 TALS 272-5959 
Need six Michigan State student tickets ····················· or GA's. Call Mike at 271-D765. 
BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL For Renll&2 bedroom apartments close 
HOME GAMES! CALL 4579 to campus Call 291-6509 after 4:00 tor details 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH. MICH ST. MY MOTHER NEEDS A QUICK & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 COUPLE OF TICKETS FOR MICH. 3-BEDROOM APARTMENT FULLY 
STATE. PLEASE HELP. CALL MARC AT FURNISHED BEAUTIFUL OLD HOME 
288·7105. 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS CALL 233 
HELP! I NEED 8 USC TICKETS. CALL 
RANDY AT 3185 

6298 
WILL BUY, SELL, OR TAPDANCE WANTED-I NEED 1 OR 2 TIX FOR NUDE FOR. MICH.ST-STU. OR GA.WILL PAY BEING EVICTED! Must rent out 2 
CASH.CALL 1793.PLEASE!I! bedroom apt. within walking distance of 

I NEED USC GA's have all others & $$ 
campus. 271-0513 

to trade, David x1712 Need 6 MICH ST. TIX CaD Steve at 271· 0573 NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE 
I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX--AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574. I have to convert a Wisconsin tan!l To do this I need 1 stud. or GA USC ticket. 
WANTED 

HIRING ALL pOSITIONS -FULL TIME. I DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S OR Call Kristen 1367. PART TIME ·WALKING DISTANCE. ONE GA AND ONE STUDENT TICKET NICOLA'S REST . 1705 SOUTH BEND FOR NAVY GAME. 225 LEWIS OR CALL AVE. 271·5666. APPLY 11\1 PERSON! 3735 
n.a...wrNon o.me office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .:c:epts classified ed¥erttslng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtdar. n.a...wr s.1nt Mery's office, located on the third floor of liiCIPr Collge Cent•. accepta classlfleda from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday thfOugh Frtc~ar. Deadline for next~ clalllfieds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prapMt, el~ In peraon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five 
~~day. 

Have 50yd U of M Tlx. Trade tor Mlch MimiP., Here's your second personal (su~able torMy family has already ordered St TI>Obest otter. Mike X3775 wrapping fish). Thanks for coming up and BLUE AND GOLD 
BODY PAINT WANTED: 4 TICKETS FOR THE MIC· 
seeing me. You're welcome again 
HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL anytime. flrst-bom or my teat paycheck If I can tor the NAVY game. You can have my 
EVENINGS AFTER 5:00. COLLECT 
-MarkCALLS ACCEPTED. ELKHART 264· 1761. ORIENTATION1NFORMATION have your stud or GA tlx. Please call 

Ann Marte x1367. 
MEHING FOR ANYONE INTERESTED NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR USC GAME IN TUTORING ILLITERATE ADULTS AT WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY NO HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE 
·OCT 241 FAMILY COMING FORB-DAY THE CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING CALL MIKE X3138 SKILLS. ALL WELCOME. 6:30-8:30CALL MATI AT 1404 
MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY WE ALL WANT TICKETS EVENINGS IN THE CSC.
Need Mich State tix !I Call Drew 283· 3666. 
BUT I NEED THEM FOR MICHIGAN, MICHIGAN STATE AND BOSTON COL· I'm a beefy strong tighter who lives off LEGE YOUR REWARD WILL BE SOME the land. cross me just once feel the back SERIOUS CASH CALL STEVE AT 232· of my hand.-3169 HELP!!! I desparately need Michigan tix 9816 and am willing to pay $$$$ call Linda A FEW PLACES STILL AVAILABLE IN 2485 or leave a note at 340 Howard KAPLAN 10·17 LSAT COURSE, 2ND NEED MSU TICKETS SECTION. CALL 272-4135 TODAY! WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TIX. 213· 
GA or STU 422·2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. call carolyn x3872 MANTLEITES UNITE!tl The tirst general staff meeting tor all ot you EAGER BEAVERS out there will be I need msu tickets desperately Wed., Sap!. 9 at 7:30p.m. in HAGGAR
NEED MICHIGAN TIX;CALL 271-9339 call joe at 1795 GAME ROOMII THIS WILL BE A VERY AFTER 8PM IMPORTANT MEETING ... FULL OF LOTS OF JUICY INFORMATION ... 
NEED 1 STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR 
RELATIVES COMMING LONG 015-LET'S GET THE BALL ROLLING SONAVY GAME-CALL MARK x2385 
TANCE! WANT TO SEE "NO" WIPE WE CAN MAKE THIS YEARBOOK THE OUT "BAMA"I WILL PAY CASH$$$ BEST SAINT MARY'S HAS EVERNEED TWO MSU GA'S CALL JER· TODAY!! NOW!! CALL 1683, ASK FOR SEEN!! WEATHER FORCAST·RY/1450 
TOM. THE BIGGEST BRAINSTORM IN HIS. TORY IS HEADED OUR WAY NEXTHELP! 
PARENTS HAVE NEVER EXPERI· WED.!!
I n-2 GA'a for USC, call Dan at 
ENCED NO FOOTBALL GAME. I NEED 
1450. Please. 

2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL JIM AT 3366. Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame i St. Mary's College (GLNDSMC) invites in­
ALABAMA TICKETS!! I NEED 4 OF THEM!! CALL SEAN 1:2836 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S terested members of the community to CALL JENNY 284-4154 contact our organization for further inter· mation at P.0. Box 194: Notre Dame. IN
NEED 4 USC GA'S FOR FAMILY WHO 46556. Confidentiality guaranteed. 
HAS NEVER SEEN A NO HOME GAME! 
CALL 234-8047 ASK FOR MIKE ATTENTION: THE MAGPIE only has 
two weeks left to become de­(while humming the Notre Dame tight 
PERSONALS 

virginized. Michigan women beware!
song ... ) 

It Is unfortuMte that we hava to deal 
with auch youngatera. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 
Cheer, Cheer lor old Notre Dame 
Please help my brother to do the same 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE

He'll be here tor the BC game We need to get him tickets quickly, right 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN MARY MARLEY HAPPY 21ST Love 
Mom and Dadaway! 
Tho the odds be great or small 
WAKE UP! We'll get them 'cuz we'll pay more than 
HEY JANICE!!! Weill guess you won (for now), and you're right. I am sorry that I And then we'll all watch her royal sons called you evil and malicious.! should've 
all ····a4cc.iius·aA-ccii·us..iiAc-ciius··· 
go marching added in sneaky and unpredictable. onward to victory! Executives! Meeting 3:30 today in THANKS FOR A GREAT B-DAY PRES· Chicago Room. 
ENT!!!(and to show you what a nice guy We n-two or more GA or Stud tlx To all interested: OPEN meeting Wed. I am. I won't even mention teddy bears to the BC game Call Therese at 4559 
Bpm Walsh EVERYONE WELCOME and soccer players) S. 
or 2698 FOR THE BEST IN MUSICAL ENTER· 
SMC STUDENTS 

I NEED TICKETS!tl TAINMENT If you have taken a CLASS AT NOTRE I need two GA's for Boston College and CALL DAME, Monday or Wednesday after 9 two student tickets tor Navy. Call Bill at ENTERTAINMENT UNUM/TED _,. pm 4653. THE PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY 
SERVICE 

BASS PLAYER WANTED I NEED 6 BC GA'S. P~ase call Shannon ASK FOR BRIAN 2743 OR 271-'1754 Bass player needed tor established 2519 campus band. Call Ted at 2387. 
BASS PLAYER WANTED """SNIFF" "SNIFF" MY P'S CALLED Save cash and purchase your teXlbooks: AND SAID, "WE DISOWN YOU." I AM three to five day service tor teXlbook or· AN ORPHAN!II YOU. ONLY YOU KIND· ders. Also, you can sell your teXlbooks IV CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP serious 
HEARTED SOULS WITH 2 GA'S FOR bible study by students with anyone in­
tor cash at Pandora's Bookstore. We're 

ANY HOME GAME CAN SAVE ME located on 808 Howard St., open 1 0:00· terested, all are welcome. Mon nights 7­FROM ABANDONMENT. OH e5:30 pm, 7 days a week. 8:30, 239 lewis call cindy x2156 or karel PLEASE??II KIM 284-4083 2561684. 
Michigan State tlckata BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING I need to get ahold of six student or GA PIECES OF A DREAM and they need four Michigan State tick· tickets. Call Mike at 271-0765. PIECES OF A DREAM ets. Call Brutus NOW at 283-1483. Urgh! PERFORMING SATURDAY 9:00PM 
Go Irish! STEPAN CENTER 5 !liD gals need ride to U of M game. 
AFTER SET DANCE, 11 :00-2:00 Call Bridget and Melissa: 2525 
TICKETS AT THE CELLAR, $3.00 AD· BCtlcketa!tl VANCE.$4.00 AT THE DOOR 
-; absolutely must have three. DESPERATE!II OR CALL BCAC 239-6841 Hyou have GAs or student tix, call 283­1151. need MSU TICKET! 
STUDENT or GA! 

NEED call christy x3690 
MSU and USC I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH ST! PLEASE TICKETS CALL NED AT 3515 call carolyn x3872 HELP! K-TICKETS FOR ALABAMA •K•-I desperately need riders to e~her Louis· 1NEED LOTS ville or Bowling Green, Kenlucky the CHIPS!! call Don 272-37711 weekend ol September 11. Hinlerested. TUESDAY NITE FREUDIAN SLIP $2.00 please call Debbie at x2286. 
Pitchers all nile tong!! Same old story--relatives want tix and 
··················. 

are promising large inheritance for them. My family are Marquette and Wisconsin TOM MOONEY It's me again, stiN eyeing Sell me two GA's tor any home game fans. Sail me your GA tix to the NAVY your CABOOSE .. and share the wealth. Can 2378 after game and help me convert them to NO 7:00pm. t~ns. can John at 2099. SMC Damsel in distress needs 6 Mich 
St. tickets! 284-5460 Rich Uncle will pay top dollar tor four MIGHIGAN ST. TIXII IF YOU HAVE .......•.•.............................................•.. Navy GA's between the thirty yard lines. THEM, I NEED THEM. PLEASE!!! CALL WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE Call Clare 284-4104 or 312·750-4981. MONICA AT 4238. CALL 284--4329 

Monday, September 7, 1987 
The Observer page 11 

AP Photo 
LSU running back VIctor Jones (34) powers In for a touchdown In the Tigers' victory over Texas A & M on Saturday. A summary of some of the weekend's college football action appears at right. 
The Observer The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For further information contact Kevin Becker or Mark Pankowski at The Observer (239-5303) 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------, 
{~j ~~~~u-~~~!
:$1 oFF sruoENr-cu-T1 
: Reg. $8 Ma~~ : 
r----------------~--1 
I $5QFF ANY PERM I 
I MasterCuts I 
I farnlyhaircuttasl 
~--~---------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
College football roundup
OU, Nebraska romp in openers 
Associated Press 
The scene is repeated every year. Oklahoma and Nebraska roll over outclassed opponents and Barry Switzer and Tom Os­borne moan and groan. 
In fact, that was the way it went for most of the nation's top-rated college football teams, who began their schedules against teams with little chance to beat them. Only sixth-ranked Louisiana State and No. 10 Miami played ranked opponents, the Tigers defeating No. 15 Texas A&M 17­3 and the Hurricanes beating Florida 31-4 in a game in which Florida quarterback Kerwin Bell injured his shoulder. 
Top-ranked Oklahoma ran over North Texas State 69-14 and No. 2 Nebraska beat Utah State 56-12, getting ready for a game next Saturday with third­ranked UCLA, which battered San Diego State 47-14. 
No. 5 Auburn beat Texas 31­3; No. 8 Florida State downed Texas Tech 40-16 and No. 9 Clemson defeated Western Carolina 43-0. 
No. 11 Penn State began defense of its national title with a 45-19 romp over Bowling Green, No. 13 Washington beat Stanford 31-21, No. 17 Tennes­see beat Colorado State 49-3, and Georgia, tied with Florida at No. 20, beat Virginia 30-22. 
The lopsided wins didn't keep the coaches from moaning. 
"The thing that disappointed me was the physical errors we made," Switzer said after the Sooners lost two of six fumbles and were penalized 10 times for 75 yards. "You only have about 
possessions in a football game," he said. "Against a good football team we'll get beat." 
Nebraska rolled up 603 yards in total offense, including 157 rushing yards by Steve Taylor, a school record for a quarter­back. Keith Jones ran for three touchdowns and Taylor rushed for two. 
But Osborne wasn't ecstatic. 
Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm :· Washington Hall 
~ 

:'\ 
Tickets on sale at the Washington 
'.. 
\ Hall box office M4-M6 12-6 pm 
\ 
$4.00 ND!SMC student "~ -..;s~~~ ~ 
s ~ 
:'\

' $8.00 public ~~ ~ ~ 
s 
For information, ~~~'\-~~~~ ~~'b-'\­
' 
s call 239-7757 ~~~ ~ :'\ 
" 

"I chewed them out at halftime," he said. "I didn't think we played very well. At the end of the game, I thought we had played fair. But we bet­ter get better with it or we're going to have an awful hard time next week." 
UCLA 47, SO State 14 
Gaston Green rushed for 135 
yards on 19 carries and quar­
terback Troy Aikman, a trans­
fer from Oklahoma making his 
first start for UCLA, completed 
eight of 10 passes for 67 yards 
as the crushed the defending 
Western Athletic Conference 
champions. 
UCLA went ahead just 5:05 
into the game on a two-yard 
touchdown run by Mel Farr, 
capping a 36-yard, six-play 
drive that began after an inter­
ception by linebacker Ken Nor­
ton. The Bruins scored again 
1:47 later on a 74-yard punt return by Darryl Henley, and made it 21-0 when Eric Ball raced eight yards for a touch­down on the first play of the second period.
Auourn 31, Texas 3 
Quarterback Jeff Burger 
completed 16 of 22 for 269 yards 
and two touchdowns after a 
summer of controversy that al­
most ended his college career 
as Auburn spoiled the Texas 
coaching debut of David 
McWilliams. 
Burger, a fifth-year senior, 
almost lost his eligibility this 
season after he was found 
guilty of plagiarism on a term 
paper. But the school's admin­
istration reversed an honesty 
committee's recommendation 
for a two-quarter suspension. 
LSU 17, Texas A&M 3 
Mike Archer, at 34 the youngest head coach in major college football, got his career off to a good start, thanks to the LSU defense he used to coach. 
Victor Jones scored touch­downs on runs of one and two yards and the defense allowed Texas A&M only 67 first-half yards. The Aggies didn't cross midfield on their own until the the third period, by which time LSU led 17-0. 
It marked the fifth season­opening setback for Coach Jackie Sherrill in his six seasons at Texas A&M. 
FSU 40, Texas Tech 16 
Danny McManus completed 19 of 34 passes for 275 yards and two touchdowns and ran for an­other score, while Dayne Wil­liams added two TDs for the Seminoles, who broke a 13-13 tie with 17 second-quarter points. 
Derek Schmidt became the Seminoles' career scoring leader with 279 points when he kicked a 44-yard field goal for 16-13 lead. McManus ran six yards for a touchdown and passed 37 yards to Herb Gainer to make it 30-16. 
Clemson 43, W. Car. 0 
Freshman tailback Terry Al­len scored twice and David Treadwell kicked three field goals for Clemson, which began all but one of its six first­half scoring marches began in­side Western Carolina's 32­yard line. Two TDs came after long punt returns, two after fumble recoveries and the other following a blocked punt. 
The Tigers set the tone early by driving 69 yards in 10 plays on their first possession, which Allen capped with a 9-yard scoring run on his fourth carry as a collegian. Allen scored on another 4-yard run to make it 24-0 after linebacker Jesse Hatcher blocked a punt out of bounds at the Western Carolina 16. 
-Miami (Fla.) 31, Florida 4 
Steve Walsh passed for 234 yards and a touchdown and Miami's defense intercepted Bell three times and sacked him five more, causing a slightly separated shoulder that could keep him out of the next game with Tulsa. 
Walsh, a sophomore who in­herited the job from Reisman Trophy winner Vinny Tes­taverde, completed 17 of 27 passes in his first college start. 
The interceptions came as Miami broke the game open with 13 points in a seven-minute span of the third quarter. Linebacker Randy Shannon returned one 41 yards for a touchdown to give Miami a 24-2 ~ead midway through the per­
Iod. 

Florida's only points came on two safeties, each following poor snaps from center that sailed over the head of Miami punter Jeff Feagles and through the end zone. 
SObering
Advice .~ 
cansav~
..

alife ,~ 
/. 

Top seeds advance in Open 
Associated Press the Soviet Union 6-0, 6-2 in 64 hundred people. minutes, while Shriver downed "It's hard to remain intense NEW YORK -Top-seeded Laura Golarsa of Italy 6-1, 6-2 when the stadium is half empty 
Steffi Graf, No. 3 Chris Evert in 42 minutes. and your opponent isn't playing and No.5 Pam Shriver breezed Also advancing were well," said Shriver, who has past unseeded opponents Sun­seventh-seeded Zina Garrison, won 18 straight matches. day to advance to the fourth No. 10 Manuela Maleeva, No. round of the U.S. open tennis 11 Lori McNeil and No. 13 Syl­After winning the first set in championships. via Hanika. 16 minutes, Shriver was con­
The three winners lost a total In men's play, second-seeded cerned that the match would of seven games on the stadium Stefan Edberg and No. 3 Mats end too quickly. court at the National Tennis Wilander moved into the fourth Center. round with straight-set vic­"My folks drove up (from 
Graf needed only 38 minutes tories. Lutherville, Md.) to watch to beat Patricia Tarabini of Ar­Shriver's match, the first of me," she said. "I figured I had gentina 6-2, 6-0. Evert the day on the stadium court, to be out there for at least 45 eliminated Natalia Zvereva of was played before a few minutes." AP Photo 
Martina Navratllova, who advanced Saturday, was joined by three 
Junior Zanette Bennett "We came back and played 
more of the U.S. Open's top seeds as no major upsets occurred In 
tallied 24 kills against Ball very well against Ball State,"
Regroup 
women's play Sunday. 

State, breaking the former said Lambert. continued from page 16 Notre Dame record of 23 which Despite finishing third of four urday night to defeat Ball she set last season. Sophomore teams in the tournament, the 
~ Granger Shell

State, 15-12, 12-15, 15-8, 15-8. setter Taryn Collins continued Irish regained composure after Several individuals turned in to pace the Irish offensive at­the loss to a much-improved ~ SR 23 & Fir Rd.
!
top performances, and two tack and recorded a school­Hoosier team to defeat the Car­
I Presents its

school records were set in the record 56 assists in the four dinals and bring their record victory. games. on the young season to 2-1. 1 New 24 inch Giant Deli Sandwich 
I THE GAME BREAKER
WANTED

Irish 
~~ $9.99 with coupon ~
BUY usc vs. NO 
continued from page 1b 
~~ It could bring out the 6'5" ~
OBSERVER FOOTBALL TICKETS 
l______2,~~~b. aepeti!~1~~~~-----J
training hard through others," 
CLASSifiEOS 21.3-422-2812 
said Ryan. fARLY AM OR t:vt:NINOS Although they lost the Trian-.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~:;~~~~;;~;;;;iiii;........................ 
gular, the returning runners have made impressive ad­vancements over last year, and 
Beforeyou choose along distance 
the new faces already are making their marks. "It was bad to have the 
service,take a dose looK.
course problems affect the top 10 finishers," said Ryan. "We could have possibly knocked one or both of them off. This will just give us some motiva­tion when we face those teams again." 
The team travels this weekend to the Detroit Invita­tional. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
You may be thinking about there. He did make a few men­
choosing one of the newer tal errors, but we can live with carriers over AT&T in order to those for now." save money. Think again. Thanks to little if any offen­Since January 1987, AT&Ts sive pressure on the part of the 
rates have dropped more than
Bulldogs, Grace said he felt 
15% for direct-dialed out-of­
confident enough to leave the 
state calls. So they're lower than
freshmen on defense and move 
you probably realize. For infor­
Lowney outside. Lowney had 
an excellent second half mation on specific rates, you making runs down the left side can call us at 1 800 222-0300. and adding to the Notre Dame And AT&T offers clear longoffense. 
distance connections, operator assistance, 24-hour customer Grace indicated that, for service, and immediate credit 
now, Lowney and Drury will 
for wrong numbers. Plus, you
still split time at sweeper. 
can use AT&T to call from
IRISH ITEMS -Wingback 

anywhere to anywhere, all over
Paul LaVine had to leave the 
the United States and to over
game in the second half be­cause of recurring chest pains. 250 countries. LaVigne said he had been You might be surprised at hospitalized the previous week how good a value AT&T reallyto have tests done, but nothing 
is. So before you choose a 
was found. 
long distance company, pick up the phone. 
Friday night's game Notre Dame 2, Drake 0 Drake 0 0 0 Notre Dame 0 2 2 
Firat HaH No scoring. 
Second Hall Notre Dame· Morris 2 (McCourt) 74:06. Notre Dame· Roemer 1 (Behrje) 83:00. 

Shots on Goal Drake 3 0-3 
ATs.T 
Notre Dame 8 9 • 17 
The right choice. 
SaVM -Jensen (Drake) 3, Heyer (Drake) 5, Lyons (Notre Dame) 1. Fouls -Drake 26, Notre Dame 17. Comer• ·Drake 2, Notre Dame 11 . Yellow Carda • Stebbins (Notre Dame) 40:30, Platt (Drake) 64:40. Offlclala ·Bella (referee), Garber and Hajdaj 
(linesmen). AttendanCe· 2,112. ~~------------------------------------------------· 



.. 
McEnroe 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -John McEnroe drew a $17,500 fine and a two­month suspension Sunday for his verbal outbursts during a third-round match at the U.S. Open. 
McEnroe's agent, Peter Lawler, said McEnroe would appeal the penalties, which cannot go into effect until the appeal is reviewed by the Men's International Profes­sional Tennis Council. 
McEnroe, who will play ninth-seeded Andres Gomez in the fourth round, has 10 days to file an appeal after the Open ends Sept. 13. If he loses the appeal, the two-month suspen­sion would begin the Monday after the decision is reached. 
The council fined McEnroe a total of $7,500 for his behavior during a five-set victory over Slobodan Zivojinovic Saturday. Another $10,000 was automati­
hit with suspension 
cally tacked on because it was $5,000 for verbal abuse and 
the second time this year that $2,500 for unsportsmanlike con­
he has exceeded the $7,500-duct. 
mark in fines. "It's an arbitrary total," 
McEnroe drew a point Farrar said. "I took each sit­
penalty for cursing and yelling uation as I saw it." 
at chair umpire Richard Ings McEnroe's profanity was not 
during Saturday's match and a heard on CBS' telecast of the 
game penalty for swearing at match because it occurred 
a CBS employee holding a during commercial breaks. 
microphone at courtside. The However, the language could 
four-time Open winner began be heard by satellite dish 
his tirade after questioning owners who were receiving the 
several line calls in the second raw feed of the telecast. 
set. CBS later showed one of 
Ken Farrar, the council's McEnroe's outbursts on tape 
chief of supervisors, said with the profane language 
McEnroe's behavior was edited out. 
among the worst he had seen A suspension would cover all 
since becoming a supervisor Grand Prix tournaments, but 
eight years ago. not exhibitions or non­
"Verbally, it probably ranks sanctioned events. 
at the top," he said during a Players can be fined up to 
news conference at the Na­$25,000 and suspended for one 
tional Tennis Center. "We've year for "aggravated behav­
had some physical abuse that ior," but an MIPTC spokes­
was pretty bad." woman said the maximum 
The $7,500 fine included penalty has never been levied. 


FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
Steve Waller (Controller) 
with 

Dan Poorman Beth Schneider (Notre Dame '86) (Notre Dame '87) 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 7:00PM Upper Lounge, University Club Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come meet and talk with recent alumni about career opportunities at General Mills. 

-~-----...~----­
Murphy brings high 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
First-year Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy is not too well known around the Notre Dame community. The feeling is not mutual. 
"Notre Dame has encaps­ulated my whole life," said Murphy. "Since I was a young kid, all I remember is Notre Dame football and basketball. I used to write letters to Digger Phelps. I kid him that I prob­ably held him up from recruit­ing because he had to answer so many of my letters. 
"This is a dream come true for me, but it's also a chal­lenge, and it's also something I think I'm ready for." 
Murphy's challenge is to try and turn around a team that posted a 15-29 record last season and has developed a habit in recent years of losing close games. 
At 28 years old, Murphy has coached in all phases of the game. He served as head coach at Division-III school Claremont-Mudd-Scripts, was the youngest manager in pro­fessional baseball when he di­rected the Class A Tri-Cities Triplets, and will manage the Holland baseball team in the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics. 
"There aren't many people who've been lucky enough to have the opportunities that I've had," said Murphy. "I'm not saying I've earned all these op­portunities -I've been lucky and fortunate -but as far as being ready, there's no doubt Notre Dame wouldn't have hired me if I wasn't ready." 
To improve fortunes for the Irish this spring, Murphy has had the team adjust to a few of his personal philosophies as keys to success. 
Murphy's Law No.1 ­Upgrade the schedule 
It's not news that Notre Dame will be playing Big Ten schools and most of the tougher Midwestern schools this spring. But Murphy also has added teams from other regions to the list of opponents. 
"We play Duke and Wake Forest from the ACC," said Murphy. "We'll also play In­diana three times and Indiana State, which finished in the Top 20 last year." 
While the 1988 schedule is not yet completed, Murphy also in­dicated there was a good pos­sibility the Irish would return 

~ 
) to the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Notre Dame left the conference to become an in­dependent in the 1987 season. 
Murphy is also planning for the Irish to start their 60-game schedule in late February. 
Murphy's Law No.2 -Revise the fall season 
Notre Dame traditionally has played a fall schedule which included several games against other Midwestern schools. The Irish still will com­pete against other schools this fall, but now they will be scrim­mages, with nobody keeping score or recording statistics. 
"I never wanted to play a game in a kept-score situation unless you were playing to win, and in these games we're going to play to evaluate," said Murphy. "Why have the players feel negatively about thinking, 'Hey, I got the loss' when in actuality we weren't playing to win?" 
Murphy's Law No.3 -Cut the roster 
Under former Irish coach Larry Gallo last year, the Irish had as many as 45 players on the team roster. Murphy is planning to include only about 30 players on the team this year. 
"I can't keep 40-some bal­lplayers, I've got to keep bal­lplayers I think can be major contributors," said Murphy. "Some of that is based on po­tential, some of that is based on what they've done. I've got to only keep guys who can help us, whether that's 21, or that number's 31 or 51, that's what I'm going to keep. There are not 45 people who are Division-! ballplayers, and I've got to keep a workable number, plus the fact that I'm not a good enough coach to coach 45 people." 
Murphy's Law No.4 -Be Ag­
gressive 
Last year, the Irish were 6-17 
in games decided by two runs 
or less and extra-inning games. 
Murphy is well aware he will 
have to change that record this 
spring. 
"We've got to be aggres­
sive," said Murphy. "Aggres­
sion is the best identity that this 
team can have. We're not going 
to sit back and wait for them 
to do their thing. We've got to 
do our thing and make them 
react to us." 
Murphy also knows he has to 
give his players a winning at­
titude following two straight 
losing -seasons by the Irish. 
Murphy has included several 
expectations in first 
intrasquad games. 

"One positive thing, overall, is that they're great individuals and great people. Negatively, overall, they don't believe in themselves as baseball players," said Murphy, "but once we push them to the wall and prepare them so well, hopefully the result will be, 'I believe in myself and I deserve to win. I expect to win.' " 
Murphy is hoping his philos­phies will bring a gradual change that eventually will lead the Irish to national prominence in a sport where Notre Dame has not seen much success recently. 
"We have to start slowly; nothing's going to happen over­The Observer -Kohs night," said Murphy. "But I Mike Harmon and the Notre Dame baseball team are getting used think we can be as strong as to some new Ideas under first-year head coach Pat Murphy. Steve any other program in the Megargee features Murphy's outlook on the Irish In his story at left. country. I firmly believe that. It's going to take time, but I think we can do it." 

FOOTBALL CONCESSION
At 28, Murphy definitely has the time to build the program, STAND PACKETS but it probably will take a while to see if his childhood dream will become a nightmare or are now available in the Student have the happiest of endings. 
Activities Office tor all organizations that were awarded stands. 
(List of organizations with concession stands is posted in the Main Lounge in LaFortune.) 
DEADLINE FOR PICKING UP PACKETS IS 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
(If you do not pick up your packet, you forfeit your stand and it will be awarded to an alternate.) 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
Meetingfor all Seniors who are Interested in law school 
7:00 P· m.
TONIGHT 
Memorial Library Auditorium 
IMPORTANT LSAT INFORMATION AVAILABLE 
Attendonc~ mandatoryfor &nfora who pion to att~nd low school 
) r 
,, ..................................................................................... 
JOIN SARG :
I 
i 
I 
I 
The Student Alumni Relations Group
) 
is seeking new members. SARG sponsors c:areer Days, 
i 

Lecture Series, Geographic Clubs, Career Information Nights 
. I

and much more. Become a part of action! Pick up application In 
i

201 Administration Building. Dead line for 


The Daily Crossword
Freshmen 
ACROSS 1 Sp. house 
Check out our offices on the third floor of the LaFortune 5 Above: pref. 
10 Diet no-noStudent Center. You could be part of the staff of over 200 14 Muslim prince 
15 Stews .,.,_+-+--+-­
students who bring The Observer to the entire Notre Dame 16 Over the hill 
17 Tune
and Saint Mary's community. We need reporters, photog­18 Dodecanese 
Island
raphers, production personnel, even copy editors. Many 19 Family 
chronicle
freshmen hold key positions each year at The Observer. Be 
20 Imposed 22 Gem
one of them. 
24 Armed guard· 26 Bangkok 
resident 27 Onward 29 Flying pref. 31 Counter1elt 
35 Hospital area 36 Prayer 39 Not any 40 Country 
monogram 41 Pilasters 
Monday 42 Br. Inc. 43 Semester © 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 45 More concise 
Campus 
All Rights Reserved 

10 a.m.-12 p.m.: Registration for Music Lessons, Notre Dame Music Department 
47 Probe preparatory and continuing studies in the music program. To register, call Darlene 48 City on the 4 Painter or Catello, director, 232-5141. Ruhr sculptor 50 Place 5 Old lt. coin
7 p.m.: Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film "Singin' in the Rain," directed 
51 Employable 6 Rubber tree
by Gene Kelly and Stanley Donen, Annenberg Auditorium. 
old style 7 22A, 57A, 30
9 p.m.: Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Film "Nosferatu," German. An­53 Old car and 320 nenberg Auditorium. 55 Behind a ship 8 Space 57 Gems 9 Ledger entry 61 Proverbs 10 Shape 64 Magnani of 11 Out movies 12 Clothes 65 -Arabia 13 Lath 67 Falana of 21 Repeat
Dinner Menus 
song 23 Bar bill 68 Abominable 25 Actress Ella 
Snowman 27 Woodwind 69 Famous Flynn 28 Gobi stops 70 Short jacket 30 Meat fare
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 71 Germ 32 Certain bars 72 Time of life 33 Up to the time
Brown Derby Sandwich Roast Turkey with Dressing 
73 Thrall of yore ofStir Fry Chicken and Sweet and Sour Pork 34 Marsh plant 49 Modem: pref. 58 Arrow polson DOWN 37 Tumcoat 52 lr. district 59 Put In money
Vegetables Fettucini with Mushrooms 
1 Summon 38 Born 54 Beginning 60 Challenge
Baked Sole with Lemon But­
Deli Bar 2 Fr. friend 44 My1hlcal 56 Formal wear 62 NC college ter 3 Certain creature 57 Calendar 63 Logical Ingots 46 Repented segments 66 Put on
Roman Rice and Beans 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

ON 7H£ KIGHT,  
tl/1? Y/1 6fT  5TCVLI  FKe~H ff<OZEN YtJ&fii{T...  I HAV€ 5€€N TH€  KICK/N6 IJNI? 5CK€AMIN6  
M€ fl/5T1/CH!t7  H!W£ Arl  Oft/ 7Hc UFT,  FIJTVI{£ OF ff(OZEN  Wit./.. TH€ RJ0t./.5H 8€"  
NVr-UK& [  fMPKOVetrf£NT  COW. CI?€11MY  *5SI3?T•.. ANI? IT /5  (lf</166€1? fNf()  
mw Yfl r  OVER Ic£  1lJf(/.  YE!MT CVt..rr!r<£ !WI?  TH€ 2rsr C€NT71KY.  
\  CREIIM... \  \  EJMN Cl)f?f?. \  

Beernuts 

THIN6S /0 EO WHILE WlfiTIN& IN UN£ AT THt IJtNINCr HltLL it I ­


-


--·------------~~~-..._----,--~--·-----­
r 
! 
\ 
; 

Sports 
Monday, September 7, 1987
page 16 

ND blanks Drake, 2-0, under the 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer team notched its first victory at Krause Stadium as the Irish overwhelmed Drake, 2-0, Friday night. 
A crowd of over 2,000 looked on as the Irish exploded for two goals in the final 16 minutes to push their record on the young season to 2-0. 
Forward Randy Morris

llj•, 
scored his second goal of the season at the 74:06 mark on a spectacular play which showed just how well he and linemate Bruce "Tiger" McCourt work together. Morris one-touched it home after McCourt fed him with a beautiful pass. 

"(Irish forward) Danny Notre Dame forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt goes up for a header are Drake keeper Mike Jensen (right) and Irish mldflelder Joe Stebbins had the ball at mid­against Drake In a 2·0 Irish soccer victory Friday night. Looking on Sternberg (20). field," said Morris of the play. 
"He played it in the air, and goals and Morris in assists. "I was very pleased with the ball. Sternberg admitted to The second half started slow­when I saw it was going to "I think it is a combination crowd," said Irish head coach Grace that the ball was headed ly, much to Grace's dis­Tiger, I just knew he was going of things," said Morris, "like Dennis Grace. over the. end line, and the only pleasure. 
to kick it to me, I made the me being older, more confi­"They really got us pumped way to stop it was with his "Our players were playing at run." dent, and the other teams up." hands. He gave it a shot, but a slower pace in the second half 
McCourt fed Morris on the keying on Tiger more. They're In the first half the match the referee caught him. than the first when I thought left side with a perfectly-led putting two men on Tiger, quickly turned into a kick-and­The Bulldogs came back on we should have been shoving pass. But to get the goal, Mor­which leaves me open." run game as both teams moved transition and almost capi-down their throats," said ris had to rely on his "forward the ball quickly up and down talized on an Irish mistake. Grace. "I wanted to turn up the 
I \.1 
Midfielder Kurt Roemer
sense." the small field. Grace kept ro­Notre Dame's defense tried to pressure because they were
scored an insurnace goal at the
''The crowd started to cheer, tating his players in and out, push the ball back to keeper tired. We were tired also, but
83:00 mark off a corner kick. 
so I knew something good was using seven subs in the first Dan Lyons, but the pass was they were twice as tired."
Morris hit the corner hard to
happening," said Morris. "I half. too slow and Lyons had to fall The biggest switch Grace
midfielder Rolfe Behrje, who
knew that a good keeper would Meanwhile Drake kept the to the ground to block a Drake made on the field was to let
deflected it off his head to
be coming out to go after the pressure on the Irish, playing shot. freshman Mike Drury play
Roemer. It was a set play
ball in case I dribbled it, so I an aggressive style similar to Stopper Steve LaVigne had most of the second half at stop­
where Behrje has the task of
one-timed it to where I thought the one Loyola (Ill.) used to an excellent chance at the 35:00 per, allowing senior captain
deflecting the line shot in order
he wouldn't be." give Notre Dame trouble in a mark when he dribbled in alone Steve Lowney to move to his
to upset the defense.
The ball found the upper game last Tuesday. from the right side. The Drake more natural position of mid­right corner, giving Morris a The two goals help bring the The Irish appeared to have a defense forced him to a bad an-field. team-leading five points on the large crowd to life. The entire goal early in the first half when gle and keeper Mike Jensen "Mike Drury is turning into season. His goal-scoring and west stands were packed from midfielder Joe Sternberg made the save. Sternberg and a great sweeper," Grace said. McCourt's assists represent a end to end with students and scored from the right side. But McCourt then followed with op-"He is very composed back reversal of last season's roles, soccer fans from the South the goal was disallowed as the portunities, but both shots 
Bend community. see SOCCER, page 12
where McCourt led the team in referee whistled him for a hand sailed over the net. 
Volleyball Irish pick up third· 
splits pair ' 
Ryan is pleased
in Classic 

Freshman Jenny LedrickBy THERESA KELLY placed third for the Irish, 11th
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
overall, with a time of 20:04. 
Sports Writer 

Finishing third at a trian­Wendy Murray, Kathleen Leh­gular usually does not leave a man, Julia Merkel and LindaThe Notre Dame volleyball coach smiling, but Coach Dan Filar rounded out the top seventeam defeated Ball State but Ryan of the Irish women's for the Irish. 
dropped a match with Indiana cross-country team, who al­"I was particularly proud ofthis weekend to finish a disap­ways seems optimistic, was Jenny Ledrick," said Ryan.

pointing__ third place in the pleased with the results of "She promises to be a good run­Hoosier t:lassic. 

Friday's Purdue Triangular. ner for us. I can see that she's The Irish lost their first going to be an important part match of the season Friday The host Boilermakers won of this team." 
evening to the Hoosiers, 15-13, the event with 27 points, and Ryan said the team's hard13-15, 8-15, 11-15. Looking slug­Illinois State edged out the work is paying off thanks to agish and committing several Irish, 53-49, for second. Sally three-week stretch of intensehitting errors, Notre Dame won Smith of Purdue took the indi­training.

the first game of the night but vidual honors with a time of "We've been running double dropped the next three to enter 
18:55. 

workouts at 6:30 in the morning 
thelosers'bracketofthetourn­Junior Terry Kibelstis led the and 4 in the afternoon. Theyament. Irish with a time of 19:04, good usually run between 75 and 80Out of 161 attempts against for fourth place, and Teresa miles a week.
the Hoosiers, the Irish con­Rice finished fifth, just six "We have improved signifi­.. nected for only 36 successful seconds behir.d. 
cantly, but it has taken an in­~ills, while committing 22 er­credible amount of work. I"There was a lot of confusion rors. 
"They (Indiana) gave us all about the course," said Ryan. have some girls running a min­
-"Terry (Kibelstis) was run­ute to a minute and a half faster ­
kinds of opportunities," said 

Head Coach Art Lambert, "but ning second with 800 meters to than last year." we couldn't make them pay off. go, then a few runners went the The Irish are keying in on 
some important meets, such as 
,_ It seemed like we could drive wrong way. 
National Catholic Invita­a truck through the holes where "The Purdue runners were the tional, the North Star Confer­our outside hitters were hitting more familiar with the layout, ence Meet and the NCAA Dis­
the ball, but we kept putting the and they used it to their advan­ball into the net or hitting it tage. They placed five runners trict Meet. The team will 
right at Indiana." in the top 10, and that's how include other meets in its train­., ing plan . 
Junior Mary Kay Waller led they won it. 
"We're pointing to some
Notre Dame in the Indiana con­"Terry and Teresa are just test with 10 kills and 10 blocks. doing phenomenal for this point meets as big and working and 
in season,"

i The Irish regrouped on Sat-Maureen Shea (10) prepares to send the ball back over the net In the continued 
Ryan. "Their efforts have put

Irish volleyball action last week. Notre Dame finished In a dlsap·
'l them way ahead of last year." see IRISH, page 12
see REGROUP, page 12 pointing third place In the Hoosier Classic over the weekend.
j 
1 
( 
I 
The Observel'lGreg Kohs 








