
/ACCENT: Letters to a lonely God ~.~,;:~:today With high• 
in the mid 60s. A 20 percent 
IVIEWPOINT: Rethinking London ~~;~~~~!h~~der:~~-nightwith 
~----------~~~ 
j 



Duarte, Reagan ' speak of peace
·~··.,.-... "; 

Associated Press ment Duarte and four other 
~. \ ·.~;.,· area signed
presidents two ' ' WASHINGTON -President months ago.
_,

.~~~ Reagan welcomed Salvadoran "If peace is to prevail, so President Jose Napoleon must democracy," Reagan
-
said, adding that a successful
Duarte to the White House on 
Wednesday and they agreed outcome of the Aug. 7 accord there can be no lasting peace remains "far from certain." in Central America without Duarte, in a similar vein, democratic rule throughout the said Central Americans "still 
region. have a long way to go" in im­plementing the peace plan. 
Duarte, a University of Notre He added, "I am convinced Dame graduate in 1948, was of­that there cannot be peace in fered an enthusiastic official Central America without reception as he began a state freedom and democracy." visit and he showed his ap­Some administration offi­preciation for U.S. support by cials have been privately criti­kissing an American flag dis­cal of Duarte for signing the played on the White House peace agreement, contending South Lawn. that it does not address key
The Observer I Susy Hernandez

Legal investigations Mter a ceremony that fea­questions, such as Soviet­tured full military honors, Cuban military ties with 
Prospective law students Lisa Karpowicz and Jackie tatives were at Stepan Center Wednesday to answer Reagan said peace prospects Nicaragua's leftist govern-
Hengebaugh visit law school representatives at The questions and hand out information. for Central America have been 
Law School Caravan. Over 50 law school represen-enhanced because of the agree-see DUARTE, page 6 
Have a good break 
~ ~ 

..... 
~ r7 ----~ . .., 

This is the last issue of The Observer before the October Break. The Observer will resume publication on the day following the vacation, Tuesday, October 27. 
$26-million computer renovations proposed 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR eluded that the University task force have already been Schmitz maintains that "we "must change its posture funded and some even imple­are moving fast," with regard
News Staff 

toward computer-based tech­mented, said assistant provost to these renovations, but the 
Recent additions to the Notre nologies and services if it is to and chairman of the task force major obstacle still remaining Dame computing system are achieve its goal. ..of becom­Roger A. Schmitz. is to generate funds for some only minor indications of the ming a great university, excell­Some of the measures pres­of the bigger implementations. $26.6 million worth of sweeping ing in teaching and research." ently underway include: the es­The more costly of the renovations that have been pro­University president father tablishment of a university recommendations made by the 
posed for the next four years. Edward Malloy has shown his committee on computing, the task force to referbish the out­
The Task Force on Univer­concern for the matter by funding and development of dated university computing sity Computing, established by stating, that computing capa­new software for the adminis­system include: the installa­provost Timothy O'Meara to bility is "an integral part of a trative computing system, the tion of a full campus computing "conduct a comprehensive good university," and that,"it allocation of funds to link the network, the acquisition of a study of all aspects of comput­is imperative'that we upgrade university to the NSF super­state-of-the-art-mainframe ing at Notre Dame and to make our computer facilities." computing network, and the in­system for academic use, the recommendations for a univer­Various aspects of the 11 stallation of the UNLOC sity wide strategy," has con-recommendations made by the automated library system. see COMPUTER, page 4 
Beauchamp murder suspect arraigned 
Observer Staff Report Conviction on the murder home or car theft because of charges could be punishable by the life sentences mandated by 
The carnival worker accused mandatory life imprisonment the murder conviction, Sul­of strangling the parents of without parole. The sex charge livan said. Notre Dame Executive Vice is punishable by up to life im­Lopez was arraigned Sept. 14 President Father Edward prisonment, Ferndale Police in 77th District Court in Big Beauchamp pleaded not guilty Chief Patrick Sullivan said. Rapids, Mich. on two counts of Wednesday to murder and The day after the murder passing bad checks, a court sexual assault charges in a police circulated composite clerk said. Michigan District Court. drawings of a lone suspect, Conviction on each one of the 
Michael Root, 30, was for­Swiercz said. The suspect had felony counts is punishable by mally arraigned on two counts been seen driving away in the up to 14 years in prison, the of murder and one count of Beauchamp's 1983 Oldsmobile clerk said. sexual assault, prosecutors Cutlass. Lopez had allegedly cashed said. Police from three agencies two checks at a grocery store 
arrested Root and a female in Mecosta County, according No trial date was set. companion five days later at a to state police Lt. Tom Powers. Root may have been under cabin in rural Mecosta county. It was later determined that the influence of drugs at the Root and Nilda Lopez, 26, had the checks had been stolen time of the murder, been staying at a Detroit motel from a car near the Beau" prosecutors said. about a mile from the Beau­champ home about the time the 
Edward Beauchamp, 75, and champ's home while working couple was slain, he said. Marion Beauchamp, 74, were at the Michigan state fair, Sul­The store owner obtained the found strangled in the bedroom livan said. car's license number, and state of their Ferndale, Mich. home Police at the time also police determined that it was Sept. 8. recovered a car allegedly the stolen Beauchamp vehicle, 
The elderly couple's car had stolen from the Beauchamps Powers said. Body shop murder been stolen and the house had after they were slain. Root will Polices would not, however, 
Five men were found shot to death at a Pasco, Wash. body shop Tuesday 
been broken into through a win­probably not face charges provide details about how in­

dow Ferndale Police Lt. Joe stemming from either the vestigators tracked the night. Two men are suspected in the shooting. See page 4 for related Swiercz said. break-in to the Beauchamp suspects to the rural cabin. story. 

--~~------••-m______-,..,_ww--v 

page 2 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1987 


Personal ads, Hite report have no 'relation' to truth 


In Brief "STUPID"will not be printed on Russell Reynaga's license plate, because of objections by the Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles. Reynaga, with an IQ of 142, requested the license plate name as he had done before when he lived in New York and Texas and expected no objections. A computer scientist, Reynaga is an 11-year member of MENSA, an international organization whose members' IQs must register in the top 2 percent. The license plate may have humorous intentions, but Mike Kozlowski, executive assistant to the motor vehicles com­missioner, said it can be construed as a negative comment against the state agency or the driver who reads it. -Associated Press Of Interest Flu shots will be offered today by Student Health Services at LaFortune Student Center from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and in the North Dining Hall during lunch and dinner meal. The shot will be effective against influenza this win­ter. -The Observer More men are needed for senior reflection groups. Twice as many women as men have signed up. Senior men are invited to come to the Center for Social Concerns to sign up. -The Observer The Management Club will meet tonight at 6:30 in the Dillon HalT basement. The club is looking for students interested in serving on or being chairman of either the fund raising, advertising, social activities, trips, and speakers committees. Pizza and a movie will be offered to everyone. -The Observer A student chamber music recital will be held this afternoon at 1: 15 in 115 Crowley Hall of Music. Twelve students will perform various pieces of music from Bee­thoven, Brahms, and other composers. -The Observer "Renaissance Humanism: The Liberal Arts Meet Philosophy" will be the title of a lecture given by Professor Paul Oskar Kristeller from Columbia University. The talk will be on Monday, Oct. 26 at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. A reception will follow. -The Observer Human rights in the Philippines will be the topic of a talk by Robert Breunig, who spent 14 months in the Philippines with the Medical Ambassadors International. The talk will be given Friday, Oct. 16 at 12: 15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns coffee room. -The Observer Law School Forum willgiveprospectivelawstudents an opportunity to talk with representatives of more than 100 law schools. The Fourth Annual Law School Forum will be held in Chicago at the Palmer House and Towers, 17 East Monroe Street, from noon to 7 p.m. on Oct. 23 and 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Oct. 24. For more information, contact Law School Admission Council!Law School Admission Ser­vices at (215) 968-1120. -The Observer Students parked in D-1 who are not returning before the USC game should move their cars to green field or another student lot, according to Notre Dame Security. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor __ . ______ -------·Rob Luxem Accent Copy Editor ............. Lisa Young Design Assistant . . . . . . . Bernadette Shilts Accent Layout ................ Heather Hypes Typesetters.. ........................... Mike Buc Typist......... .. ................... Jen Colon ............................................. Paul Bubbs ............................................ Lynn Ewing News Editor ....................... Scott Bearby Ad design ......................... Dave Culligan ............................................ Liz Panzica ............................................Jeff Stalmac Copy Editor.. .................... __ _ ND Day Editor .. .. .... Kathy McKee Sports Copy Editor.. .............. Pete Skiko SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Rader .................._......_.. _.......... Rick Rietbrock Photographer... .. ......... Suzy Hernandez Viewpoint Layout .... Dee Dee Wroblenski Tille Olllen« (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. Tille Oblen« is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2' per semester) by writina Tile Olllen«, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tille Olllener is a member of Tille .u.octated Praa. All reproduction riahts are reserved.  

"Personals are people's sexual frustrations 
in print," a friend said the other day. 
She's right, you know. But only partly so. 
The Observer's personals section has increas­
ingly become a place for readers to vent their 
frustrations about male-female relationships. 
The personals started last month with "The 
He-Man Woman Haters Club," which gave Ob­
server readers the top 10 reasons for joining 
their ''organization,'' the top reason being ''You 
are allowed to say, 'Get out of my way before 
I dominate you.' " 

Then came the ads from the "Females 
Against Guys" and the "She-Ra Man Haters 
Club." Reasons to join those groups included 
"(Guys') bottom half is their only redeeming 
quality," and "(Men's) tolerance for alcohol is 
inferior (like everything else)." 
Now, all these ads were innocent enough. There was some hostility (and perhaps some truth) in them. And they showed a few people's frustration about relationships. 
But it was all in good fun. 

Then came this week's "Susie vs. Mike" ads. 
"To my Alumni SYR date, Mike, who brought 
me to his room & indirectly told me to put out 
or get out, I'm glad I got out! . . . I may have 
been the first but definitely not the last to turn 
you down. -Your thoroughly disgusted date 
from Regina. P.S. Girls Beware!" 
To which came the reply in today's personals, 
"Susie from Regina... I should have brought 
a bucket of oates to the room instead of cham­
pagne. . . I'll worry about being blackballed as 
soon as you lose a few, honey! -Mike." 
Things are really deteriorating. 
To make matters worse, these personals coin­
cide with Time magazine's cover story about 
Shere Hite's new book, "Women and Love, a 
Cultural Revolution in Progress" (Knopf; 
$24.95). 

The latest Hite report concerns American wo­men and their love relationships. According to Time, Hite has concluded that women are fed up with men. 
Her book, for example, found that 95 percent of the women studied reported forms of "emo­tional and psychological harassment" from the men they love; 98 percent said that they want to make "basic changes" in their love relation­ships; and only 18 percent said their relation­ship comes first in their lives. 
Hite's book also found that 70 percent of the women married five years or more said they are having extramarital affairs; and 87 percent of the married women said they have their "deepest emotional relationship" with a female friend. 
positive. 

, . ..-.c~~~.._.._..~,_...-1
I I
looking for 10 
GA'S Lots (8)
! Tickets to NO I USC Game 
Need USC GA'S

i contact i 
CaH MIKE LANIGAN

'I Mike Kelly (312)565-5959 J From 9·5, M·F ! 
(800) 621-2516 
(312) 943-7846 after 5

L.._.._._...._.._..._.._~-1 

This is a pretty grim picture of modern male­female relationships. 
Nationally, then, women are extremely dis­satisfied with their love relationships, accor­ding to Hite's report. And here on campus, men and women are brutally insulting each other. Is there any hope for relationships? 
Of course there is. Things aren't nearly as bad as they seem. 
Hite's book, first of all, is based on an un­scientific survey, as the author herself ad­mitted. Hite obtained her data by mailing out a questionnaire listing 127 essay questions. 
Now, who the heck would complete and mail back such a questionnaire? Only the very dis­gruntled--those who want to complain. Indeed, of the 100,000 questionnaires mailed out, only 4,500 were returned. 
"Five percent could be any oddballs," Time quoted a research scientist as saying. "We get pretty nervous if respondents in our own sur­veys go under 70 percent." 
And the negative Observer personals? They, too, reflect the feelings of the very disgruntled. The dissatisfied are willing to shell out their hard-earned money to voice their complaints. The satisfied, meanwhile, have no need or desir~ to voice their contentment. Hence, the negative personals. 
It's not surprising, then, that Hite's report and some of the personals are so negative about relationships. 
Indeed, it would be surprising if they were 
Must have 20 USC GA'S. You will be greatly rewarded... 
$$$ 

Call Pete at 3498 Immediately. 
308 S. Byrkit Mishawaka, IN 46544 256·2050 
Notre Dam&St. Mary's Students Now thru April 30th Complete Membership only $149.00 
Hours Mon·Fri 6:00 AM · 9:00 PM Sat 8:00 AM • 3:00 PM Sun 12:00 · 5:00 PM 
!!I :.:::.... :::.:::::~:.:.. ::::::!~~::~~ ..!:i::~...!~.~~~•t•l. 

-~--­
-----------------~ ~-~-~ -------~---------~------------""1 
"J;hursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer page 3 
SUDDENL'i, TIME Slt'X:i> 5nU. ,BI~ FEll. SILENT. CD-EDS QUIVE.m) IN ~TICI~TION.S\EI...lU.J--~E ZEI-1\T~ CCMP\lTER NfRD--HAD5TEA'ED CfF Tlif. BUS... 



30TH 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

Tony Pajakowski prepares to sink the eight ball at students take a 'break' before break. October break the pool room in LaFortune Student Center where begins with the end of classes on Friday. 

Labor Secretary added to Dole bid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Labor Sec­retary William Brock will an­nounce Thursday he is resign­ing from President Reagan's Cabinet to head Sen. Robert Dole's Republican presidential campaign, Dole's campaign staff said Wednesday. 
"We do not know the effec­tive date," said Tim Archer, a spokesman for Dole's cam­paign. "But we are looking for­ward to have him start in time for the senator's announce­ment on Nov. 9." 
Archer said Brock would specify the timetable at news conferences at the Labor De­partment at 10:30 a.m. and in Dole's office in the Capitol at noon formally announcing his resignation and his appoint­ment to chair Dole's campaign. 
At the Labor Department, spokeswoman Chriss Winston would say only, "there will be a major announcement" by Brock Thursday morning. But officials in Dole's campaign and close associates of Brock had confirmed earlier that he 



s E 
Here's Sheldon the Computer Nerd ... the hottest new hunk on your campus! Why is everyone crazy about this new wave 
nebbish? Simple! He's Sheldon-the Computer Nerd who knows all about Zenith Data Systems. That makes him one hip dude! 
'Cause Zenith Data Systems Personal Com­puters take you all the way from college to 

Register to Win A FREE 

EaZyPC! 
Visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today: 
OPENHOUSE 

October 30th

data 

10:00 a.m. -7:00p.m.systems Computing Center Demonstration 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON" Contact: Lisa Burg 239-5153 Ask about how you can qualify for easy monthly payments with a Zenith Data Systems Credit Card! 

Conuct(s) ltstrd above by st~nls, Without notM:e. 

career. And they get you there at great stu­dent prices! 
Now, discover Sheldon's secret to Compu­ter Nerd success with this special offer from your Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. Sheldon gives it a big thumbs up! Here's the Sheldon Special! 
was leaving the Cabinet to join 
the campaign. 

Dole, of Kansas, the Senate 
minority leader, has been ac­
tively campaign for the 
presidency and is expected to 
formally declare his candidacy 
Nov. 9. 

Brock would be the second Reagan Cabinet member to resign and work on behalf of Dole. Former Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole, the Senator's wife, recently quit to devote full time to his cam­paign. 
Brock, a former congress­man and senator from Tennes­see, was chairman of the Re­publican National Committee in 1977-81. He would bring a reputation as an organizer to Dole's campaign. The Senator has been running behind Vice President George Bush in most polls thus far. 
Dole, Bush and Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., approached Brock in recent weeks about working for them, according to close associates of Brock. 
Tax stance by Bush softened 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Vice President George Bush softened on Wed­nesday his two-day-old cam­paign pledge not to raise taxes, even as he proposed cutting by half the tax rate that individ­uals pay on capital gains. 
In a speech describing "the 
American solution" to increas­
ing international competition, 
Bush said, "we should cut the 
capital gains tax to 15 percent 
on investments held for at least 
a year." 
As for a general tax increase, 
Bush declared Monday in his 
speech announcing his can­
didacy for the 1988 Republican 
presidential nomination, "I am 
not going to raise your taxes. 
Period." 
But in an interview scarcely 
48 hours later on Cable News 
Network, he said he could not 
rule out a tax hike. 
"What I have said is if I were 
convinced that all the spending 
that could possibly be con­
strained or cut had taken place, 
then and only then would I con­
sider a tax increase," he said. 
Bush contended his position 
on a last-resort tax increase 
was identical to President 
Reagan's. 
"I've always said that, same 
as Ronald Reagan. Anyone 
thinks he's soft on raising 
taxes, they're crazy," he said 
in the CNN interview. 
The proposal to cut the tax 
rate on capital gains from 28 
percent to 15 percent drew a 
loud ovation from Bush's busi­
ness audience. 
"Today, we're in a global economic battle with Japan, Europe and the emerging na­tions," he told a luncheon meeting of the Buckhead Busi­ness Association and Midtown Business Association here. 
"Our future depends on our 
ability to compete. To do that, 
we need new technologies, new 
businesses and new jobs," he 
said. 


page 4 
The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1987 


Shooting leaves five dead in body shop massacre 

Computer 
continued from page 1 
establishment of a number of 
computer equipt classrooms 
with projector output, and the 
allocation of special funds to 
specific colleges and depart­
ments for particular needs. 
In addition, the task force 
recommends that the Univer­sity begin to implement these recommendations as soon as possible and evaluate them regularly as they represent an attempt to "catch up" to rapidly moving technology. 
While the financial problems posed by implementation of a new stystem are large Schmitz is "optimistic about it because everyone seems to support the idea." 
How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school oftheir choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 

1717 [. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IINI 46£.37 Phone 219/272-4135 
~ 
!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DON'T COMPETE Willi A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 


SALOON & DANCING 
50's & 60's MUSIC 3:30PM-2:00AM 
GO IRISH! 
US 33 at Stateline Niles, Ml (616) 684-1904 

FREE BUFFET 5·9 PM 7DAYS AWEEK 
Associated Press 
PASCO, Wash. -The lone sur­vivor of an auto body shop mas­sacre that left five men dead rested under guard Wednes­day, while police searched for two gunmen who had traded "dirty looks" with their vic­tims in the past. 
Police speculated that drug dealing may have sparked the shootings, but stressed they had no firm motive. Drugs, es­pecially cocaine, have long been a problem in this south­central Washington town of 19,000 residents, police Sgt. Andy Anderson said. 
The survivor, Jesse Rocio of Pasco, was kept under guard at a hospital while being treated for a minor wound, then was transferred to jail pending a court hearing Thursday on whether he will be held as a material witness, Anderson said. 
Anderson said police are con­
cerned about possible retribu­
tion by suspects. 
Rocio will be held "basically 
to cover us, to give us time to determine if there is a possibil­ity that he's gonna leave and to determine if there's a risk to his safety," said Anderson. 

Rocio said in a telephone in­terview from his hospital bed that he could think of no motive for the shootings Tuesday eve­ning in Medina's Body Shop on Pasco's industrial east side, where four of the victims were employed. 
"I've seen them (the gun­men) before on the street," Rocio said. "One time we had a general argument, but we didn't have a real problem with them." 
He said he and the other vic­tims, all Hispanics, had ex­changed "dirty looks" with the gunmen in the past, but would not elaborate. 
No roadblocks were set up Wednesday, but a bulletin was issued to law-enforcement agencies throughout the region, and police said infor­
mants  were  helping  in  the  
search.  
Early Wednesday,  officers  

fired tear gas into a Pasco apartment where a brother of one suspect lives, after a vehi­cle believed to be the getaway car was found parked outside, Police Chief Don Francis said. No one was inside the apart­ment, however. 
Rocio said the gunmen en­tered the shop, looked around, then returned with the weapons and started shooting. 
"We weren't expecting that 
at all," Rocio said. Police said 
the assailants entered the front 
door, which leads into a small 
office, and then through an­
other door into the body shop. 
Rocio, 20, of Pacso, said he was wounded in the side by a ricocheting bullet when he dove under a car for cover. 
"When they started shooting I just jumped underneath the car and I stay still," Rocio said, adding that the gunmen left without checking .to see if anyone was still alive. 
Rocio then drove to the police station for help. He was listed in stable condition at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital. 
Francis said there were no signs of a struggle and the bodies were sprawled on the floor on the side of a car away from the doorway. 
© 1987 The Olive Gorden Restaurants. 


At The Olive Garden, our staff is specially trained to get you in and out inside of a half hour. And in such a way that lunch hour doesn't seem like rush hour. 
There's quite a selection of Italian courses. Freshly made pastas, delicious sandwiches. Or choose our popular soup, salad, and breadstick luncheon, 
all you can eat of all of them for a very modest price. So spend your next lunch hour taking a course or two in Italian with us. 
-tk 
a~~~ 
11-IE BEST OF ITALY GROWS IN ThE GARDEN. 
• 6410 Grape Road, Mishawaka 
Thursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer page 5 
College Briefs 
Drug tests are unconstitutional, says a superior court judge, ruling in favor of two University of Washington students who challenged the school's plan to test athletes for drugs. The judge also issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting the NCAA from taking action against the UW. The NCAA, in turn, has petitioned that the case be heard in federal court.-The National On-Campus Report 
Fish in a fountain: Student Government at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the school that tried to annex Notre Dame, released 500 goldfish into a campus fountain in an attempt to gain publicity for student government. The first 500 students to show up at the fountain received a goldfish in a plastic bag. Student Government at UWM plans a "biggest fish" contest in the spring.­The National On-Campus Report 
Emporia State University (Kansas) football coach Larry Kramer plans to sit in a campus bell tower until 1500 season tickets are sold. The bell tower, named Silent Joe because it's rung after every victory, has been a little noisier since Kramer took over as coach. He's led the Hornets to winning seasons the past two years; before Kramer came, the school hadn't had a winning team in 11 years.­The National On-Campus Report 
Homosexual activity in the dormitory was the reason for an unusual physical plant directive at Indiana University: remove every other stall door in the men's bathrooms. Mter receiving com­plaints from custodians fearing AIDS exposure, the plant director contacted campus police, who rec­ommended the door removal. -The National On­Campus Report 
Serious students at the Southern College of the Seventh-Day Adventists will get a tuition break. Students carrying 12 to 16 credits will pay $5,500, but those who challenge themselves and take more than 16 credits will pay 284 dollars less than other students. The administration hopes this will encour­age serious studies. -The National On-Campus Report 
The missing bust of a former University of Oklahoma dean was recently found in the men's room of an OU dormitory --20 years after it was stolen. Although police did not recognize the bust, they contacted the sculptor (who had signed the bust), and he identified it as the one he sculpted in 1936. It stood in a dormitory hallway until it was taken by college pranksters. No word yet on where its travels took it.-The National On-Campus Report 
1n Indiana
Sci-fi buffs land • 

Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Those pesky creatures from outer space: if they're not attacking Earth directly, they're in­filtrating the populace to put covers on all the world's toasters. 
As editor of the science fic­tion magazine Amazing Stories, Patrick Price said he has seen about every weird story idea imaginable. 
"I think the most bizarre idea that was generated was one about the toaster cover con­spiracy," said Price, a guest at this weekend's convention of the Evansville Science Fiction Association. 
"Apparently there was a group of aliens that had come to Earth and assumed human form," he said, outlining a short story the magazine rejected. "But for some reason they had this fetish to cover toasters, and that's why toaster covers were invented. 
"As it turns out, the toasters 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez

Dog gone resembled the aliens' genitals, and the premise of the writer 
Juniors wait in line to have their pictures taken for the Dog Book. Wed-was that people who had nesday was the final day that Junior Dog Book pictures could be taken. toaster covers were aliens." 
-· 

Price will offer advice to new Trends have come and gone writers during a workshop at in science fiction as far back the convention, which is being as Jules Verne and his tales of called ConTact-5 and runs from submarines and space ships. Friday to Sunday at the "I think the most talked­Ramada Inn on the city's north about trend, and I think it's on side. the way out, is the cyberpunk 
Price called science fiction, movement," said Price. "The "one of the few markets where cyber being the computerized writers can create a name for generation and the punk part themselves, get exposure." referring to adolescent rebel­
"I have a friend who told me, lion." 'Pat, I write mainstream fic­tion,' and he had a novella of Such stories typically feature 15,000 words. But I told him younger characters in a post­there's no way, because there nuclear war age. isn't a market for mainstream A good writer realizes that a short fiction if you don't have story is one-third factual, one­a name." third from the experience of the 
The magazine is based in storyteller and one-third fie­Lake Geneva, Wis., and though tion, Price said. it licensed its name to the tele-"Unfortunately, people think v1s10n series "Amazing that anybody can write," he Stories," the two are not other-said. "We all have to learn it, wise related. so anybody can put the words 
The publication receives on paper. But that's the far­about 250 manuscripts each thest thing from the truth. I week, but buys only six to eight don't care how innovative your each month. About 20 percent characters are, how good your of the submissions are from grammar, if you can't tell a writers who have sold material story, you can't tell a story.'' before. The other 80 percent is "The best writers have that from new writers and goes into true storytelling capacity," he the associate editors' "slush said. "You have the sense that pile," where the offerings are they would be just as good if often dispatched quickly for they were sitting around a 
number of reasons. campfire."
a;;;iiililili;iiii;;-, 
and Tony le\Nis have come up \Nith a modern 

classic-their ne\N album, "Bangin'"! The Outfield. Ready to rock the \NOrld all 
Ten melodic and \Nell-crafted gems that over again. 
"Bangin:" Featuring "Bangin' On My Heart;' "No Surrender" and "Since You've Been Gone:' IMI On Columbia Records, Cassettes and Compact Discs. ~ 
Produced by William Wittman for Weedy Wet Productions. ''Columbia.''~ are trademarka of CBS Inc. Cl1987 CBS Inc. 
See the Outfield live at Morris Civic in South Bend October 18th TRACKS RECORDS 1631 EDISON RD 
Thursday, October 15, 1987
page 6 The Observer 
Columbia corporate raider prize
scraps $100,000 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Business school officials nationwide praised Columbia University Wednesday for voiding a $100,000 student prize offered by corporate takeover strategist and part-time teacher, Asher Edelman. 
The decision made Tuesday by Columbia Business School Dean John Burton to scrap the prize, offered to anyone in Edelman's class who could find him a good company to buy, was sharply disputed by Edel­man and some members of the class, titled "Corporate Raiding : the Art of War." 
The conflict raised questions about what subjects should be taught in U.S. business schools and whether students who en­ter the highly competitive in­stitutions have become in­fatuated with greed at the expense of other values. 
"Bravo for Dean Burton, that's all I can say," said Rich­ard West, dean of New York University's graduate business school. "That offer violates all of the normal canons of the academy. It's simply inconsis­tent with all the thing$ that academics should hold sacred about the classroom." 
West also said he was ap­palled at what he called the ap­parent inability of Edelman and some of the students to un­derstand why the $100,000 prize was improper. He and other deans said they wouldn't have allowed it either. 
"It's crucial that schools do their best to teach students not to think about just making money," West said. "It may be that some students in our schools may want to sell their souls to the devil. But we should not have the devil standing at the front of the classroom." 

Many business schools, in­cluding Columbia and NYU, of­fer students competitive grants of up to $5,000 for devising busi­ness startup plans that become successful. It is usually under­stood, however, that the win­ners will repay the money into a school fund that can be used to award others. 
Edelman was not in his office Wednesday to answer ques­tions about the Columbia class. But in an interview with Cable News Network, Edelman said the prize would ensure a stu­dent was compensated if he used one of their ideas. 
"I offered it because I think it's extremely important for these kids to learn entrepreneurship and think of themselves as owners of com­panies, and this was a step, al­most a shocking step, toward bringing them into the real business world, as opposed to strictly the academic side of the business world," Edelman said. 
"I think Edelman made a category mistake. He was in­troducing into the academic setting a commercial transaction," said Lawrence Lavengood. 
Toddler tumbles 20 feet down well, rescue begun 
Associated Press 
MIDLAND, Texas-A toddler tumbled more than 20 feet Wed­nesday into an abandoned well, and rescue workers frantically started digging a second shaft to reach the crying child. 
Workers estimated it would be late Wednesday night before they could get to 18-month-old Jessica McClure. 
At 7:30p.m., about 10 hours after she fell in the well, workers said about two feet of solid rock still separated them from the child. They estimated it would take three more hours of digging with a small jack­hammer to reach her. 
Rescuers said they could still hear the girl crying. Flood­lights were set up and a light was dropped into the well to warm it up. 
"It is solid rock right now. It is pretty slow-going," paramedic Dave Felice told the Midland Reporter-Telegram. The girl was getting adequate oxygen and was believed to be lying on her back with her knees drawn up in a relatively comfortable position, he said. 
The well, in the back yard of a private day-care center operated by Jessica's mother, is only inches wide in the spot 

Science Nobel winners named 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Two Americans shared the Nobel Prize in chemistry with a French researcher Wednes­day, and a West German and a Swiss scientist won the prize in physics for a breakthrough in superconductors that could lead to faster computers and speedier trains. 
The discoveries that led to both prizes came by accident when the scientists were looking for something else, said 
members of the Royal Swedish 
Academy of Sciences, which chose the winners. Each Nobel carries a cash prize of about $340,000, which 
0 
continued from page 1 
ment. 
But there was no hint of any discepencies between the two countries in a day-long series of activities that, in addition to the welcoming ceremony, also included an elaborate luncheon for Duarte hosted by Secretary of State George Shultz and a White House dinner Wednes­day night. 
Reagan was effusive in his 
praise for Duarte, a close ally 
whose country has received 
hundreds of millions of dollars 
in U.S. economic and military 
aid over the past six years. 
"El Salvador, under Presi­
dent Duarte's leadership, has 
proven wrong the cynics, pes­
simists and detractors of 
democracy," he said. 
"Under the most trying of 

circumstances with your 
steady hand at the helm, Pres­
ident Duarte, democratic con­
ventions and ideals have been 
transformed into institutions, 
laws and practices." 
At the conclusion of his 

remarks, Duarte surprised the 
gathering of several hundred 
by descending from the podium 
and walking 50 yards to a mil­
itary honor guard, where he 
kissed the American flag. 
Latin American leaders gen­

erally avoid such pro­
American displays and try in-is divided if more than one laureate is named for each prize. 
Chemists Donald Cram of the University of California at Los Angeles; Charles Pedersen, retired from the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology; and Jean-Marie Lehn of the Universite Louis Pasteur in Strasbourg, France, won the chemistry prize. 
They developed molecules that can link up with particular other molecules, a principle now used in medical testing. Their work could lead to an 
endless supply of energy by ex­tracting hydrogen from water, said academy member Bo Malmstrom. It could also give insight into crucial biological reactions. 
West German Georg Bednorz and Swiss K. Alex Mueller won the physics prize for develop­ing ceramic material that can act as a superconductor at a higher temperature than before. 
"This was the start of an av­alanche. Hundreds of laborato­ries all over the world were where the child fell in. It widens farther down, and then narrows to a 6-inch opening below the spot where the child came to rest. 

Rescue workers dropped a special microphone into the shaft to communicate with the girl. At one time, the child's mother, Reba McClure, talked to her daughter on the microp­hone. 
A camera belonging to the 
.. 

city water department was lowered into the well and the child's face was visible on the screen for a short time. 
Workmen drilled 28 feet deep with the parallel shaft and then began working up toward the child, who was believed to be about 22 feet down. They took that approach so that if there were a cave-in, debris would fall toward the rescuers in­stead of toward the child. 
)~==~~·~..:~-~~~~ 
~ lOOfT ~CGUIRt' ~ ~· filLinG~ Tftnon ·~ 
THURSDAY SPECIAL 
BUD LITE 16 OZ. CANS $1.30 
FRI: SAT: 
GIN & TONIC 85 ENTS IMPORTS $1.30 
soon at work with materials I --------­similar to those of Bednorz and I Sj2QAUCKLAND ·COPENHAGEN· TOKYO· LONDON Mueller," said the prize com-
I X 
mittee's statement. ~ Superconductors conduct o ­electricity without losing cur-~ ~ rent to resistance. Their appli-~ 
NOWI 
cation has been limited be-o cause they must be chilled well I :c below minus 400 degrees Fah-:c • renheit. U:: 
--, 
S2Q" I 
~ I 
~ 

(/) I 
~ 
o 

~ I 
-< 
~ 


-~-U~-a~r~t~e~~~~~-s-~-a-d~~t-o~~m-u_t_e~-t-h_e_ir~~T-h~~~-g~~~t~.-g~dl ~Sp~eisra~dlyselling-o~forlowC~idmasove~eas ~I 
e peace a reemen 'Sl ne ~ airfares. BOOK NOW, pay by Nov. 15 and we'll give ~ 
identification with U.S. in Guatemala on Aug. 7, I 0 $ l> I 
policies, and Duarte himself obligates all Central American :c you 20 off your fare with this coupon. Call today for ;.... conceded that the action was a nations where insurgents oper-Greservations! Not valid with other promotions. t) "break from protocol." Many ate to arrange a cease fire by I ~ aWSTUDENT 0 I 
in the crowd, including Nov. 7 and to undertake demo-V> TRAVEL (/)
525 9227

Reagan, applauded the ges-cratic. reform by the same t..:S2Q (3l2) -NETWORK $2~ 
_._ _______ _
ture. deadlme. 



Viewpoint 
page 7
Thursday, October 15, 1987 
-

Sheltered program can be a detriment 
P.O. Box Q 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
FttRCELY COMPf:TITtvt, G«JRVC 
8l/$HANOHISeVIl. TIQ/N SKIPPY HAO HAOA Fit/UING (J(ff{}()RING 7H£/R PREP 50100/. YI3.4R5... 
~ our/
-"'OOT! 
'==~========~~~ 
Quote of the Day 
"Children aren't happy with nothing to ignore, and that's 
what  parents  were  created  
for."  
Ogden Nash  
1902-1971  

Attaining success a subjective task 
Dear Editor: 
In the October 6 Observer, Scott Bearby advised us to sQt goals in order to achieve success. While his advice seems very practical, he makes several false assumptions about success. 
First, he assumes that we can easily define "success" for ourselves. Accor­ding to him, defining "success" is our first step; then, we can set our goals, plan our path, and head directly to the completion of our goals and the achievement of our success. Doesn't he realize that some people go through their whole lives without ever finding what they really wanted? Defining "success" is half the battle, and yet, Mr. Bearby wants us to do that "right now at the dining hall." 
I believe that the success about which Mr. Bearby wrote is financial and career success. Although he admits that financial success is "not the only goal one can set by any means," I am not convinced that he believes that statement because all of his examples involved financial success. But even if I misjudged Mr. Bear by, he also as­sumes that success can only be achieved with a "clearly marked path." He makes the following anal­ogy: "Picture trying to reach a destina­tion with no road signs or maps to guide you; the same is true of the path to success. Without a clearly marked path to follow, the destination may never be reached." 
I shall respond with a story. Over the summer, I wanted to get to a friend's house, but I was heading there from work and did not know the direct path from work to his house. I did not want to go home first and then take the route to his house that I knew, because it was such a roundabout way of getting there. So, without a positive idea of where I was going, I exited the interstate and headed south on the backroads. I did not know these roads, but I knew that south was the right direction, and I trusted that I would eventually find a road that I knew. True, when I went over the stretch of gravel road, I had second thoughts, but I did reach familiar roads and arrived at my friend's house soon afterward. 
What I hope to show with this story is that we do not always need a "clearly marked path" to achieve a goal. With only a general direction, I reached my friend's house. Did I save any time by choosing the unplanned path instead of the sure path? No, but the unplanned path was more fun. 
Mr. Bearby finally assumes that we all want success. Sure, I should like to be financially successful, but only be­cause right now I think I should be hap­pier if I were financially successful than if I were poor and jobless. But I would rather be poor and happy than rich and miserable. If success ever in­volves stepping over people, un­bearable levels of stress and pressure, or going against my principles, I doubt that I should still wish to be successful. 

I do not deny that goal-setting and the whole problem-solving approach is effective; if it were not important, cognitive psychologists would not have written the many books on the subject. But I do not think that success can be 
QUESTION~ 
WHIC..H PERSON IS A RE5PQN51BLE ~c;.t.~VS MEMBER? 
treated like a problem: the definition of "success" and the path to success are not easily defined. 
Perhaps I am idealistic and imma­ture; perhaps I shall grow up eventu­ally and determine that my present views are wrong. But I hope I am right, because the practical life that Mr. Bearby depicted seemed very boring. 
Gregory Volan Off-Campus 
In and around the area in which we live there are several other groups of American students also studying in London. Ball State is across the street. The University of Maryland group is a block away and so is Colgate. Apparent­ly, some 15,000 American students go to London each year to study. 
Robert Hennig 
guest column 

This kind of gets you wondering about the way the various other programs are structured. Very few schools have the resources Notre Dame's program has. 
In the Notre Dame London Program, housing and classrooms are provided 
as are many group tours and social op­portunities. But is this the way it really should be? 
I have a friend who is also studying this Fall in England. But she's studying at Oxford. No, not in a program set up by her school in Oxford, England. Ox­ford University. 
True her classes only will be about half British with other Americans fil­ling the rest of the space. And her col­lege has other students going to Oxford as well. But compared to Notre Dame, she's totally on her own. 
You can say the experience of just being in London is enough for you to get a feel for it. And the majority of the professors in the Notre Dame program are British. But it's just not the same. 

London Program students are really isolated from the mainstream British university experience. As a result, Notre Dame students become closer friends with the other Notre Dame stu­dents, but rarely meet any British stu­dents, or even too many other Ameri­can students. 
Alas, if you truly desire to meet some British students you can go the Univer­sity of London and just sort of introduce yourself. But it all does seem sort of a waste. You can spend a semester in London and really not know any Lon­doners, nor anything about the British method of education. 
Such a sheltered educational environ­ment is supportive, but misses the en­tire British educational experience. In a way, we are doing it the easy way and I feel strangely cheated. 
For better or worse, Notre Dame will probably never move toward a more open program. That would require loosening the reigns. Losing some con­trol. 
Notre Dame just doesn't do that. It's in Du Lac, something about in loco parentis. 
This is not to say that I am not ap­preciating the time I am spending in London with the program. On the con­trary, I am really enjoying it. 
I'm just wondering whether it couldn't be something more. Robert Hennig is a junior studying in London this semester. 
General Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-In-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. Brian Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ........... Davld Culligan News Editor .................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Edltor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindeie possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll Is available to all rn'lmbers of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. Founded November3, 1968 

Acce_nt
page 8 Thursday, October 15, 1987 
A party for the beautiful and the damned 
America is living through the silly season. In a country which is more than halfway to abolishing sin as though it were an enemy objective in the war on poverty, the presidential candidates are dropping out one after another, self­destructing from their personal sins. I hate the word "hypocriti­cal" because it is used so un­critically as a cheap attack. But our land has become hypocriti­cal, straining at gnats, swallow­ing camels whole. Early in this century, my grandfather's cousin, called to become a preacher, had to travel to Maine from California, where he had fled after wronging an innocent girl back home. He had to approach her, his hat in his hand, to ask her forgive­ness, before he could be or­dained. 
Methodists, long ago, had this kind of discipline to im­pose on a born-again Christian newly washed and cleansed by the blood of the Lamb, wanting to become a shepherd of the church. ~re-marital sex was not an unforgivable sin in a denomination which recognized that black sheep were saved by faith, and not by works; and experience proved that the first baby could come anytime, though after that, it took nine months. Sin used to be a mat­ter the church would handle in the privacy of its own com­munion. Now candidates are 
judged publicly by phonies 
wanting to cut public figures 
down to size. 
"Forgiveness is a form of liberation." 
The Catholic Church didn't invent sin; yet it has an inter­esting history of dealing with sinners. It grew up in the time of the Roman Empire, where the converts were pagans in a society as hedonistic as our own. Christian asceticism couldn't have been easy for sensualists growing up with the idea that anything goes, and temple prostitution could be a part of your religion. Were the Romans like wandering sheiks who keep harems crowded with wives, or stables stocked with concubines? Certainly, monogamy was not their ideal, and women were dishonored as playmates. Isn't marriage in Christ a more worthy institu­tion? But even after marriage was observed as a sacrament, human beings continued to struggle against the flesh, and you have a dozen doctrines ­like Platonism, Jansenism, Pelagianism, Calvinism -trying to explain the convoluted na­ture of man whose instincts 
Bill Watterson 

need to be under the control of the God-life in him. Auricular confession, which became more and more top-heavy with casuistry, was the ordinary way in which he relieved his con­science. 
After 1500 years, the children of God are still a holy mystery imaged in rebellious flesh; they try to discipline their members according to the desires of the heart, waiting to find peace in the vision of Love, seen face to face. In a decade where the flesh has become king and the Almighty keeps quiet, the Church still tries to keep calling the shots like a referee, in a contest of conscience equaliz­ing the tension between pas­sion and the promised beatitude, appetites and the ectasy to come, the selfishness of the body and the eternal salvation of the soul. 
The modern Church is tempted like Christ in the wil­derness: turn these stones into bread; that is, eat the bread that feeds the body, but not the soul. Throw yourself from the parapet of the Temple, relying on God to bear thee up: that is, trust the flesh to bring you to heaven. Worship the prince of darkness, which means that you should stop regarding the world, the flesh and the devil as your spiritual enemies. If the language is abstract and metaphysical, re­member that our warfare is with the principalities and powers of the air. Our weapon is every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, remaining invisible. 
A modern Catholic looks at his old-fashioned Church. "Why doesn't the Church show more sympathy for the downtrodden minorities?" The Church that I know is the home of the under­dog; it receives him with love, not as Jew or Gentile, slave or freeman, but as a redeemed sinner to whom the Lord speaks: "Come in, my dear. I have been waiting for you." 
The modern Catholic says: "That can't be right. otherwise, the gays would feel it. Un­churched couples, living to­gether without benefit of clergy, wouldn't have the door slammed in their faces when they ask for marriage. Divorced Catholics who later re-marry wouldn't be denied the sacra­ments. Women wanting abor­tions wouldn't be threatened with excommunication." 
I tell the modern catholic: "The priests I know best are in the business of forgiveness. They don't discriminate against gays. They help fallen-aways wanting a church wedding. They do what they can for divorced Catholics who feel that they are not living in a state of grace." 
Forgiveness is a form of liberation. What more can a priest do for a sinner than offer him deliverance from the mys­tery of iniquity? Sin is much more than a legal fiction, if it involves a decision that darkens the intellect and weakens the will. Liberation would encourage a woman wanting to have an abortion: "Go ahead. You have a right to that choice." Unless she's a zombie, she'll have a bad con­science later. A priest can help her recover from a bad con­science. He can't tell her beforehand she should have no regrets. 
The modern Catholic asks: "what is the Church doing for the gays?" The Church can cry with them over the cross they bear. The Church can forgive them seventy times seven. The Church can promise that Jesus loves them; the Church has to be able to promise them that Jesus loves them very much, or what's a church for? The Church can assure them that gay is good, but not always, because gay is often self­destructive, just as straight stops being good when it is self-destructive. Sin comes in two varieties: heterosexual and homosexual. Otherwise you'd be saying that gays can do anything, but straight people have rules to keep. 
"Perhaps gays in the closet are better off staying there, out of danger." 
The modern Catholic asks: "What has the Church done lately for gays' rights?" Gay rights to do what? To live free of the closet, and free of har­assment? Do you liberate a gay when you encourage him to come out of the closet? Per­haps gays in the closet are bet­ter off staying there, out of danger. As Catholics, they are no more second-class citizens than other sinners, and all of us have sinned. Sinners aren't strangers to the Church; saints are the mavericks. The Church is good to sinners. Does the Church discriminate against gays bv refusing to whitewash their consciences? Are the gays better off in the bars than they would be at Mass or confes­sion, looking for mercy? 
Some gays bear so much anger toward the Church, their pain hangs in the air like a cloud; yet love must have a place on the many sides of every argument. I would hate to tell a gay that father knows best; but if most of the gay iceberg stays submerged under the surface, how can you be sure that closet gays don't take heart from hearing about the concern that the Church has for them? 
I'm running scared, now that sincere Catholics are siding with the world to attack the Church. The faults, dear Brutus, are not in the Church, which beseeches the Lamb of God to take away our sins, but in ourselves. The only unforgiv­able sin is the one discrediting the miracles of Christ as the work of Beelzebub. Isn't there danger of sinning against the light if we abuse the Church by blaming it as the sin partner of the great Deceiver? 
Winston Churchill defined a fanatic as one who can't change the subject and won't change his mind. I'm not a fanatic. "Letters to a lonely God" will be less opinionated when you return from break. Have a safe one. Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 
Hy candle burns at both ends; It will not last the night; But, ah, my foes, and, oh, my friends-It gives a lovely light. 
O
urs may be the first of the "lost generations" to dress up as decadents and throw it­self an orgy which defines itself as a liberation movement. You could, if you wished, free your­self of self-love and adopt a lifestyle that would leave you dead at an early age, stoned out of your mind on drugs; in your moments of lucidity, you might feel punished by the realization that you've turned yourself into a junkie slave. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
You could, like a child of the Jazz Age in Paris--that city of the latter-day Babylonian cap­tivity, according to a story by Scott Fitzgerald--keep yourself sedated as an expatriate on cognac, and repeat like a eul­ogy the bittersweet epitaph in which Edna St. Vincent Millay describes herself as a candle consumed by extravagance long before dawn. Hers was a crowd that figured either God is dead, or He doesn't care a damn about human beings who lush to forget their pain. Read Eliot's "The Wasteland," Hemingway's "The Sun Also 
"It all seems wistful, .ike Millay's candle burning at both ends, at a party the liberationists are throwing for the beau­tiful and the damned." 
Rises" or Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" with its descrip­tion of the enormous starting eyeglasses, used as a roadside promotion of Dr. Ecclesburg-­an oculist long moved away, gazing unseeingly at a great gray ash heap--to get pictures of a world to which grace no longer came. That cynical age, unlike our own, didn't try to kid 
Itself into a belief that its 
hedonism and excesses were a celebration of the ways in which they were liberated. 
Men and women, as party animals, are living contradic­tions: creatures with the bril­liance of half-cracked archan­gels, gifted with the free will to 
Calvin and Hobbes 
humiliate themselves to the level of the beast. Creatures, aspiring to be children of the living God, allow themselves to be manipulated by physical appetites as though there were no tomorrow, with its morning after. In the wake of the sexual revolution, creatures feed on slogans of liberation as though those slogans were sacraments instead of half-truths. Even the elect seem deceived, and cat­holics now ask their Church to bless the liberation move­ments, as though none of us were in danger of dying in was­telands of our own choosing. 
If you don't believe in God, abortion on demand may be a 

sign of liberation. If God is dead, maybe the available models of grace under pres­sure are the guy who pays for his lady friend's abortion, the girl who warns her date that she has herpes and the respon­sible sex partner who insists on reducing the spontaneity of intercourse by the prudent use of condoms. 
In the Village Voice, you can read the brave, sad stories of patients suffering from AIDS ­drug users, hemophiliacs, heterosexuals, gays. They or­der balloons for the funeral, and the funeral dirge is "Send In the Clowns." No reading of Tennyson's "Sunset and Eve­ning Star" for these victims, dead at thirty or younger; whatever has happened, they've done it "their way" and to hell with the homecoming in a religion that never accepted them. It all seems wistful, like Millay's candle burning at both ends, at a party the liberationists are throwing for the beautiful and the damned. 
What is sin? The effect of sin is the realization of what you've done to yourself as you are waking up in the shabby dawn to discover that a thing of beauty may be a joy only until morning. Maybe you live through months or years of connecting one shabby dawn to another, before you realize that in your effort to grab brass rings, you're on your way to becoming an all-time loser hunting for a fix: alcohol, drugs, sex or a conquest. You don't like yourself very much for acting like a fool who has been looking for happiness in the wrong places. In wanting to be liberated, you've become a slave of your own worst weak­nesses. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------..----------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer page 9 
n.0....Not,. Dame office, located on the third floor of l...aFoftune Stu­dent c.ntw, eccepta clualfled ..tw.tiMig from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvoug11 Frtay. The 0....s.1nt ~offkle, locahld on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•. ac:cepts cl-.lfteda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtay. Deedllne tor next4ay claaslfledala 3 p.m. All claaslfleda must
Classifieds be pnlpald, eittwr In pen10n Of by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:tw.ct.n ~day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ADOPTION· Loving couple. phySICiar>psychOIDgiSI, deeply WIShes to adopt newborn. Wetcom1ng warm family, love, opportunltleal Expenses paid. Le­gal, confidential. Call Ellie or Alan collect 212-724-7942. TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997  CHILDCARE needed for our 4 yr. old and 7 yr. old. Wed. afternoons only. Mus! have own lransportalion. Call 288·3852 afler 5:00. Need ride lo Jackson, Mi alter 12 Fri. Will pay gas. Call Andy at 3074. THE BOTIOM LINE seeks business manager. Good money lobe made. Con­lac! John al232-5118 or Sieve at X3382. RIDE NEEDED BACK TO N.D. SUN. OCT. 25 FROM WESTERN PA. (PITISBURGH, ALTOONA, SOME­RSET, PA.TURNPIKE) CALL JIM 1935  Need USC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG BUCKSIIIICaiiJoe 287-4561 alter6pm ··································· HELPfll Sisler and hubby need USC GA's (in pairs). Please call Sieve al4223 or I may never see my nephew againlll NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 alter 6pm. I NEED 3 USC GA'S -KATHY 2909 ...................................... YOU GOTIUM AND f WANTUM. NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS CALL CHRIS AT X1694  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC, WILL PAY BIG OR TRADE NAVY GA'S CALL JACK 2383 I Need 2 USC GA's Call Pal r3451 $$ Desparalely need 3 or 4 USC Tix -Stu. or GA. Will pay CASH I Call 1793 today I DESPERATELY NEED ONE NAVY GA FOR BABY BROTHER. CALL JOE X1631 NEED USC GAs CALL 2287 HELP ME If I need many GA's for Boston College. Call Dave al 2238.  NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK­ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535·8490 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 268-4494 AFTER 5 PM. VOl Need 4 GA's lo any home game, pronto I Call Boone, 1657. PLEASE HELPI NEED JUST ONE USC STUDENT TIC. X4349 Allison NEEDED: 2 NAVY GAs VINCE 271-9441 NEED USC STDNT TIX CALL DAN AT 271-0460  RED 300 ZX HIT MONDAY NIGHT AT COMMONS If anyone oaw It happen, pfeaae cell Marc at 271-0675. NO QUESTIONS ASKED IF GUllTV COMES FORWARD. Will trade rooms at hole! across !rom campus for 2 tickels for USC game andtlr ALABAMA game. Call 2534 PLEASEI ELIZABETH (DUDE) Happy Birthday· the Big 191 Have a great day. 1 love ye, Wendy OUT OF CONTROL DO YOU ENJOY ROAD TRIPS AND PARTIES? DO YOU LIKE A CHALLENGE? ABOUT 20 COL·  
Wordproceasing-Typing 272·8827 Typing 237-1949 or 2n-a131 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER 233-7009.  CALL  FOR SALE 1986 PACE ARROW, 30 FT., 3,900 MILES, REAR BATH, TWIN M:, 6.5 KW GEN., HITCH, TV ANT, MoW, EXT. WAR­RANTY, LOCATED NO AREA. NEW $52,000, ASKING $38,500. CALL 717­339-3141. SONY DISKS  WILL SWAP 2 USC TICKETS FOR TWO BC TICKETS. WILL SWAP 2 PENN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 BC TICKETS. CALL BILL STARR 800-343-2820. WILL ALSO BUY BC FOR $$. MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283­1997. USC: I need lwo GAs for lhe USC game. Call  $$$$$$ NEED 4 BAMA GA'S CALL MARK 3592 $$$$$$ NEED NAVY GA'S·CALL 1553, ASK FOR JEFFI SELL ME YOUR USC TICKETS BEFORE BREAK. DON'T GET STUCK WITH THEM f NEED GA'S. ALSO NEED BAMA TIX. STUD. OR GA. CALL JOE 2073  PERSONALS TOI'F!lLAI'Jl)l!EASTY, THANKS FOR THE WILD NIGHTII FROM THE P.E. GIRLS WHO LOVE O.S. ................................................ Ann Seifert: An Aussie and a Scol wish you good Luck SATurday. The Fighlin' Irish wan! you backl M.W-P..S.A.  LEGE STUDENTS ARE RUNNING A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR, NATION­WIDE FUNDRAISER AND WE NEED YOUR HELP! FOR MORE INFO CON­TACT DAVE IN 366 DILLON X1851 SHOTOKAN KARATE Underground Club or inleresled people. Call 2046. TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE BACK FROM PfTISBURGH ON SUNDAY OCT 25 CALL 284-5489  ..  
F5 ATIENTION DOMERS There will be an NO vistory party a«er the Air Force game at Mike Brown's house In Colorado Springs. If you are go1ng to be there and need directions, call 283-3150. To NYC 1-way flight Sat, Oct 17 9·30 am 287-4336 TERRIE'S TYPING WORD PROCESS­ING, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, LETIER QUALITY PRINTER, WORD PERFECT, $1.50 SS, $1.25 OS, 287-1283 LOST/FOUND  Why pay $2.80 or more? Support !he MadMacs Macinlosh User's Group and gel h1gh-qualily, Sony 3.5" disketfes for only $1.40 each. Conlacl Tim Dierks at 283-31 01 or stop by Stanford 136. I have 2 NAVY GA's. Already been of­fered $75 for lhe pair. If sllfl inleresled, call SLUG al 3105. ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET TO WASH­INGTON D.C. FOR OCT. BREAK IT'S CHEAP-CALL BILL THE CAT r1506 ROUND-TRIP FLIGHT. S. Bend lo Char­lotte, NC. HYI7-1Qo20. Value $218. YOUR PRICE $125. 277-8707. FOR SALEII RESTAURANTJ8AR NEAR CAMPUS. OWNERS SELLING AT  Mike al 271-0765. BC Yep, I need lwo GAs for tile Boslon Col­lege game. Please call Mike al271-0765. USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'Sf DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 HELPI HELPI HELPI I NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE WILL PAY $$$$ OR TRADE UP WITH 2 NAVY  HELP I I need lwo Navy tickets. Sludenl or GA. £4421 Helpl I need lwo GAs for USC game. Call Nick al 3068. Thanks. NEED 2 GA'S EACH FOR USC AND ALABAMA GAMES. CALL BEVERLY 237-0600 EXT 234 LETTERMAN WANTS YOU TO SEE HIM LIVE bul only if you lrade me 4 USC GA's. We have 4 Letferman lickels. Call 234-6183 or 288-8673. Don't dlsappoinl Dave. I need the following tfxs NAVY -2 '3754 A. I AM fNDEPENDENTL Y WEAL THY B. I NEED ALABAMA GA's C. DO YOU  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY, ELIZABETH­ANNE CRISP I Thfa we a one of the hap­pleat deyo of our Uvea. We love you and are very proud of you. Mother and Dad  NEED 2 NAVY GA'Sff CALL MARG 3713 TO THE SATISFIED CHICKS OF NORTH, Hare are your Juot deaaarto; Hate to a-aatt your Image of me, but chicks do not eat me up. I kept your appetltea aatlaffad, bul I bet you thfrat for my condfmenta. Your aerve. THE HOT SALAD BAR BOY' Gordo, Smitfy, Big Arms & Sparky: 4 IN­CREDIBLE coaches... 4 really BIG scores. Things can only gel betferl We love you guysl OB, TE, RB & lhe rtisl of lhe Ducks P.S. Nexl happy hour?  
LOST -Gold Cross and Chain Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 $25 CASH REWARD for !he return of my leather av1ators jacket lost in a drunken slupor somet1me las! week. The brand name Is M1dway. Please call Jeff at 3166  WELL BELOW ORIGINAL COST. BUSI· NESS MAJORS, APPLY YOUR HARD EARNED EDUCATION AND OWN A BUSINESS EVERY COLLEGE KID WANTSI 277·0352 AFTERNOONS. TWO USC GA'S FOR SALE COST: 80$ OR BEST OFFER BY 7:00 THURS. CALL DAVEY. 2029  GA'S. CALL ANNE AT 2764 USC·USC NEED 2 USC GA'S I HAVE 2 BC GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH KEVIN 234-1208 Needed 4 Navy GA's and 2 slud lix call Brian l456  SEE POTENTIAL PROFIT D. WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS CALL RICK 1817 Wan! lo lrade 4 BC tlx for 4 Navy tlx. Call between noon and 10 pm. 234-5735. NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC & BC. CALL 272-6282. $$$$$  HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY, ELIZABETH­ANNE CRISP! Thfo waa one of the hap­pleat days of our ffvea. We love you and are very proud of you. Mother end Dad WANTED: A FEW GOOD DEPRESSED PEOPLE  Dear J (, We're happy lo see !hal you have finally given up on each olher and found a real man, even if he does cough up furballs. HAMLET .............................................................. I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE COSTS. CALL JOHN M. X2374  
LOST A long gold cha1n w11h a TIGER· EYE PENDANT, somewhere belween lhe War Memorial and !he Archilecture  3'x5'black dining room !able (wilh leaf) and 5 cheirs-$50 or besl offer. AHer 5pm­684-2059  Needed 4 Navy GA's & 2 slud lix call Brian al 1456  Need 4 Navy GA's Call Debra 284-5479  THAT NEED SMILES. Jus! Cuz Balloons 287-6043  Danny G. 3 days and counllng. 1 can'! wail to see you If love you I Your Genuine Montana Souvenir  
Building, on Fnday October 91h. There '" a large 11ger-eye anached wilh a half moon, a1x beads, and a ben! clasp. It has INCREDIBLE senlimenlal valuell!ll Please call Karen al r1992, 143 B-P LOST-span1sh book, "Tanio Major", lelt in NOH If pocked up please call Mark 2151, afler 8·30. THANKSII  TICKETS NEED TWO TICKETS FOR BC GAME. CALL 717-339-3141. $$$$$  DESPERATE FOR 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261. NEED 2 USC TIXI STUDENT,OA. $$NO PROBLEM. CALL (404) 392-1500 COL­LECT. ASK FOR STEVE JEGIER OR LEAVE MSG. HELP I DESPARATEL Y NEED  NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NEEDED ONEGA OR STUDENT CALL DEAN 2080 NAVY: f need 2 GA's for Navy. Call Ken al 3304.  WE DO TAILGATERS. MAKE YOURS NOTICEABLE. Juat Cuz Bellona 28NI043 906 Portage Ave. KIM  TERRY ANDRYSIAK, As loyal Irish fans, we have slood and cheered through many games, both good and bad. We were very disappoinled thai you did nol exlend lhe same courtesy lo fellow Domers who enjoy the sport as much as you--your rude enzone remarks during lhe BADIN-FARLEY foolball game were not appreciated. THREE BADIN FOOT­BALL PLA YEAS  
LOST Blue Noire Dame backpack be· tween 12·40 and I 2:50p.m. at bookslore on Mon HYI2. If you plan on keeping it, alleaslleave the notebooks al LaFortune lost and found. I need tham lor midterms lh1s week Please don't be a savage. Call Syl al 313?13134 FOUND·1n LaFortune-3 KEYS ON A BLUE NI:YALUMNI ASSOC KEY RING CALL 284-4425 LOST Brown geeky·look1ng glasses in brown, lake leather case (Tuesday mor­ning, 10-13) Please call-I can'! see a th1ng Mark TNT al 272-2271 LOSTIII GOLD NECKLACE AND OVAL LOCKET INITIALS MEB ON FRONT. HOLDS GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE RETURN TO 435 WALSH OR CALL MAURINE AT 2604. THANKS I LOST (las! week, In 02 parking lol or LaFortune laundry room?): JOURNAL of tremendous value. Within a blue-green Mead nolebook. Please call 3308 if found. REWARD MY GRANDMOTHER'S HEART-SHAPED LOCKET AND CHAIN CALL 6712 A.M. OR 233·1296 EVENINGS. FOR RENT  I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 NEEDED: USC GAs. f WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFERII CALL 1075 Young grad has tound lhe secrel lo career sucess --4 B.C. tickels for !he V.P. I need good seals, any price. Ann (312) 369-1519. NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5216 NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Than sell me your BC GA'I 10 my alatera, coualna, and uncles can see the Eagles losalllllll Calf Stave at 232­9818. BC TIX BC TIX BC TfX NEED BC TfX BC TIX USC-USC·USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DADI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272·5417, ASK FOR SL NEED USC TIX. CALL DOUG AT 234­6718.  1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL SCOTI Xt640 HELPII I NEED ONE STUD. OR GA TIX FOR THE NAVY GAME. I AM WILLING TO PAY A LOT OF $$$$. CALL WILL X3119 llfffllll$$$$$$$$$$$$11111111 FREE GIFT 111111111$$$$$$$$1!11111 WANTED 3 ALA­BAMA TfX (GA'S OR STUD) HAVE USC STUD TIX TO TRADE AND LOTS OF $$$$. CALL KEVIN X2477. 1 tic fot Ohare lo Calif. Price negoliabfe. Call Rex 232-5118. 1£$% &'()Wanted: 2 GAs or STUs for USC 271-0811 I'm a Satan worshipper who needs BC lickets for my boss. Seriously, !hough, call Kevin at 3164. Willing lo lrade a Navy licket. TICKETS NEEDED Wealthy Wall St. Alum nelda Penn St. and BC tfx. Calf Matt 1-800-223-6559. ................................................................ GIMMEE, GIMMEE, GIMMEE--2 BAMA GA'S WILL PAY FOR YOUR CHILD'S COLLEGE EDUCATION CALL PETE AT 271-0479 ..................... 2, 3 OR 4 GA'S NEEDED FOR ALA­BAMA GAME--CALL BILL AT X3366  $$$$1 need 2·31ickets forlhe USC game. Call 271-0122 I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S BEST OFFER BY THURS. 10 P.M. MARC 271-0675 HELPIll f NEED YOUR GA'S FOR USC, NAVY, AND BC. WILL PAY BIG $$$$$$$$ CALL 3510 NOW PLEASE HELP MElfi I NEED 2 B.C. STUD. TIX OR GA'S. CALL DINKY­2735. I NEED GAs FOR USC, ALL HOME GAMES.272-8306 NEED 4 BAMA GA'S HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND $$ TO BUY, SELL, OR TRADE WITH. CALL KEACH 1239 HELP HELP HELP I need to sell my USC sludenl ticket. I'm asking $10. Call JOHN al2057 RICH ALUM NEEDS 5 USC TICKS. 1163. GERRY FAUST will haunl you if you don'! give me 2 USC GA'S CALL JB AT 283­1681 usc usc usc NEED GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS CALL TRISHA AT 232-1345  HURRY HOME FOR OCT. BREAKI NO ONE HERE FEEDS US BETWEEN MEALS OR LEAVES THEIR ELECTRIC BLANKETS ON ALL DAY FOR US TO SLEEP ONf SMEAG & SMUDGE BOBOBOBOBOBOBOBOBOBC' HELP-I need as many stud tlx as pos­sible. Please call Kathy 284-5531. TICKET NEEDED FOR BC GAMEl CALL ROB AT 234-7168 """DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS"""" WHO ALWAYS WANTED TO COME TO AN NO GAME? I do and they're counling on me. Please sell me your GA or sludenl tickets for lhe USC game if you don't plan to be here. 11'11 make !heir daylfl Call Cathy r2488 ""'Thankslfl"" Dear Marni, Hi! I'm in Ohio, end ...well, not really, bul jusllhink: only 5 weeks 'til Thanksgiving! Can'! walllo see your facel In the mean­lime, Happy Sweelesl Day, and beware ol postmen bearing bears. Love. AI ii·;;;;;~·a·irthd~y-ii.i:rii"i.A:·;;;~~~-i~ ~~iii~g for you, so hurry up and !urn lwenty on !he lwenly-firsl. Love lhe Pebble Beachers  SUSIE FROM REGINA, IT'S NOT MY FAULT YOU SPENT YOUR SHUTTLE FARE ON A CANDY BAR I KNEW SOMETHING WAS WRONG WHEN f SAW THE GRASS BETWEEN YOUR TEETH I SHOULD HAVE BROUGHT A BUCKET OF OATES TO THE ROOM INSTEAD OF CHAMPAGNE, YOU WERE A GOOD DATE TILL THE FOOD RAN OUT, I'LL WORRY ABOUT BEING BLACK BALLED AS SOON AS YOU LOSE A FEW HONEYI -MIKE SUSIE ITS NOT THAT I'VE NEVER BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE, IT'S JUST THAT I HAVEN'T BEEN TURNED DOWN BY ANYONE SO HEAVY-MIKE HELPI NEED RIDE TO CHAMPAIGN FOR BREAK. CALL BRIAN 1513 HELP! NEED RIDE FROM BLOOMINGTON AT END OF BREAK. CALL BRIAN 1513 DATELESS WONDERS· BE A PART OF IT SOON IIIII ........................................................... . JOKERI JOKERI JOKERI and the BIGSTERI Happy birthdoe to John Muellerleile and Mike Newlon! JUAN, Someone who will be baking in !he Jamaican sun will be thinking of you and wishing you lhe besl of luck on your LSAT on Salurdayl  
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN·  NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-348-2822 AFTER 5 PM.  NEED 4 TIX FOR USC. CALL 312-623­5328. WILL PAY$$$. ................................................................  $$$$$$ NEED NAVY TIX If slud or GA call Karen 271-0585  To my Alumni SYR dele, MIKE who broughl me lo his room & indireclly !old me lo pul out or gel oul,  Crewbie Come Swimmer  and  Play-againl  The  
TALS 272-5959 large house for renl--7 bedrooms.2 baths,2 refrigerators,washer and dryer ,off slreel parking. call debbie before 4pm 288-6740.  CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES IIIII I  SENIOR IN NEED OF G.A.'s for HOME games, especially U.S.C. and Navy. Please help me il's !he las! lime !hey can gel to a game. Call in the am. or after 10 pm. Thanksl Ann 284-5064.  I need GA's for ALABAMA or B.C. Call Pale or Nance al 3767 or 1284. Looking lo lrade 4 Navy GA's for 4 Bama GA's. Call Hugh-2120  I'm glad I gol outl I jusl wanled you lo know I made it safely to the shullle by myself after being so "graciously" es­corted to lhe door. I may have been lhe first bul definilely nollhe lasllo turn you down.-Your lhoroughly disgusted date  GIG I f HOPE YOUR BIRTHDAY MAKES YOU AS HAPPY AS YOU MAKE ME. LOVE, 50428  
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR NOV. GAME WEEKENDSGRADUATION. 1-219­291-7153. ................................................................ WANTED EARN $4 PER HR. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING, MEALS & EXCELLENT WORK ENVIRONMENT ARE AVAIL­ABLE. CALL 277-2882 FROM 10 AM &  BOSTON COLLEGE GA's GIMME, GIMME, GfMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm holding your family hoslage Please call Chris X 1489 NEED ALABAMA and NAVY TIX x3611  NEED FOUR BAMA TICKETS CALL GREG AT 289-6714 f NEED 5 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON 2519 . ..................... NEEDED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC GAME. CALL CHRIS AT X1145. NEED 10 USC TIXI  WILL TRADE OR PAY$ for BC tix. call Rich 283-2144 NEED 2 USC STUDENT TIX CALL TOM­1245 FOR SALE NAVY & USC GA'S CALL 2086 NEED 2 USC GAs. IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL KEVIN. rt496  from Regina. P.S.Girls Bewarel To the date from Hell aka Mike _ f jus! wanled lo remind you !hal SYR stands for screw your roommate not screw your date. f hope you had a great nigh! being rejecled. Thanks again for taking such good care of my friend. -anolher admirer from Regina Helplf need 2 GA's for USC & Navy! Please call Marcie 284-4196 Falher's Insurance Co would like 2 Bema GA's (How does $100  IRISH VOLLEYBALLIII TOUGH LOSS ON FRIDAY NfTE, GOOD LUCK OVER BREAK. SEE YOU IN TEXAS. THE TOWERS SLT HAVE A GREAT OCT BREAK! KNOW THAT I'LL BE TH/NKIN OF YOU: WITH EARS,MIND,HEART,AND BUGS LOVE  
8 PM FOR DETAILS. HOCKEY REFEREES WANTED  NEED 10 USC TfXf NEED 10 USC TIXf You can't lose I'm desperate.  Desperalely need lo gel rid of plane lix loWash. D.C. for break I Call Kevin x1885  sound?) Call Sue 284-4035  THE "OPTIMISTIC" DOCTOR OF UN­DERWARE  
Join the Mlchlana Hockey OHicfafo Ao· ooclatfon and oHiclate In the lrloh Youth Hockey League. Arrangement• can be made eo that all of your gemea are In the ACC. To receive an appll· cation call 2n-9901, Need riderslo1ro DC for break I LISA 287­6726  ................................................................ need 3 BC ga"s --call Mary al r2808 NEED 4 BC TfX WILLING TO PAY BUCKS ANOOR TRADE 2 BAMA GAs CALL scon rt4t2  Mike (800) 345-2059 (Day) or (312) 761-2099 (Eve or Weekend) ................................................................ Need 6 USC GA's. Call Jenny 284-4154. ................................................ DESPERATELY NEED 10-15 NAVY GA's AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050.  FOR SALE 4 USC GA's CALL X1139 Wanld: 4 Slud. B.C. lix and 1 Bama slud. Call 2120 or 4n9 NEED TRANSPORTATION BACK TO NO FROM PHILLY AFTER BREAK? I've gol a one way airline ticket !hal has your name on it. CHEAP! CALL 4107  GRADUATE STUDENT'S PRAYER God, give me the slrenglh lo make lhis a world in which no one is above criticism, where everyone gels his, where every­one agrees wilh me. Help me to fudge and to equivocate, and let the army shoes be always on lhe olher guy's mama. In lhe name of Him who is Trulh, Amen. --J. Heinrich Schlieslak  LONELY GIRL looking for jus! the rtghl guy (ANY GUY) to go on a special dale. PLEASE CALL LESLIE ASTORGA see PERSONALS, page 15  

-.-~-----------. 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1987 
Talks progress as NFL lines crossed 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The 23-day-old NFL strike seemed near an end Wednesday night, with the players one point away from going back to work without a new contract. The union vowed to work through the night in search of agreement, but it was unclear whether normal foot­ball could yet be played this weekend. 
The new discussions came on a day when some of the biggest names in the game broke ranks with their teammates and led 89 players back to work. 
Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFL players As­sociation, said the "key stick­ing point" was how long to extend the 1982 Collective Bar­gaining Agreement, which ex­pired Aug. 31. The players want a Feb. 1 extension, the owners June 16, Upshaw said. 
"We would be willing to return to work. We would be willing to play under the 1982 agreement," Upshaw said. "But everything must expire Feb. 1." 
Earlier, Minnesota Vikings General Manager Mike Lynn said progress had been made and "if you can resolve an issue, it can be resolved at any time." 
"But time is running out to play this Sunday," he said. "I would say if there wasn't anything done tonight, it would be difficult to get the players ready for Sunday." 
Upshaw talked twice by tele­phone Wednesday with Jack Donlan, executive director of the owners' NFL management Council. And while both union and management spokesmen said nothing was resolved to end the walkout immediately, sources on both sides indicated that more discussions might be imminent as the union faced the fallout from the worst day of defections since the strike began on Sept. 22. 


AP Photo 

Tom Flores speaks to his non-union team at a been made in talks between management and the practice. Flores and other NFL coaches may soon Players' Association. have their original teams back as progress has 
day of practice this fall. He saw conference and two-time all­right there," Rice said. "The films, but said it was tough to state selection. Rice picked up games are easier, when he's on tell from those how well Rice more than 7,000 career yards the sidelines and not bothering could throw the ball. in total offense as a four-year you. 
"Everybody was saying, starter, and was understand­"At first I thought he (Holtz) 'You'll be like another Jamelle ably one of the most highly­didn't like me," Rice laughed. Holieway,' " Rice said. "I'm touted players in the nation. "When I made a bad play, he'd not. I'm Tony Rice. That's it." And for a sophomore with say stuff like, 'I'm never 
Considering what Rice has little game experience, Rice recruiting from South Carolina done in the past, that should be seems to like being under the again.' " enough. pressure of a game situation. 
The Woodruff, S.C., High Especially when you compare But if prospects like Rice 
School star led his school to two the games with the practices. keep coming along, don't count consecutive Class AA state "It's harder in practices for on Holtz living up to that state­titles and was a three-time all-me, because Coach Holtz is ment. 
Rice 
continued from page 16 
It hurt. But after awhile, after I met a lot of people and got comfortable with what was happening, it was OK." 
Rice became almost legen­dary on campus in a hurry. When the Irish began losing the close games and starting quar­terback Steve Beuerlein was under fire from the student body, Rice's name came up more and more. 
"He's an option quarterback. That's what Holtz needs out there." 
"He could be another J amelle Holieway." 
Those are some of the more modest things people were saying around here. 
"Nobody had even seen me play," Rice said. 
In fact, Holtz never saw Rice throw a football until the first 


PROCTER & GAMBLE 

The people of Procter & Gamble present an 
overview of our Finance organization and 
employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we
FINANCE can learn more about you. 

You Are Invited to Attend Date: October 27, 1987 a Presentation 
Time: 6:30p.m.
PEOPLE 

Place: Center for Continuing Education 
OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT 

Center Dining Area (Basement) 


Key Speaker: C.F. Clark (Chuck) 
Comptroller 

Foodservice & Lodging Products 
Reception to Follow 
_________.-------------------------~---------~ 
Thursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer 
page 11 

Irish travel to Midwest, Far West over break 
By PETE SKIKO figure we shouldn't get too ex­Sports Writer cited until we have good reason to celebrate. Hopefully, that The Notre Dame soccer will be at the end of the year. team, nursing a 13-0-1 unde­But the boys had two days off feated string and gaining more before (yesterday's) practicenational attention with each and they looked real fresh. I'm game, fights to remain among happy with their attitude going 
the ranks of the unbeaten as it in." goes on the road for two games Portland may prove to be over break. more of a challenge to the Irish, 
The Irish will travel to and Grace is wary of the squad, DePaul on Saturday for an af­which is similar to the Irish in ternoon game with the Blue several ways. "They have a Demons, and will then catch a very good unit, there's no doubt flight west for a game next about that," said Grace. Wednesday with Portland. "Their coach is in his fourth 
"DePaul has only won two year there, as am I. Their team games, but those were their is loaded with juniors who have last two," said Head Coach experience and talent, some­Dennis Grace, in his fourth what similar to ours. And the year as the coach of the Irish. last time I talked to thier "They have absolutely nothing coach, he was talking about to lose by playing us. They're challenging for a national going to go all out to try to championship within a · few knock off a team in the Top 20." years. I don't know if they have 
Notre Dame is ranked as that potential, but we certainly high as seventh in the country will not overlook them. by one soccer poll, and is ranked second in the Great "Also, they play on Astroturf Lakes region. But Grace does out there, and the last time we not think that the rankings played on turf (against West­have affected anyone on the ern Michigan) we didn't have squad, least of all him. one of our better perfor­
"The kids just want to play," mances. If we maintain the in­said Grace. "They're going to tensity that we've showed for 
Rehder key in the trenches
want to travel after midterms a lot of this season, we should 


and play some good soccer. I be all right." 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Jeanne Marie Burke 
Love, Mom and Dad 
AMERIC~S FIRST FAMILY OF SUPER-PREMIUM BEERS. Enjoy super-premiurn quality in J? oz. bottles 

By MOLLY MAHONEY fense the time and space it His intense style of play on Sports Writer needs to operate. the field may lead some to see Rehder, one of four fifth-year him as a verbal leader on the "Actions speak louder than seniors on the offensive line, team, but Rehder prefers to let words." began his career with the Irish his actions speak for them­
That is the general consensus as a tight end but enthusiastic­selves. in the Irish football office these ally agreed to assume the "It's my responsibility to go days. Just ask senior Tom Reh­duties of a tackle. out and do my job to the best der or offensive line coach "I belong here," said Reh­of my ability," said Rehder. Tony Yelovich about the impor­der. "This is where my physi­"then the coaches can concen­tance of their rather thankless cal attributes pay the biggest trate on different areas that work to Notre Dame's offense. benefits to the team and my fu­need improvement instead of 
They will just toss a stat book ture." worrying about me." at you and point at the Taking his talents to a new scoreboard. Notre Dame's suc­position has been a challenge, Rehder's work ethic follows cess this year speaks for itself. especially when adjusting to him off the field as well be­
But it is the battle in the the techniques of pass blocking cause he insists that football is trenches that Rehder and his which require what Rehder "not just a game, it's a way of fellow offensive lineman fight calls "passive aggressive­life." on every snap that gives the of-ness." He is dividing his time be­
"A lot is different," said tween the football field and the 
Yelovich, "but he made an ex­classroom as he completes his cellent transition. Tom has fine MSA. speed and quickness and he has tremendous work habits on the "By achieving my goals in field during practice." football," said Rehder, "other 
Rehder strives to be a things stem from this success "dominant player on the foot­and come almost second na­ball field" but places a national ture. "If you are a winner in championship and the Reis­one aspect of your life, in­man Trophy for Tim Brown as evitably this spills over into his most important goals. other areas." 

-·--­

page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1987 
Cross country squads to run at Indiana lntercollegiates 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team will be trying to establish itself as a state powerhouse Friday in the Indiana Intercol­legiates at Purdue. 
The Irish finished first in the little state division last year and fifth overall. Once again, the teams to beat will be the host Boilers, Indiana, Indiana State and Ball State. 
"We can do at least as well as last year," coach Dan Ryan said. "I'd like to finish in the top four. It will depend on the strength of the girls and how well they pack." 
The tactics and strategy of the team the Irish will have to down to push into the top four, Ball State, will be no surprise to the Irish. The Cardinals finished one spot ahead of them at the Notre Dame Invitational and then downed the Irish 15-48 in a dual meet last weekend. Ryan, though, rested his top five in the dual meet and says that will give his team an ad­vantage over the Cardinals. 
"I think it will be a signifi­cant factor," Ryan said. "Our top five will be a little fresher. Ball State had to run one more race than us. With a few more teams and some more individ­uals spread in there, I think we can take them." 
The Ball State meet did decide the remainder of the Irish lineup for this week's meet. Freshman Ruth Piatz and sophomore Linda Filar will join regulars Theresa Rice, Jenny Ledrick, Julia Merkel, Kathleen Lehman and Wendy Murray as the Irish hopefuls. 

The Indiana Intercollegiates will be the only meet for the Irish harriers over fall break. 
The men's cross country team will also compete in the Indiana Intercollegiates. 
Indiana won the race a year ago, with Notre Dame placing third. This season, the Irish are coming off a third-place finish in the Notre Dame Invitational and a second-place showing in the National Catholic meet. Head Coach Joe Piane said he hopes the depth on his team im­proves. 
''I know that Dan Garrett and Mike O'Connor will run well and finish near the top, they have been doing that all year," he said. "I'm just concerned about us as a team. If we can run as a team there are a lot of possibilities for us." 
Cardinals reach World Series 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS --The St. Louis Cardinals, the best do-or-die team in baseball history, came alive on Jose Oquendo's three­run homer and behind the pitching of Danny Cox to win the National League playoffs Wednesday night, beating the San Francisco Giants 6-0 in Game 7. 
The Cardinals earned their 15th World Series trip, third in the last six years, by winning the final two games at home before raucous crowds of 55,331. St. Louis and the Min­nesota Twins, making their first World Series appearance since 1965, play Game 1 Satur­day night at the Metrodome. 
Cox allowed eight hits and ex­
tended the Giants' scoreless 
streak to 22 innings, a playoff 
record. He also ended their 
chance at reaching the World 
Series for the first time since 
1962. 
Oquendo's homer off Atlee 
Hammaker capped a four-run 
second inning and sent Busch 
Stadium into a frenzy as the 
Cardinals came charging out of 
the dugout to greet the utility 
player who had just hit the 
third home run of his career 
--all against the Giants. 
BULLETIN 
CALL IMMEDIATELY FOR 
RESERVATIONS 
St. Louis is 8-2 in seventh games, winning more Game 7s than any other team. The New York Yankees are next at 5-5. This was the first Game 7 in NL playoff history since the best-of -seven format began three years ago. 
The Cardinals, who were out­hit, outhomered and outplayed in the field for the first six games, were humming. Every­thing they did worked, while the Giants could do little but watch. 
Only Jeffrey Leonard, the se­ries Most Valuable Player, made a contribution for the Giants by going 2-for-3. But even his luck ran out in the sixth inning when he hit a line drive that Gold Glove shortstop Ozzie Smith deflected in the air and then caught on the carom. 
Leonard earned a $50,000 bonus for being named MVP. 
Leonard, who homered in the first four games, tied a playoff record with 10 hits in 24 at-bats. 
The Cardinals finished with 12 hits and five walks off seven pitchers. They put the game away in the bottom of the sixth on a two-run single by Tom Herr, the only batter reliever Craig Lefferts faced. 

Cox, who pitched the game that clinched the NL east title for the Cardinals, had been hit hard in losing Game 4. But he had little trouble on the cool, clear night and did not walk a batter, struck out five and was helped by three double plays. 
The Cardinals and Twins both finished below .500 last season, Minnesota going 71-91 and St. Louis at 79-82. This World Series marks the first time two teams that finished under .500 opposed each other in the World Series since 1965 

when Los Angeles played Min-•••••••••••••••••••••••
nesota. 


AP Photo 

Danny Cox hurled a complete-game shutout to clinch the National League pennant for the St. Louis Cardinals. Details of the Cards' 6-0 victory appear below. 
Happy 19th Birthday Elizabeth-Anne Crisp! Love, Mother, Dad, John 

FOR FALL BREAK 

.. 
10844 U.S. 20 (one and one· halt miles east of Binersweet) Osceola, Indiana 46S61 

~~==ae~~'l-~~~'=a=====~~---S-ta_r_ts__F_ri_d_av_,_o__ct_o_b_e_r_1_6_th_,_a_t_a_t_h_e_at_r_e_n_e_ar_v_o_u__~J 
Thursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Volleyball team looks strong at midway point 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
They're 16-4, and off to the best start ever for a Notre Dame volleyball team. 
But three of those loses have come to Top 20 teams, and two Irish opponents next week are, you guessed it, in the Top 20. 
Notre Dame will face seventh-ranked Texas this Sat­urday, and eighth-ranked Ne­braska next Thursday. In between these two tough matches the Irish will meet Baylor (Monday) and Texas A&M (Tuesday). All these con­tests will be away. 
"Texas is far and away the 
best team we have played thus 
far -no question," said Notre 
Dame head coach Art Lam­
bert. "Both Texas and Ne­
braska are the types of teams 
that will not beat themselves. 
They don't give away side-outs and points, you're gonna have to earn them." 
If the Top 20 challenges aren't enough, add a season­ending injury to a two-year starter. Sophomore Kathy Cunnin­gham, who has emerged as a leader for the Irish with 3.43 kills per game and a . team­leading 217 digs, will miss the rest of the season with a disl­ocated shoulder. Cunnin­gham's injury occurred on Sun­day against Minnesota on a dig attempt. 
"Obviously I'm disappointed about Kathy Cunningham's in­jury," said Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert. "She was second in kills on the team and one of the best passers as well. Losing her really hurts us. 
"There are people ready to jump into that starting spot," continued Lambert, "people who are very competitive and competent players. I have 

Notice to Members of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union As part of an audit of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, as of September 30, 1987, the Supervisory Committee has recently distributed statements of accounts to all members. If you did not receive your statement, please contact the Supervisory Committee, Notre Dame Credit Union, P.O. Box 583, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
Telephone: (219) 239-6611. 
r----------•Store Coupon----------.,
I 4 Foot and 6 Foot
I Giant Submarine Sandwiches 
I 
Present this coupon at time
I 
I of purchase and receive a I 
$3.00 Discount

I I Please call to
I order in advance County
I 277-8694 
1 Martiet
I 
SAVE 
TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS 

1 $% 0 0 5901 N. Grape Road 
I V e Buyers Market Place 
I Mishawaka, IN 46545 I 
~-------------------------J. 

,.. 
DJ's Greg Harris and Tom Sloane will play music to dance to. 

This will be our last night open before the break, so don't miss I'tl. 
every reason to believe that they will pick up the slack and help in other ways. You always get surprises in these situa­tions." 
The Irish bench has gotten deeper not only this season, with 10 returning monogram winners, but in the past few weeks. Junior Whitney Shew­man played well coming off the bench in the three matches last weekend, hitting at a .400 clip and playing solid defense. Freshmen Amy White, Rachel Hall and Colleen Wagner have 
also  been  playing  well  in  
reserve.  
'.'Whitney  Shewman's  best  

assets are her quickness and smart hitting," said Lambert. She played very well.for us this weekend (in three matches against Kentucky, Northern Il­linois and Minnesota). She just is getting back to where she was last spring before her knee surgery. 
"It takes a while to get your timing and anticipation back after being out, and those are much more critical for a middle blocker." 
Sophomore setter Taryn Col­!ins is currently 12th in the na­tion in assists per game with 11.73, and leads the North Star Conference in that category. 

Mter the four-game road trip 
over break, the Irish have five 
consecutive home matches, 
beginning the last Saturday of 
break with a 7:30 p.m. match 
against Wisconsin in the Joyce 
ACC Pit. Nine of Notre Dame's 
11 games remaining after 
break will be home matches. 
"I'm very pleased with Amy White. She has been gaining more and more confidence. Rachel Hall has been improv­ing as a middle blocker-that's a difficult position to learn. And I have no doubt that Colleen Wagner will make her pres­ence known, it's just a matter of when." 
Notre Dame is at the mid­season mark of the 1987 cam­paign, one that could just bring the Irish their first-ever NCAA Tournament bid. Despite a 33-7 record last fall, Notre Dame did not receive an invitation to post-season play. 
The two fall break matches with the Longhorns and Cornhuskers are an indication 


ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 


of the strong schedule that the Irish needed to play to get recognized by the NCAA. 
And they have. Notre Dllme is currently ranked seventh in the NCAA Mideast Regional Poll, its highest ranking ever. Last week the Irish recieved over 10 votes in the Tac­hikara!AVCA Top 20 poll prior to their five-game loss to lOth­ranked Kentucky Friday. 
"What I want first and foremost," said Lambert, "is to play is for us to play well and take our game to a higher level. I'm very satisfied with our progress in the past four or five days. For the season, we've made good progress but it has not been as fast as I thought it would be." 
The Irish have won 13 of their last 15 matches, losing only to No. 16 Northwestern and No. 10 Kentucky since mid­September. Of their 16 wins, 10 have come in the form of a three-game sweep. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame offensively this fall has been Zanette Bennett, a junior outside hitter who is averaging 
3.77 kills per game and is hit­ting for a .344 percentage. "Z" also leads the team in service aces (28) and solo bocks (34). 
Cunningham and JUmor Maureen Shea have also been major factors in Notre Dame's success this fall. Cunnin­gham's defensive hustle has contributed to her team­leading 217 digs, while she also has developed into a solid out­side hitter with 3.43 kills per game. Shea has played in all but one of the team's 75 games and leads Notre Dame in block assists with 72. 
The Irish now have middle 
blocker Mary Kay Waller back 
in the lineup after the junior 
missed several matches with a 
sprained ankle. Waller leads 
Notre Dame with 2.20 blocks 
per game and, though hitting a 
.327 kill percentage, is begin­
ning to regain her 1986 form 
when she was fifth in the nation 
in kill percentage (.395) and 
12th in blocks per game (1.54). 
"Waller is not where she should be yet," said Lambert. 
Leonard wins MVP 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Jeffrey Leonard, who overcame the taunts of 55,000 St. Louis fans to win the National League playoff Most Valuable Player Award Wed­nesday night, was less than thrilled with his accomplish­ment. 
That's because Leonard's San Francisco Giants were shut out in both the sixth and seventh games, losing the title to the Cardinals. 
Although his contract pays him a $50,000 bonus for winning the award, Leonard called the honor ''bittersweet.'' 
"It will be the only one on my mantlepiece that reminds me of something awful," the San Francisco left fielder said. 
Leonard had two singles in the Giants' 6-0 loss Wednesday night, running his total for the series to 10 hits in 24 at-bats. He set a playoff record by hit­ting home runs in four consecu­tive games and tied NL playoff records with his 10 hits and 22 total bases. 
Leonard, who hit .417 in the series, finished with five runs scored and five runs batted in. 
~-------------------­

page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1987 
-Sports Briefs 
CBSannounced this week that it will air the Tryouts for the varsity men's basketball Notre Dame-Southern Cal game at 12:30 South team will be held tonight in the JACC Auxiliary Bend time. Kickoff for the Saturday, Oct. 24, Gymnasium at 7:30p.m. -The Observer contest will be at 12:45. -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held Friday, October The swim team will hold its Blue vs. 23, for the USC game at Stepan Center at 7 p.m. Gold Inner Squad Meet today from 4-6:30 p.m. -The Observer -The Observer 
a 7.3 
while . the 
(6-2, Jeff 

Game 
continued from page 16 
Holtz insists. "It's a case where whoever's the quarterback, everybody's got to pull for him and we have to work the thing together. All we ask from Tony Rice, or whoever's playing quarterback, is, 'hey, take the snap, execute and play your role.' " 
Whether Rice, Kent Graham, or Pete Graham is taking the snaps, the Irish figure to try to bounce back from a season-low 103 yards rushing against Pitt and establish control of the line of scrimmage, and control of the clock to keep the ball away from the free-wheeling Air Force wishbone. 
A key to accomplishing that will be avoiding turnovers. Notre Dame has given the ball away five times in the last two games, compared to one giveaway in the first two con­tests. 
The Falcon defense has given up 347 yards per game, but only 
17.2 points per game. All-WAC defensive tackle Chad Hen­nings (6-5, 260) has 41 tackles and 13 sacks for minus 100 yards this season. He is the all­time Air Force leader in career lost yardage on tackles, and needs one more tackle for a loss to break that career mark. 
Nose guard John Steed (6-2, 
230) , the only other returning starter, makes up for his lack of size with intensity, while in­side linebacker Rip Burgwald leads in tackles with 68. 
Air Force's offense vs. 
Notre Dame's defense 
The Air Force wishbone is firmly implanted in the minds of both Irish defenders and fans. So far this season, it has averaged 444.7 total yards per game, 347.7 of that rushing, in­cluding 637 total yards in a win over utah. 
Sophomore quarterback Dee Dowis is the leading rusher, 713 yards on 98 carries for average, followed by junior ful­lback Andy Smith (359 yards on 76 carries) . 

Senior Quinton Roberts also sees time at fullback, junior Anthony Roverson and Albert Booker are halfbacks. 
Center Blake Gettys 
260) and right tackle Johnson (6-3, 247) are returning 
starters on the offensive line. 
Senior wide receiver Tyler Barth represents the biggest receiving threat with nine receptions for 212 yards and two touchdowns. 
Holtz described the frustra­tion of trying to pick the 'bone. 
"They run the same thing play after play, down after down," he said. "They know it very well and there's no way you stop that on the black­board. The blackboard will not be able to defend the wishbone. What you have to do is play ex­cellent technique and hope that somewhere along the line you can execute.'' 
AP Photo 

James Hecker and Pat Ahlgrlmm stop a Utah receiver in an Air Force victory earlier this year. The Irish will try to rebound from a loss against Pittsburgh against the Falcons Saturday. Rick Rletbrock previews the game beginning on the back page. 
That challenge is in the hands Flannery will get the start. of Notre Dame's defensive unit Ned Bolcar had 17 tackles which also lost a quarterback, last week, Darrell Gordon had free safety Corny Southall, to 15 and Cedric Figaro 15 to lead injury (knee). Freshman Todd the defense, but the squad suf­Lyght will call the signals from fered its worst outing of the the secondary in place of Sout­season. Pitt was able to pile up hall. 204 rushing yards, the most 
· Defensive tackle Jeff Kunz against Notre Dame this may also miss the game with season. an ankle injury that has been The run defense will have plaguing him much of the year. plenty of chances to redeem it­If he is unable to play, Bryan self against the wishbone. 


Thursday, October 15, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mark Williams 
t./1-I[RE'S BRIAN ? 
BUT D!DNT Hf HAVE 
TH!Jr'S WHY H£ l[fT 
.4 Tt:sT TODAY 7
HE L£Fr 
\
I 
/
YtsTERJJAY. 


~ 



Campus 
Thursday 
1: 15p.m. -Student Chamber Recital, Room 115 Crowley Hall, sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Department of Music. 3:15p.m.-SMC English Department Informal Workshop with Patricia Hampl. Stapleton Lounge. 
4:30-6:30p.m.-BYOB Cookout ("Bring Your Own Body"), for Alcohol Aware­ness Week, Fieldhouse Mall. Friday 
12:15-1:00 p.m. -Robert Breunig of Medical Ambassadors International, talk on "Current Human Rights Situation in Philippines: the Rise of Vigilante Groups." Center for Social Concerns coffee room. Midsemester break begins immediately after all classes are complete. 
PERSONALS 
continued from page 9 
COULD IT BE THAT OUR DREAMS HAVE COME TRUE?I? WE'VE HEARD RUMORS THAT THE SEXY MAN WORKING THE D·E SALAD BAR ON STUDENT APPRECIATION NIGHT IS NOW FULL TIMEIII IF YOU HAVE MORE INFO PLEASE REPLY HERE SOON III 
Hey Boc-Have a happy 18th and hope you have a good tome on THE OTHER SIDE.Roomong was GREAT whole it lasled.Maybe someday we can try it agaon. B.S.KING 
ST JUDE, PRAY FOR US AND ALL THOSE WHO INVOKE YOUR AID 
LA. WHEN OUR EYES MEET. I MELT INTO A POOL OF INSIGNIFICANCE. 
DAISIESIThanks alot.but who sent them to me on Tues?There was no card. The flowers are beautiful, but I'd like to thank you personally. CALL ME PLEASE,Jane 
SKIP-my boyfnend, PLEASE CALL ME­your heartbroken gorllnend 
Ale• D & MM You are a beautolul man! AM 
PUMPKIN. CAN'T WAIT TO SEE YOU IN THE SOUTHI LOVE, OKRA 
STUDS OF 318 'NAUGH: Have fantastic Oct. breaks in both Europe and the U.S. Just don't use my AmE• £ unless you bring back a present: tall, blonde, and rich II Be good, and il ya can't be good, be good at lt. Luv 'Aeon 
RANDY GALLAGHER I've been watching you from alar, just wanted to say Happy Sweetest Day. Keep smiling. and have a great break. Your secret admirer 
Attention Gorgeous Comers: Make a beautiful SMC's birthday-call and wish Heidi Hrastnik a happy 19th K4427. 
....................................... Heidi, Happy 19th I I couldn't have asked lor a better roommate I Luv ya a ton kiddo, Meg 
.......................................................... 
To our Fearless Leader, Happy 18thl Your roommies in the Bloo Zoo wish you the bestl Love.Erin.Betsy.Lisa,Anne,&Kosty 
................... Amy, Congratsl You are no longer jail bait! Love, Erin 
........................ 
Happy B-Day Jeanne-Marie I Thanks lor 
making SMC so special lor me. You really 
made me feel comfortable. I hope you 
have a wonderlul21sll Hope to see you 
in Florida. We can score together. Love, 
John's little soster 
.... ........................ .. .. .. 
White girl lor sale---now able to drink,is 
lnsh but OK,very, very tall,tests 
well,bolingual,senously into astrol­
ogy...what's your sign? enjoys assorted 
water sports. Trade or best offer. From 
a guy who gets dug by chicks To Nlck,Rob,Spaz,Lovebirds, & 12oz Mike-we had a great time at Pitt. Thanks lor your house Spaz, & especially squirrel hiii-Trlsh will never forget it. Let's roadtrip 
. again. Love, Trish(S) 
Happy Birthday, To our "Hyde" love, the Twins 
Zoobait & Pansy-We're hurt I We thought we were the "best time everi"Did the "lrosh" really show us up?ll HJ & TA P.S.Have a good breakll 
Dear Jell: Here's a special Birthday poem just for 
you: Cherries are red, You'd see if you'd look. I'd make some dessert, But I lost my cookbook. 
So lor your birthday here's a big hug That says happy 20th to the slug. Happy 20th Birthday! Love ya, Booji 
JULIE STAUTBERG Happy Birthday-Sweet Legality I Hope you get to enjoy some Remy (If not-a few good Buddies will be just fine)l Too bad we can't party with you but we don't want to get written upl Have a great dayl Love,Lillie Mae,Betsy&Bobby 
Dearest Kiwi, Happy Sweetest Day (early) to the SWEETEST one of alii Let's hear it for Freudian Slips! Love, a KKO 
Duck, You quack me up when I'm feeling blue I Thank you for being a wonderful room­mate! Love, K 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Max & Buddy 6 Fishing nets 
12 Pendant 14 Egyptian king 15 A Roosevelt 16 Reticence 17 Fruitless 
errand 19 Vane letters 20 Half a fly 
21  Males  
22  Elected  ones  
24  Ski lift  
26  Honshu  
money  
29  Book part  

32 Gender: abbr. 33 Roof overhang 34 Cartoon 
character 38 In a poor way 39 Altar words 40 "The -·Man" 41 Pipe joint 42 Dill herb 43 Goose aggs 44 In addition 45 OPEC product 47 Dallas school 
letters 50 Water game 55 Grapefruits 56 Try to equal 57 Beetles 58 Quiets down 59 Flxas tha lawn 60 Mora recent 
150WN 1 Actress Ina 2 Anointed old 
style 3 Mild oath 4 Circle 5 Noses 6 Jackie Cooper 
film 7 Bacon slice 8 Vlclnltlas 9 Clashes 
10 Fondness 11 That girl 12 Axed 13 -point 

(embroidery stitch) 

©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
14 Bafora: praf. 18 Go Into 22 -500 (race) 23 Fr. marshal 25 Cot 26 H.H. Munro 27 Always 28 Relative of a 
wimp 29 Loretta of 
"MASH" 30 Lodz native 31 Daughter of 
Eurytus 33 She loved Narcissus 35 Br. royal 
family 36 Poem 37 WWII 


command 42 Walked 46 March date 51 Lizards 43 "-are 47 Use a rink 52 Donkey 
children for a 48 Taxi adjunct 53 Uncivil second time" 49 Utilizes 54 "There ought (Arlstophanes) 50 -out to be -" 
44 Sour prefix (apportion) 55 Each 
Wednesday 
THIS END UP 
& 
-playing the ultimate in party music 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24 
Thursday 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 Cushing Auditorium 
------------...----,.._-·----...... ~---~ 
Sports
' 
page 16 Thursday, October 15, 1987 
---~-e-
I 
,I I' I Irish on the road again to face Air Force 
I 
I 
High-flying Falcons, wishbone attack
I I 
[ to challenge rugged ND defense 
I 
By RICK RIETBROCK Notre Dame is also facing a after a loss to Wyoming in theI Assistant Sports Editor team which has been nothing opener. Air Force is 3-1 in the but a pain in recent years. Con­Western Athletic ConferenceI COLORADO SPRINGS -The sistently frustrated by the and should contend for the con­
Notre Dame football team smaller Falcons' wishbone of­ference title.
I 
finds itself in a rather un­fense, Notre Dame has lost four The Irish are looking to play
~ 
familiar situation going into its of the last five contests in dis­much better this week after a
~ 
I game against 5-1 Air Force Sat­appointing fashion. loss, than they did last week urday -coming off a loss. In 1984, Air Force piled up after a week off.t 371 rushing yards and held 
The game will be televised Notre Dame, behind backup Notre Dame's offense by WGN and WNDU at 1 p.m. quarterback Scott Grooms, to South Bend time. 207 net yards in dominating the vs. 
How well the Irish (ranked Irish, 21-7. 11th in AP, 13th in UPO In Notre Dame's last trip to Air Force's defense respond to last week's loss to Falcon Stadium two years ago, Overall, the Irish are healthy Pittsburgh, and injuries to linebacker Terry Maki blocked on offense. Braxston Banks quarterback Terry Andrysiak a fourth-quarter field goal at­returned against Pittsburgh to and Corny Southall, is someth­tempt by John Carney and see considerable playing time ing Lou Holtz is as anxious as safety A.J. Scott ran 77 yards and score a touchdown. The anyone to find out. for the game-winning touch­problem is the injury that they 
"I wish I could tell you ex­down in a 21-15 Air Force win. do have is to Andrysiak, which actly where we're going to go Tim Brown's 95-yard kickoff means the offense may have to and what our reaction is going return for a touchdown make some major adjust­to be, but in all honesty I really propelled the Irish to a 31-3 rout ments. Holtz, however, is don't know," said the Irish in last year's contest, Notre trying to downplay the quarter­head coach. Dame's first win against the back question. 
"This is a very important Falcons since Gerry Faust's "It's not a quarterback race, The Observer 1 Robert Jones game for Notre Dame. I think first year as Head Coach. it's not a quarterback derby," how we react is going to be very This year, FJsher DeBerry
Anthony Johnson helps with pass protection against Pitt. Chris 

important to our football (31-lllifetime) has led the Fal­
see GAME, page 14Dallavo features the sophomore fullback below. 
team." cons to five consecutive wins 
Johnson turning heads in Irish offensive backfield 
By CHRIS DALLAVO do. I get as much satisfaction the special teams, but when the Last spring, Johnson was "I'd never been hit in the face Sports Writer out of a good block as a good opportunity presented itself, I moved back to his natural po­before, and I wanted to see run." wasn't going to let it slip by." sition, fullback. what it was like." 
In high school, Anthony Notre Dame running back That opportunity led him to "Anthony is better suited to On a more sane level, Johnson did it all. In college, he coach Jim Strong praises play in every game, start five, play fullback," notes Strong. Johnson holds Coach Holtz in will do even more. Johnson's ample athletic abili­and garner the most playing "He has tremendous vision as very high regard. 
At Adams High School in ties as well as his team­time of anyone in the freshman an inside runner. He has the "He is a tremendous coach. South Bend, Johnson lettered oriented play. class. Johnson left his mark by ability to bounce outside and He knows exactly what he is four times in soccer, was "Anthony Johnson has tre­carrying the ball 80 times for create a big gain. He also doing. I respect him both as a named to the all-state team in mendous running skills," 349 yards, scoring five TO's throws some very good coach and as a man." football and was an all­Strong says, "and his unselfish and finishing the year as the blocks." Johnson had his biggest game conference performer at three play in the backfield, despite a second leading Irish rusher for "I've learned to be a role against Purdue this year, positions -fullback, linebacker nagging ankle injury, has the season. player," adds Johnson. "We scoring three touchdowns. and placekicker -in his senior helped make us a good football With all of these accomplish­have a chance to do some great "We knew their tendencies, year. team." ments, what was his favorite things as a team, and I am and it was just a matter of ex­
Now, the 6-0, 216-pound soph­Johnson came into Notre part of the 1986 season? going to do whatever I can to ecution," he notes. "The omore is concentrating his ef­Dame and immediately made "My biggest thrill was prob­make sure we have a game to coaches did a great job prepar­forts on being the starting Irish an impact at tailback, a posi­ably running through the tun­play on January first." ing us." fullback, and getting spectacu­tion which he was somewhat nel for the first time," Johnson Johnson hopes to take out the lar results. unfamiliar with. says. "There is nothing like the Don't be misled by Anthony frustrations of Pitt on a very 
"I love to run the ball," notes "I didn't expect to play so feeling of running through Johnson's unselfish nature, be tough Air Force squad. Johnson, "but I want to contrib­much right away," Johnson there with your teammates and is a very tough person. How "We are going to emphasize ute in any way that I can. If adds, "but I was ready to help hearing 60,000 screaming tough? Last Spring, Johnson pounding them on every play. that means throwing a block on the team in any way that I people. The USC game was participated in the Bengal We really want to take it to someone, then that's what I'll could. I had hoped to play on pretty great, too." Bouts. Why? them." 
Rice finally in spotlight as Irish QB 
Tony Rice is still waiting. 
Believe it or not, his second-half performance against Pittsburgh this past Saturday has not offi­cially earned him the starting quarterback job in the absence of the injured Terry Andrysiak. Com­pared to last year, however, Rice is the last one you'll here complaining. 
"There are a lot of things I could have done better (in the 30-22loss to the Panthers)," said Rice, who was kept out of football last year under NCAA Proposition 48 because his standardized test scores failed to meet the minimum requirements. 
All he did against Pitt was lead the Irish to all their points in the game, and was one successful drive away from pulling out a tie in a game Notre Dame trailed by 27 poirits at halftime, when Andrysiak left the game with a broken right collar­bone. 
There were mistakes -like throwing the ball in the direction of Panther cornerback Gary Richard on a quick-out, which could have (and probably should have) cost the Irish another six. Like running out of bounds on the final drive without realizing that it was a fourth-down play. 

And like the first offensive play in the second half, when the sophomore showed his lack of game experience in an unusual way. 
"I was kind of scared," Rice said with a smile. "I got out of the huddle and lined up behind the guard instead of the center. So I guess I was kind of nervous at first." 
Marty Strasen 
Football Notebook 


The starting quarterback for Saturday's game at Air Force has not been decided upon, Holtz said at his weekly press conference Tuesday. He indicated that it's a three-man race between Rice, freshman Kent Graham and junior Pete Graham. 
"The biggest problems with a young quarter­back," Holtz explained, "are understanding the checkoffs and keeping out of the bad plays. Throw­ing the football and reading coverages takes time." 
Time is what Rice has been getting lots of on a daily basis. The 6-foot, 197-pounder is taking most of the snaps with the first team in practice, and that is not likely to change when the Notre Dame offense takes the field Saturday. 
"(Monday) Coach Holtz said 'Let's see the first team out there,' "Rice explained. "I keep on think­ing Terry's there. The first time, I'm just standing there. Everybpdy's saying, 'Tony, it's you.' So in I went." 
But being the starting quarterback for 11th­ranked Notre Dame doesn't erase the bad memories. As a freshman, Rice never felt further away from being a member of the team. In fact, he had trouble sticking around for a pep rally on at least one occasion. 
"I remember the first pep rally when we played Michigan," Rice said. "I walked in there and everybody was cheering. People asked, 'What's your name?' I told them and they would say, 'Oh, you're under Proposition 48.' 
"I just left. I didn't even stay for the pep rally. 
see RICE, page 10 





