Execution -page 7 

l 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Man·'s 
Soviets press 


CIA head nominee 

U.S. to accept arms offer 
withdraws: report 
Associated Press Associated Press committee Chairman David 
MOSCOW -State-run Soviet Boren. news media Sunday hailed WASHINGTON Robert Senate Minority Leader Bob Mikhail Gorbachev's offer to Gates has decided to withdraw Dole, R-Kan., said Sunday that rid Europe of superpower this week as President the Reagan administration will medium-range nuclear mis­Reagan's nominee for director decide early this week whether siles as a "historic chance" of the CIA, according to a pub­to withdraw the nomination. which the United States could lished report. not legitimately pass up. The decision, which was not Dole also said he didn't think l 
Gorbachev announced Satur­confirmed by White House and it would be a good idea for day that the Soviets were will­CIA spokesmen, came as Sen­Gates, the acting CIA director, 
ing to negotiate a separate ac­ate leaders warned that the to be "sort of held out there for cord with the United States on nomination was in trouble. five or six months" until spe­medium-range missiles in Gates reached the decision cial congressional committees Europe. The Kremlin had pre­"without much prodding," The conclude their investigations 
viously linked such an agree­Washington Post reported in into the Iran-Contra affair. 
ment to a demand that the Monday editions. The newspa­United States limit testing on per cited "well-informed ad­Speculation on Reagan's up­its Strategic Defense Initiative, ministration and congressional coming speech and any or "Star Wars." sources." changes the president might 
"There is the possibility in a However, White House order in the wake of last week's short time to free our common spokesman Albert Brashear release ·Of the Tower report European home from a said late Sunday, "Mr. Gates dominated discussion on signficant share of the nuclear is still the president's weekend television interview burden," Soviet journalist nominee." CIA spokeswoman shows. Tomas Kolesnichenko said on Kathy Pherson said, "He the television program "In­hasn't withdrawn as nominee, On NBC-TV's "Meet the ternational Panorama." and as far as we know he Press," Dole said he and other 
Broadcast media and the doesn't have any plans to do Republican leaders discussed Tass news agency also high­so." with Reagan last Thursday lighted statements from The Observer /Susy Hernandez No word of any such what the president should say foreign leaders backing the Sign of Peace withdrawal has reached the when he addresses the nation. 
new Soviet proposal. St. Mary's Class of 1989 celebrated the annual Sophomore Parents Senate Intelligence Commit­"Let the people know that it 
The media reaction, similar Weekend with a mass Saturday afternoon. The traditional liturgy, tee, which is reviewing the wasn't someone else out there to previous campaigns to mar­held at the Church of Loretto, was attended by more than 200 nomination, said David who made mistakes," Dole shal support for Kremlin posi­students and their parents. See story on page 3. Holliday, a spokesman for said he counseled Reagan. 
tions, was clearly designed to put pressure on the United States to respond quickly to the Soviet offer. 
Police raid ND Ave., E. Navarre parties 
Speculation arose that the new Soviet position is linked to By MARK PANKOWSKI not available, was arrested for entered the house before the inside the house and submit to Gorbachev's campaign for eco­News Editor resisting law enforcement, he raid, which occurred at about breathalyzer tests. Those un­
nomic and social reforms in the said. 1 a.m. They later left the party der 21 and registering a blood­Soviet Union and the need to Aided by undercover offi­The other raid occurred and notified uniformed police. alcohol level of .01 percent or 
trim defense spending so al­cers, police raided two off­around midnight at 121 E. Fourteen officers from the higher were given citations,locations can be increased for campus parties early Saturday Navarre St., Deitchley said. Indiana State Police, excise she said. other uses. morning, arresting one person Police cited one person for sell­police and South Bend Police Two beer kegs were located 
Why Gorbachev chose Satur­and citing 41 others. ing alcohol without a permit Department then raided the in the house's backyard, but day night to make the an­At a party at 823 Notre Dame and another for minor consum­party. both were empty at the time of 
nouncement was not immedi­Ave., police cited 39 people for ing alcohol. Approximately 70 people the raid, according to one of the ately clear. It came at a time underage drinking, said Sgt. Undercover officers partici­were at the party when it was students living at the house. when U.S. newspapers were Gregory Deitchley of the In­pated in both cases. raided, said witnesses. The beer was not sold at the 
preoccupied with reporting on diana State Excise Police. At the party on Notre Dame One person, whose naltle was A venue, plainclothes officers 
see SOVIETS, page 3 


Laxault: Renounce Iran initiative 
Jan. 27 State of the Union ad­TV's "This Week With DavidAssociated Press dress that "serious mistakes Brinkley," said he believes 
WASHINGTON -Former were made," but he has never Reagan, in approving the sale Sen. Paul Laxalt said Sunday conceded that the administra­of U.S. arms to Tehran, "had he doubts President Reagan is tion was seeking to trade arms convinced himself that selling ready to renounce the U.S. for hostages. arms to Iran was strikingly dif­arms-sale initiative with Iran, Senate Republican leader ferent from ransoming despite the Tower commis­Bob Dole of Kansas joined hostages." sion's condemnation of that Laxalt in publicly urging Former Sen. Edmund policy and Reagan's subse­Reagan to take full responsibil­Muskie, D-Maine, a member of quent replacement of White ity for the Iran-Contra affair the Tower commission, said in House Chief of Staff Donald when the president makes his a separate interview that the Regan. nationally broadcast speech, panel's members were ap­
Laxalt of Nevada, one of probably on Wednesday or palled at Reagan's inability to Reagan's closest,longtime po­Thursday. recall details of "significant oc­litical confidants, said that in Sharing Laxalt's view, Dole casions" in the Iran arms sale his address to the nation later said that Reagan must "if not affair. this week, Reagan should ad­apologize, get very close to it" mit "this was a flawed policy during his speech. Dole added, Baker's first day in the White . . . a trip that shouldn't have "I don't know if he'll do it or House West Wing will be on been taken .... I'd like to have not." Monday; two longtime aides to A paperback edition of the Tower Commission Report is being 


VOL. XXI, NO. 102 MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1987 


him do that, but I don't think Meanwhile, former Republi­Baker took part in a transition published by Bantum books in conjunction with The New York he's there in his own mind yet." can Sen. John Tower of Texas, meeting with representatives Times. A total of 500,000 copies will be distributed to bookstores Reagan acknowledged in his appearing with Laxalt on ABC-of Regan on Saturday. on Monday, and each will sell for $5.50. See story at left. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, March 2, 1987-page 2 
' 


In Brief 
Seven college students were trapped in a flooded cave in Iowa while exploring with a college recreation program. Police reached the cave 30 minutes after the first three cavers called the school, but two cavers died of the cold before they could be reached. Though they had permission to be in the cave, police said none were equipped to descend into the cavern, described as one of the deepest in Iowa. -Associated Press 
Dozens of skiers fell from heights of up to 130 feet when a damaged chair lift collapsed at the Pyrenees resort of Luz-Ardiden in France. Five were killed and 41 were seriously injured in the accident, whose cause was not clear. The chairlift was new and opened just two weeks ago. Associated Press 
Authors Stephen King and John Irving are reading some of their works to raise money for a little-known short-story writer, Andre Dubus, who was injured in a car accident. The series of five readings cost $200 apiece. Dubus' leg was amputated and the other shattered after he stopped to help another motorist in trouble. 
-Associated Press 
Four Notre Dame professors have received National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) fellow­ships for independent · study and five have received Fulbright awards. The NEH recipients for 1987-88 are Maureen Barry McCann Boulton, assistant professor of modern and classical languages; John Collins, professor of theology; Joann Della Neva, assistant professor of modern and classical languages, and Susan Youens, as­sistant professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. Dean Michael Loux of the College of Arts and Letters noted that faculty of the college have received 11 NEH fellowships in the last three years. The five faculty members receiving Fulbrights are Steven Bell, assistant professor of modern and classical languages; Donald Kommers, professor of law and of government and international relations; Scott Mainwaring, assistant professor of government and inter­national relations; Martin Murphy, assistant professor of anthropology; and Michael Zalkin, assistant professor of economics. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
$100 advance enrollment deposits are due March 4. All undergraduates who plan to enroll for the fall semester, 1987-88 must return the advance enrollment card along with the deposit to Student Accounts, 102 Administration Building or mailed through the U.S. Postal Service to Box T, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Do not use campus mail. A $20 late-fee will be charged if the card is not turned in by March 4. -The Observer 
.Weather 
The arbiter ofthe universe resigned today under speculation that he was di­rectly linked to droughts, floods and hur­ricanes that have killed millions. The move touched off winds and flurries today with a high near 40. An aide, who refused to give more details, promised 


sunny skies with a high in the mid 40s for tomorrow. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................ ·chris Donnelly Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Matt Guye Design Assistant . . . . .. . . . . . . Pete LaFleur 
Viewpoint Layout......... Melinda Murphy Typesetter . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton 
Accent Copy Editor .... Caroline Gillespie .......................................... Daniel Cahill 
Accent Layout ............... Sharon Emmite News Editor ............................ Jim Riley 
Typist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy Copy Editor ........................ Cathy Stacy 
ND Day Editor .............. Laurine Megna ............................................ Bud Luepke 
SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Sports Copy Editor ......... Rick Rietbrock 
Ad Design................... Mary C. Creadon Photographer ................ Susy Hernandez 
Tbe Obsener (USPS S99 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Oblen-tr is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tbe Oblen-er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblen-er is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The question: Is Iran-contra scandal tragedy or comedy? 
Somewhere in Hollywood the scriptwriters are working around the clock to copy down the latest twists and turns in the Iran-Contra arms scandal. Ronald Reagan, once president of the screen actor's guild, undoubtedly likes to see the movie industry prosper. 
It was the magic of the silver screen that first brought the Great Communicator to national prominence, establishing him with the reputa­tion, wealth, and friends with which to launch a political career. But now, much to his chagrin, the benefactor-patron relationship will be reversed and the movies will prosper at his expense. 
It is only a matter of time before the first books are written. Once these are published the films will be soon to follow. Certainly those with inside knowledge of Iran-Contra affair will com­mand handsome prices for their memoirs -this is perhaps the reason why Oliver North and John Poindexter have shrewdly held out on their testimony. When the first copies inevitably hit the street, the booksellers face the difficult deci­sion of where to shelve the work. Potentially it could fall under the subject of history, politics, war, adventure, romance, or melodrama ­anything but family entertainment. 
The Iran-Contra connection relies on the clas­sic formula for entertainment success. Not only do we have the involvement of high government officials in secret arms deals, covert para­military operations, numbered Swiss bank deposits, and an elaborate cover-up scheme but also millions in unaccounted cash, beautiful secretaries, and an unexplained suicide at­tempt. Add to this the mystique of travel to foreign lands, the looming Soviet threat in Central America (Amerika?), the sudden-death danger of international terrorism, and the deafening roar of the ongoing Iran-Iraq war and you have the perfect backdrop for all the excitement. What else could a James Bond film want? 
Whatever productions are eventually made from this Iran-Contra affair certainly will not need artificial embellishments in order to keep the audience awake. 
To thicken the plot even further, there is the animosity between Nancy and Chief of Staff Donald Regan. The backstabbing behind this scene is gossip waiting to be told. 

Jim Carroll 
Photography Editor 


Then of course there is the Gipper, who now maintains that it is possible that he forgot whe­ther or not he took sides in a major, interna­tional war. 
At this point it is uncertain whether the Iran­Contra scandal is a comedy or a tragedy. It could be either or both, and the fact that the audience does not know whether to laugh or cry is a hallmark of excellence in drama. 
On the one hand, everyone finds it humorous whenever a figure of authority and respect is made to look foolish or is revealed to be the buffoon that he really is. For some reason it is hilarious to see a leader slip on a banana peel, bump his head, or publicly forget the causes he swears to defend. 
On the other hand, it is tragedy to see an individual drown in his own confusion and mis­takes. In a greater sense there is also sorrow to see a nation become engrossed by its own shortcomings and allegations of wrongdoing. 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tQ qur Qfflces and start wQrklng Qn yqur newspaper. 
Tonight the Sophomore Literary Festival Presents: Celia Gilbert Author of Queen of Darkness and Bonfire and winner of the Emily Dickinson Award from the Poetry Society of America ~-­____/--...: ____ 8:00pm Ubrary Auditorium  


The Observer Monday, March 2, 1987-page 3 

Sophomore parents have weekend at SMC 
By PEGGY PROSSER Staff Reporter 
More than 200 members of the Saint Mary's Class of 1989 hosted their parents this past weekend at the College's an­nual Sophomore Parents Weekend. 
Most parents arrived Friday night and attended a talent show, held in the Angela Ath­letic Facility, to begin their weekend. 
Saturday afternoon the Col­lege hosted an Open House, also in Angela. Parents and stu­dents were greeted by College President William Hickey and College Vice-President Dorothy Feigl. The College's academic departments were represented by department chairmen and professors. 
A Sunday Liturgy was held Saturday afternoon in the Church of Loretto on the Saint l'.1ary's campus. 
Saturday night students were given the chance to try to out­dance their parents at the din­ner dance, held at the Century Center in South Bend. The eve­ning began with a cash bar, fol­lowed by a welcome-to-parents speech by sophomore Marisa Ley, chairperson of the event. 
The brunch held at the Col­lege dining hall Sunday con­cluded the weekend. 
Ley was assisted by a com­mittee, consisting of Kathleen 
Needham,  Michele  Kruze,  
Kelly  Glavin,  Janice  Terpin  
and Barbara Krugh.  








RONNIE MILSAP 
With Special Guest 
.--------, TUES., MARCH 24th-8 P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C,16.:~c:e,t;3•
50 
On Sale at ACC BOX OFFICE-Gate 10, SEARS (UP Mall & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH
CIIAIIIE IY PIIOIIE 
BANK (Main Office), NIGHlWINDS (No. 
(U. Ylu or M/C) VIJJ. Mall, 100 Ctr., Niles), JUST FOR tHE RECORD (TIC Shop. Clr.), ELKHART
(11.11_ .....,._) 
TRUTH, SUPER SOUNDS (Elkhart), J.R.'o 

T. GRAHAM BROWN 219/239-7356 ~:~n~~)(LaPorte), 
MUSIC MAGIC 

'Ofll MAIL ~-State no I Pflce of llcket8 deelred. Send check or money order pty.lble to N.D. Kenny Rogers Show IN 48558. YOU MUST 8dd $1 50 I'IC. , PIN' mall order. 

Fat Tuesday
Mardi Gras celebrants in New Orleans reach for trinkets being thrown during Saturday's parade. The festival hasn't been all fun, though. 

Security Beat 
Thursday 
1:05 p.m.-The rector of Grace Hall reported that during the night someone had kicked in the glass at the south door of the dorm. 
2:25p.m. -The vinyl roof of a vehicle parked in the D-6lot was reported slashed. This hap­pened sometime Feb. 22 be­tween 1 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
3:35p.m.-A student reported two calculators werer taken from a room in Cushing Hall. 
7:30p.m.-An off-campus res­ident reported that his bookbag was taken from the lobby of the South Dining Hall during lunch. Value of the property was esti­mated to be approximately $180. 
Friday 
3:15p.m.-A student reported a bookbag had been taken during lunch at the South Dining Hall lobby. Later, the student returned to the dining hall and found that the bookbag had been returned. However, a textbook was missing. The book was valued at $22. 
4:35p.m. -A resident of Mor­rissey Hall reported that a type­writer valued at $150 was taken from his unlocked room on Wed­nesday night. 
5:35 p.m. -A professor re­ported that money had been taken from her purse while it was in her desk in the Law School. 
7:20p.m. -Two juveniles were apprehended by Security after it was reported that the juveniles had attempted to take a fire extin~isher from Cus­hing. The Juveniles' parents were notified, and the case has been referred to the prosecutor. 
10:50 p.m.-Keenan Hall resi­dents reported that two suspects had taken a CD player from the dorm. The suspects were later apprehended after being in­volved in a traffic accident in Michigan. The CD player and other property taken from Keenan, valued at approxi­mately $300, were recovered. 
Saturday 

3:57 a.m. -Three subjects were seen breaking a stairwell 
: 

window in Dillon Hall. One of the subjects was cut during the incident and had to be transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center. The investiga­tion is continuing. 
8:40a.m.-A student reported that a radio cassette player was stolen from a vehicle parked in the D-2 lot. The theft occurred between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m. 
8:55p.m.-A Keenan Hall res­ident reported that the tele­phone was stolen from his room. The phone is valued at $65. 
Sunday 
10:00 a.m. -Security officers recovered a stolen car which had been used in a bank robbery in Michigan last week. The car was impounded and turned over to St. Joseph County Police to be returned to the owner. 
11: 15 a.m. -A student's bro­ther reported damage to his car while it was parked in the A-10 parking lot. The damage, ap­parently caused by another car, happened sometime between 7 
p.m. Saturday and 11 a.m. Sun­day. 
GO FROMCOLLEGETOTHE ARMY WITHOUTMISSING A BEAt 

The hardest thing about break­
ing into professional 
music is-well, break­
.ng intoprofessional 
music. So if you're 
kx)king for an oppor­
tunity to turn your 
musical talent into full-time perform­
ing career, take a X)d look at the of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first-rate pro­fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help you pay for off­
duty instruc­
tion, and if you qual­ify, even 

help you repay your federally -insured student loans. :-:··· Ifyou can sight­
read music, performing in the could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005 . Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY 
ARMY BAND. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 


Soviets 
continuedfrom page 1 
the Tower commission's inves­tigation of U.S. arms sales to Iran, and it came too late for most European papers to com­ment in Sunday editions. 
The new Soviet position seemed sure to win support in Western Europe, where oppo­sition to nuclear weapons is widespread. 
Gorbachev has met with of­ficials from several NATO countries in recent months to discuss European security, the latest being Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Andreotti on Friday. 
The governments of West Germany, Denmark and Bel­gium on Sunday welcomed the Soviet offer. Britain, France, the Netherlands and Italy said they needed more time to study it. 
In Geneva, U.S. officals said they believed the Soviets made the new offer in hopes it would increase Western European op­position to the so-called "broad interpretation" of the 1972 anti­ballistic missile treaty. 
The Observer Monday, March 2, 1987 -page 4 
Elderly man kills three others then turns gun on himself 
Associated Press daughter, and then seemed to 
fire at random targets, fatally 

LOS ANGELES -A man who wounding a 91-year-old neigh­had accused his wife of setting bor and another woman. up a $7,000 burglary grabbed a A witness, Robert revolver after an argument Livingston, said he tried to help and fatally shot two neighbors Smith's stepdaughter, 45-year­and his stepdaughter before old Linda Downard, while she killing himself, said neighbors was lying on the ground. and police. "He told me to get away from 
her," said Livingston, who was 

Ed Smith, 83, had been ar­not injured. "I didn't think he guing with his 80-year-old wife, was doing the shooting, I Ann, in their home for hours thought there was something Saturday before he armed him­wrong. He pointed the gun up, self and began shooting, said I ducked, and he fired." Detective Steve Morgan. "He went back to the house, 
"During the course of the dis­reloaded his gun and again shot pute, she decided to move out the daughter, who was still in and called relatives to help," the street, then went to the rear said Lt. Charles Massey. The yard of the (neighbor's) shooting began after Mrs. house," Morgan said. Smith left the couple's small, When he realized police were white clapboard house, and coming, Smith shot himself in walked to the rear of a neigh­the chest. He was pronounced bor's home. dead at the scene, Morgan said. 
Smith fired 10 to 12 times, Downard died Saturday af­police said. He fired at and ternoon in surgery in California missed his wife. shot his step-Medical Center. 
Summer 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

eVERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 

"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 

Theology 
at tire Universiiy ofNotre /Jam£ 


Consider a major in Theology or Theology as a second major 


Come and discuss the possibilities on Tuesday, Marr:h 3 7:00-8:00 p.m. Room, 341 O'Shaughnessy 

The first four Beatles compact discs hit the sales of CDs, the Beatles may find themselves market Thursday morning. With the growing in more homes (or dorms) than ever. 
VOCATION RETREAT 

~~::;......,:.z.-=--...--.....;€=-....,_. to h€1pyou col15idfr ~.ligi ou6 IifE. 
a5 a !il5t~r, pri~6t, or brotfttt"' in thE. Con~ rE-g ation of -H o~ Cros.s ~~L.L......::-..1&.~ ~r'ldayf March J.7, 7pJtL-'Saturday,ftarch»,5'P" ~-&-..:r:=::IL.....&:I--.....;:!-"""' /1ary~ Solitude frayer Ctnter1 st. Mary~ 
Ifyou're in the marketfor an advertising and sales career 
Go "'ith a leader! 

Meet Chicago Tribune Recruitment Representatives at an informal reception Thesday, March 3, 7-9 p.m., Upper Lounge, Notre Dame University Club. They will be there to meet prospective recruits and discuss advertising sales career opportunities with the Chicago Tribune. 
The Chicago Tribune, the dominant voice of the Midwest, is among the top ten newspapers in America. 
A Chicago Tribune salesperson's career is fast-paced, high-powered, and filled with challenges. The opportunities for personal and professional growth, rewards, and recognition within the company are unlimited. 
Take the first step in your advertising career. 
Come to the Chicago Tribune informal recruitment reception at your placement center. 
<fhirago Oribunc 
A grPat rit,ll dP.'U~IP.'i fl grrol m"U'S/HIJWt: 
-----~------~-­
The Observer Monday, March 2, 1987-page 5 


Tornado victims clean up after storm leaves 8 dead 
Associated Press 
LAUREL, Miss. -Resi­dents and cleanup crews worked under a sunny sky Sunday to recover belong­ings and clear up wreckage from a tornado that left eight people dead, nearly 500 families homeless and mil­lions of dollars in damage. 
"Everybody is tired, but things are looking up," said Carl Carlos, Jones County Civil Defense director. "It's just a matter of cleanup and get back on our feet now." 
The tornado left at least 145 people injured as it cut a 20-mile-long, 2-mile-wide path of destruction across mostly rural Jones County in southeastern Mississippi on Saturday morning. 
Some residents camped out overnight at bonfires be­side the piles of splintered lumber and brick that had been their homes, and the National Guard blocked off 15 roads and highways. 
"It probably caused more damage in one county than I've ever seen," said Gov. Bill Allain. 

Sisters Office Services 
TYPING 

**Term Papers** Reports Resume Preparation 
Grammar and Spelling Corrected 282-8593 425 N. Michigan Suite 202 South Bend, IN 46601 
Special Rates For Students 
9 cities prepare for Pope's U.S. trip 
Associated Press 
One of the hottest tickets in the country this year is a seat at one of the masses which Pope John Paul II will celebrate in September. 
Though stadiums may be full, they won't be sold out -the tickets are free. Local church officials are depending on the generosity of Roman Catholics and corporations to defray mil­lions of dollars in expenses for the 10-day, nine-city visit. 
"There are more than a mil­lion Catholics in this diocese. I am sure we will be able to come up with the money," said the Rev. Jose Nickse, the spokes­man for the Archdiocese of Miami·, where the costs are es­timated at up to $2 million. 
There was more trepidation in San Francisco, where the pope's two-day visit is an­ticipated to cost $4 million. 
"When you have a special collection in an archdiocese like ours, $50,000 would be a big collection. That's a little piece of a million dollars," said the Rev. Miles Riley, spokesman for the San Francisco Archdiocese. 
"But it really is very little money for the impact of the visit," he added. "It's $2 billion worth of publicity alone." 
The pope's tentative schedule begins in Miami on Sept. 10, then on to Columbia, S.C., New Orleans, San An­tonio, Texas, Phoenix, Los An­geles, Monterey, Calif., San Francisco and Detroit. The pope departs for Rome on Sept. 19. 
Arrangements are being made now for security, media coverage and hotel rooms in the cities. Half a year before the pope's second extended visit to this country, the church 


From: pc,hb,mg,tc,ut,as or vm,md & np 

Cheer Up 
NUGGETS 
You're 211 
is already saying "no" to some 
demands for tickets or a few 
minutes of the pontiff's time. 
The diocese has 295,000 mem­
bers and 76,000 seats for a mass 
at Sun Devil Stadium. Rather 
than sell tickets, the diocese 
hopes to raise nearly $1 million, 
plus $300,000 to spruce up St. 
Mary's Basilica, through 
private and corporate dona­
tions, and by a special collec­
tion in every parish church this 
month. 
Diocesan officials in San An­
tonio reported raising about 
$500,000 of the required $2.5 
million. "We're right on tar­
get," said Bishop Charles V. 
Grahmann of Victoria. 
Financing is a particular pinch for the small diocese of Monterey, which is trying tc raise $2 million. The diocese had proposed seeking bids for rights to televise the pope's visit, but backed down last month after broadcasters protested. 
"We appreciate the prob­lems they have, but you can't sell rights to the pope's visit as if it were the Super Bowl," said Dick Little, news director of KSCO radio in Santa Cruz. 
Parties 
continuedfrom page 1 
party, and no one checked stu­dents' identification cards at the door; 
The students living at the house said the party was not breaking the city's noise or­dinance. 
"It was really quiet," he said. "It was the smallest party 
we've ever had." 

Juniors,Seniors.&Grads••• 

SOME CREDIT! 

·Just bring a copy of your schooii.D. 
•No cosigner required APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS! 
Date: March 2-6 
Time: 10 am -4 pm 

Place: LaFortune Student Center 
CITIBAN<O® 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS------.....
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
l--------------~~-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
; Reg.$8 ~~ ~ 
t----------------~--1
:$5OFF ANY PERM : 
I ~~I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
famly haircutters "University Park Mall" 277-3770 

\Tie\Y~_O_i_D_t____________M_onday~,Mar-ch2,_1oo7--page6 
Hope for recovery lies with ring in the Grotto 
I think that what has happened to me last weekend will remain very close to me, no matter how old, or how far away I find myself from these past few days, or this place. 
Coni Rich 
guest column 
My mother did not come to South Bend last weekend because she has cancer and is currently fighting through chemotherapy treatments. The doctors felt that she would greatly jeopardize her already fragile health if she were to come in contact with large crowds, or if she were to become too tired from the long trip from Phoenix. She stayed at home with my sister Chrissy, and Dad made the decision that he would come and share the weekend with me instead of sending a favorite aunt and uncle or close friends. 
My dad and I enjoyed our time to­gether, although I was really worried by the amount of fatigue and sadness I saw in his eyes when my neighbor and I picked him up from the bus stop on Friday afternoon. He tried so hard to smile and laugh at my frustration at being late, but I just couldn't help but feel that this was going to be one of the most emotionally involved and ex­hausting weekends of our lives. 
'The ring on my father's hand was much more than just a symbol -it was everything my dad represented to me.' 
Like all of my other classmates, my dati and I attended every event. We were amazed at the huge crowds at the Friday night cocktail dance, and we were more than a little tired when we finally found a place tosit down. It was as the evening was drawing to a close that we ran into a good friend and his parents, and my dad pulled Dan aside and asked him if he would do a special favor for him. Dan is the "Grotto Keeper" (as I call him), and I thought that Dad might have a question about the Grotto, or maybe even a small con­tribution that he might like to make toward its upkeep. The Grotto has al­ways been my dad's favorite place to visit-it is the first place he goes to and 
Doonesbury 
the last place he leaves every time he is at Notre Dame, and I can still re­member when he told me to visit the Grotto every day. 
I might help my story here if I explain a little about my father. Dad is one of those people that has a way of entering your thoughts and staying there without you even knowing it-you find yourself thinking like him and not realizing where you've heard the words before. He came to Notre Dame in 1950 and then graduated in 1954 after four years of incredible study and hard work to pay his tuition. His father died when he was eleven years old, leaving him the only man in a family which consisted of Grandma, Aunt Lou, and Dad. His father never went to college, so Dad's only notion of Notre Dame came from a man who saw this university as the only one in America. Dad told us a story at the President's dinner about when he was little and he and his dad would go to the barber shop on Saturday mornings. They would listen to Notre Dame football on the radio, and all of the older men would place their bets on the day's winner. My Grandpa always chose Notre Dame, and he would tell my dad that someday he was going to send him to Notre Dame to make a lawyer out of him. 
Obviously, Dad's dream and his fa­ther's dream came true, and he became a part of the Notre Dame family that they had both come to love and respect. My dad received his class ring his senior year, and he constantly reminds me that when he was here, only seniors were given the honor of wearing that special symbol. This ring was more than a special symbol in my family. I can remember tracing my hand in kin­dergarten and proudly drawing a ring on the fourth finger of the right hand, but it never quite looked like I wanted it to. When my teacher would ask me what the ring meant, I would tell her that my dad wore a ring that was from a really neat place called Notre Dame, and that someday I was going to have one just like it. The ring on my father's hand was much more than just a sym­bol -it was everything my dad represented to me. When I put my little hand on his, I could feel the heaviness of it against my fingers, and when he talked and motioned with his hands, the ring was always there. He never took it off, and the ring itself was practically worn smooth on the sides from thirty­two years of wear. 
When my dad left me this afternoon to go back home, the ring wasn't on his finger. Earlier today, he asked me if we could make another trip to the Grot­to, and as we were standing there he took it off of his hand and placed it in mine. I knew then what the sadness was in his eyes. Yes, he was very sentimen­tal this weekend, and yes he shed more than a few tears after hearing Father Hesburgh's last address to to the Junior Parents Weekend crowd. 
My dad gave this ring to me today, and he asked me to place it at the feet of the Blessed Virgin with Dan's help as soon as I could. Of course I was stunned.-Just seeing that ring in my hand and not on his finger was enough to make me realize that there was something wrong. I held if for the longest time, just looking at it and thinking to myself that I was hopeless. There was no way I could fix whatever was wrong. He hugged me, and we walked to the car, and many people that we passed smiled sympathetically to themselves thinking that here was a poor junior having to say good-bye to her father after a lovely weekend. 
My mom may not live very much longer. She has colon cancer, which has spread to the liver. Since October, when I found out about her illness, I have ignored it and pretended that nothing was wrong, and that the next time I went home my mom's hair would be back and she wouldn't be sick anymore. Today I found out that this dream is just that -an alcove in the Grotto. My dad told me today that he has always tried to devote his life to her, and that by placing his ring at her feet he was asking in the most profound way for a gift of a miracle. That ring was and is my dad. It represents all that I have come to believe in as a member of this thing called Notre Dame. It means all that Father Hesburgh talked about last weekend in his speech -a devotion to God and man, a sense of responsibility in society, and a spiritual oneness that comes from being under the protection of that golden statue on top of the dome. Dad calls the Grotto his anchor point in life, and by placing himself there in the form of that ring, he gave himself totally up to the faith that he has nur­tured not only in himself, but in me as well. 
This place is special. I complain and hate it sometimes just as much if not more than most of the people here. But I can't deny the fact that a man like my dad found this place important enough to devote his life and love to its precepts. 
Dad will wear his ring again some­day. He asked that it be kept there at the Grotto until the day I graduate, when my mom will come home and get it for him. Just knowing that he believes that she will be here for that day is strength enough for me to go and put it where someday it can be found again. 
Coni Rich is a junior in the Program of Liberal Studies. 

Quote of the day 
"It's spring fever -you don't quite know what it is you want, but it just fairly makes your heart ache, you want it so." 
Mark Twain (1835-1910) 
Garry Trudeau 
ATTENTION! I)OE.S AN>ONE 
HAVE ANYINS/IJ£3 INFORMA­TION H£.'5 NOTUSING~ 
\ GOSH, aAY, 7HJrr's 
/~.
""' 

11&'51/NA/?81­WAGtR,ANlJ 
116HA511T~ 
H/5 FIRSTMlt.­
/,/ON~ IUHAT'5 
THEMATT&R 
iiiiTHHIM~ 
\ 

Hc'9 KINlJOFA 5T/?A/GHTIW<tJJI/, 
511?. ATL£.457 HetuA5 fJiifOI?t ITGOT{)()IJJN 
TO THe IUII?e. 
\ 
General Board 
The ObserYer 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Production Manager ............................. Melissa Warnke of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Production Manager ........................... Mark Mclaughlin of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. News Editor .... ~ ..................................... Mark Pankowski Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Welmholt opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1988 
Accent 
Monday, March 2, 1987 -page 7 

Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Mark time. Felicia's theory that Kay agreed to go for long-term was blackmailing the doctors help. Erica got Travis to agree seemed to be correct. Com· to talk to her about her design lng: Anna and Duke have to 
business. Natalie and Ross deal with a completely "new"
A 
re you an arts and letters bad note. The Interview begins: BCG: "Yeah, right. What kind made love in the hay In the Camellia.
maJor? Do you ever get the Big corporation guy: "So Mr. of extracurricular activities are FEAR? Whaddya mean what Murphy, what makes you think you involved In?" 
stable. Phoebe planned a GUIDING LIGHT: Christine party for her godchild, Cecily. fretted that Johnny was
fear? You know, the fear of not you'd like to work for our com­Me: "I work for the student Matt saved Robin from being growing more distant. Tina
being able to get a job, the pany?" paper." fear of having no future, no Me: "Well I have this intense BCG: "As an editor or 
raped. Coming: Erica learns continued to show her streak money, no hope? Do you ever fear of poverty, you know, not reporter?" 
something new about Travis. of Independence, much to Al­
ANOTHER WORLD: Michael ien's displeasure. Rusty grew Me: "No. Actually I work Infeel like that? Do you ever look being able to eat or something 
escaped and together with Impatient with the progress of the Accent department where I at your engineer and business dumb like that. I really have no 
Delaney and the Coast Guard, the Investigation. Fletcher had write semi-witty, semi-illiterate 
rescued Donna. Nicole told a surprise for Josh. Coming: columns about student life and 
Reginald she could never Josh agonizes over when Reva 
KrlsMurphy 
the zany things that happen to 
think of him as her father might safely return. ordinary folks In everyday life. 
again. Vince was cleared and KNOTS LANDING: LauraAltered I'd really love to be a writer 
Mary cut ties with Reginald. reconsidered the wisdom of someday." 
Scott asked Reginald to tell having Anne living in the Cui­him who his parents really de-sac home after Karenfriends and realize that they Interest whatsoever In your BCG: "The only thing you're are. Coming: Lisa's premoni­began showing how upset shehave stable futures and that company, I just need a job." going to be writing is un­tions begin to come true. was. Peter was still unsure ofyou might be wasting your par­BCG: "Oh, I see. Well what employment forms." 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: how to act in the face of the
ents' hard earned bucks? kind of business experience do Me: "Thank you sir, that Well I feel that way some­you have? Have you ever had a means a lot coming from you. 
Lucinda's growing suspicions rumors about Greg. Coming : about James led her Into a Val takes a dangerous risk.
times and It scares me, OK? I summer Internship with a As an ancient Arabian wise dangerous situation. Meg's LOVING: Steve told Cecilia
know It's not really like that. major corporation?" man once said, 'May a doubts about her abilities that he Intended to be with threatened her career. Trisha no matter what she did Sabrina's well-being was In to try to stop him. Harry ac­doubt as the days passed. cused Gwyneth of seeking Coming: John starts to show him out because she had no strange reactions. one else in her bed now. Ava CAPITOL: Trey felt over­was drawn to Tony. Jim was whelmed by the news about upset to learn Shana was Laureen and Angelica's past. taking birth control pills. Myrna tried to patch up her Coming: Clay makes a move rapidly shredding life. Kelly that Nick sees as a threat. prepared herself for a crucial ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Maria decision. Coming: Sloane has panicked when she thought a surprise for All. Max would learn the truth DALLAS: Cliff was ecstatic about the doings at the ranch. after dropping his bombshell Cord went to Argentina to try and JR accused Pam of to get Tina to come home and 
scheming with her brother to have their baby. Max was fal­ruin Ewing Oil. Ray arrived at ling In love with Tina. Tom a painful decision about the risked his newjob with Dorian custody battle for the child to Insist on going to New York Donna was carrying. The B.D. with Vickie for medical atten­Calhoun affair continued to tion. Coming: Jamie makes a 
gnaw atJR. Coming: Miss Ellie call that puts Tina's life into acts to save the family. jeopardy again. DAYS Of OUR LIVES: Patch RYAN'S HOPE: John told 
was furious to flnd his father Lizzie he really cares for her. In his mother's room. Shane Dee and Roger looked at her learned that someone made apartment they could share. a round trip from Dallas to Evan told Pat that Melinda's Salem on New Year's Eve and herb preparations are thought it might have been placebos. Johnny was upset 
I'm getting a broad education. Me: "Uh...I once sold candy thousand camels relieve them­Barbara using an alias. about Joe coming back Into I'm learning about life, I'm for my Little League team. Let's selves on your lawn.' " Frankie started tutoring Jen­Slobhan's life. Coming: Rick learning how to communicate, see here, summer jobs. . . I BCG: "Look kid, I've got your nifer in math. Shane recog­decides to try to change his I'm learning how to rationallzel washed dishes at an Italian res­future in my hands. Don't say nized Andrew from the picture marriage. I think I'll crawl Into a corner taurant. I mowed lawns one anything you might regret." Paul showed him of Teddy. SANTA BARBARA: A over here and have an acute summer. Uh...my uncle Is a Me (singing): " 'He's got the Coming: Justin does some drunken Gina berated Mason anxiety attack while you guys banker?" whole world In his hands, he's soul searching. for wanting to marry Tori. A check out a recurring BCG: "That's all the business got the whole wide world In his FALCON CREST: Richard drunken Brick accused Hayley nightmare I have. It's called, experience you have?" hands.. .'" learned of a link between Kit of killing Amy. Hayley was "THE JOB INTERVIEW." Me: "Well, yeah. That's not BCG: "Last chance kid. Tell Marlowe and Roland Saun­later attacked and dragged off 
You walk Into a small room. going to hurt my chances or me about some of your other ders. Angela gave Vickie a rea­into the shadows. Jeffrey was It Is painted blue and there are anything is It?" Interests." son to be proud of her an­wounded when the pollee no windows. A man In a grey BCG: "It might. What major Me: "I like beer and I like cestry. Emma married Karlottl came to arrest Kelly. Coming: pinstripe suit and one of those are you anyway?" women. I get along better with secretly so that she could have Gina's bluff is called. yellow "power ties" sits behind Me: "Well, I'm a PLS major In beer than most women but a child with him. Chase took THE YOUNG & THE REST· a desk which is the only piece the Arts and Letters program." who doesn't right? Ha Ha. Ha . steps to stop the Tuscany LESS: John was overwhelmed 
of furniture present. He BCG: "Oh...that's nice. What ..uh...That was a joke but Land Corp, from buying up when Ashley showed she represents a "MAJOR CORPO­practical business experience you're not laughing." the valley. Coming: Peter gets recognized him. Philip pon RATION" and they are here for have you had in that pro­BCG: "Look kid, don't call us, misleading information about dered his mixed feelings "ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS." gram?" we'll call you.'' Kit. about Kay. Victor realized he 
You walk In, dressed up and Me: "I know the Iliad and the Me: "Do you promise? Cross 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: had to change his behavior feeling like you're going to Odyssey inside and out. I can your heart and hope to get 
Camellia lied to Janet about with Nikki now that she was your own execution. The man quote big chunks of Keats' audited?" 
her reasons for giving up her on to the truth about her stands up and shakes your poetry and I can expound on BCG: "Take a walk kid." 
vocation as a nun. Frisco medical condition. Coming: hand. His grip Is at least four the philosophy of Heidegger Me: "Someday you'll regret 
suspected Hilary was involved Christian has a new surprise times stronger than yours. He and Nletschze for up to...uh.. not hiring me. I'll be famous 
in the crime ring. Patrick and for Jill. is trying to break every bone in . five pages or 2000 words, and successful and they'll fire 
Terry made love for the flrst 1987, McNaught Syndicate 
your hand. You wince and say, whichever comes first. I've you when they find out that "Blugga shlfff unt looie." You made frequent trips to the you r~ected me. I have impor­meant to say, "HI I'm really Snite Museum and I dig F. tant friends in the Englsh de­
Correction
glad to be here, talking to you Scott Fitzgerald. I believe that partment and they'll be really and your huge multi-million Liberal Arts afford me a broad angry. Look I'll give you one 
The photo of the play "The Bombardier. dollar corporation. Please don't education and a future with more chance to hire me at 
Fifth Sun" which appeared in In a story on campus bands squash me like a grape." plenty of options." 100,000 a year and then my 
a review Feb. 26 was credited which appeared Feb. 27 the You blew It though and BCG: "You're kidding right?" price doubles. I'm serious 
incorrectly. The photo was band Monarch was incorrectly started the whole thing off on a Me: "Well, It was worth a try." about this. . . " 
taken by Brother Martlnus labeled heavy metal. 


r The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
Bengal Bouts tickets are available at Gate 10 of the ACC. Prices for the semifinals and finals are $2. -The Observer 
The ND rugby club will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7: 30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all interested in playing this semester. No experience re­quired. For more information contact Quentin (287-5903) or Oakie (1170). -The Observer 
The Heart Lights 5k run is set for Thursday at 3:30p.m. Prizes wil1 be awarded in men's, women's and dorm divisions. Advance entries are available at NVA. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the NVA office. Participants should wear shorts and a t-shirt. The free test will be given on a first­come, first serve basis. -The Observer 
Monday, March 2, 1987-page 8 

Irish try for 20th victory tonight 
By BOB KEMPER 
Sports Writer 
A sign in the Notre Dame locker room outlines what must be done to win 20 games. The Irish will attempt to reach that perennial milestone when they square off against Brooklyn College tonight at at 7:30 in the ACC. 
If successful, it will be Notre Dame's fourth straight 20­victory season, the nth of Dig­ger Phelps' 16 seasons with the Irish, and the 24th in Notre Dame's history. The Kingsmen, who gained Divi­sion I status in 1982, stand at 10-15 going into the contest, which is the first ever meeting between the two schools. 
"Brooklyn will come in here with the idea of making its season by beating us," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "They have played a lot of tough road games already this year, so that aspect shouldn't bother them. This is one of those games where you don't have much time to prepare, so we just have to come out and play hard and concentrate, especially early in the game." 
The only returning starter for Head Coach Mark Reiner is 6-7 senior Keith Grady who is averaging 18.5 points and 6.5 rebounds per contest. Other probable starters include 6-6 junior transfer Frank Gregov 
(16.1 pts., 8.2 rebs.), 6-7 junior transfer Adam Weinstein (8.0 pts., 5.0 rebs.), 5-11 freshman Spious Kilpatrick (10 pts., 2.3 rebs.), and 5-11 junior transfer Jeff Petway (7.4 pts., 2.2 rebs.). 
The Irish will be looking for their seventh consecutive vic­tory as they head toward the NCAA tournament. They can­not afford a lapse of any sort as momentum is a vital in­gredient in tournament play. 
"I like the way we are playing right now and I like the confidence we've developed," said Phelps. "We're playing with a lot of consistency, and I think our players know what they can do in every different situation. Right now, we just want to be in a groove as we wind down the last week of the regular season." 

1be Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-{lay classifieds is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 Lowest Scheduled Fares to all of Europe from Chicago. Call 1 (800) 325-2222. 
Wordprocessing·Typing 272-8827 
Typing Free Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
DEMAND DIRCUS LUNCHIII 
Like traditional Chinese paintings? Real art! Call 277-9649 7-1 1pm. 
BREAK THE WINTER BLUES I DAYTONA BEACH $229 PANAMA CITY $188 FLORIDA FOR SPRING BREAKI TIM x1150 BEST DEAL AROUNDI 
TURTLE CREEK APTS RESERVA­TIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED. CLOSE TO CAMPUS FRNSHD. STUDIOS 1 ,2,& 2 BR TWNHSES. 272­8124 
LOST/FOUND 
found: gold Benrus quartz watch cbntact lost and found La Fortune 
lost: EEL SKIN WALLET; single-fold, brownlit's the wallet that I am really con· earned about. What was in it can be replaced. Possibly lost in engineering auditorium, or south dining hall on Sat· urday alter 6:00 p.m.. Please contact John Eustermann at 283·106611 
Lost: 2 rings, SMC Class ring and Ruby ring and one Seiko watch, lady's two tone. Lost in the ACC field house on 2-22. Extreme sentimental value. II found please call Dena at 284-5209. REWARD 
LOST--LOSTII GOLD ROLEX WATCH and HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RiNG, pos· sibly at the Miami Room in LaFortune, or in Flenner Hall. Reward lor retum-­Piease call Eric 1078. Lost around 13 February. 
Found: Love letter written by Maggie to Patrick. Found on shuttle . Interesting reading. II either of you want this letter, please call 2129. Ask lor Kevin Barry. It's good to know that Maggie is finally maturing. 
LOST: White K-Swiss tennis shoes, at the ACC. Please call 4645. 
GREEN & GOLD '87 WOMEN'S CLASS RING FOUND TUES. 1 PM IN 2ND FL. O'SHAG WOMEN'S BATHROOM. CALL KATY £1319 TO IDENTIFY INITIALS. 
LOST: BLUE BLAZER. LOOKS THE EX­ACTLY THE SAME AS EVERY OTHER DOMER BLUE BLAZER EXCEPT IT IS MINE AND I'D APPRECIATE IT IF I COULD GET IT BACK. HAS INITIALS 
J.F.W. ON INNER POCKET AND A SET OF KEYS IN THE OUTER POCKET. LOST AT SWIM TEAM FORMAL ON ST. LOUIS ST., SAT. FEB 14. IF YOU HAVE IT AND WOULD LIKE TO RETURN IT CALL WAD AT 4639 OR DROP IT OFF AT ROLF'S. 
LOST: TAKEN FROM BRIDGET'S WED· NESDAY NIGHT-AN AQUA GREEN SKI JACKET WITH GLASSES AND BAS· KETBALL TICKETS INSIDE. ALSO TAKEN WAS A GREY JACKET WITH A MAROON AND NAVY STRIPE. 1.0., KEYS, AND BASKETBALL TICKETS WERE INSIDE THIS COAT. NAMES WERE ON COLLARS OF THE COATS. PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 283-1225 TO RETURN. 
LOST: Benrus quartz watch. Please call Jeannine at £2646 if found. 
LOST: Gray Tweed Hat left in South Dining Hall (Lelt,Lelt) Sunday night of North Carolina Game I'd really like to get this hat back II you know where it is or picked It up please bring it to campus Lost and Found or leave it at 1 109 Grace ·Thanks 
............................................................... 
I LOST SOMETHING AT BRIDGET'S 
TUESDAY (2-24) NIGHT I lost 2 jackets. One was Inside the other. On the outside waa a jean-jacket with plaid lining. On the Inside was a beige Field & Stream jacket. If found please call Mike x3402. 
FOR RENT 
4BR AVAILABLE NEXT FALL SEMI· FURNISHED $440.0Gmon. SAFE,CONVENIENT LOCATION, CALL GEOFF, 288· 7276. 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287·8389 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 255·3684288-0955 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACH LUX. FURNISHED OCEAN FRONT CONDO SLEEPS 4 ·POOL -$500 MAR 14 -21 CONTACT MICHELLE £1259 
2 BEDQ BATitNEWFURNISHEOCPTMBCY RENT OR SUMMER SUBLET CALL BILL 232-7416 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS ... Summer, yr.round.Europe, S.Amer.,Australia, Asia. ALl fields. $900-2000 mo.Sightseeing.Free inlo.Write IJC, PO BX 52-IN4 Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
NEED TO BUY MACINTOSH COMPUTER, PRINTER & SOFTWARE. CALL RON AT 233-7722 OR 239-4478. 
GOVERNMENT JOBSI Now hiring in your area, both skilled and unskilled. For list of jobe and application, Call (615) 383·2627 Ext J316. 
NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE AREA FOR SB PAUL 2364 
SO MAYBE CONNECTICUT ISN'T THE PLACE TO BE FOR SRING BREAK I STILL NEED A RIDE, SO IF YOU'RE HEADED TO 3 FAIRFIELD OR WESTCHESTER COUNTY, HELP ME OUT. TOM £1945 
I NEED RIDES TOFROM MIDWAY AIR­PORT I need to arrive at Midway by 9:30 pm on Frl. Mar. 13 and I need a ride back to NO from Midway on Mon. Mar. 23. lcould leave the airport anytime alter 6:00 am. CALL PAUL £2287. 

NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR BREAK! IF YOU HAVE ROOM FOR A RIDER PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 2939. 
HOWDY DOODY'S On US 33 One block north of the stateline is now accepting applications lor part­time waitresses, waiters and bartenders. Apply in person between 2 p.m. and 6 
p.m. Monday through Saturday. 
Need ride to Ohio State on March 6. Will pay. Call Karen at 284·4393. 
FOR SALE 
ATTN: Notre Dame memorabilia collec­tors. Original center jump circle from ACC main arena basketball floor. Blue back­ground with gold NO in center. 219-287· 6392. 
Round Trip Ticket Anywhere In US Call 2053-Ask lor Tim 
TWO ROUND TRIP PLANE TICKETS OHARE-NEWARK lor the week of spring lor many Chicago schools (3'2Q-3'29) best offer-call Kathy 2722 
Plane ticket lor spring break to Aspen, Colorado. Round trip 200$ Negotiable price. Call Luis £1550. 
TICKETS 
Mom Coming I Need 1 GA lor Miami B· ball game. Please call Joanie; 283-4028 
NEEDED: Two GA's lor the Miami(Fia.) game. Please call Liz at 2738. 
•\ PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Sell your textbooks at PANDORA'S BOOKS' NEW location: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 
1ST SOURCE BANK Buy or lease a car. 236-2200. Financ­Ing available lor all US states. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
•• Spring Break Travel to New York? •• •• Buy Now & Save •• •• $90 AT nx to Newark •• •• Leave 3't 2, Return 3'21 •• •• Call X3586 NOW •• 
Thank you St. Jude lor your help­Thank you St. Jude lor your help· Thank you St. Jude for your help-
KAPLAN JUNE LSAT PREP CLASS STARTING NOW! CALL 272-4135. 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ENROLL FOR KAPLAN MCAT PREP CLASS. CALL 272-4135. 
•• 184 •• 
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY FOR PE· TITION GRANTED. D.A.C. 
Camp Aiello, Thursday March 5. 
RETURN AIRLINE TICKET FOR SALE PHILIDELPHIA TO O'HARE SAT. MAR. 21 DEPART 7:30PM $50.00 CALL KRIS­TIN AT 3390 
"Catholic girls start much to late." -BJ "Well Catholic guys lake II." -Andrea Ex­plain that to us 
"First, the door must remain open. Second, the lights must stay on. I'm not running a hotel." -Sr. Joe 
SPRING BREAK IN FLORIDA DAYTONA BEACH $229 PANAMA CITY $188 LIMITED SPACE TIM x1150 
to the master: YOU DON'T PULL ON SUPERMAN'S CAPE YOU DON'T SPIT INTO THE WIND YOU DON'T PULL THE MASK OFF OF OLD LONE RANGER AND YOU DON'T MESS AROUND WITH JIM (CARROLL) 
II you want CIRCUS LUNCH to return, DEMAND it at a dining hall near you. 
DEMAND CIRCUS LUNCH AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU Ill 
Jeff Blumb Jeff Blumb Jeff Blumb Jeff Blumb Happy Birthday -The Observer 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA BEACHIII Spaces still available from $200/U-Drive $149. Call Campus Rep. at 283-4003. 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA! contact 283-4003 
TO DANCE! 
GUYS, want to make some EXTRA MONEY? Be a referee lor SMC 5-on-5 Intramural Basketball call 5290 lor more information 
SMC 5-on-5 Intramural Basketball com­ing soonl Ger your teams NOW! 
JUNIORS GET YOUR GREEN OUT FOR THE PRE-ST. PATRICKS DAY CELEBRATION MARCH 7TH. 
SENIORS! 
Rock the boat Don't rock the boat, baby Rock the boat Don't tip the boat over Rock the boat Don'rrock the boat, baby Rock the booooaaaattrtl. Familiar tune? Hear that one and many more at United Skates of America on Tuesday, March 3rd from 8 -10 p.m. Relive your 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th grades by roller skating to your favorite 70's songs. Only $2.50 e $1.00 skate rental. Be therel 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS Do you have friends or roommates over­seas this semester? Have you written them?--11 not stop by the Junior class office and leave a message lor the per­sonal section of the Jr. class overseas newsletter--we'll print everything.Get there before Tuesdayllllll 
BLANK GENERATION SMC Clubhouse Tuesday, March 3: 9-12 pm Nasty rock and roll 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 
IPSO FACTO 

YO Chuck and Joycelyn: You two are the greatest! 
XXXOOO Cathy 

SAB APPLICATIONS 
Deadline extended til Frldayl Pick-up your application TODAY 2nd Floor LaFortune 
CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT 
IDEAS AND ISSUES 
MOVIES 
CULTURAL ARTS 
SERVICES 
BUSINESS AUDITOR 
PUBLICITY 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
REGGAE II II 
Tues., March 3 Theodores 8 p.m. IPSO FACTO free Ipso Facto performed with KINKS, CLASH, UB40 spons. by SAB 
You will see TOM DELUCA 
You will see TOM DELUCA 
You will see TOM DELUCA 
You will see Tom DELUCA 
You will see TOM DELUCA on Sunday March 8 at Wash. Hall at 8 p.m. Tlx $2 on sale In the cellar Wednesday March 
4. Sponsored by SAB 
CAPP MAJORS REMEMBER THE MARCH 3rd CAPPAJPMA MEETING FEATURING GREG STRZVZWESKI OF E.D.S. 7pm 210 O'SHAG 
Augusta Hall's Weddingless Reception is Thursday, March 5 from Bp.m. to mid­night at Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 2 21 ID's are required. Tickets will be on sale Monday March 2, at South Dining Hall during Dinner Hours and LeMans Hall Lobby from 4· 7p.m. The cost is $3 per person. 
••••BLANK GENERATION•••• Tues.Nite-SMC Clubhouse Ba Ready To Rock I 
OH, TO BE IN MISSOUR-AH 
IN FEBRUARY 
(Part I) First they stop at that extra-special McDonald's In Joliet. Mark gets upset over his defective set of McDonaldland cookies (where's Grimace?). Speed­demon Anne flies down 1-55, later saying, "I thought you guys were way ahead of us." Regis provides entertainment as Rap-master Reeg (Friends). Robin Wil· Iiams entertained in St. Louis, while Mark loses his shirt and Tripp (alias Jim Alley) leaves behind his jacket and toothbrush. The conferences at Mizzou bring out the best in Mark, who lectures all on sexually frustrated men and girls in beggy sweat­pants, much to Karen's delight. The lunchtime speaker talks of Greek classics (Homer), tar salasmen (the kind you put on your car), and covering all bases (Christian and Jews). Take In NO­Marquette game where DC, Rock and the real Marty were on TV (Rock-do you ever remove your hand from your chin?) Tomorrow-A Night on tha Town In Co­lumbia 
Baware of Rai's Syndrome • Tuesday ... 
ATTENTION! ATTENTION! Gorgeous George Rodriguez of Holy Cross Hall will be singing "Flora Sent Me Flowers" Friday night at Theodore's. This is one you shouldn't miss. Note: No flash cameras or audio racord­
ing devices allowed. 
... so Ia Ia Ia Ia Ia Ia my lady in the sun with your dress undone 
Happy 21 at Blrthdaya Mary Kate and Dave 
HAPPY BELATED 21ST BIRTHDAY TO THE BCAF FASHION QUEEN VIVIAN NADINE CROSWELL LOVE, L.L AND RUN-D.M.C. 
TO LOVE ANOTHER PERSON IS TO SEE THE FACE OF GOD 
MARY We danced early Thursday at Senior Bar. You had a sweet watch. Now how do I lind you? The guy in the green sweater. 
Thanks again St. Jude P.N. 
Hey P.W. Gutterball Queen Only 4 and 314's?l Am I a Cradle robber? Happy B· Day Alumni's Gutterball King 
....................................... 
OFF-CAMPUS FORMALII!I AT KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB THURS., MARCH 5 9pm TO 38m TIX ON SALE WED., :Y4 & THURS., :>5 4-Bpm LaFORTUNE LOBBY S1GCOUPLE FREE FOODII MUSIC BY "PAR 3"11 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Mardi Gras Mardi Gras Mardi Gras Vatican Ill Vatican Ill Vatican Ill March 3rd March 3rd March 3rd JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Mardi Gras Mardi Gras Vatican Ill March 3rd JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
ANNIE: I wanna know everything that hap­pened on the trip I The Questionnaire 
Dude I Its a jelly of a day I Kerry's 21st Bdayl A classic ayl Good Day Ay, Semool 
ASK RICK REUTER ABOUT WOMEN WHO ARE LIKE POWER WINDOWS 
TOM BEATTY-Inquiring minds want to know why you are the front runner lor Screaming Otter of the Monthll 
TIMBO: THANK YOU FOR FRIDAY. I KNEW I HAD REASON TO BE "EXCEPTIONALLY EXCITED• ABOUT ITIS 
SPRING BREAK LOANS 
Morrissey Loan Fund All Students Eligible Except May 87 Grads $20·200 30 days 1% interest 2nd Fl Lafortune 11:30-12:30 M-F 
STEVE BOULET, sorry about the delay ... hope your birthday and Mardi Gras were lun ... Love, the gang 
Hey MATT MURPHY, hope your birthday was the best. Hey, now, can the devil fuzz come off? We miss the old Matti Can we have a party lor you this Friday? (at your place, of course) Love, your so­cial planners and fan club. 
RACHEL NIGRO Is back and so is her back 233-2235 
BAMF-Yes youl Suprisel Happy 19thl Have a great one II Stay close and always remember-Blue Skies Babel Cheesy??· ·Who reads the personals anyway?? 
• 

The Observer Monday, March 2, 1987 -page 9 
Women's swim team takes sixth 
By ROSE PIETRZAK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team ended its season placing sixth among a field of 12 teams in the Midwest Inde­pendent Swimming and Diving Championships at Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquatic Center. Tallying 322 points, the Irish did not match last year's third place finish, but did manage to place 25 swimmers in the top ten positions for 19 of 20 events. 
"We saw some incredible teams here this weekend," said second-year coach Tim Welsh. "As a team, we swam very well also. We had significant timing drops across the board and we were able to hold our own. One of our season goals was to move up a place in the rankings this weekend, but through the season, we realized that as a team we would probably not be able to accomplish that goal. We decided to stress the indi­vidual events and the best pos­sible performance." 
The squad depended heavily on veterans Amy Darlington and Suzanne DeVine to carry the burden of the events. Dar­lington, a junior from Fair­field, Ohio, captured a second­place finish in the 400-yard Individual Medley with a time of 4:38.24 to reset her own uni­versity record. Darlington also earned a third-place standing in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:06.72. As a member of the 800-yard freestyle relay team, Darlington helped change the record with a time of 7:54.93. 
Senior Suzanne DeVine cap­tured fourth place in the 100­yard butterfly with a time of :59.50 and also an eighth place finish in the 200-yard Individual Medley. DeVine contributed to the 800-yard freestyle relay and also swam a leg of the sixth­place medley relay. 

Other outstanding perfor­mances were put in by fresh­man Georgia Bosseler and sophomore Barbara Byrne. Bosseler captured eighth place in a tough field of 26 divers in the one-meter diving event and Byrne placed eighth and sixth in the 100 and 200-yard back­stroke events respectively. 
"We entered the season with some worries," said Welsh. "We were lacking depth in some of our events and we needed to pull everything to­gether. It was an exciting weekend, partly due to having the championships here for the first time, and partly because 
we knew we would be doing our best." 

The Observer /Susan Coene 

Suzanne DeVine had a big weekend as the women's swim team placed sixth in the Midwest Independent Swimming and Diving Championships. Rose Pietrzak has the details at left. 
Track team utilizes depth to subdue DePaul, Marquette 
I By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The talent and depth of the Notre Dame men's track team, including a great performance by hurdler Glen Watson, were too much for DePaul and Mar­quette Saturday in the ACC Fieldhouse. The Irish over­whelmed the Blue Demons and the Warriors with the final team scores of Notre Dame 92, 
1 Marquette 43 and Depaul 34. "We had a lot of kids run 
really well," said Coach Joe Piane. "It was a great tune-up for the IC4A's. 
"We ran a lot of different guys in different events. We like a meet where we can do that." 
Piane also liked the perfor­mance of Glen Watson. The freshman set a school record in the 60 yard high hurdles. With his time of 7.29 seconds (also a meet record), Watson missed qualifying for the NCAA meet by just three­tenths of a second. The NCAA standard is 7.26 seconds. 


THE PICTURE MAN will be displaying 


Junior Parents' Wee~nd 
photos on sale from Monday, March 2 thru Thursday, March 5 from 12 noon until 5 pm in the Annapolis Room, first floor LaFortune 

"Glen ran the race of the day," said Piane. "He was just great. He just missed qualify­ing for Nationals by an eyelash." 
Field event standout Rick Muench won the triple jump with 47-5 lJ2 and the long jump with 23-2, almost a foot better than the old meet record, and placed second in the high jump with 6-6 for the Irish. 
"I was really pleased with Rick Muench," said Piane. "He did well for us Saturday and has really performed well all year." 
Many meet records fell in ad­dition to those broken by W at­son and Muench. Pole vaulter Chris Matteo bettered his own meet record by 3 inches, vault­ing 15'3", and the Irish mile relay team of Robert Nobles, Yan Searcy, Watson, and Chris McGuire set a new mark of 
3: 27.01. Tim Brown ran a record time of 6.38 seconds in the sixty yard dash and blew away the old mark of 32.35 with a 30.80 in the 300 yard dash. 
Other Irish victors were 

Clh.c. dl'th & ....&ttc.u atu.dz.nt diJIJ&o'ty Counctf fnuc.nh 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
DATE DEPARTMENT LOCATION TIME 
Monday March 2 
4:30-5:30 Psychology 200 Haggar 
6:00-7:00 6:00-7:00 7:00-8:00 
History 104 O'Shag Education 210 O'Shag Sociology 210 O'Shag 


"l~UlH ....N~lHING BUllHE lHUlH" 

d·ng artts. t 
1
\ recor

t\auona ed with 
per{otm et ufAO \\\nw;, clash 
David Warth in the mile run, Searcy taking the 440 yard dash, and Nobles winning the 880 yard run. 
"Tim Brown ran well. He al­ways runs well," Piane said. "Yan (Searcy) ran really well, too. It was good to see him get a win. 
Blood 
continuedfrom page 12 
third round. 
In other bout stoppages yes­terday, Ted "The Truth" Gradel took out "Irish Patrick" O'Neill in a bout that lasted only to the 1 : 25 mark of the second round. 
Tim "Thunder and Lightn­ing" Newell stopped Ed "Rambo" Raeke at the :29 mark of the third round in the welterweight class, and Rob "Rubster Truckster" Price defeated Edgar "The South Bend Mad Dog" Reilly in the middleweight class at the :49 mark of the third round. 
Two celebrity figures hooked up last night when Jack "The Honeymooner" Gleason sent Billy "Bob" Joel to the moon at the 1: 18 mark of the third round in a super welterweight bout. One can only hope that the result of a match featuring the real celebrities might end the same way. 
A crowd of 1,834 was on hand for yesterday's semifinal round. 
Telemarketing 
Eem 1 end have fun. Hou...: Monday and TUMdey Spm to 10pm, Sunday 11em to 7pm Good pay. Short to Indefinite poaltlone. Immediate openlnga. 
MANPOWER 
Temporary Steff Speclellata 320 w. LaSalle 234-0157 

The Observer 
ND women take two in Wisconsin 
Bengal Bouts 

in Bunek, Botham homecomings 
Super Welterweight Walton over Mason by unanimous dec. FH!herwelght 
Sunday'a R88ulta 
Gleason over Joel stopped at t :18 of 3rd 

By MARTY STRASEN kept their winning streak alive on inside feeds to Botham, who
Powers over Scheve by split dec. McCann over Dieterle by split dec. 
Dodd over Ventura by unanimous dec. 
Assistant Sports Editor "Annie Scwartz is a clutch connected for 18 points.
Healy over Felton by unanimous 
Jr. Middleweight

Goodwine over Murphy by unanimous dec. 
player for us , " DiStanislao "It feels good to have the
Riedl over Graf by splij dec. Jr. Lightweight 

Oiivarria over Maiig by unanimous dec. 
MADISON, Wis. -Wisconsin said. "She's really been a key record," said Gavin, who also
Becklund over Kohl by unanimous dec. 
Gradel over O'Neill stopped at 1 :25 of 2nd Bellalta over Polcari by unanimous dec. 

natives Sandy Botham and for us winning in February. held the old mark of 15. "It's
Gibbs over Down by unanimous dec. Duggan over O'Loughlin by unanimous dec. 
Bender over Kirsch by unanimous dec. 
Heidi Bunek did what you We've finally found a consis­really nice when your team­
Middleweight 

Burelbach over McCioone by unanimous dec.
Hessians over Sheehan by split dec. 
might call rubbing it in in their tent outside shooter and that mmates are hitting. I think I
Reilly over Price stopped at :49 of 3rd Anderson over Battistoni by unanimous dec. 
Lightweight 
Mundo over Nelson by forfeit 

respective hometowns of Mil­takes a lot of pressure off was trying to go to Heidi a little 
Burget over Meagher by unanimous dec.

Cox over DeGroft by unanimous dec. 
waukee and Madison this Sandy and Heidi in the too much in the beginning, and 
Lt. Heavyweight Albertini over Gordon by unanimous dec. 
Noone over Bastian by split dec. 
Wood over Balint by unanimous dec. 

weekend, as the Notrte Dame middle." that hurt us a bit. But once we 
Freschi over Scamman stopped at 1 :06 of 3rd 
Jr. Welterweight 

women's basketball team Notre Dame led 37-31 at settled down, we handled their 
Gamache over O'Donnel by unanimous dec. Cane over Canavan by split dec. 
Jagger over Duncan by split dec. 
swept a pair of games from halftime and never trailed in zone well."
Reuvers over Madison by split decision 
Crulaerwalght

Hartigan over Santry by unanimous dec. 
Marquette and the University the second half, although con­The Irish, trailing 10-4 early
Angrick over Lyons stopped at :20 of 2nd Welterweight 

Hayman over Kalivas by unanimous dec. 
Purcell over Roy by unanimous dec. 

of Wisconsin. stant Badger pressure kept the in the game, rattled off 16­
Ahlholm over Wiater by forfeit Schneider over Harig by unanimous dec. 

Bunek scored 16 and pulled game up for grabs until the consecutive points to take a 20­
Rowe over O'Neill by split decision Newell over Raeke stopped at :29 of 3rd 
Drew over Woo~ord by unanimous dec. 
· Heavyweight 

down nine rebounds last night final two minutes. 10 lead. They never had that 
Ackerson over Showel by split decisionHillsman over Griffith by unanimous dec. 

as ND topped Wisconsin 80-70 The Irish hit 15-of-16 free margin cut below seven the in front of a record crowd of throws down the stretch and rest of the way. out of line here." 2,372. earned a lot of easy buckets "Marquette had a choice,"A column on the front-page "The officials did not partic­after breaking the Wisconsin said Distanislao. "They were
Beer 
of the Milwaukee Journal ularly favor Heidi tonight," press. either going to build a fence continuedfrom page 12 sports section castigated the said Notre Dame head coach Lisa Bonnell led the Badgers around Heidi or Sandy, and Marquette fans for their latest Mary DiStanislao. Bunek with 22 points, while fellow they picked Heidi because her 
statement on beer being example of poor behavior and fouled out with 3 : 07 to go in the senior Karen O'Malley added numbers are a little bit better. 
thrown on our players." 
called for the Marquette ad­game. "She gave us some very 16. That's where the defense went, Phelps was also rankled by ministration to begin to curb its good minutes out there and she The Irish outshot Wisconsin and both Sandy and Heidi did
the events of the previous eve­students. 
had a lot of clean blocks that 54.7 percent to 42.4 percent and a good job getting open." ning. When the Irish checked But the full impact from this were called fouls." sank 10 more free throws than Bunek only scored nine
in to their hotel near the MEC­weekend's incidents may not Freshman Annie Schwartz Wisconsin. points in the contest, butCA, the Marquette College of be felt until later. This is third 
led Notre Dame with 22 points, swatted away six WarriorBusiness Administration was and final year of the Great In­hitting on 9-of-13 from the field Saturday afternoon saw shots. 
holding a function in the same dependents round-robin series over an aggresive Badger zone. Notre Dame at Milwaukee, "It's good to be home,"hotel. When the Marquette stu­involving Notre Dame, Mar­Botham scored 13 for Notre where the Irish whipped North Bunek said. "I was really ner­dents found out the location of quette, Dayton and DePaul. 
Dame, leaving her two points Star Conference rival Mar­vous, and I think that affected th~ Notre Dame rooms, they Notre Dame Athletic Director shy of her 1,000th career point. quette for the second time this my game. I went after my
caused several altercations by Gene Corrigan, who has been "Having the home crowd be­season, this time by a 77-53 game and tried to make some­banging on doors and ringing concerned of late with the be­hind me was really nice," Bot­score. thing happen instead of lettingthe rooms until approximately havior of the Irish partisans, ham said. "It was a lot of fun. Mary Gavin dished out an the game come to me. It's3:30a.m., according to a Notre was in attendance at Satur­I had butterflies at the begin­Irish record 17 assists in the tough coming home for the first 
Dame official. day's game. With the contract ning but started to cool down contest many of those coming time, but I guess that's onlyDukiet termed the incident up for possible renewal this in the second half, and hearing at five games. natural."
"a pep rally." 
summer, the behavior of the 
those cheers really got me 
"It is not against NCAA rules Warrior faithful may cast pumped."
to hold a pep rally outside of doubt on the continuance of the The Irish up their record toSouth Bend," said Dukiet. series. 
11-15 with the two victories and 
"Digger may be an important and powerful person, but he's 
Rivers 
Spring Break 
We cater to weddings and rehearsal dinners. 
continuedfrom page 12 
eluding six-for-six field goal 
Special
shooting. Within walking distance to the
Notre Dame's execution in the 
University of Notre Dame.
second half was a big lift in the game, according to Phelps. 
1M-~ 
"I think we did a good job of sun tmr.rg satn spreading the defense and Booth 
For reservations call: driving," Phelps said. "I JMS PLAZA (219) 277-9682
$2.50 each visit

thought the execution of our 4609 GRAPE RD. team in the second half was as 6 visits for $13.95 MISHAWAKA, INwell as we've played all year." 
Milky Way and Westwood One 
For Marquette, it was a one­
Bed Combo Radio Network
man show, as has been the case 
Presents

too often for Head Coach Bob $5.00 each visit 3 Bed I 3 Booth Dukiet. David Boone finished 
6 visits for $27.00 $19.95
the game with 20 points and eight rebounds. Sims was the only other Warrior in double 
2n-1o2s
figures, with 12. 



Can you do the job? 
Wanted: fun, dedicated, enthusiastic, creative people. No experience necessary For: Campus Entertainment Commissioner 
Job Description: Plan events like: 
* 
Ice skating and hot chocolate 

* 
Sleigh rides and X-mas tree decor 

* 
Bus trips off-campus to movies, restaurants, and Michigan dunes 

* 
Trips to Chicago for shopping, concerts and games 


For: Movie Commissioner 
Job Description: Choose movies for Student Body to see. 
Pick-up applications on 2nd fl. LaFortune-SAB office. 
special guests 
eorgia Satellites turday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A. C. C. 
All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 1 0 Box Office Charge by phone 
VISMAC (219)239-7460 


Far Side Gary Larson 



What's Happening this Week? 
. ANf1 /.1{ N({!J£{) IW 
50 NEJ.ITON lfVV£NT!f) 

[NrtKll.'f NtW r'/1'( 
f)lf'F!K£Nn~L-(AWJWS 

OF HATH FOR rHtS 
TO WORK our TII£5C 

DtsC.OVtKY. _ _ '-....... 
Pf?DBL£1'15.-.­

Campus 
11:30-1:00 p.m.: Economics Department Development Workshop "An Informal Sector Industry Study: The Case of Jiko Production in Kenya," by Sister Marie Es­ther Haflett, graduate student in Econom­ics, 131 Decio 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Ad­vanced Kermit, 115 Computing Center, limit 15, to register call Betty at 239-5604 
4:30 p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry "Multiple Bonding Between Nonmetals and Transition Metals; and Interface Be­tween Main-Group and Organometallic Chemistry," by Alan Cowley, University of Texas, Austin, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
6:30p.m.: Amnesty International meeting and film, "Colors of Hope," CSC, free 
7:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I "Chinatown," 1974, 131 minutes, directed by Roman Polanski, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
7: 30 p.m.: Basketball NDM vs. Brooklyn, ACC 
Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
• FNI Pregnancy THts 

• FNI Confldenlle~ Individual ·I Couple CounMIIng ~~ 
• 
FrM Reternl To Support Agencies 

• 
Confidential c... 

• 
Mldbl Refemll Service 


• 
Post Abortion Counseling ~ *24 HOURHELPLJE*


234-0363 

One ...'""" Ttte 
Notre a.-Cempua
417 N. f· toup BLVD. 


Tuesday: REGGAEH Ipso Factor Theodore's 8 pm 
Friday: Stand By Me 7, 9, 11 Steve Marmet SAB applications due 
" 

9:15p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Repulsion," 1965, Black and White, 105 minutes, directed by Roman Polanski, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Veal Parmesan Beef Stroganoff Vegetable Quiche Grilled Pastrami & Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Beef Spaghetti with Meat & Marinara Sauce Bean Chimichangas Deli Bar 
Wednesday, Thursday: The Dead Zone 
7, 9, 11 
$1.50 

Saturday: Nazz Competition; Theodore's 
Stand By Me 

Sunday: Tom Deluca; 8 pm; Wash. Hall 
"'You have a small capacity for reason, some basic tool-making skills, and the use of a few simple words.' ... Yep. That's you." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Fosse 5 Chinaware 
10 Silent star 14 Sly 15 Sacrificial 
slab 16 Hedge near a 
rail 17 Seeger or Rose 18 Sinclair Lewis 
novel 20 Memento 22 Come from 
behind 23 Deviated 26 Mine entrance 28 Hot plate 
holders 29 Hockey action 33 Cartoonist 
Goldberg 34 Canine sound 35 Tart 36 "-My 
Souvenirs" 38 Jangle 

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
39 View 
All Rights Reserved

41 "There-a  
crooked man..."  
42 Twelvemonth  7 Of the ear  
44 Seed covering  8 Rather or  
45 Was derisive  Duryea  
47 Acted the  9 Hesitation  
gourmand  sounds  
50 Simple  10 Chemical salt  
51 Editor  11 Skating leap  
52 Pallid  12 Stagger  
55 Twangy  13 Bohemian  
56 Shop facade 59 Drip 63 "King-"  19 Flimflams 21 Look over 23 Grasp at­ 
64 "Moulin-"  24 Part of HST  
65 Flirtatious  25 Crystalline  
look  sugar  
66 Graf­ 26 Distant  
67 Possessed  27 Patriotic gp.  
68 Lopez theme  30 "Norma" and  
song  "Carmen" 31 Limited  46 Appear  55 Part of  
DOWN  32 Antenna  47 Valencia or  speech  
1 Plan  34 Saloon  navel  57 To and­ 
2 Mine find  37 Marine  48 Robed  58 Set-to  
3 Behave  38 Precious stone  49 Peron  60 Conceit  
4 Poe poem 5 Parr  40 Set of bells 43 Always to  52 Quizzes 53 Desist  61  "­the King's Men"  
6 Tartans  poets  54 Sharpen  62 N.Z. parrot  


MU's beer-throwing students lead to post-game fireworks 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN the court at halftime, fans and the normal scene of two going to have him tell me how talk about," said Phelps. Sports Editor pelted them with beer cups, coaches shaking hands was our students should behave. "When we came off the court 
not all of them empty. Notre instead an angry confronta­"It's been a tough year, and at halftime, the fans were MILWAUKEE-If there is Dame forward Donald Royal tion between Irish head coach I'd had enough. I know he's a throwing beer on our playersone thing people think of most was hit in the eye, and had to Digger Phelps and Warrior big man, a powerful guy, but going into the lockerroom. I often in connection with the have it flushed with a lotion 
head man Bob Dukiet. I don't have to have him tell don't think beer should be at 
city of Milwaukee, it's beer. in the lockerroom. "Digger said our fans were me how our kids should be­college events. That's some­Saturday night, Milwaukee's If that wasn't bad enough, bush league," alleged Dukiet have. I think he was out of thing we can correct if peoplebest played a decidedly less­the rain of debris continued afterward at the post-game line." want to correct it. than-proud part in Notre into the second half. After the press conference. "Our stu­Phelps, for his part, com­"If you want to talk about 
Dame's 72-60 victory over game was over, the Irish had dents are great. I know they mented as little as was possi­the game, fellas, let's talk Marquette. to be escorted of the court by beat us on the floor. I'll swal­ble about the incident. about the game. That's myAs the Irish were leaving a phalanx of security guards, low that medicine, but I'm not "That's up to <Dukiet) to see BEER, page 10 
S~orts 
Irish whip Warriors, environment, 72-60 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 
MILWAUKEE In an "NCAA-type atmosphere" at the MECCA, Notre Dame ended a super month of basket­ball with a 72-60 win over Mar­quette. The Irish used a 33-23 rebounding advantage and hot shooting, 60 percent, that spilled beer from the Mar­quette student section could not even cool to capture its eighth­straight win in the rivalry be­tween the two independents. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps said the environment prepared his team for what the NCAA Tournament will be like. 
"This was like playing the first-or second-round game in the NCAA Tournament on the road, with this type of crowd, these types of conditions and the excitement," he said. "We came into the game knowing that Marquette may have to beat Notre Dame and DePaul to get an NCAA Tournament bid, so we expected them to really be up, have the emotion going, and have the crowd going, and yet we took it to them early." 
Take it to them they did. The Irish exploded at the outset, breaking out to a 23-10 lead. But Marquette responded with a 16­2 run of their own, and when Mike Flory hit a driving layup, the Warriors had a 26-25 lead. Donald Royal and Flory traded baskets before the Irish went on a 6-2 run that gave them a 35-30 halftime edge. 
The Irish continued the surge at the beginning of the second half. After Michael Sims hit a jumper to open the scoring, Scott Hicks, Mark Stevenson and Royal connected to give Notre Dame a nine-point ad­vantage. 
But Marquette was not about to fold that easily. Copa and David Boone scored four points apiece to help Marquette into a tie at 48 with 11: 24left to play. 
The Irish came back with six quick points, punctuated by a Royal driving dunk, with David Rivers sitting .on the bench. Copa scored on a nice assist from Sims to close the Irish lead down to four, 54-50, but the Warriors never got any closer. 
Rivers came back into the game at the 7:50 mark, ran the show from there on. He found Hicks on an inbounds pass for a layup, and after Voce rebounded and put in Rivers' miss, the Irish point guard put in a driving basket. He then helped to salt the game away with four-for-four free throw shooting and two field goals when the Irish spread out the offense. 
The Irish backcourt duo of Rivers and Hicks scored 21 and 17 points to lead the Irish, while Donald Royal also had 17, in-
see RIVERS, page 10 


Monday, March 2, 1987-page 12 

The Observer/Robert Jones David Rivers' penetration was a key in Notre Dennis Corrigan takes a look at how the behav­Dame's win over Marquette Saturday night. ior of the Warrior fans irked Irish head coach Rick Rietbrock details the game at left while Digger Phelps below. 
·:·~ 
. 
~­

~.·. 
-• The Observer /Robert Jones 
Heidi Bunek returned home this weekend and helped the Irish women's basketball team to wins over Marquette and Wisconsin. Marty Strasen takes a look at the games on pag,e 10. 
Comebacks highlight Bengal Bouts in weekend's early-round contests 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
In an improbable comeback, Steve "Slim" Riedl survived a first-round knockdown to claim a split-decison victory over Gerry "The Boston Strangler" Graf in the quaterfinal round of the 57th annual Bengal Bouts last night at the Stepan Center. 
Riedl, a sophomore Grace resident from Columbus, Ohio, used a late flurry of punches in the third round of the junior middleweight to claim the vic­tory. Graf appeared to have the advantage through two rounds, but Riedl drew blood from Graf, who seemed to lose both energy and momentum after the bloody nose. 
Three freshmen are making strong bids for titles in their respective divisions. David "Sugar" Cane won a split deci­sion over Mike "Candy Man" Canavan to continue his rise in the junior welterweight divi­sion. Cane, who scored a knock­out in his first match on Friday, used an opening flurry of punches to stagger Canavan. 
But Canavan, by this point sporting a bloody nose, put Cane on the ropes in the second round. It was not enough, however, as Cane, a South Bend nati•'e, claimed the win. 
Bill "The Annhilator" Angrick, a Grace freshman from Clive, Iowa, lived up to his billing in the cruiserweight class with a win over Tim "The Jersey Devil" Lyons. Angrick overpowered his opponent from the opening bell, and stopped Lyons with a standing eight count in the first round. 
The bell saved Lyons in the first round, but the referee stopped the bout only 20 seconds into the second round. 
In the bloodiest bout of the evening, Steve "The Delaware Destroyer" Freschi mauled freshman Glenn Scamman in the light heavyweight class. After receiving a standing eight count early in the first round, Scamman started bleeding from the nose. 
Scamman was slapped with another standing eight count in the second round, and after that the bout was a bloodbath. If it had been at the infirmary, Scamman would have been given a complimentary donut and glass of orange juice. 
Unbelievably, Scamman put together two successive flurries of punches in a third­round comeback effort against the senior Freschi. By this time Scamman's face was com­pletely covered with blood, and the referee decided to end the bout at the 1:06 mark of the 
see BLOOD, page 9 






