Do~ners in Russia -Cantpus Scene 
VOL. XXI, NO. 135 FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1987 -the independent student newspaper sen ing :\otre Dame and Saint \ta~ ·, 

ND students . plead guilty in accident cases 
Cogswell accident driver is sentenced 
By ANN MARIE DURNING Assistant News Editor 
A 21-year-old Notre Dame student pleaded guilty and was sentenced Thursday in connection with the Dec. 6 fatal traffic accident involving junior Michael Cogswell. 
The student, who pleaded guilty to a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol, was sentenced to 120 hours of community service. 
Judge William Albright also imposed a $130 fine and suspended the student's driver's license for 180 days. 
Explaining the sentence, Albright said the grand jury investigation of the 

Reagan refuses to lift sanctions 
Associatt-d Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan promised Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone on Thursday he would veto legislation requiring trade retaliation against Japan, but he refused to lift sanctions already in place without evidence Tokyo has stopped unfair sales practices. 
In a move that pleased U.S. officials, Nakasone told Reagan he had directed the Bank of Japan and the Finance Min­istry to lower short-term interest rates. 
Lower interest rates would stimulate economic growth in Japan, providing "a major opportunity for increasing markets for U.S. goods, for increasing the buying power of Japan," said presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
"Anything that stimulates markets abroad is good news for American workers and American products," Vice President George Bush said. 
Reagan and Nakasone met at the White House against the background of the sharpest trade friction between the two countries since World War II, 
see TRADE, page 6 
accident found "no significant causal link" between the DUI charge and Cogswell's death. 
In light of this, the court decided that "the most appropriate position" was to sentence the student to speaking about his experience in the community where it occurred. 
Cogswell, a 20-year-old Zahm Hall resident, died from severe head injur­ies hours after he was hit by a car. 
Cogswell's mother had written the court asking that the 21-year-old stu­dent be permitted to do community ser­vice rather than serving a jail sentence, Albright said. 
The student had faced up to one year in prison and a $5,000 fine for the Class A misdemeanor. 
Albright, however, sentenced the stu­
see TRIAL, page 6 


Student accepts manslaughter charge 
By SEAN HICKEY Senior Staff Reporter 
A 20-year old Notre Dame student has pleaded guilty Thursday to a charge of involuntary manslaughter in connec­tion with a traffic accident that killed a South Bend man last fall. 
In exchange for the guilty plea to in­voluntary manslaughter, a Class D felony, a Class C felony charge of reck­less homicide was dropped. 
The student faces a minimum sen­tence of 1 year in prison and a maxi­mum sentence of 4 years in prison and a $10,000 fine. By pleading guilty, the student could also be sued in a civil case. 
Sentencing was set for May 28. 
The student was accused of striking and causing the death of South Bend resident Buddy Moore, 52, on Nov. 15, shortly after the Pennsylvania State University football game. Moore was walking on Edison Road, near Ivy Road. 
The accident occurred when the stu­dent's car made a U-turn on Edison Road, headed east and then struck Moore, police records show. 
Moore died of severe head injuries a day after being struck. 
The student admitted in court that he had been driving too fast and in the opposite direction from which the police were directing traffic. 


The Observer!Suzanne Poch

Lakeside lookout 
Frank Lipo, a Notre Dame senior, and panoramic view of St. Mary's Lake. As upon us, many students will take time­Tess Guarino, a 1986 graduate of Saint the last weekend before finals comes out to enjoy the May weather~ 
Mary's, spend a moment taking in the 

Holy Cross forms lay Board of Trustees 
By SHANNON OAKES Staff Reporter 
Holy Cross Junior College has joined Notre Dame and most U.S. Catholic colleges and universities in placing it­self under the governance of a board of trustees. 
The college, which had been under the control of the Holy Cross brothers since its found­ing, established the board on April 5. 
The 18-member board has taken over most of the work previously done by college President Brother John Dris­coll, Treasurer Brother James Leik, Administrative Assistant Brother James Bluma, Chief Accountant Joseph Goepfrich and Registrar Richard Sullivan. 
"It's a major change for us. We've been working on this for one and a half to two years now," said Leik, treasurer of the college since 1966. "The Board will have the power to rule and lead and to guide us in a new phase of college de­velopment. That's the key to ' it right there." 
The Board was established with concern for both short and long-range planning. Leik expressed the need for an out­side perspective that is diffi­cult to achieve by being that close to the college. 
''We're coming from a point of strength. (Holy Cross) is in no trouble. We received no pressure from anyone outside of us (to make the chan­geover)," he said. "We need the help. No religious issue is involved at all in this. It's good, smart business prac­tice." -. 
The Board of Trustees elected additional officers on April 25,1987. William Shan­non, professor of business economics at Saint Mary's College was elected as chairman and Ruth Kelly from the Notre Dame Credit Union was elected as vice­chairwoman. 
Additional members of the Board include Kenneth Andre Jr. of Calumet City, Ill.; Elizabeth Barkyoumb of Oakbrook, Ill.; J. David Brown of Colummbia, S.C.; Arthur Decio and Frank Vite both of Elkhart; Brother Mi­chael Flanagan, and Brother 
see BOARD, page 6 


ND students subpoenaed to testify in Lee's Ribs case 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI and JIM RILEY News Editors 
At least one-third of the more than 200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students cited in the January raids of Lee's Grill and Barbecue were subpoenaed to appear this morning at legal proceedings, according to several of the students. 
The students received sub­poenas ordering them to ap­
pear in  the  Mishawaka  City  
Hall  Council  Chambers  this  
morning at 10.  

According to the subpoena, the students were to testify at proceedings involving the In­diana Alcoholic Beverages Commission and Lee's Grill and Barbecue. 
Although the exact number of subpoenas served was not known, students reported that nearly everyone they knew who was cited, was also subpoenaed to testify. 
Students said they did not know what form of testimony they would be giving. But they said they expected to be asked whether or not they were re­quired to show identification when they entered Lee's. 
Three separate students said they thought the commission was trying to take away Lee's liquor license. 
During January, Lee's was raided twice by the South Bend Police, Indiana State Police and the Indiana State Excise Police. 
At the Jan. 15 raid, more than 
see LEE'S, page 5 

The Observer 

In Brief 
"60 Minutes" profile of Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, president-elect of Notre Dame, is tentatively scheduled for broadcast on CBS-TV on May 10 at 6 p.m. The correspondent for the segment, which was filmed in January, was Morley Safar. Malloy is also scheduled to appear on NBC-TV's "Today" show on May 19 as part of the discussion of blacks in American higher education. ­
The Observer 

Of Interest 
A Spanish Mass will be celebrated on Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Farley Chapel. This will be the last Spanish Mass of the school year. All are welcome to join the celebration. -The Observer 
Rally for Justice, a rally against apartheid and racism m America will be held at 3: 15 p.m. in front of the Administration Building. There will be speeches, poems, and music. -The Observer 
Juniors of all majors are reminded to fill out and return the original and one copy of their profile form to the Career and Placement Services in the lower level of the library prior to leaving campus this spring. -The Ob­server 
A blood pressure screening clinic will be held today from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Decio lobby and again on Thursday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the Memorial library. 
of us come out. We need to let go a little, to just be silly, or not so silly, to play. We're all soThe free clinic is sponsored by the St. Joseph County Health busy being mature, intelligent adults aroundDepartment. -The Observer 


Juniorclassmembersshouldwatchtheirmailboxes for information concerning registration for next fall's senior trip to Montego Bay, Jamaica. Deposits will be due by June lOth. -The Observer 
An Art Festival will be held today from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on South Quad in front of O'Shaugnessy. The, exhibit features student art and prizes will be awarded on the basis of student votes. -The Observer 
NSHP tutors are all invited to the annual picnic at Stepan tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. -The Observer 
Clubsandorganizations,HallPresidents'Council, Student Activities Board and Student Government: the absolute last day to request funds from your 198&87 student activity fee budget is Monday. Absolutely no exceptions will be made as the treasurer's office will be closed due to final exams. -The Observer 
Senior Hangover 5K run will be held on Sunday and will start in front of the maintenance building northwest of Stepan. Pre-race registration begins at 9:30 a~ and the race starts at 10. -The Observer 
Unemployed Seniors are needed in Puerto Rico to teach Enghsh for one year's time. No experience is needed as training will be provided. Lucrative benefits include paid room, board, a~ i.nsurance. See Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for So~ Concerns if interested. ­
The Observer 


Weather ~ , ~ 
Communists are parading today, celebrating the beautiful weather in Mos­cow. In South Bend, however, it will be sunny today with increasing clouds in the afternoon. High in the middle 60s. Mostly cloudy tonight and Saturday with a 30 per­cent chance of showers. Low 45 to 50. High Saturday 65 to 70. -Associated Press 
Design Editor ................. Tom Schlesser Design A..istant . . . .......... Pete LaFleur Typesetter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chris Reardon News Editors ..................... Regis Coccia ............................................ Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ....................... Rob Hennig Sports Copy Editor....... Dennis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor ......................... . .......................... . .... Aretha O'Sullivan Viewpoint Layout.. .......... Rachel O'Hara 
Accent Copy Editor......... Cindy Petrites Accent Layout ................ Ann Biddlecom ........................................ Heather Hypes ............................. : .............. Karen Webb Layout Staff................... Carmina Perez Typists ............................... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Doti SMC Day Editor . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . Karen Radir Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer....................... Fred Dobie 
Tbe Oblervet" (USPS S99 2-4000) is pul!Jished Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
TW Oblervet" is a member of Tile Asaodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
allowed this sort of merrymaking, the customs survived. The Maypole dance especially be­came a part of the May Day festival in this country. 
All the fun and frivolity was not for nothing. The people were celebrating the end of a long, cold winter, and awaiting the warm season to come. Spring has been associated through the ages with growth and new life; the arrival of May signaled the height of the season and en­couraged people to celebrate the past and an­ticipate the future. 
So it should be with us. 
We have much to celebrate. We have a whole year of fun and friends, of academic ac­complishments, of learning and growth behind us. We have an entire summer of fun and friends and family, of academic freedom, of rest and relaxation ahead of us. 
How, then, do we celebrate this carefree month? 
There are any number of ways. The impor­tant thing is to do something just because we enjoy it. I think we need to let the child in each here, sometimes we forget the importance of acting like a kid once in a while. 
Last weekend witnessed the An Tostal­induced transformation of this campus from study haven to appropriately spring­worshipping festival, with no purpose other than plain, simple fun. Of course, such occa­sions should not occur too often; just like , Christmas, they would lose their specialness if they were to come around more than once a year. However, neither should the celebrating spirit of fun be downplayed. 
This is the lesson of the month of May. It is a reminder to stop taking life so seriously, to enjoy some fun and freedom, to take a little time for ourselves without feeling guilty. 
May certainly deserves its title. The days be­tween the end of the school year and the begin­ning of a summer job provide a worry-free time away from responsibility. What a waste it would be to let them slip by. 
Here's to a brand new month and all the fun it brings. May it be a happy, safe, lusty one for us all. 

~ingAdvice .· ~ 


can~

alife /~, 
Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
18081 State Ro.cl 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend. Indiana 48837 (219) 277 ·2870 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
presents a Notre Dam&Saint Mary's Theatre production of 

by William Shakespeare Directed by Reg Bain 
Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday April 29-May 2, at 8:10 pm Sunday 
May 3, at 3:10p.m. 
Tickets: $6 main floor, $5 balcony $4 Students & Senior Cit., Wed. Thurs. and Sun. Washington Hall Box Office, Noon -6 pm Weekdays MasterCard and Visa Orders (219)239-5957 

The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987 -page 3 

Reagan had no part in scam, says presidential spokesman 
ernment of taxes on $2 millionAssociated Press in contributions for military 
WASHINGTON -President aid to the Nicaraguan rebels. Reagan had no part in conser­He cited former White House vative fund-raiser Carl Chan­aide Lt. Col. Oliver North as a nell's conspiracy to defraud the fellow conspirator. government in raising weapons In the first criminal charge money for the Contra rebels, brought in the Iran-Contra af­White House spokesman Mar­fair, the fund-raiser agreed to lin Fitzwater said Thursday. cooperate with independent 
"In the legal view of the counsel Lawrence Walsh's in­White House, the president is vestigation. not a part of this conspiracy," Channell did not implicate 
Fitzwater told reporters. Reagan in the illegal activities. 
Channell, who pleaded guilty to a single conspiracy charge Congressional Iran-Contra on Wednesday, set up meetings investigators have said one between Reagan and sup­crucial aim of their probe is to porters of Channell's tax­learn whatever they can about 
exempt foundation at the White possible presidential involve­House in 1985 and 1986, but ment, but they declined com­Reagan believed he was thank­ment Wednesday when asked ing the supporters for purchas­if Channell was expected totes­ing commercials for the Contra tify during public hearings that cause, the spokesman said. begin next Tuesday. 
Fitzwater said several such Fitzwater, citing a statement meetings occurred. He said he Reagan made at a March 19 could not immediately provide news conference, said, "It was an exact number. his understanding the money 
Channell pleaded guilty to was being raised for advertise­conspiracy to defraud the gov-ment purposes." 

Sluuurrp 
Angela Adams daringly tackles a cup of tea with no hands. With the advent of finals, more 
The American Express• Card can get you virtually everything from a1V to aT-shirt. Or a tuxedo. From Thlsa to Thailand. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about anything you'll want. 
How to get the Card before graduation. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. You can qualify even before you graduate with our special student offers. For details, look for applications on campus. Or just calll-800-THE-CARD, and ask for astudent application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without u:• 
II 
TRAVEL ...,_...,E,.,.....~
• =s 
The Observer,Fred Dobie 
and more students will be seeking that caffeine jolt. 


Trade bill clears House, veto threat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House on Thursday approved, 290-137, a sweeping trade bill with stiff retaliatory features, defying a presidential veto threat and forecasts that the Senate would wipe out its most stringent provisions. 
"Although you may not like parts of the bill, let's move it along, let's get it into the process. Surely the other body (the Senate) will make modifi­cations," Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, urged before the House acted. 
Rep. John Duncan, R-Tenn., declared before the 900-page measure won approval he doubted that "anybody in this House today believes this bill will go through the Senate and be signed by the president in its present form." 
"I hope all of you realize that this bill isn't going anywhere," he said. 
The vote for the measure represented two thirds of the 435-seat House, the margin needed to override a presiden­tial veto. 
On the roll call, 247 Democrats and 43 Republicans voted in favor of the measure, while six Democrats and 131 Republicans voted against it. 
Japanese Prime Minister Yasubiro Nakasone, who met earlier with President Reagan, visited senators shortly after the House acted. 
The Senate Finance Commit­tee, which is drafting its own trade legislation, may take up a punitive provision similar to one sponsored by Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., and adopted by the House on Wednesday by a four-vote margin. 
But Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D­Texas, the committee chair­man, says he does not expect either the panel or the full Sen­ate to approve the measure, which calls for sanctions to en­force 10 percent rollbacks in trade surpluses by Japan and 
other nations if talks fail. The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 4 







The Observer 
FAA says expansion needed to reduce airport congestion 
cials for not dealing with the airport congestion problem, 
WASHINGTON-The head of declaring, "We're clearly run­the Federal Aviation Adminis­ning out of time." tration warned on Thursday 
Associated Press 
Engen noted that no newthat unless immediate steps major airport has been built in are taken to expand busy air­the last 15 years and that Den­ports and build new ones, ver is the only city that has one travelers will find long flight in the planning stage. While im­delays a regular occurrence by pending airport congestion has the mid-1990s. 
been "discussed, debated and 
FAA administrator Donald seminared" for years "pre­Engen sent letters to the gover­cious little concrete has been nors of 10 states in which air­poured," he said. port congestion at 16 airports 
"Time is of the essence," hewill be most severe and urged wrote the governors, notingthem to immediately begin that airport construction likely studying sites for larger air­will take five to 10 years and inports or new runways. 
some cases longer. 
The shortage of airport The letters were sent to the capacity is "the single greatest governors of Georgia, Massa­challenge facing the nation's chusetts, Illinois, Texas, Cali­aviation system," Engen wrote fornia, Florida, New Jersey, the governors. New York, Pennsylvania and 
In a speech, meanwhile, he Missouri, according to an FAA criticized state and local offi-spokesman. 
aggar College Game Room Limited Seating: 90 People Admission: 50¢ 

Wednesday, April 29 9pm only 
Thursday, April 30 6pm & 9pm 
Friday, May 1 7pm & 9pm 
Saturday, 
May 2 7pm, 9pm & 11pm 

EDWARD FISCHER 
NOTRE DAME 
.REMEMBERED 
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY 
.. 
J 
$12.95, paper 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME A CONTEMPORARY PORTRAlT 

Kelly said Thursday in South Bend. 
Ungaro said he and represen­tatives of City Council traveled to Indiana last week to meet with Kelly and tour the plant there. 
"We're just really happy for the whole town -not just be­cause of the job creation but because it's national exposure and it's a positive event," said Ungaro. 
The Mahoning Valley region had long been dependent on the steel industry for jobs and has been hit hard by the slump in the U.S. steel market. 
In March, the unemployment rate in Mahoning County was 
10.0 percent while neighboring Trumbull County's rate was 
10.4 percent. That compares with a rate of 7.9 percent for the entire state. 
In November 1982, the un­employment rate for Mahoning County peaked at 21.7 percent, while Trumbull was at 24.5 per­cent. 
"If it was 25 jobs, I'd be hap­py," Ungaro said. 
The mayor said the city had made commitments to A vanti to provide public improve­ments and demolition in the area, tax abatements, and grants, but he declined to elab­orate. He said the details would become public soon when City Council acts on the authorizing legislation. 
"What's good for the valley is good for all of us," said Daniel Sferra, mayor of nearby Warren. "I'm glad that it's going to Youngstown and not South Bend." 
Lee's 
continued from page 1 
200 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were cited or arrested. The citations for being a minor in a tavern were 
Associated Press 
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio Mayor Patrick Ungaro said Thursday's announcement that a luxury automobile plant will be built on the city's northeast side will help the Mahoning County city shake its image as a depressed steel town. 
"People perceive us as a steel town all over," said Un­garo. "We're convincing people we can do something else. We're retraining mill people to do other jobs." 
The New Avanti Motor Corp. of South Bend, on Thursday said it will open an assembly plant in Youngstown and em­ploy 450 people to make four­door touring sedans and limousines. Avanti will con­tinue to produce two-door coupes at its South Bend plant. 
The Youngstown plant will be located in the Ross Industrial Park in a joint venture with the Cafaro Co. of Youngstown, a shopping center mall developer that owns the indus­trial park. 
"Youngstown, Ohio, offered the right political climate -a mayor who indicated a burning desire for Avanti and a willing­ness to do everything possible to make a second plant for Avanti a reality," Avanti owner and president Michael the highest number ever delivered to students in one

'TAKE NOTRE DAME HOME WITH 
raid in South Bend history. 
" 
Help ,.revent Birth Defects
YOU' 
tft'\ Support th~ 
~ ~!9VK9.lQj~

Available at the Hammes Bookstore 2nd floor 

~--------------··--------------~--------·--------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 6 Mary's Road, stopped at a stop sign, then went forward and hit 
Trial

The ugly truth: UMOC results are in 

an unknown object, according 
continued from page 1 
to police records. 
39.Jim Boylan 0.46 
The student was arrested onPangborn Hall's Wally 'Cool W' Stack garnered 18,617 

40. Ken Fitzpatrick 0.30 
dent to a five-day the charge of driving while in­votes to walk away with the Ugly Man on Campus title. 40. Tom Alvarez 0.30 

jail term. That sentence was toxicated after he submitted to Despite never wanting to earn the title in the first place, 42. Paul Bierbusse 0.25 
43. Herbert Sim 0.20 

suspended, however, in in ex­two ,blood-alcohol tests, policethe co-captain of the Notre Dame lacrosse team found 
44. Greg Tuel 0.16 

change for the student's devot­said.himself the victim of over-zealous friends who coordinated 45.James Brown 0.15 
ing those 120 hours to commu­The prosecutor's office didand ran the campaign without his help. 45. Dan "Doobie" Mangan 0.15 
47. Dan Sophy 0.10 

nity service. not charge him but instead sent The contest, which took place during An Tostal, featured 
47. Moose Lennon 0.10 

The service will involve the case to the grand jury for priests, beasts and other strange forms of human flesh 47.Bill Dunn 0.10 
speeches and DUI education review. The 6-member panelwhich roam the campus. A total of 78 such types were 47. Judy Hutchinson 0.10 
when the student returns in the recommended charging the
51. Steve Delvecchio 0.08

reported in the forms of contributions totaling $816.10, 
52. Karl Kleirderer 0.07 

fall. student with driving under the which will be given to the International Summer Special 
52. Carl Putnam 0.07 
Following the Dec. 6 acci­influence of alcohol.

Olympic Committee. 54. Fran O'Malley 0.05 
dent, the student told police he The prosecutor followed that 
55. Mike "I Have No Friends" 0.05

Here are the results of the "voting: " 
Trade 
continued from page 1 
fueled largely by America's huge trade deficit with Japan, which totaled $58.6 billion last year. 
The meeting came one day after the House approved legis­lation that would trigger trade retaliation against countries, such as Japan, that maintain large trade surpluses with the United States. 
GOOD LUCK TO ALL "FIGHTING IRISH" TAKING THE CPA EXAM! 
This year the University of Notre Dame was the number one source of staff for Price Waterhouse. We are proud to welcome the following 1987 graduates to our firm. 
ATLANTA  HOUSTON  PHILADELPHIA  
Thomas M. Darrow  Frank E. Angelle  Michael N. Corr  
Michael P. Gunning  Joseph 0. Goethals  Peter E. Daly  

BALTIMORE INDIANAPOLIS PITTSBURGH Thomas M. Galloway Gregory A. Bakeis Karen A. Hagnell Gregory J. Mosser 
BOSTON RALEIGH 
Joseph P. Brunetti MIAMI Daniel P. McGrath Susan L. Hayes 
Frank A. Zomerfeld 

Amy E. Martin 
SAN DIEGO 
MORRISTOWN Rebecca J. Cussen 

CHICAGO 
Michael E. Breslin 

James Collins 
SAN FRANCISCO

Stephen B. Deem Jennifer M. Fisher NEW YORK Michael G. O'Grady Maureen P. Fitzgerald Gregory B. Bernhardt Douglas R. Meier Dean M. Conway 
WASHINGTON. D. C.

Richard N. Michalak Gene R. Foca 
Thomas K. Pigott Alexander Fuster Michael E. Sweeney 
Joseph M. Puetz KelliS. Graham Thomas F. Sweeney Gerard P. Melia Patrick C. Zilis Christine Sapienza 
DALLAS PEORIA Tony L. Angelo Colleen E. Donnelly Cathleen M. Noonan Robert D. Manning Phyllis L. Romero 
'-------~--------Price Waterhouse 
Gannon 
had been driving east on St. recommendation. 
56. Michael Haywood 0.05 

22. David "Cranebeak" Scott 3.00 57. Norm Gennaro 0.05 23. Archdruid 3.00 58. Chuck Toney 0.05 
Mary's College; Sister Joel 

24. Mike "Ugly Mike on 2.26 59. Nick Simon 0.05 
Board 
Lam pen, of Donaldson, Ind.; 
, Campus" Hawley 60. "Schwa·a·atz" 0.05 
Thomas McFadden, Stephen

25. Pernell Taylor 2.00 61. John Devereaux 0.05 
continued from page 1

26. Portia Amberg 2.00 62. Bernard Arellano 0.05 
McTigue, Bazil O'Hagan,

27. Mole Murray 1.85 63. Mike Murphy 0.04 
Michael Heppin, both from Richard Rosenthal and John

28. Ugly Mike O'Connell 1.80 64. Brandy Wells 0.04 29.Tom Rask 1.75 65. Ray Viducich 0.03 
Notre Dame; Brother James Wilson, all of South Bend. 

30. Janel Blunt 1.00 66. Rob Viducich 0.03 
Everett, of Lakewood, Ohio; The Board will meet in their 

30. Mike "The Slanderer" 1.00 67. Jean Zotter 0.02 
Brother Paul Kelly, of Holy committees during the sum­
Naughton 68. Mary Whalen 0.02 69.Ed Whitty 0.02 
Cross Brothers Center at mer with the next Trustee 
70. Phil Marzolf 0.02 
Notre Dame; Sister Fran­meeting scheduled at Holy

30. John Coyle 1.00 
71 . Mr. John LoSeco 0.02 
cesca Kennedy, of Saint Cross on October 10, 1987.

30. Brian Vella 1.00 
72. Claire Williams 0.01 

34. Dave Newman 0.70 
73. Dean Conway 0.01 

35. Trent Boneau 0.50 
~------------~ 
74. Dave Johnston 0.01 

35. Andrew "Oink Oink" Phil· 0.50 
75. Dan Fitzgerald 0.01 lips 
76. Steve Shulkowki 0.01 

35. Jim Pernas 
0.50 77. Chip Bacciocco 0.01 35.Tom Tully 
0.50 78. Andy Fen a 0.01 
Happy B-Day 


~U\DI~IID1[S ofthe Castle MIKE .....:;•• s Hairstyling $6atudent $8.50 cumplete cut style 
The Wild
AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
212-6312 217·1691 Colonial Boy
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We •-1-ttue tile a.,.aaro..• Sa•..••••• C.•t• ...• .....•laatee . .. Not Ho.r• 
b_ _.."Lile.dU CWIIM~ ..........I 

1. 
Wally Stack 

2. 
Roland Bluermle 

3. 
Andy Braun 

4. 
Kathy Polacheck 

5. 
Chris Greek 

6. 
Kate "the Beast" Mullaney 

7. 
Charlie Rodriguez 

8. 
Father Gerald Lardner 

9. 
Mr. Chip Slam 

10. 
John Carson 


11 . Erica Dahi·Bredine 
12. 
Tim (All.) Dearborn 

13. 
OLTC Skerry McCarthy 

14. 
Fr. Thomas King 15.Tom Johnson 


16. 
Mike McGowan 

17. 
Dan "Tfainwreck" Cough· lin 

18. 
Maggie Fischer 

19. 
Jim Marks 

20. 
Nan "Llama eyes" Sauer 

21. 
David Rivers 


$186.17 129.37 65.59 62.53 56.03 55.08 46.56 45.56 43.69 32.36 31.94 27.79 7.00 5.84 5.59 5.10 4.00 
3.94 3.44 3.16 3.00 

.r--------------------------------------------­The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987 -page 7 
ND Big Brother gets service awar 
Special to The Observer 
Marc A. Bergin of North can­ton, Ohio, a senior at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, has been named the 1987 recipient of the Patrick John Niland Award for his services as a Big Brother in St. Joseph County. 
Bergin accepted the award at a reception Tuesday which was co-sponsored by Big Brot­her&Big Sisters of st. Joseph County and the organization's Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Col­lege Association for volun­teers. The r~ception was held at the University's Center for Social Concerns. 
The award is given in honor of Patrick John Niland, a 1982 University of Notre Dame graduate from East Lansing, Michigan. Niland was a Big Brother for three years while a student at the University. 
Niland was killed when the car he was driving was struck head-on on a rural road by a pick-up truck attempting to pass another car. 
The award wa presented to Bergin after a three member committee considered several candidates. Judges were Dr. Charles Pressler of St. Mary's College, Professor Terry Phelps of the University of Notre Dame law faculty, and Big Brother James Moore, a junior at the University. The memorial award is given to an undergraduate or graduate Notre Dame senior who ex­plifies a quality relationship with Little Brother or Little Sister. 
First runner up for the Niland award was Notre Dame senior Tracy Claire Thoman of Columbus, Ohio. 

Childhood obesity increasing inU.S 
Associated Press Their research documents a striking increase in weight 
BOSTON-The proportion of problems among both gradeAmerican children who are school children and teen-agers. overweight has increased more than 50 percent over two Obesity is particularly com­decades, and the nation is mon among white youngsters, facing an epidemic of child­although blacks are quickly hood obesity, say the authors catching up. The study es­of a new study. timates that nearly a third of 
··-."'· 

.\ Happy 21st 
J Birthday Tim! (TIMBO) 
you are a super son & brother 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tammy & Tracie 
all white boys in their pre-teen years are overweight. 
The researchers found that from 1963 to 1980, there was a 54 percent increase in the prev­alence of obesity among children ages 6 to 11, and there was a 39 percent rise in obesity among adolescents 12 to 17. 
Allied Shipping 
Let us pack and ship your electronic equipment, stereo, etc. direct to your home by UPS -Emery. 
219-277-7616 
Hours: 9-6 Mon-Fri University Commons SR Western Union 


ATTENTION GRADUATES 
NEED A NEW CAR? 

GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan has your answer! 
Buy the car of your choice with no credit necessary 

-verifiable commitment for employment 
-90 days until first payment YOU WON'T 
FIND A BETTER 
BUY ... 
ANYWHERE! 


1903 LINCOLNWAY EAST, SOUTH BEND liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._ 232-1111 or Toll Free from Elkhart 679-4978 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-'1 
Fountain spray 
The Observer..Fred Doble A fountain on the campus of Saint Mary's sprays into the night sky. Fountains around both campuses are being reactivated after a dormant winter. 



{, 
The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 8 
> 

Significant increase in TB linked to spread of AIDS 
r  NSHP Tutors. .. Neighborhood Study Help Program Come to the annual picnic for some food and fun!! Saturday, 11am-2pm __.._________________.at Stepan  



College Briefs 
A charity Jell-0 jump at Kansas University couldn't use two popular KU athletes because they'd be violating NCAA rules. The NCAA prohibits ath­letes from being named as celebrity participants for any charity. Instead, Jell-0 Jump organizers got the coaches to participate. -The National On­Campus Report 
The course final for an MIT mechanical engineering course pitted student-made, remote­controlled robots in a competitive series of tug-of­war contests. The winner? A robot with a long, hinged arm that pulled the cord the longest dis­tance. -The National On-Campus Report 
30,000 parking tickets were handed out last semester at the University of Alabama. Offi­cials blame it on higher enrollments, increased police department enforcement, and more ticket 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Cases of tuber­culosis in the United States are up significantly for the first time in the 34 years records have been kept, and the spread of AIDS may be partly to blame, federal officials re­ported Thursday. 
New TB cases had declined by an average of 1,706 a year from 1982 to 1984, but by only 54 in 1985. In 1986, the number of new cases recorded rose by 374 to 22,575, an increase of 1.7 percent, the Centers for Dis­ease Control reported. 
"This indicates to us that we have a very serious problem; we need to pay attention to this," said Dr. Dixie Snider, director of the CDC's tuber­culosis division. He warned that an increase of TB among AIDS patients may mean an in­
• MOVING • E 
& SHIPPING BOXES PACKING MATERIAL 
ups. 
located in the LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER West Point Room 
MAY  2nd  -7th  
Hours  OPEN  
SATURDAY  & SUNDAY  -­ NOON  

MONDAY -THURSDAY to NOON --6:30 to 
crease in the disease among the general population. 
The report said the matching of lists of AIDS and TB patients in roughly half the states found that 4.2 percent of the AIDS patients in those states also had TB. The relationship between AIDS and TB could be better understood if all states matched AIDS and TB registries, the CDC said. 
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome is a fatal condition that destroys the body's ability to fight disease and leaves it open to a variety of infections, including tuberculosis. It has been diagnosed in more than 33,000 Americans, and more than 19,000 have died. 
In July, the Journal of the American Medical Association said AIDS patients often suffer severe and unusual forms of TB and said tuberculosis should be writers... but maybe it's because they issued 15,700 parking permits for 11,000 available spaces. -The National On-Campus Report 
Flakes plus WaterequalsBeeristheformula concocted by a food scientist at the University of Georgia. Thirty-six hours after water is added to the flakes, they turn into beer. It rivals any im­ported brew, he says, and could save beer compan­ies and retailers millions each year in shipping and storage costs.-The National On-Campus Report 
"Godzilla vs. Crack," a parody contrasting the dark crime drama of the '40s and '50s with a spoof of the modern drug scene, made its film debut at the University of Kentucky. Created by a UK student, the 50-minute film shows Godzilla terroriz­ing the campus and subsequently developing a 
seen as a signal of possible 
AIDS infection. A survey of 134 
New Jersey AIDS patients 
found 29 of them, or 21 percent, 
to have TB, it said. 
While TB is usually confined to the lungs, in AIDS patients it appears in bones, the heart lining, the nerves, lymph 
······f~········~···· ~ ~t'S ---· 
tlfl' St CAFE (!.,£"­
APRIL 
• 
Wed. 1 Eddy Clearwetar Frt. 3 Prt8Cllla Phillips I. F,._a Sal 4 Duke Tomatoe 1. Po-r Trto 

• 
Wed. 8 Junior Well& Frt. 10 HHIUidon Bl"" Band Sal 11 HHIUIIIon B"-B•nd 

• 
Wed. 15 Blv Twlat • Mellow Fallows Frt.I7Sh-s Sat. 11 Sharks 

• 
Wed. 22 LoMie Brook& Frt. 24 Southalda Danny I. The Sklntones Sal 25 Southalde Danny I The Sklntone• 


(" W1ndy C1ty WedneSday·s­Ch•cago Blueg ArtiSts) 
Sunay., u-Harwy SUiullar. WVPE OJ Lundl & Din.-r ...... Sun.. AU Cajun manu 
100 Center, Mishawaka 256-0710 
CD 
-~ ca > c 
c
,.... 
0­
"'C
.... 
ca 
::::J 
CJ 
·-u .... 
.c 
ca 
u. 
w 
w 
GRADUATES: 
GET 
THE CREDIT 
YOU IISERVE 

From your college grad specialist 
0
Greg Kantauskas Dan Meachum I\) For this special GMAC financing, all you need is your diploma or letter of graduation, c proof of a job, a low down payment, and the ability to meet monthly payments. c Bring this ad and get $400 off the purchase price, or a 90-day deferral on your payments, 
< 
as a graduation present from GMAC and Rafferty's. m
-
c 
glands or rectum, the maga­zine said. 
Snider said the CDC's 1986 figures are preliminary and may be slightly higher when completed. They include only indigenous TB cases, not cases brought in from another country, he said. 
Graduating and Moving to CLEVELAND? 
ND Club of Cleveland "vants to help. 
For Information Contact: 
~~D Cleveland Club 
Tim McKeogh '80 116 Maple Ridge Rd. 
Chagrin Falls, Ohio. 44022 (216)442-2001 
chemical abuse problem. -The National On­Campus Report 
Mandatory drug testing would be required for all entering and returning public college and university students in Tennessee, and those who failed the test wouldn't be admitted, according to a bill proposed by a state legislator. "They should be tested to protect themselves and others who are there to learn."-The National On-Campus Report 
"My family comes first," says the impeached president of the University of New Or­leans Student Government Association. SGA mem­bership charged he missed meetings and neglected his duties. Ex-president James L6we, who's the fa­ther of a month-old son, says he missed one meeting to attend a Lamaze class.-The National On-Campus Report 
The tuberculosis increases are the highest where AIDS is more of a problem, Snider said. In New York City, TB has in­creased by 40 percent in two years, he said, adding that the the most dramatic increases are in neighborhoods with high instances of AIDS. 
-· 
tn 
CD 
m
-
m 
::::J
... 

The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 9 
Security Beat 
Tuesday 
8:25 p.m. -A young juvenile was reunited with his family after they had reported him missing. Apparently, the youth ran away from home and came out to Notre Dame to see his "Big Bro­ther." He was persuaded to return home by several students and Secur­ity. 
11:59 p.m. -A Mishawaka resident who was attending a function inside the ACC reported that his vehicle had been broken into. Removed from the vehicle was an AM<FM cassette stereo. Victim estimates his loss at at $50. 
Wednesday 
1 a.m. -While on routine patrol, a Se­curity Officer found a backpack in the lobby of the South Dining Hali ..Secur­ity is in the process of contactmg the 
owner 12:30 p.m. -A Lyons resident reported the theft of her backpack from inside Stepan Center, including its contents. Victim states her loss to be $139.00 
1:12 p.m. -Security is investigating a collision that occurred in the Main Circle. The suspect vehicle is des­cribed as a gray Jeep driven by a male white college age person. The vehicle which was struck sustained extensive damage to the front end. Damage es­timate is unknown at this time. 
2 p.m. -A Dillon resident reported that 
his vehicle was broken into while it was parked in Green Field. An AM-FM stereo cassette and in-dash speakers 
were taken. Entry was gained by smashing the driver's window. Damage and Joss to the victim was estimated at $350. 
2:45p.m. -A Howard resident reported the theft of three books from inside his backpack while it was in the lobby of the South Dining Hall. Victim states his loss to be $105. 
4:25p.m. -A Keenan resident reported the theft of his license plate off his ve­hicle while it was parked in the D2 Lot. Replacement cost for the plate is $41. 
Thursday 
8:30 a.m. -A Michigan resident re­ported that her vehicle was broken into while she was attending a concert in­
side the ACC. Entry was gained by breaking the driver's window. Taken was a radar detector and diaper bag. Victim estimates her loss and the 
damage at $300. 

~~i·~~~~~~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;~~i~~~!!~ family, and the single and
1 vowed life_ 

GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS THURSDAY, MAY 7th THRU TUESDAY, MAY 12th TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
THE GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY 7th THRU MAY 12th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30 p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100lbs. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

SUMMER SCHOOL IN CHICAGO 
Where is it written that summer school has to rob you of your whole summer? Not in the Summer Class Schedule at Roosevelt University in Chicago. In fact, this summer we have six separate terms of varying lengths and starting dates. Classes are offered in more than 50 subject areas on days, evenings and weekends at both our campuses in Downtown Chicago and suburban Arlington Heights. 
So if you'll be in the Chicago area this summer, look into Roosevelt University. Our many terms make it easy for you to earn additional credits toward your degree. For a free Summer Class Schedule call (312) 341-2000 or send in the coupon below. ,----------------------~ 
~~ ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY 
NO 
WELLSPRING OF SUCCESS 

Olflce ol Public Relallons 430 S. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60605 
Please send me further information and a schedule of classes. I will be a D graduate student D undergraduate student 
Name 
Addreaa 
Clly/Siale/Zip Phone 
Roosevelt Untverslty admits. students on the bas1s of mdiv1dual ment and without regard to race, coklr. creed, aex or physiCal hand1cap. 
DOWNTOWN CAMPUS: 430 S. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, IL 60605 341-2000 1 ALBERT A. ROBIN CAMPUS: 2121 S. Goebbert Road, Arlington Heights, ll 60005 437-9200 1
L-----------------------.....J 
ROOSEVELT WILL OFFER COURSES THIS SUMMER IN: Accounting • Administrative Science • Advertising • African, Afro-American &Black Studies 
• 
American Studies • Anthropology 

• 
Bachelor of General Studies 

• 
Biology • Business Administration 

• 
Business Law • Chemistry 

• 
Comparative Literature • Computer Science • Computing & Information Science • Dance • Economics 

• 
Education • Electronic Engineering Technology • Engineering Science 

• 
English • English Language Program • External Degree 

• 
Finance • French • Geography 

• 
Gerontology • German • History 

• 
Industrial Engineering • Information Systems • International Studies 

• 
Journalism • Labor Education 

• 
Management • Marketing 

• 
Mathematics • Music Education 

• 
Music History & Literature • Music Theory • Personnel Administration 

• 
Philosophy • Physical Education 

• 
Physical Science • Physics 

• 
Political Science • Psychology 

• 
Public Administration • Public Relations • Sociology • Spanish 

• 
Speech Communications • Theatre 

• 
Women's Studies 


Malloy mandates task force to study life commitments 
Special to The Observer 
A 15-member Task force on marriage, family, and other life commitments has been ap­pointed by Father Edward Malloy, president-elect of the University of Notre Dame. 
According to Father Malloy, the Task Force has the follow­ing mandate: 
• To examine the educational 
mission of the University with regard to the preparation of 
students for various life com­
mitments, including marriage, 
• 
To evaluate the nature of male-female interaction among students and also within other work groups on campus. 

• 
To review the present sup­port structures available to stu­dents, faculty, staff and admin­istration with regard to marital and parental responsibilities as related to the demands of work and profession. 

• 
To propose policy changes that might contribute to a bet­ter realization of a sense of community and mutual respect among all segments of the Uni­versity population. 


The Task Force, which will issue a report with recommen­dations to the University pres­ident by March 15 of the next year, will be chaired by Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services. Other members are Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology; Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator for special events and concerns at the Center for Social Concerns; 
Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics; Ann Johnston, assistant director of the Annual Fund for University Relations; Father David Burrell, profes­sor of theology and philosophy; 
Edward Trubac, professor of finance; Kevin Rooney, direc­tor of admissions; Maureen Hallinan, professor of sociol­ogy; Maureen Gleason of the University Libraries; Roland Smith, director of the Center for Educational Opportunity; 
Sister Jeannine Jochman, rec­tor Lyons Hall; James Wim­biscus, a senior student; Tracy Carrier, a married graduate student; and Joanna Branick, a senior student. 




"ielN~_O_in__t ___________
Fri-day,M-ayl,l-987-p-agelO 

Deteriorated situation warrants divestment 
"We must ask ourselves how we got here, to this prison," Mandela said. "A system put us here, a system with a chain ofcommand. These overseas cor­porations are a vital link in that system."-Nelson Mandela, 1966 quoted in James North, "Freedom Rising" 
John Gardiner 
guest column 
Since the Board of Trustees' last meeting, the world has witnessed con­tinued human rights abuses in South Africa stemming from the State of Emergency which was imposed by the government last summer. The police and the army have been given virtually total control. Even any action, word or written document that protests the practice of detention without trial or calls for the release of detainees has been outlawed. This includes public prayer. A scathing report on the situa­tion of human rights in South Africa was released by the United Nations, al­though a vote of condemnation was not passed by the Security council for po­litical reasons. Meanwhile, the South African Government has strengthened its curtailment of the international press, cutting off a major vehicle for international scrutiny. Finally, the Rev. Leon Sullivan, author of the prin­ciples to which the University currently subscribes, has called for a total eco­nomic embargo, as the means for ef­fecting change, unless the situation seriously improves by May 1987. 
"Change in South Africa cannot come too quickly for those bearing the indig­nity and injustice of apartheid." -US Catholic Conference Statement (Sept. 11, 1985) 
The question which arises is: "Has the criteria established by the Board of Trustees been met?'' The first criterion was that the Board would divest if the situation deteriorated further. As dem­onstrated above, it is obvious that the situation in South Africa has further deteriorated. Words mean nothing un­less acted upon; therefore, the Board must act. 
In reference to the second criterion, the idea that the corporations could ef­fect change by staying there is unrealis­tic. Past experiences show that any or­ganization of workers or potential threat to the regime has historically been responded to by the South African government with force, including bru­tal repression. The only force that the regime appears to respect is interna­tional pressure. The regime is most powerful when confronted by internal subversion or force -it gives the regime its "legitimacy" in its own eyes. However, it cannot respond to interna­tional pressure by force; it must respond with positive action. 
The effectiveness of this interna­tional pressure is due to the fact that foreign investment in South Africa is the lifeblood of the white regime in terms of administrative expertise, cap­ital, technological advancements and the maintenance of machinery. Pulling capital out makes it difficult of the white regime to continue repression. In addition to the technological effect, the loss of revenue brought by foreign dis­investment would hinder the govern­ment's ability to meet the costs of repression, detention, and the State of Emergency, forcing them to negotiate. 
There is always present argument that if we should remove our "leverage," we will no longer have an effect upon the regime. As I have shown above, the presence of foreign compan­ies is not really a "leverage." Marginal improvements in workers' conditions are not the central issue; what has to be achieved in South Africa is a negotiated settlement between repre­sentatives of the liberation movement toward the negotiating table. The al­ternative is a prolonged and bloody civil war. International groups can still retain pressure through the rewarding of the start of serious negotiations. 
Some recent announcemnts of withdrawals have proven to be inaut­hentic. Thus, it is necessary to include the following guidelines, sponsored by the American Committee on Africa, in any effective divestment policy. A cor­poration is considered to be doing busi­ness in or with the Republic of South Africa if it, its parent, or its sub­sidiaries: 1) have direct investments in South Africa, or have entered into fran­chise, liscensing or management agreements with or for any entity in those countries; or 2) are financial in­stitutions that have not prohibited new investments, loans, credits or related services, or the renewal of existing fin­ancial agreements, ·inciuding those for the purpose of trade, with any entity in those countries; or 3) have more than five percent of their common stock beneficially owned or controlled by a South African entity. 
"We, therefore, ask all men ofgood will to take action against apartheid...Don't buy South Africa's products and ... Don't trade or invest in South Africa... " ­Martin Luther King, Dec. 10, 1962 
People are saying that "things are improving." They point to the fact that only 25 people died in a recent month (as compared to other months). Such an indicator is ridiculous. These people also point to the granting of permission to blacks to use the white beaches. Are they serious? What is the next step for the Board to take? Will they postpone a policy decision until a civil war en­gulfs the country? Why does the Board continue to delay what many consider to be the inevitable? Already, the bis­hops of the United States Catholic Con­ference are preparing a divestment strategy in anticipation that the situation in South Africa will not im­prove by their May deadline. The bis­hops have claimed that their "religious and moral teaching is daily con­tradicted by apartheid." Is Notre Dame immune from such teaching? Given King's words above, are we not twenty­five years overdue? 
John D. Gardiner is a senior govern­ment major. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Homosexuality in print nauseates some readers 
Dear Editor: 
As I read both The Observer and 
Scholastic regularly, I have noticed 
that there has been much written about 
the homosexual communify at Notre 
Dame. The guest column series by 
Jenifer Naughton in the April 27-29 edi­
tions of The Observer have re-ignited 
the controversy of this problem over 
the lunch tables and my dormitory sec­
tion. I feel that I must speak out against 
this terrible misuse of University 
media to forward the aims of a minority 
group whose very existence I cannot 
condone. 
If it is your intent to educate the 
"straight" students of this campus as 
to the supposedly widespread existence 
of a homosexual community, this is not 
the way. Scholastic's December 4, 1986 
cover and content were devoted to this 
concept, which forced me to re­
evaluate the merit of this institution. 
Perhaps Scholastic ran out of material 
and turned to the gay1esbian issue to 
fill empty space. I can't believe that. 
It is one thing to tell the student body 
that there are homosexuals on campus 
and another thing entirely to say that 
these people should be recognized as a 
group. If Mr. Acosta could have it his 
way, he would make homosexuality 
" ... an ordinary, noncontroversial 
aspect of everyday life." IfI could have 
it my way, homosexuality would not.ex­
ist. 
After Scholastic published this issue, 
I had many discussions with other "straight-minded" people, all of whom were nauseated or at least slightly un­settled by the idea of homosexuals in the community. The Observer guest columns of these last few days has vi­ciously re-opened that festering wound. 
Even if I concede the alarming fact of homosexuality at Notre Dame, I find no reason that I should be continually subjected to numerous "revolting" scenarios over the lunch table. Reading that I could be "checked out" by a male turns my stomach. And how can you not expect someone to complain when you print the trash of two young men "John" and "Chris." The idea of two young men "blissfully" in love and being "very happy, very romantic," would cause any decent, red-blooded American to see his lunch again. If you want to tell us about the problems in our community, please do not make the detail so graphic that we become ill. 
I can admit that there are homosexuals at Notre Dame. I do not approve of it, and above all I do not understand why there is so much writ­ten by and about them. Ms. Naughton said in her column Monday that homosexuality is "a natural orientation (of) probably ten percent of the popu­lation." I still can't see how that makes it right. Even though it exists, I don't have to read about it in the school paper or magazine or anything connected with this University. In the future, please consider the majority of people who provide the majority of funding for this paper and write for their tastes. 
John P. Tansey Keenan Hall 


Campus quote 
"In some mysterious way my prayer today is not simply 'mine' but belongs to the whole community; and I am comforted by the knowledge that your prayer has room in it for me!" 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
"Lord Hear Our Prayer" 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
GAPS IN 
THE 
CURTAIN 
The following story, a tale of Casey Kasem, vodka and Russian police, may seem too incredible to have taken place. Nonetheless, several Notre Dame students in Innsbruck not only say that it could have happened, but insist that it did ... 


PETE GEGEN features writer 
Every weekend the internationally-syndicated radio program 
American Top 40 can be heard throughout the world. The Notre Dame students currently participating in the lnnsbruck,. Austria foreign study program, for example, can listen to this program every Saturday night at 7. But unlike the wealth of current popular music available in the United States, current American songs are scarce in Austria, so American Top 40, or AT40 for short, is one of the few means through which the students can keep up with the music. 
On the evening of March 14, several students were listening to the program in the room of sophomore Joe DePiro as they heard AT40 Disc Jockey Casey Kasem read a postcard on the segment of the show known as the "long-distance dedication." 
Now we're up to our long distance dedication, and this one is a first on AT40. It's our first letter from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, from Moscow, and we're not even heard in Russia. The letter is from a young Russian woman who wrote her dedication on a postcard. And here's what it says, 'Dear Casey, My name is Lina and I write to you because I met here in Moscow some American friends. They visited Russia from Austria where they are foreign exchange students from a university in the U.S.A., Notre Dame.' 
Immediately they popped a blank cassette in the tap'e player to catch the rest of the letter as Casey kept reading. 
They gave me a tape ofyour show. Bven though I know I will not hear this letter, I want to thank them for something. They taught me that we are not enemies at all butjust people. I hope other people can learn this too. Can you please play "American Pie" for my American friends in Austria. Thank you, Lina Bestemyanova. ' Lina, here's your long distance dedication. 
Most of the Notre Dame students in Austria did not hear the recording until the tape was played for them. 
"I was so surprised," says sophomore Susan Hrach, one of the students who had met Lina in Moscow. "The next day I ran into some other people and they asked if I heard Casey Kasem last night, and I said, 'No, I wasn't listening last night." They said that they aired a letter from that girl that you met in Russia that you gave the Top 40 tape to. 
"I just couldn't believe it. Joe brought the half of the tape he had to dinner and we all listened to it. 'Ve were really excited, "she said. 
The intriguing part of this story, though, involves the way these Notre Dame students met Lina Bestemyanova. The explanation turns into a tale of initiative, chance and daring on the parts of Lina and the students. 
hi February, Sophomore Robert Brown organized a trip to Russia through the Austro-Russian society in lnnsbruck. He invited any interested students to go on a week-long trip to Russia, splitting time between the cities of Moscow and Leningrad. A total of 32 students took Brown up on the offer. 
The group departed from Vienna the last day of January, a Saturday. Moscow was the first stop on the trip. 
Like any culture-conscious Notre Dame student, the group made a stop at the liquor store to pick up some authentic Russian vodka. 
"We had thought that vodka lines in Russia was something that was made up," says Hrach. "But there really are lines there. We wanted to get some Russian vodka because that's what they are most famous for, so we had to wait in line." 
See CURTAIN, page 2 
~ --------~--------­

The Observer --May 1 , 1987 Scene-Page 2 

thin girl, around 20 to 25 years just petrified. She didn't want of age, with shoulder-length, to hide anywhere in the room light-brown hair and deep-blue because she knew they would eyes. Though college-aged, she look." was not a student. The only option was to hide 
Because the students were her on a wide ledge with a speaking In English, Llna ap­railing outside the window. So proached them. Lina and Sophomore Kathleen 
"She wanted to buy American Flynn moved out onto the bal­products like clothes, etc.," cony, which was eight floors says Hrach. "The black market above the ground, in the cold there Is really strong. People February weather of Moscow. were following us around trying to buy our clothes, anything The junior police entered and that we had from the West. We searched under beds and in had a lot of clothes back at the closets for the Russian citizen hotel for that reason, so we they suspected was on the brought her back to the hotel." floor. But no one was found, 
The hotel where the students and the two junior policemen were staying was for foreign thanked the students and left. students only. No Russian Lina and Kathleen came in citizens were allowed to enter from the ledge, and they all the hotel, partly for the precise had a shot of vodka to reason the students wanted to celebrate. try to get her In--to sell her Things were more relaxed Western products. now, and the students spent 
Entrance was allowed upon some time talking to Lina. "She presentation of a card which was very interested in talking each student had, though it to us," says Hrach. "She was was not strictly checked at the interested in being our friend. door for large groups. So the She was a really nice person." 32 students entered the hotel Lina also loved the Western together with Llna in the products the students had. She middle of the group. bought several items, including 
In their room the students a half-tube of lipstick. But the allowed Lina to try on their most important purchase she clothes and put on their made was that of an old makeup. She was always Walkman one of the students afraid, though, that she might had. They threw in a tape of be discovered In the room. American Top 40 to go along 
with the compact tape player, 
"Everybody jokes thus answering the question of 
•...

how a Russian citizen got the 
......

around about the KGB 
address of AT40, let alone even and you never think heard of the program. 
Lina apparently took the ad­they were participating in risky "It was an intense moment" was aired, but when shethat anything is going dress off the tape and sent the business. added Maureen Barany. returned her friends immedi­tc 1appen." long-distance dedication to "It was really strange to "Everybody jokes around about ately played the tape for her. 
casey Kasem. The postcard hear," said Sophomore Vicky the KGB and you never think "It's just one of those things 
··.:$he knew that she was there was received in Los Angeles by Wodarcyk. "I heard the tape that anything Is going to hap­you never believe is going to ..mder danger," says Hrach. ABC Watermark. the company and I just couldn't believe that pen. But when something like happen until you actually hear "There were Intercom speakers which produces American Top it had happened. I was just that really happened, we didn't It" she says. in every room. She would al­40. A spokesman for the show amazed." believe it until afterward. We Don McLean's number-one ways talk really quiet because I says that Lina's grammar was couldn't believe it." classic from 1972, i'\merican think she was afraid someone corrected before It was read "We couldn't flgure out why it Pie.' A long-distance dedication was listening to the speakers, over the air, and that Lina was so awful that they should from Lina, a Russian girl in
"It's just one of those 

which we thought was kind of signed the card, but left no be in our hotel," continued Moscow, to some American ridiculous, but I guess maybe return address. Wodarcyk. "It was a normal things you never students from the University of they do." -thing. We met this girl and we Notre Dame. She met them
believe is going to hap­

Whether it was the speakers The students still find it hard wantec' to talk to her, so I when they were visiting the or one of the ladies stationed to believe that they are directly really dia.:~ think it was going pen until you actually Soviet Union. Lina heard Ameri­on each floor who keep tabs involved with that long-distance to be that bad. 1• :-:JOt kind of can Top 40 not on the radio,
hear it." 

on all who entered and left the dedication, and they also nervous because she was tel­but from a tape cassette the floors is not known, but some­realize now that in hiding Lina ling us that she could get in Barany was in Rome when Americans gave her. Three one in the hotel suspected from the Russian authorities. trouble." the long-distance dedication cheers {or Notre Dame. 



A smattering of top singles 
KRIS MURPHY The lyrics are stupid .ut It's "Everytlme" Is the first Husker week and bad news on three actually sounds a lot like the features writer Incredibly catchy. Th~ B-slde, song written and sung by bas-counts. First, it's great that Boy Beatles"'And I Love Her." It's a "Proud to be Black" is the real sist Greg Norton. It follows the George kicked heroin but let's real sad break-up tune that And now, with no further attraction here. RuJ'liOMC bags hardcore vein of vintage Hus-face it, he's all image. OK. finds the Smithereens mourn-
delay, I'm proud to present the guitars that got them on ker Du with a monotonous maybe a tiny bit of talent lng a chick whose love was a sampling of this spring's crop the charts and go back to bass line and plenty of Mould's thrown in by mistake. Second-"out of sight." Suzanne Vega of seven and twelve inch hardcore rap. It's a raging guitar squalls. If you can find iy, this is a cover of a song by adds some back-up vocals and singles! Hit it. boys. attack on racism punctuated by this, It's worth buying. Bread, a mellow bunch of you'll be slow dancing before 
a roll call of famous black LOS LOBOS:Set Me Free Rosa tunesters from the seventies. In you can stop yourself. The live leaders. "Like Martin Luther Lee'rears of God (Warners) case you haven't noticed yet, a version of "Blood and Roses" King I shall do my thlng1'll say If there were justice In this major seventies nostalgia craze Isn't as dread soaked as the It In a rap cause I do not sing!" world, this song would be Is going to hit any minute, album version, and boring Possibly their best track ever. number one on the Billboard now. I think this is just a small guitar noodling makes It seem 
HUSKER DU:Could You Be the chart. It's endlessly danceable, part of it. Nixon wants to run too long. 
One?teverytimeCharity, Chas-singable and just plain jump-again, Kiss is putting their RUNDMC:It's TrickyProud to tlty, Prudence and Hope aroundable. It's sung by five makeup back on... Help! And, LOU GRAMM:Midnight Be Black (Proflle) (Warners) Chicanos from LA with plenty last but not least. this single Blue-Love Chains (Atlantic) 
This, the third single from This Is an Import twelve-Inch of cool guitar, sax. and a lot of should be hitting our shores Lou Gramm Insists that he's the Raising Hell album, Is a featuring two tracks from the spirit. Apparently, there Is no any minute. You'll hate it the having nothing to do with double-sided killer. On "It's Warehouse LP plus a track justice though. Starshlp Is second time you hear it. Foreigner now that he's Tricky," DJ Jam Master Jay sets unavailble on the album, number one again this week THE SMITHEREENS:In a released a solo album. You'd up a vicious drum track and Everytime. The A-side, "Could with a song from the winter's Lonely Place-Blood and Roses never know It from this song. It some guitar parts sampled You Be the One?" features one worst movie, "Mannequin." Are (live) (Enigma) could be any Foreigner song from "My Sharona" while Run of Bob Mould's most hum-you listening, God? Hello? The second single from the from any Foreigner album. and Daryl snarl about the mabie hooks yet. Hum Husker BOY GEORGE:Everything I "Especially For You"album and Interesting for about three "sleazy girls" and fans who bug Du? Try not to after playing Own1Jse Me (VIrgin Records) my pick for slow song of the llstenlngs and then.. them now that they're famous. this a couple times. Number One In England last month. "In a Lonely Place" . Yaaaawwwwn. 

~----------------­
The Observer --May 1 , 1987 Scene-Page 3 
Of golden days and wooden nickels 
"D anny Boy" Is an Irish 
farewell from a father to his son going off to war. If this article Is flavored with a twist of Celtic melancholy, It's because I'm offering an ave atque vale at year's end to readers who are on the way out the door. I send you off with warnings that life Is short and time Is fleet­Ing. I call down blessings on your head for heaven's protec­tion. 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
You could stlll be In trouble If you accept candy from strangers. You are not children, so I'll re-phrase the warning in an adult way you have heard many times: "There's no such thing as a free lunch." 
Late one evening In Green­wich VIllage, I saw something which looked like a sign of trouble. A woman's suitcase lay open on the steps of the public library, and its contents were scattered over the steps. I noticed blouses and other clothing that had obviously been Ironed with care; they might have been my sister's. I could Imagine her with my mother, packing things she would want on a Manhattan 
I 

holiday. 
Where was the owner of the suitcase? She obviously hadn't brought lingerie and toilet arti­cles to the City, lugging them downtown from the bus sta­tion, so that she could strew them around for strangers to gape at. and unfailingly steal. I doubt that she had been pulled kicking and screaming into some pimpmobile cruising Sixth Avenue; the VIllage isn't 


that much of a jungle. But she could have accepted candy -­booze, drugs, pills, flattery-­from a cad in sheepskin cloth­Ing who invited her to join him for a night on the town. Maybe whatever happened wasn't quite so Gothic. Nonetheless, the suitcase with its contents half spilled caused me worry and sadness. 
I remember the suitcase that had lost Its owner as a symbol of our vulnerablity. All of us leave evidence behind us. A dorm room after the students have moved out seems almost anonymous. Yet. a picture taped to the wall reminds you that Kilroy was here. Cigarette butts left In an ashtray are a 
he had left them with egg on their faces. Every carnival that comes to 
town has a salesman anxious to sell you snake oil. Every 

The Scoop 
Art 

~I 
The "Wisdom-Reilly Collection of Old Master and 19th Century Drawings" will be on display at the Snite Museum of Art through June 28th. The collection focuses on the works of various artists from that era. Museum hours are I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday; I 
p.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday; and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday. The museum Is closed on Mondays and holidays. 

Movies 

The Student Activities Board presents "f.verythlng You Wanted To Know About Sex" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Woody Allen Is at It again in this outrageous comedy which tries to analyze that NtabooN topic in a scientitlc way. Shows begin at 7, 9 and II p.m. Admission Is $1.00. 
A guide to movie theaters In the South Bend-Mishawaka area: Forum I and II Cinema 
52709 U.S . .31 N. 
277-1522 

Now playing: Evil Dead: Part II, Project 
X. Aristocrats, and Hoosiers. 100 Center Cinema I and II I 00 Center, Mishawaka 
259-0414 
Now playing: Nightmare On Elm Street .3 and Tin Men. 
River Park Theatre 2929 Mishawaka Ave. 288-8488 Now playing: Faded Sun. 
with your name, rank. and serial number painted on it. Even If you've been promised that beyond that door lies the stairway to paradise, the steps don't necessarily go all the way up. You may quickly discover that you're treading on thin air, as a prelude to dropping down a bottomless black pit. 
Years ago, a former monk brought me to an apartment on Sutton Place belonging to a woman with mystical preten­sions. The rooms were crowded with what Kipling would call "heathen Idols." The air was perfumed with Incense; carpets from Persia made the place feel as rich as a temple. 
The couple was very loving In making me an offer they hoped I couldn't refuse. "Christians search for God in the world of nature," the lady explained. "The East directs us to the God within." Would I like to be in­troduced to an Eastern god? 
"I argue with the Church, but I'd never switch Gods in the middle of the stream of con­sciousness." I replied in an at­tempted pun. Next, she volun­teered to take me on a controlled LSD trip. "You need the sound of a familiar voice, with music like Vivaldi's 'Four Seasons' playing in the back­ground. You will be able to see the divine energy flowing through the plants. Pluck off a leaf and watch It die like a fal­len star. A tree In the park can turn into the Burning Bush of Moses." 
1 don't get many offers like that. The sight of a Burning Bush would help my faith, but those two smoothies could have gotten me out on a limb I wouldn't get back from. I was angry at them for tempting me Into a false religion. 
As a grownup, you don't need much common sense to turn down the offer of candy from a priestess of Shiva. When you're younger, as I re­member, It Is harder to watch your step. "Golden lads and girls all musV As chimney­sweepers come to dust." 
You can't blame me for wan­ting to keep you golden. You only pass this way once. Be simple. pure, and loving. to avoid summer's ending In an early fall. Darby O'GIII and I never said we didn't love you. 
clue useful to a detective trying to Identify a suspect. Personal linen soiled by the dirt on a sidewalk Is a sign that someth­Ing unforeseen, and probably sinister, has taken place. How would my mother react to the sight of her daughter's laundry being stepped on by the feet of pedestrians, many of them un­washed? 
Whatever drections our lives take, we leave a trail that could be cheerful or ominous. It could tell a story or serve as Information that not all is well. Bloodstains on a towel, an emptied tlfth of Jack Daniels, a bicycle with a twisted frame--a cry for help couldn't chiH us more than these signal flags of an Inescapable human fragility. 
The brightest and best are not promised that harm can t touch them. For the sake of those who love us, we could be kind enough to avoid taking chances. Everyone is essential to the universe. No man or woman is an island. Romeo and Juliet changed the shape of the universe by exist­ing early. They could have writ­ten great poetry or discovered the cure for a terminal Illness. But, they were already poetry for the friends who loved the sound of their voices. Their disappearance was as depress­ing as an Illness for which there could be no cure. 
It's not necessarily your enemies that cause you great harm, even If they send you home crying. The friendly voices calling out, "Come ln. The water is nne," may draw you In over your head, to sink or swim. Your enemies, with their derision. at least give you an Idea of the sharks waiting to circle your Inner-tube. Don't trust anybody with your pearl of great price, even if they promise you your heart's desire. 
A college friend of mine once got the "Dear John" treatment from his girlfriend. As a result, he decided to enter the semi­nary. For weeks he worked to persuade his buddies to join him in becoming a missionary father of an order bringing Christ to the African desert. "What does It protlt a man if he gains the whole world, and loses his soul?" he kept asking them, as he passed out holy cards picturing the lives of the saints. 
They took him as seriously as the voice of God, and he had a bunch of them getting up early to attend dally Mass. Four or tlve guys even wrote the vocation director for Infor­mation. Sometime during this early exchange of letters however, the proselytizer met another girl who changed his mind about joining the desert monks. The fellows who had climbed on his bandwagon felt 
Scottsdale Theatre 
I 15.3 Scottsdale Mali 
291-458.3 
Now playing: Raising Arizona and Blind Date. Town and Country Theatre 
2.340 Hickory Rd., Mishawaka 259-9090 Now playing: Therese, Lethal Weapon, 
and Platoon. University Park Cinema I, II and Ill 
.366 University Park Mall 
277-0441 
Now playing: Pollee Academy4, Beyond 
Therapy, and Secret of My Success. call the respective theaters for prices and showtimes. 

Theater 
The Notre Dame and Saint 
shop window In Toyland has a little red wagon for you to take home. Caveat emptor! Let the buyer beware! 
Every gospel of liberation has Its eloquent evangelist whq Is thinking more of himself than of you. "candy1s dand)l'But liquor Is quicker," wrote Ogen Nash. "Marriage Is palr-agetBut passion Is smash in'," says me. "To everything there Is a season," noted Ecclesiastes. Is the wagon salesman a respec­tor of young innocence? Is the carny salesman a snake-In-the­grass? Will they make it up to you If you decide you've made a mistake? 
What's my meaning? I mean: you shouldn't go through every door that's held open for you, not now, maybe never, not even If yQu feel It's your door. 
Mary's Theatre Department presents Shake­speare's classic, "Macbeth" tonight and tomorrow night at 8: I 0 p.m. and Sunday at .3:10 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets 
WVFI Top Ten 
are $6.00 for main floor seats and $5.00 
for balcony, and are available at the door 
or In advance at Washington Hall box of­
1. Where the Streets Have No Name U2 
flee. For more Information call 2.39-5957. 
2. Now We're Getting Somewhere Crowded House .3. Ages of You R. E. M. 
4. 
Running Up the Hill Kate Bush 

5. 
Day in Day Out David Bowie


/~Mass_~ 
6. 
Blue Monday New Order 

7. 
Living in a Dream Psuedo Echo 


B. Lessons in Love Level 42
Masses this weekend at Sacred Heart Church are: 
9. Ever Fallen in Love Fine Young Cannibals Saturday night at 5 p.m. 
10. My Baby's Gone Los Lobos 
Sunday at 9 and I 0:.30 a.m. and 12: 15 p.m. 
This chart complied {rom the playllsts of WV1'1-AM640 as of April 29 


r­
SPONSORED BY 
IMifEDEIIS ClASSIC
== SlUED 
AUDIO & VIDEO FOR HOME & CARl 

Classic Stereo ~ 
STEREO • TVs • VCRs ~ CE1.1.U1.AR PHONES • MUCH MORE 
OUR BEST PRICES EVER! 
SAVINGS TO 90o/o OFF 
~HALSTON 
REVLDN J0VAN 
~~~ 
ULTIMA II 
~~~ 
CATALOG & INHOUSE SALES 
50-70°/o
OFF 


1000's of BARGAINS BEDS • SHEETS • COMFORTERS • MORE 
BUDGET BUG 
WATERBEDS 


NOTRE DAME 
A.C. C. 
SUNDAY 
1/U, t'IIJ'J'FIIE, 1'/IJ'r 
ALSO SWEAT & SPORT CLOTHES 
& SOCKS TO 80% OFF 
GOLFs:=-· 
~~ 
SUPER SALE SPECIAL 
PALM SPRINGS SET 8 CASE IRONS 3 METAL WOODS 
~: $14995 GOLF STARTER PACKAGE *79 
MANY MORE INCREDIBLE SPECIALS 
LEATHER 
CAMERAS SATElliTE DISHES 
JACKETS 
BEST 
PRICES
.... 
OF THE 
,.,..~~it.'\.. YEAR
50°/o
OFF 
TRADE-INS WELCOME 
LlctUII:».ATIC»N 
• 
DEUVERY AVAILABLE 

• 
LOWEST PRICES 

• 
FACTORY DIRECT PRICING 

• 
SAVE TO 871Mt OFF 


FREE LOVESEAT 
WITH PURCHASE OF SOFA 





Father Edward MaUoy plays ''Monk Hoops" with the student!'. 
.
' 
I 
~~ 
~ 
(\ --~l 

Father Hesburgh sits In his office surrounded by many of his honorary degrees. 


I 
I 

Everyone watched as Father MaUoy was officially chosen to succeed Father Hesburgh as President of the University. 
j 
J 
... 
'-----~-----------­
The Observer --May 1, 1987 Scene-Page 6 

Father Hesburgh celebrates the Dedication Mass for the Clark Peace Memorial commemorating the soldiers who fought "por patrta et pace" (for country and peace). 


Theodore\ created a new social outlet for students and more exposure for campus bands and disc jockeys.· 
t 
l 
II 
i 
~ 
I 
i 1" 
:~' ';-.: .......... "'~.. ,. 

Senior center John Grieb makes a ftylng attempt at this Pitt punt returner, characteristic of the exciting brand of football played by the Irish last year. 
A Notre Dame .Moment 

David Rivers came back from a near fatal auto accident to help lead Notre Dame over number one team North Gary Voce led Notre Dame's team In their upset victory as well as a Carolina. successful season. 

..
_ 

The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 11 
1'he ~Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 1'he ~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ol Haggar Collge Center, accepts clasalfleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next -(lay classlfledsls 3 p.m. All clasalfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
DO YOU NEED FURNITURE FOR AN Holy Cross Hogs Announce JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: Mike "Eomonn" Quigley likes 
OFF-CAMPUS APARTMENT? NEED Annual Banquet Awardsil HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO cousins of Junior Hogs 
TO SELL CHAIRS, LAMPS, BED AND Hog ot the Year --Pat "Molehead" CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
DESK. GREAT DEAL..HELP ME UN­Reymann VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS

.___N_O_T_IC_ES~~~'--_FO_R_R_EN_T____. 
Chris "Mad Dog" Carney only wishes he

6 bedroom 4·6 students $40Qo500 & LOAD MY APARTMENTII CALL JOE AT Senior of the Year .. Jeff Williams THIS SPRING.
ADOPTION· We're a happily married could..
utilities. Security system 234 6688 277-7209 Fireman Award --AI Sandovalcouple (physician'IJsychologlst) who 
Rector's Award --Chris "Wally" FURNISHED HOUSE NEXT YEAR FOR SALE PLANE TICKET to Portland, Wohltmann JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS:deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd 
be sensitive to a child's needs and can provide a warm loving home where GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 277· OR CHEAPIII Dan £2009 Swynasty Rules HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO Happy belated birthday to a 36841286·0955 tor the CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA· MARY GAVIN
child w111 flounah. Expenses paid. Legal. 
'King Hogs VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS But you still can't touch my Wl/helmlnas.

Confidential. Cali Elhe and Alan collect 
(2t2) 724-7942 
Apt. for rent thiS summer THIS SPRING. ·Salami Call Heidi 233·4176 and the super-spacial
TICKETS 
Scratch 'n Sniffs

Wordprocesaing-Typing Friday Night South Quad SMC ROCKS
272·8827 Campus Bands 
STUDENT HOUSES 2, 5, and 6 man Need Grad. Tix Will Pay $$$ Call Pete The Bottom Line, Bill Bob & Biff, the Law. 
272-6078 SMC ROCKS
and MIKHAEL--1'111 the summer with your

TYPING AVAILABLE MONARCH
GRAD TIXII My mother will pay $$ for a 
NEED 1·2 GRADUATION TIX. PLEASE GLORY DAYS. I'll miss you.•pcouple. Sell me the tlx and bankrupt my 

CALL HELEN £288·8157 SMC ROCKS287-4082 mother, please I Call Mychal x3307 LOST: SILVER DIAMOND CUTGRADUATION TICKETS 

Any Extra Graduation Tickets Call 4421 BANGLe-BRACELET
for saleTo Our Favorite 'Tight-End"· SMC ROCKS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL NOELLA AT 

UNIVERSITY RESUME Call Artie at 1787
CONGRATULATIONS I 
·i··Nee'ii"'3···ciFiiiii··:r·rci<E.:rs·,··;;L:e:.\se with "The Law" and "Freudian Slip" 3193, OR CONTACT AT 411 LEWISProlnalonal Rnumn We W1Sh you the best of luck now and 

HELP ME. ITS A MATTER OF LIFE AND 1·5 pm I'D BE INDEBTED TO YOU/Student Rataa always I 

DEATH! '4423 REGGIE LeMans Courtyard

Near tiMI Moll RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD 
GO FOR ITI Sat., May 2

272-13311 BLDG
J-Girl & Vlvarin 

To Regina Penthouse, Thanks for the EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL memories! You guys are the greatest 
NEED FURNITURE?? MUST SELL 

MET PERSONALS L, 
PAM EARLY, SINCE I YOU, The News Department wants to know
DESK. BED, LAMPS, TABLES AND

MRS. COKER, 233-7008. friends a parson could ask Iori Good luck 
THERE'S BEEN A BRIGHT SPOT IN MY what Is underneath the flowers.
CHAIRS! LETS HELP EACH OTHER

on finals! Have a great summer! Live, SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR SSS··· Love, Laugh and be happy I Love you alii 
LIFE. NOW YOU'RE GOING AWAY TO 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, OUT, CALL JOE AT 2n·7209 SPAIN FOR A YEAR, BUT I DON'T CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Non-tax,. lor $$$tredlt next fall. PAN· WANT TO LOSE CONTACT WITH YOU. 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. BRIAN BAJUK; THANK YOU FOR LET·

DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just REMINDER
CALL ME AND WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT. Can we aay that?
TING ME INTO HOLY CROSS AT 4A.M. 

off ol N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI A SHORT WALK BACK TO SOUTH
PAUL 
Are you going to SAT. NIGHTII I DON'T REMEMBER IT, be here for BUT I WAS TOLD YOU WERE A REAL 

1 0·530, ph. 233-2342 DINING HALL 
COULD SAVE YOU A LONG WAIT IN 

All members of the PRO-TYPE LINE AT NORTH.
SUMMER SCHOOL??? PRINCEII HAVE A NICE LIFE. houses on Corby available lor next year. 
OBSERVER SPORTS DEPARTMENT Quality work, word procaoolf111 avail· YOUR STUDENT SENATE are requested to atop by the staff
Call Chet at 234· 7664 It so, The Observer needs your help In HEY CAPP MAJORS
able. Rnoonabla S. 277-!1833. 
luncheon at The Observer offices be­

producing some summer issues of the THE FINAL CAPP!OPMA Apartment to sublet. Turtle Creek, 1 newspaper. MEETING OF THE YEAR 
tween noon and 1 p.m. today for InfO<· WO<d Proceaalng near NO. Call Mary MUCH GOOD LUCK TO THE mation on a spec/a/ gathering Saturday 232-2436 DYNAMIC MACBETH-IAN DUO
bedroom. summer. Dan 1809 The jobs are varied and, If you are Inter­TUES. MAY 5th 
night. If you can't stop by, call either
ested In newspaper training in your spare AT 5:30 PM IN THE
MARK COSTANZI Dennis or one of the aaelstants !Of

3 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT time, call The Observer offices and ask ANNAPOLIS ROOM ON THE FIRST
K.LVNN BERRY details of the extravaganza.

AVAILABLE 87-86 SCHOOL YEAR 10 for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE
Typln\IWO<d Proceas1ng 2n·5014 break the proverb/a/leg!/!
Minutes from campus 233·6286 The Observer INFORMAL GATHERING 
Love you -Ann and FEATURING PIZZA, AND SUBS. 
Rob P.,

Furnished Summer Apartment For Rent Spacial Olympics QUESTIONS CALL DAN AT 286·5599 
I hope you feel beHer. NEW ORLEANS HELP WANTED II Year around. part-time. 
Call Bart or Paul at 3559 or 3573 NEEDS YOUIII ALL CAPP MAJORS ARE INVITED 
Love, RESIDENTS!Ill Apply at PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 
JanWELL-FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN

YOUR TIMING LEAVES A HELL OF A P.S. You you look "swell."

TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT DURING WHO IS MY SECRET ADMIRER? YOU
I need someone to drive my car back 7 days a week: 10-530
LOT TO BE DESIRED!

SUMMER MONTHS; RENT IS NEGOTI· CALLED & I WASN'T IN...WHO ARE
from New Orleans to South Bend (or the To Jenny, Lala, and Kathy,
GIVE YOUR SPEECHES AFTER

ABLE: CALL 283-3348 ;283·3457 ;283· YOU?
area) 1n the beginn1ng of June. II you are Thank you ST. JUDE for the grace you Thanks for a good time by the lake after 
PARIETALSI go1ng home after achooland com1ng back have given mel GAR the WWF. You're are favorne aporta staff 
1489. 
KENNY E. 
ERIC-MEALS AT HOME WON'T BE

for summer school or would be mterested chicks. Love, the sports men.
THE SAME WITHOUT YOUI HOW

In dnving the car back lor me, please call BAL TO MD Ride needed or will rent 'IV ABOUT AN OFFICIALKev1n Becker at 2311-7471 at TIMI Ob­others. Leave 5"11 Call Wendy C3855
DEBBIE HUGHES DINING BEFORE SUMMER?SEE YOU

.I WANTED
aarvar or 3482 at home. 
You may know me, I'm not sure, but I DAVE BOUCREE
AT NDH,HA HA.
FREE BEERI FREE BEERI FREEreally like you. Have e nice summer and CAN YOU GUESS WHO?
BEER I KT YOU'RE THE ONE JUST AS YOUI'm sure I'll see you next year. Signed,RIDER NEEDED TO S.F. BAY AREA Really, I need a ride to Midway Airport ARE NO SPRUCING UP FOR A DIS·??????????????????????????????????THE CAR IS LARGE AND THE RIDE IS in Chicago on Tuesday, May 12. Call TANT STAR LOVE, ME

FREE JUST HELP DRIVE BILL P. 1165 DEAREST KATHRYN, ALWAYS RE­
Andrew at 1532.
To my cute "super golfer," Knock 'em MEMBER: YMMKM. YOU'LL ALWAYS 
Matt,Pat,Sean,Rob Bet you're glad the years over, you're getting rid of ua. But

Need t graduation ticket. Will pay big dead at Michigan St., but try not to eat BE MY KIWI FRUIT\ LOVE, CASEY 
out the Olive Garden II What iL.... Love, 

LOST/FOUND 
$$$. Call 3586. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
there's always next year--guess you lose. As of noon today, graduation ceremonies your "freshman pupil" THANK· YOU Hard to believe we've only known youJERSEY BOUND??? I NEED A RIDE

Losr I'ad&d Out Jean Jacket at begin in just 362 hours. Seems like fresh· 
guys 3 1!.! months, 'IV the exception ot Theodore's on Apnl23. I think there was TO CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM· to join summer student rockin' man year is the blink of an eye away. ANN, DIANNE, JILL: Since ''Winters" Mel. Thanks lor everything, we've had a WANTED: Guitar and keyboard players 
MER. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. HELPII gone, and Spring hath come, the
a m1x-up-yours1s 1n the Losland Found Time flies whether you're having fun or 
lot of fun and we'll mlsa youl We love In La Fortune. It has sentimental value PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041. not. I've mostly had fun. I just want to friendship between us has something be· you guyal Skeletor & V.M. to melllll Please contact Cindy at SMC say: Have a beau1ilul life. Only you are band. Call Shawn at 1-293-7475 for Info. 
come. What a year, need we say "Moore"! 
SELL YOUR TEXTBOOKS FOR $$$--·BOSTON-ROOMMATE NEEDED CALL

C42t9 responsible lor what you do. Don't be
Non-texts lor $$$otredit next fall. PAN· Helpl I need ride to Mpls-Leavlng after

ZACK 1154 SPRING BREAK 88
afraid. Donald Seymour
DORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St. just May 9. Call LeeAnn 284·5439
South Padre IslandHELPIII I LOST MY WALLET AT SMC Need summer not off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a WEEKI

employment? Why Mar. 12·19
THURSDAY NIGHT DURING THE MR 
t 0-530 ph. 233·2342 Grace BD 

come to camp this summer? Positions Air $118 
CAMPUS COMPETITION. I THINK IT PITTSBURGH CLUB LUGGAGE 
your sentimental streak Is touching. How WAS LOST IN THE MENS RESTROOM TRUCKSUNDAY, MAY 10. LOOK FOR many Liz's do you know that can hit 17
open for counselors, waterfront, nurse, $25 non-refundable deposit due May 6 
and business manager. Send for appli­Call 239· 7080 
GMAT, NCLEX, LSAT,MCAT, GRE 

IN ANGELA. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE them FLIER LISTING PRICES IN MAIL Also, (s. scale) In one night?
prep couraaa-Kaplan haa all.

cation: ILGSC, 2421 S. Nappanee,
CONTACT ME (t54 DILLON OR C4783) if you want to be on the ballot for next
LSAT cla111a atart 5'12 lor the &15Elkhart, IN 46517.

YOU CAN HAVE THE MONEY AS A year's club officers, call Bill Boyle at 272· Annle,Babs,Keeka & Monl, Much thanx
LSAT. Raaarva your place. Call 272­

Maggie: Here's looking at you, kid. W.K. I AEALL Y need a ride to D.C. or N. 
REWARD. RON I'LYNN 4135. 9514 or Red x1612 by Saturday. to "a certain someone"lor Introducing me 
to Monl(& consequently to you all)l Be­HEYIIII TO WHOEVER SAVED MY Dear Sloth, cause of you, I know that someday I can 
Carolina on 5"11 or 5"12. I won't take up Dear Fart Blossom--Don't be such a 
Well it's tha last week of classes! Hal·

much space. John 3362. strangerlll Love, Goobar
CAMERA FROM BEING DIPPED IN I know you have my Advocate. Come look back at my Junior year fondly. r
lelujahll I can't wait to get out of herell 1MUD ALONG WITH ME--THANKSIII ....................... Need e just know there are real women over tonight and give IT to me. I'll be realize It hasn't always been easy to ba
female some ELIZABETH GERRISH

BUT, PLEASE, I NEED IT BACK NOW. waiting, cutie. my lrlend...a dozen you alit I
somewhere out there and I'm going to roses to 

roommate CELLIST EXTRAORDINAIRE
CALL ME AT 272-9361. -THE GIRL Love Mr. Leather love you and will miss you dearly over
lind one or else I'm going to die a single

tor this summerll ELIZABETH GERRISH
WITHOUT A NIKON the summer. Mlcman. ljusl refuse to lower my standards!
Have cheap apt. CELLIST EXTRAORDINAIRE 
Call Mary x4311 SEE THE AMAZING IBIS, ALIVE. IN
I WANT MY JEAN JACKETIIIII IF YOU LAST MINUTE FRENCH TUTORING ·o· They say good things don't lasl
70s tunes 70s tunes 708 tunes 
CONCERT, AT 8:15 SATURDAY NIGHT. 

"MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY ··················~····· BEFORE FINALS. CALL PIERRE AT forever, but the Zepher haan't died and
Sunday night at 11 on WVI'I 
FAN CLUB MEMBERS, LOOK ALIVE/

NIGHT, I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D 23&-5414 OR 277·2282 I plan on driving it when you have your
"December '63" "Rhinestone Cowboy"

Need female roomate DON'T MISS THIS EXCITING OPPOR· "Billy, Don't Be a Hero" Bay City Rollers
RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY 101). BMW. I love you. Mar-Bar 
for this summer TUNITYI ELIZABETH GERRISH
PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT Bee Gees Shaun Cassidy and much
Have cheap apt CELLIST EXTRAORDINAIRE
BACK---NO HARD FEELINGS. Hey POLE from CROOKED STICK, I ASSON, KEN With deep sorrow NO an·
more with the king of tacky muelc Donald 

Call Mary x4311 LEGSI LEGS! LEGSI
MONICA Ct337 heard every word in Margueritaville. Shut nouncea Ace's 21st b·day. The period of
Seymour mourning will be observed at mldnighl loot. .. a gold loop earnng somewhere near at NO: So. Saturday &3 & will continue on Sunday
Fear & Loathing Monarch summer or Quad frl 1Opm and yet again at Hey Alice, What's the Scoop? ( ...only 16 
CHICAGO-BOUND GRADSII

Sorln, Lewis and Stepan Courts on Need room off campus for with hangovers. In lieu of money and
Female Roommate needed.

roommates to share apartment. Call Phil Sr. Bar sat 1130pm for everyone's late more daysl)
Friday. Sentimental Value II round, call !lowers, send all alcohol to 407 C1791 night entertainment. Yeah,2 Br11 bath. Lincoln
x2297. Reward. Standford. May beautiful memories &
Park apt. June tat. 
they're 4 guys makln some big noise. Piller, What could we do with 10 minutes, hearllelt condolences bring comfort toFor mora Info: call anyway? 
those who mourn his b-day. Why did you Pam (312) 348·6688,SMC'88 have to turn 21?? 
ATTENTION ALL ME'S AND AERO'S. Congratuletlona Matt HillTo the person who took my denim Jacket FOR SALE 

............................................................... 

on Thura ntght at and ASME·AIAA ENGINEERING PICNIC IS For your dedication to your section com-
Cleveland Hoi· GRANDMA HAUSER
NEED RIDE TO NJ ANYDAY AFTER THIS SUNDAY 12·2 IN FRONT OF CUS· rades

lyhock, thank you lor return1ng my I.D. HAPPY 21st
MAY 12. PREPARED TO SHARE GAS

FOR SALE:1978 VW AABBIT,GOOD HING. COME PLAY VOLLEYBALL AND For besl personifying the spirit of section 
but I would appreciate geHing my jacket Hope this Sat. "makes out" as good aa
& DRIVING CALL 272-6594

CONDITION,$1 ,200,239-5693. '?I!'I'ClfltuNCH WITH YOUR "FAVORITE" 3
back No questions will be asked. Please last Sat. Love, B & M 
PROFS. GRAD STUDENTS, FACULTY To you Mart Hill we dedicate the In·call me at 4553 

THANK YOU ST. JUDE P.N.

FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER AND I'ROSH WELCOME augural "Mister Section 3 award." 
Fran 

LOADED,SPORTY $1100 283· Attention one and all. Stop by Room 124 
Roses are red Violets are blue This IaWANT TO MAKE HUNDREDS OF DOL· 
Pangborn to congratulate Melt Hill the LARS WORKING ONLY A FEW NIGHTS 

3683,NICK SIGMA TAU DELTA really old Let's try something new: My
INITIATION Mlater Sactlon 3 of 1987 of Pangborn r&d Your face was

face was blue Boy LOST: CHROME DIGITAL WATCH MOVING OFF CAMPUS? A MONTH? Graduating D.J. needs to sell Monday May 4, 7:30pm Hall. Truly Matt, you are Pangborn's I glad you pulled through! HAPPY
stereo system. It's too much of a money­am 

somewhere on campus. This watch was NEED FURNITURE? Library Lounge finest. B-DAY TWINSISTER Love, Liz 
a graduation gift from my parents, so it CALL PERRY 272-2252 Slgn&d,Tom, Kevin, Kirby, Pat, Brian,making opportunity to pass up I Best offer. 
Call Nick at t 060 for details.

has considerable sentimental value. It MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE Mike, Phil, Bill, Jeff M., J.C., Bill G., Liz-Happy B-dayl I love you-Even If you you lind It please let me know. The watch BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA Upl • The Townie Den, Jack, Rob F., Jeff L., Stave, Rob, are the less than batter half. Gotchat
JERSEY BOUND??? NEED AIDE TO

has the name "Jesse" engraved on the Ed, Tim, end Juatln Love, Fran
CENTRAL JERSEY FOR THE SUM­

back, and the lnlliala "BCHS." Call jesse Three hotel rooms at the Holiday Inn. 
MER. WILL SHARE ALL EXPENSES.

at x2055. BIKE AND CAR RACK FOR SALE, CALL Please call if wanted: 283·1548 FAMOUS LAST WORDS FRANK-3043, $50 OR BEST OFFER HELPII PLEASE CALL SUE AT £4041. Paul Daggs Consider yourself SCOPE OJ 
LOST Women's Gold Selko Quartz "Now before we end and then begin, Claaaltl&d Ads for The Observer's Com· Watch on Saturday Near the Mudplts. it Full Plonnr Syatem: Digital Quartz We'll drink a toast to how's It's been. A To the Floor Wing of B.P.· Keep mencement laaue (May 15) will ba ao­
St. Jude, help me remember. tat 

Found Please Call 283-2112. Tuned Receiver, Fu/1-Funcffonal Auto­few more hours to be complete, A few smiling. Good luck on finals. Thanks lor cept&d soon. Watch Monday's Obaervllf Reverse Tape Deck, Direct-Drive Tumt· ·A Friend In Need more nights on satin sheets, A lew more making this year fun. You guys are the for details. able, Acoustic Speakers, Glass Stereo times that I can say, I've loved these bestlll STEPH Senlora: Cabinet. Call Dave x3136. days." 8pelk now,
RALLY FOR JUSTICE MAY 1, 3:15 AD 
Billy Joel or FOREVER 
BLDG

'81 MAZDA RX7, 5-spd., excellent con­"I've loved these days" hold your ...-. dition. 49,000 miles. Air, AMFM stereo, 
WHO'S THERE? REWARD new tires, brakes & clutch, t-owner, as­
NJ Club TRUCKS CALL TO RESERVE 
SPACE & GET INFO JOHN 2215 DEB 284·5147 KEVIN 1791 WE NEED THE UNI'ORGETABLE QUAD Kolle and Shmed 

-RE\~AFID REWARD IF YOU FOUND A king ss.soo. 2n·2365 Bob. JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 
GOLD COLORED SEIKO HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO AT ST.MARY'S ON Californian selling authentic 'beach CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER·
ENOUGH RESERVATIONS IN ORDER Congratulations! Good lick next year. I'H TO RUN A SENIOR & UNDERGRAD mlaa you both.

PLEASE CALL DAVE AT cruiser' blke:$50 or best offer Also selling VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS hll now wltneiMd "THE UNFOR· YOU WILL RECEIVE A MONE· "huge" electric lan:$25 or best offer. Call THIS SPRING. GETABlE FIRE"
TRUCK. CALL BY FAI 5PM.DRIVERS 3our little sister (yours too Shmed). Kart 

REWARD. 283-2542. MIGHT BE NEEDED ALSO. CALL CHICAGO mey never ba tha umel Gat SOON II 
payched glrla, FOURTH FLOOR HERE SILVER DIAMOND CUT Commodore 84 For Sale Call John at JUNIORS, JUNIORS, JUNIORS: 
WE COMEIIIIfllllllllllllll A word of advice lor Ed Junkins: 
Nllla wafers are the only kind to

BANGLe-BRACELET 1156 MONARCH HAND IN YOUR PROFILE FORM TO MOVING O.C.??? Good couch, shelves. use.'.'.but never forget the boy with the
FOUND PLEASE CALL NOELLA AT at CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· baan. Good luck next year at Jlohns Hop·OR CONTACT AT 411 LEWIS FOR SALE: 1975 CHEVY NOVA. 89,000 Senior Bar VICES BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS dresser and recliner lor sale. Cost you a 
I'D BE INDEBTED TO YOU/ original miles. Snow tires Included. $800 Saturday 11 :30 pm THIS SPRING. hid more than coming to pick It up. Mike kina. Don't lorvet ua. Quad 324 Of beet offer. 283·2541, TONY. Of Steve 2n·3786 
The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 12 
Demons Begone is early favorite in 113th running of Derby 



Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Phil Hauswald, who failed to win the 1986 Kentucky Derby with a 60­1 shot, will go after the 113th Derby Saturday with favored Demons Begone. 
"He thinks he's king of the world right now," the 28-year­old trainer said of the colt, who is unbeaten in three starts this year, including the Arkansas Derby. 
"He thinks he can beat anybody.'' 
Demons Begone was the 5-2 early favorite to beat 16 other 3-year-olds and give Hauswald, a native of nearby New Albany, Ind., a Derby victory in his second try. Last year, he saddled Bachelor Beau to finish 14th in a 16-horse field. 
The last favorite to win the 1 V4-mile Derby at Churchill Downs was Spectacular Bid, who went off at 3-5. 
Free agents to sign with teants 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tim Raines is expected to re-sign with the Montreal Expos Friday and Rich Gedman and Ron Guidry are close to rejoining the teams they tried to leave, ending their unsuccessful efforts to find new homes. 
A meeting between Raines and the Expos was scheduled for one minute after midnight Friday, the first day since Jan. 8 on which free agents can negotiate with their former clubs. 
Gedman seemed certain to reclaim his slot on the catching-poor Boston Red Sox, and Guidry is likely to return to the New York Yankees' pitching staff. 
But the futures of Bob Boone and Doyle Alexander were un­clear. The California Angels have filled Boone's catching spot with Butch Wynegar and the Atlanta Braves have not shown much interest in Alex­ander. 
Andre Dawson, Lance Par­rish and Bob Horner, the other three premier free agents, have found new teams. Dawson left Montreal and signed with the Chicago Cubs at a substan­tial pay cut, and Parrish departed Detroit and joined Philadelphia for less money. Bob Horner left the Braves and 
The wide open aspect of this year's Derby is reflected in the morning line. 
The entry of Gulch and Leo Castelli, trained by LeRoy Jol­ley, was made 4-1, while Cryp­toclearance was listed at 5-l, and Alysheba, Masterful Adv­ocate and Bet Twice each were rated 6-1. Trainer D. Wayne Lukas' entry of Capote, War, and On The Line was made 8-1. 
Demons Begone, owned by John Ed Anthony, can earn a $1 million bonus offered by Oaklawn Park to any horse who sweeps the Rebel and Arkansas Derby at Oaklawn and the Ken­tucky Derby. 
Saturday's winner also will take a first step toward one of two bonuses. 
Triple Crown Productions, Inc., is guaranteeing $5 million, including winners' purses in the three races, to any 3-year­old who sweeps the Derby, 
signed with the Yakult Swal­lows in Japan. 
Dave Kingman, Tom Seaver and Lonnie Smith were among several others who became free agents when their former teams did not offer new con­tracts. Those players can go anywhere, although clubs may wait to sign them until June 1 when it will not cost them a draft pick. 
Raines, Gedman and Guidry all talked with other clubs, but none of the proposals ap­proached offers they got from 


FESTIVAL 

Preakness and Belmont Stakes. 
Any 3-year-old competing in all three races also can earn a $1 million bonus by amassing the most points, which will be awarded on a basis of 5 for a win, 3 for second, and 1 for third. 
If 17 start, the Derby will be worth a record $793,600, with a record $618,600 to the winner. 
ABC will televise from 4:30 to 6 p.m. EDT. posttime will be 5:38p.m. 
Completing the Derby field are Shawklit Won, Templar Hill, Momentus, Avies Copy, Candi's Gold and No More Flowers. Templar Hill, Momentus and A vies Copy will 
be coupled as the mutuel field for betting purposes. 
Demons Begone, who has won six of nine career starts, will start from the No. 10 post under Pat Day. 
their former teams. That resulted in renewed charges of collusion by the players' union, which claims that owners have conspired to restrict free-agent movement and increasing salaries. 
The union has filed two griev­ances through their collective 
bargaining process, and one of them is in the hearing stage before an arbitrator. 
The free agents who return 
C way
to their clubs may face salary .....,_______________________, 
cuts because of the time they missed. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
newspaper Be a part of it. 



~ . 
Friday, May 1: 
Art Exhibit at 
O'Shaughnessy 
Mall come vote on student projects! 

Thursday, April 30, 8:00 p.m.: Library Auditorium Artist Paul Soldner will speak about Art and Contemporary Art. 
A¥Photo 
Leo Castelli seems unimpressed that he is one of the favorites in Saturday's running of the Kentucky Derby. A Derby preview appears at left. 

''Cfll ~ /l/l "' 
~OUJe/(g 0/( Ot~ OCCO~LOI'l~. 
Come in and Browse
3l7l"n1 oln 
232~3354 
TOYOTA CLASS OF'B7 
Nr::::J"" IT'S POSSIBLE TO BUY DR LEASE A NEW .,...r,~..........A
~••
WITH NO DOWN PAYMENT. 
Graduates: Hyou'\111 ~a verifl8ble job offer. we want to get )IOU end )lOUr off toe great lllart-wilh e branc1-NwToyo~a. ToyotaMotorCred~~end)IOUrper-
Bu... IT DR LE IT.
ASE • ticipatingToyota dealer are now making~ possible to get the eted~ )IOU -..,withtwo Class ol'87"quid< appr011al" financing programs. 
H)IOU qualify,)IOU can buy orlease e ..wToyota and generallyno down payment or lei:Untv-~ deposit will be requirad.'YIIhatll more,we can 0\lllfl process )IOU' loan will'lin~ hours.'' See)!OUr participatingToyota dealerfor program opecifoc:a. 
To apply,you'! r-.c:le current driver'o licenoe and proofof employment orjob olfer.•-vou meyfind it helpful to bring elong eny benk or credit card numbers. Once )IOU're app!lll/8d. )IOU can teke )lOUr choiat ofthe mostexciting ine of..wearsand trud<sToyota hu-offered. including 
1---·•~alk>ewCorollaFlU6GT·SI.iftbacl<. 
CDUL.D~ TOYOTA 

~AN't'THNri MOI'IE! 

333 Western Ave. Downtown South Bend 237-4999 Open Mon& Thur 'til 9P.M. 

The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987 -page 13 

APPtWto 

Spud Webb and the Atlanta Hawks were night but look to clinch their best-of-five series grounded by the Indiana Pacers Wednesday Friday night. Details appear at right. 

MISSING!! 
The large bannerbelonging 
to the Notre Dame chapter of PHI BETA MPPA has been taken from the 
LibraryAuditorium Lounge. 
This banner is needed for initiation ceremonies on Commencement weekend. The return of this irreplaceable item will be greatly appreciated. 

This is it until SENIOR WEEK 
The Club will be Closed During Finals. 
All Weekend enior Cup Drafts $.75 
Saturdab'· The Band MOffi\RCH 
from 11 :30-1 :30 

Come Listen to the Nazz Competition Winners 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~• SOCIE1Y~ 
Hawks look to clinch after rude awakening 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The In­diana Pacers may have caught the Atlanta Hawks looking ahead, a mistake they don't want to repeat when the clubs meet Friday for Game 4 in their best-of-five series NBA playoff. 
"We got a rude awakening," said Atlanta's Randy Wittman of Wednesday's 96-87 loss in Market Square Arena after the Hawks opened the series with two victories on their home court. 
Wittman, an Indianapolis na­tive and a member of the 1981 NCAA champion Indiana Uni­versity team, admitted the NBA's Central Division cham­pions "could have been looking ahead" to a, second-round matchup against Detroit. 
The Pistons, having swept their best-of-five series with Washington, can now rest while the Hawks and Pacers com­plete their series. Game 4 is scheduled Friday here at Mar­ket Square Arena and the final game, if necessary, will be Sun­day in Atlanta. 
Wittman also thought the home crowd of 12,303 provided some help in Indiana's first­ever NBA playoff victory. 
"The fans here are always great," he said. "I'm sure the crowd added a little spark to their (Pacers) game." 
Wittman, who had 15 points on seven-of-10 shooting from the field and one free throw, 
SAB PUBLICITY COMMISSION 
is looking for committee members for next year. Positions are available for anyone with artistic, creative, or organizational ability. Information sheets and applications can be picked up in the SAB Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Move Yourself, All Your Staff, ,llfiiii/IJ-And Save,Tool--.., 


and Dominique Wilkins, who 
led the Hawks with 22, had dif­
ferent ideas on how Atlanta can 
avoid playing a fifth game Sun­
day. 
"The Pacers played well 
defensively," Wittman said. 
"You can't take anything away 
from them. Still, I think we can 
play better offensively. 
"Our game is not 87 points. 
The last two games we've 
kinda stalled offensively. 
We've got to get back to basics 
screen and pass the ball." 
Wilkins, 19 points under his 
average in two victories at At­
lanta, said the Hawks didn't 
play good individual or team 
defense. 
"That's our strong point," he 
declared. 
Wilkins faced an array of 
defenders. But, it was rookie 
Chuck Person, who had 23 
points, 17 rebounds and seven 
assists that did the bulk of the 
bumping and grinding. 
"Person played well," said 
Wilkins, who was just nine of 
23 from the field Wednesday. 
"But we didn't play our type 
game. We didn't hit the boards. 
(Indiana outrebounded Atlanta 
42-31 and held the Hawks to 
three offensive rebounds.) I 
think we were looking to go 
home and get some rest for the 
next series. 
"We didn't come out to play. 
That's as simple as you can put 
it." 
Wilkins thinks the Hawks will 
respond better Friday night. 
"It's going to be tough, but if 
we play half as well as we did 
the other two games (in At­
lanta), we'll come out on top. 
"We have to come out attack­ing and not give 'em any breaks or easy baskets." 
The Pacers demonstrated the scoring balance that has them in the playoffs for only the second time since joining the NBA in 1976. Five players finished in double figures with Herb Williams contributing 19 points to the victory. 
"Our intensity and effort was magnificant," Indiana Coach Jack Ramsay said. 
"A lack of concentration and passing hurt us," said Atlanta Coach Mike Fratello. 
Bosox lose in brawl 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Jim Presley hit two home runs and Scott Bankhead held Boston to five hits as the Seattle Mariners beat the Red Sox 11-2 Thursday night in a game which featured two bench-clearing incidents and a full-scale brawl. 
Bankhead, 4-1, struck out seven and walked one. Loser Bruce Hurst, 2-3, was roughed up for seven runs in 3 2-3 in­nings as the Red Sox lost for the sixth time in their last seven games. 
In the fourth inning when Bankhead hit Mike Greenwell on the wrist. Greenwell,who homered in the second inning, charged the mound but no punches were thrown. 
In the seventh, Boston's Steve Crawford hit Presley in the ankle. Presley started for the mound but was wrestled down by catcher Marc Sul­livan. Many individual fights broke out and both Crawford and Red Sox Manager John McNamara were ejected. 

The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 14 
Gooden adinits cocaine 'Inistake' as COIDIDISSioner gives warning 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Dwight Gooden, warned by Commis­sioner Peter Ueberroth that he faces at least a one-year suspension if he goes back to drugs, admitted Thursday he made a mistake by using cocaine and said he hoped he could put his problem behind him. 
Gooden, who rejoined his New York Mets teammates 24 hours after ending a 28-day stay at a drug treatment cen­ter, will face frequent drug testing. 
"I know I made a mistake and I regret it, but I must turn the page once again because life goes on and I want to put all this behind me," Gooden said, reading from a prepared statement. "I want to get back to doing the things that I like, and that's playing baseball and having fun again." 
The 1985 Cy Young award winner appeared nervous and uncomfortable as he rushed through his remarks in less than a minute at a briefing at Shea Stadium. The Mets had said he would not answer ques­tions. 
Earlier, the 22-year-old pitcher was presented with his 1986 World Series ring and then spent a short time throwing from the mound and running in the outfield. He did not get any exercise other than climbing steps during his stay at the Smithers Alcoholism and Drug Treatment Center. 
The Mets hope Gooden can resume pitching in the. major 
June, but General Manager Frank Cashen emphasized the team would not hurry him. 
About the time Gooden ar­


rived at the stadium, Ueber-
..__. roth's office released a state­ment that said, "Any return to drug use will result in his suspension from baseball for a ..__. 
mimimum period of one year.'' 
The statement also said that Gooden will not be subject to disclipinary action if he con­tinues with the after-care pro­gram, which includes drug testing. 
"We wish Dwight Gooden well in his ongoing rehabilita­tion. We will continue to consult regularly with his doctors and the Mets regarding his prog­ress," the commissioner's statement said. 
Cashen said Greg Pavlick, the Mets' traveling minor pitching coach, would accom-
Mets rout Montreal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Rick Aguilera pitched hitless ball over the final eight innings and Keith Hernandez, Kevin McReynolds, Howard Johnson 
and Dave Magadan homered as the New York Mets defeated the Montreal Expos 11-3 Thursday night. 
Aguilera, 2-1, fell behind 3-0 

in the first inning on Tim Wal­
lach's RBI single and John 
Stefero's two-run homer,
Montreal's final hit. But he al­lowed only two baserunners over the final eight innings,
both on walks. 
pany Gooden on the road once he comes back. But Cashen ad­mitted it would be impossible to monitor the right-hander's off-the-field activities. 
"I think he  can  be  on  his  
own," he said.  
Dr.  Alan  Lans,  associate  

director of Smithers Center, declined to discuss the specifics of Gooden's case and said the pitcher's recovery depends on his after-care pro­
gram. 
"Of people who do follow the program, we can look for suc­cess in 75 percent," Lans said. 
The Mets, who have tried to shield Gooden from the media since his arrival in the majors in 1984 at age 19, plan to be es­pecially protective now. 

The team's clubhouse was closed to the media after the briefing until after Thursday night's game against Montreal. Cashen said no one-on-one in­terviews with Gooden would be allowed in the near future. 
Mets Manager Davey Johnson said Gooden would begin 15 minutes of light throw­ing on Friday and would soon start throwing 10 minutes from the mound every other day. In about three weeks, the Mets hope Gooden can pitch three in­nings in a minor league game. 
Cashen speculated that Gooden could possibly make his 1987 major league debut after the Mets conclude a West Coast trip in the first week of June. 


Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame 
1404 North Ivy Rood South Bend, lndlono 46637 
"Your Home Away From Home" 
For reservo\lons coil (219) 277-9682 
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA

leagues by the first week of 
I._...JI~==~idQ -~~.--~""""""---~~..,.
uallty 35mm sIide 
Up to 20 Dupes of one Slide @ 50c ea. ( Color Correction and Discounts on larger quantities also available ) Contact Christopher in Rm. 13 CCE 239-5465 
Sponsoredby: TheAnti·Aparth.eidNetworkThe Black Cultural .Arts Council 
ur U "ted~ Justi dn 
nomen m ~.or ce an ceace 

AP Photo 
Dwight Gooden, shown leaving the drug treatment center he had been in since April 2, face the press Thursday to talk about his cocaine use. Details appear at left. 
ELMO'S STEREO 
We buy and sell used home stereo equipment We also sell and install new car stereos 
US I 20 & 259 N. Logan St. No. 287-1720 
the picture man 
Will have Senior Formal Pictures available for pickup at 
LaFortune 
Friday, May 1 4:30pm-8:00 pm 
**~******************* 

The Peace Institute "BUILDING TOWARD 
The Notre Dame NAACP ONE SOCIETY" ~~~tl~KQJ~"'dd~@~a'il\J=lr.!=®::_________________________________________j 
JtallY For Justice 

~ 
A~~ 
Friday, On the steps 3:15p.m. May 1st of the (before the picnic) 1987 Administration Building 
A Notre Dame student discussion of: 
APARTHEID IN SOUTH AFRICA RACISM IN THE UNITED STATES 
Student Government 





--~----------------------~------------------------------------------~----------------------------------~--.-------~~-­
The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 15 
Quebec, Islanders win in NHL playoff action 
Associated Press Fraser that denied the Nor­diques the go-ahead goal in the 
QUEBEC -Defenseman Nor­dying minutes of the previous mand Rochefort capped a game, sat in their seats dressed three-goal comeback in the in a referee's uniform, com­third period with a 20-foot wrist plete with zebra-striped bags shot with 4:37 to play and tbe over their heads. Quebec Nordiques sent the The Nordiques didn't have a Adams Division final to a shot on goal until just beyond seventh game by defeating the the ninth minute. The Montreal Canadiens 3-2 Canadiens capitalized on one of Thursday night. the few chances they had, re­
The final game of the NHL sulting in Corson's goal at 9:40. 
series will be played in Corson moved between Roc­
Montreal on Saturday night. hefort and Jeff Brown before 
The Nordiques, who had been catching the corner of the net 
stymied by a textbook defen­to Gosselin's left. 
sive display by the Canadiens Nilan got his second goal of 
until Michel Goulet's goal at the playoffs when he beat Gos­
5:22 of the third period, seemed selin with a screened wrist shot to find new life after their top from about 20 feet. sniper had beaten goalie Brian Hayward. Islanders 4, Flyers 2 
John Ogrodnick, who had. UNIONDALE, N.Y.-veteran missed a number of glorious linemates Mike Bossy and chances in the series, tied it at Bryan Trottier each had a goal 
13:37 with a slapshot from deep and an assist in the first period inside the left faceoff circle. as New York's comeback 
Montreal mounted its 2-0 lead Islanders whipped the with a goal in each of the first Philadelphia Flyers 4-2 two periods. Shayne Corson Thursday night and tied their scored his fourth playoff goal NHL playoff series at three just past the midway mark of games apiece. the opening period, and Chris For the second straight game Nilan beat goaltender Mario against the Flyers and the fifth Gosselin in the fourth minute time in this year's Stanley Cup 
of the second period. playoffs, the Islanders staved But the Canadiens, in trying off elimination. They sent the
Anti-VIolence Activist 
to shut down the Nordiques, Patrick Division finals back to
Cenler tor Teaching Non-VIolence & NCTV IUII·IIme atall. Lodging & 
weren't much of an offensive Philadelphia for a seventh and 
leOO(IIyr. --on aggreaelon. 
threat for Gosselin in the third deciding game Saturday night. 
-nghouM, publlahlng ' lobbying againel -Including TV, film, wat 
period, managing only six In their 15-year history,
loya, aporia, -lea. N•tto U llllnola. Student 1oana defer-. 217-3114-1820. 
shots. which includes NHL champion­
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 811120 
A few of the fans, still miffed ships from 1980-83, the over the call by referee Kerry Islanders are 22-8 in games in 


Happy Birthda 
Father Joe Carey 
Dillon's Finest

Name.________________________~Age______ Address.________________________________ 
From the Guys in 312
State

Ci 
which they've faced playoff elimination. They also won at home for only the second time in these playoffs against four losses. They were 1-7-1 at Nas­sau Coliseum entering Thursday's game. 
Cubs falter in ninth 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Pinch-hitter Harry Spilman singled home the tie-breaking run in the ninth inning Thursday to give the San Francisco Giants a 5-4 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 




..--------------------~--------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------­The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 16 
Midwest Catholic nteet on tap for Irish track 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame track will battle with a short squad as it hosts the sixth an­nual Midwest Catholic Cham­pionships. 
The meet begins at 1 p.m. at the Monogram track behind the ACC. 
Marquette, DePaul and Detroit are the featured squads among the the eight-team field. The Irish expect the toughest competition to come from the Warriors, who have a well­balanced attack that features strong athletes in every event. They are particularly a threat with their distance crew, led by Mike McTiernan and Steve Orthman. 
Notre Dame should hold a sizeable advantage in the field events but will suffer overall with the loss of several team members to the National Invi­tational meet that takes place tomorrow in Indianapolis. 
The Irish will be without the services of senior captain Robert Nobles, junior Nick Sparks and freshman Mike O'Connor, and possibly junior Brian Driscoll and freshman Glenn Watson as well. 
The absence of these mem­bers may prove an important factor on the outcome of the meet. The recent perfor­mances of O'Connor and Wat­son will be missed and the gap will have to be filled by fellow teammates also performing well lately. 
"I think overall we stand a chance of winning the meet," said Irish head coach Joe Piane, "but when we start sen-
Irish 
continued from page 20 

outscored Notre Dame in the second half, 10-1. 
"Michigan State is a very ag­gressive team," noted O'Leary. "They got the lead, and then they ran a lot. Since we were down, we had to run with them, and we wound up giving up a lot of goals." 
The Irish had their opportu­nities to stay in the game, but a missed shot here and a nice save there added up to a 16-5 loss in East Lansing. 
Brian McHugh scored the lone Irish goal in the second half, and co-captain Dave O'Neill and John McNicholas each had an assist in the game. 
The Irish lost more than a game at Michigan State. Senior John McLachlan, Notre Dame's leading scorer, separated his shoulder as he scored the tying goal and is questionable for Saturday's finale in Columbus, Ohio. 
Saturday's game shapes up to be another difficult contest for the Irish, as Ohio State fields a team similar to that of Michigan State. 
"They have a lot of speed and are a very aggressive team," commented O'Leary. "They may not be as talented as MSU, but they will definitely chal­

~~ 
IN VIETNAM "'(,~Q THE WIND DOESN'T BLOW IT ••• 

Stanley Kubrick's 
FULL ETALJAC 
ding guys to other meets it weakens the team con­siderably and that does not help our chances." 
Even without the team at full strength, the Irish hope to do well enough to qualify more people for the IC4A and NCAA Championships before the season comes to an end. 
Garrett and sophomore Ron Markezich have come close to the IC4A qualifying time of 
13:57 in the 5,000-meter run with times of 14:10 and 14:11, respectively. And Watson, who has recorded a time of 14.08 in the 110-meter high hurdles, will try to shave his time down to 
13.88 to qualify as well. 
"Dan Garrett, David Warth and Watson have all been doing very well," said Piane, "and O'Connor has been doing a fine job." 
The Observer/Jim Carroll 
The Notre Dame track team looks to vault a pionships this weekend. Molly Mahoney few more people into the IC4A and NCAA meets preview the meet in her storv at left. as it competes in the Midwest Catholic Cham­

lenge us. "We want to end on an upbeat STARRING WARNm BAD~ PRESENTS ~TANtfY KUBRICK'~ rutt MHAt JAmr note," concluded O'Leary. "A 
MAHHfW MOD!Nf ADAM BAlDWIN VINCfNT D'ONOfRIO lH fRMfY DORIAN HARfWOOO ARtl~~ HOWARD KfVYN MAJOR HOWARD fO O'ROSS

win would be something the younger guys can think about SCREENPL:~ STANtfY KUBRICK MICHAH HfRR GUSTAV HASfORD ~~~~8M~~~R0sv~~ GUSTAV HAS fORD co PRODUCER PHI UP HOBBS ~~6~~w~ JAN HARlAN over the summer and someth­
PR~rR~~\~t~~ STANtfY KUBRICK WARNER BROS~;.!;'!~:.:.:~-,.~~!~:.:·""''"

ing the seniors can remem­ber." 
----------~ -----~~~­
The Observer Friday, May 1, 1987-page 17 

.. 
6-7 pm 
Shenanigans Chorale Glee Club 


After the presentation by Hesburgh: The Bottom Line Bill, Bob & Biff The Law Monarch 

'. 
Friday, May 1, 1987-page 18

The Observer 
Irish to face Xavier as season nears end 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer 
Trying to end a disappointing season on a positive note, the Notre Dame baseball team will face Xavier at home Saturday, and goes to Northwestern Sun­day before returning home for the season finale against those same Wildcats Monday. 
Tomorrow's doubleheader with Xavier will start at noon in "Ethel Merman Day" at Jake Kline Field. The Irish face the Wildcats of Northwestern at 1 p.m. on the following day. The Irish plan to start Brian
• 
Piotrowicz, Kevin Chenail and possibly Mike Passilla during the three games. 
"I haven't been able to see Xavier's team stats, but they have a lot of team speed and a good pitching staff," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "In Jeff Ahr, they have a guy who hits well and steals a lot of bases. "Northwestern is right around .500. They have some good tal­ent and a new coach this year." 
Gallo is hoping these games can help the Irish end the season with a little momentum after suffering through a year which close losses to Big Ten schools and unexpected losses to smaller schools have led to a 13-25 record heading into Thursday's doubleheader with DePauw. 
"My hope is that this team will end up on a winning note," said Gallo. "I don't think the team can go through more ad­versity than it has this year. We haven't had any injuries, but besides that everything that can possibly go wrong has. We just have to keep looking ahead and can't look back." 
Two slumps during the season have hurt Notre Dame's record during the year. The Irish lost eight-straight games early in the season, including four close contests with In­diana, Wisconsin and Michigan State. More recently, the team has lost five-of-six games to Butler, St. Louis, Western Mic­higan, and Purdue, in which 
Irish split at DePauw 
Special to The Observer 
GREENCASTLE, Ind. -Jim Hebert went 2-for-2, scored three runs and stole two bases to lead DePauw to a 5-3 win over Notre Dame and a split of their doubleheader in non­conference college baseball Thursday. 
The Irish won the opener 13-3. 

Joe Klupchak drove in the other two Tiger runs in the second game on a single and a bunt. 
Freshman Ed Kelly, 3-1, went the distance for the win in the second game. 
Mike Coffey evened out his record at 2-2 with the loss. 
In the first game, first baseman Kim Hutson hit a two­run homer to start a four-run third inning for Notre Dame, 14-26. 
Tom Shaw, 3-1, claimed the win for the Irish. Brice Dun­shee, 2-4, took the loss for DePauw, now 16-14. 
every game could have gone either way. 
"We're like 6-14 in games decided in the last inning, extra innings, or in games decided by two runs or less," said Gallo. "If a few of those could have gone the other way, it could have been a lot different. 

"We play a lot of good teams. We're right with them, but they keep just having a little bit more. Being competitive doesn't win you any games, but I can say we're very competi­tive," said Gallo. "It'd have a really appeasing effect to win these after games after what we've gone through the last three weeks. It's been a very trying season, and most of our Not enough scenes like this have cost the Notre players will be back next Dame baseball some close games. In his story season." 



1[()(i(l~------------------~------F-rid-ay,_Ma-y1,_198-7-p-age-19 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Far Side Gary Larson 

&0$1. I ~'lfJ;% I'P 1';0 7tJ 711€ U£5T CC¥15T If I 5~Nt.Y Hfl/1 $12 Mlt.t.kJN, mo. I ~  Fll~tL.' \  



Beernuts Mark Williams 

Campus 
FRIDAY 
12:05 p.m.: Lunch at Senior Bar, spon­sored by ND Management Club 
3:30 p.m.: SMC Varisty Softball, SMC vs. ND, SMC Softball Field 
SATURDAY 9 -10 a.m.: First Saturday Holy Hour 
· 

SUNDAY 
11 a.m. -2 p.m.: Picnic for Neighbor­hood Study Help Program tutors and tutees, Stepan Center 
7 p.m.: SMC Dept. of Music Faculty Chamber Music Recital (member of the South Bend Sysmphony Orchestra), Little Theatre 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
of Reparation, Corby Hall Chapel, Blessed The Student's Tribute to Father Res­Sacrament exposed, All welcome burgh and Father Joyce beginning at 
10 a.m.: Midwest Catholic Track Cham-4:30 p.m. on Green Field pionship, Outdoor Track Saint Mary's 
12 p.m.: Baseball, ND vs Xavier Uni-Braised Swiss Steak w/ Country versity, Jake Kline Field Cream Gravy
Chicken Fried Steak 7 p.m.: SMC Music Dept. Senior Recital, Cheese Enchilada Christine Cox, soprano, Little Theatre Baked Cod 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Pealed  
5 Sam the sleuth  
10 Crop of a bird  
14 "It's a sin  
to tell-"  
15 Tripod  
16 Drag  
17 Timber tree  
19 Blue dye  
20 Inhabitants:  
suff.  
21 Social  
reformer  
22 Noted Stan  
24 Br. composer  
25 Examine  
26 Mine car  
29 Hardwood tree  
34 Jesse of N.C.  
36 Satisfy  
37 Zodiac sign  
38 Boca­ 
39 Ocean: abbr.  
40 Peruses  
42 Wood sorrel  
43 Relaxation  
45 Tanning shrub 46 Paper tree  C1967 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  5/1/87  
50 Columnist  
Barrett  6 --mache  
51 Venezuela  7 Sale term  
mining town  8 Nest  
52 Sunday paper  9 Part  
section  10 VIrtuous  
54 Formal spilt  11 Raja's lady  
57 Goddess queen  12 Inter­ 
58 Once around  13 Source of oil  
the track  18 Hockey great  
61 Spoken  23 Theater  
62 Decorative  attendants  
tree  24 Gunner's need  
65 Wolfe the  25 Blue duck  
sleuth  26 Pitch  
66 Bird of prey  27 Extend  
67 Ripening  28 Asian mountain  
factor  30 Chemical  
68 Prophet  compound  
69 Refinery waste  31 "Remember  
70 Pull suddenly  the-"  44 Dropped a  55 Indian  
32 Fortification  nuclear weapon  56 Rabbit  
DOWN  33 La Scala  47 Expert at 50  57 Author VIctor  
1 Comic Martha  offering  48 Fish baskets  58 Sled  
2 Pub drinks 3 Cairo's river 4 Congeal 5 Needlework  35 Shows contempt 39 Part of Earth 41 Kangaroo  49 Clydesdales 53 Strike lightly 54 Heirs  59 Maple genus 60 Become lively 63 Malay gibbon 64 Rule in India  





You Wanted to Know About Sex 
Tonight and Saturday Nite 
Engineering Auditorium 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.00 Absolutely no food or drink allowed 
Friday, May 1, 1987-page 20

S~orts 
-
·­
a•~ 

Era draws to close in weekend tennis action 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame men's tennis team plays its matches this weekend, it will be more than just the wrap up of the reg­ular season. It will be the end of an era. The matches against Michigan State and Kalamazoo mark the last days of Tom Fal­lon's coaching career at Notre Dame. 
And what a career it has been. Fallon is the winningest coach in Notre Dame history, and his 516-201 record over 34 years is nothing short of in­credible. This year's team has overcome a slow start because of injuries to put together an­other typically fine Fallon season. 
"The 1959 NCAA champion­ship team was the best team, no doubt," said Fallon, looking back on his career. "But I wouldn't trade any season, win or lose, for anything." 
The word 'lose' has not often been a part of the men's tennis team vocabulary during Fal­lon's tenure. Only two of his teams have had losing seasons, and ten have topped the twenty victory mark, including the 1987 squad. The 1959 champions went 14-0, and the 1966 team had 15 victories without a defeat. 
Not only have the teams been winners on the court, but the members have also made thier marks academically. Fallon has always been an Irish coach who emphasizes the student in student-athlete. 
"The teams have been great, but we've always kept tennis in the proper prospective," said Fallon. "Most every player has graduated and is doing well. We've had fun with the game but never lost sight of the main objective -a college degree. season, the Irish record stands That's the most important at 22-11 going into the final thing." home weekend. Fallon doesn't 
--:;,.,. 

think his leaving has provided any extra incentive for the team. 
"That's a nice thought," he said. "We had the injuries ear­ly, but now everyone is playing well, playing up to potential. 
When that happens, things fall into place. 
"Once you get on a win streak, there's extra incentive to keep it up." 
The Irish try to continue the streak against Michigan State tomorrow and Kalamazoo Sun­Tom Fallon 
day. 
This year's team matches up "We're going to have two favorably to those of the past. really good matches," The Irish are working to make predicted Fallon. "Michigan Fallon's last season one to re­State has a similar record to member. Despite being a ours. They've had about the young team and suffering same scores as ours against many injuries early in the teams we've both played. Also, 


Mike Qui~le! (14) scored one of five Irish goals in a 16-5 loss at Mtchtgan St. Wednesday. Chris Dallavo details the 
Call this the dead letter office if you will. Or bet­ter, spring cleaning. There are a few things left to touch on before clearing out for the summer. 
First, pro wrestling. I love it. So it's fake. So what? They used to pack 'em in at the Coliseum for Christians and Lions, and everyone knew who was gonna win that one. Pro wrestling is a chance to go scream and have a great time. 
It's classic good guys anp bad guys. It lets out a lot of stress and aggression, especially if you've pulled an all-nighter the night before to get that government paper handed in on time. It's not a pure sport but for a good time, pro wrestling can't be beat. 
Second, Bookstore Basketball. Steve Wenc and his crew indeed are to be commended for this year's tourney. After a sticky situation with team names, the 16th edition of the tourney had some great games and teams. The refereeing wasn't that great, and the final was marred by racial slurs, but it was a super tourney. 
Third, Wrigley Field. Up until Wednesday, I had been privileged to see the Cubs lone home win on my first trip to the friendly confines. If you've never been, go. It's a super park. 
We sat upstairs, way upstairs, but the view was still perfect. Of course with the wind blowing it was it's a Big Ten school, so that's always a tough challenge for us." 
Kalamazoo will be another challenge for the Irish, who narrowly defeated them last season, 5-4. 
"Like Michigan State, they have a good record and nearly identical scores against teams we've both played," said Fal­lon. 
So Coach Fallon will take his .720 winning percentage into retirement and leave his young team and incredible legacy to his successor. This seems to be a year of good-byes at Notre Dame, and, as in the cases of Father Hesburg and Father Joyce, the sucessor will have a hard time following the career of Tom Fallon. 
"It's been very wonderful, very enjoyable," said Fallon of his long career. "Good people, good times, and good tennis." 
Lax faces OSU after MSU loss 
BY CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer 
Let's just say, it wasn't pretty. The Notre Dame lacrosse team fell Wednes­day to a hungry Michigan State squad by a 16-5 score and now must face a similar Ohio State team Saturday in a showdown for second place in the Great Lakes Conference. 
"They (Michigan State) played par­ticularly well, and we didn't," said an obviously disappointed Head Coach, Rich O'Leary. "They came out with fire in their eyes and took it to us." 
O'Leary wasn't kidding. The Spar­tans scored twice before Notre Dame was able to even touch the ball, and it was 3-0 before the Irish finally set up its offense. 
When the offense finallly arrived, it was effective. Goals by freshman midfielder Mike Quigley and juniors Tom Lanahan and Art Brady tightened the game up. When John McLachlan tallied, the score was knotted at four. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, that would be the lone highlight of the after­noon, as Michigan State went on to take a 6-4 halftime lead. The Spartans then 
see IRISH, page 16loss as well as Notre Dame's season finale at Ohio St. Sat­urday in his story at right. 
Odds & Sodds 
little cold under the roof of the upper deck. OK, a lot cold, but Wrigley is still something special. If only the team could live up to the greatrtess of its field, but I guess that's part of Wrigley's mystique, 

Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 
Fourth, Special Olympics. If you're going to be here this summer, try to help if you can. You won't regret it. The event here will be at true Notre Dame moment. Don't miss out. 
Fifth, some personal goodbyes. The first to Irish men's tennis coach Tom Fallon. One of my first stories for The Observer was on his team, and this weekend he will coach in his final two matches of his 34-year career. Wait a minute, didn't somebody named Hesburgh begin his job a year before that? Both he and Fallon have pretty good records. The second goodbye, although it's not really goodbye, is to Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith. I spent most of last year's season as the hockey beat writer and got to know Smith pretty well. After interviews, he always had a few minutes just to chat. 
While Smith won't be behind the boards for the Irish for the first time in 19 years, he will be over at the new Loftus Indoor Athletic Facility currently under construction. Still it will be odd not to have the man who brought hockey back to Notre Dame after a 41-year absence on the bench. 
The third goodbye is to women's basketball coach Mary Distanislao. She is simply· a class act. I re­member interviewing her at midseason when the Irish were in more than just trouble, yet she an­swered all questions about the situation forthrightly and honestly. We also had an ongoing and friendly verbal sparring match throughout the season after I wrote some snide comment about about her team's new 'gold' uniforms. Myself and the rest of the sports staff will miss her. She is a good friend. But, Coach, those uniforms, yech. 
Finally, I'd like to say thank you to all the Irish coaches and administrators who took time out from their hectic schedules and talk to my writers. We really appreciate it. The same goes to the Sports Information Department. They are the most most cooperative and helpful people. Thanks from all of us for all your help. See you in the fall. 






