
Cloudy, warm. 
l 
IACCENT: 'I was a freshman dork' Mostly cloudy with a 70 per­cent chance of rain. Highs of 70 to 75. Tomorrow: warm with 
IVIEWPOINT: Malloy praises efforts 
a 60 percent chance of rain. 



WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1987 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tuition hike 


U.S. simplifies
outpaces 


inflation arms agreement 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Associated Press negotiations and will include 
Managing Editor on-site inspection." 
GENEVA-The United States In Washington, State Depar­
For $855, you can buy 107 presented new proposals on tment spokesman Phyllis Oak­
Notre Dame ties, 66 sweat Tuesday that it said wwld ley was asked whether the new 
shirts or 21 video cassettes of simplify verification U.S. position drops some in­
"Knute Rockne -All Ameri­procedures under a U.S.-Soviet trusive measures, including in­
can" at the bookstore. agreement to do away with all spection of factories and intel­
Or you can pay for this year's intermediate-range nuclear ligence monitoring sites. 
increase in tuition at Notre missiles. She replied: "There are two 
Dame. Members of the American major changes in this. One is 
In a letter to parents last delegation submitted the we have changed our 'suspect
June, University President Fa­proposals in a meeting of the site' inspection proposal be­
ther Edward Malloy said the negotiating teams dealing with cause the opportunity for ille­
University's operating budget Intermediate Nuclear Forces -gal missile activities are signif­
of $189,463,100 would require a medium-and shorter-range icantly reduced when an entire 
9.9 percent increase in tuition weapons with ranges from 300 class of missiles and its in­to $9,480. to 3,000 miles. frastructure has been The room, board and laundry U.S. spokesman Terry eliminated. 
charge was also increased by Shroeder said that Soviet ac­
$150, or 5.5 percent, increasing ceptance in July of eliminating "Also, we have dropped our 
the average fee to $2,875. all intermediate weapons, requirement for perimeter­
At Saint Mary's, tuition called the double-zero option, portal monitoring. This was jumped 4.9 percent to $7,380, had enabled the United States done because the perimeter­said Les Hitchcock, chief ac­to change its verification re­portal monitoring system was countant at Saint Mary's. quirements. designed to monitor the flow of Average room and board also Before the Soviet announce­missiles from production and increased 4.9 percent to $3,260. ment, the plan had been for final assembly facilities. 
Undergraduates aren't the each superpower to keep 100 "With the production ban and only ones paying higher tuition medium-range weapons on its the elimination of all INF bills, however. Tuition for own territory. (Intermediate Nuclear Notre Dame graduate, MBA "Today we are laying out Forces) missiles within three and law students was also how this simplification could be years this would be unneces­hiked $855. Tuition for graduate achieved," Schroeder said, sary."students is now $9,360, for MBA adding that the U.S. proposals, Shroeder would not givestudents $9,460, and law stu­"although simplified, will still details of the proposals, citing dents $10,070. be the most stringent ever pro­the confidentiality rule the two 
The story is the same around posed in any U.S.-Soviet sides have adopted in the talks. the country. Average tuition and fees climbed 8 percent at private, 
Renovations congest North Dining Hall four-year colleges and 6 per­cent at public institutions, the By ERIC BERGAMO lem, since the rooves over the Hickey said students in fortable, this is what you'reseventh straight year such Staff Reporter entrances have been torn Cavanaugh, St. Ed's, Breen­going to do." costs will outpace inflation, ac­down. Phillips and Lewis Halls are Hickey is also asking that cording to the College Board's Construction on the North When the two-year renova­being asked to use South Dining students make an effort to eat annual survey of colleges. Dining Hall will present a num­tion moves inside the dining Hall during the renovation of at different times to prevent
Average total estimated ber of problems for students hall, the dining area will be North Dining Hall. congestion. costs at four-year private during meal times, said progressively cut in thirds and The renovation will consist of schools is less than $12,000 and William Hickey, director of sealed off with construction Students will not be forced to a two-story complex that will at public schools almost $5,800. University Food Services. walls, Hickey said. eat in the South Dining Hall, add 300 new seats and private
Notre Dame and Saint The fence surrounding the "There will be times when we Hickey noted. dining rooms at the north and Mary's officials cited in-site makes getting to the will literally take a third of the "We're only suggesting that south ends of the building 
entrances difficult, he said. dining space away from the as a part of the comfort zone," 
see TUITION, page 4 Waiting outside is also a prob-dining hall," he said. he said. "Ifyou want to be com-see DINING, page 4 

Keenan resident dies in summer car accident 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor  also pronounced dead on the scene, the article said.  nicke lost control of the car. Blood tests indicated neither  
The driver of the van, Roger  McCarthy, Rennicke, nor the  
A Keenan Hall sophomore-to­ Hanke,37,ofWausau,survived  van's driver were drinking.  
be was killed earlier this sum­ the accident, sustaining head  McCarthy was buried June 12  
mer in an automobile accident  and body injuries.  in Wausau, according to  
that also claimed the life of the  According to the article, Ren­ Keenan Hall rector Brother  
student's friend.  nicke's car was traveling  Bonaventure Scully.  
northbound on a stretch of dry  
Joseph McCarthy, 18, a Navy  road, just west of the Wausau  McCarthy liked to live life to  
ROTC midshipman from  city limits. As the car reached  the fullest, Scully said. He was  
Wausau, Wis., was pronounced  the crest of a small hill, Ren­ a member of the Navy Drill  
dead on the scene at 9:07 the  nicke lost control, veering into  team and color guard, as well  
night of June 10 by the Marat­ the southbound lane, striking  as the Marine Corps Semper  
hon County coroner, after the  the van.  Fidelis. He also earned a  
car in which he was riding went  The two vehicles then  second-degree black belt in tae  
out of control and struck a van  tumbled into a ditch where they  kwan do.  
traveling in the opposite direc­ came to rest, the van on top of  University President Father  
tion, according to an article in  the car, the article said.  Edward Malloy will celebrate  
the Wausau Daily Herald.  The Marathon County  a mass for McCarthy Sept. 10  
The driver of the car, Robert  Sheriff's department was not  in Sacred Heart Church, said  
Rennicke, 18, of Wausau, was  able to determine why Ren- Scully.  Joseph McCarthy  


page 2 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 





In Brief 
More women and minorities than ever before have entered Notre Dame this year. About 670 of the 1,820 stu­dents expected to enroll this year will be women, according to the admissions office. Also, about 180 freshmen, or 10 percent of the class, are minority students. More than 500 women entered Saint Mary's this semester. -The Observer 
Study lounges became home for 111 freshmen this semester. No Saint Mary's students were moved into tem­porary housing. The Office of Student Residences said the displaced Notre Dame freshmen will be moved into per­manent residences as soon as spaces become available, based on how soon the students returned their' confirmation forms. The office said it had "no idea of a time frame" in which the students will get permanent housing. -The Observer 
No drugs was the verdict given by congressional Iran-Contra mvestigators in a memo released Tuesday on allegations that Nicaraguan Contra leaders trafficked in drugs. A top CIA official said "a lot of people" associated with Eden Pastora, the former Contra leader based in Costa Rica, were linked to cocaine trafficking. One of the reasons the CIA cut its connection with Pastora in 1984 was drugs, a CIA official said. -The Observer 
What happened? is the question still plaguing federal investigators two weeks after the crash of Northwest Flight 255 near Detroit. The National Transportation Safety Board said preliminary tests to determine whether circuit breakers on the alarm system were pulled by the airliner's crew were inconclusive. More refined tests on the wreckage have been ordered. -The Observer 
Its bark was worse than its bite as a falling limb from a hickory tree killed a 58-year-old Washington County, Ind. man Monday. Taylor Gibson, of Campbel­lsburg, died instantly when a large limb hit the top of his head, said Monroe County Coroner Dennis Troy. The ac­cident occurred minutes after workers had chopped down a nearby poplar tree. Troy said the falling poplar tree may have loosened the dead limb that fell on Gibson, fracturing his skull. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
All classes are cancelled at Notre Dame Wednesday, Sept. 23 for the inauguration of Father Edward Malloy as the University's 16th president. The Hesburgh Library will also be closed that day from 2-7 p.m. Inaugural ceremonies will include a mass at 10 a.m. in the Joyce ACC, an aca­demic procession beginning at 2: 15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Mall, and an academic convocation at 3 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
All theater enthusiasts are invited to a welcome back party tonight at 7 in the Washington Hall scenography lab. -The Observer 
Auditions for "Death of a Salesman" will be held Thursday, Aug. 27, and Friday, Aug. 28. Call-backs will be held Saturday, Aug. 29 and Sunday, Aug. 30. Sign up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or at the theater party. -The Observer 

Design Editor . ............... Chris Donnelly ..................................... Melissa Warnke Design Assistant ............ Heather Hypes ..................................... Kathleen Moran Typesetters ..................... Shawn Sexton News Editor........ .............. Regis Coccia ........................................... Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ...................... Karen Webb 
Tile Oblener (USPS S99 24000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation pr.riods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina Tile Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Observer is a member of Tlie Asaetlu!ecl Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Sports Copy Editor........... Theresa Kelly ...................................... Dennis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Chris Murphy Accent Copy Editor ........ Mike Naughton Typists......... .. ..... Katie Gugle ND Day Editor ..................... Maria Doti Ad Design ......................... Mike Whitton Photographer ....................... Jim Carroll 

Sneak a peek at us: The Observer needs you 
With the beginning of the school year comes 
the need for The Observer to recruit new staff members. Because we are produced by only students every day, it is necessary to have a large number of people working to keep the newspaper coming out consistently. 
There are a lot of people at Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's who do not know what we at The Observer do on the third floor of LaFortune every day and night. I'm not surprised; we never really explain what we do up here. 
So given the fact that this is the beginning of the school year, and that we are now graced with roughly 2,250 new members of this com­munity who may be interested in working here, I thought I would take a stab at explaining what goes into putting out your daily newspaper. 
Every day Sunday through Friday, some of the members of our staff of more 200 students are up at the offices working on The Observer. Our doors open at 8 a.m. when our office manager Shirley Grauel comes in and close about 20 hours later when our design editor for the night leaves with the "flats." 
Our paper gets picked up at the main gate by a gentleman from South Bend who is con­tracted to drive it down to our printing plant in Milford, Ind. (about one hour from campus), where 10,500 copies are printed for campus dis­tribution and roughly 2,000 copies are prepared for our subscribers. The finished product is then brought back to campus for delivery to the various drop spots. 
But the above is just the mechanical part; the student work at The Observer is done be­tween the hours of 8 a.m. and 4 a.m. With the unbelievable amount of money it takes to run a daily newspaper, the student monetary sup­port that we receive at The Observer covers about one quarter of our operating costs each year. Therefore, there is a need for students to sell advertising for the paper in order to support the majority of our operation. Each day, our advertising representatives make calls to and visit businesses in South Bend to talk about ad­vertising in The Observer. These ad reps not only get sales experience but also receive a commission from their sales. After this, our advertising design department makes up the ads for display in the paper. 
Closing out the business side of the newspaper is a small business department that handles our accounting and collecting, etc. Any of the above departments offers excellent business ex­perience for anyone who is looking for some responsibility and an extra line on the resume. 
The editorial side of the paper is made up of editors, writers, copy editors and page desig­ners. Besides the material that we take off the Associated Press wire every night, the stories and columns in The Observer are written by 
ALL IN ONE NIGHT 
Ticket Sale for 

NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS I FACULTY I STAFF will take 
place this FRIDAY 9:00 A.M. at the ticket windows located at 
gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. (Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of four (4) 
tickets per purchase. VALID 1.0. REQUIRED. No assembly be­
fore 6:00 A.M. Lottery for position in line 7:00 A.M. to 8:00 A.M. 
(sale for the public will take place at gate 10 of the J.A.C.C. 
Kevin Becker 
Editor-in-Chief 

-----------~~---­
~~...,_..-~~~~ 
students on their own free time. These stories and columns are then edited by an editor or assistant editor and checked for accuracy and spelling by a copy editor. At night, people from the various departments come in to decide on the content of the various sections and design the pages to include all of the stories that were assigned that day by the editors and written by the reporters. 
Our graphic arts department includes our campus strip cartoonist, a nightly general as­signment artist, and an artist to draw the illus­tration for the column that appears on this page every day, the Inside Column. 
Each night, there is also a person who operates our computer and typesetting equip­ment to take the stories that are typed into the computer and turn them into the columns that appear in the paper. These columns are then cut up by members of our production staff and placed by hand onto sheets the same size as the paper you are reading now. 
When production is over, the paper is delivered to the gate and printed; it arrives back on campus at about 10 a.m., two hours after we have started the next paper. 
The possibilities for students to work here are endless. These brief descriptions of some of the jobs up here are only the tip of the iceberg; there are a number that I did not even mention. 
So if you have any interest at all in getting rid of some of your spare time or if you would like to make a little bit of extra money or if you need a resume boost or if you would simply like to spend a little less time sleeping, come up to our offices and see what we have to offer. 
You may just like what you see. 
PRESENTED BY 
CHARLEVOIX PRODUCTIONS 


Wednesday, August 26, 1987 The Observer 


"OK, so y~u found your dorm. No~ where the Heck can you get some food?" 

After hours and hours ~f unpacking boxes, hanging posters, successfully rewiring your stereo and tranquilizing your pet goldfish, you've finally moved everything in. Now what? The hard part's over. So take a break and treat yourself to a hot, delicious pizza at your nearby Pizza Hut"' restaurant. Or, call for free campus delivery at 232-2499. It's our way of saying "Welcome" to Notre Dame from Pizza Huti!')! 



r------------------------------1I p•lzzajPaps•l(l) 
Includes TWO Large Pizza Hut") stx topping Supreme Pizzas' I ~ · (Pepperoni, Mushroom, Onton. Green Pepper. Beet Toppmg and PorkI Topptng) Plus. an tce cold six pack of Pepsi®l Please mention coupon I
I arty I
when ordering. Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut®1 P offer. One coupon per offer. per visit at partictpating Pizza 'Hut® I restaurants.
I Packl• I
VALID ON CARRYOUT AND DELIVERY ONLY.

1 
1 $17 99 Expires September 26, 1987 I
I • Free Campus Delivery: 232-2499 11 • • Roseland 52850 US 31 Bus1ness ... 277-2121 ............... Save over $8.00 • Do~ntown 502 N. M1ch1gan ..•.•. 282-2543 ~ II • Ed1son Road 2307 Ed1son Road .... 233-3827 ~ut. ~
•
1987 P01za Hul.lnc 1/20 Cent Cash Redemptoon Value 0 

t
1 -...... Aagular 
Additional To~pings Just $1.29 Each.
-----------------------------1 
• 1

I 1"'0 ~ Covers both ptzzas. I 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per offer perI SIZ£ visit at participating Piua Hut® restaurants. Not valid in combination 1 I with any other Pizza Hut® offer. 1
Pan Pizzas! 
V.WD ON CARRYOUT AND DELIVERY ONLY. 

11 11 
Expires September 26, 1987 

1 Free Campus Delivery: 232-2499 11 • ROHland 52850 US 31 Business ... 277-2121 1 I • Downtown 502 N. Michigan ••.•.. 282-2543 :u..-..6 I I • Edison Road 2307 Edison Road •.•. 233-3827 '"'HUL I 
I •t987 Poua Hu~ Inc. 1/20 Cant Cull ~phon Valutl 0 I 
I~------------------------------1Good lor $2.00 off the regular menu price of any large pizza. Or. $1.00 I
$ft 00

I .:.~,.
I I Off!• 

1 Pan 
1 I Pizza!
1 
~ 
I 
off any regular size pizza. Please mention coupon when ordering. One coupon per offer. per visit at participating Pizza Hut® restaurants. I Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut® offer. I VALID ON DINE-IN, CARRYOUT OR DELIVERY. I 
Expires September 26, 1987 1 
• 
Free Campua Delivery: 232-2499 I·Roseland 52850 us 31 susmess ... 277-2121 1

• 
Downtown 502 N. M1ch1gan •• : •.. 282-2543 ............... 1 

• 
Edison Road 2307 Edison Road .... 233-3827 


v I 
•1987 Poua Hu~ Inc. 1/20 Cant Cull ~phon Valut1 ' 2 I 




~-----------------------------~ 
page 3 
Police investigating death of ND parent 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Managing Editor 
Police were continuing their investigation Tuesday into last week's accident that killed the father of a Notre Dame fresh­man, the county prosecutor said. 
Thomas Naddy Sr., 65, the fa­ther of Thomas Naddy Jr., died of massive internal injuries late Wednesday night in a two­car collision on Juniper Road, police said. 
The driver of the other car, Lynda Maike, 28, of Mis­hawaka, suffered internal in­juries in the accident, said Cpl. Charles Feirrell, public infor­mation officer for St. Joseph County Police. 
Police tests showed Maike's blood-alcohol level "was sub­stantially higher than the legal limit," Feirrell said. 
County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said Tuesday that police were still collecting evidence and trying to locate witnesses to the accident. 
Barnes said he did not know whether charges would be filed in the accident. "It's depends on the evidence," he said. 

Naddy, of Wailuku, Hawaii, was at Notre Dame to drop off his son, a Grace Hall freshman who had arrived early because he is an Air Force ROTC cadet, said Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall. 
The accident occurred at about 11:10 p.m. as Naddy was driving south and Maike was heading north on Juniper Road, Feirrell said. 
The collision occurred in the northbound lane between Douglas Road and Pendle Street, Feirrell said. Inves­tigators are still trying to de­termine why Naddy's car was in the northbound lane, Feirrell said. 
Both drivers, the only oc­cupants in the cars, were repor­tedly not wearing seat belts, he said. Naddy was pronounced dead at the scene. 
Maike was taken to the St. Joseph's Medical Center, where she was released on Tuesday, a hospital adminis­trator said. 



page 4 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 


Dining 
continued from page 1 
which will add 200 seats, he said. 
The serving areas will be remodeled to resemble the "scramble" lines in the South Dining Hall. The new lines will differ in that grills and fry sta­tions will be on the lines, he said. 
"We will be getting fresh products out to the hot food sec­tions at all times," Hickey added. 
The serving areas will also have a deli and dessert show­case, he said. 
The new serveries will "make things flow better," he said. 
"If you're in a rush for class and just want to grab a sand-

Tuition 
continued from page 1 
creased faculty and staff salaries as one of the reasons for the hike in tuition and fees at their respective schools. 
"Half of (Notre Dame's in­crease) went to salaries and related benefits," said Thomas Mason, vice president for busi­ness affairs at Notre Dame. 
"We want our faculty to be among the best paid in the country." 
Theoretically, Mason said, higher salaries mean better faculty are attracted to the Uni­versity. Notre Dame is trying to keep its faculty salaries in the top 20 percent in the nation. 
Other reasons for the in­crease in Notre Dame's tuition include the cost of operating new facilities and increases in liability insurance costs, Mason said. 
In his letter, Malloy wrote that "it is a source of some con­cern to ali of us here at Notre Dame that such increases in tuition and room and board are necessary. . . In the years ahead I hope to provide (parents) with a fuller expla­nation of our financial situation as well as the steps being taken to address these important matters." 
Malloy has asked the busi­ness affairs office to prepare a report on why tuition and fees are increasing, Mason said. 
This fall marks the third con­secutive year of 8 percent tui­tion and fee hikes at private, four-year institutions. The 6 



AIM HIGH 

GET ON THE TRACK TOA SCHOLARSHIP 
An Air Force ROTC scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Find out if you qualify for tuition and other expenses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: 
A~r Force ROTC Ph 239-663-1 

LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCE STARTS HERE 
wich, you shoot in here (to the deli), get your sandwich and go out," he said. 
The serveries will be con­
verted during the summer 
"because it is the demolition that will cause the most excite­ment as far as dust and dirt," Hickey said. 
The beverage machines will be remounted in alcoves in the dining area, Hickey said. New round "conversation" tables and carpeting will be featured in the dining areas. 
Food Services looked into other possibilities, such as ser­ving the food in the dorms or using Stepan Center as a dining hall, but found the ideas un­workable, Hickey said. 
Other construction projects are proceeding along, accor­ding to Don Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant. 
The Loftus Sports Center, an 
percent average at public, four-year colleges equalled last year's rise, but was less than the 9 percent increase in 1985­86. 
Last year, Notre Dame's tui­tion was hiked 9.9 percent and its room-and-board fee 7.1 per­cent. The year before, Univer­sity tuition jumped 10.8 percent and room, board and laundry charges 7.65 percent. 



~U~IOR WELCOME WEEK CONTINUES .. 'WEDNESDAY: 5:00-7:00 

all-sports building north of the Joyce ACC, is nearing comple­tion, he said. 
The weight room will be finished by the end of the month, he said, with the arena scheduled for completion by the end of October. 
Problems with the delivery of materials have delayed the project, Dedrick noted. 
Construction on Knott and Seigfried Halls, two new wo­men's halls north of the Res­burgh Library, is "in good shape," he said. 
The external masonry and roof on Knott Hall, the west building, has been completed, Dedrick said. Seigfried Hall has been completed up to the third floor. 
Dedrick estimated that both buildings should be completed by June 1, 1988. 
Repairs to the roof of Sacred 
Last year Saint Mary's had a 6.7 percent increase in tuition and room and board, Hitchcock said. 
College costs thus continue to surge ahead of the overall in­flation rate as measured by the Consumer Price Index, which has risen at a 5 percent rate so far in 1987. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 


JUNIORS '89 
Heart Church are also continu­ing, he said, with workers repairing the sheetmetal and recaulking cracks. 
Bids for the new air condi­tioning system and repairs to the stained glass windows will be taken soon, he said. 
Work was also done in anum­ber of residence halls over the summer, Dedrick added. 
Howard Hall, formerly a 
men's hall, was converted over the summer for use by women, he said. 
Alterations in the dorm in­cluded modification of the bathrooms and conversion of a 
WELCOME BACK! STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF 

See Jim for in

DOMESTIC AND IMPORTED 
WINES BEERS UQ(JORS 
store specials 

Ironwood liquors 
1725 North lroiiWOOd SOUth lend 272·71.W 
lounge into a laundry room, he said. 
Roof work was done on Badin, Alumni and Dillon Halls, windows were replaced in Sorin and fire safety im­provements made in Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls, he said. 
The Special Olympics, held on campus this summer, prevented any major interior renovations of other halls, he said. 
The University also pur­chased a "substantial" amount of new furniture for the dorms, he said. 



Wednesday, August 26, 1987 The Observer page 5 

Computerized card catalogs facilitate ND library research 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Anew computerized catalog­ing system called UNLOC was recently activated by the Hes­burgh Memorial Library and its branches. UNLOC, the University of Notre Dame Li­braries Online Catalog, is de­signed to make research more efficient and effective, said Pat Max, instructional services co­ordinator. 
At the present time, the com­puter database contains records for all books cataloged since 1977 and 80% of the books received before then, Max said. He added that UNLOC is an evolving system that will con­tinue to grow and adapt to new information and needs. 
UNLOC is based on the exist­ing Library of Congress Cataloging System, an IBM mainframe and a NOTIS software system, Max said. The NOTIS software was developed by Northwestern University, Max said, adding it was chosen for its proven effec­tiveness in other large re­search libraries. 
The final cost for the imple­mentation of UNLOC is $1.7 million, said Robert Miller, director of libraries. The system had been in planning stages for about 5 years, Max said. 
UNLOC includes 93 termi­nals, distributed throughout the libraries on campus, Max said. Simple or very complex searches for information can be conducted from any of these terminals, he said. At some locations printers will be avail­able to eliminate copying time, Max said. 
''The system is user-friendly, but one will need instruction for more sophisticated functions, such as Boolean search tech­niques. We're trying to train anyone on campus who wants to learn," Max said. 
Freshmen will receive an in­troduction to UNLOC during their tour of the library, said Max. "I'm more concerned about the sophomores, juniors and seniors who may put off learning about the new sys-tern," he said. Max said the library intends to offer instruc­tion to upperclassmen through distributed literature, and a number of introductory lee­tures at the library, beginning in the next few weeks. 
As a growing system, UN­LOC will create many changes in the library in the very near future, said Max. 
By the middle of the school year, information will be released that will allow stu­dents with personal computers and modems to tap into the UN­LOC system from their rooms, said Max. 
It is also projected that by next year, light pen technology, as used in many supermarkets, will simplify and expedite the present system for checking out books, said Max. 
Max believes that the online catalog system, like UNLOC, will become the universaJ mode of communication among libraries around the na­tion. "To use it to its fullest power, you really need some training" Max said. 
18" 
4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 4.99 
4o99 
4o99 4o99 
4099 
1.27 
1.27 80 80 15 10 
Large 16 oz. 1.10 
1.10 


BEVERAGES 
PEPSI  • DIET PEPSI  • SLICE  • MOUNTAIN DEW  
Small  Medium  LARGE  
12 oz.  16 oz.  32 oz.  
s .42  3  .52  s .80  

6FT. PARTY SUB ALSO AVAILABLE 
1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. REE DELIVERY!!! 271-0SUB 

Welcome Back Specials 
..---------,
l$2 00 OFF On Any I
• 14" Pinal
I Add 20c Willi Carry out Orders I 
I I 
I I
Isoe0F F Any Sandwich I 
Purcha~e I

I Ott-. not red~n.able on Kiddin S..!~!ls I 

Lcoupon Expires Oct. a-
Open Sundays 4 to 10 pm 
Serving Pizza, Sandwiches, Soft Drinks, m,-::::::::0~'­Cold Drafts, and a Salad Bar ~ 
r:; 

Mon. thru Thurs. 11 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. ! Fri. & Sat. 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. . 
~ ·•I 

713 E. J~~~~:;81so. Ben_ndi0 
P.IJI1, ~·  -;-­ I  
3724 Grape Road Mishawaka-256-0928  oil,,,  II  '  0  • d  "  
--.,..,.,--::o c~·~:.~~...........  

THE MATEO ...' . 
I 
TURKEY .. TURKEY BREAST .... HAM ............. TUNA ... . . . . . . . . . . REAL ROAST BEEF ... GENOA SALAMI ..... CHEESE ........... REAL ITALIAN ...... 
Capicola, Prosclutte, Genoa Salami 
COMBINATION . o . 0 0 0 Ham, Turkey, Roast Beef 
HOMEMADE MEATBALL 
PIZZA SUB ......... Pepperoni, Salami, Provolone, Onion, Mushroom, Red Sauce and Spices (HEATED) 
DIET SUB 0. 0...... 0 Lew Calorie Mayonnaise, Tuna or Turkey w/no oil 
X-TRAS 
MU~HROOMS  s 47  .80  
X-MEAT  47  80  
X-CHEESE  28  .47  
X-VEGETABLES  .28  47  
X-MAYO  5  10  
COSMO (HEATED)  10  10  


SIDES 
Small 
12 oz. POTATO SALAD s .89 COLE SLAW . .89 
Half 7 
$2.22 2.22 2.62 2.45 2.45 2.62 2.45 2.12 2.62 
2.62 
2045 
2045 
2.45 
Whole 
14" 
3.55 3.55 3.96 3.73 3.73 3.96 3.73 3.55 3.96 
3096 
3o73 
3o73 
3073 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 

The Obs,erver!Mlke Moran 
students moving on campus this past weekend, carts were scarce and students could use all the help they could get. 
Special to The Observer 
Two graduates of Notre Dame have been elected to the University's Board of Trus­tees. Dr. Nancy Haegel and Tracy Jackson, members of the class of 1981, will replace Dr. Terrence Keeley, fixed income analyst with Paine Webber In­ternational in London, and Dr. Kathleen Sullivan, assistant professor of biology at the Uni­versity of Miami in Coral Gables. 
Keeley and Sullivan were the first to occupy positions set aside by the board for two recent graduates, under 30 years of age at the time of their election who would each serve one three-year term. 



Saudi Arabia warns Iran against city, 
oil attacks 
Associated Press 
JIDDA, Saudi Arabia -Saudi Arabia called Iran's govern­ment a "group of terrorists" Tuesday and said its forces would dea1 firmly with any Iranian attempts to attack this nation's Moslem holy places or its vast oil fields. 
In Tunis, meanwhile, Arab League foreign ministers decided to give Iran until Sept. 20 to accept a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cease-fire in its 7­year-old war with Iraq. 
"Saudi Arabia has enough defense capabilities to repulse any Iranian aggression," Inte­rior Minister Prince Nayef warned Tuesday. 
"In the past the Iranians tried to attack eastern Saudi Arabia and had one of their warplanes shot down. We will not hesitate to deal similarly with any aggression." 
Naye£, a brother of King Fahd, announced a get-tough policy to head off any demonstrations by Iranian pilgrims in the Saudi holy city of Mecca, where hundreds died in clashes with police last month. 
His comments came hours after a senior Iranian cleric, Mahdi Karoubi, said pilgrims from Iran would continue to stage political rallies in Mecca. Karoubi was quoted by Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, monitored in Cyprus, as saying such rallies were a political obligation for all Mos­lems in addition to the religious rituals. 
Iran's ambassador to the United Arab Emirates, Mus­tafa Haeri, dismissed the im­pact of a possible U.N. arms embargo as trivial and said Iran was testing new missiles and was capable of blocking the Strait of Hormuz. 
Haeri said in an interview in Abu Dhabi that Iran continued to buy weapons on the free market despite a loose Western embargo imposed since the Iran-Iraq war broke out in Sep­tember 1980. 
Kuwaiti tankers flying the American flag have been navigating the gulf under U.S. naval protection. 
'81 ND grads elected to Board of Trustees 
Haegel, of Milan, Ohio, was a valedictorian of her gradua­tion class and received a bac­helor of science degree summa cum laude in metallurgical en­gineering.
Jackson, who received his degree in economics and cap­tained the Irish basketball team his senior year, played in the National Basketball Asso­ciation for the Boston Celtics, Indianapolis Pacers and Chicago Bulls. 
Jackson, of Silver Spring, Md., is currently a stockbroker with the Folger, Nolan, Fleming & Douglas brokerage firm in Washington, D.C. 
Haegel and Jackson will at­tend their first Board of Trus­tees meeting in November. 



125 DIXIE WAY NORTH PHONE. AREA CODE 219 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46637 272-6500 

page 7 
l 
l


SMC adds three I resident directors 
Two great ways to cruise through the semester 
The hand on me left is poised on what could be me most essential part of your education. 
AMacintosh'" computer. 
And me hand on me right is gripping pure, simple, unadulter­ated fun. AHonda Scooter. One we're giving away. All you have to do for achance to drive it away is visit your campus 
computer center and fill out an entry form. While you're mere, take a Macintosh for atest drive. 
Because Macintosh can help you write term papers, categorize elements of me periodic table, plot me rise and fall of pork-belly prices, compile computer code, and talk to omer computers. 
And me first 250 people on campus who get behind amouse, so to speak, will receive afree AppleQI memo board. So head over to your campus computer center today. And ask about our Student Financing Program. Who knows? You may soon fmd yourself cruising alittle farmer 
~~~tOO 
"­

HONDA

.® Test'drive aMacintosh. You may ride away on aHonda Scooter. 
-


VVednesday, August26, 1987 The Observer 
By SANDY CERIMELE Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

Incoming freshmen are not 
the only new faces at Saint 
Mary's this year. Three new 
resident directors for McCand­
less, Holy Cross and Regina 
Halls have been added to the 
Residence Life staff, the Saint 
Mary's housing department 
said. 
The new directors are Chris­
tine Benvenuto in McCandless 
Hall, Marie Lievens in Holy 
Cross Hall, and Beth Lumma 
in Regina Hall. 

Benvenuto said her experi­ence as a resident assistant for more than 2 years at Indiana University of Pittsburgh helped her to be better qualified for the job. 
"Through my experience as an R.A., I have learned that programming and communica­tion are the key components to success in community living," she said. 
Benvenuto said her goals for the year are to get everyone involved in the school and to be approachable for the students in McCandless. 
She attributed the size of the school as helpful in achieving her goal. "I would like to get to know all the students and promote a general closeness. I think the smallness of the Saint Mary's community allows for that," said Benvenuto. 
Lievens said her love for people, background in psychol­ogy at Creighton University and two years' experience as a 
resident adviser all qualify her 
for the job. 
"I hope to enforce policies 
when addressed with issues, 
but not under the assumption 
that we are out to get 
everybody. There are reasons 
behind rules and our staff is 
working to help the students un­
derstand those reasons rather 
than just the fact that they 
must follow a set of rules," she 
said. 
Lievens said her goal for the 
year is to spur initiative and 
enthusiasm, direct that to the 
students and keep it going 
through the year. 
Lumma said her background in social work and two and a half years as a resident assis­tant at Illinois State University have prepared her for the po­sition of resident director. 
"My directing philosophy is to teach students self discipline and responsibility. We are not a policing force. We want the rules to make sense to the resi­dents," she said. 
Margaret "Mugs" Caven, who has 5 years of experience as a resident director at Saint Mary's, said the overall re­sponsibility of the job is "the administration of the building and the promotion and devel­opment of the community within it." 
The resident director's job is to challenge the students to pursue the unique opportuni­ties Saint Mary's offers to be involved in the community as women leaders, Caven added. 

Certain restrictions apply; visit your campus computer center lOr mmpiete promotional details. One free Honda Elite'" SO Smmer will be awarded per participating school; only regL~tered student1 and faculty are eligible to win. Odds of winning vary depending on size of school and number of contest entrants. No purchase necessary. <C 1987 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and the Apple logo arc registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Macintosh is atrademark ofApple Computer, Inc. Elite is atrJdemark ofllonda. 



eaZypc~M 
It's almost as easy as turning onyour 
Zenith Data Systems introduces the eaZy pc TM 
. . . now available at great student prices! You want easy to operate? You've got it! Because with the eaZy pc TM, all you have to do is plug the 
·system in ... just like a TV. Once you tu~n i! on, i~ tells you exactly what to do, in plain English ­thanks to Microsoft's® MS-DOS Manager. 
You'll be up and running within minutes after opening the box. So you can do your homework. Term papers. Research. And more. All with an 
. ease you've never before experienced. Your coursework is difficult enough. So don't hassle yourself with a complicated PC. Turn on to the eaZy pc TM from Zenith Data Systems today! 
PLUS-the eaZy pc ™ offers you all this ... 
• A 14" monochrome monitor attached to a tilt swivel base. 
· • PC-compatibility ... runs virtually all important MS-DOS software. 
• 512K RAM ... mere than enough to handle your coursework. 
• 
Con1oact, high-capacity 3V2" 720K disk drives . 

• 
A complete personal computer system at a great price ... so it's easy on your budget, too! 


eaZy pc'" Single Floppy 3i·•~l"' • I ..,.,py Drive Dual Floppy Drive with 20MB Hard Disk Our PricE-Only: Our Price Only: Our Price Only: 
$599.00 $699.00 $999.00 
Make it easy on yourself with the eaZy pc r~ Find out more below: · 
Zenith Data Systems 1900 North Austin A venue Chicago, Illinois 60639 ATTN: Marilyn Feltenberger 



;I'•,, data 
:;~·?r..al pricing offer good only on purchases :hrough Zenith Contact(s) listed above by students, 
systems
faculty and staff for their own use. No other dis­c 1987, Zenith Data Systems counts apply. Prices subject to change without 
notice THE QUALI1Y GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES 0~ Form No. 1764 


Wednesday,August26, 1987 _______________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_N_e_r______________________________________________~p_a~g~e__9 
WELCOME BACK! WE WISH YOU ALL GREAT TIMES AND MUCH SUCCESS THIS '87 ·'88 YEAR 
FROM YOUR FRIENDS IN 

! Activities Night ! 
September 1, 1987 :! 7 P.M. • 10 P.M. ! Stepan Center : 
COME AND FIND OUT ALL ABOUT THE VARIOUS CLUBS AND • ORGANIZATIONS ON CAMPUS AND GET INVOLVED!! • 
** IF YOUR CLUB HASN'T SIGNED UP FOR ACTIVITIES NIGHT YET, • PLEASE STOP BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES, .3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE • BY AUGUST 28, 4 P.M. : 
On Sale in Student Government (2nd Floor Lafortune) and in your dorms! 
Includes: 
Scheduled Campus Activities •
I 

Tulloch, another organizer. Important Names & Numbers .: Following a world tour, the 
Titanic collection will be
Recreational Building Hours 
placed in a museum or other institution for long-term dis­
& Much, Much, More 
play, they said. 

Despite criticism that the ex­pedition was desecrating theBUYYOURSNOW! resting place of the 1,513 people••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• who died when the Titanic sank 

Titanic artifacts displayed around the world as 'respectful memorial' 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The more than 300 objects recovered this sum­mer from the wreck of the Titanic will be neither sold nor held privately, but displayed around the world, organizers of an international expedition said Tuesday. 
"We have a lot of respect for the people who died" on the luxury liner, said Robert Chap­paz of France, an expedition or­ganizer. "Titanic was a kind of link between Europe and the United States, and it's part of our common history. It belongs to the people of the world." 
Artifacts also will be shown on a television special this fall, expedition officials said at a news conference. 
Under the terms of the ex­pedition's covenant, objects recovered "may never be sold," said Robert Slavitt, the expedition's lawyer. "No way, no time, no place, no how." 
The expedition's investors will receive proceeds from the television program and sales of tickets to view the collection. Ticket prices would be such that "a family of six will be able to afford it," said George in 1912, a statement released by the expedition said the ex­hibit would be "a lasting, respectful memorial." 
Earlier this month the Senate passed a resolution barring the sale or display-for-profit of Titanic artifacts. Although Slavitt questioned the vote's significance, Tulloch said the collection would be displayed in the United States on a non­profit basis, if necessary. 
The Titanic was first located in 1985 by a U .S.-French ex­pedition led by Robert Ballard, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts. He later used a small submarine, Alvin II, and a small camera­carrying robot sub, Jason Jr., to explore the wreck, and his film became a National Geo­graphic television special on cable station WTBS. 
The latest expedition also will be the subject of a televi­sion program, a two-hour live special to be broadcast Oct. 28.. The program will be narrated by actor Telly Savalas and fea­ture the opening of a small pur­ser's safe. 
Objects recovered thus far from the debris scattered around the wreck include 160 dishes, four bottles, seven pieces of furniture, a propeller, a chandelier, a bronze cherub that once held a light on one of the ship's grand staircases and a leather satchel containing jewels, bank notes and coins. 

~ ----------~------------------­
Wednesday, August 26, 1987 

page 10 The Observer 

Indiana first in number of pot plants destroyed 
wild marijuana plants were cracking down on marijuana juana cultivators who grow the said Sgt. James Wallace of the
Associated Press 
destroyed between July 1986 importers. crop on abandoned or leased Lowell state police post. 
INDIANAPOLIS -For the and June of this year. Accor­State police began the spray­farmland, usually without the "For some folks, it is just an third consecutive year, Indiana ding to Indiana State Police ing program, funded by federal property owner's knowledge. accepted way of life," Wallace has ranked first among records, several thousand grants, in 1984. The grants pay In rural northwestern In­said. "We have some families marijuana-producing states in more cultivated plants also for the chemicals and supplies. diana, the leafy hemp plant, in the general area where their the number of pot plants have been destroyed. Counties hire the students to do also known as ditch weed, main source of income is destroyed, officials say. Police believe they are win­the work. grows wild and sometimes is generated from marijuana 
The ranking, dubious as it is, ning the war against "People call in to us all the as high as cornstalks along the harvest." can be attributed to an eradica­harvesters of the illegal cash time and we find a lot of areas roadside. tion program that has led to the crop, thanks to aerial surveil­through (searches by) state Those arrested for harvest­Wallace said ditch weed, destruction of more than 33.4 lance, teen-age summer police helicopters," said ing the weed have included which was cultivated as hemp million wild and cultivated workers who spray roadside Denise Miller, who heads a juveniles and senior citizens, for rope during World War II, plants so far this year in the areas and farmers who report team of seven "pot busters" in local residents as well as has sold for as much as $100 seven counties that produce the illicit activities. Newton County. people from as far away as per ounce in northern Indiana. bulk of the state's marijuana -Although the illegal harvest­State police say more than Colorado and New York. Despite its popularity, Pulaski, Newton, Jasper, ing has gone on for years, state 170 people have been arrested "We even have a family up however, police say the quality Starke, Lake, Porter and police say it intensified in In­since last July in connection here where every member has of marijuana found in Indiana LaPorte. diana about three years ago with harvesting activities. been arrested -five brothers, is inferior to the imported va­
Statewide, nearly 92 million when federal agencies began Most of those have been mari-the father, even the mother," riety. 


• 
$1.39 any film, any day! ! 
: • over 2500 titles : : • full video store with blank tapes and video accessories : • evideo players available for rent • •. •conveniently located behind Campus View Apartments • 
. ·­
• 2022 South Bend Avenue • : South Bend, IN 46637 : 
: 272-4848 :
••••••••••••••••••..••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 
BEER 
Meister Brau 24 cans...$4.99 Old Milwaukee reg. and It. 24 cans...$5.99 Budweiser reg. and It. 24 cans...$7.59 Strohs 30 pack. ..$7.39 Lite 24 cans...$7.39 Miller 24 cans...$7.89 Miller Draft 24 cans...$7.89 
Hamms reg. and It. 24 cans...$5.99 Blatz 24 cans...$5.99 Michelob 24 cans...$8.99 Michelob 24 btls. reg. and It. ..$9.89 

BEER RETO 
Budweiser 24 return btls...$7.99 Rhinelander 24 return btls...$3.99 Lite 24 return btls...$7.99 Miller return btls...$7.99 

KEGS 
Old Milwaukee 15.6 gals...$22.99 Busch 15.6 gals...$26.99 Budweiser 15.6 gals...$33.99 Lite 15.6 gals...$32.99 
CITY-WIDE LIQUORS Ch;hu~6~~~~79/
Corona 6-pack...$4.99

3825 N. Grape Rd. 
Molson 6-pack...$3.29 
Beck• /$4.79

Mish, Ind. 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. 
LIQUOR

Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. ; 272-227 ~Rikahoff (vodka) 1.75...$7.99 ffSilver Crest (gin) 1.75...$8.99, Old Thompson (blend) 1.75...$9.99 Castillo (rum) 1.75...$10.99 
H. Walker Peach Schnapps 1.75...$9.99 W Canadian 1.75...$9.99 
Kessler 1.75...$9.99 Giro Tequila 1.75...$10.99 


WINE 

Bartles & Jaymes 4-pack. ..$2.59 Carlo Rossi 4 ltrs...$4.99 M&R Asti 750 mi. ..$7.99 

University Mall 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, August 26, 1987 The Observer page 11 


Home, sweet home 
What's in order here is a maid...and that's the only thing in order in this room, a typical campus scene this past weekend as thousands of students moved in across campus. Some rooms probably still look like this. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 



Typists {2) 
For further information contact Jim Winkler at The Observer (239-5303) 





NAUGLES 
ND students receive Fulbrights 
Special to The Observer 
Three Notre Dame students were recipients of the 1987 Fulbright awards. 
Robert Anderson of Simi Val­ley, California, a doctoral stu­dent in Notre Dame's Medieval Institute, received an award to study in West Germany. Ander­son's research is in medieval speculative grammar. 
Christopher Vargas, a master's student in electrical and computer engineering, received an award to study in Finland. Vargas' research is in digital signal processing and 
very  large  scale  integration  
design.  
Grant  White  of  Hutchison,  

Kansas, a doctoral student in theology, has received an award for study in England. 
White's research is in oriental studies and early Christianity. 
The Fulbright Scholar Pro­gram was established forty­one years ago under federal legislation introduced by former. Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas. Funded and administered by the United States Information Agency, the program's financial support comes from U.S. congressional 
appropriations  and  from  the  
governments of 27  other  na­ 
tions.  

L...--·-1..Jr11Md---"-'_ ___.IIL__Bu__v__o__B__SE__R__V__ER__C__L__A__ss__lF__IE__o_s_____. 
i···················~·······~···~·~··················l

! STEPAN MALL: i 
* * 
: -everything you need for your a : * home away from home : * 
* *
* *
* * 
a Wed & Thurs, August 26-27 i : * ~9:00-5:00 lo12s !* 
: (')etif\9 cordS :
* car~' refrigerator rentals re * 
* · ns o. *
flowers

Jt ulJscriptlO v'?. . * ! neUJspaper 5 on~ca "'~'<-,...~ Q{IESTIONS????? :* rnpLL.s b. . . * 
! ctnkirz.q -contact J1m or Ang1e : 
* sponsored by Student Union Board at 239-7757 ! 
~·········~············~·····················~·~···~~~ 
::  Refrigerator Rentals  :  
i •: i•  -at Stepan Mall Wednesday & Thursday 9:00-5:00  
i•:  Small: Large:  $35.0QYr. $50.0QYr.  ~ ~  $20.00 returnable deposit $20.00 returnable deposit  :i  
•i  -contracts, payments, and refrigerator pick-up! will be handled at time of rental. contact Jim Hering for info-239-7757  

tponsored by the Student Union Board 
BANKING.•• 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday throagh friday 
Mon."'fhru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-ll:ooa.m.-4:oop.m ~Source 
Join Michiana's 1st Team 
•Bank 

for unsurpa~sed banking service! 1\A<::mber f D I C. 
Needs Drivers!!! 
Flexible hours, good pay, friendly atmosphere CALL TODAY!!! (Business is booming) 
Apply in person 272-5455 

~--~­






Viewpoint 
Wednesday, August 26, 1987

page 12 
ND Government serves with fresh ideas 

P.O. Box Q 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thonghts and opinions do make a dif­ference. Write to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
corned with a mass, picnic, tours, a transfer student party, and a luncheon at which Father Malloy personally wel­comed them. 
Outside of orientations, Student Gov­ernment and the Student Union Board are offering students Planning Calen­dars complete with athletic games, movies, and special events already marked on the appropriate days. These calendars are selling for one dollar through your hall presidents. 
Another service provided by Student Government this weekend was a shuttle from the Michiana Regional Airport to Notre Dame. The shuttle service which was run on Sunday was very successful. 
We plan to run it for the rest of the year at break times. 
So, there you have it-a more concrete answer to the question, "What is Stu­dent Government?" We can always use new ideas about what services the stu­dents want and need. Please bring your ideas to Student Government on the second floor of LaFortune. 
We're looking forward to a year in which students see tangible results so they don't have to ask, "What is Student Government?" 
Pat Cooke is student body president and Laurie Bink is student body vice pres­ident. 
Garry Trudeau 

50 WHCR/3 AS I /X) I FIT IN? SAY, rr'5 IU&6At... 
~ 


Quote of the Day 
"Aim at the sun, and you may not reach it; but your arrow will fly far higher than if aimed at an object on a level with yourself." 
Joel Hawes 

When people ask us, "What is Student Government?", our response, in con­densed form, has been that student gov­ernment is a service organization run by and for Notre Dame students. 
Pat Cooke Laurie Bink 
guest column 
This answer is often met with nods of heads, but somehow we feel that it doesn't really clarify what Student Gov­ernment does. Concrete examples might help. So let us relate to you those Student Government services which were available already this year. 
Freshman Orientation is a branch of Student Government. Over seventy­five students on the Freshman Orien­tation committee worked to plan and organize a movie, two dances, ice cream socials, picnics, tours, an orien­tation booklet, and a giant game of mu­sical chairs to welcome the Class of 1991 to Notre Dame. Freshmen seemed to have a great time. Hopefully, the work of Student Government and Dr. Hof­man will make the transition from home to Notre Dame a little easier for our new students. 
Like Freshman Orientation, Trans­fer Orientation was organized by Stu­dent Government. Transfers were wel-

Olympic volunteers lauded for effort 
Dear Members of the Notre Dame Family: 
I want to thank in a special way those students, faculty, staff and administra­tion who participated as volunteers and workers in the International Special Olympic Games in the first week of Au­gust of this past summer. For all of us who were present it was one of Notre Dame's finest hours. Of course, we did not do it alone since it was really a cooperative effort on the part of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and the surrounding community. The courage, persistence and love that were so evi­dent were a source of inspiration to all of us. Many of the athletes and their families commented to me that they had never been better treated anywhere, and they especially appre­ciated the genuine interest and concern they experienced. 
There is no way in which I can thank each member of the Notre Dame com­munity who participated. Some operated behind the scenes, assuring that the ordinary tasks were attended to, and others were more on the front lines. But everyone carried their weight and it was a magnificent week. Thank you for being a part of this special event. May it continue to be a sign of what we can achieve together. 
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. President 

Doonesbury 

~KMAN PlANET-Of· BIOL~Y 
lME·APES n~CHER 
MAN 

BliT... MIHYr 
/ wPROTECT ?He 
CO'Iti?TOPeRATIONS .-­
'3W5H FUNIJ, 1He 
MISSING MIU/ONS.I KNCIAJ IT U/0(/f.P C1JM8 OlJTIN TH/3 HfW?.INGS, ANfJI PIPN'TtfJ4NT 7D Be Afl{)()N(J 70AN5IIJBR. 
ANYQI.JeSTlON5! 
General Board 


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager ..........................Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindeie as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo. Editor ..............•..............................Jim Carroll space is available to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1966 


Accent ... 
Wed August 26, 1987 e 13 
'I was a freshman dork' 
P 
Mike Naughton Into the dog book and this features editor morning you woke up and thought you were at home, sssssst Pssssst Hey you, confused your chem class In freshman. Cushing with your seminar In 
I'll bet you a lawn pass that O'Shag and tripped In front of you're feeling a little bit over-700 people at lunch. You've whelmed right now, aren't you? just been Introduced to 300 A little bit lost like you don't people and can remember the really belong here? names of four of them --none 
Are you reading this column of whom you want to meet because you're eating lunch by again. yourself and have no one to Well, friend, you're off to a talk to? good start I know how you 
Leaving home Is starting to feel because, like you, I too seem like a terrible mistake was once a freshman and I, right now. Isn't It? I'll bet you well. I was a dork. your dog book that you're And I want you to know that starting to wonder If your ol' no matter how confused, per-mutt Is all right or whether plexed, Ignorant or just plain your parents have painted your stupid you are. I was worse. room yet (they haven't, they've You don't believe me? When wall-papered It). I applied to Notre Dame I 
To make matters worse. thought that It was In Connec­you've already blown your tlcut When I found out that It chance to convince everyone In wasn't really on the East Coast the hall that you're a really I had to buy an atlas to figure smooth Individual by spilling out where Indiana Is. I ex-punch on that brand new pected It to be snowing when I sweater that mom bought you arrived . . . In August ... In last week --later you managed my down jacket ... In­to blot out the punch stain by coherent. I thought that the regurgitating two beers that Glpper of "Knute Rockne -All you shotgunned In your room. American" was the same foot-
You just found out that your ball player as Brian Piccolo of mother sent that picture of you "Brian's Song." 



It took me over a month to find out that the person on top of the Golden Dome wasn't Thomas Jefferson. I don't know why I thought It was Jefferson, It must have been the stately pose and the lack of a beard. 
Now that I'm a senior I admit that I really haven't changed much. I still have everything in storage and have no food in my fridge or blankets on my bed. I just missed "A Taste of Notre Dame" for the fourth year In a row and just found out that the SAB Is now the SUB and I still don't know what those SOBs are doing. At any rate, I'm obviously still a dork 
but I've learned the key to hap­piness at Notre Dame --Be what you Is. not what you ain't 
You see, the worst part of being a freshman dork Is that you are all trying so hard not to let It show. You know that this Is one of those rare times In your life when you have a clean slate. You can try to change the way people look at you. So you go out of your way to try to seem better than you are. 
Well take it from me, your pal Mike, you can only do that at an SYR. 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
All My Children: Hilary fumed after seeing Mitch's other family. While Erica planned a huge wed­ding, Travis was urged to have a small ceremony. Matt followed a grieving Nina to Martha's VIne­yard. where she reached out to him. Brooke and Adam made love In Bermuda. Dr. Lazarre came to Pine Valley and hyp­notized Noelle, telling her not to trust Jeremy. Coming: Noelle's reaction puzzles Jeremy. 
Another World: Donna lied and told Michael that John blamed him for their father's death. Peter put Incriminating photos of Donna and John where VIcki could see them. When Mary refused to marry VInce, he kicked her out of his life. Lisa and Jamie made love. After Mitch and Felicia rescued Cass from a crap game, Winthrop learned he was getting Kathleen's Insurance money. Amanda made her debut. Rachel hired Sam as a layout artist, unaware of his fam­Ily tree. Coming: Dangerous rel­ative. 
As The World Turns: James' string of accomplices Included Corinne and Monica Lawrence. James forced Emily to be upbeat around Paul, then made love to her. Doris was killed before she could reveal James' local contact to Duncan, who was suspected of the crime. After Lyla turned down casey's marriage pro­posal, he moved out. Tom learned that Margo filed for divorce. Sierra sold Craig's busi­ness, only to find out the buyer was Tonto. Coming: Andy senses trouble. 
The Bold and The Beautiful: When Mark refused to attend the Logan family dinner, Donna went alone. Rocco gave Donna a pas­sionate kiss, which Katie saw. Ron forced his way Into caroline's apartment and raped her. Brooke and Dave took caroline to see a woman pollee officer at the hospital. Thorne ad­mitted to Ridge he was interested in caroline. Kristen invited Charles to the Forresters, con­vinced that her mother was match making. Coming: After­math of horror. 
Days Of Our Lives: Patch agreed to work undercover for the ISA and lied about Ed Daniels in court to win his trust. Kayla, hurt at having been used, left him. Frankie and Jennifer had a narrow escape from Nick. carrie convinced a frightened Jonah to visit Abe. Kim feared for her un­born child when she caught rubella. Adrienne got help at a rape center and made up with Justin as he was about to leave for Greece. Coming: Eve In­sinuates herself. 
General Hospital: Alan retrieved the Quartermaines' in­vestment In HTI. After Simon dated a football star, Tom saw more of camellia. Corey's friendship with Rosa deepened. Sean and Duke rescued Robert and Anna from a plane the DVX sabotaged. To fight them, Scor­pio and Anna convinced everyone they were dead. Mean­while, the WSB realized that Elena used HForty Million StarsH 
as a code for her hltmen. Com­ 
Ing: Jake gets suspicious.  
Gulldlng Light: After a  
struggle, the hltman fell to his  
death from the plane. Phillip and  
Chelsey made love. Josh and  
Reva had a confrontation at the  
fountain and parted angrily. caz  
died, leaving Josh devastated.  
Reva found Sonnl's wedding pic­ 
ture, and Josh confessed that he  
had married her. Coming: Love  
from the past  
Loving: Steve and Trlsha were  
married. As the wedding party  
moved outside, Cece suddenly  
appeared, calling Steve, and was  
wounded by Gus. The pollee  
caught Gus and killed Eban  
before he could shoot Curtis.  
Harry asked Ann to marry him,  
which shocked Gwyn. Lily  
feigned sickness to be alone with  
Jack, but he refused her ad­ 
vances. Steve and Trlsha  
relished their wedding night.  
Coming: Lily won't give up.  
One Life To Live: Tina found  
the stolen vile of polson In  
Marla's room. Marla caught Tina,  
and In their struggle, Marla died  
from the polson. A panicky Tina  
grabbed the vile and fled. but  
Marla's hand clutched a bead  
from Tina's necklace. Cord ac­ 
cused Tina ofmurdering his mot­ 
her. Kate and Cord postponed  
their wedding, giving Patrick new  - 
optimism. Tom accused Lee of  
being his former wife carol, a  
prostitute, which she denied.  
Coming: Tina In hot water.  
Ryan's Hope: Ben observed  
John taking Concetta Into her  
apartment. John told Frank why  
he had been with Concetta. As  
Lizzie prepared to walk down the  
aisle, she saw Ben and knew she  
couldn't go through with it. Ben  
carried off Lizzie and told her  
about John and Concetta. Lizzie  
then demanded to know If John  
and Concetta were having an af­ 
fair. Coming: The truth hurts.  
Santa Barbara: Tori unsuc­ 
cessfully tried to bluff Paul Into  
confessing the attempted kid­ 
nap. Eden Insisted that cain stay  
with the capwells while they both  
recovered. Kelly accepted Jef­ 
frey's marriage proposal over  
C.C.'s objections. Jake made  
peace with his father, who died.  
Cruz stopped Eleanor from  
shooting cain. Eleanor became  
uneasy when Pearl suspected  - 
that Mason's letter was a fake.  
Gina was arrested after a catflght  
with Jane. Coming: Jake and  
Hayley grow closer.  
The Young ~ The Restless:  
While Jill and Skip sparred  
during their dinner, Kay ac­ 
cepted an Invitation from Rex.  
Cricket angrily left when Phillip  
continued to drink. Brad and  
Lauren agreed to keep their affair  
secret. Ashley paid a sympathetic  
visit to Nikki, devour a huge  
meal. Coming: Ellen and John  
get closer.  
1987, McNaught Synd.  

-~ ­

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 

NFC West looks tough; Rams-49ers battle over? 
Associated Press the top performer in the defen­The new backup quarterback sive line on San Francisco's is Steve Young, the former 
SAN FRANCISCO The San 1981 championship team, and Brigham Young all-American 
Francisco Forty-Niners won former Pro Bowl cornerback acquired from Tampa Bay. 
their fourth division title in six Eric Wright were among the 
years the hard way, playing -49ers suffering significant in­John Robinson is heading into 
half of last season without juries last season. Montana, his fifth year as head coach of 
quarterback Joe Montana. who underwent back surgery in the Rams. Jim Mora is back But it's seldom easy in the September, passed for 2,236 with the Saints after posting a National Football Conference yards but only eight touch­7-9 record in his first season, West, the four-team group also downs in his eight regular and Marion Campbell takes including the Los Angeles season games. over an Atlanta team which Rams, Atlanta Falcons and Montana gained 10 pounds in finished 7-8-1 last year. New Orleans Saints. Moreover, an off-season conditioning pro­Campbell was also head coach the Falcons and Saints show gram and, according to Walsh of the Falcons from 1974 to 1976. signs of jumping into what has "is determined to have a great In second-year man Jim traditionally been a two-way season." Wide receiver Jerry Everett the Rams may have a fight between the Rams and Rice is probably the best at his quarterback who can stay on 49ers. position in the league he led the job well into the 1990s. 
"The team that wins the title the NFL with 1,570 yards and Everett became the starter is the one that wins outside the 15 touchdowns receiving last late last season and passed for division,'' says 49ers Coach Bill year. 1,018 yards and eight TDs. Walsh. The NFC west also has the In Atlanta, David Archer is 
San Francisco finished the league's defending rushing the returning starter at quar­1986 regular season 10-5-1 champion, Eric Dickerson of terback. The Falcons made record, overtaking the Rams, the Rams, whose 1,821 yards Oregon quarterback Chris Mil­10-6, by beating them 24-14 in gave him 6,968 in four pro ler their top draft pick, but he the final game. Within the divi­seasons. Reuben Mayes of New was a contract holdout through sion, the 49ers were 3-2-1. Orleans led the NFL's rookie the opening weeks of training 
Los Angeles, which lost the running backs, with 1,353 camp. Roger Craig will look to help lead the 49er's attack in the NFC division title by dropping its yards, and Atlanta's Gerald West... last two regular season games, Riggs had his third straight Atlanta used a rookie, Tony then lost 19-7 to Washington in 1,000-yard rushing season, Casillas, at nose tackle last 

Pan Am Games
the NFC wild-card game. A gaining 1,327 yards. season. The veteran lineback­
week later, the New York One of the 49ers' major goals ing corps is led by Buddy Cur­
Giants took their first step for 1987 is to improve the run­ry, team leader in tackles for 

get passing grade
toward the Super Bowl title by ning game. seven consecutive seasons, and crushing Walsh's team, 49-3. Craig was the 49ers' top rus­all starters return in the defen­
But Roger Craig, the 49ers' her last year with 830 yards. sive backfield. "There were no surprises in fullback, says, "I've got the Veteran Joe Cribbs returns Associated Press terms of organizational prob­mental attitude we can go all after rushing for 590 yards in New Orleans' Morten Ander­INDIANAPOLIS -Local or­lems. It's the same thing that the way." And strong safety his first season with the 49ers, sen made 26 of 30 field goal at­ganizers of the Pan American happens at the Olympics, the Carlton Williamson adds: "if and the team is high on two tempts last year, and punter Games have received an "A" Olympic Festival, the Asian we keep everyone healthy, we rookie running backs, first­Brian Hansen averaged 42.7 report from officials of the U.S. Games and Pan Am Games. can be a Super Bowl team round pick Terrence Flagler yards for the Saints, making Olympic Committee, a USOC It's always transportation and again." from Clemson and free agent the Saints very strong in the spokesman says. beds and logistics because you 
Nose tackle Michael Carter, Doug DuBose from Nebraska. kicking department. The report card from the don't have any sort of a dress USOC "is what really counts in rehearsal." ·. ·. this country," said USOC 
media chief Mike Moran. Moran said the athletes' vil­The last members of the lage was first-rate, the food
-
~ 
USOC left the city Tuesday. was outstanding and the ath­
"There were glitches and letic facilities were incom­problems here that are in­parable. herent to any international, "The venues were the best in multi-sport event, but the thing Pan American history," said that sets them apart from at Moran. "They were the most least the last two Pan Ameri­polished, ready and contempo­can Games is how quickly they rary set of arenas and stadiums responded and fixed them," ever. They get an A-plus for 
Moran said. venues. 
Moran based his rating on what he saw and from the "The events were run off well reports received from the ... conducted well ... no delays various athletic federations ... no breakdowns. The athletes and the media. here had a very, very good time 
"We heard nothing but praise and to the USOC and the other from the federations," said Olympic committees who AP Photo Moran. "The staging of the brought their athletes here, . . . While the Rams and Eric Dickerson slot. event was absolutely first that's a big plus for In­
(29) will try to knock the 49er's out of the top class. dianapolis." 

The 0....Notre Dame offtc:e, located on the third floor of LaFortune dent Center, accepts classified adwertlslng from 10 Lm. until 4 through Friday. The 0....Saint Mary's office, located on the Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classified& 



Classifieds 
be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents ctwacters per day. 

-FOR SALE 
EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut Delivery has openings for delivery drivers. Start at $4.00 per houretipsegas reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips are paid daily.) We offer flexible schedule, meals, and a great work en­viroment. You must be 18 years old with a car, insurance, and drivers licence. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em· ployer. Call 277-2662. 
FOR S 
'80 PLY. HORIZON. 4 DR. HATCHBACK. DEPENDABLE TRANS­PORTATION. 1.7 LITRE, 4 CYL ENG., NT, M:;, DELUXE WINDSHIELD WIPERS, CRUISE CONTROL, H.D. SUSPENSION, TINTED GLASS, AM RADIO, ELECT. REAR WINDOW DEFROST. COMPLETE SERVICE RECORD AND SERVICE MANUAL IN· CLUDED. NO OIL BURNER, GOOD TIRES. PRICE $950 FIRM. 288-0366. 
for sale: sofa,rocker and footstool,e"d tables,colfee table,floor lamp table lamp,dehumifier.Call 289·9725 
.............................. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY I CALL 1·312·742·1142, EXT. 7316. 
76 DUSTER, runs great, 76,000 miles, FM cassette, $500 232-6244. ······················································· 
LOOKING FOR WHEELS? IT GOT ME THRU NO. IT CAN GET YOU THRU NO TOO. 73 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE. BEST OFFER 277-6910 AFTER 5. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219·291-7153. 
House For Rent Convenient to bus line. 5 bedrooms, 2 full baths, 2 large living-Study rooms. $650tnon!h plus utilities. Could rent as 2 separate 2 bedroom units $4001nonth utilities In· eluded. Call for appointment 232-9239. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288·0955-255-3684 
........ 

FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO 
FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683·8889 

WANTED 
SITIER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 
P.M. TUES. THRU FRL CALL AFTER 8:30 P.M. 259·9110. 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
............ ........ . 
Every mother, should have a daughter, named Maria. 
WRITERS: The Observer news department is looking for writers -freshmen are wei· come. Contact Jim at the Observer office, 239·5313 
Mimi T., You lei-ed who? MP 
RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS 
TOM REHDER:I wish I could've gotten to know you last year.Maybe this semester...Have a great season. An ad· mirer from 2othc.WW class. 
Hiring full and part time phone inter· viewers for market research firm. Should enjoy talking with people, type 25 words per minute and available for weekend shifts. For appointment call 282·2754. 
The Observer is now accepting applica­tions In the BUSINESS DEPARTMENT. 
A job that will look great on your resume. SEE TRACY. 
·························· ··································· 
You think it's easy getting job offers in accounting? It is if you work for us. SEE TRACY. 
WAKE UPI 
Delivery & Counter Help Wanted Yellow Submarine 272·4453 
RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS RIDE THE EAST RACE RAPIDS 
The ObMrver Is now accepting applica­tions for Assistant Systems Manager, and Afternoon and Evening Typesetters. 
Direct all Inquiries to the 3rd floor of Lafor­tune Center. 

Two ND Frosh were named to USA Today's Top 100 athletes. Kent Graham, a quarterback from Wheaton, Ill., and Ryan Mihalko, a runningback from Pelham, N.H., were named the top male athlete in their respective states. Graham earned three letters in football, four in basketball and three in baseball at Wheaton North High School. Mihalko earned four football letters, two winter and four spring track letters. He is the first athlete from Pinkerton Academy in Derry, N.H., to earn a scholarship in any sport at a Division I school. -The Observer. 
The Women's Soccer Club will have a meeting today at 4:00 p.m. by the goals on Stepan Field for all interested. Practice begins tomorrow at 4:30. For further info call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow evening at 5:30p.m. in the LaFortune Theatre. No experience or athletic ability required. Direct any ques­tions to Tim O'Connell at 234-5986. -The Observer 
The Hockey Team will hold a meeting for all students interested in trying out for the varsity squad. anyone interested should bring a pen to an organizational meeting Monday, August 31, at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium. For additional information, contact the hockey office at 239-5227. -The Observer 

WELCOME BACK 
..~------------------------------------------------------~--------------~--~--------------------------­
The Observer 
15 

NL Roundup 
Cards dump Astros, 7-1 
Associated Press The Cardinals scored three homered down the left-field 
runs in the sixth on Smith's run­line off Kevin Gross, 8-11. 
ST. LOUIS -Lance Johnson scoring double, Tommy Herr's Reliever Scott Garrelts, 11-6, and Vince Coleman each sacrifice fly and Pendleton's pitched the last 21-3 innings for tripled to key a two-run second RBI single. the victory. 
inning and Jack Clark doubled The Phillies tied the score 2-2 to drive in his 100th run of the Dodgers 3, Mets 1 in the third on a walk to Steve season, leading the St. Louis NEW YORK -Fernando Jeltz, a sacrifice, Milt Cardinals over the Houston Valenzuela pitched a four­Thompson's run-scoringAstros 7-1 Tuesday night. hitter, struck out 13, and double and Mike Schmidt's 
The victory moved first­pitched a complete game, and RBI single. place St. Louis 4 games ahead John Shelby hit a two-run San Francisco took a 1-0 lead of second-place New York in homer as the Los Angeles in the second on an infield the National League East. Dodgers beat the New York single by Jose Uribe with the 
St. Louis left-bander Greg Mets 3-1 Tuesday night. bases loaded. Mathews, 9-8, pitched out of Valenzuela, 11-11, struggled Candy Maldanado opened repeated jams early in the throughout as he tied his career the San Francisco second with game and allowed eight hits in high for walks in a game, a walk and reached third on a eight innings. Bob Forsch got giving up eight. single by Chili Davis. Bob the final three outs. Leading 2-0, the left-bander Brenly was walked, loading the 
In the Cardinals' second, lost his shutout in the fifth in­bases and Uribe then hit a slow Johnson tripled off Danny Dar­ning when Mookie Wilson bouncer that scored Mal­win, 8-8. Johnson slid under doubled and Tim Teufel hit an danado. 
catcher Alan Ashby's tag at home plate on Tony Pena's grounder to tie the score 1-1. Coleman tripled home Pena. 
Clark's RBI double followed Ozzie Smith's leadoff double in the fifth. Pendleton hit a sacrifice fly off reliever Rocky Childress to make it 4-1. 


NDSMC 
STUDENTS 
Indiana's #1 keg and import beer store 
CORKTOWNE 
LIOUORS, INC. 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
Srare Road 23. ''• m•le wesr ol Marlin ·s Supermar~er 
'Z17-6805 


.r. 
\ . \ \ 
Julie Krause-Staszewski Gina Fabiano Cutting I
Forcnerly of Campus Salon Perm Specialist 
Offering Hair $5:00 off all Student Cuts Tanning $10:00 off all Perms Make Up 
NailsReduced Tanning Prices Wardrobing 

Tan Faster and Darker with Navalarlum Tanning Bed. 3 Blocks from Campus 1357 N. Ironwood 
234-6767

Across from the 7-11 
RBI single. 
David Cone, 3-3, making his first start since coming off the disabled list on Aug. 15, allowed two runs on four hits. He struck out three and walked two in six innings. 
Franklin Stubbs doubled in the first before Shelby hit his 18th homer. 
The Dodgers added a run in the ninth off reliever Terry Leach on consecutive singles by Tracy Woodson, Glenn Hof­fman and Valenzuela with two outs in the ninth. 
Giants 3, Phillies 2 PHILADELPHIA -Chris 

Speier hit a home run to snap an eighth-inning tie as the San Francisco Giants beat the Philadelphia Phillies 3-2 Tues­day night. 
With one out in the eighth and the score tied 2-2. Speier 
The Giants made it 2-0 in the third when Maldanado hit his 15th home run of the season. 
Pirates 1, Reds 0 

PI'ITSBURGH-Mike Dunne pitched a two-hitter for his first major-league shutout and Johnny Ray's first-inning single drove in the game's only run as the Pittsburgh Pirates defeated Cincinnati 1-0 Tues-. day night, extending the Reds' losing streak to five games. 
Dunne, 8-5, failed to allow a runner past second base, strik­ing out seven and walking one, as the Reds fell to 63-64, the first time they pave been under .500 this season. 
Andy Van Slyke singled with one out in the Pirates' first and stole second before scoring on Ray's single off Ted Power, 10­
8. Power lost to the Pirates for the first time in seven career decisions despite allowing only four hits over seven innings. 

Ourthree-year and 
.... two-yearscholarshipswon't make college easier. 
Justeasiertopayfor. 
Even ifyou didn't start college on ascholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
INTERESTED??? CALL CAPTAIN DOMINGO 239-6264 ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC CORPS 
welcome sac1< 


stuoents 

LET US SHOW YOU THE WORLD! 
+Computerized Airline Reservations +United Limo Tickets +Amtrack Reservations +Tours and Cruises +All Major Credit Cards Accepted 
Ask Mr. Foster

@ travelmore }==
Tt.lVPI «'tf'rVI(f 'dflCi lR8R 
LaFortune Student Center: 239·7080 Ollk:e Hours: Mon-Fri 8:J0.5:00 pm 
.... 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 
1987 
New stadium hon.ors former athletic director Krause 
Special to the Observer 
The new 5000-seat stadium just east of the ACC will be named after former director of athletics Edward W. "Moose" Krause. 
Dedication ceremonies are set for halftime of the Notre Dame-Michigan State soccer match, Sept. 18, the night before the Irish football team clashes with the Spartans. The soccer match begins at 7: 30 p.m. 
The lighted facility was con­structed last summer for use during the International Sum­mer Special Olympics Games. It will serve as the home for the Notre Dame soccer, track, lacrosse and field hockey teams. 
IAAF starts drug tests 
Associated Press 
ROME -The IAAF, the governing body of interna­tional track and field, has im­posed procedures for year-round drugs tests for ath­letes -both in competition and training -to try to prevent the use of illegal substances, its Medical Commission an­nounced Tuesday. 
The plan is to conduct ran­dom tests everywhere and at all times, "to chase the cheaters right into their train­ing havens and catch them red­handed," IAAF vice President Arne Ljungqvist of Sweden, who also heads the Medical Comission, said. 
Moose Krause has been on the Irish athletic scene since he showed up as a student 55 years ago. Earning monograms in football, basketball and track, he particularly excelled in bas­ketball, scoring 547 points in three seasons and leading the Irish to a 54-12 record. In 1976 he was inducted into the Na­tional Basketball Hall of Fame. 
Krause served as athletic director from 1948-1980, reliev­ing former head football coach Frank Leahy from his duties. He also coached the basketball team for six seasons, compiling a 98-48 record. 
The stadium features 2500 permanent bleacher seats on both sides of a 70-by-120 yard grass field. The field is sur­rounded by a nine-lane, Mondo­surface track, and is lighted by six standards with 16 lights apiece. 
''Being able to play under the lights at Krause Staidum is really going to benefit our pro­gram," says Irish soccer coach Dennis Grace. "It's an ab­soloutely incredible facility. It will be nice to see those lights on and several thousand people up in the stands when we come out for our games. 
"I think 5000 seats is just about right. If it were any 

ONEHOUR






MOTOPHOTO,. 
ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO • Pictures ready in one hour UNIVERSITY MALL • Custom Lab Quality 272-8243 
OFF FILM DEVELOPING 
With this coupon. receive S).OO OFF on a 36 exposure, s2.00 OFF on a 24 exposure, sl.OO OFF on a 12 exposure when presenting a roll of color print film (C-41 process only) for pro­
cessing and printing at One Hour Moto 
Photo. Coupon offprs may not· be combined. 1 Expires:September 301987 ONEHOUR 
1 . MOTOPHOTO 
EXTRA SET OF PRINTS 
With this coupon, receive a f'UE Extra· Set of 
Prints, when presenting one rilll of colo·r printfilm (C-41 process) for proces~ing and ·print­ing at One Hour Moto Photo. Offer limitl•d to 
one roll per coupon per customer. Not v.1lid with any other promotion. 
Expires:Seotember 30.1987 ONEHOUR 
larger, then maybe the seats wouldn't be as good for spec­tators. But it is terrific because the fans are close to the field and high up where they can see, but still not directly on top of the benches. 
"With Krause Stadium," continues Grace, "we're going to try our best, starting in '88, to get some of the better teams from other regions to here and play, and I think they 

ONEHOUR 
MOTOPHOTO 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 291-3096 

----~;;-~~--~~!Cic;··------------if=~~~-----------·c;ra(jiia~~~~sj)4;C:iiii __ _ 
L--·•••••••••••••••-••••••··----------------------·•••••••······!------------------------------· 
1
MOTOPHOTO 1 *UnM'rs,ty Mall only MOTOPHOTO 
24 Wallet Size Portraits 
With this coupon receive 24 wallet size 
portraits when purchasing any regularly pr1'ced portra"•t package at ONE HOUR MOTO PHOTO 0 t 
. ne coupon per cus om-er. Not valid with any other promotion. Expires:September 30.1987 ONEHOUR 


Weunesday, August 26, 1987 The Observer 

Crum defends coaching in summer's Pan Am games 

Welcome Back Students Good thru Sept '87 
w~e <ltolonial ttJnncnkr Jlouse , 

$l.OOOFFwithThisA~ 
OUR SPECIALTY p:;i:!~s~n OVEN-BAKED 
Limit 4 APPLE PANCAKESper coupon 


Open 7 days a week at 6:00am 

"an Imagecreated" 
232-5007 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND IN. 46617 we use... 
i(~ wmamx· 
Ot ltOffiOALI 
~· ~COLOR PERFECT' 

and so much more!!! 
0JAM1SON
0~~
-e 
NE\N RENDITIONS 1621 S/BEND AVE. ... (kings cellar is our neighoorJ... 

--------~---------------
Fennis Dembo scrambles for a loose ball in the U.S.'s 120-115 Pan American games loss to Brazil Sunday. Denny Crum, coach of the U.S. squad, defends his coaching in a story at left. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's IS accepting applications for the following position: 
Copy Editor · News Staff Reporter 
For further Information contact Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at The Observer (239-5303) 
Are youdenying yourself a better shot 



at grad school? 
Okay; it may be too late to get a 4.0. But ifs not too late to try to do better on your LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT. For that, there's Stanley H. Kaplan. 
No one has prepped more students than Stanley H. Kaplan. Our test-taking techniques and educational programs have prepared over 1 million students. 
So whatever grad school exam you're taking, caii us. Remember, the person next to you during your exam might have taken a Kaplan course. 

!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL C8''HER IJD. DON'T COMPETE Willi A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Denny Crum said he doesn't think the 
U.S. Pan American basketball team's loss to Brazil in the gold-medal game will hurt his chances for being named the Olympic coach in 1992. 
"I don't have any way to judge that, but I don't think so," said Crum, head coach at Louisville. "I talked to several USOC <United States Olympic Committee) officials after the game and they were very com­plimentary. 
"They congratulated me on a job well done and said we just ran into a hot team. I didn't get any heat from anybody." 
Brazil shocked the U.S. team 120-115 on Sunday. Crum now joins Jim Gudger of East Texas State as the only coaches not to win a gold medal in the Pan American games. 
Crum said despite that dis­tinction, he doesn't regret having taken the Pan Am job. 
"I'm tickled to death I had a chance to do it," he said Mon­day. "I'd do it again. I enjoyed every minute of it. We should have beaten Brazil, but I'm not going to make a negative sit­uation out of a great experi­ence. It was fun." 
Crum also isn't going to shoulder the blame for the loss. 
"In this business, you're al­ways going to get criticized, but we did the best we could do. I don't get to shoot the basketball 
"I don't know what more I could do. I feel good about what we did. I wouldn't change a thing, except the final score. Upsets happen; that's what sports are all about." 
see  us for all your retail haircare needs!!  1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7  
Phone 219/272-4135  
CHRISTY CHOATE Hair Designer Owner  ROD PENICK (formerly with L.S. Ayres) Hair Designer  PAM SEIDNER Hair Designn:  LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW!  
Manager  

------------~·~-~----·­
page 18 
Molitor hits in 39; Brewers down Tribe 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE Milwaukee's Paul Molitor extended his hit­ting streak to 39 games Tues­day night with a sixth-inning single against the Cleveland In­dians in the Brewers 10-9 vic­tory. 
Molitor, in his fourth at bat, lined reliever Don Gordon's first pitch in the sixth for a single to right field. 
Dale Sveum homered and drove in five runs to pace Mil­waukee. 
In his first at-bat in the bot­tom of the first, Molitor hit a fly ball to right field. Batting in the second he walked, and in the fourth he grounded out to second base. 
Molitor is 68-for-163, a .417 average, during his streak. For the season, Molitor is batting .371 but does not have enough plate appearances to qualify among the leaders. 
Molitor's streak is the fifth longest in modern major­league history and the longest the majors since Cincinnati's Pete Rose hit in a National League-record 44 consecutive games in 1978. The last time an American League player had a longer streak than Molitor's was in 1941 when the New York Yankees' Joe DiMaggio set the major-league record of 56 games. 
Molitor's next target is Ty Cobb's 40-game hitting streak in 1911 for Detroit. 
Also ahead for Molitor is George Sisler, who hit in 41 straight for the St. Louis Browns in 1922. 
Prior to 1900, Baltimore's Willie Keeler hit in 44 straight in 1897 and Chicago's Bill Dah­len hit in 42 straight in 1894. At that time, several rules were different, including foul balls not counting as strikes. 
The Brewers' designated hit­ter will try to make it 40 straight Wednesday night when Milwaukee hosts Cleveland again. Rich Yett is scheduled to pitch for the Indi­ans. 
All three major television networks, the MacNeil-Lehrer Newshour and a dozen newspapers who do not cover the Brewers on a regular basis descended on-County Stadium Tuesday to monitor Molitor. 
"If you learn anything about yourself, it's how you are going react to outside distractions of the streak. I've not had that much experience with the media in these numbers except for po~t-season play in 1981 and 1982 but that was more team focused," Molitor said before Tuesday's game. 
"If I've learned anything, it's that this game has helped you prepare for moments like this; you can keep things in perspec­tive." 
Molitor has missed 44 games with injuries. He would need to average almost four at-bats a game the rest of the season to accumulate the 502 plate ap­pearances necessary to qualify 
for the batting title. 
Molitor, who went 1-for-4 with a walk, singled in the sixth inning on the first pitch from reliever Don Gordon. Molitor moved within one game of tying Ty Cobb for fourth place on the major league list of modern-day hitting streaks. 
Molitor flied out in the first 
inning and walked in the second 
against starter Ken Schrom. 
He then grounded out sharply 
to second base in the fourth off 
Jamie Easterly. 

With a crowd of 15,580 on its feet Molitor didn't wait in the sixth. His liner hit the back dirt of the infield in the hole be­tween first and second base and sped into right field, and the crowd responded with a 1112­minute standing ovation. Molitor flied out in the eighth. 
Molitor is 68-for-164 (.415) 
during the streak that began 
July 16. 

Juan Nieves, 11-6, was the 
winner. 

Tigers 5, Twins 4 
MINNEAPOLIS Chet Lemon and Kirk Gibson each drove in two runs and Doyle Al­exander beat Minnesota for the second time within a week Tuesday night as the Detroit Tigers defeated the Twins 5-4. 
The Twins have lost seven of their last eight games and had their American League West lead cut to one game over Oak­land. 
Alexander, 2-0, gave up four runs on seven hits in 7 1-3 in­nings. 
Mike Henneman relieved Al­exander with one out in the eighth after Randy Bush's RBI triple and went on to earn his fourth save. 
Joe Niekro, 6-10, lost for the sixth time in his last seven deci­sions. 
Red Sox 7, White Sox 3 
BOSTON -Sam Horn hit two solo home runs and Dwight Evans reached the 100-RBI mark for the second time in his career Tuesday night, leading the Boston Red Sox over the Chicago White Sox 7-3. 
Evans, a 15-year veteran, and Marty Barrett keyed a four-run third inning with two­run singles. John Marzano homered in the Boston fourth. 
Steve Crawford, 5-3, relieved Boston starter Al Nipper in the 
.th the Red SOX ahead 6-3fifth Wl
and got the victory. 

"No, I've never lost a term paper because ofdisk error. But then, 
I've always used Sony." 
W
hen it's three o'clock in the morning and you're nearly done with your term paper, the last thing you want to see on the screen is "fatal disk error:· 
That's why so many people insist on Sony. 
One reason is that Sony invented the 3.5" disk drive as well as the 3.5" floppy diskette. 
Another reason Sony floppies are so popular on campus is their relentless reliability. And that goes for our 5.25': floppies, too. 
After all, when it comes to magnetic media, nobody's ahead of Sony. We're a world leader in audio, video and computer magnetic media. 
The thing to remem­ber about magnetic media in computers is that almost any input error can be corrected, but lost data is forever. 
So, instead of learning your lesson the hard way, trust the diskettes that set the standard for the others to follow. 
Use the Sony. 

SONY. 
THE ONE AND ONLY. 

'See your participating dealer. Sungla~s offer good on purchases of 10 of any 3.5" or 5.25" disks while they last. @ 1987 Sony Corporation of America. Sony and The One and Oaly are trademarks of Sony.
L-__________:::..:::::..=--=-::.==:.:.:.:::==.:.::....==:.:..:..:=~:::....=.::.=.==-::.::_:..:....:..:.:.::.__________• 


WELCOME BACK SENIORS 
SENIOR CLUB SPECIALS: WED••••ROM & COKE••••$0.75 DRAFT•••• _-. $0.75 THURS•••BARTLES & JAY.MES•••$1.00 DRAFT•••••••• $0.75 Come Join us for the "SENIOR HOT TUB PARTY" starting at 7:00 pm 
•membership cards & application forms available at the club during 
business hours HOURS: 9:00 -2:00am Wed.-Sat. 

Cedric Figaro (48) applies pressure against Penn State's John Shaffer last season. Figaro is currently awaiting a decision on his academic eligibility for this season. Marty Strasen details this and other problems the squad Is facing so far this fall in his story at right. 
WELCOME NDSMC STUDENTS 
"1 0% discount with student ID" 




CHRfS' ICE CREAM 
1723 South Bend Ave. (next to turtle ·creek} 
The Observer page 1g 
Injuries, ineligibilities hit as ND fall workouts begin 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
While Lou Holtz has been pleased with what he's seen on the field these past two weeks, a number of developments off the field are less than promis­ing. 
The Irish have lost the 1987 services of: 
• Offensive guards Jason Cegielski and John Zaleski. The two were dismissed from the University for academic reasons after spending most of their freshman year on aca­demic probation. 
Cegielski and Zaleski were two of the five players suspended from spring football 
last year for  disciplinary  
reasons, and  were also  
Irish  

continued from page 24 
in Notre Dame history. 
And while that's quite a bil­ling to live up to, there is cer­tainly no shortage of talent among the class of 1991. 
Freshman running backs Ricky Watters and Tony Brooks were the leading ground gainers in Saturday's scrimmage with 88 and 55 yards, respectively. 
"Our backs ran well," Holtz said. "Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters have an awful lot of talent." 
First team tailback Mark 


IF YOU CAN•T HOW CAN YOU 
It's back to school time and Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical wants to take care of your vision needs this semester. We're Indiana's largest vision care provider and we can put that expertise to work for you. Please use the coupons below. They cover the vision care products and services you'll need for your schoolwork. When you have a vision problem, there's someone you can turn to. Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical. 

Bring A Friend 10°/o OFF ZFor 1 Eveglasses Purchase 
not vSiid with other offers or on sale Items
Exam Fee or previous orders 
th each penoon's purdlase of 
Please present coupon at time of purchase. All offers not valid with other offers or on sale items or previous orders. Offers expire September 30, 1987. 

South Bend Mishawaka 1111 E Ireland Rd 506 W. McKinley Bro1dmoor Plaza K-Mart/Mutin Center 1croa from Sc:ouadale Mall next door to Osco DruR 
291-4000 258-5000 
suspended by Holtz last No­vember for separate infrac­tions of team rules. 
• Sophomore center Steve Huffman. Huffman quit the team last week for personal reasons. 
His absence has prompted Holtz and the Irish coaching staff to try defensive tackle Matt Dingens at the back-up center position -just in case. Senior co-captain Chuck Lanza will start in the middle. 
• Senior split end Tony Eason. Eason will sit out the entire year after undergoing surgery to his left knee in July. The surgery repaired ligament damage suffered during a sum­mer workout. 
Eason could apply for eligibility in 1988. 
Green showed why Holtz has tabbed him the squad's premier back, picking up 47 yards on six carries, scoring a 
touchdown and turning a bro­ken play into a 25-yard gain. 
Defensively, Holtz saw what he wanted to see in the scrim­mage. 
"The whole defense hit well," Holtz said. "I thought the hitting was outstanding today. 
"The defense played with in­tensity and -above all -they scored." 
Holtz was referring to the first touchdown of the day, when first team inside linebacker Ned Bolcar inter­
• Freshman lineman Brian Shannon. The 6-5, 230-pounder from New Wilmington, Pa., broke his ankle in the Pennsyl­vania Big 33 all-star game ear­lier this month. 
In addition, senior outside linebacker Cedric Figaro, sophomore inside linebacker Mike Stonebreaker and sopho­more center Jim Dadiotis are awaiting decisions concerning their academic eligibility. 
Figaro has been given per­mission to practice and is ex­pected to be in uniform this season. 
The situation with the two sophomores, however, looks less promising. Both have been kept out of practices so far. 


cepted a Pete Graham pass and returned it 61 yards for a touch­down. Senior outside linebacker Cedric Figaro pres­
sured Graham on the play. 
"It was just a tremendous ef­fort by Cedric Figaro today," Holtz said. 
A number of penalties -many on the offensive and defensive lines -plagued Saturday's scrimmage, but Holtz said those can easily be ironed out. 
"Most of those were on the younger players," Holtz said. "It's a combination of things. We don't have a history of making those mistakes on Sat­urday, and we won't make them this year. " 

page 20 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 
Sutton becomes latest scuffball suspect of season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK jim Palmer, a three-time Cy Young award winner when he pitched for the Baltimore Orioles, said Tues­day that Don Sutton told him several years ago the best way to scuff a ball was to use sandpaper pasted on your glove hand. 
Palmer recalled the advice, unaware that a television close­up shot Monday night showed a patch of some sort in the Cal­ifornia Angels right-hander's bare left hand as he rubbed up the ball in a game against the visiting New York Yankees. 
Sutton, who has been accused of scuffing the ball, said the patch was a bandage to cover a blister. 
Palmer, discussing scuff balls in general, said Sutton told him in the "early 1980s" how to doctor a ball. 
"Don told me to just take some sandpaper and Super Glue, put it on your glove hand 

Miller 
continued from page 24 
rigan did have a problem with 
that." 
Once the story broke, Cor­rigan tried to call back Morten­sen, but Mortensen was on vacation. So Corrigan called the Associated Press office in Atlanta to deny the coverup. 
Corrigan then talked to Davidson, who wrote a follow­up story on the situation. Both Davidson and Corrigan agreed that he was quoted correctly, but the assumption made by Mortensen in the second para­graph of the article involved a misunderstanding. 
"We were not talking about the same thing," said Cor­rigan. 
In their extended conversa­tion Davidson said that Cor­rigan, though upset over the report, was not "ranting and raving." 
"Gene Corrigan is a first­class person, and it was han­dled in a first-class way," said Davidson. 
Meanwhile Miller is ex­pected to testify in front of the grand jury, and has been advised not to talk about the case. Miller had indicated as early as April, however, that he would not be returning to Notre Dame in the fall for a fifth season of eligiblity. He finished school and graduated in the summer. 
A July 21 Associated Press story said that Miller and 
Robert  Banks,  a  defensive  
tackle  at  Notre  Dame  last  
season  and  a  seventh-round  

draft pick of the Houston Oilers, were both subpoenaed by the grand jury in Chicago. The story says that the Notre Dame athletic department learned of the subpoenas in May. 
Several other college football and basketball players have lost their eligibility for their in­volvement with Walters and Bloom. Chris Carter of Ohio State, James Lott of Texas, Teryl Austin of Pittsburgh and basketball star Derrick McKey of Alabama all have been declared ineligible for their senior seasons. Running back Charles Gladman of Pittsburgh was declared ineligible after refusing to cooperate with the NCAA and the university into Walter's and Lloyd's dealings with Pittsburgh's players. 
and when you rub up the ball, was accused of scuffing several nings, did not ask for any balls a 4.36 earned run average, al­kind of scuff-it," Palmer said. baseballs, and three balls were to be checked, although home lowed three hits and two runs, 
Palmer recalled that Sut­forwarded· to the American plate umpire Rick Reed did both earned, in seven innings. ton's advice did not work for League office by umpire Don remove the ball Sutton used to him. Denkinger. strike out Rick Cerone in the Manager Gene Mauch of the 
"I was working on it in the The Yankees, who won Mon­fifth. Angels said he wasn't aware of bullpen and it was so humid day night's game 3-2 in 11 in-Sutton, 8-10 this season with the situation involving Sutton. that night, 95-degrees and humidity to match. The sandpaper kept falling off my hand and my skin was coming 
FRESHMAN SHOPPING TRIP
off because glue was taking it with it," said Palmer. Sutton, a winner of 318 games 
Opportunity To Buy Those Things
in a big-league career that began in 1966, pleaded in­You Now Find You Need nocence to doctoring the ball. 
"Some of the guys told me afterward that they were 
(zooming in)," he said. "It Saturday, August 29, 1987 1:00 P.M. 
probably made for very enter­taining (TV). I suppose you are not going to buy that it was pic­BUSES LEAVE FROM STEPAN CENTER tures of my kids. And, you probably wouldn't buy that it was (a bandage) covering up a Tickets Available at blister, which it was. 
The Freshman Year Of Studies
"But I give you my word, it wasn't sandpaper, it wasn't an Wednesday, Thursday, Friday emery board and I don't mind being checked on the mound by the umpires, ever." 
In his previous start, Wed­



NO CHARGE
nesday night against Bal­timore, the 42-year-old veteran 

WELCQ\1E BACK~ 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY A MINISTRY OF 
Ill 
·woRSHIP) MusrcJ CoNFIRMATION) R~C~I~A~J RETREATS) SPIRITUAL COUNSELING) RELIGIOUS BULLETIN) MARRIAGE PREPARATION)UNIVERSITY VILLAGE) CHAPLAINCIES) AND ADMINISTRATION I 
OFFICES LOCATED AT: 
HESBURGH LIBB8RY CONCOURSE) 239-6536 
BAD IN HALL) L59-52q2
SACRED HEART CHURCH) 239-7091 
-----j 

VVednesday, August 26, 1987 The Observer page 21 
Attention 
Veteran Sports Writers 
There will be a brief meeting for all returning Observer sports writers at 7:30 on Thursday in the Observer office to discuss fall assignments. Questions -call Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303 
Notre Dame Students: 

LOFTS 
* 
Meets University Standards 

* 
All Bolts, NO NAILS! 

* 
Stained and Finished 

* 
Installation Available 


On Sale At: Stepan Center Aug. 26 & 29 9 am-5 pm ONLY Including Tax 
$60 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. Hodgkin's disease, the form of cancer that has stricken New York Giants tackle Karl Nelson, is one of the most treatable and surviv­able forms of the disease, al­though its cause remains un­known, doctors and researchers said Tuesday. 
The disease attacks the body's lymphatic system and is characterized mostly by the progressive enlargement of the lymph nodes. 
"Basically, Hodgkin's dis­ease is a mystery to a lot of people," said Dr. Alan Lip­pman, associate director of the oncology department at Newark Beth Israel Hospital. "The more doctors examine it, the more questions we have. We really don't know how to classify it." 
The disease first was des­cribed by English physician Thomas Hodgkin more than a century ago. Until 1947, it was considered an infectious dis­ease rather than a cancer, said Larry Garfinkel, vice presi­dent of epidemiology and sta­
Nelson's cancer treatable 
tistics for the American Cancer Society. 
"What's peculiar about it is that is has the features of a malignancy and also the fea­tures of a chronic infection, at least under a mircoscope," said Dr. Robert Krigel, direc­tor of hematology at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. 
Hodgkin's disease occurs at any age, although the Ameri­can Cancer Society said it mostly strikes young adults 15 to 35. 
Its symptoms include swell­ing in the arm, neck or groin areas, and can also be accom­panied by fever, weight loss, back or abdominal pain, night sweats, nausea and vomiting. 
In Nelson's case, the disease was discovered during a routine chest X-ray prior to arthroscopic surgery for an arthritic condition in his left shoulder. 
Once the cancer is detected, a biopsy is performed and the tissue evaluated. 
Lippman said Hodgkin's is classified by four stages. In Stage I, only one area of the body is involved. Stage II is two 
VEL(OME B·-A···C·-.K.: .. ,.>;.
. : ·-; ! :.1 i 
1 
. ~ -' ~ • ~ -f . i ,. ~' ,..•.. , ~..., .: 

--· N.D E S.M. C. STUDENTS STAFF•' i~F
E 

__ 'IOU' RE fROBABLY~ WE·LL· ~EST ED· 1 AFTER 'fOUR SUMMtR·~J3R.EAK, WHY . }_NOT STAY WELL ]E5TED. WlTH A:WATERBED 
FROM WATERBEDS, WATER:f>EDS, V./ATERBEDS !/ 

areas, such as the neck and 
arm. Stage III is two areas in 
different parts of the body, 
such as neck and groin, and 
Stage IV, the most serious, is 
when the disease has spread to 
an internal organ. 

Nelson has been diagnosed as Stage I, according to the Giants' team physician. 
There are also three or four subclassifications of the dis­ease, depending on what cells are found in the affected lymph nodes, Lippman said. 
In almost all cases, the prescribed treatment is radia­tion, chemotherapy or a com­bination of the two. 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAOUE 
Eut 
W L Pet. OB 

St. Louis 74 51 .592 
New York 70 56 .556 4.5 
Montreal 68 56 .548 5.5 
Philadelphia 66 eo· .524 8.5 
Chicago 62 82 .500 11.5 
Pittsburgh 55 71 .437 19.5 
Wut 

San Francisco 67 60 .526 Houston 65 61 .516 1.5 Cincinnati 63 64 .496 4 Loa Angeles 56 70 .«4 10.5 Atlanta 55 69 .444 10.5 San Diego 52 73 .416 14 
Tueadey'e Reeulta Atlanta at Chicago. ppd. Los Angeles 3, New York 1 San Francisco 3, Philadelphia 2 Pittsburgh 1, Cincinnati 0 St. Louis 7, Houston 1 San Diego 5, Montreal 1 
AMERICAN LEAOUE 
e..t 
w L Pet. GB 

Detroit 74 50 .597 
New York 71 55 .563 4 
Milwaukee 67 56 .536 7.5 
Boston 61 64 .488 13.5 
Baltimore 57 69 .452 18 

Cleveland 48 78 .381 27 
Wut 
Minnesota 67 81 .523 Oakland 65 61 .516 1 California 63 64 .496 3.5 Kansas City 61 64 .488 4.5 Texas 60 65 .480 5.5 Seattle 59 67 .468 7 Chicago 52 73 .416 13.5 
Tueadey'a Reeulta Oakland 9, Baltimore 7 Boston 7, Chicago 3 Detroit 5, Minnesota 4 Texas 15, Kansas City 8 Milwaukee 10, Cleveland 9 California 5, New York 1 Toronto 6, Seattle 3 


Garner buys Indy team 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Actor 
James Garner, who's driven 
the pace car twice in the In­
dianapolis 500, will join a motel 
owner in sponsoring a racing 
team for the 1988 race, a pub­
lished report said. 
Garner and Larry Cahill of 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, will be co­
owners of the team, The In­
dianapolis News reported 
Tuesday. A driver will be 
named later. 
Publicists later announced 
that the pair would hold a news 
conference Thursday in In­
dianapolis to discuss their part­
nership. 
Garner, best-known for his 
television roles on "Maverick" 
and "The Rockford Files," 
drove the pace car for the Indy 
500 in 1977 and 1985. 
Cahill, 50, owns a racing shop 
in Cedar Rapids and with his 
brother owns 60 motels, most 
of them Holiday Inns, in 24 
states. 
Both Garner and Cahill have 
racing backgrounds. 
Garner drove dragsters in 
the 1940s and became further 
involved in racing after he 
made the movie "Grand Prix" 
in the 1960s. 

The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1987 

Rosenthal did not pretend to be his junior and senior years, and ready to take on a role as a he captained the squad his final 




A.D. 

leading figure in college ath­season. continued from page 24 letics. 
"For my own schedule it Rosenthal received his bac­sources. Financial responsibil~ would be highly appropriate for helor of science degree in ity is going· to have to prevail." me to try to avoid some of those finance from Notre Dame in 
In the area of television con­assignments for a few years 1954. After two seasons of pro­tracts, Rosenthal noted that he and to become much more fessional basketball with the will rely heavily on the exper­familiar with the operations of Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons, he 
tise of Sports Information the department," he said. began his banking career in Director Roger Valdiserri, al­"Notre Dame is going to be up 1957 as the vice president and though he said that his business front in those areas, and I think director of Indiana Bank and experience has included con­we have lots of capable repre­Trust Co. in Fort Wayne. tract negotiations of a similar sentatives in the athletic depar­For the past 25 years Rosen­magnitude. tment." thal served as chairman of the 
Rosenthal also referred back With Corrigan leaving the board and chief executive offi­to money matters in the area ACC for the final time this cer of the St. Joseph Bancor­of football scheduling. week, Rosenthal has the added poration and St. Joseph Bank 
"The University is national disadvantage of getting a late, and Trust Co. He announced his in scope," he said. "We'll be in quick start in his new job. resignation from that post June all parts of the country. But it "It would have been very 24, 1987. is a business, and we'll have to nice to have had several He was chosen to the NCAA take financial considerations months to get ready for the Silver Anniversary Top Five in into our review. But I would job," he said. "I'd like to think 1979 as the NCAA honored five hope we would continue those of it as being a very exciting distinguished former student­great traditional rivalries, and start." athletes who completed their at the same time add new A native of St. Louis, Rosen­eligibility 25 years previous. schools to the schedule." thal was a three-year starter Rosenthal and his wife, 
Despite the position in the for the Irish basketball team. Marilyn, are the parents of the spotlight he is assuming, He earned all-America honors eight children. 
!Football Notebook returns Sept. 31 
The Observer¥red Dobie 
New Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal-"There are specific things about the athletic program that are very new to me." 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 






DELIVERS® 
Apply in person How do you ~et a custom­made, freshly-baked pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less? Just pick up the phone and call Domino's Pizza! 


Margaritaville at CHI-CHI'S ever sda now wedn s(.fay too, r famous JUMBO RGARITA for $1. 0 off the reg 1 r price! choose from our classic lime, strawberry, rasberry, and fuzzy naval flavors ole!  
NOW HIRING Waiters, waitresses, and bartenders Friendly Working Atmosphere FLEXIBLE HOURS--WILL WORK AROUND CLASS SCHEDULE 16599 Cleveland Rd. 272-3672  

You'll get a piping hot pizza, covered with our special sauce, bubbling with Real® cheese, and smothered with your favorite toppings. And you'll get it in 30 minutes 
Pizza 1 
$7.95 
or less. Guaranteed! Call Domino's Pizza today. 
Call us! 

277-2151 
DOMINO'S

Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS FREE. 


r-------------, r-------------,r-------------,
Thick Crust 1 2 for Dinner for Four 
$10.99 
Ask for the Dinner For Four and get a 16" two-topping pizza plus four 12 oz. cans of Coke<~ for just $1 0.99. One coupon per order. Not valid with any other offers. Tax not included. Good only at loca­tions listed. Expires: 9/13/87 Feet, Free Delivery'" 

L•••II.-;...J L----------:...J L•••II:...J 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. © 1987 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

$6.00 I 
I
Get a 12" extra-thick crust pizza 
I
with extra cheese and pepperoni or sausage for only $6.00. Good on Thursday and Sunday only. No coupon necessary. Tax not Included. Good at location listed. Expires: 9/13/87 
Faat, Free Delivery" Receive two 12" cheese pizzas for just $7.951 Each additional top­ping just $1.25 for both pizzas. Tax not included. One coupon per order. Good only at listed locations. Expires: 9/13/87 
Faat, Free Delivery'" 


23

August 26, 1987 The Observer 

Lost in the shuffle? 
Well, your worries are over. Come join The Observer, the campus dally where you can meet over 200 other students who work from 8 a.m. until 4 a.m. to bring you the work of art you and 12,000 other readers hold In your collective hands. Why simply read when you 


CREATE?! 
The Observer. 

Comics 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 -code 5 R11sorts 9 Biological 
seam 14 Tab 15 Hack 16 NY city 17 -Knlevel 18 Zenith 
19  Bed and  - 
20  Mind  
21  Entrance halls  
23  Car necessity  

25 Chemical 
ending 26 Double c.Jrve 27 Going-away 
parties 32 Contemptible 34 Malacca 35 Word with 
note & loose 36 Flower receptacles 37 Churlish 
expressions 38 Rage 39 Healing plant 40 Move slowly 41 To be In 
Tours 42 Vaudeville act 44 Fireplace 
residue 45 Sault -Marie 46 Gives 
evidence 50 Fit exactly 55 Be concerned 56 -Oakley 57 Actress Kirk 58 Military group 59 Snake 60 Goddess of 
discord 61 Gr. cheese 62 Crosses 63 "-Mabie" 64 Gratis 
DOWN 1 Helps a 
criminal 2 Fastener 3 Verdugo of 
films 

08/26/87

All Rights Reserved 
4 -up and no 
place to go 5 Barrel parts 6 Kind of tiger 7 Discharges 8 Memorable 
birthday 9 Ripped off 10 Baseball 
family name 11 Ring loudly 12 Rabbit 13 Termini 22 Thomas -, 
Scot. historian 24 Literary 
monogram 27 Hollandaise 28 Ad lib 36 Touch lightly 47 More sensible 29 -freedoms 37 Spotted horse 48 Hackneyed 30 Golf warning 41 Time zone 49 Bristles 31 Swine's place letters 50 Eur. river 32 Gaucho 43 Fall flowers 51 Erase 
weapon 44 Army order 52 --China 33 Above 46 Chief Norse 53 United 34 Hid gods 54 Fatigue 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
QI<'AY Rt&Hr. PON'r tcr 
Yt'-'. YOIJ ARE 1r $11K£ 'llr
lfO Y€1/KS ()(.p 
ftJ?... HIINb

TrXJIIY 
IN 7HER£ .I! .~5/6/lr 
I I ! 
Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
.. 



Student Union Board presents: 


East Raceway 
-Ride the Rapids Free Transpo Leaves 5 pm from the Library Circle 
BACK TO SCHOOL 

Returns 7:45 pm
Tonight 

Sign up in SUB office on the 2nd Floor LaFortune 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 pm 

Approximately $3 for 2 hours of wild fun! ! ! 
$2:00 

Engineering Auditorium No Food or Drink allowed 
Wednesday ~;; 






Sports
page 24 VVednesday, August 26, 1987 
Rosenthal named new Notre Dame A.D. 
Former banker takes over as Corrigan goes to ACC 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor  resigning his post to become the new commissioner of the Atlantic Coast Conference.  
Integrity  and  experience  Fr. William Beauchamp, Ex­ 
were the key issues discussed  ecutive Vice President of the  
at the press conference Aug. 4  University,  said  that  saying  
naming Richard A. Rosenthal the new director of athletics at  goodbye to Corrigan was not one of the things he planned on  
Notre Dame.  doing first as vice president of  
The 54-year-old Notre Dame alumnus and former chief ex­ the University, but that he was happy to introduce Rosenthal  
ecutive of St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. admitted to lacking excperience in the area of col­ as Corrigan's successor, saying "Dick is a person I can work comfortably with."  
lege athletics, but noted that with his administrative skills  Rosenthal's ground and  business back­administrative  
and the experience of the peole working with him, he hoped "to  skills are his strengths, and they figured heavily in his com­ 
insure the integrity of a great program." ''The job I am being hired to  ments at the press conference. "Any business person would be conscious of the fact that we  
do is to administer a complex  are  finite  in  available  re­ 
and  very  important depart­ sources," Rosenthal said on his  
ment," said Rosenthal. "There  overview of the athletic pro­ 
. are specific things about the athletic progr:tm that are very  gram at Notre Dame. "I'm con­vinced that part of the educa­ 
new to me.  tional  experience  of  the  
"Without  the  help  of  the  University is the totality of the  
professionals  in  this  depart­ athletic program. We have the  
ment  I  would  be  very  con­ people who will do everything  
Dick Rosenthal (standing) meets the press tive Vice President Fr. E. William Beauchamp. after it was announced that he would succeed Pete Gegen details the hiring of Rosenthal and  cerned. With their availability, I'm simply challenged by it." Rosenthal was hired as ath­ in their power to ensure that continues. But clearly we are an institution of finite re- 
Gene Corrigan (far right) as Notre Dame's ath­Corrigan's resignation at right.  letic director after Gene Cor­ 
letic director. Looking on is University Execu­ rigan announced that he was  see A.D., page 22  


Miller declared ineligible, cover-up denied 
By PETE GEGEN Miller, who decided not to story designed by Notre Dame Assistant Sports Editor return to the University for a and Miller to explain the end fifth year after undergoing of his career. 
A misunderstanding between knee surgery for the third time Notre Dame Athletic Director during the 1986 football season, Gene Corrigan and a reporter has been subpeonaed along for the Atlanta Journal is with dozens of college and pro largely responsible for a re­players -as well as several col­ported coverup in the Notre lege administrators -to testify Dame Athletic Department in front of the grand jury. over the summer. On July 18 a copyrighted 
The reported coverup in­story in the Atlanta Journal re­volved former Irish football ported that, according to Cor­player Alvin Miller and New rigan, Miller told Notre Dame York-based agent Norby Wal­officials that he accepted cash ters. Walters, along with his as­and signed with Walters and as­sociate Lloyd Bloom, is under sociate Bloom. Under NCAA investigation by the FBI and by regulations, this would make a Chicago-based grand jury for Miller ineligible to play alleged payments made by the football. The story also added sports agents to college football that, according to Corrigan, players. Miller's injury was a cover 
Holtz happy after 1st week 

By MARTY STRASEN closely at individual perfor­Terry Andrysiak has estab­Assistant Sports Editor mances." lished himself as Holtz' top And Holtz has more than his man. The elusive senior fits 
Lou Holtz has a lot to look at share of individuals who can well into the Irish ground at­and less than three weeks to do perform. tack, and the big questionit. Senior flanker and Heisman heading into the fall was his 
And-somehow-that's com­Trophy candidate Tim Brown ability to complete passes on a forting. has been limited in the early consistent basis. 
At a time of the year when fall workouts because of ill­In Saturday's scrimmage,the second-year Irish football ness, but ran a few plays in Sat­Andrysiak threw for 44 yards mentor looks more at individ­urday's scrimmage and made on a perfect 5-for-5 day.ual performances than team two receptions for 17 yards. "All my goals are for the play, Holtz can count on Meanwhile, two sophomores team," Andrysiak said. "I'd making some tough decisions who sat out their freshman like to help us go to a majorbefore the Sept. 12 opener at year under NCAA Proposition bowl game and have our of­
Michigan. 48 have completed successfully fense be one of the best in the 
.. "There were some impres­their first-year studies. On the country."sive individual performances," field, inside linebacker John The crop of freshman Holtz said after the team's first Foley and quarterback Tony recruits already has been full scrimmage this past Satur­Rice have been impressive, al­called one of the best in the day. "It's tough to tell too many though a bit rusty from the country -and perhaps the best things about the team without year off. seeing the films, but we look At the quarterback slot, see IRISH, page 19 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­

editor of the Atlanta Journal, now say that a misunderstand­ing between Corrigan and Chris Mortensen, the reporter who broke the story, resulted in Mortensen assuming that a coverup was taking place. Cor­rigan also added that Morten­sen led him to believe that Mil­ler had already been found guilty of accepting payments and signing a contract with Walters, an implication which has not been proven true. 
"The whole thing just makes me sick," said Corrigan. "I thought (Mortensen) said Al­vin Miller was found guilty. So I said that if Miller gave up playing football because he broke the rules, he was doing us a favor. It would be the nice thing to do and typical of the kind of kid Alvin is." 
Corrigan, who denies ever knowing that Miller was in­volved with Walters and Bloom, said he talked to Mor­tensen because he was trying to help Mortensen out in his coverage of the Walters-Bloom case. According to Davidson, Mortensen is recognized as being on the leading edge otthe case. 
"Corrigan was very candid talking to Mortensen,'' said Davidson. "Chris was inclined to make the assumption that there was a Notre Dame coverup story. I don't know if that is wrong or right. But Cor­
see MILLER, page 20 

Student tix sales set 
Special to The Observer 

Football ticket sales to students are slated to begin with seniors on Monday August 31. The price for the package of five games is $50. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent to all students with a campus or local address. If you have not yet received your application or if the class status pre­printed on your application is incorrect, you are asked to come to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC prior to your designated class issue day. 
On the day specified for your class, bring your applica­tion, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC on the day specified for your class. Gate 10 is a change from the application which states sales will take place at Gate 3. 
One student may present a maximum of four (4) appli· cations and ID cards. Married students wishing to pur­chase a ticket for their spuse must show proof of marriage. The ticket for a spouse is the same price as a student ticket. 
After seniors Monday, the sales schedule is as follows: juniors on Tuesday, September 1; sophomores, graduate students and law students Wednesday September 2; and freshmen on Thursday, September 3. 





