
Flab-page6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 77 MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's , 

Morrissey SYR lost after skit incident 
By CHRIS JULKA three weeks, according to 
Copy Editor Ryan. Ryan said the work will include acting as "big brot­
Morrissey Hall will forfeit hers and coaching basketball one SYR and will not have an­at St. Hedwig's," a local parish other SYR until certain com­that sponsors an outreach pro­munity service work is per­gram. formed as part of the penalties The action came in response stemming from the condition to this past year's Christmas the Memorial Library skits performed by Morrissey Auditorium was left in after the Hall on the evening of Dec. 5 in Morrissey Christmas skits, ac­the Memorial Library cording to Father Thomas auditorium. Streit, rector of Morrissey. "The content of the skits was 
Penalties for the Morrissey raised in the meeting, but Dr. Hall Christmas skits were dis­Goldrick made it clear this was cussed by the hall government not the reason for the sanc­of Morrissey and John tions," Ryan said. "They were Goldrick, associate vice presi­enacted only because of the dent for residence life, in a condition that the auditorium meeting 4 p.m. Friday, said was left in." Jim Ryan, Morrissey presi­Empty beer cans and dent. squashed twinky wrappers lit­
The meeting was the most tered the library auditorium recent of three conferences the day after the skits took concerning the skits, and it led place, said Streit. to an agreement that specific As a result, the Office of Stu­performers in the Morrissey dent Activities immediately
Intense observational study skits will be obliged to give two banned the hall from using the 
Students sit back and put their feet up in to three hours in community 
Theodore's to watch the New York Giants service every Saturday for see MORRISSEY, page 3 
Demonstrations to highlight Alcohol Awareness Week 
By ELIZABETH R. stay and watch," according to they've been saying, giving LaFortune, according to Non­this will keep people aware. We 
CORNWELL Junior Class President Cathy them tests to demonstrate the nencamp. can't let them let it go. 
Staff Reporter Nonnencamp. _ alcohol's effects on their motor "There will also be a lecture "Last year they ran a pretty "They'll be run by the In­control, speech, reaction at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the New predictable program -films The campus group Bacchus diana State Police and Notre . times," she said. Orleans room at LaFortune, and lectures that students 
trample the Denver Broncos at Super Bowl XXI Sunday evening. 
has teamed with student gov­Dame Security in two different ernment to declare this week dorms each night. First they'll Alcohol Awareness Week. The pick over-twenty-one volun­groups are sponsoring a series teers from the audience and of demonstrations and lectures give them each six beers, mon­to promote the responsible use itoring them the whole time. of alcohol, based on the theme Then the officers will give a ten "Friends Keep Friends Alive." or fifteen minute talk about the 
"The demonstrations are effects of alcohol," said Non­aimed at catching people as nencamp. they go by -hooking their at­Finally, they'll use the stu­tention, and getting them to dents as examples of what 
Callers take credit for recent kidnappings of Americans 
Associated Press envoy Terry Waite arrived in Beirut on Jan. 12 on a mission 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -An to seek the release of hostages. anonymous caller Sunday claimed the weekend abduc­The Christian Voice of tion of three American teach­Lebanon radio station said it ers and an Indian professor in received the two calls Sunday, the name of an underground but it was not clear if they were group linked to Iran and made by the same man. threatened to kill them if the United States helps Iraq. The calls could not be aut­
henticated. The extremist 
An earlier caller, also claim­Shiite Moslem group usually ing to speak for the Organiza­delivers statements to local tion of the Oppressed on Earth, newspapers or Western news said the educators were agencies when it wants to grabbed on Saturday to publicize a claim, and the Voice prevent the extradition from of Lebanon has been known to West Germany to the United be inaccurate on Moslem­States of Mohammed Ali related affairs. Hamadi, a Lebanese man sought in a 1985 TWA hijacking. The first caller said the group 
would kill a hostage if Hamadi, 
Twenty-three foreigners now 22, were extradited to the are reported missing and United States, where he is believed kidnapped in wanted on charges of air piracy Lebanon, including eight and murder in the June 1985 seized since Anglican Church TWA hijacking to Beirut. 
but we don't have the specifics didn't attend. We heard it all 
The demonstrations will take as to topic or speaker yet," back in high school health. This place at 10 p.m. each night, Nonnencamp said. year we decided to take a dif­today in StanfordKeenan and "We decided going into this ferent approach. Maybe by Walsh, Tuesday in Alumni and that we'd take a risk to make using the students and using Zahm, and Wednesday in Flan­it hit home. Mter the alcohol­the momentum of the ner and LaFortune. Student related injuries of last semes­tradgedies, we can get some at­Body President Mike Switek ter, people should know, but tention," Nonencamp said. and Off-Campus Commissioner they don't. It's too easy to for­"The problem is not getting Race Thoman are scheduled to get the shock -go out on a better, if anything, it's getting be two of the student volunteers Friday night, have two beers in Wednesday's presentation in and it's forgotten. Hopefully see SENSE, page 3 


New publication debuts this week 
By MARK DICKINSON Senior Staff Reporter  servative. "We are just trying to be thought­provoking," he said.  journal was formed after a group of students, faculty and alumni "learned  
A new student monthly ad­ Common  Sense  operates  through painful firsthand ex­ 
dressing social issues will  on financial donations from  perience that  no  adequate  
appear on the Notre Dame  students, faculty, and others  forum exists at Notre Dame  
and Saint Mary's campuses  outside the University. Mer­ for the dissemination of  a  
Tuesday.  chant said  the  printing is  wide variety of viewpoints  
The  editor  of  Common  donated  by  "a friend"  in  on controversial issues," ac­ 
Sense, Joe  Merchant,  said  South Bend. Common Sense  cording to Merchant.  
the journal will be circulated  receives no money from Stu­ 
in a similar manner as The  dent Activities because the  Merchant said he believes  
Observer and The Scholas­ journal formed  too  late to  Common  Sense  will  be  
tic, but he emphasizes that,  apply for assistance.  "received well" by the com­ 
unlike tions,  these two publica­Common Sense will  Articles in Common Sense  munity, especially by fac­ulty and graduate students  
not cover campus news.  are written by Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates,  whom he thinks lack a campus publication oriented  
Instead, he says Common  faculty  and  alumni.  Mer­ toward them. The adminis­ 
Sense contains essays meant  chant  said  he  hopes  this  tration  "quite  willingly"  
to "stimulate discussion on  diverse group of writers will  gave its approval for the dis­ 
issues of justice and peace  appeal to a cross section of  tribution of the journal on  
in a wide range of areas" in­ the campus  and will  help  campus, he said.  
cluding economics, culture,  "bind  the  community  to­ 
and politics.  gether."  The journal is named after  
According  to  Merchant,  The first issue of Common  Thomas Paine's eighteenth­ 
the journal will not particu­ Sense  will  state  as  its  century  pamphlet  "Com­ 
larly aim to be liberal or con­ "editorial purpose" that the  mon Sense," Merchant said.  



In Brief 
Lee's Ribs was raided for the second time in two weeks early Sunday morning. Three arrests were made by South Bend Police in the 12:42 a.m. raid. Further in­formation on the bust was not available from police records Sunday. -The Observer 
Notre Dame partially closed down at 3 p.m. Friday, as some staff members were allowed to go home early, said Provost Timothy O'Meara. Classes, however, were not canceled, and Security officers and dining hall employees stayed to work their normal hours, he said. Staff members were allowed to go home early in order to avoid congestion on the slippery roads, said O'Meara, add­ing that he couldn't recall the last time the University had closed down early. -The Observer 
"Winter Comfort for the Cold" is a student group helping to clothe homeless people on the Ohio State University campus. They've set up collection boxes at eight campus-area locations to receive clothing donations. Group members plan to walk around the campus area, giving items of clothing directly to homeless people. The leftovers will be taken to shelters for the homeless. -The Observer 
Philippino troops were placed on "red alert" in Manila on Monday as thousands of people prepared to march on the presidential palace to protest last week's killing by soldiers of 12 demonstrators, when about 10,000 peasants and supporters of their demands for land reform marched toward Mrs. Aquino's office. Officials of Bayan, the nation's largest leftist organization, told reporters they would meet with President Corazon Aquino before the march but vowed to go ahead with their plans regardless of the outcome of the talks. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Inflation and Foreign Adjustment," a Brown Bag Seminar, sponsored by The Kellogg Institute will be presented by Antonio Kandir, Kellogg Fellow and Researcher, Tuesday at 12:00 p.m. in Room 131 Decio Hall. -The Observer 
The Natural Family Planning Program of Saint Joseph County in cooperation with University Mini­stry will present "An Introduction To Family Planning" tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. The group also offers a clinic series for married or engaged couples who wish to learn natural family planning. For more information call 237-7401 or 277-8807. -The Observer 
Senior Formal Weekend is scheduled for March 27-29 at the Palmer House in Chicago. The Formal, a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's tradition, will involve over 11.3 of the Class of 1987. The weekend is highlighted by the formal cocktail party, dinner and dance held on March 28. -The Observer 

Weather 
To Bronco Fans who actually put money on their team over the Giants, take heart, you're not the only ones left out in the cold because it will be mostly sunny and cold today with highs from 15 to 20. Increasing clouds tonight with lows near 10. Cloudy and warmer tomorrow 


with highs from 25 to 30. 

The_ ObserYer 
Design Editor ... ... Melissa Warnke Design Assistant .... Chris Donnelly Typesetter ......... Mark McLaughlin ........ , ......................... Daniel Cahill News Editors ................. Jim Riley Copy Editor............... Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor ... .... 
.. ... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Rick Rietbrock 
Viewpoint Copy Editor................. .. 
..................................... Matt Guey 
Viewpoint Layout ....................... 
........ .......... .... .. .. .. Melinda Murphy 
Accent Copy Editor ......... .. 
.. ......... .... .. .. .. .. .. . Caroline Gillespie 
Accent Layout ... 
.. .. .... ... .... .. .. .. .. .Jane Anne Riedford Typist .. .. .. ....... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ...... Laurine Megna SMC Day Editor .......................... . 
....................... Theresa Harrington Ad Design .. .. ... Joan Wrappe ...................... Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ................. Mike Ury 
TIN: Obsernr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe ObHrver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Jndiana46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Auodaled Preu. All reproduction rights are rCHrved. 

Gipper, elusive quarterback key to Super Scandal Sunday 



The Iran-Contra arms scandal has been 
brewing for nearly two months and already the 
spectators are getting restless and bored. Pol­
lsters now estimate that only twenty percent of 
the American public is following the issue with 
daily interest, and this of course could lead to 
second rate commercials between newscasts. 
Some say that the scandal has become noth­ing more than a feeding frenzy for democratic media sharks, while others argue that a ple­thora of legal investigations threaten to prevent a timely and just resolution of the controversy. What is certain is that the fans want quick ac­tion and a big play. To see the Reagan admin­istration stalled over an objectionable call seems to many fans a waste of precious sports­spectating time. 
On the contrary, what we have seen until now has only been the first quarter of a very exciting Super Scandal Sunday. 
There seems to be some confusion as to the extent of the field and the number of players involved. This is because such multi-syllabic names as Khashoggi, Rafsangani, and Ghor­banifar do not quite fit across the back of a football jersey. Filthy accusations and a muddy field also make it difficult to see who's on which side. 
Not withstanding the dirty shortcomings of the remarkable tear-away jerseys which every­one deliberately wears, we must also notice that none of the players wears a proper helmet. Indeed, too many bear the classic symptoms of serious head injury. Even the unflappable Gip­per himself seems dazed and out of breath. 
By traditional standards the quarterback is the key man on the field. In this match-up such honor arguably falls to Oliver North, home­town boy and All-American hero. Even though Ollie's name was not quite so prominent early in the season it now seems that he was indeed responsible for many of the big plays. Long time fans must attribute to North's credit bold moves not only in Iran but also in Israel, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, and Honduras. His swift moves fooled not only the opponents but even his own teammates in Washington. Ollie carried the ball so fast and so well that no one claims even to have seen him. 
The embarrassing fumble of late November not only made the Reagan team forfeit the ball but now might mean serious peanlties as well. For reasons unknown, other than Ollie's sudden rashness, tl'le coach immediately removed his star quarterback from the game. What long­time fans now need to know is whether North has been this one-man miracle-machine or whe­ther others have also held the ball. Specifically, has North followed Reagan's commands or made up his own plays on the line? 
CBS news would love to use their magic chalk­
Anti-Violence Activist 
James Carroll 
Photography Manager 
Hll(¥WlitHHttr 1-U-"tl 

board to graphically illustrate the past few plays. Such mistakes are certainly embarrass­ing for the head coach. After all, how could the head coach not know what his team was doing? Or even worse, could the coach have actually ordered his team to deliberately violate the rules? In either event, the Super Scandal weekend is shaping up to be a major defeat for the Reagan team. 
In a game of football such mistakes are em­barrassing, but none-the-less understandable. Stupidity, cheating, and even deliberate un­sportsmanlike conduct will sooner or later be forgiven as merely part of the game. But foreign policy is obviously a wholly different and far more complicated matter. 
The football metaphor serves only to further the interest of those who would rather flip to a sports channel than watch the Washington ac­tion. And after all, the analogy is one much in 
. line with the Gipper's line of thought. The evil empire is clearly the opponent in the Reagan game, and one for whom the etiquette of sports­manship need not apply. 
In the past the President has worked his magic by convincing the audience that they were really watching a game. He has played the mythical Gipper role quite well. But now that his team has blundered he knows nothing of their shortcomings. Reagan fires the quar­terback and then passes the problem and blame on to others. Meanwhile he and his prostate are injured, sidelined, and silent. The remaining time will certainly not be boring. 
Center lor Teaching Non·VIolonco & NCTV lull·time stall. Lodg1ng & S400/mo. Research on aggression, publishing & lobbying against vioh:mce 
•n TV, film, war toys, sports, erotica, ale. Non·vaolenl films. Next to U Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217·3i14·1920. P.O. Bo• 2157, Champa1gn IL 61820 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
.,.:;~Godfathe:r·s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it  
Sunday& Mo  S..,"".......~  
I1 II  Medium original single ingredient pizza and cheese bread  ~=  I 11 1  
1  ·~·· ~.~.::.?. plus tax & deliv.~ ,..:::::.i-:. J  

~-----------------~--­
We Deliver to a Limited Area
Goclfatha-~


------Piz
~~ ~-52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN
~ 277-5880 



The Observer Monday, January 26, 1987-page 3 
Students join in Washington march 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 
A band of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's pro-lifers arrived home this weekend after braving snowstorms and police opposition to participate in the fourteenth annual march on Washington protesting the 1973 Supreme Court decision to legalize abortion. 
Theresa Harrington, vice president of the Right to Life Club at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, said four Saint Mary's students and six students from Notre Dame chartered a bus to Washington D.C. with pro-life activists from Valparaiso. Har­rington said the bus arrived in the nation's capital at 10:30 
a.m. last Thursday, Jan. 22, the fourteenth anniversary of the Supreme Court's controversial Roe vs. Wade decision. 
According to Harrington, the fifteen inches of snow that fell the night before they arrived closed the entire city and prompted organizers to "offi­cially cancel" the march. 
However, the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's group and an es­timated 5000 other protestors were not deterred by the wea­ther. "We said we came all this way and we're going to do it," said Harrington. 
Harrington said the protes­tors assembled in a park be­hind the White House to listen to a message from President Reagan and law-makers and then marched to the steps of the Supreme Court. 
There, Harrington said "police with billy clubs" were used to prevent a demonstra­tion by the marchers. Cathy Flynn, a protestor from Saint Mary's, said, "The cops were giving us a hard time, telling us it was illegal. No one left; we just laughed at the cops." 
However, H~rrington said she thought "at least 40 people did get arrested." 
According to Harrington, five fetuses were brought to the demonstration by "extreme factions." She also said every abortion clinic in Washington was shut down by sit-in protests. 
But Harrington said she does not approve of such tactics. "Personally I don't like those kinds of points. Generally, the demonstration was peaceful." 
Harrington described the pro-life cause as a "war on apathy.'' She said 5000 abor­tions are performed every day without mention from the media. "We're on the offensive and we will be there every year until the law is changed," she said. 
The Right to Life Club met with Rep. John Hiler, R-Ind., for 45 minutes before the march. Harrington said that Hiler said he was "99 percent behind us. I didn't ask what the other one percent was." Flynn said Hiler "was great, really supportive." 
Harrington said fewer Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents participated in the march this year than in previous years. Noting her club sent 35 students on its own bus last year, Harrington said the smaller number of students this year could be attributed to ''a young club that is rebuild­ing" from the loss of its senior officers who graduated last year. 
Harrington said snow prolonged the trip home to 20 hours. But Harrington and Flynn agreed the effort was worthwhile. "It was really worth it. I know everyone who went will want to go again next year," Harrington said. 

Anti-abortion demonstrators from around the country participate in a pro-life march on Washington last Thursday marking the 14th anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision to legalize abor­tion. See related story at left. 
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive ·4. 
..­

BRUNO'S 
. ~\ /It
\tt'~ ~
Follow 23 South to: 2610 PnlrteAft. 
Sou:tllllend 
288-3320 

Free Delivery to ND and SMC campuses m to 1 Opm monday through Saturday 
Special this month: 14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6.00 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 
IfTh~ Won't Tell You About It, Then You Rnow It Must Be Great. 
Purple Passion. Out of the bathtub, into the can, and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself. 
BottkdforWorldWickDistlllldl"rochKIS(om~ny By!kvmteConctptJ.SI~b. lllo 6)108 IS Proof 
was in bad taste whatsoever. All was meant to be taken in
Morrissey 
good fun. Someone who didn't continuedjrompage 1 understand the tradition and 
spirit of the event made an un­auditorium for one year, the educated judgment call." rector said. Bielsky said he agreed with 
Streit added although "the the penalties enacted against decisive factor was the poor the performers of the skits, condition in which the library however. "We were respon­auditorium was left, this also sible for cleaning up the reflects the quality of the auditorium, but we didn't. For skits." this we were justly punished." 
"The content of the skits are A resident assistant who was the subject of further discus­particularly offended by the sion internal to Morrissey," skits said, however, that the said Streit. content of the skits was never 
Ed Bielsky, who participated in question with regard to the in the off-campus skit, a parody penalties enacted by the ad­of a Christmas special which ministration. "From my won a skit competition later in knowledge, neither myself nor the program, said, "I per­any of the staff ever brought sonally didn't think the event forth (to the administration) 



ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Specia~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
Thcz C~ar 
oPEN SAB RECORD STORE SATURDAYS 
1-5 
. 
~[L[p)WJrffi ®U~~~w~ w 
RATE W©UJJ~ 1986 TOP TEN 
• 
VOTE FOR YOUR FAVORITE ALBUMS 

• 
SIGN UP FOR FREE ALBUMS 

•TELL 
US WHAT YOU WANT 


the content of the skit with respect to the sanctions. The only reason for the sanctions was the lack of responsibility in cleaning up the auditorium." 
However, the resident assis­tant added that although the skits were "not as vulgar as in the past," and that everyone had "taken them in the way they were intended, . . . some people might say they weren't as funny." 
Sense 
continuedfrom page 1 
worse. As I see it, we need to promote responsibility in regards to drinking. The prob­lem is not only drunk driving, but also injuries that occur when students are out of con­trol and walking the streets or wandering around their halls. The fact is that you are respon­sible for yourself when you're drunk, and you're responsible for your friends, for the people you're with," Nonnencamp said. 
Correction 
The headline of the Saint Mary's Clubhouse story on Friday's front page was in­correct. There have been no changes in Clubhouse rules since the accident involving Zahm Hall junior Michael Cogswell. 

Hours: 11 :30-5:00 Basement of Lafortune 

\-JEU.LOOKI N G fOR 1\ fE\.1 COOD \.-10l1.EN " ./  
iF YOU liP.!: IIITfRESTED IN SINGliNG WITH  
eJ ILS I'E'D:n:..~ C:l1£ N.I'FU5F s · THE WOMEN~ CJ-IOIR OF NOTRE DAME  
., CALL. 211--lh/f OR.  
CAl..l. ll!S DC:PAII.TI1ENT Of MUSIC  

The Observer Monday, January 26, 1987-page 4 
Awareness week hosted by minority concerns group 
By ANGELLE GOUDEAU 
News staff 
The Minority Concerns Committee has slated Janu­ary 26-30 as "Minorities Awareness Week." 
Instead of hosting a num­ber of events, the committee will sponsor a series of arti­cles in the Viewpoint section of the Observer, a lecture, and a meeting on the Black Women's coalition. 
"There are fewer events this year," said Lisa Boykin, Minority Concerns commis­sioner, "primarily because minority-related functions are usually not well­attended by either the white students or the minority stu­dents." The committee said it believes that utilizing the Observer Viewpoint section will be more conducive to its objectives than a number of expensive and ill-attended events. 
Boykin said the committee would also like to call atten­tion to the divestment issue. "We feel it is a moral out­rage that the premiere Cath­olic institution of the world would condone such an in­humane system as apar­theid by continuing to invest in South Africa," Boy kin said. 
On Wednesday, Jan. 28 at 7:00p.m. in the Memorial Li­brary, guest lecturer Jacob Carruthers, director of the Kemetic Institute in Chicago, will speak on "The Relationship between An­cient Egyptian Civilization and Greek Philosophy." In his research, Carruthers has attempted to prove that what has been recognized as Greek philosophy was in fact stolen and adapted from the Egyptians of black origin. 
On Friday at 7:00p.m. in the Black Cultural Arts council office, the recently organized Network of United Sisters (N.O.U.S) will ad­dress issues confronting black women at Notre Dame. The meeting is to be conducted by Rosemary Phelps of the University Counseling Center. 
The Minorities Concerns Committee said it equated student involvement with change. "Understanding is certainly the first step in remedying this current crisis," Boy kin. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Theologians discuss integrity, unity 
Special to The Observer 
Some fifty Catholic bishops, prominent theologians and academic administrators held a colloquium last week at Notre Dame to discuss their relation­ships and respective roles in the Church. 
Much of their discussion con­cerned the responsibilities of the three offices for the main­tenance of doctrinal integrity and Church unity, especially as these were affected by the teaching of theology at Catholic colleges and universities. 
According to Father David Burrell, professor of philoso­phy and of theology at Notre Dame and convenor of the group, "the entire meeting of­fered an opportunity for us to learn from one another about our diverse roles. 
"In that spirit, we were able to explore further ways of col­laborating as well as procedures for unscrambling situations of potential con­flict," he said. "The ability of a group like this to address such delicate issues candidly 
offers fresh hope for the Amer­
ican Church." 
Participants in the meeting 
included Father Theodore Res­
burgh, president of the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame; Father Ed­
ward Malloy, president-elect of 
Notre Dame; Father James 
Burtchaell, professor of theol­
ogy and former provost of 
Notre Dame; Father Richard 
McBrien, chairman of the de­
partment of theology at Notre 
Dame; and Father Richard 
McCormick, professor of theol­
ogy at Notre Dame. 
Also attending were Father 
Thomas Oddo, president of the 
University of Portland; Bishop 
William McManus, former bis­
hop of Fort Wayne-South Bend. Others who attended the meeting were Father John Alesandro, chancellor of the diocese of Rockville Center, New York; Father Raymond Baumhart, president of Loyola University of Chicago; Father Michael Buckley, professor of theology at Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley; Father Donald Buggert, professor of 
theology at Washington 
Theological Union; Father William Byron, president of Catholic University of America; Father John Cole­man, protessor of social ethics at Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley; Monsignor John Egan, director of the Office of Human Relations and Ecumenism for the Archdiocese of Chicago; Car­dinal John Dearden, retired archbishop of Detroit; Raymond Fitz, president of the University of Dayton; Sally Furay, provost of the Univer­sity of San Diego; Alice Gallin, executive director of the Asso­ciation of Catholic Colleges and Universities; Ann Gannon, pro­fessor of philosophy and former president of Mundelein College; Father Timothy Hea­ly, president of Georgetown University; and Father Bryan Hehir, general secretary for justice and peace at the United States Catholic Conference. 
.Also attending were Monika Hellwig, professor of theology at Georgetown University; Bis­hop Howard Hubbard of Al­bany. 

Career & Placement Senices 
Presents 
Brian Brennan 
V.P. &Director of Corporate Staffing 
Michigan National Corporation 
speaking on: 
Career Opportunities In an Era of Interstate Banking 
Wednesday, January 28, 1987 7 p.m. Notre Dame Room -Morris Inn ­
Reception to follow 
Michigan National Banks: 
Discover a new attitude in banking 
At Michigan National Banks, we have a new attitude toward banking. It's evident in our progressive philosophy, innovative products and services and dedication to new technology. It's also evident in our appreciation of the enthusiasm and fresh ideas of recent college graduates. . 
We know you're eager to start your career as fast as possible. That's why we get you involved in the 
Our encourage­ment of initiative, independence and individual achievement in our employees has helped to make us Michigan's leading 

business of banking from day one. And, the provider of financial services for Michigan National team provides plenty consumers and middle market companies. of support to help you get your If you have an MBA or four year degree in training where it counts...on accounting, finance, business, economics or liberal the job. arts, join a company that is challenging the traditional and establishing new attitudes in banking. 
We'll be conducting on campus interviews on Wednesday, February 18th. Please see the Office of Career Planning & Placement for additional information. Equal Opportunity 
Employer. 
Miehig8n Nalional Banks 
The smart money is with us 
-~ -~ 

View~_o_i_n_t_______M-ond-ay,J-anua-ry26_,198....
7-pa-geS 

Cultural diversity enhances all-white campus 
In 1987 it is no secret that the white college environment is one of enormous stress for many minority students. They worry that assimilating into the mainstream might mean surrendering their cultural identity. In the class­room, minority students lack role models because of the lack of minority faculty, and they are closed out of in­formal networks of communication that speed academic progress. Most of all they must constantly deal with suspicion by peers and faculty that they are somehow unworthy of being in the academic community. Too many col­leges do not provide programs for emo­tional and social support systems for healthy self-development. This lack of support has caused many minority stu­dents to perform below their abilities. 
Kenneth B. Durgans 
guest column 

Despite the many problems associr ated with being a minority student on a predominantly white campus, the numbers attending these institutions continues to increase. In light of the many recent studies showing that black colleges are probably more conducive to total intellectual and social growth, many questions have to be addressed. First, should black students be urged to consider predominantly black insti­tutions as an option; I say yes. The second, since the reality is more black students are choosing to attend predominantly white institutions, how do we create an environment more con­ducive to success? 
First let us examine the problem by looking at the word "minority." It means a racial religious, political or other group regarded as different from the larger group of which it is a part (American Heritage Dictionary). Many times this word is used to sepa­rate people rather than unify. In other words to be a minority implies the exis­tence of a dominant group. This group usually overlooks or excludes the minority, while the minority desperately tries to assert recognition. This usually causes conflict. The majority group often takes the position of cultural superiority. They insist that the minority people's diverse cultures be divested so that those people can be assimilated into one big Euro­American culture. Such thesis is clearly prejudice or racism. Racists view cultural diversity as a threat, thus, something that cannot be tolerated. 
Our college and environment can only be improved when the majority/ dominant culture accepts the thesis that cultural diversity is alright. When students whether :Black, Chinese, Mexican or whatever choose to hang together it may be cultural. That these and other statements are not necessar­ily anti-white or anti-anything. If cul­tural differences are accepted and recognized as indispensable to a community, then the campus can expe­rience cultural harmony. This may sound idealistic but, like another fa­mous American whose birthday we just celebrated, I chose to be a Dreamer. 


The role of a counselor is difficult to duplicate 
This article is the first in a series to be written by staff members of the Uni­versity Counseling Center (UCC). The topics we'll be addressing will be Sexual Choices, Careers, Alcohol, and Constructive Caring. This first article is really an introduction to counseling in general and the U.C.C. in particular. 
Patrick Utz 
guest column 

As much as we hate to admit it to ourselves, there are times when all of us get overwhelmed by the stresses we encounter in life. This can be especially true during the colle"ge years when we begin to confront so many new issues of adulthood. Most of us are hesitant to reach out for help unless things get to a crisis stage because we feel we "should" be strong enough to handle our own problems. This attitude contri­butes to a kind of stigma that has 
Doonesbury 
developed around going to the U.C.C. 
Taking the first step in making an appointment to see a counselor is not easy and people think of lots of reasons not to do it. Sometimes we may turn to a friend for help in sorting out our ques­tions or problems, but that may not al­ways be appropriate. The relationship a client develops with a counselor is a very special one that is hard to dupli­cate with a friend. Whether you see a counselor only one time or once a week for several weeks, he or she is inter­ested in only you during that time to­gether. In addition to helping you focus your energies in resolving your issues, a counselor is objective and your ses­sions are strictly confidential, which may not always be true with a friend. 
The staff at the U.C.C. are profes­sionals trained to work with university students. We deal with a wide range of concerns from time management, or career counseling, or overcoming shy­ness, or improving one's self-concept and ability to make friends, to more serious issues such as the loss of a sig­nificant person in one's life, eating problems, or depression. We see clients either in a one-to-one session or in a group session depending on the nature of the student's concerns. While stu­dents often feel they want individual counseling, there are many times when a group is much more beneficial to them. Some people come to the U.C.C. just for the groups we offer and we're expanding those offerings all the time. This semester we have the following groups available: Alcohol & Drug Abuse Prevention Training (ADAPT) ; Coed Weight Group; Adult Children of Alcoholic Parents (CAP); Relationship Group; Eating Disorders Group; Per­sonal Growth Group. 
Another word needs to be said about confidentiality. Even though the U.C.C. is part of the University of Notre Dame, we adhere to Indiana state law and the American Psychological Association's 
Garry Trudeau 
OKAY, HOW A801/T 
IT'$ NOTAS PRACTICAL. RJGHT. I IA/ASN'rAc:rua.u:t
THEN WHY
QUIT MY JOB? 

/J/OI<KJNG ATHOME, 
c'MON, !?.tCK., YOIJRE THe As A' INVOLVW, JOAN/e..
f)()N'TYOU
CMoN, JlYWte., 

THEN~ TH/5/5/M­
aveIAIHO/J//?D'$ ABafT PETACifW ITlf!OULPN'r HA~
00/F

POJ<TANT, RIO<..
6CT513RJOU5. 

7HE NEJ.V EJf?EfJ) OF !?BV1?JER 8lZNPf?lll'i55;JtJNAIL..l 
rn.uurrrr.:n ~~ ·
I \ 
1
'\ 

ethics guidelines in keeping students' files stri~tly confidential. This means that you don't need to worry about your visit to the U.C.C. going on your school record. Except in rare instances where there is a danger of personal harm to oneself or others, no one ever knows you have even come in, unless you tell them. 
Chances are that when you're looking back on your college years, a few years from now, you won't even remember some of the intense concerns and crises you've lived through. Memory has a unique way of coloring our past in bright or neutral shades rather than in the more somber colors which would reflect some of our pain. For a growing number of students those positive memories will include the rewarding experience of working with a skilled and helpful counselor. 
Dr. Patrick Utz is the director of the University Counseling Center. 
Quote of the day 

"I can't change the world, but I can change the world in me­if I rejoice." 
U2 1980 "Rejoice" 

General Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 
Accent 
Monday, January 26, 1987-page 6 

Suffering from winter 
Before and after in flab? this week's soaps 
. 

Here's your answer 
ALL MY CHILDREN: After El­
COLLEEN CLYNES features writer 

S
ound mind, sound body. This goal of most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students is also the motto of a prominent South Bend athletic club. Lo­cated on 53666 N. Ironwood, American South Bend Turner's has been building bodies and minds since 1861 and continues to do so as a sports innovator in the state of Indiana. By the end of this week, the club will com­plete Its half-million dollar facility -the rlrst Indoor soccer rleld in the state. 

Timothy Grauel, manager of American South Bend Turner's, and Steven Smith discuss 
place. Hope learned Victor 
construction plans for the Indoor soccer field. 
and Bo planned to hire a top 
len stood him up, Ross asked Natalie out and told her he 
their $25 league fee and the club rant as well as a picnic and bar found her exciting. Erica went will organize the team for them. area. Various Notre Dame hall to see the new owner of her 
"We are always looking for new dances have been held there. 
New York apartment. Travis ways to expand and improve," Many other sports leagues are Montgomery. Angie was sure said Tim Grauel, manager of available including men's and that Jesse was the father of 
American South Bend Turner's. children's basketball, bowling Yvonne's baby. Coming:"We are living in one of the larg­for children, adults, and couples, Travis makes Erica a proposi­est soccer markets in the country and the newly-developed soccer tion she rlnds unbelievable. 
and had no proper facility until league. Gymnastics is offered for ANOTHER WORLD: Chad 
now. Soccer Is a sport that the ages 4 to adult. 
probed M.J. about the policewhole family can get involved in, While all of the club's activities investigation of the hooker without spending an arm or a do not require full club member­ring. Tony, Nancy's new love, leg. This nts right in with our ship, certain activities do. Yearly turned out to be a reporterclub's philosophy." membership is one flat fee for checking out the murder of "There already has been a one family member or all; the fee prostitutes. Rachel told Mac good response from students, is $85.50. Any interested parties she was through with Mitch, Including some women from can call 277-085-1 or stop by the but Mac turned her down 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But club for more information. 
when she asked him to make love to her. Coming: M.J. worries that Chad might reveal her past. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Craig was torn by his lingering feelings for Shannon and his growing awareness of Iva's importance to him. Earl had another surprise for Lisa. Kim fretted that rlnding the answer to the Sabrina "mystery" might cause more heartache than anyone expected. Com­ing: Bob is forced into a deci­sion. 
CAPITOL: Clarissa struggled to rlnd some meaning in Mark's motive,s. Information about Carla's murder added to Clarissa's confusion. Julie dropped another bombshell about Tyler. Myrna fretted about Sam's actions. Coming: Dan­ger stalks Clarissa. 
DALLAS: Bobby and Pam continued to dispute the way she was raising Christopher. Ray's behavior took a drastic turn when he realized he might never get Donna back. Sue Ellen was unaware of her new part in Calhoun's plans. Coming:J.R. could be making a fatal mistake. 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Patch was upset to rlnd Adrienne waiting for him at Kayla's 
The three-month long project will produce a 180 by 84 foot enclosed rleld of synthetic turf similar to Astroturf, surrounded by kicker boards and featuring plexlglass enclosed spectator and lounge areas. Completely rlnanced by the club Itself, the new soccer facility Is equipped with a full pro shop, reading room and concession stand along with ofrlce areas and more racquetball facilities for the club. 
Numerous soccer leagues. have been formed to utilize the new indoor rleld. So far, 87 teams have joined, but 53 more spots are available for a total of 140 participating teams. 
Divisions range from the 4-5­year-old age group tojunior high and high school teams to the col­lege and adult divisions. Inter­ested Individuals or teams can sign up dally from 3-5 p.m. A $50 deposit Is required for each new team to enter. 
Individuals wishing to join can register at the above times with we'd like to see more students get involved. The Notre Dame in­tramural program is strong. but with little emphasis on soccer. Maybe we could help change all that." Grauel said. 
American South Bend Turner's began I 25 years ago as a predominantly German social club and gradually evolved into an athletic club as well, with a broad membership. The club was originally located in down­town South Bend and moved to Ironwood in 1974. 
The club's facilities cover 13 acres, 35,000 feet of which are enclosed under roof. The many sports facilities include a full gymnasium and gymnastics in­struction, basketball, volleyball, racquetball, handball and tennis courts, aerobics areas, two softball diamonds, saunas and 
12 bowling lanes as well as the new Indoor soccer rleld. 
American South Bend Turner's also offers a full-service restau-
The club's hours are Monday­Saturday from 8 a.m. to mid­night and Sunday from 12:30 to 
8:30 p.m., although hours are subject to change with the addi­tion of the new soccer facility. 
"We are not the Y which is strictly athletic or the Elks which is mainly social, but an agreeable cross between the two. We com­bine physical and social aspects. and cater to all ages and all sexes. We think student involve­ment will be an asset to the club. A number of Notre Dame teams have shown an interest in the new indoor soccer rleld as well as our other facilities. Student participation is always wel­come," said Grauel. 
And so American South Bend Turner's upholds its more than century old traditions and con­tinues to innovate for the future. It Is their motto that remains forever unchanged: "Sound mind, sound body." There is no substitute. 
lawyer to defend Kim. Mike gave Robin an engagement ring. Melissa told Lars she wasn't ready to go to bed with him yet. Coming: Shane believes Emma may have left a clue about Andrew in spite of herself. 
FALCON CREST: Angela was concerned about Peter's lin­gering preoccupation over Skyler. Lance raised new questions after his comments about Melissa's mental state. Chase faced having to rlnalize his deal with Richard against his better judgment. Coming: Lance wins an ally. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Blood-stained efrlgies ofTerry and Patrick were discovered in the attic in the brownstone. Lucy was suspected of placing them there. Sean and Tiffany made love. Camellia started to recall what happened four years earlier, and the secret of L'Orlean began to unravel. 
Coming: Tania and Tony begin having disputes over her career. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Alex's at­tempt to learn more about Alan and India's plans led her to a new puzzle. Jessie and Simon worried about a new threat to their happiness. Josh fretted that the danger to him and to Reva was not yet resolved. Coming: Alex realizes she may have to have a showdown with Alan. 
KNOTS LANDING: Anne re­luctantly agreed to rly to Knots Landing with Mack to meet her daughter and Mack's wife. Karen prepared Paige to mistrust Anne. Paige hid out in Peter's apartment rather than meet her mother. Com­Ing: Ben realizes he's in trou­ble because of Jean's insis­tence that he tap into Greg's computer. 
LOVING: Mlck assured Trisha that although she did marry him the night before Ava went to Tony's room during a raging storm. Al­though he was interested, he told her it wasn't the time or place to make love yet. After hearing someone had been checking on the missing Al­den heir, Gwyneth told Harry she fears Clay may be alive and may want to kill her. Com­ing: Steve decides to do something about Trisha and Nick. 
ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Max Hol­den waited for Maria to return to her hotel suite. Kevin was found and returned to Vickie and Clint. Vickie continued to dodge Clint's attempts to rec­oncile. Jamie turned up with Keith's wallet in his pocket. Cassie returned home a tear­ful Dorian. Coming: Maria worries that Max might be diverted by Tina. 
RYAN'S HOPE: Melinda and Pat were married. Max was up­set to see Siobhan with Eric. Dakota told Delia to stop in­terfering in Roger's life. Maggie tried to rlnd a way to tell Roger she's pregnant. Jackie, unaware that Eric is Joe, told him she knew him from somewhere. Coming: Max decides to learn more about Siobhan's activities when he's not with her. 
SANTA BARBARA: Gus was convicted of robbing the res­taurant. The real culprit took Lionel, Alice and Caroline hostage. Gus escaped and tried to rescue them. Cruz shot the kidnapper. Coming: Kelly faces a new disaster. 
THE YOUNG &: THE REST­LESS: Nina's relief at escaping from Rose and Vince was soon tempered by a new realization of danger. Kay worried that she might never regain Philip's trust. Steven felt he might be breaking through into Ashley's confused mind. John's warm feelings for Ellen grew as he watched her strong influence over Jack. Coming: Cricket's hunch pays off. 
McNaught Syndicate, 1987 

----~ -------------------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, January 26, 1987 -page 7 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC varsity softball team will have a meeting for all those interested in playing softball tonight at 6:30 at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
ND football managers will have an organizational meeting for all potential freshmen managers Wednesday, Jan. 28 at 7:30p.m. in the ACC football auditorium. Any interested freshmen are invited to attend. For more in­formation call 239-6482. -The Observer 
The ND varsity field hockey team will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing field hockey tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. at the football auditorium. -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb. 9-15 at Stepan Fields. Sign-ups begin today and run through Feb. 4. from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. -The Observer 
Shoryn-Ryu karate classes begin tonight from 7 to 8:30 in the boxing room of the ACC. Classes will meet every Monday and Wednesday at this same time and place. All interested students are welcome. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will face Cavanaugh-Howard tonight at 11:30 at the ACC. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Giants 

continuedfrom page 12 
yard line the first three times 
we touched the ball. We felt 
going in we couldn't get in a 
scoring contest with them." 
Most of Simms' handiwork 
came after a first half in which 
Denver outplayed the Giants, 
who were favored by 10 points, 
going off with a 10-9 lead that 
easily could have been 20-7 or 
20-9. Early in the second quar­
ter, New York held Denver 
without a point after the 
Broncos had a first-and-goal 
from their 1 and Rich Karlis 
missed field goals from 23 and 
34 yards for Denver, one after 
that goal-line stand. 

So dominant was Elway in 
the second period that he ac­
counted for 200 yards on his 
own -187 passing and 13 rush­
ing. That was 13 yards more 
than Denver's total offense 
when sacks are figured in. 
Then came the third quarter, 
in which the Giants outgained 
the Broncos by 163 yards to 2, 
scoring 17 points. From the 
time the Broncos led 10-9 until 
the Giants led 33-10, Denver 
was held without a first down, 
going out 1-2-3-punt on two oc­
casions and Elway throwing an 
interception on the other. 
After Simms' third-quarter 
TD pass to Bavaro, Denver, 
which went the entire third 
quarter without calling a run­
ning play, went 1-2-3-punt. The 
punt was returned 25 yards by 
Phil McConkey to the Denver 36. Eight plays later, Raul Al­legre's 21-yard field goal made it 19-10. 
Again Denver went 1-2-3­punt, and again New York scored, going 68 yards in four plays with Joe Morris running over from 1 yard out following a 44-yard flea-flicker pass from Simms to McConkey. 
Elvis Patterson intercepted an Elway pass the next time, setting up a 6-yard scoring pass from Simms to McConkey. The ball bounced off tight end Mark Bavaro's hands and helmet, right into the hands of McConkey, who did a victory dance and ran off the field with the ball. 
This was the fifth time in six years that an NFC team has won the Super Bowl. The last AFC team was the Los Angeles Raiders in 1984. The Giants won their three postseason games by a total score of 105-23, beating San Francisco 49-3 and Washington 17-0 en route to their first NFL title since 1956. 
From then on it was garbage time. Ottis Anderson had a 1­yard TD run for New York. Karlis had a 29-yard field goal for Denver, and Elway threw 46-yards to Vance Johnson for a consolation TD late in the game. 
Denver took a 3-0 lead on the 
first possession of the game on 
Karlis' 48-yard field goal. 
Elway was the prime mover on the drive, scrambling 10 yards for a first down on the first play, then hitting Mark Jackson for 24 yards on a third­and-7 from his own 39. 
But the Giants came right back, with a 78-yard, 9-play drive on which Simms went 6­for-6 for 69 yards. It culminated with his 6-yard toss to Zeke Mowatt with 5:27 left in the quarter. 
Then it was Denver's turn. 
The Broncos moved 58 yards in six plays to set up Elway's 4-yard TD run on a quarterback draw with 2:06 left in the quar­ter. It was the first touchdown allowed by the Giants in the postseason and followed a double penalty on New York­a late hit by Harry Carson and an unsportsmanlike conduct call on Lawrence Taylor that put the ball at the 6. 
The first quarter ended with the two quarterbacks a com­bined 13 for 13. Elway was 6­for-6 for 68 yards and Simms 7-for-7 for 76 yards. 
The game may have turned on the next series. 
Denver, sparked by Elway's 54-yard completion to Johnson, drove 79 yards on its next pos­session to the Giants 1. But Taylor dumped Elway for a 1­yard loss on first down. Gerald Willhite was stopped for no gain, and Carson and Carl Banks dumped Winder for a 3­yard loss on third down. 
Then Karlis' 24-yard field goal attempt went wide right. 
The New York defense 
asserted itself again on the next 
series, when Martin, who had 
returned an Elway pass for a 
touchdown in their first 
meeting, dumped the Denver 
quarterback in the end zone for 
a safety. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
LOST: completed cross-stitch needle SAVE $$$!! Buy your class books at Thank you St. Jude
ROOMMATE WANTED to share two

work of a HUMMEL pattern UTILE PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­
bdrm. apt., Turtle Cr. 200-tno. eelec., call 

NOTICES GABRIEL ---CALL Brother John -62B4 FOR SALE tion: BOB Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. TOASTMASTERS
Don, 272-3779 

OPEN 7 days a week, 10-530 ph. 233-TOASTMASTERS LOST B-BALL TIX AT W.VIRGINIA 2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off Toastmasters wfll meet Wednesday WORDPROCESSING GAME IFFOUNDCALLSCOTI AT1599 every order of $50 or morel Jan 28 at 7pm In the Little Theatre tn•
FOR SALE--Juki 6100 Daisywheel Printer--$150. Was $400 new. 234-7362
277-B131 CAN IDENTIFY SECTION WOULD HAP­La Fortune. NEW MEMBERS ARE PILY PAY A REWARD!!!! WANTED For the ultimate in sound, music, person· WELCOME I 
Francis 
ality, and fun call... ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED the prolessional disc jockey PRAY TO ST. JUDE FOR HE, LIKE OUR 
"Anne-Marie you're a Lush" LOST CLASS RING 'BS VW Cabriolet • Excellent Condition • 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA

FAP B7 service. We're NO's bestl Ask for Brian LORD, WILL ALWAYS BE THERE IN
"No. I'm Lushious" 21 ,000 Miles • Still Under Warranty • Ken· 
Project Manager needed

Call Fred 2BB-2821 1645. TIME OF NEED.
wood Stereo • A-C • Priced Below Book Now Everyone knows! REWARD 
FREE vacation plus $$$ 

·Call 277-4361
1-B00-237-2061 GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY. Are you in a campus band? Would you Gain EXPERIENCE and EARN MONEY like some FREE publicity? Contact Mary

SNOW TIRES: two, brand-new, Fire­LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be­while working on Fortune 500 Compan­at either 239-5313 or 272-3B33 beforeEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
stone, mounted, 7.35-15, replaces 6.50­tween PW & O'Shag 9:00·10:00 Please ies' Marketing Programs on campus! Friday.
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Summer job interviews·Average earn· 
15 (fits VW bug, etc.), call Matt at 4415 be kind and contact me if you are the Flexible hours each week. Call 1-B00­ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience in 
TYPING AVAILABLE advertising, sales, and public relations 
one who found it x-273B or bring it by 'B1 FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 4-DR, V­821-1540. Happy 22nd, Andyllll Have a WILD last
2B7·40B2 selling yellow page advertising for the
344 PW. Reward is offered. semester, from someone lost in the
B, LOADED. 232-9533 EVENINGS
Notre Dame campus telephone direc· THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY trees!!!

ONLY. BUY THIS CAR, I'LL TELL YOU LOST at ND Apt party, one navy CB down HOW TO MAKE MONEY. FAVORS GRANTED!
tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. 

SUMMER IN EUROPE $279 Complete training program in North
jacket with light blue stripe. Call Mark at TOASTMASTERS
Lowest Scheduled Fares to all ol Europe Carolina. (Expenses paid) Looking for
2BB-954B or drop at 72B PE HUMAN LEAGUE!! TOASTMASTERS
from Chicago. Call 1(BOO) 325-2222. enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for T oastmaaters will meet Wed Jan 28 atchallenging, well-paying summer job.
HAVE YOU FOUND MY KEYS? I TICKETS HUMAN LEAGUE!!! 7pm In the Little Theatre In LaFortune. 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at Sign up for interviews with University
HAVENT! PLESE CALL ME IF YOU NEW MEMBERS ARE INVITED TO AT­
PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca­Directories at Career & Placement Ser·
HAVEl IT'S A BRASS KEY CHAIN THAT HUMAN LEAGUE IS COMINGI!I TEND!
NEED FOUR MARQUETIE TIX!!CALL LOOKS LIKE A GOLD INGOT. MY
tion: BOB Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. vices by Jan. 30. 
ANN OR BRIDGET AT 2B4-4414 NAME IS KYLE. MY NUMBER IS 1223. HERE? Not! BRIAN DOUGLAS O'FALLON!
OPEN 7 days a week 10-530. ph. 233­
2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off SUMMER JOBS -Large resort on east
CALL ME ANYTIME!(IF YOU FOUND THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF IN-
every order of $50 or more! entrance to Glacier National Park, Mon­
MY KEYS) THANKS MUCHAS. Riviera Night Club, Chicago Sunday, GREDIENTS.
Need Tickets Desperately to both the
tana looking for students interested in February 15 $18 cash--tix and bus$ in THERE'S FLOUR, SUGAR, YOU

North Carolina and Duke basketball
All students are invited to attend an ex­summer employment for the following
FOUND: Bookstore bag of new books games. Either student or GA's. Call SAB office by Monday, Jan. 26!!! COULD EVEN THROW IN ANOTHER from O'Shag. Call Lost & Found office in EGG. THEN THERE'S VANILLA, THE
ercise conditioning program to be held positions: Waitrons, bartenders, kitchen 
Eric at 272-9123.
in the north dome of the A.C.C. The ses­help, cooks, retail clerks, maids, cas­
LaFortune. MECNOISE CONCERT MOST POTENT OF INGREDIENTS. In
sions which will be progressive will run hiers, cocktail waitrons, desk clerks, of-Sat., Jan. 31 my famiy I was taught to RESPECT vanil­
WANTED: 4 GA'S FOR MARQUETIE Found-a DETEX outside of Senior Bar 8 p.m. la. BUT COLLEEN DOES NOT
from Feb. 2-Mar. 11 on Mon.. Tues.. 1ice personnel and maintenance. Monthly 
GAME JAN 2B CALL TIM 3240 OR 3249.
Thurs., and Fri. afternoons from 5:00-salary including room and board. Inter­
weekend of Jan. 16. II it could be yours, $5 at the door RESPECT VANILLA. SHE TREATS IT 
6:00 p.m. views will be held on campus in mid·
call John at 1706. Stepan Center LIKE ANY OTHER DRY GOOD. I said
HELPII
February. Write for application to our win­spans. by SAB add flour. But no, she said, "Let's add

Mom and Dad are coming! FOUND: Sum of money found on South DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's more vanilla." WE KNOW OTHERWISE ter address: St. Mary RB, Inc., PO Box 
180B, Sun Valley, ID 83353.

Quad. Call 2B3-2344. YOU WOULD HAVE MADE 
Will pay BIG$$ Call Kerstin 4036 
BRIAN TRACEY IS 22 TODAY! TERRIFIC COOKIES BRIAN!
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST TAN WALLET. PLEASE FIND. It's about time you caught up, kid! Have REWARD IF RETURNED. CALL 2017 
Students needed to help save lives. a great one. Love, Mary
NEED DUKE GA'S $$$$ CALL STEVE
Watch T.V. and earn extra money . New ..................................... 
Ever heard of NATURAL FAMILY PLAN­STYLE HAT. PLEASE CALL 4606. LOST: gold chain with pearl charm call donors or former donors who haven't Seniors -1 need your extra graduation NING?This alternative to artificial contra­Elise at x2769 NEED UNC TICKETS ception is Safe,Healthy,EFFE'"TIVE,and 
LOST: BROWN AND TAN RUSSIAN 21BO 
donated plasma in the last 30 days will tickelsl! Do you need extra cash for be paid $11.00 following initial or return spring break? Give me a call and a deal
LOST: Black wallet at Theodore's Satur­CALL NANCY 277-5626 Morally AcceptableiLearn more Mon Jan 
FOUND -Brown thick down jacket. on the donation. Bring this ad to: American can be worked out! I'm desperate ill Tom 26 at 7:30pm at Hayes-Healy Aud.
day night. Please call Terry at x1137. 
Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 2B3-1251
Weds Senior Chicago trip bus that came Married and engaged coup les register back to the Main Circle. Possibly belongs "URGENT" Need 4 DEPAUL tixs FAST for class Jan 2B&Feb 4 on campus.Call 
Thank you. 
5 blocks west of Burger King on US 2QI Lincolnway West. Phone 234-6010.

to "Chip." Call Carie at 2B55. 237-7401 or 277BB07 Open Tues., Wed .. Fri., and Sat.
LOST: Grey knapsack, with books, -Call Jackie x26B3 
Still need Notre Dame Boxer Shorts? The -from South Dining Hall, 1119. To anyone MARQUETIE: 2 or 4 GAs needed Call Dancin' Irish will be selling them at 727 Athletic, well groomed, morally secured who has found this or to the thief that notebooks, and envelopes to be mailed 
JULIE 3602 or 4144 PE until supply is gone lor $6 male; Looking for sincere friendship, look it: please return to the Lost & Found Wanted students with medical back­.................................... Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165 andtlr call Eric at 272-9123. Especially ground who are avaliable to work 9-5 NEED GAs for N. Carolina (4) Elisa 2B4-ANYONE TAPE THE LAST FEW lbs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from needed are the contents in the manilla shift on Tues., Wed., Fri., or Sat. Starting 5013 MINUTES OF THE HISTORICAL you. All responses are welcomed and
FOR RENT 
envelopes and in the notebooks. pay 4.25 per hour. II interested bring USOND GAME ON 1112&86?? WE answered. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, resume to American Plasma, 515 Lin­I NEED ONE GA TO THE NC GAME NEED IT! PLEASE CALL MICHELLE B1B09B1, Box-149, Attica, NY 14011 LOST -HELP! I NEED MY GLASSES CALL CALL ROB x1756
Two room utilities paid private entrance colnway West. South Bend. 234-601 0' 2B4-5096 
one person 2BB-0955-277-1254 MAUREEN ERNY'S BIRTHDAY IS-PLASTIC LENS, WIRE, AERONAUTI­
SPEND SPRING AND SUMMER 19B7 SENIORS!!! SENIORS!!! SENIORS!!! ONLY 4 DAYS AWAY! I SURE HOPE LOST ON Vl7. IF FOUND, CALL MIKE Have house suitable for 5 students, near IN SUNNY SPAIN! DO YOU WANT TO BE A STAR IN THE YOU WILL BE READY TO CELEBRATE 4640. 
CAL SHAPE, IN HARD PLASTIC CASE 
Memorial Hospital. Nice neighbor. For in­Quality Instruction at Economy Prices: SENIOR CLASS VIDEO??? GET A MO! NO MORE STUDYING FOR YOU,
PERSONALS
fo, call 232-4412. Business Administration, Hispanic GROUP OF FRIENDS TOGETHER AND THOSE COMPS ARE GETitNG YOU I left the Arthur Andersen dinner at 
Studies, Arts and Sciences. Contact: Ad­LIP SYNC A SONG. CALL MICHELLE DOWN I Barclay's (VI9) with the wrong London Part-time mktg. pas. on campus. Poten­..
missions, St. Louis, MO 63103 Toll-free AT 284-5096 FOR MORE INFO! Fog trench coat. II you have the same Large duplex being used as one house. tel.: (BOO) 625-6666 tial to make $&11r. Call Cindy at 1-B00-Happy Birthday Tom Shallow. Happy 
problem, call Mike x1657. 
LOST: Small Gold Chain. Last seen at the Rock on Tuesday night(WO) Please call Kevin -3540 
Two kitchens, three baths. Completely furnished including washer and dryer. Complete burglar and fire alarm system. Will accommodate eight. Call 234-9364 after five. 
WANTED:SOMEONE NAMED TASHA TO PROVIDE COMPANIONSHIP. IN­QUIRE AT 2022 

592-2121. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB-Classes will resume Tuesday 1127 at 6:30p.m. in Stepan Center. All are invited to attend. Classes for beginning and intermediate levels will be offered. 
Birthday Tom Shallow.· 
Kathleen Walsh, you are the best I have ever had. I have lusted after you for years. You are too incredible for words. 
-


~ 


John Elway passed for 304 yards yesterday, but his Broncos still fell to the Giants, 39-20. See related story at right. 
Shot 
continuedfrom page 12 
game. Rivers scored 15 of his team-high 20 points in the second half and came up with some key steals and loose balls early in the half to help the Irish to their lead. And until the last four minutes, his ballhan­dling keyed the Irish against the continual UCLA press. But in the end, Rivers finished with 10 turnovers. 
"I thought for 36 minutes, we played very, very well," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "In the last four minutes, we didn't execute the press. I thought we were in great shape when we were up by 11, but when I started to see the calls going their way, I got worried. It was a tough loss, but we'll be back. 

" "This is one of the best UCLA team:> I've seen in a while as far as the way they go after it. They're the best I've seen in five or six years." 
The Irish had led since the 

16: 37 mark of the opening half. They had built the lead by resorting to a tactic that has worked for them before -a deliberate tempo to slow down a faster team like the Bruins. Irish shooting, which had been ice cold of late, was warmed by the Southern California sun. The Irish shot 53.7 percent (22­of-41 shooting) for the game, with many of their buckets coming with time running down on the shot clock. 
"Their offense didn't really frustrate us-it put us to sleep," said Miller. "We like to run like the Lakers, but it just seemed like Rivers would come across half -court, pass the ball around for 30 or 40 seconds and then hit a shot. But the press helped change the tempo and got us into our game." 
And it was the Bruin press which keyed the comeback, as they changed from a 2-2-1 to 1­2-1-1 to create more turnovers which came in bundles. Over the final3:08, UCLA outscored Notre Dame 17-2 as the Irish had problems getting the ball upcourt, commiting six turn­overs with the game on the line which led to easy UCLA scores. 
In the end, the Irish could only look on, stunned, as the
.. 
Pauley Pavilion crowd cele­brated The Shot, which Miller knew he had all the way. 
IRISH ITEMS -Following the victory, Hazzard said that the UCLA-Notre Dame series is very good for college basket­ball and a series that would go on for years and years. Last year after Notre DarnEr defeated UCLA, 74-64, Hazzard said he didn't know if he wanted to play Notre Dame again . 
Saturday's Results UCLA 63, Notre Dame 59 Notre Dame (59) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Royal  38  3-5  8-8  6  4  14  
Stevenson  38  3-7  0-0  5  3  6  
Voce  34  3-5  0-0  13  5  6  
Hicks  36  5-8  1-1  3  3  11  
Rivers  36  7-12  6-8  3  5  20  
J. Jackson  8  1-2  0-0  0  1  2  

Paddock 50-00-0120 Connor 3 0-1 0-0 2 0 0 Fredrick 10-0 0-0000 Smith 1 0-1 0-1 0 0 0 200 22-41 15-18 33 23 57 
FG Pet. -.537. FT Pet. -.833. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -22. Assists -11 (Rivers 7). Technicals -none. 
UCLA (63) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Miller 40 10-19 4-5 5 2 26 Rochelin 1 0 0-0 2-2 0 2 2 Haley 14 1-3 0-0 4 0 2 Immel 23 1-4 2-2 2 2 5 Richardson 37 6-11 1-4 2 4 13 Wilson 18 1-3 0-0 2 1 2 Foster 16 0-2 2-2 2 0 2 Hatcher 18 2-7 0-1 0 3 4 Walker 10 0-1 1-3 1 1 1 Jackson 12 2-5 2-4 4 2 6 Palmer 20-00-0010 200 23-55 14-23 22 18 60 
FG Pet. -.418. FT Pet. -.609. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -12. Assists -1 0 (Miller 3). 3-point goals -Miller 2, Immel. Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 30, UCLA 28. Of­ficials-Range, McJunkin, Reischling (all Pac­10). A-12,552. 

Karlis' missed field goals typical of missed opportunities for Denver 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif.-John El­way did everything but kick for the Denver Broncos in yester­day's Super Bowl. 
They might wish he had done that, too. 
Elway's running and passing had staked the Broncos to a 10-7 first-quarter lead, but two missed field goal attempts by Rich Karlis in the second quar­ter wrecked Denver's momen­tum. The New York Giants pushed across 30 points in the last half to rout the Broncos 39­20. 
Karlis kicked a 48-yard field goal on the opening series of the game, tying a Super Bowl record for the longest three­pointer. It also was Karlis' lOth straight field goal, including one in overtime in the AFC championship game against Cleveland that sent the Broncos into the Super Bowl. 
But on subsequent attempts of 23 and 34 yards against the Giants, he was wide right, leaving Denver with a slim 10-9 halftime edge and opening the door for New York's second­half outburst. 
Karlis, with his head in his hands and choking back tears in the locker room, said, "I just pushed them. I blocked them off to the right. I didn't get my hips through. It's like when you play golf and you don't get through the ball and you put it into the woods on the right." 
Karlis said the snap and hold were good on both aborted at­tempts. 
"I just feel like I let everyone down," he said. "I think I really hurt us. I pride myself on making big kicks, and those were big kicks. 
"I hit the 48-yarder as good as I've hit a ball. We didn't want to waste many opportuni­ties today, but I did. I don't think it was pressure but maybe I was a little anxious." 
The Broncos actually blew a prime touchdown opportunity preceding Karlis' first miss. Elway's 54-yard pass to Vance Johnson helped move the Broncos to the Giants' one. But three running plays lost five yards, and Karlis' 23-yarder sailed wide. 
Denver got to the Giants' 16 on a subsequent march before the half, but after two incom­plete passes, Karlis missed again just outside the upright. 
"I thought we should have scored about 10 more points in the first half," Denver Coach Reeves said. "We knew going into the game that if we didn't take advantage of every oppor­tunity we had, we would be in tough shape. We missed a couple of field goals and got first and goal at the 1 and didn't score." 
Denver linebacker Tom Jack­son, playing in his second Super Bowl for the Broncos, said Karlis "didn't lose the game for 
us. If not for Rich, we wouldn't 
even be here." 
Karlis converted a field goal 
in overtime to lift the Broncos 
past Cleveland 23-20 in the AFC 
championship game two weeks 
ago. 
"I'm sure Rich feels bad " 
Jackson said. "The syndro~e . when you lose in the Super Bowl is usually to blame your­self. I feel I lost the game be­
cause I didn't play much." 
Jackson suffered a knee in­
jury midway through the 
second quarter and didn't 
return. 
"I don't know the extent of it 
yet," he said. 
Elway completed 22 of 37 
passes for 304 yards, throwing 
a 47-yard TD pass to Johnson 
late in the game and running 4 
yards on a quarterback draw 
in the first quarter. 
Thanksto you ... itworb... for ALL OFUS 
Unlliadway
• 


Neighborhood Study HeiJ> Program 
announces an organizational meeting for all new tutors and interested students. 
CSC Multi-purpose Room Tuesday,Jan.27,1987 
7:00 (meeting will last only. 20 minutes) 
Those who recently signed up are expected to attend. 
Encouraging the growth ofthe children ofSouth Bend. 
Eye Exams

ProfessionalVISion 
Large Selection of Frames

Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 

20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
1635 N. Ironwood  1341 Portage  
277-1161  234-2400  
South of U.S. 23  Martins Shopping Center  


-
-----------------------------------~w-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, January 26, 1987-page 9 
The Observer 

Reggie Williams led the Georgetown Hoyas as they handed DePaul its first loss of the season. See the college basketball roundup below. 
PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Prograrns 
FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN JAPAN NEW YORK 
International programs are offered for students, 
teachers and working professionals. Courses 
inclurle: archaeology; architectural history; art 
history; clay and textile design; decorative arts: 
drawing: fashion; graphic design; painting and 
photography. Undergraduate and graduate credirs 
are available to qualified participants. For more 
information, please mail the coupon below or 
call the Parsons Office of Special Programs: 
(212) 741-8975. 
P.arsons School of Des!gn, Office of Special Programs 
66 Fifth Avenue. New York, N.Y. 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer 
Programs. 
Name 
Address 
City ___ State ____Zip _________ 
24 

Phelps voices displeasure with refs, but Richardson thinks differently 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES -If Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps had a song on his mind following Saturday's 63-59 loss at UCLA, it may have been Three Blind Mice dedicated to Charles Range, Willis McJunkin and Mark Reischling -the three Pac-10 officials who refereed the game. 
"I felt that in the last four minutes, I don't think we got one call from the officials,'' said Phelps. "It was the worst Pac-10 officiating I've had here in Pauley in 16 years. There was a lot of bumping and shoving going on. If you're going to call it, call it both ways. I just think it went their way." 
Particularly galling to Phelps was a charging call on David Rivers with three seconds left in the game. After Reggie Miller bottomed out a three-pointer from 28 (or more) feet, Rivers drove the length of the court and headed down the lane. What happened next was either a solid defen­sive play or a lousy call depend­ing on whose bench you sat on. 
UCLA's Dave Immel slid over to seal the lane and Rivers moved off to his left, making contact. The officials whistled Rivers for the offensive foul. 
"The last play was not a charge," said Phelps. 
"(Rivers) should have been going to the foul line for one­and-one, but instead they just let the calls go." 
Two other rulings also proved costly to the Irish in the final few minutes. With 48 seconds left and the Irish up four, Donald Royal drove to the hole and slammed it over Kevin Walker. Royal was called for charging and as Phelps protested in vain, the officials waved off the basket. 
The second call, or no call as it was, was the costliest to Phelps' squad. As Mark Stevenson brought the ball up against UCLA pressure, he fell to floor and lost the ball to Mil­ler, who hit the game-winner seconds later. 
"I thought Mark got tripped 
on that play and lost the ball," 
Phelps argued. "(Miller) goes 
down and shoots the three-point 
play because we can't get 
people back there to stop him 
and Stevenson's on the floor. 
"(The officiating) was really 
different. I've had some situa­
tions here that have been nega­
tive, but this is by far the worst 
I've ever seen it in Pauley 
Pavilion. That's a shame be­
cause it was a great game and 
it shouldn't have ended that 
way." 
Phelps declined to comment 
if he believed that it was the 
referees who had cost his team, 
but he did have advice for the 
assembled reporters. 
"You take a look at the replay of the last four minutes and tell me if I'm wrong," said Phelps. "I think you people saw what I saw." 
But when reporters told TJCLA point guard Pooh Rich­ardson about Phelps' com­ments, Richardson sang a dif­ferent tune. 
"I think that with his point guard turning over the ball 10 times -and I think five times in the last four minutes -how could you blame the referees?" asked Richardson. "On top of that, I remember when we went down there last year there was a replay and (former Irish forward Tim) Kempton was out-of-bounds saving a ball be­hind his back, which led to a five-point swing. Nobody com­plained about that, and were getting ready to pull out that game out. 
"I thought I was fouled on 
one three-point play. They 
counted the basket, but then 
they said it was an offensive 
foul. I didn't feel that was the 
right play, but I didn't argue 
with the refs." 
"I didn't hear him," contin­ued Richardson. "It sounds like he's pretty bitter. I think people can lose better than that just like people can win. I didn't hear anything mentioned about the refs last year, and I was pretty mad. I think people can lose better than that." 

College basketball roundup 
No more unbeatens 
Associated Press 

Reggie Williams' 3-point field goal with 28 seconds remammg yesterday high­lighted a 13-1 run that gave Georgetown a 74-71 victory over previously unbeaten and sixth-ranked DePaul. 
No.15 Georgetown trailed 70­61 with 2:44 remaining, but guard Mark Tillmon connected on a pair of 3-point baskets to cut the deficit to 70-67. A free throw by the Blue Demons' Dallas Comegys made it 71-67, but Tillmon hit a running one­bander to put Georgetown within two. After DePaul's Rod Strickland missed the front end of a one-and-one, Williams hit his game-winning shot from the right corner. 

After a DePaul turnover on a botched inbounds play, Wil­liams made two free throws with 16 seconds remaining. Comegys tried a three-point field goal with five seconds remaining, but the shot bounced off the rim and the Blue Demons were losers after 16 straight victories. 
Williams led Georgetown, 14­2, with 23 points and Tillmon added 19. 
Comegys scored 19 for DePaul, and Strickland added 18. Kentucky 80, Navy 69 
Rex Chapman scored 22 points and Kentucky defeated Navy in a nonconference game despite the 45-point perfor­mance of the Middies' David 
Robinson.  The  45  points  
equalled  Robinson's  career  
high  and  set  a  Rupp  Arena  

scoring mark, topping the 37 points by Freeman Williams of Portland State on Dec. 16, 1977. 
Navy fell to 13-5, while Ken­tucky, which has won four of its last five games, is 11-5. 
TCU 62, Houston 56 
Carven Holcombe had 24 points-, including two corner jumpers and two free throws in the final minutes, pacing Texas Christian over Houston in the Southwest Conference. TCU is 16-3. Kansas 74, N.C. State 
60 
Danny Manning's 30 points lifted Kansas over North Carolina State in a noncon­ference game in Kansas City. Kansas opened a 10-point lead late in the first half behind Manning's 16 points, and State fell behind 53-42 with 9:52 left after missing six of its first seven shots in the second half. 
Benny Bolton had 22 points for the Wolfpack, 12-5. Kansas is 13-5. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
... 
.. 


-
-_ 


The Observer Monday, January 26, 1987-page 10 
Track team turns back Spartans in meet that tough on the records 

By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
In a meet filled with record­breaking performances, the Notre Dame indoor track team downed Michigan State, 78-53, Friday night. 
In all, six meet records, two Notre Dame records, and one ACC record were established by the two schools. 
Irish shot putter Tom Krause set the tone early in the evening by setting a meet record and qualifying for the IC4A's with a toss of 54 feet, 2-3-'8 inches. Robert Fitzgerald took second. 
The Spartan's Mark Ingram continued the record-breaking by winning the 60-yard high hurdles in 7.3 seconds, a new meet record. Notre Dame's Glenn Watson, who was slow getting out of the blocks, took second. 
Perhaps the most exciting race of the evening was the 60­yard dash. Michigan State's Derrick Leonard won the race, set an ACC record and qualified for the NCAA championships with a time of 6.18. He edged Notre Dame's Tim Brown and Tony Ragunas, who both set school records and qualified for the IC4A's with identical hand­held times of 6.23. Once again the start hurt the Irish as Brown's start was termed by Head Coach Joe Piane as "sin­ful." Notre Dame's Mike Rogan then set a meet record in the mile with 9 time of 4: 15.7. He edged teammate and fellow New Yorker Mike O'Conner by two-tenths of a second. 
Three more meet records were set by the two teams. Mic­higan State's Chuck Cullen won the high jump with a mark of six feet, nine inches, while Chris Camponovo and Chris Matteo of Notre Dame tied for the pole vault record at 14 feet, six inches. Finally, Dan Gar­rett won the two-mile run with a time of 9:12.2. 
In other races, co-captains Jeff Van Wie and Robert Nobles both finished second in the 880 and 600-yard runs respectively. 
"I wasn't surprised by it," said Piane. "All they have done is distance workouts. They haven't done any speed at all." · Brown gained revenge over Leonard in the 300-yard dash, dusting him by a two-second margin. 
The Irish held the lead the entire meet, the closest score being 32-31 after the 440-yard dash. But an Irish sweep in the pole vault gave the Irish a ten­point cushion. 
Notre Dame took the only relay of the evening, as Nobles, Yan Searcy, Peter Demeo, and Chris McGuire won the mile relay. Nobles got the team to a large early lead, and McGuire held off Michigan State's Rod­ney Benson to win the race. 

Irish fall to St. Joe 
Special to The Observer 
The St. Joseph Hawks out­scored Notre Dame 27-16 over the final 10 minutes to secure a 71-57 victory. 
The Irish stayed with St. Joe in the first half, which ended in a 29-29 tie. Mary Gavin led the Irish attack with 12 first-half points, and the Irish enjoyed a 16-10 rebounding edge. They also shot 60.9 percent from the floor. 
In the second half, Teresa Carmichael scored 11 of her 15 points to help the Hawks distance themselves from the Irish. Debbie Black led the Hawks with 16 points. 

Sandy Botham and Diondra Toney each scored 16 to lead the Irish, and Gavin finished with 14 points and six assists. 
Notre Dame's record falls to 4-11, while St. Joe im­proved its mark to 12-4. 
Self-inflicted wound kills Purdue assistant 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­Willard G. Wells, an assistant football coach and recruiting coordinator at Purdue Univer­sity, died at his home from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, the Tippecanoe County coroner has ruled. 
Coroner Martin D. A volt said Wells, 43, died about 7:30p.m. Friday. A volt said no note was found and no autopsy would be performed. 
Wells came to Purdue in Jan­uary 1983 to work for Leon Burtnett, who was forced to resign as head coach after this past season. 
"Willard was a very close friend of the family, very close to my kids and very close to a lot of our footbal players," Burtnett said Saturday. "I am very, very sad at tltis point. We are all surprised and shocked." 
Wells, a native of Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada, played football at Boise Junior College and attended Franklin
• College before earning degrees from San Jose State in 1970 and 1971. 
He began his college coach­ing career as an assistant with Burtnett at San Jose State from 1971 to 1975. He moved on to Tulane in 1976 to coach outside linebackers and then took over special teams in 1978. He was in private business in New Or­leans when Burtnett hired him at Purdue. 
"Willard and I go way back to San Jose State where we recruited together," Burtnett said. "He was a tremendous man and he recruited many, many fine athletes to San Jose State. That situation and our relationship continued here at Purdue. 

The Observer Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Production Manager 
Interested applicants should submit resume and personal statment to Joe Murphy. Application Deadline Is Wed. Jan 28 at 5 PM 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
3rd Roor Lafortune student Center 
Fake 
continuedfrompage 12 
alignment -a run, a pass, a hit on the enemy. 
"I was really surprised. I'm going, 'We're going to run a fake here?' I looked over at Bill (Parcells) and said, 'Are you touched?' But it worked. The only way they could have stopped it was to have a goal­line defense." 
Immediately after the play, starting quarterback Phil Simms passed for 12 yards to Joe Morris and 23 more to Lee Rouson, putting the ball at the Denver 17-yard line. The Giants scored two plays later 
for  a  16-10  lead  and  never  
looked back.  
"I think it  was  a  big, big  

play," Rutledge said of the sneak. "It was really minor on my part. I was really surprised 
WORK FOR 
YOURSELF 
At. a campUJ rep you'U be responsible for placing advertising materials on bulletin boards and working on marketing programs for clients such as American Express, the Navy, CBS and campus recruiters. Part-time work, choose your own hours. No sales. Many of our reps stay with UJ long after graduation. If you are self-motivated and a bit of an entrepreneur, call or write for more information to: 
1-800·221-5942 (Central Time), American Passage Network, 6211 W. Howard Street, Chicago, IL 60648. 
Cbicogo, Dlllu, Los Angeles, New Yortt, S..ttle 
that they called it. That's the Rouson, who ran for a first first time I've ever done it." down. In New York's 19-16 victory . "The linebackers never 
over Denver earlier this walked up to the line. That's season, the Giants ran the play what I was waiting on," said with Jeff Hostetler at quarter­Rutledge, who delayed calling back. He handed the ball to for a snap from Oates. 

Happy Chinese New Year (Jan. 29) All you can eat buffet $7.95 

Includes: soup, appetizers 8 entrees and dessert Jan. 25 (Sun.) thru Jan. 29 (Thurs.) 
5:00p.m. -9:00p.m. 

Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272·7376 South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE 
is currently accepting applications for the position of 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 

within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. 
In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. 
Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law degree program at a leading 
university.  Many  return  to  Merrill  Lynch  after  
completing  their  advanced  degrees  to  build  their  
professional careers in invest ment banking.  
Becoming a  Candidate:  

If you are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to: 
Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago, IL 60606 
Please respond before February I5, 19-87. 
-

----------~----------------------------------------------...o~~ 
'JI['t(Jt~~~------------------------------------------------------M•o•n•da•y•'•Ja•n•u•ar•y•2•6,•1•98•7•-•pa•g•e-11
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Si:me; Of 1/5 WERE /l.fJN/7Ef?IIV& 
1li!IT'S V&"KY 5W6&T. 
I 
IKJW YO<IR RO/f1/.WC£ WITH t.otA 
I 1/5/(£17 HGR fF MY &f{JJNO/.A 15 CO~lNG llt.OtVG. 
~y 1Vfi'#£/llf£R av..• 
5H£ 511117 llt.l 5H£ IIIV/l 17(} YtJ{f K!VM 
WII!VT5 (J(Jr OF II t.OV~ 

fM5fiOK7 
we; WEKE WIITl:fffNG II WHIIT 511£ SII/P ? 
f'HY5/CIIt.t.Y Ill?£ ''t./!'5 5Yt.VE51l* 51llt.t.ONE MOV/£ 
ov {JtJ7JI
1ll K/55 II!VP II 5HO{flaf? 

/.A5T NIGHT IIN/l 5~ U#/5 
WCRYON." 

Cc:?t1VJ6~ 
, I,. 
: CA5P: Oil NO... I I I ' XNfJJ TillS 
J./OULD COftl/£ JOON£1{ ~ 
.. _
LATER ... 



11:45 a.m.: Economics department devel­opment workshop, "Soviet Development in Central Asia, 1928-61: Problems of Mea­surement and Evaluation," by Prof. Charles Wilber, ND, 131 Decio 
3:30-5:00p.m.: Computer Mini-courses Overview and Tour, 115 Computing Cen­ter; and, Word Processing on the Macin­tosh, 108 Computing Center, limit 10, to register call Betty 239-5604 6:30p.m.: Meeting, CILA, CSC 7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Lola Montes," 1955, color, 100 minutes, Max Ophuls, France, Annenberg Auditorium 7:00-9:00 p.m.: Social Action Club open house, Haggar (::ollege Center parlor, refreshments served 
7:30 p.m.: An Introduction to Natural Family Planning by Mr. and Mrs. Timothy fulnecky, South Bend, Hayes­Healy Auditorium, Sponsors: University Ministry and Natural Family Planning of St. Joseph County 7:30p.m.: Meeting, Fellowship of Chris­tian Athletes, Stanford-Keenan 24-hr. lounge 

ceti Hang out in LaFortune much? 
Do you have a pierced ear( right or left?) Got a new wavedoo? Answer any ofthese questions and we've got 
music for you.  
Marginal Man (Wash. D.C.)  Saturday, January 31  
Precious Wax Drippings (Chicago)  Bpm  
N.D.'s own: Youth in Asia  $5  
Damaged Retina  Stepan Center  

The Daily Crossword 
7:30 p.m.: Lecture, "Shakespeare, Mot­her of Us All," by Coppellia Kahn of Wes­leyan University. Part of the series, "Feminist Criticism of the Literary Virtues of Re-Reading," sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, Memorial Li­brary Auditorium 
9:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Absence of Malice," 1984, color, 116 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Breaded Pork Chop Turkey Turnover Baked Sole with Rice Dressing Tuna Muffin Melt 
Saint Mary's 
French dip Broccoli stuffed fish Eggplant parmesan Deli bar 


Notre J?ame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
ACROSS 1 Earp wore one 5 Hardens 9 Heb. prophet 
13 Roof edge 14 Gem unit of 
weight 15 Lose freshness 16 Outing 17 Shade of blue 18 Actress Raines 19 Saltine 22 Relations 23 Bribe 24 Made out 26 Pioneers 31 Vinegarish 32 -de France 33 Helped with 
dishes 35 Characteristic 38 Ananias 40 Cook 42 Doghouse sign 43 Piglike 
mammal 45 Wall hanging 47 Additional 
<>1967 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 

All Rights Reserved
48 Fusses 50 Emphasizes 52 Mrs. King 11 Kukla's 55 Make an sidekick 
effort 12 Small table 56 Choose 14 Faultfinders 57 Work respite 20 Unfriendly 63 Successor 21 Lend moral 65 La Scala site support 66 Impulse 25 Territory 67 Vicinity 26 Stream deposit 68 Fourth estate 27 Director 69 Bucket Kazan 70 Poet Ogden 28 Afternoon 71 Fix in place socials 72 Hog feed 29 Miss Hayworth 
30 Crystal gazers 
DOWN 34 Sudden 1· Coteries movement 2 Poi source 36-fixe 3 Rarin' to go (obsession) 4 Meal 37 Hauls 5 Festive 39 Needle 6 Norse explorer 41 Arboreal 7 Has need of carnivores 8 Brews 44 Campus 9 Holy dread mil. drg. 
1 0 Late night 46 Slavic tongue rail carriers 49 Tramples on 
Tommy 7, 9, 11 pm EG Auditorium Wed, Thurs 
$1.00 The Gods 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm Must EG Auditorium Be Crazy Fri, Sat $1.50 

51 Cough mixtures 59 Orient 52 George M. -60 Epochal 53 Puccini forte 61 Exchange 54 Burning premium 58 Market or 62 Seaweed 
circus 64 Stadium cheer 
... 



Monday, January 26, 1987-page 12

S~orts 
Giants roll to Super Bowl win 
~~.._ ..,.. Simms named game's MVP;· Giants beat Broncos, 39-20 
Associated Press good as he has ever played." New York's second-half 
PASADENA, Calif. -The surge started innocently 
New York Giants vs. John El­enough. 
way? how about the Denver Three plays netted 9 yards, 
Broncos vs. Phil Simms? and the Giants' punting team 
The Giants won their first ran onto the field to punt from NFL championship in 30 years its own 46. Suddenly, the Giants yesterday, scoring 30 points in shifted out of punt formation,
--
the second half to beat the and Jeff Rutledge, the second­Broncos 39-20 in their first string quarterback, came up Super Bowl. behind center. The ball was snapped and The Giants' victory was Rutledge gained 1 yard and a earned primarily in two areas: first down. the highly publicized defense and the underpublicized Six plays later, Simms hit Simms, who ran a distant tight end Mark Bavaro for 13 second to his blond Denver yards, the Giants led 16-10 and counterpart in the pre-game the rout was on. hype. "It was about two feet," Par­
Phil Simms completed 22 of 25 passes en route All Simms did was complete cells said of the fourth-downto capturing MVP honors in yesterday's 39-20 22 of his 25 passes -a Super play. "You know, you're trying Bowl record 88 percent. He to win the game. This is for the threw for 268 yards and three world championship. It's not
Fake punt call helps turn the tide for Giants 
touchdowns to be named MVP for faint-hearted people. He's of the game. either going to go for it or take
as they turn halftime deficit into big victory 
Simms also set a Super Bowl a delay. If it's not there, I'll record with 10 consecutive take the delay. He looked over Associated Press The Giants lined up in punt "We've been doing that same oompletions during the third at me. I nodded my head to 
formation, but Rutledge was in little punt deal all season. and fourth quarter, when the him, and he went for it." 
PASADENA, Calif. A the blocking back position, not We've been practicing it for Giants turned a 10-9 halftime simple nod by Coach Bill Par­Gary Reasons, who's usually about 15 weeks. There are three deficit into a 33-10 lead without Denver Coach Dan Reeves cells from the sidelines put the deployed there. or four things we do out of it. allowing as much as a first lamented: "We just didn't have New York Giants in motion for The Giants shifted into a T­''Rutledge is really heady down to Denver. enough to make it interesting. the key play of their resounding formation with Rutledge kneel­guy. If he thinks it's there, he's They certainly are a great foot­39-20 Super Bowl victory over ing under center and punter going to run it. If he doesn't, "Our offense had a lot to ball team and they played a the Denver Broncos yesterday. Sean Landeta going in motion he's going to take the delay of prove coming in to it," Simms great game. In the first half, 
The play itself was simple, a from his spot some 15 yards be­game. He looked over at me said. "When I was warming up we should have scored about 10 2-yard quarterback sneak by hind center Bart Oates. and I nodded my head." I told everyone, 'I've got it more points at least. second-string quarterback Jeff As the 30-second clock came Oates said he didn't know today.' I was throwing real "We knew going into the Rutledge early in the third close to running out, Rutledge what was going on until he saw well." game if we didn't take advan­quarter, but it gave the Giants took the snap and plowed some strange faces around "I think that ought to dispel tage of every opportunity, we'd the fi;-st down at their own 48-slightly to his right for the first him. any myth about Phil Simms," be in tough shape," Reeves yard line that started the rout. down. "That's when I knew it was Giants Coach Bill Parcells said said. "The field position in the 
The Giants had taken the "We thought we really had to a fake punt," he said. "It was of his quarterback, frequently third quarter really killed us. second-half kickoff and were in go after them offensively, not what we call our Arapaho booed during his eight years in We were backed up to our 15­a fourth-and-1 situation at their play conservative," Parcells New York. "He was absolutely 46, trailing 10-9. said. "It's a gut feeling. see FAKE, page 10 magnificent today. That's as see GIANTS, page 7 
UCLA's full-court press bumps Irish at Pauley 
ND loses 11-point lead in closing minutes; Phelps loses patience with game's officials 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN on David Rivers with three As for Hazzard, whose 12-4 Sports Editor seconds remammg sealed (6-2 in the Pac-10) team has Notre Dame's fate, as the Irish made a habit of late rallies, it 
LOS ANGELES-Sometimes, lost their second straight and was business as usual. a shooter just has a feeling. third of their last four games "They've conditioned me to 
"I knew it was in all the in falling to 9-5 on The Shot. expect the unexpected. I was way," said UCLA forward I not happy being down by 11, but Reggie Miller of The Shot, the related story on page 9 I didn't feel like the other night three-pointer from another against Oregon St. when we time zone, which rallied his "I was looking for a place to blew a 22-point lead," said Haz­Bruins from an 11-point deficit mount up and shoot the three," zard. "I've been there with this to down Notre Dame at Pauley said Miiler, who had a game­club before. A year ago with Pavilion Saturday, 63-59. high 26 points. "I was going for this team, it probably would 
The Shot came with just 10 the win because they didn't have gone the other way, but seconds to play and the Irish have anybody who could shoot with this year's team's spirit leading, 59-58. When Notre the three-pointer. I knew they and talent, it never quits. Dame's Mark Stevenson lost would come down and try to tie, "Someday, we'll see that control of the ball against the so I was looking to mount up same kind of effort for 40 · Bruin press nea;· midcourt, for the three." minutes from our team. Other Miller scooped up the ball and But while Miller, who had teams take note, no lead is safe tossed it to Pooh Richardson, only connected on one-of-six against us. Our best playing who found Miller again in front three-pointers before The Shot, days are ahead of us." of the Bruin bench and Head had every confidence in his Miller's last second heroics Coach Walt Hazzard -28 feet shot, at least one of his team­overshadowed an almost­from the bucket. With Steven­mates had a different opinion. brilliant second half by Rivers, 
The Observer /Mike Ur 

son on him, Miller turned and "I was mad that he took it," who showed no signs of the 
fired up The Shot which said Richardson. "I thought he ankle injury which had limited Notre Dame's David Rivers tries to stop a layup in action earlie 
brought the house and the Irish should have passed it back out his practice time before the this season. Dennis Corrigan has the details of Saturday's toug 
down. to me. Maybe he didn't know loss to UCLA in his story at left and highlights Digger Phelps 
A controversial charging call how much time we had left." see SHOT, page 8 unhappiness with the officiating in a story on page 9. 
APPhoto 
Giants win. See Super Bowl stories at right and below, as well as on page 8. 







