Nosediving
IACCENT: Playwright has high hopes Windy today, showers likely. High in the upper 50s. Cold with possible light showers or snowshowers tomorrow. High
!VIEWPOINT: Co-ed dorms on campus 
in the middle 30s. 

1f'l0Tr1[ CAM( DlR : CC"_L· · ·:,...·• 
OP /1·-'~=. ;8o.._. z1 E'<PE.D 1 TE **** 
-J 1.1C **** !
**** NE.~~ 1

-LLE.rTIQNS
(II "" 

:; p E. C 1 J\L . -_, R A R yHESB~RGH LIE lN 46556 Ni)\ RE. DAI" E. 

---=-~•:==== 
VOL. XXI, NO. 54 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's , 


Senate against use of student funds for food fight bill 
By GREG LUCAS had no power to determine said the goal posts that were torn life, to attend the senate dining hall workers apprecia­Senior Staff Reporter student senator Brian HolsL down at the Alabama game or meeting next week and present tion night. "It's not clear to me "In order to have retributive damage incurred in the yearly his ideas on how the bill should why we are responsible for fin­
Student senate members responsibility, we need con­snowball fight. be paid. ancial restitution.'' agreed Monday night that no tributive rights," he said. "Should 8000 students be Senate members said that Student Activities funds should Holst also questioned the paying for something that 800 they would be able to vote on Bob Daley, HPC co-be used to pay the $1,400 food precedent that would be set if students did?" asked Jim specific actions after hearing chairman, said that Goldrick fight damages bill. Student Activities funds were Winkler, HPC representative Goldrick's arguments. had not insisted that the money 
used to pay damage fines. Holst from Alumni Hall. "I think we've (Senate and come from the Student Activi­Student Government was 
said that such action might Senate members decided to HPC) been very responsible" ties budget, but that he had being given the responsibility leave student funds open to ask John Goldrick, associate said Dave Kinkopf, sophomore stressed that the student body 
for upholding rules which they 
other damage repairs such as vice president for residence class president, citing the would pay for the damages. 

Budget talks near deadline 
Associated Press next two years, participants said. 
WASHINGTON -Rising oppo­But that politically delicate sition eroded the prospects for step was becoming more doubt-cutting the usually untouchable Social Security program Mon­~; You can see them way out day as White House and con­on the horizon, but they may gressional negotiators began be going over the edge," said their final push for a deficit­Sen. Bennett Johnston, D-La. reduction agreement by In another room in the Friday's deadline. Capitol, a group of organiza­
"We're making slow, tions, including advocates for deliberate progress," insisted the elderly and federal em­House Majority Leader ployee unions, said the budget Thomas Foley, D-Wash., chair­cuts must not be done at their man of the talks. Others spoke expense. with increasing frustration. "We all want to see the def­
··There's a reluctance to icit reduced, but the way to cut lead. It's as if we want to invite the deficit is not to cut Social the <whole) House and Senate Security," said Rep. Claude to give us a package, and it's Pepper, D-Fla., the oldest not going to work that way," member of Congress, who led complained Sen. Bob Pack­the news conference via televi­wood of Oregon, senior Repub­sion. lican on the Senate Finance "The president assured that Committee. this would not be on the table," 
"We're looking at all the op­said Arthur Flemming, former tions again," said Rep. Leon secretary of the old Depart­Panetta, D-Calif. "We're ment of Health, Education and treading water." Welfare. 
Some continued to argue in Meanwhile, President the closed-door meetings that Reagan, in a speech Monday to entitlement costs, including So­the annual meeting of the 
The Observer I Todd Tucker

cial Security, should be con­American Council of Life In­Hold still trolled to give credibility to surance, repeated his opposi­


their plans to reduce deficits by 
see BUDGET, page 3

$75 billion to $80 billion over the 
SMC board announces 'famous vacation' 
By MIMI TUOHY one night at the Swiss Valley Staff Reporter ski resort in Three Rivers, Michigan.
The Famous Vacationers; Five winners will be cho­a band scheduled to begin its sen and each will be allowed first nationwide tour in the to bring three friends alongspring, will play in Saint with them, for a total of Mary's Haggar Parlor on twenty vacationers, said Dec. 4, Halane Young, Stu­Young. Tickets will be sold dent Activities Board com­for $1 each starting Monday, missionner, told the Saint Nov. 30, and sales will con­Mary's Programming tinue until that Friday, the Board. day of the show. 
In order to publicize the "I think (the Famous event, Young said a raffle Vacationers) are a reallyfor a "famous vacation" will hot group, especially since be held prior to the show. we are getting them before The grand prize is a vacation package for two days and see EVENTS, page 3 
The statue of Jesus on God Quad looks bright and uses a wire brush and scraper to remove the clinging fresh again after renovations yesterday. A worker corrosion, then applies a coat of light green paint. 


Students 'take the goalpost' 
By CELESTE FREIND people we always have; they Although the extent of the Staff Reporter were simply deployed differ­damage to the upright has not ently." yet been determined, O'Brien In the post-game celebration He added that the ushers, se­estimates the cost should run of Saturday's win over Ala­curity guards, and state police anywhere from $1,300 to bama, students in the stadium have been "working to keep replace the gooseneck to $1,700 
stormed the field amid shouts people off the field to prevent to replace the entire upright. of "take the goal post." them from injuring or mobbing "There is some damage to 
Despite attempts by ushers, the players, and I believe we the turf where the goal post state police and security to did this admirably." pivoted down to the field, but keep them away, student Rakow said although there it isn't extensive," said succeeded in tearing down the were a few minor injuries to Stadium Superintendent goalpost in the south endzone. students and police, mainly Harold Benninghoff, adding 
bumps and bruises, "Serious that pieces of the sod were 
Replacement costs range injury could have evolved from removed, but the damage to the anywhere from $1,300 to $1,700, such 'celebrating,' and this field was negligible. said Joseph O'Brien, the ath­doesn't speak well for the stu­Director of Security Rex letic department's business dent body." Rakow said that security was manager. He also said the ath­Rakow said seven students not stepped up, despite the fact letic department will pay for were arrested for public in­that Alabama was the final the damage and the student toxication and disorderly con­home game of the football body will not be assessed the duct and eight people ejected season. Rakow said there were costs of repair. from the stadium. "the same complement of 

Tuesday, November 17, 1987
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Several fans were ejected or arrested in the 
stadium during Saturday's football game, according to 
Notre Dame Security. City police, county police and Se­
curity combined to arrest seven students and eject at least 
seven others from the stadium for either disorderly con­
duct, public intoxication, or both. At least three out-of-town 
fans were arrested, one for battery of a police officer. One 
student was ejected for throwing oranges onto the field. 
-The Observer 
The death toll in the crash of a Continental Airlines DC-9 in Denver has risen to 27. Flight recorders pulled from the twisted remains of the plane were flown to Wash­ington on Monday to determine what caused the jet to crash during a snowstorm. The twin-engine plane was taking off from Stapleton International Airport Sunday afternoon when it flipped upside down and broke into three pieces as it slid down the runway three-quarters of a mile. At least nine survivors remained in critical condition Mon­day. -Associated Press 
The summit between Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev scheduled for December may be postponed if a treaty to ban intermediate-range nuclear missiles is not ready to be signed by the end of the month, a State De­partment official said Monday. With Soviet leader Gor­bachev due to arrive here Dec. 7, four treaty issues are not settled. These include safeguards against Soviet cheat­ing as well as a Soviet proposal to follow the accord with negotiations apparently designed to impose restrictions on U.S. jet planes in Europe. If the treaty is ready there apparently is no question the summit will go ahead as scheduled. -Associated Press 


Of Interest 

The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7:30 in the Stanford 24-hour lounge. Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal will speak. -The Observer CILA, the Community of the International Lay Apost­alate, will sponsor a social awareness dinner /rap session with Steve Moriarty, a Notre Dame alumnus, at 5 tonight in the faculty dining room in the South Dining hall. Moriarty will show slides and talk about his experiences in El Salvador. -The Observer '~A J~stice f~r All Day" is the title of a panel discussion that will be held at 7 p.m. in Room 101 Law School. The panel, ~om_Prised of area attorneys, profes­s~rs, and those W?rkmg m and serviced by social services, will address the Issue of poverty in America. -The Obser­ver Michael Novak, theologian, will give a lecture titled, "Will Liberation Theology Liberate?" at 7:30p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. This is the final session in Novak's series of Tuesday eve­ning lectures. -The Observer Mutombo Mpanya and Harold Miller will be holding a seminar on "The Effects of Militarization and War on African Food Systems," today at noon in Room 131 Decio. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Deoign Editor ..................... Rob Luxem Viewpoint Cop11 Editor .... Chris Donnelly Deaign Ao.Utont ............... Joe Zadrozny ........................................Matt Slaughter T11pe1etlero .............. Becky Gunderman Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young ..........................................Daniel Cahill Accent La11out............. Katy Kronenberg New• EditoT. . ....... Regis Coccia Typilt . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenn Conlon COfll/ Editor . . . Tim O'Keefe ND Day Editoro ....... David Lee Sport• CoPJI Editor. . ... Pete Gegen Photoprapher ... . ...... .. ... .. ... Todd Tucker ne o..r-(USPS 599 2-GIO) is publisMd Monday throuah Friday except durin& cum and vacation periods. ne ~is publisMd by the students of the University of Notre Dulle IUid Saint Mary's CoUeae. Sublc:riptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year (Sl$ per scmatcr) by writina ne <*enw, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dulle, ladiana 465~. ne o..r-is a member of ne A.odaW ..._, All reproduction ri&hll are raened.  



Seniors: Learn to relax; things'll be swinging 
This column is for seniors only; everyone else please go straight to Calvin and Hobbes or sports. 
Dear Seniors, I know what you're thinking about right now. You're thinking about absolutely everything. You know what I mean, ever since you found 
out that you really really do have to graduate from this place in May you've been stressing out. 
Suddenly everything is crucial and critical and important and pressing and urgent and must be done ASAP. 
You have to do well on the MCAT, GMAT, LSAT, and GRE while keeping up your GPA and trying to find a Mr. or Mrs. 
You just know that if you don't fill out that application or prepare that resume or make up a personal statement right now you are going to wreck your chances to have a career and be successful and meet someone who really loves you and get married and raise a mess of kids and buy a station wagon and settle down and be happy for ever and ever. 
And if you don't, you might wind up poor and alone and friendless and ignored. 
To make matters worse, tonight you have a twelve-page paper to write and a thesis to create and there's a great party going on and you're going to feel guilty if you don't write the paper and go to the party and you're going to feel guilty if you do write the paper and don't go to the party because you only have twenty Sunday nights left to socialize. 
To make matters worse, your dog just died:and your parents are starting to get old and 
your little sister is starting to ask questions 
about birth control and your high school was just torn down to make a shopping mall and you've got student loans that make the national debt seem trifling and now that you've finally really settled into Notre Dame and have a few really good friends and can recognize at least ten people when you walk across the quad, some malicious little administrative priest-type un­der the dome is going to force you to graduate and you'll never see any of your friends ever again. Besides, no one wants to hire you and you have enough rejection letters to wallpaper your room and you're not sure if you're really cut out for the real world anyway so you just want to go back to bed and forget about every­thing. 
See, my friend, I told you that I know what you're thinking; I'm thinking the same things myself. 
Now let's do something about this mess that we're in. 
DRINKING AND DRIVIG CAN Kl1 A FRIENDSHIR 

Mike 
~.
~~d
Naughton \; . ' 
"· ·-' ,
Accent Editor 
~ 
First, get out of bed. 
O.K., don't get out of bed, but at least take 
that pillow off your head and listen to me. 
I'm not going to tell you to "relax" and "don't worry." Telling a senior not to worry is like telling a skydiver to stop falling. It just doesn't make a whole lot of sense; we seniors are stressed, we have a right to be stressed, and it would be damned strange if we weren't stressed. Maturing is a stressful activity. 
There are, however, different ways of dealing with stress. Some of us go out compulsively. others drink too much, others exercise or try to find somewhere to hide. I, for one, like to swing. 
By swinging, I don't mean that vaguely sleazy practice where morally lax singles put on Aramis or Obsession and try to meet other equally morally lax singles in dimly-lit bars. 
By swin9Vlg, I mean that art of childhood where you have a little wooden (or rubber) seat hung from two chains and you swing back and forth, back and forth, and back and forth until a bigger kid pushes you off or it gets dark and mom makes you come home for dinner. 
Swinging is the perfect therapy for seniors. 
Everyone knows how to do it; you couldn't "malswing" if you wanted to. It's also great therapy for those of us who feel the real world breathing down our necks; urgency and swings are incompatible. Swinging is also one of those few activites which which is purely self~ indulgent but not illegal, immoral, fattening or wrong. 
Children know what seniors forget: even if you feel like you're not getting anywhere you can still enjoy the ride. 
1 I 
(/!1/j 
~~ ~ 
~ 

~ J~ 



Rocko ose Willing to 
Ten years ago, Spiritual Rock made a commitment of service to the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. If you are interested in helping us help others, or just want to join us in Christian fellowship, feel free to attend our Wednesday night meetings (Farley Hall Chapel at 7:00p.m.), or call one of the following people for more information: 
Bob Hutchison 
3501 
Ethiopian relief  
stopped by rebels  
Associated Press  plies. Eritrea is still able to get  
food from the province's Red  
ADDIS  ABABA, Ethiopia  - Sea port of Massawa.  
Emergency airlifts of food are  Trucks, already scarce in the  
the  only  hope  for  tens  of  north, were destroyed by the  
thousands of drought victims in  dozens in the attacks, including  
northern Ethiopia whose relief  23 U.N.-flagged trucks.  
pipeline has been disrupted by  Normally this would be the  
rebel attacks, the chief of U.N.  height of the harvest in Et­ 
relief efforts said Monday.  hiopia. But fields stand plowed  
"We had hoped to avoid the  and unplanted in some areas  
colossal expense of an airlift,  because  the  rains  failed  in  
but most relief agencies agree  June. In other areas, too little  
that  an  immediate  airlift  is  rain produced stunted crops of  
needed,"  said  Michael  wheat and sorghum. Livestock  
Priestley, head of the United  now graze on food intended for  
Nations' relief program in Et­ people.  
hiopia.  Farmers and relief officials  
Priestley said he hoped air­ say the drought and food situa­ 
lifts could begin in the next few  tion is worse than during a 1984  
weeks  to  Tigray  province,  drought,  which  was  followed  
where 75 percent of the crop  the next year by a famine that  
has failed and 1 million people  killed 1 million Ethiopians.  
face starvation.  The Relief and Rehabilita­ 
In neighboring Eritrea, there  tion Commission, the govern­ 
is a total crop loss, and another  ment agency responsible for  
1 million people are at risk.  drought and famine relief, said  
Attacks on truck convoys by rebels in Eritrea have  Friday in an appeal to donors that Ethiopia needed 1.05 mil­ Chairmen of the Board  The Observer I Todd Tucker  
prompted the government to  lion metric tons of relief food  Ty Soares, left, and Ike McGettrick battle one another  tries to defend himself against Soares' queen pawn 
close intermittently the main  to feed 5.2 million of its 46 mil­ in the first round of the Notre Dame Chess Champi­ opening. 
road to Tigray, choking off sup- lion people next year.  onship, held in LaFortune Student Center. McGettrick  



U.S. Bishops urged to fight school contraceptives 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -America's Roman Catholic bishops were urged by one of their national leaders Monday to step up their battle against the "morally ob­jectionable" practice of public school health clinics handing out contraceptives and giving abortion counseling. 
The bishops, on the opening day of their annual meeting, got a formal first look at a lengthy statement that would declare their opposition to such practices on grounds that many Catholic young people at­tend public schools. 
The statement, which will be put to a vote by the 300 bishops Thursday, calls for federal and state governments to outlaw school dispensing of contracep­tives as not only morally wrong but of questionable use in dealing with what the bishops concede is a problem of preg­nancy among teen-agers. 
"The provision of contracep­tive and abortion services through school-based clinics is morally objectionable and is open to question even on practi­cal grounds as a response to the problem of teen-age preg­nancy," the statement said. 
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago, a former president of the bishops' national organiza­tion, said at Monday's session that "the seemingly intrac­table problem of teenage pregancy (is) one that will not admit of an amoral or purely technological solution.'' 
"To the extent that school­based clinics are part of a pro­gram for more efficient promo­tion of contraceptives and abortion-related services to minors, they are part of the problem rather than the key to a solution," Bernardin said. 
Also on Monday, the bishops: 
--Heard their president, Archbishop John May of St. Louis, give a glowing account of a "dynamic and vibrant" 
U.S. Church in the midst of a healthy, affirmative relation­ship with Pope John Paul II in the wake of his recent Ameri­can trip. May's first "State of the Church" address, unlike some of other presidents' in recent years, gave hardly a hint of tensions between the Vatican and the 52.9 million­member U.S. branch. 
--Received copies of a pro­posed statement declaring that the U.S. government should help impoverished Central American nations and "not use Central American lives as pawns in a superpower struggle" with t!le Soviet Union. 

30 SECOND WARNING GRACE HALL DEBATES 

Budget 
continued from page 1 
tion to tax increases to reduce the deficit. 
"There are right steps and wrong steps," to take in reduc­ing the deficit, he said, "and hiking tax rates is the wrong step." 

Events 
continued from page 1 
a nationwide tour. Anybody who misses this show will kick themselves when they see this 
But the president expressed confidence that the talks would succeed in meeting the goals outlined in the Gramm­Rudman law. "We're deter­mined to achieve at least a $23 billion deficit reduction this fis­cal year and stay on the path to a balanced budget," he said. 
House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, said he would push 
band on MTV later," Young said. 
In other business, the pro­gramming board voted to spon­sor a Thanksgiving project for the poor and needy in the South Bend community by collecting food, clothes and money in all through the House the product of the talks even if it included limiting or delaying Social Se­curity increases. But that 
would "be a toughie," he said. 
The fiscal 1987 deficit was $148 billion, down $73 billion from the previous year. But es­timates show the deficit could rise again in fiscal 1988, which began Oct. 1. 
of the dorms. 
"We would like for people to donate whatever they can be­cause wintertime is coming, and that is the time when these people can really use our help,'' said Smith Hashagen, vice president of student affairs. 
TONIGHT'S TOPIC 
'·Resolved: Armed Protection of Kuwaiti tankers in the Persian Gulf is the most effective way the United States can promote the security of itself and its allies in the troublesome area." Judge: Professor Sharon O'Brien NO Government Department 
JU.t.aa.adDer. 
'-nm.18t'IJJU'l1J1CO'.& I want t.o h&wt ch1ldN:n wb1Je 11\J' puenta are 
.wJ~~IoD \&DCIIN ol.......~
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20
***COMPLIMENTARY REFRESHMENTS SERVED*** 
......... !
8:00 PM STEPAN CENTER
NIGHTLY RAFFLE 
-COME AND EXPERIENCE THE EXCELLENCE , 
(DOORS OPEN AT 7:00PM)
OF THE GRACE HALL DEBATES.•. WHEN: TONIGHT, 9:00 pm 
FOR STUDENTS ($8.00 PUBLIC)-A
WHERE: GRACE HALL PIT 
AT THE CELLAR SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOARD 

B aprlnter withyour tos an conserve er 



ImagtWriter"' II printer will save 
)00 hours oftirre. Not to rrention gallons ofcor­rection fluid and reams and reams of paper. And, if)00 buy both now, the first ream of 
paper )0011 save will have alovely green glow. purchase with avariety of financing options. 
You'll save abundle ofcashwhen )UU pur­We feel compelled to tell )Oll, though,that chase an ImagLWriter II printer alongwith)UUr areal like this can't last forever~ So its agood choice ofaMacintosh Plus or a Macintosh SE. icBi to see your campus microcomputer center Eitherway )UUUbe able to tum out beautifully today. And join the conservation movement written and beautifully printed papers. 
Andwe11 even try to help )00pay for )Ollf The power to be )Ollr best"' 
Computer Store -Room 25 Computing Center 
. ----­


Accent
Tuesday, November 17, 1987 
page 5 
Saint .Mary's professor I playwright hopes 'Thursday's Child' recognition will take her far 
TAMI JENELLE ETTEN accent writer 

F 
ourty-five year old 
playwright Julie Jensen of 

Saint Mary's Communication 
and Theatre Department has 
never had a child. She's only 
written about it. 
In her latest play, "Thursday's Child," which 
l 
"The trick is to get through 
gracefully what you cannot 

change," said Jensen (stealing 
from George Ann). "Abortion is 
not an option for her. She has 
a no-return policy on kids." 

It's George Ann's way of dealing with the serious issue that makes Jensen say the play is a comedy: "(She) Is a witty woman who like most of us in our most desperate moments is capable of great humor. 
"The play is also a comedy because it is about ordinary lives which hinge less on politics than Diet Coke and less on nuclear disarmament than on who's got the car." 
The play, which Jensen "completed" last semester, was put on the department's theatrical calendar by her re­quest. In the past, she has found It helpful to direct her new plays shortly after their completion. In 1981, Saint Mary's performed her play "Sojourner Truth" and in 1983 they performed a series of one­acts under the title "Kitchen Gothics." 
She thinks the experience is not only valuable for herself, but for the actors as well: "It's an entirely new process with a new play. Actors are called upon to do It in a different process." "They go in believ­ing implicitly in you, the play and the characters," she con­tinued. But they learned. While not many things in life are changeable, plays are. 
"We've changed this play enormously," Jensen said. These changes included shift­ing the order of major scenes, 
as well as rewritinq the ending-­
four times. 

Jensen has definitely proved that playwriting is a slow process. But there may be one thing that comes more slowly -­recognition. "How do you go on endlessly with no valida­tion?" she asks herself. "You 
just do," she answers with confidence. 

Although her 1985 play "Stray Dogs" was a finalist in the CBS-TV I Federation of Dramatists Guild new plays competition, was produced professionally at the Arena Stage in Washington, D.C. and was published, "It just didn't go anywhere after that," she said. And the minor recognition that she got 'just wasn't enough." 
But things are changing for her. Next February, "Thursday's Child" will be professionally produced by the capital Reper­tory in Albany, New York. On top of that, she has been com­missioned to write Philadephia stage's next play, and a Uni­veral Pictures representative has recently contacted her about the possibility of creating a screenplay. 
As the saying goes, "If Wed­nesday's child is full of woe, then 'Thursday's Child' (and its creator) has far to go!" 
'Thurday's Child" will be performed at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium Novem­ber 18-21 at 8 p.m. and No­vember 22 at .3 p.m. for ticket information contact the O'Laughlin Box Office at 284­4626. 
opens at Saint Mary's 

O'Laughlin Auditorium Novem­
ber 18, Jensen's main charac­
ter is a fourty-four year old 
mother of three adolescent 
children who finds out she is 
pregnant. 

"At that age, some choices are not available to you," said Jensen. "We serve people badly In letting them believe that to resolve their problems, all they have to do is walk out the door." 
As the middle-aged mother, George Ann Bradshaw is faced with the challenge of "doing the brave thing." As the playwright, Jensen is faced with the challenge of moving the audience away from the belief that "everything is change­able." 



Innovations deserve 

corns are repeats) Theodore's 
offers movie videos or DJs. 
Some upcoming ideas for stu­
dents who want to start the 
weekend early include showing 
movies and serving free pop­
corn. 
Theodore's does not shut 
down during the week either. 
Monday through Wednesday 
the club Is available to all 
campus groups for use at no 
charge. Recently Student Gov­
ernment, health services, 
regional alumni groups and 
dorms have all taken advan­
tage of Theodore's extensive 
facilities during the week. 
With all of Theodore's new services, it can be a great place The Observer I Pat Kusek 
to relax. meet people, take a Although Theodore's has expanded Its services to include a food study break and, of course, 
bar and video screens, these students show that It's still a great dance. 
place to dance. 

Bill Watterson
Calvin and Hobbes 



rediscovery 
SARAH VOIGT accent writer 

T
heodore's, the nightclub located upstairs in LaFor­tune Student Center, is a great place to discover or rediscover this year. Theodore's caters to the needs and desires of the student body with innovative services such as a food bar and video screens. This year, more than ever, Theodore's provides an exciting new dimension to the social scene on campus. 
On weekends Theodore's Is booked with a variety of DJs who together try to accomo­date everyone's musical taste. They range In style from top 40 to progressive music. Noel Murtha, reservation manager of Theodore's says, "The different styles of DJs usually develop followings with certain groups of students." 
Various campus bands booked on the weekends also attract enthusiastic crowds. Tara O'Leary, student manager of Theodore's, says, "We will probably book more campus bands In the second semester when many have had more time to polish their acts." 
Theodore's, however, Is no longer exclusively a place to dance. The new food bar, lo­cated in the north alcove, of· 
fers students refreshing alter­
natives to cafeteria food. The 
updated menu includes non­
alcoholic "mocktails" of mar­
garitas and plna coladas, ex­
presso, cappuccino, subs, 
nachos, pizza bread sticks and 
crossiant sandwiches. 

On Sundays the food bar provides "all you can eat" spe­cials of tacos, subs or hotdogs and chilldogs. These last from 12-6 p.m. and cost only two dollars. Michelle Burkart, cater­Ing manager of Theodore's, reports, "Attendance for the Sunday food bars has been good, but we hope to see a greater showing of off-campus students in the future." 
Imagine fixing and eating your meal at a leisurely pace while watching professional football games or videos on one of the two large screen televisions. Sound like a wel­come change from the hectic pace and unimaginative menu of the dining hall? 

Not only Is Theodore's open Friday and Saturday nights from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., It Is open Thursdays from 8 p.m. to I a.m. as well. O'Leary says, "Students often come to Theodore's to relax and watch The Cosby Show along with the other Thursday night shows." Also on Thursdays (when sit­




















( 


Viewpoi

Tuesday, November 17, 1987 
Co-ed housing Do co-educational dor11 
deserves a chance Many options ~vailable for co-ed hous1ng
! Students at Notre Dame often complain that interaction 
There has been much discussion comes up, many students say they
between males and females on campus is difficult and hin­
in recent years about the possibility are for it. But when they are asked
dered by the current single-sex dorm policy. 
and feasiblity of Notre Dame having if their dorm should be the one to
University President Father Edward Malloy has created 
co-educational housing. Students change, most of those same students
a task force on residentiality to address, among other things, 
have discussed it, the administra­answer "no." There would be
"the quality, sufficiency and variety of living facilities for tion has thought about it, and cur­several complications to renovatingundergraduate and graduate students." rently Father Edward Malloy's an existing dorm into a co-ed one. The institution of co-educational dormitories, currently Task Force on Residentiality is con­One only need remember the being discussed by this task force, would address both student sidering it. I believe this issue is im­Howard controversy to realize how and administrative concerns. portant and that it is time for a more important these dorms mean to the thorough public discussion to debate people who live in them. But if the
The clearest advantage of co-ed dormitories is the oppor­
the benefits and flaws of co-ed University were to announce its in­
tunity they offer for friendship between the sexes. The 
housing. tentions enough time in advance,
camaraderie that exists now within each dorm is built on 
students would be able to adjust to
little things, like going to dinner and watching TV. These are 
Daniel Cahill the situation. 
a direct result of proximity. The co-ed dorm would provide chances for male-female friendships to develop through pres­
The University has a lot of prop­
ently existing dorm activities and also add other positive guest column erty that is available for develop­dimensions to life at Notre Dame. ment but, obviously, new buildings
Traditional events that create hall spirit can still take place As a junior last fall, I was for­cost a great deal of money. If the in co-ed dormitories. These dorms may participate in inter­tunate to participate in the Notre University were to make it a priority hall athletics and create new traditions. Dame London Program. I lived in that co-ed housing on campus should 
Security problems now facing women's dorms on campus the West Two Hotel, a building which be available, then at least future stu­
housed strictly Notre Dame students dents could have that opportunity.
would not be as great in co-ed dorms. A mixed dorm popu­
and staff. There were 27 female stu­A building on campus would make
lation represents a less vulnerable target for the criminal 
dents, 25 male students, three resi­it more convenient to get to and from 
element. 
dent assistants (one female and two class and allow residents to still be
Co-ed dorms could immediately include the mixed-class 
male), and a female rectress. Wo­close to mainstream campus activ­
aspect of the present hall system by starting with an equal men lived on the first and third floors ity. There are students who are notallotment of seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen. and men lived on the second and happy living in a single sex dorm campus living could be more organ­The University parietals policy, which presumably would fourth floors. A resident assistant or yet they cannot move off campus be­ized, safe, and possibly less expen­be enforced in co-ed dorms as well as single-sex dorms, would the rectress lived on each floor as cause they don't have a car, they sive. ensure that students could enjoy the same measure of privacy well. are too involved in campus organi­Of course there are many difficul­if males and females were separated by floor or wing. The experience of living with zations or athletics, they don't want ties to these proposals. It has been 
female students was excellent. Our to cook and clean for themselves yet, mentioned that students would notCo-ed dormitories should be given a chance at Notre Dame, 
rooms were much closer together, or they cannot afford it. An on­want to give up their dorm for thisusing the same system of admission and class distribution 
and I was able to spend more time campus co-ed dorm could alleviate change. The building of a new dormthat is currently used for single-sex dorms. The advantages 
with women in both the private these problems. Whether or not would take years. Having an officialof incrt!ased interaction between male and female students 
rooms and the public ones <TV there are enough students who want off-campus dorm is just one more
along with the other positive influences co-ed dormitories lounge, kitchen, etc). Just seeing one to live in such a dorm (say 200-300) chance for University to wield its in­will have on community life make co-ed dorms a logical another in the hall or on the stairs which could make the creating of fluence over its students. There are development at Notre Dame. enhanced our relationships. In the such a facility advantageous, is people who claim that the single sex beginning of the semester it seemed something that needs to be ascer­dorms are great because of the a little unusual, but gradually it be­tained. guaranteed privacy men and women came a minor detail. When you see on campus have. The question of someone doing homework at 3 a.m. how parietals are to be handled must 
"The co-educational 
or waiting in line for the shower at be answered as well. 8 a.m., you can't help but realize that housing in London I think that co-ed housing could men and women are very similar. exist and still follow the University's 
-The Observer 
helped to break down
The co-ed housing in London helped rules. Privacy could be maintained to break down some of the male­some of the male­by having men and women live on female barriers and lowered the separate floors. The bathrooms and 
female barriers and
defense mechanisms of many showers would be on each floor as people. I cannot speak for everyone lowered the defense well. If people want privacy they can 
On a weekly basis The Observer will select an issue 
that is of interest to our community. In order to pres­
in the program, but I believe that shut their door. P arietals could still 
mechanisms of many
ent different views on the issue, columns will be 
most of the participants improved exist. Parietals exist in the London their relations with and their knowl­people." Program as do all the policies in Du edge of the opposite sex under this Lac. It may surprise some to know
solicited from the community, including members of 
the administration, faculty and students. In addition 
that parietals exist off-campus asarrangement. ------------­
to these contributions, The Observer will also com­
Now one might claim that this sys-The third proposal may not seem well. The table of contents page of tem could exist in England but never workable but it would probably Du Lac states: ··This booklet con­here. I disagree and I would like to decrease the cost of making a co-ed tains the codes, rules, regulations 
ment on the issue. 
The Observer welcomes letters to the Editor con­
put forth three proposals that could dorm and it would certainly and policies which establish the of­
cerning the opinions presented on these and other 
be considered. First, renovate a cur­decrease the time before such a ficial parameters for student life at rent dorm into a co-ed one. Second, building could be built. Although Notre Dame. These standards have build a new dorm on campus prop­many men and women live off­been formulated as appropriated by 
issues. The Observer, however, reserves the right to 
edit all letters, and brevity is a criterion for publica­
erty that would be co-ed. Third, pur­campus in houses and apartments, the Academic Council, the Campus
tion. You may address the letters to The Observer, 
chase property off-campus, apart­there are some disadvantages to Life Council, and the respective ad­ments or townhomes, that would living there. If the University were ministrative officers of the Univer­serve as an official co-ed dorm. to purchase some type of housing sity and are binding on all Notre Everytime the co-ed housing issue and administer to its upkeep, off-Dame students. It is the students' 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

Doonesb1 
IKNOPJPJH.

Editorial Board Operations Board 
TH/?aJGH, PAt

Ihe Observer 
RJF~IUITHn ! &U~V6Wf
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . Kev1n Becker Busmess Manager Bnan Murray 
! HORSt 
Managmg Editor .. Mark Pankowski AdvertiSing Design Manager... . . Dav1d Culligan News Editor .. Chns Bednarski Advertising Manager Melinda Chapleau News Editor ... . . ... J1m R1ley Production Manager ... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .. Chns Murphy PrOJ8Cts Manager . Mark Mclaughlm
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor Denn1s Corngan Systems Manager Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor M1chae1 Naughton Controller ... Tracy Schmaele
the admimstration of 811her 1nSt1tut1on The News 1s repor1«1 as accurately and objectively as 
Samt Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cenmele Graph1c Arts Manager Laura Stanton
poss1ble. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op•mon of the m8jonty of the Ed1torial Board 
Photo Editor J1m Carroll
Commentanes. letters and the InSide Column present the v1ews of the" authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the school community. and the free express1on of vary1ng opiniOns on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November3, 1988 

nt 
page 6-7 



ns have a place at Notre Dame? 
Co-ed dormitories will benefit all students 
When my father went to Notre which have our level of spirit be­Dame in the 1950's, the only women tween dorms. Both men and wo­to be found were across the way at men's dorms have unique identities Saint Mary's. For them, an all-male and each dorm gains strength from campus was the norm and somehow this identity. This is not to say that they managed to meet and carry on a co-ed dorm would lack spirit, but a normal social life. In those days, a co-ed dorm would create a differ­women were not allowed in the dorm ent character. And perhaps the Uni­
rooms. My father's mother was not versity needs to add a little charac­
even allowed to see if her son kept ter. There is still a need for more his Sorin room tidy. Much has interaction among men and women changed with the admittance of wo­which the single sex dorm inhibits. men in the early 1970's. The Univer­sity is now moving toward an almost I am worried about the possibility equal ratio of men and women. The of getting married. What is going to two new women's dorms under con­happen when I find myself living 
struction attest to the University's with a women? I am ignorant of the commitment to equality in numbers. ways of women. For instance, how Quoting a famous cigarette com­long does it take them to get ready mercial, "You've come a long way to go out in the morning? Or more baby." But now that we have an in­importantly, what do they look like crease in women, do we also have in the morning? Personally, I am to live in the same dorm as them? not a pretty sight. What about bath­room behavior? Is it seat up or seat Bob Carroll down? Actually co-ed dorms would probably not solve these burning questions. More importantly though, guest column men and women would come into contact with each other on a more regular basis. Men and women The issue of co-ed dorms is a hot wouldn't be as isolated from each topic at the moment. There is a other. It would begin to break down Presidential Task Force on Residen­the barriers between the sexes; per­
tiality currently looking into the pos­haps girls will have more male sibility of co-ed dorms, among other friends and guys would develop girl issues involving residence. The idea friends. of living under the same roof as a female is new to me since I grew up Now that co-ed dorms have been 
with two brothers and no sisters. I considered, how does it fit with the don't know if I am warped now or if University's concept of residen­I am the lucky beneficiary of not tiality? having sisters. This is my fourth First and foremost, Notre Dame 
year on campus having to live under is Catholic. We are all aware of this the current conditions. I have a 
orientation. This means that a rule feeling that most people will want such as parietals is here to stay. It the University to initiate co-ed is hard to believe that the University dorms. And, although I am not op­would move from this position. So if posed to the action, I am not so sure the University moved to implement it will have much impact. co-ed dorms, it would still be a 
restricted form. But the issue of co­
Some women might roll their eyes ed dorms is not hinged on parietals when they hear this, but there is alone. The dorm would most likely something to be said about an all­be segregated by floors. Therefore, male "Spartan" lifestyle. There is a men and women would be living 
certain camaraderie that is closer to each other, but not really 
developed in the dorms. My amongst each other. I see the big­girlfriend refers to this camaraderie gest benefit of co-ed dorms coming as "male bonding." A single sex from the fact that men and women dorm is a place where men can do would work together on social, ath­what they want, say what they want, letic, academic, and spiritual activ­and just hang out together. If men ities. I hope people point to these had hair to let down, the all male reasons when supporting co-ed dorm is the place to do it. It is noth­dorms. ing personal towards women. To be honest with you, I wish I Likewise, I assume women want the lived in a co-ed dorm. It would make same time together to live in the ab­my walk home shorter and warmer sence of males. A time to take their after dropping off my girlfriend. hair out of curlers and wear no 
makeup. Bob Carroll is a senior Accounting 
We have great tradition here at major and a resident assistant in Notre Dame. There are few schools Grace Hall. 
responsibility to be aware of these expectations and conduct them­selves accordingly as members of the Notre Dame community. All the rules and regulations, codes, etc., 
are in effect for graduate and under­graduate students on and off campus. Responsible behavior is ex­pected of Notre Dame students wherever they may be." While some rules on visitation of the opposite sex are difficult to enforce off-campus, the concept of co-ed housing does not necessitate the elimination of parie­tals, whether one agrees with them or not. 
I think a co-ed facility should exist for juniors and seniors. I believe that enough students would be interested in such an arrangement as to make it feasible. It would not force anyone to do something they didn't want to do. 
The single sex dorm system could continue to thrive as it does now. I limit the co-ed arrangement to juniors and seniors because I believe it would be helpful for new students to live in single sex dorms for a couple of years before deciding on such a change. One of the benefits of the dorm system today is that freshmen and seniors live together. Freshmen look to the upperclas­smen for leadership, and upperclas­smen enjoy the opportunity to set an example. I do not think a co-ed dorm would destroy this element of on­campus residency. 
I think that co-ed housing should be made available for students in the future. It is our duty to look out 
•ry 
for the interests of the students of tomorrow. It is the University's re­sponsibility to be mindful of the changing world in which we live. Six­teen years ago, this University began accepting women. Many changes were made and the af~er­
"It is our duty to look out for the interests of the students of tomor­row. It is the Univer­sity's responsibility to be mindful of the changing world in which we live." 
effects on male-female relations are still being felt. But the situation has improved greatly and will continue to do so. Co-ed housing could con­tinue to develop these relations un­der the traditional values of this Uni­versity. 
With the creation of various Task Forces under the new administra­tion, everyone of us is in a position to influence the future course of events here at Notre Dame, partic­ularly on the subject of co­educational housing. Please let your voice and opinion be heard. Whatever side you fall on, it is im­portant that you speak up now. 
Daniel Cahill is a senior English/Pre­Med major. 
IT '1t:XII?C. 60/NG 
PeT FOOl). THE 

GEEZ! II(J(QCOUW '­
/DlS£5?

MY!Nllt/57/?Y's 
8l/51N~S 150/A/NW 

I 7Cl/... 7HAT 7D A
YOU IN

'XJOS.I YOU CAN'T 
(}(JTRJ6HT BY me 

TOTAL-STRANGER.?
RACING~

47 7H&Y [X) 7D 
KAN5A5cnY. 

H&Y, Y()(}'/?e NOT 
MOB.'-. lUll?£!), AI?& YOU? 

Garry Trudeau 
TOTAU.Y. 8I.JT 
THANKS. 
\ r.­


Quote of the Day 
"Between friends there is no need for justice, but people who are just still need the quality of friendship." 
Aristotle 

384-322 B.C. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, November 17, 1987 


Tickets 
continued from page 12 
today. Those tickets should be­come scarce by the time sop­homores and graduate stu­
dents  purchase  theirs  
Wednesday.  
Meanwhile,  back  to  the  

shorter-than-usual lines. 
This season's first-in-line honors go to Pat Walsh, a fresh­man (that's right, a freshman) from Sorin. He arrived Sunday morning at 2:30 for the seat next to the doors of Gate 10. 
"My brother said he would get me a senior application if I camped out for him," said Walsh, explaining his pres­ence. 
At 12:15 p.m. Monday, Pat Walsh was finally relieved by his brother Dan, a senior at St. Ed's. That adds up to 21 hours, 
45 minutes in line for Pat. "It's well worth it to see Rivers' last seson," he said. 
Pat Walsh did not have any company in line until 2 p.m. Sunday. Lori Shemanski, a senior from Howard, arrived, followed five minutes later by Pieri and roommate Jamey Rappis, who brought with them a radio and a television. 
"I want the good seats," said Shemanski, who also was get­ting tickets for two of her friends. "My friends don't really care where they sit, but I do." 
These four students were the only ones in line when Irish head coach Digger Phelps made an appearance at 5:30 
p.m. Sunday. Phelps took down their names and told them that, because of their dedication to his team, the students would be his guests for the NCAA Tourn­ament in the spring. 
Even as late as 6 a.m. Mon­day only nine students were in line. That's when Mike "Fuz­zy" Thurston and Paul Gruber of Off Campus arrived to claim the tenth spot. 
"We were going to come out last night," said Thurston. "Instead we went to Tivoli's for dime beers, so we went to bed and came out in the morning." 

n.a...-Notre o.meoffice, located on the third floor of Lafonune Stu· ct.nt c.nt.r, ecc:epta claalfled elhert....IQ from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 1t1rougt1 Frtday. The~ Slllnt IUry'a offlce, local*' on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday througtl Frtday. DMdllne tor next-day claaslfledsls 3 p.m. All classified• must
Classifieds be prepMS, el~ In pen10n Of by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five c:tw.a.n perday. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 

TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n· 7406 
TYPING 2n-1131 or 237·1848 

MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; 2n-1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
MRS.COKER,2~7008 

Chimes is now accepting plays, poems, and short stories. Submit to Chimes, Engl. Dept. Am 303 Madeleva Hall 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL KEVIN AT 239­
5303. ··--····--····---··--·--· 
Hol1day Jobs· N.D. & S.M.C. Take home a resume to help with holiday job-search. Office or phone appointments ..$25-$40. KEY CAREER SERVICES .. 282·1697. 
' LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND:Camp Beverly Hills sunglasses 1n the Engineering bwld1ng. Call Siobhan at 288·5229. 
LOST..I LOST MY ROYAL BLUE VUAR· NETS SATURDAY AT THE 'BAMA GAME. THESE SUNGLASSES HAVE SERIOUS SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME. SO I DEFINITELY WILL MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE IF YOU CALL AMY AT £271·0575 TO RETURN THEM. SENIMENTALLY I WILL BE BETTER OFF, WHILE MONETARILY $$$$$$$$$$ YOU'LL BE MUCH BET· TEA OFFII PLEASE CALL AMY AT £27Hl575. 
Lost..keys. about 5 on the chain, wh1ch has a religious 1nscnption call Jesse at 3352..thank you 
Lost..keys, with a relig1ous incription on the charm please call Jesse at 3352 
.... ······················· 

LOST: NOTRE DAME CLASS RING: WTS INITIALS INSCRIBED REWARD OFFERED PLEASE CALL 271-<1480 
LOST: BLUE O.P. WALLET CONTAIN· lNG DRIVER'S LICENSE OF TIM GRIEVE AND AROUND $40 SOMETIME SAURDAY 111t4. IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT x3111. 
LOST(?):MEN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH. NOV. 12, 4:()()..6:30 PM, BETWEEN OIL· LON AND ACC COURT 1. BELIEVE TO HAVE BEEN "BORROWED" FROM JACKET ON COURT 1. GRADUATION GIFT: PLEASE RETURN! REWARD! NO ?'S ASKED. MATT X1629. 
lOST: RED RIMMED FOSTER GRANTS aAMA GAME X4333 
LOST: Two jackets were lost (or taken) Saturday from a tailgater behind lhe backstop on Green Field. One was wh~e with blue sleeves and the other was dark grey with a red Hning. If you happened to pick either of them up, please call Jim It 1459. 
MISSING: My friend came in from out of town and someone took his size 48 denim coat from the coat room at Senior Bar. If you have ~ please call me so I can get ~ back 1o him and restore NO's good name. Mike 27Hl573. 
BLUE BACKPACK LOST FRIDAY, SOUTH DINING HALL. LAW BOOKS. CALL JOEL 234-8358. 
LOST: AQUA-MARINE WITH DIAMOND RING & AMETHYST ENGAGEMENT RING BY THE STADIUM ON SUNDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL HEATHER 284-5182. 
FOR RENT 

Lease thia 2BR apartment now fof spring -andmove In anytime. S32!>tno. inc:ludee uttlltiea. c.ll 232·9239. 
Now ehowing fof ~ lease. tiBR, 2 bd1 houM on bua line. Cel 232· 82311. 
I AM SUBLEASING MY APARTMENT LOCATED AT 820 NOTRE DAME AV.. IF INTERESTED. PLEASE CALL XAVIER AT 288·8923. 
LITTLE MJS..·HAPPY 21 s1 BIRTHDAY coming up soon ... Nov. 2411!1 
WANTED 
TRAVEL PROMOTERS WANTED EARN HIGH COMMISSIONS e FREE TRIPS! FANTASnC BUSINESS EXPE· RIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME! Meet people and gain 1'8C0gnlllon on your campua •• an Entet1lllnment Tour• Spring BrNk Trip Campua Repreaen­tative. Calf loll frM 1-8!)().525-1638 and ••k lor Ent-lnment Toure. 
Need ride to Cincinnati,OH for Thanks· giving Call Jim x1216 
NEEDED· PRINTER; EXPERIENCED, PART·TIME EVENINGS. FOR A.B. DICK 360 PRESS AND BINDERY. HOURLY AND BONUS. CALL 289·69n. 
.................... 
I NEED A RIDE HOME FOR THANKS· 
GIVING NEAR SENECA, ILLINOIS. IT'S 
SMALL, SO IF YOU'VE NEVER HEARD 
OF IT, IT'S BETWEEN JOLIET AND OT· 
TAWA WEST ON ROUTE 80. CALL 
KATHY AT 3590 IF YOU CAN HELP. 
I need a ride to Penn State. Can you help me? Anne £21 26 
I need a ride to PHILA area leaving Fri 
111.10 and returning after Thanksgiving. Please call Colleen at 2537. Thanx! 
WANTED: RIDER TO WISCONSIN 12·3 to 12-8. 272-4814. 
Help!!! I need ride for TWO to: Wuhlngton DC area lor Thankaglvlng ..union at home! able to leave Tues. ntght or Wed. morning. Will share usual Please call Susan at 283·3838 
I need a student to create a collage of old newspaper clippings. I will pay the right person handsomely. Need lor Christmas. Call Debbie 2n·3857 
Need ride to Downers Grove. llfor break. Mike 4607 
BALTIMOREOC ·NEED RIDE· 1222 
Mario LeMieux's protege needs a ride to Pitt on Tue., 111t41 To help, call AI at ·3579. (Will spl~ costs) 
RIDE NEEDED to MNPLSST. PAUL OR MADISON. Anytime after 9:30AM Tues. Nov 24. Call 4016 ask for Jerry 
HELPI Ride needed to Hamsburg, PA for Thanksgiving. Can leave as early as Monday noon. Will share expenses. Call Mike 2037 or 2038. 
....................................................... 
FOR SALE 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeep• lor 144 through the U.S. government? Get the IIICta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7318. 
FOR SALE: AIRLINE TICKET. 
WASH. DC to SOUTHBEND, JAN. 10. 
CHEAP. CALL 2n·8264. 
PUPPIES 

Mother German Shepherd Must flll-oot ownership application 
Call PETE s1 239·5603 or 234-7 429 
MUST SELL ROUNDTRIP AIR. FROM SBN.·NYC LV.SAT. DEC19 RETURN SUN JAN11 £1791 
AIRLINE TIX TO NEWARK NEW JER· SEY T·GIVING BREAK. VERY CHEAP CALL WOODY AT 1644 
FOR SALE PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON HOBBY DEC 17 CHEAP! GREG x11n 
TICKETS 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME 
Big. Big CMh offered for BC GA's I'm 
holding your lamlly hostage 
Please call Chris X 1489 
NEED QA'S FOR PENN STATE. 272­
8308. 

NEED OA't FOR PENN STATE. 272­8308. 
SPYRO GYRA TICKETS Second Row· 
friends can't use them. At cost. Call Bob 
or leave message. 271-<1740 
.................... 
PENN ST nx FOR SALE. 282·29n 
For Sale: 2 Spyro Gira tix Call 283· 1063 for a deal that won't suck. 
Need NO-Penn State hckets. Call Bill at x4364. 
I NEED PENN ST TIX MIKE 1741 
NEED PENN ST. TIX's caLL 4793 
MIAMI plane ticket 
For ule 
Leaves South Bend Thursday. Nov. 26, 
returns Sunday. Nov. 29 
If interested call Sean at 2266 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT N[}SMC SUPPORT· EDUCATION· SOCIAL FOR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. WRITE TO BOX 194; NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
...................... 
WHY NOT ORDER A BIRTHDAY CAKE FOR THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE? CALL 283-2358 TODAY OR LOOK FOR WEDNESDAY'S AD 
Ride needed to Champaign. IL for Thanksgiving. Call Jeanne x21 17 or Bea x3462. 
REACH out to your friends abroad with a personal ad in 
FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH NEWSLETTER only 50 cents for up to 20 words!! buy as many 20·word blocks as you like'l write your ad, put~ WITH YOUR MONEY in an envelope in Mary Berge<Foreign Relations· matlbox and we'll do the rest. 
2 persons in need of ride to Albany.NY for turkey break. Got room, call Mo 284· 
5409 
NEED A RIDE TO L.A. CALIFORNIA FOR THANKSGIVING? Round·trip tix from Chicago ONLY $145.001 Call Susan 3879. 
Want to party at Penn State some weekend(not NO game)w~h some friends? Have a car? I'U ride with you and pey. Call Tom-3247. 
................................ RIDE 
NEEDED TO ROCHESTER NY FOR THHANKSGIVING CALL JOHN 2236 
SPRING BREAK '1111 SOUTH PADRE ISLAND Roundtrip Air " Chicago • Harlingen March 12-18 -S2IO $40 Non-Relundabla dapoaH due to: TravelrnoN Ofllc:a In uFortune by Niov. 25. Caeh or local Ct.ck ONLY F5Monclaye -I :30 am -7 pm Tueaday-Frldlly • 1:30 am-4:45 pm 
I NEED A RIDE TO EVANSVILLE. IN.. FOR THANKSGIVING. IF YOU ARE GOING TO OR NEAR THE EVANSVILLE AREA, PLEASE CALL BETH, £2801. I WILL SHARE EXPEN· SIVES. 
A young Scottish boy wishas to set the world record in receiving post cards. He Is terminally ill. Help htm by writing to UHie Buddy, P.O. Box 76, Paisley Renfrewhtre, Scotland, UK. Postage is 33 cents. 
AFTER BEING RUN OVER BY THE GATSBY-TYPE CAR, HE WAS RUSHED TO THE HOSP1TAL WILL HIS DREAM EVER COME TRUE? 
I need a ride to Kansas City, MO or anywhere within a 75 mile radius. Will share expenses. Please call Theresa at 2738. 
KIM EVAR[).·Happy belated birthday' Sorry I didn't get this in on ttme but you know me...and don, worry..you still heve a few good years left. Have funl Love, T 
ATTENTION BRIOOETS&COMMONS:ORDER MORE JACK&JIM ACTION IS COMING Kim K. I'd like to go canoeing wrth you again. ·Someone who likes how you paddle 

CILA 1 MeXICO Project meetmg Wednes· day. November 18. 7:30p.m. at the Cen· ter for Social Concerns. All welcome Call Mike at x1049 or Dan at 271·0804 for questions. 
TO THE GIRL WHO SAW ME GET PUSHED DOWN THE TUNNEL OF SEC. 30 RIGHT BEFORE HALFTIME: I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU AND ASK YOU A FEW VERY IMPORTANT QUESTIONS. THANKS A LOT! STEVE x1067 
Happy birthday 
THERESA HARRINGTON Yes. you. Miss birthday girl. We hope you had a happy 21st yesterday. Now if only we could join you in the bars... 
Love, 
Janice, Maureen, 
and Pete 
Yeah, but are you geeked? 
BUCKlE 
LOVES 
DUCKIE 
IT'S OCTOBER 21ST RIGHT?..·NO? WELL HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANYWAY SARAII AND GOOD LUCK WITH B· BALL LOVE, DAN 
TOM W HOW WAS THE WORM? 
Dear Aunt Florence: Thank you for finally coming to see me this weekend I I REALLY appreciated having you here. Love always, MM 
TO EVERYONE WHO MADE MY 21st BIRTHDAY THE BEST EVER, THANKS FOR REMINDING ME THAT YOU CAN RUN. BUT YOU CAN'T HIDE!! I LOVE YOU ALL EVEN MORE THAN TE· OVILLA SHOTS! LOVE. CARRIE 
Bland. Sorry we came by empty handed bul we hope !hiS makes up for 1t. You are a real Cutie! Happy Belated B1rthday! LJ and crew 
MISSY LAHREN'S BIRTHDAY IS ON NOVEMBER 24th-get exc1ted' Go to Senior Bar on Nov. 23 to celebrate the occasion! 
JUNIORS I 
JUNIORS I 
JUNIORS! 
SKI TRIP I 
SKI TRIP I 
SKI TRIP I 
JUNIORS I 
JUNIORS I 
JUNIORS I 
JUNIORS I SKI TRIP TO SCHUSS MTN. JAN 22-24 BE THERE I 
lncludu all lodging and mNia, lift Uckatll lor WMkend, & tranapo. Coat 1140. 
Slgnup now 1111 
JUNIORS I SKI TRIP SIGNUPS I TONITE I 
JR. CLASS OFFICE-2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 8·8 P.M. DEPOSIT OF $40 REQUIRED. 
JUNIORS I SKI SCHUSS I 
SIGNUP TONITE I 
SKI SCHUSS I 
JUNIORS I 
SKI SCHUSS I 
MELEAH • THANKS FOR A GREAT WEEKEND. LOVED THE PANGFORD, TAILGATER & ALL YOUR FRIENDS. ENJOY YOUR NEXT VISITOR. 
LOVE MAD 
TO THE TALL GODDESS In the long jean skirt & jacket who exchanged hellos wtne outside of stonehenge on mon. morning. I would love to meet youHall guy in light blue windbreaker. 
HELPIII Need ride to Penn St. this weekendill Can leave anytime. Will share expenses. Please call Sue X1451111 
HEY Y'ALLI have 1 plane ticketto Atlanta via Chicago O'Hare 1eav1ng Tuesday the 24th from Southbend Airport at 7:45 and arriv1ng in Atlanta around 1 1 :00. I have a test at 8:00 Tuesday and need to sell ~-It's a $300 flight. but call Matt D. at 1 1 55 and make an offer. 
Marc D. Soph., Thanks for being a nice guy Gal with walkman Sat. nite 
The 11th Commandment: XI: Thou sha~ HATE MIAMI! 
Do you want to maul Mtami? Do you want to bill the ·canes? Buy the official Hate Miami button:call 1310 to order one 
01d you know that SMOKING g1ves you lung cancer? She's cutting back ... No way..Mollie? Yep. 20 yrs. oJd..ao does that mean 20 shots. 20 cigarettes, or 20 men? That's right. today's MOLLIE BOYLAN'S btrthday. boys..be sure to drop by 623 P.E. and give her what she REALLY wants! 
Ride Needed to U.of Illinois THIS WEEKEND Nov.20·22 Will Pay Call Lynn "4297 
Quote of the year· "The mystique is gone from Notre Dame." -Joe Paterno 
JOHN. Happy 20 birthday! Get ready to celebrate. I'll bring the bubbles' I'm glad everything worked out and you're happy. I am too. You're very special to me. I LOVE YOU!!! M.S 
HEY BEAN DIP, BUNNI, CUBI, KRI5­TEN, & TO -I'M SORRY I MISSED THE TO SAT. PLEASE FORGIVE MEl SINCERELY, DRUNK N. STUPOR 
Brare Guy: uFort. lounga,lloor 1, 8 Wad. nltell Sorry ao generlc-cen't w~lt. thoi...Amy 
To KAT, THEO. MALIN!, NIKOS & AD· MIRERS: Thanks for everything You made my birthday at least unforgettable (esp. the GREAT ones). Leena 
HELP FOREIGN RELATIONS Give a peruvian a nde to Cleveland for Thanks· giv1ng" Call Ros1 at 3688 
To the amazing looking Notre Dame man with dark hair and large biceps who was hang1ng out at the bar at Bridget's on Fnday night: You drive me wild with pas· s1on. I don't know what did ~for me. but I haven't stopped thinking about you stnce. Maybe it was that handsome NO SWATCH you were sporting. Hope to see you again soon. Love you. The gorgeous blonde w~h blue eyes. 
Hey Loser, I just wanted to thank you for being there when I needed a friend· Thanks, one 
deep unpredictable 

ANYONE GOING TO BLOOMINGTON-IU THIS WEEKEND? CAN I HAVE A RIDE? ANGIE 284·5083 
••••KIMBO SARTORI••-YesfWe need 
a nde to St.Louis!..HUMBOLDT-Those 
fumes make my throat hurt·Really?l 
couldn't teii ... Ted Drewes·YUMI...of 
FINE YOUNG MEN...Anheiser 
Woosch...M&M-do ya wanna go to 
Dukes? WE DO· cause you are now a 
legal MARGARITA MAMMAl Happy B· 
day Woman I Love,K·baby P.S.Jack Clark 
sends his love 
SMURF·I'm 18 now but I won't ...till I know Who you are. Tiffany 
Sara Llebecher 
Happy Birthday 
from all your friends from Iowa We Wub 
Val 
PLEASE DRIVE ME HOME FOR TURKEY. CHICAGO OR WEST. 'BURBS PATTY SMC 4071. 
rESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO THIS WEEKEND.CALL ROSIE !:MC· 5201 
ACTION IS 21 TODAY ACTION IS 21 TODAY ACTION IS 21 TODAYIIIIIIIIII HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEV..FROM ALL OF THE HOGS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEV..WE LOVE YA(T,Z,LOPPER,SIGS,MC,RYE,HAM,SMIT) 
ROUND TRIP TICKET FOR SALE 
DEPART 25 NOV. S.B. 1 :09-NEWARK 
N.J.5:27 RETURN 29 NOV. NEWARK 6:30-S.B.lO:OOP.M. PRICE·$250 CALL 1758 JEFF 
Sorry you miMed us all last weel<, but now Ia your chance because MONARCH wiU bs at CHIP'S again tonight with . 50 slammers and $2 pitchers 
2 
R 
So I totally get shafted (jk) you better do 
lotso work and reserve some time for me 
on Fnday or else I might just have to 
ktdnsp you to Chicago. 
Love Me 
P.S. I understand. don't worry. 
But Cahill, I only sold you 1nto temporary servitude. And I really needed the money. Bill Webb 
Speaking of Sport• Speaking of Sporta Call 239·6400 between 1 0·1 1 p.m. to talk to NO sports. or national sports. 
Announetng the organizational meet1ng of the Zahm chapter of the HETEROSEXUALS OF NOOMC The agenda will include: 1) The discuss1on of Heterophobta 
2} University recognition 
3) Overcoming the Church's fears of nor· mal sex 4) ·Js the misstonary position passe? 
5) B11'th control · Are you playtng w1th a 
loaded gun? First meet1ng tn Am. I 34 
Dave (the dnver who doesn't watch porn flicks). go to the PW formal w1th me on Saturday? Kathy 
Cimanm Had a great t1me thiS weekend Maybe we could try tt agatn next weekend. We could try to grab another shuttle (s1gn) 'I'm busy" 
Hel.Pi, Neeo;.: Fiioe rOE'rrHER Pir. 
TSBURGH OR WHEELING.WVA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK! CALL SUE· SMC-5067 
To the Freshman with a lot of credtts How d1d your tesl go on Thurs? I would ltke to find out Wed Me at Ern1es 11 Hope 
to see you! 
·······•··•····· ····•·············•· .......... . 
NUDESKYDIVERS AND FRIENDS Thank you for making my 21 btrthday one ol the best days of my hfe ever I will always remember that day and you 
along w1th it. Love. Slap PS Y'ALL ARE AWESOME!I 
"""""ANGELA WIMMER""""" Just re· member IF ALL ELSE FAILS ... Love. an adm1rer 
HELP!I! I need nde to central PA for T· giVIng Break Will share driv1n' and gas$$$. Great conversationalist' Please call Guy at x1598. It's nght along Ate. 22!!1 
To the guy weanng a baseball cap on the 1 1th floor of the library last Tuesday n~ght (Nov 10th). You were sitting on the floor of aisle OS 1 A8 to OS 36 19. I was the g1rt tn the black coat and blue scart stanng at you from the elevators. Who are you? If interested. respond here.·RB 
I need a ride to Trenton area for Th. break. Call Ed at 283·1602. 
RESORT HOTELS, Crulutlnea, Air· llnu & AmuHITient Parka NOW ac· ceptlng appllc.tlonalor aummer jobs, lnternahlpa and car-poaltlona. For lnlormaUon & appllc.tion; wrHa Na­tiONII Collegiate Recreation, P.O. Box 8074, HIHon Heed laland, SC 211138. 
Boss "Dutch" Sullivan sez "Only a FEW people have touched the the bone..." 
SPRINGBREAK '1111 Campua -Sorority • Freternlty Rep Organize 7 Day Sailing Charter• Ft. uuderdala to Bahamaa Comml..lon & Free CruiM Call Captain William• 1850 SW 23rd Terrace, Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305) 583-0202 Anytime 
The Lux farewell tour has begun 
DB I had to study; couldn't work. BUT I was up 'til 4 a.m. anyway ... You should've callad! We'll heve to make a Dennys Date. and I promise to reveal my "hal· lowad" inner secret(s) as long as I hear some of yours! 
Rj(the CE) 
To thai beautrtul girt in 414 AS. you light up my me everytime I see your big beau· tiful eyes. A Guy from HC 
To thet sexy twin in AS 419 I'm really looking forward to meet1ng you again. Love B Guy from HC 
Need ride lor two to northern N.J. for Thankagiving.Will leave whenever. Only need ride there. Call Kevin £1496 

•


Fall clubs grow in WinS, participants 
With the traditional gap between fall and winter club sports upon us, it's time to take one last look at the fall results--and what an autumn it was for Irish clubs. 
Teams boasted increased membership, competi­tive play and some of the best records in recent history. All of those results left Irish club director Rich O'Leary satisfied that the club system is still going strong. 
"Overall, it's been a good fall," O'Leary said, "not only in winning, but in participation. Involve­ment in all teams has been higher than in the past. They seem to have a good group of officers, and they were able to travel and field a team wherever they went." 
To say it was a good fall may be a gross under­statement. For example, take these results: 
•The Rugby Club finished with an 8-1 ledger with big wins over arch-rivals Boston College, Michigan and Northwestern. 
"We had a lot of good individual players," Club President Tim O'Connell said, "but this is one of the first years we played that well together as a team. Also, we didn't have any injuries, and that played a big part in it." 
•The Sailing Club capped its season with a third­place finish in the Area A Regatta to qualify for the Timme Angstrem Regatta in Chicago over Thanksgiving break. Earlier, the club took seventh in the Cary-Price Regatta in Michigan. 
•The Water Polo Club recorded a 5-3 campaign, twice as many wins as last season. The club downed Boston College, Boston University and Yale during a successful East Coast trip. 
Greg Guffey 
Club Corner 


•The 
Women's Soccer Club finished with a 5-3-3 mark, including a late-season surge where the Irish won three and tied one of their last four games. 

•The 
Rowing Club faced tough competition through­out the season, but managed to put together some good performances. The men's squad took seventh in the 38-team field at the Head of the Charles in Boston, earning an invitation to return next year. The women's team, meanwhile, concluded its season with two gold medal showings at the Head of the Tennessee. 


•The 
Boxing Club held its annual novice tourney in preparation for the famed Bengal Bouts with com­petition in seven weight classes. Club ·President Kevin Duggan said after the tourney that the par­ticipants have a legitimate shot in the Bengals. 

•The 
Women's Golf Club took third in the 12-team Notre Dame tourney, and finished second in a five­team field in Evansville and seventh in a 12-team field at Purdue. 


With the continued exceptional performances by Irish clubs, several students appear to be interested in forming new clubs. Some of the potential new clubs include racquetball, squash, synchronized swimming and women's lacrosse. 
"We try to act according to the interests of the student body," O'Leary said. "We don't start the club for them--they have to build interest them­selves. It's the exception when we have a problem. We're fortunate we have a student body that can do this." 
The Gymnastic Club is busy preparing for its up­coming season. While the season does not officially begin until after semester break, the team is already practicing five days a week. 
The women's squad finished 5-1 last year, while the men's squad was 4-2. 
Ellis 
continued from page 12 
tend Notre Dame. "It was dif­
ficult picking (Notre Dame) 
over Illinois because they have 
been with me for four years, 
since I was in the eighth grade. 
"I want to be an all­American by my sophomore year," Ellis said of goals with the Irish. "and I want to play on the Pan-Am team. I think Digger will help me get to the pros. "I'm going to have to work to make myself quicker so that I can play outside bet­ter. They tell me I run the floor well, but I want to work to run it better." 
Ellis' high school coach, Bennie Stewart, was unsure which school the star of his squad would commit to when the conference began. Ellis had letters to UCLA, Illinois and Notre Dame on a table in front of him and opted for the Irish. 
Ellis cited Notre Dame assis­tant coach John Shumate's abil­ity to teach big men and Notre Dame's academic prowess as factors in his decision. 
'I think LaPhonso will be to us what Patrick Ewing was to Georgetown," Phelps said of the signing. "I think he's the type of kid who will work that hard." 
In the state championship game against Chicago's King High School (led by last year's standout recruit Marcus Liber­ty), Ellis scored 27 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. Street & Smith's tabbed Lincoln seventh in its preseason high school poll. 
Ellis joins 6-11 Keith Tower of Coraopolis, Pa., and 6-1 El­mer Bennet as Irish early sig­nees. 
Elite 
continued from page 12 
trip to Charlottesville, Virginia for the meet. 
Such an honor is equivalent to a basketball team making it to the "Sweet Sixteen" in post­season competition. The Irish needed to finish in the top three at the District IV Meet to qualify as a team or settle for claiming the remaining five spots open to individuals. 
Earlier in the season this may have seemed like a distant goal. The team lost several key runners to injury, including senior Mike Smoron, sopho­more Tom O'Rourke and Steve Lunney, who were expected to be among the top runners for the Irish. 
The Irish did not even win a single invitational meet, al­though they ended the season second in the state behind In­diana. 
"They had a lot of excuses to fail," said Piane, "but they did not quit. They had reasons to pack it away but every single meet they have gone out and improved." 

"From both a financial and an operating standpoint, Inland stands head and shoulders above the rest..." 
BARRON'S 
October 13, 1986 
We invite you to stop by, meet us, and talk about opportunities in Sales, Marketing and Purchasing. 
UPPER LOUNGE UNIVERSITY CLUB November 17, 1987 6:00 -8:00 p.m. 
All NDISMC Seniors and MBAs are welcome. If available, please bring resume. 
SH,qPJNG THE :=UTLII<E • • -• Inland Steel 
il suilsuhilry of llllillld S!Pt•lll)(hrstrres l11c 
Tuesday, November 17, 1987

page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs ND runs towards 'big leagues' 
Earl Bruce was fired Monday as head football coach of Ohio State, a few hours after he had said he had no intention of stepping down. Athletic Director Rick Bay, Bruce's staunchest defender in recent days, said that he himself had resigned as a result. Bay said Bruce's firing was effective after the end of Saturday's regular-season final game at Michigan. -Associated Press 
16th-ranked Indiana and 18th-ranked Tennessee unofficially will play in the Peach Bowl in Atlanta on Jan. 
2. The announcement will be officially made Saturday. ­
Associated Press 

Syracuse, runner-up last season to national champion Indiana, has been chosen the No. 1 team in The Associated Press' preseason college basketball poll. -Associated Press 
The Denver Broncos defeated the Chicago Bears 31-29 in Monday Night Football action at Mile High Stadium in Denver. -Associated Press 
IH football equipment return will be today at Gate 9 of the stadium for the following teams: Off-campus-6 p.m., Zahm-6:30, Alumni-7, Dillon-7:30, Fisher-S, Flanner-8:30, Pangborn-9, Stanford-9: 30. Any player who missed the first return date and needs to return all or any piece of equipment may do so at any of the above times. There will be a $5 fee for any full sets of equipment returned after each team's designated date. -The Observer 
The deadline for rosters for the open flag football tournament is today. Sign-ups will be held in the NVA office and the dining halls. -The Observer 
0-C Hockey will have its first practice tomorrow at 1 
a.m. Try to sign release forms at the NVA office before then. -The Observer 
Pat Murphy, the first-year Notre Dame baseball coach, is forgoing a winter trip to Taiwan with the Dutch national baseball team to focus on recruiting for Notre Dame. Murphy, who coached the Dutch team last summer, also has been offered to coach the Dutch squad in the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics. -The Observer 



Layoff slows women's tennis 
By STEVE MEGARGEE  defeated Mulvihill in the Mid­ In doubles action, the seeded  
Sports Writer  west Invitationals in Septem­ pair of Cahill and Dasso lost in  
After having no competition  ber. A win in the semis would have sent Cahill to the Rolex  the first round, and Tolstedt-Pacella team  the was  
since the North Star Confer­ National  Tournament  in  eliminated in the second round.  
ence tournament on Oct. 10-11, the Notre Dame women's ten­nis team had a tough time get­ February. Cahill now will be ranked second or third in the NCAA Midwest Region going  "I felt like our doubles play could have been much better," 

ting back in the swing of things into the at last weekend's Rolex Regional Qualifiers. 
In the open singles and doubles tournament held at Bloomington, Ind., three of the four Irish singles players fell in the first round of the 64­player draw. One doubles team lost in the first round, and the other was eliminated in the second round. 
"They've been hitting every day, and haven't taken a break, so it wasn't like there was a layoff," said Irish coach Mic­hele Gelfman. "The fact we didn't have any competition since mid-October hurt us." 
In the singles draw, senior Michelle Dasso, sophomore Stephanie Tolstedt and fresh­man Kim Pacella were eliminated in the opening round, all losing in straight sets. 
"Stephanie played an excel­lent match," said Gelfman. "I don't think the scores were in­dicative of her performance. They used regular scoring in the tournament instead of no add, and that puts more pres­sure if you're not used to that style. 
Freshman Ce Ce Cahill, the top seed in the tournament, was the only Irish player to advance ~ past the first round. Cahill placed third, losing to Kelly Mulvihill of Indiana, 4-6, 6-2, 6­2, in the semifinals. Cahill had 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team has come a long way in two short years. And according to Irish coach Dan Ryan, his team is only a step away from competing in the big leagues. 
The Irish finished a respec­table 14th in the NCAA district meet Saturday in Bowling Green, but must keep improv­ing in order to compete with the powerhouses of NCAA cross country. Crossing that line to a big-time contender will be a tough order, but Ryan thinks his young team is up to the challenge. 
"With time, we'll be there," Ryan said. "I think it's just a matter of getting more experi­ence and running some more big races. I think it's been a little intimidating. They're not used to finishing behind teams like Wisconsin and other Big 10 teams after running against some smaller schools as a club." 
Wisconsin won the meet with 56 points followed by Indiana with 97. As opposed to the men's competition, only the top team automatically qualifies for the NCAA finals. The top three teams advance in the men's division. 
Junior co-captain Theresa Rice led the Irish harriers with a 25th-place finish in a time of 
17:50.6. That time set a new Irish cross country record. Terry Kibelstis took 72nd with a clocking of 18:43.04, 3:04 bet­ter than last year. Senior co-captain Julia Merkel took 76th with a time of 18:47.2. Linda Filar and Kathleen Lehman rounded out the scoring in 97th and 102nd positions respective­ly. Wendy Murray and Jenny Ledrick also competed, taking the !20th and !24th spots. 
"We were the first non­scholarship school to finish," Ryan said, "but we've got the talent. Last year, the time gap was 2:59 and we finished 20th. This year, it was 1:24 and we were 14th. We met all of our goals except one--winning the North Star Conference meet. We were in the top five at the Indiana Intercollegiates win­ning the Little State, won the Detroit Invitational and finished in the top 15 at dis­tricts." 


Swim teams keep up with Tide 
By MARK KOWALSKI Sports Writer 
On the second anniversary of the Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday afternoon, the Notre Dame swim team faced the 16th ranked Alabama Crimson Tide in its first regular-season meet of the year. 
The Crimson Tide men's team swam to a 120-92 victory, while the Lady Tide compiled a 127-88 win. Undoubtedly the fastest team on the Irish schedule this year, the Tide showed why it is nationally ranked by breaking 13 pool records. All previous men's 
season. said Gelfman. 
to 

PhredJy Phart 
I
Love Mom, Dad Marcy~ Vicki, Missy Diane 


KEVIN ** 
*
*
* 
O'BRIEN *
*
*
*..
IS ...... 21 .. 
*.. 
* 
TODAY! **
*
*..
**************** 
records were broken as well as three women's records. 
The high level of competition pushed the Irish swimmers to new personal bests as they showed improvement across the board over last years times. 
Senior John Koselka came within .75 seconds of his own university record, but took third-place in the 50-yard frees­tyle. Freshman Paul Godfrey posted a 9:57.85 time in the 1000-yard freestyle for one of the Irish bests, and classmate Jim Byrne made a smashing debut in the 200-yard individual medley and 200-yard breaststroke. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC AaDITORICIM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
T1CKI:Ta AVM.MU. AT 1W: C1111C -IIOJICifOICZ. 
--(NWI AltD _,. 
IIUAGI~.....,.-­
(III<IWft).AitDJJI.'ClA
--..­
1-21t-ZM-tll0 
Senior Amy Darlington swam to two third-place finishes in the 200-yard butter­fly and 200-yard freestyle, as well as capturing a secnd-place finish in the 500-yard freestyle. Freshman Jean Kelly added to the distance-freestyle squad, taking third behind Darlington in the 500-yard freestyle and capturing second place in the 100-yard freestyle. Other Irish highlights came from junior Tracy Johnson, who swam in the 50-and 100-yard freestyle events and recorded two first­place finishes, as well as finished just .40 seconds behind the leaders in the 50-yard free. 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT E CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, NIGHTWINDS (NILES 
NO NORTH VILLAGE MAll). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R."S (LAPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 



( 

Beernuts Mark Williams 
LSOUT/-1 AFRICA.. ./ &JY; A/1 I &L.A}) THAT COCA -{J)LA AND ITS SU?ftJ/?fERS (suCJi 
-.
AS. N@£,DAn) IIAVDVT REAL-k_Y PIV­
EST{iJ y[.T CUl AFTER A J_ON& f)AY IN DIAMOND NOTHI#(r EE!tTS A COLD mK£! / 
11-11 ~ 
"OK. I'll go back and tell my people that you're staying in the boat, but I warn you they're not going to like it." 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~.._.~~~~~~~~~~------.....,
' ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~,.._.~~.._. ..... .._.~.._. ..... ~~~.._. .......... .._.~~~~~ 
t SyB1»resents : ~ .il" .il" .il" ~ "" , """' , , , EDDIE MURPHY t t.....,. .il" .il" .il" .il" .....,.. .il""" ~ ~ ~ , ' IS BACK IN ACTION. t
! The Gylden Chil~~"" t
....... .il"....... ,,
't .il" ....... ....... ~ """' ~ """' ~ , , ' THE '
t ,....... ,~"""'"" ~ 7:00, 9: OOz.-..11: 00 pm GOLDEN CHILD t! ,""" ,,....... ,~--------------------, ,. ', 
,.....,., ,....... .....,. Wednesday & Thursday t t , .....,. , ' Engineering Auditorium $2 t 
~~~~ ,'------------------------~­
t """' ..... ~~~~~~~ ..... ~~~~~.._.~~.._.~~~ ..... ~~~~~~~~~.._.~ ..... .._.~~~~~~t 
IT'5 8££N 1HK€E WtEKS, f/nfl. 11M€ 1rJ File£ THe f()5T-WA(J; 57'Rf£T­CI?A5H ..... Kt.At.m£5. .;_t( \  A5 or xr 1sr, 01.« 8~Kcl? 511Y.5 01/1? NET IMJI?TH !5 lfMIT 5/X t:W.III?S. I  NOW.• fOI? IN5TIINU•. HOW Nll&ttT 1HI5 fJIT Of N€W5 KR!CT OfiR Pt.IW5 W 81/Y II NCW 8a'fT 1HI5 51/MM6R? )  MY &OfJ. we'K~ 60fN6 wHAVe ro serru rOI< 1Ht' MOl?£ fflct-­CfrtC!ctiT 260 h.p. ~50 M/1&5 IN THIJT !M~Y•.  


Campus 
12 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar (Brown Bag) "The Effects of Militarization and War on the African Food Systems," by Mutombo Mpanya. Discussion by Harold Miller, Conrad Grebel College (Canada). Room 131 Decio. 
2:15p.m.: Department Materials Science and Engineering and GTE Emerging Scholar Seminar "Atomic Resolution Microscopy of Precipitates and Interfaces in Materials," by Professor James Howe, Carnegie-Mellon University. Room 384 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar "Marine Macrophage Hybrids: a Somatic CelltGenetic Approach to the Understanding of Macrophage Function," by Steve Zuckerman, Eli Lilly Labs. Room 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
6 p.m.: Inland Steel Company PresentationReception for all interested Arts and Letters, Business and MBA students; Upper Lounge, University Club. 7 p.m. & 9 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Footloose," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Turkey & Dressing 
Sweet & Sour Pork Baked Ham 
Gyros Shrimp & Vegetable 
Crepes Marinara Stir Fry 

Comics 
Bloom County 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Vapor 8 Decamped 
10 Wane 14 Analyze 
sentences 15 Whit 18 Son of Judah 17 Certain 
distance 19 Rip 20 Beverage 21 Pester 22 Condition 23 Sense 24 Scrap 25 Business 
group 28 China piece 31 Rose's friend 32 Country 
gallant 34 Living beings 38 Traditional 
knowledge 39-down 
(subdued) 40 At rest 41 Plateau 42 Levels 43 Traveled 44 Stair post 46 Psychiatrist 
Alfred 47 Blind 50 Probability 52 Edible nut 
53 Ancient 
courtyards 55 Govt. agcy. 58 -boy! 59 Yearning 81 Untruths 62 Edible root 33 -seal 84 Noun ending 65 Vlngt-­66 Stalks 
DOWN 1 Tiff 2 Weight 
allowance 3 Humorist 
Bombeck 4 Donkey 5 Fused 
Berke Breathed 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved  
8 Ultimate  
7 Unshaped  
timber  
8 Diminutive  
suffix  
9 Morse code  
word  
10 Worthless  
11 Close to poets  
12 -Allghlerl  
13 Finished  
18 Shoe width  
22 Concorde  
23 Relaxed  
25 Ointment  
26 Woodwind  
27 Affectation  
28 Jury  
29 Legal holding  
30 Connectives  47 Laminated  
32 Hodgepodge  rock  
33 Interlaced  48  -hand  
35 Hero  (humbly)  
36 Ye -Shoppe  49 Mex. Indian  
37 Palm reader  50 Hunter In the  
45 Conger  stars  
46 Maxims  51  Noise  

The Far Side 
53 "-may look 
on a king" 54 In and out 55 Links call 56 Per ­57 Totals 59 Devoured 60 Cistern 
Gary Larson 


Sports
page 12 Tuesday, November 17, 1987 
Men's cross country 
! 
runs to NCAA finals 
l By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
How sweet it is! 

The Notre Dame cross country team placed third in the NCAA District IV meet in Bowling Green Saturday and brought home a bid to the NCAA Championship Meet. 
The Irish finished third with 109 points behind Wisconsin 
(66) and Indiana (81). 
Notre Dame's performance came as a bit of a surprise as they faced an impressive field 
I 
\. of competitors, such as third­ranked Wisconsin, sixth­ranked Illinois, and Big Ten powers Indiana and Michigan. 
"Nobody expected us to keep coming on," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "It is a true tribute to the leadership of the seniors on the team. They never gave up." 
Senior captain Dan Garrett lead the Irish across the finish line, placing fifth overall with junior Ron Markezich follow-
Season ticket sales slow slightly 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
;. l 
i 
A cold, windy morning. High ticket prices. A comparatively weak home schedule. The suc­
cess of the football team. 
I ' 
t 
These factors do not lend themselves to long lines for basketball season tickets. 
) 
.i, 
Oops, it's $64, not $54
) 
A misprint on the basket­ball season ticket applica­tion has resulted in an "increase" of the price of bleacher seats. 
The mistake, which was not discovered until Monday morning, listed the price for 
1he Observer 1 Aob Aegovich 

Irish left wing Tom Smith (dark jersey) Ia Notre Dame's weekend sweep of the checked by a Lake Forest defender In Foresters at left. 

I 
1.:
,. 
ii
'· 
< j! 
~~ ~I~ 
H i 
I 
I 
I 
i " 
I 
I• 
r 
i 
! 
i 
I 
;, 
; 'd 
I. 
!l 
'! Friday night's game. Pete Sklko reviews 
ii 
l 
.,
i• 
\~\l ~ 
A walk out to Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC late Monday mor­ning proved this theory, as a line of about 30 students waited for the first day of basketball season ticket sales. 
"The lines were twice as long last year," said Sean Pieri, a senior from Sorin and the third person in line for tickets. "I 
~~ 
ing close behind in eighth place. 
Sophomore Mike O'Conner ~~­captured 20th place to round off the Irish harriers finishing in the top 20. 
Freshmen Pat Kearns and 
:rJ ...'i. ~· Ryan Cahill turned in strong performances, as did sopho­more Tom Macken. Senior Rick Mulvey ran a strong race for the Irish to help the Irish earn their first NCAA bid since 1984. 
Notre Dame's third-place victory is an achievement in it­­
self, especially competing against a field of 174 runners representing 21 schools. 
Even sixth-ranked Illinois was trodden underfoot by the competition and only managed 


to finish fifth in the meet. But more important than the 
team's third-place finish is the 
qualification for the NCAA 
Championships that places 

them among an elite crowd of Irish runners Ron Markezlch (rlgtt), Mike 
22 teams that have earned a O'Connor (middle) and Dan Garrett (:>ack left) were the top three team finishers Saturday at the 
see ELITE, page 9 
a bleacher season ticket at $54 instead of the actual $64. 
Because most seniors get lower arena seating, assis­tant ticket manager Jim Bell said that the problem of ticket purchasers caught $10 short was kept to a mini­mum. 

know a lot of guys aren't get­ting tickets because of the price and the weak home schedule." 
Despite the short lines, assis­tant ticket manager Jim Bell said Monday afternoon that ticket sales were going rather well. 
"As far as being up to last year's pace, no," said Bell. "It's a little bit down, but it's fairly close." 
The prices for the season­ticket package of 16 games are $80 for lower arena seating and $64 for bleacher seats. These prices represent a $1 increase per game from last season's price. 
Bell indicated that juniors should have no problem pur­chasing lower arena seating 
see TICKETS, page 8 
~ Hockey sweeps Foresters 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team pushed its record over the .500 mark for the first time since the 1983-84 season by sweeping Lake Forest over the weekend weekend in a home-and-home series. 
The Irish took the first game at home, 6-4, after being down by 3-1 and 4-2 deficits in the second period. But to hear first-year head coach Ric Schafer talk, the fact that the Irish came back to take the game was just icing on the cake. 
"Even when we were down 3-1 and 4-2," said Schafer, in his debut season with the Irish. "I was entirely satisfied with our team's performance. We com­pletely dominated the game, but we just couldn't put the puck in the net." 
But then the Irish defense stiffened, holding the Foresters without a goal for the final 32 minutes of the contest. The offense kicked into gear to complete the comeback as Chris Olson scored the first goal on an assist from Tim Caddo, and Bob Bilton got the second on a nice assist from Bob Herber. Keith Markovitz tallied twice for the Irish and junior Frank O'Brien tapped in the 
Ellis signs 


with Irish 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN sports Editor 
Irish basketball head coach Digger Phelps received a bit of news Mon­day afternoon which should give him more reason to be thankful this holiday season. 
LaPhonso Ellis, a 6-9 
senior from Lincoln High School in East St. Louis, Ill., 
LaPhonso Ellis

signed a letter of intent to attend Notre Dame next fall. while Lincoln finished 27-1 Ellis is the second-team and won the Illinois class AA High School All-American championship. selection of Street &Smith's ''A lot of people in the area and is rated as one of the top wanted me to go to Illinois, high school recruits in the but I have to be comfortable country. for the next four years," El­
As a junior, Ellis averaged lis said of the decision to at­19 points, 19 rebounds and seven blocked shots a game see ELLIS, page 9 
... 

The Observer 1 Mike Moran 
NCAA district meet at Bowling Green, Ohio. The third-place finish qualifies the Irish for the NCAA Championship meet next weekend. 
game-winner on a pretty pass from freshman Tim Kuehl. Thomas Smith added an insurance goal to close out the scoring. 
Then the action shifted to Lake For­est, Ill., for game two, and again the contest was decided in the late going. After a nip-and-tuck battle Notre Dame pulled out a 5-4 win when junior Brian Montgomery scored in a crowd in front of the Lake Forest goal with four minutes left in the overtime period to give the Irish their first series sweep since January of last season. 
Schafer liked virtually everything he saw this weekend. 
"You're always pleased with a sweep," said Schafer. "But the way we played showed me that we're making good progress. Our passing and check­ing isn't quite as crisp as it could be, but we've improved from game to game, which is all I can really ask . 
"Opponents averaged six goals a game against us in the first four games, and we got that down to a reasonable level this weekend. We worked well as a team, which is what we're going to need. There aren't going to be any su­perstars doing it on their own." 
The Irish take on St. Thomas (Minn.) at home for two games next weekend. 






