I
I A 50's cold war [ -ifl
ACCENT: Minimizing the shock li]:Q~
Sunny Tuesday with highs 
~-==========================================: near 60. Fair Tuesday night ~ IVIEWPOINT: Accident policy announced IL......~_:!h_a!~-~s_l~-~~~-~s-up~-~-d~0_e~d-:y_----~ 
_ _ with highs In the low 60s. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ' 

Indiana University installs new president amid pomp 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -A colorful display of balloons, mimes and jugglers followed the pomp and circumstance of the formal inauguration Mon­day of Thomas Ehrlich as the 15th president of Indiana Uni­versity. 
More than 2,500 people filled the IU auditorium, including representatives of all eight uni­versity campuses, to hear Ehrlich's inaugural address, which was followed by a 
~ ~ 
"jubilee party" on the lawn outside. 
Ehrlich, 53, assumed respon­sibilities as university presi­dent on Aug. 1, following the retirement of John Ryan, who had led the university for 16 years. He previously had served as provost at the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania. 
Ehrlich's speech and formal investiture capped two days of inaugural events in In­dianapolis and Bloomington. 
In his speech, Ehrlich said the university had a responsi­

~~ ,. __ ,·_.\..
,
,.. . 
_,. 
i 
L 

Hypo-active 
""' 
bility to teach values to its stu­dents. 
"It is risky business to com­ment on issues of values, but I know no more important ques­tions facing institutions of higher education," he said. "I take the risk with the realiza­tion that those issues will not be resolved at once or for all time. Rather, they are for each generation to confront anew." 
Ehrlich warned against the idea that students who have failed to develop values by the time they leave high school will not develop them. 
The Observer1Todd Tucker 

Professor Howard Blackstead can relax with the dining halls during lunch and dinner. Today they are knowledge that he is immunized from the flu. Flu being given in the North Dining Hall. immunization shots are being administered in the 


Immunity research wins Nobel 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Susumu Tonegawa, a Japanese researcher working in the United States, won the Nobel Prize in medicine Monday for discovering how the body makes millions of kinds of an­tibodies to fight disease. 
His findings could help im­prove vaccines and make or­gan transplants safer, said the Nobel Assembly of the Karolinska Institute, which awards the prize. 
Hans Wigzell of the institute said Tonegawa's research also may be significant in fighting such diseases as acquired im­mune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS, which destroys the body's immune system. 
At the Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology in Cambridge, where he has worked since 1981, the 48-year­old Tonegawa told reporters: 
"The problem of how our body can respond to so many different kinds of pathogens was one of the most hotly debated issues in immunology. We did not understand how that happened. 
"It turned out that, contrary to what many people thought, genes can change during the life cycle of the individual. That finding was unexpected to many, and yet it answered one of the mysteries of immunol­ogy." 
Asked what impact his work might have on AIDS research, the scientist said: "what we have done and.are doing is not designed specifically to solve the problem of AIDS, but it's probable that the information we get will be useful in solving it." 
Wigzell, a professor of im­munology, said Tonegawa's work could play an important role in understanding diseases such as AIDS, but "it would be too simple" to say there was an immediate bearing on fin­ding a cure for the deadly dis­ease. 
Tonegawa, the first Japanese to receive the medicine prize, "answered a question that has been debated for years: how can the body's 100,000 genes produce a billion different an­tibodies?" said Goran Holm, a member of the Nobel Assem­bly. 

Antibodies are important tools in identifying viruses and bacteria that invade the body, and in preparing the immune system for attacking the in­truders. Each is targeted by nature on an invading virus or bacteria. 
Tonegawa's research helped clarify how the immune system sometimes produces faulty an­tibodies that cause allergies. 
"My own experiences, both in and out of the classroom, convince me that a university education can and should in­clude values, not through in­culcation but through both in­tellectual inquiry and example," he said. 
Reason and respect are not the only moral concepts stu­dents should learn, but they are two of the most important, said Ehrlich. 
"The morality of reason re­quires us to examine an issue, to break it into its component parts, to analyze each of those parts and then to reconstruct them through careful consider­ation of premise and conclu­sion." . 

He said that although "every student comes to the university with conceptions and precon­ceptions," they are required to analyze their premises during their studies there. 
"The most important dimen­sion of what our students learn . . . is not information, but a process of self-education through rational inquiry," he said. 

Bush joins race; wants 'big desk' 
wife, Barbara, and other mem­Associated Press bers of his family, said, "I 
HOUSTON -Vice President mean to run hard, to fight hard, George Bush on Monday offi­to stand on the issues. I mean cially began a "last hurrah" to win." quest for the presidency, trying In a 20-minute speech, Bush to become the first man in over walked a fine line between 150 years to win the White praising Reagan as "a great 
House while serving in the No. president" and suggesting 2 job. ways he would part company Returning to his hometown to with his boss. formally kick off his second "The president asked for and 
campaign for the Republican received my candor. He never nomination, . Bush told asked for, but received, my hundreds of cheering sup­loyalty," Bush said. "But now porters that the key issue in it is my responsibility to turn 
1988 will be who should follow to the American people and Ronald Reagan in the Oval Of­share with them my hopes and fice. intentions, and I wish to lead." 
"For seven years now, I have During the speech, which 
been with a president, and I touched on an array of domes­have seen what crosses that big tic and foreign policy issues, desk," Bush said. "And who Bush embraced Reagan's should sit at that desk? I am stand against any general or that man." 
Bush, surrounded by his see BUSH, page 4 
Saint Mary's celebrates 143rd Founder's Day 
By COURTNEY JAMIESON News Staff 
Saint Mary's will celebrate the 143rd Annual Founder's Day today with a series of events including a 4 p.m. five kilometer fun run and a special dinner at the dining hall. 
Founder's Day is tradi­tionally celebrated in honor of the College's founders, one of whom is Father Ed­ward Sorin, Notre Dame's founder. The Saint Mary's event is celebrated on Sorin's feast day, said Mary Carol Cahill, commissioner of traditional events. 
Cahill said Founder's Day is also celebrated in honor of the present student body for helping shape the future of Saint Mary's tradition. 
"We have tried to update the event into something you wouldn't normally think Founder's Day to be with such events as the fun run," Cahill said. 
Other events scheduled for the celebration include the opening of the new "Club Tuesday" in Haggar College Center, Cahill said. Enter­tainment at Club Tuesday will be provided by singer­comedian Brian Huskey, she said, adding that all students will receive a book on facts about the College. 
"The day's events should be enjoyable for everyone in the Saint Mary's communi­ty," Cahill said. 
Sophomore Sue Leto said she feels Founder's Day "is a very special tradition in the Saint Mary's Communi­ty." 


-

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1987 

Special Olympics give special speaking chance 
1
In Brief 
Free flu shots are being offered to students and faculty this week, Health Advisory Commissioner Dan Gaughan told the student senate Monday. The flu shots, sponsored by University Health Services, will be given at various locations around campus, Gaughan said. As many as 5,000 shots will be administered by University Health Services between Monday and Thursday, he said. About 500 stu­dents received shots Monday, he said. -The Observer 


Of Interest 
Junior dogbook pictures for the Class of 19~9 will continue today and Wednesday from 6 to 10 p.m. m 307 LaFortune Student Center. Juniors should bring a brief quote they wish to appear under their name in the book. Orders for books will be taken at this time. -The Observer 
Senior trip members are reminded that there are only three forms of necessary identification acceptable. These are either a sealed birth certificate from the country of your birth, a passport, or a voter's registration card. You must have one of these three forms. -The Observer 
U2 ticket lottery signups for sophomores will be held in the Sophomore Class Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune from 2-4 p.m. You must be a sophomore, and can ony sign up for yourself with an I.D. The concert is Sunday, Nov. 1 at the Indianapolis Hoosierdome with special guest Los Lobos. -The Observer 
ND Knights of Columbus will have a general meeting at 7 p.m., followed by a presentation by Brian Zendreu from the Gibault Indiana Home for Boys at 7:45. Visitors are invited to attend this presentation. -The Ob­server 
An undergraduate reception will be held at the Snite Museum from 5 to 6 p.m. before the John Kenneth Galbraith lecture on economics. The lecture will be at Washington Hall at 7:30. -The Observer 
Air Force ROTC will be recruiting in the lounges of all dorms. If interested in ROTC, look for the representa­tive in your dorm. -The Observer 
Senior reflection group sign-ups have been extended through the end of this week. Interested students may sign-up at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Ob­server 
The Feast of St. Edward will be celebrated by a mass in the St. Edward's Hall chapel at 10 p.m. Father Malloy will be the celebrant. All are welcome. -The Ob­server 
We want to know! 
If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night. 


-~e-Obse..---~~r----­

--=-l.-=n -a.~•=-~ 
Viewpoint Layout Richell Aschenbrenner

Design Editor ................. Kathy Huston 
Accent Copy Editor ..... Trisha ChambersDesign Assistant .. ...... Stewart Garcia 

Accent Layout.................... Caralyn Rey

Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman 
Typists................................ Jenn Conlon 

...........................................Daniel Cahill 
ND Day Editor ........ Kathy McKee

News Editor....................... Regis Coccia 
SMC Day Editor. Karin Rader

Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley 
Photographer ............ Todd Tucker

Sports Copy Editor ............... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Matt Slaughter 
ne Olleener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durilla exam &Del vacation periods. ne Oblenll' is published by !be students or the Univenity of Notre Dame &Del Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed ror s.40 per year (S2S per semester) by writilll ne Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
De Oblener is a member or De Allodaled Pnu. All reproduction riahts are reserved. 

I had the assignment of covering soccer at the Special Olympics. 
Chile had beaten Argentina in the first round of the tournament, and I wanted to talk to a Chilean player who scored three goals. 
However, there was one problem with inter­viewing the player -he only spoke Spanish. I told the interpreter to stay near, but that I wanted to try speaking to him on my own first. 
"Soy reportero para un periodico," I intro­duced myself to the player, a forward by the name of Francisco Salas. 
I wanted to ask him about a play in which he took a beautiful pass from a fellow forward and scored the game's second goal. 
Describe Ud. por favor el seugn gol." I didn't know if the grammar was correct, but Fran­cisco proceeded to describe the play with both words and hand movements. 
I was glad he used his hands because the words were hard for an Intermediate Spanishstudent to understand. 
I tried another question, testing my ability to communicate in Spanish. "Practica Ud. el fut­bol todos los dias?" I asked. 
He said no. 

"Cuantos dias en una semana practica Ud. ?" "Cuatro," Fransisco noted, Pero en el mes pasado, seis." The team upped its practice schedule from four to six practices a week. 
This short conversation not only gave me ma­terial for an article, but also gave me a different perspective of the Olympics. 
There are hundreds of stories from this past summer's Special Olympic Games. 
Most of the stories tell tales of courage and pride as the athletes overcome handicaps to perform the best they can. 
Other stories explained how spectators of the Olympics no longer looked at these athletes as being special, but just as competitors. 
I think there is another story besides the "spe­cial" nature of the athletes. I was amazed by the collection of athletes from around the world, all gathered in this small city in northern In­diana. 
From San Moreno to San Mateo, from Morocco to Mexico, athletes arrived from 80 different countries to compete in the largest Special Olympics ever. 
At the soccer venue, teams from Chile, Ar­gentina, Barbados, Mexico, and several other Spanish-speaking countries were among the featured competition. 
I saw my job as an opportunity. 
I had taken Spanish in high school and here 
at Notre Dame, but I had never had the chance 
Pete 


Gegen ~!!'­
' "'9" t

Assistant Sports Editor . 
~V.e:--l..flll=i=!!~.J­--"---ljiiiiij~;dl;"' 
to use the language in situations other than tests and quizzes. There were interpreters available, but I wanted to see if I could communicate with these teams on my own. 
I was nervous. 
My past schooling included three years of high-school Spanish. I had the same teacher for two of those years, and he covered not only grammar, but also the customs and traditions of the Spanish-speaking countries. He was a good teacher, and he kept my interest in the language. 
Spanish would not fit into my schedule my senior year, and the schedule for math majors at Notre Dame does not include a foreign lan­guage until sophomore year. 
So after a two-year break, I took an inter­mediate Spanish class. 
It wasn't the same. With physics and math classes to worry about, Spanish took a back seat. The grammar became more intricate, and I did not·speak the language well. 
Part of the reason for the change is the fact that, outside of the classroom, I never got to use what I learned in the classroom. 
After a certain point of schooling, you have to practice using Spanish in ordinary conversa­tion so that the language doesn't appear to be just a set of grammatical rules. 
At the Special Olympics I finally had my chance. 

N':~:J:]s .--""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""~~ ~-~:i~.; ....--~ 
contact 1 
C1H MIKE LANIGAN I Mike Kelly (312)565·5959 I (800) 621-2516 From 9-5, M-F 
(312) 943-7846 afllr 5 L ________j 
-----------------------,

DMADE 100% WOOL I 
-I


WEATERS-I 
GE IS BAcK-1 
I I 
t Sweaters; 1 
~ 
colors I I I I I I 
Monday 9-5 





Tuesday, October 13, 1987 The Observer page 3 



Hurricane Floyd strikes Florida, but then fizzles 

Associated Press 
MIAMI -Hurricane Floyd sprang to life in the Gulf of Mexico early Monday, hitting south Florida with 80 mph wind and heavy rain. Some coastal residents scurried for shelter, while others cleared stores of batteries, canned food and bottled water. 
But by Monday evening the eye had all but disappeared, the National Hurricane Center 
r.~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!', • • • • ....,....!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ --.n -·~­
PUT YOUR COLLEGE DEGREE TO WORK. 
Air Force Officer Training School 
is an excellent start to a 
challenging career as an Air 
Force Officer. We offer great 
starting pay, medical care, 30 
days of vacation with pay each 
year and management 


opportunities. Contact an 
Air Force recruiter. Find out what 
Officer Training School can mean 
for you. Call 
1-800-423-USAF TOLL FREE 
_ ~ >
_,

l.;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-,_;;:::.::._.__._. =: 
~~~~~ 

• 
reported, and winds dropped slightly to 75 mph. 
"There's no well-defined storm," said forecaster Bob Sheets, "I'm afraid some people are overreacting. This is just barely a hurricane." 
The center Monday evening cancelled hurricane warnings on the state's southwestern coast, maintaining them only on the eastern coast from Stuart, north of West Palm Beach, to Key Largo. 

Floyd grew from a tropical storm to become the season's third hurricane. 
It began heading up through the Florida Keys toward south­ern Dade County at the south­ern tip of the mainland, spawn­ing at least two tornadoes. 
The storm's central eye passed directly over Key West between noon and 1p.m., bring­ing a brief and eerie calm to the island, and began heading up the Overseas Highway that strings the islands together. 
Unimpressed Key West youngsters took advantage of the wind to turn skateboards into sailboards with the help of towel sails. Surf blasted over the seaside monument 


SMC board lists 'Day's' events 
By MIMI TUOHY Staff Reporter 
The events for today's Foun­der's Day celebration at Saint Mary's were announced Mon­day night at the programming board meeting by Senior Smith Hashagen, vice president of student affairs. 
Events for the annual Foun­der's Day celebration include a special dinner at Saint Mary's dining hall, a fun run at 4 p.m., and the grand opening of "Club Tuesday" marking the southernmost point of the continental United States. 
"The water is not flowing off the island, it's all flowing in," said Key West Councilwoman Sally Lewis. "It's really very dramatic." 
A hurricane-spawned tor­nado hit Key Largo, knocking out electrical power and causing $100,000 damage to boats, trailers and mobile homes $100,000 damage. An­other touched down in extreme southern Dade County. No in­juries were reported. 
Officials of populous Dade and Broward counties, includ­ing Miami and Fort Lauder-

featuring singer Brian Huskey in Haggar College Center's Chameleon Room from 9 to 11 
p.m. Huskey's appearance marks the first of many enter­tainers slated for Haggar Col­lege Center in the upcoming months. 
"Brian Huskey is very enjoy­able. This is a great study break, especially during weeks like this one which are filled with tests," Hashagen said. 
In other business, Off­Campus Commissioner Jill Simonic said that pizza will be 
served to all of the off-campus students in the Day Student lounge today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
This is the first activity planned by the newly formed off-campus committee. 
"We have had two meetings, and I am really happy with the enthusiasm that the board is showing," Simonic said. 
dale, told residents to tie down loose objects in their yards and advised trailer park residents to seek shelter. 
Sheets said Floyd would probably maintain its minimal hurricane strength as it passed just south of Miami during the evening and then would head out to sea. 
By early evening, more than 200 people had filtered into an American Red Cross shelter in Homestead, south of Miami, said coordinator Gail Dia­mond. 
Turnout was low in the other 10 shelters in Dade County, said county spokeswoman Tawana Thompson. 
Mary Carol Cahill, tradi­tional events commissioner, announced last week's Fall Fest events were extremely successful, with 600 students at last Thursday's Beer Gardens, and 300 participated in the events at Haggar College Cen­ter on Wednesday. 
"I was extremely happy with the tremendous response we had. It was a great way to start off the social events for the up­coming year," Cahill said. 
Before adjourning, Has­hagen said that two alumni will be on campus speaking about their particular careers. 
Kathleen Hessert Gunder­man, the president of Career Concepts will appear in Haggar Parlor on Oct. 28, and Kathleen Flynn Fox will discuss her po­sition as vice-president of Carousel Restaurant Group in Stapleton Lounge on Nov. 4. 
Hashagen said all students are invited to attend. 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1987 
Bush 


1'----------•Store Coupon •---------•• 
I 
continued from page 1 
significant tax increases, vowing that "I am not going to raise your taxes." 

I 
But he offered a slight varia­tion on a frequent Reagan theme of recent weeks -the president's call for an "economic bill of rights." Bush said the U.S. tax code 
is "cloaked in deliberate am­biguity" and advocated a "tax­payer's bill of rights." 
He indicated a shared philos­

II II 
4 Foot and 6 Foot
IGiant Submarine Sandwiches 1 
I II Present this coupon at time of purchase and receive a 1 Master of the game The uoserve111 odd TucKer 1 $3.00 Discount I1 

Professor Sam Shapiro makes his move in one of ously. The exhibition was staged in LaFortune by the 
I Please call to order in

several chess matches which he played simultane-Chess Club Monday night. 
1advance 277-8694 


ND may host Ivy in 
By MICHELLE DALL 
News Staff 
A national interhall football championship between Notre Dame, Harvard, Yale, and one of the U.S. service academies has been proposed by Notre Dame's student government. 
Student government Athletic Commissioner Brian Padian said he became interested in the idea after he was ap­proached by John VVilson, former student life coordinator at Notre Dame. 
Padian said he has developed a prosposal to send to the prospective schools but that he has not contacted them yet. 
Originally, six teams were to participate in a full contact football championship hosted by Notre Dame. 
But financial difficulties have troubled plans for the championship thus far, limit­ing the number of participating teams to only four and delaying the event, said Padian. 
"Right now, we don't have enough money in our budget to host the event alone, so we're hoping the (Office of Non­Varsity Athletics) will sponsor it," Padian said. 
The NVA may be hesitant to sponsor the event, said Padian, because Notre Dame varsity football has a much larger fol­lowing than it did last year, when the idea was first pro­posed. 
Notre Dame will host the three other schools, so money is needed to fly players and coaches into South Bend and to QrOVide them with food and 
Correction 

In Monday's front page photo caption, the person shaking hands with Saint Mary's President VVilliam Hickey was misidentified. He is Clinton Sathrum, ar­chitect of the Saint Mary's Science Building. 
lodging during their stay. 
Another major issue which must be resolved is the manner in which each championship team will be chosen. Padian said two methods of choosing the Notre Dame team are pres­ently being considered. Notre Dame will either be represented by an all-star team consisting of the best players from each male dormitory or the winners of the next inter­hall championship. 
Padian said he hopes to make the game an annual event, and he believes the championship will create a tradition. 
"I think we'll get great press converage, because all four teams are from great aca­demic schools," said Padian, adding, "Once other schoois see the championship, they'll want to get involved too." 



IH football i 
I 

Padian hopes the project will 
1 $~ SAVE00

get underway in the coming 
il ~ • 

year. 
I 

~==~==============~ 




~--------------------------· 
~.:~r:, ~.,.~....-+-~ ~r:, 
\" '\~ 
~~.,.~ 


If you are Organized and Enthusiastic and like to have a good time, talk to us. A handful of college students are running a multi-million dollar national charity fundraising event and WE NEED YOUR HELP! 
$ 
$ 

• 
THE 
lAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
• • Don't miss this chance to rub elbows with the BEST! 
Co-sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and Career and Placement Services 
October 14 
2:00 • 4:00 pm Over 50 representativeslWtl~• 
----~ww~..wu~ 
ophy with Reagan on the need for "a prudent skepticism" in dealings with the Soviets and said the Reagan doctrine of en­couraging struggles for democracy "must thunder on." 
That, said Bush, includes Nicaragua as well as Mghanis­tan and Mrica. 
VVithout citing any names, Bush blasted those who engage in "influence-peddling in VVashington" and said Americans must "leave the tired old baggage of bigotry be­hind us." 







County I 
I 
Martieti 
TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS I 5901 N. Grape Road I Buyers Market Place I Mishawaka, IN 46545 
I 


Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 13, 1987 page 5 
Policy improved for accuracy, fairness 
The Observer's editorial board has reviewed its policy of with­holding names of those arrested in coimection with alcohol­related accidents. 
During the past academic year, three students were arrested and charged in separate accidents involving both alcohol and death or injury. In each instance, The Observer withheld the arrested student's name. 
The editorial board decided to review this policy primarily for two reasons. 
The first involves an overriding duty of The Observer as the independent newspaper serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community--to report the facts of an event as accurately and completely as possible. The Observer reported the three alcohol-related accidents, but it did not report all the facts -­The Observer did not publish the names of the students arrested in the accidents. It therefore failed io its service to the commu­nity in ways such as not providing a complete chronicle of the public record and not squelching the possible rumors as to the identity of the student, thus casting doubt on many for the alleged crime of one. 
Also, the editorial board reviewed the policy in the interest of fairness. In compliance with its obligation as a newspaper to follow journalistic standards, The Observer published the names of people charged in other crimes, such as theft, arson and murder. But it did not publish the names of students charged with another serious crime: injuring or killing someone in an alcohol-related accident. Thus, The Observer was remiss in its duty to provide a fair source of news to the community. 
During the past several months, the editorial board has ex­amined all of these factors. It also has taken a hard look at the emotional considerations of seeing one's name in print. 
After much consideration, the editorial board has decided to eliminate its policy of withholding the names of students arrested in alcohol-related accidents. 
This newspaper seeks to report the news as accurately, com­pletely and fairly as possible. The Observer can accomplish this only by doing away with a policy that hinders it in this duty. 

-The Observer 

.loonesbury 
GC{)f(r;C, I'M HAVING A HA/?JJ TIME I<E&P­/NG MYSI0/3 OF THE 
FAMit.Y IN liNE. THeRE'S A BIT OFA STIIMPEa3 
7lJKEMP. 
~ 

ANO 7H/l:T'5 NOT ALL. 
SOMtONe YOU HAVEN'T 5£3l3N IN A LQVG TIME; HAS JUST TURN£30 UP IN THe{)() PONTCAMP! 
' 



P.O. Box Q 
Control must keep tempers in check 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to draw attention to an extracurricular activity that is going on this fall-Women's interhall flag foot­ball. Women's flag football is very com­petitive. I have watched teams practice and play games. As we have at any level of competition, there are teams, which are stronger than others, and there are many obvious reasons why some teams possess advantages. I com­mend coaches and participants on their desire to compete. 
As the season is well underway and the competitiveness of the games grows more intense, we (I include myself this time) sometimes lose our self control in the "heat of the battle." There are going to be times when we lose our com­posure and we will say or do things to­tally unlike our nature. I am referring to an incident that occurred during the flag football game between Lewis and Breen-Phillips. 
At Cartier Field on October 4, in the second half of a very close game, a Breen-Phillips player was running to gain first down yardage on a fourth down play, and upon colliding with a Lewis defender, fell to the turf in pain. Lying on the turf injured and unable to move, the BP player was escorted off the field in an ambulance. The game was delayed for ten or fifteen minutes, and during this time the defender felt sorry for the accidental collision, one of many that happen in games. Finally, at the end of the hard fought game that went into six overtimes, the players and coaches of both teams met at midfield for the customary hand shake. As hands were shook and phrases of "good game" were said, a Breen-Phillips player blurted to me and another coach something to the effect that we (Lewis) got what we wanted by knocking their good player out of the game even though we lost. That statement really surprised us, because the young lady accused the Lewis team of purposely going out to injure a player, whose sister lives in Lewis. I thought that was really rude of her to accuse us of such low behavior. Later after the game, as I went to Mass in Dillon, some repre­sentatives of Breen-Phillips visited the rectress of Lewis. They complained of foul language and other abuses from the coaches and players of Lewis; but I sat in mass saying a special intention for the injured player and for the Breen­Phillips player who made the rude remark. I know the collision was ac­cidental. I am hoping that the young lady only made the rude remark due to the "heat of the battle," but if not, she is representing Breen-Phillips team and herself in the wrong way. 
James Bobb Dillon Hall 


Garry Trudeau 
Y(}(JHAVc TO TALJ<. 7lJ HIM, GtlJR6E. 
'3HOWHIII1 
YOURR&­
SUM&.. \ 

"God never built a Christian. strong enough to carry today's 
duties  and  tomorrow's  
anxieties plied on the top of  
them."  

Theodore Cuyler 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The News Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space ip available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. Brian Murray Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ........... David Culligan News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager .................. Melinda Chapleau News Editor .............................................. Jim Alley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schlndele Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1988 




Ac·cent 

Tuesday, October 13, 1987 
page 6 

ISAO minimizes culture shock 
KATHY SCARBECK accent writer 
D emember when you 
~hought the Rock was something you studied in geol­ogy? How long did it take before you finally knew the dif­ference between the C.C.E. and the C.S.C. buildings? And did you ever wonder why the li­brary elevator doesn't stop on the fourteenth floor? 
Everybody remembers the confusion of arriving at Notre Dame as a freshman. But im­agine what it's like to be a foreign student, a stranger in a strange land. 
before students arrive. "In the spring the Admissions Office notifies us of who the new foreign students are, and I cor­respond with them to let them know the ins and outs of life in the U.S .. " He also sends stu­dents some general informa­tion on Notre Dame as well as instructions on how to obtain a visa. 
The ISAO later conducts a one-day orientation session for students upon their arrival. In­formation about banking. health insurance, and the li­brary is provided at this meeting. "We introduce stu­dents to services here on countries. 
"They're great," says Pakis­tinian freshman Shahzad As­ghar of his host family, 
"They're like parents for me. I can ring them any time, and 
they can help me." 
International students often have problems with the lan­guage barrier. While classes offering instruction in English as a second language are avail­able on campus, Orubert says that students are expected to be "proficient enough to start in on their work" when they come to Notre Dame. "Students arrive with a certain capability in English, but they really need practice in spoken English," he explains. 
Although he's had eight years of English in school, Austrian graduate student Adolf Boesch hasn't formally studied the lan­guage in eight years. He ad­mits that he's been having some trouble when people speak too quickly: "Sometimes it moves a little too fast for me," he says. 
Orubert maintains that most international students tend to "assimilate into the population with great ease." Some stu­dents, however, come from countries that don't stress En­glish in the schools. 
"Those from the People's Republic of China have to work doubly hard to catch up on their English capabilities. The departments here have been sympathetic, and in the lon!=j run they have good students." 
And, according to Orubert, the entire university benefits from them. "The more interna­tional students are appreciated, the more international our American students will become. I would hope our American students are working to help foreign students into their so­cial circles and use their knowl­edge and scope to their bene­fit." 

Notre Dame's International campus, so they can know Student Affairs Office ([SAO) what's available to help them helps foreign students become do their work." says Orubert. accustomed to campus life. Under the direction of Arthur Finally, they give a pre­Qrubert, the ISAO provides a departure orientation. "We variety of services for the 445 work to help students return graduate and undergraduate home," he explains, "It can be students from 65 foreign a culture shock to return home countries who attend Notre when 'it was so great back Dame. there.' The experience that 
"Over the past two decades, foreign students have here is the number of foreign students so rich that they will never for­in the U.S. has dramatically get it. They grow so much, but increased," says Orubert, "They their friends back home main­recognized the high quality of tain their same attitudes." a U.S. education, especially at In addition to providing per­schools such as Notre Dame." sonal counselling to students The ISAO was created 15 years and doing some work for the ago to help deal with the influx U.S. Immigration Service, of these students. Orubert matches foreign stu­
Orubert describes the three dents with host families in the "levels of orientation" in which area. These families i;>efriend his office is involved. Work at students and help them adjust 
the first level begins even to life away from their home 

Responsible drinking
is the key 
both the founding of the club and its philosophy. "From a peer to peer level, we're really concerned about student health and attitudes regarding alco­hol. It's your friend saying. 'Hey I'm concerned about you"', states Verbaro. BACCHUS was inspired and continues to thrive out of this genuine con­cern for one another. 
The basic philosophy upon which BACCHUS was founded is simple. It asks students to make conscious decisions whe­ther to drink or not to drink. If the decision is made to drink. then drinking responsibly is called for. This includes knowing your limits, making. rational decisions, and not driving under the influence of alcohol. 
The other basic point calls for drinkers to respect the views of non-drinkers and non­drinkers to do likewise. The group hopes to make all people comfortable with their 
own personal stand on alcohol, regardless of what that stand might be. 
The attitude towards alcohol at Notre Dame presents a need for a group such as BACCHUS. "At Notre Dame, alcohol is a big deal. It Is such an Issue. It really shouldn't be that way," states Jane Heisel, president of done through communication and education. BACCHUS pro­vides the avenue for both.'' 
They understand that people drink. As stated by Heisel, "Drinking is a part of society. It is fine when done responsibly. Drinking is not wrong in itself-­it is what you do with it that is important." 
Membership is made up of many different types of people. "The group itself is kind of a microcosm of the student body at Notre Dame , " describes Heisel,"It is a good mix of people, not reaching just one type of student." 
The one unifying factor of the members is that they all encourage responsible drink­ing. This, however, does not imply that the members are non-drinkers. The club attracts many varying personalities working towards one goal. 
An obvious sign of BACCHUS' hard work is Alcohol Awareness Week going on this week. It is done in cooperation with the National Collegiate Awareness Week scheduled for October I 9-25. There are a number of activities planned. The goal of the week is to make the campus aware of BACCHUS and what It stands for. 
As Jane Heisel puts It"We want to make people's stereotypes towards BACCHUS go away: to change people's thinking that we are anti­drinking. You can talk commu­nication, but if people are shut­ting us out, what can you do? You are useless. This week will hopefully make us more known around the campus and in­crease our potential effect on the students.'' 
MARIA JUKIC accent writer 
I 
f Bacchus, the Roman god of wine and revelry, were to appear at Notre Dame today, he might be curious as to why his name is being advertised around campus. In discovering the meaning of all this, he would be very surprised. He would find an organization of youths centered around alco­hol. Centered however, in a way very foreign to Bacchus' previous experiences with alco­hol and its use. 
At Notre Dame, BACCHUS Is a student organization dedi­cated to the education of the Notre Dame community about alcohol use. The group's focus is education about alcohol, not condemnation of it. 
"By any stretch of the im­agination, we are not an anti-
Calvin and Hobbes 


drinking group", says Mike Ver­baro, Alcohol Awareness Week Chairman, "Our goal is to help people make conscious deci­sions whether or not to drink.'' 
In its third year of existence and second year as an official University club, BACCHUS is taking on an enormous job. "We're trying to reach as many groups of people as possible on campus",says Verbaro, "to raise consciousness in the Notre Dame community about the group and about alcohol and its related effects." 

BACCHUS was formed by stu­dents because they saw a need for greater awareness and un­derstanding on the campus. In the wake of the University alco­hol policy instituted in I 984 and all the controversy sur­rounding the policy, BACCHUS' role in University life has taken a greater meaning. 
"The alcohol policy was de­signed to alleviate drinking on campus. It has had its effects. BACCHUS is another way to deal with these effects", says Verbaro. It is the students' means of taking some control of the situation. 
u D. k.
nn 1ng is not wrong in itself--it is what you do with it that is important. 11 

Students caring about stu­dents is a main idea behind 
Bill Watterson 
T\1E \001\-\ Fi\IR''{S GO~NA. 

.,, 
_,_ 1'1\~KE 'iOJ RIC\-\ 100\G\f\, 
BACCHUS, "We want to take the emphasis off of alcohol." 
A goal of Heisel's, as well as the club's, is "that Notre Dame becomes more laid-back about drinking. That the anxiety and controversy about drinking go away. This can only be achieved through understand­Ing by both students and the administration. And this can be 






Business
Tuesday, October 13, 1987 page 7 
Of Cats and Mice u John Sculley wrote a book to be released this month about his experience at Apple computer. In the book, Sculley tells why he fired Steve Jobs and how great the company is doing now. But in the very magazine that has John Sculley's picture on the cover (October's Inc.) is a more subtle chapter of the story: Steve Job's revenge. A Canon advertisement features a new product, the Canon Cat, which is positioned in the office publishing market to compete directly with Apple's "desktop publishing" market. All of Apple's growth has come from desktop publishing, and this area is quickly becoming the beef of their revenues, according to John Frank, president of the third largest com­puter maker, Zenith Data Systems.  
Wholihan and Murray Business Briefs  
According to the advertisement, the Canon Cat is the "brainchild of the originator of the Macintosh computer," i.e. Steve Jobs. Steve Jobs has the opportunity to do serious financial damage to Apple. Apparently, he is playing on that theme. The name "Cat" is one hint. The "mouse" is the major breakthrough of Apple, and thus the mouse symbolizes Apple in many respects. The advertisement further plays on the cat1nouse theme, stating "No menus. No files. No mouse." The Canon Cat does away with all of those standard Apple features through creative inventions of Steve Jobs. With two "leap" keys, the user can move though data in seconds, "the fastest way to move a cursor." With Jobs behind The Cat, it may just leap over Apple's mouse. u Attention Shoppers: This past week, Spiegel, the famous mail-order catalog company went public by issuing six mil­lion shares of common stock. The timing of this stock issue was questionable. The retail sector of the economy has recently been suffering which has been reflected in lower stock prices of retail companies. Spiegel officials expected their stock to be issued at $22 a share. Wall Street's lack of confidence in retailers, however, forced Spiegel to sell its stock for $16 a share. Spiegel has changed its image. They have directed their sales efforts toward working women with high incomes. These consumers have less time to shop, thus finding the catalog convenient to use. This change has allowed Spiegel to double sales since 1982. Earnings also doubled between 1985 and last year. Stockholders may have to wait for the retail slump to end, yet they may find that Spiegel's best bargain is not in the catalog, but is in the stock market.  
The Air War for Passengers Top Fiv U.S. Airlines 23,788,000  

Unique business methods frustrate U.S. business 
By RENEE GAU 
Business Writer 
In the international market­place, American business has been losing most of its ground to the Japanese. The most readily recognizable causes for this are the devaluation of the dollar, declining productivity, relatively poor product quality, and non-competitive wage rates and quotas. Yet, under­neath these supposed trade­war-induced problems lies the American businesses' inability to adopt to the growing demand for international versatility. 
In US News, Thomas Keller, Dean of the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, states, "Americans lose out overseas, even when our prod­ucts are strong, because we repeatedly fall into the trap of thinking that what we make and the way we sell here will be received just as well everywhere else." He sites the example of American produc­e'rs shipping cars to Japan with the steering wheel on the wrong side. 
Diana Rowland, in her book "Japanese Business Etiquette" explains that American busi­ness people must never assume that they share other funda­mental similarities with the Ja­panese in business expecta­tions. In fact, the Japanese business world is remarkably different and Americans would benefit by understanding it. 
A Japanese firm can be likened to a close knit network -and connections mean every­thing. The saying "who you know" takes on an even more important meaning in Japan. It is an unwritten rule never to approach a businessman or of­ficial without first being for­mally introduced, usually by 
Golf game vital business tool 
By MICHAEL FAEHNER and MATT CROWLEY Business Columnists 
Who ever said businessmen play golf for fun? 
Contrary to what many non­golfers think, a great deal of work can be accomplished by "beating the little white ball." 
The rationalizations for taking a business client out for the day take many turns. 
First of all, the peaceful en­vironment (often becoming a not so tranquil one after a few bad shots) tends to relax both the client and the host. 
The lack of a sterile business office with its air of bureau-
earn more a uut a career w1t 
Seidman 
&.. 
BID Seidman 
All Senior Accounting Majors are invited to a Reception hosted by Seidman & SeidmarYBDO 
0enior Alumn1 Club Refreshments provided TuP.srlay, October 13, 1987 
cracy allows the two associates to see things in a more agree­able light. Also, the client is more likely to see the host as being up to par with him. 
Some companies recognize the importance of golf in a busi­ness relationship. They have gone as far as to sponsor an­nual golf tournaments where the stakes are very high. They will go to such extremes as to offer a new Camaro, as one brokerage firm did, or even a new home for clients who get a hole-in-one. 
The thrill of competition can help inspire a cooperative na­ture in the client, allowing some serious work to be accom­an intermediary, a shokia-sha. If an American can get a shokai-sha, he then has an in­valuable "ally," someone who can then help in any later busi­ness negotiations. 
The next link in the Japanese network is the traditional sys­tem of employment. An Amer­ican should realize that most Japanese regard their work as somewhat more important than family or friend obliga­tions. This is because most workers have lifetime employ­ment and the attitudes developed are ones of immense sacrifice and pride. 
A Japanese will work all day and attend educational lessons offered by his company, often remaining there until long after his boss has left. Salaries for a Japanese employee are lower than a comparable West­erner's salary. However, he will be given 2 bonuses a year -in early summer and at the end of the year. These bonuses, a type of profit sharing plan, act as an incentive for greater out­put production and devotion to company policies. 
The Japanese also share the responsibilities of decision making. A business proposal is usually initiated within a Japa­nese company at the lower levels of management. Each person who sees the proposal affixes his personal seal of ap­proval. This process, called ringi-seido, or "the request of decision system," emphasizes the Japanese desire for group decisions. Although it is a time consuming process, ultimately a final decision can be imple­mented quickly and with full cooperation because it has already received unanimous support. 
An American must be patient during these times of ringi­seido and must respect the Ja­plished. The desire to get a birdie or even an eagle usually is transferred to the deal at hand. 
It is not uncommon for a sharp player to help his client's game out with a few pointers on his swing or putting in order to seal a deal. Some hosts even "throw" their games, concentrating instead on teeing off on the deal. 
In essence, golf serves as a necessity for all up and coming executives. What seems like a pointless pursuit in chasing balls around several thousand yards of water, sand and rough actually is the best method of closing the "Big Deal." 

TUESDAY SPECIAL 
STROH'S CANS 85 CENTS panese's seemingly extreme devotion to traditional work policies. Any attempt to modify this long established system or any gesture to take command of a meeting or rush a decision will be viewed as a sign of im­pertinence and disrespect. The Japanese would, then, forego any business compromise. 
During negotiations, a Japa­nese must "save face" at all times. "harmony" must be preserved. No one must be put on the spot or ridiculed. In fact, a Japanese will never say "no" nor will he directly disagree. To avoid this he will say some­thing like "It is very difficult" or he may remain silent. Here, silence may mean either a rejection of the proposal or a time of contemplation. 
Americans have difficulty dealing with these Japanese ways. Usually, American negotiations demand open dis­cussions, quick decisions, and give-eand-take resolutions. A Japanese, on the other hand, reveals information piecemeally and will compro­mise just as long as it does not seem that he is compromising. 
At all times, an American must remember that the Japa­nese work closely together in their network which demands complete unity and solidarity. It is precisely this network which is the moving force be­hind the Japanese international market success. They never take each other for granted nor do they take their competitors for granted. "An aspiring busi­ness can not afford not to be international," says Diana Rowland. "It will soon be nec­essary for everyone to have some intercultural experi­ence." This is the important lesson an American busines­sman should remember. 
PERSONALS  I  ,  
continued from page 10  
Roses may be red but we got champagne Your thoughHulness paid oH It was definitely our gain Thanks. Leanne & Sheila  
To all our HOT STUDS at 6t 1 Flenner. Thanks tor another great weekendllove. Laura & Peg .................................................................................. P.S.Did you really have to turn on the lights? .................................................................................. Aak Eric and Peg  ..  
Father"a Insurance Co would llka 2 Bwna GA"a (How don $100 aound?) Call Sue 28ol-<1035  
•  

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1987 
Tille.,...._Notnt Deme offk:e, 1ocat.t on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent eenw, -=cepta claaalfled .,.......Ill from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through FrlclaJ. n..,...._Saint M.y'a offk:e, located on the thlnl floor of .._.Collge Center, -=cepta claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through FrlclaJ. DMdllne for next.ay claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
Classifieds be prwpald, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:har.cters per clay. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Terrie's Typing;Word processing 287­1283, close to campus 
Typing 237-1949 or 277-8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
F5 ATIENTION DOMERS There will be an NO vistory party after the Air Force game at Mike Brown's house in Colorado Springs. If you are going to be there and need directions, call 283-3150. 
Typing;Word Processing 277-5014 
To NYC 1-way flight Sat, Oct. 17 9:30 am 287·4336 
I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST-Gold Cross and Chain-Sentimen­tal Value -Please call Doug 2327 
LOST: A BLACK RADIO HEADSET WITH BLUE-COVERED EAR PHONES-­ONE SINGLE UNIT-COMPACTABLE. PLEASE CALL 3881 IF FOUND! THANKS! 
PURPLE BOOK BAG MISSING! If you "borrowed" my bag Tues Oct 6 from SAGA PleaseiPieasel return anything that is left to me. No questions asked. I'm really desperate to get it back & will do anything! THANK YOU, LISA 284­4454 
JOE O'CONNOR: I'VE HAD YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK SINCE THE MSU GAMEl I KNOW YOU LIVE ON CORBY ST. BUT I DON'T KNOW WHERE I SO CALL COLLEEN £3885 IF YOU WANT TO GO TO THE REST OF THE GAMESI 
FOUND: Gold chain bracelet at Wedding­less Reception Saturday,10-3. It is gaining in sentimental value for my girlfriend, so reclaim it before she takes it for her own. 271-0573 
$25 CASH REWARD for the return of my leather aviators jacket lost in a drunken stupor sometime last week. The brand name is Midway. Please call Jeff at 3166. 
LOST: A long gold chain with a TIGER­EYE PENDANT, somewhere between the War Memorial and the Architecture Building, on Friday October 9th. There is a large tiger-eye attached with a half moon, six beads, and a bent clasp. It has INCREDIBLE sentimental value!!!ll Please call Karen al £1992, 143 B-P. 
LOST-spanish book, "Tanto Mejor",left in NOH. If picked up please call Mark 2151, after 8:30. THANKSif 
LOST (last week, In the LaFortune laundry room?): JOURNAL of tremen­dous value, within a blue-green Mead notebook. Please call 3308 if found. 
LQST: Blue Notre Dame backpack be­tween 12:40 and 12:50p.m. at bookstore 'Jn Mon. 10112. If you plan on keeping it, at least leave lhe notebooks at LaFortune lost snd found. I need them for midterms this week. Please don't be a savage. Call Syl at 31323134 
FOUND-in LaFortune-3 KEYS ON A BLUE NOIALUMNI ASSOC KEY RING. CALL 284-4425 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
FURNISHED 3 BEDROOM APT BEAU· TIFUL RENOVATED HOME 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS $400MO, HEAT INCLUDED 233 6298 
WANTED 
WORK IN JAPAN AND TAIWAN· un­dergrade end grade eligible tor En­glish conversation lnatructor posi­tions. Long and short-term poaalblfltlea, Including summers. Teaching experience not required; claaaea conducted In English. Good pay. Opportunity to study Chin"• or Japaneae. Plan nowl Write: China­Japan Services, 2505 I St., NW, Wash­Ington, DC 20037. 
OVERSEAS JOBS ... Summer, yr.round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, Asia. All flelds. S90G-2000 mo. Sight-Ing. Fnse Into. Write IJC, PO bx 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
I WANT TO BUY A MACINTOSH COM­PUTER. CALL 271-0962 OR 284-5338 
MY MOTHER"S BIRTHDAY IS NOV. 14 and all she wants Ia tlx to B.C and BAMA. I nead tour llx to each!! Also tlx to Navy and Penn. Please call LISA 283-3701. 
I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO FRI. OCT. 16 AFTER NOON. CALL KEVIN x3113 WILL PAY$! 
RIDE NEEDED FOR OCT BREAK TO BINGHAMTON-SYRACUSE AREA CALL ERIN 2732 
NEED RIDE TO UNIV. OF TOLEDO AFTER USC GAME, call Jay x2072 
HOCKEY REFEREES WANTED Join the Mlchlana Hockey Officials As­sociation and officiate In tha Irish Youth Hockey League. Arrangements can be made so that all of your games are In the ACC. To receive an appll· calion call 277-9901. 
Nead ride to PITISBURGH alter tha LSAT'a on Saturday. Will help with $1 Call Krla at 4132. 
NEED ride to Pitts. 11Yt6-101.24 Call Diana 4132 
I NEED A RIDE TO NO. N.JMYC AREA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED. OR THUR. PLEASE CALL CHRIS£1867­HELPI! 
HELPI I NEED A RIDE HOME FROM ST. LOUIS AFTER BREAK LEAVING ANYTIME AFTER THURSDAY. WILL PAY FOR GAS AND EXPENSES. CALL CHRIS AT X1145. 
FOR SALE 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI CALL 1-312-742·1142, EXT. 7316. 
SONY DISKS Why pay $2.80 or more? Support the MadMacs Macintosh User's Group and get high-quality, Sony 3.5" diskettes for only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at 283-2101 or stop by Stanford 136. 
For Sale--Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, Michigan Charming 7 room cottage. Gas heat, stone fireplace. Home newly remodelled. All new kitchen appliances. Enclosed porch adjoining kitchen area. Dining room, living room, 3 bedrooms, 1 bath. One block from private Howell Point Park with swimming and boat mooring privileges. Great home lor week ends or year 'round living. Ski resorts nearby. Owner $49,900. (616) 445-2219. 
I have 2 NAVY GA's. Already been of­fered $75 for the pair. If still interested, call SLUG at 3105. 
ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET TO WASH­INGTON D.C. FOR OCT. BREAK IT'S CHEAP-CALL BILL THE CAT £1506 
TICKETS 
$$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 
NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFERII CALL 1075 
NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5216 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 
WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then sell me your BC GA's so my sisters, cousins, and uncles can see the Eaglesloaelllllll Call Steve at 232· 9816. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX 
BC TIX 
USC-USC-USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DADI WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272-5417, ASK FOR SL 
NEED USC TIX. CALL DOUG AT 234· 6718. 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-346-2622 AFTER 5 PM. 
CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES IIIII I 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered for BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1489 
NEED 3 NAVY GAS CALL 2782 
NEED ALABAMA and NAVY TIX x3811 

Need USC GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 1111 Call Joe 287-4561 after 6pm 
HELPIII Sister and hubby need USC GA's (in pairs). Please call Steve at 4223 or I may never see my nephew againlll 
NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 6pm. 
FOR SALE U2 TIX INDY CONCERT 
CALL 2030 
HELPII NEED USC OR BC GA'S BIG BUCK$ BIG TAILGATORII CALL TODD 1355 OR SHAWN 2129 
I NEED 3 USC GA'S -KATHY 2909 
YOU GOTIUM AND I WANTUM. NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS CALL CHRIS AT X1694 
NEED TWO USC GA'S. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL PETE AT 283·3543 
MY PARENTS, UTILE BROTHER AND CUTE UTILE SISTER ALREADY HAVE PLANE TICKETS AND HOTEL RESERVATIONS. THEY'RE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM PUERTO RICO. HELP! NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL GIL AT 277-7261 P.S. I MIGHT LET YOU MEET MY SISTER IF YOU DO. 
WILL SWAP 2 USC TICKETS FOR TWO BC TICKETS. WILL SWAP 2 PENN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 BC TICKETS. CALL BILL STARR 800-343-2820. WILL ALSO BUY BC FOR $$. 
MY PARENTS NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC AND ALABAMA. CALL DAVID 283· 1997. 
USC: I need two GAs lor the USC game. Call Mike at 271-0765. 
BC Yep, I need two GAs for the Boston Col­lege game. Please call Mike at 271-0765. 
I NEED U.S.C. TICKETS IN A. BIG WAY AND WILL PAY BIG MONEY PLEASE CALL PETE AT 3506 OR 3498. I NEED UP TO 25 TICKETS FOR THIS ONE GAME. HELP ME OUT ..... 
Do you need $? Well I need 4-6 GA Navy tickets. Call 284-4648 day or 272-5578 evening. 
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY$$$! CALL SUE AT X4238 
HELPI HELPI HELP! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOSTON COLLEGE WILL PAY $$$$ OR TRADE UP WITH 2 NAVY G.A.'S. CALL ANNE AT 2764 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS! CALL DAVID X1817 
USC-USC NEED 2 USC GA'S I HAVE 2 BC GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH KEVIN 234-1208 
PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED A USC GA, NEED IT BAD MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE CALL BRIAN £3007 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY 3346 
NED 1 BAMA STU. TIX CALL TONY 3346 
I HAVE 2 USC GAS OR 2 ALABAMA GAS WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR 2 BC GAS. KATHY 289·2527 
Need 1 Navy GA for father! Can you help? Please call Frank at 283·2226. Thanks I 
Need 4 USC GAs together.! have 2 Navy GAs and $$$ call Kevin £1496 
NEED TIX FOR BC. CALL 283-4350 AFTER 5 PM. 
Needed 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud tix call Brian 1456 
Needed 4 Navy GA's & 2 stud tix call Brian at 1456 
USELESS SEARCH CONTINUES ... PLEASE END MY HUNT FOR USC TIXI CALL JEN £4387 
ROW ROW ROW YOUR BOAT DAD IS SURE TO PAY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONLY ONE NAVY GAl (DOES THIS SOUND DESPERATE, OR WHAT?!?) CALL JEN £4387 
DESPERATE FOR 2 GA'S FOR NAVY 
HELP I DESPARATELY NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL SCOTI X1640 
HELPII' I NEED ONE STUD. OR GA TIX FOR THE NAVY GAME. I AM WILLING TO PAY A LOT OF$$$$. CALL WILL X3119 
NEED 2 GA'S TO NAVY,BC,OR BAMA! KATHY £3607 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR ANY OF THE REMAING HOME GAMES JEFF 4364 
I NEED ONE TICKET (STUDENT OR GA) FOR THE BOSTON COLLEGE GAME CALL CHRIS AT 1561. 
ONE MUSKETEER NEEDS TICKETS FOR THE OTHER TWO TO THE USC GAME GA OR STUDENT CALL DARTAGNAN (CHUCK) AT 2443 
1 tic ftl Ohare to Calif. Price negotiable. Call Rex 232-5118. 
1£$% &"() Wanted: 2 GAs or STUs for USC 271-0611 
I'm a Satan worshipper who needs BC tickets for my boss. Seriously, though. call Kevin at ':3164. Willing to trade a Navy ticket. 
TICKETS NEEDED Wealthy Wall St. Alum needs Penn St. and BC tlx. Call Matt 1·800·223-6559. 
GIMMEE, GIMMEE, GIMMEE--2 BAMA GA'S WILL PAY FOR YOUR CHILD'S COLLEGE EDUCATION CALL PETE AT 271-0479 
2, 3 OR 4 GA'S NEEDED FOR ALA­BAMA GAME--CALL BILL AT X3366 
I NEED USC GA'S--HAVE NAVY GA'S AND MIAMI GA'S TO TRADE OR CASH TO PAY--CALL DAVID X1712 
WANTED: USC TIX !!! CALL JOHN 2236 
PLEASE, PLEASE ME--Sell me Navy GA'sl Call Jim at 2474,2457. 
I naed 4 GA tlx tor USC game. Please call Magan 284-4311. 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC. CALL 312-623­5328. WILL PAY$$$. 
HEY!I! I NEED FOUR USC STUDENT TIX CALL TOM AT 1245 •• THANXMAN 
SENIOR IN NEED OF .G.A.'s for HOME games, especially U.S.C. and Navy. Please help me it's the last time they can get lo a game. Call in the am. or after 10 pm. Thanks! Ann 284-5064. 
NEED FOUR BAMA TICKETS CALL GREG AT 289-6714 
I NEED 5 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON 2519. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's: Paul 234-8847 
NEEDED: 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR BC GAME. CALL CHRIS AT X1145. 
I've got to get 2 NAVY stud. tix if I want to live. X2669 
HAVE 2 ALGA'S. WILL TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL 312·833-3696 EVENINGS. 
NEED 10 USC TIXI 
NEED 10 USC TIXI 
NEED 10 USC TIXI 
You can't lose I'm daaperata. 
Mike (BOO) 345-2059 (Day) or 
(312) 761-2099 (Eve or Weekend) 
I need GA's for all home games. I need them bad!--honest ingen Please call Jeff 1699 
Need 6 USC GA's. Call Jenny 284-4154. 
usc usc usc NEED GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE USC GAMEl PLEASE CALL TRISHA AT 232-1345 
DESPERATELY NEED 10-15 NAVY G.A.'s AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC, WILL PAY BIG OR TRADE NAVY GA'S CALL JACK 2383 
PLEASE HELPII need one USC student ticketl Call Ellen x3950. 
I Need 2 USC G.A.'s Call Pat £3451 $$ 
Desperately need 3 or 4 USC Tix -Stu. or GA. Will pay CASH! Call 1793 todayl 
DESPERATELY NEED ONE NAVY GA FOR BABY BROTHER. CALL JOE X1631 
HAVE USC STUD TIX, DAN 1167 
NEED USC GAs CALL 2287 
HELP MElli nead many GA's for Boston College. Call Dave al 2238. 
SELL ME YOUR USC TICKETS BEFORE BREAK. DON'T GET STUCK WITH THEM I NEED GA'S. ALSO NEED BAMA TIX. STUD. OR GA. CALL JOE 2073 
HELP I I need two Navy tickets. Student or GA. £4421 
Help! I need two G.A.s for USC game. Call Nick at 3068. Thanks. 
NEED 2 GA'S EACH FOR USC AND ALABAMA GAMES. CALL BEVERLY 237-0600 EXT 234 
LETTERMAN WANTS YOU TO SEE HIM LIVE but only if you trade me 4 USC GA's. We have 4 Letterman tickets. Call 234-6183 or 288·8673. Don't disappoint Dave. 
I naed the following tlxs NAVY -2 "3754 
A. I AM INDEPENDENTLY WEAL THY 
B. I NEED ALABAMA GA's C. DO YOU SEE POTENTIAL PROFIT D. WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS CALL RICK 1817 
FAMILY WILL EXCOMMUNICATE ME IF I DON'T GET NAVY TIXI HELP,I DON'T ST WANT TO BE AN ORPHAN I CALL JOHN x3684 NOWI 
NEED 2 USC GA's. Big Bucksl Call Salem 288-2032 
Want to trade 4 BC tix for 4 Navy tix. Call between noon and 10 pm. 234-5735. 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC & BC. CALL 272-6282. $$$$$ 
Needed:Up to 4 USC GA's call284-5093 
Need 4 Navy GA's Call Debra 284-5479 
PERSONALS 
To that "never been rejected stud" Mike of Alumni.U've been black­balled at SMC(or is it 1? 
Help!l need 2 GA's for USC & Navy! Please call Marcie 284-4196 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
$$HELP!!$$ NEED 2 USC GA'S AND BAMA STUD & GA'S PLEASE CALL DAVID £3592 
USC USC USC I NEED USC GA'SI DAD WILL PAY $$$$ CALL MONICA AT X4238 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM! WILL PAY$$$' CALL SUE AT X4238 
ELIZABETH-ANNE CRISP: 
Only two more days until the greatest 
day of your lltel Happy Birthday. We 
miss you. 
Love, "Marne" & Becky 
WANTED: 
A FEW GOOD DEPRESSED PEOPLE 
THAT NEED SMILES. 
Just Cuz 
Balloons 
287-6043 
WE DO TAILGATERS. MAKE YOURS 
NOTICEABLE. 
Just Cuz Bellona 
287-6043 
906 Portaga Ave. 
ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Tuesday night: Bartending Demonstra­tion at 7:30pm in fhe Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
Wednesday night: Comedy Nite at Senior Bar begins at 10:00pm. 
Thursday dinner: B.Y.O.B. Cookout (Bring Your Own Body!) from 4:30 to 6:30pm at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Everyone Welcome! 
Make $15-25 per hour Before and 
During Home Football Games If you've got a selling personality and are energetic, you can make an easy $400 in just four afternoons. Make more if you work harder. Job requires working at the four lootball games, being your own manager, and selling like crazy for a few hours. Great product that all lans want. High motivation, responsibility a must. 10 people needed, including one group manager. Immediately call 312·348­8375, ask for Tom. 
KIM HURRY HOME FOR OCT. BREAK! NO ONE HERE FEEDS US BETWEEN MEALS OR LEAVES THEIR ELECTRIC BLANKETS ON ALL DAY FOR US TO SLEEP ON! 
SMEAG & SMUDGE HELP! I need a ride to Columbus, Ohio or to Athens, Ohio for October break. WILL PAY$$$$$. call Patti 284-5528 
BCSCSCSCSCSCSCSCSCSC' 
HELP-I need as many stud tix as pos­sible.Piease call Kathy 284-5531. 
OH MY GAWDIII It's the DSO QUEEN'S Birthday!!! 
"Peaknuckle anyone?" 
"I want to be you." 
"All I want is some mash action!" 
Happy B'day Berniell! 
Love...3 Fellow Pebble Beachers 
THEO MAJORS AND MINORS: PLEASE BE AT THE MEETING TONIGHT AT 8:00PM IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 

TRANSPORT PHENOMENON IS ON THE MOVE AND COMING TO PLAY IIIII I TRANSPORT PHENOMENON IS ON THE MOVE AND COMING TO PLAY IIIII 
WASN'T WILLIE LOHMAN A COUNTRY-WESTERN SINGER ? -MK 
JANICE TERPIN . ..and it may come sooner than you think! 
NEED RIDE TO OKLAHOMA FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL HELP WITH DRIVING AND GAS. CALL BRAD AT 4133. 
JUNIORS I 
DOGBOOK PICTURES WILL BE TAKEN MONDAY TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY NIGHTS FROM 6 TO 10 PM ROOM 307 LAFORTUNE 
ORDERS WILL BE TAKEN· COST $8 BRING YOUR CHEESIEST SMILEI 
~iEi:;;'(;:.jEi'Eo'R"io'E"';;oME.FoR'·iifi.E'Ak! 
I LIVE IN DOWNTOWN CHICAGO. CAN LEAVE AFTER 4 FRIDAY. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS. CALL THERESA AT \(2138 

Jim P 1 had a great time Friday.Thanks. Sue 
Julie I love you (even though) you're a goof! LJ 
YO DATES! ALIAS TEEK AND TWAN THANKS FOR SHOWING TWO OLDER WOMEN A GOOD TIME. SEE YOU AT THE BARS ON NOV. 19TH! THE FIRST TEQUILA SHOTS ARE ON US. P.S. THANKS FOR THE FLOWERS. 
SENIOR TRIP MEMBERS: MEETING 10114 AT 8:00 PM-LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATER 
usc usc usc NEED GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE USC GAMEl PLEASE CALL TRISHA AT 232·1345 

RIDERS NEEDED Going to Milwauke&Sheboygan WI on Fri. Return1ng from Durham, NC Sun. Oct. 25. Call Paul 2193. ••••••••••••••• 
MAGGIE FINALLY MADE ITI!I Happy 18thlll We love you, Patty. Allison, and Rosi 
TICKET NEEDED FOR BC GAME! CALL ROB AT 234-7168 
MADEMOISELLE, THEY ALSO SAY "LOVE NEVER GIVES UP: ITS FAITH. HOPE AND LOVE NEVER FAIL. LOVE IS ETERNAL." (1 COR. 13) 
••••sOPHOMORES•••• 
••••sOPHOMOREs•••• 
••••sOPHOMORES•••• 
U2 
U2 
LOS LOBOS 
LOS LOBOS 
INDIANAPOLIS HOOSIER DOME 
NOV 1 
TWO BUSES 
$35 PER PERSON 
SIGN UP TODAYIII 
SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE 2nd FLOOR LaFORTUNE 2-4 PM BRING YOUR ID 
""""DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS"""" 
WHO ALWAYS WANTED 
TO COME TO AN NO GAME? I do and they're counting on me. Please sell me your GA or student tickets for the USC game il you don't plan to be here. It'll make their day!ll 
Call Cathy £2488 
""""Thanksl!!"".. 
J MADDEN S IT COULD HAVE JUST BEEN A BAD CASE OF PHYSICAL LUST, YOU HOT BOD, YOU. MAYBE WE COULD GET TOGETHER AGAIN SOMETIME JUST FOR THE HELL OF IT.. ..HEATHER LOVE. 

OR BC. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261. 
REALLY NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR NAVY & Why can't JIM MILLIGAN get dates??

EARN $4 PER HR. FLEXIBLE need 3 BC ga's --call Mary at £2808 $$$$$$ NEED 4 BAMA GA'S CALL BAMA CALL LAURIE & JILL 1254 SCHEDULING, MEALS & EXCELLENT NEED 2 USC TIXI STUDENTiGA. $$ NO MARK 3592 $$$$$$ WORK ENVIRONMENT ARE AVAIL· NEED 4 BC TIX WILLING TO PAY PROBLEM. CALL (404) 392-1500 COL­GIVE ME A BREAKI Or at least a ride ABLE. CALL 277-2682 FROM 10 AM & BUCKS ANOOR TRADE 2 BAMA GAs LECT. ASK FOR STEVE JEGIER OR NEED NAVY GA'S-CALL 1553, ASK 
tor one to Grand Rapids MI. Please call 8 PM FOR DETAILS. CALL scon £1412 LEAVE MSG. FOR JEFFI 
Cecelia 2632. 
see PERSONALS, page 10 

Tuesday, October 13, 1987 The Observer page 9 

Rugby continues domination over foes 
The Rugby Club continued its season-long More than 30 boxers will compete in the annual domination of opposing foes with a 22-12 drubbing event in their respective weight classes. There will The Water Polo Club opened its home season with of Northwestern Saturday. The victory raised the be three two-minute rounds complete with judges a 12-8 victory over Hope College Friday night, but team's record to 6-1. and referees. Club President Tom Cashman wasn't pleased with 
"That's the best start since I've been here," "They've came a long way in that short of time," the team's play.senior Club President Tim O'Connell said. Club President Kevin Duggan said. "I think there "Overall, we didn't play that well," he said. 
O'Connell attributes the fast start to a change in will be some good fights." "We're just not playing well as a team, and we've the attitude of this year's team, which has resulted Many of the students that came out at the begin­been having too many canceled games. We have in a better team effort. ning of the school year have since defected, a fact some games over fall break, and hopefully we will 
"In the past, we've had a lot of individual jell as a team. We're getting there." players," O'Connell said. "This year we are playing Sam Bailey took the MVP honors in the Irish well as a team and coming together as a unit." Greg victory. The team will travel to the east coast over 
The Irish had to battle the weather as well as the fall break to compete against Boston College, Har­
Guffey

Wildcats to register the win as rain and cold com­vard, MIT, Massachusetts, and Connecticutt. bined to wreak havoc on both squads. Sean Higgins 
Club Corner

had two scores and Mark Conoley one score. Andy Shea connected on four kicks. The Women's Soccer Club won two games and 
"We started out slow and a lot of it had to do with tied another last week to finish its season at 5-3-3. the weather," O'Connell said. "In the second half, The Irish downed Clay High School, 1-0, and then we settled down and controlled the line of scrim-"If they want to do well, they have to practice defeated Loyola, 4-1, and tied Tennessee in a round­mage." every day," he said. "It's paid off for the people robin tourney. Against Clay, Kate Ttterton scored••• that have stayed and put the time in. They've looked the lone goal off an assist from Susan McCoville. good with the punches, and their defense has been In the Loyola contest, Titterton, Michelle Richards, 
After five weeks of preparation, the Boxing Club good. A lot of them will fight in the Bengal Bouts Susan Hailing and Teresa Sheppard scored goalswill stage its novice tourney Thursday at 4 p.m. at in the spring." for the Irish. the JACC boxing gym. 

******************** Golf finishes 9th on Nicklaus' course 
iC To a real Beastie, * By MICHAEL IANNELLI inclement weather and some of Berland (262) also added to the 
iC * Sports Writer 
iC
iC Happy Birthday, * iC * 
iC Spook! * 
iC * 

iC * 
The Beasties &* 
'·'\_the rest of * 
. ~the gang * -.&..-. ' ilL * 
**** *************** 
The Notre Dame Golf team played on a real "player's course" this past weekend as it trvaveled to Ohio State to make its first appearence ever in the 14th Annual Buckeye Fall Classic. Coach Noel O'Sullivan's squad closed out its 1987 fall schedule with a respectable ninth place finish on the famous Scarlet Course designed by Jack Nicklaus. 
Led by senior captain Dick Connelly, the Irish battled 
1-·--~~ct~;~~~EcONOMICSINTHis-TIME:"--1 

~ , by JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH 
1 
Tuesday, October 13, 8:00 pm 
I 
Washington Hall I sponsored by the Student Union Board 1 and the Economics Department I 
ITICKETS: $2.00 -available at The Cellar , 1Q/6 -1(}9 & 10112 12:00-1:00 pm & 4:00-5:00 pm An undergraduate recept1on. sponsored by tile Colieqe Fellows Office of the College of Arts & Letters and the Student Un1on Board, will be held from 
----------~~~Q~~Lg_____________J 

the strongest teams in the Mid­west to finish in the top half of the 19 team field, just two strokes behind 8th place Wright State. Ohio State, led by Gary Nickalus (as in Jack's son) won the tournament with a com­bined score of 902. 
Connelly finished with a three round score of 73-80-81 for a total of 234 and a top-ten finish among the medalists. 
Coach O'Sullivan also got strong performances from juniors Doug Giorgio (78-80-83­
241) and Pat Mohan (76-84-82­242), both of whom finished in the top 21. First-year players Paul Nolta (258) and Terry 
Lewis pounds SMC, 4-0 
By MOLLY MCNEILL sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team faced a tough opponent as well as tough weather con­ditions Saturday as it fell to Lewis, 4-0. 
In the pouring rain and freez­ing cold the Belles were unable to generate any type of offense against an 11-0 Lewis team. 
"It was a long day," said Coach Tom Van Meter, "Lewis Irish effort. It was a hearten­ing performance for O'Sullivan after a disappointing 8th place finish the previous weekend in the Notre Dame Fall Invita­tional. This weekend's perfor­mance upped the team's record to 37-16 for the season while earning the Irish an invitation to the next year's Buckeye clas­sic. 
"Finishing the fall season with such a strong perfor­mance," said O'Sullivan, "and in such a great tournament with the youth and inexperi­ence that we have really made me feel good about the charac­ter of this team. 
was a very good team and did everyting right." 
Lewis earned all of its goals, scoring twice in each half from outside the goal box. 
"They didn't try to work the ball inside," said Van Meter. "Ifthey had a shot from outside they took it." 
In the first half, the Belles had two shots that required ex­ceptional saves from Lewis' goalie. 
~-------------------­
Belles 
continued from page 12 
vanced them to the semi-final round where they defeated their host, Lake Forest College, 15-12, 15-11. 
In the championship match, Chicago State outlasted Saint Mary's by the score of 12-15, 13-15, giving Chicago State first place in the invitational while the Belles received a heart­breaking second place. 
"Although we lost in the final, we were able to pull things together offensively and defensively and see where we need improvement," said Suth. "It was great practice since we have two tough conference matches coming up." 
Junior captain Margaret Feldman played excellently throughout the tournament. She recorded 37 kills and was named to the all-tournament team. Other key players were freshman Katie Killilea who had 26 kills, junior Tammy Suth who contributed 24 kills and sophomore Mary McCarthy. 

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1987 

Sports Briefs 
The lacrosse team will have a mandatory meeting for anyone interested in playing on the varsity team today in the Swimming Auditorium at 4:30, p.m. -The Observer 
Trivia Night is back. WVFI's 'Speaking of Sports' will feature trivia from 10-11 p.m. tonight. Join the executive sports staff and win prizes by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow in the library auditorium at 7 p.m. It is mandatory for anyone interested and those who signed up for the Christmas Break trip. Any questions, call Christopher (234­6718), J.P. (271-9082), Maureen (271-0564), or Laurie (2656). -The Observer 
Tryouts for the varsity men's basketball team will be held Thursday, October 15, in the JACC Auxiliary Gymnasium at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 
The J.V. Soccer team won the Alka-Seltzer sponsored tournament in Elkhart. The Irish beat the St. Joe Kickers, 2-0, Saturday morning and defeated Fort Wayne, 1-0, in the final Sunday. Bret Bruder scored all three Notre Dame goals of the weekend. -The Observer 
Personals 
continued from page 8 
TO THE HOT SALAD BAR BOY WORKING D-E ROOM ON STUDENT APPRECIATION NIGHT: 
You are being scopedll You kept our appetites wall satisfied. Are you this thorough in all activities?!?! Are you really from HPC or did you just do it to get chicks? 
XOXO from the Satisfied chicks of North. 
ATTENTION PAM HELPI I NEED YOUR BC TIX, BUT I LOST YOUR PHONE £11 ANN MARIE x1367 
To Clem, The uHimate male and the only real man in our lives. L & J 
THE SWIMMER-Thanks for a kickin Friday night! (wink wink nudge nudge) The Crewbie 
Pat Fravel will be autographing last Friday's Obser­ver in 413 St. Edwards from 11 :30p.m. till midnight. Show your support for N.D. football. .. .interhall that is. TONIGHT! 
Heather: I may not have shown it very well, but I really enjoyed your company Saturday night. Thanks for being so sweet...see you soon, Paul 
Jim Thank you for friday night! lov ya, Jo 
To the lonely southern dude: You're going to stay lonely unless I find out who you are!! 
To Randy and Joa: thanks for "the best time ever". GOOD DEAL!I! Rosi and Pat-t. 
m~ DEAR N.D. ENCOUNTER 2 ••••• Aher five hours of sleep during the entirety of the weekend, Sunday's 1 0 hour sleep-a·thon was refreshing, re· energizing, and inspirational •• Much as each and every one of you were to me. I want to thank you all for making my weekend the great time it was. Remember that I love you and free hugs upon re­quest and we're gunna have a fun time .... ··George the Timid . 
............................................................... 
TO THE PE ROOMIES M: SHARE YOURSELF. I HAVE THE TIME. I WANT TO LISTEN. C: "MY ACCOUNTING GODDESS. WHY SO CONFUSED? YOU ARE ONE OF LIFE'S FINER THINGS." ? AND 
? 
Need ride to Dayton Ohio Thur&Fri. Share expenses. Cindy 2773. 
SCHLOPP IS A SLUTI AND SO IS HIS ROOM· MATE I 
Snuff, I love U. Will U B my Teddy Bear forever? Love, Puff 
To the Farley Drooler, Thanks lor a great time your SYR· Let's do it again, soon! Matt 
To my Alumni SYR date, MIKE , who brought me to his room & indirectly told me to put out or get out, I'm glad I got out! I just wanted you to know I made it safely to the shUhle by myself aher being so "graciously" escorted to the door. I may have been the first but definitely not the last to tum you down.· Your thoroughly disgusted date from Regina. P.S.Girls Bewarel 
To the dele from Hell eke Mike 1just wanted to remind you that SYR stanos for screw your roommate not screw your date. I hope you had a great night being rejected. Thanks again lor taking such good care of my friend. -another admirer from Regina 
TONITE TONITE Don't mias the Grand Opening of SMC's CLUB TUESDAY HCC Chameleon Am 
..................................!~~~..~.9.':':'.................................. 
TONITE TONITE Don't miss the Grand Opening of SMC's CLUB TUESDAY HCC Chameleon Am 
...................................'~~.'!..~~~ ............................... . 
·­
Need a ticket to NY lor break? Selling a rt plane ticket for $140 Call 264·4640 
H"~~P·;,;;~;;;j··;;d~··;~··M"Ip;si:··f.·~~·~..i~~-·a;~;;i;i;;i~;;;;~ 
call Betsy at 4326 
see PERSONALS, page 7 
NVA announces deadlines 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has an­nounced the following dead­lines: 
Tomorrow: 
•Water 
Polo tournament. Rosters must have at least 10 players, with at least four females. Water polo club mem­bers are not eligible and no more than two varsity swim­mers are allowed on a team. There is a $10 entry fee. 

•Co-ree 
basketball. Rosters should consist of five men and five women. All men must reside in one hall, women may participate on an at-large basis. There is a $10 entry fee. 

•Singles 
and doubles badmin­ton tourneys. Equipment and rules for this double elimina­tion, no division tourney are provided. Entrants must call NVA Monday following dead­line for first match. 


The executive board of 
Shaving Basin Enterprises 
and friends wish 
PAUL 
''TICO'' OESCHGER 
a happy 
21st Birthday! 
•Men's singles racquetball tournament. Entrants for the singles tournament must call NVA Monday following dead­line for first match. 
Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non­contact sports. Forms and more information are avail­able in the NVA office. 

DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 

~-Queen's Castle 
54111 ,.,...Lae, Across from Martin's. 
IN ROYAL PLAZA 23 

TANNING BED SPECIAL for ND or Saint Mary's students Unlimited tanning, one month 
Wolf Tanning Bulbs
$25 
Facial Tanner 
must make appointments ::.t time of purchase 






tD CREOL1. 

~t~ fitLucf/Vlwls 


UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES EXPANDED PHYSICIAN HOURS 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: open at 8:00 AM 
available during the lunch hour on duty from 5:00 pm-8:00 pm 

~---~--------~--------------------~----------~-­
Tuesday, October 13, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Mark Williams 
''Well, he's done It again! ... Curse that paper chimp!" 


·campus 
12:00p.m. -l:OOp.m.: SMC Center for Spirituality Women of Faith Series, Part 
IV -Reflections on four women who affected the lives of others and influenced 
history. F. Ellen Weaver on Simone Weil. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
4:00p.m.: Field Hockey ND vs. Goshen College. Cartier Field 
4:00p.m.: Guest Cello Recital by Laurien Laufman, at the Annenberg 
Auditorium. 
4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar "Regulation of Crustacean Reproduc­
tion," by Prof. David W. Borst, Illinois State University. Room 283, Galvin Life 
Sciences Center Auditorium. Coffee at 4:15. 
6:30p.m. -8:00p.m.: University Counseling Center Workshop Series Workshop on Anxiety,Stress Management presented by Dr. Timothy Onkka, ND Staff Psy­chologist. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7:00p.m.: First National Bank of Chicago Presentation-Reception for all Arts and Letters students and Business Administration students; Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn. 
7:OOp.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film, directed by Jean-Luc Godard, France. "Breathless," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Bartending Demonstration for Alcohol Awareness Week, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
7:30p.m.: Department of American Studies and the Center for Continuing Edu­cation Faculty Seminar Series, Theme: Reflections on Philadelphia: The Con­stitution and the Catholic People. "Six World-Historical Cities and the Constitu­tion," by Prof. Michael Novak, Welch Chair Professor of American Studies. CCE Auditorium. 
7:30p.m.: Program in Science, Technology and Values Lecture -t"Three Dilem­mas of Technology Risk and Assessment," by Prof. Kristin Shrader-Frechette, University of South Florida. Hayes Healy Auditorium. 
8:00p.m.: Ideas and Issues Commission of the Student Union Board Lecture by John Kenneth Galbraith, professor emeritus of economics at Harvard Univer­sity. Washington Hall. Open to the public. Tickets, $2. For more information, call 239-7757. 
9:00p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Breathless," with Richard Gere. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Reuben Sandwich  Chicken  Breast  with  Su­ 
Sweet & Sour Pork  preme Sauce  
Roast Turkey  Baked Ham Hawaiian  
Fettucini Alfredo  Shrimp  Egg  Rolls  with  
Sweet and Sour Sauce  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Ziegfeld et al. 5 Cut closely 
10 Plucky 
14 Pahoehoe or a a 
15 Eucharist plate 
16 Writer Wister 
17 Again 
18 Bests 
20 Relevant 
22 Is really hot 
23 Faction 
24 Snlggler's prey 1--+--+-­
25 --skelter 
27 Auto marts 
31 Smirch 
32 Wooden shoe 
34 Stratford's river 35 -too yong 36 Golf term 37 Self-esteem 38 Cheers 40 Jargon 42 Sketched 43 Lured © 1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 45 Most otiose 
All Rights Reserved 
10/13/87 

47 Notable time 48 Slangy assent 12 Gulls 49 On the other 13 Printers' units 
side 19 Gardener at 52 Set apart times 55 Snows under 21 Opp. of syn. 57 Prepare copy 25 Navaho 58 Lopez theme dwelling 59 Storage place 26 Speedy 60 Writer Jaffe 27 Certain terrier 61 Punching 28 Eclipse 
tools 29 "-her poor 62 Marguerite dog a bone" 63 Sultan of -39 Kind of job 
31 Parched 
DOWN 33 Prohibition 1 Tire 39 Saw-toothed 2 Byway peaks 3 Pudgy 40 Held In check 4 Plant of a sort 41 Pilgrimage 


5 Lives off of  42 Part of  a  
6 Own  casino  crew  
7 Used up  44 Gloat  
8 Sentence need  46 Zodiacal lion  
9 Beg  49 Certify  52 Rascals  55  - shoe­ 
10 Jungle  50 Cubicle  53 Turner  or  string  
denizen  51  -good  Louise  56 Medieval  Fr.  
11  Gl's truancy  example  54 Coup d'­ poem  

Wednesday 
THIS END UP 
& 
-playing the ultimate in party music 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24 
Thursday 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
Cushing Auditorium 



Sports
page 12 Tuesday, October 13, 1987 

Joe Sternberg scored the game-winning goal against USC­Spartanburg In overtime, giving the Irish a 2-1 victory and their fifth win of the season In overtime. 
Overtime, a good time 
Irish soccer escapes Spartanburg with title 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team, ranked ninth in the na­tion, had its hands full down south this weekend, but emerged as the champion of the USC-Spartanburg Tourna­ment in Spartanburg, South Carolina, keeping its unde­feated record intact. 
The Irish played a nail-biter Saturday night against the host, USC-Spartanburg, escap­ing with a 2-1 overtime squeaker. Notre Dame then hammmered Winthrop, 4-1, Sunday to win the tournament. 
In the first game with Spar­tanburg leading 1-0 by virtue of a goal very early in the second half, Notre Dame made things dramatic by waiting until 1: 11 remained in regulation when John Guignon headed one home off a restart to force the over­time. 
The Irish then dominated the majority of the extra period before Joe Sternberg scored un­assisted, volleying a rebound off the Rifle goalie into the right corner of the net. 
Sternberg did not expect tiny Spartanburg to pose one of the sternest tests the Irish have faced this year. 
"I was extremely impressed with them," said Sternberg, a junior from Rochester, New York. "It's amazing how far soccer has come down there and how the fans are getting into it. We knew coming in that they had done well in some big NAIA tourneys, so it isn't like we took them lightly, . but I guess we didn't expect over­time from them, either." 
Head Coach Dennis Grace echoed his starting midfielder's sentiments. 
"I'm telling you, they were the best team we've seen this year outside of Indiana," said Grace, the fourth-year coach who watched his team raise its record to 13-0-1. "We were bet­ter on restarts, and we might have worn them down in over­time, but outside of that, there wasn't much that separated the two teams. On the bus down, a lot of the guys were saying, 'Who's Spartanburg?' They showed us who Spartanburg was." 
With the ensuing 4-1 win over Winthrop on Sunday, the Irish maintained their ranking of second in the Great Lakes region, a notch below Indiana. The Irish are the only unde­feated team in the region. 
With their overtime win on Saturday night, Notre Dame improved to 5-0-1 in overtime games this season, and an as­tounding 17-4-16 in OT since 1977. Grace attributes the suc­cess in the extra periods to his squad's practice habits. 
"Our guys go through as much, if not more, of a workout in practice than they'll see in almost any game," said Grace. "We work hard in practice. After some games, we'll come out fresher than after most practices." 
The Irish will face the DePaul Blue Demons this Friday in Chicago. 



Team spirit underlies SMC tennis success 
When the Saint Mary's tennis team began its match at 11:00 a.m. Saturday against St. Francis, the players did not expect to be playing all night. 
Early into play the rain began to fall and forced play to move indoors. Unfortunately, there were only two courts available for the teams. The Belles were down 2-1 at this point and when given the choice of either leaving and accepting a defeat or playing in Joliet all night, they unanimously chose to stay. 
Saint Mary's ended up winning the match, 7-2. 
The never-say-die attitude is a trait common to the entire Saint Mary's tennis team and has helped the team attain its fantastic 12-1 record. 
The single loss that the Belles suffered occured at a time when the team was plagued with both illness and injuries. But the Belles have continued to play well and their victory this weekend is just another example. 
"The team is much better than last year," said Coach Debbie Laverie, "and we are playing a much tougher schedule." 
Laverie attributes much of the teams success to 
Belles take 3 of 5, 
the all the hard work the girls put in this summer and the combination of talent and experience. 
Charlene Szajko , a junior, and Jennifer Block, a sophomore, have lead the team with exceptional playing ability and past experience. Overall the team has depth and, more importantly, enjoys working together. 
"We help each other and have fun while we 

Jane Shea 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
play."said Szajko, "The loss gave us a jab in the side and helped wake us up." 
The two freshmen on the squad, Sarah Mayer and Mary Turk, have added to the team's talent. Their individual play has improved within the structure of the close-knit team. 
"We practice alot more than I did in high 


finish 2nd in tourney 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team won three of five matches to finish second this weekend in an invitational held at Lake Forest College. 
The tournament did not af­fect regular-season conference standings, so the Belles remain undefeated in conference play while their overall record changes to 13-5. 
The tournament consisted of six teams which were divided
.. 
into two three-team pools. The winner in each pool advanced to the winner's bracket while the second-place team in each pool went to the loser's bracket. The winners of each bracket then met in the finals to deter­

mine  the  champion  of  the  
tournament.  
The  Belles  played  five  

straight matches, testing their endurance and stamina as well as their confidence level. 
"The tournament really tested the girls and gave the team a chance to see where it can improve for the Saint Mary's Tournament," said Belles head coach Sue Medley. "We started out strong and played our kind of volleyball, but toward the end we had some mental breakdowns which caused us to lose the championship." 
Saint Mary's started out strong and confident with an easy win in the first round over 
·chicago State 15-7, 15-5. 

After a close 17-15 victory in the first game in round two of the invitational, the Belles proceeded to lose the next two games and ultimately the match to the National College of Education, 13-15, 5-15. 
The Belles regained their strength in their third match as they pounded Cardinal Stritch, 15-5, 15-6. This win ad-
see BELLES, page 9 

school,"said Mayer, "I have enjoyed playing and the team closeness. 
Saint Mary's practices three hours a day which includes running and lifting weights. All the hard work the team has been putting in certainly has paid off since the Belles have soundly crushed all but one team in their division. 
On Tuesday Saint Mary's has its last regular season match against Manchester College. The Belles hopefully will be able to keep their record free of a second loss. 
After regular-season play ends the Belles will compete in the Indiana State Championships which begin on Friday and will last through the weekend. 
"We should win the State,"said Laverie,"and then the team will go on to Nationals." 
While the team is very optimistic about the State Championships, the players realize they must con­tinue working hard so that the other teams will not take advantage of their mistakes. 
The Belles have had a great season thus far, and it looks as if they will ace the remainder of the year. 
Twins take Tigers, 9-5, for AL title 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Minnesota Twins, bucking inexperience and the odds, beat the Detroit Tigers 9-5 Monday and won their first American League pennant in 22 years behind the pitching of Bert Blyleven and the all-around play of Gary Gaetti. 
With the worst record of any World Series team since the 1973 New York Mets and the worst road record of any pen­nant winner, the Twins took two of three at Detroit to win the best-of-seven playoffs in five games. 
Tom Brunansky drove in two runs with a double in Min­nesota's four-run second in­ning, then homered with one out in the ninth -when the Twins scored their final three runs. 






