
Overcast
[ACCENT: Letters to a lonely God Cool and cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 60s. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 30 per­
J VIEWPOINT: Fight off-campus crime 
cent chance of rain. 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 28 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Attempted coup
North: My 

rights in Philippines
Associated Press of staff, said about 300 men at­tacked at 1 a.m. and there were MANILA, Philippines · At "propaganda" reports that the Associated Press least nine people were killed mutineers supported him and and 94 wounded when mutinous Enrile. Ramos, who has put troops attacked the presiden­down other coup attempts, said 
not read 

WASHINGTON -Lt. Col. Oliver North pointed out to At­tial palace compound early he remains loyal to Mrs. 
torney General Edwin Meese Friday in an attempt to over­Aquino. last fall that Meese had not throw the 18-month-old govern­The telephones of Enrile and read him his rights against self­ment of President Corazon his spokesman Sylvestre 
Mable were not ringing.
incrimination before North ac­Aquino. She was safe and ap­knowledged the diversion of pealed for calm. Enrile and Ramos helped Iran arms profits to the Con­Red tracer bullets cris­lead the civilian-military 
tras, according to testimony scrossed the sky during the revolt that drove former Pres­released Thursday. early morning attack at the ident Ferdinand Marcos into palace. Jleavily armed sol­exile after 20 years in power
Marine Lt. Col. Robert Earl, 

diers, backed by armored and installed Mrs. Aquino.
who worked as North's aide on 
the White House national se­vehicles, sealed off the area "I want to tell you, all my curity staff, also said North had and turned reporters away at countrymen, that I am safe and told him of asking Meese for a gunpoint. the Presidential Security 
delay of 24 to 48 hours in Col. Honesto Isleta, an Group is here and prepared," Meese's initial investigation armed forces spokesman, said Mrs. Aquino said over the 
the rebels were led by Col. private radio station DZRH. "Ilast November. 
Gregorio Honasan, security want to tell our people that,Meanwhile on Thursday, 
Pentagon sources and friends chief to Sen. Juan Ponce Enrile, first of all, I am all right and of Rear Adm. John Poindexter, whom Mrs. Aquino fired as Gen. Ramos is on top of the sit­defense minister after another uation and is in constant touch 
who was North's boss until North was fired and Poindexter coup attempt last November. with me." 
Fighting raged for hours Mrs. Aquino's governmentwas reassigned last November, 
said Poindexter is retiring folowing the pre-dawn uprising has weathered several coup at­from the Navy this fall after by truckloads of soldiers near tempts and conspiraces since the palace and government Marcos fled Feb. 26, 1986. She
nearly 30 years service. Retired Adm. Clarence 

broadcast center in suburban said she would summon the "Mark" Hill Jr., trustee of Quezon City. Cabinet for a special meeting Poindexter's defense fund, said The attacks occurred one day Friday and cancel a planned 
Poindexter "is very concerned after militant leftist unionists trip to central Luzon, the ar­about the image of the U.S. began the biggest strike of Mrs. chipelago's main island. Aquino's administration. Marcos said, "We are not in­
navy" and wanted to leave Honasan told reporters volved and there is no need for before any indictments, which 

Hill said he expected. before he and some of his men us to be involved in the Philip­During the public Iran­managed to enter Armed pine situation. The people are Contra hearings, Poindexter, Forces headquarters that the desperate, hungry, sick and 
operation was aimed at frustrated and are beginning to who was President Reagan's 
national security adviser, tes­"unification of the people, the realize there is widespread concept of justice and true hypocrisy, arrogance, tyranny, 
tified he kept Reagan in the 

freedom" and claimed it was disregard for human rights and 
dark about the diversion of profits from the Iran arms "not a military coup." senseless killing." 
sales to the Nicaraguan ''All we are fighting for is the Thomas Gomez, the Philip­Contras--an operation mainly children, our children and the pine consul general in Hawaii, directed by North. children of the Filipino said he believed the former 
people," Honasan said. president was directly involved see NORTH, page 7 Gen. Fidel Ramos, the chief but gave no evidence. 
VOL. XXII, NO. 4 



Student government plans for Malloy's upcoming inauguration 
By LYNNE R. STRAND cate his presidential goals in standing, and knowledge of Cooke, along with Student the "vision statement." doing the job. Though Notre Body Vice-President Laurie
Staff Reporter 

Cooke offered his ideas of Dame is known as great, the Bink, is a student on a 19­person committee that has
"A lot of people are anticipat­what Malloy may say in his job is not done and Malloy's 
ing the soundwaves Father speech. "He (Malloy) may talk there to do the job." planned the inauguration since Malloy will make" in his in­about where he would like to Noting that Malloy's speech March. Classes are cancelled auguration speech on take the University and see it will have a big impact on the and the Hesburgh Library is 
University, Cooke added that closed from 2-7 p.m. on Sept.
Wednesday, Sept. 23, said Stu­go; the Notre Dame of the 
dent Body President Pat 1990s. "the sheer fact that what he 23 in honor of Malloy's in­Cooke. "Malloy will put a new em­has to say will be reported auguration. A 10 a.m. mass will 
University President Father phasis on research at Notre widely in the media shows that begin the ceremonies in the Edward Malloy said he will Dame which has been known his inauguration is very impor­Joyce ACC, with an academic procession beginning at 2: 15
give his "first, major presenta­primarily as an undergraduate tant. tion after assuming the university. He'll want to make "Father Malloy is at the p.m. on the Hesburgh Library 
mall leading to an academic
presidency" when speaking at our graduate programs more helm now. Father Hesburgh 
his inauguration's academic attractive. Other schools are left Malloy with a wealth of re­convocation at 3 p.m. in the convocation. known for their graduate pro­sources. The changing of the Joyce ACC. Malloy, who assumed office grams, while Notre Dame is guard, the transition of Res­
Cooke characterized the
on June 1, noted that "in an of­known worldwide as an under­burgh to Malloy does not take class day off as "very unus­ficial way, the inauguration ad­graduate school. Malloy will anything away from Notre ual." Student Government will dress lets me give an official take Notre Dame in a new di­Dame. Hesburgh only left a lot send inauguration day invita­vision of the University." The rection. and it's up to Malloy (to do) tions to all students.
President said he would indi-"He has the wisdom, under-what he wants ... with it." 
NO Security to ticket 
By KENDRA LEE MOR­RILL Staff Reporter 
In an effort to increase pedestrian and traffic safety along the roads surrounding the Notre Dame campus, Notre Dame security offi­cers are now permitted to issue citations directly to traffic violators. 
According to Director of Security Rex Rakow, the new ticketing procedure which went into affect on June 1, 1987, had been mutually sought by both the county prosecutor's office and Notre Dame security. 
The accidents that have taken place over the past 
see SECURITY, page 7 
--~ -~-­

The Observer Friday, August 28, 1987
page 2 




In Brief 
An Alabama inmate who asked jurors in his murder trial to impose the death penalty then told his lawyers to stop their last-ditch appeals was electrocuted Friday, the first of four scheduled executions across the nation on the same day. Wayne Eugene Ritter, 33, who was convicted in the 1977 murder-robbery of a pawnbroker, was pronounced dead at 12:18 a.m., said John Hale, a state Corrections Department spokesman. In Utah, so-called "Hi-Fi'' killer Pierre Dale Selby was to die by lethal in­jection after 1 a.m., while Florida inmates Beauford White, 41, and Gerald Stano, 35, were to be electrocuted at 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. Friday, respectively. The execution of a Geor­gia inmate, William Mitchell, 35, also set for Friday, was postponed until Tuesday because his appeal would go before a federal appeals court in Atlanta. -Associated Press 
A jury that split 7-5 for acquittal in the Jello Biafra pornography case in Los Angeles declared itself dead­locked Thursday and the judge dismissed all charges against the punk-rock music star. As the judge announced there would be no retrial on the charges, the 29-year-old Biafra leapt to his feet screaming, "Yes! We got it!" and ran out of the courtroom into the hallway. Municipal Judge Susan Isacoff suggested Biafra and his co-defendant had learned a lesson from the prosecution, which centered on a sexually explicit poster enclosed in a record album. ­
Associated Press 
Daniel Engelke's art soon will be bobbing in Lake Michigan. But one fall squall could send it sailing toward Chicago. Engelke's "installation art" 40 clear plastic buoys that jut almost 12 feet above the water will begin taking shape Sept. 15 in Lake Michigan near Indiana Dunes State Park. They will remain in place about three weeks. Engelke, a Purdue University professor, has equipped the buoys with lights, the intensity of which is controlled by the varying power of waves. -Associated Press 
A near collision of a Soviet airplane and an American jet fighter over the ocean 20 miles southeast of New York was reported Sunday by a Soviet airline pilot, and a U.S. official said Thursday there is no evidence the incident occurred but refused to rule it out. Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said Thursday in Moscow that the Aeroflot pilot "noticed a fighter plane flying at the same altitude on a head-on course." "The fighter then veered to the left at a high speed and passed at a distance of 50 to 100 yards from the airliner," he said. 
-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Opening Mass for the 1987-88 academic year will be held in Sacred Heart on Sunday at 10:30 a.m. Rev. Edward Malloy will be the celebrant and Provost Timothy O'Meara will be the homilist. -The Observer 
Jazz Band auditions will be held on Sunday at 1:00 
p.m. in the Jazz Loft above the band annex east of Wash­ington Hall. Openings are available on all instruments, no prepared music is required, and amps will be provided for guitars. For further information contact Fr. George Wiskirchen at 239-7136. -The Observer 
An Engineering Book Sale will be held in the Engineering Student Center today from 2:30p.m. to 4:30 
p.m. The sale is sponsored by the Joint Engineering Coun­
cil. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................ Chris Donnelly Layout Staff... ..................... Jodi Topel ......................................... Michelle Dall Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton .......................................... Michael Buc News Editor ............ Ann Marie Durning 
Copy Editor . . . .... Rachael Jarosh Sports Copy Editor ......... Marty Strasen Typists... . .......... Jennifer Conlon ND Day Editor . . ... . . Jim Winkler Photographer..... . . . . . . . . Brian Mast 
The 0Mer¥er (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obltner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Obltner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tille Oblener is a member of Tille AJiodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Delivering pizzas is hard work for the dough 
"Hey, pizza man! Got an extra?" 
This is the time of year that pizza sales in 
South Bend pick up tremendously, as students discover t~e delights of ~he Dining Ha_ll and the 
meat burntos at "MexiCana, Ltd." JUst don't fill the tummy like Mom's home cooking used to. And how long can one live on stale Pop-Tarts 
and an occasional bag of popcorn?Of course, we all have to deal with the pizza man to get our pizza. Snicker a little bit as the Domino's guy runs to the door. Give him a hard time about the 30-minute guarantee. Tip? What tip? But have you ever tried delivering pizza? I am proud to say that I am a pizza man, after two stints at Domino's and the ever­popular Red Bank Pizza, which delivers pizza to Bruce Springsteen, among other people. I'll bet you think the job's a piece of cake, right? All the free pizza you can eat, right? Sit around a lot, right? Wrong. The weirdest things happen to pizza men. Like the time I was called to the intensive care 
ward at the local hospital. I walked into the room, pizza in hand, and the patient offered me a joint. "Hey, how's about getting me a six­
pack? I give you some reefer, man? It's goooood, man!" Unfortunately, I wasn't 21 at the time. 
One time I had a 25 pizza order to an elemen­tary school. They said they wanted to feed their classes pizza for Arbor Day or something like that. So I stuffed my poor little Toyota full of pizza and drove off to the school, only to be told, "We've changed our mind. We don't want any pizza." What do you do? Four pizza drivers can polish off the occasional bad order, but 25 pizzas? 
We had someone calling himself "Allah" come in and order pizza once. He promptly started a gang war out in front of the store. He didn't get his pizza. 
Of course, there's the usual assortment of attack-trained Saint Bernards, houses with no house numbers, drunk parties, and couples fresh out of bed who show up at the door in towels and bathrobes. Not to mention the abso­lute idiots on the road who drive less than ten above the local speed limit. Don't they realize that starving people are waiting for their hot pizza? Not to mention the starving driver waiting for a tip that may never arrive. 
The local police, strangely enough, are more a help than a nuisance. They don't seem to see us speeding through the local roads, though that · might have something to do with the fact that most of us have fuzzbusters and the cops get free pizza. And when you're carrying a couple 
Mark ~ Mclaughll"n 
<#'·· 
~ "'· 
Projects Manager 
4


------------ililtilill'llil
-..tiirii±liiilllllliiir'! 

of hundred dollars in accumulated cash on you and your car breaks down in front of a burned­out high school at 11:00 at night, they are aw­fully nice to have around. 
It is definitely a male profession, for precisely tha~ reason. Sexist that may be, but would you ladtes really want to deliver to the Pine Tree Liquor Store'fruck Stop at 2:30a.m.? 
It really is a good job, though, or else I wouldn't have gone back. The money is good, around ten dollars an hour if you're fast. It's definitely a challenge, especially when there's four pizzas on the rack with eleven minutes to deliver them all. If you're good, you'll make it. The not-very-good ones don't last long. With the first driver back getting his pick of the next run, the bad guys don't last too long. 
So the next time you order pizza, give the guy a break. He has to wear polyester. He has to run to the door. And he has to make an honest b~c~. Pizza men make horrendous flat pay ­mmtmum wage, usually. Their tips are their bread and butter. It's a real drag to drive like a madman through traffic and run halfway ~cross a campus full of college students laugh­mg at you only to get no tip. What's a buck on top of a ten dollar pizza? Be generous. 
Or next time he might drop your pizza. 

SObering

Advice . ; 

cansa~e
alife .. 

,. ~  i  
/  
*·..·  



!•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Activities Night ! : September 1, 1987 :! 7 P.M. • 10 P.M. ! : Stepan Center : 
: COME AND FIND OUT ALL ABOUT THE VARIOUS CLUBS AND : • ORGANIZATIONS ON CAMPUS AND GET INVOLVED!! • 
• ** IF YOUR CLUB HASN'T SIGNED UP f'OR ACTIVITIES NIGHT YET, • • PLEASE STOP BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES, .3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE • • BY AUGUST 28, 4 P.M. •
• 

Friday, August 28, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Shuttle booster test aborted, delayed 
Associated Press 
a plateau cut out on a Utah hil­lside. 
BRIGHAM City, Utah-A cri­When the third attempttical full-scale test of the new reached the 15-second point,space shuttle booster rocket en­test coordinator Roger Wil­gine was scrubbed Thursday liams of Morton Thiokol saidafter a series of delays includ­over a public address systeming two final countdowns halted that the test firing was with less than 15 seconds to go. 
scrubbed. 
Officials of Morton Thiokol With more than 500 VIP 
Inc., manufacturer of the rock­guests watching, technicianset, said the test firing would be from Morton Thiokol Inc. 
postponed until 1 p.m. Satur­counted down the firing test today. 
within seconds, then an­
nounced the test had been 
The 1.2 million-pound rocket aborted. Several hours later, 
was scheduled to burn for about the technicians were again 
two minutes in a ground test of within seconds of firing when 
four redesigned joints in its the test was halted again. 
steel hull, changes in redesign Shuttle program director 
that are expected to correct the Richard Truly visited the tech­
flaws that caused the Chal­nicians' bunker during the final 
lenger accident. countdown and told journalists 
later that he had told tech­
The redesigned rocket has nicians that if there was an­
other problem, that the firing
been tested in sub-scale firing, but Thursday's test was to have attempt should be scrubbed for 
the day. 
been the first involving the full, That problem occurred at126-foot rocket booster. 
4:57p.m.
National Aeronautics and In the first incident, officials Space Administration officials said, a cooling system that ishave said that the test is the part of the horizontal test stand most critical yet of the rocket failed. An 8-inch water linebooster redesign program. 
sprung a leak, said MortonNone of the series of delays Thiokol spokesman Rolandof the test was associated with 
Points of Interest
Raab. The water is used to coolthe rocket itself. All involved As most students have done at Patrick Monaghan pagethe back of the rocket aftercomputers or other equipment least once, Joel Williams and through the "dogbook" infiring.
associated with the test stand, 


Outside support sets new ND funding record 
The University of Notre 85 mark of $16,934,900 and in­grams, $309,087 and other pro­phatic support for research and reflected the goals set forth in 
Dame has set a record for out­creasing by 45 percent the 1985-grams, $1,091,293. Research graduate education at the Uni-the 1982 Priorities and Commit­
side funding of research, equip­86 figure of $14,114,079. funding has shown the best versity. He noted that post-doc-ments for Excellence (PACE) 
ment and programs in fiscal Research support, primarily growth over the last two years, toral students at Notre Dame Report. That report recom­
year 1986-1987, according to Dr. from the federal government, while funding in other areas had doubled over the past five mended that the University 
Robert Gordon, vice president accounted for $17,858,232. has suffered from federal cut­years. About 40 percent of fun-achieve a ranking in the top 
for advanced studies. Other· categories were backs, Gordon said. ding proposals submitted by 20th percentile in faculty 
The University received facilities and equipment, Gordon attributed the new Notre Dame faculty are salaries, a goal that has been $20,487,016 from July 1, 1986 to $357,652; instructional pro­funding record to increasing funded, he said, terming that reached, and that standards for June 30, 1987, eclipsing the 1984-grams, $870,752; service pro-quality of the faculty and em-figure a competitive one. Gor-promotion and tenure be raised 
don said the improvement also gradually but steadily. 
Wyeth Matisse Vermeer ---Rousseau / Peace studies program 
c ·o offers master's degree
9 
The University of Notre dispute settlement; and social
C) 
Dame's Institute for Interna­change for peace, justice and
c
·-LAST DAY li 
tional Peace Studies will offer human rights. an interdisciplinary master of Among the first candidates
E 
Q) :< arts degree in peace studies for the master of arts degree
!Q) 

beginning this fall. in peace studies will be fifteen 
a: OF THE (Jl According to Robert Johan­students from nine countries
Q) 

. ..., sen, the Institute's director of who will arrive at Notre Dame !CD graduate studies, Notre next month to inaugurate the
... ART/LASER PHOTO SALE 
Q) . -Dame's peace studies graduate Institute's International
·< 

program will be the first of its Scholars Program. 
E kind in the United States. "It 
0 is a challenge to create at Notre Conceived by Rev. Theodore 
Dame a model program for this M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president 
'Full Color Reproductions of the works of over 100 Master Artists! 
fledgling field," Johansen said. emeritus of Notre Dame and
'Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $12. 
"Of course, we are drawing chairman of the Institute's ad­
'Beautiful Laser Photos: 3 for $12. 
visory board, the International 
'M.C. Escher Prints: 3 for $12. upon the valuable experience 
'Impressionism to surrealism .... gained in the recent growth of Scholars Program will include over 500 different prints in stock! peace studies at many liberal three graduate students from 'This is Your Last Opportunity to Decorate Inexpensively! arts colleges and at other the Soviet Union, three from graduate schools offering less the United States, three from comprehensive programs." the People's Republic of China The new peace studies pro­and one each from Japan, gram will offer four areas of Great Britain, France, India, concentration for graduate Africa and Latin America. The study: international peace and students will live and work to­world order; cultural, gether at Notre Dame during a philosophical, and religious di­year-long effort to accomplish mensions of peacemaking, jus­an understanding of and an tice and respect for human agreement about the sort of 

rights; conflict resolution and world they would like to live in. 
SObering Advice;: can save a~~~:?"': 
Think Before You Dr1nk ~"" 
Before You Dr1ve ": · 
-----~ 
page 4 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1987 

..----~---··--------~--~------~-~---~ 
Friday, August 28, 1987 The Observer 
page~ 



Poindexter seeks to retire with respect 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Former Na­tional Security Adviser John Poindexter has asked to retire from the Navy, wanting to leave "with his head held high" and before any Iran-Contra in­dictments are returned, a friend said Thursday. 
Poindexter requested that he be allowed to retire at the rank of vice admiral, which he held while working at the White House, rather than the rear ad­miral's rank he was reduced to upon leaving his post when details of the Iran-Contra affair were disclosed last November, Pentagon sources said. 
Such a request would have to be approved by President Reagan and then confirmed by the Senate. 
During the congressional hearings to investigate the af­fair, Poindexter testified he kept Reagan in the dark about the diversion of Iranian arms­sales profits to the U.S.-backed Nicaraguan Contra guerrillas. He also said he destroyed a presidential document aut­horizing the Iranian arms sales as a weapons-for-hostages transaction, fearing political embarrassment if it should be­come public. 
Retired Adm. Clarence 
"Mark" Hill Jr., a friend of 
Poindexter's and trustee of his 
legal defense fund, said Poin­
dexter "is very concerned 
about the image of the U.S. 
Navy." 
He said Poindexter wanted to leave the service before Iran­Contra Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh obtains grand jury indictments, which Hill said he expected would name Poindexter. 
"He said he left the hearings with his head held high," Hill said of Poindexter. "He's in the position to do that from the Navy now ... I think it makes good sense." 
Hill also said Poindexter faced an "extremely difficult" prospect of trying to win a Navy job carrying three-star vice admiral status now, given his role in the affair and the possibility Senate members could block his appointment. 
Poindexter has no job lined up and will probably spend a year or so before deciding what sort of work he wants to pursue, Hill said. 
The Navy refused to discuss the matter in any detail Thursday, but did confirm that "Adm. Poindexter has an­nounced his intention to 

$1.50 

of Sports Illustrated with special interest.
1 ~~~-FREE DELIVERY I
I I
Discounts to Students 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications 
1 Hourn: 1
I Mon-Thurs 11-11 1 
for the following position: 

I Fri-Sat 11-1 234-4151 I Sun 3-10 I
.--------...--------1
\$''l Off 1$,1 Off .16" Deluxe 1~· 6 Item 
Day Editor (2)
'-· P1zza 6 Items I \: P1zza 1 


~---------------' 
For a life of ministry and for service among the People of God the Congregation of Holy Cross announces the Profession of Perpetual Vows and ordination to the Order of Deacon 
James T. Boffetti, C.S.C. Mark R. Ghyselinck, C.S.C. James B. King, C.S.C. Lucas C. Lamadrid, C.S.C. Wilson D. Miscamble, C.S.C. Philip G. Sopke, C.S.C. MarkS. VanWassenhove, C.S.C, Theodore J. Weber, C.S.C. 
Holy+
Crossh~
Fat ers 
For further information about the Holy Cross Community, contact: 
Fr. Micheal Couhig, C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: (219) 239-5385 
For further Information contact Jim Winkler atThe Oblerver Q39-5303) 
~~~~ALUMNI===== 




~!:CLUB 
SENIOR CLUB SPECIALS: 
Fri: Fuzzy Navels...$t.OO Import Draft. . .$1.00 Sat: Tangueray & Tonic. .$1.00 Corona. . .$t.OO 
* membership cards & application forms available at the club during business hours 
Hours: 9:00 pm -2:00 am Wed-Sat 
,---------------~
~ ~!~~~~:·:~~h~ ~:. Gctr/icl
I ,._ . ' ead Like many other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Hundreds of issues have been sold on campusI--~~ j. J.P. S PIZZA I students, Dave Twohy reads this week's issue since hitting the stands. 
•
Reagan: We'll keep aiding Contras 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -President Reagan told leaders of the Nicaraguan Contras Thursday that "we intend to see that you have adequate funding" until a cease-fire is achieved. 
Reagan, seated with mem­bers of the directorate of the rebel force at a round table in the Century Plaza Hotel, said, "We have much to thank you for. The political and military pressure you've applied, I think, is showing results." 
"The Sandinistas have now signed a peace agreement based on democracy in Nicaragua," he said. "Without the freedom fighters, they will have no incentives to imple­ment the (reform) measures they have said they will imple­ment." 
The six members of the civil­ian directorate governing the Nicaraguan Resistance organi­zation traveled here to confer with Reagan, their most visible supporter, after signaling a willingness to see U.S. military aid suspended in the interest of peace. 
Administration officials have said they will not submit a re­quest to Congress for new aid for the Contras before Sept. 30 -the deadline advanced in a U.S. peace plan for the leftist San­dinista government in Managua to show its readiness to institute democratic 
..---------------------~reforms. 
---~----~-~~----------~--,.-----­
page 6 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1987 

The General of the National Union ofMineworkers, Cyril Ramap­hosa, makes his way through a crowd of reporters after telling them "the strike continues," despite the fact that many strikers were recently laid off. See related story. 


Promotions and honors for ND faculty members 
Ten University of Notre Kenneth Herrick Professor of American Studies; Jennifer Dame faculty members with a Business Administration; John Warlick, Economics, and total of 281 years of service Gilligan, George Schuster Uni-Stephen Watson, Philosophy. were promoted to emeritus ~ versity Professor; Anthony Four associate professors status at the annual Presi­Michel, Frank Freimann Pro­were given tenure: Michael dent's dinner for the faculty fessor of Engineering, and Detlefsen, Philosophy; Patrick Tuesday (May 19) on campus. Robert Schuler, John Zahm, Dunn, Aerospace and Mechan­
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Professor of Radiation ical Engineering; Carol C.S.C., who retired as Notre Chemistry. Mooney, Law School, and Dame's president May 31, Five were promoted to full Patricia O'Hara, Law School. named the ten: Charles Allen, professor--John Duman, Bio­Promoted to associate Materials Science and Engi­logical Sciences; George provost were Isabel Charles neering; Adam Arnold, Jr., Howard, Psychology; Kwan and Sister John Miriam Jones, Finance; Frederick Beckman, Kim, Economics; David Ric­S.C. Art, Art History and Design; chiute, Accountancy, and Promoted to associate dean Joseph Hogan, Electrical and Daniel Sheerin, Modern and in the College of Science were Computer Engineering; Classical Languages. John Duman and John Kozak. Robert Mcintosh, Biological Advanced to associate fac­Sciences; John Mihelich, Eighteen were-advanced to ulty fellow were J ad wiga Physics; Peter Thornton, Law associate professor and ten­Piekarz, Physics, and Bernard School; Joseph Tihen, Biologi­ure: Barbara Allen, American Teah, Biological Sciences. cal Sciences; Stephen Wor­Studies; David Betson, Eco­Advanced to associate libra­land, Economics, and Bernard nomics; Bruce Bunker, rian were G. Margaret Porter Wostmann, Biological Physics; Karen Buranskas, and Michael Slinger. Sciences. Music; Craig Cramer, Music; Linda-Margaret Hunt was 
Three faculty members were Jeanne Day, Psychology; Aron advanced to professional spe­honored for 25 years of service: Edidin, Philosophy; Umesh cialist in Biological Sciences, Timothy O'Meara, Kenna pro­Garg, Physics; · Robert and four others to associate fessor of Mathematics and Howland, Aerospace and Me­professional specialist: Angie provost; Karamjit Rai, profes­chanical Engineering; Yih­Ricks Chamblee, Freshman sor of Biological Sciences, and Fang Huang, Electrical and Year of Studies; Sister Regina Albin Szewczyk, professor and Computer Engineering; Mark Coll, C.S.J., Theology; Joseph chairman of Aerospace and Jordan, Program of Liberal Piane, Physical Education, Mechanical Engineering. Studies; Catherine La Cugna, and Terrence Rettig, Physics. 
Other promotions announced Theology; Thomas Morris, Michele Gelfman was included four persons Philosophy; Kathie Newman, promoted to assistant profes­promoted to endowed chairs-­Physics; William· O'Rourke, sional specialist, Physical Edu­Yusaku Furuhashi, Ray W. and English; Robert Schmuhl, cation. 
South African miners fired 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -The nation's largest mining company Thursday fired more than 18,000 striking black miners, including 3,000 who staged a sit-in a mile un­derground, after their union voted to continue an 18-day-old walkout. 
The country's largest black labor federation, the Congress of South African Trade Unions, said it was considering a na­tional strike and other "solidarity action" unless the mineworkers' wage demands were met. 
Anglo American Corp., the company worst hit by the strike, said it fired about 18,400 gold and coal miners for defying back-to-work ul­timatums. Anglo last week 
Fulbright grant received 
Brendan Dooley, visiting il}­structor in history at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, has been awarded a Fulbright scholarship grant for research at the University of Venice, Italy, for six months between September, 1987 and June, 1988. 
Dooley, who obtained bac­helor's and master's degrees from Syracuse University in 1976 and 1978 respectively, joined the Notre Dame faculty two years ago. Approximately 1000 Fulbright Scholars will go abroad to lecture or conduct re­search during the 1987-88 aca­demic year. 
Established in 1946 by legis­lation introduced by former Arkansas Senator J. William Fulbright, the Fulbright Schol­arship Program is adminis­tered by the U.S. Information Agency with funds obtained from congressional appropria­tions and the governments of 27 other nations. 
fired 7,000 strikers, and said 14,000 more face dismissal if they do not return to work Sat­urday. 
Among those dismissed were 3,000 men who staged an 18­hour sit-in inside Anglo's West­ern Deep Levels gold mine. Anglo did not say why the men staged the protest, but the Na­tional Union of Mineworkers said the men were forced un­derground Wednesday night by mine security. 
The strikers were brought to the surface Thursday after­noon, given their final pay checks and driven off the mine compound in buses, some of the miners said. 
The mass dismissals came after union members voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to reject an industry proposal that offered slight improve­ments in benefits but no addi­tional pay. The union said it would accept a 27 percent paY. raise, instead of its previous demand of 30 percent, but the Chamber of Mines refused to alter its already implemented increase of 15 to 23 percent. 
With the strike again dead­locked, the Congress of South African Trade Unions -of which the miners' union is the largest affiliate -announced a series of steps it would take in support of the miners. 
Jay Naidoo, general secre­tary of the 750,000-member congress, said international trade unions might be asked to order members not to handle South African coal and gold. 


= ~Ihe-=Observer-
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
CARPET SERVICE OUTLET 
Room Size Remnants from $60.00 
2655.3 West U.S. 20  
South Bend, IN 46628  
.3 Miles West of Mlchlana Airport  
(219) 234·7478 BUS.  
234·02.35  




Join us for our "FRIDAY FRENZY" You can receive any of our delicious 7" subs for the special reduced price of only $1.99 
MATEO'S SUBS 
1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Friday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 

The Observer page 7 




Security 
continued from page 1 
year on the roads surrounding 
campus "prompted us to re­
examine the whole issue (of in­
creasing security's author­
ity),~' said Rakow. 
He also cited the construction 
of the new athletic facilities 
along campus roads as contri­
buting to the decision to change 
the policy. "The building that's 
going on increases the amount 
of students walking ... We 
gotta get traffic slowed down 
for pedestrians to have a fight­
ing chance to cross the street." 
Rakow said the jurisdiction of the Notre Dame security of­ficers extends to any roadways adjacent to campus. Among these roads are Angela Boulevard, Notre Dame Ave­nue, U.S. 31, and Douglas, Dorr and Juniper Roads. Drivers will be stopped for violations such as reckless driving, drunk driving, stoplight violations, and excessive speed, said Rakow. 
"We're responsible to reduce the flow of traffic to a safe level," Rakow said. "We want everyone to come back next year, unless they graduate." 

The previous system allowed security officers to stop traffic violators but not to issue cita­tions, Rakow said. Instead the officers would obtain the nec­essary information from the driver and would then file a probable cause affidavit, he added. The affidavit would then be processed through the county prosecutor's office to determine whether or not a violation actually had been committed. 
If the driver did violate a law,· then charges would be made against the offender, said Rakow. The entire process could take up to three months, Rlkow added, but with the new authority given to security of­ficers it should be streamlined down to around a month. 
Rakow said the increased au­thority will only apply to Notre Dame security and not Saint Mary's security. One-third of Notre Dame's security officers are certified police officers, and these will be the officers permitted to issue tickets, he explained. Saint Mary's secur­ity officers, on the other hand, do not have official police au­thority. 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dome and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications lor the following position: 
Advertising Design Manager 
For further Information contact Jim Winkler at The Oblerver (239-5303) 



Are youdenying yourself a better shot at grad school? 
Okay; it may be too late to get a 4.0. But it's not too late to try to do better on your LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT. For that, there's Stanley H. Kaplan. 
No one has prepped more students than Stanley H. Kaplan. Our test-taking techniques and educational programs have prepared over 1 million students. 
So whatever grad school exam you're taking, call us. Remember, the person next to you during your exam might have taken a Kaplan course. 


!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPI.AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER liD. DON'T COMPETE WlTH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7 Phone 219/272-4135 

LSAT CLASS STARTS NOW! 
Grants received for programs 
The  University  of  Notre  
Dame  received  $1,501,741  in  
grants  during  a  one-month  

time period this summer for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $1,147,901, includ­ing: 
--$145,086 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search predicting and modify­ing parenting in adolescent mothers by John Borkowske and Thomas Whitman, profes­sors of psychology, and Cyn­thia Schellenbach, assistant professor of psychology. 
--$142,260 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search by Roger Bretthauer, professor of chemistry, on lung glycoprotein synthesis. 
--$132,251 from the National Institutes of Health for re­search be Subhash Chandra Basu, professor of chemistry, and Manju Basu, associate fac­ulty fellow in chemistry, on glycolipid metabolism in tumor and transformed cells. 
--$90,928 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Stephen Lundeen, as­sociate professor of physics, on fast beam atomic physics. 
--$90,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by John Poirier, profes­sor of physics, in elementary particle physics. 
--$90,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Walter Johnson, pro­fessor of physics, and Jonathon Sapirstein, assistant professor of physics, on weak interations in heavy atoms. 
--$70,000 from the National Science Foundation for studies by Craig Lent, assistant profes­sor of electrical engineering, on the simulation of superlat­tice devices. 
--$68,781 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Energy for research by Randal Ruchti, professor of physics, on a fiber-optic detec­tor for the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC). 
--$52,965 from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Eduardo Wolf, pro­fessor of chemical engineering, on catalytic oxidation reac­tions. 
--$23,250 from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for curriculum development to study medieval civilization, headed by John Van Engen, director of the Medieval Institute and as­socieate professor of history. 
--$19,387 from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for a colloquium on the history of women religi­ous, headed by Jay Dolan, director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Cat­holicism and professor of his­tory. 
Awards for service pro­grams tataled $42,489 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $93,714, including: 
--$50,000 from the U.S. Navy for research on flow field meas­urements of stranded cables by Robery Nelson and Stephen Batill, associate professors of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering. 
--$50,000 from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for research by Walter Tomasch, professor of physics, and Howard Blackstead, associate professor of physics, on micro­wave measurements for high temperature superconductors. 
--$45,000 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Energy for research 
The Observer 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 1& accepting appllcaflona for the following position: 
Copy Editor News Staff Reporter 
For further lnformaHon contact Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at The Observer (239·5303) 
by John LoSecco, associate pro­fessor of physics, on non-ac­celerator high energy physics. 
--$39,936 from the National Science Foundation for a Re­search for the Education of Undergraduates program in civil engineering headed by 
Snite Museum of Art, adminis­tered by Teri Larkin, assistant director of the Snite, and Dean 
A. Porter, associate professor of art and director of the Snite. 
--$17,964 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Educaiton for the Jacob Javits Fellows Program, administered by Chau T.M. Te, assistant vice president for ad­vanced studies. 
--$750 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for work on Dryden't Annota­tions of Spenser's Poetry, ad­ministered by Greg Kucich, as­sistant professor of English. 



North 
continued from page 1 
Earl, in his testimony, said that in North's interview with Meese on Sunday, Nov. 23, North was confronted with evidence of the diversion. North, according to Earl, related that he asked the attor­ney general, "Since you didn't warn me of my rights ... does this count?" 
Earl also described helping North destroy documents cru­cial to the Iran-Contra affair and helping secretary Fawn Hall conceal other documents in her clothing to sneak them out of the White House. 
"I erred on the side of destruction," Earl said. 
Earl testified under a grant of limited immunity, meaning his words cannot be used agaisnt him in any court case. His testimony was obtained in four private depositions last May with staff lawyers of the congressional Iran-Contra committees and was released in a censored, declassified 
form. Also released was tes­timony by another North aide, Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Craig Coy, given in March and June. 
More closed-door testimony is expected to be released next week, including that of aides to Vice President George Bush. 
Earl's description of North's encounter with Meese on Nov. 23, two days before the diver­sion and North's firing were an­nounced, suggests North was mindful of potential criminal ramifications of his role in the arms-profits diversion. 
WELCOME BACK NMMC STUDENTS 
Indiana's #1 keg and import beer store 
CORK TOWNE 


LIOUORS,JNc.
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '• m1le wesr ot Mllfttn's Su~rmarlc~t 
m-6805 

-------~ ~-----­







Viewpoint 

Friday, August 28, 1987

page 8 
Simple goodness marks retirement 
"How was your summer?" 
Aren't we all a bit annoyed with ths question at this point? I have adopted the tactic of cheerfully responding, "Terrible! And yours?" Presymbolic language be damned. 
Matthew Slaughter 
and another thing 
What happened this summer? 
Well, let's see. Ronald Reagan managed to suffocate any remaining breath of life in his presidency by emerging from the Irangate hearings a shadow of his former regal self. United States foreign policy continued to bumble along, reacting instead of in­itiating, as the Navy sent a sizeable con­tingency of its mighty 600 ship fleet to the Persian Gulf, only to fall prey to that most deadly of weapons, the 1907 floating sea mine. The Cleveland Indi­ans crashed and burned; the Minnesota Twins soared. 
But what really happened this sum­mer? 
Mrs. Bishop retired. My fourth-grade teacher has, after twenty-five years, called it quits. Let me tell you about Mrs. Bishop. Slie was an institution in and of herself at St. Therese School. Sister Infant Mary was fair, but only in the sense that she threw chalk at everyone. Sister Theresa Margaret was a stickler for penmanship, and believed religiously that writing "I will not throw snowballs" 500 times would indeed affect a noticeable improve­ment. Sister Janey was the one who talked during choir practice and saw that the proper authorities WPre notified. Mrs. Bishop was different. 
Mrs. Bishop never punished us; she never had to. We students simply loved her. Something about her suppressed the little helion in every fourth-grader beneath that budding civilized human. In short, she had mastered the skill of making learning fun for us kids, a most rare ability indeed. Her true passion was astronomy. Her son Steve became interested in the stars at an early age, and she was swept up in his enthusiasm. Her favorite time of year was when astronomy was the science topic at hand. She'd drive us to her house during recess to show us the telescopes her son had made. She helped us make gigantic paper mache models of the solar sys­tem, allowing us the liberty of spaces­hips, dinosaurs, and other assorted per­sonal touches. She gave us shoeboxes with which we could look at the sun. And she even invited us over to her house one fine evening to inhale bowls of buttered popcorn and gaze at Saturn's rings. "Remember children," she would say, "you're on one end of the telescope and God's on the other end." Newton and his Enlightenment pals could not have put it better. 
I was so captivated by all this that Christmas I demanded Santa Claus bring me my very own telescope. Ed­mund Scientific Company came 



P.O. Box Q 
Help stop crime with OC network ­
Dear Editor: 
In the past week, as was the case during the beginning of school last year, there have been numerous acts of violence and vandalism in the North­east Neighborhood (between Angela and St. Joseph Medical Center, near the Five Points). These acts have been committed by persons other than stu­dents and, in general, are unprovoked 
Doonesbury 
and senseless crimes. I am trying to compile a listing of residents, residence addresses, phone numbers and hope­fully a map to be used in case these problems arise. A coordinated crime prevention network would be ex­tremely helpful in reducing the recent muggings, break-ins and vandalism. If you live in this neighborhood, which has a high concentratiop ofstudents, please contact me to make our neighborhood 
safer. 

TH/5 COI!iKTACTION5liJ5H fUN[) IS TH& GREATl3Sf INNOVtrllON IN 
lJ.S. INTUU$NC& IN A GEN&R­AT/ON. I'M PROU{) OF IT. I 
IJON'T tuANT 70 5l3E IT {)It; 
tu/THM£;.1 
Greg Rowe Off-campus 

through; I was ecstatic. Night after night I fumbled around my backyard, usually discovering nothing but clouds and mosquitos. Nevertheless, I loved it. But time saw my interest wane, and the telescope began to compete with the beer can collection for the basement's dust. 
One day this past summer, my dad aroused me from a restful slumber on the hammock to announce that we were going to Mrs. Bishop's retirement din­ner. I was less than pleased; the tee 
time had to be cancelled. Reluctantly, 
I donned my Sunday bests and it was 
off to the St. Therese auditorium. 
It was amazing. People came from everywhere-and they kept coming. Everything started late because people kept coming: relatives, friends, col­leagues, parents of former students, and, most important I think to Mrs. Bis­hop, the former students themselves. Refreshments were served, songs were sang, speeches were given. And then Mrs. Bishop spoke. She thanked every­one for everything, and, holding back the tears, said she'd miss the children the most. Her voice faltered, and some­one began to clap. Then a wave of ap­plause arose which simply did not sub­side. We all stood, expressing our appreciation for all she had done, while at the same time, realizing what a great loss her departure would be. The fes­tivities ended, and I felt extremely glad I had gone. I even caught myself drag­ging out my telescope once or twice thereafter to take a peek at God. 
Before we all rush off to the bookstore in existentialism, the third world debt crisis, and the fascinating world of dif­ferential equations, I thought it would be a good idea to take a breath and thank Mrs. Bishop for all she has done. Everyone has a Mrs. Bishop or two in their lives, and we must remember not overlook them for more "important" people such as Plato, the Ayatollah, and Kirby Puckett. What happened this summer? Mrs. Bishop retired. Enjoy your newly-found freedom. And thank you again. 
Matthew Slaughter is a sophomore gov­ernment/economics major and is an As­sistant Viewpoint Editor. 

Write to P .O.Box Q Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, In 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
I NEEO YOUR 

FORAN 085CENUH{)(J} OB­
613&1
HW', lJUI<&. I NEtJ? 

{){J5(£Nf3 SCENE?HAITI HAS
PUNNO,
~IAJIOCAN 

Ff3C., OF {)JFFtf?&NT I...V/Irl/l'll/IV"I
8/U.. I
t£A[) THe IUE64L. 

COURSe. /TY ':1/AINV~~I<
(j(J{A tor
COYlRlOPEPA770NS 
ONMY 
/
OF THIS (()(JNT{zy 
PLATE
INTD THe 71U13N7Y­
ANI?. .. ""-... 

~ 
FII?STC&NTURY! 
I 



Quote of the Day 
"Remember happiness doesn't depend upon what you are or what you have; it depends solely upon what you think." 
Dale Carnegie 
General Board 


Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief... __ . _... _----------Kev~n Becker Business Manager___ .Bnan P Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ..... Mark Pankowski Advertising Destgn Manager... _ Michael Whitton News Editor.. ................................. Chris Bednarski Advertismg Manager.. Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...... _ .......................... Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor... .. ...... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .................. .. ____ Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ___ . . __ ... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager___ __ -·------·· ......... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor . . Michael Naughton Controller ... .. __ ... . . __ Tracy Schinde-le as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editonal Board. Saint Mary·s Edttor.. _ ... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager.. __ Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor_ __Jim Carroll Development Manager _ _ Michael Shannon space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1966 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Notre Dame as God's little acre 
T 
he Glee Club helped gray evenings when I walked something magical to by myself along the banks of happen in Paris this spring. the Seine, and ate In a cafe Singing at Mass In Notre where no one spoke English. Dame cathedral. the chorus In a frame of mind induced members brought a beauty to by memory and joy, sadness the liturgy which lntenslned and desire, excitement and prayerfulness. pure delight, I started to pray; 
If, while hearing them, you halfway through, I was were distracted--by doubt or a surprised by a familiar Marian 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


sense of unworthiness-­
religion Itself was part of the 
distraction. Worries about 
what you would eat. how 
much you would drink. and 
where you would find a clean 
bathroom In Europe were 
temporarily forgotten In the solemnity of chants and 
rituals that touched all the 
senses. 
Then, "Ave Marla" was sung as a final anthem, and the ministers and servers of the Mass turned to face the statue of the VIrgin. Suddenly, every­thing that had happened coalesced Into a conscious­ness of grace that was an In­tuition of the truth, underlying mysteries, and the power of holiness was overshadowing the heart and mind. You were left breathless with an ap­preciation of the faith sym­bols of the Mass, and the ca­thedral, and of devotion to the Queen of heaven to whom hymn sung by student voices I know from home. The hymn was half an answer to my prayer, and a sign that God was close, offering me an In­sight Into the meaning of the pageantry with which crea­tures come to adore Him In His holy temple. 
Transfiguration trips are hard to describe adequately; mine wasn't such a classic that you need to hear about It; perhaps It was totally emotional, un­worthy of God's notice; but I believe He allowed me a religi­ous experience. Since I fly blind so often that belief pleases me. Perhaps you fly blind, too. UND, as you can tell from the saints and statues, regards Itself as a holy place, where an experience of God could be a part of the educa­tion. So you pray at the Grotto, go to confession, and attend Mass every week; and you walt for the sun to dance, or the 
miracle to happen, or for your soul to be bathed In light. Nothing happens worth writing homw about. You join a prayer group, read the Bible, and hope to start speaking in tongues; again, the Holy Spirit disappoints you. You can walt until you graduate for someone to tell you how to make God start happening In your life. Nobody will, and perhaps nobody can, not even the born­again Christians. The born­agains may be sincere; but their shortcuts to salvation can leave you disappointed or embittered. 
The "Jews For Jesus" were In London, evangelizing Oxford this street this summer; they said: "Hello, reverend: have you accepted Jesus as your per­sonal saviour?" I've accepted Jesus as my Saviour a couple of hundred times; It's never been clear If He accepted me as a sinner. I could say:"''m washed In the blood of the lamb. Glmme a cigarette." The "Jews For Jesus" don't believe In cigarettes or whiskey; and they don't believe in me as a born-again as long as I have a taste for either. The "Jews For Jesus" offer cheap grace from the Cross; but cheap grace never heals me in the way they promise. Accepting Jesus as my personal saviour Is another act of blind faith, which leaves me as half-dead In my sins as I always was. 
Prometheus stole fire from the gods; he must be the role model of the televangelists preaching religion. They offer to do for you what only God can do: forgive your sins; heal your sickness; give you victory over the grave; deliver you blessings ·If you will send 

them money. 
One preacher was keeping his dead mother packed In dry Ice, until he could bring her back to life like Lazarus. They entitle their programs "the hour of power." They go on stage as self-proclaimed miracle workers. They put on performace In which they seem to manipulate God In helping them Jive up to their billings as stars. 
God has promised to be present where two or three are gathered. He commands us to serve Him through our kind­ness to the least of His breth­ren. He says that It's a lie to say that we love Him, unless He Is first visible to us In our neighbors. 
Does God "happen" at Notre 
Dame? he Is present to us In 
the holiness of other people. 
We may want His glory to be 
naked before our eyes or to 
feel Him In some premeditated 
way that leaves us feeling 
drunk. But the hidden God Is 
more Indirect: He could If He 
wished, shake down the stars 
before our eyes, then then fling 
them back to their places In 
the heavens. Instead, He Is 
quietly present In the love we 
feel at Mass, or In the peace He 
leaves with us when He for­gives our sins. Answers to prayer usually have ambiguity In them; divine Intervention can look like a series of happy colnclndencs. In so much that happens, the unexplainable occurs which you can't really pinpoint; the Glee Club slings, and their performance climaxes In an unbearable Intensity that Is more than the sum of the talents of the members. You are left wanting to pray In thanksgiving. because for a moment you are not flying blind. 
can you make God "happen" at Notre Dame? You can be present to your neighbor In a way that leaves you open to God's use. Your thoughtfulness can make your neighbor feel less lonely, because God sup­ports your human warmth with His spiritual warmth. Thomas said, "Show us the Father." Jesus answered, "He who has seen me has seen the Father." The neighbor who has met the one whom Jesus sent --on an errand of mercy, to lend a hand, to speak an encouraging word --has seen Jesus. 
Why Is Notre Dame a special place? Because we are reminded so often to be con­scious of Jesus. When we have that awareness, we are Jesus­people united by the tie that binds, and God happens In us, through us, with us. Every year, the graduates say, "Notre Dame Is special because of the people." This Is another way of saying that the campus Is a religious place. 
the singing was directed. You could half Imagine she was there in her medieval 

Making room for
court. receiving the homage 
of Parisians, showing herself 
as the one whom they some­
times trusted as Our Lady of 

tomorrow's students 
Paris. I wept, and I saw tears 
JOE BUCOLO modate ~he Increased number 
on the faces of men and wo­senior starr reporter of women'.' rwo·tiew dorms men around me, and every­would have to be constructed. 
one I spoke to was ecstati­
D
uring these first few hectic The dorms, begun last April, cally happy from feeling close days of school. Notre are known as Knott and to God. 
Dame students are sure to Siegfried. They will be twins to As a Christian, I'm still encounter some changes on the Pasquerlllas. Both will be struggling with dally doubts. 
campus. Swarms of women are four stories tali and house Religiously, It takes a lot to leaving the doors of Howard about 250 women each. As Impress me; I could get bored Hall. South Dining Hall has construction progresses, the while watching a miracle at lines which boast titles that now-visible grey blocks and Lourdes. The members of the actually make you feel like girders will be covered by the Glee Club, great as they are, you're about to encounter same brown brick that is seen don't sing the crowd Into a something good. On the Mod on the Pasquerlllas.
mood for visions. 
Quad are two structures, which floor will feature laundrySo what happened? A will soon be new dorms. facilities as well as studydozen things were hapn~>nlna It all started when the Univer­lounges, said Donald Dedrick. 
simultaneously; The M~-­sity decided to increase the director of the Notre Dame heard In French was elegant number of women It would ac­physical plant. 
and delightful; the afternoon cept each year. Beginning this Once the dorms sun appeared briefly to Il­year, 150 more women per are completed, the "Mod Qaud"luminate the rose window. 
year are enrolling at Notre will house the University's high­Several thousand people Dame. est concentration of women.
received the Eucharist. 
As a result. the men of Also, there Is already talk of a 
I recalled other years when Howard are just a memory. replacement name for the "Mod I came to Notre Dame for The transformation of Quad." With six dorms on It Masses that were so fulfilling. Howard was not the only the quad may soon be known I forgave Paris for the lonely, change, however. To accom-as "The Six Pack." 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

W WAP t(,\p NAt 

-

, 

page 10 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1987 

interested in Joining the O.C. team, coaching or being a 
captain. Those interested should call NVA at 239-6100. -The 
Observer 

AL Roundup 

Lloyd Moseby and the Toronto Blue Jays downed Oakland, 9-4, Thursday night to move into a first-place tie with Detroit in the AL East. 


Royals earn Wathan victory in first game 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.-George Brett homered with two outs in the bottom of the lOth inning to give the Kansas City Royals and new Manager John Wathan a dramatiC 3-2 victory over the Texas Rangers Thursday night. 
Brett hit his 17th homer on a 2-1 pitch from reliever Dale Mohorcic, 6-4, who came off the disabled list earlier in the day. John Davis, 3-0, pitched 1 V3 in­nings for the victory. 
On Thursday afternoon, the Royals fired Billy Gardner as manager. Wathan, who was in his first year as manager of the Royals' Class AAA team at Omaha, was given the job after it was turned down by coach Hal McRae, the team's batting instructor and former desig­nated hitter, General Manager John Schuerholz said. 

Gardner took over the Royals when Dick Howser resigned Feb. 23 because of a brain tumor. Under Gardner, the Royals were 62-64, fourth in the American League West. 
Jays 9, A's 4 
TORONTO -George Bell drove in five runs with a grand slam and a double and Jimmy Key pitched two-hit ball for six innings as the Toronto Blue Jays defeated the Oakland Ath­letics 9-4 Thursday night. 
The victory moved Toronto into a first-place tie with the idle Detroit Tigers in the Amer­ican League East while the A's slipped a game behind the Min­nesota Twins in the AL west. 
Key, 15-6, allowed two hits and four runs in the first before getting an out and then retired 18 straight batters. Key missed his last start because of a tired arm. Mark Eichhorn, Jeff Mus­selma~ and Tom Henke pitched the last three innings, allowing no hits. 
Trailing 4-1 in the fifth, the Blue Jays' Fred McGriff and Nelson Liriano walked against starter Steve Ontiveros, and reliever Greg Cadaret, 3-2, walked Tony Fernandez to load the bases. Bell followed with his 39th homer of the season. 

O's 9, Angels 5 
BALTIMORE -Eddie Mur­ray went 4-for-4, including his 303rd career home run to equal Boog Powell's club record, and Ray Knight and Cal Ripken each drove in three runs as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Cal­
ifornia Angels 9-5 Thursday 
night. 
Murray, who also had three singles, led off the second in­ning with his 28th homer of the season to tie the score 1-1. 
Murphy's HR, Smith's arm lead Braves over Cubs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Dale Murphy's two-run homer, his 35th, backed the six-hit pitching of Zane Smith to give the Braves a 5-2 victory over Chicago in the opening of a doubleheader. 
The second game was suspended in the top of the eighth becaue of darkness with the Cubs leading 8c6 and will have to be completed at a later date, although the two teams are not scheduled to meet again this year. All the records count, including the five home runs by the Cubs. 
Smith, 14-7, walked one and struck out three as the Braves stretched their winning streak to five games in the opener. It was Smith's first victory over the Cubs, the only National League team he had not defeated. 
The game was tied 2-2 when Gerald Perry led off the fifth with a triple off loser Jamie Moyer, 10-11, and scored on Gary Roenicke's sacrifice fly. 
In the second game, Leon Durham hit a pair of two-run homers and Jerry Mumphrey, Keith Moreland and Andre Dawson also homered to give the Cubs an 8-6 lead. 
It was Dawson's 14th homer this month, breaking a 57-year­old Cub record. 

n.oe..-Notre Dame office, located on lbe third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, .a:epts classified ~fronl18 Lm. until 4 p.m., Menday through Friday. n.oe..-Saint ~offlce, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfteda fr'Oift 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day clealfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claalfleda muat
Classifieds be pnlpUI, either In peraon or by mell. The -.ge Ia 10 cents per fl1le ct.M:tara par day. 
NOTICES 
DOES your group need aT-shirt design? How about T-shirts or other imprinted sportswear?? I work thru a local T-shirt shop--reasonable prices. Call John at 1662. 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949; H: 277-8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277-1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: ONE DISGUSTINGLY UGLY PLANET OF THE APES DOLL AT CAMPUS VIEW LAST WEEKEND. IT WAS WEARING AN EQUALLY UGLY DRESS. CLAIM SOON AND WE MAY STOP DOING DISGUSTING THINGS TO IT. 
PLEASEII Whoever accidently took my small, upholstered PINK ARM CHAIR and laminated wood BOOKCASE from ALUMNI HALL STORAGE please call Eileen at 271-0952. I can't alford new furniture. THANK YOUI 
LOST-LOST-LOST I left my pink jean jacket on one of the Senior Class buses that went to Chicago Wednesday. The bus company doesn't have it, so some nice concerned Domer must have picked ~ up lor me. Thanks a million!lll Please call the Senior Class Office at £239-5136 and ask for Amy so I can thank you and pick ~ up. II no one is in, please leave a message on the answering machine. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219-291-7153. 
House For Rent. Convenient to bus line. 5 bedrooms, 2 full baths, 2 large living11tudy rooms. $65c>tnonth plus utilities. Could rent as 2 separate 2 bedroom units $40c>tnonth utilities in­cluded. Call for appointment 232-9239. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288-0955>255-3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-6889 
HOUSE FOR RENT-7BEDROOMS,2 BATHS,OFF STREET PARKING,WASHEA&DRYER, 2 REFRIGERATORS. NEAR ND,RENT NEGOTIABLE. MAY BE RENTED BY ROOM. CALL DEBBIE AT 288-6740 BEFORE 8PM. 
NEED Third housemate for 3 bedroom house. On Bulla Ad. Friend dropped out. Call Tom or Mike. 272-3763 
WANTED 
SITTER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 
P.M. TUES. THAU FRI. CALL AFTER 8:30P.M. 259-9110. 
EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut Delivery has openings for delivery drivers. Start at $4.00 per houretipsegas reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips are paid daily.) We offer flexible schedule, meals, and a great work en­virement. You must be 18 years old with a car, insurance, and drivers licence. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em­ployer. Call 277-2662. 
WANTEDTickets for NO vs. UM, NO vs. MSU,and NO vs. Navy call Wendy at 2338 
Caring person needed to watch 3 pre­school children in our home 2 afternoons a week. Close to NO. Tuesdays and Fridays preferred. $3.50 per hour. 232­7273. 
Responsible part-time clerical help wanted. 232-9918. 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON I 
FOR SALE 
'80 PLY. HORIZON. 4 DR. HATCHBACK. DEPENDABLE TRANS­PORTATION. 1.7 LITRE, 4 CYL. ENG., IVT, M:, DELUXE WINDSHIELD WIPERS, CRUISE CONTROL, H.D. SUSPENSION, TINTED GLASS, AM RADIO, ELECT. REAR WINDOW DEFROST. COMPLETE SERVICE RECORD AND SERVICE MANUAL IN­CLUDED. NO OIL BURNER, GOOD TIRES. PRICE $950 FIRM. 288-0366. 
76 DUSTER, runs great, 76,000 miles, FM casseHe, $500 232-6244. 
...................................................... 
For Sale: Compugraphics UniseHer Jr., font strips, and width cards. Direct all inquiries to the Systems Manager of The 
Observer. 
Movie posters for dorm rooms. All kinds. Large selection. 277-5441 
Mac 512K wtase, $950 or best offer. 654-3323, leave message. 
2 CARPETS 4 SALE 
1 EX LARGE RUST SHAG WAD PERFECT COND. $25 1 REG. ORANGE 
$15 PRICE NEG, ANDY 1434 

TICKETS 
HELP !! I need three Michigan State GA's. Please call 283-2059 and ask for Paul. 
IN DESPARATE NEED OF GA'S: 5 USC, 4 NAVY, 2 BAMA. Call MaH at x1076. 
NEED NAVY FOOTBALL TICK­ETS,CALL JOHN £ 36841 
WANTED: AT LEAST 2 USC TICKETS FOR OCT. 24. CALL 1120 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 
Have 2 tix for Mich. State. Will trade for Navy or B.C. Call 717 339-3141. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
TOM REHDER:! wish I could've gotten to know you last year.Maybe this semester...Have a great season. An ad­mirer lrom 20thc.ww class. 
TM Observer is now accepting applica­tions in the BUSINESS DEPARTMENT. A job that will look great on your resume. SEE TRACY. 
You think it's easy getting job offers in accounting? It is if you work for us. SEE TRACY. 
WAKE UPI 

Delivery & Counter Help Wanted Yellow Submarine 272-4453 
Foreigner's Bible Study II you know liHie or nothing about Christianity, but want to learn, this is for you. Foreigners especially welcome, we will try to use simple English. For more information, campus-mail your name and address to Andreas Krueger, 31 0 Dept. of Mathe­matics, or call 8-10 p.m. 287 4855. 
IV, IVCF, INTER-VARSITY, INTER­VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP. We are a group of atudenta lludylng the Bible together. We welcome you. Call Karel 256 1684 alter 5. 
BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY TONS OF SANDIII FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY 
SENIOR TIX APPLICATIONS WANTED FOR $$$ CALL 2376 
Colleen " Holly " Wagner : Do you return phone calls from upperclassmen ? I wonder sometimes ..•.•. 
BUZZ & ICE--Bunji cords and Matchbox cars... What more could 2 girls ask lor? Ooooh, we can't waitl Love, ICK & 01 
P.S. No, we never talk. 
Notre Dame Squash Club We are UNSQUASHABLE II 

································· ···························· 
To D.H.C.: Mhough its a day late it is the thought that counts. Hope you had a good birthday. Love Always, C.B. 
Holly -So when are you going to take me out ? That's what freshmen are for, you know, to spoil upperclassmen ..... 
I've got a headache already 

Freshmen & Sophomores: A chance to earn a leadership scholarship worth $25,000-$36,000. Contact Mark Gatto Army ROTC 239-6264 
Freshmen & Sophmores:Want to go rap­palling? Build a rope bridge? Ay I n helicopters? Earn a full scholarship pius $100 a month. Contact Mark GaHo Army ROTC 23&-6264 
CHIPS! CHIPSI Tues. Nite! blank generation 
.............................................................. 
blank generation: Chips -tues. nite Yes they'll perform Sabrina's House of Sin, Kumbaya and other Rick Carton favorites. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER­VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER· VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEM­BER 1. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS REGISTER FOR ON-CAMPUS INTER· VIEWS AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY TUESDAY, SEPTEM­BER 1. 
Hi Laura! all my instincts, they return (givenI) 
Need 6 Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0756 
Will George talk to you? 
Guess who broke the table. 
SAGA lives 
HE'S BACK! Aller e aucceaalul summer of Commie hunting the Megple retumato NO. The queatlon Ia will thla paychotlc killer take virgin ground on the 21 at Women beware. 


Streak may be done, but Molitor still going 
r----------~---------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~--------------~-----------­
Friday, August 28, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE-Paul Molitor showed no sign of a letdown a day after his hitting streak was ended at 39 games. 
He had a double and a single as his Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cleveland Indians 4-3 Thursday. 
Before the game, Molitor obliged the Cleveland rookie pitcher John Farrell, who stopped the streak Wednesday night, and presented Farrell with the autographed baseball he had requested as a souvenir of a "fantastic week." 
"It's a piece of nostalgia and I wanted a physical object to remember it by," Farrell said. 
"Wishing you a great career. My best always," Molitor wrote on the baseball that Far­rell cradled in his glove. 
"Things have happened real fast to me and it just hasn't sunk in for sure," said the 25­year-old Farrell, who held Molitor hitless in four at-bats while making only his second major league start. 
"I was just fortunate to be presented with that situation. Everything just worked out. It could have been coincidence. I was just in the right spot at the right time." 
The end of Molitor's streak, one that began July 16, came as he stood in the on-deck circle watching teammate Rick Man­ning single in the winning run in the lOth inning. 
Manning's hit won the game 1-0, but because it denied Molitor a fifth at-bat, it drew boos from a County Stadium1 crowd of 11,246. 

Molitor said that "it was against human nature" for the crowd not to want him to keep the streak going, even though the Brewers had taken a bit­tersweet victory. 
"In a lot of ways the personal streak seemed more important (for them) than the win itself. 
"It's impossible not to be a little split, but there is no way po~sibly you can be disap­pomted when the guy in front of you drives in the winning run," he said. 
Manning, who has only 86 at­bats this season, said, "I played a long time and I've never seen anything like that. There were sort of mixed emo­tions in the stands. People were booing and some were happy. 
Molitor's streak is fifth longest in baseball history be­hind Ty Cobb, George Sisler, Pete Rose and Joe DiMaggio. 
Irish. While optimistic about major tournaments--the

Irish 
the talent on his team, he Hoosier Classic, the Mid­recognizes that there is plenty America Classic and the Eas­
continued from page 16 
of talent on the other side of the tern Kentucky Invitational--as perienced and tested team to net. well as five dual matches. The face the challenging 1987 "We are a very improved tournaments will be a tough 
schedule. Six new faces also ap­team, but we have a vastly im­test for Notre Dame, but Lam­
pear on the Notre Dame bench. proved schedule," said Lam­bert notes that the Irish are no Sophomore Julie Finnorn and bert. "It's not a given that we'll longer looking to just perform freshmen Rachel Hall, Chris have a better record just be­well and gain experience 
Rosso, Maria Rhomberg, Col­cause most everyone is back against national powers as they leen Wagner and Amy White all from last year. Notre Dame is did in past years. have shown promise in prac­now a known quantity in vol­tice this fall. leyball. We can't sneak up on "We are physically capable "The freshmen have made teams anymore, and people to win these tournaments, and 
good progress so far but they will be preparing for us more should be in contention to do probably will not be a major than they have in the past." so," Lambert said. "We have the chance to meet some big
factor until mid-season," noted The first team shooting at 
teams and beat them, which

Lambert on his third recruiting Notre Dame will be the Salukis class. of Southern Illinois. Sunday's will look very good at tourna­
"We don't have a franchise match will be the first meeting ment selection time." player," he added. "We depend between the two schools, which on the whole team. That finished the 1986 season in a tie Despite the impressive num­
worked for us last year and we for lOth place in the NCAA Mid­bers, Notre Dame. failed to need it this year also. We have west Regional poll. qualify for NCAA post-season to establish a good balance and "Southern Illinois has a lot of play last fall. With the experi­chemistry. We'll see if that quality atheletes," said Lam­ence returning to Lambert's develops after the first couple bert. "Volleyball is not neces­squad and the impressive list 
matches, and hopefully we'll sarily a game of size, but a of foes on the 1987 schedule, pick up where we left off last game of quickness, and they similiar numbers will not only 
season." are extremely quick." give the Irish their first two consecutive winning seasons in 
Lambert is beginning his 
fourth campaign at Notre After Sunday's match, the the program's history, but per­Dame, and holds a record of Irish hit the road for most of haps their first NCAA Tourna­59-41 while at the helm for the September, playing in three ment appearance as well. 
FRESHMAN SHOPPING TRIP 
Opportunity To Buy Those Things You Now Find You Need 
Saturday, August 29, 1987 1:00 P.M. 
BUSES LEAVE FROM STEPAN CENTER 
Tickets Available at The Freshman Year Of Studies Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 
.. r

I /; ......... 
f 

l ..-..c.-'!' 
----~--------~ 
\  
\  
\•  ..  
.~,-)~.  "'  

Tbe ObaerverA"lle Photo 

Zanette Bennett will be one of the key players as the Notre Dame volleyball team faces its toughest schedule this season. 
-,Q><Q><Q>..q,.q.~,.~~-
Knollwood Country Club 
is looking for part-time waiters and waitresses for the formal and informal dining rooms. 
Can virtually guarantee $6.00 Au. no experience is necessary, will train. 
Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment 
or apply in person between 3 and 5 p.m. Tues-fri. 
Knollwood is located at 16633 Baywood Ln. 
(just off Grape Road) 
~~Q>~<Q>~~ 
Student Union Board 

USED BOOK EXCHANGE 
When -drop off Friday, Aug. 28 4pm-8pm -book sale Saturday, Aug. 29 1Oa~-4pm 




NO CHARGE 
Where: West Point Room-1st floor LaFortune 
*books must have names and prices to be accepted* (10% of selling price kept J:ly SUB) 
Call Jim (239-7757) {or details 

The Observer Friday, August 28, 1987
page 12 


AP ........ 

Bo Jackson and the Kansas City Royals have Thursday and replaced by former Royal John a new manager, as Billy Gardner was fired Wathan. Related story appears at right. 
League postpones draft 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NFL's Cris Carter-Charles Gladman sup­plemental draft was postponed for a week Thursday after Commissioner Pete Rozelle and a group of college athletic directors agreed to give the NCAA a chance to reinstate the college eligibility of the two players. 
The NFL said in a statement that Rozelle cited as the reason for the postponement of Friday's draft the reinstate­ment Wednesday of another Pitt player, defensive back Teryl Austin, who like Carter had accepted payments from 
agents Norby Walters and 
Lloyd Bloom. 
The reinstatement is contin­gent on Austin repaying $2,500 in loans he received from the agents and severing any agree­ment with them. The same stiuplation would apply to Carter. 
Gladman, however, has never acknowledged any dealings with agents. He was ruled ineligible for refusing to cooperate with an investigation into Walters and Bloom. 
Friday's supplemental draft, however, will still take place for four other players uni­nvolved with agents. 
Carter, meanwhile, was holding a news conference in Indianapolis unaware of the postponement. 
He said he that playing for Ohio State would be his first choice. 
"I'd love to go back but it's just not as easy as that," he said. 
Asked if he might seek reinstatement from the NCAA, carter's lawyer, Bob Berry, said "Ohio State would have to appeal and they have no inten­tion of doing that. Without Ohio State appealing the decision we are dead in the water.'' 


Carter wants to be a Buckeye 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS All-American wide receiver Cris Carter said Thursday he would rather play football for Ohio State during the upcoming season than with an NFL team. 
"I would love to go back. But it's just not as easy as that," Carter told a news conference held before the NFL announced it was postponing Friday's Carter-Charles Gladman sup­plemental draft for a week. 
Carter was unavailable for comment after the announce­ment. 
The news conference was called after Carter held a workout Thursday. The St. Louis Cardinals were the only NFL team to have a represen­tative attend the workout and Carter said then he didn't know what to expect in the supple­mental draft. 

Carter was declared in­eligible for his senior year after taking money from agents Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom. The NFL scheduled the supplemental draft at the peti­tion of Carter that he be given the chance to be picked by an NFL team. At least 12 teams had announced they would not participate in the draft. 
The NFL said in a statement that the draft would be delayed to give the NCAA a chance to reinstate Carter and Gladman, who has never acknowledged any dealings with agents. The announcement of the delay fol­lowed a meeting between NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle and a group of athletic direc­tors, including Ohio State Ath­letic Director Rick Bay. 
"I felt it was going to be a small turnout," Carter said of the 45-minute workout that was conducted at an indoor tennis center in Kokomo, located about 60 miles north of In­dianapolis. 


Gardner axed; Wathan hired 
Associated Press batting average in 10 years 
with the Royals before becom­
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Billy ing a coach with Kansas City Gardner, who was named to last year. He was named the replace the ailing Dick Howser manager of the Omaha Royals during spring training, was last September. fired as manager of the falter­
"This is what I've alwaysing Kansas City Royals wanted. I've been with theThursday. 
Royals 17 years ... I've learnedHe was replaced by John a lat these last six months," he Wathan, manager of the 
said.
Royals' Triple-A farm team at Omaha and a former Kansas "One thing we need to do is City catcher. get back to the old style of run-
The Royals, who led the ning a little bit more, hit and American League West early running a little bit more, this summer, had fallen to 62-64 making things happen," Wat­and fourth place Thursday -3.5 han said at a news conference games behind Minnesota. Thursday afternoon at Royals 
Gardner, 60, a former Min-Stadium. nesota Twins manager, was General Manager John hired last year as a third-base Schuerholz announced Wat­coach after Howser was hospi-han's appointment and said in talized with brain cancer. How-answer to a question from a ser tried to return as the Royals reporter that he had talked to manager in spring training but Hal McRae, the Royals' long­quit after a few days because time designated hitter and now of weakness. Howser died in the team's batting instructor, June. · about the Royals' managerial 
Wathan. :w. compiled a .262 position. 
-SffiC TBERTBE announces:------­



CHILD•• 

mritten and directed b!J IDLIE JEDSEO 
September I and 2 7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m O"Laughlin Ruditorium 
on-stage and off-stage openings I 
-COPIES RVRILRBLE Ill liD IDDBERO-­


Friday, August 28, 1987 
The Observer 
page 13 






THIRD ANNUAL BEACH PARTY 
60 TONS OF SAND! 
Music provided by .... the MUSIC KING 
Stepan Courts 9pm-midnight 
(in case of rain; Stepan Center) 


WEAR YOUR SHORTS AND BRING YOUR SHADES 

Sponsored by Student Union Board 
-------~­ 
page 14  The Observer  Friday, August 28, 1987  
Foley  and studying them, I've been reading the playbook at every chance and really working  that jarred a pass loose from his hands. But, to Heck's credit, Foley  on the field is an indication that the year off has helped him make a hit in perhaps the most  long run ... it helped. Keeping the grades up during football season is going to be difficult  
continued from page 16  hard," Foley said. "Watching the films has been helping me.  felt it, too. "I finally made that hit I've  important room.  place--the  class­ because I have a lot of reading to do, but I should be able to  
That's what I've been doing."  I'm improving a lot."  waited for," Foley laughed. "I  Foley and fellow Proposition  handle it. At least I hope so."  
Another thing Foley has been  Just ask Andy Heck.  knocked the ball loose, but I  48 football victim Tony Rice  
doing to help his progress is  didn't know where I was for  were both cleared to play after  
studying videotapes in his dorm room during his free time.  The 6-6, 248-pound first-team tight end was the recipient of -Foley's first big hit, a crushing  about two plays after that. So I figure it must have been a pretty good hit."  earning satisfactory freshman grades. "It was really tough sitting  HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS  
"I've been taking films home  blow in Wednesday's practice  And the mere fact Foley is  out," Foley said. "But in the  



The amazing Casio FX-4000P pro-alpha-numeric display scrolls to 79 grammable scientific calculator. In characters and its instant formula power. it's compa-.--c:-AS-=-10-,------Fx-.4 -p--------. replay feature lets 
-000 rable to the most Functoons tso you review, edit and highly touted CaiCU-Dosplay t2Scrollsto79 replay your formula 
IatorS On the mar ket Formula Replay up to 79 chr at the tOUCh Of a today. Computer Math Hex-Bon Octal button. It even has 
Regress1on Analys~s 2 Vanable 

It offers you '-------------___j an answer key that 160 total functions. including 83 scien-stores your last computed value. tific functions, such as hexadecimal/ And to make th1ngs still easier, decimal/binary/octal conversions. the FX-4000P has a "perfect entry" standard deviation and regression system, which allows you to enter and analysis. display a formula exactly as written. 
Making it easier to deal with Plus, it has a non-volatile 550 long computations. its 12 character step program memory with 10 program divisions. This allows 10 different pro­grams to be stored at once. 
And it includes up to 94 data memories, which are invaluable for statistical analysis. 
Finding all this power at your fingertips 1s remarkable enough, let alone at half the price of some com­petitors. If you can put your finger on a scientific calculator that g1ves you more power at any price. by all means buy 1t 


CASID. 
Where miracles never cease 
, Inc. Consumer Products D1v1S10n: 570 Mt Pleasant Avenue. 


Friday, August 28, 1987 The Observer page 15 

Hey You! 
~B experienced? 
NO? Hey, no problem. 
Stop by our offices anyway. 
The Observer. 

Campus 
Friday 
7:30 p.m.-9:45p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Fall Film Series "Lalvakor" 1986, color, 123 minutes, directed by Oliver Stone, USA, Annenberg Auditorium. $2. 
Saturday 
10:10 a.m. Faculty Assemble for the academic procession in the foyer of the Ad­ministration Building. 
10:30 a.m. Mass formal opening of the academic year 1987-88. Sacred Heart Church. Celebrant: Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.; homilist: Prof. Timothy O'Meara. 
2:00 p.m.-3:30p.m. President's Reception for new faculty and their spouses. Snite 
Museum of Art. 
3:30p.m. Volleyball NDW vs. Southern Illinois. ACC 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Beer Batter Perch Grilled Reuben Chinese Vegetable Stir Fry Chicken Enchilladas 
Comics 
ffffiiNWHit~ II T THE P/.1/JH. 
MOf'Cr<N OfHC€5 Of THE' rt&lflt.Y COMPETITIVE 
CON51/7~R 'I~t{J()fr1 f'ICIWUNE .. 
mE 
Mflr<KeT, 
8055. 

[VIP[J LY TH[ UNIV[RSJTY 
, . 

[Rt<ED IN HAKINfrJOANI£ 
F/NKfLJ1£/ST[R AN{) MARG£ BLJJTARSKI RfJOMNATES. 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Cod Fillet Deep Dish Pizza Cheese Omelette Deli Bar 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Large ring 5 Volcanic rock 9 Cry 
13 Island near Corsica 14 Bay of Naples isle 
15 Baseball name 
16 Pub drinks 

17 Century plants ~+-4--+--+-­
18 Frolic 

19 Speaks frankly 1--+-+--+-­
22 Baker's need 23 New Guinea 
port 24 Tray 27 Called a cab 32 Snoops 33 Foolish 34 Chop 35 Maturing 
agent 36 City near 
Phoenix 37 Indigo 38 Floor covering 39 Eats 40 Corpulent 41 Stay Informed 43 Peaks 44 Literary 
Initials 45 Unit of sound 46 Entirely 54 Nanny 55 Small bird 56 Danube Ieeder 57 Eng. 
composer 58 Habituate: var. 
59  Not final  In  
law  
60  Peruse  
61  Peignoir  

62 lt. family 
DOWN 
1 Soothe 
2 Sp. pot 
3 Comply with 
4 Ignore 
5 Claw 
6 Once -a time 7 Stew 8 Angling gear 
Berke Breathed 

~..--......___..__.__ 
\ 1987 Tr~bune Media Services, Inc. 08/28/87All Rights Reserved 
9 Balanchlne's 
field 10 Soviet range 11 Exhausted 12 Disciple 14 Serve food 20 Singer Burl 21 Chair or street 24 Kindle 25 Discuss 26 Feudal lord 27 Ladles 28 Beer 
Ingredient 29 Drury and 
others 30 Live 31 Removes In 
printing 33 Gauzelike 
material 36 Falls 37 Make -lor 
(hurry to) ening agent 52 US cartoon­39 Uninteresting 47 Erudition Ist 40 Fr. department 48 Turner or 53 Neighbor of 42 Babbled Cantrell Huron 



08128187 49 Mex. boy 50 VIctuals 51 Egyptian goddess 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Some historians theorize that the Sphinx's nose was actually severed by Egyptian mobsters and, In an act of defiance, "delivered" to an unpopular pharaoh. 


Maureen Shea and the Notre Dame volleyball 
team open the 1987 campaign Sunday afternoon 
against Southern Illinois. Brian O'Gara 
Belles take trip to Europe, win three of five contests 
By ANNE GALLAGHER J. Harte, a devoted fan. He pro­said. "We played against club Sports writer vided the financial backing and teams that are in semi-pro or sponsors for the trip by arrang­professional leages of that The Saint Mary's basketball ing an exhibition game against area." · team had an opportunity to ex­Mundenlein College in Chicago The Belles traveled by bus perience basketball on the in­last March. through the breathtaking ternational level this past countrysides of Germany, summer--and made the most of The Belles played a total of Switzerland, and Austria. it. five games during the Cities visited included Munich, 
On June 5 the Belles left evenings. Each girl played a Garmish, Lucerne, Innsbruck, Chicago for Munich, Germany, minumum of 10 minutes per Salzburg and Vienna. the first stop on their tour of game and the team won three "The trip was both a cultural three European countries and of its five contests. According and social education,'' said six cities. to the players, adjusting to the sophomore Amy Baranko. 
"It was a dream come true international rules wasn't too The squad made full use of for many of us," said Head difficult and added excitement its two-week stay by rising Coach Marvin Wood. to the game. every day at 8 a.m. for guided 
The dream was made possi­"The games were more tours of each city and had free ble by the undying determina­physical and were faster up time in the afternoons for indi­tion and generosity of William and down the court," Wood vidual sightseeing or shopping. 
Sophomore is 'reckless' 
Foley's comeback a success 
By MARTY STRASEN "John Foley is a very impres­Fazio said. "He's downright in­
Assistant Sports Editor sive football player," Fazio tense. He's a wild, reckless 
said. "This is really his first guy, and we don't want to lose 
John Foley -sidelined during taste of football in two years, that. 
his freshman year under NCAA and he's pretty secure on the "Technically and fundamen­
Proposition 48 -has returned to second team. With tally, John has a lot of progress
the Irish defense. Stonebreaker out right now, to make. But we're bringing
And he's brought some things John should be playing quite a him along slowly, becuse we 
with him--a year of adjustment don't want him to lose that in­
to college academics, an in­
tense desire to hit people and 
tense desire to contribute at in­to make things happen." 
side linebacker and, as ex­Foley's high school numbers 
pected, a lot of rustiness. seem to indicate that with a 
"Coming out this year, I'm little work on his fundamen­rusty," Foley said. "There's no tals, he could make some two ways about it. I kept in things happen on the college awesome shape (during the level as he did as a prep. year off) , but putting equip­He was chosen USA Today ment on is totally different defensive player of the year in from doing drills--but I'm get­1985 and was one of five ting used to it. linebackers in the nation on the 
"I'm getting better every Parade prep all-America team 
day. As long as I can improve Foge Fazio while at Chicago's St. Rita High every time out, I'm on the right School. track." bit for us. He'll have to. Foley said he realizes his in­
Irish head coach Lou Holtz "He's really rusty. But he tensity sometimes hampersand inside linebacker coach makes up for that in other sharpening his fundamentals, Foge Fazio have recognized areas. He's a tremendous ath­and he has come up with a for­
the progress. Foley, after only lete." mula he hopes will help his about two weeks in pads, has Standing 6-3, weighing 228 progress.secured a spot on the second pounds and with the ability to "I've been keeping my inten­team defense. hit like a truck, Foley's mere sity inside while the play is 
On the first team at inside presence is enough to in­going on," Foley said. "But linebacker are junior Ned Bol­timidate many an opponent. once I get ready to hit . . . I car and senior Wes Pritchett. But the sophomore boasts an­bring it out. At the start, I was Sophomore Mike other attribute that keeps him using intensity in the thinkingStonebreaker--who looked to ready to play--intensity. part of it, and that doesn't 
vie for a starting spot after a For Fazio, that's something work. Your mind wanders. 
strong 1986 season--is awaiting that has to be dealt with "But if you can hold it in until 
a decision concerning his aca­cautiously. impact, you do a lot better. 
demic eligibility and may have "John is more than enthusi­
see FOLEY, page 14

to sit out the entire season. astic about playing football," 
I I ! 
~ 
•I I 
I f 
~ 
~-­

Sports
page 16 Friday, August 28, 1987 
Irish open season vs. Southern Ill. 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Coming off a record­breaking 1986 season, the Notre Dame volleyball team begins its attack on the team's toug­hest schedule ever on Sunday with a 3:30p.m. match against Southern Illinois in the Auxil­iary Gym of the ACC. 
Last fall the Irish ran up a string of 17 consecutive wins en route to a 33-7 record, and were named the most improved team in the Midwest by the Midwest Volleyball Magazine. All this for a team which started two freshmen, three sophomores and a junior for most of the season. 
That success makes the task at hand seem all the more im­posing. Notre Dame will face four teams which finished in the Top 20 last season (Texas, Nebraska, Illinois and Western Michigan) along with such other national powers as Texas A & M, Purdue, Southern Cal and Kentucky. 
Attempting to rise to this challenge will be a still-young but more experienced squad, anchored by returning starters Mary Kay Waller, Maureen Shea, Zanette Bennett (juniors), Taryn Collins and Kathy Cunningham (sophomores). Senior Kathy Baker will fill the sixth starting spot. 
Waller, a 6-0 junior from Lawrence, Kan., finished the 1986 season sixth in the nation in kill percentage (.395) and nth in blocks per game (1.54). She was also named an honorable mention for the Notre Dame's 1986-87 female Athlete of the Year Award. 
Cunningham, a native of Naperville, Ill., and Bennett, from San Antonio, both gained valuable experience at the U.S. Olympic Festival this summer in Durham, N.C. Cunnin­gham's consistent play kept the team in many games last fall, as did her team-leading 292 digs. Bennett paced the Irish in 1986 with 3.27 kills per game and sparked many rallies with her powerful spikes. 
Shea, a middle blocker from Erlanger, Ky., proved to be Notre Dame's most depend­able performer in 1986, leading the team in games played (129) and finishing second in kills and blocks. Collins, an Oak Park, Ill., native who took over the setter position last fall, returns to that all-important position in 1987. 
Baker, a senior from Foun­tain Valley, Calif., has shown great improvement in recent weeks and will be among the starting six on Sunday after­noon. 
"Kathy Baker has done very well in our practices so far," said Head Coach Art Lambert. "She prepared herself very well all summer and that is paying off now." 
Other returning monogram winners include seniors Gretchen Kraus, Jill Suglich, Kathleen Morin and junior Whitney Shewman. 
This cast of 10 returning players gives Lambert an ex-
see IRISH, page 11 
The Oboerver/Joann Whltfteld 

Inside linebacker John Foley is rusty after sitting out a year under NCAA Proposition 48, but alreay has made an impact in the Irish defense. Marty Strasen features Foley's return to foot­ball at left. 






