-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
WVFI returns-page 5 
------------------------~---­
VOL. XXI, NO. 112 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1987 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 
Evangelist's lawyer says Swaggart behind takeover plot 
Associated Press of attempting to take over his Bakker, who stepped down beginning last summer, "seek­woman for Swaggart's 500,000-member TV ministry. last week as head of the PTL ing some sort of sanctions" headquarters in Baton Rouge, 
FORT MILL, S.C. -The ministry, accused a rival of against Bakker. La., said today she was not au­lawyer for TV evangelist Jim Attorney Norman Roy Grut­seeking to gain control of PTL thorized to comment on the Bakker said today that rival man said at a news conference by exposing an extramarital "In the course of time that matter and said Swaggart was preacher Jimmy Swaggart was in New York: "Last night Jim encounter Bakker had seven I've been dealing with this mat­in California. behind an attempt to take over Swaggart came out of his cave years ago and his payment of ter I have seen unmistakeable Bakker's $172 million PTL em­or the high grass or wherever blackmail to cover up the inci­evidence that beyond simply Jessica Hahn, a 27-year-old pire. he was hiding and identified dent. going to the Assembly of God, secretary on Long Island, east 
Swaggart has denied the al­himself to the Charlotte Obser­there was clearcut evidence of New York City, confirmed legation, but said in an inter­ver as the man that Roy Grut­Grutman said that Swaggart that Jimmy Swaggart was at­that she had a sexual encounter view published today that he man had in his mind .... Now had gone to leaders of the tempting to orchestrate the with Bakker in 1980 but denied was certain he was the man that Jimmy Swaggart identi­Assemblies of God, the ouster of Jim Bakker," Grut­that she blackmailed him, ac­that Bakker had in mind when fied himself, I will not deny Jim denomination which ordained man said. cording to a report published he accused a fellow evangelist Swaggart was that man." Bakker, on several occasions, Barbara Klein, a spokes-today in New York Newsday. 

Iran: Attack would imperil Americans 
the strait. The United States has vowed to preserve free 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -The navigation in the gulf, which speaker of Iran's Parliament has been a battleground since said Tuesday that Americans the Iran-Iraq war began in Sep­around the world would be in tember 1980. danger if the United States "The events of Lebanon launches an attack in the Per­could be repeated for the sian Gulf, where U.S. navy Americans around the world" forces have been strengthened. if the United States attacks, 
Hashemi Rafsanjani also Rafsanjani said. "If, God for­renewed Iran's offer to inter­bid, such a thing takes place, vene with pro-Iranian Shiite Americans will be unsafe Moslem kidnappers in Lebanon throughout the world." for the release of Americans if "Of course, we don't want Washington returns an esti­this to happen. We're not mated $5 billion in Iranian as­making threats," he said, "but sets frozen in 1979. we are warning the American 
He did not link the threat and people to tie the hands of their the offer, both of which were leaders." made in an interview with Teh­By "the events of Lebanon," ran radio that was monitored Rafsanjani appeared to be re­in Nicosia. ferring to the 1983 suicide bom­
The United States says Iran bings of the U.S. embassy and AP Pboto has deployed anti-ship missiles Marine headquarters in Beirut, A group of canoeists hesitate before some rocks during an outing on MUiers River near in the Strait of Hormuz, the 40-in which more than 300 people rapids as they negotiate their way around some Erving, Mass. 
Associated Press 
mile-wide southern gateway to were killed, and to the abduc­the Persian Gulf through which tions of Americans. 20 percent of the non­Eight Americans are among 
Priest: Revolt gives Church chance
communist world's oil passes. the 24 foreigners missing in This has revived fears that the Iranians will try to close see IRAN, page 3 
By CHRIS JULKA offered him the possibilities for servant of the Church has ever 


HPC learns about activities for the graduating seniors 
By REGIS COCCIA ment, so you can see the cost 
Assistant News Editor of that," he said. 
In other business, HPC Co­
Senior Class President Dave Chairman Sheila O'Connor 
Miklos spoke on the Senior said money for Buzz Bus ride 
Month, a series of activites for cards is needed and asked for 
graduating seniors, at Tuesday dorms with extensions for Hall 
night's Hall Presidents' Coun-Life funds to submit requests 
cil meeting. as soon as possible. 
HPC Co-Chairman J oanie 
"I'm asking you to support Cahill asked dorms to submit (the Senior Month) by taking checks for the Collegiate Jazz out ads in the (program booklet Festival. Cahill also asked can­of activities)," Miklos said. didates for HPC chairman or Miklos said advertisements in co-chairmen to submit a one­the booklet will cost 60 to 100 page description listing why dollars. "The reason it costs the candidate wants to run, the that is because of postage, candidate's qualifications and funds for senior activities and what the candidate would like events," he said. to do with the Hall Presidents' 
Council next year. 
"The seniors' event during The recently elected Student commencement weekend is the Body President and Vice Pres­Senior Cocktail Party on the ident, Pat Cooke and Laurie South Quad," Miklos said. Bink, were scheduled to speak "(Jazz trumpeter) Maynard Tuesday night to the HPC but Ferguson will be the entertain-were unable to attend. 
a prophetic ministry." achieved." 
Jerez said the activist arch­Jerez described Central 
Rector of the Catholic Uni­bishop formed "the peak of the America as a region which is versity of Nicaragua, Father Church's hierarchical use of its in particular need of a prop­Cesar Jerez said Tuesday night prophetic possibilities in hetic role on the part of the 
Assistant News Editor 
that the revolutionary move­Central America. Church. "There is a hurricane ments in Central America offer "The prophetic gestures-­of war sweeping through all "prophetic possibilities for the and mainly his brave defiance features of Central American Church in Central America." 
life. In the last ten years over "The Biblical God is the one 
150,000 people have died as vic­who heeds the people's cry," 
tims of this terrible conflict Overwhelmingly, theJerez said in the Center for Con­tinuing Education auditorium 

dead are Central American before an audience of students, 
people, although the weapons, faculty and South Bend resi­
the instruments of death, and dents. "When the stirrings of 
the training of the counter­people mistreated as unequal insurgent proxy troops are 
and dealt with as enemies by 
financed by U.S. money." other people let themselves be 
Jerez attributed the current felt, then the possibilities of guerilla warfare in El Salvador 
Biblical and Christian prop­and Nicaragua to the ambitions hecy are present." 
of "U.S. geopolitics" and the Jerez spoke in commemora­
"long process of struggle tion of San Salvador's Arch­
against the character of ex­

Father Cesar Jerez 
bishop Oscar Romero, a close ploitation, oppression and cul­friend of Jerez who was mur­of the unjust authorities and his tural manipulation that dered seven years ago while steady debunking of official Central American society has presiding at Mass in a hospital lies--were broadly known in El been founded upon." chapel. ". . . the critical turn­Salvador and through many Although Jerez professed to 
ing point in the history of El other parts of the world, be a pacifist at heart, he also Salvador at which Oscar making his prophetic words said there is "no avenue open Romero was summoned to prominent in a way that no serve the Church as Arbishop, other Central American high see JEREZ, page 4 
The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 2 
In Brief 
Irish debaters Rob Hennig and Mike Monberg captured third place in the twelfth annual National Junior Debate Tournament held last weekend in Overland Park, Kansas. Hennig and Monberg advanced to the elimination rounds of competition after eight rounds of preliminary debate. In the elimmation rounds, they defeated Odessa College and the University of Nebraska before bowing out to the University of Texas in the semi-finals. Paul Bielski arid John Failor also competed for Notre Dame, missing the elimination rounds by only a single ballot. -The Ob­server 
Alexander Haig ended speculation by declaring his candidacy for the 1988 Republican pr~sidential ~omin~­tion at a news conference Tuesday. Ha1g emphastzed h1s experience as a former secretary of state, NATO com­manding general and White House chief of staff, but he conceded he is a longshot in the race. Following his an­nouncement, Haig flew to New Hampshire to campaign in the state that will hold the first presidential primary next year. -The Associated Press 
Of Interest 
''La Fiesta de Mexico,'' another mini-lunch, will be presented by University Food Services on Thursday. Featured food will be hard and soft tacos, chicken enchiladas, seafood empanads, and taco salad. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame Saint Mary's Charity Ball will hold an organizational meeting tomght from 8:00­
9:00 in the LaFortune Little Theater. Attendance is re­quired for all committee members. For more information, call Danny Harrison at 283-3476. -The Observer 
"Aquinas: A Knowledge Of Selr' will be presented by Anthony Kenny, from Balliol College in Ox­ford, England, tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Library Lounge. -The Observer 
The Lenten Reflection Series continues tonight at 7:00 in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. Cate O'Hare, Assistant Rector of Lyons Hall, will share per­sonal reflections on the University community's lenten theme, "God does not see as we see -for we look at ap­pearances, but the Lord looks into the heart." (1 Sam. 
16:7) -The Observer 
"Nicaragua and The Current Situation" will be presented by Steve Francis tonight at 7 in Room 110 of the Law School. A documentary on aid to the contras will supplement the lecture. -The Observer 
Tonight's guests on the new WVFI's Campus Perspectives are this year's Student Body President Mike Switek, and this year's Student Body Vice-President, Don Montenaro. Campus Perspectives airs every Wednesday night from 9-10 on WVFI-64 AM. Tonight's hosts are Chris Shark and Colleen Doyle. -The Observer 
Weather 
Hit the showers. Time to cool off after a week of fun in the sun. Students face a 60 percent chance of rain today and a high in the low to mid 50s. Tonight features a 40 percent chance of rain and low in the mid 30s. Thursday offers a cloudy day with a high around 45. ­


Associated Press 
--Ihe-Ob-se~~or
-·-··------&.~Y~'-' ·­
Design Editor . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. Kathy Huston Typesetter ................ Becky Gunderman ........................................... Michael Buc News Editor.................... .. Karen Webb Copy Editor ......................... Joe Markey ............................................ Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor ............. Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Bob White 
Viewpoint Layout.......... Kathleen Moran Accent Copy Editor ........ Mike Naughton Accent Layout... ........... Melinda Murphy Typist .. .. .. .......... .. ...... Esther Ivory NO Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Ad Design .............. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ..................... Todd Tucker 
The Obsener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Obsener is a member of The Assodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Loss of aid causes student to rethink bias against women 
Everywhere, on TV, in magazines, or in the classroom, there is the endless impassioned litany from an admittedly small, yet vocal fac­tion of women (and interestingly a greater num­ber of men, statistics indicate) about how bad women have it. 
Read Ellen Goodman and see what I mean. "Women are so oppressed in this paternalistic society," "Men are responsible for all the evils in the world like fascism,, capitalism and the Catholic Church," etc., etc., etc. One hears this proclaimed so vehemently that one starts to get the impression that whitt~ females have had things as bad as black males. 
When it comes down to dollars and cents at least, however, things are not so simple. I learned this during break when my sisters and I got our FAF estimates giving our expected total family contributions for school. 
Consider this: My sisters and I filled out F AF forms that were virtually copied from each other with the exception olf names and gender. Each of us are Notre Dame Scholars, so each of us are fully entitled to seholarships as solely a function of our financial need. 
Nevertheless, when I opened my FAF state­ment, I read that I or my family is expected to pay $2,259-$2,759 for next year. When one of my sisters opened her statement, however, she found that she or the family was expected to pay half this amount. 
Not only this, but with r·egard to federal aid my statement said: "Based on your answers to FAF questions 19, 20, 21, and 22, you are con­sidered to be a dependent student for the pur­poses of this estimate." 
Contrast this with my sister's statement: "Based on the information you gave, you ap­pear to be eligible for a PE!ll Grant." 
Now I don't want to overreact. A few thousand dollars may seem a lot to me now, but I am sure when I am 50 years old I will barely notice the difference and will probably just laugh at the fact that I could have taken such a frivolous worldly thing so seriously Jttow (Ha!). 
At the moment, howeve.r, this bewildering discrepancy does not seem very funny. As a matter of principle I am sympathetic with any group that is an underdog. But can one really count women among the minorities like blacks and Hispanics as groups that are disadvan­taged? 
Some sociology books wm tell you that the entire female gender undergoes devious socialization pressures in, for example, the family and in school, supposedly leading to fear of success and low self-esteem. Yet in my high school at least, the overwhelming majority of the top graduates were women, even though three of the four SAT National Finalists were men. 
Furthermore, although some women say they felt left out with regard to certain student ac-

Chris Julka 
Assistant News Editor 

tivities, such as sports, I question whether everything is such a one-way street as the media would have us believe. During my high­school education, for example, my English teacher once harped at me for not getting in­volved in some "program for gifted students." After I finally agreed to participate, however, he learned with some embarrassment that in this case "gifted students" could only be female. 
Still, we have Phil Donahue, Gloria Steinem and all of the Virginia Slims advertisements telling us how incredibly short-changed an en­tire 50 percent of the human species is. But isn't this all a bit melodramatic? Who are the people who write all of these books, host all of these shows, produce all of these commercials and give all of these lectures but members of the Establishment itself? 
Someone is probably playing amateur psy­chologist and saying that I am only showing my insecurities by saying this. Maybe so. 
But tell me how secure you would feel if you were gipped out of several grand, and then on top of this told that the people who got your 
several grand are being discriminated against. 
FOR SALE BY 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
AUTOS 

79 Pontiac Bonneville AMf'M Cassette, Sspcl. Loaded. $6700 
81 Buick Park Ave. Loaded. $5000 
83 Ford Escort, AMf'M Cassette, 4spd. Clean. $3000 
84 Reliant K Wagon 

TRUCKS 
85 Chevy Astro Cargo Van, Sta.ndard Options $8000 
85 Ford Pickup, 5th Wheel 4spd, Dual Tanks, Trailer Hitch & Brakes. $7670 
MOTORCYCLE 
84 Harley Davidson, Purple, 65 Elcona 
(2 Bedroom) 
$3000 
Can been seen 
only by appointment 

Good condition. $4900 Great Shape. $3000 
84 Ford Escort, AM Radio, Nice. $3650 
86 Nissan Pulsar, AMf'M Cassette, Sspd. $7670 


Now on display at the Main Office on 19033 Douglas Road. Or Call Robert Outly for more information at 239-5646. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 3 

Tuesday, March 10 
4:30 p.m. -A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his coat, containing his wallet, from the laundry room in the basement of LaFortune. The vic­tim estimated his loss at $500. 
Wednesday, March 11 
12: 10 p.m. -Security responded to a minor traffic accident that occurred in the B1 parking lot when two vehicles, driving perpendicular to one another, collided. Only one vehicle sus­tained damage which was estimated at less than $200. 
3:00 p.m. -Security took a report on another minor traffic accident that in­volved a University truck backing into a pl'rked car. Damage is estimated at 
$200.• 
4:04 p.m. -McGann's Ambulance was summoned by Security to transport an employee from the Administration Building to Memorial Hospital when he suffered leg cramps as a result of an Injury incurred while he was working, 
Thursday, March 12 
1:30 p.m. -A Stanford Hall resident re­ported a hit and run accident that oc­curred while his vehicle was parked in the D2 Lot. Damage was estimated at $1,000.00 
3:30 p.m. -A male subject was ap­prehended by a Notre Dame Bookstore employee as he attempted to leave the Building without paying for three BIC lighters. The items recovered totalled $3.00. 
Second embassy guard arrested by Marines 
Associated Press The former guard, whom the 
Marine Corps refused to iden­
WASHINGTON -The Marine tify, was transferred from the Corps has arrested a second Marine base at Twenty-nine former Moscow embassy Palms, Calif., to Quantico, Va., guard on suspicion of Tuesday night and will be held espionage as a result of a con­in confinement pending an ap­tinuing investigation of Sgt. pearance before a military Clayton Lonetree, the service magistrate. disclosed late Tuesday. Lt. Col. John Shotwell, a Marine spokesman, identified the man as a 21-year-old cor­poral "whose tour of duty over­lapped Sgt. Lonetree's at the 
U.S. embassy in Moscow." 
Shotwell said the Marine Corps would not release the man's name before Wednesday at the earliest. 
Security Beat 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions at Theodore's until Friday, April 3rd: 

* General Manager 
* 
Programming Director 

* 
Promotions Director 

* 
Reservations Manager 

* 
Catering Manager 




Applications are available at the Office of Student Activities 301 LaFortune Student Center 
3:47p.m. -In another shoplifting inci­dent at the bookstore, a subject was apprehended for attempting to leave the building without paying for a mu­sical tape titled "Innocence is No Ex­cuse," valued at $7.53. 
Monday, March 16 
2:50p.m. -A South Bend resident found a wallet belonging to a Notre Dame employee and turned the property over to Security after notifying the owner. The St. Joseph County Police advised Security that there was a bench warrant on the owner of the wal­let. Therefore, when the subject retrieved his property at Security, he was placed under arrest and taken to the St. Joseph's County Jail. 
3:30p.m. -A resident of O'Har&Grace townhouses reported the theft of her bicycle from outside the Memorial Li­brary. She stated her loss to be $130.: 
Friday, March 20 
11:10 a.m. -Security took a report on a minor traffic accident from an em­ployee of the South Dining Hall. The victim struck a boulder when he failed to turn quick enough in negotiating a curve. Damage was estimated at $800. 
Saturday, March 21 
2:00p.m. -While on routine patrol, a Security Officer found two vehicles parked in Green Field with all the win­dows of both cars smashed out com­pletely. It appeared that some sort of concrete block was used to break the windows. Security is in the process of contacting the owners of their respec­tive vehicles. Damage was estimated 
at $700. 
6:00p.m. -An off campus resident re­ported the theft of a brown paper bag containing a coat, a jacket, two sweat­shirts, a cassette tape and folder from the lobby in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Vic­tim estimates her loss at $95.00. 
Monday, March 23 
2:11 a.m. -A Lyons Hall resident re­ported that some time while she was away for spring break the window of her second floor room was broke. There are no suspects at this time, 
4:30 p.m. -Three female students re­ported the theft of some keys, a watch and a pair of sunglasses taken outside a raquetball court Inside the ACC. The victims estimate their total loss at $100. 
7:00p.m. -A Howard Hall resident re­ported his vehicle was broken into while parked in the D1 lot. Entry was made by smashing out a rear window, Removed was an in-dash stereo sys­tem and equalizer. Victim estimates his loss and damage at approximately$350.00. 
Tuesday, March 24 
1:20 a.m. -A Walsh Hall resident re­ported receiving a harassing phonecall. 
2:15a.m. -Security responded to a call from a student who reported that someone was trying to break out a door window at the East Gate Guard House. Upon the arrival of the officers, the glass on the south door was found bro­ken out but there was no one in sight. It is unknown at this time if the per­petrator(&) entered the building or was merely committing an act of van­dalism. 

Soviets deploying new missiles, says Pentagon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Soviet Union continues to deploy new models of nuclear missiles with an eye toward achieving mili­tary superiority while conduct­ing laser experiments against 
U.S. airplanes, the Pentagon said Tuesday. 
Russia is also devoting al­most three times as much of its gross national product to weap­ons purchases compared to the United States. And it shows no signs of slowing that build-up, "no matter who is general sec­retary; no matter what proposals are made, no matter what public relations activities are undertaken," said Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. 
. The Soviet weapons drive also extends to its conventional arsenal, with dozens of new MiG-29 Fulcrum jet fighters along with tanks, artillery pieces and ships having been produced over the past year. 
This grim assessment of Moscow's military might was released by Weinberger in the form of the Pentagon's annual publication, "Soviet Military Power." Now in its sixth edi-
Iran 
continued/rom page 1 
Lebanon and presumed held by Moslem kidnappers. Most are believed to be captives of ex­tremist Shiite groups backed by Iran. 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Sunday the United States is ready to protect oil tankers against Iranian attack and is making contingency plans for military action. 
British, French and Soviet warships also patrol the Per­sian Gulf area. 
Iran has attacked neutral tion, the magazine-size, glossy booklet has become the Reagan administration's primary vehi­cle for releasing information about Russian force develop­ments and, in turn, buttressing calls for higher Pentagon spending. 
"We must realize that we are competing with a dynamic, and an expanding, Soviet military threat," Weinberger said. 
Overall, the booklet con­cludes that Soviet military ex­penditures are consuming be­tween 15 percent and 17 percent of Russia's gross national prod­uct. By comparison, Pentagon spending consumes about 6 percent of America's GNP. 
The report was released hours before Weinberger went to Capitol Hill to push for the administration's request for a 3 percent increase after infla­tion in the defense budget for the next fiscal year. 
Weinberger referred to the booklet on several occasions, telling the House Armed Ser­vices Committee that it outlined the "very real threat, the growing threat" presented by the Soviet military machine. 
ships in the gulf in retaliation for Iraqi attacks on its tankers, oil fields and petroleum export terminals. 
Lloyds of London's Intelli­gence Unit reported that Iraqi warplanes attacked the Iranian tanker Dena in the nor­thern gulf Monday, setting the 176,000-ton vessel afire. 
Rafsanjani said the United States warned Iran through the 
Swiss  Embassy  in  Tehran  
against  using  the  mobile  
Chinese-made  HY-2  missiles  

deployed on the northern shore of the strait. He said the mes­sage also concerned "affairs in Lebanon and hostages in Lebanon." 


The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1987 -page 4 
Kidnappers still threaten hostage 
Associated Press the spy, Normandin, was not videotape of Normandin on postponed and was not can­Monday night in which the cap­
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Moslem celed," said the one-page hand­tive said the group had kidnappers announced Tues­written Arabic statement. suspended plans to kill him. day they are still considering "It (the execution) is still the "execution" •)f French taken into consideration at any Normandin, 35, a lighting en­hostage Jean-Louis Norman­time until we are certain about gineer with France's Antenne-2 din, a day after the captive said the intentions and promises television, was kidnapped his abductors had suspended a which, if fulfilled, will lead to March 8, 1986. After a series of decision to kill him very positive and speedy threats to kill him, the Revolu­
The threat came from the results that will solve this tionary Jm.tice said they 
'· Revolutionary Justice Organi­issue," the statement said. suspended a decision to kill him zation in a statement delivered Revolutionary Justice, after appeals from ranking to the independent newspaper believed made up of Shiite Mos­Shiite Moslem r~ligious leader An-Nahar at 9:30 p.m. lem zealots loyal to Iran's Sheik Mohammed Hussein "The organization an-Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Fadlallah and Greek Catholic nounces that the execution of released a four-minute Bishop Hilarion Capudji. 

SUMMERSCHOOL 
IN CLEVELAND 
AT JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY 
SESSION I SESSION II June 15-July 17 July 20-August 20 
Hundreds of courses each summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 

• 
Education • Religious Studies 

• 
English • Social Sciences 

• 
Humanities ... and others 


To get our Schedule of Summer Classes, mall coupon or call (216) 397·4257 
John Carroll University 
Director of Summer Sessions• University Heights, Ohio 44llfl 
I  I  
I  I  
1  Name  I  
I  I  
I  I  
~~~  I  
I  I  
:  City________Stalt'  Zip  :  
I  I  


..._., 
...,. 
......,.~
eQ; 
It's for you 
AP Photo Money traders shout at each other during the morning trade on the Tokyo foriegn exchange market. The U.S. dollar plunged to the postwar record low Tuesday. 
Magic Kingdom to come to Franc~e 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Mickey Mouse and the Magic Kingdom are coming to Europe, under a contract Premier Jacques Chirac signed Tuesday for a $2 billion Disney theme park outside Paris. 
The world's fourth Disney park is to open in 1992 on a 4,400­acre site in rural Marne-la­Vallee, 20 miles east of Paris. 
French officials say it will create 30,000 new jobs and should draw about 10 million visitors a year. 
"We think France is the ideal country to welcome Eurodis­neyland," Michael Eisner, president of the Walt Disney Co., said at the signing cere­mony. 
Speaking in French, he told reporters, "It is difficult to im-
STUDY AT OXFORD 
OXFORD UNIVERSITY, ENGLAND, CORPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE 
3 OR 6 WEEKS. JULY 5-AUGUST 15. COURSES IN AN­TIQUES, ART HISTORY, BUSINESS, DRAMA, HISTORY, AND LITER­ATURE. CREDIT OR AUDIT, GRADUATE OR UNDERGRADUATE. COURSE-RELATED EXCURSIONS TO LON­DON, STRATFORD­UPON-AVON, BATH, COVENTRY, STONE­HENGE, AND MORE, INCLUDING THEATRE. $1,750 OR $3,200, EXCLUDING AIR TRAVEL. 
E.J.P. WOLFF UNIVERSITY OF DETROIT 
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48221 (313) 927·1082 OR (313) 652-3405 
agine a country richer in artis­tic traditions. It is as respectful beneficiaries of this cultural richness that we come to France." 
Chirac told a news confer­ence the venture marked the first time France signed a con­tract with a private foreign company for a project on French soil, "but I'm sure it will be a great success because it's Disney Co. and France." The French negotiators, sensi­tive to inroads on their culture, won what they consider impor­tant concessions from the Walt Disney company aimed at guaranteeing a French and European flavor to the theme park. 
Negotiations took nearly two years. Jean-Rene Bernard, negotiator for the French gov-
Jerez 
continuedfrom page I 
for the dignity and welfare of the majority of the population (of Central America) olther than armed revolution." 
In addition Jerez argued Mar­xism is no less compatible with Catholicism than with the nationalism of the Nicaraguan patriot Sandino. Many Sandi­nistas do not regard religion as the "opiate of the people" as Marx did, but as a "sea of 
liberation," Jerez said. 
The Nicaraguan Jesuit said that although the current Cath­olic University in Managua is not totally subservient to the 
ernment, said he estimates Eurodisneyland will contribute $500 million a year to Franee's gross domestic product. 
Eurodisneyland is to include 13,500 hotel rooms, camping grounds, sports facilities ailld a large commercial complex spread through five villages. Total cost could go as high as $7.5 billion, with the first phase to be completed in 1992 and other themes to be completed in 1995, officials said. 
Like the world's three otlher Disneyland theme parks, the centerpiece of Eurodisneyland will be the Magic Kingdom dominated by a huge Cin­derella castle and populated by familiar Disney characters. 
But Eurodisneyland will dif­fer from the parks in Anaheim, Calif.; Orlando, Fla., and Tokyo. 
Vatican, it is still "Christian in­spired." Under Somoza there was not even a Catholic Uni­versity of Nicaragua, Jerez said, because of Somoza's desire to prevent foreign intru­sions from the Vatican. This concern continues in fact to be legitimate, Jerez said. 
The Nicaraguan Jesuit con­cluded he was hopeful about the prophetic possibilities of 
The Observer 
The independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Resume and personal statement are due by Friday, 
March 27 at 5 p.m. Questions should be directed to 
Marilyn Benchik at 284-5365 or 239-5313. 

1 AppIications available at the Cellar_ 

J{ow 1fi'R._I1{GTO'R.. 87-88 
• MANAGER 
• EMPLOYEES 
£oo~n8 for peop(e wlio (ove musicl 
LHours: 11:30 -5:00 Basement of Lafor-tune J 
Central America. 
"The present disclosure of all the misleading policies of the Reagan Administration re­garding their avowed prin­ciples, the illegal funding of the Nicaraguan counter­revolutionaries with the monies of terrorists and drug dealers . . . are being read by us as motives for hope." 

"ieVV~_O_i_D_t______________wedn-esda~y,Ma-rch2~5,198~7-pa~ges 
Welcome back, WVFI 
This week marks the rebirth of the long lost Voice of the Fighting Irish. 
From its new LaFortune studio and with a much stronger signal, WVFI-AM 64 once again offers a much-needed alternative to the programming of South Bend radio stations. 
For a long time, the efforts of the WVFI staff were not fully appreciated, as the station could not be heard by many students. Fortunately, this has changed. WVFI has moved from its old offices in O'Shaughnessy Hall and has purchased new equipment. 
Much of WVFI's progress was made possible by the University, which made a financial commitment to the radio station. This support must be continued. Improvements still must be made at WVFI, as not all students can hear the station clearly in their dorms. 
But WVFI should be proud of the improvements it has made so far. The station plans to combine its progressive music with hourly updates of campus events. With new equipment and a fresh outlook, WVFI should once again be an avenue for cultural expression on a campus often cited for a lack of diversity. 
Welcome back, WVFI. Best of luck, and may you never leave the airwaves again. 
-The Observer 

P.O.BoxQ 
Tuesday's cartoon found close-minded 
Dear Editor: 

In response to the sexist propaganda 
found in the "Beer Nuts" comic strip 
on Tuesday, March 24, I offer this con­
tinuation of the vignette: 
" ... and in Mark Williams' apparently 
distraught and disgruntled beer-nut­
boy-abroad the European 'girls' noted 
nothing wonderful or sexy or open­
minded or liberal. In fact, they would 
have overlooked him completely had 
he not choked on, and subsequently 
thrown up, a hairball right there in the 
airport lobby." 

Valerie Camarigg Off-Campus 
Charity Ball ushered in by Special Events Week 
Dear Editor: 

In 1984, two concerned Notre Dame students decided that they wanted to do something to help to end world hunger. The result of their vision, dedication and hard-work was the first Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Charity Ball. This year marks the third annual Charity Ball, with each succes­sive one raising more money for Cath­olic Relief Services, and the working toward elimination of the hungry of this world. 
This year the Charity Ball Committee has decided to enlarge the scope of the event by instituting a Special Events Week prior to the Ball itself. The pur­pose of this week would be to provide revenue through additional fundraisers. For these reasons a spe­cial Charity Night at Theodore's has been arranged, and the Student Activ­ities Board has graciously agreed to donate the profits from its usual Friday night movie. 
More importantly, though, the com­mittee decided that it would be benefi­cial to the Charity Ball and to Catholic Relief Services if events aimed at raising awareness of the world hunger problem were also planned. This year the committee acquired two very spe­cial movies highlighting the issue of hunger and also has been fortunate to have a lecture given by one of Notre Dame's own professors, Denis Goulet, on his experiences in the Third World. These two events were planned in hopes that the Notre Dame community would become intimately involved with the hungry of our world. 
The Special Events Week will be a special time for all students and faculty at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to unite together to work to end the suf­fering of other human beings. But it will also be a time to give a little and enjoy a lot. We hope you attend as many of the planned activities as you can. 
Michelle LaRose Special Events Coordinator 
Dancin' Irish members deserved second chance 
Dear Editor: 
Why was the action of the university's ad hoc committee, which discussed the future of the Dancin' Irish, interpreted as a negative step? Our squad is quite excited that positive action has been taken by the administration to modify and better our organization. One such modification allows for an advisor within the Athletic Department. The advisor is simply going to act as a con­stant communication link between us and the Athletic Department. We have viewed and do view the addition of said advisor as a necessary step to further our credibility within the Department of Athletics. 
As captains, we will also be selecting a second person, a coach, who will ob­jectively evaluate our administrative decisions and dance performances. 
Confirming Fr. Rocca's quoted state­ments, our group was not able to reach our potential effectiveness on the foot­ball field due to the inaudibility of the band music coming from the opposite corner. 
It is a shame that it required a nega­tive decision on the part of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics in order to prompt the administration's recogni­
tion  of  our organization's justifiable  
existence.  
Sue Novak  
Patty Perez  
Robin Bolinger  
Cailin Stubbs  

Former and Current Dancin' Irish Co­Captains 


Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"Live within your income, even if you have to borrow money to do so." 
Josh Billings 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-In-Chief ........................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ................................ Brian P. Murray Managing Editor .................................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Michael Whitton 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 News Editor ........................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ........................ Melinda Chapleau News Editor ...................................................... Jim Riley Production Manager ............................. Mellssa Warnke 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ........................................ Chris Murphy Projects Manager ............................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .................................... Michael Naughton Controller ............................................... Tracy Schlndale as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ............................... Marilyn Benchlk Graphic Arts Manager ............................. Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .................................................. Jim Carroll Development Manager ....................... Michael Shannon spece Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 
~--------­
Accent 
Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 6 

A Fair Shake 
Durgens Aims to Unify ND 
KATHY SCARBECK features writer 

A 
glance across the dining hall or a walk down the quad makes one realize just how small six percent really is. Comprising this narrow percentage of the population, Notre Dame's minority students face special problems associ· ated with life on a predominantly white campus. Kenneth Durgens, director of Minority Affairs at P'lotre Dame, has been trying to help foster a "sense of belonging" in these students. 
"The racial climate is turning colder on campus," says Our­gens, quoting the headline from a recent article in The Chicago Tribune. "I think it's probably safe to say that's also happening here, a more subtle type, probably an isolation. What I do to combat that is basically try to build self­esteem and develop programs they can rally around and help them understand who they are." 
With these interests in mind, Durgens has adopted the plan of building the self-esteem of minority students in order to help them adjust to Notre Dame. An increase in self­esteem helps students to bet­tter understand themselves. "Understanding who they are means they are going to be a stronger organization, and being a stronger organization means they are going to be more secure," Durgens said. 
Durgens has plenty of experi­
ence in helping minority stu­
dents adjust to college life. 
Prior to starting work at Notre 
Dame in October 1986, Our­
gens earned masters degrees 
in counselling and college stu­
dent personel and held the 
positions of residential direc­
tor, admissions counselor, and 
coordinator of minority affairs 
at various Institutions. 
4 
Durgens describes his job as having an "ali-purpose" role in dealing with the Black. Hispanic, and Native American students at Notre Dame. Our­gens serves as advisor to the Black Cultural Arts Council and the Black Cultural Arts Festival, and also works with student leaders in developing and Im­plementing their programs. He is a liaison between students and the administration and staff. 
Durgens fills the position vacated by the former director, Ed Blackwell. "I think my style is a little bit different," said Durgens In reference to his predecessor. "''m probably more of a hands-on type of person, whlh means I will at­tend organizational meetings and events. I'll do that little extra." 
Senior Esther Ivory, chairper­son of the Black Cultural Arts Festival, approves of Durgens' manner of handling his role. "He's very approachable, which I think the students like. He's not a straight-collar type of person," she said. "He is a lot different than Blackwell but in a positive way. Two people can't be the same. They each have a different perspective on what the office is. Mr. Durgens is more personable, and he feels the need to be with stu­dents." 
Junior Lisa Boykin, who has also worked closely with Our­gens, cites his "down-to-earth" character as being a positive attribute in carrying out his duties. "He asks everyone to call him Ken, and you can just go talk to him as a friend and not an administrator," Boykin said. "If more administrators here were as approachable as Ken, every aspect of life here would improve. He genuinely has our interests at heart." 
Self-understanding is also fundamental to being able to cope with the problem of rae­ism. "A lot of today's students aren't even exactly sure what racism is when it smacks them. When they finally figure oUJt what it Is, they are really mad and don't know how to cope with it," he said. "If you dE!al with who you are, then you deal from a position of strength, and you will not be reactive. You will be pro­active." 

Commitment on the part of the whole university Is neces­sary to help attract more minority students to Notre Dame. "I think the university is committed, but sometimes the word 'commitment' doesn't get carried out. Mr. Rooney, (director of undergraduate ad­missions), is doing a great. job, but I think other areas of the university could be involved. I'm not sure commitment Is being given over a long pE::riod of time, and I don't just mean saying you are going to give it." 
Once minority students are admitted, particular attention needs to be given to retaining these students. Durgens com­pares minorities to any other special interest group on campus; they receive added attention and things are pro­vided for them. "We're not as­king for special concessions. We are trying to seek things every student here is seeking, and that is a feeling of belong­ing." Durgens said. 
In order to help increase this sense of belonging. Durgens suggests that more people at­tend events sponsored by minority groups. They can serve as learning tools and provide more information about various minority com­munities and their cultures. "If one segment of Notre Dame isn't happy, then we can't ali be happy," Boykin said. "''m thankful that we have Ken, be­cause things are going to con­tinue to Improve and change." 
Jennifer O'Donald



Erin Go Bragh! 
A day of green away from the golden dome 
SEAN HICKEY features writer 

T 
he parties and holiday festivities of the Feast of St. Patrick rarely occur anymore under the Dome. Due to the alcohol policy and the arbitrary dating of Spring Break. St. Patrick's Day on Notre Dame turf has quieted down In recent years. Neverthe­less, age-old traditions of corned beef and cabbage, green grog and Irish dance and song thrive in other parts of the country. 
As a newcomer to the N.D. scene, I heard about St. Patrick's Day under the Dome and anticipated Mar. 17. Dlsappoinment struck when I learned that Spring Break was scheduled during the week of St. Patty's. 
However, my father saved the day with an invititation to join him for lunch and some pub crawling on Mar. 17. 
Our rendezvous point was at The Maple, which was a favorite gathering place for Hartford, Conn. area Irishmen. There the atmosphere was crowded, boisterous and redolent of seasoned corned beef and cabbage. Lawyers, politicians, judges, neighbor­hood characters. and other assorted types mingled and soon found themselves caught up in the festivity of the day. Everyone's an Irishman on St. Patrick's Day. 
Not surprisingly, conversation was full of the same wit and sharp, bantering humor found in Irish pubs from Dublin to Galway. Where else could one hear such characterizations of Catholic schools as: "Holy Cross--a school founded on a bluff(Pakachoag Hill) and getting by on one ever since," or "Manhattan--the only college In America named after a cocktail." 
The St. Patrick's Pipe Band fllled the pub with tunes of Irish folksongs and ballads. The band spent the week prior to the Holiday parading and performing concerts in bars and convales­cent homes. When one piper was asked the whereabouts of another, we learned that the pace had been too much for him-­"We buried him last night." But pipers are a notoriously sturdy lot and most of them survive the annual ordeal. 
An outstanding citizen nicknamed "The Leprachaun" sputtered remarks that typified the old, parochial New England Irish philosophy: "When my children were to pick a partner, I said to be sure they are Irish, Catholic, Democrat, a Red Sox fan, and an 
N.D. fan." 
Several old-timers reminisced about the good old days when a former political leader in Hartford ran an after-hours establish­ment, or speakeasy, In defiance of the then 12 a.m. closing laws on Saturday nights--"The place was as dark as a graveyard on the outside, but once Inside--it was lit up like Times Square on New Year's Eve, "said one Irishman. Another recalled giving "political speeches for $5 a night for Tammany Hall in the Bronx In 1933 during the depression when (he) would have accepted a contract on someone's throat for $1.50." 
Moving into another pub, I was introduced to the former State's Attorney, who was noted for his satirical essays on the past misfortunes and future lack of prospects of the Ill-fated Boston Red Sox. particularly one entitled "In the End They'll Break Your Heart." Who can forget his apt description of the Bosox Manager in 1978--"Who else but Don Zimmer could have snatched defeat from the jaws of victory?" 
As the afternoon drew to a close, we withdrew from a day bathed In Irish culture and returned to the sight of the Irish Tricolor flapping in the wind on the flagpole in our front yard. The Irish in America may be a vanishing group and quickly­blending Into the general population, but in Connecticut, at least for a week each year, they are still a group easily recognized. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 7 

Radford

Sports Briefs 
continuedfrom page 12 

A Bookstore Basketball XVI captains' meeting will be held tonight at 7 at the Library Auditorium. Schedules will be distributed and tournament announce­ments will be made at this time. For more information contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
A Bookstore Basketball Scorekeeper's meeting will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. -The Observer 
The ND men's volleyball clubwillfaceMichigan tonight at 7:30 at the ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will hold practice today at 4 p.m. at Stepan field. Any new members wel­come. For more information contact Kate at 283-2904. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will take place Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. A $5 fee is required for sign-up. For more information contact Barbara Tull (284-4078) or Mary Fisher (284-5065). -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staffwill have a meeting tonight at the new station at 6:30 for all current and new members. Shift assignments for the remainder of the year will be decided. -The Observer 
The ND sailing club will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse on St Joseph's Lake. All involved in this weeked's Ice Breaker Regatta must at­tend. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practice all this week at 4 p.m. at the Rockne Pool in preparation for possible upcoming tournaments. All members are encour­aged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 283-4502. -The Observer 
The LaFortune Billiards tournamentreminds participants that second-round matches should be com­pleted by this weekend. -The Observer 
Applications are now being accepted for the posi­tions of NVA aerobic instructor for 1987-88. Forms may be picked up at the NVA office in the ACC. Deadline is March 31. For more information call239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in Tne Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. They are not accepted over the telephone. -The Ob­server 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for a 
number of upcoming events on the NVA agenda. 
Included are the following: 
April 1 is the deadline for fencing, a novice tournament 
with both men's and women's divisions, all equipment 
provided, at least one rotation of PE fencing suggested. 
April3 is the deadline for kayaking, with classes, outings 
and a $19 fee which includes equipment. 
April 6 is the last day to register for the annual Irish 
Spring Runs, with three and six-mile events slated for 
Sunday, April 12. There is a $4 entry fee. 
In addition, NVA class offerings still open include 
Hydrorobics, Stretchercise, Karate and Scuba Diving. 
Registration and-t:>r further information on these activ­
ities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA 
at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 
goal outburst to put the game out of reach. 
"We controlled the game," observed O'Leary. "The out­come was never really in doubt." 
Unfortunately, victory was not so certain on the rest of the trip, as Irish scoring decreased while the opposition's in­creased. 
Against Washington and Lee, Notre Dame was outscored 7-2 in the third quarter, erasing a 6-2 Irish lead. That run proved to be decisive, as the Irish never regained the lead. 
The Villanova game, mean­while, was one that the Irish felt they should have won. The sloppy conditions of the field resulted in a low-scoring game, 
...
which is not the type of game Notre Dame wants to play. 
"I was disappointed with our play," said O'Leary. "We are a better team than we showed against Villanova, but we're also relatively young. It was something to learn from." 
The Irish will try to even their slate this weekend against Colgate, a school which O'Leary feels will give his team a real challenge. 
"We'll have to be more ag­gressive against Colgate, and we need to increase our scoring," O'Leary noted. "The key will be to try and gain some consistency, because the poten­tial is definitely there." 

The Ott..-Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obeen..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classified& from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classified& Is 3 p.m. All classified& must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Compact Disk Player lor sale. Audiophile Ellghten your horlzona with 1 major YOUTH IN ASIA YOUTH IN ASIA 
DRUIDS

quality NAKAMICHI OMS-7. Program· Duke's Bistro · Thursday night 
or aecond ma)or In theology. Dlacuaa 
mabie. Remote. Lists lor $1,295.00 but
.____N_O_TIC_E_S~j '~-F_O_R_R_EN_T~ 
the poaalbllhlea with E. Gorakl, C.S.C., 
There is a meeting lor all Druids andwill sell lor $600.00. Call evenings before room 340 O'Shaughneaay.
Druids-to-be to discuss the upcoming PRODUCTION STAFF MEETING II All10 pm al277·5912 or days al239·7133. 
ADOPTION· We're a happily marned FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO 
Spring Solstice Ceremony and other design editors and assistants, Viewpoint 
couple (physiclar>jlsychologlsl) who FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287·6389 THE GAP IS COMING THE GAP IS
important matters. Refreshments are, as and Accent layout please attend. Mon·COMING THE GAP IS COMINGdeeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd 
always, provided by the Archdruid. Call day, 30 March 1987, 7:30pm, LaFortune be sensitive to a child's needs and can 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT him tor more information. II you have any The meeting will last until about 8 pm.
provide a warm loving home where a 6' TILED BAR, 4 STOOLS, EZ CHAIR Stardate:March 24,1987 Library 12th
SCHOOL YEAR 255·3684>288·0955 questions, commune with Stonehenge Signs will be posted on the office doors 
child will flourish. E•penses pa1d. Legal. Tom 234· 7325 Floor One shoe searching lor lis lost sole· 
and you will lind the answers. giving the exact location. As always,
Conl1den11a1. Call Elhe and Alan collect mate Heeling reunion wanted al !he II· 
two 4 bedroom hses tor renl87 ·88; $450· refreshments will be served. BE THERE
(212) 724·7942. brary losl·and·lound
Stonehenge lives . . . 
500. 234·9364 II 
Round trip ticket to D.C. tor Easter $100. YOUTH IN ASIAWordprocea&lng·Typlng HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY
II Interested call lash al 277 5626 with
272·8827 LONELY SAILOR NEEDS SOME MAIL. 
ROBIN "ROBUST" MALONELooae ChangeCURRENTLY ON WORLD CRUISE.

WANTED Ooooh, you lookln' pwimell
VERY PHYSICAL, VERY SLAPSTICK, Duke's Bistro
WILL CORRESPOND IMMEDIATELY: Love,
VERY DIRTYIII SEE THE GAP Thurs., 9:30 p.m. • 2 a.m.
Typing STEVE BARRAZA, VAW·112, F.P.O. Sao, Moo, and Fudd's Jugs Free P1ckup and Delivery 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! Now hiring in SAN FRANCISCO 96601·6400 
277-7406 79 FORD GRANADA,dark blue,AC,am· 
your area, both skilled and unskilled. For lm radio,runs great must sell $900,call
list ol jobs and application, Call LARGEST selection ol CliltMonarch BRIE,HEIDI,TAMI,and LYNN
272·9340

(615) 383·2627 Ext J316. Noles in Michianal Bu)I'Sell.. textbooks Thanks lor a great 10 days. Want to do $$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard RALPH MASTRANGELO: We hearby ij again nex1 week? Just kidding
ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TICKET St. just off ol N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 serve notice !hal Youth in Asia is playing Mlke,Huck, and Tom. By the way·..
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE CALL CHICAGO-SYRACUSE 
MRS. COKER, 233·7009. Riders Needed lo MADISON. Leaving 3· Thursday at Duke's. You have no excuse. CHUCK! Got yall
APRIL 16 (6:30p.m.)·APRIL
26 or 3·27; returning on 3·29 call Mike Love, Ria
20(3:00p.m.)Wordproceaalng 
al1612. Anyone interested In being
$118 or BEST OFFER 277-8131 
ASSISTANT CONTROLLER(312) 973-7235(eve) 
Ride Wanted lo Penn Stale For This contac1 Jail al 3242 ASAP. Poaltlono To my favorite "NUr:
(312) 750·5126(day) 

Weekend • 31.!7 · Call John 2076 HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIMMY! Hope you available lor publicity, depoalla, and Thank you lor the "real" mask, lor the have a great day II promise to stay awake dlaburaementa controla. lake walk(and !he INCREDIBLE dip), lor
Typ1n~ord Procesa1ng 277·5014 HELPIII I desperately need ride to tor this one. I love you,K making me smile, and most ol all lor
New Thompson Chain-Reference Bible,
Chicago lor a reunion with high school being by me.
lop-grain leather, NIV,slightly marked
friends. To leave Thurs. or Fri. Shere LAST CHANCEII JOE lrom Chicago Tried to give blood at I love It allll
$45. Call Bill at 239·5615

uaual. Please call Susan al 283·4021. lo see U.ot Florida-Della Upsilon Call C3089 lor From, the 39th one( alias "your" anllbelum
LOST/FOUND 
Thanks I Youth In Aala Kerry's £ tan)
Hey Dudel Want lo look cool? 
Duke's Bistro 

I'm selling my new PX 2000 Vuamels lor 
SUMMER JOBS Thursday ? -2 a.m. ODE TO THE MAN WITH A BEARD: It'a
LOST LOST LOST KEYS KEYS KEYS $70. They are worth $85. I got !hem lor
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS to late to start thinking now MAN WITH HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAM SULLIVANat Lyona B·Ball courts week or March 2 my birthday, and II I relurn them, I'll hurt A BEARD You never reamed how MAN
EPCOT CENTER key ring Wllh 3 keys . PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK Mom's feelings. (SooHoo) Call Tami at LOVE, MARIO OR DOREEN 
""'ENGINEER'S WEEK'"" WITH A BEARDMOUNTAINSplease call 283·2564 or 283·2568 or 
4276 soon. 283·2583 . THANX, Scott. 
CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 381-4224 ""'ENGINEER'S WEEK""' I'M JUST A POOR DUMB PUERTO­MART CIZEK, RICAN-COFFEE DRINKER IN LOVE. I STILL WANT TO MEET YOU. MAY I "'"ENGINEER'S WEEK""' I'M JUST A POOR DUMB PUERTO­BUY YOU DINNER SOMETIME SOON? 
loa! one 1920's gold and cultured pearl RICAN-COFFEE DRINKER IN LOVE.
Eam $2000·4000. Gain unbeatable busl· DEBBIEclip on earring on saturday on the side· B THERE OR B"2ness experience. Be the NO Sales & Mar· PERSONALS walk by the grotto. please call annette 
keling Director tor Campus Connection, HEY BIDDLECOM
284·4372. 
our nationally e•pandlng, Innovative ad· MARCH 30 · APRIL 3 I hope that you don't have a birthday MICKEY, I PROMISE I'LL NEVER vertising guide. Currenfly al 42 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, because I will get you Ill Solar you have DRINK 2 LONG ISLAND'S ATLOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF 
universllles·we'll provide complete train· CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE been very luckylll Tis a good idea to lear CHARLIE'S AGAIN. THANKS FORFOUND CALL 2905 
lng, materials, and support. Call Chris BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ""' ENGINEER'S WEEK""' the Long Islander. Oh wail, I'm not a teen BEING THERE WHEN I NEEDED YOU. Kelsey, Manager, at (805) 564·1260 lor VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY SIGNUPS · anymore. I can't be a practical joker WE'LL HAVE TO "PADRE" AGAIN complete Information. Ideal lor ambitious, 1ST SOURCE BANK THIS WEEK · EO STUDENT CENTER anymore. Oh crud. SOONILOVE,L 
1 still haven't round my army green personable freshman· junior. Start In Buy or leaae e car. 236-2200. Financ­COMPUTER MATCHUPS · FORMS IN BANANA REPUBLIC SHOULDER BAGI April. Ing available tor all US atatea. CUSHING Hey Birthday Man HIGH-TECH PARENTHOOD AND THE I last saw II In the Freshman studio on ............................................... PIE EATING CONTEST· (AREN'T YOU I have been watching you lrom alar, and DEMISE OF THE FAMILY Is the topic of the fourth floor ollhe Architecture Build· Need ride to I.U. Friday afternoon. Call THANK YOU ST. JUDE. HUNGRY?)· NEXT WED 3:15 SIGN UP you have a cute girlfriend. Since you are a speech by Donald DeMarco. Prot. or lng. II you have any Into aboullhls delln· 2718. IN EG STUDENT CENTER no longer a teen, you must be too old Philosophy, U. ol St. Jerome. Sponsored 
quenl beg, g1ve Mike a call at 2098. PINEWOOD DERBY · (REMEMBER lor her. I want her. The secret watcher by ND·SMC Righi To Llle Thanks .... Need riders to Purdue this wknd. Call " Spring Break Travel to New York? " THE BOY SCOUT DAYS?) · NEXT 7:30pm Thurs. In the Little Theatre, Steve at 1 087 " Buy Now & Save " THURS 7:30 PICK UP KITS IN EO STU· LaFortune 
LOST: Thura., March 12 at Duke's, a all· " $90 RT Tlx to Newark " DENT CENTER OR CALL JOHN' £3698 ATTENTION ALL SAFE PEOPLE: 1:OOpm Saturday in the Game Room, var bracelet composed ol a chain of little RIDERS NEEDED to anywhere belw " Leave 3112, Return 31.!1 " OR CHRIS £1704 MMM, AKA MARIO, WAS CLOCKED AT SMC Haggar College Center masks. II was my only christmas preaenl BUFFALO and ALBANY this weekend " Call X3586 NOW " 83 MPH !hal I liked, so please return to Megan will leave THU at 6:00 p.m. and return WHO LOVES BRIAN O'FALLON? TSK TSK YOU SILLY GOOSE 
x1242 SUNDAY CALL 1221 TONIGHT belw He's dying ol curiosity. YOUR PAL, Hawaiian Dance! Hawaiian Dancel 
8:00 and 10:00 p.m. RUSTY Fri. March 27th Found· ahoes In NO GoH Course lot last Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at 7:30·10:00 pm Fnday. Call 239·6767. 2687. at Logan Center
THOU HAST BEEN BORN Ill 

James Meehan Winkler has EMERGED CONGRATULAIONS TO THE KITSKES LOST· Sun.,31.!2,on campus In or near FOR SALE Clauy Quolel lrom the depths ol the womb 111111 Sacred Heart Church or In South Dining · "What I need Ia a really good bang Job TWENTY YEARS AGO TODAY... Bob H. Hall Cate.:18k. gold circular lapel pin. In· (halrcul)," "She looka like a dog In we love our big lug, Bond ... JAMES Bond. To a great delivery boy! lrlnelo' Seolimeolal value. 2 one-way tix Chicago to NY 18 May mid-drool," "Give me that quarter The Sponge Club and all devotees Drain ... THE Drain. Thanks REWARD.232·8732. 1987 $75 ea call Steph ~77-8241 back," "Arghhhhhhhh," 

r -----TheObserver ---------Wednesday, March 25, 1987 -page 8 
Men's tennis team to face UIC here after successful West Coast swing 
LaSalle blows past UALR to finals 


by participating in the 1987 and Middle Tennessee State. preseason Big Apple National Rounding out the 16-team field Invitation Tournament. are Alcorn State, Arkansas-
N.D. -S.M.C. Pre-Law Society Speaker 
PIME MISSIONARIES ive t e GOSPEL among t e 
Series presents Walter "Jack" Pratt on: 
poor a~ ~hurched in the Third World. So that all may kn:>w of God's love. 
"Ratification of the Constitution: Why All the Fuss?" 
Young men 18-35, interested in FREE 
This year marks the bicentennial of the Constitutional 
BOOKLET about life as 
Convention of 1787 and the ratification of that il­
a missionary priest 
lustrioUis document. Professor Pratt of Notre Dame Law
in PIME, fill out this 
School will speak briefly on many of the disputed
ad and se~ it to: 
aspects of our Constitution. A question and discussion
PIME Vocation Dept. 
session is to follow the presentation. Don't miss this
3731 West 62~ St. Chicago, Ill. 60629 
great opportunity to learn more about the document 
(312) 767-()620 
which charted the course of American History!!! 
WED. MARCH 25 at 7:00 P.M. in Rrn. 104 orsHAG 
~----------------------~Age______ 
WED. MARCH 25 at 7:00P.M. in Rrn. 104 O'SHAG Cit State Zi 
Address 


By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team completed a success­ful seven-meet swing through California over spring break, going 6-1 and playing its best tennis of the year. 
The Irish are hoping to ride that wave of momentum to an­other victory this afternoon at Courtney Courts, this time against the University of Illinois-Chicago. 
Notre Dame head coach Tom Fallon felt that the results of the West Coast trip, mean­while, were indicative of good things ahead for his squad. Fal­lon's Irish had been beset by injuries over the early part of the season, but now appear to have gelled into a solid unit. 
"I really feel that this is as 
well as I can expect us to play 
at this point," said Fallon, in 
his 31st and final year as the 
Irish mentor. "The nice wea­
ther and constant play gave me 
a good chance to evaluate what 
we had this year and I liked 
what I saw. Both singles and 
doubles play was consistent 
and that's the kind of thing I'd 
like to see us maintain." 
NIT Roundup 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -La Salle used the 3-point shooting of Tim Legler and Rich Tarr in the first half and the inside play of freshman Lionel Simmons in the second to defeat Arkansas­Little Rock 92-73 in a semifinal game of the National Invitation Tournament. 
La Salle, 20-12, advanced to Thursday's championship game against Southern Missis­sippi, which defeated Ne­braska in the night's other semifinal. 
Legler finished with 26 points, Tarr had 23 and Sim­mons 21 for La Salle. James Dawn led UALR with 19 points and Paul Springer had 12. 
La Salle, with no player on 
Purdue joins NIT preseason field 
Associated Press Five schools that partici­Little Rock, Geo~rge Mason, pated in this year's NCAA Iowa State, Jacksonville, New 
NEW YORK -Purdue, a co­tournament are among those Mexico, Oral Roberts, Seton champion in Big Ten basket­playing in the NIT next fall. Hall, Texas, Virginia Tech and ball race this season, will get The five schools are UCLA, Weber State. its 1987-88 season started early Florida, Georgia Tech, Purdue 
The Irish opened their road swing with an 8-1 win on Satur­day, March 14 against LoyolaMarymount, and the following day they drubbed Cal State (Los Angeles), 6-0, with no doubles played because the meet was already decided after the singles matches. 
On Monday, Notre Dame swamped Pierce College 8-1, again sweeping all six singles spots. 
Wednesday afternoon's meet with Whittier College proved to be the most lopsided meet of the trip, with the Irish surren­dering only six total games as a team on their way to a 9-0 rout. On Thursday, the Irish tasted defeat for the only time during break, bowing 5-4 to the University of California at Riverside. In the hotly­contested battle, nine sets went to tiebreakers and five of the nine matches went the full three sets, with the Irish win­ning only two. 
The Irish rounded out the trip with a 7-2 win over Cal State (Bakersfield) and a 6-3 pasting of Claremont. 
Juniors Dan Walsh and Paul 
Daggs finished out the week a 
its roster as tall as the shortest starter on UALR's front line, refused to challenge the Trojans' superior height in the first half, but it hardly mat­tered. The Explorers hit eight of 12 3-point attempts in the first 16 1t2 minutes of the game for a 43-25 lead. 
So. Miss. 82, Nebraska 75 
NEW YORK-Randolph Keys and John White scored all of Southern Mississippi's points during a 15-2 second-half spurt that broke open a close game and gave the Golden Eagles an 82-75 victory over Nebraska perfect 7-0, and sophomore Brian Kalbas, who went 6-1 for the trip, feels that things are starting to click as the team's confidence increases. 
''We beat some quality teams in California, and we had plenty of chances to beat River­side and finish th'e trip unde­feated," said Kalbas, who has seen action at number two, three, and four singles this year. "We started out the year a little bit erratic, lbut now that a lot of people are playing some of their best tennis, we're really coming into our own." 
The Irish, now 13-8 on the year, host the University of Illinois-Chicago today at the Courtney Tennis Center at 3 
p.m.. As Fallon explains, the Irish already hav«~ an advan­tage going in. 
"Chicago has had a problem with a couple of its starters, and they won't be able to play against us," said Fallon. "That means we've alrealdy won two out of nine matches, and that's a tough hole for any visiting team to climb out of, especially the way we're playing. I can only hope we don't let down after playing well last week. 
and a spot in the championship game of the 50th National Invi­tational Tournament. 
Nebraska led 60-58 before J
White started the decisive spurt with a 3-point goal that gave Southern Mississippi the lead for good with 7:17 remain­ing. Keys followed with a rebound basket and free throw with 6:06 left and went on to score seven points in the run that gave the Gold1en Eagles a 73-62 lead with 2:58 remaining. 
Keys, a 6-foot-8 junior center, finished with 24 points. All of his 11 second-half points came in the final 6: 06 of play. White added 19 points. 
Derrick Vic paced Nebraska with 19 while Bernard Day and Anthony Bailous had 14 each. 
Af'j 
~p-=---==----------=-=--v 
1fte ~~s-1 
-') :Jm 

2.;=x:;g~ 87
-


Wednesday, March 25, 1987 -page 9 
The Observer 
Sophomore Julie Sullivan of the Notre Dame women's tennis helped the Irish to win two of five matches over break at Head, S.C.. Sheila Horox describes Sullivan's heroics and Irish performances in her story at right. 
We cater to weddings 
and rehearsal dinners. 
Within walking distance to the University of Notre Dame. 

1404 North Ivy Road For reservations call: South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-9682 
Milky Way and Westwood One Radio Network 
special guests 

orgia Satellites turday, March 28 8:00 Notre Dame A.C.C. All seats reserved $15.50 
Tickets available at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office Charge by phone VISJVMC call (219)239-7460 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
the win in the nightcap. Gleeson relieved Pasilla to get the save. 
St. Edwards 5, ND 3 
In San Antonio, the Irish had the bases loaded in the ninth inning, but they were unable to move anyone home. 
ND 10, SW Texas St. 5 
The Irish smacked 15 hits, led by Pesavento's four-for-five showing, to beat the Bobcats. Mike Harmon registered the victory. 
ND 8, Inc. Word 6 
Inc. Word 8, ND 7 
Notre Dame split this hard­fought doubleheader with In­carnate Word. The Irish had 14 hits in the first game to help Gleeson get the victory. Derk Madden was the loser in the second game. 
Baylor 9, ND 4 
In the bottom of the second inning Fitz walked the Bears' first three batters, and then gave up a grand slam to give Baylor a 4-0 lead. The Irish tried to rally back but could not complete their comeback. 
St. Mary's 7, ND 3 
St. Mary's handed the Irish a loss in the first of two meetings between the two 

·~~<Q'>~~~<Q>~<Q'>~tQ>.q. schools. Passilla struck out 
~ ND AVE APTS § n~e, but errors ~nd .mental 
~ § miStakes resulted m SIX runs 
§ Early Bird Speciai ~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and ~ receive a 10% discount ~ § Call 234-6647 ~ t Protected by Pinkerton Security ~ 
i~~<Q><Q>cq,.g,~!~.J..<.Q-><Q'>~·~tO"><.Q-><Q'><.Q->~ 
•---------------------• 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 
683·1959
CALL NOW 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2V2 MILES NORTH US31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE T E IN MICHIANA" 
:~~~;::~s Lutheran 
1 
Piotrowicz and a strong defense led the Irish to this win over Lutheran in Seguin, Texas. Notre Dame continued its strong hitting at the plate with six hits. 
ND 8, St. Mary's 1 
Notre Dame got revenge over St. Mary's with this vic­tory. The Irish dominated in all areas of play including two home runs by Peltier and Hut-
son. Chenail led the defense
with an excellent pitching per­formance and by turning a key double play to Pesavento and Hutson in the sixth inning. 
ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and mar­tyr great in virtue and rich in miracles near kingdom of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the death of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such power, to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent pe­tition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hail Marys and Glorias. For nine con­secutive days. Publications must be promised. St. Jude pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. This novena has never been known to fail. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 


/ 

/ ) 
/ 

The Observeli Jim Carroll 
Wins over Louisville, Rutgers yield Team of Week honors for Irish 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer  not make the trip because of illness. Instead of shifting the lineup,  stituted into the lineup. At first I doubted whether or not we should shift the lineup, but I  
The  Notre  Dame  women's  Gelfman opted to insert sopho­ was glad (Coach Gelfamn) put  
tennis team  won only two of  more Julie Sullivan into Loh­ me  at  number-three.  It felt  
five matches on its trip to Hil­ton Head, S.C. over spring  rer's number-three singles po­sition and freshman Jackie Uhll  great winning at that position." Uhll teamed up with Natalie  
break, but still came away with the honor of being named Team of the Week by Hebrew Na­tional Foods, Inc.  into Lohrer's number-two doubles position. "I know the situation put a lot of pressure on them, and I  Illig in doubles action to defeat Louisville's Kim Hull and Mic­helle Dyer, 6-4, 7-6 (7-2 tie­breaker).  
As sponsors of the tennis ac­ was  extremely pleased  with  "In the second set we were  
tion, the company recognized  how  they  played,"  said  down 1-4, but we  maintained  
Notre Dame for its participa­ Gelfman. "I felt that our lineup  our concentration on our play  
tion in the spring fest activities, determination, and team unity and spirit. Notre Dame was  was strongest with everyone playing at their regular posi­tions, so I decided to put Julie  and we were able to come back," said Uhll. "I felt some pressure playing at number­ 
among 30 or so teams playing in the area, and Irish head  and Jackie in Alice's regular positions."  two doubles, but it was more a feeling of privilege playing  
coach  Michele  Gelfman  was  Against Louisville, Sullivan,  with  Natalie.  She's  a  great  
told that for the first time in  who  found  out  15  minutes  doubles player.''  
Hebrew  National's  sponsor­ before  the  match  that  she  The Irish went on to defeat  
ship, the decision for Team of the Week was unanimous  would be playing at the number-three singles spot,  Rutgers 7-2, but then ran into three strong teams · from  
among the six-member panel. On the courts, the Irish cap­tured two big wins against  responded by soundly defeat­ing opponent Lisa Pepper, 6­3,6-0.  Arkansas, Tennessee, and Auburn. The Irish were unable to take any matches but  
Louisville and Rutgers but fell short against Arkansas, Ten­ "Playing at number-three was a great learning experi­ Gelfman was not disappointed at the losses.  
nessee and Auburn, putting the  ence for me," said Sullivan. "It  In striving to win, she said,  
Irish  overall  record  for  the  was an exercise in patience. I  her players always gave their  
season at 4-9.  just kept telling myself, 'hit the  very best. That was evident by  
The two Irish victories were  ball deep and cross-court.'  the  fact  that  not  too  many  
especially gratifying since the team played without the ser­vices of Alice Lohrer, who did  "I think I had an advantage against Louisville because they didn't know I was being sub- teams that finish a week of play at 2-3 win a Team of the Week honor.  



The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 10 

AP Photo point shooting teams in the col1egE1 game when the NCAA Final Four begins. Rkk Rietbrock discusses the three-pointer, and much more, in "Irish Items" on page 12. 
nation will get to see four of the better three-
Auburn head coach Sonny also had their share of 'mis­Smith was frequently referred namers' when football fever
Items 

to as Sonny Allen, and some an­apparently hit the
continuedfrom page 12 

nouncers threw out uninten­broadcasters and caused them 
Perhaps the biggest problem tional Spoonerisms when they to call Notre Dame's senior co­in televising the enormous changed the name of Wyoming captain Darrell Hoyal.number of tournament games star Fennis Dembo to Dennis That's Donald 1to you Bobbythat are played is keeping the Fembo. Packer and Richie Cunnigham, names of the players straight. The Notre Dame telecasts Donald. 
Rowing Club powers its way to big wins at Texas regatta 
By STEVE MEGARGEE from the Midwest and South­Sports Writer west. The heavyweight men's four, featuring Angie 
Highlighting a successful Herbruck, Mark Potter, Mark weekend at the University of Gwadz, Tim Noakes, and Todd Texas' Heart of Texas Regatta Waffner, took second in the for the Notre Dame Rowing regatta. Club last weekend, the men's "That heavyweight four was lightweight eight defeated a big win because competition several schools, including long­in the heavyweights is intense. time nemesis Kansas, to win To do that well is a big ac­the gold medal. complishment," said Ralph. 
"We beat Kansas for the first "They won their heat and came time in a long time. It sets us in second in the finals." up as one of the teams to beat In other men's action, the in this spring's Midwest lightweight four of Shadid, Regionals at Madison, Wiscon­Adams, Hammet, Mark sin," said men's captain John Drajem, and Tramontine, Ralph. "It was a big win be­placed third in the regatta. cause Kansas is a really good The women's varsity eight team that we hadn't beaten in boat also finished third, trail­so long. Itwas really exciting.'' ing only the University of 
Rowers on the lightweight Texas and the University of eight included Ralph, Greg Kansas. Shadid, John Gibbon, Mike Hammet, Stephan Foels, Eric Adams, Dimitrios Fessas, Ed Kromer, and Tony Tramon­tine. 
This was not the only success for the Irish in the regatta, which included about 20 schools 
I 

aac 

. The American Expressa Card can get you virtually everythmg from a leather jacket to a leather-bound classic. Whether you are bound for a bookstore or a beach in IBennuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about anything you'll want. 
How to get the Card before graduation. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. You can qualify even before you graduate with our special student offers. For details, look for applications on campus. Or just calli-800-THE-CARD, and ask for astudent application. The American Express Card. Don't Leave School Without If" 

MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane . provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we ·otTer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being built through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
~ 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• ~ 
Intercom entrances 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 


All Rights Reserved  
5 Farm asso­ 
ciation  
6 White House  
name  
7 Chin. island  
8 Clear  
9 On a-(in  
danger)  
10 Fr. police  
11 At all  
12 Bound  
13 White House  
dog  
21 State of bliss  
23 Abhor  
25 Donation  
26 Fleshy fruit 27 Moslem council  ~;;:;;;;;;:;;;:;;;;::;;:;;;;;;;:;;::;;:;;;;;;~~  
28 Colors  3/25/87  
29 Tool  38 Strobile  48 Impulse sender  
30 Gr. physician  40 Sharp  49 Film  
31 Bring out  41 Ponder  50 Watery fluids  
32 Avid  intently  51 Wife: Lat.  
34 Burned forest  43 Gat  52 Gambling town  
area  44 Potentate  53 Seth's son  
37 Transport  46 Fragrant shrub  56 Otto's domain:  
of a kind  47 Turn down  abbr.  

-----------------~--~-----~-~ 
Toda 

Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 11 
County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
IJ(NKtEY /{1/[J -nlfii41HB<e". 1HGY 
.•HOWeVCR, ~HOf/K/liNG

COIJI.PN'T. MiNe£, rr ?/115 VOT[I? w11s ~ef'O~re:o. 


1HifT,115 OFMIPN/6ffT, 1H€Y 
W(}(Jt./11/U. 96 NON-talrli€f(-. 
Wf!IKIN& V€r£r/IKIIIN5. 
12:00 p.m. Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture "The Role of the National Government in the Revival of Federalism," by Charles Cooper, assis­tant Attorney General, V.S. Department of Justice. Room 121 Law School 
12:10 p.m.-1 :00 p.m. Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous Holy Cross House 
1:15 p.m. Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages Workshop "Don Quixote," by Dr. Ruth EI Saffar, University of Chicago. Room 207 O'Shaughnessy Hall 2:00p.m. Baseball ND vs. Lewis Univer­sity 0-9 inn.) Jake Kline Field 
2:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Tax Assistance Pro­gram Social Concerns Center coffeehouse 3:00p.m. TennisNDM vs. Illinos, Chicago, Courtney Courts 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace-Mechanical Engi­neering Seminar "Application of the Plas­tic Source Method in Modelling Near-tip Plastic Deformation of 2-D Cracks," by Dr. Mitsunori Denda, Rutgers University. Room 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:15 p.m.-6:00 p.m. Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages Lecture "The Wo­man of the Boarder: Some Thoughts on Cervantes," by Dr. Ruth El Saffar. Li­brary Lounge 4:30p.m. Reilly Lecture in Chemistry Lec­ture £2 "How to Make Physical Maps of Entire Genomes," by Dr. Charles Cantor. Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 4:30p.m. ND Ethics and Foreign Policy Lecture, lecture £2 of 3lectures. "Do The Rules That Bind Conscience Bind the State?" by Prof. Alfred Rubin, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts Uni­versity. Room 100 CCE. 4:30p.m. Biological Sciences Social Sem­inar "The Relationship Between Hypopig­mentation and Night Blindness Studied with Electrophysiology and Monoclonal Antibodies," by Dr. Grant Balkema, Dept. of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School. Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
7:00 
p.m. SMC Spanish Club film "The Official Story," Carroll Auditorium 

7:00 
p.m. Theology Department Discus­sion, "Women in the Church," by Regina Coli, Center for Social Concerns. 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Program of Liberal Studies Film. Mozart's "Don Giovanni," directed by Joseph Losey, $2, Annen berg Auditorium 7:00,9:15,11:30 p.m. "Bonnie and Clyde," Engineering Auditorium 


7:30 
p.m. Philosophy Lecture ''Aquinas on Knowledge of Self," by Anthony Kenny, Balliol College, Oxford, England. Library lounge 

7:30 
p.m. Notre Dame Concert Band Spring Concert ACC. Free admission 

7:30 
p.m. Knights Of The Immaculata group film "The Eucharistic Miracle of Lanciano," 30 minutes, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 7:45p.m. Prayer for Peace at The Grotto. Sponsored by Pax Christi, Notre Dame 


8:00 p.m. Latin American Film Series, "Black Orpheus," sponsored by Kellogg Institue, SOLA, ODN, CSC. Center for So­cial Concerns, admission $1.50. 8:00p.m. SMC Homecoming Concert SMC Women's Choir, Little Theatre 
~ 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Meatloaf 
Turkey Divan 
Seafood Cantonese 

Sausage Florentine Grinder 
Saint Mary's 

Veal Parmesan Potato Pancakes with Apple Sauce French Bread Pizza Deli Bar 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Piece of sculpture: abbr. 

5 Knot 10 Ego 14 Mrs. Charles 15 Fiber plant 16 Eye part 17 Winglike 18 Battery 
terminal 19 Unaffected 20 Raciness 22 Himalayan 24 Upset 25 Indian range 26 Legging of 
a kind 29 Patron's 

charge 33 Incongruous 34 Brazen sound 35 Nabokov 
heroine 36 Await 37 Wading bird 38 Boost 39 Quantity: abbr. 40 Provoke 41 Part 42 Clothing tag 
word 44 Santa's 
reindeer 45 A Gardner 46 Stringed 
instrument 47 Annul 50 Easy job 54 Egress 55 Crustacean 

claw 57 Yoked beasts 58 Style 59 Wall cover 60 Taboo 61 Lulu 62 Be stimulated 63 God of love 
DOWN 1 Easy job 2 Fragrant 

balsam 3 lr. islands 4 Zeroed in on 

<1987 Tribune Media Serv1ces. Inc. 
Bonnie and Clyde  American Graffiti  
-Wed., Thurs.  -Friday, Saturday  
-7, 9:15, 11:30  -7, 9: 15, 11 :30  
-$1.00  -$1.50  

-~ --------­
r 
S~orts 

Junior midftelder John McNicholas (33) was Notre Dame win its season opener, but wasn't one of five different Notre Dame players to enough to push the Irish to wins ir11 the next two notch at least five points in Irish lacrosse action games. Chris Dallavo details the adion at right. over break. That potent offensive attack helped 
Irish baseball team takes 6 of 10; readies for home opener vs. Lewis 
The Observer! Bob Jones 
By KARA KOONS Sports Writer 

SAN ANTONIO -A solid per­formance in all areas led the Notre Dame baseball team to win an impressive six out of 10 games over spring break in Texas. 
With this momentum behind them, the Irish now will open their home schedule by facing Lewis this afternoon at 2 on Jake Kline field. The game has been designated Poster Day, and every fan in attendence will receive a free Irish baseball poster, complete with the spring schedule. 
In Texas, the pitching contin­ued to be consistently strong, as hurlers Mike Passilla, John Gleeson, Brian Piotrowicz, Kevin Chenail, Robert Fitz and Mike Harmon all registered victories. Piotrowicz and Chenail combined to allow only 10 hits over the final two games of the 10-game series. 
But the Irish also came alive at the plate. In the team's six wins, 36 runs were scored be­hind the powerful hitting of shortstop Pat Pesavento, out­fielder Dan Peltier and first baseman Tim Hutson. 
"The team gained a lot of confidence when it came to hit­ting," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "We also found that we were coming back to win games and that we had con­sistent pitching." 
Notre Dame improved to a 6-7 record on the season during 

Senior pitcher John Gleeson was one of six different Irish hur­lers to pick up a victory in his team's 10-game Texas road trip over spring break. Kara Koons gives the details in her story
above. 

it's spring break swing through Texas. 
"Whenever you go on a so­called southern swing, playing against teams that have already played 20 or 30 games you are at a disadvanntage," said Gallo. "I was pleased with winning six out of 10 games. The guys did very well." 
ND 3, Schreiner 1 ND 4, Schreiner 1 The Irish swept this doubleheader in Kerrville, Texas, to begin their winning series. Robert Filtz hurled the Irish to the victory in the first game, while Passilla overcame three Irish errors to register 
see IRISH, page 9 
5 NDptayers suspended from practice 
Observer Staff Rt~port 

Spring workouts have offi­cially begun for the Notre Dame football team, but five members of the squad will not be taking part because of dis­ciplinary reasons, the South Bend Tribune reported Tues­day. 
Suspended for the entire spring season are junior linebacker Cedric Figaro, sophomore linebacker Dan Quinn, and freshman offensive linemen Jeff Pearson, John Zaleski, and Jason Cegielski. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz declined to comment on any specific reasons for the suspen­sions, but hinted that the players may be able to return in August for fall workouts before the opening of the 1987 season. 
Figaro, a 6-3, 232-pound out­side linebacker, started all 11 games for the Irish last season, making 59 tackles to put him third on the team in that cate­gory. Figaro also set a Notre Dame record for fumble recoveries with se,ven. 
Wednesday, March 25, 1987-page 12 

Lacrosse wins opener, but falls in next two 
By CHRIS DALLAVO One of the players respon­Sports Writer sible for those efforts was 
senior John McLachlan, who 

What started out with a bang finished the three-game stretch ended with a whimper for the with eight goals and nine as­Notre Dame lacrosse team, as sists. Five other Irish players the Irish followed a promising ended the East Coast swing opening day win with two with at least five points, some­losses. thing which pleased O'Leary. 
Notre Dame head coach Rich "With the six players who O'Leary's squad romped to a make up our starting attack 12-3 victory over Radford, but and midfield units scoring so then suffered two tight defeats, well, the opposition can't con­first falling to Washington and centrate on stopping one man," Lee, 13-10, and then to Vil­noted O'Leary. lanova by a tally of 7-6. The Irish demonstrated their 
"We didn't play well against diversified scoring against Villanova," said O'Leary, "but Radford, using an early seven-we did have some good efforts 
see RADFORD, page 7

over the break." 
3-point long shot took longshots a long way 
Like it, love it, or hate it, you just can't ignore it. 
The three-point basket has made quite an impact in its initial year as part of the NCAA Tournament. The Runnin' Rebels of UNLV have enjoyed outside shooting's new twist all season, but never were they as glad to see that stripe of paint before their feet as last Sunday when the Rebels beat Iowa. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
UNLV hit 10-of-19 three-pointers in the second half to overcome a 19-point Iowa lead. Of course, the Rebels' 1-of-11 shooting from long distance in the first half had a little to do with their 19-point deficit in the first place. 
Another team to utilize the home-run shot with a great deal of success is Providence. Billy Donovan and Delray Brooks have made a practice of launching bombs fre­quently. And it got them to the Final Four. 
The other Final Four teams, Indiana and Syracuse, use the shot a bit differently. Steve Alford is one of the best in the business at hitting it, and Syracuse's Carl Monroe can shoot it with some consistency, but the other players on those squads rarely fire from the boonies. 
Notre Dame also used the three-point shot uncharac­teristically often against TCU. David Rivers made five from long range after hitting only 14 all season, and they provided the difference in the one-point victory. 
There are still a lot of questions surrounding the three­point shot. Some say if you're going to award three points for the long shots, you should make dunks and layups worth one, half-court shots worth five and maybe give 25 for a desperation heave from the opposite foul line. 
Others think its the greatest thing invented since caffeine-free soft drinks. While the line will probably inch back a couple of feet, the· rule appears to have made a few points with the NCAA. 
And without it, the Final Four may have had quite a different lineup. 
• 

One of the sadder stories to come out during the tourn­ament was the Gary McLain article in Sports Illustrated. In the midst of the tournament hoopla, McLain's revela­tions about his drug use reminded everyone that the world of sports still has many dark sides that even the incredible upsets, thrilling finishes and great performances can't cover up. 
McLain's story puts a cloud over one of college basket­ball's most fabled tournaments. Villanova's unlikely vic­tory over the dominating Georgetown Hoyas of the Patrick Ewing era was one of the great Cinderalla stories that the sport had witnessed, and now even that has a black eye. 
While McLain has tarnished the Villanova reputation with his story, head coach Rollie Massimino and the ad­mininistration should share some of the blame. And it would be a shame to see McLain turned into a hero for "bravely" giving us his story of how he used drugs during his years at Villanova, a story he reportedly received $40,000 for telling. 
At the time, the miracle victory seemed too good to be true. Now we see that it was.
• 
see ITEMS, page 10 


