
Senior week -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 137 FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1987 
the independent student ne\\spaper 'eninf;! 'iotre Dame and ""aint \far~·, 

down Notre Dame Ave. reveals a site reminder of times past. which has been commonplace for so 
Trustees do not alter ND investment policy 
By JIM RILEY News Editor 
The Board of Trustees decided last Saturday to con­tinue following its current policy on South African invest­ments at its meeting last weekend, according to Richard Conklin, director of public re­lations and information. 
Besides hearing the report of the investments committee, the Board also received reports from other committees includ­ing the student affairs commit­tee. 
Rev. Leon Sullivan, author of the Sullivan Priniciples, has scheduled a June 1 press con­ference at which he will tell uni­versities, such-as Notre Dame, which follow his principles whether or not he recommends that they divest. 
If necessary, members of the Board could then meet to review Notre Dame's policy in light of Sullivan's recommen­dations. "The executive com­mittee in concert with the in­vestments committee could act before the next Board meeting," Conklin said. 
The Board, however, is not bound by Sullivan's recom­mendations. 
The Board is following a policy which authorizes divest­ment of stock from firms doing business in South Africa which do not meet the requirements of the Equality of Opportunity Principles, which were formu­lated by Sullivan. 
In November, the Board decided it would completely reassess Notre Dame's invest­ment policy at its May meeting. Sullivan had said he would be making an announcement before the meeting as to whe­ther companies which follow his principles should pull out of South Africa. 
But, in April, Sullivan asked all colleges and universities which follow his principles to postpone any divestment deci­sions until after his June 1 press conference, according to Fa­ther Oliver Williams, associate provost and member of the Board's ad hoc committee on South African investments. 
During June, Sullivan will 
see TRUSTEES, page 4 



CoDlDlenceDlent draws near for ND, SMC graduates 
Sunday marks end for ND grads 
By TRIPP BALTZ Senior Staff Reporter 
May 17 will be a day of lasts. It will be the last day some 1,839 will be undergraduates at Notre Dame. 
It will be the last stage in postgraduate work by approximately 167 Law, 156 Masters, 189 MBA and 80 Ph.D. degree candidates. 
And it will be the last time University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will preside over Commencement, his 35th and Notre Dame's 142nd. 
The sixteenth president of Notre Dame will be the celebrant of the Bac­calaureate Mass at 5 p.m. Saturday in the Edmund P. Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
Hesburgh will receive the Univer­sity's Laetare Medal, awarded an­nually since 1883 to distinguished Amer­ican Catholics, at the graduation exercises starting at 2 p.m. at the ACC. 
Hesburgh will step down as president following commencement. His tenure has been the longest of any active American college or university presi­dent. 
Derek Bok, president of Harvard Uni­versity, will give the Commencement address. He will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
see ND, page 4 


SMC to hold exercises Saturday 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Saint Mary's Editor 
The undergraduate careers of 413 Saint Mary's seniors will come to a close Saturday at noon in the Court of LeMans Hall. 
This year's featured speaker, Arch­bishop Dom Helder Camara, and the 1987 graduating class will participate in the College's 140th commencement exercise. 
Today's events include the Nurses' Pinning Ceremony in the Church of Loretto at 1, the Baccalaureate Mass in Angela Athletic Facility at 4 and the 

The Observell1VIike Ury
Over the shoulder Color provided by Anheuser-Husch, Inc. Graduation Cocktail Party at the Cen­One last glance back as the car pulls long, but soon will be a welcome tury Center tonight at 10. 
Dom Helder has been active in social reform in Latin America since the early 



41,000 see Hesburgh farewell 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 
For the first time in more than three decades, a Notre Dame president bid farewell to the University. 
Speaking to a worldwide audience of more than 41,000 alumni, students, parents and guests last Saturday, retiring University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hes­burgh said goodbye to the office he has held for 35 years. 
"How does one exit quickly and gracefully after 35 years on center stage? Certainly it's not easy, and I must say that tonight, of all nights, I feel it's some­what difficult to speak when my heart's in my mouth," said Hesburgh, during an hour-long television pro­gram entitled "A, Notre Dame Moment." 
The event, which included the first presentation of Uni­versity President-elect Fa­ther Edward "Monk" Mal­loy to a nation-wide audience, was broadcast live via closed-circiut televi­sion from Washington Hall to 187 alumni clubs at 127 1930's. Dom Helder has worked in the slums of Rio De Janiero, where he con­centrated his efforts on improving low­income cooperative housing. 
The archbishop received his appoint­ment in 1964, and at this time he spoke against state-sanctioned violence and political torture. He-was banned from appearing in the news media by the government for these convictions. 
Dom Helder has received many in­ternational honors, including the Mar­tin Luther King, Jr. Award in 1970 and the Niwano Peace Prize in 1983. In ad­dition to these awards, the archbishop has been recogonized for his studies on a new understanding of gospel Iibera­
see SMC, page 4 
locations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico and San Salavador, according to Maria Miceli, assistant director of the alumni asso­ciation. 
The event also was the for­mal beginning of a $300 mil­lion development program. More than two-thirds of the goal has already been com­mitted, according to Rich­ard Conklin, director of public relations and infor­mation. 
Hesburgh, who will hold the title of president emeritus, spoke in front of members of the Board of Trustees, benefactors, alumni and other dignitaries assembled at Washington Hall. He spent much of his address expressing his feelings about the Univer­sity he has led since 1952. 
"(Notre Dame) is the greatest shrine of our Lady," he said. "I think what we should say tonight is that here, for over a cen­tury and a half, She has been working the most wonderful lasting miracles in the lives of young men, and now young women too." 
These miracles, Hesburgh said, provide him with his most precious memories. "To have been privy to so many of these spiritual and educational miracles," he said, "is a priviledge, I think, beyond counting. But that precisely is the most precious memory that sur­vives all those years, the miracles of our Lady in this place." 
Hesburgh gave thanks for having been present for these miracles. "My main word, in looking backwards over all those years, is thanksgiving; thanksgivng for graces unmerited and blessing absolutely without number, and of course miracles without number," he said. 
"What more could one want than to spend so many years in this wonderful place with so many wonderful people, Hesburgh asked. "How does one describe to those who haven't spent long years here how special, how very special this place is." . Hesburgh, who will give his final address as Univer­
see HESBURGH, page 6 


Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 2 
The Observer 
In Brief 
ROTC detachments at Notre Dame will have a new building. The building, which will be erected for the Army, Navy and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps units, is underwritten by a $5 million gift from trustee Frank Pasquerilla. The building will be constructed near Stepan Center and will include classrooms, faculty offices, supply facilities and cadet lounges. There are currently 791 stu­dents enrolled in the three programs. ROTC units cur­rently operate out of a "temporary" building erected in 1942. -The Observer 

Mark Pankowski, aNotreDamejunior, was named a finalist in the Time Magazine College Achievement Award competition. The award recognizes academic ex­cellence and exceptional achievement in extracurricular activities. Pankowski traveled to New York for an awards banquet and was featured in a special promotional section of the campus edition of Time. Pankowski is The Obser­ver's managing editor. -The Observer. 
Wine coolers are dangerous, Lake County Prosecutor Jack F. Crawford said Thursday. Crawford said that wine coolers, a wine and juice mix consumed by two teen-agers shortly before their deaths, are popular among underage drinkers and very dangerous. Crawford said four adults charged in connection with supplying alcohol at the two parties where the deaths occurred will appear in court May 21. "Wine coolers are some of the most dangerous beverages on the market," Crawford said. "Kids drink them like soda pop or lemonade." -Associated Press 
Potato ice cream might be called a half-baked idea by some, but ice cream made with potatoes was un­veiled Wednesday in Boise, Idaho. "Made With Potatoes? Outrageous!" reads the label on All Natural Al & Reed's Ice Cream. The ice cream is made with milk products, but with potatoes it is 80 percent fat free, said company President Alan Reed. It is sweetened· with fruit and has 20 percent to 50 percent fewer calories than conventional ice cream, he said. It will retail for just over $3 a quart. The ice cream now comes in seven flavors, none of which are potato -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
ND Concert Band will be presenting a lawn concert tonight at 6:30p.m. The free concert will be performed on the lawn in front of the Administration Building. -The Observer 
The Glee Club will hold its annual commencement concert at Stepan Center on Saturday at 9 p.m. The concert is in honor of the seniors and features the favorites of the Glee Club's graduating seniors. There is no admission charge. -The Observer 
Shenanigans will also hold a commencement concert. The final concert of the year will be Saturday at 1 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets will be available at the door and ticket vouchers are redeemable until12:50 p.m.-The Observer 


Weather 
Toss your caps into a sunny sky, r--?";:.1 graduates. Sunny skies with only a few~

:Q:~I 
clouds are expected today, Saturday and :~ i Sunday. The high today will be in the 70s; .-i the low tonight in the low 50s. On Saturday 
1 · • 
and Sunday, the high will be in the high · 
70s. -Associated Press · · 
Color for today's paper provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 

Design Editors .............. Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Chris Murphy ........................................ Chris Donnelly Viewpoint Layout.. ......... : .. Heidi Traxler Typesetters ...................... Shawn Sexton Accent Copy Editor ........ Mike Naughton .................................... Smedly A. Laboe Accent Layout ............. Katy Kranenburg News Editor..... .. ........ Jim Riley Photographers .. .. ........... Fred Dobie Sports Copy Editors ... .. Dennis Corrigan ................................................ Mike Ury ....................................... Rick Rietbrock ........................................... Susan Coene 
The Obsernr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Tbe Observer is a member of The Auodated Press. All reproduction rights are 

'---rese_rv_ec:~_.________________, 


Commencement will leave us with our friends, memories 
It's still a little hard to believe. 
The clues have been there for weeks: com­mencement ticket applications, registration Marypackets from the Alumni Office, y,earbooks that have our pictures in the senior section, "for Heilmann sale" signs advertising all the things that have 

made small, impersonal dorm rooms home for -----------­
the last four years. 

Yet, when I overheard several juniors who had finished exams congratulate themselves on their new status as seniors, I felt just a little surprised -and more than a little sad -that my class was actually graduating and another class was waiting to take our places. 
I guess it's always a bit overwhelming to realize that things go on without you, that it's time to let go. It's hard to remember that com­mencement means "beginning" when every event, from a trip to the Grotto to a meal in the dining hall, takes on the almost maudlin sense of finality, a litany of "lasts." 
Those lasts are almost over now. Today I'll pick up my cap and gown and in two days I'll be holding my diploma and standing in front of the Dome and the Library posing for the rounds of family pictures that go along with this kind of thing. It's what we've all worked for through four long years of studying and tests and more studying and more tests. Somehow, though, it's something that I thought would happen far off friends we've made here will be the best of our in the comfortable future, not this Sunday. lives. The phrase "Notre Dame family" sounds 

I've had the same kind of feeling during trite and overused, but there really is something Senior Week, when all the events seem like a to it. The friends that I've cheered with at foot­frenzied attempt to capture memories of ball games, grown with and shared with have friends and moments of fun and hold them fast become a part of me that will always be there. for a lifetime. I think they've made me a better person; I 
Four years ago, I wrote my first column in know they've made my time here precious. The Observer. It was about being a freshman, I know, too, that leaving Notre Dame will not and about how the members of Class of 1987 mean leaving them behind. were adjusting to their new roles as college In a poem called "To Autumn" John Keats students. I wrote about learning to negotiate writes, "Where are the songs of spring? Ay, campus pathways, acquainting myself with where are they?/ Ask not for them, Thou hast "Domer talk," about Emil and Cap'n Crunch. Thy music too." I've been thinking about those 
Upon rereading that column with the sense words a lot during the past few days, when I've of wistful reminiscence thathas colored almost wondered what things will be like when our everything I've done for the past few weeks, I days at Notre Dame are over. We've had our noticed something rather surprising: not once spring here, and as sweet as the songs of these in the whole article did I mention friends among last four years have been, I'm sure those that these quintessential college elements. Surpris­are to come will be just as wonderful. ing, because as I sit here writing this, my For now, though, thank you, Class of 1987, for friends are all I can think of. the fun and the friends, the memories and the 
I suppose everyone feels like I do that the music of our own special spring. 
GRADUATES: 
Cl) .,
:::::s 

~ 
-
ca CD 
> CD 0 "C 
D)
0


,.. -· 
:::::s
...
fit From your
"'C tn 
..... college grad 


CDca specialist D) 
:::::s 


CJ -D) 
:::::s
...
u 

..... ~ 
·-Greg Kantauskas Dan Meachum N
.a 

For this special GMAC financing, all you need is your diploma or letter of graduation, 0
ca 

proof of a job, a low down payment, and the ability to meet monthly payments. 0
LL Bring this ad and get $400 off the purchase price, or a 90-day deferral on your payments, 
<
w 

as a graduation present from GMAC and Rafferty's. m
w 


a: c: ­
(I)
LL 







~FF(E~~R~~;~··"o"., 
PONTIAC • BUICK • GMC • CHRYSLER • PLYMOUTH • DODGE 616-683-3920 616·684·8200 
1102 S. 11th St., (U.S. 31·33 N.), Niles, Ml 
..______•With purchase of Rust Proofing _______.. 
.--------.,_------------~----------~--~--------~--------------­
Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 3 

The Observer 

$300 million drive for funds begins 
Special to The Observer 
The University formally announced its $300 million fund-raising drive during retiring University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's valedictory ad­dress last Saturday. 
The program is intended to position Notre Dame among the nation's most eminent institutions of higher learing, according to University officials. 
More than two-thirds of the goal, or $203.5 million, has already been commit­ted. 
The chairman of the "Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment" campaign is Donald Keough, chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and president of the Coca-Cola company. 
A major thrust of the fund­raising effort, the largest ever launched by a Catholic university, is graduate edu­cation and research. 
Among items related to that goal are $10 million for computing; a microelectronics research center ($2.5 million); an aerospace research center. ($1.5 million); and a life sciences resource center ($3 million). 
The largest single cam­paign component is $60 mil­lion in endowment for stu­dent aid. A $10 million classroom building is among physical facilities sought. 
Another $35.5 million is targeted for enhancement of student life, including new residence halls, social facilities and student life programs. 
Three million dollars is set aside for restoration of Sa­cred Heart Church. 
"Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment" is the fifth major fund-raising endeavor for the University since 1960, and its $300 million goal exceeds the total of $289.6 million raised in the four previous campaigns. 
During Hesburgh's presidency, which began in 1952, Notre Dame's endow­ment has gone from $9 mil­lion to more than $400 mil­lion and annual voluntary support from $1.1 million to $48.3 million. 
Valedictorians to address classes 
By SANDY CERIMELE Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The valedictorians of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will address their classmates, families and faculty at com­mencement ceremonies this weekend. 
Saint Mary's valedictorian, Laura Milligan said that in her speech, she will thank the people who have contributed to her success at Saint Mary's. 
"I hope to represent the class and identify with them, includ­ing my experiences here," Mil­ligan said. 
Milligan will speak at Saint Mary's commencement cere­mony slated for Saturday after­noon. 
John Zic, Notre Dame valedictorian, will speak at commencement excercises Sunday afternoon. "My speech begins with a story, takes you on a journey and says good­bye," he said. 
Milligan, an education major from Arlington Heights, Ill., 
earned  a 3.97  grade  point  
average.  
Zic,  a  science  pre­ 

professional major from Oak Lawn, Ill., earned a 3.983 grade point average. 
The students were chosen by their administrators on the sole basis of having the highest of cumulative grade point average at their schools. 
The students attributed their academic success to hard work and organization, yet the honor took them both by surprise. 
"I just wanted to get the most out of the school I attended. I knew my grades were high enough, but I didn't seriously consider myself a candidate," said Milligan. 
Zic said he assuined someone else had a 4.0 because "two­thirds of graduating valedic­torians probably have a 4.0." However, he added, "I knew exactly what had to be done, and I learned how to play the game quickly." 
Milligan was a student teacher at Harris School in Granger, Ind. The experience prepared her to take the Na­tional Teachers Exam, which certifies her as a teacher. She is presently interviewing in her hometown and expects to be notified at the end of May. She hopes to teach one of the pri­mary grades. 
Zic said he will attend Van­derbilt University School of Medicine in the Fall, on a full four-year scholarship from the university. 

All of us at the 

COUNTRY HARVESTER 

would like to wish all 1987 Notre Dame Grads Best of luck and much success in the future. 
Locdted in LaFortune Basement Open 11:30 -6:00 Mon-Fri. 
'.(c'.(c'.(c'.(c'.(c'Jfc$'*''*''*' 


GRADUATING? 
The ultimate personalized yift for saying goodbye to uld friends and lovers. Published poet will write 5 personalized poems as good-bye presents. Send name, address, telephone, letter and $30 to: 
POETRY 1416 WELLWOOD RD. SILVER SPRING, MD. 20904 (301)989-0131 
The greatest gift Is a part of oneself. Each of the following people, In their own way, has given this gift to me and has helped make this graduation day a reaUty. I am forever grateful. 
How did you put up with me for 4 years? What a great roommate and friend! Best of luck at Arthur Anderson! Come on down to Atlanta for a little southern hospitality and a lot of American Pie! 
LAURA: You've helped me through some difficult times, you helped me cope, and you've given me hope. Your friendship is a precious treasure and a special part of my life. Thanks for caring! Best of luck at Loyola University next year! 
FR. PAT: Thanks for all the prayers, advice, and good times. I'll look forward to visiting you often when I return to campus. Keep up the great work in the hall, in your research, and most of all, in the council; and remember--the K of C is you and mel 
Not everything In life works out the way we'd like but I still feel that the times I spent with you were some of
VICKY: 

my best times at Notre Dame. I hope that some day your dream comes true. Until then, keep smiling. praying and loving! 
DEBBIE: Who could ask for a better sister? Certainly not mel Keep up the hard work--l'm extremely proud of you! You might want to check into the "frequent flyer" fares to secure your round-trip tickets to Atlanta! 
GRANDPA: Thanks for all your generosity and support over the years. I'm thrilled that you're here for graduation--thanks for making the effort. I'm looking forward to saying, "Not again, Grandpa" for many years 
to come! MAMAD 
AND DAD: I know there were students who received higher grades, who did more for the University, and who did more for others--we can't all be heroes. But I also know that no student had more supportive, understanding, and 
loving parents than both of you. Thanks for everything you have done for me. Most of all, thanks for accepting me for what I am. I'm proud to be your son. 
Ya'll are welcome to visit me in Atlanta anytime!! 
Love, Tom 
Both students were active in extra-curricular activities in addition to devoting their time to studies. 
Milligan was a resident as­sistent in Regina Hall last year and an active participant in several intramural sports during her three years at Saint Mary's. 
Zic was a member of the Notre Dame marching and con­cert bands during his four years and was awarded the Outstanding Senior Marching 




Fraternity inducts new members 
By KEVIN BECKER Editor-in-Chief 
The Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will induct 73 new members into its frater­nity Saturday at 11:30 a.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Founded on Dec. 5, 1776, Phi Beta Kappa was the first soci­ety to have a Greek letter name and is a national fraternity devoted to honoring academic achievment and excellence in the pursuit of a liberal educa­tion. 
"We evaluate students' files 
who have excelled academi­
cally and check to see if they 
have undertaken a truly liberal 
education," said Professor 
Walter Nicgorski, Notre Dame 
chapter secretary. "After eval­
uation of their vitae, their 
names are proposed to the gen­
eral chapter for induction or 
objection.'' 
This year's new members are students from the College of Arts and Letters and the Col­lege of Science and generally have a grade point average above 3.7, the chapter's cutoff point for consideration as a member. 
Seventy one of the initiates are graduating seniors; the other two are graduates. 
Notre Dame's standards for membership are rather strin­gent compared to those of other chapters nationally, Nicgorski said. 
"There are general national guidelines for acceptance into the fraternity, but our chapter seems to keep some very high standards compared to others across the country," he said. 
This year's initiation cere­mony will include several traditional exercises such as the Administration of the Promise, the presentation of in­itiates for certificates and the explanation of the Phi Beta Kappa key. The speaker for the ceremony will be University President-elect Edward "Monk" Malloy. 
The first members of the Notre Dame chapter of Phi Beta Kappa were inducted in May of 1968. 
The Observer 


Trustees 
continued from page 1 
travel to South Africa where he will meet with black union leaders to discuss what effect the withdrawal of American businesses would have on South Africa, Williams said. 
The Board began its weekend of meetings with committee meetings on Thursday and on Friday morning. The student affairs committee met Friday in LaFortune Student Center. Three reports were given by student government. Reports were also presented by 
ND 
continued from page 1 
John Zic, an undergraduate from the College of Science with the highest academic average of the class of 1987, will deliver the valedictory to his classmates. 
Bok's will be one of fourteen honorary degrees to be con­ferred Sunday. 
Rosalynn Carter, humanitarian and wife of Jimmy Carter, the country's 39th president, will receive a doctor of laws. 
Also receiving a doctor of laws will be Coretta Scott King, chief executive officer of the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Change, and Joan Kroc, philanthropist and humanitarian. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
tion based on the non-violent actions of Christ. 
Dom Helder will receive an Honorary Doctor of Humanities degree from the College. 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, ex­ecutive director of the Joseph 
P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation and chair of the International Special Olympics, will also receive an Honorary Doctor of Humanities Degree. 
Sister Helen Vincent, FMM, is this year's President's Medal Recipient. Sister Helen, presi­well placed words get in the way as they enjoy the the Senior Bar Picnic this week. 

Scholastic and student commit­tees concerned with intellec­tual life, residential life and international students. 
The intellectual life commit­tee's report included a recom­mendation that "the Univer­sity target financial aid as its primary fundraising goal" so as to increase diversity in the student body. 
The committee also made recommendations concerning admissions, the Freshman Year of Studies and student­faculty interaction. "All projected classroom building should include areas adjacent to classrooms in which faculty and students could meet infor-
Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming and David Rockefel­ler, chairman of the Board of the Rockefeller group, will also receive doctor of laws degrees. 
Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathematics and provost of Notre Dame, will receive a doctor of laws degree. 
Rev. Martin Marty, Farifax 
M. Cone Distinguished Service Professor of the History of Modern Christianity at the Uni­versity of Chicago, will receive a doctor of laws degree. 
Other doctor of laws degree recepients include Yevgeny Velikhov, vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences; Father Richard Warner, provincial superior of the In­diana Province of the Holy Cross; Father Rembert Weak­land, archbishop of Mil-
dent of Stella Maris College in Madras, India, is the 15th recipient of this award which honors individuals who have supported and served both their communities and Saint Mary's in an outstanding fas­hion. 
Laura Ann Milligan of Ar­lington Heights, IL, Saint Mary's valedictorian, will also address an assembly of seniors, parents, faculty and administrators tomorrow. Mil­ligan is an elementary educa­tion major. 
In the event of inclement weather the ceremonies will be held inside the Angela Athletic Facility. 
mally after classes,'' the report said. 
The residential life commit­tee's recommendations in­cluded a recommendation that a chaplain live in each women's dorm. The committee also sug­gested a training seminar for resident assistants, an im­proved transfer orientation program and ensured housing for transfer students. 
The committee on the inter­national dimension of Notre Dame made many recommen­dations including that "a much greater effort should be made to attract more quality interna­tional students especially on the undergraduate level." 
waukee; and Jean Wilkowski, chairman of the board of Vol­unteers in Technical Assis­tance. 
Receiving honorary doctor of sciences degrees will be Nor­man Borlaug, College Station, Texas, doctor of science; and Dr. Carlos Chagas, president of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences. 
Anti·Yiolence Activist 
Centar lOt Teaclllng Non-VIolence l NCTV full·llme llaff. Lodging l teoocllyr. AeMarch on ago-on. 
_,.__ publlllllng l lobbying .....,_ vlo'--Including TV, ftlm, war toya,eporta, -lea. Nut to U llllnola. Student 1oM1 Clefenlble. 217-311+111211. 
P.O. Boa 2157, Cllampalgn tL 11820 
Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 4 
Courier says he helped North get Contras money, weapons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -National Security Council Aide Lt. Col. Oliver North worked directly with a courier who helped get money and weapons to the Nicaraguan Contras at a time Congress had banned U.S. mil­itary aid to the rebels, the Iran­
Contra  hearings  were  told  
Thursday.  
The  testimony,  by  former  

courier Robert Owen, trig­gered the sudden resignation of a White House official he impl­icated, Johnathan S. Miller. 
The second week of the House-Senate hearings con­cluded with the testimony by Owen, who gave the commit­tees details of his role as mid­dleman between North and Contra leaders. Owen will return to the witness table when the hearings resume on Tuesday. 
After Thursday's session, Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., chairman of the Senate Intelli­gence Committee, said Owen's testimony demonstrated that North and perhaps others in the Reagan administration were clearly involved in providing arms and information to the Contras at a time when a con­gressional ban on such aid was in effect. 
"It appears that Mr. Owen is another kind of well-meaning person who has gotten drawn into a whole series of actions in a tragic way because the government tried to find a way to get around the law," Boren said. 
Owen testified that Miller, director of the White House of­fice of administration, had cashed traveler's checks from North for distribution to a leader of the Contra rebels in March 1985. 
Zenith Z-148 Desktop PC, It beats osmosis, 

Absorb more with this Zenith PC, featuring: 
• 
Compatibility with virtually all IBM PC" software 

• 
MS-DOS-the system that takes you from college to career 

• 
256K of RAM-expandable to 640K on main board 

• 
Up to 720K of floppy disk storage 

• 
Dual speed processing that offers a response time up to 60% faster than the IBM PC 

• 
The ability to support most peripherals right out of the box 

• 
And the 20 Megabyte Hard Disk version offers increased storage and expandability in a low-cost PC. 


Dual Drive Special Student Pnce 

$799.00 * 
Hard Disk Special Student Pnce 

$1,199.00 * 
Ask about the Special Student Pricing on our other exciting Zenith Personal Computers and Monitors! 
Special Student Prices on the Zenith Z-148 Desktop PC now available at: 
Computer Center Demo Room Lisa Hines 
239-5153 
Askabout our Zenith Data Systems Credit Card. 
"Moodor nci 1ndudecl mpoces. 
Special pncmg ot1er goo:! ooly oo 
7j111rN [~ferns
purchases throoghZenith Coolacl(s) hsted above by sludenl:s, faculty and stall fa" lhelr own use. Noeihef 
r 
Oscoonls apply. Lum ooe persooal 
THE QUALITY G0£5 IN BEFORE THE NAME G0£5 ON 
caJ1lllltl aoo ooe rn:ntcr pw lf1dvOa many 12-fTUlth penod. Pnces suliject to change wrthoot nooce. 
C> 1987,leni1hDataSyst..., 01 


"Congratulations Class of 1987" 
-Frankie & Family 1213 Lincolnway East · Mishawaka · 256-1444 
"Specializing
.
tn 
Italian Cuisine" 


Dean Hof01an receives Senior Fellow award 

By JIM RILEY the greatest influence on the News Editor senior class, according to Dave Miklos, senior class president. Emil Hofman, dean of the "I hadn't thought about (the Freshman Year of Studies and award) and had absolutely no retiring professor of indication it was coming," Hof­chemistry, has been named the man said. He noted that he does recipient of this year's Senior not have as much direct con­Fellowship Award. tact with the seniors as others 
The award was to be pre­do. sented at the senior's last trip "But I do interview close to to the Grotto at 9 Thursday 150 seniors and write recom­night. mendations for them for medi­
Hofman said the award "was cal school," he said. completely unexpected, and I Nominations were accepted was absolutely surprised." from seniors during Senior 
The award is given to the Month sign-ups in April. member of the present Notre Seniors voted during the first 
Dame community who has had week of May. 
MIAMI PLAZA LIQUOR MART 
4527 Miami St. (across from Scotsdale Mall) 
BEST WISHES TO THE GRADUATING CLASS OF 1987 
-party favorites for the big day-
CANADIAN CLUB 1.75 LTR  $14.99  
JACK DANIELS BLACK 1.75 LTR  $18.99  
STOLICNA Y A VODKA 80 750M  $8.99  
J&B SCOTCH LITER  $11.99  
DE KUYPER PEACH SCHNAPPS 1.75 LTR  $9.39  
BEEFEATER'S GIN 1.75 LTR  $17.99  
MOET & CRANDON WHITE STAR NN 750M  $13.99  
DOMAINE CRANDON BRUT 750M  $8.99  
KORBEL BRUT I E. DRY 750M  $ 6.99  
CINZANO ASTI SPUMANTIE 750M  $6.99  
GANCIA ASTI SPUMANTIE 750M  $ 6.49  
PAUL MASSON CHAMPAGNES 750M  $4.59  
LE DOMAINE CHAMPAGNES 750M  $3.39  
ANDRE BRUT 750M  $2.99  
ANDRE E. DRY I PINK 750M  $ 2.10  

CALL 291-3355 TO ORDER CASH & CARRY GOOD THRU MAY 16. 1987 
Number 007, Dr. Emil Hofman, donned his uni­exam week. Nearly 1,000 students took the form for the last time as he led his team of exam which was held in North Dining Hall. Hof­exam proctors into the last semi-annual fresh­man was also named this year's senior fellow. man chemistry final "Emil" on Wednesday of Story at left. 
ND officers start work Jone 1 
Special to The Observer dent since 1952, a term of 35 The library has been years. renamed the Theodore M. Hes­
Father Edward Malloy will Hesburgh, whose last sched­burgh Library by action of the officially assume the uled public appearance as trustees. The ACC has been presidency of Notre Dame June president is at Notre Dame's renamed the Edmund P. Joyce 
1. commencement Sunday, will Athletic and Convocation Cen­
Malloy, an associate provost have the title president ter. and professor of theology, was emeritus. Father William Beauchamp elected to head the University He and Father Edmund succeeds Joyce as executive by the Board of Trustees last Joyce, retiring executive vice vice president. November. He succeeds Fa­president, will have offices on Malloy will be formally in­ther Theodore Hesburgh who the thirteenth floor of the li­augurated as president Sept. served as Notre Dame's presi-brary. 23. 
Professors receive awards at SMC 
By MARILYN BENCHIK for excellence in teaching, par­"This committee narrows the Saint Mary's Editor ticularly in the first and list down." second-year courses, accor­She added that the final 
Students and faculty mem­ding to Susan Vanek, freshman choice is decided by the Col­
bers were honored at the an­academic counselor. lege's Academic Affairs Coun­
nual Saint Mary's College "This award is given for ex­cil, not the Maria Pieta Com­
Honors Convocation for their cellence in teaching of the mittee. 
work this year. freshman and sophomore Balka, this year's recipient 
Don Balka, of the College's courses," Vanek said. of the award, joined the College Mathematics Department, Nominations are taken from in 1974. Before coming to Saint received the Maria Pieta students, faculty and adminis­Mary's he taught at the Univer­Award and Father David trators. "The list of names for sity of Missouri. Murphy, associate professor of the nomination is given to the Balka received his bachelor religious studies, was awarded Maria Pieta Committee, com­of science degree from Mis­this year's Spes Unica Award. prised of two administrators, souri Valley College, his 
The Maria Pieta Award is three faculty members and master's degrees from St. presented to a faculty member four students," Vanek said. Francis College and Indiana 

Would like to extend their appreciation and congratulations to the NOTRE DAME CLASS of 1987 
University Center 6502 Grape Road Mishawaka 277-7273 Mon.-Thurs. 11:30-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 11:30-1 t·oo Sunday 12:00-10:00 
University, and his Ph.D. from the University of Missouri. 
Balka has also been promoted from associate pro­fessor to professor, the highest teaching rank at the College. 
The Spes Unica Award is pre­sented annually to a Saint Mary's faculty member who has exhibited dedicated ser­vice to the College for an ex­tended period of time. 
Nominations for the award also come from students, fac­ulty and administrators. The names are collected by the Col­lege's Academic Affairs Coun­cil which then selects the award's recipient. 
Murphy came to Saint Mary's as a campus minister in 1974 after ending his career as a principal and a superin­tendent of schools in the Chicago area. 
He received h1s bachelor's degree from Mt. Carmel Col­lege, his master's from the Uni­versity of Chicago and his· doc­torate from the University of Notre Dame. 
Murphy edited a series of es­says by his theology students entitled "What I Believe," pub­lished in 1985. 
Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 6 
The Observer 


Retiring University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce clapped along with the Notre Dame Chorale and 41,000 television viewers as 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
sity President at graduation this Sunday, said Notre Dame's future may outshine its past. "One does not just look back, one must look ahead," he said. 
Malloy, who will officially take control of the University on June 1, also addressed Notre Dame's future. "We will es­tablish institutes like Kellog and the Peace Institute. We will allow people to come here for symposiums. We will try to find ways to do that kind of critical research that we have the tal­ents and the resources to pro­vide," he said. 

"We need to explore residen­tiality; the dorm structure that has been so crucial in Notre Dame's history," he added. "We need to expand our stu­dent body, not in numbers, but in diversity. We need more black students, hispanic stu~ dents. We need the resources to get them here in the first place and we need the support structures to make them happy and proud to be Notre Dame students," he said. 
The administrators, staff and faculty he has worked with, said Hesburgh, are a blessing to the University. "To have been president of such a com­pany of valiant searching souls, for so many years; to have walked at the head of this 35-year profession, this is the blessing that I hope to carry into eternity," he said. 
This 35-year profession has left Hesburgh "deepfully grateful to God and His blessed Mother," as well as the Notre Dame community, he said. 
"I leave my future in the hands of God," he said. "I leave this University," he added, "in the hands of Notre Dame, our Lady." 
''AW­RIGHT'' 
YOU MADE IT 
Congratulations----we know first hand what it took to get as far as you have. 
And as our way of saying "great job" and "good luck", we're making a limited number of copies of our newest publication available to the Class of 1987. Free. 
So whether you're continuing your education, starting your new career, or just kicking back, send for your free copy of 
A wright I Made It: A Graduate's Guide to Continued Success. 
Mail to: Network Concepts 955 Elder Avenue Bronx, NY 10473 
NAME: ADDRESS: CITY: STATE: ZIP: CURRENT PLANS: 
To All My Friends In the Class of1987 
Keep In Touch 
and remember: 
All things are possible to him that believeth. 
Love always, Brian K. Faulkner 

A Full-Color Commemorative Portrait Available at the Hammes Bookstore 
\fie~~_O_i_n_t____________Frida-y,Ma-y15,1-007-p~age7 
Seniors continue to grow from experience 

Throughout our lives, there are veqr few things of which we can be certain. One of these is the concept of change. No matter what paths our lives take through the course of time, we can al­ways be sure that certain changes along the way are inevitable. Our lives are not stagnant entries that exist aim­lessly in this world. They are dynamic beings whose change reflects the growth that they experience physically, emotionally, and mentally. These changes are for the benefit of both the beings, and the society in which they live. For if it were not for this dynamic, ever-changing characteristic, life would cease. 
Dave Miklos 

guest column 
This weekend marks one of the most important changes of our lives to date, the passing from student to adult. This change, although greatly anticipated, brings with it a full range of possibly unexpected ramifications. The cross­ing of this line is the end of the basic educational process which has been an integral part of our lives for the last sixteen years. The adjustment is not only as a student emerging from a con­quered educational system, but as an adult entering a world with new goals and aspirations. Upon entering this new world, it becomes apparent that what we have to offer is a direct result of the experiences and knowledge that we have acquired in these past sixteen years. Upon close examination, one finds that these experiences do not merely consist of a type of dry, educa­tional growth. But in fact, these last relatively few years have been a pre­cious speck of earthly time, serving to establish not only our intellect, but also 
P.O.BoxQ 
Seniors congratulated on a job well done 
Dear Graduating Seniors: 

First of all, best congratulations on a task well done. We are all proud of your many accomplishments during the past four years, not the least of which is your upcoming graduation. With your parents, may I say to one and all, well done; we are proud of you. 
We are bending every effort to make the greatest weekend for you and your families. In a very true way, it is always the best weekend of the year, full of pride, joy, satisfaction, hope, anticipa­tion, and a bit of nostalgia, too. What will life be like for you at your five year reunion in 1992? Even better, I trust, as you gather five years from now to swap stories: How the jobs went, how the marriages came to be, how the next generation of Domers are doing here, and maybe even, what happened to Fa­ther Ted? 
We have a distinguished speaker and an impressive list of honorary doctors who will join your class. I know you will join me in giving President Bok of Harvard and our other distinguished the emotional and spiritual traits which fomprise the entire person. 
Within this mere tick of the universal clock, we have had the chance to dis­cover ourselves. But, more important­ly, we have had the opportunity to ex­perience others, and to draw upon those experiences. Perhaps the biggest fac­tor influencing the graduates that sit anxiously awaiting this weekend's com­mencement, is the impact of the many special personal relationships that have been established here at Notre Dame. For it is the unique people at this University, which not only share their ideas, emotions and friendships on a personal basis, who are the source of the unique spirit and pride which we all know as Notre Dame. 
As an incoming freshman, each of us entered the Notre Dame community with a series of expectations and an­ticipations. We were thrust into a foreign atmosphere consisting of dorms, dining halls, and Emil. Com­plicating the situation even further, was the new, and seemingly infinite community of unique people. Through the next four years we were to realize that these people are Notre Dame's most precious commidity. The four years which have comprised our Notre Dame experience, have consisted of many transitions. These many transi­tions have carried us through our phases of inevitable growth. But, in­herent in these transitions are the dear friends that have made them possible. As we continue throughout our lives, these transitionary phases may seem to meld together, the knowledge ac­quired may gradually slip, and the grades earned eventually forgotten. But, the most treasured aspect of our lives at Notre Dame, the many friends that we have acquired, will persist forever. 
Thus it was a great honor to be entrusted with the stewardship of the Class of 1987, and we thank you for al­lowing us to serve you as your class officers. Three years ago, Jim, Annie, Mark, and Dave established a commit­ment to excellence in the class office that has been emulated by each succeeding administration. Class unity was designated as the one goal to which all activities were directed, and this has been maintained ever since. The class budget has tripled sinced then, but the commitment to promoting class unity continues. So it is appropriate that on this weekend of changes that we reded­icate ourselves to the promotion of class unity through the continuing Notre Dame community called the alumni. 
The Class of 1987 will continue to exist as long as the friendships developed at Notre Dame flourish, and we will recon­vene every five years to celebrate our love for each other, our God, and our alma mater. Fred Nelson will keep us informed of friends who have married, relocated, borne children, and eventu­ally, died. We will share these events with each other through the Notre Dame Alumni Magazine. At the end of each Class of 1987 column will be Fred's address to which more information can be sent. Please share your lives with us. We will also compose two newslet­ters each year that will feature the class news in a looser format: anec­dotes, gossip, and "true stories." Fred will also be the vehicle for this effort. 
We look forward to our first return as alumni, to cheer for old Notre Dame, to legitimately tailgate in Green Field and to rekindle a candle at the Grotto. We will sponsor a pre-reunion reunion on September 19, the Michigan State game weekend. We realize that not everyone will not receive tickets for 
guests a typical Notre Dame welcome. Let's save the champagne and fire crackers for after the ceremony. I am sure you will make your graduation a truly class event that will be one of the best ever. 
I have always found graduations both touching and moving. The thought of so many of you launching your life's careers, the realization of your family's and your own hopes and dreams for this happy day, the joy of past accomplish­ments joined with future hopes ­horizons stretching all across this world for many years to come, this indeed is a moment to remember and to celebrate with those you love best. 
I would like to give you a parting thought from Fyodor Dostoyevsky's "The Brothers Karamazov." 
"We will remember ... all our lives. And even if we are occupied with im­portant things, even if we attain honor or fall into misfortune -still let us re­member how good it was once here, when we were all together, united by a good and kind feeling which made us, for the time ... better perhaps than we are... " 
"You must know that there is nothing higher and stronger and more wholesome and good for life in the fu­ture than some good memory. People talk to you a great deal about your edu­cation, but some good sacred memory.. .is perhaps the best educa­tion. If a man carries many such memories with him into his life, he is safe to the end of his days." 
My best hopes and prayers go with you as we complete our time here to­gether. I'll be back, God willing, and the river not rising, but then, so will all of you. God be with you, one and all. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President 
Father Malloy gives advice for the future 
To the Class of 1987: 
Congratulations on the successful completion of your undergraduate degree here at Notre Dame. I know that you have had your moments of struggle and pain, but I hope that in retrospect the good times seem predominate -the friendships made, the insights gained and the service rendered. You have en­riched us with your presence and I know that you will carry a bit of the this game, but come celebrate our friendships and share new lives. We will inform you about the weekend ac­tivities in the first newsletter to come out in late August, but mark your calen­dar and ticket application now. 
Our four years at Notre Dame was an opportunity made possible for most of us through our parents' love and dedication. We each share our ap­preciation for our parents' sacrifices in different ways, and this weekend which celebrates our achievements at Notre Dame, away from our families, really celebrates our parents' successses. They have established and developed values and ethics that have prepared us for the obligations of friendship, re­ligion, scholarly works, and the chal­lenges and responsibilities of life. So we dedicate this Commencement Weekend to our parents in apprecia­tion, thanks and love. We love you. 
Each of us will depart with a lump in our throat, and tears in our eyes. Isn't it wonderful that it hurts so much to leave, that life-long friendships have been established and must now survive separation, that Notre Dame has be­come God's sanctuary, and that we realize the moral and ethical responsi­bilities that we must now commit our­selves? It is a sad and difficult weekend, but this pain stands as a tes­timony to the awesome four years preceding. 
Commencement is a weekend of changes but not endings. Say goodbye, but promise to return. Be happy for the opportunity of new life challenges, but never forget Our Lady and her home, Notre Dame. 
Dave Miklos is the President, Melissa Moody is the Vice President, Fred Nel­son is the Secretary, and Ed LaHood is the Treasurer of the Class of 1987. 
place wherever you go. 
The future will be full of determina­tive choices -whether to marry or remain single, what kind of career to pursue, how to allow God a fitting place, and how much responsibility to assume for resolving the great issues of the day. Do not be afraid to take some risks. 
You are now a life-time member of the Notre Dame family. Get involved with your local alumni club. Stay inter­ested in what is happening on campus and come back to visit us frequently. Notre Dame is only as good as its people. We will continue to depend upon your counsel, your criticism and your support in the years ahead. May God be with you. 
Reverend Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. President-Elect 
Quote of the day 

''The world is round and the place which may seem like the end may also be the beginning." 
Ivy Baker Priest (1905-1975) 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Edttor-m-Chiel ... ......... Kevin Becker Business Manager... . ....... Bnan P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managmg Editor .. .... Mark Pankowski Advertismg Design Manager... . Michael Whitton News Edttor . .... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager.... . ....... Melinda Chapleau News Edttor... ... Jim Riley Production Manager... . ............ Melissa Warnke 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty Vtewpomt Edttor .. . ....... Chns Murphy ProJects Manager........ . ........... Mark Mclaughlin ol Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es Sports Ed1tor . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager... . ............... Shawn Sexton ol the adm1mstrat1on of 611her 1nst1tution The news 1s reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor .. ............. Michael Naughton Controller.... ................ . ............ Tracy Schindele as possible Uns1gned editorials represent the op1n1on of the maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ..... Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager. .. Laura Stanton Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column Photo Ed1tor . . ............ Jim Carroll Development Manager. . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Shannon space is available to all members ot the community and the tree expression ot varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged Founded November 3, 1968 
--~·----------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

•

en1or 


ee 
' 
_____ Photos by Fred Dobie ______ 
Friday, May 15' 1987 -page 8-9 
.» 

-· 
-

) / 

-

Accent 
Friday, May 15, 1987-page 10 
The Praise of Famous Men 
T he highlight of the live telecast from Washington  through the outward sign of an inward grace, the efficacy of a  Yeats. Ned and Ted together were a center that held. The  photographed as a date to Jackie Onassls. The late Sister  It wouldn't surprise me; at least he seems to that way to me,  
Hall on May 9 was the conclu­ sacrament had become visible.  sight of veterans upon whom  Madaiaeva, from Saint J'1ary's  compared with Frank O'Malley.  
sion when Father Ted and Fa­ They showed us the kind of  grace has rested is an enrich­ used to spend a lot of time  Popes and presidents have  
ther Ned stood together on the  bonding that has the rarity of a  ment; they surprised us with  with N.D. students. She ex­ been lucky to have him on  
stage to give us a sense of  miracle. It was different from  the eloquence of their presence  plained: "They like to tall< to a  their sides as a secret sharer.  
what life-long friendship can  the family togetherness of Jack  as our elder statesmen; the  woman as a friend they don't  He's been lucky to have Ned  
mean. We saw Qn the monitors  Kennedy with Bobby, because  frosts have touched their heads  have to buy dinner for later."  Joyce as his secret sharer.  
the lovely views of campus;  It wasn't so protective. It wasn't  with winter; age has almost  Did she ever have to explain  Isn't love enough to make a  
watched a review of the careers  the air of closeness that is spe­ spared their faces. How does  after a tete-a-tete, "We're only  marriage? Not if its the kind  
of our heroes; and our  cial to priests, though that was  one praise the charismatic  friends"? Perhaps humorously,  that hits you in the head like  
memories were stirred when we  there too.  charm? The captains and the  like Woody Allen.  cheap wine "Hope Is the feat­ 
listened to Cronkite highlight­ Colleagues, whom work.  kings departing could not have  Professor Frank O'Malley was  hered thing that lives in the  
ing the Hesburgh years. The  memories, dream and suffering  touched so many hearts.  one of the legends of this  soul," wrote Emily Dickinson.  
Chorale, singing the "Halls of  had united, stood together,  They've been the hub that  campus. His mind always  Love is the feathered thing that  
- Ivy," pleasantly exposed us to  without the usual swelling  keeps our world turning; they've been the shoulders  seemed to be in flight, as though mentally he were on  lives in the head if you're not careful. The love out of which  
Father Robert Griffin  bearing the weight of our world; like sticks In a bundle, they'd be tough to break.  the way to finding an answer that would explain all the mys­teries. I would meet him on his  marriages are made is a many­splendoured thing; It covers a multitude of sins.  
Letters to a Lonely God  Watching them was like the experience of going back stage  travels in the Morris Inn. He would smile, greet me with an  A dog, they say, is man's best friend. I know that's true  
to meet the stage manager. As  enourmous compliment, then  when I see Darby 0'0111 II  
the old-school schmaltz,  chorus; the cynosure of all  top bananas, they'd be the first  smile again, as though we were  watching every move I make,  
though I prefer the glee club  eyes, like Hamlet entering  to tell us they need us more  conspirators who shared a se­ unwilling to let me out of his  
version. Then we heard the  soius. Accepting the homage of  than we need them. But with­ cret that not even the great  sight. Such fidelity is charming,  
speeches, and it was almost  the applause they were entitled  out them, life at Notre Dame  ones could get us to tell. He  when it's offered to you by a  
over, except for my surprise at  to, they appeared humble,  would be like playing the tank  would shuffle off, leaving me  dog. Would you really want a  
the lump in my throat at what  modest, happy, teary-eyed,  towns.  immensely flattered. Out of his  spouse to be so faithful?  
came next.  pleased, grateful, perhaps  Is It sentimentality to linger  presence, I realized that only  It was a Notre Dame mo­ 
Ned crossed the stage to  proud of themselves. Trusting,  so on this? Not if you remem­ he knew the secret, and I  ment. We were there when the  
shake hands with Ted, after  respecting, admiring the other,  ber It as a lesson, presented  wasn't in on the conspiracy;  torch was passed. Mok and Bill  
that almost Imperceptible  they had become leaders, now  with two human beings, thriv­ nevertheless, he had made  wait in the wings. They have a  
hesitation so common to males  sharing the same lime light;  ing on loyalty, as vislals aid in  himself dear to me. Later, I  tough act to follow. Fathers  
who wonder if a handshake  they had achieved a success  a living tableau. It's a dog-eat­ guessed that the secret was  Ned and Ted had their finest  
alone is appropriate, or whe­ side-by-side, that neither could  dog world. How many of the  that there is no brass ring; and  hour as mentors, as they stood  
ther It should be followed by a  achieve if he had walked alone.  hail-fellows, well-met, in Wash­ the sweet smile he wore was  taking curtain calls like old  
- hug. Men receiving accolades  Showing mutual affection, they  ington play the game as  the mask to hide his despair.  pros: embodiments of a  
don't hold hands, and only  were being inducted as Immor­ though each man were an is­ Isn't doubt a part of the  shining idealism that has gone  
children and jocks (and maybe  tals into N.D.'s Hall of Fame.  land, entire of himself? No gov­ whimsy of the Irish?  out of style In our country. The  
drunks) sling their arms over  If a picture could accurately  ernment or corporation in the  Hesburgh endears himself, I  cornerstone of that idealism is  
the other's shoulder in a pose  bear witness to the spiritual  world has had a president and  think. with his gift of discern­ honor. Honorable men who  
out of Hummelware. Ned and  chemistry in air as the super­ vice president so sensitively in  Ing some desire of the heart or  hold each other in honor were  
Ted stood there looking en­ stars took the center of the  touch as Ted and Ned have  some personal conviction that  being honored by us. Arthur's  
dearingly clumsy as they tried  stage like matinee idols, then  been, the right hand always  you're harboring. He doesn't  camelot was lost when honor  
to remember what else they  that picture, worth more than a  knowing what the left had was  flatter you, as O'Malley did,  was lost by a knight who was  
could do, like lifting up joined  thousand words, could be kept  doing. No myth serves them as  with his awareness of you, as  the best friend of the king.  
hands over their heads as  in a chapel like a holy Icon of  metaphor, so that they're al­ though he were showing off his  Peace and justice, faith, hope,  
though they had just been  friendship.  ways mentioned together, like  insightfulness. He treats his  joy and trust are exiles from a  
nominated as their party's  Who would have expected  the Four Horsemen; their close­ insights as though they were  kingdom that is governed by  
choice. They were astonishingly  them to save the best gift for  ness entitles them to be their  off limits to discussion, as  lies.  
handsome, vigorous and fit as  last? They couldn't have been  own myth.  though he had a gentleman's  Poems, says Macieish,  
retirees, about to start on  so endearing if they had self­ If you have a friend, you can  agreement with you to respect  shouldn't mean, but be. Poems  
second careers.  consciously posed as empire­ move mountains; love may turn  your privacy. Ted's way is to  defy paraphrase. So do Ned  
builders; they had to be inno­ out as a one-night stand, un­ surprise you with his percep­ and Ted. Monk and Bill, in  
In this moment's epiphany, a  cent and free of any  less you're married. A wife  tiveness when you're off guard:  their time, will show us truth  
- new highlight was added that couldn't have been programmed. They had cap­tured between them something wonderful to see, as though  self-awareness of how good and beautiful they were. "Things fall apart; the center cannot hold Mere anarchy Is loosed upon the world," wrote  should be your friend, as well as your lover, if you plan to keep her as a tong-distance runner "We're just friends," quips Woody Allen,  overhearing him discuss you with a stranger, you discover he's been in touch with some truth In you that makes you tick. Is that really the way It is?  and beauty that is unique and untranslatable. Perhaps we will not know until they have finished how much moral gran­deur they had.  


The jazz player 
Special to The Observer lege circuits. He took a hiatus for a few years 
If you walk across South quad in the 60's when Interest in jazz tonight, you might hear a partic­music declined but came back ularly life-like version of the clas­and procuded a best selling al­sic song "Gonna Fly Now" of bum in the U.K., M.F. Horn, "Rocky" fame. In fact, it will be which has been followed by v* > the live version. Maynard Fer­seven more successful albums. guson, virtuoso trumpeter and Highlights of Ferguson's band leader for four decades is career have included a perfor­bringing his big band style of mance at the closing ceremonies jazz music to Notre Dame this of the 1976 Olympics in evening for a very special eve­Montreat canada and two ning of sound and light. Grammy award nominations. He 
also has the distinction of being 

Even though Ferguson may be the only big band musician to most recognizable for his work break into the pop charts, with on motion picture projects such his number one hit single as "Rocky," his talents and expe­"Gonna Fly Now." rience extend much further than Last summer, Ferguson soundtracks. In the 50's he iauched a brand new seven piece played with Charlie Barnett, fusion jazz band, High Voltage, Jimmy Dorsey, and the Stan Ken­to much critical acclaim. ( ton band. After performing with Maynard Ferguson 8t High Vol-~­Kenton, he was first-call studio tage will be playing tonight from 
> 

trumpeter and recorded tllm 9 to I a.m. admission is free and .Jl. 
> 

soundtracks for Paramount. He refreshments will be served. In .a_ then created his own band, the words of Senior Class Presi­signed with a record company dent, Dave Miklos, "It will be a and toured the jazz club and col-classy evening." 
courtesy of Entertainment Management Maynard Ferguson will bring his big band jazz sound to South quad tonight. 
-
The Observer Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 11 
-
Royal, Hicks await draft day 
Sports Briefs 
By RICK RIETBROCK tunity to prove I can play there. the wars. 
In NL action last night, Houston handed the New York Mets another loss, 5-4. Also, it was Pittsburgh over San Diego, 10-3, Cincinnati over Montreal, 10-9, and Philadelphia over Atlanta, 5-4. -Associated Press 
In the American League yesterday, New York took over first place in the AL East by beating Texas, 9-1. Baltimore topped Kansas City, 4-3, and Chicago edged Cleveland, 4-3. -Associated Press 
Johnny Parsons added to the long list of crashes at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Thursday. His car suffered damage to the right side, while Parsons suffered a broken left heel and broken right ankle. Rick Mias­kiewicz also crashed. His car had light damage, but Mias­kiewicz was not injured. The crashes put the total number during the qualifying for this year's race at 19. -Associated Press 
The Philadelphia Flyers defeated the Montreal Canadiens, 4-3, Thursday mght to clinch the Wales Con­ference finals four games to two. Rick Tocchet's goal at 
7: 11 of the third period sent the Flyers into the Stanley Cup finals against the Edmonton Oilers. The game was delayed 17 minutes by a brawl at the end of the pre-game warmups. -Associated Press 
Alysheba, winner of the Kentucky Derby, has been made an early 7-5 favorite for Saturday's 112th running of the Preakness Stakes. Although Alysheba ran a slow half mile (50 and three-fifths seconds), his trainer, Jack Van Berg said he'd rather have his colt run slow in prac­tice. -Associated Press 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The summer after senior year. A time for transition. A time of uncertainty. 
Donald Royal and Scott Hicks will get a hint of what is in store for them on June 22, the day the NBA holds its an­nual player draft of college players. But draft day will not provide any clear answers for either of the Notre Dame grads. 
"Both of them are very nice college players," said Marty Blake, head of NBA scouting services. "But with some teams still in playoffs, they haven't even had a chance to do a lot of scouting." 
Given the usual surprise picks on draft day, it is nearly impossible to tell exactly where the two Irish players will get drafted. Most observers, feel that Royal will go anywhere from late in the first round to early in the second, while Hicks should be taken in one of the late rounds. 
"I'm going to get the oppor­tunity, and that's all I can ask," said Royal. "From there it's up to me. It's always been a dream of mine to play in the NBA, and I'll have the oppor­
"If I had a choice, I'd like to go to a team on the West Coast. I would also like to be drafted by a team that wants to run, because I think my game is more suited to an up-tempo style." 
Royal showed marked im­provement every season at Notre Dame and finished his final regular season with a team-leading 15.7 scoring average and 6.9 rebounding mark. He shot over 57 percent from the field and 82 percent from the foul line. 
Hicks rebounded from a dis­appointing junior year to average 11.3 points and 3.2 rebounds per game. 
Notre Dame head basketball coach, Digger Phelps, says that both players could fit in if drafted by the proper teams, but that the key is what impres­sion they make after getting drafted. 
"The scouts love Royal," Phelps said. "They think he can fit into the off-guard or small forward slot. He'll be a real sleeper. He's going to be one of those guys that if the right team will take him, he's going to make it for a long time because he's fundamentally sound and he's been through 
"Scotty will get picked by someone in the later rounds. After that, it's all up to him. He's got to make his mark and convince someone that he can help the team." 
As part of a team rule im­posed by Phelps, both players conducted several interviews before the basketball season, opening up other possibilities in case their NBA dreams run afoul. 
Ken Barlow was the last Notre Dame player to be drafted in the first round. He was taken by the Los Angeles Lakers last year with the final pick of the first round. He was then traded to the Atlanta Hawks, but played in Italy. 
Blake said Navy center David Robinson is the likely bet for the first pick. Robinson, however, has two years of Navy service remaining, and will not be eligible to play until that service is completed. Any team that picks him has until next year's draft to sign him. After that he is eligible for the draft again. 
Other players that figure to go very early include Geor­getown forward Reggie Wil­liams and Ohio State forward Dennis Hopson. 

TM ~Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, eccepts classified ~Ising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of H-ciQIIr Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for nexto(lay classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prapald, either In P8fliOI'I or by mall. The charve Is 10 cents per live
Classifieds char.c:tera per day. 
FREE BEERI FREE BEER! FREE  WHY I AM A DESTINY:  Franimal •  Phoenix?  
NOTICES  WANTED  BEER I Really, I need a ride to Midway Airport  Because of Katie I  As we come to the close of these tour years, It Is only fining that we look back  Pelican I  
In Chicago on Tuesday, May 12. Call  at our many achievements. We ·made It  
Andrew at 1532.  VALERIE DEMELLO: FRESHMAN FET­ through freshman physics, fixed up a  Mel  
ADOPTION: We're a happily married  Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay big  TISHES? MARKS? PINA COLADAS.  record number of friends through the date  Just one night  
couple (phyaicial)jlaycholoQiat) who  $$$. Call 3586.  SCOPING. : PAPERS. BURGER KINGI­ squad, fell asleep In the hallway (you In  
deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be 118naltlve to a child's needs and can  ....................... Need a lemale  LAST MINUTE FRENCH TUTORING BEFORE FINALS. CALL PIERRE AT  ·YOUR FAVORITE THINGS. : CON­GRATULATIONS YOU'RE FINALLY  Holy Cross and I In Walsh), and de neutered a man along the way.  Mary, Maura, Pat:  
provide a warm loving home where s  roommate  2311-5414 OR 2n-2282  GRADUATING ·TO BIGGER : AND  What's left?  Love you all. Lotsa Luck. Congrata, etc..  
child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect  for this summerll Have cheap apt.  ...............  BETIER, WELL AT LEAST OLDER, THINGS.  MBH  etc. DC  
(21 2) 724-7942.  Call Mary x431 1........................  Helpl I need ride to Mpls-Leaving after May 9. Call Lee Ann 284-5439  Beckerdoo- 
Every time I step into a bowling alley I'll  
Need female roomate  DRAINGURGLES  remember you. Good luck at Wllllamal  John, Matthew,  
UNIVERSITY RESUME  for this summer  LAST PERSONAL OF YOUR COLLEGE  Farewell to the founding Drainheads and  We'll have to go "Dancing with My  Chris, Steve  
Proleaalonal Reaumea Student Rat..  Have cheap spt Call Maf'i x431 1  CAREER MARK SKOLNICK!, SO LOOK HARD (YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN).  welcome the new generation. Best of luck to L' In China, Wolly at Cornell, Roto  Roomate" in New York this summer. Love,  Thanks for three great years In 1 ·B. Good luck, Bros.  
Ne•r the Mall  END IT WITH A SMILE, I ALWAYS SAY.  In Florence and OSU, S. In South Bend  MBH  DC  
272-&38  LOVE YOU, MOOSE. GOOSE (AND  (again). Y'all are a great bunch a fags  
ISN'T SHE SILLY?)  ... I'll miss yal  
Trlppr.  Thanks, Mom and Dad,  Spook?  
Typln~~Word Procesa1ng · 2n-5014  EARN THOUSANDS this summer  SCHMALTZ STAATS HERE -GOOD  for the FOUR years  Spook?  
working as your own boss. Wanted  LUCK TO THE INNSBRUCK IRISH, THE  DRAINGURGLES, second installment  under the  Spook?  
young, aggressive people to sell Trevor  SND·EAS, THE LATE NIGHT OBSEA­ Also, let's toast honorary Dralnheads:  DOME  
Island Sun Care Products, the Official  VEAITES AND ALL 'YOUZ WHO WERE  Tlmoth on his WestQuest, Lenny at U.  11111111111111111111  
Outdoor Tanning Products of the Pan-Am  HERE TO BUILD SOME MEMORIES  Chicago, Voluminous out east again and  XOXOXOXOXOXOXO,anne c  
NEW ORLEANS  Games. Call Todd at 1·800·624-7122  WITH, ESPECIALLY SCHWES. GEAT  Brian and the Semiconductors. Also, the  
RESIDENTSIIII  Dralnchlcks ­the Queen, the Schlallrau,  
Carolina (Bill) and Jacoblus. Pius, Diane  Do you Remember ...  Dupree highlights  
I need aomeone to dnve my car back from Now Orleans to South Bend (or the area) in the beginning of June. If you are going home after school and com1ng back tor summer school or would be Interested In driving the car beck lor me, please call Kevin Becker at 2311-7471 at The Ob­urver or 3482 at home.  FOR SALE :Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the I acts today I Call 1·312· 7 42· 1 1 42 Ext. 7316  THANKS I I couldn't leave without one more parllng shot at: Scott Dup,_ Ha, ha, hal See ya.  (p. galore) And, of course, those mysterious CredH­silhouettes And let's not Iorge! the Bird .. AlmM, Frank, Keith, Larry •nd M•her, It's been great watching your evolution­ary ascent from reptiles to old cows.  Motown happy hours in Lyons basement, Kay's aura, Bill trying to jump out the window after a nap on the beanbag chairs, "Where's Q?", MC and Murph "skipping rocks", Beth's rain of Mar­guerltas from the second bunk, Karen and Ketti slamming shots, Christine hiding In the closet, the LOUD quad aoph year, jock sniffs All and Christine, Lisa In Fort Lauderdale, poor Betsy who hed to  T elecoplera Motor Oils Carolina upset Irish baseball Blecho baseball YankM baseball Stay tuned for lor next year's fun-filled Installments. Y•nk-???  
FOR SALE:1978 VW AABBIT,GOOD CONDITION,$1 ,200,239-5893.  Han MaLl,  : From the ashes a phoenix did emerge. : And the rise will surely continue.  put up with us at grand central station, "I never" games, Jan the cat, Pen's bed  The Brew Crew Ia not through Be gone non-belleversl  
( LOST/FOUND I  FOR SALE DODGE CHALLENGER LOADED,SPORTY $1100 293­3883,NICK  Woal nil Bal Kal Wen  : Thanks for everything. GOOD LUCKI : Love, K.McK.  sores, Mary's exam look, waiting for All all the time, Penny the coth major study­Ing The Love Boat, Kay's all-nlghters, Beth's strut, Kalil's date not being able to run his fingers through her hair be·  Mullen, when will you team?  
I WANT MY JEAN JACKETIIIII IF YOU 'MISTAKENLY" TOOK IT FRIDAY NIGHT, I'D APPRECIATE IT IF YOU'D RETURN IT (AS WELL AS MY IDI). PLEASE HAVE A HEART AND GIVE IT  MOVING OFF CAMPUS? NEED FURNITURE? CALL PERRY 272·2252 MUST SELL ALL FURNITURE BEFORE GOING BACK TO CANADA  So, Alice, what Ia your favorite Baskin Robbins "avor? Thanks lor smiling. Good luck and take care. B.  : MOM and DAD, Thanks for everything the last four years, both at home and at Notre Dame. I couldn't have done It with· out you. I love you bot\1 very much. TOMMY  cause of her hair gel, Bertha the beer bong, the note "Jen keep your hands oil my spritz" , being afraid to eat at the dining hall alone, always left-left ... KEEP IN TOUCH, O.K. love, amc  You are messing w"h the muter and you are peylng tor H. Domination Ia mine. Hey Murphy and Hartwlger You got a lot of guts. How would you like to be has beena like thst Dumbra guy  
BACK----NO HARD FEELINGS. MONICA £1337  : FOR SALE PLANE TICKET to Portland,  QUOTE OF THE DAY: "HAPPINESS IS A SON CALLED TOM." CONGAATULA·  LISA, Thanks for being the best sister  ChrisT.  and hla Yanke. Don't you know that In October hla Yanke won't be around no  
.............................. ·····················•  OR CHEAPIII Dan £2009  TIONSI WE ARE PROUD OF YOUI  anyone could ever hope for. I love you  I'm SO glad I drove you home from the  more.  
LOST:A PAIR OF RAYBANS AT OR  LOVE, DAD AND MAMA D  very much. : TOMMY  bars last October.  
NEAR BADIN HALL ON SATUA·  LOFT FOR SALE: LOFT FOR SALE:  xo  ......  
DAY,APAIL 25... $20 REWARD. CALL  LOFT FOR SALE: ROOM 325 LE MANS,  TOM· CONGRATULATIONS! WHAT  Rudy Brandl  
GREG AT £3170  SENIOR SELLOUT. LOFT (BEAUTY) AND FRIG. LET'S NEGOTIATE. CALL  WILL I DO WITHOUT YOU NEXT YEAR? YOU DON'T KNOW HOW  CEA·  : : boom boom ain't It great to be crazy  Congratal Mayhemlzed, bedlamlza and all that. Good luck In all future Brentlzlng.  
GERTIE-5125.  MUCH IT'S MEANT TO ME TO KNOW  When we were day editors did you ever  Rock  
THAT YOU WERE ONLY A PHONE  think we'd move up so quickly through  
................................................................  CALL OR A SHORT WALK AWAY .  the ranks to become band beat  
L---FO_R_R_EN_T~I  IL-_T_IC_K_ET_S___,  YOUR VOICE WAS SOMETIMES A SOURCE OF STABILITY FOR ME AND I THANK YOU FOR "BEING THERE" WHEN I NEEDED YOU. KNOW THAT I  reporters? Well, we made it \o that p<es­tlgious post, and It's time to move on. Hope our days at IU are as much fun as here.  Liz-Dog Martucci................................ What would graduation be without a final Observer classified. Congratulations!  Oh My God Frank, the Irish hsve a chance. Tuck, you play ball.  
WISH YOU MUCH HAPPINESS IN AT·  Love,  Four tong years( not tor you for us). We  
3 BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR RENT  NEED 1-2 GRADUATION TIX. PLEASE  LANTA. N.D. JUST WON'T BE THE  MBH  promise never to tell the whole story  I don't need you Johnny MO, with your  
AVAILABLE 87-88 SCHOOL YEAR 10  CALL HELEN £288-8157  SAME WITHOUT YOU. GOOD LUCKI  (what with Mom and Dad In and all, not  feet up on the desk figuring out different  
Minutes from campus 233-6298  LOVE, DEB  Kim Klmeree, MK, and (please don't call  to mention your brother) I Thanks Liz, for leading the trumpets In social festivity,  mind games for Black Tuesday. Ven­geance Ia Mlnel Yeah.  
WELL-FURNISHED TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT DURING SUMMER MONTHS: RENT IS NEGOTI­ABLE: CALL 283-3348:283·3457:283·  PERSONALS  KATIE·  me) Murph, I could say something happy, I oould say somthlng sad. I could say something sappy, I could say something bad.  for living oil campus so we could too, for dating Smed • tor a while there we thought nobody would, and lest we not forget, for making us watch you torture  .......................................................... Icy Toea: I love you Sockl1181 One  
1489.  Notre DamriMC atudenta ere the  I'm sure that by the time you read this,  But as you can see,  those poor Innocent rodents In the sup­ 
beet. K•plan atudente are the beat. Be  I'll ~ mlsaing you even more than I had  poetry is not my cup of tea,  posed name of science ( we know you  
both I LSAT cle-e llllrt 5-12 for the 5-15 LSAT. Phone 272-4135 lor Info.  Imagined. You mean more to me than I can express. Thank you · for caring so  110 I'll just aay, hope your life Is full of joy, not strife  did It lor fun). Good Luck, treat yourself to a niCe vacation this summer, we hear  MURPH  
3 bedroom DUPLEX Lv, DnR, Kit $275 plua utilities for 87-88 at 1 410 Andei'IOn near Mllllna at Portage & Elwood 282· 1014 ta•ve mesaage  GRADUATION TICKETS for sale Call Artie at 1787  much, for listening to my problems, for being so kind. Love, Tim  And may your future years be fllled with many beers. Love, MBH  the Air Force Ia offering a nice deluxe travel arrangement. Here's to sister Liz, sister Liz, sister Liz ....... The Dogs and Peter(we had to blame this on someone/)  You made a hell of a mark. Congratula· tiona and thsnkyou. Sex-dog  
............................. r ................................. .  

-
The Observer Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 12
-
Faust 
continued from page 16 
officially ended, Gerry Faust had resigned as head coach and the final regular season game was an embarrassing 58-7 loss to a low-class team. But rays of hope began to shine before we left campus for Thanksgiv­ing break as the University named Lou Holtz as the new coach. Our enthusiasm began to swell -cautiously. 
Things didn't turn out much better with Digger Phelps and his squad. Hopes were high after last season's showing in the tournament and Phelps was counting on four key seniors to lead the way. The regular season saw an inspired victory against Syracuse in the famed Carrier Dome -supposedly an arena where no one leaves alive. But the Irish would also be dealt a heartbreaking 75-74 loss to Duke and a crushing 73­61 loss to North Carolina. We finished the season strong with a 23-5 record and we were off to play the University of Arkansas-Little Rock, a team none of us had actually heard of. But soon, we knew them all too well. The team never seemed to get things going in Minneapolis that day, and the predictions of getting to the "Sweet Sixteen" were just wishful thinking as we fell 90­83. 
ALSO'S... The men's fencing team began to turn heads and receive the attention it deserved on campus when it went 26-0 and captured the NCAA title. The women took second and sophomore Molly 
Irish to take summer tour 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Like many Notre Dame stu­dents, the Notre Dame men's basketball squad has planned a summer vacation, a European vacation. The Irish are tentatively scheduled to play 10 games in Yugoslavia and Italy starting May 24 and ending June 6. 
The Irish will play the Yugos­lavian national team as well as Yugoslavian club teams. The team will make a sidetrip to Trieste, Italy, for a pair of games. 
Under NCAA rules, a school is permitted one foreign trip every four years. This marks the third time that Notre Daem has traveled to Yugoslavia. The Yugoslavian club team Sibenik, who the Irish beat in an exhibition game to open the 1986-87 season, will host the the tour. 
This will be the first oppor­tunity that Phelps will have to see freshman Keith Robinson in an Irish uniform. Robinson, who sat out this season under the provisions of Proposition 48, has been declared eligible by the NCAA following an ap­peal from Notre Dame, accor­ding to Athletic Department spokesman John Heisler. 
David Rivers, who under­went surgery following the NCAA Tournament to correct complications stemming from last fall's auto accident, has been given the green light to play from doctors, according to Heisler. How much time he will see is uncertain. 
Sullivan captured the individ­ual title.. .In track, fellow junior Robert Nobles teamed with John McNelis, Jeff Van Wie, and Jim Tyler to place third in the NCAA indoors in the 4x800 relay. 
SENIOR YEAR 
We've just completed our final year and the first year of the Holtz era. The new head coach didn't make any prom­ises, but did show a new sense of pride and a new excitement both on and off th~ field (what football player -or student -did not enjoy those 6 a.m. puke runs). Nevertheless, our senior year was filled with close com­ebacks and heartaches. And it all began against Michigan. Who will ever forget the won­derful officiating in the end zone and the dissappointing 24­23 loss to the second ranked team in the country. Or the sad feelings we all had rumbling through our bodies after the Pittsburgh, Penn State and Louisiana State losses. Yet, someone, somehwere was not going to let the class of '87 graduate without one glorious moment on the football field. Fittingly, it was the last game of the season and it was a come­from-behind win in the tradi­tional Notre Dame honor. Despite the fact that the CBS cameras missed the action we all knew when they came back to the air and we saw the hoards of white jerseys swarm­ing the field. Finally the luck of the Irish had turned and we went out winners. 
The basketball season was now ahead of us and unfortun­ately it looked as if our hopes would be dashed once again ­this time, before the season even began. In August, David Rivers was involved in a near­fatal accident and no one was sure what the outcome would be. It was that incident that sparked the emergence of two seniors on the squad -Donald Royal and Scott Hicks. Their 


The Irish lost in their last bowl appearance to the SMU Mustangs in the Aloha Bowl. Two 5-6 
leadership on and off the court sparked the team to "Giant Kil­ler" status. Will the A&CC ever see a contest like that Febuary 1 game against the top-ranked North Carolina? Or a near game-losing technical called on the crowd? There also was the downing of Duke and DePaul in the "friendly con­fines" giving us more than enough reasons to celebrate. Irish finished 22-7 and after get­ting by two stingy opponents in postseason play, Digger Phelps had to take his squad into Bren­dan Byrne Arena for a third-round contest against none other than the Tarheels. The Meadowlands have never been good to the Irish and this time was no different as the team went down in defeat. 74-68. This squad had most certainly met with great adversity from the beginning, but like the football team, did not give up in the end. 
ALSO'S... In fencing, it was the women's team this time that took the national champi­onship after a successful 19-0 regular season. The men would finish fourth as a team, but senior Charles Higgs­Coulthard would become only the second four-time All­American in fencing history at Notre Dame.. .In field hockey, senior classmate Corrine DiGiacomo became the school's leading scorer with a finaltally of 68 goals ... Suzanne DeVine finishes her term with the Irish swimming program after setting six individual Uni­versity records ... The Irish lacrosse team was paced by senior John McLachlan who had an outstanding year with 48 points, on 19 goals, and 29 
assists. Those assists tie him for the school record in a season and rank him in the na­tional top ten for that category. 
As we enter the "fifth quar­ter" of our game, we now are officially alumni -and some of us may even show up to tail­gaters in loud plaid pants. But one thing will always tie us to­gether ... No matter how far away from the Dome we roam, the Notre Dame athletic tradi­tion will always be with us. Re­member, the people that graced us with all these memories are our classmates and friends -those we ate with, walked to class with, and laughed with. That's a Notre Dame moment that will never be written in the books -only in the hearts of the members of the class of '87. 
"Congratulations to the Class of 1987" 
E D W A R D F I S C H_E R 

NOTRE DAME 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A 

CONTEMI)ORARYPORTRAIT 

'TAKE NOTRE DAME HOME WITH 
YOU' 
Available at the Hammes Bookstore 2nd floor 
-



The Observer 

onations necessary to stay in ticket hunt 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Among other things, graduating from Notre Dame means no more camping out for foootball tickets. But if you want to see the Irish this or any other fall, getting tickets is a bit more complicated. 
"Graduating seniors get a free ride for ticket applications year," said Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski. "By a free ride, I mean they don't have to con­tribute anything to get applica­tions. We're shooting for next Friday (May 22) to get them out. They'll be sent to the stu­dent's permanent address that we have on file. 
"The applications are for each home and away game. For most game, the limit is for a pair of tickets per applica­tion. For some away games, like Miami or USC, the number of tickets is unlimited. Every­one has an equal chance of get-
Person top rookie 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's Chuck Person, booed by Pacer fans when he was drafted, be­came a starter early in the season, finished as the team's scoring leader and capped his first year in the NBA by win­ning the league's Rookie of the Year award on Thursday. 
The 6-foot-8, 220-pound for-
Congratulations and Good Luck for the Future to Rudy and the Class of '87. 
-Love, 
Mom, Dad 
and Linda 

Here For The Game . • • 
The Weekend . • • 
The Day? 
Running Short of Cash? 
Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1st Source Bank says ''Welcome,'' and invites you to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource Cen~rs, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a half of the Notre Dame Campus: 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


~source
Resource and CIRRUS . . . long on convenience when you're short on cash! -.aank 
ting tickets. There's no dis­adavantage or advantage for graduating this or any other year." 
But after next year, the free ride comes to an end. 
"For the next five years, you have to make a contribution of $25 per year to the annual fund to get an application," said Bobinski. "From five years to 50 years, the contribution goes up to $50. After 50 years, the contribution goes back to $25." 
If you're thinking about season tickets, be advised that Notre Dame has not sold a season ticket since 1966, and ac­cording to Bobinski, the waiting list is "huge." 
"Barring something drastic like adding on to the stadium or building a new stadium, we're not going to have openings. If you want to get on the waiting list, send a note to the ticket office with your name and address." 
Seems like waiting in line was much more simple. 
ward from Auburn, a surprise pick when General Manager Donnie Walsh made him the fourth player chosen in last year's draft, started 78 games and averaged 18.8 points a game as the Pacers went 41-41 in the regular season. 
The team's improvement of 15 victories over a year ago was the biggest turnaround in the NBA. 
~ 
CIRRUS 
Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 13 
-

The ObserverMike Moran 

Larry Gallo will add administrative duties to at Wake Forest. his dugout responsibilities in his new position 
Irish look to extend win streak 
By STEVE MEGARGEE "I saw Rutgers out on the B  Division  teams  include  
Sports Writer West Coast," said Fallon. Kalbas-Daggs  and  O'Brien­ 
''They played some of the same Kilway.  

"We're playing at the peak of our game,'' said Fallon. ''We should be playing as well as we can expect to play. I think we have as good a chance as we did last year." 
The Rutgers tournament will mark the last competition for the men's tennis team under the direction of Fallon, who has been coaching the Irish for the past 34 years. Fallon holds a record of 518-201, including eight 20-win seasons in the past nine years. 
Gallo 
continued from page 16 
were opponents in their college days, Gallo at Rhode Island and Greer at Connecticut. 
"George Greer and I have al­ways hoped it would be possible for us to work together in col-
Riding high on an eight­match winning streak, the men's tennis team will try to follow up on a successful 23-10 regular season by capturing the Eastern Collegiate Cham­pionship at Rutgers, N.J., on May 25. 
"We know a few teams like Rutgers, Cornell, and a few other teams from the East Coast will be there, like maybe Dartmouth," said Irish head coach Tom Fallon. "If we win it this year, we get to retire the cup, so that gives us some extra incentive." 
Notre Dame has won the Eas­tern Collegiates for two con­secutive years, when the Championships were held in Rochester, N.Y. The site this year has been changed to the home court of Rutgers, the team that might give the Irish the most problems. 
teams we did, and they looked strong. Rutgers, Dartmouth and Cornell should be the toug­hest competition.'' 
The Irish will try to win the Championships without the aid of junior captain Dan Walsh. Walsh, who led the team with a 31-2 regular season singles record, has a personal commit­ment that will keep him out of action. 
"I'm sure we'll miss Walsh, but I think we're pretty strong down the line," said Fallon. "We have a lot of depth." 
Notre Dame will be going with Brian Kalbas (20-11 singles record) and Mike Wal­lace (20-9) in the A Division. Dave Reiter (17-6), Paul Daggs (19-6), Sean O'Brien (4-3) and Jim Kilway will compete in the B Division. 
Reiter and Wallace will team up in A Division doubles. The 
... 
-

------~-------~-~-~­
1[()(1(1~------------------~------F-rida-y,M-ay-15,_100-7-p-age-15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
AND AS I ADDRESS YOU, 
TO

1U[ {;f?IJJ)UAT!NG LLASS OF­
1'187, KUP TillS IN t1/ND­
I 



Campus 
Friday 
6:30p.m.: Lawn Concert, ND Concert Band, in front of Administration Building 
6:30 -8:00 p.m.: Supper, North and South Dining Halls 
8:00 p.m.: Graduate School Reception for degree recipients in the Graduate School and their families 
9:00p.m.: Senior Class Dance, on South Quad 
Saturday 
9:30 a.m. :ROTC Commissioning, the Athletic and Convocation Center, South Dome 
11:30 a.m. Phi Beta Kappa installation, Memorial Library Auditorium (inductees requested to arrive at 11:00 a.m.) 
1:00 p.m.: Shenanigans performance, Washington Hall 
2:00p.m.: University Reception by the Officers of the University, Center for Con­tinuing Education 
4:00p.m.: Graduates assemble for aca­demic procession, Athletic and Convoca­tion Center, gymnasiums above Gates 8 and 10. Graduates only 
4:20 p.m.: Academic Procession, Ath­letic and Convocation Center 
5:00 p.m.: Baccalaureate Mass, Ath­
letic and Convocation Center, South Dome 6:45p.m.: Graduation Dinner 
8:30 p.m.: Graduation Dinner 
9:00p.m.: Concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club, Stepan Center 
Sunday 
9: 00 a.m. : Brunch, North and South Dining Halls, tickets required for non­graduates 
12:30 p.m.: Distribution of Bachelor's and Master's Diplomas, Athletic and Con­vocation Center, Gate 3. Graduates only 
1: 15 p.m.: Academic Procession, Ath­letic and Convocation Center, North Dome. Cap and gown required 
2:00p.m.: Commencement and Confer­ring of Degrees, Athletic and Convocation Center, South Dome. Tickets required 
4:30 
p.m.: Graduate Division Business Administration Diploma Ceremony, Stepan Center 

4:30 
p.m.: Law School Diploma Cere­mony, Sacred Heart Church. Tickets re­quired 



Congratulations! To the Class of 1987 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Division word 5 Solo 9 Solicitude 
13 Vault 14 Peals 16 Genesis name 17 Michigan or 
Huron 18 Relax 20 Disbursed 22 Made even 23 Moderate red 26 Refugee gp. 27 Altar 28 Contributes 32 Exclamation 33 Equivocate 35 Surrealist 
painter 36 Hamlets 38 Pigeon pea 39 Inquired 40 Therefore 41 Woodland 43 Holiday time 44 Breastbone 46 Cylindrical 
and tapering 48-Aviv 49 Expire 50 Carouse 53-the hole 56 Reproach 59 Swiss river 60 Ruler 61-Dame 62 Ariz. Indian 63 Sword 64 Sign gas 65 QED word 
DOWN 1 Ailments 2 Tide 3 Grasp the 
reins 4 Household 
utensil 5 Actor Carney 6 Inlet 7 Colored tape 8 Author James 9 Certain 
shipments 10 Busy as­11 Peruse 

<>1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 5/15/87All Rights Reserved 

~
12 Wapiti .. 
15 Redeemer 19 Swiss city 21 Stumbles 24-jiffy 25 Infrequently 27 Curt 28 Take out 29 Scram 30 Student in 
Paris 31 Faction 32 Fruit drinks 34 Popeye is 
one 37 Doorway 
curtain 39 Roman rooms 41 Steamboat 
man 42 Homily: abbr. 45 Tree home 47 Get away 49 Gab 52 Eng. school 57 Hit sign 50 Inclined way 54 "My Friend -" leHers 51 Migrant 55 Shipshape 58 Stabler or 
farmer 56 Pipe joint Berry 
Earn $3,000 to $5,000 in a two month advertising internship with Campus Connections. For further information call Chris Kelsey at (805)564-1260 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Support the 

·.­
..~OWe~ ~0/l aQQ OCCO~[Otl~.H 
Come in and Browse 
3l7lincolnway .232~3354 
·­
--------------~------~-----­
Friday, May 15, 1987 -page 16
S12orts 
Gallo takes Wake posts 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame baseball coach Larry Gallo resigned this week to become an associate athletic director and assis­tant baseball coach at Wake Forest fol­lowing seven years at the Irish helm. 
At Wake Forest, Gallo will be reunited with George Greer, an old friend of his. Greer was recently named to the Demon Deacons' head slot after coaching at Davidson. Gallo has joined Greer at the Atlantic Coast Conference baseball tournament this week in Greenville, S.C. 
"Whether to leave Notre Dame was the toughest decision I've ever had to make," Gallo told the South Bend Tribune before leaving for Greenville. "Notre Dame has been good to me, and I'd like to think I've been good for baseball at Notre Dame. 
"I never planned to coach all my life, and this will give me a chance to get involved in college administration." 
Gallo finished with a record of 157­167-3 at Notre Dame. This spring's team finished with a 15-29 record, fol­lowing a 7-6, 13-inning loss to Northwes­tern. Gallo told the Tribune that this season's record had no bearing on his decision to join Greer at Wake. 
Gallo has known Greer since the two 
see GALLO, page 13 

Allen Pinkett scores with the aid of a and Boston College. Trish Sullivan Mark Bavaro block in Notre Dame's looks back on four years of heartbreaks Liberty Bowl victory over Doug Flutie 
~----­

A senior's look back on four years of Irish sports 
Like many of you, as I began reminiscing about our four years at this fine academic and athletic institution, I thought about the negatives, the hear­taches, and the losses. But the more I considered our time here, the more I began to think of these past four years as special Notre Dame moments. Let me refresh your memory: FRESHMEN YEAR 
Remeber the first game we all attended (or watched) as official Notre Dame students? It was a contest against arch rival Purdue, and the Irish soundily defeated the Boilermakers 52-6. It seemed like all those stories our fathers told us of Notre Dame football tradition were true. But alas, Dad's immortal cheers would soon die as the team took a nosedive in November and lost to Pittsburgh, Penn State, and Air Force. The Irish finished the season at 6-5 but managed to receive a bid to a post-season bowl. The team was off to the "land of Elvis" to face Boston College and future Heisman trophy winner, Doug Flutie, in the Liberty Bowl. The Irish prevailed, 19-18. 
On the hardcourt, the Irish basketball squad plowed their way through a mediocre schedule to finish 21-12 and received a bid to the National In­vitational Tournament. After wracking up four wins in a row, the team ·round itself in the "grapple for the Big Apple" against Michigan. Digger Phelps and his squad never got into their groove and the team fell, 83-63, to the Wolverines. 
ALSO'S... The men's fencing team went 19-1 on the season and fellow frosh Charles Higgs-Coulthard captured the NCAA individual foil title ... The hockey program was bumped down to the club status and finished the season at 22-6-1. 
SOPHOMORE YEAR 
Once again, our season opener in football was against Purdue. But this time we would all have to board buses at 6 a.m. to watch this home (?) contest. We all settle into our seats and await the opening 
Trish Sullivan 

Sports Writer 1983-87 

kickoff. We watch it sail through the air into the awaiting hands of the freshman returning the kick and then watch as that freshman fumbles it. That was the highlight of the game actually because it gave us the opportunity to see the sensational Tim Brown (he certainly has made up for that rookie error more than once). The Irish lost that day, 23-21', and that seemed to set the tone for the year. Every home game in October it rained and the Irish seemed to play as well as the weather, but still managed to earn their way into the Aloha Bowl against Southern Methodist. We came up short that afternoon, 27-20. 
But our spirits were uplifted slightly when bas­ketball season rolled around. During our sophomore year we witnessed the emergence of freshman David Rivers, who would go on to spark the Irish to many last minute victories -including the 63-62 win at Marquette in which Al McGuire dubbed him a "Michelangelo." Finishing the season at 20-8, Dig­ger Phelps' squad and Irish fans anxiously awaited a post-season bid after a thrilling double-overtime victory at Dayton. We hosted the tourney that year and got by Oregon State in the first round only to face a favored North Carolina team. Fate dealt a cruel blow that afternoon in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center, as the Irish lost 60-58, in the waning moments on a fluke mishap. 
ALSO'S... The volleyball program received a new head coach as Art Lambert took over the helm from long time University emolovee Sandy Vanslager. 
With Lambert's hiring, Notre Dame was showmg a renewed dedication to women's athletics and the volleyball program ... The hockey program was re­elevated to the Division I level and struggled to a 11-16-1 mark. 
JUNIOR YEAR 
And so began our saddest year in athletics. On the gridiron, our beloved team went a sorry 5-6 on the year. It started with a tough 20-12 loss to Mic­higan and didn't get much better from there. The "usual" wins against Purdue and Air Force were losses this time around. We managed to beat USC 37-3 and that always salvages things for an Irish fan, but nothing could patch up the broken spirits of Irishmen on and off the field. Before the season 
see FAUST, page 12 






