r--------------------------------·-­
Wotnen's Lib-page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1987 
the independent student newspaper sen·ing ~otre Dame and Saint '-fa11's 

Dollar 
Thatcher demands 

plunges to 
·:J deeds not wo.~ds .


new low 
Associated Press all nghts, Gorbachev said. 
They spoke at a state banquetAssociated Press 

MOSCOW -British Prime in the Grand Kremlin Palace Minister Margaret Thatcher on the third day of Thatcher'sNEW YORK -A historic challenged Soviet leader Mik­official visit. 

plunge in the dollar's value put hail Gorbachev on Monday to Thatcher pressed the West's a scare into bull markets produce deeds that match his case for arms control, starting around the world Monday as in­words about seeking better re­with elimination of medium­vestors worried about an un­lations abroad and providing range nuclear weapons from
I

restrained decline in the U.S. 
greater freedom at home. Europe and restraints on currency and the outside Thatcher took Gorbachev to shorter-range rockets. 

chance of a trade war. 
• .pt task specifically on human Her attitudes are an impor­The prices of stocks and rights and the withdrawal of tant consideration for Gorbac­bonds plunged in Tokyo, Lon­Soviet troops from Mghanis­hev because Britain has its owndon and New York in reaction ·.~"' ~­tan. nuclear arsenal and she has to the dollar's fall. The U.S. \.wJr=::-·--~~~.. r "We will reach our judg­given strong support to U.S. 

currency hit its lowest point ments not on intentions or on defense policies. 
against the Japanese yen since promises but on deeds and on Gorbachev accused the West modern exchange rates were results," she said of Western of including "a package of con­established in the late 1940s. 
leaders. ditions and demands on the So­Traders said they were Gorbachev repeated the viet Union" in proposals for anworried in part by President Kremlin position that it wants arms agreement.

Reagan's plan to impose prohi­a political solution in Mghanis­bitive tariffs on up to $300 mil­tan, where Moslem insurgents "Instead of reductions in thelion worth of Japanese havefoughtgovernmenttroops nuclear arms arsenals, Europe electronic goods to force since a communist coup in is being offered a buildup ofJapanese into compliance with April1978. An estimated 115,000 those arsenals, the deployment a trade agreement on com­Soviet soldiers now are in the of American shorter-rangeputer chips. 
country. theater missiles," he said. Gor­"It seems like the United He said the Soviets are ready bachev's reference was toStates is trying to play hardball to discuss human rights statements by U.S. officialshere, and the ramifications are ..'-(·...~ .. '. ..•~:'<.-:-.-. "openly and loudly" if the that Washington would con­quite severe," said Randy Hol­· debate includes unemploy­sider converting some

land, a foreign currency op­Jump back The Observer/ Joann Whitfield ment, homelessness and dis­medium-range missiles to
tions trader for Donaldson, Junior David Somelofske and sophomore Tim Kennedy, members crimination in the West. counter what it says is an over­Lufkin & Jenrette Securities of censored team £337, get in some practice before the official "If we're going to talk about whelming Soviet edge in short­Corp. 
start of Bookstore Basketball XVI. human rights, let's talk about range rockets.
The dollar broke through new lows steadily last week and again Monday despite the pur­

Ban on advertising enforced against bands 
chase of at least $10 billion on the open market by the central forming bands of University ting. Violations punishable by as not to incur any financialbanks of Japan and, to a lesser By KENDRA MORRILLE policies: $25 fine per article. repercussions.''
degree, the United States and News Staff -When band is playing at off­-Bands can play on Cassidy stressed that theother industrial nations. 
Fieldhouse Mall, Stepan Field, notice was informational in na­

"I think it's a very, very dan­The alleged violations of Uni­campus locations (various 
gerous situation. Nobody can versity policies by campus bars), advertising is limited to White Field, and Green Field ture. "We sent the letter to stop this movement (of tpe fal­bands has resulted in a recent the Observer, Scholastic, and after 4 p.m. Dates and times bands to inform them of 
crackdown on the enforcement WVFI. Violations punishable must be reserved and approved policies that were being
ling dollar), not even the of such policies. by $100 fine. by Student Activities Director. severely broken," he said.
Federal Reserve, market mo­Violations punishable by $100 "There is not a ban on adver­mentum is so strong," said lida Joe Cassidy, director of Stu­-When playing at campus­
dent Activities, has sent out sponsored event, flyers must fine. tising. (The bands) just have
Toshihiko, senior yen dealer for Westpac Banking Corp. notices informing bands of be approved by SAB. Violations "You have been blessed with to advertise within certain 
The dollar skidded to a low rules they must follow and the punishable by $50 fine. musical talents that you should guidelines." He said these 
be sharing with your friends policies are not new.

of 144.70 yen in Tokyo Monday penalties for breaking those -Materials posted on walls or 
on sidewalks are not permis­and fellow students," Cassidy Most band members saidbefore finishing the day at rules. 
The following is a summary sable. Bulletin boards are said in the letter. "Please abide
146.20 yen, still well below 
Friday's late rate. of the notice from Cassidy in-available in Lafortune for pos-by these minimal guidelines so see BAN, page 3 
More checkmarked courses in store 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Winucur said three-quarters That really is bad," he said. News Editor of the courses students get "It's just not right." closed out of are in the college Winicur is hopeful that the in­
In an effort to reduce the of Arts and Letters and one­creased number of check­
number of Notre Dame stu­quarter in the college of Busi­marks will reduce the number 
dents who are closed out of ness Administration. of students who are closed out 
courses after registration, "Basically, the problem is in of classes. "I think we should 
there will be an increase in the Arts and Letters, where most see a marked improvement 
number of checkmarked of the undergraduates are. this semester as compared to 
courses during next semester's Three colleges are O.K., one last semester," he said. "I 
registration, according to college is a real problem, but think students will be a lot hap­
Daniel Winicur, Dean of Ad­most of the students are in it, pier." 
ministration and and so it's really problem," "If we checkmark the 11 
Registrar. Winicur said. courses which are most over­
"What we're trying to do now In addition, three quarters of subscribed, half of the student 
is to aleviate some of the prob­the courses that get closed out close-outs would be 
lems of the students by selec­are in just five departments; eliminated," said Winicur. 
tively checkmarking those Finance, History, American "We're not doing it at ran­
courses that we know are going Studies, English and Philoso­dom, we're actually trying to 
to cause trouble," he said. phy, he said. pinpoint the ones that are going 
"We have data now for the "To me, its criminal to make to cause trouble," he said. "It's 
first time so we know which a student wait six weeks to find 
courses are over-subscribed." out what courses they have. see CHECKMARK ,page 4 






Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 2 


Of Interest 
A series ofShakespeare movies will begin tonight at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The first film will be Franco Zeffirelli's classic version of "Romeo and Juliet." Admission is free and all are welcome. -The Ob­server 
Emergency room internship information meet­ing for students interested in a unique experience next year at a local hospital emergency room will be held to­morrow at 7 p.m. in Room 104 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
-The Observer 
SMC Hall Elections: There will be mandatory meetings tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. on 3rd floor Haggar College Center for all those interested in running for hall office for 1987-88. All four members of each ticket must be present at one of the two meetings. -The Observer 
BACCHUS will sponsor two awareness programs tonight. The first will be a lecture and discussion with Dr. Steve Nelson, Director of Student Activities at Dartmouth College. The topic will be a different perspective on the alcohol policy, and will take place at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor Lafortune. The second event will be a drinking demonstration at 10 p.m. in the Grace Hall Pit. It will provide first hand experience with Indiana law and field sobriety tests. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Charity Ball dorm representatives must pick up very important information today from 3-5: 30 in 243 Badin. 
-The Observer 
The University Counseling Center is sponsoring a 2-part workshop on date rape. The workshop, entitled "When Date Becomes Rape," is designed for both men and women. A film will be shown, followed by a discussion. The workshop is tonight at 6:30 in 117 Haggar. -The Ob­server 
The Justice Education Panel of Saint Mary's will host the panel discussion "Responses Through Individual Groups to Systemic Injustice Within the Criminal Justice Organization," tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The program is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Department of Justice Education. -The Observer 
Seniors interested in volunteer service after gradua­tion may meet with Fr. Cal DeLeviel of the Glenmary Home Missionaries in the Library Concourse today from 9 a.m.-2 p.m. and at the Center for Social Concerns from 2-5 p.m. -The Observer 
A Simple Meal of soup, rice, bread and salad will be served this evening in lines B, C, and F of the North Dining Hall and on the west side of the South Dining Hall. All students are invited to make the sacrifice and experi­ence how two-thirds of the world live. This event is spon­sored by the NDSMC Charity Ball Committee. -The Ob­server 
"Careers in Commercial Banking" is the title of a lecture to be given by the Northern trust Company in Chicago tonight at 7 p.m. in 124 Hays-Healy. The lecture is sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. 
-The Observer 
Weather 
Hey, baby, it's cold outside! Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of snowshowers. Windy and cold with highs in the mid 30s. Clearing and cold tonight. Low around 20. Partly sunny and not as cold Wednesday. High around 40. 

Design Editor .................. Kathy Huston Design Assistant .......... Eileen Lawrence Typesetters ........................... Jose Novas .......................................... Michael Buc News Editor.... .. ......... Chris Julka Copy Editor ................ Diane Schroeder Sports Copy Editor ... ..... Rick Rietbrock Viewpoint Copy Editor . .... Julie Collinge 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Layout ............. Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ............. Tom Beatty Accent Layout .. .. .. .. .. .. . Melinda Murphy Typists........ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .... Patti Tripathi Ad Design.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Sharon Emmite Photographer .... Joann Whitfield 
I 
To censor Bookstore tourney is to go way out of bounds 

Well, well, well. Another case of censorship. 
The Bookstore Basketball tournament names have been of questionable taste for a long time. Most students (except the freshmen who will only see this year's censored version) can recall a few of the juicier ones. 
And, God forbid, some of the names actually referred to various sexual acts. I'm surprised they haven't expelled half the campus for laugh­ing at them in past years. 
I have to admit that some of the names have been pretty gross. Having read an uncensored version of this year's names, I can see some more sensitive individuals being offended by the names. The raunchy names were, perhaps, indicative of a lower intelligence level than that expected at Notre Dame. 
But no one said you had to read the schedules. 
I can just see certain officials saying "we don't have to see pornography either, but that doesn't mean we should allow it to exist." This is true; pornography exploits individuals and should be eradicated. Does Bookstore exploit people? Not the last time I looked. 
Besides, the Bookstore schedule isn't handed out to the general public. If you're not on a team, you aren't given one. 
Yes, some people are treated less than kindly by Bookstore names. But students crack jokes about public figures anyway, and non-public backstabbing is not permitted by the Bookstore staff. 
Student Activities does not fund Bookstore at all. As a matter of fact, all those $5 entry fees cover the costs of the tournament quite nicely. Leftover money is given to An Tostal, and, ul­timately, back to .the students who spent it in the first place. 
It would seem, then, that Student Activities has no real reason to censor Bookstore team names. Bookstore is not public, nor is it con­nected financially to the University. 
The rather cheap trick of handing the schedule back to a "student committee, ul­timately working in agreement with the Office of Student Activities" was simply a ploy to fool the students into thinking that some construc­tive non-censorship was taking place. Baloney. The powers-that-be censored the schedule the minute they decided the names were 'unfit for publishing.' 
Seems like if the people at Student Activities were so sure they were right, they would have done the dirty work themselves. 
Du Lac is rather unclear on the whole cen­sorship issue. It states: 
... The Universitv of Notre Dame 
~ing
Advice . : 
cansa.~e
...
alife /.,. . 
Position available for 
SAB ASSISTANT CONTROLLER 
Please contact Jeff at 3242 ASAP. 
Positions available for publicity & disbursements controls 
Ill-ALUMNI SENIOR
:z: 
1­
Applicationsfor the 1987-88 staff are available in the Student Activities Office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
The deadline for all applications is April 8th. 
Mark Mclaughlin 
Projects Manager 

should not prohibit the orderly distribution of student literature on campus except that which could be reasonably construed to be in violation of the law. The legality will be determined by a tripartite board with legal counsel. 
Unless Joe Cassidy and Father Rocca and Adele Lanan have law degrees that I don't know about, it sounds like the Notre Dame adminis­tration does not practice what it preaches. 
And if they won't stop Student Activities from imposing its moral standards on a Bookstore tournament that wasn't offending anyone who didn't ask to be offended, then there isn't a whole lot anybody else can do about it. 
Now WVFI, Juggler, and Scholastic have all felt the wrath of Student Activities. I can think of one other major group that has been spared. The newspaper you're reading. Is it <mly a mat­ter of time? 
I hope that doesn't happen, because I for one think that a student voice on campus is a good thing and benefits both the students and the University. 
For all the Bookstore staff members who have spent long weekends arranging schedules, calling teams, and finally, having to cut the names they had just approved, my condolences. But then again, we're all in the same boat. 
Looks like the ball is in Student Activities' court. 


The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 3 
Ban 
continuedfrom page 1 
they have not received notices, however, and this has caused a great amount of confusion as well as a rumour that there is a complete ban on campus ad­vertising. 
Paul Loughridge of The Law said he first found out about the supposed ban on advertising when he read Mary Jacoby's article on the ban that ap­peared in The Observer last week. Loughridge claims never to have received official notice. He said he had already printed flyers for The Law's next appearance and thought about putting them up, since he was never officially informed of anything. 
Loughridge said he was not sure of the reason for the ban. "Somebody said it's because we're drawing an underage group to the bars," he said. "That's not true. My friends don't go because they're un­derage." 
Loughridge said the greatest effect of the ban will be the need for bands to advertise 
elsewhere, such as The Obser­ver or WVFI. He feels that WVFI would not reach a large enough audience and that The Observer is too expensive. Since they are already fairly well established, the ban will not hurt The Law as much as it will the lesser known or new bands, said Loughridge. "What are they going to do -the bands just starting? They usually don't get paid at first so how will they get the money (for other forms of advertising)?" One of these newer bands is Blind River. Mark Van Etten, their drummer, said he received a notice in the mail one and a half weeks ago in­forming him of the rules campus bands must follow. He said he was not aware of the rules before he received the notice. "Bands can't afford newspapers, so most bands won't be advertising," said 
first year of existence, has only advertised by using flyers. 
Possibly the clearest illustra­tion of the confusion resulting from the alleged ban is the story of how the band Bottom Line learned about the Univer­sity policies concerning bands. 
Matt McGlinn of Bottom Line said they posted signs advertis­ing drink specials at the club where they were playing. Jim Lies, assistant director of residence life, told McGlinn that the signs were a violation of DuLac--signs cannot adver­tise alcohol and must be ap­proved by the SAB. McGlinn had 200 more posters printed saying "Chips presents Bottom Line ... ID Required." The SAB would not approve these because they mentioned a bar, and Bottom Line lost $25 due to printing costs. McGlinn then received the letter he should have received earlier in the mail. 
Cassidy insisted that, con­trary to what many believe, the University is not trying to 


Van Etten. Blind River, in it:--charge bands extra money by 
§~·.q...Q>o.&r·~~·.Q>·-b>~~~·Q>·~§ forcing them to pay more for 
' NO AVE APTS. 
Early Bird Special Now renting for Fall 2 Bedroom completely 
§furnishedt Sign up before break and receive a 
~  10 percent discount  
~  Call 234-6647  
~  Protected by Pinkerton Security  
~  Agency  

Iadvertising. He said that he saw an effective form of band 
advertising while working at 
~ ~ 
~ 
J 
another university. That uni­versity's newspaper had a spe­cial column called "Upbeat" that announced where and when all campus bands were playing each week. 
When told of the frustration among band members who said they had never been in­formed of the policies and could have been fined for unknow­ingly violating University 
policy, Cassidy replied that his office is not aware of all campus bands. 
~.Q-~·~·~<Q>~~·.Q><Q'> 

The Observer/ Joann Whitfield 
Sign here 
Senior Gwen Taddonio explains the procedure as Paul Kolecki signs up for his senior portraits. 
Student chosen as finalist in college photo competition 
By DEIRDRE FINN 
News Staff 
Senior Michele Chlebek, an art major at Saint Mary's Col­lege, was chosen as a finalist in the seventh annual college photography contest. 
Finalists of the contest, spon­sored by Photographers Forum magazine, represent the top eight percent of the entries from students through­out the United States and Canada. Though she was nominated into this group, did not receive any monetary awards through the final selec­tion process. 
Michele said she learned of the contest from her professor, Douglas Tyler, while taking a photography class last fall. She entered an abstract, black-and­white photograph that had been a class assignment. 
"I didn't take it seriously," she said. "I just entered for the fun of it." 
In the future, Michele said she hopes to enter more of her photographs in other contests. 




Are you Interested In helping to manage and account for $385,000? 
If you are a SOPHOMORE business major who enjoys working with money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. 
-Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body 
Treasurer in disbursing funds for: Student Government SAB Halls Clubs and organizations 
This is in preparation for your becoming THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER the following year. 
-Applications are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 12-4:30. Due on Tuesday, April 7th by 4:30 pm. 
-Any questions, contact Chris Grandpre at 239-7417. 

The Observer Is accepting applications tor the following paid positions: 
Typists 
Questions should be directed to Jim Winkler at the Observer of­fice (239-5313). 
Arts & Letters presents  
March31 ROMEO & JULIET director Franco Zeffirelli Aprll6 THRONE OF BLOOD (Japanese Macbeth) director Akira Kurosawa Aprll13 A MIDSUMMER'S NIGHT DREAM Royal Shakespeare Company Royal Shakespeare Company Aprll27 KING LEAR director Peter Brook  
IYO ADMISSIOIY 7:00 pm Engineering Auditorium  



------------~----­

-----------------------~--~---­
The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 4 
student problems, said 
Winicur, who calls the current procedure a "bad system." 
Checkmark Session on broken families offered 
continuedfrom page 1 
"The only real solution lies sometimes very difficult to in the creation of an on-line By SANDY CERIMELE lishing a regular support group particular awareness of know which ones are really the computer system for registra­Staff Reporter for students from such relationships and family living very popular courses," he said. tion," he said. families. She has a specific con­harbored in student life. 
Although there will be more The Administration is com­Saint Mary's and Notre cern for adult children who ex­According to Benedict, the checkmarked courses this mittted to a new computer sys­Dame students coping with the perience divorce because of the discussion group will help the semster, Winicur said the num­tem and the conceptual design stress of living as adult serious psychological affects students put their experience in ber is "not anywhere near what for a new system has been com­daughters and sons of divorced that result from the sudden proper perspective. "Someone it was a year or so ago." pleted, said Winicur. "The parents will share their expe­split of a family unit. may be walking around with Winicur said he is also Provost has made this a high riences in an informal discus­"It is traumatic for them as the notion that the whole world working with department priority," he added. sion Wednesday night. adults because it causes them is married and happy when heads on classes in which stu­The proposed system would The discussion, sponsored by to be very concerned about es­that is simply not true and can dents were closed out, but more be integrated with all the of­Saint Mary's Campus Mini­tablishing and maintaing be a very alienating experi­students could have been fices that handle students; fin­stry, will be guided by Linda relationships of their own," ence," she said. According to added, without changing the ancial aid, housing, student ac­Benedict, a student at Indiana said Benedict. Benedict, the discussion will of­nature of the course or impos­counts, student records, University of South Bend, at 7 Another reason she is con­fer diverse religious perspec­ing an additional burden on the everything that has to do with p.m. in 162 Regina Hall of Saint cerned for these children is be­tives. Father Tom Stella of instructor. students, he said. Mary's. cause they often undertake re­Saint Mary's Campus Ministry "I have asked for help from Winicur said he hopes the Benedict is coordinator of sponsibilities for which they will represent the Catholic per­the (department) chairmen system can be fully operational Divorce Ministry at Little are not prepared. She said the spective. Benedict will share when reviewing the prioritized in about two years. "I think we Flower Church in South Bend children often feel stuck in the her experiences as an atheist class lists and this, together can have elements of it in place and is active in several organ­middle and sharing those who converted to Catholicism with the selective checkmark­in a year and a half and the izations committed to support feelings offers alternative ap­in the process of her divorce. ing, should eliminate most of whole system in two years," he for divorced families in the proaches to their situations. Another woman will represent the difficulties faced by stu­said. area. She has concentrated her ef­the avid Catholic family con­dents," he said. Even with a new computer Her objective for the discus­forts on the establishment of a fronted with the pain of separa­
Increasing the number of system, Winicur said Notre sion is to spur interest in estab-campus group because of the tion and conflict of faith. checkmark courses, however, Dame will always need some is only a short-term solution to sort of checkmark policy. 
Business contest results to be announced soon 
By SEAN S. HICKEY besides Notre Dame are Illi­Senior Staff Reporter 
nois, Missouri, Ohio State, and Penn State. Winners in the past 
The results of the sixth an­were Notre Dame in 1982 and nual MBA · Invitational Case and 1983, Ohio State in 1984, Competition currently under­Vanderbilt in 1985, and Ohio· way at Notre Dame will be State in 1986. revealed at an awards dinner at the conclusion of the compe­"All the universities compet­tition tonight. ing have very good MBA pro­
"The basic guidelines of the grams," pointed out Reilly. competition," said Perry Del­"The judges will make their lelce, President of the Student decisions based on a team's MBA Association, "are that strategy, analysis, and most each team is provided with the importantly the overall quality basic necessities for preparing of the presentation." 
a case in corporate strategy­pads, paper and microcom­puters. Also each team is given 24 hours to prepare for their presentation, with no outside help allowed except the re­search facilities of the li­brary." 
Representing Notre Dame this year are Thomas Cranley, Cristian Hohlberg and Antonio Tocornal. The team was selec­ted by a panel of five profes­sorss in the college of business administration in the intra­college MBA casecompetition last February. 
"Right now we're consider­ing different alternatives in the case ... .It is a very complex one," said Cristian 
Team presentations, slated to be 50 minutes apiece, are taking place today in the Cen­ter for Continuing Education from 10:10-12:00 a.m., 1:10­3:00p.m., and 3:40-4:30 p.m. The presentations are open to the public. 
The competition is "being co­sponsored by the Notre Dame College of Business Adminis­tration and Johnson and Johnson," said Frank Reilly, Dean of the Business College. 
Reillysaid Notre Dame decided to sponsor the compe­tition because "we had had some MBA Students who were involved in a case competition. It was an enriching exper­ience for students developing, presenting and defending a case while competing with other MBA students from around the country." 
Reilly added, "It gives our students the chance to meet other MBA students and en­hances our reputation with other schools." 
"Other universities compet­ing in the competition this year 

Sponsored by Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering University of Notre Dame 




The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 5 
'Great Hunger Cleanup' cotning 
By ERIC HOLLAWAY News Staff 
The Great Hunger Cleanup to take place in South Bend on Saturday, Apr. 11. will involve several campus organizations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The Great Hunger Cleanup is a project whereby college students pledge to clean up their com­munity and donate the money gathered to fight hunger. 
USA for Africa is organiz­ing the nationwide event in 61 cities. The Overseas De­velopment Network, the World Hunger Coalition and the Social Action Club of Saint Mary's are the groups responsible for implement­ing the event in the South Bend area. 
"Many students feel they have no time to get involved with long term service proj­ects. The Great Hunger Cleanup is only one day and is perfect for them," said Sophia Twarog, former chairwoman of the Overseas Development Network. 
The cleanup has three goals, according to Twarog. The first is to actively in­volve students in fighting the problem of hunger. The second goal is to enhance re­lations between the commu­nity and Notre Dame. 
The final and most impor­tant goal is to raise money to help eliminate hunger in South Bend and in foreign countries. 
University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh commented, "I think this campus needs a wide vari­ety of activities so that all the students will have out­lets for their good will and their generosity." 
Pledges are being gath­ered from individual and corporate sources. Student volunteers will receive a pledge card on which other students will pledge a cer­tain amount for each hour worked. The event will last approximately three hours and will include tasks such as painting, yardwork or any type of cleanup job. 
The proceeds will be divided so that half stays in the community for soup­kitchens and food pantries, and the other half goes to agricultural development projects in the Third World. 
The Mayor's office and the Northeast Neighborhood as­sociation are helping the <;:ause by supplying part of the material and coordinat­ing work sites in the north­east neighborhood. 
Volunteers will be working at several areas including Dismas House, Bendix Woods and the United Way. 
Area companies have donated prizes and money. Dinners at area restaraunts and gift certificates will be awarded to individuals, teams of ten and dorms based on the amount of pledges received. The grand prize is a free airline ticket anywhere in the United States, donated by Execu­tive Travel Inc. 
U.S. embassy guards replaced as precaution 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Marine Corps, cooperating with the State Department, said Mon­day it has agreed to replace all 28 security guards at the U.S. embassy in Moscow with other Marines as a special precau­tion. 
The move follows the dis­closure that two former guards are suspected of repeatedly al­lowing Soviet agents in the em­bassy late at night in what has been called a critical breach of security. 
Meanwhile, Pentagon sources said Cpl. Arnold Bracy, one of the former guards suspected of espionage, was reduced in rank from ser­geant for fraternization with a woman while in Moscow. 
The sources, who asked not to be named, previously dis­closed both Bracy and Sgt. Clayton Lonetree became in­volved with Soviet women who worked at the embassy. 
The sources said Bracy's re­duction in rank came last Au­gust, but it did not attract any special attention until inves­tigators began probing Lonetree's activities earlier this year. 
The Marine Corps stressed none of the guards currently posted in Moscow is suspected of wrongdoing. But it said in a joint statement with the State Department it would replace all guards sometime in April. 
"This measure is precaution­ary in nature and is intended to facilitate an investigation of the security program at the 
U.S. Embassy," the statement added. 
State Department spokes­woman Phyllis Oakley said the men withdrawn from Moscow would eventually be trans­ferred to guard duties at other embassies. She said she knew of no plans for special screen­ing or training for the Marines who would replace the guards now in Moscow. 
The Marine Corps said the guards would be transferred to the headquarters of their par­ent command at the Marine base at Quantico, Va. 

WHEN IS THE RIGHT TIME TO CALL YOUR PARENTS? 
a) 
When you're stuck in your room because someone "pennied" your door. 

b) 
When you spent all your money playing video games and you still have to buy books for Developmental Psych. 

c) 
When you iust miss hearing their voices and telling them what you've been doing. 


One thing about parents: they love to hear what you've been up to. But you should call them anyway. And when they ask where you were last night, tell them that you 
always call using AT&T Long Distance Service because of AT&T's high quality service and exceptional value. 
When they ask how your stud­ies are going, remind them that AT&T gives you immediate credit if you dial a wrong number. 
And when they ask about your plans for the weekend, note that you can count on AT&T for clear long distance connections. 
,.......,. .. And when, at last, they praise you for using AT&T, then-and only then-you might want to mention those 

~ Psych books. 
~ 
(. ~: j 
'--"' 

AT&T 
The right choice. 
Carter serves as new envoy in Mideast 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former 
President Jimmy Carter will 
report to Secretary of State 
George Shultz on his five­
nation Middle East trip Friday 
as the Reagan administration 
steps up its diplomacy in the 
region. 
Carter held nine hours of 
talks with Syrian President 
Hafez Assad, with whom the 
administration is barely in 
touch, and held talks also in Is­
rael, Egypt, Jordan and Al­
geria. 
The former president said Sunday on NBC-TV's ''Meet the Press" that Assad had con­vinced him he knew nothing about the location of eight Americans held hostage in Lebanon by terrorists. 
But Carter also said Assad "is now expressing for the first time his willingness to partici­pate in an international confer­ence to recognize Israel by direct negotiations with them." 
The administration downgraded its diplomatic and business contacts with Syria last November after conclud­ing that the Assad government sponsored terro!'ism against Americans abroad. 
As a result, State Depart­ment officials are eager to hear about Assad's views from Carter. His meeting with Shultz was disclosed by Melissa Montgomery, the former pres­ident's press assistant. 
Next week, two senior Jor­danian officials will hold talks with Shultz on prospects for negotiations with Israel. 
The visit of Prime Minister Zayd Rifai and Foreign Mini­ster Tahir Masri on Monday and Tuesday marks stepped-up 
U.S. interest in having the negotiations held in the context of a Mideast peace conference. 
They will also discuss with Shultz a growing program of economic aid for the 1 million Palestinian Arabs who live on the West Bank of the Jordan River. 



--------~~ ~---­

-------~----------~~---·--~--------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 6 
Children come first for Baby M trial judge 
Associated Press trial attracted. He turned down all interview requests, and his 
HACKENSACK, N.J. staff was told to do the same. Children come first in Judge He attended Washington Uni­Harvey Sorkow's court, and versity in St. Louis as an un­there has been no exception to dergraduate and received his the rule in the landmark case law degree from Rutgers. of a year-old girl born under a Before serving in family court, surrogate contract. he was a municipal judge for 
"May I remind you all, this several northern New Jersey is a hearing for the best interest communities. of the child," the bespectacled On the bench, while taking Superior Court jurist told attor­copious notes on yellow legal neys in the widely publicized pads, Sorkow runs a no­and highly emotional dispute. nonsense court and becomes 
With little or no legal angry when attorneys stumble guidelines to follow, Sorkow toward a legal point or question will rule Tuesday on who his memory. He can read his should have custody of the notes back with the accuracy chubby blonde girl known as of a court reporter. Baby M and will set a prece­"Judge Sorkow feels very dent that could affect surrogate strongly about the best interest parenting nationwide. of the child being preeminent,'' 
"I believe this decision is like said Alan Lippel, who has
AP Photo

Contras riding into action 
the first speaker in a debate," argued cases in Sorkow's

Contra activity appears to have increased since from bases in Honduras since December. The 
said Peter Simmons, dean of court. "In a way, what the

the resumption of U.S. military aid last fall. authenticity of this and other photos could not 
the Rutgers University law court is doing is playing the

The administration maintains that thousands be verified independently. 
school. role of surrogate mother."

of Contras have reinf'dtrated into Nicaragua 
Baby M was born on Marc.h To ensure that Baby M-­27, 1986, after Mary Beth called Sara by Whitehead and Whitehead agreed to be artifi­Melissa by the Sterns--was cially inseminated with treatly fairly, Sorkow ap­William Stern's sperm and pointed a guardian, attorney Associated Press gas known as VX. Mustard gas Mter years of study, the bear him and his wife a child Lorraine Abraham, who 
attacks the lungs, while nerve Army last year proposed for $10,000. argued on the child's behalf. 
WASHINGTON -The Army gases attack the central ner­destroying the stockpile by bur­Mrs. Whitehead changed her She suggested the Sterns be says it will cost as much as $2.8 vous system after being ab­ning the weapons at the eight mind about giving up the child, given custody and that billion to destroy thousands of sorbed through the skin. U.S. sites, saying that method and Stern and his wife, Whitehead be denied visitation tons of aging and obsolete There are a variety of U.S. was preferable to transporting Elizabeth, sued for custody. rights for at least five years. chemical weapons, a program weapons, rockets, artillery them to one or two large in­As the assignment judge for In addition to the custody ordered by Congress as part of shells, mortar shells, bombs cineration sites. family court in Bergen County, decision, Sorkow must also the long-running fight over and spray tanks. In addition, But the plan ran into local op­Sorkow often takes on the toug­decide whether the contract be­whether to build new U.S. gas some of the chemicals are position, particularly in Hop­hest cases himself. He arrives tween Whitehead and the 
weapons. stored in bulk containers. kins' district, where residents at the courthouse at about 8:30 Sterns is valid. After closing The latest cost figu1·es were When the chemical arsenal claimed it was too dangerous. a.m., long before other judges arguments, he told the attor­sent to Congress last week as was created, there were few Congress responded by order­or attorneys, and often is the neys, "Your presentations the House Armed Services concerns about how to get rid ing another study of more op­last to leave. served to further crystalize for Committee prepared to begin of it during a time when toxic tions looking at the safest, An avid photographer, the court its awesome burden.'' writing a Pentagon budget for leaks were little cause for con­cheapest way to destroy the Sorkow, 57, lives in Bergenfield Sorkow was not afraid to let the fiscal year starting Oct 1. cern. weapons without the pressure with his wife, Pearl. He is a his feelings known. He would One change that could be "When this stuff was first of the 1994 deadline. private man who has worked not tolerate lawyers who 
Neutralizing war chemicals costly 
In response, the Army sent

made is the current 1994 dead­made, if you'd ask the Army to keep himself isolated from argued for their clients rather
that report to Capitol Hill last

line set by Congress last fall for how they would destroy it, I the worldwide attention the than Baby M.
week.

the Army to dispose of all the think they would have said 
weapons. The service admits it bury it," Soucy said. 
will have a difficult time The weapons are stored at meeting that target, and Rep. eight Army sites in the contin­Larry Hopkins, R-Ky., a mem­tental United States, along with ber of the committee, plans to another on Johnston Atoll, a offer an amendment eliminat­deserted Pacific island south of ing the deadline. Hawaii. The U.S. storage sites 
Hopkins represents a district are Anniston, Ala.; Aberdeen, that includes one of the eight Md.; Lexington, Ky.; Newport, sites in the continental United Ind.; Pine Bluff, Ark.; Pueblo, States where the Army keeps Colo.; Umatilla, Ore.; and its stockpile of chemical weap­Tooele, Utah. ons, some of which date back Scientific studies have shown to World War II. the best way to destroy chemi­
No American chemical cal weapons is burning them in weapons have been built since a closed container, according 1969, when President Nixon or­to Soucy, and three different in­dered a halt to the program. cineration plans are under con­But when President Reagan sideration. took office six years ago, he Other destruction methods sought to restart the U.S. all have drawbacks, he noted. chemical production because For example, chemical he said it was needed to offset neutralization by mixing the a growing Soviet gas arsenal. agents "is not that easy. In all 
Congress, after a long and of these chemicals, especially controversial fight, finally ap­the ones that are really aging, 
April 1-5

proved his request two years there are impurities and it is ago, but also decided to elimi­the purity of the chemicals 
Cable
WEDNESDAY 11:30AM 

nate the current stockpile fol­which drives a reaction to com­Television's
THURSDAY 2:30PM

lowing reports the weapons pletion to neutralize them," he Premier. 
and 9:30PM Educational

were aging, obsolete and some­said. 
Channel!

times dangerous. In addition, chemical SATURDAY 2:30PM According to Army spokes­neutralization is inefficient be­SUNDAY 11:00PM Produced and Distributed by MEDIA PEOPLE. INC. man Phil Soucy, the service cause it would produce large 
Special Appearances on

has thousands of tons of gas amounts of "hazardous wastes 
Heritage Cablevision-Mishawaka Channel 31

weapons. The exact amount is that still would have to be dis­classified, though published es­posed of," he said. 
WEDNESDAY April 1 11 :30AM SATURDAY April 4 2:30PM 

timates have put it at about The service has built a test 
THURSDAY April 2 2:30PM & 9:30PM SUNDAY April 5 11 :OOPM 

30,000 tons. The Army says it incinerator at Tooele, a rela­will cost between $2 billion and tively deserted spot south of $2.8 billion to destroy the stock­Salt Lake City that houses 40 piles. percent of the U.S. stockpile. 
The U.S. arsenal basically There have some minor leaks has three types of chemicals : from the inner chamber, but mustard gas, which first was none into the atmosphere. An­used during World War I; the other, and much larger, in­short-lived nerve agent GB; cinerator is under construction and the longer-lasting nerve on Johnston Atoll. 

---~----~-----------------~----­
\TieVV~_O_i_n_t_____________
Tues-day,M-arch-31,1-987-p-age7 

Quality of grad program depends on faculty 
I have encountered a profound over­sight which needs to be addressed if the Notre Dame reputation is to continue to flourish in the Malloy era. 
Christopher Ryan 
guest column 
Now that Notre Dame is at a sensitive juncture in her evolution, there is a problem that needs to be addressed if all of the work done in the Hesburgh era is not to be considered in vain. I worry about Notre Dame's accomplish­ments and her plans for the future. 
Specifically, I am concerned with the administration's key objectives: main­taining fine undergraduate education and developing a respected graduate program and research faculty. These goals are mandated by the trustees and alumni. 
By instituting a graduate program, Notre Dame has taken on a complex responsibility. Its objective is to administer a graduate program of scholarship and research the equal of its already excellent undergraduate program. 
"We are not in the top 10 and we never will be -but that's not our goal." (Robert Gordon, Notre Dame Vice President for advanced studies, quoted in the Notre Dame Magazine", October 1983, p.4) 
How does Notre Dame fare as the Hesburgh era comes to a close? On some measures -endowment, alumni giving, faculty pay, rating of the under­graduate program -we are doing very well. As an undergraduate college Notre Dame has achieved Sorin's goal of becoming a great American Catholic university. But its graduate program and its faculty are not living up to Sorin's dream. 
As an undergraduate college, Notre Dame was ranked "Most Competitive" -the highest rating by "Barron's Guide to the Most Prestigious Colleges" (New York, 1984). Only 26 other schools were in this category. 
As for endowment, Notre Dame now ranks 18th in the nation. Alumni giving is at record levels. Cash gifts in 1986 totaled $48.3 million, a record and 43% greater than 1985's $33.8 million, which was also a record. 
Faculty pay has also risen greatly. Full professors receive pay that is bet­ter than that of all but about 30 univer­sities, according to a 1985 "Notre Dame Record." 
Our physical plant keeps improving, with a new graduate women's residence soon to be built. Last year Notre Dame had 2 Rhodes Scholars, ranking us in the top 5 nationally. 
So, with a strong undergraduate body and strong financial resources we might expect the graduate school and faculty to be highly ranked as well. They are not. 
The faculty is ranked highly only in its compensation. It does not produce new knowledge at anywhere near the rate at which it gets support from the alumni. The graduate students do not go on to teach at the best universities. 
In 1982 the National Assessment of Research and Doctoral Programs gave Notre Dame poor marks. The response of Notre Dame's administration to this? 'We are not in the top 10 and we never will be -but that's not our goal.' 
What then is our goal? To have an overpaid, mediocre faculty forever? 
Consider a recent rating of Econom­ics faculties. In 1984 the "American Economic Review published an article (vol. 74 no. 4 pp. 822-26) which ranked schools on the basis of their publishing output. This ranking, then, did not depend on opinion, only on what was actually produced in 4leading Econom­ics journals. The jounals were the "American Economic Review, the Journal of Political Economy", the "Quarterly Journal of Economics, " and "Econometrica". Articles pub­lished during 1978-1983 were included. 
How did Notre Dame rank? In the top 27, as our undergraduates ranked? No. In the top 31, as our professors' pay ranks? No. In the top 50? No. Top 100? No. Notre Dame ranked 121st. A school with an endowment in the top 20 ranked below 21 schools without doctoral pro­grams. It ranked below all the Big Ten schools. It ranked below all the Pac Ten schools. It was not even the best Cath­olic school. It was outranked by Boston College (59), Washington University at St. Louis (85) and Georgetown (90). 
Why has the Notre Dame faculty per­formed so poorly? In part, it is because they have been rewarded for seniority, not for publishing new ideas. In part, there is a group mentality which does not believe in excellence -such as Mr. Gordon. 
It is relatively easy to have a highly paid faculty, if you have generous, sup­portive alumni. That Notre Dame cer­tainly has had. What we have not had is critical scrutiny of what we've been getting for our money. 
We do not now have a faculty worthy of its alumni, worthy of its undergradu­ates, worthy of its pay. We will not have the faculty we have paid so much for until we get rid of the deadwood. 
We need deans who will monitor and, yes, shake up their departments to let them know that mediocrity is not enough. We need administrators who will not give pay raises based on seniority, but on production. We need early retirement plans. We need pro­fessors who believe that they can be ­and should be -both first rate teachers and scholars. And we need a Vice Pres­ident of advanced studies who will say and believe Notre Dame is not yet in the top 10, but it soon will be-and that's our goal. 
Christopher J. Ryan is a 1978 graduate ofNotre Dame and is currently the Vice President of Forbes Information Ser­vices, Inc. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Beer cans and swearing are out of place here 
Dear Editor: 
Vocal adolescent showboating should be left in high school. And some Notre Dame students cannot hold their beer -not when they throw their beer cans on the ground of the University. How any student can walk by a beer can and not pick it up amazes me. I grant you that it gets tiring and, after awhile, I quit too. But if everybody just picked up one can ... 
Back to vocal adolescent showboat­ing. Swearing and foul language can be a terribly bad habit, indicative of a lack of civility and plethora of ignorance. Such is not genuine communication in that it neither clarifies an issue nor solves any problem. It does communi­cate a level of excitement, "look at me," and attention, as well as deficient education, at least in terms of clever if not erudite vocabulary. 
This phenomenon on campus of swearing and beer cans is not only bad manners and impropriety but, at its es­sence, it is basically uncharitable. 
Get out your thesauri before the sit­uation becomes sterquilinous. 
Samuel Nigro, M.D. Class of 1958 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, NotFe Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Quote of the day 
"Perhaps love is like a resting place, a shelter from the storm. It exists to give you comfort, it is there to keep you warm. And in those times of trouble, when you are most alone-the memory of love will bring you home." 
John Denver "Perhaps Love, "1980 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton News Editor ...................................... Chrls Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Alley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chrls Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Spot1s Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schlndele Saint Mary's Editor ..........................Marilyn Benchik Graphic At1s Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
Founded November3, 1968 


-~-----------~.--~ ---~ -~­
Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 8 

Accent 

At the beep.•• 
Answering machines are common items in campus rooms 
H
KENDRA MORRILL esting to compile a collection Someone finally returned all features writer of the strangest ancVor funniest the messages I left. Chris, a messages and to speak to the senior band member from Holy ow do you say 'OK' to an people who own the machines. Cross Hall, recorded his mes­answering machine? ... You know ... Why do they sage to the tune of Beethoven's How do you say 'I miss you' to have answering machines? Fifth Symphony in C minor. an answering machine? How Where do they get ideas for The lyrics are obviously sec­do you say 'Good night' to an messages? How do people ondary to Beethoven but are as answering machine? How do react to their messages? Etc. you say 'I'm lonely' to an I can answer the first ques­
How does Chris get ideas for messages? "It just happens when I eat green jello and don't get enough sleep," he said. 
Two roommates, A and B, recorded their message to a somewhat less classic (but sad­ly, probably more well known) tune. We all know the theme song to "The Beverly Hil­lbillies," right? Well, put these words to that music. "Listen to said A. "We kinda make it up lying in bed together, listening to reggae." I think he was kid­ding. (Note: I had to use fic­tional initials because B's Mom gets The Observer at home.) 
Four Dillon roommates related how they were buzzed one Saturday night and came up with the following message: "You just called but we ain't here. We're probably out drink­ing lots of beer. So either hang up or leave a message." 
They have a unique and effi­

answering machine? The mes­tion myself from experience. 
cient use for their machine sage is very plain. Oh, I hate These people do not live in other than taking telephone your answering machine .... their rooms. The machines are messages. If they are going ("Answering Machine"--The always home, but their owners out and have to leave one of Replacements) rarely are (hence, the reason the roommates a message, 
Do you ever talk to your for my catching up on leaving they record it on the answering toaster oven, stereo, or messages). machine instead of writing a refrigerator? Neither do I. Why note. A light flashes, indicating talk to something I know can­Gertie, a Saint Mary's stu­there is a message. "Amazing not hear me, cannot answer dent. has left a new message but true," one said. me, and would care less (if it every time I've called. First. I'm sure there are others out could care at all) about what I there was a little poem that there, not mentioned here, who had to say? Which brings us to went something like this: "Be it also have especially weird, ob­the subject of answering mac­a kind of madness to be living noxious, or funny messages on hines, those annoying little by a code of silence; if you their answering machines. mechanisms that beep and really have a lot to say thanks Maybe all of you whom I have sound like people we know and be jay. Beep." She then left a not included could send in try to make rational humans comparatively plain message your phone numbers and mes­
converse with inanimate ob­jects. 
Until this week. I mildly dis­liked answering machines and rarely left messages on them. Now, after leaving enough mes­sages in a few days to more than sufficiently make up for not having left any before, I firmly detest those machines. 
Many people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have answer­ing machines here at school. We thought it would be inter-about her being at work. The last one was as Interesting as the first. if not more so. "From the book 500 Answers to Bee Questions -Bee Question £3 ... Is it true that bees are color blind? Answer: In so far as red is concerned, bees are color blind. To bees, red and black appear the same." 
I am very disappointed that I never got to speak to Gertie. She seems very interesting. to say the least. 
follows: "Nobody's home (repeated many times to the music)! So leave a message now. Nobody's home!" 
Around Christmas time Chris had a Santa Claus rap on the machine. He described another message that asked for four synonyms for pleasure. His Mom, who he said hardly ever called, left a return message: "Chris, Kate, Mary, Joe" (her four children). 
a story about 'A' and 'B'. Stayed out late last night and now they're lying in bed. So if you got a message please make it brief (high pitched screech here). Better get ready 'cuz here comes the beep." 
According to A, people usually just hang up, but he attributes that to the types of friends they have. 
Where do they get their ideas? "B takes lots of drugs," sages. Then I could compile an unabridged list of answering machine messages and their respective phone messages on campus. Of course, this list would be available for release to anyone interested in calling the numbers and leaving equally weird, obnoxious, or funny messages. 
Some people may enjoy talking to appliances. To me, "The message is very plain. I hate ... answering machines." 

Women's lib has yet to hit France 
O
ne of my favorite scenes from The Big Chill is after the spaghetti feast. when the group of friends all get to­gether and do the dishes to "Aint't Too Proud To Beg." Their camaraderie shines 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 
through and the fact that the 
men help too is a great sign if 
the times we now live in, at 
least in the United States. 
Tradition still reigns in France, 
however. 
Weekends at home with my French family are usually quiet but recently we had a change of pace when some relatives came over. I live with an older, divorced woman and her nineteen-year-old daughter. Our company consisted of four females and one male. There were two young girls, their par­ents, and their grandmother. That Sunday we lingered over a full, typically French three-hour meal and finally rose from the table around 3:30p.m. 
Dishes were stacked and cleared, leftovers packed away, and positions for washing and drying the dishes taken. Not until I was in the midst of drying the second course plates did I realize that the sole man present had not yet lent a hand or even offered to help. 
As I was meticulously pre­venting any spots from settling on the wine glasses, my mind was just as carefully analyzing this situation. I glanced at the 
•pots and pans to be scoured, the drying rack to be emptied, and the silverware to be placed in drawers. We females had our hands full and there was much to be done. But, the father's paper was never replaced by a towel and none of the women suggested that it should be. 
Being a guest in this home myself, I was in no position to toss a towel in the sports sec­tion and hint that help was needed. Even more important than the fact that I am not a blood relative is the fact that I am not one of them. My French family has their ideas, cus­toms, and ways of living which are their own and typically French. Having been raised in a family where Dad does the dishes and Mom cuts the grass occasionally, traditional stereotypes were not strongly enforced in my life. That depar­ture from roles, I think. is ex-elusively typical of the latest generations in America. 
French women are joining the work force, single parent familes do exist. and although I do not know of any specific names, I am sure there are active feminist groups. While these changes have altered their walk of life a bit. actual training and attitudes have not yet begun to change. The cited examples appear to be more out of necessity than desire on 
the part of both women and men to achieve equality and recognition. Traditional roles for women abound here and are generally accepted. 
For instance, after we had finished the dishes that same day, the whole family and I went to the local park which had a lake, animals for the children to look at, and wind­ing paths to stroll upon. It was a crisp, beautiful day and many young families were out. What struck me was that whenever we passed a young couple with a newborn in a stroller, the wife was the one pushing the stroller. Only twice the whole afternoon did I see husbands doing the pushing. As for the young people, I can 
see them struggling between doing what they want to do and what their parents, families, and society say they should do. Most groups of young women do not go out to bars, dancing. or dinner by themselves. Herds of males are seen, but. most often, a wo­man will only be seen with a date or within a group of friends of both sexes. Thus, we crazy American girls are often stared and thought to be "out for a good time." A young American man once told me that when he was in a bar tllled with men and a group of four women walked in, he immedi­ately was told by his French 
friend that those women were whores. His friend's reasoning? 
do everything they can to achieve success. So, when equality becomes the important issue of the day, it will surely be achieved to their satisfaction before the towel is thrown in. Do they know what ink is being spilled on them! 





The Observer 
The oe..w. Notnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The oe..w. Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of H-ugar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All cluslfleds must be prapald, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five

Classifieds c"-acters per day. 
BOB-YES,YOU-CAU MEl

LOST:LEVI'S JEAN JACKET, INSIDE DRUIDS will rule the known universe. "so this was a George Peppard!" 
LABEL" JOHN S. TULLY", VERY WORN Watch for this weekend's ceremonies · why thank you.
NOTICEi] PERSONALS
IN AND FADED. LOST AT CAMPUS Give grulllr depth to your lit. with a
time and place TBA. VIEW FRIDAY NIGHT MAYBE? THIS Stonehenge lives . VATICAN 111-"0ne of the moat popular major or aecond major In theology. Typ~ng WAS GIVEN TO ME BY MY BEST OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, blonde on campue." P,.reglatretlon Ia approechlng, 10 Free P1ckup and Delivery 
FRIEND, SO PLEASE CALL KATY CARRY OIJT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE come dlacuae the po181blllt ... with E. 277-7406 
£1319 IF FOUND.THANKS. BLOCK SOIJTH OF HOLIDAY INN. DOGS OF ALUMNI At DUKE'S tonight, tueaday. 2.50 Gorllkl, C.S.C., 340 O'Shaughn...y. THE TIME IS NOW FOR REAL LEAD· pltchere and .50 drefta. LOST Girls gold 10 bracelet at Senior 1ST SOURCE BANK ERSHIP. VOTE FOR WINKS AND Tracy,D.D.,Laura,the one who likes to be 
EXPERT TY-PING SERVICE CALL 
Formal 1n Chicago. II tound please call Buy or IHae • car. 238-2200. Flnenc· NAPES. WE WANT YOUR IDEAS, AND Come --the POPE'S group -called Sarah,and the rest of the PartyMRS COKER, 233-7009 
lng available lor all US etatea. Women from 4A: Thanks for the best
Susan Barone at 4520. YOUR HELP. VOTE WINKS AND 
NAPES. VATICAN Ill B-Day Bash ever! I had a great Hme and Wordproceeelng 
LOST: LEVIS JEANS JACKET so did some others I hear. 277-8131 
My Lev•s jeans jacket disappeared from " Spring Break Travel to New York? " Ursula Andress, Jane Seymour, Britt Ek­2nd floor Lewis during a party on Sat. " Buy Now & Save " land --Each one of the Bonds has had kerry, I love you. -pee Needed: 4 FUN WILD MEN on April 1 1 mght. In the last two years I've worn that " $90 AT Tix to Newark " one or two of them at any given time, ................................................................ at 9:00pm to play choo-choo, try exotic TYPING AVAILABLE jacket to 10 countries and washed It just " Leave 3112, Return :>21 " but only ONE 007 has had them all --B. THE ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS new drinks, and dance the night away. three times. The accumulated dirt on It " Call X3586 NOW " David Lennertlll See him on the make Lou Holtz-Sound good? Give us a call at 1-SLY. 
287-4082 has a great deal of sentimental value. A again in From a Drain to a Kill These guys are great. I've waited my laundry tag sewn on the inside back of Need GRADUATION TIX. Call Kim at Stay tuned entire life for a chance to come to Notre I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE 4<l-5 the jacket reads P.E. Oeschger. A con­2687. Dame to see them and when this coach­GREG 2727 t5UNIVEASITY RESUME 
tact tens case and eyedrops were In one Ing thing came up I jumped at it. It there 
ProfeSBIOnal Resumes 
of the chest pockets. If lound PLEASE LARGEST selection ol Cliti<Monarch HI Suzanne I Thank you for the tea. was ever any question of the difficulty ot Molly & Patty who were In San Diego for Student Rates 
call Paul at 2287. No questions asked. my schedule this settles II. I hear Spring Break call Steve & Andy lrom U.
Notes in Michianal Buy!Seii--Stextbooks
Near the Mall Maine at 207-827-8221
$$$. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard BRUNO, You forgoll I can't eat meat on Lampton and Finnerty have 4.0's
272-6336 
:;;~re you at C~~pus View Friday? Did St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 Frldaysl It tasted great anyway! Why Dear BRYN, Thanks for the much needed 
you have a lew too many beers? D id don't you come again next week-I have Digger Phelps-you accidentally acquire my 35mm N.D. GLEE CLUB SPRING CONCERT slot left over! It will be tun too, I promise! The Esophagus Constrictors have class. 
talk. Its good to know youre still around. THE CELLAR RECORD STORE -Now Canon Snappy camera ? (The one with . 8:15 p.m.-Fri., April 3 Washington Hall SM As fine an example of the student athlete Stop listening to that music. Love, 
hiring manager & employee posi!Jons tor 'Westley"
my spring break pictures and my friend's as you will find anywhere. I hear that
Ticket voucher distribution Tues., Mar.
next tall Applications available at store birthday) Everyone makes mistakes, 31--1 p.m. -3 p.m. Washington Hall HOT ICE Is coming... SEE ITII Hasler kid has a 4.0. you're lorgiven, but please retum my Hey John, here's your personal. You bet­Manager's Ohice
FOREIGN STUDENT Get a JOb before camera -at least my film -ipleasel 283-Happy Birthday FAITH ELLEN: "the big AI Maguire-ter be nice to me or I'll blackmail you you graduate and stay In US under new 4428 or Holy Cross desk SMC WVFI·AM 64 GIVEAWAYS! T" love Mary and Janice About those Esophagus Constrictors, about your recent Observer lame....me law.Send 519.95 lor this step-by-step 
well...

WVFI-AM 64 GIVEAWAYS!
guide. Young & Co. PO Box 241090, Andfta,
HUEY LEWIS AND THE NEWS TIX, PIZ· FOA··sA·Le;·oNE.ROUND'TFiiP'FljGH'i-Everyone knows how much I like to
Memphis TN 381 24 · 1 090 Why do you persist on trying to get even
FRoM O'HARE TO COL. SPRINGS. criticize Notre Dame but these guys areZA, TANNING SALON VISITS, HAIR· with me? Is It because I didn' get you edi­CHEAP. CALL TOM £3830. phenomenallll Rivers Is a Michelangelo, 

CUTS, DINNERS FOR TWO AT LOCAL ble underwear for your birthday. Sorry, I
FOR RENT then these guys are Elnstelns. That Kelly 
RESTAURANTS, CAKES AND PIES, just thought we were past that staae. AND MORElli II TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM 
TOP TEN REASONS NOT TO ASK kid and even that Lanza kid have 4.0's. Younfo~vrr,LOST/FOUND 6 bedroom 4-6 students $40o-500 & 84 FOR GIVEAWAYS MAGGIE WETTERICH TO A DANCE 10 Simply cataclysmic. Their water-boy, ex­PB utilities. Security system 234 6688 She'e • lot like Liz Beckley 9 She'e cuse me, h2o coordinator is also great! Are you going to 
aure to leave for 1 2 to 7 party 8

LOST: GOLD CHAIN BRACELET. IF be here lor Just 364 days to CIRCUS LUNCH!
SUM STOR:all belonings(lncl "Oooohhlll Do we get to drink all of See the ESOPHAGUS CONSTRIC·FOUND CALL 2905 
lur)sal&l!ecure Bill M.2327416 SUMMER SCHOOL??? theae?l?l" 7 Alcohol 11 tha only thing TORS on Tueadayl ehe'll put In her mouth 6 She'• never WVFI-AM 84LOST-Sun.,3o22,on campus In or near SHARE LARGE HOUSE WITH NO If so, The Observer needs your help In had enough 5 She'a a lot like Liz Be­Happy Birthday to the poor, dumb Puerto 
Speaking of Sports

Sacred Heart Church or In South D1mng 
producing some summer issues ol the
GRAD THIS SUMMER. $112 MO. ¢ ckley 4 She won't remember your Rican coffee drinker In love. 
Be sure to tune In tonlghtet 10 tor Notre UTIL. 289-8792, PAUL. name 3 You will remember her'• 2Hall Cale:18k. gold Circular lapel pin. ln­
newspaper. 
Dame's most listened-to radio show.

trlneiO' Sentimental value. The jobs are varied and, If you are In­
She'• not too "uplifting" 1 Cauae she'll Last week was Sheila Horox's B-day and Tonight's special guest Is Bookstore Bas­

REWARD.232-8732. terested In newspaper training In your go we hear she was looking mighty Iunny ketball XVI commlasioner Steve Wenc. 
spare time, cal/ The Observer offices and in that sombrero! FOUND --SET OF KEYS ON STEPAN Phone In your questions to 239-6400.
ask for Mark Pankowski or Kevin Becker. 
Need ride to MPLS. this weekend-will

WANTED Speaking of Sports
INTERHALL FOOTBALL FIELDS IF 
The Observer share expenses. Call Kevln-1 038. Karen, how's the FIJI doing? 
WVFI-AM 64YOU LIVE IN ROOM 236 OF SOME 

end 
DORM, THESE KEYS ARE YOURS!t 
TYPISTS -$500 weekly at hamel Write: Special Olympics HI THERE. Groan Wrappe-Thanks for the great HEY SWEET CHEEKS-TH,
CALL WARREN AT 283-1206 TO 
P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 NEEDS YOUIII I am • young, eaductlve weekend and the lantastic white flower. JUST A LITTLE NOTE TO SAY THANKS 
CLAIM. ................................................................ 
woman of the elghtlae . I have great taste! -love, Captain Cavey FOR BEING YOU AND FOR UNDER· SUMMER JOBS STANDING MEl PLEASE TAKE CARE
Hook 'em Studs Gianzero for Pres 
And I know that I would

LOST: One pearl earring somewhere in 
ALL LANOWATER SPORTS definitely Students interested ln careers in COM­OF YOURSELF AND GOOD LUCK THIS 
or between Lyons and LaFortune the l1rst SIMPLE MEALI
PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK give up my Independence tor MERCIAL BANKING are invited to attend WEEK. THINK FAll LOVE ME 
week of March. II you found it could you 
MOUNTAINS Alumni'• Wlnkl and Napes a lecture given by the Northern Trust Co. 
please call P.J. at x3023 or x2999. ................................................................
CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY AM 914 ...whet • ticket ... (Chicago) TONIGHTII 7 pm 124 Hayes PAT COSTELLO 
Thanks. SIMPLE MEAL!
381-4224 your flaming lemlnlet Healy PAT COSTELLO PAT COSTELLO 
Lost -Maroon. National Gallery POSTER ................................................................ 
Students interested In careers in Com­DON'T YOU JUST HATE THOSE 

TUBE with Utrlllo print inside. Left be­SIMPLE MEALI
RIDE NEEDED: To New York City ASAP. "QUESTIONS" II gro11. mercial Banking are invited to attend a FRIDAY NIGHTS WHEN YOU CAN'T tween Grace and the East Gate Security 
Please call David Hennekes at 3670. "QUESTIONS" II explicit. lecture given by the Northern Trust Co. REMEMBER WHAT YOU SAID, WHO house on the Friday before break. Great (Chicago) TONIGHTII 7 pm 124 Hayes YOU SAW AND 
sentimental value. Call Ann 2595 ································· o~r~;;.;·;;·:;;;~~~h·3;·:·;;~it;'iii~i~;;·;;~ii~ but goah lt'a fun, huh? 
RIDE NEEDED To Toledo, Ohio on .W3 Healy
will be serving a Simple Meal. Please
and return 4{)5. Will pay $. Call John ................................................................ ................................................................ 
HELP! I LOST MY BOOKBAG IN THE make the sacrifice and teet how the other WANTED
3559 HAPPY B-DAY TO THE GLAM CREA­HAPPY B-DAY ELISE KOZAK! JUST 
BOOKSTORE. I REALLY NEED THE two-thirds of the world live. This event is TURE FROM HELL! LEATHER LIVES. WAITI IT'S NOT OVER YETI LOVE, BJ,
GLASSES THAT WERE IN THERE. sponsored by the Charity Ball and the COACH---ALIVE OR
BUT FLANNEL ROCKS! LB. CH, JL, KF, MA, & ED! 

CALL ERIC REINKOBER £3528. World Hunger Coalition. JUST A PILE OF FLESH .............. .. ......... IN A POOL OF BLOOD
FOR SALE 
CHRIS Happy Birthday you lameriHave a cool VATICAN Ill
LOST: TWO GOLD CHAINS IN RM219 IN AN ALLEY...WHERE NOBODY
Help! I need ride to I.U. at BloomingtonOF ROCKNE WED. MARCH 1 1 day. Best of luck for a great year-you CARES.
lor the weekend ol April tO. Will be glad VATICAN Ill
BEFORE BREAK GOLD TEDDYBEAR THANKS FOR LETTING ME LIVE TO
Round trip ticket to D.C. for Easter $100. deserve n. Terp
to help pay for gas. Please call Mike at
PENDENT ON ONE. PLEASE HELP. NO REMEMBER "MY BIG NIGHT!"
It Interested call Tash at 277 5626 
x4644. VATICAN Ill
QUESTIONS ASKED. KATHY WALSH WHAT A HUMANITARIAN. 109 2699. ---A LEGITIMATE, NOT-SQ-SECRET 
Yes, George Peppard does have a fan ­Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 club. Call Marko or Don at 286-1 842 to AD-MIRER
VATICAN Ill

THE TRIBE Loot: A blue Totes umbrella on :>26 at through the U.S. Government? Get the This is their year. join. HEY TOUGH GUYI... HERE'S YOUR
VATICAN Ill -AT DUKE'S BISTRO

the pool office at approximately 10:45 facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. Opening day is fast approaching .. PERSONAL.
TONIGHT!

a.m. It found. please call Tim at x4073 
7316 He Is, who Is: George Peppard. 
Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball referees will have an organizational meeting Thursday, April2, at 7 p.m. at the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone interested in officiat­ing is encouraged to attend. For more information or to sign up before the meeting, contact Warren Berry at 283­1206. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball late sign-ups will be held today from 3 to 5 p.m. at the An Tostal office in LaFortune. A $5 entry fee is needed to sign-up. -The Observer 
The An Tostal ultimate frisbee tournament will have an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. at 123 Nieuwland for those interested in forming teams. For rriore information contact Pat Dunne at 283-1562. -The Observer 
The All-Tournament team consistsofMVPKeith Smart, Indiana teammate Steve Alford, Syracuse forward Derrick Coleman, guard Sherman Douglas, and Armon Gilliam of UNLV. -Associated Press 
The Chicago Cubs have acquired veteran catcher Jim Sundberg from the Kansas City Royals. In return, the Royals receive pitcher Dave Gumpert and outfielder Thad Bosley. -Associated Press 
David Rivers was honored this weekend with the "USBWA Coors Light Most Courageous Award." The United States Basketball Writers Association will grant Notre Dame a check for $1,000 for use in its athletic schol­arship program. The award honors a player, coach or official who demonstrates unusual courage reflecting honor on the sport of basketball. -The Observer 
Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 9 
,. ....... 

~. '* •. 
Miunesota and St. Louis engage in an alterca­tion in some unfriendly NHL action. The North 
'Corn-fed chicks' welcomed back 
APPhoto Stars fell to the New York Rangers last night, 6-5. 

Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Ten­nessee's Lady Volunteers paraded into the airport yester­day holding one NCAA wo­men's national championship trophy and at least a dozen ears of corn. 
The trophy was for their 67-44 basketball victory over Louisiana Tech on Sunday, which broke a string of seven Tennessee appearances in the women's Final Four without a championship. 
The corn, supplied by a local farmer as they arrived from Austin, Texas, was a joke stem­ming from a postgame com­ment by Cindy Brown of Long Beach State, the Lady Vols' semifinal victim. 
Referring to the Lady Vols' physical style of play, Brown complained about some "cheap shots out there. But what do you expect from big, corn-fed chicks like that?" 
Kathy Spinks, Tennessee's 6­foot-2, 175-pound forward, was first into the airport lobby and, with corn held high, said, "If that's what it takes to get a championship I'll eat it all year." 
The Lady Vols feasted on their postseason opponents after weathering a 2-3 stretch in late January and early February and being bumped from the Southeastern Confer­ence Tourney by Auburn. 
The championship was the first for Coach Pat Head Sum­mitt in eight trips to the wo­men's Final Four. I 

The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 10 
year since 1972 when two stu­dents, Fritz Hoefer and Vince
Bookstore 
Meconi, decided that Notre
continuedfrom page 16 
Dame needed to liven up the 
tors. This is the squad which, campus athletic scene in the 
for the past two years, has cal­spring. That year, 53 teams 
culated the wind velocity with competed in the tournament. 
slide rules and proceeded to hit The champions in 
half-court shots. They'll need Bookstore's initial year were 
more than math skills on the led by Irish basketball star 
court today as they face John Shumate. He was joined 
Verkler Construction, a team on that team by varsity team­
led by last year's Bookstore mates Gary Brokaw, Dwight 
MVP Jim Dolan. Irish football Clay, and Pete Crotty, and foot­
head coach Lou Holtz will join ball quarterback Cliff Brown. 
Dolan on the Verkler Construc­After that team dominated the 
tion team. tournament, a rule was imple­
"For the Hall of Fame game mented to allow only one pres­
we look for two teams that are ent or former NCAA Division I 
going to put on a good show," basketball player, male or 
said Tournament Commis­female, per team. Also, only 
sioner Steve Wenc. three varsity football players, 
There are 30 other games on or two football players and a slate for Tuesday as the pre­Division I basketball player, liminary rounds of the tourna­are allowed on one team. ment get underway. The Another rule that is part of preliminaries will last through the uniqueness of Bookstore Friday, when the tournament Basketball is that games are sectionals gets underway. played regardless of weather Beginning Saturday, there will conditions. It has not been un­be 70 games per day until usual to see thunderstorms and Easter break. Wenc, in his snow fall on the campus during second year as commissioner, the tournament, but the games admits that his committee has go on. Also, no substitutions or had it's hand full with the timeouts are allowed. Free scheduling of the largest field throws and field goals are both in Bookstore Basketball his­worth one point, and the games tory. are played to 21. 
In 1978, the tournament was 
"It's obviously a monster," given national attention in a 
said Wenc. "We have 80 more four-page Sports Illustrated ar­
teams than last year, and the ticle in the May 15 issue. The 
schedule (26 pages long) is 5 writer, Rick Telander, joined a 
pages larger. With 662 teams, team undercover and did not 
we are about 300 or 400 ahead interview players openly to 
of the second largest avoid glory-seeking students. 
(tournament)--Hoosier "I've never seen a campus 
Hysteria--the Indiana high where sports are more impor­
school basketball tourna­tant," said Telander. "Even in 
ment." the calmest of times Notre 
The tournament has grown in Dame can resemble an Olym­
The official sign of spring 
Tuesday's Games 
Bookstore 9 4:15-Verkler Construction vs. Esophagus Con­strictors: Appendix A ... 
4:45 -4 Goons & A Child Molester vs. Citizens For Oliver North 
5:30 -Remember Thai Keg ... vs. N.D. Women vs. Socially Retarded Males 
6:15 -Ronald Reagan, Liberace and 3 ·'· vs. Thanks Fr. Nieuwland 
Bookstore 10 
4:45 -Team N0.262 vs. Team N0.588 
5:30 -Fly Girl and the Boogie Boys vs. I Phelta Thi 
6:15 -Alcoholic & 4 Anonymouses vs. Team N0.263 
Lyons 11 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Used To Like ... vs. Sets 3 and 5 and Building 
5:30 -Gumby & 4 Other Senior Bar ... vs. The Ball-Headed Freakdaddies 
6:15-5 Guys From Carrol ... vs. 5 Guys Who Don't Know What Reagan Said ... Lyons 12 
4:45 -5 Guys Hung ... vs. The Raging Meatuses 
5:30 -3 Foaming Tankards of Ale ... vs. Flying Fubar 5 
Stepan 1 
4:45 -5 Guys Sportin' ... vs. Team N0.493 
5:30 -Eggs & Sausage, Beans & Chips ... vs. Officer Ashley and .. 6:15-Damian Lebamoff & 4 Other Snakes vs. Phtphppt 
Stepan 2 
4:45 -I Wish I Was Man ... vs. Original Name Censored By Student Activities 
5:30 -Deathtongue vs. Grandpa & The 4 Bad Touches 
6:15 -The 5'1 O"Guys vs. Wenatchee Wonders Stepan 3 
4:45 -We Were Illegally Recruited By SMU vs. Dr. Bralge & The 4 Players 5:30 -The Inside Traders vs. Uncontrollable Flatulence From Hell 
6:15 -Friends of the Sea Otter vs. J.J. & the 
TA's Stepan 4 
4:45 -Now We Go To School -The Last Class vs. Team N0.421 
5:30 -STUDD vs. 5 Skins and No Players 
6:15 -Two on Five vs. Dripping Tazmanian Pig Snots 
Stepan 5 
4:45 · Team No. 622 vs. lggy & the Anglos 
5:30 -Bush Gardens vs. Toil and Trouble 
6:15 -Capt. Kosher. His Board & 3 Nails vs. Team No. 651 
Stepan 6 
4:45 -Gerry's Guys vs. Skip Holtz, The War Memorial & 3 Other Useless Blocks 
5:30 -Sheep Thrill vs. Largest Agbejemison and the Smurfs From Hell 6:15-Spigot O'Vomit vs. Tinkle 


& 
BLIND RIVER 
TONIGHT 9-l:OOam 
at 

numbers and popularity every pic training village." 
~---THEODORE'S----------' 
... 
.... 
.... 
.... 
....
........ 
....
........ 
.... 
....
...... 
Wed, April 1 7:00-9:00 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Come and see about positions and opportunities
-
for you with Student Government next year. 

_.,_______________ 
--··~-------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 11 
Gymnastics Club takes combined title in Clover Classic 
In the first annual Clover Classic last weekend at the Angela Athletic Facility, the Gymnastics Club closed its season exactly the way it wanted. 
Notre Dame won the combined men and wo­men's overall competition in its own meet, beating the University of Chicago, Indiana, Miami of Ohio, and Purdue. 
LEading the way for the Irish were Jen Hoover, who placed third all-around for the women, and Paul Nowak and Matt Sennett, who placed first and second, respectively, in the men's all-around. 
"It was by far our best meet," said Nowak. "Just the last two weeks, we'd been working out really hard. Earlier we had people hurt, but this time everyone was helping out. It was fantastic." 
Opening its spring season in fine fashion, the Rugby Club's A team destroyed St. Bonaventure at home, 33-0. The B team also won in a shutout, 13-0, and the C team tied St. Bonaventure, 4-4. 
"I think all around for the first game we did pretty well," said Club Vice-President Tim O'Connell. "The serum played pretty well to­gether, and the backs were really quick and passed very well." Notre Dame goes to Chicago this Saturday to face a men's club team, the South Side Irish. 
"They're pretty good," said O'Connell. "It should be one of our toughest matches of the year." 
While the Men's Volleyball Club lost its third straight match against varsity competition last weekend, the team's performance encouraged the Irish, who now stand at 19-5. 
Notre Dame lost to Indiana-Purdue at Fort 
Wayne, ranked eleventh in the nation, 7-15, 5-15, 
8-15, but team members felt they played better in 
this match than they did in their two previous 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

matches against varsity teams. The Irish have a 19-2 record against other club teams. 
"That's the best we've played against a varsity team since I've been here," said Club President John Sullivan. "They have an All-American can­didate named Ted Owen who we really shut down. 
"Mike O'Grady has really turned into our leader," continued Sullivan. "The more the season goes on, the more we depend on him." 
Before falling to Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne, the Irish cruised past another club team, beating Michigan at home last Wednesday. After losing the first game, 12-15, the Irish swept the next three sets, 15-10, 15-8, 15-5, to take the match. 
Notre Dame faces Hope College on the road this Thursday. The Irish have beaten Hope twice pre­viously this year. 
After a triumphant perfomance over Spring Break in the Heart of Texas Regatta, the Rowing Club is preparing for two regattas that will include schools from very different areas. 
In this weekend's regatta at Augusta, Ga., the Irish will meet Oxford and schools from the Ivy League. In the regatta hosted by Notre Dame on Aprilll, the Irish will be facing Big Ten opposition. 
We're really pleased with how we did in Texas," said Club President John Ralph. "We've never been to Augusta before, and we don't know what to expect, but we're kind of confident and looking forward to going there." 
The Fastpitch Softball Club will host a tourna­ment this Saturday in dits first action of the year. 
The  Notre  Dame Tourney  will  include  Notre  
Dame,  Marquette,  College  of  Lake  Co.,  and  
Purdue-Hammond.  

'Malloy 
continuedfrom page 16 
enough, All the President's Men. There first game will be Sunday at 4:45 p.m. on Bookstore Court 10. 
"We have three people back from last year, and one new person from Morrissey," said Malloy. "I've played with teams from the seminary, but recently I've played with teams mainly from Sorin. It's usually arbitrary who I end up laying with but once I play with people I usually stay with them all the way through." 
Malloy's love for basketball has long been known by his friends and the residents of Sorin Hall where he resides. He 
APPhoto played high school basketball Senior guard Steve Alford hit seven three-point shots last night in Indiana's one-point victory. 

for Archbishop Carroll High 

How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance of being accepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top law firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
LSAT &15-871 KAPLAN 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
*CLASSES 
*INDEPENDENT STUDY 
*NATIONWIDE TRANSFERS 
*TRANSFER DISCOL~TS! 

it for the exercise and companionship--but its a rela­tively small part of my life even though I enjoy it." 
Malloy sponsors "Monk Hoops" every Monday and Wednesday night for Sorin Hall residents. On those nights, Mal­loy and approximately 20 resi­dents play two hours of basket­ball at Moreau Seminary. 
"Over the course of the year, " he said, "a large percentage play at least once. We usually play two full courts. We've had very few small crowds this year, its been fairly consis­tent." Malloy admits he likes to play his basketball indoors, rather than the outdoor setting and unpredictable conditions of Bookstore Basketball. 
"It (Bookstore) is too physi­cal and too dependent on the condition of the weather and the court," said Malloy. "I am more of a long distance shooter and finesse player than I am an animal ballplayer. And if the wind is blowing too hard, or the rain is coming down, or the rim is bent, it effects my game as it does anybody else's game. 
"Basically, I'm a shooter. At this stage of my life, my other skills are more limited than my shooting skills." 
In the 14 years he has played in the tournament, Malloy has seen some of the most memorable moments in Bookstore Basketball history, and how the show must go on. 
"I remember one champion­ship game," recalls Malloy, "in the midst of a thunderstorm with lightning flashing, people were sitting in trees and there was so much water on the court you couldn't dribble. Another year there was a complete bliz­zard, and people wore mittens and nobody could run. All you could do was kind of keep upright. That's all part of the tradition, too. That's not basketball--! don't know what it is--1 guess it's just Bookstore." 
"I'm in decent shape for my age," said Malloy. "During the school year I tend to play bas­ketball twice a week. We play pretty vigorously. Then I run maybe one other day if it's warm enough. For me, it's a form of exercise and a way of being with the students. That people think its odd that I do it doesn't bother me. People get exercise by swimming, run­ning, or playing racquetball, this happens to be the way I do it." 

*************** TO OUR FAVORITE NEWHALL 
Congrats LA-LA 
LoveJB &Kate 
************** 
School in Washington, D.C.,
along with Georgetown basket­ball head coach John Thompson. 
"We were mythically rated the number-one team in the country for two years in a row by Parade Magazine," Malloy said. "It was the first team in 
have been a lot of good teams from there since. 
"I came to Notre Dame on a basketball scholarship. I never played as succesfully here as I would have liked, and as a result I got involved in a lot of other things. Since then basket­ball has been fun--I like to play 

PRESIDENT 
Washington that got a lot of 
noteriety and of course there 


r 
The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987 -page 12 
Irish golfers fade to eighth place in Eastern Kentucky Invitational 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
Good weather and good for­tunes were to be close com­panions of the Notre Dame golf team this weekend at Eastern Kentucky. While all teams were graced with the former, the latter belonged to the host school as the Irish mustered an eighth-place finish in a field of 
17. Through the first 36 holes of the 54-hole event, however, the Irish were in fifth and were in striking distance of a top-three finish. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan, who said he was pleased with his club's first-ever showing at the 
E. Kentucky Invitational, felt that his players may have been a bit over-aggressive on the last round, where the team dropped from fifth to eighth. 
"We had high numbers on the final round, and what really hurt us was our putting," he said. "We three-putted too many times and you can't do that on a par 72 course." 
The site of the tournament was Arlington C.C., which O'Sullivan described as being in excellent condition with a course rating of 74.5. E. Ken­tucky took advantage of its home cooking, as it edged out Northwestern by three strokes (883 to 886) to take first. West­ern Kentucky, Toledo, and Ten­nessee rounded out the top five with scores of 899, 902, and 907. 
The  order  of  finish  for  the  
remainder  of  the  field  was  
Louisville  (908),  James  

Madison (909), Notre Dame 
Champs 
continuedfrom page 16 
seasons, had 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
Syracuse, which shared the Big East title with Pittsburgh and Georgetown, got 20 points from point guard Sherman Douglas, 18 from center Rony Seikaly and 12 from guard Greg Monroe. 
Coleman, a 6-foot-9 fresh­man, grabbed 19 rebounds, two shortofthetournamentrecord set by Bill Spivey in Kentucky's championship win over Kansas State in 1951. 
Indiana trailed most of the 
first half, but two straight 3­
pointers by Alford put them in 
the locker room at halftime 
with a 34-33 lead. 
Indiana took a 41-37 lead in 
the second half, but Syracuse 
outscored the Hoosiers 15-3, 
with reserve Derek Brower 
contribjlting five points and 
Seikaly four points for a 52-44 
lead. · 
The Hoosiers bounced back with a 10-0 run as reserve Joe Hillman made two steals and Garrett blocked shots by Seikaly and Coleman. Smart's jumper capped the run for a 54-52 Indiana lead. 
Syracuse came back with seven straight points, the last on Douglas' 3-pointer. 
Indiana came back to tie it at 61 on a basket by Smart. After three more ties, Seikaly scored with 2:03 remaining. He was fouled on the play, but missed the free throw. 
Smart, a 6-1 guard, then tied it at 70 with a quick move to the basket with 1:20 left. 
Triche then made a goal with 56 seconds remaining for a 72­70 Syracuse lead. 
(917), Ferris State (918), Mar­shall (921), Akron (922), Morehead St. (927), Murray St. (944), E. Michigan (949), Youngstown (950), Evansville 
(
969) , and W. Michigan (994) . 

E. 
Kentucky's Bruce Olden­dick was the tournament medalist shooting a three-day total of 215. 


While the linksters may not have turned many heads, coach O'Sullivan could not resist on praising his sensa­tional freshman, John Connel­ly. 
"John really deserves a big pat on the back for his play this weekend," 0' Sullivan said. "His numbers placed him among the top-12 golfers of a major tourney like the E. Ken­tucky Invitational." 
Connelly paced the Irish with a respectable three-day total of 227(76-77-74). Pat Mohan(73-75­
80) finished one stroke behind Connelly with a 228. Dick Con­nelly, John's older brother, had two good rounds of 75 and 74 before suffering a disastrous 83 on the final round. The elder Connelly had a total of 232. 
Doug Giorgio posted a final of 235 (75-78-82). Finally, Chris Bona pitched a 237(77-82-78) for the three rounds. The high score in each round was thrown out to arrive at a team's final score. O'Sullivan said he was encouraged about last weekend's results as the Irish prepare for their next stop at Purdue. The club will be joined by 17 others comprising the Big Ten, MAC, and major indepen­dents. That tournament will also be a 54-hole event, with 36 being played Saturday. 
O'Sullivan said he has to prepare the squad smartly, so that they do not play over­aggressively again, and at the same time not play overly con­servative. O'Sullivan's hopes that the perfect balance at Purdue could be in the offing this weekend. 




This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound®to the beach, the mountains, or your hometown. For just $89 round trip, you and your friends will have a great time wherever you go. 

Anywhere Greyhound goes. 
C6GOGREYHOUND
EMAooleave the driving to us= 
Greyhound • 4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 

Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective ])IJ'if'l through 4130/'if'l. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. <l~ 19M"? Gn..yhound Lines, Inc. 



en's tennis team beats Ind. State, ­ails to Boilers in weekend action 


MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting Is reminiscent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition we otTer you a special discount. 
~ 
New apartments being 
built through Spring '87 
~ 
Pool, Clubhouse, 
Community Activities 
it 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
Intercom entrances 
~ 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
Earthtone Interiors
• 
Country Kitchens
• 
•call for details about 
your discount 277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
presents 
SEN. JOHN TOWER 
Chairman of "The Tower Commission" Investigator of the Iran/Contra Arms Deal 
Wednesday, April1 8:00pm Washington Hall 
RESERVED SEATING: Tickets $2 each; available at The Cellar in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center from Thursday, March 26 to Wednesday, April1. 
~· 
The Observer I Robert Jones The Notre Dame lacrosse team captured an 11-10 victory In over­time over Colgate. Steve Megargee details the game below. 
Olmstead keys Irish to 11-10 OT victory 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Sophomore attack man and Corning, N. Y., native John Olmstead had a heroic return to New York state in the Notre Dame lacrosse team's victory over Colgate on Saturday at Hobart College. 
Olmstead scored the game­winning goal for the Irish 1: 25 into overtime, after recording a go-ahead tally with 1:58 remaining in regulation. Olmstead finished the contest with four goals and two assists in leading Notre Dame to an 11-10 overtime win. The win raised Notre Dame's record to 2-2. 
"It was a 9-9 game, and he scored the tenth goal with about two minutes left," said Irish head coach Rich O'Leary. "Colgate scored with about 
1:30 left, and it went into over­time. He scored the game­winner on a fast-break goal on an assist from Mike Brennan." 
Notre Dame first looked as if it would breeze to an easy win away from home, as the Irish jumped to a 9-5 lead in the first three quarters. Olmstead had two early goals with two as­sists, Notre Dame's leading scorer John McLachlan had a goal and two assists, and Tom Lanahan, Jim Shields, and co­captain Dave O'Neill also scored for the Irish. 
Colgate went on a furious charge in the fourth quarter to tei the score, and made the match as close as O'Leary had expected. 
"In a seven-minute period, they scored four goals to tie it at nine," said O'Leary. "I thought it would be close. They were undefeated, and they'd upset a pretty good team in It­haca College. We had to play pretty well, and we did for three quarters." 
O'Leary said he was pleased with Notre Dame's perfor­mance except for the final quarter, where the Red Raiders made their charge. 
"We played three good quar­ters, and we did a lot of basic things well," said O'Leary. "On defense, we went with a man-to-man and zone, and it worked well except for the letup in the fourth quarter. Our clearing-up was better, and we scored more goals on the fast break." 
Notre Dame will go back on the road on Saturday, as the Fighting Irish will take on the Wooster Fighting Scots. 

By KELLY TOWNSEND ports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team headed south to face Indiana State and Purdue Uni­versity this weekend. Despite leaving behind injured Mike Wallace, the Irish were in high spirits. 
Notre Dame led off the weekend against Indiana State. Tim Carr set the pace for the Irish with a 6-2, 6-1 win at the number-one spot. Brian Kalbas followed this up with a 6-0, 6-0 blanking of his unlucky op­ponent. 
Dan Walsh held off a hard­hitting challenger with a 7-5, 6-4 win, while Paul Daggs came from behind to win his match in three sets. In doubles, the Irish maintained their control to sweep the match 9-0. 
Coach Tom Fallon said he was pleased with the impres­sive performance. 
"All the men played ex­tremely well," said Fallon. "We had a couple close matches in both the singles and doubles, but the men kept up the pressure." 
Sunday, however, the tables were turned as the Irish ran into a strong Boilermaker team. Purdue came out much as Notre Dame had the previ­ous day. 
The first three men grudg­ingly gave way to a determined Purdue team until Dan Walsh decided to counter-attack. After dropping the first set, Walsh dug in and proceeded to pound his startled opponent 6-3, 6-1. Walsh once again came into the limelight in the doubles competition as he and Paul Daggs teamed up for a 7-5, 6-2 win to make the final score, 7-2 Purdue. 
When asked about the change in performances, Coach Fallon let a little humor shine through. 
"Maybe these guys can't play that early in the mor­ning," he said. "I'm not disap­pointed with the men. Even with a strong team, Purdue is a problem and we were af­fected by injuries once again." 
The Irish will take this week to recuperate and prepare for their upcoming road trips to Ball State and Bowling Green. 

The Sports Department is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Sports Editor (1) 
A one-page personal statement is due Tuesday, March 31, at 5 
p.m. at the Observer office, third floor LaFortune. Questions should be directed to Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303. 
l . ~ ·• I 


--·-·· -­

The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1987-page 14 
-
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA, Fla. ­Sandy Lyle seems to attract the big titles and the goofy spec­tators. 
"It was very much like the British Open," Lyle said after his victory Sunday in the Tournament Players Champi­onship.
"I was just trying to make a lot of pars and maybe now and then get the odd birdie." 
He did that. And just like the British Open he got the odd spectator, too. 
A naked male romped across the green during the final round of the 1985 British Open that Lyle won at Royal St. George's. 
On Sunday, an unidentified man leaped into a lake and splashed around during Lyle's playoff victory over Jeff Sluman the annual champion­ship of golf's touring players. 
There were a couple of dif­ferences. In England, the 

MONDAY 
Charity Ball Night 
$1.50-all proceeds go to Charity Ball 9-11 "Blank Generation" 11-1 DJ Rick Reuter Best Tan Contest with prizes from The Cellar 
TUESDAY 
Overseas Development Network 
presents "The Law" and "Blind Rioer" 
10pm-1am 
$2 admission requested! 
···?Hft· 
,..~ .. • Knight's halftiiDe talk with Smart 
APPhoto 
Syracuse freshman Derrick Coleman grabbed 19 rebounds last night in New Orleans, two short of the NCAA Tournament record. 
Lyle takes TPC title, attracts strange crowd 
streaker had no appreciable bearing on the outcome of the tournament. He was tackled and hustled away by British bobbies. 
At the TPC, the swimming spectator very well could have distracted Sluman in the sud­den death playoff for a $180,000 first prize. And he got away. 
The young man went into the water when Sluman was lining up a potential winning putt, about an 8-footer, on the island green of the 17th hole, the second playoff hole. 
Sluman, who never before had finished higher than fifth in a regular PGA tour event, backed away from the biggest putt of his life. 
The man was taken from the water and escorted away by se­curity personnel, who later said fellow apparently had been been drinking. However, the man somehow slipped away and disappeared into the crowd. 
led to second-half explosion, MVP 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Indiana Coach Bob Knight made a wise move when he collared Keith Smart for a strategy session at halftime of the NCAA basket­ball tournament championship game. 
"Coach Knight talked to me at halftime and told me I would have to get into the game--not just get into the game, but to hit the gaps and take the jumper," Smart said. 
"I was only taking what was given to me," said Smart, who scored 17 of his 21 points in the second half. The last two came on a baseline jumper with five seconds left that provided In­diana a 74-73 victory over Syracuse for the school's fifth national title. 
H was a performance that earned Smart the most valu­able player award. 
Just as Knight had before 
him, Smart came to realize 
that Syracuse was pressuring 
Indiana's All-American guard, 
Steve Alford. So Smart got the 
ball instead, scoring 14 points 
in the last 9% minutes. 
Syracuse also ~ried to deny 
the middle to center Daryl 
Thomas, so Smart was consis­
tently able to move inside 
during the final minutes. He made his game-winning basket from 16 feet out on the left side. 
"The play was designed to go to Steve, but he was heavily covered," said Smart, a junior­college transfer from nearby Baton Rouge. "Daryl did the smart thing, I guess, by drop­ping it back to me. 
"I don't believe this," Smart added. "I may sit down some­time next week and it'll dawn on me." 
Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim said the Orangemen did a solid job of containing Smart "most of the time, but he broke loose at the end. We played good enough defense to win the game." 

Syracuse forward Howard Triche, who was guarding Smart on his game-winning shot, gave his opponent all the credit. 
"He came up with a pretty good shot and made an excel­lent play," Triche said. 
Alford, who led Indiana with 23 points, scored only one bas­ket in the finalll: 39, that com­ing on a fast break layup with 
4:05 to play. Smart, however, picked up the slack and kept Indiana in the game. 

Ill  Fo:::.:.t> ~I'SoR..'/  
~  o..J"O~'{~1-P~c.--<  

~~TI~ 
~ 
~'~
J ~s;:Fec ~&.frAT\ ON 
~ ~'Vc.,S \~ 
<;.:~~~
~ (}V' ' z D \ 
't;:;>ESCJ2:.1PT"ICNS CF-:FOS\T"IQ.J.S At-.Jt> .APPLICA\\ONS AVA\LASL£:. lt-...1 ~~T OFF\C£:S­2.t-Jt> FU::::C:e.. L...A~. ~\CA\\~ DUE. &Y 
4'CO?t'-i -F12.\l::~A.Y,. ~\L 5 . 


,c.._.'"
~'\\u-­
p::!
~ 
~~~ ~T/ 
FACVLIY 


~c:tcJlCll~------------------------------------------Tu-es-da-y,_M_ar-ch_3_1,_19-87--p-a-ge-15 
Far Side Larson 




"I had them all removed last week and boy, do I feel great." 
The Daily Crossword 

Beer Nuts 
Campus 
= 
11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: "Proficiency Test­ing and Some Implications for the Class­room," Department of Modern and Clas­sical Languages workshop, by Dr. Heidi Barnes. 303 Cushing 
12:00 
p.m.: "A New Socialism in Chile?" Kellogg Institute brown bag seminar, by Ignacio Walker. 131 Decio 

12:00 
p.m.: "Golden Rule Egalitarianism and the Law," Thomas J. White Center on · Law and Government lecture, by Prof. James Gaffney. 121 Law School 12:10-12:55 p.m.: "The Wisdom-Reilly Collection of Old Master and 19th Century Drawings: The French Images," The Snite Museum Art Noontalk, by Stephen Spiro. The Snite Museum 


2:00p.m.: Notre Dame baseball vs. Bethel College. Jake Kline Field 
3:30 p.m.: "The O'Doherty-Anstey Phe­nomenon in Wave Propogation Through a Highly Discontinous, !-dimensional Medium," Aerospace and Mechanical En­gineering seminar, by Dr. Robert Bur­ridge. 303 Cushing 
4:30 p.m.: "Individual, Community, and Society: A Comparison Between Mrican and American Concepts of Humanity," Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Se­ries, College of Arts and Letters, and the Department of Anthropology lecture, by Colin Turnbull with follow-up commen­tary by Dr. Joseph Towles. Library Auditorium 
7:00 p.m.: "Romeo and Juliet," Shake­speare Club film. Engineering Auditorium. Admission is free 
7:30 p.m.: "Experience in the Third World," NOSMC Charity Ball lecture, by Denis Goulet. 123 Nieuwland Science 
____-­

Tuesday 
Bookstore B-ba/1 begins
/ 
Mark Williams 

7:30 p.m.: "Responses Through Individ­ual Groups to Systemic Injustice Within the Criminal Justice Organization," SMC Department of Justice Education 1986-87 Criminal Justice Series discussion, by Wanda Mangus, Linn Coleman, Martha Sallows, Greg Cress, and Charlotte Pfeifer. Stapleton Lounge 
7:30p.m.: "What to do When the Experts Disagree: Technological Decision Making in a Democratic Society," G.T.E. Foun­dation Distinguished Visiting Scholar Se­ries, and Program in Science, Technology, and Values lecture, by Prof. Harvey Brooks. Library Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: "Love and Death," Tuesday night film series, directed by Woody Allen. Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: "Generations of Resistence," African Studies Program film. Multi­purpose room of the Center for Social Con­cerns 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Breast of Turkey Beef Tortellini with Italian Sauce Spinach Quiche Tuna Muffin with Cheese 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Planks Baked Meatloaf with Gravy Beef and Bean Burritos Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Papal name 5 USMA word: 
abbr. 
·9 Sword 14 Gr. pitcher 15 Industrial 
watercourse 16 Love greatly 17 Meat cut 18 Intersections 20 Comic Bruce 22 Prufrock's 
creator 23 Make lace 24 Warm 26 Pension acct. 28 Cash or cake 30 Brilliant 35 Before 36 Certain joints 38 Pronoun for 
Penn 39 Ran out 41 Pencil 
correction 44 Agitate 45 Jacob's father 47 Central 48 Toothed wheel 51 Feelers 53 Common brew 54 Staircase 
features 56 Presidential 
nickname 59 Use 61 Hawkins of 
Dogpatch 64 Equestrian gear 67 Napoleonic 
victory site 68 Incensed 69 Hera's consort 70 Pitcher 71 Ready for 
battle 72 Gaelic 73 Snicker-­
DOWN 1 Canvass 2 Fiber plant 31ffy 4 Beetles 
member 

---sABpres~----­

THIS WEEK'S EVENTS 

C1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
3/31/87
All Rights Reserved 
5 Bow 6 Printer's 
mark 7 Altar boy 8 Arnaz 9 Existentialist 
10 Fuss 11 Vessel 12 Earth goddess 13 Musical 
notation 19 Earth 21 Tugs 25 "Auld Lang -" 27 Pismires 28 Taunts 29 Lowest deck 31 At a loss 32 Rejection cue 

33 Strange 34 Exploits 50 Root beverage 58 Dutch treat 37 Actress Adams 52 Papal 60 Workshop tool 40 Vegetable site vestments 62 -fixe 42 Knocks 55 Bk. pic 63 Celtic land 43 Field measures 56 Large landmass 65 Summer: Fr. 46 Marathon man 57 Spinning 66 Compass 
49 Came to a halt noise letters 

Thursday 
"Spinal Tap" 
Wednesday 
Friday 
Senator Tower of "Pretty in Pink" 
Tower Commission Nazz Competition at Stepan Bpm Wash Hall-get tix at The Cellar "Spinal Tap"-movie at EG aud. 
~ 
Saturday 
ND/SMC Charity Ball South Dining Hall 




Tuesday, March 31, 1987 -page 16
SRorts
' 
r 
Indiana claims national championship thriller 
IU beats Orangemen, 74-73 behind Smart's clutch play 
Associated Press Knight joined the select com­pany of UCLA's John Wooden, 
NEW ORLEANS -Keith with 10, and Kentucky's Adolph Smart, a junior college trans­Rupp, with four, as coaches fer, scored 17 of his 21 points in who have won more than two the second half last night, in­NCAA titles. Knight, who won cluding the game-winner with championships in 1976 and 1981, five seconds left, to give In­saw the fulfillment of the diana a 74-73 victory over recent adjustments he made. Syracuse and earn Coach Bob Previously, he was reluctant to Knight his third NCAA basket­sign junior college transfers ball title. and had been opposed to using 
Smart, the most valuable zone defenses. player, grabbed the rebound of Howard Triche's miss and But those changes helped drove for a goal to cut the Oran­Knight share the Big Ten title gemen's lead to 73-72. He hit with Purdue this year and ul­the game-winner from just in­timately took him to New Or­side the 3-point mark at the leans. baseline as the Hoosiers Steve Alford, Indiana's All­finished the season with a 30-4 American and all-time leading, record. scorer, added 23 points, hitting 
Syracuse had its chances. seven of 10 from 3-point range. But Triche missed the second His only other goal was a layup. of two free throws with 38 Forward Daryl Thomas seconds left and Coleman added 20 points and Dean Gar­missed a 1-and-1 with 28 rett, another junior college seconds remaining. transfer who gave Indiana the 
As time ran out, Smart inter­big man it lacked in recentIndiana is in a celebrating mood after the cepted Derrick Coleman's 
Hoosiers defeated Syracuse for the national floor-length desperation pass. 
see CHAMPS, page 12 

Hoosiers win title, but Knight's not sure team's 'real good' 
Associated Press his chair in frustration when pose, illustrating the way he When Syracuse opened an On Coleman's shot, Syracuse mistakes were made, some­wanted his guard playing the eight-point lead, Knight Coach Jim Boeheim pulled his 
NEW ORLEANS -Indiana is times holding his head or ball. showed no emotion and reacted other four players back from the champion of college basket­covering his eyes. When it was over, Knight the same way at an Indiana the lane, conceding the ball. Coach Bob Knight, Early in the second half, seemed more relieved that ex­spurt that wiped out that mar­rebound in order to set his however, still isn't sure if the Keith Smart, who would later hilarated. gin and put the Hoosiers in defense. Knight anticipated a Hoosiers are the best. score the winning basket with "When we got a piece of the front. second guess and defended 
"I'm still not sure we're a five second left, irked Knight Big Ten title, I thought we Twice in the final moments, Boeheim's decision vehement­real good basketball team," he with an errant pass that could do some things in the he used an old coach's trick, ly. said after Indiana beat resulted in a turnover. tournament, not necesarily calling a timeout as an oppos­Syracuse 74-73 Monday night. Knight immediately lifted win. We've had a couple of ing player prepared to shoot "With that time left, he "We came within a couple of the 6-foot-1 guard, inserting teams that I thought could win free throws. It worked each doesn't want to foul going over seconds of losing to LSU )in the reserve Joe Hillman. the championship. This was not time. the back for a rebound," the Midwest Regional finals), and "He did it to settle me down," necessarily one of them." Indiana coach said. ''A lot of within a couple of seconds of Smart said. "It was a big game Knight's sideline demeanor Syracuse senior Howard things have got to go through losing to Syracuse. We will not and it was a chance to gather was quiet most of the game. Triche missed the second of your mind when you make a go down in history as one of the my thoughts. I thank him for Once in the second half when two shots following Knight's decision. That one was ab­dominant NCAA champions." putting me back in." it appeared that Syracuse's first timeout, and then fresh­solutely right. The defense was 
The often volatile Knight When he did, it was not with­Rony Seikaly might be called man Derrick Coleman was set. Don't give us a chance to 
kept his composure almost out some extra sideline insight. for goaltending, the entire In­short with his attempt after the win the basketball game." throughout, rarely yelling at As Smart retreated on diana bench leaped up and second timeout, giving the In­Knight said that during the his players or the officials. defense, Knight jumped off the protested the block. Knight was diana the ball and 28 seconds timeout before Coleman's shot, More often, he leaned back on bench and assumed a defensive the only one still in his seat. to score the winning basket. he planned Indiana's last play. 
Bookstore XVI Malloy's play a 
';'}

tips off today tourney tradition 
•; ·~ 

By BRIAN O'GARA By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer Sports Writer 
It's here. Today marks the last day Consistency and reliability are two of March and the first day of Bookstore traits which one looks for in a leader. Basketball XVI, the world's largest When the Board of Trustees chose Fa­basketball tournament. ther Edward "Monk" Malloy as the 
next president of Notre Dame, they probably did not take a long look at hisBookstore 
involvement in Bookstore Basketball. Nevertheless, when the springtimeBasketball tournament rolls around, you can count on Malloy to be out there on the courtXVI and ready to play. 
Today's schedule, page 10

Recent chilly weather has not kept students off the courts, as 662 teams gear up for four weeks of basketball to In the past 15 years of Bookstore Bas be culminated when the Bookstore Bas­ketball XVI champion is crowned on the Sunday of An Tostal. The tourna­ticipated in the tournament 14 ment ·will begin today with the 6th an­nual Hall of Fame game at 4 p.m. on Bookstore Court 9. 
The Hall of Fame game will feature Steve Beuerlein and Mike Kovaleski didn't play that year." the return of The Esophagus Constric-will return to defending champion Lee's Malloy's team is called, BBQ in this year's Bookstore Basket­see BOOKSTORE, page 10 ball Tournament. Brian O'Gara see MALLOY, page 11 

The Observer/Jim Carroll 
previews the tournament and looks at Monk Malloy's participation in the tour­ney. 



