Windy
/ACCENT: Letters to a Lonely God 
Cool and cloudy with a 30 per­
cent chance of showers. High 
in the low and mid 50s. Cool

IVIEWPOINT: Alcohol policy debate Friday night. 



FRIDAY OCTOBER 2 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Worst earthquake since 1971 strikes California 
Associated Press The U.S. geological Survey 
said the quake registered 6.1 on 
LOS ANGELES -A severe the Richter scale, making it the earthquake and 16 major after­strongest to hit the Los Angeles shocks rumbled across the area since the 6.4 Sylmar quake area Thursday, destroying of 1971 that killed 64 people. buildings, damaging hundreds The tremor sent thousands of houses, closing freeways and into the streets as buildings setting off dozens of fires. At were temporarily evacuated. least five people were killed Landmark buildings dating to and more than 100 injured. Spanish colonial times were 

New officers elected in SMC run-off 
By LINDA BAILY 
News Staff 
Amy Panish and Molly Bringardner came 
from behind t~ win the Saint Mary's Freshmen 
election with a 53 percent majority in a run-off 
election yesterday, according to elections 
commissioner Frannie Thompson. 
They defeated the ticket of Natacha Doyle 
and Jackie Brody by 6 percent in the run-off 
election. 
Slightly more than 50 percent of the fresh­
men voted in the election Tuesday. The top 
two tickets were forced into a run-off when 
neither got a majority. 
Before the election, Frannie Thompson and 
freshmen advisors, Julie Wagner and Kelly 
Glavin decided the council would consist of 
fourteen members including the president and 
vice president. 
Of the 14 possible spots in the board, eight 
were filled by students who were not on the 
winning presidential ticket. 
The 1987 Freshmen council members are 
Jackie Brody, Christ"ine Demerino, Natacha 
Doyle, Patty Heeney, Kristen Izydor, Lisa Jilk, 
Tara Kearney, Courtney Kirk, Maria 
damaged, shattered glass and sen, a spokeswoman for Pres­other debris rained into the byterian Intercommunity street and a tall plume of Hospital, said 60 people were smoke from a shopping center treated for injuries. fire rose south of downtown. The quake hit at 7:42 a.m. 
Damage appeared to be local time, lasted 15 to 30 worst in Whittier, the closest seconds and was centered suburban area to the epicenter. about seven miles south­City officials said eight to ten southeast of Pasadena at the buildings collapsed, none of north end of the Whittier­them homes. Marsha Ander-Elsinore Fault. At least 16 af­tershocks measuring 3 or more on the Richter scale followed by late afternoon, and more were expected. 
Fire Chief Don Manning said the department had responded to 67 fires caused by natural gas leaks, 36 structural fires, 41 heart attacks and 21 elevators with people stuck in them, and 35 traffic accidents. 

Meyo Field, In the Loftus All-Sports Center, was the home 
Marczak, Maureen Novak, Jeni Racine, Kathy 
of Notre Dame's first indoor football practice of the season 
Schmidt.and Kellv Townsend. 
Wednesday afternoon. The facility still needs some finish-


Father-Daughter Weekend preparations underway 
By KATIE MCSHANE 
News Staff 
The fifth annual Senior Father-Daughter Weekend will kick off today with more than 500 expected to attend. 
"We're pretty excited about the weekend," said Father-Daughter Chairperson, Anne Farrel. 
Activities will include a "cocktail hour," various sports events, a barbeque, "Casino Night" and a Mass. 
Of these, Casino Night is par­ticularly popular, scheduled for Saturday. For this event Angela Athletic Facility will be furnished with card tables, roulette wheels and play money. Participants will be able to exchange raffle tickets for play money at the end of the evening. 
In addition, Jeff Roberts, as­sistant director of career and counseling at Saint Mary's will speak on, "Hiring Patterns of Liberal Arts Graduates." Also Dr. Rebecca Stoddart, a psy­chology professor at Saint Mary's will discuss "Father­Daughter Relationships: Prospects for The Future." Both are scheduled for Satur­day morning. 
"This will be a really special weekend for both fathers and daughters since many will be going out on their own next year," chairperson Anne Far­rel said. 
Government dept. announces new plagiarism policy 
By GREG LUCAS 
Senior Staff Reporter 
All government majors recently received a letter from Sharon O'Brien, undergradu­ate advisor, informing them of a new departmental policy re­garding plagiarism. 
The letter stated, " ... the department has established a departmental policy for 
plagiarism--failure  of  the  
course."  
The  new  policy  came  into  

being at the end of last year in response to an incident involv­ing three students, according to O'Brien. In this case, the stu­dents were required to rewrite their papers and were given failing grades for the assign­ment, but not for the course, said O'Brien. 
One additional case was de­termined to be plagiarism last year, after the policy had been formed, and the student was given a failing grade in the course, said O'Brien. 
According to O'Brien, there had been no set policy in the Government Department before last year regarding the penalty for plagiarism. "There is somewhat of an unwritten rule in the University that you fail the course" when found to 
have  commited  plagiarism,  
said O'Brien.  
O'Brien  added  that  before  

the policy, each case had been handled individually and there was some discrepancy in the punishments. 
"We felt that out of fairness to everyone, we should have a clear policy that is stated" said O'Brien, who said she originally proposed that the de­partment adopt a policy. 
"There was an increasing feeling (among the professors) that we should have a policy to deal with plagiarism as a de­partment" said O'Brien. The policy was formerly initiated by a vote by all members of the department, O'Brien said. 
"Much plagiarism is done from ignorance and not from malicious intent, but ignorance is not a defense" said O'Brien. 
The letter also contained a list of guidelines to help stu­dents determine what is and is not plagiarism. "Hopefully the letter will eliminate any new cases" said O'Brien. 
The penalty will only be im­plemented if an investigation by the Department's Honesty Committee finds that plagiarism has occurred, the letter said. The committee will be chaired by the undergradu­ate advisor, two appointed fac­ulty members and a student representative. 

page 2 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1987 

In Brief 
More than 100 people gathered on South quad early this morning to look for a UFO which was allegedly spotted in the sky above campus. Notre Dame Security said it received 10 to 15 reports of UFO sightings this morning between 12 a.m. and 1:30 a.m. South Bend Police said they also received reports of UFO citings this morning. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
A Spanish Liturgy will be held this Sunday, Oct. 4, at 4 p.m. in the Farley chapel. All are welcome to celebrate the Eucharist on the feast of St. Francis of Assisi. -The Observer 
Thank God It's Friday sponsored by the Sophomore Board, begins tomorrow from 3-5 p.m. at St. Mary's on the green between McCandless Hall and the library. Games will be organized. Free nachos and soft drinks will be provided. All sophomores are welcome. N.D. students need co-ex tickets for dinner. -The Observer 
Father Griffin's weekly program "The Children's Hour," heard at 11 a.m. on WSND-FM on Saturdays, is currently presenting the BBC serializations of Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings." This Saturday's program is the second of the 13 programs dramatizing Tolkien's classic about hobbits on an epic journey. -The Observer 
R.C.I.A. begins: the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults will begin Sunday, Oct. 4 in the Campus Ministry Conference Room in Badin Hall All those inquiring about Catholicism as well as students wanting to be sponsors should attend. For more information, contact Sr. Pat McCabe, C.S.C., anytime at 239-5242.-The Observer 
Crop Walk sign-ups will take place the week of Oct. 5 in the dorms and dining halls. The Crop Walk, for the hungry of South Bend and the world, will take place on Sunday, Oct. 11, from 2-5 p.m. at St. Joseph High School. 
-The Observer 
College Fellow event will be held tonight at 6:45p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite. It will feature a brief discussion on the movie "Radio Days," led by Professor James Peterson. -The Observer 
The South Bend Police Department will hold a unclaimed property and bicycle auction starting at 8:30 
a.m. on Saturday, Oct. 3, at the rear of the Police Station in the Street Department garage. The sale will conclude at 12:30 p.m. The auction will take place rain or shine. Nl purchases must be made in cash. -The Observer 
Urban Plunge registration continues today through Friday, Oct. 9 at 3 p.m. Registration packets are available at Notre Dame from the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry (Badin Hall or library), and at Saint Mary's from the Office of Justice Education (Room 128 or 159 Madeleva Hall) and Campus Ministry (Regina Hall). For more information, call Dan Keusal at 239-7943. -The Observer 
Red Cross volunteers needed to work National Cross Country meets at the golf course today at 1,2,3 and 4 p.m. Volunteers should go to the golf shop anytime between 1 and 4 p.m. All volunteers --new and old --are welcome to work. For information, call Bill at 2333. -The Observer 
Last chance for Red Cross volunteers who need to be certified in First Aid will be Saturday, Oct. 10 from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in room 218 Rockne. Workbooks must be picked up and completed before class. Books will be available from Dave Ragan in the Issue Room on Sunday, Oct. 4 from 6-11 p.m. For information, contact Brother Lou at 239-6321 or 239-7053. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................... Matt Breslin Design Assistant ............. Allison Cochs Typesetters ..................... Shawn Sexton News Editor... .. Chris Julka Copy Editor .... . .. .... .. .... ...... Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor. .... .. .. Marty Strasen ..................................... Steve Megargee 
ne 011eener (USPS S99 2.-.clOO) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. ne oa-rvu is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for s..a per year (S2S per semester) by writina ne OlllerYu, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46,6. 
ne ~-is a member of ne .u.odaled Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout ................. Julie Ryan Accent Copy Editor .. ..... Mike Naughton Typists.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Jean Conlon ......................................... Cathy Haynes NO Day Editor ........ Greg Lucas Photographer ........ Mike Moran 

Some seniors still have another year to go 

Earlier this week I had a long conversation with one of my roommates from last year. Since he moved off-campus I don't see him too much. Anyway, after we caught up on past and future girlfriends, how bad all our classes were, and whether we'd be seeing an undefeated football squad in Miami, the conversation rolled around to next year. 
"Headed to law school?" I asked. 
"Yeah, it looks that way. I'll still be back for football, though." 
"Well, you can crash on my couch next year." 
It seems funny saying that, considering we're both seniors. 
While he and most of my classmates (95 percent, I think) are getting diplomas next May, I will be in the audience watching, no doubt a little teary-eyed. As a five-year Aerospace-Psychology major, I will be back for a second senior year. 
There are 30 or so of us, I am told, plus the architecture majors who spent a year in Rome. The archies all know each other, though. There's a group of people to hang out with that they know fairly well and can reminisce about freshman year with. Not so with us five-year 
majors, though. Five-year students outside of architecture rarely are in the same classes and do not have many opportunities to meet one another. 
I don't mean to imply that we are social recluses. Far from it, as we get to meet twice as many people because we take classes in two colleges. But most students know the people in their own class best. After next May, our class is 30 people. 
The five-year student leads a difficult life at times. Credit loads are high, with 18 being common and 21 not unlikely. Courses tend to be scheduled on top of each other since Arts and Letters doesn't try to schedule its courses around Engineering, or vice versa. Advisors for us don't seem to exist, since Engineering has us on file as Arts and Letters majors and Arts and Letters can't tell us much about ME328 -Differential Equations. We have fallen through the cracks in the Notre Dame system. 
People always seem to think double majors are weird, too. If I hear one more joke about psychoanalyzing astronauts I will probably hit somebody. 
Five-year students are thrown off campus by University Housing. Of course a fifth year of dorm life would probably sicken even the most chaste college student, but it is rather 
CONCERT WILL BE PERFORMED IN-THE-ROUND WITH STAGE IN THE CENTER OF THE ARENA All SEATS RESERVED $16.00 TICKETS GO ON SALE TOMORROW FOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS/FACULTY /STAFF. TICKET SALE WILL BE HELD Al GATE 3 OF THE J.A.C.C. (FIELD HOUSE DOME). NO ONE MAY ASSEMBLE BEFORE 6:00 A.M. 
FOR THOSE ASSEMBLED BY 8:00 A.M., A DRAWING FOR POSITION IN LINE WILL BE CONDUCTED. THOSE COMING AFTER 8:00 A.M. WILL BE POSITIONED IN LINE AFTER THE 8:011 A.M. DRAWING. LIMIT FOUR (4) TICKETS PER PURCHASE. UNIVERSITY 1.0. REQUIRED (TICKET SALE FOR THE PUBLIC WILL TAKE PLACE AT GATE 10 OF J.A.C.C.-ARENA DOME). 
Mark Me Laughlin 
Projects Manager 
disconcerting to be thrown out of the dorm after all the people you'd room off-campus with have all graduated. 
The worst part, though, is the knowledge that, while my colleagues all take off for law school or med school or jobs in "the real world," I will be coming back for another year of dining halls and snow. It is strange to see my friends walking to job interviews in three-piece suits and hear them talking about LSAT's and the CPA exam and med school applications. 
Sure, I sit and laugh and say "I'm glad I can skip all these interviews and hang around for a national championship next fall." But I imagine that sounds a little hollow. 
I can't honestly say I regret choosing the five-year option. I could never handle four years of solid engineering, and I don't love psychology enough to do that for the rest of my life. The double major has given me a breadth of courses and a wealth of options once I finally do leave. Five years of school meant I could go to London for foreign study, and I wouldn't have missed that for the world. 
It's tough to stay behind, though. I'm sure that next year it won't seem like such a big deal, and I don't lose sleep over it now. But it's already starting to occur to me that I've got a long year to go after this one. 


BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
JAM PRESENTS 


LEPPARD 
with special guest 

TESLA 

TUES. OCT. 27th 7: 30 pm Joyce A.C.C. 
Friday, October 2, 1987 The Observer page 3 

Security Beat 
Wednesday 
12:32 a.m.: An off-campus stu­dent reported being nearly struck by a vehicle which ran a stop sign on Dorr Road. 
12:58 a.m.: A hall monitor re­ported that Farley Hall resident fell off the top bunk of her bed, hurting her back. She was transported to to the St. Joseph Emergency Room for treat­ment. 2:30p.m.: Security was called to investigate a minor traffic ac­cident at the post office. Damage is estimated at $25. 
7:55 p.m.: A Stanford Hall res­ident reported that he lost a dark blue wallet at the Rockne Memorial sometime between 5 
p.m. and 6 p.m. Contents in­cluded license and credit cards. 
The wallet and contents are valued at $25. 
Thursday 
8:40 a.m.: A University staff member reported that her car had been vandalized while parked in the A-15 lot. Damage is estimated at $150. 
8:58 a.m.: A visitor found an Ohio drivers license and other indentification on the floor of the JACC. Value is estimated at $5. 
10:58 a.m.: A Lewis Hall resi­dent reported a dark blue book­bag taken from Stepan Center sometimes between 8 a.m. and 
9:30 a.m. Among the contents were books, credit cards, and checks. The bookbag and con­tents are valued at $84. 


Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday 
Notre Dame Security at Stepan Center. Notre Dame Security periodically auctions off property 
thrqugh Observer advertising. 
they have recovered that has not been claimed
Call239-5303 for details. 
by Its rightful owner. 
Main -quad being excavated 

By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
Since Monday workers have been digging on the Main Quad in order to install a new air con­
lUJ)~lllirdL JJ/k~ tlxJ JtlOIJ11iJJ!Tldl fl)fJlll 
ffro rwtJ]flJIZ !fDWl rcrD,fUJJ~ 
ditioning system in Sacred Heart Church, as part of the
(/JlJJM/i IJJJmtLU}f0ll11Jir1icefftMJ f WO 
dayJ l!atiy tVJuh .§i§j~ 
--=~;---, 
Tickets to NO I USC Game 
I

.6J@.([!]<JJ([ilJTl r OPEN 12.=30-5:30 
contact 
1 

Mike Kelly (312)565-5959 
I

./"\ONDAY ~ SA'nJRDA'Y R3 
From 9-5, M-F
..-..~,.-,c ______
j 

MANUFACTURERS HANK 
Manufacturers Bank will be on campus to present career opportunities in Commercial Lending 
MondayJ October 5 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Morris Inn -Notre Dame Rm. 
Please see Placement Office for further details. 
current renovation of the build­ing. 
"They're installing a chilled water line to Sacred Heart Church for the air conditioning system," said Gary Shumaker, assistant director of the physi­cal plant. 
"(The digging) is supposed to be completed before the Southern Cal game," said Shumaker, "It's supposed to be completed no later than the week of fall break." 
The excavation of the ground is several feet deep and extends for several yards between LaFortune Student Center and Sacred Heart Church. 
Shumaker said that the ex­cavation was started Monday so that the digging would take place between the inauguration of Father Edward Malloy and the four week string of home football games, starting with the USC game on Oct. 24, when the University has a large amount of visitors. 
·----------•Store Coupon•---------•1 
II 

4 Foot and 6 Foot 
I Giant Submarine Sandwiches 
I I Present this coupon at time of purchase and receive a I $3.00 Discount
II Please call to order in County1advance 277-8694 
II 

Marliet 
SAVE TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS 
I $~ 00 5901 N. Grape Road
I V • 

Buyers Market Place I Mishawaka, IN 46545 
~-------------------------­
Ir----------------,
I CLUB 23 iI 
1  Giannetto's stuffed pizza is back  1  
I  Friday Special  I  
I  $1.00 OFF Pizzas  I  
I1  F .eatunng  our  d ,. .e IC/ous  p·1zza,  I1  

I Sandwiches, Dinners, II Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava.l 1 Beer and Wine served. 
1 
I 234-3541 I I 5pm-2am 1' I
I I
Food til 1Qpm II.
I II
Monday-Saturday1 Dine In or Carry Out 
I 744 N. Notre Dame CUJI u Large Groups & Clubs Welcome
I----------------I 
p~a~g~e~4____________________________________________________T~h~e~O~b~s~e~~~e~r___________________________________________Friday, October2, 1987 
HAPPY 19 MARK BAUMGARTNER. You are such a hot STUD! !I From your Mates
Reagan urges vigilance PERSONALS] 
at 611. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The White House denied Thursday that President Reagan advocates reconstituting the congres­sional subversives committees of the McCarthy era, even though Reagan suggested there is growing Communist in­fluence in Congress and in the media. 
In an interview with the Washington Times, Reagan said he fears people in this country have dropped their guard against Communist sub­version and said this sort of vigilance has become "unfas­hionable." 
"There is a disinformation campaign, we know, worldwide," the president said, "and that disinformation is very sophisticated and is very successful, including with a great many in the media and the press in America." 
Chief spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Reagan, a onetime witness before the now-defunct House Committee on Un-American Activities, was "not calling for any new (Communist-hunting) organi­zations. He's just pointing out the historic development of Communist influence in America and some of the manifestations of it." 
"I don't think the press corps need feel like their reputation is blackened by this," Fitzwater added. 
But he also said Reagan "believes that the Communists have influence through various disinformation techniques and 
~ J.P.'S PIZZA ~ FREE DELIVERY
* 
* 
plans and programs ... and that has influence on the Congress, on the public, on the press, and on everybody." 
Questions about Reagan's beliefs were raised at the daily news briefing after the Times on Wednesday published Reagan's interview with its Editor-In-Chief, Arnaud de Borchgrave. 
In that interview, Reagan was asked to comment on an article, published earlier, in which some conservatives in Congress voiced concern about they saw as a growing leftist influence on Capitol Hill. 
Reagan was asked to com­ment on statements made by Reps. Newt Gingrich of Geor­gia, Bob Dornan of California 

and Bill McCollom of Florida, own people, that you'reall Republicans, complaining depending on to support you,"of "hard-left members of the the president said. "And it's no 
House who are now acting as fun, but it's true." 
Ave. Delivery Time 25-30 min. 
* 
234-4.151 ! 
* ~  2-14", 4 item pizzas  !*  
~  w1 free x-cheese-$1 0.56  ~  
~  2-16", 4 item pizzas  ~  
~  w1 free x-cheese-$13.75  !  
*  *  
!_ Houm: ;_ Mon-l·hurs 11-11* Fri-Sat 11am-1am  WHAT A DEAL!  :* *  

: Sun 3-10 1511 Portage 
*********************************** 
pro-Soviet agents of influ­ence." 
Reagan replied, "Well, ... that is a problem that we have to face." 
"Remember, there was once a Congress in which they had a committee that would inves­tigate even one of their own members if it was believed that that person had Communist in­volvement or Communist leanings. Well, they've done away with those committees," he said. "That shows the suc­cess of what the Soviets were able to do in this country with making it unfashionable to be anti-Communist." 
"So you have to be careful in opposing them, to not trigger that reaction on the part of your 
continued from page B 
Darren K.-What do you remember from SYR? -the reindeer 
There's no place like home! There's no place like home! Help! I need a ride home and back from Cols.,O.H., for Oct. break Will help pay gas $. Call KIM C2697 
COLLEEN Happy (late) 3rd annlver· saryl Hope we have 300 more Love, Dave 
To Tom and Dan: Yes, these personals are quite interesting, but our lunch has become quite boring. TALK TO ME !!I -The girl sitting next to you 
KEITH-Feel free to iron your hat at our place anytime! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! Love, the Farley Trio 
BEX You're a crazy kook! Thanks for all the support--STOP!!! 
MUSH 
1 need a ride to and from KANSAS for FALL BREAK. will pay for ALL GAS!!! John 1374 
Happy Birthday Fool!!! We hope your 21st Is as good as your 20th was. Maybe this time you'll re­member It! Have a great 8-day! Love, Your roomies (MK,T,M.Pooh and 
Scooby) 
for all of you who have been wondering why these personals to JENNIFER FREIDHOFF keep appearing in the paper, it is because her 21st Birthday is Saturday' you only have to wait until mid­
night.. 
CALL HER AT 3027 AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY'!! RUSH STREET, HERE WE COME!!! 
BOB WELCH IS THE BEST LOOKING GUY AT NO. 
I'M LOOKING FOR A RIDE TO NJ FOR OCT. BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRI. AFTER­NOON. OCT. 16. PLEASE CALL 284­5145. 
TOM GORMLEY rs OUR loveslave. Keep your hands off our man. PE chics. The 3 Amigos 

Theodore's presents TONIGHT at Theodore's 9:00pm FREE ADMISSION  



Viewpoint
Friday, October 2, 1987 
page 5 
Students lacking in responsibility 

Alcohol policy in need of review 
The other day, I was chatting with Jennifer, my sister, and Joe, both Law students here at Notre Dame. Some­how, we got on the subject of the Cath­olic Church's stand on artificial means of birth control, and I was asked for my opinion. I said that I was in favor of the Church's stand. At the time, though, my thoughts were muddled and I seemed to sound like a narrow­minded reactionary. But I realized that it all has to do with taking responsibility for one's actions. Naturally, people have sex for pleasure, but one cannot forget the possible consequence of preg­nancy. Birth control seems to me to be somewhat like putting a silencing device on a shotgun; it allows one to act irresponsibly without taking the consequences. 
Andrea Burman 
guest column 
Responsibility is something good which is rapidly becoming extinct. This is a "me" generation, and we want it all -without paying the price. The stu­dent body of Notre Dame (in general> is a perfect example of this, especially regarding the alcohol policy. I read the policy word for word and did not un­derstand why I didn't see the ugly face of opression glaring back at me. I even felt a little guilt (God forbid) for being among the lone supporters of the Alco­hol Policy. It has, would you believe, the audacity to tell the students to take responsibility! How dare the blood­thirsty administration impose such tyranny on us poor, weakling students who are here only for the simple pleasures of the joys of learning! And yet, I actually agree with it. 
If the University wanted a dry campus, alcohol would be banned. It is not; alcohol is very present on this campus, at times like a festering boil. As it is, in fact, we seem to be excep­tions to Indiana State Law. The policy says that irresponsible drinking will be punished, just like any other irrespon­sible behavior. No one is saying not to drink. If the alcohol policy is hindering your fun on campus, then you have big problems (anti-social behavior and al­coholism instantly come to mind -a 
The individual does.) If you can't be happy and carefree without alcohol, then I suggest you leave this institution and head straight for Alcoholics Anonymous. I don't shun those whoop­pose the alcohol policy, yet if you do oppose it, I ask you to look at yourself to see if your opposition stems from a refusal to drink responsibly. I would safely say that one-third of this campus is either alcoholic or heading in that direction. 
I had a bad experience with alcohol here at Notre Dame but I learned just how easy it is to lose control and there­fore how challenging it is to be respon­sible for my action. I agree with Jean Paul Sartre, who said that there are no excuses; we consciously choose all our actions, good and bad. It is time that the students here take responsibility and stop blaming the University for all their woes. 
Andrea Burman is a junior English major. 
A few years ago, the administration implemented an alcohol policy. Al­though I did not have the privilege to attend the University before the policy was put into effect, I heard all the stories from the seniors I lived with my freshman year. During those years before the policy there must have been a problem with alcohol abuse for some of the students or the University would not have come up with such a policy. But after a few years of the policy being put into effect, it is obvious to me that it has not worked. It has created more problems than it had attempted to solve. 
John Bodrozic 
guest column 
First of all, the problem of students abusing alcohol has not been solved by the policy. The administration has to realize that students will find a way to drink. Rules, such as no open contain­ers in the hallways or section parties, will not prevent alcohol abuse among the students. The University should try to promote a program which stresses responsible social drinking, rather than banning it. 
It is obvious to me that the policy has almost banned social drinking on campus and forced the students to go off-campus for social activities. This is an obvious fact which can be seen every weekend by the number of students at Campus View, Turtle Creek, and many student houses. This off-campus drink­ing has created many problems which might not have arisen if the alcohol policy had not directed social life off­campus. Some of the problems include strained relations between student 
Garry Trudeau 
llXJK!P.IORUJ IAIAR lD. AT A GLANCE/ 
\ 

houses and neighboring houses because of loud music and parties. Then the police get into the act by raiding student houses and arresting students who are minors. Now the cited students have to pay the price for looking for social al­ternatives away from the campus. I don't know about other states, but in California when student parties get out of hand, the police break up the parties, but no one is arrested or cited; every­one is told to leave and that is it. 
Next, because the students go off­campus, they have to drive which presents the problem of drinking and driving. Because more students go off­campus to drink, the chances of people drinking and driving is greater. Don't get me wrong, the alcohol policy should not be to blame for people drinking and driving, but I think it increases the chances of it happening. 
It also appears to me that the admin­istration is quite hypocritical in its policy. If it is a Saturday afternoon on the day of a home football game, stu­dents drink freely among many of the alumni all around the campus and stadium. But next Saturday when the football team is playing away, if stu­dents are drinking on Green Field, then they are almost assured a visit to the Office of Student Affairs for violating the alcohol policy. Is there something wrong here? 
I don't know all the answers, but I think the University should try to treat the students like young adults and realize that in our society today, stu­dents are going to drink. I also feel that a serious review of the alcohol policy is needed because it did not solve the problems it was designed for, and it created some serious new ones. 
John Bodrozic is a junior in the College of Engineering. 
Campus Quote 

"The measure of a teacher's success is whether his students live their lives differently because they shared part of it with him." 
Lee Tavis Class of 1953 
P.O. Box Q 
with the boys."

No need to print Looks painful in larger print now, doesn't it? So why did I find this in the sexist classifieds Observer at all? Surely there must be some standards for the advertisements Dear Editor: which you will accept. And don't raise I have long since accepted the the "free speech" argument when youproposition that Notre Dame has a are obviously offending an entire class sexist environment. Ft:male friends of people. If you received an ad which voice this complaint to me constantly. compared black people to white people Many seem to be wearied and in a similar way, would you print it? I demoralized by the problem. Lately, I, hope not. But you will print an ad which too, have realized that I have become compares women to an alcoholic bev­a bit jaded. So why am I writing? erage. <I suspect its author has abused 
The Classifieds section in the Septem­both for so long that he no longer dis­ber 29 Observer contained the following tinguishes between them.) exhortation: "Join the real men on If I concluded that the struggle
campus, the ones who hate women." A against sexism at Notre Dame is a lost person calling himself Bill revealed to cause, would I be wrong? Probably not. us that he is "looking for a love toy to But if there are some people out there, 
spend his money." Other Neanderthals especially men, who would like to con­
advised us why "beer is better than wo­vince me otherwise, I would like to see men": because "you never have to your ideas sent to this space.wine and dine a beer," and because "a beer will sit patiently in the car while 
Timothy J. Power 
you play softball or while you go out 
Off-campus 
Doonesbury 
8lfTPJHATA80lfTI.JSA TDMORRIJMI' CHUK OlfT THE 80NU5 PUU-(){ff '5CCT!fl'.J ON()(JRR/TfJ~! 5et 1-&! 
Viewpoint
page 6 Friday, October 2, 1987 
Gulf incident supports stated policy 
1'11 admit it. I was one of those hy­percritical anti-Reaganists who ap­peared late this summer when the Ad­ministration announced the reflagging of 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers. Caught up in the mob mentality of further bashing an already battered president, I con­sidered the move folly. 
Matthew Slaughter 
and another thing 
In many respects it was. Not by choice did the administration decide to reflag the tankers, but rather by black­mail. If we had refused, Kuwait would have turned north and gotten the more than eager USSR to do the job. In­creased Soviet presence in the Persian Gulf is totally unacceptable, ergo ... Another textbook example of United States foreign policy reacting, not in­itiating. Then the supertanker Bridgeton struck a mine, and we sages eagerly chorused to the world a con­descending "I told you so." But Reagan persisted --and the events of the past few days have borne fruit for both the policy and other international issues. 
Night had fallen on the Persian Gulf a few days ago when the Iranian vessel Iran Ajr slipped out of port at Bandar Abbas. It sailed not alone --some 30 miles away three U.S. warships secretly watched its every move on radar. The vessel proceded directly toward the north-east, directly toward major international shipping lanes. Two OH-6A helicopters lifted off the USS Jarrett to investigate ... and oh my. 
At midnight local time the pilot spotted the vessel's crew "dropping ob­jects overboard which appeared to be mines." Without warning the helicop­ters openned up with a hail of rocket and machine gun fire. Hours later, as the ship listed dead in the water, US Navy SEAL commandos scrambled aboard and hit jackpot: nine primitive mines remained aboard, undropped. 
P.O. Box Q 
Community thanked for loving support 
To the Notre Dame Community: 
On behalf of my sister and all mem­bers of my family I express my deep gratitude to all of you for your prayers and support since the death of my par­ents. I regret that it is not possible to thank each one of you individually, but I hope this letter will convey to you how much all that you have done has meant to us these past three weeks. 
When word of the all-night vigils, the prayers, and Masses on the campus reached us, we were deeply moved. The power of prayer was very evident to me personally as I was able to get through some very difficult times be­cause of all of the prayers coming from this campus. 
All of the Masses, flowers, cards, notes, and words of sympathy and sup­port have been truly overwhelming. Even when words would not come, it was sufficient just to know that all of you cared, and that you were there with your prayers and concern. Mom and The Iranian crew was detained and later turned over to the Red Crescent, the crippled ship was blown out of the water by US ships, never to plant mines in international waters again. 
Finally, the United States' goal in sending some 40 ships to the gulf had produced tangible results to silence critics like me. Our stated policy goal has always been to aid in maintaining the free passage of merchant vessels through the gulf. How quickly we forget that as leader of the free world, the 
U.S. often must assume such roles. Tasks such as this may appear point­less to many --we aren't really doing anything, they will say, except inviting attack. Such errant opinions overlook a crucial reality of international rela­tions today: with the growing worldwide repulsion to war, the projec­tion, not utilization, of power takes precedence. 
The United States cannot cower from such obligations. Isolationist ten­dencies pull hard, but cannot restrain us. By sending our ships to the gulf, we send a clear message to the world com­munity; namely, that the seven-year bloodbath between Iran and Iraq can­not spill into the gulf and affect inter­national free trade. It's always lonely at the top, and this situation proved no different. Initially, the gulf states refused assistance from our forces, and our European allies, who have such a penchant for castrating the U.S. in public while crawling to it in private, refused military support. Now the gulf states warmly offer help, and no less than five European countries have quietly (surprise) sent contingencies. The Iran Ajr incident has provided con­crete evidence for those shortsighted of us that our presence in the gulf is both necessary and valuable. 
The incident has yielded good in an­other way. Consider Iran for a moment. I care not what nationality, creed, sex, or sign you are; if you hold any em­pathy for the government of the Ayatol­lah Khomeini, I hold nothing but con­tempt for you. Since seizing power in 1979, the regime has contributed not thing one to the betterment of the world. Consider some of the shennanigans Iran has recently dabbled in: inciting riots in Mecca which killed some 400 pilgrims, kidnapping Americans and others in Lebanon, bombing the Marine compound and leaving 243 dead ... the list seems endless. Time and time again, evidence in the wake of terrorist strikes has pointed in the direction of, but never directly at, Iran. 
My, how things have changed with the Iran Ajr's "smoking gun." How did the Iranians respond to being caught in the act? Like any other defense of the weak, their response abounded with lies and rhetoric. They labeled the Iran Ajr a merchant ship and denounced the charges of laying mines as ''a pack of lies." And the Iranian President Ali Khameni took the opportunity of speak­ing to the UN General Assembly to denounce the organization as "a paper factory for issuing worthless and inef­fective orders." The U.S. delegation rightly stormed out of the assembly as Khameni's drivel droned on without end. 
Governments which exhibit such a flagrant and repeated indifference to the established international order and organizations have no right to exist. The Khomeini government does noth­ing but pose a continuous threat to peace and stability in the Middle East and beyond. As of late, perhaps the world governments are finally aban­doning their ridiculous attempts to es­tablish ties with Iranian moderates (the definitive oxymoron) in the name of na­tional interests, and are realizing ces­sation of Iran's antics is in the interest of all. Witness the mounting drive in the UN for an arms embargo against Iran. Here a true opportunity exists to isolate Iran, one which should not frit­ter away. 
And the Iran Ajr incident has proven beneficial in yet another way. Stop for a moment and consider the general con­dition of America as of late. We have definitely seen better days; our position 

Dad truly loved this place, and their belief in Notre Dame would have been reaffirmed by the way the Notre Dame family came together in a time of per­sonal tragedy. 
It is good to be back home with you, and to share with you the many chal­lenges and excitement that await us in the months ahead. As these months pass, know how much your prayers will help, and how much it means to me to be a part of this Notre Dame family. Be assured of my prayers for all of you. 
(Rev.! E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. Executive Vice President 
Criticism crucial to genuine growth 
Dear Editor: 

Last Monday's letters to the editor suggest a need for greater sensitivity toward fellow students. Eileen Doherty raised this point quite eloquently in her protest against the sexist comments which appeared in a Cavanaugh Hall window. Unfortunately, examples of sexism are abundant on this campus: in attitudes, language, grafitti in the library, and sometimes in Observer columns and cartoons. 
Speaking of insensitivity, since when is William Joseph Sammon the arbiter of valid sentiments? He may be right that the "Life in Hell" cartoon was in­tended to satirize rather than condone prejudice and stereotypes, but he does not help to improve the environment which minority students have encoun­tered here by claiming that people who found the cartoon offensive are "vociferous prigs" for expressing their opinions. 
Also troubling was David Spach's response to a letter from a freshman who was disillusioned by his first few weeks at college. I thought the earlier letter was poignant, and accurate in some of its observations. Granted, it was a bit melodramatic to use the dome as a personal symbol that things would improve. Such sentimentality pervades this campus, so perhaps it was helpful for Mr. Spach to warn a new student to keep it in perspective. 
Indeed, Mr. Spach began compas­sionately: "we can all appreciate the as a world leader has slipped. Every time we ask the West Germans and Ja­panese to expand their economies and thereby reduce our trade deficit, they scoff at us with indignation. The glory days of our space program have vaporized along with the Challenger, leaving the less spectacular but more reliable Soviet program far ahead in methodically pioneering space. In the Ryder Cup matches last week the Europeans snatched from us the title -­not even the Golden Bear could rally our linksmen. And we have by no means helped ourselves. Ollie North and his boys' cake and Bible bearing escapades made our government the headline act for the world audience. 

The Iran Ajr incident provided our government --and Americans on the whole--with a much needed lift. Amidst all the innuendos, uncertainties, and frustrations of daily foreign affairs, here appeared an incident which clearly provided a hero and a villain -­and America got to play the hero. As long as we do not digress to xenophobic extremes, feeling proud about America can go a long way. 
Thus American foreign policy benefited greatly from the Iran Ajr in­cident. But before we slap our backs too often, take a quick glance at Tues­day's Business section of the Chicago Tribune. "The United States imported more oil from Iran in July than any other country except Nigeria, accor­ding to the Commerce Department ... (some) 637,000 barrels of oil a day." We condemn their war effort, then pro­vide the badly needed currency to finance it. Will the United States ever develop a coherent, consistent policy toward anything? Someday. Just re­member the words of those lovable lads from Liverpool: "I have to admit it's getting better, a little better all the time." 
Matthew Slaughter is a sophomore gov­ernment/economics major and an As­sistant Viewpoint Editor. 
mixed feelings of a freshman." Yet switching to condescension, he declared that the complaints of the "petulant 18-year old" were not "of serious concern." 
Next Mr. Spach made the unjusti­fiable claim that The Observer should not be "the forum for his (the fresh­man's) emotionally charged question­ing of what the university has to offer.'' How kind! A guy feels lonely, in­decisive, and not quite part of this "Notre Dame family," and his peer belittles him for being "emotional'' and suggests that his opinions are not worth printing. 
Campus newspapers are not intended to be extensions of college booster clubs. Moreover, a university is not great merely because its students con­stantly tell each other that it is. Notre Dame is a great university in many ways, but let's not forget that criticism­-especially by newcomers who still have some objectivity--is crucial if a univer­sity is to grow and adapt. 
Nancy Powers Off-campus 
General Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ........ ............................ Chris Bednarski Advertising Mc;nager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accyrately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor .............................................Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1968 
----------------------------, 
Friday, October 2, 1987 page 7 
Accent 
What did you think when you read the funnies? 
J 
esse Jackson at a youth conference must be the most charismatic preacher in the world today. He makes a liturgy out of telling It as it is, involving his listeners in a litany which they recite after him: "I am. Somebody. I am Somebody. Down with dope. Up with hope. My mind. Is a pearl. Is a pearl. I can learn 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Holden feels overpowered by the evil in the world. He's so tired of obcenities at this point. it would madden him to read "F--k you" in a rhyming diction­ary. 
I don't want to poor-mouth 
the Black students I am anx­
ious to defend. They don't 
come here from the backwoods 
of Tennessee; they're a number 
of gene5ations away from living 
in Uncle Tom's cabin. Every 
student here has a separate 
history. Nobody can be a 
catcher in the rye, saving the 
children from a fall into the 
awareness of good and evil. 
Young eyes will always find the 
graffiti that the perverts have 
left for them. I can imagine a black freshman, street-wise and sensitive, hoping that he or she has come to the greener pas­ture on the other side of the fence. 
Notre Dame, the freshman is told, is a special place, free of the ordinary tensions common to the jungle. Then he or she reads a possible putdown in the college magazine, and feels that the insults are everywhere. Like "F--k you" in the rhyming dictionary, the context doesn't matter. The white brother can tell him that the slur is no put­down and shouldn't be re­garded as a personal insult. The white brother shouldn't be so quick to deny the Black his right to feel pain; this is sensi­tivity; this may even be justice: to try to walk a mile in your brother's moccasins, before telling him his pain is silly. 
The Notre Dame blacks will not be spared the pain of the real world. They didn't come here to be fitted with blinders, or a cocoon to hide in that will save them from jolts. Some Notre Dame Blacks are trying to interiorize what their leaders are telling them: "Nobody will save us for us but us. I am Somebody. My mind is a pearl." White students need to learn the lesson too: Black and yellow, red and white/All are precious in God's sightA1is eye is on the children of the world. 
What do Black students know of the Black experience in America? Jews keep the memory of the Holocaust alive: if the horror of the death camps is forgotten, the Jews say, the death camps could be repeated, and another Hitler is possible. That is why the Jews want to keep the conscience of mankind sensitive to the memory of the 6 million vic­tims. 
The tragedy of Blacks in American is not over. Every­thing ugly happening in the country hits the Black youth hardest: unemployment. drugs, teen-age pregnancy, disease, crime, the squalor of slum life. Black youth are the first to be­come school dropouts, the first to be drafted in time of war. They don't have to be reminded or horror by holocaust committees. The bad things that hurt them aren't happening in another country a half a century ago. Blacks are hurt by the everyday ine­qualities in America the beauti­ful. 
Recently, a student showed me a lapel button he borrowed from his father. The button identified the wearer as a member of SPONGE, an acronym for the "Society For The Prevention Of Negroes Get­ting Everything." My mention of SPONGE may be more unset­tling than any racial allusion the Scholastic has ever printed. The SPONGE button was con­sindered funny jback in the Civil Rights Days of the Sixties. It's re-appearance now is a sign of how prejudice carries over from one generation to an­other. 
Will the Black children at­tending schools in the inner­city grow up in a happier life­style than their grandparents knew? Will the smell of poverty, the homes without enough love in them because one parent is missing. the 
"The white bro­ther shouldn't be so quick to deny the Black his right to feel pain." 
street smarts that passes for wisdom, the drugs, the sexual climate, the inferior education, leave them unscathed? Not un­less a moral miracle happens; and if it doesn't happen, we will have more of the same. 
Are you a tacit supporter of the fear behind SPONGE, jealous, for a number of reasons, of the minorities that you feel are trying to inherit the earth, at least on the bas­ketball court or football field? Do you lack any passion for social justice anxious to see that Black and Hispanic lives are not wasted by ignorance and ugliness on city blocks where innocence is swallowed up by violence, and kids of 17 are a hundred years old? Is your mind full of bromides about Black people who make something of themselves being as good as you are, but why do so few of them try to be a credit to their race, and why do Blacks still tend to be losers, now that they have the vote? Do you stereotype Blacks in a way that degrades them, and excuses you from believing that Black tragedy is American tragedy, which diminishes not only them, but you? 
Is this mere rah-rah talk from a priest in his easy chair? A writer like Faulkner believes with good reason that America as the New Eden was cursed from the beginning by the new settlers' treatment of the Indi­ans and the introduction of slavery. As citizens of a land under a curse, are Americans free of the responsibility of working to regain the original blessing? Mere tolerance doesn't do anything to redress grievances in a rich land where children, most of them black, go to bed hungry, and slum dwellers, to survive, have to become welfare cheats. Who dreams dreams the size of Mar­tin Luther King's dream? Who, hearing King's dream, doesn't shrug it off as an impossible dream? 

A moral miracle could begin humbly. Hearts that beat with excitement to the ordinary prejudices aren't going to change overnight. Are you aware of your prejudices, as obvious as the effects of original sin? Could you pray to be exorcised of the racism which, whether you are con­scious of it or not, darkens your heart and weakens your will, or could you pray at least to be aware if you are a closet racist? 
Pray, not to be fair, but to be more than fair, toward peers who have not had your advan­tages. Even when a classmate 
complains of bleeding from 
wounds you don't think he is supposed to have, make an effort to be preternaturally polite; such politeness in itself could be a moral miracle. 

In the old love story, a suitor wears a mask not his own, to hide his plainness from his true love's eyes. When he fi­nally takes off the mask, his face is shining with borrowed beauty. Courtesy is the mask that can transform the wearer into the Christian he would like to be. Courtesy may have to be preternatural, if it is going to survive in the rough and tumble of healthy dorm life, but it goes a long way in taming the savage beast. 
Will today's five-year olds grow up in a country where they are pre-judged by the color of their skin? Undoubted­ly. You will never know. will you, if you could make things better for them, unless you try to help? Notre Dame is not the New Jerusalem, and you are not saints getting measured for your golden harps. But you are Christians who hope for a peaceful world. As Christian Americans, you have to pay more than ordinary lip service to the ideals which are sup­posed to be corner stones for life in a democracy. 
Black students have their work cut out for them, as Jesse Jackson makes plain. Why should I lecture them, In a campaign for brotherhood, as though I were carrying the cross of racism, and they were not? I agree with everything Jesse Jackson tells them, but they need to hear it from him before they hear it from me, not as a prophet, but as the echo of the prophet. teaching. Regardless of your politics, you shouldn't listen to the bigots who would cut Jesse Jackson down. In 1987, bigots are still trying to stone the prophets. How many prophets have we buried since Martin Luther King? Those who aren't buried may be publicly defrocked of their reputation and good name. Why should you let them discredit Jesse Jackson when he tells Blacks and white together: "You are Somebody"? He isn't around to preach mainly to the Blacks; he's your preacher too, and the salvation 
at stake may be America's 

anything. In the world. In the 
world. My mind. Is a pearl. 
Nobody. Will save us. For us. 
But us. Nobody. Will save us. 
For us. But us. I am Some­
body. I may be poor. But I am 
Somebody. I may be unskilled. 
But I am Somebody. Respect 
me. Protect me. Never neglect 
me. I am Somebody. Down 
with dope. Up with hope. I can 
learn anything in the world. 
Nobody will save us for us but 
us. Excel! Excel! Excel!" 
Reading Jesse Jackson's talks, I picture him as a new Moses, reminding scruffy nomads in the Sinai peninsula that they are the Lord's beloved children, destined to carry His words to the ends of the earth. 
We needn't canonize Jack­
son, to appreciate what he's up 
to. The Jews. newly freed from 
slavery in t:gypt, had to be as­
sLued that they were beautiful 
in the sight of their Maker. I00 
years after their ancestors were 
!reed as slaves, the Blacks in 
America need to be convinced 
that they are beautiful as God's 
children. why'? Because being 
1\lack In American has been an 
ugly experience. During World 
War II. students were writing 
essays on how Hitler could be 
punished. A daughter of the 
ghetto made this suggestion: 
"They should paint him black, 
and make him live in America." 
My mother. watching the newsreels from Selma In 1965, said something startling: "I would hate God, if He had made me a Negro." As an aging lady in Maine, where the Blacks she might meet on the street were Pullman car porters who would never In a million years show themselves as poli­tical, my mother was conscious of the cross under which Black people struggled. She never read the Black writers, or even the white Southern writers, who have documented the suffer­ing. She saw Blacks only at a distance, and never in her life entertained a Black In her home. Still, she knew the prej­udice which made growing up Black In America humiliating. 
She would have been surprised to learn the number of blacks who love Christ very much. Even when they suffer, they don't hate God, and they don't hate being Black, or feel sorry for themselves at not being white. Perhaps they feel sorry for whites who are twisted inside by fear and bigotry, for whose sake, the Blacks have had to play games, like being Invisible in the way Ralph Ellison talks about, or role playing as Br'er Rabbit plays the game, to outfox the 
cratty Bre'er Fox. The anger of Blacks in America --so plain to see in protest writers like James Baldwin and LeRoi Jones --has always been out­weighed by the love and for­givenness in them. Otherwise, they would have burned down om cities generations ago. 
Recently, the strip in the Scholastic, putting Negroes in a 


class with drug pushers and # 
street gangs, stirred up trou­
ble. Some campus Blacks com­
plained that the comparison 
demeaned them. White stu­
dents were quick to explain to 
the Blacks that they were being 
over sensitive, since the al­
leged slur had to be under­
stood in the context of the art­
ist's intention. 
I understand the artist's in­tention. As a former WASP, I can see the artist intended no harm. In a culture entertained by the satire represented by Opus and Uncle Duke, "Life in .Hell" doesn't have to be cen­sured as hate literature, nor do the editors of "Scholastic" have to be pilloried for printing it. Someone should explain to the Blacks what they are reading in the funnies, but perhaps white students with a chip on their shoulders are not the best ones to do the explaining. 
The harm comes not from the panel to which the Blacks reacted; the harm comes from white students reacting indig­nantly to the way some of the Blacks reacted. Isn't it arro­gant, or at least insenstitive, for a member of the white majority to explain to a minority member whether he should feel he's had his nose rubbed in the dirt? 
Bigotry is so poisonous that even the suspicion of it is harmful. A rabbi reacted to the accusation against a New York Jew of being a slum landlord. The rabbi said: "Pogroms start with a wild accusation. Every­one tells the Jews: Don't over­react to a cheap shot. Be a good fellow, and turn the other cheek.' The Jew, as a good fellow, keeps his peace. The next time he's accused as a slum landlord, a mob throws rocks at his house. Then, the mob is burning the house down. Eventually, the mob is burning the Jews down. That's what Jews have learned from their history. You have to nip matters in the bud at the beginning. A cloud no bigger than a man's hand may be the start of a firestorm." 
Holden Caufield, the catcher in the rye. wants to save kids from falling over a cliff; that is, he wants to save them from losing Innocence, so he rubs out dirty graffiti that he sees on a wall. Finally, finding "F--k you" on the walls of a museum where kids will see it, he depairs over his awareness that the "perverts" will always keep ahead of him. "Probably, when you die," he thinks, "some per­vert will write F--k you' on your tombstone." A discouraged 
Friday, October 2, 1987
page 8 The-Observer 
11le .,..__Not111 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent een•. eccept11 cluslfled ectw.tlling from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvougll Friday. The 0.....Saint u.ry's office, located on the third floor of H-ao-Collge Cent•, eccepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next~ cluslfleds Is 3 p.m. All cluslfleds must
Classifieds be pnii)Ui, either In peBon OJ by malt. The ch.rge Ia tO cent11 per five cMActenl per d-r-
NOTICES 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 
...................... 

TYPING Pickup and Delivery 277-7406 
FREE RAFFLE 

Marilyn Monroe Posters 
from The Snile Museum exhibit 
LIFE;The Second Decade 1948-55 Fill out entry forms in the Museum Shop. Drawing will be on Sunday, Oct. 11 2:00 pm 
TYPING-WORD PROCESSING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL PAT 234-5526. 
Resumes/Typing-Sec. Workoeookkeeping 277-5815 

Typing 237-1949 or 277-8131 
Diwali Dinner $10. 283-3197. 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: HORSESHOE SHAPED KEYRING ON SOUTH QUAD AT MAL­LOY PICNIC. RING HAS 7 KEYS AND IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD!!! CALL BILL £4022. 
LOST ... LOST ••. LOST I LOST MY WHITE WINDBREAKER AND THE GIRL THAT GAVE IT TO ME IS GOING TO KILL ME WHEN SHE FINDS OUT. IT SAYS "SPBC SECUR­ITY" ON IT. IF YOU HAVE IT OR FIND IT, PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL THANKS. 
JIM: 1215 
UNITED LIMO SUNDAY NIGHT, DROP OFF AT NO CIRCLE.1:05 AM. WE AC­CIDENTLY PICKED UP YOUR WHITE JACKET. CALL 284-4431 SO THAT WE CAN RETURN IT TO YOU. 
LOST·---·---LOST········-LOST TEN· NIS RACQUETS •••••• outside of south dining hall ·--··91.12 2 precision graphite racquets with green strings (with covers) Please call nyou have ANY clue about their location. I don't care nthey were taken by mistake. Just return them please. Large reward offered. PLEASE, PLEASE. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, call Jim at £1760 
LOST: A dark grHR Caribou-type backpack. Initials ehould be on out­aida tag. Believe to be loat In Library. Chrta1248. 
YELLOW UMBRELLA MISSING! Who "borrowed" my yellow umbrella at lunch in South Dining Hall Wednesday, Sep­tember 16????? PLEASE. PLEASE return the yellow umbrella to South Dining Hall where you found it. Lost and Found, or 226 Howard. No questions asked. Thank You. LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST 
HELP THURSDAY ON 21ST AT BRIDGETS BLACK JEAN 
JACKET DISAPPEARED IF CAN HELP PLEASE CALL PETE 3498 !!!!!!!! 
LOST Lady's Class Ring light blue stone. "B. Seidel 88" inscribed on inside of band. Please call Barb at £1348 if found. REWARD! 
FOR RENT 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN· T ALS 272-5959 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-36841.!88-0955 
MOVE IN NOW! FREE RENT UNTIL 1MMI7. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­ments available, each with kitchen, full bathroom and large living room. Beds and dressers furnished. Rent includes all utilrties. Call 232-9239. 
large house for rent--7 bedrooms,2 baths,2 relrigerators,washer and dryer,oll street parf<1ng. call debbie before 4pm. 288-6740. 
ROOM FOR RENT.272-0805 One block away. 
2 ROOMS IN LARGE HOUSE. USE OF KITCHEN. WASHER. CABLE TV. ON BUS ROUTE. $120 MONTHLY. PHONE MIKE 289 6308 
WANTED 
AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
MORE DRIVERS AND COUNTER HELP NEEDED. PART-TIME OR FULL-TIME. GOOD WAGES. APPLY IN PERSON AT GODFATHER'S PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 NO. 
Dalla&f't. Worth area: I need a ride home for FALL BREAK. Will share driving and expenses as usual. II you can leave Friday, soon after 1 pm, please call Joe at x1139. 
HEADING FOR ST. LOUIS--NEEDING RIDERS LEAVING THURSDAY P.M.-­RETURNING FOR THE GAME! CALL BETH AT £3731 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY OR 2 BAMA GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX x601 3 or 272-8813. 
I NEED 1 STUDGA FOR BAMA 
$$$CALL DAN 1133 THANKS! 
PLEASE, sell me your extra Navy tlx lor my little brother who I care lor greatly-Todd 3754 
to NYC 1 way flight sat. OCT.17 8:30 am 287-4336 
Needed-USC GA"s...lote of them! Call Joe or Dan at 2073 
I have NAVY GA's to trade for PENN STATE! £4096 
HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S!II WILL TRADE FOR (OR BUY) 2 OR 3 BAMA GA'S CALL JIM 1239 
I'm !ailing out and want my family to see an N.D. game before I hit the streets. Need USC student and GA's. Call Chris at 1861 
CARING PERSON experienced in caring lor small children, needed to care tor our 3 pre-schoolers (2 toddlers, 1 infant) in our home from noon October 22 till midnight October 24 (Thursday thru Saturday of Fall Break). Own transportation preferred, but not necessary. Will pay $75. Call 232-7273. tl you're staying in town over Fall Break (or are returning early) and don't plan to attend the USC game, here's an oppor­tunity to get off campus and to pick up some cash. 
GOING TO BOSTON OR HARTFORD FOR OCT BREAK? NEED A RIDER? I NEED A RIDE. COLLEEN 1366. 
••• HELP ! I need a ride to Wisconsin (Milwaukee or Madison) on Fri. Oct. 9. Will pay$$$$-please call PAT at £1201 if you can help. Thanks!!! 
NEED MONEY? Call PAT at 283·1201. 
I need GA's for NAVY and Stu.Tix. for 
USC, BC, and BAMA. $$$$$ 
FUN for you Ill 
I need a ride to Louisville or that direction tonight or Saturday morning PLEASE CALL ME LISA 4232 
OVERSEAS JOBS...Summer, yr.round. Europe, S.Amer., Aualrella, Aala. All fields. 5900-2000 mo. SlghtMBing. F-Info. WrHe IJC, PO bx 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
HELP! Need as many USC GA's as pos­sible. Call Jennifer at 4619. 
HELP NEEDED APPLY AT YOGI'S YQ­GURT WEEKENDS AND EVENINGS 
FOR SALE 
1886 PACE ARROW, 30 FT., 3.800 MILES, REAR BATH, TWIN M:, 6.5 KW GEN., HITCH, TV ANT, MoW, EXT. WAR· RANTY, LOCATED NO AREA. NEW $52,000, ASKING $38,500. CALL 717· 33t-3141. 
1977 LeMans wagon, 400cc, 4-barrel carb. wrth auto. trans.. runs good but un­fortunately body needs work. Affec­tionately known as "The Bomb". $200. Call 234-5558 alter 5 p.m. 
SYNTHESIZER ROLAND JXIP, per cond.,8 voice poly mono capabll­lly.two envelope genaratora,aaklng S1000,call greg,3537 
FOR SALE POLICE RADAR DETECTOR--NEVER USED CALL KIM 284·4452 
DATSUN 210, 1980 5SPEED $1200 OR BEST OFFER. SKIS: DYNASTAR 190cm AND MARK 4 160cm. CALL PIERRE AT 239-5748 OR 289-7905 
71 WI BUG $495 232 9180 
SONY DISKS Why pay $2.80 or more? Support the MadMacs Macintosh User's Group and get high-quality, Sony 3.5" diskettes for only $1.40 each. Contact Tim Dierks at 283-2101 or stop by Stanford 136. 
'80 Ply. Horizon ':':··;•mo (2 dr. hatchback), 4 spd.. AMfM ::ilereo cas· sette with Power Boosteo(lraphic Equalizer. 75,000 m1., Body VGC, runs very well. MUST SELL!!! Asking $800. Call 239-71 80 and ask for Dave between 9 am & 10 pm. It's just that simple! 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 BC GA'S! CALL LISA 2720 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S PAT 3326 
NEEo TWo ric.<Ers·,;oR·iiic GAMe. 
CALL 717-339·3141. 

lWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA­TION·· TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CO MATT 283-3549 
......................•......... 
Looking for extra money? I need 2 stud. or GA's for USC GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEY! Call Tom x3248. 
$$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 
WANT LARGE PROFITS? SELL ME BAMA GA TICKETS!!! CALL ED £1826 
NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S OR STUD'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL JOHN x1867 
PITT TIX PLEASE!IIII!ANY NUM­BER,(nearly)ANY PRICE.CALL STEVE X-3068 $$$I'M DESPERATEII!! 
...................... 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1 GA FOR USC. DAD IS COMING FROM CALIF. PLEASE CALL $$ JOHN £1709 
I NEED BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS AND USC TICKETS. AS MANY AS YOU CAN SPARE. PLEASE CALL 3257 AND ASK FOR BRIAN. 
GA'S WANTED ---2 USC AND 4 ALA­BAMA CALL BILL AT X3366 ANYTIME 
UM... OH YEAH, I GOTTA TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 AMABALA GA'S. LET'S MAKE A DEAL! CALL 234-6394. ASK FOR WIBBLES. 
Help, my brother will shave my head bald if I don't get BC tix. Call Ron £3575, so I can keep my hair!!! 
NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFER!! CALL 1075 
............... Parents wish to drink grain with me before I graduate. Need 4 BAMA GA's to get them here. Call Mark £3592. 
Help I need USC tix for my boss from KC. Any extra GAs please call Chris 
x2257 
ALABAMA GA'S!! You got them. I need them BADL Y!l 'rents coming from MO to see game. Can't let Mom down! Call Rob 
1106 
NEED 2 'BAMA TIX. x2916 AT NIGHT. 
Young grad has found the secret to career sucess -· 4 B.C. tickets lor the 
V.P. I need good seats, any price. Ann (312) 369-1519. 
I need 2 Navy GA"a call2064 
HELP! I need one USC ticket. My brother already made his flight reservations. 289­0966 
PITT I need GA"all Call Llu x2685 
NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5216 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 
..................................... 
NEED 4 GA"S FOR USC CALL SHAWN AT 2235 
I DESPERATELY need one Navy GA. joe x1631 
WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then uU me your BC GA'a so my staters, couatna, and unclea can ... the Eagl..loHIIIIIII Call Steve at 232­
9616. BC TlX BC TlX BC TlX NEED BC TIX BC TlX 
USC-USC-USC 2 GA'S NEEDED FOR MOM & DAD! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL 272-5417, ASK FOR SL 
NAVYTIX I need GA and STUD tix to the NAVY game. $$Top Dollar Offered. $S Call John: 283-2099. 
I NEED AS MANY PITT TIX AS POSSI· BLE CALL DAN 1914 
I NEED AS MANY PITT TIX AS POSSI· BLE CALL DAN 1914 
NEED 2 USC GA'S PARENTS VISITING HAVE LOTS OF MONEY STEVE 277-8932 
ii;i~;;~;;~;;;;~ij·;~-i~:;;~~:·N~~-;~·;:ix 
for ALABAMA game. Call Chris at x2379 as soon as possible. 
PLENARY INDULGENCES GRANTED FOR 2 BAMA, B.C., orU.S.C GA's £1409 
SOUTH'ERN·eo·y. DESPE.RATE..FO'A.2 
USC GA'S. PLEASE CALL DAN X3261 
...................................... .... REL. FROM IRELAND want to see Amer. football. I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.s. Will also pay for 2 U.S.C & 2 B.C. either Stud or G.A. 1!!!1 £ 1560 KEVIN 
....................................................... I NEED 2 OR 4 TICKETS TO THE BC GAME BAD . REAL BAD. ASK FOR ANYTHING...$$$...WHATEVER ELSE CALL SEAN AT 271-9441 
............................1...... 
HELP!!! 2 USC GAs NEEDED $WILL PAY$$ PLEASE CALL JOY £5493 
............................................................. 
STUDENTS HOLDING TROJANS TIX: NEED USC STUD TICKET. ALSO, NEED BAMA STUD TIX. CALL R.J. 287-1348. 
WILL SWAP 2 GA BAMA TIX FOR 2 GA B.C. 239-5740 
WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GA FOR 2 USC. CALL MIKE 2204. 
NEED 4 TIX FOR USC GAME. CALL COLLECT 309-346-2622 AFTER 5 PM. 
...BIG BUCKs··· Will Pay $$$for 4 PITT Tix and'or 2 or 4 USC GA's. Call Andy X1236 
Need GAs for all home games 
NEED 4 NAVY GA'S CALL MARY 284­5056 
Will trade 2 USC tix for 2 Bama tix GA's Lisa 284 4426. 
STOP! I NEED STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS TO THE B.C. GAME! 
WILL PAY BIG $$$1 CALL DAN AT £1623 
I NEED 2 PITT TIXI CALL CHRIS 301-837-8567. 
\ 
PERSONALS 
................................................................ 
BELL YGRAMS ! 255·3355 
...................................................... 
NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233­
2784 
TOM R: Could you do us a lavor and please say hello or something to your admirerer?Go ahead--make her day before she graduates!Besides, she's driving us nutsiThanks.friends of hers. 
WOMEN WANTED! Transfer students unaccostomed to exciting NO social scene seek ladies lo help them adjust. SYR's? Call3 Matt's n· a John 234-7385. 
Need tickets to any home game. either 
G.A. or student. I will do ANYTHING!!!! Call 284-4372 any time day or night. es­pecially when M.J. is tak1ng a nap. $$$$$ 
Thank-you St. Jude 
HELP• I need GA'S for USC game. Long 
los! parents first time in S.B. Big money. 
Call Suzette 233-5396 
LEISHMANIA-CATCH IT! 
"THAT BOY'S GOT THE BOOGIE IN 
HIM ... " 
" ... AND IT'S GOT TO COME OUT..." 
"LET THAT BOY BOOGIE WOOGIE !!" 
JIMBO LYLE MATEO GLAZED 
BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK -Bus leaves N.D. on Friday, October 16 and returns to N.D. on Friday, October 23 before the USC game. Cost is approx. $60 round 1rip. Sign-ups Friday, October 2 and Monday, October 5 from 3:30·5:30 PM in 343 LEWIS HALL. Questions­CALL KIM x3425.-BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DR. JENNIE. MISS YOU. LOVE YOU. 
WAITING IN THE SUNSHINE. TRUST 
ME. 
DR. DAVE. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 GAs FOR THE 
ALABAMA GAME. 
MOM AND DAD THREATEN TO DIS­
OWN! CALL 271-0673. 
Superior V-II's getting worse. I can't stop thinking of you. You are my sunrise every morning. 
HAPPY B·DAY LAURA ANDERSEN! 
18?! I GUESS YOU'RE NOT A KID 
ANYMORE. 
CALLAGHAN • That's what he said ... Then I said ... l'll beer ya anytime II' At least you've got that goin'lor ya! N.G .. 
S.M.. B.M. 
HEY, GIRLSitl Today is Tom Krebs' birthday. Stop by 365 Alumni or call 1248 to wish him a happy birthday! F.M. 
Tomorrow is Nani:y Campbell's birthday. Let's make sure she doesn't remember how much fun she hadll! 
Happy Birthday, Nancyll Love, Sara & Colleen and those 3 other girls from down the hall. 
l.osr...cA"R·&-RooM.i<evs'iN".sou;:H 
QUAD BETWEEN THE ROCK AND PANGBORNE. CALL 283-1963, REWARD. 
······································ 
EARN $260-840 IN THE NEXT. TWO 
WEEKS. Multi-national marketing 
company needs sales representatives 
Immediately lor upcoming Vatican 
Vacation giveaway at Notre Dame. 
Easy sales; T-shlrt featured on MTV. 
Call (812) 333-6066 before TUESDAY. 
OCT. 6 at 5 PM. 
10-03-87 MIC ITS YOUR DAY GRANDMA GUND. HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! HUGS AND KISSES, SHELL 

DAVID MOONLIGHTING THIS WEEK... WHERE HAS THE RELATION­SHIP GONE? I THOUGHT WE HAD SOMETHING AFTER THIS SUMMER. I HOPE I'M NOT WRONG.. "MADDIE" P S. CALL ME ... I'D LOVE IT 
HEY SENIORS! JUST FOR YOU! SENIOR REFLECTION GROUP! FOOD, LAUGHS, AND GOOD CON­VERSATION! DEADLINE: OCT. 8 AT C.S.C. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PIGGY Ill Have a good one! Just don't HOG the keg, O.K.! This means you too. Shirley! 
Love. Mike 

P.S. Watch out Chicago! 
HAPPY BDAY ZYGOTES! 
PEGFISH & SHIRL, THE FISH ARE 20. SCARY THOUGHT. (WHO SAID THAT?) HOPE IT'S AWESOME-FACE DOWN, THAT IS. HOPE YOU LOOK 'NAPPY' THE MOR· NING AFTER. 
RALLY BOSS DUDEStl! LOVE VA, COLFISH 
Jon: Dog Ted says "Art Arfl" We say happy b-dayl P&J 
I deperately need tickets tickets. either 
G.A. or sludent to the Boston College game. I will sacrifice my first born child II$$$ Call Ann ay 284-4372. 
I'm looking lor: one Alabama student ticket 4 Pitt GA's 4 B.C. GA's 
1 have 2 Navy GA'o and lots of cash. Call Mark at 1536 either before 9:00 am or alter 10:00 pm. Save the ...dlum. 
WOMEN OF NOOMC: 3 PARTIALLY IN­SANE GUYS WOULD LIKE TO PARTY WITH YOU AT A HAYRIDE ON SATUR­DAY. CALL 3115 FOR MORE INFOR­MATION. 
India Assoc1ation of N.D. presents Diwah Celebration--Festival-of L1ghts--Oct. 17. Indian cuisine. style show. flute recital. music. dance performance. For inlo. call Nageen 283-31 97. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON (May-June 17) and ROME (June 12-July 11) Couro.. In Art, Buec, Blo, Hlat, ltel, end Soc INFORMATIONAL MEETING October 12, 7:00 P.M. Carroll Hall at SMC Talk with Teachers end Former Pertl· clpenta Slide Show end Free Pizza For More Info. Cell Prof. A.R.Biack, 284-4460 or 272-3726 
One Way T1ckei Memphis-Cincinatti-Southbend for October 25 Contact Will 1 764 
The Long Island Bus rides once again!! Sign-ups -Sun. Oct. 4. 7-8:30 pm in LaFortune. Leaving ND--8pm Fri. Oct. 16th Leaving L.l.--7am Fri. Oct. 23rd WE WILL RETURN IN TIME TO SEE NO CLOBBER USCII' Questions? Call Lou (x1 422) or Matt (287-0548) 
To the owner of Barany Gopher "It's a little bit Iunny this feeling 1nside!" Remember the shelf the Xmas tree. Peach coolers. and everyone going into the closet? Has it really been a year? Thanks lor all the great times and I am sure there is more to come. All my love always. Me(Gretchen) 
I need a ride to INDY. Bloomington. or Evansville over Fall Break call Leslie 284­4320 
WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB BUS SIG­NUPS The D.C. Club Ia sponsoring a bua home lor Oc1ober break. Departure: Friday Oct. 16th at 8 P.M. from the library circle. Arrival: Approx. 8 A.M. on Sat. Oct. 17 at the Greyhound Bue Station on New York Ave. In D.C. Retum: Friday Oct. 23 et 8 P.M. from th" Greyhound Bus S..tlon. We ShJUid be IIKk at N.D. approx. 12 hours later In time lor the U.S. C. game. Coat: $75 Roundtrip (Payment by NO 
CredH Union check or cash) •••SIGN-UPs••• Tuesday October 8 from 6-7 P.M. IN THE LOBBY OF LAFORTUNE Questions cell Mike McCarthy at 3218. 
CAMPUSVIEW APT FOR RENT female (I moved on-campus) If interested call 271-0952 or 283-3958. 
GREAT. ''H'UN'CiER cLEAN~up·····:a·a 
GREAT HUNGER CLEAN-UP '88 Come find out how you can help!! Organiza­tional meeting Monday, Oct. 5 at 7:00 in the Center lor Social Concerns 
.................................... ························ To D from MSG: I'm so sorry; either I or, more likely, some fool at this paper screwed up the ad I placed lor you yes­terday. I did NOT forget you. Please un­derstand and call me anytime this alt. or eve. at 3672. I'm as angry as you must be . 
AM: I didn't honestly expect anyone to answer my ad, so I've really been caught off guard by the number of responses. I feel terribly low putting people on hold, but there's no way for me to meet you right away. How about Stonehenge at 4PM Sunday? I'll carry a newspaper­MSG 
I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON FOR FALL BREAK.! CAN LEAVE THURSDAY OR FRIDAY.! HAVE R.E.M. TIX FOR SUN­DAY NIGHT,PLEASE CALL PAUL AT X3665.WILL SHARE NORMAL EX· PENSES.OF COURSE! 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY It's VALERIE, MALERIE, PUNKY, STINKY, or LITTLE GIRL's birthday today! Give her a cell at £2169 and wish her a happy birthday. especially If you ere a John, she seems to like Johns end dumpster• In Turtle Creek. Are you the only one who'a birthday Is today? I don't think soliIt hope you have a great birthday, you deserve IIIII 
Love ya, Min 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY, T.C.III You still need to get s JOB end a DATE. but that might be asking lor too much! I hope It's a good one, you deserve It! Love, Your Favorite Sister!!! 
LEANNE and SHEILA Thanx lor the 
pizza Be reedy to party Mr L.A. & Brien 
SENIORS CLASS MASS WITH FATHER MALLOY SUNDAY OCTOBER 4 7:00 KEEKA!l'STANFORD CHAPEL 
CLASS OF 88 Wedding Reception Tickets Available Senior Class Ofice 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS U2 TICKETS U2 TICKETS U2 TICKETS U2 TICKETS U2 TICKETS U2 TICKETS Bus ride to lnd1anappohs and Concert Tickets 555.00 Sunday November 1 
Leave 2:00 pm Return 2:30 am Lottery 
for 20 t1ckets 
Monday October 5 3-Spm Room 02 
LaFortune (Ticket Stub) 
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR 
Monday even~ngs. 7:30-9:00, beg~nnmg October 5. and lasting seven weeks. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Charlo­malic Preyer Group. 
Prepares people to be prayed with for the Baptism 1n the Spint. and for an en­trance into a deeper spintual life. 
For more information. call· 277-5243 or 239-7651. 
MITCH 

HAVE A NICE WEEK-END AT 
PURDUE! 

-TRISHA 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! 
TO 
WILLIAM RAGGAE SCHATNER 
WE ALL LOVE YOUI 
-FROM THE WOMEN OF THE 
WORLD(AND MEGAN,TOOI) 
HEY B. KAUTH, I STILL OWE YOU FOR 
FREDDY'S REVENGE. I'M A MAN OF 
MY WORD. INTERESTED? BRUCE 
SIGNORE M., BUON DIVERTIMENTO 
QUESTO WEEK-END! CIAO I -TRISH 
PATTY 0 (PMO) • 

I'M WATCHING YOU, 
YOU LOOK GREAT II 
YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
MR. RIGHT 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR SEXUAL LEADER-SIOBHAN! WE FOUND BILL. ON A HILL.AND MAYBE IT'S US, BUT DON'T YOU THINK SQUIRRELS ARE SIMILAR TO SISYPHUS? YEA, YEA. BLAH,BLAH,BLAH. ACV 
Tom, Chris said it was THIS BIG. Too 
bad you GUYS live in the same dorm. 
Sexy Babe. I'll really miss ·1r this 
weekend. CD 

ROACH Glad to see you FINALLY got 
the message. 

Sultry SoloFieX seeks Foxy Figure. In­
terested? reply here SFX 
FLANNER 215 REMEMBER THAT FRI. NITE SITTING BY THE TV UTE SEAN SAID "'HI"' WITH A WINK GRAYSTER LOOKED COOK IN PINK SENSITIVE "'PHIL"' WAS RIGHT ON KEY & DEX SANG "'TALK DIRTY TO ME"' EVERYONE WAS LOTS OF FUN BUT COULDN'T STAY, HAD TO RUN LEFT A NOTE ON THE BED AFTER THAT, NOTHING WAS SAID WONDER WHAT IS GOING ON WHY DON"T YOU CALL SOMETIME SEAN I 
see PERSONALS, page 4 


Friday, October 2, 1987 The Observer page 9 
******************************************~r--------------­
Sports Bri,efs 
The Alpine Club's registration for the Michigan canoe trip is today. If you haven't registered yet, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. Registration for the October Break trip to the Smokey Mountains should also be com­pleted by Friday. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club will start league play Tuesday, October 6, and Thursday, October 8. Schedules will be ready Sunday and can be picked up in either room 221 or room 218 Cavanaugh. Call Dave 0425) or Mark 0422). -The Observer 
The Squash Club will be holding another clinic Saturday at 2 p.m. on Court 1 of the JACC. All interested are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Thewomen'scrosscountryteamneedsvolunteers to assist with today's meet. Interested people should report to the finish line on the golf course at 12:30 p.m. -The Observer 
The field hockey team will play at Albion Monday at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
Benito Santiago of the San Diego Padres extended his hitting streak to 33 straight games with a bunt single in the eight inning in San Diego's 4-3 loss to Cincinnati Thursday. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

Tonight at 9:00pm 
The Oreat Pretenders music from the 50's and 60's 
Saturday Open 8 -2 
D.J. 's Ann Seifert and Tom Tisa 
Open 12-6

Sunday 
Special this week: $2. 00 for all you can eat, build your own sub 
.ERT

LIVE IN CONe 
FRANK SINATRA 
TUESDAY, NOV. lOth 8:00P.M. JOYCE ACC 
CONCERT WILL BE PERFORMED IN-THE-ROUND WITH STAGE IN CENTER OF ARENA 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $27.50 AND $22.50 
~ TICKETS GO ON SALE THIS MONDAY FOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS I FACULTY I STAFF. 
-+c MONDAY'S TICKET SALE WILL BE HELD AT GATE 3 OF THE J.A.C.C. (FIELDHOUSE DOME)
t NO ONE MAY ASSEMBLE BEFORE 6:00A.M. 
-+c FOR THOSE ASSEMBLED BY 8:00 A.M., A DRAWING FOR POSITION IN LINES WILL BE CONDUCTED. 
t THOSE COMING AFTER 8:00 A.M. WILL BE POSITIONED IN LINE AFTER THE 8:00 A.M. DRAWING. 
t LIMIT FOUR (4) TICKETS PER PURCHASE. UNIVERSITY I.D. REQUIRED. 
i' (TICKET SALE FOR THE PUBLIC WILL TAKE PLACE AT GATE 10 OF THE J.A.C.C.-ARENA DOMEl. 
· 

Belles win third straight match 
By KATHY JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team continued its winning streak last Tuesday, defeating Bethel Colllege and improving its record to 8-3. 
The Belles won in four games, 15-12, 11-15, 15-10, 15-7, and currently have won their last three contests, two of which were conference games. 
The team played well and ran many difficult attacks. They also showed definite team uni­ty, a quality they previously have lacked. 
Dorsett among picket crossers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The striking NFL players union called Thursday for a resumption in bargaining -as nine more players, including Tony Dor­sett, broke ranks and returned to their teams. 
Management, however, said 
!1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!H 
= =
I LONG ISLAND BUS I 
= 
i
I = OCTOBER BREAK 
I Leaving: FRIDAY, = OCTOBER 16, BPM 
Leaves Hempstead, L.l. 
October 23, 7:30am 
Signups: Lafortune Basement, 7-8:30pm, Sun., Oct. 4 
5
I $70 Round-Trip 
=
I (limited number of 1-way tickets) 
ffilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliii 
''I am very pleased with their performance," said Head Coach Sue Medley, "Bethel presented a hurdle, but all four games were played with a quick and consistent pace." 
Junior Margaret Feldman, the Belles' team captain, led the team with sixteen kills, three attempts, three aces, and served a very strong third game. 
"Sophomore Mary McCarthy set a very fine game," com­mented Medley, "and junior Tammy Suth contributed a big offensive plus." 
it saw no reason for talks at 
this time. 
The defections brought to 48 the number who have crossed picket lines in the 10 days of the strike. Twenty-four have returned since Wednesday. Friday is the deadline for reporting and still getting this week's paycheck. 

I§ 5= 
I 
E 

I§ I = 
i saint[\1a~seoneg~
* NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
* ~-1987-88 ~ PERFORMING ARTS
* SERIES 
lt; 

~ PRESENTS 
*
!* iiiiiiiiiilllliiiii-~-~
-~~n-~4&·an~w4&;;

: ==== Uund =-~ ~-. . 
lt TRUEHEART Jf-IN CONTEMPORARY JAZZ 
*
*
* 
* FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2 
8:00P.M. 

:** 
* O'LAUGHllN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COllEGE
:
* 
TICKETS: $7.50, $6.50,$550 
: 
$1.00 off with student 1.0.

* 
To Charge By Phone: 284-4626 visa, mastercard accepted
~ 
The fourth game showed strong serving by freshman Melissa Phillips, who recorded eight attempts and two aces. 
Despite the win over the Pilots, Medley indicated the Belles might need more work in a couple of areas if they are to continue their winning streak. 
"We need consistency in both our intensity and in our com­munication, though the team did show definite improvement in these areas Tuesday night," said Medley. 
Talks broke off last Friday with the two sides deadlocked on the union's demand for un­compensated free agency for players with more than four years' experience. 
Many of the players return­ing to work said free agency wasn't worth the walkout, al­though Dorsett, the biggest name in Thursday's group, was not among them. 
The 48 players who have returned are on 14 of the NFL's 28 teams and not all are union members -some are rookies who were on injured reserve rather than the active roster when the regular season started and were never eligible to join the union, 
continued from page 12 
its piority in relationship to the other needs of this University. 
Having said all that, it has one unique capacity. That is that it's a facility that is a major revenue generator. To that extent if there is a need, I don't know that there is, it may be self-funding in part or in total. But it is an area I have not looked at at all. Frankly there are just other areas with the season upon us that are claiming priority right now. 
• UnltMIW.U 

·¥···········¥··¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥.¥¥¥¥..¥¥¥¥•••••••••¥············¥·¥¥¥¥¥········~-------------------d 
page 10 The Observer Friday, October 2, 1987 
Women's cross country team looks to keep momentum 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
Irish women's cross country coach Dan Ryan says his team is starting to put everything to­gether, and it looks as if his run­ners could not have picked a better time to do it. 
The Irish host the first-ever Notre Dame Invitational for women today at 1 p.m. at Burke Memorial Golf Course, and Ryan is guardedly optimistic about his team's chances in the 10-team event. 
"I would say they're right where we want them to be," Ryan said. "We've got four solid runners, and I think they're ready to run well." 
The meet will consist of a pot­
pourri of teams from all divi­
sions of the NCAA and the 
NAIA. Saint Mary's will com­
pete on the club level. 
Cardinals win, 8-2, clinch East 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Veterans Danny Cox and Dan Driessen were the unlikely heroes Thursday night, as the St. Louis Car­dinals beat the Montreal Ex­pos, 8-2, to clinch their second National League East title in the last three years. 
The Cards will face the San Francisco Giants next week in the National League champion­ship series. 
Cox, 11-9, faced a Montreal lineup that had batted .447 against him before Thursday. After allowing a first-inning run, he retired sixteen batters in a row. He struck out four and walked one. The victory was just St. Louis' seventh in 18 games against the Expos this season. 
Jay Tibbs, 4-5, lost in his second start since being recalled from the minors on Sept. 14. Tibbs was a late choice by Montreal Manager Buck Rodgers, who had ex­hausted his pitching staff while trying to catch the Cardinals. 
Tibbs' trouble started when John Morris led off the third with a triple. Tony Pena fol­lowed with an RBI groundout on a 3-0 pitch that tied the score 1-1. 
Piane 
continued from page 12 
"It is an advantage," noted Piane of running at Burke, "but the disadvantage is that while the other teams will be resting in hotels (on Thursday night), our players will be studying for their classes and exams (today)." 
Regardless of how the Irish fare at this meet, the tough competition can only serve to strengthen the team as the season progresses. 
"We still haven't run well this season,'' said Garrett, despite last week's second place finish and a blowout vic­tory over Georgetown. "We are a good team -everyone's just got to put it all together in one race and we can do well." 
"Virginia is the team to tween the first and fifth-place beat," Ryan said. "It'll be an runners will determine the interesting race. There are a final finish for the Irish. Last lot of good individuals, but the week, there was a 1:52 gap be­race will be determined by the tween the first Irish finisher, 

Theresa Rice, and the fifth run­ner, Wendy Murray. Ryan is looking for an improved perfor­mance from Murray. 

"She didn't run well last 
well in practice," Ryan said.  
"If she does well, we'll be in  
the top five."  
Joining Rice in the top four  
are Jenny Ledrick, Julia Merkel  
and Kathleen Lehman, while  
Teresa  Laminski  and  Renee  
Kaptur should battle Murray  
Dan Ryan  for the fifth spot. Still missing  
from  the  lineup  is  standout  
number two through five run- Terry  Kibelstis,  out  with  a  
ners."  Ryan says the gap be- stress fracture.  

week because of her ankle in-....----------------------~ 
jury, but she has been running I 
******************** 


HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY JENNIFER FREIDHOFF 
LOVE, 
MOM&DAD 
******************** 
rJO"""..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...r..r..r..r..r..r..r...r..r..r...r..rJ.X~ 
§ § 
~ Knollwood Country Club ~ 
~ is looking for part-time waiters and I waitresses for the formal dining rooms and ~ banquets. §
I

§ Can virtually guarantee $6.001u. ~ § no experience is necessary, will train. §8 must be able to work weekends and through the holiday S 8season. S§ Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment §§ or apply in person between .3 and 5 p.m. Tues-Fri. §§ Knollwood Is located at 166.3.3 Baywood Ln. § ~ (iu.st off Grape Road) § 
~..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rJO"""..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.h~ 
FRIDAY 
ALL IMPORTS $1.00 AMARETTO SOURS 75 CENTS 
SATURDAY 
DOMESTIC DRAFrS 50 CENTS BARTLES AND JAMES $} 
ND sweeps DePaul 
Special to the Observer 
One day after having its seven-match winning streak snapped by Northwestern, the Notre Dame volleyball team quickly got back in track with a 15-3, 15-3, 16-14 sweep of DePaul last night. 
Juniors Zanette Bennett and Mary Kay Waller led the Irish charge at DePaul. Wal­ler led Notre Dame with 10 kills, while Bennett recorded six kills in seven attempts for an .857 hitting percentage. Bennett did not play the third game, as al­most all of the Irish sub­stitutes saw action in the match. 
Sporting a 12-3 record, the Irish end their road trip tonight at Butler before re­turning home to face the University of Iowa Saturday night at 7:30p.m. 

"FREE LITER OF RC 
MON-THURS

WITH DELIVERY ORDERS" 
10AM-12 MID 

·minimum 2 subs-
FRI 10 AM -2 AM ALL FOOD PRODUCTS FRESH SAT 10 AM-2 AM DAILY SUN 10:30 AM-10 PM 
WE CATER SANDWICHES-ALL DELIVERY CATERING TYPES &SIZES TO 6 FT 
272-4453 WE DELIVER AFTER 5 PM 
1!2 BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE (2 MILE RADIUS) 
DAME ON ST RD 23 

~;:;:;;:;:;:================~ 
HOLD THAT 

SUMMER TAN 

CALL US At 277-7026 
BOOTHS 5 visits for $12.50 BEDS 10 visits for $39.00 STUDENT RATES 

J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 

L__ -·-------------­

Friday, October 2, 1987 The Observer page 11 
The Daily Crossword
Campus . 
Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



Beer Nuts 
~o' NO' fXJNr "'~A~DI 
0 

Friday 
9 a.m. -10 a.m.: Chair: Gerald Jones, ND, PLFQTC lecture "Is the Moon There When Nobody Looks?" by N. David Mermin, Cornell. 
10:40 a.m. -11:40 p.m.: PLFQTC lecture "Quantum Nonlocality and the Descrip­tion of Nature," by Henry Stapp, Berkeley. 
12:15 -1 p.m.: Friday Forum for faculty and staff, talk-discussion "Water Supply in Developing Countries" by Prof. Lloyd Ketchum, UND, Dept. Civil Engineering, brown bag or soup and bread, $1, call 5142 for soup-bread reserva­tions, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns. 
1:00 p.m.: Women's Cross Country, Notre Dame Invitational, ND Golf Course. 
2 p.m. -3 p.m.: Chair: Janet Kourany, ND, PLFQTC lecture "Holism, Separability, and Ontological Implications of the Bell Experiments," by Don Howard, Kentucky. 
3:40p.m. -4:40p.m.: PLFQTC "What Bell's Theorem Does Not Say About Relatively," by Linda Wessels, Indiana. 
4 p.m.: Men's Cross Country, Notre Dame Invitational, ND Golf Course. 
4:30p.m.: Mathematical Colloquim "K-Theory and Dynamics," by Prof. F. 
Thomas Farrell, Columbia, Room 226 CCMB. 4:30p.m.: Tennis SMC vs. Taylor University, Angela Outdoor Tennis Courts. 
7:30 p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Wisconsin, Madison, Cartier Field. 7:30p.m. -8:30p.m.: Chair: Philip Quinn, ND, PLFQTC lecture "Do Correla­tions Need to be Explained?" by Arthur Fine, Northwestern. 7:30p.m. & 9:30p.m.: Friday night film series "Radio Days," directed by Woody Allen, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8 p.m.: SMC Performing Arts Series concert, The Vince Andrews Band, con­temporary jazz, for tickets call 284-4626, O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saturday 
9 a.m.: Men's tennis, Notre Dame Fall Invitational, Courtney Courts. 9 a.m. -10 a.m.: Chair: James McGrath, Central Michigan, PLFQTC lecture "The Iden­tify of Idential Particles," by Bas van Fraassen, Princeton. 
10:40 a.m. -11:40 a.m.: PLFQTC lecture "Quantum Physics and the Identity of Indiscernibles, " by Michael Redhead, Cambridge. 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grilled Pastrami  French Dip Sandwich with  
Fried Fish Platter  au jus  
Beef Potato Pie  Fish Parisienne  
Linguine & Vegetables  Vegetable Quiche  
Deli Bar  

ACROSS 1 Top fliers 5 Possesses 8 Norse poetry 
collection 12 Con game 14 Saucy 15 Meat 16 Expansive 17 Coastal flyer 18 Lab burner 19 Perennial herb 21 Soaks flax 22 Urge 23 Golllwogg 24 Russ. letters 27 Overflow 31 Vestigial 
feather 34 Spring 
festivals 37 Detrimental 41 Recollections 42 Start 43 Make believe 46 Notable period 
In history 47 -Ruth 49 Seraglio 
rooms 52 Snitch 53 Store events 59 Can. prov. 60 Sharpen 61 Jeweled 
headdress 62 Energy source: 
abbr. 63 Diving birds 64 Permit 65 Carefree 
adventure 66 Attempt 67 Backtalk 
DOWN 1 Dear ­2 Remedy 3 Chemical 
compound 4 Overcharge 5 Leander's love 6 Cartoonist 
Peter 7 Let it stand 8 Fir 9 Hold back 
10/02/87 
1--+--+--+---+­
· 1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
10 "Inferno" 
name 11 Oh, woe! 13 Fragrance 14 Hidden 20 Court 23 Expenses 24 Melancholy 25 Svelte 26 Stratagem 28 Taut 29 Opportune 30 She-bear: Sp. 32 Soot pigment 33 Worship 35 Thorny bush 36 Litigant 38 Compete 39 Buchwald 40 Train stop: 

abbr. 44 Observes 50 Charles' dog 55 Blackish 45 Presidential 51 Leaves port 56 Singing 
monogram 52 Chin. money syllables 47 Abzug ol 53 Question 57 Cupid politics word 58 Carpenters' 48 Do tailoring 54 Eleventh -tools 

Sports
page 12 Friday, October 2, 1987 
Undefeated Irish face another Great Lakes test 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor In a season of major exams, the Irish soccer team will be  The Badgers enter the match with an 8-3 record. Wisconsin and Marquette, which the Irish host Nov. 6, represent the two last major exams in the region  season. But the team· has already paid back Michigan State and Bowling Green for losses last year, and the Badgers could be facing the  defense has recorded five shutouts of its own, and keeper Danny Lyons sports a 0.73 goals against average. "Our defense is playing in­ Three freshmen have helped to solidify the defense. Paul LaVigne and Alex Kratz fill in at wingback, and Mike Drury is the heir-apparent of the  
tested  once  again  in  Great  for Notre Dame.  same  type  of revenge,  espe­ credible," says Augustyn.  senior Lowney's sweeper posi­ 
Lakes Region competition  as  "The two big games are Mar­ cially  since  the  Irish  have  Part of the experience comes  tion.  
they host sixth-ranked Wiscon­sin tonight at 7:30. Thus far Notre Dame has received only one less-than­perfect mark in the region on  quette and Madison," said Irish wingback Dave Augus­tyn. "We haven't had a loss. I think we're sitting in the driver's seat even though we're  never beaten Wisconsin in four meetings. "We're not looking ahead to any game but Wisconsin," said midfielder Kurt Roemer.  from the team's captains, both of whom play defense. John Guignon fills the stopper role and Steve Lowney directs the defense from the sweeper spot.  Tonight the defense will have the task of stopping Andy Rec­tenwal, the leading scorer for the Badgers. Rectenwal leads  
its 10-0-1 record, a tie against  ranked third in the region. The  "When  we  played  Bowling  Augustyn and  Dan Gordon  the team with 14 points.  
ninth-ranked Wright State. But the third-ranked Irish have  region is just so deep right now -everyone is knocking off every­ Green we just concentrated on beating them, and now we're  have been staunch defenders from the wingback spots. Of the  Meanwhile the Badger defense will have the task of  
pulled through in the major tests of No. 1 Indiana and No. 4 Bowling Green and have  one else." The Irish also remember that a four-game skid, which con­ just looking at Wisconsin." Off to its best start ever, Notre Dame is averaging over  two, Gordon's performance is less recognizible from the stands.  stopping not one, but three Irish players on offense. Midfielder Joe Sternberg and  
easily  handled  the  minor  sisted  of  losses  to  Bowling  three goals a game, getting the  forward  Bruce  "Tiger"  
quizzes against Northwestern  Green,  Wisconsin,  Michigan  necessary offensive punch  to  "He does  a  lot of the litte  McCourt are locked in a battle  
and 10th-ranked Detroit. Notre Dame is the only team in the region without a loss.  State and Marquette, was re­sponsible for their poor showing in the region last  stay ahead in the regional. While the offense has never been shut out, hoY{.ever, the  things," said Augustyn. "He just doesn't get beat, and he's always there."  for the team scoring lead, and forward Randy Morris con­tinues to roll up the assists.  
ND Invite provides  
toughest challenge  
By TIM SULLIVAN  large,  national  field.  Garrett  
Sports Writer  and sophomore Mike O'Conner  
Each year it gets better and better, bigger and bigger.  placed in the top 10 in the race, but a large drop before ND's third-place finisher allowed  
This afternoon at 4, the Notre  Loyola to edge out the Irish.  
Dame  men's  cross  country  Garret is expected to repeat  
team will play host to the 32nd annual Notre Dame Invitation­ his strong performance of a week ago, though his second­ 
al, the oldest cross country in­vitational in the nation. And the Notre Dame Invite  place finish may not be repeated. "If Danny runs a good race,··  
is getting better with age. That  said Irish coach Joe Piane, "he  
fact, however, makes the going more difficult for the Irish, who  should finish in the top 10, but it'll be tough.··  
will be challenged to finish in the top five. "I've been here for four years," said Irish senior cap­tain Dan Garrett. "And I've  Garrett wil most likely be fol­lowing a trio of strong runners. Last year's champion, Ron Johnson of Central Michigan, will be back to defend his title,  
never seen such a strong field."  and Don Johns of Eastern Mic­ 
In order to make a strong showing, Notre Dame will have to overcome a big group of  higan and Chris Herdt of Vir­ginia are expected to challenge him for the title.  
strong  teams.  Defending  Notre Dame does have one  
champion Eastern Michigan, defending Division-11 national  advantage -the Irish will be running on their home course,  
champion Edinboro, Michigan  the  Burke  Memorial  Golf  
and Virginia are all powerful  Course. But Piane feels his op­ 
squads in Notre Dame's 'blue' (large school) race.  ponents have an even greater advantage.  
The Irish had a fine showing  
at  last  week's  National  Cat­ 
holics,  placing  second  in  a  see PlANE, page 10  


•
Rosenthal brings fan's perspective to AD job 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN life. 1 went to our soccer game pilot. There's very little that I us this year, and we'll get bet­some scholarships in particu­Sports Writer when we beat Indiana, and can do to goof things up. We ter at it as we go along. lar some of our non-revenue what voice I had left I then are, out of necessity, con­Those physical facilities are programs. I think it'll be a very 
Editor's note -This is the completely lost. stantly looking at the menu of going to beget support for the exciting time. second of a three-part inter­I think we who live in the opportunity for our students programs that are housed in 
Q: There's been a lot of talk
view with Notre Dame Athletic community are given a special here. We've got some signifi­them. Our swimming pool is a 
about either adding on to the
Director Dick Rosenthal. In window to the University that cant forces that will change focal point for giving the first 
present stadium or even build­
part two, Rosenthal shares his maybe we take a little for and augment what we've done two swimming scholarships 
ing a new one. Given your fin­
views on coming to the job granted. As I see people from in the Athletic Department we've had here. That's going to 
ancial background, do you
every state in the union coming before. Just the physical do tremendous things for our
Q: Do you think you bring have more of an insight on what
in now, It suddenly hit that it's facilities that are here. The two program. I'm hopeful that our 
more of a fan's or an alumnus' it's going to take to bring that
a pretty unique privilege that new Mondo tracks, outdoor and great track facilities might
perspective to the job having about?
we have. indoor -one the generosity of stimulate continued interest in
been in the community so long A: To be very honest, I
Special Olympics and the other that area and we could be very 
and having been a player here? Q: As you start to learn more haven't even begun to look at
the generosity of people who good in that area with these
A: I think in some ways I was about the program, are there or even think in terms of that.
made the Loftus building and new facilities.
probably a very active fan, at­any subtleties that you hadn't You're not the first one to have
the Mayo field and the Haggar 
tending games in many of the expected? What's been the I'm grateful because I think raised the question. It's some­
weight area all possible. The
sports. I was the kind of fan hardest thing you've had to I've arrived here at a time thing I think that, in its proper who could enjoy the good play learn. swimming pool and the new when several things have all priority within this University, even if it was made by the other A: No one could move into a tennis center have added a combined to offer a very bright will get attention. The aug­team. I was a very quiet spec­job like this at a time like this, whole new dimension to the op­outlook for the athletic pro­menting of our existing tator -more analytical than before the start of a major portunities to the University, grams that come out of this de­stadium or the building of a emotional. All that's changed, season, and have any primarily the students but the partment and are conducted by new stadium 'without knowing I can tell you that. I went to to semblance of hope in succeed­faculty and admistrators as this University. We've got has got to be a multi-, multi­our first football game, and I ing if they didn't have the kind well. Scheduling those build­some great new coaches, and million dollar kind of opera­was anything but analytical or of staff that we have here and ings, taking advantage of we've got some fine facilities. tion. It probably needs to seek quiet. I'd have to say it was everything hadn't been cared them, putting them effectively Clearly we've got finite re­
thrillingly emotional. I suspect for. From that standpoint to use in the best and proper sources, but that seems to be 
see AD, page 9
that's going to be a new way of we're operating on automatic way is something that's new to augmented with the advent of
l. 




