--~ -----------·-~--·-~------­
True colors-page 9 

VOL. XXI, NO. 80 THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1987 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Waite safe as group claims responsibility for abductions 
Associated Press (intelligence) agents." which U.S. Navy diver Robert Moussawi's remarks were Stethem was killed and 39 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -A pro­broadcast by the Voice of the Americans were held hostage Iranian Shiite leader said Wed­Oppressed radio station run by for 17 days. nesday that kidnapping is a the pro-Iranian Hezbollah -Fewer than half a dozen proper weapon in "the causes party of God. His Islamic Amal American men remain in west of Islam,'' but Moslem students organization is separate from Beirut. An estimated 50 Amer­marched to protest abductions 
ican women are there, most of of foreigners, including four of them married to Lebanese their teachers. Moslems. 
The fate of Anglican Church An anti-kidnapping march by envoy Terry Waite remained a hundreds of young Lebanese mystery. accompanied a one-day strike 
Waite vanished Jan. :?0 ~fter by about 50,000 students pro­leaving his hotel to negotiate testing the abduction of four with Shiite Moslems who have professors -three Americans held two Americans hostage and an Indian -from the Beirut since 1985. An unconfirmed University College campus last report by the official Kuwaiti Saturday. news agency said the kidnap­Moslem schools in west pers had him under a form of Beirut joined those with Amer­house arrest. ican, British and French af­An American was evacuated filiations in the strike, the . Terry Waite 
Wednesday from Moslem west second since gunmen disguised Beirut, where 11 foreigners Amal, Lebanon's main Shiite as police abducted the four 
have been seized in 12 days, to militia. educators. the city's Christian eastern sec­Officials in Bonn say the sep­tor. arate seizures of West German The latest kidn'ap victim was 
In Washington, the State De­businessman Rudolf Cordes, Saudi Arabian Khaled Deeb, partment announced restric­53, and engineer Alfred seized Monday night in a tions on travel to Lebanon in Schmidt, 47, were linked to the predominantly Shiite district an effort to force U.S. citizens arrest Jan. 13 in Frankfurt of near Beirut airport. to leave and discourage other Mohammed Ali Hamadi, a 
Moslem-controlled Channel 7 Americans from coming here. Lebanese Shiite. television said an anonymousHussein Moussawi, leader of The United States seeks to caller-Tuesday attributed the 
the pro-Iranian militia Islamic extradite him for trial in the abduction to the previously un­
Amal, said, "I support acts of 1985 hijacking of an American known Organization of Par­kidnapping against spies and TWA jetliner to Beirut, during tisans of Islamic Jihad. 
Life of single females discussed by panel 
By KAREN WEBB questioning herself, she said, ordinator of the Women's The Observer/Paul Oeschger Copy Editor helped her to work out her self­Studies Club at Saint Mary's,It's here somewhere conflict. also spoke on her temporary A panel of four Saint Mary's "I'm stronger as a person rejection of Catholic ways and students addressed the topic of (now). I don't always have the her subsequent reconciliation
Volunteer Tracy Thoman tries to touch her nose in an attempt "Single, Female, and 21," in answers but I know where to with the Church. 
to prove her sobriety to ND Security Officer Irv Sikorski. Both the second lecture of the series turn and I think now I'm start­Also raised in the CatholicThoman and Sikorski were part of the Alcohol Awareness Pro­"The Catholic Experience" ing over again as a Catholic. I Church, she said "I couldn't grams held this week which were sponsered by BACCHUS. 
Wednesday in Stapleton choose to be a Catholic now and question it or challenge it be­lounge. to remain a Catholic, and I like cause it was the only way I The panel, Student Body that. knew."Police administer field tests President Jeanne Heller, Vice "I think if you were to ask But her developing feminist President for Student Mfairs me if I would raise my children views began to conflict with her 
to show effects of alcohol 
Sarah Cook, Off-Campus Com­Catholic I would say yes, but I Catholic views, she said, so, "I missioner Jill Tiefenthaler, and would teach them to question." totally separated myself from Rebecca Hetland, student rep­Cook, an English-psychology the Church." By ROBERT HENNIG cerning drinking and driving, resentative to the Board of major, compared her Catholic "Soon I came to terms with Senior Staff Reporter including the changes that Regents, spoke on the evolution experience to what she sup­the fact that I was not gaining were enacted in 1982 to toughen of their Catholic faith and posed her mother's and grand­anything by leaving the Church 
Student Body President Mike existing laws. beliefs, illustrated by personal mother's would have been. but that I was losing a lot. Not Switek and Off-Campus Com­"We would like to educate experience. "The Catholic faith that they only did I lose my religion, I missioner Tracy Thoman were you on the use of alcohol and Heller, a senior English learned gave them comfort­lost my heritage and tradition, subjected to field tests to dem­drinking and driving rather major, spoke on the re­able answers to many ques­and in a sense I lost my home. onstrate the effects of alcohol than enforce (the law)," said evaluation of her personal reli­tions. The Catholic faith that I "I began my reconciliation at LaFortune Wednesday night Kubsch. gion. She said having been have learned sometimes gives with the Church, not as an in­as part of the scheduled pro­"The basic message is don't raised Catholic, "Catholicism me answers, but more and stitution but as a community. grams for Alcohol Awareness drink and drive," said John was something I took for most importantly it gives me "Catholicism had given me Week. Sheehy, BACCHUS president, granted ... I went through the the ability, strength, and strenth such as self-discipline, 
Indiana State Police officer about the week's activities. motions, but I never had to courage to ask questions of my a sense of community, and Kevin Kubsch and Irv Sikorski BACCHUS, a nationwide or­think about it. It was always God, my faith, myself, and most importantly a love of of Campus Security conducted ganization that promotes the something that was presented others. -people. the field tests on Switek and responsible use of alcohol, is to me and that I did, but it was "I am sure many others (who "My feminist views have Thoman. sponsoring the events. just part of being Catholic. It are) 21, female, and Catholic helped me to deal with my 
The pair ceased consumption The first program was held wasn't a choice that I had have many questions about wo­Catholic experience. The of alcohol about an hour prior on Saturday as members of the made." men in society and Church. Church has made its committ­to the program. Each was then Freshman Advisory Council A crisis in her life led her to "My Catholic experience ment to social justice, and led through three separate field conducted a lecture on the ef­lose faith in her religion, she now at 21 is to say the least a feminists I believe are con­tests used by officers to es­fects of alcohol and the restric­said, and only much later she question of challenge -to stay cerned with bringing justice to tablish probable cause for ar­tions on alcohol consumption at was forced to rethink her committed to the Church the oppressed. rest on a Driving Under the In­Notre Dame. stance, when "all of a sudden despite my questions because "Although as a single, Cath­fluence offense. "BACCHUS' philosophy alld there were questions that I of the hope I have for the olic, 21-year-old female I still 
Kubsch also gave a summary couldn't answer." Church." ,f the Indiana state laws con-See SWITEK,page 7 Working within herself and Tiefenthaler, founder and co-See SINGLE, page 5 
The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987 -page 2 

In Brief 
Although marijuana was found in his system, the Conrail engineer whose locomotive caused the fatal Amtrak crash that claimed 16 lives on Jan. 4, denies smoking marijuana in the cab that day . Federal inves­tigators have said there was "~ suffic~ent amount" of marijuana in 14-year veteran engmeer RlCk Gates system to indicate recent or chronic use. "What I do on my own time is my own business," Gates said. He declined further comment. -Associated Press 
A representative of Lee's rib and B-B-Q will go before an Alcoholic Beverage Commission court in In­dianapolis sometime in the future, according to Gale Lighthall, a worker for the restaurant-tavern. Lighthall met with a committee from the ABC yesterday. -The Ob­server 
Students should be able to drink but they should do it responsibly, says the Oregon State U. student senate. The group proposed creating a social hour in which light alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic beverages and food be served from 4 to 7 p.m. in the campus union. A 40-cent per-student fee would pay for the project. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
N eighborhoodStudy Help Programis sponsoring a day-long service retreat from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. this Saturday at the St. Joseph Bank in South Bend. The theme of the retreat will center on where service fits into one's life. Guest speakers include Father "Monk" Malloy and 
M.J. Murray, former director of Holy Cross Associates. Interested students should call 239-5293 to sign up. -The Observer 
The Great Hunger Cleanup will take place on April 11, 19871 at dozens of college campuses and cities across the nation. Proceeds from the event will go towards third world and local hunger projects. A meeting for stu­dents interested in organzing this event at Notre Dame are invited to a meeting tonight at 6 at the Center For Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Residence hall contracts forthe1987-88academic year have been sent to the residence halls. Any students now living on campus must sign and return their contracts to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5:00 p.m., February 2, 1987, if they desire to live on campus in the fall. Students who did not receive a contract, or have lost one, should come to the Office of Student Residences prior to the above date to obtain a duplicate card. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the ri,pht to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 

Like Erik Estrada's acting career, the sun will be non-existant tomorrow. It will be cloudy Thursday with a chance of freezing rain or sleet. Getting colder in the afternoon· as rain turns to snow. High of 34. -The Observer 

-o The _Qbsenrer 
Design Editor ...................... Rob Luxem Design Aulslant ................. Cathy Stacy Layout Staff ........................... Bob White Typesetter ............................ Jose Novas .................................. Becky Gunderman News Editor .................. Chris Bednarski Copy Editor ..................... Rachal Jarosh Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen VIewpoint Copy Editor .. Brian Broderick 
VIewpoint Layout.. ............. Alice Groner Accent Copy Editor......... Tracie Fetters Accent Layout.. ........... Katy Kronenberg Typist................................. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ................. Jane Kravcik SMC Day Editor ..... Therese Harrington Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer .................. Paul Oeschger 
The Ol)sernr (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tbe Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Madden's antics make finish of Super Bowl 'hilarious' 
By the middle of the fourth quarter, the result of Super Bowl XXI had been determined and like many of the preceeding Super Blowouts, the game seemed ready to end on a dull note. 
When a game ceases to be competitive, many fans tend to lose interest. By Sunday's fourth quarter, I was ready to lose interest. One thing, however, kept me involved with the telecast. No, it wasn't the presentation of the Vince Lom­bardi Trophy to the winners or even the hope of highlights from the halftime show. Instead, it was the end-of-the-game antics of CBS com­mentator John Madden. 
During the game's first three quarters, Mad­den had shown why he and his straight man Pat Summerall are considered by many to be the best announcing team in the business. He had knowingly and skillfully explained complex plays, making them seem simple to even the most casual fan, while Summerall eloquently described the play-by-play. 
With about six minutes remaining in the game, however, all of the important plays had been run and all the meaningfull commentary been spoken. It was time for Madden to take over. 
During the Giants first two playoff blowouts, Madden filled the final minutes of the game with his unique barroom humor. He had given a matchless "physics" lecture on the momen­tum behind Giants running back Joe Morris that was more confusing than a professor who takes an English as a second language course at night. He had introduced the "Bucket Chalk­board," to diagram linebacker Harry Carson's route to dump a cargo of Gatorade on Head Coach Bill Parcell's head. In a contest of the Super Bowl's magnitude, I was sure Madden would be in prime form. He didn't disappoint me. 
With about six minutes left in the game, he began when sideline sound equipment picked up the thundering crash of shoulder pads. "There's some contact down there, you notice that sound you hear. This game's in stereo. Being down there on the sideline you hear boom, whack, whack, whack, whack. But I don't know what it feels like in stereo. Is it boom-boomoo­oo-oo-oo-,oo-boom -boom?'' 
The camera then panned to sweaty 300-pound defensive lineman Jim Burt. "How does sweat look in stereo? How does a chewed mouthpiece look in stereo? How does spit sound in stereo?" Madden was on a roll. 
He knew there would be a "bucket ceremony" this week, and when CBS cameras showed three Gatorade buckets on the sideline, Madden jumped in. "There's a third bucket this week. I think what happened --There's always been like a mother and father. This is the father bucket. This is the mother bucket and since the last game they had a baby bucket. Well yah, they got married yah, and had a baby bucket." 

Chris Bednarski 
Assistant News Editor 
lffl{!(W""IIOJ-/ /-2'1-q 
Madden then attempted to diagram the path Giant linebacker Harry Carson would take to dump the Gatorade on his victims. The diagram ended up looking like a physician's signature. 
Madden had help during Sunday's game. He had props. The boys in the truck provided Mad­den with a graphic of the bucket, giving it's vital statistics. It holds ten gallons, weighs 12 pounds, is 23 V4 inches tall and has been in the league for three years, the graphic said. Mad­den took it from there. 
"Yah, Yah, I mean that's how big it is, I mean third year in the league, and then ya ask ques­tions like is it married? Bucket, you got a fam­ily? Ya Ya, got a baby bucket," he said. "See the baby can't sit up there with the mom and dad though." 
Throughout the course of the game I noticed the Slice blimp, in addition to the Goodyear blimp flying over the Rose Bowl. I had missed one blimp though. Madden pointed that out to me. 
"Ya know Pat, we had three blimps up there today. We had three blimps and two helicopters. But the three blimps, it was an NFL record, world record, ya, a world record. There were 
more blimps over a football game than any game in the history of the sport." 
Near the end of the game, buckets of Gatorade and water were dumped on Parcells. "Well, the Super Bowl is worth a double bucket. It really is," said Madden. 
Madden succeeded in turning another dull Super Bowl finish into a hilarious adventure. His performance in the telecast definately rated a "double bucket." 
****************************** 


NATIONAL CATHOLIC WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP 

FEBRUARY 1 , 1987 
10:00 AM IN THE PIT 

TEAMS PARTICIPATING: BOSTON COLLEGE SETON HALL LASALLE SIENA HEIGHTS LOYOLA ST. JOHNS MARQUETIE VILLANOVA DAYTON JOHN CARROLL LORAS COLLEGE 
COME OVER BEFORE THE NORTH CAROLINA GAME!!! 
!Pl§l:d}~fi§ 
****************************** 

-----~ -----~-----~-----------­
The Observer 

'tt~..
of 20% Discount sale items 
N.D..-S.M.C. Students 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
Services mark first anniversary of disaster 
Associated Press 
With monuments and memorial services, Americans mourned the seven Challenger astronauts Wednesday on the first anniversary of history's worst space disaster. 
Thousands of workers at 10 National Aeronautics and Space Administration centers around the nation observed 73 seconds of silence, 'the length of Challenger's final flight, at 
11 :38 a.m., the time the shuttle roared off an icicle-draped launch pad at Cape Canaveral. Wednesday also was cold, with a low of 33 degrees, a reminder of the conditions that contrib­uted to Challenger's loss. 
President Reagan, in taped remarks played at 'NASA canters, said that school teacher Christa McAuliffe and her six fellow astronauts had taught a "lesson of courage, spirit and love to America's children, and now it is for all of us to learn the lesson from them." 
Vice President George Bush met in his office with relatives of three of the astronauts. 
At the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, where the Challenger took off on its last flight, some employees cried openly, other fought back tears and several hugged one an­other, and tourist buses stopped in their tracks at 11:38 a.m. 
"A lot of people just wanted to be with themselves," said Terry Eddleman, a spokesman for the Marshall Space Flight Center at Huntsville, Ala. "It is not a happy day." 
Killed in the accident were Cmdr. Dick Scobee, Pilot Mi­chael Smith, McAuliffe and crew members Judy Resnik, Ronald McNair, Ellison Onizuka and Greg Jarvis. 
Jarvis' widow, Marcia, shunned any public appear­ance on the anniversary. "I'm going to spend that dav quietly on a trail somewhere .. . be­cause we always did things out­side," she said. 
Junior high school students paused for 90 seconds at 11:38 
a.m. at Lake City, S.C., McNair's hometown. 
Onizuka's family planned a happier observance Saturday gathering in Houston for ~ Hawaiian-style luau. "We promised Ellison a luau when he got back . . . and the luau never occurred," said Claude Onizuka, his younger brother. 
Texas Gov. Bill Clements designated Jan. 28 as "Chal­lenger Memorial Day': in his state. Oklahoma Gov. Henry Bellmon joined about 100 school children and others in 73 seconds of silence at the state Capitol. 
The Washington state Senate unanimously adopted a resolu­tion honoring the "bravery and citizenship" of Scobee, a Wash­ington native, and Minnesota Gov. Rudy Perpich announced plans for an endowed scholar­
ship in memory of McAuliffe with a goal of $9 million i~ public and private money. 
For some, it was a day to re­
member two disasters in the 
nation's space prorgram. 
About 90 people attended the 
dedication of a granite monu­
ment at the Michigan Space 
Center in Jackson, Mich., to 
Jarvis and to Roger Chaffee 
who died in the Apollo I launch 
pad fire 20 years ago Tuesday. 
Both were Michigan natives. 
"I think each of us lost some­thing on that day a year ago," former astronaut Jack Lousma, commander on the third shuttle fli~t, said at the dedication. 

~ ---------~--------·"·----...=-~...------~-­
Thursday, January 29, 1987 -page 3 
Rebels end occupation of complex in Manila 
Associated Press 
MANILA -The defense minister announced Thursday that 200 rebels had agreed to end their two-day occupation of a Manila broadcasting complex. 
"I'm glad to announce we have ended another episode in the history of distur­bances that have plagued us these many months," Defense Minister Rafael Ileto told reporters. 
The end of the occupation which began early Tuesday: was announced after a two­hour meeting between mili­tary leaders and Col. Oscar Canlas, who led the group of mutineers who took over the studios early Tuesday. 
Canlas refused to call the lifting of the occupation a surrender, saying "We never left the armed forces." Ileto said the ques­tion of punishment for the mutineers, whom the gov­ernment linked to ex­President Ferdinand E. Marcos, would be discussed later. 
President Corazon Aquino vowed Tuesday to punish "to the fullest extent of the law" the estimated 500 rebels who attempted to take over major media and military facilities in the capital. 
The mutineers at the television-radio complex were the last rebel holdouts. 
Pro-government troops surrounding the television and radio complex and fired about a dozen tear gas can­nisters shortly after a late Wednesday deadline ex­pired, but did not attack. 


Its devenp.m. Doyouknowwhere yourpaperis? 
Let's be real. Compare the equipment she's using to yours. If you were both trying to tunnel through a mountain, she'd have abulldozer and you'd have ashrimp fork 
Don't despair. Your problem is already half-solved. For alimited time, you can buy an Apple® Macintosh'" Plus or aMacintosh 512K Enhanced computer with Microsoft Work'i:_ for less money 
Which is wonderful. 
You get aMacintosh, with its speed, ease of use, and graphics capability. Plus, you get asoftware program that lets you use all this Macintosh power in all your subjects. 
Microsoft Work'i is not just one program, it's four integrated pro­grams: word processing, data-base management, spreadsheet with charting, and communications. 
Meaning you can put charts in your history essays. Spreadsheets in your economics papers. Call DowJones News;Retrieval at 2:00A.M. to get the facts for your journalism story due at 8:00A.M. 
So if you're taking more than one subject this semester, you should check out Macintosh and Microsoft Worh 
But don't wait till the eleventh hour. This offer will end soon. 
And your paper might stay out all night. 

Macintosh and Microsoft Works 
Applt and tbt Applt logo arr rqUttml tradmulrltsofA/JIM Corrt/Jfd"' lPK. Macintosh iJ t1 trwulnrltri ofAppk Co•P'dtr, IIU. Dow }oMS Nnn/lelritufll isarqUtefWI fT'I1dnurt o{ Dow}oMS & Cotwpculy, Inc. Microsoft is a rq(Umfl fniMMart of lrfkrosoft Cot'poraUoll 

The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987 -page 4 
~~~~------------------------------------------------------------­

AP Photo 

Hanging out at the beach 
A New Jersey native sought some sun at an beach which is covered with snow rather than unlikely time of the year on the Atlantic City sand. 
College president innocent of sex abuse 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-A jury Wednesday found the ousted president of Westfield State College inno­cent of sexually assaulting a student. · 
The Suffolk Superior Court jury deliberated 8 hours before acquitting Francis J. Pilecki of two charges of indecent assault and battery. 
Pilecki faces a second trial on two charges stemming from an alleged sexual assault of a second student. Each charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison. 
The case, which was moved across the state following in­tense publicity, prompted statewide investigations into the use of college funds after it was disclosed that a student was secretly given a $10,000 payment from college funds in connection with the sexual as­sault charges. 
Pilecki hugged his wife Juliana and their son and daughter after the verdict was read. 
When asked about the second 
trial, he said, "I haven't given 
it a thought." 
"I'm just very pleased," Pilecki said, adding that he just wanted "to go home with the family." 
Prosecutor William W. Teahan said he had no com­ment except to say "I feel we're going to have a second trial." 
Pilecki's attorney argued during the trial that the stu­dent, 21 at the time of the al­leged assault, could have rebuffed the president's ad­vance or left the room when Pilecki, 52, asked him to dis­robe and then grabbed his but­tocks. 
The former student declined to comment on the verdict. 
The defense disputed whe­ther the incident actually oc­curred, but said that even if it did, it clearly was between con­senting adults and did not con­stitute sexual assault. 
Pilecki, who had announced his retirement from the $80,413­a-year job effective Aug. 31, 1986, was suspended without pay after his June indictment. 
In closing arguments, defense attorney James St. Clair said the student, who wanted a career in college ad­ministration, consented to anything that might have hap­pened when he visited the college president's campus home in the summer of 1984. 
Teahan contended that ac­quitting Pilecki would be tan­sense as he might have, but tamount to declaring that the said the student was former student, now 23 and "paralyzed" during "a bizarre working at another school in game" of trust with the college the state, was a homosexual. president, "a physically large 
Teahan said the young man and practically powerful did not use as much common man." 
Summer Service Projects offer you the opportunity to give 8 weeks of service during the summer months in cities all over the country, in return you earn a $1200. Social Concerns Tuition Scholarship provided by the alumni clubs and the Andrews Scholarship Fund. 
Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Deadline is February 2. 

Terrorism suspect's brother arrested in West Germany 
Associated Press 
MERZIG, West Germany ­Police found an explosive cache after arresting a Lebanese terrorism suspect's brother and are investigating whether he ran a terror ring from West Germany, officials said Wednesday. 
The cache was hidden in a field six miles from the apart­ment in Merzig of Ali Abbas Hamadi, 28, a naturalized West German citizen arrested Mon­day night at the Frankfurt air­port. His brother is Mohammed Ali Hamadi, 22, an alleged hijacker of a TWA jetliner in 1985, whc was arrested at the airport Jan. 13. 
West Germany's ZDF televi­sion network said Tuesday night that Ali Abbas Hamadi 
·······VIDfO·••·•• • tifADOlJADTfDo INC. 

FREE MEMBERSHIP 
For all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Movie Rentals: Only$1.75 per day with 

student J.D. and membership card 
119 US 31 [next to Big C lumber] 277-1744 
ONLY 3 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS 
Merrill Lynch will be on campus 
February6 At Merrill Lynch, the creative thinking of our professionals has helped us earn a legacy of mnovation thats lasted more than 100 years­providing financial services to clients in Indi­
vidual, Corporate, Governmental and Institu­tional markets. To help us continue that legacy, we will be avail­
able to discuss career opportunities for: 
Consumer Markets Program Corporate Systems Program 



~Merrill Lynch 
Your world should know no boundaries. 
Merrill Lynch Is An Equal Opportunity Employer 
may have led a terror ring re­sponsible for several bombings in France last year and a June 1985 bombing that killed three 
people  at  the  Frankfurt  air­ 
port.  
Federal  officials  in  Bonn,  
speaking  on  condition  of  

anonymity, said police were probing the possible link. "All of these things are being inves­tigated. I can't tell you any more," one said. 
Ali Abbas Hamadi was ar­rested because police suspected he was involved in the abductions of two West Ger­mans in Beirut after his younger brother was arrested. 
Authorities have made several searches in and around this town near the French bor­der since the arrest of his bro­ther. 

.. 
The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 5 
Good friendship is groundwork of marriage, panel says 
By DIANE SCHROEDER Staff Reporter 
Agood friendship is the most important groundwork for a successful marriage, accor­ding to the ten panelists at last night's discussion entitled "A Realistic Look at Marriage." 
Both married and divorced panelists shared their thoughts and answered questions on the institution of marriage during the session which was spon­sered by the Saint Mary's sexuality education council. Saint Mary's sociology profes­sor Chuck Pressler moderated the event which was held at the Haggar College Center par­lour. 
"You take background, fam­ily and values, into a mar­riage," said Nancy Schoeneman, assistant direc­tor of the counseling and career 
Graduate 
withfour of the 
most 
unpresstveletters ofrecom­mendation. 
Army ROTC. 
Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps on your resume says you have more than potential. You have experience. 
Its the college elective that adds leadership training to your education. And that gives you the kind of decision-making responsibility and experience most other graduates will have to wait years for. 
Whatever your major, find out more about the college elective that makes your college education more valuable. 
Talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
Interested? Call Capt. Domingo 
239-6264 

' 
Cf) 
~ 
UJ 
u 

developement center at Saint Mary's. Schoeneman, who married upon graduating from college and divorced eight years later, said marriage is only the beginning of commit­ted love, and not the other way around. 
"The romance stage often leads to a power struggle stage," said Schoeneman, "and you need to be open to each other's as well as your own needs. Committment is the result of that give and take process." 
According to Schoeneman, we learn how to love and parent from our parents, but it is also important to learn from other experiences. She recommen­ded the books "Couples' Jour­ney" and "Superwoman Syndrome." Before making a committment to marriage, Schoeneman also suggested pre-cana counseling which is pre-marital counseling through the Church. 
Ken and Joan Milani, who have been married for 23 years, said they support pre-cana counsling. 
"Although at the time I would have rather been at a pre-game tailgater, Joan's urging of the pre-cana counseling definitely helped our marriage before we even got into it," said Ken Milani. "Being married has al­lowed me to drink from another cup, to experience areas I 
otherwise would not have on my own." 
Most of the panelists agreed that communication skills and a sense of committment were important when the deciding to marry. Ken Milani added that physical attraction didn't hurt either. 
Milani added "Variety, con­tact with different views, and concentration on relationships with others and most impor­tantly, with my wife." 
Saint Mary's philosophy pro­fessor Bill Hawk and his wife Jean who have been married for 16 years, spoke about the balence they try to maintain in their relationship. They said their main concern is for 

Advisory board holds first meeting 
By SHEILA KANEHANN Goodwill parking lot for Five­Staff Reporter Points bar patrons, said Student Board Vice President 
Notre Dame's student advi­Don Montanaro, a member of sory board, created by the Of­the board. fice of Student Affairs last se­Montanaro said he hopes the mester to consult with a South board can work out plans for Bend community group, met student aid to help take care of for the first time last week. the parking lot. 
The six-member board dis­He added that he also hopes cussed the re-opening of the the board will "kick in money 
ND AVE APTS. 
arly Bird Specia~ 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completelyfurnished 

Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 


THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE 
KAPLAN 

STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 

The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAll DAYS. MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WE ARE ENROWNG NOW! 
1717 E. South 8end Ave. Phone 219/272-4135 South Bend, IN lt6£37 

for lighting and clean-up" of the parking lot. . •1 
The advisory board works with the local community or­~ ganizing group, Neighborhood 
~ 
Housing Services (NHS) of 
1

South Bend, under the direction of executive director Anne 1 Mannix. 
The student board was estab­1 lished to work with the group j 
1
on problems of mutual concern 
1
to Notre Dame off-campus stu­
1
dents and their South Bend 
neighbors, according to Assis­
tant Vice President for Student 
Mfairs Sister Jean Lenz. 
"Our students hope to work 
with NHS on such issues as fin­
ding student housing in the 
South Bend area and becoming 
good neighbors," Lenz said. 
The advisory board mem­bers, five of whom live off campus, are Tracy Thoman, John Ginty, FredPugliano, Ann Gibson, Diane Tinley and Mon­tanaro. 
Montanaro said the advisory board will "get together with the people of the neighborhood and let them know we care. They are concerned about living in a nice neighborhood, and so are we." 
About 1,500 of Notre Dame's 
7.544 undergraduates live off campus, as do about 1,050 post­baccalaureate students. 
Single 
continuedfrom page 1 
have a long way to go with my relationship with the Church, I feel now that I realize that Cat­holicism doesn't have to be a contradiction in my life." 
Rebecca Hetland, Campus Munistry representative to stu­dent government and a senior English major, spoke on how three homilies which she delivered at Saint Mary's 
helped her to re-evaluate her sense of faith. "The unwilling­ness of all of us to confront that which is most painful in our lives, that is our 'humanness,' Hetland said was an obstacle in her faith. 
"I talk about this aspect of humanness because it was in discovering that I must come of terms with that humanness that I discovered the person of Jesus Christ. I consider that a point of conversion for me." 
"It was then that I moved from a time of burning ques­tions and unresolved answers, ... from an existence of wan­dering aimlessly to an exis­tence which celebrated God." 

The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 6 
Fruit and vegetables could reduce stroke risk says study 
Associated Press ifornia, San Diego, said the re­search is the first to find that 
BOSTON -Eating an extra people with relatively high helping of fresh fruit or levels of potassium in their vegetables each day could cut diets have fewer strokes. the risk of stroke nearly in half by increasing the body's supply "The results indicate that of potassium, a study con­one extra serving of fresh fruits cludes. or vegetables each day may 
Potassium is found abun­decrease the risk of stroke by dantly in many kinds of food, as much as 40 percent, regard­especially fruits and less of other known risk fac­vegetables. The new research tors," she said. suggests that even a small in­crease in the daily intake of this She cautioned that her fin­element can significantly dings must yet be duplicated reduce the hazard of stroke. by other researchers. But in the 
Alumni illuminate future

meantime, eating extra fruits Dr. Elizabeth Sarrett-and vegetables can't hurt, as 
Michael Broughton, Anita Chua, Clara Wilkins,

Connor, a co-author of the long as people don't increase 
Jennifer Hem and Tony Lee shared some

study at the University of Cal-their total daily calories. 
smiles, some memories and some free food and 

Hall apologizes to Nicaragua upon return to United States 
Associated Press threatened to try him for few shouted questions as he
the shouts of reporters waiting Hall's family was trying to ar­was hustled on the waitingon the airport sundeck above range a complete medical ex­espionage.
MIAMI -Soldier of fortune him, and an airport security amination for him in Miami Before leaving Nicaragua, plane of Aeronica, the Sam Nesley Hall, apologizing car immediately led the van off before going on to Dayton. Hall said he was not mistreated Nicaraguan national airline. for his actions after 1 month in during his detention. "Prison
the field. Hall was arrested Dec. in a
Nicaraguan jails on spy "He is being examined at the restricted area of the Punta authorities were terrific. They In San Jose, Hall was taken charges, returned Wednesday V.A. hospital," said Veterans Huete air base, 13 miles north­treated me like a human by a U.S. embassy vehicle from 
to the United States and was 
Administration spokeswoman east of Managua. Authorities being," he said. the Aeronica to the Laesa 
taken to a government hospital Donna St. John in Washington. said they found maps and Nicaraguan officials had flight, bypassing normal im­for an examination. "As of right now he has not sketches of military targets, planned an airport news con­migration procedures that 
"I just have one thing to say 
been admitted." crudely drawn on hotel station-ference, but Hall was late in would have delayed his depar­to the Nicaraguan people," Hall told reporters before boarding a flight in from Managaua to Costa Rica on Wednesday morning. "I'm sorry I tried to ambush them." 


Nicaraguan officials said they were releasing Hall, 49­year-old brother of Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, because he showed signs of mental insta­bility. 
Last month, they permitted captured American mercenary Eugene Hasenfus to return home despite a 30-year sen­tence for aiding the Contra rebels, who seek to overthrow 
Nicaragua's  leftist  govern­ 
ment.  
At  the  White  House,  

presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said of Hall's release, "they should have done it ear­lier." 
Hall flew from San Jose, Costa Rica, to Miami aboard a Laesa, Costa Rican airlines, jetliner. When he arrived in Miami about 12:25 p.m., a half­dozen, unsmiling airport secur­ity men whisked him off the plane and put him in a van, without his going through the normal Customs and immigra­tion procedures. Airport offi­cials said Hall's brother was waiting in the van. 
Hall, wearing a pink T-shirt and tan pants, looked calm as he left the plane with his attor­ney, Gary Froelich of Dayton, Ohio. He did not acknowledge 
Froelich had said earlier that stuffed in his and arriving and answered only a ture. 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD Universitv of Notre Dame 
presents 

SPR/NfJ BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
Ritht on the beach * Ritht in the middle ol the Stl'ip 
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: 
Driving Packafie Jr. 189 • Seven nights accommodations at the totally new Riviera
Without TransportatiOn...._ 'f Resort Hotel. located right in the middle of the strip at 505 
Quad Occupancy "' North Atlantic (AlA) This hotel has been totally reno­vated. making it one of the nicest hotels in the m1ddle of the strip. The Riviera has agreat cafe restaurant. one of 
Full Packafie the nicest pool decks anywhere. pool bar. and a niQht­
With TransportatiOn...._ 'fJ.-219 club. Available are hotel rooms·for four people and suites 
Quad Occupancy"' that sleep six (with kitchenette). Both have air conditiOn­ing. color TV. and great new furnishings. 
March 13-22. 1987 
• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via luxury high­way coaches to Ft. Lauderdale. Florida leaving Friday. March 13. Unlike others. we use the newest style buses available. 

• 
Pool deck parties every other day. 

• 
An entire list of bar and restaurant discounts for you to



To Sign Up 
use to save money at places you would go anyway.Or For More Info • The services of full time travel representatives available daily to throw parties and take good care of youCall 239-7757 • All taxes and gratuities. NOTRE 
Arrangements by 
ECHO TRAVEL INC. 

•mam 
em1AU • HOURS: IIIE lAUD M.-TH. ut1111 • HilA 9 am-1 0 pm BEER
-----+---...-t. Fri. &Sat. 
Ellltll !; (2 m1les from campus, 9 am-11 pm:1 corner of Ed1son & Grape) 
~2~~1rth !!~!. M~!~~-t~ 
(cases) 

~-------------­
KEGS

LIQUOR 1.75 I Bud Quarts.. $10.99 
1.75 I J & B. ••••••••••$17.99 (15.6 gal.) Lite (24 cans).$7.59 Glenmore Vodka..$7.99 1.75 I 1.75 I Bud••••• $29.99 Miller Draft••••$7.99 
1.75 I Old Thompson •••$8.99 Walker's Gin • .$8.99 (24 cans) Lord Calvert•••••• $9.99 (blend) 750 ml Busch••• $24.99 Old Style••••• .$7 .39 
1.75 I 750 ml Peach Tree (24 cans) Beefeater••••••••$17.99 Absolute Vodka • .$8.99 Schnapps•••• $4.99 Lite••••••$32.99 King Case•••• $5.99 


Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 7 

The Observer 
Empty alcohol bottles cause problems in auditorium 
By SHARON HEGG Staff Reporter 
The litter and empty alcohol bottles being left in the engi­neering auditorium after Friday and Saturday night movies has become an increas­ing concern to ti:.e administra­tion and student leaders, who met recently to discuss the p.:oblem. 
Student Movie Commis­sioner Charles Lobdell said that although administrators have issued no ultimatum, they are very serious about improv­ing the situation. 
"I wish students would stop bringing alcohol into the auditorium," Lobdell said. "They are increasing the odds of no more movies in the engi­neering auditorium which is es­sentially the only place to show movies on campus." 
-~~~~IQ>~«?o~~,q, 
~ J11!J\[J02\_P.f4!1('E:J{'IS' WE'E~:J{'lJ § ~ '])J:A[_:A[_'F!l{_M{'lJ 'l'f!l'BL'E ~ 
§  2\..'E(jISP1(.9lfTIG:J{S  §  
§  Monday, j'ebruary 2ru£ and  ~  
~ §  'Tuesday, j'ebruary 3rd 7-lOP.!M.  §!  
~  9{_']) !Rgom, 2ru£ J"foor La1'ortune  
§  You do not fiave to sit witfi tfie same peop{e  

I 
for 6runcfi anddinner. Jllssignment.s wi[[6e done randomly 6y a computer. . (jroups of9 Preferred. ~©\Nit\@ 
0r·'-&h~~~«?'>«?'>~~<.Q>cb><b>~t.Q> 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES NEEDS STUDENTS ASSISTANCE 
FOR 
Junior Parents Weekend February20, 21, & 22, 1987 


300 Energetic and Talented Students Needed for this Traditional Event. 
Notre Dame Students -Saint Mary's 
( 

Students -Holy Cross Students canpick up sign-up sheets at South Dining Hall LowerLevel or North Dining Hall 

Manager's Office. 
Waiters, Waitresses, laborers, Expediters are all needed! 
Maintenance has been moni­toring the amount of refuge left in the auditorium, said William MacWhorter, director of build­ing services. 
"There has always been pop cans and candy wrappers, but now they have had to clean up vomit off the carpet," said MacWhorter. 
MacWhorter said different types of movies seem to attract different types of students. 
Lobdell agreed, saying that "the rowdy-action movies (which bring in more money) also tend to bring in more beer." 
According to Lobdell, the problem has been on and off in the past. 
However, MacWhorter said, "it seems to be a growing prob­lem for the janitors to clean up. There has been damage to 
a 

chairs and table arms broken off." 
The first major complaints about the situation in the engi­neering auditorium were received last year. "The stench from (the litter) not being cleaned up all weekend inter­feres with Monday classes," said Lobdell. "We are -now working with managers, rein­forcing their job description 
--------------------------------------------~--­
and having a group to clean up afterward." 
Don Montanaro, student body vice president, said he be­came aware of the problem late last semester. He wrote a letter to The Observer appealing to students not to bring alcohol into the engineering auditoriU'm. 
"I am hoping that students will assume responsibility for something that is for them," 
Montanaro said Wednesday. "Using the auditorium is a 
privilege,  if  we  abuse  the  
privilege  it  will  be  taken  
away."  

Notre Dame Security sup­ports the student run movies, according to Phil Johnson, as­sistant director of Security. He said Security is concerned that "the University alcohol policy is not being followed in the en­gineering auditorium. 
lecture on the health effects of alcohol in the New Orleans room of LaFortune. 
"America has obviously picked alcohol as our drug of choice," said Alley. "We get a lot of young people dying way before they need to die. 
"One out of 1000 people will die in acute heroin withdraw!, one in 20 will die in acute alco­hol withdraw!," he continued. 

Alley described two hor­mones which affect brain func­tions. In approximately 20 per­1
,
cent of the population, these 
1
hormones exist in abnormal 
1

levels. "In our poulation, there are 1 
1

those people that can consume 1 and metabolize alcohol and 1 mind altering drugs at a very 1 different rate," said Alley. It is 1 this minority of the population 1 
1
that is susceptible to al­
coholism. 
"If you can learn anything 
from this," said Alley, "The 
risks are really great." 
"Students need to be ed­
ucated," said Sheehy, indicate­
ing that BACCHUS plans an­
other alcohol awareness 
program in March. 

Switek 
continuedfrom page 1 
Doctor Hofman's philosophy is (that) you've got to go with the freshman where their attitudes haven't formed yet," said Sheehy. 
On Monday and Tuesday, similar demonstrations on the effects of alcohol were held at Alumni and Zahm. 
"At Stanford and Zahm, there was a great response, there were over a 100 people each night," said Sheehy. 
The same demonstration was repeated Wednesday night at Flanner, in addition to being held at LaFortune. 
Earlier Wednesday, Doctor Terry Alley, medical director of an alcohol treatment pro­
'1ood Selection 
,................. 
FraiMI, Jtwtlry, etc. 
DMC.FLOSS 
'StAISEST DISPLAY OF 
CIDSS-SnTCH SAMI'I.ES EWE 8 ME 
2532 Ml8h•.U Ave., loulh hnd (3 blocks Eaat of Ironwood) 
NATURAL FIBERS 
• CoHon 
•Mohair . •Wool 
Call for dlrecHons 288-2385 


"ieVV~_O_i_n_t______________Thu~rsday_,Jan-uary-29,19-87-p-age8 


Minority admissions given greater priority 
It has been a hard struggle, but due that all counselors must make 25% of 
to a strong and well-defined commit­their visits to minority high schools. 
ment, the Admissions Office has shown Furthermore, Rucker indicated that 
much progress in the area of minority "parents have been asked to partici­
recruitment. After a miserable 1984-85 pate in their son's and daughter's col­
freshman class, there has been a lege decision making process." 
marked increase in minority enroll­
ment. Under the direction of Rosie Goins stresses that "the future is Courtney and Director Kevin Rooney, hopeful with the addition of the new last year was the second best recruiting Minority Affairs Director Ken Dur­year in Notre Dame's history. gans. He is attempting to make things on campus more positive and therefore Mari Fuentes is making the Admissions job easier. Because if students are happy here and 
Marty Rogers 
stay here, then our base will continue
guest column to grow and everything will become a 
lot easier. Right now things are difficult 
And the future seems even brighter. but we are making steady progress." Courtney has since left, but now under But amidst all this optimism and the capable direction of Counselors hope, it is still necessary to realize that John Goins and Jackie Burns-Rucker the numbers are low and there is a long the projections for this year tend to in­way to go. At least now, though, the dicate even higher numbers. "Present­University is heading in the right direc­ly, we are at 10% above norm ratio in tion and the previous downward trend minority applicants as compared with has been turned around. How low are last year's figures. We had the all-time the numbers? Black students currently greatest number of black applicants number about 2.8% of the student body, and acceptances in early-action; Hispanics 3.2%, and there are only 26 hispanics were 30-40% above last year's American Indians on campus. (As an numbers as well. Not only has there aside, it is interesting to note that only been an increase in the number of ap­2 Black Americans are enrolled in Saint plicants, but also the quality," said Mary's.) Two or three years of steadily Goins. improving numbers does not equal suc­
cess. There must be dedication over the 
The relatively new committment by long haul -a yearly rededication to the Admissions Office has been progress. Otherwise, the recent gains evidenced in a variety of ways over the could easily be lost. past two years. Through the creation Finally, it seems that while Admis­of our positions, Admissions has in­sions is trying to carry its weight, there volved more students in the recruiting is a question as to whether a commit­process. It has been shown that stu­ment to improving the numbers and dents recruiting students is the most lives of minority students exists in the effective way to interest high school University as a whole. The key to the seniors in applying. Students now par­Admissions Office is that their commit­ticipate regularly in every aspect of the ment has been translated from words admissions process from phone calls to action. There is no lip service, only and letter writing to prospective stu­real service. And the rest of the Uni­dents, to high school visitations and to versity would do well to follow its guide. the hosting students. For if students are not satisfied once 
But incorporating students is far they get here, if retention is low, then from the only advancement. Renewed the efforts of the Admissions Office assistance from minority alumni has may well be in vain and indeed a dis­also been a significant factor as has the service to prospective high school revision of admissions literature so as seniors. to further appeal to applicants of all ethnic backgrounds. In attempting to Mari Fuentes is a sophomore business add greater diversity to the University, major and Marty Rogers is a junior the Admissions Office has also dictated economics major. 


Doonesbury 
JEFF, mowseoss 
5AIO rrPIA~ OI<AY 
fOR PA{)f71! 70 WORJ< ATHOM&. YlVWON'T HAV/3 7lJ GO TO OAY 
CAI?e ANYMORE. 
/ 
THAT aJ4Y /AI£ CAN GET CAOf (J'f}{ER AlJT'T/£ 8ETTE3.R . -OAOOY5 (j()ING 7D TAK/3 /..OTS OF BREAKSAN[)HELPYOIJUI/7H 

WHATEVtR IT15 YOU lXJ TO FlU UP YCXJR PAY! 
/ 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the J=ditoriai Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
P.O.Box Q 
Teams perform poorly without fans' support 
Dear Editor: 
One of the most disappointing aspects of the Notre Dame sports scene over the past few years is the lack of per­formance of the student body. There was a time when visiting teams did not enjoy appearances at the stadium or the ACC because there were two teams to beat, the athletes and the students. The records of the football or basketball teams didn't matter. Momentum and adrenalin were created by noise and more noise which led to many upsets. 
That ability has recently waned. The student body no longer has the creativity, knowledge of the games, desire, or leadership to create an at­mosphere that truly strengthens their feams. Joe Paterno recently said that the mystique of visiting Notre Dame no longer has an impact on opposing teams. He is correct. The mystique of Notre Dame is its spirit, regardless of odds. The present student body forgets the part about " ... what tho' the odds ... " 
I attended the recent Notre Dame­West Virginia basketball game. The student body didn't know whether to stand up or sit down, but in either case they made no noise. Some students even left with three minutes to go in the game. The students seem to know nothing about the impact that loud, in­cessant, obnoxious, turnover-creating noise has on opposing teams. 
It used to be that Notre Dame could count on upsets and come from behind victories in part because of the student body. With a little bit more noise, West Virginia might not have run their of­fense so well. Seems like upsets are now going to be real miracles. Just ask your­self if this student body can help beat North Carolina, DePaul or Duke this year. 
Jack Hannigan Class of 1969 
Voter participation is only means of change 
Dear Editor: 
Parietals, library hours, bank hours and comprehensive exams are all is­sues that have passed or failed due to participation in the Saint Mary's com­munity. Several decisions affecting our school and social lives may or may not have been to the majority's liking. Of­ten we find ourselves complaining about a particular policy or social event during the course ot the year. Unfor­tunately, complaints to our roommates and peers do not make the necessary changes. 
The time has come again for new leaders to be chosen, and believe it or not, everyone's vote is important. In the past, voter percentages have been low, but complaints have been high. A major reason for this lack of participa­tion can be attributed to voter apathy -thinking one's vote will not make the difference in the final decision. This at­titude, though understandable, cannot be acceptable when seeking strong and competent leadership. My message to Saint Mary's students is to be aware of the upcoming elections including hall, class and student body races. Take the initiative to familiarize yourself with the candidates and exercise your right to vote. Odds are complaints will decrease, while social and academic satisfaction will increase. 
The dates for Saint Mary's elections are as follows: student body, February 18; class, February 18; hall, to be de­termined. 
Heather Miller 
• LeMans Hall 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the. growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a dif­ference. Write to P .O.Box Q, Viewpoint Department, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
Garry Trudeau 
MOMMY! 
PAVVYS CUT IT ACTING OUT; IQE.JRD! RICK' 
""' ~ 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski 
Quote of the day 
"To call women the weaker sex is a libel: it is man's injustice to woman. If by strength is meant moral power, then woman is im­measurably man's superior. If non-violence is the law of our be­ing, the future is with women." 
Mohandes K. Gandhi 
(1869-1948) 
"Young India" 
Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ........................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Malone Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November3, 1966 

Accent 
Artist shows true colors 
TRACIE FETTERS 
features copy editor 
I 
magine a man with ines­timable determination. Stir in the concepts of truth, honesty, and beauty and you have the perfect recipe for an artist. Albert Summerlin is just such a man. 
His art inspiration not only comes from everyday-life scenes and people, but his in­spiration also arises from his inherent need to give life to the images in his mind. This desire to glorify expression, emotion and the humanistic element of life is evident in his representa­tion of University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh. 
The Hesburgh sketch, taken from a photograph, is remark­able in a truer-than-life sense. Summerlin said the motivation to do this portrait came from the photograph itself in which he recognized a great potential for recreating "that mysterious, subtle smile." 
Su-mmerlin met Hesburgh for the first time this January and said, "There's always been a certain mystery about him and I think it's really neat that a man of his caliber has time for small concerns." 
Summerlin has never had any formal art instruction, ex­cluding some commercial art courses at Ivy Tech. His talent comes from within. "The inspi­ration is there, I don't try to analyze it. I work with it; it's always been there," Summerlin said. 
Although Summerlin knew he always wanted to be an artist, there was a period in his life when he abandoned his paint­ing. There were too many other pressing committments that occupied his time. Many years later, after an accident that ren­dered him blind in one eye, he decided to return to his art. 
Summerlin faced the chal­lenge of relearning his craft without the ability of depth per­ception. Instead of decreasing and limiting hts talent, his skill and talent intensified. Summer-
Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 9 


lin attributes this mastering of his skill to his age-gathered wisdom and a more serious appreciation of the process behind art. 
Summerlin focused on com­mercial art because "I don't like the idea of an artist getting rich after he's dead," he joked. Summerlin's real pleasure comes from pursuing his own interests and ideas, not from receiving a commission. Sum­merlin does most of his art work in his spare time, either in the basement of Declo in his freetime or in his studio at Col-
Summerlin in progress fax Cultural Center on the weekends. He said if his art ever became an obligation he would not feel as comfortable with the art or himself. 
If he's feeling good about himself, he's feeling good about his art. "Art is my little girl, my woman," said Sum­merlin. "Sometimes we fall out, then we regroup. There are arguments and uncertainties but I sleep on them for a while and then the problem is solved." 
Does Summerlin have a dream? Of course. He wants to 
The Observerffodd Tucker 
sit back, settle down and just concentrate on art. "I want to be what I call an artist; some­one who really knows art and has the intellect of an educated artist," said Summerlin. 
"''d like recognition by my peers along with input from other professionals. I want to know the language of art so I can talk about my art and im­prove it with new techniques," continued Summerlin. 
"Right now, my art speaks for itself. If it didn't, that would mean I would have to. I'd like to be able to do that." 

A tribute to the misrepresented Wolfe 
Special to The Obsever 
L
ook Homeward: A Life of Thomas Wolfe" (Little, Brown and Company, February 4, 1987, $24.95) is the first comprehensive biogrpahy of one of the most influential and most misunderstood writers in our country's literary history. Pulitzer Prize-winning biog­rapher David Herbert Donald ("Charles Sumner and the Coming of the Civil War"), the only person to whom all of Wolfe's diaries, correspond­ence, manuscripts, and notes have been available, spent seven years researching the complete Wolfe archives. Donald gives us a compas­sionate biography of the enig­matic writer whose life was the basis of his art and shows that Wolfe was a careful and self­conscious li craftsman. 
Contrary to the widely held view of wolfe as an artless writer who occasionally achieved some remarkable ef­fects by pouring out millions of words that had to be selected, shaped, and formed into some­thing resembling novels by his editors, Donald demonstrates that Wolfe, the best-educated American novelist of his gener­ation, was one of the earliest literary modernists. Much in­fluenced by the novels of James Joyce and the tech­niques of the cinema, he was an experimental writer con­stantly trying out new forms and styles in his fiction. Like Ernest Hemingway, D.H. Lawrence, and Henry Miller, he drew heavily upon his own ex­periences in fashioning his novels. Donald, who has inter­viewed scores of Wolfe's friends, associates, and enemies, analyzes the mixture of autobiography and fiction 

-

that makes up Wolfe's novels. 
Here, for the first time, is an 
unvarnished account of the squalid and loveless household 
in which Wolfe lived as a child. Here, too, is the full story, told with complete candor and ex­plicitness, of Wolfe's turbulent affair with Aline Bernstein, one of the notable love stories in literary history. 
One of the most controver­
sial aspects of "Look 
Homeward" involves Donald's 
exploration of the relationship 
between Wolfe and Maxwell E. 
Perkins, his celebrated editor at 
Charles Scribner's Sons. At­
tempting to make Wolfe's fic­
tion more conventional and 
more salable, Perkins became 
deeply involved in shaping his 
books. With scrupulous fair­
ness to both Wolfe and Perkins, 
"Look Homeward" shows how 
the writer came to exercise 
such control over the author's 
creative processes that Wolfe, 
with indescribable anguish, felt 
forced to assert his indepen­
dence by breaking from 
Perkins, whom he loved and respected more than any other man. 
"Look Homeward" also ex­plores questions regarding the shaping and editing of Wolfe's posthumous novels, "The Web and the Rock" and "You Can't Go Home Again". There has been considerable controversy over the role played by Edward 
C. Aswell of Harper's, Wolfe's last editor, with some scholars even suggesting that these novels were the work of the editor, and not of Wolfe him­self. In the final chapter of "Look Homeward", Donald ad­dresses the questions about the authorship and authenticity of these novels: "I find it ab­surd to speak of Aswell as the 'author' of wolfe's posthumous novels .... Except for the intro­ductory passages linking the 'books' in these novels and for very occasional transitional sentences or paragraphs, Thomas Wolfe wrote these novels. They are not spurious or forged, and they are not the work of Edward C. Aswell." 
However, Donald argues, "It 
The Observer Accent department announces the following promotions. to the position of copy editor: Tom Beatty, a junior from Farmington, Conn.; Tracie Fetters, a junior from Ashtabula, Ohio; and Cindy Petrites, a freshman from Hous­
ton. 
Assuming the position of assistant features editor last semester was Mary Reynolds, a senior from Edina, Minn. 
Dane Galden, a junior from Columbus, Ohio, became the Scene assistant editor. 
is equally misleading to speak of Aswell's work on Wolfe's posthumous novels as simply that of an editor... Greatly ex­ceeding the professional re­sponsibility of an editor, Aswell took impermissible liberties with wolfe's manuscript, and his interference seriously eroded the integrity of Wolfe's text. Far from deserving com­mendation, Aswell's editoral interference was, both from the standpoint of literature and of ethics, unacceptable." 
In "Look Homeward" Donald untangles the complexities and contradictions of Thomas Wolfe's life and work. and brings a rare depth of under­standing and appreciation to his subject. 
Tracing the struggles of a young genius against the restrains of convention and propriety, Look Homeward is a moving account of the brief, turbulent life of a major Ameri­can writer. At the same time it is a perceptive study of how American culture has shaped and limited its creative artists. 



~--~------~--------------------------------------------------·--~ ------­
T__h_e_O_b_s_e_rv_e_r_______________________________________________________________________________________T~h~u~r~s~d=ay~,January29, 1987-page1U 
Sports Briefs · 
An exercise and conditioningprogram begins Feb. at the ACC. All students are invited to attend. The sessions will be progressive and run from Feb. 2 through March 11. Sessions are held Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday afternoons from 5 to 6 p.m. -The Observer 
The SMC varsity track team will have a meeting Monday, Feb. 4 at 4:30 p.m. at the Angela Lounge con­cerning the spring schedule. For more information contact 284-5548. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will have an aerobic workout for all members tomorrow at 5:15p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Off Campus hockey team's game for tonight has been cancelled. Practice will be held at the same time. -The Observer 
The ND Kung Fu club will hold workouts this Saturday at 3 p.m. instead of 6 p.m. at room 219 Rockne. 
-The Observer 
Cup 
continuedfrom page 16 
of the America's Cup with a 
burp and a, "So What?", now 
he's likely to burp, salute the 
flag, and yell, "Maim those 
Aussies." 
The Australians meanwhile, along with the New Zealanders (who lost to the USA last week in the semifinals), have done little to spare the jingoism. Why, the New Zealanders even "It's going to be interesting
Rivers 
to see if I need to give him more rest in games so he can finish
continuedfrom page 16 
stronger." As a result, Scott Hicks could his junior point guard the rest be seeing more time at theof the season. 
point-guard spot, while Jamere"I'm very concern.~d about Jackson and Sean Conner willthe way he played last night," fill in at the second guard.
said Phelps. "I've never seen him throw up two air balls 
before. The continued emergence of 
broke the tradition of the semi­final loser offering assistance to the Cup challenger. Connor and his Hahvad accent were too much for even the Kiwis . 
All of this means we're going to be seeing and hearing a ship load of America's Cup stories in our papers and on our televi­sions over the next week. And with this will come the greatest number of patriotic statements over a minor sports event since the US and USSR luge teams met in the Olympics. 
Take this comment from one Gary Voce will be another thing to watch tonight. Phelps noted that his center's rebounding and post defense were most needed by the team, and that his improved scoring, such as Tuesday night's 14-point showing, is a bonus for the team. That could also go for the ACC crowds, who have taken a liking to Voce's performance. 

member of the Australian syndicate, for instance: "These races are like street fights." 
Now, I've seen a few street fights and usually the knots in­volved aren't the kind that drive sails but rather the kind that wind up on someone's head. Sure, they christen boats by breaking a bottle on the side, but in a street fight they break them over a slow-reacting per­son's cranium. 
All in all, a street fight would be a lot more interesting. 
The Obsernr Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classllieds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-iiay classllleds is 3 p.m. All classllleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
PRO· TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277·5833 
WORDPROCESSING 277·8131 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new loca· lion: 808 Howard St .. just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week 1 0·530, ph. 233· 2342. Bnng 1n th1s ad and receive $5 off every O<der of $50 or morel 
All students are invited to attend an ex· erclse cond"loning program to be held 1n the north dO<ne of the A.C.C. Theses· a1ona which wilt be progreaaive will run from Feb. 2·Mar. 11 on Mon., Tues., Thurs., and Fri. aHernoons from 5:00· 6:00p.m. 
We've got the BALLS and the brooms, so sign up today IO< the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices. 2nd noor LaFortunelll 
LOST/FOUND I 
Found-a DETEX outs1de of Senior Bar weekend of Jan. 16. If ncould be yours, call John at 1706. 
LOST TAN WALLET. PLfASE FIND. REWARD IF RETURNED. CALL 2017 
I loet my light blue key chain wlslx keys. 
It has two £103 keys. and a £224 key. 
The key chain is the top hell of a number 
one (£1 ). Hyou heve found "· please call 
Danny at xt719. 
Rewardll Help me get my wallet, chain, and ring back! Incredible sentimental value. No questions asked. Please help. Call 1966 0< 1967 with Info. Reward II 
LOST: at Bridget's sometime near the end of Docember .. a BLACK MEN'S COAT. Keep the coat but PLEASE return theROOM KEYS In the pocket. 356 Alumni. 
LOST: BLUE LL BEAN NAPSACK AT SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE, I NEED MY GLASSES AND MY NOTES. IF FOUND, CALL 4659 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. 
LOST: G.E. WALKMAN WRADIO ON EARS, JANUARY 22 AT SAGA. PLEASE HELP CALL 284·5271 
LOST..STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKET (Before West Virginia Game) H found Please call Mark. £215t. Thank You. 
HELP! I LOST A PAIR OF TORTOISE· SHELL GLASSES IN A ROYAL BLUE CASE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LaFORTUNE AND PW ON 11.13. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL KIM AT 2645. 
FOUND SKI POLES ON SOPH SKI TRIP 3178 
LOSLGOLD BEAD NECKLACE.LOST ON DEC.15TH IN NO LIBRARY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL £3763. 
Lost: Purple key chain with two keya.PLEASE call 3829. ··································· 
LOST: men's ring, silver wHh a red atone(gamet).H found please retum to 1124 grace 0< call ma. Rlcky-·£3024 
LOST Hean-shaped Opal. It fell out of ns setting 11.17. PLEASE If you find It, call 277-6033. Sentimental value. REWARD$$$. 
Lost·blue NO bookbag from table by F line N Dimng Hall at dinner 1·27 Any info? PLEASE call 38961 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be· tween PW & O'Shag 9:00 ·10:00. Please be kind and contact me if you are the one who found it x·x2738 or bring it by 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
FOUND: Gold ring in Howard Saturday mght Jan. 24. Call Maraya 2698 to iden· lily. 
RIDES 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FALL SEMESTER 6838889 
3 BDRM HOUSE for '87-'88 school year NEAR CAMPUS·GREAT NBHD call PAT 288·5006 
OHEAP RENTIITWO BEDROOM APT· NO AVE.·BEAT ANY PRICE·CALL MAITx3468 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1·800·237·2061 
Summer job interviews-Average earn­Ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience In advertising. sales, and public relations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame campus telephone direc­tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. Complete training program In North Carolina. (Expenses peid) Looking for enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Sign up for Interviews with Unlvers"Y Directories at Career & Placement Ser­vices by Jan. 30. 
Students needed to help save lives. 
Watch T.V. and earn extra money. New donors or fonmer donors who haven't donated plasma In the last 30 days will be paid $11.00 following Initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west of Burger King on US 2()1 Uncolnway West. Phone 234·601 0. Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat. 
HIRING PART TIME HELP Pizza Hut wants drivers wnh own car and in­surance.Call277·2662 or stop by 138 11.1 Dixie Way No. In Roseland. 
Campus travel representatives needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1-600-433-7747 for details and information mailer. 
FOR SALE 
'81 FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 4·DR, V­B, LOADED. 232·9533 EVENINGS ONLY. BUY THIS CAR, I'LL TELL YOU HOW TO MAKE MONEY. 
................................................................ 
SkiiO<n XCL 181 waxless croaa·country skis, Skllom poles (140-156") and Adidas boot&bindings. All in excellent condition ·$125. Call Susan Reed, 239· 7515. 
TICKETS 
NHd Tickets O.aparataly to both the North Carolina and Duke baakatball gamea. EHher atudent or GA'a. Call Ertc at 2n-11123. 
HELP!! Mom and Dad are coming! 1 DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's Will pay BIG$$ Cat! Kerstln 4036 
NEED UNC TICKETS CALL NANCY 277·5626 

............................................... Need 2 Duke student tix; willing to trade 2 Keenan Revue tix or $$$ Call Ray or John 2990 
................................................................ 
I need 1 stud. tick. to the North Carolina game this Sunday! Big bucks guaranteedll Tom £1251 
NEED 1 NORTH CAROLINA STUDENT OR GA TICKET. CALL MIKE AT 2180 
I need 2 NC GA's·John 1722 
Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Marla at 2687. 
HELPII NEED TICKETS TO THE ND-MU GAME ... PLEASE CALL MARGIE 264· 5230 ­
I NEED 1 STU OR GA FOR N.C. X 3831. 
NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA STUD. TIX CALL JAY AT 1679 
NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA GA'S CALL MONICA 4041 WILL PAY BIG MONEY IIIII 
NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR NC GAMEICALL TOM-1774 
HELP. NEED 4 TIX FOR N.C. WILLING TO PAY WHATEVER. CALL 4095. 
I NEED ONE TICKET TO THE No-NORTH CAROLINA GAME SUN· DAY. PLEASE CALL MICHAEL AT 283· 1644 
Desperately seeking 2 N. Carolina GA'S. $$$$$ Call Terri Drew-284·4350. 
PLEASE, sell me 2 DUKE GAs. Family coming for game. Call x1 059 aaap. Thanks. 
I need 2 Duke or UNC GAs. Please call Will at 1662. Thanks. 
NEED 4 N CAROLINA GAS $ 264-5013 ELISA 
NEED 4 N CAROLINA GAS $ 264·5013 ELISA 

NEED TWO TICKETS FOR DUKE GAME CALL DIANE 284 4373 
Are all your friends going to the Revue tomorrow, and all you could get is a ticket for tonight? Well, I happen to have a Friday night ticket. If you want to switch, call 239-7666. and ask lor Bob. And please hurry. 
PERSONALS 

Part-time mk!g. pos. on campus. Polen· tial to make $&hr. Call Cindy at 1·800· 592-2121. 
.................................... 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SAVE $$$!1 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca· tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 10·530 ph. 233· 2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel 
THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED! 
ME~OISE CONCERT Sat., jan. 31 Bp.m. S5 at the door Stepan Center apona. by SAB 
Athletic, well groomed, morally secured male; Looking for sincere friendship, Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165 lbs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from you. All responses are welcomed and answ~red. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, 
81B0981, Box-149, Attica, NY 14011 
MAUREEN ERNY'S BIRTHDAY IS TQ­MORROWII GET PREPARED FOR THE BIG DAY MO 
Are you In a campus band? Would you like some FREE publicity? Contact Mary at either 239-5313 or 272-3833 before Friday. 
Need ride to Bowling Green on Sat, Call John-2035 
WANTED: ONE KNOWLEDGE HAM­MER. Willing to pay BIG BUCKS. Call Max at 1384. 
Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Maria at 2687. 
Helplll Need to swHch our Thursday Keenan Revue tix to Frldayl Please call Kathy, 2824 or Scoop, 3637 
INTERESTED IN DISMAS HOUSE? WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT IS????? Come join us for lunch at the Center for Social Concerns TODAYIIII JAN. 29 11 :3Q-1:30 COME JOIN US? 
Summer Service applications deadline is February 2. Students work in social ser· vice for 8 weeks In return for a $1200.00 tuition scholarship. For more information contact the Center for Social Concerns..239· 7867. 
Go to Hall, Car::.llna 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY POOKIEIII A little butterfly landed on my knee and told me that it was the PLS woman's birthday today II Hope this anniversary ot your most noble birth is a joyous and memorable festivity, and Homer keeps you pleasantly satisfied. Have a great day, Leiperll Love from all of your admiring fans. 
WINTER FEST '87 BROOMBALL TOUR· NEVIll sign up at SAB offices, 2nd floor LaFor· tune. 
BROOMBALLIII BROOM BALLI II BROOMBALLIII BROOMBALLIII BROOMBALLIII 
T-BEAR & MARY KAREN KOCH 
So I hear you girls are ~t It againi 
New York wilf never be the sameII 
Hi Bubbles...hope you've recovered by now... Get ready for tonight/ Love Always your roomie, Bunsielll 
To All Those Great SMC Girts I Know Hll 
Rob ••• CATHLEEN TOPPIN "' 
"" CATHLEEN TOPPIN ... 
••• KATHLEEN TOPPIN ••• Thanks for the great time-you were AWESOMEIII Now, can I have my un­derwear back? Your Favorite DOG 
"LEWIS 4TH FLOOR" FROSH ARE HOT" 
AVOID THE LAST MINUTE RUSH • STOP UP AT THE OBSERVER AND PUT IN YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIEDS ANYTIME . 
COULD IT BE ... AH ...... SATAN? CAP· TIAN KOSHER. 
ANDREA MANSOUR: We will miss you! Good Luck in Georgia -we hope you come back soon. Love Always ·Gina, Megan and Lisa 
Michele 
I Love You 
WTB 
TRACIE FEITERS: OK, so, I screwed up. I know your birthday was yesterday, but you get this today because I was late (so what else is new?) Anyway, I hope you had the happiest of birthdays and that you didn't do too much that was ob­jectionable. I'll buy April 14thlllll Coni... 
Does anyone really know what a Tarheel is? 
Does Scott Dupree even know? 
SOPHOMORE CLASS RETREAT SAT. FEB. 7th -ONE DAY ·9AM-9PM • SIGN-UP BY FRIDAY, JAN. 30th IN SOPH. CLASS OFFICE. 
SOPHOMORE CLASS MASS WITH 
MONK MALLOY SUNDAY, FEB. 1 7:00PM ZAHM CHAPEL 
F5 STEAMBOAT COLORADO SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP INFORMATIONAL MEETING: MONDAY. FEB 2 AT 7:30 IN LAFORTUNE LIITLE THEATER ••• DEADLINE FOR SIGNUPS FEB 8 
THANK YOU ST. MARY AND ST. JUDE FOR REQUESTS GRANTED 
"The Jimmy Johnson's on Ice" Yes· the 
only "wuss" team that is good enough 
to skate varsity. Featuring "The Ugandan 
Headhunter" Rob Kearny (on skates 
event) Takes the ice at the Athletic and 
Convocetion Center Friday nile at 1 :00 
am. Come to see true hockey action at 
its best and catch a puck. 
Ad paid for by the 
"we love 
Rob Keamy" foundation 
ITS A SCREAMIN' OITER'S TWENTY· FIRSTIII HAPPY DAY OF BIRTH TO SEAN PIERIIII Who else could be a HOOSIER with a BROOKLYN AC· CENT??? With love...The Farley Gold Carders 
GOING TO BOILERMAKER COUNTRY??? Looking for a ride to Purdue any weekend! Please call Kath· teen at 4036... 
Wargamming opponents wanted for CIVILIZATION and DIPLOMACY. Call Chas, x1766 
... but only one Is a PHYSICS GODDESS 
Monica·san, you little wahinel Hope you have a terrific birthday-san! Lots of love. the ·-sans" 
BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS at Irish Gardens In LaFortune send an arrangement to your friends BALLOONS BALLOONS BALLOONS 
THE LOVE BOAT. exciting and new. where Murphy one and Murphy two stay In bed 'till aHer two, and Fiji King of Campus View, I'd never Interrupt if I knew. Tequilas and teddys just don't m1x, and sometimes chauffers just don't get kicks.Oh lonely girl up above, make sure he Phlls you with his love. And Christmas morn who studs do meet, stay out of the kitchen If you don't like heal. Bonjour stud, you're just so nice. do you know chocolate chips go well on ice? PJ let a girl slip by and Monsieur winked and caught her eye. Our Big Chill days we thought were through, but hey, It's my blrthday,tool Thanks for the prince seeds,! hope they grow, believe me. guys, I'll let you know. Love, Julie, your cruise director. 
Mosie Creedon 
Moate Creedon 
Moole Creedon 
Ia 17 and never been kloaedl 
Happy B-Day Moea, 
Love, 
Mar and Pat 
Desperately need ride to Columbus on Valentine's Day weekend! Call Ros x3352 
"'"RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO PURDUE-W.LAFAYETTE WKND OF 02-06-06 CALL KIM 264-5535 I'M DESPARATEIII'"' 
HAIRCUTS 
$4$4 
call amy 264·5032 
NEEDEDIII ONE KEENAN REVUE TICKETIII FRI OR SAT CALL 264·5500 
.....KEENAN REVUE'''.. 0' Laughllng 
7:30 tonightllll 
COULD IT BE ...AH ...... SATAN? CAP· TIAN KOSHER. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be· tween PW & O'Shag 9:00 ·tO:OO. Please be kind and contact me If you are the one who found It x·o2738 or bring It by 344 PW. Reward is offered. 
NEED 4 N CAROLINA GAS $ 264·5013 ELISA 
.....KEENAN REVUE"..' 0' Laughling 
7:30 tonightllll 
Are all your friends going to the Revue tomorrow, and all you could get Is a ticket for tonight? Well, I happen to have a Friday night ticket. If you want to swHch, call 239·7666, and ask tor Bob. And please hurry. 
DANCEIDANCEIDANCEI Council lor the Retarded will sponser a dance et Logan Canter on Fri. Jan. 30 from 7:30 to 10:00 p.m. 
HEY HOMER or HOMESLICE 0< HORNDOGS or RENNIE. 
Happy 20th/ 
Hope tonight is more fun than last night. 
............................ 
SMEO.DOG LABOE I UZ·DOG MAR· TUCCI 
Exactly who Is on top?? 
·The Curious 


--------------~--------~-~~---------------~-----------.._....____ 
The Observer 
Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 11 

College halftime shows require much more than a Knight 
This time down the court, we're going to try and explain  styles and play-me-or-I'll­transfer athletes?  '­ 
something that not too many  The answer, I decide, is yes.  
people  understand  -the  3­ Because  Bobby Knight,  who  
minute, 45-second TV halftime  never  played  a  zone,  always  
show -because even when you  wore  nothing  but  a  sports- 
McGuire  
Hoopla  
give it the best you  can  and  jacket,  and  never  recruited  
work really hard, not a lot of  outside the  above  mentioned  
folks realize just what's all in­ four states  -he is adjusting in  
volved.  his own, unique, non-negotiable  
What  most  of  my  cameo  way.  
glimpses into the behind-the­ By the time I'd thought this  
scenes world of college hoops  all out, I'd climbed into a seven  
require are two days of work ­ o'clock commuter out of Mil­ 
including  travel  time,  from  waukee  for  Indianapolis  -a  
concourse to concourse. But be­ plane that  was  made for the  
cause of space limitations, I've  Hunchback of Notre Dame, be­ 
selected one of the few that was  cause once you get on one, you  
done in a day -when I recently  can't straighten up.  And the  
took my annual pilgrimage to  guy who took my ticket at the  
Bloomington to spend  a four­ counter was the same guy who  
hour  time  block  during  a  loaded  my  baggage  on  the  
halftime show on Coach Bobby  plane, and then ended up tug­ 
Knight.  ging  on  his  Eddie  Ricken­ 
OK. The alarm clock jumped  backer leather hat with goggles  
me off the living-room floor at  as the pilot. I landed at 10:24  
6:15 a.m., and in my stupor I  a.m.  and  was  picked  up  by  
realize that I haven't done an  Murray Bartow, a graduate as­ 
Indiana game in two years, but  sistant at Indiana and  son of  
also that nothing really changes. This, I decide, is what I want  Gene Bartow, the head coach at UAB, for a 55-mile trip to visit the residence of the round  
to hit upon in my show ­that in Coach Knight's case, change only means that the racetrack sports jacket has become a ro­tating Adidas pullover red or white sweater. And, that he's left the four powerful Midwest states from which he's always recruited -Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Michigan -and opened up the whole country, including JUCO blue-chippers. And yes, that he is now playing a zone -which is even obvious to Billy P. and Dick V. What Coach Knight has shown, I think, is that great­ness in any performance is ad­justing to change, while main­taining an image of non-negotiability. He's given us the answer to that age-old saloon argument: Would a Vince Lombardi, Red Auer­bach, John Wooden or Woody Hayes, be successful in today's sports environment of over­exposure, agents, wild media  ball guru. Upon arnvmg in Bloomington, I knelt and kissed his ring ­and caught the end of practice, which ended at noon because it was the Christmas holiday. Believe me, it was a real physical workout, no non­sense, with Coach Knight al­ways keeping the court spread and working screens in their motion offense. On D, they worked on cutting off the pass­ing lanes, and on a concen­trated, maximum effort on man-to-man. We then went for a paper­napkin lunch, at a place the health department hasn't found yet, accompanied by his son Tim, who graduated from Stanford and represents Coach Knight in all businesses outside of the university. Like I said, the last time the floor was swept in that place must have been when Victor Mautre starred in "One Million  The Observer /File Photo Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight took McGuire relates the details of the interview in time out to speak with NBC announcer AI his column at left. McGuire for a halftime special recently, and B.C.," but the food was good, certain doubts and reserva­think this is one Cage Brief and the conversation -believe tions about the way the NCAA you'll want to miss. it or not ­was mainly on fishing and the presidents of the uni­Then, it was back to the air­and hunting. versities are handling things. port, with Tim chauffeuring, After that, we went back and Also, he doesn't care who refs for my return flight to where did a 35-40 minute, in-depth the games, and doesn't know beer is Made the American conversation on basketball and who the refs are until he gets Way. I got back to my home at what this giant would do if bas­on the court -which is rare -11 o'clock that night -having ketball ended tomorrow -and and feels the three-second lane put in about 17 hours for a 3­how he'd want to be remem­should be widened. minute, 45-second show. A bered. This show will be shown Coach Knight also said he felt piece of cake, huh? February 21 when Iowa visits that his next career would not There are a couple of last Indiana, and I think you'll find have to be competitive, and in points I'd like to make. his answers interesting ... and, addition, touched a little on the One is that, if Coach Knight in some cases, surprising. sweaters, the zones, the shoe has a human fault, it's that if · There are a few things I will contracts, athletes receiving he likes you, he'll do anything say: When we talked that half­some money and the shooting for you. What he did for me was hour plus before the two-angle ability of Steve Alford -one of a hell of a favor at a busy time, cameras, Coach Knight said the greatest lights-out shooters and you'd better believe this the three-point play is suicidal in the business. former sideline-pacer ap­to the game. And, that he has Believe me guys, I don't preciates it.  
The  Book  Department's  There is no doubt, when this man walks onto a basketball court, everyone's eyes are on him. The visiting coach, the  

refs, the media, the fans -they seem to know by ESP that the man is coming out.

Pre-Inventory Sale 
I doubt that he's ever played to a less than SRO house in the Big Ten in the last 10 years, and his intensity and cold stare guarantee the Nielson Rating for any Indiana game. ·

20o/o discount on all 20o/o discount on all 
Coach Knight is one of those rare people who takes the air out of the room, who makes the 

Trade Hardbounds Children's Books 
heart pound, makes it tough to breathe. Everybody knows he's there, even the opposing team, who pretends like it doesn't, but it knows: Here

additional 20o/o discount 
comes the man. He is, today, the only one who has that kind of awareness to everybody in

on all Sale Books 
the place. Even the ushers. 
What I'm trying to show is that Bobby Knight as reflected by the reactions of his

Ends February 14 peers-is so aware. And it's not 
just coincidence that aware­

ness and greatness take up the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
same number of letters on the written page. 





11111"""-------------­
-~----------~----~ ~ --~ -~~-------~­
The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987-page 12 
Farley, PE are favored as IH hoop wears on 


By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
It looks like Farley A and Pasquerilla East are the teams to beat in women's interhall basketball this year, but for­feits and schedule changes make it difficult to pick a clear winner. 
Farley Ais 4-0, having beaten Lyons and Breen-Phillips 'A' in early games, and also scoring victories by forfeit over Farley B and Breen-Phillips B. 
Pasquerilla East is also un­defeated at 4-0, earning its spot­less record by beating a tough Lewis A team early in the season and topping Lyons, 45­32, last Sunday. It also has two forfeit wins. Both teams hope to remain strong throughout the nine-game season, with a showdown between the two scheduled for Feb. 23. 
The 10-team women's field is heading into the second half of the round-robin schedule. The top four teams will play in an 
elimination  tournament  in  
early March.  
Last  year's champion,  the  

Lewis A team, is off to a 2-2 start this year, including Sun­day's loss to the Breen-Phillips A team. Lewis was down by 12 at the half, but managed to fight back in the fourth quarter and take a one-point lead, but B-P held on to win by three. 
"We got off to a slow start," said Teresa Buliavac, the Lewis captain. "We are making adjustments and working with some new people. We ought to do well in the rest of our games." 
Breen-Phillips A is led by Vicki Buth and Ann Curoe. 
"We are a good team, but we haven't played a whole game well," said captain Carol Cavaliere, whose team starts three freshmen. Farley Ais the only team to have beaten Cavaliere's young squad. 
Also on Sunday, Lewis B scored its first win, beating Breen-Phillips B, 30-17, behind the sharp shooting of Heather Koch (16 points) and the ag­gressive play of Lynn Arnold. 
"We're really a young team," said Lewis B captain 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHIR 
Sheila Horox, who also starts three freshmen. "The team is looking better every time we play. We just need time to learn to work as a team." 
A summary of Sunday's ac­tion shows Pasquerilla East beating Lyons, 45-32, Lewis B over B-P B, 30-17, Lewis A lost to B-P A by three, and Farley B forfeited to Farley A. The game between Badin and Walsh was rescheduled for Feb. 5. 
The next round of games will be Sunday, with Walsh {1-1) playing P.E. (4-0), Farley A (4­
0) taking on Lewis B (1-2), Far­ley B (0-4) against Lyons (2-2), 
U.S. 12-meter yacht Stars & Stripes (left) willLewis A (2-2) meeting B-P B attempt to regain the America's Cup for the(1-2) and Badin (0-3) playing United States against defending-champion

B-P A (3-0. 
:state Line PartyStore: 
: Special: $38 Budweiser Keg+ 
. :
. .
~ ~ 
• 4ee ~-+
• v ~~. •+ located offofU.S. 31/33 west •+ 

University of Notre Dame Foreign Study Programs 
Summer1987 

Courses in Chinese Language & Culture, including opportunities for individual and group visits to nearby sites of cultural, industrial, and agricultural interest --6 Notre Dame credits. w w k Visits to important places in the People's Republic of China, conducted by the faculty of Tianjin Foreign Languages Institute. 
$3,000. (tuition, room, board, tour, a!ld inter­national airfare.) 
IMPORTANT MEETING TONIGHT 6:30PM. 242 0 'Shaughnessy Hall (Satellite Room) 
II 
AP Photo 
Australia. Marty Burns takes a look at this "big" event in his column, beginning on the back page. 
JPW Mass Lector Auditions 
3 readers are needed Monday, Feb. 2, 4-5 pm at Sacred Heart Church. 
Pick up a copy ofreadings at Student Activities Office in LaFortune. 


Aeetaurant And Cocktail Lounge Allthentk: Szectn.., and Hunan Tute 
Happy Chinese New Year (Jan. 29) All you can eat buffet $7.95 Includes: soup, appetizers 8 entrees and dessert Jan. 25 <Sun.) thru Jan. 29 (Thurs.) 5:00p.m. -9:00p.m. 

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
"'"'"~---'<0>~~~-.Q><Q> 
When the temperature falls, so do Corktowneprices! 
$25.99 Busch Half Barrel Keg $32.99 Bud/Bud Light half Barrel Keg 
6 Pack of Molson Extra $3.89 Case of Molson Golden $12.99 Case of Goebels $5.49 Case of Busch $6.99 
CORKTOWNE 
LJOUORS,INC. 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '• m11e west of Martm ·s Supermarlf.et 



The Observer Thursday, January 29, 1987 -page 13 

"~owef(g ~~ aQQ occagiong_~~ 
Comein and Browse 327 Lincolnway l3l~3354 
The Observer Is always IQQklng fQr talent. If yQu have any, cQme tQ Qur Qfflces and start wQrklng Qn yQur newspaper. 

The Observer is now recruiting tor the following positions: 
Business Page Editor Business Page Writers 
Interested applicants should contact Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune or by phone at 239-7 471. 

Special Notice: 
All paid membership cards may be picked up at the Club. 
New 1986-1987 memberships will be accepted in the Student Activities Office until Feb. 1st 1987. 
Swim teams face tough weekend 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams take to the road. The Irish travel to Cleveland State for a night meet and then jour­ney to St. Bonaventure for a meet on Saturday. These two dual meets should prove to be challenges for Notre Dame. 
Last year, the Irish men's team lost both meets, and the opposition set most of the pool records at Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter. The women fared much better last year, and are seeking to control the series. 
Coach Tim Welsh is, to say the least, excited about both meets. 
"This will be chance to show how well our program is working," said Welsh. "This is our chance to attain one of our season goals -beating teams that beat us last year. To return the favor would be incredibly exciting.'' 
While Cleveland State will have a slight advantage, the meet for the men should be a neck-and-neck race from start to finish. For the women, the advantage will go to Notre Dame. With 12 monogram­winners returning from last year, the women will have more control over their meet. 
"To win the meet, the men will need time drops in the freestyle events and significant drops in the 200-yard fly, 200­yard breaststroke and 200-yard IM," said Welsh. "Those three events are critical. We will pick up or lose needed points." 
Mter racing against the Vikings, the Irish travel to St. Bonaventure for another at­tempt at revenge. This time, however, the roles will be slightly reversed. The women will be faced with the same sit­uation the men are in against Cleveland State. 
"The women's meet will be like the men's at Cleveland," said Welsh. "The match-ups will be good, but we can win it. 
the gap to 15-14.

Flyers 
Botham then came alive with a steal, two short jumpers and 

continuedfrom page 16 
a three-point play to shock comeback with a few smooth Dayton and put the Irish ahead, moves past the Flyer defense, 21-17. The Flyers continued to hitting a left-handed runner force Notre Dame turnovers and an 18-foot jumper to close and play a patient half-court of-
COUNSELINE Volunteers Wanted!!! 
************* 

We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if... 
-You want to help prov~de a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
-You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work in a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 

...then ask for David at the University Counseling Center or just leave a message. 239-7336. 
******************************** 
The women will have to con­centrate more having had the last meet on Friday and the first on Saturday." 
The men's team will be facing one of the strongest Catholic teams in the nation. Another point for St. Bonaven­ture is its strength in Notre Dame's main events. 
"As with us, St. Bonaven­ture's strength lies in the frees­tyle sprints," said Welsh. "We're looking to come closer to them than we did last year. Winning will require a couple miracle swims." 
Coach Welsh believes this weekend is the king of back-to­hack meets for the Irish. 
"I think we'll have an excel­lent weekend," said Welsh. "We have a chance to narrow the gap against St. Bonaven­ture and set the record straight with Cleveland." 
Next week the Irish will return home for their final home meet. The women will face Ball State while the men will challange Kalamazoo. 
fense to close the gap as the first half ended with the score tied, 27-27. 
The Irish opened the second half with a tough packed-in defense of their own, and Gavin's coast-to-coast lay-up a la Magic Johnson gave the Irish a 39-34 lead with 13:34 remain­ing. 
"Mary Gavin did a great job for us," said DiStanislao. "She does what we need her to do. She gets better and better every game. A 4-11 team is hardly a showcase for a great point guard, but she is." 
Dayton's first-year head coach Sue Ramsey called a timeout to regroup her squad and the Flyers came out of the huddle strong. A seven-point Irish lead quickly dwindled and became a one-point deficit as Dayton's Michelle Kruty (11 points) hit a solo foul shot with 
8:30 on the clock. Trailing 45-44, the Irish staged a comeback of their own. 
But Toney committed a back­court foul with just 20 seconds remaining and Frericks, a .514 shooter from the charity stripe, hit the two decisive free throws for a Dayton victory. The Irish had one last chance with five ticks on the clock and the ball out-of-bounds under their own hoop. The in-bounds pass went to Toney in the corner who, fin­ding no one else open, threw up the potential game-winner which fell short. 


* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* Harvester
* 
*
* 
Located in the basement* ofLaFortune
* ·unique yogurt items 
** · trail mixes· · dried fruits and nuts·
* 
·assortment ofgifts and
* 
handmade items·
* of?~& ~bWMJm~Q
* 
* 
Senior Month 
is coming! 
Any Senior interested in planning Senior Month (as a Committee Member 

'-lOURS: Mon . .-:,;. : 11-8 pm or a Chairperson), Please Call: Sat.-sun.: 12-5 pm 
-Fred 272-6054 John 283-1666 Jenny 284-5148 Leah 283-3917 Karen 284-5227 

l ­
Elway not happy with 2nd; Pro Bowl is no consolation 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -John Elway has had a chance to reflect on that empty feeling that goes with being a Super Bowl loser. 
"It's like we were never even there," the Denver Broncos quarterback said. 
And "It's like the Giants are the only football team there is." 
Still, Elway also learned that even after the 39-20 loss to New York in Pasadena, Calif., last Sunday, the world went on spin­ning. 
"I was happy to see that the sun still came up Monday mor­ning," Elway said with a smile. 
"I rehashed the game after­ward, thought of the things I could've done differently, but you do that with every game. 
"It was such a buildup for a game," said Elway, one of five Denver players in Hawaii for Sunday's Pro Bowl. 
"We would like to have won, of course, but you never know what to expect. 
"It was disappointing for us and for our fans back in Den­ver, but we still had a great season, and we'll have the chance to make it back to the Super Bowl again." 
"If we improve in some areas, we can play with anybody," he said. 
Elway, blossoming in his fourth pro season, actually played very well in the Super Bowl. 
He wound up with 22 comple­tions in 37 attempts for 304 yards, with one interception. He threw for one touchdown and ran for another. 
But although he passed the Broncos down the field on four of their first five possessions, they came away with just 10 points. 
Elway said he'd like to finish the season on a winning note, with an AFC victory over the NFC in Sunday's all-star game. 
But then he frowned and added, "It's not much of a con­solation." 
t.
•.·· J 
APPhoto 
Devner Broncos quarterback says he finds no Pro Bowl in Hawaii, and a related story appears c~nsolation in his team's second-place finish jn at left. the NFL this season. Elway will appear in tlie 


THERE'S 
ONlYOil 
LITE BIER
"TOKEEP 
,. 
··::·.::~~ 
,.,,,~¥
THE GIRLISH .. 
. 
. 
.
FIGURE" i 


'JI['~~ttll~------------------------------------------------------•T•h•u•rs•d•ay•,•J•a•nu•a•r•y•29•,•1•98•7•-•p•ag•e•1•5.. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Beer Nuts 
/he. Uh. 
of 
an 
Campus 
5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Ap­pleworks Wordprocessing, 108 Computing Center, limit 6. To register, Call Betty 239­5604 
7:00 p.m.: Thursday Night Film Series "Berlin, Symphony of a City," 1927, Black and White, 53 minutes and "Man With the Movie Camera," 1928, Black and White, 67 minutes, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00, 9:00 and 11:00: Movie, "Tommy", $1.00, Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 
p.m.: Keenan Review, O'Laughlin Auditorium, no charge but tickets are re­quired. For tickets, call SMC box office 284-4626 

7:30 
p.m.: Basketball, NDM vs. Mar­quette, ACC 




5//?,.. 
X~. /16Y,

I WONfleR If~ MI&Hr 
WHY 1H! C/165T

CON/lf!CT 11f!S TKAN5/ICT/ON W!TJIOIIT flt.&IWN& HAlf 
8t1Nih4/P, 

me CIV/UZ€1/ W(}f(l.f? 
{l(IP6.? fN ~ f'I?OCe5{j' 
\ 
/ 
Mark Williams 

YO() NfEP .4 CHAN6[. AFrfR 
WE RECOI111fNP

ALL, NOT tvERYONE IIA> TilE 
EN61NEERIN6.

5l7JFF TO 1!£ AN ART MAJOR. }t}(J SHOll.!) 8[ [NTITtEP TO HAVE f(J/{ IN COI..l£6F ~ 
I

I?IGHr? 
I 
Snake inventors 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Void's partner 5 Rental sign

Dinner Menus 
10 Tableland 14 Pavarotti selection

Notre Dame 
15 Dwelling place 16 Genesis name 
17 Survival dilemma

Salisbury Steak 
Turkey Pot Pie 
19 Painter Guido 

Tofu & Vegetables Chinese Style 
20 Distorted 

Western Sandwich 
21 Check 22 Made public 23 Actress

Saint Mary's 
Moreno 25 Certain train 

Turkey Broccoli Divan 
27 Butter serving 
30-energy 32 Sprite 

Grecian Pocket Pita 
Grilled Pork Chops 
35 Conflict

Deli Bar 
37 Annul 
39 Mars 40 Big bird 
42 Raison d'­43 Climbing 
vines 46 See 69A 49 Deranged 50 Male hawk: var. 52 Permit 53 "I -girl ... " 55 Cassini 57 Tex. shrine 59 Zodiac sign 61 Damp 65 Ship's officer 66 How Mark Spitz 
performed? 68 Solar disc 69 Ursa­70 Verve 71 Drove 72 Spy 73 Hayseed 
DOWN 1 Space acronym 2 "Exodus" 
author 3 Connection 4 Los Angeles 
hoopster 5 Paving stuff 6 Hindrance 7 Indian quail 8 Fit for food 

The Observer is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 
Interested Sophomore or Junior Accounting Majors should submit a personal statement to Alex VonderHaar by 5 p.m. on Friday, January 30. 
_ Ihe-ObserYer__= 
SAB Presents 
TOMMY 
Tonight at 7, 9, 11 pm 
$1.00 
Engineering Auditorium 
3RD Floor Lafortune Student Center 239-5303 
The Gods Must Be Crazy 
Fri. &Sat. 
7, 9:15, 11:30
$1.50 
Winter Festival Broomball Tourney Sign-ups 
Now through Feb. 4, 9am-4:30pm SAB office 
$3/team 

"'1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
All Rig_hts Reserved 
9 Pro­10 "West Side Story" heroine 
11 Famed English Channel crossers 
12 Rational 13 Surrounded by 18 Due 22 lsr. port 24 Barge hauler 26 Scull 27 Sacred song 28 Roman courts 29 Way to stay 
afloat 31 Nocturnal 
mammal 33 At -(free) 34 Armada 36 Mil. letters 38-capita 41 Rare 44 -time (never) 45 Rest 47 Andrea­
Sarto 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
p. s H 'IE A c "I'D L E
A L L E N S L A Y N 0 0 K 
S T I L T J~ L E 0 F W 0 E 
T A M P IIC 0 I N T E N T S -E C 0 N CATS­
S C A R.'ii'T~Q~o T H ER 
HOB •• MEADE 
ALICE 'fio~ ADIGE C 0 D E S A K I N. T A D K N E L T J..iJ..JJ~~MII R Y 
-LION N EMO­
A N I M A T E ,Jli I P P E0 
MORA-TALE  APURE  
P L 0 T  E D I  E  M E L 0 N  
S A N E  R S V P  I D E S T  

1/29/87 
48 Oleoresin 62 Eskimo house: 51 Nocturnal var. 
insect 63 Thick slice 54 Revise 64 Newcastle's 56 Hopeless case river 57 Oriental nurse 66 Wee to a 58 Not on time Scotsman 60 Eldest: Fr. 67 "A-Team" name 

SAB Presents MEC1Noise Concert 
Do you have a pierced ear[ right of left]? 
Answer yes to any ofthese Hang out in IaFortune too much? 
questions and we've gotGot a new wave do? 
musicfor you! Who: 
Marginal Man(Washington D.C.) 
Precious wax Drippings(Chicago 
N.D.'s own Youth in Asia 
Damaged Retina 

~ --------c-o~~--~-~­

-
Thursday, January 29, 1987 -page 16

S~orts 
The Observer /File Photo 

Irish fall to Dayton; Buzzer shot falls short 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The stage was set for the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team to finally pick up that elusive clutch win, the kind that you pull out in the final minutes. 
Too many times this season the Irish have been on the losing side of these games. Last night it happened again, as Dayton came back from a seven-point deficit and defeated the Notre Dame, 55­54. 
The two teams traded the lead several times throughout the evening until the Irish made a run midway through the second half to go ahead, 43­
36. Dayton called a timeout to regroup and came back on fire, tying the game, 44-44. The teams battled on the boards un­til Notre Dame surged ahead, 54-51, with 2:20 remaining when sophomore Diondra 
Series with independents resumes as Warriors try to break ND jinx 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The third installment of the six-part mini-series "Notre Dame vs. the Independents" takes place tonight at 7:30 as 11-6 Marquette visits the ACC. 
The Warriors are coming off a 91-89 overtime loss to Miami (Fla.). First-year head coach Bob Dukiet tried to use a two­three zone defense in that game to contain the Hurricanes' big­man, Tito Horford. 
"Marquette will mix their defenses," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "They'll press at half court, they'll play a tight man-to-man and they'll play a zone. Marquette played a straight two-three zone to pack it in so (Horford) couldn't Toney hit two free throws. 
Two minutes later, with only 20 seconds on the clock, Dayton freshman Cindy Frericks went to the foul line and cooly sank two shots, giving the Lady Flyers the victory and drop­ping the Irish record to 4-12. 
"We had the lead and the ball with two minutes left," said a Irish head coach Mary DiS­tanislao. "We traveled twice and fouled and that was it. That was the story at the end." 
The story at the beginning was a tough Dayton defense, forcing the Irish to turn the ball over 11 times in the first half. The Flyers' full-court defense and quick two-three zone kept the Irish guards from getting the ball inside to leading scorers Heidi Bunek and Sandy Botham, giving Dayton a 13-8 lead eight minutes into the con­test. Notre Dame floor-leader Mary Gavin sparked an Irish 
see FLYERS, page 13 
get the ball. And that's one of the things we can expect from Marquette if Royal turns on." 
Defense is also one of the strengths for the Irish, who are ranked seventh in NCAA team­defense with a 59.1 points­allowed average. 
On offense, Marquette fea­tures a strong frontcourt. For­ward David Boone leads the team with 17 points and 8.7 rebounds per game, and junior college transfer Mike Flory adds 12.8 points and 4.9 rebounds a game. 
Starting at center for Mar­quette is Tom Copa who, be­sides contributing 4.6 rebounds a game, is also known for his strong desire to beat Notre Dame. His frustrations must be mounting, as the Irish have 
..:­
.· 
-.y.he Observer/Greg Kohs 
Notre Uame point guard Mary Gavin (10) gets a piece of Pam Rasey's (13) pass in Dayton's 55-54 victory last night at the ACC. Brian O'Gara has the details at left. 
won the last six games these schools have played. 
The backcourt features junior guard Michael c:;ims, who is averaging 15.9 points a game. The other guard spot is a question mark for Marquette, as Dukiet currently has fresh­man Tony Smith starting and Pat Foley and Kevin Johnson coming off the bench. 
"(Dukiet) can go seven or eight people deep and do things," said Phelps. "You just can't take them lightly." 
There is some concern in the Irish camp concerning the con­dition of David Rivers. Phelps said Rivers has been "playing tired" and as a result might change his strategy on using 
-see RIVERS, page 10 


David Rivers (4) and the Irish look to continue two teams meet tonight at the ACC. Pete Gegen their recent dominance over Marquette as the previews the match-up in his story above. 
~--~------------------------------------1 

. 
Stars and 
who owned 







