~­
Women at ND -page 8 

VOL. XXI, NO. 78 TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1987 . the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
~-­
Senate discusses rights ofgaygroup, displaced students 
By ANN MARIE DURNING time," Acosta noted. Staff Reporter Don Montanaro, student body vice president said, "I 
The plight of Gays and Les­wonder if you can get around bians at NDSMC was debated (the conflict of no names of wo­by the Student Senate Monday men from SMC) by changing night as the group's chairman your name." petitioned the Senate to help it In response to various sug­
..... ,.~ realize the aim of ''advertising gestions from Senate mem­in The Observer and on WSND bers, Brian Holst said, ''I'm not
~~~~,?!~~/~· ---llllllilllli 
~ and being able to meet on suggesting that we advertise 
> • "" 
campus." the group; I'm saying that we 
Joe Acosta, chairman of try to help the problem." GLNDSMC, was invited to the Holst asked, "What about meeting by Student Senator setting up a room under student John Gardiner. government that the group 
Acosta said requests for ad­could use?" vertisements in The Observer Student Senator Mike Jaeger were rejected because "First, said the matter would come un­the conflict of numbers--in an der the jurisdiction of Mon­interview with Mark tanaro and the cabinet. Pankowski I told him there Acosta discussed a April 16; were 50 members. Second, 1986 proposal he sent to the ad­there were no Saint Mary's ministration asking for "the girls on the list, and third, pre­esc for meetings, a mailbox on vious ad problems." campus, announcements in 
Acosta said he sent a mem­university-owned media, par­bership list of nine names in ticipation in Student Activities September to Joe Murphy, Night, or at least a number and editor-in-chief of The Obser­address in the phone book." ver. He said The Observer's ad­vertising policy requires ''a full 
Acosta said his proposal was 
list of officers and members in 

·­
rejected by the administration. a club (be submitted) if re­"Father Tyson stated (the ad­ministration) felt the needs of
quested."

-
gay and lesbian students on 
Expressing the desire of 

campus could best be met by most GLNMMC members to the counseling center and 
remain anonymous, Acosta Campus Ministry," Acosta said the policy interfered with 
said.
Off the wall The Observer/ Damian Chin the group's efforts to publicizeThe Keenan Revue gets a face-lift in its nth tional performances slated for Friday, the 30th, their meetings. "The Observer 
see SENATE, page 3
edition, which will open in O'Laughlin and Saturday, the 31st. can release this list at anyAuditorium on Thursday, Jan. 29 with addi-
Grad survey
Lee's Ribs raided for second time in 2 weeks 
By TRIPP BALTZ to Lt. Richard Kilgore, public of The Goose's Egg more than jacket. Officers issuing cita­

results show 
News Editor relations officer for South Bend seven years ago. The tavern tions referred to a Notre 
•

Police. was located at the corner of DameSaint Mary's telephone 

engineers
A raid of Lee's Ribs con-Kilgore said that police Notre Dame Ave. and Howard directory to check for names ducted by three law-records show only 20 to 30 pa­St., according to Capt. Patrick on the identification cards stu­enforcement agencies trons in the bar were of legal Cottrell, who led Thursday's dents presented. 

paid highest 
Thursday night netted over 200 age. raid on Lee's. Arrested on charges of resist­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's The citations for being a State excise police Sgt. Greg ing law enforcement was Gale 
By MARTIN RODGERS students. minor in a tavern were the Deitchly also led the raid. Kil­Lighthall, 31, of E. Howard St. 
News Staff South Bend Police, Indiana highest number ever delivered gore said excise officers en­Arrested on charges of van­State Police and Indiana State to students in one raid in South tered Lee's undercover before dalism and minor in a tavern 
The College of Engineer­Excise Police made 13 arrests Bend history. the raid. One police officer 
ing provides its graduates
see LEE'S, page 3

in the 11 p.m. raid, according The previous record bust was wore a Notre Dame football with the highest starting salary and the highest em­ployment success rate, said a survey of 1986 Notre Dame 

Notre Dame to resurrect Jerusalem program 
graduates conducted by the Office of the Dean of Admin­
will be based at Notre Dame's and law, and Holy Land geog­Charles.
By SEAN S. HICKEY 
istration.
Tantur campus in Jerusalem raphy and archeology, accor­The former program had its 
News Staff 
The 1986 Survey of Future
which also houses the Univer­ding to Charles. beginning in 1972, when "Fat­
Plans of Notre Dame
The University of Notre sity's Ecumenical Institute for Although Notre Dame her Hesburgh, in cooperation Dame, Fordham, Georgetown, Theological Studies, said already has a program at the with the Pope, offered to devote 
Graduates took place from mid-March through the first 
and Villanova are sponsoring a Charles. Tantur campus for the aca­an institute for ecumenical 
week of April of last year,
new program for students of "Faculty professors from demic year, the curriculum of studies," Charles said. This according to Charles McCol­these universities to study in (the four universities) and the new summer program dif­prospective institute became lester, the Coordinator ofJerusalem. people locally will provide the fers significantly, according to the Tantur campus, on the road Analytical Studies. Two"A first ever in foreign instruction," Charles said. Charles. "Biblical studies are betweem Jerusalem and Beth­thousand and ninety-ninestudy," said Dr. Isabel Students will register for 12 studied during the (extant) lehem, she said. 
degree recipients responded Charles, Director of Foreign credit hours from a curriculum year-long program, while an Despite the concern over ter­to the survey, which has
Studies and Associate Provost. including courses on Arabic, Arab-Islamic program is of­rorism in the Middle East, The ten-week session will run Middle Eastern history and fered in the new 10-week 
see GRAD, page 3 from June 6 to August 15 and politics, Islamic philosophy summer program," said 
see PROGRAM, page 5 

The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987 -page 2 
I r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
I 
r 
I 
f r 
r 
I t 
I 
•


In Brief .. 
A nun was fatally stabbed in the neck and found dead early Monday, police said. Police spokesman Sgt. Diane Kubler said the body of Sister Virginia Thomann 65, was found in street clothes propped up at her desk i~ My Brother's Place, a halfway house in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx. -Associated Press 
~~arged .with att~mpted _murder for allegedly sp1ttmg at pohce, a man mfected w1th AIDS virus received two years probation Monday on a reduced charge. John Ric.ha.rds, 28, of Davi~on, had pleaded guilty Aug. 4 to res1stmg and ob.st;uctmg a police officer after a judge threw out the or1gmal charge because many experts dis­puted the contention that AIDS could be spread by spitting. 
-Associated Press 

Ac~ress Jane F~nda said she wept after seeing the V1etnam War mov1e !'Platoon," but adventure film star Chuck Norris calls it "a slap in the face" to honored veterans. Norris said the movie failed to reflect the camaraderie described in letters from his younger brother Wieland, who died in Vietnam. "If I was a Vietnam vet who put my life on the line over there, and went to see 'Platoon,' -with those scenes of G .I.'s tormenting villagers and raping young girls -I'd be furious. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 

. A required rotation of classes treating the 1ssues of alcohol, drugs, and eating disorders will be given by .No~re _Dame's Department Of Physical Education begmmng m the fall of 1987. The new classes will be under th~ direction of the Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. Th1~ semester the University made available two classes on 1ssues related to substance abuse, one in the anthro­pology department and one in the psychology department. 
-The Observer 

''The Catholic Experience: Single, Female, And 21," will be discussed by four Saint Mary's student rep­resentatives Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall in an informal presentation, second in a series of six lectures offered by the College's Center For Spirituality. -The Observer 
"Is There Life After Notre Dame?" an Alumni-Student reception, will be presented Wednesday from 7-9 p.m. at Theodore's. Alumni board members :epresenting such career areas as law, business, engineer­mg, computer technology, accounting, architecture, sci­ence and education will discuss their careers. Free pizza and soft drinks will be served. -The Observer 
The 14th annual American Music Awards selected Huey Lewis and the News as favorite duo or group and named Whitney Houston's album of the same name the favorite album for 1986. Other awards in the pop cat­egory presented Monday night in Los Angeles included Lionel Richie's "Dancing on the Ceiling" as favorite video single; Billy Ocean for favorite male video artist and Madonna for favorite female video artist· and Lionel Richie and Whitney Houston for favorite maie and female vocalists. -Associated Press 

Weather 
Heat wave. The mercury continues to rocket above the zero mark in South Bend today with a high in the low to mid 20s, a 50 percent chance of snow and in­creasing cloudiness. Cloudy tonigllt with a 30 percent chance of snow during the evemng. Low 15 to 20. Mostly sunny Wed­


nesday. High 25 to 30. -Associated Press 

=­

Design Editor .. . ...... Alice Kroeger ........................................... Kris Murphy Design Auistant . . . . Mike Mojica Viewpoint Layout. ........ Kathleen Moran Typesetter . . . .......... John Connelly Accent Copy Editor..... . ..... Tom Beatty .................. Jose Novas Accent Layout......... . . . Carey Gels News Editor... . ... Mary Hellmann Typists.......... . Colleen Foy Copy Editor.. . Chris Julka ND Day Editor ..... ............ Ron Almiron Sports Copy Editor....... . ..... Pete Gegen SMC Day Editor ..... Theresa Harrington Viewpoint Copy Editor.. .. Sara Marley Ad Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sharon Emmite Photographer... Damian Chin 
The Oblerv~r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Oblen~r is a member of Tbr Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Student's trip to Soviet Union brings church metaphor to mind 
We hear a confusion of views on the Soviet 
Union nowadays, even with kremlinologists and 
Peter Jennings. 
First, the news media tells us the Soviet Union is not very different from the U.S. at all, though somewhat entrenched in conservative ways. Fortunately in this last respect, a vigorous young reformer named Mikhail Gorbachev has come on the scene, who not only has had it with the fogeys, but whose wife supposedly stuns the West as some sort of new Jacqueline Kennedy. 
Then from our leading businessmen there is the refrain about how low the Soviet standard of living is. This is often used to justify why we fight wars, plot insurrections and form al­liances against them. Amazing, isn't it, that we make all of this fuss in geopolitics just because we think their standard of living should be higher. 
Finally, if we are to believe and the thousands toting AK-47's in this world, the Communist Bloc embraces an epic movement of altruistic heroes about to liberate us from our chains and usher in a age of utopia--if only we'd let them. 
In all of this, however, there is one important aspect of this subject to which the media and academia give surprisingly little attention: the Soviet Union and its bloc behave almost precisely as a church does. 
What? Is this guy missing a few cards? The obvious question is, How can the Soviet bloc be a church at all if it professes atheism? 
Undoubtedly Marx called theism the "opiate of the masses" while proclaiming that every­thing is ultimately matter in motion. In fact his followers continue to do so even in this ag~ of quantum mechanics. Yet, when I visited Rus­sia last year, there were some things about the place that did not fit into this neat equation. 
First there was the seemingly interminable queue of Soviet citizens waiting for hours in 15-below weather just to view the remains of Lenin. You would have thought by now they would have outgrown it all. But on the contrary, they stood in line with insouciant patience. Medieval pilgrims anxious to gaze upon the relics of some martyred saint could not have been more devout. Then there was the Moscow theatre. Progressive? Trenchant with social realism? First I saw an opera about Alexander Nevsky, a real-life Russian prince of the 13th century, who valiantly defending the poor vil­lage virgins in one battle scene after another against the thoroughly ruthless Teutonic Knights. These vile German invaders howled a frightening pagan chant and gave a man in a goat's horn helmet the fascist salute. Naturally, the crafty Nevsky defeated these dastardly pre-
Chris Julka 

Copy Editor ' 

Nazis, and everybody lived happily ever after, 
except the Germans of course. Never mind that 
Nevsky later betrayed his people and his own 
brother to the Mongols, whose domination was 
to last centuries afterward. 
The ballet will be better, I thought. But in­stead of Swan Lake, I was treated to men in brown shirts and dark tights goose-stepping before the Chicago skyline in something called the "Crushing of Fascism," until a fair lad in white tights (Joe Stalin) gloriously swept them off the stage. 
Could anything be closer to the morality plays of the Middle Ages? I thought. 
Finally on a train to Leningrad I happened to glimpse something called the Wor~d Marxist Review. It read just like a catechism: "Why ~ust the Ca~it~lists be converted?" "Why are 1s the Kremhn mfallible?" "When will the mil­lenial kingdom of the worker's paradise come?" Everything was impeccably reasoned. Numerous Marxist theologians and party congresses were cited to define doctrine. The Kremlin started sounding like the Vatican (or an anti-Vatican), and the Politburo like some Hegelian college of cardinals. 
Alm.ost. makes Y?U want to repent for being a Cap1tahst Cathohc, doesn't it? 

The Minority Concerns Committee of Student Gov't proudly presents a lecture 
by 



Dr. Jacob H. Carruthers Director of the Kemetic Institute in Chicago 
entitled: "The Relationship Between Ancient Egyptian Civilization and Greek Philosophy" 
When: Wed., Jan. 28, 1987 at 7:00pm Where: Memorial Library Aud. Free Admission Reception to follow in Library Lounge 


Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday lhrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
-------·---~-----------­
~-----~----------­
The Observer 
.. 


The white shadow 
The Washington Monument stands as a pale shadow behind a game of ice hockey on the Reflecting Pool of the Lincoln Memorial. Washington is under a winter storm watch with up to five inches of snow expected. 
• 
Are you good with the Macintosh? 

• 
Are you interested in advertising ? 

• 
Would you like to be employed as a 


typesetter and graphic artist  ?  
rrlienjoin . . .  
~~e Notre Dame ~\~)~@)][~§  
Adworks  is  currently  expanding  its  

typesetting staff. Contact Matt McGlynn at 239-6757 (ADW-ORKS) for details. 



NAUGLES® 272-5455 
~ TO YOUR DORM! '• 
a::
:c 
I­
1.1.1 TACO'S ~ Crisp Taco 1.00 
Soft Taco 1.25 Fajita Taco'"""'' 1.50

Q 
a:: 
Macho Taco 1.75

~ 
0
:c 
... 
C\1 BURRI10'S 
Bean Burrito 1.50 Meat Burrito 2.25 Combo Burrito 2.00 Cheese Burrito 1.75 
Make It Macho or Wet Additional .75 

~ SALADS
a::
:c Salad Platter 2.75 1-Tostada Grande 3.25 
~ 
Q 
NEW PIAITERS 

a:: 
~ Enchilada 3.00 0 Soft Taco 3.00:c Ranchero' 3.00 
... Fajita~Steak' 3.75 
C\1 
(Includes Beans.C'-. Salad & En,_) ·wuh Sour Cream 

NITELY 5-12 
~0\)~~\) ~~~ 

NACHOS 
Nachos & Cheese 1.25 Macho Nachos 2.25
~ 

a:: Beans & Cheese 1.00
:c 
I­
1.1.11\:1 

~; FROM THE GRILL 
cg Naugleburger 2.00 or Fashion 1.50 ~0 Chicken Sandwich 1.75 Macho Fries 1.00 
a:: ::a 
~~ 
C\1-1 

:c DRINKS
::a

c: Pepsi, Diet Peps~ Sllce, Root Beer, Dr. Pepper, U!monade, Ice Tea 
l..lters 1.00 
MUk Shakes' 1.25 
501 Dlxleway North Roseland 
272-5455 
Plus Tax on Above l'lta!s 
6.00 Minimum Order 

Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 3 



Sandinistas release American 'spy' arrested last month for espionage 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sam Hall, an American arrested last month in a restricted military area near Managua who later claimed he was on a spy mis­sion, will be released for health reasons to the custody of his brother, Rep. Tony Hall, the Nicaraguan embassy an­nounced Monday. 
The decision was taken after a medical checkup and clinical reports on the 49-year-old pris­oner determined he had a con­dition that could not be cared for properly in Nicaragua, said the embassy spokeswoman, Sarali Porta. 
The ailment was not describ­ed. 
Hall, who was arrested Dec. 12, said at a news conference in Managua 10 days later that he was spying on military in­stallations on behalf of three men code named Tinker, Evers and Chance. 
He also claimed in a CBS-TV interview with Mike Wallace that he was the only remaining member of the Phoenix Bat­talion, which he described as a counter-terrorist paramilitary organization. 
Ambassador Carlos Tunner­mann has been instructed by his government to get in touch with Rep. Hall, an Ohio Demo­crat, and "let him know he can travel to Managua as soon as possible so his brother can return with him to the United States and receive the needed treatment," Porta said in a statement read to The Associ­ated Press. 
Nicaraguan officials said after Hall's arrest near the Punta Huete airbase, 13 miles northeast of Managua, that he had maps of the installation in his shoe. 
The congressman feared his brother would be put on trial and sentenced to more than the 30 years given to Eugene Hasenfus, another American who was pardoned Dec. 18 and released in an act of clemency last Christmas. 
Hasenfus, the sole survivor of an Oct. 5 airplane crash in which three other men were killed, confessed at a trial that he had been smuggling weap­ons to anti-government Nicaraguan rebels. 
Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega turned Hasenfus over to Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., and to Hasenfus' wife, Sally, at a ceremony in Managua. 
Ortega said the release was "a Christmas message from the Nicaraguan people to the people of the United States, a very concrete message of peace." 
The administration con­siders the Sandinistas a Mar­xist dictatorship in league with the Soviet Union and Cuba and a threat to U.S. security and non-Communist Central Amer­ican states. 
The Nicaraguan government has rejected allegations that it is fomenting subversion in the hemisphere and said it is threatened by a possible U.S. military invasion. 

Health services van, LeMans mall discussed byBoard ofProgramming 
By SHARON HEGG Staff Reporter 
Availability of a health ser­vices van and plans for the pro­posed LeMans mini-mall were discussed at Monday's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
Student Body President Jeanne Heller announced that a health services van has been in operation since Jan. 19 to transport students to the hospi­tal and to doctor appointments. 

Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
John Gardiner said he would prepare proposals for ap­proaching campus media to get 
advertising  space  for  
GLNDSMC.  
Senate  members  also  dis­ 

cussed a proposal written by Brian Holst providing for a "fair and favorable means of relocating the displaced resi­dents" of Howard, Holy Cross, and Carroll halls. 
Holst presented a proposal for relocating the residents of Howard, Holy Cross and Car­roll halls which he had drafted with Jim Bradford and John Powers, the presidents of Howard and Holy Cross, respectively. 
However, "to obtain the ser­vice, appointments must be made through health ser­vices," added Mary Fisher, judicial commissioner. 
Heller also said she met with Jason Lindower, controller and business manager, about the proposed LeMans mini-mall. 
Instead of opening a shoe shop, Lindower suggested that the dry-cleaning service in LeMans do shoe repairs. 
Lindower told Heller that in order to get a flower shop in 


Grads 
continuedfrom page 1 

been preceded by ques­tionaires like it for approxi­mately the last fifteen years, said McCollester. 
The average starting salary of $27,077 for a graduate of the College of Engineering sur­passes the average salary of graduates from every other college, the survey reported. Following in decreasing order, College of Science graduates received an average starting salary of $23,597, Arts and Let­ters graduates $23,309, and Col­lege of Business Administra­tion graduates $23,093, the study said. 
Nevertheless these figures are far from the whole story and misleading if looked at 

Open Meeting 
ofthe 
Freshmen Advisory Council 
Wednesday, January 28 Rm. 124 Hayes Healy 7:00pm 
All freshmen are welcome 
a______________________________________________________________________________________ ­
the basement, Saint Mary's might have to invest more money than would be worthwhile. The money used for the flower shop would draw funds away from television re­pairs in the lobbies or installing big screen T.V.'s in the dorms. 
Heller also met with Leslie Hitchcock, chief accountant of the business office, about in­creasing the student govern­ment fee on tuition from the current $12 per semester. to the $15 per semester. 
alone, said McCoHester. "Success rates are far more iir~portant than salary," he 
Said. 
The success rate is the num­ber of students seeking employ­ment divided by those actually finding it, McCollester said. On this index the Colleges of Engi­neering and Business Adminis­tration were highest with rates of 72.6% and 70.5% respective­ly, while the College of Science had a success rate 52.2% and the College of Arts and Letters the lowest rate of 31.7%, accor­ding to the survey. 




Lee's 
continued/rom page 1 
were Mark Runfola, 20, of Keenan Hall; William Griffin, 20, of Winnetka, IL.; and Daniel McBreen, 20, of Glen­view, IL. 
Arrested on charges of resist­ing law enforcement and minor in a tavern were Edwin Quinn, 19, of Keenan; David Kidder, 19, of Alumni; Joseph Suplick, 19, of Alumni; and Meghan Rafferty, 20, of Holy Cross, Saint Mary's. 
Also arrested for charges of resisting law enforcement and minor in a tavern were John Mikulak, 19, of Keenan; Laurin Dodd, 19, of Alumni; Kevin Kane, 20, of Holy Cross, Notre Dame; John Wichart, 19, of Alumni; and Mark Gibbs, 20, of Alumni. 
------------------------~--------­
... 
Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 4
The Observer 

Aquino proves control in permitting protest 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -Pres­ident Corazon Aquino sent Cabinet ministers to join 15,000 protesters marching on the presidential palace Monday, defusing some of the wrath over last week's shootings and proving her control over the military. 
She overruled military offi­cers who said they could not ensure her safety. 
Aquino lifted barricades around Malacanang Palace and kept soldiers away to allow students, workers and peasants to march to condemn the killings of 12 leftist protesters by marines last Thursday. 
She dispatched at least eight of her ministers to lock arms with demonstrators Monday and lead them peacefully to the palace gates. 
Her action softened the anger of both left-and right-wing groups, who said her adminis­tration could not control the military and was responsible for a street clash bloodier than any during the 20-year Marcos era. 
Aquino, who took office 11 months ago when a "people power" revolution sent Presi­dent Ferdinand Marcos fleeing into Hawaiian exile, wanted to show her sympathy with the demonstrators, officials said. 
"You see, all the senior offi­cials of this government are here to make a point, that this government is committed to peace," Dodie Limaoco, manager of the government television station, shouted to the crowd through a bullhorn. 
"We can say now that Malacanang is truly for the people," said Leandro Alejandro, secretary-general of the left-wing Bayan (Country) movement, which oganized the rally. 
"I'm glad it's over," Na­tional Affairs Minister Aquilino Pimentel quoted Aquino as saying after the march. She did not meet the protesters. 
The rally began in the early afternoon. About 10,000 mem­bers of labor, church, urban poor, left-wing and other groups streamed from five di­rections to converge on a lot behind the statue of national hero Andres Bonafacio. 
Organizers accused Aquino of abandoning her pledge to give priority to helping soci­ety's downtrodden. They demanded the resignations of top military and police officers whom they blamed for last week's killings during a demonstration for land reform. 
Office workers showered marchers with yellow confetti when they reached Mendiola Bridge. It was there that 12 demonstrators, out of a group of 10,000, were gunned down while trying to break through police cordons. The palace is about 300 yards south of the bridge. 
The marchers were joined at the bridge by about 5,000 sup­porters. 
3,0001raqicasualtiesclaimed by Iranians in latest fighting 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran said its troops turned a battle area "into a graveyard for the Iraqi forces" Monday, killing or wounding 3,000 of the foe in a push that brought Iran closer to the southern Iraqi port city of Basra. 
Iraq said on the other hand that Iran had not advanced "even a single inch" and said the Iranians were retreating. It claimed Iran suffered 2,000 casualties in the overnight fighting and conceded only 30 casualties among its men. 
The rival claims coincided with the opening of a pan­Islamic summit in Kuwait, at which Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, ap­pealed to Iran and Iraq to end the war. 
"God beckons us to mediate and reconcile them," he said. 
The Tehran government claimed that Iraq launched a counteroffensive to coincide with the conference of 43 Is­lamic countries in neighboring Kuwait but that the attack was defeated. 
The summit of the Organiza­

Faculty and Friends Dinner Dance 
Live Band Frlday,feb.6 at the Monogram Room 
6 p.m. to 12 a.m. 

Dinner Dance $20.00 per person Dance only $5.00 per person MAIL CHr:cKS TO: Marian Cerny 2918 c:.rollne St. 
5oulh IJend. ln. ~14 o-Dine l'eb. :& ror Jnro C.U 288-SN3 
tion of Islamic Conference was boycotted by Iran, which ac­cused Kuwait of supporting Iraq in the war, calling the ac­tion an unsafe venue. 
In Washington on Monday, the State Department said Iraqi forces had not attempted a counteroffensive. 
A state Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Iranian troops were keeping up a severe ar­tillery barrage against Basra, Iraq's second largest city with 1 million people. 
The Iranian and Iraqi battle claims were monitored in Nicosia. The two Persian Gulf neighbors have been at war since September 1980. 
Iran launched its big ground offensive toward Basra on Jan. 9, saying it was out to destroy Iraq's "war machine." 
IRNA quoted a military com­mander as saying the Iraqis tried to launch a three-pronged counteroffensive Sunday night. 
"The enemy had planned in vain to launch counterattacks on the eve of the Kuwaiti sum­mit and use it as a propaganda ploy," the agency said. 

The Observer/ Damian Chin 

Homeward bound from Holy Cross, trudge through the parking Keeping their eyes fixed on the ground beneath lot on their way home from a day's work. them so as to avoid the glare of the sun­brightened snow, Loraine and Annie, two maids 
Career & Placement Services Presents 
Brian Brennan 
V.P. & Director of 
Corporate Staffing Michigan National Corporation 
speaking on: Career Opportunities In an Era of Interstate Banking Wednesday, January 28, 1987 
7 p.m. Notre Dame Room -Morris Inn ­Reception to follow 
Michigan National Banks: 

Discover a new attitude in banking 
At Michigan National Banks, we have a new attitude toward banking. It's evident in our progressive philosophy, innovative 
Our encourage­

products and services and dedication to new technology.lt's 
ment of initiative,

also evident in our appreciation of the enthusiasm and fresh 
independence and

ideas of recent college graduates. 
individual achievement We know you're eager to start your career as fast as in our employees has helped possible. That's why we get you involved in the to make us Michigan's leading business of banking from day one. And, the provider of financial services for Michigan National team provides plenty consumers and middle market companies. of support to help you get your If you have an MBA or four year degree in training where it counts...on accounting, finance, business, economics or liberal the job. arts, join a company that is challenging the traditional and establishing new attitud_!!S in banking. 
We'll be conducting on campus interviews on Wednesday, February 18th. Please see the Office of Career Planning & Placement for additional information. Equal Opportunity 
Employer. 

~Nadonaln..ks 
The smart money is with us 
--------------~----~-----------------------------~----------------------------------------~--~-------.--------------~s~,----~ 
The Observer 
Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 5 



Kookaburra III selected to face Stars & Stripes for America's Cup 

Associated Press 
FREMANTLE, Australia ­Kookaburra III, winner of the Australian defense trials, was selected Monday to defend the America's Cup against skipper Dennis Connor and Stars & Stipes. 
The choice came on Australia Day, a national holiday celebrating the country's founding 199 years ago. 
Kookaburra III was picked by the Royal Perth Yacht Club race committee over stablemate Kookaburra II fol­lowing several days of speed trials. Kookaburra III will meet Stars & Stripes in the best-of-seven championship se­ries starting Jan. 31. 
Kookaburra III emerged as the top boat in defense trials, but since Kookaburra II was owned by the same syndicate, that boat could have been used in the final series if it had proved faster. Speed trials over the weekend, however, showed 
UCLA's Jack Haley (15) passes as Notre Dame's Gary Voce Kookaburra III to be the faster 
supplies the defense. Mike Szymanski previews tonight's Notre of the two hull designs. 
Dame-Dayton contest beginning on page 16. Kookaburra II had not been 

IU criticised for endorsing move to protect athletes from coaches 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana University's Faculty Council has harmed the school's image in the General Assembly with its recent statement on student­athletes' rights to be protected from physical and verbal abuse by their coaches, Rep. Jerry Bales said Monday. 
"Before you criticize some­one else's house, clean up your own house," Bales said. "People have come up to me and said, 'Why doesn't the fac­ulty council mind their own business?"' 
Bales, R-Bloomington, said he has written to the Faculty Council criticizing its 18-16 en­dorsement last Tuesday of the statement, which says athletes should not tolerate mistreat­ment by coaches. 
IV lobbyists have felt the brunt of the wrath, Bales said. "So it's going to hurt us (higher education)." He said the fac­ulty council should address academic problems. 
Bales said other politicians, expressing their own opinions and those of their constituents, have said things such as "their son or daughter has attended IU for four years and has never seen a full professor," or "they have an instructor who can't speak English." 
Indiana football coach Bill Mallory told the Bloomington Herald-Telephone that the statement was "totally ridiculous. I don't buy that bit about someone telling us how to run our program. We don't tell them how to run theirs. 
"There are times I had to get my tail kicked," he added, "and I was grateful some people cared about me enough to give me the direction I needed. Without that, I wouldn't be where I am today." 
According to the statement, "Athletes shall not be sub­jected to physically or verbally abusive, intimidating, coer­cive, humiliating or degrading behavior. Athletes shall be in­formed that they enjoy ... rights and that the university will insure that they are not abridged. 
"Athletes shall also be en­couraged to report any viola­tions of these policies to the ap­propriate university authorities." 
Whitney Pope, a sociology professor who helped draft the statement, defended the neces­sity for it. 
"Just because things are traditional in athletics does not mean they are appropriate in a university environment," he said. "Whether or not these things have been acceptable in the past, we are trying to deal with things that are acceptable today." 
In fact, Pope believes a similar statement would be ap­propriate for all IV students. However, members of the council's student athlete sub­committee were charged only with exploring sports, he said. 
Controversy erupted because the bill of rights appears to be aimed at basketball coach Bob Knight. Early in the council's debate, a professor called Knight a "flagrant offender" for verbally abusing athletes. Some people have wondered if the faculty council's vote was influenced by the portrayal of Knight in the recently released book "Season on the Brink." 
In the book, about Knight during last year's basketball season, he is portrayed as a coaching genius and a beacon of honesty in the sometimes corrupt world of big-time col­lege athletics. But Knight also is pictured as having a volcanic temper that he unleashes on players in torrents of profanity. 

Darling, Teufel plead no contest 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-New York Mets infielder Tim Teufel and pitcher Ron Darling pleaded no contest Monday to reduced misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest stemming from an altercation with Hous­ton police outside a nightclub last summer. 
As part of the plea bargain arrangement, reached after nearly three hours of discus­sions Monday in a Harris County court, misdemeanor court appearance. charges against two other Mets State District Judge Joe players, pitchers Bo.b Ojeda Kegans did not lift a gag order 
·and Rick Aguilera, were dis-imposed in the case and none missed. of the players could be reached 
Teufel, 28, and Darling, 26, for immediate comment. were fined $200 each and placed on one year probation. The four players were ar­
rested July 19 following a con­
Terms of the probation were frontation with police at not immedidately known. Cooter's nightclub. Police said Teufel and Darling, accompa­that the incident began when nied by their wives and attor­Teufel left the nightclub's neys, were meeting with proba­premises with an alcoholic tion officers following a brief drink, a violation of state law. 
modified since May to keep her as a bench mark to for compar­ison with Kookaburra III, which was modified often. In an effort to increase speed, Kookaburra II was equipped with a copy of Kookaburra III's winged-keel. 
A spokesman for the club's America's Cup committee, said Royal Perth "would have been delighted" to defend the Cup with Kookaburra II, but Kookaburra III showed a slight edge. 
Speed trials plus computer analysis determined the final selection. 
At the same time, Alan Bond, the Perth businessman who won the Cup from the New York Yacht Club in 1983, made a peace offer in the form of a $100,000 check to rival Perth tycoon Kevin Parry, owner of the Kookaburras. 
Kookaburra III eliminated Bond's Australia IV last week. But instead of mutual con­gratulations, an angry Parry accused Bond of being "chil­dish" and "spiteful." 
Besides the financial sup­port, Bond said Kookaburra III also could fly the boxing Kan­garoo flag that he had made his battle flag in 1983 when his Australia II defeated Conner, then skipper of Liberty. 
Conner pulled a surprise from his sail bin on Sunday in the form of a new spinnaker with uplift pockets that is nick­named "Dolly" in honor of country singer Dolly Parton. The sail is on loan from the New York Yacht Club's America II, which was eliminated from the challenge round last month. 
The new spinnaker has three horizontal rows of pockets in the top third of the otherwise normal spinnaker. The pockets inflate with wind and add extra power to the top of the sail. 
"I don't know all the reasons why it works, but it tested faster than anything else we used. You'll probably see it during the America's Cup," said Tom Whidden, tactician for Stars & Stripes. 


BRUNa•s 
• it\"a\ Itt
\tt\~ ~
Follow 23 South to: 2610 Prairie Ave. 
South Bend 
288-3320 
Free Delivery to ND and SMC campuses Spm to 1Opm monday through Saturday 
Special this month: 14 inch Pizza with 1 item $6.00 18 inch Pizza with 1 item $12.00 
THERE'S STILL 
TIME TO PREPARE 

KAPLAN 


STANLf YH. KAPI. AN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization 
CAU DAYS, MNINGS AND WEEKENDS. WI ARE ENROWNG NOW! 1117 [. South Bend Ave. 
Phone 219/272-41]~ 

South Bend, IN ¥6}7 



\1ie\V~_O_i_n_t____________
Tues-day,J-anuar-y27,-1987--page6 
Freedom in a society must be shared by everyone 
Editor's note: The foUowing is an ex­cerpt from a speech delivered at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration in South Bend by Dr. Howard G. Adams on Monday, Jan. 19, 1987. 
It is from the perspective of having known and heard Dr. Martin Luther King speak that I wish to address you today. My title is what I see as "The Dilemma and Challenges of Our Times" which is taken from the theme of this year's celebration. 
Howard G. Adams 
guest column 

Recently, I was asked by a colleague at Notre Dame, "Why is the celebration of Dr. King's birth such an important event for black people in America?'' I responded first by stating that the celebration of peace and freedom transcends all barriers including race -so it should not be a holiday celebrated exclusively by blacks. I added also that I could not speak for all black people, only for myself. He challenged me to explain this. I told him that I am 46 years old and in my lifetime my right to quality, integrated schools occured barely 30 years ago; my right to vote, 20 years ago; my right to work wher­ever I qualified, 22 years ago; my right to fair housing, barely 17 years ago. And many of these new freedoms can be credited to the work of Dr. King. So for me, January 15 is real, it is special. It is a time for me to reflect, recharge and recommit myself to the challenges that confront all of us as we work to make America a more just nation. 
Now some of you will say, "He's talking about problems of yesterday. He's still living in the past." I say to you, look around you and you will see why I, as a black American, cannot af­ford to take my freedom for granted -you really only have to think about several incidents that took place in 1986 to understand why this is so. For ex­ample: in Philadelphia, a black couple's house was rocked and fire bombed. They were told white only, get out of this neighborhood. In Queens, New York, a black man was clubbed and chased to his death while fleeing from a group of white teenagers. Most recently in Forsyth, Georgia, a peace­ful march for freedom of expression was stopped by an angry white mob. The chant, "blacks not allowed here." These and similar incidents, which oc­cur more frequently than we wish to admit, remind us that black people can­not take their freedom for granted. We 
Doonesbury 
must keep the torch that Dr. King lit 
ever burning. 

How might we use his life to sym­
bolize direction for us today? We might 
start by remembering what he stood 
for -"A More Just Society" for all to 
enjoy. A key word in Dr. King's quest 
for" A More Just Society" was the word 
freedom. He challenged us through his 
life, his deeds, and his words that: 1. 
Each person must be ever vigilant to 
preserve hisher own freedom. 2. No 
price is too great to pay for to secure 
one's freedom. 3. When freedom is 
denied to anyone, it is denied to all. 
To the young people, regardless of 
whether you are black or white, each 
one of you must be vigilantly on guard 
to preserve your own freedom; 
freedom of mind; freedom of body; 
freedom of spirit. Young people, 
develop your mind and free it of super­
stition and ignorance. Make your 
bodies free by staying away from drugs 
and alcohol. Free your spirits by shed­
ding hatred and the bitter pill of racism. 
To the older black brothers and 
sisters, I say: There is no price too 
great to pay for one's freedom. And, 
therefore, it should never get too hot or 
too cold for you to go to the polls and 
vote. It should never rain or snow too 
much to keep you from going to the 
schools to assist with the education of 
your children. Lines should never get 
too long for you to wait to sign a petition 
of redress in the cause of justice and 
equality. Freedom is yours to preserve. 
Lastly, when freedom is denied to anyone -be they Jew or gentile, black or white, rich or poor, old or young, male or female -freedom is denied to all. And, therefore, we cannot sit back and say "Well, that's the way it is!" Rather, we must lift our voices and con­demn racism on all fronts and by any person or group. We must lift out voices in protest to our government ·when it offers educational aid to free the minds of boys and girls in Nicaragua, but denies that aid to boys and girls in America. Indeed, we must raise our voices in protest when 14 million dollars can be lost in the basement of the White House and we are slow to investigate. Yet, we hold major inquiries in order to find loopholes to kill headstart. 
When freedom is denied to anyone, it is denied to all ! 
We were blessed with the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. He touched the soul of America and caused it to exam­ine itself. However, we have Dr. King's dream with us today -a dream of hope that, "One day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its 
I !XJN'T KNOll/, J04Nic. trs tM IJ(JT SURE I CAN {,(}OfV'ff G£TANY REAL IAIORK. A TRY,
l - Ill II  \  /JONEAT R./CI<..I'O ffOM& · {)()IT IF I COI.JLP. I  
Ibe Observer P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the vle"iS of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
creed. We hold these truths to be self­evident: that all men are created equal." 
But Dr. King is dead -taken from us by an assassin's bullet. You and I are left. You and I must carry the banner of freedom forward. In so doing, we must dedicate ourselves to these simple yet difficult tasks. We must: 1. Accept the responsibility to extend and preserve freedom for all. 2. Strive to eliminate racism and hatred from our lives so that people of good will can co-exist together. 3. Work to reorder our priorities on education of our youth, care for the elderly, defense for our country, food and shelter for our poor. 
4. And most importantly, re-think what we teach our children. This final point -what we teach our children -needs spe­cial attention. It is said that "Truth does not come to light of itself, rather it is made known through the daily lives of those who teach it." 
In the spirit of Dr. King's life and the legacy of love and brotherhood that he left us, let us go forth teaching love, respect, and compassion for the per­sonhood of each child, man and woman. 
It is my hope that from our shared experiences of this celebration, that each of us will gain renewed courage to examine the true meaning of freedom and equality for all. And then, we will work to extend and preserve that freedom for the least among us. 
Dr. Howard G. Adams is the Execu­tive Director of the National Consor­tium for Minorities with Graduate Degrees in Engineering, Inc., GEM ­cheadquarters at the University of Notre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Negotiations with Iran occured despite ban 
Dear Editor: 
I don't even know where to begin res­ponding to John Hallissy's column in the Jan. 23 Observer. It contains so many outrageous assumptions and out­right fallacies that I almost had to wonder if it was a serious editorial. 
While I must admit that there are American citizens, including William Buckley, being held by "Lebanese thugs", I refuse to believe that his pres­ence makes the situation any more dire or important than any other hostage situation. If Buckley isn't prepared to die for his country and the secrets he knows, he is (or was, as the case may be) in the wrong business. 
As for the "other American hostages" (which makes me feel really important), any one of these is just as important as Buckley of the CIA. And there is only one way to deal with ter­rorism. President Reagan has said in the past that the United States will not negotiate with terrorists. Or doesn't he remember that? Reagan said when the story of the arms sale to Iran first be­came public that the weapons sale was not intended as a ransom for American hostages. Later, documents were dis­covered which state that the purpose of the arms sale was to free hostages in Lebanon. I call that negotiating, even if it is through a middleman in Teheran. 
And I really don't believe Reagan sent weapons to Iran to help favored factions in power after Khomeini. By what source did Mr. Hallissy come into 
Garry Trudeau 

r------" 
7HAT5 t!NOUGH, HONtY. 
We'I?C 
ON IT. 
I 

General Board 
the information that Khomeini is "not long for this world"? Could this some­how be linked to Oral Roberts' impend­ing doom should he not raise enough money? When Reagan deals with the Iranian government, he deals with Khomeini, the head of that government. Saying Reagan is dealing with factions of the government is like saying Mik­hail Gorbachev negotiates treaties with the Democratic Party. 
Was the arms sale to Iran illegal? Yes. The U.S. was in the midst of a boycott of military hardware to Iran at the time the story of the sale was re­ported. The Reagan administration vio­lated that boycott, regardless of the good intentions behind the violation. The road to Hell is paved with ... 
It is safe to say that it is unlikely that Lieutenant Colonel North will testify to what his role actually was in this whole affair, at least until he is granted sub­stantial immunity from prosecution. So it seems even more unlikely that he will be punished for what he has allegedly done. 
"The results of all this? Well, not all the hostages were freed... and Buck­ley is reported to have been tortured to death.'' Add to this the recent abduction of four more Americans in Beirut and it starts to sound like a dismal failure. 
I can't agree that this situation qualifies as one of the Reagan admin­istration's finest hours. I do think, however, that if Cowboy Dutch Reagan is going to wave his shiny six-guns, he ought to be prepared to use them. 
Patrick Grady Grace Hall 

Quote of the day 
"'Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all." 
A/fred Lord Tennyson (1809-1892) "In Memoriam" 

Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Joe Murphy Business Manager ............................ Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ........................................ Chris Bowler Photography Editor .................................. James Carroll News Editor ................................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ......... Mary Carol Creedon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Christopher Murphy Advertsing Manager ...........................Anne M. Culligan Sports Editor ........................................ Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager ................................... Francis X. Maione Accent Editor ............................................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ................................... Shawn Sexton Saint Mary's Editor ................................ Margie Kersten Controller ............................................. Alex VonderHaar News Editor .......................................... Mark Pankowski Graphic Arts Manager ........................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1888 
Business 
Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 7 
Needs of Notre Dame community 
Batteries become
force importance of fund raising 
a Kodak priority 
By STAN MOSZCZENSKI In order to determine these The University stated in its 
Business Writer priorities, officers meet with 1982 Priorities and Commit­
Notre Dame's excellent aca­demic reputation has enabled the school to receive substan­tial amounts of financial grants over the years. The Univer­sity's intelligent use of these grants has led to a rapid growth rate with respect to both the school's reputation and its campus. 
The Notre Dame Develop­ment Department solicits the grants that Notre Dame receives from corporations and individuals. It is surprising that this department generates so many grants, considering its small size compared to other schools. 
Because Notre Dame does not receive aid from the Church, nor state or federal government, fund raising is more necessary here than at a state institution. One area where fund raising is always needed is that of financial aid for students. 
"Invariably, financial aid is always going to be number one," said Michael Kenahan, director of foundation and cor­porate relations at the Univer­sity. 
Financial aid is always a number-one priority. However, there must be a method of de­termining what other areas are in need of aid. 
Kenahan said, "The way we work here is that the officers of the University determine what we call 'University priorities'." 
the deans of the various col­leges who present their wants and needs. 
One example that made the list of needs was the recently renovated LaFortune Student Center. 
"'Hey, the social life around here stinks', was the outcry coming from the students," Kenahan said. "They'd say 'You go to other universities and they have a great place to hang around.'" 
The fact that student input was taken into account il­lustrates that the 'University priorities' concept does work. 
Another example of a current priority was also volunteered by Kenahan. 
"We need space. We don't have a real modern, state of the art, classroom building," he said. 
This lack of space has un­doubtedly been noticed by many students and professors in their cramped, overheated classrooms. Consequently, the development department is currently attempting to raise funds for a new classroom building that is scheduled to be built in the next few years. 
There exists a need not only for physical structures, but also for faculty development. 
Kenahan stated, "We need support for faculty, because we're losing them. They're going to work for industry be­cause they're getting better salaries and better research labs." 

The Observer is now recruiting for the following positions: 
Business Page Editor Business Page Writers 
Interested applicants should contact Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune or by phone at 23 9-7 4 71 . 
ments for Excellence report that faculty development and research expansion were major goals. Obviously, large amounts of financing are re­quired if such goals are to be accomplished. 
Such large amounts of financing are not necessarily easy to acquire, however. The development department works ceaselessly, day in and day out, with large corpora­tions in its efforts to secure donations to the school. 
"It is a process of cultivation and solicitation," said Kenahan, "in which the devel­opment department attempts to match Notre Dame's needs with the interests of the com­panies. The worst part is over­coming the frustration of waiting. You submit the pro­posal, and maybe six or nine months later you'll get an an­swer back and hopefully it won't be a form letter saying 'no thanks'." 
Many factors can enter into the decision of whether or not a company will donate to the University. Some companies will donate because Notre Dame has programs which are of interest to the company; the prospect of being able to con­tribute to the improvement of future recruits also spurs com­panies to give. Ifthe school par­ticularly excels in an area in which the company is inter­ested, it is a definite plus. 
Of course, there is the possi­bility that companies also can­not donate. If a company is ex­periencing hard times it will cut back donations or eliminate them altogether. At the present time, such a situation exists with the oil companies in America, due to the low price of oil. 
There is also the question of why a company would want to donate to a school. 
Kenahan reasoned, "They have a vested interest in the success of the place. They're interested in our recruits." 
And Notre Dame will con­tinue to do its best to inspire any kind of donation, as the fu­ture growth and improvement of the university will depend on this generosity. 
ON CAMPUS • IN TOWN • ACROSS THE USA 
The Notre Dame Credit Union has joined the CIRRUS national network of 24-hour teller machines. 
CIRRUS® 
You can use your Notre Dame Credit Union ATM Card: 
* 
On campus, at the A TM located at the Bus Stop *When you travel, at over 10,000 CIRRUS ATM locations 

* 
Right here in town, at any financial institution with a CIRRUS 


machine. The Notre Dame Credit Union ATM card is convenient, easy to use, and just one of the many benefits of belonging to the Notre Dame Credit Union. 

Eastman Kodak's new ad slogan -"Why get copper when you can go for the gold?" -is aiming for a large share of the $2.5 billion battery market. 
"It has turned into quite a war," noted Dean Witter analyst Eugene G. Glazer. "The battle, however, is mar­keting, since there is no real clear superiority." 
For years, life in the battery market was dull as two players dominated. Union Carbide's Eveready and Kraft's Duracell enjoyed the peaceful profitability of splitting sales about evenly, with several smaller manufacturers snatching what was left over. 

Alex VonderHaar 
Business Bits 

Then Kodak, observing the growing diversity of ~lectroni~ gadgets requiring batteries to operate, burst mto the picture last July. It has since captured five percent of the market, mostly at the expense of the small makers and Duracell. This has left Duracell and Eveready tied with 45 percent shares. 
To differentiate its product from copper-topped Duracell, Kodak has gold plated its contact tips, the part that allows the battery to pass electricity to the device. Although in some situations gold is a better conductor than copper, "They probably don't use that much gold to make a difference and even if they did, the average consumer would not be able to tell the difference under normal con­ditions," according to industry expert Robert A. Powers. 
"Go for the gold" has been working, but Kodak faces tough problems. The greatest comes from the world cur­rency markets. It does not make its own batteries but instead buys them from Japan's Matsushita. The rise of the yen has made the batteries more expensive for Kodak to purchase. Indeed, said Glazer, "The yen has got to be hurting Kodak's bottom line." 
Still, even with 10 percent annual growth projected, the power cell arena will be a jungle. Makers are coming out with the latest in consumer tests and discounts. For ex­ample, Kodak outperformed Duracell in a flashlight show­down. Durcell came back to defeat the camera company using toy birds. 
Nine-lived Eveready, on the other hand, has used other promotion efforts. They have added two free batteries to its four-pack of AA's and have offered a free nine-volt with the purchase of another one. 
This competition has interesting results. First, no longer does Kodak recommend Evereadies for its cameras. More imp.ortantly, consumers buying the latest photographic eqmpment should not expect to see the words "Batteries not included." 
• 
The Wall Street Journal recently collected some statis­tics on its more than two million subscribers. Their median age is 47, but only 13 percent are women. More than nine out of ten buyers are college graduates, and 44 percent work for small businesses. Contrary to what its name might say, the paper has nearly twice as many readers in California as in New York. 
• 
According to Everybody's Almanac, Pampers commer­cials do not appear on French television because of a regulation which forbids the showing of babies' bottoms. 
• 
When Schlitz closed its Milwaukee brewery in 1981, the Los Angeles area became the nation's biggest beer producer. Anheuser-Busch makes 10 million barrels a year in Van Nuys, Calif. Schlitz and Miller also have large capacity plants in the area. 
• 
Surveyed small business owners recently commented 
on the greatest problems they faced. In order, they were: 
(1) 
Cash flow squeeze 

(2) 
Liability insurance 


(3) 
Finding qualified, motivated employees 


(4) Controlling costs • Women executives sometimes have difficulty mingling 
their careers with their personal lives. A sample asked for the area most affected by their work: 
(1) 
Decision to have children 30 percent 

(2) 
Success of marriage 17 percent 

(3) 
Choice to marry 15percent 

(
4) Effectiveness as parent 13 percent 



----------------------------------------·----------~--­
Accent 
Women at Notre Dame 
find television microphones have said something like 'Is this stuck in their faces In their first a female conspiracy?' or 'Is this week here, and to face some dis­a coffee klatch?"' remarked Til­crimination as a minority among lman. "Today that doesn't hap­six thousand male students. pen. There were so few of us wo­"Some of the women just didn't men here at first that I knew 
Evolution from 
Male Bastion 
make the connection as to the every woman on the faculty. I trail-blazing that was going to be don't today; there are too many.
Editor's Note: The Observer ex­
rageous in expressing their imposed upon them," Jones And that's good, that's more nor­
plores the position of women at 
views. "This was a time in society said. "The ratio ofwomen to men mal." 
Notre Dame 15 years after 
when men were coming to was one to 17 and that kind of Although their three or four 
females were first admitted to 
realize that a more normal mode public stance and expectations years at Notre Dame may not ,; .·.
the University in a series ofarti­
of education would be men and laid on you as one of the early have been smooth, many of the · 
cles today and tomorrow. 
women living together," she women students could be some-women graduates from the early said. "It was really from the male what burdensome." years of coeducation feel that 
Sr. John Miriam Jones 

T
KATHY MARTIN students that the early initiative Also burdensome were some Notre Dame prepared them well Assistant Features Editor to admit women to the university of the chauvinistic notions that for a dominantly male profes­living and working In a male en­came." stereotyped women as bodies in-sional world. Jones called the vironment. prepared me well." he women of Notre Dame. It was difficult, however, to stead of brains. In the early university "a training ground for Notre Dame Is currently at­The phrase still sounds a bit foresee the awkward problems of years, the men would often what society is still like." "Hap­tempting to Increase housing for awkward In context of Ule"Vni­•.,transition when .ta~ 11!~~· ,,,, \¥PisUewhJ';ne¥_~.;_~e w~ pily, nts In order to nar­verslty's 1.30-year all-male tradi­ally arrived on campus. The men man around beatuse it WetS so·· "But etween the number tion. Every now and then an of Badin and Walsh resented rare. Jackle Bollas, one o( the ment o apply each year alumnus knocks on a Lyons or having their donns taken away early female valedlttnrlans, said Dr. e and the number Farley door early on a football to house the first ctass of ~otre. at the ten·year annlverSfiry ofthe fro ltted. In 1984, Ad-Saturday morning to see his old Dame women. Father Hesburgh admittance ofwomen that mat1y room and sighs or frowns at the replied, "If you want girls on menwouldn'tdatea'smar~ergb;l. pink carpet or yellow lace cur­campus you. can't put them lrt "Women -~re encouraged ·fo tains. Attempts to change the tents." Badin and Walsh w achieve Io the• claS$room, yet words of the Fight Song to "sons chosen on the basis ofthei when they dp~-~re they still and daughters" are usually and central location, ou cam femlnlt,te~n~;:~l¢\'ement booed or laughed at. which would provide mof;.e ef prlmaf:lJY•<fmascuUn¢
, 
"Notre Dame can't or won't ad­
tlve protection for the zS65 she said. ..· · ·••·•·••. ··..•· r mit enough women to make co­men. In the first year, men fro . Jones' advice to ijle 
r 
education a reality," read a 1971 the North Quad rarely saw a wq.~ was to ~ve patience, women students,r student editorial In the Obsetver man student, but a few yea~> though l~ was nard to.~ of qualified wo­
r 
after the decision to admit wo­later, Breen-Phillips and Farley.~ when they;had only two applicant pool men to the university was an­were converted towomen's hallsj~ yearsl~tatNptre to 40 percent.
r 
' nouneed. But In the fall of 1972, Many Notre Dame and Sain~J ts a very·slow 
r .365 women were admitted to a Mary's students were upset abo!,¢ "Jt t()(.)k time
' 
~ student body of 6357 men, and the two schools going their s~', where we are
,­
all three television networks ap­a rate ways. Because a large n~t Ch~n!g~ii.. fcwtj women's dorms
r 
r peared on campus to report that ber of Saint Mary's stud~p~ ttaq:·, women's admls­the "male bastion'' of Notre Notre Dame mC\Jors nofqfferei;
' 
of the total r 
Dame had given way. Today both at Saint Mary's, these women;w, 
r Notre Dame men and women cite were caught in their junlotca r the uneven ratio of male and senior years with the chol · 
, 
female students as the source of changing their major to o 
,r 
most social problems, but the fered at Saint Mary's or tra ratio has been narrowed since ring to Notre Dame. In 1972, 1972 from I woman to 17 men of 240 Notre Dame transfer?stU• to I woman to .3 men. The steady dents were from Saint Maijrs. rise In women's: admissions joining I 25 freshman in the first 
That was a reflects the steady growth In class of Notre Dame women. · 
lte decision," said Notre Dame's mission as a true Some male students protested th the two new "university," that is, a realistic the breakup of the merger be· 
balancing act is representation of the complete cause they would have only 300 
"replacement the­world outside the college Notre Dame women to take 
e will be accept­campus. courses with, Instead of 1500 
women and cuttingOn Dec. I. 1971, Hesburgh's Saint Mary's women. A student official announcement that Notre editorial in the Observer read, of coeducation, Dame would admit women the "That... Is not coeducation. That Dame has experienced a next fall followed the news of the is the old game played out by growth toward normaliza­failure of the scheduled Notre the Ivy League schools--bring ofthe·fl'tale-female ratio and Dame-Saint Mary's merger. The enough women here to dress up ,,,...,,.,.~,.,.,, p. Jones believes it is merger, designed to unify the the place, enough women to con­. . . e to lay to rest discussions on two schools Into one coeduca­tinue to attract top applicants .fres11tna.n yeat;,.at Saint women of Notre Dame. "The 
tional Institution founded by the who aren't Interested in a monas­. Mary'sattd.ttimsferr rito Notft:" problems with students today same religious community, fell tic type life, enough women so · Dame atter tbe er .{ell , -~tolger uniquely women's through at the last minute after that the Justice Department can't 
a complete study of the Integra­sue the University for discrimina­~~~U{lflf'~F~:r ·prclg~~~l'. Pie~~~~ft:~:l~l· l·;~h~~,r~:~ tion of faculty, curricula, and tion on the basis of sex." · 
, ~~~-~~ ~It w ~~!t:fflc~~ ~~~::.1; attitudes as well as the
building space. The primary ob­Another 1971 student, Ted stacles to the merger were Price, complained that women M 'There were so few of financial and logistical, but Fa­should not be admitted at all be­us women at the time, we just Tnt: women of Notre Dame ther Hesburgh said that the deci­cause they would compete with never added ourselves up," she have evolved from a remarkable 
sion for coeducation had been Notre Dame men in the job mar­As an example of Notre Dame's said. "The only difficult thing was novelty on campus to partners made Independent of the ket. "Women will have a detri­progress toward a normal male­learning to speak out for our­with men in learning and merger. According to Assistant mental effect ... and lessen our female relationship, she des­selves In class." achievement. Stereotypes be­Provost Sister John Miriam chances of securing a job," he cribed an Incident In the hall out-Notre Dame prepared tween the sexes are still cited as Jones, Notre Dame said, "We've wrote. side her offlce where she was McGregor In a concrete way for a social problem at the univer­decided on the rightness of Jones, advisor and friend to talking with three other women her position with General Mills. sity, but they are a social prob­coeducation. We'll do It on our the first group of women, wit­faculty members, all from her de­She Is the highest-ranking wo­lem of society Itself, and not own." nessed the difficulties they faced partment. Two men walked by; man In her division, and super­unique to Notre Dame. Living 
According to Jones, the choice at first. They assumed that since each stopped to chat, and then vises mostly middle-aged men. and working together, men and for coeducation came also from Notre Dame was open for them, went on. "Seven or eight years "I felt like a pioneer even after I women increase their sensitivity the male students at Notre Notre Dame was psychologically ago it would have been strange graduated," she said. "I truly to each other's situation and Dame. In the VIetnam era, stu­prepared for them. Some never to find four women faculty out in believe that the training I had at benefit from each other's collec­dents were outspoken and cou-expected to be such pioneers, to the hall together, and men would Notre Dame, getting used to tlve and individual insights. 
--·----------­

men play in the Church, and will A man who has a wife, or a sister have to be examined with it, said or a daughter who is very active Giarrante. and is a professional person
later 

soon begins to change the way 
According to Giarrante, he looks at things, but with a "Before women are ordained man who doesn't have a Jot of there needs to be an overall res­.association with women, who haping and redefining within the doesn't have the immediate
Women 
clerical structure of the Church. changes going on in his own life, We need a grassroots change to the attitudinal change is slower, break out of this patriarchal con­and that's why we probably find
and 

The Observer/Matt Honkanen
Dr. Isabel Charles sciousness. We need to redefine a place like Notre Dame lagging university steeped in Catholic here is 2000 years of tradition what the priesthood is. If women behind the general culture, tradition and known as a "male" and practice that is not going to arejust ordained with the system though surely this attitude is
the 

institution. There is no doubt change overnight. The fact that the way it is they will just be reflected in the general culture." that the Church plays a large part I've seen more change in my buying into some of the prob­Hesburgh reiterated this view, at Notre Dame, but does this lifetime than took place in the lems that already exist." saying that change can't be ex­
Church 
mean that women here are last 400 years at least indicates Hesburgh disagreed, saying. pected overnight, although there treated differently than women that change is happening. With "I think the priesthood is what it as been great change already at at non-Catholic universities? further discussion and change of is and it's not going to change. Notre Dame. He cited the com­MARY REYNOLDS thinking much more change will What would have to change is mitment to equalize the ratio of Assistant Features Editor Any evaluation of the status of take place," said Hesburgh. the attitude on who could be­women to men as proof of this women at Notre Dame has to "Women are becoming very, come a priest. But think it's not change. He also said the Univer­
}\ woman's place is in the take into account the history of very important in much of as much a theological problemas sity is constantly seeking for nt-Jome. Although this adage the University. When addressing Church administration," Hes­an historical, cultural, traditional more women on faculty and ad­has fallen out of popularity in the situation here Hesburgh burgh said. In addition, he said, problem. But of course there are ministration. modern society, It has been said, "The perspective is that "I think women have a much obviously theologians who Hesburgh said he would like argued that the Catholic Church Notre Dame, for 125 years, was more important part in the would disagree with me, includ­to see women on campus take still adheres to this belief. This an all-male society, totally: no liturgy than they ever had in the ing the pope." more initiative in bringing may not be strictly the case, but women professors, no women past. When I grew up you never change about. "I get upset when it has become clear in recent students, no women administra­saw a woman read the Gospel." After it is decided which I see political groups vying for years that there is a need to tors. Today it's a totally different Cultural differences are also a changes are needed, there is the class office, for example, that reassess the role of women in picture and it's all happened factor in the role women play in problem of how this change will don't have any women on them the Church. At a school such as since 1972, which is not a lot of the Church. "You have to under­materialize. at all. No woman has ever run Notre Dame that is so greatly in­time in the almost 150 year his­stand...that this push for wo­Change can come in two ways: for student body president. Wo­fluenced by the Church, the issue tory of this place." men's place in the Church is an as a result ofpeople thinking and men have to participate as fully takes on a greater urgency, as The 14-year presence of wo­American phenomenon, if you making conscious decisions or as they can. But I can't order wo­the question arises of how much men hasn't totally erased Notre include Canada in America. You by women being just plopped men to run for office and I can't the role of women in the Church Dame's reputation as a male uni­see it hardly at all in Europe or into the system, Giarrante said. order women to participate. affects the attitudes toward wo­versity. "Notre Dame in some in Latin America, and certainly Giarrante would like to see "I would invite and welcome men on campus. ways is still very male," said Giar­not in Africa or Asia," Hesburgh change come from within the women to take full part in the 
rante. "There are still some said. existing Church structure, but place. That is the official attitude, 
Although women have not alumni who think it's a male in­thinks it will be more a result of if you will," said Hesburgh. been as visible as men in the stitution. Other universities don't In response to charges that the pressure from the outside. "The Change has been slow in com­Church, they have always been have that problem. We have to Church is becoming more con­major changes have come from ing in the Church and at Notre present and have played an im­give the university a new image," servative in its attitude toward women who have spoken out." Dame, but It is coming. In portant role. But this role is often she said. women under the leadership of she said. working for change, Hesburgh overlooked. "At the beginning Just as the attitude of women Pope John Paul II, Hesburgh said said it is important to take a pos­of Christianity a woman played in the Church reflects the atti­the pope represents a European Hesburgh said that he hopes itive attitude, looking at what the most important role because tudes of the general culture, the mentality that isn't the same as change will be the result of dis­change has been accomplished if It weren't for a woman we situation for women at Notre the mentality in this country. cussion and reflection. Most and continuing to work toward wouldn't have Jesus Christ. . . Dame has to be put in perspec­America is unique in its push for change happens, he said, it. "It gets back to that famous This university is particularly tive. "Notre Dame is part of the greater female representation in "because people have a better saying. 'it's better to light a sensitive to that because it's world in which it lives and you the Church, he said. understanding of what is right candle than curse the darkness,' named after a lady, namely His can't change that. But I think Hesburgh agrees that women and what is wrong. 1 think it's "he said. mother," said Father Theodore Notre Dame can be a wonderful should and will play a greater precisely in a university context Charles agreed, saying. "I have Hesburgh, University president. example of men and women part in the Church in the future. that discussion and thought is always believed that the best way 
working equally toward the same "I can recall spending most of supposed to precede action, and to make an impact is to be the 
At the same time, the attitude goals, engaged in the same en­my life in what might be called I think our proper role is to see best of what you can be and toward women in the Church has deavors, and complementing male societies. . .I've lived in that that discussion and change eventually you will be recognized not reflected this role. "Clearly each other in what they bring to both worlds and I think it's a of thinking takes place. That · for that. ..Ultimately women are the Church is a male-oriented so­bear upon the quality of life on much better world today with doesn't mean that you can't do going to achieve by showing how ciety and has been for many this campus," said Hesburgh. being a mixed society," he said. other things, but my general idea good they are, not by talking years," said Assistant Provost. With respect to the progress is that there is not going to be a about it." Isabel Charles. Charles said, "It is natural that women have made in the change in the Church until the 
Tomorrow: Women's stereotypes.
Hesburgh agreed, saying. this (clerical) attitude would be Church, there is still more to be thinking changes." "The Church has tended in its reflected at Notre Dame. The done. "I would like to see a leadership to be male­clerical culture has been used to recognition of the significant role dominated, partially because for not paying attention to women that women have played and will 2000 years only men have be­as forces in their lives, or at least continue to play in the Church. I come priests and bishops and in their professional lives ...The would like to see a recognition popes. That's just a simple his­Church and the Notre Dame com­and a practice of having women torical fact. The next question of munity reflect the way the world incorporated into the ministry course is will it continue to be is." and into the decision-making of that way, and all I can say is 1 When evaluating the position the Church. I think that women hope not." of women in the Church, one have a very important viewpoint 
must take into account the prog­to bring to decision-making and 
Blame does not rest solely with ress women have made already, ministry in the Church and an the Church. The attitude toward especially in the last few years. important attitude. I think there women reflects the attuitudes of "We have been so couched in this are many very able women who 
the culture surrounding the male and patriarchal society and would be doing more ifthey were 
Church. "Our culture has been the church has just begun to allowed to do so, and the ul­dominantly male and patriarch!, realize that and recognize that," timate in that, ofcourse, is pries­and the Church has adopted that said Giarrante. thood, and personally I don't see attitude," said Sister Jo Giar­"The change has been pro­any problem with women as rante, rector of Pasquerilla West. gressive. I've seen more change priests," said Charles. 
Charles agreed, saying. "No mat­in my lifetime than took place In 
ter where a woman Is there Is not the 400 years before it, much of On the issue of women as the same kind of attitude by a it due, I think, to Vatican Council priests Hesburgh said, "I don't majority of the men that there is II. When there's a problem one think I will see women ordained toward another man." tends to get impatient with it be­as priests, but it wouldn't bother 
The question that follows cause you say it's not changing me if it happened." naturally is how much this atti­fast enough. Against this you While many people agree that tude Is present at Notre Dame, a have to what we're dealing with change is needed, there is dis-Sr. Jo Glrrante The Observer/Matt Honkanen 
Tuesday, January 27, 1987 -page 8 -9 
sension over what kind of Charles emphasized that 
changes are needed. The issue change is a slow process. "It's 
of women in the Church is just an attitudinal change and at­
... 15 . 
one of many that the Church titudinal changes are very diffi­must evaluate. Questions con­cult to achieve. I think it's going cerning the lay ministry and the to take a while, particularly when issue of celibacy, for example, one is in a clerical culture withyears are closely related to the role wo­many men who are not married. 

The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987 -page 10 
NVA calendar

~Sports Briefs 
ND football managers will have an organizational meeting for all potential freshme!l ~anagers _tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the ACC football aud1tonum_. Any mt~rested freshmen are invited to attend. For more mformatlon call 239-6482. -The Observer 
The ND varsity field hockey team will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing field hockey today at 5:30p.m. at the football auditorium. -The Obser­
ver 

The ND water polo club will hold practice tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. All members are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVI applications for assistant commissioner are now available at th~ se~re­tary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Ap_Phcat~ons are due by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 30 and follow-up mterv1~ws will be held the following week. For more mformatlon contact Steve Wenc at 4074. -The Observer 
The ND women's soccer club will have a meeting for anyone interested in playing indoor soccer tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips. If you cannot attend but would like to participate, contact Kerry Haverkamp at 277-8159. -The Observer 
Armon Gilliam scored 23 points and five teammates scored in double figures Monday night as No. 3 Nevada-Las Vegas blew past Fresno State_106-58 to _re~ain undef~ated in the Pacific Coast Athletic Association. -Assoctated Press 
Tonight's men's basketball game between Notre Dame and Dayton begins at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
In the NBA last night, two of the four games w~nt to overtime. Pheonix edged Detroit, 120-118, while Portland downed Denver, 145-141, in the extra period..In other games Milwaukee beat up on the hapless L.A. Clip­pers, 114-94,' and Seattle beat Utah, 108-95. -Associated Press 
The ND judo club will practice tonight at a new time, 7:30 to 9:30p.m. in room 219 Rockne. -The Observer 
A broomball tourney sponsored by SAB will be held Feb.9-15 at Stepan Fields. Sign-ups run through Feb. 
4. from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. at the SAB office. The entry fee is $3 for a team of five persons. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has 
scheduled the deadlines for 
some of its upcoming events. 
In addition to these dead­
lines, students are reminded of 
the Stretchercise program, 
which is already in progress on 
Tuesday and Thursday, begin­
ning at 5:20p.m. 
Other available openings in­clude aerobics, hydrorobics and the Century Club. NVA also rents cross-country ski equip­ment from Tuesday to Sunday, and has a regular schedule of cross-country events on tap for the rest of January and into February. 
In addition, tomorrow is the deadline for the following: 
Co-Ree Volleyball -Wednes­day, Jan. 28. This is an open tournament with six-player teams, three men and three wo­men. 
Downhill Skiing -Friday, Jan. 30. This event is slated for Ski World from 6-11 p.m., and transportation is provided. 
Registration andt>r further information on these activities and others may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the offices in the ACC. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untl13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES WORDPROCESSING 2n·8131 ................................................................ EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009.  FOUND: Bookstore bag of new books from O'Shag. Call Lost & Found office in LaFortune. Found·& DETEX outside of Senior Bar weekend of Jan. 16. If rt could be yours, call John at 1706. FOUND: Sum of money found on South Quad. Call 283·2344.  Students needed to help save lives. Walch T.V. and eam extra money . New donors or former donors who haven't donated plasma in the last 30 days will be paid $11.00 following initial or return donation. Bring this ad to: American Plasma, 515 Lincolnway West, S. Bend. 5 blocks west of Burger King on US 2(Y Uncolnway West. Phone 234-6010. Open Tues., Wed., Fri., and Sat.  NEED UNC TICKETS CALL NANCY 277 ·5626 "URGENT" Need 4 DEPAUL tixs FAST -Call Jackie x2683 MARQUETTE: 2 or 4 GAs needed Call JULIE 3602 or 4144 I NEED ONE GA TO THE NC GAME  THANK YOU ST.JUDE FOR THE MANY FAVORS GRANTED! MECNOISE CONCERT Sat., Jen. 31 Bp.m. $5 ellhe door St~n C.nter apona. by SAB  WOMEN'S VOCATION RETREAT ·Feb. 6·7, 7pm-7pm. To help young adults to discover God's call, with an emphasis on religion life. Contact: Sr. Arlene, 284· 5599, St. Mary's. Happy Birthday ANNIE MURDOCK who celebrates the big 22 today in Chicago. . Love and the Best of Wishes, Mike.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our new toea· tlon: 808 Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week 1 0·530. ph. 233· 2342. Bring In this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or more I All students are Invited to attend an ex­ercise conditioning program to be held In the north dome of the A.C.C. Theses· slons which will be progressive will run from Feb. 2-Mar. 11 on Mon., Tues., Thurs., and Fri. afternoons from 5:00­6:00 p.m. JPW MASS LECTOR AUDITIONS: 3 READERS ARE NEEDED Weds. Jan. 28 from 12 to 1 and Mon. Feb. 2 from 4 to 5 at Sacred Heart Church. Pick up copy of the readings at student activities office In LaFortune. We've got the BALLS and the brooms, so sign up today lor the WINTERFEST '87 BROOMBALL TOURNEY at the SAB offices, 2nd lloor LaFortunelll LOST/FOUND I LOST: Grey knapsack, wtth books, notebooks, end envelopes to be mailed -from South Dining Hall, 1119. To anyone who has found this or to the thief that took ~: please return to the Lost & Found andtJr call Eric at 272-9123. Especially needed are the contents in lhe manilla  LOST TAN WALLET. PLEASE FIND. REWARD IF RETURNED. CALL 2017 LOST: gold chain with pearl charm call Elise at x2769 FOUND ·Brown thick down jacket, on the Weds Senior Chicago trip bus that came back to the Main Circle. Possibly belongs to "Chip." Call Carie at 2855. I lost my light blue key chain wt six keys. it has two £103 keys, and a £224 key. The key chain is the top half of a number one (£1). If you have found it, please call Danny at x1719. Rewardll Help me get my wallet, chain, and ring back! incredible sentimental value. No questions asked. Please help. Call 1986 or 1987 with Info. Rewardll LOST: at Bridget's sometime near the end of December--a BLACK MEN'S COAT. Keep the coat but PLEASE return theROOM KEYS in the pocket. 356 Alumni. LOST: BLUE LL BEAN NAPSACK AT SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE, I NEED MY GLASSES AND MY NOTES. IF FOUND, CALL 4659 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. LOST: G.E. WALKMAN WRADIO ON EARS, JANUARY 22 AT SAGA. PLEASE HELP CALL 284·5271 FOR RENT  Wanted students with medical back· ground who are available to work 9-5 shift on Tues., Wed., Fri., or Sat. Starting pay 4.25 per hour. If interested bring resume to American Plasma, 515 Lin· colnway West, South Bend. 234·601 0. WANTED:SOMEONE NAMED TASHA TO PROVIDE COMPANIONSHIP. IN· QUIRE AT 2022 NEED RIDE EAST; Toledo,Ciev,Pitt,Ohio Ex7, this wknd(1· 30) andt>r next wknd(2·6). Share$$. call BRAD·4076! RIDERS wanted to ST. LOUIS·-THIS WEEKENDII(Jan.30-Feb.1)Call ROB at 1151 NOWII WANTED: TUTORS FOR 15 SOUTH BEND NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS AND SCHOOLS.!! Interested In spend· lng just 3 houre per week helping the children of South Bend, a«end tonight's organlzlltional meeting at 7 PM In the CSC multl-purpou room. Join Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram tonlghtl FOR SALE Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742·1142, Ext. 7316.  CALL CALL ROB x 1756 ................:............................................... Need 2 Duke student tix; willing to trade 2 Keenan Revue tix or $$$ Call Ray or John 2990 I need 1 stud. tick. to the North Carolina game this Sunday! Big bucks guaranteedll Tom £1251 NEED 1 NORTH CAROLINA STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET. CALL MIKE AT 2180 I need 2 NC GA's-John 1722 Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Maria at 2687. HELP! I NEED TICKETS TO THE NDMU GAME ... PLEASE CALL MARGIE 284· 5230 HELPII NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE N. CAROLINA B-BALL GAME PRICE IS NO OBJECTIII CALL STACEY 3497 FRIEND GOT MARRIEDII WILL TRADE 2 SAT. REVUE TIX FOR 2 THURS OR FRI CALL LEE 272·6019 I NEED 1 STU OR GA FOR N.C. X 3831. NEED 2 NORTH CAROLINA STUD. TIX CALL JAY AT 1679 ............................................. I NEED 2 NC TIX PLEASE CALL 284· 4251 ................................................................ PERSONALS  Seniors -1 need your extra graduation ticketsii Do you need extra cash for spring break? Give me a call and a deal can be worl<ed outll'm desperate Ill Tom 283-1251 ANYONE TAPE THE LAST FEW MINUTES OF THE HISTORICAL USCND GAME ON 1112&86?? WE NEED IT! PLEASE CALL MICHELLE 284·5096 SENIORS111 SENIORSIII SENIORS!il DO YOU WANT TO BE A STAR IN THE SENIOR CLASS VIDEO??? GET A GROUP OF FRIENDS TOGETHER AND LIP SYNC A SONG. CALL MICHELLE AT 284-5096 FOR MORE INFOI Athletic, well groomed, morally secured male; Looking for sincere friendship, Early 20's. Black hair, brown eyes, 165 ibs. 5'6" and lonely. I hope to hear from you. All responses are welcomed and answered. Write to: LeMOINE Arrington, 81B0981, Box-149, Attica, NY 14011 MAUREEN ERNY'S BIRTHDAY IS ONLY 3 DAYS AWAY, ARE EXCITED YET MO? THE BIG 22 IS FINALLY HERE! BALLROOM DANCE CLUB-Classes will resume Tuesday 1127 at 6:30p.m. in Stepan Center. All are invited to attend. Classes for beginning and intermediate levels will be offered.  TIMOTHY peace on your birthday Love kb Help111 Need to switch our Thursday Keenan Revue tix to Friday! Please call Kathy, 2824 or Scoop, 3637 HEY PASTE111111111111 HAPPY TWENTY­TWO, YOU OLD MAN ·I figured this would be an appropriate place to tell you: hope to be at many more to help you celebrate. Love you lots, Hub P.S. See you at the Commons ..... Bet you won't last past 1 a.m. Ride offerd to Ciev 11.30·211. 255-1508 Greg T -We have a certain piece of jungle apparel of yours. We are holding it for ransom and are willing to negotiate. We'll give you 48 hrs until it'll get passed on to certain undesirable people.MJMG MR. HAPPE admits thai he is a New York Giants fan. Giants are £1 INTERESTED IN DISMAS HOUSE? WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT IS? Come and meet this year's DISMAS house students at a lunch at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday, Jan. 29 11:30·1:30 COME JOIN USI11111111111111 Neiati&'Cifiiiooo-s:r·uov.tiel'P.P'iiO: GRAM Organizational Meeting, Tonight at 7 PM.  
- envelopes end In lhe notebooks. LOST: Small Gold Chain. Last seen at the Rock on Tuesday night(v.!O) Please call Kevin ·3540 LO'Sr~···~;;;pi~t~ cr~~~tit~;;···~~~d·,~ worl< of a HUMMEL pattern LITTLE GABRIEL ·--CALL Brother John ·6284  ROOMMATE WANTED to share two bdrm. apt., Turtle Cr. 20<»no. eelec., call Don, 272·3n9 FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FALL SEMESTER 6838889  '85 VW Cabriolet • Excellent Condition • 21 ,000 Miles • Still Under Warranty • Ken­wood Stereo • M: • Priced Below Book • Call 2n·4361 SNOW TIRES: two, brand-new, Fire· stone, mounted, 7.35·15, replaces 6.50· 15 (fits VW bug, etc.). call Matt at 4415  Part-time mktg. pos. on campus. Polen· tial to make $6tlr. Call Cindy at 1-800­592·2121. .......................................................... OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Are you in a campus band? Would you like some FREE publicity? Contact Mary at either 239-5313 or 272-3833 before Friday. TOASTMASTERS TOASTMASTERS Toastm..tere will meet Wed Jan 28 at  CSC MuHi-purpose Room. Meeting wtll last only 20 minutes. All sign-ups are ex· peeled to attend. Summer Service applications deadline is February 2. Students work In social ser­vice for 8 weeks in return for a $1200.00 tuition scholarship. For more information  
LOST CLASS RING FAP 87 Call Fred 288-2821 REWARD LOST: GOLD CHAIN Wed. Jan. 21 be·  WANTED SPRING BREAK JAMAICA Project Manager needed FREE vacation plus $$$ 1-80Q-237-2061  '81 FORD CROWN VICTORIA, 4-DR, V­8, LOADED. 232·9533 EVENINGS ONLY. BUY THIS CAR, I'LL TELL YOU HOW TO MAKE MONEY. Skilom XCL 181 waxless cross-country skis, Skilom poles (140-156") and Adidas boot&'bindings. All in excellent condition  SAVE $$$11 Buy your class books at PANDORA'S BOOKS. At our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just of off N.D. Ave. OPEN 7 days a week, 1 0·530 ph. 233· 2342. Bring in this ad and receive $5 off every order of $50 or morel  7pm In the UHie Th..tra In LaFortune. NEW MEMBERS ARE INVITED TO AT· TEND! BRIAN DOUGLAS O'FALLON I THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF IN­GREDIENTS. THERE'S FLOUR, SUGAR, YOU  contact the Center for Social Concerns..239· 7867. J-A We've found the fourth floor in time to wish you a happy 22nd birthday.Enjoy your day.G&S If it's up to me, next Thanksgiving is going  
tween PW & O'Shag 9:00-10:00 Please  $125. Contact Susan Reed, 239-7516.  COULD EVEN THROW IN ANOTHER  to be great. But are you sure you wouldn't  
be kind end contact me II you are the  EGG.  THEN  THERE'S  VANILLA,  THE  nave ramer seen the Broncos win?  
one who found ~ x-2738 or bring It by 344 PW. Reward is offered. ................................................................ LOST at NO Apt party, one navy CB down jacket with light blue strips. Call Marl< at 288·9548 or drop at 728 PE HAVE YOU FOUND MY KEYS? I  Summer job interviews-Average earn~ ings $3,400. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales, and public relations selling yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame campus telephone direc­tories. Opportunity to travel nationwide. Complete training program In North  TICKETS Need Tickets Deaparetely to both tha North Carolina and Duke basketball games. Either student or GA'a. Call Eric at 272·9123.  WANTED: ONE KNOWLEDGE HAM· MER. Willing to pay BIG BUCKS. Call Max at 1384. Need 1 GA for Marquette game. Call Maria at 2687.  MOST POTENT OF INGREDIENTS. in my famiy I was taught to RESPECT vanil· Ia. BUT COLLEEN DOES NOT RESPECT VANILLA. SHE TREATS IT LIKE ANY OTHER DRY GOOD. I said add flour. But no, she said, "Let'• add mora van111a." WE KNOW OTHERWISE YOU WOULD HAVE MADE  Happy Birthday, Laura Gidley II Hope you have a great time celebrating-love the 6-A section. LOST: at Bridget's sometime near the end of December--a BLACK MEN'S  
HAVEN'T! PLESE  CALL ME  IF YOU  Carolina.  (Expanses paid) Looking for  SCOTT C. AND TIM G.  TERRIFIC COOKIES BRIAN/  COAT. Keep the coat but PLEASE return  
HAVEl ITS A BRASS KEY CHAIN THAT LOOKS LIKE A GOLD INGOT. MY NAME IS KYLE. MY NUMBER IS 1223. CALL ME ANYTIMEI(IF YOU FOUND  enthusiastic, goal-oriented students for challenging, well·paying summer job. Sign up for interviews with University Directories at Career & Placement Ser­ HELP II Mom and Dad are coming! I DESPERATELY need 2 Carolina GA's Will pay BIG$$ Call Keratin 4036  Thanks for the great Super Bowl party Sun. A super time was had by all as usual. We luv ya both lots. Love, the lchthusians etc.  ............................................................. Happy Birthday, Laura Gidleyll Hope you have a great time celebrating-love the  theROOM KEYS in the pocket. 356 Alumni. I NEED 2 NC TIX PLEASE CALL 284·  
MY KEYS) THANKS MUCHAS.  vices by Jen. 30.  6-A section.  4251  

The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 11 

Appicotions CLUB FUNDING 
FOR SECOND SEMESTER ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 3RD FLOOR, LaFortune. Deadline is Friday, January 30 
' 
Injuries disarm men's tennis team 
By GREG ANDRES 1987 season the Irish fell 7-2 to Sports Writer 
the Wildcats. Injuries plagued the Irish, weakening their at­
The Notre Dame men's ten­tack considerably. nis team travelled to Evanston, The first, third and fifth Illinois for a showdown with singles players were absent for Big Ten rival Northwestern the Irish and subsequently vic­with a gun only half loaded. The tory slipped away. result, despite a few near Sophomores Brain Kalbas misses, was no bullseye. and Tony Kahill and junior 
In their opening match of the Paul Daggs were unavailable 
We'llgive youthe scholarship 
money tobecome 
a nurse and the 
leadershipskillsto be abetter 
one. 
Start your career with advantages other nursing students won't have. 
Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps is a great way to learn the self-confidence and leadership skills that are important to any career, and indispensable in nursmg. 
You deal with real people and real problems. And learn to manage, inspire and lead. Even before you graduate. 
When you do graduate, you'll have a college degree in nursing and an officer's commission in the Army Nurse Corps. With the responsibility most other graduates will have to wait years for. 
For more information about Army ROTC and the qualifications for Army ROTC Nursing Scholarships, talk to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
en 
~ 
0 ~ 
u 
(J 
z 
z 
~ 
~ 
' 
Cf) 
~ 
uJ 
u 
• I 
~ 
0 ~ 
~ 
uJ 
rJ) 
cz 
~ 
< 

The Observer/ Greg Kohs Irish hockey captain Mike McNiell takes a seat on the boards during a break in the action. Details of the team's weekend split with Kent State appear on page 16. 
Parcells ponders return trip 
Associated Press euphoric after the 39-20 victory 
over Denver Sunday that 
PASADENA, Calif. -Bill brought the team its first NFL Parcells outlined a simple for­title in 30 years and extended mula Monday for breaking the to seven the number of seasons 
cycle of new Super Bowl win­without a repeat Super Bowl ners each year: Get more good winner. players and don't worry about historical trends. "Next year it's a new game.
"I don't think history means If we had a game today, yes­one thing in football," said the terday wouldn't mean a thing," New York Giants coach, still Parcells said. 
Epee 

continued/rom page 16 
who knocked off a top epee squad from Illinois the week before. DeCicco credits assis­tant coach and former Irish fencer Rich Daly for part of their improvement and hopes that the epeeists can continue to improve. 
"I'd love nothing better than 
to have them prove me wrong,'' 
DeCicco said after labeling the 
epee squad as the third best 
Irish squad. 

If there was a disappoint­ment for the Irish it came at the hands of the foil squad who dropped eight bouts after going 
unbeaten a week earlier. Part 
of the problem was a tough per­
formance given by Wisconsin 
foilist Alex Renk, who went 2-1 
against the Irish. 
The only foilist to knock off 

Renk was junior Yehuda 
Kovacs. Kovacs went unbeaten 
on the weekend (7-0) to up his 
season mark to 9-0. Senior 
Charles Higgs-Coulthard 
moved to an 8-1 season mark 
with a 6-1 showing. After going 
3-0 against Stanford, sopho­
more Derek Holeman went 3-2 
against Minnesota, Lawrence, 
and Wisconsin. ' 
Freshman Joel Clark remained unbeaten with a 5-0 showing ( 6-0 on the year) , while classmate Colin Gumbs and seniors Brian Mitalo and Alex Fuster combined for a 7-4 
NEW YORK -CBS's telecast of the Super Bowl drew an average rating of 47.8 in 13 major markets across the country. 
Sunday's game between the New York Giants and Denver Broncos received its highest rating, 58.6, in Washington, 
D.C. Denver had the second highest rating at 55.7, followed by New York at 53.4. 
mark. 
According to DeCicco, the fencers are "on track" for suc­cess. "We have a good team," DeCicco said. "We're starting to get the balance that we need 
to  be  competitive  in  a  dual  
meet season.  
"Wisconsin  is  better  than  

Stanford, and Wisconsin is the only team that is going to give Illinois a run for their money. They've got one or two decent epee men, and they've got one or two guys to pick from in the sabre. 
"They (Wisconsin) is the kind of team that is favored in any type of tournament where you have less than all three. If you have to fence nine-against­nine, we'll kill them." 
While the men try to defend their national championship, the women foilists continued on a path to try to capture their own national title. 
On Saturday, the women knocked off Minnesota (14-2), Lawrence (15-1) and Wisconsin (12-4) to remain unbeaten at 4-0 on the year. 
Junior Molly Sullivan (9-1) and sophomore Janice Hynes (7-1) each went 5-1 for the day. Seniors Vittoria Quaroni and Cindy Weeks raised their records to 6-2 by posting 5-1 marks. Freshman Anne Bar­reda went 8-1 to lead the Irish with a 10-1 season record, and sophomore Kristin Kralicek went 7-1 to move to 9-1. 
"They're very good," DeCicco said. "The only disap­pointment, if you can call it a disappointment, is that not one of our foilists was able to beat Isabel Hamori." 
Fencing for the Badgers, Hamori remained unbeaten on the year with a 4-0 mark against the Irish. 
"We have to fence a bit shar­per than we have," DeCicco said. "Our women's team, at their best, could be awesome." 
Happy Chinese New Year (Jan. 29) All you can eat buffet $7.95 

Includes: soup, appetizers 8 entrees and dessert Jan. 25 (Sun.) thru Jan. 29 (Thurs.) 
5:00p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Next to Rondoll.s Inn 272·7376 
South 88nd,130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 

The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 12 
ND Alumni Association to sponsor Alumni Board career discussion 

By JIM WINKLER News Staff 
In an effort to help students cope with uncertainty about "life after Notre Dame," the Alumni Association announces the annual Alumni Board win­ter meeting with students. This year's event will be held Wed­nesday night from 7-9 p.m. at Theodore's. 
According to Maria Miceli, '83, assistant director of alumni clubs, the purpose of the pro­gram is twofold. "We want to give students a chance to talk to Notre Dame professionals about their career fields of in­terest and life after Notre Dame, and also to give students a chance to learn about the op­eration of the National Alumni Board." 


The event is sponsored by the Alumni Association and SARG, the Student Alumni Relations Group, she added. -mSARG, led by students Karen Jones and Ed Leonard, acts as a liaison between alumni and the students on campus. Working with the alumni asso­ciation, SARG provides infor­mation to students about alumni club activities on campus and at home, Miceli said. 
Each year, the National Board of Alumni meets at this time and talks with students about the workings of the Alumni Association and career 
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE 
Is currently accepting applications for the position of 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 
within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. 
In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. 
Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law degree program at a leading 
university. completing professiona Many return to Merrill Lynch their advanced degrees to build l careers in investment banking.  after their  
If you  Becoming a Candidate: are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to:  
Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago, IL 60606  
Please respond before February 15, 1987.  

Neighborhood Stud! HeiJJ Program 
announces an organizational meeting for all new tutors and interested students. 
CSC Multi-purpose Room Tuesday,Jan.27,1987 
7:00 (meeting will last only 20 minutes) 
Those who recently signed up are expected to attend. 
Encouraging the growth ofthe children ofSouth Bend. 

possibilities. The twenty­member board, which always contains at least three alumni who have graduated within the past five years, hopes to en­lighten students about the world they will face as Notre Dame graduates. 
At Wednesday's gathering at Theodore's, the National Board will meet informally to discuss different career areas, includ­ing law, business, computers, accounting, teaching, engi­neering and architecture. 
Each alumnus will offer in­sights into how he or she used the Notre Dame degree to get where they are now. Students will have the opportunity to talk one-on-one with alumni about any of these areas. 
Program 
continuedfrom page 1 

L;narJes said, "Tantur, as well as Jerusalem, is a safe place with security at all times. There has never been a prob­lem at Tantur." 
The underlying purpose of the new program, as well as any foreign study program, is "to develop a cultural under­standing of other peoples so that this under-standing can lead to peace," Charles said. 
The entire cost per student of the program is $2750, a sum which covers round-trip fare from New York to Tel Aviv, room and board in Jerusalem, field trips, and fees and tuition, according to Charles. 
''All undergraduate students are eligible," said Charles, "but applications must be turned in by March 1, 1987." Applications may be obtained from Rm. 420 in the Adminis­tration Building, she said. 
In showing her high expecta­tions for the consortium-based program, Charles summarily added, "I'm very optimistic about the first ever Notre Dame participation in a con­sortium for the purpose of foreign study, and I hope Notre Dame students take advantage of the special privilege of meeting other students from four campuses and fulfilling their interests in Arab and Is­lamic Studies." 
The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 13 
Gelfman experiments with tandems at Minnesota Doubles Invitational 

By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team departed for the Minnesota Doubles Invita­tional last Thursday with four new doubles teams and returned with what they needed most -experience. 
Head Coach Michele Gelfman is experimenting with the doubles pairings, looking for the right combinations for the spring season which gets underway in three weeks. 
The three day tournament featured the top four doubles teams from Minnesota, Ohio State, Nebraska, Iowa and Drake. The teams were matched according to their rank for the first two days of play and by tournament records for the third day. 
"We went up there to try out new combinations," said Gelfman. "We're going up there to start out the season by playing in a tournament that takes the pressure off the team situation.'' 
Junior co-captain Michelle Dasso and freshman Alice Loh­rer made an impressive first showing at the number-one doubles position. Throughout the tournament they swept five of seven matches, finishing second to Minnesota in the number-one doubles bracket. 
In their opening match, Dasso and Lohrer defeated Ohio State's Michelle DeCosmo and Yvonne Lohrer, 6-0,4-6,7-6 (8-6 tiebreaker). Interestingly, Alice Lohrer found herself playing against her older sister for the very first time. 
"Michelle and Alice played exceptionally well," said Gelfman. "They were aggres­sive and they pulled out some really tight matches." 
The remaining doubles teams gained valuable playing time. Experience is essential, especially when the number­two and four teams are a tan­dums of freshman. 
Stephanie Tolstedt and Resa Kelly joined forces at the number-two spot. Their weekend was highlighted with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Iowa's Pennie Wohlford and Susan Evans. 
Playing at the number-three position were sophomores Natalie Illig and Julie Sullivan, while Jackie Uhll and Maura Weidner, both freshman, com­prised the number-four doubles team. 
Coach reprimanded for criticising officials 
Associated Press 
TOLEDO, Ohio -The Mid­American Conference issued a public reprimand Monday to Vernon Payne, the head men's basketball coach at Western Michigan University for public criticism of game officials. 
Payne, a former Indiana Uni­versity star, was reprimanded for criticism leveled at the con­clusion of Western's 62-60 vic­tory at Ball State Jan. 14. 
MAC commissioner Jim Les­sig stated that the comments and action taken bY Payne were in violation of the confer­ence code on sportsmanship and the rule prohibiting public criticism of game officials. 
"I realize the pressures and frustration involved in coach-

The Govenor's Fellowship Program 
Seeks top 1986/87 graduates for management training program in state government. 
Applications Available: Govenor's Fellowship Room 206 State House Indianapolis, IN 46204 

Notre Dame­Sf. Mary's Ballroom Dance Club 
will begin classes Tuesday, Jon. 27 from 6:30-7:30 pm in the Stepan Center and open to all. 
Intermediate Classes will include the Rumba, Advanced Swing, Tango, and advanced Foxtrot Beginning Classes will offer the Woltz, Swing, Foxtrot, and Cho Cho The club sill also be sponsoring o Valentines Donee on February 11th at the St. ~11ory' s Clubhouse. So Come out Tuesdoy night the 27th 
and see what this club is all about. 
any questions call 283·1111 
ing the sport of basketball," Lessig said in a statement, "but we must enforce the con­ference rules if they are to have any real meaning. I have a great deal of respect for Vern Payne and I am confident that this is an isolated incident that will not be repeated." 
North Carolina No. 1 
ACC showdown set for Sunday 
Associated Press an early season loss at UCLA, returned to the top of The As­sociated Press' college basket­
Despite winning 15 games in ball poll Monday, replacing a row, many in dominating fas­Iowa, which held the position hion, North Carolina Coach for one week. Dean Smith still isn't con­North Carolina will bring its vinced his top-ranked team No. 1 ranking to South Bend could beat any other team in this Sunday when it faces Notre the nation. Dame. 
The Tar Heels, now 17-1 after "People shoot at you more 
ND AVE APTS. arly Bird Specia 
Now renting for Fall 2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Sign up before break and receive a 10% discount 
Call 234-6647 
by Pinkerton Security Agency 
The Observer is accepting applications for the following position: 
Production Manager 
Interested applicants should submit resume and personal statment to Joe Murphy. Application Deadline is Wed. Jan 28 at 5 PM 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s 
3rdRoor Lafortune student Center 
when you're ranked No.1, but because of the parity, that doesn't mean you're really any better than the team ranked 18th," Smith said. 
North Carolina received 59 first-place votes and 1,236 points from the nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters to easily outdis­tance the Hawkeyes, who suf­fered their first loss Saturday to snap a school-record 18­game winning streak. 
North Carolina, ranked second last week, was No. 1 in the preseason poll and the Tar Heels held on for the first week of the regular season. But they fell from the top spot when they lost 89-84 at UCLA on the way home from two games in Hawaii. Their two games last week were Atlantic Coast Con­ference blowouts, 79-53 over Wake Forest and 92-55 over Georgia Tech. 
Iowa received two first-place votes and 1,141 points after a week of drastic up and downs. 
The Hawkeyes beat then-No. 5 Purdue on the road, 70-67, and followed that with another Big Ten Conference victory, 101-88 over Indiana, the first time a Hoosier team coached by Bob Knight allowed more than 100 points. They couldn't hold the homecourt momentum, however, as Ohio State beat the Hawkeyes, 80-76, at Iowa City. 
Nevada-Las Vegas, 18-1, received the remaining first­place vote and 1,127 points to take third. The Runnin' Rebels, who were fourth last week, won all three of their Pacific Coast Atletic Association games last week. 
Two Big Ten teams, Indiana and Purdue, tied for fourth with 968 points. 
.-------~----------------------------------------~-----------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 14 
Men's volleyball vies for club supremacy 
After a big win in its opening match of the season, the Men's Volleyball Club is looking forward to a busy week that will feature early contests with some of Notre Dame's major opponents. 
The Irish will take its 1-0 record to Grand Valley 
today, then face Miami of Ohio at the ACC pit on 
Friday at 7:30p.m. 

"If Miami of Ohio does well this year, they'll go varsity," said Irish club president John Sullivan. "There's about 45 teams in the Midwest, and only three are varsity. They're one of the top club teams." 
During the weekend, Notre Dame will play in a tournament at the University of Michigan which includes the 16 top teams in the Midwest. The tourn­ament will give the Irish their first look at Michigan, Bowling Green, and Wisconsin, teams that usually battle Notre Dame and Miami (Ohio) for club vol­leyball supremacy in the Midwest. 
"It's like our pre-season NIT tournament," said Sullivan, "but every match we play there does count on our league record. If we can win that, our season's going to look really good." 
In Notre Dame's opening match last Wednesday at the ACC Pit, the Irish cruised past the University of Toledo, 15-2, 15-4, 15-9. 
"We pretty much overpowered them in all parts of the game," said Sullivan. "Both our setters, Mike Shimota and Marc Burdell, did really well, and also Mark Trautmann played great at middle hitter." 
The win represented a big improvement in Notre Dame's play since a Thanksgiving tournament in Windsor, Canada, where the Irish lost two of three matches. 
"Everything is starting to come together now that we have a season to look forward to. In the first semester there wasn't anything to look forward to because there weren't any regular season matches," said Sullivan. "We also doubled our practices on the first week of the semester." 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 
In last weekend's Governor's Cup tournament at Crystal Mountain, a sister combination led the wo­men's Ski Team to a first place finish, while the men's team settled for second place. 
In one race, Kathy Skendzel placed third, while her sister, Mary Beth, finished fifth. Mary Beth got her revenge in another race as she beat her sister to take second. Maureen Connaughton from Saint Mary's placed fifth in another race. Each race in the women's bracket included about 50 people. 
Sophomore transfer student Pat Eilers led the way for the men's team, placing fifth, and C.B. Thomas also placed among the top ten. Jeff Parker and Eric Kowalski also contributed for the Irish. 
"We knew we had a good team," said men's co­captain Joe McBride. "The University of Michigan has a really exceptional team. They beat us out, but the girls just beat out Michigan's girls team." 
The Ski Teams go right back to Crystal Mountain this weekend for a two-day tournament featuring several schools from Michigan. 
"We'll ski against a lot of the same schools we went against last weekend," said McBride. "It will give us a chance to get the University of Michigan back." 
Snow prevented the Women's Track Club from competing in a meet that would have included the defending national champions (Texas) last weekend, so the Irish instead had an intrasquad meet in preparation for a competition that will in­clude the defending Canadian champions Western 
Ontario. 

Notre Dame will compete in the Can-Am Games this weekend at Windsor, Canada. Several Big Ten and Mid-American Conference schools, and many Canadian teams will also be participating in this meet. 
"Every meet we have both indoors and outdoors is a big meet." said Head Coach Dan Ryan. "It's a Division I schedule both to keep the cross country runners at a varsity level and also because their goal as a club is to achieve Division l status. They are competitive at a Division l level." 
Ryan said times were fairly slow at the in­trasquad meet because of the nature of the event. 
"The times are relatively slow because there's not that aggressiveness in an intrasquad meet that you have when you're competing against some of the better schools in the country," said Ryan. 
Wrestlers fall to Nebraska; Geneser returns victorious 
"I saw some good things out there today," said Head Coach Fran McCann. "There were a lot of positive aspects in the match, so I'm happy regard­less of the score." 
Winners for the Irish were Andy Radenbaugh at 118 pounds, Pat Boyd at 142 
tions as well as rebounding sit­uations," said Phelps. 
"I think our foul shooting has improved," continued Phelps. "(We have) just a few more things we have to do and this a good time to do it." 
While Dayton cer­tainly is no team to overlook, the Notre Dame coaching staff has found themselves planning 
By CHRIS KILEY Sports Writer 
Faced with the task of over­coming a twelve point deficit due to forfeitures, the Notre Dame wrestling team was un­able to do so and bowed out to Neraska 36-12 on Saturday. 
Flyers 
continued/rom page 16 
Freshman forward Anthony Corbitt (9.3 ppg., 4.7 rebounds) and senior center Ed Young 
(8.3 ppg., 4.5 rebounds) will shore up the baseline. The 6-7 Young has scored over 1,000 career points and will be matched up against Gary Voce, who had a fine performance against UCLA with 13 rebounds. 
Freshman Noland Robinson 
(6.6 ppg., .871 free-throw per­cent) and sophomore Bill Crotty (4.5 ppg., .781 free-throw percent) share time at the other guard position. Fresh­man center Troy McCraken, 6­9, will come off the bench for front-court relief. 
Despite losing veterans Tim Kempton, Jim Dolan, and Ken Barlow from the front line, Notre Dame has attained a 7.3 rebounds per game advantage over opponents. "We do a pretty good job of getting these kids to understand some con­cepts about defensive situa-
The Observer is accepting ap­plications for the following paid position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 
Interested Sophomore and Junior Accounting Majors should submit a personal statement to Alex VonderHaar by 5 PM on Friday, Jan. 30. 
3rd Floor Lafortune Student Center 

pounds, and Chris Geneser at 167 pounds. 
Geneser, who had been sidelined for several matches because of a knee infection, made a victorious return to the mat with a 9-5 decision and im­proved his record to 19-2. 
tor tour tough games in succes­sion. 
"I've watched so much film that I've got (Dayton's) Dan Christie running the break with (North Carolina's) Jeff Lebo," said Phelps before the UCLA game, "and (Marquette's) David Boone doing a heck of a job up front for UCLA." 

McCann was also impressed with Dave Carlin's perfor­mance. 
"Dave was beating the guy who won the tournament in Cal­ifornia that Dave got fourth in,'' said McCann. "Unfor­tunately, he got caught in a bad move." 
Carlin was pinned after leading the match 8-6. Nebraska did nothing to help the Notre Dame's injury prob­
lems. Tom Ryan suffered a bruised ribcage late in the second period and was forced to default early in the third per­iod. 
The 1-4 Irish will continue to seek their second victory on Wednesday as they travel to West Lafayette to take on the Purdue Boilermakers. Then on Sunday, they wil1 bost the Na­tional Catholic Intercollegiate wrestling tournament. 
COUNSELINE 
Volunteers WantedII! **** ********* 
We're in operation again 
but a bit short-handed for now. We still have a few 2 hour shifts to fill. So, if... 
-You want to help prov4de a valuable community service to ND/SMC 
• You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work In a nice study envlronmnet (the number and manner of handling calls Is rarely demanding) -You could use some1hlng extra to 
look. nice on your resume or application to grad school (listening, psych majors?) 
...then ask for David at the University 
Counseling Center or just leave a 
message. 239-7336. 

STUDY IN· EUROPE 
The Unlvertllty ,of Louvaln (est. 1425). Leuven, Belgulm offers 
Complete program~~~ea In Philosophy for the 
~· Of B.A., M.A., and Ph.D plus 
a junior yur abroad programme @I
All courses are In English Tuition Is 14.500 Belgium Franks ( :t $250) Write to: leorelary Sftglleh ProQrammee Kardlnaal Merclerpleln 2, B-3000 LAuvw\, Belgium 
K.U. Leuven 

']I['4(Jt~ttll~------------------------------------------------------Tu.e.sd•a•y•,J•a•nu.a.ry._27~,-19.87·--p.a-ge.1
..5 Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


Beer Nuts 
1he L,"fe.. 
of

•n4\t't 
MA70R­
PARTJ 
Campus 
2:00p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Inflation and Foreign Adjust­ments: A Reinterpretation of Brazilian In­flation in Recent Years," by Antonia Kan­dir, ND., 131 Decio 
3:30 
-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses Overview and Tour, 115 Computing Cen­ter; and, MacWrite, 108 Computing Cen­ter, limit 12, to register, call Betty 239-5604 

3:30 
p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Growth Kinetics, Plasmid Stability, and Foreign Gene Ex­pression in Saccharomyces Cervisiae," by Steven J. Coppella, University of Dela­ware, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 


4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar "Regressive Evolution of Eyes of Fishes in Large Tropical Rivers," by Dr. Don Stewart, Univ. of Wise, 283 Biological Sciences Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series "Easy Rider," 1969, color, 95 minutes, Dennis Hopper, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Basketball NOM vs. Dayton, ACC 


Mark Williams 
J:" PH-PEOPE TO Til£ HE/IfAINIJ£~ OF TilE 
'REST ur• TOPAY AND PAY 15 TJ.IEN PEVOTEP /'1AKE AN EFFORT TO VAR/0/J'; ART-RELATEP 
'RSUITS­
9:00 p,m. -1:00 a.m.: Charity concert by "Youth in Asia" and "In My Shrubbery,'" sponsored by the Overseas Development Network, admission is $2.00, Theodore's, La Fortune 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Roast Round Top of Beef au Jus Sweet & Sour Chicken Broccoli & Cheese Casserole Grilled Ham & Swiss Cheese Sand­wich 
Saint Mary's 
Italian Lasagna Cheese Enchiladas Baked Ham Deli Bar 

Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
• Free Pregnancy Tntt 
• Free Confidential, Individual &Couple Counseling 
~~ 

• Free Refenal To Suppon Agencies 
• Confidential cant 
• 
Medical Referral Service 

• 
Post Abonlon Counseling 


234·0363 
417 N. ST. LOUIS BLVD. 
•
*24 HOURHELPI..IP 
One ... From The Notre o.m. Campua 

Maybe it's not me, y'know? ... Maybe it's the rest of the herd that's gone insane." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 King of lsr.  
5 Fasteners  
10 Pandora's box  
contents  
14 Parlor piece  
15-Haute  
16 Crotchety  
old man  
17 Speaker  
18 With authority  
20 Quite old  
22 Gazing fixedly  
23 Contraction  
24 Musical pipe  
25 Money player  
27 Central part  
29 Hatred  
34 Was in charge  
35 Upright  
37 Rich cake  
38 Lat. abbr.  
40 Decorous  
42 Oolong and  
souchong  
43  -with (took  
the part of)  
45 N.Y. island 47 Box-office  "1987 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 1/27/87All Rights Reserved  
letters  
48 Oklahoman  8 Kind of  
50-majesty  chalcedony  
51 Dancer  9 Hunting dog  
Chari sse  10 Bakery  
52 Contends  specialist  
54 Swiss river  11 lt. town  
56 Ways  12 Forsaken  
60 Nuts  13 Dateless  
63 Brokers do  party-goer  
65 Of a verse  19 Attacked  
form  21 End for defer  
66 Refuges  or refer  
67 Musically slow  24 Remembers  
68-Lisa  25 Iron  
69 Flow slowly  26 Proportion  
70 Furnish funds  28 Plexus  
71 River to the  30 Negative  
North Sea  31 Increases in  
loudness  1/27/87  
DOWN  32 Eared seal  46 Line of  57 Fr. department  
1 Charles' dog  33 Fix a lawn  junction  58 Small child  
2 Bull weapon  36 Tessera  49 Enigma  59 Pin and staple  
3 Ardent fan  39 Author  53 City on the  fastener  
4 Foundation  Deighton  Ruhr  60 Choir voice  
5 Loud speakers  41 Reject  55 Spacious  61 Sup  
6 Following  44 Breed of  56 Graduate  62 Cicatrix  
7 Bow  cattle  degrees  64 Terminate  

el\tS cett &{>reS col'\i Hang out in LaFortune _much? sA ~ o\Se Do you have a pierced ear(right or left?) ~~ Got a new wave doo?C1lo.. 4'f_; Answer any ofthese questions and we\le got ~~ music for you. who: Marginal Man (Wash. D.C.) Saturday, January 31 Precious Wax Drippings (Chicago) 8pm N.D.'s own: Youth in Asia $5 Damaged Retina Stepan Center  
 Tommy 7, 9, 11 pm EG Auditorium Wed, Thurs $1.00 The Gods 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm Must EG Auditorium Be Crazy Fri, sat $1.50  


Tuesday, January 27, 1987-page 16
SRorts 
Fencing teams use balance to extend streaks 
The Observer/ Greg Kohs goals in both games made things tough on his team. 
By MIKE CHMIEL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams contin­ued their winning ways over the weekend in Wisconsin as each notched wins to remain unbeaten. 
"The men and women fenced well," Irish head coach Mike DeCicco said. "They fenced well enough to beat a tough Wisconsin team, and their mo­mentum carried them through the Minnesotas and the Chicagos that were also on our schedule." 
ND cagers face Dayton prepared to 'explode' 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI Sports Writer 
The fun has just begun for the Notre Dame men's basket­ball team as the 9-5 Irish prepare to face the Dayton Flyers tonight at 8 p.m. at the ACC with Marquette and venerable North Carolina visit­ing at the week's end. And Head Coach Digger Phelps has made a prediction. 
"I think we are doing a lot of good things," said Phelps. "We are disappointed with the loss at UCLA, but now more impor­tantly, we know how we can play. We've seen a lot of im­provements in some areas, and I just think we are due to ex­plode on somebody. 
"I think that's the frustration the kids have gone through. We've had four losses since the regular season and all those losses could have been wins in the last minute. It's not that we aren't doing things, I think we are growing in many areas. 
"So now its just getting ready to play against teams like Dayton, Marquette, and DePaul," continued Phelps, "because that's something we've established as far as the creditablity for the indepen­dents of the Midwest. 
"Dayton is a team whose record is very deceiving. People forget they beat Ohio State at home, and, of course, Ohio State upset beat the number-one team in the country (Iowa). (Dayton head coach Don Donoher) 
The men raised their record to 5-0 on the young season with wins over Minnesota (24-3), Lawrence (26-1), Wisconsin (21-6), and Chicago (19-8). 
Leading the way for the Irish was an impressive perfor­mance by the sabre squad and senior Kevin Stoutermire. The sabre men went 33-3 on Satur­day to up their overall mark to a team leading 40-5. 
After blanking Minnesota and Lawrence with 9-0 marks, the Irish only slipped by drop­ping two to a solid Wisconsin squad and one to Chicago. 
"Had you been there, you 
has his team ready to play Notre Dame, and they have good confidence, good experi­ence. Their record, (now at 7­8), is no indication of how well they can play. 
"They are going to be very, very fired up to play against us because of their situation, having lost to Marquette as well as DePaul," continued Phelps. "Now they have to win a game. There will be good in­tensity. For us to come home and get in the groove for four games is something we really need right now." 
Just how much Notre Dame has grown will be measured against round-robin rival Dayton. The Flyers are coming off a victory last week over Detroit, 74-69. Noland Robin­son, a freshman guard from Willard, Ohio, struck for a career high 19 points to share Dayton scoring honors with senior point guard Dan Christie. Senior forward An­thony Grant followed with a steady 14-point effort. 
Grant leads Dayton with a 
12.9 scoring average, grabbing 
6.3 rebounds per game. Christie, a three-point threat with a .500 average from long distance for the year, is scoring 
12.5 points a game and is shoot­ing .821 from the free-throw line. 
The Flyers could have a problem at the line since they shoot .666 as a team, while the Irish are at .734. 
would have seen some sabre being fenced that was good enough to win a national cham­pionship," DeCicco said. 
Pacing the squad was Stoutermire who went 8-0 and boosted his unbeaten record to 11-0. After fencing in the shadows of number-one and two sabre men for the last three years, Stoutermire has ac­cepted the challenge as the number-one weapon in the sabre in solid fashion. 
"Kevin Stoutermire put on a clinic," DeCicco said. "Two (opposing) fencers and two coaches couldn't believe that Kevin Stoutermire was fencing as he was. He looked twice as fast as he was last year. Phys­ically, he's as quick as a cat. Speed and quickness -he has that to burn." 
Also unbeaten over the weekend was sophomore Tim Collins, who went 9-0 to raise his record to 10-1. Despite drop­ping two to Wisconsin, junior Geoff Rossi notched seven wins to go 9-2 on the year, while Brian Quinn and Steve Rawlings went 3-0. Freshman Danny Yu went 3-1 to up his record to 4-L 
The epee squad also provided another pleasant surprise for Notre Dame as the epeeists went 29-7 following three losses against Stanford. Seniors Tim Vaughan (8-1 on the year) and John Haugh (6-0 led the squad with six wins. Seniors Dave Lennert (3-2, 4-2) and Ron Golden (4-0, 4-0), sophomores Ted Griffee (4-1, 6-2) and Ted Fay (3-2, 4-3), and junior Doug Dudinski (3-1, 3-1) each added depth for the Irish. 
According to DeCicco, the epee squad fenced well against the tough Wisconsin Badgers, 
see EPEE, page 11 


Irish head coach Lefty Smith had plenty to yell about at Kent State this weekend. Disputed 
Irish rally for series split 
By CHRIS DALLAVO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hockey team survived injuries, illness, questionable officiating, dis­puted goals and numerous penalties as it rallied for an overtime victory Saturday, and a weekend split, at Kent State. 
Round one Friday night featured a total of 26 penalties as the Irish fell, 6­
3. Captain Mike McNeill led the Irish with two goals, and Tom Mooney notched his seventh, as the two teams entered the third period tied 3-3. 
Four minutes into the third period, Kent State scored a controversial 
Swim teams battle to set records 
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer 
Over the weekend, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams not only competed against top teams, including seven-time Division III champs Kenyon University, but also had to contend with in­climate weather and bad logis­tics. Despite such adverse con­ditions, the Irish were able to set some personal records. 
For the women's team, soph­omore Tanya Kne recorded a time of 2: 16.4 in the 200-yard butterfly and fellow sophomore power-play goal, which brought the wrath of Head Coach Lefty Smith. 
"We went into the thiro period in pretty good shape, and then they got that dis­puted goal," Smith said. "We lost our poise for a while, and they scored two more quick ones. That was about it." 
Saturday night was a much more controlled af­fair, as the number of penalties fell to 21. It took a tremendous effort in goal by Tim Lukenda, and a clutch overtime tally by Mike Leherr, to prevent a Kent State sweep, as the Irish prevailed, 2-1. The only goal of the first two periods was scored by McNeill, his 
For the men, Pat Bradley es­tablished a new personal best of 2:17.9 in the 200-yard breaststroke. 
Assistant Coach Greg Lam­bert led the teams in place of Head Coach Tim Welsh, who had to leave due to a death in the family. Despite the lack of individual wins and a low place overall, Lambert looked at the positive aspects. 
"We had some very good per­sonal performances this weekend," said Lambert. "It was a tough weekend, but went smoothly considering all that happened." 
twelfth, which leads the 
Irish. 
Tough defense and rough play marked the third per­iod, as both sides spent their share of time going through the revolving door of the penalty box. 
Lukenda lost his shut-out with 1:01 left to play on a goal which once again was disputed. The Irish refused to fold, however, and Leherr won the game 5:51 seconds into overtime. Matt Hanzel and Tim Kuehl assisted on the decisive goal. 
"After having all of the in­juries and illness that we have had," Smith said, "we were very pleased that we were able to come back and win." 
heny, but the team also was late in arriving because of the bad weather and stayed in a hotel an hour away from the meet. 
"It was a learning experi­ence. We learned what to do and not to do in that style of meet. We had to cope with tough circumstances." 
The style of this meet was similar to that of the Midwest Invitational and NCAA Cham­pionships. 
Now the Irish are preparing to face Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure on the road this
The Observer/ Greg Kohs 

The Irish women's swim team had to overcome several obstacles Monica Smith saw her best Not only was Notre Dame ~eekend before hosting their to set individual personal records. Kelly Townsend details the time for the 200-yard facing strong teams from Ohio fmal home meet against Ball swim teams' trip to Kenyon University at right. breaststroke. Wesleyan, Dennison and Alleg-State. 
L------------------------------------------­





