
IACCENT: The latest from Love and Rockets I ;:'~,::~~;y~~~~w.d­
nesday. High 45 to 50. Mostly 

IVIEWPOINT: Will 1929 repeat itself? I~~.:;;...?_rn:_~~-a~o-~ti_i~~-~~g_L~w_ery_3"r:_~~__::::=====-..~ 

VOL. XXI, NO. 40 
Leprechaun 


ND investments
attacked by 

cadets hurt in market 
BY LIZ PANZICA the market," he said, adding
By CELESTE FREIND 
Copy Editor that in the last year and a half
News Staff 
the University increased in­The loss Notre Dame's en­vestments in bonds andAt the Air Force game Oct. 
dowment suffered because of decreased their investments in17, Leprechaun Brian Stark the drop in the stock market common stocks.
learned the occupational last week was not as great as The University invests in be­hazards that come with the job it might have been, according tween 75 and 50 percent of theof mascot to the Fighting Irish. 
to Father Richard Zang, in­endowment in the stock mar­A group of approximately vestment officer of the Univer­ket.
twenty cadets pounced upon sity. According to Zang, the Uni­the unsuspecting Leprechaun, The University had versity had only about 50 per­hoping to capture him and pass decreased the percentage of cent in the market at the timethe mascot up through the Air the endowment in the market of the drop last week. Zang said Force stands. 
in recent months, he said. in early 1980 the University was The Leprechaun, showing his "We had a portion of the en­at a high point with 75 percentfighting spirit, refused to dowment in the market, and it of the endowment invested incooperate and fended off the suffered along with the mar­the stock market. Zang saidcadets with the help of the male ket," he said. that the market then becamecheerleaders and security The University stock had ex­too full priced and risky for·guards. 
perienced major growth in the University investmentRemarking on the un­recent bull market, but the managers, and they gradually provoked attack, Stark said, drop "wiped out about one reduced the stock allocation in''Actually I would love to be years worth of growth out of late 1986.
passed up in our stadium, but the five years," said Zang. The drop on the stock market I'll be damned if opposing fans Zang could not specify the ex­has led to gains in other Uni­are going to embarrass or act dollar amount lost. versity investments, Zangdebase either our team, our The University has suffered said.
mascot, or any symbol of Notre a paper loss because the mar­Zang said that the University Dame." 
ket value of the stocks it holds increased investment in gov­Stark claimed that it is a has decreased. ernment bonds while reducingtradition at the Air Force However, Zang said, stock allocations. Because ofAcademy to embarrass and ha­"generally speaking our In­the unstable stock market ''therass the other team's mascot, vestment managers feel they price of government bondsand he refused to have Notre want to retain our invest­have been bid up," said Zang.
Dame look bad. 
ments." Zang said the princi­In a similiar incident that af­ple of the stocks will fluctuate, The University Investmentternoon an Air Force cadet at­but University holdings remain Committee will meet Nov. 12tempted to steal a flag from the the same. and decide what action, if anyIrish sidelines. While fighting Despite the stocks loss of will be taken because of theto retrieve the flag, the Leprec­market value, the University loss.
haun was hit in the nose by a "income remains the same offcadet and had to be treated by the dividends," said Zang. Zang said, "All economistsa trainer to stop the bleeding. 
"There is concern Cover the are reappraising the growth."
The trouble, however, didn't loss) but the endowment was But, Zang said, "most of theend there. 
positioned in a defensive way invested funds are sturdy long As Stark was being attended so we have not lost as much as term investments."
to by the trainer, another cadet blind-sided the Leprechaun, sending him into an aluminum 
Soviets say Gorbachev is ready for summit
bench. "What ticks me off most Associated Press and shorter-range missiles will Gorbachev surprised Secre­ciple on limiting Star Wars, but about it," said Stark, "was not be signed," Foreign Ministry tary of State George Shultz in indicated it was not manda­that I got hurt; that's part of 
MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbac­spokesman Boris Pyadyshev Moscow last week by saying he tory.
being a mascot, but rather the hev is ready to visit Washing­said at a regularly scheduled was not ready for another sum­When asked whether thefact that I had a game to cheer ton this year and sign an agree­news briefing. mit. Shultz said Gorbachev had United States must make con­for, and that's serious business ment scrapping medium-range In Washington, a U.S. official asked whether he could expect cessions on its space-defenseto me. It's important to me to nuclear missiles without a link said Foreign Minister Eduard an agreement on the Star Wars plan before the next summit,pay attention to the team and to restrictions in the "Star Shevardnadze would visit the space-based defenses. he said: "It is not a matter ofthe fans, and after a while the Wars" system, Soviet officials U.S. capital, by Soviet request, At the United Nations in New concessions. It's a matter ofattacks made that difficult to said Tuesday. at the end of the week to discuss York, Soviet Ambassador Al­how to make the next Soviet­do." 
"We have no doubt that an a third meeting between the So­exander Belonogov said the American summit the most agreement relating to viet leader and President Kremlin would like the summit productive, efficient and useful 
see ATTACK, page 3 
intermediate-range missiles Reagan. to reach an agreement in prin-for the whole of mankind." 


HPC hears plans for student-faculty interaction 
By KRISTIN COLLIGAN 
News Staff 
Professor Tom Schwartz and Father David Tyson an­nounced plans to better in­tegrate the academic and res­idential lives of Notre Dame students at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting Tuesday night. 
Tyson, vice president of stu­dent affairs, explained that the administration would like to achieve the "goal of the better­ment of student life" through programs to develop residen­tial life. 
To help achieve this goal the College of Arts and Letters has appointed Schwartz to the newly-created position of Col­lege Fellow. This position is de­signed "to enrich the undergraduate life of the on-campus Notre Dame student" through student-faculty inter­action. 
Schwartz described a Hall Fellow's program which would involve each dorm working with six or seven faculty mem­bers from any of the colleges of the University on a regular basis. 
Activities would be up to the dorms, but Schwartz suggested that dorms could sponsor infor­mal discussions, seminars, lec­tures or social events with fac­ulty members. "The College would like to get the faculty and students in touch with each other," Schwartz said. 
Tyson urged participation in the Hall Fellow's program and expressed the intentions of the Office of Student Affairs to "ex­pand residentiality over the en­tire campus." 
Another effort to "bridge the gap between student and aca­demic life" is being undertaken by the Alcohol Task Force. Tyson said the task force is cur­rently investigating the effect of alcohol on the "wellness and health of the Notre Dame com­munity." 
Tyson emphasized that the Alcohol Task Force is not a 
see HPC, page 3 
Wednesday, October 28, 1987
The Observer
page2 


In Brief 
AIDS related proposals were passed by an Indiana House-Senate committee, including educational programs and bills making donation of AIDS-tainted blood a felony carrying a jail sentence of up to eight years. 134 of the 211 confirmed AIDS patients identified since 1982 have died. Health officials have estimated from 10,000 to 25,000 Hoosiers could be carrying the AIDS virus. Associated Press 
San Francisco police are questioning a cocaine addict they believe may be a serial killer. He is suspected in 13 similar slayings of elderly women and over two dozen assaults in the San Francisco Bay area. The victims were beaten in their homes or gardens. Associated Press 
Soviets killed two Americans as they returned with rebel escorts from making a documentary on Afghanis­tan's civil war, U.S. and guerrilla spokesmen said Tues­day. Officials said the film was was financed partly by Rev. Moon's Unification Church. The ambush occurred earlier this month but was not announced because the rebels did not want to reveal their position in a radio broadcast. Associated Press 
High fashion was the focus Tuesday night as Viyacheslav Zaitsev, Raisa Gorbachev's personal desig­ner, showed his American collection at the Waldorf­Astoria hotel in New York. Zaitsev's garments are ex­pected to earn over $1 million in U.S. sales. Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Leprechaun window posters will be distributed starting tonight. Hall Presidents are reminded to pick them up if they have not done so. -The Observer 
Dr. Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum, will 
be the guest on Campus Perspectives on WVFI from 10 to 
11 p.m. The show is hosted by Chris Shank.-The Observer 
The Alumnae Speaker Series at Saint Mary's will begin at 6:30p.m. in the Haggar College Center Parlor. The speaker will be Kathleen Hessert-Gunderman, the president of Communications Concepts and a television journalist for 14 years. -The Observer 
"The Press and Privacy: A Conflict of Interest?" will be the title of a lecture given by Matthew Storin, former editor of the Chicago Sun-Times at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium. Storin, a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, will also conduct a seminar entitled "Print Journalism: Does It Have a Future?" on Thursday, October 29 at 2:45 
p.m. in the library auditorium lounge. -The Observer 


Design Editor .. .. ... .. ... .. .. .. .. Matt Breslin Accent Layout................. Rachel O'Hara Design Assistant ... .. .. .. Bernadette Shilts Sports Wednesday Editors .... Pete Gegen Typesetters..................... Chris Reardon .......................................... Brian O'Gara .................................. Becky Gunderman Sports Wednesday Layout .. Joe Zadrozny News Editor............. Ann Marie Durning Typists.......... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Cathy Haynes Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley ............................................ Jenn Conlon Spor_ts Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly ND Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle Photographer .................. Trey Reymond 



Appreciate the Mestrovic masterpieces in our midst 
I couldn't help but feel Ivan Mestrovic's ghost hovering over Notre Dame when I first visited Kim the campus some four years ago. 
I had listened to Mestrovic stories from as Vuratovac long as I could remember. The artist was born in my grandparents' Croatian homeland to par-Assistant Accent Editor ents who instilled within him a love of God and country that he translated into a lifetime of art, much of which he shared with Notre Dame. 

Mestrovic is an artist whom Rodin called "the greatest phenomenon amongst sculptors." He is honored and respected all over the world for his religious and nationalistic art. But there are Notre Dame students living in the midst of the largest American Mestrovic collection who • don't even know who Mestrovic is. 
.m-I~IW""l1~ 
"Maestro," as he was called during his tenure at Notre Dame, was a short but strong, bearded man with deep, black eyes. His Slavic work ethic kept him working long, intense days. "I long ago vowed that I would work up to my last day," Mestrovic had vowed. He was working in his Snite studio on the January day in 1962 when he died. 
"Maestro" was enticed by then Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh to leave Syracuse University and come to Notre Dame in 1955. 
Mestrovic had already been a legend in the international art scene. In 1915, he became the first living artist to be honored with an exhibiton at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, and in 1947, he repeated his success, breaking monly referred to as the fountains in front of a seventy-five year tradition by having his ex­O'Shaughnessy Hall, is one of the most visible hibition run at the Metropolitan Museum of Art of Mestrovic's Notre Dame works. The "Pieta" while he was still living. in Sacred Heart Church, "The Last Supper" in 
Mestrovic and Hesburgh both thought Notre the North Dining Hall, and "Moses" at the Res­Dame would be the ideal environment where burgh Library are among the most popular of the artist could continue his art and where it his Notre Dame works. His former studio, in could be appreciated because of the "religious the Snite museum, houses some of the artist's sense" of the campus. smaller sculptures. 
South Bend is a long way from the tiny village This year the University purchased the of Vrpolje, Croatia, where Mestrovic was born remainder of Mestrovic's art from his estate. in 1883. Directors at the Snite are planning on integrat­
When I visited Vrpolje, nestled in the heart ing more of his works around campus so that 
of pastoral Slavonia, I decided that the it can be appreciated by a wider audience. countryside is colorful enough to have inspired Mestrovic translated his staunch principles a Monet. But I realized then that it had inspired into his art, creating a legacy which Notre someone just as important. Dame is privileged to know. 
Mestrovic emigrated from his homeland after He had hoped that the Notre Dame commu­the painful Croatian struggle against Yugoslav nity would appreciate the legacy he left here. communism. But he never ignored the plight But unfortunately, amid new architecture and of his people. He dedicated the remainder of ideas, Mestrovic's art often goes unnoticed by 
his life and art to the peaceful tradition of his those who live right in its midst. 
people. The October backdrop cradles the Mestrovic He shared the work of his late years with the art with the intensity of a Notre Dame autumn. Notre Dame community. "Christ And The Now is a good time for students of life and art 
Samaritan Woman At Jacob's Well," more com-to appreciate the work of one of our own. 
STUDENTS ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO 
MONTHLY VOCATION REFLECTION & 
DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY THE HOLY CROSS VOCATIONS OFFICE. October's Leader: Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. Director of Music and Uturgy Sacred Heart Church 
Wednesday, October 28 8:00-9:30 p.m. at the Old College 
For Further Information:  Vocation Directors  
Tile Ollllner (USPS 599 2-<COOO) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriq exam and vacation periods. Tile ObMna-is published by the students of the  Fr. Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C.  P.O. Box 541  
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writilll Tile Obllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre  Fr. Paul F. Doyle, C.S.C.  Notre Dame, ln. 46556  
Dame, Indiana 46556. Tile Ollllna-is a member of Tile Aaodated Preu. All reproduction riahts are  Phone: (219)-239-6385  
reserved.  

-------,-~---­

Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
The Observer page 3 

Candygrams and bazaar 
Stock prices make tentative rise 

planned by SMC board 
Associated Press of about 29 points shortly after remains a lack of confidence, 
both in the market itself after 
last week's $500 billion collapse 
and in the ability of the White 
House and Congress to trim the 
federal budget deficit. 
"Until we get something 
really concrete (on the 
budget), people are going to be 
doubtful," said Ralph Acam­
pora, an analyst with Kidder 
Peabody & Co. He warned, 
"The market will wait for no 
man." 
In Washington, President 
Reagan and congressional 
leaders were optimistic 
negotiations would result in a 
plan to cut the deficit. Reagan 
said Tuesday the stock market 
plunge "has alerted us of po­
tential dangers on the eco­
nomic horizon." 
It was a lack of trust that 
caused prices to slip from their 
early gains Tuesday, the 
analysts said. 
"There has to be some light at the end of the tunnel or some confidence that the markets will stabilize," said Hugh Johnson, a senior vice presi­dent with First Albany Corp. 
The shift from bonds to stocks caused bond prices to drop sharply, with the Trea­sury's 30-year issue off about $18.75 per $1,000 in face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, jumped to 9.07 percent, from 
8.90 percent late Monday. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
repeat of the Alcohol Policy that came out in 1984, because it is looking at "every single aspect of the Notre Dame com­munity" which includes the students, faculty, staff, and ad­ministration. 
The Task Force will be hold­ing forums in several residen­tial halls the week of November 9th to the 15th. 
Student Body President Pat Cooke, a member of the Alcohol Task Fm·ce, encouraged stu­dents to attend these meetings, stating "we want to get input from a wide cross-section of people." 
The Student Union Board an­nounced plans for the upcom­ing Navy game. 
The students are all being asked to wear green for the game, and each room will receive a poster of the Leprec­haun for their window. The SUB asks that everyone dis­play the posters to show alumni the Notre Dame school spirit. 


Attack 
continued from page 1 

Stark mentioned that the in­cident was ironic when just the week before he had said in Blue and Gold Illustrated, "The Leprechaun this year has a profound respect for Notre Dame and NO ONE is going to embarass the Leprechaun in Notre Dame stadium or anywhere else. There is no sacrifice too great when Notre Dame pride is on the line." 
The Leprechaun believed that he sacrificed no quarter to the cadets and in doing so preserved the pride of The Fightin' Irish. 
Stark claimed, "The bottom line is that the cheerleaders and team lived up to the pride and spirit of Notre Dame. After all, we won." 
By CHRISTINE MCCANN 
Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance opened its 
meeting Tuesday night on a 
festive note, with the discus­
sion of Halloween can­
dygrams and the annual 
Christmas Bazaar. 
Vice-president Smith Has­
hagen said that Student Gov­
ernment will sponsor a can­
dygram sale today and 
Thursday. The candygrams 
cost fifty cents each and will 
be delivered on to students 
at both Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame on Thursday 
and Friday. 
Hashagen added, "It's 
really a nice thing to do for 
your friends, for a small 
price. We hope you all take 
advantage of it, and encour­
age your friends as well." 
The annual Christmas Bazaar, chaired by Mary Carol Cahill, is still in the planning stages. The event is slated to run from Dec. 7 through Dec.ll, and will fea­ture the sale of a variety of holiday treats and gift ideas. 
The Board il! also planning a Pool Party which will take place in the Regina Hall Pool. Planned are kick­board races, diving for pennies, and a belly-flop contest. 
In other business, a Gripe Night is planned for Sunday, Nov. 1. This will give stu­dents an opportunity to ex­press their opinions and complaints to represen­tatives of the Board of Governance. 
A table will be set up at the sundae bar during the dinner hour. 

NEW YORK -Stock prices rose $37 billion on Wall Street Tuesday as earlier gains in Asian and European markets encouraged investors to shift some money back into the jit­tery stock market. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which on Monday lost nearly 157 points in its second­worst point decline ever, reversed course and rose 52.56 points to 1,846.49. 
Nine stocks rose for every eight that fell in price. 
Euphoria from higher prices in Tokyo and Hong Kong sparked a quick rally in New York, sending the Dow average soaring nearly 90 points in early trading. 
But traders chipped away at the advance as the day wore on, selling stocks that had made gains during the mor­ning. The Dow slipped to a gain noon before regaining ground later. 
The rush of money out of stocks and into bonds slowed on Tuesday, with some money heading back into equities, breaking a trend that had helped depress stock prices since the devastating 508-point drop in the Dow on Oct. 19. 
Another factor pushing the Dow higher was an announce­ment by International Business Machines that it would spend an additional $1 billion to buy back its own stock. IBM, one of the 30 companies in the Dow average, rose $6.50 a share to $118.50. 
The market paid scant atten­tion to news from Washington that orders to factories for "big ticket" durable goods rose 1.1 percent in September, the first increase since June. 
The biggest problem facing Wall Street, analysts said, 


St.JoeBank Grand Opening 

October 26-31 
~Register to win an all expense paid trip for two to the ND vs Miami game. 
~ Grand Opening Halloween Dance at Theodore's, October 29th, 9 pm. 

~Pick up your free tickets at our office. Free gifts & food all week at the LaFortune BankingCenter. (While supplies last) 
No purchase necessary. Void where prohlblted. 


St.joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking Center in LaFortune Student Center. We're right on your way to wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed. 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­
thing you need from a bank, and more: 0 Free checking for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 offyour first order ofchecks. 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card with access to 
the CIRRUS nationwide network 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness). 0 Free VISA Traveler Checks. 
And of course we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire transfers. 
To open your free checking account package stop by our office in the lower level ofLaFortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 


St. Joseph Bank 
LaFortune Student Center, lower level Monday-Friday 10 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 
a

~ 101987 St. joseph Bancorporalion Member FDIC CIRRUS. 

-----~­
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1987 


ese s, 
having an M . ......__. 
• 

doesn't exactlyput youin select comp 

Time was. earning an MBA put you head and shoulders above the crowd. 
But in the push and shove of the current job picture. the opportunity to stand out isn't 
just anywhere. It's right here. At General Mills Restaurants. Inc. Where we recognize your 
accomplishments. And more importantly, help realize your potential. 
By putting you in a position to make decisions. Assert your leadership. Have an impact. Not five years from now. But right from day one. 
Contributing your marketing or finance savvy to our thriving Orlando-based billion dollar 
restaurant organization. There's The Olive Garden. fine Italian cuisine set amidst a natural 
garden setting. 

York's, a unique self-service restaurant concept thriving in 100+ locations across 22 states. And of course. Red Lobster. Far and away the leader in satisfying America's growing appetite for seafood. 
An eclectic group to be sure. But sharing in common one great opportunity for a few well chosen MBA graduates. So if you're interested in being more than just a face in the crowd, join us Wednesday, October 28 from 7-9PM for a presentation and reception in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn. 
Or write to Tom Higgins at: MBA Employment, General Mills Restaurants, Inc., 6770 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, FL 32859-3330. 

GENERAL MILLS RESTAURANTS, INC. 


RED LOBSTER® 


THE OLIVE GARDEN~ 
!C Grnrral Mills Rrstaurants. Inc. 1987 Equal Opportunity Employer 
Wednesday, October 28, 1987 The Observer page 5 




Insurance bill to pass 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate worked toward passage Tues­day of a catastrophic health in­surance bill to protect America's elderly against the devastating costs of serious ill­ness. 
Debate leading to votes on a handful of amendments and the bill itself came after weeks of behind-the-scenes negotiations that gained White House sup­port for a compromise version that closely tracks basic provi­sions of House-passed legisla­tion, but contains important cost-containment provisions for a new prescription drug benefit. 
That administration support -coupled with the already wide bipartisan backing for the mea­sure -assured eventual pas­sage. 
However, Senate rules allow­ing unlimited debate left uncer­tain when the floor vote would come on the measure, which was approved unanimously by the Senate Finance Committee last summer. 
Moreover, differences be­tween the House and Senate versions made inevitable the need for a conference commit­tee to work out final details. 
But the eventual parameters of the basic benefit and financ­ing package that eventually will emerge from those House­Senate negotiations -as well as the virtual certainty that some legislation will be passed and signed by President Reagan ­came into focus with word that the administration supports the compromise. 



MW'e've gottile 

The Fresh Alternative is even fresher with our oven-fresh sub rolls, baked on the premises. So don't settle for styrofood served on styrobuns. Come up to Subway where the sandwiches and salads are always fresh and delicious. 
~~~....~~:,...~.~~~~.• 
Save $$$ by using these coupons at Subway Sandwiches and Salads located just north of Ironwood on S.R. 23. Ph. 277-7744 
$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG SEAFOOD & CRAB $1.00 off a regular footlong Seafood and Crab sand­wich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 
fl!k~~­
$10.00 OFF SIX FOOT PARTY SUB $10.00 off a Subway six-foot party sub. Please order 48 hours in advance. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 

$1.00 OFF FOOTLONG BMT OR CLUB $1.00 off a regular footlong Subway BMT or Club sandwich. Not good with other offers. Coupon expires 11/30/87. 



Security Beat 
Saturday, October 24 
11 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident re­ported the theft of 15-20 CD's from his locked room over October Break. The value of his CD's is estimated at $250. 
2:30p.m. A Michigan resident was cited for illegally soliciting on the Notre Dame campus. 
2:30p.m. A student was arrested for disorderly conduct during the football game. 
2:30p.m. A Fisher Hall resident was cited for violation of the Univer­sity's Alcohol Policy. 
4 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident re­ported the theft of $80 and a blank check from his unlocked room. 
4:30p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from his unlocked room. His loss is set at $10. 
8:15p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack outside his dorm. His loss is estimated at $100. 
Sunday, October 25 
1:50p.m. A Food Service employee reported that a window in the North Dining Hall was broken by an un­known object. Repair will cost $125. 
2:35p.m. An Off-campus student reported the theft of her bike which was locked to a tree outside of Cus­hing Hall. The bike is valued at $70. 
2:45p.m. A Notre Dame Alumnus reported the theft of several items from her car during the football game. Her loss is estimated at $613. 
4:35p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his camera during the football game. 
5:21p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported that his Volkswagen hood ornament was stolen from the hood of his car while it was parked in the D2 lot. 
6:55p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re­ported that his bike was stolen some­time during mid-semester break. 
Monday, October 26 
9:05a.m. A student lost her blue credit card holder between the D6 parking lot and Howard Hall. Her loss is estimated at $67. 
10:32a.m. A BP Hall resident re­ported that her red Schwinn bike was stolen from the bike rack outside the dorm sometime between 3 p.m. on Friday, October 16 and 10:00 p.m. on Monday, October 26. Her loss is es­timated at $150. 
12:05p.m. A professor reported the theft of an etching entitled "The His­tory of Printmaking" by Warrington Colscott sometime between noon on Sunday and 8 a.m. on Monday. The etching is worth $500. 
3 p.m. An Illinois resident was cited for illegally soliciting on the Notre Dame campus. 
7:24p.m. A Walsh Hall resident re­ported that her denim jacket and wallet were stolen from the South Dining Hall sometime between 4 and 7:30p.m. on Sunday. Her loss is set at $205. 

Talks to reduce deficit begin 
Associated Press spending cuts that would 
reduce the federal budget def­

WASHINGTON-Pledging to icit enough to pacify world fin­leave politics at the door, ancial markets. negotiators for Congress and President Reagan said the the Reagan administration volatile financial markets are began searching Tuesday for a signals of potential dangers for mixture of tax increases and the " who 

19HH 
Howard Hu~hes Medieallnstitute Doctoral Fellowships in Biolo~ical Sciences 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute will award 60 Doctoral Fellowships -in an international eompetition administered by the National Hesearch Council. The Institute welcomes all IJUali­fied applieants and strongly encourages members of minority groups and women to apply. 
Eligibility: Applicants may be citizens or nationals of the United States or foreign nationals. Awards will be made for research-bas!'d doctoral programs in cell biology and regulation, immunology, g••netics, neuroscience, and struetural biology. Applicants must not have compll'led, in!'luding the current ll•rm, more than 24 semester hours, :36 IJUartcr hours, or "'luivalent, of gradual!' study. Individuals who arl' pursuing or who hold the M.D., D.V.M., or ll.IJ.S. degree and want to work toward a Ph.D. or Sc.D. in the biological sciences are exempt from the foregoing restrietion. Foreign nationals for whom English is not the primary lan­guage must submit scores from the Test of English as a Foreign L8nguage (TOEFL). 
Stipend & Allowances: The fellowships will be for three years, renewable for two a1ldi· tional years at the Institute's option. Each awanl includes an annual stipend of $12,300 (for 12-month tenures) to the FPllow, and an annual cost-of-education allowance of $10,700 in lieu of all tuition and fees. 
Deadlines: Deadline for Preliminary Applications is November 13, 1987. Awards will be announced in March 1988. Awardees must begin f1•llowships by Fall 1988. 
For Information: Call (202) 334-2872 or write: Hughes Doctoral Fellowships The Fellowship Ortice National Hesearch Council 210 I Constitution Avl'nuc Washin~-ooton, D.C. 20418 
doubted that these threats to our future growth were serious should have been set straight in the last couple of weeks," he said in a written statement. 

"We owe it to the nation to get the job done," the president added. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd said successful deficit-reduction negotiations would "show that the two par­ties can work together and that the government can respond to the need." 
"I just hope the action is bold enough and soon enough to reassure the markets and the American people," added Sen­ate Republican Leader Bob Dole. But he agreed that poli­tical differences among negotiators would be put aside; "We'll leave politics at the door," he said. 
Workers prepared the Capitol's LBJ room for theses­sions by wheeling out several round tables and replacing them with a square model. 
Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate and House named 14 members to negotiate on behalf of Congress. 
Treasury Secretary James Baker heads the administra­tion team that includes White House Staff Chief Howaru Baker and James Miller, direc­tor of the Office of Manage­ment and Budget. 
Whatever the negotiators come up with will be subject to approval by both houses of Congress and the president. 
Byrd said the starting point for the talks should be a deficit­reduction bill awaiting final ac­tion in the House on Thursday. 


Movie poster sale 



pageS . The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 
Huddling up 

have a laugh and relax. 
in the Huddle in the LaFortune Student Center to 

Scientists promised freedom 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -Chinese leaders are determined to uphold intel­lectual freedom and increase financial rewards to scientists who are needed to modernize the nation, a government offi­cial said Tuesday. 
Song Jian, the minister for science and technology, spoke at a news conference for the approximately 400 foreign and Chinese reporters gathered to cover the first Chinese Commu­nist Party congress in five years. 
The beginning of the news conference was briefly dis­rupted by the arrival of a reporter from Taiwan, the fourth to defy his government's ban on travel to the mainland. 
Congress meetings have been closed since the opening session Sunday, and the official media issued only sketchy reports on the activities of the nearly 2,000 delegates inside the Great Hall of the People. 
The Xinhua News Agency said delegates began Tuesday to approve lists of candidates for the new 209-seat party Central Committee, which gen­erally meets annually to set policy. 
The congress and Central Committtee meeting are ex­pected to replace aging, con­servative officials with younger, development-minded technocrats who recognize the need to stabilize policies toward intellectuals. 
Song was asked repeatedly how China can expect its scien­tists to work for national devel-
Maryknoll 
People working around the world with people. 

Brothers, Sisters, Priests, serve in 27 countries around the world. 
MARYKNOLL, NEW YORK 10545 

opment when they have suf­including myself, all suffered fered repeated persecution from that period, and we are during leftist campaigns sure that what happened then throughout the country's 38-will not recur in China." year history. He insisted that intellectuals 
faced no discrimination in a 
"It is true that some intellec­state dedicated to peasants and tuals. . . were greatly workers, and said the Central wronged during the Cultural Committee planned to adoptRevolution," Song said, refer­unspecified measures to im­ring to the 1966-76 era of ex­prove the living and working treme leftist rule. "We, conditions of intellectuals. 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
In cooperation wllll the Country Bake Shop of Simply fill out the below order form 
South Bend, we'll deliver fresh baked goods & mall to: 
right to your ~oor. P.(); Box 191 

Delivery Date.............................. Sen:e~~o::me 
···································· 
Reclpienrs Name & Address ~......................................................__...,.. 
Cakes:slzes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.00 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(B" only) 
CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 Icing: white w/ fruit $12.50 chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-lncludes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
Are you considering professional school? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Han•ard's Two-Year Master's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either tire Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
JOINT DEGREE OPTIONS AND CROSS-REGISlRATION OPPORTIJNITIES WITH OTiffiR SCHOOLS 
MEET WITH A KENNEDY SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVE 
DATE:  Moo., Nov 2  
TIME:  12:00 pm  
LOCATION:  PLEASE CONTACT YOUR CAREI~R PLACEMENT  
OFFICE FOR Tms INFORMATION  

All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! 
MBA school forum I will be held today 
By JENNIFER GRONER News Staff 
Representatives from 46 MBA schools will be available to speak to students about the programs at their respective schools at the annual MBA Mini-Forum sponsored by Career and Placement Ser­vices. The forum is planned as an informal, informational day and will be held Thursday from 12 to 4 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education, said Jeff Rice, assistant director of Career and Placement Ser­vices. 
Students of all majors who are considering MBA school or who want to get more informa­tion on this alternative are en­couraged to attend. 
"Most MBA schools are highly selective," said Rice, "however, they are looking for individuals with the talent to successfully complete their program, not a student of a spe­cific major." 

WEDNESDAY SEA6RAM•s COOLERS OOME~TIC ORAF-r 



TJ.IVASDAY 
·; !:.::0 ~:~~ fRibimGij"f 
*1.25 SPUDS MUG t ORAFT WITM iS¢ REFILL~ ZOMBIES 1: ~ t •2..2S PRIZES FoR BEST COSTUMES! 
OPEN 9-9 
THRU HALLOWEEN 
~Stoner~ 
~FUNSfORES 
THE HALLOWEEN SPECIALISTS 
OUR NEW STORE ON 305 S. MICHIGAN ST. IS STOCKED FULL AND READY FOR ALL YOUR HALLOWEEN NEEDSI 9:00-9:00 MON.-SAT. 12-5 SUNDAY ON MICH. ST. BETWEEN WAYNE & WESTERN NEXT TO CORNUCOPIA RESTAURANT -DOWNTOWN 
The purpose of this forum is to enable students to learn all their options so that they can make knowledgeable decisions about careers and higher edu­cation. Many students are un­aware of deferred admissions or special programs such as combined law and business degrees offered by different MBA schools, added Rice. 
Students attending the forum will have the opportunity to speak with representatives from a variety of schools in­cluding Duke University, In­diana University-Bloomington, University of Michigan, Northwestern University, and University of Southern Califor­nia. 
Students from 25 area schools in Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio have been in­vited to attend the forum as well. Attendance this year is expected to match or exceed last year's attendance of ap­proximately 200 students. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1987 The Observer page 7 
Iraq: Iranian tanker raided 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT -Iraq said its warplanes raided a tanker in Iranian waters Tuesday night in the campaign to destroy the oil exports that finance its enemy's war effort. 
A brief military communique issued in Baghdad said the planes attacked a "large naval target off the Iranian coast," the customary reference to a tanker, shortly after 7 p.m. It did not identify the vessel and shipping sources in the Persian Gulf could not confirm the claim immediately. 
In Kuwait, which has been hit recently by three Iranian mis­siles and a terrorist bombing, an official was quoted as saying civilians will be trained to help defend the sheikdom. 
Preventing attacks by Iranian-trained saboteurs ap­pears to be the plan's main ob­jective. Iran, which has been at war with Iraq since Septem­ber 1980, accuses Kuwait of supporting its adversary. 
The 13th convoy of Navy ships and U.S.-registered Kuwaiti tankers moved up the gulf Tuesday to the home anchorage, where three Silkworm missiles fired in a week hit two tankers and a major oil-loading facility. 
Shipping officials in Kuwait said the convoy was in the central gulf but did not know its precise position. An official of the state-run Kuwait Oil Tanker Co. said: "we will not comment on tanker move­ments." 
Iraq said earlier in the day that its air force made a "suc­cessful and effective raid" on the Agha Jari oil field in south­western Iran. Iran said one plane was shot down. 
Reagan administration offi­cials in Washington said that, despite China's denial of arms deals with Iran, a shipload of Chinese-made artillery shells 


Thursday: 9:00-1:00 
nni,\\1 \L-1]9
~Dance 
*Register to win free trip 
for two to the Miami game! ! 
Live Band!!! DM-51 plays at 9:30 
j$100 prize .for best costume I 
Friday: 9:00-2:00 COSTUME BALL co-sponsored by SUB 
Saturday: CLOSED 
Sunday: 12:00-6:00 
Tacos, tacos, tacos All you can eat!! For only $2.00 

was delivered in the past week and the two countries may be close to another sale of Silkworm anti-ship missiles. 
Hussein Musavi, the Iranian prime minister, said in Tehran that his country's economy will not be affected by a ban on U.S. imports of Iranian goods that President Reagan ordered Monday. Reagan also prohibited some exports to Iran because of "continued and in­creasingly bellicose behavior of the Iranian government.". 
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, moni­tored in Cyprus, quoted Musavi as saying: "Reagan's act is an­other stunt and a futile bid to save his lost dignity both inside and outside the United States." 
Col.-Khalid al-Quoud, Kuwait's civil defense director, was quoted Tuesday in the """ lish-language Kuwait Times · sa ing military train-

The Observer I Trey Raymond 

Constitutionally speaking 
Welch Professor Michael Novak speaks during a seminar on the Con­
• stitut~ ~Ca_tl)~c~-heJ9 Tl!~s_!lay ... The seminar .was th~ first of a '"'fhr'9e part series on thetopic. -• · 

S~ Korea gets new constitution 
As~'ciated Press Tuesday' establishing direct 
' presidential elections and 
/SEOUL, South Korea -South other democratic reforms 
Korean voters overwhelmingly demanded in massive anti-approved a new constitution government riots last summer. 


A Representative of the School of Law VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY will be on campus Friday October 30 to talk with prospective students. Interview times may be arranged through Career Services. 
UNITED WAY DRIVE 


Riot police in downtown Seoul battled protesters who urged voters to boycott the ref­erendum. Police said about 40 demonstrators were arrested. 
In another political develop­
ment Wednesday, Kim Dae­
Jung formally split the South 
Korean opposition by announc­
ing his candidacy for president. 
Election officials declared 
the referendum approved early 
Wednesday. The approval rate 
was 93 percent with nearly all 
the ballots counted; only a 
simple majority was needed. 
Officials said 80 percent of 
the country's 25.6 million eligi­
ble voters cast ballots. 
The constitution reduces the 
power of the presidency and in­
creases the authority of the 
legislature and the judiciary. 
President Chun Doo-Hwan, who took power with military backing in 1980, bowed to oppo­sition demands for reforms in July and announced that he would step down when his term ends Feb. 25. 
In addition to Kim Dae-Jung, vying for the presidenc.'J b'tl! rival ~vusWIOn leader Kim ~~ oung-Sam, government can­didate Roh Tae-Woo and former prime minister Kim Jong-Pil are campaigning to succeed Chun. 
Kim Dae-Jung told reporters 
he had no choice but to run be­
cause of the expectations of his 
followers. "I have confirmed 
that the overwhelming 
majority of our people support 
me enthusiastically," he said. 
Opposition supporters had been trying to get Kim Dae­Jung and Kim Young-Sam, the RDP president, to keep their earlier promises that just one of them would run, but they both refused to abandon their presidential ambitions. 
The opposition fears the can­didacies of the two Kims will split the opposition vote during the mid-December election and boost the chances of Roh. 
South Korean newspapers announced the referendum results in banner headlines in Wednesday editions. News reports said the government would accept the constitution Friday after final vote tabula­tions. 


Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
Making economic sense of market chaos 

Almost everyone is thinking and won­dering about last week's stock market crash. Economists are supposed to have explanations. I am learning eco­nomics but my understanding comes mainly from gut feelings I've been car­rying around ever since the Reagan revolution began. We use a great deal of common sense in making economic decisions in our personal lives. Why can't we apply that same common sense to national economics? Let me attempt to draw a few parallels here. 
David Carrier 
guest column 
Consider for a minute personal 
finances. The most basic reality is that 
we never seem to have enough money. 
So we're forced to make some hard 
choices. We might spend it all on one 
thing. B!Jt we have many n~eds an~ 
wants, making it -mOTe St!nsibfe-to 
spread it around, satisfying as many of 
!hem as possi~le. If we put it all in one 
Item and that Item falls out the window, 
we won't be very happy. 
We can increase our limit by borrow­ing, if the banker is confident we can pay it back. If we can't, there will be a great deal more interest to pay, and that cuts into spending on other things we'd rather have. Whenyoucan'trepay right away, one good way is to pay tui­tion. It's making an investment, one that enhances competitiveness and pro­ductivity, and therefore the ability to pay back loans and otherwise make a contribution to society. However, if someone were to use an educational loan to buy beer or a car and could not pay for tuition, we'd think he or she made a serious error of judgement. In fact, we would predict a dim future for that individual when he or she had to drop out of school. 
Reaganomics has been a nightmarish combination of the above bad choices-­all for the sake of a good party. 
First, President Reagan refused to acknowledge there was a limit to what we could spend. A government has the option of printing money, but that's in­flationary. So he borrowed heavily while cutting taxes, figuring new in­vestment would carry the day. To top it off, he did this during a recovery, normally a time when one would pay old debts and stash a bit of a surplus. He l.fl-'adrqoled spending in six years, exceeding the amou1Tt d .debt incurred 
Doonesbury 

by all previous administrations com­bined. A substantial portion of it was financed by foreigners whose confi­dence or political sympathies could change at any time. They could take it all home again tomorrow. 
The budget and trade deficits are only part of the story. Like the prodigal student, once we had the money we made a serious error of judgement and spent it in a very ridiculous way. Huge segments of the population never saw any of it. Ask people in the middle or lower economic classes, or who are living in the geographical area between the two coasts whether or not they felt the Reagan recovery. Farmers, factory and service workers, women, and minorities hav~ an seen layoffs, declin­ing wages, imd nroken dreams. Who really recovered? 
Think about it. 

At the consumption end, wealth ended up in the hands of the already wealthv. They bought Mer -'~ ' (no~ 
--eacfifla""csfstockS~rier expensive real estate, stock~, overse~s bank ac­counts and vacation homes, trips to Paris, and still more stocks. Had we spread it around, it might have had a better multiplier effect, benefitting many more individuals and communit­ies here at home. But we spent it in large clumps on people who already had more than they could use effective­ly. Too much of it went overseas and into the stock market. Then one day a half-trillion dollars fell out of the win­dow. Whoops! How about the government part of the equation? Some spend their money on education, health, job creation, public transportation, infrastructure, research on foreign markets and new products, and facilitation of exports. In this way they cooperate with industry and people in a way that enhances pro­ductivity and therefore, their competi­tive edge in the world. The U.S., on the other hand, has seen an erosion of this type of support. In­stead, we've spent it all on what Pres­ident Eisenhower thought was the single greatest threat to our national security--the military-industrial com­plex. Nothing has a greater capacity for sucking wealth from the economy. The diversion of resources includes re­search, scientists, technology, and whole industries in addition to invest­ment. And it has a few very expensive toys to show for it all. Do you know anyone with an X-ray laser? Would you know how to use one? Star Wars doesn't 
/)(}1(£, I MAKE AN INV&5T­IUHIITACTION? I N&V&R. TAY~Ef) EXPENSES,M!fNT, I &XPCCT 70 SEE INTO THE3 5/J.J5H FUN{)! CA5er· HUH? WHO CA5EY, OF A RETURN. HOIA/ COMe I OIEIJBEFORE GIVING ME 71113 CQNT/?Ol.LE[J COUR%./T
l IXW'T 513& NO RETURN NUMEJa<. 8YTHCN, YOUR LOAN ,J1,1E aJTLAY? /A/A?H/5 
! FRIJM YOUR HAPGONE70 .PROGRAM. : ACTION? &XPEN5£35. /-/ II 
.~ 
10-28 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Marys College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es ot the adminiStration of e1ther 1nst1tut1on The News IS reported as accurately and ob1ect1vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the maJonty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space 
•s ava1lable to all members ot the school commumty. and the free expression ot vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
even exist yet and it's eaten billions. 
In contrast, infrastructure such as a subway system serves many people and businesses for many years. It employs many workers in its construc­tion, maintenance, and operations. We can dig miles of tunnels and lay as much track for what it costs to build a B-1 bomber. We can even use the sub­way and feel good about it! 
What about our ability to repay the debt that financed it all? The largest portion of that debt is interest pay­ments. As we curtail spending, that percentage will increase exponentially and little will remain for other things. Since we've made miniscule contribu­tions to productivity, our ability to make money hasn't increased along with the .debt. We'll be spending so muc~ on m~rest and so little on pro­ductiOn a rece~ :on is inevitable. Our position ·~ look much like Latin A · a's does today. 
Finally, on the investment side, we h.:we corportations. How have they con­tributed to future productivity and com­petitiveness? The best measure we have :ts the trade balance, which has fallen through the floor and shows no sign of re(.'I.Overy. Apparently the other industriali2.t:ed countries don't want more of our·. goods at any price. We might interest'ttPird world buyers, but they entered th~ depression years ago. They can't buy ~u-~produc:ts when they're spending t~r foreign ex­change on debt repayrr.t'1:'i!nt. The best we can hope for from then~ is that they don't default now. ""'­
When I look at what corpo~ons financial markets have an awareness of underlying weaknesses in the eco­nomy that they're responding to. They see overvalued stocks, uncompetitive­ness in the face of a huge trade deficit, and declining productivity concurrent with the largest budget deficit ever. They see an impending flight of for­eigner's dollar holdings if our currency devalues further. They'd like to see something done about it, and instead we have a president who denies anyth­ing is wrong and continues to spend on the most inefficient industry in America. 

I'd feel a lot better about the crash 
if I thought we had increased our real 
economic strength over the last seven 
"I'd feel a lot better about the crash if I thought we had increased our real economic strength over the last seven years. In­stead we have a paper value of American com­panies that's artificially high and an ability to repay our debt that's frighten­ingly weak." 
years. Instead we have a paper value of American companies that's artifi­ciaJiy high and an ability to repay our dcot t!Jat's frighteningly weak. I have 
have done with their increased weaiDt-~Nehng the difference between them 
I see nothing but fattened executive salaries and mergers and takeovers. I don't see new investments in machin­ery, retraining for employees, exciting new products, higher export sales, or increased cooperation with labor. They know they've neglected investments in tangible capital and human assets in favor of paper acquisitions. It's no wonder they've demonstrated such a lack of confidence in continued growth. 
Why did the stock market crash? In­flation, high interest rates, and the threat of war in the Middle East are merely triggers. We've seen them before and they did not produce a crash, much less a depression. We've even seen budget and trade deficits before. So I don't believe this "correction" nec­essarily signals impending doom. I hope it doesn't have to come to that. 
Nevertheless, important actors in the 
Garry Trudeau 
CASEY. 
IJ/£3/..L, /A/OW
)f){JGOT 
N0,8UT... IAIHATA
ABOPY? 
8UT... PJ/lYOW/ I GUY, 13H, 
5/R.'? '-.... 

from the trees." David Letterman 
Editorial Board 
Ed1tor·m-Chiel Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor News Ed1tor V1ewpomt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor 
Accent Ed1tor Samt Marys Ed1tor 
Photo Ed1tor 

is h~ far we could fall. 
Pap~-ealth has a very scary prop­erty. When you set a match to it, it goes up in flames. Last Monday the match was lit. We might be able to put it out 
with drastic reductions in spending and by making tangible contributions to our productive strength and competitive­ness. If we don't solve these problems, maybe we'll be able to borrow or hy­perinflate our way out, no one really knows. 
We do know what could happen if we go on as if nothing's wrong, as they did in 1929. History will very likely repeat itself--because we failed to learn from it. 
David Carrier is a graduate student in Economics. 
Quote of the Day 
"Fall is my favorite season in Los Angeles, watching the birds change color and fall 
Kev~n Becker Mark Pankowski Chns ~''-~_rsk1 J1m R•ey Chns MurOhy Denn•s Corr•q,an M1chae1 Naughtl!' Sandy Cenmele J•"-' Carr011 

Operations Board  
Busmess Manager  Bnan Murray  
Advert1smg Des1gn Manager  Dav1d Culligan  

Advertlsmg Manager ProduCtion Manager Pro,ects Manager Systems Manager 
Controller GraphiC Arts Manager 
Founded Nov~ber 3, 1966 
Melinda Chapleau Melissa Warnke Mark Mclaughlin Shawn Sexton Tracy Sch~ndele Laura Stanton 

.... 
... .. , 




Accent
page 9 Wednesday, October 26, 1967 
Energetic Def Leppard is truly 'animal' 
New Love and Rockets LP fires out of sight 
ANN SEIFERT accent writer 

W
owl The new Love and Rockets album Earth-Sun­Moon hasn't left my turntable since It came out. and each time I hear it. I catch another new shade of meaning. Under-

Love and Rockets Earth-Sun-Moon 

statement and experimentation are woven throughout the lyrics of these twelve new tracks by the English trio. Unbelievably, the listener Is not completely lost as the songs unfold and run away and come back. 
Yes this album Is typical Love and Rockets, but It Is Important to understand that what Is typi­cal of this fantastic band Is atypical of the music world. Consider these lyrics: "When you're up, it's a long way down. When you're down, it's a long way up." 

MARK NEMEC accent writer 
D
ef Leppard's lead singer :.Joe Elliot stated last night. "In the Immortal words of Robert Plant. 'It's been a long time since we rocked and rolled."' Truer words were never spoken. 
When last seen, this band was riding high on their Pyromania album and tour. After the auto accident of drummer Rick Allen and the subsequent amputation of his left arm, however, the band fell on hard times. Now, after three years, Def Leppard Is back with their new album Hysteria, and the tour rocked and rolled Into the ACC last night. 
Hysteria, a one hour compila­tion of twelve new songs, has come under flre by some crit­Ics, including myself, as being too mellow and mainstream. During the entire 90-minute concert. however, they sang only five of their new songs. And the crowd did not mind one bit. 
Opening band Tesla took the stage at exactly 7:.30, a surprise to everyone, and started the night well. This band from northern California is one to watch for the future. They have a no glitz, ail guts style to their music; and for a 
Bill Watterson 
z:z. ...(SX)\(\£5 ~
I lii<.E m 
During this song, entitled "No New Tale To Tell," David J sings these words in such a way that their powerful meaning isn't stressed. In a unique move, the band leaves it to the listener to delve Into the nuances and shadowed depths of the song by himself. Thus, the meanings become very individual and personal for each listener. This is true artis­tic expression and It shows. 
For those who aren't fanatics already, here's a little history of Love and Rockets. In the begin­ning there was Bauhaus: four members, many albums, and much popularity and influence In England and worldwide. Then, in 198.3, there was a breakup, and from the debris of Bauhaus emerged Tones On Tali. 
The music of Tones On Tail was a little weirder than Bauhaus, but In the same dark and moody vein. In 1984 Tones On Tail produced The Album Pop, which was really a culmination for the band. It contained their huge club and cult hit "Gol". 

The Tones On Tail banoproject eventually drifted off, and in 1985 a new group released an import album strangely titled Seventh Dream of Teenage Heaven. This new group was Love and Rockets. Its members had been the core of Bauhaus and Tones On Tail all along, so another collabora­tion was almost guaranteed and certainly welcomed. 
David J on vocals and bass, Daniel Ash on vocals and guitar, and Kevin Haskins on drums produced a magnificent "debut" as Love and Rockets. Songs like "Haunted When the Minutes Drag," "A Private Fu­ture," and "Bali of Confusion" (available on the first press­ings) are virtual masterpieces of acoustics and vocals working together to create different moods. Calmness, frenzy, and crashes are all present on this first album. The lyrics are quite Incredible as well. 
The year 1986 brought a domestic contract with Big Time Records In the U.S., and Express, the second release for L&R. This album was more pop, and seemed a little un­seriously either, as the cut finished, but was still way "Lazy" shows. The first single ahead of most other bands that Is "No New Tale To Tell," and It year. "All In My Mind" was the rocks out. The video Is unique first single and was less acous­and a little bizarre, but so Is tic and more upbeat. Some this band. Other choice cuts to critics claimed that the band hear are "Mirror People" and had sold out. but now Earth­"Waiting For the Flood." Really Sun-Moon disproves that claim. though, there Is not a weak 

The band Is not afraid to song on the entire album. Ail take chances and experiment. In all, a great album by a great They don't take themselves too band. 
new band, they sounded sharp. This band has much potential, and with time and experience, they could be one of rock's top acts. They used the in-the­round format well for forty-five minutes straight and got the crowd rocking. 
After a thirty-five minute in­termission, the lights dimmed, and Clint Eastwood's famous "Do you feel lucky" speech boomed through the speakers. Def Leppard took the stage to "Stage Fright" and "Rock, Rock til You Drop", both from Pyromania. They slowed it down a bit with "Women" the first song off Hysteria, then went back to the old with "Hit and Run" and "Too Late for Love." 
The next song up was the title track "Hysteria," accompa­nied by an incredible laser show that looked awesome off the dome of the ACC. The lasers kept blazing through the next three songs, "Gods of War", "Die Hard the Hunter", and an extended version of their old classic "Bringing on 

WVFI TOP TEN 
1. Happy When It Rains Jesus and Marv Chain 
2. 
Wonderful Life B\at:k 


3. 
Unhappy Birthday The Smiths 


4. 
Never Le~ Me Down Again Depeche Mode 

5. 
Say Abo~.1t Love The BoDeans 

6. 
See Hsw We Are X 


7. 
Vani~hing Girl Dukes of the Stratosphere 

8. 
The· Motion of Love Gene Loves Jezebel 

9. 
E:.tvis Is Everywhere Mojo Nixon and Skid Roper 1Q:. Fangs Trip Shakespeare 


This chart compUed from the playllsts of WVA-AM640 as of Oct. 26 
the Heartbreak". 
The last set started with "Foolin," continued with the new "Animal" and, for the food fanatic, "Pour Some Sugar on Me." It ended with "Let It Go" and an extended version of "Rock of Ages". 
The concert flowed very smoothly, and even after a three year hiatus, Def Leppard still has what it takes to bring a crowd to Its feet. Elliot can still belt out those high notes, and guitarists Phil Collen and Steve Clark. along with bassist Rick Savage, sounded Incredible. 
But the effort was most evi­dent In Allen, who, with only one arm. never missed a beat. He performed with three snare pedals at his left fool a bass pedal at his right fool and . cymbals and more drums for his right hand. 
The band ended with 'Photograph" and "Good Golly Miss Molly" as an encore. Here's hoping Def Leppard puts as much energy Into their next album as they did on stage last night. 
> 
Wednesday, October 28, 1987
11111 m..wrNotnt Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· Mnt c.m. eccepts clualfled ~116ng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtday. n. ~s.mt rMry'll office, located on the third floor or tt.uv-Collge Center, eccepts clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday thfOugh Friday. Deedllne for next.a.y clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clasalfleda must
Classifieds be pnllleld, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five 
charKttn~­

HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S CALL MATI Uncle Dick atlll needa 2 Navy G.A.'a. "* NEON MARENGO ALBATROSSES thank you, st. judelll x1686 Call Chuck (the rock Godl). 283-1877 ••• NEON MARENGO ALBATROSSES
~N_O_T_IC_Es~J ~~-~--R_R_EN_T__ i:os:r····ciai:ooRoNze····e:.:.:RfiiN.Gs::.
"* DINNER DINNER DINNER ••• 
page 10 The Observer 

TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 Wordprocessing-T yplng 272-8827  FEATHERED MASKS HOW UNIQUE SHOP AT COUNTRY HARVESTER FOR YOUR TREATS LAFORTUNE BASEMENT NOON-5 P.M. FoRS'.tti:!ii~'ESr..:.:uR:.\Nr,S.A:fi"N·E;.:Fi CAMPUS. OWNERS SELLING AT WELL BELOW ORIGINAL COST. BUSI­NESS MAJOR:.., APPLY YOUR HARD EARNED EDUC.~TION AND OWN A BUSINESS EVEt. COLLEGE KID WANTSI 277-0352 AFTERNOONS.  NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe after 6pm at 287-4561 NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL TONY x3348. NEED BC & ALABAMA TIX IN A BIG WAY. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE NAVY TIX (GA & STUD). CALL JOHN AT 3451. HELPIIIII NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND BC. WILL PAY  Desperately need ,BC tickets. Will pay lots of $. Call Becky 277-3835 DESPERATELY NEED BC TIX KEVIN X 2388 DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. STUD. TIX OR GA'S. PLEASE CALL DIANE -273511 NEED NA'VY'''&"'BAMA'''TiX'I'I'I''SUSiE  JUDY'S JUDY'S JUDY'S ••• 7 7 7 ••• WED. WED. WED.-George the Timid. ................................................................ ECONOMIC COLLAPSE IS IMMINENT! or at least mine is anyway it I don 'I get Navy tickets tor my family call Dan at £3444 Logan Volunteeral Halloween Dance Thla Friday! 6:00 PM set up at Logan Bring Your Coatumel NMMC Council lor the Retarded  wire-looped, triangles... lost between south quad and football stadium day ol USC game ... Please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. Thank You. HELPINEED TICKET FOR BC DESPERATELY! CALL ROB AT 234­7168 PANGBORN PANDA Do you want to learn how to French kiss? Awaiting your arrival in Angers. H.  
Typing 237-1949 or 277-8131 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. TERRIE'S TYPING WORD PROCESS­ING, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, LETTER QUALITY PRINTER, WORD PERFECT, $1.50 SS, $1.25 DS, 287-1283 GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES  ............................................. POOL TABLE lor sale. Good Cond., sturdy, will deliver. $80. Bar room size. Mike or Tom 272-3763 STUDENT 'TICKETS FOR NAVY, BC, BAMA FOR SALE. CALL 2025 BEFORE THURSDAY MIDNIGHT OF EACH GAME. Stud. Tlx: NAVY, B.C. 2 pair. 1-465-0966 4 SALE: 1·WAY AIR TICKETS ANYWHE!nEI DETAILS: MO 21192  BIG SSS$$$SS$ CALL 3510 NOW! I need 1 Navy GA or Stud. ticket. Call x4016 ask for Jerry. ..........; ..................................................... Want two BC GAs. Will buy or trade 2 Navy studs. x1 000 HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067 l$iS$$sss"fiia·iiuci<s.'S$$$$$$$$$ I NEED UP TO 5 NAVY TIX GA'S , STUD TIX , OR A MIX  X2919 I need 1 Navy student or GA ticket. Please call Mike at 283-1661. Need 4 Boston C.·ND tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good buckt. Call 233­2651. Hei:P'i.'·:·:·j:iiii:P..M'ii-sHow··;.:·ac·s;:u·­o-~:NT WHAT IT REALLY MEANS TO BE A CATHOLIC. I WANT TO TRADE AN ALABAMA STUD. TICKET OR $$ FOR A BC STUD OR GA. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL MIKE AT 3419 OR 3413. THANKS.  ...........................................:.£....... Thank-you so much St. Jude ...................................................,....... Tired of studyingf Burn the books and party with THE BOTIOM LINE This Tuesday and Thursday at CHIPS $2.50 PITCHERS TUESDAY DIME DRAFTS THURSDAY BOTIOM LINE at Chips THE LEPRECHAUN IS COMING I WHERE IS THE LEPRECHAUN?  Depression lasts only as long as you want it to. a quote from "Bear". MPJ:·w~-~~~;;;~·i;~;;;~i·;·,:,:;;~~~d·v~~·,·'N~;ct time please take me with youlllove you I Yours only, SLT My Kielbasa, Here's your personal. I love you. To hell with Julie. Your Nut Sgt. Robin (Beautiful) Sqyres. I think I love you. Your favorite cadet (Hopetullyl)  
GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES GRACE HALL DEBATES ''OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 •• ..OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 GRACE PIT OCT 29 ••  FOR SALEII BOOk external disk drive tor a Mac system. Less than a year old. $200 firm. Call Bob 239·7656 it interested. HELPIIIHELPIIIHELPIIIHELPIII I have to sell my airline ticket to NYClaGuardia by Wed. night. LEAVES Southbend 3:10 Fri. Dec. !!!,lEAVES NYC 11 :50amMon.Jan.11 CHEAPIIICHEAPIIICHEAPIIICHEAPIII ONLY $178.001111111 please call me by Wed. night. NANCY £3196 TICKETS I need 2,4, or 6 GA's tor NAVY game & 2 tor ALABAMA. Phone Joe at 255-7770  CALL MIKE £1527 A. I AM INDEPENDENTLY WEAL THY B. I NEED ALABAMA GA's C. DO YOU SEE POTENTIAL PROFIT D. WILL BEAT OTHER OFFERS CALL RICK 1817 ................................................................ NEED FOUR B.C. STU. OR GA'S CALL JOHN AT 3064 $$$$1 need 2·3 tickets tor the USC game. Call 271-0122 iF..voi.i'iL..secc·;;;e..2..sc··:rix'F'ofi-:.\ REASONABLE PRICE, CALL 283-2916. I NEED GAa FOR ALL HOME GAMES.272-8308  I have 4 NAVY GA's. Taking best offer by Thurs. 8 p.m. --BOB x1219 ..................................................t••••••••••••• BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDSI Call John 271·0939 ;·;;~;i ..H:.\iie..2.'NAvv··ii·..:.::s;~;;;:;-:.·aesr OFFER OR TRADE FOR.2 BAMA TIX NANCY X2841 HEATHER'S COMING FROM OLE MISS FOR THE ALABAMA GAME BUT STILL NEEDS A TICKET. CALL SCOTI 4191 WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2 NAVY GA'S CALL 2734 MY DID SAID 'GIT ME SUM BAMA TICKETS OR YU'LL BE OED' (HE'S FROM BAMA IF YOU CAN'T GUESS).  Need cash fast? ... We need help selling tastl Help sell the single 100 YEARS a tribute to N.D. football. call Peter x1672 or Paula x3784 NOWI ................................................................ HARMANKARDON CASSETTE DECK MODEL 291 for sale. Asking $190. 2 years old, works like a dreaml Complete packaging, manuals. Call 287-8249 If In­terested. ;s:?s.....sii.ERs····eiiii'Fiv--···;:j:ii.i'Fis'oAv NIGHT AT CLUB 23. CLUB 23 SUP­PLIES YOU WITH BOTH RELAXING AT­MOSPHERE AS WELL AS GREAT PRICES ON FOOD AND LIQUOR. ................................................................ 2 FREE MIAMI TICKETS  ................................................................ THANK YOU OUR LADY, STS. JOSEPH, JUDE, ANTHONY AND ALL YOU OTHERS, AS WELL AS BLESSED BROTHER ANDRE AND FR. SOLANUS CASEY FOR HELPING ME GET MY DEGREE JPL. U2 TIX FOR SALE I INDY CONCERT, NOV. 1 CALL 2084 What I can get, I don't want What I want, I can't get Happy 19th Birthday to that COLORADO Beauty: KATHY SHANNON The DUCK Club  
..  I LOST/FOUND I LOST-Gold Cross and Chain -Sentimen­tal Value -Please call Doug 2327 REWARD: MY GRANDMOTHER'S HEART-SHAPED LOCKET AND CHAIN CALL 6712 A.M. OR 233-1298 EVENINGS. REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD WED. BEFORE BREAK I LEFT A GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WITH A RED STRIPE IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL AT LUNCH. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THAT SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IT IS MY FA­VORITE SHIRT AND I MISS MY MOT­HER VERY MUCH. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD ................................................................ LOST BLACK LEATHER GLOVE be­tween Howard and Administration Build­ing on Tueaday, October 27. To return, please call 2548 or return to Lost and Found. ................................................................ LOST: WOULD THE PERSON WHO TOOK THE CRAYONS FROM LEWIS HALL'S SYR PLEASE RETURN THEM TO KATHY IN AM. 417 OR PATTY IN AM. 423. THANKS. IF YOU HAPPENED TO TAKE MY CHEMISTRY BOOK FROM NORTH DINING HALL I WOULD APPRECIATE IT RETURNED. I CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY A NEW BOOK SO IF YOU WOULD JUST PUT IT BACK ON THE SHELF WHERE YOU FOUND IT I WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL! Lost: Gold St. Christopher medal sur­rounded by 10 small pearls with Maureen inscribed on the back. Extreme sentimen­tal value. Lost on Saturday Oct. 24. REWARD If found. Call (818) 795·7535 collect and ask tor Mary. ................................................................ I HAVE A BROWN LEATHER JACKET WHICH WAS RETURNED TO ME BUT IT IS NOT MINE. I WANT TO RETURN IT TO ITS OWNER BUT AT THE SAME TIME I WANT MINE BACK. IF YOU LOST A JACKET OR HAVE FOUND ONE AT 103 CAMPUS VIEW, PLEASE CALL 284-5437.  and help him out. $$$$$ I need 2 GA's to Navy & USC Call Dan 3319 NEED 3 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S CALL ANN AT 284-5216 NEED 3 GA'S FOR USC CALL JOHN AT 2924 NEED 4 GA'S FOR USC CALL SHAWN AT 2235 WANT TO SEE BC FANS CRY? Then aell me your BC GA'a ao my 11latera, coualna, and uncles can -the Eeglnloaelllllll Call Steve at 232· 9816. BC TIX BC TIX BC TIX NEED BC TIX BC TIX CALL 4579 FOR YOUR BEST OFFER FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES 111111 ********************************* ********************************* I really, really, really need 1 Alabama ticket. Student or GA will do. Cell John at 283· 2445. ********************************* ·················-··············· BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a GIMME, GIMME, GIMME Big, Big cash offered tor BC GA's I'm holding your family hostage Please call Chris X 1489 need 3 BC ga's --call Mary at £2808 NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 after 6pm. BC Yep, I need two GAB lor the Boston Col­lege game. Please call Mike at 271·0765. ................................................................ DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238  $$$$$$ NEED NAVY TIX II stud or GA call Karen 271-0585 WILL TRADE OR PAY$ tor BC tix. call Rich 283·2144 FOR SALE NAVY & USC GA'S CALL 2088 ................................................................ NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK­ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-94110 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 268-4494 AFTER 5 PM. ................................................................ NEEDED: 2 NAVY GAs VINCE 271·9441 ................................................................ NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS X2800. Your parents hate you and aren't coming to the Navy game,sell me your stud or GA ticket. Rob 271-0463 Need Alabama tickets -GA's Call Bill O'Hara 295-1900 ext.319 between 8·5pm NEED B.C. STUDENT TICKETS CALL VAZ. AT 271-0579 PAY BIG $$$ ................................................................ I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. PLEASE CALL NED AT 35151 I HAVE NAVY GA'SI BEST OFFER·-·£2737 ................................................................ I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS, NO MATIER WHAT THE COSTI Patrick 271-0477 2 Navy GAs needed. Please call Jim £3278 i"Nii'Eo"a·N..:.:w·aA:s:·c..:.:i:i:·s;;:.\FioN 284-5260 NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR NAVY CALL JULIE 4128 OR 3714 NEED NAVY G.A.S $$$$ 288-7033 ................................................................ NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-8282. S$$$$. ................................................................ DESPERATELY NEED 2-6 BAMA GA'S $$$ DAD WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM AT 283-3669 NAVY GAs 2 Needed. Kevin 289·8216 after 5  I need 4 tickets to the Alabama game, 2 Ga's and 2 student. Call £3251 and ask tor Chris. Will pay MUCHO DINERO II DESPERATELY NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL PAT AT 283-3859. Will trade 2 BC GA'alor 2 Bema GA'a. Call Marla at £4559 YOU REALLY NEED NAVY GA'S DON'T YOU? WELL I'VE GOT 'EM ---­----­AND I'LL TRADE YOU FOR 2-4 BC GA'S AND<JR STUD. TICKETS ---­·-· CALL DAN AT 1858 CALL DAN AT 1858 CALL DAN AT 1858 ---·­NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE 'RENTS· NAVY GAME-CALL ANNETTE 271-0205 $$$Beer Need 2GA's tor Navy Call Scott at 1111 or 1112 NEED 1 NAVY GA PLEASE CALL MEGAN 271..0784. GIRLS: AIRLINE TICKET SOUTH BEND TO BOSTON FOR SALE. NOV. 23· 3:15PM DEPARTURE--­CALL 284­4271. TRADE 1 NAVY GA FOR BC GA 284­5229 1 NAVY GA FOR SALE 284-5229 NEED BC GAs OR STUD 284-5229 You want 2 Navy GA's? Make me an offer £4027 I NEED ALABAMA TIX CALL X3811 PERSONALS WAKE UPI oA·ii·ii·a·us·e;·cc;·co·aiieii·&-i:iaiioA'. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. oo''vou"i-iA-iiii''Pii'NN..sr'A·:re·aA··s??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM I WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 Fiio·E· ..·--··Ne.eo.Eo.......,..o:........c:·;;;:.:;,;·_ PAIGN-URBANA,IL OR  Join ua lor our Grand Opening week of actlvltlaa at the LaFortune Banking Center of the St. Joseph Bank. October 26-31 . Food & Relreahmenta all WMk long . FrM Grand Opening gift (while aup­pllea laat) . Grand Opening HallowMn Dance at Theodore• Oct. 21, 8 pm. Band: DM 51 $1 DO tor beat coatume. F-anacka. F-drawing tor myatery prtze. Tlcketa are FREE and available at the LaFortune Banking Canter. . Reglater to wtn an all expanse paid trip tor 2 to the Nov. 28, Notra Dame va Miami game . F-travel and 3 nlghta of deluxe ac· commodation• provided by Traval­more/Aak Mr. Foater. 2 F-tlckete plua $100. You can reglater now through Nov. 5, at the LaFortune Banking Center. HOURS Mon.·Fri ..... 10•m lo 7pm Saturday ..... 10em to 1pm I need 1 Navy Stud. ticket-call 264-4438 ................................................................ Going to U2 Nov 1? Need a ride? Take our busl Call 284-5016 or 4357 ................................................................ MD (ALIAS TOM CRUISE) AT LEWIS'S SYR YOU TOOK MY BREATH AWAY, BUT YOU HAVEN'T CALLED SINCE. WHAT'S THE MATIER? HAVE YOU LOST THAT LOVING FEELING? CALL & WE'LL KILL DA WABBIT TOGETHER. ................................................................ DEAR "SMILE OF JOHN TRAVALTA,' HOW YOU AMERICANS SAY WOULD YOU LIKE TO GO TO ONE TINY UTILE LEWIS FORMAL AND TOGETHER WE'LL "WIPEOUT' ALL OF THOSE PSEUDO-DATES. STOP THATI I HATE YOU I GET YOUR DOG TO A VETI NO I REALLY DON'T WANT YOU TO GO! YOUR BESTEST LUNCH BUDDY BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL COMING SOON MICHELLE C THIS IS JUST TO LET YOU KNOW THAT I REALLY DID MISS YOU OVER BREAK. HOWEVER, MORE PROOF IS AVAILABLE! KENNY ................................................................  Girls stay away from JIM STREICHER, he is MINEI I Love you Jlml Maurice WELCOME BACK TIGHEI ISN'T GRAD SCHOOL FUN? CALL ME SOMETIME, YOUR NUMBER IS UNLISTED. I'M LINDA FROM O.D'S PARTY. 284·5055 To Chris on 3rd floor Cavanaugh: It was great tun cheering with you at the NOOSC game. I hope Hrains THIS Sat­urday, tooll Signed, The Raincoat Girl at £5117. LAST CHANCEl Limited apace remalna on Notre Dame Winter Ski Breeka to Steamboat, Vall, Winter Park and Breckenridge lor live or seven nlghta deluxe lodging, lift tlcketa, mounteln barbecue, akl race and more from only $154. Optional air and charter bua tranaportatton available. Hurry, call Sunchese Toura toll lrM tor lull detalla and color brochure, 1· 800.321·5~11 TODAY! ................................................................ Party In the Snlte? Preposterous I 'Soft Chairs and Free Piz­za" Join the STUDENT LIAISON COM­MITIEE Thursday Oct. 29 at 5:30 In the Snlte Board Room . Allison-Yes, this personal is finally from me. It's not from the lonely southern dude. I love you. -Pooksters. Pat Costello .... Mr. Mojo Risin' 87? No that's O.K. We hate pumpkins anyway. Thaaank You. Happy Birthday, Sandy Cerimele. Call her today at 284-5011 and invite yourself to the pizza party. (Don't just give hints, especially it you've already bought her a gift. . . And bring your own pizza and birthday cake.) .......................................................... For those who haven't bought Sandy a gift, she could use a camera. And some film. Yes, Sandy, I'll come to the party . ................................................................ It's just a joke. . WE LOVE YOU, SANDY and MIMI T. After all, we're Nice Guys. See you at the next party.  
FOR SALE BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR NOV. !)AME IU'f:K£NiJ&QRADUATION. 1·219­211-7153.  Needed 4 Navy GA's and 2 stud tix call Brian i456 Needed 4 Nllt'Y GA's & 2 stud tlx call Brian at 1456 -~-~ ........................... j:iiii:Pi.........~·:.......  $$$$$ $$$$$$ Need 'Barna G.A.'s 272­4162 Need 2 Navy GAs ? I'll trade 2 Navy GAs tor 2 B.C. GAB. Call Bryan at 4280 ASAP Need one Navy Student or G.A. ticket. X2723 Mary-Frances  BLOOMINGTONNORMAL,IL OR ST. LOUIS AREA-·AFTER NOON ON OCT.30 ALL GAS & FOOD PAID iMMe.iiiA'ii'tiosP.rrAi:..'Pi:A'cE.i.i'ENi-FoR DOCTORS AND NURSES No malpractice lnaurance problema, limited modem equipment, lew medlcatlona, end none ol the advan­tage• o1 modem aclence. MEDICINE  LOST: GREEN RUGBY SHIRT WIRED STRIPE IN S. DINING HALL ON WED. BEFORE BREAK. MY MOTHER GAVE ME THIS SHIRT BEFORE SHE RETURNED TO PANAMA. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL 2359. I WILL PAY YOU$$$ ................................................................ "HOW CAN YOU BE ON STAGE WITH A REGULAR FROM LETIERMAN'S  HELP MEl I'll pay $$ for 2 BC GAs and 1 student. Call Meg at 3566. HEY T.D.III Who loves you?? The gor­geous hunk that you are had beHer know that your semi-roommates dol Guess  

DESPARATELY NEED ... WITH A CHALL!=.NGE. If you're lntar­LATE S NIGHT?" WATCH THE OB­whatl I LIEIIIIIIII 
1 NAVY GA t eated In really prP.cticlng medicine In the SERVER FOR ANSWER.
2, 3 or 4 GA'S WANTED FOR ALABAMA 
PLEASE CALL SCOTI X1640 South Pacific, l.trica, Asia, the Middle ................................................................ Attention PEBBLE BEACHERSII I want
GAME -CALL BILL x3386 East or Latin America, call us. We're the M. DONOVAN I LOVE YOU and I WANT to be youlllllll Happy Late B-day Annl
WANTED \ 

Maryknoll Missioners -a professional M.D.SI Love, Your Carnival Babe XOXO Cards Kara? That's just the way you areNeed 2 or 4 BC GA's. Willing to pay. Call 
TICKETS NEEDED Roman Catholic response to the 21st ................................................................ AnnetteII Beware because we are all vic­
Dave at x3200 $$$$ I NEED $$$$$ FOUR B.C. TICK­WNithy Wall St. Alum needa Penn St. Century. DAVE IS COMING, TINA BEWARE tims of the Partylllllll 
ETS GOOD FRIENDS COMING and BC tlx. Call M.tt 1-8110-223-8558. \ N;.d·N;:;y·;rt;;d~~i-ii~k~i:·c;ii'i<i;;;·26i'5 CALL: 
Father Skip Flynn M. Faehner -the original party IamasterPLEASE CALL FITZ $$$$$$ 3758 ·.~ you can help out. 
(312) 787-8496. THANK..GOD..FOR.MY·H:r:ti:"i'i:oiie we didn't forget your birthday. Hide that$$$$$$$ THANK YOU DESPERATELY NEED 1Q-15 NAVY ;·t.fio.i&Ai.iA'iJ:A:;:·;;w&ii'cAL:i. YOU KRIS. 3-8-87-NANDO stupid musical~~· 
............... ______

................................................................ mlng trunks: Y~u·re going tor a IWiml 7 yr. old. Wed. afternoons only. Must CALL TODD AT 2937 or 1050. Thanks again, St. Jude i'Mive own traneportaUon. Call 288-3852 TOASTMASTEPSi ................................................................ 
CHILDCARE needed lor our 4 yr. old and G.A.'e AND TWO BC STUDENT TICS. MARC AT 2SI-7105.SS$SSSSS$SS$ 
s~;;·;;;;;··2·ac-o"A:;·;;;;;;;;:·;;;:·;;;;;;·~;;;;:I 
after 5:00. I JUST WON A MILLION FROM ED be a horneymoonl Gall Lawrence at 32SO. TOAoiT'MASTERSI Lynne Strand, 
MCMAHON AND NEED 5 BAMA STUD TOASTMASTERS! I didn't forget Friday'alunch. I hed a noon wanted babyaltter tor flve month old baby TtX. CALL MARK X3371 (PS. HAVE j";;;;;;: ·;;.:;--G;.;"i;;;."'N~~·;,;;..-~. ••• ;>INK FLOYD TIX ••• 223 HAYES HEALY appointment. I've tried to call. PLEASE two dayl a IWHik bMdllv and thureday KEENAN REVUE TIX) Thr.{re tor my summer Job boas. Help for sale lor their concert at Indy's Hoosier EVERY WEDNESDAY 7:30 FORGIVE ME. 11 pm til 3pm ., mlnulee from Notre me ·tlUI and I will pay top dollar. Bob Dome on Nov. 12th. Call Annette £2488 NEW MEMBERS WELCOME Your friend and (ex?) lunchmata, Mart<. 
o.m. call 2B7 11017 allar 4pm I liNd tha followl..Uxa NAVY-2 '37114 20118. 141 Stonford, 


--­ - --­ 
October 28, 1987  Tile Observer  p;tqP 11  
Sports Wednesday  


AP Top 20 Soccer Top 20 
AP Top Twenty 

Soccer Amerlce Top Twenty The Top Twenty college college foot teams In The 
•• of October 18 

Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paron­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20·19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents The Top 20 college teems In the Soccer America 
are Italicized. 
Magazine poll complied by Its editorial staff, with this season's records and alternate ranklngs In the1. Oklahoma (40) 7·0·0 1176 

Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America

2. Nebraska (1 3) 7-0-0 1134 coaches' poll. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
3. Miami (7) 5-{)-0 1108 4. Florida State 6-1-0 986 5. LSU 6·0·1 952 
1. South Carolina 1 1-1·2 3 6. Auburn 6·0·1 900 

2. indians 14-2·0 1 

7. UCLA 6+0 842 3. Virginia 14·1-1 2 B. Syracuse 1·0·0 n4 4. Duke 12·3·0 6 9. Notre Deme 5-1.0 732 5. Harvard 7-0-2 5 10. Florida 5-2-0 612 6. SMU 9·3·0 4 11. Indiana 6-1·0 546 7. Notre Dame 14..()-1 17 12. Georgia 6·2·0 491 8. Clemson 11·2·1 10 13. Tennessee 5·1-1 466 9. Evansville 12·4·0 9 14. Clemson 6-1·0 459 
10. William & Mary 13·1-1 11 15. Ohio State 5·1-1 327 11. North Carolina 11·3·0 

16. Alabama 5-2-0 279 
12. San Francisco 10·3·2 7 17. Oklahoma St. 6·1·0 187 13. No. Carolina St. 9·3·1 

18. Penn State 6·2·0 184 
14. Seton Hall 8·2·3 8 19. So Carolina 5-2·0 112 15. Connecticut 10·3·2 13 

20. Mich. State 4·2·1 110 
16. Yale 8·2·0 17 


17. UNLV 9·3·0 18. Columbia 6-2-2 12 
19. San Diego State 12-3·0 15 
20. Loyola (Md.) 9·3·2 
Greet Lakes Region Top 10 
1. indiana 15·2·0 50

1. Nebraska 18·1 2. Evansville 12·6·0 422. Illinois 18-3 
3. Akron 8·4·3 41 4. Northwestern 17-3 3. Western Michigan 14·3 
4. Notre Dame 14·1-1 37 5. Pittsburgh 26·2 
5. Bowling Green 10·4·0 29 
6. Wisconsin 12·7·0 22e. Notre Dame 18-5 

7. Wis.-Milwaukee 12·7-0 22 8. Minnesota 16-7 7. Penn State 15-6 
8. Wls.-Green Bay 13-5-2 19 9. Oklahoma 14·6 
9. Wright State 9·5-2 9 
10. Ohio State 9·5·2 6

10. Northern Iowa 21-2 
lnterhall Soccer 
North American w L Pet. GB 

Carroll 3 .250 4 Fisher 4 1 .800 
Garibaldi's Men 3 .250 4 ~tanner F.C. 4 1 .800 
Grace A2 1 4 .200 4.5 Sorln 4 1 .800 
South American Keenan White 2 3 .400 2 Mornssey B 1 4 .200 3 
x-O.C. Hoobers 6 0 1.000 Cavanaugh 0 5 .0 4 
y-Morrlssey A 5 1 .833 1 Western European Law School 4 2 .667 2 Grace A 3 3 .500 3 Pangborn 3 1 .750 
Dillon Big Red 2 4 .333 4 Stanford 3 1 .750 
Zahm B 1 5 .167 5 2ahm A 3 1 .750 
Holy Cross B 0 6 .0 6 St. Ed's 2 3 .400 1.5 
•·clinched division title Keenan Blue 3 .250 2 
y-clinched playoff berth Alumni Dogs 4 .200 2.5 
Wadnelday'a Games Europaan 
Keenan Blue vs. Stanford w L Pet. GB 

Flanner B vs. Dillon A x-Holy Cross A 6 0 1.000 
Grace A2 vs. Carroll Olllon A 3 1 .750 2 
O.C. Spleiphs vs. Garibaldi's Men Flanner B 3 2 .600 2.5 
Thuraday'a Game O.C. Spleiphs 2 3 .400 3.5 
Zahm A vs. Pangborn 

Irish Soccer 
Through Sunday 

PLAYER, POSITION G·S SOG G A PTS GW Joe Sternberg, MF 16-16 46 12 2 26 3 Bruce McCourt, F 16-16 47 10 6 26 2 Randy Morris, F 16·16 30 3 15 21 1 Rolfe Behrje, MF 16-16 26 5 3 13 2 Pat Murphy, F 16-0 9 5 1 11 1 Kurt Roemer, MF 16-16 18 2 6 10 1 Steve LaVIgne, MF 16·16 13 2 1 5 2 John Guignon, ST 16-16 B 2 1 5 0 Steve Lowney, SW 16-15 6 2 1 5 2 Paul LaVIgne, WB 15·0 4 1 1 3 0 Danny Stebbins, F 16·0 11 1 0 2 0 Tom Connaghan, F 16·0 6 1 0 2 0 Dave Augustyn, WB 16-16 2 0 1 1 0 Steve Archer, F 4-0 0 0 1 1 0 Dan Gordon, WB 16-12 0 0 0 0 0 Mike Drury, SW 15·0 1 0 0 0 0 Alex Kratz, WB-MF 13-5 1 0 0 0 0 Larry Scanlon, WB 2-0 1 0 0 0 0 Rob LaMear, MF-F 2·0 0 0 0 0 0 Mark Crowe, WB 1-0 0 0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 16 230 46 40 132 14 OPPONENTS 16 122 15 10 40 1 
Corner Kicks: Notre Dame 129, Opponents 63 Penalties: Notre Dame 278, Opponents 296 
KEEPER G·S MIN G GAA s so RECORD Dan Lyons 16-16 1550 15 0.67 64 6 14·1·1 Mike Sattan 1-0 10 0 0.00 1 0 o-o-o NOTRE DAME 16 1560 15 0.87 65 6 14-1-1 OPPONENTS 16 1560 46 2.65 80 0 1·14-1 
SCORE BY PERIODS 1ST 2ND 10T 20T TOTAL Notre Dame 19 21 4 2 46 Opponents 7 8 0 0 15 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Volleyball vs. PURDUE 
Thursday No sports scheduled 
Friday Hockey vs. WINDSOR Volleyball vs. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO Field Hockey at Southwest Missouri State SMC Soccer at IU·South Bend SMC Volleyball at SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE INVITATIONAL 
Saturday Football vs. NAVY Hockey vs. WINDSOR Soccer at UCLA Field Hockey at Southern Illinois­Carbondale Women's Cross Country at North Star Championships (Marquette) SMC Volleyball at SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE INVITATIONAL 
Sunday Soccer at San Diego State SMC Soccer vs. SIENA HEIGHTS COLLEGE 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Notre Dame over Air Force, 35-14 

y-Fisher 3 0 .875 46 7Notre Dame over Southern Cal, 26-15 
Sorln 2 2 0 .500 28 18Tuesday Carroll 1 3 0 .250 8 58 Volleyball St. Ed's 0 4 0 .000 12 66
Volleyball vs. WESTERN MICHIGAN 
Texas over Notre Dame, 15·13, 15·6, 15-1 Leehy Dlvlalon 
Field Hockey at .Michigan State 

Notre Dame over Baylor, 15-6, 15-6, 6-15, •·Stanford 4 0 011.000 102 6 y-Aiumnl 3 1 0 .750 50 21
15-9 

Cavanaugh 0 2 2 .250 0 28
Notre Dame over Texas A&M, 15·11, 16·18, 

Holy Cross 0 2 2 .250 0 61WALES C'ONFERENCE 15-2, 15-10 Zahm 0 2 2 .250 0 38Adame Dlvlalon 
Nebraska over Notre Dame, 15-3, 15-1, 15-9 Paraeghlan DivisionW L T OF OA P11. 
Notre Dame over Wisconsin, 15-3,7-15, 15-x-DIIIon 4 1 0 .800 55 14Montreal 5 4 1 40 32 1'1 12, 15-10 y-Fianner 2 1 2 .600 42 20Boston 5 3 0 31 30 10 Grace 2 2 1 .500 27 40
Tri-State over Saint Mary's, 4-16, 15-10, 15­

QuRbec 4 3 1 34 28 9 Off-Campus 1 1 3 .500 25 4013, 15-6Buffalo 3 4 2 33 39 8 Morrissey 1 2 2 .400 20 27Harfford 3 5 0 22 34 6 Keenan 1 4 0 .200 22 50
Patrick Dlvlalon x-cllnched division title y-cllnched playoff berth New Jersey 6 3 0 33 25 12 
N.Y. Rangers 4 3 3 43 35 11 Soccer QuarterfinalsN.Y. Islanders 5 2 0 30 16 10 Man 
Fisher vs. Alumni Washington 5 3 0 34 25 10 Notre Dame 1 , DePaul 0 Dillon vs. Flanner Philadelphia 3 5 2 23 37 8 
Portland a, Notre Dame 1 Semifinal a Pittsburgh 2 5 3 40 42 7 
Stanford vs. Fisher-Alumni winner Cross Country 
Pangborn vs. Olllon-Fianner winner 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlalon 
Man 
WOMEN'S CONFERENCE w L T OF GA P1a Second-place at Indiana lntercollegiates W L T Pet. PF PTEdmonton 6 3 0 43 32 12 Notre Dame 17, Southern Cal 41 y-Breen·Phllllps 6 1 0 .857 128 78 Calgary 5 5 0 41 41 10 Women y-Pasquerilla West 5 1 0 .833 1oo 46 Winnipeg 4 3 0 24 22 8 Indiana 27, Purdue, Notre Dame 91, Ball y-Farley 5 2 0 .714 102 38 Los Angeles 2 6 1 22 37 5 State 101, Indiana State 113, St. Josephs Lyons 5 2 o .714 93 22Vancouver 2 5 0 28 33 4 Lewis 3 3 0 .500 58 46

115

Norrla Dlvlalon Pasquerllla East 2 3 0 .400 60 46 Walsh 1 5 0 .167 26 116 Chicago 5 4 0 39 38 10 Field Hockey Badin 1 6 0 .143 8 105 Detroit 4 3 0 21 24 8 Notre Dame 0, American 0, in 20T 
Howard 1 6 0 .143 20 98 Minnesota 3 4 1 27 31 7 Notre Dame 3, Catholic 2 y-cllnched playoff berth Toronto 3 4 0 31 35 6 
Notre Dame 3, Georgetown 0 St. Louis 2 4 0 19 22 4 

Notre Dame 2, Maryland-Baltimore 0 Tl\uraday'a Oarnea Pasquerllla West vs. Badin Tueldey'a Reaulta Pasquerllla East vs. Lyons
Tennis

Quebec 5, Edmonton 0 Sunday's Games Los Angeles 4, Pittsburgh 4 Men Badin vs. Breen-PhllllpsNew Jersey 4, Philadelphia 0 Wake Forest 4, Notre Dame 1 Farley vs. Walsh Chicago at N.Y. Islanders, late Vanderbilt 4, Notre Dame 1 Howard vs. Pasquerllla West Minnesota at St. Louis, late Northwestern 4, Notre Dame 1 Lewis vs. Pasquerllla East Washington at Vancouver, late 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE  AMERICAN CONFERENCE  Houston 37, Atlanta 33  
Eaet  Indianapolis 30, New England 16  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  San Diego 42, Kansas City 21  
Washington Dallas Philadelphia St. Louis N.Y. Giants  E81t w L 5 1 3 3 2 4 2 4 1 5  T Pet. 0 .833 0 .500 0 .333 0 .333 0 .167  PF 150 135 123 128 99  PA 101 134 163 152 142  Buffalo Indianapolis New England N.Y. Jets Miami Cleveland  3 3 0 .500 3 3 0 .500 3 3 0 .500 3 3 0 .500 2 4 0 .333 Central 4 2 0 .667  115 121 113 151 168 149  156 89 128 144 133 80  Seattle 35, L.A. Aalders 13 Washington 17, N.Y. Jeta 1 8 Chicago 27, Tampa Bay 26 Philadelphia 37, Dallas 20 Green Bay 34, Detroit 33 San Francisco 24, New Orleans 22 N.Y. Giants 30, St. Louis 7  
Houston  4  2  0  .667  149  124  
Chicago Green Bay Minnesota Tampa Bay Detroit  Central 5 1 0 .833 3 2 1 .583 3 3 0 .500 3 3 0 .500 1 5 0 .167  160 108 122 141 119  77 115 132 111 179  Pittsburgh Cincinnati San Diego Seattle Denver L.A. Aalders Kansas City  4 2 2 4 Weat 5 1 4 2 3 2 3 3 1 5  0 .667 0 .333 0 .833 0 .667 1 .583 0 .500 0 .167  133 95 133 166 150 126 89  121 125 104 118 139 112 201  Sunday'a Oamaa Houston at Cincinnati Indianapolis at N.Y. Jets Kansas City at Chicago L.A. Aalders at New England New Orleans at Atlanta Philadelphia at St. Louis Pittsburgh at Miami Tampa Bay at Green Bay  
San Francisco New Orleans Atlanta L.A. Rams  Weal 5 1 3 3 2 4 1 5  0 .833 0 .500 0 .333 0 .167  168 142 117 110  144 123 178 153  Monday'a Reaulta Cleveland 30, L.A. Rams 17 Minnesota 34, Denver 27 Sunday's Reaulta Buffalo 34, Miami 31 (OT) Pittsburgh 23, Cincinnati 20  Washington at Buffalo Cleveland at San Diego Detroit at Denver Minnesota at Seattle San Francisco at L.A. Rams Monday's Oame N.Y. Giants at Dallas  


DRINKNG AND DRIVNG 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHIR 
Sports Lists 

, 1R~\NlNG GRou,.,
~~\1-'"Ds 
Schools with the most players In the NFL* 
33 32 
26 26 
24 23 
-lila M 23 

*Opening Day Active Rosters 
Source: NFL 


Scoreboard lnterhall Football 
MEN'S CONFERENCE Results for Oct. 14 through Oct. 27 Rockne Dlvlalon w L T Pet. PF PA
Football 

•-Pangborn 3 0 .875 77 13 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
Irish move to ninth; top six unchanged in AP Poll 
Associated Press 
The Notre Dame football team jumped one place in the Associated Press College Poll, moving from tenth to ninth after Saturday's victory over Southern Cal. 
The top six teams remained the same in this week's poll, while Michigan fell out for the second time in three weeks. 
Top-rated Oklahoma's 24-6 victory over Colorado earned the Sooners 40 of 60 first-place 
Goal 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame's two races over break, the Indiana Intercol­legiates and a dual meet against USC, served to in­\!rease the team's optimism en­tering the Districts. 
At the Intercollegiates on Saturday the 16th, the Irish finish• ·d just 10 points behind Indiana for second place. Steady senior Dan Garrett once again paced the Irish with a second place finish. 
Notre Dame placed two other runners, Ron Markezich and votes and 1,176 of a possible 1,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 

Nebraska, a 56-3 winner over Kansas State, received 13 first­place votes and 1,134 points while the other seven first­place ballots went to Miami of Florida, which defeated Cin­cinnati 48-10 and totaled 1,108. 
Oklahoma, Nebraska and 
Miami are ranked 1-2-3 for the 
fifth week in a row. Last week, 
Mike O'Conner, in the top five, and were in a position to win the meet. But a large -too large -gap between the Irish fourth and fifth place finishers, however, allowed Indiana to slip through for the victory. 
"If our fifth man (Mike Smoron) could have stayed with our fourth man (Pat Kearns) , " said Irish Coach Joe Piane, "then we could have beaten Indiana, and that's en­couraging. We're improving every week." 
Last Saturday's meet against USC did nothing to hurt the team's ever-growing confi-
Oklahoma led Nebraska 42-12 with 842 points, Syracuse Oklahoma State, Penn State, 
in first-place votes and 1,179-crushed Colgate 52-6 and South Carolina and Michigan 
1,134 in points. climbed from ninth to eighth State. 
Florida State and LSU were with 774 points and Notre Dame idle last weekend and received jumped from lOth to ninth with Last week, it was Florida, 986 and 952 points, respective­732 by downing Southern Cali­Georgia, Tennessee, Michigan ly. Auburn remained No.6 with fornia 26-15. State, Indiana, Ohio State, Al­900 by defeating Mississippi Florida made the Top Ten for abama, Penn State, Oklahoma State 38-7. the first time this year. The State and Michigan. 
Gators, 11th a week ago, were But Clemson fell seven spots idle but rose to lOth place with Michigan, which fell out of to No. 14 after its loss to North 612 points. the rankings two weeks ago but Carolina State. UCLA beat Cal­The Second Ten consists of got back in last week, dropped ifornia 42-18 and moved up Indiana, Georgia, Tennessee, out again by losing to Indiana 
from eighth place to seventh Clemson, Ohio State, Alabama, 14-10. dence. A 17-41 rout of the us. We lost to Loyola at the first two spots at the Districts Trojans set an excellent tone beginning of the season, and -both being among the top ten for the team to move into its people wrote us off. There's no teams in the country. The third District training. pressure on us, because no one spot, though, is completely up expects us to be strong. We in the air, with the Irish com­Running in rainy and cold could surprise people." peting against Michigan, weather at the Burke Memorial Central Michigan, Indiana, and Course, Garrett (who admit­Wisconsin and Illinois are ex­a number of other teams tedly was "a little tired of pected to run away with the the national hid. finishing second"), Markezich, and O'Conner again led the way. A lone Trojan, Ray Grif-BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
fin, broke the Irish's pack, as ~======================:;i'
freshmen Pat Kearns and Ryan Cayhill finished fifth and sixth for the Irish. 
The Co-op Advantage 
Garrett thinks his team is an excellent position entering the Districts. "No one knows about 
UIC's 
Title 
continued from page 16 
"We ran really well," Ryan 
said. "It was a good team ef­
fort." 
Saying the Irish had· a good 
team effort was, perhaps, an 
understatement. With top run­
ner Theresa Rice having a 
somewhat off day, the rest of 
the team picked up the slack. 
Ryan had been looking for con­
sistency, and he got it at this 
meet. 
Senior co-captain Julia 
Merkel finished ninth with a 
time of 18:27, followed by Jenny 
Ledrick in the 13th spot at 
18:34. Rice came in 15th with a 
18:40 clocking, followed by Kathleen Lehman in 23rd and Linda Filar in 27th. Other Irish harriers were Wendy Murray in 40th place and Terese Lemanski in 47th. The top three Irish runners took second, third, and fourth in the small school division. 
"We only had 46 seconds be­
tween first and fifth place," 
Ryan said. "We came back and 
were able to beat Ball State 
(who beat the Irish at the Notre 
Dame Invitational earlier this 
season). The team is beginning 
to peak and are all running 
good times." 
The third-place finish 
showed just how far the cross 
country program has come in 
just two years of existence. The 
individual performances along 
with the team results continue 
to improve with each meet. 
"Our fifth-place time this 
year was as good as the first­
place time two years ago," 
Ryan said. "I think it was a 
good step for the program. A 
lot of teams are now beginning 
to take us seriously. We're 
coming on stronger than last 
year at this time." 
The harriers couldn't have 
picked a better time to peak 
with the North Star Conference 
Meet and the NCAA Districts 
looming on the horizon. The 
reasons for the improvement 
are simple. 
Rice has emerged as one of the top runners in the district, while the veteran Merkel con­tinues to improve on her times and finishes at a time when she could be looking to the future. Ledrick, only a freshman, has been a model of consistency at the No.2 spot. Lehman remams steady in the No. 4 position while Filar, Murray and Lemanski push each other to better times while fighting for the final spot. 

Add the return of junior stan­dout Terry Kibelstis to the lineup after being sidelined with a stress fracture, and 
Consider the benefits of your MBA from UIC. 
A program that works with you: Gain management experience
MBAwhile earning a salary through co-op. You'll enhance your resume and you could land a great job. Excellent teaching and research in 11 concentrations comple­ment your co-op learning experience. 
A dynamic location for learning and 
living: Chicago's exciting business environ­
ment is in our front yard-and our backyard. 
Our campus is easily accessed by car and 

Ryan thinks the Irish can make good showings in both upcom­ing meets. 
"I don't think we've had one week where we've had a solid performance from the top five," he said. "One of these meets all five will click. We've had minor injuries and nagging injuries here and there." 
Now is the time for the run­ners to put all of that behind them. 

eotape8! 
Inaugural Mass lr . Malloy's Inauguration Now available from Educational Media Rm OCtE 
Mass $24.95 Inauguration $34.95 Vt-iS, Beta, or Srnrn Video Tape 
TERRIFIC VALUE 
public transportation. A valuable alternative: Chicago's only state-supported, AACSB-accredited MBA program helps you reach your goals without 
losing your shirt. For details, write or call 312·996-4573.
(Xjr=n 
~ CHICHJO 

The MBA Program (M/C CJT7) College of Business Administration Box 4348 Chicago, Illinois 60680 
A representative will be at the MBA Mini-Forum on October 29. Please stop by. 
join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 

Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice Not valid with any other promotion. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
The Observer 
page 13 

Sports Briefs 
Buck Rogers of the Montreal Expos was named the National League Manager of the Year after leading the Expos to a surprising third-place finish. Roger Craig of the Giants was second in the ballot­ing. 
The Judo Club had several members place in the Michiana shiai Judo tournament Sunday. Mike Flynn placed second in the 156-pound green­belt division, Kathy Brienza placed third in the wo­men's lightweight Black-belt division, Paul Jackson took third in the 172-pound green-belt division and John Fox placed fourth in the 172-pound Black belt division. -The Observer 
The ski team will collect the remainder of the Christmas Trip money tomorrow in the LaFor­tune main lobby between 7-9 p.m. Also bring a copy of your insurance. Call J.P. at 271-9082 if you have questions. -The Observer 
Squash Club T-shirts are in. Members can get their shirts by contacting Allan at 3211. -The Observer 
Team tennis rosters are due Friday, October 
30. Contact hall commissioners for details. -The Ob­server 
The Sailing Club will now hold its weekly meetings in room 204 O'Shaughnessy because of the cold weather. There will be a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. for all members. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course will be held through NVA. Those interested should attend an informa­tional meeting tonight in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial at 6:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
SMC tennis wins District tourney 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team completed its fall season by winning the District Tourna­ment held in Anderson, IN last weekend. 
Thirteen teams competed, and for every match won, they received one point. The Belles finished with a score of 38 points, followed by DePauw with 30 and St. Francis with 18. As the champions, Saint Mary's will advance to the na­tional tournament, which will be held in Kansas City in May. 
"I'm really excited we won," said Head Coach Debbie Laverie. "I thought it would be really close between us and DePauw." 
In the singles finals, the Belles defeated all of the DePauw players whom they had never beaten before. These proved to be very big wins for the team. 
Freshman Sarah Mayer won the number two singles over her St. Francis opponent, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
"As a freshman, she's done an outstanding job all year. We can always count on her," said Laverie. "She beat players this weekend who had a lot more collegiate experience than her, and she showed a lot of heart and desire to win." 


Sophomore Jane Schnell won 
the number six singles, defeat­
ing a DePauw player 6-2. 7-5. 
"Jane wasn't in the starting 
line-up last year, but has 
worked hard all summer and 
has won a lot of matches for 
us," said Laverie. "Her hard 
work has become a real contri­
buting factor for the team." 
Other Saint Mary's singles 
players who were victorious 
were Buffy Heinz winning (7-5, 
6-3) and Mary Turk (6-3, 6-2), 
both defeating players from 
DePauw. 
In doubles, Charlene Szajko 
and Mayer and teammates 
Turk and Schnell won their 
matches. 
"Both girls have had a lot of physical problems throughout the season but have showed a lot of determination and have never let themselves get down mentally," said Laverie. 
The duo of Heinz and Jennifer Block were defeated but gained points which helped the team to win the tournament. 


The Observer I Trey Reymond 

The district tournament 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team lost a tough match to Tri-State
marked the end of the Belles' 
CoUege over break. The Belles will host a six-team tournament this
fall season. 
weekend. 

Tough loss for SMC volleyball team 
By KATHY JENSEN losing in four games, 16-4, 10-15, 
Sports Writer 13-15, 6-15, was especially up­setting to the Belles, who fell Looking forward to home. to 13-6. That is what the Saint Mary's 
volleyball team is doing after "We suffered a tough loss,suffering a heartbreaking loss but we are looking forward to 
to Tri-State College October 15. 
rebounding and coming home 

Both teams were undefeated this weekend to our own tourn­
in the Northern Conference, so ament," Coach Sue Medley said. 
Junior Margaret Feldman, the Belles' team captain, re­corded 12 kills, freshman Katie Killilea had 9 kills, and junior Tammy Suth contributed 7. 

Sophomore Mary McCarthy displayed strong setting (24 for 24 with one ace) and freshman Colleen Feldman set 11 for 13, also with one ace. 
After another tough road game against Manchester, a conference opponent, the Belles will return home to host a six-team invitational on Oc­tober 30 and 31. 
"Some of the best teams in our division and in the state will be at this tournament,'' Medley said. "We are definitely up against some tough competi­jion." 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering  
presents its  Friday. Octoher .111. 2·1' p.m. Saturday. Octoher 31. 111-4 p.m. Palmer I louse-Chicago 17 East Monroe Street  
GTE EMERGING SCHOLAR LECTURE  FOR FUTURE MBAs  
DANIEL NOSENCHUCK (PRINCETON)  THESEARCHENDSHERE  
...at the MBA Forums where you can  
"NAVIER-STOKES COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE" 3:30p.m., Wednesday, 28 October in 356 Fitzpatrick Hall (A reception for Professor Nosenchuck will be held at 3:00p.m. in 365-A Fitzpatrick Hall)  Meet representatives from K5 of the country's leading graduate management "hools. Receive free the hooklets Tht• MilA and Ytm and 1-/nancia/ Aid fiu'l.v ji>r fiwm• MIIA.v. Purchase The Ojjicial Guide ji1r (i MAT Rel'ieu: 1111• Ojjicia/ Guitlt• to MBA Pmxrwm. and T111• Ojjicia/ Softu·art· j/1r GMAT Rt••·ieu·. Participate in three different workshops: The MBA and You and MBA Careers (concurr<·nt) Friday. 3 p.m .. 4:30p.m .. h p.m. Saturday. II a.m .. 12:311 p.m .. 2 p.m. Doctoral Programs Friday. 4:30p.m.: Saturday. 12:30 p.m. Call (K!KI) -l-lS-2.171 for workshop descriptions.  

Register for the MBA Forums and workshops at the door. The charge is $5 daily. 

------------~------~---­
~--~--~~----------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 28, 1987
page 14 

so.ccer team suffers first loss of season, 3-1. 
By PETE SKIKO seconds into the game, and credit for being an excellent "We can definitely play with in the middle of midterms when Sports Writer were never really able to get squad. those guys," said Grace. "They they played -they all had their back on track. The Pilots got "(The Pilots) are a heck of never really put us away be­accounting faces on," said The Notre Dame soccer team another goal later in the first a team," said Grace, in his cause we were always scrap­Grace. "They had seen that returned from the West Coast half before Bruce "Tiger" fourth year as the Irish mentor. ping. Tiger's goal made things DePaul had gotten beat 10-2, 8­after break with its first loss of McCourt was able to put the ''They beat Duke up there after interesting, but they 0, 9-0, and 11-1. They had vi­the year, a 3-1 decision at the Irish on the board midway Duke had won the national (Portland) were the better sions of school scoring records hands of an inspired Portland through the second half. Joe championship the year before. team." in their heads. Even though squad last Thursday. Holloway of Portland put the I give them a lot of credit, but DePaul, a considerably they lost, this game made Before the loss, the Irish ex­game out of reach by closing we were just a little too relaxed weaker opponent than DePaul's year. To hold us to tended their undefeated string the scoing shortly after going in. We took them (the Portland, gave then-unbeaten one goal was a great big deal to 14-0-1 by slipping past a McCourt's goal. Irish) up there to show them Notre Dame a scare by holding to them -and rightfully so. I pesky DePaul squad on Satur­the Great Northwest and they Notre Dame to just one goal guarantee they played their day, October 17th. Head Coach Dennis Grace went right out and became full­after being heavily scored upon best game of the year against
Against Portland, Notre was not terribly pleased with blown tourists. The boys just by much lesser teams earlier us. They had nothing to lose
Dame got off to a shaky start his team's attitude going into didn't have their game faces in the season. against us and they played like by giving up a goal just 37 the game, but gives Portland on." "You could tell the guys were it." 
Irish hit the big time at Wake Forest Inviitational 
By STEVE MEGARGEE barrass ourselves, but we lar dual meets have six singles match, 6-2, 6-1. and T-shirt, and the tourney in­Sports Writer didn't distinguish ourselves matches and three doubles "I'd have felt a lot better if cluded a pre-tournament press either," said first-year Irish matches. we'd won our matches, but I conference and a coat and tie 
The Notre Dame men's ten­coach Bob Bayliss. The Irish lost all their went into it knowing we were dinner. nis team had a nice time visit­Notre Dame tied with Illinois matches by 4-1 scores, falling in a little bit over our heads," "Ian Crookenden (the tennis ing the big time collegiate ten­for seventh place in the eight­to Wake Forest, Vanderbilt and said Bayliss. "But there were director at Wake Forest) went nis atmosphere at the Wake team tournament which fea­Northwestern. Individual win­some close individual matches out and got the best teams in Forest 4 Plus 1 Invitational on tured six potential Top 20 ners for Notre Dame were Dan and nobody shut us out." the country he could get. USC Oct. 17-18. teams for the spring season. Walsh, who beat his Wake For­The Irish received an un­backed out, and we took their 
But the final team results in­In an experimental time­est opponent, 6-4, 6-3, the usually enthusiastic welcome place in the tournament be­dicated that the Irish are not saving format, the Irish played doubles team of Mike Wallace to Wake Forest. Television cause I wanted our team to get yet ready to live in that type of three dual matches which in­and Dave Reiter in the Vander­cameras were rolling as the this kind of competition," said environment. cluded four singles matches bilt match, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4, and Irish got off the plane, each Bayliss. "They spared no ex­"What we didn't do was em-and one doubles-match. Wallace in the Northwestern player received a carry bag pense and really did it " 
Bowls 
continued from page 16 
The Sugar, Fiesta and Citrus bowl games each had represen­tatives at the Southern Cal game Saturday and are other possible New Year's Day sites. Scouts from the Gator, Liberty, Freedom, Hall of Fame, Peach, Sun and Bluebonnet bowls also were in the press box to observe the Irish. 
Absent from what Peach Bowl representative Harvey Robertson called 'the mecca' was a scout from the Aloha Bowl, site of Notre Dame's last postseason bowl game, and 27­20 loss to SMU, in 1984 under then-coach Gerry Faust. Rumor has it they were visiting the University of Akron. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
The team tumbled off cloud nine two days later with a frustrating 2-0 loss to the Uni­versity of Maryland-Baltimore County. "Our only disappoint­ment over break was Maryland," said Lindenfeld. "We had 39 shots on goal and never scored." 
Back on their home turf Sat­urday, Notre Dame regained enough form to beat Calvin 1-0 and revenge an annoying loss from last year. 
Marshall scored the lone goal three minutes into the first half on a play off a penalty corner. The corner was taken by Janet Budnick and stopped dead for Marshall's shot by McGlinn. The Irish were unable to score again despite taking 30 shots on Calvin's goal and having 7 more penalty corners. 
"We outplayed them with some excellent execution, but we should have scored more and we had some problems defensively," said a somewhat disappointed Lindenfeld. 
Currently sporting a 7-5-2 record, the Irish have several chances left to perform with the momentum they displayed over fall break. They travel to Springfield, Missouri at the end of this week to play Southwest Missouri on Friday and South­ern Illinois-Carbondale on Sun­day. 

Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 

10 -11:30 a.m.: Department of Modern and Classical Languages Workshop with Prof. Victor Brombert, Princeton University, 131 Decio. 
12: 10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30 
p.m.: Department of Civil Engineering Seminar Series "Inference and Influence of Structural Parameters in the Art of Violin Making," by Leonard Morse-Fortier, 303 Cushing. 

3:30 
p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering GTE Emerging Scholar Series Seminar "Navier-Stokes Computers," by Daniel Nosenchuck, Princeton University, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 


4:30 p.m.: Department of Chemistry Reilly lecture "Mixed-Metal Cluster Chemistry: Metal Fragment Addition Across Formal Metal-Metal Multiple­Bonded Species and its Isolobal Analogy with Organic Systems," by Lawrence Dahl, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m.: Presentation I Reception for all MBA students interested in career opportunities with General Mills Restaurants, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m.: AIESEC meeting for all students interested in international business, 220 Hayes-Healy. 
7:30p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Purdue, JACC. 
8 p.m.: SMC Music Department Faculty Recital, Rhonda May, SMC, oboe; Loretta Robinson, SMC, soprano; and James Howsmon, piano, and members of the South Bend Symphony, Little Theatre. 
8 p.m.: Scholastic (Notre Dame Student Magazine) public lecture "The Press and Privacy: A Conflict of Interest?" by Matthew Storin, 1964 graduate and former editor of the Chicago Sun-Times, Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Garden Croissant  Veal Parmesan  
Roast Turkey Breast  Beef Tacos  
French Bread Pizza  Vegetarian Chow Mein  
Eggrolls with Assorted Sauces  Deli Bar  

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. tqrdetalls. 
ACROSS 1 Canvas cover 5 Racetrack 9 Songbirds 
14 Site of Perry's 
win 15 Function 16 Be of use 17 Reptile 19 -Mldler 20 Copied 21 Made an 
equine sound 23 "Lohengrln" 
composer 26 USSR river 27 "What a good 
boy -1" 28 Spiritually 
revived 32 Equipment 35 Book: abbr. 36 Maxims 37 Actual being 38 Epochs 40 -de France 41 Small cut 42 VIshnu 
Incarnation 43 Peaks 46 Summer drink 47 Slovenly boor 48 Fantastic 49 Knowledge 50 Dozes 
momentarily 52 Most likable 54 Nazi security 
pollee 57 A Bancroft 58 Church 
feature 59 Reptile 64 Blockade 65 Certain horse 66 Unaccom­
panied 67 Peeled 68 Melody 69 Looked at 
closely 
DOWN 1 Private eye 2 Timetable 
abbr. 3 -de Oro 


4 Nut 5 Issued an 
edict 6 Nullify 7 Entirety 8 Dregs 9 Work hard 
10 Baseball stats 11 Reptile 12 Hawkish bird 13 Luge 18 "Norma" e.g. 22 Convent 
residents 23 Vacillates 24 Ethically 

neutral 25 Reptile 29 Scot. child 30 Flirtatious one 44 Leather 31 Della of song worker's job 33 Actors' lines, 45 Hurl 

at times 51 Challenged 34 Feel remorse 53 Desist 39 Destruction of 54 Breathe 
a kind laboriously 43 Tooth part 55 Essayist 
10/28/87 56 Rower's need 57 Actor Bates 60 Old card game 61 Doll e.g. 62 Corrlda shout 63 Serllng or Steiger 

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
In the absence of the striking union characters, Rloom County management officials will be temporarily providing the day's waggish entertainment. Today: Mr. Will .I. Knudson, Asst. Director IJf Accounting 10-lf  AHeM. t.OVC I~ THe ft€A:ii/NT INT£f?.VIIf.. ~TWeEN MEeTTN& II FJ€1/(!Tlfllt. &1/U 11Nf7 f715CIJVERING 5HE t/XJK5 t.lf<!  

Beernuts 
liSTEN TO 'THIS-AT TH£ AIR. FO~(£ 6AHC T/1[ ND. lEPRCOIIV.JN WAS AfrA(J(£[)
8Y S[V(/?.AL AIR. fO~C£ 
/CADETS 

Mark Williams 
Wll/lT !JO YOU [Xf(CT 
FROI1 611'15 mAINE~ TO P<Of BOHBS ON PECJft£.? 
\ 

''Well, down I go," 


-~------~----~---------~---------------~-----­
Sports
page 16 Wednesday, October 28, 1987 
Notre Dame runners in to form at lntercollegiates Women take Men place third at second; Indiana IC defeat USC 
By GREG GUFFEY By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer Sports Writer 
VVornen's cross country Like a heavyweight boxer coach Dan Ryan has his team waiting to throw his big left ready for the stretch run after hook, the Notre Dame men's a third-place finish at the In­cross-country team is gearing diana Intercollegiates over fall up for its knockout punch. break. The Irish harriers ran ex­
Indiana won the event with tremely well over the Fall 27 points, followed by Purdue Break and moved two steps in second and the Irish with 91. closer to the all-important Ball State and Indiana State, NCAA District IV Champion­two teams that fared better ships (Nov. 14). Notre Dame than the Irish last year, took must place in the top three in fourth and fifth. Notre Dame order to qualify for the NCAA did manage to defend its small Championships, which has school title, beating St. been the team's goal since Au­Joseph's by 24 points. gust. 
The men's cross-countJY team placed second at the Indiana Intercollegiate meet and is gearing up for the 
see GOAL, page 12see TITLE, page 12 District IV chamionships. Tim Sullivan has the stoJY at 
Field hockey wins two on road 
By KATIE CRONIN "The team played well, but First Team All-American who Sports Writer we missed JoAnne Marshall, dominated the play," com­absent from left back because mented Lindenfeld. 
Before you ask... Yes, the of LSATs, and we lost Benet The Irish played their best Notre Dame field hockey team DeBerry in the second half be­against Georgetown, winning did have good fall break. They cause of an injury," said Lin­the grudge match 3-0. Mindy went 2-1-1 on tour in VVashing­denfeld. Breen had a one-on-one score ton D.C. and returned horne to Notre Dame faced Catholic against their goalie in the last beat Calvin on Saturday. next with both Marshall and minutes of the first half and the 
"VVe didn't know what to ex­DeBerry back in the line-up gap was widened in the second pect from the D.C. teams, so and beat them 3-2 in another half with scores by DeBerry we just went out and played physical game played on a and Christine Gregory. En competitively. It wasn't them sloppy grass football field. route to victory, Gregory and chasing us around, it wasn't us After a scoreless first half, Breen traded assists and Notre chasing them around. They senior Annie McGlinn put the Dame took 33 shots on goal to were good games," said ball in the cage for the Irish 53 Georgetown's 7. reserve goalie Suzanne seconds into the second half. "VVe played phenomenally," VVaters. McGlinn scored again with an said Beetel. "It was the best 
The Irish played American assist from Mary VVagner at game I've ever seen. There was University first and battled to 5: 10. After Catholic's first goal no letdown of intensity in the a scoreless tie in a physical VV agner, showed the Irish de­entire game." grass game that went into two termination to win, scoring at "They played absolutely overtirnes. The Irish tried 11 22:35. The score was 3-1 until beautiful as a team. I've never shots on goal, American at­the last ten seconds of the game seen them play like that. tempted 14. Respectively they when Catholic scored on a Everything gelled. The offense had 5 and 8 penalty corners. penalty stroke. was great," praised Linden­Coach Jill Lindenfeld corn­"It was a hard game, very feld. mernded goalie M.J. Beetal for back-and-forth. VVe were the an outstanding game. better team, but they had one see IRISH, page 14 

The Observer I Bob Jones The Irish field hockey team travelled to Washington, D.C. and posted a 2-1-1 record over break. Katie Cronin details the trip at left. 
Bowl reps have eyes for the Irish 
It's corning soon to a stadium near you. Real near you. Like at the corner of Dorr and Juniper Roads. 
It's called the Bowl Bid Derby and in fact it has already started. On Saturday no less than 18 rep­resentatives from 12 postseason Bowl games carne to Notre Dame Stadium to watch the lOth-ranked Irish run past Southern Cal and improve their record to 5-l. They'll be here again this Saturday, and the two weekends after that. 
In case the bright suitcoats don't give them away, the bowl emblem patch on the coat's pocket will. 
VVhile all of these representatives would tell you that it is much too early for any commitments, 'tis the season for the bowl bid derby to heat up. Auto­matic bids to conference champions will be decided in the next few weeks as conference rivals do battle, and major independents like Florida State, Miami, Notre Dame and Syracuse (yes, Syracuse) are all vying for their moment in the sun on January 1. 
Or January 2, like last year's "dream game" of Penn State and Miami for the national champion­ship in the Fiesta Bowl. This coup d'etat over the traditional Big Four bowl games (Rose, Sugar, Cot­ton and Orange) gave rnunchkin bowls a gleam of hope to nab top contenders for the national title, and thus large television market shares, but not without forking over millions of dollars. 
So where does this put Notre Dame, which did not play in bowl games from 1925 (when a Rose Bowl win brou ht the Irish their first-ever national championship) to 1970 (when Texas beat Notre Dame in the Cotton Bowl for the No. 1 ranking)? 

As evidenced by a premature No.4 ranking a few weeks ago, national pollsters and bowl officials ap­pear just as ready for Notre Dame to regain its spot among the football elite as the Irish fans are. VVith the national attention Notre Dame football garners, television ratings and fan interest would be high for a 10-1, or even 9-2, Irish squad in a New Year's Day bowl. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 
Officials from the Cotton Bowl, where Notre Dame last secured a national championship in 1977, have said that they would even be interested if the Irish went 8-3, but probably would not invite any other team with a similiar mark. 
The 100th anniversary of Notre Dame football, leading Heisman candidate Tim Brown, and the charisma of head coach Lou Holtz all make the Irish a sought-after unit among bowl officials, as evidenced by the 18 men in bright coats and patches Saturday. 
So let's take a moment to peer into the crystal ball, which is anything but crystal clear. 
The Rose Bowl is out of course, reserved for the Big Ten and Pac-10, neither of which has a solid favorite to go to Pasadena, nor a true contender for the national title. 
The Orange Bowl could be this year's version of the Fiesta Bowl, bringing No. 1 and No.2 together for a championship clash. Oklahoma and Nebraska, which have both seemed peerless to date, are on course to crash head-on November 21, with the win­ner getting the Big 8's bid to the Orange Bowl and loser going to another major bowl. 
Should the Irish continue their winning ways against Navy, BC, Alabama and Penn State, the other spot in that Orange Bowl rnatchup would most likely be contingent on the winner of the Miami­Notre Dame game on November 28. Bowl bids will be officially extended November 21. 
VVith one bid committed to the winner of the South­west Conference, the Cotton Bowl could be looking at the Irish; it's just a matter if Notre Dame is looking back. The SVVC is struggling this year, and 3-3 Texas leads the conference thus far. Last week's AP Top 20 listed no teams from the most inves­tigated conference in football, the first time no Southwest Conference team appeared in the poll since 1967. 
see BOWLS, page 14 


