~------~~------------~---------------------------------------------------­
Bundle up
/ ACCENT: Rainmakers review 
A chance of snow showers today. Cold with the high near 
30. Partly cloudy tonight with a some flurries. Partly cloudy 

J VIEWPOINT: Calling upon the clergy 
• 

. 
' 
Back to the boards 
Kim Kohlhass, fifth-year architecture student, diligently works on her senior thesis. Arkies ar'*-once again working into the wee hours of the morning in efforts to complete their theses in time for Wenesday's 

October break may be moved 
By KENDRA MORRILL ~~· Copy Editor 
• The University is oonsider­
~ J . ·. ·. 
ing moving fall break to the week of Thanksgiving, but 
IJ 
r··· 
there is "not a lot of sentiment 
. . 
. in favor" of this idea said 
• Daniel Winicur, dean of admin­istration and registrar. 
-'T 

---
The Academic Council of the University met Wednesday
-·----­
~ .......,___......... 
The Observeli Suzanne Poch 
deadline. The senior thesis is one of the most im­portant projects assigned to an architecture student during his or her years at Notre Dame. 
night to discuss the University calendar, said Winicur. 
"There are no plans what­soever to get rid of fall break," said Winicur, but 'there is the possibility of moving it. "Noth­ing dramatic" happened at the meeting Wednesday night, he added. 
The council is also consider­ing having the semester begin later, said Winicur. "Lots of is­sues are involved," he said. The main problem is that the semester begins too early, and students cannot work as long as they may need to during the summer, according to Winicur. 
Another option is to start the fall semester later, he said, which would also move final ex­ams to later in the year. 
If fall break was moved, Winicur said, the change would not take place next fall because the 1988-89 school year calen­dar already has been estab­lished. The change would occur "the year after next at the soonest," he said. 
Students or faculty members as a whole do not have a say in the matter of changing fall break, said Winicur, but they do have representatives on the Academic Council. "It is up to the members (of the council) to bring this up to the (student and faculty) bodies," he said. 
Dan Gerlach, one of the stu­dent members of the council, said he did not think October break should be moved. 
''The longest time I spent (at Notre Dame) was August to Oc­tober of my freshman year,'' said .Gerlach. He said, " it is really good for freshman to go home" in October because of the stresses of adjusting to classes, roommates and a new environment. 
Students are under a lot of pressure, and it's important to ease that tension, said Gerlach. He added that one year Notre Dame did not have October break and "things got really stressful." 
The majority of the Aca­demic Council thinks fall break 
see BREAK, page 6 

Professor reviews superpower summit, new treaty 
By JOHN FAILOR: News Staff 
The upcoming summit be­tween the United States and the Soviet Union and the signing of a new arms treaty on M<lnday can be expected "to have a pos­itive on relations between the superpowers," according to Professor George Brinkley, director of the program of So­ning of a treaty alone is a major step." Brinkley said the sum­mit will allow Reagan and Gor­bachev to discuss other issues such as the reduction of long range strategic weapons and the resolution of regional con­flicts. 
viet  and  Eastern  European  
Studies.  
Brinkley stated,  "The  sig­ 

The signing of the treaty will increase understanding be­tween the superpowers, put not necessarily good will, since "Gorbachev is very much a Communist and is striving to become a more effective Com­munist." 
Although the Soviets have a large conventional superiority in Europe, Brinkley said the elimination of intermediate range missles will improve se­curity. 
"The intermediate range missles are useless weapons and Gorbachev has indicated his willingness to reduce Rus­sia's conventional forces in Europe." Brinkley also ack­nowledges that the United 
One in four ND blacks won't finish 
ByKIHBERLYTRENNER Senior Staff Reporter 
One out of every four black students entering Notre Dame as a freshman does not graduate, said Derek Gandy, admissions counselor. 
This figure compares with an attrition rate of approximately 10 percent for the non-black segment of students entering as freshmen. 
"Some (black students) leave because they flunk out, others because they can't han­dle the pressure," said Roc­helle Holder, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council. "Some students don't feel com­fortable with the environment, especially if they come from a predominantly black area,'' she said. 
Holder said some black stu­dents have difficulties adjust­ing at Notre Dame because they do not. come from the top of their high school class or feel inadequately prepared for the heavy workload. The added pressure of being a black stu­dent on a predominantly white campus also makes things more difficult, she said. 
"The (black students') satis­faction with their experience at Notre Dame isn't necessarily the best,'' said Kenneth Dur­gans, director of minortity stu­dent affairs. "Many go for the name," he said. 
"The atmosphere (here) in general is not conducive to the acceptance of others," said Durgans. "Students experi­ence a lot of stress while they are here," he said. They must deal with stereotypes about being on financial aid and 
see MINORITY, page 6 
States has submarines in Europe, and England and France have missles in Europe to counter the Soviet troops. 
Brinkley said he thinks Sen­ate approval will be gained despite likely protest from con­servative Senators who feel Russia cannot be trusted to fol­low the terms of the treaty. Brinkley also said he thinks the public will support the treaty. According to Brinkley, it will be easier to make sure that the terms of the treaty since a whole class of weapons will be eliminated. 
Brinkley said Gorbachev's visit to the U.S. will be.success­ful and will maintain the sup­port of the American people be­cause "he is a very effective leader and always well prepared." Brinkley men­tioned, however, that Jewish organizations will protest Gor­bachev's visit in support of increased Jewish emigration 

Cotton Bowl to raise $2.2 M for NO athletics 
. 

By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
Notre Dame can expect to receive approximately $2.2 million for participating in the Cotton Bowl. All of this revenue, minus expenses, will go directly into the Uni­versity's athletic endow­ment, according to Univer­sity Vice President Father William Beauchamp. 
Based upon past bowl ex­periences, "Our expenses lion, but I don't have an ex­act figure," he said. 

Expenses would include transportation, food, and hotel accomodations for the players, guests of the Uni­versity, and the Notre Dame Marching Band, as well as funds for official functions related to the Cotton Bowl. 
The remaining $1 million will go into the athletic en­dowment, Beauchamp said. University policy is any 
see BOWL a e 6 


---~~----~---------~ 
Friday, December 4, 1987 
page 2 The Observer 



A hi-tech Christmas makes wacky wishes real
In Brief The Board ofTrustees announced Dec. 2 that Donald Kelly of Chicago and Ray Siegfried of Tulsa have been elected to memberships on the 47-person Board. Kelly is chairman and chief executive officer of E-ll Holdings, Inc. Siegfried is chairman and CEO of NORDAM, an aerospace and defense manufacturer. Siegfried is a 1965 alumnus of Notre Dame. -The Observer Of Interest Any sophomore interested in working on the 1988 Junior Parents Weekend can pick up an application for the Sophomore Committee starting today at 4 p.m. in the office of Student Activities, 3rd floor LaFortune. All ap­plications must be returned to Student Activities by Friday, Dec. 11 at 5 p.m. -The Observfr Emcee tryouts for the BCAF Fashion Show will be held in Washington Hall on Dec. 6 at 7:30p.m. -The Ob­server Toys For Tots campaign, sponsored by the Semper Fi Society (Marine ROTC) will be accepting donations of money or toys at Senior Bar and Theodore's today. Toys For Tots collects or buys toys and gives them to needy children for Christmas. The Semper Fi campaign will give its toys to the needy children of Logan Center. -The Ob­server A liturgical rite will mark the entram~e into the Catechumenate of students who are becoming Catholic this Sunday, Dec. 6 at the 12:15 p.m. liturgy at Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer The Great Hunger Clean-Up will have a meeting on Sunday ,Dec. 6 at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Bill Hoogterp, the innovator of the Clean-Up, will discuss the project and its objectives. -The Observer An International Student Christmas Reception will be held in the Library Auditorium on Sunday, Dec. 6 at 2 p.m. All international students and their host families are invited. -The Observer A videotape on the procedures for the new Honor Code will be shown simultaneously in all the dorms on Sunday evening at 8 p.m. on Dec. 6. The presentation is designed for Freshmen. -The Observer The second Sunday of Advent will be celebrated with a Spanish liturgy at 4 p.m. in Farley chapel. The Mass will be followed by a taco dinner in the Breen-Philips puzzle room. -The Observer Christmas music will be presented in concert Sunday, Dec. 6 by the Notre Dame Department of Music at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer Amnesty International will be collecting pledges and sponsors during lunch and dinner today for its Write­a-thon on Monday, Dec. 7 at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. Dona­tions will go to assist Amnesty's fight for Human Rights. Letters will be sent to help prisoners in South Africa and Bulgaria. -The Observer Economist Dr. Imad Hage and David Epperly of the American Lebanese League will be speaking on the cur­rent situation in Lebanon on Sunday, Dec. 6 at 6 p.m. in the Grace Hall pit. A Lebanese dinner will follow. -The Observer  
Design Editor ................... Matt Breslin Accent Copy Editor Elizabeth Cornwell Design Assistant ............... Alison Cocks Accent Layout... . ......... Michelle Dall Typesetters ........ Tom Elliott Typists................. . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Haynes News Editors ..................... Cathy Stacy ND Day Editor ................... Greg Lucas Copy Editor ........................ Liz Panzica SMC Day Editor .......... Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen Photographer ............ Suzanne Poch Viewpoint Copy Editor... .. Matt Guye Layout Staff.......... . .......... Luis Munoz Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Julie Ryan De 01111nw (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dwilla cum ud vacation periods. ne o..ner is published by the students of the Univcnity of Noue Dame ud Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per yeu (US per IICIIIelter) by writina ne o..ner, P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46SS6. ne Ollllnw ila--of ne ~... "-· All reproduction riplls are ~­ 


r----~-----·.-.c--·-.-.c--------------~·---, 
II  CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS WE HAVE CLIENTS SEEKING QUALIFIED  II  
I  INDIVIDUALS WITH LANGUAGE AND AREA  I  
1  EXPERTISE REGARDING FOREIGN MARKETS  I  
- PART-TIME AND AVAILABLE.  FULL-TIME ASSIGNMENTS  II  
FOREIGN  NATIONALS  WITH  ADVANCED  t  
DEGREES FROM  AMERICAN  UNIVERSITIES  i  
ACCEPTED  AS  VISA RESTRICTIONS  
WILL NOT AFFECT CERTAIN PROJECTS. EXPERTISE IN TECHNICAL, ECONOMIC, OR SCIENTIFIC FIELDS IS REQUIRED.  I I I  

What do you want for Christmas, Katie? 
"A dolphin, a baby sister and an ice skating rink in the back yard" was my standard reply from the time I was five to about twelve years old. 
I still don't know why Santa didn't deliver. I was always a good girl (at least not-naughty near Christmas) and besides, I didn't ask for Flipper, I said a dolphin. And he could live in the skating rink once it melted in the warm weather. 
Ridiculous you think? Well, if only we were kids today! My requests don't even compare to what's on the market this year. 
One of the hottest selling toys this Christmas season is a hi-tech gun that looks like a spaces­hip and shoots at cartoon characters. Bid deal, you say? Right, but these characters shoot back. This is really amazing. Kids can watch the Captain Power television cartoon and fire visible beems of light from their "vehicles" and score "hits" and are "hit" back by the cartoon characters. How they do this, I don't know. I wonder if little kids would find this a bit perplex­ing? How do the little men get in the television anyway? 
Mr. Gameshow is another amazing toy. For the low price of $99.99, you can learn how to play game shows from an animated wisecrack­ing "host," closely resembling Bob Barker. This little plastic guy remembers your name, tells jokes and even manages your money. All you have to do is push a cassette tape in his stomach. 
And speaking of wisecrackers, Christmas would not be complete without the obnoxious talking Alf. For a mere $69.99, you can listen Alf say such intelligent phrases as "I'm hungry. Where's the cat?" Just what every mother needs to hear all day long. · 
So you thought my request for a baby sister was out of line? Nowadays, I could just go to the store and buy one. "Julie" advertised as "The World's Most Intelligent Talking Doll," selling at $99.99, can talk and even read. But who wants this competion? "She's the friendliest and brightest little girl on Jasmine Street. She's everything you could want in a best friend -she's funny, loyal and always ready to turn the neighborhood upside down." 
Why even play with the neighbors or make any friends of your own when you can buy one of these? I'll stick with the elderly "Mrs. Beas­ly. '' At least we were not in a popularity contest and she never talked back when I told her my secrets. Julie's friend, "Jill, "selling at $139.99, claims, "I'm a lot like you, my arms move as I speak, my mouth moves, and I look around and even blink." Thanks Jill, but there's a little
00000000000000 ,_ 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR SKI ORGANIZATION. 
SPECIAL OUTDOOR 
LEISURE OPPORTUNITIES. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
CALL: 289-9216 ASK FOR LISA 
8 


ND '61 
ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 46635 
Katie Kearney 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
more to us than blinking and moving our heads. 
Where did Light Bright, G.I. Joe and Shrinky Dinks disappear to? And have you seen Barbie lately? Maybe you didn't recognize her. She's got her own band and they've even cut a record, no joke! Barbie and the Rockers is a scary group dressed in silver and neon jumpsuits featuring Barbie's cheesy boyfriend Ken (his hair is as long as Barbie's now) and her little sister Skipper. And you can forget the Barbie Townhouse. She's moved into the Rockin' House Party, it has a Hot Rockin' Stage Set complete with keyboards and T.V. monitors, a Rockin' Pool Party and even a Fun Hut in Tahiti with a talking Parrot. Oh, and she drives a red Fer­rari and wears Ocar de la Renta dresses. 
And those plastic green army men? They've been overthrown by ReMan-Master of the Uni­verse, Voltron-Defender of the Universe and the rest of their barbaric buddies. 
It's too bad the toy world has gone haywire just when I've grown up. Now that I'm mature, though, my Christmas list is a little more real­istic. I no longer want the dolphin. I'm too tired to skate, and I know I'll never get a baby sister so go ahead, ask me again. 
What do you want for Christmas, Katie? 
"Oh, nothing big this year, just a carerer, at least a $50,000 starting salary and a condo on Michigan Ave." 
Metll'y Christmas Everyone. .. 
SEND RESUME, INCLUDING TELEPHONE NUMBER TO: I SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE I EXECUTIVE SEARCH DIVISION I 
P.O. BOX A-3629 

I 
.. -__ ---------~I£A~~.!1..~§22_____________.J 

~----------~ -­
~---~~-----------------------------------­

ND-Hammes Bookstore-2nd Floor CHRISTMAS BOOK SPECIALS 
Starting Saturday December 5th through December 23rd. 20°/o Discount on all titles listed on The Publishers Weekly's Best Sellers List. 1Oo/o Discount on all Hardbound Trade Books. 
Ideal Lasting Gifts. Give a book for Christmas. 

Best wishes, Joe Doyle 
Joseph Doyle autographs a copy of his book "Fighting Irish: A Century of Notre Dame Football" at the bookstore Thursday.
•:w... ~:w... •:w... ~·il.~ w:a;a~~P~ill0i~=a:3~~~~~~~.. 




SENIORSENIORSENIOR., , 
" 

CHRISTMAS FORMAL FRIDAY DEC 4th 

=· :SENIORSENIORSENIO 
Mitchells Club $15 per couple 
9-2 a.m. 
* Tickets on sale Fri. 2-4 in class office. 
ND drug to fight heart attacks 
By NATASHA WILSON Staff Reporter 
Researchers from Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory have developed a new chemical for dissovling blood clots that has been heralded as the new wonder drug for heart attacks. Tissue plasminogen activator (TPA), an enzyme naturally present in the body, has been tested on the blood clots of seven species of animals as well as those of humans. 
"TPA is very important as a rescue agent for people who have developed blood clots in 
vital organs, such as the heart, lungs, brain and also in the vas­cular system of the legs," said 
Morris Pollard, Lobund direc­tor. 
Pollard said he has spent the last five years developing cells in laboratory rats which areca­pable of producing a high level of TPA. 
The Food and Drug Admin­istration approved two weeks ago a different recombinant type TPA, produced through genetic engineering tech­niques. 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 

Using recombinant DNA techniques, biologists have cloned the TPA gene to produce the drug in quantity. 
This recombinant TPA, made by Genentech Inc., has been deemed by much of the medical community, as the best available treatment for heart attacks due to blood clots. 
Such clots, scientists believe, cause 85 percent of heart at­tacks. 
Pollard said he and his re­search staff have renewed their interest in TPA studied at Notre Dame "because of the possibility that it might provide an alternative to the recom­binant type TPA. This (the Lobund TPA) is a natural form of TPA which has along with it other agents that might con­tribute to the clot dissolving ef­fect." 
He said that to his knowledge the Lobund Lab is the sole developer of the natural TPA. 
"We are continuing our studies on it (TPA) to deter­mine if it has any toxic side ef­fects, Pollard said." Thus far they have found no evidence of adverse side effects in lab 
are better with Your Group and 
animals, he said. TPA is a unique compound because once injected it attacks only clots and not normal blood com­pounds, Pollard added. 
V. V. Kakkar, a British au­thority on blood clotting, visited the Lobund Lab last month to study the TPA. Pol­lard said Kakkar indicated "some limitations to its useful­ness." Kakkar took samples of the TPA to England and is pres­ently testing it in a major blood coagulation center. Pollard said he expects the British experts to find the limitations and correct them. 
Pollard said the Lobund TPA will not be marketed for human use for many years. He ex­plained that all of the past and present experimentation on the agent has been on lab animals. "If the animal experiments are successful, then we're going to have to ge permission (from the FDA) to use it on humans." 
"We, in the meantime, have a patent that has been ap­proved by the U.S. patent office for the production of TPA." Pollard received the patent last May and he promptly assigned it to American Biogenetic Sciences Inc., which has a col­laborative biotechnology ven­ture with Notre Dame. 
**FREE GIFT WRAPPING 
p------~-----------~---~-­
page 4 Friday, December 4, 1987
The Observer 
The Grand Opening Celebration Continues At Mishawaka's One And Only Peaches! Vniv. Park• Mall •N Interstate 80/90 (U lt1d ian ~ (tl • eAidgeL..~ croc P\aza 5784 Qrepe Rd. 'nclian Ridge P\aUt Mon-Sat 10am, 10pm Sun 11am-7pm (219) 271-09&6 Now thru Saturday. -----­----­SPECIAL COUPON OFFERMAXELL XLII 90 Audio Tape 10-Pack WILD CARD$J79 _/~ COUPON Save on your favorite music at Peaches! Choose from Michael Jackson, Madonna, George Harrison and more. Per Tape in 10-Pack. Total 10-Pack price $17.90. D 14.99-16.99 Series Compact Discs $11.99 Includes FREE D 9.49 Series CasseHes oncl LP's $5.49 XLII-S 90 D 9.99 Series CasseHes and LP's $5.99 recording tape. Customer must present coupon. Cannot be used in conjunction with any other offer or coupon. Limit 3. Expires 12/5/87. ----------------------------­Per Tape in 2-Pack. Per Tape in 10-Pack. Total 2-Pack price $6.98. Totai10-Pack price $7.90. VHS Only. The perfect tape for all your recording needs. Stock up nowIncludes one Standard while the savings are hot!Grade and one High Grade. Sale Prices Good Thru 12/5/87. MUSIC&VIDEO Where There's Always A Sale Mas Alllerican bpress .­Discover IICCepted.  

Irish ambassador speaks at ND 
By PATTI WEED News Staff 
Peter Gunning, the Consul General of Ireland, spoke Thursday on the economy, foreign policy and internal con­filicts in Ireland since the 1960's. 
Inflation and the birth rate in Ireland have decreased, but unemployment has risen from 5 to 20 percent, Gunning said. 
The present economic situa­tion involves an inbalance in taxation between the rural and urban inhabitants, he said. The rural area is characterized by lighter taxes because its in­habitants are mainly farmers contributing directly to the na­tiona! wealth. Their standard of living has improved to a great extent, farm sizes are growing, and the government purchases surplus goods. The rural sector has also received funds from European nations to produce more milk, butter and beef. 
The urban sector, however, is paying much higher taxes, according to Gunning. However, the high taxes are necessary for free education, health care and modern road systems. Even though the ur­ban sector pays higher taxes, the rural sector states that they are not providing enough raw materials to the wealth of the nation. 

{-{. {-{-.(_ {-.(;;. 

Ireland is beginning to in­crease its participation in foreign affairs. During World War II, Ireland remained neutral and did not join NATO. In 1955 they joined the United Nations. Presently they have soldiers in Lebanon to help resolve the conflict. 
The government has also been offering incentives for foreign investments in the Ireland economy, Gunning said. 
Gunning also gave a brief outline of recent conflicts in Irish history. He said that in the 1960's civil rights riots and protests shook Northern Ireland. That area today is comprised of mainly Anglo­Saxon Protestants who want to be recognized as a nation inde­pendent from the Republic of Ireland, the majority of which is Roman Catholic. The emer­
gence of the Irish Republcan Shennanigans choreographer, Melissa Caffarelli, and her partner Army increased the unrest in rehearse for their Christmas show. It will be held tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the North. Washington Hall. 

SMC honors business faculty 
By KATIE KEARNY Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Business 
Administration and Economics 
department honored four of its 
faculty members with an infor­
mal potluck luncheon in 
Madeleva Hall Thursday. 
Lynne Wright was recog­
nized as the first Saint Mary's 
graduate to become a professor 
in the business department. 
Wright, a South Bend native 
and 1982 graduate, will teach 
three accounting classes next 
semester. 
"I believe teaching at Saint 
Mary's will be a great experi­
ence and will allow me to give students a good insight on the transition from college to the business world," Wright said. "I can provide students with that insigh't by having gone through it so recently." 
Wright, a certified public ac­countant, said she believes her Saint Mary's education pro­vided her with an "advantage in the business world" because the issues business women encounter were already ad­dressed in the Saint Mary's classrooms. "Hopefully I can provide my students with that same experience," Wright added. 
The department also recog­nized retiring accounting 
~0, 







(j~ ~~ 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
MUSEUM SHOP 
on the campus christmas and greeting cards
* 

glass christmas ornaments
* 

elegant silk scarves
* 

handwoven articles
* 

hand-crafted pottery
* 

calendars and address books
* 

tote bags
* 

chagall sweatshirts and Klee t-shirts
* 

* posters, books and many more 
OPEN HOUSE, Saturday, December 5, 1987 20% discount that day only 
HOURS Tuesday-Saturday 10am-4pm Sunday lam-4pm 
'{ 
professors, .were also honored 

THE EMPORIUM RESTAURANT 
is hiring 
bus help, food servers and experienced kitchen help. Flexible hours. 121 South Niles Avenue 
234-9000 & ask for John 
teacher and CPA, Robert San­ford, who will end his seven year teaching career at the end of the semester. Sanford, a Notre Dame graduate and former cheerleader, was in private practice prior to teach­ing. 
"I was attracted to teaching at Saint Mary's because my wife is a Saint Mary's graduate," Sanford said. "I found the Saint Mary's stu­dents to be an interesting and alert group and I enjoyed working with them very much." 
Joe Miller and his son Jim Miller, Saint Mary's adjunct 
but could not be present at the luncheon. Joe Miller, a leading South Bend tax expert, lawyer, and CPA in South Bend will retire at the end of the semes­ter according to William Shan­non, acting chairman of the business and economics. 
Joe Kernan, South Bend mayor elect, made a brief stop at the luncheon after speaking to a business communications class on the communication of 

Friday, December 4, 1987
page 6 The Observer 

Minority 
continued from page 1 

teachers giving them breaks, he said. 
Academically, black stu­dents generally don't do as well as the rest of their class. Few graduate in the upper percen­tile of their class, Durgans said. 
Holder said several steps can be taken to overcome the attri­tion rate among black students. The administration needs to be more open and understanding, said Holder. She also cited a need for events which are open to everyone. Although they say they are open to everyone, they don't always have events which are appealing to blacks and other minorities, she said. 
Tutors are available to all 

Break 
continued from page 1 

should be left as it is, according 
to Gerlach. He said the student •--......-------------------•
members of the council are 
unanimously in favor of the Oc­tober break. 
Winicur said Saint Mary's would not be affected by any decision of the Academic Coun­cil unless it chose to follow the same break policy. Saint Mary's is "not involved in dis­cussions of the Academic Coun­cil, which is a governing body for Notre Dame only," he said. 
This year's extended Thanksgiving break -no classes were held on the Wednesday that is usually a half-day -is not related to the issue of moving fall break, said Winicur. 
The 1987-88 calendar had already been determined before the issue of changing Oc­tober break came up, Winicur said. 
Join The Observer 

$49.00 per room + tax
1 frozenyoJ!urt 1 
I thattasteSlike 1 
* Closest Hotel to Cotton Bowl

1 icecre&In. 1 

* Transportation Available to Game



IGRAND OPENINGI 
* Complimentary Parking 
I Try French Vanilla. Apple Pie. C'hoco-1 
* Indoor Heated Pool
I late.Strawberrv. Peach. Peanut Butter 
1
I Fudge and more. Nine flavors daily. I Our frozen yogurt is fresh & creamy. 
* Skyview Cafe & Lounge
I made exclusively by our own dairy. 1 
* Make your reservations now while
I I Can't Believe It's I 
rooms are still available
I YOGURT! I
I Frozen Yogurt Stores I I I
I 1635 Edison Mon-Sat I1 South Bend, IN 46637 11 am-11 pm I 271-954P Sunday I 

(214) 421-1083

I Walking distance from Notre Dame 11 am-7pm 
1011 S. Akard, Dallas, Texas 7 5 215 1-800-492-9510 1-800-527-7606
I Buy 1Get 1Free-small or medium I 
in Texas out of TexasI Limit 1with cou:hnc:~;~;. Dec. 24, 1987 I \ () 1986. I Can't Believe It's Yogurt. Inc. 
J
... _____________, 
~-------­
1 
I I I I I I 

black students from the time they arrive as freshmen, said Holder. She sees this as helpful in overcoming the academic problems which some black students have. 
Kevin Rooney, director of ad­missions, said that the admis­sions department is laying out a plan for increasing the num­her of minorities at Notre Dame. "We are trying to make the environment friendlier for students," said Rooney. He also said they are trying to pro­vide (minorities) with a social environment and educate stu­dents from non-minority back­grounds to make them more receptive to other cultures. 
"We are trying to better the situation by having more num­hers here which will expose stu­dents to different types of people and encourage their 
He cited several reasons for miss the half-day; the half-day giving students the extra day is "not fair" to those who have of break: some students have classes in the morning and not to travel and cannot make their in the afternoon, or to those trips in a half-day; students who have classes in the after­may "take off anyway" and noon and not in the morning. 
GIVE THE GIFT OF A SUNTAN! 
G itt certificates Available 
Specials: 
Bed visits for $39.00 

5 Booth visits for $12.50 
Combo of 3 Bed & 3 Booth for $19.50 
2n-1o26 ~ JMSPLAZA 
1 Smile... I 
growth," said Durgans. 

Minorities represent 11 per­cent of this year's freshmen class, the largest amount ever. Of the 218 black students who applied, 156 were accepted and 77 actually enrolled .. "We did a better job of on-campus recruiting," said Durgans. "Minority student weekend was very successful," he said. 
Durgans also cited the in­crease of women at Notre Dame as one of the reasons for the increase in minorities. "You are more likely to see black females than males in college enrollment," he said. 
The efforts of both current (black) students and minority alumni have also caused this increase. "Minority alumni have been very instrumental in (increasing) the minorities at Notre Dame," said Durgans. 
4609 GrQe U Mlllla...U 

TAN~HAWAIIAN 
·soUTH OF UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
solen


I I I I I I I 


Bowl 

continued from page 1 
profit made on the bowls goes into the athletic endowment, he said. 
Policy concerning bowl rev­enue is made by University of­ficers. Beauchamp said he did not anticipate a change in the policy. The policy also applies to revenue generated by any NCAA post-season tourna­ments. 
The athletic endowment cur­rently stands at approximately $6 million. The $1 million from the Cotton Bowl would be in­vested by the University with the rest of the athletic endow­ment and its earnings used for the athletic program if ticket sales and TV!Radio earnings money in a budget," said Beau­champ. "That's why the money from the bowls gets put into an endowment for the future." 
the  University  athletic  pro­ 
gram.  
"You  never  include  bowl  

"(The endowment) is not large enough and we have to build it up," said Beauchamp. "Our total athletic program is self-sufficient and by that mean our whole athletic pro­gram," including all varsity and non-varsity sports. 
The University will most likely receive the money in Jan­uary. "I imagine there's a settlement check, but I don't know how they pay it." said Beauchamp. 
At that time, the money would be placed in the athletic endowment, in accordance 
didn't cover the overa_~l.:,l.;.cl.osiiitillioilf-i.iw.iiiit;;;h;.,c:,::urrent policy. 

Tonight 

Campus DJ's Bryan Rao Rick Reuter 
9:00-2:00 

DJ's Greg Harris Tom Sloane 
Sunday 12:00-6:00 
Hot Dogs & Chili Dogs!! only $2.00 for all you can eat. 
This is the last weekend we will be open until after break. Thank you to everyone who helped to make this semester such a success!! 
BOWL 



---------------~-~-­



Viewpoint

Friday, Oecember 4, 1987 
page 7 

A more active role needed from bishops 
The informed and informative panel who discussed the Synod on the Laity on Nov. 10, criticized the Synod for dropping all the women's issues. But then the panel undercut their own criticism by buying the Synod's argu­ment that those women's issues were only questions of internal structure and couldn't compare in weight with the great evils in the world crying out for justice. But that particular structural injustice in the Church --treating wo­men as inferiors and implying that it is God's idea--contradicts anything the Church can say to the world about equality and justice. Jesus told us what to do when we recognize in ourselves some evil we are challenging in an­other: "Hypocrite! Take the plank out of your own eye first, and then you will see clearly enough to take the splinter out of your brother's eye" (Mt. 7:5). 
Julian Pleasants 

guest column 
The panel also asked the bishops for more forming and inspiring of the laity for the lay role in the world, but then let the bishops get away with still ex­cluding half the Church from the euc­haristic ministry that the laity need for getting them stirred to action. Must the Church face this formidable world half blind, half lame, and with one hand tied behind its back? The Synod didn't have 
the courage to advise the Pope on this question. ~ 
It's time for individual bishops to reclaim some of the freedom, power, and responsibility they have as bishopi, rather than merely advise the Pope and then wait for him to decide everything for everybody at once. The laity began reclaiming their own freedom and re­sponsibility as baptized Christians in 1964, when they discovered they were being bound to unity for the sake of unity and obedience for the sake of obedience, not unity and obedience for the sake of some worthy goal which re­quired them. 
Pope Paul VI let the cat out of the bag when he announced a papal com­mission would advise him about possi­ble changes in the previous papal posi­tion on birth control. The very fact that he would reconsider the views of pre­vious Popes showed that it was not a question of infallible truth. It was not a teaching at all, but a ruling. Why was he going to consider a new ruling? On June 23, 1964, he told the College of Car­dinals: "In a subject of such serious­ness, it certainly seems that Catholics want to follow a single law, such as the Church authoritatively proposes, and it therefore seems opportune to recom­mend that no one should, for the time being, take it upon himself to pronounce himself in terms differing from the norm in force." 
Evidently he was planning to bind everyone to his eventual ruling because it seemed to him that Catholics wanted it that way, whether the ruling was right or wrong. American Catholics had news for him: we did not want any bin­ding rulings in an area in which the hierarchy might not know as much as we did. We would listen, but we would make up our own minds and con­sciences. 
From that announcement on, it didn't matter much to us what side the new ruling came down on, but we knew it did matter a great deal to less theologi­cally educated peoples and we lobbied for change, without success. It is pain­ful to hear Pope John Paul II's sincere expressions of sympathy for the poor in Latin America when his intran­sigence on birth control is partly responsibe for their poverty, and for the suffering of women ground between the machismo of their husbands and the poverty of their country. 
That was an area in which we lay people could begin acting for ourselves to right a structural wrong in the Church. But there are actions we can­nont take for ourselves. We need indi­vidual bishops who will judge for them­selves another ruling in the Church -­refusal to open up the priesthood to wo­men --and act accordingly. Bishops have the power of ordination. Will some of them dare to use it? They would have far more to lose than we"laity ever do. On the Pope's recent visit, he hinted that the sacraments should be denied to those who challenge his position on 



P.O. Box Q 

Generous donations helped many needy 
Dear Editor: 
The World Hunger Coalition would like to thank you for your recent dona­tions to our Thanksgiving Basket Pro­gram. We collected over one thousand dollars which we then used to provide turkeys, stuffing, vegetables, pies and other goods in baskets given to needy families in all areas of South Bend. Ser­ving 29 families in all, through your help we were able to help over 135 in­dividuals to celebrate the Thanksgiving season. 
We would like to thank you for making the World Hunger Coalition Thanksgiving Basket Program a. suc­cess once again. · 
DoonesbiJry 
We hope that you enjoyed your Thanksgiving holiday, and we wish you a very Merry Christmas. 
Thanks again. 
Ron Burkhart The World Hunger Coalition Dec. 2, 1987 
Carter years worse than Reagan's 
Dear Editor: 
We are saddened to think that the Dec. 1 column written by fellow Notre Dame students could be solely com­prised of vicious and slanderous name­calling instead~ of arguments based on facts. The co-leaders of the College Democrats at Notre Dame obviously did not do their homework before writing their article. 
While they maintain that, "We blew it first by electing Ronald Reagan in 1980... " let's take a look at the state of the country prior to Mr. Reagan, under the Democratic leadership of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. We were experiencing double-digit inflation and unemployment with interest rates hovering near 20 percent. Our country had been completely embarrassed for 444 days while our embassy delgates were held hostage in Iran. If this is what the College Democrats want us to believe a world of reality should look like, then we would certainly prefer to live in what they call Ronald Reagan's "fantasy land." Since Reagan has been in office, inflation and unemployment have dropped to just over 3 percent and 6 percent respectively, while interest 
Garry Trudeau 

birth control. But he knows that would be unenforceable. A recalcitrant bis­hop, however, can be stripped of his office and his career. Will any of them risk this personal loss· to change the ruling that has stripped thousands of women of potential priestly vocations? 
Other rites within the Roman Church have had married priests. Why couldn't some dioceses have women priests? If at the same time other dioceses did not have wvmen priests, it would at least be clear that it's not because there's something lacking in women. From 50 years of experiencing liturgical innova­tions here at Notre Dame and at nearby Little Flower parish, innovations even­tually made official after Vatican II, I'm convinced that the hierarchy secretly hopes some daring soul(s) will experiment with the new before it is officially permitted. If it fails, the hierarchy still looks good. If it succeeds, the hierarchy will have some concrete results to guide its future di­rections. 
Senator Eugene McCarthy was ND's Senior Class Fellow after' he had stuck his neck out on U.S. involvement in Vietnam. He told the class: we expect soldiers, policemen, firemen and medics to risk their lives for us, but we never expect a politician to risk his career for us. I'm daring to hope that in these days ecclesiastical statesmen can be an exception. Julian R. Pleasants is an associate pro­fessor of Biological Sciences, emeritus. 
rates are at nine percent. And as for the stock market, even with the October crash, the Dow Jones is still approxi­mately 1000 points higher than it was under Carter. Certainly, mistakes have been made during Reagan's adminis­tration (i.e. the Iran-Contra Affair and the budget deficit). But the overall state of the country is much better than it was under Democratic leadership. 
Now that the facts have been pre­sented, we hope you will join us in voting for the experienced and capable leadership of George Bush for Presi­dent in 1988. This will insure a 
prosperous  and  safe  future  for  
America.  
Mark Galasso  
Bob Huston  
Flanner Hall  
Dec. 2, 1987  



Quote of the Day 
"Rose-colored glasses are never made in bifocals, because nobody wants to read the small print in dreams." 
Ann Landers 1018'87 



Editorial Board Operations Board
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ... Kevrn Becker Business Manager .. Brran Murray Managing Editor Mark Pankowskr Advert/song Des1gn Manager David Culligan
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Editor .. . Chrrs Bednarskr Advert/song Manager . Melinda Chapleau 
News Ed1tor .. . Jrm Arley ProductiOn Manager. Melissa Warnke 
Viewpomt Editor .. Chrrs Murphy ProJects Manager Mark McLaughlin
The Observer •s the •ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Umversrty of Sports Ed1tor Dennrs Corrrgan Systems Manager Shawn Sexton
Notre Dame du Lac a~d Sarnt Mary·s College It does not necessarrly reflect the polrcres of Accent Editor ~ Mrchael Naughton Controller Tracy Schrndele
the admrnrstrat•on ol erther onstrtutron The News rs reported as accurately and ob,ectrvely as Samt Marys Editor. . . Sandy Cerrmele GraphiC Arts Manager. Laura Stanton
possrble Uns.gned edrtorrals represent the oprnron of the ma1orrty of the Edrtorral Board Photo Edrtor Jrm Carroll
Commento·.es 'eners and the lnsrde Column present the vrews of therr authors. Column space 
rs avarlable ill all members of the school communrty. and the free expressron of varyrng oprnrons 
on campus ihrouqh reners. rs encouragec Founded November 3, 1988 
-~--~ -­

Ac
page 8 



_Never take candy from a stranger 

W
ho do you trust? How well and sister, your father and their course into the teeth of story impatiently. "I don't know be to your marriage vows?" do you trust them, and mother, or the neighbor you're certain disaster, and go half­what that dumb story is sup­Following this would be a commanded to love as your­mad at the sound of music like posed to mean. I'm married to
what do you trust them with? checklist of the subjects to be The members of the counter­self? Would any of them violate blues in the night. A number of a shrew who keeps me bound discussed in terms of Murphy's culture used to say that you your trust, in this dog-eat-dog priests and nuns'Seem to think to her by being indispensible." Law: careers, finances, per­can't trust anybody over thirty. society? They would never that anything goes as long as · "Sure," said the marriage sonality a<ljustments, sexual Now that the members of the deliberately betray you out of it's anti-Establishment, as counsellor. "You need the compatability and conjugal counter-culture are middle-deceit or wickedness; but though the Cross were not the eggs." 
rights, family planning, et mast they should bind them­
cetera.

Marriages which survive be­
selves to with an act of the will. 
"When Duty whispers low,cause one spouse needs the

Father Robert Griffin 
Married people who think it's 'Thou must,' the Youth replies,
eggs that the other provides
fun to swing live as though 
'I can,' " wrote Emerson. The "Iare on shaky grounds. Has

Letters to a Lonely God they were rejecting the graces can" of couples considering
marriage as a permanent union
of the married state, which 
marriage as a bridge overbecome obsolete? According to

could seal their ears against 
troubled waters, may bea popular song, after theaged, they know now right they couldn't they let you down be­the temptation to wander off romantic idealism. "I can, withlouses I have gone back to

were: how many of them trust cause they're weak? the reservation. Thousands of the help of God," is more in­
their spouses, "Diamonds are aeach other? You can't young catholics are so
Do you remember how girl's best friend." As De Beers' spiring to the ears of a priest. 
trust the President, the political alienated from the Church you Yet in the end, there are no
Ulysses, in the Odyssey, had to says, "Diamonds are forever,"candidates, or government offi­pass the ·green island sweet would think the Sirens' song and that's probably important if "right" answers. There are only with clover where the Sirens you're making an investment people trying to be right for
cials, elected or appointed. You they are hearing were broad­can't trust the clergy, especially cast in stereo. All of us stand, the other. The proposed inter­
sang songs which would that means more than the mar­
the ones seen on television; with our nerve ends naked, in
destroy your mind? Their pur­riage contract. rogatory could frighten people 
but for all you know, the most the pathway of enticements away from marriage for a
pose was to lure sailors into wrecking their ships on treac­lifetime. Any couple has a right
tainted clerics are the ones you -that can destroy us, body and The airline's magazine at don't see, because the may souL by pandering to our egos Thanksgiving printed that
herous rocks. Ulysses was to expect they will get a few of have raised hypocrisy to an in need of power-or pleasure­credo of cynicism called
warned that before entering the the breaks, despite the perver­
art-form that keeps them in­trips or other forms of mastur­Murphy's Law of Perversity. It
orbit of the Sirens' haunting sity of Murphy's Law. 
visible. You can't trust the boss batory satisfaction. So mar­goes like this: "Nothing is as 
song, he should first fill his 
you've been working for all riages break up: families easy as it looks. Everything Who do you trust? Who can
oarsmen's ears with wax, so 
your life, because efficiency in fragment: relatiqnships takes longer than you expect. If you trust to be there in good
that they could not hear the
business is now the name of crumble: honor is violated: there is a possibility of several times and in bad, with encour­
harpies' voices. Then he should
the game, and no time is trust is betrayed:. all because things going wrong, the one agement, love, and, if neces­
order his men to tie him hand
wasted in ·weeping over dead the operative words in the that goes wrong first will be sary, forgiveness? Who can
and foot, with his back to the 
wood, as experts were telling Sirens' song are Me! Me! Me! the one that will do the most trust you to be there in good
mast. When he heard the 
us on television last night. You damage. Left to themselves, all times and in bad, with encour­
haunting song appealing to StilL you should not become
can't trust the media, the in­things go from bad to worse. If agement, love, and forgive­
him to listen, if he tried to tell gloomy: the good people are
dustrialists, the Wall Street you work on a thing long ness? The pain you meet most
the crew, "Untie me," they were always with us. A man having
traders, the unions, or the pro­enough to improve it, it will often today is in the victim who 
to bind him even more tightly trouble with his wife went to
fessional associations of doc­break. If you think everything feels betrayed: by a sexual 
to the mast, and row on until see a marriage counsellor.
tors, lawyers,and Indian chiefs. will be OK you have surely partner who loved, and then
the Sirens dropped under the "She's driving me crazy with 
In a word, you can't trust overlooked something. Mother left the scene, unwilling to be 
sea rim, and their singing her incessant nagging," he 
anyone, private or with corpor­Nature always sides with the held responsible for the wild 
dwindl~d away. complained. "But she's a
ate connections, who has an hidden flaw." ancVor shy creature helshe had 
generous soul on whom I've 

axe to grind. Does this mean By Ulysses' account, this is tamed; or by a Fairweather 
become dependent." Perhaps the Campus Ministry
the way it happened. He alone friend who took off when thehonest people are a vanishing in its marriage preparation
breed? Not necessarily; but you listened to the Sirens' song. rainy season came. You can
"You need the eggs," the should push some of the paperThe oarsmen, with soft wax
can't start trusting strangers marri~ counsellor answered. work aside, and require complete the litany by listing plugging their ears, had him
until you've seen the whites of Seeing that the client didn't betrayals you know about your­
couples to memorize Murphy's
their eyes. Distrust has thrown tied up, tight as a splint, erect self.
understand, the marriage coun­Law. After the couple repeat italong the mast. When he
a monkey wrench into the sellor told him a story. "A fel­to each other three times a day
shouted and begged to be We worry about the super­
sexual revolution, because low went to see the shrink. 'My for a month, or once a day for bombs going off. But theuntied, they took more turns of
now, more than ever, you've brother,' he said, 'thinks he's a three months, they should be oomb burst that hurts most is
the rope to muffle him.
been warned against taking chicken.' 
interrogated as follows: "You when, in a hour of need, wecandy from strangers. In today's world, you couldn't 'That's no big problem,' the are taking each other as hus­look for someone we love, Who do you trust? That's not hide from the Sirens' song if shrink replied. 'We can cure band and wife, for better or who, to our surprise, isn't just another way of asking: you lived in the desert, and him easily.' 
worse, in good times and in there, then or later. In religious
"Who's afraid of the big, bad many people don't even bother 'You don't understand,' the bad. Assuming Murphy's Law is terms, we describe this kind of 
wolf out there in the real to try. Nobody could tell them brother replied. 'You see, we absolutely true, and that it is abandonment as Gethsemane,world?" Do you trust your about the prudent use of a need the eggs.' " descriptive of the rough times or the dark night of the soul girlfriend or boyfriend, your deafening wax or a restraining The husband with the nag­you will face in your marriage, when it is always three o'clock husband or wife, your brother rope. The madcap fools steer ging wife shrugged off the how faithful do you think you'll 
in the morning, day after day. 


Rainmakers pour it on 
T
DENNIS CORRIGAN accent writer "Long Gone Long." oward the end of last 
Drummer Pat Tomek and 
night's concert, the Rain­bassist Rich Ruth provided a 
makers' lead singer Bob solid rhythm section while 
Walkenhorst asked the small Steve Phillips sizzled on guitar. 
crowd at Stepan Center if it But the focus of the show was 
believed in rock and roll. For a clearly Walkenhorst, whether he 
while last night, the answer was singing, slapping hands 
was yes. with those in front or dancing 
The Rainmakers came to on stage. 
town last night and brought The highlights ot the show 
their straight-ahead rock 'n' roll came near the end when the 
to a small but energetic audi­band played verses from 
ence. The four-man band "Louie, Louie" and "Junmpin' 
careened through its set and Jack Flash" and the end of its The rock group The Rainmakers dropped into Stepan Center last night and performed to rave reviews. 
got their audience onto their own "Everybody's Drinking." An d H bb 
feet for the duration. ear-splitting version of "I Talk Calvin an 0 es Bill Watterson 
The group kicked off with a With My Hands" closed out the \\08BES I'M YOU GOT'10VR· 8\JT I.'M GK., H\ Wl-lt>.T IS Tl-1~\ K\O /)(}JI{G.':'

raucous version of "Tornado of 
set. The ban_d came back 
NGi k.\DD\t-\G. St.L~ \~ltl 1\\\S. S\JPPOSED ~~ I IT SOIJt{DS l\¥:£ f>.. Cl-4f>..\R
Love" from its ·new album, Tor­onstage for 1ts encore to the 
IFi()IJ D<lH ''1-\R 1\GUD\l'\\'' mBE f:•.T CN..lfD iOU 11\UMPING f.>.~~ -n-It. ~YI.
nado. All the songs from their strains of "We Wish You A 
GEIM£ LOO~ ~~ME.' DI~NER.! Nt>.MtS. I 

second album were played with Merry Christmas" before break-
IN "\B'\ tl{}t-\S G.1\l'IA SA.\D H\ 
Will., 1-\15 DINNER­

a lot more intensity and ing into rousing versions of 
S~DS-.. ~ K\\.L ME! SJRR~.R\Q\1? 
lOS 'Srot{E COLD.

strength than are in the studio "Let My People Go-Go" and 
\ ~ "' ".Yk \ ~W \l~nt. r ~ f1£'Sversions. The energy kept on "Big Fat Blonde." 
~-_':: -.,_, ~ 1-\t.! 11~PPY . ____.....___....., flowing, segueing directly into Perhaps the only disappoint­
· ~L.­


"Downstream" off the group's ment of last night's show was 
debut album. In fact, the that more people didn't see relentless pace only let up in one of the freshest, most pow-two brief instances, on the intros to "No Romance" and 
some time. 

• 

nt page 9 


~ttst-see movies 
•
LA BAMBA 

FrVSat Engineering Auditorium 7, 9 and I I p.m. 
Lou Diamond l'hillips stars in this film biography of '50s rock 'n' roller Richie Vaiens. The 17-year-old singer from California experi­ences a meteoric rise to the top of the music world before tragi­cally dying in a plane crash with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper. 
ROUND MIDNIGHT Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 and 9:45p.m. 
Dexter Gordon stars in this glowing tribute to the golden age of be-bop and American jazz great Bud Powell. Gordon plays the expatriate jazz saxophonist, who becomes a symbol of the music and the era in which he lives. An exquisitely crafted mood piece, much of the 111m takes place in New York's Blue Note, a jazz club, letting the viewer simply experience the atmosphere of the place. Gordon gives a remarkable (Oscar nominated) performance as the emotionally disarranged, psychologically disintegrating jazz man whose giftedness Is beyond all accounting. 
IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE Sun Recital Hall at IUSB 8 p.m. 
IUStl's film series closes for the semester with this classic Frank Capra celebration of Christmas. Jimmy Stewart sacrifices his dreams and ambitions in order to provide for those who depend on him. When all his work seems to have failed, he decides to commit suicide, until his guardian angel arrives to show him what the world would have been like had he never existed. 
NOW, VOYAGER Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 and 9: 15 p.m. 
A star-studded soap opera that absorbs and fascinates because .of the extraordinary skill of the performers. Bette Davis is outstand­ing as the lonely spinster who is transformed into a beautiful young woman with the help of psychiatrist Claude Rains. She takes an ocean cruise to discover herself, only to become in­volved in a tragic romance with Paul Heinreld. 
NUTS University Park East Cinema 2, 4:30, 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
Iiarbra Streisand plays a high priced call girl who kills a client in self-defense. Her parents and lawyer want her declared incom­petent to stand trial (insane) and committed to an asylum. She wants to stand trial for the crime. To help prove her sanity, she enlists the aid of reluctant public defender Richard Dreyfuss and together they take on her family, the legal system, and modern psychiatry. 

Local Theater Gu.ide 
0000000000000000000 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
"NUTS" "LESS THAN ZERO" "TEEN WOLF, TOO" "THE HIDDEN" "RUNNING MAN" "THE SICILIAN" 

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 

"PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES" "HELLO AGAIN" "CINDERELLA" 
100. CENTER CINEMA 
I 00 Center St. 259-0414 
"LIKE FATHER, LIKE SON' "DIRTY DANCING" 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC" "THREE MEN AND A BABY" "FATAL ATTRACTION" 
FORUM CINEMAS 
North VIllage Mall 277-1522 
"NEAR DARK" "PENITENTIAARY Ill" "BABY BOOM" 



Local 
The !USB Theatre Company and the IUSB Division of Music will present the Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera "Patience" tonight. tomorrow night. <!nd all next weekend. All shows begin at 8:15 p.m. in Northside Hall Little Theatre. Call 237­420 I for ticket information. 
The Northern Indiana Historical Society will hold its "American Christmas Traditions" this Sunday from noon to 4 p.m. 
Featured will be musical enter­tainment. antique toys, dolls, sleds, ornaments, decorated trees, period rooms, and more. 
Opening at the South Bend Art Center this week is the show "Collaborations." 20 estab­lished artists were invited to select an eme'rging artist col­laborator or collaborators to work with them on their proj­ects. The resulting pieces are on display in the Warner Gallery until next January. 

At 7:30 p.m. tonight the Notre Dame hockey team will take on Michig~n. Dearborn in the JACC. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its 1987 Commut11ty Christmas Concert tonight In the Bendix Theatre at the Cen­tury Center. The concert begins at 8 p.m. and tickets are re­quired. Call 239-6352 for infor­
. mation. 

Saint Mary's College will pres­ent its annual St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar from Monday to Friday next week. The sale will feature holiday crafts, baked goods and clothing and will be held in the lobby of LeMans Hall. 
The Saint Mary's College Music Department welcomes the holiday season with its 15th annual Madrigal Christmas Dinners tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. For more infor­mation call 284-4626. 
SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) Fr. John Lahey 9 a.m. Fr. William Simmons 
10:30 a.m. Fr. Daniel Jenky 
12: 15 p.m. Fr. Thomas Gaug­han 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady 
Chapel 
WEEKDAY MAIN CHURCH SCHEDULE 
I I :30 a.m. Monday thr Friday 
5:15 p.m. Monday thr Friday 
SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
I 0:30a.m. Cliurch of Loretto 
4:30 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel I 0 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of 
Loretto 



In the just-released movie, "Nuts," Barbra Streisand is Claudia Draper, tJYing to prove her metal competence with the help of her attorney (Richard Drey'Uss). 
SCOTTSDALE CINAEMAS 
I 153 Scottsdale Mall 291-4583 
"PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES" "SUSPECT" "CINDERELLA" 
READY III CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 683-1112 
"BEVERLEY HILLS COP II" "HIDING OUT" "RUSSKIES" "DATE WITH AN ANGEL" 

[_,_________________________________



ChitChat . . ·•
1 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
accent writer 
Early next year the PBS drama anthology series "American Playhouse" will present a three hour drama based on the transcripts of the Bernhard Goetz trial. Harry Moses atten­ded the trial and then took the 4, 600 pages of trial transcripts to write the script. ... Barbra Strelsand just endowed a professorship at the University of Southern California. Accor­ding to the American Sociologi­cal Society, Barrie Thorne has been named the first Barbra Streisand Professor of Intimacy and Sexuality.... PBS began production on a documentary about Humphrey Bogart to be hosted by Lauren Bacall. Bacall will share memories of her husband, present home movies previously unseen by the public and Introduce fllm clips from Ted Turner's film library.... Mary Steenburgen and Paul Scofield are working on a retelling of the Anne Frank story. "The Attic: The Hiding of Anne Frank," is the first time the story will be considered from the viewpoint of Mleo Gles, the woman who hid the 

Frank family.... carol Chan­ning is set to do a pilot for CBS. She'll play a Washington, 
D.C. lobbyist who represents small, good causes, bringing her in contact with a lot of young idealists.... Paul New­man decided not to go ahead with his role in "The Old Gringo." He was set to play author Ambrose Pierce in his last days before he disap­peared among Pancho VIlla's troops in 1914. Producer Jane Fonda will play the lead role of Harriet Wlndslow, an American spinster teacher In Mexico In the early 1900s. Burt Lancaster has been hired to take on the vacant role.... Gary Shan­dling is considering taking his cable comedy "It's Gary Shan­dling's Show" off of Showtlme and moving to a commercial network. probably_ Fox. Whatever happens with that project, Shandllng Is making a movie based·on the show for Lorimar. It'll be called (what else?) "It's Gary Shandling's Movie." ... Ex-President Jimmy Carter has written a book about fishing and hunting for Bantam Books. The as-yet­untitled tome will be released next June, just In time for Fa­ther's Day. 

Friday, December 4, 1987 
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The women.'s softball team will have a meeting Wednesday, Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in Farley's Middleroom for anyone interest in joining. If you can't attend, contact Barb at 4290 or Terri at 1260. -The Observer 
The ski team will hold a mandatory meeting for all those involved in any of its functions Wednesday, Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. Bring your insurance and checkbooks. Questions call Christopher (234-6718), J.P. (271-8082), Maureen (271-0654) or Laurie (2656). -The Ob­server 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Swimmers stay close to 'Nova 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Writer 
Villanova men's swimming coach Ed Geisz never imagined Notre Dame would be so close to his favored Wildcats after the first night of the National Catholic Invitational Swim­ming and Diving Champion­ships. 
Villanova leads the Irish by the slim margin of 215-194 after rallying from an early deficit. 
"We didn't expect this," a surprised Geisz said. "We had one of the best days in Vil­lanova swimming history today with seven guys having their personal best time." 
The Irish jumped out to an early 58-31 lead as Paul Godfrey won the 500 freestyle and teammate Brian Rini took third. The Wildcats struck back by taking the top three spots in the 200 individual medley, as Chris Craft set a new pool record with a 1:52.08 clocking. 

"In the 200 IM, I took a chance," Geisz said. "I loaded that up with my best swimmers for points becasue I thought I could go 1-2-3." 
Matthew Blaise and Lou Dearstyne took the top two spots in the 50 free followed by Notre Dame's John Koselka. Villanova's Dave Echeverria took the one-meter diving title with ease, outdistancing Notre Dame's Ed Veome 485.5-394.05. The Wildcats edged out the Irish in the 800 free relay with a new pool record time. 
Even though Villanova came back to take the lead, Irish coach Tim Welsh was over­joyed with Notre Dame's per­formance. 
''The men are swimming a beautiful meet." Welsh s::~irl 
In the women's divison, Bos­ton College has the early lead with 222 points followed by the Irish at 212. Fordham is a close third with 172 points. 
The 200 medley relay team of Annette Quill, Becky Wood, Christine Moston and Tracy Johnson started the night with a first-place finish in a time of 1:53.04. 
"The pattern of the women's meet is as we predicted," Welsh said. "If you are favor­ing a team, Boston College has the advantage. But they have to swim to earn that place. We think we are in the hunt to chal­lenge." 
n.ca..wrNotnt o.me office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent c.nt.r, eca~P.. clualfled ~from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtc~ar. The oe.... Saln1 w.ry'1l office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Cent•, eca~PtS clasalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frtc~ar. Deedllne for next-day claaalfleds Is 3 p.m. All claaalfleds must
Classifieds be ~. either In penon or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live c:hlncttn per Ay. 
WANT TO EARN $12 FOR JUST D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS NO LAW WOMEN Don't flatter your­NO LAW WOMEN Missy Lahren--l"m still looking for a b1ke
NOTICES WATCHING T.V.? WANT TO EARN $12 The D.C. Club will be sponsoring a selves No SELF-RESPECTING ND JD's 10 Reasons Not to Date a NO JD: with two seats, if you're still look1ng for FOR DOING YOUR STUDIES? RELAX bua home for Chrlatmaa break. WOULD APPLY! 1. Putting up with them Ia worse than a ride home...the biker---£1168. IN OUR LAZY BOYS AND DO BOTHI The Important Information Ia aa fol-putting out
ADOPTION: Loving couple, GIVE BLOOD PLASMA AND HELP lows: PHILADELPHIA CLUB CHRISTMAS 2. Dinner out meana the Huddle BASKETBALL FANSIphysiciar>)>sychologisf, deeply wiPli!ls to SAVE A CHILD'S LIFE I BRING THIS AD Departure: 10:00 P.M. on Friday B~3 SIGNUPS: MON, DEC. 7 AT 7PM 3. baaeball caps Stay Luxbury In

adopt newborn. Welcom1ng warrr family, Wearing In lieu of at the Hotel ln­love, opportunities! Expenses ,.:a:j. Le­TO: PLASMA. LIN­IN BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. PAY· dlanapollo
AMERICAN 515 December 18 from the library circle showering 
COLNWAY WEST. TUES. WED. FRI. Arrival In D.C.: Approx. 10:00 A.M. on MENT BY CASH OR NO CREDIT UNION 4. Reading the aporia section while $41 for 2 or more people 212-724·7942. SAT. 9:00·5:00 234· 6010 Saturday Dec. 19 altha CHECK ONLY DEPARTURE: FRI, DEC. dlacardlng the front page We taka people over 18 with 10. Greyhound Bus station downtown 18 10PM FROM CCE BUILDING 5. Daring maana drinking lmporta at 1-800-222-3217 
gal, confidential. Call Ellie or Alar ·collect 

For the return trip back to school: RETURNS: MON, JAN. 11 SAM FROM ar. bar One-half mila waot of 1-69 off E. 82nd Departure: 9:00 P.M. on Mon. Jan 11 GREYHOUND STATION ANY QUES­6. Moving cloaar to the plata during St. 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 
CALL CHRIS 

FOR SALE from The Greyhound Sllltlon TIONS CALL JOHN 2013 coed aoflball when a women Ia at bat
234-8997 Arrival: Approx. 9:00 A.M. on Tuea. 7. Dressing up means a clean tee ahlrt 
Jan. 12 In time to enroll HAPPY BIRTHDAY DUDLEY! I L-V· 8. Their favorite movie Ia on ESPN "I'll handle my date just like a 
-FOR SALE­COST: $75 roundtrip -Payment by NO YOU!!I 9. They atudy at SMC without law professional. "·-M. W.
Wordprocessing-Typing 

·GENUINE HEINTZ PUPPIES. Credit Union check or cash only booka Choose now, we will hold them until the SIGNUPS"..' Monday December 7 LIVELY UP YOURSELF with Reggae 10. They frequent ar. bar on undergrad KAREN holidays , from 7-8 P.M. at the Information Rhythms · Sundays 3-5 · WVFI AM 640 nlghta How about those nice Notre Dame Call PETE at 239-5603 or 234·7429 booth In the lobby of UIFortune 
272-8827 

boys? Giving rldealuat for the aaklng. 7406 Queatlona call Mike McCarthy at 3218 "Minneapolis is so cool, it may give you It raatorea your faith In humanity, the CHILLS I" The FINAL SOLUTION to chrlatlne na,ueberraacht? Die Sonne huh? love Jen & Kathy 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277­For Sale: C-ITOH F 1 0·40 Starwriter 

South Bend Radio is on WVFI-AM 640 achlen. In Delnem Gealcht. Lake Mic­Printer with Sheetfeeder. Best Offer. 284· TYPING 
2n-11131 or 237-1949 Desperately need a ride to either Sat. 11 o'clock (tick tock) AM to 1PM higan. You make ME amlle. Prima, ND LAW GIRLS No males With "quality5666 Decatur, IL (Milikin U), Champaign, IL ( with Ann. daaa wlr una so lange kennan. Danke. free time" would waste it on you U of .I), or Normal, IL (ISU) for fhis .................................................... Fuer elnen SuperT ag MARISSA'S TYPING 2n-2724 NIGHT; weekend. I'll share costs. Call Trish ELVIS IS EVERYWHERE... Dan and NO LAW GIRLS
PLANE TIX TO HOUSTON HOBBY on 
DEC 17 x11n-GREG 
640 Until he decided to wander. They "expanding your horizons" FOR SALE 1979 DELTA 88 RUNS 
2n-1051 DAY. £4620 Mike-Sunday nites 11-1 AM WVFI AM Of Ted, Ellen could not have been fonder, Reduce your wa1stl1nes before you start 
searched high and low, But where did GREAT PERFECT FOR ND STUDENT
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY JOHN 
LORETTA· JOIN NUCLEAR! Ted go? He must have gone somewhere Dan Dr~scoii,Scott Lawlis,CarlCALL 234-804 7 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 WE ARE VERY PROUD OF YOU. KEEP 
out yonder!! P.S. When's dinner? Mayer,Mike Johnson,Chris Murphy, ................................................................ To ANNE in 313 Happy 19th Birthday Dave Rulli,Todd Kayes. and last but cer­UP THE GOOD WORK. 
LOVE, MOM & DADONE WAY TICKET FOR SALE. Fly back 

Love, Wayne ANNIE (WAKE UP!!) tainly not least you.Chris Lucy-Tomte. 
to South Bend from New York on Pied­We would have wished you a HAPPY 723 PE, X-Mas SYR, Get ready for some mont on Jan 10 for $92. Call Kevin at BIRTHDAY In person but we thought of the best fun you have ever had!!! P.S
TRAFFIC TRAINEE SHENANIGANS CHRISTMAS SHOW

4335.
' LOST/FOUND I 

you'd be busy...studying To C.L., guess who's made the nylon portatlon firm haa an opportunity that Washington Hall South Bend branch of a national trana­Friday, 8:30 p.m. 
maybe?... Exploring the depths of your switch? 
IF YOU FOUND A LARGE BLUE AND AIRLINE TICKET:SOUTH BEND TO 
Seminar fopic? Just remember page 15 GOLD ND UMBRELLA IN AM. 103 OF WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. DEC.7 BEST OF· offers a dlveralty of dulles, groW1h po­of Dulac... Have fun this weekend! Love, Eileen, Don'f forget your dancing shoes.
tential and an excellent aalarytbenaflta Admission free, see the show before you

O'SHAG ON 11!16,PLEASE CALL RAY FER 234·6394 ASK FOR D.J. 
Amy, Tasha and Bet~E MSCpackage. Qualifications: Bachelor or go to your SYR or Formal aaaocfatea degree In general bual­at 1478. THANKS. 
One-way ticket to Long Beach, CA. MARv.Ktit:t:eiiMAN:··is.voufi· NAME 
neaa, good organizational and Inter­

Lost: GOLD BRACELET in or near S. Leave Chicago O'Hare Dec. 17, at 9 am.. DON'T MISS THE SHENANIGANS II you want me to show you what it takes REALLY MARY? HAPPY BUT-personal akllla, 35 wpm typing ability 
Dining Hall. Please call Colleen X2537. CHRISTMAS CONCERT THIS FRIDAY,
arrive 1:12 pm. $100. Call Toby 239-(for computer usage), able to work ln to be TURTLED, first you have to show TER. .. oops! We mean HAPPY 
5262. DECEMBER 4, AT 8:30 PM IN WASH· me what's under your shell. ·The Rabbit
a feat paced almoaphere, willing to BIRTHDAY, HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY,PLEASE HELPI!I I LOST MY KEYS INGTON HALL ADMISSION IS FREE! 
THAT lSI! YOU'RE THE GREATESTwork alone If necaaaary. lntereated?
PLAYING FOOTBALL ON SOUTH BRING YOUR SYR OR FORMAL DATE Attention AUBURN-COLORED HAIR FRIEND WESend reaume to:
QUAD IN FRONT OF ALUMNI. 2 KEYS TO THE CONCERT BEFORE THE MAUREEN KELLY HAVE, EVEN IF YOU DO WEAR THOSE So. Bend Manager
ON A LEPRACHAUN KEY CHAIN. DANCE AND START THE EVENING 
P.O. Box n1 Here are the top 1 0 running jokes from !'>ILLY LOOKING "MOON BOOTS"
TICKETS

THEY WERE LOST ON NOV. 21st JUST AND THE CHRISTMAS SEASON OUT AROUND THE ROOM I HAVE A GREAT 
Sterling Hgta., Ml 48311-Dn1 Ft. Lauderdale:
BEFORE BREAK. IF FOUND, PLEASE RIGHTI ·1 0. Live nude dancers? Where are the WEEKEND IN HEAVEN! WE LOVECALL NANCY AT x3885. 
For Sale Cheap Round Trip Plane Tlx ................A'i-.i"'i'6s'r;.·L.aii·· YOU-ROOMIES FROM HELL 0
dead ones?

Chlcago-Minneapolla for X-MAS 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE BIG FOUR BAS· 9. This is where I ran to get the news­
AN TOSTAL 88 KETBALL CLASSIC IN INDIAPOLIS paper. TO THE "BACKWARDS SKIRT""HELP"" Break. Cell -1048 
I LOST MY GOLD GUCCI AN TOSTAL 88 to be continued . WEARER" a.k.a. THE "MAD MASHER"SATURDAY.! HAVE TICKETS NICK 
Help plan the BIGGEST PARTY on x21 01 or 2100 WATCH FRI. NITE B-4 BIG 4 B-BALL TIX AT INDY THIS SAT. 

this this birthday is kind of unimportant.
campus Applications for AN TOSTAL 88 TURKEY BREAK NEAR LeMANS FACE VALUE CALL FITZ X1520 You can already drive, you can already

& THE PARKING LOTII Exec Commttee available 2nd floor La To the brunette I passes on the stairs of vote, you can already see X-rated
I Fortune

IT HAS INCREDIBLE SENTIMENTAL Need 1 or 2 GA ND·Valpariso Dec. 19. 
WANT the Architecture building Thurs. mor­movies, and you can't drink legally forVALUEIIIF FOUND,PLEASE CONTACT Call Scott collect bet. 5-11 pm 804-490­
A ning:Thanks for Jha smile, it brightened three years! Bes1des that sex is free. So
CHRISTINA AT £548511 9173 To the good looking man in a blue jeans 
FAMOUS a dreary day. The guy with the beard do something unimportant for your
jacket I saw Wed. at 1pm in South Dining 

VACATION .............................••..•••.. birhtday-it kind of goes along with the
I lost a plaid beret in Bridget's on Monday Hall (left, left) I think you are in 10:10 PAT O"LEARY: Who's this "Favorite day. HAPPY 19TH SPANCE!II!I LOVEnight. I'd really like ~ back, so if you have Philo WI Freddoso. You floored melll YAI KELLY
............................................................ Belle?" I should have known when all the
it please call 271-0758 and ask for Dave. Please call M.G. x3098
PERSONALS 
ATTENTION SAINT MARY'S STU­Chiclets were gone. "Your Fiancee"ll
I'll give a reward! DENTSII WIN A SKI WEEKEND FOR GRANTED it's Rachel's birthday We triedTo the guy in the Glee Club who carolled 
BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 YOU AND 3 FRIENDS! RAFFLE TICK· KARA H., It's finally herel No, nof the to find her a KLUTZ-proof wafer jug, but
at Regina Tues night with the red ban­

ETS ON SALE IN HCC UNTIL FRIDAY Grace formal-your 18th Birthday. Hope had no luck. If anyone can help call 284-·
dana & long coat: You are awesome & 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, DEC.4. WINNER WILL BE AN­I'd love to meet you. ·LH you have a very HAPPY BIRTHDAY and 4247, and also wish her a happy 19fh!FOR RENT CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE NOUNCED AT THE FAMOUS a great time fomorrow night. love, your GRANTED we love you. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. VACATIONERS CONCERT. RAFFLE friend with no date to Grace
I have a roundfrip airline ticket to TICKETS ARE ONLY $1.00. GET THEM To

looking for your own room next semes­Cleveland, OH from SBend. Leave 
REACH NO Will LARGE COMPANIES! SMALL COM­Mark,Tommy,Justin,Chris,Rob,Chuck.
ter? Need 1-3 roommates for house, Fri. Dec 18 4pm come back Jan 11.$140 
out to your friends abroad PANIES! Everything In between will be Sonny. Dugs. Marty. Paul: 
Call 284·4213
$100-$12!>tno plus utilities. Call 271· 

with a personal ad in FAM"olis"v.6:c..6:rioN"Efi·s·iN·c-oNC"Efi:r repraaented at: Remember that his sm1le lives on 1n you.
0758. 

FOREIGN RELATIONS' REACH THIS FRIDAY IN THE PARLOR OF THE To ND LAW WOMEN Toledo Career Network All my prayers-love,M1mi. NEWSLETTER SAINT MARY'S HCC. 8:30 P.M. TO looking for grad. men with quality free Tueeday, Dec. 29
BEAUTiFUL'"''3~BED'A66"M APART 

only 50 cants for up to 20 words II 11 :00 P.M. CATCH THEM NOW time ? Meet us at the Physics Grad. stu· Downtown Toledo, Hotel Sofllel.
FURNISHED AVAIL DEC. 1 233 6298 ' 

buy as many 20-word blocks ae you like II BEFORE THEY GO ON NATIONAL denlofaculty Christmas Party. Dec. 4th Stop by the placement office for mora Congrats to those who made BETSY'Swoiii<it.ia···----·;;iiu:\i:ii··----··sruoiiN-r write your ad, put it WITH YOUR MONEY TOURII THIS GROUP IS "HOT"II (Tonight) 7:30PM In room 341 Nieuwland Information or call 419·243-8191. FALL '87 SYR LIST! AKA:Marty,John, LOOKING FOR THE SAME TO SHARE In an envelope in Mary Berge<f'oreign EVERYONE WELCOME AND ADMIS­Science. Mike, Tom(Mike's roomie), Vince.Sam. RUNAWAY BAY APT. S250oMO. e 11.1 Relations' mailbox and we'll do the rest. SION IS FREE. Erich,Sean, Biii,Jack, Joe.Brett, Robb, UTtUTtES. CALL 25N2n. Nino,Jim, Tim.Kevin. Mario, and Matt.
TO Loretta Ignore Zeid and the rest. JOIN Waterioo Campus Bookllst .Coming Soon High Energy instead Ill I'm going to gel my revenge. In the words Sorry to those who didn't make the TOP
................................................................ 

IrS A SALEIGREAT SWEATERS AND of Mohamid Ali,
APARTMENT FOR SUBLET 1 or 2 20--Better Luck next semester! (If she female roommates needed for spring se­BUFFALO BUS FOR BREAK SIGN­JEWELRY WILL BE ON SALE IN SMC Shoes: Looks like It will be awhile until "Fly like a butterfly, sting like a bee, doesn't transfer now!) P.S. Happy 19th UPS:Thurs 3-5 and Sat 1-4 (Dec.3 & 5) HCC GAMEROOM THURS.AND FRI. we're together again. "You're going to tall In love with me."
mester call 288-2425 PIPS I 
in the main lobby of LaFortune. LEAVES DEC.3&4 FROM 10·6PM. CREDIT But I know a warm couch and a quilt (not Napoleon. 
N.D. Dec. 19. RETURNS Jan.11 COST: CARDS AND ·CHECKS ACCEPTED. from Ireland, but from $50 roundtrip. NO ONE-WAY PRICE THESE ARE GREAT FOR X·MASII LS. Ayres) with your name on 11. By the ROOM with private bath In Christian 
home for quiet non-srnol<er grad student. SOPHOMORE 
REDUCTIONS. ?'s call Kim at 3425 way, try to be discreet. My puppy is the CHICAGO TRIP$140tnonth. 2B1-11n 
So Our Lovely and favorite Ohioan is jealous type. For Sale or Trade: 
..........r .................................................... 

... Marla, Mary, Todi, Patch, French McNug­back in town after e relaxing break. Yayy One Fordham Ticket. Call x11 08. We have extra tickets for the Chicago get -or whatever name you use now­II We're trying to get her friends dates to trip. The bus will/eave campus at ·11 :30 Happy 21st MARIA DOT!. the Manor Chnstmae SYR, but they are Iceman: HEY JACK KEROUAC, I'm a fan JUST am this Sat., December 5. $10 w/11 get
WANTED being I hope you handle cheerless you a free day downtown, but $75 gets
a bit too picky, so the going is can the LIKE YOU (and you) of that dj with the JENNIFER KEEFE BLOCK tough. AI leaet I've got MY date for Sat· wench. white hair. EVERYTHING'S EXPLOD­you the bus trip plus reserved seats for Ia today your birthday? urday night, last time I checked. In the words of Sam, guru of the modern ING Sunday nights from 9pm·11 pm on the 8:30pm Second City comedy show. 
I nMd 2 ride111 to 

Why didn1 you tell us? relationship: wvfl 64am with Chicago's finest, Sandra The bus leaves Chicago at 70:45 pm.
Northeast Colorado HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! Congratulations Nora "This Is love. REAL LOVE. You've never McBride. 

Tickets on sale in the Class Office on Call Chris 1008 Love, Katy & Bully You mat the qualifications met her before." "Open the door.' the 2nd noor of LBFortune from 2·4 pm 
Unda's Committee Brrraaarrrrgggghhhhh. Goodluck. Ra· Sandra: Thank you and Merry Christmas I for Christmae Break 
today. 

...........................................u ................... member the words of Chairman Mao. No, (T.rue F.alth) 
ATTENTION:PATRICK O'LEARY OF • just ................................................................ 
CHRISTMAS BREAK 

ALUMNI HALL I THINK YOU ASKED H-wv Birthday to Dan Mlchellnlll Love, remember his name. Scruff, Welcome to Notre Damell know Ride needed to Buffalo or Toronto Call THE RIGHT PERSON TO YOUR three of your favorite roommates In The man with 3 names. I'll have a great birthday. Thanxl Love, Cupcakes wants a Snookumsimrnedlatelyl Joye 2868 LyonsII Anne(Ch---y).
SYRIIYOUR SYR DATE 
L___________________________________________________________ _ 
... 



Friday, December 4, 1987 
Although plenty of tickets are still available, a line of Cotton Bowl-bound Notre Dame students formed early Thursday morning. Pictured, from 
1ne uoserver 1 ::;uzanne Poch left to right, are Amy Wertheimer, Trey Dodson, Mike O'Leary and Dan lzzo. 

• Group Charters & Tours  ·Card Tables  
• Restrooms  • Radios  
• Your DESIGNATED Driver  • Tape Players  

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 
Happy Senior Birthday "Lana" 
LOVE FROM ALL THE N.J., N.Y., D.C., & PA. LAND'S 
CAN THIS FACE REALLY BE 22? 





Thenight 
belongs to 


Michelob: 
Exceptionally smooth Michelob in convenient 
12-packs 
WE"D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
'Il1c "'''tds \\'<' U\'<' ~, 
' '' 
page 11 
-

Cotton Bowl sales lower than expected 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

The instructions for the Cot­ton Bowl ticket sale said that no lines were to form before 6:30a.m. 
But students, fearing the stu­dent allotment of tickets would run out early Thursday mor­ning, arrived at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC as early as 5 a.m. 
"We didn't want to take the chance of not getting tickets," said junior Dan Izzo. 
The funny thing is, there really was no need to rush. 
Out of Notre Dame's allot­ment of 13,000 tickets, about 1,000 were sold to students on 
the  first  day,  according  to  
Ticket  Manager  Mike  
Bobinski.  Any  student  who  

wanted a ticket had no problem buying one. 
The sale of tickets for the stu­dent section continues today until5 p.m., and Bobinski said he hopes the number sold to students will double. 
Notre Dame's allotment in­cludes all tickets which will be sold to alumni. If tickets are still available after alumni re­quests are satisfied, a general sale to students, faculty and the South Bend community will be held Monday. 
Early Thursday morning Bobinski said he was con­cerned about an early sluggish response from the alumni. He said there was a chance that the allotment will not be com­pletely sold by the Cotton Bowl committee's deadline of next Friday. 
"We want as many Notre Dame people there as possi­ble," he said. "Texas A&M will be well represented. They've indicated to me that anything we can't sell, they could sell in two days. And we don't want to eat too many tickets we can't sell at $25 a pop." 
Approximately 31,000 appli­cations were mailed out to all contributing alumni. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

"We may not see (the response) until Friday or Mon­day," said Bobinski. "But it's not quite what we expected." 
He later indicated that Thursday's mail doubled the number of ticket requests from alumni. 
Meanwhile Bobinski said he was happy with the strong stu­dent response, despite the cold and rain. 
Izzo and Mike O'Leary, two juniors from Keenan, arrived at Gate 10 at exactly 4:47a.m. to claim the first spot in line. They bought six tickets, two for themselves and four for friends. 
"They said they all had tests today," said Izzo. "They were girls, so we believed them." 
Even though the next student did not arrive until 6 a.m., there was a mad dash for the door. 
"It was so cold that we waited in the car until the next person came," Izzo said. "As soon as we saw a person com­ing, we ran to get ahead of her." 
They outsprinted Amy Wer­theimer, a sophomore from Lyons and the second person in line. A free place to stay in Dal­las was her motivation for rising out of bed early to buy the tickets for herself and three friends -two of whom are sisters who live in Dallas. She also wanted to experience the thrill of standing in line for tick­ets to the New Year's Day clas­sic. 
"It's just like waiting in line for Bob Dylan tickets," says Wertheimer, who apparently was trying to flatter the foot­ball team. 
Several Dallas natives also arrived early, including Dan Janick, a junior from Morris­sey. He indicated that the club might sponsor events for stu­dents making the trip to Dallas. The details should be an­nounced before students leave the campus after exams. 
HOUSTON -Ohio State All­America linebacker Chris Spielman, a finalist for the Lombardi Award in 1986, won the 40-pound granite trophy Thursday night as the nation's outstanding collegiate lineman of 1987. 
Spielman, named Tuesday to the Associated Press first team, was the third Ohio State player to win the award, named for the former Green Bay 
-

Packers and Washington Redskins coach who died of, cancer of 1970. 
Ohio State's Jim Stillwagon won the first Lombardi in 1970 and Ohio State tackle John Hicks won it in 1973. 
Spielman's personal achieve­ments were somewhat over­shadowed this season by the trobules surrounding the Buck­eye football program, includ­ing a 6-4-1 record and the firing of Coach Earle Bruce. 
"When I look up and see myself around guys that are going to bowl games, it hurts me deep inside," the 6-foot-2, 234-pound Spielman said. "I'm 

t.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii jealous of them·" 
Friday, December 4, 1987 
page 12 The Observer 
Sophomore goal-scorer 
Guay boosts Irish hockey 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Just a year ago this weekend, the Notre Dame hockey team hosted Michigan-Dearborn, and a freshman wing named Bruce Guay scored a goal for the Irish. 
The Irish host Michigan­Dearborn again this weekend, and if things go according to form, Guay has a good chance of scoring another goal. But that's where the similarities between this season and last season end for the Irish hockey team and Guay. 
Notre Dame struggled to a 10-19-1 record last year with Guay scoring just seven goals. The Irfsh already are close to matching last year's win total with an 8-1-2 start, and Guay has doubled his scoring produc­tion with a team-leading 15 goals. But Guay is not about to credit himself for the improve­ments. 
"I'm playing with two of the finest hockey players I've ever had the fortune of playing with in Mike McNeill and Tom Mooney," says the North Smithfield, R.I., native. "It's not necessarily me, it's the whole line as a unit. We play the same aggressive style and we click really well." 
And he is not about to take any credit for the team's im­provement, even if he has scored more than one-fourth of Notre Dame's goals. 
"We have a lot of talent, and we only lost two players from last year," says Guay. "We've come together as a team, we're 

Tar Heels 

... 

hold off Hatters 
Associated Press 

-
Don't let your term papers wait until the last minute Call 

THUNDER ENTERPRISES 
Word Processing · Plus 

playing a lot better and the coaching system is a lot bet­ter." 
Irish coach Ric Schafer ack­nowledges that the presence of McNeill, Notre Dame's top scorer the past two years, has helped Guay's statistics im­prove. But he thinks an added dose of confidence also has played a major role. 
"Last year he only had seven goals, and now he's already doubled that and he's playing with good linemates in McNeill and Mooney,'' says the first­year head coach. "He sees he can score, and we always knew he could score." 
Guay realizes his confidence has increased, but he connects that to what he thinks is a changed attitude on the team this season. 
"With the new coaching sys­tem, our line and our team in general has a lot more intensity and desire in the practices and games," Guay says. "We're a lot more serious about the game. 
"We wanted to improve our record from last year, which was kind of dismal. Our goal was to turn that around and win a lot of one-goal games and overtime games. Then we could turn ourselves around and be winners." 
Guay has played a big role in turning around the close games, starting with the season-opener against Windsor. Behind 3-1 after two periods, Guay scored two goals in the final period as the Irish won, 5-4, in overtime. The next weekend at Kent State, Guay scored the final goal of the game both nights, one with just 21 seconds left in regulation, as the Irish came away with two ties. 
Guay has shown no signs of slowing down. 
In three games last week at Mercyhurst and Canisius, Guay scored six goals, with one hat trick, to become the ACHA player of the week. 
"He's been in the right spots at the right times," says Schafer. "He's taking. more shots, and we like him to take a lot of shots. He doesn't have the hardest or most powerful shot on the team, but he is ac­curate. Sometimes it doesn't have to be a hard shot." 
But Guay's improvement has not come entirely on the offen­sive end. 
"He's certainly not a one­way hockey player," Schafer says. "I've talked time and time again about forwards hel­ping out with defense, and he's 
been very unselfish." 
Perhaps the only negative statistic attached to Guay's name this season can be found under the penalty minutes column. His 28 minutes in the box are almost twice as much as any other Irish player. 
"A lot of people think 'That's great, you're leading the team in penalty minutes,' but that doesn't help the team at all," Guay says. "There's nothing you can do in the box, and you get the team in a shorthanded situation. I have to be more pa­tient with myself. At times I get too aggresive and get stuck with a penalty." 


The castle and Knights 
r~~. 

I "·· /"· ., 
• 
Minutes from Campus 

• 
Discounts to Stlldents & Faculty 

• 
$4.00 otre Helrcutand HeirDesign 

• 
$5.00 otT a Perm or Color Savlce 







---~---------~-----------------------------------------------------... 
Louisville freshman 





Smith sparks Crum's Cards 
to me they're all-Americans, just like I have to prove to them that I can play." 
Crum acknowledges that Smith is the best guard he has, but notes that freshmen are prone to mistakes. 
"He'll hav~ his ups and his downs," Crum said. "But he's 

LaBradford Smith 
got the mental toughness to fight through the downs, and the physical ability to give us the kind of guard play we didn't have last year." 
Smith's life has been lined with examples of instant excel­lence in many sports, but his first love has always been bas­ketball. 
"For as long as I can remem­ber, my brother has been in love with basketball, working 
"He has great athletic skills, is very quick with the ball, is fundamentally sound and he's a great leaper," Crum said of the 1987 Gatorade National Player of the Year. 
"That's the kind of guard they needed," Phelps noted. "He'll give them the strength in the backcourt they lacked last year." 
Louisville's strength on the front line is even more · 


1 submarines I
I *orders must be I I placed 2 days in I I advance* I 
L----------------J 
toward this moment," said his 
older sister, Annette Smith. 
"He always had posters of .Dr. 
J (Julius Erving> and Michael 
Jordan on the wall. 
"He'd watch games on tele­
vision and then run to the gym 
and try to do the moves him­
self. He's focused on this goal 
for a long, long time," she 
added. 
Smith hails from Bay City, 
Texas, which is known more for 
the football players it 
produces, such as receiver 
Hart Lee Dykes of Oklahoma 
State. 
"Bay City was definitely a 
football area, but I decided 
early that I wanted to make it 
in basketball," Smith said. 
He quit football after the 
eighth grade. 
''I kept a pair of shoes his 
size in my office in case he 
changed his mind," said Ron 
Mills, Bay City's football 
coach. "I still believe he's the 
best football prospect we've 
had here, and we've put three 
in the NFL. 
"I always told LaBradford he 
could pick up those shoes any 
time." 
Smith didn't. And now he's 
controlling the Louisville of­
fense, hoping to help the Car­
dinals pick up more victories 
this season than the 18 they had 
last year. 
sive than the new backcourt dynamo. 
"Never Nervous" Pervis El­lison, at 6-9, returns to anchor the team at center and big for­ward. Ellison averaged 15.2 points and 8.7 rebounds per game last year, blocked at least three shots in 17 contests, and was a summer standout on Crum's Pan-American squad. 
"Pervis Ellison is one of the premier players in the country," Phelps said. "To me he's one of the five best players in the country because he's so active offensively, he's so ac­tive blocking shots and he's so active on the boards." 
Tony Kimbro (11.1 points) and Herbert Crook (15.5 points, 
8.0 rebounds), both 6-7, also return to the starting lineup and, according to Phelps, will be tough to keep off the boards. 
"We've got to improve our shot selection and get on the boards if we're going to win Saturday," Phelps said. "I don't think we have the front line to match up with Louis­ville. 
"They're a powerhouse. You look at Louisville like once every four years, and they're in the Final Four. This is one of those years, and that's the kind ofteam we're up against." 
WANT TO DO BETTER ON FINALS? 
Let GARY CONRAD teach you 
self-hypnosis techniques which are 
guaranteed to increase your test scores! 
*reduce test anxiety & tension *reauce study t1me *increase memory capacity 
*develop 'photographic' memory skills 
SHOW: Mon. Dec. 7, 9:00P.M. wa•hlnatonHan 
Notrr namr Room,
SEMINARS: 
2nd ~·loor 

TOES. DEC.8 WED. DEC.9 4:00 4:00 
6:30 
6:30 
8:00 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -The word "intimidation" does not appear to be in LaBradford Smith's vo­cabulary. 
Smith, a freshman guard for the University of Louisville, has been tabbed by Coach Denny Crum to start in Satur­day's season-opener against Notre Dame in the Big Four Classic at Indianapolis. Crum has never started a pure fresh­man in the Cardinal backcourt in his 17 seasons at the helm. 
Against Notre Dame, Smith will be matching dribbles with David Rivers, a senior who is considered one of the best guards in the country. And it doesn't get any easier in the next three games as he will face Rex Chapman of Ken­tucky, Ken "Mouse" McFad­den of Cleveland State and Keith Smart of Indiana. 
So how about it, LaBradford, are you nervous? 
"I'm hoping they look at me like I'm a freshman who has to prove to them that I can play," Smith said. "I'm looking for­ward to playing against all of them. It'll show me how far along I am and how much I have to work on." 
He smiles. 
"I know they're all very good 
players, but they have to prove 
Cards 
continued from page 16 
in 1986-87, when it posted an 18­14 record. 
The Cardinals won the Na­tional Championship just one year earlier, in 1986. 
Crum's troubles last season were in the backcourt, but 6-3 freshman LaBradford Smith might just be the solution. 

Not-re Dame Communication and ~tm 
announces 

fo!" 

Atnadeus 
by Peter ShoJfe.r 
'Jluu-sd.ay, January 14 7:00P.M. Wa.ShituJton Hall l"tain ThOOtre :Friday, January 15 7;00 P.1'1,, Washiru:Jtvn .Hall~ 'Jheutre 
Call-backs Su.nd.ay, Janu.al"y 17 7:00P.M.. Washi.tuJton JfuU Ma-\.n Jlwatre 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9 8:00PM MORRIS CIVIC ALJDITORJUM 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $16.50 
T1CKCrl A.VNJ,BlZ AT ntr: CMC ALJDrTOIUWI\ BOX Of'IIK%. maKT"Mrma craLU AHD l"t())rffl VUA<II!OIAU.).I<JPDIOOIUlll 
(I!IJ<HAIIt).NmJA'OC\A l'()l(tt), CHARQ! 1Y PHOtl! l-21t·ZM·!I90 

r-----p-a-g~e-1_4______ ---------~----~---­
The Observer 

NO faces first-place Dearborn 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team can be excused for think­ing it is looking in the mirror when it faces its opponent on the JACC ice this weekend. 
In the Michigan-Dearborn Wolves, the Irish face a team that has a new coach (24-year­old Tom Anastos) like them­selves, is coming off a mediocre season (21-18-2) like themselves and, most impor­tantly, is having a great start (10-1-3) like themselves. 
"They're going to be the best team we've played so far. They're on a par with Windsor," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer. "They've got a new coach, had a success­ful recruiting year, and they're a good team in our league, so it's going to be an important series." 
Notre Dame and Dearborn will fight for first place in the ACHA in games on Friday and Saturday night at the J ACC. Ac­tion for both games starts at 7:30. 
Dearborn struggled to a 19­18-1 regular season last year 

.­
but came on in the post-season, defeating the Irish, 6-4, for the ACHA title. The Wolves have carried that momentum into this season, as they lead the ACHA with a 3-0-1 league record and their impressive overall mark. 
But the Irish are not far be­hind. Following a 10-19-1 cam­paign last year, Notre Dame has turned things around under Schafer with a 2-0-2 league record and an 8-1-3 record over­all. 
Notre Dame has played par­ticularly well recently, riding a seven-game winning streak and a nine-game unbeaten streak. Dearborn also has a nine-game unbeaten string going into this weekend's show­down. 
"I suspect they'll be close games," said Schafer. "We need to keep improving our defense. They have proven scorers, so we have to be espe­cially attentive in that regard." 
The Wolves do indeed have an abundance of proven scorers. Mike Humitz leads the team in scoring with nine goals and 22 assists. Tim Osburn (12 goals, 15 assists), Joe Burton (12, 14) and Ron Duda (12, 14) all are in double figures in both goals and assists. 
Dearborn also has Mike Klavon, the leading goalie in the ACHA. In his nine appear­ances, Klavon has a save percentage of over 90 percent and has allowed only 2.64 goals per game. 
"We've played good goaltenders before," said Schafer. "We just have to get a lot of shots. We need to get at least 30 shots off." 
Notre Dame has gotten much of its scoring from the front line of Tom Mooney, Mike McNeill and Bruce Guay. 
McNeill leads the Irish in points with nine goals and 17 assists, while Guay has a team­leading 15 goals. Sophomore Kevin Markovitz has seven goals and 13 assists, while Mooney has recorded six goals and 13 assists. 
And the defense has im­proved drastically after allow­ing an average of six goals in its first four games. Since then, the Irish have allowed less than four goals, triggering the team's seven-game win streak. 

Friday, December 4, 1987 

The Observer I Rob Regovich 
Winger Thomas Smith and the Irish hockey team try to extend their seven-game win streak against ACHA-Ieading Michigan-Dearborn in a two-game weekend series at the JACC. 
1eneed someone with 
theronfidmceofa~ 
thededicationor 
amarathoner andthe 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps \'Oiuntecr. Call us a1 1-11()0..424-.8580, Ext. 9l 
MAPLE LANE 
APARTMENTS 
Private suburban settings just 10 minutes from campus. You don't have to be Irish to enjoy life at Maple Lane Apartments. Our beautiful setting Is rernin15cent of the Emerald Isle. Maple Lane provides professors, employees, graduate stu­dents, and administrators a retreat from campus. 
In addition Wt. offer you a special discount . 
•
4 apartments per 
builf!ing, on 65 
spacious acres 
Pool, Clubhouse, Community Activities 
• 
Washer & Dryer in each apartment 
• 
Intercom entrances 
• 
Reasonably priced gas/heat 
• 
Earthtone Interiors 
• 
Country Kitchens 
• 
•call for details 
277-3731 
models and clubhouse open daily 

Friday, December 4, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Campus The Daily Crossword 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
12/04/87
All Rights Reserved 
8 Mother's title 9 Durability 10 More undulating 11 " .•. hear ­drop" 12 Mickey and 
Minnie 13 Angered 19 Silkworm 21 Of a time 
segment 24 "Iliad" herald 25 Embraced 26 Eur. capital 27 Rugged ridge 28 Chef's utensil 29 Carefree 31 Pseudonym 32 Do grammar 

wort< 45 Serviceable 54 Hop stem 
33 Curves 47 NFL team 55 Heaviness 35 Sp. queen 49 Swage 56 Clumsy 36 Science: suff. 50 Stage scenery ones 39 Absorbs 51 Move quickly 57 Confined 
deeply 52 Car 59 Apts.40 Advantage 53 Enamel base 60 Struggle 
The Far Side Gary Larson 


ACROSS 1 Suggestion 4 Sacred song 9 Learned man 
14 Chopping tool 15 Northern tree 16 Snouted beast 17 Equivocation 18 Hotel 
convenience 20 Servers for 58A 22 Checked 
dobbin 23 Plndarlc 24 Shoe service 26 Fend 29 Heat meas. 30 VIne fruit 34 Song 35 Writ of 
execution 37 -Vegas 38 Hotel lobby 
comforts 41 Disciple: suff. 42 Sulfide 
mixtures 43 Flower holder 44 Antitoxin 46 Coal scuttle 47 Desert spots 48 Judaic feast 50 502 51 Afr. journey 54 Server of 18A 
58  Meal  
convenience  
61  Eng.  river  

62 Serviceable old style 
63 Youth 
64 Morass 
65 Loves to 
_ excess 
66 Men of vision 
67 Explosive 
DOWN 
1 Perfumed powder 2 Corn Illy 3 Equal 4 Spoof 5 Declivity 6 Tumults 7 Space vehicle 


[TRANSLATION/ WERt OFF TO {;I)YS GOIN& ? TH[ BIG S/IJ)W8ALL 
WHfR£ ARE YO/J WEt£ G:JtNG-TO 
BR.£1/k AS 111/NY WINDOIJS IN D!UON
FIGHT.
I 
AS wr1cArv. \
I \ 

Friday 3:30p.m.: Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "An Intelligent Cad Modeler for the Conceptual Design Phase," by Mark Jakiela, University of Michigan, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
3:30 p.m.: Department of Philosophy Perspective Lecture, Part III Theme: The Rational Reasoner "Plan and Action," by Dr. David Gauthier, Library Lounge. 
4:30p.m.: Departments of Mathematics and Civil Engineering and the Center for Applied Mathematics Colloquium, "Domain Decomposition and Mixed Finite Element Methods for Elliptic Problems," by Prof. Mary Wheeler, Room 124 CCMB. 
6 p.m.: Army ROTC Formal Battalion Dining-In, South Dining Hall. 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey ND vs. Michigan, Dearborn, JACC Ice Arena. 
7:30 p.m. & 9:45 p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Round Mid­night," directed by Bertrand Tavernier, USA-France, Annenberg Auditorium. 
8:00p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Community Christmas Concert, Bendix Theatre, Century Center, tickets required, call 239­6352. 
8:30 p.m.: Shenanigan Chr:istmas Concert, free admission, tickets available at the door, Washington Hall. Saturday 
9 a.m. -10 a.m.: First Saturday Hour of Adoration, Sacred Heart Crypt. Sunday 11 a.m.: Swimming NDW and NDM vs. Villanova and Fordham, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 2 p.m.: Free Sunday Afternoon Guided Tour of the Snite Museum of Art, open to the public. 4 p.m.: Center for Social Concerns Spanish Liturgy, Farley Hall Chapel. 8 p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Music for Advent and Christmas, free 
admission, Sacred Heart Church.  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame Garden Salad Sandwich Oven Fried Chicken French Bread Pizza Fish Nuggets  Saint Mary's Baked Fish Parisienne Beef Tacos Cheese and Mushroom Omelette Deli Bar  

Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

Beernuts 


The love... the life ... the legend... the passion of. .. 
LA BAMBA 

Friday Saturday 7, 9, &:. 11 pm $2 Cushing Auditorium 10 pm, 12 am Brought to you by SUB 


-
... 
Sports 

Fride¥ ijesemeer e 1e97 
Brown's dislocated shoulder \kept quiet by Holtz and ND 
By MARTY STRASEN Brown was when he re-injured "I still can't lift weights," Assistant Sports Editor it in the eighth game of the Brown added, "but I'm sure it season against Boston College. will be fine by the time we get
Notre Dame head coach Lou Brown tackled Ed Duran after ready for the Cotton Bowl. It's Holtz announced Thursday that Duran picked off a Tony Rice just one of those things that youTim Brown played the last five pass in the third quarter, and have to deal with in the course weeks of the season with a Brown once again landed on the of a season." 
slightly dislocated shoulder, shoulder. 

And Brown certainly found a but &hould be ready to play in way to deal with it, as indicated 
the Cotton Bowl against Texas "It really hurt after that by the attention he's getting

A&M. 

tackle," B.rown said. heading into this weekend's "We didn't want to say much 
Brown left the field for a good Reisman Trophy presentationabout it for obvious reasons," part of the first quaFter of the in New York. Holtz said of the injury to Alabama game the very next The multi-talented flanker is 
Brown's left shoulder. "He suf­week, but the senior was right one of the leading candidates fered a slight separation, but back in the game making in the balloting for the award,
we think he will be much better things happen the rest of the which will be presented on Sat­by the Cotton Bowl." way. urday. "Timmy took a pounding," Holtz said the injury oc­Holtz said of the year Brown Holtz said he will make the curred in the sixth game of the had. "He also played with a trip New York City with
to season (against USC), but broken ring finger.'' 

Brown for the announcement of 
Brown said it was in practice "It (the shoulder) still bot­
the award given annually to the when he first felt it. hers me now," Brown contin­nation's top football player.
Brown slipped on the wet ued. "In the games I just wore grass while running a pass pat­
equipment to protect it." Holtz reiterated that Brown tern and fell directly .on the The shoulder still bothers 
"is the best player I've ever shoulder. Brown enough to keep him out seen. He was double and triple­of the two weekend practice· teamed most of the season yet
"I think that was the week of sessions the Irish have sched­he did some great things. He the USC game," Brown said. uled before final-exam week, was really pushed around.'' "It hurt, but it didn't bother me Brown said. The squad will not too much at that point." practice regularly until Dec. 26 The Assqciated Press con­
When it did start to bother in Dallas, Brown's hometown. tributed to this story. 
Irish face second strai-ght power, open Big Four against Louisville 
By MARTY STRASEN. year event, which is scheduled a 24-point performance against Assistant Sports Editor for the Hoosier Dome the next the Hoosiers. But Notre Dame four years. "We're very for­needs more than a one-man 
INDIANAPOLIS· -As if In­tunate to have the Hoosier gang against the Cards. diana wasn't enough, another Dome, where we can do some­"Keith Robinson has got to national basketball power thing like this. be a factor for us on Saturday, awaits the Irish. "It can be one of those things both offensively and on the 
The Notre Dame basketball like the Final Four, that you boards," Phelps explained. team, fresh off ,a 76-59 loss to can go witness and be a part "We've got to start going to the defending National Cham­of. If you're a basketball (Gary) Voce inside. We've got pion Hoosiers on Tuesday, con­junkie, this is one of the best to start looking for (Mark) tinues its head-first plunge into shows you'll ever see." Stevenson. And we've got to see the 1987-88 basketba}l season But Phelps is more con­if Sean (Connor) can get open Saturday afternoon at the cerned about the kind of show on the weak side." Hoosier Dome against Louis­his Irish are going to put on ville. The game (2 p.m., ABC against the 13th-ranked Car­Denny Crum's Cardinals are national television) is the first dinals, who will be looking to in an unfamiliar position com­in the Bank On&Big Four rebound from an un-Louisville­ing into this season. Louisville Doubleheader. Indiana plays like season. did not receive a bid to the Kentucky in the second contest. Senior point guard David NCAA Tournament for only the "Never Nervous" Pervls Ellison and the Louisville Cardinals will 
"This is a moment for college Rivers showed why he is con­second time in the last 11 years provide Digger Phelps and the Notre Dame basketball team with basketball," Irish head coach sidered one of the nation's best their second tough game of the young season Saturday In In-Di er Phel s said of the first-with 'n see CARDS, a e 13 diana oils. 
The bests and worsts of 19,87 Irish football 
With all those post-season awards being an­doomed. A total breakdown dashed the Irish dreams its offensive line. It was directly responsible for nounced in college football, here are a few selections of a national title. beating Purdue and Southern Cal. for the Irish. Opponent offensive player of the year -Penn Irish defensive player of the year -Ned Bolcar. 
Best game of the year -Michigan. Notre Dame's State's Blair Thomas. Pitt's Craig Heyward had After waiting his turn for two years, the junior 26-7 upset of the Wolverines set the tone for the rest the best season of any Irish opponent, but Thomas responded by leading the team in tackles with 106. of the season. The Irish served notice that they had the best game of any player against the Irish Irish newcomer of the year -Tony Rice. He had would be a force to be reckoned with in the 1987 this year. Thomas had 35 carries for 214 yards and the most impact of any ·newcomer. The Irish season. one touchdown. changed their offensive style to take advantage of 
Worst game· of the year -Miami. Notre Dame Opponent defensive player of the year -Miami's his skill in executing the offense. looked bad in every phase of the game, losing 24-0. George Mira Jr. He was simply a terror, making Irish MVP -Tim Brown. Not much of a surprise. It was the first time the Irish had been shut out 
No player in the country made teams change their since 1983 and their 169 yards of offense was the game plan as Brown did. Teams wouldn't kick to lowest total of the season. Dennis him and triple-teamed him. Th~y gave up the ball 
Best play of the year -Tim Brown's touchdown at midfield rather than let Brown beat them. So catch against Michigan. This leaping catch between Corrigan what if his stats were down? Look at all the com­two defenders made everyone think of one word, pany he had whenever he stepped on the field. Be­Reisman. A close second to this grab was Brown's cause of that alone he deserves the Reisman.
Sports Editor

second punt return for a touchdown against Mic­higan State. This one was done without a return set Game of the Week -The Irish hockey team is off and with no blocking. 17 tackles registering one sack and recovering a to its best start since 1968, the first season in the 
Best non-play of the year -Brown's spinning, fumble. Zeke Gadson of Pitt probably had the best modern hockey era, at 8-1-2. Tonight Notre Dame reverse-field kickoff return against Navy. It was year of any Irish defensive opponent. plays host to Michigan-Dearborn for first place in one of the best runs of the year, but it was called Irish offensive player of the year -The offensive the American Collegiate Hockey Association. The back by a penalty. line of Chuck Lanza, -Byron Spruell, Tom Freeman, Wolves lead the ACHA at 3-0-1 and have a 10-1-3 
Worst play of the year -The two-point attempt Tom Rehder, Jeff Pearson and Tim Grunhard. overall record. The Irish are 2-0-2 in conference against Penn State. It was great that the Irish went When most teams get in trouble, they look to their play. Attendance this year as been way up, and for it but the uarterback kee r b Rice was uarterbacks' arm. Not Notre Dame it looked to these are the bi est ames et. 
The Observer I File Photo 

Tim Brown played the last five games of the season with a slightly dislocated shoulder, Irish head coach Lou Holtz said Thursday. The shoulder still bothers Brown, and will keep him out of the Notre Dame practices the next two weekends. 





