[ACCENT: New exhibit at Snite IVIEWPOINT: Campers house freshmen 


VOL. XXII, NO. 3 

McCafferty dies after cancer bout 
By CHRIS JULKA Assistant News Editor 
Father Michael McCafferty, 40, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School, died June 12 of cancer at Saint Joseph Medi­cal Center in South Bend. 
McCafferty was one of the four finalists in last year's search for a successor to Theodore Hesburgh as Univer­sity president. 
Born on Aug. 18, 1946, in Cin­cinnati, McCafferty received a bachelor's degree in govern­ment and international studies from Notre Dame and stayed to earn a doctor of laws in 1973 and master's degree in theol­ogy in 1974. 
Making his first vows in Holy Cross order on July 16, 1967, McCafferty was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church on April 6, 1974. 
From 1974 to 1976, he served as a trial lawyer for the U.S. Equal Employment Commis­sion in Washington, D.C., and in the following year became a consultant for one of Chicago's most prestigious law firms, Winston & Strawn. The lawyer and priest was awarded a master of laws degree from Harvard in 1978. 

Fr. Michael McCafferty 
In the following year McCaf­ferty was named assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School. Author of "Medical Malpractice: Bases of Liability," published in 1985, he specialized in constitutional law, medical malpractice and product liability. 

Survivors include five sisters, Patricia Veith, Mar­garet Cronin, Aileen Geraci, Mary Dorger, and Tracy McCafferty, all of Cincinnati; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert McCafferty of Cincin­nati; and his grandmother, Mrs. Albert Harmeier, also of Cincinnati. Preceding him in death was his sister, Kathleen, who died in 1975. 

THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 1987 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


l I SAB 
becomes SUB 

. By PAT HEALY --··· News staff 
The Student Activities Board has announced it has changed its name to the Student Union Board because of incon­veniences caused by its former name. 
The only difference, said Board Manager Janel Blount, is that the "A" in SAB will be replaced with a "U." 
The renamed organization cited two reasons for the name change. First, the Board was often confused with the Office of Student Activities, an arm of the administration. Complaints or comments intended for the OSA were often misdirected to the Student Activity Board. 
The change in the SUB will be in spelling and not in func­
The Observeot.f/ke Moran 
tion. The Board seeks to ter­

Magic Carpet 

minate problems caused by its Students browse through Stepan Mall, as the struggle to furnish rooms continues. old name, most importantly, to 
its manager Blount, "to be­
come known as a student or­
ganization and not as adminis­
tration."




Iran rejects compromise 
The Board stressed that it is an organization of students ser­

Associated Press NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iran ac­cused the United States and Arab nations Wednesday of trying to impose an "ig­nominious peace," and rejected any compromise in its 7-year-old war with Iraq. Sandstorms swept the Per­sian Gulf, drastically reducing visibility. Shipping executives puzzled over the whereabouts of another convoy of Kuwaiti tankers and U.S. navy escorts, or whether it was underway at all. The comments by Prime  His remarks, reported by Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency, made no direct reference to the demand. In the United States, State Department deputy spokes­woman Phyllis Oakley said Wednesday: "Unless the Iranians officially indicate their acceptance very soon, we believe the U.N. Security Coun­cil must move ahead to con­sider enforcement measures." U.S. delegates are consulting with other members of the 15­nation council about imposing sanctions on Iran f9r failing to comply with the resolution,  nesday for a boycott of Iran that would force it "to accept a comprehensive and lasting peace" in line with the U.N. resolution. President Saddam Hussein started the war with an inva­sion of Iran in September 1980, but has been seeking a negotiated settlement for several years. The Iraqi news agency said Hussein and his ruling Revolu­tionary Command Council "called on Arab countries to further toughen the joint Arab stand against the Iranian ag­gression."  ving students, and does not want to be confused with the administration, according to Eric Timperman, general busi­ness auditor. Second, most other colleges refer to tt. e student boards as either the Student Union or Stu­dent Union Board. By adopting the "Union" into its name, the Notre Dame Board assures it­self easier communication with other outside organizations, said Blount. Even though a name change has been made, it will not affect the functions of the Student  
Minister Hussein Musavi of Iran appeared to be a reaction to an Arab League ultimatum Tuesday that Iran accept a July  which the Reagan administra­tion shepherded through the council. Iraq has not attacked ship­ Iran is ethnically Persian, not Arab. It shares the Moslem religion with the Arabs, but  Union Board, Blount said. It will continue along with its usual activities such as Wel­come Week, the Stepan Mall  
20 cease-fire resolution by the  ping in the gulf since the resolu­ Iranians belong to the minority  refrigerator rentals and its stu­ 
U.N. security Council by Sept. 20 or risk a mass break in re­lations by Arab nations.  tion was passed. Its news agency praised the Arab League action and called Wed- Shiite sect that has been at odds with the predominant Sunni branch of Islam for 1,300 years.  dent run businesses: The Cel­lar, Irish Gardens, and Ad­works.  

Trade deficit swells to all-time high 
Associated Press quarter, the previous record turnabout and rose by 2 per­Analysts saw the report as 
for a three-month period. cent. This matched a 2 percent fresh evidence that the U.S. 
WASHINGTON -The na­The first-quarter deficit was increase in prices over the per­trade deficit is not showing any 
tion's trade deficit swelled to revised from the $38.3 billion iod. improvement, even when im­
an all-time high of $39.5 billion estimated initially. The largest increase in the port volumes are taken into ac­
from April to June as a rising The new report showed that, value of imports was in pas­count. 
tide of imports overtook a despite a large decline in the senger cars from Asia. Imports "On a nominal basis, there is 
smaller increase in exports, value of the dollar which in the­of Japanese automobiles were no turn in the trade deficit, 
the government reported Wed­ory should make U.S. goods up 15 percent while imports simply no turn. That poten­
nesday. more competitive, the deficit from Korea soared 90 percent, tially spells trouble for the U.S. 
worsened in terms of both reflecting the popularity of the economy, although not right 
The Commerce Department value and volume. Hyundai line. away," said Allen Sinai, chief 
said the widening in the gap be­Imports increased $3.8 bil­All non-petroluem imports economist for Shearson Leh­
tween what America sells lion over the period to $99.5 bil­increased during the period by man Brothers of New York. 
abroad and what it purchases lion. The volume of imports, 3 percent to $89.5 billion. Petro­Sinai said one factor is that 
followed a shortfall of $38.8 bil­which in the first quarter had leum imports rose 15 percent, 
see TRADE, page 7 

lion in the January-to-March shown a slight decrease, did a to $10 billion. 

-~-----­ -~ -----~-­ 
--------------------------~--------­ 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 
The Observer 
page 2  

Ticket Sale for 


In Brief 
A Stonehenl!e replica made of old cars in 
Alliance, Neb. wilfbe comPleted now that state officials 
say it is not junk after all. The attorney general's office 
told James Reinders in July that he would have to get a 
junkyard license because "Carhenge" was a junkyard ac­
cording to state law. "At this particular point, the state 
doesn't plan to proceed with any action," Assistant Attor­
ney General Gary Welch said Tuesday. It is not the state's 
position to determine the difference between junk and art, 
Welch said. -The Observer 
"Sun-day" was declared in Kenai, Alaska after the temperature hit 80 degrees, giving peninsula workers the day off to enjoy the weather. Mayor Stan Thompson said he does not mind taking heat from critics for the policy that let workers out early Tuesday. The mayor said workers have gone home early because of the temperature only three times before during his 10 years as mayor. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Death of a Salesman auditions will be held today and tomorrow. Interested students should sign-up in 320 O'Shaugnessy. Call-backs will be held on Saturday and Sunday. -The Observer 
Jazz Band Auditions will be held 1:00 p.m. Sunday in the Jazz Loft, above the band annex. Openings are avail­able on all instruments and no prepared music is required. Amps will be provided for guitars. Contact Fr. George Wiskirchen at 239-7136 for further information. -The Ob­
server 
"Education for Empowerment: Democratic Pedagogy, Citizenship, and Common Security'' will be held 
6:00 p.m. Sunday in the Center for Social Concerns. Speakers Dominic Kulik and David Yaskulka have bicycled over 9,000 miles around the country leading workshops on how students can take greater leadership in both their education and in political affairs. -The Ob­server 
Chamber Orchestra applications are still being accepted for violin, bass, oboe, and horn. Contact Laura Klugherz at 206 Crowley for information. -Tiie Observer 
Humphrey Bo8art Night,will feature a 7 p.m. showing of "The Afncan Queen" and a 9 p.m. presentation of "Treasure of the Sierra Madre," at the Annenburg Auditorium. LIFE Film Series tickets can be purchased for $1.50 for each movie or $2 for the double feature. -The Observer 
The Classic Film Seriessponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies will feature Euripedes' Iphigenia 8 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. There is a $1 donation. -The Observer 

Design Editor ........... Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Chris Murphy Design Assistant.. . ..... Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor ............. Matt Sitzer Typesetter . Daniel Cahill Typist. . ....... Jen Conlon News Editor....... . ...... Scott Bearby ND Day Editor.... . .... Chris Hasbrook Copy Editor .. . ...... Tim O'Keefe SMC Day Editor ............. LaLa McGuire Sports Copy Editor... ... Rick Rietbrock Ad Design ........................ Mike Whitton ............................................. Pete Skiko Photographer ..................... Mike Moran 


For $20,000, would you read this entire column? 
"Would you be willing to give up sex for five years if you could have wonderfully sensual and erotic dreams any night you wished?" 
"You, your closest friend, and your father are on vacation together, hiking in a remote jungle. Your two companions stumble into a nest of poisonous vipers and are bitten repeatedly. You know neither will live without an immediate shot of anti-venom, yet there is only a single dose of anti-venom and it is in your pocket. What would you do?" 
"Given the choice of anyone in the world, whom would you want as your dinner guest? as your close friend? as your lover?" 
"The Book of Questions." 
Written by Dr. Gregory Stock ($3.95, Workman Publishing, New York), the 205-page book contains no answers. Just questions. 
For example, "If you could script the basic plot for the dream you will have tonight, what would the story be?" Or, "Would you be willing to reduce your life expectance by five years to become extremely attractive?" 
But wait. There's more. 
For slobs, there's the question, "For $20,000 would you go for three months without washing, brushing your teeth, or using deoderant? As­sume you could not explain your reasons to anyone." 
And for pet lovers, "Would $50,000 be enough money to induce you to take a loyal, healthy pet to the vet to be put to sleep?" 
For the animal and nature lover, "Assuming that complete recovery were instantaneous, would you be willing to accept a year of com­plete paralysis below the neck to prevent the otherwise certain extinction of the blue whale?'' 
And there's a question for ROTCs, too. "Would you accept $10,000 to shave your head and continue your normal activities sans hat or wig without explaining the reason for your hair­cut?" 
And for those reading this at lunch: "Would you be willing to eat a bowl of live crickets for $40,000?" 
A question for gamblers: "You are offered $1,000,000 for the following act: Before you are ten pistols --only one of which is loaded. You must pick up one of the pistols, point it at your forehead, and pull the trigger. If you can walk 

Football Notebook returns Sept. 3 
PRESENTED BY CHARLEVOIX PRODUCTIONS 

FRIDAY SEPT. 25th 8:00pm NOTRE DAME 
J.A.C.C. Tickets $15.50 

Mark Pankowski 
Managing Editor 

away, you do so a millionaire. Would you accept the risk?" 
For the cruel: "For an all-expense paid, one­week vacation anywhere in the world, would you be willing to kill a beautiful butterfly by pulling off its wings? What about stepping on a cockroach?" 
And for the unsatisfied: "If you were able to wake up tomorrow in the body of someone else, would you do so? Whom would you pick?" 
Then there are the questions that for some, have what appear to be obvious answers. For example, ask a Saint Mary's student, "Would you generally rather be overdressed or un­derdressed at a party?" 
Or ask a Notre Dame student, "Have you had satisfying sex within the last three months?" 
Can I say that? 
Anyway, you may be wondering how success­ful Stock's book has been. Well, Stock ap­parently got rich; ''The Book of Questions'' was recently on the best-seller list. 
Which brings up a question that's not in his book. Why didn't I think of it? 
Tbe Obeener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday tnrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. S.bscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STODENTS/FACOLlY /STAFF will take place TOMORROW at 9:00A.M. at the ticket windows located at gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. (Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of four (4) tickets per purchase. No assembly before 6:00A.M. (Sale for the public will take place at gate 10 of the J.A.C.C.) 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 The Observer page 3 

>•·~'·,· 

Studying Hard 
Even during the first few days of classes, Notre Dame students interest them more than academics. 



Iran-Contra source: Cables not missing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The chief of the CIA's clandestine service told Congress that Iran-Contra independent counsel Lawrence Walsh is probing the mystery of missing CIA cables alerting the spy agency in late 1985 that U.S.-made missiles were being shipped to Iran, according to testimony released Wednes­day. 
Clair George, the CIA's dep­uty director for operations, raised the possibility the cables could have been destroyed in a cover-up, but he discounted the likelihood. 
George's private testimony on Aug. 5 and 6 before the con­gressional Iran-Contra com­mittees was distributed Wed­nesday although some 

St.joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking Center in LaFortune Student Center. We're right on your way to


St.joe Bank, 

wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed. 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­


Now Open On 
thing you need from a bank, and more: 0 Free checking for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 off your first order ofchecks. 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card With access to

Notre Dame 
the CIRRUS nationwide network. 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness).

Campus 
0 Free VISA Traveler Checks. 

And ofcourse we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire transfers. 
To open your free checking account package stop by our office in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 

St. Joseph Bank 
Ifyour money could talk, it would tell you St. joe. 
LaFortune Student Center, lower level Monday-Friday 10 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 

a
~$$ 101987 St. joseph Bancorporalion Member FDIC ORRUS. 
sensitive portions remain clas­
sified and were blacked out. 
In addition to his comments 
on the missing cables, George 
also: 
Testified that the White 
House and the late CIA director 
William J. Casey ignored his 
strong complaints that un­
savory and untrustworthy 
people were helping run what 
George viewed as a total "arms 
for hostages deal" with Iran. 
Suggested that Lt. Col. Oliver North's engaging personality won him friends at the CIA but a tendency toward exaggera­tion and melodrama kept even those who liked him skeptical about things he told them. Still, he said, North had endeared himself to Casey, in part be­cause he was "action oriented" and reminded Casey of his own exploits during World War II with the Office of Strategic Ser­vices, the military precursor to the CIA. 
Declared that the North­directed diversion of arms­sales profits to aid the Contras was something the CIA could not properly be involved in. 
"You cannot take United 
States weapons and just go out 
and sell them for a profit and 
use the profits as you see fit," 
he said. "That's the gospel." 
In another development, the Republican Party's effort to capitalize on North's popularity has drawn a rebuke from Sen. Warren Rudman of New Hampshire, the senior GOP member of the Senate Iran-Contra committee. 
"If you're like me, you're very proud of Oliver North," said the fund-raising letter signed by party chairman Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr. 
Rudman, however, said in a 
letter to Fahrenkopf that North had participated in deceiving the president and other offi­cials and "these are not actions that are representative of the party of Lincoln, Eisenhower and Reagan. 


AIM HIGH 

GET THE EDGE 
Air Force ROTC • dn help you stand out from the crowd. Our train;n~ program gives men and women an equal oppor­tunity for success. You can have a responsible position right away. Why settle for anything less? 
ROTC "Air Force Ph. 239-6634" 


l!AO£RSHIP ExC!ll!NC! STARTS HERE 

-~----~~--~ 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 

African workers continue strike 

The Obsetver!Mike Monln 
Finishing up 
The Loftus Indoor Athletic Facility nears com· structure. Construction should be completed pletion as work continues on the inside of the later this year. 



Pilot error examined in crash 
Associated Press erly set the wing flaps, a basic time a pilot has forgotten to 
chore of flying critical to get perform one of the most basic 
WASHINGTON -With pilot the plane safely airborne. pre-flight tasks in aviation, ac­error developing as the most Why are such mistakes cording to reports filed with the likely culprit, the recent made? Natiorlal Aeronautics and Northwest Airlines crash is The Federal Aviation Admin­Space Administration. raising questions about cockpit istration is bringing together Since 1981, there have been discipline and how flight crews chief pilots of the nation's air­at least seven incidents re­battle complacency amid lines for a meeting today in ported through NASA's Avia­highly repetitive routines. Kansas City, Mo., to discuss the tion Safety Reporting System 
Aviation psychologists have problems, which have been the in which flaps were improperly been concerned about flight topic of aviation literature for set for takeoff. In six cases, crew coordination in commer-years. warning alarms sounded and cial airliners for years, includ-"We must return to the the takeoffs were aborted. ing increasing evidence of a basics --the basics that put all In another incident, the pilot danger of complacency in of us in the left (captain's) seat, noticed the wrong setting too cockpits that are highly in a word, our profes­late, but adjusted his takeoff automated and where critical sionalism," FAA Administra­speed and lifted off successful­chores become a matter of tor Allan McArtor recently told ly. habit. an Air Line Pilots Association Human errors in the cockpit 
Federal aviation accident in-safety seminar. also seem to have little rela­vestigators say more than 80 Since coming to the FAA last tionship to experience, accor­percent of the airline accidents month, McArtor has promised ding to specialists. involve human error. About 40 a "top-to-bottom" review of Two of the Delta incident this percent of the time the mistake pilot training to reduce the year involved senior captains. is made in the cockpit, accor-likelihood of careless mistakes. The captain of Northwest ding to statistics from the Na-"The reasons (for a pilot mis­Flight 255 was a 32-year vet­tional Transportation Safety take) are probably as exten­eran and his co-pilot was well Board. sive as the reason any person seasoned. 
A rash of embarrassing makes a mistake a distrac­"Human error has been miscues, including two that tion, fatigue, task overload or there since the Wright brothers nearly caused air tragedies, stress. It can be complacency. flew and all we can do is design brought attention to Delta Air It can be inexperience," said against it," said Henry Duffy, Lines earlier this summer. Clay Foushee, a NASA psychol-president of the 34,000-member 
Investigators believe the ogist who specializes in human Air Line Pilots Associ;~tinn likely reason for the Aug. 16 factors in aviation. crash of Northwest Flight 255 If the theory that the 
HELP FIGHT
on takeoff from Detroit, which Northwest pilots neglected to 
BIRTH DEFECTS
killed 156 people, was the fail-set their plane's wing flaps 
ure of the flight crew to prop-holds true, it will not be the first 
i····················································: 



i STEPAN MALL: i 
* *
* *
$ -everything you need for your $ * *
: home away from home : 
* * 
* * 
* * 
: Wed & Thurs, August 26-27 ! 
: 9:00-5:00 :
lolls ~ ..oet\.rtg cordS :
* ca.• r refrigerator rentals re * * . ns /) flowers *
* ubscriptto ~~ . * 
5 

: neUJspaper on-cCJn. "'~....~? Q(]ESTIONS????? :* ''lPLts b. . . * 
: ankin.q -contact J1m or Ang1e : 
* sponsored by Student Union Board at 239-7757 ! 
~....................................................• 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG, South 
Africa-The National Union of 
Mineworkers voted Wednesday 
to continue a 17-day-old strike, 
rejecting an offer by the top 
mining companies that slightly 
improved benefits but not 
wages. 

A grim-faced union general­secretary Cyril Ramaphosa read a statement prepared by union leaders at a two-hour meeting that followed daylong voting by thousands of black miners on the offer from the Chamber of Mines, which represents the top mining com­panies. 
"The telex that we transmit­ted to the chamber was to in­form them that our entire membership on the striking mines has decided not to accept the chamber's offer," Ramap­hosa said. Thousands of miners voted by show of hands in hostels and unions halls in South Africa's longest and costliest mine strike. 
"The reaction of the workers has shown that they are reject­ing the offer," National Union of Mineworkers President James Motlatsi had said earlier in an interview in western Transvaal province. "The ball is in the chamber's court." 
The management offer would have slightly improved death benefits and holiday pay, but it did not address the union's demand for a 30 percent wage hike, the main reason the strike was called. 
Union leadership did not rec­ommend approval or rejection of the offer. 
The union planned to reply Wednesday night to the man­agement offer. 
Union officials say 340,000 miners are on strike at 45 gold and coal mines in the biggest legal walkout in the country's history. The chamber puts the number of strikers at 210,000 at 29 mines. 
Representatives of the union and the chamber met for four hours Tuesday in the first con­tract negotiations since the strike began Aug. 9. 

Margarita ville at CHI-CHI'S 
choose from our classic lime, strawberry, rasberry, and fuzzy naval flavors 
ole! 
• 


NOW HIRING 
Waiters, waitresses, and bartenders 
Friendly Working Atmosphere 
FLEXIBLE HOURS--WILL WORK 
AROUND CLASS SCHEDULE 
Apply in person 16599 Cleveland Rd. 272-3672 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 The Observer page 5 


7 governors seek Auto Pact 

A Notre Dame student takes time out from classes to drive his cares away yesterday with a video driving machines in LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Associated Press 
LANSING, Mich. -The governors of seven carmaking states, complaining that the current treaty is "distorting in­vestment and trade to the bene­fit of Canada," are urging the 
U.S. government to negotiate a new Auto Pact. 
"We believe that an equi­table agreement which lowers the existing ... barriers should enhance the economies of both countries," the governors of Michigan, Missouri, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio and Wisconsin agreed in a statement released Wednes­day. 
''The U.S.-Canadian Automo­tive Agreement represents a departure from free and fair trade between our nations," the governors said. "The Auto Pact in its present form cannot continue as the basis for a long­term bilateral trading relation­ship in automotive products be­tween our two countries." 
The governors said the 1965 treaty "limits our ability to at­tract new investment and hinders our companies' access to the Canadian market." 
The Auto Pact allows some motor vehicles to pass duty­free between the United States and Canada. 
It is not a formal part of free­trade talks between the two na­tions, but members of Congress have said an agreement on autos will be important in win­ning congressional approval of any free-trade agreement. 
Under the ground rules of the negotiations, which are being held this week in Ontario, a pro­
posal must be presented to 
Congress by Oct. 5. 
Although the pact is not a for­
mal part of the negotiations, 
"all trade issues between the 
U.S. and Canada are being dis­cussed," said Gary Holmes, spokesman for U.S. Trade Rep­resentative Clayton Yeutter. 
"The Canadians don't want to discuss (the Auto Pact)," he said. "We say that you can't have comprehensive negotia­tions and take things off the table." 
The governors want Canada to: -Extend the benefits of duty­free automotive trade only to 
U.S. manufacturers, and not to those of Japan or other countries. 
-Put U.S. vehicle parts sup­
pliers on an equal footing with 
Canadian parts companies by 
dumping Canadian content re­
quirements. 
-Eliminate an "illegal export subsidy" that lowers the amount of duty paid by auto companies that purchase Canadian parts for export to the U.S. 
"This is not a new position but it increases the emphasis and highlights dissatisfaction on the U.S. side," said Paul Wonnacott, a University of Maryland economics professor and author of a studv on the U.S.-Canada auto issue. 
"I would assume that the negotiators will pay attention to the governors," he said. 
Under the pact, U.S. car­makers must make one car in Canada for every car sold there. They also have to use at least 60 percent Canadian parts 
and labor for each car; 50 per­cent for each truck. 
General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. all build cars and trucks in Canada for sale in the United States, including all of Chrys­ler's small minivans. 
The pact has long been un­popular among U.S. autoworkers because it secures jobs for Canadians without equal protection for Americans. For instance, GM is closing 11 plants in the United States but keeping open some weak plants in Canada. 
In addition, Canada has given Japanese automakers generous incentives --includ­ing tariff remissions --to open plants there. 
Canadian plants are planned by Toyota Motor Corp., Hyun­dai Motor Co., and a GM-Suzuki joint venture. Honda Motor Co. started making cars in Canada in November 1986. 
Canada makes up less than 10 percent of the North Amer­ican auto market but about 30 percent of the Japanese and Korean plants in North America will be built there. 
Many in the U.S. auto indus­try fear that means that Asian makers will try to use the pact to ship Canadian-made vehicles into the United States duty-free, circumventing re­strictions on exports from Japap to this country. 
The heads of state forged the agreement while in Michigan last month for a meeting of the National Governors' Associa­tion. 

Survey: Businesses not ready to deal with AIDS 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A majority of the country's top businesses are unprepared to deal with AIDS despite growing evidence the fatal disease could eventually cost corporate America bil­lions of dollars, a survey released Wednesday found. 
Of 100 Fortune 1000 compan­ies surveyed in late July, only 29 had policies for dealing with employees with AIDS, and nine were considering adopting guidelines, according to the survey by the Boston office of TeleSearch Inc. 
"It is almost as though most of these companies don't want to admit that AIDS exists or that it will only affect the 'ot­her' company," said Ellen C. Kinlin, president of TeleSearch, a national execu­tive search firm owned by Fidelity Investments. 
Three of the companies sur­veyed said they would fire employees who contracted ac-
Ill~~~~~ ...... , 
i!:CLUB 
SENIOR CLUB SPECIALS: 
N 

Fri: Fuzzy Navels...$1.00 Import Draft ...$1.00 Sat Tangueray & Tonic~ ~ .$·1.00 Corona...$1.00 
* membership cards & application forms available at the club during business hours 
Hours: 9:00 pm -2:00 am Wed-Sat 

quired immune deficiency syndrome, while 25 said they might do so, the survey found. 
Sixty-seven companies said they would not fire employees with AIDS, and five refused to answer the question. 
Of the 14 companies requir­ing employees to have regular medical checkups, only one re­quired an AIDS test, TeleSearch said. 
One-third of the companies said they expected health in­surance costs to increase dramatically because of AIDS, while 25 companies said insur­ance costs would not increase, according to the survey. 
AIDS eventually could cost major corporations billions of dollars because of increased health insurance costs, lost work time and production and related costs, the TeleSearch report said. 
TeleSearch refused to release the names of the com­panies it surveyed, saying it promised them confidentiality. The surveyed companies are in New England, New York, Washington and Chicago and represent manufacturing, in­surance, health care, utilities and consumer products, the company said. 
A random survey of a dozen major companies Wednesday by The Associated Press found varying efforts to deal with AIDS, which attacks the body's ability to fight disease and in­fection. The disease primarily is spread through sexual con­tact and the sharing of infected needles by intravenous drug users. 
Several company spokesmen said constant developments in research and the uncertainty among government and the in­surance industry about how to respond to the disease were partly repsonsible for what TeleSearch termed the corpor­ate world's lagging response to dealing with AIDS. 
Raytheon Co., a major defense contractor which has 76,000 employees worldwide, does not have a formal AIDS policy, said spokesman Ed Powers. 


FRESHMAN SHOPPI.NG TRIP 
Opportunity To Buy Those Things You Now Find You Need 
Saturday, August 29, 1987 t:oo P.M. 
BUSES LEAVE FROM STEPAN CENTER 
Tickets Available at The Freshman Year Of Studies Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 
NO CHARGE 
The Observer
page 6 


AP Photo 

rejoining the race for the Democratic presiden­tial nomination, Hart only said that he would have to think things over.
ternational Airport. Concerning rumors he was 

Laxalt out of nomination race 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Former Sen. Paul Laxalt announced Wednesday he is withdrawing from the race for the 1988 Re­publican presidential nomina­tion after "a careful and real­istic assessment of our financial situation.'' 
Laxalt, who has raised more than $1 million, made the an­nouncement in a statement issued about 7 p.m. EDT Wed­nesday by his campaign com­mittee. 
In the statement, Laxalt, a 
former Republican senator 
from Nevada, said his commit­
tee has "thoroughly test~d the 
political and financial waters 
for the past four months." 
"While the political response 
was encouraging, the financial 
outlook was not as bright," he 
said. 

"We are a family of very modest economic means, and I wasn't about to embark on a campaign that would have led us into a financial black hole," he said. 
Laxalt has said that he wanted to have $2 million in the bank by Oct. 1. In the state­ment, he said that "even if our projections for fund raising had been met, the money, in my opinion, would have been in­adequate to conduct a viable presidential campaign." 
"As chairman of Ronald Reagan's three presidential campaigns, I have learned to be very realistic when it comes to political fund raising. A care­ful and realistic assessment of our financial situation caused me to do what I think is right for the Laxalt family." 
Laxalt, 65, never formally entered the race but said on April28 that he was forming an exploratory committee and that his decision to run was "as close to final as one can get," with financing the only ques­tion to be answered. 
Laxalt, a close friend of Pres­ident Reagan, said he wanted to succeed him in the Oval Of­fice because "there is much un­finished work to do." 
His departure from the GOP race leaves three announced candidates, former Delaware Gov. Pierre S. Du Pont IV, former Secretary of State Al­exander Haig, and Rep. Jack Kemp of New York, in the com­petition. In addition, likely can­didates are Vice President George Bush, Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, and the Rev. Pat Robertson. 
Army grounds new helicopters 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Army on Wednesday grounded its en­tire fleet of new AH-64 Apache helicopter gunships, describing the action as a precautionary measure in the wake of a fatal crash last week. 
The service said the directive applied to all 264 Apaches now in the inventory and will remain in effect until an inves­tigation is completed of an Aug. 21 crash at Fort Rucker, Ala. 
An instructor pilot was killed and a student pilot seriously in­jured in last week's crash. 
"This action is a precaution­ary measure taken as the result of the crash of an Apache for what appears to be a mechan-
Textbook 
ATLANTA -A federal ap­peals court Wednesday reversed an Alabama judge's order that had banned 44 textbooks from Alabama public schools on the grounds they promoted a belief in secular humanism. 
In allowing the textbooks to remain in use, a three-judge ical failure in the tail rotor swashplate assembly," the Army said in a statement. 

The statement said the Army was still investigating the cause of the failure. After the investigation is complete, the Army said, instructions would be issued on what would be needed to bring the AH-64 back into service. 
The Aug. 21 crash was the third major accident involving AH-64s during the current fis­cal year, but the first to produce a fatality. The other two accidents also occurred at Fort Rucker, on Aug. 10 and July 9. 
Earlier this summer, the Army ordered all Apaches tem­porarily grounded for modifi­cations to an engine wiring har­ness. Those modifications took only about four hours per helicopter, however, and the fleet was quickly returned to service. 
The Apache is replacing the Cobra helicopter gunship as the Army's primary attack helicopter. Designed to kill enemy tanks, the Apache is also a twin-engine copter and is loaded with Hellfire and Hydra 7 missiles and a 30mm cannon. 
It is built by McDonnell Douglas Helicopters, formerly Hughes Helicopters, and costs about $11.5 million. The Army plans to buy a total of 573 of the aircraft. 
ban reversed 
panel of the 11th U.S. circuit cleared the way for the Court of Appeals ruled that textbooks to be used in Ala­
U.S. district Judge Brevard bama classrooms. Hand's order had turned the The appeals panel said there First Amendment requirement was no question that the pur­
that the government be neutral pose behind using 39 history on the subject of religion "into and social studies books was an affirmative obligation to secular, and that selecting a speak about religion." textbook that omits a topic for 
The ruling, which also or­non-religious reasons is differ­dered Hand to dismiss a law­ent from requiring the omis­suit brought by parents, sion of material. 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 

Reagan pushes for arms agreement 
Associated Press 

LO~ ANGELES -President Reag n on Wednesday ap­plaud d West Germany's wil­
lingn~s to destroy its Pershing 
1-A m ssiles and declared that the viet Union must not "erec additional barriers" to a sup power agreement on the global elimination of 
inter~diate-range missiles. 
In a speech to the Town Hall of Cal ornia, a civic organiza­tion, eagan also challenged the S viet Union to bring a spirit of "glasnost" or open­ness ti its military affairs and said past U.S.-Soviet arms pacts ave been "too often vio­lated by the U.S.S.R." 
The address, billed in ad­
vance by White House officials 
as a major assessment of U.S.­
Soviet relations, came as Chan­
cellor Helmut Kohl said in 
Bonn that West Germany will 
destroy rather than modernize 
its Pershing missiles if the su­
perpowers scrap all their 
medium-and short-range mis­
siles in the Intermediate 
Nuclear Force, or INF, class. 
The Soviet Union has said it 
would not sign a disarmament 
agreement unless it includes 
the 72 Pershing 1-A missiles, 
which are owned by West Ger­
many but have nuclear war­
heads controlled by the United 
States. 

"We can wrap up an agree­
ment on intermediate-range 
nuclear missiles promptly," 
Reagan said. "There are still 
issues to be worked out. Our 
delegation in Geneva has 
already pointed the way to sim­
plifying verification require­
ments now that we have agreed to the total elimination of U.S. and Soviet INF missiles." 
But the president, without mentioning the name of his So­viet counterpart, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, called on the Kremlin to smooth the way toward an arms accord. 

He said the United States has "repeatedly pointed out that the last-minute demand by the Soviets concerning West Ger­man Pershing 1-A missiles was without foundation.'' 
"Earlier today, Chancellor 
Kohl removed even this artifi­
cial obstacle from considera­
tion," Reagan said. "We are 
therefore hopeful that the 
Soviet Union will demonstrate 
that there is substance behind 
the rhetoric they have repeated 
so often of late --that they 
genuinely want a stabilizing INF agreement. 
"If so, they will move to meet our proposals constructively rather than erect additional barriers to agreement." 
A senior administration offi­cial said before the speech that "there was absolutely no pres­sure" brought to bear on the Bonn government by Washing­ton. 
The president's speech ap­peared to be a new attempt to take the offensive in the long­running public relations struggle with the Kremlin. Gor­bachev has scored some major victories over Reagan, with recent polls in Europe showing that a majority of people believe the Soviet leader -­rather than Reagan --is a champion of peace. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 1s accepting applications for the following position: 
Copy Editor News Staff Reporter 
For further information contact Chris Bednarski or Jim Riley at The Observer (239-5303) 
Notre Dame Students: 
LOfTS 
* 
Meets University Standards 

* 
All Bolts, NO NAILS! 

* 
Stained and Finished 

* 
Installation Available 


On Sale At: Stepan Center Aug. 26 ~ 29 
9 am .. 5 pm 
ONLY Including Tax 
$60 

~------------~---'~---------·----.-----·,_------~--~~--------~~------~--~~,~----~--~~------~....~..r............~-~-~!-....~,P.~.~---..~2 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 
The Observer page 7 

Fun fear 
Children run away from a 10-feet-tall lizard built for World Expo 188 in Melbourne, 
AP Photo 

Australia. The frilled-neck creature is part of the "light fantastic parade" planned for the festival. 
Museum workers on pig dig 
Associated Press 
TASWELL, Ind. -A team of Indiana State Museum workers hopes to find enough prehis­toric pig bones near the Patoka Reservoir this week to erect a skeleton to grace the museum's planned Earth Sciences gallery. 
The "pig diggers" are muck­ing around in a cramped Craw­ford County cave in a week­long excavation for the extinct peccary bones. 
Two young spelunkers dis­covered the 10,000-year-old bones in the cave owned by Vic­tor Megenity last fall. 
Ronald L. Richards, curator of natural history, calls the find significant. 
"Finds of peccaries are com­mon in other places, but not in Indiana. They commonly traveled in herds, so we think this could be Indiana's big statement," said a mud-caked Richards, who heads the team of nine. 
Unlike Richards and Ball State University archaeologist Don Cochran, most members of the museum crew are novice cave diggers. 
To get to the deep pit where Mark Spencer of Louisville, Ky., and David Reynolds of New Albany found the bones, the workers must crawl and squeeze through a narrow, 40­yard long passageway. Once at the pit, they carefully scoop up mud and clay into black plastic buckets, which are hauled or pulled by ropes to the mouth of the cave. The buckets then are carried about 100 yards to an area where Richards and Cochran oversee a crew that washes the mud through mesh screens in search of tiny bones. 
"We've got parts of at least three individual peccaries, and 
Ourthree-year and " two-yearscholarships won't 
make college easier. 
Justeasiertopayfor. 

~RMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAIN IN(-: ClIRPS 
it should build up quickly in the next couple of days as we get closer to the bedrock," Ric­hards said. 
When peccaries roamed the southern Indiana more than 10,000 years ago, the forests and their inhabitants had little resemblance to what is found today, Richards said. 
"There would have been more spruces, some pines and more sporadic areas of gras­sland. The winters wouldn't have been as cold and the sum­mers wouldn't have been as hot. There would have been a lot of large animals, elephants, mastodons, mammoths. And the Indians were just starting to come across the Bering Strait," he said. 
Richards and his crew are trying to make that era more understandable to today's Hoosiers. 
"We'll be here until Satur­day. A good cave digger knows you're not done until you hit bedrock," said Richards. "I al­most hope I don't find anything else. I've got so much work to do I'll have to live to be at least 125." 
Memories of plane crash linger on 
Associated Press 

MAPLE GLEN, Pa. -The survival of 4-year-old Cecilia Chichan from the crash of Northwest Airlines Flight 255 helps give the rest of her family the strength to cope with the deaths of her parents and bro­ther, a priest said at their fu­neral Wednesday. 
Michael Cichan, 32; Paula Cichan, 33; and their 6-year-old son, David, who were among the 156 people who died, were remembered during Mass at St. Alphonsus Roman Catholic Church, where the couple was married. 
"Talking about Cecilia will always remind us of the miracle of life. We believe God spared her to give the rest of her family the strength to bear the cross," the Rev. Andrew Robberecht said during the ser­vice. 
Three matching, chestnut­brown caskets rested before the .altar adorned with more than a dozen flower arrange­ments. About 350 people packed into the church, 25 miles from Philadelphia. 
The Cichans had been visit­ing relatives in the area and were en route to their home in Tempe, Ariz., when the plane crashed Aug. 16. 
''Today as in the past few days, we all stand together as a shocked and stricken group of people. Death brings us face to face with the deepest ques­tions of faith," Robberecht said. 
The priest, who is also a teacher at nearby Archbishop Wood High School, married the Cichans and baptized their two children. He described them as "a young, beautiful family with a promising future." 
Cecilia's condition was upgraded to fair Wednesday at the the Burn Center at the Uni­versity of Michigan Hospitals in Ann Arbor, Mich. 

Detective: Loan all in a day's work 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -When an 
Edinburgh police officer 
loaned a Cincinnati college stu­
dent $20 earlier this month, he 
never expected to see the 
money again. But an envelope 
arrived with a crisp $20 bill this 
week --from the White House. 
"It shocked me," detective Capt. Ron Beier, 41, said Wed­nesday. 
The envelope contained $20, an autographed photograph of President Ronald Reagan and a note on White House station­ery. 
It all started one afternoon earlier this month --but Beier couldn't remember exactly what day. Beier was sitting in his office at the Edinburgh Police Department, about 25 miles south of Indianapolis, when the secretary rang him that him the White House was on the line. 
"I said, 'Sure, the White House on the corner,' " said Beier, who also serves as as­sistant police chief. "Then I said, 'Tell them I don't know a thing about the Iran-Contra thing.' " 
Trade 
continued from page 1 

foreign manufacturers are not raising their prices to reflect the weaker dollar fully, taking smaller profits instead. At the same time, U.S. companies are not reducing their overseas 
Rocco's Pizza 

South Bend's "Original Pizza" 
and a· tradition with students 

Only a few blocks from campus Families weicome 
We serve the best in Itaiian and American Cuisine "try us and You'll agree" 
'--.....___23•7S•t.•Lot-lis-Blv-d._______23-3-2-464___,~ 
But he could tell the secre­
tary wasn't joking, and when 
he picked up the line, the per­
son on the other end identified 
himself as William Feezle of 
the federal Office of Manage­
mentand Budget in Washing­
ton. 
Feezle's son, Chris, had gone 
to the Johnson County Horse 
Park near Edinburgh to visit a 
friend at the Pan American 
Games equestrian competition 
and had run low on cash. So 
low, in fact, he couldn't get 
back to Cincinnati, where he at­
tends college. 
Beier said Chris called his dad from the Dairy Queen res­taurant in Edinburgh and asked that he get some cash to him right away. Feezle called the police department and asked that somebody loan Chris $20. 
"I met him at the Dairy Queen and handed him $20 and went on about my business," Beier said. "I didn't put a whole lot of stock in it. I knew somebody needed some help and I helped. When a person gets in a rough spot, you just kind of jump in and help them out." 
prices to take advantage of the more competitive dollar, but in many cases are raising them, Sinai said. 
"U.S. comnanies are l!oinl! for greater profits instead of more market share, and that's a big mistake,'' he said. 
The dollar is worth only 40 to 50 percent of what it was worth in mid-1985. But despite this depreciation, export prices in the second quarter of 1987 ac­tually rose 1 percent, Wednes­day's report showed. 
Exports, overall, increased in the April-June quarter by $3 billion to $60 billion. Analysts said this was a bright spot in the otherwise gloomy report. Exports had decreased just slightly in the first quarter to $56.99 billion, down from $57.02 billion in the last three months of 1986. 
Some analysts argued that, despite the widening of the trade gap, if recent inflation is taken into account, the trade figures actually show a slight improvement. 

.s a 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 
page 8 

Campers eliminate housing difficulties 
"Greetings, freshmen, and welcome to the University of Notre Dame Campground and Trailer Park. On your left, you'll see the latest in recreational vehicles. We have the newest styles, colors, and options, aH with easy financing. On your right, you'll be dazzled by our amazing selection of new and pre-owned mobile homes. You'll feel right at home in any ofthese models and there's always plenty of room for group study in our economical double-wides. '' 
Mike Wilkins 
here, there and back 

Each year for the last six years I've ' r been a little nervous about returning to Notre Dame. It's not just the thought
r 
of going back to school, it's more aes­

~ 
thetic worries: What will my dorm be like? Will there be lots of things to do? Will the campus be as beautiful as I remembered it? 

This year, I got a special surprise. At first I thought there was a football game going on. I could barely control myself. It's always hard waiting for the home opener to finally roll around, but this year I thought maybe we were playing preseason games or something like that. But as I got closer to campus, I realized this was no football game. What was going on? Everywhere I looked, gorgeous campers and mobile homes. They were everywhere: around the stadium, behind the ACC, in the stu­dent parking lots-it was really in­credible. I had no idea what they were doing here. 
After giving it a great deal of thought, I realized what had happened. This year, as usual, a surprising number of freshmen were without dorm rooms. But this year, unlike past years, the administration had actually come up with a good idea on how to deal with this problem. They had brought in RV's and mobile homes to house the fresh­men until more permanent housing could be found. 
P.O. Box Q 
Priest's life mirrored in beauty of campus 
Dear Editor: 
Even the ducks of St. Mary's Lake gazed in mezmerized silence upon the. inspiring tribute to this great man. 
At his ordination at Sacred Heart Church only thirteen years ago, Father Michael McCafferty embarked upon a ministry that led thousands of us closer to Christ. At his funeral this past sum­mer, a small fraction of the people he touched formed a line over one-quarter of a mile long to lead him from that same church to his final resting place. 
Our Lady's campus was never more beautiful than on the day Father Mike was laid to rest. The afternoon sun serenely glistened off the water and il­luminated the landscape. Meanwhile, the Voice of God, barely audible at first, reached an almost deafening roar in the form of a warm, brisk breeze that embraced the throng approaching the cemetery hill. It seemed that God had offered us a glimpse of the place where Father Mike now peacefully resides, a 
Doonesbury 

place far more beautiful than even this, as a way of comforting us in our grief. 
Father Mike taught us many lessons, and he taught them well. He taught us to utilize our God-given abilities for the benefit of others. He taught us that the faith which we have nurtured here will mean nothing if we do not carry that faith with us into our personal and pro­fessional lives after we leave. He taught us that the strongest allies in the battle against adversity are courage, hope, a sense of humor, and an irrepressible belief in God. 
He also taught us to love Notre Dame. Father Mike cherished this university. One of the greatest tributes we can pay Father Mike is to cherish Notre Dame as he did. As the new school year begins, let us remember never to take for granted the time we spend together in the Notre Dame community, for it is far too short. 
I am not convinced that Father Mike's untimely death had a purpose. But I am convinced that his life cer­tainly did. And it's up to us to prove it. 
Tim McLean Notre Dame Law School 
This is really a great idea. Just think how excited young Johnny-who had never been to Notre Dame before-must have been to drive proudly down Notre Dame A venue and see row after row of the newest and most stylish forms of temporary student housing. Think of the joy his parents must have felt knowing their son was not going to be stuck in some old overcrowded dorm but was going to be living (and driving to class, most likely) in this sleek new home at no extra charge. The campus could not have looked more beautiful. 
As an extra bonus, Notre Dame Se­curity had cleverly made sure all the incoming freshmen would be aware that some of their mates would be taking advantage of this temporary housing by rerouting all traffic coming into Notre Dame out past this suburb on wheels. Even North Quad residents, who may have missed this attraction by using the Juniper Road entrance, got the opportunity to see these beauties. No sense rushing right to your dorm when you can spend half an hour looking at the University's latest at­tempt to show students just how impor­tant they are. 
Even students who live off-campus are fortunate enough to get involved in this new arrangement. Now, instead of spending fifteen boring minutes walking from the Senior Bar parking lot to the middle of campus, off-campus students can take their time brousing through this happy neighborhood. The jaunt into class is nothing when you realize all the administration has done to make the journey pleasant as well as possible. Watch out for those wood chips when they're wet though-yuk! 

There are a couple of problems with this arrangement. How will parietals be enforced? Will RA's patrol the RV's, turning back tent flaps to make sure no one has snuck off into the woods? What about privileges? Should the lucky stu­dents who get a camper be allowed to have bonfires just because they're out­side? And what about the alcohol policy? When is a camper that sleeps six so full that it is considered a party? 
There are also long-term problems to the Rod Quad. When football season comes, will the students living there au­tomatically get the best parking places? Or will they have to packup and leave by 8:00 a.m. days of home games? And what about night games? What if some students want to go to bed early? Will MUSCO have to dim certain lights so some of our freshmen can get a good night's sleep? Other sports may suffer too. Will we ever have another home basketball or hockey game? 
Despite these minor drawbacks, I think this camper idea is one of the best new plans Notre Dame has ever come up with. It's great for tourism, it solves the housing crunch, and it gives the grounds crew a much needed vacation. The incoming freshmen must feel great seeing the campus all prepared just for them. I know I'm proud knowing that the people in the administration think enough of me and my fellow students to do whatever it takes to make sure we're all comfortable. I just wish they would have thought of this when I first came here. I would have never worried about coming back. 
Mike Wilkins is a third-year-law stu­dent and a 1985 Notre Dame graduate. 



Garry Trudeau 
Ihe Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll 
Quote of the Day 

"Use what talents you pos­sess: the woods would be very silent if no birds sang except those that sang best." · 
Henry Van Dyke 

Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Advertising Design Manager .......... Michael Whitton Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Development Manager ................. Michael Shannon 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent ./fA 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 page 9 
'Life' photo exhibit featured at Snite 

Kim Yuratovac Assistant Features Editor 
The glamour of Marilyn Monroe, the tension of the Korean War and the dawn of the 1950's era of stability are among the Images that made "Life" Mag­azine so popular during the years Immediately after the Second World War. 
"Life: The Second Decade, 1946-1955" Includes photos that reflect the post-World War II era. The exhibit Is on display until Oc­tober I I In the O'Shaughnessy Galleries of the Snlte Museum of Art. 
"Life" Introduced a brand of photojournalism that needs no words to evoke the power and real feeling of the events that have Influenced the latter half of the twentieth century. 
"The first "Life" exhibit was 
such a success," said Peggy Tol­
bert. Educational Coordinator at 
the Snlte, "that we began Inquir­
Ing about the second exhibit 
before It was even finished." The 
first "Life" exhibit contained fa­
mous photos from World War II. 
The Snlte Is one of "The Second 
Decade's" last stops. It has been 
traveling to museums around 
the country for the last four years. 
"People who have seen the ex­hibit In other museums have complimented us on our dis­play," said Tolbert. "They say It looks different because we have memorabilia from the era and we have used color, music and videos to accent the photos." 
Many of the Innovations the Snlte used were made possible by a grant from the Declo family of Elkhart. Indiana. 
"We have to pay for the ship­ping of the exhibit so normally we wouldn't have the money to add the extras we have In this exhibit." said Tolbert. "But be­cause of this grant we were able to add Items that complement the photos and make the era be­come more real." 
Among the dated relics are a Coke bottle machine, a 1950's party dress, 3D glasses and magazines. "I think our display Is Interesting because people are able to touch things to get a bet­ter Idea of the time period," added Tolbert. "In most exhibits people are not allowed to touch any of the art. Because we en­courage people to get Involved with this exhibit. they are less In· 

hlblted  and  they enjoy  them·  
selves a lot."  
A  collection  of  old  "Life"  

Magazines are part of the dis­play. There Is also a 30 minute video featuring interviews with former "Life" correspondents and a 10 minute video produced by Pam Falkenberg of the Depar­tment of Communication and Theatre, combining "Life" head· lines and advertisements of the era. 
The exhibition of 200 photographs, collected from the 520 Issues betweeen I 946­1955, Is part of the largest In­dexed picture collection In the world. The photos were chosen by Doris O'Neil, "Life's" Director 
of VIntage Prints and formerly Chief of the "Life" Picture Collec· tlon, from the 156,000 photos taken In that era. 
The pictures "were not chosen as a review of photojournalism, nor as a guide to world events of the period," O'Neil writes In the exhibition catalogue. "This Is, rather, a selection of some of the most remarkable and com­pelling Images of that time, regardless of subject matter. Since "Life" was dedicated to covering national and world events, however, many of these pictures do reflect the decade's history. Another major area of the magazine's concern ·-the human condition --Is reflected In many more." 
According to Tolbert the Snlte's exhibit has received many positive responses. "There are always people In the galleries to see this exhibit." she said. "They seem to like the way we have or­ganized the exhibit, using music and videos to enhance the dis­play." 
Aside from the display Itself, the Snlte Museum Is sponsoring 
Margaret Bourke-Whlte<:ourtesy of Ufe Magazine 

a related film series, featuring films of the era. "Rear Window," "The African Queen," and "Brlgadoon" are among the films already shown. 
September .3 is scheduled as Marilyn Monroe night and Sep­tember 10 is Marlon Brando night. September 17 Is 3D night. September 24 features the films of James Dean and the October I theme is teen rebellion. All films are shown in the Annen­berg Auditorium in the Snite. 
To celebrate the success of the exhibit, the Snlte is sponsoring a Fifties Party and Sock Hop on Friday, September 1 I from 8 to 1 I p.m. at the Snlte. Admission Is free and Tolbert is encourag­ing students to attend and wear Fifties clothing to kee,e with the theme of the party. 
A lecture series also accom­panies the exhibit. Upcoming lectures Include a. talk with W. Eugene Smith at noon on Sep­tember 8 In the O'Shaughnessy Gallery, a lecture by Cornell Capa, executive director of the International Center of Photog­raphy and photographer John Phillips September 16 at 7:30 
p.m. In the Annenberg Auditorium, and a seminar led by Capa and Phillips on Septem­ber 17. 
Guided Gallery Tours will be available for museum visitors who wish to know more about the exhibit. Tours begin In the O'Shaughnessy Gallery and are 45 minutes in length. Upcoming tour dates are September 13 and October 4. 
"To see life; to see the world; to eyewitness great events; to watch the faces of the poor and the gestures of the proud; to see strange things machines, armies, multitudes, shadows in the jungle and on the moon; to see man's work" is part of the prospectus that "Life" created to shape its first Issues. This theme Is carried through the exhibit which contains some of the most dramatic and Influential photos of the time period. 
The magazine was first pub­lished as a weekly on November 23, 1936. The last weekly issue was published on December 29, 1972. Monthly editions began in October, 1979. A 1948lssue cost 20 cents with a yearly subscrip­tion at $6. 
The "Life" exhibit Is one of several exhibits featured at the Snlte each year. Museum hours are Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Sunday I p.m. to 4 p.m., and Thursday 10 a.m to 8 p.m.. The museum 
is closed on Mondays and major holidays. Admission free.  all Is  
Calvin and Hobbes  



Bill Watterson 
RATS. I CAN\ IBl. MV GVM FRClA M'{ SILL~ Nm': 



page 10 
, Sports Briefs 

The wrestling team has the lOth-best freshman class coming in according to the Amateur Wrestling News. Mark Gerardi of El Cajon, Calif., was also ranked among the top-10 incoming freshmen in the nation. -The Observer 
' 

Three ND athletes have been honored in the annual GE'DCoSIDA Academic All-America balloting, conducted by the nation's collegiate sports information directors. Senior baseball outfielder John Loughran was named to the second-team baseball squad. Senior fencer Charles Higgs-Coulthard and senior lacrosse attackman John McLachlan were District Five second-team selections in the at-large division voting. -The Observer 
Tim Brown will appear on the cover of Sports Illustrated's college football preview issue. Notre Dame is rated 18th in the publication's preseason poll and Brown is touted as one of the leading candidates for next year's Heisman Trophy. -The Observer 
The Yankees have made a pair of trades for the pennant drive. New York sent left-handed pitcher Dennis Rasmussen to the Cincinnati Reds in exchange for right­handed pitcher Bill Gullickson. They also acquired utilityman Jerry Royster and infielder Mike Soper from the Chicago White Sox. The Sox will receive pitcher Ken Patterson and a player-to-he-named later. -Associated Press 
The Women's Soccer Club will hold its first practice today at 4:30p.m. on Stepan Field. For further informavon call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting today at 5:30p.m. in the LaFortune Theatre. No experi­ence or athletic ability required. Direct any questions to Tim O'Connell at 234-5986. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club will have daily rides leaving from the bus stop at 4 p.m. All experience levels are welcome. A formal meeting will be scheduled later. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Off-CampusFootballislookingforanyoneinterested in joining the O.C. team, coaching or being a captain. Those interested should call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obser­ver 
Fallon ends with win 
The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1987 
The Ohio State Buckeyes will be fighting for the Big Ten title without their star receiver, Cris Carter. Carter, who is eligible for the NFL 
Carter gets cold shoulder 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame tennis team captured the Eastern Col­legiate tennis championship for the third consecutive year to end Tom Fallon's coaching career on a winning note. 
The Irish compiled 29 points to defeat second-place Boston College (20.5 points) and third­place Rutgers (18.5 points). 
Brian Kalbas won the A 
Singles Flight for the Irish and Dave Reiter took the B Singles competition. 

Reiter teamed with Mike Wallace to take the A Flight doubles and the team of Kalbas and Paul Daggs took the B Doubles division. 
The Irish finished with a final mark of 23-10 in Fallon's final season to give him a career record of 517-200. During his coaching career, Fallon guided the Irish to 20-win seasons 10 times. 
Classifieds 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Cris Carter, the Ohio State wide receiver made eligible for a supplemen­tal NFL draft after admitting taking payments from agents, has been barred from working out for scouts at league facilities, his lawyer said Wed­nesday. 
NFL spokesman Dick Max­well said the league had noth­ing to do with the ban. 
Mitch Frankel, a lawyer with a Boston-based firm called Im­pact, said Carter had planned to work out Tuesday at the Hoosierdome in Indianapolis, but had been barred by officials at the arena, home of the NFL's Colts. Earlier, Frankel said, workouts in St. Louis and at the Cowboys facility in Dallas had been called off. 
"We just can't seem to find a suitable facility. We don't get much cooperation any way we turn," said Frankel, who added that Carter might have to per­form for the scouts informally at a park or vacant lot. The Hoosierdome was the workout 
NOTICES 
Foreigner's Bible Study If you know nothing or little about Christianity, but want to learn, this is for you. Foreigners especially welcome, we will try to speak simple English. For more information, campus-mail your name and address to Andreas Krueger, 310 Dept. of Mathe· matics, or call 8·10 p.m. 287 4855. 
······························································· 
DOES your group need aT-shirt design? How about T·shirts or other imprinted sportswear?? I work thru a local T-shirt shop--reasonable prices. Call John at 1662. 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: ONE DISGUSTINGLY UGLY PLANET OF THE APES DOLL AT CAMPUS VIEW LAST WEEKEND. IT WAS WEARING AN EQUALLY UGLY DRESS. CLAIM SOON AND WE MAY STOP DOING DISGUSTING THINGS TO IT. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219-291-7153. 
House For Rent. Convenient to bus line. 5 bedrooms, 2 full baths, 2 large 
living-Study rooms. $6501nonth plus utilities. Could rent as 2 separate 2 

..___FO_R_S_A_LE----Jj
bedroom units $4oomonth utilities in· eluded. Call for appointment 232-9239 . .,.. PLY. 4
'80 HORIZON DR. 
······························································· HATCHBACK. DEPENDABLE TRANS· 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOD PORTATION. 1.7 LITRE, 4 CYL. ENG.,

NEIGHBORHOOD 288·09551.255-3684 

M, AC, DELUXE WINDSHIELD WIPERS, CRUISE CONTROL, H.D. 
... ·FuRNisHED HOus·Es· NEAR No SUSPENSION, TINTED GLASS, AMFAIR PRICES 277-3097 683·8889 RADIO, ELECT. REAR WINDOW DEFROST. COMPLETE SERVICE RECORD AND SERVICE MANUAL IN·HOUSE FOR RENT-7BEDROOMS,2 CLUDED. NO OIL BURNER, GOODBATHS,OFF STREET TIRES. PRICE $950 FIRM. 288-0366.

PARKING,WASHER&DRYER, 2 REFRIGERATORS. NEAR ND,RENT NEGOTIABLE. MAY BE RENTED BY ROOM. CALL DEBBIE AT 288·6740 

BEFORE 8PM. 76 DUSTER, runs great, 76,000 miles, FM cassette, $500 232·6244. 
LOOKING FOR WHEELS? IT GOT ME 
THRU NO. IT CAN GET YOU THRU NO 
TOO. 73 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE. BEST 
OFFER. 277-6910 AFTER 5. 
SITIER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 
WANTED 
P.M. TUES. THRU FRI. CALL AFTER 8:30P.M. 259·9110. 

For Sale: Compugraphics Unisetter Jr.,
EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut 

font strips, and width cards. Direct all 
Delivery has openings for delivery 

inquiries to the Systems Manager of The 
drivers. Start at $4.00 per hour¢tips¢gas 

Observer. 
reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips 
are paid daily.) We offer flexible 
schedule, meals, and a great work en­

virement. You must be 18 years old with Movie posters for dorm rooms. 
a car, insurance, and drivers licence. All kinds. Large selection. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em· 277-5441 
player. Call 277-2662. 

setting last January for players eligible in last spring's draft. 
Carter, an All-American as a junior, had been considered a possible first-round draft choice next season. 
He petitioned the NFL for ad­mission after being ruled in­eligible for the 1987 college season. He admitted he ac­cepted a $5,000 loan from player agents Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom in May, 1986 and subsequently accepted $1,800 more from them. 
The NFL, citing the threat of a lawsuit, announced last week it would "reluctantly" hold a supplemental draft this Friday for Carter and Charles Glad­man, a Pitt running back who lost his eligibility for refusing to cooperate with an investiga­tion of agents. 
The league said Tuesday that four other players would be el­igible for selection Friday: Dan McFadden, a defensive back from Miami; Paul Miller of Illinois Valley Community College, whose position is un­known; Marquis Pleasant, a wide receiver from Southern Methodist; and Chester Savoie, a defensive back from Nicholls State. 
Maxwell said none of the four had been illegally involved with agents but added that he didn't know why they had peti­tioned for the draft. The league customarily holds several sup­plemental drafts a year for players who have completed their school work or used up their eligiblity in some other fashion. 
But the announcement of the Carter-Gladman draft set off a storm of protest among college coaches, some of whom said they were considering barring NFL scouts from their cam­puses. They claimed that by al­lowing the players to be drafted, the NFL was tacitly condoning illegal activities. 
The league claimed it had no option because the colleges had declared the players profes­sionals and it could not deny them the means to try to earn a living. 
Ten NFL teams have already said they won't participate in the supplemental draft. 
The a..-Notre Dame office, located on U.third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified ~lltng from 18 Lm. until 4 p.m., Menday through Friday. The a..-Saint Mary'a offtce, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts claslfteds horn 1~ p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next4ay claalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claalllfleda must be prepaid, either In per.1011 Of' by !Nil. The -.ge Is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
.___I_T_IC_K_ET_S__. 
HELP !I I need three Michigan State GA's. Please call 283-2059 and ask for Paul. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
TOM REHDER:! wish I could've gotten to know you last year. Maybe this semester. .. Have a great season. An ad­mirer from 20thc.WW class. 
The Observer is now accepting applica­tions in the BUSINESS DEPARTMENT. A job that will look great on your resume. SEE TRACY. 
You think it's easy getting job offers in accounting? It is if you work for us. SEE TRACY. 

VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP. We are a group or students atudylng the Bible together. We welcome you. Call Karel 256 1684 alter 5. 

Freshmen & Sophmores: SCHOLAR· SHIPS SCHOLARSHIPS SCHOLAR· SHIPS. Full tu ition plus $100 a month. Army ROTC. No obligation. Call Mark Gatto at 239-6264 
Days Inn Employee of the Month 
Dave Cowden 
WAKE UP! 

Delivery & Counter Help Wanted Yellow Submarine 272-4453 
FUN IN THE SUN FUN IN THE SUN FUN IN THE SUN AT ST. JOE'S BEACH OJ AND FREE CHRIS' ICE CREAMI!I 2PM·6PM TODAY TODAY TODAY (8PM THEODORES IN CASE OF RAIN) 
BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY TONS OF SANDIII FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY 
FOR LEADERS ONLY: Want to see if you've got what it takes? Great lead er· ship training with the opportunity to earn a full scholarship plus $ 100 per month spending money. Call Mark Gatto Army ROTC 239 6264 
SENIOR CLASS HOT TUB PARTY STARTS AT 7PM-TUBS CLOSE AT 8:30PM B.Y.O.TOWEL B.Y.O.TOWEL B.Y.O.TOWEL 
AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
····························································· 
SENIOR CLASS LUAU IS SOLD OUT SENIOR CLASS LUAU IS SOLD OUT 
SENIOR TIX APPLICATIONS WANTED FOR $$$ CALL 2376 
Colleen " Holly " Wagner : Do you return phone cells from upperclassmen ? wonder sometimes ... 
------~~·-----------~~·--~--~--~~----------------~--~--------------·----~----------~~.---~-------.-------.~~----~ 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 
Bennett seeks pact similar to Bosworth 
Associated Press 
ANDERSON, Ind. In­dianapolis Colts owner Robert Irsay and the agent for holdout rookie linebacker Cornelius Bennett will meet for contract talks within the next week, Jim Irsay, general manager of the NFL team, said Wednesday. 
Jim lrsay, speaking to reporters while the Colts prac­ticed at Anderson College, said his father had recently telep­honed agent Richard Woods and that the two had "a good conversation." The two agreed to meet perhaps as early as Friday, but no later than Wed­nesday in Chicago, Jim Irsay said. 
The Colts withdrew their most recent contract proposal, valued at $4 million with incen­tives over five years, at the end of June, after Woods was quoted as saying he wanted the linebacker from Alabama to receive a contract worth a single dollar more than that given Brian Bosworth, the rookie linebacker out of Okla­homa. Bosworth recently signed with Seattle for $11 mil­lion over 10 years. 
Woods said Monday he still wanted Bennett to receive a contract comparable to Bos­worth's. Jim Irsay, however, said the Colts would be reluc­tant to sign such a long-term pact. 
"I wouldn't rule anything out, but I would say that doesn't make a lot of sense to us," Ir­say said. "I think we can do something to satisfy everyone if he (Woods) is willing to be flexible." 
"We'd be starting at Square A," Irsay added. 
The Colts, meanwhile, released three players Wednes­day, leaving their roster at 66 heading into their first home 
preseason game against Hous­
ton Saturday night in the 
Hoosier Dome. 
Released were defensive end Booker Reese, a free agent from Bethune Cookman; nose tackle Isaac Williams, a free agent from Florida State, and wide receiver Byron Williams, a free agent from Texas­Arlington. 
Sixty-four players are con­sidered healthy enough to play against Houston, Coach Ron Meyer said, but probably only 45 to 47 will see extensive ac­tion. 
Meyer said he is attempting to "project who will make the final roster." 
Meyer is planning for a 45­man roster even though a new labor agreement might in­crease that number. 
"I think you have to plan for 45 and anything after that is a bonus," said Meyer. 
Meyer said the Oilers, who like the Colts are 1-1, will pose a good test for his team's of­fense. 
"Houston is very much an improved team," he said. "They're very much a pressing 
team, a very aggressive team. They like to make the big play defensively. They very easily could be 2-0 in preseason play.'' 
Meyer is looking to improve his team's success rate on third downs. The Colts have con­verted only seven of 31 third downs (22.6 percent). The coach said the conversion rate is even worse on third downs with more than 1 yard to go. 
"It's a horror show," Meyer said. "All three of our turn­overs (two fumbles, one inter­ception) have come in third­and-long, and a majority if not all of our sacks have occurred in those situations." 
Attention 
Veteran Sports Writers 

There will be a brief meeting for all returning Observer sports writers at 7:30 tonight in the Observer office to discuss fall assignments. Questions -call Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303 
CARPET SERVICE OUTLET 
Room Size Remnants from $60.00 

(219) 234·7478 BUS. 
234·023~ 
2655:5 West U.S. 20 South Bend, IN 46628 3 Miles West of Mlchlana Airport 

WELCOME BACK 
STUDENTS 

Indiana's #1 keg and import beer store 

m-6805 

The Observer 

AP Photo 

Mark Duper and the high-powered Miami pass-England Patriots in the AFC East this year. ing game will be gunning for the favored New 
Patriots overwhelming choice to capture AFC East title 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. -Passing should be the focus in the AFC East this season. Passing the football, not passing the Patriots. 
In a division loaded with strong quarterbacks, weak defenses and questionable run­ning attacks, New England fig­ures to have little trouble repeating as champions. 
"As far as overall depth, we definitely are in the driver's seat," says Bill McPeak, the Patriots' pro scouting director. "I don't know how you could pick against this ballclub." 
New England, with the top­ranked pass defense in the AFC last season, is best equipped to handle the division's quarter­backs. Indianapolis, Buffalo and the New York Jets were the NFL's three worst teams against the pass, while Miami allowed the seventh most throwing yards. 
The Dolphins, behind quar­terback Dan Marino, had the league's top passing attack last year. New England, with Tony Eason, was fourth. New York, with Ken O'Brien, was ninth. 
They have some dangerous receivers to throw to -Stanley Morgan and Irving Fryar in New England, Mark Duper and Mark Clayton in Miami and AI 
NDSMC 
Toon and Wesley Walker in New York. 
In Buffalo, quarterback Jim Kelly should benefit from his first full training camp with the Bills. In Indianapolis, Gary Hogeboom guided the Colts to victories in their last three games after missing 11 weeks with a shoulder injury. 
The division's running games are not as potent. 
New England was last in the NFL in rushing yards last season. Miami had the fewest carries. Indianapolis lost last season's top rusher, Randy McMillan, for the season when he was hit by a car last April. 
In the draft, Buffalo's top four choices, Miami's top two, Indianapolis' first and three of the Jets' first four were defen­sive players. 
The Dolphins figure to start the same secondary that con­tributed to their weak pass defense last year, while the Bills expect to have at least two new starters in the defensive backfield. 
The Patriots' secondary, featuring Raymond Clayborn, should stay the same and could be helped by the return of de­fensive end Ken Sims, a poten­tially strong pass rusher, from back surgery. 
page 11 

Moreover, New England's division rivals are hurt by in­jury. 
Marino should be ready for the season opener with the Patrots after dislocating a finger in the opening exhibition game. But linebacker John Of­ferdahl, who made the Pro Bowl as a rookie last year, is gone for at least the first six games with a torn btcep. 
The Jets are missing defen­sive stars Joe Klecko, Marty Lyons and Lance Mehl and McMillan leaves the Colts with­out much of a running game. 
Holdouts by first-round draft choices -linebacker Cornelius Bennett in Indianapolis and de­fensive lineman John Bosa in Miami -won't help either. 
New England has great depth at nearly every position and new faces should improve its ground attack. 
Correction 
Because of an editing er­ror, a headline in yester­day's issue incorrectly said that Alvin Miller has been declared ineligible for foot­ball. Miller chose not to use his fifth year of eligibility. 

The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Typists (2) 
For further Information contact Jim Winkler at The Observer (239-5303) 

--------~ ----~---~-----------·----~--~-~-~------­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1987 
Henderson drug use detailed in book 
Associated Press Landry, Henderson said none of his former teammates will 
DALLAS Former talk to him about his book. linebacker Thomas "Hol­"They didn't call me in lywood" Henderson says in his prison so why should they call autobiography, "Out of Con­me now?" said Henderson, who trol," that he used drugs while served time after pleading no playing for four different NFL contest to sexual battery and teams and sniffed a cocaine­bribery in California. laced inhaler during Super Bowl XIII as a Dallas Cowboy. He was released last Oct. 15 
Henderson, a former first­and now gives lectures on the round draft pick of the Cow­evils of drug abuse. boys, traced his drug use from his days with Dallas to San In his book with co-author Francisco, Houston and Miami Peter Knobler, Henderson says to a stint in a California prison. that at the Super Bowl game 
"I began the book four years against Pittsburgh in 1978, he ago. It started out as an angry put 1.5 grams of cocaine pow­project. I wanted to expose the der into an inhaler and mixed NFL, the Dallas Cowboys, and it with water. all the superstars who did He said he was wired on drugs. I didn't get a deal on that cocaine his last day as a Cow­type of program," Henderson boy after "the terrible towel" said Wednesday in a telephone incident in 1979. interview from Los Angeles. 
! 
"Now I've changed my life. In a losing cause to the Wash­This is now the real story about ington Redskins, Henderson Thomas Henderson. My book is mugged for the national televi­brutal to Thomas Henderson. sion cameras on the sidelines, It's not a self-serving yearbook waving the towel in front of the like some you read. I hope it lens. does a service to the public." j 
On the flight back to Dallas, AP Photo 
! 
Henderson, who gets a check Henderson said he drank gin The once-powerful Dallas Cowboys have fallen the fading mystique by revealing be used for $700 a month from the NFL "and snorted a noseful of coke on hard times. Former Cowboy linebacker cocaine during a Super Bowl while he was a for a neck injury, said he hopes in the lavatory." Then he Thomas 'Hollywood' Henderson has added to member of the team. what happened to him helps shouted he wanted to be traded 
someone else. "I know there and cursed some coaches. Farrell ever faced in the During the streak, that are skeptics out there. But I've majors, Aug. 18 in Cleveland, started July 16 against Califor­
End
been chemically free for three The next day Landry ordered and Molitor singled. nia, Molitor was 68-for-168, a years and 10 months. I don't Henderson to his office, where Molitor's 39-game hitting .405 average. For the season,
continued from page 16 
even drink a beer when I play Landry tearfully told him he streak was the fifth-longest in Molitor is batting .365 but does golf. " was being put on waivers. Hen­Yount then popped up to Tabler modern major league history. not have enough plate appear­Although he visited recently derson announced his retire­to end the inning. Molitor was trying to tie Ty ances to qualify among the with Cowboys Coach Tom ment the next day. Molitor was the first batter Cobb for the fourth-longest. leaders. 
CITY-WIDE 
LIQUORS 
Ch;huahu~~~~~79/
Corona 6-pack. ..$4.99 
Molson 6-pack. ..$3.29

3825 N. Grape Rd. 
Becks /$4.79

Mish, Ind. 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm. LIQOOR 
Meister Brau 24 cans...$4.99 Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm. _47 Old Milwaukee reg. and lt. 24 cans...$5.99 272-2274 _dRikahoff (vodka) 1.75...$7.99 Budweiser reg. and It 24 cans...$7.59 ff Silver Crest (gin) 1.75...$8.99 ~ 
Strohs 30 pack...$7.39 Old Thompson (blend) 1.75...$9.99 Lite 24 cans...$7.39 Castillo (rum) 1.75...$10.99 Miller 24 cans...$7.89 H. Walker Peach Schnapps 1.75...$9.99 
Miller Draft 24 cans...$7.89 
W<"IKPirc:: Canadian 1.75...$9.99 

Hamms reg. and lt. 24 cans...$5.99 Kessler 1.75...$9.99 Blatz 24 cans...$5.99 Giro Tequila 1.75...$10.99 Michelob 24 cans...$8.99 Michelob 24 btls. reg. and lt. ..$9.89 
WINE 

Bartles & Jaymes 4-pack ...$2.59
BEER RETO 
Carlo Rossi 4 ltrs...$4.99 M&R Asti 750 mi. ..$7.99 
Budweiser 24 return btls...$7.99 Rhinelander 24 return btls...$3.99 Lite 24 return btls...$7.99 Miller return btls...$7.99 
KEGS 
Old Milwaukee I 5.6 gals...$22.99 Busch 15.6 gals...$26.99 Budweiser 15.6 gals...$33.99 
Lite 15.6 gals ...$32.99 
University Mall 


Thursday, August 27, 1987 The Observer 
page 13 
NL roundup 

Cards keep winning 
Associated Press 
Pirates 6, Reds 5 

ST. LOUIS-Vince Coleman PITTSBURGH AI homered, singled, doubled and Pedrique's run-scoring bloop scored the winning run on single with two outs in the bot­Tommy Herr's grounder in the tom of the ninth inning lifted seventh inning, lifting St. Louis the Pittsburgh Pirates over 
.. to a 5-4 victory Wednesday over Cincinnati 6-5 Wednesday the Houston Astros that gave night, extending the Reds' the Cardinals their fifth win in season-high losing streak to six six games. games. 
Coleman's second major­The defeat dropped the third­league homer in 1,914 plate ap­place Reds five games behind pearances staked St. Louis to San Francisco in the National a 4-2lead through five innings. League West. The Cardinals outfielder's Johnny Ray started the ninth third run of the game snapped with a double off reliever John a 4-4 tie after Billy Hatcher hit Franco, 7-4, and moved to third a two-out, two-run double off on pitcher Jeff Robinson's Ken Dayley, 8-4, in the top of sacrifice. With the infield and the seventh. The winning outfield drawn in, John Can­pitcher was Juan Agost, 1-1. gelosi grounded out to Ozzle Smith and the St. Louis Cardinals stayed a 5-4 victory over Houston. 
Jack Clark hit his 34th homer shortstop for the second out. 
four-and-a-half games in front of the Mets with of the year for St. Louis, the Pedrique then singled just "Kevin is a good player and a local South Bend team Satur­most by a Cardinals player beyond the reach of second 
since Richie Allen hit the same baseman Kurt Stillwell intowe're going to miss him," says day morning. 
Frosh 
Grace. "But he didn't do the Lowney has been nursing a number in 1970, in helping St. right field to give the Pirates a continued from page 16 things that a returning starter hamstring injury. He says "it's Louis overcome Houston's three-game sweep. 
"They're not intimidated by needs to do." just a matter of time" before early 2-0 lead on Glenn Davis's Robinson, 7-8, pitched the the upperclassmen," he says. Also missing will be sopho­he is back to 100 percent. 21st homer. ninth for his first victory since joining the Pirates last Friday. 
"But they are also fitting in more stopper Pat McClanahan, 
• Mets 3, Dodgers 2
well with all the guys on the who asked to leave the team Midfielders Paul LaVine and NEW YORK -Keith Hernan­
team." for personal reasons. Kurt Roemer have also been dez hit a home run in the sixth Giants 2, Phillies 0With the influx of freshmen Several other starters from hampered by sore hamstrings, inning to extend his hitting PHILADELPHIA Bobhas come the cuts to upperclas­last season have missed prac­but both are playing, as is for­
smen, and this year's edition of tices because of injuries. ward Pat Murphy, who has streak to a career-high 16 Brenly's two-run homer with Irish soccer will be without a Two players have suffered been hampered by a sore groin. games and Ron Darling two out in the eighth inning starter from last season's serious injuries, forcing them pitched six-hit ball for 7 1-3 in­gave San Francisco a 2-0 vic­squad. to miss practice for the next Most players cut from the nings as the New York Mets tory over the Philadelphia Sophomore midfielder Kevin few days. Keeper Tim Har­varsity roster have been placed beat the Los Angeles Dodgers Phillies Wednesday night, the Kade was cut after a less-than­tigan went down with a knee on a junior varsity squad. 3-2 Wednesday night. Giants' fourth straight victory. spectacular series of practices. injury last Thursday, and Grace has picked Walt Weber, Darling, 11-8, has won seven The win gave the Giants a 
Grace said he was disappointed midfielder Paul Gluckow coach of the St. Joe Kickers-a of his last eight decisions. He two-and-a-half-game lead over in Kade's approach to the fall strained the ligaments in his local team -to coach the junior struck out eight and wakled Houston in the National League season. right knee in a scrimmage with varsity squad. three. Randy Myers came on West. 
after Darling allowed a single Phillies starter Shane and walk in eighth. Rawley, who had held the Roger McDowell relieved Giants to two hits and struck Myers and got his 20th save. out a career-high 10, gave up a 
The Dodgers used five bad-hop single to Chris Speier pitchers in the eighth inning, with two outs in the eighth. the most in 60 years, and the Brenly then hit a 1-0 pitch over teams combined to use eight the left-field fence for his 15th pitchers in the inning, setting home run. a major-league record. Reliever Don Robinson, 9-6, 
The losing pitcher was Bob pitched 11-3 innings to earn the Welch, 11-8. victory. 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat E..t 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB St. Louis 75 51 .595 Detroit 75 50 .600 New York 71 56 .559 4.5 toronto 75 51 .595 .5 Montreal 69 56 .552 5.5 New York 71 55 .563 4.5 Philadelphia 66 61 .520 9.5 Milwaukee 66 56 .540 7.5 Chicago 62 62 .500 12 Boston 61 65 .484 14.5 Pittsburgh 56 71 .441 19.5 Baltimore 57 69 .452 18.5 
West Cleveland 48 79 .378 28 
w..t San Francisco 66 60 .531 Houston 65 62 .512 2.5 Minnesota 87 62 .519 Cincinnati 63 65 .492 5 Oakland 65 61 .516 .5 Atlanta 55 69 .444 11 California 63 84 .496 3 Los Angeles 56 71 .441 11.5 Kansas City 62 84 .492 3.5 San Diego 52' 74 .413 15 Texas 60 66 .476 5.5 
Seattle 59 67 .466 6.5 

Weclneaday'a Results Chicago 53 73 .421 12.5 Atlarlta at Chicago, ppd. St. Louie 5, Houston 4 Weclnellday's Results New York 3, Loa Angeles 2 Chicago 5, Boston 3 San Francisco 2, Philadelphia 0 Detron 10, Minnesota 8 Pittsburgh 6, Cincinnati 5 Kansas City 3, Texas 0 
Montreal 6, San Diego 5, 12 Inn. Milwaukee 1, Cleveland 0, 10 Inn. 
Knollwood Country Club 
is looking for part-time waiters and waitresses for the formal and informal dining rooms. 
Can virtually guarantee $6.00 ;hr. no experience Is necessary, will train. 
Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment 
or apply in person between 3 and 5 p.m. Tues-Frl. 
Knollwood is located at 166.3.3 Baywood Ln. (just off Grape Road) 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, August 27, 1987 
AL roundup 

Tigers beat Twins 
<\ssociated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Pinch­
hitter Matt Nokes lined a two­
run single with two outs in the 
ninth inning and Chet Lemon 
followed with his second homer 
of the game Wednesday night, 
rallying the Detroit Tigers over 
the Minnesota Twins 10-8. 
Jeff Reardon, 6-7, relieved to 
start the ninth with a 6-5 lead 
and walked leadoff batter Dar­
rell Evans. Bill Madlock 
walked with one out and Alan 
Trammell's infield single 
loaded the bases with two outs. 
Nokes then hit an 0-2 pitch to 
right field that put Detroit 
ahead 7-6 and Lemon con­
nected for his 16th home run. 
Dan Petry, 8-6, got the vic­
tory and Willie Hernandez got 
the final out for his seventh 
save. 
The victory gave Detroit sole 
possesion of first place in the 
American League East, one­
half game ahead of idle 
Toronto. Minnesota lost for the 
eighth time in nine games and 
had its lead in the AL West cut 
land. 
White Sox 5, Red Sox 3 BOSTON -Carlton Fisk hit two homers for the 19th time in his career and rookie Bill Long allowed only two hits for six in­nings Wednesday night, 

Special to the Observer 
The following deadlines have been announced by non-varsity athletics: 
•Entries 
for the slow pitch 16" softball tournament are due in to the NVA office by Wednes­day, September 2. The tourney will be limited to the first 32 teams to enter. 

•The 
entry deadline for men's football is also September 2. There is a $40 entry fee per hall and no roster will be accepted without that fee. 

•Women's 
football rosters are due September 2 in the NVA office. A $35 fee is also due when the roster is submitted. 

•All 
entries for men's tennis, women's tennis and mixed doubles are due in person at the NVA office on September 2. Every entrant must call NVA (239-6100) on Monday, Septem­ber 7 to check their opponent and time. 

•All 
students interested in par­ticipating in the biathlon must sign up in the NVA office by Thursday, September 5. The biathlon will consist of a half mile swim and a 2 mile run, and there are individual and team events. 

•A 
scuba diving course will be offered at a cost of $80 per stu­dent over five four-hour ses­sions starting September 6. Those interested should attend an information meeting at 6:00 on Wednesday, September 2 in Room 218 of the Rockne Build­ing. 


Proof of insurance is re­quired for participation in both contact and non-contact sports. Forms and more information are available in the NVA office. 

leading the Chicago White Sox to a 5-3 victory over Roger Clemens and the Boston Red Sox. 
With two out in the second inning, Fisk hit a towering shot into the left-field screen in left for his 16th homer of the season and No. 297 of his career. 
Harold Baines led off the fourth with a single and two outs later Fisk lined a drive that just cleared the 37-foot high wall for another homer. 
Long, 8-6, had a string of 14 1-3 scoreless innings snapped in the seventh. Clemens, 13-8, had won five straight decisions .. 
Royals 3, Rangers 0 
KANSAS CITY-Danny Jack­son pitched a four-hitter and Kevin Seitzer snapped a seventh-inning tie with a two­run double as the Kansas City Royals beat the Texas Rangers 3-0 Wednesday night. 
Jackson, 7-15, struck out seven and walked five en route to his ninth complete game, helping the Royals snap a three-game losing streak. 

to one-half game over idle Oak-,....----------------------------------------------· 
BefOreyouchoose along distance service,take aclose look 

You may be thinking about 

choosing one of the newer 
carriers over AT&T in order to 
save money. 
Think again. 
Since January 1987, AT&Ts 

rates have dropped more than 
15% for direct-dialed out-of­

state calls. So they're lower than 
you probably realize. For infor­
mation on specific rates, you 
can call us at 1 800 222-0300. 
And AT&T offers clear long 

distance connections, operator 
assistance, 24-hour customer 
service, and immediate credit 
for wrong numbers. Plus, you 
can use AT&T to call from 
anywhere to anywhere, all over 
the United States and to over 
250 countries. 
You might be surprised at 

how good a value AT&T really · is. So before you choose a 
long distance company, pick 
up the phone. 
-
-

ATaT 
The right choice. 

Thursday, August 27, 1987 
The Observer 
page 15 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Pen 

5 Helots 10 Certain bills 14 Old Gr. ccin 15 Coast or tower 16 Spoken 17 Negligent li­
brary patron? 

No direction in life? 
Well, your worries are over. Come join The 
19 II. wine city 
20 Cattle genus 21 Sea birds 
Observer, the campus daily where you can 
live, work and sleep In the office if you really 
22 Camera calibration
want to. Some people do. Besides, if you work 
23 Spit
at The Observer, you can read all the Far 
25 Brief 27 -mode
Sides for the next month and impress your 
28 Grapefruit 
32 Masts 35 Gawker at 
celebrities? 38 Manor man 39 Show worker 
friends with your omniscience. 

40 Sp. ladies 41 Seafaring 
commentator? 43 Downright 44 Cadiz coin 
The Observer. 
Make friends, 

45 Br. runner 
Sebastian 46 Skating figure 8 New 49 "The Last -" 9 Turk. neighbor
newspapers, 

53 Transactions 10 Breakfast 56 lroquoians bread buff? 58 "We -the 11 Once, once 
World" 12 Treaty org. 59 Wheel's rod 13 -of the 60 First In line? tongue 62 Hideaway 18 Hull parts 63 Roman official 22 Amphibian 64 Ban 24 Nurse 65 "-corny,as followers? 
Kansas ... 26 "Grand 66 Chemical Ole-" compound 29 Poetry's Pound 
and maybe even money. 
Dinner Menus 
67 Paradise 30 Regan's parent 
DOWN 31 Russ. city 1 Ty and Lee J. 32 Rebuff 2 "An angel 33 Cornbread 43 "March King" 52 Wading bird
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
writing in -34 Rainbows 45 One who 53 Surrealist of gold" 35 -Spade gums up? Salvador 3 Ninny 36 --Ia-Ia 47 Pays attention 54 Test
Roast Turkey Ground Cheddar Beef with Cheese Sauce 
4 Wapiti 37 Blyth or Jillian 48 Characteristic 55 Inter .:.....
Pepperoni Pizza Turkey Broccoli Divan 
5 -Nevada 39 Aerie site 50 Appraised 57 Otiose 
6 Tied 42 NBA's 51 Mountain 60 Haw's partner 7 Cords Birdsong ridge 61 Contraction
Mushroom Stroganoff Vegetable Quiche 
Seafood Newberg with Patty Shell Deli Bar 


Comics 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Mark Williams 
I r5 N/(£OF YOV STIIRT1N6­





Student Union Board presents: 
* 
OJ on St. Joe's Beach * Location changed 

* 
Free Chris' Ice Cream to Fieldhouse Mall


BACK TO SCHOOL 
Tonight 7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 pm $2:00 
Engineering Auditorium No Food or Drink allowed 



Sports 
Thursday, August 27, 1987 
page 16 

Freshmen impress in soccer workouts 
By PETE GEGEN come in the form of freshmen. Assistant Sports Editor Many of Grace's recruits have a good chance of making the Ever since practice began 25-man roster, including Larry Aug. 18, the players have been Scanlon from New York, Steve pouring in to the Notre Dame Archer and Mike Drury from soccer practices. New Jersey, and Paul and Mike 
By this weekend, about 75 LaVine, a twin combination players will have tried out for from St. Louis. Other names in­Irish soccer squad. Twenty clude Rob LaMear, Tom Con­players have already been cut naghan, Danny Stebbins and or sent to the junior varsity Mike Sattan. team, which has been resur­''The frosh are pushing the rected after a one-year hiatus. upperclassmen on the team for 
With enough players to start their positions," says Grace. "I a six-team league, Head Coa~h think (junior captain) Johnny Dennis Grace has had nis Guignon said it best when he hands full. said that no one's position is 
''The large numbers are a safe on the team." pain, but it's worth it to find a Senior captain Steve Lowney diamond in the rough,'' says agrees. Grace. "So far we've had a 
The ObserveO'File Photo
bunch of surprises." Large numbers of players trying out for the
see FROSH, page 13
Most of the surprises have Notre Dame soccer team has meant intense starting lineup. Pete Gegen looks at some of competition for spots on the roster, and in the the incoming talent in his story at right. 
McGraw, Murphy, Schafer join Irish coaching ranks 
Special to The Observer tion at Notre Dame is going to within a three-or four-year I status, and Schafer's squads me a month and a half agobe a real challenge," McGraw span." finished with three-straight before I had gone out and 
Three new faces joined the said at her hiring, "but it's a McGraw replaces Mary DiS­seasons of 20 wins or more. chopped all of my winter Irish coaching ranks this sum­challenge that I'm very excited tanislao who resigned last ''When I first learned the po­firewood.'' mer in a vacation period about. Notre Dame has spring to pursue an MBA at sition was open, I was very ex­marked by comings and developed an excellent pro-Northwestern. Joining cited about returning," said Murphy replaces Larry goings. New to Notre Dame are McGraw on the bench this Gallo as coach of the Irish women's basketball coach season will be Liz Feeley, who baseball squad. He coached the Muffet McGraw, baseball was a graduate assistant for last two seasons at Claremont­coach Pat Murphy and hockey McGraw at Lehigh last season, Mudd-Scripps College where coach Ric Schafer. and Bill Fennelly, an assistant his teams finished with a com­
Missy Conboy, a former Irish under DiStanislao last year. bined record of 45-34-1. In his women's basketball player, Schafer becomes only the second year as coach of the was recently named an assis­second hockey coach at Notre Stags, Murphy also managed tant athletic director. Dame since the program was Class A Tri-Cities Triplets of 
The announcement that resumed 19 years ago by Lefty the Northwest League. McGraw would be Notre Smith, who resigned at the end Dame's third women's basket­of last season. Schafer, a ball coach came May 18. former player and assistant for Additionally, Murphy is also 
the coach of the Dutch national 
McGraw . spent the last five Smith, spent the last seven years as the head coach at years as the head coach at baseball team. This summer, Lehigh where she posted a Alaska-Fairbanks where he Murphy coached Holland to the record of 87-41 (.679) including posted a record of 105-97-3 E:uropean championship and the 1985-86 East Coast Confer­(.520). In his last three years has a shot at managing the ence championship. as coach of the Nanooks, the squad in the 1988 Summer 
"I think accepting the posi-program was raised to Division Olympics in Seoul. 
Streak ends at 39 with Molitor on deck 
Associated Press less in four trips by rookie right-hander John Farrell. 
MILWAUKEE-Milwaukee's Molitor failed to get the ball Paul Molitor went 0-for-4 out of the infield against Far­against Cleveland Wednesday rell, who allowed only three night, ending his 39-game hit­hits through nine innings in his ting streak. second major-league start. 
Molitor was attempting to "It's been an emotional night equal Ty Cobb's 40-game for me, being called out at the streak in 1911, the fourth­end of the game and seeing my longest in modern major­family in the stands. It reminds league history. me of what I've been through. 
Milwaukee won the game 1-o · It's been humbling and I'm in 10 innings on Rick Manning's glad for the opportunity. In a RBI pinch single. Molitor was lot of ways it's disappointing." the on deck batter. Rob Deer Molitor struck out in the first was hit by Jones' pitch leading inning, grounded into a 6-4-3 off the lOth and Mike Felder double play in the third and pinch-ran. Ernest Riles then grounded out to shortstop in the grounded out and Felder took sixth. He reached base in the second. After Dale Sveum was eighth on an error lby first intentionally walked, Manning baseman Pat Tabler. batted for Juan Castillo and sin­With two outs in the eighthgled. and a runner on second, Molitor 
"I went up to Rick and he hit a slow grounder that third said 'Sorry,' and .I said 'Sor­baseman Brook Jacoby ry?', you won the game," charged and threw to Tabler. Molitor said after taking a cur­First base umpire Mike Reilly tain call outside the Brewers' originally called Molitor out, dugout. but ruled him safe when Tabler 
"The irony is the distortion bobbled the ball. Jacoby's of priorities. You have the throw beat Molitor to the bag home team win in extra innings by about two steps.. Robin and the crowd goes silent," said Molitor, who was held hit-see END, page 12 







