
·tit~~ . 
A 60's high
..,/iPORTS: Pritchett 'puts the hurt on' 
A 60 percent chance of showers Tuesday with highs in the mid to upper 60s. Clear­ing Tuesday night with lows in
IVIEWPOINT: Sandinistas hoodwinked U.S. 

the upper 40s. 



TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1987 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Mudslide kills 175 in Colombia 


Associated Press 
MEDELLIN, Colombia -An avalanche of red mud and rock killed at least 175 people, in­cluding 43 children, when it thundered down a mountain­side and onto a slum area, officials said Monday. 
Some residents estimated up to 500 people were missing in the scores of buried shacks. 
At least seven of the children killed were attending first Holy Communion parties when buried under the landslide Sun­day in Villa Tina, an im­poverished area of the indus­trial city of Medellin. 
"We heard the noise that sounded like an explosion and soon afterward a huge mass of rocks and mud descended upon us," said Mary Mosquera, who lost three daughters in the av­alanche. "They were trapped by huge rocks and we couldn't do anything to rescue them." 
Mayor William Jaramillo Gomez told the radio chain Todelar that about 200 people were injured. 
A few survivors were pulled from the mud Sunday after­noon, but no one was found alive in the mud Sunday night or Monday morning, he said. 
Exhausted workers dug through 20 feet of mud Monday but found no survivors -just bodies. Slum dwellers wan­dered through the area search­ing for dead or missing rela­tives. Other residents tried to find belongings lost in the mudslide. 
Rescues workers said they were guided in recovering many bodies by dogs howling at the spots where their owners were buried. 
By nightfall, 175 bodies had been recovered, some buried under more than 36 feet of mud, the Fire Department said. 
Jaramillo Gomez suspended work later Monday as torren­tial rains for the fourth con­secutive day threatened to send more mud tumbling on top of workers, according to Caracol, Colombia's largest radio net­work. 
There were several small mudslides during the night on Sugar Loaf Mountain, over­looking Villa Tina, but they caused no new casualties and little damage, he said. 
Jaramillo Gomez told Caracol he had ordered that all victims, many of them uniden­tified, be interred immediately to prevent any outbreak of dis­ease. 
At least 50 people were buried in a mass grave, while the remaining bodies were to be buried Tuesday, he said. 
A funeral service was held in a sports coliseum in Medellin, Caracol reported. 
Jaramillo Gomez said it would be impossible to calcu­late the number of people not 

The Belles go marching on 
The Observet'Susy Hemandez

accounted for without taking a census. The victims' names Students at Saint Mary's College march through an arch of LeMans were not released. Hall on the way to another busy day of collegiate academics. 

Students urged to 'take the Plunge': register tomorrow 
By CATHY STACY Assistant News Editor 
Approximately 250 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are expected to partici­pate in this year's Urban Plunge -a 48 hour immersion into the kind of life that most students have never seen before, said Urban Plunge Co­ordinator Dan Keusal. 
The Plunge, sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, is not meant to be a service proj­ect, but an eye-opening experi­ence to the questions of inner­city poverty and injustice, he said. 
Participants also receive a one-hour credit for the plunge. "Prior to the Plunge," wrote 
Angry air passengers victims of violence 
Associated Press properly, and the police were brutalizing the pas­
VOL. XXI, NO. 26 


ND Office one of 90 to receive new grant 
By KENDRA MORRILL Senior Staff Reporter 
The Office of Student Affairs was one of 90 recipients nation­wide of a special $94,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to establish an Of­fice of Alcohol and Drug Edu­cation, according to Ann Firth, director of Residence Life. 
The grant proposal was a joint effort between the Office of Student Affairs and the Uni­versity Counseling Center, Firth said. It was co-authored by Firth and Christine Conway and Sally Coleman, both of the University Counseling Center, she said. 
Firth said over 500 grant proposals were submitted to the Department of Education. 
"The proposals are designed to be models for other colleges and universities," Firth said. 
The new office intends to promote a deepened awareness of the problems associated with the use of alcohol and drugs, according to a press release. 
The office will also sponsor a variety of programs and activ­ities designed to change the at­titudes of the Notre Dame com­munity regarding the use of these substances, the press release stated. 
The office will be dedicated to the memory of the members 
see OFFICE, page 4 

David Lucke after his experi­ence in Milwaukee, "poverty was something I read about, and I was aware of its sig­nificance...but I did not really know what it was or how it felt to be poor." 
"<The) Urban Plunge made me question 'Why,'" Cathleen Crinieri wrote about her plunge in Columbus. "Why do so few people really care enough to do anything about it?" 
Registration for the upcom­ing Urban Plunge begins to­morrow and runs until Oct. 9 at the CSC and Saint Mary's Office of Justice Education. 
Students who register will receive Plunge Learning Agreements which contain a sample schedule of the two-day experience and list more than 40 possible plunge sites. 
Social services and religious leaders host student groups during the week of Jan. 2-9 and participate with them in sched­uled activities. 
"We try to get (inner-city) contacts who have some expe­
aee PLUNGE, page 4 



Senate survey to poll students 
By GREG LUCAS  and  contains  many  personal  change from year to year as it  
Senior Staff Reporter  questions on subjects such as  is designed to measure student  
sexuality,  alcohol  and  drug  response to issues of the day,  

MIAMI -Angry pas­sengers accused of storming an Eastern Airlines ticket counter after their flight to New York was cancelled complained Monday that they were pushed around by police and treated like "criminals or terrorists." 
"I've never seen so much violence in my life," said passenger Edlemira Rios. 
"Eastern didn't handle it sengers,'' said John Smythe, vice president of Shearson Lehman Brothers in New 
York City.  
Police  denied  that  the  
seven  officers  used  ex­ 
cessive  force  Sunday  at  

Miami International Airport but said complaints from the crowd of nearly 200 would be investigated. 
see REVOLT, page 4 

A preliminary draft of a 50 question student survey was presented to the Senate last night by student senator Brian Holst. 
According to Holst, the sur­vey will be sent to approxi­mately 2,000 random students in the next few weeks. Holst said that he hopes to receive responses from at least 1,500. 
The first part of the survey is for demographic purposes abuse and birth control. 
The goal is to use the same demographic questions year after year to construct a way of measuring the evolution in the moral practices and beliefs of the student body, Holst said. He added that responses will be completely anonymous. 
The second portion of the sur­vey contains questions about current issues of controversy. 
This section of the survey will said Holst. 

Members of the Senate each completed a copy of the survey and discussed its general effec­tiveness and improvements that could be made in specific questions. 
Senate members, who were able to complete the questions in approximately seven minutes, said they felt the sur­
see SURVEY, page 4 


page 2 

The Observer Tuesday, September 29, 1987 

Of Interest . 
A MemorialMassfor FatherE. WilliamBeauchamp's parents will take place at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. University President Father Edward Malloy will be the homilist. -The Observer An information meeting concerning the Foreign Study Program in Cairo, Egypt will be held at 6:30p.m. in 103 O'Shaugnessy. -The Observer Senior Dogbook refunds will be issued today from 6-8 p.m. in the Annapolis Room of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. A student I.D. will be required. -The Observer The Sophomore class presents the season premiere of "Moorilighting" at 8 p.m. in the T.V. lounge in the base­ment of LaFortune (under the Huddle). Popcorn and refreshments will be served. -The Observer Le Cercle Francais is having a cafe hour in the ISO lounge of LaFortune at 10:15 p.m. New and old members are encouraged to come and speak French in an informal setting. Refreshments will be served. The cafe hour is immediately following the Snite's 7 p.m. showing of "Les Enfants du Paradis." -The Observer S.U.B. Special Events Committee will have a meeting at 6:30p.m. in the Student Union Board office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer London Program '88-'89 application meeting for all interested sophomores will be at 7p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. -The Observer CILA, the Community of the International Lay Apost­olate, presents a "social awareness dinner /rap session" with Professor Thomas Swartz at 5 p.m. in the faculty dining room in the South Dining Hall. All are welcome.. Just take your dinner upstairs. -The Observer TheHispanic-AmericanOrganizationwillhave a meeting at 5 p.m. in the puzzle room of Breen-Philips. -The Observer ''Eatin~AwarenessTraining''designedforindividuals concerneif about their own eating or the eating habits of someone they care about. Session II, focusing on why the problem exists, takes place from 6:30-7:30 p.m. in room 300 of the University Counseling Center, 3rd floor of the Student Health Center. -The Observer Assertiveness TrainingSeminar,a three-session series designed to assist people who worry about what others think of them, second guess themselves, and feel taken advantage of by others, will begin Wednesday, Sep­tember 30 at 4:15p.m. in 200 Haggar Hall. -The Observer Auditions1nterviews will be held by the Depart­ment of Communication and Theatre with regard to form­ing a Theatre for Young Audiences from 3-5 p.m. in the Lab Theatre of Washington Hall. For information, contact Professor Reg Bain at 239-7170. -The Observer Today is the deadline for signing up for the Notre Dame Encounter £2, which is a studentfaculty!Staff run retreat sponsored by Campus Ministry on October 9-11. Applica­tions may be picked up and returned at the Campus Min­istry Office in Badin Hall. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Delign Editor .................. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout Richelle Aschenbrenner Deaign Auiltant .................... Jodi Topel Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Typeaettera ............... Becky Gunderman Accent Layout................ Ann Biddlecom ...........................................Daniel Cahill Typilts............................ .. .. Lynn Ewing New• Editor....................... Regis Coccia ....................................... Jennifer Conlon Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley ND Day Editor ...................... David Lee Sporta Copy Editor......... Rick Rietbrock ........................................... Karin Rader Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Chris Donnelly Photographer ................ Susy Hernandez 'l1le Olllener (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except duriq exam IUid vacation periods. ne Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame IUid Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2~ per semester) by writina Tille Olleener. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame.lndiana46~~6. 'l1le Olleener is a member of Tile Allodated Pnu. All reproduction rights are resented.  



Remembering childhood times keeps us sane 
No dinner for you tonight. Go to bed NOW! . You are going to sit at this table until you eat EVERY beet on your plate, young lady! 
Pick up those toys when you're done, Her­man. Someone might trip over that baseball bat one of these days! 
Your dad and I are going out to dinner with some friends of ours tonight; Robbie, you keep an eye on your sister; and NO rough stuff in the house! 
Jenny, go outside and play--quit bugging mommie when she's cooking dinner. Jimmy, for the last time, will you PLEASE take out the trash? ! 
"Those were the days, my friends. I thought they'd never end," as the familiar 60's song used to echo in our ears... 
...The days of milk and cookies ... mud pies . . . slurping popsicles in the scorching sun . . . breaking lamps during an innocent game of football in the family room .... 
...Betting your kid sister she can't make a peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich in under 60 seconds--so YOU can eat the results ... pinning your little brother to the floor (not literally) so the neighborhood kids can tickle him to death 
...Cutting the grass for the first time and getting the opportunity to see a medium-size rock fly through your neighbor's window .... 
. . . Taking a leisurely bike ride down your neighborhood street, only to have a friendly St. Bernard give you his personalized booster shot 
. . .Crawling into the nursery and diving into a WHOLE box of cornstarch ... inventing chal­lenging games like 'twin trampoline'--the act of jumping from one twin bed to another in a hotel room ... 
The list is endless. Those fun-filled days of yesteryear ... if today's obligations were only so simple!! 
...Calendars overflowing with appointments . . . tests and papers coming out of your ears ... Moonlighting episodes you just CAN'T miss . . . so many opportunities to 'be all that you can be' during your college years ... 
...Turning down S.Y.R. date after S.Y.R. date, waiting for that 'special someone' to pick up the damn phone and CALL you! ... "get up and go's" that got up and went ... . 
... Nightmares that you're being chased by a huge plate of HUNGARIAN NOODLE BAKE or that you won't get to participate in any more of that SWAMP DINNER madness .... 
....Garbage trucks that sound like fog horns outside of your dorm room at 7 a.m.... a load of dirty laundry the size of the national debt ... a night of in LaFortune, with 

Maria Doti 
Day Editor 


ML-B 

the scent of french fries in the air . ' . ' 
... Telling yourself, 'just one more Saturday of standing up for four straight hours at a foot­ball game, or I'm going to burn a hole in my shoes! ... it's get-acquainted-with-the-South Bend-Police night at all of the off-campus par­ties.... 
... Being productive in class by writing let­ters to family and friends, who you'd swear fell off the face of the Earth . . . 
Of course I could go on ... but I don't want to scare you. 
You may begin to see how FAMILIAR these occurrences really are to you. Sometimes it's hard to grow up, or come to the realization that we have (hopefully) . 
We must be able to withstand the pressures of the unusually hectic lives we lead. 
But every once in a while we still need to reminisce about the special times of our child­hood in order to keep our SANITY! 
We may not have it as easy now as we did when we were kids, but then again, things could be worse! 
If I've heard it once, I've heard it a million times: "I wish all I. had to worry about was being in bed by 9 p.m., putting my toys away after playtime and being forced to eat a DECENT MEAL! !" 
Wouldn't it be great to have those 'old days' back again?? 



OCTOBER4, 1987 
DOWNTOWNSOUTHBEND, INDIANA 
Join theListofSportsmed Greats 
Ashley Johnson, Marty Cooksey, Nick Rose (<XJUI!Ie record 28: 14), Bill Rodgers, Joan Benoit-Samuelson (course reco~d 32:341. John Doherty, Frank Shorter. Prisdlla Welch, Paul Cwnmlngs. Alberto Salazar, Allison Roe, Rudy Olapa., Kl!llie Cathey. Keith Brantly, Steve Plasencia, Joe Klpsang, Jim Spivey, 1\!te Pfitzlnger. Suzanne Girard-Eberle. Julie lsphordlng, Dan Henderson. Lisa Larsen-Wiedenbach, Tony Staynlngs, Cyndle Brown-Welte, Dick Beardsley. Greg Beardsley, Hal Higdon. Phil Stewart, Kenneth Cooper, David Costll, Joe Henderson, George Sheehan-Plus many more cithe world's fastest IOK runners today 
"'UstNAMi --------m""STSA!'oi'i:.... ----INiTi"'AL -RMX'DAYM;t' 
I II I I I Ill I II I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I U W 
ADDJU:SS AC:PHON[ 
IL_L_j_L...L..J._L...L....J._.L....J......J._.L....J.......L......L....l.-'--~;;;:;:-..L......l.l::::'-1I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ...L.......>II II I t I I t I I I I 
= 
CITY STATE ZIP BIKTKOATJ: I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I UJ 111111 II 1-1 I 1-1 II 
CHECK IDUJI. AGE CAl'EGOKY l)<lur age on race dayl IOK Start: -yZ P.M. (Ind.Time) 12+ ?:!.: !CHECK o~·. IOK n-­
wUr 13-18 19-24 25-29 :5()...34 35-39 40-14 45-49 50-54 55-5. 6()...&. ........L 1-"01... 4K ~ D 
A B c o E r fi " I I K J I mJ. Fun Run D 
D II age Is <M'f 12 $10 l_j 
II age Is 12 and under $8 [!Longak<v<SporUmodShlrt 150/501 Aller Sept. 29: tall eniTi""l $12 D SHIRT SIZE: _ XS _ S _ M _ L -XL KeallhPtusliMO Oot 3 , tall eniTiesl $l3 [! 
~c:::::o::=:~SCHOOL-CORPOR.A.TE-OPEN-IIIJ Makechtdc.ormonryorderpa.yableto: I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ..-~ SPOKTSMED IOK 
WAIVEaiMV8TBESIGNEDJ "'" Nomundsore>duu\(1<8In~ ot aw ~. 11or •P'I'tf· my hrinl. ~on and~ .....m w rr-'t!!XJ lnoomplmentry fonns will be n.-tumed 
:-r::S!y~an-=:r:.!::.•.::=:-~n..::::;:._wo:!:: HOTLINE 219-232-3034 tJt•yparOdpadoaiiii.IIDIC'W'81.1an.tudW!'Itytlwlunpll}'lb.llyRiudtu:w..mdm11ynintdfor ~SalntJoseph~ M.AJLORDEUYERENTRYTO: 
~~=:!.~~~":;'==~~==!:""~-'t.f'MedlcaiCenter SPORTSMED IOK 320S. SalnJ)oa<phS! .. South Btnd.IN4660 I 
::::.~-hlftii-ISI TkSpart-" lO)[COIIrorCerlilkdbyTAC 
OK WIUTE FOK OUJI. COMPLETE BKOCHUKE AFrEK AUGUST lot 



Tuesday, September 29. 19~7 The Observer page 3 

U.S.-Iran relations might have been bettered before 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. offi­cials passed up a chance in 1985 to talk directly to a high Iranian official eager to im­prove relations, instead strengthening the hand of Iranian radicals through arms sales, a former White House consultant contended in Iran­Contra testimony released Monday. 
Michael Ledeen, a former 

Gorbachev unseen lately; absence puzzles Soviets 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The Soviet capital is puzzling over the seven-week absence of Communist Party leader Mikhail Gorbachev. 
The energetic, 56-year-old leader has constantly been in the public eye since he took charge of the Kremlin in March 1985 following the deaths in the previous 2 years of Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko. 
Soviet officials insist nothing is wrong. 

His absence is a main topic of conversation among foreig­ners and their Soviet contacts, and journalists who live along a major route often used by Kremlin leaders keep watch for Gorbachev's motorcade. 
Pyotr Starchik, one of the publishers of the Express­Chronicle, an unofficial journal of dissident activities, said consultant on terrorism who took part in early discussions with Israel about the Iran arms sales, said the Iranian official "believed it possible to, in es­sence, change the nature of the Iranian regime through peace­ful, parliamentary methods." 
In his testimony, given privately in March, June and September to House and Senate investigators, Ledeen said the official believed the changes could lead to Iran's abandon-
Monday that if Gorbachev's ab­sence meant a change of lead­ership, it would mean trouble for dissidents. 
"If (Yegor) Ligachev takes over, everything will be differ­ent," he said, referring to the Politburo member who gener­ally is regarded as the Krem­lin's No. 2 man. 
But there has been no evidence of a power struggle in the Kremlin. 
Foreign news reports have offered possible explanations including an attack of food poisoning and complications from appendix surgery for Gor­bachev's wife, Raisa. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Boris Pyadyshev told reporters last week that the Soviet leader "is on vacation and that he is in good health -excellent health." 

ment of terrorism and to better relations with the West. 
The official, who is not named, is said to have been eager to cooperate with the United States, asking only for small arms to protect himself and his allies inside Iran and for secure communications equipment to stay privately in touch with the United States, Ledeen said. 
He said the official strongly opposed large-scale sales of U.S.-made weapons to Iran be­cause that strengthened his powerful opponents who were resisting any tendency towar.ds moderation. 
Ledeen said that after talking to the official he briefed then-National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane and later William Casey, then-director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
At one point, he said, he urged Casey to tell President Reagan "that pursuing the hostages was backwards and it was permitting the tail to wag 
the dog and that we should in­stead pursue the political mat­ter." 
On the other hand, some in the administration have criticized Ledeen, saying his terrorism expertise was mini­mal and that he could not be trusted to keep secrets. 

Capping off the first two years 
The Observer I Kerry Harrington 

Slater JoAnne Wlderqulst conducts the 'capping' nursing majors. The 'capping' draws attention to ceremony at Saint Mary's College last Friday. The the students' reaching the halfway point In their proceedings were part of a tradition for junior quest to be nurses. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM IN 



CAIRO, 
INFORMATION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1987 ROOM 103 O'SHAUGHNESSY 6:30P.M. 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
In other business, the student government unanimously voted to join the Justice Educa­tion Commission in sponsoring a project designed to aid the people of Chile affected by the recent poll tax required for voting registration. 
Mary Ann White, a student representative of the Justice Education Commission, said that the week would include a slide show explaining the situa­tion, a showing of the film "Missing," and a mass. 
"The whole purpose of this is to educate the Saint Mary's stu­dents on this unjust situation in Chile. I feel it is very important to have the student govern­ment's support," said Eileen Hetterich, student council president. 
Before adjourning, the Board of Governance unanimously approved the formation of the English Club as a new organi­zation on campus. 

Tuesday, September 29, 1987

page 4 The Observer 


University president Father Edward Malloy meets with Renee Gau on coordinating a Crop walk with the South Bend community. Gau, the services 

'Monk' helps CROP walk; participants sought 
Special to The Observer 

Organizers of the CROP walk have begun recruiting participants for this year's event. 
As many as 200 Notre Dame students are expected to participate in this year's CROP walk. 
The fifth annual event, a 10 kilometer, or approxi­mately 6 mile walk, will take place Oct. 11. 
More than 1,000 people are expected to participate in the walk which benefits overseas and local commu­nity service projects. 
"Our goal is to get at least 200 students to walk," said Renee Gau, services con­cerns commissioner of stu­dent government. 
She said 100 students from Notre Dame's ROTC pro­gram will participate, and she hopes to enlist at least 10 students from each dorm on campus. 
The walk is "one way in which the community rallies together to deal with the problem of world hunger," said University President Father Edward Malloy, who is helping to publicize this year's event. 
The event is primarily a 
community event, rather 
than a Notre Dame-initiated 
project. "We want to show 
Notre Dame's support for 
the community," Gau said. 
The walk will begin at 2 
p.m. and end at 5 p.m. at St. Joseph High School. Mem­bers of more than 75 local organizations are expected to participate. 
The walk's organizers said · they hope to raise $30,000 for a variety of global and local concerns. 
Last year, $18,000 was raised. 
Eighty percent of this year's proceeds will be donated to overseas proj­ects, and 20 percent will be devoted to two local relief projects, the Michiana Food Bank and the United Religi­ous Community's winter shelter at the Maranatha Temple. 
Members of Notre Dame Glee Club will sing during the registration period at St. Joseph High School begin­ning at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
CROP is an acronym for the Christian Rural Over­seas Project of the Church World Service Community Appeals organization. 
Plunge 
continued from page 1 
rience with justice and an awareness for social concerns," said Keusal. "The Plunge is also raising the awareness of alums who have helped set up plunge sites in their cities." 
Keusal attributes his current 
interest in social justice and 
poverty to the Plunge he made 
in 1982. "I don't believe every­
one will become a theology and 
justice major after the experi­
ence, but it is a real eye-opener 
and inspires others to go on to 
do more," he said. 
The Urban Plunge is des­cribed in an information pamphlet as one way that Notre Dame seeks to address the issues of Catholic social teaching and sensitize students to the need for social action in the world. 


Revolt 
continued from page 1 
"Undoubtedly, our officers encountered a situation where if it got out of hand, some people would have been hurt," said Metro-Dade police spokes­man Rey Valdes. 
But passengers said people were merely complaining and that there was no excuse for the violent encounter with the police officers. 
Passengers said police beat some people, pushed others around and were verbally abusive. 
Smythe said the passengers hadn't done anything when police jumped on one man and started choking him. 
"He was turning blue in the face," he said. "His wife started screaming. Everyone started screaming. The police were beating this guy." 
Smythe called the officers "very inflammatory and very violent," and said one officer attacked an elderly man who 
said "Boo!" 

"Students are faced with the 
contrast between the lifestyles 
they have known and those they 
see on their Plunges, and they 
are challenged to analyze the 
causes of the conditions they 
see," the pamphlet explains. 
In the late 1960's, Father Don 
McNeill and John Egan, an 
inner-city pastor, began the 
first Plunge experience in 
Chicago with two groups of 24 
students. 

In 1977, members of the stu­
dent group CILA (Community 
for the International Lay 
Apostolate) took on the Urban 
Plunge as a group project. 

The project has continued to 
grow, and contacts in new 
cities emerge each year. 

"The difference between ·(before taking the Plunge) and 
now," wrote Lucke, "is that I 
can connect poverty and other 
social problems with the people 
they touch." 


Survey 
continued from page 1 

vey's length was appropriate. 
Diane Fitzgibbon, senior class president, said she thought the personal and direct nature of some of the questions might tend to put students on the defensive when responding. 
In other business, Laurie Bink, student body vice presi­dent, presented models and diagrams of the renovations currently underway on North Dining Hall. 
Major changes will include an upper and lower level of seating by the windows looking out on North Quad. 
According to Pat Cooke, stu­dent body president, the con­struction, which is slated for completion by October of 1988, should increase the dining capacity by 500 seats. 
In other news, Holst reported 
$1.25 SPUDS MUG AND DRAFT WITH 75 CENT REFILLS ALSO...RUM AND COKE 75 CENTS 
THURSDAY 

DOMESTIC DRAFT 75 CENTS PEACH RUM SC~EWDRIVER 75 CENTS
FRIDAY 

OPEN FOR LUNCH, NOON -2 PM PIZZA, SUBS, AND SUDS 
I.D. REQUIRED




'-----------------------J 
that William Hickey, director of food services, has been responsive to the Senate and Hall President's Council's offer to volunteer to work a shift in the dining hall as a good will gesture to the recent food riot. 
"Hickey's real concern is that students don't respect the workers," said Holst. 
The Senate agreed to work the dinner shift on Thursday, Oct. 8. The Senate members will identify themselves by wearing T -shirts durring their shift. 
"We have to identify our­selves as student leaders," said Cooke. 
The Senate also followed up on a discussion from last week regarding off campus crime. 
Cooke said that he and his committee decided that draft­ing a letter to Charles Hurley, South Bend's chief of police, would not serve to create a pos­itive interaction between stu­dent government and the South Bend police. 
Cooke said that he hoped to get Hurley to contribute to an informational packet that is being sent to all off campus stu­dents, and participate in an or­ientation program for inter­ested students. 

Office 
continued from page 1 
of the Notre Dame community who have lost their lives to drug and alcohol related accidents, said Firth. 
The proposed opening date of the new office is Nov. 1, 1987, but this depends on whether the Director of Education and Out­reach is found by then, Firth said. The director will develop the programs and make sure the needs of the community are being met by the office. 

Tuesday, September 29, 1987 The Observer page 5 


Running out of gas 
Several students had a deflating experience during tryouts for the Theatre for Young Audiences, but It was all staged, as Professor 


The Observer I Suzy Hernandez Reg Baln directed them on the art of deflating for the public. 



New B-1 B long-range bomber crashes in Colorado 
Associated Press 
LA JUNTA, Colo. -A B-lB bomber with six people aboard crashed Monday in a ball of or­ange flame in the Colorado prairie, but three crew mem­bers parachuted to safety, aut­horities said. 
The fate of the other crew members was not immediately disclosed. It was the first crash of a regular production model of the B-lB, the nation's newest long-range strategic bomber. 
The survivors were flown to a hospital at Peterson Air Force Base east of Colorado Springs, said base spokesman Sgt. Warren Wright. Aut­horities withheld information on them pending notification of relatives. 
The bomber, attached to the 96th Bombardment Wing, left Dyess Air Force Base in Abilene, Texas, early Monday. 
It was headed for the Strate­gic Training Range Complex near La Junta, about 60 miles southeast of Pueblo, the Stra­tegic Air Command said. 
The plane went down two miles south of La Junta at 9:34 a.m., said Capt. Dave Thurston of SAC command headquarters in Omaha, Neb. 
Greg Rieken, who lives on a dairy farm 20 miles east of La Junta, said he watched the plane come out of the northeast and "I knew something was wrong -it was in trouble." 

I 
THE OFFICE OF InTERnATIOnAL STUDEnT AFFAIRS OF THE UniVERSITY OF nOTRE DAmE 
present 
MARIJCO OHNO 
of Tokyo 
in a Progra:n of Japanese Traditional Dance and Shamisen Music 
Location: Annenberg Auditorium (Snite Museum of Art) Time: Wednesday September 30, 7:00p.m. 

Indy frat serves up alcohol at parties but tests for drunks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -People who attend parties sponsored by Delta Sigma Pi have to pass Breathalyzer tests before they can drive home, according to the fraternity's president. 
Jim Spencer, who heads the professional fraternity at In­diana University-Purdue Uni­versity at Indianapolis, said his group decided to impose the policy after a few members were charged with driving while intoxicated after leaving parties. A few also had been involved in alcohol-related traffic accidents. 
"We thought it's just a mat­ter of time before something else happens, and we wanted to avoid it," said Spencer. "We've been talking about it for a couple of months." 
Although Delta Sigma Pi is not a social fraternity, it has many social events where alco­hol is served, Spencer said. 
"It was just a general agree­ment by everyone that it was a good idea," he said. 
The fraternity bought a Breathalyzer device for $119 earlier this month, and have already used it at one party. 

"No one really seemed to ob­ject to it," Spencer said. "They didn't give too much resis­tance. I think they understood what we were doing was for their protection and for the protection of others on the road." 
Under the fraternity's new policy, partygoers are asked to give up their car keys when they arrive. To get the keys back, they must pass the breath tests when they are ready to leave. 
Those whose alcohol level exceeds the legal limit are given the option of riding home with a sober driver or of staying overnight at the frater­nity. 
Under Indiana law, a person can be charged with drunken driving if his blood-alcohol level measures 0.10 percent or higher. 
Lane Dunagin was one of three fraternity members who flunked the test at the first party. He ended up staying overnight. 
"Without the Breathalyzer, some people may not realize exactly how drunk they are," said Dunagin. "I realized I should have stayed." 
"I watched it burn and &moke came out the back end of it until it dipped a little bit to the right and went over the horizon and just crashed. And I just saw a big fireball plume up after that," Rieken said. 
"It sounded like a sonic boom," he said. "It was really bright. It hung up in the air for a long time. It was brilliant or­ange." 
Bud Quick of La Junta said he "felt a thud," saw a ball of fire behind some hills and saw three parachutes floating to the ground. 
The plane was not carrying any bombs, the Air Force said. 
The cause of the crash was to be investigated by a board of officers. 
At the training range near La Junta, crew members simulate bomb drops and are scored electronically by personnel on the ground. In October 1981, a B-52 crashed at the range, kil­ling all eight crew members. 
Wright said the B-lB is de­signed to carry four crew mem­bers, but there were six on board because it was a training mission. Two people on board probably were "evaluators," Wright said. 
The Air Force said Monday it was unclear at what altitude the bomber was flying when trouble developed. Rieken esti­mated the plane was flying at 1,500 to 2,000 feet when he saw it. 

A prototype of the bomber crashed in August 1984 in Cal­ifornia's Mojave Desert, killing one man and injuring two others seriously. 
The B-lB, a strategic bomber and missile platform, is manufactured by Rockwell In­ternational's North American Aerospace Operations in El Segundo, Calif. It has a maxi­mum speed of about 1,000 mph and a range of more than 7,000 miles when fully fueled. 
It is the first new long-range strategic bomber produced in the United States in more than 25 years. 
The first of the 100 B-IB's being purchased by the Air Force were activated in Octo­ber 1986 at Dyess. 

Number of collegians increases 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana college and university officials are puzzled by increased en­rollments this fall from what was expected to be a smaller pool of college-bound students. 
"It's an odd phenomenon ... It wouldn't be so mysterious if it were happening in one or two schools, but there has been this across-the-board, across­geography increase," said Polly Coddington, associate director of admissions at DePauw University, where en­rollment is up this semester. 
Six of Indiana's seven public institutions of higher education also have experienced in­creased enrollments this fall, with record highs at Purdue and Indiana universities. 
Only Indiana State Univer­sity showed a decrease and that was only by about 50 students. 
No one is sure why this has happened, but there are theories. 
National annual projections by the U.S. Department of Edu­cation predicted a slight decline in enrollments this fall due to an expected decrease in college-age students, said Rosa Fernandez, a statistician at the department's Center for Edu­cation Statistics. 
A smaller study by the cen­ter, however, showed a 1 per­cent increase in enrollments based on a sample, she added. 
Indiana University's total full-and part-time enrollment reached 82,627 students this fall -2,511 more than last fall, registrar Sara McNabb said. 
Purdue's record high is 931 more full-and part-time stu­dents than last year, with the preliminary figure totalling 32,243, said Dr. Barbara Stahura, Purdue research as­sistant. 
Stephen Bushouse, Butler University's dean of admis­sions and financial aid, sugges­ted national studies indicating 

the next school year, 1988-89, might have been one year off. "Maybe we got the blip a year earlier," he said. 
If census figures correctly in­dicate a shrinking pool of college-age adults this fall, the rise in enrollments could indi­cate that a greater percentage of that pool is pursuing higher education, said William Dubois, executive director of the State Student Assistance Commission of Indiana. 
Clyde Ingle, the state's higher education commission­er, said labeling the increase as a trend would be premature. 
Some of the increase could be attributed to efforts by state government, business and educators working toward greater emphasis on higher education in Indiana, said William Osmon, associate vice president for academic affairs for Indiana State. 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 29, 1987
page 6 

Appalling realities in Nicaragua 
Time and time again, Communism has been called "The god that failed." Why? Just take a look at the basket-case economies and complete repression in every Communist country. Yet, every few years or so, a n~ · "revolution" seems to capture the imaginations of the system's admirers, who sing a chorus of, "This revolution won't be like all the others. It's new and im­proved Communism!" Fidel Castro was a darling of the U.S. Media for his first two years in power, a time in which he was still denying any "Communist leanings" (while simultaneously proving them back in Cuba.) The VC and Ho Chi Minh were pretty popular among 60's "peace" demonstrators as well. So, in the 1980's, along comes Nicaragua, with another "new and im­proved" brand of Communism, one which today's trendy "liberation" theologians like to say promotes, in a twisted usage of the term, "Social Jus­tice.'' The Sandinista Communists have effectively hoodwinked the whole U.S. liberal spectrum into believing that Nicaragua actually has a sweet and humane government and system. The reality is quite different. 
Glenn Fogarty 
guest column 
Like any Communist government, the Sandinistas have systematically wrecked their nation's economy within 7 years of power. Inflation now stands at 600%, and the state-controlled "food" agency provides little to no food for the starving populace (Most of the food is allocated to the Sandinista Popular Army, which, by the way, is larger than all the armies of Central American combined.) Most businesses have been forced to shut down, and by and large, property confiscation has forced the middle class to flee. Labor unions are practically outlawed, and their leaders are in Sandinista prisons. In addition, Nicaragua's once fairly productive agriculture system is now floundering, thanks to mandatory col­lectivization a few years back; peasants' farms were confiscated, and the peasants were forced to migrate to the cities. In and around Managua, over 100,000 of these former farmers now reside in cardboard shacks as squatters (due to the government's commitment to social justice, I guess.) Former San­dinistas say that the government's plan 
Doonesbury 

is to "let the city deteriorate to the point" where the squatters will decide to move back to the countryside. Con­sequently, Managua's public works, public health, and transportation sys­tems are now in ruins. 
In consolidating their revolution, the Sandinistas have treated their people with the type of tender 1Qv1ng care nor­mally associated with Communists. The Puebla Institute, an inter­American human rights organization, reports that Sandinista troops have reg­ularly attacked villagers, their homes, and farms "indiscriminately and with­out warning", dropping grenades and shooting rockets out of helicopters and airplanes. In the past year and a half, Sandinista troops have also raided 50 Miskito Indian villages, with subse­quent hanging, burning, shooting, and live burial of the inhabitants. 
To counter what one Sandinista sol­dier described as "much support for the Contras among the people," since 1984 the Sandinistas have largely depopulated northern Nicaragua, removing more than 70,000 peasants, razing their villages and placing them in "reeducation camps", fenced in with little shelter and food. According to the 
N.Y. Times, in the past few months the Sandinista army has rounded up more than 6,000 civilians living in southern Nicaragua: as well, forcibly removing them to the same crowded detention centers, with reports that a Sandinista Colonel raped a 15-year old girl in the process. 
There has been a complete suspen­sion of civil rights for several years. The State Department's '87 report on Nicaragua states, "churchmen, businessmen, dissident writers, and former Sandinistas are routinely harassed, arrested, interrogated, tor­tured, and occasionally killed." There is mass conscription into the army, and most soldiers are forced to take in­doctrination courses. One test used on occasion is as Atheism Quotient. Recruits are given 3 chanced to relin­quish their faith, and are subjected to further indoctrination, torture, or im­prisonment. Some refusers have been killed. 
The Church has been hard-hit. The Catholic press and radio station have been forcibly closed, and Masses are frequently interrupted by Sandinista­backed mobs. The Cardinal and his priests are regularly harassed, and a good number of priests and bishops have been deported. A farmer and lay Protestant preacher, Prudencio Bal­todano, was tied to a tree, bludgeoned with rifle butts, stabbed with bayonets, and had his ears cut off by a cadre of Sandinista troops mocking his faith. Similar stories occasionally leak out of Nicaragua. 
The Sandinistas' PR blitz in the U.S. and deliberate deception have prevented much of this information from being exposed here. A secret Spe­cial Investigations Commission set up by Interior Minister Tomas Borge, os­tensibly to investigate missing-persons claims was really designed to create plausible-sounding denials of atrocities, illegal arrests, and political murder. The Commission's director, Alvaro Baldizon, who defected to the U.S., admitted to the systematic slaughter of the Miskito Indians and numerous other villagers, incidents which were staged by Sandinista troops to look like "Contra" atrocities. Many "peace" groups swallowed this com­mission's reports whole. 
All of this socail Justice is supported by Catholic "Peace" groups across the 
U.S. Quixote Center, a Catholic relief agency, has channeled $40 million in aid to Nicaragua in the past year. Mis­guided "Peace Witness" groups unwit­tingly spread Sandinista propaganda as well. 
In a Gallup Poll, 71% of Hondurans and 85% of Costa Ricans said that the Sandinistas treated their own people with little to no justice. (These people hear about reality from the 200,000 refugees that have fled Nicaragua already.) Reality is the fact that the only thing about Social Justice that exists in Nicaragua is the flagrant lack of it. 
Glenn Fogarty is enrolled in the Fresh­man Year of Studies. 
P.O. Box Q 
AIDS policy needs to be extended 
Dear Editor: 

We were delighted to read the article in last Monday's Observer concerning the AIDS policy which has been adopted at St. Mary's. As described in the arti­cle, the policy shows a tremendous sen­sitivity to students who develop the dis­ease and also to the entire university community. The administration of St. Mary's is to be commended for its han­dling of this concern in such a forthright, unbiased and caring man­ner. 
We are concerned, however, that the policy seems to apply only to students. What about faculty or staff members who may contract AIDS? Would the same services be available to them, and would they have job security? We urge the administration of St. Mary's to address the needs of these members of the university community as well. 
We also wonder what steps are being taken at Notre Dame to address this same concern. St. Mary's has shown us the sensitive, just and caring manner in which this can be handled. We hope that the administration of Notre Dame will take notice and begin steps to develop an AIDS policy which applies to the students, faculty and staff of Notre Dame. 
Robert Kennedy Ruth Meyers Off-Campus 

Viewpoint  would  like  to  occasionally highlight  
quotes  from  faculty  members,  students  and  
readers.  So if you  or  someone  you know says  

something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556. 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the Day 
"The entire sum of existence is the magic of being needed by just one person." 
Putnam Hard Hearts Are for Cabbages 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free· expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor-in-Chief. . ....................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Ms.nager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke Vie_wpoint Editor ........... ...................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin 
Sports Editor.... . ..................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1966 
---------~--------­
Tuesday, September 29, 1987 The Observer page 7 
Tile a..-Not,. Dame office, located on the thlfd floor of Laf0f1une Stu­cMnt Centw, .ccepr. clualfled ectw.t!Wig from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvuugh Frtday. the a..-s.mt Mery's offlce, loca1ed on the third noor of Hegg.-Collge C..t••.ccepta clualfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Mond•y through Frtday. Oeedllne for next-day clualfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda must
cl·assifieds 
be pntpllld, •the!" In peBOn rN by mall. The ch-ve Ia 10 c:enr. per five 
~p.day. 

MOVE  IN NOWI FREE  RENT  UNTIL  NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE ALA­ U2 TIX  No pink?  AIDE  NEEDEDII  OCT.  BAEAKII  TO  
NOTICES  11¥.!&87. Two separate 2 bedroom apart­menta available. each with kitchen, full bathroom and large living room. Beds  BAMA GAME CALL DAVE ANYTIME AFTER 7PM  AT  1598  For Nov. 1 concert In lndlanapolla. Cell 2084 • Beat offer  She was In the South Dining Hall wearing yellow -I knew she'd run out of pink eventually.  DETROIT AREA--PLEASE CALL 284­5200  
SPEE-DEE  WOADPAOCESSING.  0:  and dreaaera furnished. Rent Includes all utilities. Call 232-9239.  U2 TIX • I've got 7 to Lexington, Ky. on Oct. 23. For sale or trade for football tlx.  
237-1949; H: 277-8131. ....................... MARISSA'S TYPING; WOAD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277·1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 TYPINGWOAD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 Receive $5 off $50 or more purchase of your textbooks at Pandora's Bookstore. located on 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki 10:00 a.m.-5:30. With, receive an extra tO% off on pur· chases of used peperbacka (In stock) at Pandora's Bookstore, located at 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. We're open 7 days a weeki t 0:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Terrle'a TyplngWord proceaalng 287· 1283, close to campus  WANTED AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WAITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK· DAYS. .......................................... NEED AIDE TO D.C. AREA OCT. 3 OR 4. WILL SPLIT COSTS AND FATHER CHILDREN. CALL BILL AT 283-3549 ................................................................ WASH. DCNO.VA Need 1·2 fun peo. to rlda to Wash DCNoVa for fall brk. Lv. pm HYf5 At. H. pm. 11¥.!2 for USC game. 1 ridar should be 21 to share driv. Riders share coats & 1un. Call 2182 for more Info. anvpm. MORE DRIVERS AND COUNTER HELP NEEDED. PART· TIME OR FULL·TlME. GOOD WAGES. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOOF ATHER'S PIZZA, 52820 U.S. 31 NO. Dallas-Ft. Worth area: I need a ride home for FALL BREAK. Will share driving and expenses as usual. It you can leave  Doug-2835 FREE BEER OR BIG BUX FOR 2GA'S FOR USC CALL LAMBO 2446 WILL TRADE USC TIX FOR BC TIX. ALSO NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL MARC 288-7105 ................................................................ I WANT YOUR SEX, BUT 2 'BAMA GA'S WILL DO. CALL PAOLO 288-3507 ......................................................... UM... OH YEAH, I GOTTA TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 AMABALA GA'S. LErS MAKE A DEALt CALL 234-6394. ASK FOR WIBBLES. ................................................................ Help, my brother will shave my head bald If I don't get BC tlx. Call Ron £3575, so I can keep my halrlll ................................................................ NEEDED: USC GAs. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFEAII CALL 1075 I NEED YOUR HELPII Show some Ne­braska Comhuaker fans how a REAL team plays football. Sell me your NAVY tickets (GA or stud.). Man x1 078. RICH uaad car salesman will make you a GREAT DEAL for USC tickets  FIRST IT WAS ALUMNI THEN CAME HOLY CROSS, ZAHM, STANFORD, FLANNEA WHAT DORM WILL BE NEXT? JOIN THE REAL MEN ON CAMPUS: THE ONES WHO HATE WOMEN. Happy birthday, Tigert Love, Kitten HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Special "K.' Always remember the "beslest" de­serve the best. That Ia why I will always try to give you the best. Oh yea, don'l forget to lake the dog for a walk. It really needs Its exercise. Love forever, Krlssy, Kern, Kerry,"Peon" (PAC) MARKETING CLUB Chi·Chl'l get to­gether tonight et 7:00. II you cen't make thle event and heven'l algned up yet, come to the LaFortune main lobby betwMn 7:00 end 9:00 Wedn••· dey night (with your $5.00 member· ahlp duu) NEED AIDE TO MSU OCT. 2. SHARE  Another reason why beer is better than women: A beer will all patiently In the car while you play softball or while you go out with the boys. Why beer Is better than women £4: You never have to wine and dine a beer. Keenan doesn't have ELVIS. So Keenanltes are the anti-ELVISI AAUGHI THE BOTTOM LINE appearing for 2 nights at Chip's Tuesday and Wednesday nights September 29 and 30 Ba at Chip's ................................................................ A quiet, ahy, unaaaumlng, socially con­servative, cufturad man with a fiercaly  MAKE MONEY, NOT LOVE. ................................................................ DON'T FORGETIII WEDNESDAY FROM 4-5:30PM IN ThE LOUNGE OF FARLEY SOCIOLOGY SOCIALIZING ALL UNDEAGAAD. MAJORS & FAC­ULTY FR~'JAM'ES··au·RTCj:iAEii''WiLL'LEAD AN INFORMAL DISCUSSION ON WED­NESDAY, SEPT. 30 AT 7:00PM. THIS EVENT WILL TAKE PLACE IN HIS ROOMS IN HOLY CROSS HALL ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. THEOL­OGY MAJORS AND OTHER INTER­ESTED STUDENTS ARE INVITED TO ATTEND. ANNIE C. Really, Ita okay. It'll get better. I promise. S. ............iiP'ii'Ai<i;:;Q"·O'j;'8j;CiiiTii........... SPEAKING OF SPORTS Irish football. 3-Q. Top 10. Fantastic. Ua­ 
FREE RAFFLE F5Marllyn Monroe Poate111 F4from The Snlte Museum ex· hiblt F5LIFE;F4The Second Decade t 948-55 Fill out entry forma In the Museum Shop. Drawing will be on Sun­day, ~­11 2:00 pm TYPING-WORD PROCESSING. REASONABLE RATES. CALL PAT 234-1162&. THE ELECTRIC PSYCHO WANTS J.L. BACK AGAIN.. OUCH Ad-trp rlda offered to Coi,OH 1!¥.!· 1014 277-4149  Friday, socn after t pm, please call Joe at x1139. HELP MEl I nead a ride to Miami U. THIS weekend. Call Karen [1312. HELPI I need ride to Milwaukee, WI this weekend Oct 2-4 Will share expenses! Call Kim x4208 EXOTIC BELLYDANCING LESSONS C.ll Prince•• Adrienne x4434 I need a ride to I.U. Bloomington ~­2,3,4 $$$ Please call Bart 1216.  (seriously, folks II). It you need money and have GA'a or student tlx, call Matt at x1076. NO USE FOR TAOJANSII FAVORITE PRIEST COMING II: Will trade two U.S.C. GAa for two B.C. GAs. Call 283·3389. Leave meaaage. Parents wlah to drink grain with me before I graduate. Need 4 BAMA GA'a to get them here. Call Mark £3592. Help I nead USC tlx for my boss from KC. Any extra GAs please call Chris x2257  $$$.CALL 4414. A aofl answer turneth away wrath, but a nasty one-liner llfteth up the countenance of the man who uttereth it. --J. Heinrich Schllestak An Obaarver photographers' meeting tor Interested Saint Mary's students will be held today In Regina north lounge at 6 p.m. Hey Dude, Thanks for the letter. It was the best one I've ever received. I'm glad that my first personalis to you, especially since you're the most unique and special person I  Independent mind longs to meet a wo­man with roughly similar Inclinations. This Is as aenous as It Ia an absolutely ridiculous way to try to meet someone, but I can't possibly be the only lonely heart around here. Respond here MSG. THE SON of tha Chill Scilntllt of Europe tuma 19 today. Happy Birthday Jeck "1murl" Ryenl ................................................................ NEED AIDE TO PITT FOR OCT 2-4 CALL JOE 3883  ten to WVFI. Inside 'beckers Ned Balcer end Wee Pritchet1 on Speaking of Sports. Join In by calling 239-8400. Talk to two of the 'No-Names' tonight on Speaking of Sports, from 10·11 p.m. N"·;;-·;;·c:·c:·c;·u·N"·:r··.-·;:i·a--;;·s·s·;:;·C"·, A T I 0 N Organizational Meeting Thut11 ~­1 at 6:30pm 124 HoH Come and find out what's going on this yearl w·.;v·i~~:ilt;~·;~-~--~h;j;i;~·~;t;;;.··HMw'Hc al Grace? Some men aren't loaet11. A Graca-lte ................................................................ leg IIcker -let's get together sometime­ 
Aesume&-'Typln~ec. WorMlookkeeplng 277-5815  FOR SALE  ALABAMA GA'SII You got them, I need them BADL VII 'rants coming from MO to see game. Can't let Mom down I Call Rob  know. You're right, you always make me taught Dlnner-tonlght-Huddlell Love & Friends  PAUL BREAK A LEG ERIN  what do you say? -llckee Juil~:·:;;;;~;;·~~~-j~;·;;;;·;;;~;;;·;;;;;~;:·:y-;;~·r  
Free: One high quality C90 blank cas·  1108  Christina E.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIA. I HOPE YOU  birthday Ia the time for her revengelllll  
sette. Cosmos International Box 43058 St. Loula. MO 83143 Typing 237·1H8 or 277-8131 \ LOST/FOUND l LOST: HORSESHOE SHAPED KEYAING ON SOUTH QUAD AT MAL· LOY PICNIC. RING HAS 7 KEYS AND IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. AEWAADIII CALL BILL £4022.  IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR NEED 2 'BAMA TIX. x2916 AT NIGHT. $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! I 111111 2 Nevy GA'1 CALL 1-312-742·1142, EXT. 7318. cell2084 Ice skates 277-4576 HELPII need one USC ticket. My brother 1977 LeMana wagon, 400cc, 4-barrel already made his flight reservations. 289­carb. with auto. trans., runs good but un­0966 fortunately body needs work. Affec­tionately known as "The Bomb". $200. PITT I 111111 GA'ell Call Llae x2885 Call 234-5558 after 5 p.m. TICKETS I ' PERSONALS'-----------..J OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, I WILL GIVE MY BODY OR EVEN CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE  ERIN AWESOME TIME SAT. NIGHT THANKS,OZZV Dawn Marie -tha teats are over and I'm back. How about dinner tonight? Hay 3rd floor VERMIN • Nice baah tor my birthday I Thenka to you guy• my liver will never be tha ume... " You guya hed aome IDIOT 11 your party..... " I'll epologlze tor him hera I Let' a don the helmetl and aceld Nicole again REALLY SOON. Thank• egeln, H81bro. P.S. tha Idiot uy1 Thenka to you ell, too. So, who had the chocolate shake? Oops.  HAVE A GREAT DAY AND A WONDER­FUL YEAR. SEE YOU AT THE BAAS IN A COUPLE OF DAYS. LOVE, BRIAN HEY VERMIN GEE WHIZ! AM I SORRY. BIRTHDAYS CAN GET PRETTY SILLY MINE AND HAS'S • FORGET IT BOSS HALL GATHERING THOUGH -"SOME REAL IDIOT' Peter: How could I be In pain after dan­cing with you? Thanks for taking a chance on Fri. Your Lady in Blue ................................................................ Top 10 Purdue Quotea (as complied by tha home office in West Lafayette) 10. "It wa win, It'll be a doggone upset."  FALL FEST AT HAGGAR WED 1¥.30 AT SMC 8PM·11:30 COMEDIAN 10·11:30 COFFEE HOUSE PERFORMER 8-10 "THE HIT MAN" 8-11:30 MOVIE-"CROCODILE DUNOEE'-8 MOONLIGHT MADNESS SAB OPEN HOUSE $111 $111 FALL FEST CONTINUES  
LOST...LOST... LOST I LOST MY WHITE WINDBREAKER AND THE GIRL THAT GAVE IT TO ME IS GOING TO KILL ME WHEN SHE FINDS OUT. IT SAYS "SPBC SECUA· lTV" ON IT. IF YOU HAVE IT OR FIND IT, PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL. THANKS. JIM: 1215 LOST: Thuraday night, sat of keys on Beaver Cleaver keychaln. If tound please call Kim 2815.  MONEY FOR 2 BC GA'S CALL JOHN AT 1980 ................................................... I WILL GIVE ANYTHING FOR 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 BC GA PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 1654 IT WILL BE WORTH YOUR WHILE BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S I NEED 4 BC GA'S. CALL FRANK ·3104 NEED 2 GAa or STUD. TIX FOR BAMA Call Rachal x2930  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. WAKE UP! Happy B·day Mom I -SH 1 G.A. ticket needed for the USC game $$$. Call 284-4372. NEED 2 NAVY GA CALL CHRIS 233­2784  TOM A: Could you do us a favor and please say hello or something to your admlrerer?Go ahead--make her day before she graduateaiBasldes, she's driving us nutsiThanks,trlends of hers. Nead 5 USC tickets stud or ga call Tim 3404 Ye olde CHRIS BILLETDEAUX turns 21 In 4 days. I vote you whoop It up now and tell Tom how much fun you had later.  9. "If we don't find the hotel, at least we've got beer." 8. "This Ia a working press box. Please, no oggllng." 7. "You hogged tha covers. and I was freezing." 8. "Why are you opening tha car door ao much?" 5. "I loot my 1.0., again." 4. "Move, I'm going to be sick." 3. "You're a man of your word." 2. "You're 11ghl across the street." 1. "Whore's my mouth?"  BEER GARDENS AT S.M.C $1 COVER CHARGE 50 CENTS A BEER 2 21 IDS REQUIRED LIMIT 500 PEOPLE 9PM·1AM OCTOBER 1ST ................................................................ To those at 2123 S. Fremont Avenue In Mlnn~~poU1 I may not call aa much, I may not write aa much, bull miBB you more than evert -Aachael  
LOSTIIIIIIIII Notra Dame Women'a Claaa Ring I Petite ring, gold with blue stone. The lnltlala MKT '88 are lnecrlbed Inside the nng. If found, PLEASE call Kate at £2904. Thank Youlllllll Loat, a Maroon and Gold St. Ignatius Soc­cer Jaclcet In tha vlclnlty 01 Cartier Field laat sunday night. If found pleaae cantact Matt In room 245 Zahm or call 1232 UNITED LIMO SUNDAY NIGHT, DROP OFF AT NO CIRCLE, 1:05AM. WE AC­ WILL TRADE 2 USC TIX FOR 2 BAMA TIX (GA). CALL KATIE 404-257-8588. ................................................................ TWO DISTINGUISHED MEN OF MEDICINE UGENTL Y NEED GA'S FOR ALABAMA BIG $$$ OR FREE OPERA­TION-TAKE YOUR PICK. REACH US CO MATT 283·3549 RICH ALUM NEEDS SO CAL lrrtCKETSII 233 8298 Want to trade 2 U.S.C. for 2 B.C. Ilea: call Paul l!77 -8399  K I WANT YOUR "LOVE" c Supenor Vaneaaa-1 am captivated by your beauty. SEXUAL AWARENESS QUESTION £1 Generally speaking, do NO guys carry condoms when lhay go out? WOMEN WANTEDI Transfer students  AIDE NEEDED:U.OF ILLINOIS,OCT.2· 4,WILL PAY WELL,CALL LYNN£4297 Brian Murry, Oops I mean Brian O'Gara Can I lick your shoe? But before you answer, tell me whatare those things on your lhing.  .......ri-lii'"ME-Tii'.ifiii··;;ot4o-scui.t···--· ................................................................ THE METS ARE POND SCUM A"l"Ex:·ih;~·.;;;·i;;;·ih;·~;;;ii~·(:,;;;;;;;i;;g·i~ 1¥.!3 library reception and at Keenan's SYA)· It felt so good I JIM K. NEXT TIME LETS JUST SKIP THE WHITNEY AND GO STRAIGHT TO  iiiii:P·.-·,·~;;;d··C3;:s·;~;·ui,£g;;;;~··c~;;g lost parents flrat time In S.B. Big money. Call Suzette 233-5398 Boya of the Barbet'lhop: What Ia aax really all about? I have an Idea. It you cen •ecore" an Idea, I'll give you $200. P.S. H'a more than red, white, and blue striped condoms. WH Prltchatt and Ned Bolcer join Rick Rletbrock on Speeklng of Sporta tonlghtllllll  
CIDI!NTL Y PICKED UP YOUR WHITE JACKET. CALL 284-4431 SO THAT WE CAN RETURN IT TO YOU.  HELP Ill Must have 3 GA's tor USCI $$$ WILL PAY$$$  unaocoatomed to exciting NO social scene seek ladles to halp them adjust. SYA'a? Call3 Matt's n' a John 234-7385.  THE J.T. , I'M A SUCKER FOR THE FIRE AND RAIN STORY. P.S. THE DONGEA LIVES IN FLANNEA.  ;;;;.ri~""""""'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"''"'""''"'""""'"'"''"'" I'm 1000 aorry Julie  
LOST-·····--LOST··········LOST TEN­NIS RACQUETS •••••• outalda of aouth dining hall ·····1¥.!2 2 precision grephlte racqueta with green strings (with covers) Pleaae call It you have ANY clue about thalr location. I don't care It they were taken by mlatake. Just return them pleaaa. Large reward offarad. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, call Jim at £1760 LOST: A dark grMn Caribou-type backpeck. lnltllla ahould be on out· aida IIIQ. llelleva to be loatln Library. Chria 1248.  Pleaae call ROBIN x3832 DESPERATELY NEED 1 NAVY TIX (WILL TRADE USC TIX) CALL 2545. WILL SWAP 2 GA BAMA TIX FOR 2 GA BC TIX. 239-5740 NEED 7 USC GA'S PLEASE HELP CALL PAT 289-4635 PITT TIX PLEASEIIIIIIANY NUM­BEA,(nearty)ANY PAICE.CALL STEVE X-3088 $$$I'M DESPEAATEIIII I NEED BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS  ................................................................ MORE Purdue quot11 "I'm In love with your daughter." "I don't think we'll be eating too many hotdogs In lhe first halt." "Bieaugh, Bleaugh, Huaauch." "At least I didn't get any on the tie -or stall the car." "Please do no fill coolers with this Ice." ................................................................ Busy, overachieving male looking for love toy to spend his money. Contact Bill at 11 08 If Interested.  Jane Ann, Were you in bad by 4am? Or did you have to spend 19.95 on a single? Or was that a double? Dan, How does your mother make your eggs? And when do we get to meet your sister?  Need tickets to any horns gama, either G.A. or student. I will do ANYTHINGIIII Call 284-4372 any time day or night, es­pecially when M.J. Ia taking a nap. $$$$$ Winkle, Winkle little star, How I wonder what real men are. They rank on girls day and night, But would they turn down a night of paaalon If the lime was right? MONARCH Tonlte at Theodore's 11-t Sean and the Sun Kings at 9  ................................................................ I LOVE U­NOW IS TOUGH .... I UNDERSTAND. JUST KEEP ME IN MIND. I'LL BE HERE... ARMS OUTSTRETCHED -1 LOVE U,ALSO My dearest Pugsley, II Isn't the same here without you. The day just won't come socn enough before we can sea each other again. Nov 8-l'm yoursl Love forever, Sweet Thing  
AND USC TICKETS. AS MANY AS YOU CAN SPARE. PLEASE CALL 3257 AND  "Becky, got anything you'd like to get  $2 cover to support Overseas Develop­ment Network  TALL & HANDSOME GUY AT THE  
FOR RENT COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959  ASK FOR BRIAN. ................................................................ GA'S WANTED ••• 2 USC AND 4 ALA· BAMA CALL BILL AT X3386 ANYTIME HELPII NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVYI CALL DON X2041 AND WE'LL TALK BUCKS.  off?" "Not that that I can say In the newspa­per." .................................................. Spook, Thanks for turning old on us. -the Beasties  Oh, and Brian... Lobsters don't make very good SYA dates. I here they pinch.  LAW STUDENTS! Monarch tonight at Theodore's 11-1 Featuring Kevin Berry and Peter Grenier JENNIFER FREIDHOFF­ SNITE LIFE EXHIBIT Frl, Sept 25 be· tween 10:45 & 11 :30am-glrl In rad skirt & jean jacket would like to meat you. Reply here If Interested. Billy Jones-U A the coolest SYA. I had a wondertul time. Thanx. Laura  - 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 255-3884-288·0955 3 BEDROOM APTM BEAUTIFUL  Looking for extra money? I need 2 stud. or GA'a for USC GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEYI Call Tom x3248. .....................................'11.........................  ................................................................ Quote from an SYA: "Is It mandatory to mash with your date?"  Speaking of pinches, I'm in one ...  only 4 days to go... Thank-you St. Jude  THANKS FOR THE BOOT ·ROTO 1  
RENOVATED HOME 10 MIN FROM CAMPUS 233 8298 SEEKING APARTMENT-MATE TO SHARE SUNNY,FAESHL Y DECORATED 2 BDAM. FLAT IN HIS­TORIC HOME 2 11.! M FROM CAMPUS.  WANT LARGE PROFITS? SELL ME BAMA GA TICKETSIII CALL ED £1826 .... ········ ........ NAVY-NEED 4 GA'S OR STUD'S. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL JOHN x1887  -nameleaa freshman, who rooms with a famed A.M. Laura, What do you say we go out at 3 a.m. for some fried zucchini? Afterwards, we can look at pictures of the snake ... Or would  Mark, you really don't have to pull over to lhe side of the road and show us your snake.  WHAT ARE YOU DOING AFTER GRADUATION? COME SEE IF VOLUN­TEER WORK IS FOR YOUI POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES DAY OCT. 1 12-4 P.M. C.S.C  Mark Aspelln: Thank U for Friday's SYA. I had a great time. Jessica Leg Licker and "I'm nakedll"  
$2251NCLUDES ALL, EVEN LAUNDRY. CALL MARY: 2335085 OR 2881202  NEED 6 USC GA'S--WILL PAY $$$$1 CALL 213·721·4050  you rather see It In person? .................................................................  BETH, WHERE THE HELL IS texas?  You're great guys ... glad we're friends. From your tat victims. P.S. nice gepl  

------~~---~------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 29, 1987
page 8 

Rugby Club improving, takes third in tourney 
The Rugby Club prepared for Saturday's show­down with Marquette by placing third in the Indiana-Kentucky Union tourney in Indianapolis last weekend. 
The Irish defeated Indiana State, 19-0, in the first round before losing to Purdue, 7-6, in the semifinals. They came back to down Indiana, 3-0, in the con­solation game to improve their season record to 
4-1. 
"I was pleased with the way the team played," Club President Tim O'Connell said. "Defensively, we played really well. We had a couple of opportu­nities to win against Purdue. It was our second game of the day, and they had a bye into the second round. I think we played well considering the cir­cumstances." 
Notre Dame placed five players on the all-tourney team. O'Connell, Sean Evers, Bill Young, Jack McLaughlin and Francis Camillo received that honor. O'Connell also credited Andy Shea, Matt Senecal and Jim Lammers with contributing to the third-place finish. 
In earlier games this season, the Irish downed Michigan, 20-12, and Western Illinois, 19-3. "The season is going great so far," O'Connell said. "A lot of the younger guys are catching on to 

a basically unfamiliar game, and they're pretty dedicated to it." The game against Marquette will begin Saturday at 1:30 on the rugby field behind Stepan Center. 
~~~ 

The Sailing Club raced some of the toughest com­petition in the country in the Danmark Regatta at the Coast Guard Academy last weekend and came 
Greg Guffey 

• ,_ ;-}i 
/

Club Corner ·-~/ 
away with a 15th-place finish in the 18-team field. 
One big handicap that hurt the Irish was that all of the other teams compete on the varsity level, while they sail on the club level. 
"They had all of the best sailors," racing captain Pete Wall said. "We sailed pretty well. We didn't do anything wrong. They know more about making a boat go. 
"If another midwest s~hool had been there, they 
Twins clinch 

Blue Jays, Tigers both lose 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Dale Sveum's three-run double capped a four­run fifth inning that lifted the Milwaukee Brewers to a 6-4 vic­tory over the first-place Toronto Blue Jays Monday night. 
Despite the loss, the Blue Jays remained two-and-a-half games ahead of second-place Detroit in the American League East race because the Tigers lost to Baltimore 3-0. 
Milwaukee sent 10 batters to the plate in the fifth, chasing starter Mike Flanagan and reliever Duane Ward before Mark Eichhorn ended the rally. 
Bill Wegman, 11-11, allowed four hits and two runs in 6 1-3 innings before giving way to Paul Mirabella, who allowed one hit in two innings. Mark Clear got the last two outs for his sixth save despite his throw­ing error that allowed two runs to score. 
Flanagan, 6-8, was the loser, allowing four runs on seven hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
Orioles 3, Tigers 0 
DETROIT -John Habyan pitched a five-hitter for 8 1-3 innings and Pete Stanicek had an RBI single and scored two runs Monday night as the Bal­timore Orioles beat the Detroit Tigers 3-0. 

Jack Morris, 18-11, gave up eight hits in eight innings and lost his third straight start. He walked five and struck out 10. 
Twice the Tigers bailed Mor­ris out with inning-ending double plays, but he allowed the leadoff man to reach base five times in the first seven in­nings. 
Yankees 9, Red Sox 7 
NEW YORK -Pinch-hitter Mike Easler's two-run homer capped a six-run, ninth-inning rally Monday night that gave the New York Yankees a 9-7 victory over the Boston Red Sox. 
Easler's fourth homer of the season came off Calvin Schiraldi, the fourth Red Sox reliever in the ninth, after pinch-hitter Jerry Royster hit a two-run single off loser Joe Sambito, 2-6. 
Mariners 5, Royals 1 
KANSAS CITY -Lee Guetter­man pitched a four-hitter for six innings and Phil Bradley drove in two runs as the Seattle 
Domer Runs results 
Special to The Observer 
The Domer Runs were held Saturday. The event is sponsored by NVA. 
In the three-mile competi­tion, Mike Regan finished ahead of Joe Brink to cap­ture the men's undergradu­ate championship. Nancy Laughlin won the women's undergraduate champion­

-ship with Jennifer Brennan taking second. 
G. Bassham took the men's graduate title, with Timothy Shannon grabbing second. LeAnne Morris won the women's graduate divi­sion. 
Prashant Kanat captured the men's faculty and ad­ministration crown. 
In the six-mile competi­tion, Paul DeLave finished ahead of Tim Weber and Dave Flickingen to win the men's undergraduate divi­sion. 

Beth Mirko won the wo­men's undergraduate title with Lisa Jilk taking second. 
It was Devadatta Utmoni taking the men's graduate division, and Scott Hardek taking second. 
Christina Amatrudi took the women's graduate title. 
James Morningstan won the men's · faculty and ad­ministration division, with 
Patrick  Gaffney  taking  
second.  
Anita Domingo took  the  

women's faculty and admin­istration division, and Sheila Carty took second. 
Mariners beat Kansas City 5-l Monday night. 
Guetterman, 10-4, made his first start since Aug. 15 when Mark Langston was rested be­cause of the flu. Jerry Reed, who relieved at the start of the seventh, allowed two hits over three innings for his sixth save. 
Twins 5, Rangers 3 
ARLINGTON -Light-hitting Steve Lombardozzi knocked in four runs with a homer and a single Monday night, giving the Minnesota Twins a 5-3 victory over the Texas Rangers and their first American League Western division title since 1970. 
Irish 

continued from page 12 
"Everything possible did go wrong," said Grace. "But I felt good about the way we played. We did everything we needed to do to win. " 
Everything clicked for the Irish in the 5-0 drubbing of Bos­ton College. McCourt and midfielder Joe Sternberg each recorded two goals, and Paul LaVigne, playing forward for the first time, scored his first goal of the season with less than a minute to play. Morris had two of the assists. 
IRISH ITEMS -Indiana, on the strength of wins over Akron (1-0) and St. Louis (3-1), leapfrogged to first place in this week's Great Lakes region poll. Akron dropped to second and Notre Dame, the only un­defeated team in the region, held at third. Bowling Green is fourth and Evansville is fifth...McCourt was named the MVP on offense for the tournament...the injury list from the weekend had Roemer, McCourt, Guignon and Steve Lowney each missing part of the two games because of in­juries. They should all be ready for tonight's game...both senior keeper Tim Hartigan and senior midfielder Paul Gluckow are expected to begin practicing this week after mis­sing a month each with knee· injuries. 
wouldn't have done as well as we did. We learned how to make a boat go faster off the start and how to use the rules more to our advantage." 
The Irish will travel to the University of Michigan to compete in the Cary-Price Regatta this weekend. 


After a 2-0 loss to Saint Mary's earlier in the week, the Women's Soccer Club rebounded for a 1-0 victory over Purdue Saturday. 
Teresa Sheppard scored the lone goal on a penalty shot in the first half, while goalie Helen Gilboy re­corded the shutout. 
"The defensive play was very good," Club Pres­ident Kate Titterton said. "Helen Gilboy played a fantastic game; she was very impressive. We really played well together." The Irish, now 2-3-1, play at Saint Mary's today at 4:30. They host Hope Col­lege Thursday at 4 p.m. and then travel to Miami of Ohio Saturday for a 2 p.m. contest. 


The Women's Golf Club did not compete in its scheduled tourney at Purdue last week. The team will be back in action next Monday with a match at Evansville. 

Sports Briefs 
The J.V. soccer team defeated Bethel College, 7-0, Thursday, but lost Sunday to the St. Joe Kickers Club, 5-2. Bret Bruder and Mark Crowe scored for the Irish. Larry Scalon had both assists. -The Observer 
The ski team will collect $100 deposits for anyone interested in the Christmas Trip to Telluride, Co., tomor­row from 7-9 p.m. the main lobby of LaFortune. Any ques­tions, call J.P. at 271-9082. -The Observer 
The Alpine Club's registration for the Michigan canoe trip is Friday, October 3. If you haven't registered yet, call Shawn Foley at 271-0758. Registration for the October Break trip to the Smokey Mountains should also be completed by Friday. -The Observer 
The Racquetball Club's league schedules are not ready. The Club cannot get enough court time so it will play Tuesdays andf Thursdays starting next week. Ques­tions, call Dave (1425) or Mark (1422). -The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramurals co-ed flag football. For more information and sign-up forms contact Angela Athletic Facility at 284-5549. -The Observer 
SMC basketball tryouts will begin Sunday, October 4, from 6-8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Players must have a physical to try out. For more information, call 5548. -The Observer 
A little marching canputyou astepaheadof every other college graduate. 
Get your career off to a fast start. 
Enroll in the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps now. And you could graduate with both a college degree and an officers commission in the U.S. Army. 
Army ROTC is the college elective that gives you the confidence, leadership skills and discipline essential to any successful career, civilian or military. 
Get the experience and responsibility other graduates will have to wait years for. Talk 
to your Professor of Military Science, today. 
INTERESTED??? Call Captain Domingo 239-6264 
V) D­
B ~ 
u 
z
-
z 
~ 
r­
~ 
uJ 
u
-
w..... 
w..... 
0 
~ 
uJ 
C.f) 
~ 
< ~ 

Tuesday, September 29, 1987 The Observer page 9 


<~ ~~-'­
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team combined strong offense and sharp defense to hold the Boilermakers to a 1-1 tie Sat­urday at Purdue. 
Head Coach Tom Van Meter said he felt his team passed up some promising opportunities. 
"Early in the game, K.C. Chandler had a strong kick from outside that just missed, hitting the left post," he said. 
Van Meter was pleased with his team's consistent pressure on the Boilers and felt his defense was key. 
The visitors put the first point on the scoreboard. Five minutes into the second half, Mollie Meehan scored an unas­sisted goal from the corner. 

The Belles posed another threat later in the half when three SMC forwards suwonded the goal, only to have the ball blocked by a Boiler defender. 
With a mere three minutes left in the game, the Boilers caught the Belles off guard and evened the score at one apiece. 
"We played well at times," said Van Meter, "but it was our sloppy play at the end of the game that hurt us." 
The Belles take on Notre Dame at home today at 4:30 p.m. 
ommumcat10n 
directed by Father Arthur Harvey Wed., Oct. 7-Sat., Oct. 10 Sunday, October 11 Washington Hall 

$6 Main floor $5 Balcony $4 Students/Senior Citizens (Wed., Thurs., Sun) 
For MasterCard/Visa orders or inform~tion: (219) 239-5957 noon-6 P.M. weekdays 

8:10P.M. 3:10P.M. 

SMC tennis takes fourth place, gains experience in tourney 
By HEATHER ATKINSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team placed fourth this weekend in the tournament held at Leeper Park. The tournament did not affect the regular season stand­ings so the Belles remain unde­feated with a record of 9-0. 
There were eight teams in the competition, which was an individually-flighted tourna­ment with a feed-in consola­tion, meaning that all equally seeded players were in a draw together and must be defeated twice to be out. 
Each player played four or five matches each day. This tested the endurance and ten­nis ability of the players. 
"The tournament is a really good opportunity to play the NCAA division I schools in preparation for the district tournament in October," said coach Debbie Lauverie. "All of the schools we played were NCAA, except for Saint Frances, and I think to finish fourth as the only non­scholarship school is excel­lent." 
Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, who isba­sically administrative, ran the tournament for Saint Mary's allowing Lauverie to devote her total concentration on the coaching of the team. 
Many Saint Mary's players turned in outstanding perfor­mances. 
Freshman Sarah Mayer finished in third place with im­pressive wins. Mayer beat a Saint Frances College player, the Belles biggest rival, and also a Butler player. 
"I was very impressed with Sarah's performance," said Lauverie. "She showed a lot of heart as well as talent." 
Mary Turk, also a freshman, finished in third place as well. She beat a senior player from Toledo University. 
''At the beginning of the year, I knew she (Turk) had a lot of talent but her improvement has really impressed me," Lauverie said. "She's become a major contributing factor for our team." 
Turk also teamed up with Jane Schnell to defeat Toledo in the final consolation for third place in the doubles competi­tion. 
Also victorious in the doubles category were Charlene Szajko and Mayer who defeated 

/ 

Xavier University in a long match. 
The tournament provided an excellent opportunity to deter­mine the full potential of each girls' tennis talent. 
"We've been playing a lot of schools our size up until now and I knew going into the tourn­ament that it would be a real telltale sign of how good we really were," said coach Lauverie. "I was very happy with how they played against the NCAA schools." 
Toward the end of the tourn­ament the Belles won three im­portant matches because of their strong endurance that outlasted the opponents'. Some players' confidence levels were low, however, and they were defeated. 
"A few players lost really close matches. I feel they were just as good as the big schools' players but our girls didn't believe they were," said Lauverie. "But all in all, after three years of coaching, this year's team is by far the best team I've ever coached. I'm very impressed with them." 
The next match for the Belles will be October 2 against Taylor University. 


The Observer I Trey Raymond The Saint Mary's volleyball team lost the first back strong to take the match. Usa Jusclk has game against Siena Heights College, but came the details below. 
Happy 21st Birthday Julia!! 
~r······..···········•······················· 
FREE HAIRCUT, PERM, & 
COLOR 
Women needed for professional 
& fashion seminar to demonstrate 
the latest hairstyles & fashion. 
This is your chance for a great 
new look from a national hair 
designer. For further information call Vicki at Maly's. 
256_2033 

Open 8:30-5 pm 
Saint Mary's comeback beats Siena 
By LISA JUSCIK Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team added another win to its record. The Belles defeated Siena Heights College last Friday, 5-15, 15-12, 15-7, 15-12. 
Their record now stands at 7-3. 
Despite the loss in the first game, the Belles fought back and won the next three games. 
The Belles served 10 aces to aid them in their victory. Mar­garet Feldman had 19 kills and Mary McCarthy chipped in 39 setting assists for the kills that were taken. 
The Belles will travel to Bet­hel College for a match today. 

NL roundup 

Mets beat Phils 
Associated Press Puhfhad four hits and Davis 
three, including a three-run 
PHILADELPHIA -Howard homer, in the Houston attack. Johnson doubled home the Jim Deshaies, 11-6, was the game's only run in the second winner with relief help from inning and John Candelaria and Jeff Heathcock, who pitched two relievers combined on a the final four innings for his seven-hitter as the New York first save. Deshaies gave up Mets beat the Philadelphia five runs on seven hits before Phillies 1-0 Monday night. leaving in the sixth. 
The victory moved the Mets within two games of the idle Reds 6, Braves 5 National League East -leading St. Louis Cardinals. CINCINNATI -Homers by 
Candelaria won his second Buddy Bell and Barry Larkin game without a loss since being highlighted a six-run fourth in­acquired Sept. 15 from the Cal­ning that carried Cincinnati to ifornia Angels. Candelaria, 8-6 a 6-5 victory over the Atlanta 
in the American League, Braves Monday night, preserv­worked five innings, allowed 
The Observer Tuesday, September 2 9, 1987 
Irish linebacker 

Pritchett plays with abandon 
By THERESA KELLY "I always want to be in the expected. He has all the impor­middle of the action," he says. tant qualities: size, quickness, 
Sports Writer 

"I want to be right in the thick ability and he's a hitter. "All I "He likes to put the hurt on of things, where the plays are had to do was work with him an opponent." happening." on some technique and fun­
So says Irish defensive co­Defensive coordinator and damentals." ordinator Foge Fazio about in­inside linebacker coach Fazio Life on the defensive side was side linebacker Wes Pritchett. has had a big effect on not always so promising. As a 
A senior, Pritchett makes the Pritchett in the coach's two freshman, Pritchett consid­most of his playing time with years at Notre Dame. ered leaving Notre Dame. a style that is agressive, to say "Coach Fazio has really in­"In football, or for any fresh­the least. fluenced my game and man, there's a big adjustment. 
"I see myseif as someone myself," says Pritchett. "He I was a long way from home who gives 100 percent," says really stressed the fundamen-and not getting playing time. Pritchett. "To be successful in 
"I had my doubts, thought football, you have to give about leaving and playing everything, even if it means somewhere else. I stayed be­you get a bit out-of -control." cause I knew no matter what 
Pritchett tries to downplay else, I'd get a great education." Lhe intense effort he gives by For Pritchett, the decision making it sound commonplace. turned out to be the right one. 
"It's a full speed contact "The playing time eventu­game. You have to sacrifice ally came around," he says. your body to make or have an "I'm glad I stayed. It's an effect on the play," he says. honor to play for Notre Dame. 
"When Wes plays, he takes It's a special place to be and no prisoners," says Fagio. "He especially to play football." takes pleasure in playing hard Pritchett, from Atlanta, in­
and tough." jured his knee against Mic­
Wes Pritchett

Pritchett takes those type of higan State, and the time he comments as compliments. tals and the responsiblities I was out of play hurt more than 
"What I do gets the job have as a linebacker. the knee. done," he says. "I'm glad when "He calls us to the sidelines "It affected me a bit (against people say things like that. It's during the game and goes over Purdue). I was not as quick as not a negative at all." game situations--tells us what usual, but what hurt most was 
Pritchett split time with Ron we can expect from the other not getting into practice until Weissenhofer last year and team." Thursday. I don't want to sit took over his inside linebacker Fagio returns the compli­and watch." spot as a starter this season. ments to his linebacker. So Pritchett will throw his He says the label No-Name ''A new coach can only judge best efforts, and himself, if nec­defense did not bother him. by what he sees," says Fagio. essary, at the opposing offen­
"We were called the No­"But I will say this, Wes was ses. Names because we had eight well-coached before I got here. "I don't want to be too out­new starters, but I never "Wes is a very, very agres­of-control," he says. "But I will thought we were sacrificing sive person--he has a tough always hustle, be agressive, anything over last year,'' he style of play. He has had some and give everything I can to the says. "We've proven we can injury trouble, but that's to be game." play, and play well. We weren't 
expected to do much, but we s.JO"'_,.,.,.,.,JO"'.,..................J'"..r..r..r....-.........r..............................r....-...........-...............................,....r....-....-....-...........................1 can." Pritchett plays an important § ~ in this year's defense, which 
~ Knollwood Country Club ~ 
has proven itself against three tough opponents. 
"He's the leader, the quar­~ is looking for part-time waiters and~ terback of the defense. He sets 
waitresses for the formal dining rooms and ~ 
up the defense," says Fagio. "He's intense and always banquets. ~
I

aware of the game situation. § can virtually guarantee $6.001u. § 
"Wes is a real intelligent 8 no experience Is necessary, will train. S football player. He sets high ~ must be able to work weekends and through the holiday §standards for himself and ~ season. 8~ everyone else." 
§ Call Tony at 277-1541 to set up an appointment ~~ Pritchett says he enjoys the 8 or apply in person between 3 and 5 p.m. Tues-Fri.
position he plays and the re­
8 S
Knollwood Is located at 16633 Baywood Ln.
sponsibilities he has on 
~ (Just off Grape Road) 8
defense.


ing the Reds' slim chance in 
cr..r..rJ""J""..r..r..r~..r..r..r.JO"'..r..r..r..r..r.JO"'..r..rJ""..r..;QO-..r..r..r..r...co--~..o--..rJ""....e'~
four hits, struck out three and the National League West. r-----------­
walked one. The Reds overcame a 5-0 def­
f%t 

icit to temporarily avoid giving 
Sai'ntMarv's CollPOi~ 
the division title to the San 
J_ !:::b 
Astros 11, Dodgers 5 Francisco Giants, who needed 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA just one victory or a loss by Cin-HOUSTON -Terry Puhl hit a cinnati to clinch their first divi­
1987-88 grand slam home run and sion championship since 1971. 
PERFORMING ARTS Glenn Davis also knocked in Gerald Perry hit a three-run 

SERIES 

NIGHTCLUB 
four runs to lead the Houston homer in the Braves' four-run Astros to an 11-5 victory over first inning off Ted Power, and 
PRESENTS 

University Night EVERY
the Los Angeles Dodgers Mon­s0cborekdfa g~in in thedthird on Ken 

THE 
day night. er e11 s groun out. 

Tuesday Night ND takes second 
Special to The Observer Doug Giergio was the top 


10 CENT 
finisher for Notre Dame The Notre Dame golf team with rounds of 76 and 77 ( 153 used a strong second round total) -good for fifth in a field 

DRAFTS
to post a second-place finish of 175. Dick Connaly finished at the Indiana Intercol­at 157 (81-76) to place in the 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2 

1.50 Mugs of Margaritas
legiates held at the Golf Club top 10. 
8:00P.M
on Indiana in Zionsville. Pat Mohan shot a 159 (81­

and
After the first round of 18, 78), while Paul Nota finished 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
the Irish were fourth in the at 161 (79-82) and Terry Ber­

$1.00 Cover with NotreDam61St.
SAINT MARY'S COWGE back with a round of 313 to The Irish finished one shot 
field of 15. They came back land at 166 (80-86). 
Mary's ID
TICKETS: $7.50, $6.50, $550
finish with a combined 329 ahead of Indianapolis, which 
North Village Mall 
-18 shots behind champion shot a team total 630 (312­
$1.00 off with student J.D. 
US 33 North
To Char~e By Phone: 284-4626
Ball State which finished 318), on a course rated 
visa, mastercard accepted
with rounds of 304 and 307 number-two in the state of 
277-1877
(611 total). Indiana. 

Tuesday, September 29, 1987 The Observer 

The Daily Crossword 
10:00a.m. -12:00a.m.: Computer Minicourse--Introduction to the PC and MS­DOS, Microcomputer Laboratory, Computing Center, limit 10. To register, call Betty-239-5604. 
lO:OOa.m. -12:00a.m.: Computer Minicourse--MacWrite (Word Processor) Room 115 Computing Center, limit 12. To register, call Betty 239-5604. 
12:00p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar-"International Finance, The State, and Capital Accumulation; Mexico in Latin American Perspective," by Sylvia Maxfield. Room 131, Decio Hall. 
3:00p.m. -5:00p.m.: Computer Minicourse-Mail and Bitnet Terminal Labora­tory, Computing Center, limit 30. To register, call Betty-B239-5604. 
3:30p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Gas Solid Reactions: Role of Solid Inerts," by Professor L.K. Doraiswamy, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30p.m.: Soccer -SMC vs. Notre Dame. SMC Soccer Field. 4:30p.m.: Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages Lecture -c"Werther With­out Pistols," by Dr. Ross Chambers, University of Michigan. Library Lounge. 5:00p.m.: Memorial Mass for the Parents of Father E. William Beauchamp, Sacred Heart Church. Father Edward Malloy, homilist. 5:00p.m.: Hispanic -American Organization meeting, Breen-Philips puzzle room. 7:00p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "Les Enfants Du Paradis," Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30p.m.: Soccer-ND vs. Bowling Green. Cartier Field. 

7:30p.m.: College of Arts and Letters Distinguished Visiting Scholars Series -The Dept. of Anthropology Series. Theme: The Nature of Human Nature. "Biology and Culture in Human Behavior and Evolution," by Dr. Irven DeVore, Dept. of Anthropology, Harvard University. Library Lounge. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Pita Pocket Calzone Beef and Vegetable Stir Fry 
Roast Beef Baked Fish Make Your Own Burrito Cheese Crisps Bar Deli Bar 
Egg Foo Young 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 thrqugh Observer advertising. fQrdetalls. 
ACROSS 1 Levee 5 Lively Latin 
dance 10 Hungry man's 
slice 14 Wotan 15 Dutch ­16 Tramp 17 Musical sign 18 Carp cousin 19 Merely 20 Party held by 
Hawkeye? 22 Spooky 24 Lasso 25 "Of -and 
Men" 26 Bog 29 Money belt? 33 Oct. 
birthstones 34 Same 35 -Guevara 36 TV's -Carter 37 Small change 38 Study hard 39 Three In Roma 40 "Tiny -" 
(Albee) 

41 City of brotherly love: abbr. 
42 Mess hall 
melee? 44 "The -Girls" 45 Orient 46 MediOi&l!l 47 Goldll&!ks' 
hosts 49 Ogden's skin 
problem? 53 Munich mister 54 Golf clubs 56 Division word 57 Posted 58 Ancient Gr. 
belts 59 Brad 60 Three-spot 61 Precipitous 62 Raison d' ­
DOWN 1 Students' pad 2 Thought 3 Osculate 

©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 09/29/87All Rights Reserved 
4 Bewitch 5 Belts 6 Part of a 
Stein line 7 Jacob's wife 8 Bursa 9 Non-believers 
10 Seasides 11 Anderson 
of TV 12 Competent 13 Lad 21 Foreman 23 Yodeler's 
feedback 25 Photo finish 26 Calendar 

division 27 "Manon" e.g. 28 Wheezes 38 Pool necessity 48 Crossword 29 Snap 40 Heb. month bird 30 Caustic 41 Luxurious 49 Pry 31 011 producer 43 Hale's partner 50 Med. subj. 32 Macho fellow 44 Back-fence 51 Mix 34 Believer chatter 52 Pit 37 Noteworthy 46 "A votre -" 53 FOR's VP 
works 47 Suds 55 Soak flax 

Berke Breathed 

0f(J5, ffAR.,. I MAY 
ONLY 8€ A H€1/T HAW/CI­I fllflN'T f?/115€ 
fiNfl YOf/ Wilt.. TIIK€ NIITION. 8IfT IIY! 5T/£L 
NOW (7(JT YOf/R WIT5 " 
1/8()(/T '101/ 1/Nfl JI/6T 
MY 50N 1rJ 86 

CIIR€ Of THIIT !31& 'y(}(JR MOTliel( IINfl 
~u 'fOIIR um€ 

ZIT ON YIJ(/f( MJ5€. YOI/U lf5TeN TO 111€ N' 
II QII!T'TeR I 
fiiNNY ()(/T Of 7H/5 
fllfl I '? 

WON'T YOII, fl£'111?? fl€seF?T M655 1 
I
\
\._ 

"Consider yourself fortunate, Belsky .... N curses go, that sure beats having your descendants strangled In the night by a walking corpse." 
SUB presents: 

LEIHAL ON 
Wednesday & Thursday 7:00/ 9:15/ II :30 pm 
$2.00 
Engineering Auditorium No food or drink allowed. 


Sports 
Tuesday, September 29, 1987 · 
page 12 

Soccer team to face Falcons after season's first 'non-win' 
By PETE GEGEN Deja vu struck Notre Dame Notre Dame gave up the own Assistant Sports Editor as the team tried to defend its goal in the first half when for­tournament title. Two seasons ward Danny Stebbins slipped The 9-0-1 Irish soccer team ago the Irish finished second in as he tried to clear a centering returns home tonight to host a this tour~ament when they tied pass. McCourt answered with key 7:30 p.m. regional match Miami (Ohio) in the final a goal at the 64:36 mark on an against Bowling Green. game, but total goal differen­assist from wingback Paul 
The 6-0-1 Falcons are ranked tial for the two games was used LaVigne. fourth in the Great Lakes to declare a winner and Miami Forward Randy Morris was region, having lost only to In­was declared the champion. whistled for a off-sides call ori diana. Last year Bowling the first of those three goals. 
-·--~.:%4

Green was the key match in a This time Notre Dame held Then Grace said he felt the ref­···~~ ~.;, ~ /..._. 
-••w

three-game slump which hurt the edge in goal differential, eree was too quick with the ~~ ---~'~-"~ ~#I'{*~
the Irish in the region. but the title was decided on whistle when McCourt was 
..., ­

"The next two games will de­penalty kicks. The situation smashed on a head ball by a 
... __ -.,.,,

termine how the rest of the wouldn't have been so bad if defender. Morris took the loose ~----­season will go,'' said Irish head Notre Dame had been informed ball and scored, but the play ::I:'\,,-­
• If......

coach Dennis Grace. "We're of the change before the tourn­was called back and Notre 
coming off two games in a row, ament. Instead the team Dame was given a free kick ·­
'/<.~~

the last one going to overtime learned of the change from the from 40 yards away, clearly 

"""' ..

in a very emotional game, so public address announcer in taking away the advantage. we really have to be ready for the overtime period. Stopper Steve LaVigne put in them." "They didn't tell us anyth­the last of the three non-goals 
ing," said Grace. "Winnil}.i. the . with a header off a corner. But Grace gave the team Monday tournament was not as i"'f)or­the referee called forward Pat off to recover from the tant as winning the game, but Murphy for obstructing the 
weekend Wright State tourna­keeper.
the way the situation was han­ment. Saturday, the Irish dled was terrible." After a scoreless overtime,thrashed Boston College' 5-0 Grace was also upset with the the teams went to penalty kicks before Wright State, the 9th­officiating. Notre Dame scored despite Grace's protests. Kurt 
ranked team in the region, five goals in the 1-1 tie--an own­Roemer, Johnny Guignon and 

handed Notre Dame its only goal to give the Raiders an Mike Drury connected, but non-win on the season thus far Murphy and Rolfe Behrje
early lead, a goal by Bruce
with a 1-1 tie Sunday. Penalty The Observer I Dan ua~lnnn••~
"Tiger" McCourt to tie the missed the mark as Wrightkicks then decided the tourna­game and three goals which State took the title. The Notre Dame soccer team plays host to Bowling Green ment champion as the Raiders were called back by the refer­Pete Gegen previews the match and details the team's weektmd won that competition 4-3. ee. see IRISH, page 8 action at left. 
Tennis team performs well as Bayliss takes over 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Penn State, West Virginia, over 15 seasons, "I know the cini from West Virginia. Man­last year, ending a Sports Writer Temple, Old Dominion, field and I know the team. Clm eventually won the dynasty. "The tournament served as tournament. "I'm excited to be here,"
Bloomsburg, Swathmore and 
a nice barometer," he said. "It said, "I've come at thethe Navy. The tournament, showed me what I needed to Notre Dame was second only possible time. With the newThe men's varsity tennis hosted by the Navy, was a 
know." to West Virginia in total num­Eck Pavillion just being built, team, under the new leadership flighted competition in which ber of matches won. West Vir-it will be easier to bring in newof Bob Bayliss, competed in its no team stats were kept. 
prospects."

first tournament of the year Not only was this the first ac­The individual performances last weekend. Bayliss, the new tion that Bayliss had coached of the players were impressive. ginia is one of the best Eastern Next weekend the Irish will head coach, is an 18-year vet­through, but it took place at the Five Irish players advanced to teams, according to Bayliss. play host for an invitational, eran who has taught tennis at Naval Academy, where he the semifinals. Brian Kalbas "I always thought we had a which will be attended by the Massachussettes Institute coached for 15 years. went in A-flight, Brian Wenger very deep team," said Bayliss, Purdue, Cornell, and Notre of Technology and the U.S. in B-flight, Dan Walsh and Paul "and this tournament proves Dame. The tournament was Naval Academy. "It was important to me," Daggs in C-Flight, and Sean it." changed in name from the Irish 
The Irish travelled to An­said the 42-year-old Bayliss, O'Brien in D-Flight. Kalbas, in Bayliss comes to Notre Invitational to the Tom Fallon napolis, Maryland where they who brought the Navy men's the semifinals in the most com­Dame after Tom Fallon retired Invitational in honor of the competed with players from tennis teams to a 248-80 record petitive flight, lost to Paul Man-from coaching men's tennis recently-retired head coach. 
ND rebounds from drubbing to dominate Olivet, 5-1 
By KATIE CRONIN in the last thirty seconds of the The Irish faced Olivet away Sports Writer second half. in Michigan yesterday after­Notre Dame managed only noon and played their own 'best 
While the sun was hot Satur­one shot on goal each half, by game yet' and won, 5-l. day afternoon in West forward Ann McGlinn and link "It wasn't an easy game. Lafayette, the Irish field Benet DeBerry. Purdue took a They were a big strong team," 
hockey team faced the heat in total of 26 shots on the Irish goal said co-captain M.J. Beetel. 
an early morning game as they "They scored first on a penalty were shut out by the Boiler­
stroke and played aggressive. makers 5-0. Our offense came through, "They were a much quicker, everything came together." more talented team then us," Olivet took io shots on the
'1.; <"·4'~ 
~-~ b-~ 

said Head Coach Jill Linden­Irish goal but Notre Dame had feld. "The defense held them a total of 37 shots on Olivet's off until the last minutes of the goal. The first Irish goal was first half, then they just kept scored by Caroline Berezny as­coming at us with speed and sisted by Benet DeBerry off a fast breaks. We broke down. corner hit taken by Janet Bud­And their coach felt it was their nick. Christine Gregory put the best game yet." ball in the cage with an assist 
Purdue player Kate Foley from DeBerry. Gregory also scored with 1: 14left in the first assisted on one of two goals
Jill Llndenfeld

half. She continued to hit for scored by Debbie Charles­the Boilermakers scoring an­and had 16 penalty corner hits worth. other goal in the second half to Notre Dame's none. Irish Charlesworth's other goal and assisting on two more-­goalie M.J. Beetel had 18 was assisted by Mindy Breen. both penalty corner hits put in goalkeeping saves against this Freshman Amy Bundens the cage by Leah Finkbiner. heavy pressure. scored on an assist from fellow The fifth and final Purdue goal "M.J. still played a great rookie Mary Beth Petriella to was scored by Karen Andrews game," said Lindenfeld. complete the Irish scoring. 
The Observer I Bob Jones The field hockey team lost to Purdue Saturday, but came back to defeat Olivet Monday. Katie Cronin has the details at right. 




