Mild, Sunny 
IACCENT: A new fight song? Partly sunny today, high In up­per 70s. Low tonight In the mid 50s. Partly sunny tomorrow,
IVIEWPOINT: Police raid problems high in the upper 70s. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 12 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Beauchamp's parents murdered 
By MARK PANKOWSKI livan said. Police had a Managing Editor description of a suspect, but had made no arrest late Tues­
The parents of University day. 
Executive Vice President Fa­The elderly couple had "not 
ther E. William Beauchamp been legally identified" by 
were murdered early Tuesday Tuesday night, he said. Univer­
in their home in Ferndale, sity officials, however, said the 
Mich., police and University of­two were the parents of Beau­
ficials said. champ. 
Edward and Mary Beau­The Notre Dame administra­champ were found dead at 6 tor was already in Detroit for 
p.m. Tuesday by a neighbor a Notre Dame club event, said and Beauchamp's sister, police University President Father and a Univeristy administrator Edward Malloy. Beauchamp said. was told of his parents' death 
The couple died of asphyxia­at the airport. tion, said Ferndale Police Chief "He's still in shock," Malloy Patrick Sullivan. He declined said. "It came as a complete to say whether they had been shock to all of us." strangled. Autopsies are scheduled for 
Sullivan said the couple's this morning, Sullivan said. house had been broken into, Once the autopsies are com­and a suspect was seen driving plete, police will release more in their car nearby. information on the murders. 
"Since lbeir car is missing, A Mass for the couple was robbery is the suspected mo­held Tuesday night at Alumni
The Observei'!'Mike Moran 
tive," a letter posted in Moreau Hall, where Beauchamp lives. 
Seminary said. Funeral arrangements were part of Arts and Letters Placement Night, where The murder occurred in the not complete Tuesday night, seniors tried to get the skills necessary to survive Detroit suburb between mid­the letter in Moreau Seminary after being thrust out Into the "real world." night and 6 a.m. Tuesday, Sui-said. 

Bush aides didn't relay hints of North's contra efforts 
Associated Press connections was overcharging sional Iran-Contra investigat­resupply effort earlier than he and Gregg did not tell Bush 
the Contras for weapons and ing committees, in sworn has acknowleged. their suspicions about the Con­
WASHINGTON -Aides to supplies because the informa­statements taken last May and Bush, a former director of tra resupply operation because Vice President George Bush tion was unproven and "not June, it is a mystery to them the CIA and now the frontrun­they "felt that the vice presi­received a stream of clues in­mature." how the words got into the ner for the 1988 Republican dent didn't need to know." dicating Lt. Col. Oliver North The words "resupply of the document, which was released presidential nomination, has Hart said Gregg supplies was "chairman of the board" Contras" appear in a memo Tuesday along with transcripts acknowledged knowing Bush with information about is­of a secret effort to resupply prepared for Bush by his staff of their testimony. Rodriguez. But he denies he sues he believes are "worthy"Contra rebels in Nicaragua, to describe the purpose of a 
The memo, dated April 30, was aware of private efforts to of the attention of the vice pres­
but they never told Bush, ac­meeting he and his aides were 1986, identifies Rodriguez as "a arm the Nicaraguan rebels at ident. cording to depositions and doc­to have with former CIA agent counterinsurgency expert who a time Congress had banned Phyllis Byrne, a secretary in uments made public Tuesday. Felix Rodriguez seven months is visiting from El Salvador." U.S. assistance. the vice president's office who 
One Bush associate, Army before the Iran-Contra affair It says he would brief Bush "on A Bush spokesman said typed the memo, said in a Col. Samuel Watson, said the became public last year. the status of the war in El Sal­Tuesday nothing in the deposi­
deposition the language was vice president was not told of But Watson and Donald vador and resupply of the Con­tions changes that. 

given her by Watson. Watson allegations that a group of cor­Gregg, Bush's national secur­tras." It raises the question Steve Hart, Bush's acting 

see Bush, page 7

rupt profiteers with unsavory ity adviser, told the congres-whether Bush knew about the press secretary, said Watson 

Presidents announce upcoming events 'Junior' 
dogbooks

By REGIS COCCIA p.m. and an outdoor student what we're here for." sioner Laurie Hollenbeck Assistant News Editor picnic at 5:30p.m. Becker also asked hall presi­spoke to hall presidents about "Really push this inaugura­dents to use the paper to adver­"Sophomore Sibs Weekend," cancelled 
Discussion at Tuesday tion," Salmon said. "It's really tise upcoming events. an annual event in which sop­night's brief Hall Presidents' going to be a historic event, as "If you have an activity and homores can bring younger By PAT HEALY Council meeting was limited to I've noted." you want people to know about brothers and sisters to campus. News Staff announcements on University Cooke said all hall presidents it, come up to The Observer of­Hollenbeck asked hall presi­President Father Edward Mal­should receive written invita­fices," Becker said. dents to schedule SYRs and for­The junior year dogbooks loy's inauguration, a senior tions to a luncheon with Malloy Salmon announced a senior mals around the Oct. 2-4 "Sop­for the class of 1988 will not class bonfire and "Sophomore after the inauguration cere­class pep rally will be held this homore Sibs" weekend, adding be distributed because the Sibs Weekend." mony. Thursday at 9 p.m. in the White that several rectors were reluc­contract with the publishing 
Student Body President Pat Kevin Becker, editor-in-chief Field next to Stepan Center. tant to reschedule hall dances company has been can-. Cooke and HPC Co-Chairman of The Observer, encouraged The pep rally will feature a for the event. celled, according to Diane Tim Salmon told hall presi­hall presidents to write in to bonfire and appearances by Eileen Doherty of Campus Fitzgibbon, senior class dents to announce the events of The Observer with any com­Notre Dame football players Ministry announced that a se­president. Malloy's inauguration of Sept. ments or complaints. Tim Brown and Reggie Ward. ries of retreat experiences will The contract was can­
23. "I often get a lot of questions Coffee and doughnuts will be be held for all interested stu­celled because of what last 
A 10 a.m. Inauguration mass from people about The Obser­provided at the Michigan game dents, beginning Oct. 11. year's Junior Class Presi­will be held in the Joyce Ath­ver and about the way we dealt this weekend by the senior Doherty said sign-ups for the dent Cathy Nonnencamp letic and Convocation Center. with a certain issue," Becker class. first retreat will be conducted called "technical difficul-Mass will be followed by an said. "We want to open up a bit In other business, Sopho­Sept. 26. see Dogbooks, page 3 Academic Convocation at 3 more, to the students. That's more Maior Events Commis­
------~--~----------~­
Wednesday, September 9, 1987
page 2 The Observer 



Both the young and old feel Seuss' magic hold 
In-Brief ~ · Gary Hart declared Tuesday night he did not plan to. re;-enter the 1~88 c?ntest and, in an extraordinary ad­mission, for the first time revealed he has been unfaithful to his wife. The former Colorado senator apologized for "th~ m~~takes that led" him to quit the race last May, saymg I am totally and fully responsible for my own actions and I want to say to everyone how sorry I am." He added, "I'm not a candidate for president and I have no plans to become one." Hart said during the 60-minute appearance on ABC-TV's "Nightline," "I am not running for president." -Associated Press Funeral services were scheduled Wednesday for John Tuckey, one of the nation's leading authorities on author Mark Twain and an English professor at Purdue University-Calumet for more than 30 years. Tuckey died Friday at St. Anthony Medical Center. He was 66. As a Twain authority, Tuckey focused primarily on the author's "dark period," the last 15 years of Twain's life. He wrote seven books and several articles and reviews. A World War II veteran, Tuckey earned degrees from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame after graduating from Warsaw High School. -Associated Press Of Interest ND and SMC students are needed to serve as tutors for illiterate adults at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. Tutors work one day per week, Mon­day through Thursday, from 1: 15-3: 15 p.m. Transportation is provided, and no experience is needed. For information, call Christopher at 1952. -The Observer Student loan checks are in the Cashier's Office, room 106 Administration. If you are expecting a check, please come to the cashier's office to endorse it. -The Observer Bacchus general meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Walsh basement. Refreshments will be served. Bring a friend, and bring ideas. Any questions, contact Jane Heisel at 2677. -The Observer The finance club will hold its first general meeting tonight in 122 Hays-Healy from 7 to 7:30 p.m. All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are welcome. -The Obser­ver Philosophy Club picnic will be held on Thursday at 4:30p.m. on the East side patio of Decio. All philosophy majors and students interested in philosophy are welcome. -The Observer The World Hunger Coalition will be holding its first meeting of the year tonight at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns to plan this semester's activities. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer The Philippine Club will hold its first general meeting today at 6 p.m. It will be held at the ISO lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune. All N.D. and SMC students invited. If unable to attend, call Peter at 1418. -The Observer The student ~overnment social concerns commission is holdmg a meeting for anyone interested in serving on the commission 8:30 Thursday, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune-The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
Design Editor ............ Mark McLaughlin Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Design Assistant ......... Bernadette Shilts VieU?point Copy Editor ... Mike Slaughter Layout Staff....................... Jodi Ziegler Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle ........................................... Joe Zadrozny Accent Loyout ................. Rachel O'Hara Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman Typists............................. Cathy Haynes ........................................ Chris Reardon ....................................... Jennifer Conlon News Editor ............. Ann Marie Durning ND Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle Copy Editor ....................... Tim O'Keefe SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Photographer ...................... Mike Moran Tile Olllenet' (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observet' is published by the students of the Univet'Sity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing The Observet', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Tile Observet' is a member of Tile Aaoclated Preu. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


I'm a Seuss fan, and I'm willing to admit it. 
When I showed up at Notre Dame and started preaching Seuss, people thought I was a bit off the wall. Undaunted, I continued, at parties, at dances, in the privacy of my own room, to show the world, or at least my unsuspecting room­mates, that Seuss goes "On Beyond Zebra," past Mulberry Street, and down into Whoville for a reason. 
Seuss's mission is to educate children before they become obsolete, i.e. adults. 
First of all, Seuss calls for children to imag­ine, to use those little heads that are now blocked by the Smurfs and the Laser Tag Academy on Saturday morning cartoons. 
Even the alphabet is not limited for Seuss. In "On Beyond Zebra," Seuss writes of "Conrad Cornelius O'Donald O'Dell I My very young friend who is learning to spell." At first, Little Conrad is convinced that the alphabet ends with the traditional z. He later uses his imagination to learn of a world beyond "zebra," to words like Yuzz-a-ma-tuzz, and "two brothers called VROOMS!Who strangely enough, are built sort of like brooms." The second of Seuss' focal points is the idea that children can, and must, save the world from the disasters that adults create. In three of my favorite books, Dr. Seuss addresses the issues of prejudice, abortion, and the arms race. 
In the short story "Sneetches," Seuss writes of the problems between the Star-bellied Sneetches and the plain-bellied Sneetches. The stars are minor in size, but major in sig­nificance. It is socially unacceptable to have a plain belly. The plain-bellied Sneetches concoct a method for putting stars on their stomachs so that they too will be accepted. The Star­bellied Sneetches promptly remove their stars and declare plain bellies as the way of life. This cycle continues until they all realize just how ridiculous the controversy has been. 
In the since-televised "Horton Hears a Who," Seuss addresses the issue of abortion. Horton, the friendly elephant, hears voices inside a dust speck he has picked up. Horton vows to protect the people inside the dust speck because, "A person's a person, no matter how small." Hor­ton has to battle the evil Wickersham brothers, who threaten to "boil that dust speck" because they don't see any people in it. In the end, the people in the dust spect call for help just loud enough, and the Wickersham brothers to leave the dust speck alone. 
In his most recent children's book, "The But­ter Battle Book," Seuss talks of avoiding the 
Jim Winkler 
Day Chief 

nuclear arms race. In the end, Seuss leaves the ultimate salvation up to the children. 
In "The Butter Battle Book," Seuss tells the tale of the Zooks and the Yooks, lifelong enemies. Their feud is based on the fact that they differ on which side of bread to butter. This has escalated into a cold war of sorts, com­plete with an arms race that ends up ultimately with the Bitsy Big-Boy Boomeroo, which, like our nuclear warheads, has the ability to destroy the entire opposition. Of course, both sides pos­sess one. The story ends with a young boy (again) waiting to see whether his grandpa or the enemy Vanltch will drop the Boomeroo first. Grandpa responds, in Seuss' voice, "We will see. We will see ..." 
Dr. Seuss has always been a favorite of children, ever since he removed the boring "See Dick run" from children's literature. His cre­ative rhyme schemes entertainingly carry the messages that he preaches. 
Next time you watch the Grinch "steal" materialism from Christmas, remember that Seuss is more than Cindy Lou Who and Max the dog. It is a lesson for children, and the rest of us, which lasts forever. 

Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday Call239·5303 thrQugh Observer advertising. fQr details. 

Join us for a MARRIAGE PREPARATION INFORMATION NIGHT 

fJ'uescfay, September 15tfi 
7:30pm '13adin 1fai( Offia 
Marriage preparation is a Diocesan requirement nationwide. Ifyou are getting married in Sacred Heart 



Church oryour own parish · you  
may do your marriage preparation  
here.  
••1  
ITS NEVER TOO SOON TO START!  ornoorc.0rv\rus MII,IISIRY  
Bodin Hall  239-5242  

-~

-----------....---------------------------..
----~ ------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 The Observer page 3 
lowed by the senior yearbook


Dogbooks 
in March. 


Board discusses funds, saftey 
Financially, the only loss the 

continued from page 1 
class suffered was from the 

ties" on the part of the junior class. She cited problems like poor negatives and lateness in completing the information for the dogbook. 
Even though the dogbook could have eventually been completed, the earliest possi­ble date would have been some­time in December. Fitzgibbon decided to cancel the contract because of the redundancy of having the class's junior dog­book come out in December fol­photographer's fee. Even though the money intended for the ill-fated dogbooks was kept in an account, the senior class made it clear that they received no interest on the funds because the account is controlled by the administra­tion. 
Jim Wimbiscus, Senior Class Treasurer, said that all stu­dents who ordered the junior book would receive a full refund of their nine dollar fee. 

By CHRISTINE MC CANN 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance met last night to discuss allocating funds to clubs and residence halls, holding semi­nars and classes on campus safety, and increasing library hours. 
Previously, clubs and halls received their funds in a lump sum. "In the future," Trea­surer Beth Connelly said, 
Now you can turn your favorite photo into your favorite poster-and get $2.50 off Champion Authentic Sportswear. 
Brighten your sorority or fraternity 
house. Dresa up your dorm room. 
Hang them around campus. Or use 
them as big gilts lor family or friends. 

12" x18" only $12.95 20" x 30" only $15.95 Just send us your favorite 35 mm nega­
tive, slide or print. We'll send you a crisp, colorful KODAK Poster Print In your choice of two super sizes. KODAK Poster Prints make your best times in school big times! 

And with each KODAK Poster Print ordered through October 16, 1987, we'll include a coupon worth $2.50 off any Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at $10 or more at your partici­pating college bookstore. 
Take advantage of this special, limited­time offer. Order your KODAK Poster 

~---­
1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I
:u 
Prints today! 
!jP.A, I want to order KODAK Poster Prints. For each poster send me one Champion coupon worth $2.50 off any item of Champion Authentic Sportswear priced at $10 or more at my participating college book store. 
Special Poster Print offer is good only through October 31, 
1987. 
NAME 
SCHOOL IMPORTANT: Take your original 35 mm color negative, slide or color print to your college store offering KODAK Processing. This request form must accompany your order In a KODAK Processing Envelope. 
Coupon requests without orders will not be honored. Sportswear must be purchased by November 30, 1987. (When a print Is submitted, a copy negative 



a~~~~ I~ 

L------------------------------~ 
"money will be allocated on a per-person basis.in order to bal­ance the funds of all groups." 
President Eileen Hetterich added, "We really want to make an effort to stay within our budget this year." 
In order to deal with the on­going problem of campus safety, the Board has arranged for self-defense classes to be held in each of the halls on campus, with the assistance of the TaeKwonDo Club of Notre Dame. Also, Richard Chlebek will address safety and secur­ity at the meeting next Tuesday evening. 
An increase in library hours was once again discussed. Julie Parrish has been named to head a student committee which will draw up a formal proposal and meet with the li­brary board. 
Students are requesting that that library open at 11 a.m. on Sunday mornings. 
(conoco) 

MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA WILL BE ON CAMPUS FOR A PRE-RECRUITING PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION. WE WILL DISCUSS OPPOR­
TUNITIES IN OUR MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM. ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS GRADUATING 
IN DECEMBER OR MAY ARE INVITED TO ATTEND: 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 10,1987 TIME: 7:00 -9:00 PM PLACE: ALUMNI ROOM-MORRIS INN 
a DuPont Company 


Ir----------------~
! CLUB 23 !I 
1 Formerly Giannetto's 1 
I I
1 Wednesday Special-1 1 50 cents OFF 14oz. drafts 1 
I Featuring our delicious Pizza, II Sandwiches, Dinners, I 1 Vegetarian Foods, and Baklava.• I Beer and Wine served. 1 
I I
234-3541 

I Spm-11 pm II Monday-Saturday II Dine In or Carry Out J :li' ..,~·· I 


I ~·b ~ I
I 744 N. Notre Dame .;~ etua 23 Large Groups & Clubs Welcome _j I






I----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1987
page 4 
Dense smoke hinders firefighters progress 
Associated Press 
Firefighters made slow but steady progress Tuesday against huge forest fires still burning out of control in the West, but a "gray murk" of smoke sickened some of them, kept trucks from hauling their gear and grounded aircraft. 
About 1,000 people were still unable to return to their homes in California because of fire danger. Army infantrymen traded rifles for hoes and shovels to mop up fires in Oregon. 
More than 1,000 square miles of brush and timber have burned in eight Western states since lightning began setting hundreds of fires on Aug. 28. 
"We've always been thankful we don't have hurricanes, tor­nadoes or stuff like that," said Jim Baxter, a timber sales ad­m1mstrator for national forests at Weaverville, Calif. "But now we got our own homegrown nat­ural disaster." 
More than 1,000 fires had burned over 519,000 acres in northern California, and nearly 111,000 acres were blackened in southern Oregon. 
Combined with 30,000 acres charred in Idaho, and smaller fires in Arizona, Montana, South Dakota, Washington and Wyoming, fires had blazed across 670,700 acres, or 1,048 square miles. 
In addition to the Western fires, 10,000 acres of grass and trees had burned on the island of Hawaii in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. Some firefighters from California were sent to help halt that fire. 
Sunbelt 
prepares for pope 
Assoc••••dP••ss 

The Sunbelt cities that will greet Pope John Paul II bustled with activity Tues­day, as Miami's archbishop blessed a rosary dangling from a skyscraper, workers spruced up the streets of Co­lumbia, S.C., and crews decorated a huge outdoor al­tar in San Antonio, Texas. 
Everywhere along the pontiff's route, plans were being completed for the tightest possible security. Police, National Guardsmen and Secret Service agents were arranging to divert rush-hour traffic, weld man­holes shut, station sharpshooters on roofs and even make airliners change course. 
"This will certainly be the biggest combined law en­forcment effort: in South Florida's history," said Jack Kippenberger, special agent in charge of Miami's Secret Service office. 
The pope arrives in Miami on Thursday afternoon for a 10-day tour of nine cities. From Miami, he flies to Co­lumbia, then New Orleans, San Antonio, Phoenix, Ariz., Los Angeles, Monterey, Calif., and San Francisco. His final U.S. stop is-in Detroit, but before heading back to Rome, he will visit Fort Simpson in Canada's Northwest Territories on Sept. 20. 
In Miami on Tuesday, Archbishop Edward A. McCarthy blessed the rosary draping The Falls, a downtown office building just north of the route the pope's bulletproof car will follow Thursday. 
Earlier in the day, Cuban exile activists delivered a parchment petition with replicas of 70,000 signatures to the archdiocese. Roberto Pimental of Cubanos Dester­rados (Cubans without a home) said the petition urges the pope to lash out at Cuban President Fidel Castro's persecution of the Roman Catholic Church. 
In Columbia, city workers have trimmed trees, .cut grass and repaved streets along the pope's motorcade route from the airport to the University of South Carolina football stadium. 

GENERAL MILLS, INC. 
Invites you to hear 
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM 
Steve Waller (Controller) 
with Dan Poorman Beth Schneider (Notre Dame '86) (Notre Dame '87) 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 7:00PM Upper Lounge, University Club 

Reception to Follow Presentation 
Junior and Senior Finance and Accounting Majors: Come meet and talk with recent alumni about career opportunities at General Mills. 

Wednesday, September 9, 1987 The Observer 


-. ' 



The Observe~lke Moran
Puttering away 
Two golfers relax and practice their skills on the months, but soon enough, typical South Bend putting green, behind Rockne Memorial Gym. Gol­weather will settle In and cover It with snow. fers can enJoy the use of the green for a few more 



The Observer 
would like to announce an 
By DEIDRE FINN 
News Staff 
Fourteen new faculty mem­bers join the staffs of thirteen different departments at St. Mary's College this semester. 
"The number (of new faculty members) was not unusually high," according to Charlotte West, a spokesperson from the office of the Dean of Faculty at St. Mary's. 
"About one-third of the new faculty is temporarily replac­ing permanent professors who are on sabatical or maternity leave. One-fourth of those hired fill empty positions in different departments," said West. She added, "The balance is just the normal amount of turnover, from teachers coming and going." 
The Department of Govern­ment has two new faculty members, Garry-Eoghin Jen­nings and Robert Ladrech. 
Jennings, an instructor, is a graduate of the University of Maryland, where he has taught for the past five years. 
page 5 


SMC gets faculty 
OPEN HOUSE 
today, September 9, at 7:30 p.m. at Haggar College Center for all Saint Mary's students interested in working for The Observer 

ALL ARE WELCOME 
----------------·-------------------~----------~~------~--~--------~------~ 


TERRIFIC VALUE 

join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge. 
MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion. 
"The prospect of teaching at 
a small college with a strong 
sense of commitment appealed 
to me," said Jennings. He 
added, "Teaching at St. Mary's 
also gives me the opportunity 
to work with colleages that I 
admire." 
Ladrech, an assistant profes­sor, is holding his first full-time professorship at Saint Mary's. He is a graduate of California State University in San Fran­cisco and the University of Cal­ifornia in Santa Barbara. 
Theodore Billy, assistant professor of English, hails from the University of Dela­ware, where he has taught for six years. He is a graduate of Kings College in Pennsylvania and acquired his M.A. and Ph.D. at the State University of New York in Birmingham. 
"I've heard many great things about St. Mary's Col­lege," said Billy. "The situa­tion is better than my expecta­tions." 
Jill Vihtelic, also an Assistant Professor, joins the Depart­ment of Business Administra­tion and Economics for her first professorial position. She is a graduate of Michigan State and said she was employed in trust banking for over eight years. 
Visiting assistant professor of Psychology from the U. of Arizona, Catherine Bailey, is a graduate of the University of Minnesota and the University of Arizona. 
Other additions to the faculty include Susan Bockman and Annette Peacock, assistant professors of Nursing, and Susan Bryant, assistant profes­sor of Education. 
Visiting faculty members in­clude Geraldine Amerikus, in­structor of Modern Languages, Renata Duda, assistant profes­sor of Communication-Theater, James Johnson, instructor of Humanistic Studies, Mark Mundt, instructor of Mathema­tics, Patricia Sayre, assistant professor of Philosophy, and William Tourtillotte, assistant professor of Art. 
WANTeD 
USC vs. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
21.3-422-2812 
f:ARLY AM OR fVENINOS 

AIM HIGH 

GET ON THE TRACK TOA SCHOLARSHIP 
An Air Force ROTC scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Find out if you qualify for tuition and other expenses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: 
A1r Force ROTC f'h 239·6634 


-------~--,--' _, ­
!:.pa::;gi!.::e::....6::_______________________T.:..:h.:.::e:_O=-=-:bs:.:e:_rv:....:e:_r_________________w_ednesday, September 9, 1987 
Gulf quiet, diplomats busy 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -War enemies Iran and Iraq ob­served an informal cease-fire in the Persian Gulf for a third day Tuesday after both sides attacked nearly two dozen ships in one of the fiercest weeks in the tanker war. 
Diplomats said the lull was directly tied to the peace initia­tive of U.N. Secretary-General
Javier Perez de Cuellar. They 
saidhemadeacessationofgulfhostilities a pre-condition for his mission that begins in Teh­ran on Thursday and will later take him to Baghdad. 
D dl V 
Associated Press 
MARACAY, Venezuela -Ci­vilian volunteers joined troops and civil defense units Tuesday in the search for survivors of a 10-foot-deep tide of mud that swept hundreds of cars off a mountain road. 
No official casualty figures have been released. Unofficial reports said there were 150 known dead in the mudslide and floods, 250 missing, 1,000 people injured and 20,000 home­less. 
The mudslide roared down the mountain Sunday after tor­rential rains, wiping out three miles of the road. 
Col. Hector Vargas, who was involved with the army rescue effort, pointed into the moun­tains in the direction of the road and said: "It is a very ugly dis­aster. There must be plenty of dead still up there." 
Army helicopters carried food and medical supplies to the stricken area. 
Families were caught re­turning home from outings when tons of mud, boulders and uprooted trees swept across the highway that runs through the mountains between Maracay and the beach resort of Ocumare de Ia Costa on Venezuela's central coast. 
Luis Mora, a survivor, said a crowded bus was swept over the edge as people tried to sqirm through its windows, and a woman he was trying to save was torn from his grasp. 
"I saw arms sticking out of the mud from some of the buried cars," he said. An esti­mated 200 cars and several buses were buried or trapped by the mudslide. 
Giuseppe Morelda said: "Trees started falling, and you could see the mud arriving. I saw dead people all over." 
Carlos Tablante, who is a member of the national congress and survived the slide, said long lines of vehicles had been created by the col­lapse of a bridge. 
During heavy rain at about 4 p.m., he said, the earth shook and "a slide of clay and rocks rushed down from the top of the 
Correction 
The time of the reception for Father Edward Malloy's in­auguration was incorrectly reported in Tuesday's paper. The reception will be held Sept. 23 at 5:30 p.m. on South Quad, according to the inauguration committee. 
The diplomats insisted on anonymity. 
A dispute between Iran and Kuwait escalated, meanwhile, with claims by Iran that offi­cials in Kuwait were harassing Iranian immigrants there and had ordered the expulsion of a sixth Iranian diplomat. 
In the gulf, shipping sources said there appeared to be more vessel movements than usual 
as companies took advantage
of the pause in the 3-year-old raids on commercial shipping. 
Iraq, at war with Iran since September 1980, strikes at ships carrying Iranian oil to hurt Iran economically and force it to the peace table. Iran strikes at other shipping, saying if the gulf is not safe for its vessels it will not be safe for anybody's ships. 
In Moscow, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and Premier Nikoai Ryzhkov urged an im­mediate end to the gulf war and criticized the U.S. presence there during meetings Tuesday 
with Iran's deputy foreign min­
ister, Mohammed Larijani, Tass said. 
ea y enezue an mu s I e, 00 s leave 150 dead, 20,000 homeless 
d l.d fl d
I 

mountain an<l crashed against 3,000 people were at the scene the cars in the highway." of the landslide. They esti-Another survivor said: "A 
mated that 1,000 were rescued.
tree flattened my car. My fam­Others reached high ground ily and I left quickly and found and were being rescued by ourselves with hundreds of helicopter.s, officials said. . 
people trying to escape the Torrential weekend rams highway. It was like a 
pus.hed sever~l rivers over
pilgrimage through hell." their banks m the central Many survivors said about Venezuelan state of Argaua. 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND PACKETS 
are now available in the Student Activitie_s Office for all organizations that were awarded stands. 
(List of organizations with concession stands is posted in the Main Loungein LaFortune.) 
DEADLINE FOR PICKING UP PACKETS IS 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
(If you d~ not pick up your packet, you forfeit your stand and it will be awarded to an alternate.) 

Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm 
Washington Hall 
Tickets on sale at the Washington 
Hall box office 91.4-91.6 12-6 pm 
$4.00 ND;SMC student ~~ <::;~"'~~ 
$8.00 public ~~ ~ ~ 
For information, :0.~~<\. ~·~.~:..~ ~~~<\. , call 239-7757 ~~~ 
~ 
~------------------------------------­

ISJ'/'h. Granger Shell1~ SA 23 & Fir Rd. Presents its I New 24 inch Giant Deli Sandwich I THE GAME BREAKERIISJ'!'A $9.99 with coupon ~ ·~ It could bring out the 6'5" ~ 
~--------~~~~~-~eE~Et~1~-~~~~~~--------~ 
,-.----------------,
I
I MORRISSEY LOAN FUND I I I
1

1 Now open 11:30 to 12:30 1 Monday thru Friday I
I in basement of LaFortune I
1

1
I Loans of up to $200 I
I

I &or a II N.D. Students I
1 1 1 
I

I 1Oj0 interest 1
L 
---------------.I
-

MARKETING CLUB 
anyone interested in joining should attend the first meeting: 
WEDNESDAY, 9 SEPTEMBER 
Annapolis Room LaFortune 
6:30PM 

all classes and rrtqjors welcome 
Only $5. 00 for membership 

LA FORTUNE OPEN HOUSE 
is coming... Monday, September 14 
Food entertainment 
•

prizes Scavenger Hunt Illusionist Act Play:"Barefoot inthePark" and many more activities all day COME EXPLORE LAFORTUNE 


Wednesday, September 9, 1987 The Observer page 7 

BCAC, SUB, Fisher Hall, ~ 
• 
: roR? ~ RBfRioeRA 



J'{f:BD ~ormitory Refrigerators $35.00 per school year 
Call Bums Rent-all Inc. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. hrs 7-5 p.m. phone£: 259-2833 
Student Government present: 

PIECES/ 
-------"• • • 0 F A" • "" ------­

/DREAM~ 
• +Saturday, September 12 
• 
9:00pm • Stepan Center 

•
Tickets: $3.00 Advance~ available in Dining Halls & The Cellar or call BCAC at 239-6841 


$4.00 at the door $5.00 non-students +AFTER-SET DA CE 11:00pm-2:00am 

North had recruited for the ef­fort. 

0 
Gregg and Watson said Rodriguez was worried that the group, led by retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, might be "making immoral 
RETREAT "Sexuality, Intimacy & Spirituality" directed by Patricia livi!lgston 
IDPICS: 
Intimacy Ho:nosexuahty S..xu..Jity Primary 
Relationships Hetuosexu.,lity Genilal 
Mas1urba1ion Lone lines. Affec1ive 
• 
How do I rela1e lo God in lhe contcxl 31 lhe gm ol my sexuality? 

• 
How does inttm~q in my :ife reveai God to me? 

• 
How do th• >..arning> of my life tell me about God's love for me? 

• 
How can I corn< to und"'s1and my sexu•'";· ;11ore broadly and aeeply? 

• 
How does understanding my sexualily free mP to choose wi;alls mosl life giving at this time In my life? 


WHEN: September 25 (6:30) · September 27 (noon) 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
the U.S. government should not 

(Badin Hall) 239·5242 
get involved with them." 

SIGN-UP DEADLINE: 
September 18, 1987 
Nonetheless, Gregg said he $12.00 was stunned last December aliCE a (MifLJS ~NISTRY when Rodriguez told him that he had been under North's or-
Bush 
continued from page 1 said he cannot recall doing that. It was not known whether Bush ever saw the document. Congressional investigators have not questioned him. Watson said he was "almost positive" the subject of the Contras never came up at the May 1 session with Bush. Gregg said there was no intention to discuss that issue nor was it raised. Watson said that when the in­vestigation began to focus on the memo, Gregg asked him where the words "resupply of the Contras" had come from. "I said, 'beats me,' or words to that effect,'' Gregg testified. But the resupply operation was raised at a later meeting on Aug. 8, 1986, as Rodriguez complained about the people 
profits" from dealings with the Contras. 
Watson said he came away from the meeting with the im­pression that North was "chairman of the board" of the resupply operation and Secord the "chief operating officer." 
Rodriguez told the vice pres­ident's men he was concerned that several of those involved had ties to Edwin Wilson, an­other former CIA agent, who had been jailed for selling ex­plosives to Libya. 
He said Rodriguez men­tioned Secord and former CIA official Thomas Clines and said, "These people are run­ning such a corrupt, shoddy, unsafe operation down there, 


Security Beat 
Thursday, September 3 
11 :45a.m. The Student Activi­ties Office at LaFortune reported the theft of a plant, planter, and light fixture from the first floor of LaFortune. 
12:05p.m. A Carroll Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at Carroll Hall. Loss is set at $50. 
12: 15p.m. A resident of Pasquerilla East reported her bike stolen from the east side of her dorm. The bike was valued at $300. 
2: lOp.m. Approximately $800 damage was done to a car belong­ing to the Priests of the Holy Cross. The car was parked at the north end of the stadium when the damage was done. The acci­dent is being investigated as hit and run. 
2:50p.m. A Pasquerilla East resident reported that she had received an obscene phone call. 
Friday, September 4 
9:26a.m. Two residents of Pangborn Hall reported that during the night 4 male subjects entered their room and hit them with a wiffle ball bat. The inci­dent is under investigation. 
s·•op.m. A resident of Pr .1gborn Hall reported the theft 
r. his wallet from his unlocked room. Loss is set at $140. 
Saturday, September 5 
6:12a.m. While on patrol, aND Security Officer found a vehicle in Green Field that had been van­dalized. The vent window had been broken out. Nothing was taken from the car. Damage is set at $70. 
10:20a.m. While on patrol, Se­curity Officers found that some­one had put soap in the War Memorial Fountain along with several chairs from the quad. No damage was done. 
!2:40a.m. A Flanner Hall resi­dent reported that his wallet and Rolex watch was taken from his room. Loss is estimated at $3020. 
Sunday, September 6 
2:30a.m. A resident of Zahm Hall reported the theft of a "Bud Light" neon sign from his room. The light was valued at $150. 
4:52a.m. A 1985 ND graduate was injured in a fall near Haggar Hall. The man fell while trying to climb a fence in the area. The victim received a severe lacera­tion to his arm as a result. 
12:30p.m. A resident of Flan­ner Hall reported the theft of his wallet from his room. Loss is set at $60. 
Monday, September 7 

7:35a.m. An exhibitor at the 
Antique Show held in the Joyce 
ACC reported the theft of an 
ivory carving valued at $485. 

11 :45a.m. A juvenile from South Bend was found in the lobby of Fitzpatrick Hall carry­ing a set of bolt cutters. The cut­ters were confiscated and the boy was transported home to his par­ents. 
1 :05p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall reported the theft of his bike from the rack near Carroll. The bike was valued at $175. 
5:52p.m. The Security and Fire Departments received a fire alarm at Stepan Chemistry Hall. The alarm was triggered due to a strong smell of natural gas. Upon investigation, it was found that the smell was from a chemi­cal called mercaptin which is added to natural gas so it can be detected. No danger existed and students were allowed back into the building. 
Tuesday, September 8 

8:50a.m. A Howard Hall resi­dent reported that she has been receiving harrassing phone calls over the past few days. The mat­ter is being further investigated. 
6:47p.m. A resident of Carroll Hall reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack near his dorm. The bike was valued at $100. 

Tunnel vision 
The scaffolding clinging to Sacred Heart gives the entrance a novel apperance. Although the renovations may detract from the church for now, It will keep Sacred Heart looking good for years to come. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, September 9, 1987 
Police raids bind the Constitution 
For about the last eight months, the South Bend Police in connection with the Indiana State Police and Indiana Excise Police have been participating in the annoying practice of raiding off­campus parties. These raids are con­ducted under the premise that minors are illegally consuming alcohol and thus threatening public safety. It is true that there were two fatal traffic acci­dents last fall involving both Notre Dame students and alcohol, but is this grounds to infringe upon the constitu­tional rights of all Notre Dame stu­dents? 
Ray Markovich 
guest column 
On Oct. 31, 1986 at approximately 11 p.m., a party at 617 North St. Peter Street in South Bend, Indiana was raided by the South Bend Police, In­diana State Police, and Indiana State Excise Police. It was a Halloween cos­tume party with about 100 guests. A resident of the house was collecting two dollars at the door to help finance the cost of the party. At about 10:30 p.m., an undercover Excise Officer entered the party dressed as a student and was promptly charged two dollars for a cup. He was uninvited and only allowed to enter the house because the resident who had been collecting money had gone to the washroom. A friend had taken over the task and sold the cop a cup. 
At about 11 p.m., eight squad cars and a paddywagon pulled up in front of the house and sealed off all exit routes. They then called a resident of the house to the door and told him that everyone would have to leave and that they would be checking ID's at the door. Many stu­dents jumped out of windows or ran out the back door to avoid the police check point. I, being a resident, stayed in the house figuring that there was no way that I'd be issued a ticket in my own home. I was wrong. Whatever hap­pened to the old adage "A man's home is his castle?" The cops made me come out of the house, asked me my age, and finding that I was only 20 years old, they told me to take a breathalyzer. I refused the test and told them that I would take the ticket and see them in court. 
Research was done and the following was found regarding my position: Amendment IV (1791) -The right of 
Doonesbury 
HOtii?AY? 
the people to be secure in their persons, houses and effects, against unreasona­ble searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. 
Amendment V (1791) -No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when in actual service in time of War or -ublic danger; nor shall any person be _.tbject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation. 
Amendment VI (1791) -In all cri­minal prosec4tions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be con­fronted with the witnesses against him ; to have compulsory process for obtain­ing witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence. 
Amendment X (1791) -The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. 
I went to court at eight on a Monday morning. There were many cases that day so I had to check in and wait my turn. In front of me were cases dealing with drunk driving and speeding. My particular case seemed rather insig­nificant in light of these other crimes. I was fairly well-prepared to face the judge and waited anxiously. Realizing my Fifth Amendment right allowing me to avoid self-incrimination through personal testimony, I was prepared to decline taking the witness stand. As I saw it, the police officer did not see me drinking and I had not failed a breat­halyzer test so there was no concrete evidence to prove my guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. With only the arrest­ing officer as a witness, I believed that my crime lacked sufficient evidence for conviction. I am not saying that I was innocent because I was in fact drinking, but only that the state could not prove my guilt. A plea of not guilty does not mean that you are innocent. It means that you do not believe that the state can prove your guilt. My turn to appear before the judge finally came. I ap­proached the bench and was asked to verify my age, name, and address. I handed the judge my sheet explaining by rights and signed to acknowledge my plea of not guilty. He then asked me if I understood the English language and if I understood that I had pleaded not guilty. I said yes and was given a trial date in late March. 
I arrived at court on March 30, 1987 at 10 a.m. Once again, I checked in and took a seat. I heard a few cases before me and waited anxiously for my turn. I didn't see the arresting officer in the crowd. The Sixth Amendment guaran­tees one the right to be confronted by witnesses against him. So if the police officer does not appear in court, the prosecution will be compelled to drop the case. I was called to the bench and told that because the officer did not ap­pear, the prosecution would drop the charges against me. I had won. I had saved myself a $50 fine and approxi­mately $20 in court costs. 
The primary question in this case is the availability of concrete evidence. Without this, no man may be convicted. 
Since most off-campus parties are raided in this manner, it seems that definite evidence is usually lacking. This would lead one to conclude that :many students currently being con­victed of underage drinking could avoid conviction by pursuing a formal trial. If many students pleaded not guilty, the courts would become overloaded and judicial pressure probably would 
reduce police raids.  From  this,  one  
should  reason  that  all  students  not  
caught red-handed should  plead  not  

guilty. Who knows, maybe their cop won't show either. 
The overall question is whether or not these raids are constitutional. It places the Fourth and lOth Amendments in conflict. The Fourth Amendment protects one against unreasonable searches. The lOth Amendment gives States the right to control that which is 
not monitored by the federal govern­ment. Which is more important, privacy or public safety? That question probably depends upon which side of the fence you are on. Those not having the parties would shy toward the public safety. Those having the parties would favor privacy. From this, I conclude that the whole concept of police raids is a touchy subject that a higher court must address. 
Ray Markovich is a senior in the Col­lege of Business Administration. 

P.O. Box Q 
Homogeneity need not be a liability 
Dear Editor: 
In his September 3 Viewpoint article, Paul Newett condemns the homogeneity of the Notre Dame campus. I agree 100 percent that one can learn a great deal from a fellow student who is coming from a different background. However, homogeneity is not necessarily bad in all respects. If all Notre Dame students held the selfish attitudes which Mr. Newett contends we do, this would be a sorry place indeed, but in fact the similarities which this student body does possess gives Notre Dame a strength of char­acter unparallelled at any place I know. 
Newett's final point is a quote from Pascal: "It is a monstrous thing to see 
Trudeau 
one and the same heart at once so sensi­tive to minor things and so strangely insensitive to the greatest." Students here do tackle the "greatest" issues, and Notre Dame has and will continue to produce truly great men and women. But for most of us, the final analysis and true worth of our education is not in trying to make a living, but in trying to make our own lives worth living. We do not have to save the world. That was done 2000 years ago. It is the "minor" things like helping a classmate, serving food in a soup kitchen and raising a good family which truly matter. If there is homogeneity at Notre Dame, it is the common bond of service to one another and to the world in which we live. This is a homogeneity of which I am immensely proud. 
David Kinkopf Morrissey Hall 

60VEI?NOR., 51JI?£/..Y YOU NOTATAIL THAT /..055 
UH... I tt/EU, I CAN{
KNOll/ THE HARO Ql/E5-IAIIUBeOFFS&T BY 
H51"mT!3 ~VEAL THE PETAIL-5,
T/ON EveNBEFORE I Gfii)(JPS 11/HO MAYHAVE 
70A5K... BUTIU/3'!!.& VeRY
ASK IT. IUITH NEARlY CONVCNTIONS HER& 8E­
Q..05E 70 SIGNING
$23MIUION IN CAN­CALISe THEYAIJM/Re 
I A MAJOR M(JT()R-
CEJ..J.e/? CONVeNTION MY5TANI?! I 
CYa£ GANG.'-.......___ 
--.,r-~.,__

BUSIN£35S, HAveN'T YOU {AfJ5El) ARIZONA GI?£ATHARM 8YR£­
SCINOING THE KING 
Quote of the Day 
"For all sad words of tounge or pen, the saddest are these: It might have been." 
John Whittier (1807-1892) 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker  Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski  Advertising Design Manager .............. Dave Culligan  
News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski  Advertising MEAnager ................... Melinda Chapleau  
News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley  Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University  Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy  Projects Manager .......................... Mark Mclaughlin  
of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies  Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan  Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton  
of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively  Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton  Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele  
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Saint Mary's Editor .......................... Marilyn Benchik  Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column  Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying  
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Founded November 3, 1966  

Accent
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 
A new fight song? 

THERESA LOOMIS accent writer 
P
aula and Peter Abowd, a sophomore and a senior respectively, came up with a creative way In which to celebrate this year's IOOth an­niversary of Notre Dame foot­ball. By the time this article comes to print, the tribute song they recorded, "I 00 Years," should be available in the bookstore. 
They were not alone in their endeavor; their father, an uncle, and eight brothers and sisters all have graduated from Notre Dame. During the past summer both Paula and Peter, Michigan natives, were working for their brother Anthony at his company, A+ Music, in North Carolina. Peter has been a foot­bail trainer for four years and had been thinking of writing a song ever since Lou Holtz be­came coach. Near the end of July his idea took shape, and Anthony produced the song. Recording was done in Gas­tonia, North Carolina where David, another brother, has a studio at his store, Music City. The Abowds then took the tape to Reflections In Charlotte, North Carolina to mix the tracks and create a master tape. 
Sine~ the Abowds wanted the records available for the first football game, they had to have It produced and pressed within one month. Instead of sending the record to an outlet which would complete the process but take a long time, they personally went to each place to have their record mas­tered, laquered, and test pressed. By watching each step themselves, the Abowds sped up the process significantly. 
Peter, who has been writing songs for seven years and has performed on campus during the last three years, is major­ing in electrical engineering with a computer option. He has also been conducting research on technical applications In­volving sending messages from a computer to a synthesizer and has definitely put his back­ground to use on this project. 
Peter explained that the in­strumentation was produced with computer driven samplers and synthesizers in col1]unctlon with live guitar. He describes the song as "a contemporary pop tune aimed at catching the flavor of modern music," something a bit newer to com-
Calvin and Hobbes 
plement the more traditional and established school marches. "It's a pseudo fight song --catchy enough for people to hum and sing." 
Paula, whose title was pro­duction assistant, also got a good deal of experience for her math, computing, and commu­nications interests. She worked with the public relations aspect as well and did a lot of phone calling. She says, "The network affiliates have copies and are very much interested." 
Paula regards her brother, who has already copyrighted an album's worth of material, as an accomplished musician. "''m probably his biggest fan," she admits. Sophomores Kristie Bunty and Sue Hatch agree. "Peter is a very talented songwriter, and his record cap­tures the spirit of this year's football season." 
Looking toward the future, Paula says, "I wouldn't hesitate to record another record. It would probably be a lot easier. We had many late nights and can sing It in our sleep. The experience was a nice opportu­nity, since ND has been a big part of our lives." 
The rest of the Abowd family, stretching from coast to coast, is continuing their involvement by promoting the record which the Alumni Association has en­dorsed as a scholarship fund­raiser. The profit the clubs make from sales will be put into their respective scholar­ship funds. 
On campus, St. Ed's and Walsh Halls will be selling the record with help from student government. Profits will be used by those dorms for their own interests and also to pro­vide campus activities that will boost spirit and enthusiasm. As Paula points out, "Not everyone gets to go to Notre Dame when it's the team's I OOth anniver­sary." Other dorms that are Interested in selling the records as fund-raisers are encouraged to become Involved too. 
As of now, pressing of the blue vinyl "45" with Its gold label has not stopped. Al­though the song might not en­dure as long as some of the more traditional ones, Peter hopes it will "hit strong and carry through this season. Our honest Intention Is to generate school spirit." Adds Paula, "I hope that students will support this since it's for them. The song pays tribute to Notre Dame and its glory. We're part of that glory." 
'too 
Years' 

From the parking lot, to the 
stadium 
From the ACC to Sacred Heart, 
We come in trailers, bringing 
all we got 
Praying to Mary, for one last 
shot. 
For victory and dignity, 
For a couple ofgames, like 73. 
When our teams were tough 
and the turf was hot 
But our guys still gave all they 
got. 
CHORUS 
Shaking down the thunder, waking up the echoes, Tearing up the turf, for one hundred years. Marching loyal sons, beating all the odds, Ooing a hu~red yards, tor one hundred years. 
As the underdogs, we play our· best. And despite reviews, we'll beat the rest. When other teams put us to the test • There's never a doubt, they'll get upset. ·cause when golden helmets hit the football field, We'll come from behind, like In '29. A hundred years of football glory .(Vtd each new .game is a dif­ferent story. 
CHORUS 
Many legends have run down Rockne's field. Uke the Horsemen, Mules, all loyal sons. 
Like Leahy did, and Ara did, 
And other men: like Moose and Dan. . .·;p For'bne hundred years we've heard the band. And through ltalt th~.~tudents
stand. ······· 
Yes, there's nothing like a foot­ball game 
Played for the glory of Notre Dame. 
CHORUS 
(C) 1987 by A.+ "fuslc. All rights resewed. 
Bill Watterson 
page 9 

Road trippin' 
MATT SITZER AND KIM YURATOVAC assistant accent editors 
I 
t was weird. Kind of like that dt<}a uu feeling that always accompanies something this strange. We had dreamed the same dream -the ultimate roadtrip -and it began something like this . .. 
Our voyage has lasted almost four hours. We have plodded over the cruel Michigan landscape at a speed well above the current limit. Matt's Ford Tempo, the lead vessel, cuts a swath through the wind as Kim controls operations at the helm of her Buick Electra strategically placed at the rear of the convoy. 
Our destination is the strange and distant city of Ann Arbor, in the country Inhabited by the Michigan Wolverines. 
Sitzer and Yuratovac 




Domed 

Echos of Marvin Gaye's "I Heard It Through the Grapevine" rise over the Ann Arbor city limits as we pull into Wolverine country. Waitt There's Meg Tilly and William Hurt prancing joyfully through the streets, as Glenn Close and Jeff Goldblum sing the Michigan flght song to the tune of the Irish Victory March. We are chilled in a big way. 
As we Notre Dame pilgrims disembark from our roadtrlpping vehicles, hoardes of admiring Michigan students meet us with looks of wonder and strange anxiety on their cherubic, native faces. We have reached the shores of the new land, and we are all pretty darned excited about it. 
As Matt and his compatriots gaze out Into the sea of Michigan faces, they are thrilled to see thousands, no, millions of female faces clearly enthralled with these strange vlstors. Kim and her fellow explorers, however, seem to take lmmecUate notice of the huge contingent of Michigan men, eager for Just one conversation with an intelligent woman. 
We are whisked off to meet their leader, some guy named Bo Schmedbukeler, who immediatedly bestows upon us the key to their city. With this golden key, we unlock the doors of all the Ann Arbor taverns --and, hey,1 everyone is Invited. 
We are busy converting the natives and having a great time when who should show up but the Ann Arbor pollcel We Darners freeze instantly. In response to this apparent catastrophe, the Michiganites give us a bewildered look as they open a cage in the rear, releasing a pack of ferocious dogs. The pollee run in terror as the hungry beasts chase them down the street. "No problem," say the natives. 
After that bit of excitement we are all a little more confldent and ready for a change of pace. Therefore, we readily accept the Invitation to attend a type of ceremonial gathering to be held In our honor at the dwelling of one of the more "elite" of the Michigan social classes --the infamous Fraternity tribe ritual. 
We enter the house amid resounding chants of "Damn glad ta meet ya"s, and are Introduced to a strange greenish-red concoction poured liberally from a steaming cast-Iron cauldron. The women in our group are a bit apprehensive about tasting this strange brew but the guys dive right in. 
After what seems like only minutes, there is turmoil at the front of the house. It's the cops again, and It looks like another raid. No trouble, they finally explain. It seems that we have not met the minimum decibel requirements and they ask if we would please try to make some more noise. They laugh off the earlier dog-Incident saying they were just kidding around anyway. 
It Is late, now. We realize that, In our ardor to reach Ann Arbor, we had neglected to make the proper sleeping arrangements. Matt expresses the group's collective concern. Pandemonium erupts. "I get the one with the glasses!" pleads a frothy-mouthed co-ed. "I get the tall one with the Cardinals hatl" screams another riotous student. It is bedlam. There is pushing and shoving and screaming and .... At that point, Kim brought the rabid crowd to a hush with a reminder about duLac(do what?) 
By some strange coincidence we both awoke from the dream at exactly the same point There are a lot of questions left un­answered. One of which Is, who won the game? We don't really know how the dream ended, but Matt's asleep right now trying to find out. 

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1987 
Sports Briefs 
New Writers interested in sports writing and who attended last week's open house are asked to attend a brief meeting tonight at 7:30 at The Ob­server office. Contact Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303 for further information -The Observer 
The ND track team will hold a meeting for for all prospective track and field athletes, both indoor and outdoor, today at 4:30p.m. in the ACC's football auditorium. -The Observer 
Co-ed flag football teams should form now. Entries are available at Angela Athletic Facility for teams made up of a Saint Mary's dorm and a Notre Dame dorm. The entry fee is $20 per team. Forms are to be completed and returned by Sep­tember 14. -The Observer 
TheBoxingClubwillbeginitsnoviceprogram today at 4 p.m. in Gym 4 (above the boxing room) of the ACC. All new and old members are welcome. For r;nore information call Kevin at 283-1419. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team will hold an informational meeting today at 4: 30 at Angela for all those interested in trying out for the team. -The Observer 
Student Managers are being sought. Any freshman interested should report to an organiza­tional meeting today at 8 p.m. at the ACC Auditorium. Enter through Gate 2. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 12 

n.~Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, eccepts classified adwlrtlslng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtct.y. n. ~Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, accepts clasalfteds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday 
Classifieds through FridaY. Deadline for next• classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must 
-
be prapUJ, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per live ~perday. 
NOTICES 
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237-1949; H: 2n-8t3t. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 2n-t051 DAY; 2n-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
tal chi exercise call 289-9423 

MY CHICK is In Pittsburgh and needs.a ~de too her alma mater (NO) for the ND Mlch ST. game the weekend of the 19th. If you know of anyone coming out for the game who could give her a ride from the Pit­tsburgh area, call Kevin at 239-5303 any time of the day or night. 
...................................-;..........................,... 
Attention Sophomore8--­BigBrotherSI81gSisters Orlentallon Mealing al lhe CSC Coffee Room TONITE Sept 9 at 7 PM Last Chance to sign up 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: If anyone finds a pink General Electric getto blaster left at the LeMans bus stop, please contact Katherine at 284-4134. 
LOST: CLEAR PLASTIC LITE BEER KEY CHAIN WITH 3 KEYS. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL JIM AT 1029. REWARDIII 
HELPIII IF YOU FOUND A BLUE JEAN JACKET CALL TIM AT 1204. Bl:l REWARDIII $$$$$ 
FOUND: Calculator In O'Shag Computer Room last Thursday night. To claim, call Mark x2385. 
LOST LOST LOST PAIR OF GLASSES WITH THIN BLACK FRAMES IN A SNAKESKIN CASE. LOST THURSDAY IN OR NEAR FITZPATRICK HALL. PLEASE CALL £4510 IF FOUND. 
LOST 3 keya on a wooden Notre Dame kay ring. Rm. 241: call 1138 
Hey My glasses with thin black frames are lost. You can help me keep up my grade point in EE ,: you get them back to me soon I They are $~111n a snakeskin case and both have be.;: " 'sslng since Thursday. Please help me out. £4510. Thanks a bunch. 
FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD 288-0955-255-3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR ND 
FAIR PRICES 2n-3097 683-8889 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR ND. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 
3-BEDROOM APARTMENT FULLY FURNISHED BEAUTIFUL OLD HOME 10 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS CALL 233 6298 
BEING EVICTED! Must rent out 2 bedroom apt. within walking distance of campus. 271-0513 
HOUSE OF SHAME legendary loft call Niels 1956 
WANTED 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS FULL TIME, PART TIME WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 2n-5666. APPLY IN PERSONI 
Part-time help wanted. Apply In person at Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. Open: 10:00-5:30 pm . 7 days a week. 
NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK­ETS. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MIKE X4340 
Wanted : small couch or love seat. Call Drew 283-3666. 
HIRING FULL AND PART TIME PHONE INTERVIEWERS FOR MARKET RE­SEARCH FIRM, SHOULD ENJOY TALKING WITH PEOPLE, TYPE 25 W­P~. AND AVAILABlE FOR WEEKEND SHIFTS. FOR APPT., CALL 282-2754. 
............................... ....................... 
SHARP, ARTICULATE graduate student to assist Niles manu­facturing company as bartender and chauffeur for NO home football games. Must be personable and able to Interact with top executives. Please call883-81 00 EXT4737 for Interview. 
NEED ROOMMATES TO SHARE A NICE 3 BDRM HOUSE. $67 MO. PLUS UTILITIES. CLOSE TO SCHOOL (1 MI.) CALL DAN 287-4925 AFTER 7 PM. 

AUDITORS NEEDED DAYS. WRITE YOUR OWN SCHEDULE. CALL 272­0408 BETWEEN 10 AM & 4 PM WEEK­DAYS. 
I NEED BC TIX. ALOT. THEY'VE ALREADY BOUGHT' PLANE TIX. Please caii.Jim at 271-0763. 
FOR SALE 

1 978 Honda Wagon many new parts $650 or best call 288-6240 after 6 
1978 VW SCIROCCO JERRY 239-5802 
IBM PC?<T with 10 MEG hard disk, color monitor, Quadboard Including builtin clook and DOS. Call Kelly at 239-5936 or 233-5284. 
Three-piece massive wood bedroom set. Queen size bed, tall dresser, vanity with large mirror. 1930's. $250. Call Kelly at 239-5937 or 233-5284. 
TICKETS 

I need Navy and Boston College G.A.'s Call Chris at $2264 or $2284 
PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 
Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0765. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH, MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I NEED USC GA's havt all others & $$ to trade, David xt 712 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX-AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574. 
NEED 1 MICH STATE GA call MB 233­5732 
NEED 2 BC GA or stupent call MB 233­5732 
Need 2 MSU Student Tickets. Also Need GA's And Studenl Tickets For USC. Will Pay $$$$. Call Bill £2003. 
I'm not Catholic (gasp), and my parents are divorced (gasp). Can you help me out with one Navy GA?? CaiiTim at 1223. Thanks. 
NEED 2 TIX TO ANY NO HOME GAMES. CALL 272-3491. GA'S 
I need 2 GA tlx for the USC and Alabama gamesl Call Boo Boo, £3884 

HELPII need MICHIGAN GA's. Call Jane at 2179 or 3704. 
$$$NAVY TIX $$$Need 5 Navy tlx Call Karen 271-0585 
Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998. 
I need 2 Mich. St. G.A.s Please call David at4235 
HELPII Need 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs . Have 2 USC tlx to trade. Call Kate 277­2944. 
SAVE ME II 1 BROTHER PLUS NO MICH STATE TIX EQUALS 1 DEAD SISDIANE 2627 
BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES I CALL 4579 
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE 

I have to convert a Wisconsin fanll To do this I need 1 stud. or GA USC ticket. Call Kristen 1 367. 
WANTED: GA'S FOR ANY ND HOME GAME WILLING TO PAY GOOD PRICE CALL MATT AT 1404 
Need Mlch State tix II Call Drew 283­3666. 
HELPI I NEED: 1 USC TICKET & 2-4 TIX FOR ANY GAMEl HEATHER, 4349 
WANT USC-NO FOOTBALL TfX. 213­422·2812 EARLY AM OR EVENINGS. 
NEED MICHIGAN TIX;CALL 271-9339 AFTER 8PM 
NEED TWO MSU GA'S CALL JER­RY/1450 
HELP I f need 2 GA'a lor USC, call Dan at 1450. Pleeae. 
ALABAMA TICKETSII I NEED 4 OF THEMII CALL SEAN £2836 
NEED 4 USC GA'S FOR FAMILY WHO HAS NEVER SEEN A NO HOME GAMEl CALL 234-8047 ASK FOR MIKE 
I NEED TICKETSIII I need two GA's for Boston College and two student tickets for Navy. Call Bill at 4653. 
I NEED 6 BC GA'S. Please call Shannon 2519 
BRUTUS' CLAN IS COMING and they need four Michigan State tick­ets. Call Brutus NOW at283-1483. Urgh! Go lrlshl 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH STI PLEASE CALL NED AT 3515 
Rich Uncle will pay top dollar for four Navy GA's between the thirty yard lines. Call Clare 284·4104 or 312-750·4981. 
Heve 50yd U of M Tlx. Trede lor Mlch St TIJiobeat offer. Mike X3775 
WANTED: 4 TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL EVENINGS AFTER 5:00. COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED. ELKHART 264· 1761. 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR USC GAME 
OCT 241 FAMILY COMING FORB-DAY 
CALL MIKE X3138 
WE ALL WANT TICKETS BUT I NEED THEM FOR MICHIGAN, MICHIGAN STATE AND BOSTON COL­LEGE YOUR REWARD WILL BE SOME SERIOUS CASH CALL STEVE AT 232­9816 
THE POPE AND MOTHER THERESA­ARE COMING FOR USC. NAME YOUR PRICE. CALL 2338. 
NEED MSU TICKETS GA or STU call carolyn x3872 
I need msu tickets desperately call joe at 1795 

RELATIVES COMMING LONG Dis­TANCE! WANT TO SEE "NO" WIPE OUT "BAMA"I WILL PAY CASH$$$ TODAYII NOWII CALL 1883, ASK FOR TOM. 
PARENTS HAVE NEVER EXPERI­ENCED ND FOOTBALL GAME. I NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL JIM AT 3366. 
......................... 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL JENNY 284-4154 
'.'NEED 2 ALABAMA TICKETS" CALL KAREN 271-0927 
NEED 4 STUD OR GA'S FOR MICH ST CALL 4228 OR 3607 
need 1 stud. or GA tic for MSU call 2915 
MY GIRLFRIEND 
IS VISITING NOTRE DAME 
all the way from 
LUBBOCK, TEXAS 
I need to get her a student ticket for the 
MICHIGAN STATE game. Help me out! 
Call Tim at 4672. 
BC TICKETSIII IF YOU HAVE 'EM, I WANT 'EM I GIVE ME ANY BC TICKETS YOU HAVE PLEASE CALL 283-1 151 
Need MSU GAs.l've got Navy GAs to trade for the MSU's that I need If Inter­ested, call Kevin. 1496 
Please help mel I need 4 Boston College GA'SII Do you hear? BC GA'S... WILL PAY DOLLAR SIGNSIII! (call Frank 3104) 
NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE CALL JOHN AT 271-0464 
I DESPERATELY NEED ONE TICKET FOF THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME 
G.A. OR STUDENT. CALL CHRISTINA AT £2762. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 G.A. TICK­ETS TO THE NAW GAME. PAY GOOD!!/ PLEASE CALL ANN AT £2815. 
Need MSU tlx & GA's. BIG $$ Call Mike s. £3573 
MOM and DAD traveling 2,000 miles for USC game. NEED GA'SIII PLEASE HELPII CALL TRACY 4094 
NEED U OF M TIX. CALL 4100. 
MY BROTHER WILL GIVE BEAUTIFUL EX-WIFE AND $$$ FOR 1 MICH. ST. GA. x2101 NICK 
I NEED 3 GA's FOR BC or NAVY CALL TIM at 1205 
For Sale: One U of M ticket (NO sec­tion) Sold on Thurs. by 1 pm call Kevin £1709 
HOMESICK FROSH NEEDS ALABAMA TICKETS TO SEE BROTHER-Dan 3253 
I need your NAVY tlcketl Call Chuck at 2443. 
.......................... MICHIGAN STATE TIX NEEDED. Mom and Dad(alums) coming to see game. Willing to pay big bucks to see ND crush MSU. Call John at 3451. 
How aboul this deal? I have one student ticket for any Notre Dame home game in exchange for one U of M ticket for Saturday. Call J.C. at 1209. 
Will trade 2 MSU, BAMA or NAVY GAs for 2 BC GAs. 239-6546 before 5 
WILL TRADE 2 GA USC TIX FOR 2 GA BAMA. TIX NOT FOR SALE. (201) 321· 8269 9-5 EST. 
URGENTLY NEED FOUR TIX FOR MIC­HIGAN STATE ON SEPT. 19 AND FOUR TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME ON NOV. 
14. ALUMNI GRANDFATHER WANTS THREE GRANDSONS TO SEE VIC­TORIES. CALL COLLECT JACK HOWE, 312-696-0810 EVENINGS ONLY. 
NEED MICH.STATE TX'S-GA'S & STUD.£4272 
DESPERATE FOR 2 MSU STUD TIX. KEVIN 271-0579. 
MSU Need two Michigan State GAs. Call Max at 283-1542 or 283-1543. Go forth and Go lrlshl 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE MIC­HIGAN STATE GAME. CALL HERNAN 271-0457 
HELPI NEED 2 BC OR 'BAMA GA'S DESPERATELY! CHRIS AT 1065 
MICH. TICKET FOR SALE BEST OFFER BY BPM THURS CALL 2445 
I NEED AT LEAST 2 GA'S FOR THE NAVY GAME. CALL GWEN 284-5437 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UPI 
FOR THE BEST IN MUSICAL ENTER­TAINMENT CALL 
ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED 
THE PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY SERVICE ASK FOR BRIAN 2743 OR 271.()754 
Save cash and purchase your textbooks; three to five day service for textbook or­ders. Also, you can sell your textbooks for cash at Pandora's Bookstore. We're located on 808 Howard St., open 10:00 
5:30 pm, 7 days a week. 
Michigan State tlcketa I need to get ahold of six student or GA tickets. Call Mike at 271-0765. 
DESPERATEIII 
need MSU TICKETI STUDENT or GAl call christy x3690 
MIGHIGAN ST. TIXII IF YOU HAVE THEM, I NEED THEM. PLEASE Ill CALL MONICA AT 4238. 
A FEW PLACES STILL AVAILABLE IN KAPLAN 10·17 LSAT COURSE, 2ND SECTION. CALL 272-4135 TODAYI 
Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame I St. Mary's Collage (GLNO.SMC) Invites In­terested members of the community to contact our organization for further Infor­mation at P.O. Box 194; Notre Dame, IN 46556. Confidentiality guaranteed. 
SMC STUDENTS II you have taken a CLASS AT NOTRE DAME, Monday or Wedneaday after 9 pm call Stave at 232-9816. 
BASS PLAYER WANTED 
Bass player needed for established 
campus band. Call Ted at 2387. 
BASS PLAYER WANTED 
PIECES OF A DREAM PERFORMING SATURDAY 9:00PM STEPAN CENTER AFTER SET DANCE, 1 1 :00-2:00 TICKETS AT THE CELLAR, $3.00 AD­VANCE,$4.00 AT THE DOOR OR CALL BCAC 239-6841 
NEED MSU and USC TICKETS call carolyn x3872 
SMC Damsel In distress needs 6 Mlch St. tlcketsl 284-5460 
WANTED: MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CAUL 284-4329 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR MICH STATE. CALL MEL, 2658, EVENINGS. 
Need ride to Michigan game. Call Robert at287-6939 
Hay, Logan Volunteeral 
NO.SMC Council for the Retarded Organlzallonal meeting: Thursday, Sept. 10, 7:30 PM, Knights of Columbus Hall (by Bookstore). SMC rides at Holy Cross Hall 7:00. Problem? Call Dennis (283­4075), Marie (284-5526) or Cora (283· 3391) 
ATTENTION BAMBI'S 
FINAL CUTS FOR BAMBI WILIL BE HELD FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE ACC. BRING AN EVENING GOWN, A WED­DING DRESS, AND A BIKINI. CONTACT JIM FOR DETAILS. 
FOR ALL 198'! SPRING LONDONERS The Faculty Dining Room will be reserved from 5:30 to 7:30, Wednesday, that's ton1ghtl Hope everyone can make It! $00.25 entrance fee. 
SKATEBOARD BRIAN: HER SYR IS OCT.31 -FRIENDS OF THE CLARINET PLAYER IN F-LINE 
MARKETING CLUB MEETING: 6:30 today In the Annapolis room In Lafortune All majors and classes welcome. 
HEY, ROCKIN' PAUL NEWETT: 
Now you can say DA to all the bitter you want 
wherever you want It 
(lap or olherwise). HAPPY 21atll Love, Marg 
BAGPIPE PLAYER ~ on St. Mary's Lake: Beautiful. Thanks. 
need ride 1<>1m Chicago this wknd call Rob 1435 
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS Meeting NEXT Wed Sept 16: 6:30 
Dave Shearon, don't worry. There are no personals In here for you today. 
GENTLEMAN JOE, THE SMART, STRAPPING, YOUNG STUD: WHAT A WASTE!I SIGNED, YOUR DEVOTED HAREM 
Mark This is your first personal from a frosh this year (I thlnkl). Suitable for mounting on a plaque' 
-Mimi 
Cath, Thanks for the best 2-112 years and for what is to come. a friend 
MIMI P.: You aren't really going to fall for the "gift personal" scam. are you? 
the other Mark 
Mimi P., 
Don't listen to him. My Intentions are purely Innocent ... and laudable. Mark P. 
ATTN. JULIE SCULLY, BROWN-EYED QUEEN OF RIVERSIDE, IF YOU REALLY READ THE OBSERVER AT HOME AND IF YOU REALLY ARE A TRUE GROUPIE PLEASE WRITE... YOUR JOURNALISTIC EXPERIMENT, DAVE 
IN LOVING MEMORY OF CLETUS WE'LL MISS YOU. R.I.P. LOVE, CUBI 
P.S. OH WELL, YOU WERE JUST A FISH I 
TO A VERY SPECIAL PERSON: TIM, GOOD LUCK IN ROME. I WILL MISS YOUII LOVE ALWAYS, M.J 
TIM BRANGLE, HAVE A GREAT TIME IN ROME. WE'LL WATCH M.J. FOR YOU. THANKS FOR ALL OF THE GREAT TIMESIII WE'LL MISS YOU TONSI LOVE, KATHY, ANNE, O.J., N.J., AND KATHLEEN. 
CONGRATS L.A.I WE KNEW YOU COULD MAKE THE TEAM! LOVE, 422 AND 424 MCCANDLESS 
RIDE NEEDED: Anywhere South (Terre Haute, Champaign. Charleston, etc.) weekend of Sept. 1 1-13. Will help Wlexpenses. Call Stacie at 284-5086. 
Well, I finally got my personal in, no thanks to you, Therese. Observer resident 

September 9, 1987 The Observer page 11 
Sports Wednesday 
Scoreboard 
Results for Sept. 2 through 8 
Volleybell Indiana over NO, 13-15, 15-13, 15-8, 15-11 ND over Ball State, 15-12, 12-15, 15-8, 15·8 
Soccer NO 2, Drake 0 NO 7, Detroit 1 Wisconsin-Milwaukee 4, SMC 0 
Women'l Cro.. Country Purdue 27, Illinois State 49, NO 53 
Women'l Tennle SMC at Valparaiso, late 
Irish Soccer 
Tueadoy Nlght'o Gome 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today Field hockey vs. NORTHERN ILLINOIS Soccer at Western Michigan 
SMC volleyball at Hope 
Thursday Volleyball at Michigan SMC tennis at DePaul SMC volleyball vs. LAKE MICHIGAN and ST. FRANCIS 
Friday Field hockey vs. KENT STATE SMC tennis at Hillsdale 
Irish Volleyball 

PLAYER GP K Zanette Bennett 11 40 Maureen Shea 11 32 Kathy Cunnin· 9 24 gham Mary Kay Waller 9 23 Rachel Hall 3 4 Colleen Wagner 3 4 Amy White 4 3 Taryn Collins 11 8 Kathy Baker 9 6 Jill Suglich 4 0 Kathleen Morin 1 0 NOTRE DAME 11 144 OPPONENTS 11 157 
AVG 
3.64 
2.91 
2.67 
2.56 1.33 1.33 0.75 0.73 0.67 0.00 0.00 13.09 14.27 

E 
4 10 19 
e 
2 4 3 2 6 0 
1 59 74 
TA 
101 82 86 
50 7 12 12 21 28 0 2 401 449 
PCT 
.356 .268 .058 
.300 .286 .000 .000 .286 .000 .000 -.500 .212 .185 
AST 1 1 1 
1 0 0 0 104 4 1 5 118 134 
AVG 
0.09 
0.09 
0.11 
0.11 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.45 0.44 0.25 5.00 10.73 12.18 
SA 
4 
3 
3 
3 1 0 0 3 0 0 0 17 15 
AVG 
0.36 0.27 0.33 
0.33 0.33 0.00 0.00 0.27 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.55 1.36 
DIGS AVG BS BA AVG 19 1.73 1 6 0.64 14 1.27 0 16 1.45 9 1.00 0 4 0.44 
16 1.78 3 16 2.11 2 0.67 2 2 1.33 6 2.00 0 2 0.67 15 3.75 0 3 0.75 25 2.27 1 8 0.82 16 1.78 0 10 1.11 5 1.25 0 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 1 1.00 127 11.55 7 88 3.73 190 17.27 13 28 2.45 
-~­

Notre Dome 7, Detroit 1 Notre Dame 4 3 7 Saturday DetrOit 0 I 
Football at Michigan AP Top 20 NFL Preseason 
Volleyball at Mid-American Classic 
Notre Dame · Behrje t. 3:57. Men's cross country at Georgetown The Top Twenty college football teama In The Top 20 Fared NATIONAL CONFERENCE Associated Press poll, with first-place votes In paren­
Flrot Holt 

Notre Dame · Behrte 2. 30:27. Women's cross country at Detroit Invi­By The A..oclated Prase Eaat 
Notre Dame · Connaghan t, 32:26. theses, this season's records and total points. Points W L T Pet. PF PA
tational
Notre Dame· McCoun t, 36:10. based on 20-t9-t8-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
N.Y. Giants 3 t o .750 92 n Detroit · LuHon, 42:05. Washington 3 t 0 .750 92 48 
How the Associated Press Top Twenty col­
Field hockey at Michigan are Italicized. 
lege football teams fared with last w~ek's
Women's tennis at NOTRE DAME St. Louis 2 2 0 .500 74 81 
1. Oklahoma (54) rankings and schedule for Sept. 12:
Second Holt 1·0·0 t,t54 Dallas t 3 0 .250 36 84 Notre Dame · Murphy t (McCourt) 63:58. 2. Nebraska (3) t-0-0 t,054 No. 1 Oklahoma (1·0·0) beat North Texas Philadelphia t 3 0 .250 35 97 
QUADRANGULAR 
SMC soccer vs. MARQUETIE
Notre Dame · Sternberg t (McCourt) 88:48. 3. UCLA (t) t-0-0 947 State 69-14; vs. North Carolina. Notre Dame · Sternberg 2. 89·59. 4. Auburn t-0-0 937 
No. 2 Nebraska (1·0·0) beat Utah State 
5. Ohio State 0-0-0 857 
56-12; vs. No.3 UCLA
Sholl on Gool -Notre Dame 24. Detroit 9. Soveo Sunday 6. Louisiana State 1-0-0 821 
No. 3 UCLA (1-0·0) beat San Diego State Centrol
·Lyons end Sanan (Notre Dame) 6. Foulo -Notre 7. Miami (Fla.) 1-0-0 793 Dame t B. Detroltt4 Corner• ·Notre Dame t. Detroit B. Florida State 744
Soccer vs. INDIANA t-()-0 47-14; at No.2 Nebraska. Chicago 3 t 0 .750 96 54 DatroK 2 2 0 .500 88 72
5 Volleyball at Mid-American Classic 9. Michigan 0-()-0 723 No. 4 Ohio State (0·0·0) was idle; vs. West tO. Clemson t-0·0 674 Virginia. 
Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 tOB 91

Women's tennis at NOTRE DAME Tampa Bay 2 2 0 .500 92 91
tt. Penn State 1·0·0 572 
No.5 Auburn (1·0·0) beat Texas 31-3; vs.
Canada Cup QUADRANGULAR Green Bay 0 4 0 .000 58 ttt
t2. Washington t-0-0 524 
Kansas. w L T GF GA Pto. 
SMC tennis vs. WISCONSIN-t3. Arkansas 0-0-0 475 
No.6 Louisiana State (1·0·0) beat No. 15
14. Tennessee 2·0·0 4t7
Canada 3 0 2 t9 t3 B MILWAUKEE Weal
Texas A&M 17-3; vs. Fullerton State.
t5. Arizona State 0-0-0 391 t6. Notre Dame 0-0-0 198 No. 7 Michigan (0-0-0) was idle; vs. No.
Sovtet Unton t
3 t 22 t3 7 SMC soccer vs. WOOSTER New Orleans 3 t 0 .750 93 75 Sweden 3 2 0 t7 t4 6 L.A. Rams 3 2 0 .600 108 tt2 Czechoalovak•a 2 2 t t2 t5 5 San Francisco
t7. Michigan State 1-()-0 161 18 Notre Dame. 
3 2 0 .600 92 73 

Untted States 2 3 0 13 14 4 Monday t B. Plrtsburgh 1-0·0 159 No.8 FloridaState(1-0·0) beat Texas Tech Atlanta 
t 3 0 .250 45 64 Ftnland 0 5 0 9 23 0 40-16; at East Carolina.
t9. Alabama 1·0·0 155 No sports scheduled 20. Georgia t-0·0 tt2 
No. 9 Clemson (1·0·0) beat Western Tuoldoy Nlghl'l Reault 
Carolina 43-0; at Virginia Tech. Semlllnola 
Others receiving votes: Iowa 87, Texas A&M 50,
Tuesc!ay No. 10 Miami (Fla.) (1-0-0) beat No. 20
North Carolina 44, Southern Cal 33, Colorado 27,
Sovtet Un1on 4, Sweden 2 AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
SMC volleyball vs. VALPARAISO South Carolina 20, Arizona 12, Boston College t 0, Florida 31-4; Is idle. Kent State B. Syracuse 6, Texas 6, Florida 4, Georgia No. 11 Penn State (1-0-0) beat Bowling
Wldneaday'a Gome EllI 
Semlllnola SMC tennis at Goshen W L T Pet. PF PA Canada va. Czechoslovakia Indianapolis 3 1 0 .750 75 78
Tech t, Oklahoma State t, Texas Christian t. Green 45-19; vs. Alabama. No. 12 Arkansas (0·0-0) was idle; at Mis­Miami 2 2 0 .500 tOO 64 sissippi. New England 2 2 0 .500 82 78
Sports Lists American League 
N.Y. Jets 2 2 0 .500 76 92 Buttato 3 0 .250 55 90 

No. 13 Washington (1-0-0) beat Stanford 
31-21; vs. Purdue. 
Eo at 

No. 14 Arizona State (0·0·0) was idle; at
w L Pet. GB 

Illinois.
Detroit 82 54 .603
Winningest college 
No. 15 Texas A&M (0·1·0) lost to No. 6 New York 78 .565 Louisiana State 17-3; vs. Washington. 
toronto 83 55 .60t 
60 5 Mllwauk.ee 75 63 .543 B No. 16 Iowa (0-1-0) was idle; vs. Arizona. Cleveland 3 t 0 .750 94 67 Cincinnati

Boston 65 72 .474 17.5 No. 17 Tennessee (2·0·0) beat Colorado 2 2 0 .500 82 99 Baltimore 62 75 .453 20.5 Houston 2 2 0 .500 60 75 
football teams 
State 49-3; at Mississippi State. Cleveland 53 87 .379 3t Pinsburgh 0 4 0 .000 79 130
No. 18 Notre Dame (0-0·0) was idle; at No. 7 Michigan.
last 50 years 
No. 19 Southern Cal (0-Q-Q) beat Michigan State 27-13; Is idle. W11t WHI No. 20 Florida (0·1·0) lost to No. 10 Miami, Kansas city 4 t o .eoo 99 n 
Minnesota 74 66 .529 
Denver 3 2 0 .BOO 1t9 t17 Oakland 70 68 .507 3 
Fla., 31-4; vs. Tulsa. 
SeaHie 2 2 0 .500 t07 7t

No. 20 Georgia (1-Q-Q) beat Virginia 30-22; 
Kansas City 69 70 .496 4.5 
San Diego 2 2 0 .500 83 46 Calitomia 67 72 .482 6.5 
vs. Oregon State. 
LA. Raiders t 3 0 .250 70 79 SeaHie 85 73 .47t B Texas 65 73 .47t B Chicago 59 79 .428 t4 
National Lea ue 
1. Tennessee State 353 83 16 .799 
T...cley'a Reouna

2.0klahoma 411 113 16 .776 IEMt IEMtem Dlvt..on
Detroit at Be~lmore, ppd. rain 
W L Pet. 08 w L T OF GA Pta.
3. Penn State 378 120 14 .752 Boston 8, New York 8 
St. Louis Bt 56 .59t Winnipeg 7 3 0 308 235 14SeaHie 7, Cleveland 0
4. Ohio State 359 120 17 .741 New York 79 59 .572 2.5 Haml~on 7 3 0 288 258 t4
Chicago 4, Minneeota 3 
Montreal 78 59 .569 3 Toronto 4 5 1 269 264 9
5. Grambling State 336 113 15 .740 Milwaukee 8, Toronto 4 
Philadelphia 7t 87 .5t4 t0.5 onawa 2 7 0 236 306 4Kansas City 4, CaiHomia 2
6. Florida A&M 363 124 14 .739 Chicago 68 69 .496 13
Texas 12, Oakland 1 Pittsburgh 64 74 .464 17.5 WNiem Dlvtoton
7.Aiabama 389 131 23 .738 
Brttlah Columbia 6 3 0 253 163 12 

8. Notre Dame 364 135 17 .722 WNI Edmonton 6 4 0 342 260 t2 
Wldneadey'o Gomea 

San Francisco 75 84 .540 Catgaty 4 6 0 224 323 89.Michigan 356 135 13 .719 Texas (Witt 7-B) at Oakland (Davis 0-0) Houston 69 69 .500 5.5 Saskatchewan 2 7 t 222 33t 5 
DetroK (Alexander 4-()) at BaKimore (Boddlcker 11>-7)
10. West Chester (Pa.) 316 120 13 .718 Cincinnati 69 70 .496 6 
New York (Hudson 9-5) at Boston (Clemens 15·8) 
Atlanta 59 78 .431 t5 Mondoy'a RetlultaTie Cal Lutheran 175 67 6 .718 Seattle (Moore 6-17) at Cleveland (Balles 6·8) 
Los Angeles 58 80 .420 t6.5 Calgaty 29, Edmonton 20 
Chicago (Dotson tQ-t2) at Minnesota (Viola t4-B)
Tie Texas 381 146 12 .718 San Dlago 58 82 .406 t8.5 Haml~on 25, Toronto t9 
Toronto (Clancy t2-t0) at Milwaukee (Balker 2·1) 
Tuoaday'a Reauno Fr1dly'a Gomeo PiHsburgh 4, Chicago t British Columbia at onawa 
•1937-1986; all divisions including playoffs and bowl games Los Angeles 5, Cincinnati 3 Saturday'• Glmea Thuracloy'a Gomea Montreal 4, St. Louis t Toronto at Edmonton Baltimore at Boston New York 5, Philadelphia 2 Suncloy'a Glmea Source: NCAA Kansas City at Oakland Atlanta 4, San Dlago 2 Catgaty at Winnipeg 
Detroit at Milwaukee San Francisco 6, Houston 4 Texas at California 



ATTENTION SENIORS: 
THE LOCATION FOR SENIOR PORTRAITS HAS BEEN CHANGED TO THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM-­I ST FLOOR LA FORTUNE. 
If you missed signups see the secretary at the information desk outside of the New Orleans Room between 12:00 & 8:00 pm. 
BEACON BOWL BAR & RESTAURANT WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
Bowling Mon. -Fri. after 9:00pm & All day Saturday & Sunday. 
NOOT. MARY'S STUDENT DISCOUNT RATES 4210 Lincolnway West 
2.34-4167 


page 12 The Observer 
executive board and most of the league's player representa­

Strike 
tives. Upshaw said that after continued from page 16 being briefed on the progress the second week of the regular of talks between the union and season. The walkout lasted 57 management, the full board days, eliminating seven games voted unanimously to declare of the 16-game regular season. a strike date and 24-4 on the 
In fact, the last four negotia­Sept. 22 date. tions with the union have The announcement comes resulted in strikes, the previous one day after management ones during the exhibition delivered its "proposal for season. settlement" to the NFLPA. 
"The history of this union is after reading the outline Mon­to put negotiations in crisis," day, Upshaw called it "gar­Donlan said in his statement. bage." 
"They've never had a negotia­"That position in no way is a tion without a strike. Now that framework for settlement," we know what their strike Upshaw said Tuesday. "It's agenda is, what is their bargin­quite the opposite. What it is, ing agenda?" in all honesty, is a $45 million 
The announcement of the takeback on the part of the strike date came following a clubs. We will not stand for meeting between the NFLP A those type of actions." 
' •

,_ 
' ' 
AP Photo 
MSU running back Lorenzo White beats the 17th In this week's AP Top Twenty. See story, 
Get Involved With 
defense against USC. The Spartans are ranked page 14. 
and sign-up forms contact An­The Crew Team will usc
Briefs 
gela Athletic Facility at 284-have a mandatory practice for continued from page 10 5549. -The Observer the varsity men's team tomor­Undergraduate Schools Committee The Sailing Club will be row at 4:15 p.m. at the boat­offering sailing lessons for all The Fightin' Irish 5-10 house. A general meeting will 
experience levels this fall at and Under League will hold its be followed by a 5-mile erg test Be a representative of the 3:30p.m. Mondays and 4 p.m. captain's meeting tomorrow at and boat repairs. Practice will 
Admissions Office to your

Tuesdays and Thursdays. Dues 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre last until 6: 15. If you can't 
mllst be paid at or before your in LaFortune. The meeting is make it call Chris Nye at 236-high school over October 
fir~t lesson and will be ac­mandatory. -The Observer 4400 or 288-9529. -The Observer 
or Christmas break.

cepted at the first weekly meeting, tonight, at 6:30 p.m. The Racquetball Club The Alpine Club will hold Call Pat (3653) or Brian (1802) 
at the boathouse. Any ques­is forming a league for all in­an organizational meeting to­
for more information.
tions, call Mark Ryan at 3024. terested players. Participants morrow at 7 p.m. in the An­-The Observer will play one match a week, napolis Room, first floor Applications available in the Admissions starting in about two weeks. LaFortune. Anyone interested 
Office (113 Admin. Bldg.). Deadline 15
Referees are needed For more information, call in canoeing, kayaking, back­for SMC intramurals co-ed flag Dave (1425) or Mark (1422). -packing, etc. is invited to at­Sept. 11. football. For more information The Observer tend. -The Observer 
I 
I 
Alessardi. Fernando DeGirolamo, Theresa Hogan, Pat McConielle, Susan Pient. William Shaw. Dave 
Arroe. Bernardo Devlin, Jane Jackson, Echelor McElroye, Amy Pitchard, Catherine Shimazu, Asako 
Balesh, James Devlin, Maureen Jauriqui, Jessica McHugh, Bill Poirier, Greg Shiner, Damian 
Baring, 1i1cla Dilh, Michelle Jefferies, Dylbia Mehl. Nick Prechtie, Mimi Shipman, Ann 
Barnes, Jesilyn Doherty, Brian Jennings, Tracy Mensore, Michelle Ramos, Kathy Shipman, Scott 
Barrett, Jim Donnelly, Sean Killon, Molly Michard, Patty Reigna, Rachel Sierra, Alica 
Berninger, Michelle Figura, Todd King, Tina Mohan, Jim Rhee. Jae Slattery, Tim 
Bettinger. Tim Finn, Chris King, Tom Monteza, Elias Rinaldi. Frank Soisson, Anne 
Bonvechio, Jennifer Fisher, Rob Koehn, Karen Moreno, Frank Rock, Tim Squyres~ Theresa 
Boutote, Mary Fitzpatrick, Martin KotUimski, Annie Morgan, Carla Roos, Nancy Stonger, Peter 
Brown, Anatasia Flynn, Christopher Labrador, Martel Mosley, Christine Sachar. Barb Summers, Brian 
Brown, Greg Gerberry, Rob Larson, Mike Murphy, Maureen Sandberg, Eileen Thomson, Rob 
Bucolo, Joe Gile. Paula Letscher, Tim Murray, Loretta Scanlon, Colleen Tighe, Leo 
Burnham, Dave Gordon, Gertie Liddy. Marie Naradel, Stacy Schaible, Diane Titsworth, Richard 
Carroll, Christopher Gray, Jen Lohrer, Alice Nemecek, Tracy Schaller, Gretchen Traupman, Heidi 
Carzola. Amy Greene, Michelle Long, Sue Newett, Anne Scheickert, Adam Ubelhart, Kevin 
Cassidy, Carey Grohman, Tricia Lyons, Rachel Norman, Mike Schiffgens. Lisa Vega, Monica 
Caven, Jack Hamlin, Kim Madrod, Kerry Nugent, Kim Schlidt, Andy Wahlenmayer, Kim 
Cihak, Chris Harron, Amy Maggio, Brian O'Byme, Pat Schmidt, Dave Waiter, Mike 
Conway, Brian Hayes, Jean Martinez, Monica Palamaro, Julie Schubert, Charles Wallmeyer, Christine 
Conway. Mike Henriquez, Jozef Mattio, John Panitpakdi, Aphi Sedlack, Robert Werner, Jack 
Crowe, Marty Hickey, Kim McAdam, Tim Perkins, Steve Shannon, Kerrie Ann Yurchak, Liza 
Damm, York Ho, Deborah A McCarthy, Sheila Peznick, Lenore Sharpe, Karen 
I 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987 The Observer page 13 
Ray Perkins, who left the Tide 
after a brief tenure to coach 
Tampa Bay and Vinny. Bill

Aldrete's hit beats Astros Preview 
continued from page 16 Curry is the new head coach after coaching Georgia tech to
Associated Press Dodgers 5, Reds 3 Expos 4, Cardinals 1 
candidate for the Butkus a (gulp) 31-43-4 record over the 
HOUSTON -Mike Aldrete's two-run double with two outs in the ninth inning gave the first­place San Francisco Giants a 6-4 victory over the Houston Astros Tuesday night. 
The victory, which came after the Giants had blown a 4-0 advantage in the seventh, increased their lead in the Na­tional League West to 5 112 games over the second-place Astros. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
CINCINNATI Franklin Stubbs drove in three runs with a triple and a single Tuesday night, giving the Los Angeles Dodgers a 5-3 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
White Sox 4, Twins 3 
MINNEAPOLIS Gary Redus hit a two-run home run in the seventh inning and had three hits Tuesday night to back the combined eight-hit pitching of Floyd Bannister and Bobby Thigpen as Chicago topped Minnesota 4-3 at the Metrodome. 
NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. 
Fill-out order form below & mail to: make check payable to: P.O. Box 191 (don't use ND Student Cake Service ND, IN 46556 campus mail) 
Dellve Dltl Sender's Name 
ry ...........HIHIIIIIIIIIIIIII a Phone 
·········•·························· 

Reclplenrs Name & Address ·-·-·--.............-----·-··-·-..­Cakes:slzes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.00 halt sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 Icing: white wl fruit $12.50 chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-lncludes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
MONTREAL -Bryn Smith and Andy McGaffigan com­bined on a four-hitter Tuesday night, leading the Montreal Ex­pos to a 4-1 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Brewers 6, Blue Jays 4 
MILWAUKEE-Juan Castil­lo, Robin Yount and B.J. Sur­hoff drove in two runs each and Chris Bosio won his third straight game Tuesday night as the Milwaukee Brewers snapped Toronto's six-game winning streak, defeating the Blue Jays 6-4. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
have eliminated last year's mistakes. 
"I'm optimistic," said Lin­denfeld, "we've worked to im­prove our scoring and defen­sive marking and once the freshmen have assimilated into the program we should be able to do very well." 
Award for outstanding 
Iinebackers1inemen. 
Navy returns no starters on defense and only five offensive starters from a 3-8 1986 cam­paign. The top returning threat for the Midshipmen is speedy Chuck Smith, a halfback-kick returner wno ranks fifth among returning Division I-A players in all-purpose yards for 1986 with 149.8. Navy runs a wish­bone offense, which will be di­rected by senior quarterback John Nobers. 
Boston College returns 11 starters from an 8-3 team last season. Mike Power and Mark Kamphaus are still battling for the starting quarterb_a~k slot. · Their number one target will be Darren Flutie, yes, the bro­ther of Doug. Flutie caught 35 passes for 531 yards last season to lead BC. The Eagles have a strong offensive line to protect the quarteroack and open up the holes for running backs, even though nobody has emerged for the Eagles as a consistent ball carrier. 
Alabama fans are a little up­set with the replacement for 
&..!::~""-b><bo•.,q,oD>c~OM..~~~-..o-..o~c.q...qw.qw...~~~~~ 
THE GAMER'S EXCHANGE 
*BOARD GAMES AND ROLEPLAYING* Meeting for all new & returnir)g 
members. 
last seven years. Bear Bryant must be turning over in his grave. 
The Tide will be led by Heis­man candidate Bobby Humphrey, who rushed for 1471 yards, scored 17 touchdowns and was the SEC Player of the Year in 1986. Walk-on junior David Smith will call the sig­nals for the Tide. Barna's defense will be hurting with the loss of eight starters. 
Penn State lost 16 starters and won't repeat as national champion but Joe Paterno and another lame schedule should keep the Nittany Lions in the Top ~u at least. Capable senior Matt Knizner will replace John Shaffer at quarterback, while junior tailback Blair Thomas may make Lions fans forget 
D.J. Dozier. Thomas is the top kickoff returner back from the 1986 season in Division I-A with 
31.9 yards a return. . ne Penn State linebacking corps will again be one of the best in the nation, but their line is depleted and could be vulnerable to talented Irish backs. 
Miami may have lost Tes­taverde but they are probablythe most talented team Notre Dame will face in 1987. Sopho­more Steve Walsh will take over for Vinny and has a solid set of recievers to throw to, led by Brett Perriman and second­team all-American Michael Ir­vin. Bennie Blades, a con­sensus All-American free safety a year ago, leads the defense. No less than 44 of the 'Canes 49 sacks last year are 

·<h>'-:h><bt<.b'M.0"><.~~~~"""4l"'-"'"'-D-.Q,.q..,,.... back this fall. 



TI advanced scientifics have all the right engineering and science functions to help you function better in school. When we set out to make our most 
advanced scientific calculators, we gave a lot of thought to what your science, math and engineering 
prohlems are. Then we designed our calculators around them. The result: the Tl-60 and the new TI-65 are hoth packed with huilt-in functions. Plus, there are programming steps to spt•ed you through repetitive calcula­tions. But even though hoth can handle the hardest prohlems, they're easy to use. Large, color-coded keys and simple keyhoard layouts mean you spend less time figuring out the calculator and more time figuring out your prohlems. 
So if you're the kind of student whti's got science on the hrain, get the calculators from the folks who've given their hrains to science. The Advanced Scienrifics from Texas Instruments. 
'"'"' TEXAS. 
INSTRUMENlS 


-~----~­

-----------~ 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 9, 1987 
Irish jump to 16th in AP footba II poll 
Associated Press 

Despite a week that saw it take the field only in practices, the Notre Dame football team jumped from 18th to 16th in the Associated Press Top 20 Poll released Tuesday. The Irish open the season Saturday against Michigan, which fell two places, from 7th to 9th, al­though they were also idle. 
Oklahoma, Nebraska and UCLA remained the top three teams in the second poll of the year -and the first during the season -while Auburn moved 
Green hires L.ucchesi for season 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Frank Lucchesi was named interim manager of the Chicago Cubs Tuesday, replacing Gene Michael, who resigned after almost 1 12 years. 
General Manager Dallas Green announced Lucchesi's appointment and said, "Frank understands that it is for 25 games and no longer." 
Green said the move will "give us time to gather our thoughts and give us time re­garding the managerial deci­sion. We'd like to make the decision in October or November, hopefully before the winter meetings. But we won't make a decision until we're completely satisfied." 
IF YOU C~~N'T READ IT... 

into the fourth spot after its 31-3 victory over Texas. 
The Sooners, who started off their season with a 69-14 drub­bing of North Texas State, were named No. 1 on 54 of 5H tlaHots cast by a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters. 
Oklahoma received 1,154 points to 1,054 for Nebraska, which got three first-place votes after a 56-12 victory over Utah State. The other first­place vote went to No.3 UCLA, a 47-14 victor over San Diego State in its opener, with 947 points. 
Third base coach John Vukovich has been considered a prime candidate for the job from which Michael figured to be fired at the end of the season. 
"It would be unfair to put someone like Vuke under the 
--gun for the final 25 games," Green _said. "The pressure would be terrific." Vukovich said Green called him Monday night after he had learned of Michael's resigna­tion. "He explained it to me, and I understand completely," said Vukovich. "Certainly I want the job, who wouldn't?" Lucchesi, 59, managed in the minor leagues for 17 years before taking over the Philadelphia Phillies from 
Those three teams occupied the same spots in the AP's preseason poll. 
The only movement in the Top Five came when Auburn and Ohio State flip-flopped. Auburn moved up one spot to fourth with 937 points, while Ohio State, which has not opened its season yet, fell one spot with 857. 
The rest of the Top Ten was: Louisiana State, 821; Miami, Fla., 792; Florida State, 744; Michigan, 723, and Clemson, 
674. Last week, it was LSU, 
1970-72. He replaced Billy Mar­tin as manager of the Texas Rangers in 1975 and managed them until he was fired in 1977. His managerial record in the major leagues was 341-429. 
Probably the most memorable part of Lucchesi's managerial career came before the 1977 season. In 
spring training, Lucchesi relieved second baseman Lenny Randle of his starting job, and Randle, angered by the demotion, punched Luc­chesi. Lucchesi wound up in the hospital. 
Green said he would consider a list of candidates and the naming of a black manager "is a possibility. Billy Williams would be a good candidate." 
Michigan, Florida State, Clem­son and Miami, Fla. 
The Second Ten consisted of Penn State, Washington, Arkansas, Tennessee, Arizona State, Notre Dame, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, Alabama and Georgia. 
Last week's Second Ten was Penn State, Arkansas, Wash­ington, Arizona State, Texas A&M, Iowa, Tennessee, Notre Dame, Southern Cal and a tie between Florida and Georgia for 20th. 
Michigan State, Pitt and Al­abama were the newcomers to 
·~Knights ofthe Castle Men's Hairstyling 
YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 . 

DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 
Ill ALUMNI 
SENIOR 
!CLUB 
WEDNESDAY 
ALL IMPORTS $1 
SCREWDRIVERS 75 CENTS 

THURSDAY 
IMPORT DRAFT $1 MALIBU PINEAPPLES 75 CENTS 

DON'T MISS .. 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
PIZZA, SUBS, AND SUDS OPEN 12 NOON TO 2 PM 
I.D. REQUIRED 

Thursday-Open 8-1 
campus DJ-
Friday-Open 8~2 
Playing your favorites {rom 8-10 THEN 10pm-2am DJ 
Saturday -Open 8-2 
DJ 10-2 
Sunday-Open 12-6 
Great specials on subs and Mexican food from 12-4. 
the poll, while Texas A&M, Iowa, Southern Cal and Florida fell out. 
Michigan State moved into 17th with a 27-13 victory over Southern Cal. Pitt beat Brig­ham Young 27-17, and Alabama defeated Southern Mississippi 38-6. 
Texas A&M fell out after a 17-3loss to LSU, and Forida lost 31-4 to Miami, Fla. Iowa was idle last week, but the Haw­keyes lost their kickoff classic opener to Tennessee, 23-22, the week before. 
THIS WEEK'S 
CHEAP 
DRINKS 

Wednesday, September 9, 1987 The Observer page 15 
Campus 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross 
House. 4:30p.m.: Field Hockey ND vs. Northern Illinois, Alumni Field. 6:30p.m.: Marketing Club meeting, bring your $5 registration fee, Annapolis 
Room, LaFortune. 7 p.m.: Big Brother's orientation meeting for sophomores who signed up at Activities Night, Center for Social Concerns Coffee Room. 
7 p.m.: Career and Placement Services presentationteception for all Finance and Accountancy seniors interested in discovering career opportunities with General Mills, Upper Lounge, University Club. 
7:30 p.m. -9 p.m.: Faculty Conversations on Connections: Historical View of the Development of Science and Technology, students are welcome, sponsored by Sigma Xi, The Program in Science, Technology and Values and Saint Mary's College, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Club Sandwich Veal Scallopini Veal Parmesan Beef Tacos Spaghetti w/Italian Sauce Cheese Crisps Broccoli Turnover Deli Bar 



Comics 
' 
Bloom County 
1/WRI&Hf'.. 6eT (.If' MISTeR atveR "M(}{Jf;R# Jffr'leS N 
J0Nf.5 / 
\ 
Beernuts 
IJHATRE >t:V Gi/YS ln'NG? 
I 
~lNG TO THINK 1/P 
I/)£A5 RAf THE ~H 
T-5HIR_T CCWTFST 50 FAR, WE'VE 60T· 6R/Ill­A 6REffrSTAT£ m 
UIIE tAL'' ... GET IT.'? 
5tt Dltl\ D(IV£ 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Cultivate 5 Indictment 
response 9 Twelve dozen 14 Understanding 
words 15 Tear violently 16 Choir attire 17 Rock under a 
blow 18 Apiece 19 Dodge 20 Looks lovingly 23 Loop trains 24 Seance sound 25 Steal from 28 Ejected 31 -monster 35 Calendar abbr. 36 Kingston 
singers 37 CPA job 38 Look out for 
No. 1 42 Examines 
judicially 43 Impose (a tax) 44 Baba 45 Mentally 
sound 46 Beset 48 Dry as wine 49 Haggard novel 50 Galoot 52 Trifle (with) 61 Montague 
casualty 62 Hodgepodge 63 Once more 64 Neptune's 
realm 65 Splendid 66 Jade 67 Group for a 
sheriff 68 Trepidation 69 Badge for a 
sheriff 

DOWN 1 Company 2 Befuddled 3 Fume 4 Donnybrook 5 Stress 6 Jacob's wife 
. 

Berke Breathed 
1--+---+---+----'­ 
- 
© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc.  
All Rights Reserved  
7 Refer follower  
8 Stick  
9 Comprehend  
10 Wander about  
11 Mind  
12 Waterless  
13 Fast jets  
21 Two-toed  
critters  
22 Launch locale  
25 Large  
collections  
26 "Norma" for  
one  
27 Intellect  
29 Knight's title  
30 Implements  
31 Firearm  
32 Fancies  09109187  
33 Cotton thread 47 Detonate  56 "I knowed It  
34 Loft 49 Oatmeal cake  was-"  
37 Place of 51 Angoras  (Twain)  
safety 52 Support  57 Ms Foch  
39 Pipe joint 53 Crazy  58 Army group  
40 Teachers' org. 54 Iowa city  59 Vaccines  
41 Sinner 55 Proponents'  60 Water  
46 Cry of triumph votes  vessel  
The Far Side  Gary Larson  

£XC(J5£ M€. 1.5 JH/5 &OING 7Hflr'J NEW, fill ? 
eJ!?IIf1/Jf?UJ WITH 1/U 
Wat. ~IN 1lJ 8€ II PICK€fo/.5-€5()(/£ FOI?&~N 11(£ 8CUJV€P 
fOI( If HeCK OF 'NI&HTMIIK€ WITH f/ ~55116€" JH/N&S Of YIJ(Jf( PIIST, EH ?,, 
or< !?liTH€!? II Mlt.!Gfff LVII'r;;. -/V.f/1
If Nt6HT, fJ(!I?PY 
''€NfJ-UP-Ifo/ -Het.t-''

.,t.IK€ ME, Y(}(/R a ' 
fJOY / 
50Kr Of 1HING ~

1EPPY, €H ~ 
I . I 
Mark Williams 
HO/J 'sa!r-NWE KNJJJ IT5 UGLY BI!T AT LEAST IT 
8/NGtJ. 
AIN'T FLANN£R..• \. 


7:00, 9:00, ll:OOpm Engineering Auditorium $2.00 


r----~--~-------------~­
Sports 
Wednesday, September 9, 1987-page 16 

The Observer I Greg Kohs Irish forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt scontd one beat Detroit Tuesday, 7-1. See story below. goal and assisted on two others as Notre Dame 
Irish overwhelm Titans 7-1 
Special to The Observer Murphy and Tom Connaghan lect 6 saves for the Irish. 
each had single tallies. Detroit, which is in its first 
The Irish soccer squad im­Notre Dame dominated from season of varsity soccer, was proved its record to 3-0 on the the start, building a 4-0 lead playing its third game in four season Tuesday night by over­before Brian Lutton notched nights. Earlier this season the whelming Detroit, 7-1. the Titan's only goal at the Titans edged Bowling Green, 
Midfielders Rolfe Behrje and 42:05 mark. The Irish then ex­the sixth-ranked team in the Joe Sternberg led the Irish at­ploded for three goals in the Great Lakes region, 2-1. tack with two goals apiece. second half. The Irish will face Western Forward Bruce "Tiger" Notre Dame outshot Detroit Michigan tonight before re­McCourt added a goal and two 24-9 as keepers Dan Lyons and turning home Sunday againstassists, and forwards Pat Mike Sattan combined to col-Indiana. 
Players announce strike date 
Associated Press ting a deadline, we hope to get 31. Each side has accused the 
management to talk with us," other of not wanting to bargain
WASHINGTON -The NFL Upshaw said. face-to-face. players Association said Tues­"Right now we know what day it will strike on Sept. 22, Jack Donlan, executive direc­the deadline is," Upshaw said. after the second week of the tor of the Management Council, "Jack and I have to work season, unless there is consi­said in a statement released by against that deadline, and if we 
derable progress toward a new spokesman John Jones that the don't meet that deadline the contract with the owners. sides would set a date for next step will be taken, which 
"Management left us. no resumption of negotiations is a strike." choice but to set a strike dead­Friday, the day after the Asked if the strike deadline line," Gene Upshaw, the exec­owners meet in Chicago to dis­was firm, Upshaw replied: "At utive director of the players as­cuss the situation. Upshaw said this point the date is there, but 
sociation, said after the 24-4 he hoped the talks could everything is negotiable." 
vote by the player representa­resume on that day. The current deadline is the 
tives of the 28 teams. same as it was five years ago,
"We're willing to bargain, The two sides have met for when the players struck after but we can only do that at the just 4 lt2 hours since Aug. 14, bargaining table. And by set-and the contract expired Aug. see STRIKE, page 12 
Field hockey opens season 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
the team will be senior co­Sports Writer captains Benet DeBerry and 
M.J. Beetel. DeBerry will han­
Today the Notre Dame field dle most of the offensive re­hockey team will take to the sponsibilities, although her soggy grass of Alumni Field to skills as a link are essential at face the visiting Huskies of the defensive end as well. Northern Illinois. Beetel will return as goalie
The Irish hope to open the for the Irish with her primary season with a victory and im­responsibility being guidance prove on last year's record of over the defense. 6-12-1. It will also give them the 
Fifth-year senior Mary Wag­opportunity to avenge last ner will be back to add experi­year's defeat at the hands of ence to the forward line, andthe Huskies. 
junior Caroline Berezny andDespite the loss of three Jill Llndenfeld sophomore Debbie Charles­starting forwards, as well as worth will stabilize a lineup yet Corinne DeGiacomo, Notre and that adds a whole new di­to be proven in a game situa­Dame's all-time career scoring mension to our game." 
tion.

leader, the Irish hope to make Freshmen Patricia Ahearne the best of several new weap­and Megan Fay will lead a The Irish face a tough ons in this year's game plan. A fleet-footed group of nine fresh­schedule this year. With onlystrong freshman class will lead men who will contribute to the five games at home, they will this attack which will focus on team's uptempo style this year. have to play Big 10 power­speed and skill. Their performances will be houses Michigan, Michigan
"We're hopeful," said Irish the keys to a swift rebuilding State and Purdue on the road. head coach Jill Lindenfeld. of the forward line and a suc­They hope preseason workouts "We have more speed and cessful season. depth with the freshman class Forming the foundation for see IRISH, page 13 
O'Gara reviews 1OOth Irish season 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
In three days, Notre Dame fans will sit themselves down in Michigan Stadium or in front of a TV to witness season number 100 of Irish football and season number two of Lou Holtz' tenure as head football coach under the Dome. 
With less than 75 hours and counting until the first kick­off, this is a good time to take a final pre-season look at the 11 opponents that hopefully pave the road to a bowl bid: 
Michigan is the first and perhaps most important chal­lenge of the season. The Wolverines have not lost a home opener since Bo Schembechler took over as head coach, which means for the past 18 years. Michigan returns seven starters on both sides of the line, including a huge offensive line that intends to clear the way for 5'7" tailback Jamie Morris. A Heisman hopeful entering the '87 campaign, Morris has rushed for 1,000 yards in two consecutive seasons. 
Sophomore red-shirt Demetrius Brown will likely be Bo's choice to replace all-Big Ten QB Jim Harbaugh and start on Saturday, but no official announcement has been made.. 
Michigan State will be Notre Dame's first test at home. The Spartans should boast an improved squad from last year's 6-5 season. Four of those losses came by a total of 12 points, a statistic with a familiar ring to the Irish. Michigan State returns eight offensive starters, including another Heisman candidate, Lorenzo White. White rushed for 1,908 yards his sophomore year before falling victim 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


to knee and ankle injuries last fall. Replacing '86 quarter­back Dave Yarema will be junior Bobby McAllister, who has the good legs to run the option. The Spartans' defense lost only two starters from last year's team. 
Purdue will be showing several new faces when the Irish head to West Lafayette on September 26. Former Texas mentor Fred Akers takes on the head coaching task for the Boilermakers, replacing Leon Burnett. Also gone from last year's 3-8 squad is quarterback Jeff George, who signed with Miami and then Illinois because he feared Akers would bring in a run-dominated offense. 
Senior Doug Downing will get the nod to start at quar­terback. The Boilermaker secondary will feel the loss of All-American cornerback Rod Woodson, and should be vulnerable to the pass. 
Pittsburgh is once again rebuilding after several mediocre seasons in the 1980's. The Panthers should be used to second-year Head Coach Mike Gottfried and will return sixteen starters, eight on offense and eight on defense. This experience should help Pitt improve last fall's 5-5-1 record, while a much-heralded freshman class will be called on to give the team some depth. 
The Panthers received a blow last month when tailback Charles Gladman was declared ineligible for refusing to cooperate with NCAA and University investigations into possible illegal deals and cash payments with agent Norby Waters. 
Air Force and Head Coach Fisher DeBerry finished last season 6-5 and now find the cupboard looking a bit bare, thanks to the graduation of nine defensive starters and an injury-filled spring. Sophomore Steve Letnich appears to be the top candidate at quarterback and will run the wish­bone offense. 
The Falcons don't have a top rusher, but that's OK be­cause they don't have a very good offensive line either. Holding down the fort on defense will be All-America can­didate Chad Hennings, who powerlifts 1300 pounds. 
Southern Cal has been called a big question mark in 1987 by many, even more so after Monday's 27-13 loss to Michigan State in which they looked anything but Top 20ish. Larry Smith has come from Arizona to take over at the helm for the Trojans, replacing Ted Tollner who we all know was fired because he couldn't beat Notre Dame. Junior Rodney Peete will return to lead the USC offense at quarterback, while Smith has installed the Power-I formation in search of reviving the glory days of Southern Cal tailbacks. 
Outside linebacker Marcus Cotton returns to anchor the defense. Cotton made 149 tackles last fall and is a leading 
see PREVIEW, page 13 






