

Sunny, Cool Clear and 
J ACCENT: Peace movement re1ps visit ND cool today, high 65 to 70. Clear and very cool tonight with the low near 45. Sunny and pleas­ant Thursday with the high in 
J VIEWPOINT: An intellectual potpourri 
the lower 70s. 



Malloy, pope to meet later this month 
By MATT GALLAGHER News Staff 
University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy will meet with Pope John Paul II Sept. 12, 1987, in New Orleans to discuss Catholic higher edu­cation. 
The meeting, at Xavier Uni­versity, will highlight the Pope's stay in New Orleans, part of his visit to the southern United States next week. Pope John Paul will meet with rep­resentatives of all of the Cath­olic colleges and universities of the United States. 
"Each city (on the Pope's tripJ is highlighting a different aspect of Catholic life,'' Malloy said. "New Orleans has two themes: one is the Black Cath­olic experience, and the other is Catholic education." 
Along with Malloy, the Notre Dame delegation will include Rev. David Tyson, vice­president for student affairs; Dr. Robert Gordon, vice­president for advanced studies; James Murphy, asso­ciate vice-president for Univer­sity relations, and Ann Firth, director of residence life. They will be presenting the Pope with a folio describing educa­tion at Notre Dame, Malloy said. 
The morning session of the meeting, organized by the Na­tional Catholic Educational As­sociation, will stress primary and secondary education in America. The evening session will present American higher education. The Pope will view a short video presentation, hear several brief addresses, and be presented with written statements from each school, according to Malloy. 
Malloy, who has had the op­portunity to see Pope John Paul II before in Rome, expressed his excitement at the possibil­
ity of representing Notre Dame at this program. 
"I think," Malloy stated, "if you look at Catholic higher edu­cation, the vast bulk of institu­tions in the world exist in the United States ... and we think that's what we're celebrating, and this will be our opportunity to do it." 


Death of priest ruled a suicide 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI News Editor 

The death of a priest who taught theology at Notre Dame was ruled a suicide late Mon­day night by Deputy County Coroner James McMeel. 
Father Niels Rasmussen, 53, was found dead in the base­ment of his home at 602 West Parkovash St. Monday around 4 p.m., said Lieut. Rick Kil­gore, public information offi­cer for the South Bend Police. 
An associate professor of the­ology, Rasmussen died of a single, self-inflicted gunshot wound to the chest, McMeel said. 
McMeel estimated the time of death as sometime Saturday afternoon. 
Investigators still do not know why Rasmussen killed himself, Kilgore said. 
The body was found by an­other professor of theology, who had gone to the house after Rasmussen had failed to attend the formal opening of school mass Sunday morning or his Monday classes, Kilgore said. 
After finding the door locked, the other professor obtained a key to the house from a neigh­bor, entered the house, and found Rasmussen's body in the basement, said Kilgore. 
Rasmussen, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1979, left a note in a sealed envelope addressed to a friend, McMeel said. The note asked that Ras­mussen's body be cremated "in the event anything happened to him," McMeel said. 
Police, however, are not treating this as a suicide note, he added. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will celebrate a memorial Mass for Rasmus­sen Friday at 10 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
A prayer service will be held for Rasmussen at 4: 15 today in the Library Auditorium Lounge. 
Rasmussen, a native of Den­mark, was ordained a Dominican priest by the bishop of Copenhagen in 1963. He received his doctorate in theol­ogy from the Institut Cataholique de Paris in 1978, traveling to Catholic Univer­sity in Washington D.C. the fol­lowing year, where he taught for a year before coming to Notre Dame as an assistant professor. 
In 1983, Rasmussen, an ex­pert in Latin liturgies, became an associate professor. 

lraquis claim more hits as gulf war continues 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain Rockets filred by an Iranian speedboat started a fire on a Spanish supertanker Tues­day, and Iraq said its planes hit four ships and Iranian in­dustrial targets. Iran claimed it shot down three raiding aircraft. 
A convoy of U.S. Navy warships and two reflagged Kuwaiti tankers arrived !)afely in the emirate's 'waters. Kuwait and Iraq, which has been at war with Iran since September 1980, are neighbors at the head of the Persian Gulf. 
The ships started up the gulf Saturday, the day after raids were renewed in the waterway after a six-week lull. The only incident re­ported during the 550-mile trip was the rescue of a downed Iraqi pilot. 
Iraq reported air raids Tuesday on four ships in the gulf and five industrial and oil target~. in its air war on Iran's economy. 
Iran reported retaliatory 
raids on military and indus­
trial targets in Iraq. 
In Washington, the State Department said the U.N. Security Council should draft sanctions unless Iran agrees to a cease-fire by the end of the week. 
Soviet officials urged that diplomacy be given more time. 
''Soviet-American cooperation is not only pos­sible, it is necessary these days," said Vladimir Petrovsky, a deputy foreign minister. 
Dispatches from Iran's news agency quoted Prime Minister Hussein Musavi as saying Iran would make its position clear soon on the Se­curity Council truce resolu­tion of July 20. Iraq has agreed to observe the resolu­tion if Iran does. 
Radio monitors said the 300,078-ton Spanish super­tanker Munguia sent a distress signal when at­tacked by one or two Iranian speedboats 55 miles north­east of Bahrain, an island emirate in the central gulf. 
Later reports said at least 
two shoulder-fired rockets 
hit the ship, causing no 
casualties among the 37 
crew members but starting 
a fire in the engine room. 
Crewmen put out the fire, and the tanker continued down the gulf loaded with 2.1 million barrels of Saudi crude oil, according to the radio reports and Spanish of­ficials. 
It was the second report in two days of an attack on a ship by Iranian speedboats in apparent retaliation for Iraq's renewed air raids. 
Gunfire from a speedboat raked a Kuwaiti container ship early Monday off the United Arab Emirates in the southern Gulf. No casualties were reported. 
The convoy's arrival at Kuwait was reported by sources close to the Kuwait Oil Tanker Co., owners ofthe 81,283-ton Surf City and 79,999-ton Chesapeake City. They are among 11 tankers given U.S. registration so the Navy can protect them. 

---~ ------------~­
Wednesday, September 2, 1987

page 2 The Observer 




In Brief 
The garbage barge is finally being emptied. The burning of the nation's best-known trash began today after one-ton bales from the garbage barge Mobro were broken apart and inspected by workers in masks and white suits. Environmental inspectors from the city and state probed the garbage with tiny rakes but found little more than paper, cardboard, wood and typical commercial garbage. The barge left New York March 22 with commercial waste from New York City and neighboring Nassau County:,pn Long Island. It toured six states and three countries before finally returning to New York at the beginning of the sum­mer and remained on the barge while local officials argued over what to do with the waste. -Associated Press 
A tree lover with a history of arrests and mental problems shot a man trimming hedges in a neighbor's yard Tuesday, and held police at bay for nine hours before being apprehended. Police threw percussion grenades and tear gas into the home of the alleged gunman, John Rohm, 41, and then entered the house, arresting Rohm without incident. Police said Rohm was a former teacher in the Indianapolis Catholic schools. The incident began when Rohm allegedly opened fire with a shotgun at Walter Kil­gore, 55, who was trimming the hedges. Police said Rohm's yard was not well tended and he may have become an­noyed by the yard work next door. -Associated Press 
Highway shootings along a 17-mile stretch of Interstate 65 near Indianapolis have police stymied. But unlike similar shootings on California freeways, no Hoosiers have been injured. Police said media coverage of the California freeway shootings may have prompted the Indiana incidents, and each of the suspects arrested in the Indiana shootings has mentioned the California cases. Another theory is that the rest stops along that stretch of the interstate have been notorious hangouts for prostitutes and other criminal elements. The !~test r~­ported shooting occurred Sunday, when an Indtanapohs man allegedly leaned out the passenger door and aimed a shotgun at the car behind him.No shots were fired in the incident. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
All class changes must be completed today at the Registrar. Any changes after today incur a $25 fine. -The Observer 
The Urban Plunge Task Force organizational meeting will be today or tomorrow_ at 4:30 P·!fl· at ~he center for Social Concerns. Anyone mterested m helpmg to organize this year's Urban Plunge may come to either meeting. For information call Dan Keusal at 239-7943. -The Observer 
A blood drive will be sponsored today by the Knights of Columbus. The entire Notre Dame community is invited to donate blood from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the K of C building. 
-The Observer 
Daily mass at Farley Hall has been changed to 10:30 
p.m. All are invited to join in the celebration of the Euc­harist. -The Observer 
The Knights of Columbus will hold an open house tonight and tomorrow night from 7 to 10 p.m. -fThe Ob­server 
Mandatory Senior class trip meet_ing for all those going to Jamaica will be held tomorrow mght at 7:30p.m. at the Alumni-Senior Club. Bring the balance due. There are still twenty spots available. -The Observer 
SMC Activities Night will take place tonight from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Representa­tives from clubs and organizations at Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and South Bend will attend. -The Observer 

Design Editor .... ............ Matt Breslin Accent Copy Editor .......... Matt Sitzer 
Layout Staff............ Mark McLaughlin Accent Layout ........ .... Rachel O'Hara ' .......................................... Jodi Ziegler Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Julie Collinge ........................................ Laura Manzi Typists ........................ Jennifer Conlon Typesetters.... . . Chris Reardon ...................................... Cathy Haynes News Editor.......... Ann Marie Durning ND Day Editor ................ Katie Gugle 
Copy Editor .................... Tim O'Keefe SMC Day Editor ........ Suzanne Devine Sports Copy Editor........ Theresa Kelly 
Tile OblerYer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
during exam and vacation periods. 'ne OblerYer is published by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­
ed for S40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing 'ne OblerYer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
'ne OblerYer is a member of 'ne Associated Preu. All reproduction rights are 
reserved. 


The Emerald City of Oz: a real awakening 


"Oh dear God, another day of differential equations and behavior management. .." 
And so I stumbled out of bed (fell, actually ­it's a loft) and dragged myself·out the door to face another day of insane classes, no alcohol, and not enough women. Sigh. 
But as I walked across North Quad out to the used garage they call the Aero Building, the Stonehenge fountain just went berserk. The water just kept spouting higher and higher, sucking me, Cavanaugh, and most of the campus with it. I floated as if I were flying. I saw Father Miceli riding by on a bicycle. "Fat­her Miceli! Father Miceli!" I screamed. But to no avail. · 
I woke up in a very strange place. All these little people were dancing, cavorting, and doing somersaults around me, singing "It's dead! It's dead!" I saw the remains of Stonehenge lying atop the remains of a brown brick building, with strange vapors and slimes oozing out. "It's dead! It's dead! The dining hall is dead!" 
And then I saw the sign, and a surge of joy transfigured my heart: OZ STATE Hook 'em Munchkins 
It was too good to be true. I was at a real university, with real parties and real women and no $300 book bills. 
The Good Fairy Dean showed up about then, and set my feet on the Golden Road to Oblivion with a wave of her Scheduling Wand. "Here's your schedule," she whispered into my ear. I looked at the schedule. "Basketweaving 101, 6 credits. Appreciation of American Humor, 3 credits. Laundry, 3 credits~ Calculus 6, 3 credits." 
"But wait, there's some mistake," I replied. "I've already taken Calculus 6." 
"Goodness me," the Dean exclaimed, " that was supposed to be Sunbathing 1. I forgot you were in our Advanced Studies program." 
And so I wandered out onto the Yellow Brick 
Frat Road, where the beer flowed in such abun­
dance that the road was stained with a brilliant 
golden hue. As I wandered down the road, 
hundreds of scantily-clad college students wan­
dered about in various states of inebriation. 
"Oops! Haven't we met somewhere before?" 
mumbled a gorgeous redhead as she staggered 
into my shoulder. "Hi! I'm Dorothy." What a 
line. What a body! "I could get used to this," 
I thought as I sampled the brew pooled by the 
side of the road, beautiful woman in hand, with 
no classes to worry about since there were ap­
parently no classrooms. 
We ran into some.dude covered with straw a 
few blocks down. "Want some weed?" he asked 
before passing out in a nearby ditch. Wow, I 
had never seen someone that comatose before. 
As we staggered along the road (I had par­
taken quite heavily of the beer by this time, 
and Dorothy kept nibbling my ear) we saw an­
other strange character. He looked like Will 
Robinson's robot friend from "Lost in Space," 
except this guy had a real face. Anyway, he 
was running towards us screaming "Look out 
for the flying monkeys!" when three frat rats 
grabbed him and stuck a tap down his throat. 
Then we went into this forest, with lots of 
dark corners kinda like the other side of St. 
Mark Mclaughlin 
Projects Manager 
Mary's Lake after parietals. Well, that's what Dorothy had on her mind, at any rate, though I was in no mood for it after the third time she forgot my name. All of a sudden, this hairy beast staggered out from behind a tree. 
"Do you know the cube root of pi?" it whined. 
Dorothy seemed annoyed at the interruption, though I was rather thankful for the chance to foist her off on the unsuspecting coward. But lo and behold, all these flying monkeys des­cended upon us. "That's what I get for drinking Old Mil," was my only thought as all three of us were carried off to a huge green building. 
"WHAT ARE YOUR QUALIFICATIONS?" boomed the face on the large video unit placed in front of us. "Oh no," I thought, "a job inter­view." 
"I speak three languages, can design nuclear reactors, and I'm eager to work for your com­pany!" said the coward, with this really gross smile. 
"WILL $50,000 BE ENOUGH TO START?" the nameless entity exclaimed, obviously pleased. 
"Of course," said the coward. It apparently was enough for Dorothy, too, judging by the speed with which she disengaged herself from my arm and followed the rich little snot out the door. 
"AND YOU?" shouted the face on the video, looking suspiciously like Max Headroom. 
By this time I was tired of the whole Oz State thing. No intelligent conversation, no Stonehenge, no real classes, and certainly no job. Since all this was looking rather familiar, I figured the obvious way out was worth a shot. And so I clicked my Nikes together and said ... 
"There's no place like Dome. There's no place like Dome. There's no place like Dome." 
Polyrazzmatazz! Back I was at Notre Dame, lying out on North Quad in the pouring rain, ten minutes late for class and hungover like a corpse. Some hallucination. 
Thank God for differential equations. 



Wednesday, September 2, 1987 

The Observer page 3 

H PC decides on fund allocation 
By NATASHA WILSON 
News Staff 
The Hall Presidents' Council voted on the distribution of hall activity funds at its first meeting of the school year Tuesday night at Grace Hall. 
Under the approved plan, the $12,000 allocated by the Office of Student Activities will be dis­tributed equally among the dorms. 
Each dorm will get $500, the same amount each received last year. The money can only be used for non-alcoholic events and is not intended for off-campus students. 
By approving the $500 plan, the HPC turned down two other proposals to distribute the funds according to the popula­tion of each dorm. 
One proposition called for the equal division of the funds in proportion to the number of stu­dents in each dorm (less than $2 per resident>. The other set a flat fee per dorm (approximately $200-$250) and an equal portion ($1) per dorm. student. 
The presidents of the small dorms repeatedly voiced con­cern over these methods, con­
tending  the  proposals dis­ 
criminated  against  their  
dorms.  

"For the past three years we 
have relied on the flat rate for SYRs, study breaks and other weekly activities for our dorm," said Jeff Dorschner, president of St. Edward's Hall. "If we had less, we would be able to have only a few social events each month." 
Jamie Froman, head of Car­roll, agreed, "smaller dorms need a little help." 
However, Terry Lally of Dil­lon argued that "for larger dorms $500 barely covers a cookout." 
Halfway through the coun­cil's debate on the allocation, HPC co-chairman Bob Daley requested the group "remem­ber that the money is going 
toward  the  whole  student  
body."  
After  some  discussion,  the  

council voted and agreed to fol­low the precedent of $500 per dorm. 
In addition to this income, the residence halls utilize internal revenue gained from student fees to host picnics and various hall parties. Each dorm, however, charges a different amount, according to its own needs, the HPC members said. 
In other business, the HPC unanimously approved the Stu­dent Activities Board's deci­sion to change its name to the Student Union Board. 


A., 
The Observei>Susy Hernandez

I. 
Members of tho Tae Kwon Do Club demonstrate their prowness during activities night, hoping to attract new recruits. 

Ban~~ operating in LaFortune 
good-faith bids the first time around, and those who were too low were probably not inter­ested to begin with." 
Officials of St. Joseph Bank said they would like the branch in LaFortune be profitable within the first year to year and a half of operating on campus, according to Bart Nagy, assis­tant vice president of St. Joseph Bank. 
The branch has already opened 1,000 new student ac­counts, and several Notre Dame halls have opened busi­ness accounts with the bank. 
The main reason the Univer­sity allowed the bank in LaFor­tune was for the convenience that it offers the students and faculty at Notre Dame, the Uni­versity said. 
Until the addition of the St. Joseph branch, the only other financial institution located on campus was the Notre Dame Credit Union located on Douglas Rd. The Notre Dame Credit Union was created in 1941 to serve the Notre Dame Community, according to Ruth Kelly, president and chair­woman of the board. The Notre Dame Credit Union is in no way connected with the University. But, Kelly said she "was disappointed we were not selected (for the Lafortune space) since we have served the University for 47 years." 
In 1983 the Notre Dame Credit Union installed auto­matic teller machines on campus at a cost of nearly one­half million dollars. According 

to Kelly, in 1982 a verbal agree­ment was made with Father Joyce and Brother Kieran Ryan that only Notre Dame Credit Union automatic teller Mac­hines would be allowed on campus. Lyphout said he did not know of such an agreement ever being made. 
Notre Dame Credit Union, however, has had no drop-off in business because of the St. Joseph's Branch opening, ac­cording to Kelly. They have lost only about 20 accounts and have opened about 1,000 fresh­man accounts. Kelly said no new tactics are planned to com­bat the competition. "We are going along as always and mar­keting a little more." 
The new bank's regular hours are Monday thru Friday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., and Saturday 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
~AMERICAN 

<fCANCER 
~SOCIETY'~ 
We know that a cheap calculator can cost you blood, sweat and time. 
Investing in a Hewlett-Packard cal­culator, on the other hand, can save you time and again. 
HP calculators not only have better func­tions. They function better. Without stick­ing keys and bad connections. 
Through October 31, you can get the cream of the calcula­tors at a non-fat price. 
We're cutting $10 off the HP-12C. That buys you more built­in functions than any­one else's financial calculator. 
And we're giving away a free Advantage Module, a $49 value, with every HP-41 Advanced Scientific calculator you buy. This 12K-byte plug­in, menu-driven ROM was designed spe­cially for students. 
So drop by your campus bookstore and compare HP calcula­tors with the rest. By midterm, you'll see what a deal this is. 
,---------,FREE $49 HP-41 I ADVANTAGE MODULE I 
I w1th purchase of Hl'-~1. Pur-I 
1 chase must be made between I AJgust 15, 1987. and October :n. I
I 1~•87. See your local HI' dealer 
I for details and official redemp-II tion form. Rebate or free Mod-I ule will ht• sent in !i-Hweeks. 
I OR $10 OFF AN HP-12C I
L _________ _j 

we neverstop
askh1g 

By LIZ PANZICA Copy Editor 
St. Joseph Bank has opened a branch in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The branch opened during the first week of classes, and an automatic teller machine will be installed within the week, according to a bank em­ployee. 
Last year, the University solicited bids :from banks and credit unions interested in 
FJ/;. HEWLETT 
~e. PACKARD 
operating in the newly­renovated LaFortune. 
The project was then tabled until after Father Edward Mal­loy became president of the University. 
In June, St. Joseph Bank was notified that it was awarded the space. 
James Lyphout, assistant vice president business affairs, said the University used the same bids rather than solicit­ing new bids. "We felt (the financal institutions) gave us 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1987 

The Observer 

would like to announce an 



OPEN HOUSE 
on Thursday, September 3, at 8:00 p.m. in the Montgomery Room of the LaFortune Student Center (formerly the Little Theater) 
Presentation -Office Tours -Question and Answer 
r 
r 
If your name is ... 
Or if you have any interest in reporting, editing, 
producing, photographing, designing advertising· 
copy, meeting people, and having a generally 
great time, 
Come join the action! 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 page 5
The Observer 



Police clash with student!:; as 
re-op~en 
Successive governments have cooperated with business since South Korea's "economic miracle" began nearly two decades ago, virtually banning strikes and keeping wages low. 
The leadership meeting Wed­nesday was the first between Roh Tae-woo, chief of the gov­ernment Democratic Justice Party, and Kim Young-sam, of the main oppos:ttion Reunifica­tion Democratic Party, since Chun made his concessions. 
They had planned the meeting for Monday, but Kim postponed it, demanding prog­ress on demands for release of all political prisoners still in detention. Opposition party of­ficials said discussions were held on the issue. 
More than 10,000 Seoul taxi drivers struck on Tuesday. City officials said the action in­volved 26 percent of the capi­tal's drivers, and disruption was minimal since most people use buses or the subway. 
Labor leade1·s at Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. in the southern port of Ulsan, the country's largest shipbuilding yard, ordered a slowdown by the 24,000 workers after wage negotiations. 


Korean universities 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea Universities reopened for the fall term Tuesday and imme­diately became battlegrounds for police and anti-government students. One campus fight with rocks, firebombs and tear gas lasted three hours. 
As students demanded the ouster of President Chun Doo­hwan, leaders of the govern­ment party and the opposition worked on a timetable for a presidential election and peaceful transition when Chun's term ends in February. 
Labor unrest that began in July continued to cripple the export-based economy, and hundreds of strikes for higher pay were in progress Tuesday. Prime Minister Kim Chung-yul said workers had been short­changed in South Korea's eco­nomic boom, and the govern­ment would seek greater benefits for them. 
South Korea's trade surplus in August was only one-quarter of the total for August 1986, the government reported. 
Fighting between protesters and riot squads began on the huge Seoul National University campus after a rally by 4,000 students. Police fired tear gas and charged behind shields during the three-hour battle. 
Students hurled stones and threw firebombs that exploded in orange showers of blazing gasoline, shouting "Let's finish the military dictatorship!'' and "Down with the murder regime!'' 
The South Korean news agency Yonhap said about 10,000 students in all demon­strated at 19 other schools across the country. It did not say whether those protests were violent. 
Radical student leaders have vowed to topple Chun's govern­ment, and the size of the Seoul National University rally indi­cated strong support. 
Students traditionally are in the vanguard of protest in South Korea. They led weeks of demonstrations that caused Chun to agree June 30 to oppo­sition demands for direct presidential elections and other democratic reforms. 
Another change promised was less government control of unions. Within days, workers in transport, mining and the major export industries began striking for higher pay, better working conditions and free unions. 



r··· 
IThe clothes make the 
man... 
HAPPY
•
i BELATED! 
•
: Love the Other Quint 
~....... ~
......... ......... 


BCAC 

Black Cultural Arts Council 
announces 

First General Meeting 

of 1987-88 
Where: Notre Dame Room 1st floor LaFortune 
When: Thurs, Sept. 3 8:00pm 

The Ubservellt:iusy Hernandez

Study Break 
Tom Mlck and Mallnl Chablanl read and relax on the fleldhouse mall. After gloomy weather last week, clear skies and cool temper­atures the past few days have made the outdoors much more hospitable. 

SoviE!ts seek Pershing removal 
Associated Pre:;;s withdrawing 72 Pershing 1-A warheads from West Germany. 
WASHINGTON, D.C.-The So-But U.S. officials said the viet Union on Tuesday called warheads were not subject to on the United States to clear negotiations with the Soviets away the "last obstacles" to an because the missiles that carry agreement banning medium-them belong to the West Ger­range nuclear missiles by mans. 

The orgnnizatio~ ~~n~~his p(~. 
"We have said consistently that third-country systems are not part of the negotiations," White House spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said in Santa Bar­bara, Calif., near President Reagan's ranch. "We stand by that position." 
A State Department official, who demanded anonymity, said the warheads would be withdrawn from West Ger­many only after the missiles were dismantled. 
West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl offered last Wed­nesday to scrap the Pershing 1-A missiles, which have a range of 465 miles, after a U.S.­Soviet treaty is ratified and put into effect. 
Both the United States and the Soviet Union welcomed the offer as a step forward. But it is not clear whether Kohl's schedule was acceptable to Moscow or posed a problem in completing the treaty. 
At a news conference here Tuesday, a Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Vladimir F. Petrovsky, insisted on removal of the warheads, which are un­der U.S. control. 
"If the United States would agree to remove the 72 nuclear warheads, the last obstacles to the double-zero option would be removed," Petrovsky said. 
The Soviet official referred to the dismantling of two categories of intermediate­range missiles in what would be Reagan's first nuclear arms-control agreement with Moscow. 
In all, 332 U.S. missiles would be withdrawn from West Ger­many, Britain, Italy and Bel­gium while the Soviets scrapped 442 rockets aimed at Western Europe and an addi­tional 121 missiles targeted on China and Japan. 

year's Urban Plunge Task Force will be: 
Wednesday, September 2 or Thursday, September 3 
(you may choose either day). 
Both meetings are at 4:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Questions? Call Dan Keusal 239-794~. 
\.-'Z 
m 

11Follow 1the Fighting Irish to U of M" September 11, 12, 13 
Plymouth 
• 20 minutes to the Stadium
HiltonInn 
][ 
• Newly renovated 
• Indoor pool & recreation area 

$j9900 plus tax 

3 days & 2 night package 


For Reservations Call 313-459-4500, ext. 624 
Plymouth Hilton Inn 14707 Northville Road P1ymouth, Michigan 48170 
-------------~--~-~~~--------~--~-----~-~------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 2, 1987 

It looks like these students are just lounging on of the powerhouses of lnterhall football, hopes the porch of Sorin, but they are actually getting to finally capture tne championship this year. ready for football practice. Sorln, perenlally one 
•

States VIe for atom-smasher 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Flush with optimism, state officials on Tuesday rushed in their proposals to the federal gov­ernment to landlhe "super col­
r lider," a $4.4 billion atom smas­
r 
r. her that will mean 3,000 jobs 
r for the winner. To hear them talk, all the 25 competitors were bound to win. Some states made a big pro­duction out of it, either in Wash­ington or at home. Others said little and kept details secret un­til after the 2 p.m. Wednesday deadline for getting proposals to the Energy Department. A dozen Texas officials held the first news conference of the day's several at the depart­ment and elsewhere after delivering 60 cardboard car­tons of documents in a station wagon and a rented van. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, gave one reason for secrecy -­keeping competitors from matching an attractive induce­ment. His state plans a $200 million joint venture with utilities to supply electricity at an un­
matchable 1 cent per kilowatt­hour or less, he said. "It's too late" for other states to beat that, he said, although several are stressing their low power costs. 
Congress banned considera­tion of direct financial incen­tives to prevent states from getting into a bidding war, but did permit states to contribute to site improvements with roads, sewers and other work. States that want to offer more were asked to submit details in a sealed envelope to be opened onJy if they won, and several were doing so. 
For Texas, site improve­ments could add up to $700 mil­lion, Gramm said. 
Texas officials' optimism was echoed by their competi­tors from one end of the country to the other : 
-New York Lt. Gov. Stanley Lundine told reporters in New York his state's three sites were "technically sound, finan­cially superior and politically attractive." 
-Joe Allbaugh, an aide to Oklahoma Gov. Henry Bel­lmon, said in Oklahoma City he was convinced "that we have probably the best technical site that is being offered .up 
anywhere in the United States." 
-Arizona project coordinator Ian McPherson called his state's two proposals "superb" and said in Phoenix, "We hope that now the issue will be laid to rest that Arizona simply does not have the werewithal or the expertise to proceed.'' 
At least nine states were ex­pected to deliver their solicita­tions during the day, and three more were expected on Wed­nesday Others among the 24 states expected to compete turned in their documents ear­lier, shunning fanfare --Utah, for example, sent 36 boxes by Express Mail. 
Almost all the states stressed that their sites offered easy construction, quick access to major universities and air­ports, and an attractive life­style. 
Congress has not yet made a decision on whether to build the supercollider, but it is widely supported for the non-polluting jobs, prestige and spinoff busi­nesses it will bring to the win­ning state. 
The project has no military application whatsoever and no 
forseeable practical applica-------------------------,
tion beyond training young scientists. Some scientists are 
KNOLLWOOD
worried that its vast cost will drain federal funds from other 
worthy research. 

WANTED: 
Bass (acoustic or electric) and Keyboard players interested in playing with N.D. Jazz Bands. 
Contact A.S.A.P.: Fr. George at 239-7136. 
CLUB SPECIALS 
WEDNESDAY Cross the border with Corona $1 Tequila Sunrise $1 THURSDAY Import Draft $1 Bartles & Jaymes $1 FRIDAY LUNCH!!! Open from 12 noon 'til 2pm 
1.0. Required 
---------------------------------------~ 
Bagel-eater busted 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD, Conn. -A federal inmate was removed from a halfway house and returned to prison to complete his sentence, all because he ate a poppy seed bagel. 
It seems Anthony Clarizio's gastronomic gaffe violated a new U.S. Bureau of Prison policy written because the seeds alter drug test results. 
Medical experts say the ef­fect of poppy seeds on urinalysis tests is well known, and legal experts say the gov­ernment has a right to test in­mates for drugs, but some civil libertarians argue the policy is arbitrary and unfair. 
Public Defender Richard Reeve said Clarizio, who lives in Stratford, was released to a Hartford halfway house about four months ago to complete his sentence for loan-sharking and extortion. Clarizio, who pleaded guilty to the charges two years ago, is scheduled to be released Oct. 1. 
Reeve said Clarizio and a friend ate bagels taken to the friend's house in Stratford by a neighbor Aug. 9. The bagel contained poppy seeds, accor­ding to the manufacturer. 
When Clarizio returned to the halfway house and routinely gave a urine sample, he told house officials there could be a problem because he may have eaten some poppy seeds, Reeve said Tuesday. 
Nevertheless, Clarizio, who is in his 50s, was sent back to federal prison in Danbury on Aug. 24, five days after failing a urine test, to complete his sentence. 
"I think it's an absurd rule, and it smacks of the grave dangers of falsely imprisoning somebody," William Olds, ex­ecutive director of the Connec­ticut Civil Liberties Union, said Tuesday. "It's not always pos­sible for somebody to know they were eating poppy seeds." 
Pyung Yoon, of Yale Univer­sity medical school's depart­ment of toxicology, said urine tests cannot distinguish be­tween exposure to poppy seeds and exposure to heroin or other illegal drugs made from the poppy plant. 
"Generally, drug test policies take that into account and ask a person whether they've eaten something of that nature," said Allan Adler, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington, D.C. "If so, then the drug test is put off until that's out of the person's sys­tem. It (Bureau of Prisons policy) seems to be manifestly unfair." 
But Robert Hassen, spokes­man for the Danbury prison, said all prisoners allowed to complete their terms in halfway houses sign a state­ment promising not to consume poppy seeds. 
"He's got to go over it with his correctional counselor," Hassen said. "I would find it hard to believe that anyone would not read his furlough release." 
Help wanted 
2 part time 
positions available 
-1 morning; 1 afternoolt; -weekends involved -will pay minimum wage up to $3.75 -apply in person ask for John 277-1541 
16633 Baywood Ln Granger right off Adams Rd. 
page 7 

Board discusses safety, library hours 
By CHRISTINE MC CANN 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance discussed campus safety and library hours at its first meeting of the year Tues­day evening. 
Because of the recent in­crease in crime affecting the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame com­munity, Vice President Smith Hashagen said the Board might form a special committee. It would "launch a publicity cam­paign to encourage awareness of personal responsibility,'' she said. 
President Eileen Hetterich asked all students to ''please keep a watchful eye out on campus, even for those you might not know." 

Th'3 ObservettSusy Hernandez

Marchln' Irish 
Hours at the Cushwa­
The Marching Band gathers outside of Washing­band will be stepping out evt!ry weekday so they Leighton Library were also dis­
ton Hall, getting ready for another practice. The can whip up the crowd this Fall. cussed. Last year, students 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Looking for JPW executive committee. Applications available in the Student Activities Office or from Noel Murtha in 429 P. W. Due Sept II. 

PAR 3: 
Former N.D. student jazz band 
Saturday, Sept. 5 
4:00 
Fieldhouse Mall 
sored by SUB 


Beafull-time student andapart-timeRanger. 
If \ou'rc high I\ compctiti\·c and in top ph\sical condition. \UU might want to become part of R.anger ( :hallenge in the :\rmy R.cscn c Otticers"lraining ( :orps. 
Its a program of intense mental and ph,sical challenges. :\nd if you're among the best. vou could represent your mllegc and vour cadre during the national competitions at the :\rmy R.OTCs summer .-\th anced Camp. 
R.angcr Challenge is anything hut cas\. But it is the most rigorous. rewarding and exciting cxpenencc on campus. 
'li> lind out more ahout enrolling in :\rmv R.OT< :. and for mmplctc details on the :\nm RO' I'< :s Ranger Challenge. talk to your Professor of 1\lilitarv Science. toda\. 
INTERESTED??? CALL CAPTAIN DOMINGO 239-6264 


Jeviish leaders discuss Walldheim visit with Pope 
Associated Press 
CASTEL GANDOLFO, Italy -Jewish leaders on Tuesday told Pope John Paul II of their anger over his audience with Kurt Waldheim, and the Vatican said it would issue a major document on anti-Semitism and the Holocaust. 
The Jewish representatives termed their historic meeting with the Pope a success, al­though the pontiff did not di­rectly respond to their anger over his June 25 audience with the Austrian president, alleged to have been involved with deporting Jews during World War II. 
The Pope also did not respond to the Jews' questions on the Vatican's lack of 
Ir----------------,MC)RRISSEY LOAN FUND 
I 

1 No-,rV open 11:30 to 12:30 
1  Monday thru Friday  
1  in basement of LaFortune  
I  
I  Loans of up to  $200  
I  for all N.D. Students  
I  1°/o interest  

L----------------~
NAIJGLES® 272-5455 
TO YOUR DORM! '•
:> 

:t= 
1­
TACO'S 
Crisp Taco
~ 
Soft Taco Fajita Taco,...,,., Macho Taco 
Q 
:::1 0 

= 
:t
.,. 

N 
BURRITO'S 
Bean Burrito 
Meat Burrito 
Combo Burrito 
Cheese Burrito 
Make II Macho or Wet Additional .75 

:::1 SALADS 
Salad Platter 1-liJstada Grande 
:c= 
~ 
Q 
NEW PLATTERS 

:::1= E1chilada 0 S:>ft Taco :t Ranchero•
.,. 

Fajita-Steak•N 
1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 
1.50 2.25 2.00 1.75 
2.75 3.25 
3.00 3.00 3.00 3.75 
NITELY 5 • 12 

"0\)~~\) 
:::1 
:t= 
1­
~~ 
cg 
== 
::Jo 
~~ 
N-l 
= :c 
c: 

I I 
I I I 
I II 
II 
(lrcludea &ons-C~ Salad & Entru) "II1/h &xu o.am 
FOR LARGER APPEillES DINNERS AVAILABLE 4.75 


'1-&. ~~ 
0~~ 
NACHOS 

Nachos & Cheese 1.25 Macho Nachos 2.25 Beans & Chees, 
FROM THE GRILL 
Naugleburger 2.00 01' Fashion 1.50 Chicken Sandwich 1.75 Macho Fries 1.00 
DRINKS 

Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Slice, Root Beer, Dr. Pepper, Lemonade, Ice Tea 
Uters 1.00 
Milk Shakes 1.25 
501 Dlxleway North Roseland 
272-5455 
Plus Tox on Above Prices 
6.00 Minimum Order 
circulated petitions which requested that library hours be extended. But no formal pro­posal was made to the library board, Hetterich said. 
A student board will be formed in order to meet with the library administration so that a written proposal might be discussed, Hetterich added. 
Further business included the granting of official club status to the Baptist Student Union; the suggestion that Saint Mary's might make a special attempt to help com­memorate .the celebration of the Marion Year; and a listing of new Board of Governance of­fice hours, which are: 
Monday: 1-4; 6:30-9 p.m. 
Tuesday: 6-10 p.m. 
Wednesday: 1-4; 6-9 p.m. 
The of(ice is located on the third floor of the Haggar Col­lege Center. 
diplomatic relations with Is­rael. 
The Waldheim issue was taken up in detail in talks be­tween the Jewish delegation and Vatican officials in the past two days. 
"This encounter was a his­toric one in a very positive way," said Henry Siegman of the American Jewish Congress. "It was the first time the head of the Roman Catholic church engaged in genuine conversa­tions with representatives of the Jewish community." 
Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, chairman of the International Jewish Committee for Inter­religious Consultations, said after the papal audience that the relationship between Jews and the Vatlean was raised "to a new plateau:" 
A joint communique said the Vatican delegation in the meetings Monday and Tuesday defended the audience with Waldheim but acknowledged that the church understood 
Jewish  concerns  over  the  
meeting  with  the  Austrian  
president.  

Correction 
The Tuesday issue of the Ob­server incorrectly reported the date of Saint Mary's Ac­tivities Night. It will actu­ally take place tonight from 8 to 10 p.m. at Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
WORK FOR YOURSELF 
As a campus representative you'll be responsible lor placing advertising materials on bulletin boards and working on marketing programs lor clients such as American ExprBBB, Boston University, Eurall, and vartous movie companies, among others. Part-lime work, choose your own hours. No sales. Many ol our rops stay with us long alter graduation. rr you are sell-motivated, hard­
working, and a bit ol an 
entrepreneur, call or write lor 
more lnlonnation to: 
AMERICAN PASSAGE 
NETWORK 
6211 W. HOWARD STREET 
CHICAGO, IL 60648 
1(800) 221·!11142 or 
(312) 647-6860 
CHICAGO DALLAS LOS ANGELES NEW YORK SEATTLE 

-·-------------------. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, September 2, 1987 
Reflections abound for all to consider 
You are awakened by the chirping of the birds and the gentle sunlight shining through your window which warms your face. You keep your eyes closed while trying to remember what you are going to do today. Was I going to the beach, or was it the tennis court? Oh, well, you think, as long as it's summer, I don't care. Suddenly, your thoughts of a lazy summer day are rudely shat­tered by the blare of your alarm clock. You open your eyes, realize you are in your dorm room at Notre Dame and must hurry to the dining hall to get the last of the semi-hot food before shuf­fling off to class. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 
Welcome back, domers and domettes! I'm sure you've had a lot of fun trying to jump start your brains for the past few weeks and you're putting off anything that requires serious brain power until Letterman moves back to 12:30. 
Since my brain is still in the summer mode and can't really handle a coherent, linear (even that word gives me pain) article, I think I'm just gonna throw out some random thoughts left over from the summer. That way, you don't have to use precious brain waves to follow one of my usual articles. 
ODDS AND SODS. The women's· movement took a giant step backward this summer with the performances of Donna Rice, Fawn Hall, Jessica Hahn and Tammy Faye Bakker. Of course, with Ollie and the boys, Uncle Ronnie Reagan, Mssrs. Bakker and Swaggert and Sean Penn, the men didn't do too well, either. I'm sure all of Mr. Madon­na's fellow inmates were real inter­ested to see just how tough he really was...Lifeguarding is the ultimate summer job...Just between you and me, I preferred "Full Metal Jacket" to 
r r "Platoon"...Giannetto's has changed to Club 23. I hope that's the only thing 
~ that will change about the place. 
r SPORTS. It will be the Tigers, Royals, Cardinals and Giants for the pennants and the Cards beating Detroit 
f 
in the Series.. .I'm sure the Seattle 
, r 
r Seahawk vets greeted the greedy Brian Bosworth to camp with open 
r arms...Notre Dame will go 8-3 (Michigan, Penn State, Miami) with a bowl victory, but Oklahoma will win the national title. Next year, however, 
Doonesbury 
/A£I..L, THIS ISN7 HEY, CMON, QUIT& WHAT I MARciA, IT'S HAl? IN MINI? A NICE (lJM-FOR. l?INNCR., PROM/513!
"\ 

the Irish should make a serious run at the national crown. Sorry, Tim. With a great team around him and an awful lot of carries under his belt, Gaston Green of UCLA will win the Heis­man...Another date for your calendar, November 21. It will be National Couch Potato Day with ND-Penn State, Ohio State-Michigan, USC-UCLA, AND Nebraska-Oklahoma all on national television. Start popping the popcorn. SEX AND DRUGS AND ROCK AND 
ROLL. Michael Jackson's back. Hip, Hip, ah, forget it. Top five songs this summer (in no particular order): "Just Like Heaven" by the Cure, "Alex Chil­ton" by The Replacements, "La Bamba" by Los Lobos (but the original is still better), "Isn't it Midnight" by Fleetwood Mac, "4th of July" by X. Hey, if Casey Casem can do it. ..New ND fight song, "I Want Your Sex" by George Michael. No thanks, George...Summer of Love II: Sgt. Pepper's on CD, The Dead in the top forty and touring again and Starship (Jefferson Airplane, maybe?) with a number one hit. Well, two out of three ain't bad...How could Rolling Stone list the top one-hundred albums of the last twenty years and not include Elton John's "Goodbye Yellow Brick Road"? U2's "War"? The Smith's "The Smiths"? Inexcusable.. They did, however, have enough sense to include three Velvet Underground albums. 
LAWYERS, GUNS AND MONEY. The new three stooges: Robert, Ollie and John...Ollie's first endorsement: the American Express card. "Do you know me?" ...Ollie North, American Hero. An oxymoron in the truest sense of the word...Who would they have blamed if Casey hadn't died? .. .I'd like to see Ollie's lawyer go up against Judge Wap­ner...Look at John Poindexter. Would you take his advice? I'm not even going to talk about his name...Fawn Hall should take the first royalty check from her inevitable book deal and get her teeth fixed ...Even though the hearings pre-empted the soaps, hardcore soap addicts still got their share of deceit, treachery and sex...Ollie's favorite band: The Grateful Shread ...Someone should strap Ollie down and force him to watch "Platoon" "Full Metal Jacket" and "Hamb~rger Hill" one after the other. Maybe then he'd get the hint. . .I think it's awfully funny all this happened during the 200th anniver­sary of the Constitution. DOME SWEET DOME. Those RV's be­
NOBO!?Y'5 
CAN I

tf)(}KfNGAT 
HELP

l/5, ZONK&R. L£T'SNOTt'YfAKC 
ANOTHeR. BIG... 
I 

hind the Joyce ACC (JACC?!) look real attractive...Ditto for the North Dining Hall. With the fences and trenches, it looks even more like a prison mess hall...After the renaming, does the li­brary become the Teddy 'Brar?.. .I knew I was back in South Bend when I didn't see the sun for a week...Boy, did I miss Lt. Sam Walsh and his Crimestoppers commercials...Ditto for Dick Addis' weather word for the day...How come "Star Trek" isn't on Channel34 anymore? ...How come my mom never makes Chinese stir-fry veggies or salmon patties with creamed pea sauce?...On the positive side, "Calvin and Hobbes" looks great in The Observer...We should have no prob­lem camping out for U2 or Bowie tix ticket lines. Talk about ex­perience...Mark down September 23 on your calendars, We get the day off! That's right, a genuine, honest-to­goodness holiday. "A holiday at Notre Dame?" you ask. Yep, we will honor Fr. Malloy's inauguration. How come we don't honor laborers, Columbus, vet­erans, Martin Luther King, George Washington, et al.? I guess they just aren't important enough...The clas­srooms in Cushing are much too hot. .. .I've seen more Seth Thomas clocks in dorm rooms than clas­srooms...Cheer up! It's only a month and a half till October break...R.I.P Howard Hall. 
Tom Varnum is a junior English major 
after fighting bookstore and football and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
~----------------------------­
P.O. Box Q 
Constitution does allow for change 
Dear Editor: 

In response to Kevin Smant's "Congress should heed its limits, " I feel that the problems posed should be looked at from a non-partisan stand­point (though the article was clearly written from a conservative vantage point). 
Since Mr. Smant's field of study is history, he should realize that our Con­stitution was written as a flexible docu­ment, therefore there are provisions in it for change. If the executive branch's "hands are tied" by a constitutional law, the executive branch can (legally) attempt to change that law through amendment and thus free its hands. On the other hand if the administration chooses to disregard the law altogether, then should we just overlook this and say it was in the country's best interest or should we question the judgement of the people in charge? If we choose to ignore this infraction of the rules, shouldn't we then ignore the Constitu­tion altogether as a meaningless docu­ment since its laws do not apply to the executive branch of our government? 
My second point is that the Congress is an elected body just as the president is an elected offical, therefore they are both obligated to carry out the will of 
the people. So who has the correct 

Garry Trudeau 
States are sympathetic with the con­tras, which may have been true directly after Oliver North's testimony, but has since then dropped off. 
Lastly, I would like to point out that there have been numerous reports that the people of Nicaragua do not even want the contras to "free them." While the Sandinistas have been trying to build up the country with numerous so­cial programs, the contras are content to bomb villages and harm the civilian population whom they are attempting to "free." 
The truth is the United States gov­ernment (at least the executive branch) is supporting the Contras merely because they are anti­communist even though they violate more civil rights than their "oppres­sors" do. If the contras could show that they had the support of the Nicaraguan people, I would advocate funding to the contras but as it stands now I support the elected government of Nicaragua. 
The true question is should we allow our elected officials to break the laws of our country. If we do, we may end up like the Soviets-the posessors of an ignored constitution. We could end up like the very people from which we are trying to protect ourselves. 
Eric J. Waffner Morrissey Hall 

Quote of the Day 
"The only difference between a rut and a grave is their di­mensions." 
Ellen Glasgow 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief.. . . ................ Kevin Becker Business Manager............ . ....... Brtan P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.. ... Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager.... ..... David Culligan News Editor.. ... . . ......... . .... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager...... . ..... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ....... ....................................... Jim Riley Production Manager..... .. Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor... . ..................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager....... .... Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sp011s Editor.. . . ......... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager........ .. . ........ Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ........ Michael Naughton Controller................. . ........... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Ed1tor.. . .. Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Photo Editor.. . ........ Jim Carroll space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 

-----~-------------­
Acc~ent 

page 9

Wednesday, September 2, 1987 
~ Taking a :year 'on' 
'To all the girls I've loved' 
G
ood morning Notre Dame Courtney: Huh? sandbox. You were also very and welcome to "Women In Right. Yeah. Okay our third attached to your mother. My Life" the talk show where guest is Peggy 1\elly. Peggy fell Jeeez Mary, give me a break. women from my past and fu­In love with me last year but I We were only six years old! All 

.. 
ture share their Intimate blew her off and even used six year olds are ve:ry attached feelings about me, 1\rls her. How are you today Peg? to their mothers and all six Murphy, with you, the viewing Peggy: I'm just peachy you year olds like to play in the sandbox! Mary: You told me that four­
teen years ago. Then you poured sand down my dress. It was a gesture of affection. 
Krls Murphy 
Altered 
Mary: It was a gesture of 
weirdness. That was the only audience, in order to inflate my heartless scumbag. I hope you way you knew how to com­already gigantic ego. drop dead. municate. 
Today we'll be talking with Same old Peg, what a kidder. Mrs. X: Why don't you ever four women, all of whom have Our fourth guest is my future take me out to dinner? You're played an Important role In my wife Mrs. X. She'll be nagging ashamed of mel You don't love heterosexual development. Our me and hounding me into an me! first guest Is Mary Lawrence, early grave througout the show What the... Mrs. X. it's not my first girlfriend from back In so be watching for that folks. your turn yet. Pleas.e just hold 
kindergarten. Say "hi," Mary. Mrs. X: I have a headache on for a few minutes. Let's turn 
Mary: Hello 1\ris, I'm glad to already. Who let the dog out? the questioning ov1:r to Peggy. be here. Do you still have an Cool out Mrs. X. It's not your Peggy: I hate you. You used oral fixation? turn yet. Let's start with Mary me. Die. 
What? Hold on a minute first. Do you remember when Mary, the questioning hasn't you gave me a toy dump truck We're not going to get then. How about I take you out Mrs. X:Waaaaaaahhh! I'm call­begun yet. Our next guest is for my sixth birthday Mary? anywhere like this l'eg, maybe to dinner to make It up to you? Ing my lawyer! I get the kids! I 
Courtney Myers. Courtney Is Mary: Yes I do Krls. It was you should take a valium or Peggy: Suck air Romeo. I get the dinette set! Incredibly beautiful but totally symbolic of our relationship. something... hope you get hit by a bus. Courtney: I still love you 1\rls. Inaccessible. I was In love with Even back then you were very Peggy: There's a thin line Well ladies and gentlemen, What? My dreams have come 
her for years just like 1500 selfish. It was always takel between love and hate you that's a big NO if I've ever true! Are you serious? other guys but she Ignored me. takel take!. You were never will­cretin and I crossed that line In heard one. If that's the way Courtney: Nope. Just kidding. How are you these days Ing to sit down and work out a big way. I hope all of your you're going to be Peggy we'll AAMuuuuuuu­Courtney? our problems and you were children look like Don Knotts! have to turn the questioning gggggggghhhhrrrrrrrr1rrrrrrrr r 
Courtney: Are you talking to only interested In one thing. Look Peg just relax. I'm sorry over to Courtney... Hello? Courtney: Wow. I hate to me? Sex? I hurt you. I was an insensitive Courtney? watch a late adolescent male I still love you Courtney. Mary: No, playing In the jerk but I've grown a lot since Courtney: What's that noise? have a full-scale physical and Courtney, you're on TV. I'm mental breakdown. I'm outta 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 1\ris Murphy and I'm interview­here. Somebody get him a 
Ing you as one of the many valium. women who have made me Peggy: Hey dlrtbag, your tie what I am today. is crooked. I hope you strangle 
Mrs. X: I made you what you on it. are today! Without me you'd VOICE OVER: Tune In next still be working in a STOP and week for another edition of GO in New Jersey! I want an­"Women In My Life" In which other child! I want a divorce! 1\rls Interviews his Aunt Flo, 
Look Mrs. X. we're not Madonna and the Avon lady married yet. You're my future who seduced him this summer. wife. Spell It F-U-T-U-R-E. Walt, Coming up next "Vanna White: I spelled that wrong. Spell that Up Close and Barely Clothed" a A-0-0-N-Y instead. four hour docu-drama on NBC. 

PAUL GLUCKOW One often expects peace ac­reatures writer tlvists to be naive, self-righteous or extremist --1\ullk w;ue many seniors con-and Yaskulka quietly avoid 
template taking a year off these stereotypes with their after graduation, two graduates candid manner and willingness of Wilson College are conduct-to consider viewpoints which lng a project that Is somewhat might seem to conflict with more ambitious. their own. 
This week Dominic 1\ullc and Your goals are very am-David Yaskulka visited the bltlous, how do you react to :'iotre Dame campus on the last charges of being too ldealls· leg of a cross-country bicycle tic? journey and educational pro­gram which they call the I think that most people who Ouadlno project. attend our workshops or get a 
Though it is less than one chance to talk to us might per-. year old, the project h~s ceive us as somewhat practical already been called the nation's idealists. We have ideals, but most Important and successful we're looking at a world with endeavor concerning alterna-certain political conditions and tlve security, nonviolent sane-certain practical situations. We tlons, and student leadership. want to keep in mind a long-1\ullk and Yaskulka, the proj-term vision and yet have a ect's founders, have travelled strategy that can speak to on bicycles through .3.3 states, people In the world right now. conducting over 40 workshops A large part of your strategy for students at 25 colleges and seems to focus on public universities, and giving dozens awareness and education, of briefings for community ac-why? tlvlsts. I think that one of the under­pinnings of democracy is that you can't have any critical par­
tlcipatlon from citizens if you don't have any kind of critical education. Strategy is part of our politics. That means that, on campuses across the country, we need to be able to make these problems clear to people. 
There has been a lot of talk recently about how apathetic this generation of s.tudents Is. From your experiences, would you say that apathy Is a serious problem? 
I think that there· is a lot of truth to this Idea of apathy and we mention It as a problem, but its really an inadequate tag for labelling a huge amount of people. It means different things in different places; it means numbness to certain problems; It means economic concerns for young adults com­lng out of colleges; It means facing a job market with far fewer possibilities. 
These can all be translated Into terms of "apathy" If you define them that way, but the challenge is to connect with a very live interest in these is­sues. It doesn't take long to find out that everyone shares a concern with the fact that there is something really wrong with some of the military ap­proaches to dealing with con­filets. Apathy is a symptom, not a general condition. 
What is your Impression of Notre Dame relative to peace Issues? 
Notre Dame has one the best programs beginning in peace studies right now. It also has a large military presence on campus with the ROTC. Tradi­tionally both have been looked at as antagonisfk parties, but they also have, if you look at the basic problems, a great common interest. 
You don't think that It Is Impossible for someone to be In the military and a peace­maker simultaneously? 
No, I think that most of the Individuals Involved In the military, on every level, includ­ing students, are genuinely concerned with peace. Whenever we discuss how to create a common defense, the people who have done most of the training have been In the military. In order to know how any kind of peace endeavor should train Itself, we need to be aware of what has histori­cally been our only system of defense. 
You seem to share a tradl· tional Interest ln national security. 
Very often in providing for traditional thoughts of security, we forget those things which we wish to secure in the first place. For example, If our borders are extremely secure in the military sense and, yet, there are hungry people on our streets, we have to ask is that security common throughout the society? There Is no reason to think that the Issues of poverty, homelessness and environmental decay as sepa­rate Issues from national secur­lty. 
----------------------------------~--------­
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
SMC Volleyball downed Bethel but lost Illinois Institute of Technology Tuesday night in the squad's first scrimmaes of the season. -The Observer 
The Women's Soccer Club will hold practice every MWF 4-6 p.m. and TT 4:30-6 p.m. on Stepan Field. Come ready to play, For further information call Kate at 2904. -The Observer 
The Bicycle Club will have daily rides leaving from the bus stop at 4 p.m. All experience levels are welcome. A formal meeting will be scheduled later. Call Robert Kobayashi at 1668 if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Off-Campus Football and O.C. Soccer are looking for anyone interested in joining the O.C. team, coaching or being a captain. Those interested should call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64 will have a mandatory meeting for all returning sports staff members today at 10:30 p.m. at the WVFI studio. Any questions, call Sean Pieri or Jamey Rappis at 2266. -The Observer 
The ND Aikikai will have its first Aikido practice today at 6 p.m. in room 219 of the Rock. Aikido is a Japanese martial art which employs wrist locks instead of relying on physical strength. Call Brian at 1942 or'"1023 with any questions. -The Observer 
Interhall football captains are required to attend a captains meeting Friday, September 4, at 4:30 in the football auditorium. -The Observer 
0.C. Soccer is looking for off-campus undergraduates interested in playing men's soccer. Call Dave Thompson or Tom Yank at 287-5530. -The Observer 
O.C. Football will have an organizational meeting today on Green Field at 4 p.m. If you are unable to attend, leave your name at the NVA office. Call John Brunner at 234-8382 if you have questions. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will hold an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Theatre for anyone interested in joining. Direct questions to Marty Watts at 288-8732. -The Observer 
The track team will have a mandatory meeting for all interested in running indoor or outdoor track today at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium. -The Observer 
The swim team will hold tryouts today at 5:30p.m. and tomorrow at 6:30 a.m. Tryouts are held at Rolf's Aquatic Center and swimmers must bring their own suit and goggles. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Institute is starting beginner classes in Taekwondo and JuJitsu Sunday, September 5, at 6:30, in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Any ques­tions, call Billy or Drew at 288-4319. -The Observer 
The SMC Athletic Council will be sponsoring a picnic for all varsity athletes and those interested in be­coming varsity athletes tomorrow on the east side of An­gela at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
The crew team will have a mandatory meeting for all officers and anyone interested in rowing for the 1987-88 season tomorrow at 8:30p.m. in room 118 of the Nieuland Science Hall. -The Observer 
The wrestling team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the team in the ACC football auditorium Monday, September 7, at 4:30p.m. -The Ob­server 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 
Hatcher, bat ejected in loss 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Andre Dawson and Shawon Dunston each hit RBI doubles as the Chicago Cubs beat the Houston Astros 3-2 Tuesday night in a game that featured the ejection of Houston's leading hitter, Billy Hatcher, for using an illegal bat. 
With Gerald Young on first and no one out in the fourth, Hatcher broke his bat when he beat out an infield hit to Dunston at short. The barrel of the bat was split into two parts. Home plate umpire Dana DeMuth recovered the rem­nants of the bat and after they were examined by crew chief John McSherry and Houston Manager Hal Lanier, Hatcher was called out and ejected. 
Football Notebook returns 
Tomorrow! 
n.a..-Notra Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. n.a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All ciassifieds must
Classifieds be prapald, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five a-acters per day. 
NOTICES 
DOES your group need aT·shirt design? How about T-shirts or other imprinted sportswear?? I work thru a local T·shirt shop--reasonable prices. Call John at 1662. 
SPEE·DEE WORDPROCESSING. 0: 237·1949; H: 277·8131. 
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO· CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 277·1051 DAY; 277-2724 EVE. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
Foreigner's Bible Study Starting Sept 
3. thursday evenings 7·8:30 pm at 1010 Notre Dame Avenue, Apt 4. If you know nothing about Christianity, but are inter· ested. Foreigners especially welcome, we will try to speak simple English. DI­rections: Walk down (15 min) Notre Dame Av till Howard Street (STOP sign). You can also take the 7pm city bus. White stone house with trees just before Howard. Questions? Call 287 4855, or just come and see. 
············································ 
HELP! RIDE NEEDED: Miami Univ. (Oh.), !¥4·9-6, $$$, Doug ·2835 
Senior Council meeting today, Sep.2, 7:30 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame room 
LOST/FOUND 
PLEASEII Whoever accidently took my small, upholstered PINK ARM CHAIR and laminated wood BOOKCASE lrom ALUMNI HALL STORAGE please call Eileen at 271·0952. I can't afford new furniture. THANK YOUI 
···················· LOST·LOST·LOST I left my pink jean jacket on one of the Senior Class buses that went to Chicago Wednesday. The bus company doesn't have it, so some nice concerned Domer must have picked it up for me. Thanks a millionllll Please call the Senior Class Office at £239·5136 and ask for Amy so I can thank you and pick it up. If no one is in, please leave a message on the answering machine. 
LOST: I left a stereo cabinet at MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSE on Aug. 22 REWARD!!!! Call BILLY (288·4319) or KIRSTIN (x2596) 
HELPII! I LOST MY BLUE JEAN JACKET! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TIM BAUMAN AT 1204. REWARDI!I! 
MIXED SHOES AT BEACH VOLLEY· BALL FRIDAY? I PICKED UP YOURS. TO EXCHANGE..·CALL 2304 

LOST A GOLD INITIAL RING WITH A LETTER "P" ON IT FRIDAY NIGHT AT EITHER MORRISSEY DT OR SECOND FLOOR OR CAMPUS VIEW. IF FOUND, CALL PAM AT 284·5228. THANKS 
IF YOU HAVE FOUND A BLUE BUD LIGHT KEY CHAIN WITH 4 KEYS PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1160!! 
LOST a pair of "bact shoes." Lost during beach volleyball Friday. Left near tree by Stepan center. REWARD!!! CALL 2304. 
FOR RENT 

BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS ON GAME OR SPECIAL WEEKENDS ON CAMPUS. 219·291-7153. 
............................................... 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288·095!>255·3684 
FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO FAIR PRICES 277·3097 683·8889 

.................................................. 
DUPLEX FOR RENT. ON BUS LINE. IM· MEDIATE OCCUPANCY. CALL 232· 9239 FOR APPOINTMENT. 
EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259·4943 OR 234·3827. 
Share iarge hoasa near downtown. 100 mo. e 11.3 util. Grad student, non-smoker. 289·8792, Paul 
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN· T ALS 272·5959 
1 BEDROOM, LIVING ROOM, KITCHEN WITH PRIVATE ENTRANCE. OFF CAMPUS 683·5653 ·AFTER 6:00 PM 684·0706. 
For Rent 1 &2 bedroom apartments close to campus Call 291·6509 after 4:00 for details 
WANTED 

SITTER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 
P.M. TUES. THRU FRI. CALL AFTER 8:30 P.M. 259·9110. 
EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut Delivery has openings for delivery drivers. Start at $4.00 per houretipsegas reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips are paid daily.) We offer flexible schedule, meals, and a great work en· virement. You must be 18 years old with a car, insurance, and drivers licence. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em· player. Call 277·2662. 
HIRING ALL POSITIONS ·FULL TIME, PART TIME ·WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON! 
SITTERS NEEDED FOR DELIGHTFUL 2 YR. OLD GIRL. WORK AROUND YOUR SCH. & PROVIDE OWN TRANSP. $2.50 AN HR. 287·3315. 
PLEASE I need a ride to Chicago O'Hare Friday afternoon around 2:30 to catch a plane at 5:00. I'll pay gas ·call Susan at 2673. 
Part-time help wanted. Apply in person at Pandora's Books BOB Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. Open: 10:00·5:30 pm , 7 days a week. 
NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK· ETS. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MIKE X4340 
FACULTY MEMBER SEEKS CASUAL CLERICAL ASSISTANT, $4.501lour, for library, post office, similar errands. Ap­plications in writing to Dr Tom Karma, 251 Decio, by Monday September 7. Fur· ther info extension 7207 . 
SWIM INSTRUCTORS ·Volunteers needed to work with mentally handi· capped children and adults. Beginner Level swim classes. individual instruc· lion, classes Saturday Mornings andtlr Wednesday Evenings. Call Bill Thomas ·289-4831. 
FOR SALE 

For Sele: Compugraphics Unisetter Jr., font strips, and width cards. Direct all inquiries to the Systems Manager of The Observer. 
Mac 512K w-tase, $950 or best offer. 654·3323, leave message. 
1980 Yamaha 400 Special, good con· d.,$600 or best. 654·3323, leave mes· sage. 
IBM XT clone 1 yr old 640 K wt 20 MB hardrive & NEW ITT RGB monitor $1200 OBO, call Jennifer 259·5840 
NEW IBM software Wllnanuals Microsoft Word, Flight Simulator, mise games $300 OBO, call Jen 259·5840 
FOR SALE: 1973 RED VW BUS GOOD CONDITION RUNS WELL SEE AT BRIOGETS ANDOR CALL MEGAN 2562 
• • • RAYBANS • • • Aviator 31.80 Out­doorsman 35.00 Wayfarer 29.30 Wayfererll 32.10 Save 40%;cetalogs;1-800-4RAYBAN 
FOR SALE Electronic typewriter, lift·off correction. 14 months old, little used. $130. Call Anne 283 4350 
Electric Typewriter Japanes&Royal pretty new only$60 271·0114 
1976 DATSUN 2BOZ COUPE, 67,000 MILES, ORIGINAL OWNER. NEW DUN· LOP TIRES, RUNS EXCELLENT, NEEDS SOME BODY WORK. 277·9729 AFTER 6 PM. 
ROOM SIZE SEARS REFRIG. USED 3 MOS. ONE YR. WARRANTY IN· CLUDED. $75. 239·7498 OR 272-4741 AFTER 3 P.M. 
TIE·DIES TIE-DIES TIE·DIES CALL 2033 
TICKETS 
HELP !! I need three Michigan State GA's. Please call 283·2059 and ask for Paul. 
WANTED: AT LEAST 2 USC TICKETS FOR OCT. 2~. CALL 1120 
PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 
I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 
Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271·0765. 
HELP! I need 2 GA's for any home football game. Call Janice at 271·9130 evenings or 283·4653 days. 
I need 2 GA's for Mich St! Please call Ned at 3515. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH, MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306 
HELPI I NEED 8 USC TICKETS. CALL 
RANDY AT 3185 WILL BUY, SELL, OR TAPDANCE NUDE FOR. 
NEED 5 MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'S CALL DON 2506 
I NEED USC GA's have all others & $$ to trade, David x1712 
NEED 6 TIX FOR NO-USC GAME OCT.24. CALL COLLECT 717·339·1 040, BILL DITCHEY, MT. CARMEL, PA. 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 
I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX··AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S OR ONE GA AND ONE STUDENT TICKET FOR NAVY GAME. 225 LEWIS OR CALL 3735 
$$ I NEED NAVY GA'S $$ CALL JOHN AT 2099 
I NEED MANY GA'S FOR THE MIC· HIGAN ST. GAME, MARTY 1050 
NEED 2 GAs for MICH or any HOME GAMES -Call Bridget 271·0864 
I NEED ONLY 1 GA OR STUD TIX TO MICH ST I KNOW YOU CAN SPARE 11 CALL FRED AT £1488 ASAP! 
Need Tix for Barna ..as many as possible --serious dollars offered because I'm in serious trouble. call Matt £3549 
································································ 
DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX FOR PARENTS FIRST TRIP TO NDI DONT LET ME DISAPPOINT THEM! WILL PAY IN A BIG WAY! 
CALL BRIAN 2743 OR KRIS 271·0754 
NEED 2 BC GA or student call MB 233· 5732 
I URGENTLY need 3 GA's for the Mic· higan State game. Call Roger at 3533. 
HELP!!! NEED 1 (ONE) GA FOR MIC· HIGAN ST. x2101 ASK FOR NICK 
Need MSU GA's and student tix. Call Lisa at £4588. 
···················· 
Need 2 MSU Student Tickets. Also Need GA's And Student Tickets For USC. Will Pay $$$$. Call Bill £2003. 
I'm not Catholic (gasp), and my parents are divorced (gasp). Can you help me out with one Navy GA ?? Call Tim at 1223. Thanks . 
NEED TICKETS II 
7WOMICH. ST. GA'S& 7WOALABAMA GA'S CALL GARRETT 3506 
MEGA BUCKS FOR MICH. ST. G.A.'S'!! PLEASE HELP AND CALL CHRIS AT X 2039 OR 2040! $$$$$ 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR usc GAME. CALL CINDY 277·1320. 
SENIOR STUDENT TIX for sale. All five games. Great seats. Best offer. Mike 272· 3763. 
I need 2 GA tix for the USC and Alabama games! Call Boo Boo, £3684 
HELP! I need MICHIGAN GA's. Call Jane at 2179 or 3704. 
NEEDED DESPERATELY (My baby bro· ther is coming to visit): one Michigan State student or GA ticket. Call Beth at 288·6631. 
Need 1 Navy Ticket 
G.A. Or Student 
Call Chris £1593 Will Pay Big Bucks! 
Desperately need 2 G A's for USC. Pay top $, CALL £1409 
............................. WANTED: 4 PURDUE GA"S. PLEASE CALL LAURA 234-6281 EVES. 
WANTED: 2 MICH. STATE TIX. PLEASE CALL LAURA 234-6'281 EVES. 
NEED GA'S & STUDENT TIX FOR 'BAMA ..serious bills 'cause I'm in serious trouble. Call MATT £283·3549 
I need 5 GA's for MICH STATE. Please call Cory at 356 f. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N, ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
WAKE UP! 

BASS PLAYER WANTED FOR BAND. CALL 2175 OR 1648. 
RIDE NEEDED:U. of Illinois Sept. 4·6, Will Pay WELL, Call Lynn 4297 
WE DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 
I.U. THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY FOR ALL GAS. CALL MIKE AT 3375. 
JUNIORS I 

THE CLASS PICNIC HAS BEEN RES­CHEDULED FOR THURSDAY, SEPT 3 AT STEPAN FIELD. 5:00P.M. HOT AIR BALLOONING & TUNES! 
JUNIORS I 

THURSDAY! CLASS PICNIC! THURSDAY! HOT AIR BALLOONING! 
JUNIORS I BE THERE ·5 p.m. Stepan Field. 
IRISH GARDENS NEEDS A DELIVERY PERSON.ALL INTERESTED APPLI· CANTS WI CAR AND FINANCIAL AIDWORK STUDY CALL THE SHOP AT X4242 BETWEEN 12:30 AND 5:30 
Save cash and purchase your textbooks; three to five day service for textbook or· ders. Also, you can sell your textbooks for cash at Pandora's Bookstore. We're located on BOB Howard St., open 10:00· ,5:30 pm, 7 days a week. 
Michigan State tickets I need to get ahold of six student or GA tickets. Call Mike at 271·0765. 
WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH FRIDAY 8:00PM WASHINGTON HALL 
PAR 3 PAR 3 PAR 3 SATURDAY 4:00PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 
Looking for fun, new friends, and TRAVEL OPPORTUNITIES? Join SHENANIGANS: The alternative musi­cal choiceI A student-run organization dedicated to professional showman­ship end camaraderie. It's so fun, you'll sweer It's against Ou Lecl In­formational Meeting will be held on Thursday. September 3, In room 219 O'Shag at 9:00 PM. 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 The ObBerver page 11 
-
Sports 
Irish occer 
Tu..day'a Game Notre Dame 2, Loyola (Ill.) 1, OT 
Notre Deme 1 0 1 2 Loyole 0 1 0 j 
Firat Hell Notre Dame -Morris t (McCourt) 22:15. 
Second Hell Loyola -Drab 1 (unasSisted) 51:06 
Overtime Notre Dame -S. LaVIgne 1 (Morris) 97:1B 
Sholl on Gaol • Notre Dame 13, Loyola 9 Seveo 
• Lyons (Notre Dame) B. Ambrose (Loyola) 11. Foula -Notre Dame 9. Loyola t 5. Cornera -Notre Dame 10, Loyola 2. 
Greet lek11 Region Top 10 A preseason poll ot the top 10 teams In the Great Lakes region and their 19B6 season records, as determined by a poll at coaches. Notre Dame op­ponents are in italics. 
1 Akron 17-4-3 2 Evansville 17-3-2 3. Marquette 15-4-2 4. Indiana 9-6-4 
5. Cleveland State 12-6-1 6 Bowling Green 12-6-2 7 Wlsconsm 14-6-1 B Wisconsin· Milwaukee 10-B-2 9 Michigan State 13-7-1 
tO Notre Deme 13·7·2 
Irish Soccer Home Schedule 
September 4 Drake, 7:30p.m. 13 In· diana. 1 p.m. 18 Michigan State, 7:30 
p.m. (Krause Stadium Dedication Game) 20 Northwestern, 2 p.m. 23 II· llnois State, 7 p.m. 29 Bowling Green, 7:30p.m. October 2 Wisconsin, 7:30 p.m. November 4 Valparaiso, 7:30 p.m. 6 Marquette, 7:30 p.m. 8 Ohio State, 1 p.m. 
ports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today No sports scheduled 
Thursday No sports scheduled 
Friday Soccer vs. DRAKE Volleyball at Hoosier Classic Women's cross country at Purdue Tri· angular 
Saturday Volleyball at Hoosier Classic SMC volleyball vs. KALAMAZOO SMC soccer at Wisconsin 
Sunday No sports scheduled 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday Soccer at Detroit SMC tennis at Valparaiso 
AP Top 20 
The Top Twenty college lootboll teams In The Associated Press preseason poll, with tlrst-place votes In parentheses and lasl season'• records. Noire Dame opponents are Italicized. 
1. Oklahoma (55) 11-1-0 2. Nebraska (3) 10-2-0 3. UCLA (1) B-3-1 
4. Ohio State 10-3-0 5. Auburn 10-2-0 
6. Louisiana State 9-3-0 7. Michigan 11-2-0 
B. Florida State 7-4-1 9. Clemson B-2-2 
10. Miami (Fla.) 11-1-0 11. Penn State (1) 12-0-0 12. Arkansas 9-3-0 13. Washington B-3-1 
14. 
Arizona State 10-1-1 

15. 
Texas A&M 9-3-0 16. Iowa 9-3-0 17. Tennessee 7-5-0 1B. Notre Deme 5-8..(] 


19. Southern Cal 7-5·0 20. Florida 6-5-0 
Others receiving votes: Pittsburgh, Alabama. Colorado, Michigan State, Mississippi. 

Here's how the roster of National Football League teams would read If teams were known by locations of their corporate 
headquart~rs: 
National Conference 
Central Pontiac Lions Lake Forest Bears Eden Prairie Vikings Tampa Buccaneers Green Bay Packers East East Rutherford Giants St. Louis Cardinals Irving Cowboys Washington Redskins Philadelphia Eagles West Suwanee Falcons Anaheim Rams New Orleans Saints Redwood City 49ers 
American Conference 
East Orchard Park Bills Indianapolis Colts New York Jets Foxboro Patriots Miami Dolphins Central Cincinnati Bengals Cleveland Browns Pittsburgh Stealers 
Houston Oilers West El Segundo Raiders 
Kirkland Seahawks Kansas City Chiefs San Diego Chargers Denver Broncos 
Source: Chicago Tribune 
W'ednesday 
Score boa 
Sports Lists 
Results for Aug. 27·Sept.1 
Volleyball NO over Southern Illinois-Carbondale, 15-3, 
''Batty'' Superstitions 
15·8, 15·10 
So<:cer NO 2, Loyola 1, OT 
U.S. Ope Tennis 
Singles St:tedlngs Me11 
1. 
Ivan Lend! 

2. 
Stefan Edberg 

3. 
Mats Wilander 

4. 
Boris Becker 

5. 
Miloslav Mercir 

6. 
Jimmy Connem 

7. 
Pat Cash 

8. 
John McEnroe 

9. 
Andres Gomez 

10. 
Joakim Nystrorn 


1. flichie Ashburn --slept with his bats· Women 2. Eddie Collins -buried bats to keep them lively 
1. 
Steffi Graf 3. Bobby Murcer --stored bats in sauna 

2. 
Martina Navralilova 

4. Frankie Frisch -hung bats in barn for curing

3. 
Chris Evert 

4. 
Hana Mandlikova 5. Orlando Cepeda -used new bat after each hit 

5. 
Pam Shriver 

6. 
Helena Sukova 

7. 
Zina Garrison *Only on the road 

8. 
Gabriela Sabatini 

9. 
Claudia Kohde-Kilsch 

10. 
Manuela MaleHva --Brian McGill Philadelphia 


Irish Voll yball 

Women'• Volleyball Top 20 Volleyball Monthly's pret.eason poll of the top 20 
National League 
teams in the nation with ls~st season's records. Notre Dame's opponents are lr Italics . Note: records available orly from Notre Dame's t 9B7 Eaat 
opponents. 

w L Pet. GB St. Louis 79 52 .603 . New York 75 57 .56B 4.5 Montreal 73 58 .557 6 
1. Hawaii Philadelphia 69 63 .523 10.5 
2. Pacific 
Chicago 67 64 .511 12 3. Stanford Pittsburgh 60 72 .455 19.5 
4. 
Brigham Young 

5. 
UCLA 



Weet 

6. 
Illinois 26-3 San Francisco 71 62 .534 

7. Southern Cal 23-2 
Houston 65 67 .492 5.5 
B. Texas 29-6 Cincinnati 65 68 .489 6 
9. 
San Diego State Atlanta 57 74 .435 

10. 
Oregon 

Los Angeles 56 76 .424 14.5 

11. 
Nebraska 29-6 San Diego 54 7B .409 16.5 t 2. Cal-Santa Barbara 


13 

13. 
Arizona State 


Tueedey'e Reaulte 

14. 
Colorado State 

Atlanta 4, Pittsburgh 0 
15. 
San Jose State Chicago 3, Houston2 

16. 
Penn State 

Cincinnati 7, St. Louis 4 
17. Western Michigan 27-7 
New York 9, San Diego 1 1B. Kentucky 22-12 
Philadelphia 7, Los Angeles 5 
19. 
Pepperdine 


San Francisco 14, Montreal 4 
20. 
Long Beach State Wedneeday'o Game• Montreal (Perez 0-0) at San Francisco (LaCoss 11-B) 

Atlanta (Giavine 1-1) at Pittsburgh (Walk 6-2) Chicago (Sutcliffe 15-6) at Houston (Scott 13-10)
Irish Volleyball Home Schedule 
Cincinnati (Robinaon 6-3) at St. Louis (Cox 9-4) New York (Gooden 12-4) at San Diego (Whitson September 24 Bradley, 7:30 p.m. 10-9) 
Philadelphia (Carman 8-9) at Los Angeles (Hershiser 
October 31owa, 7 30 p.m. 9 Kentucky, 
13-12)

7:30p.m. 10 North•3rn Illinois, 7:30p.m. 
Thureday'a Game• 11 Minnesota, 4 p.m. 24 Wisconsin, No games scheduled 7:30 p.m. 28 Purdue, 7:30 p.m. 30 
Frlday'e Gamel Cincinnati at Chicago
Illinois-Chicago, 7:30 p.m. 
Montreal at Atlanta November 3 Western Michigan, 7:30 Pittsburgh at Houston 
p.m. 4 Eastern Michigan, 7:30 p.m. 7 San Diego at St. Louis New York af Los Angeles
Louisville, 7:30 p.rr. 13 Valparaiso, 7:30 
Philadelphia at San Francisco 
p.m. 14 Michigan State, 7:30 p.m. 
American League 
Eeat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Detroit  7B  52  .600  
'toronto  78  54  .591  1  
New York  74  58  .S61  5  
Milwaukee  71  60  .542  7.5  
Boston  63  67  .4B5  15  
Baltimore  60  72  .455  19  
Cleveland  51  B2  .383  28.5  
w •••  
Minnesota  69  64  .519  
Oakland  68  64  .515  .5  
California  66  67  .496  3  
Kansas City  65  67  .492  3.5  
Texas  62  69  .473  6  
Seattle  62  70  .470  6.5  
Chicago  55  76  .420  13  
Tueeday'e Reeulte  

Oakland B, New York 3 Seattle 5, Baltimore 0 Detroit 6, Cleveland 5 (12 Innings) Toronto 4, California 3 (10 innings) Texas 6, Chicago 4 Boston 9, Minnesota 0 Milwaukee 2, Kansas City 0 
Wedneedey'e Gem•• California (Reuss 4-2) at Toronto (Stieb 13-7) Oakland (Stewart1B·9) af New York (John 12-4) Seattle (Langston 15-10) at Baltimore (Ballard 2·3) Cleveland (Candiotti 6-13) at Detroit (Morns 15-7) Texas (Kilgus 2-5) at Chicago (LaPoint 2-2) Boston (Nipper 8-1 0) at Minnesota (Straker 6-9) Milwaukee (Wegman 8-1 0) at Kansas City (Leibrand1 13-9) 
Thuradey'e Gamea Boston at Minnesota Cleveland at Detroit Texas at Chicago Milwaukee at Kansas City 
• 


······~·····•••++•••++•••...................... 
FRESHMAN PICNIC 
at Lake .Michigan Dunes Sunday, September 6, 1987 
Buses leave Stepan Center 
11:00 A.M. Return at 6:00 P.M. 
Tickets available at the Freshman Year of Studies Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 
$3.00 charge includes transportation, lunch and cookout dinner 
................................................. 

~-----------------~---­
The Observer 

' 
&. -" .
AP Photo 

Baylor from the Red Sox to add even more punch to their lineup. Details of the trade appear below. 
Associated Press will be eligible for postseason career has participated in five action if the Twins maintain AL Championship Series as 
MINNEAPOLIS Don their division lead. well as last year's World Se­Baylor, the inspirational Major-league rules hold that ries. leader of Boston's 1986 pennant if a player is traded, he must To make room for Baylor on drive, suited up Tuesday with be physically present in his new their 24-man roster the Twins the Minnesota Twins, who hope city by midnight Aug. 31 to be sent pitcher Steve Carlton to he can provide the same lead­eligible for the postseason. their Portland farm team in the ership for them as they battle Conveniently, Baylor and the Pacific Coast League. The for the American League West Red Sox have been in Min­Twins said they will recall title. neapolis since Sunday as Bos­Carlton on Wednesday, 
"He's an intimidating ton and Minnesota began a meaning the 42-year-old left­force," Twins Manager Tom three-game series Tuesday bander won't be eligible for Kelly said. "He's dangerous night. postseason play. every time he steps up to the "He's going to do the Twins plate. He's been through these a world of good," said Dwight Minnesota is his sixth team, wars before. It seems he's al­Evans, one of Baylor's best all in the AL. An outfielder until ways on teams that win. Hope­friends on the Red Sox. "With arm ailments in the mid-1970s fully, his track record will con­him, they'll probably win their made him a defensive liability, tinue." division. I've played with a lot Baylor is perhaps the most suc­
The Twins completed the of great people; he's one of the cessful designated hitter in trade with the Red Sox for the best." baseball history. At the time of 38-year-old designated hitter Minnesota will send Boston a the trade, he had a .261 career just before Monday's midnight player to be named later for batting average with 331 deadline, meaning that Baylor Baylor, who in his 16-year homers and 1,236 RBI. 
Foggie declared ineligible 
Associated Press considered an extra benefit in conduct are being addressed violation of NCAA rules. within administrative channels 
MINNEAPOLIS -University In addition, when Foggie was at the university, Peterson of Minnesota quarterback interviewed by the Big Ten and said. Rickey Foggie was declared in­NCAA investigators about the In a separate incident, eligible Tuesday by a univer­travel, he initially failed to dis­Foggie was declared ineligible sity committee for accepting a close accurately the circum­by the university last year -also loan from an assistant coach stances of the repayment, for accepting an airplane ticket for an airplane ticket, the uni­Peterson said. -but had his eligibility restored versity said. An ad hoc committee of the immediately by the NCAA. 
The university's Assembly ACIA held a hearing Saturday The Gophers open their Committee on Intercollegiate on the matter. season Sept. 12 against Nor­
Kirby Puckett and his Minnesota teammates are flying high In the AL West, and they acquired Don 
Red Sox trade Baylor to Twins 
Athletics "has declared Foggie ineligible as it is required to do under NCAA legislation and has authorized an appeal to reinstate the eligibility for 10 of the 11 regularly scheduled fodtball games," sports infor­mation director Bob Peterson said. 
Peterson said the university planned to appeal to the NCAA staff by Wednesday to have Foggie's eligibility reinstated. If the_university is dissatisfied with the staff's decision, it can take the matter for a hearing 
before  the  NCAA  eligibility  
committee.  
Gophers  Coach  John  

Gutekunst could not immedi­ately be reached for comment. 
Foggie, the Gophers' all-time total offense leader who is pre­paring for his fourth year as starting quarterback, accepted a loan of $356 from assistant coach Larry Beckish for an airplane ticket to his South Carolina home in February 1985 to attend his grand­mother's funeral. 
Current Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz was then the Gopher's head coach. 
Foggie paid for the trip six months later, but the loan was 
Issues relating to Beckish's thern Iowa. 
TERRIFIC VALUE 

join us for "BEEFY WEDNESDAY" Purchase a 14" Roast Beef Sub and receive an 18" Sub instead at no extra charge.
.. MATEO'S SUBS 1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY 271-0SUB 
Offer valid only on Wednesday. Offer may expire without notice. Not valid with any other promotion 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 

Backers 
continued from page 16 
a Notre Dame single-season record with seven fumble recoveries in 1986 and will start at the outside position again this season despite some early questions concerning his aca­demic eligibility. 
Figaro is indeed eligible, out­side linebacker coach Barry Alvarez said Monday, and that could mean a few more big plays from the defense this year. 
But the bad dream isn't over yet. 
Consider Darrell "Flash" Gordon at the eagle-backer po­sition -a spot from which the 6-3, 210-pound senior will be chasing many a signal-caller. And they don't call him "Flash" for nothing. 
"I like to think the name reflects my style of play on the field," Gordon says. 
Covering the short passes and plugging holes at the inside slots will be junior Ned Bolcar and senior W es Pritchett -both of whom have carried their share of playing time in the past and have been impressive this fall. 
Sophomore Mike Stonebreaker, who figured to play a key role at inside 
linebacker, is still sitting out for academic reasons. Stonebreaker has not practiced this fall. 
"The loss of (Stonebreaker) hurts," Fazio said. "But Bolcar and Pritchett are steady, reli­able players. We would have had a rough time picking the two starters from those three young men. 
Sophomore John Foley, who sat out last year under Proposi­tion 48, should see a good deal of playing time behind Bolcar and Pritchett. 
And the bench is even deeper at the outside position for the Irish. 
"We have four people who could legitimately start (on the outside)," Alvarez said. 
Former fullback Frank 
Starns, who never has run a 
pla_y on the Irish defense, looks 
sohd at eagle-backer behind 
Gordon. Sophomore Rod West 
has emerged as the second 
string outside linebacker be­
hind Figaro. 

"With the talent out there I think they should be involv~d in a lot of big plays," Alvarez said. "Turnovers, sacks and things like that. So far they've been doing that. 
"The first week Frank Starns and Figs (Figaro) had good scrimmages. This last week Flash Gordon and Ned Bolcar had good scrimmages. As long as somebody's doing it, they'll keep me happy." 
And as long as the entire unit continues doing what it has done this fall, those quarter­back nightmares are bound to continue. 
Wish yQur friends a Happy Birthday thrQugh Observer advertising. 
SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS 
Pictures to be taken Sept. 7 through Sept. 25 
Sign up during dinner times in the North or South Dining Halls 
* Off-Campus Seniors sign up in the Dome 
office Tuesday, Sept. 1 and Wednesday, Sept 2 from 3:00-4:30pm 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 The Observer page 13 
ND nabs OT win in soccer opener 
Special to the Observer 
Freshman Steve LaVigne scored the winning goal in overtime to give the Irish soccer team a season­opening 2-1 victory over Loyola (Ill.). 
LaVigne's goal came at the 97: 18 mark on a header off a corner kick by junior forward Randy Morris. Mor­ris also scored the game's first goal at 22: 15 off a pass from junior forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt. 
Rich Drab tied the game for the Ramblers at 51:06 on an unassisted goal. 
Sophomore Danny Lyons went the distance in goal for Notre Dame, recording 8 saves. The Irish dominated play for most of the contest, as they had eight more cor­ners than the Ramblers. Notre Dame also outshot Loyola, 13-9. 
The losing coach was Ray O'Connell, a Notre Dame alumnus. It was also Notre Dame's first victory in eight tries over Loyola. In the last meeting three years ago Notre Dame and Loyola tied, 0-0. 
The Irish next open their home schedule this Friday with the first night contest at Krause Stadium. Notre Dame hosts Drake in that contest. 

Lencll, Navratilova cruise 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Defending champions Ivan Lendl and Martina Navratilova breezed past their opening-round oppo­nents at the U.S. Open Tues­day, with Lendl scoring the first three-set shutout in Open history. 
Lendl overpowered South African Barry Moir 6-0, 6-0, 6-0, while Navratilova beat Kate Gompert of Rancho Mirage, Calif., 6-1, 6-1. 
schedule featuring one game on ABC, four possible dates
Brow·n 
with CBS, two with ESPN and
r:ontinued from page 16 
several with Chicago-based top returning player in Division WGN, Brown has a nationwide 1-A for all-purpose yardage, stage to exhibit his talents. Tim Brown is i.n the position to Florida quarterback Kerwin do all of these. Most legitimate Bell and Holy Cross' do­candidates play for a winning everything Gordie Lockbaum team, and certainly the Irish will be playing before limited are looking to say goodbye to audiences. two consecutive years with a In the next several weeks, 5-6 record. Sports Information depart­
Notre Dame's extensive na­ments across the country will tional coverage will certainly be busy compiling statistics help Brown's Reisman hopes. and distributing information to With a television contract the media, which certainly 
----·------.-.1
THE FUTURE IS IN INTEilNATIONAL BUSINESS 
A representative will be on campus 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1987 
to discuss 

GRADUATE STUDY 
ffi1f!!!t~!!~!W!!P
~ OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GLENDALE. ARIZONA 85306 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
CARF:ER & PLACEHENT SERVICES 
v 
~----------------------------------~ 
In another opening-day match, four-time Open winner John McEnroe defeated Matt Anger of Pleasanton, Calif., 6­3, 6-2, 6-2. McEnroe lost to Paul Annacone in the first round of last year's Open. 
holds the power of the pen in the Reisman race. 
"We have no Madison Ave­nue campaign to get the name of Tim Brown out to people," says John Heisler, Associate Director of Notre Dame's Sports Information Depart­ment. "Our football program is visible enough so that the sta­tistics take care of themselves. We make people aware of those statistics. 
"Tim has got all this atten­tion because of what he did last season, it's really nothing we've done. With our television exposure a lot of people are going to see him play. Nobody creates that, it's just a built-in advantage that exists here at Notre Dame." 
The Reisman Hype has begun and for the first time in a decade Notre Dame is at cen­ter stage. Everyone and his brother may be billed as a Reis­man Trophy candidate, but it'll take three months and eleven football games before New York's Downtown Athletic Club announces the 1987 Reis­man Trophy winner. Until then most Irish fans will probably agree with the Sports Il­lustrated's bold cover state­ment­
"Tim Brown: Best Player In The Land." 

GRAND 
RE~-OPENING 
WEEKEND 
Fridc1y and Saturday Sept. 4 &5 
Dance to your favorite music and check o~ut our new bar serving a variety of food and drinks. 
2nd floor Lafortune 
•


• F'.M.­


~ --~--~----·--~-_......w_____ 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987
page 14 The Observer 
Baseball roundup 
Athletics blast Yanks, 8-3 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Dwayne Murphy, Jose Canseco and Terry Steinbach homered Tuesday night, leading the Oakland Athletics over the New York Yankees 8-3. 
Steve Ontiveros, 8-6, gave up two runs, one of them earned, on four hits in six innings. Relievers Dennis Lamp, Greg Cadaret and Eric Plunk finished in the combined six­hitter. 
Murphy hit a two-run homer that capped a three-run third inning and gave the Athletics a 5-0 lead. Carney Lansford had an RBI bunt single before Murphy hit his thir:d home run of the season and first since April 20 off Charles Hudson, 9­5. 
Canseco's 28th homer in the fifth and Steinbach's 13th in the sixth came off Pat Clements. 
Rangers 6, White Sox 4 
CHICAGO -Pete Incaviglia doubled home Pete O'Brien to break a 2-2 seventh inning tie, then hit a two-run home run in the eighth as the Texas Rang­ers beat the Chicago White Sox 6-4 Tuesday night. 
Mariners 5, Orioles 0 

BALTIMORE -Scott Bankhead and Bill Wilkinson combined on a three-hitter and Ken Phelps hit a two-run homer Tuesday night as the Seattle Mariners defeated the Bal­timore Orioles 5-0. 
Bankhead, 8-8, gave up two hits in seven innings, winning for the first time in five deci­sions and helping end Seattle's three-game losing streak. 
W
hen it's three o'clock in the morning and you're nearly done with your term paper, the last thing you want to see on the screen is "fatal disk error:' 
That's why so many people insist on Sony. 
One reason is that Sony invented the 3.5" disk drive as well as the 3.5" floppy diskette. 
Another reason Sony floppies are so popular on campus is their relentless 
Phelps, who has 22 homers in 272 at-bats, connected in the sixth following a walk to Gary Matthews, giving Seattle a 4-0 lead. 
Rookie John Habyan, 4-4, was the loser. 
Red Sox 7, Twins 0 

MINNEAPOLIS -Jeff Sellers pitched a four-hitter and Wade Boggs and Mike Greenwell homered Tuesday night as the Boston Red Sox beat the Min­nesota Twins 7-0. 
Minnesota's Kirby Puckett singled in his first at-bat for his seventh straight hit, but wound up 2-for-4 and one short of the major-league record of 13 hits in three straight nine-inning games. 
Brewers 2, Royals 0 

KANSAS CITY, MO. -Ted Higuera pitched a one-hitter ­Ross Jones' two-out triple in the eighth inning -and the Mil­waukee Brewers scored two runs in the ninth against Bret Saberhagen to beat the Kansas City Royals 2-0 Tuesday night. 
Higuera retired the first 15 Kansas City batters in pitching his second straight shutout. He lost his no-hit bid when ,Jones hit line drive down the left-field line just beyond the glove of · Rob Deer. 
Blue Jays 4, Angels 3 

TORONTO -Jesse Barfield's double scored Rob Ducey with one out in the lOth inning to give the Toronto Blue Jays a 4-3 vic­tory over the California Angels Tuesday night. 
Braves 4, Pirates 0 

PITTSBURGH -Zane Smith pitched a four-hitter for his 
reliability. And that goes for our 5.25': floppies, too. 
After all, when it comes to magnetic media, nobody's ahead of Sony. We're a world leader in 

seventh win in his last eight starts and Ted Simmons hit a two-run homer Tuesday night, powering Atlanta to a 4-0 vic­tory over Pittsburgh that ended the Pirates' seven-game win­ning streak. 
Tigers 6, Indians 5 
DETROIT -Pat Sheridan ended an 0-for-25 slump with a two-out double in the 12th in­ning that scored Darrell Evans from first base Tuesday night and lifted the Detroit Tigers over the Cleveland Indians 6-5. 
The American League East­leading Tigers remained one game ahead of Toronto, which beat California 4-3 in 10 innings. 
Evans, who had homered and hit a tying single in the ninth, opened the 12th with a single off Don Gordon, 0-2, the fourth Cleveland pitcher. Tom Brookens and Chet Lemon flied out, but Sheridan laced a 1-2 pitch into left field, where Cory Snyder let the ball get past him. The slow-footed Evans never broke stride and scored stand­ing up. 
Reds 7, Cardinals 4 
ST. Louis -Dave Concepcion broke a tie with an RBI double and Buddy Bell followed with a three-run homer one out later in the seventh inning as the Cin­cinnati Reds beat St. Louis Tuesday night and snapped the Cardinals' six-game winning streak. 
Concepcion's double, his second hit in as many innings, and Bell's homer, his 11th, came off Bill Dawley, the third St. Louis pitcher. The two hits pinned the loss on Rick Horton, 6-3, and gave Cincinnati only its second victory in 11 games. 
audio, video and computer magnetic media. 
The thing to remem­ber about magnetic media in computers is that almost any input error can be corrected, but lost data is forever. 
So, instead of learning your lesson the hard way, trust the diskettes that set the standard for the others to follow. 
Use the Sony. 
SONY. 
THE ONE AND ONLY. 


.. See your part1c1patmg de.tler. Sung lass oUer 
good on purchases of 10 of any 3.5" or 5.25" disks while they lut. Olillon of AmeriCA. Son and The One ~nd 0Rly are tradem1.rka of Son . 

AP Photo 
Larry Sheets wasn't the only Oriole ducking last night as they were shut out by the Mariners. Details appear at left. 
'IF 

YOU THOUGHT YOU COULDN'T START AT THE TOP 
NOW YOU 
MAY 

Explore career opportunities with an in~ustry leader which 
• 
Demands Entrepreneurship 

• 
Emphasizes Career Grnwth Based on Individual Performance 

• 
Offers Immediate Responsibility 

• 
provides a TOP-rated Executive Training Program 


Please Join Us At An Open House 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1987 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
THE ANNAPOLIS ROOM 
10:00 A.M.-4:00 P.M. 
Dress is casual and we will be 
pleased to accept your resume 
(If available) 
THE MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY EXCELLENCE IN RETAILING 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987 
The Observer 
Meet people. 
Work for 
The Observer 
We'll even show you the answers to today's crossword before everyone else gets them. 
Campus 
I 

Today is the last day for all class changes. 
12:10 p.m. -1 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous at Holy Cross House. 4:30p.m.: Urban Plunge Task Force organizational meeting at Center for SociaL Concerns. 
7 p.m.: Science Placement Night for senior science majors. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services in Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Double Domer Burger London Cheese Casserole Seafood Cantonese Steak Fries 
Comics 
Bloom County 
£XOTIC 

Beernuts 
I 
Saint Mary's 
Philadelphia Steak Sand­
wich 
Baked Fish Mexican Potato Deli Bar 

37 Thrashed 38 School subj. 39 Totals: abbr. 40 Arm bone 41 Trim branches 42 Slangy assent 43 Pa. port 44 Long dog 45 Advantage 47 Poised 49 Proposals 51 Part of Earth 55 Moon valley 56 Heavenly sight 58 Utters without 
thinking 59 Young equine 60 Markdown 
event  
61  Grandiose  
tales  
62  - of Cleves  

63 Fjord city 

DOWN 1 Married 2 Eastern VIP 3 Mature 4 Building wings 5 Stay 6 Declaim 7 Junction 

Mark Williams 


page 15 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 "If I 
-king ..." 5 Irritate 9 "Red -of 
Courage" 14 Jennings or 
Ludwig 15 Sea bird 16 Of birds 17 Tactful folk 19 Speedy 20 Put In other 

words 21 Support posts 22 Row 23 Horse sport 24 Make blue 28 Fr. city 30 Hammarskjold 33 Earlier 34 Brought Into 
being 35 B•gel center 36 Cowboy aid 

©1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  09/02/87 I  
8  "- 
Mlserables"  
9 Nurse Clara  
10 Be efficacious  
11  Dinosaur  
12 Trot  or  lope  
13 Men  on  the  
line  
18 Sea mammal  
21  Use money  
24 Use  an  
aerosol  
25 Scent  
26 Salute In  a  
way  
27 Performs  
29 Region  
31  Unaccompa­nied  09/02/87  
32 Civet cousin  46 Alluvial  52  - facto  
34 Pacific spot 35 Towel word  deposit 48 Musical  53 Auditors at times  
37 Heals  Instrument  54 Betray  
41  Insect feelers  49 Celestial  56 Painting  
43 Way out 44 Counterfeit  spheres 50 Threadlike  deg. 57 Classic  
money  structure  car  


The Far Side Gary Larson 
~~---~~------------~~~ 
"Oh, walt! Walt, Cory! ... Add the cereal first and then the mllkl" 
..--------------------------------~r-i·-------------------------------1 
Student Union Board 
I DESPERATELY SEEKING I ILllGHTING AND SOOND CREWI 
presents: RAW DBAL 
I fc • I
D

IFor ODOSan Francisco Dance Company rer ormtng on 1 
Tonight & Thursday 
I Campus 1 7:00, 9:00 & 11:00 pm 1volunteers needed on Tuesday, Sept. 15 and Wednesday,1 Engineering Auditorium I Sept. 16 I $ . I (Experience a plus but not necessary) 1 
2 00 

1 CALL NICK AT 239-7757 I
1 1
No food or drink allowed
............................................................. ! .................................................................... 

--~----~--...... 
Sports 
Wednesday, September 2, 1987
page 16 

----~-­
Backers set sights on opposing QBs 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 

Playing quarterback in col­lege football can be a bit scary, to say the least. 
Blitzing linebackers breathe down your throat, and the ones that stay back are usually more than willing to lay a blind-side hit on your favorite receiver. 
But in 1987, the Notre Dame coaching staff wants playing quarterback against Notre Dame to be nothing short of nightmarish. And that -in part is because of an impressive corps of Irish linebackers. 
This past Saturday's scrim­mage was a perfect example. 
"We let them on their own," defensive co-ordinator and in­side linebacker coach Foge Fazio said of his defense, which dominated the workout with all kinds of pressure on the quar­terbacks and plenty of big plays. "We wanted this to be as game-like as possible, like it was Michigan lining up across the line." 
And the Wolverines will have plenty to think about when they try to push the ball over the line of scrimmage against the Irish in less than two weeks. 
First, senior Cedric Figaro at outside linebacker. Figaro set 
see BACKERS, page 13 


Photo courtesy of NO Sports Information 
Outside linebacker Cedric Figaro looks to have referee. Marty Strasen takes a look at the Irish more effect on oposslng quarterbacks this llnebacklng corps In his story at left. season than he appears to be having with this 
•

The making of a Heisman w1nner 
For the past three nights, dozens of students have been found camped out with pillows, pizzas and radios at Gate 10 of the ACC. 
I may be going out on a limb, but my guess is that such diligent patience is not for the upcoming Chicago concert. 
Across the street from these dedicated fans sits Notre Dame Stadium, quiet until September 19 when Michigan State and ESPN come to town for the first home game of the season. This game brings back fond memories of the Spartans last visit, and my first home game as a Notre Dame student. 
Like this year's opener, it was a night contest with Michigan State. The one play I will never forget from that game occured on the opening kickoff of the second half. Standing on the Notre Dame seven­yard line, then-sophomore Tim Brown recieved the kick, slipped through the futile grasps of eleven Spartans, broke to the near sideline and turned on the juice for a 93-yard touchdown. 
Last Thursday I stepped up to the counter at the Huddle for a Domerburger and saw that same No. 
81 on the cover of the nation's most prominent sports magazine -Sports Illustrated. 
I walked over to the deli and bought a copy. So did my roommate. So, according to the deli, did over 500 people on that day and another 400 since then. The deli usually sells 80 copies of SI per week. 
I proudly called home and told my parents to buy a copy for posterity, taped the picture to my desk 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

for inspiration as I read my 1,000 pages of govern­ment homework, and daydreamed how justice would be served if Tim Brown won the Reisman Trophy in the 100th year of Notre Dame football. Then I began to wonder-What did Tim Brown think when he walked into the Huddle and saw that familiar No. 81 looking back at him? 
"I'm excited and happy about it all," says the senior flanker. "But I realize that my luck could change very quickly. It's nice and everything, but there really is no point in worrying about it. I say, 'Hey, let's just go out and play some football games,' and let that tell the story. I'm one for showing how I can play on the field, not talking about it." 
Nothing could be further from the truth. Despite all the great publicity and media hoopla surround­ing the top candidates for the Reisman, the Trophy is won on the football field. And for Tim Brown, that is 10 days away. 
Once the season does begin, there are several important factors in the "making" of a Reisman Trophy winner. Outstanding play on the field is foremost, but it certainly doesn't hurt to have a great game in one of the first few contests, handle the ball several times per game, and have the abil­ity to break the game open with a big play. As the 
see BROWN, page 12 

Ticket sales continue 
GATE /-3~ GATE4~TEl._GATE6 GA~ GATES 
2 1
/,:~~ CD CD 0 CD@®® ® ~k~ GATE1 ~ ~~ n~ n n n n n n ~~~GATE9 
~ ~ 
o;, r "'®
[lffiJJJ.J
CD o;, I "' 1a 
='IIWll!l ~~ @ I GATE @ -, TIll ®19 
I 10 
GATE 

@s : I : ®)
18 ~ ----~ 
® ~~"f E3E:=='3r==J~~ \~~~ ® 
..~~-, ,E3n""n , , ·~""" 
' @ ® @1®1®1®1@1@@ ® /
GATE 16'-_.....GATE 12 GATE 15 G.:;E~4 GATE 13 -OOOIIIlE 
Special to The Observer 

Students are asked to bring thier application, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of fue ACC on the day specifiedfor each cla~s. Qne student may: present a maximum of four (4) applicatiOns and ID cards. Married students wis­hing to P.Urchase a ~icket for their spouse must show proof
of marnage. The ticket for a spouse is the same price as 
a student ticket. 

Student football ticket applications have been sent to all students with a campus orlocal address. If you have not yet received your application or if the class status pre­printed on your application is incorrect you are asked to come to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC prior to your designated class issue day. 
Sophomores: Wednesday, September2 Freshmen: Thursday, September 3 
Irish fencer Sullivan helps U.S. to gold at Pan American Games 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Persistence has been the key "It was different in many Sports Writer to achieving such results and ways," said Sullivan, "like a Sullivan and teammates Katie mini-Olympics with so many 
This summer's Pan Ameri­Bilodeaux, M.J. O'Neill, Sharon people from different can Games in Indianapolis Monpasiere and Elaine Cheris countries." proved to be a showcase for have the battle scars to prove In many ways the games talented American athletes. it. served to prepare the United 
From the explosive individual States team for next year's performances of Carl Lewis to Each team member had to Olympic competition. And, be­the team glory of women's bas­compete against fencers from cause they must often reside in ketball, the focus was on the every area of the country, relative anonymity despite
U.S. contingent. fighting through months of their past success, the newly
But it was under a softer 
attained gold medal may serve spotlight that Irish senior to attract more than just casual Molly Sullivan's skills shined, admirers. helping the U.S. fencing team capture the gold and establish­"We've been trying to gain ing the United States as an experience for the Olympics," Olympic threat. said Sullivan, ~/and now that 
we've proven ourselves in this hemisphere we hope to getThe United States easily more funding for the pro­progressed past their competi­gram."
tion from Argentina, Mexico and Canada before clashing Working under Notre Dame with the powerful Cuban team fencing coach Yves Auriol
Molly Sullivan
for the gold medal. while participating in the Pan Coming into the final match competition on the national cir­Am Games, Sullivan continued 
relatively equal in strength, it cuit in five major meets before her individual work as well, took fine performances from emerging as the top five fen­gaining experience towards each fencer to accumulate the cers in the country and receiv­her ultimate goal of making the nine individual sets needed to ing an invitation to be on the Olympic team. defeat the Cubans nine to six. team. 
Sullivan, like many of the And if Sullivan's abilities and fencers, has been on junior na­the fine performance of the en­"The United States fencing tional teams and has even gone tire team during the Pan Amteam was never considered to 
to Germany and France on
be strong," said Sullivan, "and Games are a harbinger of 
world teams, but found the at­things to come, Olympic goldwe really stressed doing well mosphere at the Pan Am may be a realistic goal for thebecause we do not always see 
Games to be unique. future.
the results." 

Notre Dame 
Observer 

07251325 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
026680 

Box: 25 Volume : 22(21) Issue: 8 Day: Thu Date : 9/3/1987 12:00:00 AM Notes: Issue # Missing (may not exist) : Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

.----------------r--------------------------------------------­
Mostly perfect 
Mostly sunny Thursday with 

:=:J
A==C==C=E=N=T=:=R=o=o==m==m===at==e==f==ro==m===h=e=l=I=============~' k1¢j 
highs in the low 70s. Clear 
Thursday night with lows in the 
low to mid 50s. Sunny Friday 

IL--V_I_EW_P_O_I_N_T_:_O_u_r_h_o_m_o_g_e_n_e_o_lu_s_c_am_p_u_s____.l ~ with highs in the upper 70s.
1 

VOL. XXII, NO. 8 
U.S. may 
Police toughen remove 
O.C. party stance
warheads 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO and 201 E. Navarre Ave. were · Senior Staff Reporter broken up, though no noise cita­Associated Press 
tions were issued because the Notre Dame students haven't residents cooperated in break­
WASHINGTON-If West Ger­many makes good on its offer been arrested for underage ing up the parties. 
to retire its Pershing lA mis­drinking at off-campus parties The enforcement of the noise siles, the United States will and bars so far this semester, ordinance is serving as a warn­withdraw the rockets' but the reprieve is about to end, ing to students, Cottrell said. 
American-owned nuclear war­South Bend Police Captain "This is their warning now 
Patrick Cottrell said Wednes­when we're issuing noise cita­heads from German territory, 
the State Department said day. tions and breaking up parties," Wednesday. "It's coming and it's not he said. 
It declined, however, to going to be citations," Cottrell The reason no arrests have specify whether the warheads warned. "It's going to be like been made so far, Cottrell ex­last spring with arrests where plained, is that there are people
would be destroyed or stock­
piled for future use. they're going to be taken down­who are living off-campus for 
Replying to a barrage of town to the county jail and have the first time and freshmen questions about the 72 Persh­to post bail." who aren't aware of the situa­ings, department spokes­The police will begin arrest­tion. Cottrell hoped these stu­
woman Phyllis Oakley restated ing people for underage drink­dents would talk to students 
the U.S. position that their fu­ing and other offenses at raided who have been through a raid ture "is not subject to any form parties this weekend, he added. in the past. of negotiation with the Soviet There have already been "I feel it has been a fair 
Union." numerous complaints from warning," Cottrell said of the neighbors of off-campus stu­grace period. 
"The warheads of the dents, Cottrell noted. The police will also continue Federal Republic of Germany Over the last two weekends to send undercover officers into Pershing lAs are controlled by 
us, and always have been," the police have raided six par­bars and parties. ties to enforce the city's noise If the officer has enough
Oakley said. "They are part of 
ordinance. evidence of underage drinking, our program of cooperation Parties at 723 South Bend the police will raid the party or with our West German allies." 
Ave., 825 N. Notre Dame Ave. bar, Cottrell said. 
After the Pershings became and 801 N. St. Louis St. were Cottrell had mixed feelingsa sticking point in U.S.-Soviet 
medium-range arms negotia­broken up on Aug. 23 and cita­about last year's raids. tions for violation of the noise "With the overall results,
tions, West German Chancellor ordinance given to each yes," he said. "I wasn't happy Helmut Kohl last month of­
residence. with officers making arrests tofered to remove them in the in­The police broke up "a large make students obey the law. Iterests of an agreement. 
party of about 600 people" in don't feel officers should have"If the conditions laid out by the 700 block of Rex Street on to do that."
Chancellor Kohl in his Aug. 26 Aug. 24. The police issued noise Cottrell said that thestatement are met, and the citations to the residents of hundreds of students who go offFRG (Federal Republic of Ger­houses at 719, 711 and 709 Rex campus, and the few who domany) consequently retires the 
Jumping Gymnasts Flobert Jones'Tlle Observer St. get arrested, give the other stu­72 Pershing lAs, we would, of 
Students in the NMMC Gymnastics Club w•,re jumping at the This past weekend parties in dents who stay on campus "a see MISSILES, page 3 chance to recruit new members at Saint Mary's Activities Night. the 600 block of St. Peter St. bad name." 
Activities unveiled for Malloy inauguration ceremony 
By PAT HEALY 
News staff 
Father Edward Malloy will be inaugurated as University President of Notre Dame Wed­nesday, Sept. 23, with a full slate of activities planned. 
Classes will be cancelled on Sept. 23 so that students, fac­ulty, and university personnel can attend the mass and con­vocation ceremonies, accor­ding to Dick Conklin, assistant vice president for university relations. 
Heading off the day at 10 a.m. will be a mass held in the arena of the Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center. Following mass will be an inaugural luncheon at 11:45 a.m. at the Field House of the ACC. 
Conklin said a procession will leave the Hesburgh Library mall at 2: 15 p.m. and make its way back to the ACC arena. There the main event of the day, the academic convocation ceremony, will take place. 
Greetings from special guests and faculty will begin the convocation. Student Body President Patrick Cook, Pres­ident of the Alumni Association Joseph Reich, Dean of the Divinity School at Malloy's Alma Mater Vanderbilt Uni­versity Dr. H. Jackson Forstman, Chairperson of the Faculty Senate Dr. Ellen Weaver, Provincial of the In­diana Congress of the Order of Holy Cross Fr. Richard Warner will be among the speakers. 
Malloy's inaugural address will be his first major presenta­tion since assuming the presidency on June 1. Conklin said he expects the address highlight of the convocation to be. 
The traditional regalia of the University President, a minted presidential medal and a mace, will then be presented to Mal­loy. 
A reception at the Hesburgh Library Mall at 4:30p.m. will conclude the day. 
Korean factions make a!greements in first talks 
Associated Press autoworkers fought riot police. opposition demands for such better working conditions, and bered police did not intervene,
"It was quite significant that democratic changes as replac­independent unions. 
city officials said. 
SEOUL, South Korea -Gov­we held the first official talks," ing the electoral college with About 15,000 strikers from ernment and opposition Roh Tae-Woo, president of the direct pres:tdential elections. 
the nation's largest shipyard "It's a terrible situation,"leaders agreed Wednesday to governing Democratic Justice He also agreed to ease gov­marched through the southern one official said by telephone. 
hold the first direct presiden­Party, said after his first ernment control over unions, port of Ulsan behind 80 bul­tial election in a generation by meeting with Kim Young-Sam which has made strikes vir­ldozers, trucks, and forklifts Strikers occupied the cityDec. 20. of the main opposition Demo­tually illegal and helped boost 
and sat down outside the city hall area for several hoursThey also agreed that the cratic Reunification Party. South Korea's export-based 
hall. after wage talks broke down at government should not inter­Roh is his party's candidate to economy by keeping wages the Hyundai Heavy Industries 
vene in labor disputes and succeed President Chun Doo­low. Part of the crowd stormed Co. shipyard.promised legislation to in­Hwan, whose term ends in Workers i.n mining, transpor­the building, set fire to its ga­crease the rights of workers. December. tation, and major export indus­rage and overturned about 20 Police used tear gas to dis­
But labor turmoil continued Chun declared June 30, after tries began strikes and other cars, burning some of them. perse 500 auto workers who as striking shipyard workers weeks of anti-government job actions within days of his Firetrucks were called in to built barricades at the Daewoo went on a rampage, and protest, that he would accept speech, demanding higher pay, put out the fires, but outnum-Motor Co. plant outside Seoul. 
~--------~----------------------~~----------------------------~ 
page 2 
In· Brief ~ · 
Jesse Jackson plans to disclose Monday whether he will be a candidate for the presidency in 1988. Jackson, who has given every indication that he intends to repeat his 1984 bid for the Democratic nomination, will reveal his decision on ABC-TV's "Good Morning America," and then make a Labor Day swing through three Eastern cities. -Associated Press 
Gary Hart will face questions about his political future and personal life on a special one-hour edition of ABC's "Nightline" next week, spokesmen said Wednesday. The Sept. 8 show will be the first time Hart has agreed to answer questions since speculation erupted last month that he might re-enter the race. -Associated Press 
Spurned as ugly, University of Nebraska football team mascots Harry and Herbie Husker won't be lumber­ing along the sidelines Saturday when the Cornhuskers play Utah State. Harry, whose huge, fiberglass cowboy head has bobbed benignly at Nebraska games since 1974, has been retired. Herbie, Harry's fuzzy and bug-eyed sidekick in bib overalls, is being redesigned to more closely resemble his blond plowboy image printed on university­sanctioned souvenirs like beer mugs and toilet seats. "He was ugly, among other things," Nebraska official Gary Fouraker said. Associated Press 
An American Airlines 727 with 31 passengers and a crew of six made a safe emergency landing Wednesday after the pilot reported an engine fire, the Federal Aviation Administration said. The passengers and crew of Flight 907 en route to Tampa from Nashville were evacuated by emergency chute when the plane landed at 12: 10 pm EDT at Tampa International Airport, an airline spokesman said. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
I 
~ 
Thursday, September 3, 1987
The Observer 

No ideas remain for today's inside column 
"Four little Indians going out to sea; A red herring swallowed one and then there were three." 
-Agatha Christie, "And Then There were None." 
Writing this week's column was akin to being in the novel "And Then There Were None." I had four ideas for the column; each with Pulitzer Prize written all over it. 
The first was a classic. What could be better than a column about how pretty and intelligent Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women are? 
I began writing: "The encounter occurred in a bar in Florida over the summer. 'Where is Notre Dame?' the tall, beautiful blonde asked. 'California?' 
'No,' I said. 'It's in Indiana.' 
'Ohhhhh,' she replied. 'Hey ... I'm from In­diana.' 
"I can't wait to get back to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," I wrote. "There, the women are good looking and intelligent." 
"That's not such a good idea," said Editor­in-Chief Kevin Becker, who was reading over my shoulder. "It sounds too sexist." 
And then there were three. 

That's all right, I thought. I had a great idea about the trials and tribulations of looking younger than my 21 years. 
Again it was classic prose: 

"The dental assistant was cleaning my teeth this summer, attempting to make small talk. 'So when do you graduate from high school?' she asked. 'Ouch,' I said." 
This is great stuff, I said to myself. I pounded out a few more humorous words. 
"That's not that funny,'' said Accent Editor Mike Naughton, who had walked by my termi­nal. "You need to exaggerate to make it funny." 
I'm not exaggerating, I said. 
And then there were two. 

No problem, I thought. I'll write about the dating situation at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's--or the lack thereof. The column would rank right up there with award-winning pieces by Bob Greene, and even (gasp) Mike Royko. I starting writing: 
"'I've been here only a week and already I'm tired of parties,' a Notre Dame junior com­mented the other day. 
She's right, you know. Parties seem to be the only social outlet around here. Dating ap­parently has gone the way of the $10 textbook.'' 
"Somebody wrote a column just like that last year," a reporter reminded me. "And besides, it'll look like you're trying to get a date.'' 
r-----
SObering 

CHIPS
Advice _.··~ 

THURSDAYS 10 CENT BEER
ca_nsa~e
.. 

must be 21 ur'proper i. d.
I
alife , , 

746 S. Eddy
h 
I 

#233-4858.r.· 
I 

Mark PankOWSki 
Managing Editor 

And then there was one. 
No problem, I said to myself. I've still got 

one good idea left. No, a great idea. I'll write 
about the reasons freshmen give for wanting to 
work at The Observer. 
I began writing, using the answers freshmen 
gave at Activities Night to the question "Why 
do you wish to work for The Observer?" 
There were the straight-forward answers: 
"For the hell of it." 
There were the complimentary answers: "I 
want experience working on a paper and be­
sides --The Observer is great! ! '' And there 
were the not-so-complimentary: "I find it sadly 
lacking in a firm position aganst a number of 
outrageous attacks on student rights. Also, I 
think commies run it."' 
The column ended with a pitch for students 
to come to tonight's open-house meeting. "No 
matter what your reason,'' I wrote. 
"You're not really going to write that,'' Be­
cker said after I told him my latest idea. "It 
sounds too much like we're tooting our own 
horn." 

You're probably right, I said. 
And then there were none. 
' I' 
I 
I 
-· 
Mandatory Senior Class trip meeting for all those going to Jamaica, tonight at the Alumni-Senior Club ,at 7:30p.m. Bring the balance due. There are still 20 spots available. For information, call Tara at 271-0923, Kyle at 1141, or Karen at 284-5204. -The Observer WVFI news staff meeting for all reporters tonight at 6:00p.m. in 120 O'Shaughnessey. This will be the only scheduling meeting all semester. For more information, contact Lynsey Strand at 2548. -The Observer Shenanigans auditions information meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. in 219 O'Shaugnessey. The meeting will explain the audition process and the group's plans for the year. -The Observer Michigan ticket lottery sign-ups are today and tommorrow for the NDMichigan game in Ann Arbor. Sign­up in the S.U.B. Office on the second floor of Lafortune from 1 p.m. to 4:00p.m. The 250 winners will be notified by Monday and given information about purchasing tick­ets. -The Observer St. Joseph's Medical Center has a volunteer program available to all students. Anyone interested can attend a meeting on Friday at 4:30p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer  
We want to know! If you see or hear of anything you consider newsworthy, let us know. Call The Observer news desk at 239-5303 anytime, day or night.  
De•ign Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Luxem Sports Copy Editor.. ...... Rick Ritbrock De•ign as•istant .. ........... Pete Lafleur ........................._, ___ , .. ___ ,,,Pete Skiko Layout Staff............. Burnadette Shilts Accent Copy Editor ........... Beth Healy ................._................... Renee Zawada Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Julie Collinge Typesetters .. . .. .. . Paul Babka Typists.. _._ ................... Jennifer Conlon New• Editor.. .. Scott Bearby ......................................... Lynn Ewing Copy Editor.. .. ........ Matt Crowley ND Day Editor ............. Kathy McKee SMC Day Editor ........ Suzanne Devine Tile Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile ObserYer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Tile Oblerver is a member of Tile Assodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

BANKING ... 

ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of L·! hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m ~Source 
..:·aank

Join Michiana's 1st Team 
for unsurpassed banking service! Member F.D.l.C. 
Thursday, September 3, 1987 The Observer page 3 
Senior chosen CK International President 
By LIZ PORTER 
News Staff 
Scott Bearby, a senior Government-ALP A major, recently became the first Notre Dame Circle K mem­ber elected President of the International Circle K or­ganization. 
Elected by popular vote, Bearby presented a prepared platform and cam­paigned for his office at a 600 member convention held in St. Louis last August. 
The Circle K organization is the largest organization at the collegiate level devoted to leadership and service de­velopment. The main goals of the organization include individual leadership devel­opment, as well as involve­ment with social service projects. 
An affiliate of Kiwanis, collegiate CKI clubs func­tion on local, district, nation­al, and international levels. The organization also spon­sors special social events, promoting friendship among club members. 
Any Circle K member may run for an international office, but experience working with the Circle K or­ganization plays a large role in a candidate's bid for of­fice. 
Bearby had the necessary experience, serving as Inter­national CKI Secretary in college and having been in­volved in high school with Key Club. 
Acting as International President, Bearby presides over Circle K chapters in seven nations in North America. Satellite groups also exist in South America, Europe, and Asia. North American countries in­volved with CKI include Canada, the United States, Mexico, Jamaica, and the Bahamas. 
Because of long distances, Bearby will not travel to all the internatiolllal Circle K or­ganizations. He will, however, visit a large num­ber of Circle K districts in the United States and Canada, exchanging infor­mation and id1~as with other club members. 
As well as his correspond­ence with Circle K districts, he will also serve as the Chairman of the CKI Board of Trustees. 
Comprised of eleven stu­dents, this board's major projects include club mem­bership development, and activity planning and man­agement. 
According to Bearby, the incorporation of leadership development in a social ser­vice group is the most ap­pealing aspect of member­ship in the Circle K club. 
Bearby said, "The organi­zation has been very good to me. It has helped me develop my leadership capa­bilities, while providing me with the opportunity to meet a lot of great people." 
Serving as chief executive officer of a non-profit or­ganization, commented Bearby, also presents him with many new career con­tacts. 
Through his new posi­tion,he brings recognition to the University of Notre Dame and its Circle K club, 


St.joe Bank, Now Open On Notre Dame Campus 

.~·:..;,,_.;_, 

St. joe Bank now has a Full Service Banking Center in LaFortune Student Center. We're right on your way to wherever you're going, and our extended hours let you bank when other banks are closed. 
Our Notre Dame Banking Center package offers every­
thing you nzed from a bank, and more: 0 Free chec:king for students, faculty and staff. 0 $5.00 ofryour first order of checks. 0 Free ADVANTAGE 24 hour banking card with access to 
the CIRRUS nationwide network. 0 VISA card with discounted annual fee (subject to credit worthiness). 0 Free VISA Traveler Checks. 
And of course we will be offering additional services such as financial counseling, tax planning, car financing at competitive rates, international money orders and wire transfers. 
To open your free checking account package stop by our office ir. the lower level ofLaFortune Student Center. For more information about all our banking services call: 
237-54ND 
·...,...
·.,

&11...1111111111
........... ,_ 
. ·., ~ 

'· ~ ~ . .. . .
........ ·~ ~; ·.,
.., ..... .· \ 
J,_.o.eycauldliiA.I...tll,.aSt)ae. 
LaFortune Student Center, lower level 
Monday-Friday iO a.m. -7 p.m. 
Saturday 10 a.m. -1 p.m. 
~ «:> 1987 St. Joseph Bancorporation Member FDIC 
SMC hall slated for dedication 
By SHANNON McGOWAN 
Staff Reporter 
The newly renovated Saint Mary's College Science Hall will be dedicated on Oct. 10. 
At 10:30 a.m. a mass of thanksgiving will be celebrated in the Holy Spirit Chapel of LeMans Hall. 
Following, there will be a luncheon for special guests in the Haggar College Center, said Mary Gerber, Director of Special Events and Programs. 
The formal dedication ceremonies will begin at 1 p.m. with an academic procession and ceremony at the main en­trance of the Science Hall. 
The theme for the ceremony is 'Achievements of Women in Science. 
The Reverend Ernan McMullin of the University of Notre Dame will preside over the dedication. 
The main speaker for the dedication symposium address is Mary L. Good, president of the American Chemical Soci­ety. 
She will also be the recipient of an honorary degree in recognition of her many ac­complishments, according to Gerber. 
Several prominent women scientists will also be present for the dedication. 
At 2 p.m. the symposium will begin in Carroll Auditorium. Other participants in the sym­posium will be Catherine Har­
mon  '67,  Terri  Menke  
Hargrave  '68,  Barbara  
Spakowski  Slatt  '71,  and  

Monica Creamer '79. A reception follows in the sci­ence hall. 
At approximately 3:45 p.m. tours of the science hall will depart from the main lobby. 
Throughout the building there will be various exhibits of the Chemistry, Biology, and Physics departments on dis­play. 
The holographic works of Douglas Tyler, Assistant Pro­fessor of Art, will also be on display. 
The cornerstone of the build­ing sums up the spirit of the dedication ceremonies "Great are the works of God to be pon­dered by all who love them"(Psalm 3:2). 
The greenhouse and some of the rooms in the classroom complex will also be dedicated, Gerber said. 
Missiles 
continued from page 1 
course, withdraw the war­heads," Oakley said. 
"We really don't get into the definition beyond that of what would happen to them," she continued. "They would be withdrawn ... I am not defining what withdrawal means. We are simply saying that we will 
withdraw  them  from  the  
Federal  Republic  of  Ger­ 
maiiJ·'·  



An item in the Of Interest section of Wednesday's Ob­server was incorrect. Stu­dents changing classes after Wednesday are not subject to a fine; only those enroll­ing after that day. 

r 
r 
t 
page 4 
Low Price 
Fruits & Vegetables 

Fruit Cocktail, choice 49~ 
quality. heavy syrup. 16 oz. .... . 

:.~J!~~~=n~~~5 oz ...........49~ Hawaiian Pineapple, fancy quality. sliced. chunk. crushed. 59~ 
juice pack. 20 oz. ............. . Irregular Peaches 59"'
Califorma. light syrup. 29 oz. . . . . ._,. 
;,o:zk ~-~~~~~ ..............49~ WholeKernelorCream 
25"' 
StyleCorn,gradeAfancy.16.5oz. ._,. Cut Green Beans 25~ 
grade Afancy. 15.5 oz. ........ . Sweet Peas, medium size 25~ 
grade Afancy. 16 oz. .. ........ . 

~e':hf~~~:.4oz ..........39~ 
Charcoal 
Briquets 1111111 
20 pound
bag 
ALDI 
Low Price 
pkg.of3 
ALDI 
Low Price 
Juices and Drinks 

Soda Pop, all flavors. J5~ regular & d1et. 12 oz. • ••••••••.•. 
~~cnhc~. ~!~~~ -~~~~~~.......99~ 
:,~!1 ~ ~~!~~4 oz ...........99~ 100% Pure Orange Juice 99"' 
unsweetened. grade Afancy. 46oz. . ._,. 
Prepared Foods 

Chunk Light Tuna 49~ 
water or oil pack. 6.5 oz........ . 

~2~c:zr~~-i. ~ -~~~~-~~-........J9~ Elbow Macaroni or Long 69~ 
Spaghetti, 2 lb. .. ......... . Rice & Vermicelli Mix 

49"' 
beef or chicken flavor, 8 oz. . . . . . ._,. 
Potato 
2Liter 
£hips 
variety, 
!?t~-Pop
flavor•
~=~p~ound 
I r. 
'I t;fl 
~1;2! 49~ 
The Observer 
Condiments and Spreads 

;:!:~~ancy. 32 oz. ..........69~ :~~p~~~ ~~~~~ -~~~-~~~~-~·..79~ ~~!ao~ ~~-~t-~~~..............49~ 
Richelieu Western SJ99 
Dressing, 32 oz.............. . 

~:d~~~!~~r3~~!c.~i-~~-.....79~ Peanut Butter, creamy or SJI9 
chunky, grade Afancy. 18 oz....... . 

Cookies and Snacks ~~~~u-~~~~~-~~~~~~-r-~ .....99~ ~6a~zd~i-~~-~~~~~~~ ........99~ ~ho~c~~-~~~-~~~~-~~-~~-i~-~ ..79~ ;~:.n.~~~~-~ .................49~ ~~~,c~~-~~ -~-~~-~~-..........79~ 
M&M'a Pounders ' SJ49 plain or peanut, 16 oz.... ·........ 
Baktng Supplies 


Thursday, September 3, 1987 
Our highest quality coffee, at our lowest 
•

prtce ever. 
fora
2pound bag. 
Household Items 

iu~:'~o~~~~~~-..............39~ ~~~m. ~~~~~~-...............99~ ~~~~~ !n!!!~e~ ..............79~ 
G.E. Light Bulbs · SJ99 60 or 100 wall. pkg. of 4 ......... . 
U.S. #1 grade101b.bag 

ALI;)I99~
Low Pnce wassu9 
Bread & Pastry 


Speeial Purehase 
Golden Book 'N' Tepe lA1 n99 
Story Seta  8-.  
Picture Collection  5'199  
Frames, 16"x20'  ~  

Pillows. polyester Fiberfill. jjq99
20"x26" -~·. Satin Pillows, polyester jjq99fiberfill, 20'x26' -~ . Beacon Blankets, solid 5'199 
colors, 100% polyester. 72"x90' ~ Beacon Blankets, prints. 5599 
100% polyester. 72'x90" 

These are not weekly specials. These are everyday ALDI®low prices. 
929N. Eddy South Bend, IN 

Mon.-Thurs.: 10am • 7pm Friday: 9am -8pm Saturday: 9am -6pm Closed SUnday 
3207 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 9am -7pm 
Friday: 9am -8pm 
Saturday: 9am -6pm 
Closed Sunday 
c 1987 ALDIInc. 
Dairy and Lunch Meat 
Price Reductions! 
Premium Margarine qtrs.. 16 oz. (was 29C) 2Sc 
NEW! LOW PRICE 
Vegetable Oil Spread 16 oz. (was 25C) J9e 
NEW! LOW PRICE 
Imperial Margarine 16 oz. (was 49C) J9c 
NEW! LOW PRICE 
Frozen Foods 
Orange Juice, grade A 69~ 
fancy. concentrate. 12 oz. • ••••• Totino's Pizza 
89"' 
sausage or comb~naloon. 11.2 oz. ._,. ~~~~~~.~~:.' ~~~i~~-....... S299 ;;~~~~~ZFI~-~ -~~~~~~ ........ S249 
Ice Cream, 5 qt pail S299 
rainbow sherbet or fudge swirl ••.•• 


Thursday, September 3, 1987 The Observer page 5 


Students take time out from a busy schedule to relax in front of the Memorial Fountain 

Iran, Iraq continue Gulf ship attacks 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrian -Iranian speedboats and Iraqi warplanes attacked at least seven ships in the Persian Gulf within 24 hours, and U.S. war­ships prepared on VVednesday to escort more tankers through the war zone. 
The Iraqis reported a fifth day of air raids on Iranian ship­ping, oil fields and other indus­trial targets. Iran said its ar­tillery shelled military and industrial installations in southern Iraq, and Iranian planes struck in the northern area of the 730-mile border warfront. 
Eighteen attacks on ships have been reported and 13 con­firmed since Iran and Iraq, which have been at war since September 1980, resumed their "tanker war" last weekend after a six-week lull. 
Shipping executives, speak­ing privately, said the 13 con­firmed attacks in less than a week compare with monthly averages of six in 1984-85 and eight to 10 last year. 

Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency quoted Prime Minister Hussein Musavi as declaring VVednes­day that a policy of "blow for blow will be pursued in a cal­culated fashion." 
Dispatches from the Iraqi News Agency reported attacks VVednesday on two "large maritime targets," which usually means ships, and an Iraqi attack on a Cypriot tanker Tuesday was con­firmed. Iraq's reports do not identify ships attacked. 
The latest confirmed Iraqi raid was on the small offshore supply ship Big Orange 14. It was reported sunk by an air­fired missile late Tuesday near Kharg Island, Iran's main oil export terminal in the northern gulf. 
One shipping source in the United Arab Emirates, where the vessel was based, said all seven of its Indian and Sri Lankan crew were missing. Another said five had been rescued, quoting sources close to the owners. 
No one answered the tele­phone at the owner's office. 
Two empty Kuwaiti tankers and their U.S. navy escorts reached the sheikdom at the head of the gulf Tuesday. The warships are expected to make the return trip with three ves­sels that have been loaded and waiting for days. 
Iran accuses Kuwait of re­ceiving arms shipments for its neighbor Iraq, whose ports were closed soon after the war began, and since last Septem­ber has been attacking ships owned by or serving the sheik­dom. Eleven of Kuwait's 21 tankers have been given the American flag so Navy ships can protect them. Convoys began July 21. Speedboats operated by Iranian commandos fired on a 

A Unique and Exciting Opportunity for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students: 
A SEMESTER IN 
JERUSALEM 
(for the same price as a semester on campus) 
Greek tanker and Cypriot freighter during the day VVed­
Wednesday, September 16 8:00pm 
nesday after overnight attacks Washilltgton Hall on tankers of South Korean, Ja­panese and Spanish registry. A Tickets on sale at the Washington speedboat raked a Kuwait-flag container ship with machine
Hall box office M4-M6 12-6 pm 
gun fire Monday.0 No injuries were reported
$4.00 NMMC student ~~ ~~~ 
and all the ships either reached nearby ports or continued on
$8.00 public ~~~ ~ ~ 
their way, according to ship­For information, ~~0 ~~~~ ~0tt~-"' ping salvage executives and 0 Lloyd's Shipping Intelligence. 
call 23H-7757 ~~ ~ 
·--~~~~..·················· FRESHMAN PICNIC 
at Lake Michigan Dunes Sunday, September 6, 1987 
Buses leave Stepan Center 
11:00 A.M. Return at 6:00 P.M. 
Tickets available at the Freshman Year of Studies Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 
$3.00 charge includes transportation, lunch and cookout dinner 
.................................................. 
Earn regular Notre Dame credit for the following courses: ···Hebrew··· Arabic··· ···Judaism, Christianity, and Islam··· ···Biblical Geography and Archaeology··· ···Middle Eastern Politics··· 
APPLY NOW! Application Deadline for the Spring of 1988 is October 15. 1987 
CALL OR COME SEE 
--~~---------~----------------------------~------------~~~~----------------------------~--.. 
Thursday, September 3, 1987 
page 6 The Observer 

Alumni Association offices. 
r 
' 
Philippine coup plans divulged 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -Con­spirators in plots leading to last week's bloody coup attempt discussed killing Americans and burning CIA headquarters in Manila, the government said Wednesday. 
A general who commanded the army under deposed Pres­ident Ferdinand E. Marcos was involved in plotting a military takeover, said the report, prepared by President Corazon Aquino's security force and released by the Presidential Palace. 
Aquino, in a national broad­cast Wednesday, said 53 people were killed in Friday's coup at­tempt, including 12 loyal sol­diers, 19 rebel troops and 22 civilians. 
Hundreds were wounded, in­cluding her son, Benigno Aquino III. 
Col. Gregorio "Gringo" Honasan, who led the coup at­tempt, remained at large, and the military intensified air and ground searches for him in Manila and north and east of the capital. 
The "after battle" report said Marcos loyalists met July 14 at a Manila restaurant to dis­cuss "CIA support for des­tabilization," bombing cam­paigns, the assassination of three unidentified Americans and "burning of CIA headquarters." 
It did not elaborate. attack" last June, but it was 
It named Maj. Gen. Josephus postponed. Ramas, former army com­The charges about killing mander, as being involved in Americans and assaulting the plotting a military takeover. CIA bureau were in the back­
Aquino fired Ramas after ground part of the report, and taking power in a February it was unclear whether all the 1986 civilian-military uprising alleged plots were part of the that ousted Marcos, who fled to same conspiracy and why Hawaii. other plots were postponed. 
Maj. Gen. Eduardo Ermita, 
The report said intelligence deputy chief of staff, declined agents learned that Ramas and comment and said he was un­Honasan planned a "blitzkrieg aware of the report. 

NEED A BIRTHDAY CAKE (or) FRESH BAKED GOODS? The Notre Dame Student Cake Service can help you. Fill-out order for below & mail to: make check payable to: P.O. Box 191 (don't use NO Student Cake Service NO, IN 46556 campus mail) 
Delivery Date.............................. Sen:e~~o::me 
.................................... 
Reclplenfs Name & Addres11 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Cakes:slzes: &"(serves 10) $15.50 flavors: white banana 10"(serves 20) $20.00 chocolate half sheet(serves 35) $24.50 German choc.(8" only) 
CHEESECAKES(&"): plain $10.50 Icing: white wl fruit $12·50 --chocolate(add 1.50) BAGELS: $5.00 per dozen 
PARTY KIT: $2.50-includes plates Doughnuts: Variety Box 
forks, napkins, candles, $4.50 per dozen & a knife 
West German pilotadmits mistake 
Associated Press The flight led to a shake-up 
of the Soviet military establish­
MOSCOW -West German ment. teen-ager Mathias Rust Rust faces charges of apologized to a Soviet court hooliganism, illegally crossing Wednesday for flying a single­the Soviet border and violating engine plane into Red Square. international flight rules, and He said it started as a mission he could get 10 years in prison. of peace but ended as the The trial is expected to last greatest mistake of his life. three days. 
"My flight was not the best Dressed in a blue suit, a light action to bring this about. I'm blue shirt and tie, Rust called very sorry," Rust, a 19-year­himself "a very sentimental old resident of suburban Ham­man" who meant no harm to burg, said during nearly five anyone. hours of testimony on the first He said he wanted to meet day of trial at the Soviet Su­with Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­preme Court. bachev to discuss a new politi­
It was his first public appear­cal system that would bring ance since he piloted a Cessna east and west together it:I "full 172b across the Soviet border democracy, democracy in the on May 28 and set it down amid fullest sense of the word." hundreds of astonished "I sought the source of peace, pedestrians on Red Square and the source of peace is not near the Kremlin, the seat of in Washington, but in Mos­Soviet power. cow," said Rust. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Looking for JPW executive committee. Applications available in the Student Activities Office or from Noel Murtha in 429 P. W. Due Sept II. 
SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS 
Pictures to be taken Sept. 7 through Sept. 25 
Sign up during dinner times in the North or South Dining Halls 
* Off-Campus Seniors sign up in the Dome 
office Tuesday, Sept. 1 and Wednesday, Sept · 2 from 3:00-4:30pm 


Thursday, September 3, 1987 
The Observer page 7 

Hoosiers obey limits~ .. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The 65 mph speed limit that took effect June 1 on rural interstates has had a negligible effect on the number of traffic fatalities in Indiana, a state police spokes­man said Wednesday. 
State police recorded 17 in­terstate traffic fatalities from May 29 to Sept. 2, compared with 15 during the same period last year when the maximum speed on all highways was 55 mph. 
"There's no way, statistical­ly, that can be significant," Lt. Ken Hollingsworth said. 
Hollingsworth said he believes the attitude among In­diana motorists has played the biggest role in keeping the death count down in Indiana when some other states are reporting increases. 
"We in our state have reason to believe that the public has pretty well accepted the 65 mph limit as a fair speed and that people are going 65," he said. "Voluntary compliance is playing a large part in this." 
Although the number of in­terstate deaths since the speed limit increased is two greater than m the same period last year, the year-to·date count is up by six, for a total of 36 fatalities. However, Hol­lingsworth said that still is a statistically insignificant in­crease. 
He added that when traffic deaths on all rural roads are considered, the year-to-date number actually has decreased by 13, from 504 last year to 491 this year. 
About 850 of the 1,119 miles of interstates in Indiana were affected by the new law, which raised the speed limit from 55 mph to 65 mph on interstates located outside cities with populations of 55,000 or more. 
Hollingsworth said compli­ance with the law is evident not only in the fatality figures but also in reports from officers patrolling the highways. 
As an example, he noted that a trooper who clocked 100 cars in a central Indiana county recently found only seven ex­ceeding 65 mph and, of them, only two were going faster than 10 mph, Hollingsworth said. 
IIFollow the Fighting Irish to u of M" 
September 11, 12, 13 
PlyJmuth Hilton Inn 
][ 
$9900 plustax 

3 days & 2 night package 
• 
20 minutes to the Stadium 

• 
Newly renovated 

• 
Indoor pool & recreation area 


'I , 
II II 1 
.., II
14 
''!* 
II II ·1 
'~/... ) 
•• ,~j --4J I
-t: .L.~ , 

1 
1 
AP Photo 

The pa11y's over 
The saga of the infamous garbage barge is al­preparation for the incinerator in Brooklyn. most wrap]!Jed up as its bales are inspected in 
Birtl11 rate, lifespans hit new records 

KNOLLWOOD 
Help wanted 
2 part time 
positions available 
-1 morning; 1 afternoon; -weekends involved -will pay minimum wage up to $3.75 -apply in person ask for John 277-1541 
o\ ~ ~lUES BROtHERS 
O,l?J 

~~~*-0 MON-FRI, 7th-11th SEPT ~ 9:00am-6:00pm 
West Point Conference Room 
(off the main lounge) 
LaFortune Student Center 
FROM ONLY $3.00! 
from 74.7 years reported in 1985. 
The highest life expectancy was 78.9 years for white females, up from 78.7 a year earlier. White males saw an in­crease from 71.8 to 72.0 years. 
Black life expectancy rose from 65.3 to 65.5 years for men, but declined from 73.7 to 73.6 years for women, the center's annual summary of vital sta­tistics reported. 
Births totaled 3,731,000, down 18,000 from 1985. That represented 64.9live births per 1,000 women aged 15 to 44, 2 percent below last year and the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, the report said. 
The drop reflects the trend of recent years, as many young people have postponed mar­riage and families to pursue education and careers. 
Social scientists have debated in recent years whe­ther this represents merely a delay in having children or a decision ~ot to have families. Only time,will disclose the an­swer as the children of the post­World War II baby boom pass through their prime childbear­ing years. 
Trends in the number of an­nual births are affected by two factors, the rate of births among women and the number of women in the childbearing ages. 
The Census Bureau has projected that the total number of women in the prime childbearing ages will remain substantially the same through the remainder of this decade. 
Turning to marriages, the center reported 2,400,000 in 1986, down about 25,000 from 1985. 
That represents a national marriage rate of 10.0 per 1,000 people, down from 10.2 a year earlier and the lowest rate since 1977, when it was 9.9. 
The all-time high marriage rate occurred in the boom im­mediately following the return of the soldiers after World War II, when 16.4 marriages per 1,000 people were recorded in 1946. The bottom was in 1932 at 7.9. 


levels in a decade, the govern­ment reported Wednesday. 
Average life expectancy "in 1986 reached a new record high of 74.9 years," said the Center for Health Statistics, an arm of the Department of Health and Human Services. That was up Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The na­tion's fertility rate fell to a record low last year, while life expectancy reached a record high and marriage and divorce rates dipped to the lowest 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 3, 1987
eage 8 
Individual identity absent from campus 

On my first day back at Notre Dame after a rather brief summer, my sister, her roommate and I ventured to the Huddle for pizza after an exhausting day of moving. At one point I noticed an oddly-dressed character sporting a perfectly ridiculous haircut and iras­cible blurted something to the effect of, "I wonder who's responsible for admit­ting jerks like him to this university." Had I not been so tired and cranky, I probably would have kept my mouth shut; but diplomacy was the least of my concerns, and, anyway, the jerk was out of earshot. 
Paul Newett 
just say 'nyet' 
My sister's friend tactfully replleo that she thought it was a good thing to have some diversity among the student body, that not everyone look and act so "conservatively." Having precious little energy remaining to chew and swallow, let alone argue, I granted the point, resumed eating, and let the sub­ject change. 
A day or two later, I read in the pages of this exalted journal that, for the first time in the history of Notre Dame, ten percent of the freshman class was com­posed of minority students. It may be safely assumed that the administration encouraged a greater percentage of minorities in the class of 1991 at least partly for the sake of diversity. 
All of this presupposes that heterogeneity benefits the university and its members; indeed, by definition a university embraces all who wish to pursue higher knowledge and the truth. I do not dispute this at all. But it is utterly preposterous to suggest that we constitute a marvelously diverse stu­dent body, as most of us would probably contend. Quite to the contrary, our backgrounds, our reasons for being here, and our notions of success and happiness are so remarkably similar that any deviation from the norm looks very peculiar to us. We are incorrigible conformists. The surface appearances that do differ are meaningless; moral­ly, we are appallingly alike. 
Most of us are children of affluence, and not unjustifiably we would like to maintain our cushy existence, both for ourselves and for our own children. But we are not merely concerned about 
Doonesbury 
MARCIA? HI, IT's ME. 50RR.Y 
ABOUT&lNG SUCH A JERJ<. 
AT fJfNNER./A5TN16HT. I GUE£6 
AFTCR AU. THIS TIM&, I'M 5TIU. . A l/TTl& SHAKYABOUTIIJI&RE 
·P/13 STANI?... • .._,___ 
wealth; we are poisonously preoc­cupied with it. Here we spend four years taking a smattering of courses that will ensure our sale to the highest bidder amond the might bastions of cor­porate America; the rest is pleasant irrelevance, a brief reprieve before our inevitable sacrifice at the altar of com­merce. 
Most of us, too, find our ultimately pointless elective courses enjoyable, for they attempt to satisfy our feeble desire for true knowledge and the answers to the eternal questions. But God forbid that we should be required to put forth great effort, or fall into the clenches of some neofacist professor who incomprehensibly has a lower opinion of our effort than we invariably do. This term has only just begun, but soon the halls of the university will resonate with the incessant petulant whining of wronged geniuses. If the Al­mighty is indeed in His heaven, the in­violate sanctity of the grade point average will be preserved. 
And if all goes well, as it usually does, then we shall end our little holiday upon receiving a nice, pretty piece of paper to frame and hang on the wall to remind us of those halcyon days before we wal­lowed in the nasty business of stepping on people five days a week. But a delusory memento it will be, leading us to think that we were once vibrant members of a university, when in fact we were merely attending a finishing school for automatons. 
So it matters not a whit how many characters like the poor chap in the Huddle are allowed free rein of "self­expression" thanks to our silly egalitarianism. The thirst for diversity induces us to laud a misguided iconoclast who has embraced a very superficial form of nonconformity for its own sake. But this bizarre-looking fellow is really no different from the rest of us. After he gets his pretty piece of paper, he will ditch the screwy hair­cut, dress like a normal person again, give his execrable albums to his kid brother, and march ingloriously in step with the rest of humanity to the beat of the bottom line. Nowhere in the history of civilization is it recorded that the moral improvement of society was brought about by the proliferation of poor taste. 
And what of the unprecedented ten percent of this year's freshman class mentioned above? Can they help us cure our pernicious ills? Contrary to prevailing wisdon, the answer is very much in doubt. Many of them, happily, will be accepted by the majority but sadly assimilated into the decadence of our generation. Others, unforgivably, will fall victim to the subtle racism that persists here as anywhere else. Wel­come them, but expect nothing wonder­ful. 
In the seventeenth century, Pascal wrote, "It is a monstrous thing to see one and the same heart at once so sensi­tive to minor things and so strangely insensitive to the greatest." Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose. 
Paul Newett is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular View­point columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Foreign policy 
needs Congress 
Dear Editor: 

In his editorial of August 31, 1987, Mr. Kevin Smant states that " ... Congressional involvement in foreign affairs is not new." If Mr. Smant were to consult a copy of the Constitution of the United States of America, he would read that, while "The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy,"(Article II, Section 2) only" The Congress shall have Power .... To declare war ... (and)To make rules for the Gov­ernment and Regulation of the Land and Naval Forces." (Article I, Section 8) 
No, Congressional involvement in foreign affairs goes back a long way. If General George Washington could live by the Constitution, why can't Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North? 
John E. Jaspers Off-campus 
TH~M 


Garry Trudeau 

ZONKER?
I ALIJJAY5 THO/JSHTIAE 
OKAY, THEN. " Cf..ll<f : 
fAJ!TNesss. 

IUifRe Jl/ST~8lJ/)-Dl'GHT. 
H&Y. .. WHO
(j(}()(). a£ ~Ct.!I<! ' 

HOWON, I
PI$. YOlJ KNOIAI, NO lVI • 
' 

MI57HATON 
HAV&7VLET

aJMM/7711CNT, NO I 
YOUR&XTEN­
lHEMOUT. 

/lfARI?IAGe, JUST Tlt/0 fi!U't&HAP­py 7lJ BeAlON/3 
7rJGI37HCR, 
R/6HT? 

Quote of the Day 
"Christians are supposed not merely to endure change, nor even profit by it, but to cause it." 
Harry Emerson Fosdick 
General Board

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ........................... Brian P. Murray
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor ............................. Mark Pankowski Photo Editor ............................................. Jim Carroll News Editor ...................................... Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ................... Melinda Chapleau News Editor ................................................ Jim Riley Production Manager ....................... Melissa Warnke 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University Viewpoint Editor ................................... Chris Murphy Projects Manager .......................... Mark McLaughlin of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively Accent Editor ............................... Michael Naughton Controller ......................................... Tracy Schindele as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Saint Mary's Editor ..........................Marilyn Benchik Graphic Arts Manager ....................... Laura Stanton Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column Advertising Design Manager.......... Oavid Culligan space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
-----~---~----­
Accent
Thursday, September 3, 1987 
page 9 

Is your roommc:~te straight from 
MIKE NAUGHTON bend, no matter how hard you Brady's attic. try, you will not be able to get 2. The Roommate from Hell along with this person. tastes everything In the care 
T 
he second greatest myth of At first you wonder if the fault package that you get from the twentieth century is is yours; you call COUNSELINE home, and puts back the that college roommates auto­and ask for tape number I things he doesn't like.
-matically get along. Friendship Building. You call 3. The Roommate from Hell According to popular fiction, 
again and listen to tape num­has a 100-watt stereo which Is you and your freshman-year 
ber 7 -Expressing Negative wired Into the light switch. roommate will become best 
Thoughts and Feelings; a week 4. The Roommate from Hell friends, save each others lives, later you ask for tape number has a 14-year old girlfriend and become the best man or 50 -Understanding Eating Dis­who calls every night. bridesmaid at each other's orders. (There is nothing wrong 5. The Roommate from Hell weddings. with your eating habits but at has alumni 111arents who visit Don't believe It for a second. 
this stage you figure that no every saturday morning at 8 Putting two or more young advice can make your relation­a.m. adults In a room which would ship any worse than it has be­6. The Roommate from Nell 
make a dressing room seem come.) 
has an alarn1 clock which can extravagant and then expecting 
A few more days of dor­drown out a 747 but not his them to establish a workable mitory distress go by. You snoring. relationship is an act of cruelty realize that psychology is not 7. The Roommate from Hell of such caliber that it makes 
the answer and call Notre cleans out your wardrobe and animal research seem pleasant. 
Dame legal aid --you want to throws away any clothes that 
Unless you and your room­know if there is a death penalty he thinks you don't need. mate are the result of a cloning in Indiana for premeditated 8. The Roommate from Nell experiment gone awry, getting murder. 
can't flnd the snooze button to along is a full-time job with Unfortunately, murder is an his alarm In the morning. bear-traps waiting to be sprung inadequate solution. You might 9. The Roommate from Hell at every point in the day. From get into trouble, and room­gets up early In the morning that hair dryer whirring at 6 mates from hell have a habit of to hunt for <:ockroaches In 
a.m. to the television turned on never ever going away. There your sink. When he flnds any 
until after the national anthem is very little that you can do he exterminates them with a on a sunday night your room about a roomate from hell, but can of Right Guard and a Blc without asking; then he alters your bed --while you're In it. is the battleground for a war of the first step in confronting any lighter. them so they fit him. 19. The Roommate from 
wills and tastes. Only through a enemy is to find out exactly 10. The f>oomate from Hell 15. The Roommate from Hell borrows your underwear .. 
process of give and take, cau­what you are up against. brings his friends over on Hell Is always sleeping when then he puts It back In your tion and compromise can you In order to determine if your Friday nights to watch you you're cramming for a test-he drawer. reach a state of detente where roommate really is Straight study. plans It that way. 20. The Roommate from you can even hope to begin from Hell, you need to look for J J. The Floommate from 16. The Roommate from Hell talks to you while he liking that person who uses the clues, just as a werewolf has Hell keeps his fruit in your Hell spills popcorn on the brushes his teeth. same sink as you. even fingertips and a vampire refrigerator until It rots. floor... and eats It later. 21. The Roommate from 
To make matters worse, must speak in a sloppy Trans­12. The Hoommate from 17. The Roommate from Hell turns up the radio when there is a class of roommates alvanian accent. The Room­Hell gets mall every day. Hell opens your beer just to waterbed commercials come that you cannot even hope to mate from Hell has his own 13. The Ftoommate from smell it. on. get along with --the Roommate distinctive characteristics: Hell Is asked to twenty SYR's. 18. The Roommate from 22. The Roommate from from Hell. I. The Roommate from Hell 14. The Ftoommate from Hell comes In drunk on Tues­Hell has a perfect fake J.D. and 
No matter how much you decorates your room like Greg Hell borrows your best clothes day night and passes out on won't let you use it. 
gave me the shirt off her back. in the middle of a sultry South I was in her room and asked if Bend summer. all of the clothes hanging in The Opening Ceremonies,
An uberglucklich
• 
the wardrobe were hers. She pared down to a polished two­then took out a pretty jade hour ABC production, actually 
green Benetton shirt and said lasted a total of six hours, In­that in addition to the team cluding the two hours some
experience 
uniforms, this shirt was one of athletes had to stand waiting KATHY SCARBECK My worst premonitions of already coming to realize why the few articles of clothing for the rest of the participants lncompetancy were realized these Olympians were called she'd brought with her. Liesl to assemble in the Notre Dame
features writer when I boarded the team's bus "special." My duties as Live-In then said, quite matter-of­Stadium. I also found myself wonder­
A
s I watched a bus full of and one of the athletes began Host included acting as a trans­factly, that she was giving the 
Austrian athletes pull in talking to me. I could not un­lator1guide, living in the same green shirt to me. I tried to ing why the athletes got the dormitory with my team mem­worst seats in the stadium.
front of the CCE last July, I derstand a word she was protest, but she cut me short by saying I couldn't return a After all, the ceremonies were
tightly clutched my 1500-page saying. It was going to be a bers, and eating meals with for them, weren't they? Try ex­
German dictionary and ques­long week and a half. them. During that first break­gift. She was right; I couldn't. tioned my earlier decision in After the athletes had been fast together, I was politely Such wonderfully simple plaining this to a group sitting choosing a summer rich in the safely settled into Dillon Hall asked by no l·~ss than four of generosity was impossible to in the end zone, one hundred idiosynchracies of the German (Surprise--The dorms went co­the athletes if I had slept well. turn down. yards from the stage and 
tucked behind ABC's mammothlanguage and based in South ed for the duration of the I began tal~.ing to Liesl, a I saw the compassion the 
Bend instead of some beach games), most of the coaches 24-year-old athlete, who kept athletes had for one another. camera platforms. offering to walk back to the After one Austrian swimmer Isn't It curious that Austrian
somewhere. As Live-In Host for decided, in typical Austrian the Austrian delegation to the style, to go out for a beer. Coke dispenser to refill my had won a gold medal, every­body buildeli'3ctor Arnold 1987 International Summer Though these Europeans were glass. At the end of the meal, one else on the team congrat­Scwarzenegger found enough Special Olympic Games that a bit disgruntled about the un­Liesl asked if I was finished, ulated him, even another swim­time to host the nationally were held here at Notre Dame, availability of alcohol on and then voluntarilly carried my mer who had placed fourth. televised Opening Ceremonies 
as well as greet the Austrian
I was responsible for ten men­campus, they quickly decided tray to the conveyor belt. By One competitor in our group 
tally handicapped Austrian ath­to make the best of the situa­the end of thE: day Liesl was never received a medal. "I team on camera, but had to calling me her "best friend" would have liked to have won a cancel a weightliftlng clinic he
letes and five of their coaches, tion and discovered the cozy and my duties started with confines of the Linebacker and asking me to write to her medal." he said, "but I didn't. I was to give for the athletes the 
after she retumed to Austria. can't change that, so I'll have next day? arrived on campus. By the next morning I was A few days later Liesl literally to accept it." When the team boarded the 
I think what really got to me bus to leave campus at the end the most was when I heard of nine long. tiring days, I felt Liesl say that she was so both saddness and a touch of "uberglucklich," a word which relief. I couldn't believe that I can only be translated as had grown so close to so many -. 
"overly happy." people so quickly; I felt as If I 
The nine days weren't all fun had known these Austrians for and games, though. There years. were low points, such as the Never having worked with the weather. 90 degrees plus is mentally handicapped, I had never pleasant, but add to 90 been expecting ten minimally percent humidity, dorms with functioning individuals, but 
no air conditioning. and ath­what I found were ten selfless, letes with health problems, and loving. and courageous com­you'll wonder why these games petitors who showed me just were ever allowed to take place how "special" they really were. 
greeting them all when they Lounge. 



..­
Thursday, September 3, 1987
page 10 The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
O.C Football and O.C. Soccer are looking for anyone interested in joining the O.C. team, coaching or being a captain. Those interested should call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
IH football captains are required to attend a captains meeting tomorrow at 4: 30 in the football auditorium. -The Observer 
The SMC Athletic Council is sponsoring a picnic for all varsity athletes and those inter­ested in becoming varsity athletes tonight on the east side of Angela at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
The soccer team will hold practice for the freshman and J.V. team today at 4 p.m. at the soccer fields behind the ACC. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Institute is starting beginner classes in Tae kwon do and Ju Jitsu Sunday, September 5, at 6:30, in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Any questions, call Billy or Drew at 288-4319. -The Observer 
_ 

The Sailing Club will have a meeting tonight at 6:30 on the dock of St. Joseph's Boat­house. All experience levels are welcome. Dues and proof of insurance will be accepted. Sailing lessons and race team schedule will be dis­cussed. Call Mark Ryan at 3024 if you have further questions. 
The 5-10 and under Basketball Classic will hold sign-ups Tuesday, September 8, in the Student Union Board office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from 1-4 p.m. Teams will have 7­man rosters and a $5 entry fee. Space is limited. Any questions call Jim Manning at 1459 or Steve Wenc at 271-0573. -The Observer 
The men's volleyball team will hold tryouts for the upcoming season this Sunday at 1 p.m. in the ACC Pit. All prospective members must attend. For more information call Jim (1689), Keola (3012) or Mike (1986). -The Ob­server 
The crew team is having a mandatory meeting for all officers and anyone interested in rowing for the 1987-88 season tonight at 8:30 
p.m. in room 118 of the Nieuland Science Hall. 
-The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Club will hold its first class and organizational meeting Monday, Sep­tember 7, at 7 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. No experience necessary. Wear workout attire. For more information, call Greg Barron at 2180 or Chris Thomas at 3540. -The Observer 
O.C. Soccer is looking for off-campus undergraduates interested in playing men's soccer. Call Dave Thompson or Tom Yank at 287-5530. -The Observer 
The wrestling team will hold a meeting for anyone interested in trying out for the team in the ACC football auditorium M,onday, Sep­tember 7, at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
n.a.....Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, .:cepta classified ~from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frtc~ar. The a..-Saln1 ~office, located on the third floor of Hllgg.-Collge Cent81', accepts claalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Fridar. DMdllne for next-day cluslfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must 
Classifieds be prepU:t, eithel' In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five cMActera Pel' day. 
NOTICES  WANTED  1976 DATSUN 280Z COUPE, 67,000 MILES, ORIGINAL OWNER. NEW DUN­LOP TIRES, RUNS EXCELLENT,  Need MSU GA's and student tix. Call Lisa at £4588.  My family has already ordered BLUE AND GOLD BODY PAINT  WANTED: FRESHMAN GIRL FOR SYR DATE. MUST BE GOODLOOKING, THIN, UNDER 5'5", AND HAVE  
SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING 237-1949; H: 2n-s131.  0:  SITTER WANTED AFTER 3 P.M. TIL 6 P.M. TUES. THRU FRI. CALL AFTER 8:30P.M. 259-9110.  NEEDS SOME BODY WORK. 2n-9729 AFTER 6 PM. ROOM SIZE SEARS REFRIG. USED 3  Need 2 MSU Student Tickets. Also Need GA's And Student Tickets For USC. Will Pay $$$$. Call Bill £2003.  for the NAVY game. You can have my flral·born or my Jaat paycheck If I can have your stud or GA tlx. Please call  BLONDE HAIR. MUST BE NAMED BAMBI. SHORT BUT MEANINGLESS RElATIONSHIP INCLUDED. call Jim at £1108  
MARISSA'S TYPING; WORD PRO­CESSING & PHOTOCOPIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 2n-1051 DAY; 2n-2724 EVE. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Foreigner'• Bible Study Starting tonight, thursdays 7-8:30 pm at 1010 Notre Dame Avenue, Apt 4. If you know nothing about Christianity, but are inter­ested. Foreigners especially welcome, we will try to speak simple English. DI­rections: Walk down (15 min.) Notre Dame Av till Howard Street (STOP sign). You can also take the 7 pm city bus. White stone house with trees just before Howard. Curious? Just come and see! HELP! RIDE NEEDED: Miami Univ. (Oh.), 914-Sti, $$$, Doug -2835 ' LOST/FOUND I LOST -LOST -LOST I left my pink jean jacket on one of the Senior Class buses that went to Chicago Wednesday. The  EARN $4.00 PER HOUR. Pizza Hut Delivery has openings for delivery drivers. Start at $4.00 per houretipsegas reimbursment. (Reimbursments and tips are paid daily.) We offer flexible schedule, meals, and a great work en­virement. You must be 18 years old with a car. insurance, and drivers licence. Pizza Hut is an Equal Opportunity Em­ployer. Call 277-2662. Caring person needed to watch 3 pre­school children in our home 2 afternoons a week. Close to NO. Tuesdays and Fridays preferred. $3.50 per hour. 232­7273. HIRING ALL POSITIONS -FULL TIME, PART TIME -WALKING DISTANCE. NICOLA'S REST., 1705 SOUTH BEND AVE. 277-5666. APPLY IN PERSON! SITTERS NEEDED FOR DELIGHTFUL 2 YR. OLD GIRL. WORK AROUND YOUR SCH. & PROVIDE OWN TRANSP. $2.50 AN HR. 287-3315. Part-time help wanted. Apply in person at Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. at Notre Dame Ave. Open: 10:00-5:30 pm , 7 days a week.  MOS. ONE YR. WARRANTY IN­CLUDED. $75. 239-7498 OR 272-4741 AFTER 3 P.M. TIE-DIES TIE-DIES TIE-DIES CALL 2033 FOR SALE--Hewlett-Packard 1 5C calculator w' instructions. Call Lisa £2567 TICKETS HELP I! I need three Michigan State GA's. Please call 283-2059 and ask tor Paul. WANTED: AT LEAST 2 USC TICKETS FOR OCT. 24. CALL 1120 PITT TIX WANTED CALL MATT 3349 I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN CALL MIKE 1741 Need six Michigan State student tickets or GA's. Call Mike at 271-0765.  I'm not Catholic (gasp), and my parents are divorced (gasp). Can you help me out with one Navy GA ?? Call Tim at 1223. Thanks. NEED TICKETS II TWO MICH. ST. GA'S& TWO ALABAMA GA'S CALL GARRETT 3506 MEGA BUCKS FOR MICH. ST. G.A.'S!!! PLEASE HELP AND CALL CHRIS AT X 2039 OR 2040! $$$$$ NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC GAME. CALL CINDY 277-1320. I need 2 GA tix for the USC and Alabama games' Call Boo Boo, £3684 HELP! I need MICHIGAN GA's. Call Jane at 2179 or 3704. NEEDED DESPERATELY (My baby bro­ther is coming to visit): one Michigan State student or GA ticket. Call Beth at 288-6631. Need 1 Navy Ticket G.A. Or Student Call Chris £1593  Ann Marla x1367. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. WAKE UPI BASS PLAYER WANTED FOR BAND. CALL 2175 OR 1648. FOR THE BEST IN MUSICAL ENTER­TAINMENT CALL ENTERTAINMENT UNLIMITED THE PROFESSIONAL DISC JOCKEY SERVICE ASK FOR BRIAN 2743 OR 271-0754 WE DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO I.U. THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY FOR  THOMAS JOHN MOONEY Hey sweet cheeks. I've been watching you from BE­HIND... HEY BINKIIII I spent four hours outside of the ACC wa1ting for a repeat of your BIRTHDAY activities. I thought that at least we could dance in the line for the bathroom or drink some second-hand mixed drinks. Oh well, happy 22nd anyway. A concerned constituent HAPPY B-DAY STEVE JULIEN!! There was go1ng to be an ad W'your picture, but you were expecting that. I was go1ng to send a singing telegram to your class. but that"s too embarassing. I thought of having your fnends in the Glee Club s1ng to you 1n front of a crowd. but I don't know them well enough. So I settled for a s1mple classified. Don't you feel gu1lty for calling me malicious and evil? Happy 20th I! J. 5 NO gals need nde to U of M game Call Bndget and Melissa· 2525 L. Thanks for d1nner. For the card And for lett1ng me down eas1ly.  
bus company doesn't have it, so some nice concerned Domer must have picked it up for me. Thanks a millionllll Please call the Senior Class Office at £239-5136 and ask for Amy so I can thank you and pick it up. If no one is in, please leave a message on the answering machine. LOST: I left a stereo cabinet at MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSE on Aug. 22  NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE G.A. TICK­ETS. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL MIKE X4340 FACULTY MEMBER SEEKS CASUAL CLERICAL ASSISTANT, $4.5Q.hour, for library, post office, similar errands. Ap­plications in writing to Dr Tom Karmo, 251 Decio, by Monday September 7. Fur­ther info extension 7207.  HELP I need 2 GA's for any home football game. Call Janice at 271-9130 evenings or 283-4653 days. I need 2 GA's for Mich St! Please call Ned at 3515.  Will Pay Big Bucks! Desparately need 2 G A's for USC. Pay top $, CALL £1409 WANTED: 4 PURDUE GA'S. PLEASE CALL LAURA 234-6281 EVES. WANTED: 2 MICH. STATE TIX.  ALL GAS. CALL MIKE AT 3375. JUNIORS I THURSDAY I CLASS PICNIC! THURSDAY! HOT AIR BALLOONING! JUNIORS!  THANK YOU ST. JUDE DESPERATE!!! need MSU TICKET' STUDENT or GA! call christy x3690  
REWARDII!I Call BILLY (288-4319) or KIRSTIN (x2596) MIXED SHOES AT BEACH VOLLEY­BALL FRIDAY? I PICKED UP YOURS. TO EXCHANGE---CALL 2304 IF YOU HAVE FOUND A BLUE BUD  SWIM INSTRUCTORS -Volunteers needed to work with mentally handi­capped children and adults. Beginner Level swim classes, individual instruc­tion, classes Saturday Mornings andbr Wednesday Evenings. Call Bill Thomas -289-4831.  I NEED GA TIXS TO MICH. MICH ST, & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 HELPI I NEED 6 USC TICKETS. CALL RANDY AT 3185 WILL BUY, SELL, OR TAPDANCE NUDE FOR.  PLEASE CALL LAURA 234-6281 EVES. NEED GA'S & STUDENT TIX FOR 'BAMA --serious bills 'cause I'm in serious trouble. Call MATT £283-3549  BE THERE -5 p.m. Stapan Field. JUNIORS! CLASS PICNIC TONITEI HOT AIR BALLOONING!  HELP! I desperately need nders to e1ther Louis­ville or Bowling Green, Kentucky the weekend of September 11. If Interested, please call Debbie at x2286. CINDY HAU  
LIGHT KEY CHAIN WITH 4 KEYS PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1160!! LOST a pair of "baot shoes." Lost during beach volleyball Friday. Left near tree by Stepan center. REWARD!! I CALL 2304. To the fargin bastage who stole my Miller beer mlrnor from the Dillon buement.  WANTED: Junior or senior student with transportation to babysit two-year-old boy and large dog. Will involve mostly weekends and nights. Occasional hous&tlog sitting. Excellent part-time work, good salary. Call Mrs. Knapp 277­5450.  NEED 6 TIX FOR NO-USC GAME OCT.24. CALL COLLECT 717-339-1040, BILL DITCHEY, MT. CARMEL, PA. NEED 2 MSU GA'S 2276 I NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX--AM WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY £2574.  $$$NAVY TIX $$$Need 5 Navy tix Call Karen 271-0585 ·········································· I need 5 GA's for MICH STATE. Please call Cory at 3561 . Need (4) GA's for Navy. Call Jane Anne at 283-2998.  JUNIORS! IRISH GARDENS NEEDS A DELIVERY PERSON.ALL INTERESTED APPLI­CANTS W/ CAR AND FINANCIAL AIGWORK STUDY CALL THE SHOP AT X4242 BETWEEN 12:30 AND 5:30  YOU'LL NEVER GUESS WHO GOES TO N.D. NOW EAT DINNER AND YOU'LL FIND OUT NSHP --Sign-up to tutor at the dimng halls Wednesday, Thursday, and Fnday. Come to our Organizational Meeting on Sunday, Sept. 6 at 7PM in the Library  
It's mine. I want it back my name is on the back so you know whose it is. RETURN IT AND I ASK NO QUES­TIONS.  FOR SALE  I DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S OR ONE GA AND ONE STUDENT TICKET FOR NAVY GAME. 225 LEWIS OR CALL 3735  I need 2 Mich. St. G.A.s Please call David at 4235  Save cash and purchase your textbooks; three to five day service for textbook or­ders. Also, you can sell your textbooks for cash at Pandora's Bookstore. We're  Auditorium. NSHP is celebrating its 25th Anniversary' Neighborhood Study Help Program!!!! NSHP!!  
LOST: SET OF KEYS IN NEULAND SCI­ENCE, AM 123. CALL 3624 OR 2156  Mac 512K wtase, $950 or best offer. 654-3323, leave message.  NEED BC TICKETS WILL PAY $ call Theresa 233-5732  I NEED4GA'S FOR THE BOSTON COL­LEGE GAME! CALL FRANK 3104.  located on 808 Howard St., open 10:00­,5:30 pm, 7 days a week.  Jo1n THE OBSERVER and yes, you too can be Grand Slammed at Denny's at 5:00 A.M. after working all night for  
AND IDENTIFY KEY NUMBER. FOR RENT  1980 Yamaha 400 Special, good con­d.,$600 or best. 654-3323, leave mes­sage.  $$ I NEED NAVY GA'S $$ CALL JOHN AT 2099 I NEED MANY GA'S FOR THE MIC­ HELPII Need 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs . Have 2 USC tix to trade. Call Kate 277­2944. I HAVE 6 NAVY TIX TO TRADE FOR 4 MICH STATE I £4096  Michigan State tickets I need to get ahold of six student or GA tickets. Call Mike at 271-0765. WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH  peanuts. K.Lee Happy 1.11 and moving closer to 2.0 Thanks for be1ng you. I love you. Jimmy  
NICE  FURNISHED  HOUSE  SAFE  IBM XT clone 1 yr old 640 K w' 20 MB hardrive & NEW ITT RGB monitor$ 1200  HIGAN ST. GAME, MARTY 1050  SAVE ME!! 1 BROTHER e NO MICH  WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH FRIDAY 7:00PM THEODORE'S  Dear 20th Century W.W. Curiosity has got the better of me. Please reveal your­ 
NEIGHBORHOOD 288-0955255-3684 FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO  OBO, call Jennifer 259-5840 NEW IBM software W'lnanuals Microsoft  NEED 2 GAs for MICH or any HOME GAMES -Call Bridget 271-0864  STATE TIX 1 DEAD SIS-DIANE 2627  PAR 3  self. Tom.  Sloth  
FAIR PRICES 277-3097 683-8889  Word, Flight Simulator, mise games $300 OBO, call Jen 259-5840  I NEED ONLY 1 GA OR STUD TIX TO MICH ST I KNOW YOU CAN SPARE 1! CALL FRED AT £1488 ASAP!  BIG $$'S OFFERED FOR GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMESI CALL 4579  SATURDAY  PAR 3 PAR 3 4:00PM  FIELDHOUSE  The man who Is juat purrfect, except he Is still wearing white. Someone help him on Frtday.  
DUPLEX FOR RENT. ON BUS LINE. IM­MEDIATE OCCUPANCY. CALL 232­9239 FOR APPOINTMENT. EFFICIENCY APT. NEAR NO. 259-4943 OR 234-3827. Share large house near downtown. 100  1982 DATSUN 210 4-SPEED 50,000 MILES NEW TIRES, STEREO CAS­SETTE, BODY DAMAGE. DEPEND­ABLE IN COLD WEATHER. 1,600 OR BEST OFFER. 282-2793 ANYTIME, LEAVE MESSAGE. FOR SALE: 1973 RED VW BUS GOOD  Need Tix for Bama --as many as possible --serious dollars offered because I'm in serious trouble. call Matt £3549 DESPERATELY NEED MSU TIX FOR PARENTS FIRST TRIP TO NO! DONT LET ME DISAPPOINT THEM!  MY MOTHER NEEDS A QUICK COUPLE OF TICKETS FOR MICH. STATE. PLEASE HELP. CALL MARC AT 288-7105. WANTED-I NEED 1 OR 2 TIX FOR MICH.ST-STU. OR GA.WILL PAY CASH.CALL 1793.PLEASE!I!  MALL Looking for fun, new friends, and TRAVEL OPPORTUNITIES? Join SHENANIGANS: The alternative musl· cal choiceI A student-run organization dedicated to professional showman­ SPEE-DEE WORDPROCESSING. 237-1949; H: 2n-8131.  0:  
mo. e 11.! util. Grad student, non-smoker. 289-8792, Paul  CONDITION RUNS WELL SEE AT BRIDGETS AND-OR CALL MEGAN 2562  WILL PAY IN A BIG WAYI CALL BRIAN 27430RKRIS 271-0754  Need 6 MICH ST. TIX Call Steve at 271­0573  ship and camaraderie. It's so fun, you'll swear It's agalnat Du Lac! In· fonmatlonal Meeting will be held on  Walling for your big break, ANYONE, ANYONE???  
COLOR TV RENTALS BY SEMESTER  • • • RAYBANS • • • Aviator 31.60 Out· dooraman 35.00  NEED 1 MICH STATE GA call MB 233­5732  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  Thursday, September 3, In room 219 D'Shag at 9:00 PM.  Come and AUDffiON for SMC'a "THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT'' Call Janet at 284-5444  
VERY LOW RATES COLLEGIATE REN­TALS 272-5959 For Rent 1 &2 bedroom apartments close to campus Call 291-6509 after 4:00 for details  Weytarer 29.30 Waytarerll 32.10 Save 40%;cateloga;1-6~RAYBAN CAR! 79 GRANADA FORD 64k miles aut()j:)Ower only$700 271-01 14  I URGENTLY need 3 GA's for the Mic­higan State game. Call Roger at 3533. HELPI!! NEED 1 (ONE) GA FOR MIC­HIGAN ST. x2101 ASK FOR NICK  I have to convert a Wisconsin fan I! To do this I need 1 stud. or GA USC ticket. Call Kristen 1367.  As a Spaniard, I appreciate fine things.­3169 Deaperetety -king nve G.A. tlcketa to the Navy game. Pay good!!!! PleaM call Ann at £2815.  The TAl-GAMMAS The only off-campus house worth visiting A PAID ENDORSEMENT  
-­ 

----------------~----~~ 
Thursday, September 3, 1987 
The Observer page 11 

The Minnesota Twins and Oakland Athletics are battling for AL West supremecy. Minnesota defeated Boston last night while the 
Yankees beat Oakland to give the Twins a game-and-a-half lead, 
Desperately seeking 
CREW 

for ODC 1 San Francisco Dance Company performing on campus. Volunteers needed on Tuesday, Sept. 15 and Wednesday, Sept 16. (Experience a plus but not necessary) Call Nick at 239-7757
.................. 
AL roundup 
Tigers beat Tribe on one hit 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Tom Candiotti pitched 7 ~:-3 no-hit innings until Matt Nokes singled for Detroit's only hit Wednesday night, but the Tigers beat the Cleveland Indians 2-1. 
Candiotti hurt himself with his own wildness, walking seven and making a wild pick­off throw. A walk and first baseman ~roe Carter's error led to a run in the fifth inning, and a walk and Nokes' single made it 2-0 in the eighth. 
With Cleveland trailing in the eighth, Candiotti could have been within one out of pitching a no-hitter. But Nokes lined a clean single over second baseman Tommy Hinzo's head to score pinch runner Jim Walewander, who entered after a leadoff walk to Darrell Evans. 
Candiotti, a knuckleballer, fell to 7-14. One of the victories was a one-hitter against New York on Aug. 1, when Candiotti held the Yankees hitless for seven innings. Candiotti struck out seven. 
Jack Morris, 16-7, gave up five hits for the victory. 
Blue Jays 7, Angels 6 
TORONTO -George Bell hit a two-run opposite field homer in the eighth inning to snap a 5-5 tie and lift the Toronto Blue Jays to a 7-6 victory over the California Angels Wednesday. 
Bell's homer, his American League-leading 42nd, came off a 3-0 pitch from DeWayne Buice, 5-6, and offset a two-run homer by California's George Hendrick in the top of the in­ning that had tied the score 5-5. 
White Sox 5, Rangers 
0 

CHICAGO -Greg Walker hit a three-run homer and Dave LaPoint combined with Bobby Thigpen on a five-hitter Wed­nesday night as the Chicago White Sox beat the Texas Rang­ers 5-0. 
LaPoint, 3-2, gave up four hits in seven innings. He struck out three and walked one. Thig­pen relieved to start the eighth 
and allowed a single to Ruben Sierra, who had three hits. 
~Knights of the Castle Men's Hairstyling 
You choose a first class campus Why not a first class haircut? 
~riNUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
212-6312 211·1691 
OJrSCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
~ 

Ironwood l& St.Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 
Walker's 24th homer capped a four-run sixth inning. Fred Manrique and Jerry Hairston singled with one out off Paul Kilgus, 2-6, and Ivan Calderon had an RBI single. 
Mariners 8, Orioles 6 

BALTIMORE Mickey Brantley drove in three runs with a pair of doubles and Dave Valle had two RBI singles Wed­nesday night, leading the Seattle Mariners over the Bal­timore Orioles 8-6. 
Yankees 3, Athletics 2 

NEW YORK -Jerry Royster singled home the winning run in the lOth inning after Mickey Tettleton's passed ball allowed Don Mattingly to reach base. 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAOU! 

Eut  
W  L  Pet.  01!1  
St. Louis  79  53  .596  
New York  76  57  .571  3.5  
Montreal  74  58  .581  5  
Philadelphia  70  63  .526  9.5  
Chicago  67  65  .508  12  
Pittsburgh  61  72  .459  18.5  
W•t  
San Franclaoo  71  63  .530  
Houston  86  67  .496  4.5  
Cincinnati  86  88  .493  5  
Atlanta  57  75  .432  13  
Los Angeles  58  n  .421  t4.5  
San Diego  54  79  .406  16.5  

W..:tneedlly'o RHUitl Montreal 7, San Franclaco 3 Pittsburgh 2, Atlanta 0 Houston 10, Chicago 1 Cincinnati 3, St. Louis 1 New York 4, San Diego 3 Philadelphia 6, Loa Angeles 2 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Eaot  
w  L  Pet.  Ql!l  
Detroit  79  52  .803  
toronto  79  54  .594  t  
New York  75  58  .584  5  
Milwaukee  72  60  .545  7.5  
Boston  63  88  .461  16  
Baltimore  60  73  .451  20  
Cleveland  51  63  .381  29.5  
Weot  
Minnesota  70  64  .522  
Oakland  88  65  .511  1.5  
California  88  88  .493  4  
Kansas City  65  88  .469  4.5  
Seanle  63  70  .474  6.5  
Texas  62  70  .470  7  
Chicago  56  76  .424  13  

W..:lneldoy'e RIIUitl Toronto 7, California 6 New York 3, Oakland 2, 10 Inn. Seenle 8, Banlmore 6 Detroit 2, Cleveland 1 Chicago 5, Texas 0 Minnesota 5, Boston 4 Milwaukee 3, Kansas City 2 
Escape 
continued from page 16 
that lapses in concentration won't win us many games. We'll be all right." 
The Irish take on Drake to­morrow night at 7:35 under the lights at Krause stadium. Grace is hoping his squad will rebound from Tuesday's game with a vengeance. 

"This might sound as bit cocky," said Grace, "but I feel sorry for Drake having to come here to play us. We'll be hungry and ready for a big win. I'll be disappointed if we're not. Hopefully, we'll have a nice crowd and we'll gain some mo­mentum for the rest of the year." 
IRISH ITEMS Senior goalkeeper Tim Hartigan suf­fered a knee injury in warmups on Tuesday and will be out of action indefinitely. Hartigan reinjured the knee which kept him out of action for a week in the preseason ...The Irish con­tinued their dominance over Loyola, running their all-time mark to 7-0-1. 
The Obse1~ver 
would like to announce an 
OPEN HOUSE 
on Thursday, September 3, at 8:00 p.m. in the Montgomery l~oom of the LaFortune Student Center (formerly the Little Theater) 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
~-­
Thursday, September 3, 1987

page 12 The Observer 
1 Hatcher left in limbo
l 
~ 
after bat incident
~ 
Associated Press He has 11 home runs and 57 runs batted in. 
HOUSTON -A suspension of Tuesday night's loss was Houston outfielder Billy Houston's seventh in a row, Hatcher for using a corked bat dropping the Astros farther be­would be a serious blow to the hind division leading San Astros' chances of repeating as Francisco. National League Western Divi­sion champions, Manager Hal Hatcher said all of his regu­Lanier says. lar bats were broken, so he un­
Hatcher, one of the few wittingly grabbed the corked Astros who has hit consistently bat in Tuesday's loss. all season, was ejected in the Lanier backed Hatcher's fourth inning of Tuesday story. night's 3-2loss to Chicago after "Putting cork in a bat is not his bat split in two, revealing going to help a Billy Hatcher 
it had been corked. at all because of the kind of hit­Umpire crew chief John ter he is," Lanier said. Umpires hold the evidence on Billy Hatcher. bat he was using, pitcher Dave Smith's, had McSherry said the bat con­
,( Hatcher is pleading that he did not realize the been tampered with. tained 3-4 inches of cork and "That is one of the bats our had been sent to the league of­pitchers use to play their silly fice. Katy Feeney, the league's little games to see how far they 
NL roundup 
spokeswoman, said it would be can hit the ball in batting prac­several days before a decision . tice.
Reds gain ground on leaders could be made on suspension. "It just happened to be the 
same model of bat Billy uses "I have to stand up for him and he was out of bats, so he because the bat wasn't even picked it up." 
Associated Press Williams and John Franco, who Astros 10, Cubs 1 his," Lanier said. "I'd hate to gained his 25th save. HOUSTON -Kevin Bass be­be without a player of his The incident occurred at a 
SAN FRANCISCO -Herm came the first National League 
caliber for any length of time time when the league is looking Winningham drove in four runs It was the second straight player ever to hit home runs at this stage of the pennant into the possibility that some
with a home run and a double win for the Reds, who had from both sides of the plate in race." batters have loaded their bats as the Montreal Expos dropped nine of their previous a game twice in the same Hatcher is hitting .311, ranks with cork or shredded rubber
defeated the San Francisco 
11 contests. By winning, third­season as the Houston Astros fourth in the NL with 149 hits. to add distance to their drives. 
Giants 7-3 Wednesday. 
place Cincinnati moved five snapped a seven-game losing With the Expos trailing 3-0 games behind first-place San streak with a 10-1 win over theafter six innings, Winningham Francisco in the National Chicago Cubs Wednesdayhit a three-run homer to cap a League West. night. 

Bea full-time 
(f)

four-run seventh and added an 
0­

RBI double in the ninth. 

~~ 
~

Pascual Perez, 1-0, won his 
student
first major-league game since July 14, 1985. He left in the seventh with runners at second 
and a part-time B 
and third and none out. Perez, 
(J

the former Atlanta pitcher who was out of baseball last year, 
~r. 
z
-

allowed six hits and three runs 
If you're highly compctiti\·e and in top physical 
z

in six-plus innings. 
condition, you might want to become part 
Reliever Andy McGaffigan 
of Ranger Challenge in the Army Rescr\'e 
retired three straight batters to 
~ 

Officers' Training Corps. 
end the threat in the seventh, 
NEWEST IN 
f-

Its a program of intense mental and physical 
and Tim Burke pitched the 
HAIR DESIGN 
challenges. And if you're among the best, you 
final two innings for his 13th 
~ 

could represent your college and your cadre 
We're proud to announce the arrival of the
save. 
L.LJ

during the national competitions at the Army 
shining new star in the galaxy of hair design 
u

ROTCs summer Ad\'anced Camp . 
. . . the Seja System. 
-

Ranger Challenge is anything but easy. But
Reds 3, Cardinals 1 
Seja is the computerized system that al­
it is the most rigorous, rewarding and exciting 
ST. LOUIS -Bo Diaz hit a 
lows you to try on new hairstyle as easily as 
experience on campus.
two-run homer with two outs in 
having your picture taken.
the eighth inning, leading the 
To find out more about enrolling in Army
You've seen it on "The Today Show" and 
ROTC, and for complete details on the over the St. Louis Cardinals 
Cincinnati Reds to a 3-1 victory 
read about it in "Vogue", "Self' and "Elle" 
Army ROTCs Ranger Challenge, talk to your Wednesday night. 
Professor of Military Science, today. Diaz's homer, his 14th of the 
Take the guesswork out ofnew cuts and hair-
color ... and call us today. season, snapped a 1-1 tie. The 
Computerized System $40
hit followed a walk to Buddy 
INTERESTED??? 
Bell by Danny Cox, 9-5, who 
Bring in this ad to receive 
CALL CAPTAIN DOMINGO
had retired the first two batters 
$10 OFF any hair service 
239-6264
in the inning. Ron Robinson, 7-3, gained his 
143 Dlxieway South
234_5350 277_0505 cinnati with relief help in the 
fourth straight victory for Cin­final three innings from Frank .._____________________
.. 



CITY-WIDE LIQUORS BEER 3825 N. Grape Rd. 
KEGS
Meister Brau 24 cans... $4.99 Stroh's 30 pack... $7.99 
Mish, Ind. 

Old Milwaukee 24 cans... $5.99 Hammes 24 cans...$5.99 Hours: Budweiser half barrel 15.6 gal... $28.99 Lite 24 cans... $5.99 Old Milwaukee half barrel 15.6 gal... $22.99
Mon.-Thurs. 9-1 0 pm.

Michelob 24 bottles... $9.89 Busch half barrel 15.6... $26.99 
.. 
Fri. & Sat. 9-11 pm• 
272-2274

BEER RETURNABLES (long-necks) LIQUOR 
Edlaon 
Southern Comfort 1.75 liter... $12.99


Budweiser 24 bottles... $6.99 
Rlkaloff Vodka 1.75 liter... $7.99 

l!fCiiYl
Bud Lite 24 bottles... $6.99 
Silver Crest Gin 1.75 liter... $8.99 

CD~
Rhinelander 24 bottles...$3.99 
<.:utty Sark 1.75 liter...$17.99 Old Thompson(Biend) 1.75 liter... $9.99

Open Labor Day 
Maul Tropical Schnapps 7.50mi...$5.99 
Schmaks Root Beer Schnapps
9 am -10 pm 

IUnlveralty Mall I
7.50mi...$3.99 




Thursday, September 3, 1987 The Observer page 13 
NFL. brings back old clock 

GRAND RE-OPENING V\rEEKEND 
Frilllay and Saturday Sept. 4 8r 5 
Dance to your favorite music and check out our new bar serving a varie!ty of food and drinks. 
2nd floor Lafortune 
• • 

8:00 P.M.-2:00 A.M . 
Associatetl Press 
NEW YORK -NFL owners bowed to pressure from coaches Wednesday and scrapped the experimental 40­second clock, reinstating the old 30-second clock for the reg­ular season and playoffs. 
In a vote taken by computer­ized teletype, 13 teams voted to 
A • c;~~d;; 15 vmed 
control in the huddle. I've got 
to be a leader-after bad plays 
and things like that. 

The Observe~reg Kohs 

George Streeter and the Irish secondary look to do some heavy hitting this season. Brian O'Gara details the outlook of the de­fensive backfield in his story on the back page. 

lltocco's Pizza 
South Bend's "Original Pizza" 
and a tradition with students 
Only a few blocks from campus Families weicome 
We serve the best in Italian and American Cuisine try us and You'll agree" 
237 Sl Louir Blvd. 233-2464 
Everybody's got to keep their heads up." 
Last yea1~'s season opener is one that will stick in the minds of a lot of people for a lot of reasons. 
For some~, the 24-23 Michigan triumph in Notre Dame Stadium was a game Notre Dame really won. Replays clearly showed that tight end Joel Williams landed inbounds with the potentia.l game­wmmng touchdown even though an official said other­wise. 
For others, the Irish defeat was a ,case of veteran placekicker John Carney not coming through under pres­sure, as his 45-yard field-goal attempt in the game's waning seconds felll wide left and short. 
In any case, another tough Notre Dame schedule in 1987 should mean at least a few more of those nail-biters. 
against it. Under NFL by-laws, any new rule must be approved by 21 of the 28 teams. 
Under the experiment, ap­proved by the owners last spring, the 40-second clock was started as soon as the whistle blew to end the previous play. After timeouts, teams had 25 seconds to put the ball into play. 
Are the Irish ready for those games? Last year all but one of the tight contests slipped away. 
"I think our players learned what it takes to compete week in and week out against the schedule we play," Holtz said. "I hope the USC game (a 38-37 Irish comeback victory in the last game of the season) proved to them what it takes to win the close games against good teams." 
Yes, the returning Irish players have been there before. 
But the key to winning the close ones is often a good kick­ing game. And as of now, the Notre Dame kickers have not seen anything close to that kind of pressure. 
Senior punter Vince Phelan replaces Dan Sorensen as the Irish punter. The walk-on punted once all last year, a 33­yarder against Penn State. 
Kicking field goals likely will be either senior walk-on Ted Gradel or freshman Billy Hackett. 
Neither has ever attempted a field goal in a college game. Gradel made good on two extra points in the SMU game last year. Hackett has been suffer­ing from a groin injury this fall 
Under the old rule, which will be back in use for the final week of the exhibition season, teams had 30 seconds to snap the ball after the referee signalled it ready for play. 
Proponents of the 40-second clock, led by Tex Schramm of the Dallas Cowboys, argued that not only did it speed up the games but that they seemed better paced. 
and resumed kicking last week. 
Junior walk-on Reggie Ho is also in the race at the placekicker position. 
"You just can't come close to simulating the pressure of kicking in front of 106,000 people," Holtz said. "We'll just have to wait and see. Phelan has done some awfully good things in practice." 
In preparation for the opening game, Holtz began holding practice on the astroturf of Cartier Field on Wednesday. 
In addition, some of the Irish reserves (the prep team) are wearing the numbers of Mic­higan starters and running Wolverine plays against the Irish first teams. 
"You never know how they're going to play on the turf in front of 106,000 people," Holtz said. "They've been doing well on grass (scrimmages) in front of 54,000 no-shows." 
The last scrimmage of the season is slated for Friday af­
ternoon  in  Notre  Dame  
Stadium,  and  is  completely  
closed.  




--~----,__------~---------­
..-~ .
.. 
Thursday, September 3, 1987

page 14 The Observer 

Women's cross country strong heading into Purdue Triangular 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Running across the golf courses of the Midwest is not everyone's idea of a good time, but the Irish women's cross country team does just that, training hard and racing against some tough competi­tion 
Coach Dan Ryan has already seen improvement in what is only the second year of varsity competition for the Irish. 
"We've got our top seven run­ners returning," said Ryan. "Plus the addition of several strong freshmen and some good walk-ons." 
Last year's team leaders, Julia Merkel and Kathleen Leh­man, are back to improve on last season's impressive per­formances. Freshman addi­tions to the team are Jenny Ledrick, Renee Kaptur, and Terese Lemanski. 
"We're really strong and deep," said Ryan. "The teams have strong individuals, but our depth may be the deciding factor in all the meets." 
The first test of that depth comes this weekend at the Purdue Triangular. 
"We're up against some tough competition with Purdue and Illinois State," said Ryan. Both teams finished among the top fifteen in last year's tough district meet. 
"This weekend will be a good indication of what to expect for the season," said Ryan. "This 
Strength. Style. Tradition 
WE'VE 
f 

wa...g Distance from 
N.D. Campus 

will take the place of our time trials, so we'll find out a lot about the team." 
Ryan says the team is greatly improved, but the schedule is also tougher than in 1986. 
"We've dropped the dual meet with Detroit and added Ball State, plus the Notre Dame Invitational, which includes Michigan State, Virginia and top teams from the NAIA and Divisions I and II." 
But the toughest race for the Irish will, as always, be the District Meet. The district in­cludes Wisconsin (number two in the nation last year) and Iowa (ranked No. 14 nation­wide). A goal for Ryan's team 
Top seeds successful 
Edberg of Sweden, No. 3 Mats Associated Press Wilander of Sweden and No.5 NEW YORK -Sixth-seeded Miloslav Mecir of Czechos­
Jimmy Connors celebrated his lovakia. 35th birthday Wednesday with In women's play, top-seeded a 6-1,6-4, 6-4 victory over fellow Steffi Graf downed Bettina American Joey Rive in an Fulco of -Argentina 6-0, 6-3. opening-round match at the 
U.S. open tennis champion­Connors served extremely ships. well against Rive, ranked 101st 
''This is no different than the in the world. The five-time last 18 years," said Connors, Open winner got 89 percent of the highest-seeded American his first serves in during the male at the Open: "I've cele­match, including 96 percent in brated my birthday here every the final set. year. I'm looking forward to the day when I don't." "I played quite well," be 
Other first-round winners in­said. "I just wanted to keep my cluded second-seeded Stefan mind on my business." 
GOT YOUR 
is to finish in the top fifteen at District. 
Another battle will be for the North Star Conference champi­onship. Ryan expects the Irish and the Blue Demons of DePaul to run a close race for the title. 
"DePaul has two outstanding in "··;rt11als, twin sisters who are great runners. I expect our depth to overcome the strength of those two." 
With good reason, Ryan is en­thusiastic about the upcoming season. 
"I've seen significant im­provement~ over last year. The girls came in to practice in shape and ready to go. We worked with them from there, and everything is going really well." 
AP Photo 

Mats Wilander was among the many seeded players to advance in the first round of the U.S. Open Tennis Tournament. 
IF 

YOU THOUGHT YOU COULDN'T START AT THE TOP 
NOW YOU 
MAY 

Explore career opportunities with an industry leader which 
• 
Demands Entrepreneurship 

• 
Emphasizes Career Grnwth Based on Individual Performance 

• 
Offers Immediate Responsibility 

• 
Provides a TOP-rated Executive Training Program 


Please Join Us At An Open Heuse THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1987 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER THE ANNAPOLIS ROOM 
10:00 A.II.-4:GD P.M. ., "'·• .. ' Ql;i tJ.s COStiQt and -..... 
' ~ '• . -_ ...... 

pkMlsed to accept your resume 
(If available) 
THE MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY EXCELLENCE IN RETAILING 
~.. 


Thursday, September 3, 1987 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Work for 
ACROSS 1 Purple shade 6 Chain reaction 
explosive 11 Shade tree 14 Embarrass

The Observer 
15 -plexus 16 1,051 17 Twain's river 19 Kind of drum 20 Time zone 
letters 21 Discontinue 22 Motif 24 "Animal -" 25 Coronets 
26 Car shelter 29 Impudent 31 San Antonio 
mission 32 Reality 

Mom would 
33 High note 36 American-born Japanese 
37 -Square, Moscow 38 Ship of the 
desert 

be proudl 
Campus 
40 Turn right 41 Contract 43 The end 44 Snoozed

4:00p.m. Radiation Laboratory Seminar "ESR from Short-Lived Radical Pairs 
45 Tunic 

in Solutions," by Prof. Y.N. Molin, Institute of Chemical Kinetics and Combustion, 
46 Flower part 
49 -ex machine 4:15p.m. Army ROTC Fall Awards Ceremony Library Auditorium Novosibirsk, USSR. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory 
50 Candle or nose

4:30p.m. Urban Plunge Task Force organizational meeting, Center for Social 
51 Peppard's

Concerns. 
TV show,

6:00p.m. Scheduling Meeting for all WVFI News Staff, Room 120 O'Shag. 
"The-" 

7:00p.m. Finance, Management, and Marketing Placement Night for Finance, 
53 Draft letters 
56 Timetable

Management, and Marketing major seniors, in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
abbr. 57 NE Fla. town 
7:00 & 9:00p.m. Life Film Series: Marilyn Monroe Night. 7:00pm: "The Seven 
Year Itch," 9:OOpm: "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame Reuben Sandwich 
Salisbury Steak BBQ Chicken Cheese Ravioli 
Comics 
Bloom County 

~···········..········~· 
"' PAR 3: ........ :~ 
..., .. ~· 
Fo~IDer ND stud~nt ~• ··············Jazz Band·······..•••..~· 
~· .Saturday, Sept,5 ~· •••• 4: 00 '',, ~· 
•• •• Fieldhouse Mall "',, ~•.
. ... 
~ 


!HERE W/15 ONCE fl 
WOMIIN.• fl toNft..Y WOMAN... WITH fl {..(IMP FOR II HU58f!N!1 WHO IGNOI?E/1 HE!? IJN/1 REIIP "ftfiY80Y ' IIN/1 
CH£11Tffl ON HER RE&<It..ll!?t..Y FOr? flt..MOST 1Hif?TY YEflf<S... 
ALL I PIP wA~ 5/I{)JT A F£JJ Rr)(}NPS IN51PlA (ROW/)£/) Ha/5£... STVFF UK£ THAT HAPfENS IN SWTll C£NP ALL Til£ 77H£. .. 
0 L..._ 
60 Patriotic org. 61 Articles 62 Ice house 63 Fast traveler 64 Wisdom 65 Printing type 

size 
Saint Mary's 

DOWN 1 Metallic cloth Turkey Cutlet & Gravy 
2 Wading bird 3 Shoe form
Pork Chow Mein 
4 Onager

Cherry Swedish Pancakes Deli Bar 
, 
Berke Breathed 
11NfJ NOW. f!FTER. /1{..{.. THOSE Y£1/R.S, I FIGV!?E I 

1TJ WIITCH flf5Ef?VE JI/5T ON£ LimE 
ME IN MY NMGHTY INl?Vt..&ENC€ • 
aKIVV!f.S? 

PO Y/Jf/ KNOW WHIIT lHIIT IS, YOI/N& Mf/N? 
\ 
Mark Williams 

Student Union Board 
presents: RAW DEAL 
Tonight & Thursday 7:oo, 9:oo & 1 1 :oo pm Engineering Auditorium 
$2.00 


1=-+--+-­

r;. 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 09/03/87All Rights Reserved 
5 City on Lake 
Michigan 6 Ind. province 7-de 
Boulogne 8 Wine pitcher 9 Cartograph 
10 VIctoria's 
province 11 Arabian chief 12 Guanaco 
cousin 13 Sticks In mud 18 Dried up 23 Exclamation 24 Renown 25 Make lace 26 Group of 

hoodlums 09/0l/87 27 "I cannot 35 Winglike parts 49 Stupid 
tell -" 39 OT book 51 Last word 28 Scratch out 42 Slippery one 52 Male animals 29 Fr. port 44 Depot: abbr. 53 Casa room 30 Discourteous 45 Necklace Item 54 Bluebonnet 32 Springe 46 News medium 55 Tire casing 33 Big bird: var. 47 Particles 58 Map abbr. 34 Triangle sides 48 Stylish 59 Ovum 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

r ~N·rbb£vt 
/11 IN TH[ 
,( 
ftJK£'1. . .
. 
~ 

.... 
A 
~ 
~ 
""i

M 
(I 
I
-
~ 


•• •• Sponsored by SUB ........., No food or drink allowed
.....................~~._______...,______....___ 

~----­

~----~~------~--~ 
Sports 
Thursday, September 3, 1987
page 16 
•

Notre Dame gets away with w1n 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team opened its season at Loyola on Tuesday, narrowly escaping in overtime by the score of 2-1. The outcome was a little too narrow for Irish Head Coach Dennis Grace. 
"Hey, we'll take the win," said Grace, in his fourth year as the Irish mentor, "but we'll certainly have to play with bet­ter intensity than that if we're going to compete this year. We quite easily could have been up by two or three goals by the time we got our first goal, and we let down after we did score." 
The win came by virtue of freshman Steve LaVigne's goal seven minutes into the extra session on a nice feed from junior Randy Morriss. Morriss opened the scoring at the 22 minute mark with the assist going Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, the 12th leading scorer in Notre Dame history. Loyola tallied early in the second period to tie the game, and that's the way it stayed until LaVigne fired home the gamewinner. 
To Grace, however, the win was but consolation for his squad's relatively lackluster a good soccer team. Loyola performance. gained confidence with every 
"In competitive soccer, minute that we didn't score. teams are most vulnerable to Loyola taught us a lot-­a letdown right after they score hopefully next time we'll do the or right after they are scored teaching." upon," explained Grace. "We Grace realizes, however, definitely eased up after we got that it is early in the season and the early score. Essentially, we that he played the limit of 18 sat back, watched the game, players during the course of the and hoped they (Loyola) game, many of them freshmen. wouldn't score. You can't do "Not only did I play 18, but that and expect to win against all18 were in by halftime,'' said 
Ticket sales continue 
GATE 3-....---:-G-AT_E4,, _GATE 5 GA.;..;JE;,;,6-:---:--..:::GATE 7 
G?~~~CD CD 0 0 @ ® ® @1~:-'~ 
GATE/1:!!! ~\fl n n n n n n n n "/"'> ~sE9 
0~ ~®~ 
-r-11 I h ~!+t~, 111-::~
@"' : ""@)I 10 
GATE@"' _\ ""@ 
18~ ~ 
G '%%;~ FlFl~~\~~·~~\~ ~~~~ E11 
ATE11':1® ® ®®®@®@®@\/GAT GATE16'-. _/GATE12 GATE 15 • •. GATE 13 -~ 
GATE14 ~ 
Special to The Observer 

Students are asked to bring thier aj)plication, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC on the day specified for each class. One student maY-present a maximum of 
four (4) applications and ID cards. Married students wis­hing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof of marnage. The ticket for a spouse is the same price as a student ticket. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent to all 
students with a campus or local address. If you have not 
yet received your application or if the class status Rre­
printed on your application is incorrect1 you are asked to 
come to the Ticket Office on the secona floor of the ACC 
prior to your designated class issue day. 
Freshmen: Thursday, September 3 


Grace. "At the half, one of the coaches told me that we had played the limit already and I was shocked. I was trying to give a lot of the younger guys a chance, and that might have contributed to the letdowns. But I don't anticipate that we'll have many more problems similar to those as the season wears on. The veterans know 
see ESCAPE, page 11 

Secondary looks to hit hard 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 

If Irish strong safety George Streeter has his way, Notre Dame's opponents will be using a lot of ice and tape after 60 minutes with the Irish. 
"Except for the (Chicago) Bears," said Streeter, "I don't think any team in football will hit harder than Notre Dame this season." 
With only nine days before the Irish open against Mic­higan, defensive secondary coach Terry Forbes is readying his troops for the rigors of an­other top-notch schedule. Despite losing cornerback Troy Wilson and free safety Steve Lawrence to graduation last May, Forbes looks for good things from the defensive backs this fall. 
"We'll have a different crew out there this season," said Forbes, " but they are playing well together and they have come to understand the system very well in the past year. 
"To play defensive back, you have to know what to do, have the physical ability to do it, and maintain concentration on your job. We know what we have to do and have the physi­cal ability. Our concentration has been good, but we have to keep working harder on that aspect of our game." 
Streeter will be returning to the strong safety position that he earned midway through the 1986 campaign after Brandy Wells' knee injury. Streeter's 44 tackles last fall is tops among returning defensive backs. Battling Streeter for the starting spot at strong safety has been junior Pat Eilers, a transfer from Yale who has 

Stan Smagala 

been impressive in spring and fall workouts. 
Holding down the top spot at free safety will be junior Corny Southall, who was named the most improved defensive back in spring drills. Southall switched to the secondary last fall after coming to playing tailback his freshman year. Senior Chris K vochak and sophomore David Jandric will back up Southall. 
One of the most improved players and toughest competi­tors among the secondary is sophomore Stan Smagala. Most of his appearances last fall were on special teams, but 
a strong spring put Smagala in 
the driver's seat at right cor­
nerback. 

Smagala is more than ready 
to get the season underway. 

"I can't wait to go out and 
have the chance to hit someone 
else besides my teammates," 
said Smagala. "Right now 
we're just hitting the same 
guys every day." 

"We are very pleased with 
Stan and Corny," said Forbes. 
"They are both fairly new to 
their positions and have 
worked hard to learn what they 
need to. We expect some good 
things from both of them this 
year." 

At left cornerback, the Irish 
have two experienced seniors 
battling for the starting spot. 
Both Brandy Wells and Marv 
Spence saw a lot of action last 
fall and should do the same in 
the 1987 campaign. Wells took 
over the number-one spot from 
Spence last fall for the final two 
games of the season, and holds 
an edge at the moment to start 
•the Michigan game. 

Over the last few years, Notre Dame secondaries have played in the shadow of excep­tional Irish defensive line and linebacking squads. With added depth and a hard-hitting squad, this year's defensive backfield should leave its own mark on Irish fans, as well as Irish opponents. 





