r i'IOTRE DAME 
, ttOLLECTION 
It's cool
/IRISH EXTRA: Boston College preview 
Partly sunny and cool today, high 50 to 55. Not as cool tonight, low 35 to 40. Partly cloudy and cool Saturday, high 
IVIEWPOINT: Bork for balance 
50 to 55. 


VOL. XXI, NO. 47 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1987 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer /Todd Tucker
Getting their kicks 
Martial arts teacher, Drew Sandier demonstrates to Building. The Rock offers a variety of activities for his class with the help of sophomore Greg Nigh. The exercise and recreation. class was held Thursday in the Rockne Memorial 
Cooke evaluates new SB mayor 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO Senior Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Pat Cooke hopes new South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, will be more "sensitive" to the problems of off-campus students and help improve relations between stu­dents and the community. 
"Just because he has spent such a long time in this envi­ronment with Notre Dame and South Bend that he will be more sensitive to the problems that exsist within the communities and hopefully, together we can 
Kevin Hurley visits campus, meets officials 

By MICHELLE DALL News Staff 
Kevin Hurley, after two years of extensive physical rehabilitation and speech therapy, is visiting Notre Dame, where he was seriously injured in a car ac­cident in 1985. According to Celeste Hurley, Kevin's mother, Kevin's bodily in­juries are "pretty much repaired, due to reconstruc­tive surgery. " He is now able to walk with the use of a cane, but Hurley explains, "His balance is still not that 
ue HURLEY oaae 7 

come up with some resolu­tions," Cooke said. 
Kernan, the Democratic mayor-elect, tallied 17,030 votes or 53 percent, defeating Republican Carl Baxmeyer, who garnered 15,104 votes or 47 percent. 
Kernan will replace incum­bent Mayor Roger Parent, who is retiring from the office after two terms. 
Cooke said he hopes that re­lations with Kernan will be as cordial as they were with Par­ent. 
"What we want is within the next week or so is set up a meeting with (Kernan) and dis­cuss how (the students) can contribute to the South Bend community and enhance our relations," Cooke said. 
Democrat Sean Coleman, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate, won one of the three at-large council seats with 19,269 votes. Coleman, who proposed an eight-point plan for better Notre Dame-South Bend rela­tions during his campaign, has not contacted Cooke about the plan. 
"He has not approached me as of yet," Cooke said. "But (the proposal) sounded very in-
see COOKE, page 9 


Hare Krishnas dupe students 
By SCOTT BEARBY Assistant News Editor 
Campus View residents donating money to people knocking at their doors the past two weekends thought they were contributing to Notre Dame's Appalachian service projects. They were wrong. 
Instead, their contributions were going to the International Society for Krishna Concious­ness (ISKCON). 
Under the ISKCON name of "Appalachian Projects," indi­viduals have twice visited the Campus View apartments soliciting funds in exchange for stickers and University of Notre Dame hats. Door-to-door campaigns were conducted the weekend of Sept. 25 and this past Saturday, according to residents of the apartment complex. 
ISKCON members, affiliated with a Hare Krishna sect in Moundsville, West Virginia, have also been soliciting il­legally during Notre Dame football games for the past few years, according to Rex Rakow, director of Security at Notre Dame. 

Involved in legal cases ran­ging from murder and arson to fraud, the Moundsville sect has been implicated in copyright infringement of major league sports teams, Charles Schultz Peanuts' characters and major universities, including Notre Dame, according to the Wheel­ing (WVA) Register. 
"I'm going to have to issue you a citation for having too much fun," was one of the opening lines ISKCON solicitors used when speaking to the Campus View students. Senior Edward Starinchak said after issuing the citation and asking him to "pay his fine," the individual, dressed in reg­ular street clothes, identified 
see KRISHNAS, page 6 

A Weekend with Boston Col ege 
FRIDAY: 7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. . 8:15p.m.: Glee Club Fall Concert in Washington Hall. SATURDAY: 
a.m. to 5p.m.: Alumni Hospitality Center, Joyce ACC North Dome. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially invited for refreshments, entertainment, films and information. 9:30a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous. A closed meeting of the AA fellowship will convene in the Center for Social Concerns every home football weekend at this time. 10 a.m.: Performance by Shenanigans in the JACC North Dome. 
10:30 a.m.: Glee Club performance in the JACC North Dome. 
10:45 a.m.: Band Concert on the steps of the Administration Building. 
11:40 a.m.: Pre-game program in Notre Dame Stadium. Noon: Football: The Fighting Irish vs. Boston College Golden Eagles. After the game: Alumni Hospitality Center in the JACC North 
D 

Band may be 'bowl-bound' with the Irish 
By JIM WINKLER Staff Reporter 
If Notre Dame's football team plays in a post-season bowl game, which now appears likely, the Notre Dame March­ing Band should be bowl-bound as well, said Father William Beauchamp, executive vice­president of the University. 
Beauchamp said, "It's a matter of finances. If the bowl we go to pays enough to send the band without losing money, we will send the band." Beau­champ pointed out that in 1984 the Irish played SMU in the Aloha Bowl in Hawaii and the band did not go. "We figured that it would cost more than $240,000 to send the band to Hawaii. We just about broke even sending the people we did." 
Beauchamp indicated that any game other than the Aloha Bowl could possibly pay enough to send the band. In 1983, the Irish played in a minor bowl game, the Liberty Bowl, in Memphis and the band did go. 
As far as any major bowl game is concerned, Father Beauchamp said, "Put it this way. If we are playing on Jan. 1, the band will be there." That could take the Irish as far away as Miami, Dallas, New Or­leans, or Tempe. However, New Year's Day bowls generate a significantly greater amount of money for participating teams than the "minor" bowls do. This would allow the University to send the marching band. 
The cost of sending the band to a bowl, as Beauchamp indi­cated, is covered by bowl rev­enue. It is up to the band to make travel arrangements, said Father Beauchamp. The cost of the trip would depend on the city traveled to, the hotel accomadations, and whether or not the band charters a plane. Beauchamp also said that in the event of a bowl game during Christmas break, the band would have to decide whe­ther to fly members to South Bend or straight to the bowl city. 

As far as the band's plans go, said Band Director Luther Snavely, nothing has been laid out just yet. "We are just working on this week's game right now." Snavely indicated that as the fate of Notre Dame's football team becomes 
more  apparent,  the  band's  
plans  will  come  together  as  
well.  

"It's up to the football team right now," Snavely said. If Notre Dame does make it to a bowl game with the band ac­companying them, then Snavely will work out a finan­cial plan, as well as a musical one. 
r 
Friday, November 6, 1987

page 2 The Observer 

In Brief 
Winners and losers come out of every election, but in this case they came out of the same family. David Norris and his wife Marlene both ran for the Fawn Township, Pa. Board of Supervisors but only one was elected. Mrs. Norris, running as a Democrat, won re­election to the board with 245 votes, defeated her husband, a Republican, who had 177 votes. With three candidates and two seats open, it was assured one Norris would win. Mrs. Norris thought it would be both. Fawn Township, near Pittsburgh, has abouut 2,800 residents. -Associated Press 
Infections may affect AIDS by spurring evolution of the deadly disease from its latent form, according to a study conducted at the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Anthony Fauci and four colleagues were able to to dem­onstrate for the first time that a bodily mechanism can "turn on" the virus that causes AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Research suggests, but does not prove, that the virus can be. produced by ordinary infec­tions, the scientist said. -Associated Press 
A fight erupted Thursday between fans at a cricket tournament in Bombay, India. Twenty-one people were injured in a battle between Moslems and Hindus, in which gasoline-soaked rags were thrown, according to a city official. It was not known if anyone was injured by the gunfire of police who tried to quell the riot. The fight began when Hindus got angry at Moslem fans of the Pakistani team, who were celebrating India's loss to England in the World Cup Tournament.-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Glee Club will present its Fall Concert tonight at 8: 15 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets will be available at the door and they are free. -The Observer 
Expo Roma, an exposition of students' work from the '86-'87 Rome architecture studies program, will open today with a reception from 4:30 to 7 p.m. in the lobby of the Architecture building. The exhibit will run through Nov. 
14. -The Observer 
A Mass of Thanksgiving will be offered for all Library Bennefactors at 8 a.m. today in the library auditorium. Father David Burrell will be the celebrant. 
-The Observer 
R.C.I.A., a process for welcoming new members into the Catholic Church, meets on the next three Sundays, Nov. 8, 15, and 22 from 4 to 5:15p.m. in the Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room. All are welcome. -The Observer 
A campaign video for presidential candidate Bob Dole will be shown at noon in Room 112 of the Law School. 
-The Observer 
The JPW Committee needs juniors interested in taking pictures. For more information, call Bart at 3770 or Colleen at 2491. -The Observer 
The Philosophy Club will meet at 7p.m. on Monday, 
Nov. 9 in 210 O'Shaughnessy. All interested students are 
welcome. -The Observer 
Applications for fashion show tryouts for the Black Cultural Arts Festival are to be submitted no later than Friday, Nov. 13. To receive an application, contact Kim Stevenson at 4072. -The Observer 
Design Editor . .... .. .. .. Matt Breslin Design Assistant ............... Alison Cocks Typesetters........... Rebecca Gunderman ............................................. Tom Elliott News Editor ....................... Regis Coccia ........................................... Cathy Stacy Copy Editor ....... Liz Panzica Sports Copy Editor ......... Marty Strasen Irish Extra Editor . ......................... D.C. Irish Extra Design ...... .. Stewart Garcia Viewpoint Copy Editor . ........ Matt Guye Viewpoint Layout ............. Michelle Dall 
Accent Copy Editor .. Elizabeth Cornwell 
. Accent Layout................... Michelle Dall Typists................................ Jenn Cohlon ......................................... Cathy Haynes ND Day Editor .................... Greg Lucas SMC Day Editor ........... Suzanne Devine Photographer ..................... Todd Tucker Ad Design ....................... Jennifer Spong .. ..............................Charolette Kaufman .....................................Meli~sa Wochner .............................................. Patty Case 
De Ollleroer (USPS 599 2-<4000) is published Monday through Friday except durina exam and vacation periods. ne ObMner is published by the students of the University or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (W per semester) by writing ne ot.en-er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ne Olllener is • member or ne Aaodaled ....... All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-


Krishna fundraising can be hair-raising 
Question: Which of the following are Hare Krishnas? 
A) Happy, if misguided, souls who shave their heads, wear orange robes and dance and chant in airports. 
B) Pleasant, clean-cut young men and women who approach you at concerts, fairs, shopping centers or football games in order to solicit money for such charities as Meals-on-Wheels, Catholic Charities International, March-of­Dimes and the Appalachian Project. 
Answer: Both. 
Unfortunately, most people only think of Hare Krishnas as the former. If they realized that the "volunteer" who gives them a hat or a sticker and says, "I'm going to have to give you a citation for not having enough fun" is a member of a religious cult and probably has no connection to any legitimate charity, they might not be so inclined to give their money away. 
If they knew that members of the Interna­tional Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) have been implicated in drug-smuggling, insurance fraud, and that one of their gurus in Berkeley, Calif. was arrested for possession of drugs and automatic weapons they might not find the Krishnas quite so harm­less. 
In fact, the more you learn about the Hare Krishnas and their methods of fundraising, the less attractive they seem. 
The Krishna movement began in the United States in 1965 when a Hindu monk, Bhak­tivedanta Swami Prabhupada, arrived in New York from India after a two-month voyage on a steamship. Bhaktivedanta, or Srila Prab­hupada, as he is called by his followers, pre­sented a form of religion, which because of its rejection of materialism and worldliness in fa­vor of spirituality, was enthusiastically received by the American counter-culture of the 60s and 70s. 
To help overcome the stigma attached to their appearance, ISKCON members began to dis­
guise themselves while soliciting funds for the religion. In 1973, they began wearing conven­tional clothes to conceal their true identities. Now when soliciting funds the women wear dresses; the men wear wigs. 
The Krishnas also became more aggressive i~ their fundraising activities and began a prac­bee they call "picking." Picking involves the production of nonreligious articles such as pins, 
Mike Naughton t!'!' 
~

Accent Editor 

L 
e. 

L:.-.G.:lai~----1'---........;.__.L--.l..-...11-~ 
oriental art, American flags, stickers and 
clothes to give to "Karmis" (an pejorative term 
defining meat-eating outsiders) in exchange for 
donations. Picking also involves deliberately 
posing as a volunteer for the needy in order to 
make the unwary believe they are giving to a 
real charity. 

The Krishnas, however, feel that their decep­tion is justified. 
In his book, Hare Krishna in America, E. Burke Rochford quotes a member of ISKCON, "The money that people give, even if they do feel tricked, helps them spiritually. What would they do with the money anyway? They would spend it on some sense gratification, right? So we are actually rendering these people a special service, even though they may be so foolish that they can't recognize it." 
I for one have a tendency to dislike those who try to trick me. The next time someone gives me a sticker or hat and then demands money, I'm going to keep the sticker. If he presses me for a donation, I'll offer him a ham sandwich 
or a new wig. By the way, during the Christmas holidays Hare Krishnas dress like Santa Claus. Ho, ho, ho. 
~****************************************************~ 
* *
* ~ *
* P~ SEn * 
~ Undergrad Night •KRII• : : at the Alumni-Senior Club J& : 
************************************ :
* * 
!* with RECORD-A-TUNE !* ! Tuesday, November 10, 9:00 p.m. ! 
: *
* *· 
* *
* * 
!* You and your "act" sing lead vocals to one !* ! of 500 songs backed by original artists. t 

! The top three acts open for the
* COLLEGE COMEDY TOUR '87 
* on November 20.*
* 
* 
:
* 
!
* 
* 
!* 
* 
: ! Sponsored by SUB and WZZP
* I 
.t******************************'----------------· 
t
* 
** 
* 

r----------------t* 
I RECORD-A-TUNE ENTRY BLANK: I 1Name of Contact: 1 1Address: 1 1Phone no.: 1 
I I I Names of group members: I I RETURN TO SUB OFFICE, 2ND I
FLOOR LAFORTUNEI BY MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9 I 
I I 
~----~-­
Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 3 
Wreckage confirms death of university officials 
Associated Press 
BELLINGHAM, Wash. -The wreckage of a light plane car­rying three top officials of Western Washington Univer­sity was spotted at dusk Thursday after a daylong search, a Whatcom County Emergency Services spokes­man said. 
All four people aboard the plane, including the pilot, were killed, said spokesman Bill Quehrn. 
The plane crashed about eight miles northwest of Bellin­gham International Airport and one mile from Bellingham Bay. 
The badly damaged Cessna 310 was found in a densely wooded spot in an industrial area near Lake Terrell, north of the city, where crews had searched earlier in the day, Quehrn said. There was no evidence of a fire. 
Whatcom County sheriff's of­ficers cordoned off the area and planned to photograph and videotape the scene, he said. 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators were expected Friday morning to began probing the cause of the crash, Quehrn said. 
The plane disappeared after being cleared to land at the air­port Wednesday night. 
Listed as passengers on the plane were G. Robert Ross, 59, president of Western Washing­ton University; Jeanene DeLille, 38, WWU vice presi­dent for university advance­ment; and Don Cole, 50, univer­sity vice president for business and financial affairs. 
Ross was dean of students at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., from 1959 to 1962. 
The craft was flown by pilot Ty Hardin, who was returning the three college officials from Tacoma, 110 miles to the south, where they had addressed a gathering of WWU alumni. 
Some 100 ground searchers and seven to 10 light planes and helicopters had searched a 160­square-mile area Thursday. 
The search area extended roughly from Lummi Island off Bellingham, north to Point Whitehorn, east to Lynden and south along the Cascade foot­hills. 
An initial search for the twin­engine craft began late Wed­nesday when the plane was cleared for a Bellingham lan­ding by a control tower in Van­couver, British Columbia, which subsequently lost radar contact with the plane. 
Larry Hammaker, chief operating pilot for Cascade Flight School in Bellingham, said the six-seat plane was owned by the flight school but that Hardin was an experi­enced pilot with Horizon Air­lines who flew for Cascade 

Quehrn said earlier the Van­couver tower had the Cessna on radar during its landing ap­proach out of the northeast and recorded another radar blip at the south end of the field. 
Quehrn said the Vancouver tower also picked up a garbled transmission at the time but that the source of the transmis­sion was not known. 
Standard procedures at Bel­lingham's airfield are for planes which overshoot the runway on a landing attempt to circle over Bellingham Bay and make a new approach from the north. 
The airport is on the shore of the bay. 
~~~toru:-~#~ 
~t~\~ _.;Jc---~~ 
WE NEED YOUR 

il~IPJlill1r! 
IT'S OUR POLICY.-.. SPEAK NOW OR FOREVER HOLD YOUR PEACE/ 
NOV.~· f\orzy..v;1EY(MAJN ~6=}0v.....; ~~ (10CMt ~"ACI) B= )0,,.... ~.1· WAL7H(fclUIIILOIJIISl) 6:}0 ; AlUMNI (~ME.ICOO~r(M) B:?OP)o\. ~V. ~(0)· LEWtfr c~ PJIRTil!llll) b:JO,J!.; lAHM (ll<frlleiiT ~-1 6:}OPA. ~.~ft. ~LANNEI\ (PIT) b:JO I'A ; 61\ACE (PIT). B:}O P.At NO/.K~.:KEENAN (Co~) 6 :;o,,~~. ;lAm\11JNE. {~ERV nwu) 8=J~ 
during his spare time, Ham­The time the plane vanished maker said. would have been "just about 
Visibility on Wednesday the time the fog was comingnight was 3,000 feet, which is in," Whatcom County Under­the minimum for visual lan­sheriff Doug Gill said. dings. 

*************~ 
Can Notre : . * Dame Survive: 
Kim Garrison's: 21st b-day? : We'll see!!! !* 
* 
HAPPY 21st 
*
* 
B-DAY * 
* 
Love, * 
Kathy, : Mindy, & Wendy * 

*************~ 
_"W' 


Students * Parents * Alumni 
Sports Memorabilia Auction 
Century Center, South Bend (7:30 -until) 
conducted by 
Deane Kruse famous vintage car auctioneer 
Enjoy participating in the auction of many famous ND sports items 
IT Cotton Bowl football autographed by 1977 ND Nat'l Champions 
IT ND game football from 7..o victory over Alabama, 1980 
IT Dan Devine's ND shirts from ND victory over Alabama, 1976, and last minute 
victory over Michigan, 1980 
IT 3 ND Reisman Trophy winner autographed footballs 
IT 2 footballs autographed by Lou Holtz 
a Ara Parseghian and other game ball memorablia 
FOR THE GOLF FAN IT Replica of the putter Jack Nicklaus used to win the Masters in 198~:. autographed 
Allproceeds deductable and will benefit the National Council on Alcoholism-Michiana (Ara Parseghian, Chairman) min. door donation: $2.00 
L____________________________________________________________________________________ --­
Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 4 The Observer 
ND symposium focuses on stock market 
NYSE chairman's keyno1te to highlight investment ethics series 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER Senior Staff Reporter 
John Phelan Jr., chairman of the board of the New York Stock exchange, will be among the Wall Street leaders meeting with prominent theologians and academicians next Mon­day through Wednesday at Notre Dame for a public dis­cussion titled "Ethics in the In­vestment Industry.'' 
"While much has been writ­ten in recent months about the misdeeds of actors in the in­vestment community, and sug­gestions for new legislation ap­pear daily, the Notre Dame conference will move beyond the headlines and explore the ethical vision and institutional bonding that form the basis for a humane capitalism," said Notre Dame's Associate Provost Father Oliver Wil-Iiams, one of the conference conveners. 
The timeliness of the reeent crash of the stock market and the symposium are "absolutely coincidental. We have been planning the symposium for al­most a year," Williams said. 
"The crash gives focus to the whole question of invest­ments," said Williams. "A lot of people (at the symposium) will indirectly address what happened," he said. 
"There is no question that the (recent crash) has piqued in­terest in the symposium," Wil­liams said. Local newspapers had many questions and showed such a strong interest in the symposium that a press conference with Phelan willl be held Monday, Nov. 9, Williams said. 
"We are bringing top people together for a few days to dis­cuss what has gone awry or wrong and what has to be remedied (in the investment system)," Williams said. 
"We wanted to bring to­gether top experts from Wall Street with some top ethics people in the country because many of them have questions about the ethics in the indus­try," Williams added. 
"They have questions be­cause people make so much money so quickly, Williams said. "Most people think one million is a lot ; we are talking about figures like twenty mil­lion," he said. 
Williams said the sympo­sium has several goals. "The symposium is designed to dis­cuss how Judea-Christian and ethical values affect the finan­cial world," said Williams. "We see our mission at Notre Dame not only to teach stu­dents the best intellectual skills but we also hope to teach stu­dents ethical and moral values," he said. 
The symposium will take place during a period of three days and is divided into ten ses­sions. Some of the highlights from the first day include "The Insider Trading Scandal," in which economists will explain issues in the investment indus­try from an economic view­point. The keynote address by Phelan will also occur that day. 
''The keynote address will be an overview of how we can look at the whole investment indus­try in society and at how invest­ments have an important role in society," said Williams. 
The ethics of takeovers will be the subject of discussion in "The Wall Street Ethos," on the second day of the sympo­sium. Paul Tierney, a Notre Dame graduate, will be one of the speakers. 
"Tierney is a master of 
akeovers," said Williams. "He will explain how takeovers lc>ontribute to more efficient in­kiustry and how they achieve !more good (in society)," Wil­
iams said. 



Other topics included in the symposium are "God and Wall Street," in which Donald Shriver Jr., president of the New York Union Theological Seminar will speak, and "Some Legal Aspects," in which Notre Dame law professors G. Robert Blakey and Patricia O'Hara will speak. 
"Some of the discussions will be presented from complemen­tary viewpoints, others from opposing viewpoints," said Williams. All discussions will be held in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion and are open to all Notre Dame faculty and students. 
The symposium's conveners are John Houck, professor of management, Frank Reilly, Bernard J. Hank, professor of business, and Williams. The symposium is sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Busi­ness, the College of Business Administration and the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Department of Alumni Con­tinuing Education in coopera­tion with the University's Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
Exchange chairmen, ethicists among scheduled speakers 
John Phelan Jr. is chairman and chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange. He received his undergraduate degree in business administra­tion from Adelphi University and was awarded an honorary doctorate from Hamilton Col­lege. Phelan serves as director of Securities Industry Automa­tion Corporation, and is past chairman of the board of the 

John Weithers is the Chair­man of the Board of the Mid­west Stock Exchange. Weit­hers graduated from Notre Dame and received his MBA from DePaul University. He served as a U.S. Naval Officer for two years. In 1958, he joined the Midwest Stock Exchange as an examiner. Weithers was subsequently promoted to sec­retary, senior vice president and executive vice president. 

Donald Shriver 
Burton Leiser is the Edward 

J. Mortola Professor of Philos­ophy at Pace University. Leiser studied at the Univer­sity of Chicago, Yeshiva Uni­versity and received a Ph.D. from Brown University and a 
J.D. from Drake University. He has taught at Fort Lewis Col­lege, SUNY, Sir George William University in Montreal, and Drake Univer­sity. Leiser has authored: Cus-
Robert Wilmouth 

He was appointed president and chief operating officer of the Exchange in 1980 and in 1983, was named chairman and chief executive officer. Weit­hers is a member of DePaul University's Board of Trus­tees, a director of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry, and a director of the Federal (Mutual) Life Insur­ance Company. 
Donald Shriver is the presi­dent of the Union Theological Seminary in New York. Shriver studied at Davidson College, Union Theological Seminary, Yale University and received his Ph.D. from Harvard Uni­versity. Shriver is an internationally-recognized scholar and spokesman in the field of Christian Ethics and a past president of the American 
tom, Law and Morality; Liber­ty, Justice and Morals and Values in Conflict. He has writ­ten many articles on topics ran­ging from archaeological dis­coveries to capital punishment and terrorism in such journals as International Journal of Et­hics, Standard Review of Inter­
national  Law, Judaism,  The  
Journal  of  Business  and  
Professional  Ethics,  and  
others.  

Robert Wilmouth has served as President of the National Futures Association since the organization began operations in 1982. For five years prior to that, he was the president and chief executive officer of the Chicago Board of Trade. Wil­mouth served in the banking in­dustry for 27 years. As seni1or vice president of the First Na­tional Bank of Chicago, Wil­mouth was responsible for con-New York Futures Exchange. The trustees of Adelphi College elected Phelan chairman of the board. He was decorated Knight Sovereign order of Malta and Knight Sovereign or­der of Holy Sepulchre. Phelan was appointed to the Cardinal's Commission of Laity; and he has been awarded many honors for working with youth in New York. 
Society of Christian Ethics. Shriver has written over 60 ar­ticles and 9 books, including: An Introduction to Christian Ethics for Young People; Rich Man, Poor Man; Medicine and Religion; Redeeming the City; Spindles and Spires: A Study of Religion and Social Change in Gastonia; and The Lord's Prayer: A Way of Life. 
Burton Leiser 
struction of the present bank's headquarters in Chicago. He was elected executive vice president in 1972 and named to the bank's Board of Directors in 1973. He is the former pres­ident, chief administrative of­ficer and director of Croches National Bank of San Fran­cisco. Wilmouth currently is a member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and chair­man of its Investment Commit­tee. 

Schedule of events 
Monday, November 9 
2 p.m.: The Insider Trading Scandal: Understanding the Prob­
lem Gregg Jarrell, former chief economist of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
3:30p.m.: The Ethical Issues: An Outline Richard DeGeorge, University Professor of Philosohpy, Uni­versity of Kansas; Clarence C. Walton, Charles Lamont Post Distinguished Professor of Ethics and the Professions, Amer­ican College. Response: Drew Christiansen, S.J., professor of theology, Notre Dame. 
7:30p.m.: Keynote Address John J. Phelan, Jr., chairman, New York Stock Exchange 
Tuesday, November 10 
8:45p.m.: The Resource of Ethics and Religion Burton M. Leiser, Edward J. Mortola Professor of Philosophy, Pace University; Dennis McCann, professor of religious studies, DePaul University. 
10 p.m.: Response and Audience Questions Richard McCormick, S.J., John A. O'Brien Professor of Chris­tian Ethics, Notre Dame. 
1:30 
p.m.: The Wall Street Ethos Paul Tierney, Coniston Partners and Sabre Associates Response: Kirk 0. Hanson, Stanford University, graduate school of business. 

2:45 p.m.: Some Legal Aspects 

G. 
Robert Blakey, O'Neill Professor of Law, Notre Dame, Patricia O'Hara, professor of law, Notre Dame. Response: James Zimarowski, professor of business law, Notre Dame. 


4 p.m.: The Industry Perspective Alfred C. Morley, president and chief executive officer, The Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts, Robert Wilmouth, president and chief executive officer, National Futures Asso­ciation. 
7:30p.m.: God and Wall Street: Some Reflections Donald W. Shriver, Jr., president, New York Union Theological Seminary. 
Wednesday, November 11 
8:30p.m.: Impact of Proposed Legislation John G. Weithers, chairman of the board, Midwest Stock Ex­change; Willliam B. Smith, Dean Witter Capital Markets. 
10 p.m.: Some Thoughts for the Future George P. Brockway, former chairman, W. W. Norton and Company; Gerald F. Cavanagh, professor of management, University of Detroit, Michael Novak, Visiting Welch Profes­sor of American Studies, Notre Dame. 
All sessions are in the auditorium at the CCE and are open to Notre Dame students and faculty. 

l 
l 
~
ND prof attributes market crash to traders' fear 
Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer 
By PAT HEALY 
News Staff 
The stock market's Oct. 19 crash occurred because of the fears of traders and investors that were triggered by recent political events, said Kevin Scanlonm Notre Dame profes­sor of finance. 
In a lecture Thursday night, Scanlon said the fears which caused the crash were of two categories-fears that had been building up beforehand and recent ones that triggered the market's plummet. 
Scanlon said anxieties such as the fear of inflation, the plunging dollar, the budget def­icit and the trade deficit had been building up in investors' minds. 
A more recent fear that keyed the crash was a legisla­tion in the House of Represen­tatives increasing tax on busi­ness mergers and acquisitions, Scanlon said. The legislation caused panic due to widescale profits made by watching for takeovers and mergers, he said. Stockholders began sell­ing in fear of the new legisla­tion. 
What Scanlon called the real "spark" of the crash was the bombing of inoperative Iranian oil platforms the same day of the crash. 
It was unclear on Wall Street whether the platforms were ac­tive, Scanlon said, adding that unwary investors then began to quickly sell their stocks. 
In an effort to counteract massive selling in the market, middlemen bought up un­wanted stock, Scanlon said. Middlemen then began selling after it was announced the market would close early. 
The disastrous event of the day, according to Scanlon, oc­curred when the Wall Street ticker fell behind by an hour or two due to the largest trading volume in the market's history. 
The buying and selling in dif­ferent markets became un­stable because of the time lapse, resulting in what Scan­lon estimated was a loss of 250 of the 500 points lost that day. 
are better with 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
• Group Charters &Tours  • Card Tables  
• Restrooms  • Radios  
• Your DESIGNATED Driver  • Tape Players  

CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 
287·8677 
401 E. Colfax Suite 212 • South Bend, IN 46617 
are better with 
CARDINAL 
CHARTERS & TOURS 287·8677 
WEDNESDAY, 
NOVEMBER 18-8:00 MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERVED S15.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE, 
NIGHTWINDS (NILES NORTH VILLAGE MALL). SUPER 
SOUNDS (ELKHART) AND J.R.'S (LAPORTE). 

CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219-284-9190 
Scanlon said he thinks the crash will not significantly af­fect the University's endow­ment because Notre Dame's in­vestments are diversified. 
He said Notre Dame "weat­hered the storm as well as anyone could'' and there should be no effect on tuition. 
Scanlon said he "doesn't believe we're facing doom" be­cause of the stock market's growth over long time periods. He pointed out that since 1927, the stock market is up 10 per­cent per year average. In com­parison, over the last decade stocks are up 14 percent per year. 

Scanlon said the market averaged a 20 percent increase each year over a five-year per­iod, beginning Aug. 1982. 
This increase has been de­emphasized in newspapers, Scanlon said, adding that he sees the market as still a solid long-term investment. 
Physician speaks against nuclear war 
By KRISTIN COLLIGAN 
News Staff 
Embracing nuclear weapons as a means of defense is a paradox according to Robert Lifton, founding member of Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. 
"Nuclearism is the embrace of the bomb, a destructive force, as a form of salvation." 
Lifton  said  Thursday  night  
during  a  lecture in the Res­ 
burgh  Library  auditorium.  

"The bomb is embraced as a means of defense, security, safety, peace, deterence." 
The Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings that ended World War II marked the beginning of an American cultural crisis, Lifton, a member of Notre Dame's Instutitue for Interna­
tional Peace Studies said. "Nuclear fear, consisting of deep anxiety and the fear of fu­
~, '' 1 
' ' • f 

Robert Lifton 
turelessness," he said, " stems from the Hiroshima bomb." 
"Fear that the Soviets would get the bomb was actually a displacement of the overall fear of the bomb itself," he said. 

Lifton said he sees hope in the "principle of species fate" which he said has recently emerged. 
This principle is "a recogni­tion of shared fate," according to Lifton. "In the case of the 
U.S. and the Soviet Union," he said, "it is inconceivable that either society would survive with the disruption of the 
ot~~h~ societies and their leaders are beginning to recog­nize that whatever our ideologies, we are bound up by the same fate," said Lifton. 
Lifton's lecture was the first in a series of three entitled "The Cost of Militarism," ac­cording to the director of the Institute for International Peace Studies, John Gilligan. 
Einstein's manuscript obtained 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A previously unknown manuscript by Albert Einstein discussing his theory of relativity will be sold by Sot­heb 's next month. It is the ear-

ironwood 
wines and spirits 
Domestic and Imported wines beers liquors. (219) 272-7144 
I 725 NORTH IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND, IN 466.35 
Applications available for 
STUDENT UNION BOARD SECRETARY 
-be a part of SUB -get involved with steering committee, the planning arm of SUB. 
Pick up Applications at Student Union Board office, 2nd Floor LaF ortune-due Tuesday, November 1 0 
SEX on CAMPUS: Aids and other sexually transmitted diseases 
Monday) November 9 
7:00 pm-film "Beyond Fear" 
8:00 pm-panel discussions and questions 
Location: Theodore's 
man, has never been published and was written by Einstein about 1912 for the fifth volume of the "Handbuch der Radiologie" ("Dictionary of Radiology"). It could fetch $500,000 or more at auction, a Sotheby's official said. 
The article, which he wrote for fellow scientists, was to have been published by Profes­sor Erich Marx in Leipzig, Ger­many. However, World War I deterred publication. 
"It's the most complete review of relativity he ever wrote," said John Stachel, editor of "The Collected Papers of Albert Einstein," in an interview. "It is the earliest manuscript of an Einstein paper known to be in existence and an extremely long one." 
Einstein promulgated the special relativity theory in 1905. It deals with the relation­ships among space, time, mat­ter and energy, and includes his formula: energy equals mass times the speed of light squared. The theory says the speed of light is constant regardless of whether the source of light is moving. 
His general theory of relativity, which came later, includes gravity. 
The famous equation ap­pears in different forms in the manuscript and at one point is stated with an extra algebraic constant that Einstein later crossed out because he thought it was unnecessary. 
"The manuscript gives valu­able insight into Einstein's thinking," said Dr. Spencer Weart, director of the Center for the History of Physics of the American Institute of Physics. "You see him groping around towards a general theory of relativity in the manuscript." 
"In many respects, it's ex­traordinary," said David Red­den, Sotheby's senior vice pres­ident in charge of rare books and manuscripts. "It is ex­tremely difficult to estimate (the value of) something like this because nothing is compa­rable. 
liest surviving manuscript on the scientist's important con­cept and illuminates his think­ing during the height of his powers. 
The 72-a e work in Ger­

Friday, November 6, 1987 

page 6 The Observer 
Alternative site sou~ght to house final pep rallies 
By PATRICK O'CONNOR Staff Reporter 
Tonight's pep rally for the Boston College game will be held at the traditional Stepan Center loction, but this year's final rally for the Alabama game may be held at a new site. 
The Office of Student Activi­ties confirmed Wednesday that Stepan Center has been reserved by the Pep Rally Committee for the two remain­ing rallies. However, Tim Bud­den, co-chairman of the Pep Rally Committee, said that the possibility exists of holding the Alabama pep rally outdoors on Stepan Courts. 
The poor acoustics, stiffling heat, and inability to adE!­quately accomodate the large crowds associated with pep rallies at Stepan Center are the motives that led the Pep Rally Committee to consider an all­ternative location. 
The main problem involved with holding a pep rally out­doors, besides the uncertainty of the weather, is the sound sys-and other concerned and indoor pep rally site is bleak, tern, said Budden. He is await-spirted students to seek a new ing the athletic department's pep rally venue earlier this place that should matter, it's response about the funding for year. what we're doing there" that the rental of a quality, portable people should be concerned sound system. According to Stark considers both the with. Budden, the Pep Rally Com-Loftus Football Arena and the mittee also plans to appeal to Eck Tennis Pavilion to be Furthermore, Stark hopes to the Alumni Association for the plausible pep rally sites. The organize an impromptu gather­needed funds should the ath-administration, however, has ing of Notre Dame fans to rally letic department refuse thusfar denied permission for the Irish before the away game monatery assistance. either to be used because of the at Miami on Nov. 28. According 
The abundance of problems potential damage of the artifi-to Stark, "If I have to, I'll run and detractions involved with cal turf and tennis courts. the rally myself, in my room Stepan Center has prompted ... but there will be a pep rally the Leprechaun, Brian Stark, While the outlook for a new for Miami." 
~------~-------------------------------------------
Krishnas 
continued from page 1 
himself as a representative of Appalachian Projects. 
Although the ISKCON solicitor never said he was from either of the two Notre Dame Appalachian groups who provide service and funds to the impoverished areas of the Appalachian Mountains, at least some of the students ap­proached said they thought their donation was going to those groups. Senior William Hayes said he donated $5 be­cause he thought the Appalac­hian Projects group soliciting would benefit some of the same programs which Notre Dame works with. 
Lt. Rick Kilgore of the South Bend Police Department said he has not heard of any com­plaints and added that the group must have targeted the Notre Dame area. 
Dorene Muszer, secretary of the Campus View Apartments, said the complex has a no solicitation policy and that they will kick the solicitors out if they come back. Muszer said she has received a few com­plaints about the incident. 
Students said the solicitor 
used the back entrances of the 
apartment breezeways. 
There is no indication of how 
much money was donated to 
ISKCON. 
Rakow said the group uses 
Notre Dame hats and stickers 
as a source of funds for the 
Hare Krishna group to operate. 
He said the group has no au­
thorized vending permit to dis­
tribute these items in exchange 
for donations at football 
games. 
Two members affiliated with 
the Moundsville Hare Krishna 
community were arrested last 
November for trespassing in 
connection with unauthorized 
selling of Notre Dame 
souvenirs. 
Rakow said one man was ar­
rested at last weekend's Navy 
game, but he said he did not 
know whether he was affiliated ~~a~mm~~~mm~~~ 
with ISKCON. In the past, Rakow said ISKCON members have col­lected donations for a boys
school called Nandagram, one of many organizations which operate under the ISKCON umbrella. 
Colleen Prentice, chairper­son of the CILA chapter on campus, said the fundraising by ISKCON has "absolutely nothing to do with our own proj­ects." She said CILA has been working with the Appalachian area for about 10 years and does conduct fundraising, but not for the groups which ISKCON supports. 
"We regret something like this had to happen, people thinking they were donating to a good cause," said Prentice. 
Sue Cunningham, special projects coordinator for the Center for Social Concerns, called the incident "upset­ting." The CSC offers a pro­gram where students travel to Appalachian areas to volunteer their time and learn about the region's problems. 
Cunningham said "not a dime" collected by ISKCON goes to the Appalachian pro­grams in which Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students par­ticipate. 
A representative of the Hare Krishnas in West Virginia defended the programs which 

ISKCON supports. Steve Cris , 
A Hare Krishna sticker bearing the 'Appalachian Projects' sign 
who described himself as fundraising coordinator for ISKCON, said the money goes to feed the needy in a newly established community in West V,irginia through a vegetarian meals on wheels program and to help people establish "true goals" in life. 
Crisp said he could not name the individuals working in the zation reportedly uses the 4,000 acre Hare Krishna facility in West Virginia as a distribution center. 
ISKCON distributes hats and other materials to its followers and in return, the donations col­lected are mailed back to the headquarters. One check, writ­ten by senior W. Daniel Mic­helini to "Appalachian Proj­
ects" was deposited by ISKCON in a local Wheelingbank. 
Rakow said the Hare Krishnas work near all major sporting events and activities. "They come in van loads and spread out everywhere," he 
said. 
Crisp said he apologized if people were confused about where the Appalachian Project donations were going. He said ISKCON workers are advised about the proper way to solicit and do have permission to sell trademarked Notre Dame ma­terials. 
Two companies, Twins En­terprise and Universal, sold the Notre Dame materials to ISKCON, according to Crisp. Assistant General Counsel Pat Lyons said these companies are licensed suppliers for Notre Dame. 
Lyons, however, said ISKCON is being investigated for copyright infringement by federal authoriti~s after they seized a major supply of hats and other materials bearing in­signias of major universities 
and professional sports teams. 

(containing Notre Dame rna­terials) were seized in that raid," she said. 
The Wheeling Register re­ported Jan. 5 and Jan. 22, 1987 raids of business records, sports caps and stickers by federal authorities for viola­tions of federal copy tradmark and importation statutes. 
The Register said the second raid occurred after Hare Krishnas across the country, similar to the individuals working in South Bend, became scared after the first raid and failed to pick up their sports materials. 
Charles Schultz, creator of Peanuts, filed a multi-million dollar lawsuit for damages from the ISKCON use of his Snoopy character, and Major League Baseball has filed a $27 million dollar lawsuit for copyright infringement. 
The Hare Krishnas have claimed that they have not in­fringed upon copyrights be­cause they are a non-profit or­ganization. Also, they claim that they do not sell the mer­chandise, but rather give it away as gifts for donations, said the Register. 

Make your Notre Dame weekendAFTER a complete treat with dinner at NOTRE DAME ~iller's Country House. See us 
s1zzle and sear the freshest seafood, steaks and chops overTHE an open charcoal grill. Try our Indonesian Satay, Blackened
HOTTEST 
Fish, or the incredible rack of lamb. Don't miss the famous
GAME 

flourless chocolate cake and our own ice creams made with freshAROUND fruits. Enjoy the informal 

atmosphere of a country saloon in our grill room or delight in the woodland view from the garden room. Fabulous food, great drinks and a smashing decor. 
COlJN'm.Y,HOUSE 
LIVE JAZZ SUNDAYS
616-469-5950 

On Route 12 in Union Pier, MI/Just 30 minutes from South Bend SEE HARBOR COUNTRY SECTION OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PROGRAM 
of boxes:;;;;;;;;;;;;=F~O;R;DI~R~EC;T;IO;NS;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 

ue Blockers Are Cool! 

•
You won't believe your eyes

•Clearer, 
Sharper, More 3D Vision 

•A 
vailable in your prescription for the first time 

•Blocks 
harmful UV rays and vision blurring blue 

•A 
viailable in the latest designer frame styles 

•Only 
at Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical

•Ask 
for your student discount 


·~~r.::~~~:..Rd ior.::~E:a~~~~:. mllllllllt~••=··-w~·
ij.liij·i!·a·~~.~~IIII 
aaou from .sa.udalc Mall next door to O.CO Drua 
291-4000 258-5000 


Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 7 
Rare Rembrandt collection on exhibit at the Snite 

-. 
I 

Hurry! quantities are limited. ONE PER STUDENT ONLY. 
I 

Name ---------------------· 
I 

Address __________________ 
Stop by our B.C. I 
City ________ State __ Zip Code 
concession I 
Phone#

stand outside 
I 

This coupon is your entry to the Schick Super II Plus Athletic Bag Sweepstakes. 
Alumni Hall 
Rembrandt dealt with four particular subjects in his art: landscapes, portraits, genre scenes and biblical in­terpretations. Spiro selected the bibli­cal theme because it is the "most force­ful and spiritual." The history of Rembrandt's work shows the figure Jesus as his ideal, and the first portrayal of Jesus with Jewish features. 
Porter said that although Rembrandt is popularly known as a distinct painter, he was also a master of the etching technique. This technique uses metal plates, wax and acid to create more complex effects. 
The Rembrandt exhibition is one of the most treasured at the Snite. Porter said from the 72 extant impressions, the Snite display contains 70, with at least 50 of them qualified as "good or superb" in regards to condition and rarity of states. 
There is no admission charge to the exhibition and the museum hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m.; and Thursday, 4 to 8 p.m. 
Hurley 
continued from page 1 
good, so he has to concentrate -which he finds very hard every time a cute girl walks by!" 
Hurley, who is currently par­ticipating in freshman English and finite mathematics at Bos­ton College as a part of a cogni­tive therapy program, had a very traumatic freshman year at Notre Dame. On September 7, 1985, shortly after 3 a.m., Hurley was struck by a hit and run driver on US 31-33, the high­way which separates Notre Dame from St. Mary's. 
Hurley suffered from a frac­tured pelvis, a broken leg, a bruised lung, and multiple head injuries. He also had his lower left leg amputated and suffered from significant memory loss. 
Celeste Hurley says that Kevin's reading ability is still slow, and there is a delay in information, but he hopes to eventually become a full-time college student once again. 
The Hurleys are presently trying to organize a group of Notre Dame alumni and South Bend citizens to promote the building of an overpass over highway US 31-33. They hope to reduce the risk of pedestrians being struck by cars. 
"Even if all students don't utilize the overpass," said Hur­ley, "at least we'll be providing them with an alternative." 
The Hurleys are planning to meet with Notre Dame officials during their stay to discuss the history of similar, past proposals. Hurely said they are 
working on overcoming the stumbling blocks they will surely encounter if the mea­sure is agreed on. Mrs. Hur­ley emphasizes that Kevin is still a staunch Notre Dame fan and will definitely cheer on the Fighting Irish in the upcoming Notre Dame vs. Boston college game. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

By GINA CAMARENA 
Staff Reporter 
A rare collection of 70 biblical etchings by 17th century Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn is currently on dis­play at the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit presents a complete group of works and will be displayed in the O'Shaughnessy galleries until Jan. 31, 1988. The collection took 10 years to complete and represents almost the en­tire Old and New Testament narra­tives. 
Director of the museum, Dean Porter, believes the exhibition will show the process of etching and familiarize students with Rembrandt's works. Porter said the religious nature is part of the uniqueness of the collec­tion. "Rembrandt's Protestant attitude is reflected in his work," Porter said, "but he speaks in a universal language­-one that has a staggering effect on people." 
Greatly impressed with Rembrandt's style, Jack and Alfrieda Freddersen of Elkhart, Indiana are responsible for gathering the unique pieces from around the world and placing them in a permanent home at the Snite in 1980. Curator Stephen Spiro said the Fedder­sens "wanted to keep Rembrandt in the community and decided that Notre Dame was a special place for them." 
The etchings are stored in a temper­ature controlled environment until they are put on display. Every three years the entire collection is exhibited, but at least five of the etchings are presented on a yearly basis. This year the collec­tion is displayed in a chronological fas­hion according to subject matter. The earliest etching is dated 1626, when Rembrandt was 20 years old, and the collection spans to 1658, 11 years before his death. 
Friday, November 6, 1987

page 8 The Observer 
Deadline past, peace plans goon 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-The author of the Central American peace plan said Thursday that only a negotiated truce in Nicaragua will make it work, and the Sandinistas called a rally to hear President Daniel Ortega declare whether one is possible. 
Ortega returned from a quick trip to the Soviet Union in search of more aid and planned to announce new moves toward implementation of the peace plan at the rally Thursday night. He gave no hint in ad­vance of what he would say. 
Thursday originally was the deadline for implementing cease-fires, amnesties and moves toward democracy re­quired by the peace agree­ment. With progress on some points stalled, however, the region's foreign ministers said 
Democrats avoid issue for peace 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Dem­
ocratic opponents of aid to 
Nicaragua's Contra rebels 
backed off from an impending 
fight over the issue today, 
fearing a possible loss might 
send negative signals as the 
deadline arrived for implemen­
tation of a five-nation peace 
agreement in Central America. 
The issue had been raised as 
the House took up a stopgap 
money bill to keep the govern­
ment running past Tuesday. 
The legislation, passed on a 
vote of 256-159, included $3.2 
million in non-lethal aid for the 
Contras. 
Democrats, led by Rep. 
David Bonior of Michigan, had 
planned to ask on the House 
floor for tight restrictions to 
prevent the CIA from deliver­
ing the aid through airdrops to 
rebel troops inside Nicaragua. 
Instead, the aid should be 
routed through an interna­
tional relief agency such as the 
Red Cross, Democrats said. 
"You threaten to blow up this 
whole (peace) process," with­
out such a restriction, Bonior 
argued. "We will be giving a 
tremendous excuse to the gov­
ernment of Nicaragua to break 
this whole thing off.'' 
But Republicans threatened 
to mount a major fight over the 
Bonior amendment, and 
Bonior decided not to press the 
issue, fearing that it could 
prompt members on the ex­
treme left and right to oppose last week that only progress 
toward peace would be re­
quired. 
The presidents of Nicaragua, 
El Salvador, Guatemala, Hon­
duras and Costa Rica signed 
the agreement Aug. 7 in 
Guatemala City. They allowed 
90 days for implementation. 
Banners of red and black, the colors of the ruling Sandinista National Liberation Front, and the blue and white Nicaraguan flag were strung across wide avenues and tied around rows of trees in Managua. 
White cloth banners made some of the leftist govern­ment's attitudes clear. 
"Peace with dignity, no to the suspension of the state of emer­gency," they said, and "talks yes, but with the owners of the circus." Lettered in red, "total amnesty, never. never. never." 
Owners of the circus refers 
the spending measure and defeat it.
,----------------,1
1 Use this coupon at 11 
to the United States, which pro­vides aid to the Contra rebels. Ortega's government has demanded talks with Washing­ton and refused so far to negotiate with the Contras. 
President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica, who devised the peace plan and won the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize for his ef­forts, said "the essence" of peace in the region is "reach­ing a negotiated cease-fire in Nicaragua." 
"Unless we do this . . . we won't be able to force Honduras to get rid of the Contras,'' Arias said at a news conference Thursday morning in San Jose, Costa Rica. "Once we have a negotiated cease-fire, the Con­tras will become refugees in Honduras, Costa Rica or Miami and they won't be sol­diers anymore." 
LOWEST RATES 
VISA MASTERCARD 
$1 
1 

$1 off any delivery purchase with this coupon 
I COUNTY MARKET 1 
I to redeem $2.00 off our 
1

I 4 or 6 foot giant 1 submarines
I *orders must I placed 2 days I advance* 
Security Beat 
Tuesday November 3 
8:00p.m. A Pasquerllla West res­Ident reported vandalism to her car that was parked in the D2lot between Oct. 31 and Nov. 3. Repair of the car will cost $150. 
8:12 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his car stereo while his car was parked in the D2 lot. His loss Is estimated at $350. The theft occurred between Oct. 31 and Nov. 3. 
8:22 p.m. A Brownson Hall resi­
dent  turned  in  a  pair  of  men's  
prescription  eyeglasses  that  he  
found  on  the  west  side  of  
O'Shaughessey Hall.  

Wednesday, November 4 
5:05a.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported that his car was vandalized in the D1 lot. 
8:45 a.m. A Koontz-Wagner Electric employee reported the theft of miscellaneous electrical brass connectors and parts from the In· diana and Michigan Power Substa­tion. This occurred between Oct. 21 and Nov. 3. Replacement is esti­mated at $3000. 
11:47 a.m. An off-campus student reported losing his wallet at the Lewis bus shelter around 5 a.m. His loss is estimated at $25. 
9:06a.m. A St. Mary's student re­ported the loss of her class ring on the second floor of the Hesburgh Li­brary. Her ring is worth $220. 
1:17 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported the theft of two speakers and a pair ofeyeglasses from his car while it was parked in Green Field between Saturday, Oct. 31 and Mon­day, Nov. 2. His loss is estimated at $480. 

Thursday, November 5 
12:15 p.m. At the request of the Snite Museum, an abandoned wo­man's bike was removed from a tree outside the building by Security. The bike was tagged and Is being held at the Security OMce. 
3:30 p.m. A Farley Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the South Dining Hall between 
12:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. Her loss Is estimated at $180. 
. 4:47p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported being followed by a suspi­cious vehicle on her way to work. The suspect fled before Security ar­ri 
.

Enjoy a untque 
experience in oriental dining. 
Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
6.329 University Commons South Bend IN 
272-6702 

wtrHsPECIALGuEsrCARL LaBOVE FRIDAY, NOV.13-8 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM-SOUTH BEND Tickets available at Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office, Nightwinds in Niles and Northvillage Mall, Sup~rsound in Elkhart, JR's in Laport, or Charge by Phone with Visa/MasterCard: 
219/284-9190 


~3REAKIN,G T~l R~~~~~ ~ 
COUPON 

z
deli 

0 NAUGLES
1 
II 

Q.c 272-5455
;J 
0 
Free Delivery
be I 

u 
$6 minimum purchase 


LIMIT ONE COUPON PER ORDER offer expires 1213W7 
in I 
II 

$1 COUPON $1
L----------------J 
------------....1 
Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 9

The Observer 
Black leader freed in S.Africa 

Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -The government today announced the release of Govan Mbeki, a 77-year-old former leader of the outlawed African National Congress who has been in prison for more than two decades. 
Mbeki, one of the nation's most prominent black leaders, was among eight ANC mem­bers, including Nelson Man­dela, who received life sen­tences in 1964. 

The Prisons Service said Mbeki, a former ANC national chairman, would be freed today from the Robben Island prison off Cape Town, where he has been held since his convic­tion on charges of sabotage. 
No other details were avail­able immediately. However, the government arranged for a news media pool to fly to the southern city of Port Elizabeth, near the home of Mbeki's wife, Epainette. 
Mrs. Mbeki runs a small shop in the town of Idutywa, in the black homeland of Transkei. The town is about 180 miles east of Port Elizabeth. 
Mbeki is considered a man of intellectual prowess. Prior to his imprisonment, he had a varied career, working as a teacher, businessman, jour­nalist, author and politician. 
Mbeki was born in 1910 in Transkei, a black homeland along the southeastern coast, where his father was a tribal chief deposed by the govern­ment. 
c~ 
~---_/ 
This week at the Snite Individual admission $2.00 

Friday. Nov. 6, 7:30 & 9:45 Paul Newman and Tom Cruise In 
THE COLOR OF MONEY (1986) 
Marlin ~.,.lbroeoe directs this explosive sequel to THE HUSTLER. This grittily reallsllc drama Immerses viewers In a corrupt and greedy world where winning · at any cost · Is the namE' or the game. 
Mon. Nov. 9, 7:00pm 

Tues. Nov. 10, 7:00pm THE MOST 
LA CHINOISE (1967) DANGEROUS 
A radical ftlm e•perlment by Jean-I.uc-Godard about GAME (1933) 
nve peoplewhodecldetollve together according to the precepto or chairman Mao. 
Tues. Nov. 10, 9:00pm 
'1.--......:..:.::;;.:.:___~THE ADVENTURES OF Mon. Nov. 9, 9:00pm 
BUCKAROO BANZAI THE HUSTLER ( 1961) Paul Newman and Jackie 



1 1 
By law and custom, South Africa's apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. 
UOWDr 
DDOUYS 
SALOON I DANCING 50's & 60's MUSIC 3:30PM-2:00AM 
Vaneann Millikan,a freshman at Saint Mary's,does some serious studying for her classes in the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
GO 
IRISH! 
US 33 at Stateline Niles, Ml 
( 616) 684-1904 

FREE BUFFET 5-9 PM 7DAYS AWEEK 

Phone: 111'1! 234-W.W 
Friendly, homelike atmosphere 1893 Inn 
Near universities and downtown 

420 We'l Wa,hinglnn Sl. • Sotllh Bend. IN 4111101 
Cooke 
continued from page 1 
teresting and I'd be very will­ing and receptive to discuss any plans and ideas which try to improve relations," he said, adding that student govern­ment has also initiated a pro­gram to increase interaction with city government. 
"This year we have a Notre Dame-South Bend liaison who has been establishing contact with members of the city coun­cil as well as members of the mayor's department," Cooke said. 
Members of the South Bend community were also invited to a luncheon sponsored by stu­dent government earlier in the semester to discuss problems facing off-campus students, Cooke explained. 
You Want A Readable Portable? 

So readable the characters jump off the screen. More power. Less weight. And an IBM PC®-compatible $1399 operating system. Here's the Zenith Data Systems Z-181 PC ... a laptop with all the features of a desktop! And we can even put a spin on it ... 
Now, the Z-181 Laptop PC can be yours at a great 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER CENTER 
student price when you visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. We'll give you a full demon­
COMPUTER-MATH BUILDING

stration, and match you up with the right software and peripherals. To give you a computer that can take you from college to career! 
DEMO LAB 239-5600 

So stop by today. And while you're at it, ask about the Z-183 PC ... our most powerful laptop yet. See 
711'"" 1data
~ systems

you soon! 
THE OlWJlY GOES IN BER:lRE THE NAME GOES ON 

-~-------~ 

The Observer I Todd Tuclter

On the mark 
Senior John Buselbach displays his pool room prowess in the LaFortune Student Center. The pool room is a favorite place for study breaks or to pass the time between classes. 
Gulf raids continue; U.S.. mine sweepers try water·s 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Iran and Iraq sent their warplanes to raid each other's territory Thursday, and an Iranian leader said he sees "no hope" that the United Nations can achieve a truce in the 7-year­old war. 
At the Pentagon, the Defense Department announced that two reflagged tankers arrived in Kuwaiti waters, after a trip through the Persian Gulf with 
U.S. warships. 
Newly arrived American mine sweepers conducted exer­cises to familiarize themselves with the gulf area, and four British mine-hunting vessels steamed to the central gulf to begin operations off Bahrain. 
War communiques issued in Baghdad said Iraqi planes at­tacked the Al-Ahwaz oil field in 
Iran did not say how many of its planes participated in the raids Thursday, but it seldom risks more than two or three aircraft at a time because its fleet is small and old, and it suffers a parts shortage. Iraq has about eight times as many planes as Iran. 
The radio also said Iranian artillerymen shelled economic and military targets in Iraq''s northeastern Sulaymaniyah province, killing or wounding dozens of soldiers and destroy­ing a training garrison and a number of depots and eco­nomic installations. 
A dispatch from the officiatl Islamic Republic News Agency said 12 Iraqi military helicop­ters were damaged by the shelling of a base in the same province. Iraq's news agency denied it. 
western Iran on Thursday with "devastating" results. Tehran radio said Iranian 
Cut-Rate-Liquors 
fighter-bombers inflicted heavy casualties in raids on 
2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 
"military concentrations" in 
Across from Yellow Submarine
Sharhani and Zobeidat, sout­heast Iraq. It described the raids as 
Meister Brau Loose -$4.89
reprisals for Iraqi air attacks 

..<~c
Wednesday on non-military 
~Ss­

targets in which civilians were wounded. Iraq denied bombing 
-$5.29 

civilian areas. 
-750 ml -$12.99 750 ml -$10.99 -750 ml -$5.99
2V2C 

7 Crown -750 ml -$6.99 Milwaukee's Best Loose ­
J&B Scotch -750 ml -$9.99
COPIES 
8Y1 X 11 white 20# auto-fed 


Old Bushmills -750 ml -$9.99
Andre Champagne NOW OPEN!!! 
Bacardi Rum -750 ml -$6.99
(white,pink,and cold duck) Bacardi Rum -1.0 I -$8.99

-2 for $5.00 
Seagram's Golden Spirits-
STORE HOURS: 4 pac -$3.89 
9 AM -10 PM MON-THURS
•across the street from Corktown Liquors 

9 AM -11 PM FRI & SATBartles and James -4 pac -$2.99 
Friday, November 6, 1987

The Observer 
Weinberger replacement named 
Associated Press the turnover leaked out Mon­sign of recurrence of the cancer 
day night but had not been of­she suffered but that she was 
WASHINGTON -President ficially confirmed. ailing from two or three broken Reagan hailed retiring Defense "We are here today to wish vertebrae in her back. Secretary Caspar Weinberger, Godspeed to an old friend, the "She has, for a long time, had a driving force behind a big finest secretary of defense in this great discomfort and I military buildup, as a friend the history of our nation,'' think that it's time that I do a who "never let me down" and Reagan said. bit more to fulfill those obliga­named National Security Ad­A seven-year veteran of tions," the secretary told a viser Frank Carlucci on Reagan's Cabinet and a friend Pentagon news conference. Thursday to succeed him. of two decades, the 70-year-old Weinberger will stay on the 
Completing a major turnover Weinberger resigned because job until Carlucci is confirmed in the national security leader­of concern for the health of his by the Senate. No major oppo­ship, Reagan also promoted wife, Jane. He said there is no sition is Army Lt. Gen. Colin Powell, the No. 2 man on the National "' 
...., U~A'r L-::4-'
Security Council staff, to 
A~""''" ""'!Jr' ~ ~<. •
succeed Carlucci. Powell had 
I'LL ,Y:-·f··
been handpicked by Carlucci •''Jli.~r:_"'tl).t).'l,.o.fl.f··-l •'... ! ~ 
It' \~'' \V 
llonqu•l

as his second in command last ~~
~ Authentic Szechuan and the llunan Taste Fat'ililif's
January to help rebuild the NSC Plus (.'antonese and American r after its reputation was tar­
LUNCHEON 
Ctl.€DRATt SUNIJAY
nished by the Iran-Contra af­
SPECIAL' SPECIAL 
fair. Choice of 10 Combination ('hoil't' ur 1.-. Uinnrrs. Platlers. Includes soup, lnl"lud€"s .,uup. ~h·amrd
Powell is the highest-ranking 
pgg roll, fried rice &: hot ric.•t•. t>J!~ rull and lt>a.
black person on the White ira. Servf'd 12:30pm ­
.apm. Mon.-t~ri.

House staff. Onl~ 84.95 After keeping Weinberger's St•rn·d from 
II ::Uitun -Jpm
83.45

planned resignation secret for 
several weeks, the president 
-OPEN7DAYS­
announced the changes at a 130 UIXIE HIGHWAY SOUTH 
BUSINESS U.S. 31 in ROSELAND
Rose Garden ceremony atten­
<SOUTH BEND I al RANIIAI.I.'S INN 
(2191 272-7376

ded by Pentagon officials, 
members of the NSC staff, the 
Cabinet and Congress. News of 

Take a little Trip with 

Viewpoint
Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 11 

P.O. Box Q 
Alcohol Task Force seeks broad input 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter for two reasons. First, we would like to clear up some of the rumours that have been surfacing in the last few weeks about the Alcohol Task Force. Secondly, we would like to invite the student body to participate in our efforts. 
Last spring, Father Malloy estab­lished the 15-member task force which consists of faculty, student, and admin­istrative representatives. We were given the broad mandate of examining the role alcohol plays on this campus. During the summer, we received much literature on the subject and became familiar with many issues. 
Currently, we are in the fact finding stage. Talking to various interested parties, we are trying to understand the numerous problems and concerns. To this date, we have made no decisions or policy changes! We are still trying to generate as much information as possible. This is where you come in. 
We have set up forums for all the forms as well as in LaFortune during the week on November 8-12. We need your input, ideas, and suggestions. Your input is very important to our ef­forts in evaluating the use and abuse of alcohol on campus and in formulat­ing recommendations that will be given to Father Malloy. Your voice will be heard and considered very seriously. Our report will have a direct impact on student life. This is your opportunity to have a direct impact on our report. Don't let this opportunity pass you by. Watch for schedules posted around campus, and please attend one or more sessions! 
The 1987-88 Task Force on Alcohol 
Members 
Patrick Utz Fr. Thomas King 
Dolores Frese John Poirier 
Stuart McComas Steve Newton 
Wendy Schlereth Diane L. Fitzgibbon 
Joanne Bessler Patrick Cooke 
Roger Jacobs Sean Cullinan 
Patrick Murphy Vince Willis 
Sr. Joris Binder Reginald Ward 
Myriad of ideas strengthens ours 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame is a Catholic University, which should mean that it has a univer­sal free exchange of ideas. Even though the administration restrains our free expression, it amazes me that students are also covering their own eyes from diversity. 
In response to Matt Crowley's article of November 4, I believe that the only way to understand our own beliefs and morals is to understand the beliefs and opinions of others. We are too much alike on this campus, therefore we can not challenge our beliefs. It is too easy to remain consistent with each other. 
Doonesbury 
...ANO7lU HIM lfiE OEWINP IJE77Yl. UNK-UP51A/ITH THE A'fARJ<&75/ ~It/ANT FOUR 
IIJORJ<-5TATION5 P&/l. 
ceLL-&OCI<!'­
Notre Dame must provide classes and allow clubs that help us understand all facets of life. Classes on Buddhism, Atheism and Nazism should be provid­ed. And students with inverted opinions should be able to form a club and ex­
press  their  own  beliefs  without  
hindrance.  
For  example,  a class  in  Atheism  

forces us to question our belief in God. It challenges us to stick up for our own beliefs. Studying Nazism is also bene­ficial. Hitler was evil, but he possessed a charisma that rivaled Jesus Christ. Hitler had the potential to change the world; not many people even try. 
I also think that allowing a homo­sexual club can only help this campus. When I hear or read about them, I get a disgusted feeling. But knowing more about them relieves some of that dis­gust, and it helps me reaffirm my heterosexuality. I don't think we have to worry about a mass sweep of homosexuality throughout the campus. Homosexuals are people who go to this university, how can we morally hide them? 
But Mr. Crowley's main point is that if we know too much about homosexuality, it might destroy this campus' Catholic unity. I believe that questioning homosexual morality is the only way to raise our intelligence of the issue and strengthen our self-respect. 
Matthew Mancini Grace Hall 
Conservatives need to recognize facts 
Dear Editor: 
I feel compelled to respond to Pro­fessor Carberry's letter in the Observer November 3. Although not an avid sup­porter of Common Sense, it hurts to see such epithets as "the latest venture in attitudinizing moral arrogance" hurled at a relatively innocuous publication. Apparently the editorial policy favour­ing tolerance, equality and human rights goes against the grain of a self­professed ''elitist Burkean, Thomist conservative". The glib comparison drawn between an alternative news weekly (The Nation) and Mein Kampf is more than slightly misplaced, if not a deliberate distortion. He would do well to remember that Adolf Hitler, an­other elitist conservative, made the socialists and communists the first of his targets (perhaps that rings a bell?). In turn Professor Carberry's beloved conservatism has spawned such niceties as, to name but one, the murder and torture of over 60,000 impoverished Indians in Guatemala alone. 
If individuals in responsible posi­tions, with easy access to information, remain uninformed in this day and age one can only assume that it is a willfully imposed condition. If the learned pro­fessor wishes to learn of what havoc the conservatism he supports has wrought in the United States and around the world, he need only spend 
H&54Y5 Ht.'s FINISH/3TJ TAL.J<JNG TO 
YOU ''IIJARJ)f31J 70 INMATe." 
"' 

a few afternoons in a nearby library (the Hesburgh Library maybe?). Al­though he might find it more informa­tive to look up publications such as the New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, the Am­nesty International reports rather than The New Republic, USA Today or even that paragon of journalism, The South Bend Tribune. 
May I also suggest that before lam­basting professors Walshe and Frese, it might not hurt to review his own ac­complishments to date. 
Muku Ranjan Department of Biology 

Trudeau's slant not by fault but choice 
Dear Editor: 
I find myself feeling a bit disturbed by Kevin Smant's article in the Nov. 2 issue about Garry Trudeau's "Doones­bury." First of all, I'm not sure which intellectual or non-intellectual circles Mr. Smant has observed to determine his general assumption. I don't recall ever hearing anyone claim that Trudeau satirizes people from all sides of the spectrum or that he plays no favorites. Trudeau has obviously shown no attempt to be impartial. Mr. Smant's lovely examples do not serve to prove any point. The point is moot. Given: Garry Trudeau favors the Democrats and sometimes ruthlessly attacks the Republicans. 
Next, I must ask, so what? Trudeau writes a comic strip. The object of com­edy is to make us laugh, not to be par­ticularly reasonable. Comic writers choose many different ways of amusing. One of these is to exaggerate a detail. James K. Feibleman, in his Aesthetics, states that "Exaggeration ridicules current estimates by pushing the emphases to their apogees ... The feature which the cartoonist singles out for attention are made to stand for the whole face." Creators of comic strips, especially those with political implica­tions, are known for magnifying their opponents' faults while ignoring those of their own group. Of course, Jimmy Carter, Walter Mondale, Gary Hart, and Joe Biden provide satirical fodder. But leave them to Berke Breathed, who creates "Bloom County," or other con­servative writers. Nothing is wrong with one-sided commentary in a comic 
situation.  If  the  Republicans  can't  
laugh  at  themselves,  don't  read  
"Doonesbury."  

No, Mr. Trudeau was never an inde­pendent commentator on American so­ciety. Yes, he probably has been churn­ing out the Democratic party's latest line. The last two presidential elections, however, do not suggest that being a liberal icon means sliding into ir­relevance. Don't forget, Mr. Smant, that the Executive is not the only branch of government. Remember who controls both houses of Congress? We must be careful to stay away from un-
Garry Trudeau 

qualified over-generalizations. Carry on, Garry. We're still listening ... and laughing. 
Rebecca Simpson LeMans Hall 

Euphemisms cannot mask gay realities 
Dear Editor: 
Mr. Storey's recent ballad proposing University recognition of gay student groups is sang to the accompaniment of common nihilistic liberal rhetoric that appeals, upon brief listening, to characteristics in our society which we hold as virtuous and noble. Indulge, if you will, in some elucidation of the arguments presented in that article. 
By defining homosexuality solely in terms of the gender with which homosexuals "fall in love" as opposed to the gender with which they have sex, the author creates a foundation for recognition of gay groups in the virtue of love, which is infinitely more defen­sible than promiscuous sodomy. Addi­tionally, by premising the definition on love, the reader is diverted from a con­frontation of contemplating the physi­cal reality of the sexual activity being defended by such homosexual groups. 
Predictably, the author calls upon be­coming "more tolerant and accepting" as a reason for gay recognition. Tolerance and acceptance are attri­butes that from childhood we are taught to respect. Where on this campus does tolerance end, thus creating the begin­ning of moral and ethical passivism? Bestiality Appreciation Day? The virtue of tolerance is dependent upon understanding the necessary time to stand up and defend valued principles. 
"The panic in straight world" accor­ding to the author is based upon an "ir­rational fear ... possibly rooted in an insecure sexual identity of one's own." You wouldn't want to harbor an irra­tional fear, certainly not here in America-the home of the brave-would you? For that matter, if you don't con­cur that homosexual groups should be recognized then you too must be sexually insecure. Don't let your dorm­mate find out you oppose recognition lest you be branded a homosexual. This sophomoric reverse psychology is transparent to most sophomores and even some freshmen. 
Should homosexual individuals be recognized on campus? Absolutely. As individuals deserving of our compas­sion, care, sympathy, and support during emotional crisis we should treat homosexuals as we would any other stu­dent suffering from a mental ailment. 
Should homosexual groups be recog­nized on campus? Absolutely not! Uni­versity recognition would symbolically justify homosexuality as an acceptable alternative lifestyle, thus condoning sodomy at Notre Dame, in distinct violation of the moral and ethical foundations of this institution. 
Richard J. Shields Off-campus 

Campus Quote 
"When a team believes In Itself and has confidence that It will do well, the winning will take care of Itself." 
Byron Spruell Class of 1988 

Viewpoint
page 12 Friday, November 6, 1987 
Balance on court hurt without Bork 
Attention all liberals! Congratula­tions for achieving your goals! Thanks to your light-headed rhetoric and dubious claims of incompetence per­taining to the defeat ~f Judge Bork's nomination, you have succeeded in driving another nail into the coffin American justice. Retiring Chief Jus­tice Warren Burger, who once vowed he would never step down and give Reagan the chance to "hand the court over to the conservatives," supported the nomination of Bork claiming that 
Peter t;tauae 
from the right 
Bork was one of the most qualified people nominated for the post. It seems that you don't hold the opinion of the man who gave you legalized abortion and no school prayer as having much value. Instead you cry about inconsis­tency, possible overturned rulings, and a Supreme Court teetering on the brink of falling into facism and Pacism. Un­fortunately for the senators con­templating Judge Bork's nomination, your voices were louder than the voices of reason. 
The charge of inconsistency had fol­lowed the proceedings, and for the casual onlooker, for good reason. Before Judge Bork had ever set foot on the witness stand, the organizations of the left, ranging from the AFL-CIO to the Communist Party of America, had made Bork out to be some sort of fanati­cal reactionary demon. However, when Bork arrived on stage, he appeared to be someone who followed strict Con­stitutional construction in a logical manner. He was not just someone who was controlled by ideology and partisan politics, putting him in direct contrast with the senators interrogating him. As President Reagan said at one meeting, "The charges that Hobert Bork is too ideological are themselves ideologi­cally inspired ... " Judge Bork was ac­cused then of bending his views to get the job based on prior statements that he had made dating back to the 1960s. Bork's explanation was reasonable. He simply changed his mind over the en­suing years. All of us tend to change our views as we find fallacies in our own views and truth in other views. Therefore, resurrecting old nails to crucify Bork was not a proper method for denying him confirmation. 
As far as overturned rulings happen­ing as a result of Bork's placement on the Supreme Court, understand that it takes five justices to overturn a ruling, and they had better have good reason. Robert Bork on his own could not over­turn a ruling. He could suggest it and justify it, but to convince four other jus­tices to agree with him is a monumental task to achieve. Also, even though four other justices are conservative does not mean they would all fall into line. As an example, look at the Senate where Republicans vote with Democrats and vice-versa. Therefore, the threat that Justice Bork will overturn any of the civil rights bills or any of the liberal, American Civil Liberties Union pets such as legalized abortion, outlawed school prayer, etc., was unjustifiable unless the rulings were against the Bill of Rights or the rest of the Constitution to begin with. 
For the first time in a long time, a judge had been nominated for the spot of Supreme Court Justice who actually follows the Constitution -not the tides of ideology and partisanism. My dear liberals, please pause from your Bork­bashing and consider this thought. Reagan nominated a strict construc­tionist to provide the crucial swing vote. Robert Bork could have gone both ways. If the liberal view was the con­stitutional view, Bork would have sided with the liberals; if conservative, he would have sided with the conserva­tives. Would you rather that President Reagan nominated a judge whose only redeeming quality was that he was con­servative? Think what that would en­tail! No more legalized abortion, the addition of prayer in public schools, and union busting. If Bork had been nominated, there would have been, "God-forbid," actual interpretation of the Constitution -not just whatever the Left or the Right says it is. After all, isn't that the job of the Supreme Court, to prevent the country from flowing too far to the Left or to the Right? Let us return the once dignified process of nominating a Justice back to the treat­ment it deserves, instead of leaving it to the whims of the media, the Radical Left, the special interest groups, and showcasing senators. The Bork dis­aster should serve as a lesson to us all. President Reagan will now appoint a true conservative to the Supreme Court, which will offset the balance Judge Bork would have maintained. Though a conservative court will be a good change for the country, my poor confused liberals, now try to pass your socialist programs. At least with Jus­tice Bork, you might have had a chance. 
Peter Claude is a sophomore in the Col­lege of Business Administration. 
Religious life still merits respect 
The November 2 issue of The Obser­ver printed a picture of two Notre Dame cheerleaders dressed as nuns, with a caption underneath which read in part "Is anything sacred anymore: Well at least football is." This is not the only media coverage that this act received, as it was also shown nationwide through WGN television out of Chicago. These events have brought to mind several issues which should be of inter­est to those who take seriously their Catholic faith. 
John Raphael 
guest column 
I would like to make clear that this is not· an attack on the two cheer­leaders, nor is it an attack on the media, for I truly believe that the motive of this act was not intentionally malicious, rather, I believe that it is a reflection of the general spirit of irreverance that pervades our social atmosphere. Some, no doubt, will dismiss what I have to say as the rumblings of someone who is living in the past, but it is precisely this attitude that I wish to discuss. 
The first thing I would like to deal with is the religious life. There was a time when the religious life was looked on by all as the highest vocation that a Catholic could have. Today however, there is a much greater emphasis on the universal call to holiness that is ex­tended to all by virtue of their baptism. Is this to say that the religious life is now less important than it was before the council? Well, if one is to take seriously all of the documents of the council and the constant teaching of the church on this subject, without the selective and highly ideologically di­rected reading of concillar documents that is so prevalent today, one can see that the religious life, with its special charisms of chastity, poverty, and obedience provide the~ religious with the greatest opportunity to completely devote himself to God with an un­divided heart. Something which is not to be expected of the person with familial obligations. To a certain degreee the same can be said of lay people who choose the celibate life, but even this life lacks the complete detatchment that the vows of poverty and obedience provides the religious with. As St. Paul says in I Corinthians 7:32,34; "The unmarried man is busy with the Lord's affairs, concerned with pleasing the Lord; but the married man is busy with this world's demands and occupied with pleasing his wife, This means he is divided. The virgin-­indeed, any unmarried woman--is con­cerned with the things of the Lord, in pursuit of holiness in body and spirit. The married woman, on the other hand, has the cares of this world to absorb her and is concerned with pleasing her husband." In addition the Second Vatican Council in its Constitution on the Church, 42; has this to say about the celibate life, which applies espe­cially to religious. As a means of sanctity it ". . .is that precious gift of divine grace given to some by the Fa­ther to devote themselves to God alone more easily with an undivided heart in virginity or celibacy. This perfect con­tinence for love of the kingdom of heaven has always been held in high esteem by the Chur<eh as a sign and stimulus of love, and as a singular source of spiritual fertility in the world." The words of our Dear Lord in Matthew 19: 10-12 also tell us that there are those who are " eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of God." 
These passages I have chosen be­cause they clearly show the sacredness of the religious life, not only in times past, but very much so in our own times. I think that it is very obvious 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The News is repo~ as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
that taking something which is so pre­cious to each of us as individual Cat­holics, to the Church, and to Our Lord Himself, and making a joke of it in front of the public eye is not something that we at the University of Our Lady would want to be a part of. Does not the world heap enough disrespect and ridicule on the Church of Christ and her children? Do we want to be identified with groups such as the highly irreverent homo­sexual group in San Francisco that is characterized by its abuse of the Cath­olic sisters' habit? As stated before, I am sure that this was not the intention of the participants in this incident, but when the world watches television, do we expect it to understand exactly what is going on. Certainly a society which is tolerant of abortion, sexual promis­cuity, sodomy, and many other crimes against the divine law of God will not understand the great beauty and sacredness of the consecrated life. In the words of Christ we are called to be the "light of the world," not the other wav around. We must show the world by our words and example what it is 
.. Kevin Becker ... Mark Pankowski . . ... Chns Bednarski News Editor ... .. Jim Riley Viewpoint Editor... ...... Chris Murphy Sports Editor . . ...... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor... . . ........ Michael Naughton Saint Mary's Editor ... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ... ..... Jim Carroll 


that God wants of each of us. The reli­gious habit is the symbol of one of the greatest vocations in the Church, and it is not fitting that the students of a Catholic school promote the mockery of this important symbol, the wearing of which by religious, is mandated by canon 669 of the New Code of Canon Law. 
This, I believe is the result of Cat­holics allowing the world to influence their religion instead of Catholics in­fluencing the world. This applies as much to Halloween and costume par­ties, as it does to nationally televised football games. Every year there is a great number of drunken revelers parading around campus and South Bend dressed as the religious of the Catholic Church. This is something we must take seriously, for whether we are willing to accept it or not, there are many things that are still sacred and football is not one of them. 
John A. Raphael, Jr. is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager . . . .......... Bnan Murray Advertising Design Manager . . . . . . David Culligan Advertising Manager ............... Melinda Chapleau Production Manager... . . . ....... Melissa Warnke 
Projects Manager...  .  .  .. Mark Mclaughlin  
Systems Manager . . . . . . . . . .......... Shawn Sexton  
Controller... .  . ........ Tracy Schindele  

Graphic Arts Manager... . ..... laura Stanton 
.---------------------------------­
Accent ­
Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 13 


photo courtesy of Dllnlel Corrlglln Performing tonight at 10 p.m. In Theodore's wiD be Trip Shakespeare, a rising young band out of MlnneapoUs. 
thern Minnesota to come to the  ence of three guitars guaran­ would be an Important year for  
Twin Cities and be In a rock  tees loudness, but because the  the group.  
and roll band.)  music Is so good, the volume  

Young band tripping up to the top 
ANN SEIFERT accent writer 
}\ sk the average person .nabout music from Min­neapolis and he'll probably mention Prince. Ask a more musically literate person about music from Minneapolis and she'll probably roll off names of groups like The Replace­ments and Husker Du. But what lies between these two extremes? A veritable barrage of very good rock bands are coming forth these days from the Twin Towns. One of the best and most popular of these "unknowns" Is Trip Shake­speare, playing tonight at Theodore's at I 0:00 pm. 
The four-member group spe­cializes In catchy, danceable pop-tack songs. The songs on 
their only released album, Ap­plehead Man from Gark 
Records, received a good amount of airplay on college stations and their subsequent 
tour of various small clubs o;oarked their popularity. Back 
at home In Minneapolis Trip 
Shakespeare easily draws 
people by the hundreds and 
sells out the clubs. 
ENERGY and charisma abound as lead vocalist Matt Wilson belts out lyrics which are as quirky as the many dif­ferent costumes his band af­fects. Consider these song titles: "Two Wheeler Four Wheeler" (a song about trucks.) "Toolmaster of Brainerd" (the story of a young man who leaves the dairy farms of nor-
And talk about stage pres­encel These three guys and a glrl (drummer Elaine Harris) virtually command the stage to keep audiences spellbound with their deftly textured har­monies. During most of the songs, the three frontmen, Matt Wilson, his brother Dan Wilson on gulta~eyboards and the bass player sing together and 
sound tremendous. The pres-Is only an added attraction. 
It's difficult to think of anyth­lng the band doesn't do well. Last New Years' Eve they were honored as the second most popular local act of the Twin Cities at First Avenue, the most famous club In town. During that show, the band dressed as flowers. the sun and the moon, complete with styrofoam head­dresses. Their tremendous 
reception promised that 1987 

1987 has In fact been good for the band, although no vinyl has been released as yet. That may, however, be coming soon considering the many new songs which have been added to the playllsts In the past few months. While we walt for the album's appearance we can at least get a taste of these new songs (as well as the older 
ones) tonight. 
•

Smoking as a representative sin 
'm d smoker, one of an death. Soon, smokers will be of smoking. I almost believe back. Smoking looks like a whatever they want to do asI endangered species on the required to use segregated them when they tell me It's for lark. but the pr~udlce against long as It doesn't frighten the way to becoming extinct. toilets In the outdoor john. my own good. Caring has to be smoking Is at an all-time high. horses? Should you prefer to Clean-air buffs hate my guts. Lalla Palooza In a pants suit the name of the game, doesn't If you can't stand the heat. stick by the rule book written 
Restaurants now Isolate cuts you off as you're lighting It? What's the fun of being a they say, stay out of the by Christians society? Either smokers In a room by them­Christian If you write off all kitchen; why rush In, until you way, why should you feel en­
up In Bill Knapps' parking lot: selves. "Hey mister, you're not plan­your best friends with your In­know how hot It can get? The titled to be abusive with the At the front door, the maitre average smoker Isn't sure of other guy? All of us are politi­
ning to smoke that thing out terest at heart as Lalla d' asks: "Smoker or non­Paloozas with chips on their his Identity as one who should cal; each of us has an axe or
here? Did you ever think that be smoking until he's some­two to grind; but If all of life Is
smoker?" He's looking for a some of us have asthma?" She shoulders? Marlboro man to push around. stands there, trying to look For the sake of the point I'm where In his mid-twenties. The axe-grinding or a political The cards are stacked against delicate. All her personal leading up to, run this flight-of­least you can say of the tradi­game, where Is the love that me, but I decide not to go frustrations-from a failed mar­fancy up the flagpole. Imagine tional morality Is that It's there gives Notre Dame Its excuse for gentle Into that back room. rlag~. perhaps, or from her me, the chief of smokers, as a warnn'lg. with rules to being? joining the ever-growing army serve as guidelines. that can The students trust us, expect­of ex-smokers. Imagine that I slow down the young and the Ing that we have something to have become an apostle of restless. Kids should be able to tell them. Shouldn't we want to
Father Robert Griffin 
clean living. willing to flght to grow up, protected against help them save their souls, or the death for smokeless air. I themselves, feeling that they're at least keep them from screw­
letters to a lonely God 
start pinching ashtrays out of free not to smoke In public­Ing up early? If our love for public rooms, and posting even if they want to, as a way them gets drowned out be­"What's it to you?" 
"Thank you for not smoking to social fulflllment. cause of the fear and contempt
anger at life for passing her He says primly: "Smoking Is by-have been packaged Into a signs" anyplace where flowers Who, In this convoluted we're busy showing each other­are born to blush unseen. and parable, should you cheer as as we encourage them to
reserved to designated areas." complaint against smokers; waste their sweetness on the the hero? The civil libertarian: smoke or not smoke, or other­
I say: "A quiet table In the otherwise, she might have had desert air. Picture Darby O'Gill Is he the Pled Piper, or Moses wise take chances-why 
corner of the main dining room the courtesy to say "Please?" in Egypt? Is he David against shouldn't they tell us to get
will do." "The Puritan," wrote Macaulay, as an auxiliary crusader, Goliath, trying to free Israel lost. Instead of using them as
He Insists on knowing: "Do "hated bear-baiting. not be­wearing a sandwich board from the yoke of the Philis­pawns In the battles we're 
you Intend to smoke?" The cause It gave pain to the bear, which runs the length of him, tines: petty administrators, flghtlng with each other?
maitre d' Is a man of the world. but because It gave pleasure to with warnings on It from the anti-smoking lobbyists, and the It would be over-personal to
If I indicated to him by a wink the spectator." Today you meet Heart Association. Then Imagine that a great­American Heart and Lung asso­name names as though I had
that the lady I'm with Is an­Puritans down on smoking. not 
other man's wife, he'd unblink­because it hurts them, but be­hearted civil libertarian-a truly ciation, which, he says claims quarreled with colleagues who good man who, unfortunately, an Infallibility like the Pope's? should be working partners. If
ingly accept the bill I slip Into cause It gives pleasure to the his flst. and seat me not far smoker. resorts to the penny-ante rheto­Is he opposed by card-carrying anyone wants to name my 
petty tyrants masquerading as name, let that person not as­
from the plano bar, In a booth I'm not asking for your ric of a story-book ayatollah­angels of light, or Pharisees sume that I've become a cynic
half-hidden by a potted palm. tolerance and sympathy. takes the fleld on behalf of laying on burdens to break the who has given up on the world. 
Discreet adultery, he'd figure, Smokers are being treated like smokers' rights. He's sincere Is a private affair. Smoking Is a lepers In this home of the and Intense In his concern for camel's back? Are they uptight I'm a heavy smoker In whom hanging offense: the public brave, land of the free. the underdog. and he ralls little dummies serving the the habit has become 
against the repressiveness of politics of their puppet­engralned like a second-na­must be protected from the Smokers will continue exhibit­
sight and smell of lit tobacco. Ing grace under pressure, until non-smokers who try to Impose masters, without an original ture. In this column, smoking concern of their own? has stood as a symbol for
I ask: "Isn't discrimination non-smokers have decided on their morality on members of I didn't start this exercise so many things very personal In
contrary to the Civil Rights a flnal solution, like herding all society who, he claims, were that I could resolve It as the nature. Consequently, someone
Act?" He smiles at the token the misfits who like nicotine born to smoke. He says he's whimpering. The new Jim Crow onto a deserted Island, which trying to break the shackles of referee. If I had, I would have will be sure to ask: "After all 
loaded the dice In favor of the this, will you continue to
laws are alive and well and can be towed out to sea, and hate and pr~udlce that keep thousands of timid smokers house. But how can you say smoke?" As a self-serving cove­
breaking smokers' hearts sunk. Then the world will be from leaving their hiding whether the conservatives are nant I'm making with myself, 1
across America. He seats me In free to die from the serious more caring. or the liberals are will try, beginning today, to
an Isolation chamber at the pollution falling out of mush­places, to smoke openly, as more caring. and why should give up the weed. This Is not a
rear of the restaurant. By the room clouds, or the smog nature Intended that they you have to? Any argument grandstand play, since I've
dim bulb overhead, I can see caused by motor cars taking should do. To his credit, he 
the bare utility pipes and ex­people to Disneyland. expQses himself to a great deal that maintains Itself by name­needed to give up smoking for of personal suffering. because calling Is an argument that has a long time. Now, If I can offer
posed wiring running up the A defense of smoking Is he has the endurance of a run out of steam. Whether It up as an act of love for all of
wall near the service entrance, stupid stuff. Smoking Is the 
where cases of Perrier are kept only unforgiveable sin, and I'm prophet, willing to go down In we're talking about smoking In us who are In pain. I can e11Joy Itself, or as the stand-In vice peace of mind. Although I
stacked. The dinnerware on an guilty of lt. and may continue flames as a freedom fighter. 
coverlng a multitude of sins, I could not bless the darkness 
uncleared table Is chipped. to be guilty of It until I'm led Of course, the anti-smokers don't see how one side can say which has come down on us
Prisoners In the Gulag ar­off choking and wheezing to show a deep concern. The chipelago are brought to the cancer ward. When nice smokers' world Is a dangerous to the other: "All the love Is on like the night, still, with the 
place. Once you've stepped my side." Should consenting help of God's grace, maybe Ibrighter rooms than this when people with obnoxious man­adults be allowed to do
they are being starved to ners lecture me on the effects foot In It there's no stepping have lighted a small candle. 
·­
I 
-i 
I I I 
I I I I 
-. I I I 
J 
Accent
page 14 Friday, November 6, 1987 

-· 
... 
... 
1Must-see movies 
• 
CRIMES OF THE Hr:A.RT FrVSat Engineering Auditorium 7, 9: 15, and II:.30 p.m. 
Diane Keaton, Sissy Spacek, and Jessica Lange play sisters in ~his adaption of Beth Henley's Pulitzer Prize winning smash Broadway play. Bound together by their mother's suicide, the sisters -a failed actress, a lonely spinster, and a seemingly successful matron -return to their southern hometown after the matron shoots her husband. 
TH~ COLOR OF MON~Y Fri Annenberg Auditorium 7:.30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Paul Newman reprises his role as Fast Eddie Felson in this explo­sive sequel to "The Hustler." It's 25 years later, and Eddie has long since hung up his pool cue, until co-star Tom Cruise reawakens Eddie's hustling instlcts. Director Martin Scorsese's gritty and realistic drama immerses the audience in a corrupt and greedy world where winning Is all that matters. 
THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME Mon Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. 
This bizarre allegory about nature and culture follows the career of a retired explorer who, no longer finding excitement in the hunting of animals, retires to a desterted island and lures human prey into his sights. 
THE HUSTLER Mon Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
Paul Newman gives a terrific character portrayal of hustling pool shark Fast Eddie Felson, who takes on the legendary pool hustler Minnesota Fats (Jackie Gleason). In his desperation to win, Eddie sacrifices everyone and everything he loves, until he realizes, almost too late, that the price is too high. 
THE ADVENTURES OF BUCKAROO BANZAI Tues Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
A wacky, postmodern science fiction film which encompasses enough plot to fill ten fllms. Peter Weller stars as a physicisV neurosurgeoJ'lltock singer/cult hero who is plunged into heart­stopping adventure when he breaks into the eighth dimension. John Lithgow is brilliant as the mad scientist who is in contact with aliens trying to take over the earth from a factory In New Jers6¥' 
SURRENDER Ready Ill Cinema 4:30, 7:10, and 9:.30 p.m. 
A contemporary comedy teaming Oscar winners Sally Field an<l 
Michael caine as Daisy Morgan, an unfulfllled artist and Sean Stein, a hugely successful hack mystery writer. Steve Guttenberg plays Daisy's sometimes boyfriend, Marty caesar, an attorney who loves her but can't commit to marriage. 
1 ChitChat • 
•

Local Theater Guide 
0000000000000000000 

FORUM CINEMAS 
North Village Mall 277-1522 

"THE PRINCESS BRIDE" "LIKE FATHER. LIKE SON" "NO MAN'S LAND" 


SCOTTSDALE CINAEMAS 
115.3 Scottsdale Mall 291-458.3 

"MADE IN HMVEN" "THE HIDDEN" "PRINCE OF DARKNESS" 

100 CENTER CINEMA 
100 Center St. 259-0414 

"THE UNTOUCHABLES" "DIRTY DANCINO" 
UNIVERSITY PARK fAST 
6424 Grape Rd 277-7.3.36 
"Dr:A.TH WISH IV" "LESS THAN ZERO" "PRINCE OF DARKNESS" "MADE IN HMVEN" "NO MAN'S LAND" "PERSOI"'AL SERVICES" 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
University Park Mall 277-0441 
"fATAL BMUTY" "THE RUSSKIES" "HELLO AQAJI'I" The rock band Whitesnake will perform tonight in the JACC. The show begins at 8 

p.m. and all tickets cost $15. 
At 8:15p.m. this evening the Notre Dame Glee Club will give their fall concert in Washington Hall. Tickets are limited and may be pur­chased at the Washington Hall box office. 
The NO-Boston College game is scheduled to begin at noon this Saturday in the Rockne Memorial Stadium. 
The SUB is running a lip­sync contest. Pre-lim rounds will take place Saturday in Stepan Center at 7 p.m. Sign-ups for the competition are in the SUB office in LaFortune. 
Local 

On Sunday at 7:.30 p.m. the South Bend Symphony Or­chestra will be lead by guest conductor Gary Sheldon at the Grace United Methodist Church. The program will include Stravinsky's "Dum­barton Oaks," "Serenade No. 
1" by Brahms, and "Con­certo for Trombone" by Aibrechtsberger with soloist Mark Fisher. 
Continuing at the Northern 
Indiana Historical Society is 
the exhibit "Under the 

Golden Dome: A Century of 
Notre Dame Athletic Tradi­
tion," a historical presenta­
tion of Irish varsity sports. 
From now until Nov. 22 the Northern Indiana Artists-St. Joeseph Valley Watercolor Society Exhibition will be at the South Bend Art Center's Warner Gallery, located in the Century Center. 
Michael Caine and Sally Aeld star In "Surrender." Caine is a successful writer leery of involvements with women because of his disastrous romantic history. 
ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
accent writer 

non't miss tonight's ,Upresentation of the ABC news program "Nightllne: A National Town Meeting on Wall Street and the Economy." The three hour special starting at 11:.30 p.m. will be co-hosted by by series regular Ted Koppel and his special guests, the Muppets. A panel of financial experts have been assembled in an attempt to demystify the complex economic situation. Topics will Include the budget and trade deficits, the state of the stock market, and "scare 
journalism." A radio simulcast 
of the program will allow the 
entire country to phone in 

questions via a toll-free num­
ber... A special prime-time 
airing of Pee-Wee Herman's 
Playhouse has been scheduled 
by CBS for Nov. 11. The one­
hour special will consist of two 
of Pee-Wee's favorite Saturday 
morning episodes.... Little 
Richard and Eddie Murphy are 
collaborating on an as-yet­

untitled duet. ... Matt f'rewer, 
star of the late "Max 
SACRED HEART SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 
5 p.m. (Saturday Vigil) 

Fr. John Lahey, Celebrant 9 a.m. Fr. Michael Heppen 10:.30 a.m. Bishop John 
D'Arcy 

12:15 p.m. Fr. Daniel Jenky 7:15p.m. Vespers-Lady Chapel 
WEEKDAY MAtN CHURCH SCHEDULE 
11:.30 a.m. Monday thr Friday 5:15p.m. Monday thr 
SAINT MARY'S SUNDAY MASS SCHEDULE 

10:.30 a.m. Church of Loretto 4:.30 p.m. LeMans Chapel 7 p.m. Holy Cross Chapel 10 p.m. Regina Chapel 5 p.m. Vespers-Church of Loretto 
of the "St. Elsewhere" cast as Dr. Elliott Axelrod's (Stephen Furst) cousin, Pee-Wee the used car salesman.... Con­trary to reports that either Robert Redford or Barbra Streisand would direct "The Good Mother," an adaptation of Sue Miller's 1986 best-seller, the project has been optioned by Leonard (Star Treks Ill and IV") Nlmoy. . . . CBS News has less than a month before they're scheduled to premiere their re-vamped "The Morning Program" and they still haven't settled on a co-anchor for Kathleen Sullivan.... Produc­tion has begun on "Elvis and Me," a four-hour ABC-TV movie adapted from Prlcllla Presley's 
best-seller of the same name. 
Pricilla will be played by Susan 
Walters, best known for her her 
work on the ABC soap, "Lov­
ing." . . . Sheena Easton has 
been cast to wed Don 

Johnson's cop character Sonny 
Crockett later this season In a 
four part episode of "Miami 
Vice." Easton was.hired to 

replace Lorraine ("Someone to 
Watch Over Me") Bracco whose 
prior commlttments forced her 
to turn down the role. 

TOWN AND COUNTRY 
2.340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
"SUSPECT" "BABY BOOM" "fATAL ATTRACTION" 
RMDY Ill CINEMAS 
420 E. Main St. Niles, Michigan 68.3-1112 
"NO MAN'S LAND" "HELLRAISER" "SURRENDER" "THE UNTOUCHABLES" "THE MONSTER SQUAD" 
Headroom" TV series has signed on as a regular member Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 15 
Sports Briefs 
The Rugby Club will conclude its fall season Off-campus hockey is looking for players. The varsity men's crew team will practice today against Boston College. The first game will Anyone interested should sign up at the NVA office today at 4:45p.m. -The Observer begin at 3 p.m. behind Stepan Center. -The Observer or call Chris Brown at 272-8689. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 19 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
Wordproceoolng-Typing 272-6827 
Typing 237-18411 or 277-1131 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n­7406 
MARISSA'S TYPING 277·2724 NIGHT; 277·1051 DAY. 
Soon the Prophecies of the Invasion of Israel and the Great Earthquake will be fulfilled (ct. Ezeklel38, Daniel12). Form­Ing a community, oeH·oulllcient In food and energy, to survive, God Willing, the coming destruction. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend. Indiana 46634· 4475 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST -Gold Crooo and Chain Sentimental Value --Please call Doug 2327 
Lost ·dark blue backpack either In Fitzpatrick or LaFortune. Contains book on Harry Truman and an address book. Reward if found. Contact Evan at x5899 during day 
.............................................. 
I found a swatch wf two gold rings on South Quad. II they are yours, call me at 3722. 
......................................................... 
LOST: On October 29 I loot a watch with a black leather strap and a gold lace somewhere between Paoquerllla East and Cartier Field. II you have found It, PLEASE call Elizabeth at 4281. 
FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS--CALL £271-Q575 AND ASK FOR AMY TO IDENTIFY 
Loot Loot Loot Lost One Georgetown 87 Claoa Ring, USC Weekend H found call 417 4 Reward Reward Reward Reward 
Loat: TIME WALKMAN. Please retum to 313 Howard or the Rock. 
Loot & Found: When I got off Cardinal Buo 434 returning from the U2 co concert at Indy Nov. 1 , I accidentally took some­one's CS&CO jean jacket Instead of my Levi's tean jacket. Mine has a name tag (M.C.Kralt) In aide, the other doesn't. II anyone knows the whereabouts of my jacket and wants theirs back, please call me at 1891 or atop by 104 Fisher Hall. 
FORRENT 
I 

Lease thil 2BR apartment now lor apnng semester and move In anytime. $ 32!>tno. Includes utllltleo. Call 232-9239. 
Now showing lor ~Yt-e8-~Yt-e9 leaaa. 6BR, 2 both houoe on buollne. Call 232­9239. 
WANTED 
PAINTER WANTED: NEAT PAINTER WANTED TO PAINT CLOSETS, ETC. IN MY HOME. YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR OWN HOURS. I HAVE APPROX. 40e HOURS OF WORK. PAYING $4.00HR. CALL 282-11136, AFTER 6:30 PM. 
HELP WANTED Retail Saleo Peraon ~ lor local record store. Prevtoua retail experience preferred. 25 hour per -k position. Bring re1ume to: Tracks 1831 E. Edison. NO phone calta, pleaoe. 
WANTEDII Two grad atudenta need olx GA'I lor Alabama game--not ,_..rily together. Pleaoe cll1283-3090 Wyou can help. Our out-of-town relaUveo are willing 
to PAYI 
I UGENTLY NEED A AIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL JAMES, 3133 
FOR SALE 
For Sate ·2 Untied Alrtlnee round·trtp tlcUie to anywhe.-In the continental 
U.S. $200 M or baat offer. Cell Trace Ill 277-1773. 
Zenith owners: Microsoft Word 3.0, Microsoft Windows, GW-BASIC and EMS Memory Upgrade kit, Including all manuals and warranties, all new and un­opened. $150 the lot. Call Gerry x.7125 before 5pm. 
airline tix to MIAMI FL from Ohare onaway 11124 $100 end rlde back tom 2016 
HEY SKI BUMSI SALOMAN SX70 BOOTS FOR SALE MEN'S SIZE 8 112 CALL CHRIS 272-8889 
NEC MultiSpeed Laptop Computer 100% IBM Compatable : Fully portable; Includes 5 hour battery 740K : Monitor and two 720k drives In­cluded : 1200 baud modem extra New $2,200...Aaklng 1 ,800 Call Dan at 1456 
TICKETS 
NEED 1 GA FOR BC CALL SHAWN AT 2235 
*********************************
................................. 
I really, really, really need 1 Alabama ticket. Student or GA will do. Call John at 283­
2445. 

••*••••••*** ******* ****** *.*••••• ********************************* 
BOSTON COLLEGE GA'a 
GIMME, GIMME, GIMME 
B1g, Big cash offered lor BC GA's I'm 
holding your family hostAge 
Please call Chris 

NEED ALABAMA GA TIX. PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL JOE 287-4561 alter 6pm. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEM. WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
I NEED GAa FOR All HOME GAMES.272-e30e 
NEED 5 GENERAL ADMISSION TICK­ETS TO ALABAMA va. NOTRE DAME GAME. WILL PAY TOP $$S. CALL COLLECT (814) 535-84110 BEFORE 5 OR (814) 288-4484 AFTER 5 PM. 
NEED 2 BC TICKETS. CALL KRIS X2800. 
NEED BOSTON COLL. GA TIXI Will pay big bucks. Call Joe alter 6pm at 287-4561 
HELP HELP HELP HELP NEED MANY BC TX STUD AND GA CALL TONY 2067 
NEED BC TIX. CALL 272-1282. $$$$$. 
Need 4 Boston C.-NO tix. GA or Std. Pairs preferred. Good bucks. Call 233­2651. 
BIG BUCKS FOR BAMA STUDS! Call John 271-0939 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 B.C. G.A.a call £1852, ask lor Bryan. Will pay $$$. 
I NEED ABC STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR A MEMBER OF TED KENNEDY'S STAFF CALL STEVE X1654 
BC student or GA ticket needed, call Dave x1589 
WANTED: 8 ND va ALABAMA TICK· ETS, TOP DOLLAR PAID. CALL BOB AT 2113-5821 FROM 1-1 Pll. 
I need 3 BAMA tickets! Will pay big bucks. Aatrella 271-11438 
...,............................................................ I need 2 BC ticketal Student or GA. Please call Aetrella 271-8438 
I NEED 2 'BAMA TIXI $$$NO OPTION. CALL TED ~7-5541 
NEED ALABAMA TIX BAD X3137 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 BC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SHANNON x21i19. 
I NEED 'BAMA STUD TIX. CALL DOC 3347AI 
HELPIII I NEED B.C. TIXS STUD. OR GA WILL DO CALL 1883 
BC & ALABMAIIII NEED STUD TIX FOR BOTH GAMES. FRIENDS MUST SEE NO PLAY FOR FIRST TIMEt CALL JOHN AT 3451 
NEED 6 BAMA GA'a. CALL 4199. $$$$$ 
Desperately need 2 BC GA'a Kevin X2343 
South Bend native would like parents to see HOMEGROWN HERO A.Johnson play. I need 2 or 4 GA'a lor B.C. II you can help, call Craig at 234-7018. 
HELP! NEED 1 BAMA GA. PLEASE CALL KAREN £4875. 
I have B.C. G.A.'al 50 yardersl Will trade ONLY lor GOOD 'BAMA G.A.'S. CALL Rob 1106 NOWII 
BAMA TIXS Can guarantee $30 min Call Paul1424 
I DESPERATELY NEED 2 BAMA GA. WILL SPEND BIG $$$. CALL JOHN 1076. 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO BC STUD TIX OR GA'S. CALL TODD AT 2937. 
I NEED 3 GA'S FOR BC. CALL 284-5626 OR 272-1988 
NEED B.C. STUDENT AND G.A. TIX I PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 2484. 
NEED BC TIX --GA OR STUD. GREG x3070 
Need 4 GAs lor Alabama lor my brother, his wile and 2 children. Willing to pay a reasonable amount over cost. 284-5666 
I need Alabama GA'a and stud tlx. x1118 Ken. 
NEED 4 BC GA's MATT 287-9770 
I NEED ONE BC GA FOR DOMER DAD I PLEASE CALL MAURINE AT 2604 
NEED BAMA GA'S BAD$$$ $$$CALL JIM 283-3669 $ 
•••••••••••••••••••••••oo•••oo•• I NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S PHONE STEVE AT 28~6706 
WANTED: 2,4 or 6 BC G.A.'s Big Money. Call Frank X2161 
Friend up from Indy. I need one BC ticket Call Char X4084. 
I HAVE 12 BAMA GA TICKETS FOR SALE. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE CALL 291-7649 
B.C. GA'a FOR SALE 282·21177 

NEED 2 ALABAMA GA'S.277·7!182 
I will trade a BAMA stud lor a BC stud I will buy 2 BC GAs. Please call Brlan at x1000 
TRADE 1 B.C. G.A. lor 1 BAMA G.A. Call LOAI---2516 
•••••••• Need Alabama GA'a or Stud Call John at 2236 
Need 2 BC GA'S Call Erln 2732 

HELPI TERRORISTS holding my family hostage lor 1 BAMA STUD TIK PLEASE CALL MIKE 3198 
BAMAI Need 4 Alabema GA or student ticket&. Call JR at 283-1538. 
IIC: I need one student ticket lor the BC game. Call Kendra at 283-3484. 
Help Pleaselll I need 3 or 4 B.C. Tlxll Will pay CASHI Call1793todaylll 
PLEASE ... My lathar and sister are com­Ing and we have no tickets lor B.C. or Alabama. II you got em call Mark at 232­9112. 
NEED 1 BC GA FOR DAD JOE 2368 
WANTED 2 GA's lor the BC or Alabama Game call Doug at 1823 
NEED 2 ALABAMA TIX NOT MY$$, GET IT? CALL PETE 233-9660 
Don Pardo, What do we have behind DOOR £1? Well, Monte, we have 2 B.C. G.A.'a Want to trade them for 2 'Bema G.A.'o L&r.. Make a Deal -Tom x3260 
Sell me your BC tixl (312)593-7900 x2112 
Helpl Helpl Helpl I need 4 Bama tickets bodlyl Student or GA. Call Soctt at 3217 or 1962. 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP -THE DREAM STARTS WITH MOM AND DAD GETTING 2 BAMA GA'S. CALL JB AT 4881 
ANYBODY WANT A BAMA STUDENT TICKET??? 
BEST MONETARY OFFER 
CALL ANN £4071 

HELPII I NEED 1 BC STUD. TIC. CALL MARK 288-3421. 
need 3 Alabama GA'a ...Piease call Carol at 271-0868 
NEED ALABAMA TIX need 2 GA'a and 1 Student will TRADE B.C. Student call CHARLIE 271-0522 
Need BC Student Tlxs I Diane 413214128 
PINK FLOYD TIX Nov. 12, Indy Hoosier­dome Call Tom £1062 
Need 1-2 tickets to the Alabama game. Call Dave X1588 
PLEASE HELP MEl I need 3 BC tickets. Please call Mike at 4259. Thanxl 
PLEASE HELPI I need 2 BC GAs. $$1 Call Ellen x3950. 
I have your BAMA ticket II you have a BC lor me Give me a ring at 4084 
2 ALABAMA GA TIX FOR SALE. MARK (404) 231·1240 (0); (404) 921-31211 (H). 
NEED 2 BC GA'S? CALL CHRIS AT 17110 
Need 4 Alabama Tlx RICH x1148 
NEED 2 OR 4 ALABAMA TICKETS (GA). Will pay very well. Willing to trade two SA• for ume game. Cell Richerd et 272-5582. 
NEED BAMA TIX-call Mike 1699 
PERSONALS 
WAKE UPI 
BELL YGRAMS I 255-3355 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DO YOU HAVE PENN STATE GA'S??? IF YOU HAVE THEM, MY PARENTS WILL BUY THEMI WILL PAY $$$1 CALL SUE AT X4238 
.......,.................................. 
BORIN HALL'S 99th ANNUAL TALENT SHOW 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th AT 8:30PM ON THE FRONT STEPS OF BORIN COLLEGE 
.......................-.................. 
Dr. Whoopla has come to NDI Gettln' a little hot, want to be sale? Well, call Dr. Whoopla for quick delivery of needed protection. Call 2921 or 4644. Think sale sex. 
remember the suburbs 
HELP-Rich brother coming to see Ala­bama game-He'll pay BIG MONEY lor GA or atu.tlcket-Pieaaa sell him your ex­tra one-call Katy 271-0924 
1 need a rlde to Kanaaa City, MO lor Thanksgiving and will share expenses. Please call Theresa-2738. 
Romano, We could not flnd a major for your birthday so we got this ad Instead HAPPY BIRTHDAYIIIII T Weg and Book­em DanO 
................................................................ 
SENIOR I JUNIOR CLASS MASS ­SUNDAY, 11:30AM -DILLON HALL 
JUNIOR I SENIOR CLASS MASS SUNDAY 11 :30AM -DILLON HALL 
8'ri';:,g·y;;;;;..;;;;;;;y·k;''41ii""Sj;;~j~;;j:··j:;;, 
accepting all beiB on Filher Hall In thia 
weeks tou to Stanford. Since I'm • nloe 
guy, I'll give 12.5 points. PUT UP OR 
SHUT UPIII 
································································ 
Some say that body odor Ia the window to the soul -but that's not Important oow. What Ia Important Ia that I need 4 (four) tickets to the Bama game. Student or GA. Will pay. Call Socii at 3217 or 1962. 
RAFAEL CARREIRA-Happy B-Day Nov. 8 Love, M. 
Mery••• I'll walk straight linea for you anytime! Love ya, Steve 
KATHY NEE-
WMI'a • •-tglrlllke you doing Ill 
N.D.? Why not come South whe,.tt•a 
werm -mlu you too much. Thana for 
the but yMr eo fllr... HAPPY AN­
NIVERSARY. 
Love end XXOOXX, 
BenJamin 
P.S. -Have • Happy Bundey, Jel. lybMn? 
I would like to thank Father "Monk" Mal­loy, Lou Holtz, the Football Stall, my Team Members, Alumni Hall, my Fellow Students, and the whole Notre Dame Family for all that you have done for my family and mysen through our time of need. Thank You I Love You All Pernell Taylor 
JIM IS COMING: tonight and next weekend He's just a lawnmower, You can tell him by the way he walks. BE PREPARED 
Jen, Boss times tonight! Stay away from the rally master.. -T.D. 
*"*** BIF **** 
My third wish I need someone special to keep me warm after a// that lcecream you're going to feed me. Therefore, find my secret admirer and please let him know. 
P.S. I change my mind -1 only want to 
cuddle with you. Hope you win next Ume/11 
I need a ticket for 'bama-elther stud or GA. Call 284-5272 
HALLELUJAH 
ARE YOU LONGING FOR COM­PANIONSHIP? well come to the Regina Hall Mixer Fri. 8-11 pm Regina Lounge 6 tlw$5 or $1 each proceeds to United Way AND you may never be lonely agalnllll 
Thank you, St. Jude 
MELISSA S. WHY HAVE THINGS TURNED ICE COLD? HAVE YOU BEEN PUCKING AROUND WITH LANCE? 
•...•.•.....•................:r.............•..........••.•.•.•. 
I'M SORRY FOR HAVING SCARED YOU AT THE LIBRARY THE OTHER DAY, BUT IT WAS KIND OF FUNNY. YOU SHOULD BE MORE CAREFUL WHEN YOU ARE IN SUCH A SCARY PLACE. LET'S GO SEE "MURDER IN THE LIBRARYII" THE SHELF MON­STER 
SUSAN YOU ARE AWESOME Ill 
TRACY KRAUSER WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S From our fllvorlte Southern city to aunny South Bend You, T..cy, helped meke Weahlngton so epeclel Love, your fllvorlte Democ..t (·the only one you knowl) 
THE BRADY BUNCH FILM FESTIVAL Tonight's the night 234-7748 
Carol Hutton, ... you're such a strange girl the way you look like you do you're such a strange girl I want to be with you ... -Mozart 
ATTENTIONII Four friends are coming up from the U. of Alabama to watch their team get alaughteredll Need lour tickets or my a­·la grassll Call Socii at 3217 or 1962. 
Melle-While you're singing tonight your tux will be screaming 
KARL SCHUDT, I WANT YOU TO WANT ME TOO. ????? 
SUPPORT WATER SPORTS: DATE A SWIMIIERI (AND HER ROOMMATE!) 
HOW TO MAKE INSTA·PUKE 
1. Take one Cerrte 2. Add one ounce of any elcohol 3. Wilt 30 1800ndo 4. Clur the blllhroom INSTA­PUKEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
HEY BOY -Good Plan, but bring 2 nails and • hammer. K and K. 
WHIP MEl BEAT MEl MAKE ME BLEED! 3RD PLATOON WAS BORN TO LEAD! YO BABY YO BABY YO BABY VOl (What lo a rag-bog hlpple?)-11'1 PROUDEST Cadet 
Top 5 Reuona Why She Dkln1 w­Monogrammed Sweaters as a Child : 5: She thought It was all a cruel joke. 4: Guys thought aha was playing herd to get. 3: She could have been left perma­nently as a highway olgn. 2: The Nuns put her with the • herd to teach • kldo. 1 : Actually, ohe hed to, and It was always WAY WRONG II Data complied by the guy who wants to be • 0 • with herlll Bye Pall 
Happy Blrlhday PJ Will you marry me? Love Scoop (and the Flamer) 
Can you help Dick, The Jlmmer, and O'Myra with formal datee? They're the Morrloaay Studs. --from the guy who hao no fun. Hal 
Hey Dugle, that leh-ooeo ... hey Dugle, that lah-ooaeo ... hey Dugle, that lagh­osea... hey Dugle, that luh-oozeo. HEY DUGIE, THAT LUHOOZESII Now c'mon you geezers. be truthful. THAT doeo fi­nally sound like Sonny. Coop 
BOLSHOIBOLSHOtBOLSH~ 
The.-'1 a BOLSHOI concert et the Caberwt Mlllro In Chicago on Nov. 12. You won't went to mtu II, end you'll went to take me elong. PIMaa cell Klllh Ill 2823. I don't went to hltve to welkl 
TIM MALONE Wishing you a very happy birthday! Klmba 
BCSA T -minus 7 weeks and counting un­til BCEA. I love youl Chip 
Sara, the first formal Ia Frldey the 13th. We'll try to avoid "rentals" and we'll try to "keep our clothes on". I just want to know, "Did she do It for love, did aha do It lor money..." The tradition lives on ...We mlaa youl the Dungeon Rata. 
HELPI My beat friend lo coming In for the B.C. game and she needs a rlde home. II anyone Ia heading bock to the Md..O.C area and has room lor an extra rider, pteaoe call Stell at 3817 
To the sweet football player who brought shrimp to the gl~a of 8th floor PE­THANKSI PS-Dean Brown for PRESI­DENT! 
•... THERE'S A LITTLE GAME WE LIKE TO PLAY BACK ON EARTH; WE CALL IT FIZBIN." •• IT'S TEAM FIZBIN VS. AIR-BISCUITS IN THE FALL-CLASSIC OF ULTIMATE, SUNDAY AT 4:30 ON STEPAN NORTH"• 
HEY FISHER-TELL £12 WITH THE FRANK BURNS ARM NOT TO BOT· HER SHOWING UP ON SUNDAY OR HE'LL END UP ON HIS IIACK UKE THE REST OF YOUR TEAM. -STUDS, INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPS. 
GIT THAT BIT OUTA BED ITS HER 21ST BIRTHDAY SHE SHOULD BE DRINKING INSTEAD! HAPPY B-DAY KIMBO FROM YOUR FRIENDS WHO KNOW YOU'RE MORE THAN JUST A WATER CHICKLETI 
CHES: Have a happy 18th Birthday Me end the Wile 
JANET WESTENBERGER: Why are you reading this? You should be doing marketing! Have a great day! 
--Matt 
To the gl~a or tha Paoquerllleo who think they are Secutlty: Wwe are the peepers, how come you have the blnoculara? signed -the guys who prance around In their underwear. 
Nancy-w You weren1 ciBOI olown. And you're not a -.agar enymore. And you·,. STILL not legal. But you're e cool chick anyway• So you've got that goln' for ye, which le nloa. Enjoy your eobrtety tonight. Or leek !haNoi. Love, Mindy, Megan, Mary, Mellau, Mary Anne, Me:y Bridget, Petti, and Anne 
Dave from 3rd ftoor Alumni (111M WORKING MAN). I hed e grM1 Ume doing the ROCK LOBSTER wtth you Ill the H*-n party Friday. Let'l get to­gather eoon and u.tan to e VILLAGE PEOPLE ALBUM! £4231 "SANTABEAR' 

--~--~------­
Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 16 The Observer 
.­
Women's lnterhall football heads into semifinals 
By JEFF HEILERT Sports Writer 
Some womens' dorms already are looking ahead to next year's Interhall football season, but for four teams, the "real" season has just begun. 
It's semifinal time. 
Three of last year's semi­finalists return, including three-time defending cham­pion Farley. 
The lone newcomer to this year's playoff scene is Pasquerilla West, which won its last seven in a row to cap­ture the regular-season title. 
Breen-Phillips vs. Lyons 
1 p.m., Stepan Fields. 
BP finished the season at 7-1, with its lone loss coming against PW in six overtimes. 

Offensively, BP led the league with 146 points on the season, averaging more than 18 per game. 
Quarterback Teresa Coombs has played a large role in the success. 
''Teresa began the season with little experience,'' said BP coach Dan DeBoer. "She's worked hard all year, and turned into a fine quarter­back." 
Helping Coombs offensively will be tailback Margaret Johnson and wide receiver Ann Curoe. 
Defensively, look for Karen Marsh at strong safety and the two mainstays on the defensive line, Teresa McFadden and Maggie Citarello, to lead the BP BLitz. Lyons ended the season at 6-2, with losses against BP and PW. 
Lyons' strength is its defen­sive, especially the secondary. Led by cornerbacks Carrie Martinez and Beth Rosa, the defense landed 10 interceptions on the season. 
"At any given time, seven of the eight defensive players have two or more years of ex­perience," said coach Matt Roy. "They have allowed only 30 points all year, a league low." 
Offensively, Lyons is led by tailback Robin McHugh, and has been consistently able to move the ball. 
"Our strength offensively is 
Fisher, Sarin escapE3 tiebreaker 
By ROB PIERCE Sports Writer 
The wait is over. The invita­
tions have been sent, and the 
party is just beginning. 
Only one problem stood in the 
way of the "second season" of 
men's interhall soccer -the 
three-way tie in the North 
American Division between 
Fisher, Flanner and Sorin. 
Fisher and Sorin met Wednes­
day to settle that situation, with 
the winner moving on to face 
Flanner to determine playoff 
pairings and the loser dropping 
out of postseason action. 
Fisher and Sorin are no 
strangers to crucial games ­
they battled on the last day of 
the regular season to decide the 
playoff situation. Fisher 
prevailed, 1-0, and as a result 
forced the logjam atop the divi­
sion. And the rematch was no 
different, as they again proved 
to be the better team, 2-0. 
Sorin controlled the first half 
but, frustrated by the outstand­
ing play of Fisher goalie Jim 
Turecek, could not find the net. 
Instead, Fisher captain Tom 
Cramer managed a tally to put 
his team ahead 1-0 at halftime. 

Mark Derwert scored an in­surance goal that sealed the victory and locked up a playoff berth. 
Fisher then ousted Flanner with a 2-1 victory in a penalty­kick -shootout. 
Cramer was again the catalyst as he opened the scoring midway through the second half. But there was little time for for celebration as Flanner stormed back on a goal by Ted Smith less than two minutes later. It stayed that way through two overtime pe­riods and the first round of the shootout. Then, on the first sudden-death kick, Flanner missed wide and Mark Moran booted home the game-winner for Fisher. 
The win gives Fisher the fourth seed in the playoffs and a first-round match against fifth-seeded Morrissey A, while Flanner must settle for the seventh seed and a date with the defending champion and second-seeded Off-Campus Hoobers. Those games will be played this Sunday at Stepan Field at 1 p.m. to determine who will advance to the second round and who will drop into the loser's bracket of the double-elimination format. 
The actual playoffs began Wednesday. Sixth-seeded Zahm A upset third-seeded defenitely our running game," said Roy. "But the key to Robin's success is tight end Judy Grace. She catches every­thing we throw at her." 
In their regular season matchup, BP grabbed a 14-12 victory. 
Farley vs. Pasquerilla West 
2:15p.m., Stepan Fields. 
Farley finished the season tied for third with Lyons with a 6-2 record. Losses came against BP and Lyons. Offen­sively, Farley is led by sopho­more quarterback Carol Elliot. 
Other offensive weapons are wide receivers Kara England and Colleen McGillus. Both have teamed up with Elliot for numerous touchdown passes. 
The to the could be the special teams play of Tami Goodwin. She has returned three punts for touchdowns, in­cluding one against PW. 
Defensively, Farley is led by defensive ends Kerstan White and Connie Boyden. Both have been influential in keeping op­ponents to only 36 points on the season. 
PW won the league title with a 7-1 record, including winning its last seven. The only loss was a season-opening shutout at the hands of Farley, 22-0. 
PW supports a very strong running game. Led by fresh­man Heidi Hanson and senior Colleen Kretz, the PW offense has rolled to 136 points on the season. 

Stanford, 2-0, behind goals by Mike Meyer and Mark Hahn and the shutout performan1t!e of goalkeeper John Gisleson. The win advances them to the second round to face the winner of Flanner F.C. and the Hoobers, while Stanford falls into the second bracket and the brink of elimination. 
Also Wednesday, top-seeded Holy Cross had no trouble with eighth-seeded Elanner B, blanking them, 3-0. They now meet the winner of the Fisher­Morrissey game, while Flan­ner joins Stanford in the loser's bracket. 
Authors 


Thomas -1959 
C. Joseph 
Graduate and 

Richard H.Walwood -1960 Graduate 
will autograph their new book. 
$7.95 

Saturday, November 7th 
9:00 -11:00 a.m. 
2nd floor Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 17 
Men's and women's swim teams dive into season 
By ROSE PIETRZAK Sports Writer 
After two long months of training, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams take to the water for a challenging season. 
With a bigger program and a tougher schedule ahead, the Irish squads begin the 1987-88 season with the Notre Dame In­vitational Relays today at 4 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter. The relays are the first step­ping stone for both teams. 
The men's team attempts to capture the relay trophy after settling for heartbreaking second-place finishes for the past two years, falling to Wisconsin-Milwaukee in 1985 and powerhouse Illinois­Chicago in 1986. With a lineup that boasts 24 returning mem­bers, the men's team retained 18 monogram winners and the core of its stability. 
Senior co-captains Pat McManus, a native of Abington, Pa., and Ken Barker of Madera, Calif., will lead the Irish. 
"The extra depth throughout the classes -will make us a stronger team this year," says McManus. "The prognosis is good for the season. We lost some key seniors and we have a difficult schedule, but we'll just have to 
StudentTravel Network would like to invite you to celebrate the New Year London-style; partying down the Thames River in a glass boat with other student travelers. There'll be music, plenty of dancing and s?me­one to guide you through the s1ghts you'll be seeing as you sail along Lon­don's celebrated waterway. A buffet will be served; wine, beer and soft drinks are also free. All you have to do is purchase vour round-trip ticket to London from STN. Chicago fare 
389
fro@Jd1m STUDENT
· 

TRAVEL NETWORK 
CHICAGO (312) 525•922 COME JOIN THE FUN-With STNI 
rise to the challenge." 
Third-year Irish head coach Tim Welsh echoes his captain's comments. 
"We're a solid team. we've_ 

Tim Welsh 
got the talent and the ability, and if we want to have a good season, we'll have to apply that," Welsh says. 
Hoping to improve upon the 10-5 mark of last year, the men will be looking toward a reli­able freestyle squad. Included in the ranks is senior sprinter of competition and will leave a Jim Dowd. Dowd, a member of tremendous gap to be filled by two record-holding relay senior Jeff Grace. teams, will concentrate on 50-The Irish return four men in and 100-yard events, but will the diving events. Under diving lend his talents to all relay coach Leigh Anne Grabovez, races. three veteran divers, Ed 
John Koselka, a 50-yard Veome, Richard Zell and Nick record-holder with a 21.18 time Farmer, will help newcomer and relay-team regular, also Adam Hirschfield through the will lead the free swimmers. In ropes. addition, long-distance swim-Running amuck with new mers Bill Schmitz, a junior, rfaces, the women's team adds and sophomore Mark Lowney 14 newcomers to the 32­will return from injury and join member team. With the talents senior Rolan~ Hartzell . and of senior Amy Darlington, the sophomore Mike Messagha to women's team should irr.prove strengthen the attack. upon the 7-7 mark recorded last 
Hoping to overcome gradua-season. With Darlington tion and injury losses, the Irish dominating the middle and breaststr~ke and backstroke distance-freestyle events, the events wil~ have to struggle .to depth of the squad is im­keep up w1th opponents. Jumor measureable. Darlington owns Brian Vogel and senior Pat five individual records and is a Bradley will combine to give member of four record-holding the Irish respectability. relay teams. Junior Tracy 
Backstroke events will pose Johnson returns from abroad to similar difficulties for the defend her school record in the men's tea~. Leading .ba~k-50-yard free and will be a stroker Er1c Bohdan lS m-familiar sight in the sprint free eligible for the first semester events. 
One improved event for Irish 
will be the breaststroke.BAKER'S BIKE SHOP iNC. Usually a thin event, the Irish return veterans Betsy Baker, Monica Smith and Ruth Hanlon and a number of newcomers to
~iij:I~~1:1~1 
the event. "The freshmen are espe­cially important to our depth
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS .,BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES -SERVICE -PARTS-ACCESSORIES this year," say co-captains Barbara Bryne and Nancy
Winter Storage • • • ~~~wnn~o:J~fl~~~~1~ 
O'Brien. "We're very optimis­
Available ~~~i~~;~l~As"!!~~oAv 1oAM sJoPM 
tic with such a big freshman 
ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 
class and we know that they will make a great contribution 
277-8866 259-4862 
to the team." Freshmen will not only pack 
•••••••••••••••••••••••-. the breaststroke events, but 
Happy 20th Birthday, Sarah McCuen! 
Wishing you many more Italian sunsets! Love, Gretchen, Lisa, and Mary 



UNITED WAY DRIVE 


will add depth to the individual medley and butterfly events behind Darlington. Outstand­ing performances are expected from freshmen Amy Vogel and Kathleen McKinney in the the sprint free events. Record­holder senior Andrea Bonny, with 400.42 and 436.57 points on the one and three-meter boards, respectively, returns to the diving team to solidify the efforts of junior Kathi Ep­ping and sophomore Kay Rich­ter. 
FaIIing 
continued frof7!. Eage 24 
doing down there" look. And, 
occasionally, you get the look 
of pure satisfaction at a job 
well done. 
Of course, wanting to prove 
just who's in charge, you climb 
aboard and repeat the process 
-gallop, gallop, gallop, halt, 
"aaaaaaaaahhhhhhhh," thud. 
Finally, after as many tries as 
the noble beast is willing to en­
dure, he obligingly jumps the 
obstacle, that is if you haven't 
had to chase him over hill and 
dale after one of the may mis­
carriages. 
And what do you learn from 
this? Well, two things. One is 
that man, eventually, is the 
master of beasts, and the other 
is that some days it's better to 
go fishing . 
Game of the Week -The Irish soccer team closes out its season this weekend with a pair of games at Krause Stadium. Friday night at 7:30, Notre Dame faces Marquette and caps off the season Sunday af­ternoon at 1 against Ohio State. The Irish still are chasing a bid to the NCAA Tournament &o a good showing is essential. 
-

Friday, November 6, 1987 
page 18 

A SPECIAL CHRISTMAS GifT IDEA....••• EXCLUSIVELY PREPARED FOR ND AND SMC STUDENTS AND FACULTY. 
Alhambra-Home ofDistinctive In1ports is proud to present a special Christmas gift catalog of our hottest selling items with special distributor prices for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. We invite you to take advantage of this exclusive festive season offerll 
~~O~ct; PRODUCTS. 
Opium. GlorgO:anel. Dior. Joy. Special names for special moments. And now, for you, a special opportunity. An opportunity to own the purest form of your favorite fragrance at a fraction of traditional retail cost; only $22.50 a quarter ounce. 
PURE fRAGRANCE. NOT DILUTED PERfUME OR COLOGNE. 
Yes, these are 100% pure essential oils. In inc;reasing degrees of dilution, these essential! oils manifest perfumes, colognes, toilet waters and after-shave lotions. Even at maximum strength, the perfumes 
COMPARB THESE PRICES. 
sold at retail chain stores contain only 25 percent or 
REG. RETAIL PRICE
less of essential oil. The rest is diluting agents such 
*****************


as alcohol, which you pay for! Here's your chance to finally acquire that expensive fragrance that you've 
always wanted at a price that you can finally afford. 
ULTRA LONG LASTirKL_ 
Because of their superior purity and concenftation, 
the essence of our fragrances have superb lasting power. So only a few dabs are sufficient to add something extra to 
those special moments. You are euying at least four times 
more fragrance than those perfumes sold at retail stores, at 
a third or less of the cost! 
ATI'RACTIVE PACKAGING. 
$55.00 Chanel :#5 $60.00 Coco $70.00 Giorgio $65.00 
Joy $85.00 Opium $70.00 White Linen $50.00 
ABUNDANT SELECTION. 
Packaged in attractive quarter-ounce anti-leak bottles in plush velvet boxes, 
Your choice of 97 world-famous fragranr.:•o:."'l-­these fraqrances make excellent gifts for that special someone. Or go ahead. can you find yours? 
28. SAUVAQr: 43. II'ITRJQUr: 58. LAURr:N 73. PARIS B8. VALr:NTINO
f'RAORANCI! LIST 13. BII.IT 
14. CABOCHARD 29. r:NOLISH Lr:ATHr:R 44. JACCOMO I'OR Mr:l'l ~. MADAM ROCHAS 74. Plr:RRr: CARDIN 89. VAN CLr:r:r 
01. NWS NWS 15. CACHr:Rr:L 30.,f:I'IVOL 45. J. AJOSr: 60. MISS DIOR 75. PLAYBOY fOR Mr:N 90. Yr:TJVr:ROUr:RLAIN Ol.ANTHAr:US 16.CHANr:Ltt5 31. r:5Tf:lf: LAUDr:R 46. JASMII'I 61. MUSK f'LOWr:R 76. f'OISOI'I 91. WHITr: Lll'l~l'l 
03. ARAMIS I'OR Mr:N 17. CHANr:L 1119 32. fiDJI 47. JASMIN MUSK 62. MUSK OIL (LADY'S) 77. POLO WHIT~
92

33. fLORI\L SPJCr: 48. JHL BY r:sTr:r: LAUDr:R 63. MYSTr:R DE ROCHAS 78. PRIVATr: COLLf:CTION .SHOULDr:RS04. ARAMIS I'OR Mr:l'l (Hr:RBAL) 18. CHANr:L I'OR Mr:l'l 
34. I"RAA'tKII'ICr:I'IS~+MYRRH 49. JOVAN MUSK OIL 64. NINA RICCI 79. QUORUM
05. ARPr:Qr: 19. CHARLir: 93. WILD MUSK35. QIORQIO 50. JOVAN Sr:x APPr:AL 65. NORr:L 80. RJvr: QAUCHr:06. 80B MAKJr: 20. CHLOr: 94. WORTH36, QJvr:rtCHY ar:NTLr:MAN 51. JONTUr: 66. OBSf:SSION 81. ROYAL COPf:I'IHAQf:l'l07. AZZARO I'OR Mr:N 21. CII'IABAR 95. YOlTTH Dr:W37. QRr:Y r'LAI'Irtr:L 52. JUI'IQLr: OARDr:I'IIA 67. OMBRr: ROSr: 82. ROYAL Sf:CRr:TQ8. BABr: 22. CO CO 96. YSATIS38. QUCCI I'OR Mr:l'l 53. JOY 68. OPIUM 83. SHALIMAR09. 8A.L A vr:RSAILLr:s 23. CURRAOr: IN BLUr: 97. Y.S. LAURr:NT39. QLOfUA VANDr:RBILT M. K.L. 69. OSCAR POU LUI 84. S.S.
10. BI'.AUTifUL 24. DAVIDOff 40. HABIT ROUOr: 55. LADY LAURr:N 70. OSCAR Dr: LA Rr:('ITA 85. SUPf:R r:sTr:t11. BIL BLASS I'OR Mr:l'l 25. Dr:TCHr:MA LOIIO nPit 41. HALSTON 56. LAQr:Rflr:LD 71. PACO RA8A.NNr: rOR MEN 86. TABU12. 80UQHI'.ART 26. DIOR DIOR 42. HALSTON Z-14 57. LANCOMr: 87. TATIANA 
Supreme quality genuine sheepskin~ Imported from Scotland. Acquired from full-size lamb, each hide Is approximately 6 to 8 square feet In area size with rich, deep fur depth of 5 to 7 Inches. Avallable In white, bro~ brown-white, and black. SheepSkins of this quality retall for no less than $85.00 anywhere In the country. Ourspecial distributorprice: only $55.95. 
CRMTIVE IDEAS fOR PMhfl~ USES These sheepskins make cozy additions to themom~throom or fireplace. 
They also instill a luxurious elegance to bedspreads, car seats, weight benches, and Ioveseats. Or place them on a piano bench, organ or hope chest to protect 
your fine wood finish. It's natural leather lining permits a skid-free attachment to most smooth and rough surfaces. EASY MAIPeiftNANCC, These hides are easy to ckn ana are all machine-washable. 
HOW CAN Wft MAKE IH&Sfi nf{y~~ The reasons are simple. We are a wholesale bV fs nbutor, not a retail chain store. We do not spend millions on fancy TV or magazine advertising. And we pass the savings on to you. 
§ATISFACTION QUARANTI(t;D. 
All our products are of highest quality possible. We inspect every ttem before delivery for faults and defects. And we are convinced that you will be impressed and pleased with our products. However, if you are unsatisfied for any reason, we will refund the full purchase price. ­PROMIT SEJMCI<. All orders are hand-delivered usually within three days from the time they are received. This way, you can personally inspect our product before accepting and paying for it. No undesirable surprises by mail. 


ALHAMBRA HOMe Of' DISTINCTIVE IMPOKTS /Nf'ORMATION,_ CALL: 
TO ORDI!R OR f'OR FURTHI!R Checks•, money order, MCNisa accepted and payable on delivery. 
Please _add $2.00 handling fee for each order. Indiana residents 
'Where Distinctive Luxuries appeal to distinctive taste. 
add 5% sales taX. Thank you. 
P. 0. Box 15:31 South Bend, Indiana 466.34
(219) 6.»-5218 OR 

•Personal checka accepted onlv from students. faculty, staff, 
Member,
(219) 259-9296 

and employees of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
South Bend Chamber of Commerce Better Business Bureau of Michiana
t.\... ~"H¥PY" a._~ ..)..cH.py-a..6 
~-"Holid•:r• ~--·rJwolid•:r• ~· 
I L 
-~ ---------------------------------­
Friday, November 6, 1987 The Observer page 19 
------------------------~~~~~--------------------------------~=-­
Spartans stop Irish, 3-1 
By KATIE CRONIN Sports Writer 
The Irish field hockey team lost to Michigan State 3-1 Tues­day afternoon, but surprised the Spartans, ranked in the top 20, with strong second-half play. 
"They're the quickest team we've played," said Irish coach Jill Lindenfeld. "They caught us off guard and scored two goals in the first 11 minutes of play, but after that we calmed down. Our defense adjusted to their speed and we mounted our own offensive attacks. " 
Michigan State, ranked third in the Midwest Region, fired 17 shots on the Irish goal in the first half. The Spartans' ag­gressive Carey Greary scored goals at 2:07 and 11:14. Their third and final tally was scored by Colleen King on a penalty 
occer 
continued from page 24 
Rather than hang up their shoes and forget about soccer, both seniors have stayed with the team, and according to 

"""~~:"""':~~~~;=r.:::-r:::-::~ 
Student or G.A.'s will pay 
$$$$$ 

• 
stroke in the last 30 seconds of play. 
The Irish jumped into the game second half, taking 10 shots on goal after managing only four in the first half. Left wing Christine Gregory put the ball in the cage for Notre Dame at 11:23, and the Irish defense limited the Michigan State to only eight more shots on goal. Goalie M.J. Beetel defended an­other Spartan penalty shot and recorded a total of 17 saves. 
"We held them in the second half," said Lindenfeld. "Our defense -JoAnne Marshall, Patty Ahearne, and Caroline Berezny -played brilliantly. 
M.J. had an overall great game, and Christine Gregory and inside forward Amy Bun­dens had their best games of the season." 
"Michigan State expected to run all over us, and for art of 
Grace, the Irish wouldn't have had the same success without them. 
"Their leadership is really needed," says Grace. "Anytime you have seven or eight freshmen, there's a hell of a lot of inexperience. They need direction, and Timmy and Paul know what we want." 
Gluckow and Hartigan have played under Grace all four years that he has been the 
coach of the Irish. 
call John=t*=3419 3413 
"It's our job making the 
McQuik~ 
0/lube. 

NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY IT'S WORTH THE ORIVE TO McQUIK'SI 
ALL SERVICE INCLUDES: 
...-Check & F1ll TransmiSSIOn 
!l 

...-Check & F1ll Power Steenng • ...-Check & F1ll Brake FlUid ...-Check & F1ll Dlllerent1al ...-Check & Properly Inflate T1res ,...Check Battery Water Levels & F111 ..... ctean Wmdows OutSide ...-Vacuum Car InSide ...-Check & Adv1se Condition ol Atr F11ter ...-Check & F 111 WindShield washer Solvent 
10 MINUTE OIL CHANGE Change Otl -Up to 5 qts Quaker State 10W30 or 10W40 Otl New Quaker State Otl Ftlter•Lubricate Chassts 
IRONWOOD & EDISON I
$3 00 Off

• SOUtH BEND, IMI (Wilh this coupon! (219) 232·0208 I
I Our ular Price of $19.95 HIVELY • BENHAM AT 1 
r-------------------~ 
I PIERRE IIIOIIAM MALL I 
ELKHART, IN
I 12111 522·2344 II IRISlllL & CASSOPOLIS II ELKHART. IM I 
(211) 282·2301
L EXPIREs 11/7/87 NOT Gooo WITH ANY OTHER OFFeR. ~
---wEPRoMisE!____ 
FREE REALL.S FOR 3MONTHS/3,000 MILES If nonnal usage a your vehicle causes It to run low on any fluids between regular 3 monlh13,000 mile visits to McQuik's we will check and /ill it FREE! Just gel in line at any McOulk's Oilube location with this cerllticate ot mileage -we11 top oft the low (up to 1 qt ot oi per visil) fluids -at NO CHARGE! Limit 3 visits within 3 month/3,000 mile period. Free refills program does not include fuel or antl4reeze. 
MC OUIK'S TOPS THEM ALL! ~ 
CD COUPON CLASSICAL & JAZZ 
;:i CD COUPON 

$2.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS 

$4.00 OFF 
ALL DISCS PRICED $15.99 AND UP 
EXPIRES n-30·87 

EXPIRES 11-30·87 EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 
PRICED $16.99 
the game they did," said co­captain Beetel. "Then we got mad and played to make them remember us. We'd been in­timidated by their fast, physi­cal style, but our second-half attitude was different. We played confidently and aggres­sively." 
The Irish wind up their season this weekend at the Mid­west Regional Tournament in Louisville, Ky. 
Notre Dame is seeded sixth in the double-elimination tournament's field of eight teams. It will, however, miss the consistent defensive contri­butions of Berezny who won't be making the trip. Their first game is against third-ranked Eastern Kentucky Univeristy today at 1:30 p.m. 
"I'm happy to play them first " said Lindenfeld. 
frosh feel they are a part of the 
team," says Hartigan. "Coach 
is hard to get to know, so we 
just try to get the freshmen 
more comfortable with him." 
You can even see their influ­ence from the stands. Against Indiana, Hartigan and Gluckow got the team and the bench to stand and cheer much of the second half when things looked bleak for the Irish on the field. But the team responded and rallied for a 4-3 overtime 
in. 

-~n-:\* Knights ofthe Castle Men's Hairstyling 

YOU CHOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 2n-1s91 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS Ironwood & St. Road (behind Subway Sandwiches) 

Saint Louis U Diversity's Academic Year in Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: English, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU in Madrid is a member of AA/EOE 
Graduate Courses offered during Summer Session in July 
Apply NQl:Y.for Spring and Summer 1988 
More than 600 students in the Program 

Contact: Saint Louis University Raymond L. Sullivant, SJ. Study Abroad CoordJnator 
Saint Louis University in Madrid Admissions omce Calle de Ia Vina, 3 221 North Grand Blvd Madrid 28003 SPAIN St. Louis, MO 63103 
Tel: 233-2032/233-2812 ToO-free tel: 1-800-325·6666 
LP ITAPE COUPON 
$1.00 OFF 
ALL LP /TAPES 
EXPIRES 11·30-87 PRICED $6.99 UP EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS 

SEE WHY TRACKS IS THE AREA'S FINEST DISCOUNT 
RECORD STORE. . . OVER 30,000 CDS I LPS I TAPES!!! 
::.·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::.::::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:~,~~ 
~m MAXELL • • • II TEN PACK BLOW-OUT II • • • TOK l\l\ (XL 1190 11TH TAPE FREEl $19.99 SA90 WITH FREE CASE~~~~ t XLIIS90 11TH TAPE FREEl $23.99 SAX90 WITH FREE CASE l~l~ ~~~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~; 

TRACKS 
..... 

Sports Briefs 
continued from page 15 

Rosters are due November 11 for the Miami Project, an open flag football tournament to benefit the Marc Buonaconti Fund. The round robin tournament will be held November 20-22. Rosters for both the men's and women's divisions should include a minimum of 10 players and a maximum of 18. More details on the tournament appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
A weight training clinic for faculty!Staff sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics Wednesday, November 11, at 
12:10 p.m. The clinic is offered in conjunction with the opening of the JACC weight room to general student and faculty!Staff use during scheduled hours. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will be offered by NVA Monday, November 9 at 6 p.m. at the NVA office in the JACC. Wear shorts and short sleeves. The testing is free of charge and on a first-come-first­
serve basis. -The Observer 
But as the success continued, the team attitude among the players began to wane, and over October break the team's play on the field started to suf­fer. 
"We went through a downsw­ing on the road trip out west," says Hartigan. "We had a big team meeting before the UCLA match, and Paul got up and noted that the things conflict­ing on the team were so minor compared to what we do the rest of the season. He's really good at seeing the whole situa­tion and coming up with a so­lution which will definitely work." 

Although Notre Dame lost both matches at Los Angeles, the team held its own against those ranked teams and had a chance to win both games. 
"Everything is coming to­gether," says Hartigan. "As freshmen we came in as part of a building program with Coach. And the way we've im­proved to where we are now ­it's sweet." 
Not only has the team's suc­cess made things a little bit easier for the two seniors, but the other players say the team wouldn't be the same without Hartigan and Gluckow. 
"They made soccer fun," says Lowney, who also happens to be Gluckow's (and some­times Hartigan's) roommate off campus. "They captured a lot of the team spirit. They were able to combine responsi­bility with a good time." 
They may not have been able to contribute on the field, but you get a feeling that in the fu­ture, the players will be talking about those days when Har­tigan and Gluckow were on the team. 
IRISH ITEMS -In the regional battle for the NCAA bid, Akron (11-5-3) blasted Wooster 4-1 Wednesday night and will face Boston U. (7-6-4) and William and Mary (14-2-2) in a tourna­ment at South Carolina this weekend. Evansville (14-7-0) crushed Dayton 4-1 Wednesday night and will play in the MCC Tournament this weekend. St. Louis is the top seed in that tournament. 

page 20 

IH men's semifinals on tap for Sunday 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The past means nothing. The game means everything. And if you lose, there is no 
tomorrow. 
Four men's Interhall football teams will face those realities on Sunday, as the playoffs move into the semifinal round. Dillon will square off against Pangborn in the first game at 1 p.m. at Stepan, while Stan­ford will meet Fisher in the second game at 2:30. 
The two winning teams will take to the grass of Notre Dame Stadium a week from Sunday to determine the champion. 
The most interesting game on paper has to be the Dillon­Pangborn matchup. Dillon, from the Large Dorm Division, has been extremely strong all season, losing only once. That loss (to Flanner in the last game of the regular season) was avenged last week, as the Big Red downed Flanner 3-0 in the opening round of the playoffs. 
Freshman Tim Murphy has been Dillon's main weapon throughout the :~ea:~on. Hi:~ strong running and receiving from the tailback slot have helped the Big Red to a 58-14 scoring edge in just six games. Dillon has another weapon ­one not shared by many teams in the foot of placekicker Mike Braemer. Braemer's 32-yard field goal was the difference in the Flanner game, and he will 
be  counted  on  for  another  
strong  game  against  
Pangborn.  

Hailing from the Small Dorm Division, Pangborn seemingly is at a disadvantage entering the game. In fact, however, the Violence is not much smaller than Dillon (if at all), and they will be counting on their quick­ness against the Big Red. 
"We didn't get a chance to scout them," said Dillon coach Jeff Morgan of his opponent, "but I know they're quick, and they have a multi-talented of­fense. A small, quick guy can do a lot of damage to a big, slow guy. We have to use our strength, not just our size." 
Pangborn's strength is its running attack, and the main reason for that, according to 



SONDAY SPECIALS 
at Theodore's 
Every Sunday, from 12-6, Theodore's has a different all-you-can-eat special. 
This Sunday: Build Your Ow1n Subs 
$2.00 
coach Dan Sherman, is the of­fensive line. Senior tackle Joe Rossi and tight end Rob Kos­sler (Sherman says Kossler is one of the squad's best play,ers) have anchored the line. 
"We haven't been in the playoffs in a long time," said Sherman, "and that just makes us ... hungry. We've had some 
great practices.  If  we don't  
make  mistakes,  I  like  our  
chances."  

Many people are handing vic­tory to Stanford in the second game -possibly prematurely. 
While Stanford has lived up to its preseason, powerhouse billing, Fisher has proven that it should not be taken lightly. 
Before the playoffs began, Stanford coach Al Martin named Alumni as his toughest opponent to date (Alumni was the only team to score against Stanford), and Fisher roan­handled the Dogs in last week's opening round. 
Fisher's most potent weapon is the Greg Gibbons-to-Pat Murphy scoring connection. Quarterback Gibbons's fre­quent passes to freshman flanker Murphy have propelled the Green Wave to a 56-18 season scoring edge. 
Stanford has been everyone's frontrunner from day one. 
Led by senior player-coach Al Martin at quarterback and a talented, experienced offen­sive line, Stanford has rumbled through four games, scoring 102 points and allowing just six. 
Stanford uses both the pass and the run to wear down op­ponents, and the line is equally effective at both pass-bloc:king and at creating holes. Tailback Dan Diebel and flanker John Sheehan have been the main scoring threats. 
The Green Wave is in an ,envi­able position. If they win, they will be "giant killers." If they lose, they can take consolation in the fact that Stanford is a huge favorite. 
"Everyone has the utmost respect for Stanford," said Fis­her coach Chris Carlson. "Ex­perience and size-wise, they're definitely the superior team. We're glad to have a chance to show them what we can do." 
The Observer 

To enjoy the best of Italy, you need to do a little reading. Very little. Just open our menu. 
Assisting you in your tour of Italy is our able, friendly staff. They'll make you feel right at home. 
So come in to The Olive Garden 
BEST OF ITALY GROWS IN ThE GARDEN 
• 6410 Grape Road, Mishawaka 
and pick up a menu. Then sit back and watch the best of Italy unfold. 
-tk 

a!f!!~~. 
Friday, November 6, 1987 
Dawson named AP Player of the Year 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Andre Dawson was the best player in major league baseball this year, in the opinion of sports writers and broadcasters who were asked to decide the honor. 
Dawson, who skyrocketed to the top of the batting charts after thrusting himself on the Chicago Cubs last spring, was named The Associated Press Player of the Year Thursday. 
This was the first time the AP has awarded Player of the Year honors. 
Correction 

A cutline in yesterday's edition of The Observer misidentified Randy Morris. The person in the photo was Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt. 
~~-----~-~~------------~----------------------­
Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 21 
Loftus Center to house flag football tournament 

liGHTUPTHI 
12 oz. bottles 
• MI~H~IQB 
"t~ 
. n 

EL& .
MlcHA 
56-5600 

coNCEPTS MISHAWAKA 2 
HAIR 236 WEDISO~ of Cal11iJliSI 291-1001 r2',. MriCS f:aS NO SO BEND 2041 E IRELA 
team then solicit pledges for sports complex. Sally Deren­each point their team scores goski, Assistant Director of during the weekend tourney. Non-Varsity Athletics, said she 
The deadline for rosters is has high hopes for the tourna­Wednesday, Nov. 11. ment. 
Every participant receives a "I'm pretty excited about T-shirt, and the team that col­it," she said. "I think it's an lects the most money (not outstanding cause, and it has points) wins Sony Watchmans. to be because we don't sponsor 
The amount raised by the top many fund-raising activities. It team at Notre Dame will then should be a fun weekend for the be compared to the top students, too. amounts raised at other cam­"And I think it comes at a puses participating in the prime time because it also will tournament. The team that give the students a chance to raises the most money nation­play in the Loftus Center. They wide will receive an all­can find out what it's all about expenses paid trip to the and hopefully they will be able USF&G Sugar Bowl. to utilize the opportunities that 
As an added feature, all it offers to the student body. games will be played at the new "People think that the Loftus 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
WtpJ!Ud
FLORAL co. 
INC. 
GIFTS IMPORTED 
& 
DOMESTIC 

"'ffewN rued Gi6tb ~ aft ~~~ 
SERVING NOTRE. DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SO. BEND & MISHAWAKA OVER 60 YEARS 
~-~' 
co•co" W" _, 

M232-3354 
Free Delivery to ND&SMC! ~ 
COME IN AND BROWSE ~ Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 


WEEKEND SPECIALS 
DON'T JUST BEAT BOSTON COLLEGE EAT BOSTON SCHROD -Complete Meal -Mesquite Broiled or Lightly Hand Breaded & Fried $7.50 
FEELING SAUCEY? TRY A SHRIMP TRAY! Large Peel & Eat Shrimp with sauce ~ lb. tray ~ 5.95 2 lb. tray 27.95 -COMPLETE­large Peeled & Develned Shrimp 1 lb. tray 19.95 2 lb. 36.95 
THE FINEST FRESHEST SEAFOOD 
yes-we have meat 212 w. Edi$oa,l4iabawab 2.5.~'700 
SmUg Uld {!, Ditltur-Dilll Ill•c.r,.otll 
Moo.-Thur.ll AM-'1:00PM Fri. tSar. 11 AN-10:00 PM 
By RICK RIETBROCK Assistant Sports Editor 
A new tournament played in a new facility may send a team of Notre Dame students to a New Year's Day bowl game. 
An open flag football tourna­ment will be held in two weeks, from November 20-22, in the new Loftus All-Sports Center. 
The USF&G Sugar Bowl Na­tional Flag Football Drive is part of the Miami Project, the Marc Buonaconti Fund to find a cure for paralysis. Buonaconti is the son of former Notre Dame and Miami Dol­phin football player Nick Buonaconti. He played football for The Citadel and he was paralyzed in 1985 while making a tackle. 
The round-robin tournament has both men's and women's divisions. Team rosters should include between 10 and 18 players. The players on each Center and the Eck Pavillion are just for varsity use, and that's just not true," she con­tinued. "We hope this weekend will, in addition to the obvious fund-raising benefits, open the 
eyes  of  the  students  to  the  
availability  of  the  new  
facilities."  

Games will be scheduled at half-hour intervals throughout the weekend, with a gap pro­vided for students to watch the Penn State-Notre Dame foot­ball game on Saturday, Nov. 21. 
There is a $25 entry fee per team. The fee will be returned to the team at check-in and it can then be used as part of the team collection. 
Belles take seventh spot in Invite 
By KATHY JENSEN Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team won two of five matches to finish seventh this weekend at its home invitational, finish­ing the regular season with a record of 16-10. 
The tournament consisted of eight teams, divided into two four-team pools. The first and second place team in each pool advanced to the winner's bracket to determine the first­through-fourth place finishers, while the third and fourth place teams in each pool fell to the loser's bracket to determine the fifth-through-eighth places. 
Saint Mary's started out with a tough loss to Xavier, 9-15, 11­
15. The Belles were led by team captains Margaret Feldman and Patti Knoebel, both Juniors. Feldman had five kills and Knoebel was 10-of-10 in ser­vice attempts with one ace. 
In the second game against Defiance College, the Belles were once again closely defeated, 14-6, 13-5. The team served well, as freshman Col­leen Feldman was 8-of-8 in at­tempts and sophomore Tammy Suth was 10-of-10. 
The Belles regained their strength in the third match as they pounded St. Thomas More, 15-4, 15-2. Knoebel again led the team with four kills, and served 11-of-12 with four aces . This win advanced them to the semi-final round, and seeded Saint Mary's third in the pool play. 
After a close 15-8 victory in the first game of the semi­finals, the Belles proceeded to lose the next two games and ultimately the match to Rosary College, 13-15, 11-15. Feldman led the team with 14 kills, and also served 12-of-13 with three aces. Kim Rajski and Suth con­tributed six kills each. 
In the finals, Saint Mary's once again defeated St. Thomas More by scores of 15-2, 15-7, giving the Belles seventh in the tournament. Freshman Melissa Phillips was 7-of-7 in service attempts with one ace, while Michelle Jones had four kills. 
Michigan-Dearborn took first in the invitational and Franklin College took second. Knoebel was selected to the all­tournament team, by record­ing 15 kills and displaying strong consistent serving. 
"It was a honor to be chosen from all the fantastic players at the tournament," KnOE:bel said. 
Friday, November 6, 1987
page 22 The Observer 
Irish wrestlers hope to avoid repeat performance 
By STEVE MEGARGEE was the third person in state in our three-mile run, he ran omore George Logsdon. Mter three wrestlers, plus 118-pound Sports Writer history to take three state titles under 21 minutes," said withdrawing from Notre Dame sophomore Andy Radenbaugh in California. He also was McCann. "He needs a lot of ex­to serve two years in the Army, and 142-pound junior Pat Boyd, Lightning never strikes twice named one of the top 10 fresh­perience, but we look at him as he is returning to the Irish will form the nucleus of this in the same place. men in the nation by Amateur a tremendous athlete. We had wrestling team this year. year's team. Radenbaugh and Or at least that's what Notre Wrestling News. a lot of good heavyweights "He needs experience," said Boyd both received injuries Dame wrestling coach Fran The 167-pound Tomazic, who visit, and we felt he was felt he McCann. "He's physical, about that kept them from qualifying McCann hopes. won two state crowns, will miss was the best for our future." 6-2, he's solid and legitimate, for the NCAA's at full strength 
Mter a disastrous 1-11 cam­this weekend's action with an but he's got to get more mat last year. paign last year that saw only injury. 
time. He's really going to help "We have great leadership in two starting wrestlers survive "It's one of the better fresh­us." Ron Wisniewski and Jerry the year without suffering an man classes around. I'm really Sophomore Mike Sheets will Durso as captains," said the injury, McCann hopes the pleased with their progress," wrestle at 167 pounds this third-year head coach. "It's the health and experience of this McCann said. "They're weekend. At 126 pounds, with first time we've had some up­year's squad, plus a talented showing really good signs. last year's starter Dave Carlin perclassmen, and that's reallyfreshman class, will put the They're all good personalities, not wanting to compete in that helped the freshmen. The Irish back on track. Notre bright and very dedicated." weight class, two walk-ons -freshmen respect what those Dame opens the season on Sat­Jeff Massey could end up junior Ed Arellano and sopho­guys have done in the past.urday in the eight-team Mic­being the most important find more Dave Smith -are compet­"When we had so many in­higan State Invitational. for the Irish. At 240 pounds, the ing for the job. juries last year, it put so much 
"I'd like to think last year two-time Alabama state cham­Notre Dame returns its three pressure on them. They were was a fluke," said McCann. pion will be Notre Dame's first NCAA qualifiers from last thrown into a tough situation, "You're going to get injuries, full-time heavyweight since year, junior 134-pound co­we kept relying on sophomores.but not to the extent we had Bob Golic earned all-America captain Jerry Durso, senior co­They're much more relaxed, them. We had a kid break a leg, honors in both wrestling and captain Ron Wisniewski, who stronger and more confident
Fran McCann
and that's unheard of in wres­football in the late 1970's. may wrestle this weekend at this year. We have a good blend tling. You're going to get knee "He's just a tremendous ath-The most interesting new-142 pounds and junior 167-of upperclassmen and fresh­problems and shoulder prob­Jete, he benches 425 pounds and comer could be 190-pound soph-pound Chris Geneser. These men." lems, but not broken bones. 
*********************************** 
"I really think we can be a Top-10 or Top-20 school. It's : J.P.'S PIZZA ~te-0~Q<i~<otfi, : 
ORIENTATION!! 
going to take a lot of work, and 
: FREE DELIVERY ''&&& C>6" o, : 
for students interested in the
we'll have to rely on some ""-(9 • (9t'i0' * 
~ .8'<?
talented freshmen," 
Hesburgh Program
The Irish feature four fresh­* Ave. Delivery Time 25-30 min. ·6'o . * : men, three of whom will com­
In Public Service 
pete this weekend. Todd * * 
Layton, at 150 pounds, won four : 2-14" PIZZAS; 3 ITEMS & FREE EXTRA ! 
Monday state championships from his : CHEESE ONLY $12.00 : 
November 9, 1987 
hometown of Independence, 
6:30-7:30P.M. 
Kan., and the first-team all­*: 1-16" PIZZA; 5 ITEMS & FREE HALF :* 
104 O'Shaughnessy
American sported a 124-2-1 
* LOAF OF CHEESY GARLIC BREAD * 
high-school record. 
Research Seminars Graduate Opportunities
McCann's two California : ONLY $13.00 : 
Courses Internships
recruits, Mark Gerardi and * Hours: * Tom Tomazic, combined for : Mon-Thurs 11-11 * 
(Students who attended the session on 10-7-87, five state championsips in high * Fri-Sat 11am-1am . : 
need not attend this session.)
school. Competing at 158 : sun 3-1o 1511 Portage 234-4151 ,.. pounds for the Irish, Gerardi 
One Hundred Years of Notre Dame Football 
by Gene Schoor 
Introduction by Ara Parseghian Foreward by Johnny Lujack 
150 Photos Throughout 
Ultimate Tribute to America's Ultimate College Football Powerhouse 
Now Available 
$24.95 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 2nd Floor Book Dept. 
Hours-Sat. Nov. 7th 8 to 5 

Friday, November 6, 1987 
The Observer page 23 
Campus 
Friday 8 p.m.: Mass of Thanksgiving for all Library Benefactors, all members of the Notre Dame Community welcome, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 4 p.m.: Women's swimming relays: Notre Dame, St. Mary's College, North Central, University of Illinois-Chicago, Valparaiso, Butler, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 4 p.m.: Men's swimming relays: Notre Dame, Valparaiso, Butler, University of Illinois-Chicago, Ohio State, North Central, Wayne State, Wabash, Rolfs Aquatic Center. · · 4 p.m.: Department of Chemistry Reilly Lecture "A Cocktail of New Reagents for Organic Synthesis," by Prof. Leon Ghosez, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 4:30p.m.: Kenna Lectures in Mathematics, Lecture III, "Products, Projection Resolutions, and Exponents," by Prof. Jon Carlson, second floor of the CCMB. 7:30p.m. & 9:45p.m.: ND Communication and Theatre Film "The Color of Money," directed by Martin Scorsese, Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Marquette, Cartier Field. 8 p.m.: Whitesnake concert, all seats $15, JACC. 
8:15 p.m.: Music Department Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert, tickets required, call 239-6352, Washington Hall. Saturday 
9 a.m. -10 a.m.: First Saturday Hour of Adoration, Sacred Heart Crypt. 
9:30 a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting, sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns, multi-purpose room, Center for Social Concerns. · 
12 p.m.: Football ND vs. Boston College. 
7:30 p.m.: Volleyball NDW vs. Louisville, JACC. 
Sunday 
1 p.m.: Soccer ND vs. Ohio State, Cartier Field. 
2 p.m.: Mass with members of Emaus, a community with the mentally hand­
icapped, Holy Cross Seminary, following the Mass there will be a potluck meal for all. 5 p.m.: Tri-Military Mass, Rev. William Campbell, C.S.C. presiding, Sacred Heart Church. 7 p.m.: ND-SMC Right to Life general meeting for all members, LaFortune 
Montgomery room. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Meatball Hero 
Roasted Pork Loin 
Batter Fried Perch 
Fettucini Alfredo 

Comics 
Bloom County 
I GOT A X&N€ WfTH 
U'L OLLIE FVHT 'ERE... 

Ofr/.5 l flffl SOMt:IJOPY 
BlOOD'( WEll EXC fTED 

1
RCMM18€R 10 ftfR6 HIS 
'f;(JIIT A NEW CAREER. 

X~ RCf'l.IIUMeNT !.# 
SO lET.) 6ET OOWNIO 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Fish Supreme 
Beef Tacos 
Cheese and Mushroom Omelets 
Deli Bar 
ffNC.. HER£'$ THE SUN€: ''S~Ve fS ON ~ ft.OOf?.. A 
JelllOI./5 &ff?t.fKfeNf? ftl/5 JIIST 
CIIT HIS t.ebS Off WITH II 
tlt-ID\\'1\G ONE, IT TO\.JG\ts 
txl'tlN! DEBRIS IS 1'4RC1N\Il tOR MilES IN "'--t. 9\':;\l\NG EY.\\.OSIClN Or R\lS\\1~ f>..IQ! 
I 

Berke Breathed 

::.1lf€N OPr/5 fl/fltK5 IN ANfl SIJYS 50M€1HfN& WfSTFIJU.Y POIGNANT. " 
Bill Watterson 
W\.lrn 1\Q£ '(}\J GOING TO CltA\'11 \JI' 'ffi\S ~?! 
If l00'10 LIKE A... 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Breaches 5 Uneven 
10 Posed 13 Hibernia 14 Slits 15 Bitter herb 17 Sevareld or 
Blore 18 Corroded 19 Films' 
Andrews 20 Locksmith's 
blurb? 23 Cigar end 24 Check ore 25 Michelangelo 
work 28 Wary 31 Skin problem 32 Hope for 34 Omega's pal 37 Printing firm's 
blurb?  
40  Navy man:  
abbr.  
41  Most pleasing  

42 Anima 43 Hindu writings 44 Valley ­45 Fall flower 48 Piquant 50 Diet food 
blurb? 55 Periods 56 Tows 57 Red wine 60 Kind of 
devil 61 Coincide 62 Jacob's twin 63 Linden or 
March 64 Kodlaks 65 Mailed 
DOWN 1 -whiz! 2 Tune 3 Bluenose 4 Hid 5 Happening 6 Eng. novelist 7 Aware of 8 Phase 9 Ceorl 
10 Cruel one 

© 1987 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
11 Ladd and 
Paton 12 Bombay cart 16 Lenient 21 -glance 22 Nostrils 25 Youthful 
attendant 26 Sacred Image 27 Slaughter 28 After In Aries 29 Fibs 30 Once, once 32 Included with 33 Humane org. 34 Scanty 35 Comfy 36 Man or Wight 38 Sluggish 


39 Certain  atoms  
43 Liner  
44 To and  - 
45 Lost In  48 US president  53 Scent  
wonder  49 Burros  54 VIctory margin  
46 Miles  or  51  Moby Dick's  58 Hurried  
Vaughan  pursuer  59 Pharaoh for  
47 Coronet  52 Carry  on  short  
Far Side  Gary Larson  



Sports
page 24 Friday, November 6, 1987 
so·ccer ends season with pair at Krause 
By PETE GEGEN Preseason knee injuries have Sports Writer kept keeper Tim Hartigan and midfielder Paul Gluckow on 
With the lingering possibility the bench for most olf the of an NCAA tournament bid, season. Both resumed practic­the 15-3-1 Irish soccer team ing in mid-October, but theyfaces must-win situations in its are still rusty from the time final two regular-season spent away from the ball. matches. "It's really frustrating not 
Notre Dame hosts Marquette being able to do the things that tonight in a 7: 30 contest, then I could before the injury,'' said finishes with Ohio State Sunday Gluckow. afternoon at 1. Gluckow and Lowney are the 
Both the Warriors (8-10-1) only two players on the roster
" and the Buckeyes (11-7-2) have who have monogrammed in all fallen out of the Great Lakes three previous seasons. Region Top 10 recently, but Gluckow is a rugged player, Irish head coach Dennis Grace hard to move off the ball, and is concerned after Wednesday according to the keeper Har­night's performance against tigan has the hardest shot on Valparaiso. the team. He was playing well at mid­"If we play like that against field in the preseason before he Marquette, we'll get our butts suffered the injury in a scrim­kicked," said Grace. "We just mage with a local team. didn't play well. I think we Hartigan was pushing Danny were looking forward to Mar­Lyons before suffering his knee quette a little too much." injury in practice. He tried to Much like the Michigan State return for the first game of the game earlier this season, the season against Loyola, but his match with the Warriors will knee gave out in the pregame be a grudge match from last warm-ups. Now he is working season's hackfest which out at both midfield and the resulted in a 2-1 loss for the keeper position, and he saw Irish. limited action against DePaul "I have confidence that the and UCLA. guys will rise to the occasion," 
said Grace. But in that month-and-a-half These games also mark the long period between the injur­
final two home matches for ies and their return to action, three seniors. While senior cap­the team played 14 games. tain Steve Lowney has started "The hardest thing," says 
every game for the Irish at Hartigan, "was to get up for either sweeper or wingback, every game knowing you're not the other two players have seen playing. I feel outside the team 
hardly any action, but are two in that respect." 
forces behind Notre Dame's 

success this season. see SOCCER, page 19 

Dame seniors who play In their final home soccer games this weekend. Paul Gluckow and Tim Har-
ND volleyball crushes Dayton 
Special to The Observer  Lambert's squad to a record. The Irish are  22-8 3-0  Junior Mary Kay Waller re­corded four service aces and  
The Notre Dame volleyball team, still in the hunt for an NCAA tournament bid, crushed Dayton by scores of 15­3, 15-13 and 15-5 in Ohio Thursday night. The victory boosts Coach Art  against North Star Conference foes this season. Junior middle blocker Maureen Shea led Notre Dame with 13 kills, while junior out­side hitter Zanette Bennett added nine.  eight blocks in the contest, while Amy White had five blocks and Kathy Morin had seven digs. The next action for the Irish is Saturday at 7:30p.m., in the Joyce ACC, against Louisville.  

Sometimes, it's better to go fishing 
There is perhaps no greater magazine than Sports Illustrated. On this campus, it's got to be more read than any other publication with the possible excep­tion of the Bible. 
Sports Illustrated's writing is of the highest quality in the country. The photography is also gen­erally excellent, and not just the Swimsuit Issue. When it's February in South Bend, that issue is definitely more inspirational than the Bible. 
But some of the more interesting articles in each issue are the essays which usually are found in the very beginning or toward the end. These essays are usually concerned with more esoteric topics. Two weeks ago one especially caught my eye as I was whiling away the hours of driving from New Hampshire to South Bend. 
This article was about one woman's foxhunting experiences at the Farmington Hunt Club, outside of Charlottesville, Va. My screams of recognition only served to cause the driver to swerve into the next lane and grumpily wake up everyone else. 
I spent a great deal of time at a riding stable a mile down the road from Farmington called The Barracks. It got it's name from the fact that it occupied land that Hessian troops used as a campsite during the Revolutionary War. Some­times I thought it was because of the psychotic animals housed within. 

Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 
In either case, it was here that I learned a lot about horses and life. 
Riding is a different kind of sport. At first it's easy to think the horse does all the work, but most of them I've known would rather go for a roll in the grass and chew hay all day long than gallop about and hop fences. The trick is to make them do it anyway. 
Of course, sometimes they don't. 
There is nothing that mixes the thrill o(skydiving, the terror of falling from a tree and the embarrass­ment of being caught with your pants down as being thrown from horse. You can't know it until you come galloping at a fence and suddenly see horse, fence and ground whiz beneath you. This intriguing panorama comes to an unfortunate end with the whump of your body falling roughly to earth. 
As you pick yourself up to the stifled laughs of friends and the inevitable "are you all right," your horse (at least mine did) gives you one of three looks. The first is that of an innocent. Not the "who me" look, but a blank, benign stare. The second is a look of vague disgust, a "what the hell are you 
see FALLING, page 17 
~-----------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
i ~ Read what Notre Dame reads I 
I  I  
:  .  Yes, you can get the campus news and sports coverage that students  :  
I :  get every day. Subscribe to The Observer, the independent student newspaper serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community.  1 1  
I I1  Name  Please  enclose  $35  for  the  send to: The Observer  II I  
I  Address  remainder of the school year  P.O. Box a  I  
I1  ... -'-·'  City  State  Zip  Notre Dame, IN 46556  I I  

~----~--~----------~---------------------------------------------1 




